ANNUAL REPORT 2004
As of or for the year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share,ratio and headcount data)
20042003Reported basis(a)Total net revenue $43,097$33,384Net income4,4666,719Net income per share:Basic1.593.32Diluted1.553.24Return on common equity6%16%Headcount160,96896,367Pro forma combined-operating basis
Total net revenue$57,280$55,697Earnings10,2899,330Diluted earnings per share2.852.61Return on common equity10%9%(a) Results are presented in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States 
of America.2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage

JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Financial highlightsThe financial information provided on pages 1-15 is presented on a pro forma combined-
operating basis.The unaudited pro forma combined historical results represent how the financial

information of JPMorgan Chase & Co.and Bank One Corporation may have appeared on a 

combined basis had the two companies been merged as of the earliest date indicated.Additional

information,including reconciliation of the pro forma numbers to GAAP,can be found on 

Form 8-K/A furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 19,2005.For a
description of operating basis,including management's reasons for its use of such measures,see

page 25 of this Annual Report.
Dear fellow shareholder,
On January 
, , we shared with you our plan to unite Bank One 
and JPMorgan
Chase with the goal of creating the best Þnancial services 
company in the world. Throughout the year, we have worked hard to 

execute one of the largest mergers in Þnancial services history. As expected,

the process has been challenging and rewarding. On a 
pro forma combined
basis for the full year, net operating income was $
.billion with a %return on equity (ROE
) or a % ROE
less goodwill. While these results 
are not yet what we want them to be, we believe the progress we have made

during the past year will ultimately be reßected in our performance. 
In this, our Þrst letter to you as a combined company, we will review our 
mergermilestones, our business performance and our priorities going forward.
After reading this letter, we hope you will believe, as we do, that we are doing

all of the right things to win in the long run. Today, we are more conÞdent

than ever in our ability to build a great company. 
Right:Bill HarrisonChairman and 
Chief Executive OfÞcerLeft:Jamie DimonPresident and 
Chief Operating OfÞcer
2I.MERGER MILESTONES
We have made substantial progress in merging our businesses. Since combining the holding companies
on July 
, , we have:
¥Achieved merger-related cost saves of $
million and decreased headcount by 
,, or %,thereby staying on target to achieve a total expense reduction of $
billion by 
. ¥Merged the lead banks, broker/dealers and credit card banks. 
¥Made all the key technology decisions, including the selection of our national deposit platform,general ledger, customer identiÞcation system and credit card processing system.
¥Created a disciplined operating structure consisting of common reporting, risk management,
talent management, monthly business reviews and performance-based compensation.
¥IdentiÞed our top ,leaders and brought them together with our senior management team
to learn about the new ÞrmÕs potential and plan for its future. 
II.REVIEW OF 
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE
Most of our businesses performed adequately in 
. However, the full advantages that will come
from an increased number of distribution channels, coordinated branding and marketing efforts, and

the efÞciencies of scale are yet to be realized. For our customers, the added value of broader, more

complete and higher-quality products and services will be substantial.
Below is a brief review by line of business. For more detail, please refer to managementÕs discussion
and analysis later in this report. To make meaningful comparisons in this letter, we will be discussing

our results on a 
pro forma combined
basis.The Investment Bank
reported net operating earnings of $
.billion with an ROE
of %. A signiÞ-cant highlight for the year was the performance of our underwriting and advisory businesses.

Already the leader in many league categories, including syndicated loans and interest rate and credit

derivatives, we moved from 
th place to th in initial public offerings and ranked nd in globalannounced M&A, having advised on seven of the 
largest global M&Adeals. Our Þxed income
business, however, experienced a 
% drop in revenues. Overall, we should have done considerably
better in an economic cycle that produced healthier credit results than anticipated. Over time, we

are aiming for a 
% ROE
through economic cycles. That means striving for a 
% return in the
good times and, we hope, no less than a 
% return in the bad. In 
, we will seek to maintain
our global leadership positions by investing in infrastructure and business growth. 
Retail Financial Services
reported operating earnings of $
.billion with an ROE
of %. These earnings reßect a 
% increase in consumer and small business banking that helped offset weak 
performance in home Þnance. In home Þnance, we were challenged by an industry downturn in 
mortgageoriginations driven 
largely by a dramatic drop-off of reÞnancing activity due to rising 
interest rates. Now that the era of historically low interest rates appears to be over, we are focused 

on running this business far more efÞciently. Goals for 
include transitioning the Bank One
branded business to the Chase brand, investing in our distribution network and creating a culture

focused on productivity and sales. 
Card Servicesreported operating earnings of $
.billion and an ROE
of %. Card Services made 
outstanding progress toward meeting its merger targets, reducing headcount by 
,, or %, and is on track to meet its target of $million in expense saves. In addition to completing the conversion 
of the heritage Chase card portfolio to our new processing platform in 
, our drive toward market 
leadership will come from organic growth, economies of scale, superior customer service and an

increased focus on innovation. 
3Commercial Banking
reported operating earnings of $
million and an ROE
of %. The merger
between Bank One and JPMorgan Chase presents a tremendous opportunity for us to meet the

growing treasury, asset and wealth management, and investment banking needs of our more than

,middle market, corporate banking and real estate clients. In 
, we will take signiÞcant
steps toward realizing that opportunity.
Asset &Wealth Management
reported operating earnings of $
million and an ROE
of %.Improved equity markets and an emphasis on operating efÞciencies helped us grow 
ROE
from 
% in. In 
, we will focus on improving investment performance and add new bankers and ofÞcers
to gather additional assets and grow our base of ultra high net worth and high net worth clients. 
Treasury 
&Securities Services
reported operating earnings of $
million and an ROE
of %. These earnings understate the businessÕ importance, however, because much of our treasury services

revenue is included in other business segment results. In 
, Treasury & Securities Services delivered
double-digit revenue growth while also completing the Þrst phase of integrating international 

operations in countries. In 
, our goal will be to merge technology systems and leverage the
broader set of product capabilities achieved through the merger. 
III.OUR PRIORITIES
DEVELOPANDMAINTAINSTRONGFINANCIALDISCIPLINE
.Financial discipline is the bedrock
upon which great companies are built. Great companies prevail through both good and bad economic

times and consistently deliver solid performance relative to competitors. Our goal is to become one

of those companies. Financial discipline requires:   
Superior Þnancial reporting and management information systems.
In 
, we created a new internal
and external Þnancial reporting architecture with high-quality and transparent accounting policies

that cover capital allocation, revenue sharing, expense allocation and funds-transfer pricing. We then

worked with our line of business leaders and their respective chief Þnancial ofÞcers to develop 

comprehensive Þnancial and operating metrics to use in building their businesses. Today, thousands

of proÞt-and-loss statements Ð including one for each of our 
,branches, for example Ð help usallocate capital appropriately and drive performance. We strive to use one set of numbers inside and

outside the company to bring consistency and clarity to how we view and measure performance.

While we are satisÞed with the progress we have made to date, the real beneÞt will come over time

as our management teams increasingly use these tools.
A fortress balance sheet.
A fortress balance sheet requires a thorough understanding and management
of our assets and liabilities; the use of conservative, appropriate accounting; tight Þnancial controls;

strong loan loss reserves; and a commitment to solid credit ratings. We want a balance sheet of

unquestioned strength.
With a fortress balance sheet, we can withstand Ð perhaps even beneÞt from Ð difÞcult times and be
deliberate in our capital allocation decisions. Last year, we paid dividends of $
.per share and
spent $million to repurchase stock while making key investments in our business and ended the
year with a strong Tier 
capital ratio of .%. Accountability for performance.
Financial reports alone wonÕt sufÞce. They are simply tools. Financial
discipline also requires those in charge to have a deep understanding of their businesses and of what

drives proÞtability and growth. Each month, the management team from each line of business meets

with us to discuss Þnancial performance, revenue growth, risk management, competitive threats,

productivity, innovation, key initiatives and talent management.
In the beginning, these meetings were somewhat painful for most of us. Too often, they ended with
more questions than answers. Many managers were asked to dive more deeply into the numbers and

be more tough-minded about the reasons why certain initiatives were not on target. Although they

arenÕt yet where they should be, our meetings are becoming more open, candid and focused.
4In addition to placing more accountability for performance within each line of business, each business
needs to increasingly give its Þeld managers the clear and appropriate authority they need to be

more accountable and responsive to customers and local market conditions.
Identifying, pricing and managing risk.All of our businesses must be properly paid for assuming
risk. All forms of risk Ð interest, credit, market, liquidity, operational, technology and business Ð

must be categorized, valued, measured and dynamically managed in the constantly changing economic

and business environment. While we continue to set risk policy and manage overall risk centrally,

we have established line of business risk committees that are accountable for risk performance with-
in the business. By working directly with the businesses, we are creating an informed risk culture

that responds more quickly to business and economic changes and strives to avoid surprises. 
CUTWASTEANDIMPROVEEFFICIENCYTHROUGHOUTSTANDINGSYSTEMSANDOPERATIONS
.A Þnancial services company cannot win unless it is a low-cost provider. This requires eliminating

waste and creating the most effective systems and most efÞcient operations in the business. We are well

on our way. For example: 
¥We have completed the credit card industryÕs largest-ever systems conversion, moving 
% ofour Visa and MasterCard cardmember base to a faster, more ßexible and cost-effective processing

system; the remaining 
% will be converted in 
, at which point all million credit cards
will be serviced through a single technology platform.
¥Already the leader in U.S. dollar funds transfers, we will Þnish our clearing systems integration

in the second quarter of 
. When we are done, our team will have invested 
,develop-
ment hours on the project designed to ensure that the 
,transactions that move an average
of $.trillion every day are executed ßawlessly. 
¥Within the Investment Bank, we are creating a global technology platform for institutional
credit risk management as well as credit trading and derivatives processing. 
¥We will move the Texas banking franchise onto our common deposit platform in 
. In 
,we will complete our bank franchise integration with the conversion of New York, New Jersey
and Connecticut, providing all customers with full access to banking services across state lines.
¥We are consolidating operations centers, refreshing the networks of our 
major processing 
centers and large business hubs, expanding strategic data centers, signiÞcantly reducing the
number of required software applications and centralizing our global help desks to provide 

consistent infrastructure.
¥We believe that to assume more control of our destiny we must assume more control of our tech-
nology. On January 
, , we welcomed 
,previously outsourced technologists to the Þrm.
Together, we will strive to build the best, most efÞcient systems and operations in our industry. 
By year-end , we hope to have completed nearly 
conversions and reduced our total 
number of systems by approximately 
%. It is an undertaking that will require more than 
.millionÒpeople hoursÓ 
and at least .million hours of systems testing. When the process is complete, most
of our systems will be on single and upgraded platforms. This will give us a distinct edge in provid-

ing our customers with products and services that are competitively superior in quality, 

innovation and price. During the next two years, our systems conversions will be one of our most

difÞcult challenges, but we will do whatever it takes to get them right.
INVESTFORGROWTH
.Business cannot grow simply by improving efÞciency. Growth requires a
laser-like focus on execution, a consistent management of risk, a competitive product set and out-

standing customer service. We are not interested in growth simply for the sake of growth. We are
5looking for Ògood growthÓ; i.e., good products that meet customer needs and can be proÞtable over
a sustained period of time.Although we currently hold leadership positions in virtually every business we are in, there is room
to grow in all of them. We intend to build these businesses by investing in organic growth and Þlling

strategic gaps through acquisitions and partnerships.
Investing in organic growth. 
We will not grow short-term revenue at the expense of long-term success.
For us, smart growth means doing a lot of little things right. Some key examples for 
include:¥Extending our reach in consumer banking by adding more than 
,sales people,branches,and ,ATMs to our -state retail bank network;
¥Aggressively funding new business development in the Investment Bank, with a special focus on
the energy sector and mortgage-backed securities business, as well as investing in Þxed income

and foreign exchange prime brokerage;
¥Intensifying our marketing of Card Services by bringing the Chase brand to a broader customer
base; maximizing our partnerships with many of the nationÕs best-known brands; innovating

continuously; and expanding product breadth;
¥Increasing our Private BankÕs ultra high net worth client base by entering eight new markets
globally and building our Private Client ServicesÕ client base by expanding our presence in the

large and rapidly growing high net worth market in the northeast United States.
Filling the gaps through acquisitions and partnerships. 
In addition to fueling organic growth, we will
pursue strategic acquisitions and partnerships to Þll gaps in capabilities, geographies, product offerings

and services. Although we are not prepared to make any large moves at this time, we will not pass up

smaller acquisitions of strategic value. For example, we entered into two important partnerships and

made one acquisition:¥In F
ebruary 
, JPMorgan and Cazenove Group formed JPMorgan Cazenove, a joint venture
that will be one of the United KingdomÕs foremost investment banks. This venture is a major step

toward strengthening our global position.
¥In December , we formed a strategic partnership with and acquired a majority interest in
Highbridge Capital Management, a hedge fund with $
billion of assets under management andan extraordinary consistency of returns. HighbridgeÕs talent, longevity and track record will be a

tremendous addition to our investment offerings for institutional and high net worth clients.
¥In January 
, JPMorgan Chase acquired Electronic Financial Services, a leading provider of
government-issued beneÞts payments and pre paid stored value cards used by state and federal

government agencies and private institutions. This acquisition further advanced our leadership

position in wholesale electronic payment services and immediately positioned us as a leader in the

public sector segment.BUILDGREATBRANDS
. Shortly after the merger was announced, we began formulating our brand
strategy. At Þrst, we thought we simply needed to decide whether to market our consumer products

under the name of Bank One or Chase. Our research, however, produced intriguing results. Both

Chase and Bank One tested well, but the research revealed that each has very different strengths.

The Chase brand is associated with Òa tradition of trustÓ that could extend to a broader array of

products and services, such as insurance, retirement products and investments. The Bank One

brand, however, is viewed as having Òmomentum.Ó  
6Beginning in March 
, you will see the emergence of a new Chase brand that combines the best
of both: the trustworthiness of Chase with the energy of Bank One. Chase will be used to market

products and services offered by Commercial Banking, Card Services and Retail Financial Services.

The re-energized brand will be introduced with a nationwide marketing campaign focusing initially

on the Chase family of credit cards. 
By the end of , our consumer business will be spending more than $
billion annually in support
of one brand: Chase. We intend to make Chase the best brand in the consumer Þnancial services

industry. We are on track to have all of our more than 
,bank branches operating under theChase brand by the end of the third quarter 
.Our research also reafÞrmed the power of the JPMorgan brand, which is associated with a long 
history of unsurpassed client service, high performance standards, integrity and commitment to

relationships. The Investment Bank, our international services and Asset & Wealth Management
businesses Ð which include investment management, the Private Bank and Private Client Services Ð

will now be marketed solely under the JPMorgan brand.
CREATEAWINNINGCULTURE
.Over the course of our careers, we have completed many major
mergers. They are always difÞcult. Mergers are about change, and change is hard. Our past experiences,

however, have made us appreciate the enormous progress that the people of Bank One and JPMorgan

Chase have achieved this year.
Since we announced the merger, a lot has been written about how the cultures of Bank One and
JPMorgan Chase would interact and which one would survive. Today, a new culture is emerging

that reßects the best of both Þrms. Every day, we are getting better, and the effects are taking hold.

We are becoming more candid and open in the way we communicate and more disciplined in the
way we run the Þrm. People are working together to tackle issues, and managers are leading their

teams with a deeper understanding of the underlying dynamics of their businesses. There is greater

buy-in for the vision, more passion about growing the business and a heightened sense of urgency.
A winning culture requires great leaders. In 
, we identiÞed our top 
,leaders from through-
out the businesses and around the world. But that is just the beginning. In 
, we will conduct
in-depth talent reviews in all lines of business to identify our high-potential individuals and create

development plans for all of them. Our LeadershipMorganChase program provides a unique 

forum for our senior managers to come together to learn more about our vision and plan for the

Þrm and to develop the skills they need to become great managers and leaders. Our goal is to 

provide our people with everything they need to play an instrumental role in the future growth 

and success of this Þrm.We are also working to create a more inclusive work environment by requiring our managers to 
be accountable for building diverse teams. As part of our effort to improve diversity at the executive

level, we are now devoting much more attention to career planning and development for high-

potential employees from under-represented groups.
BUILDAGREATCOMPANY
.Our Þrm has been built on a reputation of trust that spans more than
two centuries and represents the coming together of more than 
companies. Today, we stand on
the shoulders of those who came before us. We honor this legacy by committing ourselves to the

integrity and customer service that have long distinguished our Þrm. We intend to earn this reputa-

tion every day by doing the right thing, not necessarily the most expedient thing.
Our Board of Directors shares this commitment and is helping us accomplish it. We expect a lot 
from our Board, and they expect a lot from us. We appreciate their support and value their guidance.
7We also would like to express special appreciation to the Directors who have retired since the merger
was announced: Riley P. Bechtel; Frank A. Bennack, Jr.; John H. Bryan; M. Anthony Burns; Dr.

Maureen A. Fay; John R. Hall; Helene L. Kaplan; John W. Rogers, Jr.; and Frederick P. Stratton, Jr.
A great company gives its employees the opportunity to share in the success they have helped create.
Two-thirds of our employees own our stock. They think like owners because they are. To help ensure
that our senior management team always acts in the long-term best interests of the Þrm, we are

required to hold 
% of the stock awarded. 
A great company gives back to the community it serves. Our predecessor Þrms have long and distin-
guished traditions of active community involvement. Lending to build and rebuild communities,

philanthropic giving and employee volunteerism are traditions that are very much alive today at

JPMorgan Chase. In 
, more than 
,JPMorgan Chase employees around the world dedicated
,hours to ,volunteer community service projects.
In 
, we made an $
billion, -year public commitment to provide loans and investments that
will beneÞt the credit and capital needs of minority and lower-income households and communities.

In 
, we achieved the Þrst $
billion of that commitment. Additionally, we contributed more than $
million to thousands of not-for-proÞt organizations
around the world. To help ensure we are meeting the speciÞc needs of these communities, most of

our philanthropic decisions are made locally. One of these community projects Ð our ON_DEC 

program in Brooklyn Ð received the 
ÒRon Brown Award for Corporate Leadership,Ó the only
presidential award honoring companies for achievement in employee and community relations. 
INCLOSING
,the past few years were transformative for both Bank One and JPMorgan Chase. In
facing tough challenges we each have emerged better, stronger and healthier. Together, we are now

equipped and determined to become the best Þnancial institution in the world.We asked a great deal of our employees during the past year, and they delivered. But we still have an
enormous amount of work ahead. The coming year will be a crucial one for us. The potential is

tremendous. We promise to do everything in our power to seize the opportunity and deliver on it

for our customers, for our shareholders, for our employees and for all of the communities we serve

throughout the United States and around the world.
Sincerely,
James Dimon
President and Chief Operating OfÞcer
William B. Harrison, Jr.
Chairman and Chief Executive OfÞcer
Mar
ch , Investment Bank(In millions,except ratios)
20042003Total net revenue$13,506$14,254Operating earnings3,6543,929Return on common equity18%17%81%77%8Our businessesWe are one of the worldÕs leading 
investment banks with deep client 
relationships and product capabilities,

serving 8,000 clients in more than 100
countries.Our clients are corporations,

Þnancial institutions,governments and

institutional investors worldwide.Our

broad client franchise is one of many 
features that differentiates us from our
investment banking peers.
We provide a complete platform to ourclients,including advising on corporate

strategy and structure,equity and debt

capital raising,sophisticated risk manage-

ment,research,and market-making in

cash securities and derivative instruments

around the world.We also participate in

proprietary investing and trading.2005 execution focus¥Focus on the client;exceed 
expectations with each interaction.¥Deliver our full product base to clients;leverage partnerships with Commercial
BankingÕs Middle Market segment,

Treasury & Securities Services and ChaseHome Finance.
¥Focus on generating higher returns relative to our risk taking.¥Invest in growth businesses,including
Energy and Commodities,Fixed Income

and Foreign Exchange Prime Brokerage,

Equities and Mortgage-Backed Securities.
¥Maintain a talented,entrepreneurial and
inclusive workforce.
¥Streamline decision making,be nimble
and efÞcient,and concentrate on foster-

ing efÞcient processes and procedures.
2004 accomplishments ¥Grew Investment banking fees by 12%.¥Increased share of initial public offeringsin the global markets by U.S.issuers to

9% from 1% Ð up to #4 from #16 in 2003.¥Pioneered a new hybrid offering:the credit equity target redemption note
structure is the Þrst product to integrate
interest rate,credit and equity derivatives.
¥Advised on seven of the 10 largest dealsin announced global M&A and grew
share to 26%,up from 16% in 2003.
¥Developed signiÞcant economies of scalein derivatives technology and analytics,

thereby achieving low-cost producer status.
¥Strengthened our position in Europe bycreating JPMorgan Cazenove,a joint

venture that will provide investment
banking services to clients in the United
Kingdom and Ireland.Investment Bank
¥Structured Products Award for Innovation of the Year Ð JPMorgan credit equity target redemption note 
(Riskmagazine,January 2005)
¥#1 Interest Rate Options,Interest Rate Swaps,Equity Derivatives and Credit Derivatives  
(RiskEnd User Rankings,May 2004)
¥#1 U.S.M&A (announced);#1 Global and U.S.Syndicated Loans;#1 Asia PaciÞc Equity Convertibles;#2 Global
M&A (announced);#2 Europe Middle East Africa M&A (number of deals);#2 Europe Middle East Africa

Equity Convertibles;#2 U.S.Investment Grade Bonds;and #3 Global Debt,Equity and Equity-Related Securities
Investment Bank highlights
Pro forma** All information is on a pro forma combined-operating basis.See inside front cover for details.
9Retail Financial Services(In millions,except ratios)
20042003Total net revenue$15,076$14,770Operating earnings3,2792,633Return on common equity25%21%Retail Financial Services
Our businessesRetail Financial Services helps meet the
Þnancial needs of consumers and small
businesses through more than 2,500 bank
branches and 225 mortgage ofÞces as well
as through relationships with over 15,000
auto dealerships,2,500 schools and univer-

sities,and 2,100 insurance agencies.
More than 5,000 personal bankers,2,500
mortgage loan ofÞcers,1,300 investment

representatives and 1,000 small business
bankers work with customers to provide

checking and savings accounts,mortgage

and home equity loans,small business loans,

credit cards,investments and insurance.
We are the fourth-largest mortgage originator,the second-largest home equity

originator,the largest bank originator of

automobile loans and a top provider of
loans for college students.
2005 execution focus¥Add more than 150 branches,1,000
employees in new branches,1,000 sales-

people throughout our branch network
and 1,000 ATMs to serve customers better.
¥Continue to open new checking accountsand to build on these and existing rela-
tionships to include sales of investments,

credit cards,and home equity and small

business loans.
¥Integrate mortgage lenders into bank branches to serve 9 million 
branch customers.
¥Achieve incremental merger savings,free-
ing capital for investment in new branches,

branch and ATM refurbishment,salesforce,

marketing and technology.
¥Begin to convert Bank One branches toChase brand on a state-by-state basis,

heightening local market visibility,gen-

erating new customers and expanding
current relationships.
2004 accomplishments ¥Increased consumer and small businessbanking relationships,resulting in a 9%

increase in average core deposits and a
7% increase in checking accounts.
¥Rolled out proÞt-and-loss statements aswell as a consistent sales incentive pro-
gram throughout the branch network.¥Implemented an integrated SmallBusiness Banking model,aligning prod-

ucts,services and incentives with the

branch network.¥Originated $146 billion of mortgagesand grew mortgage servicing portfolio
by 9% to $562.0 billion.¥Grew auto and education loans by 7%to $53.9 billion.¥Increased investment sales volume by7% to $10.9 billion.¥ Added 106 bank branches,bringing the total to 2,508 in one of the largest U.S.branch 
networks and added 325 ATMs,bringing the total to 6,650 in the second-largest 

U.S.ATM network¥Grew checking accounts by 563,000,bringing the total to 8.2 million accounts
¥Increased home equity originations by 23% to $52 billionRetail Financial Services highlightsPro forma** All information is on a pro forma combined-operating basis.See inside front cover for details.
10Card Services
(In millions,except ratios)
20042003Total net revenue$15,001$13,968Operating earnings1,6811,368Return on common equity14%12%Card Services
Our businesses With 94 million cards in circulation andmore than $135 billion in managed loans,

Chase Card Services is the largest issuer
of general-purpose credit cards in the
United States and the largest merchant
acquirer in the country.Our customers 

used our cards for over $282 billion worth
of charge volume in 2004.Chase offers a wide variety of cards 
to satisfy the individual needs of 
consumers and small businesses,including

cards issued for AARP,Amazon.com,

Continental Airlines,Marriott,Southwest

Airlines,Starbucks,United Airlines,

Universal Studios,Walt Disney Company

and a range of other well-known brands 
and organizations.
2005 execution focus¥Drive proÞtable growth in new customer acquisitions by leveraging
best-in-class processes as well as our
substantial credit card partnerships 
and by investing in new capabilities.
¥Grow existing customer base proÞtablyby keeping and activating more cus-

tomers and increasing sales volume and
fee-based revenue programs.
¥Drive down operating cost per activeaccount to industry-leading levels.
¥Invest in marketing and technology 
initiatives designed to position the
Chase brand for long-term growth.¥Complete card conversion by movingheritage Chase portfolio to new 
processing system.2004 accomplishments ¥Made quick merger integration decisionsand took action by selecting the best 
people,practices and processes.
¥Acquired 17.8 million net new Visa,
MasterCard and private label accounts.
¥Completed the industryÕs largest-ever 
systems conversion,moving millions 

of accounts in the heritage Bank One 
portfolio to a more ßexible and cost-
effective processing system.¥Increased merchant processing volume to $489 billion.¥Acquired the Circuit City portfolio,giving
us a platform that will allow us to issue
private label cards.
¥ 94 million credit cards issued;over $282 billion in 2004 charge volume 
¥Largest general-purpose credit card issuer and merchant acquirer in the U.S.
¥More than 850 credit card partnerships with well-known brandsCard Services highlights
Pro forma** All information is on a pro forma combined-operating basis.See inside front cover for details.
11Commercial 
BankingOur businessesCommercial Banking serves more than25,000 clients,including corporations,

municipalities,Þnancial institutions 

and not-for-proÞt entities with annual 

revenuesgenerally ranging from $10 million to $2 billion.A local market presence and a strong 
customer service model coupled with a
focus on risk management provide a 
solid infrastructure for Commercial
Banking to offer the complete product 
set of JPMorgan Chase,including lending,

treasury services,investment banking 

and investment management.Commercial BankingÕs clients beneÞt 
greatlyfrom our extensive retail bankingbranch network and often use the capa-
bilities of JPMorgan Chase exclusively 
to meet their Þnancial services needs.
Commercial Banking
(In millions,except ratios)
20042003Total net revenue$3,417$3,397Operating earnings992832Return on common equity29%20%2004 accomplishments ¥Engaged more than 4,500 employeesacross 22 states to communicate a 
consistent and timely message to 
clients regarding the merger and 
beneÞts to them.¥Delivered $1 billion of earnings and a 29% ROE through disciplined 
Þnancial management.¥Grew deposits 16% to $66 billion.¥Launched a client coverage initiative tomore effectively provide Þnancial solu-
tions to the companies in our markets.
¥Began the integration of systems andproducts to enhance our ability to offer 
a full range of Þnancial services.
¥ Businesses include Middle Market Banking,Corporate Banking,Commercial Real Estate Banking,
Business Credit and Equipment Leasing¥ Commercial Banking operates in 10 of the top 15 major metropolitan areas in the U.S.

¥ Leading commercial bank in the U.S.,with $50 billion in average loans and $66 billion in 
average depositsCommercial Banking highlights
2005 execution focus¥Demonstrate commitment to our clients through all stages of their
growth with our industry expertise 
and extensive geographic reach.¥Provide consistent coverage to our clients offering them the best 
in local service.
¥Accelerate business developmentthrough focused product and client 
coverage in the markets we serve.
¥Continue integrating the systems and services to deliver the full range 
of capabilities more efÞciently to 
our customers.
Pro forma** All information is on a pro forma combined-operating basis.See inside front cover for details.
12Treasury & Securities Services(In millions,except ratios)
20042003Total net revenue$5,400$4,772Operating earnings437454Return on common equity23%24%Treasury&Securities Services
Our businesses Treasury & Securities Services is a globalleader in providing transaction,invest-

ment and information services to support
the needs of chief Þnancial ofÞcers,treas-

urers,issuers and institutional investors

worldwide through its three businesses Ð
Treasury Services,Investor Services and
Institutional Trust Services.
Treasury Services is a leading provider ofcash management,trade and treasury serv-

ices,processing an average of $1.8 trillion

in U.S.dollar funds transfers daily.Investor

Services is one of the top three custodians
in the world,with $9.1 trillion in total

assets under custody.Institutional Trust

Services is the worldÕs largest debt trustee

and American Depositary Receipt bank

(based on market capitalization under man-

agement),servicing $6.7 trillion in debt.
2005 execution focus¥Leverage broad product capabilitiesfrom the merger to provide innovative

solutions to clients.
¥Expand in high-potential market 
segments and regions.
¥Cross sell with business partners acrossJPMorgan Chase.
¥Achieve market differentiation by deliv-
ering competitively superior customer
service and product innovation.
¥Continue to focus on cost efÞciencies tofund investments in the business.
¥Make strategic acquisitions to increase
scale in traditional product areas,

extend product lines and expand geo-
graphic reach.2004 accomplishments¥Delivered double-digit revenue growth.¥Created the worldÕs largest cash 
management provider as a result of 
the merger.
¥Executed the Þrst phase of the mergersuccessfully,which included integrating

international operations in 36 countries.
¥Increased assets under custody by 20%.¥Grew volume of Automated Clearing
House (ACH) originations by 30%.
¥Increased corporate trust securitiesunder administration by 6%.¥Acquired two companies that expandedproduct depth and geographic reach:
Tranaut,a recognized best-in-class hedge
fund administrator;and TASC,the largest

third-party asset administration service
provider in South Africa.
¥ #1 U.S.Dollar Treasury Clearing and Commercial Payments;#1 ACH Originations,
CHIPS and Fedwire
¥ #2 Global Custody;ÒBest Global Custodian OverallÓ
(Global Investor)¥ #1 Trustee U.S.Corporate Debt;#1 Global Trustee Collateralized Debt Obligations
Treasury & Securities Services highlightsPro forma** All information is on a pro forma combined-operating basis.See inside front cover for details.
13Asset&Wealth Management
Our businessesAsset & Wealth Management provides
investment and wealth management serv-
ices to investors and their advisors.With

combined assets under supervision in
excess of $1 trillion,we are one of the

largest asset and wealth managers in the
world.We manage our clientsÕ assets

through four key business segments:

Institutional,Retail,Private Bank and

Private Client Services.
JPMorgan Asset Management provides
investment management for our 
institutional and retail clients through a
broad range of separate accounts and
funds.Our retail clients,who seek retire-

ment and brokerage services,also are serv-

iced through JPMorgan Retirement Plan
Services and BrownCo.Our ultra high net

worth and high net worth clients receive
integrated wealth management services
from JPMorgan Private Bank and JPMorgan

Private Client Services,respectively.
Asset & Wealth Management
(In millions,except ratios)
20042003Total net revenue$4,901$4,275Operating earnings879629Return on common equity37%25%2005 execution focus¥Meet client demand for absolute returnby expanding our investment capabili-
ties in alternative investment products.
¥Continue to integrate our intellectualcapital with the global resources
required to deliver strong,consistent

investment performance across our
broad range of investment strategies.
¥Continue to expand the geographicfootprint of our wealth management
businesses by investing in eight new
Private Banking markets globally and

building the Private Client Services 

markets in the northeastern U.S.
¥Build our Retail franchise by expandingour third-party distribution,401(k) and

brokerage platforms.
2004 accomplishments ¥Achieved strong earnings growth driven by asset inßows and improved
markets globally.
¥Surpassed $100 billion in European retail client assets,including mandatesfor diverse funds,sub-advisory and 

liquidity strategies.
¥Delivered strong,consistent performance
across a broad range of investment 
strategies.More than 90% of JPMorgan

Asset ManagementÕs U.S.large-cap

research-driven equity strategies and
95% of our broad market Þxed income

strategies outperformed industry bench-
marks for 2004 and 2003.¥Produced record asset inßows forJPMorgan Private Bank.
¥Formed a strategic partnership with and acquired a majority interest in
Highbridge Capital Management,a 

$7 billion hedge fund Þrm with extra-
ordinary consistency of returns 
and experienced business leadership.
¥ $1 trillion in assets under supervision;over $40 billion in alternative assets under management 
¥2 million retail clients,plus institutional and high net worth clients
¥#1 U.S.Private Bank;#2 Global Money Market Asset Manager;#2 Offshore Fund Manager;
#3 Global Private Bank;#3 U.S.Active Asset Manager;#5 U.S.Mutual Fund Company
Asset & Wealth Management highlights
Pro forma** All information is on a pro forma combined-operating basis.See inside front cover for details.
14CorporateOur businessesThe Corporate Sector is composed of the Private Equity business,Treasury,

and corporate staff and other centrally
managed expenses.The Private Equity

business invests in leveraged buyouts,

growth equity and venture capital for the
Firm and third parties around the world.Treasury manages structural interest raterisk and the FirmÕs investment portfolio.

The corporate staff areas support the linesof business to deliver superior Þnancial
services to businesses and consumers
around the world.The support areas include:Central
Technology and Operations;Internal Audit;
Executive OfÞce;Finance;General

Services;Human Resources;Marketing &

Communications;OfÞce of the General

Counsel;Real Estate and Business

Services;Risk Management;and Strategy

and Development.2005 execution focus¥Reduce the FirmÕs overall exposure 
to Private Equity while continuing 

to invest in Private Equity as a 

strategic business.
¥Invest in corporate technology initia-tives:expand the strategic data centers;

enhance the infrastructure that supports
risk and Þnance activities;integrate the

technology that supports human
resources activities;refresh 11 major

processing centers and 22 corporate
business hubs;consolidate global help

desks and provide consistent infrastruc-
ture;and consolidate operating centers.
¥Advance technology initiatives within
Card Services,Investment Bank and

Treasury & Securities Services.
2004 accomplishments ¥Generated strong Private Equity results
while reducing the book value of the

Private Equity portfolio to $7.5 billion 

at year-end 2004,from $9.6 billion at

year-end 2003.
¥Repositioned the Treasury investment
portfolio in expectation of rising 
interest rates.
¥Repurchased $738 million of commonstock.¥ Implemented Þnancial reporting architecture.
¥Finalized brand strategy.
¥Began the insourcing of technologyactivities.
¥Eliminated duplicate activities thatresulted from the merger and reduced
related headcount.¥Conformed our human resources andbeneÞts policies.
All information is on a pro forma combined-operating basis.See inside front cover for details.
15Community Partnership
Our businessesCentral to our history and culture is theprinciple of working to improve the com-
munities we serve.In 2004,JPMorgan

Chase contributed over $140 million to
thousands of not-for-proÞt organizations

around the world and provided more than
$3.0 billion just in community develop-
ment lending and investing for housing
and economic development in low- and
moderate-income communities.As part of

our global volunteer initiative,27,500

employees,retirees,friends and family

members participated in 1,900 volunteer
projects.We also work to preserve the

environment through policies and initia-
tives that are guided by our OfÞce of
Environmental Affairs.
We have experienced Þrsthand the bene-Þts gained with a corporate culture thatÕs

actively inclusive,where colleagues are

recognized based on their talent and 
skills and where diversity is used as a
competitive advantage to beneÞt from the

broadest possible pool of employee talent,
experiences and perspectives.
These capabilities and programs supportour interaction with communities and
with each other and guide our efforts to
be a responsible corporate citizen.2005 execution focus¥Continue to work with thousands of not-for-proÞts across the United States and

in global markets to make an impact in

three primary areas of need:community

asset development,youth education and

community life.
¥Strengthen our partnerships with thecommunities by evaluating and address-

ing their needs based on our complete
lending,investing,philanthropic and

sponsorship capabilities.
¥Continue to drive accountability fordiversity through business metrics across
the organization.¥Develop and implement a comprehensiveenvironmental policy to promote environ-
mentally responsible ways to conduct our

internal and external business activities.
¥Made an $800 billion,10-year public commitment to provide loans and investments that will 
beneÞt the credit and capital needs of minority and lower-income households and communities
¥Earned ÒThe Ron Brown Award for Corporate Leadership,Óa U.S.presidential award that 
recognizes companies for outstanding achievement in employee and community relations,for our

ON_DEC program which bridges the Òdigital divideÓat one inner city middle school in New York
¥Provided more than $5 million in corporate and employee donations to help with the Indian Oceantsunami disaster relief efforts to several not-for-proÞt organizations,including,but not limited to,

the International Red Cross,UNICEF and numerous Asia-based organizations
2004 accomplishments ¥Achieved more than $68.0 billion in theÞrst year of our $800 billion,10-year

public commitment.¥Contributed over $140 million to not-for-
proÞts,including $18 million directed by

employees through our matching gift
and volunteer grants programs.
¥Enriched communities with sponsorshipsand events focused on arts,culture and

sports,including the JPMorgan Chase

Corporate Challenge that raised more
than $375,000 for local not-for-proÞt

organizations globally.
¥Relaunched the Corporate DiversityCouncil,chaired by Bill Harrison.The

Council sets the overall vision for diversity
within JPMorgan Chase and seeks to
create a more inclusive workplace for all.¥Established the OfÞce of EnvironmentalAffairs and allocated dedicated resources
to increase the companyÕs focus on envi-

ronmental issues related to the company.
Community Partnership highlights
16Board of Directors
Hans W.Becherer 
1,4Retired Chairman and Chief Executive OfÞcer 
Deere & Company
(Equipment manufacturer)John H.Biggs 
1,3Former Chairman and Chief Executive OfÞcerTeachers Insurance and Annuity Association-
College Retirement
Equities Fund (TIAA-CREF) 
(Pension fund)
Lawrence A.Bossidy 
4,5Retired Chairman Honeywell International Inc.
(Technology and manufacturing)
Stephen B.Burke 
2,3PresidentComcast Cable Communications,

Inc.
(Cable television)James S.Crown 
4,5President
Henry Crown and Company 
(DiversiÞed investments)Jam
es Dimon President and Chief Operating OfÞcerEllen V.Futter 
4,5President and Trustee
American Museum of 
Natural History 
(Museum)William H.Gray,III 
2,4Retired President and Chief Executive OfÞcer
The College Fund/UNCF (Educational assistance)William B.Harrison,Jr.
Chairman and Chief Executive OfÞcer Laban P.Jackson,Jr.
1,3Chairman and 
Chief Executive OfÞcer
Clear Creek Properties,Inc.

(Real estate development)John W.Kessler 
2,4OwnerJohn W.Kessler Company 

and Chairman
The New Albany Company
(Real estate development)Robert I.Lipp 
4,5Executive Chairman of the Board 
The St.Paul Travelers
Companies,Inc.

(Insurance) Richard A.Manoogian 
1,4Chairman and Chief Executive OfÞcer
Masco Corporation
(DiversiÞed manufacturer)David C.Novak 
2,3Chairman and 
Chief Executive OfÞcer
Yum! Brands,Inc.
(Franchised restaurants)
Lee R.Raymond 
2,3Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive OfÞcer
Exxon Mobil Corporation 
(Oil and gas)John R.Stafford 
2,3Retired Chairman of the Board
Wyeth 
(Pharmaceuticals)Anthony J.Horan

SecretaryMark I.Kleinman

TreasuryWilliam J.Moran
AuditJoseph L.Sclafani
Controller William B.Harrison,Jr.
*Chairman and 
Chief Executive OfÞcerJames Dimon*President and Chief Operating OfÞcerAustin A.Adams
*Technology & OperationsPaul BatemanAsset ManagementSteven D.Black
*Investment Bank 
Philip F.Bleser
Commercial BankingDouglas L.Braunstein 
Investment BankWilliam I.Campbell
*Card Services 
Michael J.Cavanagh
*Finance Michael K.Clark
Institutional Trust & 

Investor ServicesJohn R.Corrie
Investment Bank
David A.Coulter
West Coast RegionWilliam M.Daley
Midwest RegionKlaus DiederichsInvestment BankIna R.Drew
*Chief Investment OfÞcer 
Patrik L.Edsparr
Investment Bank
John J.Farrell
*Human Resources 
Walter A.Gubert
Europe,Middle East and Africa

Joan Guggenheimer*Legal & Compliance
Carlos M.Hernandez
Investment BankFrederick W.Hill

Marketing & Communications
Lorraine E.Hricik
Treasury ServicesFawzi Kyriakos-Saad
Investment BankRick LazioGovernment AffairsJames B.Lee,Jr.
Investment Bank
Steve MacLellanPrivate Client Services
Samuel Todd Maclin
*Commercial Banking 
Jay Mandelbaum*Strategy  
Donald H.McCree,III
Risk ManagementWilliam H.McDavid
*Legal & ComplianceHeidi Miller*Treasury & Securities Services  R.Ralph Parks
Asia PaciÞc
Scott Powell
Home Finance
David W.Puth
Investment BankCharles W.Scharf
*Retail Financial Services  

Richard J.Srednicki
Card ServicesJames E.Staley
*Asset & Wealth Management  

Jeffrey C.Walker
Private Equity

Don M.Wilson III
*Risk Management  
Thomas L.Wind
Home Finance
William T.Winters
*Investment Bank  Executive CommitteeOther corporate officers
Member of:1.Audit Committee
2.Compensation & Management 
Development Committee3.Corporate Governance & 
Nominating Committee4.Public Responsibility Committee

5.Risk Policy Committee
(*denotes member of Operating Committee)
This page has been amended since the Annual Report was printed and presents the Executive Committee of the Firm as of March 30,
2005.JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
17Table of contents
Financial:ManagementÕs discussion and analysis:
18Introduction

20Executive overview

22Consolidated results of operations

25Explanation and reconciliation of the FirmÕs
use of non-GAAP financial measures28Business segment results

49Balance sheet analysis

50Capital management

52 OffÐbalance sheet arrangements and 
contractual cash obligations
54Risk management

55 Liquidity risk management

57Credit risk management

70Market risk management

75Operational risk management

76Reputation and fiduciary risk management

76Private equity risk management

77Critical accounting estimates used by the Firm

80Nonexchange-traded commodity contracts at fair value

80Accounting and reporting developments
Audited financial statements:
82ManagementÕs report on internal control 
over financial reporting 83Report of independent registered public accounting firm

84Consolidated financial statements

88Notes to consolidated financial statements
Supplementary information:129Selected quarterly financial data

130Five-year summary of consolidated financial highlights

131Glossary of terms
Corporate:
132Community Advisory Board
134Regional Advisory Board 

134National Advisory Board

135JPMorgan Chase International Council

136Governance

137Corporate data and shareholder information
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co..
18JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
home mortgages.Consumer & Small Business Banking offers one of the
largest branch networks in the United States,covering 17 states with 2,508

branches and 6,650 automated teller machines.Auto & Education Finance is

the largest bank originator of automobile loans as well as a top provider of
loans for college students.Through its Insurance operations,the Firm sells and

underwrites an extensive range of financial protection products and investment

alternatives,including life insurance,annuities and debt protection products.
Card Services
Card Services (ÒCSÓ) is the largest issuer of general purpose credit cards in the

United States,with approximately 94 million cards in circulation,and is the largest

merchant acquirer.CS offers a wide variety of products to satisfy the needs of its

cardmembers,including cards issued on behalf of many well-known partners,

such as major airlines,hotels,universities,retailers and other financial institutions.
Commercial Banking
Commercial Banking (ÒCBÓ) serves more than 25,000 corporations,munici-

palities,financial institutions and not-for-profit entities,with annual revenues

generally ranging from $10 million to $2 billion.A local market presence and

a strong customer service model,coupled with a focus on risk management,

provide a solid infrastructure for CB to provide the FirmÕs complete product

set Ð lending,treasury services,investment banking and investment manage-

ment Ð for both corporate clients and their executives.CBÕs clients benefit

greatly from the FirmÕs extensive branch network and often use the Firm

exclusively to meet their financial services needs.
Treasury & Securities Services
Treasury & Securities Services (ÒTSSÓ) is a global leader in providing transaction,

investment and information services to support the needs of corporations,

issuers and institutional investors worldwide.TSS is the largest cash manage-

ment provider in the world and one of the top three global custodians.The

Treasury Services business provides clients with a broad range of capabilities,

including U.S.dollar and multi-currency clearing,ACH,trade,and short-term

liquidity and working capital tools.The Investor Services business provides a

wide range of capabilities,including custody,funds services,securities lend-

ing,and performance measurement and execution products.The Institutional

Trust Services business provides trustee,depository and administrative services

for debt and equity issuers.Treasury Services partners with the Commercial
Banking,Consumer & Small Business Banking and Asset & Wealth
Management segments to serve clients firmwide.As a result,certain Treasury

Services revenues are included in other segmentsÕ results.
Asset & Wealth Management
Asset & Wealth Management (ÒAWMÓ) provides investment management to

retail and institutional investors,financial intermediaries and high-net-worth

families and individuals globally.For retail investors,AWM provides invest-

ment management products and services,including a global mutual fund

franchise,retirement plan administration,and consultation and brokerage
Introduction
JPMorgan Chase & Co.(ÒJPMorgan ChaseÓor the ÒFirmÓ),a financial hold-

ing company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968,is a leading global

financial services firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the
United States,with $1.2 trillion in assets,$106 billion in stockholdersÕ equity

and operations in more than 50 countries.The Firm is a leader in investment

banking,financial services for consumers and businesses,financial transaction

processing,investment management,private banking and private equity.

JPMorgan Chase serves more than 90 million customers,including consumers

nationwide and many of the worldÕs most prominent wholesale clients.
JPMorgan ChaseÕs principal bank subsidiaries are JPMorgan Chase Bank,
National Association (ÒJPMorgan Chase BankÓ),a national banking associa-

tion with branches in 17 states;and Chase Bank USA,National Association,a

national bank headquartered in Delaware that is the FirmÕs credit card issuing

bank.JPMorgan ChaseÕs principal nonbank subsidiary is J.P.Morgan Securities

Inc.(ÒJPMSIÓ),its U.S.investment banking firm.
The headquarters for JPMorgan Chase is in New York City.The retail banking
business,which includes the consumer banking,small business banking and

consumer lending activities with the exception of credit card,is headquar-

tered in Chicago.Chicago also serves as the headquarters for the commercial

banking business.
JPMorgan ChaseÕs activities are organized,for management reporting purpos-
es,into six business segments,as well as Corporate.The FirmÕs wholesale

businesses are comprised of the Investment Bank,Commercial Banking,

Treasury & Securities Services,and Asset & Wealth Management.The FirmÕs

consumer businesses are comprised of Retail Financial Services and Card
Services.A description of the FirmÕs business segments,and the products and

services they provide to their respective client bases,follows:
Investment BankJPMorgan Chase is one of the worldÕs leading investment banks,as evidenced

by the breadth of its client relationships and product capabilities.The

Investment Bank (ÒIBÓ) has extensive relationships with corporations,finan-

cial institutions,governments and institutional investors worldwide.The Firm

provides a full range of investment banking products and services,including

advising on corporate strategy and structure,capital raising in equity and debt

markets,sophisticated risk management,and market-making in cash securi-

ties and derivative instruments in all major capital markets.The IB also com-

mits the FirmÕs own capital to proprietary investing and trading activities.
Retail Financial ServicesRetail Financial Services (ÒRFSÓ) includes Home Finance,Consumer & Small

Business Banking,Auto & Education Finance and Insurance.Through this

group of businesses,the Firm provides consumers and small businesses with

a broad range of financial products and services including deposits,invest-

ments,loans and insurance.Home Finance is a leading provider of consumer

real estate loan products and is one of the largest originators and servicers ofThis section of the Annual Report provides managementÕs discussion
and analysis (ÒMD&AÓ) of the financial condition and results of opera-
tions for JPMorgan Chase. See the Glossary of terms on page 131 for

a definition of terms used throughout this Annual Report. The MD&A
included in this Annual Report contains statements that are forward-
looking within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995. Such statements are based upon the current beliefs and
expectations of JPMorgan ChaseÕs management and are subject to 
significant risks and uncertainties. These risks and uncertainties could
cause JPMorgan ChaseÕs results to differ materially from those set forth

in such forward-looking statements. Such risks and uncertainties are
described herein and in Part I, Item 1: Business, Important factors that
may affect future results, in the JPMorgan Chase Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2004, filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission and available at the CommissionÕs

website (www.sec.gov), to which reference is hereby made.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
19services.AWM delivers investment management to institutional investors
across all asset classes.The Private bank and Private client services businesses

provide integrated wealth management services to ultra-high-net-worth and

high-net-worth clients,respectively.
Merger with Bank One Corporation
Effective July 1,2004,Bank One Corporation (ÒBank OneÓ) merged with and

into JPMorgan Chase (the ÒMergerÓ),pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of

Merger dated January 14,2004.As a result of the Merger,each outstanding

share of common stock of Bank One was converted in a stock-for-stock

exchange into 1.32 shares of common stock of JPMorgan Chase.The Merger

was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting.The purchase

price to complete the Merger was $58.5 billion.Key objectives of the Merger

were to provide the Firm with a more balanced business mix and greater 
geographic diversification.
Bank OneÕs results of operations were included in the FirmÕs results beginning
July 1,2004.Therefore,the results of operations for the 12 months ended

December 31,2004,reflect six months of operations of the combined Firm and

six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase;the results of operations for all other

periods prior to 2004 reflect only the operations of heritage JPMorgan Chase.
It is expected that cost savings of approximately $3.0 billion (pre-tax) will be
achieved by the end of 2007;approximately two-thirds of the savings are

anticipated to be realized by the end of 2005.Total 2004 Merger savings

were approximately $400 million.Merger costs to combine the operations of

JPMorgan Chase and Bank One are expected to range from approximately

$4.0 billion to $4.5 billion (pre-tax).Of these costs,approximately $1.0 billion,

specifically related to Bank One,were accounted for as purchase accounting

adjustments and were recorded as an increase to goodwill in 2004.Of the

approximately $3.0 billion to $3.5 billion in remaining Merger-related costs,

$1.4 billion (pre-tax) were incurred in 2004 and have been charged to
income,$1.4 billion (pre-tax) are expected to be incurred in 2005,and the

remaining costs are expected to be incurred in 2006.These estimated Merger-

related charges will result from actions taken with respect to both JPMorgan

ChaseÕs and Bank OneÕs operations,facilities and employees.The charges will

be recorded based on the nature and timing of these integration actions.
As part of the Merger,certain accounting policies and practices were 
conformed,which resulted in $976 million (pre-tax) of charges in 2004.The

significant components of the conformity charges were comprised of a $1.4
billion (pre-tax) charge related to the decertification of the sellerÕs interest in

credit card securitizations,and the benefit of a $584 million reduction in the

allowance for credit losses as a result of conforming the wholesale and con-

sumer credit provision methodologies.
Other business events Electronic Financial Services

On January 5,2004,JPMorgan Chase acquired Electronic Financial Services

(ÒEFSÓ),a leading provider of government-issued benefits payments and pre-

paid stored value cards used by state and federal government agencies and

private institutions.The acquisition further strengthened JPMorgan ChaseÕs

position as a leading provider of wholesale payment services.
CazenoveOn November 5,2004,JPMorgan Chase and Cazenove Group plc (ÒCazenoveÓ)

announced an agreement to combine CazenoveÕs investment banking busi-

ness and JPMorgan ChaseÕs United Kingdom-based investment banking busi-

ness into a new entity to be jointly owned.The partnership will provide

investment banking services in the United Kingdom and Ireland.The transac-

tion closed on February 28,2005,and the new company is called JPMorgan

Cazenove Holdings.
HighbridgeOn December 13,2004,JPMorgan Chase formed a strategic partnership 

with and acquired a majority interest in Highbridge Capital Management(ÒHighbridgeÓ),a 
New York-based multi-strategy hedge fund manager,with
seven discrete strategy groups and more than $7 billion of assets under 

management.Highbridge has offices in New York,London and Hong Kong.

Including Highbridge,JPMorgan Chase now manages more than $40 billion

of absolute-return products (e.g.,hedge funds,private equity and real 

estate investments).Vastera
On January 7,2005,JPMorgan Chase agreed to acquire Vastera,a provider of

global trade management solutions,for approximately $129 million.VasteraÕs

business will be combined with the Logistics and Trade Services businesses 

of TSSÕs Treasury Services unit.The transaction is expected to close in the first

half of 2005.Vastera automates trade management processes associated

with the physical movement of goods internationally;the acquisition will

enable Treasury Services to offer management of information and processes 

in support of physical goods movement,together with financial settlement.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
20JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Executive overview This overview of managementÕs discussion and analysis highlights
selected information and may not contain all of the information
that is important to readers of this Annual Report. This overview

discusses the economic or industry-wide factors that affected

JPMorgan Chase, the factors that drove business performance,
and the factors that management monitors in setting policy. For 

a more complete understanding of trends, events, commitments,
uncertainties, liquidity, capital resources and critical accounting

estimates, this entire Annual Report should be read carefully. 
Financial performance of JPMorgan Chase
As of or for the year ended December 31,(a)(in millions,except per share and ratio data)
20042003Change
Total net revenue
$43,097
$33,38429%
Provision for credit losses2,5441,54065
Noninterest expense34,35921,81657
Net income4,4666,719(34)
Net income per share Ð diluted
1.553.24(52)
Average common equity
75,64142,98876
Return on average common equity (ÒROCEÓ)
6%16%(1,000)bp
Loans$402,114
$214,76687%
Total assets
1,157,248770,91250
Deposits521,456326,49260
Tier 1 capital ratio
8.7%8.5%20bp
Total capital ratio
12.211.840
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Business overviewThe FirmÕs results in 2004 were affected by many factors,but the most signifi-
cant of these were the Merger,the litigation charge taken in the second 

quarter of the year and global economic growth.The Firm reported 2004 net income of $4.5 billion,or $1.55 per share,
compared with net income of $6.7 billion,or $3.24 per share,for 2003.

The return on common equity was 6%,compared with 16% in 2003.Results

included $3.7 billion in after-tax charges,or $1.31 per share,comprised of:

Merger costs of $846 million;charges to conform accounting policies as a

result of the Merger of $605 million;and a charge of $2.3 billion to increase

litigation reserves.Excluding these charges,operating earnings would have

been $8.2 billion,or $2.86 per share,and return on common equity would

have been 11%.Operating earnings represent business results without the

merger-related costs and the significant litigation charges.
During the course of the year,the Firm developed a comprehensive plan of
Merger integration and began to execute on the plan.Significant milestones 

during the year included:branding decisions for all businesses;merger of the

holding companies,lead banks and credit card banks;conversion of the Bank

One credit card portfolio to a new processing platform;announcement of

insourcing of major technology operations;and consolidation and standardi-

zation of human resource policies and benefit plans.As part of the Merger,

the Firm announced that it had targeted reducing operating expenses by 

$3.0 billion (pre-tax) by the end of 2007.In order to accomplish the cost

reductions,the Firm announced that it expects to incur Merger costs of

approximately $4.0 billion to $4.5 billion and reduce its workforce by approx-

imately 12,000 over the same time period.In 2004,both the U.S.and global economies continued to strengthen overall,
even though momentum slowed during the second half of the year due to 
rising oil prices.Gross domestic product increased by 3.9% globally and 4.4%

in the U.S.,both up from 2003.The U.S.economy experienced rising short-

term interest rates,driven by Federal Reserve Board (ÒFRBÓ) actions during the

course of the year.The federal funds rate increased from 1.00% to 2.25% dur-

ing the year and the yield curve flattened,as long-term interest rates were rel-

atively stable.Equity markets,both domestic and international,enjoyed strong

results,with the S&P 500 up 9% and international indices increasing in similar

fashion.Capital markets activity during 2004 was healthy,debt underwriting

was consistent with the strong levels experienced in 2003,and equity under-

writing enjoyed strong and consistent activity during the year.The U.S.consumer

sector showed continued strength buoyed by the overall economic strength,

despite slowing mortgage origination and refinance activity.Retail sales were

up over the prior year,and bankruptcy filings were down significantly from 2003.
On an operating basis,net income in each of the FirmÕs lines of business was
affected primarily by the Merger.The discussion that follows highlights other

factors which affected operating results in each business.
Despite the relatively beneficial capital markets environment,results for the
Investment Bank were under pressure during the year.This was primarily due

to a decline in trading revenue related to lower fixed income trading,driven

by weaker portfolio management results,and a reduction in net interest

income,stemming primarily from lower loan balances.This was partially offset

by increased investment banking fees,the result of continued strength in debt

underwriting,and higher advisory fees.The Investment Bank benefited from a

reduction in the allowance for credit losses,primarily due to the improved

credit quality of the loan portfolio,as evidenced by the significant drop in

nonperforming loans and,to a lesser extent,recoveries of previously charged-

off loans.Expenses rose,primarily due to higher compensation expenses.
Retail Financial Services benefited from better spreads earned on depositsand growth in retained residential mortgage and home equity loan balances.

Mortgage fees and related income was also up,reflecting higher mortgage

servicing revenue,partially offset by significantly lower prime mortgage pro-

duction income related to the slower mortgage origination activity.The

Provision for credit losses benefited from improved credit quality in nearly all
portfolios and a reduction in the allowance for credit losses related to the

sale of a $4 billion manufactured home loan portfolio.Higher compensation

expenses were due to continued expansion of the branch office network,

including 130 new locations (106 net additional branches) opened during

2004 for the combined Firm,and 
expansion of the sales force,partially offset
by ongoing efficiency improvements.
Card Services revenue benefited from higher loan balances and customercharge volume,which increased net interest income and higher net inter-

change income,respectively.Expenses increased due to higher marketing

spending and higher volume-based processing expenses.
Commercial Banking revenues benefited from strong deposit growth andhigher investment banking fees.These benefits were partially offset by lower

service charges on deposits,which often decline when interest rates rise.

Credit quality continued to improve,resulting in lower net charge-offs and

nonperforming loans.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
21Treasury & Securities Services revenues benefited from strong growth in assets
under custody and average deposits,along with deposit spreads,which

improved due to the relatively low interest rate environment for deposits.

These benefits were offset by lower service charges on deposits,which often

decline when interest rates rise.Revenues and expenses also were affected by

acquisitions,divestitures and growth in business volume.Expenses also increased

due to software impairment charges,and legal and technology-related expenses.
Asset & Wealth Management results were positively affected by the strength of
global equity markets,an improved product mix,better investment performance

and net asset inflows.Results also benefited from deposit and loan growth.
The Corporate segment performance was negatively affected by a reposition-
ing of the investment securities portfolio and tighter spreads.This was partially

offset by improved Private Equity results due to an improved climate for

investment sales.
The FirmÕs balance sheet was likewise significantly affected by the Merger.Aside
from the Merger,the Firm took a number of actions during the year to strength-

enthe balance sheet.Notably,the Treasury investment portfolio was reposi-

tioned to reduce exposure to rising interest rates;auto leasing was de-empha-

sized,and lease receivables were reduced by 16% to $8 billion;the $4 billion

manufactured home loan portfolio was sold;the $2 billion recreational vehicle

portfolio was sold subsequent to year-end;a significant portion of third-party

private equity investments have been sold;and the Firm increased its litigation

reserves.The FirmÕs capital base was also significantly enhanced following the

Merger.As of year-end,total stockholdersÕ equity was $106 billion,and the Tier

1 capital ratio was 8.7%.The capital position allowed the Firm to begin repur-

chasing common stock during the second half of the year,with more than $700

million,or 19.3 million common shares,repurchased during the year.
2005 business outlookJPMorgan ChaseÕs outlook for 2005 should be viewed against the backdrop 

of the global economy,financial markets and the geopolitical environment,

all of which are integrally linked together.While the Firm considers outcomes

for,and has contingency plans to respond to,stress environments,its basic 

outlook for 2005 is predicated on the interest rate movements implied in the

forward rate curve for U.S.Treasuries,the continuation of the favorable U.S.and

international equity markets and continued expansion of the global economy.
The performance of the FirmÕs capital markets businesses is highly correlated
to overall global economic growth.The Investment Bank enters 2005 with a

strong pipeline for advisory and underwriting business,and it continues to

focus on growing its client-driven trading business.Compared with 2004,the

Investment Bank expects a reduction in credit portfolio revenues,as both net

interest income on loans and gains from workouts are likely to decrease.

Financial market movements and activity levels also affect Asset & Wealth

Management and Treasury & Securities Services.Asset & Wealth Management

anticipates revenue growth,driven by net inflows to Assets under supervision

and by the Highbridge acquisition,as well as deposit and loan growth.

Treasury & Securities Services anticipates modest revenue growth,due to

wider spreads on deposits,as well as increased business volume and activity

in the custody,trade,commercial card,American Depositary Receipt and

Collateralized Debt Obligation businesses.Commercial Banking anticipates

that net revenues will benefit from growth in treasury services and investment
banking fees,offset by margin compression on loans.
The business outlook varies for the respective consumer businesses.Card
Services anticipates modest growth in consumer spending and in card out-
standings.For RFS,Home Finance earnings are likely to weaken given a mar-

ket-driven decline in mortgage originations,neutralizing the expected earnings

increase in Consumer & Small Business Banking.The drop in revenue at Home

Finance should be mitigated by ongoing efforts to bring expenses in line with
lower expected origination volumes.Growth is expected to continue in

Consumer & Small Business Banking,with increases in core deposits and asso-

ciated revenue partially offset by ongoing investments in the branch distribu-

tion network.New branch openings should continue at a pace consistent with

or slightly above those of 2004.At the heritage Chase branches,expanded

hours and realigned compensation plans that tie incentives to branch perform-

ance are expected to provide improvements in productivity and incremental
net revenue growth.Earnings in Auto & Education Finance are expected to

remain under pressure,given the current competitive operating environment.

Across all RFS businesses,credit quality trends remain stable,with a slight

increase in credit costs likely in 2005.
The Corporate sector includes Private Equity,Treasury and the corporate sup-
port units.The revenue outlook for the Private Equity business is directly relat-

ed to the strength of equity market conditions in 2005.If current market con-

ditions persist,the Firm anticipates continued realization of private equity

gains;the Firm is not anticipating investment securities gains from the

Treasury portfolio in 2005.
The Provision for credit losses in 2005 is anticipated to be higher than in
2004,driven primarily by a return to a more normal level of provisioning for

credit losses in the wholesale businesses over time.The consumer Provision

for credit losses in 2005 should reflect increased balances,with generally sta-

ble credit quality.The Firm plans to implement higher minimum-payment

requirements in the Card Services business in the third quarter of 2005;it is

anticipated that this will increase delinquency and net charge-off rates,but

the magnitude of the impact is currently being assessed.The FirmÕs 2005 expenses should reflect the realization of $1.5 billion in
merger savings.These savings are expected to be offset by a projected 

$1.1 billion of incremental spending related to firmwide technology 
infrastructure,distribution enhancement,and product improvement and

expansion in Retail Financial Services,the Investment Bank and Asset &

Wealth Management.In addition,expenses will increase as a result of recent

acquisitions,such as Highbridge and Cazenove.
Management will seek to continue to strengthen the FirmÕs balance sheet
through rigorous financial and risk discipline.Any capital generated in excess

of the FirmÕs capital targets,and beyond that required to support anticipated

modest growth in assets and the underlying risks of the FirmÕs businesses,

including litigation risk,will create capital flexibility in 2005 with respect to

common stock repurchases and further investments in the FirmÕs businesses.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
22JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Consolidated results of operations
The following section provides a comparative discussion ofJPMorgan ChaseÕs consolidated results of operations on a reported

basis for the three-year period ended December 31, 2004. Factors
that are primarily related to a single business segment are discussed
in more detail within that business segment than they are in this
consolidated section. For a discussion of the Critical accounting
estimates used by the Firm that affect the Consolidatedresults of

operations, see pages 77Ð79 of this Annual Report.RevenueYear ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200420032002
Investment banking fees$3,537
$2,890$2,763
Trading revenue
3,6124,4272,675
Lending & deposit related fees2,6721,7271,674
Asset management,administration 
and commissions7,9675,9065,754
Securities/private equity gains 
1,8741,479817
Mortgage fees and related income1,004923988
Credit card income4,8402,4662,307
Other income830601458
Noninterest revenue
26,33620,41917,436
Net interest income
16,76112,96512,178
Total net revenue
$43,097
$33,384$29,614
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
2004 compared with 2003
Total net revenues,at $43.1 billion,rose by $9.7 billion or 29%,primarily due

to the Merger,which affected every category of Total net revenue.Additional

factors contributing to the revenue growth were higher consumer demand for
credit products and higher credit card charge volume,as well as strong retail

and wholesale deposit growth.Investment banking revenues increased as a

result of growth in global market volumes and market share gains.Revenue

also benefited from acquisitions and growth in assets under custody,under

management and under supervision,the result of global equity market 

appreciation and net asset inflows.Private equity gains were higher due to an

improved climate for investment sales.The discussion that follows highlights

factors other than the Merger that affected the 2004 versus 2003 comparison.The increase in Investment banking fees was driven by significant gains in
underwriting and advisory activities as a result of increased global market 

volumes and market share gains.Trading revenue declined by 18%,primarily

due to lower portfolio management results in fixed income and equities.For a

further discussion of Investment banking fees and Trading revenue,which are

primarily recorded in the IB,see the IB segment results on pages 30Ð32 of

this Annual Report.
Lending & deposit related fees were up from 2003 due to the Merger.The
rise was partially offset by lower service charges on deposits,as clients paid

for services with deposits,versus fees,due to rising interest rates.Throughout

2004,deposit balances grew in response to rising interest rates.
The increase in Asset management,administration and commissions was also
driven by the full-year impact of other acquisitions Ð such as EFS in January

2004,Bank OneÕs Corporate Trust business in November 2003 and JPMorgan
Retirement Plan Services in June 2003 Ð as well as the effect of global equity
market appreciation,net asset inflows and a better product mix.In addition,

a more active market for trading activities in 2004 resulted in higher broker-

age commissions.For additional information on these fees and commissions,

see the segment discussions for AWM on pages 45Ð46,TSS on pages 43Ð44

and RFS on pages 33Ð38 of this Annual Report.
Securities/private equity gains for 2004 rose from the prior year,primarily
fueled by the improvement in the FirmÕs private equity investment results.This

was offset by lower securities gains on the Treasury investment portfolio as a

result of lower volumes of securities sold,and lower gains realized on sales

due to higher interest rates;additionally,RFSÕs Home Finance business report-

ed losses in 2004 on available-for-sale (ÒAFSÓ) securities,as compared with

gains in 2003.For a further discussion of securities gains,see the RFS and

Corporate segment discussions on pages 33Ð38 and 47Ð48,respectively,of

this Annual Report.For a further discussion of Private equity gains,which are

primarily recorded in the FirmÕs Private Equity business,see the Corporate

segment discussion on pages 47Ð48 of this Annual Report.
Mortgage fees and related income rose as a result of higher servicing revenue;this improvement was partially offset by lower mortgage servicing rights

(ÒMSRsÓ) asset risk management results and prime mortgage production rev-
enue,and lower gains from sales and securitizations of subprime loans as a

result of managementÕs decision in 2004 to retain these loans.Mortgage fees

and related income excludes the impact of NII and securities gains related to
home mortgage activities.For a discussion of Mortgage fees and related

income,which is primarily recorded in RFSÕs Home Finance business,see the

Home Finance discussion on pages 34Ð36 of this Annual Report.
Credit card income increased from 2003 as a result of higher customer chargevolume,which resulted in increased interchange income,and higher credit

card servicing fees associated with the increase of $19.4 billion in average

securitized loans.The increases were partially offset by higher volume-driven

payments to partners and rewards expense.For a further discussion of Credit

card income,see CSÕs segment results on pages 39Ð40 of this Annual Report.
The increase in Other income from 2003 reflected gains on leveraged lease
transactions and higher net results from corporate and bank-owned life insur-

ance policies.These positive factors in 2004 were partially offset by gains on

sales of several nonstrategic businesses and real estate properties in 2003.
Net interest income rose from 2003 as growth in volumes of consumer loansand deposits,as well as wider spreads on deposits,contributed to higher net

interest income.These were partially offset by lower wholesale loan balances

in the IB and tighter spreads on loans,investment securities and trading

assets stemming from the rise in interest rates.The FirmÕs total average inter-

est-earning assets for 2004 were $744.1 billion,up $154.2 billion from

2003.Growth was also driven by higher levels of consumer loans.The net

interest yield on these assets,on a fully taxable-equivalent basis,was 2.27%

in 2004,an increase of 6 basis points from the prior year.
2003 compared with 2002
Total revenue for 2003 was $33.4 billion,up 13% from 2002.All businesses

benefited from improved economic conditions in 2003.In particular,the

lowÐinterest rate environment drove robust fixed income markets and an

unprecedented mortgage refinancing boom,which drove the growth in revenue.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
23Investment banking fees increased by $127 million,primarily due to growth
in IBÕs equity underwriting,which was up 49%,reflecting increases in market

share and underwriting volumes.This increase was partially offset by lower

advisory fees reflecting depressed levels of M&A activity.Trading revenue was

up $1.8 billion,or 65%,primarily due to strong client and portfolio manage-

ment revenue growth in fixed income and equity markets as a result of the

lowÐinterest rate environment,improvement in equity markets and volatility

in credit markets.For a further discussion of Investment banking fees and

Trading revenue,which are primarily recorded in the Investment Bank,see the

IB segment results on pages 30-32 of this Annual Report.
Lending & deposit related fees rose,the result of higher fees on standby letters
of credit,due to growth in transaction volume,and higher service charges on

deposits.These charges were driven by an increase in the payment of services

with fees,versus deposits,due to lower interest rates.
The increase in Asset management,administration and commissions was attrib-
utable to a more favorable environment for debt and equity activities,resulting

in higher fees for the custody,institutional trust,brokerage and other processing-

related businesses.Fees for investment management activities also increased

as a result of acquisitions in AWM,but these increases were partially offset by

institutional net fund outflows,which resulted in lower average assets under

management.Securities/private equity gains increased to $1.5 billion from $817 million in
2002,reflecting significant improvement in private equity gains.These gains

were partially offset by lower gains realized from the sale of securities in
Treasury and of AFS securities in RFSÕs Home Finance business,driven by

increasing interest rates beginning in the third quarter of 2003.For a further

discussion of private equity gains (losses),see the Corporate segment discus-

sion on pages 47Ð48 of this Annual Report.
Mortgage fees and related income declined by 7% in 2003,primarily due to
a decline in revenue associated with risk management of the MSR asset,
mortgage pipeline and mortgage warehouse;these were partially offset by

higher fees from origination and sales activity and other fees derived from
volume and market-share growth.For a discussion of Mortgage fees and

related income,which is primarily recorded in RFSÕs Home Finance business,

see the Home Finance discussion on pages 34Ð36 of this Annual Report.
Credit card income rose as a result of higher credit card servicing fees associated with the $6.7 billion growth in average securitized credit card

receivables.For a further discussion of Credit card income,see CSÕs segment

results on pages 39Ð40 of this Annual Report.
Other income rose,primarily from $200 million in gains on sales of securities
acquired in loan workouts (compared with $26 million in 2002),as well 

as gains on the sale of several nonstrategic businesses and real estate 

properties;these were partly offset by lower net results from corporate and

bank-owned life insurance policies.In addition,2002 included $73 million of

write-downs for several Latin American investments.
The increase in Net interest income reflected the positive impact of lower
interest rates on consumer loan originations,such as mortgages and auto-

mobile loans and leases and related funding costs.Net interest income was

partially reduced by a lower volume of wholesale loans and lower spreads 
on investment securities.The FirmÕs total average interest-earning assets in

2003 were $590 billion,up 6% from the prior year.The net interest yield on

these assets,on a fully taxable-equivalent basis,was 2.21%,the same as in

the prior year.
Provision for credit losses
2004 compared with 2003

The Provision for credit losses of $2.5 billion was up $1.0 billion,or 65%,com-

pared with the prior year.The impact of the Merger,and of accounting policy con-

formity charges of $858 million,were partially offset by releases in the allowance

for credit losses related to the wholesale loan portfolio,primarily due to improved

credit quality in the IB.Wholesale nonperforming loans decreased by 21% even

after the inclusion of Bank OneÕs loan portfolio.RFSÕs Provision for credit losses

benefited from a reduction in the allowance for credit losses related to the sale

of the $4 billion manufactured home loan portfolio and continued positive credit
quality trends in the home and auto finance businesses.The provision related to

the credit card portfolio grew by $919 million,principally due to the Merger.For

further information about the Provision for credit losses and the FirmÕs manage-

ment of credit risk,see the Credit risk management discussion on pages 57Ð69

of this Annual Report.
2003 compared with 2002
The 2003 Provision for credit losses was $2.8 billion lower than in 2002,

primarily reflecting continued improvement in the quality of the wholesale
loan portfolio and a higher volume of credit card securitizations.
Noninterest expense
Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200420032002
Compensation expense$14,506
$11,387$10,693
Occupancy expense2,0841,9121,606
Technology and communications expense
3,7022,8442,554
Professional & outside services 3,8622,8752,587
Marketing 
1,335710689
Other expense2,8591,6941,802
Amortization of intangibles946294323
Total noninterest expense 
before merger costs and 

litigation reserve charge
29,29421,71620,254
Merger costs1,365Ñ1,210
Litigation reserve charge3,7001001,300
Total noninterest expense
$34,359
$21,816$22,764
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
2004 compared with 2003
Noninterest expense was $34.4 billion in 2004,up $12.5 billion,or 57%,pri-

marily due to the Merger.Excluding $1.4 billion of Merger costs,and litiga-

tion reserve charges,Noninterest expenses would have been $29.3 billion,up

35%.In addition to the Merger and litigation charges,expenses increased

due to reinvestment in the lines of business,partially offset by merger-related

savings throughout the Firm.Each category of Noninterest expense was affect-

ed by the Merger.The discussion that follows highlights other factors which

affected the 2004 versus 2003 comparison.Compensation expense was up from 2003,primarily due to strategic invest-
ments in the IB and continuing expansion in RFS.These factors were partially

offset by ongoing efficiency improvements and merger-related savings

throughout the Firm,and a reduction in pension costs.The decline in pension

costs was mainly attributable to the increase in the expected return on plan

assets from a discretionary $1.1 billion contribution to the FirmÕs pension
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
24JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
safety measures.Also contributing to the increase were charges for unoccupied
excess real estate of $270 million;this compared with $120 million in 2002.
Technology and communications expense increased primarily due to a shift in
expenses:costs that were previously associated with Compensation and

Other expenses shifted,upon the commencement of the IBM outsourcing

agreement,to Technology and communications expense.Also contributing to

the increase were higher costs related to software amortization.For a further

discussion of the IBM outsourcing agreement,see Corporate on page 47 of

this Annual Report.
Professional & outside services rose,reflecting greater utilization of third-
party vendors for processing activities and higher legal costs associated with
various litigation and business-related matters.
Higher Marketing expense was driven by more robust campaigns for the
Home Finance business.
The decrease in Other expense was due partly to expense management initia-
tives,such as reduced allowances to expatriates and recruitment costs.
There were no Merger costs in 2003.In 2002,merger and restructuring costs
of $1.2 billion were for programs announced prior to January 1,2002.
The Firm added $100 million to the Enron-related litigation reserve in 2003 to
supplement a $1.3 billion reserve initially recorded in 2002.The 2002 reserve

was established to cover Enron-related matters,as well as certain other mate-

rial litigation,proceedings and investigations in which the Firm is involved.
Income tax expenseThe FirmÕs Income before income tax expense,Income tax expense and 

effective tax rate were as follows for each of the periods indicated:
Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except rate)
20042003 2002Income before income tax expense$6,194
$10,028$2,519
Income tax expense 
1,7283,309856
Effective tax rate
27.9%33.0%34.0%
(a) 2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of 
heritage JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage 

JPMorgan Chase only.
2004 compared with 2003
The reduction in the effective tax rate for 2004,as compared with 2003,was

the result of various factors,including lower reported pre-tax income,a higher

level of business tax credits,and changes in the proportion of income subject

to federal,state and local taxes,partially offset by purchase accounting

adjustments related to leveraged lease transactions.The Merger costs and

accounting policy conformity adjustments recorded in 2004,and the

Litigation reserve charge recorded in the second quarter of 2004,reflected a

tax benefit at a 38% marginal tax rate,contributing to the reduction in the

effective tax rate compared with 2003.
2003 compared with 2002
The effective tax rate decline was principally attributable to changes in the

proportion of income subject to state and local taxes.
plan in April 2004,partially offset by changes in actuarial assumptions for

2004 compared with 2003.For a detailed discussion of pension and other

postretirement benefit costs,see Note 6 on pages 92Ð95 of this Annual Report.
The increase in Occupancy expense was partly offset by lower charges for
excess real estate,which were $103 million in 2004,compared with $270

million in 2003.Technology and communications expense was higher than in the prior year as
a result of higher costs associated with greater use of outside vendors,prima-

rily IBM,to support the global infrastructure requirements of the Firm.After

the Merger,JPMorgan Chase decided to terminate its outsourcing agreement

with IBM,effective December 31,2004.For a further discussion regarding 

the IBM outsourcing agreement,see the Corporate segment discussion on

page 47 of this Annual Report.
Professional & outside services rose due to higher legal costs associated withpending litigation matters,as well as outside services stemming from recent

acquisitions,primarily EFS,and growth in business at TSS and CS.
Marketing expense rose as CS initiated a more robust marketing campaign
during 2004.Other expense was up due to software impairment write-offs of $224 million,
primarily in TSS and Corporate,compared with $60 million in 2003;higher

accruals for non-Enron-related litigation cases;and the impact of growth in

business volume.These were partly offset by a $57 million settlement related

to the Enron surety bond litigation.For a discussion of Amortization of intangibles and Merger costs,refer to
Note 15 and Note 8 on pages 109Ð111 and 98,respectively.
In June of 2004,JPMorgan Chase recorded a $3.7 billion (pre-tax) addition to
the Litigation reserve.While the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain,

the addition reflected managementÕs assessment of the appropriate reserve

level in light of all then-known information.By comparison,2003 included a

charge of $100 million for Enron-related litigation.2003 compared with 2002
Total Noninterest expense was $21.8 billion,down 4% from the prior year.

In 2002,the Firm recorded $1.3 billion of charges,principally for Enron-

related litigation,and $1.2 billion for merger and restructuring costs related

to programs announced prior to January 1,2002.Excluding these costs,

expenses rose by 8% in 2003,reflecting higher performance-related incen-

tives,increased costs related to stock-based compensation and pension and

other postretirement expenses;and higher occupancy expenses.The Firm

began expensing stock options in 2003.The increase in Compensation expense principally reflected higher perform-
ance-related incentives,as well as higher pension and other postretirement

benefit costs,primarily as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions.The

increase pertaining to incentives included $266 million as a result of adopting
SFAS 123,and $120 million from the reversal in 2002 of previously accrued

expenses for certain forfeitable key employee stock awards.Total compensa-

tion expenses declined as a result of the transfer,beginning April 1,2003,of

2,800 employees to IBM in connection with the aforementioned technology
outsourcing agreement.The increase in Occupancy expense reflected costs of additional leased space
in midtown Manhattan and in the South and Southwest regions of the United
States,higher real estate taxes in New York City and the cost of enhanced
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
25The Firm prepares its Consolidated financial statements using accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America (ÒU.S.GAAPÓ);

these financial statements appear on pages 84Ð87 of this Annual Report.That

presentation,which is referred to as Òreported basis,Óprovides the reader

with an understanding of the FirmÕs results that can be consistently tracked

from year to year and enables a comparison of the FirmÕs performance with

other companiesÕ U.S.GAAP financial statements.
In addition to analyzing the FirmÕs results on a reported basis,management
reviews line-of-business results on an Òoperating basis,Ówhich is a non-

GAAP financial measure.The definition of operating basis starts with the

reported U.S.GAAP results.In the case of the IB,operating basis noninterest

revenue includes,in Trading revenue,net interest income related to trading

activities.Trading activities generate revenues,which are recorded for U.S.

GAAP purposes in two line items on the income statement:Trading revenue,

which includes the mark-to-market gains or losses on trading positions,and

Net interest income,which includes the interest income or expense related to

those positions.Combining both the trading revenue and related net interest

income enables management to evaluate the IBÕs trading activities,by consid-

ering all revenue related to these activities,and facilitates operating compar-

isons to other competitors.The following table reclassifies the FirmÕs trading-

related Net interest income to Trading revenue.
Trading-related Net interest income reclassification
Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200420032002
Net interest income Ð reported$16,761
$12,965$12,178
Trading-related NII
(1,950)(2,129)(1,880)
Net interest income Ð adjusted$14,811
$10,836$10,298
Trading revenue Ð reported
(b)$3,612
$4,427$2,675
Trading-related NII
1,9502,1291,880
Trading revenue Ð adjusted
(b)$5,562
$6,556$4,555
(a) 2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of 
heritage JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage 

JPMorgan Chase only.
(b) Reflects Trading revenue at the Firm level.The majority of Trading revenue is recorded in
the Investment Bank.In addition,segment results reflect revenues on a tax-equivalent basis.The
tax-equivalent gross-up for each business segment is based upon the level,

type and tax jurisdiction of the earnings and assets within each business 
segment.Operating revenue for the Investment Bank includes tax-equivalent

adjustments for income tax credits primarily related to affordable housing
investments as well as tax-exempt income from municipal bond investments.

Information prior to the Merger has not been restated to conform with this
new presentation.The amount of the tax-equivalent gross-up for each busi-

ness segment is eliminated within the Corporate segment.For a further dis-

cussion of trading-related revenue and tax-equivalent adjustments made to

operating revenue,see the IB on pages 30Ð32 of this Annual Report.
In the case of Card Services,operating or managed basis excludes the impact
of credit card securitizations on revenue,the Provision for credit losses,net

charge-offs and loan receivables.Through securitization the Firm transforms 

a portion of its credit card receivables into securities,which are sold to

investors.The credit card receivables are removed from the consolidated bal-

ance sheet through the transfer of principal credit card receivables to a trust,

and the sale of undivided interests to investors that entitle the investors to
specific cash flows generated from the credit card receivables.The Firm

retains the remaining undivided interests as sellerÕs interests,which are

recorded in Loans on the Consolidated balance sheet.A gain or loss on the

sale of credit card receivables to investors is recorded in Other income.

Securitization also affects the FirmÕs consolidated income statement by reclas-

sifying as credit card income,interest income,certain fee revenue,and recov-

eries in excess of interest paid to the investors,gross credit losses and other

trust expenses related to the securitized receivables.For a reconciliation of

reported to managed basis of Card Services results,see page 40 of this

Annual Report.For information regarding loans and residual interests sold

and securitized,see Note 13 on pages 103Ð106 of this Annual Report.

JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of Òmanaged receivablesÓto evaluate the

credit performance and overall financial performance of the underlying credit

card loans,both sold and not sold;as the same borrower is continuing to use

the credit card for ongoing charges,a borrowerÕs credit performance will

affect both the loan receivables sold under SFAS 140 and those not sold.

Thus,in its disclosures regarding managed loan receivables,JPMorgan Chase

treats the sold receivables as if they were still on the balance sheet in order

to disclose the credit performance (such as net charge-off rates) of the entire

managed credit card portfolio.In addition,Card Services operations are fund-

ed,operating results are evaluated and decisions about allocating resources

such as employees and capital are based on managed financial information.Finally,operating basis excludes Merger costs,the Litigation reserve charge
and accounting policy conformity adjustments related to the Merger,as man-

agement believes these items are not part of the FirmÕs normal daily business

operations (and,therefore,are not indicative of trends) and do not provide

meaningful comparisons with other periods.
Management uses certain non-GAAP financial measures at the segment level.Management believes these non-GAAP financial measures provide information
to investors in understanding the underlying operational performance and

trends of the particular business segment and facilitate a comparison of the
business segment with the performance of competitors.
Explanation and reconciliation of the FirmÕs use of non-GAAP financial measures
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
26JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Year ended December 31,
(e)20042003(in millions)ReportedSecuritizedManagedReportedSecuritizedManaged
Loans Ð Period-end
$402,114$70,795$472,909
$214,766$34,856$249,622
Total assets Ð average 
962,55651,0841,013,640
775,97832,365808,343
(e) 2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.All other 
periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
The following summary table provides a reconciliation from the FirmÕs reported GAAP results to operating results:
(Table continues on next page)
Year ended December 31,
(a)20042003(in millions,except ReportedCreditSpecialOperatingReportedCreditSpecialOperating
per share and ratio data)resultscard
(b)itemsbasisresultscard
(b)itemsbasis
RevenueInvestment banking fees$3,537$Ñ$Ñ$3,537
$2,890$Ñ$Ñ$2,890
Trading revenue
(c)5,562ÑÑ5,562
6,556ÑÑ6,556
Lending & deposit related fees2,672ÑÑ2,672
1,727ÑÑ1,727
Asset management,administration and 

commissions7,967ÑÑ7,967
5,906ÑÑ5,906
Securities/private 
equity gains 1,874ÑÑ1,874
1,479ÑÑ1,479
Mortgage fees and related income1,004ÑÑ1,004
923ÑÑ923
Credit card income4,840(2,267)Ñ2,573
2,466(1,379)Ñ1,087
Other income830(86)118
(1)862601(71)Ñ530
Noninterest revenue
(c)28,286(2,353)11826,051
22,548(1,450)Ñ21,098
Net interest income
(c)14,8115,251Ñ20,062
10,8363,320Ñ14,156
Total net revenue
43,0972,89811846,113
33,3841,870Ñ35,254
Provision for credit losses2,5442,898(858)
(2)4,5841,5401,870Ñ3,410
Noninterest expense
Merger costs1,365Ñ(1,365)
(3)ÑÑÑÑÑ
Litigation reserve charge3,700Ñ(3,700)
(4)Ñ100ÑÑ100
All other noninterest expense29,294ÑÑ29,294
21,716ÑÑ21,716
Total noninterest 
expense34,359Ñ(5,065)29,294
21,816ÑÑ21,816
Income before income  
tax expense6,194Ñ6,04112,235
10,028ÑÑ10,028
Income tax expense1,728Ñ2,296
(6)4,0243,309ÑÑ3,309
Net income$4,466$Ñ$3,745$8,211
$6,719$Ñ$Ñ$6,719
Earnings per share Ð diluted
$1.55$Ñ$1.31$2.86
$3.24$Ñ$Ñ$3.24
Return on common equity6%Ñ5%11%
16%ÑÑ16%
Return on equity Ð goodwill(d)9Ñ716
19ÑÑ19
Return on assets0.46NMNM0.81
0.87NMNM0.83
Overhead ratio
80%NMNM64%
65%NMNM62%
(a) 2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.All other 
periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)The impact of credit card securitizations affects CS.See pages 39Ð40 of this Annual Report for further information.

(c)Includes the reclassification of trading-related Net interest income to Trading revenue.See page 25 of this Annual Report fo
r further information.(d)Net income applicable to common stock/Total average common equity (net of goodwill).The Firm uses return on equity less good
will,a non-GAAP financial measure,to evaluate the operating per-
formance of the Firm.The Firm utilizes this measure to facilitate operating comparisons to other competitors.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
272002ReportedSecuritizedManaged
$216,364$30,722$247,086
733,35726,519759,876
Special ItemsThe reconciliation of the FirmÕs reported results to operating results in the
accompanying table sets forth the impact of several special items incurred

by the Firm in 2002 and 2004.These special items are excluded from

Operating earnings,as management believes these items are not part of

the FirmÕs normal daily business operations and,therefore,are not indica-

tive of trends and do not provide meaningful comparisons with other
periods.These items include Merger costs,significant litigation charges,

charges to conform accounting policies and other items,each of which is

described below:(1) Other income in 2004 reflects $118 million of other accounting policy
conformity adjustments.
(2) The Provision for credit losses in 2004 reflects $858 million of
accounting policy conformity adjustments,consisting of a $1.4 billion

charge related to the decertification of the sellerÕs interest in credit

card securitizations,partially offset by a benefit of $584 million relat-

ed to conforming wholesale and consumer credit provision method-
ologies for the combined Firm.(3) Merger costs of $1.4 billion in 2004 reflect costs associated with the
Merger;the $1.2 billion of charges in 2002 reflect merger and

restructuring costs associated with programs announced prior to

January 1,2002.
(4) Significant litigation charges of $3.7 billion and $1.3 billion were
taken in 2004 and 2002,respectively.
(5) All Other noninterest expense in 2002 reflects a $98 million charge
for excess real estate capacity related to facilities in the West Coast

region of the United States.
(6) Income tax expense in 2004 and 2002 of $2.3 billion and $887 mil-
lion,respectively,represents the tax effect of the above items.
Formula Definitions for Non-GAAP Metrics
The table below reflects the formulas used to calculate both the following
GAAP and non-GAAP measures:Return on common equityReportedNet income* / Average common equity

OperatingOperating earnings* / Average common equity
Return on equity - goodwillReportedNet income* / Average common equity less goodwill

OperatingOperating earnings* / Average common equity less goodwill
Return on assetsReportedNet income / Average assets

OperatingOperating earnings / Average managed assets
Overhead ratio
ReportedTotal noninterest expense / Total net revenue

OperatingTotal noninterest expense / Total net revenue
* Represents earnings applicable to common stock(Table continued from previous page)
2002ReportedCreditSpecialOperating
resultscard
(b)itemsbasis
$2,763$Ñ$Ñ$2,763
4,555ÑÑ4,555
1,674ÑÑ1,674
5,754ÑÑ5,754
817ÑÑ817

988ÑÑ988
2,307(1,341)Ñ966
458(36)Ñ422
19,316(1,377)Ñ17,939
10,2982,816Ñ13,114

29,6141,439Ñ31,053
4,3311,439Ñ5,770
1,210Ñ(1,210)
(3)Ñ1,300Ñ(1,300)
(4)Ñ20,254Ñ(98)
(5)20,15622,764Ñ(2,608)20,156
2,519Ñ2,6085,127
856Ñ887
(6)1,743$1,663$Ñ$1,721$3,384
$0.80$Ñ$0.86$1.66
4%Ñ4%8%
5Ñ510
0.23NMNM0.45
77%NMNM65%
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
28JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Business segment results
The Firm is managed on a line-of-business basis.The business segment finan-
cial results presented reflect the current organization of JPMorgan Chase.

There are six major reportable business segments:the Investment Bank,Retail

Financial Services,Card Services,Commercial Banking,Treasury & Securities

Services and Asset & Wealth Management,as well as a Corporate segment.
The segments are based on the products and services provided,or the type of
customer served,and they reflect the manner in which financial information is

currently evaluated by management.Results of these lines of business are

presented on an operating basis.
Segment results Ð Operating basis
(a)(b)(Table continues on next page)
Year ended December 31,Total net revenueNoninterest expense
(in millions,except ratios)
20042003Change
20042003Change
Investment Bank$12,605
$12,684(1)%
$8,696
$8,3025%
Retail Financial Services10,7917,42845
6,8254,47153
Card Services10,7456,14475
3,8832,17878
Commercial Banking2,3741,35276
1,34382263
Treasury & Securities Services
4,8573,60835
4,1133,02836
Asset & Wealth Management
4,1792,97041
3,1332,48626
Corporate
5621,068(47)
1,301529146
Total 
$46,113
$35,25431%
$29,294
$21,81634%
(a)Represents the reported results excluding the impact of credit card securitizations and,in 2004,Merger costs,the significant
 litigation reserve charges and accounting policy conformity adjustments
related to the Merger.
(b)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflec
ts the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(c)As a result of the Merger,new capital allocation methodologies were implemented during the third quarter of 2004.The capital
 allocated to each line of business considers several factors:stand-
alone peer comparables,economic risk measures and regulatory capital requirements.In addition,effective with the third quarter 
of 2004,goodwill,as well as the associated capital,is only allocated
to the Corporate line of business.Prior periods have not been revised to reflect these new methodologies and are not comparable
 to the presentation beginning in the third quarter of 2004.
In connection with the Merger,business segment reporting was realigned to
reflect the new business structure of the combined Firm.Treasury was trans-

ferred from the IB into Corporate.The segment formerly known as Chase

Financial Services had been comprised of Chase Home Finance,Chase

Cardmember Services,Chase Auto Finance,Chase Regional Banking and

Chase Middle Market;as a result of the Merger,this segment is now called

Retail Financial Services and is comprised of Home Finance,Auto & Education

Finance,Consumer & Small Business Banking and Insurance.Chase Middle

Market moved into Commercial Banking,and Chase Cardmember Services is

now its own segment called Card Services.TSS remains unchanged.

Investment Management & Private Banking has been renamed Asset &
Wealth Management.JPMorgan Partners,which formerly was a stand-alone
business segment,was moved into Corporate.Corporate is currently com-

prised of Private Equity (JPMorgan Partners and ONE Equity Partners),

Treasury,as well as corporate support areas,which include Central Technology

and Operations,Internal Audit,Executive Office,Finance,General Services,

Human Resources,Marketing & Communications,Office of the General

Counsel,Real Estate and Business Services,Risk Management and Strategy

and Development.Segment results for periods prior to July 1,2004,reflect heritage JPMorgan
ChaseÐonly results and have been restated to reflect the current business
segment organization and reporting classifications.
JPMorgan 
Partners
Asset & Wealth
ManagementBusinesses:¥Treasury Services
¥Investor Services

¥Institutional Trust
ServicesJPMorgan Chase
Treasury &
Securities ServicesBusinesses:¥Middle Market
Banking¥Corporate Banking

¥Commercial Real
Estate¥Business Credit

¥Equipment Leasing
Commercial
BankingJPMorgan is the brand name.
Chase is the brand name.
Product types:
¥Investment banking:
- Advisory- Debt and equityunderwriting¥Market-making
and trading:- Fixed income 
- Equities
- Credit¥Corporate lending
Investment BankRetail FinancialServicesCard
ServicesBusinesses:¥Investment
Management- Institutional
- Retail¥Private Banking

¥Private Client
ServicesBusinesses:¥Credit Card
¥Merchant Acquiring
Businesses:¥Home Finance
¥Consumer & Small
Business Banking¥Auto & Education
Finance
¥Insurance
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
29firms were aligned to provide consistency across the business segments.In
addition,expenses related to certain corporate functions,technology and

operations ceased to be allocated to the business segments and are retained

in Corporate.These retained expenses include parent company costs that would

not be incurred if the segments were stand-alone businesses;adjustments to

align certain corporate staff,technology and operations allocations with market

prices;and other one-time items not aligned with the business segments.
Capital allocationEach business segment is allocated capital by taking into consideration stand-

alone peer comparisons,economic risk measures and regulatory capital

requirements.The amount of capital assigned to each business is referred to

as equity.Effective with the third quarter of 2004,new methodologies were

implemented to calculate the amount of capital allocated to each segment.
As part of the new methodology,goodwill,as well as the associated capital,

is allocated solely to Corporate.Although U.S.GAAP requires the allocation of

goodwill to the business segments for impairment testing (see Note 15 on
page 109 of this Annual Report),the Firm has elected not to include goodwill

or the related capital in each of the business segments for management
reporting purposes.See the Capital management section on page 50 of this

Annual Report for a discussion of the equity framework.
Credit reimbursementTSS reimburses the IB for credit portfolio exposures the IB manages on behalf
of clients the segments share.At the time of the Merger,the reimbursement

methodology was revised to be based on pre-tax earnings,net of the cost of

capital related to those exposures.Prior to the Merger,the credit reimburse-

ment was based on pre-tax earnings,plus the allocated capital associated

with the shared clients.
Tax-equivalent adjustments
Segment results reflect revenues on a tax-equivalent basis for segment 

reportingpurposes.Refer to page 25 of this Annual Report for additional

details.
Description of business segment reporting methodology 
Results of the business segments are intended to reflect each segment as if it
were essentially a stand-alone business.The management reporting process

that derives these results allocates income and expense using market-based

methodologies.At the time of the Merger,several of the allocation method-

ologies were revised,as noted below.The changes became effective 

July 1,2004.As prior periods have not been revised to reflect these new

methodologies,they are not comparable to the presentation of periods begin-

ning with the third quarter of 2004.Further,the Firm intends to continue to

assess the assumptions,methodologies and reporting reclassifications used

for segment reporting,and it is anticipated that further refinements may be

implemented in future periods.
Revenue sharingWhen business segments join efforts to sell products and services to the
FirmÕs clients,the participating business segments agree to share revenues

from those transactions.These revenue sharing agreements were revised on

the Merger date to provide consistency across the lines of businesses.
Funds transfer pricingFunds transfer pricing (ÒFTPÓ) is used to allocate interest income and interest

expense to each line of business and also serves to transfer interest rate risk

to Corporate.While business segments may periodically retain interest rate

exposures related to customer pricing or other business-specific risks,the bal-

ance of the FirmÕs overall interest rate risk exposure is included and managed

in Corporate.In the third quarter of 2004,FTP was revised to conform the

policies of the combined firms.
Expense allocationWhere business segments use services provided by support units within the
Firm,the costs of those support units are allocated to the business segments.

Those expenses are allocated based on their actual cost,or the lower of actual

cost or market cost,as well as upon usage of the services provided.Effective

with the third quarter of 2004,the cost allocation methodologies of the heritage
Segment results Ð Operating basis
(a)(b)(Table continued from previous page)
Year ended December 31,Operating earningsReturn on common equity Ð goodwill
(c)(in millions,except ratios)
20042003Change
20042003Investment Bank$2,948
$2,8055%
17%15%Retail Financial Services2,1991,54742
2437Card Services1,27468387
1720Commercial Banking60830798
2929Treasury & Securities Services
4404224
1715Asset & Wealth Management
681287137
175Corporate
61668(91)
NMNMTotal 
$8,211
$6,71922%
16%19%ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
30JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
revenue was $1.9 billion,$2.1 billion and $1.9 billion for 2004,2003 and 2002,respectively.
(c)Total net revenue includes tax-equivalent adjustments,primarily due to tax-exempt income
from municipal bond investments,and income tax credits related to affordable housing invest-

ments of $274 million,$117 million and $112 million for 2004,2003,and 2002,respectively.
(d)TSS is charged a credit reimbursement related to certain exposures managed within the 
IB credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS.For a further discussion,see Credit

reimbursement on page 29 of this Annual Report.
2004 compared with 2003
In 2004,Operating earnings of $2.9 billion were up 5% from the prior year.

Increases in Investment banking fees,a reduction in the Provision for credit

losses and the impact of the Merger were partially offset by decreases in
trading revenues and net interest income.Return on equity was 17%.
Total net revenue of $12.6 billion was relatively flat from the prior year,
primarily due to lower Fixed income markets revenues and total Credit 

portfolio revenues,offset by increases in Investment banking fees and the

impact of the Merger.The decline in revenue from Fixed income markets was

driven by weaker portfolio management trading results,mainly in the interest

rate markets business.Total credit portfolio revenues were down due to lower

net interest income and lending fees,primarily driven by lower loan balances;

these were partially offset by higher trading revenue due to more severe credit

spread tightening in 2003 relative to 2004.Investment banking fees increased

by 24% over the prior year,driven by significant gains in advisory and debt

underwriting.The advisory gains were a result of increased global market 

volumes and market share,while the higher underwriting fees were due to

stronger client activity.
The Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $640 million,compared with 
a benefit of $181 million in 2003.The improvement in the provision was the

result of a $633 million decline in net charge-offs,partially offset by lower

reductions in the allowance for credit losses in 2004 relative to 2003.For

additional information,see Credit risk management on pages 57Ð69 of this

Annual Report.For the year ended December 31,2004,Noninterest expense was up 5% from
the prior year.The increase from 2003 was driven by higher Compensation

expense,including strategic investments and the impact of the Merger.
2003 compared with 2002
Operating earnings of $2.8 billion were up significantly over 2002.The increase in

earnings was driven by a significant decline in the Provision for credit losses,

coupled with strong growth in fixed income and equity markets revenues.
Total net revenue was $12.7 billion,an increase of $2.0 billion from the prior
year.The low interest rate environment,improvement in equity markets and

volatility in credit markets produced increased client and portfolio management

revenue in fixed income and equities.Market share gains in equity underwrit-

ing contributed to the increase in Investment banking fees over 2002.The Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $181 million in 2003,com-
pared with a cost of $2.4 billion in 2002,reflecting improvement in the over-

all credit quality of the wholesale portfolio and the restructuring of several

nonperforming wholesale loans.
Noninterest expense increased by 6% from 2002,reflecting higher incentives
related to improved financial performance and the impact of expensing stock
options.Noncompensation expenses were up 10% from the prior year due to

increases in technology and occupancy costs.
Investment BankJPMorgan Chase is one of the worldÕs leading investment
banks,as evidenced by the breadth of its client relationships 

and product capabilities.The Investment Bank has extensive

relationships with corporations,financial institutions,govern-

ments and institutional investors worldwide.The Firm provides

a full range of investment banking products and services,

including advising on corporate strategy and structure,capital

raising in equity and debt markets,sophisticated risk manage-

ment,and market-making in cash securities and derivative

instruments in all major capital markets.The Investment Bank

also commits the FirmÕs own capital to proprietary investing

and trading activities.
As a result of the Merger,the Treasury business has been transferred to 
the Corporate sector,and prior periods have been restated to reflect the 

reorganization.Selected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except ratios)
200420032002
RevenueInvestment banking fees:Advisory$938
$640$743
Equity underwriting781699470
Debt underwriting1,8531,5321,494
Total investment banking fees
3,5722,8712,707
Trading-related revenue:
(b)Fixed income and other5,0086,0164,607
Equities42755620
Credit portfolio6(186)(143)
Total trading-related revenue
5,4416,3864,484
Lending & deposit related fees539440394
Asset management,administration 
and commissions1,4001,2171,244
Other income328103(125)
Noninterest revenue 11,28011,0178,704
Net interest income
(b)1,3251,6671,978
Total net revenue
(c)12,60512,68410,682
Provision for credit losses(640)(181)2,392
Credit reimbursement from (to) TSS
(d)90(36)(82)
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense4,8934,4624,298
Noncompensation expense3,8033,8403,500
Total noninterest expense
8,6968,3027,798
Operating earnings before 
income tax expense4,6394,527410
Income tax expense (benefit)1,6911,722(3)
Operating earnings
$2,948
$2,805$413
Financial ratios
ROE17%15%2%
ROA0.620.640.10
Overhead ratio
696573
Compensation expense as % of total net revenue393540
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Trading revenue,on a reported basis,excludes the impact of Net interest income related to
IBÕs trading activities;this income is recorded in Net interest income.However,in this presen-

tation,to assess the profitability of IBÕs trading business,the Firm combines these revenues

for segment reporting purposes.The amount reclassified from Net interest income to Trading
The amount of adjusted assets is presented to assist the reader in comparing the IBÕs asset
and capital levels to other investment banks in the securities industry.Asset-to-equity lever-

age ratios are commonly used as one measure to assess a companyÕs capital adequacy.The

IB believes an adjusted asset amount,which excludes certain assets considered to have a

low risk profile,provides a more meaningful measure of balance sheet leverage in the securi-

ties industry.See Capital management on pages 50Ð52 of this Annual Report for a discus-

sion of the FirmÕs overall capital adequacy and capital management.
(d)Nonperforming loans include loans held for sale of $2 million,$30 million and $16 million
as of December 31,2004,2003 and 2002,respectively.These amounts are not includedin

the allowance coverage ratios.
(e)Nonperforming loans exclude loans held for sale of $351 million,$22 million and 
$2 million as of December 31,2004,2003,and 2002,respectively,that were purchased 

as part of the IBÕs proprietary investing activities.
(f)Includes all mark-to-market trading activities,plus available-for-sale securities held for 
IB investing purposes.
(g)Includes VAR on derivative credit valuation adjustments,credit valuation adjustment hedges
and mark-to-market loan hedges,which are reported in Trading revenue.This VAR does not

include the accrual loan portfolio,which is not marked to market.
NA-Data for 2002 is not available on a comparable basis.
According to Thomson Financial,in 2004,the Firm improved its ranking in
U.S.announced M&A from #8 to #1,and Global announced M&A from #4 

to #2,while increasing its market share significantly.The FirmÕs U.S.initial

public offerings ranking improved from #16 to #4,with the Firm moving to

#6 from #4 in the U.S.Equity & Equity-related category.The Firm maintained

its #1 ranking in U.S.syndicated loans,with a 32% market share,and its #3

position in Global Debt,Equity and Equity-related.
Market shares and rankings
(a)200420032002
Market MarketMarket
December 31,ShareRankingsShareRankingsShareRankings
Global debt,equity and 
equity-related7%# 3
8%# 38%#3
Global syndicated loans20# 1
20# 126#1
Global long-term debt7# 2
8# 28#2
Global equity and equity-related6# 6
8# 44#8
Global announced M&A26# 2
16# 414#5
U.S.debt,equity and equity-related
8# 5
9# 310#2
U.S.syndicated loans
32# 1
35# 139#1
U.S.long-term debt
12# 2
10# 313#2
U.S.equity and equity-related
8# 6
11# 46#6
U.S.announced M&A
33# 1
13# 814#7
(a) Sourced from Thomson Financial Securities data.Global announced M&A is based on 
rank value;all other rankings are based on proceeds,with full credit to each book

manager/equal if joint.Because of joint assignments,market share of all participants 

will add up to more than 100%.Market share and rankings are presented on a 

combined basis for all periods presented,reflecting the merger of JPMorgan Chase 

and Bank One.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
31Selected metricsYear ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except headcount and ratios)
200420032002
Revenue by businessInvestment banking fees$3,572
$2,871$2,707
Fixed income markets
6,3146,9875,450
Equities markets
1,4911,4061,018
Credit portfolio1,2281,4201,507
Total net revenue
$12,605
$12,684$10,682
Revenue by region
Americas$6,870
$7,250$6,360
Europe/Middle East/Africa4,0824,3313,215
Asia/Pacific
1,6531,1031,107
Total net revenue
$12,605
$12,684$10,682
Selected balance sheet (average)
Total assets
$473,121
$436,488$429,866
Trading assetsÐdebt and 
equity instruments173,086156,408134,191
Trading assetsÐderivatives receivables
58,73583,36170,831
Loans(b)42,61845,03755,998
Adjusted assets(c)393,646370,776359,324
Equity17,29018,35019,134
Headcount17,47814,69115,012
Credit data and quality statistics
Net charge-offs$47
$680$1,627
Nonperforming assets:Nonperforming loans(d)(e)9541,7083,328Other nonperforming assets242370408
Allowance for loan losses
1,5471,0551,878
Allowance for lending related commitments
305242324
Net charge-off rate
(b)0.13%1.65%3.15%
Allowance for loan losses to average loans
(b)4.272.563.64
Allowance for loan losses to 
nonperforming loans(d)1636357
Nonperforming loans to average loans
2.243.795.94
Market riskÐaverage trading and
credit portfolioVAR
Trading activities:
Fixed income(f)$74
$61NA
Foreign exchange
1717NA
Equities2818NA
Commodities and other98NA
Diversification(43)(39)NA
Total trading VAR
8565NA
Credit portfolio VAR
(g)1418NA
Diversification(9)(14)NA
Total trading and 
credit portfolio VAR
$90
$69NA
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)The year-to-date average loans held for sale are $6.4 billion,$3.8 billion and $4.3 billion
for 2004,2003 and 2002,respectively.These amounts are not included in the allowance

coverage ratios and net charge-off rates.The 2002 net charge-offs and net charge-off rate

exclude charge-offs of $212 million taken on lending-related commitments.
(c)Adjusted assets equals total average assets minus (1) securities purchased under resale
agreements and securities borrowed less securities sold,not yet purchased;(2) assets of

variable interest entities (VIEs) consolidated under FIN 46R;(3) cash and securities segre-

gated and on deposit for regulatory and other purposes;and (4) goodwill and intangibles.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
32JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Composition of revenue
AssetYear endedTrading-Lending & management,

December 31,(a)InvestmentrelateddepositadministrationOtherTotal net
(in millions)banking feesrevenuerelated feesand commissionsincomeNIIrevenue
2004Investment banking fees$3,572$Ñ$
Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$3,572
Fixed income markets
Ñ5,0081912873045246,314
Equities markets
Ñ427Ñ1,076(95)831,491
Credit portfolioÑ6348371197181,228
Total
$3,572$5,441$539$1,400$328$1,325$12,605
2003 Investment banking fees$2,871$Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$2,871

Fixed income marketsÑ6,016107331844496,987

Equities marketsÑ556Ñ851(85)841,406
Credit portfolioÑ(186)333351041,1341,420
Total$2,871$6,386$440$1,217$103$1,667$12,684
2002 Investment banking fees$2,707$Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$2,707

Fixed income marketsÑ4,60775295(20)4935,450

Equities marketsÑ20Ñ911(53)1401,018
Credit portfolioÑ(143)31938(52)1,3451,507
Total$2,707$4,484$394$1,244$(125)$1,978$10,682
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.All other p
eriods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
IBÕs revenues are comprised of the following:
Investment banking feesincludes advisory,equity underwriting,bond underwriting and loan syndication fees.
Fixed income markets
includes client and portfolio management revenue related to both market-making and proprietary risk-taking across global fixed 
incomemarkets,including government and corporate debt,foreign exchange,interest rate and commodities markets.
Equities markets
includes client and portfolio management revenue related to market-making and proprietary risk-taking across global equity prod
ucts,
including cash instruments,derivatives and convertibles.
Credit portfolio revenue 
includes Net interest income,fees and loan sale activity for IBÕs credit portfolio.Credit portfolio revenue also includes gains
 or losses
on securities received as part of a loan restructuring,and changes in the credit valuation adjustment (ÒCVAÓ),which is the comp
onent of the fair value of a
derivative that reflects the credit quality of the counterparty.See page 63 of the Credit risk management section of this Annua
l Report for a further discussionof the CVA.Credit portfolio revenue also includes the results of risk management related to the FirmÕs lending and derivative a
ctivities.See pages 64Ð65 of the
Credit risk management section of this Annual Report for a further discussion on credit derivatives.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
33Retail Financial ServicesRFS includes Home Finance,Consumer & Small Business Banking,
Auto & Education Finance and Insurance.Through this group of

businesses,the Firm provides consumers and small businesses

with a broad range of financial products and services including

deposits,investments,loans and insurance.Home Finance is a

leading provider of consumer real estate loan products and is

one of the largest originators and servicers of home mortgages.

Consumer & Small Business Banking offers one of the largest

branch networks in the United States,covering 17 states with

2,508 branches and 6,650 automated teller machines (ÒATMsÓ).

Auto & Education Finance is the largest bank originator of 

automobile loans as well as a top provider of loans for college

students.Through its Insurance operations,the Firm sells and

underwrites an extensive range of financial protection products

and investment alternatives,including life insurance,annuities

and debt protection products.
Selected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except ratios)
200420032002
RevenueLending & deposit related fees$1,013
$486$509
Asset management,administration 
and commissions849357368
Securities/private equity gains (losses)
(83)381493
Mortgage fees and related income1,037905982
Credit card income23010791
Other income31(28)82
Noninterest revenue3,0772,2082,525
Net interest income
7,7145,2203,823
Total net revenue
10,7917,4286,348
Provision for credit losses449521334
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense2,6211,6951,496
Noncompensation expense3,9372,7732,234
Amortization of intangibles26733Total noninterest expense
6,8254,4713,733
Operating earnings before 
income tax expense3,5172,4362,281
Income tax expense 1,318889849
Operating earnings
$2,199
$1,547$1,432
Financial ratios
ROE24%37%37%
ROA1.181.051.25
Overhead ratio
636059
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings were $2.2 billion,up from $1.5 billion a year ago.

The increase was largely due to the Merger.Excluding the benefit of the

Merger,earnings declined as lower MSR risk management results and reduced

prime mortgage production revenue offset the benefits of growth in loan bal-
ances,wider spreads on deposit products and improvement in credit costs.
Total net revenue increased to $10.8 billion,up 45% from the prior year.Net
interest income increased by 48% to $7.7 billion,primarily due to the Merger,

growth in retained loan balances and wider spreads on deposit products.

Noninterest revenue increased to $3.1 billion,up 39%,due to the Merger

and higher mortgage servicing income.Both components of total revenue

included declines associated with risk managing the MSR asset and lower
prime mortgage originations.
The Provision for credit losses was down 14% to $449 million,despite the
influence of the Merger.The effect of the Merger was offset by a reduction in

the allowance for loan losses,resulting from the sale of the manufactured

home loan portfolio,and continued positive credit quality trends in the con-

sumer lending businesses.
Noninterest expense totaled $6.8 billion,up 53% from the prior year,primarily
due to the Merger and continued investments to expand the branch network.

Partially offsetting the increase were merger-related expense savings in all

businesses.
2003 compared with 2002
Total net revenue was $7.4 billion in 2003,an increase of 17% over 2002.

Net interest income increased by 37% to $5.2 billion,reflecting the positive

impact of the low interest rate environment on consumer loan originations,

particularly in Home Finance,and on spreads earned on retained loans.
The Provision for credit losses of $521 million increased by 56% compared
with the prior year due to continued growth in the retained loan portfolios.

Credit quality remained stable in 2003,as charge-offs decreased slightly,to

$381 million.Noninterest expense rose 20% to $4.5 billion.The increase reflected higher
business volumes and compensation costs.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
34JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Selected income statement data by businessYear ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200420032002
Prime production and servicing
Production $728
$1,339$1,052
Servicing:Mortgage servicing revenue,
net of amortization651453486
MSR risk management results113784670
Total net revenue
1,4922,5762,208
Noninterest expense1,1151,124921
Operating earnings
240918821
Consumer real estate lending
Total net revenue
2,3761,473712
Provision for credit losses74240191
Noninterest expense 922606417
Operating earnings 
88141481
Total Home Finance
Total net revenue
3,8684,0492,920
Provision for credit losses74240191
Noninterest expense 2,0371,7301,338
Operating earnings 
1,1211,332902
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings in the Prime Production & Servicing segment dropped to

$240 million from $918 million in the prior year.Results reflected a decrease

in prime mortgage production revenue,to $728 million from $1.3 billion,due

to a decline in mortgage originations.Operating earnings were also impacted

by a drop in MSR risk management revenue,to $113 million from $784 million

in the prior year.Results in 2004 included realized losses of $89 million on the

sale of AFS securities associated with risk management of the MSR asset,

compared with securities gains of $359 million in the prior year.Noninterest

expense was relatively flat at $1.1 billion.
Selected metricsYear ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except headcount and ratios)
200420032002
Selected balance sheet (ending)Total assets
$226,560
$139,316NA
Loans(b)202,473121,921NA
Core deposits(c)157,25675,850NA
Total deposits
182,76586,162NA
Selected balance sheet (average)
Total assets
$185,928
$147,435$114,248
Loans(d)162,768120,75093,125
Core deposits(c)121,12180,11668,551
Total deposits
137,79689,79379,348
Equity9,0924,2203,907
Headcount59,63232,27829,096
Credit data and quality statistics
Net charge-offs(e)$990
$381$382
Nonperforming loans(f)1,161569554
Nonperforming assets1,385775730
Allowance for loan losses
1,2281,094955
Net charge-off rate
0.67%0.40%0.48%
Allowance for loan losses to 
ending loans(b)0.671.04NA
Allowance for loan losses to 
nonperforming loans(f)107209181
Nonperforming loans to total loans0.570.47NA
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)End-of-period loans include loans held for sale of $18,022 million,$17,105 million and
$19,948 million at December 31,2004,2003 and 2002,respectively.Those amounts are

not included in the allowance coverage ratios.
(c)Includes demand and savings deposits.

(d)Average loans include loans held for sale of $14,736 million,$25,293 million and $13,500
million for 2004,2003 and 2002,respectively.These amounts are not included in the net

charge-off rate.
(e)Includes $406 million of charge-offs related to the manufactured home loan portfolio in the
fourth quarter of 2004.(f)Nonperforming loans include loans held for sale of $13 million,$45 million and $25 million
at December 31,2004,2003 and 2002,respectively.These amounts are not included in the

allowance coverage ratios.
NA Ð Data for 2002 is not available on a comparable basis.
Home Finance Home Finance is comprised of two key business segments:Prime Production &
Servicing and Consumer Real Estate Lending.The Prime Production & Servicing

segment includes the operating results associated with the origination,sale

and servicing of prime mortgages.Consumer Real Estate Lending reflects the

operating results of consumer loans that are secured by real estate,retained by

the Firm and held in the portfolio.This portfolio includes prime and subprime

first mortgages,home equity lines and loans,and manufactured home loans.

The Firm stopped originating manufactured home loans early in 2004 and sold

substantially all of its remaining portfolio at the end of the year.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
35Operating earnings for the Consumer Real Estate Lending segment more than
doubled to $881 million from $414 million in the prior year.The increase was

largely due to the addition of the Bank One home equity lending business but
also reflected growth in retained loan balances and a $95 million net benefit
associated with the sale of the $4 billion manufactured home loan portfolio;
partially offsetting these increases were lower subprime mortgage securitiza-
tion gains.These factors contributed to total net revenue rising 61% to 

$2.4 billion.The provision for credit losses,at $74 million,decreased by 

69% from a year ago.This was the result of an $87 million reduction in the

allowance for loan losses associated with the manufactured home loan port-

folio sale,improved credit quality and lower delinquencies,partially offset by

the Merger.Noninterest expense totaled $922 million,up 52% from the year-

ago period,largely due to the Merger.
2003 compared with 2002
Home Finance achieved record financial performance in 2003,as operating

earnings of $1.3 billion increased by 48% from 2002.Total net revenue of $4.0 billion increased by 39% over 2002,given record
production revenue,improved margins and higher home equity revenue.
The provision for credit losses of $240 million for 2003 increased by 26%
over 2002,primarily due to higher retained loan balances.Credit quality con-

tinued to be strong relative to 2002,as evidenced by a lower net charge-off

ratio and reduced delinquencies.
Noninterest expense of $1.7 billion increased by 29% from 2002,primarily 
a result of growth in origination volume.The increase in expenses was also a

result of higher performance-related incentives and strategic investments

made to further expand certain distribution channels.These were partially 

offset by production-related expense reduction efforts initiated in the fourth
quarter of 2003.Selected metricsYear ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except ratios and 
where otherwise noted)200420032002
Origination volume by channel (in billions)Retail$74.2
$90.8$56.3
Wholesale48.565.636.2
Correspondent 22.844.520.6
Correspondent negotiated transactions
41.583.342.6
Total
187.0284.2155.7
Origination volume by business (in billions)
Mortgage$144.6
$259.5$141.8
Home equity42.424.713.9
Total
187.0284.2155.7
Business metrics (in billions)Loans serviced (ending)$562.0
$470.0$426.0
MSR net carrying value (ending)
5.14.83.2
End of period loans ownedMortgage loans held for sale
14.215.918.8
Mortgage loans retained42.634.526.9
Home equity and other loans
67.924.118.5
Total end of period loans owned
124.774.564.2
Average loans owned
Mortgage loans held for sale
12.123.512.0
Mortgage loans retained40.732.027.7
Home equity and other loans
47.019.417.2
Total average loans owned
99.874.956.9
Overhead ratio
53%43%46%
Credit quality statistics

30+ day delinquency rate
1.27%1.81%3.07%
Net charge-offsMortgage$19
$26$50
Home equity and other loans
(b)55410993
Total net charge-offs
573135143
Net charge-off rate
Mortgage0.05%0.08%0.18%
Home equity and other loans
1.180.560.53
Total net charge-off rate
(c)0.650.260.32
Nonperforming assets$844
$546$518
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Includes $406 million of charge-offs related to the manufactured home loan portfolio in the
fourth quarter of 2004.(c)Excludes mortgage loans held for sale.
Home FinanceÕs origination channels are comprised of the following:
RetailÐ A mortgage banker employed by the Firm directly contacts borrowers who are buying or refinancing a home through a branch offi
ce,through the
Internet or by phone.Borrowers are frequently referred to a mortgage banker by real estate brokers,home builders or other third
 parties.
Wholesale
Ð A third-party mortgage broker refers loans to a mortgage banker at the Firm.Brokers are independent loan originators that spe
cialize in findingand counseling borrowers but do not provide funding for loans.
Correspondent
Ð Banks,thrifts,other mortgage banks and other financial institutions sell closed loans to the Firm.
Correspondent negotiated transactions (ÒCNTÓ)
Ð Mid- to large-sized mortgage lenders,banks and bank-owned mortgage companies sell servicing to
the Firm on an as-originated basis.These transactions supplement traditional production channels and provide growth opportuniti
es in the servicing portfolio instable and rising-rate periods.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
36JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
The following table details the MSR risk management results in the Home
Finance business:MSR risk management results
Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200420032002
Reported amounts:MSR valuation adjustments
(b)$(248)
$(253)$(4,040)
Derivative valuation adjustments 
and other risk management gains (losses)(c)3611,0374,710
MSR risk management results$113
$784$670
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Excludes subprime loan MSR activity of $(2) million and $(13) million in 2004 and 2002,
respectively.There was no subprime loan MSR activity in 2003.
(c)Includes gains,losses and interest income associated with derivatives both designated 
and not designated as a SFAS 133 hedge,and securities classified as both trading and

available-for-sale.
Home Finance uses a combination of derivatives,AFS securities and trading
securities to manage changes in the fair value of the MSR asset.These risk

management activities are intended to protect the economic value of the

MSR asset by providing offsetting changes in the fair value of related risk

management instruments.The type and amount of hedging instruments used

in this risk management activity change over time as market conditions and

approach dictate.
During 2004,negative MSR valuation adjustments of $248 million were more
than offset by $361 million of aggregate risk management gains,including

net interest earned on AFS securities.In 
2003,negative MSR valuation adjust-
ments of $253 million were more than offset by $1.0 billion of aggregate risk
management gains,including net interest earned on AFS securities.Unrealized

gains/(losses) on AFS securities were $(3) million,$(144) million and $377 mil-

lion at December 31,2004,2003 and 2002,respectively.For a further discussion

of MSRs,see Critical accounting estimates on page 79 and Note 15 on pages

109Ð111 of this Annual Report.
Consumer & Small Business BankingConsumer & Small Business Banking offers a full array of financial services

through a branch network spanning 17 states as well as through the Internet.

Product offerings include checking and savings accounts,mutual funds and

annuities,credit cards,mortgages and home equity loans,and loans for small

business customers (generally with annual sales less than $10 million).This

segment also includes community development loans.
Selected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200420032002
Total net revenue
$5,385
$2,422$2,648
Provision for credit losses16576(31)
Noninterest expense3,9812,3582,055
Operating earnings
760(4)361
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings totaled $760 million,up from a loss of $4 million in the

prior-year period.The increase was largely due to the Merger but also reflected

wider spreads on deposits and lower expenses.These benefits were partially

offset by a higher Provision for credit losses.
Total net revenue was $5.4 billion,compared with $2.4 billion in the prior
year.While the increase is primarily attributable to the Merger,total net 

revenue also benefited from wider spreads on deposits.
The Provision for credit losses increased to $165 million from $76 million in
the prior year.The increase was in part due to the Merger but also reflected an

increase in the Allowance for credit losses to cover high-risk portfolio segments.
The increase in noninterest expense to $4.0 billion was largely attributable to
the Merger.Incremental expense from investments in the branch distribution

network was also a contributing factor.
2003 compared with 2002
Total net revenue of $2.4 billion decreased by 9% compared with 2002.

Net interest income declined by 10% to $1.6 billion,primarily due to the

lowÐinterest rate environment.Noninterest revenue decreased by 5% to

$828 million given lower deposit fee income,decreased debit card fees and

one-time gains in 2002.Noninterest expense of $2.4 billion increased by 15% from 2002.The increase
was largely due to investments in technology within the branch network and

higher compensation expenses related to increased staff levels.
The Provision for credit losses of $76 million increased by $107 million 
compared with 2002.This reflected a reduction in the allowance for loan

losses in 2002.The table below reconciles managementÕs disclosure of Home FinanceÕs revenue into the reported U.S.GAAP line items shown on the
 Consolidated statement of
income and in the related Notes to Consolidated financial statements:Year ended December 31,
(a)Prime production and servicing Consumer real estate lendingTotal revenue 
(in millions)20042003 2002 20042003 2002 20042003 2002Net interest income $700
$1,556$727
$2,245
$1,226$712
$2,945
$2,782$1,439
Securities / private equity gains (losses)
(89)359498
ÑÑÑ(89)359498
Mortgage fees and related income(b)881661983
131247Ñ
1,012908983
Total
$1,492
$2,576$2,208
$2,376
$1,473$712
$3,868
$4,049$2,920
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.All other p
eriods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Includes activity reported elsewhere as Other income.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
37Selected metrics Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except ratios and 
where otherwise noted)200420032002
Business metrics (in billions)End-of-period balances
Small business loans$12.5
$2.2NA
Consumer and other loans(b)2.22.0NA
Total loans 
14.74.2NA
Core deposits(c)146.766.4NA
Total deposits 
172.276.7NA
Average balances
Small business loans$7.3
$2.1$1.9
Consumer and other loans(b)2.12.02.6
Total loans 
9.44.14.5
Core deposits(c)110.064.857.9
Total deposits 
126.674.468.7
Number of:Branches
2,508561560
ATMs
6,6501,9311,876
Personal bankers
5,3241,8201,587
Personal checking accounts (in thousands)
7,2861,9842,037
Business checking accounts (in thousands)894347345
Online customers (in thousands)6,587NANA
Debit cards issued (in thousands)8,3922,3802,352
Overhead ratio
74%97%78%
Retail brokerage business metrics
Investment sales volume$7,324
$3,579NA
Number of dedicated investment sales representatives1,364349291
Credit quality statistics
Net charge-offsSmall business $77
$35$24
Consumer and other loans774051
Total net charge-offs
1547575
Net charge-off rate
Small business 1.05%1.67%1.26%
Consumer and other loans3.672.001.96
Total net charge-off rate
1.641.831.67
Nonperforming assets$299
$72$94
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Primarily community development loans.

(c)Includes demand and savings deposits.

NA-Data is not available on a comparable basis.
Auto & Education FinanceAuto & Education Finance provides automobile loans and leases to consumersand loans to commercial clients,primarily through a national network of

automotive dealers.The segment also offers loans to students via colleges

and universities across the United States.
Selected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200420032002
Total net revenue
$1,145
$842$683
Provision for credit losses210205174
Noninterest expense490291247
Operating earnings
270206166
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings totaled $270 million,up 31% from the prior year.While

the increase was reflective of the Merger,performance for the year was mod-

erated by narrower spreads and reduced origination volumes arising from a

competitive operating environment.
Total net revenue increased by 36% to $1.1 billion from the prior year.This
increase reflected the Merger but included a decline in net interest income,

given the competitive operating environment in 2004 and incremental

charges associated with the FirmÕs lease residual exposure.
The Provision for credit losses totaled $210 million,up 2% from the prior
year.The increase was due to the Merger but was largely offset by a lower

provision for credit losses,reflecting favorable credit trends.
Noninterest expense increased by 68% to $490 million,largely due to 
the Merger.
The following is a brief description of selected business metrics within Consumer & Small Business Banking.
¥ Personal bankers Ð 
Retail branch office personnel who acquire,retain and expand new and existing customer relationships by assessing customer need
sand recommending and selling appropriate banking products and services.
¥ Investment sales representatives Ð 
Licensed retail branch sales personnel,assigned to support several branches,who assist with the sale of investment
products including college planning accounts,mutual funds,annuities and retirement accounts.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
38JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
2003 compared with 2002
In 2003,operating earnings were $206 million,24% higher than in 2002.

Total net revenue grew by 23% to $842 million.Net interest income grew by

33% in comparison to 2002,driven by higher average loans and leases out-

standing and wider spreads.
The Provision for credit losses increased by 18% to $205 million,primarily
reflecting a 32% increase in average loan and lease receivables.Credit quality

continued to be strong relative to 2002,as evidenced by a lower net charge-

off ratio and a reduced delinquency rate.
Noninterest expense of $291 million increased by 18% compared with 2002.The increase in expenses was driven by higher origination volume and higher

performance-based incentives.
Selected metrics Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except ratios and 
where otherwise noted)200420032002
Business metrics (in billions)End of period loans and lease receivables  
Loans receivables 
$54.6
$33.7$28.0
Lease receivables 
8.09.59.4
Total end-of-period loans and lease 
receivables
62.643.237.4
Average loans and lease receivables 
Loans outstanding (average)
(b)$44.3
$32.0$23.3
Lease receivables (average)
9.09.78.4
Total average loans and lease 
receivables
(b)53.341.731.7
Overhead ratio
43%35%36%
Credit quality statistics
30+ day delinquency rate
1.55%1.42%1.49%
Net charge-offsLoans$219
$130$126
Lease receivables
444138
Total net charge-offs
263171164
Net charge off rate
Loans(b)0.52%0.43%0.58%
Lease receivables
0.490.420.45
Total net charge-off rate
(b)0.520.430.54
Nonperforming assets$242
$157$118
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Average loans include loans held for sale of $2.3 billion,$1.8 billion and $1.5 billion for,
2004,2003 and 2002,respectively.These are not included in the net charge-off rate.
Insurance
Insurance is a provider of financial protection products and services,including
life insurance,annuities and debt protection.Products and services are distrib-

uted through both internal lines of business and external markets.
Selected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200420032002
Total net revenue
$393
$115$97
Noninterest expense3179293
Operating earnings
48133
Memo:Consolidated gross 
insurance-related revenue
(b)1,191611536
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Includes revenue reported in the results of other businesses.
2004 compared with 2003
Insurance operating earnings totaled $48 million on total net revenue of

$393 million in 2004.The increases in total net revenue and noninterest

expense over the prior year were almost entirely due to the Merger.
2003 compared with 2002 
Operating earnings in 2003 reflected a 19% increase in Total net revenue,

while expenses were essentially flat.Selected metrics Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except 
where otherwise noted)200420032002
Business metrics Ð ending balances
Invested assets $7,368
$1,559$919
Policy loans 
397ÑÑInsurance policy and claims reserves
7,2791,096535
Term premiums Ð first year annualized 
28ÑÑProprietary annuity sales208548490
Number of policies in force Ð direct/assumed
(in thousands) 2,611631NA
Insurance in force Ð direct/assumed
$277,827
$31,992NA
Insurance in force Ð retained
80,69131,992NA
A.M.Best rating
AAA(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
NA-Data for 2002 is not available on a comparable basis.
The following is a brief description of selected business metrics within Insurance.
¥ Proprietary annuity sales 
represent annuity contracts marketed through and issued by subsidiaries of the Firm.
¥ Insurance in force Ð direct/assumed 
includes the aggregate face amount of insurance policies directly underwritten and assumed 
through reinsurance.
¥ Insurance in force Ð retained 
includes the aggregate face amounts of insurance policies directly underwritten and assumed through 
reinsurance,after reduction for face amounts ceded to reinsurers.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
39Card Services
Card Services is the largest issuer of general purpose credit
cards in the United States,with approximately 94 million cards

in circulation,and is the largest merchant acquirer.CS offers a

wide variety of products to satisfy the needs of its cardmembers,

including cards issued on behalf of many well-known partners,

such as major airlines,hotels,universities,retailers and other

financial institutions.
JPMorgan Chase uses the concept of Òmanaged receivablesÓto evaluate 
the credit performance of the underlying credit card loans,both sold and not

sold:as the same borrower is continuing to use the credit card for ongoing

charges,a borrowerÕs credit performance will affect both the receivables 

sold under SFAS 140 and those not sold.Thus,in its disclosures regarding

managed receivables,JPMorgan Chase treats the sold receivables as if they

were still on the balance sheet in order to disclose the credit performance
(such as net charge-off rates) of the entire managed credit card portfolio.

Operating results exclude the impact of credit card securitizations on revenue,

the provision for credit losses,net charge-offs and receivables.Securitization

does not change reported net income versus operating earnings;however,it

does affect the classification of items on the Consolidated statements of income.
Selected income statement data Ð managed basisYear ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except ratios)
200420032002
RevenueAsset management,administration and commissions
$75
$108$126
Credit card income2,179930826
Other income1175431
Noninterest revenue2,3711,092983
Net interest income
8,3745,0524,930
Total net revenue
10,7456,1445,913
Provision for credit losses4,8512,9042,751
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense893582523
Noncompensation expense2,4851,3361,320
Amortization of intangibles505260286
Total noninterest expense
3,8832,1782,129
Operating earnings before 
income tax expense2,0111,0621,033
Income tax expense737379369
Operating earnings
$1,274
$683$664
Financial metricsROE17%20%19%
Overhead ratio
363536
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings of $1.3 billion increased by $591 million compared with

the prior year,primarily due to the Merger.In addition,earnings benefited

from higher loan balances and charge volume,partially offset by a higher 

provision for credit losses and higher expenses.
Total net revenue of $10.7 billion increased by $4.6 billion.Net interest
income of $8.4 billion increased by $3.3 billion,primarily due to the Merger

and higher loan balances.Noninterest revenue of $2.4 billion increased by

$1.3 billion,primarily due to the Merger and higher charge volume,which

generated increased interchange income.This was partially offset by higher

volume-driven payments to partners,reflecting the sharing of income and

increased rewards expense.
The Provision for credit losses of $4.9 billion increased by $1.9 billion,prima-
rily due to the Merger and growth in credit card receivables.Credit ratios

remained strong,benefiting from reduced contractual and bankruptcy 

charge-offs.The net charge-off ratio was 5.27%.The 30-day delinquency 

ratio was 3.70%.
Noninterest expense of $3.9 billion increased by $1.7 billion,primarily related
to the Merger.In addition,expenses increased due to higher marketing

expenses and volume-based processing expenses,partially offset by lower

compensation expenses.
2003 compared with 2002
Operating earnings of $683 million increased by $19 million or 3% compared

with the prior year.Earnings benefited from higher revenue,partially offset by

a higher provision for credit losses and expenses.
Total net revenue of $6.1 billion increased by 4%.Net interest income of
$5.1 billion increased by 2% due to higher spread and loan balances.

Noninterest revenue of $1.1 billion increased by 11% due to higher charge
volume,which generated increased interchange income.This was partially 

offset by higher rewards expense.
The Provision for credit losses was $2.9 billion,an increase of 6%,primarily
due to the higher provision for credit losses and higher losses due to loan
growth.Conservative risk management and rigorous collection practices 

contributed to stable credit quality.
Noninterest expense was $2.2 billion,an increase of 2%,due to volume-
based processing expenses,partially offset by disciplined expense management.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
40JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Selected metricsYear ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except headcount,ratios
and where otherwise noted)200420032002
Memo:Net securitization 
gains (amortization)$(8)
$1$16
% of average managed outstandings:
Net interest income9.16%9.95%10.08%
Provision for credit losses5.315.725.62
Noninterest revenue2.592.152.01
Risk adjusted margin(b)6.456.386.46
Noninterest expense4.254.294.35
Pre-tax income2.202.092.11
Operating earnings
1.391.351.36
Business metrics
Charge volume (in billions)$193.6
$88.2$79.0
Net accounts opened (in thousands)7,5234,1773,680
Credit cards issued (in thousands)94,28535,10333,488
Number of registered  internet customers (in millions)13.63.72.2
Merchant acquiring business Bank card volume (in billions)$396.2
$261.2$226.1
Total transactions (in millions)
12,0667,1546,509
Selected ending balancesLoans:Loans on balance sheet
$64,575
$17,426$20,101
Securitized loans 70,79534,85630,722
Managed loans$135,370$52,282$50,823
Selected average balances
Managed assets$94,741
$51,406$49,648
Loans:Loans on balance sheet
$38,842
$17,604$22,410
Securitized loans52,59033,16926,519
Managed loans$91,432
$50,773$48,929
Equity7,6083,4403,444
Headcount19,59810,61210,885
Credit quality statistics Ð managed
Net charge-offs $4,821
$2,996$2,887
Net charge-off rate
5.27%5.90%5.90%
Delinquency ratios Ð managed
30+ days3.70%4.68%4.69%
90+ days1.722.192.16
Allowance for loan losses
$2,994
$1,225$1,459
Allowance for loan losses to 
period-end loans4.64%7.03%7.26%
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Represents Total net revenue less Provision for credit losses.
The financial information presented below reconciles reported basis and man-
aged basis to disclose the effect of securitizations.
Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200420032002
Income statement dataCredit card incomeReported data for the period$4,446
$2,309$2,167
Securitization adjustments(2,267)(1,379)(1,341)
Managed credit card income
$2,179
$930$826
Other incomeReported data for the period$203
$125$67
Securitization adjustments(86)(71)(36)
Managed other income$117
$54$31
Net interest incomeReported data for the period$3,123
$1,732$2,114
Securitization adjustments5,2513,3202,816
Managed net interest income$8,374
$5,052$4,930
Total net revenue
(b)Reported data for the period$7,847
$4,274$4,474
Securitization adjustments2,8981,8701,439
Managed total net revenue$10,745
$6,144$5,913
Provision for credit lossesReported data for the period$1,953
$1,034$1,312
Securitization adjustments2,8981,8701,439
Managed provision for credit losses$4,851
$2,904$2,751
Balance sheet Ð average balances
Total average assets
Reported data for the period$43,657
$19,041$23,129
Securitization adjustments51,08432,36526,519
Managed average assets
$94,741
$51,406$49,648
Credit quality statistics
Net charge-offsReported net charge-offs data 
for the period$1,923
$1,126$1,448
Securitization adjustments2,8981,8701,439
Managed net charge-offs$4,821
$2,996$2,887
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Includes Credit card income,Other income and Net interest income.
The following is a brief description of selected business metrics within Card Services.
¥ Charge volume
Ð Represents the dollar amount of cardmember purchases,balance transfers and cash advance activity.
¥ Net accounts opened
Ð Includes originations,purchases and sales.
¥ Merchant acquiring business
Ð Represents an entity that processes payments for merchants.JPMorgan Chase is a majority owner of
Paymentech,Inc.and a 50% owner of Chase Merchant Services.
¥ Bank card volume
Ð Represents the dollar amount of transactions processed for the merchants.
¥ Total transactions
Ð Represents the number of transactions and authorizations processed for the merchants.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
41Commercial Banking
Commercial Banking serves more than 25,000 corporations,
municipalities,financial institutions and not-for-profit entities,

with annual revenues generally ranging from $10 million to 

$2 billion.A local market presence and a strong customer service

model,coupled with a focus on risk management,provide a

solid infrastructure for Commercial Banking to provide the FirmÕs

complete product set Ð lending,treasury services,investment

banking and investment management Ð for both corporate

clients and their executives.Commercial BankingÕs clients benefit

greatly from the FirmÕs extensive branch network and often 

use the Firm exclusively to meet their financial services needs.
Commercial Banking operates in 10 of the top 15 major U.S.metropolitan
areas.Within this network,Commercial Banking is divided into three cus-

tomer coverage segments.General coverage for corporate clients is done by

Middle Market Banking,which generally covers clients up to $500 million,

and Corporate Banking,which generally covers clients over $500 million.

Corporate Banking typically focuses on clients that have broader investment

banking needs.The third segment,Commercial Real Estate,serves investors in

and developers of for-sale housing,multifamily rental,retail,office and indus-

trial properties.In addition to these three customer groupings,Commercial

Banking offers several products to the FirmÕs entire customer base.Chase

Business Credit is a leading national provider of highly structured asset-based
financing,syndications and collateral analysis.Chase Equipment Leasing

finances a variety of equipment types and offers vendor programs for leading

capital and technology equipment manufacturers.Given this structure,

Commercial Banking manages a customer base and loan portfolio that is
highly diversified across a broad range of industries and geographic locations.
Commercial Banking was known prior to the Merger as Chase Middle Market
and was a business within the former Chase Financial Services.
Selected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except ratios)
200420032002
RevenueLending & deposit related fees$441
$301$285
Asset management,administration 
and commissions321916
Other income(b)2097365
Noninterest revenue
682393366
Net interest income
1,692959999
Total net revenue
2,3741,3521,365
Provision for credit losses41672
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense465285237
Noncompensation expense843534565
Amortization of intangibles3537Total noninterest expense
1,343822809
Operating earnings before income 
tax expense990524484
Income tax expense 
382217201
Operating earnings
$608
$307$283
Financial ratios
ROE29%29%24%
ROA1.671.871.77
Overhead ratio
576159
(a) 2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b) IB-related and commercial card revenues are included in Other income.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings were $608 million,an increase of 98%,primarily due 

to the Merger.
Total net revenue was $2.4 billion,an increase of 76%,primarily due to the
Merger.In addition to the overall increase related to the Merger,Net interest

income of $1.7 billion was positively affected by higher deposit balances,par-

tially offset by lower lending-related revenue.Noninterest revenue of $682

million was positively affected by higher investment banking fees and higher

gains on the sale of loans and securities acquired in satisfaction of debt,par-

tially offset by lower service charges on deposits,which often decline as inter-

est rates rise.
The Provision for credit losses was $41 million,an increase of $35 million,pri-
marily due to the Merger.Excluding the impact of the Merger,the provision was

higher in 2004.Lower net charge-offs in 2004 were partially offset by lower

reductions in the Allowance for credit losses in 2004 relative to 2003.
Noninterest expense was $1.3 billion,an increase of $521 million,or 63%,
primarily related to the Merger.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
42JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
2003 compared with 2002
Operating earnings were $307 million,an increase of 8% compared with 2002.
Total net revenue of $1.4 billion decreased by 1% compared with 2002.
Net interest income of $1.0 billion decreased by 4% compared with the prior
year,primarily due to lower deposit and loan spreads,partially offset by higher

deposit and loan balances.Noninterest revenue was $393 million,an increase

of 7%,primarily reflecting higher service charges on deposits and investment

banking fees.
The Provision for credit losses was $6 million,a decrease of $66 million,
which resulted from a larger reduction in the Allowance for credit losses and

lower net charge-offs in 2003,reflecting an improvement in credit quality.
Noninterest expense was $822 million,an increase of 2% compared with 2002.
The increase was the result of higher severance costs and performance-based

incentives,partially offset by a decrease in other expenses.
Selected metricsYear ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except headcount and ratios)
200420032002
Revenue by product:
Lending$764
$396$414
Treasury services
1,467896925
Investment banking1206651
Other23(6)(25)
Total Commercial Banking revenue
2,3741,3521,365
Selected balance sheet (average)
Total assets
$36,435
$16,460$15,973
Loans and leases32,41714,04913,642
Deposits51,62032,88029,403
Equity2,0931,0591,199
Headcount4,5551,7301,807
Credit data and quality statistics:
Net charge-offs $61
$76$107
Nonperforming loans527123198
Allowance for loan losses
1,322122182
Allowance for lending-related commitments
(b)16926Ñ
Net charge-off rate
0.19%0.54%0.78%
Allowance for loan losses to average loans
4.080.871.33
Allowance for loan losses to 
nonperforming loans2519992
Nonperforming loans to average loans
1.630.881.45
(a) 2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)In 2002,the Allowance for lending-related commitments was allocated to the IB.Had the
amount been allocated to CB,the allowance would have been $24 million.
Commercial Banking revenues are comprised of the following:
Lendingincorporates a variety of financing alternatives,such as term loans,revolving lines of credit and asset-based structures and le
ases,which are often secured
by receivables,inventory,equipment or real estate.
Treasury services
incorporates a broad range of products and services to help clients manage short-term liquidity through deposits and sweeps,and
 longer-
term investment needs through money market accounts,certificates of deposit and mutual funds;manage working capital through loc
kbox,global trade,global
clearing and commercial card products;and have ready access to information to manage their business through on-line reporting t
ools.
Investment bankingproducts provide clients with more sophisticated capital-raising alternatives,through loan syndications,investment-grade debt,a
sset-backed securities,private placements,high-yield bonds and equity underwriting,and balance sheet and risk management tools throu
gh foreign exchange,deriv-
atives,M&A and advisory services.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
43Treasury & Securities Services
Treasury & Securities Services is a global leader in providing
transaction,investment and information services to support the

needs of corporations,issuers and institutional investors world-

wide.TSS is the largest cash management provider in the world

and one of the top three global custodians.The Treasury Services

business provides clients with a broad range of capabilities,

including U.S.dollar and multi-currency clearing,ACH,trade,and

short-term liquidity and working capital tools.The Investor

Services business provides a wide range of capabilities,includ-

ing custody,funds services,securities lending,and performance

measurement and execution products.The Institutional Trust

Services business provides trustee,depository and administra-

tive services for debt and equity issuers.Treasury Services part-

ners with the Commercial Banking,Consumer & Small Business

Banking and Asset & Wealth Management segments to serve

clients firmwide.As a result,certain Treasury Services revenues

are included in other segmentsÕ results.
Selected income statement data Year ending December 31,
(a)(in millions,except ratios)
200420032002
RevenueLending & deposit related fees$647
$470$445
Asset management,administration 
and commissions2,4451,9031,800
Other income382288328
Noninterest revenue
3,4742,6612,573
Net interest income
1,383947962
Total net revenue
4,8573,6083,535
Provision for credit losses713Credit reimbursement (to) from IB(b)(90)3682
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense1,6291,2571,131
Noncompensation expense2,3911,7451,616
Amortization of intangibles932624
Total noninterest expense
4,1133,0282,771
Operating earnings before income 
tax expense647615843
Income tax expense 207193294
Operating earnings
$440
$422$549
Financial ratios
ROE17%15%20%
Overhead ratio
858478
MemoTreasury Services firmwide overhead ratios
(c)626262
Treasury & Securities Services 
firmwide overhead ratio
(c)747672
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)TSS is charged a credit reimbursement related to certain exposures managed within the IB
credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS.For a further discussion,see Credit

reimbursement on page 29 of this Annual Report.
(c)  TSS and TS firmwide overhead ratios have been calculated based on the firmwide revenues
described in footnote (b) on page 44 of this Annual Report and TSS or TS expenses,respec-

tively,including those allocated to certain other lines of business.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings for the year were $440 million,an increase of $18 million,

or 4%.Results in 2004 include an after-tax gain of $10 million on the sale of

an Investor Services business.Prior-year results include an after-tax gain of

$22 million on the sale of an Institutional Trust Services business.Excluding

these one-time gains,operating earnings increased by $30 million,or 8%.

Both net revenue and Noninterest expense increased primarily as a result of
the Merger,the acquisition of Bank OneÕs Corporate Trust business in

November 2003 and the acquisition of EFS in January 2004.
TSS net revenue improved by 35% to $4.9 billion.This revenue growth
reflected the benefit of the Merger and the acquisitions noted above and
improved product revenues across TSS.Net interest income grew to 

$1.4 billion from $947 million as a result of average deposit balance growth

of 44%,to $128 billion,a change in the corporate deposit pricing method-

ology in 2004 and wider deposit spreads.Growth in fees and commissions

was driven by a 20% increase in assets under custody to $9.1 trillion as well

as new business growth in trade,commercial card,global equity products,

securities lending,fund services,clearing and ACH.Partially offsetting these

improvements were lower service charges on deposits,which often decline as

interest rates rise,and a soft municipal bond market.
Treasury Services (ÒTSÓ) net revenue grew to $2.0 billion,Investor Services
(ÒISÓ) to $1.7 billion and Institutional Trust Services (ÒITSÓ) to $1.2 billion.

TSS firmwide net revenue grew 41% to $6.5 billion.TSS firmwide net rev-

enues include Treasury Services net revenues recorded in other lines of business.
Credit reimbursement to the Investment Bank was $90 million,compared
with a credit from the Investment Bank of $36 million in the prior year,princi-

pally due to the Merger and a change in methodology.TSS is charged a credit

reimbursement related to certain exposures managed within the Investment
Bank credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS.
Noninterest expense totaled $4.1 billion,up from $3.0 billion,reflecting the
Merger and the acquisitions noted above,$155 million of software impair-

ment charges,upfront transition expenses related to on-boarding new cus-

tody and fund accounting clients,and legal and technology-related expenses.
On January 7,2005,JPMorgan Chase agreed to acquire Vastera,a provider 
of global trade management solutions,for a total transaction value of approx-

imately $129 million.VasteraÕs business will be combined with the Logistics

and Trade Services businesses of the Treasury Services unit.The transaction is

expected to close in the first half of 2005.2003 compared with 2002
TSS operating earnings decreased by 23% from 2002 while delivering a

return on allocated capital of 15%.A 9% increase in Noninterest expense

and a lower credit reimbursement contributed to the lower earnings.
Total net revenue increased by 2%,with growth at ITS of 11%.ITS revenue
growth was the result of debt product lines,increased volume in asset servic-

ing,a pre-tax gain of $36 million on the sale of an Institutional Trust Services

business in 2003,and the result of acquisitions which generated $29 million of

new revenue in 2003.TSÕs revenue rose by 8% on higher trade and commer-

cial payment card revenue and increased balance-related earnings,including
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
44JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
higher balance-deficiency fees resulting from the lower interest rate environ-
ment.ISÕs revenue contracted by 7%,the result of lower NII due to lower

interest rates,lower foreign exchange and securities lending revenue,and a

pre-tax gain of $50 million on the sale of the FirmÕs interest in a non-U.S.

securities clearing firm in 2002.Noninterest expense increased by 9%,attributable to higher severance,
the impact of acquisitions,the cost associated with expensing of options,

increased pension costs and charges to provide for losses on subletting 
unoccupied excess real estate.
TSS was assigned a credit reimbursement of pre-tax earnings and the 
associated capital related to certain credit exposures managed within IBÕs

credit portfolio on behalf of clients shared with TSS.For 2003,the impact to

TSS was to increase pre-tax operating earnings by $36 million and average

allocated capital by $712 million.Selected metrics Year ending December 31,
(a)(in millions,except headcount and where 
otherwise noted)200420032002
Revenue by businessTreasury Services
(b)$1,994
$1,200$1,111
Investor Services1,7091,4481,561
Institutional Trust Services
1,154960863
Total net revenue
$4,857
$3,608$3,535
MemoTreasury Services firmwide revenue
(b)$3,665
$2,214$2,125
Treasury & Securities Services 
firmwide revenue(b)6,5284,6224,549
Business metricsAssets under custody (in billions)$9,137
$7,597$6,336
Corporate trust securities 
under administration (in billions)
(c)6,6766,127NA
Selected balance sheet (average)
Total assets
$23,430
$18,379$17,239
Loans7,8496,0095,972
DepositsU.S.deposits
82,92854,11632,698
Non-U.S.deposits
45,02234,51834,919
Total deposits
127,95088,63467,617
Equity2,5442,7382,700
MemoTreasury Services firmwide deposits
(d)$99,587
$65,194$41,508
Treasury & Securities Services 
firmwide deposits(d)175,327119,24588,865
Headcount22,61215,14514,810  
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)TSS and Treasury Services firmwide revenues include TS revenues recorded in certain other
lines of business.Revenue associated with Treasury Services customers who are also customers

of the Commercial Banking,Consumer & Small Business Banking and Asset & Wealth

Management lines of business are reported in these other lines of business and are 
excluded from Treasury Services,as follows:
(in millions)200420032002
Treasury Services revenue reported in
Commercial Banking
$1,467
$896$925
Treasury Services revenue reported in
other lines of business
20411889
Note:Foreign exchange revenues are apportioned between TSS and the IB,and only TSSÕs
share is included in TSS firmwide revenue.
(c)Corporate trust securities under administration include debt held in trust on behalf of third
parties and debt serviced as agent.(d)TSS and TS firmwide deposits include TSÕs deposits recorded in certain other lines of 
business.Deposits associated with Treasury Services customers who are also customers 

of the Commercial Banking line of business are reported in that line of business and are
excluded from Treasury Services.
NA-Data for 2002 is not available on a comparable basis.
Treasury & Securities Services
firmwide metrics include certain TSS
product revenues and deposits reported in other lines of business for 
customers who are also customers of those lines of business.In order 

to capture the firmwide impact of TS and TSS products and revenues,

management reviews firmwide metrics such as firmwide deposits,

firmwide revenue and firmwide overhead ratios in assessing financial 

performance for TSS.Firmwide metrics are necessary in order to under-

stand the aggregate TSS business.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
45Asset & Wealth Management 
Asset & Wealth Management provides investment management
to retail and institutional investors,financial intermediaries

and high-net-worth families and individuals globally.For retail

investors,AWM provides investment management products and

services,including a global mutual fund franchise,retirement

plan administration,and consultation and brokerage services.

AWM delivers investment management to institutional investors

across all asset classes.The Private bank and Private client serv-

ices businesses provide integrated wealth management services

to ultra-high-net-worth and high-net-worth clients,respectively.
Selected income statement dataYear ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except ratios)
200420032002
RevenueLending & deposit related fees$28
$19$21
Asset management,administration 
and commissions3,1402,2582,228
Other income215205216
Noninterest revenue
3,3832,4822,465
Net interest income
796488467
Total net revenue
4,1792,9702,932
Provision for credit losses(14)3585
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense1,5791,2131,141
Noncompensation expense1,5021,2651,261
Amortization of intangibles5286Total noninterest expense
3,1332,4862,408
Operating earnings before 
income tax expense1,060449439
Income tax expense 
379162161
Operating earnings
$681
$287$278
Financial ratios
ROE17%5%5%
Overhead ratio
758482
Pre-tax margin ratio
(b)251515
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Pre-tax margin represents Operating earnings before income taxes / Total net revenue,which is
a comprehensive measure of pre-tax performance and is another basis by which AWM manage-

ment evaluates its performance and that of its competitors.Pre-tax margin is an effective meas-

ure of AWMÕs earnings,after all costs are taken into consideration.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings were $681 million,up 137% from the prior year,due

largely to the Merger but also driven by increased revenue and a decrease in
the Provision for credit losses;these were partially offset by higher

Compensation expense.
Total net revenue was $4.2 billion,up 41%,primarily due to the Merger.
Additionally,fees and commissions increased due to global equity market

appreciation,net asset inflows and the acquisition of JPMorgan Retirement

Plan Services (ÒRPSÓ) in the second quarter of 2003.Fees and commissions

also increased due to an improved product mix,with an increased percentage

of assets in higher-yielding products.Net interest income increased due to

deposit and loan growth.The Provision for credit losses was a benefit of $14 million,a decrease of 

$49 million,due to an improvement in credit quality.
Noninterest expense was $3.1 billion,up 26%,due to the Merger as well as
increased Compensation expense and the impact of increased technology and
marketing initiatives.
2003 compared with 2002
Operating earnings were $287 million,up 3% from the prior year,reflecting

an improved credit portfolio,the benefit of slightly higher revenues.During

the second quarter of 2003,the Firm acquired American Century Retirement

Plan Services Inc.,a provider of defined contribution recordkeeping services,

as part of its strategy to grow its U.S.retail investment management business.

The business was renamed JPMorgan Retirement Plan Services (ÒRPSÓ).
Total net revenue was $3.0 billion,up 1% from the prior year.The increase 
in fees and commissions reflected the acquisition of RPS and increased aver-
age equity market valuations in client portfolios,partly offset by institutional

net outflows.Net interest income increased due to higher brokerage account

balances and spreads.The decline in Other income primarily reflected non-

recurring items in 2002.The Provision for credit losses decreased by 59%,due to an improvement in
credit quality and recoveries.
Noninterest expense was $2.5 billion,up $78 million from 2002,reflecting
the acquisition of RPS,higher Compensation expense,and real estate and

software write-offs,partly offset by the continued impact of expense-

management programs.
Selected metrics Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except headcount and ratios)
200420032002
Revenue by client segment
Private bank
$1,554
$1,437$1,467
Retail1,081732695
Institutional 994723688
Private client services
5507882
Total net revenue
$4,179
$2,970$2,932
Business metricsNumber of:Client advisors1,226615673
Brown Co.average daily trades
29,90127,15024,584
Retirement Plan Services participants918,000756,000Ñ
Star rankings
(b)% of customer assets in funds 
ranked 4 or better
48%48%NA
% of customer assets in funds 
ranked 3 or better
8169NA
Selected balance sheet (average)
Total assets
$37,751
$33,780$35,813
Loans21,54516,67818,926
Deposits32,03920,24919,329
Equity3,9025,5075,649
Headcount12,2878,5208,546
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
46JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except ratios)
200420032002
Credit data and quality statistics
Net charge-offs$72
$9$112
Nonperforming loans79173139
Allowance for loan losses
21613097
Allowance for lending-related commitments
54ÑNet charge-off rate
0.33%0.05%0.59%
Allowance for loan losses to average loans
1.000.780.51
Allowance for loan losses to nonperforming 
loans2737570
Nonperforming loans to average loans
0.371.040.73
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Derived from Morningstar for the United States;Micropal for the United Kingdom,
Luxembourg,Hong Kong and Taiwan;and Nomura for Japan.
NA-Data for 2002 is not available on a comparable basis.
Assets under supervision2004 compared with 2003
Assets under supervision (ÒAUSÓ) at December 31,2004 were $1.3 trillion,up

66% from 2003,and Assets under management (ÒAUMÓ) were $791 billion,

up 41% from the prior year.The increases were primarily the result of the

Merger,as well as market appreciation,net asset inflows and the acquisition of

a majority interest in Highbridge Capital Management.The Firm also has a 43%

interest in American Century Companies,Inc.,whose AUM totaled $98 billion

and $87 billion at December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively.Custody,broker-

age,administration,and deposits were $478 billion,up 135%,primarily due to

the Merger,as well as market appreciation and net inflows across all products.
2003 compared with 2002
AUS at December 31,2003,totaled $764 billion,up 19% from the prior year-

end.AUM totaled $561 billion,up 9%,and custody,brokerage,administra-

tion and deposit accounts were $203 billion,up 54%.The increase in AUM

was driven by higher equity market valuations in client portfolios,partly offset

by institutional net outflows.Custody,brokerage,administration and deposits

grew by $70 billion,driven by the acquisition of RPS ($41 billion),higher equity

market valuations in client portfolios and net inflows from Private bank clients.
The diversification of AUS across product classes,client segments and geographic

regions helped to mitigate the impact of market volatility on revenue.The Firm

also had a 44% interest in American Century Companies,Inc.,whose AUM

totaled $87 billion and $72 billion at December 31,2003 and 2002,respectively.
Assets under supervision(a)(b)(in billions)20042003 Asset classLiquidity$232
$156
Fixed income 171118Equities,balanced and other
388287Assets under management 791561Custody/brokerage/administration/deposits
478203Total Assets under supervision 
$1,269
$764
Client segment Private bank
Assets under management $139
$138
Custody/brokerage/administration/deposits
165128Assets under supervision304266Retail
Assets under management 13393Custody/brokerage/administration/deposits
8871Assets under supervision 221164Institutional
Assets under management 466322Custody/brokerage/administration/deposits
184ÑAssets under supervision650322Private client services
Assets under management 538Custody/brokerage/administration/deposits
414Assets under supervision9412Total Assets under supervision
$1,269
$764
Geographic region
Americas
Assets under management $562
$365
Custody/brokerage/administration/deposits
444168Assets under supervision1,006533International
Assets under management 229196Custody/brokerage/administration/deposits
3435Assets under supervision263231Total Assets under supervision
$1,269
$764
Memo:Mutual fund assets:Liquidity$183
$103
Fixed income4127Equity,balanced and other
10483Total mutual funds assets
$328
$213
Assets under supervision rollforward
(b)Beginning balance$764
$642
Net asset flows25(16)Acquisitions(c)38341Market/other impact
9797Ending balance$1,269
$764
(a)Excludes Assets under management of American Century.
(b)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(c)Reflects the Merger with Bank One ($376 billion) in the third quarter of 2004,the acquisi-
tion of a majority interest in Highbridge Capital Management ($7 billion) in the fourth quar-
ter of 2004 and the acquisition of RPS in the second quarter of 2003.AWMÕs client segments are comprised of the following:
The 
Private bankaddresses every facet of wealth management for
ultra-high-net-worth individuals and families worldwide,including invest-

ment management,capital markets and risk management,tax and estate

planning,banking,capital raising and specialty wealth advisory services.
Retailprovides more than 2 million customers worldwide with investmentmanagement,retirement planning and administration,and brokerage

services through third-party and direct distribution channels.
Institutionalserves more than 3,000 large and mid-size corporate and
public institutions,endowments and foundations,and governments globally.

AWM offers institutions comprehensive global investment services,

including investment management across asset classes,pension analytics,

asset-liability management,active risk budgeting and overlay strategies.
Private client servicesoffers high-net-worth individuals,families 
and business owners comprehensive wealth management solutions 
that include financial planning,personal trust,investment and banking

products and services.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
47Corporate
The Corporate sector is comprised of Private Equity,Treasury,
and corporate staff and other centrallymanaged expenses.

Private Equity includes 
JPMorgan Partners and ONE Equity
Partners businesses.Tr
easury manages the structural interest
raterisk and investment portfolio for the Firm.
The corporate
staff areas include Central Technology and Operations,
InternalAudit,Executive Office,Finance,General Services,Human

Resources,Marketing & Communications,O
ffice of the General
Counsel,Real Estate and Business Services,Risk
Management,and Strategy and Development.Other centrally managed

expenses include items such as the FirmÕs occupancy and pen-

sion expense,net of allocations to the business.
Selected income statement data Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200420032002
RevenueSecurities/private equity gains 
$1,786
$1,031$334
Other income(2)214(11)
Noninterest revenue
1,7841,245323
Net interest income
(1,222)(177)(45)
Total net revenue
5621,068278
Provision for credit losses(110)124133
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense2,4261,8931,867
Noncompensation expense4,0883,2162,711
Net expenses allocated to other businesses(5,213)(4,580)(4,070)
Total noninterest expense
1,301529508
Operating earnings before income 
tax expense(629)415(363)
Income tax expense (benefit)(690)(253)(128)
Operating earnings
$61
$668$(235)
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
2004 compared with 2003
Operating earnings were $61 million,down from earnings of $668 million in

the prior year.
Noninterest revenue was $1.8 billion,up 43% from the prior year.The pri-
mary component of noninterest revenue is Securities/private equity gains,

which totaled $1.8 billion,up 73% from the prior year.The increase was a

result of net gains in the Private Equity portfolio of $1.4 billion in 2004,com-

pared with $27 million in net gains in 2003.Partially offsetting these gains

were lower investment securities gains in Treasury.
Net interest income was a negative $1.2 billion,compared with a negative
$177 million in the prior year.The decline was driven primarily by actions and

policies adopted in conjunction with the Merger.
Noninterest expense of $1.3 billion was up $772 million from the prior year

due to the Merger.The Merger resulted in higher gross compensation and

noncompensation expenses,which were partially offset by higher allocation 

of these expenses to the businesses.Incremental allocations to the businesses

were lower than the gross expense increase due to certain policies adopted in
conjunction with the Merger.These policies retain overhead costs that would

not be incurred by the lines of business if operated on a stand-alone basis,as

well as costs in excess of the market price for services provided by the corpo-

rate staff and technology and operations areas.
On September 15,2004,JPMorgan Chase and IBM announced the FirmÕs plans
to reintegrate the portions of its technology infrastructure Ð including data

centers,help desks,distributed computing,data networks and voice networks

Ð that were previously outsourced to IBM.In January 2005,approximately

3,100 employees and 800 contract employees were transferred to the Firm.
2003 compared with 2002
For 2003,Corporate had operating earnings of $668 million,compared 

with an operating loss of $235 million in 2002,driven primarily by higher

gains in the Private Equity portfolio and income tax benefits not allocated to 

the business segments.
Selected metrics Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except headcount)
200420032002
Selected average balance sheet
Short-term investments(b)$14,590
$4,076$7,691
Investment portfolio(c)63,47563,50661,816
Goodwill(d)21,7732931,166
Total assets 
162,234104,39597,089
Headcount24,80613,39116,960
Treasury
Securities gains (losses)(e)$347
$999$1,073
Investment portfolio (average)
57,77656,29954,197
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)  Represents Federal funds sold,Securities borrowed,Trading assets Ð debt and equity instru-
ments and Trading assets Ð derivative receivables.
(c)Represents Investment securities and private equity investments.

(d)  As of July 1,2004,the Firm changed the allocation methodology of goodwill to retain all
goodwill in Corporate.
(e) Excludes gains/losses on securities used to manage risk associated with MSRs.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
48JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Selected income statement and balance sheet data Ð Private equityYear ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200420032002
Private equity gains (losses)Direct investmentsRealized gains$1,423
$535$452
Write-ups / write-downs(192)(404)(825)
Mark-to-market gains (losses)
164215(210)
Total direct investments
1,395346(583)
Third-party fund investments 
34(319)(150)
Total private equity gains (losses)
1,42927(733)
Other income534759
Net interest income(271)(264)(302)
Total net revenue
1,211(190)(976)
Total noninterest expense
288268296
Operating earnings (loss) before income 
tax expense923(458)(1,272)
Income tax expense (benefit)321(168)(466)
Operating earnings (losses)
$602
$(290)$(806)
Private equity portfolio information(b)Direct investments
Public securities
Carrying value
$1,170
$643$520
Cost744451663
Quoted public value
1,758994761
Private direct securities
Carrying value
5,6865,5085,865
Cost7,1786,9607,316
Third-party fund investments
(c)Carrying value
6411,0991,843
Cost1,0421,7362,333
Total private equity portfolio
Carrying value
$7,497
$7,250$8,228
Cost$8,964
$9,147$10,312
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)For further information on the FirmÕs policies regarding the valuation of the private equity
portfolio,see Note 9 on pages 98Ð100 of this Annual Report.
(c)Unfunded commitments to private third-party equity funds were $563 million,$1.3 billion
and $2.0 billion at December 31,2004,2003 and 2002,respectively.
2004 compared with 2003
Private EquityÕs operating earnings for the year totaled $602 million,com-

pared with a loss of $290 million in 2003.This improvement reflected a 

$1.4 billion increase in total private equity gains.In 2004,markets improved

for investment sales,resulting in $1.4 billion of realized gains on direct

investments,compared with $535 million in 2003.Net write-downs on direct

investments were $192 million in 2004,compared with $404 million in 2003,

as valuations continued to stabilize amid positive market conditions.
The carrying value of the Private Equity portfolio at December 31,2004,
was $7.5 billion,an increase of $247 million from December 31,2003.The

increase was primarily the result of the Merger.Otherwise,the portfolio

declined as a result of sales of investments,consistent with managementÕs

intention to reduce over time the capital committed to private equity.Sales 

of third-party fund investments resulted in a decrease in carrying value of 

$458 million,to $641 million at December 31,2004,compared with 

$1.1 billion at December 31,2003.
2003 compared with 2002
The private equity portfolio recognized negative Total net revenue of 

$190 million and operating losses of $290 million in 2003.Opportunities 

to realize value through sales,recapitalizations and initial public offerings

(ÒIPOsÓ) of investments,although limited,improved during the year as the

M&A and IPO markets started to recover.
Private equity gains totaled $27 million in 2003,compared with losses of
$733 million in 2002.Private equity recognized gains of $346 million on

direct investments and losses of $319 million on sales and writedowns of 
private third-party fund investments.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
49Balance sheet analysisSelected balance sheet dataDecember 31,(in millions)
20042003(a)AssetsTrading assets Ð debt and equity instruments
$222,832
$169,120
Trading assets Ð derivative receivables
65,98283,751Securities:Available-for-sale
94,40260,068Held-to-maturity110176Loans,net of allowance 
394,794210,243Goodwill and other intangible assets57,88714,991All other assets 321,241232,563Total assets
$1,157,248
$770,912
LiabilitiesDeposits$521,456
$326,492
Trading liabilities Ð 
debt and equity instruments87,94278,222Trading liabilities Ð derivative payables
63,26571,226Long-term debt95,42248,014All other liabilities283,510200,804Total liabilities
1,051,595724,758StockholdersÕ equity
105,65346,154Total liabilities and stockholdersÕ equity
$1,157,248
$770,912
(a)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Balance sheet overviewAt December 31,2004,the FirmÕs total assets were $1.2 trillion,an increase

of $386 billion,or 50%,from the prior year,primarily as a result of the

Merger.Merger-related growth in assets was primarily in:Available-for-sale

securities;interests in purchased receivables related to Bank OneÕs conduit

business;wholesale and consumer loans;and goodwill and other intangibles,

which was primarily the result of the purchase accounting impact of the

Merger.Nonmerger-related growth was primarily due to the IBÕs increased

trading activity,which is reflected in securities purchased under resale agree-

ments and securities borrowed,as well as trading assets.
At December 31,2004,the FirmÕs total liabilities were $1.1 trillion,an
increase of $327 billion,or 45%,from the prior year,again primarily as a

result of the Merger.Merger-related growth in liabilities was primarily in

interest-bearing U.S.deposits,long-term debt,trust preferred securities and

beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities.

Nonmerger-related growth in liabilities was primarily driven by increases in

noninterest-bearing U.S.deposits and the IBÕs trading activity,which is 

reflected in securities sold under repurchase agreements,partially offset by

reductions in federal funds purchased.
Trading assets Ð debt and equity instruments
The FirmÕs debt and equity trading assets consist primarily of fixed income

(including government and corporate debt) and cash equity and convertible

instruments used for both market-making and proprietary risk-taking 

activities.The increase over 2003 was primarily due to growth in client-driven 

market-making activities across interest rate,credit and equity markets,as

well as an increase in proprietary trading activities.
Trading assets and liabilities Ð derivative receivables and payables

The Firm uses various interest rate,foreign exchange,equity,credit and com-

modity derivatives for market-making,proprietary risk-taking and risk manage-

ment purposes.The decline from 2003 was primarily due to the FirmÕs election,

effective January 1,2004,to report the fair value of derivative assets and liabili-

ties net of cash received and paid,respectively,under legally enforceable master

netting agreements.For additional information,refer to Credit risk management

and Note 3 on pages 57Ð69 and 90Ð91,respectively,of this Annual Report.
SecuritiesAFS securities include fixed income (e.g.,U.S.Government agency and asset-

backed securities,as well as non-U.S.government and corporate debt) and

equity instruments.The Firm uses AFS securities primarily to manage interest

rate risk.The AFS portfolio grew by $34.3 billion from the 2003 year-end pri-

marily due to the Merger.Partially offsetting the increase were net sales in

the Treasury portfolio since the second quarter of 2004.In anticipation of the

Merger,both heritage firms reduced the level of their AFS securities to reposi-

tion the combined firm.For additional information related to securities,refer

to Note 9 on pages 98Ð100 of this Annual Report.
LoansLoans,net of allowance,were $394.8 billion at December 31,2004,an

increase of 88% from the prior year,primarily due to the Merger.Also contribut-

ing to the increase was growth in both the RFS and CS loan portfolios,partially

offset by lower wholesale loans in the IB.For a more detailed discussion of the

loan portfolio and allowance for credit losses,refer to Credit risk management

on pages 57Ð69 of this Annual Report.
Goodwill and other intangible assetsThe $42.9 billion increase in Goodwill and other intangible assets from the prior

year was primarily the result of the Merger and,to a lesser extent,the FirmÕs

other acquisitions,such as EFS and the majority stake in Highbridge.For addition-

al information,see Note 15 on pages 109Ð111 of this Annual Report.
DepositsDeposits are a key source of funding.The stability of this funding source is

affected by such factors as returns available to customers on alternative invest-

ments,the quality of customer service levels and competitive forces.Deposits

increased by 60% from December 31,2003,primarily the result of the Merger

and growth in deposits in TSS.For more information,refer to the TSS segment

discussion and the Liquidity risk management discussion on pages 43Ð44 and
55Ð56,respectively,of this Annual Report.
Long-term debt
Long-term debt increased by 99% from the prior year,primarily due to the

Merger and net new debt issuances.For additional information on the FirmÕs

long-term debt activity,see the Liquidity risk management discussion on

pages 55Ð56 of this Annual Report.
StockholdersÕ equity
Total stockholdersÕ equity increased by 129% to $105.7 billion,primarily 

as a result of the Merger.For a further discussion of capital,see Capital 

management on pages 50Ð52 of this Annual Report.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
50JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Capital management The FirmÕs capital management framework is intended to ensure that there is
capital sufficient to support the underlying risks of the FirmÕs business activi-

ties,measured by economic risk capital,and to maintain Òwell-capitalizedÓ

status under regulatory requirements.In addition,the Firm holds capital

above these requirements in amounts deemed appropriate to achieve man-
agementÕs debt rating objectives.The FirmÕs capital framework is integrated

into the process of assigning equity to the lines of business.The Firm may

refine its methodology for assigning equity to the lines of business as the
merger integration process continues.
Line of business equityThe FirmÕs framework for allocating capital is based on the following objectives:
¥  Integrate firmwide capital management activities with capital management
activities within each of the lines of business.
¥  Measure performance in each business segment consistently across 
all lines of business.
¥  Provide comparability with peer firms for each of the lines of business.

Equity for a line of business represents the amount the Firm believes thebusiness would require if it were operating independently,incorporating suf-

ficient capital to address economic risk measures,regulatory capital require-

ments,and capital levels for similarly rated peers.Return on equity is meas-

ured and internal targets for expected returns are established as a primary
measure of a business segmentÕs performance.
For performance management purposes,the Firm does not allocate goodwill to
the lines of business because it believes that the accounting-driven allocation of
goodwill could distort assessment of relative returns.In managementÕs view,

this approach fosters better comparison of line of business returns with other
internal business segments,as well as with peers.The Firm assigns an amount

of equity capital equal to the then current book value of its goodwill to the

Corporate segment.The return on invested capital related to the FirmÕs goodwill

assets is managed within this segment.In accordance with SFAS 142,the Firm

allocates goodwill to the lines of business based on the underlying fair values of

the businesses and then performs the required impairment testing.For a further

discussion of goodwill and impairment testing,see Critical accounting estimates

and Note 15 on pages 77Ð79 and 109Ð111 respectively,of this Annual Report.
This integrated approach to assigning equity to the lines of business is a 
new methodology resulting from the Merger.Therefore,current year line of

business equity is not comparable to equity assigned to the lines of business

in prior years.The increase in average common equity in the table below for

2004 was primarily attributable to the Merger.
(in billions)Yearly Average
Line of business equity(a)20042003Investment Bank$17.3
$18.4
Retail Financial Services9.14.2Card Services7.63.4Commercial Banking2.11.1Treasury & Securities Services
2.52.7Asset & Wealth Management
3.95.5Corporate
(b)33.17.7Total common stockholdersÕ equity
$75.6
$43.0
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)2004 includes $25.9 billion of equity to offset goodwill and $7.2 billion of equity primarily
related to Treasury,Private Equity and the Corporate Pension Plan.
Economic risk capitalJPMorgan Chase assesses its capital adequacy relative to the underlying risksof the FirmÕs business activities,utilizing internal risk-assessment methodolo-

gies.The Firm assigns economic capital based primarily on five risk factors:

credit risk,market risk,operational risk and business risk for each business;

and private equity risk,principally for the FirmÕs private equity business.
(in billions)Yearly Average
Economic risk capital(a)20042003Credit risk$16.5
$13.1
Market risk
7.54.5Operational risk
4.53.5Business risk1.91.7Private equity risk
4.55.4Economic risk capital34.928.2Goodwill25.98.1Other(b)14.86.7Total common stockholdersÕ equity
$75.6
$43.0
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Additional capital required to meet internal regulatory/debt rating objectives.
Credit risk capital
Credit risk capital is estimated separately for the wholesale businesses

(Investment Bank,Commercial Banking,Asset & Wealth Management and

Treasury & Securities Services) and consumer businesses (Retail Financial

Services and Card Services).
Credit risk capital for the overall wholesale credit portfolio is defined in terms
of unexpected credit losses,from both defaults and declines in market value

due to credit deterioration,measured over a one-year period at a confidence

level consistent with the level of capitalization necessary to achieve a targeted
ÔAAÕ solvency standard.Unexpected losses are in excess of those for which

provisions for credit losses are maintained.In addition to maturity and corre-

lations,capital allocation is differentiated by several principal drivers of credit

risk:exposure at default (or loan equivalent amount),likelihood of default,

loss severity,and market credit spread.
¥  Loan equivalent amount for counterparty exposures in an over-the-counter
derivative transaction is represented by the expected positive exposure

based on potential movements of underlying market rates.Loan equiva-

lents for unused revolving credit facilities represent the portion of an
unused commitment likely,based on the FirmÕs average portfolio historical

experience,to become outstanding in the event an obligor defaults.
¥  Default likelihood is closely aligned with current market conditions for all
publicly traded names or investment banking clients,yielding a forward-

looking measure of credit risk.This facilitates more active risk management

by utilizing the growing market in credit derivatives and secondary market

loan sales.For privately-held firms in the commercial banking portfolio,default

likelihood is based on longer term averages over an entire credit cycle.
¥  Loss severity of exposure is based on the FirmÕs average historical 
experience during workouts,with adjustments to account for collateral 

or subordination.¥  Market credit spreads are used in the evaluation of changes in exposure
value due to credit deterioration.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
51Credit risk capital for the consumer portfolio is intended to represent a capitallevel sufficient to support an ÔAAÕ rating,and its allocation is based on product

and other relevant risk segmentation.Actual segment level default and severity

experience are used to estimate unexpected losses for a one-year horizon at a
confidence level equivalent to the ÔAAÕ solvency standard.Statistical results for cer-

tain segments or portfolios are adjusted upward to ensure that capital is consis-

tent with external benchmarks,including subordination levels on market transac-

tions and capital held at representative monoline competitors,where appropriate.
Market risk capital
The Firm allocates market risk capital guided by the principle that capital should

reflect the extent to which risks are present in businesses.Daily VAR,monthly

stress-test results and other factors determine appropriate capital charges for
major business segments.See Market risk management on pages 70Ð74 of

this Annual Report for more information about these market risk measures.

The Firm allocates market risk capital to each business segment according to

a formula that weights that segmentÕs VAR and stress test exposures.
Operational risk capital
Capital is allocated to the lines of business for operational risk using a risk-based

capital allocation methodology which estimates operational risk on a bottoms-up

basis.The operational risk capital model is based on actual losses and potential

scenario-based stress losses,with adjustments to the capital calculation to reflect

changes in the quality of the control environment and with a potential offset for
the use of risk-transfer products.The Firm believes the model is consistent with

the new Basel II Framework and expects to propose it eventually for qualification

under the advanced measurement approach for operational risk.
Business risk capitalBusiness risk is defined as the risk associated with volatility in the FirmÕs 

earnings due to factors not captured by other parts of its economic-capital
framework.Such volatility can arise from ineffective design or execution of

business strategies,volatile economic or financial market activity,changing

client expectations and demands,and restructuring to adjust for changes in

the competitive environment.For business risk,capital is allocated to each

business based on historical revenue volatility and measures of fixed and vari-

able expenses.Earnings volatility arising from other risk factors,such as credit,

market,or operational risk,is excluded from the measurement of business risk

capital,as those factors are captured under their respective risk capital models.
Private equity risk capital
Capital is allocated to publicly- and privately-held securities and third party

fund investments and commitments in the Private Equity portfolio to cover

the potential loss associated with a decline in equity markets and related

asset devaluations.In addition to negative market fluctuations,potential loss-

es in private equity investment portfolios can be magnified by liquidity risk.

The capital allocation for the Private Equity portfolio is based upon measure-

ment of the loss experience suffered by the Firm and other market partici-

pants over a prolonged period of adverse equity market conditions.
Regulatory capital The FirmÕs federal banking regulator,the FRB,establishes capital require-

ments,including well-capitalized standards for the consolidated financial

holding company.The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (ÒOCCÓ)

establishes similar capital requirements and standards for the FirmÕs national
banks,including JPMorgan Chase Bank,National Association (ÒJPMorgan
Chase BankÓ) and Chase Bank USA,National Association.
On March 1,2005,the FRB issued a final rule that continues the inclusion
of trust preferred securities in Tier 1 capital,subject to stricter quantitative

limits.The rule provides for a five-year transition period.The Firm is cur-

rently assessing the impact of the final rule.The effective date of the final

rule is dependent on the date of publication in the Federal Register.
On July 20,2004,the federal banking regulatory agencies issued a final rule
that excludes assets of asset-backed commercial paper programs that are

consolidated as a result of FIN 46R from risk-weighted assets for purposes 
of computing Tier 1 and Total risk-based capital ratios.The final rule also

requires that capital be held against short-term liquidity facilities supporting
asset-backed commercial paper programs.The final rule became effective

September 30,2004.Adoption of the rule did not have a material effect on

the capital ratios of the Firm.In addition,under the final rule,both short- and

long-term liquidity facilities will be subject to certain asset quality tests effec-
tive September 30,2005.
The following tables show that JPMorgan Chase maintained a well-capital-
ized position based on Tier 1 and Total capital ratios at December 31,2004

and 2003.Capital ratios
Well-
capitalizedDecember 31,20042003(a)ratios
Tier 1 capital ratio
8.7%8.5%6.0%
Total capital ratio
12.211.810.0
Tier 1 leverage ratio
6.25.6NA
Total stockholdersÕ equity to assets
9.16.0NA
(a)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Risk-based capital components and assetsDecember 31,(in millions)
20042003(a)Total Tier 1 capital
$68,621
$43,167
Total Tier 2 capital
28,18616,649Total capital
$96,807
$59,816
Risk-weighted assets$791,373
$507,456
Total adjusted average assets
1,102,456765,910(a)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Tier 1 capital was $68.6 billion at December 31,2004,compared with $43.2
billion at December 31,2003,an increase of $25.4 billion.The increase was

due to an increase in common stockholdersÕ equity of $60.2 billion,primarily

driven by stock issued in connection with the Merger of $57.3 billion and net
income of $4.5 billion;these were partially offset by dividends paid of $3.9

billion and common share repurchases of $738 million.The Merger added 

Tier 1 components such as $3.0 billion of additional qualifying trust preferred

securities and $493 million of minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries;
Tier 1 deductions resulting from the Merger included $34.1 billion of merger-

related goodwill,and $3.4 billion of nonqualifying intangibles.
Additional information regarding the FirmÕs capital ratios and the associated com-
ponents and assets,and a more detailed discussion of federal regulatory capital

standards are presented in Note 24 on pages 116Ð117 of this Annual Report.
OffÐbalance sheet arrangements and contractual cash obligations
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
52JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Special-purpose entitiesJPMorgan Chase is involved with several types of off-balance sheet arrange-
ments including special purpose entities (ÒSPEsÓ),lines of credit and loan

commitments.The principal uses of SPEs are to obtain sources of liquidity for

JPMorgan Chase and its clients by securitizing their financial assets,and to

create other investment products for clients.These arrangements are an

important part of the financial markets,providing market liquidity by facilitat-

ing investorsÕ access to specific portfolios of assets and risks.For example,

SPEs are integral to the markets for mortgage-backed securities,commercial

paper,and other asset-backed securities.
The basic SPE structure involves a company selling assets to the SPE.The SPE
funds the purchase of those assets by issuing securities to investors.To insu-

late investors from creditors of other entities,including the seller of assets,

SPEs are often structured to be bankruptcy-remote.
JPMorgan Chase is involved with SPEs in three broad categories of transac-
tions:loan securitizations,multi-seller conduits and client intermediation.

Capital is held,as appropriate,against all SPE-related transactions and relat-

ed exposures,such as derivative transactions and lending-related commit-

ments.For a further discussion of SPEs and the FirmÕs accounting for them,

see Note 1 on page 88,Note 13 on pages 103Ð106 and Note 14 on pages

106Ð109 of this Annual Report.
The Firm has no commitments to issue its own stock to support any SPE
transaction,and its policies require that transactions with SPEs be conducted

at armÕs length and reflect market pricing.Consistent with this policy,no

JPMorgan Chase employee is permitted to invest in SPEs with which the Firm
is involved where such investment would violate the FirmÕs Worldwide Rules
of Conduct.These rules prohibit employees from self-dealing and prohibit
employees from acting on behalf of the Firm in transactions with which they

or their family have any significant financial interest.For certain liquidity commitments to SPEs,the Firm could be required to pro-
vide funding if the credit rating of JPMorgan Chase Bank were downgraded

below specific levels,primarily P-1,A-1 and F1 for MoodyÕs,Standard & PoorÕs

and Fitch,respectively.The amount of these liquidity commitments was $79.4

billion and $34.0 billion at December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively.

Alternatively,if JPMorgan Chase Bank were downgraded,the Firm could be

replaced by another liquidity provider in lieu of funding under the liquidity
commitment,or,in certain circumstances,could facilitate the sale or refinanc-

ing of the assets in the SPE in order to provide liquidity.
Of its $79.4 billion in liquidity commitments to SPEs at December 31,2004,
$47.7 billion is included in the FirmÕs total other unfunded commitments to

extend credit,included in the table below (compared with $27.7 billion at

December 31,2003).As a result of the FirmÕs consolidation of multi-seller

conduits in accordance with FIN 46R,$31.7 billion of these commitments are

excluded from the table (compared with $6.3 billion at December 31,2003),

as the underlying assets of the SPEs have been included on the FirmÕs

Consolidated balance sheets.
The revenue reported in the table below primarily represents servicing and
custodial fee income.The Firm also has exposure to certain SPEs arising from

derivative transactions;these transactions are recorded at fair value on the

FirmÕs Consolidated balance sheets with changes in fair value (i.e.,MTM

gains and losses) recorded in Trading revenue.Such MTM gains and losses

are not included in the revenue amounts reported in the table below.
Basel IIThe Basel Committee on Banking Supervision published the new Basel II

Framework in 2004 in an effort to update the original international bank 

capital accord (ÒBasel IÓ),in effect since 1988.The goal of the Basel II

Framework is to improve the consistency of capital requirements internation-

ally,make regulatory capital more risk sensitive,and promote enhanced risk

management practices among large,internationally active banking organizations.

JPMorgan Chase supports the overall objectives of the Basel II Framework.
U.S.banking regulators are in the process of incorporating the Basel II
Framework into the existing risk-based capital requirements.JPMorgan Chase

will be required to implement advanced measurement techniques employing

its internal estimates of certain key risk drivers to derive capital requirements.

Prior to implementation of the new Basel II Framework,JPMorgan Chase will

be required to demonstrate to the FRB that its internal criteria meet the rele-

vant supervisory standards.The Basel II Framework will be fully effective in

January 2008.JPMorgan Chase expects to implement the Basel II Framework

within this timeframe.
JPMorgan Chase is currently analyzing local Basel II requirements in majorjurisdictions outside the U.S.where it operates.Based on the results of this

analysis,different approaches may be implemented in various jurisdictions.
DividendsThe FirmÕs common stock dividend policy reflects its earnings outlook,desired

payout ratios,the need to maintain an adequate capital level and alternative

investment opportunities.In 2004,JPMorgan Chase declared a quarterly cash

dividend on its common stock of $0.34 per share.The Firm anticipates a divi-

dend payout ratio in 2005 of 30-40% of operating earnings.
Stock repurchases
On July 20,2004,the Board of Directors approved an initial stock repurchase

program in the aggregate amount of $6.0 billion.This amount includes shares

to be repurchased to offset issuances under the FirmÕs employee equity-based

plans.The actual amount of shares repurchased will be subject to various fac-

tors,including market conditions;legal considerations affecting the amount

and timing of repurchase activity;the FirmÕs capital position (taking into

account purchase accounting adjustments);internal capital generation;and

alternative potential investment opportunities.During 2004,under the stock

repurchase program,the Firm repurchased 19.3 million shares for $738 mil-

lion at an average price per share of $38.27.The Firm did not repurchase any

shares of its common stock during 2003.JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
53The following table summarizes certain revenue information related to 
variable interest entities (ÒVIEsÓ) with which the Firm has significant involve-

ment,and qualifying SPEs (ÒQSPEsÓ).For a further discussion of VIEs and

QSPEs,see Note 1 on page 88 of this Annual Report.
Revenue from VIEs and QSPEs
Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)VIEs
(b)QSPEsTotal
2004$154$1,438$1,592
2003799791,058
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Includes VIE-related revenue (i.e.,revenue associated with consolidated and significant 
nonconsolidated VIEs).Contractual cash obligations
In the normal course of business,the Firm enters into various contractual 

obligations that may require future cash payments.The accompanying table

summarizes JPMorgan ChaseÕs offÐbalance sheet lending-related financial
instruments and significant contractual cash obligations,by remaining maturity,
at December 31,2004.For a discussion regarding Long-term debt and trust

preferred capital securities,see Note 17 on pages 112Ð113 of this Annual

Report.For a discussion regarding operating leases,see Note 25 on page 117

of this Annual Report.
Contractual purchases include commitments for future cash expenditures,pri-
marily related to services.Capital expenditures primarily represent future cash

payments for real estateÐrelated obligations and equipment.Contractual pur-

chases and capital expenditures at December 31,2004,reflect the minimum

contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with contract terms

that are both fixed and determinable.Excluded from the following table are 

a number of obligations to be settled in cash,primarily in under one year.

These obligations are reflected on the FirmÕs Consolidated balance sheets 

and include Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase

agreements;Other borrowed funds;purchases of Debt and equity instruments

that settle within standard market timeframes (e.g.,regular-way);Derivative

payables that do not require physical delivery of the underlying instrument;

and certain purchases of instruments that resulted in settlement failures.
OffÐbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments
By remaining maturity at December 31,2004 Under1Ð33Ð5After
(in millions)1 yearyearsyears5 yearsTotal
Consumer$552,748$3,603$2,799$42,046$601,196
Wholesale:Other unfunded commitments to extend credit(a)(b)114,55557,18348,9874,427225,152
Standby letters of credit and guarantees
(a)22,78530,80521,3873,10778,084
Other letters of credit(a)4,6311,297190456,163
Total wholesale
141,97189,28570,5647,579309,399
Total lending-related commitments
$694,719$92,888$73,363$49,625$910,595
Contractual cash obligations
By remaining maturity at December 31,2004 (in millions)
Certificates of deposit of $100,000 and over$38,946$7,941$1,176$1,221$49,284
Long-term debt15,83330,89023,52725,17295,422
Trust preferred capital securities
ÑÑÑ10,29610,296
FIN 46R long-term beneficial interests(c)3,0727082032,4106,393
Operating leases
(d)1,0601,8781,6145,3019,853
Contractual purchases and capital expenditures
1,7915182521812,742
Obligations under affinity and co-brand programs
8682,4421,08664,402
Other liabilities(e)9681,5671,8856,54610,966
Total 
$62,538$45,944$29,743$51,133$
189,358(a)Represents contractual amount net of risk participations totaling $26 billion at December 31,2004.
(b)Includes unused advised lines of credit totaling $23 billion at December 31,2004,which are not legally binding.In regulatory
 filings with the FRB,unused advised lines are not reportable.
(c)Included on the Consolidated balance sheets in Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities.

(d)Excludes benefit of noncancelable sublease rentals of $689 million at December 31,2004.

(e)Includes deferred annuity contracts and expected funding for pension and other postretirement benefits for 2005.Funding requ
irements for pension and postretirement benefits after 2005 areexcluded due to the significant variability in the assumptions required to project the timing of future cash payments.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
54JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Risk managementRisk is an inherent part of JPMorgan ChaseÕs business activities.The FirmÕs
risk management framework and governance structure is intended to provide

comprehensive controls and ongoing management of its major risks.In addi-

tion,this framework recognizes the diversity among the FirmÕs core business-

es,which helps reduce the impact of volatility in any particular area on its

operating results as a whole.
The FirmÕs ability to properly identify,measure,monitor and report risk is 
critical to its soundness and profitability.
¥  Risk identification:The Firm identifies risk by dynamically assessing 
the potential impact of internal and external factors on transactions and

positions.Business and risk professionals develop appropriate mitigation

strategies for the identified risks.
¥  Risk measurement
:The Firm measures risk using a variety of method-
ologies,including calculating probable loss,unexpected loss and value-at-

risk,and by conducting stress tests and making comparisons to external

benchmarks.Measurement models and related assumptions are routinely

reviewed to ensure that the FirmÕs risk estimates are reasonable and reflec-

tive of underlying positions.
¥  Risk monitoring/Control:
The Firm establishes risk management policies
and procedures.These policies contain approved limits by customer,prod-

uct and business that are monitored on a daily,weekly and monthly basis

as appropriate.
¥  Risk reporting:
Risk reporting covers all lines of business and is providedto management on a daily,weekly and monthly basis as appropriate.
Risk governanceThe FirmÕs risk governance structure is built upon the premise that each line

of business is responsible for managing the risks inherent in its business
activity.There are seven major risk types identified in the business activities 

of the Firm:liquidity risk,credit risk,market risk,operational risk,legal and

reputation risk,fiduciary risk and principal risk.As part of the risk manage-

ment structure,each line of business has a Risk Committee responsible for

decisions relating to risk strategy,policies and control.Where appropriate,

the Risk Committees escalate risk issues to the FirmÕs Operating Committee,

comprised of senior officers of the Firm,or to the Risk Working Group,a sub-

group of the Operating Committee.
In addition to the Risk Committees,there is an Asset & Liability Committee
(ÒALCOÓ),which oversees structural interest rate and liquidity risk as well 

as the FirmÕs funds transfer pricing policy,through which lines of business

transfer market-hedgable interest rate risk to Treasury.Treasury also has

responsibility for decisions relating to its risk strategy,policies and control.

There is also an Investment Committee,which reviews key aspects of the

FirmÕs global M&A activities that are undertaken for its own account and

that fall outside the scope of established private equity and other principal

finance activities.
Operating Committee
(OC)Asset & Liability Committee 
(ALCO) CommercialBankingRisk CommitteeInvestment CommitteeInvestment Bank Risk Committee &Executive IBRisk CommitteeRetail FinancialServices Risk &Credit Policy
CommitteeCard ServicesRisk CommitteeTreasury & 
Securities ServicesRisk CommitteeAsset & Wealth
ManagementRisk CommitteeRisk ManagementWholesaleCredit RiskConsumerCredit RiskMarket 
RiskFiduciary RiskPrincipal RiskTechnology &
Operations
RiskManagementServicesOperational 
RiskOverlaying risk management within the lines of business is the corporate
function of Risk Management which,under the direction of the Chief Risk

Officer reporting to the President and Chief Operating Officer,provides an

independent firmwide function for control and management of risk.Within
Risk Management are those units responsible for credit risk,market risk,
operational risk,fiduciary risk,principal risk,and risk technology and opera-

tions,as well as Risk Management Services,which is responsible for credit

risk policy and methodology,risk reporting and risk education.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
55The Board of Directors exercises oversight of risk management as a whole and
through the BoardÕs Audit Committee and the Risk Policy Committee.The Audit

Committee is responsible for oversight of guidelines and policies to govern the
process by which risk assessment and management is undertaken.In addition,

the Audit Committee reviews with management the system of internal con-

trols and financial reporting that is relied upon to provide reasonable assur-
ance of compliance with the FirmÕs operational risk management processes.

The Risk Policy Committee is responsible for oversight of managementÕs
responsibilities to assess and manage the FirmÕs credit risk,market risk,inter-
est rate risk,investment risk and liquidity risk,and is also responsible for

review of the FirmÕs fiduciary and asset management activities.Both commit-

tees are responsible for oversight of reputational risk.The Chief Risk Officer

and other management report on the risks of the Firm to the Board of Directors,

particularly through the BoardÕs Audit Committee and Risk Policy Committee.
The major risk types identified by the Firm are discussed in the following 
sections.
Liquidity risk management Liquidity risk arises from the general funding needs of the FirmÕs activities and

in the management of its assets and liabilities.JPMorgan ChaseÕs liquidity

management framework is intended to maximize liquidity access and mini-

mize funding costs.Through active liquidity management,the Firm seeks to

preserve stable,reliable and cost-effective sources of funding.This enables the

Firm to replace maturing obligations when due and fund assets at appropri-
ate maturities and rates in all market environments.To accomplish this,man-

agement uses a variety of liquidity risk measures that take into consideration

market conditions,prevailing interest rates,liquidity needs and the desired

maturity profile of liabilities.
Risk identification and measurement
Treasury is responsible for setting the FirmÕs liquidity strategy and targets,

understanding the FirmÕs on- and off-balance sheet liquidity obligations,pro-

viding policy guidance,overseeing policy adherence,and maintaining contin-

gency planning and stress testing.In addition,it identifies and measures

internal and external liquidity warning signals,such as the unusual widening

of spreads,to permit early detection of liquidity issues.
The FirmÕs three primary measures of liquidity are:

¥  Holding company short-term position:Measures the parent holding 
companyÕs ability to repay all obligations with a maturity less than one

year at a time when the ability of the FirmÕs banks to pay dividends to 

the parent holding company is constrained.
¥  Cash capital surplus:Measures the FirmÕs ability to fund assets on a 
fully collateralized basis,assuming access to unsecured funding is lost.
¥  Basic surplus:Measures JPMorgan Chase BankÕs ability to sustain a 
90-day stress event that is specific to the Firm where no new funding 
can be raised to meet obligations as they come due.
All three primary liquidity measures are managed to provide sufficient surplusin the FirmÕs liquidity position.
Risk monitoring and reporting
Treasury is responsible for measuring,monitoring,reporting and managing

the liquidity profile of the Firm through both normal and stress periods.

Treasury analyzes reports to monitor the diversity and maturity structure of the

FirmÕs sources of funding,and to assess downgrade impact scenarios,contin-

gent funding needs,and overall collateral availability and pledging status.

A contingency funding plan is in place,intended to help the Firm manage

through periods when access to funding is temporarily impaired.A down-

grade analysis considers the potential impact of a one- and two-notch 
downgrade at both the parent and bank level,and calculates the estimated
loss of funding as well as the increase in annual funding costs in both scenar-
ios.A trigger-risk funding analysis considers the impact of a bank downgrade

below A-1/P-1,including the funding requirements that would be required if

such an event were to occur.These liquidity analytics rely on managementÕs

judgment about JPMorgan ChaseÕs ability to liquidate assets or use them as

collateral for borrowings and take into account credit risk managementÕs his-

torical data on the funding of loan commitments (e.g.,commercial paper

back-up facilities),liquidity commitments to SPEs,commitments with rating

triggers and collateral posting requirements.For a further discussion of SPEs

and other offÐbalance sheet arrangements,see OffÐbalance sheet arrange-

ments and contractual cash obligations on pages 52Ð53,as well as Note 1,

Note 13,Note 14 and Note 27 on pages 88,103Ð106,106Ð109,and

119Ð120,respectively,of this Annual Report.
Funding Sources of funds

The diversity of the FirmÕs funding sources enhances financial flexibility and

limits dependence on any one source,thereby minimizing the cost of funds.

A major source of liquidity for JPMorgan Chase Bank is provided by its large
core deposit base.Core deposits include all U.S.deposits insured by the FDIC,

up to the legal limit of $100,000 per depositor.In 2004,core bank deposits

grew approximately 116% from 2003 year-end levels,primarily the result of

the Merger,as well as growth within RFS and TSS.In addition to core deposits,

the Firm benefits from substantial,stable deposit balances originated by TSS,

Commercial Banking and the IB through the normal course of their businesses.
Additional funding flexibility is provided by the FirmÕs ability to access the
repurchase and asset securitization markets.At December 31,2004,$72 bil-

lion of securities were available for repurchase agreements,and $36 billion of

credit card,automobile and mortgage loans were available for securitizations.

These alternatives are evaluated on an ongoing basis to achieve an appropri-

ate balance of secured and unsecured funding.The ability to securitize loans,

and the associated gains on those securitizations,are principally dependent

on the credit quality and yields of the assets securitized and are generally not

dependent on the credit ratings of the issuing entity.Transactions between

the Firm and its securitization structures are reflected in JPMorgan ChaseÕs

consolidated financial statements;these relationships include retained inter-

ests in securitization trusts,liquidity facilities and derivative transactions.

For further details,see Notes 13 and 14 on pages 103Ð106 and 106Ð109,

respectively,of thisAnnual Report.
Credit ratings
The credit ratings of JPMorgan ChaseÕs parent holding company and each of its significant banking subsidiaries,as of December 3
1,2004,were as follows:
Short-term debtSenior long-term debt
MoodyÕsS&PFitchMoodyÕsS&PFitch
JPMorgan Chase & Co.P-1A-1F1Aa3A+A+
JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.P-1A-1+F1+Aa2AA-A+
Chase Bank USA,N.A.P-1A-1+F1+Aa2AA-A+
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
56JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
The Firm is an active participant in the global financial markets.These markets
serve as a cost-effective source of funds and are a critical component of the
FirmÕs liquidity management.Decisions concerning the timing and tenor of

accessing these markets are based on relative costs,general market conditions,

prospective views of balance sheet growth and a targeted liquidity profile.
IssuanceCorporate credit spreads narrowed in 2004 across most industries and sec-

tors,reflecting the market perception that credit risks were improving,as the

number of downgrades declined,corporate balance sheet cash positions

increased,and corporate profits exceeded expectations.JPMorgan ChaseÕs

credit spreads performed in line with peer spreads in 2004.The Firm took

advantage of narrowing credit spreads globally by opportunistically issuing

long-term debt and capital securities throughout the year.Consistent with its

liquidity management policy,the Firm has raised funds at the parent holding
company sufficient to cover maturing obligations over the next 12 monthsand to support the less liquid assets on its balance sheet.High investor cash

positions and increased foreign investor participation in the corporate markets

allowed JPMorgan Chase to diversify further its funding across the global
markets while decreasing funding costs and lengthening maturities.
During 2004,JPMorgan Chase issued approximately $25.3 billion of long-
term debt and capital securities.These issuances were partially offset by 

$16.0 billion of long-term debt and capital securities that matured or were
redeemed,and the FirmÕs redemption of $670 million of preferred stock.In

addition,in 2004 the Firm securitized approximately $6.5 billion of residential

mortgage loans,$8.9 billion of credit card loans and $1.6 billion of automo-

bile loans,resulting in pre-tax gains (losses) on securitizations of $47 million,

$52 million and $(3) million,respectively.For a further discussion of loan

securitizations,see Note 13 on pages 103Ð106 of this Annual Report.
The FirmÕs principal insurance subsidiaries had the following financial strength
ratings as of December 31,2004:
MoodyÕsS&PA.M.Best
Chase Insurance Life and Annuity CompanyA2A+A
Chase Insurance Life CompanyA2A+A
In connection with the Merger,MoodyÕs upgraded the ratings of the Firm by
one notch,moving the parent holding companyÕs senior long-term debt rating

to Aa3 and JPMorgan Chase BankÕs senior long-term debt rating to Aa2;and

changed its outlook to stable.Also at that time,Fitch affirmed its ratings and

changed its outlook to positive,while S&P affirmed all its ratings and kept its

outlook stable.
The cost and availability of unsecured financing are influenced by credit rat-
ings.A reduction in these ratings could adversely affect the FirmÕs access to
liquidity sources,increase the cost of funds,trigger additional collateral
requirements and decrease the number of investors and counterparties willing
to lend.Critical factors in maintaining high credit ratings include a stable and

diverse earnings stream;strong capital ratios;strong credit quality and risk

management controls;diverse funding sources;and strong liquidity monitor-

ing procedures.
If the FirmÕs ratings were downgraded by one notch,the Firm estimates the
incremental cost of funds and the potential loss of funding to be negligible.

Additionally,the Firm estimates the additional funding requirements for VIEs

and other third-party commitments would not be material.In the current

environment,the Firm believes a downgrade is unlikely.For additional infor-

mation on the impact of a credit ratings downgrade on funding requirements

for VIEs,and on derivatives and collateral agreements,see OffÐbalance Sheet

Arrangements on pages 52Ð53 and Ratings profile of derivative receivables 

mark-to-market (ÒMTMÓ) on page 64,of thisAnnual Report.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
57Credit risk management 
Credit risk is the risk of loss from obligor or counterparty default.The Firm
provides credit to customers of all sizes,from large corporate clients to loans

for the individual consumer.Management manages the risk/reward relation-

ship of each portfolio,discouraging the retention of loan assets that do not

generate a positive return above the cost of risk-adjusted capital.The FirmÕs

business strategy for its large corporate wholesale loan portfolio remains pri-

marily one of origination for distribution;the majority of the FirmÕs wholesale
Credit risk organization
ConsumerWholesale
Oversees risk managementChief Risk Officer &Deputy Risk OfficerConsumerCredit Risk Management
Credit Risk
ManagementCredit
Portfolio Group
Risk Management Services¥Manages risk in credit positions
from traditional lending and deriva-

tive trading activities,through the

purchase or sale of credit derivative

hedges,other market instruments

and secondary market loan sales
¥Manages derivatives collateral risk
¥Approves all credit exposure;
authority varies based on aggregate

size of clientÕs credit exposure and

the size,maturity and risk level 

of transaction¥Assigns risk ratings

¥Collaborates with client 
executives to monitor credit 
quality via periodic reviews of 
client documentation,financial 

data and industry trends¥In terms of workouts and restruc-
turings,the Special Credits Group

manages criticized wholesale 
exposures ¥Formulates credit policies,limits
and guidelines¥Addresses credit risk methodolo-
gies,including counterparty risk

and credit risk capital allocation¥Prepares reports used for 
monitoring,decision-making 

and external reporting¥Prepares Allowance for credit 
losses for appropriateness review
by LOBs and senior management¥Establishes a comprehensive
Consumer Risk Policy Framework

for Retail Financial Services and

Card Services¥Assigns and manages credit 
authorities to all consumer 
senior risk officers¥Formulates credit policies and limits;
prepares allowance for credit losses

for appropriateness review by LOBs
and senior management¥Monitors consumer credit risk 
performance across all portfolio
segments,in order to ensure an

appropriate risk/return relationship
consistent with the FirmÕs risk 

profile¥Ensures appropriate credit 
riskÐbased capital management 
for consumer businesses¥Monitors economic trends 
to manage emerging risk in 
consumer portfolioloan originations (primarily to IB clients) continue to be distributed into themarketplace,with residual holds by the Firm averaging less than 10%.With

regard to the prime consumer credit market,the Firm focuses on creating a

portfolio that is diversified from both a product and a geographical perspective.
The FirmÕs credit risk management governance structure consists of the pri-
mary functions as described in the organizational chart below.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
58JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
In 2004,the Firm continued to enhance its risk management discipline,
managing wholesale single-name and industry concentration through its

threshold and limit structure and using credit derivatives and loan sales in

its portfolio management activity.The Firm manages wholesale exposure

concentrations by obligor,risk rating,industry and geography.In addition,

the Firm continued to make progress under its multi-year initiative to

reengineer specific components of the credit risk infrastructure.The goal is

to enhance the FirmÕs ability to provide immediate and accurate risk and

exposure information;actively manage credit risk in the retained portfolio;

support client relationships;more quickly manage the allocation of economic

capital;and comply with Basel II initiatives.
In 2004,the Firm continued to grow its consumer loan portfolio,focusing
on businesses providing the most appropriate risk/reward relationship while

keeping within the FirmÕs desired risk tolerance.During the past year,the

Firm also completed a strategic review of all consumer lending portfolio

segments.This action resulted in the sale of the $4 billion manufactured

home loan portfolio,de-emphasizing vehicle leasing and,subsequent to

year-end 2004,the sale of a $2 billion recreational vehicle portfolio.

Continued growth in the core consumer lending product set (residential real
estate,auto and education finance,credit cards and small business) reflected

a focus on the prime credit quality segment of the market.
Risk identificationThe Firm is exposed to credit risk through its lending (e.g.,loans and lending-

related commitments),derivatives trading and capital markets activities.

Credit risk also arises due to country or sovereign exposure,as well as 

indirectly through the issuance of guarantees.
Risk measurement
To measure credit risk,the Firm employs several methodologies for estimating

the likelihood of obligor or counterparty default.Losses generated by con-

sumer loans are more predictable than wholesale losses but are subject to
cyclical and seasonal factors.Although the frequency of loss is higher on con-

sumer loans than on wholesale loans,the severity of loss is typically lower

and more manageable.As a result of these differences,methodologies vary

depending on certain factors,including type of asset (e.g.,consumer install-

ment versus wholesale loan),risk measurement parameters (e.g.,delinquency

status and credit bureau score versus wholesale risk rating) and risk manage-

ment and collection processes (e.g.,retail collection center versus centrally

managed workout groups).
Credit risk measurement is based on the amount of exposure should theobligor or the counterparty default,and the loss severity given a default event.

Based on these factors and related market-based inputs,the Firm estimates

both probable and unexpected losses for the wholesale and consumer portfo-
lios.Probable losses,reflected in the Provision for credit losses,are statistically-

based estimates of credit losses over time,anticipated as a result of obligor 

or counterparty default.However,probable losses are not the sole indicators

of risk.If losses were entirely predictable,the probable loss rate could be 

factored into pricing and covered as a normal and recurring cost of doing
business.Unexpected losses,reflected in the allocation of credit risk capital,

represent the potential volatility of actual losses relative to the probable level
of losses (refer to Capital management on pages 50Ð51 of this Annual Report

for a further discussion of the credit risk capital methodology).Risk measure-

ment for the wholesale portfolio is primarily based on risk-rated exposure;

and for the consumer portfolio it is based on credit-scored exposure.
Risk-rated exposure For portfolios that are risk-rated,probable and unexpected loss calculations

are based on estimates of probability of default and loss given default.
Probability of default is expected default calculated on an obligor basis.Loss

given default is an estimate of losses that are based on collateral and struc-

tural support for each credit facility.Calculations and assumptions are based

on management information systems and methodologies under continual
review.Risk ratings are assigned and reviewed on an ongoing basis by Credit

Risk Management and revised,if needed,to reflect the borrowersÕ current

risk profile and the related collateral and structural position.
Credit-scored exposureFor credit-scored portfolios (generally Retail Financial Services and Card

Services),probable loss is based on a statistical analysis of inherent 

losses over discrete periods of time.Probable losses are estimated using

sophisticated portfolio modeling,credit scoring and decision-support tools

to project credit risks and establish underwriting standards.In addition,

common measures of credit quality derived from historical loss experience
are used to predict consumer losses.Other risk characteristics evaluated

include recent loss experience in the portfolios,changes in origination

sources,portfolio seasoning,loss severity and underlying credit practices,

including charge-off policies.These analyses are applied to the FirmÕs 

current portfolios in order to forecast delinquencies and severity of losses,

which determine the amount of probable losses.These factors and analyses

are updated on a quarterly basis.
Risk monitoringThe Firm has developed policies and practices that are designed to preserve

the independence and integrity of decision-making and ensure credit risks 
are accurately assessed,properly approved,continually monitored and actively

managed at both the transaction and portfolio levels.The policy framework

establishes credit approval authorities,credit limits,risk-rating methodologies,

portfolio-review parameters and problem-loan management.Wholesale credit

risk is continually monitored on both an aggregate portfolio level and on an
individual customer basis.For consumer credit risk,the key focus items are

trends and concentrations at the portfolio level,where potential problems 

can be remedied through changes in underwriting policies and portfolio
guidelines.Consumer Credit Risk Management monitors trends against 

business expectations and industry benchmarks.
In order to meet its credit risk management objectives,the Firm seeks to
maintain a risk profile that is diverse in terms of borrower,product type,

industry and geographic concentration.Additional diversification of the FirmÕs

exposure is accomplished through syndication of credits,participations,loan

sales,securitizations,credit derivatives and other risk-reduction techniques.
Risk reporting
To enable monitoring of credit risk and decision-making,aggregate credit

exposure,credit metric forecasts,hold-limit exceptions and risk profile changes

are reported to senior credit risk management regularly.Detailed portfolio

reporting of industry,customer and geographic concentrations occurs monthly,

and the appropriateness of the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by sen-

ior management on a quarterly basis.Through the risk governance structure,

credit risk trends and limit exceptions are regularly provided to,and discussed

with,the Operating Committee.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
59Credit portfolio
The following table presents JPMorgan ChaseÕs credit portfolio as of December 31,2004 and 2003.Total wholesale credit exposure 
increased by $167 billion,and
total consumer exposure increased by $584 billion,at year-end 2004 from year-end 2003.This increase in total exposure (includin
g $71 billion of securitized creditcards) was primarily the result of the Merger.
Wholesale and consumer credit portfolio
As of or for the year endedNonperforming Average annual
December 31,(a)Credit exposureassets
(t)(u)Net charge-offsnet charge-off rate
(in millions,except ratios)
20042003200420032004200320042003Wholesale
(b)(c)(d)Loans Ð reported(e)$135,067
$75,419
$1,574
$2,004
$186
$765
0.19%0.97%Derivative receivables
(f)(g)65,98283,751241253NANANANAInterests in purchased receivables
31,7224,752ÑÑNANANANAOther receivables
Ñ108Ñ108NANANANATotal wholesale credit-related assets
(e)232,771164,0301,8152,3651867650.190.97Lending-related commitments(h)(i)
309,399211,483NANANANANANATotal wholesale credit exposure
(e)(j)$542,170
$375,513
$1,815
$2,365
$186
$765
0.19%0.97%Consumer(c)(k)(l)Loans Ð reported(m)$267,047
$139,347
$1,169
$580
$2,913
$1,507
1.56%1.33%Loans Ð securitized(m)(n)70,79534,856ÑÑ2,8981,8705.515.64Total managed consumer loans
(m)$337,842
$174,203
$1,169
$580
$5,811
$3,377
2.43%2.31%Lending-related commitments601,196181,198NANANANANANATotal consumer credit exposure
(o)$939,038
$355,401
$1,169
$580
$5,811
$3,377
2.43%2.31%Total credit portfolio
Loans Ð reported$402,114
$214,766
$2,743
$2,584
$3,099
$2,272
1.08%1.19%Loans Ð securitized(n)70,79534,856ÑÑ2,8981,8705.515.64Total managed loans
472,909249,6222,7432,5845,9974,1421.761.84Derivative receivables
(f)(g)65,98283,751241253NANANANAInterests in purchased receivables
31,7224,752ÑÑNANANANAOther receivables
Ñ108Ñ108NANANANATotal managed credit-related assets
570,613338,2332,9842,9455,9974,1421.761.84Wholesale lending-related commitments(h)(i)309,399211,483NANANANANANAConsumer lending-related commitments601,196181,198NANANANANANAAssets acquired in loan satisfactions(p)NANA247216NANANANATotal credit portfolio
(q)$1,481,208
$730,914
$3,231
$3,161
$5,997
$4,142
1.76%1.84%Purchased held-for-sale wholesale loans
(r)$351
$22
$351
$22
NANANANACredit derivative hedges notional
(s)(37,200)(37,282)(15)(123)NANANANACollateral held against derivatives
(9,301)(36,214)NANANANANANA(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflec
ts the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Includes Investment Bank,Commercial Banking,Treasury & Securities Services and Asset & Wealth Management.

(c)Amounts are presented gross of the Allowance for loan losses.

(d)Net charge-off rates exclude year-to-date average wholesale loans HFS of $6.4 billion and $3.8 billion for 2004 and 2003,res
pectively.
(e)Wholesale loans past-due 90 days and over and accruing were $8 million and $42 million at December 31,2004 and 2003,respecti
vely.
(f)The 2004 amount includes the effect of legally enforceable master netting agreements.Effective January 1,2004,the Firm elect
ed to report the fair value of derivative assets and liabilities net of cash
received and paid,respectively,under legally enforceable master netting agreements.As of December 31,2004,derivative receivable
s were $98 billion before netting of $32 billion of cash collateral held.
(g)The Firm also views its credit exposure on an economic basis.For derivative receivables,economic credit exposure is the thre
e-year averages of a measure known as Average exposure (which is the expected
MTM value of derivative receivables at future time periods,including the benefit of collateral).Average exposure was $38 billio
n and $34 billion at December 31,2004 and December 31,2003,respectively.
See pages 62Ð64 of this Annual Report for a further discussion of the FirmÕs derivative receivables.
(h)The Firm also views its credit exposure on an economic basis.For lending-related commitments,economic credit exposure is rep
resented by a Òloan equivalent,Ówhich is the portion of the unused commit-
ments or other contingent exposure that is expected,based on average portfolio historical experience,to become outstanding in t
he event of a default by the obligor.Loan equivalents were $162 billion and
$104 billion at December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively.See page 65 of this Annual Report for a further discussion of this measu
re.
(i)Includes unused advised lines of credit totaling $23 billion and $19 billion at December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively,which
 are not legally binding.In regulatory filings with the FRB,unused advised
lines are not reportable.
(j)Represents Total wholesale loans,Derivative receivables,Interests in purchased receivables,Other receivables and Wholesale l
endingÐrelated commitments.
(k)Net charge-off rates exclude year-to-date average HFS consumer loans (excluding Card) in the amount of $14.7 billion and $25
.3 billion for 2004 and 2003,respectively.
(l)Includes Retail Financial Services and Card Services.

(m)Past-due loans 90 days and over and accruing includes credit card receivables of $998 million and $273 million,and related c
redit card securitizations of $1.3 billion and $879 million,at December 31,
2004 and 2003,respectively.
(n)Represents securitized credit cards.For a further discussion of credit card securitizations,see Card Services on pages 39Ð40
 of this Annual Report.
(o)Represents Total consumer loans,Credit card securitizations and Consumer lendingÐrelated commitments.

(p)At December 31,2004 and 2003,includes $23 million and $10 million,respectively,of wholesale assets acquired in loan satisfac
tions,and $224 million and $206 million,respectively,of consumer assets
acquired in loan satisfactions.
(q)At December 31,2004 and 2003,excludes $1.5 billion and $2.3 billion,respectively,of residential mortgage receivables in fore
closure status that are insured by government agencies.These amounts are
excluded as reimbursement is proceeding normally.
(r)Represents distressed wholesale loans purchased as part of IBÕs proprietary investing activities.

(s)Represents the notional amount of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives used to manage the credit risk of wholesale c
redit exposure;these derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133.
(t)Excludes purchased held-for-sale (ÒHFSÓ) wholesale loans.

(u)Nonperforming assets include wholesale HFS loans of $2 million and $30 million for 2004 and 2003,respectively,and consumer H
FS loans of $13 million and $45 million for 2004 and 2003,respectively.
HFS loans are carried at the lower of cost or market,and declines in value are recorded in Other income.
NA Ð Not applicable.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
60JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Wholesale credit portfolio
The increase in total wholesale exposure was almost entirely due to the
Merger.Derivative receivables declined by $18 billion,primarily because,effec-

tive January 1,2004,the Firm elected to report the fair value of derivative

assets and liabilities net of cash received and paid,respectively,under legally

enforceable master netting agreements.Loans,lending-related commitments
and interests in purchased receivables increased by $60 billion,$98 billion

and $27 billion,respectively,primarily as a result of the Merger.
Below are summaries of the maturity and ratings profiles of the wholesale
portfolio as of December 31,2004 and 2003.The ratings scale is based on

the FirmÕs internal risk ratings and is presented on an S&P-equivalent basis.
Wholesale exposure
Maturity profile(a)Ratings profileInvestment-grade (ÒIGÓ)Noninvestment-grade
At December 31,2004AAAA+BBB+BB+CCC+Total %
(in billions,except ratios) <1 year1Ð5 years> 5 yearsTotalto AA-to A-to BBB-to B-& belowTotalof IG
Loans43%43%14%100%$31$20$36$43$5$13564%
Derivative receivables
(b)1939421003412119Ñ6686
Interests in purchased receivables
376121003245ÑÑ32100
Lending-related commitments(b)(c)46522100124687440330986
Total exposure
(d)42%49%9%100%$ 192$124$126$92$8$54282%
Credit derivative hedges 
notional(e)18%77%5%100%$(11)$(11)$(13)$(2)$Ñ$(37)95%
Maturity profile(a)Ratings profileInvestment-grade (ÒIGÓ)Noninvestment-grade
At December 31,2003
(f)AAAA+BBB+BB+CCC+Total %
(in billions,except ratios) <1 year1Ð5 years> 5 yearsTotalto AA-to A-to BBB-to B-& belowTotalof IG
Loans50%35%15%100%$14$13$20$22$6$7563%
Derivative receivables
(b)204139 100471512918488
Interests in purchasedreceivables27712 1005ÑÑÑÑ5100
Lending-relatedcommitments(b)(c)5245310079574826221287
Total exposure
(d)44%43%13%100%$145$85$80$57$9$37683%
Credit derivative hedges
notional(e)16%74%10%100%$(10)$(12)$(12)$(2)$(1)$(37)92%
(a)The maturity profile of loans and lending-related commitments is based upon the remaining contractual maturity.The maturity 
profile of derivative receivables is based upon the maturity profile of
Average exposure.See page 63 of this Annual Report for a further discussion of Average exposure.
(b)Based on economic credit exposure,the total percentage of Investment grade for derivative receivables was 92% and 91% as of 
December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively,and for lending-related
commitments was 85% and 88% as of December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively.See footnotes (g) and (h) on page 59 of this Annual Re
port for a further discussion of economic credit exposure.
(c) Based on economic credit exposure,the maturity profile for the <1 year,1Ð5 years and >5 years categories would have been 31
%,65% and 4%,respectively,as of December 31,2004,and 38%,
58% and 4%,respectively,as of December 31,2003.See footnote (h) on page 59 of this Annual Report for a further discussion of ec
onomic credit exposure.
(d)Based on economic credit exposure,the maturity profile for <1 year,1Ð5 years and >5 years categories would have been 35%,54%
 and 11%,respectively,as of December 31,2004,and 36%,
46% and 18%,respectively,as of December 31,2003.See footnotes (g) and (h) on page 59 of this Annual Report for a further discus
sion of economic credit exposure.
(e)Ratings are based on the underlying referenced assets.

(f) Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
As of December 31,2004,the wholesale exposure ratings profile remained
relatively stable compared with December 31,2003.
Wholesale credit exposure Ð selected industry concentration 
The Firm actively manages the size and diversification of its industry concen-

trations,with particular attention paid to industries with actual or potential

credit concerns.Following the Merger,the Firm commenced a thorough

review of industry definitions and assignments in each of the heritage firmÕs

portfolios.As a result of this review,the FirmÕs industry structure was modi-

fied,resulting in two new industry groups within the top-10 industry concen-
trations at December 31,2004:Banks and finance companies (consists of the
industries termed Commercial banks and Finance companies and lessors at
year-end 2003) and Retail and consumer services (previously separate indus-

tries at December 31,2003).The Merger resulted in increases in nearly every

top 10 industry concentration.Exposures to Banks and finance companies

and Asset managers declined,primarily as a result of the FirmÕs election to

report fair value of derivative assets and liabilities net of cash received and

paid,respectively,under legally enforceable master netting agreements,which

affected derivative receivables.A significant portion of the FirmÕs derivatives

portfolio is transacted with customers in these industries.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
61Collateral
Noninvestment-grade
(d)NetCreditheld against
As of December 31,2004CreditInvestmentCriticizedCriticizedcharge-offsderivativederivative
(in millions,except ratios)exposure
(c)gradeNoncriticizedperformingnonperforming(recoveries)hedges
(e)receivables
(c)Top 10 industries
(a)Banks and finance companies$56,18490%$5,419$132$55$6$(11,695)$(3,464)
Real estate28,230649,2646091569(800)(45)
Healthcare22,003794,381204451(741)(13)
Retail and consumer services21,732764,871285108Ñ(1,767)(42)
Consumer products21,427686,3824087185(1,189)(50)
Utilities21,262852,33950438663(2,247)(27)
Asset managers20,389794,2251114(15)(80)(655)
State and municipal governments19,79497599131Ñ(394)(18)
Securities firms and exchanges18,176872,2784131(1,398)(2,068)
Media15,314644,937198311(5)(1,600)(45)
All other297,6598347,2614,00166541(15,289)(2,874)
Total
$542,17082%$91,956$6,469$1,815$186$(37,200)$(9,301)
Collateral
Noninvestment-grade
(d)NetCreditheld against
As of December 31,2003
(b)CreditInvestmentCriticizedCriticizedcharge-offsderivativederivative
(in millions,except ratios)exposure
(c)gradeNoncriticizedperformingnonperforming(recoveries)hedges
(e)receivables
(c)Top 10 industries
(a)Banks and finance companies$62,65296%$2,633$107$23$15$(12,538)$(24,822)

Real estate14,544704,0582324929(718)(182)

Healthcare11,332861,4031394412(467)(35)

Retail and consumer services14,451733,6152248364(1,637)(17)

Consumer products13,774713,6283131036(1,104)(122)

Utilities15,296821,714415583129(1,960)(176)

Asset managers21,794823,899761314(245)(1,133)

State and municipal governments14,35410036141Ñ(405)(12)

Securities firms and exchanges15,599832,5829134(1,369)(4,168)

Media14,075653,2851,307358151(1,678)(186)
All other177,6428030,0023,6521,095341(15,161)(5,361)
Total$375,51383%$56,855$6,488$2,365$765$(37,282)$(36,214)
(a)Based on December 31,2004,determination of Top 10 industries.
(b)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.

(c)Credit exposure is net of risk participations and excludes the benefit of credit derivative hedges and collateral held again
st derivative receivables or loans.For 2004,collateral held against derivative
receivables excludes $32 billion of cash collateral as a result of the Firm electing to report the fair value of derivative ass
ets and liabilities net of cash received and paid,respectively,under legally
enforceable master netting agreements.
(d)Excludes purchased nonaccrual loans held for sale of $351 million and $22 million at December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively.

(e)Represents notional amounts only;these credit derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133.
Selected industry discussion 
Presented below is a discussion of several industries to which the Firm has

significant exposure and which it continues to monitor because of actual or
potential credit concerns.
¥  Banks and finance companies:This industry group,primarily consisting
of exposure to commercial banks,is the largest segment of the FirmÕs

wholesale credit portfolio.Credit quality is high,as 90% of the exposure 

in this category is rated investment-grade.
¥  Real estate:Wholesale real estate grew considerably as a result of the
Merger.The resulting exposure is diversified by transaction type,borrower

base,geography and property type.In 2004,the portfolio continued to

benefit from disciplined underwriting,low interest rates,high liquidity 

and increased capital demand.¥  All other:All other at December 31,2004,included $298 billion of credit
exposure to 21 industry segments.Exposures related to SPEs and high-net-

worth individuals totaled 45% of this category.SPEs provide secured

financing (generally backed by receivables,loans or bonds on a bankruptcy-

remote,non-recourse or limited-recourse basis) originated by companies in

a diverse group of industries that are not highly correlated.The remaining

All other exposure is well diversified across other industries,none of which

comprises more than 3% of total exposure.
Wholesale criticized exposure
Exposures deemed criticized generally represent a ratings profile similar to a

rating of CCC+/Caa1 and lower,as defined by Standard & PoorÕs/MoodyÕs.

Despite the Merger,the criticized component of the portfolio decreased to

$8.3 billion at December 31,2004,from $8.9 billion at year-end 2003.The

portfolio continued to experience improvement due to debt repayments andManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
62JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Notional amounts and derivative receivables marked to market (ÒMTMÓ)
Notional amounts(a)Derivative receivables MTM 
As of December 31,(in billions)20042003(b)20042003(b)Interest rate 
$37,022
$31,252
$46
$60
Foreign exchange 
1,8861,545810Equity43432869Credit derivatives
1,07157833Commodity 1016132Total
40,51433,7646684Collateral held against derivative receivables
NANA(9)(c)(36)Exposure net of collateral
NANA$57
$48
(a) The notional amounts represent the gross sum of long and short third-party notional derivative contracts,excluding written 
options and foreign exchange spot contracts.
(b) Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.

(c) The Firm held $41 billion of collateral against derivative receivables as of December 31,2004,consisting of $32 billion in 
net cash received under credit support annexes to legally enforceable masternetting agreements,and $9 billion of other highly liquid collateral.The benefit of the $32 billion is reflected within the $66 
billion of derivative receivables MTM.Excluded from the $41 billion of col-
lateral is $10 billion of collateral delivered by clients at the initiation of transactions;this collateral secures exposure th
at could arise in the existing portfolio of derivatives should the MTM of the
clientÕs transactions move in the FirmÕs favor.Also excluded are credit enhancements in the form of letter-of-credit and surety
 receivables.
facility upgrades as a result of client recapitalizations;additional security and
collateral taken in refinancings;client upgrades from improved financial per-

formance;gross charge-offs;and a lack of migration of new exposures into

the portfolio.
Criticized exposure Ð industry concentrations
As of December 31,2004 (in millions)
Utilities$890
10.7%Real estate7659.2Media5096.1Chemicals/plastics4885.9Consumer products4795.8Machinery and equipment manufacturing4595.6Airlines4505.4Business services4445.4Metals/mining4385.3Building materials/construction4305.2All other2,93235.4Total 
$8,284
100%Wholesale nonperforming assets (excluding purchased held-for-sale wholesale
loans) decreased from December 31,2003,as a result of gross charge-offs of

$543 million taken during 2004.Wholesale net charge-offs improved signifi-

cantly compared with 2003,as a result of lower gross charge-offs and slightly

higher recoveries.The 2004 wholesale net charge-off rate was 0.19%,com-

pared with 0.97% in 2003.Although future charge-offs in the wholesale portfolio and overall credit quali-
ty are subject to uncertainties,which may cause actual results to differ from

historic performance,the Firm anticipates that the wholesale provision for

credit losses will be higher in 2005 than it was in 2004,as the provision for

credit losses moves to more normal levels over time.
Derivative contracts
In the normal course of business,the Firm utilizes derivative instruments to

meet the needs of customers,to generate revenues through trading activities,

to manage exposure to fluctuations in interest rates,currencies and other

markets and to manage its own credit risk.The Firm uses the same credit risk

management procedures as those used for traditional lending to assess and

approve potential credit exposures when entering into derivative transactions.
The following table summarizes the aggregate notional amounts and the
reported derivative receivables (i.e.,the MTM or fair value of the derivative

contracts after taking into account the effects of legally enforceable master

netting agreements) at each of the dates indicated:JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
63The $41 trillion of notional principal of the FirmÕs derivative contracts out-
standing at December 31,2004,significantly exceeds the possible credit loss-

es that could arise from such transactions.For most derivative transactions,

the notional principal amount does not change hands;it is simply used as a

reference to calculate payments.The appropriate measure of current credit

risk is,in the FirmÕs view,the MTM value of the contract,which represents

the cost to replace the contracts at current market rates should the counter-

party default.When JPMorgan Chase has more than one transaction out-

standing with a counterparty,and a legally enforceable master netting agree-

ment exists with that counterparty,the netted MTM exposure,less collateral

held,represents,in the FirmÕs view,the appropriate measure of current credit

risk.At December 31,2004,the MTM value of derivative receivables (after

taking into account the effects of legally enforceable master netting agree-
ments and the impact of net cash received under credit support annexes to
such legally enforceable master netting agreements) was $66 billion.Further,

after taking into account $9 billion of other highly liquid collateral held by the

Firm,the net current MTM credit exposure was $57 billion.
While useful as a current view of credit exposure,the net MTM value of the
derivative receivables does not capture the potential future variability of that

credit exposure.To capture the potential future variability of credit exposure,

the Firm calculates,on a client-by-client basis,three measures of potential

derivatives-related credit loss:Peak,Derivative Risk Equivalent (ÒDREÓ) and

Average exposure (ÒAVGÓ).These measures all incorporate netting and collat-

eral benefits,where applicable.
Peak exposure to a counterparty is an extreme measure of exposure calculat-
ed at a 97.5% confidence level.However,the total potential future credit risk

embedded in the FirmÕs derivatives portfolio is not the simple sum of all Peak

client credit risks.This is because,at the portfolio level,credit risk is reduced

by the fact that when offsetting transactions are done with separate counter-

parties,only one of the two trades can generate a credit loss,even if both

counterparties were to default simultaneously.The Firm refers to this effect 

as market diversification,and the Market-Diversified Peak (ÒMDPÓ) measure

is a portfolio aggregation of counterparty Peak measures,representing the

maximum losses at the 97.5% confidence level that would occur if all coun-
terparties defaulted under any one given market scenario and timeframe.
Derivative Risk Equivalent exposure is a measure that expresses the riskiness
of derivative exposure on a basis intended to be equivalent to the riskiness of

loan exposures.This is done by equating the unexpected loss in a derivative

counterparty exposure (which takes into consideration both the loss volatility

and the credit rating of the counterparty) with the unexpected loss in a loan

exposure (which takes into consideration only the credit rating of the counter-

party).DRE is a less extreme measure of potential credit loss than Peak 

and is the primary measure used by the Firm for credit approval of derivative

transactions.
Finally,Average exposure is a measure of the expected MTM value of the
FirmÕs derivative receivables at future time periods,including the benefit of

collateral.AVG exposure over the total life of the derivative contract is used

as the primary metric for pricing purposes and is used to calculate credit capi-
tal and the Credit Valuation Adjustment (ÒCVAÓ),as described further below.
The chart below shows the exposure profiles to derivatives over the next 10
years as calculated by the MDP,DRE and AVG metrics.All three measures

generally show declining exposure after the first year,if no new trades were

added to the portfolio.
The MTM value of the FirmÕs derivative receivables incorporates an adjust-
ment,the CVA,to reflect the credit quality of counterparties.The CVA is

based on the FirmÕs AVG to a counterparty,and on the counterpartyÕs credit

spread in the credit derivatives market.The primary components of changes in

CVA are credit spreads,new deal activity or unwinds,and changes in the

underlying market environment.The Firm believes that active risk manage-

ment is essential to controlling the dynamic credit risk in the derivatives port-

folio.The Firm risk manages its exposure to changes in CVA by entering into

credit derivative transactions,as well as interest rate,foreign exchange,equity

and commodity derivatives transactions.The MTM value of the FirmÕs deriva-

tive payables does not incorporate a valuation adjustment to reflect

JPMorgan ChaseÕs credit quality.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
64JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
The Firm actively pursues the use of collateral agreements to mitigate coun-
terparty credit risk in derivatives.The percentage of the Firm
Õs derivatives
transactions subject to collateral agreements increased slightly,to 79% as of

December 31,2004,from 78% at December 31,2003.The Firm held $41 bil-

lion of collateral as of December 31,2004 (including $32 billion of net cash

received under credit support annexes to legally enforceable master netting
agreements),compared with $36 billion as of December 31,2003.The Firm

posted $31 billion of collateral as of December 31,2004,compared with

$27 billion at the end of 2003.Certain derivative and collateral agreements include provisions that require
the counterparty and/or the Firm,upon specified downgrades in their respec-

tive credit ratings,to post collateral for the benefit of the other party.As of

December 31,2004,the impact of a single-notch ratings downgrade to

JPMorgan Chase Bank,from its current rating of AA- to A+,would have been

an additional $1.5 billion of collateral posted by the Firm;the impact of a six-

notch ratings downgrade (from AA- to BBB-) would have been $3.9 billion of

additional collateral.Certain derivative contracts also provide for termination

of the contract,generally upon a downgrade of either the Firm or the coun-

terparty,at the then-existing MTM value of the derivative contracts.
Use of credit derivatives
The following table presents the Firm
Õs notional amounts of credit derivatives
protection bought and sold by the respective businesses as of December 31,
2004 and 2003:Credit derivatives positions
Notional amountPortfolio managementDealer/client
December 31,ProtectionProtectionProtectionProtection
(in millions)bought
(b)soldboughtsoldTotal
2004$37,237$37$501,266$532,335$1,070,875
2003(a)37,34967264,389275,888577,693
(a) Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b) Includes $2 billion at both December 31,2004 and 2003,of portfolio credit derivatives.
JPMorgan Chase has limited counterparty exposure as a result of credit deriv-atives transactions.Of the $66 billion of total Derivative receivables at

December 31,2004,approximately $3 billion,or 5%,was associated with

credit derivatives,before the benefit of highly liquid collateral.The use of

credit derivatives to manage exposures by the Credit Portfolio Group does not

reduce the reported level of assets on the balance sheet or the level of
reported offÐbalance sheet commitments.
Credit portfolio management activity
In managing its wholesale credit exposure,the Firm purchases single-name

and portfolio credit derivatives.As of December 31,2004,the notional out-

standing amount of protection bought via single-name and portfolio credit
derivatives was $35 billion and $2 billion,respectively.The Firm also diversi-

fies its exposures by providing (i.e.,selling) credit protection,which increases

exposure to industries or clients where the Firm has little or no client-related
exposure.This activity is not material to the Firm
Õs overall credit exposure.
Use of single-name and portfolio credit derivatives
December 31,Notional amount of protection bought
(in millions)20042003(a)Credit derivative hedges of:
Loans and lending-related commitments$25,002
$22,471
Derivative receivables
12,23514,878Total
$37,237
$37,349
(a)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
The credit derivatives used by JPMorgan Chase for its portfolio management
activities do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133,and therefore,

effectiveness testing under SFAS 133 is not performed.These derivatives are

reported at fair value,with gains and losses recognized as Trading revenue.

The MTM value incorporates both the cost of credit derivative premiums and

changes in value due to movement in spreads and credit events,whereas the

loans and lending-related commitments being risk managed are accounted
for on an accrual basis.Loan interest and fees are generally recognized in Net

interest income,and impairment is recognized in the Provision for credit losses.

This asymmetry in accounting treatment,between loans and lending-related

commitments and the credit derivatives utilized in portfolio management
The following table summarizes the ratings profile of the Firm
Õs Consolidated balance sheet Derivative receivables MTM,net of cash and other highly liquid collateral,
for the dates indicated:Ratings profile of derivative receivables MTM
Rating equivalent20042003(b)December 31,Exposure net% of exposureExposure net% of exposure
(in millions)of collateral
(a)net of collateralof collateralnet of collateral
AAA to AA-
$30,38453%
$24,69752%
A+ to A-
9,10916
7,67716
BBB+ to BBB-9,52217
7,56416
BB+ to B-7,27113
6,77714
CCC+ and below3951
8222
Total
$56,681100%
$47,537100%
(a) The Firm held $41 billion of collateral against derivative receivables as of December 31,2004,consisting of $32 billion in 
net cash received under credit support annexes to legally enforceable mas-ter netting agreements,and $9 billion of other highly liquid collateral.The benefit of the $32 billion is reflected within the 
$66 billion of derivative receivables MTM.Excluded from the $41 billion of
collateral is $10 billion of collateral delivered by clients at the initiation of transactions;this collateral secures exposure
 that could arise in the existing portfolio of derivatives should the MTM of the
clientÕs transactions move in the Firm
Õs favor.Also excluded are credit enhancements in the form of letter-of-credit and surety receivables.
(b)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
65activities,causes earnings volatility that is not representative of the true
changes in value of the Firm
Õs overall credit exposure.The MTM treatment of
both the FirmÕs credit derivatives used for managing credit exposure (
ÒshortÓcredit positions) and the CVA,which reflects the credit quality of derivatives

counterparty exposure (ÒlongÓcredit positions),provides some natural offset.
In 2004,there were $44 million of losses in Trading revenue from credit port-
folio management activities.The losses consisted of $297 million related to

credit derivatives used to manage the Firm
Õs credit exposure;of this amount,
$234 million was associated with credit derivatives used to manage accrual

lending activities,and $63 million with credit derivatives used to manage the

derivatives portfolio.The losses were largely due to the ongoing cost of buy-

ing credit protection and some additional impact due to the global tightening
of credit spreads.These losses were partially offset by $253 million of gains

from a decrease in the MTM value of the CVA,a result of the same factors.
The 2003 credit portfolio management activity resulted in $191 million of
losses included in Trading revenue.These losses included $746 million related

to credit derivatives that were used to risk manage the Firm
Õs credit exposure;approximately $504 million of this amount was associated with credit deriva-

tives used to manage accrual lending activities,and the remainder was prima-

rily related to credit derivatives used to manage the credit risk of MTM deriva-

tive receivables.The losses were generally driven by an overall global tighten-

ing of credit spreads.The $746 million loss was partially offset by $555 mil-

lion of trading revenue gains,primarily related to the decrease in the MTM

value of the CVA due to credit spread tightening.
The Firm also actively manages its wholesale credit exposure through loan
and commitment sales.During 2004 and 2003,the Firm sold $5.9 billion and

$5.2 billion of loans and commitments,respectively,resulting in losses of $8

million and $54 million,respectively,in connection with the management of

its wholesale credit exposure.These activities are not related to the Firm
Õssecuritization activities,which are undertaken for liquidity and balance sheet

management purposes.For a further discussion of securitization activity,see

Note 13 on pages 103Ð106 of this Annual Report.
Dealer/client activityAs of December 31,2004,the total notional amounts of protection pur-

chased and sold by the dealer business were $501 billion and $532 billion,
respectively.The mismatch between these notional amounts is attributable to

the Firm selling protection on large,diversified,predominantly investment-

grade portfolios (including the most senior tranches) and then risk managing

these positions by buying protection on the more subordinated tranches of

the same portfolios.In addition,the Firm may use securities to risk manage

certain derivative positions.Consequently,while there is a mismatch in

notional amounts of credit derivatives,in the Firm
Õs view,the risk positions
are largely matched.Lending-related commitments 
The contractual amount of wholesale lending-related commitments was 

$309 billion at December 31,2004,compared with $211 billion at 

December 31,2003.The increase was primarily due to the Merger.In the

FirmÕs view,the total contractual amount of these instruments is not repre-
sentative of the FirmÕs actual credit risk exposure or funding requirements.
In determining the amount of credit risk exposure the Firm has to wholesale
lending-related commitments,which is used as the basis for allocating credit

risk capital to these instruments,the Firm has established a 
Òloan-equivalent
Óamount for each commitment;this represents the portion of the unused 

commitment or other contingent exposure that is expected,based on average

portfolio historical experience,to become outstanding in the event of a

default by an obligor.The amount of the loan equivalents as of December 31,

2004 and 2003,was $162 billion and $104 billion,respectively.
Country exposure 
The Firm has a comprehensive process for measuring and managing its expo-

sures and risk in emerging markets countries 
Ð defined as those countries
potentially vulnerable to sovereign events.Exposures to a country include all

credit-related lending,trading,and investment activities,whether cross-border

or locally funded.Exposure amounts are adjusted for credit enhancements

(e.g.guarantees and letters of credit) provided by third parties located outside

the country,if the enhancements fully cover the country risk,as well as the

business risk.As of December 31,2004,the Firm's exposure to any individual

country was not material.In addition to monitoring country exposures,the

Firm uses stress tests to measure and manage the risk of extreme loss 
associated with sovereign crises.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
66JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Consumer credit portfolio 
JPMorgan ChaseÕs consumer portfolio consists primarily of residential mort-gages and home equity loans,credit cards,auto and education financings and

loans to small businesses.The domestic consumer portfolio reflects the 
benefit of diversification from both a product and a geographical perspective.
The primary focus is on serving the prime consumer credit market.
The following table presents managed consumer credit
Ðrelated information for the dates indicated:Consumer portfolioAs of or for the year ended Credit-relatedNonperformingAverage annual
December 31,exposureassetsNet charge-offsnet charge-off rate
(e)(in millions,except ratios)
20042003(d)20042003(d)20042003(d)20042003(d)Consumer real estateHome finance Ð home equity and other
(a)$67,837
$24,179
$416
$125
$554
$109
1.18%0.56%Home finance Ð mortgage
56,81650,38125724919260.050.08Total Home finance
(a)124,65374,5606733745731350.650.26Auto & education finance62,71243,1571931232631710.520.43Consumer & small business and other 15,1074,20429572154751.641.83Credit card receivables 
Ð reported
(b)64,57517,4268111,9231,1264.956.40Total consumer loans 
Ð reported
267,047139,3471,1695802,9131,5071.561.33Credit card securitizations(b)(c)70,79534,856ÑÑ2,8981,8705.515.64Total consumer loans 
Ð managed
(b)337,842174,2031,1695805,8113,3772.432.31Assets acquired in loan satisfactionsNANA224206NANANANATotal consumer related 
assets Ð managed
337,842174,2031,3937865,8113,3772.432.31Consumer lendingÐrelated commitments:Home finance53,22331,626NANANANANANAAuto & education finance5,1932,637NANANANANANAConsumer & small business and other 10,3125,792NANANANANANACredit cards532,468141,143NANANANANANATotal lending-related commitments
601,196181,198NANANANANANATotal consumer credit portfolio
$939,038
$355,401
$1,393
$786
$5,811$3,377
2.43%2.31%(a)Includes $406 million of charge-offs related to the manufactured home loan portfolio in the fourth quarter of 2004.
(b)Past-due loans 90 days and over and accruing includes credit card receivables of $998 million and $273 million,and related c
redit card securitizations of $1.3 billion and $879 million at December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively.
(c)Represents securitized credit cards.For a further discussion of credit card securitizations,see Card Services on page 39 of 
this Annual Report.
(d)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(e)Net charge-off rates exclude average loans HFS in the amount of $14.7 billion and $25.3 billion for 2004 and 2003,respective
ly.
NA Ð Not applicable.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
67Total managed consumer loans as of December 31,2004,were $338 billion,
up from $174 billion at year-end 2003,reflecting the addition of the Bank

One consumer credit portfolios.Consumer lending
Ðrelated commitmentsincreased by 232% to $601 billion at December 31,2004,reflecting the

impact of the Merger.The following discussion relates to the specific loan and

lending-related categories within the consumer portfolio:Retail Financial ServicesAverage RFS loan balances for 2004 were $163 billion.New loans originated

in 2004 reflect higher credit quality,consistent with management
Õs focus onthe prime credit market segment.The net charge-off rate for retail loans in 2004

was 0.67%,an increase of 27 basis points from 2003.This increase was pri-

marily attributable to the Merger and to $406 million of charge-offs in the
fourth quarter of 2004,which were associated with the sale of the $4 billion

manufactured home loan portfolio.
Future RFS charge-offs and credit quality are subject to uncertainties whichmay cause actual results to differ from current anticipated performance,

including the direction and level of loan delinquencies,changes in consumer

behavior,bankruptcy trends,portfolio seasoning,interest rate movements and

portfolio mix,among other factors.
The Firm proactively manages its retail credit operation.Ongoing efforts
include continual review and enhancement of credit underwriting criteria and
refinement of pricing and risk management models.
Home Finance:Home finance loans on the balance sheet as of December31,2004,were $125 billion.This consisted of $68 billion of home equity and

other loans and $57 billion of mortgages,including mortgage loans held-for-

sale.Home equity and other loans previously included manufactured home

loans,a product the Firm stopped originating at mid-year 2004;the Firm sold

substantially all of its manufactured home loan portfolio at the end of 2004.
The $125 billion in Home Finance receivables as of December 31,2004,

reflects an increase of $50 billion from year-end 2003,driven by the addition

of Bank OneÕs home equity and mortgage portfolios.Home Finance provides
real estate lending to the full spectrum of credit borrowers,which included 

$7 billion in sub-prime credits at December 31,2004.The geographic distri-

bution of outstanding consumer real estate loans is well diversified.Consumer real estate loan portfolio by geographic location
December 31,20042003(a)(in billions)Outstanding %Outstanding%
Top 10 U.S.States
California$22.818%
$17.323%
New York
18.415
16.322
Illinois8.06
1.93
Texas
7.96
4.56
Florida7.16
4.76
Ohio6.15
0.71
Arizona5.24
1.01
Michigan5.24
1.22
New Jersey4.54
3.14
Colorado
3.23
1.52
Total Top 10
88.471
52.270
Other36.329
22.430
Total
$124.7100%
$74.6100%
(a)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Auto & Education Finance:As of December 31,2004,Auto & education
finance loans increased to $63 billion,up from $43 billion at year-end 2003.

The acquisition of the Bank One portfolio was responsible for the increase.

The Auto & education loan portfolio reflects a high concentration of prime

quality credits.During the past year,the Firm completed a strategic review 

of all consumer lending portfolio segments.This review resulted in the Firm

choosing to de-emphasize vehicle leasing,which,as of December 31,2004,

comprised $8 billion of outstandings.It is anticipated that over time vehicle

leases will account for a smaller share of balance sheet receivables and expo-

sure.The strategic review also resulted in the sale of a $2 billion recreational

vehicle portfolio in early 2005.Consumer & Small Business/Insurance:
As of December 31,2004,
Small business & other consumer loans increased to $15 billion compared
with 2003 year-end levels of $4 billion.This portfolio segment is primarily

comprised of loans to small businesses,and the increase reflects the acquisi-

tion of the Bank One small business portfolio.The portfolio reflects highly 

collateralized loans,often with personal loan guarantees.
Card Services
JPMorgan Chase analyzes its credit card portfolio on a managed basis,which

includes credit card receivables on the consolidated balance sheet and those

receivables sold to investors through securitization.Managed credit card

receivables were $135 billion at December 31,2004,an increase of $83 billion

from year-end 2003,reflecting the acquisition of the Bank One portfolio.
Consumer credit quality trends continue to improve overall,reflecting general
economic conditions and reduced consumer bankruptcy filings versus the
prior year.The decrease in the managed credit card net charge-off rate,to

5.27% in 2004 from 5.90% in 2003,reflected the impact of the Merger,as

well as managementÕs continued emphasis on prudent credit risk manage-ment,including disciplined underwriting and account management practices

targeted to the prime and super-prime credit sectors.Credit Risk Management

tools used to manage the level and volatility of losses for credit card accounts
have been continually updated,and,where appropriate,these tools were

adjusted to reduce credit risk.The managed credit card portfolio continues to

reflect a well-seasoned portfolio that has good U.S.geographic diversification.
Future charge-offs in the credit card portfolio and overall credit quality are
subject to uncertainties,which may cause actual results to differ from historic

performance.This could include the direction and level of loan delinquencies,

changes in consumer behavior,bankruptcy trends,portfolio seasoning,inter-

est rate movements and portfolio mix,among other factors.While current

economic and credit data suggest that consumer credit quality will not signifi-
cantly deteriorate,significant deterioration in the general economy could

materially change these expectations.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
68JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Overall:
The Allowance for credit losses increased by $3.0 billion from
December 31,2003,to December 31,2004,primarily driven by the Merger.

Adjustments required to conform to the combined FirmÕs allowance method-
ology,and alignment of accounting practices related to the seller
Õs interest incredit card securitizations,resulted in a net increase in the Provision for credit

losses of $858 million.See Note 12 on pages 102
Ð103 of this Annual Report.
Loans:The allowance has two components:asset-specific and formula-
based.As of December 31,2004,management deemed the allowance to be

appropriate.Excluding loans held for sale,the allowance represented 1.94%

of loans at December 31,2004,compared with 2.33% at year-end 2003.
The wholesale component of the allowance was $3.1 billion as of December
31,2004,an increase from year-end 2003,primarily due to the Merger.The

wholesale allowance also reflected a reduction of $103 million in the provi-

sion as a result of conforming the combined FirmÕs allowance methodology.
The consumer component of the allowance was $4.2 billion as of December
31,2004,an increase from December 31,2003,primarily attributable to 

the Merger and the decertification of Bank OneÕs sellerÕs retained interest in
credit card securitizations.Adjustments required to conform to the combined

FirmÕs allowance methodology included a reduction of $192 million in the
Allowance for loan losses within RFS.Conforming the methodology within

Card Services reduced the Allowance for loan losses by $62 million.
Allowance for credit losses 
JPMorgan ChaseÕs allowance for credit losses is intended to cover probable
credit losses,including losses where the asset is not specifically identified or the

size of the loss has not been fully determined.At least quarterly,the allowance

for credit losses is reviewed by the Chief Risk Officer and the Deputy Chief
Risk Officer of the Firm and is discussed with a risk subgroup of the
Operating Committee,relative to the risk profile of the Firm
Õs credit portfolioand current economic conditions.The allowance is adjusted based on that

review if,in management
Õs judgment,changes are warranted.The allowance
includes an asset-specific component and a formula-based component,the lat-
ter of which consists of a statistical calculation and adjustments to the statis-

tical calculation.For further discussion of the components of the Allowance for

credit losses,see Critical accounting estimates used by the Firm on page 77

and Note 12 on pages 102Ð103 of this Annual Report.At December 31,2004,
management deemed the allowance for credit losses to be sufficientto absorb

losses that are inherent in the portfolio,including losses that are not specifically

identified or for which the size of the loss has not yet been fully determined.Summary of changes in the allowance for credit losses
For the year ended
December 31,(a)20042003(in millions)WholesaleConsumerTotalWholesaleConsumerTotal
Loans:Beginning balance$2,204$2,319$4,523
$2,936$2,414$5,350
Addition allowance resulting 
from the Merger,July 1,2004
1,7881,3353,123
ÑÑÑ
Gross charge-offs(543)(3,262)
(c)(3,805)(1,113)(1,705)(2,818)
Gross recoveries357349706
348198546
Net charge-offs(186)(2,913)(3,099)
(765)(1,507)(2,272)
Provision for loan losses:
Provision excluding accounting policy conformity(605)2,4031,798
251,5541,579
Accounting policy conformity(103)1,188
(d)1,085ÑÑÑ
Total Provision for loan losses
(708)3,5912,883
251,5541,579
OtherÑ(110)(110)
(f)8(142)(134)
(f)Ending balance$3,098
(b)$4,222
(e)$7,320
$2,204$2,319$4,523
Lending-related commitments:Beginning balance$320$4$324
$363$
Ñ$363
Addition allowance resulting 
from the Merger,July 1,2004
4999508
ÑÑÑ
Net charge-offsÑÑÑ
ÑÑÑ
Provision for lending-related commitments:Provision excluding accounting policy conformity(111)(1)(112)
(40)1(39)
Accounting policy conformity(227)Ñ(227)ÑÑÑ
Total Provision for lending-related commitments
(338)(1)(339)
(40)1(39)
Other(1)Ñ(1)(3)3
ÑEnding balance$480$12$492
(g)$320$4$324
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm
Õs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Includes $469 million of asset-specific loss and approximately $2.6 billion of formula-based loss.Included within the formul
a-based loss is $1.6 billion related to a statistical calculation and adjust-ments to the statistical calculation of $990 million.(c)  Includes $406 million of charge-offs related to the sale of the $4 billion manufactured home loan portfolio in the fourth 
quarter of 2004.(d)Consists of an increase of approximately $1.4 billion as a result of the decertification of heritage Bank One seller
Õs interest in credit card securitizations,partially offset by a reduction of $254 million
to conform provision methodologies.
(e)Includes $3.2 billion and $1.0 billion of consumer statistical and adjustments to statistical components,respectively,at Dec
ember 31,2004.
(f)Primarily represents the transfer of the allowance for accrued fees on reported credit card loans.

(g)Includes $130 million of asset-specific loss and $362 million of formula-based loss.Note:The formula-based loss for lending-
related commitments is based on statistical calculation.There is no
adjustment to the statistical calculation for lending-related commitments.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
69Provision for credit losses
For a discussion of the reported Provision for credit losses,see page 23 of this Annual Report.The managed provision for credit
 losses,which reflects credit card
securitizations,increased primarily due to the Merger.
For the year ended
Provision forDecember 31,(a)Provision for loan losseslending-related commitmentsTotal provision for credit losses
(in millions)200420032004200320042003Investment Bank$(525)
$(135)
$(115)
$(46)
$(640)
$(181)
Commercial Banking3586(2)416Treasury & Securities Services
7ÑÑ171Asset & Wealth Management
(12)36(2)(1)(14)35Corporate
(110)116Ñ8(110)124Total Wholesale
(605)25(111)(40)(716)(15)Retail Financial Services450520(1)1449521Card Services1,9531,034ÑÑ1,9531,034Total Consumer
2,4031,554(1)12,4021,555Accounting policy conformity(b)1,085Ñ(227)Ñ858ÑTotal provision for credit losses
2,8831,579(339)(39)2,5441,540Add:Securitized credit losses
2,8981,870ÑÑ2,8981,870Less:Accounting policy conformity
(1,085)Ñ227Ñ(858)Ñ   Total managed provision for credit losses
$4,696
$3,449
$(112)
$(39)
$4,584
$3,410
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined Firm
Õs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)The provision for loan losses includes an increase of approximately $1.4 billion as a result of the decertification of herit
age Bank OneÕs sellerÕs interest in credit card securitizations,partially offset by
a reduction of $357 million to conform provision methodologies.The provision for lending-related commitments reflects a reducti
on of $227 million to conform provision methodologies in thewholesale portfolio.
Additionally,in Card Services,$128 million in allowance for accrued fees and
finance charges was reclassified from the Allowance for loan losses to Loans.
At the time of the Merger,Bank One
Õs sellerÕs interest in credit card securiti-zations was in a certificated or security form and recorded at fair value.

Subsequently,a decision was made to decertificate these assets,which resulted

in a reclassification of the sellerÕs interest from Available-for-sale securities to
Loans,at fair value,with no allowance for credit losses.Generally,as the

underlying credit card receivables represented by the seller
Õs interest were paidoff,customers continued to use their credit cards and originate new receivables,

which were then recorded as Loans at historical cost.As these new loans

aged,it was necessary to establish an Allowance for credit losses consistent

with the FirmÕs credit policies.During the second half of 2004,approximately
$1.4 billion of the Allowance for loan losses was established through the pro-

vision associated with newly originated receivables related to the seller
Õs interest.Lending-related commitments:
To provide for the risk of loss inherent in
the FirmÕs process of extending credit,management also computes an asset-
specific component and a formula-based component for wholesale lendingÐrelated commitments.These are computed using a methodology similar to

that used for the wholesale loan portfolio,modified for expected maturities

and probabilities of drawdown.This allowance,which is reported in Other 

liabilities,was $492 million at December 31,2004,and reflected the impact

of the Merger,partially offset by a $227 million benefit as a result of con-

forming  the combined Firm
Õs allowance methodology.The allowance was
$324 million at December 31,2003.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
70JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Market risk management 
Market risk represents the potential loss in value of portfolios and financial
instruments caused by adverse movements in market variables,such as interest

and foreign exchange rates,credit spreads,and equity and commodity prices.
Market risk management 
Market Risk Management (
ÒMRMÓ) is a function independent of the business-es that identifies,measures,monitors,and controls market risk.It seeks to
facilitate efficient risk/return decisions and to reduce volatility in operating
performance.It strives to make the Firm
Õs market risk profile transparent to
senior management,the Board of Directors and regulators.
The chart below depicts the MRM organizational structure and describes 
the responsibilities of the groups within MRM.Chief Risk Officer & Deputy Risk Officer¥Oversees risk managementMarket Risk Management
¥Chief Market Risk Officer
Business Unit Coverage Groups
¥Measures,monitors and controls market risk for 
business segments¥Defines and approves limit structures¥Monitors business adherence to limits¥Performs stress testing
¥Approves market risk component of new products
¥Conducts qualitative risk assessmentsPolicy,Reporting and Analysis
¥Develops policies that control market risk 
management process¥Aggregates,interprets and distributes market 
risk-related information throughout the Firm¥Reports and monitors business adherence to limits¥Interfaces with regulators and investment communityThere are also groups that report to the Chief Financial Officer with some
responsibility for market risk-related activities.For example,within the Finance

area,the valuation control functions are responsible for ensuring the accuracy

of the valuations of positions that expose the Firm to market risk.
Risk identification and classificationMRM works in partnership with the business segments to identify market

risks throughout the Firm,and to refine and monitor market risk policies and

procedures.All business segments are responsible for comprehensive identifi-

cation and verification of market risks within their units.Risk-taking business-

es have Middle Office functions that act independently from trading person-

nel and are responsible for verifying risk exposures that the business takes.In

addition to providing independent oversight for market risk arising from the

business segments,MRM is also responsible for identifying exposures which

may not be large within individual business segments,but which may be

large for the Firm in aggregate.Weekly meetings are held between MRM and

the heads of risk-taking businesses,to discuss and decide on risk exposures

in the context of the market environment and client flows.
Positions that expose the Firm to market risk are classified into two categories:
trading and nontrading risk.Trading risk includes positions that are held for

trading purposes as a principal or as part of a business whose main business

strategy is to trade or make markets.Unrealized gains and losses in these

positions are generally reported in trading revenue.Nontrading risk includes
securities held for longer term investment,and securities and derivatives used
to manage the FirmÕs asset/liability exposures.In most cases,unrealized gains
and losses in these positions are accounted for at fair value,with the 

gains and losses reported in Net income or Other comprehensive income.
Trading risk
Fixed income:Fixed income risk (which includes credit spread risk) involvesthe potential decline in Net income or financial condition due to adverse
changes in market interest rates,which may result in changes to NII,securi-

ties valuations,and other interest-sensitive revenues and expenses.
Foreign exchange,equities,commodities and other:
These risks
involve the potential decline in Net income to the Firm due to adverse
changes in foreign exchange,equities or commodities markets,whether due

to proprietary positions taken by the Firm,or due to a decrease in the level of

client activity.Other risks include passive long-term investments in numerous

hedge funds that may have exposure to fixed income,foreign exchange,equity

and commodity risk within their portfolio risk structures.
Nontrading risk
The execution of the Firm
Õs core business strategies,the delivery of products
and services to its customers,and the discretionary positions the Firm under-

takes to risk-manage structural exposures give rise to interest rate risk in the

nontrading activities of the Firm.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
71This exposure can result from a variety of factors,including differences in the
timing among the maturity or re-pricing of assets,liabilities and off
Ðbalancesheet instruments.Changes in the level and shape of market interest rate

curves may also create interest rate risk,since the re-pricing characteristics of

the FirmÕs assets do not necessarily match those of its liabilities.The Firm is
also exposed to basis risk,which is the difference in re-pricing characteristics

of two floating rate indices,such as the prime rate and 3-month LIBOR.In

addition,some of the Firm
Õs products have embedded optionality that impactpricing and balance levels.
The Firm manages interest rate exposure related to its assets and liabilities on
a consolidated,corporate-wide basis.Business units transfer their interest rate

risk to Treasury through a transfer-pricing system,which takes into account

the elements of interest rate exposure that can be risk managed in financial

markets.These elements include asset and liability balances and contractual

rates of interest,contractual principal payment schedules,expected prepay-

ment experience,interest rate reset dates and maturities,rate indices used for

re-pricing,and any interest rate ceilings or floors for adjustable rate products.

All transfer-pricing assumptions are reviewed by Treasury.
The Firm
Õs mortgage banking activities also give rise to complex interest rate
risks.The interest rate exposure from the Firm
Õs mortgage banking activities isa result of option and basis risks.Option risk arises primarily from prepayment

options embedded in mortgages and changes in the probability of newly-
originated mortgage commitments actually closing.Basis risk results from 

different relative movements between mortgage rates and other interest

rates.These risks are managed through programs specific to the different

mortgage banking activities.Potential impairment in the fair value of mort-

gage servicing rights (ÒMSRsÓ) and increased amortization levels of MSRs aremanaged via a risk management program that attempts to offset changes in

the fair value of MSRs with changes in the fair value of derivatives and invest-

ment securities.A similar approach is used to manage the interest rate risk

associated with the FirmÕs mortgage origination business.
Risk measurement
Tools used to measure risk
Because no single measure can reflect all aspects of market risk,the Firm

uses several measures,both statistical and nonstatistical,including:
¥  Statistical risk measures
- Value-at-Risk (
ÒVAR
Ó)- Risk identification for large exposures (ÒRIFLEÓ)¥  Nonstatistical risk measures
- Economic value stress tests

- Earnings-at-risk stress tests
- Other measures of position size and sensitivity to market moves
Value-at-risk 

JPMorgan ChaseÕs statistical risk measure,VAR,gauges the potential loss
from adverse market moves in an ordinary market environment and provides

a consistent cross-business measure of risk profiles and levels of risk diversifi-
cation.VAR is used to compare risks across businesses,to monitor limits and

to allocate economic capital to the business segments.VAR provides risk

transparency in a normal trading environment.
Each business day the Firm undertakes a comprehensive VAR calculation 
that includes both its trading and its nontrading activities.VAR for nontrading

activities measures the amount of potential change in economic value;

however,VAR for such activities is not a measure of reported revenue since

nontrading activities are generally not marked to market through earnings.

JPMorgan ChaseÕs VAR calculation is highly granular,comprising more than
2.1 million positions and 240,000 pricing series (e.g.,securities prices,inter-

est rates,foreign exchange rates).For a substantial portion of its exposure,

the Firm has implemented full-revaluation VAR,which,management believes,

generates the most accurate results.
To calculate VAR,the Firm uses historical simulation,which measures risk
across instruments and portfolios in a consistent,comparable way.This

approach assumes that historical changes in market values are representative

of future changes.The simulation is based on data for the previous 12 months.
The Firm calculates VAR using a one-day time horizon and a 99% confidence
level.This means the Firm would expect to incur losses greater than that 

predicted by VAR estimates only once in every 100 trading days,or about 

2.5 times a year.
All statistical models involve a degree of uncertainty,depending on the
assumptions they employ.The Firm prefers historical simulation,because it

involves fewer assumptions about the distribution of portfolio losses than
parameter-based methodologies.In addition,the Firm regularly assesses the

quality of the market data,since their accuracy is critical to computing VAR.

Nevertheless,because VAR is based on historical market data,it may not

accurately reflect future risk during environments in which market volatility 

is changing.In addition,the VAR measure on any particular day may not be

indicative of future risk levels,since positions and market conditions may 

both change over time.
While VAR is a valuable tool for evaluating relative risks and aggregating risks
across businesses,it only measures the potential volatility of daily revenues.

Profitability and risk levels over longer time periods Ð a fiscal quarter or a
year Ð may be only loosely related to the average value of VAR over those
periods for several reasons.First,while VAR measures potential fluctuations

around average daily revenue,the average itself could reflect significant gains

or losses;for example,from client revenues that accompany risk-taking activi-

ties.Second,large trading revenues may result from positions taken over

longer periods of time.For example,a business may maintain an exposure to

rising or falling interest rates over a period of weeks or months.If the market

exhibits a long-term trend over that time,the business could experience large

gains or losses,even though revenue volatility on each individual day may

have been small.ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
72JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Trading VAR
IB trading VAR by risk type and credit portfolio VAR
(a)20042003(e)As of or for the year ended AverageMinimum  MaximumAt AverageMinimumMaximumAt 
December 31,(in millions)
(b)VARVAR  VARDecember 31,VARVARVARDecember 31,
By risk type:Fixed income$74.4$45.3$117.5$57.3
$61.4$42.3$104.3$79.9
Foreign exchange
17.310.232.828.4
16.811.030.223.5
Equities28.215.257.819.8
18.26.751.645.6
Commodities and other8.76.517.98.4
7.74.912.68.7
Less:portfolio diversification
(43.6)NM
(d)NM(d)(41.8)(39.4)NM
(d)NM(d)(61.7)Total trading VAR
$85.0$51.6$125.2$72.1
$64.7$39.8$116.3$96.0
Credit portfolio VAR
(c)14.010.816.615.0
17.812.822.013.2
Less:portfolio diversification
(8.5)NM
(d)NM(d)(9.4)(13.2)NM
(d)NM(d)(8.1)Total trading and credit
portfolio VAR
$90.5$55.3$131.6$77.7
$69.3$44.8$119.8$101.1
(a)Includes all mark-to-market trading activities in the IB,plus available for sale securities held for the IB
Õs proprietary purposes.Amounts exclude VAR related to the Firm
Õs private equity business.
For a discussion of Private equity risk management,see page 76 of this Annual Report.
(b) 2004 results include six months of the combined Firm
Õs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(c)Includes VAR on derivative credit valuation adjustments,credit valuation adjustment hedges and mark-to-market loan hedges wh
ich are all reported in Trading revenue.This VAR does not include the
accrual loan portfolio,which is not marked to market.
(d)Designated as NM because the minimum and maximum may occur on different days for different risk components,and hence it is n
ot meaningful to compute a portfolio diversification effect.In addition,JPMorgan Chase
Õs average and period-end VARs are less than the sum of the VARs of its market risk components,due to risk offsets resulting fro
m portfolio diversification.(e) Amounts have been revised to reflect the reclassification of hedge fund investments,reclassification of Treasury positions 
to portfolios outside the IB,and the inclusion of available for sale securities
held for the IBÕs proprietary purposes.
The largest contributors to the IB trading VAR in 2004 was fixed income risk.
Before portfolio diversification,fixed income risk accounted for roughly 58%

of the average IB Trading Portfolio VAR.The diversification effect,which on

average reduced the daily average IB Trading Portfolio VAR by $43.6 million

in 2004,reflects the fact that the largest losses for different positions and

risks do not typically occur at the same time.The risk of a portfolio of posi-

tions is therefore usually less than the sum of the risks of the positions them-
selves.The degree of diversification is determined both by the extent to which

different market variables tend to move together and by the extent to which

different businesses have similar positions.
Average IB trading and Credit Portfolio VAR during 2004 rose to $90.5 mil-
lion,compared with $69.3 million for the same period in 2003.Period-end

VAR decreased over the same period,to $77.7 million from $101.1 million.

The decrease was driven by a decline in fixed income and equities VAR,pri-

marily due to decreased risk positions and lower market volatility.In general,

over the course of a year,VAR exposures can vary significantly as trading

positions change and market volatility fluctuates.
VAR backtesting
To evaluate the soundness of its VAR model,the Firm conducts daily backtest-

ing of VAR against actual financial results,based on daily market risk-related

revenue.Market risk-related revenue is defined as the daily change in value

of the mark-to-market trading portfolios plus any trading-related net interest

income,brokerage commissions,underwriting fees or other revenue.The

FirmÕs definition of market risk-related revenue is consistent with the FRB
Õsimplementation of the Basel CommitteeÕs market risk capital rules.The his-
togram below illustrates the daily market risk-related gains and losses for the

IB trading businesses for the year ended December 31,2004.The chart shows

that the IB posted market risk-related gains on 224 out of 261 days in this

period,with 12 days exceeding $100 million.The inset graph looks at those

days on which the IB experienced losses and depicts the amount by which
VAR exceeded the actual loss on each of those days.Losses were sustained

on 37 days,with no loss greater than $50 million,and with no loss exceeding

the VAR measure.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
73Economic value stress testing
While VAR reflects the risk of loss due to unlikely events in normal markets,

stress testing captures the FirmÕs exposure to unlikely but plausible events in
abnormal markets.Stress testing is equally important as VAR in measuring

and controlling risk.Stress testing enhances the understanding of the Firm
Õsrisk profile and loss potential and is used for monitoring limits,cross-business

risk measurement and economic capital allocation.Economic-value stress tests measure the potential change in the value of the
FirmÕs portfolios.Applying economic-value stress tests helps the Firm under-
stand how the economic value of its balance sheet (i.e.,not the amounts

reported under U.S.GAAP) would change under certain scenarios.The Firm

conducts economic-value stress tests for both its trading and its nontrading

activities,using the same scenarios for both.
The Firm stress tests its portfolios at least once a month using multiple sce-
narios.Several macroeconomic event-related scenarios are evaluated across

the Firm,with shocks to roughly 10,000 market prices specified for each sce-

nario.Additional scenarios focus on the risks predominant in individual busi-

ness segments,and include scenarios that focus on the potential for adverse

moves in complex portfolios.
Scenarios are derived from either severe historical crises or forward assess-
ment of developing market trends.They are continually reviewed and updated

to reflect changes in the FirmÕs risk profile and economic events.Stress-test
results,trends and explanations are provided each month to the Firm
Õs execu-tive management and to the lines of business to help them better measure
and manage risks to understand event riskÐsensitive positions.
The Firm
Õs stress-test methodology assumes that,during an actual stress
event,no management action would be taken to change the risk profile of

portfolios.This captures the decreased liquidity that often occurs with abnor-

mal markets and results,in the Firm
Õs view,in a conservative stress-test result.
Based on the FirmÕs stress scenarios,the stress test loss (pre-tax) in the IB
Õstrading portfolio ranged from $202 million to $1.2 billion,and $227 million

to $895 million for the years ended December 31,2004 and 2003,respec-

tively.(The 2004 results include six months of the combined Firm
Õs results andsix months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.In addition,the 2003

amounts have been revised to reflect the transfer of Treasury positions from

the IB to the Corporate business segment.)
It is important to note that VAR results cannot be directly correlated to stress-
test loss results for three reasons.First,stress-test losses are calculated at

varying dates each month,while VAR is performed daily and reported for the

period-end date.Second,VAR and stress tests are two distinct risk measure-

ments yielding very different loss potentials.Thus,although the same trading

portfolios are used for both tests,VAR is based on a distribution of one-day

historical losses measured over the most recent one year;in contrast,stress

testing subjects the portfolio to more extreme,larger moves over a longer

time horizon (e.g.,2
Ð3 weeks).Third,as VAR and stress tests are distinct risk
measurements,the impact of portfolio diversification can vary greatly.For

VAR,markets can change in patterns over a one-year time horizon,moving

from highly correlated to less so;in stress testing,the focus is on a single

event and the associated correlations in an extreme market situation.As a

result,while VAR over a given time horizon can be lowered by a diversifica-

tion benefit in the portfolio,this benefit would not necessarily manifest itself

in stress-test scenarios,which assume large,coherent moves across all markets.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
74JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
RIFLEIn addition to VAR,JPMorgan Chase employs the Risk Identification for Large

Exposures (ÒRIFLEÓ) methodology as another statistical risk measure.The Firm
requires that all market risk
Ðtaking businesses self-assess their risks tounusual and specific events.Individuals who manage risk positions,particularly

complex positions,identify potential worst-case losses that could arise from

an unusual or specific event,such as a potential tax change,and estimate the

probabilities of such losses.Through the Firm
Õs RIFLE system,this information
is then directed to the appropriate level of management,thereby permitting

the Firm to identify further earnings vulnerabilities not adequately covered by

VAR and stress testing.
Nonstatistical risk measures
Nonstatistical risk measures other than stress testing include net open posi-
tions,basis point values,option sensitivities,position concentrations and posi-

tion turnover.These measures provide additional information on an expo-

sureÕs size and the direction in which it is moving.Nonstatistical measures are
used for monitoring limits,one-off approvals and tactical control.
Earnings-at-risk stress testing
The VAR and stress-test measures described above illustrate the total eco-

nomic sensitivity of the FirmÕs balance sheet to changes in market variables.
The effect of interest rate exposure on reported Net income is also critical.

Interest rate risk exposure in the Firm
Õs core nontrading business activities
(i.e.,asset/liability management positions) results from on- and off-balance

sheet positions.The Firm conducts simulations of NII for its nontrading activi-

ties under a variety of interest rate scenarios,which are consistent with the

scenarios used for economic-value stress testing.Earnings-at-risk tests meas-

ure the potential change in the FirmÕs Net interest income over the next 12months.These tests highlight exposures to various rate-sensitive factors,such

as the rates themselves (e.g.,the prime lending rate),pricing strategies on

deposits,optionality and changes in product mix.The tests included forecast-

ed balance sheet changes,such as asset sales and securitizations,as well as

prepayment and reinvestment behavior.
JPMorgan ChaseÕs 12-month pre-tax earnings sensitivity profiles as ofDecember 31,2004,were as follows:
Immediate change in rates
(in millions)+200bp+100bp-100bp
December 31,2004$ (557)$(164)$(180)
The Firm is exposed to both rising and falling rates.The Firm
Õs risk to risingrates is largely the result of increased funding costs.In contrast,the exposure to

falling rates is the result of potential compression in deposit spreads,coupled

with higher anticipated levels of loan prepayments.
Immediate changes in interest rates present a limited view of risk,and so a
number of alternative scenarios are also reviewed.These scenarios include the

implied forward curve,nonparallel rate shifts and severe interest rate shocks

on selected key rates.These scenarios are intended to provide a comprehensive

view of JPMorgan ChaseÕs earnings-at-risk over a wide range of outcomes.
Earnings-at-risk can also result from changes in the slope of the yield curve,
because the Firm has the ability to lend at fixed rates and borrow at variable

or short-term fixed rates.Based on these scenarios,the Firm
Õs earnings wouldbe negatively affected by a sudden and unanticipated increase in short-term
rates without a corresponding increase in long-term rates.Conversely,higher

long-term rates are generally beneficial to earnings,particularly when the

increase is not accompanied by rising short-term rates.
Risk monitoring and control
Limits
Market risk is primarily controlled through a series of limits.The sizes of the

limits reflect the FirmÕs risk appetite after extensive analysis of the market
environment and business strategy.The analysis examines factors such as

market volatility,product liquidity,business track record,and management

experience and depth.The Firm maintains different levels of limits.Corporate-level limits encompass
VAR calculations and stress-test loss advisories.Similarly,business segment

levels include limits based on VAR calculations and nonstatistical measure-

ments,and P&L loss advisories.Businesses are responsible for adhering to

established limits,against which exposures are monitored and reported daily.

Exceeded limits are reported immediately to senior management,and the

affected business unit must take appropriate action to reduce trading posi-

tions.If the business cannot do this within an acceptable timeframe,senior

management is consulted on the appropriate action.MRM regularly reviews and updates risk limits,and the Firm
Õs Operating
Committee reviews and approves risk limits at least twice a year.MRM fur-

ther controls the FirmÕs exposure by specifically designating approved finan-cial instruments for each business unit.Qualitative review
MRM also performs periodic reviews of both businesses and products with
exposure to market risk in order to assess the ability of the businesses to con-

trol market risk.The businesses
Õ management strategies,market conditions,
product details and effectiveness of risk controls are reviewed.Specific recom-

mendations for improvements are made to management.Model review
Many of the FirmÕs financial instruments cannot be valued based on quoted
market prices but are instead valued using pricing models.Such models are

used for management of risk positions,such as reporting risk against limits,as

well as for valuation.A model review group,independent of the lines of busi-

ness units and MRM,reviews the models the Firm uses,and assesses model

appropriateness and consistency across businesses.The model reviews consider

a number of issues:appropriateness of the model,assessing the extent to

which it accurately reflects the characteristics of the transaction and captures

its significant risks;independence and reliability of data sources;appropriate-

ness and adequacy of numerical algorithms;and sensitivity to input parame-

ters or other assumptions which cannot be priced from the market.
Reviews are conducted for new or changed models,as well as previously
accepted models,and they assess whether there have been any material

changes to the accepted models;whether there have been any changes in

the product or market that may impact the model
Õs validity;and whether
there are theoretical or competitive developments that may require reassess-
ment of the modelÕs adequacy.For a summary of valuations based on models,
see Critical accounting estimates used by the Firm on pages 77Ð79 of thisAnnual Report.Risk reporting
Value-at-risk,nonstatistical exposures and dollar trading loss limit exceptions

are reported daily for each trading and nontrading business.Market risk expo-

sure trends,value-at-risk trends,profit and loss changes,and portfolio con-

centrations are reported weekly to business management and monthly to

senior management.In addition,the results of comprehensive,monthly stress

tests are presented to business and senior management.JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
75Operational risk management 
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed processes
or systems,human factors,or external events.
OverviewOperational risk is inherent in each of the Firm
Õs businesses and supportactivities.Operational risk can manifest itself in various ways,including errors,

business interruptions,inappropriate behavior of employees and vendors that

do not perform in accordance with outsourcing arrangements.These events

can potentially result in financial losses and other damage to the Firm,includ-

ing reputational harm.To monitor and control operational risk,the Firm maintains a system of com-
prehensive policies and a control framework designed to provide a sound and

well-controlled operational environment.The goal is to keep operational risk

at appropriate levels,in light of the Firm
Õs financial strength,the characteris-
tics of its businesses,the markets in which it operates,and the competitive

and regulatory environment to which it is subject.Notwithstanding these con-

trol measures,the Firm incurs operational losses.
The Firm
Õs approach to operational risk management is intended to mitigate
such losses by supplementing the traditional control-based approach to oper-

ational risk with risk measures,tools and disciplines that are risk-specific,

consistently applied and utilized firmwide.Key themes are transparency of

information,escalation of key issues and accountability for issue resolution.
Risk identification and measurement
Risk identification is the recognition of the operational risk events that man-

agement believes may give rise to operational losses.
In 2004,JPMorgan Chase redesigned the underlying architecture of its
firmwide self-assessment process,and began implementing the process

throughout the heritage Bank One business units.The goal of the self-assess-

ment process is for each business to identify the key operational risks specific

to its environment and assess the degree to which it maintains appropriate
controls.Action plans are developed for control issues identified,and busi-

nesses are held accountable for tracking and resolving these issues on a time-

ly basis.
All businesses were required to perform semiannual self-assessments in
2004,which were completed by the businesses through the use of software

applications developed by the Firm.Going forward,the Firm will utilize the

self-assessment process as a dynamic risk management tool.Risk monitoringThe Firm has a process for monitoring operational risk-event data,permitting

analysis of errors and losses as well as trends.Such analysis,performed both

at a line-of-business level and by risk event type,enables identification of the

causes associated with risk events faced by the businesses.Where available,

the internal data can be supplemented with external data for comparative

analysis with industry patterns.The data reported will enable the Firm to

back-test against self-assessment results.
Risk reporting and analysis
Operational risk management reports provide timely and accurate information

to the lines of business and senior management,including information about

actual operational loss levels and self-assessment results.The purpose of

these reports is to enable management to maintain operational risk at appro-

priate levels within each line of business,to escalate issues and to provide

consistent data aggregation across the FirmÕs business and support areas.
During 2004,the Firm implemented Phoenix,a new internally-designed oper-
ational risk architecture model.Phoenix integrates the individual components

of the operational risk management framework into a unified,web-based

tool.When fully implemented,Phoenix will enable the Firm to enhance its

reporting and analysis of operational risk data,leading to improved risk man-

agement and financial performance.Phoenix will also facilitate the ability of

businesses to leverage existing processes to comply with risk management-

related regulatory requirements thereby leading to increased efficiencies in
the FirmÕs management of operational risk.
For purposes of reporting and analysis,the Firm categorizes operational risk
events as follows:¥  Client service and selection
¥  Business practices
¥  Fraud,theft and malice
¥  Execution,delivery and process management
¥  Employee disputes
¥  Disasters and public safety
¥  Technology and infrastructure failures
Audit alignment Internal Audit utilizes a risk-based program of audit coverage to provide an

independent assessment of the design and effectiveness of key controls over

the FirmÕs operations,regulatory compliance and reporting.Internal Audit
partners with business management and members of the control community
in providing guidance on the operational risk framework,and reviews the

effectiveness and accuracy of the business self-assessment process as part of

its business unit audits.
A firmÕs success depends not only on its prudent management of liquidity,
credit,market,operational and business risks,but equally on the maintenance

among many constituents Ð clients,investors,regulators,as well as the gener-
al public Ð of a reputation for business practices of the highest quality.
Attention to reputation has always been a key aspect of the Firm
Õs practices,
and maintenance of reputation is the responsibility of everyone at the Firm.
JPMorgan Chase bolsters this individual responsibility in many ways:through

the Code of Conduct,training,policies and oversight functions that approve

transactions.These oversight functions include a Conflicts Office,which exam-

ines wholesale transactions with the potential to create conflicts of interest or

role for the Firm.Policy review office
The Firm has an additional structure to address certain transactions with

clients,especially complex derivatives and structured finance transactions,

that have the potential to adversely affect its reputation.This structure rein-

forces the FirmÕs procedures for examining transactions in terms of appropri-
ateness,ethical issues and reputational risk,and it intensifies the Firm
Õsscrutiny of the purpose and effect of its transactions from the client
Õs point ofview,with the goal that these transactions not be used to mislead investors

or others.The structure operates at three levels:as part of every business
Õstransaction approval process;through review by regional Policy Review

Committees;and through oversight by the Policy Review Office.
Primary responsibility for adherence to the policies and procedures designedto address reputation risk lies with the business units conducting the transac-

tions in question.The Firm
Õs transaction approval process requires review and
sign-off from,among others,internal legal/compliance,conflicts,tax and

accounting groups.Transactions involving an SPE established by the Firm

receive particular scrutiny to ensure that every such entity is properly
approved,documented,monitored and controlled.
Business units are also required to submit to regional Policy Review Committees
proposed transactions that may heighten reputation risk 
Ð particularly a
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
76JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
clientÕs motivation and its intended financial disclosure of the transaction.The
committees approve,reject or require further clarification on or changes to

the transactions.The members of these committees are senior representatives

of the business and support units in the region.The committees may escalate

transaction review to the Policy Review Office.
The Policy Review Office is the most senior approval level for client transac-
tions involving reputation risk issues.The mandate of the Office is to opine 

on specific transactions brought by the Regional Committees and consider

changes in policies or practices relating to reputation risk.The head of the

office consults with the FirmÕs most senior executives on specific topics andprovides regular updates.Aside from governance and guidance on specific

transactions,the objective of the policy review process is to reinforce a 

culture,through a 
Òcase studyÓapproach,that ensures that all employees,
regardless of seniority,understand the basic principles of reputation risk 

control and can recognize and address issues as they arise.
Fiduciary risk managementThe Firm maintains risk management committees within each of its lines of

business that include in their mandate the oversight of legal,reputational and

fiduciary-related risks in their businesses that may produce significant losses
or reputational damage.The Fiduciary Risk Management function works with

the line-of-business risk committees to ensure that businesses providing
investment or risk management products or services perform at the appropri-
ate standard relative to their relationship with a client,whether it be fiduciary

or non-fiduciary in nature.Of particular focus are the policies and practices

that address a businessÕ responsibilities to a client including client suitability
determination,disclosure obligations,disclosure communications and 

performance expectations with respect to the investment and risk manage-
ment products or services being provided by the Firm.In this way,the line-of-

business risk committees,together with the Fiduciary Risk Management func-

tion,provide oversight of the Firm
Õs efforts to monitor,measure and control
the risks that may arise in the delivery of such products or services to clients,

as well as those stemming from the FirmÕs responsibilities undertaken on
behalf of employees.
Private equity risk managementRisk management
The Firm
Õs private equity business employs processes for risk measurement
and control of private equity risk that are similar to those used for other busi-

nesses within the Firm.The processes are coordinated with the Firm
Õs overall
approach to market and concentration risk.Private equity risk is initially moni-

tored through the use of industry and geographic limits.Additionally,to man-

age the pace of new investments,a ceiling on the amount of annual private

equity investment activity has been established.At December 31,2004,the

carrying value of the private equity portfolio was $7.5 billion.
Private Equity
Õs publicly-held securities create a significant exposure to general
declines in the equity markets.Initially to gauge that risk,VAR and stress-test

exposures are calculated in the same way as they are for the Firm
Õs trading
and nontrading portfolios.However,because VAR assumes that positions 
can be exited in a normal market,JPMorgan Chase believes that the VAR 

for publicly-held securities does not necessarily represent the true value-at-risk

for these holdings nor is it indicative of the loss potential for these holdings,

due to the fact that most of the positions are subject to sale restrictions and,
often,represent significant concentration of ownership.Accordingly,Private

Equity management undertakes frequent reviews of its publicly-held securities

investments as part of a disciplined approach to sales and risk management
issues.Risk management programs are limited but are considered when practi-

cal and as circumstances dictate.Over time,the Firm may change the nature

and type of Private equity risk management programs it enters into.
Reputation and fiduciary risk managementJPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
77JPMorgan ChaseÕs accounting policies and use of estimates are integral to
understanding its reported results.The Firm
Õs most complex accounting esti-mates require managementÕs judgment to ascertain the valuation of assets
and liabilities.The Firm has established detailed policies and control proce-

dures intended to ensure that valuation methods,including any judgments

made as part of such methods,are well controlled,independently reviewed

and applied consistently from period to period.In addition,the policies and

procedures are intended to ensure that the process for changing methodolo-
gies occurs in an appropriate manner.The Firm believes its estimates for

determining the valuation of its assets and liabilities are appropriate.The fol-

lowing is a brief description of the FirmÕs critical accounting estimates involv-ing significant valuation judgments.
Allowance for credit losses
JPMorgan ChaseÕs Allowance for credit losses covers the wholesale and con-
sumer loan portfolios as well as the FirmÕs portfolio of wholesale lending-related commitments.The Allowance for loan losses is intended to adjust the

value of the Firm
Õs loan assets for probable credit losses as of the balancesheet date.For a further discussion of the methodologies used in establishing

the FirmÕs Allowance for credit losses,see Note 12 on pages 102
Ð103 of thisAnnual Report.Wholesale loans and lending-related commitmentsThe methodology for calculating both the Allowance for loan losses and the

Allowance for lending-related commitments involves significant judgment.

First and foremost,it involves the early identification of credits that are deteri-

orating.Second,it involves management judgment to derive loss factors.

Third,it involves management judgment to evaluate certain macroeconomic

factors,underwriting standards,and other relevant internal and external fac-

tors affecting the credit quality of the current portfolio and to refine loss fac-
tors to better reflect these conditions.
The Firm uses a risk rating system to determine the credit quality of its whole-
sale loans.Wholesale loans are reviewed for information affecting the oblig-

orÕs ability to fulfill its obligations.In assessing the risk rating of a particular
loan,among the factors considered include the obligor
Õs debt capacity andfinancial flexibility,the level of the obligor
Õs earnings,the amount and sources
for repayment,the level and nature of contingencies,management strength,

and the industry and geography in which the obligor operates.These factors

are based on an evaluation of historical and current information,and involve

subjective assessment and interpretation.Emphasizing one factor over anoth-

er,or considering additional factors that may be relevant in determining the

risk rating of a particular loan,but which are not currently an explicit part of

the FirmÕs methodology,could impact the risk rating assigned by the Firm to
that loan.Management applies its judgment to derive loss factors associated with eachcredit facility.These loss factors are determined by facility structure,collateral

and type of obligor.Wherever possible,the Firm uses independent,verifiable

data or the FirmÕs own historical loss experience in its models for estimatingthese loss factors.Many factors can affect management
Õs estimates of loss,
including volatility of loss given default,probability of default and rating

migrations.Judgment is applied to determine whether the loss given default

should be calculated as an average over the entire credit cycle or at a particu-

lar point in the credit cycle.The application of different loss given default fac-
tors would change the amount of the Allowance for credit losses determined
appropriate by the Firm.Similarly,there are judgments as to which external

data on probability of default should be used,and when they should be used.

Choosing data that are not reflective of the FirmÕs specific loan portfolio char-acteristics could affect loss estimates.
Management also applies its judgment to adjust the loss factors derived taking into consideration model imprecision,external factors and economic

events that have occurred but are not yet reflected in the loss factors.The

resultant adjustments to the statistical calculation of losses on the performing
portfolio are determined by creating estimated ranges using historical experi-

ence of both loss given default and probability of default.Factors related to

concentrated and deteriorating industries are also incorporated where rele-

vant.The estimated ranges and the determination of the appropriate point

within the range are based upon management
Õs view of uncertainties thatrelate to current macroeconomic and political conditions,quality of underwrit-

ing standards and other relevant internal and external factors affecting the

credit quality of the current portfolio.The adjustment to the statistical calcula-

tion for the wholesale loan portfolio for the period ended December 31,
2004,was $990 million,the maximum amount within the range,based on

managementÕs assessment of current economic conditions.
Consumer loansFor scored loans (generally consumer lines of business),loss is primarily deter-
mined by applying statistical loss factors and other risk indicators to pools of
loans by asset type.These loss estimates are sensitive to changes in delin-

quency status,credit bureau scores,the realizable value of collateral,and

other risk factors.
Adjustments to the statistical calculation are accomplished in part by analyzingthe historical loss experience for each major product segment.Management

analyzes the range of credit loss experienced for each major portfolio segment

taking into account economic cycles,portfolio seasoning,and underwriting 

criteria and then formulates a range that incorporates relevant risk factors

that impact overall credit performance.The recorded adjustment to the statis-

tical calculation for the period ended December 31,2004 was $1.0 billion,

based on managementÕs assessment of current economic conditions.
Fair value of financial instruments 
A portion of JPMorgan ChaseÕs assets and liabilities are carried at fair value,
including trading assets and liabilities,AFS securities and private equity invest-

ments.Held-for-sale loans and mortgage servicing rights (
ÒMSRsÓ) are carriedat the lower of fair value or cost.At December 31,2004,approximately $417

billion of the FirmÕs assets were recorded at fair value.
The fair value of a financial instrument is defined as the amount at which 
the instrument could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing

parties,other than in a forced or liquidation sale.The majority of the Firm
Õsassets reported at fair value are based on quoted market prices or on inter-

nally developed models that utilize independently sourced market parameters,

including interest rate yield curves,option volatilities and currency rates.
The degree of management judgment involved in determining the fair value
of a financial instrument is dependent upon the availability of quoted market

prices or observable market parameters.For financial instruments that are

actively traded and have quoted market prices or parameters readily available,
Critical accounting estimates used by the FirmManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
78JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
there is little to no subjectivity in determining fair value.When observable
market prices and parameters do not exist,management judgment is neces-

sary to estimate fair value.The valuation process takes into consideration fac-

tors such as liquidity and concentration concerns and,for the derivatives port-

folio,counterparty credit risk (see the discussion of CVA on page 63 of this

Annual Report).For example,there is often limited market data to rely on

when estimating the fair value of a large or aged position.Similarly,judgment

must be applied in estimating prices for less readily observable external

parameters.Finally,other factors such as model assumptions,market disloca-

tions and unexpected correlations can affect estimates of fair value.

Imprecision in estimating these factors can impact the amount of revenue or
loss recorded for a particular position.Trading and available-for-sale portfolios
Substantially all of the FirmÕs securities held for trading and investment purposes
(ÒlongÓpositions) and securities that the Firm has sold to other parties butdoes not own (ÒshortÓpositions) are valued based on quoted market prices.
However,certain securities are less actively traded and,therefore,are not

always able to be valued based on quoted market prices.The determination

of their fair value requires management judgment,as this determination may

require benchmarking to similar instruments or analyzing default and recovery
rates.Examples include certain collateralized mortgage and debt obligations

and high-yield debt securities.
As few derivative contracts are listed on an exchange,the majority of the
FirmÕs derivative positions are valued using internally developed models that
use as their basis readily observable market parameters 
Ð that is,parameters
that are actively quoted and can be validated to external sources,including

industry-pricing services.Certain derivatives,however,are valued based on

models with significant unobservable market parameters 
Ð that is,parameters
that may be estimated and are,therefore,subject to management judgment to

substantiate the model valuation.These instruments are normally either less

actively traded or trade activity is one-way.Examples include long-dated inter-

est rate or currency swaps,where swap rates may be unobservable for longer

maturities,and certain credit products,where correlation and recovery rates

are unobservable.Due to the lack of observable market data,the Firm defers

the initial trading profit for these financial instruments.The deferred profit is

recognized in Trading revenue on a systematic basis and when observable mar-

ket data becomes available.Management judgment includes recording fair

value adjustments (i.e.,reductions) to model valuations to account for parame-

ter uncertainty when valuing complex or less actively traded derivative transac-

tions.The following table summarizes the Firm
Õs trading and available-for-sale
portfolios by valuation methodology at December 31,2004:
Trading assetsTrading liabilities
SecuritiesSecuritiesAFS
purchased(a)Derivatives
(b)sold(a)Derivatives
(b)securitiesFair value based on:
Quoted market prices
92%1%99%1%94%
Internal models with significant
observable market parameters
5971972
Internal models with significant
unobservable market parameters
32Ñ24Total 
100%100%100%100%100%
(a)Reflected as debt and equity instruments on the Firm
Õs Consolidated balance sheets.
(b)Based on gross mark-to-market valuations of the Firm
Õs derivatives portfolio prior to netting positions pursuant to FIN 39,as cross-product netting is not relevant to an analysis b
ased upon valuation
methodologies.
To ensure that the valuations are appropriate,the Firm has various controls in
place.These include:an independent review and approval of valuation mod-

els;detailed review and explanation for profit and loss analyzed daily and

over time;decomposing the model valuations for certain structured derivative

instruments into their components and benchmarking valuations,where pos-

sible,to similar products;and validating valuation estimates through actual

cash settlement.As markets and products develop and the pricing for certain

derivative products becomes more transparent,the Firm refines its valuation

methodologies.The Valuation Control Group within the Finance area,a group

independent of the risk-taking function,is responsible for reviewing the accu-

racy of the valuations of positions taken within the Investment Bank.
For a discussion of market risk management,including the model review
process,see Market risk management on pages 70
Ð74 of this Annual Report.
For further details regarding the Firm
Õs valuation methodologies,see Note 29
on pages 121Ð124 of this Annual Report.
Loans held-for-sale
The fair value of loans in the held-for-sale portfolio is generally based on
observable market prices of similar instruments,including bonds,credit deriva-

tives and loans with similar characteristics.If market prices are not available,

fair value is based on the estimated cash flows,adjusted for credit risk that is

discounted using a rate appropriate for each maturity that incorporates the

effects of interest rate changes.
Private equity investmentsValuation of private investments held primarily by the Private Equity business

within Corporate requires significant management judgment due to the

absence of quoted market prices,inherent lack of liquidity and the long-term

nature of such assets.Private investments are initially valued based on cost.

The carrying values of private investments are adjusted from cost to reflect

both positive and negative changes evidenced by financing events with third-
party capital providers.In addition,these investments are subject to ongoing
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
79impairment reviews by Private Equity
Õs senior investment professionals.A vari-
ety of factors are reviewed and monitored to assess impairment including,but

not limited to,operating performance and future expectations,industry valua-

tions of comparable public companies,changes in market outlook and the

third-party financing environment over time.The Valuation Control Group

within the Finance area is responsible for reviewing the accuracy of the carry-

ing values of private investments held by Private Equity.For additional 
infor-mation about private equity investments,see the Private equity risk management

discussion on page 76 and Note 9 on pages 98Ð100 of this Annual Report.
MSRs and certain other retained interests in securitizationsMSRs and certain other retained interests from securitization activities do nottrade in an active,open market with readily observable prices.For example,

sales of MSRs do occur,but the precise terms and conditions are typically not

readily available.Accordingly,the Firm estimates the fair value of MSRs and

certain other retained interests in securitizations using a discounted future
cash flow model.For MSRs,the model considers portfolio characteristics,con-

tractually specified servicing fees and prepayment assumptions,delinquency

rates,late charges,other ancillary revenues,costs to service and other eco-

nomic factors.For other retained interests in securitizations (such as interest-

only strips),the model is generally based on projections of finance charges

related to the securitized assets,net credit losses,average life,and contractu-

al interest paid to the third-party investors.Changes in the assumptions used

may have a significant impact on the FirmÕs valuation of retained interests.
Management believes that the fair values and related assumptions utilized in

the models are comparable to those used by other market participants.For a

further discussion of the most significant assumptions used to value retained

interests in securitizations and MSRs,as well as the applicable stress tests for

those assumptions,see Notes 13 and 15 on pages 103
Ð106 and 109Ð111,respectively,of this Annual Report.
Goodwill impairment
Under SFAS 142,goodwill must be allocated to reporting units and tested for

impairment.The Firm tests goodwill for impairment at least annually or more

frequently if events or circumstances,such as adverse changes in the business

climate,indicate that there may be justification for conducting an interim test.

Impairment testing is performed at the reporting-unit level (which is generally

one level below the six major business segments identified in Note 31 on pages
126Ð127 of this Annual Report,plus Private Equity which is included in
Corporate).The first part of the test is a comparison,at the reporting unit level,

of the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying amount,including good-

will.If the fair value is less than the carrying value,then the second part of the

test is needed to measure the amount of potential goodwill impairment.The

implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill is calculated and compared to

the carrying amount of goodwill recorded in the Firm
Õs financial records.If the 
carrying value of reporting unit goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of that

goodwill,then the Firm would recognize an impairment loss in the amount of

the difference,which would be recorded as a charge against Net income.
The fair values of the reporting units are determined using discounted cash
flow models based on each reporting unitÕs internal forecasts.In addition,
analysis using market-based trading and transaction multiples,where available,

are used to assess the reasonableness of the valuations derived from the 

discounted cash flow models.
Goodwill was not impaired as of December 31,2004 or December 31,2003,
nor was any goodwill written off during the years ended December 31,2004,

2003 and 2002.See Note 15 on page 109 of this Annual Report for addition-

al information related to the nature and accounting for goodwill and the car-
rying values of goodwill by major business segment.
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
80JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
In the normal course of business,JPMorgan Chase trades nonexchange-trad-
ed commodity contracts.To determine the fair value of these contracts,the

Firm uses various fair value estimation techniques,which are primarily based

on internal models with significant observable market parameters.The Firm
Õsnonexchange-traded commodity contracts are primarily energy-related con-

tracts.The following table summarizes the changes in fair value for nonex-

change-traded commodity contracts for the year ended December 31,2004:
For the year ended 
December 31,2004 (in millions)Asset positionLiability position
Net fair value of contracts 
outstanding at January 1,2004
$1,497$751
Effect of legally enforceable master netting agreements834919
Gross fair value of contracts 
outstanding at January 1,2004
2,3311,670
Contracts realized or otherwise settled 
during the period(5,486)(4,139)
Fair value of new contracts
1,8561,569
Changes in fair values attributable to 
changes in valuation techniques 

and assumptionsÑÑOther changes in fair value
5,0524,132
Gross fair value of contracts 
outstanding at December 31,2004
3,7533,232
Effect of legally enforceable master netting agreements(2,304)(2,233)
Net fair value of contracts 
outstanding at December 31,2004
$1,449$999
The following table indicates the schedule of maturities of nonexchange-
traded commodity contracts at December 31,2004:
At December 31,2004 (in millions)Asset positionLiability position
Maturity less than 1 year$1,999$1,874
Maturity 1Ð3 years1,2661,056
Maturity 4Ð5 years454293
Maturity in excess of 5 years349
Gross fair value of contracts 
outstanding at December 31,2004
3,7533,232
Effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements(2,304)(2,233)
Net fair value of contracts 
outstanding at December 31,2004
$1,449$999
Nonexchange-traded commodity contracts at fair value
Accounting for income taxes Ð repatriation of foreign earnings
under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004

In December 2004,the FASB issued FSP SFAS 109-2,which provides account-

ing and disclosure guidance for the foreign earnings repatriation provision
within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the 
ÒActÓ).The Act was
signed into law on October 22,2004.
The Act creates a temporary incentive for U.S.companies to repatriate accu-
mulated foreign earnings at a substantially reduced U.S.effective tax rate by

providing a dividends received deduction on the repatriation of certain for-
eign earnings to the U.S.taxpayer (the 
Òrepatriation provisionÓ).The new
deduction is subject to a number of limitations and requirements.
Clarification to key elements of the repatriation provision from Congress or the
U.S.Treasury Department may affect an enterprise
Õs evaluation of the effect of the
Act on its plan for repatriation or reinvestment of foreign earnings.The FSP pro-

vides a practical exception to the SFAS 109 requirement to reflect the effect of a

new tax law in the period of enactment,because of the lack of clarification to cer-

tain provisions within the Act and the timing of the enactment.Thus,companies

have additional time to assess the effect of the Act on its plan for reinvestment or

repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying SFAS 109.A company
should apply the provisions of SFAS 109 (i.e.,reflect the tax impact in the finan-
cial statements) in the period in which it makes the decision to repatriate or rein-

vest unremitted foreign earnings in accordance with the Act.Decisions can be

made in stages (e.g.,by foreign country).The repatriation provision is effective for

either the 2004 or 2005 tax years for calendar year taxpayers.
The range of possible amounts that may be considered for repatriation under
this provision is between zero and $1.9 billion.The Firm is currently assessing

the impact of the repatriation provision and,at this time,cannot reasonably

estimate the related range of income tax effects of such repatriation provision.

Accordingly,the Firm has not reflected the tax effect of the repatriation provi-

sion in income tax expense or income tax liabilities.
Accounting for share-based payments
In December 2004,the FASB issued SFAS 123R,which revises SFAS 123 and

supersedes APB 25.Accounting and reporting under SFAS 123R is generally

similar to the SFAS 123 approach.However,SFAS 123R requires all share-

based payments to employees,including grants of employee stock options,to

be recognized in the income statement based on their fair values.Pro forma

disclosure is no longer an alternative.
Accounting and reporting developments
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
81The Firm has continued to account for stock options that were outstanding 
as of December 31,2002 under APB 25 using the intrinsic value method.

Therefore,compensation expense for some previously granted awards that

was not recognized under SFAS 123 will be recognized under SFAS 123R.

Had the Firm adopted SFAS 123R in prior periods,the impact would have

approximated the impact of SFAS 123 as described in the disclosure of pro

forma net income and earnings per share as presented in Note 7 on page 97
of this Annual Report.SFAS 123R must be adopted no later than July 1,

2005.SFAS 123R permits adoption using one of two methods 
Ð modified
prospective or modified retrospective.The Firm is currently evaluating both

the timing and method of adopting the new standard.Impairment of available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities
In September 2004,the FASB issued FSP EITF 03-1-1,indefinitely delaying

the measurement provisions of EITF 03-1.The disclosure requirements of 

EITF 03-1 remain effective and are included in Note 9 on pages 98Ð100 ofthis Annual Report.EITF 03-1 addresses issues related to other-than-tempo-

rary impairment for securities classified as either available-for-sale or held-to-

maturity under SFAS 115 (including individual securities and investments in

mutual funds) and for investments accounted for under the cost method.A

proposed FSP addressing these issues was issued by the FASB and is expect-

ed to be finalized in 2005.The impact of EITF 03-1,if any,to the Firm
Õsinvestment portfolios will not be known until the final consensus is issued.Accounting for interest rate lock commitments (
ÒIRLCsÓ)IRLCs associated with mortgages to be held for sale represent commitments
to extend credit at specified interest rates.On March 9,2004,the Securities

and Exchange Commission issued SAB No.105,which summarizes the views

of the Securities and Exchange Commission staff regarding the application of
U.S.GAAP to loan commitments accounted for as derivative instruments.SAB

105 states that the value of the servicing asset should not be included in the

estimate of fair value of IRLCs.SAB 105 is applicable for all IRLCs accounted

for as derivatives and entered into on or after April 1,2004.
Prior to April 1,2004,JPMorgan Chase recorded IRLCs at estimated fair
value.The fair value of IRLCs included an estimate of the value of the loan

servicing right inherent in the underlying loan,net of the estimated costs to

close the loan.Effective April 1,2004,and as a result of SAB 105,the Firm

no longer assigns fair value to IRLCs on the date they are entered into,with

any initial gain being recognized upon the sale of the resultant loan.Also in

connection with SAB 105,the Firm records any changes in the value of the

IRLCs,excluding the servicing asset component,due to changes in interest

rates after they are locked.Adopting SAB 105 did not have a material impact

on the FirmÕs 2004 Consolidated financial statements.
Accounting for certain loans or debt securities acquired in a transfer
In December 2003,the AICPA issued SOP 03-3,which requires that loans

purchased at a discount due to poor credit quality be recorded at fair value

and prohibits the recognition of a loss accrual or valuation allowance at the

time of purchase.SOP 03-3 also limits the yield that may be accreted to the

excess of the undiscounted expected cash flows over the initial investment 
in the loan.Subsequent increases in expected cash flows are recognized

prospectively through an adjustment of yield over its remaining life and
decreases in expected cash flows are recognized as an impairment.For

JPMorgan Chase entities,SOP 03-3 became effective for loans or debt 

securities acquired after December 31,2004.
Accounting for postretirement health care plans that provide 
prescription drug benefits 

In December 2003,the Medicare Prescription Drug,Improvement and

Modernization Act of 2003 (the 
ÒActÓ) was enacted.In May 2004,the FASB
issued FSP SFAS 106-2,which provides guidance on accounting for the Act.

For additional information,see Note 6 on page 92
Ð95 of this Annual Report.
In early 2005,the federal government issued additional guidance about how

to apply certain provisions of the Act,which may lead to future accounting

adjustments.Such adjustments,however,are not expected to be material.
Accounting for variable interest entities
In December 2003,the FASB issued a revision to FIN 46 to address various

technical corrections and implementation issues that had arisen since the
issuance of FIN 46.Effective March 31,2004,JPMorgan Chase implemented

FIN 46R for all VIEs,excluding certain investments made by its private equity

business.Implementation of FIN 46R did not have a material effect on the

FirmÕs Consolidated financial statements.
The application of FIN 46R involved significant judgement and interpretations
by management.The Firm is aware of differing interpretations being devel-

oped among accounting professionals and the EITF with regard to analyzing
derivatives under FIN 46R.Management
Õs current interpretation is that deriv-atives should be evaluated by focusing on an economic analysis of the rights

and obligations of a VIE
Õs assets,liabilities,equity,and other contracts,while
considering:the entity
Õs activities and design;the terms of the derivative con-
tract and the role it has with entity;and whether the derivative contract cre-

ates and/or absorbs variability of the VIE.The Firm will continue to monitor

developing interpretations.
ManagementÕs report on internal control over financial reporting
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
82JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Management of JPMorgan Chase & Co.is responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting.As defined 

in Rules 13a-15(f) or 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,

internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by,or under 

the supervision of,the FirmÕs principal executive,principal operating and prin-

cipal financial officers,or persons performing similar functions,and effected

by JPMorgan ChaseÕs board of directors,management and other personnel,

to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting

and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance

with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
JPMorgan ChaseÕs internal control over financial reporting includes those
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records,that,

in reasonable detail,accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and disposi-

tions of the FirmÕs assets;(2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions

are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in

accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,and that receipts

and expenditures of the Firm are being made only in accordance with author-
izations of JPMorgan ChaseÕs management and directors;and (3) provide rea-

sonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized

acquisition,use or disposition of the FirmÕs assets that could have a material

effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations,internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements.Also,projections of any evaluation

of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions,or that the degree 

of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Management has completed an assessment of the effectiveness of the FirmÕs
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,2004.In making

the assessment,management used the framework in ÒInternal Control Ð

Integrated FrameworkÓpromulgated by the Committee of Sponsoring

Organizations of the Treadway Commission,commonly referred to as the

ÒCOSOÓcriteria.
Based on the assessment performed,management concluded that as of
December 31,2004,JPMorgan ChaseÕs internal control over financial reporting

was effective based upon the COSO criteria.Additionally,based on manage-

mentÕs assessment,the Firm determined that there were no material weak-

nesses in its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,2004.
ManagementÕs assessment of the effectiveness of the FirmÕs internal control
over financial reporting as of December 31,2004 has been audited by

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP,JPMorgan ChaseÕs independent registered public

accounting firm,who also audited the FirmÕs financial statements as of and

for the year ended December 31,2004,as stated in their report which is

included herein.William B.Harrison,Jr.
Chairman and Chief Executive OfficerJames Dimon
President and Chief Operating Officer
Michael J.Cavanagh
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
February 22,2005
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
83Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of JPMorgan Chase & Co.:
We have completed an integrated audit of JPMorgan Chase & Co.Õs 2004
consolidated financial statements and of its internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31,2004 and audits of its 2003 and 2002 consoli-

dated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).Our opinions,based 

on our audits,are presented below.
Consolidated financial statementsIn our opinion,the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the relat-

ed consolidated statements of income,changes in stockholdersÕ equity and

cash flows present fairly,in all material respects,the financial position of

JPMorgan Chase & Co.and its subsidiaries (the ÒCompanyÓ) at December 31,

2004 and 2003,and the results of their operations and their cash flows for

each of the three years in the period ended December 31,2004 in conformity

with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.

These financial statements are the responsibility of the CompanyÕs manage-

ment.Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial state-

ments based on our audits.We conducted our audits of these statements in

accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight

Board (United States).Those standards require that we plan and perform the

audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements

are free of material misstatement.An audit of financial statements includes

examining,on a test basis,evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures

in the financial statements,assessing the accounting principles used and sig-

nificant estimates made by management,and evaluating the overall financial

statement presentation.We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis

for our opinion.Internal control over financial reporting
Also,in our opinion,managementÕs assessment,included in the accompany-

ing ManagementÕs report on internal control over financial reporting,that the

Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31,2004 based on criteria established in Internal Control Ð

Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of

the Treadway Commission (ÒCOSOÓ),is fairly stated,in all material respects,

based on those criteria.Furthermore,in our opinion,the Company main-

tained,in all material respects,effective internal control over financial report-

ing as of December 31,2004,based on criteria established in Internal Control

Ð Integrated Framework issued by COSO.The CompanyÕs management is

responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting
and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financialPRICEWATERHOUSE
COOPERSLLP¥ 300 M
ADISONAVENUE¥ NEWYORK,NY 10017
reporting.Our responsibility is to express opinions on managementÕs assess-
ment andon the effectiveness of the CompanyÕs internal control over finan-

cial reporting based on our audit.We conducted our audit of internal control

over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).Those standards

require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance

about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was main-

tained in all material respects.An audit of internal control over financial

reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over finan-
cial reporting,evaluating managementÕs assessment,testing and evaluating

the design and operating effectiveness of internal control,and performing

such other procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances.We

believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.
A companyÕs internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting

and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accor-

dance with generally accepted accounting principles.A companyÕs internal

control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that 
(i)pertain to the maintenance of records that,in reasonable detail,accurately

and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;

(ii)provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary

to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally

accepted accounting principles,and that receipts and expenditures of the

company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of manage-
ment and directors of the company;and (iii)provide reasonable assurance

regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition,use,or

disposition of the companyÕs assets that could have a material effect on the

financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations,internal control over financial reporting
may not prevent or detect misstatements.Also,projections of any evaluation

of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions,or that the degree of

compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
February 22,2005
Report of independent registered public accounting firm
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
84JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
84Consolidated statements of incomeJPMorgan Chase & Co.
Year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share data)
(a)200420032002
RevenueInvestment banking fees$3,537
$2,890$2,763
Trading revenue
3,6124,4272,675
Lending & deposit related fees2,6721,7271,674
Asset management,administration and commissions
7,9675,9065,754
Securities/private equity gains 
1,8741,479817
Mortgage fees and related income1,004923988
Credit card income4,8402,4662,307
Other income830601458
Noninterest revenue 
26,33620,41917,436
Interest income30,59524,04425,936
Interest expense13,83411,07913,758
Net interest income
16,76112,96512,178
Total net revenue
43,09733,38429,614
Provision for credit losses2,5441,5404,331
Noninterest expense
Compensation expense14,50611,38710,693
Occupancy expense2,0841,9121,606
Technology and communications expense
3,7022,8442,554
Professional & outside services3,8622,8752,587
Marketing
1,335710689
Other expense2,8591,6941,802
Amortization of intangibles946294323
Total noninterest expense before merger costs and litigation reserve charge
29,29421,71620,254
Merger costs1,365Ñ1,210
Litigation reserve charge3,7001001,300
Total noninterest expense
34,35921,81622,764
Income before income tax expense
6,19410,0282,519
Income tax expense1,7283,309856
Net income$4,466
$6,719$1,663
Net income applicable to common stock$4,414
$6,668$1,612
Net income per common share
Basic earnings per share$1.59
$3.32$0.81
Diluted earnings per share1.553.240.80
Average basic shares 
2,7802,0091,984
Average diluted shares
2,8512,0552,009
Cash dividends per common share
$1.36
$1.36$1.36
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.All other p
eriods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
85Consolidated balance sheetsJPMorgan Chase & Co.
At December 31,(in millions,except share data)
20042003(a)AssetsCash and due from banks$35,168
$20,268
Deposits with banks21,68010,175Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements
101,35476,868Securities borrowed47,42841,834Trading assets (including assets pledged of $77,266 at December 31,2004,and $81,312 at December 31,2003)
288,814252,871Securities:Available-for-sale (including assets pledged of $26,881 at December 31,2004,and $31,639 at December 31,2003)
94,40260,068Held-to-maturity (fair value:$117 at December 31,2004,and $186 at December 31,2003)
110176Interests in purchased receivables
31,7224,752Loans 402,114214,766Allowance for loan losses 
(7,320)(4,523)Loans,net of Allowance for loan losses
394,794210,243Private equity investments
7,7357,250Accrued interest and accounts receivable
21,40912,356Premises and equipment9,1456,487Goodwill43,2038,511Other intangible assets:Mortgage servicing rights
5,0804,781Purchased credit card relationships3,8781,014All other intangibles5,726685Other assets45,60052,573Total assets
$1,157,248
$770,912
LiabilitiesDeposits:U.S.offices:
Noninterest-bearing$129,257
$73,154
Interest-bearing261,673125,855Non-U.S.offices:
Noninterest-bearing6,9316,311Interest-bearing123,595121,172Total deposits
521,456326,492Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements
127,787113,466Commercial paper12,60514,284Other borrowed funds9,0398,925Trading liabilities
151,207149,448Accounts payable,accrued expenses and other liabilities (including the Allowance for lending-related
commitments of $492 at December 31,2004,and $324 at December 31,2003)
75,72245,066Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs
48,06112,295Long-term debt95,42248,014Junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held by trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities
10,2966,768Total liabilities
1,051,595724,758Commitments and contingencies (see Note 25 of this Annual Report)
StockholdersÕ equity
Preferred stock3391,009Common stock (authorized 9,000,000,000 shares and 4,500,000,000 shares at December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively;issued 3,584,747,502 shares and

2,044,436,509 shares at December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively)
3,5852,044Capital surplus72,80113,512Retained earnings30,20929,681Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)(208)(30)Treasury stock,at cost (28,556,534 shares at December 31,2004,and 1,816,495 shares at December 31,2003)
(1,073)(62)Total stockholdersÕ equity
105,65346,154Total liabilities and stockholdersÕ equity
$1,157,248
$770,912
(a)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
86JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Consolidated statements of changes in stockholdersÕ equity
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share data)
(a)200420032002
Preferred stock
Balance at beginning of year$1,009
$1,009$1,009
Redemption of preferred stock(670)ÑÑBalance at end of year3391,0091,009
Common stockBalance at beginning of year2,0442,0241,997
Issuance of common stock722027
Issuance of common stock for purchase accounting acquisitions1,469ÑÑBalance at end of year3,5852,0442,024
Capital surplusBalance at beginning of year13,51213,22212,495
Issuance of common stock and options for purchase accounting acquisitions55,867ÑÑShares issued and commitments to issue common stock for employee stock-based awards and related tax effects
3,422290727
Balance at end of year72,80113,51213,222
Retained earningsBalance at beginning of year29,68125,85126,993
Net income4,4666,7191,663
Cash dividends declared:Preferred stock (52)(51)(51)
Common stock ($1.36 per share each year)(3,886)(2,838)(2,754)
Balance at end of year30,20929,68125,851
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
Balance at beginning of year(30)1,227(442)
Other comprehensive income (loss)(178)(1,257)1,669
Balance at end of year(208)(30)1,227
Treasury stock,at cost
Balance at beginning of year(62)(1,027)(953)
Purchase of treasury stock(738)ÑÑReissuance from treasury stockÑ1,082107
Share repurchases related to employee stock-based awards
(273)(117)(181)
Balance at end of year (1,073)(62)(1,027)
Total stockholdersÕ equity
$105,653
$46,154$42,306
Comprehensive income
Net income$4,466
$6,719$1,663
Other comprehensive income (loss)(178)(1,257)1,669
Comprehensive income$4,288
$5,462$3,332
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.All other p
eriods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
87Consolidated statements of cash flows
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200420032002
Operating activities
Net income$4,466
$6,719$1,663
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by (used in) operating activities:
Provision for credit losses2,5441,5404,331
Depreciation and amortization3,8353,1012,979
Deferred tax (benefit) provision (827)1,4281,636
Investment securities (gains) losses(338)(1,446)(1,563)
Private equity unrealized (gains) losses
(766)(77)641
Net change in:Trading assets
(48,703)(2,671)(58,183)
Securities borrowed(4,816)(7,691)2,437
Accrued interest and accounts receivable
(2,391)1,809677
Other assets(17,588)(9,916)6,182
Trading liabilities
29,76415,76925,402
Accounts payable,accrued expenses and other liabilities
13,2775,973(11,664)
Other operating adjustments
(262)63328
Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities
(21,805)14,601(25,134)
Investing activitiesNet change in:Deposits with banks(4,196)(1,233)3,801
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements
(13,101)(11,059)(2,082)
Other change in loans(136,851)(171,779)(98,695)
Held-to-maturity securities:Proceeds6622185
PurchasesÑÑ(40)
Available-for-sale securities:
Proceeds from maturities45,19710,5485,094
Proceeds from sales134,534315,738219,385
Purchases                       
(173,745)(301,854)(244,547)
Loans due to sales and securitizations
108,637170,87097,004
Net cash received (used) in business acquisitions13,839(669)(72)
All other investing activities,net
2,5441,635(3,277)
Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities(23,076)12,418(23,344)
Financing ActivitiesNet change in:Deposits52,08221,85111,103
Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements
7,065(56,017)41,038
Commercial paper and other borrowed funds
(4,343)555(4,675)
Proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt and capital debt securities
25,34417,19511,971
Repayments of long-term debt and capital debt securities
(16,039)(8,316)(12,185)
Net issuance of stock and stock-based awards
8481,213725
Redemption of preferred stock(670)ÑÑRedemption of preferred stock of subsidiaryÑÑ(550)
Treasury stock purchased
(738)ÑÑCash dividends paid(3,927)(2,865)(2,784)
All other financing activities,net
(26)133Ñ
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities
59,596(26,251)44,643
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and due from banks
185282453
Net increase (decrease) in cash and due from banks14,9001,050(3,382)
Cash and due from banks at the beginning of the year20,26819,21822,600
Cash and due from banks at the end of the year$35,168
$20,268$19,218
Cash interest paid$13,384
$10,976$13,534
Cash income taxes paid $1,477
$1,337$1,253
Note:The fair values of noncash assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the Merger with Bank One were $320.9 billion and $27
7.0 billion,respectively.Approximately 1,469 million shares of common
stock,valued at approximately $57.3 billion,were issued in connection with the merger with Bank One.
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.All other p
eriods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
88JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
When the SPE does not meet the QSPE criteria,consolidation is assessed pur-
suant to FIN 46R.Under FIN 46R,a VIE is defined as an entity that:(1) lacks

enough equity investment at risk to permit the entity to finance its activities
without additional subordinated financial support from other parties,(2) has

equity owners that lack the right to make significant decisions affecting the

entityÕs operations,and/or (3) has equity owners that do not have an obliga-

tion to absorb or the right to receive the entityÕs losses or returns.
FIN 46R requires a variable interest holder (i.e.,a counterparty to a VIE) to
consolidate the VIE if that party will absorb a majority of the expected losses

of the VIE,receive a majority of the residual returns of the VIE,or both.This

party is considered the primary beneficiary of the entity.The determination of

whether the Firm meets the criteria to be considered the primary beneficiary
of a VIE requires an evaluation of all transactions (such as investments,liquidity

commitments,derivatives and fee arrangements) with the entity and an

expected loss calculation when necessary.For further details,see Note 14 on

pages 106Ð109 of this Annual Report.
Prior to the FirmÕs adoption of FIN 46 on July 1,2003,the decision of
whether or not to consolidate depended on the applicable accounting princi-
ples for non-QSPEs,including a determination regarding the nature and

amount of investment made by third parties in the SPE.Consideration was

given to,among other factors,whether a third party had made a substantive

equity investment in the SPE;which party had voting rights,if any;who made

decisions about the assets in the SPE;and who was at risk of loss.The SPE

was consolidated if JPMorgan Chase retained or acquired control over the

risks and rewards of the assets in the SPE.
Financial assets are derecognized when they meet the accounting sale criteria.Those criteria are:(1) the assets are legally isolated from the FirmÕs

creditors;(2) the entity can pledge or exchange the financial assets or,if 

the entity is a QSPE,its investors can pledge or exchange their interests;

and (3) the Firm does not maintain effective control via an agreement to
repurchase the assets before their maturity or have the ability to unilaterally

cause the holder to return the assets.All significant transactions and retained

interests between the Firm,QSPEs and nonconsolidated VIEs are reflected 

on JPMorgan ChaseÕs Consolidated balance sheets or in the Notes to consoli-

dated financial statements.
Investments in companies that are considered to be voting-interest entitiesunder FIN 46R,in which the Firm has significant influence over operating and

financing decisions (generally defined as owning a voting or economic interest

of 20% to 50%) are accounted for in accordance with the equity method of
accounting.These investments are generally included in Other assets,and the

FirmÕs share of income or loss is included in Other income.For a discussion of

private equity investments,see Note 9 on pages 98Ð100 of this Annual Report.
Assets held for clients in an agency or fiduciary capacity by the Firm are not assets of JPMorgan Chase and are not included in the Consolidated 
balance sheets.
Use of estimates in the preparation of consolidated 
financial statements
The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management to

make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets,

liabilities,revenue,expenses and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities.

Actual results could be different from these estimates.
Note 1ÐBasis of presentation 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.(ÒJPMorgan ChaseÓor the ÒFirmÓ),a financial hold-

ing company incorporated under Delaware law in 1968,is a leading global

financial services firm and one of the largest banking institutions in the
United States,with operations in more than 50 countries.The Firm is a leader

in investment banking,financial services for consumers and businesses,finan-

cial transaction processing,investment management,private banking and 

private equity.For a discussion of the FirmÕs business segment information,

see Note 31 on pages 126Ð127 of this Annual Report.
The accounting and financial reporting policies of JPMorgan Chase and its
subsidiaries conform to accounting principles generally accepted in the United

States of America (ÒU.S.GAAPÓ) and prevailing industry practices.Additionally,

where applicable,the policies conform to the accounting and reporting guide-

lines prescribed by bank regulatory authorities.
Certain amounts in the prior periods have been reclassified to conform to thecurrent presentation.Consolidation The consolidated financial statements include accounts of JPMorgan Chase

and other entities in which the Firm has a controlling financial interest.All

material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.
The usual condition for a controlling financial interest is ownership of a
majority of the voting interests of an entity.However,a controlling financial

interest may also exist in entities,such as special purpose entities (ÒSPEsÓ),

through arrangements that do not involve controlling voting interests.
SPEs are an important part of the financial markets,providing market liquidity
by facilitating investorsÕ access to specific portfolios of assets and risks.They

are,for example,critical to the functioning of the mortgage- and asset-

backed securities and commercial paper markets.SPEs may be organized as

trusts,partnerships or corporations and are typically set up for a single,dis-

crete purpose.SPEs are not typically operating entities and usually have a lim-

ited life and no employees.The basic SPE structure involves a company selling

assets to the SPE.The SPE funds the purchase of those assets by issuing secu-

rities to investors.The legal documents that govern the transaction describe

how the cash earned on the assets must be allocated to the SPEÕs investors

and other parties that have rights to those cash flows.SPEs can be structured

to be bankruptcy-remote,thereby insulating investors from the impact of the

creditors of other entities,including the seller of the assets.
There are two different accounting frameworks applicable to SPEs;the quali-
fying SPE (ÒQSPEÓ) framework under SFAS 140;and the variable interest

entity (ÒVIEÓ) framework under FIN 46R.The applicable framework depends

on the nature of the entity and the FirmÕs relation to that entity.The QSPE

framework is applicable when an entity transfers (sells) financial assets to an

SPE meeting certain criteria as defined in SFAS 140.These criteria are

designed to ensure that the activities of the entity are essentially predeter-
mined in their entirety at the inception of the vehicle and that the transferor

of the financial assets cannot exercise control over the entity and the assets
therein.Entities meeting these criteria are not consolidated by the transferor

or other counterparty,as long as the entity does not have the unilateral abili-

ty to liquidate or to cause it to no longer meet the QSPE criteria.The Firm pri-

marily follows the QSPE model for securitizations of its residential and com-
mercial mortgages,credit card loans and automobile loans.For further details,

see Note 13 on pages 103Ð106 of this Annual Report.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
89Foreign currency translation
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into

U.S.dollars using applicable rates of exchange.JPMorgan Chase translates

revenues and expenses using exchange rates at the transaction date.
Gains and losses relating to translating functional currency financial state-
ments for U.S.reporting are included in Other comprehensive income (loss)

within StockholdersÕ equity.Gains and losses relating to nonfunctional currency

transactions,including non-U.S.operations where the functional currency is

the U.S.dollar and operations in highly inflationary environments,are reported

in the Consolidated statements of income.
Statements of cash flowsFor JPMorgan ChaseÕs Consolidated statements of cash flows,cash and cash

equivalents are defined as those amounts included in Cash and due from

banks.
Significant accounting policiesThe following table identifies JPMorgan ChaseÕs significant accounting poli-

cies and the Note and page where a detailed description of each policy canbe found:Trading activitiesNote 3Page  90
Other noninterest revenueNote 4Page  91

Pension and other postretirement employee 
benefit plansNote 6Page  92
Employee stock-based incentivesNote 7Page  95

Securities and private equity investmentsNote 9Page  98

Securities financing activitiesNote 10Page 100

LoansNote 11Page 101

Allowance for credit lossesNote 12Page 102

Loan securitizationsNote 13Page 103

Variable interest entitiesNote 14Page 106

Goodwill and other intangible assetsNote 15Page 109

Premises and equipmentNote 16Page 111

Income taxesNote 22Page 115

Derivative instruments and hedging activitiesNote 26Page 118

OffÐbalance sheet lending-related financial 
instruments and guaranteesNote 27Page 119
Fair value of financial instrumentsNote 29Page 121
Note 2ÐBusiness changes and developments
Merger with Bank One Corporation 
Bank One Corporation merged with and into JPMorgan Chase (the ÒMergerÓ)

on July 1,2004.As a result of the Merger,each outstanding share of com-

mon stock of Bank One was converted in a stock-for-stock exchange into

1.32 shares of common stock of JPMorgan Chase;cash payments for frac-

tional shares were approximately $3.1 million.JPMorgan Chase stockholders

kept their shares,which remained outstanding and unchanged as shares of

JPMorgan Chase following the Merger.Key objectives of the Merger were to

provide the Firm with a more balanced business mix and greater geographic

diversification.The Merger was accounted for using the purchase method of

accounting,which requires that the assets and liabilities of Bank One be fair

valued as of July 1,2004.The purchase price to complete the Merger was

$58.5 billion.The purchase price of the Merger has been allocated to the assets acquired

and liabilities assumed using their fair values at the merger date.The compu-

tation of the purchase price and the allocation of the purchase price to the
net assets of Bank One Ð based on their respective fair values as of July 1,

2004 Ð and the resulting goodwill are presented below.The allocation of the

purchase price may be modified through June 30,2005,as more information

is obtained about the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
(in millions,except per share amounts)July 1,2004
Purchase price
Bank One common stock exchanged 1,113
Exchange ratio1.32

JPMorgan Chase common stock issued 1,469

Average purchase price per 
JPMorgan Chase common share(a)$39.02
$57,336
Fair value of employee stock awards and 
direct acquisition costs1,210Total purchase price$58,546
Net assets acquired:
Bank One stockholdersÕ equity$24,156
Bank One goodwill and other intangible assets(2,754)

Subtotal21,402
Adjustments to reflect assets 
acquired at fair value:
Loans and leases (2,261)

Private equity investments(75)

Identified intangibles 8,665

Pension plan assets(778)

Premises and equipment(427)

Other assets (262)
Amounts to reflect liabilities 
assumed at fair value:Deposits (373)
Deferred income taxes 767

Postretirement plan liabilities(49)

Other liabilities(975)
Long-term debt(1,234)
24,400Goodwill resulting from Merger$34,146
(a)The value of the FirmÕs common stock exchanged with Bank One shareholders was based
on the average closing prices of the FirmÕs common stock for the two days prior to,and the

two days following,the announcement of the Merger on January 14,2004.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
90JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Unaudited condensed statement of net assets acquired
The following unaudited condensed statement of net assets acquired reflects
the fair value of Bank One net assets as of July 1,2004.
(in millions)July 1,2004
AssetsCash and cash equivalents
$14,669
Securities70,512Interests in purchased receivables
30,184Loans,net of allowance
129,650Goodwill and other intangible assets42,811All other assets47,731Total assets
$335,557
LiabilitiesDeposits$164,848
Short-term borrowings9,811All other liabilities61,472Long-term debt40,880Total Liabilities
277,011Net assets acquired$58,546
Acquired,identifiable intangible assets
Components of the fair value of acquired,identifiable intangible assets as of
July 1,2004 were as follows:
Weighted averageUseful life
(in millions)Fair valuelife (in years)(in years)
Core deposit intangibles$3,6505.1Up to 10
Purchased credit card relationships3,3404.6Up to 10

Other credit cardÐrelated intangibles2954.6Up to 10
Other customer relationship intangibles8704.6Ð10.5Up to 20
Subtotal8,1555.1Up to 20
Indefinite-lived asset management intangibles510NANA
Total
$8,6655.1
Unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial 
informationThe following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information
presents the results of operations of the Firm had the Merger taken place at

January 1,2003.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
20042003Noninterest revenue$31,175
$28,966
Net interest income21,36621,715Total net revenue
52,54150,681Provision for credit losses2,7273,570Noninterest expense40,50433,136Income before income tax expense9,31013,975Net income$6,544
$9,330
Net income per common share:Basic$1.85
$2.66
Diluted 1.812.61Average common shares outstanding:
Basic3,5103,495Diluted 3,5933,553Other acquisitionsDuring 2004,JPMorgan Chase purchased the Electronic Financial Services

(ÒEFSÓ) business from Citigroup and acquired a majority interest in hedge
fund manager Highbridge Capital Management (ÒHighbridgeÓ).Note 3ÐTrading activities
Trading assets include debt and equity securities held for trading purposes

that JPMorgan Chase owns (ÒlongÓpositions).Trading liabilities include debt

and equity securities that the Firm has sold to other parties but does not own
(ÒshortÓpositions).The Firm is obligated to purchase securities at a future

date to cover the short positions.Included in Trading assets and Trading liabil-

ities are the reported receivables (unrealized gains) and payables (unrealized

losses) related to derivatives.These amounts include the effect of master net-

ting agreements as permitted under FIN 39.Effective January 1,2004,the

Firm elected to report the fair value of derivative assets and liabilities net of

cash received and paid,respectively,under legally enforceable master netting

agreements.At December 31,2004,the amount of cash received and paid

was approximately $32.2 billion and $22.0 billion,respectively.Trading posi-

tions are carried at fair value on the Consolidated balance sheets.
Trading revenue
Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200420032002
Fixed income and other(b)$2,976
$4,046$2,527
Equities(c)797764331
Credit portfolio(d)(161)(383)(183)
Total 
$3,612
$4,427$2,675
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Includes bonds and commercial paper and various types of interest rate derivatives 
as well as foreign exchange and commodities.
(c)Includes equity securities and equity derivatives.

(d)Includes credit derivatives
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
91Trading assets and liabilities
The following table presents the fair value of Trading assets and Trading 
liabilities for the dates indicated:December 31,(in millions)
20042003(a)Trading assets
Debt and equity instruments:
U.S.government,federal agencies/corporations 
obligations and municipal securities$43,866
$44,678
Certificates of deposit,bankersÕ acceptances
and commercial paper7,3415,765Debt securities issued by non-U.S.governments
50,69936,243Corporate securities and other
120,92682,434Total debt and equity instruments
222,832169,120Derivative receivables:
Interest rate 
45,89260,176Foreign exchange 
7,9399,760Equity6,1208,863Credit derivatives
2,9453,025Commodity3,0861,927Total derivative receivables
65,98283,751Total trading assets
$288,814
$252,871
Trading liabilities
Debt and equity instruments(b)$87,942
$78,222
Derivative payables:
Interest rate 
41,07549,189Foreign exchange 
8,96910,129Equity9,0968,203Credit derivatives
2,4992,672Commodity1,6261,033Total derivative payables
63,26571,226Total trading liabilities
$151,207
$149,448
(a)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Primarily represents securities sold,not yet purchased.
Average Trading assets and liabilities were as follows for the periods indicated:
Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200420032002
Trading assets Ð debt and 
equity instruments$200,467
$154,597$149,173
Trading assets Ð derivative receivables
59,52185,62873,641
Trading liabilities Ð debt and 
equity instruments(b)$82,204
$72,877$64,725
Trading liabilities Ð derivative payables
52,76167,78357,607
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Primarily represents securities sold,not yet purchased.
Note 4ÐOther noninterest revenue 
Investment banking feesThis revenue category includes advisory and equity and debt underwriting

fees.Advisory fees are recognized as revenue when related services are 

performed.Underwriting fees are recognized as revenue when the Firm has

rendered all services to the issuer and is entitled to collect the fee from the
issuer,as long as there are no other contingencies associated with the fee

(e.g.,not contingent on the customer obtaining financing).Underwriting fees

are net of syndicate expenses.In addition,the Firm recognizes credit arrange-

ment and syndication fees as revenue after satisfying certain retention,timing

and yield criteria.The following table presents the components of Investment banking fees:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200420032002
Underwriting:Equity$780
$699$464
Debt1,8591,5491,543
Total Underwriting
2,6392,2482,007
Advisory898642756
Total
$3,537
$2,890$2,763
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Lending & deposit related fees 
This revenue category includes fees from loan commitments,standby letters

of credit,financial guarantees,deposit services in lieu of compensating bal-

ances,cash management-related activities or transactions,deposit accounts,

and other loan servicing activities.These fees are recognized over the period

in which the related service is provided.Asset management,administration and commissions 
This revenue category includes fees from investment management and related

services,custody and institutional trust services,brokerage services,insurance

premiums and commissions and other products.These fees are recognized

over the period in which the related service is provided.Mortgage fees and related income 
This revenue category includes fees and income derived from mortgage origina-

tion,sales and servicing;and includes the effect of risk management activities

associated with the mortgage pipeline,warehouse and the mortgage servicing

rights (ÒMSRsÓ) asset (excluding gains and losses on the sale of Available-for-

sale (ÒAFSÓ) securities).Origination fees and gains or losses on loan sales are

recognized in income upon sale.Mortgage servicing fees are recognized over the

period the related service is provided,net of amortization.Valuation changes in

the mortgage pipeline,warehouse,MSR asset and corresponding risk manage-

ment instruments are generally adjusted through earnings as these changes

occur.Net interest income and securities gains and losses on AFS securities used

in mortgage-related risk management activities are not included in Mortgage
fees and related income.For a further discussion of MSRs,see Note 15 on pages

109Ð111 of this Annual Report.
Credit card income
This revenue category includes interchange income (i.e.,transaction-processing

fees) from credit and debit cards,annual fees,and servicing fees earned in con-

nection with securitization activities.Also included in this category are volume-

related payments to partners and rewards expense.Fee revenues are recognized

as earned,except for annual fees,which are recognized over a 12-month period.
Credit card revenue sharing agreementsThe Firm has contractual agreements with numerous affinity organizations

and co-brand partners,which grant to the Firm exclusive rights to market to

their members or customers.These organizations and partners provide to the

Firm their endorsement of the credit card programs,mailing lists,and may

also conduct marketing activities,and provide awards under the various credit

card programs.The terms of these agreements generally range from 3 to 10

years.The economic incentives the Firm pays to the endorsing organizations

and partners typically include payments based on new accounts,activation,

charge volumes,and the cost of their marketing activities and awards.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
92JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
In December 2003,the Medicare Prescription Drug,Improvement and
Modernization Act of 2003 (the ÒActÓ) was enacted.The Act established a

prescription drug benefit under Medicare (ÒMedicare Part DÓ) and a federal

subsidy to sponsors of retiree health care benefit plans that provide a benefit
that is at least actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D.The Firm has deter-

mined that benefits provided to certain participants will be at least actuarially
equivalent to Medicare Part D and has reflected the estimated effects of the

subsidy in its financial statements and disclosures retroactive to the beginning
of 2004 (July 1,2004 for Bank One Plans) in accordance with FSP SFAS 106-2.
Defined benefit pension plans
The Firm has a qualified noncontributory U.S.defined benefit pension plan

that provides benefits to substantially all U.S.employees.The U.S.plan

employs a cash balance formula,in the form of salary and interest credits,to

determine the benefits to be provided at retirement,based on eligible com-

pensation and years of service.Employees begin to accrue plan benefits after

completing one year of service,and benefits vest after five years of service.

The Firm also offers benefits through defined benefit pension plans to qualify-

ing employees in certain non-U.S.locations based on eligible compensation

and years of service.
It is the FirmÕs policy to fund its pension plans in amounts sufficient to meet
the requirements under applicable employee benefit and local tax laws.In

2004,the Firm made a cash contribution to its U.S.defined benefit pension

plan of $1.1 billion on April 1,funding the plan to the maximum allowable

amount under applicable tax law.Additionally,the Firm made cash contribu-

tions totaling $40 million to fully fund the accumulated benefit obligations of
certain non-U.S.defined benefit pension plans as of December 31,2004.

Based on the current funded status of the U.S.and non-U.S.pension plans,

the Firm does not expect to make significant contributions in 2005.
Postretirement medical and life insurance
JPMorgan Chase offers postretirement medical and life insurance benefits 

to certain retirees and qualifying U.S.employees.These benefits vary with

length of service and date of hire and provide for limits on the FirmÕs share 

of covered medical benefits.The medical benefits are contributory,while the

life insurance benefits are noncontributory.Postretirement medical benefits

are also offered to qualifying U.K.employees.
JPMorgan ChaseÕs U.S.postretirement benefit obligation is partially funded
with corporate-owned life insurance (ÒCOLIÓ) purchased on the lives of 

eligible employees and retirees.While the Firm owns the COLI policies,

COLI proceeds (death benefits,withdrawals and other distributions) may 

be used only to reimburse the Firm for its net postretirement benefit claim 
payments and related administrative expenses.The U.K.postretirement 

benefit plan is unfunded.The following tables present the funded status and amounts reported on 
the Consolidated balance sheets,the accumulated benefit obligation and the

components of net periodic benefit costs reported in the Consolidated state-
ments of income for the FirmÕs U.S.and non-U.S.defined benefit pension and

postretirement benefit plans.
The Firm recognizes the portion of its payments based on new accounts to the
affinity organizations and co-brand partners as deferred loan origination costs.

The Firm defers these costs and amortizes them over 12 months.The Firm

expenses payments based on marketing efforts performed by the endorsing

organization or partner to activate a new account after the account has been

originated as incurred.Payments based on charge volumes and considered by

the Firm as revenue sharing with the affinity organizations and co-brand part-

ners,are deducted from Credit card income as the related revenue is earned.
Note 5ÐInterest income and interest expense
Details of Interest income and Interest expense were as follows:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200420032002
Interest Income
Loans$16,771
$11,812$12,709
Securities3,3773,5423,367
Trading assets
7,5276,5926,798
Federal funds sold and securities
purchased under resale agreements1,6271,4972,078
Securities borrowed463323681
Deposits with banks539214303
Interests in purchased receivables
29164Ñ
Total interest income
30,59524,04425,936
Interest Expense
Interest-bearing deposits4,6003,6045,253
Short-term and other liabilities6,2905,8717,038
Long-term debt2,4661,4981,467
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs478106Ñ
Total interest expense
13,83411,07913,758
Net interest income
16,76112,96512,178
Provision for credit losses2,5441,5404,331
Net interest income after provision 
forcredit losses
$14,217
$11,425$7,847
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Note 6ÐPension and other postretirement
employee benefit plansNew U.S.-based postretirement plans were approved in 2004 and the prior plans
of JPMorgan Chase and Bank One were merged as of December 31,2004.
The FirmÕs defined benefit pension plans are accounted for in accordance
with SFAS 87 and SFAS 88.Its postretirement medical and life insurance

plans are accounted for in accordance with SFAS 106.
The Firm uses a measurement date of December 31 for its pension and other
postretirement employee benefit plans.The fair value of plan assets is used to

determine the expected return on plan assets for its U.S.and non-U.S.defined

benefit pension plans.For the U.S.postretirement benefit plan,the market-

related value,which recognizes changes in fair value over a five-year period,

is used to determine the expected return on plan assets.Unrecognized net

actuarial gains and losses are amortized over the average remaining service

period of active plan participants,if required.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
93Defined benefit pension plansU.S.Non-U.S.Postretirement benefit plans
(d)December 31,(in millions)
2004(a)2003(b)2004(a)2003(b)2004(a)(c)2003(b)Change in benefit obligationBenefit obligation at beginning of year $(4,633)
$(4,241)
$(1,659)
$(1,329)
$(1,252)
$(1,126)
Merger with Bank One(2,497)NA(25)NA(216)NABenefits earned during the year(251)(180)(17)(16)(15)(15)Interest cost on benefit obligations(348)(262)(87)(74)(81)(73)Plan amendments70(89)Ñ(1)32ÑEmployee contributionsÑÑÑ(1)(36)(11)Actuarial gain (loss)(511)(262)(99)(125)(163)(134)Benefits paid5553866455167113Curtailments2115ÑÑ(8)(2)Special termination benefitsÑÑ(12)(1)(2)ÑForeign exchange impact and other
ÑÑ(134)(167)(3)(4)Benefit obligation at end of year$(7,594)
$(4,633)
$(1,969)
$(1,659)
$(1,577)
$(1,252)
Change in plan assetsFair value of plan assets at beginning of year
$4,866
$4,114 
$1,603
$1,281
$1,149
$1,020
Merger with Bank One3,280NA20NA98NAActual return on plan assets
94681116413384154Firm contributions1,100327408722Benefits paid(555)(386)(64)(43)(31)(27)Settlement paymentsÑÑÑ(12)
ÑÑForeign exchange impact and other
ÑÑ126157ÑÑFair value of plan assets at end of year
$9,637
(e)$4,866
(e)$1,889
$1,603
$1,302
$1,149
Reconciliation of funded statusFunded status$2,043
$233
$(80)
$(56)
$(275)
$(103)
Unrecognized amounts:Net transition asset
ÑÑ(1)(1)ÑÑPrior service cost4713745(23)8Net actuarial (gain) loss997920590564321156Prepaid benefit cost reported in Other assets 
$3,087
$1,290
$513
(f)$512
(f)$23
$61
Accumulated benefit obligation$(7,167)
$(4,312)
$(1,931)
$(1,626)
NANA(a) Effective July 1,2004,the Firm assumed the obligations of heritage Bank OneÕs pension and other postretirement plans.These 
plans were similar to those of JPMorgan Chase and were merged intothe FirmÕs plans effective December 31,2004.
(b)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.

(c)The effect of the Medicare Prescription Drug,Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 resulted in a $35 million reduction i
n the Accumulated other postretirement benefit obligation.
(d) Includes postretirement benefit obligation of $43 million and $36 million and postretirement benefit liability (included in
 Accrued expenses) of $57 million and $54 million at December 31,2004
and 2003,respectively,for the UK plan,which is unfunded.
(e) At December 31,2004 and 2003,approximately $358 million and $315 million,respectively,of U.S.plan assets relate to surplus 
assets of group annuity contracts.
(f)At December 31,2004 and 2003,Accrued expenses related to non-U.S.defined benefit pension plans that JPMorgan Chase elected n
ot to pre-fund fully totaled $124 million and $99 million,respectively.
Defined benefit pension plansU.S.Non-U.S.Postretirement benefit plans
For the year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200420032002
200420032002
200420032002
Components of net periodic benefit costsBenefits earned during the period
$251
$180$174
$17
$16$16
$15
$15$12
Interest cost on benefit obligations348262275
877462
817369
Expected return on plan assets(556)(322)(358)
(90)(83)(76)
(86)(92)(98)
Amortization of unrecognized amounts:
Prior service cost13671ÑÑÑ12Net actuarial (gain) loss2362Ñ
44356ÑÑ(10)
Curtailment (gain) loss7215
Ñ8(3)
82(8)
Settlement (gain) lossÑÑÑ(1)Ñ(2)
ÑÑÑSpecial termination benefitsÑÑÑ11Ñ32Ñ57
Net periodic benefit costs reported in Compensation expense$86
$190$113
$69
$50$6
$20
(b)$(1)$24
(a) 2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.All other 
periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)The effect of the Medicare Prescription Drug,Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 resulted in a $5 million reduction in
 the FirmÕs net periodic benefit costs.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
94JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
JPMorgan Chase has a number of other defined benefit pension plans (i.e.,U.S.
plans not subject to Title IV of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act).

The most significant of these plans is the Excess Retirement Plan,pursuant to

which certain employees earn service credits on compensation amounts above
the maximum stipulated by law.This plan is a nonqualified,noncontributory

U.S.pension plan with an unfunded liability at December 31,2004 and 2003,

in the amount of $292 million and $178 million,respectively.Compensation

expense related to the FirmÕs other defined benefit pension plans totaled $28

million in 2004,$19 million in 2003 and $15 million in 2002.
Plan assumptionsJPMorgan ChaseÕs expected long-term rate of return for U.S.pension and other

postretirement plan assets is a blended average of its investment advisorÕs

projected long-term (10 years or more) returns for the various asset classes,

weighted by the portfolio allocation.Asset-class returns are developed using

a forward-looking building-block approach and are not based strictly on his-

torical returns.Equity returns are generally developed as the sum of inflation,

expected real earnings growth and expected long-term dividend yield.Bond

returns are generally developed as the sum of inflation,real bond yields and

risk spreads (as appropriate),adjusted for the expected effect on returns from

changing yields.Other asset-class returns are derived from their relationship

to the equity and bond markets.
long-term rate of return on the FirmÕs COLI postretirement plan assets remained
at 7%;however,with the merger of Bank OneÕs other postretirement plan

assets,the FirmÕs overall expected long-term rate of return on U.S.postretirement

plan assets decreased to 6.80% to reflect a weighted average expected rate of

return for the merged plan.The changes as of December 31,2004,to the dis-

count rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is expect-

ed to increase 2005 U.S.pension and other postretirement benefit expenses

by approximately $41 million.The impact of any changes to the discount rate

and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets on non-U.S.pension

and other postretirement benefit expenses is not expected to be material.JPMorgan ChaseÕs U.S.pension and other postretirement benefit expenses are
most sensitive to the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets.With

all other assumptions held constant,a 25Ðbasis point decline in the expected

long-term rate of return on U.S.plan assets would result in an increase of

approximately $25 million in 2005 U.S.pension and other postretirement

benefit expenses.Additionally,a 25Ðbasis point decline in the discount rate

for the U.S.plans would result in an increase in 2005 U.S.pension and other

postretirement benefit expenses of approximately $16 million and an increase

in the related projected benefit obligations of approximately $215 million.
U.S.Non-U.S.
For the year ended December 31,
2004200320042003Weighted-average assumptions used to determine 
benefit obligationsDiscount rate 
5.75%6.00%2.00-5.30%2.00-5.40%Rate of compensation increase4.504.501.75-3.751.75-3.75U.S.Non-U.S.
For the year ended December 31,
200420032002
200420032002
Weighted-average assumptions used to determine net
periodic benefit costsDiscount rate 
6.00%6.50%7.25%
2.00-5.75%1.50-5.60%
2.50-6.00%Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets:
Pension
7.50-7.758.009.25
3.00-6.502.70-6.503.25-7.25Postretirement benefit
4.75-7.008.009.00
NANANA
Rate of compensation increase4.25-4.504.504.50
1.75-3.751.25-3.002.00-4.00
In the United Kingdom,which represents the most significant of the non-U.S.
pension plans,procedures similar to those in the United States are used to

develop the expected long-term rate of return on pension plan assets,taking

into consideration local market conditions and the specific allocation of plan

assets.The expected long-term rate of return on U.K.plan assets is an aver-

age of projected long-term returns for each asset class,selected by reference

to the yield on long-term U.K.government bonds and AA-rated long-term

corporate bonds,plus an equity risk premium above the risk-free rate.
The discount rate used in determining the benefit obligation under the U.S.
pension and other postretirement employee benefit plans is selected by refer-
ence to the year-end MoodyÕs corporate AA rate,as well as other high-quality

indices with similar duration to that of the respective planÕs benefit obliga-

tions.The discount rate for the U.K.postretirement plans is selected by refer-

ence to the year-end iBoxx £ corporate AA 15-year-plus bond rate.
The following tables present the weighted-average annualized actuarial
assumptions for the projected and accumulated benefit obligations,and the

components of net periodic benefit costs for the FirmÕs U.S.and non-U.S.

defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans,as of year-end.
The following tables present JPMorgan ChaseÕs assumed weighted-average
medical benefits cost trend rate,which is used to measure the expected cost

of benefits at year-end,and the effect of a one-percentage-point change in

the assumed medical benefits cost trend rate.
December 31,20042003(a)2002(a)Health care cost trend rate assumed 
for next year10%10%9%
Rate to which cost trend rate is assumed 
to decline (ultimate trend rate)
555Year that rate reaches ultimate trend rate
201220102008
(in millions)1-Percentage- 1-Percentage- 
For the year ended December 31,2004point increase point decrease 
Effect on total service and interest costs$5$(4)
Effect on postretirement benefit obligation71(62)(a)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
At December 31,2004,the Firm reduced the discount rate used to determine
its U.S.benefit obligations to 5.75%.The Firm also reduced the 2005 expected

long-term rate of return on its U.S.pension plan assets to 7.50%.The expected
Defined benefit pension plansU.S.Non-U.S.
(a)Postretirement benefit plans
(b)Target% of plan assetsTarget% of plan assetsTarget% of plan assets
December 31,Allocation
20042003(c)Allocation20042003(c)Allocation20042003(c)Asset classDebt securities40%
38%41%74%
74%70%50%
46%50%Equity securities50
535326
262450
5450Real estate5
55ÑÑÑÑÑÑOther5
41ÑÑ6ÑÑÑTotal100%
100%100%100%
100%100%100%
100%100%(a)Represents the U.K.defined benefit pension plan only,as plans outside the U.K.are not significant.
(b)Represents the U.S.postretirement benefit plan only,as the U.K.plan is unfunded.

(c)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
95Investment strategy and asset allocation
The investment policy for the FirmÕs postretirement employee benefit plan assets

is to optimize the risk-return relationship as appropriate to the respective planÕs

needs and goals,using a global portfolio of various asset classes diversified by

market segment,economic sector and issuer.Specifically,the goal is to optimize

the asset mix for future benefit obligations,while managing various risk factors

and each planÕs investment return objectives.For example,long-duration fixed

income securities are included in the U.S.qualified pension planÕs asset alloca-

tion,in recognition of its long-duration obligations.Plan assets are managed

by a combination of internal and external investment managers and,on a

quarterly basis,are rebalanced to target,to the extent economically practical.
The FirmÕs U.S.pension plan assets are held in various trusts and are invested
in well diversified portfolios of equity (including U.S.large and small capital-

ization and international equities),fixed income (including corporate and 
Estimated future benefit payments 

The following table presents benefit payments expected to be paid,which

include the effect of expected future service for the years indicated.The

postretirement medical and life insurance payments are net of expected

retiree contributions and the estimated Medicare Part D subsidy.
Non-U.S.and U.K.
Year ended December 31,U.S.pensionU.S.pensionpostretirement
(in millions)benefitsbenefitsbenefits
2005$619$60$113
200657862110

200759265112

200860667114

200962170116
Years 2010Ð20143,352387588
Defined contribution plansJPMorgan Chase offers several defined contribution plans in the U.S.and in cer-

tain non-U.S.locations.The most significant of these is the JPMorgan Chase

401(k) Savings Plan,covering substantially all U.S.employees.This plan allows

employees to make pre-tax contributions to tax-deferred investment portfolios.

The Firm matches eligible employee contributions up to a certain percentage of

benefits eligible compensation per pay period,subject to plan and legal limits.

Employees begin to receive matching contributions after completing a specified
service requirement and are immediately vested in such company contributions.

The FirmÕs defined contribution plans are administered in accordance with appli-

cable local laws and regulations.Compensation expense related to these plans

totaled $317 million in 2004,$240 million in 2003 and $251 million in 2002.
Note 7 Ð Employee stock-based incentivesEffective January 1,2003,JPMorgan Chase adopted SFAS 123 using the

prospective transition method.SFAS 123 requires all stock-based compensation

awards,including stock options and stock-settled stock appreciation rights

(ÒSARsÓ),to be accounted for at fair value.Stock options that were outstanding

as of December 31,2002 continue to be accounted for under APB 25 using the

intrinsic value method.Under this method,no expense is recognized for stock

options or SARs granted at the stock price on grant date,since such options

have no intrinsic value.The Firm currently uses the Black-Scholes valuation model

to estimate the fair value of stock options and SARs.Compensation expense for

restricted stock and restricted stock units (ÒRSUsÓ) is measured based on the
number of shares granted and the stock price at the grant date.Compensation

expense is recognized in earnings over the required service period.In connection with the Merger,JPMorgan Chase converted all outstanding
Bank One employee stock-based awards at the merger date,and those

awards became exercisable for or based upon JPMorgan Chase common

stock.The number of awards converted,and the exercise prices of those

awards,was adjusted to take into account the Merger exchange ratio of 1.32.
On December 16,2004,the FASB issued SFAS 123R,which revises SFAS 123
and supersedes APB 25.Accounting and reporting under SFAS 123R is generally

similar to the SFAS 123 approach except that SFAS 123R requires all share-

based payments to employees,including grants of stock options and SARs,to be

recognized in the income statement based on their fair values.SFAS 123R must

be adopted no later than July 1,2005.SFAS 123R permits adoption using one of

two methods Ñ modified prospective or modified retrospective.The Firm is cur-

rently evaluating both the timing and method of adopting the new standard.
government bonds),Treasury inflation-indexed and high-yield securities,cash

equivalents and other securities.Non-U.S.pension plan assets are similarly

invested in well-diversified portfolios of equity,fixed income and other securi-

ties.Assets of the FirmÕs COLI policies,which are used to fund partially the

U.S.postretirement benefit plan,are held in separate accounts with an insur-

ance company and are invested in equity and fixed income index funds.In

addition,tax-exempt municipal debt securities,held in a trust,are used to

fund the U.S.postretirement benefit plan.Assets used to fund the FirmÕs U.S.

and non-U.S.defined benefit pension plans include $53 million of JPMorgan

Chase common stock in addition to JPMorgan Chase common stock held in
connection with investments in third-party stock-index funds.
The following table presents the weighted-average asset allocation at
December 31 for the years indicated,and the respective target allocation by

asset category,for the FirmÕs U.S.and non-U.S.defined benefit pension and

postretirement benefit plans.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
96JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Key employee stock-based awards
JPMorgan Chase grants long-term stock-based incentive awards to certain

key employees under two plans (the ÒLTI PlansÓ):the 1996 Long-Term

Incentive Plan (the Ò1996 PlanÓ),as amended and approved by shareholders

in May 2000,provides for grants of stock options,SARs,restricted stock and

RSU awards,and the Stock Option Plan,a nonshareholder-approved plan,

provides for grants of stock options and SARs.In 2004,14.5 million SARs 
settled only in shares and 2.2 million nonqualified stock options were granted

under the 1996 Plan.Under the LTI Plans,stock options and SARs are granted with an exercise price
equal to JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock price on the grant date.Generally,

options and SARs cannot be exercised until at least one year after the grant

date and become exercisable over various periods as determined at the time

of the grant.These awards generally expire 10 years after the grant date.
The following table presents a summary of JPMorgan ChaseÕs option and SAR activity under the LTI Plans during the last three ye
ars:200420032002
Year ended December 31,
(a)Number ofWeighted-averageNumber of Weighted-averageNumber ofWeighted-average
(in thousands)options/SARsexercise priceoptionsexercise priceoptionsexercise price
Outstanding,January 1
294,026$39.88
298,731$40.84272,304$41.23
Granted
16,66739.79
26,75122.1553,23036.41
Bank One Conversion,July 1
111,28729.63
NANANANA
Exercised(27,763)25.33
(14,574)17.47(9,285)16.85
Canceled(17,887)46.68
(16,882)47.57(17,518)45.59
Outstanding,December 31
376,330$37.59
294,026$39.88298,731$40.84
Exercisable,December 31
246,945$36.82
176,163$37.88144,421$34.91
(a)2004 includes six months of awards for the combined Firm and six months of awards for heritage JPMorgan Chase.All other peri
ods reflect the awards for heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
The following table details the distribution of options and SARs outstanding under the LTI Plans at December 31,2004:
Options/SARs outstandingOptions/SARs exercisable
(in thousands)Weighted-averageWeighted-average remainingWeighted-average
Range of exercise pricesOutstandingexercise pricecontractual life (in years)Exercisableexercise price
$3.41Ð$20.009,715$17.670.99,707$17.66
$20.01Ð$35.00131,76726.996.177,53727.02
$35.01Ð$50.00144,52140.055.7123,58540.23
$50.01Ð$65.5890,32751.275.836,11651.34
Total
376,330$37.595.8246,945$36.82
recipient is entitled to receive cash payments equivalent to any dividends paid
on the underlying common stock during the period the RSU is outstanding.The vesting of certain awards issued prior to 2002 is conditioned upon cer-
tain service requirements being met and JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock

reaching and sustaining target prices within a five-year performance period.
During 2002,it was determined that it was no longer probable that the tar-

get stock prices related to forfeitable awards granted in 1999,2000,and

2001 would be achieved within their respective performance periods,and

accordingly,previously accrued expenses were reversed.The target stock

prices for these awards range from $73.33 to $85.00.Forfeitures of the 1999

awards in 2004 equaled 1.2 million shares;and 1.2 million shares of the

2000 award were forfeited in January 2005.The 2001 awards will be forfeit-

ed in January 2006 if their stock price targets are not achieved.
Broad-based employee stock options
In January 2004,JPMorgan Chase granted a total of 6.3 million options and

SARs to all eligible full-time (75 options each) and part-time (38 options
each) employees under the Value Sharing Plan,a nonshareholder-approved

plan.The exercise price is equal to JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock price on

the grant date.The options become exercisable over various periods and gen-

erally expire 10 years after the grant date.
The following table presents a summary of JPMorgan ChaseÕs restricted stock
and RSU activity under the 1996 Plan during the last three years:(in thousands)Number of restricted stock/RSUs
Year ended December 31,
(a)200420032002
Outstanding,January 1
85,52755,88648,336
Granted
32,51444,55224,624
Bank One conversion15,116NANA
Lapsed(b)(43,349)(12,545)(15,203)
Forfeited
(4,709)(2,366)(1,871)
Outstanding,December 31
85,09985,52755,886
(a)2004 results include six months of awards for the combined Firm and six months of
awards for heritage JPMorgan Chase.All other periods reflect the awards for heritage

JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Lapsed awards represent both restricted stock for which restrictions have lapsed and RSUs
that have been converted into common stock.Restricted stock and RSUs are granted by JPMorgan Chase under the 1996
Plan at no cost to the recipient.These awards are subject to forfeiture until

certain restrictions have lapsed,including continued employment for a speci-

fied period.The recipient of a share of restricted stock is entitled to voting

rights and dividends on the common stock.An RSU entitles the recipient to

receive a share of common stock after the applicable restrictions lapse;the
The following table presents a summary of JPMorgan ChaseÕs broad-based employee stock option plan and SAR activity during the p
ast three years:Year ended December 31,
(a)200420032002
Number ofWeighted-averageNumber ofWeighted-averageNumber ofWeighted-average
(in thousands)options/SARsexercise priceoptionsexercise priceoptionsexercise price
Outstanding,January 1
117,822$39.11
113,155$40.6287,393$41.86
Granted
6,32139.96
12,84621.8732,55036.85
Exercised(5,960)15.26
(2,007)13.67(674)15.01
Canceled(5,999)39.18
(6,172)37.80(6,114)41.14
Outstanding,December 31
112,184$40.42
117,822$39.11113,155$40.62
Exercisable,December 31
30,082$36.33
36,396$32.8838,864$31.95
(a)All awards are for heritage JPMorgan Chase employees only.
The following table details the distribution of broad-based employee stock options and SARs outstanding at December 31,2004:
Options/SARs outstandingOptions/SARs exercisable
(in thousands)Weighted-averageWeighted-average remainingWeighted-average
Range of exercise pricesOutstandingexercise pricecontractual life (in years)Exercisableexercise price
$20.01Ð$35.00
17,750$24.725.67,319$28.79
$35.01Ð$50.00
73,29841.115.622,76338.76
$50.01Ð$51.22
21,13651.226.1ÑÑ
Total
(a)112,184$40.425.730,082$36.33
(a)All awards are for heritage JPMorgan Chase employees only.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
97The following table presents JPMorgan ChaseÕs weighted-average grant-date
fair values for the employee stock-based compensation awards granted,and

the assumptions used to value stock options and SARs under a Black-Scholes

valuation model:
Year ended December 31,
(a)200420032002
Weighted-average grant-date fair value
Stock options:Key employee
$13.04
$5.60$11.57
Broad-based employee10.714.9813.01
Converted Bank One options14.05NANA
Restricted stock and RSUs (all payable solely in stock)
39.5822.0336.28
Weighted-average annualized 
stock option valuation assumptionsRisk-free interest rate
3.44%3.19%4.61%
Expected dividend yield(b)3.595.993.72
Expected common stock price volatility414439
Assumed weighted-average expected 
life of stock options (in years)
Key employee
6.86.86.8
Broad-based employee3.83.86.8
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Based primarily on historical data at the grant dates.
Comparison of the fair and intrinsic value measurement methods
Pre-tax employee stock-based compensation expense related to these plans
totaled $1.3 billion in 2004,$919 million in 2003 and $590 million in 2002.In

response to the fact that the adoption of SFAS 123 eliminated the difference in

the expense impact of issuing options and restricted stock,the Firm changed its

incentive compensation policies upon the adoption of SFAS 123 to permit

employees to elect to receive incentive awards in the form of options,restricted

stock or a combination of both.The $266 million impact of the adoption of

SFAS 123 in 2003 is comprised of (i) $86 million representing the value of stock

options granted during 2003 and (ii) $180 million representing the value of

restricted stock granted during 2003 that would have been issuable solely in the

form of stock options prior to the adoption of SFAS 123.
The following table presents net income (after-tax) and basic and diluted earn-
ings per share as reported,and as if all outstanding awards were accounted for

at fair value:
Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions,except per share data)
200420032002
Net income as reported$4,466
$6,719$1,663
Add:Employee stock-based 
compensation expense 
originally included in 
reported net income778551354
Deduct:Employee stock-based 
compensation expense
determined under the fair value method for all awards
(960)(863)(1,232)
Pro forma net income$4,284
$6,407$785
Earnings per share:Basic:As reported
$1.59
$3.32$0.81
Pro forma1.523.160.37
Diluted:As reported
$1.55
$3.24$0.80
Pro forma1.483.090.37
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
98JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Note 9ÐSecurities and 
private equity investmentsSecurities are classified as AFS,Held-to-maturity (ÒHTMÓ) or Trading.Trading
securities are discussed in Note 3 on pages 90Ð91.Securities are classified as

AFS when,in managementÕs judgment,they may be sold in response to or in

anticipation of changes in market conditions,or as part of the FirmÕs manage-

ment of its structural interest rate risk.AFS securities are carried at fair value

on the Consolidated balance sheets.Unrealized gains and losses after SFAS

133 valuation adjustments are reported as net increases or decreases to

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).The specific identification

method is used to determine realized gains and losses on AFS securities,

which are included in Securities/private equity gains on the Consolidated

statements of income.Securities that the Firm has the positive intent and

ability to hold to maturity are classified as HTM and are carried at amortized
cost on the Consolidated balance sheets.
The following table presents realized gains and losses from AFS securities and
private equity gains (losses):
Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200420032002
Realized gains$576
$2,123$1,904
Realized losses(238)(677)(341)
Net realized securities gains3381,4461,563
Private equity gains (losses)
1,53633(746)
Total Securities/private 
equity gains $1,874
$1,479$817
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of AFS and held-to-maturity securities were as follows for the dates indicated:
20042003(a)GrossGrossGrossGross
AmortizedunrealizedunrealizedFairAmortizedunrealizedunrealizedFair
December 31,(in millions)costgainslossesvaluecostgainslossesvalue
Available-for-sale securities
U.S.government and federal agencies/
corporations obligations:
Mortgage-backed securities
$46,577$165$601$46,141
$32,248$101$417$31,932
Collateralized mortgage obligations
68244682
1,8253Ñ1,828
U.S.treasuries
13,621722213,406
11,5111316811,356
Agency obligations1,4231891,432
1062Ñ108
Obligations of state and political subdivisions2,74812682,866
2,841171522,960
Debt securities issued by non-U.S.governments
7,90159387,922
7,23247417,238
Corporate debt securities
7,007127187,116
818238833
Equity securities5,81039145,835
1,39324111,406
Other,primarily asset-backed securities
(b)9,05225759,002
2,448611022,407
Total available-for-sale securities
$94,821$570$989$94,402
$60,422$445$799$60,068
Held-to-maturity securities(c)Total held-to-maturity securities 
$110$7$Ñ$117
$176$10$Ñ$186
(a)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b) Includes collateralized mortgage obligations of private issuers,which generally have underlying collateral consisting of ob
ligations of U.S.government and federal agencies and corporations.
(c)Consists primarily of mortgage-backed securities.
Note 8 Ð Noninterest expense
Merger costs
Costs associated with the Bank One merger in 2004,and costs associated

with various programs announced prior to January 1,2002 and incurred as 

of December 31,2002,were reflected in the Merger costs caption of the

Consolidated statements of income.A summary of such costs,by expense 

category,is shown in the following table for 2004,2003 and 2002.
Year ended December 31,
(a)(in millions)200420032002
Expense categoryCompensation$467
$Ñ$379
Occupancy448Ñ216
Technology and communications and other
450Ñ615
Total
(b)$1,365
$Ñ$1,210
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of h
eritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)With the exception of occupancy-related write-offs,all of the costs in the table require the
expenditure of cash.The table below shows the change in the liability balance related to the costs
associated with the Bank One merger.
Year ended December 31,
(a) (in millions)20042003Liability balance,beginning of period
$Ñ$ÑRecorded as merger costs1,365ÑRecorded as goodwill1,028ÑLiability utilized (1,441)ÑTotal
$952
$Ñ(a)2004 activity includes six months of the combined FirmÕs activity and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase activity,while 2003 activity includes h
eritage JPMorgan Chase only.
The following table presents the fair value and unrealized losses for AFS securities by aging category:
Securities with unrealized lossesLess than 12 months 12 months or more    
Total
GrossGrossTotalGross
FairunrealizedFairunrealizedFairunrealized
December 31,2004 (in millions) valuelossesvaluelossesvaluelosses
Available-for-sale securities
U.S.government and federal agencies/corporations obligations:
Mortgage-backed securities
$33,806$274$11,884$327$45,690$601
Collateralized mortgage obligations
27842Ñ2804
U.S.treasuries
10,1861549406811,126222
Agency obligations
1,30393Ñ1,3069
Obligations of state and political subdivisions67869627748
Debt securities issued by non-U.S.governments
3,39517624214,01938
Corporate debt securities
1,1031312551,22818
Equity securities1,8041423Ñ1,82714
Other,primarily asset-backed securities
1,89641321342,21775
Total securities with unrealized losses
$54,449$532$14,018$457$68,467$989
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
99Available-for-sale securitiesHeld-to-maturity securities
Maturity schedule of securitiesAmortizedFairAverageAmortizedFairAverage
December 31,2004 (in millions)costvalueyield
(a)costvalueyield
(a)Due in one year or less$8,641$8,6442.44%$Ñ$ÑÑ%
Due after one year through five years
19,64019,6003.18ÑÑÑ
Due after five years through 10 years9,2709,2783.7716166.96
Due after 10 years(b)57,27056,8804.48941016.88
Total securities
$94,821$94,4023.95%$110$1176.89%
(a)The average yield is based on amortized cost balances at year-end.Yields are derived by dividing interest income by total am
ortized cost.Taxable-equivalent yields are used where applicable.
(b)Includes securities with no stated maturity.Substantially all of JPMorgan ChaseÕs MBSs and CMOs are due in 10 years or more 
based on contractual maturity.The estimated duration,which reflects
anticipated future prepayments based on a consensus of dealers in the market,is approximately four years for MBSs and CMOs.
Impairment is evaluated considering numerous factors,and their relative sig-
nificance varies case to case.Factors considered include the length of time

and extent to which the market value has been less than cost;the financial

condition and near-term prospects of the issuer;and the intent and ability to

retain the security in order to allow for an anticipated recovery in market

value.If,based on the analysis,it is determined that the impairment is other-

than-temporary,the security is written down to fair value,and a loss is recog-

nized through earnings.
Included in the $989 million of gross unrealized losses on AFS securities at
December 31,2004,was $457 million of unrealized losses that have existed

for a period greater than 12 months.These securities are predominately rated

AAA and the unrealized losses are due to overall increases in market interest

rates and not due to underlying credit concerns of the issuers.Substantially

all of the securities with unrealized losses aged greater than 12 months have
a market value at December 31,2004,that is within 3% of their amortized

cost basis.
The Firm believes that all aged unrealized losses,as described above,are

expected to be recovered within a reasonable time through a typical interest
rate cycle.Accordingly,the Firm has concluded that none of the securities in its

investment portfolios are other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31,2004.
In calculating the effective yield for mortgage-backed securities (ÒMBSÓ) and
collateralized mortgage obligations (ÒCMOÓ),JPMorgan Chase includes the

effect of principal prepayments.Management regularly performs simulation

testing to determine the impact that market conditions would have on its MBS

and CMO portfolios.MBSs and CMOs that management believes have pre-

payment risk are included in the AFS portfolio and are reported at fair value.
The following table presents the amortized cost,estimated fair value and
average yield at December 31,2004,of JPMorgan ChaseÕs AFS and HTM

securities by contractual maturity:
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
100JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Private equity investments are primarily held by the Private Equity business
within Corporate (which includes JPMorgan Partners,reported as a stand-

alone business segment prior to the Merger,and Bank OneÕs ONE Equity

Partners).The Private Equity business invests in buyouts,growth equity and

venture opportunities in the normal course of business.These investments are

accounted for under investment company guidelines.Accordingly,these

investments,irrespective of the percentage of equity ownership interest held

by Private Equity,are carried on the Consolidated balance sheets at fair value.

Realized and unrealized gains and losses arising from changes in value are

reported in Securities/private equity gains in the Consolidated statements of

income in the period that the gains or losses occur.
Private investments are initially valued based on cost.The carrying values of
private investments are adjusted from cost to reflect both positive and nega-

tive changes evidenced by financing events with third-party capital providers.

In addition,these investments are subject to ongoing impairment reviews by

Private EquityÕs senior investment professionals.A variety of factors are

reviewed and monitored to assess impairment Ð including,but not limited to,

operating performance and future expectations,comparable industry valua-

tions of public companies,changes in market outlook and changes in the

third-party financing environment.The Valuation Control Group within the

Finance area is responsible for reviewing the accuracy of the carrying values

of private investments held by Private Equity.
Private Equity also holds publicly-held equity investments,generally obtained
through the initial public offering of private equity investments.These invest-

ments are marked to market at the quoted public value.To determine the 

carrying values of these investments,Private Equity incorporates the use of

discounts to take into account the fact that it cannot immediately realize or

risk manage the quoted public values as a result of regulatory,corporate

and/or contractual sales restrictions imposed on these holdings.
The following table presents the carrying value and cost of the Private Equity
investment portfolio for the dates indicated:20042003(a)CarryingCarrying
December 31,(in millions)valueCostvalueCost
Total private 
equity investments$7,735$9,103
$7,250$9,147
(a)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Note 10ÐSecurities financing activities
JPMorgan Chase enters into resale agreements,repurchase agreements,
securities borrowed transactions and securities loaned transactions primarily

to finance the FirmÕs inventory positions,acquire securities to cover short

positions and settle other securities obligations.The Firm also enters into

these transactions to accommodate customersÕ needs.
Securities purchased under resale agreements (Òresale agreementsÓ) and secu-rities sold under repurchase agreements (Òrepurchase agreementsÓ) are gener-
ally treated as collateralized financing transactions and are carried on the

Consolidated balance sheets at the amounts the securities will be subsequently
sold or repurchased,plus accrued interest.Where appropriate,resale and repur-

chase agreements with the same counterparty are reported on a net basis in
accordance with FIN 41.JPMorgan Chase takes possession of securities pur-

chased under resale agreements.On a daily basis,JPMorgan Chase monitors

the market value of the underlying collateral received from its counterparties,

consisting primarily of U.S.and non-U.S.government and agency securities,and

requests additional collateral from its counterparties when necessary.
Transactions similar to financing activities that do not meet the SFAS 140 defini-
tion of a repurchase agreement are accounted for as ÒbuysÓand ÒsellsÓrather

than financing transactions.These transactions are accounted for as a purchase

(sale) of the underlying securities with a forward obligation to sell (purchase)

the securities.The forward purchase (sale) obligation,a derivative,is recorded

on the Consolidated balance sheets at its fair value,with changes in fair value

recorded in Trading revenue.Notional amounts of transactions accounted for as

purchases under SFAS 140 were $6 billion at December 31,2004,and $15 bil-

lion at December 31,2003,respectively.Notional amounts of transactions

accounted for as sales under SFAS 140 were $20 billion and $8 billion at

December 31,2004,and December 31,2003,respectively.Based on the short-

term duration of these contracts,the unrealized gain or loss is insignificant.
Securities borrowed and securities lent are recorded at the amount of cashcollateral advanced or received.Securities borrowed consist primarily of 

government and equity securities.JPMorgan Chase monitors the market value

of the securities borrowed and lent on a daily basis and calls for additional
collateral when appropriate.Fees received or paid are recorded in Interest

income or Interest expense.
December 31,(in millions)
20042003(a)Securities purchased under resale agreements$94,076
$62,801
Securities borrowed47,42841,834Securities sold under repurchase agreements$105,912
$103,610
Securities loaned6,4354,260(a) Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
JPMorgan Chase pledges certain financial instruments it owns to collateralize
repurchase agreements and other securities financings.Pledged securities that

can be sold or repledged by the secured party are identified as financial instru-
ments owned (pledged to various parties) on the Consolidated balance sheets.
At December 31,2004,the Firm had received securities as collateral that can
be repledged,delivered or otherwise used with a fair value of approximately

$252 billion.This collateral was generally obtained under resale or securities

borrowing agreements.Of these securities,approximately $238 billion were

repledged,delivered or otherwise used,generally as collateral under repurchase

agreements,securities lending agreements or to cover short sales.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
101Note 11ÐLoans
Loans are reported at the principal amount outstanding,net of the Allowance
for loan losses,unearned income and any net deferred loan fees.Loans held

for sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value,with valuation changes

recorded in noninterest revenue.Loans are classified as ÒtradingÓwhere posi-

tions are bought and sold to make profits from short-term movements in

price.Loans held for trading purposes are included in Trading assets and are

carried at fair value,with the gains and losses included in Trading revenue.

Interest income is recognized using the interest method,or on a basis approx-

imating a level rate of return over the term of the loan.
Nonaccrual loans are those on which the accrual of interest is discontinued.Loans (other than certain consumer loans discussed below) are placed on
nonaccrual status immediately if,in the opinion of management,full payment

of principal or interest is in doubt,or when principal or interest is 90 days or

more past due and collateral,if any,is insufficient to cover principal and inter-

est.Interest accrued but not collected at the date a loan is placed on nonac-

crual status is reversed against Interest income.In addition,the amortization

of net deferred loan fees is suspended.Interest income on nonaccrual loans is

recognized only to the extent it is received in cash.However,where there is

doubt regarding the ultimate collectibility of loan principal,all cash thereafter

received is applied to reduce the carrying value of the loan.Loans are

restored to accrual status only when interest and principal payments are
brought current and future payments are reasonably assured.Consumer loans are generally charged to the Allowance for loan losses upon
reaching specified stages of delinquency,in accordance with the Federal

Financial Institutions Examination Council (ÒFFIECÓ) policy.For example,credit

card loans are charged off by the end of the month in which the account
becomes 180 days past due or within 60 days from receiving notification of
the filing of bankruptcy,whichever is earlier.Residential mortgage products

are generally charged off to net realizable value at 180 days past due.Other

consumer products are generally charged off (to net realizable value if collat-

eralized) at 120 days past due.Accrued interest on residential mortgage 

products,auto & education financings and certain other consumer loans are

accounted for in accordance with the nonaccrual loan policy discussed above.

Interest and fees related to credit card loans continue to accrue until the loan
is charged-off or paid.Accrued interest on all other loans is generally

reversed against interest income when the consumer loan is charged off.A

collateralized loan is considered an in-substance foreclosure and is reclassi-

fied to assets acquired in loan satisfactions,within Other assets,only when

JPMorgan Chase has taken physical possession of the collateral.This is

regardless of whether formal foreclosure proceedings have taken place.
The composition of the loan portfolio at each of the dates indicated was as

follows:December 31,(in millions)
20042003(a)U.S.wholesale loans:
Commercial and industrial$60,223
$30,748
Real estate13,0382,775Financial institutions
14,0608,346Lease financing receivables
4,043606Other8,5041,850Total U.S.wholesale loans
99,86844,325Non-U.S.wholesale loans:
Commercial and industrial25,11522,916Real estate1,7471,819Financial institutions
7,2696,269Lease financing receivables
1,06890Total non-U.S.wholesale loans
35,19931,094Total wholesale loans:
(b)Commercial and industrial85,33853,664Real estate(c)14,7854,594Financial institutions
21,32914,615Lease financing receivables
5,111696Other8,5041,850Total wholesale loans
135,06775,419Total consumer loans:
(d)Consumer real estateHome finance Ð home equity & other67,83724,179Home finance Ð mortgage56,81650,381Total Home finance
124,65374,560Auto & education finance62,71243,157Consumer & small business and other 15,1074,204Credit card receivables
(e)64,57517,426Total consumer loans
267,047139,347Total loans
(f)(g)(h)$402,114
$214,766
(a)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Includes Investment Bank,Commercial Banking,Treasury & Securities Services and Asset &
Wealth Management.
(c)Represents credits extended for real estateÐrelated purposes to borrowers who are primarily
in the real estate development or investment businesses and for which the primary repay-
ment is from the sale,lease,management,operations or refinancing of the property.
(d)Includes Retail Financial Services and Card Services.

(e)Includes billed finance charges and fees net of an allowance for uncollectible amounts.

(f)Loans are presented net of unearned income of $4.1 billion and $1.3 billion at December
31,2004,and December 31,2003,respectively.
(g)Includes loans held for sale (principally mortgage-related loans) of $25.7 billion at
December 31,2004,and $20.8 billion at December 31,2003.
(h)Amounts are presented gross of the Allowance for loan losses.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
102JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
The following table reflects information about the FirmÕs loans held for sale,
principally mortgage-related:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200420032002
Net gains on sales of loans held for sale$368
$933$754
Lower of cost or market adjustments
3926(36)
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Impaired loans
JPMorgan Chase accounts for and discloses nonaccrual loans as impaired
loans and recognizes their interest income as discussed previously for nonac-
crual loans.The Firm excludes from impaired loans its small-balance,homoge-

neous consumer loans;loans carried at fair value or the lower of cost or fair

value;debt securities;and leases.
The table below sets forth information about JPMorgan ChaseÕs impaired
loans.The Firm primarily uses the discounted cash flow method for valuing

impaired loans:December 31,(in millions)
20042003(a)Impaired loans with an allowance
$1,496
$1,597
Impaired loans without an allowance
(b)284406Total impaired loans
$1,780
$2,003
Allowance for impaired loans under SFAS 114
(c)$521
$595
Average balance of impaired loans during the year
1,8832,969Interest income recognized on impaired loans during the year84(a)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)When the discounted cash flows,collateral value or market price equals or exceeds the 
carrying value of the loan,then the loan does not require an allowance under SFAS 114.
(c)The allowance for impaired loans under SFAS 114 is included in JPMorgan ChaseÕs
Allowance for loan losses.
Note 12ÐAllowance for credit losses
JPMorgan ChaseÕs Allowance for loan losses covers the wholesale (primarily
risk-rated) and consumer (primarily scored) loan portfolios and represents man-

agementÕs estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the FirmÕs loan portfo-

lio.Management also computes an Allowance for wholesale lending-related

commitments using a methodology similar to that used for the wholesale loans.
As a result of the Merger,management modified its methodology for determin-
ing the Provision for credit losses for the combined Firm.The effect of conform-

ing methodologies in 2004 was a decrease in the consumer allowance of $254

million and a decrease in the wholesale allowance (including both funded loans

and lending-related commitments) of $330 million.In addition,the Bank One

sellerÕs interest in credit card securitizations was decertificated;this resulted in

an increase to the provision for loan losses of approximately $1.4 billion

(pre-tax) in 2004.The Allowance for loan losses consists of two components:asset-specific loss
and formula-based loss.Within the formula-based loss is a statistical calcula-

tion and an adjustment to the statistical calculation.The asset-specific loss component relates to provisions for losses on loans 

considered impaired and measured pursuant to SFAS 114.An allowance is

established when the discounted cash flows (or collateral value or observable

market price) of the loan are lower than the carrying value of that loan.To

compute the asset-specific loss component of the allowance larger impaired

loans are evaluated individually,and smaller impaired loans are evaluated as a

pool using historical loss experience for the respective class of assets.
The formula-based loss component covers performing wholesale and consumer
loans and is the product of a statistical calculation,as well as adjustments to

such calculation.These adjustments take into consideration model imprecision,

external factors and economic events that have occurred but are not yet
reflected in the factors used to derive the statistical calculation.The statistical calculation is the product of probability of default and loss
given default.For risk-rated loans (generally loans originated by the whole-

sale lines of business),these factors are differentiated by risk rating and

maturity.For scored loans (generally loans originated by the consumer lines of

business),loss is primarily determined by applying statistical loss factors and

other risk indicators to pools of loans by asset type.Adjustments to the statis-

tical calculation for the risk-rated portfolios are determined by creating esti-

mated ranges using historical experience of both loss given default and prob-

ability of default.Factors related to concentrated and deteriorating industries

are also incorporated into the calculation where relevant.Adjustments to the

statistical calculation for the scored loan portfolios are accomplished in part
by analyzing the historical loss experience for each major product segment.
The estimated ranges and the determination of the appropriate point within

the range are based upon managementÕs view of uncertainties that relate to

current macroeconomic and political conditions,quality of underwriting stan-

dards,and other relevant internal and external factors affecting the credit

quality of the portfolio.
The Allowance for lending-related commitments represents managementÕs 
estimate of probable credit losses inherent in the FirmÕs process of extending

credit.Management establishes an asset-specific allowance for lending-related

commitments that are considered impaired and computes a formula-based
allowance for performing wholesale lending-related commitments.These are

computed using a methodology similar to that used for the wholesale loan
portfolio,modified for expected maturities and probabilities of drawdown.
At least quarterly,the allowance for credit losses is reviewed by the Chief Risk
Officer and the Deputy Chief Risk Officer of the Firm and is discussed with a
risk subgroup of the Operating Committee,relative to the risk profile of the

FirmÕs credit portfolio and current economic conditions.As of December 31,

2004,JPMorgan Chase deemed the allowance for credit losses to be appro-

priate (i.e.,sufficient to absorb losses that are inherent in the portfolio,

including those not yet identifiable).JPMorgan Chase maintains an Allowance for credit losses as follows:
Reported in:Allowance for 
credit losses on:Balance sheetIncome statement
LoansAllowance for loan lossesProvision for credit losses
Lending-related commitmentsOther liabilitiesProvision for credit losses
The table below summarizes the changes in the Allowance for loan losses:
December 31,(a)(in millions)20042003Allowance for loan losses at January 1
$ 4,523$ 5,350Addition resulting from the Merger,July 1,2004
3,123ÑGross charge-offs(b)(3,805)(2,818)Gross recoveries706546Net charge-offs(3,099)(2,272)Provision for loan losses:Provision excluding accounting policy conformity 1,7981,579Accounting policy conformity(c)1,085ÑTotal Provision for loan losses
2,8831,579Other(d)(110)(134)Allowance for loan losses at December 31
(e)$ 7,320$4,523
(a) 2004 activity includes six months of the combined FirmÕs activity and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase activity,while 2003 activity includes heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b) Includes $406 million related to the Manufactured Home Loan portfolio in the fourth
quarter of 2004.(c) Represents an increase of approximately $1.4 billion as a result of the decertification of 
heritage Bank OneÕs sellerÕs interest in credit card securitizations,partially offset by a 

reduction of $357 million to conform provision methodologies.
(d) Primarily represents the transfer of the allowance for accrued interest and fees on reported
credit card loans.
(e)2004 includes $469 million of asset-specific loss and $6.8 billion of formula-based loss.
Included within the formula-based loss is $4.8 billion related to statistical calculation and
an adjustment to the statistical calculation of $2.0 billion.The table below summarizes the changes in the Allowance for lending-related
commitments:December 31,(a)(in millions)20042003Allowance for lending-related commitments 
at January 1
$ 324$ 363Addition resulting from the Merger,July 1,2004
508ÑProvision for lending-related commitments:Provision excluding accounting policy conformity (112)(39)Accounting policy conformity(b)(227)ÑTotal Provision for lending-related commitments
(339)(39)Other(1)ÑAllowance for lending-related commitments 
at December 31(c)$ 492$324
(a) 2004 activity includes six months of the combined FirmÕs activity and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase activity,while 2003 activity includes heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b) Represents a reduction of $227 million to conform provision methodologies in the whole-
sale portfolio.
(c) 2004 includes $130 million of asset-specific loss and $362 million of formula-based loss.
Note:The formula-based loss for lending-related commitments is based on statistical calcu-

lation.There is no adjustment to the statistical calculation for lending-related commitments.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
103Note 13ÐLoan securitizations
JPMorgan Chase securitizes,sells and services various consumer loans,such
as consumer real estate,credit card and automobile loans,as well as certain

wholesale loans (primarily real estate) originated by the Investment Bank.In

addition,the Investment Bank purchases,packages and securitizes commer-

cial and consumer loans.All IB activity is collectively referred to as Wholesale

activities below.Interests in the sold and securitized loans may be retained as

described below.
The Firm records a loan securitization as a sale when the transferred loans
are legally isolated from the FirmÕs creditors and the accounting criteria for a

sale are met.Gains or losses recorded on loan securitizations depend,in part,

on the carrying amount of the loans sold and are allocated between the loans
sold and the retained interests,based on their relative fair values at the date

of sale.Since quoted market prices are generally not available,the Firm 

usually estimates the fair value of these retained interests by determining 

the present value of future expected cash flows using modeling techniques.

Such models incorporate managementÕs best estimates of key variables,such

as expected credit losses,prepayment speeds and the discount rates appropri-

ate for the risks involved.Gains on securitizations are reported in noninterest

revenue.Retained interests that are subject to prepayment risk,such that

JPMorgan Chase may not recover substantially all of its investment,are

recorded at fair value;subsequent adjustments are reflected in Other compre-

hensive income or in earnings,if the fair value of the retained interest has

declined below its carrying amount and such decline has been determined to
be other-than-temporary.
JPMorgan ChaseÐsponsored securitizations utilize SPEs as part of the securiti-zation process.These SPEs are structured to meet the definition of a QSPE (as

discussed in Note 1 on page 88 of this Annual Report);accordingly,the assets

and liabilities of securitization-related QSPEs are not reflected in the FirmÕs

Consolidated balance sheets (except for retained interests,as described

below) but are included on the balance sheet of the QSPE purchasing the
assets.Assets held by securitization-related SPEs as of December 31,2004

and 2003,were as follows:
December 31,(in billions)
20042003(a)Credit card receivables 
$106.3
$42.6
Residential mortgage receivables
19.121.1Wholesale activities44.833.8Automobile loans4.96.5Total
$175.1
$104.0
(a)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Interests in the securitized loans are generally retained by the Firm in the
form of senior or subordinated interest-only strips,subordinated tranches,

escrow accounts and servicing rights,and they are primarily recorded in Other

assets.In addition,credit card securitization trusts require the Firm to main-

tain a minimum undivided interest in the trusts,representing the FirmÕs inter-

ests in the receivables transferred to the trust that have not been securitized.

These interests are not represented by security certificates.The FirmÕs undivided

interests are carried at historical cost and are classified in Loans.
JPMorgan Chase retains servicing responsibilities for all residential mortgage,
credit card and automobile loan securitizations and for certain wholesale
activity securitizations it sponsors,and receives annual servicing fees based
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
104JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Year ended December 31,
(a)20042003WholesaleWholesale
(in millions)MortgageCredit cardAutomobileactivities
(d)MortgageCredit cardAutomobileactivities
Principal securitized $6,529$8,850$1,600$8,756
$13,270$8,823$4,510$5,386
Pre-tax gains (losses)4752(3)135
1684413107
Cash flow information:
Proceeds from securitizations$6,608$8,850$1,597$8,430
$13,540$8,823$4,503$5,493
Servicing fees collected126913
2079152
Other cash flows received25225Ñ16
2216128
Proceeds from collections reinvested in revolving securitizationsÑ110,697ÑÑ
Ñ58,199Ñ
ÑKey assumptions
(rates per annum):
Prepayment rate
(b)23.8Ð37.6% 15.5Ð16.7%1.5%17.0Ð50.0%
10.1Ð36.2% 8.1Ð16.5%1.5Ð1.6%50.0%
CPRPPRABS
CPRPPRABS
Weighted-average life (in years)
1.9Ð3.00.5Ð0.61.82.0Ð4.0
2.0Ð4.60.6Ð1.01.7Ð1.8 1.3Ð5.2
Expected credit losses1.0Ð2.3%5.5Ð5.8%0.6%0.0Ð3.0%
(c)0.0Ð2.5%(c)5.5Ð8.0%0.5Ð0.6%0.0%
(c)Discount rate
15.0Ð30.0%12.0%4.1%0.6Ð5.0%
13.0Ð30.0%12.0%3.9Ð4.5%1.0Ð5.0%
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.All other p
eriods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)CPR:constant prepayment rate;ABS:absolute prepayment speed;PPR:principal payment rate.

(c)Expected credit losses for prime residential mortgage and certain wholesale securitizations are minimal and are incorporated
 into other assumptions.
(d)Wholesale activities consist of wholesale loans (primarily real estate) originated by the Investment Bank as well as $1.8 bi
llion of consumer loans purchased from the market,packaged and securi-
tized by the Investment Bank.In addition to securitization transactions,the Firm sold residential mortgage
loans totaling $65.7 billion and $123.2 billion during 2004 and 2003,
respectively,primarily as GNMA,FNMA and Freddie Mac mortgage-backed

securities;these sales resulted in pre-tax gains of $58.1 million and $564.3

million,respectively.
At both December 31,2004 and 2003,the Firm had,with respect to its credit
card master trusts,$35.2 billion and $7.3 billion,respectively,related to its

undivided interest,and $2.1 billion and $1.1 billion,respectively,related to its

subordinated interest in accrued interest and fees on the securitized receiv-
ables,net of an allowance for uncollectible amounts.Credit card securitiza-

tion trusts require the Firm to maintain a minimum undivided interest of 4%
to 7% of the principal receivables in the trusts.The Firm maintained an aver-

age undivided interest in its principal receivables in the trusts of approximate-

ly 23% and 17% for 2004 and 2003,respectively.
The Firm also maintains escrow accounts up to predetermined limits for some
of its credit card and automobile securitizations,in the unlikely event of defi-

ciencies in cash flows owed to investors.The amounts available in such

escrow accounts are recorded in Other assets and,as of December 31,2004,

amounted to $395 million and $132 million for credit card and automobile
securitizations,respectively;as of December 31,2003,these amounts were

$456 million and $137 million for credit card and automobile securitizations,

respectively.
The table below summarizes other retained securitization interests,which are

primarily subordinated or residual interests and are carried at fair value on

the FirmÕs Consolidated balance sheets:
December 31,(in millions)
20042003(a)Residential mortgage(b)$433
$570
Credit card(b)494193Automobile(b)85151Wholesale activities2334Total
$1,035
$948
(a)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Pre-tax unrealized gains (losses) recorded in StockholdersÕ equity that relate to retained
securitization interests totaled $118 million and $155 million for Residential mortgage;
$(3) million and $11 million for Credit cards;and $11 million and $6 million for Automobile

at December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively.
on the securitized loan balance plus certain ancillary fees.The Firm also
retains the right to service the residential mortgage loans it sells in connection
with mortgage-backed securities transactions with the Government National

Mortgage Association (ÒGNMAÓ),Federal National Mortgage Association

(ÒFNMAÓ) and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (ÒFreddie MacÓ).

For a discussion of mortgage servicing rights,see Note 15 on pages 109Ð111

of this Annual Report.
The following table summarizes new securitization transactions that were
completed during 2004 and 2003,the resulting gains arising from such secu-

ritizations,certain cash flows received from such securitizations,and the key

economic assumptions used in measuring the retained interests,as of the

dates of such sales:The table below displays the expected static-pool net credit losses for 2004,2003 and 2002,based on securitizations occurring i
n that year:Loans securitized in:(a)20042003(b)2002(b)MortgageAutomobileMortgageAutomobileMortgageAutomobile
December 31,2004
0.0Ð3.3%1.1%
0.0Ð2.1%0.9%0.0Ð2.4%0.8%
December 31,2003
NANA
0.0Ð3.60.90.0Ð2.80.8
December 31,2002
NANA
NANA0.1Ð3.70.9
(a) Static-pool losses not applicable to credit card securitizations,due to their revolving structure.
(b)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
105The table below outlines the key economic assumptions used to determine the fair value of the remaining retained interests at D
ecember 31,2004 and 2003,
respectively;and the sensitivities to those fair values to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in those assumptions:
December 31,2004
(in millions)Mortgage Credit cardAutomobileWholesale activities
Weighted-average life (in years)
0.8Ð3.40.5Ð1.01.30.2Ð4.0
Prepayment rate
15.1Ð37.1% CPR8.3Ð16.7% PPR1.4% ABS0.0Ð50.0%
(b)Impact of 10% adverse change$   (5)$  (34)$  (6)$(1)
Impact of 20% adverse change(8)(69)(13)(1)
Loss assumption0.0Ð5.0%(c)5.7Ð8.4%0.7%0.0Ð3.0%
(c)Impact of 10% adverse change$  (17)$ (144)$ (4)$Ñ
Impact of 20% adverse change(34)(280)(8)Ñ
Discount rate
13.0Ð30.0%
(d)4.9Ð12.0%5.5%1.0Ð22.9%
Impact of 10% adverse change$    (9)$    (2)$  (1)$Ñ
Impact of 20% adverse change(18)(4)(2)Ñ
December 31,2003 (in millions)
(a)Mortgage Credit cardAutomobileWholesale activities
Weighted-average life (in years)1.4Ð2.70.4Ð1.31.50.6Ð5.9
Prepayment rate29.0Ð31.7% CPR8.1Ð15.1% PPR1.5% ABS0.0Ð50.0%
(b)Impact of 10% adverse change$   (17)$     (7)$ (10)$(1)
Impact of 20% adverse change(31)(13)(19)(2)
Loss assumption0.0Ð4.0%
(c)5.5Ð8.0%0.6%0.0%
(c)Impact of 10% adverse change$   (28)$    (21)$  (6)$Ñ
Impact of 20% adverse change(57)(41)(12)Ñ
Discount rate13.0Ð30.0%
(d)8.3Ð12.0%4.4%5.0Ð20.9%
Impact of 10% adverse change$   (14)$    (1)$   (1)$  (1)
Impact of 20% adverse change(27)(3)(2)(2)
(a)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Prepayment risk on certain wholesale retained interests are minimal and are incorporated into other assumptions.

(c)Expected credit losses for prime residential mortgage and certain wholesale securitizations are minimal and are incorporated
 into other assumptions.
(d)The Firm sells certain residual interests from sub-prime mortgage securitizations via Net Interest Margin (ÒNIMÓ) securitiza
tions and retains residuals interests in these NIM transactions,which are
valued using a 30% discount rate.
The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical.Changes in fair
value based on a 10% or 20% variation in assumptions generally cannot be

extrapolated easily,because the relationship of the change in the assump-

tions to the change in fair value may not be linear.Also,in this table,the

effect that a change in a particular assumption may have on the fair value is
calculated without changing any other assumption.In reality,changes in one
factor may result in changes in another assumption,which might counteract

or magnify the sensitivities.
Expected static-pool net credit losses include actual incurred losses plus pro-jected net credit losses,divided by the original balance of the outstandings

comprising the securitization pool.Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
106JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
The table below presents information about delinquencies,net credit losses and components of reported and securitized financial
 assets at December 31,2004 and 2003:
Nonaccrual and 90 days orNet loan charge-offs
(b)Total Loansmore past dueYear ended
December 31,(in millions)
20042003(a)20042003(a)20042003Home finance$124,653
$74,560
$673
$374
$573
$135
Auto & education finance62,71243,157193123263171Consumer & small business and other 15,1074,2042957215475Credit card receivables
64,57517,4261,0062841,9231,126Total consumer loans
267,047139,3472,1678532,9131,507Total wholesale loans
135,06775,4191,5822,046186765Total loans reported 
402,114214,7663,7492,8993,0992,272Securitized loans:Residential mortgage(c)11,53315,564460594150191Automobile 4,7636,31512132425Credit card70,79534,8561,3378792,8981,870Total consumer loans securitized
87,09156,7351,8091,4863,0722,086Securitized wholesale activities1,4012,108Ñ9ÑÑTotal loans securitized
(d)88,49258,8431,8091,4953,0722,086Total loans reported and securitized
(e)$490,606
$273,609
$5,558
$4,394
$6,171
$ 4,358(a)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.All other p
eriods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(c)Includes $10.3 billion and $13.6 billion of outstanding principal balances on securitized sub-prime 1Ð4 family residential m
ortgage loans as of December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively.
(d)Total assets held in securitization-related SPEs were $175.1 billion and $104.0 billion at December 31,2004 and 2003,respect
ively.The $88.5 billion and $58.8 billion of loans securitized at
December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively,excludes:$50.8 billion and $37.1 billion of securitized loans,in which the FirmÕs only c
ontinuing involvement is the servicing of the assets;$35.2 billion
and $7.3 billion of sellerÕs interests in credit card master trusts;and $0.6 billion and $0.8 billion of escrow accounts and ot
her assets,respectively.
(e)Represents both loans on the Consolidated balance sheets and loans that have been securitized,but excludes loans for which t
he FirmÕs only continuing involvement is servicing of the assets.
Note 14ÐVariable interest entities
Refer to Note 1 on page 88 of this Annual Report for a further description of
JPMorgan ChaseÕs policies regarding consolidation of variable interest entities.
JPMorgan ChaseÕs principal involvement with VIEs occurs in the following
business segments:¥  Investment Bank:Utilizes VIEs to assist clients in accessing the financial
markets in a cost-efficient manner,by providing the structural flexibility to

meet their needs pertaining to price,yield and desired risk.There are two

broad categories of transactions involving VIEs in the IB:(1) multi-seller

conduits and (2) client intermediation;both are discussed below.The IB

also securitizes loans through QSPEs which are not considered VIEs,to 

create asset-backed securities,as further discussed in Note 13 on pages

103Ð106 of this Annual Report.
¥  Asset & Wealth Management:Provides investment management services to
a limited number of the FirmÕs mutual funds deemed VIEs.AWM earns a

fixed fee based on assets managed;the fee varies with each fundÕs invest-

ment objective and is competitively priced.For the limited number of funds

that qualify as VIEs,the FirmÕs interest is not considered significant under

FIN 46R.¥  Treasury & Securities Services:Provides trustee and custodial services to a
number of VIEs.These services are similar to those provided to non-VIEs.

TSS earns market-based fees for services provided.Such relationships are

not considered significant interests under FIN 46R.¥  Commercial Banking:Utilizes VIEs as part of its middle markets business.
This involvement includes:(1) structuring and administering independent,

member-owned finance entities for companies with dedicated distribution

systems,where the Firm may also provide some liquidity,letters of credit
and/or derivative instruments;and (2) synthetic lease transactions,in which
the Firm provides financing to a SPE;in turn,the SPE purchases assets,

which are then leased by the SPE to the FirmÕs customer.The CB earns

market-based fees for providing such services.These activities do not

involve the Firm holding a significant interest in VIEs.
¥  The FirmÕs Private Equity business,now included in Corporate,is involved
with entities that may be deemed VIEs.Private equity activities are

accounted for in accordance with the Investment Company Audit Guide

(ÒAudit GuideÓ).The FASB deferred adoption of FIN 46R for non-registered

investment companies that apply the Audit Guide until the proposed

Statement of Position on the clarification of the scope of the Audit Guide 

is finalized.The Firm continues to apply this deferral provision;had FIN

46R been applied to VIEs subject to this deferral,the impact would have

had an insignificant impact on the FirmÕs Consolidated financial statements

as of December 31,2004.
As noted above,there are two broad categories of transactions involving VIEs
with which the IB is involved:multi-seller conduits and client intermediation.

These are discussed more fully below.
Multi-seller conduits The Firm is an active participant in the asset-backed securities business,

where it helps meet customersÕ financing needs by providing access to the
commercial paper markets through VIEs known as multi-seller conduits.These

entities are separate bankruptcy-remote corporations in the business of pur-

chasing interests in,and making loans secured by,receivable pools and other

financial assets pursuant to agreements with customers.The entities fund

their purchases and loans through the issuance of highly-rated commercial

paper.The primary source of repayment of the commercial paper is the cash

flow from the pools of assets.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
107Program-wide liquidity in the form of revolving and short-term lending com-
mitments is provided by the Firm to these vehicles in the event of short-term
disruptions in the commercial paper market.
Deal-specific credit enhancement that supports the commercial paper issuedby the conduits is generally structured to cover a multiple of historical losses

expected on the pool of assets and is primarily provided by customers (i.e.,

sellers) or other third parties.The deal-specific credit enhancement is typically

in the form of over-collateralization provided by the seller but may also

include any combination of the following:recourse to the seller or originator,

cash collateral accounts,letters of credit,excess spread,retention of subordi-

nated interests or third-party guarantees.In certain instances,the Firm 

provides limited credit enhancement in the form of standby letters of credit.JPMorgan Chase serves as the administrator and provides contingent liquidity
support and limited credit enhancement for several multi-seller conduits.The

commercial paper issued by the conduits is backed by sufficient collateral,

credit enhancements and commitments to provide liquidity to support receiv-
ing at least a liquidity rating of A-1,P-1 and,in certain cases,F1.
As a means of ensuring timely repayment of the commercial paper,each asset
pool financed by the conduits has a minimum 100% deal-specific liquidity
facility associated with it.In the unlikely event an asset pool is removed from

the conduit,the administrator can draw on the liquidity facility to repay the

maturing commercial paper.The liquidity facilities are typically in the form of

asset purchase agreements and are generally structured such that the bank

liquidity is provided by purchasing,or lending against,a pool of non-defaulted,

performing assets.Deal-specific liquidity is the primary source of liquidity 

support for the conduits.
The following table summarizes the FirmÕs involvement with Firm-administered multi-seller conduits:
ConsolidatedNonconsolidatedTotal
December 31,(in billions)
2004(c)2003(b)2004(c)2003(b)(c)2004(c)2003(b)(c)Total commercial paper issued 
by conduits$35.8
$6.3
$9.3
$5.4
$45.1
$11.7
CommitmentsAsset-purchase agreements$47.2
$9.3
$16.3
$8.7
$63.5
$18.0
Program-wide liquidity commitments
4.01.62.01.06.02.6Limited credit enhancements1.40.91.21.02.61.9Maximum exposure to loss
(a)48.29.716.99.065.118.7(a) The FirmÕs maximum exposure to loss is limited to the amount of drawn commitments (i.e.,sellersÕ assets held by the multi-s
eller conduits for which the Firm provides liquidity support) of $42.2 billion and $11.7 billion at December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively,plus contractual but undrawn commitments of $22.9 bil
lion and $7.0 billion at December 31,2004 and 2003,
respectively.Since the Firm provides credit enhancement and liquidity to these multi-seller conduits,the maximum exposure is no
t adjusted to exclude exposure absorbed by third-party liquidityproviders.
(b) Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.

(c)In December 2003 and February 2004,two multi-seller conduits were restructured,with each conduit issuing preferred securitie
s acquired by an independent third-party investor;the investor
absorbs the majority of the expected losses of the conduit.In determining the primary beneficiary of the restructured conduits,
the Firm leveraged an existing rating agency model Ð an 
independent market standard Ð to estimate the size of the expected losses,and considered the relative rights and obligations of
 each of the variable interest holders.
The Firm views its credit exposure to multi-seller conduit transactions as limited.
This is because,for the most part,the Firm is not required to fund under the

liquidity facilities if the assets in the VIE are in default.Additionally,the FirmÕs

obligations under the letters of credit are secondary to the risk of first loss
provided by the customer or other third parties Ð for example,by the overcol-

lateralization of the VIE with the assets sold to it or notes subordinated to the

FirmÕs liquidity facilities.
Additionally,the Firm is involved with a structured investment vehicle (ÒSIVÓ)
that funds a diversified portfolio of highly rated assets by issuing commercial

paper,medium-term notes and capital.The assets and liabilities of this SIV

were approximately $7.1 billion and are included in the FirmÕs Consolidated

balance sheet at December 31,2004.
Client intermediationAs a financial intermediary,the Firm is involved in structuring VIE transactions

to meet investor and client needs.The Firm intermediates various types of risks

(including fixed income,equity and credit),typically using derivative instru-

ments as further discussed below.In certain circumstances,the Firm also pro-

vides liquidity and other support to the VIEs to facilitate the transaction.The

FirmÕs current exposure to nonconsolidated VIEs is reflected in its Consolidated

balance sheets or in the Notes to consolidated financial statements.The risks
inherent in derivative instruments or liquidity commitments are managed simi-

larly to other credit,market and liquidity risks to which the Firm is exposed.

The Firm intermediates principally with the following types of VIEs:structured

wholesale loan vehicles,credit-linked note vehicles,municipal bond vehicles

and other client-intermediation vehicles,as discussed below.Following this

discussion is a table summarizing the total assets held by these vehicles at
December 31,2004 and 2003.
The Firm has created structured wholesale loan vehicles managed by third
parties,in which loans are purchased from third parties or through the FirmÕs

syndication and trading functions and funded by issuing commercial paper.

The amount of the commercial paper issued by these vehicles totaled $3.4

billion and $5.3 billion as of December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively.

Investors provide collateral and have a first risk of loss up to the amount of

collateral pledged.The Firm retains a second-risk-of-loss position and does

not absorb a majority of the expected losses of the vehicles.Documentation

includes provisions intended,subject to certain conditions,to enable

JPMorgan Chase to terminate the transactions related to a particular loan

vehicle if the value of the relevant portfolio declines below a specified level.

The Firm also provides liquidity support to these VIEs.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
108JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
The Firm structures credit-linked notes in which the VIE purchases highly-rated
assets (such as asset-backed securities) and enters into a credit derivative

contract with the Firm to obtain exposure to a referenced credit not held by

the VIE.Credit-linked notes are issued by the VIE to transfer the risk of the

referenced credit to the investors in the VIE.Clients and investors often prefer

a VIE structure,since the credit-linked notes generally carry a higher credit

rating than they would if issued directly by JPMorgan Chase.
The Firm is involved with municipal bond vehicles for the purpose of creating
a series of secondary market trusts that allow tax-exempt investors to finance

their investments at short-term tax-exempt rates.The VIE purchases fixed-rate,

longer-term highly rated municipal bonds by issuing puttable floating-rate

certificates and inverse floating-rate certificates;the investors in the inverse

floating-rate certificates are exposed to the residual losses of the VIE (the

Òresidual interestsÓ).For vehicles in which the Firm owns the residual inter-

ests,the Firm consolidates the VIE.In vehicles where third-party investors

own the residual interests,the FirmÕs exposure is limited because of the high

credit quality of the underlying municipal bonds,the unwind triggers based

on the market value of the underlying collateral and the residual interests

held by third parties.The Firm often serves as remarketing agent for the VIE

and provides liquidity to support the remarketing.
Additionally,JPMorgan Chase structures,on behalf of clients,other client
intermediation vehicles in which the Firm transfers the risks and returns of 

the assets held by the VIE,typically debt and equity instruments,to clients

through derivative contracts.
Assets held by certain client intermediationÐrelated VIEs at December 31,
2004 and 2003,were as follows:
December 31,(in billions)
20042003(e)Structured wholesale loan vehicles(a)$3.4
$5.3
Credit-linked note vehicles
(b)17.817.7Municipal bond vehicles(c)7.55.5Other client intermediation vehicles(d)4.05.8(a)JPMorgan Chase was committed to provide liquidity to these VIEs of up to $5.2 billion and
$8.0 billion at December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively,of which $3.8 billion at

December 31,2004,and $6.3 billion at December 31,2003,was in the form of asset pur-

chase agreements.The FirmÕs maximum exposure to loss to these vehicles at December 31,

2004 and 2003,was $3.2 billion and $5.5 billion,respectively,which reflects the netting of

collateral and other program limits.
(b)The fair value of the FirmÕs derivative contracts with credit-linked note vehicles was not
material at December 31,2004.Assets of $2.3 billion and $2.1 billion reported in the table

above were recorded on the FirmÕs Consolidated balance sheets at December 31,2004 and

2003,respectively,due to contractual relationships held by the Firm that relate to collateral

held by the VIE.
(c)Total amounts consolidated due to the Firm owning residual interests were $2.6 billion at
December 31,2004 and $2.5 billion at December 31,2003,and are reported in the table.

Total liquidity commitments were $3.1 billion and $1.8 billion at December 31,2004 and

2003,respectively.The FirmÕs maximum credit exposure to all municipal bond vehicles was

$5.7 billion and $4.3 billion at December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively.
(d)The FirmÕs net exposure arising from these intermediations is not significant.

(e)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Finally,the Firm may enter into transactions with VIEs structured by other par-
ties.These transactions can include,for example,acting as a derivative coun-

terparty,liquidity provider,investor,underwriter,placement agent,trustee or

custodian.These transactions are conducted at armÕs length,and individual

credit decisions are based upon the analysis of the specific VIE,taking into

consideration the quality of the underlying assets.JPMorgan Chase records

and reports these positions similarly to any other third-party transaction.

These activities do not cause JPMorgan Chase to absorb a majority of the

expected losses of the VIEs or to receive a majority of the residual returns of

the VIE,and they are not considered significant for disclosure purposes.
Consolidated VIE assets

The following table summarizes the FirmÕs total consolidated VIE assets,by

classification on the Consolidated balance sheets,as of December 31,2004

and 2003:December 31,(in billions)
20042003(c)Consolidated VIE assets
(a)Investment securities$10.6
$3.8
Trading assets
(b)4.72.7Loans 3.41.1Interests in purchased receivables
31.64.7Other assets0.40.1Total consolidated assets 
$50.7
$12.4
(a) The Firm also holds $3.4 billion and $3.0 billion of assets,at December 31,2004 and
December 31,2003,respectively,primarily as a sellerÕs interest,in certain consumer securiti-

zations in a segregated entity,as part of a two-step securitization transaction.This interest

is included in the securitization activities disclosed in Note 13 on pages 103Ð106 of this
Annual Report.(b) Includes the fair value of securities and derivatives.

(c) Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Interests in purchased receivables include interests in receivables purchased
by Firm-administered conduits,which have been consolidated in accordance

with FIN 46R.Interests in purchased receivables are carried at cost and are

reviewed to determine whether an other-than-temporary impairment exists.

Based on the current level of credit protection specified in each transaction,

primarily through overcollateralization,the Firm determined that no other-

than-temporary impairment existed at December 31,2004.
The interest-bearing beneficial interest liabilities issued by consolidated VIEs
are classified in the line item titled ÒBeneficial interests issued by consolidated

variable interest entitiesÓon the Consolidated balance sheets.The holders of

these beneficial interests do not have recourse to the general credit of

JPMorgan Chase.See Note 17 on page 112 of this Annual Report for the

maturity profile of FIN 46 long-term beneficial interests.
FIN 46 transition
Effective February 1,2003,JPMorgan Chase implemented FIN 46 for VIEs 

created or modified after January 31,2003,in which the Firm has an interest.

Effective July 1,2003,the Firm implemented FIN 46 for all VIEs originated

prior to February 1,2003,excluding certain investments made by its private

equity business,as discussed above.The effect of adoption was an incremental

increase in the FirmÕs assets and liabilities of approximately $17 billion at 

July 1,2003.As a result of its adoption of FIN 46,the Firm also deconsolidated

certain vehicles,primarily the wholly-owned Delaware statutory business

trusts further discussed in Note 17 on pages 112Ð113 of this Annual Report.
Upon adoption of FIN 46,the assets,liabilities and noncontrolling interests of
VIEs were generally measured at the amounts at which such interests would

have been carried had FIN 46 been effective when the Firm first met the con-
ditions to be considered the primary beneficiary.The difference between the

net amount added to the balance sheet and the amount of any previously
recognized interest in the newly consolidated entity was recognized as a

cumulative effect of an accounting change at July 1,2003,which resulted in

a $2 million (after-tax) reduction to the FirmÕs consolidated earnings.The Firm

also recorded a $34 million (after-tax) reduction in Other comprehensive

income,related to AFS securities and derivative cash flow hedges;these were

related to entities measured at the amount at which such interests would
have been carried had FIN 46 been effective when the Firm first met the con-
ditions of being the primary beneficiary.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
109FIN 46R transition
In December 2003,the FASB issued a revision to FIN 46 (ÒFIN 46RÓ) to

address various technical corrections and implementation issues that had

arisen since the issuance of FIN 46.Effective March 31,2004,JPMorgan

Chase implemented FIN 46R for all VIEs,excluding certain investments made

by its private equity business,as previously discussed.Implementation of FIN

46R did not have a significant effect on the FirmÕs Consolidated financial

statements.
The application of FIN 46R involved significant judgments and interpretations
by management.The Firm is aware of differing interpretations being devel-

oped among accounting professionals and the EITF with regard to analyzing
derivatives under FIN 46R.ManagementÕs current interpretation is that deriv-

atives should be evaluated by focusing on an economic analysis of the rights

and obligations of a VIEÕs assets,liabilities,equity and other contracts,while

considering the entityÕs activities and design;the terms of the derivative con-

tract and the role it has with the entity;and whether the derivative contract

creates and/or absorbs variability of the VIE.The Firm will continue to monitor

developing interpretations.
Note 15ÐGoodwill and other intangible assets
Effective January 1,2002,the Firm adopted SFAS 142,reclassifying certain

intangible assets from Goodwill to Other intangible assets.There was no

impairment of goodwill upon adoption of SFAS 142.
Goodwill is not amortized but instead tested for impairment at the reporting-unit segment (which is generally one level below the six major reportable 

business segments as described in Note 31 on pages 126Ð127 of this Annual

Report;plus Private Equity,which is included in Corporate).Goodwill is tested

annually (during the fourth quarter) or more often if events or circumstances,

such as adverse changes in the business climate,indicate there may be impair-

ment.Intangible assets determined to have indefinite lives are not amortized

but instead are tested for impairment at least annually,or more frequently if

events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired.
The impairment test compares the fair value of the indefinite lived intangible

asset to its carrying amount.Other acquired intangible assets determined 

to have finite lives,such as core deposits and credit card relationships,are

amortized over their estimated useful lives in a manner that best reflects the
economic benefits of the intangible asset.In addition,impairment testing is

performed periodically on these amortizing intangible assets.
Goodwill and Other intangible assets consist of the following:December 31,(in millions)
20042003(a)Goodwill$43,203
$8,511
Mortgage servicing rights
5,0804,781Purchased credit card relationships3,8781,014All other intangibles:Other credit cardÐrelated intangibles$272
$ÑCore deposit intangibles3,3288All other intangibles2,126677Total other intangible assets
$5,726
$685
(a)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
GoodwillAs of December 31,2004,goodwill increased by $34.7 billion compared with

December 31,2003,principally in connection with the Merger,but also due

to the acquisitions of EFS and a majority stake in Highbridge.Goodwill was
not impaired at December 31,2004 or 2003,nor was any goodwill written

off during the years ended December 31,2004,2003 or 2002.
Under SFAS 142,goodwill must be allocated to reporting units and tested for
impairment.Goodwill attributed to the business segments was as follows:
Goodwill resultingDec.31,
Dec.31,from the Merger,
(in millions)20042003(a)July 1,2004
Investment Bank$3,309
$2,084
$1,233
Retail Financial Services15,02244614,559Card Services12,781Ñ12,765Commercial Banking2,650612,592Treasury & Securities Services
2,0441,390461Asset & Wealth Management
7,0204,1532,536Corporate (Private Equity)
377377ÑTotal goodwill
$43,203
$8,511
$34,146
(a)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Mortgage servicing rights
JPMorgan Chase recognizes as intangible assets mortgage servicing rights,

which represent the right to perform specified residential mortgage servicing
activities for others.MSRs are either purchased from third parties or retained

upon sale or securitization of mortgage loans.Servicing activities include col-

lecting principal,interest,and escrow payments from borrowers;making tax

and insurance payments on behalf of the borrowers;monitoring delinquencies

and executing foreclosure proceedings;and accounting for and remitting prin-

cipal and interest payments to the investors of the mortgage-backed securities.
The amount capitalized as MSRs represents the amount paid to third parties
to acquire MSRs or is based on fair value,if retained upon the sale or securiti-

zation of mortgage loans.The Firm estimates the fair value of MSRs using a

discounted future cash flow model.The model considers portfolio characteris-

tics,contractually specified servicing fees,prepayment assumptions,delin-

quency rates,late charges,other ancillary revenues,costs to service and other

economic factors.The Firm compares its fair value estimates and assumptions

to observable market data where available and to recent market activity and

actual portfolio experience.Management believes that the assumptions used

to estimate fair values are supportable and reasonable.
The Firm accounts for its MSRs at the lower of cost or market,in accordance
with SFAS 140.MSRs are amortized as a reduction of the actual servicing

income received in proportion to,and over the period of the estimated future

net servicing income stream of,the underlying mortgage loans.For purposes

of evaluating and measuring impairment of MSRs,the Firm stratifies its port-

folio on the basis of the predominant risk characteristics,which are loan type

and interest rate.Any indicated impairment is recognized as a reduction in

revenue through a valuation allowance,to the extent that the carrying value

of an individual stratum exceeds its estimated fair value.
The Firm evaluates other-than-temporary impairment by reviewing changes in
mortgage and other market interest rates over historical periods and then

determines an interest rate scenario to estimate the amounts of the MSRsÕ

gross carrying value and the related valuation allowance that could be

expected to be recovered in the foreseeable future.Any gross carrying value

and related valuation allowance amount that are not expected to be recov-

ered in the foreseeable future,based upon the interest rate scenario,are con-

sidered to be other-than-temporary.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
110JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
The carrying value of MSRs is sensitive to changes in interest rates,including
their effect on prepayment speeds.JPMorgan Chase uses a combination of

derivatives,AFS securities and trading instruments to manage changes in the

fair value of MSRs.The intent is to offset any changes in the fair value of

MSRs with changes in the fair value of the related risk management instru-

ment.MSRs decrease in value when interest rates decline.Conversely,securi-

ties (such as mortgage-backed securities),principal-only certificates and deriv-

atives (when the Firm receives fixed-rate interest payments) decrease in value

when interest rates increase.The Firm offsets the interest rate risk of its MSRs

by designating certain derivatives (e.g.,a combination of swaps,swaptions

and floors that produces an interest rate profile opposite to the designated

risk of the hedged MSRs) as fair value hedges of specified MSRs under SFAS

133.SFAS 133 hedge accounting allows the carrying value of the hedged

MSRs to be adjusted through earnings in the same period that the change in
value of the hedging derivatives is recognized through earnings.Both of these

valuation adjustments are recorded in Mortgage fees and related income.
When applying SFAS 133,the loans underlying the MSRs being hedged are
stratified into specific SFAS 133 asset groupings that possess similar interest

rate and prepayment risk exposures.The documented hedge period for the

Firm is daily.Daily adjustments are performed to incorporate new or terminated

derivative contracts and to modify the amount of the corresponding similar

asset grouping that is being hedged.The Firm has designated changes in the

benchmark interest rate (LIBOR) as the hedged risk.In designating the bench-

mark interest rate,the Firm considers the impact that the change in the bench-

mark rate has on the prepayment speed estimates in determining the fair

value of the MSRs.The Firm performs both prospective and retrospective

hedge effectiveness evaluations,using a regression analysis,to determine

whether the hedge relationship is expected to be highly effective.Hedge effec-

tiveness is assessed by comparing the change in value of the MSRs,as a result

of changes in benchmark interest rates,to the change in the value of the des-

ignated derivatives.For a further discussion on derivative instruments and

hedging activities,see Note 26 on pages 118Ð119 of this Annual Report.
Securities (both AFS and Trading) are also used to manage the risk exposure of
MSRs.Because these securities do not qualify as hedges under SFAS 133,they

are accounted for under SFAS 115,with realized gains and losses and unreal-

ized gains and losses on trading securities recognized in earnings in

Securities/private equity gains,interest income on the AFS securities is recog-

nized in earnings in Net interest income,and unrealized gains and losses on

AFS securities are reported in Other comprehensive income.Finally,certain non-

hedge derivatives,which have not been designated by management in SFAS

133 hedge relationships,are used to manage the economic risk exposure of

MSRs and are recorded in Mortgage fees and related income.
The following table summarizes MSR activity and related amortization for the
dates indicated.It also includes the key assumptions and the sensitivity of the

fair value of MSRs at December 31,2004,to immediate 10% and 20%

adverse changes in each of those assumptions.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200420032002
Balance at January 1
$6,159
$4,864$7,749
Additions1,7573,2012,071
Bank One merger90NANA
Sales(3)ÑÑOther-than-temporary impairment
(149)(283)Ñ
Amortization(1,297)(1,397)(1,367)
SFAS 133 hedge valuation adjustments
(446)(226)(3,589)
Balance at December 316,1116,1594,864
Less:valuation allowance
1,0311,3781,634
Balance at December 31,after 
valuation allowance
$5,080
$4,781$3,230
Estimated fair value at December 31
$5,124
$4,781$3,230
Weighted-average prepayment 
speed assumption (CPR)17.29% 17.67% 28.50%Weighted-average discount rate
7.93%7.31%7.70%
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
CPR:Constant prepayment rate
2004Weighted-average prepayment speed assumption (CPR)
17.29%Impact on fair value with 10% adverse change
$(295)
Impact on fair value with 20% adverse change
(558)Weighted-average discount rate 
7.93%Impact on fair value with 10% adverse change
$(128)
Impact on fair value with 20% adverse change
(249)CPR:Constant prepayment rate.
The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical and should be
used with caution.As the figures indicate,changes in fair value based on a

10% and 20% variation in assumptions generally cannot be easily extrapolated

because the relationship of the change in the assumptions to the change in
fair value may not be linear.Also,in this table,the effect that a change in a

particular assumption may have on the fair value is calculated without chang-

ing any other assumption.In reality,changes in one factor may result in

changes in another,which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities.
The valuation allowance represents the extent to which the carrying value of
MSRs exceeds its estimated fair value for its applicable SFAS 140 strata.

Changes in the valuation allowance are the result of the recognition of

impairment or the recovery of previously recognized impairment charges,due

to changes in market conditions during the period.The changes in the valua-

tion allowance for MSRs were as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200420032002
Balance at January 1
$1,378
$1,634$1,170
Other-than-temporary impairment 
(149)(283)Ñ
SFAS 140 impairment (recovery) adjustment
(198)27464
Balance at December 31$1,031
$1,378$1,634
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results,while 2003 results include heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
111During 2004 and 2003,the Firm recorded an other-than-temporary impair-
mentof its MSRs of $149 million and $283 million,respectively,which 

permanently reduced the gross carrying value of the MSRs and the related

valuation allowance.The permanent reduction precludes subsequent reversals.

This write-down had no impact on the results of operations or financial con-

dition of the Firm.All other intangible assetsFor 2004,All other intangible assets increased by approximately $7.9 billion,

principally as a result of the Merger.This increase is net of amortization and

includes $510 million of indefinite lived intangibles related to asset manage-
ment advisory contracts.Indefinite-lived intangibles are not amortized,but

instead are tested for impairment at least annually.The remainder of the

FirmÕs other acquired intangible assets are subject to amortization.
Note 16ÐPremises and equipment
Premises and equipment,including leasehold improvements,are carried at

cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization.JPMorgan Chase com-

putes depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful

life of an asset.For leasehold improvements,the Firm uses the straight-line

method computed over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased facility
or 10 years.
JPMorgan Chase capitalizes certain costs associated with the acquisition or
development of internal-use software under SOP 98-1.Once the software is

ready for its intended use,these costs are amortized on a straight-line basis

over the softwareÕs expected useful life.
The components of credit card relationships,core deposits and other intangible assets were as follows:
20042003(b)NetNet
GrossAccumulatedcarryingGrossAccumulatedcarrying
December 31,(in millions)amountamortizationvalueamountamortizationvalue
Purchased credit card relationships$5,225$1,347$3,878
$1,885$871$1,014
Other credit cardÐrelated intangibles
29523272
ÑÑÑ
Core deposit intangibles3,7974693,328
1471398
All other intangibles2,528402
(a)2,126946269677
Amortization expense(in millions)(c)200420032002
Purchased credit card relationships$476
$256$280
Other credit cardÐrelated intangibles
23ÑÑCore deposit intangibles330610
All other intangibles1173233
Total amortization expense
$946
$294$323
(a)Includes $16 million of amortization expense related to servicing assets on securitized automobile loans,which is recorded i
n Asset management,administration and commissions,for 2004.
(b)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.

(c)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.All other p
eriods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Future amortization expense
The following table presents estimated amortization expenses related to credit card relationships,core deposits and All other i
ntangible assets at December 31,2004:
Other credit 
(in millions)Purchased creditcard-relatedCore depositAll other
Year ended December 31,card relationshipsintangiblesintangiblesintangible assetsTotal
2005$701$45$622$165$1,533
2006674405311531,398

2007606354031361,180

200850233294128957
200936029239124752
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
112JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Note 17ÐLong-term debt
JPMorgan Chase issues long-term debt denominated in various currencies,although predominantly U.S.dollars,with both fixed and v
ariable interest rates.
The following table is a summary of long-term debt (net of unamortized original issue debt discount and SFAS 133 valuation adju
stments):By remaining contractual maturity at December 31,2004 UnderAfter
20042003(in millions)1 year1Ð5 years5 years
totaltotal(g)Parent company
Senior debt:(a)Fixed rate$2,864$20,029$2,670
$25,563
$15,044
Variable rate6,2218,295612
15,12810,696Interest rates
(b)1.22Ð7.63%0.20Ð6.88%1.12Ð5.00%
0.20Ð7.63%0.96Ð7.50%
Subordinated debt:Fixed rate$1,419$7,536$13,100
$22,055
$14,382
Variable rate309462,331
2,686513Interest rates
(b)4.78Ð7.13%5.75Ð9.88%1.92Ð10.00%
1.92Ð10.00%4.78Ð8.25%Subtotal$10,813$35,906$18,713
$65,432
$40,635
SubsidiariesSenior debt:(a)Fixed rate$283$4,133$1,833
$6,249
$  2,829
Variable rate4,23413,5474,316
22,0973,842Interest rates
(b)2.13Ð10.45%1.71Ð11.74%2.19Ð13.00%
1.71Ð13.00%
1.13Ð13.00%
Subordinated debt:Fixed rate$503$831$310
$1,644
$    708
Variable rateÑÑÑ
ÑÑInterest rates
(b)6.00Ð7.00%6.13Ð6.70%8.25%
6.00Ð8.25%
6.13Ð7.00%
Subtotal$5,020$18,511$6,459
$29,990
$ 7,379Total long-term debt$15,833$54,417$25,172
$95,422
(d)(e)(f)$48,014
FIN 46R long-term beneficial interests:
(c)Fixed rate$Ñ$341$434
$775
$     353
Variable rate3,0725701,976
5,6182,076Interest rates
(b)2.02Ð2.84%0.54Ð7.35%2.25Ð12.79%
0.54Ð12.79%
1.12Ð10.00%
Total FIN 46R long-term beneficial interests$3,072$911$2,410
$6,393
$2,429
(a)Included are various equity-linked or other indexed instruments.Embedded derivatives separated from hybrid securities in acc
ordance with SFAS 133 are reported at fair value and shown net with
the host contract on the balance sheet.Changes in fair value of separated derivatives are recorded in Trading revenue.
(b)The interest rates shown are the range of contractual rates in effect at year-end,including non-U.S.dollar fixed and variabl
e-rate issuances,which excludes the effects of related derivative instru-
ments.The use of these derivative instruments modifies the FirmÕs exposure to the contractual interest rates disclosed in the t
able above.Including the effects of derivatives,the range of modified
rates in effect at December 31,2004,for total long-term debt was 0.14% to 11.74%,versus the contractual range of 0.20% to 13.00
% presented in the table above.
(c)Included on the Consolidated balance sheets in Beneficial interests issued by consolidated variable interest entities.

(d)At December 31,2004,long-term debt aggregating $23.3 billion was redeemable at the option of JPMorgan Chase,in whole or in p
art,prior to maturity,based on the terms specified in the 
respective notes.
(e)The aggregate principal amount of debt that matures in each of the five years subsequent to 2004 is $15.8 billion in 2005,$1
5.4 billion in 2006,$15.5 billion in 2007,$11.6 billion in 2008 and
$11.9 billion in 2009.(f) Includes $1.5 billion of outstanding zero-coupon notes at December 31,2004.The aggregate principal amount of these notes at
 their respective maturities is $4.6 billion.
(g)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
The weighted-average contractual interest rate for total long-term debt was
4.50% and 4.71% as of December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively.In order

to modify exposure to interest rate and currency exchange rate movements,

JPMorgan Chase utilizes derivative instruments,primarily interest rate and

cross-currency interest rate swaps,in conjunction with some of its debt issues.

The use of these instruments modifies the FirmÕs interest expense on the

associated debt.The modified weighted-average interest rate for total long-

term debt,including the effects of related derivative instruments,was 3.97%

and 2.79% as of December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively.
JPMorgan Chase has guaranteed certain debt of its subsidiaries,including
both long-term debt and structured notes sold as part of the FirmÕs trading

activities.These guarantees rank on a parity with all of the FirmÕs other 

unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness.Guaranteed liabilities totaled

$320 million and $509 million at December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively.
Junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held by trusts

that issued guaranteed capital debt securities

At December 31,2004,the Firm had 22 wholly-owned Delaware statutory

business trusts (Òissuer trustsÓ) that issued guaranteed preferred beneficial

interests in the FirmÕs junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures.
As a result of the adoption of FIN 46,JPMorgan Chase deconsolidated all the
issuer trusts.Accordingly,the junior subordinated deferrable interest deben-

tures issued by the Firm to the issuer trusts,totaling $10.3 billion and $6.8

billion at December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively,were reflected in the

FirmÕs Consolidated balance sheets in the Liabilities section under the caption

ÒJunior subordinated deferrable interest debentures held by trusts that issued

guaranteed capital debt securities.ÓJPMorgan Chase records interest expens-

es on the corresponding junior subordinated debentures in its Consolidated
statements of income.The Firm also records the common capital securities

issued by the issuer trusts in Other assets in its Consolidated balance sheets
at December 31,2004 and 2003.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
113The debentures issued to the issuer trusts by the Firm,less the capital securi-
ties of the issuer trusts,qualify as Tier 1 capital.The following is a summary of

the outstanding capital securities,net of discount,issued by each trust and
the junior subordinated deferrable interest debenture issued by JPMorgan

Chase to each trust as of December 31,2004:
AmountPrincipalStated maturity
of capitalamount ofof capital
securitiesdebenture,securitiesEarliestInterest rate ofInterest
issuedheldIssueandredemptioncapital securitiespayment/
December 31,2004 (in millions)by trust
(a)by trust(b)datedebenturesdateand debenturesdistribution dates
Bank One Capital II$280$3122000203020058.50%Quarterly
Bank One Capital III47462120002030Any time8.75%Semiannually

Bank One Capital IV 158163200020302005LIBOR + 1.50%Quarterly

Bank One Capital V3003362001203120068.00%Quarterly

Bank One Capital VI5255652001203120067.20%Quarterly

Chase Capital I6006191996202620067.67%Semiannually

Chase Capital II495510199720272007LIBOR + 0.50%Quarterly

Chase Capital III296306199720272007LIBOR + 0.55%Quarterly

Chase Capital VI24825619982028Any timeLIBOR + 0.625%Quarterly

Chase Capital VIII2502582000203020058.25%Quarterly

First Chicago NBD Capital I248256199720272007LIBOR + 0.55%Quarterly

First Chicago NBD Institutional Capital A4995531996202620067.95%Semiannually

First Chicago NBD Institutional Capital B2502741996202620067.75%Semiannually

First USA Capital Trust I331996202720079.33%Semiannually

JPM Capital Trust I7507731996202720077.54%Semiannually

JPM Capital Trust II4004121997202720077.95%Semiannually

J.P.Morgan Chase Capital IX5005152001203120067.50%Quarterly

J.P.Morgan Chase Capital X1,0001,0462002203220077.00%Quarterly

J.P.Morgan Chase Capital XI1,0751,0222003203320085.88%Quarterly

J.P.Morgan Chase Capital XII4004032003203320086.25%
QuarterlyJ.P.Morgan Chase Capital XIII472486200420342014LIBOR + 0.95%Quarterly
JPMorgan Chase Capital XIV6006072004203420096.20%Quarterly
Total$9,823$10,296
(a)Represents the amount of capital securities issued to the public by each trust,net of unamortized discount.
(b)Represents the principal amount of JPMorgan Chase debentures held as assets by each trust,net of unamortized discount amount
s.The principal amount of debentures held by the trusts includes
the impact of hedging and purchase accounting fair value adjustments that are recorded on the FirmÕs financial statements.
Note 18ÐPreferred stock
JPMorgan Chase is authorized to issue 200 million shares of preferred stock,in one or more series,with a par value of $1 per share.Outstanding preferred

stock at December 31,2004 and 2003,was 4 million and 18 million shares,

respectively.On December 31,2004,JPMorgan Chase redeemed a total of 14

million shares of its Series A,L and N variable cumulative preferred stocks.
The following is a summary of JPMorgan ChaseÕs preferred stock outstanding:
Stated value and
Rate in effect at(in millions,exceptredemption
SharesOutstanding at December 31,
EarliestDecember 31,
per share amounts and rates)price per share
(a)2004200320042003redemption date
2004Fixed/adjustable rate,noncumulative$50.00
4.004.00$200
$200See Note
(c)5.46%(d)6.63% Series H cumulative(b)500.000.280.281391393/31/2006
6.63Adjustable rate,Series A cumulative100.00
Ñ2.42Ñ242Ñ
ÑAdjustable rate,Series L cumulative100.00
Ñ2.00Ñ200Ñ
ÑAdjustable rate,Series N cumulative25.00
Ñ9.10Ñ228Ñ
ÑTotal preferred stock
4.2817.80$339
$1,009
(a)Redemption price includes amount shown in the table plus any accrued but unpaid dividends.
(b)Represented by depositary shares.

(c)The shares are redeemable at any time with not less than 30 nor more than 60 daysÕ notice.

(d)The fixed/adjustable rate preferred stock remained fixed at 4.96% through June 30,2003;thereafter,the minimum and maximum ra
tes are 5.46% and 11.46%,respectively.
Dividends on shares of each outstanding series of preferred stock are payable
quarterly.All of the preferred stock outstanding takes precedence over

JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock for the payment of dividends and the distri-

bution of assets in the event of a liquidation or dissolution of the Firm.Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
114JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Note 19ÐCommon stock
At December 31,2004,JPMorgan Chase was authorized to issue 9.0 billion
shares of common stock,with a $1 par value per share.In connection with

the Merger,the shareholders approved an increase in the amount of author-

ized shares of 4.5 billion from the 4.5 billion that had been authorized as of
December 31,2003.Common shares issued (newly issued or distributed from

treasury) by JPMorgan Chase during 2004,2003 and 2002 were as follows:
December 31,(in millions)
20042003(a)2002(a)Issued Ð balance at January 1
2,044.42,023.61,996.9
Newly issued:Employee benefits and compensation plans69.020.925.9
Employee stock purchase plans3.10.70.8
Purchase accounting acquisitions and other1,469.4ÑÑTotal newly issued
1,541.521.626.7
Cancelled shares(1.1)(0.8)Ñ
Total issued Ð balance at December 31
3,584.82,044.42,023.6
Treasury Ð balance at January 1
(1.8)(24.9)(23.5)
Purchase of treasury stock(19.3)ÑÑShare repurchases related to employeestock-based awards
(b)(7.5)(3.0)(3.9)
Issued from treasury:Employee benefits and compensation plansÑ25.82.1
Employee stock purchase plansÑ0.30.4
Total issued from treasury
Ñ26.12.5
Total treasury Ð balance at December 31
(28.6)(1.8)(24.9)
Outstanding 3,556.22,042.61,998.7
(a)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Participants in the 1996 Long-Term Incentive Plan and Stock Option Plan have shares with-
held to cover income taxes.The shares withheld amounted to 5.7 million,2.3 million and

2.9 million for 2004,2003 and 2002,respectively.
During 2004,the Firm repurchased 19.3 million shares of common stock
under a stock repurchase program which was approved by the Board of

Directors on July 20,2004.The Firm did not repurchase shares of its common

stock during 2003 or 2002 under the prior stock repurchase program.
As of December 31,2004,approximately 531 million unissued shares of com-
mon stock were reserved for issuance under various employee incentive,

option and stock-purchase plans.
Note 20ÐEarnings per share
SFAS 128 requires the presentation of basic and diluted earnings per share

(ÒEPSÓ) in the income statement.Basic EPS is computed by dividing net

income applicable to common stock by the weighted-average number of

common shares outstanding for the period.Diluted EPS is computed using

the same method as basic EPS but,in the denominator,the number of com-

mon shares reflect,in addition to outstanding shares,the potential dilution

that could occur if convertible securities or other contracts to issue common

stock were converted or exercised into common stock.Net income available

for common stock is the same for basic EPS and diluted EPS,as JPMorgan

Chase had no convertible securities,and therefore,no adjustments to net

income available for common stock were necessary.The following table pres-

ents the calculation of basic and diluted EPS for 2004,2003 and 2002:
Year ended December 31,
(in millions,except per share amounts)
(a)200420032002
Basic earnings per share
Net income$4,466
$6,719$1,663
Less:preferred stock dividends
525151
Net income applicable to 
common stock$4,414
$6,668$1,612
Weighted-average basic 
shares outstanding2,779.92,008.61,984.3
Net income per share$1.59
$3.32$0.81
Diluted earnings per share
Net income applicable to 
common stock$4,414
$6,668$1,612
Weighted-average basic 
shares outstanding2,779.92,008.61,984.3
Add:Broad-based options
5.44.12.8
Key employee options
65.342.422.0
Weighted-average diluted 
shares outstanding2,850.62,055.12,009.1
Net income per share(b)$1.55
$3.24$0.80
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b) Options issued under employee benefit plans to purchase 300 million,335 million and 362
million shares of common stock were outstanding for the years ended 2004,2003 and

2002,respectively,but were not included in the computation of diluted EPS because the

optionsÕ exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the common shares.
Note 21ÐAccumulated other 
comprehensive income (loss)
Accumulated other comprehensive income includes the after-tax change in
unrealized gains and losses on AFS securities,cash flow hedging activities

and foreign currency translation adjustments (including the impact of related

derivatives).
AccumulatedYear ended UnrealizedCashother

December 31,(a)gains (losses)Translationflowcomprehensive
(in millions)on AFS securities
(b)adjustmentshedgesincome (loss)
Balance at December 31,2001$
(135)$(2)$(305)$(442)
Net change866(4)8071,669
Balance at December 31,2002731(6)502
1,227Net change(712)Ñ (545)(1,257)
Balance at December 31,200319(6)
(43)(30)
Net change(80)(c)(2)(d)(96)(178)
Balance at December 31,2004
$(61)$(8)
(e)$(139)$(208)
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Represents the after-tax difference between the fair value and amortized cost of the AFS
securities portfolio and retained interests in securitizations recorded in Other assets.
(c) The net change during 2004 is primarily due to increasing rates and recognition of 
unrealized gains through securities sales.
(d) Includes $280 million of after-tax gains (losses) on foreign currency translation from opera-
tions for which the functional currency is other than the U.S.dollar,offset by $(282) million

of after-tax gains (losses) on hedges.
(e)Includes after-tax gains and losses on foreign currency translation,including related hedge
results from operations,for which the functional currency is other than the U.S.dollar.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
115The following table presents the after-tax changes in net unrealized holdings
gains (losses) and the reclassification adjustments in unrealized gains and
losses on AFS securities and cash flow hedges.Reclassification adjustments

include amounts recognized in net income during the current year that had
been previously recorded in Other comprehensive income.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200420032002
Unrealized gains (losses) on AFS securities:
Net unrealized holdings gains (losses)arising during the period,net of taxes
(b)$41
$149$1,090
Reclassification adjustment for gainsincluded in income,net of taxes
(c)(121)(861)(224)
Net change$(80)
$(712)$866
Cash flow hedges:Net unrealized holdings gains (losses)arising during the period,net of taxes
(d)$34
$86$663
Reclassification adjustment for (gains) lossesincluded in income,net of taxes
(e)(130)(631)144
Net change$(96)
$(545)$807
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Net of tax expense of 
$27 million for 2004,$92 million for 2003 and $758 million for 2002.
(c)Net of tax expense of 
$79 million for 2004,$528 million for 2003 and $156 million for 2002.
(d)Net of tax expense of 
$23 million for 2004,$60 million for 2003 and $461 million for 2002.(e)Net of tax expense of 
$86 million for 2004 and $438 million for 2003,and net of tax benefit
of $100 million for 2002.Note 22 Ð Income taxesJPMorgan Chase and its eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S.federal
income tax return.JPMorgan Chase uses the asset-and-liability method required

by SFAS 109 to provide income taxes on all transactions recorded in the

Consolidated financial statements.This requires that income taxes reflect the

expected future tax consequences of temporary differences between the carrying

amounts of assets or liabilities for book and tax purposes.Accordingly,a deferred

tax liability or asset for each temporary difference is determined based on the tax

rates that the Firm expects to be in effect when the underlying items of income

and expense are realized.JPMorgan ChaseÕs expense for income taxes includes

the current and deferred portions of that expense.A valuation allowance is estab-

lished to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount the Firm expects to realize.
Due to the inherent complexities arising from the nature of the FirmÕs businesses,
and from conducting business and being taxed in a substantial number of juris-
dictions,significant judgments and estimates are required to be made.Thus,the

FirmÕs final tax-related assets and liabilities may ultimately be different.
Deferred income tax expense (benefit) results from differences between assets

and liabilities measured for financial reporting and for income-tax return pur-
poses.The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are

reflected in the following table:December 31,(in millions)
20042003(a)Deferred tax assets
Allowance for other than loan losses
$3,711
$1,152
Allowance for loan losses
2,7391,410Employee benefits2,6772,245Non-U.S.operations
743741Gross deferred tax assets$9,870
$5,548
Deferred tax liabilities
Leasing transactions
$4,266
$3,703
Depreciation and amortization3,5581,037Fee income
1,162387Non-U.S.operations
1,144687Fair value adjustments
186538Other,net
34868Gross deferred tax liabilities$10,664
$6,420
Valuation allowance
$150
$200
Net deferred tax liability$(944)
$(1,072)
(a)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
A valuation allowance has been recorded in accordance with SFAS 109,pri-
marily relating to deferred tax assets associated with non-U.S.operations.
The components of income tax expense included in the Consolidated state-
ments of income were as follows:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200420032002
Current income tax expense (benefit) U.S.federal
$1,695
$965$(1,334)
Non-U.S.
679741461
U.S.state and local
18117593
Total current expense (benefit)
2,5551,881(780)
Deferred income tax (benefit) expense U.S.federal
(382)1,3411,630
Non-U.S.
(322)14(352)
U.S.state and local
(123)73358
Total deferred (benefit) expense  
(827)1,4281,636
Total income tax expense
$1,728
$3,309$856
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
The preceding table does not reflect the tax effects of unrealized gains and
losses on AFS securities,SFAS 133 hedge transactions and certain tax benefits

associated with the FirmÕs employee stock plans.The tax effect of these items

is recorded directly in StockholdersÕ equity.StockholdersÕ equity increased by

$190 million and $898 million in 2004 and 2003,respectively,and decreased

by $1.1 billion in 2002 as a result of these tax effects.
U.S.federal income taxes have not been provided on the undistributed earn-
ings of certain non-U.S.subsidiaries,to the extent that such earnings have

been reinvested abroad for an indefinite period of time.For 2004,such earn-

ings approximated $369 million on a pre-tax basis.At December 31,2004,

the cumulative amount of undistributed earnings in these subsidiaries approx-

imated $2.6 billion.It is not practicable at this time to determine the income

tax liability that would result upon repatriation of these earnings.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
116JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
On October 22,2004,the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the ÒActÓ)
was signed into law.The Act creates a temporary incentive for U.S.companies

to repatriate accumulated foreign earnings at a substantially reduced U.S.

effective tax rate by providing a dividends received deduction on the repatria-

tion of certain foreign earnings to the U.S.taxpayer (the Òrepatriation provi-

sionÓ).The new deduction is subject to a number of limitations and require-

ments and is effective for either the 2004 or 2005 tax years for calendar year
taxpayers.The range of possible amounts that may be considered for repatria-

tion under this provision is between zero and $1.9 billion.The Firm is current-

ly assessing the impact of the repatriation provision and,at this time,cannot

reasonably estimate the related range of income tax effects of such repatria-

tion provision.Accordingly,the Firm has not reflected the tax effect of the

repatriation provision in income tax expense or income tax liabilities.
The tax expense applicable to securities gains and losses for the years 2004,
2003 and 2002 was $126 million,$477 million and $531 million,respectively.
A reconciliation of the applicable statutory U.S.income tax rate to the effective
tax rate for the past three years is shown in the following table:
Year ended December 31,
(a)200420032002
Statutory U.S.federal tax rate
35.0%35.0%35.0%
Increase (decrease) in tax rate resulting from:

U.S.state and local income taxes,net of
federal income tax benefit
0.6(b)2.111.6
Tax-exempt income
(4.1)(2.4)(6.2)
Non-U.S.subsidiary earnings
(1.3)(0.7)(2.2)
Business tax credits(4.1)(0.9)(3.5)
Other,net
1.8(0.1)(0.7)
Effective tax rate
27.9%33.0%34.0%
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)The decrease in 2004 is attributable to changes in the proportion of income subject to 
different state and local taxes.
The following table presents the U.S.and non-U.S.components of income
before income tax expense:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200420032002
U.S.
$3,817
$7,333$1,834
Non-U.S.
(b)2,3772,695685
Income before income tax expense$6,194
$10,028$2,519
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b) For purposes of this table,non-U.S.income is defined as income generated from operations
located outside the United States.
Note 23ÐRestrictions on cash and 
intercompany funds transfers
The Federal Reserve Board requires depository institutions to maintain cash
reserves with a Federal Reserve Bank.The average amount of reserve balances

deposited by the FirmÕs bank subsidiaries with various Federal Reserve Banks

was approximately $3.8 billion in 2004 and $2.6 billion in 2003.
Restrictions imposed by federal law prohibit JPMorgan Chase and certain
other affiliates from borrowing from banking subsidiaries unless the loans are
secured in specified amounts.Such secured loans to the Firm or to other affil-

iates are generally limited to 10% of the banking subsidiaryÕs total capital,as

determined by the risk-based capital guidelines;the aggregate amount of all

such loans is limited to 20% of the banking subsidiaryÕs total capital.
The principal sources of JPMorgan ChaseÕs income (on a parent company-
only basis) are dividends and interest from JPMorgan Chase Bank and the
other banking and nonbanking subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase.In addition

to dividend restrictions set forth in statutes and regulations,the FRB,the

Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (ÒOCCÓ) and the Federal Deposit

Insurance Corporation (ÒFDICÓ) have authority under the Financial

Institutions Supervisory Act to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends

by the banking organizations they supervise,including JPMorgan Chase and

its subsidiaries that are banks or bank holding companies,if,in the banking

regulatorÕs opinion,payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or

unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization.
At January 1,2005 and 2004,JPMorgan ChaseÕs bank subsidiaries could pay,
in the aggregate,$6.2 billion and $4.4 billion,respectively,in dividends to

their respective bank holding companies without prior approval of their rele-

vant banking regulators.Dividend capacity in 2005 will be supplemented by

the banksÕ earnings during the year.
In compliance with rules and regulations established by U.S.and non-U.S.
regulators,as of December 31,2004 and 2003,cash in the amount of 

$4.3 billion and $3.5 billion,respectively,and securities with a fair value of

$3.6 billion and $3.1 billion,respectively,were segregated in special bank

accounts for the benefit of securities and futures brokerage customers.
Note 24ÐCapital
There are two categories of risk-based capital:Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capi-

tal.Tier 1 capital includes common stockholdersÕ equity,qualifying preferred

stock and minority interest less goodwill and other adjustments.Tier 2 capital

consists of preferred stock not qualifying as Tier 1,subordinated long-term

debt and other instruments qualifying as Tier 2,and the aggregate allowance

for credit losses up to a certain percentage of risk-weighted assets.Total reg-

ulatory capital is subject to deductions for investments in certain subsidiaries.

Under the risk-based capital guidelines of the FRB,JPMorgan Chase is

required to maintain minimum ratios of Tier 1 and total (Tier 1 plus Tier 2)

capital to risk-weighted assets,as well as minimum leverage ratios (which are

defined as Tier 1 capital to average adjusted onÐbalance sheet assets).Failure

to meet these minimum requirements could cause the FRB to take action.

Bank subsidiaries also are subject to these capital requirements by their
respective primary regulators.As of December 31,2004 and 2003,JPMorgan

Chase and its primary banking subsidiaries met all capital requirements to
which each was subject.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
117The following table presents the risk-based capital ratios for JPMorgan Chase and its significant banking subsidiaries at Decem
ber 31,2004 and 2003:
Tier 1TotalRisk-weightedAdjustedTier 1TotalTier 1
(in millions,except ratios)capital capitalassets
(b)average assets
(c)capital ratiocapital ratioleverage ratio
December 31,2004
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(a)$68,621$96,807$791,373$1,102,4568.7%12.2%6.2%
JPMorgan Chase Bank,N.A.
55,48978,478670,295922,8778.311.76.0
Chase Bank USA,N.A.
8,72611,18686,95571,79710.012.912.2
December 31,2003
(d)JPMorgan Chase & Co.
(a)$43,167$59,816$507,456$765,9108.5%11.8%5.6%
JPMorgan Chase Bank34,97245,290434,218628,0768.110.45.6

Chase Manhattan Bank USA,N.A.4,9506,93948,03034,56510.314.414.3
Well-capitalized ratios
(e)6.0%10.0%5.0%
(f)Minimum capital ratios
(e)4.08.03.0
(a) Asset and capital amounts for JPMorgan ChaseÕs banking subsidiaries reflect intercompany transactions,whereas the respectiv
e amounts for JPMorgan Chase reflect the elimination of intercompany transactions.
(b) Includes offÐbalance sheet risk-weighted assets in the amounts of $250.3 billion,$229.6 billion and $15.5 billion,respectiv
ely,at December 31,2004,and $174.2 billion,$152.1 billion 
and $13.3 billion,respectively,at December 31,2003.
(c) Average adjusted assets for purposes of calculating the leverage ratio include total average assets adjusted for unrealized
 gains/losses on securities,less deductions for disallowed goodwill and other
intangible assets,investments in subsidiaries and the total adjusted carrying value of nonfinancial equity investments that are
 subject to deductions from Tier 1 capital.
(d)  Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.

(e) As defined by the regulations issued by the FRB,FDIC and OCC.

(f) Represents requirements for bank subsidiaries pursuant to regulations issued under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporatio
n Improvement Act.There is no Tier 1 leverage component in 
the definition of a well-capitalized bank holding company.
The following table shows the components of the FirmÕs Tier 1 and total capital:
December 31,(in millions)
20042003(a)Tier 1 capitalTotal stockholdersÕ equity
$105,653
$46,154
Effect of net unrealized losses on AFS 
securities and cash flow hedging activities
20024Adjusted stockholdersÕ equity105,85346,178Minority interest
(b)11,0506,882Less:Goodwill
43,2038,511Investments in certain subsidiaries370266Nonqualifying intangible assets4,7091,116Tier 1 capital
$68,621
$43,167
Tier 2 capitalLong-term debt and other instrumentsqualifying as Tier 2
$20,690
$ 12,128Qualifying allowance for credit losses
7,7984,777Less:Investments in certain subsidiaries 
and other302256Tier 2 capital
$28,186
$16,649
Total qualifying capital
$96,807
$59,816
(a)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Primarily includes trust preferred securities of certain business trusts.
Note 25ÐCommitments and contingencies
At December 31,2004,JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries were obligated
under a number of noncancelable operating leases for premises and equipment

used primarily for banking purposes.Certain leases contain rent escalation

clauses for real estate taxes;they may also contain other operating expenses

and renewal-option clauses calling for increased rents.No lease agreement

imposes restrictions on the FirmÕs ability to pay dividends,engage in debt or

equity financing transactions,or enter into further lease agreements.
The following table shows required future minimum rental payments under oper-

ating leases with noncancelable lease terms that expire after December 31,2004:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
2005$1,060
2006979

2007899

2008838

2009776
After5,301
Total minimum payments required9,853
Less:Sublease rentals under noncancelable subleases(689)
Net minimum payment required$9,164
Total rental expense was as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200420032002
Gross rentals$1,187
$1,061$1,012
Sublease rentals(158)(106)(134)
Net rental expense$1,029
$955$878
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
At December 31,2004,assets were pledged to secure public deposits and for
other purposes.The significant components of the assets pledged were as follows:
December 31,(in billions)
20042003(b)Reverse repurchase/securities borrowing agreements$238
$197
Securities4945Loans7548Other(a)9096Total assets pledged
$452
$386
(a) Primarily composed of trading assets.
(b)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
118JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Litigation reserve
During 2004,JPMorgan Chase increased its Litigation reserve by $3.7 billion.

While the outcome of litigation is inherently uncertain,the amount of the

FirmÕs Litigation reserve at December 31,2004,reflected managementÕs

assessment of the appropriate litigation reserve level in light of all informa-
tion known as of that date.Management reviews litigation reserves periodi-

cally,and the reserve may be increased or decreased in the future to reflect

further developments.The Firm believes it has meritorious defenses to claims

asserted against it and intends to continue to defend itself vigorously,litigat-

ing or settling cases,according to managementÕs judgment as to what is in

the best interest of stockholders.
Note 26ÐAccounting for derivative 
instruments and hedging activitiesDerivative instruments enable end users to increase,reduce or alter exposure
to credit or market risks.The value of a derivative is derived from its reference

to an underlying variable or combination of variables such as equity,foreign

exchange,credit,commodity or interest rate prices or indices.JPMorgan Chase

makes markets in derivatives for its customers and also is an end-user of

derivatives in order to manage the FirmÕs exposure to credit and market risks.
SFAS 133,as amended by SFAS 138 and SFAS 149,establishes accounting
and reporting standards for derivative instruments,including those used for

trading and hedging activities,and derivative instruments embedded in other

contracts.All free-standing derivatives,whether designated for hedging rela-

tionships or not,are required to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.

The accounting for changes in value of a derivative depends on whether the

contract is for trading purposes or has been designated and qualifies for

hedge accounting.The majority of the FirmÕs derivatives are entered into for

trading purposes.The Firm also uses derivatives as an end user to hedge 

market exposures,modify the interest rate characteristics of related balance

sheet instruments or meet longer-term investment objectives.Both trading and

end-user derivatives are recorded at fair value in Trading assets and Trading

liabilities as set forth in Note 3 on pages 90Ð91 of this Annual Report.
In order to qualify for hedge accounting,a derivative must be considered highly
effective at reducing the risk associated with the exposure being hedged.Each

derivative must be designated as a hedge,with documentation of the risk

management objective and strategy,including identification of the hedging

instrument,the hedged item and the risk exposure,and how effectiveness is

to be assessed prospectively and retrospectively.The extent to which a hedg-

ing instrument is effective at achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash

flows must be assessed at least quarterly.Any ineffectiveness must be report-

ed in current-period earnings.For certain types of hedge relationships meet-

ing stringent criteria,SFAS 133Õs ÒshortcutÓmethod provides for an assump-

tion of zero ineffectiveness.Under the shortcut method,quarterly effective-

ness assessment is not required,and the entire change in the fair value of the

hedging derivative is considered to be effective at achieving offsetting changes

in fair values or cash flows.Due to the strict criteria of the shortcut method,

the FirmÕs use of this method is primarily limited to hedges of Long-term debt.
For qualifying fair value hedges,all changes in the fair value of the derivative
and in the fair value of the item for the risk being hedged are recognized in

earnings.If the hedge relationship is terminated,then the fair value adjustment

to the hedged item continues to be reported as part of the basis of the item and
is amortized to earnings as a yield adjustment.For qualifying cash flow hedges,

the effective portion of the change in the fair value of the derivative is recorded
in Other comprehensive income and recognized in the income statement whenthe hedged cash flows affect earnings.The ineffective portions of cash flow

hedges are immediately recognized in earnings.If the hedge relationship is 

terminated,then the change in fair value of the derivative recorded in Other

comprehensive income is recognized when the cash flows that were hedged
occur,consistent with the original hedge strategy.For hedge relationships dis-

continued because the forecasted transaction is not expected to occur accord-

ing to the original strategy,any related derivative amounts recorded in Other

comprehensive income are immediately recognized in earnings.For qualifying

net investment hedges,changes in the fair value of the derivative or the revalu-

ationof the foreign currencyÐdenominated debt instrument are recorded in the

translation adjustments account within Other comprehensive income.Any inef-

fective portions of net investment hedges are immediately recognized in earnings.
JPMorgan ChaseÕs fair value hedges primarily include hedges of fixed-rate 
long-term debt,loans,AFS securities and MSRs.Interest rate swaps are the

most common type of derivative contract used to modify exposure to interest

rate risk,converting fixed-rate assets and liabilities to a floating rate.Interest

rate options,swaptions and forwards are also used in combination with interest

rate swaps to hedge the fair value of the FirmÕs MSRs.For a further discussion

of MSR risk management activities,see Note 15 on pages 109Ð111 of this

Annual Report.All amounts have been included in earnings consistent with the

classification of the hedged item,primarily Net interest income,Mortgage fees

and related income,and Other income.The Firm did not recognize any gains or

lossesduring 2004 on commitments that no longer qualify as fair value hedges.
JPMorgan Chase also enters into derivative contracts to hedge exposure to
variability in cash flows from floating-rate financial instruments and forecasted

transactions,primarily the rollover of short-term assets and liabilities,and 

foreign currency-denominated revenues and expenses.Interest rate swaps,

futures and forward contracts are the most common instruments used to

reduce the impact of interest rate and foreign exchange rate changes on

future earnings.All amounts affecting earnings have been recognized consis-

tent with the classification of the hedged item,primarily Net interest income.
The Firm uses forward foreign exchange contracts and foreign currency-
denominated debt instruments to protect the value of its net investments in

foreign currencies in its non-U.S.subsidiaries.The portion of the hedging

instruments excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness (forward

points) is recorded in Net interest income.
The following table presents derivative instrument hedging-related activities
for the periods indicated:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)20042003Fair value hedge ineffective net gains/(losses)
(b)$199
$731
(c)Cash flow hedge ineffective net gains/(losses)(b)Ñ(5)Cash flow hedging gains on forecasted transactions that failed to occur
1Ñ(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.2003 reflects the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Includes ineffectiveness and the components of hedging instruments that have been 
excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.
(c)Amount restated to include the ineffectiveness and amounts excluded from the assessment
of effectiveness associated with MSR hedging results.
Over the next 12 months,it is expected that $157 million (after-tax) of net gains
recorded in Other comprehensive income at December 31,2004,will be recog-

nized in earnings.The maximum length of time over which forecasted transac-

tions are hedged is 10 years,related to core lending and borrowing activities.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
119JPMorgan Chase does not seek to apply hedge accounting to all of its eco-nomic hedges.For example,the Firm does not apply hedge accounting to

credit derivatives used to manage the credit risk of loans and commitments

because of the difficulties in qualifying such contracts as hedges under SFAS

133.Similarly,the Firm does not apply hedge accounting to certain interest

rate derivatives used as economic hedges.
Note 27ÐOff-balance sheet lending-related
financial instruments and guarantees
JPMorgan Chase utilizes lending-related financial instruments (e.g.,commit-
ments and guarantees) to meet the financing needs of its customers.The con-

tractual amount of these financial instruments represents the maximum possi-

ble credit risk should the counterparty draw down the commitment or the Firm

fulfill its obligation under the guarantee,and the counterparty subsequently

failed to perform according to the terms of the contract.Most of these com-

mitments and guarantees expire without a default occurring or without being

drawn.As a result,the total contractual amount of these instruments is not,in

the FirmÕs view,representative of its actual future credit exposure or funding

requirements.Further,certain commitments,primarily related to consumer

financings,are cancelable,upon notice,at the option of the Firm.
To provide for the risk of loss inherent in wholesale-related contracts,an
allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments is maintained.

See Note 12 on pages 102Ð103 of this Annual Report for a further discussion

on the allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments.
The following table summarizes the contractual amounts of offÐbalance 
sheet lending-related financial instruments and guarantees and the related

allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments at December 31,

2004 and 2003:OffÐbalance sheet lending-related financial instruments
Allowance for
Contractuallending-related 
amountcommitments
December 31,(in millions)
20042003(a)20042003(a)Consumer$601,196
$181,198
$12
$4Wholesale:Other unfunded commitments to extend credit(b)(c)(d)$225,152
$172,369
$185
$153
Standby letters of credit and guarantees
(b)78,08434,922292165Other letters of credit(b)6,1634,19232Total wholesale
$309,399
$211,483
$480
$320
Total
$910,595
$392,681
$492
$324
CustomersÕ securities lent$215,972
$143,143
NANA(a) Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b) Represents contractual amount net of risk participations totaling $26.4 billion and $16.5
billion at December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively.
(c) Includes unused advised lines of credit totaling $22.8 billion and $19.4 billion at December
31,2004 and 2003,respectively,which are not legally binding.In regulatory filings with the

Federal Reserve Board,unused advised lines are not reportable.
(d) Includes certain asset purchase agreements to the FirmÕs administered multi-seller asset-
backed commercial paper conduits of $31.8 billion and $11.7 billion at December 31,2004

and 2003,respectively;excludes $31.7 billion and $6.3 billion at December 31,2004 and

2003,respectively,of asset purchase agreements related to the FirmÕs administered multi-

seller asset-backed commercial paper conduits consolidated in accordance with FIN 46R,

as the underlying assets of the conduits are reported in the FirmÕs Consolidated balance

sheets.It also includes $7.5 billion and $9.2 billion at December 31,2004 and 2003,

respectively,of asset purchase agreements to structured wholesale loan vehicles and other

third-party entities.The allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments related

to these agreements was insignificant at December 31,2004 and 2003.
FIN 45 establishes accounting and disclosure requirements for guarantees,
requiring that a guarantor recognize,at the inception of a guarantee,a liability

in an amount equal to the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing

the guarantee.FIN 45 defines a guarantee as a contract that contingently

requires the Firm to pay a guaranteed party,based on:(a) changes in an

underlying asset,liability or equity security of the guaranteed party;or (b) a

third partyÕs failure to perform under a specified agreement.The Firm considers

the following offÐbalance sheet lending arrangements to be guarantees under

FIN 45:certain asset purchase agreements,standby letters of credit and finan-

cial guarantees,securities lending indemnifications,certain indemnification

agreements included within third-party contractual arrangements and certain

derivative contracts.These guarantees are described in further detail below.
As of January 1,2003,newly issued or modified guarantees that are not deriv-
ative contracts have been recorded on the FirmÕs Consolidated balance sheets

at their fair value at inception.The fair value of the obligation undertaken in

issuing the guarantee at inception is typically equal to the net present value of

the future amount of premium receivable under the contract.The Firm has

recorded this amount in Other Liabilities with an offsetting entry recorded in
Other Assets.As cash is received under the contract,it is applied to the premium

receivable recorded in Other Assets,and the fair value of the liability recorded

at inception is amortized into income as Lending & deposit related fees over
the life of the guarantee contract.The amount of the liability related to guar-

antees recorded at December 31,2004 and 2003,excluding the allowance

for credit losses on lending-related commitments and derivative contracts dis-

cussed below,was approximately $341 million and $59 million,respectively.
Unfunded commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend only when acustomer has complied with predetermined conditions,and they generally

expire on fixed dates.The allowance for credit losses on wholesale lending-

related commitments includes $185 million and $153 million at December
31,2004 and 2003,respectively,related to unfunded commitments to extend

credit.The majority of the FirmÕs unfunded commitments are not guarantees

as defined in FIN 45,except for certain asset purchase agreements.These

asset-purchase agreements are principally used as a mechanism to provide
liquidity to SPEs,primarily multi-seller conduits,as described in Note 14 on

pages 106Ð109 of this Annual Report.
Certain asset purchase agreements can be exercised at any time by the SPEÕs
administrator,while others require a triggering event to occur.Triggering

events include,but are not limited to,a need for liquidity,a market value

decline of the assets or a downgrade in the rating of JPMorgan Chase Bank.

These agreements may cause the Firm to purchase an asset from the SPE at

an amount above the assetÕs fair value,in effect providing a guarantee of the

initial value of the reference asset as of the date of the agreement.In most

instances,third-party credit enhancements of the SPE mitigate the FirmÕs

potential losses on these agreements.The allowance for credit losses on

wholesale lending-related commitments related to these agreements was

insignificant at December 31,2004.
Standby letters of credit and financial guarantees are conditional lending
commitments issued by JPMorgan Chase to guarantee the performance of a

customer to a third party under certain arrangements,such as commercial

paper facilities,bond financings,acquisition financings and similar transac-

tions.Approximately 70% of these arrangements mature within three years.

The Firm typically has recourse to recover from the customer any amounts paid

under these guarantees;in addition,the Firm may hold cash or other highly

liquid collateral to support these guarantees.At December 31,2004 and 2003,
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
120JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
the Firm held collateral relating to $7.4 billion and $7.7 billion,respectively,of
these arrangements.The allowance for credit losses on lending-related commit-

ments at December 31,2004 and 2003,included $292 million and $165 mil-

lion,respectively,related to standby letters of credit and financial guarantees.
The Firm holds customersÕ securities under custodial arrangements.At times,
these securities are loaned to third parties,and the Firm issues securities lending

indemnification agreements to the customer that protect the customer against
the risk of loss if the third party fails to return the securities.To support these

indemnification agreements,the Firm obtains from the third party cash or other

highly liquid collateral with a market value exceeding 100% of the value of the

loaned securities.At December 31,2004 and 2003,the Firm held $221.6 billion

and $146.7 billion,respectively,in collateral in support of these agreements.
In connection with issuing securities to investors,the Firm may enter into con-
tractual arrangements with third parties that may require the Firm to make a

payment to them in the event of a change in tax law or an adverse interpreta-
tion of tax law.In certain cases,the contract may also include a termination

clause,which would allow the Firm to settle the contract at its fair value;thus,

such a clause would not require the Firm to make a payment under the indemni-

fication agreement.Even without the termination clause,management does not

expect such indemnification agreements to have a material adverse effect on the
consolidated financial condition of JPMorgan Chase.The Firm may also enter

into indemnification clauses when it sells a business or assets to a third party,

pursuant to which it indemnifies that third party for losses it may incur due to
actions taken by the Firm prior to the sale.See below for more information

regarding the FirmÕs loan securitization activities.It is difficult to estimate the

FirmÕs maximum exposure under these indemnification arrangements,since this

would require an assessment of future changes in tax law and future claims that
may be made against the Firm that have not yet occurred.However,based on

historical experience,management expects the risk of loss to be remote.
As part of the FirmÕs loan securitization activities,as described in Note 13 on
pages 103Ð106 of this Annual Report,the Firm provides representations and

warranties that certain securitized loans meet specific requirements.The Firm

may be required to repurchase the loans and/or indemnify the purchaser of 
the loans against losses due to any breaches of such representations or war-

ranties.Generally,the maximum amount of future payments the Firm would 

be required to make under such repurchase and/or indemnification provisions

would be equal to the current amount of assets held by such securitization-
related SPEs as of December 31,2004,plus,in certain circumstances,accrued

and unpaid interest on such loans and certain expenses.The potential loss due

to such repurchase and/or indemnity is mitigated by the due diligence the Firm
performs to ensure that the assets comply with the requirements set forth in
the representations and warranties.Historically,losses incurred on such repur-

chases and/or indemnifications have been insignificant,and therefore manage-

ment expects the risk of material loss to be remote.
In connection with Card Services,the Firm is a partner with one of the lead-
ing companies in electronic payment services in two separate ventures,Chase

Merchant Services and Paymentech (the ÒventuresÓ),the latter of which was

acquired as a result of the Merger.These ventures provide merchant process-

ing services in the United States and Canada.The ventures are each individu-

ally contingently liable for processed credit card sales transactions in the

event of a dispute between the cardmember and a merchant.If a dispute is

resolved in the cardmemberÕs favor,the ventures will credit or refund the

amount to the cardmember and charge back the transaction to the merchant.

If the ventures are unable to collect the amount from the merchant,the 
ventures will bear the loss for the amount credited or refunded to the card-
member.The ventures mitigate this risk by withholding settlement,or by

obtaining escrow deposits or letters of credit from certain merchants.

However,in the unlikely event that:1) a merchant ceases operations and is

unable to deliver products,services or a refund;2) the ventures do not have

sufficient collateral from the merchants to provide customer refunds;and 3)

the ventures do not have sufficient financial resources to provide customer
refunds,the Firm wouldbe liable to refund the cardholder in proportion to its

approximate equity interest in the ventures.For the year ended December 31,

2004,the ventures incurred aggregate credit losses of $7.1 million on $396

billion of aggregate volume processed,of which the Firm shared liability only

on $205 billion of aggregate volume processed.At December 31,2004,the

ventures held $620 million of collateral.In 2003,the Chase Merchant

Services venture incurred aggregate credit losses of $2.0 million on $260 bil-
lion of aggregate volume processed,of which the Firm shared liability only on

$77 billion of aggregate volume processed.At December 31,2003,the Chase

Merchant Services venture held $242 million of collateral.The Firm believes

that,based on historical experience and the collateral held by the ventures,

the fair value of the guarantee would not be materially different from the credit

loss allowance recorded by the ventures;therefore,the Firm has not recorded

any allowance for losses in excess of the allowance recorded by the ventures.
The Firm is a member of several securities and futures exchanges and clearing-
houses both in the United States and overseas.Membership in some of these

organizations requires the Firm to pay a pro rata share of the losses incurred by

the organization as a result of the default of another member.Such obligation

varies with different organizations.It may be limited to members who dealt with

the defaulting member or to the amount (or a multiple of the amount) of the
FirmÕs contribution to a membersÕ guaranty fund,or,in a few cases,it may be

unlimited.It is difficult to estimate the FirmÕs maximum exposure under these

membership agreements,since this would require an assessment of future claims

that may be made against the Firm that have not yet occurred.However,based

on historical experience,management expects the risk of loss to be remote.
In addition to the contracts described above,there are certain derivative 
contracts to which the Firm is a counterparty that meet the characteristics of

a guarantee under FIN 45.These derivatives are recorded on the Consolidated

balance sheets at fair value.These contracts include written put options that

require the Firm to purchase assets from the option holder at a specified price
by a specified date in the future,as well as derivatives that effectively guaran-

tee the return on a counterpartyÕs reference portfolio of assets.The total

notional value of the derivatives that the Firm deems to be guarantees was

$53 billion and $50 billion at December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively.The

Firm reduces its exposures to these contracts by entering into offsetting trans-

actions or by entering into contracts that hedge the market risk related to

these contracts.The fair value related to these contracts was a derivative

receivable of $180 million and $163 million,and a derivative payable of 

$622 million and $333 million at December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively.

Finally,certain written put options and credit derivatives permit cash settle-

ment and do not require the option holder or the buyer of credit protection 
to own the reference asset.The Firm does not consider these contracts to be

guarantees as described in FIN 45.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
121Note 28ÐCredit risk concentrations
Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of customers are engaged in
similar business activities or activities in the same geographic region,or when

they have similar economic features that would cause their ability to meet con-
tractual obligations to be similarly affected by changes in economic conditions.
JPMorgan Chase regularly monitors various segments of its credit risk portfo-
lio to assess potential concentration risks and to obtain collateral when

deemed necessary.In the FirmÕs wholesale portfolio,risk concentrations are

primarily evaluated by industry and by geographic region.In the consumer

portfolio,concentrations are primarily evaluated by product and by U.S.

geographic region.
For further information regarding onÐbalance sheet credit concentrations 

by major product and geography,see Note 11 on page 101 of this Annual

Report.For information regarding concentrations of offÐbalance sheet 

lending-related financial instruments by major product,see Note 27 on 

page 119 of this Annual Report.More information about concentrations can

be found in the following tables or discussion in the MD&A:Wholesale exposurePage 60
Wholesale selected industry concentrationsPage 61

Country exposurePage 65
Consumer real estate by geographic locationPage 67
The table below presents both on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet wholesale- and consumer-related credit exposure as of Dece
mber 31,2004 and 2003:
20042003(c)CreditOn-balanceOff-balanceCreditOn-balanceOff-balance
December 31,(in billions)exposuresheet
(a)sheet(b)exposuresheet
(a)sheet(b)Wholesale-related:Banks and finance companies$56.2$25.7$30.5
$62.7$39.7$23.0
Real estate28.216.711.5
14.58.85.7
Healthcare22.04.517.5
11.31.89.5
Retail and consumer services21.76.015.7
14.54.210.3
Consumer products21.47.114.3
13.83.610.2
All other wholesale392.7172.8219.9
258.7105.9152.8
Total wholesale-related
542.2232.8309.4
375.5164.0211.5
Consumer-related:
Home finance177.9124.753.2
106.274.631.6
Auto & education finance 67.962.75.2
45.843.22.6
Consumer & small business and other 25.415.110.3
10.04.25.8
Credit card receivables
(d)597.064.5532.5
158.517.4141.1
Total consumer-related
868.2267.0601.2
320.5139.4181.1
Total exposure
$1,410.4$499.8$910.6
$696.0$303.4$392.6
(a)Represents loans,derivative receivables,interests in purchased receivables and other receivables.
(b)Represents lending-related financial instruments.

(c)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.

(d)Excludes $70.8 billion and $34.9 billion of securitized credit card receivables at December 31,2004 and 2003,respectively.
Note 29ÐFair value of financial instruments
The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount at which the instrument
could be exchanged in a current transaction between willing parties,other

than in a forced or liquidation sale.
The accounting for an asset or liability may differ based on the type of instru-
ment and/or its use in a trading or investing strategy.Generally,the measure-

ment framework in financial statements is one of the following:
¥  at fair value on the Consolidated balance sheets,with changes in fair value
recorded each period in the Consolidated statements of income;¥  at fair value on the Consolidated balance sheets,with changes in fair value
recorded each period in a separate component of StockholdersÕ equity and

as part of Other comprehensive income;¥  at cost (less other-than-temporary impairments),with changes in fair value
not recorded in the financial statements but disclosed in the notes thereto;
or¥  at the lower of cost or fair value.

The Firm has an established and well-documented process for determining
fair values.Fair value is based on quoted market prices,where available.

If listed prices or quotes are not available,fair value is based on internally-

developed models that primarily use market-based or independent information

as inputs to the valuation model.Valuation adjustments may be necessary to

ensure that financial instruments are recorded at fair value.These adjustments

include amounts to reflect counterparty credit quality,liquidity and concentra-

tion concerns and are based on defined methodologies that 
are applied consistently over time.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
122JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
¥  Credit valuation adjustments are necessary when the market price (or
parameter) is not indicative of the credit quality of the counterparty.As few

derivative contracts are listed on an exchange,the majority of derivative

positions are valued using internally developed models that use as their

basis observable market parameters.Market practice is to quote parame-

ters equivalent to a AA credit rating;thus,all counterparties are assumed

to have the same credit quality.An adjustment is therefore necessary to

reflect the credit quality of each derivative counterparty and to arrive at

fair value.Without this adjustment,derivative positions would not be

appropriately valued.
¥  Liquidity adjustments are necessary when the Firm may not be able to
observe a recent market price for a financial instrument that trades in inac-

tive (or less active) markets.Thus,valuation adjustments for risk of loss due

to a lack of liquidity are applied to those positions to arrive at fair value.

The Firm tries to ascertain the amount of uncertainty in the initial valuation

based upon the liquidity or illiquidity,as the case may be,of the market in

which the instrument trades and makes liquidity adjustments to the finan-

cial instruments.The Firm measures the liquidity adjustment based on the

following factors:(1) the amount of time since the last relevant pricing

point;(2) whether there was an actual trade or relevant external quote;

and (3) the volatility of the principal component of the financial instrument.¥  Concentration valuation adjustments are necessary to reflect the cost of
unwinding larger-than-normal market-size risk positions.The cost is deter-

mined based on the size of the adverse market move that is likely to occur

during the extended period required to bring a position down to a noncon-
centrated level.An estimate of the period needed to reduce,without mar-

ket disruption,a position to a nonconcentrated level is generally based on

the relationship of the position to the average daily trading volume of that

position.Without these adjustments,larger positions would be valued at a

price greater than the price at which the Firm could exit the positions.
Valuation adjustments are determined based on established policies and are
controlled by a price verification group independent of the risk-taking function.
Economic substantiation of models,prices,market inputs and revenue through

price/input testing,as well as backtesting,is done to validate the appropriate-

ness of the valuation methodology.Any changes to the valuation methodology

are reviewed by management to ensure the changes are justified.The methods described above may produce a fair value calculation that may
not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future fair values.

Furthermore,the use of different methodologies to determine the fair value of

certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair value

at the reporting date.
Certain financial instruments and all nonfinancial instruments are excludedfrom the scope of SFAS 107.Accordingly,the fair value disclosures required

by SFAS 107 provide only a partial estimate of the fair value of JPMorgan

Chase.For example,the Firm has developed long-term relationships with its

customers through its deposit base and credit card accounts,commonly

referred to as core deposit intangibles and credit card relationships.In the

opinion of management,these items,in the aggregate,add significant value

to JPMorgan Chase,but their fair value is not disclosed in this Note.
The following describes the methodologies and assumptions used,by financial
instrument,to determine fair value.
Financial assets
Assets for which fair value approximates carrying value

The Firm considers fair values of certain financial assets carried at cost Ð

including cash and due from banks,deposits with banks,securities borrowed,

short-term receivables and accrued interest receivable Ð to approximate their

respective carrying values,due to their short-term nature and generally negli-

gible credit risk.Assets where fair value differs from cost
The FirmÕs debt,equity and derivative trading instruments are carried at their

estimated fair value.Quoted market prices,when available,are used to deter-

mine the fair value of trading instruments.If quoted market prices are not

available,then fair values are estimated by using pricing models,quoted prices

of instruments with similar characteristics,or discounted cash flows.
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements are 

typically short-term in nature and,as such,for a significant majority of the

FirmÕs transactions,cost approximates carrying value.This balance sheet item

also includes structured resale agreements and similar products with long-
dated maturities.To estimate the fair value of these instruments,cash flows

are discounted using the appropriate market rates for the applicable maturity.
SecuritiesFair values of actively traded securities are determined by the secondary 

market,while the fair values for nonactively traded securities are based on

independent broker quotations.
DerivativesFair value for derivatives is determined based on the following:
¥  position valuation,principally based on liquid market pricing as evidenced
by exchange-traded prices,broker-dealer quotations or related input

parameters,which assume all counterparties have the same credit rating;
¥  credit valuation adjustments to the resulting portfolio valuation,to reflect
the credit quality of individual counterparties;and
¥  other fair value adjustments to take into consideration liquidity,concentra-
tion and other factors.
For those derivatives valued based on models with significant unobservable
market parameters,the Firm defers the initial trading profit for these financial

instruments.The deferred profit is recognized in Trading revenue on a systematic

basis and when observable market data becomes available.
The fair value of derivative payables does not incorporate a valuation adjust-
ment to reflect JPMorgan ChaseÕs credit quality.
Interests in purchased receivables
The fair value of variable-rate interests in purchased receivables approximate

their respective carrying amounts due to their variable interest terms and 

negligible credit risk.The estimated fair values for fixed-rate interests in 

purchased receivables are determined using a discounted cash flow analysis

using appropriate market rates for similar instruments.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
123LoansFair value for loans is determined using methodologies suitable for each type

of loan:¥  Fair value for the wholesale loan portfolio is estimated primarily using the
cost of credit derivatives,which is adjusted to account for the differences

in recovery rates between bonds,on which the cost of credit derivatives is

based,and loans.
¥  Fair values for consumer installment loans (including automobile financ-
ings) and consumer real estate,for which market rates for comparable

loans are readily available,are based on discounted cash flows,adjusted

for prepayments.The discount rates used for consumer installment loans

are current rates offered by commercial banks.For consumer real estate,

secondary market yields for comparable mortgage-backed securities,

adjusted for risk,are used.
¥  Fair value for credit card receivables is based on discounted expected cash
flows.The discount rates used for credit card receivables incorporate only

the effects of interest rate changes,since the expected cash flows already

reflect an adjustment for credit risk.¥  The fair value of loans in the held-for-sale and trading portfolios is generally
based on observable market prices and on prices of similar instruments,

including bonds,credit derivatives and loans with similar characteristics.If

market prices are not available,the fair value is based on the estimated cash

flows adjusted for credit risk;that risk is discounted,using a rate appropri-

ate for each maturity that incorporates the effects of interest rate changes.
Other assets This caption includes private equity investments and MSRs.
For a discussion of the fair value methodology for private equity investments,
see Note 9 on page 100 of this Annual Report.
For a discussion of the fair value methodology for MSRs,see Note 15 on
pages 109Ð111 of this Annual Report.
Financial liabilities
Liabilities for which fair value approximates carrying value 

SFAS 107 requires that the fair value for deposit liabilities with no stated

maturity (i.e.,demand,savings and certain money market deposits) be equal

to their carrying value.SFAS 107 does not allow for the recognition of the

inherent funding value of these instruments.
Fair value of commercial paper,other borrowed funds,accounts payable and
accrued liabilities is considered to approximate their respective carrying values

due to their short-term nature.
Interest-bearing deposits
Fair values of interest-bearing deposits are estimated by discounting cash

flows based on the remaining contractual maturities of funds having similar

interest rates and similar maturities.
Federal funds purchased and securities sold 
under repurchase agreements

Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements are

typically short-term in nature;as such,for a significant majority of these

transactions,cost approximates carrying value.This balance sheet item also

includes structured repurchase agreements and similar products with long-dated
maturities.To estimate the fair value of these instruments,the cash flows are

discounted using the appropriate market rates for the applicable maturity.
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs (Òbeneficial interestsÓ) are

generally short-term in nature and,as such,for a significant majority of the

FirmÕs transactions,cost approximates carrying value.The Consolidated 

balance sheets also include beneficial interests with long-dated maturities.

The fair value of these instruments is based on current market rates.
Long-term debt-related instruments
Fair value for long-term debt,including the junior subordinated deferrable

interest debentures held by trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securi-

ties,is based on current market rates and is adjusted for JPMorgan ChaseÕs

credit quality.
Lending-related commitments
Although there is no liquid secondary market for wholesale commitments,

the Firm estimates the fair value of its wholesale lending-related commit-

ments primarily using the cost of credit derivatives (which is adjusted to

account for the difference in recovery rates between bonds,on which the 

cost of credit derivatives is based,and loans) and loan equivalents (which

represent the portion of an unused commitment expected,based on the

FirmÕs average portfolio historical experience,to become outstanding in the

event an obligor defaults).The Firm estimates the fair value of its consumer

commitments to extend credit based on the primary market prices to originate

new commitments.It is the change in current primary market prices that 

provides the estimate of the fair value of these commitments.
On this basis,at December 31,2004 and 2003,the fair value of the FirmÕs
lending-related commitments approximated the Allowance for lending-related

commitments of $492 million and $324 million,respectively.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
124JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
The following table presents the carrying value and estimated fair value of financial assets and liabilities valued under SFAS 
107;accordingly,certain assets and lia-
bilities that are not considered financial instruments are excluded from the table.
20042003(a)(b)Carrying EstimatedAppreciation/Carrying EstimatedAppreciation/
December 31,(in billions)valuefair value(depreciation)valuefair value(depreciation)
Financial assetsAssets for which fair value approximates carrying value
$125.7$125.7$Ñ
$84.6$84.6$Ñ
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements
101.4101.3(0.1)
76.977.20.3
Trading assets
288.8288.8Ñ
252.9252.9Ñ
Securities 94.594.5Ñ
60.360.3Ñ
Loans:Wholesale,net of allowance for loan losses
132.0134.62.6
73.274.51.3
Consumer,net of allowance for loan losses
262.8262.5(0.3)
137.0138.21.2
Interests in purchased receivables
31.731.80.1
4.84.8Ñ
Other assets50.451.10.7
61.061.50.5
Total financial assets
$1,087.3$1,090.3$3.0
$750.7$754.0$3.3
Financial liabilitiesLiabilities for which fair value approximates carrying value
$228.8$228.8$Ñ
$146.6$146.6$Ñ
Interest-bearing deposits385.3385.5(0.2)
247.0247.1(0.1)
Federal funds purchased and securities 
sold under repurchase agreements127.8127.8Ñ
113.5113.6(0.1)
Trading liabilities
151.2151.2Ñ
149.4149.4Ñ
Beneficial interests issued by consolidated VIEs
48.148.00.1
12.312.3Ñ
Long-term debt-related instruments105.7107.7(2.0)
54.857.0(2.2)
Total financial liabilities
$1,046.9$1,049.0$(2.1)
$723.6$726.0$(2.4)
Net appreciation$0.9
$0.9
(a)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Amounts have been revised to reflect the current yearÕs presentation.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
125Income before For the year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)Revenue(b)Expense(c)income taxesNet income
2004Europe/Middle East and Africa
$6,566$4,635$1,931$1,305
Asia and Pacific
2,6311,766865547
Latin America and the Caribbean
816411405255
Other112773525
Total international
10,1256,8893,2362,132
Total U.S.
32,97230,0142,9582,334
Total 
$43,097$36,903$6,194$4,466
2003Europe/Middle East and Africa$6,344$4,076$2,268$1,467

Asia and Pacific1,9021,77213091

Latin America and the Caribbean1,000531469287
Other50173334
Total international9,2966,3962,9001,879
Total U.S.24,08816,9607,1284,840
Total $33,384$23,356$10,028$6,719
2002Europe/Middle East and Africa$5,120$4,882$238$157

Asia and Pacific1,9001,8208053

Latin America and the Caribbean68555712885
Other423485
Total international7,7477,293454300
Total U.S.21,86719,8022,0651,363
Total $29,614$27,095$2,519$1,663
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.All other p
eriods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(b)Revenue is composed of Net interest income and noninterest revenue.

(c)Expense is composed of Noninterest expense and Provision for credit losses.
Note 30 Ð International operations 
The following table presents income statement information of JPMorgan
Chase by major geographic area.The Firm defines international activities as

business transactions that involve customers residing outside of the United

States,and the information presented below is based primarily on the domi-

cile of the customer.However,many of the FirmÕs U.S.operations serve inter-

national businesses.
As the FirmÕs operations are highly integrated,estimates and subjective

assumptions have been made to apportion revenue and expense between
U.S.and international operations.These estimates and assumptions are con-

sistent with the allocations used for the FirmÕs segment reporting as set forth

in Note 31 on pages 126Ð127 of this Annual Report.
The FirmÕs long-lived assets for the periods presented are not considered by
management to be significant in relation to total assets.The majority of the

FirmÕs long-lived assets are located in the United States.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
126JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Note 31 Ð Business segments JPMorgan Chase is organized into six major reportable business segments:the Investment Bank,Retail Financial Services,Card Services,Commercial

Banking,Treasury & Securities Services and Asset & Wealth Management,as

well as a Corporate segment.The segments are based on the products and

services provided or the type of customer served,and they reflect the manner

in which financial information is currently evaluated by management.Results

of these lines of business are presented on an operating basis.For a definition

of operating basis,see the footnotes to the table below.For a further discus-

sion concerning JPMorgan ChaseÕs business segments,see Business segment

results on pages 28Ð29 of this Annual Report.
In connection with the Merger,business segment reporting was realigned to

reflect the new business structure of the combined Firm.Treasury was trans-

ferred from the Investment Bank into Corporate.The segment formerly known

as Chase Financial Services had been comprised of Chase Home Finance,

Chase Cardmember Services,Chase Auto Finance,Chase Regional Banking

and Chase Middle Market;as a result of the Merger,this segment is now

called Retail Financial Services and is comprised of Home Finance,Auto &

Education Finance,Consumer & Small Business Banking and Insurance.Chase

Middle Market moved into Commercial Banking,and Chase Cardmember

Services is now its own segment called Card Services.Treasury & Securities

Services remains unchanged.Investment Management & Private Banking has

been renamed Asset & Wealth Management.JPMorgan Partners,which formerly

was a stand-alone business segment,was moved into Corporate.Lastly,
Segment results and reconciliation
(a)(table continued on next page)Year ended December 31,
(b)Investment Bank(e)Retail Financial ServicesCard Services
(f)Commercial Banking(in millions,except ratios)
200420032002
200420032002
200420032002
200420032002
Netinterest income
$1,325
$1,667$1,978
$7,714
$5,220$3,823
$8,374
$5,052$4,930
$1,692
$959$999
Noninterest revenue11,70511,2708,881
3,1192,2322,541
2,3491,097995
561354348
Intersegment revenue(c)(425)(253)(177)
(42)(24)(16)
22(5)(12)
1213918
Total net revenue
12,60512,68410,682
10,7917,4286,348
10,7456,1445,913
2,3741,3521,365
Provision for credit losses(640)(181)2,392
449521334
4,8512,9042,751
41672
Credit reimbursement(to)/from TSS(d)90(36)(82)
ÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑMerger costsÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑLitigation reserve chargeÑ100Ñ
ÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑExcess real estate chargeÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑOther noninterest expense8,6968,2027,798
6,8254,4713,733
3,8832,1782,129
1,343822809
Income (loss) beforeincome tax expense4,6394,527410
3,5172,4362,281
2,0111,0621,033
990524484
Income tax expense(benefit)
1,6911,722(3)
1,318889849
737379369
382217201
Net income (loss)$2,948
$2,805$413
$2,199
$1,547$1,432
$1,274
$683$664
$608
$307$283
Average equity
$17,290
$18,350$19,134
$9,092
$4,220$3,907
$7,608
$3,440$3,444
$2,093
$1,059$1,199
Average assets
473,121436,488429,866
185,928147,435114,248
94,74151,40649,648
36,43516,46015,973
Return on average equity
17%15%2%
24%37%37%
17%20%19%
29%29%24%
Overhead ratio
696573
636059
363536
576159
(a)In addition to analyzing the FirmÕs results on a reported basis,management looks at results on an Òoperating basis,Ówhich is
 a non-GAAP financial measure.Operating basis starts with the reported U.S.
GAAP results.In the case of the Investment Bank,the operating basis includes the reclassification of net interest income relate
d to trading activities to Trading revenue.In the case of Card Services,refer 
to footnote (f).These adjustments do not change JPMorgan ChaseÕs reported net income.Finally,operating basis excludes the Merge
r costs,the Litigation reserve charge and accounting policy conformity 
adjustments related to the Merger,as management believes these items are not part of the FirmÕs normal daily business operation
s (and,therefore,not indicative of trends) and do not provide meaningful
comparisons with other periods.
(b) 2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.All other 
periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.
(c)Intersegment revenue includes intercompany revenue and revenue-sharing agreements,net of intersegment expenses.Transactions 
between business segments are primarily conducted at fair value.
(d)TSS reimburses the IB for credit portfolio exposures the IB manages on behalf of clients the segments share.At the time of t
he Merger,the reimbursement methodology was revised to be based on pre-tax
earnings,net of the cost of capital related to those exposures.Prior to the Merger,the credit reimbursement was based on pre-ta
x earnings,plus the allocated capital associated with the shared clients.
(e)Segment operating results include the reclassification of Net interest income (ÒNIIÓ) related to trading activities to Tradi
ng revenue within Noninterest revenue,which primarily impacts the Investment
Bank.Trading-related NII reclassified to Trading revenue was $2.0 billion,$2.1 billion and $1.9 billion for 2004,2003 and 2002,
respectively.These amounts are eliminated in Corporate/reconciling
items to arrive at NII and Noninterest revenue on a reported GAAP basis for JPMorgan Chase.
(f)Operating results for Card Services exclude the impact of credit card securitizations on revenue,provision for credit losses
 and average assets,as JPMorgan Chase treats the sold receivables as if they
were still on the balance sheet in evaluating the overall performance of the credit card portfolio.The related securitization a
djustments for 2004,2003 and 2002 were:$5.3 billion,$3.3 billion and
$2.8 billion,respectively,in NII;$(2.4) billion,$(1.4) billion and $(1.4) billion,respectively,in Noninterest revenue;$2.9 bill
ion,$1.9 billion and $1.4 billion,respectively,in Provision for credit losses;
and $51.1 billion,$32.4 billion and $26.5 billion,respectively,in Average assets.These adjustments are eliminated in Corporate/
reconciling items to arrive at the FirmÕs reported GAAP results.
(g)Includes $858 million of accounting policy conformity adjustments consisting of approximately $1.4 billion related to the de
certification of the sellerÕs retained interest in credit card securitizations,
partially offset by a benefit of $584 million related to conforming wholesale and consumer provision methodologies for the combined Firm.(h)Merger costs attributed to the lines of business for 2004 were as follows:$74 million,Investment Bank;$201 million,Retail Fi
nancial Services;$79 million,Card Services;$23 million,Commercial
Banking;$68 million,Treasury & Securities Services;$31 million,Asset & Wealth Management;and $889 million,Corporate.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
127(table continued from previous page)Corporate/
Treasury & Securities ServicesAsset & Wealth Managementreconciling items
(e)(f)Total
200420032002
200420032002
200420032002
200420032002
$1,383
$947$962
$796
$488$467
$(4,523)
$(1,368)$(981)
$16,761
$12,965$12,178
3,2262,4752,387
3,2972,4152,328
2,079576(44)
26,33620,41917,436
248186186
8667137
(10)(10)(136)
ÑÑÑ4,8573,6083,535
4,1792,9702,932
(2,454)(802)(1,161)
43,09733,38429,614
713(14)3585
(2,150)(g)(1,746)(1,306)
2,5441,5404,331
(90)3682
ÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑ1,365(h)Ñ1,210
1,365Ñ1,210
ÑÑÑÑÑÑ3,700Ñ1,300
3,7001001,300
ÑÑÑÑÑÑÑÑ98
ÑÑ98
4,1133,0282,771
3,1332,4862,408
1,301529508
29,29421,71620,156
647615843
1,060449439
(6,670)415(2,971)
6,19410,0282,519
207193294
379162161
(2,986)(253)(1,015)
1,7283,309856
$440
$422$549
$681
$287$278
$(3,684)
$668$(1,956)
$4,466
$6,719$1,663
$2,544
$2,738$2,700
$3,902
$5,507$5,649
$33,112
$7,674$5,335
$75,641
$42,988$41,368
23,43018,37917,239
37,75133,78035,813
111,15072,03070,570 
962,556775,978733,357
17%15%20%
17%5%5%
NMNMNM
6%16%4%
858478
758482
NMNMNM
806577
Corporate is currently comprised of Private Equity (JPMorgan Partners and
ONE Equity Partners),Treasury,as well as corporate support areas,which

include Central Technology and Operations,Internal Audit,Executive Office,

Finance,General Services,Human Resources,Marketing & Communications,

the Office of General Counsel,
Real Estate and Business Services,Risk
Management and Strategy and Development.
Segment results,which are presented on an operating basis,reflect revenues
on a tax-equivalent basis.The tax-equivalent gross-up for each business 

segment is based upon the level,type and tax jurisdiction of the earnings 

and assets within each business segment.Operating revenue for the

Investment Bank includes tax-equivalent adjustments for income tax credits

primarily related to affordable housing investments as well as tax-exempt income from municipal bond investments.Information prior to the Merger has

not been restated to conform with this new presentation.The amount of the

tax-equivalent gross-up for each business segment is eliminated within the

Corporate segment and was $(303) million,$(122) million and $(116) million

for the years ended December 31,2004,2003 and 2002,respectively.
The following table provides a summary of the FirmÕs segment results for 2004,
2003 and 2002 on an operating basis.The impact of credit card securitizations,

merger costs,litigation charges and accounting policy conformity adjustments

have been included in Corporate/reconciling items so that the total Firm results

are on a reported basis.Segment results for periods prior to July 1,2004,reflect

heritage JPMorgan ChaseÐonly results and have been restated to reflect the
current business segment organization and reporting classifications.
Notes to consolidated financial statements
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
128JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Note 32 Ð Parent company
Parent company Ð statements of income
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200420032002
IncomeDividends from bank and bankholding company subsidiaries(b)$1,208
$2,436$3,079
Dividends from nonbank subsidiaries(c)7732,688422
Interest income from subsidiaries1,3709451,174
Other interest income137130148
Other income from subsidiaries,primarily fees:
Bank and bank holding company833632277
Nonbank 499385390
Other income204(25)264
Total income
5,0247,1915,754
ExpenseInterest expense to subsidiaries(c)603422405
Other interest expense1,8341,3291,511
Compensation expense353348378
Other noninterest expense1,105747699
Total expense
3,8952,8462,993
Income before income tax benefit and 
undistributed net income of subsidiaries1,1294,3452,761
Income tax benefit556474432
Equity in undistributed net income (loss) 
of subsidiaries2,7811,900(1,530)
Net income$4,466
$6,719$1,663
Parent company Ð balance sheets
December 31,(in millions)
20042003(d)AssetsCash with banks,primarily with bank subsidiaries
$513
$148
Deposits with banking subsidiaries
10,70312,554Securities purchased under resale agreements,
primarily with nonbank subsidiaries
Ñ285Trading assets
3,6063,915Available-for-sale securities 
2,3762,099Loans162550Advances to,and receivables from,subsidiaries:
Bank and bank holding company19,0769,239Nonbank34,45624,489Investment (at equity) in subsidiaries:Bank and bank holding company105,59943,853Nonbank(c)17,70110,399Goodwill and other intangibles890860Other assets11,5579,213Total assets
$206,639
$117,604
Liabilities and stockholdersÕ equity
Borrowings from,and payables to,subsidiaries
(c)$14,195
$9,488
Other borrowed funds,primarily commercial paper
15,05016,560Other liabilities6,3094,767Long-term debt(e)65,43240,635Total liabilities
100,98671,450StockholdersÕ equity105,65346,154Total liabilities and stockholdersÕ equity
$206,639
$117,604
Parent company Ð statements of cash flows
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
(a)200420032002
Operating activities
Net income$4,466
$6,719$1,663
Less:Net income of subsidiaries
4,7627,0171,971
Parent company net loss
(296)(298)(308)
Add:Cash dividends from subsidiaries
(b)(c)1,9645,0982,320
Other,net
(81)(272)(912)
Net cash provided by operating activities
1,5874,5281,100
Investing activitiesNet cash change in:Deposits with banking subsidiaries1,851(2,560)(3,755)
Securities purchased under resale agreements,
primarily with nonbank subsidiaries
35599(40)
Loans407(490)(27)
Advances to subsidiaries
(5,772)(3,165)6,172
Investment (at equity) in subsidiaries(4,015)(2,052)(2,284)
Other,net
1112(37)
Available-for-sale securities:
Purchases(392)(607)(1,171)
Proceeds from sales and maturities 1146541,877
Cash received in business acquisitions4,608ÑÑNet cash (used in) provided by investing activities(2,833)(8,109)735
Financing activitiesNet cash change in borrowings from subsidiaries(c)9412,005573
Net cash change in other borrowed funds(1,510)(2,104)(915)
Proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt12,81612,10512,533
Repayments of long-term debt(6,149)(6,733)(12,271)
Proceeds from the issuance of stock and stock-related awards
8481,213725
Redemption of preferred stock (670)ÑÑTreasury stock purchased
(738)ÑÑCash dividends paid
(3,927)(2,865)(2,784)
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities1,6113,621(2,139)
Net increase (decrease) in cash with banks36540(304)
Cash with banksat the beginning of the year148108412
Cash with banks at the end of the year,primarily with bank subsidiaries
$513
$148$108
Cash interest paid$2,383
$1,918$1,829
Cash income taxes paid
$701
$754$592
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage
JPMorgan Chase results.All other periods reflect the results of heritage JPMorgan Chase only.

For a further discussion of the Merger,see Note 2 on pages 89Ð90 of this Annual Report.
(b)Dividends in 2002 include a stock dividend of $1.2 billion from the mortgage business,
which was contributed to JPMorgan Chase Bank.
(c)Subsidiaries include trusts that issued guaranteed capital debt securities (Òissuer trustsÓ).
As a result of FIN 46,the Parent deconsolidated these trusts in 2003.The Parent received

dividends of $15 million and $11 million from the issuer trusts in 2004 and 2003,respec-

tively.For a further discussion on these issuer trusts,see Note 17 on pages 112Ð113 of this

Annual Report.(d)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.

(e)At December 31,2004,all debt that contractually matures in 2005 through 2009 totaled
$10.8 billion,$10.5 billion,$9.4 billion,$6.8 billion and $9.2 billion,respectively.
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
129Supplementary information
Selected quarterly financial data (unaudited)
(in millions,except per share,ratio and headcount data)
20042003(b)As of or for the period ended 4th
(a)3rd(a)2nd(b)1st(b)4th3rd2nd1st
Selected income statement dataNet interest income$5,329$5,452$2,994$2,986
$3,182$3,198$3,228$3,357
Noninterest revenue7,6217,0535,6376,025
4,9244,5825,8405,073
Total net revenue
12,95012,5058,6319,011
8,1067,7809,0688,430
Provision for credit losses1,1571,16920315
139223435743
Noninterest expense before Merger costs and Litigation reserve charge8,8638,6255,7136,093
5,2585,1275,7665,565
Merger costs52375290Ñ
ÑÑÑÑ
Litigation reserve chargeÑÑ3,700Ñ
ÑÑ100Ñ
Total noninterest expense
9,3869,3779,5036,093
5,2585,1275,8665,565
Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit)2,4071,959(1,075)2,903
2,7092,4302,7672,122
Income tax expense (benefit)741541(527)973
845802940722
Net income (loss)$1,666$1,418$(548)$1,930
$1,864$1,628$1,827$1,400
Per common share
Net income (loss) per share:Basic
$0.47$0.40$(0.27)$0.94
$0.92$0.80$0.90$0.69
Diluted0.460.39(0.27)0.92
0.890.780.890.69
Cash dividends declared per share0.340.340.340.34
0.340.340.340.34
Book value per share
29.6129.4221.5222.62
22.1021.5521.5320.73
Common shares outstanding

Average:Basic
3,5153,5142,0432,032
2,0162,0122,0062,000
Diluted 3,6023,5922,0432,093
2,0792,0682,0512,022
Common shares at period end3,5563,5642,0882,082
2,0432,0392,0352,030
Selected ratios

Return on common equity (ÒROEÓ)(c)6%5%NM17%
17%15%17%13%
Return on assets (ÒROAÓ)
(c)(d)0.570.50NM1.01
0.950.830.960.73
Tier 1 capital ratio
8.78.68.2%8.4
8.58.78.48.4
Total capital ratio
12.212.011.211.4
11.812.112.012.2
Tier 1 leverage ratio
6.26.55.55.9
5.65.55.55.0
Selected balance sheet (period-end)
Total assets
$1,157,248$1,138,469$817,763$801,078
$770,912$792,700$802,603$755,156
Securities94,51292,81664,91570,747
60,24465,15282,54985,178
Total loans
402,114393,701225,938217,630
214,766225,287227,394217,471
Deposits521,456496,454346,539336,886
326,492313,626318,248300,667
Long-term debt95,42291,75452,98150,062
48,01443,94543,37142,851
Common stockholdersÕ equity105,314104,84444,93247,092
45,14543,94843,81242,075
Total stockholdersÕ equity
105,653105,85345,94148,101
46,15444,95744,82143,084
Credit quality metrics

Allowance for credit losses
$7,812$8,034$4,227$4,417
$4,847$5,082$5,471$5,651
Nonperforming assets3,2313,6372,4822,882
3,1613,8534,1114,448
Allowance for loan losses to total loans
(e)1.94%2.01%1.92%2.08%
2.33%2.51%2.60%2.73%
Net charge-offs$1,398$865$392$444
$374$614$614$670
Net charge-off rate
(c)(f)1.47%0.93%0.77%0.92%
0.76%1.27%1.31%1.43%
Wholesale net charge-off rate
(c)(f)0.21(0.08)0.290.50
(0.05)1.251.251.36
Managed Card net charge-off rate
(c)5.244.885.855.81
5.775.846.045.95
Headcount160,968162,27594,61596,010
96,36795,93195,86296,637
Share price
(g)High$40.45$40.25$42.57$43.84
$36.99$38.26$36.52$28.29
Low36.3235.5034.6236.30
34.4532.4023.7520.13
Close39.0139.7338.7741.95
36.7334.33
34.1823.71
(a)Quarterly results include three months of the combined FirmÕs results.
(b)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only.

(c)Based on annualized amounts.

(d)Represents Net income / Total average assets.

(e)Excluded from this ratio were loans held for sale.

(f)Excluded from this ratio were average loans held for sale.

(g)JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange,the London Stock Exchange Limited and the 
Tokyo Stock Exchange.The high,low and closing prices of
JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock are from The New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Tape.
NM Ð Not meaningful due to net loss.
(unaudited)(in millions,except per share,headcount and ratio data)Heritage JPMorgan Chase only
As of or for the year ended December 31,2004(a)2003200220012000
Selected income statement dataNet interest income$16,761
$12,965$12,178$11,401$9,865
Noninterest revenue26,33620,41917,43617,94323,321
Total net revenue
43,09733,38429,61429,34433,186
Provision for credit losses2,5441,5404,3313,1821,380
Noninterest expense before Merger costs and Litigation reserve charge29,29421,71620,25421,07321,642
Merger and restructuring costs1,365Ñ1,2102,5231,431
Litigation reserve charge3,7001001,300ÑÑ
Total noninterest expense
34,35921,81622,76423,59623,073
Income before income tax expense and effect of accounting change
6,19410,0282,5192,5668,733
Income tax expense1,7283,3098568473,006
Income before effect of accounting change4,4666,7191,6631,7195,727
Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle (net of tax)ÑÑÑ(25)Ñ
Net income $4,466
$6,719$1,663$1,694$5,727
Per common share
Net income per share:Basic
$1.59
$3.32$0.81$  0.83
(f)$2.99
Diluted1.553.240.800.80
(f)2.86Cash dividends declared per share1.361.361.361.361.28
Book value per share
29.6122.1020.6620.3221.17
Common shares outstanding
Average:Basic 
2,7802,0091,9841,9721,884
Diluted 2,8512,0552,0092,0241,969
Common shares at period-end3,5562,0431,9991,9731,928
Selected ratios
Return on common equity (ÒROEÓ)6%16%4%4%16%
Return on assets (ÒROAÓ)
(b)0.460.870.230.230.85
Tier 1 capital ratio
8.78.58.28.38.5
Total capital ratio
12.211.812.011.912.0
Tier 1 leverage ratio
6.25.65.15.25.4
Selected balance sheet (period-end)Total assets
$1,157,248
$770,912$758,800$693,575$715,348
Securities94,51260,24484,46359,76073,695
Loans402,114214,766216,364217,444216,050
Deposits521,456326,492304,753293,650279,365
Long-term debt95,42248,01439,75139,18343,299
Common stockholdersÕ equity105,31445,14541,29740,09040,818
Total stockholdersÕ equity
105,65346,15442,30641,09942,338
Credit quality metrics
Allowance for credit losses
$7,812
$4,847$5,713$4,806$3,948
Nonperforming assets3,2313,1614,8214,0371,923
Allowance for loan losses to total loans
(c)1.94%2.33%2.80%2.25%1.77%
Net charge-offs$3,099
$2,272$3,676$2,335$1,480
Net charge-off rate
(d)1.08%1.19%1.90%1.13%0.73%
Headcount160,96896,36797,12495,812
(g)99,757(g)Share price
(e)High $43.84
$38.26$39.68$59.19$67.17
Low34.6220.1315.2629.0432.38
Close39.0136.7324.0036.3545.44
(a)2004 results include six months of the combined FirmÕs results and six months of heritage JPMorgan Chase results.
(b)Represents Net income / Total average assets.

(c)Excluded from this ratio were loans held for sale of $25.7 billion,$20.8 billion,$25.0 billion,$16.6 billion and $8.8 billio
n at December 31,2004,2003,2002,2001 and 2000,respectively.
(d)Excluded from the net charge-off rates were average loans held for sale of $21.1 billion,$29.1 billion,$17.8 billion,$12.7 b
illion and $7.1 billion as of December 31,2004,2003,2002,2001 
and 2000,respectively.
(e)JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange,the London Stock Exchange Limited and the 
Tokyo Stock Exchange.The high,low and closing prices of
JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock are from The New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Tape.
(f)Basic and diluted earnings per share were each reduced by $0.01 in 2001 because of the impact of the adoption of SFAS 133 re
lating to the accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities.
(g)Represents full-time equivalent employees,as headcount data is unavailable.
130JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Five-year summary of consolidated financial highlights
JPMorgan Chase & Co JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
131Glossary of terms
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
AICPA:
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
APB:Accounting Principles Board Opinion.APB 25:ÒAccounting for Stock Issued to Employees.Ó
Assets under management:Represent assets actively managed by Asset &
Wealth Management on behalf of institutional,private banking,private client

services and retail clients.
Assets under supervision:Represent assets under management as well ascustody,brokerage,administration and deposit accounts.
Average managed assets:
Refers to total assets on the FirmÕs balance
sheet plus credit card receivables that have been securitized.
bp:Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.
Contractual credit card charge-off:
In accordance with the Federal
Financial Institutions Examination Council policy,credit card loans are

charged-off by the end of the month in which the account becomes 180 days
past due or within 60 days from receiving notification of the filing of bank-
ruptcy,whichever is earlier.
Core deposits:
U.S.deposits insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation,up to the legal limit of $100,000 per depositor.
EITF:Emerging Issues Task Force.
EITF Issue 03-01:
ÒThe Meaning of Other-than-temporary Impairment and
Its Application to Certain Investments.Ó
FASB:
Financial Accounting Standards Board.
FIN 39:FASB Interpretation No.39,ÒOffsetting of Amounts Related to
Certain Contracts.Ó
FIN 41:FASB Interpretation No.41,ÒOffsetting of Amounts Related to
Certain Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase Agreements.Ó
FIN 45:FASB Interpretation No.45,ÒGuarantorÕs Accounting and Disclosure
Requirement for Guarantees,including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of

Others.Ó
FIN 46R:FASB Interpretation No.46 (revised December 2003),ÒConsolidation
of Variable Interest Entities,an interpretation of Accounting Research Bulletin

No.51.Ó
FASB Staff Position (ÒFSPÓ) EITF Issue 03-1-1:
ÒEffective Date ofParagraphs 10Ð20 of EITF Issue No.03-01,ÔThe Meaning of Other-than-

temporary Impairment and Its Application to Certain Investments.Õ Ó
FSP SFAS 106-2:
ÒAccounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the
Medicare Prescription Drug,Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003.Ó
FSP SFAS 109-2:
ÒAccounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign
Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of2004.Ó
Investment-grade:
An indication of credit quality based on JPMorganChaseÕs internal risk assessment system.ÒInvestment-gradeÓgenerally repre-

sents a risk profile similar to a rating of a BBB-/Baa3 or better,as defined by

independent rating agencies.
Mark-to-market exposure:
A measure,at a point in time,of the value of a
derivative or foreign exchange contract in the open market.When the mark-

to-market value is positive,it indicates the counterparty owes JPMorgan

Chase and,therefore,creates a repayment risk for the Firm.When the mark-

to-market value is negative,JPMorgan Chase owes the counterparty.In this

situation,the Firm does not have repayment risk.
Master netting agreement:
An agreement between two counterpartiesthat have multiple derivative contracts with each other that provides for the

net settlement of all contracts through a single payment,in a single currency,

in the event of default on or termination of any one contract.See FIN 39.
NA:Data is not applicable for the period presented.Net yield on interest-earning assets:
The average rate for interest-
earning assets less the average rate paid for all sources of funds.
NM:Not meaningful.Overhead ratio:
Noninterest expense as a percentage of total net revenue.
SFAS:
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards.
SFAS 87:
ÒEmployersÕ Accounting for Pensions.Ó
SFAS 88:
ÒEmployersÕ Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of
Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits.Ó
SFAS 106:
ÒEmployersÕ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than
Pensions.Ó
SFAS 107:
ÒDisclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments.Ó
SFAS 109:
ÒAccounting for Income Taxes.Ó
SFAS 114:
ÒAccounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan.Ó
SFAS 115:
ÒAccounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.Ó
SFAS 123:
ÒAccounting for Stock-Based Compensation.Ó
SFAS 123R:
ÒShare-Based Payment.Ó
SFAS 128:
ÒEarnings per Share.Ó
SFAS 133:
ÒAccounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.Ó
SFAS 138:
ÒAccounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain
Hedging Activities Ð an amendment of FASB Statement No.133.Ó
SFAS 140:
ÒAccounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and
Extinguishments of Liabilities Ð a replacement of FASB Statement No.125.Ó
SFAS 142:
ÒGoodwill and Other Intangible Assets.Ó
SFAS 149:
ÒAmendment of Statement No.133 on Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities.Ó
Staff Accounting Bulletin (ÒSABÓ) 105:
ÒApplication of Accounting
Principles to Loan Commitments.Ó
Statement of Position (ÒSOPÓ) 98-1:
ÒAccounting for the Costs of
Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use.Ó
Statement of Position (ÒSOPÓ) 03-3:
ÒAccounting for Certain Loans or
Debt Securities Acquired in a Transfer.Ó
Stress testing:
A scenario that measures market risk under unlikely but
plausible events in abnormal markets.
U.S.GAAP:
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America.Value-at-Risk (ÒVARÓ):
A measure of the dollar amount of potential lossfrom adverse market moves in an ordinary market environment.
Community Advisory Board
*132JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
Mark A. WillisChairman
Community Advisory Board

JPMorgan Chase CommunityDevelopment Group
Sharon Alexander-Holt
COO
The Urban League of
Metropolitan Denver

Denver, CO
Lauren Anderson
Executive Director

Neighborhood Housing Services
of New Orleans
New Orleans, LAPolly BacaCEO/Executive Director

Latin American Research and

Service Agency 
Denver, CO
Dionne BagsbyCommissioner
Fort Worth, TX
Salvador BalcortaExecutive Director

Centro de Salud Familiar La Fe

El Paso, TXFrank Ballesteros
Chief Administrative Officer

PPEP Microbusiness & Housing

Development Corp.
Tucson, AZEli BarbosaDirector of Neighborhood

Reinvestment
Latin United Community Housing
Association
Chicago, ILJanie Barrera
President/CEO

ACCION Texas

San Antonio, TXShaun BellePresident/CEO

The Mt. Hope Housing Company
Bronx, NY
Pascual BlancoExecutive Director

La Fuerza Unida
Glen Cove, NYTeresa Brice-HeamesVice President
Housing for Mesa
Mesa, AZSylvia Brooks
President/CEO

Houston Area Urban League

Houston, TXDonnie Brown
Executive Director

Genesis Housing Development
Corp.
Chicago, ILJames BuckleyExecutive Director

University Neighborhood 
Housing Program

Bronx, NY
Jean ButzenPresident/CEO

Lakefront Supportive Housing

Chicago, ILJoseph CarbonePresident/CEO

The WorkPlace, Inc.

Bridgeport, CTDavid ChenExecutive Director

Chinese American Planning
Council
New York, NY
William ClarkPresident/CEO

Urban League of Rochester
Rochester, NY
Cesar Claro
Executive Director

Staten Island Economic
Development Corp.
Staten Island, NYRicardo Diaz
Executive Director

United Community Center
Milwaukee, WIPeter ElkowitzPresident

Long Island Housing Partnership
Hauppauge, NYRon FafogliaExecutive Director

TSP Hope, Inc.
Springfield, ILMelissa Flournoy
President/CEO

The Louisiana Assoc. of Nonprofit
Organizations (LANO)
Baton Rouge, LAWilliam Frey
Vice President, Director
Enterprise Foundation NYC Office

New York, NY
David GallagherExecutive Director

Center for Neighborhood
Economic Development
Long Island City, NY
Reuben GantExecutive Director

Greenwood Community

Development Corp.
Tulsa, OKReginald GatesPresident/CEO

Dallas Black Chamber of
Commerce

Dallas, TXSarah Gerecke
CEO
Neighborhood Housing Services
of NYC
New York, NY
Christie GillespieExecutive Director

Indiana Assoc. for Community
Economic Development
Indianapolis, INErnest Gonzalez
Corporate Committee Chair
Long Island Hispanic Chamber 
of Commerce

West Islip, NYMary Jane GonzalezRegional Director

Central Indiana Small Business
Development Center
Indianapolis, INDina GonzalezPresident

West Michigan HispanicChamber of Commerce

Grand Rapids, MIBruce GottschallExecutive Director

Neighborhood Housing Services
of Chicago
Chicago, ILColvin GrannumPresident/CEO

Bedford Stuyvesant Restoration

Corp.
Brooklyn, NY
Meg HallerCEO
Gary Citywide CDC 
Gary, IN
James Hargrove
Executive Director

Housing Authority of the City 
of Austin
Austin, TXDon HartmanDeputy Director

NHS of Phoenix
Phoenix, AZRoy HastickPresident/CEO

Caribbean American Chamber 
of Commerce & Industry

Brooklyn, NY
Norman HenryPresident

Builders of Hope Community
Development Corp.
Dallas, TXRalph HollmonPresident/CEO

Milwaukee Urban League, Inc.
Milwaukee, WIKevin JacksonExecutive Director

Chicago Rehab Network
Chicago, ILKim JacobsExecutive Director

Westchester Housing FundHawthorne, NY
Erma Johnson-HadleyVice Chancellor forAdministration
Tarrant County College Dist.Fort Worth, TX
Amy KlabenPresident/CEO

Columbus Housing Partnership,
Inc.
Columbus, OHJames KleinExecutive Director

Ohio Community Development
Finance Fund
Columbus, OHChristopher KuiExecutive Director

Asian Americans for Equality
New York, NY
Rhonda LewisPresident/CEO

Bridge Street Development Corp.

Brooklyn, NY
William LinderFounder
New Community Corporation
Newark, NJFred Lucas
President/CEO

Faith Center for Community
Development
New York, NY
Richard Manson
Vice President
LISC
New York, NY
Maria MatosExecutive Director

Latin American Community
Center
Wilmington, DEChristie McCravyDirector of Homeownership

Programs

The Housing Partnership, Inc.
Louisville, KYGhebre Selassie Mehreteab
Co-Chairman & CEO
The NHP Foundation
Washington, DCLuis MirandaChairman
Audubon Partnership for

Economic Development
New York, NY
Marlon MitchellExecutive Director

City of Houston Small Business
Development Corp.
Houston, TX(continued on next page)*Board membership as of January 2005
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
133Andrew J. Mooney
Senior Program Director

Local Initiative Support
Corporation
Chicago, ILRandy Moore
Executive Director

Community Works in West

Virginia, Inc.Charleston, WVGilbert Moreno
President

Association for the Advancement
of Mexican Americans
Houston, TXVincent MurrayExecutive Director

Bagley Housing Association, Inc.
Detroit, MI
Joe MyerExecutive Director

NCALL Research

Dover, DE
Jeremy Nowak
President/CEO

The Reinvestment Fund
Philadelphia, PA
David PaganExecutive Director

Southside United Housing
Development Fund Corp.
Brooklyn, NY
James PaleyExecutive Director

Neighborhood Housing Services
of New Haven
New Haven, CTJohn ParvenskyPresident

Colorado Coalition for the
Homeless
Denver, CO
John Pritschard
President

Community Investment Corp.
Chicago, ILEdwin ReedCFO
Greater Allen Cathedral of NY

Jamaica, NYKathy RicciExecutive Director

Utah Micro-Enterprise Loan Fund

Salt Lake City, UT
Gwen RobinsonPresident/CEO

Hamilton County Community
Action Agency
Cincinnati, OHMarcos Ronquillo
Lawyer
Godwin Gruber, LLP

Dallas, TXClifford Rosenthal
Executive Director

National Federation of
Community Development Credit

Unions
New York, NY
Winston RossExecutive Director

Westchester CommunityOpportunity Program

Elmsford, NY
David ScheckExecutive Director

NJ Community Capital Corp.
Trenton, NJDoris SchniderPresident

Delaware Community Investment

Corp.
Wilmington, DEShirley StancatoPresident/CEO

New Detroit, Inc.

Detroit, MI
Thomas StoneExecutive Director

Mt. Pleasant Now Development
Corporation 
Cleveland, OHValerie ThompsonPresident/CEO

Urban League of Greater

Oklahoma City
Oklahoma City, OK
Carlisle Towery
President

Greater Jamaica Development

Corp.
Jamaica, NYMargaret Trahan
President/CEO

United Way of Acadiana

Lafayette, LATerry Troia
Executive Director

Project Hospitality

Staten Island, NYReginald Tuggle
Pastor
Memorial Presbyterian Church

Roosevelt, NYMark VanBrunt
Executive Director

Raza Development Fund
Phoenix, AZArturo Violante
President

Greater Dallas Hispanic Chamber

of Commerce

Dallas, TXDonna Wertenbach
President/CEO

Community Economic
Development Fund
W. Hartford, CT
Lloyd WilliamsPresident/CEO

Greater Harlem Chamber of

Commerce

New York, NY
Melinda R. Wright
Director

Momentive Consumer Credit

Counseling Service
Indianapolis, INRavi Yalamanchi
CEO
Metro Housing Partnership

Flint, MIDiana Yazzie-Devine
President

Native American Connections
Phoenix, AZCommunity Advisory Board
*(continued)*Board membership as of January 2005
134JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
National Advisory Board
James B. Lee, Jr.
Chairman
National Advisory Board
JPMorgan Investment BankJ.T. Battenberg III
Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive Officer

Delphi CorporationRichard I. Beattie, Esq.
Chairman,
Executive Committee
Simpson Thacher & Bartlett LLPLeon D. BlackFounding Partner
Apollo Management, L.P.
John B. BlystoneAdvisorDavid BondermanFounding Partner
Texas Pacific Group
Richard J. Bressler
Senior Executive Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer

Viacom Inc.Frank A. DÕAmelioExecutive Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer

Lucent Technologies
Nancy J. De LisiSenior Vice President

of Mergers & Acquisitions
Altria Group, Inc.
David F. DeVoe
Chief Financial Officer

News CorporationWilliam T. Dillard II
Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer

DillardÕs, Inc.
Archie W. Dunham
Chairman (Retired)

ConocoPhillipsPaul J. FribourgChairman and
Chief Executive Officer

ContiGroup Companies, Inc.
Charles E. GoldenExecutive Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer

Eli Lilly and CompanyJohn B. HessChairman of the Board

and Chief Executive Officer

Amerada Hess CorporationThomas O. HicksChairman of the Board (Retired)

Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst

IncorporatedJohn W. Kluge
Chairman and President

Metromedia Company
Thomas H. LeeChairman and
Chief Executive Officer

The Thomas H. Lee Partners, LPDavid C. McCourtChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Granahan McCourt CapitalDarla D. Moore
Executive Vice President

Rainwater, Inc.
Patrick J. Moore
Chairman, President

and Chief Executive Officer

Smurfit-Stone Container
CorporationJoseph L. Rice IIIChairman
Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, Inc.David M. RubensteinManaging Director

The Carlyle Group
Stephen A. SchwarzmanPresident and

Chief Executive Officer

The Blackstone Group
Richard W. Scott
Senior Managing Director, 

Head of Global Fixed Income 
AIG Global Investment Group, Inc.
David L. ShedlarzExecutive Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer

Pfizer Inc.Henry R. SilvermanChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Cendant CorporationBarry S. Sternlicht
Executive Chairman
Starwood Hotels & Resorts
Worldwide, Inc.Doreen A. Toben
Executive Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer

Verizon CommunicationsThomas J. UsherChairman 
United States Steel CorporationMortimer B. ZuckermanChairman
Boston Properties, Inc.
Frank Lourenso
Chairman
Regional Advisory Board
Chase Commercial Banking
Philip C. AckermanChairman, President and 

Chief Executive Officer

National Fuel Gas CompanyRichard Bernstein
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

R.A.B. Holdings, Inc.Robert B. CatellChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

KeySpan Energy CorporationEugene R. CorasantiChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

CONMED CorporationEmil DudaSenior Executive Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer

Lifetime Healthcare Company/

Excellus Health Plan Inc.James N. Fernandez
Executive Vice President & CFO

Tiffany & CompanyCharles F. Fortgang
Chairman
M. Fabrikant & Sons, Inc.Gladys GeorgePresident and 

Chief Executive Officer

Lenox Hill HospitalArnold B. Glimcher
Chairman
PaceWildenstein
Lewis GolubChairman of the Board

The Golub CorporationWallace A. GrahamChairman of the Board and Chief

Executive Officer

Schenectady International, Inc.
Joel J. Horowitz
Chairman of the Board

Tommy Hilfiger CorporationThomas H. JacksonPresident

University of RochesterPeter J. KalletChairman, President and 

Chief Executive Officer

Oneida Ltd.Charles A. KrasnePresident and 

Chief Executive Officer

Krasdale Foods, Inc.Richard S. LeFrak
President

LeFrak Organization, Inc.Leo LiebowitzChief Executive Officer

Getty Realty Corp.William L. MackCo-Founder and 
Managing Partner
Apollo Real Estate Advisors L.P.
Theodore Markson
Chairman
Paris Accessories, Inc.Herman I. Merinoff
Chairman of the Board

The Charmer Sunbelt Group
John MorphyChief Financial Officer, 

Secretary and Treasurer

Paychex, Inc.Dennis M. MullenChairman, President and 

Chief Financial Officer

Birds Eye Foods
Michael C. NahlSenior Vice President and 

Chief Financial Officer

Albany International Corp.
Samuel I. Newhouse IIIGeneral Manager
Advance Publications Inc.William C. RudinPresident

Rudin Management Company, Inc.
John ShalamChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Audiovox CorporationArthur T. Shorin
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

The Topps Company, Inc.
Kenneth L. Wallach
Chairman, President and 

Chief Executive Officer

Central National-Gottesman Inc.Fred Wilpon
Chairman
Sterling Equities, Inc.Judith D. ZukPresident

Brooklyn Botanic Garden
Regional Advisory Board
**Board membership as of January 2005
JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
135JPMorgan Chase International Council
‡Hon. George P. Shultz
Chairman of the CouncilDistinguished FellowHoover Institution 
Stanford University
Stanford, California  
Riley P. Bechtel
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Bechtel Group, Inc.

San Francisco, California
Jean-Louis Beffa
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Compagnie de Saint-Gobain
Paris, FranceHon. Bill BradleyAllen & Company 
New York, New York
Michael A. ChaneyManaging Director

Wesfarmers LimitedPerth, AustraliaAndr” DesmaraisPresident and 

Co-Chief Executive Officer

Power Corporation of Canada
Montreal, Canada
Martin FeldsteinPresident and 

Chief Executive Officer

National Bureau of 

Economic Research, Inc.

Cambridge, MassachusettsArminio Fraga NetoFounding Partner
Gavea Investimentos, Ltd.
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
Xiqing GaoVice ChairmanNational Council 
for Social Security Fund
Beijing, PeopleÕs Republic of China
Franz B. HumerChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Roche Holding Ltd.
Basel, SwitzerlandAbdallah S. JumÕahPresident and CEO

Saudi Arabian Oil Company
Dhahran, Saudi ArabiaHon. Henry A. KissingerChairman
Kissinger Associates, Inc.
New York, New York
Mustafa V. Ko“
Chairman of the Board 

of Directors

Ko“ Holding A.S.
Istanbul, Turkey
Hon. Lee Kuan Yew
Minister Mentor
Republic of Singapore

Singapore 
Minoru MakiharaSenior Corporate Advisor and 
Former Chairman
Mitsubishi Corporation
Tokyo, JapanThe Rt. Hon. Brian Mulroney
Senior Partner
Ogilvy Renault
Montreal, Canada
David J. OÕReillyChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

ChevronTexaco Corporation

San Ramon, California
David RockefellerFormer Chairman
The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.
New York, New York 
Sir John RoseChief Executive
Rolls-Royce plc
London, United KingdomWalter V. Shipley
Former Chairman of the Board

The Chase Manhattan
Corporation
New York, New York
Jess S¿derbergPartner and 
Chief Executive Officer

A.P. M¿ller-Maersk Group

Copenhagen, DenmarkWilliam S. Stavropoulos
Chairman of the Board

The Dow Chemical Company
Midland, Michigan Ratan Naval Tata
Chairman
Tata Sons LimitedMumbai, IndiaMarco Tronchetti Provera
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Pirelli & C. SpA

Milan, ItalyCees J.A. van LedeFormer Chairman, 
Board of Management

Akzo Nobel
Arnhem, The Netherlands
Douglas A. Warner III
Former Chairman of the Board

J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.

New York, New York 
Ernesto Zedillo
Director

Yale Center for the Study of Globalization
New Haven, ConnecticutJaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala
President

Ayala CorporationMakati City, Philippines
Ex-Officio Members
William B. Harrison, Jr.
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

JPMorgan Chase & Co.
New York, New York
James Dimon President and 

Chief Operating Officer

JPMorgan Chase & Co.
New York, New York
Andrew Crockett 
President 

JPMorgan Chase International

New York, New York
William M. DaleyChairman of the Midwest Region
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Chicago, IllinoisWalter A. GubertVice ChairmanJPMorgan Chase & Co.
Chairman
JPMorgan Chase EMEA
London, United KingdomThis page has been amended since the Annual Report was printed and presents the International Committee of the Firm as of March
 30,2005.
136JPMorgan Chase & Co./2004 Annual Report
GovernanceOur merger with Bank One Corporation gave us the opportunity to examine the corporate governance practices of both 
companies.By 
corporate governance,we mean the system of checks and balances among the Board of Directors,management 
and stockholdersdesigned to produce an efficiently functioning corporation that is directed to creating long-term stockholder
value,maintaining the highest standards of ethical conduct,reporting financial results with accuracy and transparency,and 
fully complying with all applicable laws and regulations as we conduct the FirmÕs business.We believe we have brought the 

best of both predecessors to the combined FirmÕs governance practices.
The Board
The Board of Directors reflects strong continuity with both predecessors.It has a super-majority of non-management directors 
and only two management members,Mr.Harrison and Mr.Dimon.The Board has determined that all of the non-management

directors are independent under the BoardÕs independence standards.
After the merger became effective,the Board took a fresh look at its structure and practices in its efforts to integrate the 
practices and experience of each predecessor company.
¥The Board determined to maintain the existing Board committee structure with the principal committees consisting of Audit,Compensation & Management Development,Corporate Governance & Nominating,Public Responsibility and Risk Policy.

Each committee reviewed its charter,taking into consideration the charters of corresponding predecessor committees.The 

revised committee charters can be found on our website at www.jpmorganchase.com (Governance).
¥New committee assignments provided for both continuity in oversight as well as the application of new perspectives to the functions of the committees.
¥The Board reviewed and revised its Corporate Governance Principles,retaining best practices from the predecessor 
companies.Among the changes adopted,the Corporate Governance Principles specify limits on other board memberships 

and include a pledge by directors to retain,as long as they serve,all shares of the FirmÕs common stock purchased on 

the open market or received pursuant to their service as a Board member.The Corporate Governance Principles can be 

found at www.jpmorganchase.com (Governance).
Internal GovernanceConnecting the oversight of the Board and the day-to-day functioning of our employees are mechanisms intended to ensure that we conduct our daily business in accordance with the FirmÕs objectives and policies and in compliance with the laws 

and regulations that govern our diverse businesses.JPMorgan Chase operates multiple lines of business through a number of 

subsidiaries throughout the world.The Firm as a whole manages by line of business,supported by global policies and 

standards that typically apply to all relevant units regardless of geography or legal structure.
At the top of our control structure is our risk management process.At JPMorgan Chase,we are all risk managers.Risk 
governance begins with creating the right risk culture,and that is done by ensuring that every employee understands that risk

management and control is the responsibility of each and every individual of the Firm.The FirmÕs risk governance structure is 

built upon the premise that each line of business is responsible for managing the risks inherent in its business activity.As 

part of the risk management structure,each line of business has a Risk Committee responsible for decisions relating to risk 

strategy,policies and control.Where appropriate,the Risk Committees escalate risk issues to the FirmÕs Operating Committee 

or to the Risk Working Group,a subgroup of the Operating Committee.The Board of Directors exercises oversight of risk 

management as a whole and through the BoardÕs Audit Committee and the Risk Policy Committee.
Code of ConductThe FirmÕs Code of Conduct is an important part of our policies and procedures to maintain high standards of conduct and to 
reduce or avoid reputational risk.Our integrity and reputation depend on our ability to do the right thing,even when it is not 

the easy thing.Our commitment to responsible,honest and ethical behavior was at the heart of the codes of conduct of both 

heritage firms and it remains so at JPMorgan Chase today.Following a thorough review,the Firm adopted a new Code of 

Conduct to replace similar policies that existed in our predecessor firms.The Code of Conduct sets forth the guiding principles
 and rules of behavior by which we conduct our daily business with our customers,vendors,stockholders and with our fellow

employees.The Code of Conduct also requires preclearance of outside business activities and,for certain units,preclearance 

of personal securities transactions.The Code of Conduct applies to all employees and directors,who must annually affirm that 

they are in compliance with it.The Code of Conduct is available on our website at www.jpmorganchase.com (Governance).
JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Corporate headquarters
270 Park Avenue
New York,New York 10017-2070

Telephone:212-270-6000
http://www.jpmorganchase.com
Principal subsidiariesJPMorgan Chase Bank,National AssociationChase Bank USA,National AssociationJ.P.Morgan Securities Inc.Annual report on Form 10-K
The Annual Report on Form 10-K of 
JPMorgan Chase & Co.as filed with the

Securities and Exchange Commission 
will be made available upon request to:
Office of the SecretaryJPMorgan Chase & Co.

270 Park Avenue

New York,New York 10017-2070
Stock listingNew York Stock Exchange,Inc.
London Stock Exchange Limited
Tokyo Stock ExchangeThe New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)
ticker symbols for stock of JPMorgan Chase &

Co.are as follows:
JPM (Common Stock)JPMPRH (Depositary Shares EachRepresenting a One-Tenth Interest in 

6 5/8% Cumulative Preferred Stock)Certifications by the Chief Executive Officer,
President and Chief Financial Officer of

JPMorgan Chase & Co.pursuant to Section

302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002,have

been filed as exhibits to the FirmÕs 2004

Annual Report on Form 10-K
The NYSE requires that the Chief Executive
Officer of a listed company certify annually
that he or she was not aware of any violation

by the company of the NYSE's 
CorporateGovernance listing standards.Such 
certificationwas made on June 21,2004.
Financial information about JPMorgan Chase& Co.can be accessed by visiting the Investor

Relations site of www.jpmorganchase.com.

Additional questions should be addressed to:Investor RelationsJPMorgan Chase & Co.

270 Park Avenue

New York,New York 10017-2070

Telephone:212-270-6000
Direct deposit of dividends
For information about direct deposit of dividends,please contact Mellon Investor

Services LLC.Stockholder inquiriesContact Mellon Investor Services LLC:By telephone:  Within the United States,Canada and 
Puerto Rico:1-800-758-4651 

(toll free)From all other locations:1-201-329-8660 (collect) TDD service for the hearing impaired within the United States,Canada and 

Puerto Rico:1-800-231-5469 (toll free) 
All other locations:1-201-329-8354 (collect)By mail:Mellon Investor Services LLC
Overpeck Center
85 Challenger Road
Ridgefield Park,New Jersey 07660-2108
Duplicate mailingsIf you receive duplicate mailings because you have more than one account listing 
and you wish to consolidate your accounts,

please write to Mellon Investor Services 
LLC at the address above.
Independent registered public
accounting firmPricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
300 Madison Avenue

New York,New York 10017
This Annual Report has been printed on paper that is 
produced from raw materials that originated from a com-
bination of well managed forests and post consumer
waste (PCW) recycled fibers.
¥The covers and financial reporting sections (pages 17-136) of this report are printed on paper independently
certified by SmartWood,a
 programof the RainforestAlliance,to the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) stan-

dards and contains 30% PCW.
The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) is an independent
nonprofit organization devoted to encouraging the
responsible management of the worldÕs forests.FSC sets

high standards that ensure forestry is practiced in an
environmentally responsible,socially beneficial,and eco-

nomically viable way.Landowners and companies that 
Directors
To contact any of the Board members pleasemail correspondence to:JPMorgan Chase & Co.
Attention (Board member)
Office of the Secretary
270 Park Avenue,35th Floor

New York,New York 10017-2070
The corporate governance principles of the board,the charters of the principal 

board committees and other governance
information can be accessed by visiting
www.jpmorganchase.com and clicking on

ÒGovernance.ÓStockholders may request 

a copy of such materials by writing to the
Office of the Secretary at the above address.
Transfer agent and registrar
Mellon Investor Services LLCOverpeck Center
85 Challenger Road
Ridgefield Park,New Jersey 07660-2108

Telephone:1-800-758-4651
https://vault.melloninvestor.com/isd
Investor Services Program
JPMorgan Chase & Co.Õs 
Investor ServicesProgram offers a variety of convenient,low-

cost services to make it easier to reinvest 

dividends and buy and sell shares of
JPMorgan Chase & Co.common stock.A
brochure and enrollment materialsmay be

obtained by contacting the Program
Administrator,Mellon Investor Services LLC,

by calling 1-800-758-4651,by writing them

at the address indicated above or by visiting
their Web site at www.melloninvestor.com.
sell timber or forest products seek certification as away to verify to consumers that they have practicedforestry consistent with FSC standards.
¥The remainder of the report (pages 1-16) is printedon
paper made with 20% PCW recycled fibers.
©2005 JPMorgan Chase & Co.All rights reserved.
Printed in the U.S.A.
