Delivering the firm.Annual Report2002
Investment BankJPMorgan Fleming Asset Management and JPMorgan Private Bank are leading fiduciaries
with distinctive strategies. JPMorgan Fleming Asset Management delivers solutions in 

asset management, equity and fixed income and alternative investments to mutual fund

shareholders, investment professional partners 
and institutions. It also serves experienced,self-directed 
investors through the online brokerage unit Brown & Company. JPMorgan
Private Bank delivers customized advice and solutions to wealthy individuals and families. The PrivateBank 
addresses every facet of wealth management, from investment management
and brokerage to tax and estate 
planning, credit, capital raising and specialty-wealth 
advisory services.JPMorgan Partners is the firmÕs principal vehicle for private equity investing. With approxi-

mately $24 billion in total capital under management, JPMorgan Partners invests in a broad

range of industries, including life sciences/healthcare infrastructure, industrial, financial 

services, telecommunications, media and technology. JPMorgan PartnersÕ global integrated

network is composed of its eight offices, industry practice groups, portfolio companies and

JPMorgan Chase industry specialists.Chase Financial Services is a major provider of banking, credit, investment and financing

products and services to consumers and small and middle market businesses throughout the

United States. Nationally, Chase is the only competitor with a top five leadership position in

all three major consumer credit businesses: mortgages, credit cards and auto loans. Chase 

is also the clear market-share leader in the New York tri-state area as a full-service bank for

consumers and businesses, with an additionally strong competitive position in Texas.
JPMorgan Chase at a glance(In millions except ratios)
20022001Operating revenue
$13,541$10,951Operating earnings
2,4901,538Overhead ratio
47%51%JPMorgan is one of the worldÕs leading investment banks as measured by client franchise,
product breadth, geographic reach and revenues. The firm provides clients with a full range

of investment banking and commercial banking products and services: advising on corporate

strategy and structure, raising and placing capital, making markets in financial instruments

and offering sophisticated risk management tools and strategies.
The Investment Bank has offices in more than 50 countries and derives approximately 40% of
its revenues from 
outside the United States, enabling the firm to offer clients truly individualized
solutionssynthesizing industry knowledge, product proficiency and geographic expertise.
JPMorgan Treasury & Securities Services, a global leader in transaction processing and 
information services to wholesale clients, is composed of three businesses. Institutional Trust

Services provides fiduciary services to debt and equity issuers and intermediaries and is the

top trustee for United States debt issues. Investor Services, with $6.3 trillion in assets under
custody, is one of the three largest custodians globally and offers such related services as

securities lending, investment analytics and reporting. Treasury Services provides cash 

management, payments processing, liquidity and trade finance services, processing more

than $1.9 trillion daily, and ranks, as of year-end 2002, as the largest dollar payments

provider in the United States.
Treasury & Securities ServicesInvestment 
Management & Private BankingJPMorgan PartnersChase Financial Services(In millions) 20022001Operating revenue
$(954)$(1,470)Operating losses
(789)(1,116)Overhead ratio
NMNMNM Ð not meaningful(In millions except ratios)
20022001Operating revenue
$2,868$3,226Operating earnings
384479Overhead ratio
81%80%(In millions except ratios)
20022001Operating revenue
$4,046$3,978Operating earnings
677632Overhead ratio
74%76%(In millions except ratios)
20022001Operating revenue
$12,399$14,671Operating earnings
1,3652,918Overhead ratio
64%60%As of or for the year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share and ratio data)
200220012000
Reported basisRevenue $29,614$29,344$33,186
Noninterest expense (excluding restructuring costs)21,55421,07321,642
Merger and restructuring costs
1,2102,5231,431
Provision for credit losses4,3313,1821,380
Net income1,6631,6945,727
Net income per share:Basic0.810.832.99
Diluted0.800.802.86
Cash dividends declared per share
1.361.361.28
Total assets758,800693,575715,348Total stockholdersÕ equity
42,30641,09942,338
Tier 1 capital ratio
8.2%8.3%8.5%
Total capital ratio
12.011.912.0
Tier 1 leverage ratio
5.15.25.4
Operating basis
(a)Revenue $31,053$30,392$33,045
Earnings3,3843,8026,176
(a) Includes credit card receivables that have been securitized.Amounts shown exclude merger and 
restructuring costs,special items and the amortization of goodwill.
Financial highlights1J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report2
2002 was a year of many challenges. Our financial results clearly were 
disappointing, and we have taken actions to improve our short-term 

performance. Through these actions and the fundamental strengths of

JPMorgan Chase, we begin 2003 with a renewed confidence that our 

business model and strategy will produce superior returns over time. 

Let me give you my perspective on what we are doing to realize the full

potential of the firm and to create enduring shareholder value.
We are working through our performance issues.
The transition from 1990s boom to
post-2000 bust in equity markets has created significant challenges for all participants in the investment

banking and investment management businesses. As stock prices fell for the third consecutive year in 2002,

business volumes Ð in activities ranging from underwriting securities to advising on mergers and acquisitions

to managing investment portfolios Ð remained in a depressed state or declined still further. 
No one can predict when a recovery may occur in global capital markets, and we are not holding our
breath until that happens. On several fronts, we have taken steps to raise our level of profitability, regard-

less of external conditions.
Providing credit remains a key strategic weapon, but we will moderate our concentrations, reduce our 
overall exposure and use credit more effectively.
WeÕve also moved to align our investment banking cost structure with the current weak revenue environ-
ment, committing to staff reductions, resizing our business and geographic presence consistent with

near-term opportunities, and taking various belt-tightening measures, all of which are intended to generate

approximately $700 million in gross savings. Exclusive of severance and related costs, we aim to maintain

the overhead ratio of our investment bank at no more than 60% of revenues. We have taken similar steps

in our investment management and private banking businesses to improve the operating margin.
To our shareholders
3J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report
While we believe in the strategic importance of JPMorgan Partners (JPMP) to the firm, we are acting to
reduce the impact of its earnings on the overall firmÕs results. JPMP is exiting selected businesses and invest-
ments that are not central to its operations. JPMP also is increasing the percentage of third-party capital

invested in its core direct investment portfolio, as well as diversifying its portfolio to reduce concentrations

in specific industries, such as telecommunications and technology. Over time, we will reduce total invest-

ments in JPMP to approximately 10% of the firmÕs common stockholdersÕ equity, compared with the 2002

level of approximately 20% and the 2001 level of approximately 23%. 
These actions address the short-term challenges facing us. We are well-prepared for a continuing weak
market environment. When the revenue picture brightens and credit stabilizes, we will be in an excellent

position to take full advantage of the upswing. We have the right long-term strategy to compete and succeed.
Simply put, our strategy is twofold:¥To be a diversified financial services firm with a leadership position in each of our businesses. ¥To provide our clients integrated solutions drawing on a wide variety of products and services.
Diversity is important because financial services are cyclical, with each type of business presenting different
risks at different times. Leadership positions are important because they tend to have the highest return and

attract the best people. And integrated delivery across a broad product set is what our clients want because

of its superior convenience and price efficiency.
There are some who would say that our poor performance in 2002 is proof that this strategy is not effective.
My view is that the strategy is right but that the execution of our strategy was not as good as it should
have been. Judgments based on short-term results often can be inaccurate, and we look to the next several

years to vindicate our view.
Diversification certainly was helpful in 2002. Our consumer banking business, Chase Financial Services,delivered another year of strong performance, with a 24% increase in operating revenues and a 62%

increase in operating earnings, leading to a return on equity of 24%. 
Consumer spending remained strong in the United States in 2002. We were able to capitalize fully on this
opportunity through our leadership franchise in all three national consumer credit businesses Ð credit cards,

home and auto finance Ð and we grew faster than our competitors did in 2002 in both net income and 

revenue. Besides our strength in consumer credit, Chase is the number one primary relationship bank
(based on deposits) for individuals, as well as the number one full-service bank for small businesses, in the
New York tri-state area. Our leading middle market services business provides opportunities across both our

retail and wholesale product array.
Our Treasury & Securities Services business is another source of diversification and earnings stability. With 
a strong return on equity of 23% in 2002, this is a highly attractive part of our wholesale franchise. Strong

expense discipline helped produce an increase of earnings of 7% on a revenue increase of just 2%. This

low revenue growth reflects the challenging conditions in wholesale financial markets.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report4
Regarding investment banking, we know that this is a high-return business over the long term despite
todayÕs poor conditions, and we are well-positioned for a rebound. We take four powerful advantages 

Ð a huge client franchise, broad product capabilities, global presence and intellectual capital Ð and bring

them together for our clients. We have demonstrated that integrated delivery works, holding on to Ð and,

in many cases, gaining Ð market share in spite of the weak economic environment. 
We believe that the winners in investment banking increasingly will be the firms best able to provide 
innovative solutions that draw upon leadership positions in a broad array of products, services and markets.

Through the success of our merger integration efforts, we have become adept in turning this concept of

delivering Òthe whole firmÓ to our corporate and institutional clients into a functioning reality. That is

reflected in a global brand survey on our wholesale businesses released in late 2002, in which we moved up
to second place in the overall category of Òfavorable brand recognitionÓ for investment banking.
Our investment management and private banking businesses offer considerable potential as financial 
markets stabilize. In the face of three years of falling markets, we have reduced annual expenses in this area 

by more than $500 million while preserving the quality and breadth of our investment advice and wealth

management to institutional, high net worth, and retail clients. Our pre-eminence in private banking, 

international mutual funds, and institutional investing in core and alternative assets positions us among the

world leaders in active asset management, with $636 billion of assets under supervision at year-end.
To realize the full power of our business model, we have devoted considerable resources to improving our
efficiency. We have under way a broad range of re-engineering efforts, many using the rigorous methodology

of Six Sigma. In 2002, Six Sigma projects yielded more than $400 million of net benefits, and we nearly

doubled the number of employees with expert Six Sigma certification. We also are leveraging one of our

most important competitive advantages Ð technology. In late 2002, we finalized a groundbreaking, seven-

year outsourcing agreement with IBM Global Services for our technology infrastructure that will create

significant new value for our clients, shareholders and employees.
We are providing greater transparency and accountability.
Any time there is the
spectacle of fraud and corruption, it highlights the need for transparency, accountability and strong corpo-

rate governance. The vast majority of the thousands of public companies in the United States do business in

a fair and honorable way. They recognize that our free market system is highly dependent on trust and that

integrity is a prerequisite for continued survival and growth. As this firmÕs chief executive officer, I welcome

the new requirement that the Chief Financial Officer and I personally certify the firmÕs financial statements. 
JPMorgan Chase always has had a strong commitment to high standards, including a strong, independent
Board, good governance practices and auditor independence. We have been Ð and continue to be Ð a

leader in going well beyond required disclosure, as this 121-page shareholder report demonstrates. We also

have taken steps to strengthen procedural safeguards in a number of areas in 2002. 
Included among the changes we have initiated are: (1) the creation of policy reviews and a senior-level
Policy Review Office to examine complex transactions; (2) the adoption of the ÒInvestment Protection

PrinciplesÓ relating to investment research; (3) the decision to expense options in our own financial state-

ments; (4) the creation of stock ownership guidelines requiring each Executive Committee member to retain

75% of the net shares of stock received from stock grants and options; (5) a prohibition against any new

engagements of the firmÕs external auditors, other than for audit and audit-related services and for tax
5J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report
advice; and (6) the implementation of proposed New York Stock Exchange listing standards for corporate 
governance. Collectively, these changes provide greater transparency for all investors and stricter accounta-

bility in the maintenance of high ethical standards inside this firm. These and other steps we have taken are

discussed in a special section on governance and business practices later in this report.
We are developing a culture focused on performance and leadership.
Our firmÕs principal output Ð the way we add value to the marketplace Ð is delivering financial solutions to
help our clients realize their aspirations and their potential. Our main resource is the depth and breadth of

our intellectual capital in the form of the people who work at JPMorgan Chase. In the long term, therefore, our success rests squarely on their ability to execute Ð making full and effective
use of the tremendous capabilities and talents within the firm.
For our people to maximize these capabilities, great communication, teamwork and leadership are required.
A key tool in this effort is our Leadership Center Ð called LeadershipMorganChase (LMC) Ð which is helping

to foster all three ingredients. Completing its first full year of operation in 2002, LMC engaged nearly 1,000

of the top officers in the firm who went through an extensive program, and an additional 40,000 employees

took part in shorter sessions. The results were impressive. Our 2002 climate survey, which encompasses all

of our employees worldwide, shows significantly higher scores in understanding the strategy, commitment

to the firm and satisfaction for those who have experienced this program. 
Everyone who participates in LMC is encouraged to move out of his or her own comfort zone; to challengeme and other senior leaders; to grapple with real issues; to be innovative and decisive Ð in short, to act as a

leader who takes responsibility for fixing problems and driving the firmÕs vision and strategy.
Looking ahead, my confidence in the firmÕs potential rests solidly on the specific actions that we have taken
and the inherent strengths of our franchise. In 2003, there are good reasons for optimism regarding the

global economic outlook. It appears that inflation has been effectively muted in much of the world. In the

United States, the absence of inflation has been combined with rising productivity, or increasing output per

work hour Ð the best single measure of economic health. Productivity growth in the United States reached

an impressive 4% in 2002. That suggests that transformation of the workplace, fueled by innovation, 

technology and globalization, has not ended or even slowed. By the end of 2003, our economists expect
global growth to return to the 3% annual pace that was the average during 1995 to 2000.
While the stage is being set for sustained, long-term growth, we in this firm are not counting on better
economic or market conditions to trigger much-needed improvement in our own performance. In 2003,

there will be an even greater emphasis on performing in each of our businesses; taking action toward 

specific, measurable goals; and holding people accountable for results. 
We have the right model, the right strategy, and the right people. We will stay the course, with confidence
in our long-term potential. What we need now is better performance and improved execution. That will be

the unrelenting focus of JPMorgan Chase in 2003. 
William B. Harrison, Jr.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

March 3, 2003
Universal Entertainment MasterCard
Drawing on the strengths of their respective brands,
Chase and Vivendi Universal Entertainment launched the Universal Entertainment MasterCard. This 

exclusive co-branded credit card, aimed at entertainment enthusiasts, offers a broad array of rewards

linked to UniversalÕs movies, television, music and theme parks. Chase and Universal also announced a

multi-year alliance naming Chase the official bank for all of the Universal branded theme parks in the

United States.7J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report
In the United States, the firmÕs Chase Financial Services unit enjoyed a
breakout year both financially and competitively as a top-five player in all

three major consumer credit businesses: mortgages, credit cards and auto

finance. Chase is also the leading branch-based bank in the New York

metropolitan area. Additionally, JPMorganÕs Private Bank is recognized

globally as a premier provider of advice and service to high net worth

individuals. Below are some examples of products and services the firm

provided for its individual clients.
Chase Financial ServicesWith nearly a half million new deposit banking customers in 2002 ... total credit card accounts exceeding 29 million (a 22% growth rate over the prior year) ... more than

1.1 million new car loans and leases financed through Chase Auto Finance ... and more than a million

home loan originations financed through Chase Home Finance, Chase Financial Services clearly 

established a nationwide leadership position in financial services for individuals. More than 1.1 million

subscribers to Chase Online experienced for themselves the reasons Forbes.com named ChaseÕs 

customer web site one of its ÒBest of the WebÓ picks for banking, complimenting ChaseÕs range of

online service capabilities Ð from aggregation to free bill payment.
Personal Financial ServicesIn 2002, Chase introduced Personal Financial Services, a new venture
that focuses on meeting the banking and investment needs of its branch banking clients with generally
at least $250,000 in investable assets. A highly skilled team composed of a banker and a personal
advisor provide financial services for PFS customers, accessing a broad array of banking and investment

products. ChaseÕs investment services are centered around the individual customersÕ core financial plan-

ning needs to develop a proper portfolio of equity and fixed income assets. ChaseÕs goal is to change

the way these clients think about combining their investment and banking activities, helping them see
the advantages of using one provider for comprehensive financial solutions and positioning Personal

Financial Services as the best source.
Private Banking ServicesA billionaire entrepreneur with investment holdings in a diverse array of
corporations worldwide decided to enter a new industry. Working in tandem with Middle Market Financial

Services, the Private Bank helped the client fund this new venture with a sizable credit facility. In addition,

the client also retained the Private Bank to manage $80 million in cash management products, includ-

ing short-term bond and money market funds. Currently, the Private Bank is working with the client on

foreign exchange, tax and estate planning, and opportunities to help grow the clientÕs businesses.
How we deliver the firm for: The individualBlackRock Financial Management, Inc.A leading provider of asset management and risk
management services, BlackRock was one of the first clients enrolled in the JPMorgan Priority Client

Program. Priority clients receive the full breadth of the firmÕs resources, including enhanced product

expertise, research, liquidity and access to issuers. The program moves beyond the traditional product-

driven coverage model by focusing the firmÕs many product strengths on the clientÕs various needs.

Through its collaboration with JPMorgan, BlackRock greatly expanded its presence within the credit markets,

using credit derivatives as an investment and risk management vehicle. (Pictured from left to right:

JPMorgan ChaseÕs Jeffrey Flug; BlackRockÕs Chief Investment Officer, Keith Anderson, and Vice Chairman,

Robert Kapito; JPMorgan ChaseÕs George Livingston.)
9J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report
JPMorgan Chase is a leading global provider of products, services 
and advice to investor clients. The firm offers strategic advice, risk 

management, trading, securities lending, custodial services and other
capabilities. Below are some examples of how we work together to

serve our investor client base.OppenheimerFunds, Inc.The Treasury & Securities Services Investor Services team collaborated with
the Investment Bank, Investment Management & Private Banking and Chase Financial Services to
assemble a package of cross-business offerings targeted to OppenheimerFundsÕ unique needs.

OppenheimerFunds responded by expanding its existing relationship with the retail bank and selecting

Investor Services as the custodian for $35 billion ($7.5 billion in global assets) of OppenheimerFundsÕ
more than $120 billion in total assets under management. By providing value-added products to insti-

tutional investors and marketing the firmÕs complete platform, Investor Services has secured a position

as service provider to eight of the top 10 mutual fund companies.
International Paper Company
One of the worldÕs largest paper and forest products companies,
International Paper awarded the management of its $3.5 billion defined contribution plan to

JPMorgan/American Century Retirement Plan Services. Servicing a plan with more than 70,000 partici-

pants, the JPMorgan/American Century team provides a range of products, as well as recordkeeping,

communications and individual investment education services. This investment management mandate
builds on JPMorganÕs long-standing relationship with International Paper, particularly in investment

banking and investment management. In the first year of the mandate, JPMorgan already has man-

aged a major portion of International PaperÕs defined benefit retirement assets through global equity

and fixed income markets, real estate and global balanced investments.
Man Group plcCross-functional partnerships among several areas of JPMorgan succeeded in creating
a first-of-its-kindCollateralized Fund Obligation (CFO) for U.K.-based Man Group, plc, one of the
largest alternative asset managers. This CFO, structured by JPMorgan Securities, invests in a fund of

hedge funds managed and advised by a U.S.-based subsidiary of the Man Group. JPMorganÕs

Institutional Trust Services serves as trustee, paying agent and registrar on the CFO. The securitization

enabled the client to replace existing sources of funding with more efficient capital markets term

financing, and also to offer rated notes in new asset classes to its investor clients. JPMorganÕs ability to

offer an innovative investment opportunity to the fund of hedge funds market is a result of strong

partnerships and overall expertise in the field.How we deliver the firm for: Investors and institutionsNational Grid Transco
The merger of National Grid and Lattice, two of the United KingdomÕs
leading gas and power utility companies, resulted in the creation of National Grid Transco, the countryÕs

largest utility. Acknowledging JPMorganÕs history of strong M&A performance, Lattice named the firm 

as its advisor on the merger. With a combined enterprise value approaching $43 billion and a combined

equity market capitalization of approximately $21 billion, National Grid Transco now is the seventh

largest utility worldwide. (Pictured on the left: Sir John Parker, Chairman, National Grid Transco; Robert

McGuire, JPMorgan Chase.)
11J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report
JPMorgan Chase is a market leader in serving corporations around 
the world. Offering a complete platform of capital raising, advice, trading

and risk management services spanning commercial and investment

banking, the firm serves corporations from offices in more than 

50 countries. Below are some examples of how companies have worked

with JPMorgan Chase to meet their objectives.General Motors CorporationGeneral Motors (GM) selected JPMorgan to serve as joint-lead manager
on an offering of $3.75 billion of senior convertible debentures. Over the past two years, JPMorgan has

advised GM on several M&A transactions, led multiple unsecured and ABS transactions, earned numerous

Treasury & Securities Services mandates, advised on and arranged a $5.0 billion commercial paper conduit
for GMAC Mortgage operations and continued to serve as one of GMÕs largest pension fund managers.
TenarisJPMorgan partnered with the Techint Group to transform its steel pipe business, which is com-
posedof eight 
steel pipe manufacturers around the world, into one leading, global company known as
Tenaris. Drawing on its product proficiency, geographic expertise and global breadth, the firm provided
Tenaris with strategic advice, financing, equity-related products and custody services. Recently, JPMorgan
acted as the exclusive financial advisor to Tenaris on its most important strategic move Ð its listing and

simultaneous global exchange offer in the United States, Argentina, Mexico and Italy for shares of

Tenaris subsidiaries Siderca, Tamsa and Dalmine.
China Eastern AirlinesTreasury Services assisted China Eastern Airlines (CEA) in establishing a global
account structure to facilitate its payment and collection processes in Europe, the United States and

Asia. CEA, an Investment Bank client, sought a global solution that could manage collections, payments

and liquidity requirements. Treasury Services and the firmÕs Shanghai branch worked closely to stream-

line CEAÕs payments processes and profitably invest its surplus funds. The successful outcome for CEA

reflects Treasury ServicesÕ expansion into the Chinese market.
Grupo CinemexGrupo Cinemex is the leading multiplex movie theater operator in Mexico City, 
with a market share of more than 50%. An investment by JPMorgan Partners (JPMP) in Grupo

Cinemex illustrated the firmÕs commitment to portfolio companies through the complete business and

investment cycle. JPMP backed the companyÕs strong management team and proven business model. 

In May 2002, JPMP, along with other shareholders, sold its investment in Cinemex to an investor

group, reporting returns of more than three times its invested capital.
How we deliver the firm for: Corporate clientsBridging the Digital DivideFor many inner-city students, the resources of the Internet and the
educational benefits of computer technology are well beyond their reach. In a unique effort to close the

gap, JPMorgan Chase introduced the ON_DEC (Our Neighborhood Ð Digital Education Community)

Program at the Ditmas Middle School in Brooklyn, N.Y. During the past three years, the firm provided 

PCs, software and training to more than 2,000 students and some 150 staff members. The only require-

ment was that a parent had to attend a computer training session in order to reinforce at home the 

support students received at school. More than 1,700 employee volunteers traveled to student homes 

to set up the computers, linking each to the Internet and to a central ON_DEC website. The program is

bridging the digital divide across a truly global community, as Ditmas students come from 44 countries

and speak 39 different native languages in their homes.
13J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report
Philanthropy and a commitment to corporate social responsibility are
integral parts of the JPMorgan Chase approach to doing business. 

The company has a rich, 200-year heritage of giving back to its many 
communities. Below are some examples of how the firm fulfills its role 

as a corporate citizen and neighbor.
JPMorgan Chase Corporate ChallengeThrough the 2002 
JPMorgan Chase Corporate Challenge¨,the firm donated more than $350,000 to approximately two dozen charities and organizations around

the world. Those dollars will touch lives in many ways. Homeless families in Morristown, N.J., may get 
a chance for a more secure life. Disabled children in Syracuse, N.Y., could enjoy a playground designed

especially for them. Children in Sydney, Australia, may have better odds of beating cancer. A beloved

museum in Frankfurt, Germany, will receive some much-needed restoration work. The donations reflect

a long-standing tradition at JPMorgan Chase to support charities and institutions that contribute to the
overall quality of life in the communities the bank serves.Community DevelopmentJPMorgan Chase is committed to strengthening the communities in which
it does business. Working with community organizations in low- and moderate-income communities,

the FirmÕs Community Development Group finances affordable real estate and mortgages, and small

businesses. In 2002, the firm made more than $1.0 billion in loans and investments for community

development, including major housing projects, day care, shopping centers and other keystones of

community infrastructure. The firmÕs community development efforts mirror the holistic service approach

it offers its clients. An example in Texas is the financing the firm provided for Caf” Mayapan, a Mexican

restaurant in the central El Paso Empowerment Zone. The Community Development Group also collab-
orated with La Mujer Obrera, a nonprofit organization, to provide funding for job training and other

social services for a group of displaced garment workers in El Paso. La Mujer Obrera was able to train

and place those former garment workers in viable positions at Caf” Mayapan.Arts and CultureIn an effort to provide New York-area communities with unique exposure to 
Latin music and art, JPMorgan Chase sponsored ÒSummer NightsÓ at El Museo del Barrio, one of the

cityÕsleading 
Latino cultural institutions. This free concert series Ð featuring stars of jazz, salsa and
other Latin music forms and helping showcase 20th-century Mexican art by Frida Kahlo and Diego
Rivera among others Ð proved to be a true celebration of cultural diversity and artistic expression. 
How we deliver the firm for: The communitySix SigmaLast year, the firmÕs clients and shareholders benefited from Six Sigma Ð a set of tools that guides teams
in understanding what clients need and then helps them meet those needs flawlessly. Emphasizing 

customer-focused operations and rigorous service levels, Six Sigma drove more than $400 million in

financial benefits in 2002. Going forward, the launch of Six Sigma projects is expected to generate 

benefits of up to $1.0 billion per year. Hundreds of projects have benefited from Six Sigma. For example,

Chase Home Finance was keen to retain home equity clients looking for lower rates. Executing a plan

developed through Six Sigma, the Home Finance team began working with eligible customers at the very

moment they inquired about paying off their old loans and automated the approval process for new

loans Ð making it easier to get customers the right rates quickly. The result: Customer retention increased

by 27%, preventing incremental payoffs and improving profitability.
LeadershipMorganChaseJPMorgan Chase is fortified with tremendous depth of intellectual capital Ð a talented team that is 
second to none. How do we put that capital to work in the most effective and dynamic way? How do we 

build an enduring culture focused on clients and performance? One important and measurable effort 

is LeadershipMorganChase (LMC). During 2002, nearly 1,000 senior managers participated in sessions led 

by Chairman Bill Harrison and the Executive Committee on values, ethics, strategy and the development 
of leadership skills. LMC also provided stimulating insights from a wide range of industry leaders. LMC

ÒgraduatesÓ then go on to spread the learning. They have joined together in task forces to resolve 

firm-wide issues and already have hosted sessions with more than 40,000 employees to foster under-

standing of the firmÕs strategy and their role in executing it. The effort to cultivate top talent will continue

in 2003, engaging all employees worldwide.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report16
Table of contentsFinancial:ManagementÕs discussion and analysis:
17Overview
18Results of operations

22Reconciliation from reported results to
operating basis24Segment results

40 Risk and Capital management

41Capital and Liquidity management

45Credit risk management

58Market risk management

63Operational risk management

65Private equity risk management

65Critical accounting estimates used 
by the Firm68Accounting and reporting developments

69Comparison between 2001 and 2000
Audited financial statements:70ManagementÕs report on responsibilityfor
financial reporting 
70Report of independent accountants

71Consolidated financial statements

75Notes to consolidated financial statementsSupplementary information:111Selected quarterly financial data
112Five-year summary of financial highlights

113Glossary of terms
Corporate:115Community Advisory Board

116Regional Advisory Board 

116National Advisory Board

117JPMorgan International Council

118Board of Directors
118Executive Committee

118Other corporate officers

119Report on governance and business practices

121Corporate data and shareholder 
informationThis section of the Annual Report provides

managementÕs discussion and analysis

(ÒMD&AÓ) of the financial condition and
results of operations for JPMorgan Chase.See Glossary of terms on pages 113 and 114

for a definition of terms used throughout

this Annual Report.Certain forward-looking statements
The MD&A contains certain forward-looking

statements. Those forward-looking state-

ments are subject to risks and uncer
tainties,and JPMorgan ChaseÕs actual resultsmay

differ from those set forth in the forward-

looking statements. See JPMorgan ChaseÕs

reports filed with the Securities andExchange Commission for a discussion of
factors that could cause JPMorgan ChaseÕs

actual results to differ materially from those

described in the forward-looking statements.
17J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
J.P. Morgan Chase &Co. (ÒJPMorgan ChaseÓor the ÒFirmÓ)
reported 2002 net income of $1.7 billion, or $0.80 per share,
compared with net income of $1.7 billion, or $0.80 per share, in

2001. The results for the year were negatively affected by sluggish

capital markets, by concentrated exposures in certain segments of

the FirmÕs private equity and commercial credit portfolios, by large

charges related to litigation and by continuing integration expens-

es resulting from the merger of J.P. Morgan and Chase. On the

positive side, the consumer businesses reported record results,

and Treasury & Securities Services (ÒT&SSÓ) had a solid year, high-

lighting the benefits of the FirmÕs diversified business model.
As a result of the FirmÕs balance of businesses, 2002 total reported
revenues of $29.6 billion were up 1% from 2001. The national
consumer credit businesses at Chase Financial Services (ÒCFSÓ) ben-

efited from the low-interest rate environment, with the mortgage

company, in particular, having an exceptional year. T&SS reported

modest revenue growth, as strong gains in Treasury Services and

Institutional Trust Services offset a decline in Investor Services. At

the Investment Bank (ÒIBÓ), the slower-than-expected economic

recovery and diminished investor confidence led to continued
weakness in capital markets activity, which was reflected in lower

trading revenue and investment banking fees. Investment

Management & Private Banking (ÒIMPBÓ) revenues declined as a

result of lower global equity valuations and reduced investor activity;
assets under supervision declined primarily due to market deprecia-

tion and institutional outflows. Deterioration in equity markets

adversely affected JPMorgan Partners (ÒJPMPÓ); write-offs and
OverviewJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co. is a leading global finan-
cial services firm with assets of $759 billion and
operations in more than 50 countries. The Firm

serves more than 30 million consumer customers

and the worldÕs most prominent corporate, institu-

tional and government clients. The FirmÕs whole-

sale businesses are comprised of the Investment

Bank, Treasury & Securities Services, Investment

Management & Private Banking and JPMorgan
Partners. Chase Financial Services is composed of
the FirmÕs retail and middle market businesses.  
Financial performance of JPMorgan ChaseAs of or for the year ended December 31,Over/(under)(in millions,except per share and ratio data)
200220012001
Revenue$29,614$29,3441%
Noninterest expense22,76423,596(4)
Provision for credit losses4,3313,18236
Net income1,6631,694(2)
Net income per share Ð diluted
0.800.80Ñ
Return on average common equity (ÒROCEÓ)
3.9%3.9%Ñbp
Tier 1 capital ratio
8.2%8.3%(10)bp
Total capital ratio
12.011.910
Tier 1 leverage ratio
5.15.2(10)
bp- Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.
write-downs of private holdings and net mark-to-market losses onpublic securities were not offset by cash gains, as financing and exit

opportunities remained constrained.
The FirmÕs total reported noninterest expense declined 4% from
2001 and included several large charges in both years. In 2002,
the costs associated with merger and restructuring initiatives were

$1.2 billion, versus $2.5 billion the previous year. Also in 2002, the

Firm recorded a $1.3 billion charge in connection with the settle-

ment of its Enron-related surety litigation and the establishment of

a reserve related to certain material litigation, proceedings and

investigations and recorded a $0.1 billion charge related to excess

real estate. Excluding the impact of these charges in both years,the FirmÕs full-year 2002 noninterest expense of $20.2 billion was

lower than that of 2001.In addition, in 2002, the Firm announced several programs aiming
to align expense levels with lower revenue prospects. Severance

and related costs from these initiatives added $890 million to

noninterest expense for the year, approximately 70% of which

were in IB. Despite those costs, all business segments reported

lower-to-flat noninterest expenses, except CFS, where higher busi-

ness volumes drove expense growth. IB reduced headcount in line

with lower market activity levels. IMPB has reduced its expense

run-rate by more than half a billion dollars since the beginning of

2001. In T&SS, tight expense management allowed for invest-
ments while keeping expense levels flat with 2001 levels. The
FirmÕs expenses were further reduced by the adoption in 2002 of

SFAS 142, which eliminated the amortization of goodwill.
The provision for credit losses increased 36% from 2001. This
was principally attributable to troubled commercial credits in the

telecommunications and cable sectors, partially offset by a

decrease in the consumer provision.
In addition to analyzing results on a reported basis, manage-
ment looks at results on an Òoperating basisÓ to assess the over-

all Firm and each of its business segments and to facilitate an
estimate of future earnings for the business segments, absent

unusual events. JPMorgan ChaseÕs operating earnings, which

exclude merger and restructuring costs and special items, were 

$3.4 billion, compared with $3.8 billion in 2001. For additional

information and a reconciliation between the FirmÕs reported

and operating results, see pages 22 and 23.
Risk management Management of credit, market, operational and private equity

risk is central to the FirmÕs businesses.
Total nonperforming assets rose to $4.8 billion at December 31,
2002, an increase of 22% from year-end 2001, primarily as a

result of significant and rapid deterioration in credit quality in the
telecommunications, cable and merchant energy sectors. The Firm

established a more stringent exposure review process and lower

absolute exposure limits for industry and single-name concentra-

tions, including investment-grade obligors.ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Market risk parameters across the Firm remained stable, and
trading results were within Value-at-risk (ÒVARÓ) limits through-

out the year.
The Firm continued to develop its self-assessment, operationalrisk-event monitoring and internal control processes to enhance

its operational risk management discipline.The Firm created a Policy Review Office to enhance the proce-
dures it uses to examine transactions with clients in terms of

appropriateness, ethical issues and reputational risk. The Policy

Review Office has intensified the scrutiny of the FirmÕs transac-

tions from the clientÕs point of view, with the goal that these

transactions are not used to deceive investors or others.
Finally, the Firm reviewed the level of private equity risk in its
portfolio and has decided to reduce, over time, the amount of

capital invested in private equity to approximately 10% of the

FirmÕs common stockholdersÕ equity, from approximately 20% 

at December 31, 2002.Capital and liquidity managementAt December 31, 2002, the FirmÕs Tier 1 capital ratio was 8.2%,

compared with 8.3% at year-end 2001. In the third quarter, the

Board of Directors declared its intention to continue the current

quarterly dividend of $0.34 per share on the FirmÕs common

stock, provided that capital ratios remain strong and earnings

prospects exceed the current dividend.
Sound liquidity management remains an important factor in
maintaining the FirmÕs credit ratings. Liquidity management takes

into account the need to fund both on- and off-balance sheet

liabilities and commitments. It seeks to ensure that the FirmÕs

obligations will be met even if access to funding is temporarily
impaired. Although the FirmÕs debt ratings were downgraded

one notch this year to AA-/Aa3 at JPMorgan Chase Bank and to
A+/A1 at the holding company, the FirmÕs funding costs and capi-
tal markets businesses were not materially adversely affected.
Corporate governance 
The Firm has adopted the New York Stock Exchange proposals

relating to corporate governance practices for boards of directors
and has posted the boardÕs practices, as well as charters 

of the principal board committees, on the FirmÕs website,

www.jpmorganchase.com. The Firm seeks to be a leader in 

corporate governance and disclosure practices. 
Business outlookGlobal economic conditions and activity in financial markets are

expected to remain uncertain in 2003. Accordingly, the outlook

for the FirmÕs investment banking and capital markets activities

remains cautious. Earnings improvements in IB are anticipated to
be primarily driven in 2003 by lower credit costs in a still challeng-

ing Ð but stabilizing Ð credit environment and by lower expenses.

At CFS, continuation of the current low-interest rate environment

should enable the credit-related businesses (mortgage, credit card

and auto) to perform well, although it is likely revenues and earn-

ings will be lower than the record set in 2002, which included

large net gains on hedging of mortgage servicing rights (ÒMSRsÓ). Expenses for the Firm in 2003 may be slightly higher than in 2002(excluding from 2002 expenses the impact of the litigation and

merger charges). Expensing stock options, higher pension and
occupancy costs and increased spending (primarily at CFS) are likely

to more than offset the savings anticipated from IB right-sizing 

initiatives and lower severance costs. Despite this cautious view for the short term, the Firm remains com-
mitted to its diversified business model and believes that it is well

positioned to produce higher returns when economic conditions

improve and capital markets recover.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report18
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Results of operationsThis section discusses JPMorgan ChaseÕs results of
operations on a reported basis. The accompanying

financial data conforms with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles (ÒGAAPÓ). The section should
be read in conjunction with the financial statements

and footnotes beginning on page 71.Year ended December 31,
Over/(under)(in millions)200220012001
Investment banking fees$2,763$3,612(24)%
Trading revenue 2,5944,918(47)
Fees and commissions10,7569,48113
Private equity Ð realized gains (
losses)(105)651NM
Private equity Ð unrealized 
gains (losses)(641)(1,884)66
Securities gains1,56386680
Other revenue 1,15889829
Net interest income 11,52610,8027
Total revenue$29,614
$29,3441%
NM-Not meaningful.
RevenuesInvestment banking fees were 24% lower than last year, reflect-
ing the industry-wide slowdown in corporate M&A activities
and new issuance of debt and equity securities. Advisory fees of
$756 million were 39% lower than last year, and underwriting

fees for debt and equity instruments of $2.0 billion were 15%

lower than last year. For a table that breaks out investment

banking fees, see Note 4 on page 77, and for a further discus-

sion on these revenues, see the IB 
results on pages 26Ð28. 
The 47% decline in trading revenue was primarily attributable to
the challenging market conditions that persisted throughout 2002. 
19J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Equity markets declined substantially, contributing to lower client
activity and revenues, primarily in equity derivatives. Also con-

tributing to lower equity trading results was a shift in the classifi-

cation of broker-dealer trading revenues, from Òtrading rev-

enuesÓ in 2001 to Òbrokerage and investment services feesÓ in

2002. Beginning in 2001, bid and offer prices on Nasdaq stocks

were quoted in dollars and cents, instead of fractions of whole

dollars. As a result, in 2002, JPMorgan Chase began to negotiate

with its institutional clients commission-based pricing structures

that would support the costs of delivering enhanced brokerage

services in connection with their Nasdaq trades. Revenues earned

from agreed-upon commissions are now recorded as Òbrokerage

and investment servicesÓ within Fees and commissions.Fixed income trading revenues declined 33% from last year, as
lower portfolio management results, primarily in interest rate trad-

ing, offset an overall increase in client activity.
Trading revenue, on a reported basis, excludes the impact of net
interest income related to IBÕs trading activities; this income is

recorded within Net interest income. However, in assessing the 
profitability of IBÕs trading business, the Firm combines these rev-

enues for segment reporting. For a table that breaks out trading

revenues, see Note 3 on page 76, and for a further discussion onthese revenues, see the IB results on pages 26Ð28.
Fees and commissions Fees and commissions were $10.8 billion in 2002, an increase of
13% from last year, reflecting the following:
¥Mortgage servicing fees were $298 million, compared with a loss
of $230 million in 2001, stemming from the favorable impact of

Chase Home FinanceÕs hedging of MSRs. In 2002, hedging gains

resulting from wider mortgage swap spreads and a favorable
interest rate environment were significantly greater than the off-

setting impairment of the MSRsÕ value. For a further discussion of
these fees, see the Chase Home Finance discussion on page 36.¥Credit card revenue of $2.9 billion was a record for the Firm.
Revenues were 36% above 2001, reflecting the positive impact

on servicing fees from the growth in securitized receivables man-

aged by Chase Cardmember Services; average securitized receiv-

ables grew by more than $8.5 billion. The increase in credit card

revenue also reflected the impact of the Providian acquisition,
higher late charges and higher interchange income as a result of

increased purchase volume. For a further discussion of credit card

business revenues, see page 37.
¥Other lending-related service fees increased 10%, a result of
higher standby letter-of-credit fees from new business vol-

umes. Also contributing to the increase were higher auto loan

servicing fees, the result of increased securitizations in 2002.
¥Deposit service fees were 10% above 2001. Lower interest rates
reduced the value of customersÕ compensating deposit balances;consequently, customers paid increased fees for deposit services. 

Also contributing to the increase were higher cash management
fees, primarily at Treasury Services, reflecting growth in payment
processing volumes from institutional clients. 
These fees and commissions were offset by lower investment man-
agement, custody and processing service fees. These fees were down

5% to $3.8 billion in 2002, primarily a result of the lower value of

equity-related assets under supervision at IMPB, as well as lower fees

earned at T&SS from non-U.S. assets under custody. Both investment

management and custody fees were affected by the decline in the

value of assets under supervision and assets under custody, respec-

tively, as these fees are generally calculated as a percentage of the

total market value of the assets. Also contributing to the lower fees
was the market-driven slowdown in securities lending, as well as a
decrease in processing service fees for unit investment trusts. 
Brokerage and investment services declined slightly, despite the
aforementioned reclassification into this line of approximately

$100 million of broker-dealer revenues related to Nasdaq transac-

tions. The decline was the result of reduced trading volume and

narrower spreads on brokerage transactions.
For a table showing the components of Fees and commissions, seeNote 4 on page 77.Private equity gains (losses)Aggregate private equity losses (realized and unrealized) totaled

$746 million in 2002, reflecting the continuing difficult capital

markets environment. The private equity markets offered limited

exit opportunities and constrained financing, thereby depressing

realized gains. Further, the results in 2002 reflected net mark-to-
market losses on public securities, as well as write-downs and
write-offs on private holdings, particularly in the telecommunica-

tions and technology sectors.  For a further discussion of private

equity gains (losses), see JPMP results on pages 33Ð34.
Securities gainsSecurities gains of $1.6 billion were up 80% from last year. Of these

gains, $1.1 billion was attributable to the FirmÕs available-for-sale

(ÒAFSÓ) investment securities portfolio, which was favorably posi-
tioned in a lower interest rate environment. The balance was directly

related to the hedging of MSRs that offset impairment charges due
to mortgage prepayments. For a further discussion of securities

gains, see both the IB and Chase Home Finance discussions on
pages 26Ð28 and 36, respectively.
Other revenue
The increase in Other revenue of $260 million reflected the following:
¥Increased revenues from residential mortgage origination and
sales activities, to $671 million in 2002 from $576 million in

2001, were driven by the surge in loan applications and origina-

tions. The growth in originations allowed for larger volumes of

loan sales and securitizations. For a further discussion of this rev-

enue, see Chase Home Finance on page 36.J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report20
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
¥Unfavorable valuation adjustments were $36 million, compared
with $177 million in 2001. The adjustment in 2002 was related

to residual positions held after the completion of loan syndica-

tions and commercial real estate loan securitizations. These resid-

ual positions are recorded at the lower of cost or market value.

The higher negative valuation adju
stments in 2001 primarily relat-
edto loans in the technology and telecommunications sectors. For a table that breaks out Other revenue, see Note 4 on page 78.
Net interest income
Net interest income (ÒNIIÓ) rose 7% to $11.5 billion, compared
with $10.8 billion in 2001. The primary contributors to the
increase were the significant growth in average consumer loans,

which were 7% higher than last year, and higher trading-related

NII. These were offset by a decline in commercial loans and the

narrowing of spreads in the deposit businesses.
Average consumer loan volume grew, benefiting from low inter-
est rates, as well as the acquisition in February 2002 of the
Providian Master Trust, including $7.9 billion of credit card receiv-

ables and related relationships. Total average credit card receiv-

ables rose 11% to $21.6 billion; of this amount $4.8 billion relat-

ed to Providian. NII at Chase Home Finance increased due to

higher average available-for-sale mortgage loans, higher spreads

and lower asset funding costs.NII related to commercial loans declined, the result of lower 
outstanding volumes. At the same time, spreads narrowed, reflect-

ing the reduction in interest rates. Also contributing to the decline

was the higher level of nonperforming loans. Nonperforming com-
mercial loans rose 84% to $3.7 billion. For a further discussion of

nonperforming loans in the commercial portfolio, see page 47.
A portion of the FirmÕs NII relates to trading-related
assets. In 2002,this component was $1.9 billion, compared with $1.4 billion in

the prior year. The increase was attributable to the change in the

composition of trading assets and improved spreads. 
On an aggregate basis, the FirmÕs total average interest-earning assets
for 2002 were $555 billion, compared with $547 billion last year. The

net interest spread on these assets, on a fully taxable-equivalent basis,

was 2.09% in 2002, 10 basis points higher than last year. 
Year ended December 31,Over/(under)(in millions)200220012001
Compensation expense$10,983$11,844(7)%
Occupancy expense1,6061,34819
Technology and communications expense
2,5542,631(3)
Amortization of intangibles323729(56)
Other expense4,7884,5216
Surety settlement and litigation reserve
1,300ÑNM
Merger and restructuring costs1,2102,523(52)
Total noninterest expense $22,764$23,596(4)%
NM- Not meaningful.ExpensesCompensation expenseCompensation expense in 2002 was $11.0 billion, 7% lower thanlast year, and included severance costs of $746 million associated

with expense initiatives undertaken during the year. In 2001, sever-

ance related to the merger of J.P. Morgan and Chase and other

previously announced restructuring programs was recorded within

Merger and restructuring costs. The decline reflected reductions in

staffing levels, as well as lower incentives reflecting the lower level

of earnings. The amounts accrued for incentives are subject to

managementÕs discretion and to calculations that correlate incen-

tives with income before incentives. 
Expense-management programs had a significant impact in IB
and, to a lesser extent, IMPB, the two business segments whose
revenues were most negatively affected by the downturn in the
economy. As a result, these two segments reduced the number of

employees in their businesses. Also contributing to the decline in
expenses was the reversal of previously accrued expenses of $120

million related to forfeitable stock-based compensation awards

issued under employee benefit plans. The awards contained stock

price targets that were deemed unlikely to be attained within the

timeframes specified under the terms of the awards.
The decline in compensation expense was partially offset by 
the hiring of new employees at expanding business segments,
primarily CFS and T&SS. The total number of full-time equivalent employees atDecember 31, 2002, was 94,335, compared with 95,812 at the

prior year-end. Although overall levels remained relatively stable,

headcount in IB and IMPB was reduced by approximately 3,100

full-time equivalent employees, whereas in CFS headcount

increased by more than 2,400.
The Firm reviews the actuarial assumptions for its pension and
other postretirement benefit plans on an annual basis. To reflect

the decline in market interest rates during 2002, the year-end

discount rate for the FirmÕs U.S. plans was set at 6.50%, a 75-

basis point decline from the prior year. Additionally, considering

the current mix of plan assets, the year-end assumed long-term

rate of return was adjusted downward to 8.00% for both U.S.

pension plan assets and other postretirement benefit plan

assets, from 9.25% and 9.00%, respectively. The assumed long-

term rate of return is a blended average of the FirmÕs investment

advisorÕs projected long-term (10 years or more) returns for vari-

ous asset classes. The impact of these changes is expected to
increase 2003 U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit

expenses by approximately $60 million. Additionally, the adverse

effect of losses on U.S. plan assets is expected to further

increase U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit expenses

by approximately $70 million. In 2002, these expenses included

curtailment charges and special termination benefits totaling
$64 million resulting from management-initiated and outsourc-

ing-related employee terminations. Actuarial assumptions for

the FirmÕs various non-U.S. plans also were adjusted to reflect

local market conditions. The impact of these changes on non-21J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit expenses is not
expected to be material. For further information on postretirement

employee benefit plans, see Note 23 on pages 94Ð96.Occupancy expense Occupancy expense rose 19% from last year, partly the result of a

$98 million charge in the third quarter of 2002 to cover the costs

of exiting excess vacant premises on the West Coast of the United

States, principally in the San Francisco area. Also contributing to

the increase was the leasing of additional space in New Jersey and

in midtown Manhattan, partly necessitated by the relocation of

certain functions at the beginning of the year from a previously-

owned building in downtown Manhattan. The Firm expects 2003
occupancy costs to increase by approximately $150 million due to

the move to midtown Manhattan, extra safety measures and

higher anticipated real estate taxes in New York.
Technology and communications expenseThe decline in Technology and communications expense was pri-
marily attributable to an initiative to rationalize and reshape the

FirmÕs technology infrastructure. This initiative resulted in

reduced spending for software, equipment and workstations.
Additionally, the technology sourcing process was streamlined in

favor of a select list of preferred vendors, resulting in additional

expense reductions. The impact of these initiatives was partially

offset by the higher amortization of capitalized software, as well

as expenditures to enhance the telecommunications network.
Amortization of intangiblesAmortization of intangibles declined 56% from 2001. The decline

primarily reflected the implementation of SFAS 142, which now

requires a periodic review of goodwill for impairment rather than
the amortization of goodwill, as was the case last year. This was

partly offset by the impact of the acquisition of the Providian

Master TrustÕs credit card 
relationship intangibles. In 2002, there
were no impairments recognized on goodwill recordedon the

Consolidated balance sheet. For a discussion on the impact of
SFAS 142 on the FirmÕs amortization of intangibles expense and

the expected level of expense for 2003, see Note 14 on page 89.Other expenseOther expense increased 6% in 2002 compared with 2001 as a

result of the following (for the table showing the componentswithin Other expense, see Note 6 on page 79):¥Professional services expense increased $164 million from 2001,
primarily as a result of legal fees. Also contributing to the

increase was the hiring of professionals who assisted in the col-

lection of credit card accounts 
and fees paid by IBfor sub-advisor
services fora fund 
in Europe. These incremental expense items
were partly offset by lower systems consultant costs. 
¥Higher outside services expense of $106 million was driven bythe costs of servicing the Providian credit card portfolio and
processing higher mortgage servicing volume. During a transi-
tion period, from the acquisition in February until August 2002,

Providian Financial Corp. provided servicing for the portfolio.
¥Higher marketing expense of $88 million principally stemmedfrom direct-marketing campaigns for credit cards.
These expense increases were partially offset by lower travel and
entertainment expense of $42 million.Surety settlement and litigation reserve 
The $1.3 billion charge in 2002 reflected the settlement of the

Enron-related surety litigation and the establishment of a litigation

reserve. On January 2, 2003, the Firm announced it had settled itsdispute with 11 insurance companies that had issued surety bonds

that guaranteed obligations of Enron Corp. (ÒEnronÓ) under pre-

paid commodity forward contracts. The Firm settled for 60% of

the principal amount of the bonds and received a cash payment of

$502 million and $75 million of unsecured claims. In connection

with this agreement Ð and one additional, ongoing lawsuit related

to a prepaid contract backed by a letter of credit Ð the Firm took a

pre-tax charge of $400 million (approximately $260 million after-

tax). The Firm also established a $900 million reserve (approximately

$600 million after-tax) related to litigation and regulatory matters

involving Enron, as well as other material legal actions, proceed-

ings and investigations in which it is involved.Merger and restructuring costs
During 2002, the Firm incurred merger and restructuring costs of

$1.2 billion, a 52% decline from 2001. Refer to the discussion of

compensation expense on page 20 for a description of other sev-
erance costs incurred in 2002 and to Note 6 on page 78.
Provision for credit losses 
The Provision for credit losses increased $1.1 billion or 36% from

the prior year, primarily reflecting higher charge-offs of loans and

lending-related commitments in the telecommunications and

cable sectors. The consumer provision decreased 21% from last

year reflecting growth in credit card securitizations, partially off-

set by the impact of the Providian acquisition. In 2002, the Firm

increased the allowance for credit losses by $443 million (by

making provisions in excess of net charge-offs), compared with

an $850 million increase in the allowance last year. For further

information on the Provision for credit losses, see page 56. 
Income tax expenseJPMorgan Chase recognized income tax expense of $856 million in

2002, compared with $847 million in 2001. The effective tax rate

was 34% in 2002, versus 33% last year. The increase in the effec-

tive tax rate was principally attributable to the level of income in
certain state and local tax jurisdictions in 
2002. For a further dis-cussion of income taxes, see Note 22 on pages 93 and 94.J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report22
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
The Firm prepares its financial statements using U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles (ÒGAAPÓ). The financial state-
ments prepared in accordance with GAAP appear on pages

71Ð74 of this Annual Report. That presentation, which is referred

to as Òreported basis,Ó provides the reader with an understand-

ing of the FirmÕs results that can be consistently tracked from

year to year and enables a comparison of the FirmÕs perform-

ance with other companiesÕ GAAP financial statements.In addition to analyzing the FirmÕs results on a reported basis,
management looks at results on an Òoperating basisÓ to assess

each of its businesses and to measure overall Firm results
Reconciliation from reported results to operating basis
against targeted goals. The definition of operating basis starts
with the reported GAAP results and then excludes the impact of

merger and restructuring costs, credit card securitizations, the

amortization of goodwill and special items (which management
defined during 2002 as significant nonrecurring gains or losses

of $75 million or more). Both restructuring charges and special

items are viewed by management as transactions that are not

part of the FirmÕs normal daily business operations or are unusual

in nature and therefore are not indicative of trends.
The following summary table provides a reconciliation between
the FirmÕs reported and operating results: 
20022001Year ended December 31,ReportedCreditSpecialOperating
ReportedCreditSpecialAmortizationOperating
(in millions,except per share data)
results(a)card
(b)items(c)Reclassesbasis
results(a)card(b)items(c)of goodwill(d)Reclassesbasis
Consolidated i
ncome statementRevenue:Investment banking fees$2,763$Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$2,763
$3,612$Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$Ñ$3,612
Trading revenue(e)2,594ÑÑ1,8804,474
4,918ÑÑÑ1,3616,279
Fees and commissions10,756(698)ÑÑ10,058
9,481(340)ÑÑÑ9,141
Private equity Ð
gains (losses)(746)ÑÑÑ(746)
(1,233)ÑÑÑÑ(1,233)
Securities gains1,563ÑÑÑ1,563
866ÑÑÑÑ866
Other revenue1,158(36)ÑÑ1,122
898(17)ÑÑÑ881
Net interest income(e)11,5262,173Ñ(1,880)11,819
10,8021,405ÑÑ(1,361)10,846
Total revenue29,6141,439ÑÑ31,053
29,3441,048ÑÑÑ30,392
Noninterest expense:Compensation expense(f)10,983ÑÑ(746)10,237
11,844ÑÑÑÑ11,844
Noncompensation expense(f)(g)10,571Ñ(1,398)(144)9,029
9,229ÑÑ(585)Ñ8,644
Merger and restructuring costs1,210Ñ(1,210)ÑÑ
2,523Ñ(2,523)ÑÑÑ
Severance and related costs
(f)ÑÑÑ
890890
ÑÑÑÑÑÑ
Total noninterest expense22,764Ñ(2,608)
Ñ20,15623,596Ñ(2,523)(585)Ñ20,488
Operating margin
6,8501,4392,608
Ñ10,8975,7481,0482,523585Ñ9,904
Credit costs4,3311,439ÑÑ5,770
3,1821,048ÑÑÑ4,230 
Income before income tax expense and effect of accounting change2,519Ñ2,608Ñ5,127
2,566Ñ2,523585Ñ5,674
Income tax expense856Ñ887Ñ1,743
847Ñ833192Ñ1,872
Income before effect of 
accounting change1,663Ñ1,721Ñ3,384
1,719Ñ1,690393Ñ3,802
Net effect of change in accounting principleÑÑÑÑÑ
(25)Ñ25ÑÑÑ
Net income$1,663$Ñ$1,721$Ñ$3,384
$1,694$Ñ$1,715$393$Ñ$3,802
Earnings per share Ð diluted$0.80$Ñ$0.86$Ñ$1.66
$0.80$Ñ$0.86$0.19$Ñ$1.85
(a)Represents condensed results as reported in JPMorgan ChaseÕs financial statements.
(b)Represents the impact of credit card securitizations.For securitized receivables,amounts that normally would be reported as 
net interest income and as provisions for credit losses are reported as noninterest revenue.
(c)Includes merger and restructuring costs and special items.For a description of special items,see Glossary of terms on page 1
14.(d)Prior-period operating earnings for 2001 have been adjusted by adding back goodwill amortization to report results on a basi
s comparable with 2002.For further explanations,see page 23.
(e)On an operating basis,JPMorgan Chase reclassifies trading-related net interest income from Net interest income to Trading re
venue.
(f)The Compensation and Noncompensation expense categories include severance and other related costs associated with expense co
ntainment programs implemented in 2002.For purposes of
reviewing results on an operating basis,these costs have been reclassified to a separate line.
(g)Includes Occupancy expense,Technology and communications expense,Amortization of intangibles,Other expense and Surety settle
ment and litigation reserve.
23J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
As previously mentioned, operating results exclude the impact of
credit card securitizations. JPMorgan Chase periodically securi-

tizes a portion of its credit card portfolio by selling a pool of

credit card receivables to a trust, which issues securities to

investors. When credit card receivables are securitized, the Firm

ceases to accrue the related interest and credit costs; instead,

the Firm receives fee revenue for continuing to service those

receivables and additional revenue from any interest and fees on
the receivables in excess of the interest paid to investors, net of

credit losses and servicing fees. As a result, securitization does

not change JPMorgan ChaseÕs reported or operating net income;

however, it does affect the classification of items in the

Consolidated statement of income. The Firm also reports credit costs on a ÒmanagedÓ or Òoperat-
ingÓ basis. Credit costs on an operating basis are composed of

the Provision for credit losses in the Consolidated statement of

income (which includes a provision for credit card receivables on

the Consolidated balance sheet) as well as the credit costs asso-

ciated with securitized credit card loans. As the holder of the

residual interest in the securitization trust, the Firm bears its
share of the credit costs for securitized loans. In the FirmÕs GAAP

financial statements, credit costs associated with securitized

credit card loans reduce the noninterest income remitted to the

Firm from the trust. This income is reported in Credit card rev-

enue in Fees and commissions over the life of the securitization.Commencing January 1, 2002, the Firm adopted SFAS 142 and,
accordingly, ceased amortizing goodwill. There was no impairment

of goodwill upon adoption of SFAS 142. Prior-period operating

earnings have been adjusted by adding back amortization of good-

will to report results on a basis comparable with 2002.
The following table provides a reconciliation of earnings per share
(ÒEPSÓ) based on the FirmÕs reported net income to EPS calculated

on an operating basis.Year ended December 31,Over/(under)(per share data)200220012001
Net income$0.80
$0.80Ñ%
Amortization of goodwill (net of taxes)Ñ0.19NM
Special items (net of taxes):
Merger and restructuring costs0.400.85(53)
Real estate charge
0.03ÑNM
Surety settlement and litigation reserve
0.43ÑNM
Net effect of change in accounting principleÑ0.01NM
Operating earnings$1.66
$1.85(10)%
NM-Not meaningful.
For a five-year trend of the FirmÕs results on an operating basis, 
see page 112. All years are calculated on a basis using the same

definition for operating results. 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report24
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Segment results
Operating basis
Treasury &Investment Management
Investment BankSecurities Services& Private Banking
Year ended December 31,Over/(under)Over/(under)Over/(under)
(in millions,except ratios)
20022001(b)20022001(b)20022001(b)Operating revenue
$12,399(15)%$4,0462%$2,868(11)%Operating expense
7,978(9)3,001Ñ2,336(9)Operating margin
4,421(25)1,0458532(19)Credit costs2,3921081(86)85143Operating earnings (losses)
1,365(53)6777384(20)Average common equity
18,323(3)2,99816,115(3)Average managed assets
494,958(3)18,018(4)35,729(3)Shareholder value added
(853)NM31315(357)(26)ROCE7%(800)bp23%200bp
6%(200)bpOverhead ratio
6440074(200)81100(a)Includes support units and the effects remaining at the corporate level after the application of management accounting polic
ies.
(b)Prior period amounts have been adjusted to conform with current methodologies.

bp-Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.

NM-Not meaningful.Segment results
The wholesale businesses of JPMorgan Chase are known globally as ÒJPMorganÓ and are com-

prised of the Investment Bank, Treasury &

Securities Services, Investment Management &
Private Banking and JPMorgan Partners. The
retail and middle market businesses are known
as ÒChaseÓ and make up Chase Financial Services. JPMorgan ChaseÕs segment results reflect the manner in which
financial information is currently evaluated by the FirmÕs manage-

ment. The Firm allocates equity to its business units utilizing a risk-

adjusted methodology, which quantifies credit, market and opera-

tional risks within each business and, for JPMP, private equity risk.

For a discussion of those risks, see the Risk management section on

pages 45Ð65. The Firm allocates additional equity to its businesses

incorporating an Òasset capital taxÓ on managed assets and someoff-balance sheet instruments. In addition, businesses are allocated
equity equal to 100% of goodwill and 50% for certain other intan-

gibles generated through acquisitions. The Firm estimates the port-

folio effect on required economic capital based on correlations of

risk across risk categories. This estimated diversification benefit is

not allocated to the business segments.
The Firm uses the shareholder value added (ÒSVAÓ) framework to
measure performance of its business segments. To derive SVA for

its business segments, the Firm applies a 12% (after-tax) cost of

equity to each segment, except JPMP; this business is charged a

15% (after-tax) cost of equity. The capital elements and resultant

capital charges provide the businesses with the financial framework

to evaluate the trade-off between the use of capital by each busi-

ness unit versus its return to shareholders. Capital charges are an

integral part of the SVA measurement for each business. Under the

FirmÕs economic capital model, economic capital is overallocated to
Product type:*Advisory*Debt & equityunderwriting*Market making, trading & investing:- Fixed income 
- Treasury

- Equities*Corporate lending Businesses:*Investment Management*Private BankingBusinesses:*Institutional Trust
Services*Investor Services*Treasury ServicesBusinesses:*Home Finance*Cardmember Services
*Auto Finance*Regional Banking *Middle Market*Private equity investmentsJPMorgan ChaseInvestment Management& Private BankingJPMorgan PartnersTreasury& Securities ServicesJPMorgan is the brand name.
Chase is the brand name.
Investment BankChase Financial Services25J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
the business segments, as compared with the FirmÕs total common
stockholdersÕ equity. The revenue and SVA impact of the overalloca-

tion is reported in Support Units and Corporate. (See Glossary of

terms on page 114 for a definition of SVA and page 39 for more

details).In allocating the allowance (and provision) for credit losses, each
business is responsible for its credit costs, including actual net

charge-offs and changes in the specific and expected components

of the allowance. The residual component of the allowance, avail-

able for losses in any business segment, is maintained at the corpo-
rate level. Management views the residual component as necessary

to address uncertainties at December 31, 2002, primarily in the

commercial portfolio.
The segment results also reflect revenue- and expense-sharing
agreements between certain lines of business. In 2002, agreements
between Treasury Services and Middle Market were revised, and
prior periods have been restated to conform to the current pres-

entation. Revenues and expenses attributed to their shared activi-

ties are recognized in each line of business, and the double 

counting is eliminated at each of the segments (e.g., Treasury &

Securities Services and Chase Financial Services). These arrange-
ments promote cross-selling and management of shared client

expenses. They also ensure that the contributions of both busi-

nesses are fully recognized.
Prior-period segment results have been adjusted to reflect alignment
of management accounting policies or changes in organizational
structure among businesses. Restatements of segment results may

occur in the future. 
See Note 33 for further information about JPMorgan ChaseÕs five
business segments.Segment results (continued)
Operating basis
ChaseJPMorgan PartnersFinancial ServicesJPMorgan Chase
(a)Year ended December 31,Over/(under)Over/(under)Over/(under)
(in millions,except ratios)
20022001(b)20022001(b)20022001(b)Operating revenue
$ (954)35%$13,54124%$31,0532%Operating expense
29826,4211420,156(2)Operating margin
(1,252)297,1203310,89710Credit costsÑÑ3,159105,77036Operating earnings (losses)
(789)292,490623,384(11)Average common equity
5,454(16)10,2931341,368ÑAverage managed assets
10,210(16)179,40410759,8761Shareholder value added
(1,614)231,242189(1,631)(31)ROCENMNM24%700bp8%(100)bpOverhead ratio
NMNM 47(400)65(200)$(3,000)$0$3,000$6,000$9,000$12,000$15,000Operating revenue 
(in millions)Contribution of businesses Operating earnings (losses) 
(in millions)$14,671$12,399$3,978$4,046$3,226$2,868$10,951$13,541$(1,470)$(954)$(1,000)$0$1,000$2,000$3,000$2,918$1,365$632$677$479$384$1,538$2,490$(1,116)$(789)   2001   2002   2001   2002(15)%IB2%T&SS(11)%IMPB35%JPMP24%CFS% changeBusiness(53)%IB7%T&SS(20)%IMPB29%JPMP62%CFS% changeBusinessJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report26
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
JPMorgan Chase is one of the worldÕs leading
investment banks, as evidenced by the breadth

of its client relationships and product capabilities.

At the center of the Investment BankÕs franchise

are extensive relationships with corporations,

financial institutions, governments and institu-

tional investors worldwide. The Firm provides a

full range of investment banking and commercial

banking products and services, including advising

on corporate strategy and structure, capital rais-

ing in equity and debt markets, sophisticated risk
management and market-making in cash securi-
ties and derivative instruments in all major capi-
tal markets. The Firm also commits its own capi-
tal to proprietary investing and trading activities

to capture market opportunities.
Financial results overview
Performance at the Investment Bank (ÒIBÓ) is influenced bynumerous factors, including global economic conditions and

their impact on capital markets and IBÕs clients. Changes in mar-

ket share, risks and expenses can also impact financial perform-

ance. The year 2002 presented a challenging economic and
Investment BankSelected financial dataYear ended December 31,(in millions,except ratios
Over/(under)and employees)200220012001
Operating revenue$12,399
$14,671(15)%
Operating expense:
Compensation expense3,9525,286(25)
Noncompensation expense3,4393,496(2)
Severance and related costs
587ÑNM
Total operating expense
7,9788,782(9)
Operating margin4,421
5,889(25)
Credit costs2,392
1,148108
Operating
earnings$
1,365$2,918(53)%
Average common equity
$18,323$18,964(3)%
Average assets
494,958510,282(3)
Shareholder value added
(853)615NM 
ROCE7%15%(800)bp
Overhead ratio
6460400
Overhead ratio (excluding severance 
and related costs)6060Ñ
Compensation as % of revenue (excluding severance and related costs)
3236(400)
Full-time equivalent employees
14,83717,619(16)%
bp-Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.
NM-Not meaningful.
000102
Operating revenue
(in millions)000102
Operating earnings
(in millions, except ratios)ROCE% 19% 15% 7%
$1,000$0$0$2,000$3,000
$4,000$3,522$2,918$1,365$5,000$10,000$15,000$15,692$14,671$12,399credit environment for investment banking. In response, IB
increased its focus on the management of credit and market

risks, as well as the management of staffing and expense levels.

While the outlook for 2003 remains uncertain, IB believes it is

well positioned to improve results as economic conditions and

the capital markets recover. 
Reflecting the difficult market environment in 2002, IBÕs operating
margin declined 25% from last year. Operating revenue declined

15%, driven by a reduction in capital markets and lending rev-

enue and in investment banking fees. This was partially offset by

a 9% decline in operating expenses. Credit costs rose to $2.4 bil-

lion in 2002. The lower operating margin together with higher
credit costs resulted in 
operating earnings
of $1.4 billion, adecline of 53% from 2001.
Operating revenue
of $12.4 billion consisted of investmentbanking fees for advisory and underwriting services; capital 
markets revenue related to market-making, trading and invest-

ing, and corporate lending activities.Investment banking feeswere 25% lower than last year.
Advisory revenues declined 40%, reflecting lower global

announced M&A volumes. Underwriting and other fees declined
17%, reflecting lower levels of debt underwriting following

record levels in 2001 and lower loan syndications. Equity under-
writing revenues were down from last year, reflecting decreased

market volumes, partially offset by increased market share.
The Firm maintained its No. 2 ranking in underwriting U.S.investment-grade bonds and its No. 1 ranking in global loan syn-dications.It 
also improved its ranking and market share in U.S.
equity and equity-related underwriting. In addition, the Firm fin-

ished the year ranked No. 5 in global announced M&A.IBÕs 
Capital markets and lendingactivities are comprised of
four primary areas:
27J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Over/(under)Year ended December 31,200220012001
Business revenue:
Investment banking feesAdvisory$743
$1,248(40)%
Underwriting and other fees1,9532,343(17)
Total $2,696$3,591(25)%
Capital markets and lendingFixed income$5,417$6,215(13)%
Treasury1,8391,52121
Credit portfolio1,4431,09232
Equities1,0042,252(55)
Total $9,703$11,080(12)%
Operating revenue$
12,399$14,671(15)%
Capital markets and lending total return revenue Fixed income$5,394$6,301(14)%
Treasury1,51495059
Credit portfolio1,4431,09232
Equities1,0042,252(55)
Total $9,355$10,595(12)%
activities are managed on a total-return revenue basis. This rep-
resents total operating revenues plus the unrealized gains or
losses on third-party or inter
nally transfer-priced assets and liabil-ities in fixed income and treasury activities,which are not
accounted for on a mark-to-market basis through earnings.
Capital markets and lending total-return revenues were $9.4 bil-
lion, down 12% from 2001. Fixed income total-return revenues

of $5.4 billion decreased 14% from 2001, driven by lower port-

folio management results related to market-making activities

and lower results within proprietary risk-taking activities, which

offset higher client trading activities. Offsetting the total-return

revenue decline was the performance of Global Treasury, which
produced strong retur
ns in fixed income markets. GlobalTreasuryÕs total-return revenues of $1.5 billion were up 59% from
last year. Credit portfolio revenues were $1.4 billion, up 32%

from 2001; losses rela
ted to exposure to Enron and Argentina
depressed
2001 results. The 55% decline in Equities from 2001 to
$1.0 billion was attributable to lower portfolio management
results in equity derivatives and lower client revenues. On an oper-
ating revenue basis, Capital Markets revenues of $9.7 billion in

2002 were 12% below 2001.
Fixed incomeincludes revenues from market-making activities
and from portfolio management and proprietary risk-taking

activities across the complete range of global fixed income 

markets (including government and corporate debt, foreign

exchange, interest rate and commodities markets).
Treasuryactivities include managing the FirmÕs overall interest
rate exposure and investment securities activities. Assets, liabili-

ties and capital are transfer-priced to Global Treasury to reduce

the sensitivity of business segment results to changes in interest

rates. Global TreasuryÕs activities complement, and offer a

strategic balance and diversification benefit to, the FirmÕs trad-

ing activities.Credit portfolio
revenues include net interest income, credit-
related fees and loan sale activity for the Investment BankÕs com-
mercial credit portfolio. Additionally, Credit portfolio revenues

reflect changes in the Credit Valuation Adjustment (ÒCVAÓ),
which is the component of the fair value of a derivative that
reflects the credit quality of the counterparty (see page 51 of
Credit risk for a further discussion of the CVA). Credit portfolio

revenues also include the results of single-name and portfolio
hedging activity used to manage the credit exposures arising from

the FirmÕs lending and derivative activities. (See pages 50Ð53 of

Credit risk for a further discussion on credit derivatives). Credit

portfolio revenues also reflect any market gains or losses related

to assets received as part of a loan restructuring.
Equitiesincludes revenues from market-making activities,
including portfolio management and proprietary risk-taking in

cash instruments and derivatives, across the complete range of

global equity markets.IB evaluates its capital markets and lending activities by consid-ering all revenues related to these activities. These revenues

include trading, fees and commissions, securities gains and relat-

ed net interest income and other revenues. In addition, these
2002 Selected industry awards
*Derivatives house of the year ÐRisk Magazine*Interest rate derivatives house of the year Ð
Risk Magazine
*Credit derivatives house of the year Ð
Risk Magazine*Structured finance house of the year Ð
The Banker*WorldÕs best debt house Ð
EuromoneyMarket shares and rankings
(a)20022001December 31,Market shareRankingMarket shareRanking
*Global syndicated loans23%#1
27%#1
*U.S.investment-grade bonds
16#2
14#2
*Euro-denominated corporate
international bonds6#4
7#3
*Global equity & equity-related5#8
4#9
*U.S.equity & equity-related(b)6#6
4#8
*Global announced M&A15#5
22#4
(a)Derived from Thomson Financial Securities Data.Global announced M&A based on
rank value;all others based on proceeds,with full credit to each book manager/equal
if joint.Because of joint assignments,market share of all participants will add up to

more than 100%.(b)U.S.equity and equity-related adjusted to reflect all equity issuances in the U.S.market
for both U.S.and non-U.S.issuers.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report28
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
By client segment Dimensions of 2002 revenue diversification
Media and telecommunications 15%General industries
35%Financialinstitutions
50%By business revenues
Europe/
Middle East 
and Africa 
27%Asia/Pacific
10%LatinAmerica4%NorthAmerica 
59%By geographic region
Treasury 15%Advisory6%Underwriting fees 16%Equitycapital markets
8%Creditportfolio11%Fixed incomecapital markets

44%initiatives intended to improve efficiency as well as enable selec-
tive strategic investment. These initiatives, which began in the
fourth quarter of 2002, are expected to generate approximately

$700 million of savings and result in a reduction in staffing lev-

els of more than 2,000, as well as a reduction in consultants

employed by the Firm. Severance and other costs related to

these initiatives are estimated at approximately $450 million,

with $293 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 2002 

and the remaining costs to be recognized in 2003. Another

$294 million of severance and related costs recorded in 2002

related to initiatives announced earlier in the year. In a revenue
environment similar to 2002, and with credit costs substantially

lower than in 2002, these initiatives would enable the
Investment Bank to target a return on equity of 12% in 2003. 
Credit costs
increased 108%, reflecting significantly higher
charge-offs, primarily in the telecommunications and cable sec-

tors, and provisions in excess of charge-offs. For a further dis-

cussion, see Credit Risk Management on pages 45Ð57. 
Operating expensedeclined 9% from 2001 and included
$587 million of severance and related costs associated with

expense-management initiatives. Excluding these costs, expenses
would have been down 16%, with compensation costs down
25% and noncompensation costs down 2% from 2001. The

decline in compensation costs r
eflected lower incentive compen-sation, as well as the impact of lower staffing levels. Lower non-

compensation costs reflected declines in travel and entertainment

costs and lower technology and communications costs, partially
offset by higher legal costs. Including the severance and related

costs, the overhead ratio for 2002 was 64%, compared with

60% in 2001. Excluding the severance and related costs, the

overhead ratio was 60% in 2002. In October 2002, IB completed a review of all major businesses.
The analysis underscored the value of the FirmÕs integrated 

business model, the breadth of its product offerings and the

strength of the client franchise. To improve financial perform-

ance under current market conditions, IB announced a series of
29J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Financial results overview
Treasury & Securities Services (ÒT&SSÓ) operating earnings
increased 7% over 2001 and delivered a return on equity of

23%. Expense discipline mitigated a weak revenue environment.

Revenue growth of 2% was limited by weakness in the econo-

my and financial markets. Operating revenue
increase of 2% was driven by growth at
Institutional Trust Services (ÒITSÓ) of 14%. Growth came mainly

from new business volumes in global securities clearance and

securitization services. Acquisitions also provided growth, most

notably Systems & Services Technologies, Inc., a third-party and

backup servicer specializing in subprime auto receivables, which

generated $40 million of new revenue in 2002. Revenue at

Treasury Services rose 5% on higher revenues associated with
middle market customers, increased volumes, new product ini-

tiatives and higher balance deficiency fees. Revenue at Investor
Services contracted 9% as the value of assets held in custody
and, consequently, fees declined. Foreign exchange revenue

dropped, along with securities lending activity due to reduced

market activity. Also contributing to the decline were higher

deposit balances in 2001 following the events of September 11,
as clients looked to depository institutions to hold cash funds.Across all business units, low interest rates have reduced earnings

from the value of deposits linked to transaction processing. T&SS

results for 2002 included a pre-tax gain of $50 million on the sale
of the FirmÕs interest in Centrale de Livraison de Valeurs Mobilieres

(ÒCEDELÓ), an overseas securities clearing firm. Treasury & Securities ServicesTreasury & Securities Services, a global leader intransaction processing and information services

to wholesale clients, is composed of three busi-

nesses. Institutional Trust Services provides a

range of fiduciary services to debt and equity
issuers and broker-dealers, from traditional

trustee and paying-agent functions to global
securities clearance. Investor Services provides

securities custody and related functions, such as

securities lending, investment analytics and
reporting, to mutual funds, investment man-agers, pension funds, insurance companies and

banks worldwide. Treasury Services provides

treasury and cash management, as well as pay-

ment, liquidity management and trade finance
services, to a diversified global client base of cor-
porations, financial institutions and governments.
Selected financial dataYear ended December 31,(in millions,except ratios
Over/(under)and employees)200220012001
Operating revenue$4,046
$3,9782%
Operating expense3,001
3,006Ñ
Operating margin1,045
9728
Credit costs1
7(86)Operating earnings$677
$6327%
Average common equity
$2,998$2,9581%
Average assets
18,01818,794(4)
Shareholder value added
31327215
ROCE23%21%200bp
Overhead ratio
7476(200)
Assets under custody (in billions)$6,336$6,2641%
Full-time equivalent employees
14,41614,367Ñ
bp- Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.
000102
Operating revenue
(in millions)$0$1,000$2,000$3,000$4,000$3,930$3,978$4,046000102
Operating earnings
(in millions, except ratios)ROCE% 23% 21% 23%
$0$200$400
$600
$800$671$632$677J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report30
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Non-bank financial institutions 
48%Large corporates24%Middle market
11%Public sector/ Governments 5%Banks 12%(a) Represents relationships as a percentage of revenues  (b) Includes North America, Latin America and the Caribbean 
Asia 8%   The Americas 
(b) 67%Europe, 

Middle East & Africa 

25%Investor 
Services 
38%Institutional Trust Services
22%TreasuryServices 39%Other  1%Dimensions of 2002 revenue diversification
By business revenues
By client segment (a)By geographic region
Operating expensewas virtually flat to 2001, despite higherexpenses related to acquisitions. 
During 2002, T&SSachieved
expense reductions through productivity and quality initiatives,

including Six Sigma and selected staff reductions. In addition,

Investor Services restructured its expense base in response to the

weak revenue environment. Despite low revenue growth, the

overhead ratio for T&SS was 74%, compared with 76% in 2001.
League Table #1 Rankings
*U.S. dollar clearing and commercial payments
*U.S. corporate debt trusteeship*Securities lending*CHIPS, Fedwire, ACH origination
*U.S. commercial paper issuing and paying agent
*American depositary receipts
*U.S. provider of non-indigenous Euro clearing services
Treasury ServicesInvestor Services*Treasury and cash management*Payment and liquidity management*Trade finance services*Securities custody*Related services:-Securities lending-Investment analytics and reporting
-Fund accountingTreasury & Securities Services*Debt issuing and payment services*Securities settlement and clearing*American depositary receipts
*Specialty trust services
Institutional Trust Services
31J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Investment Management & Private BankingJPMorgan Fleming Asset Management provides
investment management services to private- and
public-sector institutional investors, high net
worth individuals and retail customers across asset

classes and global markets. JPMorgan Private Bank
provides personalized advice and solutions to

wealthy individuals and families. Assets under
supervision (ÒAUSÓ) totaled $636 billion.Financial results overview
Investment Management & Private Banking (ÒIMPBÓ) operatingearnings
are influenced by numerous factors, including global
economic conditions, equity and fixed income asset valuations,
investor activity levels and investment performance. Global eco-
nomic conditions remained weak in 2002. In addition, poor

investor sentiment driven by the uncertain economic outlook
and concerns surrounding corporate governance weighed heavily

on the financial markets. These factors led to significantly
depressed equity markets (the S&P 500 index declined 23% for

the year 2002) and reduced levels of investor activity across

IMPBÕs private banking and retail client bases. In response to

these challenges, IMPB undertook restructuring and productivity

programs and reduced incentives, without impairing its core

capabilities. IMPB is well positioned to enhance earnings when

economic conditions improve.
Selected financial dataYear ended December 31,(in millions,except ratios
Over/(under)and employees)200220012001
Operating revenue$2,868
$3,226(11)%
Operating expense2,336
2,570(9)
Credit costs85
35143
Pre-tax margin447
621(28)
Operating earnings$384
$479(20)%
Average common equity
$6,115$6,275(3)%
Average assets
35,72936,896(3)
Shareholder value added
(357)(284)(26)
ROCE6%8%(200)bp
Tangible ROCE2023(300)
Overhead ratio
8180100
Pre-tax marginratio
(a)1619(300)
Full-time equivalent employees
7,7938,162(5)%
(a)Measures the percentage of operating earnings before taxes to total operating revenue.
bp-Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.
000102
Operating revenue
(in millions)000102
Operating earnings
(in millions, except ratios)ROCE% 11% 8% 6%
$0$200$400$600$711$479$384$0$1,000$2,000
$3,000
$4,000$4,024$3,226$2,868(a)(a)(a) These pro forma results assume that the purchase of Flemings occurred at the beginning of 2000. 
$5,000$800Operating revenue
of $2.9 billion was 11% lower than lastyear. Investment Management operating revenues of $1.5 
billiondecreased 11% from the prior year
, reflecting the 
impact of equitymarket depreciation and institutional outflows across all asset classes.

During the third quarter of 2002, Brown & Co., the FirmÕs spe-
cialty online brokerage unit, was transferred from CFS to IMPB as

part of the FirmÕs strategy to grow its retail asset management

business. (All prior periods have been restated to reflect the reor-

ganization.) Private Banking operating revenues of $1.4 billion decreased
12% from 2001. Net interest income decreased 15%, reflecting

the Private BankÕs smaller loan portfolio and lower deposit 

balances, as well as narrower interest rate spreads. Fees from

assets under management declined as a result of equity market

depreciation and client outflows in the early part of 2002.

Brokerage commissions declined as Private Banking clients 

executed fewer transactions. Leadership positions:
*No. 1 private bank in the United States and No. 3 globally based on AUS*Awarded 
Global FinanceÕs ÒBest Asset Management BankÓ *Awarded 
Worth MagazineEditorÕs choice as ÒBest U.S. private bankÓ
*No. 5 institutional asset management worldwide ÐPensions & Investments*Relationships with nearly 40% of the individuals listed in the Forbes billionairesÕ
global list*No. 4 provider of global money market funds 
ÐiMoneyNetJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report32
Assets under supervision(a)Over/(under)At December 31,(in billions)
200220012001
Client segment:Private banking 
$129$142(9)%
Institutional 324405(20)
Retail63597
Assets under management516606(15)
Custody/restricted stock/brokerage/deposits
120150(20)
Assets under supervision $636$756(16)%
Geographic region:
Americas$362$442(18)%
Europe and Asia
154164(6)
Assets under management516606(15)
Custody/restricted stock/brokerage/deposits
120150(20)
Assets under supervision $636$756(16)%
Product class:
Fixed income and cash$297$329(10)%
Equities and other219277(21)
Assets under management516606(15)
Custody/restricted stock/brokerage/deposits
120150(20)
Assets under supervision $636$756(16)%
(a)Excludes AUM of American Century Companies,Inc.
Operating expensedecreased 9%, reflecting the full-year 
benefit of merger and other programs initiated in 2002, as well

as reductions in performance-related incentives due to lower

earnings. Severance and related costs associated with expense

initiatives announced in 2002 were $47 million. There were no

such costs in 2001.The increase in 
credit costs
of $50 million was concentrated in asmall number of U.S. private clients. Assets under supervisionat December 31, 2002, were 
$636 billion, a decline of 16% from the prior year-end. AUS rep-

resent assets under management (ÒAUMÓ), as well as custody,
restricted stock, deposit and brokerage accounts. 
Assets undermanagementrepresent assets actively managed by IMPB on
behalf of private banking, institutional and retail clients. AUM 

at December 31, 2002, declined 15% from the prior year-end

primarily due to equity market depreciation and institutional out-

flows, offset by an increase in
 retail mutual fund assets. Custody,
restricted stock, deposit and brokerage accounts,which are
lower-fee products than AUM, declined 20%. The diversification

of AUS across client segments, 
geographic r
egions and product
classes helps to mitigate the impact of market volatility on rev-

enues. The Firm has a 45% interest in American Century

Companies, Inc., whose AUM totaled $72 billion and $89 billion
at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
 Americas $447 / 70%Europe/Asia
$189 / 30%AUM - Fixed  
income and 
cash  
$297 / 47%Custody, restricted stock, brokerage,
deposits  $120 / 19%Institutional 
$341 / 54%Retail$63 / 10%Private
Banking$232 / 36%AUM - Equitiesand other  $219 / 34%(a) Assets under supervision represent assets under management as well as custody, restricted stock, deposit and brokerage acco
unts.
Diversification of IMPB's $636 billion of assets under supervision at December 31, 2002 (a)($ in billions)By product class
By client segmentBy geographic region 
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
33J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Financial results overview
JPMorgan Partners (ÒJPMPÓ) faced a challenging year in 2002,resulting in negative operating revenue
of $954 million andoperating lossesof $789 million. Opportunities to realize value
through sales or initial public offerings (ÒIPOsÓ) of investments

were limited, because of constrained M&A and IPO markets. In

addition, JPMP recorded negative valuation adjustments in

investments concentrated in telecommunications and technology,

industries that continue to face poor operating conditions and
limited financing opportunities. Private equity losses totaled $733 million in 2002, consisting of losses of $647 million in direct investments and $150 million

in private funds, partially offset by $64 million in gains from

portfolio hedging activities. Realized cash gains of $563 million declined 45% from the previ-
ous year due to limited exit opportunities. Realized cash gains were

recognized across all industries but were primarily harvested from
investments in the industrial and consumer sectors. JPMorgan PartnersJPMorgan Partners, the global private equityorganization of JPMorgan Chase, provides equity

and mezzanine capital financing to private 
companies. It is a diversified investor, investing 

in buyouts, growth equity and venture opportu-

nitiesacr
oss a variety of industry sectors, with
the objective of creating long-term value for

the Firm and third-party investors. 
Selected financial dataYear ended December 31,(in millions,except ratios
Over/(under)and employees)200220012001
Operating revenue$(954)
$(1,470)35%
Operating expense298
2932
Operating margin(1,252)
(1,763)29
Operating losses$(789)
$(1,116)29%
Average common equity
$5,454$6,475(16)%
Average assets
10,21012,143(16)
Shareholder value added
(1,614)(2,097)23
Full-time equivalent employees
36132013
JPMPÕs realized gains were more than offset by net write-offs (real-
ized losses) and write-downs (unrealized losses) of $1.1 billion.

These write-downs and write-offs included $621 million from the

technology, media and telecommunications (ÒTMTÓ) sector, which

continues to suffer from an industry-wide contraction. JPMP also

recorded unrealized losses of $210 million from mark-to-market
losses on its public portfolio, largely in TMT. 
JPMPÕs operating revenue also includes third-party management
fees and net revenue allocated to or from other JPMorgan Chase

business segments. Investment pace, portfolio diversification and capital under managementIn 2002, increased emphasis was placed on leveraged buyouts
and growth equity opportunities. JPMPÕs direct investment pace

for the FirmÕs account in 2002 was essentially flat with 2001 at

$950 million, with investment activity primarily related to buyouts.

More than 60% of the total direct investment activity was in the

industrial growth and life sciences/healthcare industry sectors. 
Private equity gains (losses)Year ended December 31,Over/(under)(in millions)200220012001
Realized gains (losses):Cash gains$563$1,030(45)%
Write-offs(654)(355)(84)
Subtotal(91)675NM
Unrealized gains (losses):
Public mark-to-market
(a)(210)(520)60
Private write-downs
(432)(1,338)68
Subtotal(642)(1,858)65
Private equity gains (losses)(b)$(733)$(1,183)38%
(a)Includes mark-to-market and reversals of mark-to-market due to public securities sales.
(b)Includes the impact of portfolio hedging activities.

NM-Not meaningful.
JPMPinvestment portfolio
December 31,2002 (in millions)
Carrying valueCost
Public securities (101 companies)
(a)$520$663
Private direct securities (945 companies)
5,8657,316
Private fund investments (324 funds)
(b)1,8432,333
Total investment portfolio$8,228$10,312
(a)Quoted public value was $761 million at December 31,2002.
(b)Unfunded commitments to private equity funds were $2.0 billion at December 31,2002.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report34
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
JPMPÕs diversified private equity portfolio by industry group
(a)% of carrying value as of December 31, 2002 and 2001
01    
        02
(a) Represents JPMPÕs total investment portfolio by industry.
$2.5$0.7$2.0$1.1   Public         Private 
2001    200201  
          02
01    
        02
01    
        02
01    
        02
01  
          02
01  
          02
Telecommunications,
media & technologyLife sciences/Healthcare infrastructure
Industrialgrowth
Consumer retail
& servicesReal estateFinancial servicesFunds$1.5$0.7$2.2$1.0$0.4$0.4$0.6$0.6$1.9$1.810%0%20%30%Amounts above the bars represent the carrying values of the investments.  
(in billions)The industry group percentages in the accompanying table are based on the carrying values of JPMPÕs private equity portfolio as
 of December 31, 2002  
and 2001. In terms of dollar amounts, some industry sectors have the same, or lower, carrying values at year-end 2002 as compar
ed with year-end 2001,  
but these sectors comprise a higher percentage of the total carrying value of the 2002 portfolio than they did in 2001. This is
 the result of the lower total  carrying value of the JPMP portfolio as of December 31, 2002.
During 2002, several factors contributed to improved diversifica-
tion. At December 31, 2002, the portfolio was $8.2 billion, a
reduction of $1.0 billion from year-end 2001, primarily due to a
decline in TMT investments. At the end of 2002, TMT invest-
ments were $1.5 billion, or 18%, of the total portfolio, com-

pared with $2.5 billion, or 27%, of the portfolio at year-end

2001. Industrial growth investments have increased to 27% of

the portfolio as of December 31, 2002, from 22% at the end of

2001, reflecting increased investment in industrial buyout activity

during 2002.At December 31, 2002, JPMPÕs public securities portfolio was
$520 million, a 48% decline from 2001 and less than one-sixth

of the $3.4 billion public securities balance at December 31,
1999. The 2002 decline resulted from lower market valuations

and from accelerated sales of public securities that were not

subject to restrictions. These sales of public securities reduced
the earnings volatility created by this portfolio segment.
Although 2002 reflected a reduction in the amount of publicly-

held securities in JPMPÕs portfolio, this portion of the portfolio

could increase significantly, both in dollar amount and as a pro-

portion of the total portfolio, due to changes in equity market
prices and IPO opportunities available to portfolio companies.Currently, there are limited sales and financing activity in private
equity markets, constraining realization opportunities.
The Firm continues to regard JPMP as a strategic business that 
will create value over the long term. JPMP is seeking to reduce or

exit selected businesses and investments that are not central to its

operations with the goal that, over time, JPMPÕs private equity

portfolio will be reduced from approximately 20% of the FirmÕs

common stockholdersÕ equity as of December 31, 2002, to
approximately 10%.
35J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Chase Financial ServicesChase Financial Services is a major provider of
banking, investment and financing products and

services to consumers and small and middle market
businesses throughout the United States. The

majority of its revenues and earnings are pro-

duced by its national consumer credit businesses,

Chase Home Finance (ÒCHFÓ), Chase Cardmember

Services (ÒCCSÓ) and Chase Auto Finance (ÒCAFÓ).
It also serves as a full-service bank for consumers
and small- and medium-sized businesses through

Chase Regional Banking (ÒCRBÓ) and Chase Middle

Market (ÒCMMÓ). Financial results overview
Chase Financial Services (ÒCFSÓ) operating earnings
increased
62% to a record $2.5 billion in 2002. Shareholder value added

almost tripled to $1.2 billion, and return on common equity

increased to 24% from 17% last year. Revenue growth of 24%

reflected high business volumes across all consumer credit busi-
nesses and significant gains in Home Finance on the hedging of
MSRs, partially offset by the negative impact of lower interest rates

on deposits. Expenses increased 14% as a result of higher business

volumes, partially offset by Six Sigma and other productivity

efforts. The overhead ratio improved in 2002 to 47%, down

from 51% in 2001. Credit costs increased, primarily due to 

higher average loans.
The Firm anticipates that CFS operating revenue and earnings will
be lower in 2003 due to reduced MSR hedging gains and the

impact of declining interest rates on its deposit businesses.
$3,000$0$6,000$9,000$12,000$15,000$3,000$0$6,000$9,000$12,000$15,000000102
$10,059$10,951$13,541Operating revenue
(in millions)$0$500$1,000$1,500$2,000$2,500000102
$1,638$1,538$2,490Operating earnings(in millions, except ratios)ROCE% 19% 17% 24%
Operating revenue
exceeded $13.5 billion in 2002, an increase
of 24% from 2001. The national consumer credit businesses

drove the revenue increase. Home Finance revenues increased

73% over the prior year, driven by strong mortgage originations

and gains on the hedging of MSRs. Credit card revenues

increased 34% due to the Providian acquisition, lower funding

costs and higher purchase volume. Auto Finance revenues grew
26%, drivenby 
originations of over $25 billion and lower fund-ing costs. Middle Market revenues increased 4%, driven by

growth in average deposit volume and higher fees for deposit

services; the low-interest rate environment reduced the value of

customersÕ deposit balances and, consequently, increased deposit

fees. Regional Banking revenues declined 9% on lower deposit

spreads resulting from lower interest rates, partially offset by

higher deposit volume. Operating expenserose 14% to $6.4 billion. The increase
reflects the acquisition of the Providian Master Trust, growth in
consumer credit business volumes, higher incentive costs on bet-

ter business results and higher credit card marketing expenditures.

Partially offsetting these increases were almost $250 million in

expense savings achieved through Six Sigma and other productivity
efforts.
The overhead ratio improved to 47% from 51% a year
ago, as a result of both revenue increases and expense initiatives.
Credit costs
,on a managed basis, increased 10%, driven by a
23% increase in credit card receivables, including the Providian

portfolio. Credit quality of the card portfolio remained relatively

stable, the result of proactive credit risk management and

enhanced collections initiatives. CFS increased its allowance for

credit losses in 2002 by $233 million, primarily due to the

Providian acquisition. Higher securitizations, however, mitigated

the increase in the allowance. For a further discussion of the

consumer credit portfolio, see pages 54Ð55.
Selected financial dataYear ended December 31,(in millions,except ratios
Over/(under)and employees)200220012001
Operating revenue$13,541
$10,95124%
Operating
expense6,4215,61714
Operatingmargin7,120
5,33433
Credit costs3,159
2,87310
Operating
earnings$
2,490$1,53862%
Average common equity
$10,293$9,11813%
Average managed assets
179,404162,75310
Shareholder value added
1,242430189 
ROCE24%17%700bp
Overhead ratio
4751(400)
Full-time equivalent employees
43,60741,1956%
bp-Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report36
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
CHF is the fourth-largest mortgage originator and the fourth-largest mortgage servicer in the United States, with more than 4

million customers. In 2002, CHF capitalized on a record year for

the U.S. mortgage industry as historically low interest rates con-

tributed to higher production volumes and favorable margins.

CHF experienced its own record year, with total revenues and

operating earnings increasing 73% and 136%, respectively,

demonstrating CHFÕs strength in both origination and servicing. 
During 2002, CHF successfully shifted its origination growth into
higher-margin business sectors. Loan originations in these higher-

margin sectors (i.e., retail, wholesale, telephone-based and 

e-commerce) contributed to a record $113 billion in origination

volume, an increase of 30% over 2001. As part of this increase in

origination volume during 2002, home equity, a strategic growth

area, rose 52% to $14 billion. CHFÕs correspondent-negotiated

business, a lower-margin sector, was down 56% to $43 billion,

due to pricing and market conditions. Low interest rates also con-

tributed to the increase in revenue through improved net interest

margins. In 
2003, CHF will continue its initiatives to retain cus-
tomers considered likely to refinance.
In mortgage servicing, lower interest rates led to high prepayment
levels, which resulted in the accelerated amortization and impair-

ment of MSRs.In 2002, CHF partnered with the FirmÕs Global

Treasury Group to manage the interest rate sensitivity of MSRs.
Global Treasury managed the risk exposure of the MSRs through a

series of derivatives (e.g., a combination of swaps, swaptions and
floors) and AFS securities that increased in value when interest

rates declined. During 2002, MSR valuation adjustments of $4.1
billion were more than offset by $4.7 billion in gains on deriva-

tives, realized gains from sales of AFS securities and net interest
Chase Home Financeearned on AFS securities. The net positive result of $582 million

was an increase of $838 million over 2001, driven by wider 

mortgage-swap spreads and a falling interest rate environment.

Management anticipates an eventual decrease in this revenue

category, as mortgage-swap spreads and interest rates revert to

normal levels. The carrying value of MSRs also declined $1.4 billionas a result of periodic amortization, $244 million more than in

2001. For a 
further discussion of MSR activities, see Note 12 onpages 87Ð88.Operating expense increased 28% on the growth in origination 
volume and a very high level of loan servicing activity, partially off-

set by gains in productivity and benefits realized from Six Sigma

initiatives. The overhead ratio declined to 44% from 59% in

2001, a result of strong revenue growth. Net charge-offs

remained low, reflecting the continued strong credit quality of
CHFÕs loan portfolio.
2002Over/(under) 2001
Year ended December 31,OperatingOperatingOperatingOperatingOperatingOperating
(in millions,except ratios)revenueexpensesearningsrevenueexpensesearnings
Home Finance$2,919$1,270$948
73%28%136%
Cardmember Services5,9922,121716
343344
Auto Finance696236180
261741
Regional Banking 2,7952,114399
(9)(2)(15)
Middle Market
1,493818359
4122
Other consumer services(a)(354)(138)(112)
(36)Ñ56
Total$13,541$6,421$2,490
24%14%62%
(a)Includes the elimination of revenues and expenses related to the shared activities with Treasury Services,discontinued opera
tions,support services and,in 2001,unallocated credit costs.
Chase Financial ServicesÕ businessesBusiness-related metrics
As of or for the year ended December 31,Over/(under)
(in billions,except ratios)
200220012001
Originations:Retail,wholesale and correspondent
$113
$87
30%Correspondent negotiated transactions
4397(56)
Loans serviced426430(1)
End-of-period outstandings63.659.08
Total average loans owned 
56.255.71
Number of customers (in millions)44ÑMSR carrying value
3.26.6(52)
Net charge-off ratio
0.25%0.18%7bp
Overhead ratio 
4459(1,500)
bp- Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.
37J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Business-related metrics
(a)As of or for the year ended December 31,
Over/(under)(in billions,except ratios)
200220012001
Loan and lease receivables 
$36.4$28.428%
Average loan and lease receivables
30.624.724
Origination volume 25.419.928
Market share 
5.7%4.1%160bp
Net charge-off ratio
0.530.55(2)
Overhead ratio 
3537(200)
(a)Excludes amounts related to Chase Education Finance.
bp-  Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.
CAF is the largest U.S. bank originator of auto loans and leases,with more than 2.5 million accounts. In 2002, CAF had a record

number of auto loan and lease originations, growing 28% over

2001 to $25.4 billion. Loan and lease receivables of $36.4 billion

were 28% higher than the prior year. Operating earnings grew

41% to $180 million. These results reflected higher revenue on

increases in average loan and lease receivables and lower funding

costs, offset by higher operating expenses and higher credit costs

driven by loan volumes. In 2002, CAFÕs operating revenues grew 26% to $696 million. Its
market share among auto finance companies improved from 4.1%

in 2001 to 5.7% in 2002, the result of strong organic growth and

an origination strategy that allies the business with manufacturers

and dealers. CAF relationships with several major car manufacturers

contributed to 2002 growth, as did CAFÕs dealer relationships,

which increased from approximately 12,200 dealers in 2001 to

approximately 12,700 dealers in 2002. Operating expenses

increased by 17%, reflecting volume growth. 
Chase Auto FinanceThe resulting overhead ratio improved to 35% from 37%. The net

charge-off ratio was 0.53% in 2002, down from 0.55% in 2001.
CAF is also comprised of Chase Education Finance, a top provider
of government-guaranteed and private loans for higher education.

Loans are provided through a joint venture with Sallie Mae, a 

government-sponsored enterprise and the leader in funding and 

servicing education loans. Chase Education FinanceÕs origination

volume totaled $2.6 billion, an increase of 12% from last year.
CCS is the fourth-largest U.S. credit card issuer, with more than
$51 billion in managed receivables. Operating earnings for 2002

were a record $716 million, 44% greater than 2001. The primary

drivers were the acquisition of the Providian portfolio and overall

higher revenue. These results were achieved in a highly competitive

market environment and a weak U.S. 
economy. Industry challenges
included competitive pricing, increased competition for newaccounts, depressed response rates to credit card solicitations as

costs to acquire new accounts increased, and declining accept-

ances to balance consolidation offers. 
Total operating revenue increased 34%, reflecting receivables
growth, lower funding costs, higher late fees, an increase in inter-

change revenue due to higher purchase volumes and successful

sales of fee-based products. Excluding the Providian portfolio,

operating revenues increased 12%. Operating expenses increased

33%; excluding Providian, operating expenses increased 14%,

driven by higher volumes and an increase in marketing expendi-

tures, which enabled CCS to maintain a consistent level of new

cardmember acquisitions amid a competitive market environment.

Total accounts increased 22%, reflecting the addition of 3.7 million
new accounts, as well as accounts related to the Providian 

acquisition. Total volume (purchases, cash advances and balance

transfers) increased 16% to a record $84 billion. Managed credit

card-related receivables increased 23% to $51.1 billion.
Chase Cardmember Services
The managed credit card-related net charge-off ratio was 5.89%,

an increase of 40 basis points from 2001. This increase partly

reflects the inclusion of the Providian portfolio. Excluding the
Providian portfolio, this ratio was 5.66%, an increase of 17 

basis points from 2001. This increase reflected higher contractual

losses (nonbankruptcy-related), partially offset by receivable

growth. Including Providian, the total managed 30+ day delin-

quency rate improved to 4.67% at December 31, 2002, from

4.77% a year ago.Business-related metrics
As of or for the year ended December 31,
Over/(under)(in billions,except ratios)
200220012001
End-of-period outstandings $51.1$41.623%
Average outstandings
49.138.528
Total purchases & cash advances
(a)84.072.216
Total accounts (in millions) 
29.223.922
Net charge-off ratio
5.89%5.49%40bp
30+ day delinquency rate
4.674.77(10)
Overhead ratio 
3536(100)
Note:The above metrics include other consumer loans.
(a)Sum of total customer purchases,cash advances and balance transfers.

bp- Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report38
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Business-related metrics
As of or for the year ended December 31,
Over/(under)(in billions,except ratios)
200220012001
Total average deposits (in billions)
$70
$666%
Total average assets under 
management(a)(in billions)1041031
Number of branches 
528531(1)
Number of ATMs
1,8761,907(2)
Number of online customers (in thousands)1,18593726
Overhead ratio 
76%70%600bp
(a)Assets under management includes deposits.
bp- Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.
CRB provides payment, liquidity, investment, insurance and credit
products and services to three primary customer segments: small

businesses, affluent consumers and mass-market consumers.

Within these segments, CRB serves 324,000 small businesses and2.9 million consumers and is the No. 1 bank, ranked by deposits,
in the New York tri-state area and is a leading bank in Texas.
In 2002, CRB divested two nonstrategic businesses Ð the NationalDeposit business was sold to E*Trade in February, and the Virgin

Islands branches were sold to FirstBank Puerto Rico in October. In

addition, Brown & Co., the specialty online brokerage unit, was

transferred to IMPB. Prior-period amounts have been adjusted for

the Brown & Co. transfer.
CRB had operating earnings of $399 million in 2002, down 15%
from 2001. The decrease was attributable to 9% lower revenue,

predominantly driven by lower interest rates, which compressed

spreads on deposits. Customer deposit balances grew 6% (10%

excluding divestitures) to $71 billion at December 31, 2002.
Chase Regional Banking Operating expenses were down $38 million, or 2%, from 2001,

principally driven by productivity initiatives and expense manage-

ment. Despite the decline in expenses, the overhead ratio increased

to 76% as a result of lower revenue. Credit costs declined $96 mil-

lion, primarily reflecting the run-off of an installment loan portfolio.
CMM is a premier provider of commercial banking and corporate

financial services to companies with annual sales of $10 million to
$1 billion, as well as to not-for-profit, real estate and public-sector

entities. CMM maintains a leadership position in the New York 

tri-state market and select Texas markets; it also leverages its

expertise in distinct industry segments and select regional markets

across the country.  
Business-related metrics
As of or for the year ended December 31,
Over/(under)(in billions,except ratios)
200220012001
Total average loans
$13.7$14.3(4)%
Total average 
deposits24.118.530
Nonperforming average loans as
a % of total average loans
1.91%2.35%(44)bp
Overhead ratio 
5557(200)
bp-  Denotes basis points;100 bp equals 1%.
The CMM relationship management model brings customized 
solutions to more than 14,000 middle market companies, utilizing

the products and services of the entire Firm. Product offerings

include cash management, credit, corporate finance, international

banking services and various credit products, such as leasing and

asset-backed financing. CMM is organized around geographies,

industries and products to deliver greater value to customers.

CMMÕs 2002 and 2001 results included 100% of the revenues

and expenses attributed to the shared activities with Treasury

Services. See page 25 for a discussion of the FirmÕs revenue- and

expense-sharing agreements between business segments. 
CMMÕs operating earnings increased 22% compared with the
prior year, the result of deposit volume growth, increased fees for

deposit services, expense discipline and a reduction in credit costs.

Lower interest rates reduced the value of customer deposit bal-

ances and, consequently, increased the fees paid by customers for

deposit services. The lower credit costs reflect reduced charge-offs

and improving credit quality. The overhead ratio improved to 55%,

compared with 57% last year.
Chase Middle Market39J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Support Units and CorporateSelected financial dataYear ended December 31,Over/(under)(in millions,except employees)
200220012001
Operating revenue$(847)
$ (964)$117
Operating expense122
220(98)
Credit costs133
167(34)
Pre-tax loss(1,102)
(1,351)249
Income tax benefit(359)
(702)343
Operating losses$(743)
$(649)(94)
Average common equity
$(1,815)$(2,266)451
Average assets
21,55713,0808,477
Shareholder value added
(362)(183)(179)
Full-time equivalent employees
13,32114,149(828)
Note:Amounts are shown in place of % changes.
The Support Units and Corporate sector includes EnterpriseTechnology Services (ÒETSÓ), Corporate Business Services (ÒCBSÓ),legal, audit, corporate finance, human resources, risk manage-

ment, executive management and corporate marketing. Support Units and Corporate reflects the accounting effects
remaining at the corporate level after the application of theFirmÕs management accounting policies. These policies allocate

the costs associated with technology, operational and staff sup-

port services to the business segments. The residual component

of the allowance for credit losses is not allocated to the business

segments.ETS is an internal technology service organization, and CBS man-
ages the FirmÕs support services, including real estate management,

human resources and finance operations and procurement. ETS

and CBS seek to provide services to the FirmÕs businesses that are

competitive with comparable third-party providers in terms of price

and service quality. These units leverage the FirmÕs global scale and

technology to gain efficiencies through consolidation, standardiza-

tion, vendor management and outsourcing.
In December 2002, JPMorgan Chase entered into a seven-year
agreement with IBM to outsource portions of the FirmÕs internal

technology infrastructure services. This agreement will enable the

Firm to transform its technology infrastructure through absolute

cost savings, increased cost variability, access to the best research

and innovation and improved service levels. By moving from a tra-

ditional fixed-cost approach to one with increased capacity and

cost variability, the Firm expects to be able to respond more quickly

to changing market conditions. The impact on expenses as a result

of this agreement is expected to be minimal in 2003.
For 2002, Support Units and Corporate had an operating lossof$743 million, compared with a loss of $649 million in 2001. This

sector usually operates at a moderate loss. Negative operating 
revenue usually results from the application of the FirmÕs transfer
pricing policies and the overallocation of capital to the various
business segments. Expense items usually result from timing dif-

ferences in allocations to other business sectors and residuals from

interoffice allocation among the business segments. Income tax

benefit reflects the difference between the aggregate recorded at

the consolidated level and the amount recorded at the business

segments. Included in 2002 operating expense was a $120 million
reversal of previously accrued expenses; these were associated
with forfeitable stock-based compensation awards issued under

employee benefit plans that contained stock price targets that
were deemed unlikely to be attained within the timeframes speci-

fied under the terms of the awards. 
In 2002, credit costs in excess of net charge-offs not allocated to
the segments were $133 million, compared with $167 million of

such costs in 2001. Although the Support Units and Corporate
sector has no traditional credit assets, the residual component of

the allowance for credit losses is maintained at the corporate level

and is not allocated to any specific business segment.For a fur-

ther discussion of the residual component, see page 56. 
Included in the 2001 operating losses of $649 million was a pre-
taxloss of $152 million at LabMorgan, resulting from the write-
downs of investments and equity accounting losses. LabMorgan
was restructured in 2001, and its remaining investment portfolio

of $49 million at December 31, 2002, is managed by JPMorgan
Partners.The negative capital position of $1.8 billion in Support Units
and Corporate results from an overallocation of economic 

capital to the businesses as compared with available common

stockholdersÕ equity.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report40
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
The Capital Committeefocuses on Firm-wide capital planning,
internal capital allocation and liquidity management. The 
RiskManagement Committeefocuses on credit risk, market risk,
operational risk, private equity risk and fiduciary risk. Both risk com-
mittees have decision-making authority, with major policy decisions

and risk exposures subject to review by the Executive Committee.
In addition to the Risk Policy Committee, the Audit Committee ofthe Board of Directors is responsible for discussion of guidelines and

policies to govern the process by which risk assessment and man-

agement is undertaken. In addition, the Audit Committee reviews

with management the system of internal controls and financial

reporting that is relied upon to provide reasonable assurance of
compliance with the FirmÕs operational risk management processes. 
The FirmÕs use of SVA, which incorporates a risk-adjusted capital
methodology as its primary performance measure, has strength-

ened its risk management discipline by charging the businesses the
cost of capital linked to the risks associated with their respective

activities.For a discussion of capital allocation methodologies, see therespective risk management sections on pages 45Ð65.Risk management at JPMorgan Chase is guided by several princi-ples, including:¥Defined risk governance
¥Independent oversight¥Continual evaluation of risk appetite, managed through risk limits
¥Portfolio diversification¥Risk assessment and measurement, including value-at-risk analysis
and portfolio stress testing
¥Performance measurement (SVA) that allocates risk-adjusted 
capital to business units and charges a cost against that capital Risk management and oversight begins with the Risk PolicyCommittee of the Board of Directors, which reviews the governance

of these activities, delegating the formulation of policy and day-to-
day risk oversight and management to the Executive Committee

and to the two corporate risk committees: Capital and Risk
Management.The Executive Committee provides guidance regarding strategies
and risk appetite and is responsible for an integrated view of risk

exposures, including the interdependencies among JPMorgan

ChaseÕs various risk categories. 
Risk and Capital management*Recommends targeted capital ratios and monitors adherence to those ratios
*Recommends the allocation of capital within the Firm*Monitors Firm-wide and parent company liquidity and approves collateral
and liquidity planning policies*Reviews the adequacy of the FirmÕs capital and debt levels
*Provides a forum for discussion of capital adequacy and liquidity issues
*Reviews exposure to special-purpose entities, with particular focus on
potential liquidity management issues*Oversees risk management*Strategic guidance*Integrated view*Provides oversight and direction of risk profile and risk appetite
*Reviews and approves corporate policies and risk strategies intended
to ensure that risk management and monitoring accurately reflect

the business mandate, accepted practice, and legal and regulatory

requirements
*Approves aggregate limits and authorities to control risk
*Monitors significant risk exposures, concentrations of positions, asset
quality, and significant position and risk limit changes, paying particular

attention to stress scenarios
*Reviews allowance adequacy and approves charge-offs
*Provides a forum for discussion of risk issues
Risk Policy Committeeof Board of Directors
Executive CommitteeCapital CommitteeRisk Management Committee41J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
The total required economic capital for JPMorgan Chase as deter-
mined by its models and after considering the FirmÕs estimated

diversification benefits is then compared with available common

stockholdersÕ equity to evaluate overall capital utilization. The FirmÕs

policy is to maintain an appropriate level of excess capital to provide

for growth and additional protection against losses.
The 2002 excess capital position was slightly higher than in 2001.The increase was primarily due to a decline in private equity risk

capital due to the lower carrying value of the portfolio, partially off-

set by increases in credit risk capital and goodwill/intangibles capi-

tal at Chase Financial Services, principally as a result of the acquisi-

tion of the Providian Master Trust.
Internal capital allocations may change from time to time to reflect
refinements of economic capital methodologies. For 2003, theFirm is revising its capital measurement methodologies for com-

mercial credit risk and operating risk. These changes are discussed

on pages 57 and 64.Regulatory capital:JPMorgan ChaseÕs primary federal banking
regulator, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
(ÒFederal Reserve BoardÓ), establishes capital requirements, including

well-capitalized standards and leverage ratios, for the consolidated

financial holding company and its state-chartered banks, including

JPMorgan Chase Bank. The Office of the Comptroller of the

Currency establishes similar capital requirements and standards for

the FirmÕs national bank subsidiaries, including Chase Manhattan

Bank USA, N.A. As of December 31, 2002, the financial holding
company and its banking subsidiaries maintained capital levels well
in excess of the minimum capital requirements.
Currently, the Firm targets a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8% to 8.25%.
The Capital Committee reviews the FirmÕs capital targets and policies

regularly in light of changing economic conditions and businessneeds. Additional information regarding the FirmÕs capital ratios and
a more detailed discussion of federal regulatory capital standards

are presented in Note 26 on pages 99 and 100.
Dividends:Dividends declared in any quarter will be determined 
by JPMorgan ChaseÕs Board of Directors. The Board of Directors

expressed its intent, on September 17, 2002, to continue the cur-

rent dividend level, provided that capital ratios remain strong and
earnings prospects exceed the current dividend. 
Capital and Liquidity managementCapital management   
JPMorgan ChaseÕs capital management framework helps to

optimize the use of capital by:¥Determining the amount of capital commensurate with:- Internal assessments of risk as estimated by the FirmÕs 
economic capital allocation model- The FirmÕs goal to limit losses, even under stress conditions

- Targeted regulatory ratios and credit ratings

- The FirmÕs liquidity management strategy
¥Directing capital investment to activities with the most 
favorable risk-adjusted returns
Economic risk capital:JPMorgan Chase assesses capital adequacyutilizing internal risk assessment methodologies. The Firm assigns

economic capital based primarily on four risk factors. The method-
ology quantifies credit, market and operating risk for each business

and, for JPMP, private equity risk, and assigns capital accordingly.

These methodologies are discussed in the risk management sec-

tions of this Annual Report.Capital also is assessed against business units for certain nonriskfactors. Businesses are assessed capital equal to 100% of any

goodwill and 50% for certain other intangibles generated through

acquisitions. Additionally, JPMorgan Chase assesses an Òasset capi-

tal taxÓ against managed assets and some off-balance sheet instru-

ments. These assessments recognize that certain minimum regula-

tory capital ratios must be maintained by the Firm. JPMorgan Chase
also estimates the portfolio effect on required economic capital

based on correlations of risk in stress scenarios across risk cate-

gories. This estimated diversification benefit leads to a reduction in

required economic capital for the Firm. 
Available versus required capital
Yearly Averages
(in billions)20022001Common stockholdersÕ equity$
41.4$41.5Required economic risk capital:Credit risk13.112.8Market risk
4.84.6Operating risk
8.78.8Private equity risk
5.16.4Goodwill/Intangibles
8.88.5Asset capital tax3.83.9Diversification effect(7.0)(7.2)Total required economic risk capital
37.337.8Capitalinexcess of required economic capital$4.1
$3.7J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report42
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
OverviewLiquidity risk arises from the general funding needs of the FirmÕs
activities and in the management of its assets and liabilities.
JPMorgan Chase recognizes the importance of sound liquidity

management as a key factor in maintaining strong credit ratings

and utilizes a liquidity framework intended to maximize liquidity
access and minimize funding costs. Active liquidity management
seeks to ensure that the Firm will be able to replace maturing

obligations when due and fund its assets at appropriate maturi-

ties and rates in all market environments.
Liquidity management framework The Capital Committee sets the overall liquidity policy for the
Firm and reviews the contingency funding plan. In addition, the

Capital Committee provides oversight of the FirmÕs exposure 

to special-purpose entities (ÒSPEsÓ), with particular focus on
potential liquidity support require
ments that the Firm may haveto those SPEs. The Liquidity Risk Committee,r
eporting to theCapital Committee, meets monthly to identify and monitor liq-
uidity issues, provide policy guidance, oversee adherence and

maintain an evolving contingency plan. JPMorgan Chase utilizes liquidity monitoring tools to maintainappropriate levels of liquidity through normal and stress periods.

The FirmÕs liquidity analytics rely on managementÕs judgment

about JPMorgan ChaseÕs ability to liquidate assets or use them

as collateral for borrowings. These analytics also involve esti-

mates and assumptions, taking into account credit risk manage-

mentÕs historical data on the funding of loan commitments (e.g.,

commercial paper back-up facilities), liquidity commitments to

SPEs, commitments with rating triggers and collateral-posting
requirements. For a further discussion on SPEs and other off-bal-
ance sheet arrangements, see Off-balance sheet arrangements

on page 44 as well as Note 11 on pages 83Ð87.The FirmÕs three primary measures of liquidity are: 

¥Holding company short-term surplus: Measures the parent
holding companyÕs ability to repay all obligations with a maturity

under one year at a time when the ability of the FirmÕs banks

to pay dividends to the parent holding company is constrained.
¥Cash capital surplus: Measures the FirmÕs ability to fund assets
on a fully collateralized basis, assuming access to unsecured

funding is lost.¥Basic surplus: Measures JPMorgan Chase BankÕs ability to sustain
a 90-day stress event that is specific to the Firm where no new

funding can be raised to meet obligations as they come due.Each of the FirmÕs liquidity surplus positions, as of December 31,
2002, indicates that JPMorgan ChaseÕs long-dated funding,

including core deposits, exceeds illiquid assets and that the

FirmÕs obligations can be met if access to funding is temporarily

impaired.
An extension of the FirmÕs 
ongoing liquiditymanagement is itscontingency funding plan, which is intended to help the Firm
manage through liquidity stress periods. The plan considers tem-

porary and long-term stress scenarios and forecasts potential

funding needs where access to unsecured funding is severely

limited or nonexistent. These scenarios take into account both
on- and off-balance sheet exposures, evaluating access to funds

by the parent holding company, JPMorgan Chase Bank and

Chase Manhattan Bank USA, N.A., separately.
FundingCredit ratings:
JPMorgan Chase's parent holding company and
JPMorgan Chase Bank's credit ratings as of December 31, 2002,

were as follows:
JPMorgan Chase JPMorgan Chase Bank
Short-termSenior Short-termSenior
debt long-term debt debtlong-term debt
MoodyÕs
P-1A1P-1Aa3
S&PA-1A+A-1+AA-
FitchF-1A+F-1A+
As of February 28, 2003, the ratings outlook for the parent hold-
ing company by MoodyÕs Investor Services (ÒMoodyÕsÓ) was sta-

ble, and the ratings outlook for the parent holding company by

Standard & PoorÕs (ÒS&PÓ) and Fitch, Inc. (ÒFitchÓ) was negative.
The cost and availability of unsecured financing are influenced by
credit ratings. During 2002, S&P, MoodyÕs and Fitch lowered the

debt ratings of JPMorgan ChaseÕs parent holding company and

its subsidiaries one notch to the levels noted above. This resulted

in an increase in the marginal cost of long-term wholesale funds

to the parent holding company. JPMorgan Chase BankÕs cost of

short-term funds has not been materially affected by the down-

grade, although certain counterparties and investors have
reduced limits and maturities of exposure to the Firm as a result
of these actions. The financial impact of the ratings downgrade
on the Firm has not been material. See page 44, 52 and Note 11 
on page 86 for further information about the implications of a
ratings downgrade for the Firm.Liquidity management   
In managing liquidity, management considers 
a variety of liquidity risk measures as well as

market conditions, prevailing interest rates, 

liquidity needs and the desired maturity profile

of its liabilities.
43J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Balance sheet:The FirmÕs total assets increased to $759 billion
at December 31, 2002, from $694 billion at December 31,

2001. Auto financing and residential consumer loans increased

on higher originations, offset by increased loan securitizations;

commercial loans declined, reflecting weaker loan demand and

the FirmÕs ongoing efforts to reduce commercial exposures.

Increases in debt and equity trading assets and investment secu-

rity assets were driven by increased trading and hedging activity.

Derivative receivables increased primarily as a result of the

decline in interest rates. Growth in trading assets and invest-

ment securities was financed primarily by increases in repur-

chase agreements, trading liabilities and deposits. 
Sources of funds:
The diversity of the FirmÕs funding sources
enhances flexibility and limits dependence on any one source of

funds, while minimizing the cost of funds. JPMorgan Chase has
access to funding markets across the globe and leverages a

broad investor base. Liquidity is generated using a variety of both

short-term and long-term instruments, including deposits, federal
funds purchased, repurchase agreements, commercial paper,

bank notes, medium- and long-term debt, capital securities and
stockholdersÕ equity. During the year, the Firm extended its lia-

bilitymaturity profile while reducing reliance on shorter-dated
wholesale funding instruments (e.g., federal funds purchased

and commercial paper). A major source of liquidity for JPMorgan

Chase Bank is provided by its large core deposit base. Core

deposits include all U.S. deposits, except noninterest-bearing

time deposits and certificates of deposit of $100,000 or more. 

In addition to core deposits, the Firm benefits from substantial,

stable deposit balances originated by T&SS through the normal

course of its business. Additional funding flexibility is provided by the FirmÕs ability to
access the repurchase and asset securitization markets. These

alternatives are evaluated on an ongoing basis to achieve the

appropriate balance of secured and unsecured funding. The ability

to securitize loans, and the associated gains on those securitiza-
tions, are principally dependent on the credit quality and yields 

on the assets securitized and are generally not dependent on the

ratings of the issuing entity. Transactions between the Firm and its

securitization structures are reflected in JPMorgan ChaseÕs finan-

cial statements; these relationships include retained interests in

securitization trusts, derivative transactions and liquidity facilities.
For further details, see Notes 11 and 29.Issuance:Corporate credit spreads widened in 2002 across
industries and sectors, driven by headline risk, increased invest-

ment-grade defaults and investor risk aversion. JPMorgan
ChaseÕs credit spreads increased relative to peer commercial

bank spreads but remained comparable with peer investment

bank spreads. 
Consistent with the policy discussed earlier in this section, theFirm maintains funding at the holding company sufficient to

cover maturing obligations over the next 12 months, which
requires periodic issuance of long-term debt and capital. The
Firm raised the majority of its liquidity needs earlier in the year
before the increase in cost of funding occurred. The Firm

believes that the financial impact from the increased cost of

long-term debt to be raised in 2003 will not be material.During 2002, JPMorgan Chase issued approximately $11 billion
of long-term debt and $1 billion of trust preferred capital securi-

ties. During the year, $12.2 billion of long-term debt matured or

was redeemed, and $550 million of preferred stock of subsidiary

was redeemed. In addition, the Firm securitized approximately

$7.2 billion of residential mortgage loans, $9.4 billion of credit

card loans and $3.4 billion of auto loans, resulting in pre-tax

gains on securitizations of $214 million, $45 million and $6 mil-
lion, respectively. For a further discussion of loan securitizations,

see Note 11 on pages 83Ð87.Derivatives are used in liquidity risk management and funding to
achieve the FirmÕs desired interest rate risk profile. The Firm

enters into derivatives contracts to swap fixed-rate debt to float-
ing-rate obligations and to swap floating-rate debt to fixed-rate
obligations. Derivatives contracts are also used to hedge the

variability in interest rates that arises from other floating-rate

financial instruments and forecasted transactions, such as the

rollover of short-term assets and liabilities.J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report44
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Off-balance sheet arrangements
Special-purpose entities or special-purpose vehicles (ÒSPVsÓ) are an
important part of the financial markets, providing market liquidity

by facilitating investorsÕ access to specific portfolios of assets and
risks. SPEs are not operating entities; typically they are set up for a

single, discrete purpose, have a limited life, and have no employees.

The basic SPE structure involves a company selling assets to the

SPE. The SPE funds the purchase by selling securities to investors.

To insulate investors from creditors of other entities, including the
seller of the assets, SPEs can be structured to be bankruptcy-

remote. They are critical to the functioning of many investor 
markets, including, for example, the market for mortgage-backed
securities, asset-backed securities and commercial paper. JPMorgan

Chase is involved with SPEs in three broad categories of transac-

tions: loan securitizations, multi-seller conduits, and client interme-
diation. Capital is held, as appropriate, against all SPE-related

transactions and exposures such as derivative transactions and

lending commitments. The Firm has no commitments to issue its own stock to support anSPE transaction, and its policies require that transactions with SPEs

be conducted at armsÕ length and reflect market pricing. Consistent

with this policy, no JPMorgan Chase employee is permitted to

invest in SPEs with which the Firm is involved where such invest-

ment would violate the FirmÕs Worldwide Rules of Conduct. These

rules prohibit employees from self-dealing and prohibit employees
from acting on behalf of the Firm in transactions with which they
or their family have any significant financial interest. For a further

discussion of SPEs and the FirmÕs accounting for SPEs, see Note 11

on pages 83Ð87.For certain liquidity commitments to SPEs, the Firm could berequired to provide funding if the credit rating of JPMorgan Chase
Bank were downgraded below specific levels, primarily A-1, P-1

and F-1. The amount of these liquidity commitments was $48.6
billion at December 31, 2002; $35.5 billion relate to the FirmÕs

multi-seller conduits and structured commercial loan vehicles 

further described in Note 11 on page 86. The total commercial

paper outstanding for the multi-seller conduits and structured

commercial loan vehicles was $24.7 billion at December 31, 2002.

The remaining $13.1 billion in commitments relate to vehicles

established by third parties. If JPMorgan Chase Bank is required to 

provide funding under these commitments, the Firm could be

replaced as liquidity provider. Additionally, for the multi-seller 
conduits and the structured commercial loan vehicles, JPMorgan

Chase Bank could facilitate the sale or refinancing of the assets in

the SPE. All of these commitments are included in the FirmÕs total

$196.7 billion in other unfunded commitments to extend credit,

described in more detail in Note 29 on pages 102 and 103.
The following table summarizes JPMorgan ChaseÕs contractual
cash obligations and off-balance sheet lending-related financial

instruments by remaining maturity at December 31, 2002:
(in millions)Under1Ð34Ð5 After
Contractual cash obligations
1 yearyearsyears5 years
TotalLong-term debt$7,053$10,056$9,257$13,385
$39,751Operating leases7371,3711,1614,849
8,118Total $7,790$11,427$10,418$18,234
$47,869Off-balance sheet lending-related commitments
Consumer-related$136,429$44$Ñ$14,665
$151,138Commercial-related:Other unfunded commitments to extend credit132,54751,38011,4191,308
196,654Standby letters of credit and guarantees23,92511,9041,6971,322
38,848Other letters of credit 2,383230Ñ5
2,618Total commercial-related158,85563,51413,1162,635
238,120Total lending-related commitments
$295,284$63,558$13,116$17,300
$389,258For further information about off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments, see Note 29 on pages 102 and 103.
45J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Credit risk management
Credit risk is the risk of loss due to obligor or
counterparty default. This risk is managed at
both the transaction and portfolio levels. Credit

risk management practices are designed to pre-

serve the independence and integrity of the risk
assessment process. 
Credit risk
Credit risk represents the loss the Firm would experience if an
obligor or counterparty could not meet its contractual obligations.
The Firm is subject to credit risk in its lending (e.g., loans and

lending-related commitments) and in its derivatives and certain

other trading activities. The credit risk related to the issuers 

of the securities used in the FirmÕs capital market activities is

marked-to-market, measured and managed through the FirmÕs

market risk management process.
The credit risks of the consumer and commercial portfolios are
markedly different. Broadly speaking, losses on consumer expo-

sures are more predictable, less volatile and less cyclical than

losses on commercial exposures. For the commercial portfolio,

the actual loss volatility can be much greater over the course of

an economic cycle.Credit risk management practices
Credit risk management begins with an assessment of the likeli-

hood of default and the risk of loss that could result from an

obligor or counterparty default. The Firm seeks to assess all
credit exposures, whether on- or off-balance sheet. These expo-

sures include loans, derivative 
receivables and lending-related
commitments (e.g., letters of credit and undrawncommitmentsto extend credit). At both the 
business unit and corporate levels,processes in place are intendedto 
ensure that credit risks are
accurately assessed, properly appr
oved, continuallymonitored
and actively managed.To measure these risks, estimates are made of both expected
and unexpected losses for each segment of the portfolio using
statistical techniques. First, off-balance sheet exposures are con-

verted to Òon-balance sheet loan equivalent amounts,Ó based
on the amount expected to be drawn at the time of default.
Then expected and unexpected losses are calculated. Expected

losses are statistically-based estimates of credit losses over time,

anticipated as a result of counterparty default. Expected losses

are used to set risk-adjusted credit loss provisions. However,
expected credit losses are not the sole indicators of risk. For
commercial assets, if losses were entirely predictable, the expected

loss rate could be factored into pricing and covered as a normal

and recurring cost of doing business. Unexpected losses repre-

sent the potential volatility of actual losses relative to the

expected level of loss. Unexpected losses are what create risk

and represent the primary focus of credit risk management.
The responsibility for credit risk management resides with two
functions that were integrated in early 2003: Credit Risk Policy

and Global Credit Management. Both are now headed by the

Senior Credit Officer who, in turn, reports to the Vice Chairman

for Finance, Risk Management and Administration.Credit Risk Policy formulates credit policies, limits, allowance
adequacy and guidelines. Independently from the groups that

approve and support the FirmÕs credit activities, this group moni-

tors and assesses risk profiles and risk management processes at

multiple levelsÐindividual credits, industry groups, product

groups and entire business segments of the Firm. Credit Risk

Policy is also responsible for managing problem credits. Credit

Risk Policy works jointly with Market Risk Management to
address country risk, counterparty risk, risk measurement and

capital allocation methodologies.Global Credit Management has three functions: Credit Risk
Management, Corporate Banking and the Credit Portfolio Group.

The first two functions participate in client coverage and are

responsible for approving and monitoring all credit exposures.
Experienced credit officers make decisions to extend credit

based on an evaluation of the counterpartyÕs creditworthiness

and the type of credit arrangement. These officers consider the

current and projected financial condition of the counterparty.

Also considered are the covenants, collateral and protection

available should the credit quality of the counterparty deteriorate.

After credit is extended, credit officers and industry analysts, 

in collaboration with senior business managers, monitor the
counterpartyÕs credit quality. In addition to ongoing review of

counterparty financial data and documentation, the Credit Risk

Management and Corporate Banking groups manage the formal

client- and industry-based portfolio review processes. Senior

credit officers regularly review current and potential exposure

and compliance with limits on both individual counterparties
and portfolios. The Credit Portfolio Group manages the FirmÕs

credit exposures resulting from both traditional lending and

derivative trading activities. J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report46
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Credit portfolio
JPMorgan ChaseÕs managed credit-related assets (including 
$30.7 billion of securitized credit cards) totaled $330 billion at

December 31, 2002, an increase of 7% over year-end 2001. 

The growth reflects a 16% increase in managed consumer loans,
offset by a 13% decline in commer
cial loans, and a 17% increase
in derivative receivables. At December 31, 2002, managed con-
sumerloans represented 47% of total managed credit-related
assets, compared with 43% at December 31, 2001.
The following table presents a summary of managed credit-related information for the dates indicated: 
As of or for the year endedNonperforming Past due 90 days and Average annual
December 31,Credit exposureassets
(f)Net charge-offsover and accruingnet charge-off rate
(in millions,except ratios)
2002200120022001200220012002200120022001COMMERCIAL Loans$91,548$104,864$3,672$1,997$1,881$982$57
$35
1.93%0.87%Derivative receivables
(a)83,10271,1572891,300NANAÑÑNANAOther receivables
(b)108Ñ108ÑNANANANANANATotal commercial credit-related assets174,758176,0214,0693,2971,88198257351.930.87Lending-related commitments238,120247,711NANA212(3)NANA0.09ÑTotal commercial credit exposure$412,878
$423,732$4,069$3,297$2,093$979$57
$35
0.62%0.27%CONSUMER Loans Ð Reported$124,816$112,580$521$499$1,795$1,353$473$4861.57%1.27%Loans Ð Securitized(c)30,72221,424ÑÑ1,4391,0486304575.435.83Total managed consumer loans$155,538
$134,004$521$499$3,234$2,401$1,103$9432.30%1.92%TOTAL CREDIT PORTFOLIO
Managed loans$247,086$238,868$4,193$2,496$5,115$3,383$1,160$9782.15%1.42%Derivative receivables
(a)83,10271,1572891,300NANAÑÑNANAOther receivables
(b)108Ñ108ÑNANANANANANATotal managed credit-related assets330,296310,0254,5903,7965,1153,3831,1609782.151.42Commercial lending-related commitments238,120247,711NANA212(3)NANA0.09ÑAssets acquired in loan satisfactionsNANA190124NANANANANANATotal credit portfolio$568,416
$557,736$4,780$3,920$5,327$3,380$1,160$9781.11%0.69%Credit derivative hedges notional
(d)$(33,767)$(39,271)$(66)$(42)NANA$Ñ$ÑNANACollateral held against derivatives
(e)(30,410)(17,536)ÑÑNANAÑÑNANA(a)Credit exposure and nonperforming assets include amounts related to the Enron surety receivables and letter of credit,which 
were the subject of litigation in 2001 and 2002.See page 50 for a
further discussion.
(b)Other receivables at December 31,2002 represents the Enron-related letter of credit,which continues to be the subject of lit
igation and was classified in Other assets.
(c)Represents securitized credit cards.For a further discussion of credit card securitizations,see page 23.

(d)Represents hedges of commercial credit exposure that do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133.

(e)Represents eligible collateral.Excludes credit enhancements in the form of letters of credit and surety receivables.

(f)Nonperforming assets exclude nonaccrual loans held for sale (ÒHFSÓ) of $43 million and $138 million at December 31,2002 and 
2001,respectively.HFS loans are carried at the lower of cost or
market and declines in value are recorded in Other revenue.
NA-Not applicable.
47J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Markets for traditional credit products have become more liquid,
with increased opportunities for risk management using credit

derivatives and secondary market loan sales. The Firm will begin

in 2003 to derive more of its assessment of credit risk capital from
these market-based parameters which will, in turn, affect SVA. 

See the discussion on capital allocation on page 57.Total commercial exposure 
(loans, derivatives and unfunded lend-ing-related commitments) 
was $413 billion at December 31, 2002,compared with $424 billion at December 31, 2001. At 
year-end
2002, 80% of the FirmÕs commercial credit exposure was consid-

ered investment-grade; only 1% of the total commercial credit

exposure was nonperforming. This compares with 77% investment-

grade exposure at year-end 2001; 0.8% of the total commercial

credit exposure was nonperforming at that date.
Total commercial nonperforming assets were $4.1 billion at
December 31, 2002 which included $337 million related to Enron.

This represented an increase of $772 million from year-end 2001

and equaled 2% of the total commercial credit-related assets. The

increase in nonperforming assets in 2002 was largely driven by

loans in the telecommunications and related, cable and merchant

energy and related sectors. Nonperforming assets related to Enron

declined by $936 million, primarily as a result of the settlement of

the FirmÕs litigation with the surety providers.
Commercial loan net charge-offs in 2002 were $1.9 billion,
compared with $1.0 billion in 2001. Charge-offs of commercial

lending-r
elated commitments were $212 million in 2002, compared
with a net recovery of $3 million in 2001. The charge-off ratio for

commercial loans was 1.93% in 2002 and 0.87% in 2001.
While the economic and associated credit environments are
expected to remain challenging in 2003, the Firm does not

anticipate commercial charge-offs in 2003 to reach 2002 levels.
Below are summaries of the maturity and risk profiles of the
commercial portfolio as of December 31, 2002. The ratings

scale is based on the FirmÕs internal risk ratings and is presented

on an S&P-equivalent basis.Commercial portfolio
Management of commercial credit risk begins with the individual

client selection and evaluation process. The Firm monitors and eval-

uates industry risk profiles globally. Exposures in industries deemed

to have increasing risk are more closely managed, both individually

and in the aggregate. The FirmÕs global strategy, particularly in

emerging markets, is to focus on large, leading firms with cross-

border financing needs. 
Concentration management continues to be key in managingcommercial credit risk. From the perspective of aggregate portfolio

risk management, concentration management is addressed partly

by the FirmÕs established strategy of loan origination for distribu-

tion, and partly by the purchase of credit protection through

credit derivatives and secondary market loan sales. The Firm

manages concentrations by obligor, risk rating, industry, product
and geography. As a result of a particularly difficult credit envi-

ronment in 2002, the Firm placed increased emphasis on the
management and further reduction of industry and single-name

concentrations. The Firm established an exposure and capital

threshold review process for single-name concentrations and

enhanced its procedures to reduce single-name and industry con-

centrations. The Firm will continue to refine these credit risk

management processes in 2003. 
The FirmÕs business strategy for its commercial portfolio remains
one of origination for distribution, primarily for large corporate
obligors. The majority of the FirmÕs wholesale loan originations in

IB continue to be distributed into the marketplace, with residual

holds by the Firm averaging less than 10%. The commercial loan

portfolio declined 13% in 2002, reflecting a combination of con-

tinued weak loan demand and charge-offs, as well as the FirmÕs

ongoing goal of reducing commercial credit exposure. In addi-

tion, the FirmÕs SVA discipline discourages the retention of loan

assets that do not generate a positive return above the cost of

risk-adjusted capital. SVA remains a critical discipline in making

loans and commitments, particularly when combined with other
credit and capital management disciplines.
Commercial exposure
Maturity profile 
(a)Risk profile
Investment-grade Noninvestment-grade
Total % ofAt December 31,2002AAAA+BBB+BB+CCC+investment-
(in billions,except ratios)<1 year1Ð5 years> 5 yearsTotalto AA-to A-to BBB-to B-& belowTotalgrade
Loans45%39%16%
100%$18$10$23$30$11$9255%
Derivative receivables294031100421614928387
Lending-related commitments6234410082804626423887
Total exposure(b)52%36%12%100%$142$106$83$65$17$41380%
Credit derivative hedges notional39%55%6%
100%$(9)$(10)$(10)$(4)$(1)$(34)85%
(a)The maturity profile of loans and lending-related commitments is based upon remaining contractual maturity.The maturity prof
ile of derivative receivables is based upon the estimated expected
maturity profile net of the benefit of collateral.
(b)Includes Enron-related letter of credit,which is the subject of litigation and was classified in Other assets.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report48
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Commercial exposure Ð selected industry concentrations
The Firm remains highly focused on diversifying its commercial exposure. The following table sets forth certain information rel
ated to theFirmÕs commercial credit exposure (loans, derivatives and lending-related commitments):
Risk profile of credit exposureNoninvestment-grade
CreditAs of or for the year ended December 31,2002Credit% ofInvestment-
CriticizedCriticizedNet
derivative
(in millions,except ratios)
exposure(a)total portfoliogradeNoncriticizedperformingnonperforming
(b)charge-offs(c)hedges(d)Top 10 industriesCommercial banking$44,49410.8%95%$2,214$8$38$42$(8,275)
Finance companies24,1945.99765857ÑÑ(1,950)
Investment management and private banking
18,0414.4734,6178410560Ñ
Securities brokers,dealers,exchanges
17,9134.3911,52816ÑÑ(434)
Telecom and related industries16,7704.1565,0761,487831909(1,319)
Investment and pension funds14,1643.4812,603262713Ñ
State and municipal government11,2782.799102ÑÑÑ(671)
Central government
10,2422.596302Ñ110(2)(1,926)
Oil and gas exploration and production
8,8162.1791,52034221(946)
General merchants and retailers
8,5532.1652,7201975554(1,373)
Other selected industriesAutomotive8,4022.0712,1203201(2)(1,232)
Merchant energy and related industries6,2301.5574231,849378117(830)
Cable5,9821.4451,0961,673532144(367)
Airlines2,9550.770823461469(207)
All other(e)214,84452.17839,1796,4041,976688(14,237)
Total$412,878100.0%80%$64,981$12,509$4,069$2,093$(33,767)
Risk profile of credit exposureNoninvestment-grade
CreditAs of or for the year ended December 31,2001Credit% ofInvestment-
CriticizedCriticizedNet
derivative
(in millions,except ratios)
exposure(a)total portfoliogradeNoncriticizedperformingnonperforming
(b)charge-offs(c)hedges(d)Top 10 industriesCommercial banking$
36,0078.5%90%$3,470$106$26$(2)$(7,396)
Finance companies23,5505.69775371Ñ14(1,959)
Investment management and private banking18,9484.5833,0658510035Ñ

Securities brokers,dealers,exchanges
19,9694.7911,726Ñ22(1)(524)
Telecom and related industries20,4304.8557,0471,906236312(1,640)
Investment and pension funds17,2194.1872,139348(4)(290)
State and municipal government10,3392.494602ÑÑÑ(1,051)
Central government
9,5812.39634123116(1,702)
Oil and gas exploration and production
8,8242.1712,575898(866)
General merchants and retailers
6,3541.5572,587117151(1,123)
Other selected industriesAutomotive9,3532.2761,800456615(1,151)
Merchant energy and related industries5,6091.3691,66993ÑÑ(743)
Cable5,0171.2402,89310239Ñ(229)
Airlines4,0961.0711,103651512(373)
All other228,43653.87352,5596,8482,810583(20,224)
Total$
423,732100.0%77%$84,329$9,914$3,297$979$(39,271)
(a)Credit exposure excludes risk participations and does not reflect the benefit of credit derivative hedges.
(b)Nonperforming assets exclude nonaccrual HFS loans of $18 million and $96 million at December 31,2002 and 2001,respectively.H
FS loans are carried at the lower of cost or market and declines 
in value are recorded in Other Revenue.
(c)Represents net charge-offs on loans and lending-related commitments.The amounts in parentheses represent net recoveries.

(d)Represents notional amounts only;these hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133.

(e)Criticized exposure includes $1.17 billion of emerging-markets criticized performing exposure attributable to country risk a
nd not industry or single-name risk.This exposure was included in noninvest-
ment-grade noncriticized for industry reporting.
49J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Selected industry discussion¥Financial institutionsÐ This group of industries includes
Commercial banking, Finance companies and Securities brokers,

dealers and exchanges, which are traditionally among the

largest industry groups. The Firm is a market-leader in structuring

derivatives for and lending to these sectors. In addition, at
December 31, 2002, financial institutions represented 
54% ofthe FirmÕs derivatives counterparties in its trading transactions.

Commercial exposure to this group of industries continues to

be predominantly high-investment-grade. Of the approximately

$30 billion in aggregate liquid collateral held by the Firm

against all its derivatives contracts, approximately $18 billion

supports contracts with the commercial banking industry.
¥Telecom and related industries
Ð In 2002, the telecommuni-cations industry worldwide was adversely affected by severe

capital and liquidity constraints, and the Firm saw a concurrent

deterioration in the risk profile of its credit portfolio in this sec-

tor, particularly in the third quarter. This resulted in exposures

migrating to risk ratings deemed by the Firm to be criticized,
and a higher level of nonperforming loans and charge-offs.

During the year, the Firm reduced its exposure to this sector by

18% as a result of charge-offs of $909 million and by $2.75

billion of selective reductions in exposures. At year-end 2002,

56% of the FirmÕs exposure to this sector was considered

investment-grade; 5% of the total exposure was nonperform-

ing. This compares with 55% investment-grade exposure at

year-end 2001.
¥General merchants and retailers
ÐThe FirmÕs larger expo-
sures in this segment are to industry leaders. While exposure

increased 35% in 2002, the increase was primarily to 

investment-grade obligors, with 65% of the total portfolio
investment-grade as of year-end 2002. 
¥AutomotiveÐ The Firm has historically viewed the automotiveindustry as cyclical and capital-intensive. In 2001, automotive
companies began to experience cyclical pressure, exacerbated

by the events of September 11, 2001. However, in 2002, auto

sales remained strong, and these companies took the opportu-

nity to access capital markets to supplement liquidity and
strengthen their balance sheets. While total exposure to this

industry is significant, a material portion of the exposure is to

the largest automotive companies and is 80% undrawn. This
portfolio was 71% investment-grade at December 31, 2002.¥Merchant energy and related industries
Ð The Firm experi-enced an acceleration in criticized loans in the merchant energy

sector beginning in the third quarter of 2002 and accelerating

into the fourth quarter. The Firm may experience an increase in

nonperforming loans in this sector in 2003. At December 31,
2002, credit exposure in this sector was $6.2 billion (or

approximately 1.5% of total commercial credit exposure), with

57% investment-grade. ¥CableÐThe cable industry, particularly in Europe, was also
adversely affected by severe capital and liquidity constraints in
Commercial criticized exposure trends (a)
(in billions)12/31/01 3/31/02 6/30/02 9/30/02 12/31/02
While criticized exposure to the telecommunications and related, cable and  
merchant energy and related industries increased significantly during 2002, 

all other criticized exposure (excluding emerging markets) declined 14%

during the year.
(a) Enron-related surety receivables and a letter of credit were excluded for all periods to present 
 a normalized trend.$0$5$10$15$8.4$2.3$2.2$1.2$16.3$8.6$3.2$3.2$1.2$16.7$8.6$2.4$12.8$9.3$2.7$12.4$9.8$12.1 Emerging markets 
   Telecom & related   Merchant Energy    All other   Cable$2.1$1.3$2.1$2.1$1.6$1.6$2.22002. As a result, there was a concurrent deterioration in 
the risk profile of the FirmÕs credit portfolio in this sector, 

evidenced by an increase in exposure deemed criticized and 

a higher level of nonperforming loans and charge-offs, which

largely represented a migration within noninvestment-grade

exposures. At December 31, 2002, 45% of the portfolio was

investment-grade.¥AirlinesÐ This segment includes passenger airlines, airportauthorities, courier services and other support activities related

to air transportation. Both prior to and particularly in the after-
math of September 11, 2001, the airline industry experienced
performance and financial deterioration. In response, the Firm

reduced, and increasingly collateralized, its exposure to this
sector. Credit exposure to this industry was reduced from 

$4.1 billion to $3.0 billion during 2002. At December 31,
2002, 70% of this portfolio was investment-grade. ¥All otherÐ All other at December 31, 2002 included $45 billionof credit exposure to holding and investment companies, which

was 91% investment-grade and comprised of exposures that

are not highly correlated. Liquidity back-up facilities represented

35% of total credit exposure to the sector. This group includes

trusts and estates, as well as special-purpose entities providing

secured financing of accounts receivable originated by compa-

nies in a diverse group of industries. The remaining $170 billion

of credit exposure is well diversified across over 50 other indus-

tries, with none comprising more than 2% of exposure; 74% of

the $170 billion of credit exposure was investment-grade at

December 31, 2002. Nonperforming assets comprised 0.9% of
total All other exposure at December 31, 2002.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report50
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
At December 31, 2002, the FirmÕs Enron-related exposure was
as follows:Enron-related exposure 
(a)December 31,2002 (in millions)SecuredUnsecuredTotal
Trading assets$2$
163$165
Loans21866284
Other assetsÑ108108
Lending-related commitments 131Ñ131
Total exposure$351$337$688
(a)Enron-related exposure at December 31,2002 takes into account the surety settlement on 
January 2,2003.
Of the $131 million in lending-related commitments, $125 million
relates to debtor-in-possession financing. The $108 million in
Other assets relates to the Enron-related letter of credit that is

the subject of litigation. Trading assets (both performing and

nonperforming) are carried at fair value. Secured loans are 

performing and are reported on an amortized cost basis. All

unsecured amounts are nonperforming; nonperforming loans

have been written down to reflect managementÕs estimate of

current recoverable value, and nonperforming other assets are

being carried at their current estimated realizable value in

accordance with SFAS 5.
Derivative contractsIn the normal course of business, the Firm utilizes derivative
instruments to meet the needs of customers, generate revenues

through trading activities, manage exposure to fluctuations in

interest and currency rates and manage its own credit risk. The

Firm uses the same credit risk management procedures to assess

and approve potential credit exposures when entering into deriv-

ative transactions as those used for traditional lending.  Exposures deemed criticized generally represent a risk profile
similar to a rating of CCC+/Caa1 or lower. Of the total $16.6

billion in criticized exposure as of year-end 2002, representing

4% of total commercial credit exposure, $4.1 billion was non-

performing. The telecom and related, cable and merchant

energy and related sectors represented, in the aggregate, $6.8

billion, or 41%, of total criticized exposure, but only 1.6% of

total commercial credit exposure. The balance of the criticized

exposure represented exposures diversified across a large num-

ber of customers, with limited industry concentration.  Enron-related exposure
The FirmÕs exposure to Enron and Enron-related entities was

reduced by $1.38 billion during 2002, from $2.06 billion at
December 31, 2001 to $688 million at December 31, 2002. 
In January 2003, the Firm settled its surety-bond litigation with

11 insurance companies for 60% of the principal amount of
the bonds and received a cash payment of $502 million and
unsecured
claims valued at $75 million (or 13% of face value).In connection with the settlement, the Firm charged off an
aggregate $395 millionr
elating to the remai
ning exposure on
the prepaid forward contractsand on a prepaid forward con-

tract that is backed by a letter of credit that is the subject of

continuing litigation. The Firm has reclassified the remaining

value of the derivative contracts covered by the surety bonds

and the $75 million in unsecured claims as Trading assets. In

addition to these write-downs and charge-offs, during 2002,

$76 million of other Enron-related exposure was charged-off or

written-down and $402 million of Enron-related assets were

sold or matured, including $125 million of debtor-in-possession

financing exposure which matured without being drawn.
Notional amounts and derivative receivables
Notional amounts(a)Derivative receivables
(b)December 31,(in billions)
2002200120022001Interest rate contracts
(c)$23,591$19,085$55
$41
Foreign exchange contracts
(c)1,5051,636710Equity3072841312Credit derivatives
36626263Commodity(d)363625Total notional and credit exposures$25,805$21,303$83
$71
(a)The notional amounts represent the gross sum of long and short third-party notional derivative contracts.
(b)Represents the amount of derivative receivables on the balance sheet after the impact of master netting agreements.

(c)Gold bullion notional amounts were $41 billion and $42 billion at December 31,2002 and 2001,respectively.The corresponding d
erivative receivables (before the impact of master netting agree-
ments) were $2.6 billion and $5.3 billion at December 31,2002 and 2001,respectively.The corresponding derivative payables were 
$2.0 billion and $5.1 billion at December 31,2002 and 2001,
respectively.At December 31,2002,the VAR related to the FirmÕs gold trading position was $1.4 million.
(d)Energy-related notional amounts,including written options,were $39billion and $41 billion at December 31,2002 and 2001,respe
ctively.The corresponding derivative receivables (before the impact
of master netting agreements) were $2.8 billion and $4.3 billion at December 31,2002 and 2001,respectively.The 
corresponding derivative payableswere $1.9 billion and $2.8 billion at December 31,
2002 and 2001,respectively.At December 31,2002,the VAR related to the FirmÕs energy-related trading positions was $1.4 million.
The following table summarizes the aggregate notional amounts and derivative receivables (i.e., the mark-to-market or fair valu
e of thederivative contract after taking into account the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements) at each of the date
s indicated:51J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
The $26 trillion of notional principal of the FirmÕs derivative contracts
outstanding at December 31, 2002, significantly exceeds the possible
credit losses that could arise from such transactions. For most deriva-

tive transactions, the notional principal amount does not change
hands; it is simply used as a reference to calculate payments. In terms

of current credit risk exposure, the appropriate measure of risk is the

mark-to-market (ÒMTMÓ) value of the contract. The MTM exposure
represents the cost to replace the contracts at current market
rates should the counterparty default. When JPMorgan Chase
has more than one transaction outstanding with a counterparty,

and a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists with

the counterparty, the net MTM exposur
e, less collateral held, rep-
resents, in the FirmÕs view, 
the appropriate
measure of current
credit risk with that counterparty as of the reporting date. At

December 31, 2002, the MTMvalue of derivatives receivables(after taking into account the effects of master nettingagree-

ments) was $83 billion. Further, after taking into account $30

billion of collateral held by the Firm, the net current credit expo-

sure was $53 billion.
While useful as a current view of credit exposure, the net MTM
value of the derivatives receivable does not capture the poten-

tial future variability of that credit exposure. To capture the

potential future variability of credit exposure, the Firm measures,

on a client-by-client basis, both the worst-case, or peak, future

credit risk (at a 97.5% confidence level), as well as the expected

credit risk. However, the total potential future credit risk embed-

ded in the FirmÕs derivatives portfolio is not the simple sum of

all peak or expected client credit risks. This is because, at the

portfolio level, credit risk is reduced by the fact that when off-

setting transactions are done with separate counterparties, only

one of the two trades can generate a credit loss even if both

counterparties were to default simultaneously. The Firm refers to

this effect as market diversification.
The Firm defines the Òmarket-diversified peakÓ as the maximumloss (estimated at the 97.5% confidence level) that would occur
if all counterparties were to default over a one-year time hori-

zon without any recovery. The market-diversified peak, after

taking into account both collateral and netting, was approxi-

mately $57 billion at December 31, 2002. Since, generally, all

counterparties will not default at once nor all default when their
exposures are at peak levels, this is a conservative measure, in

the FirmÕs view, of its potential future derivatives credit risk.
The MTMvalue of the FirmÕs derivative receivables incorporates an
adjustment to reflect the credit quality of counterparties. This is

called the Credit Valuation Adjustment (ÒCVAÓ) and was 

$1.3 billion as of December 31, 2002, compared with $1.2 billion

at December 31, 2001. The CVA is based on the expected future

exposure (incorporating netting and collateral) to a counterparty,

and on the counterpartyÕs credit spread in the credit derivatives

market. The primary components of changes in CVA are credit

spreads, new deal activity, deal unwinds and changes in the inter-

est rate, equity, foreign exchange or commodity environment. The

CVA increase in 2002 was primarily due to derivative receivables,

which increased as a result of a drop in U.S. interest rates,

increased interest rate volatility and widening of credit spreads 

during the year.
The Firm believes that dynamic risk management is essential tocontrolling the credit risk in the derivatives portfolio. The Firm

hedges components of the CVA change by entering into credit

derivative transactions as well as interest rate, foreign exchange,

equity and commodity derivatives transactions when client deals
are originated. These hedges are rebalanced as market conditions

dictate, driven primarily by changes in the counterpartiesÕ credit

quality. If counterparty credit risk increases, the CVA increases to

reflect the increased likelihood that the client will not perform.
Correspondingly, the required market hedges to protect against

subsequent credit-quality deterioration increase. The net impact of

the change in CVA, plus the result of all forms of related hedging

activity, is accounted for in Trading revenue and was not material

to the overall trading results of the Firm for the year.
At December 31, 2002, 52% of the FirmÕs counterparties in deriv-
ative transactions were investment-grade financial institutions,

most of which are dealers in these products. The investment-

grade portion of the derivative receivables was 87% at December

31, 2002. Nonperforming derivative receivables at December 31,

2002, were $289 million, compar
ed with $1.3 billion at
December 31, 2001. This decrease 
of $1.0 billion primarilyr
elatedto the settlement of the Enron surety litigation.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report52
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Approximately two-thirds of the FirmÕs derivatives transactions
have associated collateral agreements, and collateralization as a

primary form of credit risk mitigation continues to increase. The

Firm held $30 billion of collateral as of December 31, 2002,
compared with $20 billion as of December 31, 2001. The Firm

posted $19 billion of collateral at year-end 2002, compared with

$11 billion at the end of 2001. The increases were driven largely

by the drop in U.S. interest rates and by new collateral agree-

ments. In addition, derivative and collateral agreements include

provisions that require both the Firm and the counterparty, upon

specified downgrades in their respective credit ratings, to post

collateral for the benefit of the other party. The impact on

required collateral of a single-notch ratings downgrade to
JPMorgan Chase Bank from its current rating of AA- to A+

would have been an additional $1.2 billion of collateral as of
December 31, 2002. The impact of a six-notch ratings down-
grade to JPMorgan Chase Bank (from AA- to BBB-) would have

been $3.7 billion of additional collateral from current levels as 

of December 31, 2002. The amount of additional collateral
required upon downgrade moves in tandem with the mark-to-
market value of the derivatives portfolio and ranged from $2.6

billion to $3.8 billion through 2002 (related to a six-notch

downgrade), as the level of U.S. interest rates changed.

Moreover, certain derivatives contracts also provide for termina-

tion of the contract, generally upon JPMorgan Chase Bank
being downgraded, at the then-existing mark-to-market value
of the derivative receivables.
Use of credit derivatives
The following table presents the notional amounts of credit

derivatives protection bought and sold at December 31, 2002:
Credit derivatives activity
Portfolio managementDealer/Client
Notional amountNotional amount
ProtectionProtectionProtectionProtection
(in millions)boughtsoldboughtsoldTotal
$34,262(a)$495$158,794$172,494$366,045
(a)Includes $10.1 billion of portfolio credit derivatives,of which $8 billion matures by 
June 30,2003.
JPMorgan Chase has limited counterparty exposure as a result 
of credit derivatives transactions. Of the $83 billion of total 

derivative receivables at December 31, 2002, approximately 

$5.5 billion, or 7%, was associated with credit derivatives, before

the benefit of collateral. The use of derivatives to manage expo-
sures does not reduce the reported level of assets on the balance

sheet or the level of reported off-balance sheet commitments.
Portfolio management activityJPMorgan ChaseÕs commercial credit portfolio is composed of

credit exposures to clients arising from both lending and derivatives

activities. In managing this portfolio, single-name and portfolio
credit derivatives are purchased by the Credit Portfolio Group to

hedge these exposures. As of December 31, 2002, the notional

outstanding of protection purchased via single-name and portfolio

credit derivatives was $24 billion and $10 billion, respectively. 

The Firm also diversifies its exposures by providing (i.e., selling)

small amounts of credit protection, which increases exposure to

industries or clients where the Firm has little or no client-related

exposure. This activity is not material to the FirmÕs overall credit

exposure, and credit protection sold totaled less than $500 million

in notional exposure at December 31, 2002. 
Single-name and portfolio credit derivatives
Notional amount ofDecember 31,2002 (in millions)protection bought
Loans and lending-related commitments$25,222
Derivative receivables9,040
Total$34,262
JPMorgan ChaseÕs utilization of credit derivatives for its portfolio
management activities related to loans and lending-related com-

mitments does not qualify for hedge accounting under SFAS 133.

These derivatives are marked-to-market in Trading revenue,

whereas the loans and lending-related commitments being

hedged are accounted for on an 
accrual basis in Net interest
income. This asymmetry in accounting treatment between loans

and lending-related 
commitments and the derivatives utilized Rating equivalentExposure net% of exposure
(in millions)of collateral
(a)net of collateral
AAA to AA-
$25,56049%
A+ to A-
8,66816
BBB+ to BBB-9,46718
BB+ to B-7,44014
CCC+ and below1,5573
Total$52,692100%
(a) Total 
derivative receivables exposure and collateral held by the Firm against this exposure were
$83 billion and $30 billion,respectively.The $30 billion excludes $2.7 billion of collateral 

delivered by clients at the initiation of transactions;this collateral secures exposure that could 

arise in the existing portfolio of derivatives should the MTM of the clientsÕ transactions move 

in the FirmÕs favor.The $30 billion also excludes credit enhancements in the form of letters of 

credit and surety receivables.
The table below summarizes the risk profile, as of December 31,
2002, of the FirmÕs balance sheet exposure to derivative contracts,

net of cash and other highly liquid collateral:53J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
in the portfolio management activities causes earnings volatility
that is not representative of the true changes in value of the FirmÕs

overall credit exposures. The mark-to-market treatment of both

the FirmÕs derivatives hedges (ÒshortÓ credit positions) and deriva-

tives counterparty exposure (ÒlongÓ credit positions) provide some

natural offset of each other. Included in Trading revenue are gains

of $127 million in 2002 related to credit derivatives that were used

to hedge the FirmÕs credit exposure. Of the $127 million, approxi-

mately $94 million was associated with credit derivatives used to

hedge accrual lending activities. Trading revenues incorporate both

the cost of hedge premiums and changes in value due to spread

movements and credit events.
Dealer/client activityJPMorgan ChaseÕs dealer activity in credit derivatives is client-

driven. The business acts as a market maker in single-name
credit derivatives and also structures more complex transactions

for clientsÕ investment or risk management purposes. The credit
derivatives trading function operates within the same frame-work as other market-making desks. Risk limits are established

and closely monitored.
As of December 31, 2002, the total notional amounts of pro-
tection purchased and sold by the dealer business were $159

billion and $172 billion, respectively. The mismatch between

these notional amounts is attributable to the Firm selling pro-

tection on large, diversified, predominantly investment-grade

portfolios (including the most senior tranches), and then hedg-
ing these positions by buying protection on the more subordi-

nated tranches of the same portfolios. In addition, the Firm
may use securities to hedge certain derivative positions.
Consequently, while there is a mismatch in notional amounts 

of credit derivatives, the risk positions are largely matched. The

amount of credit risk contributed by the FirmÕs credit derivatives

dealer activity is immaterial in the context of JPMorgan ChaseÕs

overall credit exposures.
Selected country exposure 
At December 31,2002
At December 31,
2001Cross-border
TotalTotal
total(in billions)Lending(a)Trading(b)Other(c)Totallocal
(d)exposure
exposureMexico$1.0$0.6$0.2$1.8$0.4$2.2
$2.6Brazil
0.50.31.22.00.12.1
3.3Argentina(e)0.20.10.10.4Ñ0.4
0.6Venezuela0.20.2Ñ0.4Ñ0.4
0.3Japan2.52.30.75.53.99.4
10.7South Korea
0.90.60.31.80.92.7
3.1Hong Kong
0.70.31.22.2Ñ2.2
2.1Indonesia0.20.1Ñ0.30.10.4
0.6South Africa0.30.20.10.6Ñ0.6
0.7Saudi Arabia
0.60.2Ñ0.8Ñ0.8
0.7(a)Lending includes loans and accrued interest receivable,interest-bearing deposits with banks,acceptances,other monetary asset
s,issued letters of credit,and undrawn commitments to extend credit.
(b)Trading includes (1) issuer exposure on cross-border debt and equity instruments,held in both trading and investment account
s,adjusted for the impact of issuer hedges,including credit derivatives;
and (2) counterparty exposure on derivative and foreign exchange contracts as well as security financing trades (resale agreeme
nts and securities borrowed).(c)Other represents mainly local exposure funded cross-border.

(d)Local exposure is defined as exposure to a country denominated in local currency,booked and funded locally.

(e)Trading exposure at December 31,2002 to Argentina is net of credit protection provided by third-party insurers in the form o
f surety bonds valued at $157 million against performing derivative trades.
Country exposure
sure includes exposure to both government and private-sector
entities in a country.
While exposure to Mexico fluctuates as a result of trading activities,
the decrease over the prior year was primarily due to loan maturi-

ties and reductions in counterparty exposure on derivatives. The

decrease in exposure to Brazil over the prior year-end was due to

reductions in loans and derivative exposures, as well as reductions
in local government trading positions. Reductions in Argentina were

due to a combination of maturities and write-downs. Exposure to

Venezuela increased modestly as a result of trading positions. 
The Firm has a comprehensive process for measuring and manag-
ing its country exposures and risk. Exposures to a country include

all credit-related lending, trading and investment activities,

whether cross-border or locally funded. 
The table below presents JPMorgan ChaseÕs exposure to selected
countries. This disclosure is based on managementÕs view of

country exposure. Exposure amounts are adjusted for credit

enhancements (e.g., guarantees and letters of credit) provided by

third parties located outside the country if the enhancements fully

cover the country risk, as well as the commercial risk. Total expo-
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report54
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Consumer portfolioConsumer credit risk management uses sophisticated portfolio
modeling, credit scoring and decision-support tools to project

credit risks and establish underwriting standards. Risk parame-

ters are established in the early stages of product development,

and the cost of credit risk is an integral part of product pricing

and evaluating profit dynamics. Consumer portfolios are moni-

tored to identify deviations from expected performance and

shifts in patterns of consumer behavior. 
JPMorgan ChaseÕs consumer portfolio consists primarily of 
mortgages, credit cards and auto financings. This portfolio is

predominantly U.S.-based and continues to be geographically

well-diversified. The FirmÕs managed consumer portfolio totaled 

$156 billion at December 31, 2002, an increase of $22 billion,

or 16%, from 2001. The pie graph to the right provides a sum-

mary of the consumer portfolio by loan type at year-end 2002

and each loan typeÕs charge-off rate. The FirmÕs largest compo-

nent, residential mortgage loans, comprised 41% of the total

consumer portfolio and is primarily secured by first mortgages.
The following table presents managed consumer credit-related information for the dates indicated: 
As of or for the year ended Credit-relatedNonperforming Past due 90 days and Average annual
December 31,loansassets
(c)Net charge-offsover and accruingnet charge-off rate
(in millions,except ratios)
2002200120022001200220012002200120022001Consumer:U.S.consumer:1Ð4 family residential mortgages-first liens$49,357$47,786$259$233$49
$42
$Ñ$Ñ0.11%0.09%Home equity14,64311,644534778ÑÑ0.050.071Ð4 family residential mortgages64,00059,4303122805650ÑÑ0.100.09Credit card Ð reported 19,67719,38715221,3899904514496.425.09Credit card securitizations(a)30,72221,424ÑÑ1,4391,0486304575.435.83Credit card Ð managed 50,39940,81115222,8282,0381,0819065.875.45Auto financings33,61525,667118118161137Ñ10.570.59Other consumer(b)7,5248,096767918917622362.412.17Total managed consumer loans$155,538$134,004$521$499$3,234$2,401$1,103$9432.30%1.92%(a)Represents the portion of JPMorgan ChaseÕs credit card receivables that have been securitized.
(b)Consists of installment loans (direct and indirect types of consumer finance),student loans,unsecured revolving lines of cre
dit and non-U.S.consumer loans.
(c)Nonperforming assets exclude consumer nonaccrual loans HFS of $25 million and $42 million at December 31,2002 and 2001,respe
ctively.HFS loans are carried at the lower of cost or market,
and declines in value are recorded in Other revenue.
Residential mortgage 41%Charge-off rate: 2002 - 0.10% 
2001 - 0.09%Auto 22% Charge-off rate: 
2002 - 0.57% 
2001 - 0.59%Consumer managed loan portfolioCredit card managed 32% Charge-off rate: 2002 - 5.87% 
2001 - 5.45%Other consumer 5% Charge-off rate: 
2002 - 2.41% 
2001 - 2.17%55J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Loans for 1Ð4 family residential mortgages increased 8% during
2002 on increased originations. While net charge-offs for 2002

increased $6 million, or 12%, over the prior year, the 2002 net

charge-off rate remained low at 0.10%, reflecting the contin-

ued strong credit quality of the portfolio. At December 31,

2002, the Firm had $1.8 billion of subprime residential mort-

gage loans, of which $1.3 billion were held for sale. 
The Firm analyzes its credit card portfolio on a ÒmanagedÓ
basis, which includes credit card receivables on the balance

sheet and those that have been securitized. Managed credit

card receivables increased by $9.6 billion, or 23% during 2002.

Approximately $6.9 billion of this growth arose from the acqui-

sition of the Providian Master Trust in February 2002. The man-

aged net charge-off ratio of 5.87% was 42 basis points higher

than in 2001. The increase in the net charge-off rate was a

result of higher consumer bankruptcy levels as well as highercontractual losses (i.e., losses on accounts not bankrupt), due, in
large part, to the credit characteristics of the Providian portfolio;

these losses were therefore anticipated at the time of the port-

folio acquisition. Auto finance receivables grew by 31% to approximately $34 bil-
lion, while the net charge-off rate improved slightly from 0.59%

to 0.57% in 2002.In the consumer sector, the Firm currently anticipates higher
charge-offs in 2003 resulting from increases in loans outstand-

ing; charge-off rates are anticipated to be similar to those expe-

rienced in 2002.California 17%U.S. managed consumer loans by region (a)
Northeast 17%
Southwest 4%Southeast 17%
West 7%
Texas 8%
Midwest 14%
New York  16%
(a) Based on U.S. residential mortgage, managed credit card and auto financing loans.
Consumer loans by geographic region
(a)ResidentialManaged creditAuto
mortgage loanscard loansfinancings
December 31,(in millions)
200220012002200120022001New York City
$12,026$6,638$3,007$2,431$2,801$2,244New York (excluding New York City)
2,4524,9763,0022,426936868Remaining Northeast10,0538,9548,8177,1437,2065,651Total Northeast24,53120,56814,82612,00010,9438,763Southeast9,5318,1649,5897,8005,4674,463Midwest4,8344,0609,6547,9015,8393,668Texas3,9783,5664,3363,4343,8773,495Southwest (excluding Texas)
1,6611,4282,3991,9521,181931California14,50116,8206,2295,0654,7483,370West (excluding California)4,9644,8243,3662,6591,560977Non-U.S.
12506Ñ7Ñ38Total$64,012$59,936$50,399$40,818$33,615$25,705(a)This table excludes other consumer loans of $7.51 billion and $7.55 billion at December 31,2002 and 2001,respectively.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report56
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
the telecommunications and related industries and cable sectors,
which led to an increase in criticized and nonperforming loans. 
The commercial expected loss component of the allowance was
$613 million at December 31, 2002, a decrease of $55 million,

or 8%, from year-end 2001. The decrease reflected a reduction

in the amount, and an improvement in the average quality, of

the noncriticized portion of the loan portfolio.The consumer expected loss component of the allowance was$2.36 billion at December 31, 2002, an increase of $255 million,

or 12%, from year-end 2001. The increase was primarily attributa-

ble to the acquisition of the Providian portfolio by Cardmember

Services. This increase was partially offset by a reduction in the

amount of retained credit card loans (excluding those in the

Providian portfolio) and a reduction in expected loss rates in the

Auto Finance portfolio as a result of improved delinquency rates.
The residual component of the allowance was $774 million at
December 31, 2002, an increase of $79 million, or 11%, from

year-end 2001. Management views the residual component as

necessary to address uncertainties at December 31, 2002, 

primarily in the commercial portfolio. At December 31, 2002, the

residual component represented approximately 14% of the total
allowance for loan losses, within the FirmÕs target range of

between 10% and 20%.Allowance for credit losses
JPMorgan ChaseÕs allowance for credit losses is intended to cover

probable credit losses, including those in which the asset is not

specifically identified or the size of the loss has not been fully
determined. At least quarterly, the FirmÕs Risk Management

Committee reviews the allowance for credit losses relative to the

risk profile of the FirmÕs credit portfolio and current economic con-

ditions. The allowance is adjusted based on that review if, in man-

agementÕs judgment, changes are warranted. The allowance

includes specific and expected loss components and a residual

component. For further discussion of the components of the
allowance for credit losses, see Critical accounting estimates used

by the Firm on pages 65Ð66 and Note 10 on page 82. At
December 31, 2002, management deemed the allowance for
credit losses to be adequate to absorb losses that currently may

exist but are not yet identifiable.
LoansThe commercial specific loss component of the allowance was

$1.60 billion at December 31, 2002, an increase of $547 mil-

lion, or 52%, from year-end 2001. The increase was primarily

attributable to the deterioration in commercial loans related to
Summary of changes in the allowance20022001(in millions)CommercialConsumerResidualTotal
CommercialConsumerResidualTotal
Loans:Beginning balance at January 1
$1,724$2,105$695$4,524
$1,521$1,444$700$3,665
Net charge-offs(1,881)(1,795)Ñ(3,676)
(982)(1,353)Ñ(2,335)
Provision for loan losses2,3711,589794,039
1,1762,014(5)3,185
Other2461Ñ463
9ÑÑ9
Ending balance at December  31
$2,216(a)$2,360$774$5,350
$1,724(a)$2,105$695$4,524
Lending-related commitments:
Beginning balance at January 1
$226$Ñ$56$282
$250$Ñ$33$283
Net charge-offs(212)ÑÑ(212)
3ÑÑ3
Provision for lending-related commitments309Ñ(17)292
(26)Ñ23(3)
Other1ÑÑ1
(1)ÑÑ(1)
Ending balance at December 31$324(b)$Ñ$3
9$363$226(b)$Ñ$5
6$282(a)Includes $1.60 billion and $613 million of commercial specific and commercial expected loss components,respectively,at Decem
ber 31,2002.Includes $1.06 billion and $668 million of commercial
specific and commercial expected loss components,respectively,at December 31,2001.
(b) Includes $237 million and $87 million of commercial specific and commercial expected loss components,respectively,at Decemb
er 31,2002.Includes $143 million and $83 million of commercial 
specific and commercial expected loss components,respectively,at December 31,2001.
Credit costs
For the year ended December 3120022001(in millions)CommercialConsumerResidualTotal
CommercialConsumerResidualTotal
Provision for loan losses$2,371$1,589$79$4,039
$1,176$2,014$(5)$3,185
Provision for lending-related commitments309Ñ(17)292
(26)Ñ23(3)
Securitized credit lossesÑ1,439Ñ1,439
Ñ1,048Ñ1,048
Total managed credit costs$2,680$3,028$62$5,770
$1,150$3,062$18$4,230
57J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Lending-related commitments
To provide for the risk of loss inherent in the credit-extension
process, management also computes specific and expected loss

components as well as a residual component for lending-related

commitments. This is computed using a methodology similar 
to that used for the loan portfolio, modified for expected 
maturities and probabilities of drawdown. The allowance

increased due to deterioration in the criticized portion of the

FirmÕs lending-related commitments. In 2002, the Firm charged-

off $212 million of a lending-related commitment to one oblig-

or in the telecommunications and related industry segment.
Capital allocation for credit risk
Unexpected credit losses drive the allocation of credit risk capital

by portfolio segment. In the commercial portfolio, capital alloca-

tions are differentiated by risk rating, loss severity, maturity and

correlations. Within the consumer businesses, capital allocations

are differentiated by product and by product segment.
For the commercial portfolio, the Firm in 2003 will begin align-
ing its assessment of credit risk capital to correspond more

closely to market conditions, both at the time of the credit

extension and on an ongoing basis. This is intended to facilitate
risk management, by taking advantage of the growing market

in credit derivatives and secondary market loan sales, and to
encourage earlier action in the event of market deterioration. In determining the amount of credit risk capital that should be

associated with credit exposures, the Firm will emphasize cur-

rent, market-based estimates of default likelihood and credit
deterioration implied from credit spreads and equity prices,

rather than historical averages. Concurrently, the Firm will assess

the valuation impact of credit deterioration as well as anticipated

losses associated with default.Depending on market conditions, the assessment of credit risk
capital is expected to vary with changes in credit spreads in the

market. The new methodology is expected to increase the

amount of credit risk capital allocated to the commercial portfo-

lio. This expected increase in credit risk capital will be partially

offset by methodology changes to operating risk capital (see the

discussion on Capital allocation for operational and business risk

on page 64). The Firm will also continue to refine in 2003 its

processes for establishing credit exposure limits for industry and

single-name concentrations, including investment-grade obligors.For the consumer portfolio, consumer products are placed into
categories with homogenous credit characteristics, from which

default rates and charge-offs can be estimated. The credit risk

capital to be allocated is based on the unexpected loss inherent

in those segments.J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report58
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Market risk managementRisk management processes
Market Risk Management is an independent corporate gover-nance function that identifies, measures, monitors and controls

market risk. It seeks to facilitate efficient risk/return decisions

and to reduce volatility in operating performance by making the

FirmÕs market risk profile transparent to senior management, the

Board of Directors and regulators.
Market Risk Management reports to the Vice Chairman for
Finance, Risk Management, and Administration. Within the

group, individual coverage teams are assigned to particular busi-

nesses and have expertise in the types of risk specific to those
businesses. Each team is responsible for measuring, monitoring,

and controlling market risk for its business.
In addition to the coverage teams, two groups are managed
under a joint mandate with Credit Risk Policy. One group is

responsible for country risk and counterparty risk. The secondgroup develops the methodologies for measuring risk and allo-

cating market and credit risk capital throughout the Firm.
Finally, the Policy Reporting and Analysis group within Market
Risk Management is responsible for developing the policies that

control the market risk management processes and for aggregat-

ing, interpreting, and distributing market risk-related information
throughout the Firm.
There are other groups reporting to the Vice Chairman with
some responsibility for managing market risk. For example,

within the Finance area, the Valuation Control Group is respon-

sible for ensuring the accuracy of the valuations of all positions
taken within IB.Management of market risk is not, however, confined to a cen-
tral organization. Business units are expected to maintain strong

risk discipline at all levels. Trading businesses, for example, have
functions that act independently from trading personnel and are
responsible for verifying risk exposures taken within their busi-
nesses. In addition, businesses are expected to report exposures

which may be unusually large or may not fit existing risk meas-
urement methodologies. 
Risk measurement
Because no single measure can reflect all aspects of market risk,

the Firm uses several measures, both statistical and nonstatistical,

including: ¥Statistical risk measures
- Value-at-Risk (ÒVARÓ)
- Risk identification for large exposures (ÒRIFLEÓ)
¥Nonstatistical risk measures
- Economic value stress tests

- Net interest income stress tests

- Other measures of position size and sensitivity to market moves
Value-at-Risk JPMorgan ChaseÕs statistical risk measure, VAR, gauges the dollar
amount of potential loss from adverse market moves in an ordi-

nary market environment and provides a consistent cross-business

measure of risk profiles and levels of risk diversification. VAR is

used to compare risks across businesses, to monitor limits and

to allocate economic capital. In a normal trading environment,

VAR provides risk transparency to senior management, business
heads, regulators and investors.
Each business day, the Firm undertakes a comprehensive VAR
calculation that includes its trading, investment, and asset/liability

(ÒA/LÓ) management activities. JPMorgan ChaseÕs VAR calcula-

tion is highly granular, comprising more than 500,000 positions

and 200,000 pricing series (e.g., securities prices, interest rates,

foreign-exchange rates). For a large portion of its exposure, the

Firm has implemented full-revaluation VAR, which, management

believes, generates more accurate results.
To calculate VAR, the Firm uses historical simulation, which
measures risk across instruments and portfolios in a consistent,

comparable way. This approach assumes that historical changes

in market values are representative of future changes. The simu-

lation is based on data for the previous 12 months.
Market risk represents the potential loss in
value of portfolios and financial instruments
caused by movements in market variables, such
as interest and foreign-exchange rates, credit

spreads, and equity and commodity prices.

JPMorgan Chase employs comprehensive, rigor-

ous processes intended to measure, monitor,

and control market risk.
Key terms:*VAR: Worst-case loss expected within the confidence level; while larger losses are possible, they have a correspondingly low pr
obability of
actually occurring *Full-revaluation VAR: Method that prices each financial instrument separately, based on the actual pricing models used by the l
ines ofbusiness; compared with sensitivity-based VAR, which only approximates the impact of market moves on financial instrument price
s*Back-testing: Validating a model by comparing its predictions with actual results 
*Confidence level: The probability that actual losses will not exceed estimated VAR; the greater the confidence level, the highe
r the VAR
59J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
The Firm calculated the VAR numbers reported above using a
one-day time horizon and a 99% confidence level. This means
the Firm would expect to incur losses greater than predicted by

VAR estimates only once in every 100 trading days, or about 2.5times a year. In 2002, there were no days on which actual Firm-

wide market risk-related losses exceeded corporate VAR, a result

which does not differ significantly from the 99% confidence level. 
Although no single risk statistic can reflect all aspects of market
risk, the table above provides a meaningful overview of the

FirmÕs market risk exposure arising from trading activities and

the investment and A/L portfolios. VARs for the investment

portfolio and A/L activities measure the amount of potential

change in their economic value; however, they are not measures

of reported revenues since those activities are not marked-to-

market through earnings.
The daily average trading VAR for the 12 months of 2002 was
$71.6 million. The largest contributor was interest rate risk,

which includes credit spread risk; before portfolio diversification,

interest rate risk accounted for roughly two-thirds of the aver-

age VAR. The diversification effect, which averaged $(28.9) mil-

lion in 2002, reflects the fact that the largest losses for different

positions and risks do not typically occur at the same time. Therisk of a portfolio of positions is therefore usually less than the
sum of the risks of the positions themselves. The degree of

diversification is determined both by the extent to which different

market variables tend to move together, and by the extent to

which different businesses have similar positions.
The reduction in trading VAR between year-end 2002 and 2001
was driven primarily by declines in market volatilities, particularly
in interest rates and energy prices. In general, over the course of

a year, VAR exposures can vary significantly as trading positions

change and market volatility fluctuates.The histogram on the following page illustrates the FirmÕs daily
market risk-related revenue, defined as the daily change in value

of the mark-to-market trading portfolios plus any trading-related

net interest income, brokerage commissions, underwriting fees

or other revenue. The chart shows that the Firm posted positive

daily market risk-related revenue for 226 out of 258 days in

2002, with 63 days exceeding $50 million. Losses were sus-

tained on 32 of the 258 days; 17 of those days were in the third

quarter. Poor overall trading results in that quarter accounted

for the losses during those 17 days. No daily trading loss during
the year was in excess of $64 million.All statistical models involve a degree of uncertainty, depending
on the assumptions they employ. The Firm prefers historical sim-

ulation because it involves fewer assumptions about the distri-
bution of portfolio losses than parameter-based methodologies.

In addition, the Firm regularly assesses the quality of the market

data, since their accuracy is critical to computing VAR.
Nevertheless, to the extent that VAR is largely based on histori-
cal market data, it may not accurately reflect future risk during

environments in which market volatility is changing. In addition,

the VAR measure on any particular day is not indicative of

future risk levels, since positions and market conditions may

both change over time.Aggregate portfolio
For the year 2002For the year 2001
AverageMinimumMaximumAtAverageMinimumMaximumAt
(in millions) VARVARVARDecember 31 VARVARVARDecember 31
Trading portfolio:Interest rate 
$67.7$50.5$97.9$64.2
$51.1$26.1$97.1$85.3
Foreign exchange11.64.421.218.4
7.43.916.98.7
Equities 14.45.432.78.4
21.68.936.910.7
Commodities3.61.613.31.9
5.22.513.913.7
Fund investment 3.22.53.63.2
3.12.54.23.5
Less:portfolio diversification 
(28.9)NMNM(32.3)
(21.0)NMNM(28.6)
Total trading VAR 
71.656.999.363.8
67.448.1103.893.3
Investment portfolio andA/L activities(a)97.168.3139.0107.5
107.279.8143.9130.7
Less:portfolio diversification 
(48.4)NMNM(60.0)
(45.4)NMNM(84.2)
Total VAR
(b)$120.3$87.6$160.2$111.3
$129.2$98.2$174.0$139.8
(a) Substantially all of the risk is interest rate-related.
(b) Amounts exclude VAR related to the FirmÕs private equity business.For a discussion of Private equity risk management,see pa
ge 65.NM-Because the minimum and maximum may occur on different days for different risk components,it is not meaningful to compute a 
portfolio diversification effect.In addition,JPMorgan ChaseÕs average and
period-end VARsare less than the sum of the VARs of its market risk components due to risk offsets resulting from portfolio div
ersification.J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report60
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
< (40)(20) > < (10)(10) > < 00 > < 1010 > < 2020 > < 3030 > < 4040 > < 5050 > < 6060 > < 7070 > < 8080 > < 9090 > < 100100 > < 110 > 110(30) > < (20)(40) > < (30)Daily market risk-related revenue
Number of trading days$ in millionsAverage daily revenue: $31.2 million  
The graph below depicts the number of days on which JPMorgan Chase's market risk-related  
revenues fell within particular ranges. The inset graph to the right looks at those days on which  the Firm experienced trading losses and depicts the amount by which the VAR exceeded the 

actual loss on each of those days.20100304050151050Number of trading daysDaily VAR less trading losses
$ in millions<00><2020><4040><6060><80>80151050The average daily market risk-related revenue during 2002 was
$31.2 million. The weakest performance occurred during the

third quarter, when it averaged $18.0 million. This lower revenue

was not due to generally increased risk taken during the quarter,

but rather reflected the outcome of specific positioning decisions.

Performance improved during the fourth quarter, as average daily

market risk-related revenue increased to $33.6 million, while the

average VAR remained slightly below the average for all of 2002.

Thus, the improvement in market risk-related revenues during

the fourth quarter was not accompanied by an overall increase in

the level of risk taken.To evaluate the soundness of its VAR model, the Firm conducts
daily back-testing of VAR against actual financial results, based

on daily market risk-related revenue. The FirmÕs definition of

market risk-related revenue is consistent with the Federal

Reserve BoardÕs implementation of the Basle Committee's 

market risk capital rules. The Federal Reserve BoardÕs guidelines

state that such revenue typically includes fee income and com-

missions associated with trading activities, in addition to realized

and unrealized gains and losses on portfolio positions. The inset

examines the 32 days on which JPMorgan Chase posted trading
losses and depicts the amount by which VAR was greater than

the actual loss on each day. No losses exceeded VAR on any of

these days, a performance statistically consistent with the FirmÕs

99% confidence level.Stress testing
While VAR reflects the risk of loss due to unlikely events in nor-

mal markets, stress testing captures the FirmÕs exposure to

unlikely but plausible events in abnormal markets. Stress testing

is equally important as VAR in measuring and controlling risk.

Stress testing enhances the understanding of the FirmÕs risk pro-

file and loss potential and is used for limits monitoring, cross-

business risk measurement and economic capital allocation.
The Firm stress tests its portfolios at least once a month, at both
the corporate and business segment levels, using multiple sce-
narios.Scenari
os are continually reviewed and updated to reflect
changes in the FirmÕs risk profile and economic events. Stress

results, trends and explanations are provided each month to the
FirmÕs senior management to help them better measure and

manage risks to understand event risk-sensitive positions.Applying economic-value stress tests to the trading and invest-
ment portfolios and A/L activities helps the Firm understand
how the economic value of its balance sheet (not the amounts
reported under GAAP) would change under certain scenarios.61J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Largest monthly stress-test loss Ð pre-tax
AtFor the year 2002December 5,(in millions)AverageMinimumMaximum
2002Stress-test loss Ð pre-tax$(422)$(136)$(727)$(243)
The FirmÕs stress-test methodology assumes that, during an
actual stress event, no action would be taken to change the risk

profile of portfolios. This captures the decreased liquidity that

often occurs with abnormal markets and results, in the FirmÕs

view, in a conservative stress-test result.
Economic-value stress tests are performed at varying dates each
month; the stress results at December 5, 2002, were mostly

driven by exposures sensitive to a stress scenario where credit

spreads widen significantly and, at the same time, equity prices

decline and interest rates fall in the major currencies. 
VAR results cannot be directly correlated to stress-test loss
results for three reasons. First, stress-test losses are calculated at
varying dates each month, while VAR is performed daily and

reported for the period-end date. Second, VAR and stress tests
are two distinct risk measurements yielding very different loss

potentials. Thus, although the same trading portfolios are used

for both tests, VAR is based on a distribution of one-day histori-

cal losses measured over the most recent one year; in contrast,

stress testing subjects the portfolio to more extreme, larger

moves over a longer time horizon (e.g., 2-3 weeks). Third, as

VAR and stress tests are distinct risk measurements, the impact
of portfolio diversification can vary greatly. For VAR, markets can

change in patterns over a one-year time horizon, moving from

highly correlated to less so; in stress testing, the focus is on a

single event and the associated correlations in an extreme mar-

ket situation. As a result, while VAR over a given time horizon

can be lowered by a diversification benefit in the portfolio, this

benefit would not necessarily manifest itself in stress-test scenar-

ios, which assume large coherent moves across all markets.
The Firm conducts both economic-value and NII stress tests on
its investment portfolios and A/L activities, which are not

accounted for on a trading basis. Economic-value stress tests

measure the potential change in the value of these portfolios

under the same scenarios used to evaluate the trading portfo-
lios. The largest potential stress-test loss of these portfolios as of

December 5, 2002, is under a scenario that assumes a sharp
widening in credit spreads and decreases in interest rates. If the

wholesale loan portfolio is excluded, the largest potential stress-

test loss is associated with a scenario that assumes a smaller
widening in credit spreads but also assumes significant declines
The following table represents the potential economic value
stress-test loss (pre-tax) in JPMorgan ChaseÕs trading portfolio

predicted by JPMorgan ChaseÕs stress-test scenarios:
in equity prices and increases in market volatilities. At present,
the economic-value stress tests do not include consumer loans,

the value of which is more difficult to relate to external market

variables; this will be the subject of continued research.
The more conventional NII stress test measures the potential
change in the FirmÕs NII over the next year. These stress tests

highlight exposures to various interest rate-sensitive factors,

such as rates (e.g., the prime-lending rate), pricing strategies on
deposits and changes in product mix. NII stress tests also take

into account forecasted balance sheet changes, such as asset

sales and securitizations, as well as prepayment and reinvest-

ment behavior.
At year-end 2002, JPMorgan ChaseÕs largest potential NII stress
loss was estimated at $277 million, primarily the result of poten-

tial compression in deposit spreads associated with further rate

declines from the current low-rate environment.
Other statistical and nonstatistical risk measures
In addition to VAR, JPMorgan Chase employs the Risk identifica-

tion for large exposures (ÒRIFLEÓ) methodology as another sta-

tistical risk measure. The Firm requires that all market risk-taking

businesses self assess their risks to unusual and specific events.
Individuals who manage risk positions, particularly complex posi-
tions, identify potential Òworst-caseÓ losses that could arise
from an unusual or specific event, such as a potential tax

change, and estimate the probabilities of such losses. Through

the FirmÕs RIFLE system, this information is then directed to the

appropriate level of management, thereby permitting the Firm

to identify further earnings vulnerabilities not adequately cov-

ered by VAR and stress testing.
Nonstatistical risk measures other than stress testing include net
open positions, basis point values, option sensitivities, position
concentrations and position turnover. These measures provide

additional information on an exposureÕs size and the direction in

which it is moving. Nonstatistical measures are used for limit

monitoring, one-off approvals and tactical control.
Capital allocation for market risk The Firm allocates market risk capital guided by the principle
that capital should reflect the extent to which risks are present

in businesses. Daily VAR, monthly stress results and other factors

determine appropriate capital charges for major business lines.

The VAR measure captures a large number of one-day price

moves, while stress tests capture a smaller number of very large

price moves. The Firm allocates market risk capital to each divi-
sion according to a formula that weights that divisionÕs VAR and

stress-test exposures. 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report62
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Risk monitoring and control
LimitsThe Firm controls market risk primarily through a series of limits.
The sizes of limits reflect the FirmÕs risk appetite after extensive

analyses of the market environment and business strategy. The

analyses examine factors such as market volatility, product liquidity,

business track record, and management experience and depth.
The Firm maintains different levels of limits. Corporate-level lim-
its encompass VAR calculations and stress-test loss advisories.

Similarly, business segment levels include limits on VAR calcula-

tions, nonstatistical measurements, and P&L loss advisories.

Businesses are responsible for adhering to established limits,

against which exposures are monitored and reported daily.

Exceeded limits are reported immediately to senior management,

and the affected business unit must take appropriate action to

reduce trading positions. If the business cannot do this withinan acceptable timeframe, senior management is consulted on
the appropriate action. 
Market Risk Management regularly reviews and updates risk 
limits, and the FirmÕs Risk Management Committee reviews 

and approves the risk limits at least twice a year. Market Risk

Management further controls the FirmÕs exposure by specifically

designating approved financial instruments for each business unit.
Qualitative risk assessmentThe FirmÕs Market Risk Management Group also performs peri-

odic reviews of both businesses and products with exposure to

market risk, in order to assess the ability of the businesses to

control market risk. The business managementÕs strategy, mar-

ket conditions, product details and effectiveness of risk controls

are reviewed. Specific recommendations for improvements are

made to management.Model review
Many of the FirmÕs financial instruments cannot be valued based

on quoted market prices, but are instead valued using pricing

models. Such models are used for management of risk posi-

tions, such as reporting risk against limits, as well as for valua-

tion. The Firm reviews the models it uses to assess model appro-

priateness and consistency across businesses. The model reviews

consider a number of issues: appropriateness of the model,

assessing the extent to which it accurately reflects the character-

istics of the transaction and captures its significant risks; inde-

pendence and reliability of data sources; appropriateness and

adequacy of numerical algorithms; and sensitivity to input
parameters or other assumptions which cannot be priced from

the market.Reviews are conducted for new or changed models, as well as
previously accepted models. Re-reviews assess whether there

have been any material changes to the accepted models;

whether there have been any changes in the product or market

that may impact the validity of the model; and whether there

have been new theoretical or competitive developments that

may require a reassessment of the modelÕs adequacy. For a sum-

mary of valuations based on models, see Critical accounting esti-
mates used by the Firm on pages 65Ð67.Policies and procedures
JPMorgan Chase maintains policies and procedures surrounding

market risk management practices. The goal is to specify a clear
set of objectives, responsibilities and procedures throughout the

market risk management infrastructure to produce a consistent

approach to risk measurement, monitoring and control across

business lines.63J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from
inadequate or failed processes or systems, human

factors, or external events.
OverviewOperational risk is inherent in each of the FirmÕs businesses and
support activities. Operational risk can manifest itself in various
ways, including errors, business interruptions, inappropriate

behavior of employees, and vendors not performing in accor-
dance with outsourcing arrangements. These events can poten-

tially result in financial losses and other damage to the Firm,

including causing it reputational harm.
To monitor and control operational risk, the Firm maintains a
system of comprehensive policies and a control framework

designed to provide a sound and well-controlled operational

environment. The goal is to keep operational risk at appropriate

levels, in light of the FirmÕs financial strength, the characteristics

of its businesses, the markets in which it operates, and the com-
petitive and regulatory environment to which it is subject.
Notwithstanding these control measures, the Firm incurs opera-
tional losses. The FirmÕs approach to operational risk manage-

ment is intended to mitigate such losses.Operational risk management practicesThroughout 2002, the Firm continued to execute a multi-year

plan, begun in 2001, for an integrated approach that emphasizes

active management of operational risk throughout the Firm. The

objective of this effort is to supplement the traditional control-

based approach to operational risk with risk measures, tools and

disciplines that are risk-specific, consistently applied and utilized

Firm-wide. Key themes for this effort are transparency of informa-

tion, escalation of key issues, and accountability for issue resolution.

Ultimate responsibility for the FirmÕs operational risk management

practices resides with the Vice Chairman for Finance, Risk

Management and Administration. The components are:
Governance structure:
The governance structure provides the
framework for the FirmÕs operational risk management activities.

Primary responsibility for managing operational risk rests with

business managers. These individuals are responsible for estab-

lishing and maintaining appropriate internal control procedures

for their respective businesses. 
The Operational Risk Committee is comprised of senior opera-tional risk and finance managers from each of the businesses.

This committee meets quarterly to discuss key operational risk
issues of importance to the Firm. In addition, each of the busi-
nesses must maintain business control committees to oversee

their operational risk management practices.Self-assessment process:
In 2002, the Firm continued to refine
its Firm-wide self-assessment process. The focus of the process is

for each business to identify the key operational risks specific to
its environment, and assess the degree to which it is maintaining

appropriate controls. Action plans are developed for control

issues identified, and businesses are held accountable for tracking

and resolving these issues on a timely basis.
Self-assessments are completed by the businesses utilizing
Horizon, a software application developed by the Firm. With the

aid of Horizon, the Firm moved in 2002 from an annual, year-

end self-assessment process to one performed semiannually.

Going forward, the Firm plans to utilize this self-assessment

process as an ongoing, dynamic risk management tool. 
Operational risk-event monitoring:The Firm has a process
for reporting operational risk-event data, permitting analyses of

errors and losses as well as trends. Such analyses, performed

both at a line-of-business level and by risk-event type, enables
identification of root causes associated with risk events faced by

the businesses. Where available, the internal data can be sup-

plemented with external data for comparative analysis with

industry patterns. The data reported will also enable the Firm to

back-test against self-assessment results. 
Audit alignment:In addition to conducting independent inter-nal audits, the FirmÕs internal audit department has provided

guidance on the design and implementation of the operational
risk framework. This guidance has helped further the Firm-wide¥Operational risk management is a principal risk discipline within the Firm¥Business managers are responsible for maintaining an effective
system of internal controls to manage operational risk 
¥The Firm is executing a multi-year plan for an integrated approach
to measuring, analyzing, and managing operational risk¥Reputation risk arises when the Firm does not adequately manageits credit, market and operational risks, or does not maintain

business practices of the highest ethical qualityOperational risk management practices¥Governance structure
- Operational risk policies and procedures

- Operational Risk Committee
- Business Control Committees
¥Self-assessment process
- Focused on business-specific key risks and controls

- Automated using Horizon software application

- Develop and monitor action plans¥Operational risk event monitoring- Internal error and loss data reported and analyzed to determine
causal factors- Enables comparative analysis with external data (where available)
¥Alignment with internal audit activities
¥New capital allocation methodology (2003 implementation)Operational risk managementJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report64
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
implementation of the framework, which in turn has led to a
stronger overall control environment. The department utilizes

output such as business self-assessment results to help focus

allocation of its resources, thereby maximizing the efficiencies 

of its internal audit responsibilities. The department also reviews

the effectiveness and accuracy of the self-assessment process

during the conduct of audits.Capital allocation for operational and business riskHistorically, a combined capital amount for operational risk and

business risk (collectively referred to as Òoperating riskÓ capital)

was derived through top-down benchmarking, by business,

against comparable financial institutions. In 2003, a new risk-
based capital allocation methodology will replace the existing

approach. The new methodology will separate operating risk

capital into its two discrete components, operational risk and

business risk. The new approach will estimate these risks inde-

pendently and allocate capital to each component. It is estimat-
ed that this new approach will result in a lower amount of capi-

tal than previously calculated.
Operational Risk: The new operational risk capital model is loss-based, with adjustments to reflect changes in the quality of the

control environment, and with a potential offset for the use of

risk-transfer products. The Firm believes that the model will be

consistent with the proposed Basle II Accord, and expects to

propose it eventually for qualification under the Advanced

Measurement Approach for operational risk.
Business Risk: Business risk capital represents the risk associated
with the volatility in the FirmÕs earnings due to factors not cap-

tured by other parts of the FirmÕs economic capital framework.

Such volatility can arise from ineffective design or execution of 

business strategies, volatile economic or financial market activity,

changing client expectations and demands, and restructuring to

adjust for changes in the competitive environment. Capital will be

allocated to each business based on historical revenue volatility

and measures of fixed and variable expenses. Earnings volatility

arising from other risk factors, such as credit or market risk, will

be excluded from the measurement of business risk capital, as

these factors are captured under those risk capital models.
Reputation risk A firmÕs success depends not only on its prudent management 

of credit, market and operational risks, but equally on the main-

tenance of its reputation among many constituents Ð clients,

investors, regulators, as well as the general public Ð for business

practices of the highest quality.
Attention to its reputation has always been a key aspect of the
FirmÕs practices and maintenance of reputation is everyoneÕs

responsibility. The Firm bolsters this individual responsibility in
many ways: codes of ethics, training, policies and oversight functions that approve transactions, including a Conflicts Office
to examine transactions with the potential to create conflicts of

interest or roles for the Firm.
During 2002, the Firm put in place an additional structure to
take account of the potential for adverse reputational impact of

transactions with clients, especially complex derivatives and struc-
tured finance transactions. The structure reinforces the FirmÕs

procedures for examining transactions in terms of appropriate-

ness, ethical issues and reputational risk and intensifies the FirmÕs

scrutiny of the purpose and effect of its transactions from the

clientÕs point of view with the goal that these transactions are

not used to deceive investors or others. This new structure oper-

ates at three levels: as part of every businessÕ transaction

approval process, review by regional Policy Review Committees,

and oversight by the Policy Review Office.
Business transaction approval
Primary responsibility for adherence with the policies and proce-

dures designed to address reputation risk lies with the business

units conducting the transactions in question. This transaction
approval process requires review and sign-off from, among others,

internal legal/compliance, conflicts, tax and accounting policy

groups. Transactions involving an SPE established by the Firm

receive particular scrutiny and must comply with a Special-Purpose Vehicle Policy, designed to ensure that every such entity

is properly approved, documented, monitored and controlled.
Regional policy review committees
Business units are also required to submit to regional Policy Review

Committees proposed transactions that may raise reputation risk

for any reason Ð including, where applicable, intended financial

disclosure of the transaction by the client Ð and the committees

approve, reject or require further clarification or changes. The

members of these committees are senior representatives of the

business and support units in the region. The committees may

escalate transaction review to the Policy Review Office.
Policy review office
The Policy Review Office is the most senior approval level for

client transactions involving reputation issues. The mandate of

the Office is to opine on specific transactions brought by the

Regional Committees and consider changes in policies or prac-
tices relating to reputation risk. The head of the Office consults

with the FirmÕs most senior executives on specific topics and

provides regular updates.
Aside from governance and guidance on specific transactions,
the objective of the policy review process is to reinforce a cul-

ture, through a Òcase-studyÓ approach, which ensures that all

employees, regardless of seniority, understand the basic princi-

ples of reputation risk control and can recognize and address

issues as they arise.65J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Risk managementJPMorgan Partners employs processes for risk measurement and
control that are similar to those used for other businesses within 

the Firm. The processes are coordinated with the FirmÕs overall

approach to market and concentration risk. Private equity risk is 

initially monitored through the use of industry and geographic 

limits. Additionally, to manage the pace of new investment, a

ceiling on the amount of annual private equity investment activi-
ty has been set.JPMorgan PartnersÕ public equity holdings create a significant
exposure to general declines in the equity markets. To gauge

that risk, VAR and stress-test exposures are calculated in the

same way as they are for the FirmÕs trading, investment and

asset/liability management portfolios. During the year, JPMP

management undertook frequent reviews of its public security

holdings as part of a disciplined approach to sales and hedging

issues. Hedging programs are very limited, but are considered
Private equity risk managementCritical accounting estimates used by the Firm  when practical and as circumstances dictate. Over time, the Firm
may change the nature and type of hedges it enters into, as

well as close a hedging position altogether.
Capital allocation for private equity riskInternal capital is allocated to JPMPÕs public equities portfolio

based on stress scenarios that are similar to those applied to

other businesses, and which reflects the potential loss inherent

in the portfolio in the event of a large equity market decline.
Capital is also allocated against illiquidity risk, which results from

the contractual sales restrictions to which some holdings are

subject. For private equities, capital is allocated based on a long-
term equity market stress scenario that is consistent with the

investment time horizons associated with these holdings. For
these investments, additional capital is allocated against the risk
of an unexpectedly large number of write-offs or write-downs.

The overall internal capital allocation is approximately 53% of

the investmentsÕ carrying value.The FirmÕs accounting policies and use of estimates are integral

to understanding the results reported. The FirmÕs most complex

accounting estimates require managementÕs judgment to ascer-

tain the valuation of assets and liabilities. The Firm has estab-
lished detailed policies and control procedures that are intended

to ensure valuation methods, including any judgments made,

are well controlled, independently reviewed and applied consis-

tently from period to period. In addition, the policies and proce-

dures are intended to ensure that the process for changing

methodologies occurs in an appropriate manner. The Firm

believes its estimates for determining the valuation of its assets
and liabilities are appropriate. 
The following is a brief description of the FirmÕs critical accounting
estimates involving significant management valuation judgments.Allowance for Credit Losses 
JPMorgan ChaseÕs Allowance for credit losses covers the com-

mercial and consumer loan portfolios as well as the FirmÕs port-

folio of lending-related commitments. The allowance for loan

losses is intended to adjust the value of the FirmÕs loan assets

for probable credit losses as of the balance sheet date in 

accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.

Management also computes an allowance for lending-related

commitments using a methodology similar to that used for the
commercial loan portfolio. For a further discussion of the

methodologies used in establishing the Firm's Allowance for
credit losses, see Note 10 on page 82.
Commercial loans and lending-related commitments
The methodology for calculating both allowances involves signifi-
cant judgment. First and foremost, it involves the early identifica-

tion of credits that are deteriorating. Second, it involves manage-

ment judgment to derive loss factors.The Firm uses a risk rating system to determine the credit quality
of its loans. Commercial loans are reviewed for information

affecting the obligorÕs ability to fulfill its obligations. In assessing

the risk rating of a particular loan, among the factors considered

include the obligorÕs debt capacity and financial flexibility, the level

of the obligorÕs earnings, the amount and sources of repayment,

the level and nature of contingencies, management strength, and

the industry and geography in which the obligor operates. These
factors are based on an evaluation of historical information, as

well as subjective assessment and interpretation. Emphasizing one

factor over another or considering additional factors that may be
relevant in determining the risk rating of a particular loan, butwhich are not currently an explicit part of the FirmÕs methodology,

could impact the risk rating assigned by the Firm to that loan.Management also applies its judgment to derive loss factors asso-ciated with each credit facility. These loss factors are determined

by facility structure, collateral and type of obligor. Wherever possi-

ble, the Firm uses independent, verifiable data or the FirmÕs own

historical loss experience in its models for estimating these loss
factors. Many factors can affect managementÕs estimates of spe-

cific loss and expected loss, including volatility of default probabil-

ities, rating migrations and loss severity. For example, judgment is
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report66
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
required to determine how many years of data to include when
estimating the possible severity of the loss. If a full credit cycle is

not captured in the data, then estimates may be inaccurate.

Likewise, judgment is applied to determine whether the loss
severity factor should be calculated as an average over the entire

credit cycle or whether to apply the loss severity factor implied at

a particular point in the credit cycle. The application of different

loss severity factors would change the amount of the allowance
for credit losses determined appropriate by the Firm. Similarly,

there are judgments as to which external data on default proba-

bilities should be used, and when they should be used. Choosing
data that are not reflective of the FirmÕs specific loan portfolio

characteristics could affect loss estimates.
As noted above, the Firm's allowance for loan losses is sensitive tothe risk rating assigned to a loan. Assuming, for all commercial

loans, a one-notch downgrade in the Firm's internal risk ratings,

the allowance for loan losses for commercial loans would increase

by approximately $850 million at December 31, 2002. This sensitiv-

ity analysis is hypothetical and should be used with caution. The
purpose of this analysis is to provide an indication of the impact

risk ratings have on the estimate of the allowance for loan losses
for commercial loans. It is not intended to imply managementÕs

expectation of future deterioration in risk ratings. Given the

process the Firm follows in determining risk ratings of its loans,

management believes the current risk ratings assigned to commer-

cial loans are appropriate and the likelihood of a one-notch down-

grade for all commercial loans is remote.
Consumer loansThe consumer portfolio is segmented into three main business

lines: Chase Home Finance, Chase Cardmember Services and

Chase Auto Finance. For each major portfolio segment within each
line of business, there are three primary factors that are considered

in determining the expected loss component of the allowance for
loan losses: period-end outstandings, expected loss factor, and

average life. The various components of these factors, such as 
collateral, prepayment rates, credit score distributions, collections,

and the historical loss experience of a business segment, differ

across business lines. For example, credit card revolving credit has

significantly higher charge-off ratios than fixed mortgage credit.

Determination of each factor is based primarily on statistical data
and macroeconomic assumptions.
Residual component ManagementÕs judgments are also applied when considering

uncertainties that relate to current macroeconomic and political

conditions, the impact of currency devaluation on cross-border

exposures, changes in underwriting standards, unexpected corre-

lations within the portfolio, or other factors. For example, judg-
ment as to political developments in a particular country willaffect managementÕs assessment of potential loss in the credits
that have exposure to that country. A separate allowance compo-

nent, the residual component, is maintained to cover these uncer-

tainties, principally, at December 31, 2002, in the commercial

portfolio. It is anticipated that the residual component will range

between 10% and 20% of the total allowance for credit losses.
Fair value of financial instruments A portion of JPMorgan ChaseÕs assets and liabilities are carried at

fair value, including trading assets and liabilities, AFS securities and
private equity investments. Mortgage servicing rights are carried at

the lower of fair value or cost. At December 31, 2002, approxi-

mately $369 billion of the FirmÕs assets were recorded at fair value. 
Fair value is defined as the value at which positions could beclosed out or sold in a transaction with a willing and knowledge-
able counterparty over a period of time consistent with JPMorgan
ChaseÕs trading or investment strategy. The majority of the FirmÕs

assets reported at fair value are based on quoted market prices

or on internally developed models that are based on independ-

ently sourced market parameters, including interest rate yield

curves, option volatilities and currency rates. The valuation

process takes into consideration factors such as liquidity and con-

centration concerns and, for the derivative portfolio, counterparty

credit risk. See the discussion of CVA on page 51. Management

applies judgment in determining the factors used in the valuation
process. For example, there is often limited market data to rely

on when estimating the fair value of a large or aged position.
Similarly, judgment must be applied in estimating prices for less

readily observable external parameters. Finally, other factors such
as model assumptions, market dislocations and unexpected cor-
relations can affect estimates of fair value. Imprecision in estimat-
ing these factors can impact the amount of revenue or loss

recorded for a particular position.
Trading and available-for-sale portfolios
Substantially all of the FirmÕs securities held for trading and
investment purposes (ÒlongÓ positions) and securities that the
Firm has sold to other parties but does not own (ÒshortÓ posi-
tions) are valued based on quoted market prices. However, cer-

tain of the securities, for example high yield instruments, are less

actively traded. The determination of their fair value requires

management judgment, as this determination may require

benchmarking to similar instruments or analyzing default and
recovery rates.As few derivative contracts are listed on an exchange, the major-
ity of the FirmÕs derivative positions are valued using internally

developed models that use as their basis readily observable mar-

ket parameters Ñ that is, parameters that are actively quoted

and can be validated to external sources, including industry-pricing
67J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
services. Certain derivatives, however, are valued based on mod-
els with significant unobservable market parameters Ñ that is,
parameters that may be estimated and are, therefore, subject to

management judgment to substantiate the model valuation.
These instruments are less actively traded and could include, for

example, long-dated interest rate or currency swaps, where

swap rates may be unobservable for longer maturities.Management judgment includes recording fair value adjust-
ments (i.e., reductions) to model valuations to account for

parameter uncertainty when valuing complex or less actively
traded derivative transactions. The following table summarizes the FirmÕs trading and available-for-
sale portfolios by valuation methodology at December 31, 2002:
Trading assetsTrading liabilities
SecuritiesSecuritiesAFS
purchased(a)Derivatives
(b)sold(a)Derivatives
(b)securitiesFair value based on:Quoted market prices
82%4%93%4%98%
Internal models with significant observable market parameters
15946952
Internal models with significant unobservable market parameters
3211Ñ
Total 100%100%100%100%100%
(a) Reflected as Debt and equity instruments on the FirmÕs Consolidated balance sheet.
(b) Based on valuations of the FirmÕs derivative portfolio prior to FIN 39 netting,as cross-product netting is not relevant to 
a discussion on valuation methodologies.Therefore,the analysis is based on gross
mark-to-market values.
To ensure that the valuations are appropriate, the Firm has vari-
ous controls in place. These include: an independent review and

approval of valuation models; detailed review and explanation for

profit and loss analyzed daily and through time; decomposingthe

model valuations for certain structured derivative instruments

into their components and benchmarking valuations where 

possible to similar products; and validating valuation estimates

through actual cash settlement. As markets and products develop

and the pricing for certain derivative products becomes more

transparent, the Firm refines its valuation methodologies. The

Valuation Control Group within the Finance area is responsible
for reviewing the accuracy of the valuations of all positions

taken within the Investment Bank.For a discussion of market risk management, including themodel review process, see pages 58Ð62. For a discussion of the

developments affecting the accounting for trading derivatives,

see page 68. For further details on the trading and AFS portfo-
lios, see Note 3 and Note 7, respectively.
Private equity investmentsValuation of private investments held by JPMorgan Partnersrequires significant management judgment due to the absence
of quoted market prices, inherent lack of liquidity and long-term

nature of such assets. Private investments are initially valued

based on cost. The carrying values of private investments are

adjusted from cost to reflect both positive and negative changes

evidenced by financing events with third-party capital providers.

In addition, these investments are subject to ongoing impairment

reviews by JPMP's senior investment professionals. A varietyof
factors are reviewed and monitored to assess impairment,
including but not limited to, operating performance and future

expectations, comparable industry valuations of public companies,
changes in market outlook, and third-party financing environ-

ment over time. For additional information about private equity
investments, see the Private equity risk management 
discussion on page 65 and Note 13 on page 88.MSRs and certain other retained interests
MSRs and certain other retained interests from securitization

activities do not trade in an active open market with readily

observable prices. For example, sales of MSRs do occur, but the

precise terms and conditions are typically not readily available. As

such, the Firm estimates the fair value of MSRs and certain other
retained interests using a discounted future cash flow model.The
model considers portfolio characteristics, contractually specified
servicing fees and prepayment assumptions, delinquent rates,

late charges, other ancillary revenues, costs to service and other

economic factors. The Firm compares its fair value estimates 

and assumptions to observable market data where available 

and to recent market activity and actual portfolio experience.

Management believes that the fair values and related assump-

tions are comparable to those used by other market participants.

For a further discussion of the most significant assumptions used
to value these retained interests, as well as the applicable stress

tests for those assumptions, see Notes 11 and 12 on pages
83Ð87 and 87Ð88, respectively.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report68
ManagementÕs discussion and analysis
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Accounting for stock-based compensationIn August 2002, JPMorgan Chase announced its decision to adoptSFAS 123, beginning January 2003. SFAS 123 establishes account-

ing for stock-based compensation that requires all such transac-

tions, including stock options, to be accounted for at fair value
and such amounts to be recognized in earnings. The Firm adopted

the fair value provisions of SFAS 123 effective January 1, 2003,

using the prospective transition method. Under this method, all

new awards granted to employees on or after January 1, 2003 

will be accounted for at fair value. Awards outstanding as of

December 31, 2002, if not subsequently modified, continue to be
accounted for under APB 25. It is estimated that the adoption of
SFAS 123, with respect to employee stock-based compensation

awards granted in February 2003, will reduce the FirmÕs net

income by approximately $0.08 per share in 2003. 
Consolidation of variable interest entities
In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46. The entities that would

be assessed for consolidation under FIN 46 are typically referred to

as Special-Purpose Entities (ÒSPEsÓ), although other non-SPE-type
entities may also be subject to the guidance. FIN 46 requires a vari-

able interest entity to be consolidated by a company if that com-

pany is subject to a majority of the risk of loss from the variable

interest entityÕs activities or entitled to receive a majority of the

entityÕs residual returns, or both. The provisions are effective for

any new entities that are originated subsequent to January 31,

2003. For entities that were originated prior to February 1, 2003,

the provisions of FIN 46 are effective July 1, 2003.
The Firm is assessing the impact of FIN 46 on all variable interest
entities with which it is involved, including the multi-seller con-
duit transactions that are further described in Note 11 on pages

83Ð87. In their current form, these conduits would be required

to be consolidated on the FirmÕs balance sheet when FIN 46 is

implemented. The Firm is assessing restructuring alternatives

associated with the multi-seller conduits. ManagementÕs assess-

ment of possible consolidations of other entities that could be
deemed variable interest entities is ongoing as well. However, at

this time, the Firm does not believe that the implementation of
FIN 46 will have a material impact on the FirmÕs Consolidated

balance sheet, earnings or capital resources. 
Guarantor disclosures
In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45, which

requires a guarantor to recognize, at inception of a guarantee, a
liability for the fair value of the obligation undertaken in issuing
the guarantee. FIN 45 also requires certain disclosures to be

made by a guarantor in its interim and annual financial state-
ments about its obligations under certain guarantees that it has
issued. The disclosure requirements of this Interpretation are

effective for financial statements ending December 31, 2002.

The initial recognition and measurement provisions of this

Interpretation are applicable on a prospective basis to guarantees
issued or modified after December 31, 2002. The application ofFIN 45 will not have a material impact on the FirmÕs Consolidated

statement of income or Consolidated balance sheet. See Note 29
on pages 102Ð103 for FIN 45 disclosures.
Accounting for trading derivativesIn October 2002, the Emerging Issues Task Force concluded on

Issue 02Ð03, which precludes mark-to-market accounting for energy-

related contracts that do not meet the definition of a derivativeunder SFAS 133 (e.g., transportation, storage, or capacity contracts)

effective January 1, 2003. This decision will not have a material

impact on the FirmÕs Consolidated statement of income. In

November 2002, as part of the discussion of Issue 02Ð03, the
FASB staff further 
confirmed their view that an entity should notrecognize profit at the 
inceptionof a 
trade involving a derivativefinancial instrument in the absence of: (a) quoted market prices in
an active market, (b) observable prices of other current market

transactions, or (c) other observable data supporting a valuation
technique. This clarification did not have a material impact on the
FirmÕs Consolidated statement of income in 2002. The FASB

intends in 2003 to continue its focus on issues relating to the fair

value of financial instruments. Impairment of long-lived assetsIn August 2001, the FASB issued SFAS 144, which addresses finan-

cialaccounting and reporting for the impairment and/or disposal
of long-lived assets. SFAS 144 supersedes and resolves certain

implementation issues of SFAS 121, but retains its fundamental

provisions for (a) the recognition and measurement of the impair-

ment of long-lived assets to be held and used and (b) the meas-
urement of long-lived assets to be disposed of by sale. SFAS 144

also supersedes the business segment disposal provisions of APB

30, but retains its requirement to report discontinued operations

separately from continuing operations and broadens its definition

of discontinued operations from Òsegment of a businessÓ (activities

that represent a major line of business or customer) to Òcomponent

of an entityÓ (operations and cash flows that can clearly be distin-
guished, operationally and for financial reporting purposes, from

the rest of the entity). SFAS 144 does not significantly affect the

FirmÕs operating results. The Firm performs periodic impairment

reviews of its long-lived assets in accordance with SFAS 144, and
there are no discontinued operations to report in 2002.
Accounting for costs associated with exit or disposal activitiesIn June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS 146, which establishes new
accounting for costs associated with exit or disposal activities initiat-
ed after December 31, 2002. SFAS 146 requires a liability for a cost

associated with an exit or disposal activity to be recorded when that

liability is incurred and can be measured at fair value. Under the pre-

vious rules, if management approved an exit plan in one quarter, the

costs of that plan generally would have been recorded in the same

quarter even if the costs were not incurred until a later quarter. In
Accounting and reporting developments
69J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Comparison between 2001 and 2000 JPMorgan Chase reported 2001 net income of $1.7 billion, com-
pared with net income of $5.7 billion in 2000. Reported net 
incomeper share was $0.80 in 2001, compared with $2.86 in 2000.
Total reported revenues for 2001 of $29.3 billion were down
12% from the prior year. These results reflected losses on private

equity investments and, to a lesser degree, lower investment

banking fees and trading revenues, which included $359 million

of losses related to exposure to Enron and Argentina. Also con-

tributing to the decline were net gains on sales of nonstrategic

assets of $1.3 billion in 2000. The revenue declines were partially

offset by higher net interest income, primarily from higher vol-

umes of interest-earning assets (particularly credit card receivables

and residential mortgages), and security gains from sales of AFS

securities that had been positioned to benefit from 2001Õs low

interest rate environment. 
The FirmÕs business segments reported mixed revenue results in
2001. In IB, revenues were lower than the prior year, reflecting the

overall market decline in equity underwriting and M&A activities;
record fees from bond underwriting due to lower interest rates
partially offset these declines. Trading-related revenues in 2001

were also lower than in 2000, primarily driven by thinner margins

on sales of equity securities and a reduced demand for equity

derivatives. IMPBÕs revenues declined from the prior year reflecting

the lower value of assets under supervision, a lower volume of
international retail fund flows and a reduction in the number of

brokerage transactions. There was also a decrease in fees driven by

clients shifting from higher-margin equity to lower-margin fixed-

income products. JPMP recognized private equity losses of $1.2 bil-

lion in 2001, compared with gains of $1.0 billion in 2000, attribut-

able to unfavorable valuation adjustments on both publicly- and
privately-held investments Ð particularly in the telecommunications,
media and technology sectors. Offsetting these revenue declines

was a slight increase in revenue at T&SS, reflecting revenue growth

at Institutional Trust Services and Treasury Services, partially offset

by a decline at Investor Services resulting from depressed market

prices for equity securities and lower interest rates. CFS had solid

revenue growth, driven by greater consumer loan originations and
higher fees from increased utilization of consumer banking and
insurance products in 2001. While revenue was reduced by the
negative effects of increased levels of mortgage loan prepayments

due to lower interest rates, these declines were substantially offset

by increased securities gains and record mortgage sales activity. 
The FirmÕs total reported noninterest expense was $23.6 billion in
2001, up 2% from 2000, reflecting higher merger and restructuring

costs, partly offset by lower compensation expense. Merger and

restructuring costs increased to $2.5 billion in 2001 from $1.4 billion
in 2000. The increase was primarily related to costs associated with

the merger of J.P. Morgan and Chase, including systems integration,

realignment of facilities and retention or severance payments.
Compensation expense fell 6%, driven by staff reductions and lower

incentive compensation as a result of the decline in earnings.
At the business-segment level, IB, IMPB and JPMP all reported
lower noninterest expense largely driven by reductions in head-

count related to the merger and lower incentive compensation.

T&SS expenses rose slightly as a result of strategic investments

across its three businesses, offset by expense-control initiatives. 

CFS also reported higher expenses in 2001, stemming from higher

mortgage loan servicing costs, the acquisition of Advanta Corp.Õs

mortgage business and higher credit card marketing costs; these

costs were partially offset by savings achieved through restructur-

ing, productivity and quality programs.
The provision for credit losses in 2001 rose to $3.2 billion from
$1.4 billion in 2000. The increase reflected the impact of higher

net charge-offs in both the commercial and consumer loan portfo-

lios, as well as an increase in the loan loss allowance by $850 mil-

lion (due to provisions in excess of net charge-offs). The increase in

commercial charge-offs was primarily the result of higher domestic

commercial net charge-offs, particularly in the telecom and related

sector and for Enron. The higher charge-offs in the consumer loan

portfolio were due to higher consumer bankruptcy levels, as well

as higher nonbankruptcy-related losses.
Income tax expense in 2001 was $847 million, compared with $3.0
billion in 2000. The effective tax rate was 33% for 2001, compared

with 34% for 2000. The decrease in the effective tax rate was prin-

cipally the result of the decrease in reported pre-tax income.
contrast, under SFAS 146, some costs may qualify for immediate
recognition, while other costs may be incurred over one or more
quarters. The impact of SFAS 146 will be to spread out the timing of

the recognition of costs associated with exit or disposal activities.
Allowance for loan lossesIn 1999, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee of the

American Institute of Certified Public Accountants formed the
Allowance for Loan Losses Task Force (ÒTask ForceÓ) to research

current accounting guidance and practices as they relate to loan

losses. It is currently expected that the Task Force will issue an
exposure draft of a statement of position in 2003 that will provide
additional accounting and reporting guidance and clarification of

the factors to consider in determining the allowance for loan losses.Goodwill and other intangible assetsEffective January 1, 2002, the Firm adopted SFAS 142 which

establishes the accounting for intangible assets (other than
those acquired in a business combination). It also addresses the

accounting for goodwill and other intangible assets subsequent
to an acquisition. For a further discussion on the adoption of
SFAS 142, see Note 14.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report70
ManagementÕs report on responsibility for financial reporting
and Report of independent accountants  J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
To our stockholders:
The management of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. has the responsibility
for preparing the accompanying consolidated financial statements

and for their integrity and objectivity. The statements were prepared

in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the

United States of America. The consolidated financial statements
include amounts that are based on managementÕs best estimates and

judgments. Management also prepared the other information in the

Annual Report and is responsible for its accuracy and consistency

with the consolidated financial statements.Management maintains a comprehensive system of internal control
to provide reasonable assurance of the proper authorization of

transactions, the safeguarding of assets and the reliability of the

financial records. The system of internal control provides for appro-

priate division of responsibility and is documented by written 

policiesand pr
ocedures that are communicated to employees. 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. maintains a strong internal auditing pro-

gram that independently assesses the effectiveness of the system 

of internal control and recommends possible improvements.

Management believes that at December 31, 2002, J.P. Morgan

Chase & Co. maintained an effective system of internal control.
The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors reviews the systems
of internal control and financial reporting. The Committee, which is

comprised of directors who are independent from J.P. Morgan

Chase & Co., meets and consults regularly with management, the

internal auditors and the independent accountants to review the

scope and results of their work.
The accounting firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP has performedan independent audit of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.Õs financial state-

ments. Management has made available to PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP all of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.Õs financial records and related

data, as well as the minutes of stockholdersÕ and directorsÕ meet-

ings. Furthermore, management believes that all representations

made to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP during its audit were valid

and appropriate. The accounting firmÕs report appears below.
To the Board of Directors and stockholders of 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.: 
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets andthe related consolidated statements of income, of changes in

stockholdersÕ equity and of cash flows present fairly, in all material

respects, the financial position of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. and its
subsidiaries at December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001, and
the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the

three years in the period ended December 31, 2002, in conformity

with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of 

J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.'s management; our responsibility is to

express an opinion on these financial statements based on our

audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance

with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of

America, which require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on

a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in

the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used
and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our

audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
As noted in Note 14 to the financial statements, J.P. Morgan Chase 
& Co. adopted, as of January 1, 2002, Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.
January 21, 2003PRICEWATERHOUSE
COOPERSLLP¥ 1177 A
VENUEOFTHE
AMERICAS¥ NEWYORK,NY 10036William B. Harrison, Jr.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Marc J. Shapiro
Vice Chairman Finance, Risk Management and AdministrationDina DublonExecutive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
January 21, 200371J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share data)
200220012000
RevenueInvestment banking fees$2,763$3,612$4,362
Trading revenue2,5944,9186,298
Fees and commissions10,7569,4819,466
Private equity Ð realized gains (losses)
(105)6512,051
Private equity Ð unrealized gains (losses)
(641)(1,884)(1,036)
Securities gains 1,563866229
Other revenue1,1588982,304
Total noninterest revenue18,08818,54223,674
Interest income25,28432,18136,643
Interest expense13,75821,37927,131
Net interest income11,52610,8029,512
Revenue before provision for credit losses 29,61429,34433,186
Provision for credit losses4,3313,1821,380
Total net revenue25,28326,16231,806
ExpenseCompensation expense10,98311,84412,639
Occupancy expense1,6061,3481,294
Technology and communications expense
2,5542,6312,454
Amortization of intangibles323729528
Other expense4,7884,5214,727
Surety settlement and litigation reserve1,300ÑÑMerger and restructuring costs
1,2102,5231,431
Total noninterest expense22,76423,59623,073
Income before income tax expense and effect of accounting change2,519
2,5668,733
Income tax expense8568473,006
Income before effect of accounting change1,663
1,7195,727
Net effect of change in accounting principle
Ñ(25)Ñ
Net income$1,663
$1,694$5,727
Net income applicable to common stock$1,612
$1,628$5,631
Average common shares outstanding
Basic1,9841,9721,884
Diluted2,0092,0241,969
Net income per common share
(a)Basic$0.81$0.83$2.99
Diluted0.800.802.86
Cash dividends per common share
1.361.361.28
(a)Basic and diluted earnings per share have been reduced by $0.01 in 2001 because of the impact of the adoption of SFAS 133 re
lating to the accounting for derivative instruments and 
hedging activities.
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
Consolidated statement of incomeJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co. 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report72
December 31,(in millions,except share data)
20022001AssetsCash and due from banks
$19,218$22,600Deposits with banks
8,94212,743Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements
65,80963,727Securities borrowed34,14336,580Trading assets:Debt and equity instruments (including assets pledged of $88,900 in 2002 and $48,570 in 2001)165,199118,248Derivative receivables
83,10271,157Securities:Available-for-sale (including assets pledged of $50,468 in 2002 and $30,178 in 2001)
84,03259,284Held-to-maturity (fair value:$455 in 2002 and $490 in 2001)
431476Loans (net of allowance for loan losses of $5,350 in 2002 and $4,524 in 2001)
211,014212,920Private equity investments
8,2289,197Accrued interest and accounts receivable
14,13714,799Premises and equipment6,8296,292Goodwill8,0968,336Mortgage servicing rights3,2306,579Other intangibles:Purchased credit card relationships 1,269519All other intangibles 30744Other assets44,81450,074Total assets$758,800$693,575LiabilitiesDeposits:U.S.:
Noninterest-bearing$74,664$69,364Interest-bearing109,743105,058Non-U.S.:
Noninterest-bearing7,3657,610Interest-bearing112,981111,618Total deposits304,753293,650Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements
169,483128,445Commercial paper16,59118,510Other borrowed funds8,94610,835Trading liabilities:Debt and equity instruments
66,86452,988Derivative payables
66,22756,063Accounts payable,accrued expenses and other liabilities (including the 
allowance for lending-related commitments of $363 in 2002 and $282 in 2001)
38,44047,813Long-term debt39,75139,183Guaranteed preferred beneficial interests in the FirmÕs junior
subordinated deferrable interest debentures
5,4394,439Total liabilities716,494651,926Commitments and contingencies (see Note 27)Preferred stock of subsidiary
Ñ550StockholdersÕ equity
Preferred stock1,0091,009Common stock (authorized 4,500,000,000 shares,
issued 2,023,566,387 shares in 2002 and 1,996,929,012 shares in 2001)2,0241,997Capital surplus13,22212,495Retained earnings25,85126,993Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)1,227(442)Treasury stock,at cost (24,859,844 shares in 2002 and 23,545,702 shares in 2001)
(1,027)(953)Total stockholdersÕ equity
42,30641,099Total liabilities,preferred stock of subsidiary and stockholdersÕ equity
$758,800$693,575The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
Consolidated balance sheetJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co. 
73J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share data)
200220012000
Preferred stock
Balance at beginning of year$1,009$1,520$1,622
Redemption of stockÑ(450)(100)
Retirement of treasury stockÑÑ(2)Purchase of treasury stockÑ(61)Ñ
Balance at end of year1,0091,0091,520
Common stockBalance at beginning of year1,9971,9401,625
Issuance of common stock for a three-for-two stock split
ÑÑ441Issuance of common stock2755Ñ
Issuance of common stock for purchase accounting acquisitionsÑ2ÑRetirement of treasury stockÑÑ(126)Balance at end of year2,0241,9971,940
Capital surplusBalance at beginning of year12,49511,59812,724
Issuance of common stock and options for purchase accounting acquisitionsÑ79136
Retirement of treasury stockÑÑ(237)Issuance of common stock for a three-for-two stock split
ÑÑ(441)Shares issued and commitments to issue common stock foremployee stock-based awards and related tax effects
727818(584)
Balance at end of year13,22212,49511,598
Retained earningsBalance at beginning of year26,99328,09628,455
Net income1,6631,6945,727
Retirement of treasury stockÑÑ(3,636)Cash dividends declared:Preferred stock (51)(66)(96)
Common stock ($1.36,$1.36and $1.28 per share)
(2,754)(2,731)(2,354)
Balance at end of year25,85126,99328,096
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)
Balance at beginning of year(442)(241)(1,428)
Other comprehensive income (loss)1,669(201)1,187
Balance at end of year1,227(442)(241)
Treasury stock,at cost
Balance at beginning of year(953)(575)(7,942)
Retirement of treasury stockÑÑ4,001Purchase of treasury stockÑ(871)(2,950)
Reissuance from treasury stock1077103,039
Reissuance from treasury stock for purchase accounting acquisitions
ÑÑ3,415Forfeitures to treasury stock(181)(217)(138)
Balance at end of year (1,027)(953)(575)
Total stockholdersÕ equity
$42,306$41,099$42,338
Comprehensive income
Net income$1,663$1,694$5,727
Other comprehensive income (loss)1,669(201)1,187
Comprehensive income$3,332$1,493$6,914
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
Consolidated statement of changes in stockholdersÕ equityJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co. 
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report74
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200220012000
Operating activities
Net income$1,663$1,694$5,727
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by 
operating activities:
Provision for credit losses4,3313,1821,380
Depreciation and amortization3,4262,8912,545
Deferred tax provision (benefit)1,636(638)(550)
Surety settlement and litigation reserve1,300ÑÑPrivate equity unrealized losses and write-offs
6411,8841,036
Net change in:Trading assets(58,183)26,217(34,761)
Securities borrowed2,437(4,209)3,157
Accrued interest and accounts receivable
6775,819(64)
Other assets5,735(26,756)(4,110)
Trading liabilities25,402(20,143)9,684
Accounts payable,accrued expenses and other liabilities
(12,964)7,4725,956
Other,net
(1,235)(520)(3,676)
Net cash used in operating activities
(25,134)(3,107)(13,676)
Investing activitiesNet change in:Deposits with banks
3,801(4,410)22,088
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements
(2,082)5,747(10,493)
Loans due to sales and securitizations97,00469,57533,062
Other loans,net
(98,695)(72,149)(47,672)
Other,net
(3,398)3,431(2,210)
Held-to-maturity securities:Proceeds 
85113415
Purchases(40)(2)(114)
Available-for-sale securities:Proceeds from maturities
5,0947,9809,393
Proceeds from sales219,385186,434104,322
Purchases(244,547)(182,920)(109,051)
Cash used in acquisitions
(72)(1,677)(2,195)
Proceeds from divestitures of nonstrategic businesses and assets
1211961,469
Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities
(23,344)12,318(986)
Financing activitiesNet change in:U.S.deposits9,98529,11910,596
Non-U.S.deposits
1,118(14,834)(18,295)
Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements
41,038(3,293)21,897
Commercial paper and other borrowed funds
(4,675)(15,346)8,925
Other,net
Ñ(91)(436)
Proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt and capital securities
11,9718,98614,861
Repayments of long-term debt
(12,185)(12,574)(14,442)
Proceeds from the net issuance of stock and stock-related awards
7251,4292,278
Redemption of preferred stockÑ(511)(100)
Redemption of preferred stock of subsidiary(550)ÑÑTreasury stock purchasedÑ(871)(2,950)
Cash dividends paid(2,784)(2,697)(2,282)
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities44,643(10,683)20,052
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and due from banks
453100(110)
Net (decrease)increase in cash and due from banks
(3,382)(1,372)5,280
Cash and due from banks at the beginning of the year22,60023,97218,692
Cash and due from banks at the end of the year$19,218$22,600$23,972
Cash interest paid$13,534$22,987$27,217
Taxes paid$1,253$479$3,396
The Notes to consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.
Consolidated statement of cash flowsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co. 
Basis of Presentation
ConsolidationJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co. (ÒJPMorgan ChaseÓ or the ÒFirmÓ) is a
financial holding company for a group of subsidiaries that pro-

vide a wide range of services to a global client base that
includes corporations, governments, institutions and individuals.

For a discussion of the FirmÕs business segment information, see

Note 33 on page 108.On December 31, 2000, J.P. Morgan & Co. Incorporated 
(ÒJ.P. MorganÓ) merged with and into The Chase Manhattan

Corporation (ÒChaseÓ). Upon consummation of the merger,

Chase changed its name to J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. The 

merger was accounted for as a pooling of interests. Accordingly,

the information included in the consolidated financial state-
ments and notes of JPMorgan Chase reflects the combined

results of Chase and J.P. Morgan as if the merger had been in
effect for all periods presented. 
The accounting and financial reporting policies of JPMorgan
Chase and its subsidiaries conform to U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles (ÒGAAPÓ) and prevailing industry prac-

tices. Additionally, where applicable, the policies conform to the

accounting and reporting guidelines prescribed by bank regula-

tory authorities.The consolidated financial statements include accounts ofJPMorgan Chase and its majority-owned subsidiaries after elimi-
nating intercompany balances and transactions.
Investments in companies in which the Firm has significant influ-ence over operating and financing decisions (generally defined
as owning a voting or economic interest of 20% to 50%) are

accounted for in accordance with the equity method of

accounting. These investments are generally included in Other

assets, and the FirmÕs share of income or loss is included in

Other revenue. For a discussion of private equity investments,

see Note 13on page 88.
Assets held in an agency or fiduciary capacity by the Firm are
not assets of JPMorgan Chase and are not included in the

Consolidated balance sheet.Certain amounts in prior periods have been reclassified to con-
form to the current presentation. Effective January 1, 2002, the

Firm implemented EITF Issue No. 01-14 which requires reim-

bursements received for out-of-pocket expenses incurred to be

characterized as revenue in the Consolidated statement of

income. The adoption resulted in reclassifications of previously

disclosed amounts.Note 1Use of estimates in the preparation of consolidated 
financial statementsThe preparation of consolidated financial statements requires
management to make estimates and assumptions that affect

reported revenues, expenses, assets, liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results could be different

from these estimates.
Foreign currency translation
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are 

translated into U.S. dollars using applicable rates of exchange.
JPMorgan Chase translates revenues and expenses using

exchange rates at the transaction date. Gains and losses from translating the financial statements of a
non-U.S. operation where the functional currency is not the U.S.

dollar are included in Accumulated other comprehensive income

(loss) within StockholdersÕ equity. For non-U.S. operations where

the functional currency is the U.S. dollar, including operations in

highly inflationary environments, transaction gains and losses

are reported in the Consolidated statement of income.
Statement of cash flowsFor JPMorgan ChaseÕs Consolidated statement of cash flows,

cash and cash equivalents are defined as those amounts included

in Cash and due from banks. 
Significant accounting policies
The following table identifies JPMorgan ChaseÕs significant

accounting policies and the Note and page where a detailed

description of each policy can be found:Trading assets and liabilities,including derivativesNote 3Page 76
Fee revenueNote 4Page 77
SecuritiesNote 7Page 79

Securities financing activitiesNote 8Page 80

LoansNote 9Page 80

Allowance for credit lossesNote 10Page 82

Special-purpose entitiesNote 11Page 83

Mortgage servicing rightsNote 12Page 87

Private equity investmentsNote 13Page 88

Goodwill and other intangiblesNote 14Page 89

Premises and equipmentNote 15Page 89

Income taxesNote 22Page 93

Postretirement employee benefit plansNote 23Page 94
Employee stock-based incentivesNote 24Page 96

Derivative instruments and hedging activitiesNote 28Page 101

Off-balance sheet lending-related financial instrumentsand guaranteesNote 29Page 102
Fair value of financial instrumentsNote 31Page 104
75J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report76
Business changes and developments Merger with J.P. Morgan on December 31, 2000
Under the terms of the merger agreement, 617 million shares of
JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock were issued in exchange for all

of the outstanding shares of J.P. MorganÕs common stock (based

on an exchange ratio of 3.7 shares of JPMorgan ChaseÕs com-

mon stock for each share of J.P. MorganÕs common stock). Each

series of preferred stock of J.P. Morgan was exchanged on a

one-for-one basis for a corresponding series of preferred stock

of JPMorgan Chase having substantially the same terms.Acquisition of the Providian Master Trust 
On February 5, 2002, JPMorgan Chase acquired the Providian

Master Trust from Providian National Bank. The acquisition con-

sisted of credit card receivables of approximately $7.9 billion and

related relationships. The acquired portfolio consisted of approxi-
mately 3.3 million credit card accounts.
Acquisition of the mortgage business of Advanta Corp.In the first quarter of 2001, Chase Manhattan Mortgage
Corporation, an indirect subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase, acquired

all of the mortgage business of Advanta Corp. The acquisition
included AdvantaÕs origination capability, loan servicing and sub-

servicing portfolios and related securitization residual interests.
Sale of Hong Kong retail banking business
During the fourth quarter of 2000, Chase completed the sale 
of its Hong Kong-based retail banking business, including Chase

Manhattan Card Company Limited, to Standard Chartered PLC

for $1.3 billion in cash. The sale resulted in a pre-tax gain of

$827 million ($537 million after-tax).
Transfer of Euroclear-related business
On December 31, 2000, J.P. Morgan and the Boards of Euroclear
Clearance System PLC and Euroclear Clearance System Soci”t”

Cooperative consummated their agreement and created a

European-based bank in Brussels, known as Euroclear Bank,

which assumed the operations of the Euroclear System from 

J.P. Morgan. The transfer resulted in a gain of $399 million

($267 million after-tax) in 2000, which reflected the minimum

proceeds to be received from the Euroclear Bank during the fol-

lowing two years. Under the agreement, the Firm could receive

additional proceeds of up to $100 million per year for each of

2001 and 2002 based on the financial performance of the
Euroclear Bank during those periods. The Firm received $16 mil-

lion of additional proceeds in 2001. There were no additional

proceeds in 2002.
Note 2Acquisition of FlemingsOn August 1, 2000, Chase acquired Robert Fleming Holdings
Limited (ÒFlemingsÓ). The consideration issued to Flemings 
shareholders consisted of £2.6 billion in cash and notes and 

65.3 million shares of Chase common stock. Chase also estab-

lished retention arrangements for key Flemings employees that

totaled approximately $220 million (after-tax) and were expensed

over the two years following the acquisition. The transaction was
accounted for under the purchase method.
Trading activitiesTrading assets include debt and equity securities held for tradingpurposes that JPMorgan Chase owns (ÒlongÓ positions). Trading

liabilities include debt and equity securities that the Firm has
sold to other parties but does not own (ÒshortÓ positions). The
Firm is obligated to purchase securities at a future date to cover

the short position. Also included in Trading liabilities are struc-

tured notes that the Firm sells as part of its trading activities.

Included in Trading assets and Trading liabilities are the reported

receivables (unrealized gains) and payables (unrealized losses)
related to derivatives. These amounts include the effect of mas-
ter netting agreements as permitted under FIN 39. Trading posi-

tions are carried at fair value on the Consolidated balance sheet. 
Trading revenue
The following table sets forth the components of total tradingrevenue:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200220012000
Equities(a)$331$1,541$1,762
Fixed income and other(b)2,2633,3774,536
Total $2,594$4,918$6,298
(a)Includes equity securities and equity derivatives.
(b)Includes bonds and commercial paper,various types of interest rate derivatives (including
credit derivatives),as well as foreign exchange and commodities.
Note 377J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Trading assets and liabilitiesThe following table presents the fair value of Trading assets and
Trading liabilities for the dates indicated:December 31,(in millions)
20022001Trading assetsDebt and equity instruments:U.S.government,federal agencies and
municipal securities$68,906$41,666Certificates of deposit,bankersÕ acceptances
and commercial paper4,5458,492Debt securities issued by non-U.S.governments
29,70922,465Corporate securities and other
62,03945,625Total trading assets Ð debt and equity instruments
$165,199$118,248Derivative receivables:
Interest rate contracts
$60,771$44,732Foreign exchange contracts
7,4879,815Debt,equity,commodity and other contracts
14,84416,610Total trading assets Ð derivative receivables
$83,102$71,157Trading liabilitiesDebt and equity instruments(a)$66,864$52,988Derivative payables:
Interest rate contracts
$46,639$33,066Foreign exchange contracts
8,0369,410Debt,equity,commodity and other contracts
11,55213,587Total trading liabilities Ð derivative payables
$66,227$56,063(a)Primarily represents securities sold,not yet purchased.
Average Trading assets and liabilities were as follows for the
periods indicated:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
20022001Trading assets Ð debt and equity instruments$149,173$145,364Trading assets Ð derivative receivables
73,64178,461Trading liabilities Ð debt and equity instruments(a)$64,725$53,976Trading liabilities Ð derivative payables
57,60769,676(a)Primarily represents securities sold,not yet purchased.
Other noninterest revenue
Investment banking feesInvestment banking fees include advisory, and equity and debt
underwriting fees. Advisory fees are recognized as revenue

when related services are performed. Underwriting fees are rec-

ognized as revenue when the Firm has rendered all services to

the issuer and is entitled to collect the fee from the issuer, as

long as there are no other contingencies associated with the fee

(e.g., not contingent on the customer obtaining financing).
Underwriting fees are presented net of syndicate expenses. In

addition, JPMorgan Chase recognizes credit arrangement and

syndication fees as revenue after satisfying certain retention,

timing and yield criteria.The following table presents the components of investment
banking fees:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200220012000
Advisory$756$1,248$1,739
Underwriting:Equity464525859
Debt1,5431,8391,764
Total $2,763$3,612$4,362
Fees and commissionsFees and commissions primarily include fees from investment
management, custody and processing services, deposit accounts,

brokerage services, mortgage servicing (net of amortization,

write-downs and derivatives hedging), loan commitments,
standby letters of credit and financial guarantees, compensating

balances, insurance products and other financial service-related

products. These fees are recognized over the period that the

related service is provided. Also included are credit card rev-
enues, which primarily include interchange income (transaction-

processing fees), late fees, cash advance, annual and overlimit

fees, and servicing fees earned in connection with securitization

activities. Credit card revenues are recognized as billed, except

for annual fees, which are recognized over a 12-month period.
Details of Fees and commissions were as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200220012000
Investment management,custody and
processing services$3,759$3,951$3,775
Credit card revenue
2,8692,1081,771
Brokerage and investment services
1,2311,2441,228
Mortgage servicing fees,net of amortization,
write-downs and derivatives hedging
298(230)441
Other lending-related service fees
546495590
Deposit service fees1,1281,023906
Other fees925890755
Total fees and commissions
$10,756$9,481$9,466
Note 4Notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report78
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report78
Interest income and interest expense 
Details of interest income and expense were as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200220012000
Interest income
Loans$12,057$15,544$17,243
Securities3,3673,6474,422
Trading assets6,7987,3907,160
Federal funds sold and securities 
purchased under resale agreements2,0613,8054,751
Securities borrowed6981,3432,294
Deposits with banks303452773
Total interest income$25,284$32,181$36,643
Interest expense
Deposits$5,253$7,998$10,835
Short-term and other liabilities7,03811,09813,105
Long-term debt1,4672,2833,191
Total interest expense$13,758$21,379$27,131
Net interest income$11,526$10,802$9,512
Provision for credit losses (a)4,3313,1821,380
Net interest income afterprovision for credit losses$7,195$7,620$8,132
(a)  Includes the provision for lending-related commitments of $292 million,$(3) million and 
$3 million for the years ended December 31,2002,2001 and 2000,respectively.
Note 5Noninterest expense
Merger and restructuring costs
The following table shows the components of Merger and restruc-
turing costs associated with various programs announced prior to

January 1, 2002:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200220012000
Merger and restructuring costs
Merger,right-sizing,and other restructuring costs:
Severance and stay bonuses
$284$1,665$688
Facilities and equipment write-offs28873412
Technology and consulting44730652
Other43278171
Total merger,right-sizing,and 
other restructuring costs1,0622,3221,323
Relocation costs:Severance and stay bonuses
73484
Facilities and equipment write-offs7142
Technology and consulting41217
Dual salary,occupancy and equipment
328746
Other324039
Total relocation costs148201108
Total merger and restructuring costs$1,210$2,523(a)$1,431(b)(a)Includes $300 million right-sizing liability recorded in the 2001 third quarter.
(b)Includes $1.25 billion merger liability recorded in the 2000 fourth quarter.
Note 6Other revenue
Details of Other revenue were as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200220012000
Other revenue
Gains on sales of nonstrategic assets
$Ñ$Ñ$1,307Residential mortgage origination/sales activities671576206
Loss on economic hedge of the Flemings purchase price
ÑÑ(176)All other revenue487322967
Total other revenue$1,158$898$2,304
The Firm recorded liabilities of $1.25 billion in the fourth quarter
of 2000 and $300 million in the third quarter of 2001 in connec-

tion with, respectively, the merger of J.P. Morgan and Chase and

with the right-sizing of employee levels beyond that planned at
the time of the merger. In addition to these charges, the Firm

incurred additional expenses in 2000, 2001, and 2002 relating 

to the merger, right-sizing, relocation and other restructuring 

initiatives. These additional costs were expensed as incurred. With

the exception of facility and equipment write-offs, all of the costs

in the table above required the expenditure of cash. 
The table below shows the utilization of the $1.25 billion merger-
related charge and the $300 million right-sizing charge. AtDecember 31, 2002, these liabilities had been fully utilized. (in millions)MergerRight-sizing
Liability balance at January 1,2000$Ñ$Ñ
Merger charge1,250Ñ

Liability utilized during year 2000(333)Ñ
Liability balance at December 31,2000917Ñ
Right-sizing chargeÑ300

Liability utilized during year 2001(763)(259)
Liability balance at December 31,200115441
Liability utilized during year 2002(154)(41)
Liability balance at December 31,2002$Ñ$Ñ
79J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Other expenseDetails of Other expense were as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200220012000
Other expenseProfessional services$1,303$1,139$1,203
Outside services994888840
Marketing
689601595
Travel and entertainment411453490
All other1,3911,4401,599
Total other expense$4,788$4,521$4,727
The amortized cost and estimated fair value of AFS and HTM securities were as follows for the dates indicated:
20022001GrossGrossGrossGross
AmortizedunrealizedunrealizedFairAmortizedunrealizedunrealizedFair
December 31,(in millions) costgainslossesvaluecostgainslossesvalue
Available-for-sale securities
U.S.government and federal agency/corporation obligations:
Mortgage-backed securities
$40,148$449$141$40,456
$30,192$115$417$29,890
Collateralized mortgage obligations
3,27163213,313
2,29591892,297
U.S.Treasuries22,8705312423,377
9,987731579,903
Obligations of state and political subdivisions1,744145141,875
2,42986152,500
Debt securities issued by non-U.S.governments
11,873581911,912
11,636652411,677
Corporate debt securities
870208882
108351142
Equity securities1,19816181,196
1,102491,097
Other,primarily asset-backed securities
(a)978113701,021
1,7853101,778
Total available-for-sale securities
$82,952$1,395$315$84,032
$59,534$472$722$59,284
Held-to-maturity securitiesTotal held-to-maturity securities(b)$431$24$Ñ$455
$476$14$Ñ$490
(a)Includes CMOs of private issuers,which generally have underlying collateral consisting of obligations of U.S.government and 
federal agencies and corporations.
(b)Consists primarily of mortgage-backed securities.
is used to determine realized gains and losses on AFS securities,
which are included in Securities gains (losses) on the Consolidated

statement of income. Securities that the Firm has the positive
intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as HTM and are

carried at amortized cost on the Consolidated balance sheet. The following table presents realized gains and losses from AFS
securities:SecuritiesSecurities are classified as Available-for-sale (ÒAFSÓ), Held-

to-maturity (ÒHTMÓ) or Trading. Trading securities are discussed

within Note 3 on pages 76Ð77. Securities are classified as AFS

when, in managementÕs judgment, they may be sold in response

to or in anticipation of changes in market conditions. AFS securi-
ties are carried at fair value on the Consolidated balance sheet.

Unrealized gains and losses after SFAS133 valuation adjustments

are reported as net increases or decreases to Accumulated other

comprehensive income (loss). The specific identification method
Note 7Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200220012000
(a)Realized gains$1,904$1,438$727
Realized losses(341)(572)(498)
Net realized gains (losses)$1,563$866$229
(a)Includes the impact of related derivatives.
In calculating the effective yield for mortgage-backed securities
(ÒMBSÓ) and collateralized mortgage obligations (ÒCMOÓ),
JPMorgan Chase actively monitors the likelihood of principal 
prepayment through its portfolio management function.

Management regularly performs simulation testing to determine

the impact that market conditions would have on its MBS and
CMO portfolios. MBSs and CMOs that management believes 
have high prepayment risk are included in the AFS portfolio and

are reported at fair value. 
Notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report80
The following table presents the amortized cost, estimated fair value and average yield at December 31, 2002, of JPMorgan Chase
Õs 
AFSand HTM securities by contractual maturity:Available-for-sale securitiesHeld-to-maturity securities
Maturity schedule of securitiesAmortizedFairAverageAmortizedFairAverage
December 31,2002 (in millions)costvalueyield
(a)costvalueyield
(a)Due in one year or less$10,075$10,0413.14%$35$352.09%
Due after one year through five years17,92218,3313.76ÑÑÑ
Due after five years through 10 years9,4459,7284.48ÑÑÑ
Due after 10 years(b)45,51045,9325.173964206.80
Total securities$82,952$84,0324.54%$431$4556.42%
(a)The average yield is based on amortized cost balances at year-end.Yields are derived by dividing interest income (including 
the effect of related derivatives on AFS securities and the amortization of 
premiums and accretion of discounts) by total amortized cost.Taxable-equivalent yields are used where applicable.
(b)Includes securities with no stated maturity.Substantially all of JPMorgan ChaseÕs MBSs and CMOs are due in 10 years or more 
based on contractual maturity.The estimated duration,which reflects anticipat-
ed future prepayments based on a consensus of dealers in the market,is approximately three years for MBSs and less than one yea
r for CMOs.
Securities financing activitiesJPMorgan Chase enters into reverse repurchase agreements,
repurchase agreements, securities borrowed transactions and
securities loaned transactions primarily to finance the FirmÕs

inventory positions, acquire securities to cover short positions

and settle other securities obligations and to accommodate 
customersÕ needs.Securities purchased under resale agreements (Òresale agree-
mentsÓ) and securities sold under repurchase agreements

(Òrepurchase agreementsÓ) are generally treated as collateralized

financing transactions and are carried on the Consolidated bal-

ance sheet at the amounts the securities will be subsequently
sold or repurchased, plus accrued interest. Where appropriate,

resale and repurchase agreements with the same counterparty
are reported on a net basis in accordance with FIN 41. JPMorgan

Chase takes possession of securities purchased under resale

agreements. On a daily basis, JPMorgan Chase monitors the

market value of the underlying collateral received from its coun-

terparties, which consists primarily of U.S. and foreign govern-

ment and agency securities, and requests additional collateral

from its counterparties when necessary.
Similar transactions that do not meet the SFAS 140 definition of 
a Òrepurchase agreementÓ are accounted for as ÒbuysÓ and

ÒsellsÓ rather than financing transactions. These transactions are

accounted for as a purchase (sale) of the underlying securities

with a forward obligation to sell (purchase) the securities. The for-

ward purchase (sale) obligation, a derivative, is recorded on the

Consolidated balance sheet at its fair value with changes in the
fair value recorded in trading revenue. Notional amounts of trans-

actions accounted for as purchases under SFAS 140 were $8 bil-

lion and $6 billion at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

Notional amounts of transactions accounted for as sales under
SFAS 140 were $13 billion and $27 billion at December 31, 2002

and 2001, respectively. Based on the short-term duration of these

contracts, the unrealized gain or loss is insignificant. 
Note 8LoansLoans are generally reported at the principal amount outstand-

ing, net of the allowance for loan losses, unearned income and

any net deferred loan fees. Loans held for sale are carried at the

lower of aggregate cost or fair value. Loans are classified as

ÒtradingÓ for secondary market trading activities where posi-

tions are bought and sold to make profits from short-term
Note 9Securities borrowed and securities lent are recorded at the

amount of cash collateral advanced or received. Securities bor-

rowed consist primarily of government and equity securities.
JPMorgan Chase monitors the market value of the securities bor-
rowed and lent on a daily basis and calls for additional collateral
when appropriate. Fees received or paid are recorded in Interest

income or Interest expense.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
20022001Securities purchased under resale agreements$57,645$61,519Securities borrowed34,14336,580Securities sold under repurchase agreements$161,394$117,684Securities loaned1,6611,413JPMorgan Chase pledges certain financial instruments it owns tocollateralize repurchase agreements and other securities financ-

ings.  Pledged securities that can be sold or repledged by the

secured party are identified as financial instruments owned

(pledged to various parties) on the Consolidated balance sheet. At December 31, 2002, the Firm had received securities as col-
lateral that can be repledged, delivered or otherwise used with a

fair value of approximately $214 billion. This collateral was gen-

erally obtained under reverse repurchase or securities borrowing

agreements. Of these securities, approximately $199 billion were

repledged, delivered or otherwise used, generally as collateral
under repurchase agreements, securities lending agreements, or

to cover short sales.81J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
20022001December 31,(in millions)
U.S.Non-U.S.Total
U.S.Non-U.S.Total
Commercial loans:
Commercial and industrial$49,205$31,446$80,651
$56,680$33,530$90,210
Commercial real estate:Commercial mortgage3,17623,178
3,533163,549
Construction516379895
615151766
Financial institutions3,7702,4386,208
5,6083,5709,178
Foreign governments Ñ616
616Ñ1,1611,161
Total commercial loans56,66734,88191,548
66,43638,428104,864
Consumer loans:1-4 family residential mortgages:
First liens49,3571249,369
47,78650648,292
Home equity loans14,643Ñ14,643
11,644Ñ11,644
Credit card19,677Ñ19,677
19,387719,394
Auto financings
33,615Ñ33,615
25,6673825,705
Other consumer7,3951177,512
7,3661797,545
Total consumer loans124,687129124,816
111,850730112,580
Total loans(a)(b)$181,354$35,010$216,364
$178,286$39,158$217,444
(a)Loans are presented net of unearned income of $1.89 billion and $1.83 billion at December 31,2002 and 2001,respectively.
(b)Includes loans held for sale (principally mortgage-related loans) of $25.0 billion and $16.6 billion at December 31,2002 and
 2001,respectively.
Impaired loans
JPMorgan Chase accounts for and discloses nonaccrual commer-cial loans as impaired loans and recognizes their interest income

as discussed previously for nonaccrual loans. The Firm excludes

from impaired loans its small-balance, homogeneous consumer

loans, loans carried at fair value or the lower of cost or fair
value, debt securities and leases. The table below sets forth information about JPMorgan ChaseÕs
impaired loans. The Firm uses discounted cash flow as its primary

method for valuing impaired loans:
December 31,(in millions)
20022001Impaired loans with an allowance
$3,250$1,523Impaired loans without an allowance
(a)412457Total impaired loans$3,662$1,980Allowance for impaired loans under SFAS 114
(b)$1,106$448Average balance of impaired loans during the year
2,8051,840Interest income recognized on impaired loans 
during the year
$14
$18
(a)When the discounted cash flows,collateral value or market price equals or exceeds the carry-
ing value of the loan,then the loan does not require an allowance under SFAS 114.
(b)The allowance for impaired loans under SFAS 114 is included in JPMorgan ChaseÕs allowance
for loan losses.
The following table reflects information about the FirmÕs loans
held for sale, principally mortgage-related:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200220012000
Net gains on sales of loans held for sale
$754$581$248
Lower of cost or market adjustments
(36)(177)(4)
Consumer loans are generally charged to the allowance for loan
losses upon reaching specified stages of delinquency, in accor-

dance with the Federal Financial Institutions Examination CouncilÕs

(ÒFFIECÓ) policy. For example, credit card loans are charged off at

the earlier of 180 days past due or within 60 days from receiving

notification of the filing of bankruptcy. Residential mortgage

products are generally charged off to net realizable value at 180

days past due. Other consumer products are generally charged 

off (to net realizable value if collateralized) at 120 days past due.

Accrued interest on residential mortgage products, auto financ-

ings and certain other consumer loans are accounted for in accor-

dance with the nonaccrual loan policy discussed above. Accrued
interest on all other loans is generally reversed against interest

income when the consumer loan is charged off.
A collateralized loan is considered an in-substance foreclosure
and is reclassified to assets acquired as loan satisfactions, within

Other assets, only when JPMorgan Chase has taken physical
possession of the collateral, regardless of whether formal fore-

closure proceedings have taken place.
The composition of the loan portfolio at each of the dates indi-cated was as follows:movements in price. Loans held for trading purposes are included
in Trading assets and are carried at fair value, with the gains and

losses included in Trading revenue. Interest income is recognized

using the interest method or on a basis approximating a level

rate of return over the term of the loan.
Nonaccrual loans are those on which the accrual of interest is
discontinued. Loans (other than certain consumer loans 
discussed below) are placed on nonaccrual status immediately 

if, in the opinion of management, full payment of principal or
interest is in doubt, or when principal or interest is 90 days or

more past due and collateral, if any, is insufficient to cover prin-

cipal and interest. Interest accrued but not collected at the date

a loan is placed on nonaccrual status is reversed against Interest

income. In addition, the amortization of net deferred loan fees

is suspended. Interest income on nonaccrual loans is recognized

only to the extent it is received in cash. However, where there is

doubt regarding the ultimate collectibility of loan principal, all

cash thereafter received is applied to reduce the carrying value

of the loan. Loans are restored to accrual status only when

interest and principal payments are brought current and future

payments are reasonably assured.
Notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report82
To provide for the risk of losses inherent in the credit extension
process, management also computes specific and expected loss

components, as well as a residual component, for lending-related

commitments using a methodology similar to that used for the
loan portfolio.JPMorgan Chase maintains an allowance for credit losses 
as follows:Reported in:
Allowance for credit losses on:Balance sheetIncome statement
LoansAllowance for loan 
lossesProvision for credit losses
Lending-related commitmentsOther liabilitiesProvision for credit lossesThe table below summarizes the changes in the Allowance for loan losses:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200220012000
Allowance at January 1
$4,524$3,665$3,738
Provision for loan losses 
4,0393,1851,377
Charge-offs(4,060)(2,582)(1,634)
Recoveries384247234
Net charge-offs(3,676)(2,335)(1,400)
Charge to conform to FFIEC revised policyÑÑ(80)Allowance related to purchased portfolios
460Ñ29
Other391Allowance at December 31
$5,350$4,524$3,665
The table below summarizes the changes in the Allowance for lending-related commitments:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200220012000
Allowance at January 1
$282$283$295
Provision for lending-related commitments 292(3)3
Charge-offs(212)Ñ(15)RecoveriesÑ3ÑNet charge-offs(212)3(15)Other1(1)Ñ
Allowance at December 31
$363$282$283
Allowance for credit losses
JPMorgan ChaseÕs Allowance for loan losses is intended to cover
probable credit losses for which either the asset is not specifically

identified or the size of the loss has not been fully determined.
Within the allowance, there are specific and expected loss com-
ponents and a residual component. 
The specific loss component covers those commercial loans
deemed by the Firm to be criticized. The Firm internally catego-

rizes its criticized commercial loans into three groups: doubtful,

substandard and special mention. 
Criticized nonperforming commercial loans (excluding leases) are
considered to be impaired loans. The allowance for impaired

loans is computed using the methodology under SFAS 114. An
allowanceis 
established when the discounted cash flows (or col-lateral value or observable market price) of an impaired loan are

lower than the carrying value of that loan. To compute the spe-

cific loss component of the allowance, larger impaired loans are

evaluated individually, and smaller impaired loans are evaluated

as a pool using historical loss experience for the respective class

of assets. Criticized but performing loans also are evaluated as a

pool, using historical loss rates. The expected loss component covers performing commercial
loans (except criticized loans) and consumer loans.Expected losses are the product of default probability and loss
severity. 
These factors are differentiated 
by risk rating and maturi-ty for commercial loans.
The expected loss estimates for each consumer loan portfolio are
based primarily on the FirmÕs historical loss experience for the

applicable product portfolio. 
Finally, a residual component is maintained to cover uncertainties
that could affect managementÕs estimate of probable losses. The

residual component of the allowance reflects the margin of
imprecision in the underlying assumptions used for estimating

specific losses and expected losses. It is anticipated that the
residual component of the allowance will range between 10%and 20% of the total Allowance for credit losses. 
JPMorgan ChaseÕs Risk Management Committee reviews, at least
quarterly, the Allowance for credit losses relative to the risk pro-

file of the FirmÕs credit portfolio and current economic condi-

tions. The allowance is adjusted based on that review if, in man-

agementÕs judgment, changes are warranted. As of December 31,

2002, JPMorgan Chase deemed the allowance to be adequate
(i.e., sufficient to absorb losses that are inherent in the portfolio

but are not yet identifiable).
Note 1083J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Special-purpose entitiesThe terms special-purpose entity (ÒSPEÓ) and special-purposevehicle (ÒSPVÓ) are used interchangeably in practice. SPEs are an

important part of the financial markets, providing market liquidi-

ty by facilitating investorsÕ access to specific portfolios of assets
and risks. They are, for example, critical to the functioning of

the mortgage- and asset-backed securities and commercial

paper markets. SPEs may be organized as trusts, partnerships or
corporations and are typically set up for a single, discrete pur-

pose. SPEs are not operating entities and usually have no

employees and a limited life. The basic SPE structure involves a

company selling assets to the SPE. The SPE funds the purchase

of those assets by issuing securities to investors. The legal docu-
ments that govern the SPE transaction describe how the cash

earned on the assets must be allocated to its investors and

other parties that have rights to those cash flows. SPEs can be
structured to be bankruptcy remote, thereby insulating investors

from the impact of the creditors of other entities, including the

seller of the assets.Where JPMorgan Chase is a transferor of financial assets to an
SPE, the assets sold are derecognized and the SPE is not consoli-

dated on the FirmÕs balance sheet when the assets are: (1) legal-

ly isolated from the FirmÕs creditors, (2) the accounting criteria

for a sale are met, and (3) the SPE is a qualifying special-purpose

entity (ÒQSPEÓ) under SFAS 140. When an SPE does not meet

the formal definition of a QSPE, the decision whether or not to
consolidate depends on the applicable accounting principles for
non-QSPEs, including a determination regarding the nature and

amount of investment made by third parties in the SPE.

Consideration is given to, among other factors, whether a third

party has made a substantive equity investment in the SPE;
which party has voting rights, if any; who makes decisions
about the assets in the SPE; and who is at risk for loss. The SPE
is consolidated if JPMorgan Chase retains or acquires control

over the risks and rewards of the assets in the SPE. All transac-

tions and retained interests between the Firm and SPEs are

reflected on JPMorgan ChaseÕs Consolidated balance sheet or in
the Notes to the financial statements. The Firm has no commitments to issue its own stock to supportan SPE transaction, and its policies require that transactions with

SPEs be conducted at armsÕ length and reflect market pricing.

Consistent with this policy, no JPMorgan Chase employee is per-

mitted to invest in SPEs with which the Firm is involved where

such investment would violate the FirmÕs Worldwide Rules of

Conduct. These rules prohibit employees from self-dealing and

from acting on behalf of the Firm in transactions with which

they or their family have any significant financial interest.
JPMorgan Chase is involved with SPEs in three broad categories
of transactions: loan securitizations, multi-seller conduits and
client intermediation. Note 11Loan securitizationsJPMorgan Chase securitizes, sells and services residential mort-
gage, credit card, automobile and commercial loans. Assets sold

to SPEs as part of the securitization process are not reflected in

JPMorgan ChaseÕs Consolidated balance sheet (except for

retained interests as described below) but are included on the
balance sheet of the SPE purchasing the assets. Assets held by

securitization-related SPEs as of December 31, 2002 and 2001,

were as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in billions)
20022001Credit card receivables
$40.2
$25.6Residential mortgage receivables
20.624.3Commercial loans25.219.8Auto loans4.53.4Other receivables
0.11.4Interests in securitized and sold loans are generally retained by
the Firm in the form of senior or subordinated interest-only

strips, subordinated tranches, escrow accounts and servicing

rights, and they are primarily recorded in Other assets. In addi-

tion, credit card securitization trusts require the Firm to maintain

a minimum undivided interest in the trusts, which represents the

FirmÕs interests in the receivables transferred to the trust that

have not been securitized. These interests are not represented

by security certificates. The FirmÕs undivided interests are carried

at historical cost and are classified in Loans.
JPMorgan Chase retains servicing responsibilities for all residen-
tial mortgage, credit card and automobile loan securitizations

and for certain commercial loan securitizations it establishes.

The Firm receives annual servicing fees based on the securitized

loan balance plus certain ancillary fees. It also retains the right

to service the residential mortgage loans it sells in connection

with mortgage-backed securities transactions with the
Government National Mortgage Association (ÒGNMAÓ), Federal

National Mortgage Association (ÒFNMAÓ) and Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Corporation (ÒFreddie MacÓ). For a discussion of

mortgage servicing rights, see Note 12. Gains or losses recorded on securitizations and sales depend, in
part, on the carrying amount of the assets sold and are allocat-

ed between the assets sold and the retained interests based on

their relative fair values at the date of sale. Since quoted market

prices are generally not available, the Firm usually estimates fair

value of these retained interests by determining the present

value of future expected cash flows using modeling techniques.

Such models incorporate managementÕs best estimates of key

variables, such as expected credit losses, prepayment speeds and

discount rates appropriate for the risks involved. Gains on secu-

ritizations and sales are reported in Other revenue. Retained

interests that are subject to prepayment risk such that JPMorgan

Chase may not recover substantially all of its investment are

recorded at fair value with subsequent adjustments reflected in
Notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report84
Other comprehensive income or in earnings, if the fair value of
the retained interest has declined below its carrying amount and

such decline has been determined to be other-than-temporary.
During 2002, the Firm securitized approximately $7.2 billion of
residential mortgage loans, $9.4 billion of credit card loans, $3.4
billion of automobile loans and $4.3 billion of commercial loans,

resulting in pre-tax gains on securitizations of $214 million, $45
million, $6 million and $53 million, respectively. During 2001, the
Firm securitized approximately $7.9 billion of residential mortgage
loans, $6 billion of credit card loans, $2.5 billion of automobile

loans and $5.5 billion of commercial loans, resulting in pre-tax

gains on securitizations of $242 million, $42 million, $17 million
and $40 million, respectively. In addition, the Firm sold residential

mortgage loans totaling $62.2 billion and $45.8 billion during
2002 and 2001, respectively, primarily as GNMA, FNMA and

Freddie Mac mortgage-backed securities; these sales resulted in

gains of $388 million in 2002 and $262 million in 2001.The following table summarizes certain cash flows received from securitization trusts for sales that were completed during 2002
 and 2001and the key economic assumptions used in measuring the retained interests as of the dates of such sales:
20022001($ in millions)MortgageCredit cardAutoCommercial
MortgageCredit cardAutoCommercial
Cash flow information:Proceeds from securitizations$7,403$9,350$3,386$4,284
$7,932$6,038$2,496$5,543
Servicing fees collected157320Ñ
12365Ñ
Other cash flows received11211272
9910132
Proceeds from collections reinvested in previous revolving securitizationsÑ44,645Ñ334
Ñ31,191Ñ2,164
Key assumptions(rates per annum):
Prepayment rate
(a)10.1-25.0% CPR14.6-14.9%1.51-1.52%NA
(b)8.5-34.0% CPR14.0-14.4%1.47%NA
(b)WAC/WAM
WAC/WAM
Weighted-average life
3.0-7.7 years7 months
1.8 years
7.3 years
2.6-8.5 years7 months1.8 years1.1 years
Expected credit losses0-1.0%(c)5.4-5.9%0.5%NA
(d)0.1-0.8%5.5-6.0%0.4-0.5%NA
(d)Discount rate
15.0-30.0%5.1-5.9%5.7-5.9%8.8%
15.0-19.0%3.5-6.5%5.3-7.0%5.0%
(a)CPR:Constant prepayment rate;WAC/WAM:Weighted-average coupon/weighted-average maturity.
(b)Not applicable since these retained interests are not subject to prepayment risk.

(c)Expected credit losses for prime mortgage securitizations are minimal and are incorporated into other assumptions.

(d)Not applicable due to collateral coverage on loans in commercial securitizations.
On February 5, 2002, JPMorgan Chase acquired the Providian
Master Trust, consisting of credit card receivables of approximately

$7.9 billion and related relationships. Accounting principles

required that all of the purchased receivables, including those
that had been securitized, be initially reflected on the 
FirmÕs
Consolidated balance sheet, together with a related liabilityto

reflect the securities issued by the trust to third parties. This lia-
bilitytotaled 
$6.3 billion on February 5, 2002, and was recorded
in Other borrowed funds. As credit card receivables revolve, and

new receivables are sold to investors through the securitization

trust, these newly sold receivables and related liability are

removed from the balance sheet as permitted by securitization
accounting principles. During the period from the acquisition date

to December 31, 2002, $5.6 billion of the liability had been
removed from the Consolidated balance sheet, either through the
revolving sales of new receivables to investors or the maturing of
investor securities. At December 31, 2002, $0.7 billion of the
originally purchased and securitized receivables, and the related

liability of $0.7 billion, remained on the balance sheet. The inter-

est rate of the remaining liability is a combination of fixed and

variable rates, which reflects the coupon rates of the securities

issued to third parties. These rates 
ranged from 1.53% to 7.98%
at December 31, 2002. The liabilityis 
expected to be substantiallyremoved from the balance sheet by June 2003. In addition, at
December 31, 2002, the Firm had 
on its balance sheet $2.7 billionrelating to its undivided interest in the Providian Master Trust and
$117 million relatedto its subor
dinated interest in accrued inter-
est and fees on securitized receivables.
At December 31, 2002 and 2001, JPMorgan Chase had $4.6billion and $3.9 billion, respectively, related to its undivided

interest in its Chase Credit Card Master Trust, and $861 million

and $878 million, respectively, in its subordinated interest in

accrued interest and fees on the securitized receivables. The

Firm also maintains escrow accounts up to predetermined limits

for some of its residential mortgage, credit card and automobile

securitizations, in the unlikely event of deficiencies in cash flows
owed to investors. The amounts available in such escrow

accounts are recorded in Other assets and, as of December 31,

2002, amounted to $510 million and $94 million for credit card

and automobile securitizations, respectively; as of December 31,

2001, these amounts were $1 million, $341 million and $79

million for residential mortgage, credit card and automobile

securitizations, respectively. Additionally, the Firm had other

retained securitization interests as of December 31, 2002 and
2001, of $684 million and $1 billion from residential mortgages,

$92 million and $38 million from credit cards, $151 million and

$141 million from auto loans, and $94 million and $66 million

from commercial loans. These retained interests are primarily

subordinated or residual interests.
85J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
The table below outlines the key economic assumptions and the sensitivity of fair values at December 31, 2002 of the remaining 
retainedinterests to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in those assumptions:
($ in millions)Mortgage(a)Credit cardAutoCommercial
Carrying value / fair value of 
retained interests(b)$684$92$151$94
Weighted-average life1.7-2.1 years5-24 months1.7 years1-7.3 years
Prepayment rate28.7-43.7% CPR14.9%1.64% WAC/WAMNA
(c)Impact of 10% adverse change$(7)$(5)$(10)Ñ
Impact of 20% adverse change(26)(5)(20)Ñ
Loss assumption0-2.9%
(d)5.9%0.55%NA
(e)Impact of 10% adverse change$(31)$(6)$(4)Ñ
Impact of 20% adverse change(59)(11)(8)Ñ
Discount rate13.0-30.0%
(f)5.2-7.3%4.7%3.5-11.7%
Impact of 10% adverse change$(18)$(1)$(1)$(2)
Impact of 20% adverse change(36)(2)(2)(5)
(a)Includes approximately $345 million of retained interests resulting from the acquisition of AdvantaÕs mortgage operations.
(b)Unrealized gains (losses) recorded in StockholdersÕ equity that relate to these retained interests totaled $156 million,$(1)
 million and $21 million for residential mortgage,credit card and automobile,respectively.
(c)Not applicable since predominantly all of these retained interests are not subject to prepayment risk.

(d)Expected credit losses for prime mortgage securitizations are minimal and are incorporated into other assumptions.

(e)Not applicable as modeling assumptions for predominantly all of the commercial retained interests consider overcollateraliza
tion coverage and cash collateralized credit default swaps.
(f)During 2002,the Firm sold certain residual interests of approximately $244 million from sub-prime mortgage securitizations v
ia Net Interest Margin (ÒNIMÓ) securitizations.The Firm retained residual 
interests in the NIM securitizations of approximately $58 million that are valued using a 30% discount rate.
The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical.
Changes in fair value based on a 10% variation in assumptions
generally cannot be extrapolated easily, because the relationship

of the change in the assumptions to the change in fair value
may not be linear. Also, in this table, the effect that a change in

a particular assumption may have on the fair value is calculated
without changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in

one factor may result in changes in another assumption, which

might counteract or magnify the sensitivities. Expected static pool net credit losses include actual incurred
losses plus projected net credit losses, divided by the original

balance of the outstandings comprising the securitization pool.
The table below displays the expected static pool net credit loss-

es for 2002, 2001 and 2000 based on securitizations occurring
in that year:Loans securitized in:(a)(b)200220012000
MortgageAuto
MortgageAutoMortgageAuto
December 31,2002
0.1-3.7%0.9%
0.1-3.8%0.9%0.1-4.1%
(c)1.1%December 31,2001
NANA
0.1-2.30.80.1-2.7
(c)0.8December 31,2000
NANA
NANA0.1-2.30.7
(a)No expected static pool net credit losses on commercial securitizations due to collateral cover-
age on loans in commercial securitizations.
(b)Static pool losses not applicable to credit card securitizations due to their revolving structure.

(c)Excludes expected static pool losses associated with the acquisition of AdvantaÕs mortgage
operations.Expected static pool losses,as of December 31,2002 and 2001,would be 

11.1% and 8.2%,respectively for the three securitization transactions completed by Advanta

Corp.during 2000.
NA-Not applicable.
The table below presents information about delinquencies, net
credit losses and components of reported and securitized financial

assets at December 31, 2002:Loans 90 days orNet
Type of loanTotal loansmore past duecharge-offs
(in millions)200220012002200120022001Mortgage(a)(b)$81,570$82,546$956$933$272$252Credit card50,39940,8111,0969282,8282,038Auto37,98028,950130129184149Other(c)7,5248,09698115189176Consumer loans177,473160,4032,2802,1053,4732,615Commercial loans92,866107,4683,7492,0461,881982Total loans reported and securitized
(d)270,339267,8716,0294,1515,3543,597Less:Loans
securitized(a)(b)(53,975)(50,427)(1,306)(1,134)(1,678)(1,262)Reported$216,364$217,444$4,723$3,017$3,676$2,335(a)Includes $12.2 billion of outstanding principal balances on securitized sub-prime 1-4 family 
residential mortgage loans as of December 31,2002,of which $3.5 billion relates to AdvantaÕs

mortgage operations acquired in 2001.
(b)Delinquency information for securitized mortgage loans has been adjusted to reflect the inclu-
sion of loans in bankruptcy and foreclosure.
(c)Includes non-U.S.consumer loans.

(d)Represents both loans on the Consolidated balance sheet and loans that have been securitized,
but excludes loans for which the FirmÕs only continuing involvement is servicing of the assets.
Total assets held in securitization-related SPEs, as of December 31,
2002, were $90.6 billion (see table on page 83). The $54.0 billion

of loans securitized at December 31, 2002 shown in the table
above excludes: $26.9 billion of securitized loans in which the
FirmÕs only continuing involvement is the servicing of the assets;

$8.2 billion of sellerÕs interests in credit card master trusts and

subordinated accrued interest and fees; $0.7 billion of Providian

Master Trust receivables (which are reflected as receivables on the

FirmÕs Consolidated balance sheet until paid off or revolve into

new receivables sold to investors); and $0.8 billion of escrow

accounts and other assets.Notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report86
statements. The risks inherent in derivative instruments or liquid-
ity commitments are managed similar to other credit, market

and liquidity risks to which the Firm is exposed.In its capacity as a financial intermediary, the Firm has created
structured commercial loan vehicles managed by third parties in

which loans are purchased from third parties or through the FirmÕs

syndication and trading functions and funded by issuing commer-
cial paper. Investors provide collateral and have a first risk of loss

up to the amount of collateral pledged. The Firm retains a second

risk of loss position for these vehicles. The documentation
includes provisions intended, subject to certain conditions, to

enable JPMorgan Chase to terminate the transactions related to 

a particular loan vehicle if the value of the relevant portfolio

declines below a specified level. The amount of the commercial

paper issued by these vehicles, as of December 31, 2002, totaled
$7.2 billion. JPMorgan Chase Bank has a commitment to provide

liquidity to these SPEs in an amount up to $12.0 billion. JPMorgan Chase also structures SPEs to modify the cash flows of
third-party assets to create investments with specific risk profiles,

or to assist clients in the efficient management of other risks. For

example, the Firm structures credit-linked notes in which the SPE

purchases highly-rated assets (such as asset-backed securities) and

enters into a credit derivative contract with the Firm to obtain

exposure to a referenced credit not held by the SPE. Credit-linked

notes are issued by the SPE to transfer the risk of the referenced

credit to the investors in the SPE. As of December 31, 2002, the

aggregate assets held by the credit-linked note vehicles were $7.9

billion. Additionally, JPMorgan Chase structures, on behalf of

clients, vehicles in which the Firm transfers the risks and returns of

the assets held by the SPE, typically debt and equity instruments,
to clients through derivative contracts. The FirmÕs net exposure

arising from these intermediation transactions is not significant.

The aggregate assets held by these client intermediation vehicles

were $7.4 billion at December 31, 2002. The FirmÕs current expo-

sure to all of these vehicles 
is reflected in 
its Consolidated finan-cial statements as the fair value of the derivative contracts are

recorded in Trading assets or Trading liabilities and changes in fair
value are recognized in Trading revenue.
Finally, the Firm may enter into transactions with SPEs structured
by other parties. These transactions can include, for example, 
acting as derivative counterparty, liquidity provider, investor,

underwriter, trustee or custodian. These transactions are conducted

at armsÕ length and individual credit decisions are based upon 

the analysis of the specific SPE, taking into consideration the
qualityof the 
underlying assets. Typically, the Firm would not be
the sole liquidity provider to a third-party SPE. JPMorgan Chase

records and reports these positions similar to any other third-party
transaction. For example, derivative contracts are recorded at fair

value and reported in Note 3, whereas liquidity facilities are

included within the FirmÕs 
lending-related 
commitments describedin more detail in Note 29. Fees received when the Firm operates in

an administrative capacity, such as underwriter, trustee or custodi-

an, are recorded 
in Fees and commissions. Multi-seller conduitsJPMorgan Chase serves as the administrator and provides con-
tingent liquidity support and limited credit enhancement for sev-

eral commercial paper conduits. These conduits provide clients

access to liquidity in the commercial paper markets by allowing

them to sell assets to the conduit, which then issues commercial

paper to investors to fund the purchases. The Firm does not sell

assets to these commercial paper conduits. Commercial paper

issued by conduits for which the Firm acts as administrator
aggregated $17.5 billion at December 31, 2002. The commer-

cial paper issued is backed by sufficient collateral, credit

enhancements and commitments to provide liquidity to support

receiving at least an A-1, P-1 and, in certain cases, an F-1 rating. JPMorgan Chase Bank has commitments to provide liquidity to
these vehicles in an amount up to $23.5 billion. The Firm would
be required to provide funding under the liquidity commitments

in the event that funding for such SPEs became unavailable in
the commercial paper market. In addition, if JPMorgan Chase

Bank were downgraded below A-1, P-1 and, in certain cases, 

F-1, the Firm could also be required to provide funding under

these commitments, since commercial paper rated below A-1, 

P-1 or F-1 would generally not be issuable by the vehicle. Under
these circumstances, JPMorgan Chase Bank could either replace

itself as liquidity provider or facilitate the sale or refinancing of

the assets held in the SPE in other markets. JPMorgan Chase
applies the same underwriting standards in making liquidity

commitments to conduits as the Firm would with other exten-
sions of credit.
For certain multi-seller conduits, JPMorgan Chase also provides
limited credit enhancement, primarily through the issuance of

letters of credit. Under the letters of credit, the Firm could be

required to fund the difference between the commercial paper
outstanding and amounts drawn under the liquidity commit-
ment, if any. As of December 31, 2002, commitments under

these letters of credit totaled $3.4 billion.
The Firm has limited credit exposure to multi-seller conduit
transactions. This is because, for the most part, the Firm is not
required to fund under the liquidity facilities if the assets in the
SPE are in default. Additionally, the FirmÕs obligations under the

letters of credit are secondary to the risk of first loss provided by

the client or other third partiesÐfor example, by the overcollat-

eralization of the SPE with the assets sold to it.Client intermediationAs a financial intermediary, the Firm is involved in structuring

SPE transactions to meet investor and client needs. The Firm
intermediates various types of risks (including, for example, fixed
income, equity and credit) typically using derivative instruments.

In certain circumstances, the Firm also provides liquidity and

other support to the SPEs to facilitate the transaction. Each of
the FirmÕs relationships with the SPEs is reflected on the FirmÕs

Consolidated balance sheet or in the Notes to the financial87J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Variable interest entities
In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN 46. Entities that would 
be assessed for consolidation under FIN 46 are typically SPEs,

although other non-SPE-type entities may also be subject to the
guidance. FIN 46 requires a variable interest entity to be consoli-

dated by a company if that company will absorb a majority of
the expected losses, will receive a majority of the expected 

residual returns, or both. Transferors to a QSPE, which represent
a majority of the FirmÕs loan securitization transactions discussed

above, and certain other interests in a QSPE, are not subject to

the requirements of FIN 46. The Firm is required to apply FIN 46

for variable interest entities created or modified after January

31, 2003, in which the Firm has an interest. For variable interest

entities created prior to February 1, 2003, the provisions of 

FIN 46 are effective July 1, 2003. 
Variable interest entities with which the Firm is involved that 
do not meet the QSPE criteria primarily include the multi-seller 
conduits and the client intermediation vehicles described above.
The Firm is also involved with other entities that could be
deemed variable interest entities and, therefore, could be subject

to FIN 46. These entities would include certain majority-owned
subsidiaries reported in the FirmÕs consolidated financial statements. 
The Firm is assessing the impact of FIN 46 on all variable interest
entities with which it is involved. The multi-seller conduits, which
have $17.5 billion of commercial paper outstanding as of

December 31, 2002, would, in their current form, be required 

to be consolidated on the FirmÕs balance sheet when FIN 46 is

implemented. The Firm is analyzing restructuring options for the

multi-seller conduits. Based upon its current interpretation of FIN

46, the Firm does not believe that it would be required to con-

solidate the vehicles related to the credit-linked notes or the

client intermediation transactions (with assets of $7.9 billion and
$7.4 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2002). Management

is continuing to assess the possible consolidation of other entities
that could be deemed variable interest entities, including the

structured commercial loan vehicles. At this time, management

does not believe that the implementation of FIN 46 will have a
material impact on the FirmÕs 
Consolidated balance sheet, earn-
ings or capital resources.
Mortgage servicing rightsJPMorgan Chase recognizes as intangible assets Mortgage servicing

rights (ÒMSRsÓ),which represent the right to perform specified

residential mortgage servicing activities for others. Servicing activ-ities include collecting principal, interest, and escrow payments

from borrowers; making tax and insurance payments on behalf

of the borrowers; monitoring delinquencies and executing fore-

closure proceedings; and accounting for and remitting principal

and interest payments to the investors of the mortgage-backed

securities. MSRs are either purchased from third parties or

retained upon sale or securitization of mortgage loans.Note 12The amount capitalized as MSRs represents the current fair value
of future net cash flows expected to be realized for performing 

the servicing activities. MSR fair values are estimated using a dis-

counted future cash flow model that considers portfolio character-

istics, contractually specified servicing fees and managementÕs

assumptions regarding prepayment speeds, delinquency rates, late

charges, other ancillary revenues, the cost to service the mortgage

loans, as well as other economic factors. Management uses its
best judgment to estimate fair value. Since many economic factors
can affect the estimate of the fair value of MSRs, the Firm periodi-

cally assesses the assumptions and modeling techniques used to
estimate the fair value of its MSRs.MSRs are amortized as a reduction of the actual servicing income
received in proportion to, and over the period of, the estimated
future net servicing income stream of the underlying mortgage

loans. For purposes of evaluating and measuring impairment of
MSRs, the Firm stratifies its portfolio on the basis of the predomi-

nant risk characteristics: loan type and interest rate. Any indicated

impairment is recognized as a reduction in revenue through a 

valuation allowance to the extent that the carrying value of an
individual stratum exceeds its estimated fair value.The carrying value of MSRs is sensitive to changes in interest rates,
including their effect on prepayment speeds. The Firm offsets this

interest rate risk by designating certain interest rate derivatives

(e.g., a combination of swaps, swaptions and floors that produces

an interest rate profile opposite to the MSRs) as fair value hedges

of specified MSRs under SFAS 133. SFAS 133 hedge accounting

allows the carrying value of the hedged MSRs to be adjusted
through earnings in the same period that the change in value of

the hedging derivatives is recognized through earnings. Both of

these valuation adjustments are recorded in the mortgage servicing

fees component within Fees and commissions. For a further discus-
sion on derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 28
on pages 101 and 102.AFS securities and certain ÒnonhedgeÓ derivatives are also used 
to manage the risk exposure of MSRs. These instruments are

accounted for as stand-alone instruments because AFS securities
do not qualify as hedges under SFAS 133, and the derivatives

have not been designated by management as hedging derivatives.
Accordingly, the securities are accounted for as AFS securities

under SFAS 115 and the ÒnonhedgeÓ derivatives are accounted

for as trading derivatives. Realized gains and losses on the AFS
securities are recognized in earnings in Securities gains (losses);

gains and losses on the ÒnonhedgeÓ derivatives are recognized

in earnings in Trading revenue. Unrealized gains and losses on

AFS securities are reported in Other comprehensive income. For

a further discussion of the risk management activities regarding

MSRs, see the Chase Financial Services segment discussion on
pages 35 and 36.Notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report88
Private equity investmentsPrivate equity investments are primarily held by JPMorgan
Partners (ÒJPMPÓ), the FirmÕs global private equity investment

business segment. These investments include public and private
investments that are made in the normal course of JPMPÕs busi-

ness. Private equity investments are accounted for under invest-
ment companyguidelines. Accordingly, these investments, irre-
spective of the percentage of equity ownership interest held by

JPMP, are carried on the Consolidated balance sheet at fair value. 
The fair value of public investments held by JPMP are marked-
to-market at the quoted public value. To determine the carrying

values of these investments, JPMP incorporates the use of liquidity
discounts to take into account the fact that it cannot immediately
realize or hedge the quoted public values as a result of regulatory,
corporate and/or contractual sales restrictions imposed on these

holdings. Private investments are initially valued based on cost.

The carrying values of private investments are adjusted from

cost to reflect both positive and negative changes evidencedby

financing events with third-party capital providers. In addition,

these investments are subject to ongoing impairment reviews 

by JPMPÕs senior investment professionals. A variety of factors

are reviewed and monitored to assess impairment including, 
but not limited to, operating performance and future expecta-

tions, comparable industry valuations of public companies,
changes in market outlook and changes in the third-party

financing environment. 
Realized and unrealized gains and losses arising from changes 
in value are r
eported in Private equity realized gains (losses) and
Private equityunr
ealized gains (losses), respectively, in the
Consolidated statement of income in the period that the gain or
loss occurs.The following table presents the carrying value and cost of the
private equity investment portfolio for the dates indicated:20022001 CarryingCarryingDecember 31,(in millions)valueCost
valueCost
Total investment portfolio
$8,228$10,312
$9,197$10,528
The following table presents private equity investment realized
and unrealized gains and losses for the periods indicated:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)20022001 2000Realized gains (losses)
$(105)$651$2,051
Unrealized gains (losses)
(641)(1,884)(1,036)
Private equity gains (losses)
(a)$(746)$(1,233)$1,015
(a)Includes the impact of portfolio hedging activities.
Note 13The following table summarizes mortgage servicing rights activityand related amortization for the dates indicated. It also includes the

key assumptions and the sensitivity of the fair value of MSRs at
December 31, 2002 to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes
in each of those assumptions:Year ended December 31,(in millions)200220012000
Balance at beginning of year$7,749$6,461$5,187
Additions2,0713,3942,194
SalesÑ(103)(290)
SFAS 133 hedge valuation adjustments
(3,589)(880)Ñ
Pre-SFAS 133 hedging activities
ÑÑ78
Amortization(1,367)(1,123)(708)
Balance at end of year4,8647,7496,461
Less:Valuation allowance
(1,634)(1,170)(99)
Balance at end of year,after valuation allowance
$3,230$6,579$6,362
Estimated fair value at year-end
$3,230$6,579$6,411
2002Weighted-average prepayment speed assumption (CPR) 
28.5%Impact on fair value with 10% adverse change
$(256)Impact on fair value with 20% adverse change
$(479)Weighted-average discount rate 
7.7%Impact on fair value with 10% adverse change
$(55)Impact on fair value with 20% adverse change
$(108)CPR:Constant prepayment rate.
The sensitivity analysis in the preceding table is hypothetical and
should be used with caution. As the figures indicate, changes in

fair value based on a 10% and 20% variation in assumptions
generally cannot be easily extrapolated because the relationship

of the change in the assumptions to the change in fair value
may not be linear. Also, in this table, the effect that a change in

a particular assumption may have on the fair value is calculated
without changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in

one factor may result in changes in another, which might mag-

nify or counteract the sensitivities.The valuation allowance represents the extent to which the car-
rying value of MSRs exceeds its estimated fair value. Changes in
the valuation allowance are the result of the recognition of

impairment or the recovery of previously recognized impairment

charges due to changes in market conditions during the period.
The changes in the valuation allowance for MSRs for the dates
indicated were as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)200220012000
Balance at beginning of year$1,170$99$Ñ
Impairment adjustment4641,07199
Balance at end of year$1,634$1,170$99
89J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Goodwill and other intangibles
Effective January 1, 2002, the Firm 
adopted SFAS 142,
reclassify-ing certain intangible assets from Goodwill to Other intangible

assets. There was no impairment of goodwill upon adoption of

SFAS 142.
Goodwill is not amortized, but instead tested for impairment atthe reporting unit segment (which is one level below the five

major business segments as described in Note 33 on page 108).
Goodwill is tested annually (during the fourth quarter) or more

often if events or circumstances, such as adverse changes in the

business climate, indicate that there may be impairment. Other

acquired intangible assets determined to have finite lives, such

as core deposits and credit card relationships, are amortized

over their estimated useful lives in a manner that best reflects

the economic benefits of the intangible asset. In addition,
impairment testing is performed periodically on these amortizing
intangible assets. For a discussion of capitalized MSRs, see Note
12 on page 87.The following table presents the impact of SFAS 142 on net
income and earnings per share had the accounting standard

been in effect for 2001 and 2000:
Note 14GoodwillAfter giving effect to the adoption of SFAS 142, goodwill
increased during 2002 by $63 million, principally in connection

with acquisitions of businesses by Treasury & Securities Services.

Goodwill was also reduced during the year by purchase

accounting adjustments. Goodwill was not impaired at

December 31, 2002, nor was any goodwill written off during

2002. As of December 31, 2002, the Firm had goodwill of
$8,096 million. Goodwill by business segment is as follows:
Investment Bank, $2,051 million; Investment Management &
Private Banking, $4,165 million; Treasury & Securities Services,

$996 million; JPMorgan Partners, $377 million and Chase
Financial Services, $507 million.Other intangible assetsFor the year ended December 31, 2002, purchased credit card

relationship intangibles increased by approximately $1,030 mil-
lion, primarily due to the acquisition of Providian intangibles,

which have an estimated life of seven years. In addition, other
intangibles, primarily customer relationships other than credit

card, increased by $72 million. All of the FirmÕs acquired 

intangible assets are subject to amortization. For the year ended

December 31, 2002, intangible assets amortization expense was
$323 million. This amount included a $12 million impairment
write-down on purchased credit card relationships related to a

small credit card portfolio that had been acquired previously. 
The components of other intangible assets were as follows: 
December 31,20022002 Full Year
GrossAccumulatedNet carryingAmortization
(in millions)amountamortizationvalueexpense
Purchased credit cardrelationships$1,884$615$1,269
$280All other intangibles672365307
43Amortization expense for the net carrying amount of intangibleassets is estimated to be $302 million in 2003, $285 million 
in 2004, $270 million in 2005, $255 million in 2006 and $219
million in 2007.The Other intangible assets above do not include mortgageservicing rights; amortization of mortgage servicing rights is
recorded as a reduction of mortgage servicing revenues within
Fees and commissions. See Note 12 for a discussion of
Mortgage servicing rights.Premises and equipment
Premises and equipment, including leasehold improvements, are

carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization.

JPMorgan Chase generally computes depreciation using the

straight-line method over the estimated useful life of an asset.
For leasehold improvements, the Firm uses the straight-line

method over the lesser of the remaining term of the leased

facility or the estimated economic life of the improvement.

JPMorgan Chase capitalizes certain costs associated with the
acquisition or development of internal-use software. Once the

software is ready for its intended use, these costs are amortized

on a straight-line basis over the softwareÕs expected useful life.
Note 15Pro FormaPro Forma
(in millions,except earnings per share)
200220012000
Net IncomeIncome before effect of accounting change$1,663$1,719$5,727
Net effect of change in accounting principleÑ(25)Ñ
Net income1,6631,6945,727
Goodwill amortization,net of taxes
Ñ393249
Adjusted net income$1,663$2,087$5,976
Basic Earnings per Share
Reported basic earnings per share(a)$0.81$0.83$2.99
Goodwill amortizationÑ0.190.13
Adjusted basic earnings per share$0.81$1.02$3.12
Diluted Earnings per Share
Reported diluted earnings per share(a)$0.80$0.80$2.86
Goodwill amortizationÑ0.190.13
Adjusted diluted earnings per share$0.80$0.99$2.99
(a)Based on Net income.
Notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report90
Long-term debtJPMorgan Chase issues long-term debt denominated in various currencies, although predominately U.S. dollars, with both fixed an
d variable interest rates. The following table is a summary of long-term debt (net of unamortized original issue debt discount an
d SFAS 133 valuation adjustments):
By remaining contractual maturity at December 31,
UnderAfter2002
2001(in millions)1 year1-5 years5 yearstotal
totalParent companySenior debt:Fixed rate
$353$9,938$1,225$11,516
$6,679Variable rate
4,7363,5403818,657
11,777Interest rates
(a)1.47% Ð 5.50%1.22% Ð 7.50%0.96% Ð 6.63%0.96% Ð 7.50%
0.20% Ð 8.00%Subordinated debt:Fixed rate
$617$3,604$9,618$13,839
$12,451Variable rate
4413123301,083
2,325Interest rates
(a)4.35% Ð 8.50%4.78% Ð 7.88%5.75% Ð 8.25%4.35% Ð 8.50%
2.56% Ð 8.63%Subtotal$6,147$17,394$11,554$35,095
$33,232SubsidiariesSenior debt:Fixed rate
$496$1,344$1,008$2,848
$2,407Variable rate
132149444725
1,930Interest rates
(a)1.55% Ð 10.23%3.63% Ð 10.95%3.55% Ð 27.39%1.55% Ð 27.39%
1.06% Ð 26.97%Subordinated debt:Fixed rate
$Ñ$426$
379$805
$1,149Variable rate
278ÑÑ278
465Interest rates
(a)4.20% Ð 4.55%6.63% Ð 7.00%6.13% Ð 6.70%4.20% Ð 7.00%
4.12% Ð 7.38%Subtotal$906$1,919$1,831$4,656
$5,951Total long-term debt$7,053$19,313$13,385$39,751
(b)(c)(d)$39,183(a)The interest rates shown are the range of contractual rates in effect at year-end,including non-U.S.dollar fixed and variabl
e rate issuances which excludes the effects of related derivative instruments.The 
use of these derivative instruments modifies JPMorgan ChaseÕs exposure to the contractual interest rates disclosed in the table
 above.Including the effects of derivatives,the range of modified rates in effect
at December 31,2002,for total long-term debt was 0.15% to 10.95%,versus the contractual range of 0.96% to 27.39% presented in t
he table above.
(b)At December 31,2002,long-term debt aggregating $2.5 billion was redeemable at the option of JPMorgan Chase,in whole or in pa
rt,prior to maturity,based on the terms specified in the respective notes.
(c)The aggregate principal amount of debt that matures in each of the five years subsequent to 2002 is $7.1 billion in 2003,$6.
3 billion in 2004,$3.8 billion in 2005,$2.8 billion in 2006 and $6.4 billion 
in 2007.
(d)Includes $1.1 billion of outstanding zero-coupon notes at December 31,2002.The aggregate principal amount of these notes at 
their respective maturities is $4.1 billion.Note 16The weighted-average contractual interest rate for total long-
term debt was 5.51% and 5.12% as of December 31, 2002
and 2001, respectively. In order to modify exposure to interest

rate and currency exchange rate movements, JPMorgan Chase

utilizes derivative instruments, primarily interest rate and cross-

currency interest rate swaps, in conjunction with some of its

debt issues. The use of these instruments modifies the FirmÕs

interest expense on the associated debt. The modified weighted-

average interest rate for total long-term debt, including the

effects of related derivative instruments, was 3.42% and 4.64%

as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. 
JPMorgan Chase has guaranteed certain debt of its subsidiaries,including both long-term debt and structured notes sold as part

of the FirmÕs trading activities. These guarantees rank on a parity

with all other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness of

JPMorgan Chase. Guaranteed liabilities totaled $1.5 billion and

$805 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.
Guaranteed preferred beneficial interests in the FirmÕs
junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures
At December 31, 2002, 12 wholly owned Delaware statutory
business trusts established by JPMorgan Chase had issued an
aggregate $5.4 billion in capital securities, net of discount. 

The capital securities qualify as Tier 1 capital of the Firm. The

proceeds from each issuance were invested in a corresponding

series of junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures of

JPMorgan Chase. The sole asset of each statutory business trust
is the relevant debenture. The Firm has fully and unconditionally

guaranteed each of the business trustÕs obligations under each

trustÕs capital securities to the extent set forth in the guarantee.

Each trustÕs capital securities are subject to mandatory redemp-

tion, in whole or in part, upon repayment of the debentures at

their stated maturity or earlier redemption.
91J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
The following is a summary of the outstanding capital securities, net of discount, issued by each trust and the junior subordin
ateddeferrable interest debenture issued by JPMorgan Chase to each trust as of December 31, 2002:
($ in millions)Amount of capitalPrincipal amount Stated maturity ofEarliestInterest rate ofInterest
securities,net of discount of debenture,Issuecapital securitiesredemptioncapital securitiespayment/distribution
Name of trustissued by trust
(a)held by trust(b)dateand debenturesdateand debenturesdates
Chase Capital I$600$6191996202620067.67%Semiannually - Commencing 1997
Chase Capital II495516199720272017LIBOR + 0.50%Quarterly - Commencing 1997

Chase Capital III296309199720272012LIBOR + 0.55%Quarterly - Commencing 1997

Chase Capital IV35036119972027Anytime7.34%Quarterly - Commencing 1998

Chase Capital V2002061998202820037.03%Quarterly - Commencing 1998

Chase Capital VI248258199820282003LIBOR + 0.625%Quarterly - Commencing 1998

Chase Capital VII3503611999202920047.00%Quarterly - Commencing 1999

Chase Capital VIII2502582000203020058.25%Quarterly - Commencing 2000

JPM Capital Trust I7507731996202720077.54%Semiannually - Commencing 1997

JPM Capital Trust II4004121997202720077.95%Semiannually - Commencing 1997

JPMorgan Chase Capital IX5005152001203120067.50%Quarterly - Commencing 2001
JPMorgan Chase Capital X1,0001,0312002203220077.00%Quarterly - Commencing 2002
Total$5,439$5,619
(a)Represents the amount of capital securities issued to the public by each trust.These amounts are reflected as liabilities of
 JPMorgan Chase.
(b)Represents the principal amount of JPMorgan Chase debentures held as assets by each trust.These amounts represent intercompa
ny transactions and are eliminated in JPMorgan ChaseÕs consolidated
financial statements.
Preferred stock of subsidiary
Chase Preferred Capital Corporation (ÒChase Preferred
CapitalÓ), a wholly owned subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase Bank,
a bank subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase, is a real estate investment

trust (ÒREITÓ) established for the purpose of acquiring, holding
and managing real estate mortgage assets. At December 31,

2001, there were 22 million shares of 8.10% cumulative pre-
Note 17Preferred stock
JPMorgan Chase is authorized to issue 200 million shares of 
preferred stock, in one or more series, with a par value of $1

per share. Outstanding preferred stock at both December 31,

2002 and 2001 was 17.8 million shares. The Firm did not

redeem or repurchase any preferred stock during 2002. During
2001, the Firm redeemed its 10.84% cumulative preferred

stock, its variable cumulative preferred stock, Series B, C, D, E

and F, and repurchased 119,567 shares of its 6.63% Series H

cumulative preferred stock.
Note 18Stated value andSharesOutstanding at December 31,EarliestRate in effect at
redemption price per share(a)(in millions) 2002(in millions) 2001redemption dateDecember 31,2002
Adjustable rate,Series A cumulative$100.002.42
$242$242See Note
(b)5.00%(c)Adjustable rate,Series L cumulative100.002.00
200200See Note
(b)4.50(c)Adjustable rate,Series N cumulative25.009.10
228228See Note
(b)4.50(c)Fixed/adjustable rate,noncumulative50.004.00
2002006/30/20034.96
(c)6.63% Series H cumulative500.000.28
1391393/31/20066.63
Total preferred stock$1,009$1,009(a)Redemption price includes amount shown in the table plus any accrued but unpaid dividends.
(b)The shares are redeemable at any time with not less than 30 nor more than 60 daysÕ notice.

(c)Floating rates are based on certain U.S.Treasury rates.The minimum and maximum rates for Series A are 5.00% and 11.50% and f
or Series L and Series N are 4.50% and 10.50%,respectively.The
fixed/adjustable rate preferred stock remains fixed at 4.96% through June 30,2003;thereafter,the minimum and maximum rates are 
5.46% and 11.46%,respectively.
Dividends on shares of each outstanding series of preferred
stock are payable quarterly. All the preferred stock outstanding

have preference over JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock for the

payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event
of a liquidation or dissolution of JPMorgan Chase. The following is a summary of JPMorgan ChaseÕs preferred stock
outstanding:ferred stock, Series A (ÒSeries Apreferred sharesÓ) issued and
outstanding (liquidation preference, $25 per share), or $550

million. 
The Series A preferred shares qualified as Tier 1 capi-
tal of the parent holding company. On February 28, 2002,

Chase Preferred Capital redeemed all 22 million outstanding

sharesat a redemption price per share of $25 plus 
accruedand unpaid dividends. Notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report92
Common stockJPMorgan Chase is authorized to issue 4.5 billion shares of 
common stock, with a $1 par value per share. The number of

shares of common stock issued and outstanding at each of the

dates indicated were as follows:
December 31,(in millions)
200220012000
Issued2,023.61,996.91,940.1
(a)Held in treasury(24.9)(23.5)(11.6)
(a)Outstanding1,998.71,973.41,928.5
(a)Under the terms of the merger agreement,on December 31,2000,all 126.4 million treasury
shares of J.P.Morgan were canceled and retired.
Note 19Earnings per share
SFAS 128 requires the presentation of basic and diluted earn-
ings per share (ÒEPSÓ) in the income statement. Basic EPS is

computed by dividing net income applicable to common stockby the weighted-average number of common shares outstand-

ing for the period. Diluted EPS is computed using the same
method as basic EPS, but, in the denominator, common shares

outstanding reflect the potential dilution that could occur if 

convertible securities or other contracts to issue common stock
were converted or exercised into common stock. Net income

available for common stock is the same computation for basic
EPS and diluted EPS as JPMorgan Chase had no convertible
securities, and, therefore, no adjustments to net income available

for common stock were necessary. 
Basic and diluted earnings per share were as follows for the
dates indicated:Year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share data)
200220012000
Basic earnings per share
Net income$1,663$1,694$5,727
Less:Preferred stock dividends
516696
Net income applicable to common stock$1,612$1,628$5,631
Weighted-average basic shares outstanding
1,984.31,972.41,884.1
Net income per share
$0.81$0.83$2.99
Diluted earnings per share
Net income applicable to common stock$1,612$1,628$5,631
Weighted-average basic shares outstanding
1,984.31,972.41,884.1
Add:Broad-based options
2.86.610.1
Key employee options 22.044.674.8
Weighted-average diluted shares outstanding
2,009.12,023.61,969.0
Net income per share
(a)$0.80$0.80$2.86
(a)Options issued under employee benefit plans to purchase 362 million,190 million and 
36 million shares of common stock were outstanding for the years ended 2002,2001 and

2000,respectively,but were not included in the computation of diluted EPS because the

optionsÕ exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the common shares.
Note 20The Firm did not repurchase shares of its common stock during
2002. During 2001, the Firm repurchased 21.9 million shares of

common stock under a plan which began on July 19, 2001. During 2002, approximately 25.3 million shares were issued
under various employee stock option and other stock-based
plans. During 2001, approximately 65.0 million shares were

issued under various employee stock option and other stock-
based plans, and approximately 1.8 million shares were issued in

connection with acquisitions accounted by the purchase method.
JPMorgan Chase shareholders approved a three-for-two stock
split at their annual meeting on May 16, 2000. The additional
shares of the FirmÕs common stock issued as a result of the split

were distributed on June 9, 2000. 
As of December 31, 2002, approximately 424 million unissued
shares of common stock were reserved for issuance under 

various employee incentive, option and stock purchase plans. 
Common shares issued (newly issued or distributed from treasury) by
JPMorgan Chase during 2002, 2001 and 2000 were as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200220012000
Employee benefit and compensation plans(a)24.164.479.4
Dividend reinvestment and stock purchase plans1.20.62.4
Purchase accounting acquisitions and otherÑ1.869.0
Total shares newly issued or distributed from treasury(b)25.366.8150.8
(a)See Note 24 for a discussion of JPMorgan ChaseÕs employee stock option plans.
(b)Shares distributed from treasury were 2.5 million in 2002,15.8 million in 2001 and 153.2
million in 2000.Shares forfeited to treasury were 3.9 million in 2002,5.8 million in 2001 and

2.4 million in 2000.93J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Comprehensive income
Comprehensive income is composed of Net income and Other
comprehensive income, which includes the after-tax change in

unrealized gains and losses on AFS securities, cash flow hedging

activities and foreign currency translation adjustments (including

the impact of related derivatives).
The following table presents Other comprehensive income
(ÒOCIÓ) balances:AccumulatedYear ended UnrealizedCashother
December 31,gains (losses)Translationflowcomprehensive
(in millions)on AFS securities
(a)adjustmentshedgesincome (loss)
Balance December 31,1999$
(1,427)$(1)NA$(1,428)
Net change1,1834NA1,187
Balance December 31,2000
(244)3NA(241)
Net change109(5)$(305)(201)
Balance December 31,2001
(135)(2)(305)(442)
Net change866(4)
(b)807(d)1,669Balance December 31,2002$731$(6)
(c)$502$1,227
(a)Primarily represents the after-tax difference between the fair value and amortized cost of the
AFS securities portfolio.The net change for 2000 includes unrealized gains and losses on

related hedges.
(b)Includes $195 million of after-tax gains on foreign currency translation from operations 
for which the functional currency is other than the U.S.dollar,which was offset by 

$199 million of after-tax losses on hedges.
(c)Includes after-tax gains and losses on foreign currency translation including related hedge
results from operations for which the functional currency is other than the U.S.dollar.
(d)Includes $144 million of after-tax losses recognized in income and $663 million of after-tax
gains representing the net change in derivative fair values that were recorded in Other com-

prehensive income.
NA-Not applicable as SFAS 133 was adopted effective January 1,2001.
The net change amount, in the following table, represents the
sum of net unrealized holding gains (losses) and reclassification

adjustments of AFS securities. Reclassification adjustments
include amounts recognized in net income during the current

year that had been part of Other comprehensive income in 

previous years.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200220012000
Net unrealized holdings gains (losses)arising during the period,net of taxes
(a)$1,090$443$1,212
Reclassification adjustment for (gains) lossesincluded in net income,net of taxes
(b)(224)(334)(29)
Net change$866$109$1,183
(a)Net of tax expense of $758 million for 2002,$308 million for 2001 and $808 million for 2000.
(b)Net of tax expense of $156 million for 2002,$232 million for 2001 and $20 million in 2000.
Note 21Income taxesJPMorgan Chase and its eligible subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. JPMorgan Chase uses the asset

and liability method required by SFAS 109 to provide income

taxes on all transactions recorded in the consolidated financial

statements. This requires that income taxes reflect the expected

future tax consequences of temporary differences between 

the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities for book and tax
purposes. Accordingly, a deferred tax liability or asset for each

temporary difference is determined based on the tax rates that

JPMorgan Chase expects to be in effect when the underlying

items of income and expense are to be realized. JPMorgan

ChaseÕs expense for income taxes includes the current and

deferred portions of that expense. A valuation allowance is

established to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount

JPMorgan Chase expects to be realized. 
Deferred income tax expense (benefit) results from differences
between assets and liabilities measured for financial reporting

and for income tax return purposes. The significant compo-

nents of deferred tax assets and liabilities are reflected in the

following table:December 31,(in millions)
20022001Deferred tax assets
Allowance for loan losses
$1,675$1,502Employee benefits1,6212,748Allowance for other than loan losses
1,251768Non-U.S.operations
652632Fair value adjustments
Ñ384Foreign tax credit carryforward
25(a)100Gross deferred tax assets$5,224$6,134Deferred tax liabilities
Leasing transactions
$3,175$2,700Fair value adjustments
1,107ÑDepreciation and amortization857773Other379255Gross deferred tax liabilities$5,518$3,728Valuation allowance
$165$165
Net deferred tax asset (liability)$(459)$2,241(a)Includes $20 million,$2 million,and $3 million expiring in 2005,2006 and 2007,respectively.
A valuation allowance has been recorded in accordance with
SFAS 109, primarily relating to tax benefits associated with non-

U.S. operations and with U.S. state and local deferred tax assets.
Note 22Notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report94
The following table presents the U.S. and non-U.S. components
of income before income tax expense:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200220012000
U.S.
$1,834$1,258$5,844
Non-U.S.
(a)6851,3082,889
Income before income tax expense$2,519$2,566$8,733
(a)For purposes of this table,non-U.S.income is defined as income generated from operations
located outside the United States.
The components of income tax expense included in theConsolidated statement of income were as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200220012000
Current income tax expense (benefit)U.S.federal
$(1,334)$598$1,976
Non-U.S.
4618221,224
U.S.state and local9365356
Total current expense (benefit)(780)1,4853,556
Deferred income tax expense (benefit)U.S.federal
1,630(618)(695)
Non-U.S.
(352)(73)187
U.S.state and local358(a)53(42)
Total deferred expense (benefit) 1,636(638)(550)
Total income tax expense$856$847$3,006
(a)The increase in 2002 is principally attributable to the level of income in certain state and local
tax jurisdictions in 2002.The preceding table does not reflect the tax effects of unreal-
ized gains and 
losses on AFS securities, SFAS 133 hedge transac-
tions and certain tax benefits associated with JPMorgan ChaseÕs

employee stock plans. The tax effect of these items is recorded

directly in StockholdersÕ equity. StockholdersÕ equity decreased

by $1.1 billion and $281 million in 2002 and 2000, respectively,

and increased by $541 million in 2001 as a result of these tax

effects.
U.S. federal income taxes have not been provided on the undistrib-
uted earnings of certain non-U.S. 
subsidiaries to the extent suchearnings have been reinvested abroad for an indefinite periodof

time. For 2002, such earnings approximated $274 million on a pre-

tax basis. At December 31, 2002, the cumulative amount of undis-
tributed earnings in these subsidiaries approximated $1.9 billion. 

It is not practicable at this time to determine the income tax liability
that would result upon repatriation of these earnings.
The tax expense applicable to securities gains and losses for theyears 2002, 2001 and 2000 was $531 million, $286 million and
$78 million, respectively.
A reconciliation of the applicable statutory U.S. income tax rate 
to the effective tax rate for the past three years is shown in the 

following table:Postretirement employee benefit plans
Defined Benefit Pension Plans and Postretirement
Medical and Life InsuranceJPMorgan Chase has a qualified noncontributory U.S. pensionplan that provides defined benefits to substantially all U.S.

employees. The U.S. plan employs a cash balance defined benefit

formula in the form of service and interest credits in determining

the benefits to be provided at retirement based on eligible com-

pensation and years of service. Employees begin to accrue plan
benefits after completing one year of service and benefits vest
after five years of service.The prior plans of Chase and J.P. Morgan were merged as of
December 31, 2001. For J.P. Morgan employees who were earning

benefits under a prior plan formula as of December 31, 1998,
the plan also provides a minimum benefit based on eligible com-

pensation and years of service through December 31, 2003. The

Firm also offers defined benefits to qualifying employees in certain

non-U.S. locations based on eligible compensation and years of
service. The FirmÕs defined benefit pension plans are accounted

for in accordance with SFAS 87 and SFAS 88.
It is JPMorgan ChaseÕs policy to fund its pension plans in
amounts sufficient to meet the requirements under applicable

employee benefit and local tax laws. In 2002, the Firm made
cash contributions totaling $1.2 billion to fund fully the accumu-
lated benefit obligations of the U.S. and certain non-U.S. defined
benefit pension plans at December 31, 2002. On February 10,
2003, the Firm made an additional cash contribution of $127
million to fund fully the U.S. defined benefit pension plan to its
projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2002. These contri-

butions were made following the decline in value of plan assets

resulting from adverse capital market conditions. The Firm's U.S.
pension assets are held in a trust and are invested in equity, fixed

income, cash equivalent and other securities. U.S. pension assets
do not include JPMorgan Chase common stock except in con-
nection with investments in third-party stock-index funds.
The Firm offers postretirement medical and life insurance bene-
fits to qualifying U.S. employees. These benefits vary with length
of service and date of hire and provide for limits on JPMorgan

ChaseÕs share of covered medical benefits. The medical benefits

are contributory, while the life insurance benefits are noncon-

tributory. Postretirement medical benefits are also offered to

qualifying U.K. employees. The FirmÕs postretirement benefit

plans are accounted for in accordance with SFAS 106.
Note 23Year ended December 31,200220012000
Statutory U.S.federal tax rate
35.0%35.0%35.0%
Increase (decrease) in tax rate resulting from:

U.S.state and local income taxes,net of
federal income tax benefit
11.6(a)3.02.3
Tax-exempt income(6.8)(5.8)(2.1)
Non-U.S.subsidiary earnings
(3.2)(3.1)(1.1)
General business credits
(3.5)(1.8)(0.4)
Other,net
0.95.70.7
Effective tax rate
34.0%33.0%34.4%
(a)The increase in 2002 is principally attributable to the level of income in certain state and local
tax jurisdictions in 2002.95J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Defined benefit pension plansPostretirementU.S.Non-U.S.benefit plans
(a)As of December 31,(in millions)
200220012002200120022001Change in benefit obligationBenefit obligation at beginning of year $(4,007)$(3,898)$(1,100)$(1,135)$(1,056)$(941)Benefits earned during the year(174)(202)(16)(46)(12)(16)Interest cost on benefit obligations(275)(285)(62)(65)(69)(71)Plan amendmentsÑ21Ñ(4)103Employee contributionsÑÑ(1)(1)(14)(13)Actuarial gain (loss)(226)5(92)43(50)(102)Benefits paid37735247649985Curtailment gain64Ñ22Ñ27ÑSettlement gainÑÑ6ÑÑÑSpecial termination benefitsÑÑ(3)Ñ(57)ÑForeign exchange impact and otherÑÑ(130)44(4)(1)Benefit obligation at end of year$(4,241)$(4,007)$(1,329)$(1,100)$(1,126)$(1,056)Change in plan assetsFair value of plan assets at beginning of year
$4,048$4,314$1,058$1,055$1,089$358
Actual return on plan assets(406)(240)(150)(83)(74)(15)Firm contributions84932630418816757Settlement paymentsÑÑ(6)ÑÑÑBenefits paid(377)(352)(47)(64)(11)(14)Foreign exchange impact and otherÑÑ122(38)Ñ3Fair value of plan assets at end of year
$4,114(b)$4,048(b)$1,281$1,058$1,020$1,089Reconciliation of prepaid (accrued) benefit cost 
and total amounts recognized
Funded status$(127)(c)$41
$(48)$(42)$(106)$33
Unrecognized amounts:Net transition asset
ÑÑ(1)(1)ÑÑPrior service cost5678441027Net actuarial (gain) loss1,22429847715186(132)Prepaid (accrued) benefit cost reported in Other assets and Accrued expenses,respectively
$1,153$417$432(d)$112(d)$(10)$(72)(a) Includes postretirement benefit obligation of $38 million and $37 million and postretirement benefit liability (included in
 Accrued expenses) of $49 million and $44 million at December 31,2002 and
2001,respectively,for the U.K.plans,which are unfunded.
(b) At December 31,2002 and 2001,approximately $295 million and $307 million,respectively,of U.S.plan assets relate to surplus 
assets of group annuity contracts.
(c)On February 10,2003,the Firm made an additional cash contribution of $127 million to fund fully the projected benefit obliga
tion as of December 31,2002.
(d)At December 31,2002 and 2001,the liability (included in Accrued expenses) related to non-U.S.defined benefit pension plans t
hat JPMorgan Chase elected not to prefund fully totaled $81 million and$73 million,respectively.
Defined benefit pension plansPostretirementU.S.Non-U.S.benefit plans
(a)For the year ended December 31,(in millions)
200220012000
200220012000
200220012000
Components of net periodic benefit costsBenefits earned during the year$174$202$191
$16
$46$32
$12
$16$14
Interest cost on benefit obligations275285275
626538
697166
Expected return on plan assets(358)(379)(385)
(76)(78)(46)
(98)(48)(27)
Amortization of unrecognized amounts:
Prior service cost7109
ÑÑÑ2Ñ(3)Net actuarial (gain) lossÑ(5)(14)
6(1)(1)
(10)(12)(18)
Curtailment (gain) loss(b)15ÑÑ(3)ÑÑ(8)ÑÑSettlement gainÑÑÑ(2)ÑÑÑÑÑSpecial termination benefits(b)ÑÑÑ3ÑÑ57ÑÑNet periodic benefit costs reported in Compensation expense$113$113$76
$6(c)$32$23
$24
$27$32
(a) Includes net periodic postretirement benefit costs of $2 million in 2002,$2 million in 2001,and $0.6 million in 2000 for th
e U.K.plans.
(b) Reflects expense recognized in 2002 due to management-initiated and outsourcing-related employee terminations.

(c)Decrease in net periodic pension benefit costs resulted from conversion of certain non-U.S.defined benefit pension plans to 
defined contribution plans.
The following tables present the funded status and amounts reported on the Consolidated balance sheet and the components of net
periodic benefit costs reported in the Consolidated statement of income for the FirmÕs U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pensio
n andpostretirement benefit plans:
Notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report96
JPMorgan ChaseÕs U.S. postretirement benefit obligation is par-
tially funded with corporate-owned life insurance (COLI) pur-
chased on the lives of eligible employees and retirees. Assets of

the COLI policies are held in separate accounts with an insurance

company and are invested in equities, bonds and other debt

securities. While JPMorgan Chase owns the COLI policies, COLI

proceeds (death benefits, withdrawals and other distributions)

may be used only to reimburse the Firm for its net postretirement

benefit claim payments and related administrative expenses.
The following table presents the weighted-average annualized
actuarial assumptions for the FirmÕs U.S. and non-U.S. defined

benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans as of

December 31:U.S.Non-U.S.
2002200120022001Discount rate
6.50%7.25%1.50%-5.60%2.50%-6.00%Assumed rate of long-term 
return on plan assets:Pension8.00%9.25%2.70%-6.50%3.25%-7.25%Postretirement benefit8.00%9.00%NANARate of increase in future compensation4.50%4.50%1.25%-3.00%2.00%-4.00%NAÐNot applicableWith all other assumptions held constant, a 25-basis point decline
in the assumed long-term rate of return on U.S. plan assets would

result in an increase of approximately $13 million in 2003 U.S. pen-
sion and other postretirement benefit expenses. A 25Ðbasis point

decline in the discount rate for the U.S. plans would result in an

increase in 2003 U.S. pension and other postretirement benefit

expenses of approximately $10 million and an increase in the related

benefit obligation of approximately $122 million. These increases

would be mostly offset by the effect of a similar reduction in the

assumed interest rate used for crediting participant balances.
JPMorgan Chase has a number of other defined benefit pensionplans (i.e., U.S. plans not subject to Title IV of the Employee

Retirement Income Security Act). The most significant of these

plans is the Excess Retirement Plan, where certain employees

earn service credits on compensation amounts above the maxi-

mum limitation stipulated by law. This plan is a nonqualified

noncontributory U.S. pension plan and is unfunded. Compensation
expense related to the FirmÕs other defined benefit pension

plans totaled $15 million in 2002, $22 million in 2001 and 
$22 million in 2000.Employee stock-based incentivesThrough December 31, 2002, JPMorgan Chase accounted for 
its employee stock-based compensation plans under the intrinsic

value method in accordance with APB 25. There is no expense rec-

ognized for stock options as they were granted at the stock price on

the grant date and, therefore, they have no intrinsic value.

Compensation expense for restricted stock and restricted stock units

(ÒRSUsÓ) is measured based on the number of shares granted and

the stock price at the grant date and recognized over the required

service period. Effective January 1, 2003, JPMorgan Chase will adopt

SFAS 123 using the prospective transition method. SFAS 123 requires

all stock-based compensation awards, including stock options, to be

accounted for at fair value. Under the prospective transition method,

all new awards granted to employees on or after January 1, 2003

will be accounted for at fair value. Awards outstanding as of

December 31, 2002, if not subsequently modified, continue to be

accounted for under APB 25. Fair value will be based on a Black-

Scholes valuation model with compensation expense recognized in

earnings over the required service period. It is estimated that the

adoption of SFAS123, with respect to employee stock-based com-

pensation awards granted in February 2003, will reduce the FirmÕs

net income by approximately $0.08 per share in 2003.
Note 24At December 31, 2002, JPMorgan ChaseÕs assumed weighted-
average medical benefits cost trend rate used to measure the

expected cost of benefits covered was 10.0% for 2002, declin-

ing gradually over eight years to a floor of 5.0%. The effect of a

1% change in the assumed medical cost trend rate would result

in a corresponding change in the December 31, 2002 benefit

obligation and 2002 periodic expense by up to 4.4%.Defined Contribution PlansJPMorgan Chase offers several defined contribution plans in the
U.S. and certain non-U.S. locations. The most significant of these
plans is the 401(k) Savings Plan covering substantially all U.S.

employees. This plan allows employees to make pre-tax contribu-

tions to tax-deferred investment portfolios. The Firm matches the

employeeÕs contributions dollar for dollar up to a certain percent-

age of eligible compensation per pay period, subject to plan and
legal limits. Employees begin to receive matching contributions

after completing one year of service and benefits vest after three

years of service. The FirmÕs defined contribution plans are admin-

istered in accordance with applicable local laws and regulations.

Compensation expense related to these plans totaled $251 mil-

lion in 2002, $208 million in 2001 and $213 million in 2000.The following table details the total number of shares available for issuance under JPMorgan Chase employee stock-based incenti
ve plans(including shares available for issuance to nonemployee directors). The Firm is not authorized to grant stock-based incentive a
wards to 
nonemployees other than to nonemployee directors.
Number of shares to beWeighted-averageNumber of shares remaining
December 31,2002issued upon exercise ofexercise price of available for future issuance under
(Shares in thousands) outstanding optionsoutstanding optionsequity compensation plans
Employee stock-based incentive plans approved by shareholders 221,353$38.54248,800
(a)Employee stock-based incentive plans not approved by shareholders 
189,44243.37162,000
Total410,795$40.77410,800
(a)Includes 101 million shares of restricted stock/RSUs available for grant in lieu of cash.
97J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Key employee stock-based awards
JPMorgan Chase grants long-term stock-based incentive awards
to certain key employees under two plans (the ÒLTI PlansÓ): the

Long-Term Incentive Plan, approved by shareholders in May

2000, provides for grants of stock options, stock appreciation

rights (ÒSARsÓ), restricted stock and RSU awards, and the Stock

Option Plan, a nonshareholder-approved plan, pr
ovides for grantsof stock options and SARs. SARs have not been granted under
either of these plans.Under the LTI Plans, stock options are granted with an exercise
price equal to JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock price on the grant

date. Generally, options cannot be exercised until at least one year
after the grant date and become exercisable over various periods
as determined at the time of the grant. Options generally expire

ten years after the grant date.In January 2001, JPMorgan Chase granted 82.2 million optionsunder the LTI Plans pursuant to a growth performance incentive

program (ÒGPIPÓ). The exercise price of all GPIP awards is $51.22,

the price of JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock on the grant date.

Because the corporate and business unit performance goals for
this award were not achieved, these options will become exercis-

able in January 2007, and expire ten years after the grant date.

Forfeitures of GPIPoptions aggregated 14.9 million shares through

December 31, 2002.The following table, which includes the GPIP awards, presents a summary of JPMorgan ChaseÕs option activity under the LTI Plans
 during thelast three years:
Year ended December 31,200220012000
Number of Weighted-average
Number ofWeighted-averageNumber ofWeighted-average
(Options in thousands)optionsexercise price
optionsexercise priceoptionsexercise price
Options outstanding,January 1
272,304$41.23
175,232$31.52183,456$27.99
Granted
53,23036.41
136,86351.0722,48848.24
Exercised(9,285)16.85
(28,954)25.69(25,106)20.25
Canceled(17,518)45.59
(10,837)49.94(5,606)34.29
Options outstanding,December 31
298,731$40.84
272,304$41.23175,232$31.52
Options exercisable,December 31
144,421$34.91
123,045$30.34130,479$27.46
The following table, which includes the GPIPawards, details the distribution of options outstanding under the LTI Plans at 
December 31, 2002:Options outstandingOptions exercisable
(Options in thousands)OptionsWeighted-averageWeighted-average remainingOptionsWeighted-average
Range of exercise pricesoutstandingexercise pricecontractual life (in years)exercisableexercise price
$3.41 Ð $20.0027,563$16.041.727,453$16.04
$20.01 Ð $35.0032,92127.774.030,42027.64

$35.01 Ð $50.00123,95640.227.066,58341.08
$50.01 Ð $65.58114,29151.277.719,96551.35
Total298,731$40.846.4144,421$34.91
Restricted stock and RSUs are granted by JPMorgan Chase
under the LTI Plans at no cost to the recipient. Restricted

stock/RSUs are subject to forfeiture until certain restrictions have

lapsed, including continued employment for a specified period.
The recipient of a share of restricted stock is entitled to voting

rights and dividends on the common stock. An RSU entitles the
recipient to receive a share of common stock after the applica-
ble restrictions lapse; the recipient is entitled to receive cash

payments equivalent to dividends on the underlying common
stock during the period the RSU is outstanding.During 2002, 24.0 million restricted stock/RSU awards (all
payable solely in stock) were granted by JPMorgan Chase under

the LTIPlans. In 
2001 and 2000, 25.9 million and 36.1 millionawards, respectively, were granted under these plans. The 2001

and 2000 grants each included 1.3 million restricted stock/RSU
awards that are forfeitable. The vesting of these awards is condi-
tioned upon certain vesting periods being met and JPMorgan
ChaseÕs common stock price reaching and sustaining target prices

within a five-year performance period. The expense related to the

forfeitable awards is recognized over the designated performance

period and measured based on the number of shares granted and

the target stock price. If the target stock price is achieved, then
any unrecognized amount is recognized as compensation expense

either immediately or over the remaining minimum required service

period if the target stock price is achieved prior to completion of
such period. The 2001, 2000 and 1999 forfeitable awards have

not vested as the target stock prices have not been achieved. See
comparison of the fair and intrinsic value measurement methods

on the following page for a discussion of the reversal of compen-

sation expense related to these forfeitable awards.
Notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report98
Year ended December 31,200220012000
Number ofWeighted-average
Number ofWeighted-averageNumber ofWeighted-average
(Options in thousands)optionsexercise price
optionsexercise priceoptionsexercise price
Options outstanding,January 1
87,393$41.86
67,237$38.1750,937$31.66
Granted
32,55036.85
26,04251.2228,05449.79
Exercised(674)15.01
(2,267)27.65(8,019)31.44
Canceled(6,114)41.14
(3,619)49.54(3,735)51.15
Options outstanding,December 31
113,155$40.62
87,393$41.8667,237$38.17
Options exercisable,December 31
38,864$31.95
40,390$31.7642,768$31.51
The following table details the distribution of broad-based employee stock options outstanding at December 31, 2002:
Options outstandingOptions exercisable
(Options in thousands)OptionsWeighted-averageWeighted-average remainingOptionsWeighted-average
Range of exercise pricesoutstandingexercise pricecontractual life (in years)exercisableexercise price
$10.26 Ð $20.007,147$12.811.37,147$12.81
$20.01 Ð $35.007,94228.794.07,94228.79

$35.01 Ð $50.0074,51641.197.423,77538.76
$50.01 Ð $65.5823,55051.228.1ÑÑ
Total113,155$40.626.938,864$31.95
Comparison of the fair and intrinsic value measurement methods
Pre-tax employee stock-based compensation expense recognized
in reported earnings totaled $0.6 billion in 2002, $0.8 billion in

2001 and $1.1 billion in 2000. Compensation expense for 2002
included the reversal of previously accrued expenses in the

amount of $120 million related to the forfeitable key employee

awards granted in 1999, 2000 and 2001. During 2002, it was

determined that it was no longer probable that the target stock

prices would be achieved within their respective performance

periods. The target stock prices for these forfeitable awards

ranged from $73.33 to $85.00. 
The following table presents net income and basic and diluted
earnings per share as reported and after the impact of applying

SFAS 123. The increase in compensation expense after applying

SFAS 123 in 2002 compared to 2001 reflects expense related to

a higher level of options granted in prior years that are not fully

vested. This increase is partially offset by a decline in the weighted-
average grant-date fair value of options granted in 2002. Thehigher expense from applying SFAS 123 in 2001 compared to

2000 results from the increase in the number of options granted

in 2001.Year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share data)
200220012000
Net income as reported$1,663$1,694$5,727
Add:Employee stock-based compensation 
expense included in reported net income,

net of related tax effects354479661
Deduct:Employee stock-based compensation 
expense determined under the fair value 

method for all awards,net of related 

tax effects(1,232)(1,101)(1,017)
Pro Forma net income
$785
$1,072$5,371
Earnings per share:BasicAs 
reported$0.81$0.83$2.99
Pro Forma
0.370.512.80
DilutedAs 
reported$0.80$0.80$2.86
Pro Forma
0.370.502.68
A portion of certain employeesÕ incentive compensation thatexceeds specified levels is awarded in restricted stock or RSU

awards (the Òrequired deferral planÓ) issued under the LTI Plans.

These restricted stock/RSU awards vest solely based on contin-

ued employment. During 2001 and 2000, 137,500 and
160,000, respectively, of such awards were granted. The

required deferral plan was discontinued in 2002.
Broad-based employee stock options
In January 2002, JPMorgan Chase granted 32.6 million options toall eligible full-time (375 options each) and part-time (188 options
each) employees under the Value Sharing Plan, a nonshareholder-
approved plan. This award is the third of three equal annual
grants to eligible active employees. The exercise price for each

annual grant is equal to JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock price

on the respective grant date. The options become exercisable

after five years, or earlier if JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock price

reaches and sustains a target price for a minimum period. Optionsgenerally expire ten years after the grant date. The 2002, 2001

and 2000 grants have not vested as the target stock prices have
not been achieved.The following table presents a summary of JPMorgan ChaseÕs
broad-based employee stock option plan activity during the past

three years:
99J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
The following table presents JPMorgan ChaseÕs weighted-average
grant-date fair values for the employee stock-based compensation
awards granted and the assumptions used to value stock options

under a Black-Scholes valuation model:Year ended December 31,200220012000
Weighted-average grant-date fair value
Stock options:Key employee$11.57$18.39$18.79
Broad-based employee9.4914.6017.66
Restricted stock and RSUs (all payable solely in stock)
36.2849.2142.88
Weighted-average annualized stock  
option valuation assumptionsRisk-free interest rate
4.61%5.08%6.65%
Expected dividend yield(a)3.722.512.25
Expected common stock price volatility393738
Assumed weighted-average expected 
life of stock options (in years)
Key employee6.86.86.8
Broad-based employee3.83.85.5
(a)Based primarily on historical data at the grant dates.
Restrictions on cash and 
intercompany funds transfers
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (ÒFRBÓ)
requires depository institutions to maintain cash reserves with a
Federal Reserve Bank. The average amount of reserve balances

deposited by JPMorgan ChaseÕs bank subsidiaries with various

Federal Reserve Banks was approximately $2.2 billion in 2002

and $1.1 billion in 2001.Restrictions imposed by federal law prohibit JPMorgan Chase
and certain other affiliates from borrowing from banking subsid-

iaries unless the loans are secured in specified amounts. Such

secured loans to JPMorgan Chase or to other affiliates generally

are limited to 10% of the banking subsidiaryÕs total capital, as

determined by the risk-based capital guidelines; the aggregate

amount of all such loans is limited to 20% of the banking sub-
sidiaryÕs total capital. JPMorgan Chase and its affiliates were well

within these limits throughout the year.
The principal sources of JPMorgan ChaseÕs income (on a parent
company-only basis) are dividends and interest from JPMorgan

Chase Bank and the other banking and nonbanking subsidiariesNote 25of JPMorgan Chase. In addition to dividend restrictions set forth

in statutes and regulations, the FRB, the Office of the

Comptroller of the Currency (ÒOCCÓ) and the Federal Deposit

Insurance Corporation (ÒFDICÓ) have authority under the
Financial Institutions Supervisory Act to prohibit or to limit the

payment of dividends by the banking organizations they super-
vise, including JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries that are

banks or bank holding companies, if, in the banking regulatorÕs

opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or
unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the 
banking organization.At January 1, 2003 and 2002, JPMorgan ChaseÕs bank sub-
sidiaries could pay, in the aggregate, $1.3 billion and $2.2 bil-

lion, respectively, in dividends to their respective bank holding

companies without prior approval of their relevant banking reg-

ulators. Dividend capacity in 2003 will be supplemented by the
banksÕ earnings during the year.
In compliance with rules and regulations established by U.S. and
non-U.S. regulators, as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, cash

in the amount of $2.1 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively, and

securities with a market value of $3.0 billion and $4.4 billion,
respectively, were segregated in special bank accounts for the
benefit of securities and futures brokerage customers.
CapitalThere are two categories of risk-based capital: core capital

(referred to as Tier 1 capital) and supplementary capital (referred

to as Tier 2 capital). Tier 1 capital includes common stockholdersÕ

equity, qualifying preferred stock and minority interest less

goodwill and other adjustments. Tier 2 capital consists of pre-

ferred stock not qualifying as Tier 1, long-term debt and other

instruments qualifying as Tier 2, the aggregate allowance for

credit losses up to a certain percentage of risk-weighted assets,

less investments in certain subsidiaries. Under the risk-based
capital guidelines of the FRB, JPMorgan Chase is required to

maintain minimum ratios of Tier 1 and total (Tier 1 plus Tier 2)

capital to risk-weighted assets. Failure to meet these minimum

requirements could result in actions taken by the FRB. Bank sub-
sidiaries also are subject to 
these capital requirements by their
respective primary regulators. 
Management believes that as ofDecember 31, 2002, JPMorgan Chase met all capital require-

ments to which it was subject and is not aware of any subse-

quent events that would alter this classification.Note 26Notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report100
The following table shows the components of the FirmÕs Tier 1
and total capital:December 31,(in millions)
20022001Tier 1 capitalCommon stockholdersÕ equity$40,065$40,530Nonredeemable preferred stock1,0091,009Minority interest5,520(a)5,084(b)Less:Goodwill and investments in certain subsidiaries
8,1228,231Nonqualifying intangible assets and other902679Tier 1 capital$37,570$37,713Tier 2 capitalLong-term debt and other instruments 
qualifying as Tier 2
$11,801$12,051Qualifying allowance for credit losses
5,4584,759Less:Investment in certain subsidiaries
334450Tier 2 capital$16,925$16,360Total qualifying capital
$54,495$54,073(a)Minority interest includes trust preferred stocks of certain business trust subsidiaries.
(b) Minority interest includes trust preferred stocks of certain business trust subsidiaries and the 
preferred stock of a Real Estate Investment Trust subsidiary of JPMorgan Chase.For a further 

discussion,see Notes 16 and 17.
The following table presents the risk-based capital ratios for JPMorgan Chase and its significant banking subsidiaries:
Risk-AdjustedTier 1TotalTier 1
Tier 1Totalweightedaveragecapital
(c)(e)capital(c)(e)leverage
(c)(f)December 31,2002 (in millions)capital
(b)(c)capital(c)assets(d)assetsratioratioratio
J.P.Morgan Chase & Co.
(a)$37,570$54,495$455,948$741,8628.24%11.95%5.06%
JPMorgan Chase Bank31,90843,348389,731607,2008.19%11.12%5.25%
Chase Manhattan Bank USA,N.A.
3,9935,90843,72331,9279.13%13.51%12.51%
Well capitalized ratios
(g)6.00%10.00%5.00%
(h)Minimum capital ratios
(g)4.00%8.00%3.00%
(a)Assets and capital amounts for JPMorgan ChaseÕs banking subsidiaries reflect intercompany transactions,whereas the respectiv
e amounts for JPMorgan Chase reflect the elimination of intercompanytransactions.
(b)In accordance with the FRB risk-based capital guidelines,minority interest for JPMorgan Chase includes preferred stock instr
uments issued by subsidiaries of JPMorgan Chase.For a further discussion,see
Notes 16 and 17.(c)The provisions of SFAS 115 do not apply to the calculations of the Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 leverage ratios.The risk-based 
capital guidelines permit the inclusion of 45% of the pre-tax unrealized gain oncertain equity securities in the calculation of Tier 2 capital.
(d)Includes off-balance sheet risk-weighted assets in the amounts of $170.4 billion,$148.4 billion and $12.9 billion,respective
ly,at December 31,2002.
(e)Tier 1 capital or total capital,as applicable,divided by risk-weighted assets.Risk-weighted assets include assets and off-ba
lance sheet positions,weighted by the type of instruments and the risk weight
of the counterparty,collateral or guarantor.
(f)Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average assets (net of allowance for loan losses,goodwill and certain intangible assets).

(g)As defined by the regulations issued by the FRB,the FDIC and the OCC.

(h)Represents requirements for bank subsidiaries pursuant to regulations issued under the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
 Improvement Act.There is no Tier 1 leverage component in the definition of
a well-capitalized bank holding company.
Commitments and contingenciesAt December 31, 2002, JPMorgan Chase and its subsidiaries were
obligated under a number of noncancelable operating leases for
premises and equipment used primarily for banking purposes.

Certain leases contain rent escalation clauses for real estate taxes

and other operating expenses and renewal option clauses calling

for increased rents. No lease agreement imposes any restrictions

on JPMorgan ChaseÕs ability to pay dividends, engage in debt 

or equity financing transactions, or enter into further lease Note 27agreements. Future minimum rental payments required under

operating leases with noncancelable lease terms that expire after

December 31, 2002 were as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
2003$737
2004720

2005651

2006616

2007545

After4,849
Total minimum payments required8,118
Less:Sublease rentals under noncancelable subleases274
Net minimum payment required$7,844
Total rental expense was as follows:
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200220012000
Gross rentals$1,012$804$716
Sublease rentals(134)(135)(79)
Net rental expense$878$669$637
At December 31, 2002, assets were pledged to secure public
deposits and for other purposes. The significant components of
the assets pledged were as follows:
At December 31,(in billions)
20022001Reverse repurchase/securities borrowing agreements
$199$134Securities7350Loans4031Other(a)11254Total assets pledged$424$269(a)Primarily composed of trading assets.
101J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities
SFAS 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards for
derivative instruments, including derivative instruments embedded
in other contracts, used for trading and hedging activities. All
derivatives, whether designated for hedging relationships or not,

are required to be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value.

The accounting for changes in value of a derivative depends on
whether the contract has been designated and qualifies for
hedge accounting. The majority of JPMorgan ChaseÕs derivatives

are entered into for trading purposes. The Firm also uses deriva-

tives as an end user to hedge market exposures, modify the

interest rate characteristics of related balance sheet instruments

or meet longer-term investment objectives. Both trading and

end-user derivatives are recorded at fair value in Trading assets

and Trading liabilities.
Derivatives designated as hedges for accounting purposes mustbe considered to be highly effective at reducing the risk associ-

ated with the exposure being hedged. Each derivative must be

designated as a hedge, with documentation of the risk manage-
ment objective and strategy for the hedge, including identifica-
tion of the hedging instrument, the hedged item and the risk
exposure, and how effectiveness is to be assessed prospectively

and retrospectively.
For qualifying fair value hedges, all changes in the fair value ofthe derivative and changes in the fair value of the hedged item
are recognized in earnings. If the hedge relationship is terminated,

then the fair value adjustment to the hedged item continues to
be reported as part of the basis of the item and is amortized to

earnings as a yield adjustment. For qualifying cash flow hedges,

the effective portion of the change in the fair value of the deriv-

ative is recorded in other comprehensive income and recognized

in the income statement when the hedged cash flows affect

earnings. The ineffective portions of cash flow hedges are

immediately recognized in earnings. If the hedge relationship 

is terminated, then the change in fair value of the derivative
recorded in other comprehensive income is recognized consis-
tent with the original hedge strategy, when the hedged cash

flows occur. For hedge relationships discontinued because the

forecasted transaction is not expected to occur according to 

the original strategy, any related derivative 
amounts recorded in
other comprehensive income are immediatelyr
ecognized in earn-
ings. For qualifying net investment hedges, changes in the fair
value of the derivative or the revaluation of the foreign currencyÐ

denominated debt instrument are recorded in the translation

adjustments account within other comprehensive income.
Note 28The Firm established a reserve of $900 million related to costs
anticipated to be incurred in connection with the various private

litigations and regulatory inquiries involving Enron Corp.

(ÒEnronÓ)and the other material legal actions, proceedings and

investigations in which the Firm is currently involved. This reserve

represents managementÕs best estimate, after consultation with 
counsel, of the current probable aggregate costs associated with

these matters. Of the $900 million, $600 million has been 
allocated to the various cases, proceedings and investigations

associated with Enron. The balance of $300 million has been

allocated to the various material litigation, proceedings and

investigations involving the FirmÕs debt and equity underwriting

activities and equity research practices, and includes $80 million

relating to the FirmÕs settlement in December 2002 with various
regulators relating to equity research practices. It is possible that
the reserve could be subject to revision in the future.
In addition to the various cases, proceedings and investigations
for which the reserve has been established, JPMorgan Chase and

its subsidiaries are named as defendants in a number of other

legal actions and governmental proceedings arising in connec-

tion with their respective businesses. Additional actions, investi-

gations or proceedings may be brought from time to time in the

future. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the out-

come of legal matters, particularly where the claimants seek very

large or indeterminate damages or where the cases present novel

legal theories or involve a large number of parties, the Firm
cannot state with confidence what the eventual outcome of the
pending matters (including the pending material matters as to
which the reserve has been established) will be, what the timing

of the ultimate resolution of these matters will be, or what the

eventual loss related to each pending matter will be. Subject to

the foregoing caveat, JPMorgan Chase anticipates, based upon

its current knowledge, after consultation with counsel and after

taking into account the establishment of the aforementioned

$900 million reserve, that the outcome of the legal actions, 

proceedings and investigations currently pending against it

should not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated

financial condition of the Firm, although the outcome of a par-
ticular proceeding or the imposition of a particular fine or penalty

may be material to JPMorgan ChaseÕs operating results for a 

particular period depending upon, among other factors, the size
of the loss or liability and the level of JPMorgan ChaseÕs income

for that period.
Notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report102
Off-balance sheet lending-related 
financial instruments and guaranteesJPMorgan Chase utilizes lending-related financial instruments
(e.g., commitments and guarantees) to meet the financing needs
of its customers. The contractual amount of these financial
instruments represents the maximum possible credit risk should

the counterparty draw down the commitment or the Firm fulfill
its obligation under the guarantee, and the counterparty subse-
quently fails to perform according to the terms of the contract.

Most of these commitments and guarantees expire without a

default occurring or without being drawn. As a result, the total

contractual amount of these instruments is not, in the FirmÕs

view, representative of the FirmÕs actual future credit exposure or

funding requirements. Further, certain commitments, primarily

related to consumer financings, are cancelable, upon notice, at
the option of the Firm. To provide for the risk of loss inherent in commercial-related con-
tracts, an allowance for credit losses is maintained. See Note 10

for a further discussion on the allowance for credit losses on

lending-related commitments.
The following table summarizes the contract amounts relating to
off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments and guar-

antees at December 31, 2002 and 2001:Off-balance sheet lending-related financial instruments
December 31,(in millions)
20022001Consumer-related
$151,138$131,854Commercial-related:Other unfunded commitments to extend credit(a)(b)$196,654$204,397Standby letters of credit and guarantees
(a)38,84841,163Other letters of credit(a)2,6182,151Total commercial-related$238,120$247,711CustomersÕ securities lent$101,503$111,167(a)Net of risk participations totaling $15.6 billion and $13.9 billion at December 31,2002 
and 2001.(b)Includes unused advised lines of credit totaling $22.0 billion at December 31,2002 and
$19.2 billion at December 31,2001.In regulatory filings with the FRB,unused advised lines

are not reportable.
Note 29JPMorgan ChaseÕs fair value hedges primarily include hedges of
fixed-rate long-term debt, loans, AFS securities and mortgage 

servicing rights. Interest rate swaps are the most common type of

derivative contract used to modify exposure to interest rate risk by

converting fixed-rate assets and liabilities to a floating rate. Interest

rate options and swaptions are also used in combination with inter-

est rate swaps to hedge the fair value of the FirmÕs mortgage serv-

icing rights. All amounts have been included in earnings consistent

with the classification of the hedged item, primarily Net interest

income, Fees and commissions and Other revenue. JPMorgan

Chase did not recognize any gains or losses during 2002 on firm

commitments that no longer qualify as fair value hedges.
JPMorgan Chase enters into derivative contracts to hedge expo-sure to variability in cash flows from floating-rate financial instru-

ments and forecasted transactions, primarily the rollover of

short-term assets and liabilities and anticipated securities transac-
tions. Interest rate swaps, futures, options and foreign exchange

forwards are the most common instruments used to reduce the

impact of interest rate and foreign exchange rate changes on

future earnings. All amounts have been included in earnings

consistent with the classification of the hedged item, primarily
Net interest income.
JPMorgan Chase primarily uses forward foreign exchange con-
tracts and foreign currencyÐdenominated debt instruments to

protect the value of its net investments in its non-U.S. sub-

sidiaries in foreign currencies. The portion of the hedging instru-

ments excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness

(forward points) is recorded in Net interest income.
The following table presents derivative instrument- and hedging-
related activities for the period indicated:Year ended December 31,(in millions)
20022001Fair value hedge ineffective net gains
(a)$441$386Cash flow hedge ineffective net losses(a)(1)(7)Cash flow hedging gains on forecastedtransactions that failed to occur
Ñ40(b)Expected reclassifications from OCI to earnings(c)317(177)(a)Includes ineffectiveness and the components of hedging instruments that have been excluded
from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.
(b)Represents recognized gains in net interest income for cash flow hedges of AFS security 
purchases that were discontinued because the forecasted transaction failed to occur.
(c)Represents the reclassification of net after-tax gains (losses) on derivative instruments from 
OCI to earnings that are expected to occur over the next 12 months.The maximum length of

time over which forecasted transactions are hedged is ten years,related to core lending and 

borrowing activities.
In 2001, the adoption of SFAS 133 resulted in an after-tax
reductionto net income of $25 million and an after-tax 
reduction to Other comprehensive income of $36 million. The
impact of reclassifying certain SFAS 115 securities from AFS to

trading was not material at the adoption date. Due to SFAS 133,

JPMorgan Chase changed certain hedging strategies and elected

not to designate some derivatives utilized to manage economic
exposure as accounting hedges. For example, to moderate its use
of derivatives, the mortgage business began using AFS securities
as economic hedges of mortgage servicing rights. Certain inter-
est rate derivatives are recorded in Trading revenue due to opera-

tional and cost constraints of applying hedge accounting.
Changes in the fair value of credit derivatives used to manage

the FirmÕs credit risk are recorded in Trading revenue because of

the difficulties in qualifying such contracts as hedges of loans

and commitments.Prior to the adoption of SFAS 133, derivatives used for hedging
purposes generally were not recorded on the Consolidated bal-

ance sheet and the unrealized gains and losses were deferred

on those contracts.103J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
In November 2002, the FASB issued FIN 45, which requires the
Firm to disclose information about obligations under certain
guarantee arrangements. FIN 45 defines a guarantee as a con-
tract that contingently requires the Firm to pay a guaranteed

party based on: (a) changes in an underlying asset, liability, or

equity security of the guaranteed party, or (b) a third partyÕs fail-

ure to perform under a specified agreement. The Firm considers

the following off-balance sheet lending arrangements to be

guarantees under FIN 45: certain asset purchase agreements;

standby letters of credit and financial guarantees; and securities

lending indemnifications.Unfunded commitments to extend credit
are agreements to
lend only when a customer has complied with predetermined

conditions, and they generally expire on fixed dates. The

allowance for credit losses on lending-related commitments

includes $213 million at December 31, 2002, related to unfund-

ed commitments to extend credit. The majority of the FirmÕs
unfunded commitments are not guarantees as defined in FIN

45,except for asset purchase agreements of $36 billion at
December 31, 2002. These agreements are primarily used as a

mechanism to provide liquidity to SPEs. Of the $36 billion of

asset purchase agreements at December 31, 2002, $33 billion

related to the FirmÕs multi-seller conduits and structured com-
mercial loan vehicles described in Note 11. 
Certain asset purchase agreements can be exercised at anytime
by the SPEÕs administrator, while others require a triggering

event to occur. Triggering events include, but are not limited to,

a need for liquidity, a market value decline of the assets or

downgrade in the rating of JPMorgan Chase Bank. These agree-

ments may cause the Firm to purchase an asset from the SPE at

an amount above the assetÕs fair value, in effect, providing a

guarantee of the initial value of the reference asset as of the

date of the agreement. In most instances, third-party credit

enhancements of the SPE mitigate the FirmÕs potential losses on

these agreements. The allowance for credit losses on lending-

related commitments related to these agreements was not
material at December 31, 2002. Standby letters of credit and financial guarantees
are con-
ditional lending commitments issued by JPMorgan Chase to
guarantee the performance of a customer to a third party under

borrowing arrangements such as commercial paper facilities,

bond financings and similar transactions. More than 90% of

these arrangements mature within three years. The Firm typically

has recourse to recover from the customer any amounts paid

under these guarantees; in addition, the Firm may hold cash or
other highly liquid collateral to support these guarantees.
Collateral held at December 31, 2002 relating to these arrange-

ments was $8 billion. The allowance for credit losses on lending-

related commitments included $150 million related to standby
letters of credit and financial guarantees.
JPMorgan Chase holds customersÕ securities under custodialarrangements. At times, these securities are loaned to third par-

ties, and the Firm issues securities lending indemnification
agreements to the customer that protect the customer against

the risk of loss if the third party fails to return the securities. 

To support these indemnification agreements, JPMorgan Chase
generally obtains from the third party cash or other highly liquid

collateral with a market value exceeding 100% of the value of
the loaned securities. At December 31, 2002, the Firm held
$110 billion in collateral in support of these agreements.
In connection with issuing securities to investors, the Firm mayenter into contractual arrangements with third parties that may

require the Firm to make a payment to them in the event of a
change in tax law or an adverse interpretation of tax law. In cer-

tain of these cases, the contract may also include a termination
clause which would allow the Firm to settle the contract at its
fair value, thus not requiring the Firm to make a payment under

the indemnification agreement. Even without the termination

clause, management does not expect such indemnification
agreements to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated

financial condition of JPMorgan Chase. The Firm may also enter
into indemnification clauses when it sells a business or assets to
a third party pursuant to which it indemnifies that third party for

losses they may incur due to actions taken by the Firm prior to
the sale. It is difficult to estimate the FirmÕs maximum exposure

under these indemnification arrangements since this would
require an assessment of future changes in tax laws and future
claims that may be made against the Firm that have not yet
occurred. However, based on historical experience, management

expects the risk of loss to be remote.
In addition to the contracts described above, there are certain
derivative contracts to which the Firm is a counterparty that
meet the characteristics of a guarantee under FIN 45. These
derivatives are recorded on the Consolidated balance sheet at

fair value. These contracts include written put options that
require the Firm to purchase assets from the option holder at 
a specified price by a specified date in the future, as well as

derivatives that effectively guarantee the return on a counter-

partyÕs reference portfolio of assets. The total notional value 

of the derivatives that the Firm deems to be guarantees was
$47 billion at December 31, 2002. The Firm reduces its expo-

sures to these contracts by entering into offsetting transactions

or by entering into contracts that hedge the market risk related

to these contracts. The fair value related to these contracts was

a derivative receivable of $141 million and a derivative payable

of $814 million at December 31, 2002. Finally, certain written put options and credit derivatives permit
cash settlement and do not require the option holder or the buyer

of credit protection to own the reference asset. The Firm does not

consider these contracts to be guarantees as described in FIN 45.Notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report104
Fair value of financial instrumentsFair value is defined as the value at which positions could beclosed out or sold in a transaction with a willing and knowl-
edgeable counterparty over a period of time consistent with
JPMorgan ChaseÕs trading or investment strategy.
The accounting for an asset or liability may differ based on the
type of instrument and/or its use in a trading or investing strategy.

Generally, the measurement framework recorded in financial

statements is one of the following: ¥Recorded at fair value on the Consolidated balance sheet
with changes in fair value recorded each period in the

Consolidated statement of income;¥Recorded at fair value on the Consolidated balance sheet
with changes in fair value recorded each period in a separate

component of stockholdersÕ equity and as part of Other
comprehensive income; 
Note 31Credit risk concentrations
Concentrations of credit risk arise when a number of customers
are engaged in similar business activities, or activities in the

same geographic region, or have similar economic features that

would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be
similarly affected by changes in economic conditions.
JPMorgan Chase regularly monitors various segments of its credit
risk portfolio to assess potential concentration risks and to obtain
collateral when deemed necessary. In the FirmÕs commercial portfo-

lio, risk concentrations are primarily evaluated by industry, and also

by geographic region. In the consumer portfolio, concentrations

are primarily evaluated by product, and by U.S. geographic region.
Note 30The table below presents both on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet commercial- and consumer-related credit exposure as of

December 31, 2002 and 2001:2002 2001CreditOn-balanceOff-balance
CreditOn-balanceOff-balance
December 31,(in billions)
exposuresheet
(a)sheet(b)exposuresheet
(a)sheet(b)Commercial-related:Commercial banking$44.5$36.5$8.0
$36.0$26.9$9.1
Finance companies24.21.722.5
23.54.019.5
All other commercial
344.2136.6207.6
364.2145.1219.1
Total commercial-related$412.9$174.8$238.1
$423.7$176.0$247.7
Consumer-related:
Credit cards(c)$143.1$19.7$123.4
$124.2$19.4$104.8
Residential mortgages84.064.020.0
77.659.917.7
Auto financings 35.433.61.8
27.625.71.9
All other consumer13.47.55.9
15.17.67.5
Total consumer-related
$275.9$124.8$151.1
$244.5$112.6$131.9
Total exposure$688.8$299.6$389.2
$668.2$288.6$379.6
(a)Represents loans,and derivative and other receivables.
(b)Represents lending-related financial instruments.

(c)Excludes securitized credit card receivables.
For further information regarding on-balance sheet credit con-
centrations by major product and geography, see Note 9 on

page 80. For information regarding concentrations of off-bal-

ance sheet lending-related financial instruments by major prod-

uct, see Note 29 on page 102. More information about concen-

trations can be found on the following tables in the MD&A:Commercial exposurePage 47
Commercial selected industry concentrationsPage 48

Selected country exposurePage 53

Residential mortgage loans by geographic regionPage 55

Managed credit card loans by geographic regionPage 55
Auto financings by geographic regionPage 55
¥Recorded at cost (less other-than-temporary impairments)
with changes in fair value not recorded in the financial state-

ments but disclosed in the notes thereto; or
¥Recorded at the lower of cost or fair value.
Fair value is based on quoted market prices, where available. 
If listed prices or quotes are not available, fair value is based on

internally developed models that primarily use market-based or

independent information as inputs. Primary market prices are

used to determine the fair value of certain of the FirmÕs financial

instruments, such as loans and lending-related commitments, as

they provide an estimate of prices at which such financial instru-

ments could currently be originated.
Valuation adjustments are made, at times, based on defined
methodologies that are applied consistently over time and that

are intended to ensure that positions are carried at the best 

estimate of fair value. Valuation adjustments include amounts to

reflect counterparty credit quality, liquidity and concentration
concerns, and ongoing servicing costs. JPMorgan ChaseÕs valua-
105J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
tion process is continually subject to review, which includes val-
uation model and methodology reviews and price testing with

independent sources where appropriate. 
These methods may produce a fair value calculation that may
not be indicative of net realizable value or reflective of future fair

values. Furthermore, the use of different methodologies or sec-

ondary market prices to determine the fair value of certain finan-
cial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair value

at the reporting date; for example, the cost of credit derivatives

can be used to estimate the fair value of commercial loans and

lending-related commitments, rather than discounting them

using primary market rates. Following such an approach, the fair

value of the FirmÕs commercial loans would approximate carrying

value (i.e., commercial loans net of the allowance for loan losses)

at December 31, 2002. Following the same approach, the maxi-

mum incremental depreciation in fair value of the FirmÕs com-

mercial lending-related commitments would be approximately 40

basis points of the total notional amount of these commitments
at December 31, 2002.Certain financial instruments and all nonfinancial instruments are
excluded from the scope of SFAS 107. Accordingly, the fair value dis-

closures required by SFAS 107 provide only a partial estimate of the

fair value of JPMorgan Chase. For example, JPMorgan Chase has
developed long-term relationships with its customers through its

deposit base and its credit card accounts, commonly referred to as

core deposit intangibles and credit card relationships. In the opinion

of management, these items in the aggregate add significant value

to JPMorgan Chase, but their fair value is not disclosed in this Note.The following captions describe the methodologies and assump-tions used, by financial instrument, to determine fair value.Financial assetsAssets for which fair value approximates carrying value
Fair values of certain financial assets carried at cost, includingcash and due from banks, deposits with banks, securities bor-

rowed, short-term receivables and accrued interest receivable are
considered to approximate their respective carrying values due to

their short-term nature and generally negligible credit risk.
Assets where fair value differs from cost
JPMorgan ChaseÕs debt, equity and derivative trading instruments

are carried at their estimated fair value. Quoted market prices,

when available, are used to determine the fair value of trading

instruments. If quoted market prices are not available, then fair

values are estimated by using pricing models, quoted prices of

instruments with similar characteristics or discounted cash flows.Federal funds sold and securities purchased under
resale agreements
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agree-
ments are typically short-term in nature, and as such, for a 

significant majority of the FirmÕs transactions, cost approximates

carrying value. This balance sheet item also includes structured
resale agreements and similar products with long-dated maturities.
To estimate the fair value of these instruments, the cash flowsare discounted using the appropriate market rates for the appli-

cable maturity. 
SecuritiesFair values of actively-traded securities are determined by the

secondary market, while the fair values for nonactively traded
securities are based on independent broker quotations.
DerivativesFair value for derivatives is determined based on the following:¥Position valuation principally based on liquid market pricingas evidenced by exchange traded prices, broker-dealer 

quotations or related input factors which assume all counter-

parties have the same credit rating;
¥Adjustments to the resulting portfolio valuation to reflect the
credit quality of individual counterparties that are principally

based on market prices for credit risk; and
¥Other pricing adjustments to take into consideration liquidity,
transaction hedging costs and other factors. LoansFair value for loans is determined using methodologies suitable
for each type of loan: ¥Fair value for the commercial loan portfolio is based on the
assessment of the two main risk components of the portfolio:
credit and interest. The estimated cash flows are discounted

using a primary market rate appropriate for each maturity

that incorporates the effects of interest rate changes and

then are adjusted to reflect the inherent credit risk.
¥Fair values for consumer installment loans (including autofinancings) and residential mortgages for which market rates

for comparable loans are readily available are based on dis-

counted cash flows, adjusted for prepayments. The discount

rates used for consumer installment loans are current rates

offered by commercial banks. For residential mortgages, 

secondary market yields for comparable mortgage-backed
securities, adjusted for risk, are used.
¥Fair value for credit card receivables is based on discounted
expected cash flows. The discount rates used for credit card

receivables incorporate only the effects of interest rate changes
since the estimated cash flows are adjusted for credit risk.
¥The fair value of loans in the held-for-sale and trading portfo-
liosis generally based on 
observable market prices and pricesof similar instruments, including bonds, credit derivatives and

loans with similar characteristics. Otherwise, if market prices
are not available, the fair value is based on the estimated

cash flows adjusted for credit risk that is discounted using a

rate appropriate for each maturity that incorporates the

effects of interest rate changes. 
Notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report106
20022001CarryingEstimatedAppreciation/
CarryingEstimatedAppreciation/
December 31,(in billions)
valuefair value(depreciation)
valuefair value(depreciation)
Financial assetsAssets for which fair value approximates carrying value
$76.4$76.4$Ñ
$86.7$86.7$Ñ
Fed funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements65.866.00.2
63.763.7Ñ
Trading assets248.3248.3Ñ
189.4189.4Ñ
Securities available-for-sale
84.084.0Ñ
59.359.3Ñ
Securities held-to-maturity0.40.4Ñ
0.50.5Ñ
Loans-commercial,net of allowance for loan losses
88.689.10.5
102.4102.80.4
Loans-consumer,net of allowance for loan losses
122.4124.72.3
110.5112.21.7
Other assets53.353.50.2
65.565.80.3
Total financial assets$739.2$742.4$3.2
$678.0$680.4$2.4
Financial liabilitiesLiabilities for which fair value approximates carrying value
$145.1$145.1$Ñ
$153.6$153.6$Ñ
Interest-bearing deposits222.7223.1(0.4)
216.7216.8(0.1)
Fed funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements169.5169.5Ñ
128.4128.4Ñ
Trading liabilities133.1133.1Ñ
109.1109.1Ñ
Long-term debt-related instruments45.245.5(0.3)
43.644.4(0.8)
Total financial liabilities$715.6$716.3$(0.7)
$651.4$652.3$(0.9)
Net appreciation $2.5$1.5Other assets This caption includes private equity investments and MSRs. For a discussion of the fair value methodology of private equityinvestments, see Note 13 on page 88.Fair value for mortgage servicing rights is estimated using a dis-counted future cash flow model that considers portfolio character-

istics and assumptions regarding prepayment speeds, delinquency

rates, ancillary revenues and other economic factors. The Firm

reviews such assumptions against market comparables, if available.Financial liabilitiesLiabilities for which fair value approximates 
carrying valueSFAS 107 requires that the fair value disclosed for deposit liabili-
ties with no stated maturity (i.e., demand, savings and certain
money market deposits) be equal to their carrying value. SFAS

107 does not allow for the recognition of the inherent funding

value of these instruments.Fair value of commercial paper, other borrowed funds, accounts
payable and accrued liabilities is considered to approximate their

respective carrying values due to their short-term nature.
Interest-bearing deposits
Fair values of interest-bearing deposits are estimated by dis-
counting cash flows based on contractual maturities of funds
having similar interest rates and similar maturities.
Federal funds purchased and securities sold under
repurchase agreements
Federal funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase
agreements are typically short-term in nature, and as such, for a 

significant majority of the FirmÕs transactions, cost approximates

carrying value. This balance sheet item also includes structured
repurchase agreements and similar products with long-dated
maturities. To estimate the fair value of these instruments, the

cash flows are discounted using the appropriate market rates for

the applicable maturity. 
Long-term debt-related instruments
Fair value for long-term debt, including the guaranteed pre-

ferred beneficial interests in the FirmÕs junior subordinated

deferrable interest debentures, is based on current market rates

and is adjusted for JPMorgan ChaseÕs credit quality.
Lending-related commitments
The Firm estimates the fair value of its commitments to extendcredit based on the primary market prices to originate new com-

mitments at December 31, 2002. It is the change in current pri-

mary market prices relative to the original prices that provides the

estimate of the fair value of these commitments. On this basis, the
fair value of the FirmÕs lending-related commitments approximated

the allowance for lending-related commitments of $363 million at

December 31, 2002.The following table presents the carrying value and estimated
fair value of financial assets and liabilities valued under SFAS

107. Accordingly, certain amounts which are not considered

financial instruments are excluded from the table. 
107J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Income (loss)Net
For the year ended December 31,(in millions)Revenue
(a)Expense(b)before income taxesincome (loss)
2002Europe/Middle East and Africa
$5,120$4,882$238$157
Asia and Pacific
1,9001,8208053
Latin America and the Caribbean
68555712885
Other423485
Total international7,7477,293454300
Total U.S.
21,86719,802
(c)2,0651,363
Total $29,614$27,095$2,519$1,663
2001Europe/Middle East and Africa$6,725$5,128$1,597$1,054

Asia and Pacific1,9342,229(295)(195)

Latin America and the Caribbean686703(17)(11)

Other433853
Total international9,3888,0981,290851
Total U.S.19,95618,6801,276843
Total $29,344$26,778$2,566$1,694
2000Europe/Middle East and Africa$7,466$4,259$3,207$1,980

Asia and Pacific3,1941,9061,288837

Latin America and the Caribbean995737258153

Other4148(7)(7)
Total international11,6966,9504,7462,963
Total U.S.21,49017,5033,9872,764
Total $33,186$24,453$8,733$5,727
(a)Revenue is composed of net interest income and noninterest revenue.
(b)Expense is composed of noninterest expense and provision for credit losses.The amounts include an allocation of merger and r
estructuring costs.
(c)Includes the $1.3 billion (pre-tax) charge related to the settlement of the Enron Surety litigation and the establishment of
 a litigation reserve for certain material litigation,proceedings and investigations.
The following table presents income statement information of
JPMorgan Chase by major geographic areas. JPMorgan Chase

defines international activities as business transactions that

involve customers residing outside the U.S., and the information

presented below is based primarily on the domicile of the cus-

tomer. However, many of the FirmÕs U.S. operations serve inter-

national businesses.International operations
Note 32As the FirmÕs operations are highly integrated, estimates and

subjective assumptions have been made to apportion revenue

and expense between U.S. and international operations. The

estimates and assumptions used to apportion revenue and

expense are consistent with the allocations used for JPMorgan

ChaseÕs segment reporting as set forth in Note 33. 
JPMorgan ChaseÕs long-lived assets for the periods presented are
not considered by management to be significant in relation to

total assets. The majority of the FirmÕs long-lived assets are

located in the United States.Segment results and reconciliation
(table continued on next page)Treasury &Investment Management 
Year ended December 31,
Investment BankSecurities Services& Private Banking
(in millions,except ratios)
200220012000
200220012000
200220012000
Operatingnetinterestincome
$2,613$2,943$2,450
$1,390$1,472$1,538
$483$587$707
Operating noninterestrevenue
9,91111,84813,506
2,5152,3112,172
2,2442,4942,600
Equity-related income(b)(2)(8)15
ÑÑ22
2336105
Intersegment revenue(c)(123)(112)(279)
141195198
118109131
Total operating revenue
12,39914,67115,692
4,0463,9783,930
2,8683,2263,543
Total operating expense
7,9788,7829,819
3,0013,0062,875
2,3362,5702,588
Operating margin
4,4215,8895,873
1,0459721,055
532656955
Credit costs2,3921,148245
174853525
Operating earnings (loss) before taxes
2,0294,7415,628
1,0449651,051
447621930
Income taxes (benefit)6641,8232,106
367333380
63142317
Operating earnings (loss)
$1,365$2,918$3,522
$677$632$671
$384$479$613
Merger and restructuring costs and special items(d)Pre-SFAS142 goodwill amortization
(d)Net income (loss)$1,365$2,918$3,522
$677$632$671
$384$479$613
Average common equity
$18,323$18,964$18,335
$2,998$2,958$2,883
$6,115$6,275$4,447
Average managed assets
(e)$494,958$510,282$469,791
$18,018$18,794$16,548
$35,729$36,896$33,674
Shareholder value added
$(853)$615$1,280
$313$272$319
$(357)$(284)$70
Return on common equity7%15%19%
23%21%23%
6%8%14%
Overhead ratio
64%60%63%
74%76%73%
81%80%73%
(a)Corporate/reconciling items includes Support Units,Corporate and the net effect of management accounting policies.
(b)Equity-related income includes equity income of investees accounted for by the equity method.

(c)Intersegment revenue includes intercompany revenue and revenue-sharing agreements,net of intersegment expenses.Transactions 
between business segments are primarily conducted at 
fair value.
(d)Represents the after-tax amounts.

(e)Includes credit card receivables that have been securitized.The impact of securitizations on total average assets was $26.5 
billion in 2002,$18.0 billion in 2001 and $18.8 billion in 2000.
NA-Not applicable.

NM-Not meaningful.
Notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report108
profitability. For a definition of these measurements, see the
Glossary of terms on page 114.Operating revenues and expenses directly associated with each
segment are included in determining the segmentÕs operating

earnings. Guidelines exist for allocating to the segments expenses

that are not directly incurred by them, such as corporate over-

headand taxes. In addition, 
management has developed a risk-adjusted capital methodology that quantifies different types of

risk Ð credit, market, operational and private equity Ð within the
Segment informationJPMorgan Chase is organized into five major businesses. 
These businesses are segmented based on the products and

services provided, or the type of customer served, and reflect

the manner in which financial information is evaluated by 
management. JPMorgan Chase uses shareholder value added (ÒSVAÓ) and
operating earnings as its principal measures of segment 
Note 33(table continued from previous page)
Corporate/ 
JPMorgan PartnersChase 
Financial Servicesreconciling items(a)Total200220012000
200220012000
200220012000
200220012000
$(321)$(350)$(343)
$8,395$6,933$6,202
$(741)$(739)$(536)
$11,819$10,846$10,018
(617)(1,112)1,111
5,1233,9713,798
(16)(1)(300)
19,16019,51122,887
(2)(1)(1)
584737
(3)(39)(38)
7435140
(14)(7)19
(35)Ñ22
(87)(185)(91)
ÑÑÑ(954)(1,470)786
13,54110,95110,059
(847)(964)(965)
31,05330,39233,045
298293395
6,4215,6175,298
122220283
20,15620,48821,258
(1,252)(1,763)391
7,1205,3344,761
(969)(1,184)(1,248)
10,8979,90411,787
ÑÑÑ3,1592,8732,094
1331672
5,7704,2302,370
(1,252)(1,763)391
3,9612,4612,667
(1,102)(1,351)(1,250)
5,1275,6749,417
(463)(647)129
1,4719231,029
(359)(702)(720)
1,7431,8723,241
$(789)$(1,116)$262
$2,490$1,538$1,638
$(743)$(649)$(530)
$3,384$3,802$6,176
(1,721)(1,715)(200)
(1,721)(1,715)(200)
NA(393)(249)
NA(393)(249)
$(789)$(1,116)$262
$2,490$1,538$1,638
$(2,464)$(2,757)$(979)
$1,663$1,694$5,727
$5,454$6,475$7,590
$10,293$9,118$8,668
$(1,815)$(2,266)$(5,747)
$41,368$41,524$36,176
$10,210$12,143$13,654
$179,404$162,753$146,962
$21,557$13,080$14,951 
$759,876$753,948$695,580
$(1,614)$(2,097)$(894)
$1,242$430$578
$(362)$(183)$386
$(1,631)$(1,247)$1,739
NMNM3%
24%17%19%
NMNMNM
8%9%17%
NMNM50%
47%51%53%
NMNMNM
65%67%64%
109J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
various businesses and assigns capital accordingly. Each business
segment is responsible for its credit costs, including actual net

charge-offs and changes in the specific and expected compo-

nents of the allowance for credit losses. The residual component

of the allowance for credit losses, available for losses in any

business segment, is maintained at the corporate level.A summary of the business segment results is shown in the 
following table. The Corporate/reconciling items column reflects

revenues and expenses excluded from the determination of the
segmentsÕ operating earnings. This column includes the account-
ing effects remaining at the corporate level after the application of

management accounting policies, including income tax expenses
(the difference between the amounts allocated to business units

and JPMorgan ChaseÕs consolidated income tax expense).
For a further discussion concerning JPMorgan ChaseÕs business
segments, see Segment results in the MD&A on pages 24 and

25. Additionally, financial information relating to JPMorgan

ChaseÕs operations by geographic area is provided in Note 32. 
The tables below present reconciliations of the combined segment information included in the preceding table to JPMorgan ChaseÕ
sreported revenue and net income as included in the Consolidated statement of income on page 71.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200220012000
SegmentsÕ operating earnings$4,127
$4,451$6,706
Corporate/reconciling items
(743)(649)(530)
Consolidated operating earnings3,384
3,8026,176
Merger and restructuring costsand special items(a)(1,721)(1,715)(200)
Pre-SFAS 142 goodwill amortization
(a)NA(393)(249)
Consolidated net income$1,663
$1,694$5,727
(a)Represents the after-tax amounts.
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200220012000
SegmentsÕ operating revenue$31,900
$31,356$34,010
Corporate/reconciling items
(847)(964)(965)
Consolidated operating revenue31,053
30,39233,045
Impact of securitizations(1,439)(1,048)(990)
Special itemsÑÑ1,131Consolidated revenue $29,614
$29,344$33,186
Notes to consolidated financial statementsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report110
Parent company Ð balance sheet
December 31,(in millions)
20022001AssetsCash with banks
$108$412Deposits with banking subsidiaries9,9946,239Securities purchased under resale agreements384344Trading assets4,0871,106Securities-AFS1,0811,692Advances to subsidiaries:
Bank and bank holding company9,3436,953Nonbank20,98429,546Investment (at equity) in subsidiaries:Bank and bank holding company40,70939,588Nonbank10,8268,401Other assets9,8929,274Total assets$107,408$103,555Liabilities and stockholdersÕ equity
Other borrowed funds,primarily commercial paper
$19,330$20,703Other liabilities4,9303,805Long-term debt(b)40,84237,948Total liabilities65,10262,456StockholdersÕ equity42,30641,099Total liabilities and stockholdersÕ equity$107,408$103,555Parent company
Parent company Ð statement of income
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200220012000
IncomeDividends from subsidiaries(a)$3,501$10,554$5,404
Interest from subsidiaries1,1742,0903,038
All other income1,079563664
Total income5,75413,2079,106
ExpenseInterest expense1,9162,9273,859
Noninterest expense1,077526922
Total expense2,9933,4534,781
Income before income tax benefit andundistributed net income of subsidiaries2,7619,7544,325
Income tax benefit432394602
Equity in undistributed net income (loss) of subsidiaries(1,530)(8,458)800
Income before effect of accounting change1,6631,6905,727
Net effect of change in accounting principleÑ4ÑNet income$1,663$1,694$5,727
Note 34Parent company Ð statement of cash flows
Year ended December 31,(in millions)
200220012000
Operating activities
Net income$1,663$1,694$5,727
Less:Net income of subsidiaries
1,9712,0966,204
Parent company net loss(308)(402)(477)
Add cash dividends from subsidiaries:
(a)Bank and bank holding company1,8982,6504,952
Nonbank4227,904452
Other,net
(912)(926)(1,712)
Net cash provided by operating activities
1,1009,2263,215
Investing activitiesNet change in:Deposits with banking subsidiaries(3,755)2,557(1,907)
Advances to subsidiaries
6,1723,931(347)
Investment (at equity) in subsidiaries(2,284)(5,303)(3,305)
Securities purchased under resale agreements,primarily with nonbank subsidiaries
(40)953372
Securities668(1,605)1,186
Other,net
(26)Ñ(295)Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities735533(4,296)
Financing activities Net change in other borrowed funds(1,373)(4,313)3,195
Proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt13,5647,77311,127
Repayments of long-term debt(12,271)(10,184)(10,208)
Proceeds from the issuance of stock and stock-related awards
7251,4292,278
Redemption of preferred stock Ñ(511)(100)
Treasury stock purchasedÑ(871)(2,950)
Cash dividends paid(2,784)(2,697)(2,282)
Net cash (used in)provided by financing activities
(2,139)(9,374)1,060
Net increase (decrease) in cash with banks(304)385(21)
Cash with banks at the beginning of the year4122748
Cash with banks at the end of the year,primarily with bank subsidiaries
$108$412$27
Cash interest paid$1,829$2,950$3,927
Taxes paid (refund received)$592$(250)$1,694
(a)Dividends in 2002 include a stock dividend of $1.2 billion from the mortgage business,which was contributed to JPMorgan Chas
e Bank.Cash dividends in 2001 include funds from Flemings and Beacon.
(b)Includes debt with subsidiaries of $5.7 billion and $4.7 billion at December 31,2002 and 2001,respectively.At December 31,20
02,all debt that contractually matures in 2003 through 2007 totaled
$6.15 billion,$5.75 billion,$3.00 billion,$2.32 billion and $6.33 billion,respectively.
111J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Supplementary informationSelected quarterly financial data(unaudited)As of or for the period ended20022001(in millions,except per share and ratio data) 
4th3rd2nd1st
4th3rd2nd1st
REPORTED BASIS
Revenue$7,495$6,947$7,574$7,598
$6,652$7,421$6,949$8,322
Noninterest expense (excluding merger and restructuring costs)6,768(a)4,7184,9655,103
4,9115,1315,3615,670
Merger and restructuring costs393333229255
841876478 328
Provision for credit losses9211,836821753
1,468745525444
Income tax expense (benefit)
(200)20531505
(236)220207656
Net effect of change in accounting principleÑÑÑÑ
ÑÑÑ(25)Net income (loss)$(387)$40$1,028$982
$(332)$449$378$1,199
Per Common Share:

Net income (loss)per share:
Basic$(0.20)$0.01$0.51$0.49
$(0.18)$0.22$0.18$0.60
Diluted(0.20)0.010.500.48
(0.18)0.220.180.58
Cash dividends0.340.340.340.34
0.340.340.340.34
Book value at period-end
20.6621.2620.9320.16
20.3221.1520.8121.17
Performance Ratios:
Return on average assets
NM0.02%0.56%0.55%
NM0.24%0.21%0.67%
Return on average common equity
NM0.259.969.72
NM4.173.4511.58
Capital Ratios:
Tier 1 capital ratio
8.24%8.69%8.82%8.61%
8.29%8.18%8.66%8.72%
Total capital ratio
11.9512.4312.6612.48
11.8811.5812.2012.31
Tier 1 leverage ratio
5.065.405.385.44
5.175.295.375.44
Selected Balance Sheet Items:
Net loans$211,014$206,215$207,080$209,541
$212,920$219,411$216,245$213,116
Total assets758,800741,759740,546712,508
693,575799,300712,702713,624
Deposits304,753292,171293,829282,037
293,650281,604276,804272,572
Long-term debt(b)45,19044,55247,80242,761
43,62246,75445,35647,048
Common stockholdersÕ equity41,29742,42841,72740,122
40,09041,72641,40142,004
Total stockholdersÕ equity42,30643,43742,73641,131
41,09942,73542,42643,366
Share price
(c)High$26.14$33.68$38.75$39.68
$40.95$46.01$50.60$59.19
Low15.2617.8630.1526.70
31.3029.0439.2137.58
Close24.0018.99 33.9235.65
36.3534.1544.6044.90
OPERATING BASIS
(d)Revenue$7,925$7,301$7,908$7,919
$6,916$7,691$7,222$8,563
Expense5,4684,6204,9655,103
4,7604,9855,2145,529
Operating margin
2,4572,6812,9432,816
2,1562,7062,0083,034
Credit costs1,3512,1901,1551,074
1,7321,015798685
Earnings$730$325$1,179$1,150
$356$1,133$786$1,527
Operating Performance:
Shareholder value added
$(551)$(964)$(57)$(59)
$(915)$(136)$(481)$285
Return on average common equity
7%3%11%11%
3%11%7%15%
Overhead ratio
69636364
69657265
Common dividend payout ratio
962225960
199618945
Selected Balance Sheet Items:Managed net loans$241,736$236,058$234,579$232,766
$234,344$238,135$233,998$229,741
Total managed assets789,522771,602768,045735,733
714,999818,024730,455730,249
(a)Includes a $1.3 billion charge in connection with the settlement of the Enron-related surety litigation and the establishmen
t of a reserve related to certain material litigations,proceedings and investigations.
(b)Includes Guaranteed preferred beneficial interests in the FirmÕs junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures.

(c)JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange,the London Stock Exchange Limited and the 
Tokyo Stock Exchange.The high,low and closing prices of JPMorgan
ChaseÕs common stock are from the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Tape.
(d)Includes credit card receivables that had been securitized.Amounts shown exclude merger and restructuring costs,special item
s and the amortization of goodwill.For a description of special items,see
Glossary of terms on page 114.NM-Not meaningful.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report112
Five-year summary of financial highlightsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
(unaudited)As of or for the year ended December 31,(in millions,except per share and ratio data)
20022001200019991998
REPORTED BASIS
Revenue $29,614$29,344$33,186$31,146$25,873
Noninterest expense (excluding merger and restructuring costs)21,554(a)21,07321,64218,18816,246
Merger and restructuring costs1,2102,5231,43123887
Provision for credit losses4,3313,1821,3801,4461,393
Income tax expense8568473,0063,9882,602
Net effect of change in accounting principleÑ(25)ÑÑÑ
Net income$1,663$1,694$5,727$7,501$4,745
Per Common Share:

Net income per shareBasic$0.81$0.83$2.99$3.87$2.37
Diluted0.800.802.863.692.27
Cash dividends 1.361.361.281.080.96
Book value at December 31
20.6620.3221.1718.0717.39
Performance Ratios:
Return on average assets
0.23%0.23%0.85%1.19%0.72%
Return on average common equity
3.903.9215.5622.4614.35
Capital Ratios:
Tier 1 capital ratio
8.24%8.29%8.46%8.54%8.23%
Total capital ratio
11.9511.8812.0312.3411.94
Tier 1 leverage ratio
5.065.175.435.855.34
Selected Balance Sheet Items:
Net loans$211,014$212,920$212,385$199,270$194,227
Total assets758,800693,575715,348667,003626,942
Deposits304,753293,650279,365287,064267,465
Long-term debt(b)45,19043,62247,23845,54047,132
Common stockholdersÕ equity41,29740,09040,81833,43433,377
Total stockholdersÕ equity42,30641,09942,33835,05635,099
Share price
(c)High$39.68$59.19$67.17$60.75$51.71
Low15.2629.0432.3843.8823.71
Close24.0036.3545.4451.7947.33
OPERATING BASIS
(d)Revenue $31,053$30,392$33,045$31,911$26,643
Expense 20,15620,48821,25817,90316,060
Operating margin
10,8979,90411,78714,00810,583
Credit costs5,7704,2302,3702,4392,541
Earnings $3,384$3,802$6,176$7,554$5,177
Operating Performance:
Shareholder value added
$(1,631)$(1,247)$1,739$3,496$1,187
Return on average common equity
8%9%17%23%16%
Overhead ratio
6567645660
Common dividend payout ratio
8373392838
Selected Balance Sheet Items:Managed net loans$241,736$234,344$230,256$217,209$212,260
Total managed assets789,522714,999733,219684,942644,975
(a)Includes a $1.3 billion charge in connection with the settlement of the Enron-related surety litigation and the establishmen
t of a reserve related to certain material litigations,proceedings and investigations.
(b) Includes Guaranteed preferred beneficial interests in the FirmÕs junior subordinated deferrable interest debentures.

(c)JPMorgan ChaseÕs common stock is listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange,the London Stock Exchange Limited and the 
Tokyo Stock Exchange.The high,low and closing prices of JPMorgan
ChaseÕs common stock are from the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transaction Tape.Share-related data have been restated to r
eflect a three-for-two stock split effective as of the close of business
on June 9,2000.
(d)Includes credit card receivables that had been securitized.Amounts shown exclude merger and restructuring costs,special item
s and the amortization of goodwill.For a reconciliation from reported results
to operating basis,see page 22.For a description of special items,see Glossary of terms on page 114.
APB:Accounting Principles Board opinion.
APB 25: ÒAccounting for Stock Issued to Employees.ÓAPB 30: ÒReporting the Results of Operations Ð Reporting theEffects of Disposal of a Segment of a Business, and

Extraordinary, Unusual and Infrequently Occurring Events and

Transactions.ÓAsset capital tax: The capital that is allocated to each businessunit based on their average asset levels and certain off-balance

sheet credit-related exposures to reflect the need for the Firm to

maintain minimum leverage ratios to meet bank regulatory defi-

nitions of Òwell capitalized.Ó Basis point value (ÒBPVÓ): This measurement quantifies the
change in the market value of assets and liabilities (that are not

part of trading activities) that would result from a one-basis

point change in interest rates or one basis point widening of

interest rate spreads. BPV shows whether an increase of 1/100

of 1% (or one basis point) in a market rate will yield a profit or

loss, and of what magnitude. Credit derivatives
are contractual agreements that provide
protection against a credit event of one or more referenced

credits. The nature of a credit event is established by the protec-

tion buyer and protection seller at the inception of a transac-

tion, and such events include bankruptcy, insolvency and failure

to meet payment obligations when due. The buyer of the credit

derivative pays a periodic fee in return for a payment by the

protection seller upon the occurrence, if any, of a credit event. 
Credit risk: 
The risk of loss due to borrower or counterparty
default. Criticized:An indication of credit quality of a portfolio, based
on JPMorgan ChaseÕs internal risk assessment system.

ÒCriticizedÓ assets generally represent a risk profile similar to a

rating of a CCC+/Caa1 or lower, as defined by the independent

rating agencies.Cross-currency interest rate swaps
are contracts that involve
the exchange of both interest and principal amounts in two dif-

ferent currencies. Also see Interest rate swaps in this glossary.
Debt, equity, commodity and other contracts
include swapsand option contracts that are similar to interest rate contracts

except the underlying instrument is debt-, equity- or commodity-
rela
ted.EITF:Emerging Issues Task Force. 
EITF Issue 01-14:ÒIncome Statement Characterization ofReimbursements Received for ÔOut-of-PocketÕ Expenses Incurred.Ó
EITF Issue 02-03:ÒIssues Involved in Accounting for DerivativeContract Held for Trading Purposes and Contracts Involved in

Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities.Ó
FASB: Financial Accounting Standards Board. 
FIN 39: FASB Interpretation No. 39, ÒOffsetting of Amounts
Related to Certain Contracts.Ó FIN 41: FASB Interpretation No. 41, ÒOffsetting of Amounts
Related to Certain Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase

Agreements.Ó
FIN 45:FASB interpretation No. 45, ÒGuarantorÕs Accounting
and Disclosure Requirement for Guarantees, including Indirect

Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others.ÓFIN 46:FASB interpretation No. 46, ÒConsolidation of Variable
Interest Entities, an interpretation of Accounting Research

Bulletin No. 51.ÓForeign currency options 
are similar to interest rate options
except they are based on foreign exchange rates. Also see

Interest rate options in this glossary.
Foreign exchange contracts
are contracts that provide for the
future receipt and delivery of foreign currency at previously

agreed-upon terms.
Forward rate agreements
are contracts to exchange payments
on a specified future date, based on a market change in interest

rates from trade date to contract settlement date.
Interest rate futures and forwards
are contracts for the
delayed delivery of securities or money market instruments. The
selling party agrees to deliver, on a specified future date, a spec-

ified instrument at a specified price or yield. Interest rate options
, including caps and floors, are contracts
to modify interest rate risk in exchange for the payment of a

premium when the contract is initiated. A writer of interest rate

options receives a premium in exchange for bearing the risk of

unfavorable changes in interest rates. Conversely, a purchaser of

an option pays a premium for the right, but not the obligation,

to buy or sell a financial instrument or currency at predeter-

mined terms in the future. 
Interest rate swaps 
are contracts in which a series of interest
rate payments in a single currency are exchanged over a pre-

scribed period. An example of a situation in which an interest

rate swap would be used would be to convert fixed-rate debt to
a variable rate. By entering into the swap, the principal amount
of the debt would remain unchanged, but the interest streams

would change from fixed to variable. 
Investment-grade: An indication of credit quality based on
JPMorgan ChaseÕs internal risk assessment system. ÒInvestment-

gradeÓ represents a risk profile similar to a rating of a BBB-/Baa3

or better, as defined by the independent rating agencies. 
Liquidity risk: The risk of being unable to fund a portfolio ofassets at appropriate maturities and rates, and the risk of being

unable to liquidate a position in a timely manner at a reasonable

price. Managed credit card receivables or managed basis: 
Refersto credit card receivables on the FirmÕs balance sheet plus credit

card receivables that have been securitized. 
113J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report 
Glossary of termsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report114
Mark-to-market exposure: 
Mark-to-market exposure is a 
measure, at a point in time, of the value of a derivative or for-

eign exchange contract in the open market. When the mark-to-
market value is positive, it indicates the counterparty owes
JPMorgan Chase and, therefore, creates a repayment risk for the

Firm. When the mark-to-market value is negative, JPMorgan
Chase owes the counterparty. In this situation, the Firm does

not have repayment risk. 
Market risk: The potential loss in value of portfolios and finan-cial instruments caused by movements in market variables, such
as interest and foreign-exchange rates, credit spreads, and equity

and commodity prices. Master netting agreement: 
An agreement between two
counterparties that have multiple derivative contracts with each
other that provides for the net settlement of all contracts

through a single payment, in a single currency, in the event of

default on or termination of any one contract. See FIN 39.Merger: Refers to the December 31, 2000, merger of TheChase Manhattan Corporation and J.P. Morgan & Co.

Incorporated. Net interest spread on interest-earning assets: 
The averagerate for interest-earning assets less the average rate paid for all

interest-bearing liabilities. 
Operating basis or operating earnings:
Reported results
excluding the impact of merger and restructuring costs, 

special items, credit card securitizations and the amortization 

of goodwill. Operational risk:The risk of loss resulting from inadequate or
failed processes or systems, human factors, or external events. 
Overhead ratio: Operating expense (excluding merger andrestructuring costs and special items) as a percentage of operat-
ing revenue. 
SFAS: 
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards.
SFAS 5: 
ÒAccounting for Contingencies.ÓSFAS 87: 
ÒEmployersÕ Accounting for Pensions.Ó SFAS 88: 
ÒEmployersÕ Accounting for Settlements andCurtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for
Termination Benefits.Ó SFAS 106: 
ÒEmployersÕ Accounting for Postretirement Benefits
Other Than Pensions.Ó SFAS 107: 
ÒDisclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments.Ó
SFAS 109:
ÒAccounting for Income Taxes.Ó 
SFAS 114:
ÒAccounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan.Ó 
SFAS 115: 
ÒAccounting for Certain Investments in Debt andEquity Securities.Ó SFAS 121: 
ÒAccounting for the Impairment of Long-LivedAssets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of.Ó SFAS 123: 
ÒAccounting for Stock-Based Compensation.Ó SFAS 128:
ÒEarnings per Share.Ó 
SFAS 133:
ÒAccounting for Derivative Instruments and HedgingActivities.Ó SFAS 140: 
ÒAccounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial
Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities Ð a replacement of

FASB Statement No. 125.Ó SFAS 141:
ÒBusiness Combinations.Ó SFAS 142:
ÒGoodwill and Other Intangible Assets.ÓSFAS 144:
ÒAccounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.Ó SFAS 146: 
ÒAccounting for Costs Associated with Exit orDisposal Activities.Ó Shareholder value added (ÒSVAÓ):
Represents operating earn-
ings minus preferred dividends and an explicit charge for capital. 
Six Sigma:Represents a business management approach that
enables firms to improve the quality of products and services

delivered to clients through understanding client priorities, and

then eliminating process defects and failures. ÒSigmaÕsÓ (or 

standard deviations) are statistical measures of the defects or 

failures generated by a business process. 
Special items:All amounts are on a pre-tax basis unless other-
wise noted. Special items in 2002 included a $1.3 billion charge

for the settlement of the Enron surety litigation and the estab
lish-ment of a litigation reserve and a $98 million charge for excess

real estate capacity related to facilities in the West Coast of the
United States. Special items in 2001 included a $25 millionloss(after-tax) from the cumulative effect of a transition adjustment

related to the adoption of SFAS 133. Special items in 2000
included an $827 million gain on the sale of the Hong Kong
retail banking business, a $399 million gain from the transfer of
Euroclear-related business, an $81 million gain from the sale of

the Panama operations and a $176 million loss resulting from

the economic hedge of the purchase price of Flemings prior to its

acquisition. Special items in 1999 were interest income of $62

million from prior yearsÕ tax refunds, gains of $166 million from

sales of nonstrategic assets and a $100 million special contribution
to The Chase Manhattan Foundation. In 1998, special items were

interest income of $191 million from prior yearsÕ tax refunds, a

$131 million gain from the sale of a global trust and agency 

services business, a $56 million gain from the sale of an invest-

mentmanagement busi
ness in Australia and costs incurred of
$37 million for acceleratedvesting of stock-based incentive awards.
Stress testing:
A scenario that measures market risk under
unlikely but plausible events in abnormal markets. Value-at-Risk (ÒVARÓ):
A measure of the dollar amount of
potential loss from adverse market moves in an ordinary market

environment. 
115J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report
Community Advisory Board
Janie Barrera
President & CEO

ACCION Texas

San Antonio, TXFlorence E. Baugh
Director 

Neighborhood Services
Community Action
Organization of Erie County
Buffalo, NY
Pascual BlancoExecutive Director

La Fuerza Unida de Glen Cove
Glen Cove, NYSylvia K. Brooks
President & CEO

Houston Area Urban League

Houston, TXJames BuckleyExecutive Director

University Neighborhood
Housing Program

Bronx, NY
Joseph M. CarbonePresident & COO

The WorkPlace, Inc.

Bridgeport, CTDavid ChenExecutive Director

Chinese American 
Planning Council
New York, NY
William ClarkPresident & CEO

Urban League of Rochester
Rochester, NY
Frederick A. Davie, Jr.
Vice President 
Faith-Based Programs

Public/Private Ventures

Philadelphia, PA
Harold DiRienzo
President & CEO

Parodneck Foundation for

Self-Help Housing and 
Community Development
New York, NY
William Frey
Vice President& Director
Enterprise Foundation
New York City Office

New York, NY 
David GallagherExecutive Director

Center for Neighborhood
Economic Development
Long Island City, NY
Luther GatlingPresident

Budget & Credit Counseling

Services
New York, NY
Caroline Glackin
Executive Director

First State Community Loan Fund
Wilmington, DEErnest Gonzalez
Vice President
Long Island Hispanic Chamber 
c/o Captree Chemicals

Amityville, NYColvin GrannumPresident 

Bedford-Stuyvesant 

Restoration Corporation
Brooklyn, NY
Roy HastickPresident & CEO

Caribbean American Chamber
of Commerce & Industry

Brooklyn, NY
Lynda Ireland
Executive Director

New York/New Jersey 

Minority Purchasing Council

New York, NY 
Kim JacobsExecutive Director

Hudson Valley Affordable

Housing Finance Corp.
Hawthorne, NY
Erma C. Johnson HadleyVice ChancellorTarrant County CollegeFort Worth, TX
Francine JustaExecutive Director

Neighborhood Housing
Services of New York City

New York, NY 
Christopher KuiExecutive Director

Asian Americans for Equality
New York, NY 
Martha LewinExecutive Director

WomenRisingJersey City, NJ
William LinderChief Executive Officer

New Community Corporation
Newark, NJFred Lucas
President & CEO

Faith Center for Community
Development, Inc.
New York, NY 
John MadeoPresident

Fairfield 2000 Homes
Corporation
Southport, CTMaria MatosExecutive Director

Latin American 
Community Center
Wilmington, DEGhebre Selassie Mehreteab
President & CEO

The NHP Foundation
Washington, DCLuis MirandaChairman
Audubon Partnership for
Economic Development
New York, NY
James MorgoPresident

Long Island 
Housing Partnership
Hauppauge, NYJeremy Nowak
President & CEO

The Reinvestment Fund
Philadelphia, PA
David PaganExecutive Director

Southside United Housing
Development Fund
Corporation
Brooklyn, NY
James PaleyExecutive Director

Neighborhood Housing
Services of New Haven
New Haven, CTKaren Phillips
Community Development Fellow
Millano Graduate School
New York, NY
Edwin ReedChief Financial Officer

Allen AME Church

Jamaica, NYMarcos Ronquillo
General Partner
The Ronquillo Law Firm, P.C.

Dallas, TXClifford Rosenthal
Executive Director

National Federation of
Community Development
Credit Unions

New York, NY
Winston A. RossExecutive Director

Westchester CommunityOpportunity Program

Elmsford, NY
David ScheckExecutive Director

New Jersey Community 
Loan Fund
Trenton, NJDoris SchniderPresident

Delaware Community

Investment Corporation
Wilmington, DERoberta SchofieldConsultant
Salvation Army
Ponte Vedra Beach, FL
Carlisle Towery
President

Greater Jamaica Development

Corporation
Jamaica, NYTerry Troia
Executive Director

Project Hospitality

Staten Island, NYReginald Tuggle
Pastor
Memorial Presbyterian Church

Roosevelt, NYDonna Wertenbach
President

Community Economic
Development Fund
Hartford, CT
Lloyd WilliamsPresident & CEO

Greater Harlem Chamber 

of Commerce

New York, NY
Kathryn WyldePresident & CEO

NYC Partnership & 
New York City Investment Fund

New York, NY 
Johnny Ray Youngblood
Pastor
St. Paul Community 
Baptist Church

Brooklyn, NY
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report116
Philip C. Ackerman Chairman, President 

and Chief Executive Officer

National Fuel Gas CompanyRichard A. Bernstein 
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

R.A.B. Holdings, IncRobert B. Catell Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

KeySpan CorporationJoseph P. Clayton 
President and 

Chief Executive Officer

Sirius Satellite Radio Inc.Eugene R. Corasanti Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

CONMED CorporationCharles F. Fortgang 
Chairman
M. Fabrikant & Sons, Inc.Arnold B. Glimcher 
Chairman
PaceWildenstein
Lewis Golub Chairman of the Board

The Golub CorporationWallace A. Graham Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive Officer

Schenectady International, Inc.
Joel J. Horowitz 
Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer

Tommy Hilfiger CorporationThomas H. Jackson President

University of RochesterPeter J. Kallet Chairman, President 

and Chief Executive Officer

Oneida Ltd.Dr. Shirley Strum Kenny 
President

Stony Brook University
Charles A. Krasne President and 

Chief Executive Officer

Krasdale Foods, Inc.Richard S. LeFrak 
President

Lefrak Organization, Inc.Leo Liebowitz President and 

Chief Executive Officer

Getty Realty Corp.William L. Mack Founder and Managing Partner
Apollo Real Estate Advisors, L.P.
Theodore Markson 
Chairman
Paris Accessories, Inc.Herman I. Merinoff 
Chairman
Charmer Industries, Inc.John Morphy Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer

Paychex, Inc.Dennis M. Mullen President and 

Chief Executive Officer

Agrilink Foods, Inc.Michael C. Nahl Senior Vice President 

and Chief Financial Officer

Albany International Corp.
Samuel I. Newhouse, IIIAdvance PublicationsWilliam C. Rudin President

Rudin Management 
Company, Inc.
John Shalam Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Audiovox CorporationArthur T. Shorin 
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

The Topps Company, Inc.
Charles R. Trego, Jr.
Executive Vice President 

and Chief Financial Officer

Rich Products Corporation
Kenneth L. Wallach 
Chairman, President and 

Chief Executive Officer

Central National-Gottesman Inc.Fred Wilpon
Chairman
Sterling Equities, Inc.Judith D. Zuk President and 

Chief Executive Officer

Brooklyn Botanic Garden
Regional Advisory Board
National Advisory Board
J.T. Battenberg III
Chairman of the Board, 

Chief Executive Officer 

and President

Delphi CorporationRichard I. Beattie Esq.
Chairman, 
Executive Committee
Simpson Thacher & BartlettLeon D. Black Founding Partner
Apollo Management, L.P.
Richard J. Bressler 
Senior Executive Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer

Viacom Inc.David F. DeVoe 
Chief Financial Officer

News CorporationWilliam T. Dillard II
Chief Executive Officer

Dillard Department Stores, Inc.
Archie W. Dunham 
Chairman
ConocoPhillipsCharles E. Golden Executive Vice President 

and Chief Financial Officer

Eli Lilly and CompanyJohn B. Hess Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive Officer

Amerada Hess CorporationThomas O. Hicks Chairman of the Board

Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst

IncorporatedJohn W. Kluge 
Chairman and President

Metromedia Company
Thomas H. Lee Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

The Thomas H. Lee Partners, LPDavid C. McCourt Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

RCN CorporationDarla D. Moore 
President

Rainwater, Inc.
J. Pedro Reinhard 
Executive Vice President 

and Chief Financial Officer

The Dow Chemical CompanyJoseph L. Rice IIIChairman
Clayton, Dubilier & Rice, Inc.Stephen A. Schwarzman President and 

Chief Executive Officer

The Blackstone Group
David L. Shedlarz Executive Vice President 

and Chief Financial Officer

Pfizer Inc.Henry R. Silverman Chairman, President 

and Chief Executive Officer

Cendant CorporationMortimer B. Zuckerman Chairman
Boston Properties, Inc.
117J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report
‡JPMorgan International Council
Hon. George P. Shultz
Chairman of the Council
Distinguished Fellow
Hoover Institution, 
Stanford University
Stanford, California  
Mohammed Ali AbalkhailFormer Minister of 

Finance & Economy
Riyadh, Saudi ArabiaJean-Louis Beffa
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Compagnie de Saint-Gobain
Paris, FranceHon. Bill BradleyAllen & Company 
New York, New York
Martin FeldsteinPresident and 

Chief Executive Officer

National Bureau of 

Economic Research, Inc.

Cambridge, MassachusettsFritz Gerber
Honorary Chairman
Roche Holding Ltd.
Basel, SwitzerlandClaudio X. Gonz⁄lezChairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive Officer

Kimberly-Clark de M”xico, 
S.A. de C.V.

Mexico City, Mexico
Sir Christopher HoggChairman
Reuters Group PLC

London, United KingdomAlain A. JolyChairman of the 
Supervisory Board

LÕAir Liquide S.A.Paris, FranceKaren Katen
President, 

Global Pharmaceuticals
Pfizer Inc.
New York, New York 
Hon. Henry A. KissingerChairman
Kissinger Associates, Inc.
New York, New York
Yotaro Kobayashi
Chairman of the Board

Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd.

Tokyo, JapanRahmi M. Ko“Chairman
Ko“ Holding A.S.
Istanbul, Turkey
Hon. Lee Kuan Yew
Senior Minister
Republic of Singapore   

Singapore
Antonio Madero
Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive Officer

SANLUIS CorporaciŠn, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico City, Mexico
The Rt. Hon. Brian Mulroney
Senior Partner
Ogilvy Renault
Montreal, Canada
David J. OÕReillyChairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

ChevronTexaco Corporation

San Ramon, California
John B. Prescott, A.C.
Chairman
Australian Submarine
Corporation Pty Ltd.
Melbourne, Australia
David RockefellerFormer Chairman
The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.
New York, New York 
Sir John RoseChief Executive
Rolls-Royce plc
London, United Kingdomempp
Chairman of the Board 

of Management
DaimlerChrysler A.G.
Stuttgart, GermanyWalter V. Shipley
Former Chairman of the Board

The Chase Manhattan
Corporation
New York, New York
Jess S¿derbergPartner and 
Chief Executive Officer

A.P. M¿ller

Copenhagen, DenmarkWilliam S. Stavropoulos
Chairman of the Board

The Dow Chemical Company
Midland, Michigan Ratan Naval Tata
Chairman
Tata Sons LimitedMumbai, IndiaMarco Tronchetti Provera
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Pirelli S.p.A.

Milan, ItalyCees J.A. van LedeChairman, 
Board of Management

Akzo Nobel
Arnhem, The Netherlands
Douglas A. Warner III
Former Chairman of the Board

J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.

New York, New York 
L.R. Wilson, O.C.Chairman of the Board

Nortel Networks Corporation
Toronto, CanadaJaime Augusto Zobel de Ayala
President

Ayala CorporationMakati City, Philippines
Frederick H.S. Allen
Executive Secretary 

of the Council
New York, New York 
Ex-Officio Member
William B. Harrison, Jr.
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.

New York, New York
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report118
Hans W. Becherer
Retired Chairman 

and Chief Executive Officer 

Deere & Company
Riley P. Bechtel 
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer

Bechtel Group, Inc.
Frank A. Bennack, Jr. 
Chairman of the 
Executive Committee and
Vice Chairman of the Board 
The Hearst CorporationLawrence A. Bossidy 
Retired Chairman 

Honeywell International Inc.
M. Anthony Burns 
Chairman Emeritus
Ryder System, Inc.H. Laurance Fuller Retired Co-Chairman

BP Amoco p.l.c.Ellen V. Futter 
President and Trustee

American Museum 
of Natural HistoryWilliam H. Gray, III 
President and 

Chief Executive Officer

The College Fund/UNCFWilliam B. Harrison, Jr.
Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer
Helene L. Kaplan Of Counsel
Skadden, Arps, Slate, 
Meagher & Flom LLPLee R. Raymond Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive Officer

Exxon Mobil CorporationJohn R. Stafford 
Consultant and 
Retired Chairman of the Board

WyethBoard of Directors
William B. Harrison, Jr.

Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer,

Chairman of the 
Executive CommitteeSteven D. BlackInvestment Bank David A. CoulterInvestment Bank
Investment Management 
& Private BankingDina DublonFinanceJohn J. Farrell
Human Resources
Walter A. GubertInvestment BankThomas B. KetchumTechnology CouncilDonald H. LaytonChase Financial Services
Treasury & Securities ServicesJames B. Lee, Jr.
Investment BankMarc J. Shapiro
Finance, Risk Management 
& Administration James E. StaleyInvestment Management 
& Private BankingJeffrey C. Walker
JPMorgan PartnersDon M. Wilson IIIInvestment Bank William T. Winters
Investment Bank Executive CommitteeOther corporate officers
David B. EdelsonTreasuryFrederick W. Hill
Marketing & CommunicationsAnthony J. HoranSecretary
Donald H. McCree, III
Credit
William H. McDavidLegalWilliam J. MoranAuditJoseph L. SclafaniController
Lesley Daniels Webster
Market Risk Management 119J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report
Report on governance and business practices
One of the tests of leadership is adjusting to changing standards
in recognition of the FirmÕs responsibilities as a corporate citizen

and in consideration of the interests of clients, employees and

shareholders. 
During 2002 and continuing in 2003, the Firm undertook aseries of actions designed to meet new and emerging standards

for sound corporate governance and ethical business practices.

Some actions were in response to new rules and regulations,

which we have sought to implement vigorously. Some were in

anticipation of expected changes, such as our implementation
of proposed New York Stock Exchange (ÒNYSEÓ) listing 

standards on corporate governance. Others have been a

strengthening of policies or procedures already in place, as for

example those designed to assess reputational risk associated

with products and transactions. 
Many of the policies and procedures adopted or amended as 
a result of these actions are described elsewhere in this Annual

Report, the proxy statement and the FirmÕs website. The follow-

ing summarizes some of the more significant ones. The FirmÕs

objective is to be a leader in everything it does, and the areas of

ethical business practices and corporate governance are no

exception. Because standards will continue to evolve, the Firm

will continue to review its policies and procedures and adapt

them as may be necessary or appropriate. 
Corporate governance
In February 2003, the Firm launched a governance section on 

the corporate website designed to provide investors with 

access to the FirmÕs governance materials, including the Board

of DirectorsÕ corporate governance practices, charters of the

principal Board committees and descriptions of management

committees. You may view these materials online by going to

www.jpmorganchase.com and clicking on Governance. The

BoardÕs corporate governance practices and the charter of the

Audit Committee are also set out in the proxy statement. The

following are some key points from the Governance website: 
Independence.A substantial majority of directors must 
be independent under the BoardÕs independence definition

adopted in accordance with the NYSEÕs proposed listing 

standards. 
The Board determined on January 21, 2003 that each 
of the nonmanagement directors is independent in 

accordance with the BoardÕs independence definition.

William B. Harrison, Jr. is the only management director.
Each of the BoardÕs principal committees is composed solely
of nonmanagement directors, and members of the Audit

Committee, the Compensation & Management Development
Committee and the Governance Committee must also be

independent.Executive sessions for nonmanagement directors.The nonmanagement directors meet outside the presence 

of management at least twice each year. One meeting, 

generally in January, is to evaluate the CEO and determine
his annual incentive compensation. That meeting is led bythe chairman of the Compensation & Management
Development Committee. A second meeting, generally in
July, is for a review of the Board and its corporate gover-

nance practices, and is led by the chairman of the
Governance Committee. Meetings of nonmanagement 

directors for other purposes will be led by the chairman of

the committee most relevant to the topic.
Access to outside resources and to management.The Board
and Board committees are authorized to seek legal or other

expert advice from sources independent of management and

will be provided the resources for such purposes. In particu-

lar, the Compensation & Management Development

Committee has authority to retain independent consulting

firms to assist it in determining executive compensation,
while the Governance Committee has authority to retain a

search firm to identify director candidates. Directors have

complete access to management. Director compensation.The Board believes that it is desirable
that a significant portion of overall director compensation be

linked to our common stock. The BoardÕs total compensation

includes about one-third cash and two-thirds stock-based

compensation. Auditor independence Auditor independence is central to the confidence shareholders

and others place in the Firm. The Audit Committee adopted a
policy in March 2002 that prohibited any new engagements of

the FirmÕs external auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (ÒPwCÓ),

other than for audit and audit-related services and for tax

advice. The proxy statement contains a report of the Audit

Committee and also a report of fees paid to PwC. NYSE 

proposed listing standards highlighted the importance of open

communications between the Audit Committee and a companyÕs

external auditors. As a standard practice, PwC attends meetings

of the Audit Committee. In addition, the Audit Committee meets
periodically with PwC in a private session without management
present. Practices supportive of auditor independence are

reflected in the charter of the Audit Committee, a copy ofwhich is in the proxy statement and also is available on the

FirmÕs website.
Certified financial statements The accompanying financial statements were certified by the

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and by the Chief Financial

Officer as required under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. The Firm

views the CEO/CFO certification process as one fully consistent

with managementÕs acceptance of responsibility for preparing

the consolidated financial statements that accompany the
AnnualReport 
(see page 70). The Firm instituted a more
detailed and formal review process as part of its implementation

of the CEO/CFO certification requirement. This yearÕs financial

section, which starts at page 17, has increased by 19 pages from

last year. This is the result of new reporting requirements and of

our goal of increased transparency in our financial disclosures.
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. /2002Annual Report120
Report on governance and business practices
.Policy review office 
Primary responsibility for adherence with all policies and proce-

dures, including those designed to address reputational risk and

to assure a high level of integrity and ethical conduct, lies with

the business units conducting the transactions in question. In
addition to this framework, in August 2002 the Firm put in
place a new set of procedures designed to reinforce the focus

on integrity, ethics and reputational risk and provide a senior

level of review of transactions with clients. Business units are

required to submit to regional Policy Review Committees pro-
posed transactions that raise an issue or question in this area for

any reason but specifically including (i) transactions where a

material objective is to achieve a particular accounting treat-

ment, (ii) transactions designed to achieve a particular tax
treatment, (iii) transactions where there is material uncertainty

about legal or regulatory treatment, (iv) transactions with

unusual or highly complex structures or cash flow profiles, and

(v) transactions which have as a significant purpose or effect the

providing of financing but which take the form of derivatives.

Transactions are reviewed for factors that could affect reputa-
tional risk, including where applicable the intended financial

disclosure of the transaction by the client. The committees and

their deliberations are overseen by a central Policy Review

Office. For a further description of this process and the Policy

Review Office, see Reputation risk on page 64.
Investment protection principles and 
analyst independence  
During 2002, the Firm undertook a number of steps to ensure

the integrity of equity research by the FirmÕs analysts. Among

these were implementation of new rules of the NYSE and the

National Association of Securities Dealers (ÒNASDÓ) affecting

equity research and the adoption of investment protection prin-

ciples. In December 2002, the Firm was among the financial
institutions which reached an agreement in principle with the

Securities and Exchange Commission (ÒSECÓ), the NASD, the
NYSE, the New York State Attorney GeneralÕs Office, and the

North American Securities Administrators Association regarding

the reform of research operations. Pursuant to the agreement in

principle, the Firm will agree, among other things (i) to pay 

$50 million for retrospective relief, (ii) to adopt internal structur-

al and operational reforms that will further augment the steps it

has already taken to ensure the integrity of the FirmÕs analyst

research, (iii) to pay $25 million spread over five years to provide
independent third-party research to clients, and (iv) to pay 

$5 million towards investor education. The agreement is subject

to finalization of mutually satisfactory settlement documents
and approval by the SEC and state regulatory authorities. 
Stock options In August 2002, the Firm announced that it would expense all
stock options granted to employees beginning January 2003.
This announcement was made in partnership with other leading
financial services firms because the Firm believed it would be
best for investors to have consistency across the industry. 

For a description of employee stock-based incentives and the
expensing of stock options, see Note 24 on page 96.  Stock ownership The Board considers it desirable that directors own a significant

number of shares of JPMorgan Chase stock or stock equivalents.

The Board believes that current holdings of Board members,

which are set out in the proxy statement, meet this objective.

For officers who are members of the Executive Committee,

stock ownership guidelines implemented in July 2002 require

that each executive retain 75% of the net shares of stock

received from stock grants and options, after taxes and, for
options, the cost of exercise. Any exception to this policy would

require approval by the Chairman of the Board. 
Worldwide rules of conduct 
In April 2002, the Firm issued its code of conduct and business
ethics, referred to as the Worldwide Rules of Conduct, to all

employees and, as modified by applicable addenda, to directors.

The Worldwide Rules address compliance with law; reporting of

violations of the Worldwide Rules or of laws or regulations;

employment and diversity; confidentiality of information; protec-

tion and proper use of the FirmÕs assets; conflicts of interest; and

personal securities and other financial transactions. The Audit
Committee is responsible for oversight of managementÕs respon-

sibilities to maintain compliance with the FirmÕs ethical standards

and procedures and with laws and regulations. 
401(k) matching choices Commencing October 2002, the Firm eliminated a requirement

that half of its matching contribution for employees participat-
ing in the 401(k) plan be invested in JPMorgan Chase common
stock until the participant met certain age and service require-

ments. This allows all participants to diversify their investments
and decide for themselves appropriate levels of stock ownership. 
© 2003J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.

All rights reserved.
Printed in U.S.A. J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Corporate headquarters270 Park Avenue
New York, New York 10017-2070

Telephone: 212-270-6000http://www.jpmorganchase.com
Principal subsidiariesJPMorgan Chase BankChase Manhattan Bank USA, National AssociationJ.P. Morgan Securities Inc. 
Annual report on Form 10-K

The Annual Report on Form 10-K of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. as filed with the

Securities and Exchange Commission will
be made available upon request to:
Office of the Secretary
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. 

270 Park Avenue

New York, New York 10017-2070
Stock listingNew York Stock Exchange, Inc.
London Stock Exchange Limited
Tokyo Stock ExchangeThe New York Stock Exchange ticker sym-
bols for stock of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.

are as follows: 
JPM (Common Stock)JPM pfr A (Adjustable Rate Cumulative  Preferred Stock, Series A)
JPM pfr H (Depositary Shares Each
Representing a One-Tenth Interest in 

6 5/8% Cumulative Preferred Stock)
JPM pfr L (Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series L)
JPM pfr N (Adjustable Rate Preferred 
Stock, Series N)Financial information about J.P. Morgan
Chase & Co. can be accessed by 
visiting the investor relations site of 

www.jpmorganchase.com. Additional

questions should be addressed to:
Investor RelationsJ.P. Morgan Chase & Co. 

270 Park Avenue

New York, New York 10017-2070

Telephone: 212-270-6000Directors
To contact any of the Board members
please mail correspondence to:
J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
Attention (Board member)

Office of the Secretary

270 Park Avenue

New York, New York 10017-2070
The corporate governance practices of
the board, the charters of the principal

board committees and other governance

information can be accessed by visiting
www.jpmorganchase.com and clicking on

ÒGovernance.ÓStockholders may request

a copy of such materials by writing to the
Office of the Secretary at the above

address.
Transfer agent and registrar
Mellon Investor Services LLCOverpeck Center
85 Challenger Road
Ridgefield Park, New Jersey 07660-2108
Telephone: 1-800-758-4651https://vault.melloninvestor.com/isd
Stockholder inquiriesContact Mellon Investor Services LLC:By telephone:   

Within the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico: 1-800-758-4651 
(toll free)
From all other locations: 
1-201-329-8660 (collect) TDD service for the hearing impaired
within the United States, Canada and 
Puerto Rico: 1-800-231-5469 (toll free) 
All other locations: 1-201-329-8354 (collect)By mail:
Mellon Investor Services LLCOverpeck Center
85 Challenger Road
Ridgefield Park, New Jersey 07660-2108Dividend reinvestment plan
Stockholders of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.
may use their dividends to purchase

shares of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co. 

common stock through the Dividend

Reinvestment Plan. A prospectus 

and enrollment card may be obtained by 

calling 1-800-758-4651 or by writing to
Mellon Investor Services LLC, the 
reinvestment agent for the plan, at theaddress indicated above.  
Direct deposit of dividends
For information about direct deposit of
dividends, please contact Mellon Investor
Services LLC.Duplicate mailingsIf you receive duplicate mailings because
you have more than one account listing,

you may wish to save J.P. Morgan Chase

& Co. money by consolidating your
accounts. Please write to the agent at the
address above.
Independent accountantsPricewaterhouseCoopers LLP1177 Avenue of the Americas

New York, New York 10036
