2012 Annual Report
Annual Meeting 
The 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders will 
be held on Tuesday, April 23, 2013, at 11 a.m. 
Eastern Time, at The W Hotel, The Great Room, 
 401 North Fort Lauderdale Beach Boulevard, 
 Ft. Lauderdale, Florida.
About the Cover:
 ﬁStrength of Purposeﬂ by 
Bryan Larsen, ©2013 Bryan Larsen, Quent 
Cordair Fine Art, 707-255-2242, cordair.com
Table of Contents
Consolidated Financial Highlights
 1To Our Shareholders
 2Executive Management
 19
Corporate Board of Directors
 20
Our Vision
To Create the Best Financial Institution Possible Œ ﬁThe Best of The Bestﬂ
Our Mission
To Make the World a Better Place to Live, By:
Helping our Clients Achieve Economic Success and Financial Security;
Creating a Place where our Associates can Learn, Grow and be Ful˜lled in their Work;
Making the Communities in which we Work Better Places to be; and thereby:
Optimizing the Long-Term Return to our Shareholders, while Providing a Safe and Sound Investment.
Our Values
2012 Annual Report
1CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
BB&T Corporation and Subsidiaries (Dollars in millions, except per share data)
(1)
 BB&T Corporation declared a special one-
time dividend of $0.01 per common share 
in the first quarter of 2011.
(2)
 Tangible common equity and tier 1 common 
equity are non-GAAP measures. BB&T 
uses the Tier 1 common equity definition 
used in the SCAP assessment to calculate 
these ratios. Refer to inside back cover for 
additional disclosures. 
(3)
 Excludes securities gains (losses), foreclosed 
property expense, amortization of intangible 
assets, merger-related and restructuring 
charges, the impact of FDIC loss share 
accounting, and other selected items.
(4)
 Total securities includes securities available 
for sale (AFS) and securities held to 
maturity (HTM). Average balances reflect 
both AFS and HTM securities at amortized 
cost. Period-end balances reflect AFS 
securities at fair value and HTM securities 
at amortized cost.
   
 2012
   2011
  
% Change
ANNUAL RESULTS
   
Net income available to common shareholders
 $ 1,916 
  
$ 1,289 
   48.6
 % Diluted earnings per common share
   2.70 
  
  1.83 
  
 47.5 
Cash dividends declared
(1)
 per common share
   0.80 
  
  0.65 
   23.1 
Book value per common share
   27.21 
    
24.98 
  8.9 
Tangible book value per common share
(2)
   17.52 
    
16.73 
   4.7 
   
AVERAGE BALANCES
   
Total assets
 $ 178,102 
  
$ 162,966 
   9.3
 % Total securities
(4)
   36,334 
    
29,923 
   21.4 
Loans and leases
   113,733 
    
105,962 
   7.3 
Deposits
   127,617 
    
112,318 
   13.6 
Total shareholders™ equity
   19,477 
    
17,267 
   12.8 
   
PERIOD-END BALANCES
   
Total assets
 $ 183,872 
   $ 174,579 
   5.3
 % Total securities
(4)
   38,731 
  
  36,407 
   6.4 
Loans and leases
   118,364 
    
111,205 
   6.4
 Deposits
   133,075 
  
  124,939 
   6.5 
Total shareholders™ equity
   21,223 
    
17,480 
   21.4 
PERFORMANCE RATIOS
   
Return on average assets
   1.14
 %   
 0.82
 %  Return on average common shareholders™ equity
   10.35 
    
7.49 
 Net interest margin Œ taxable equivalent
   3.91 
    
4.06 
 Fee income ratio
(3)
   42.5 
    
39.7 
 Efficiency ratio
(3)
   54.3 
    
55.2 
 CAPITAL RATIOS
(2)
   Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
  11.0
 %  
12.0
 % Tier 1 common equity as a percentage of risk-weighted assets
  
9.3
  
 9.4
 MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION
  End of period shares outstanding (in thousands)
   699,728 
    697,143 
Diluted weighted average shares outstanding (in thousands)
  
 708,877 
    
705,168 
Full-time equivalent associates
   33,981 
    
31,774 
Banking offices
   1,832 
    
1,779 
ATMs
   2,826 
  
  2,483 
2012 Annual Report
2TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS:
Guided by consistent values, BB&T has powered through 
economic and regulatory headwinds with a laser focus on growth 
opportunities created by long-standing relationships of trust 
with our clients, associates, communities and shareholders.
At a time when the nation™s economy remains uncertain and 
our leaders in Washington are divided and indecisive, we have 
 a choice between complaining or turning our attention to things 
we can control. At BB&T, we choose the latter. We are seizing 
opportunities to increase the value of our banking and non-
banking businesses with revenue-generating initiatives that will 
assure BB&T™s prosperity in any economic environment.
Our opportunities are many and diverse. In Texas, we are 
building on our Colonial acquisition with 30 new branches to 
take advantage of commercial loan opportunities in four of the 
nation™s most vibrant markets Œ Dallas, Houston, Austin and 
San Antonio. In South Florida, the BankAtlantic acquisition 
completed in 2012 doubled our size and bulked up our market 
share of the rich, multicultural Miami area market. We are 
aggressively expanding our wealth business so we are positioned 
to help baby boomers manage their financial assets, which we 
believe will remain one of the most lucrative retail opportunities 
for several decades. BB&T Insurance, our largest national-scale, 
non-banking business, is now the nation™s largest independent 
wholesale distributor of life insurance (and No. 2 in wholesale 
property and casualty insurance) after our 2012 acquisition of the 
Crump Group. We are expanding our corporate banking business, 
also national in scale, to build partnerships with large middle-
market and other companies seeking our capital and counsel 
KELLY S. KING
Chairman and Chief Executive Of˜cer
2012 Annual Report
3as they navigate an uncertain economy. Our mortgage banking 
business generated record revenues in 2012 with the boom in 
refinancings, and is positioned to continue bolstering our fee 
income as the home-purchase market recovers. A diverse group 
of other non-traditional, national businesses add to the revenue 
mix, ranging from AFCO/CAFO/Prime Rate insurance premium 
finance and Grandbridge Real Estate Capital commercial real 
estate mortgage to our commercial leasing business and Sheffield 
Financial power and sports equipment finance.
Our revenue is balanced between our national, non-banking 
businesses and our community bank regions centered in the 
fast-growing Southeast and Mid-Atlantic markets. We have 
built strong market shares in those banking states and are 
benefiting from long-term in-migration driven by economic 
opportunity, lifestyle advantages and warm weather. BB&T™s 
community bank structure offers a key competitive advantage 
by encouraging our bankers to make most decisions locally 
while also offering clients the diverse products and efficiency of 
 the nation™s sixth-largest branch network. 
To gauge the power of BB&T™s multi-cylinder revenue engine, 
consider this: Over the last five turbulent years, our adjusted 
revenue increased by 32% while the median of our peer 
 group was 7%.
None of this would be possible without BB&T™s value proposition, 
which delivers the absolute best service quality in the 
marketplace. Independent surveys of our key lines of business 
consistently rank BB&T at the top of the industry. We rank No. 1 
 among our in-market peers in overall satisfaction in Maritz 
Research™s survey of retail clients. For an unprecedented third 
consecutive year, BB&T ranked highest among primary U.S. 
mortgage servicing companies by J.D. Power and Associates. 
 BB&T™s website ranked first for best client experience in online 
 banking in Keynote™s 2012 Competitive Study, and the list goes on.
While we appreciate the accolades, we recognize that they last 
only as long as we deliver an equally strong value proposition to 
our associates who take such good care of our clients. That™s why 
we devote so much attention to building trusting relationships 
with our associates, based on our long-held values. Behind 
the values is the simple but powerful premise that strong 
character and judgment lead to success and, most importantly, 
happiness Œ a sense of self-esteem and pride in our work. We do 
not take any of this for granted. In a recent anonymous survey 
of associates, BB&T scored higher in virtually every category 
than a year earlier. One finding that I am most proud of: 
 92% of our associates Œ up 2 percentage points Œ say they 
are proud to work at BB&T. While this is an extraordinary 
testament to the commitment and passion of our associates, 
 we will not be satisfied until we reach 100%.
Thanks largely to our associates, BB&T never loses sight of our 
commitment to help the communities where we live and work. 
During times of economic hardship over the last five years, 
our associates have touched the lives of more than 6.7 million 
people in need with more than 4,400 community service projects 
 as part of our Lighthouse Project. 
These challenging years have been a powerful reminder that, 
first and foremost, our clients expect and deserve safety and 
security in their bank. We are proud that BB&T has emerged 
from this period stronger than ever with capital levels well 
exceeding regulatory requirements. That strength gives us the 
flexibility to meet our bottom-line commitment: optimizing 
 the long-term return to our shareholders by seizing organic 
growth opportunities and paying stable, growing dividends Œ 
BB&T™s top two priorities in deploying our capital. In addition, 
we have made major investments in building even stronger risk 
management systems while aggressively reducing our problem 
assets, now at the lowest levels since the beginning of the ﬁGreat 
Recession.ﬂ Another imperative in our still-sluggish economy 
is tightly controlling costs. BB&T continues to outperform our 
peers in efficiency measures. At the same time, we have avoided 
the large layoffs suffered by other banks, and in fact have been 
selectively hiring new associates to take advantage of growth 
opportunities in Texas and elsewhere.
While we believe our strategy positions BB&T to outperform 
our peers regardless of the economic environment, we must 
remain vigilant in a global economy that remains fragile and 
an interest-rate environment that is squeezing net interest 
margins. My biggest concern is businesses remain reluctant 
to borrow and invest because of uncertainty and indecision 
about important fiscal issues by our nation™s political leaders. 
Moreover, the decisions Congress has made in response to 
excess leveraging and other abuses by some Wall Street 
banks and mortgage lenders have hamstrung Main Street 
banks, including BB&T, which avoided the excesses. We do 
need to learn from and remedy our mistakes Œ and we have 
with sensible regulations such as limiting ﬁtoo big to failﬂ 
and requiring stronger capital and liquidity, while market 
forces have punished the worst violators. But we need to be 
careful about overreaction and creating so many regulatory 
constraints that we hamstring businesses and restrict their 
ability to take risk and earn a just reward.
We are seizing opportunities to increase the value of our banking 
 and non-banking businesses with revenue-generating initiatives that will 
 assure BB&T™s prosperity in any economic environment.
2012 Annual Report
4Unfortunately, excessive regulation is symptomatic of 
 a disturbing trend in Washington. I believe we are at a pivotal 
point in our country. While we have been successful for more 
than 200 years, we clearly have lost our way. We have become 
comfortable living beyond our means. As a country, we are 
currently spending $1.3 trillion more than we have in income. 
We have run up a debt of more than $16 trillion. This is not 
sustainable! At the same time, we have created too many 
government entitlement programs that tend, over time, to 
allow our citizens to become dependent on government support. 
 At BB&T, we believe we should have support programs to help 
those who have temporary difficulties in life, including those 
 who have lost their jobs during the downturn, but we cannot 
afford for them to become permanent crutches. We also should 
provide long-term support for those who are permanently 
disadvantaged and cannot help themselves. On the other hand, 
those who can work, must! As a country, we cannot afford to 
provide more and more government benefits for those who 
refuse to work and save for themselves. 
From a long-term perspective, too much support kills the drive, 
motivation and self-esteem that come from having to take care 
 of ourselves. We all need a purpose in life that we can be 
passionate about. Happiness in life comes from having 
productive work (purpose) that allows us to feel good about 
ourselves (self-esteem) because we earned it. Furthermore, all 
of these social programs come with a hidden or implicit cost. 
As government provides ﬁhelp,ﬂ it also requires us to follow 
excessive rules. We need to remember that America was founded 
by people who were fleeing from the tyranny of big government 
in Europe. Our forefathers came here looking for freedom Œ for 
life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. That has worked very 
well for a long time, but now we are strangling freedom with big 
government rules, bureaucracy and, of course, taxes. We are 
slowly ﬁkilling the Golden Goose.ﬂ 
When you take away people™s ability to prosper by working hard 
and seizing opportunities, you take away their hope. Without 
hope, people are no longer motivated to do their best. And when 
this happens, we as a country stop believing we can prosper 
and each generation can continue to do better. We must not let 
this happen. We need to recast the vision for our nation: We can 
and will return to the principles on which our great country 
was founded. We will continue to be the land of opportunity 
and hope. With positive inspirational and visionary leadership 
 by our governmental and business leaders, our best days as 
 a nation are ahead!
I also remain very optimistic about the banking industry and 
BB&T. It™s easy to get so caught up in negatives Œ worries about 
the economy or partisan paralysis in Washington Œ that we miss 
the bigger picture. That picture shows continuing and long-term 
positive fundamentals for financial services, still very much 
a growth industry. And within that picture, BB&T stands at 
the forefront with our growing and diverse clients, revenues 
 and markets.
Value Proposition Drives Revenue Growth
Revenue Mix
Based on segment revenues, excluding other, treasury and 
corporate for 4Q12. 
Revenue Growth through the Cycle
Adjusted to exclude the impact of large acquisitions for BB&T 
and peers and selected one-time items.
YTD 2012 vs. YTD 2007
Community Banking
Insurance Services
Financial Services
Residential Mortgage Banking
Specialized Lending
Dealer Financial Services
With positive inspirational and visionary leadership by our governmental 
 and business leaders, our best days as a nation are ahead!
14%
13%
8%6%12%
47%
2012 Annual Report
52012 RESULTS
BB&T had an outstanding year in 2012. We achieved record net 
income available to common shareholders and strong growth in 
noninterest income, led by record performances in mortgage 
banking, insurance and investment banking and brokerage. 
We continued to produce broad-based improvement in credit 
quality. We sustained balanced and broad-based loan growth 
despite a still-slow economy and improved the growth, mix 
and cost of our deposits. Our net interest margin remained 
strong, and we held noninterest expenses essentially flat while 
successfully completing our BankAtlantic and Crump Group 
acquisitions. With increasing and diverse sources of revenue, 
we believe BB&T is positioned for another high-performance 
year in 2013.
Net income available to common shareholders for 2012 
increased by 49% from 2011 to $1.9 billion. Earnings per 
diluted common share totaled $2.70, compared with $1.83 
earned in 2011, an increase of 48%. Total revenues increased 
12.0% to $9.8 billion in 2012 compared with 2011. 
Average loans and leases increased by 7.3% in 2012 over 
2011, exceeding the 6.1% average growth of our peer group. 
Commercial and industrial, direct retail and residential 
mortgage loans led BB&T™s broad-based growth. We are 
encouraged by increasing loan production from our Community 
Bank, up 26% over last year, with strong gains in our newer 
Florida, Texas and Alabama markets added through the 
Colonial acquisition. Although many of those commitments 
are not funded yet, we believe production is a good indicator of 
future growth if there is a pickup in momentum in the economy.
Our average deposit growth of 13.6% outpaced all of our 
peers, which had an average growth rate of 6.9%. We were 
particularly pleased that BB&T™s average noninterest-bearing 
deposits grew by 26.1% for the year, showing the success of our 
strategy to change our deposit mix with lower deposit costs. 
 We anticipate more modest deposit growth in the first quarter 
of 2013 with continued improvement in deposit costs. 
BB&T™s credit-quality measures also continued to improve. 
Total nonperforming assets as a percentage of average assets 
decreased each quarter in 2012 to 0.85% at year end excluding 
covered assets, the lowest level since the second quarter of 2008 
and superior to the 1.08% average of BB&T™s peers. We expect 
continued improvement at a modest pace in the first quarter 
of 2013, assuming no significant deterioration in the economy. 
Net charge-offs, excluding covered loans, also improved each 
quarter of 2012 to 1.04% in the fourth quarter, a four-year 
low. In the first quarter of 2013, we anticipate net charge-offs 
 to approximate 1.00% of average loans, and trend lower during 
the year. In addition, our foreclosed real estate balance has 
fallen to a five-year low.
BB&T™s fully taxable equivalent net interest income totaled 
$6.0 billion in 2012, a 6.2% increase from 2011. Our net 
interest margin remained strong at 3.91% for 2012, comparing 
 favorably with the 3.45% average of our peers. We do expect 
the margin to decline somewhat in 2013. Improvement 
 in BB&T™s deposit mix is being offset by continued pressure on 
our asset yields from the very low interest-rate environment 
and anticipated runoff of covered assets acquired as part of 
the Colonial transaction. The net interest margin, key to a 
bank™s profitability, is the difference between the interest 
received on loans and investments and the interest paid 
 on deposits and other funding, expressed as a percentage 
 of average earning assets.
Our noninterest income totaled $3.8 billion, a 22.7% increase 
over 2011. Insurance income benefited from a somewhat 
stronger pricing market and the acquisition of Crump Group. 
Mortgage banking income increased with higher gains 
on residential mortgage production and sales. Investment 
banking and brokerage fees and commissions grew because 
 of improved financial market conditions. BB&T™s fee income 
ratio improved to 42.5% for the year, up from 39.7% for 2011 
and compared favorably with our peer average of 38.0%. 
 The ratio reflects our continued success in diversifying our 
sources of revenue.
Excludes foreclosed property expense, provision for loan and lease losses, and securities gains (losses).
Pre-Tax Pre-Credit Earnings
Consistent Long-Term Earnings Power
As originally reported 15-year compound annual growth rate 13.3%
ﬁBB&T™s commitment to dividends shows management is more concerned 
 about their shareholders™ well-being than just running a business.ﬂ
FRANK FALGIANO
Owner, CEFCO Enterprises, Woodbridge, Virginia
As a buyer and seller of foreign coins, Frank Falgiano regularly does business with 20 banks around the world. He is also an active investor, preferring 
companies where he can keep a close eye on how they operate. As a client and as a shareholder, his hands-down favorite is BB&T and the Woodbridge, 
Virginia, branch that is four minutes from his home. During visits several times a week, he freely shares his opinion of BB&T with associates and clients 
in the lobby, many of them small business owners like himself. ﬁHe has a big booming voice and is very friendly,ﬂ says Woodbridge Financial Center 
Leader Monica Lewallen. ﬁHe™s a great advocate to spread the good word about us and our stock.ﬂ A retired Air Force lieutenant colonel, Frank started 
as a First Virginia shareholder in 1985 and has continued to accumulate shares in BB&T after the 2003 acquisition of First Virginia. He likes the steady 
dividend, straightforward communication, the way BB&T retained great associates like Monica from First Virginia, and how Monica and her colleagues 
all know his name, support local businesses, promptly answer his questions, value his time Œ and have a positive approach to their business and his.
Left to right: Michael Pybus, Senior Vice President, Area Executive, BB&T; Don Strehle, Regional President, Northern Virginia, BB&T; Dedrey Yowe, Relationship Banker, 
BB&T; Frank Falgiano, Owner, CEFCO Enterprises; Monica Lewallen, Assistant Vice President, Financial Center Leader, BB&T. Seated in background: Kimone Campbell, 
Teller Supervisor, BB&T
SHAREHOLDERS
2012 Annual Report
7We held noninterest expenses basically flat at $5.8 billion 
in 2012. Increases in production-related incentives and 
commissions were offset in part by decreases in foreclosed 
property expenses, which were at the lowest level since the third 
quarter of 2007. For the first quarter of 2013, we expect lower 
noninterest expenses, driven by decreases in production-related 
 incentives and professional services, with essentially flat 
discretionary spending and full-time equivalent employment. 
BB&T™s return on average assets improved to 1.14% in 2012 
 from 0.82% in 2011, while return on average common 
shareholders™ equity increased to 10.4% from 7.5%. Both 
measures are superior to our peer average. We also continue to 
outperform our peers in pre-tax, pre-credit earnings, which we 
believe is an important measure of a bank™s consistent long-term 
earnings power. Over the last 15 years, the compound annual 
growth rate of BB&T™s pre-tax, pre-credit earnings is 13.3%.
Overall, we believe our 2012 results reflect the excellent progress 
BB&T has made with our diversification strategy over the last 
several years as we work to return to normalized profitability.
OUR STOCK PERFORMANCE
Our ultimate responsibility is to optimize the long-term 
return to our shareholders, while providing a safe and sound 
investment. We meet that responsibility by managing BB&T 
for the long-term, rather than chasing the latest investment 
vehicle to boost short-term earnings. Consider, for example, 
our 20-year annualized total return to shareholders, which 
includes net stock price change plus dividends paid. BB&T™s 
return was 9.2%, compared with the 5.4% average of our peers. 
A $100 investment in BB&T shares in 1995 was worth $392 
 on December 31, 2012, significantly better than the S&P 500 
 as well as our in-market peers. 
In 2012, BB&T™s total return to shareholders was 18.4%. 
 In part, our shares benefited from the appreciation of most 
bank stocks as investors began to assign more reasonable 
valuations following the financial-market crisis of the last five 
years. But unlike some of our peers that realized outsized gains 
mainly because their shares were recovering from very poor 
performances in prior years, we believe investors recognize 
the value of BB&T™s well-defined and consistent strategies and 
 our proven ability to execute them.
Our long-term and consistent approach also is reflected in our 
dividend strategy. BB&T has paid a cash dividend every year 
since 1903. We became the first of the largest banks to announce 
an increase in our dividend in 2011, and our current dividend yield 
of approximately 3.00% is among the strongest in the banking 
industry. We have a special obligation to our shareholders 
because, unlike many big banks with large majorities of 
institutional investors, nearly half of BB&T™s shareholders are 
individuals who depend on our returns and dividends.
We are committed to a robust dividend payout going forward. 
In the fourth quarter of 2012, we earned $0.71 per diluted 
common share and paid out $0.20 per share, or a 28% payout. In 
January 2013, when BB&T declared our first quarter dividend, 
we increased the amount to $0.23 a share, which is consistent 
with the 2012 capital plan that BB&T submitted to the Federal 
Reserve last year. My pledge to shareholders is to continue 
 to manage BB&T for the long term so we are able to consistently 
increase our earnings and, in turn, reward our shareholders 
with a safe and sound investment that pays superior long-term 
returns and dividends.
OUR CAPITAL STRENGTH 
BB&T continues to be one of the strongest capitalized 
institutions in the banking industry. Our capital strength gives 
BB&T the financial strength to take advantage of opportunities 
that are in the best interest of our shareholders, including 
continuing our proactive dividend strategy.
Our capital levels Œ the margin by which creditors are covered 
if a bank™s assets are liquidated Œ well exceed regulatory 
requirements. Those levels include the impact of our Crump 
Group and BankAtlantic acquisitions and the early redemption 
of trust preferred securities in 2012. Moreover, even though 
Shareholder Return
BB&T
S&P Commercial Banks
S&P 500 Index
Peer Average
Depicts $100 invested at 12/31/95 and held through 12/31/12 with dividends reinvested in the security or index.
2012 Annual Report
8U.S. and international regulators have postponed more 
stringent requirements on bank capital and liquidity, we are 
very comfortable with our capital levels under those proposed 
requirements. We estimate BB&T™s Tier 1 common, a measure 
of tangible common equity and the ratio that regulators watch 
most closely, at 7.9% under the proposed U.S. capital rules. 
Under the proposed Basel III international capital rules Œ 
established by a group of the world™s top regulators and central 
bankers Œ we estimate BB&T™s Tier I common at 9.0%. Neither 
ratio includes mitigating actions that we will take to improve 
our capital ratios.
BB&T has submitted to the Federal Reserve our capital 
plans for the Fed™s 2013 Comprehensive Capital Analysis 
and Review, designed to ensure banks can meet their 
capital requirements in various challenging hypothetical 
economic scenarios that are more adverse than actually 
expected. While there are no guarantees, we believe BB&T 
will exceed all requirements, as we have for the last two 
years after these ﬁstress testsﬂ were introduced in response 
 to the financial-markets crisis.
Consistent with BB&T™s shareholder-friendly philosophy for 
capital deployment, our first priority is to fund organic growth, 
as we are doing in 2013 with our expansion in Texas. We believe 
strong organic growth provides the highest return and is in 
our shareholders™ best long-term interest. Our second priority 
is paying long-term, stable and growing dividends to our 
shareholders. Strategic acquisitions such as BankAtlantic and 
Crump that add to earnings are BB&T™s third priority. A fourth 
priority is repurchasing BB&T shares. We believe repurchases 
make sense only if the economy impedes organic growth 
opportunities, if acquisitions are not reasonably priced Œ and if 
the internal rate of return is superior to other options. 
OUR KEY STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES FOR 2013
A core BB&T value is recognizing reality, so we cannot 
ignore that challenges remain for our nation and industry. 
U.S. economic growth is still slow, hampered by lingering 
uncertainty about whether our political leaders can reach 
agreement on pressing fiscal issues. As a result of indecision 
in Washington, businesses are avoiding investments until they 
have a clearer picture about the economy and taxes Œ coupled 
with nervousness about higher regulatory and healthcare 
costs. Artificially low interest rates are constraining banks™ net 
interest margins, a key driver of profitability. Those concerns 
are compounded by the banking industry™s higher regulatory 
costs and intense competition. 
At BB&T, however, we believe our long-term strategy Œ and 
proven ability to consistently execute on that strategy Œ position 
us to continue to prosper and outperform our peers regardless 
of external challenges. For many years, we have invested in 
diversifying our assets and markets to create stable revenue 
and earnings, which in turn creates stable dividends and share 
prices for our shareholders. Those strategies now are paying off 
even in an economy with slow to moderate real Gross Domestic 
Product growth.
In addition, we are reasonably optimistic that ultimately we 
will see some positive leadership from Washington and at 
least a modest agreement on fiscal issues. If that happens, 
we believe the economy will gain momentum and businesses 
that have delayed borrowing and spending for five years will 
start to fund needed investments. In that scenario, BB&T™s 
strategies will propel us to even better performance for 
 our shareholders.
The industry consolidation that we have long predicted has been 
slower than anticipated. During the financial-markets crisis, 
banks were reluctant to sell because of depressed share prices. 
At the same time, regulators and even some former advocates 
of mammoth financial services conglomerates are having 
second thoughts about the benefits of bigness for bigness™ sake. 
Moreover, many of today™s potential sellers are asking for prices 
Current Dividend Yield of Stress-Tested Banks
BB&T Among Leaders in Dividend Yield
Source: Thomson Reuters
2012 Annual Report
9Industry Leading Client Satisfaction 
Overall Bank Satisfaction
Likelihood to Recommend
From Maritz Research 2012 Retail Client Satisfaction and Loyalty Survey, represents percentage of ﬁtop boxﬂ scores, indicating a 9 or 10 
rating on a 10-point scale. Peers include Bank of America, PNC/RBC, Regions, SunTrust and Wells Fargo.
ﬁHighest in Customer Satisfaction among
 Mortgage Servicing Companies,
 Three Years in a Row.ﬂ
Branch Banking and Trust received the highest numerical score 
among mortgage servicers in the proprietary J.D. Power and 
Associates 2012 Primary Mortgage Servicer Study
SM
. Study 
based on responses from 5,923 consumers measuring 25 
companies and measures the satisfaction of consumers with 
their current mortgage servicer. Proprietary study results are 
based on experiences and perceptions of consumers surveyed in 
April-May 2012. Your experiences may vary. Visit jdpower.com.
that we are not willing to pay. But we are also not willing to wait 
on others™ business plans. We are moving ahead with our own 
strategies. At the same time, we have the strength and discipline 
to watch for the right opportunities to enhance our market 
share in our banking states, including Texas, and in our related 
financial businesses with select strategic acquisitions that meet 
our rigorous criteria.
We believe the key to maximizing our probability of being both 
independent and prosperous over the long term is to create 
 a superior earnings-per-share growth rate without sacrificing 
the fundamental quality and long-term competitiveness of our 
business, nor taking unreasonable risk. For 2013, BB&T™s senior 
management has set the five strategic objectives described in 
the following sections of our annual report. In a sign of our 
consistency, while tactics may change, they are essentially 
unchanged from 2012. 
Deliver the BB&T Value Promise 
 thereby Creating the Perfect Client Experience
Our fundamental strategy is to provide the best value 
proposition in the marketplace. Value is a function of quality 
relative to price Œ and we focus on the quality component. 
Most companies do well in good times. The test comes 
during difficult times such as the last five years. Consumers 
become more discerning and do business with only the best 
companies with the best value propositions, while the marginal 
 companies disappear.
We™re proud that independent surveys show BB&T continues to 
win top-tier rankings in all aspects of our business. According 
to a survey of retail clients by Maritz Research, BB&T 
ranked No. 1 among our in-market peers in key categories Œ 
 their overall satisfaction with the bank, their likelihood 
 to recommend us to others, and their likelihood to bank with us 
in the future. On the commercial side, BB&T™s small business 
and middle market banking groups have won 83 excellence 
awards from Greenwich Associates since 2009, more than any 
other financial institution. During a time when banks face 
intense scrutiny over how they handled mortgages, BB&T 
again ranked highest in client service satisfaction among 
primary U.S. mortgage servicing companies by J.D. Power and 
Associates. The list goes on, with top client satisfaction ratings 
in areas including online banking, insurance sales, auto 
dealer finance, 401(k) retirement plan sponsorship and capital 
markets equity research.
Staying closely connected to client needs and opportunities 
has helped BB&T become one of the nation™s leading financial 
institutions. As we have grown, we have not lost sight of the 
importance of those relationships and the meaningful dialogue 
they create. Relationships built on trust and honesty are 
 the foundation of everything we do at BB&T. We will never take 
them for granted.
Winner of 22 Excellence Awards from Greenwich Associates: 
 19 National Awards and 3 Regional Awards
Received 83 awards since 2009, more than any other bank
Greenwich Associates 2012 U.S. Middle Market Banking Study and U.S. Small Business Banking Study.
ﬁTreat your clients with respect, help them manage their finances, 
 and they will be loyal for life.ﬂ
ADVICE GIVEN TO BB&T MULTICULTURAL MARKETS MANAGER LUIS LOBO 
 BY HIS FATHER, AN IMMIGRANT FROM COSTA RICA
BB&T™s multicultural markets are a striking example of understanding and meeting the needs of our clients. In a re˜ection of the burgeoning growth of 
the Latino, African-American and Asian-American populations Œ now one-third of the U.S. population Œ in 2012 we increased our multicultural ˚nancial 
centers by 35%, to 350. Our associates are culturally conversant, but language is just the beginning. Treating people with respect is an underlying tenet, 
which often means meeting our clients where they are Œ in their churches, community centers and workplaces. With Latinos making up the fastest-
growing multicultural segment, our 350 ˚nancial centers are branded ﬁVecinoﬂ (ﬁneighborﬂ in Spanish) and complemented by a Spanish-language 
website (es.BBT.com). Special features include multilingual ˚nancial literacy videos and a banking product for clients who regularly send money 
 to family members abroad. Every client is different. For example, many of our young Latino clients born in the U.S. prefer to speak English and are 
among the biggest consumers of online services. Like the nation™s shifting demographics, our multicultural program is constantly evolving.
Left to right: Frank Ramirez, Vice President, Financial Center Leader, BB&T; Fiorella Schmidt, Assistant Vice President, Financial Center Leader, BB&T; Margarita Gil 
García, Financial Center Leader, BB&T; Carmela Capistran, Assistant Vice President, Financial Center Leader, BB&T 
ASSOCIATES
2012 Annual Report
11Relationships also form the basis of BB&T™s Perfect Client 
Experience Œ service that is reliable, responsive, empathetic and 
competent. We know that we have to deliver that experience 
with every client, every day. It defines the BB&T brand, which 
has served us well for 141 years and continues to serve as 
our calling card as we enter and expand in new markets such 
 as Florida and Texas.
Ensure a Strong Associate Value Proposition
A value proposition with our associates built on a relationship of 
trust is an essential part Œ actually, a precondition Œ of building 
a trusting relationship with our clients. 
At BB&T, valuing associates starts with a positive work 
environment. During a time when many banks have cut staff 
and benefits to restore profitability, BB&T has continued pay 
raises, extensive health and wellness benefits and a retirement 
program offering both a pension and employer-matched 
401(k) plan. Our associate training program is ranked No. 1 
in the financial services industry by 
Training Magazine
. Our 
associate turnover rate in our community bank is low Œ less 
than 17%, down from 23% four years ago Œ which in turn creates 
 a consistent experience for our clients. 
But delivering on our value promise to associates requires 
more than pay and benefits. We believe our ultimate leadership 
challenge is to teach BB&T™s values. If values aren™t shared, they 
aren™t lived. We are relentless and consistent in communicating 
BB&T™s values to our associates. Those core values haven™t 
changed in 20 years: 
Character
 that depends on honesty 
and integrity; 
judgment
 that requires reason, recognizing 
reality and independent thinking; 
success
 that results from 
productivity, teamwork and justice; and ultimately 
happiness
, which is built on self-esteem and pride. 
In difficult times, clarity of focus is essential to guide a company. 
During the last five years of turmoil and uncertainty, BB&T 
has stayed on course because we all share the same beliefs. For 
example, our relationships with clients are built on trust Œ and 
trust depends on absolute honesty. That helps us determine 
what is right and reasonable. If something sounds right, we say 
so. If something feels wrong Œ such as an exotic mortgage that 
 a client cannot afford in the long run Œ we say so and together 
we walk away.
Particularly now, when so many of our clients and neighbors 
are struggling, we believe we can make a positive, meaningful 
difference. Our associates have made that difference most 
dramatically with our annual Lighthouse Project, contributing 
more than 200,000 hours and completing more than 4,400 
community projects since 2009. The projects have ranged from 
helping a food bank in New Bern, N.C.; shelters for abused 
children and women in Atlanta and Palm Beach County, 
Fla.; a substance abuse recovery organization for men in 
 Winston-Salem, N.C.; a children™s camp near Charlotte and 
 a disabilities foundation in Florence, S.C., to name just a few. 
For a remarkable example of our associates™ commitment to 
their clients and communities, please see the next page for 
the story of Daphne Dvorak, our receptionist in Fairhope, 
Alabama. At 88 years young, ﬁMs. Daphneﬂ finds joy in 
greeting and helping everyone she encounters in her hometown 
where she started her banking career 70 years ago.
I have never been prouder of our associates, and their 
commitment to the economic success and overall well-being 
 of our clients, communities and shareholders.
Accelerate Revenue Growth in a Tough Environment
We believe the key difference that defines the best-performing 
banks is strong revenue growth. Further, we believe the best way 
to sustain and build on that growth is to diversify our sources of 
revenue. At BB&T, diversification starts with a balance between 
our Community Bank, concentrated in our vibrant Southeast 
and Mid-Atlantic markets, and the national scale businesses we 
are building in high-growth areas such as mortgage banking, 
capital markets and specialized lending.
Delivering all Components of Pro˜tability
Among the Industry™s Most Ef˜cient Banks
Strong Fee Income Ratio
BB&T
BB&T
Peers
Peers
The ef˜ciency ratio re˚ects the cost to produce 
each dollar of revenue, expressed as a percentage, 
i.e., lower percentages represent more ef˜cient 
operations.
A higher fee income ratio indicates a bank is 
producing more of its net operating revenue from 
noninterest income and has more diverse sources 
of revenue.
Excludes securities gains (losses), foreclosed 
property 
expense, amortization of intangible 
assets, merger-related and 
restructuring charges, the impact of FDIC loss share accounting, 
and other selected items.
Peers include CMA, FITB, HBAN, KEY, MTB, PNC, RF, STI, USB 
and ZION.
Source: SNL and Company Reports
2012 Annual Report
12This strategy is crucial to our success in today™s low interest-
rate environment because it makes BB&T relatively less 
dependent on our core banking business, where our margins 
are constrained by the narrower spread between borrowing and 
lending rates. While we believe those margins will improve with 
gradually rising interest rates, BB&T is positioned to continue 
outperforming our peers regardless of interest rates because 
 of our growing and diversified revenue sources. We have greater 
flexibility as the economy moves through interest-rate cycles 
and we have greater control over our revenue streams.
BB&T™s revenue is split roughly 50-50 between our core banking 
operations and our national fee-income businesses, with 47% 
coming from our Community Bank and other businesses 
contributing shares ranging from 14% for insurance services 
 to 6% for dealer financial services. 
In 2013, BB&T is investing in revenue growth in several 
important ways. We are expanding in our newer banking markets 
by adding branches focused on commercial banking. In Florida, 
our BankAtlantic acquisition, completed in 2012, expands our 
penetration in the vibrant Miami area as that market recovers 
with firming real estate values. The acquisition adds $3 billion 
in core deposits, boosts our South Florida market share to No. 6 
 from No. 14 and complements the North Florida banking 
operations added in our earlier Colonial acquisition. The 2009 
Colonial transaction has been a huge benefit overall for BB&T 
in Florida, Alabama and Texas, generating billions in new loans. 
BB&T™s Capital Markets Corporate Banking group also 
continues to open offices in attractive new markets, developing 
robust relationships with corporate clients across the U.S. 
Over the last several years, we expanded our corporate 
banking capabilities in areas such as loan syndications, 
In Fairhope, Alabama, ﬁMs. Daphneﬂ knows just about everybody, and just about everybody knows her. Daphne Dvorak started in banking right 
out of high school in 1943, ˚ling checks and hand-delivering bank statements. Now, 70 years later at age 88, she still is greeting clients at BB&T™s 
downtown Fairhope branch. ﬁI like to be nice to people. I love all people, young people, old people, in-between people,ﬂ says Ms. Daphne, who works 
as a receptionist. She was worried she would lose her job when BB&T acquired Colonial Bank in 2009. ﬁI thought because of my age they would 
want me to stay home. I just want to work to do the best I can.ﬂ BB&T was delighted to welcome an associate who is an inspiration to clients, 
colleagues and most of Fairhope™s 19,000 residents. Ms. Daphne, who has 15 grandchildren and great-grandchildren, arises before 5 a.m. and 
walks everywhere in town, always stopping before the branch opens to pick up any litter and tend to the ˜owers. She can™t drive anymore due to 
 a degenerative eye disease, but still works every day with the help of a magni˚ed computer screen. And she still competes in 5k races, walking now, 
wishing she could still run marathons as she did until age 72. ﬁWhen I look at Ms. Daphne,ﬂ says Fairhope Financial Center Leader Kelly Lankford, 
 ﬁI see BB&T™s values.ﬂ
ﬁI love banking and I love people. I always have. That™s why I like what I do. 
 I always want to do whatever I can to help everyone.ﬂ
DAPHNE DVORAK
Receptionist, Fairhope, Alabama
2012 Annual Report
13treasury management, corporate leasing and insurance/risk 
management. When the financial-markets crisis forced many 
weaker banks to retreat, BB&T gained market share in the 
corporate segment by increasing our lending activity. Many 
corporate clients and prospects have welcomed BB&T as 
 a strong partner capable of providing a broad suite of corporate 
banking services. In 2012, we expanded into the Midwest 
and West Coast with offices in Chicago, Cincinnati and 
 San Francisco. Our Capital Markets Corporate Banking group 
serves companies throughout the U.S. with annual revenues 
of $250 million or more. We have lending and investment 
banking expertise across a wide range of industries, including 
transportation, industrial, government information-technology 
services, energy, healthcare, consumer products, automotive 
aftermarket, agribusiness, foods and Real Estate Investment 
Trusts. Our expanded corporate banking activity also has 
served to accelerate our progress in diversifying BB&T™s 
balance sheet by adding more commercial and industrial loans 
to high-quality corporations across the nation. 
At the same time, BB&T™s specialized lending businesses 
focused on specific products are expanding their national-
scale businesses in areas including asset-based loans, direct 
consumer lending, leasing equipment ranging from rail to 
mining to corporate aircraft, and outdoor power equipment and 
recreation equipment finance. 
We are accelerating the growth of our business focused on 
clients seeking help in managing their wealth, an area we 
started building over the last decade. With an uncertain 
economy, there is a greater need for financial advice than ever 
before, and BB&T™s advisors are meeting that need with expert 
counsel in subjects ranging from retirement and investments 
 to inheritance and taxes. 
Overall, our investment in revenue growth is broad based. With 
an improving housing market, we expect steady improvement 
in residential real estate lending, with the most notable gains 
in Florida, Atlanta and some of the other markets hardest hit 
by the downturn over the last five years. We also are positioned 
to benefit from stabilization in commercial real estate, led by 
BB&T™s experienced and prudent lenders. We are ramping up 
our focus on loans to physicians, lawyers and other professional 
groups as well as on financing for auto dealerships.
BB&T now ranks as the ninth-largest U.S. bank in total 
deposits. More importantly, we are continuing to improve 
our deposit mix by aggressively managing down our deposit 
cost. Our cost of interest-bearing deposits decreased to 
 38 basis points for the fourth quarter compared with 56 basis 
points in the fourth quarter last year, which in turn benefits 
our net interest margin. We opened 34,000 net new retail 
deposit accounts in 2012. We are winning new clients with our 
accessible mobile banking services. 
Many corporate clients and prospects have 
 welcomed BB&T as a strong partner capable of providing 
 a broad suite of corporate banking services.
Broad-based Loan Growth
Improved Deposit Mix and Cost
Average Loans Held for Investment
Average Deposits
Total
Interest-Bearing Deposit Cost
2012 Annual Report
14OUR EXPANSION IN TEXAS
BB&T was barely known in Texas three years ago. No longer.
By mid-2013, BB&T commercial bankers will be meeting the 
needs of small and midsize Texas companies from 30 newly 
opened commercial-focused, full-service branches in four of 
the nation™s fastest-growing metro areas. In all, more than 400 
BB&T bankers in 60 branches will be delivering our Perfect 
Client Experience, up from 80 associates and 22 branches 
when we entered the Lone Star State™s banking market with 
the Colonial acquisition in 2009. In addition, 1,200 associates 
from other BB&T businesses already located in Texas Œ ranging 
 from insurance and commercial real estate finance to auto loans 
and capital markets Œ are spreading BB&T™s good name.
BB&T™s brand resonates well with can-do Texans. Our 
community bank model and long-held values are attracting new 
clients and associates alike. Clients who need decisions made 
quickly by local bankers, but want the range of products and 
services offered by one of the nation™s largest financial services 
companies, are attracted to our commitment to ﬁbe as big or 
small as you want us to be.ﬂ Businesses like the responsive client 
service, which includes, among other things, BB&T bankers 
sharing their cell numbers and returning the day™s calls by 
sundown. New hires immediately feel at home with the BB&T 
mission of giving back to our communities. 
Texas™ economy, the nation™s strongest, also is a perfect match 
for BB&T™s focus on fast-growing industries in healthcare, 
energy, manufacturing, commercial real estate, multi-family 
housing and more. Texas™ potential is as big as the state itself: 
Dallas, Houston, Austin and San Antonio Œ the four markets 
where BB&T is concentrating its new branches Œ are among the 
fastest-growing 20 metro areas in the country, each projected 
 to at least double in size over the next two decades. We are 
opening 11 new branches in the Dallas and in the Houston 
markets, and four each in Austin and San Antonio. 
Of Texas™ 26 million people, 18 million live in those four 
markets. ﬁWe™re banking the core of Texas,ﬂ says Kay St. 
John, president of BB&T™s North Texas region based in the 
 Dallas-Fort Worth metroplex. Consider the potential of just one 
of BB&T™s new markets in Addison, north of Dallas: Within two 
miles of our newly opened branch, there are more than 8,000 
businesses ranging in size from less than $1 million to more 
than $50 million in annual sales.
In Houston, which is expected to surpass Chicago as the nation™s 
third-largest city, BB&T™s energy group already has booked 
$1.3 billion in new commitments. Bill Toomey is based there as 
president of the South Texas region, which also encompasses 
Austin and San Antonio. Austin, home of the state capital and the 
University of Texas main campus, is a magnet for high-tech firms, 
nonprofits and international trade, among others. San Antonio 
 is a center for tourism, healthcare and multicultural firms. 
Texas also is an ideal market for offering products from BB&T™s 
non-banking businesses to our bank clients. Our wholesale 
and specialty insurance group serves clients with eight Texas 
offices and more than 450 associates, while new associates from 
the Crump Group already are offering life insurance products. 
 We offer extensive risk management capabilities in Houston 
through insurance subsidiary McGriff, Seibels & Williams. 
Grandbridge Real Estate Capital has offices in Dallas and 
Houston. Our auto loan subsidiary, Regional Acceptance 
Corporation, has a major call center in Arlington and offices in 
Plano, Houston and San Antonio with more than 200 associates. 
BB&T Wealth, Capital Markets and Corporate Banking 
 and Investments also offer their expertise from offices in Texas.
Our Texas expansion, while aggressive, also is fiscally 
conservative. All of our new branches are in existing buildings, 
allowing us to both open quickly and much more economically 
than building new branches. New branch construction typically 
takes a year or two at the cost of up to $5 million each. We are 
opening 30 branches, typically within three to four months, 
 at a total cost of less than $40 million. 
Our focus on commercial clients also is rooted in economics 
as well as market potential. Texas is one of the nation™s most 
competitive retail markets, home to more than 500 other banks. 
While BB&T™s retail market share has grown since our Colonial 
Top 12 Metro Areas in BB&T Footprint for Small to Medium Commercial Revenue
Growth Opportunities in Texas
Based on data from Oxxford Information Technology
BB&T is adding a total of 30 branches in these markets.
ﬁIt all comes down to honesty, loyalty and commitment. These are the attributes 
that drive our business and that™s what we found with BB&T.ﬂ
GARY WILSON
Partner, Wilson-Brown Productions, Inc., Austin, Texas
Jeff Brown and Gary Wilson needed a loan quickly to close their purchase of a new location for their television and web production company in 
Austin, Texas. But despite Wilson-Brown Productions™ 25-year track record of success, their current lender showed, in their words, a ﬁshockingﬂ lack of 
responsiveness. That™s when their real estate broker suggested they talk to a friend at BB&T, Business Services Of˚cer Blake Absher. ﬁWith other banks, 
it was ‚you come to our of˚ce.™ With Blake, it was ‚how soon can I come over to meet you?™ﬂ recalls Gary. ﬁFrom that point on, it was full speed ahead.ﬂ 
Blake delivered a commitment letter within three days and BB&T closed the transaction within 30 days. ﬁWe believed in the deal and shared their 
view that their new location in East Austin is an exciting, emerging market,ﬂ says Blake. His responsiveness and BB&T™s partnership with entrepreneurs 
like Jeff and Gary are typical of the bank™s approach to commercial banking in Austin and other robust Texas markets. ﬁWe are here not to sell, but to 
consult with our clients to meet all their needs,ﬂ says Austin City Executive Ed Lick. That ˚rst loan to Jeff and Gary has led to three other business and 
banking relationships for BB&T.
Left to right: Jeff Brown, Partner, Producer/Director, Wilson-Brown Productions, Inc.; Gary Wilson, Partner, Producer/Director, Wilson-Brown Productions, Inc.; 
 Ed Lick, Austin City Executive, BB&T; Blake Absher, Business Services Of˜cer, BB&T
CLIENTS
ﬁIt says something about BB&T™s culture when the bank says with its actions: 
‚We™re all in. We take ownership of where we live.™ﬂ
DAN VINCENT
President and CEO, Chapman Partnership
In Florida, among the states hardest hit by the ˚nancial crisis, the fastest-growing segment of the homeless population is families with children. 
With BB&T at its side, the Chapman Partnership in Miami-Dade County has responded with new services and dorms tailored for families, even 
a kennel for the family dog. The Partnership is also a national leader in ˚nding permanent, often non-subsidized housing for its residents by 
working closely with employers and landlords. A $100,000 contribution from BB&T pleasantly surprised the nonpro˚t, but the investment of 
time and talent has made the biggest impression. Among other things, BB&T associates have renovated dorms as part of the Lighthouse Project, 
served meals, coordinated gift-giving to the children, planned ˚nancial education courses and introduced Chapman to clients who have also 
become benefactors. Miami-Dade City Executive Rob Bowlby and his team won the Association of Fundraising Professionals Miami chapter™s 
top corporate citizenship award in 2012 even though BB&T is a relative newcomer to the market. Rob™s team supports more than 30 nonpro˚t 
organizations, ranging from South Florida Urban Ministries to the YMCA.
Left to right: Mario Alvarez, Chief Operating Of˜cer, Chapman Partnership; Trish Bell, Chairman of the Board of Directors, Chapman Partnership; Dan Vincent, President and CEO, 
Chapman Partnership; Holly Woodbury, Vice President, Development, Chapman Partnership; Rob Bowlby, Senior Vice President, City Executive, BB&T, Chapman Partnership 
Board Member; Laurie Zapletal, Vice President, Business Deposits Of˜cer, BB&T; Carlos Saballos, Sales and Service Of˜cer, BB&T, Chapman Partnership nextgen council 
COMMUNITIES
2012 Annual Report
17acquisition, we believe the best way to achieve needed retail scale 
is through acquisition. For now, retail acquisition prices are 
higher than what we are willing to invest, so we are moving ahead 
on the commercial front, where organic growth is very effective.
Make no mistake, BB&T is committed to the Texas market for 
the long-term, commercial for now and retail when acquisition 
prices return to levels that meet BB&T™s criteria of optimizing 
 a long-term return to shareholders. Already, as Kay St. John 
tells clients, BB&T stands for ﬁThe Best Bank in Texas.ﬂ
OUR DIVERSIFICATION IN INSURANCE
BB&T Insurance Services, the pacesetter for the highly 
successful diversification of our revenue sources, dramatically 
expanded its reach in 2012 with an acquisition that creates 
the nation™s largest independent wholesale distributor of life 
insurance and one of the largest providers of commercial 
insurance brokerage and specialty programs.
The acquisition of the life and property and casualty insurance 
divisions of Crump Group Œ which added $300 million to 
Insurance Services™ $1 billion in annual revenue Œ is the 
latest coup for a business that started humbly in 1922 and has 
grown into the world™s eighth-largest insurance broker in total 
revenue. BB&T Insurance offers our clients whatever protection 
they need, ranging from business and personal insurance 
 to corporate risk management to employee benefit plans.
Already contributing 14% of BB&T™s total revenues, BB&T 
Insurance is leading the way in another crucial arena: cross-
selling additional products and services to meet the broader needs 
of our clients. While we have long offered property and casualty 
insurance, the Crump acquisition achieved our long-standing 
objective of moving into life insurance in a big way. For example, 
now our relationship managers are offering the rich variety of life 
insurance products that Crump brings to help our wealth clients 
with their investment, tax planning and other needs.
Moreover, our added wholesale muscle allows BB&T to offer 
our services to the hundreds of thousands of independent retail 
insurance brokers, the dominant sales channel in insurance 
today. Add to that the many banks and other financial 
institutions that offer life insurance to their clients, but who turn 
to Crump, and its relationships with more than 100 life insurers, 
as their wholesaler because setting up their own comprehensive 
life insurance platform is too complex or expensive.
BB&T Insurance™s growth into a national business with more 
than 100 retail insurance agencies began the way most of our 
relationships start Œ meeting our clients™ needs. In Wilson, N.C., 
where BB&T was founded, the city™s primary agency went out 
 of business, so the bank stepped in at the request of local business 
owners. For the next 60-plus years, insurance remained mainly 
on the sidelines. Then, in the mid 1980s, when BB&T started 
more aggressively diversifying into non-interest fee businesses, 
BB&T Insurance was ready. Between 1990 and today, a string of 
acquisitions expanded our insurance revenues from $6 million 
to $1.3 billion, including Crump.
Scores of combinations with other firms that share BB&T™s 
commitment to client service Œ coupled with cutting-edge 
products such as online flood and supplemental unemployment 
insurance added in 2012 Œ have built a business that wins 
accolades from clients and independent sources alike. 
BB&T Insurance™s retail client retention rate averages 92%. 
 We consistently earn excellent client satisfaction awards for 
large corporate and middle-market insurance brokerages from 
Greenwich Associates. 
Business Insurance
 magazine has rated 
us the most productive of the world™s top insurance brokers 
 for eight consecutive years.
Our consistent performance in client service and financial 
performance is no surprise given the senior leadership team™s 
average tenure of 20 years with BB&T, headed by Chairman 
and CEO Wade Reece, a 35-year BB&T associate. With a 50-50 
 balance between retail and wholesale Œ retail led by BB&T 
veteran David Pruett and wholesale by former Crump CEO 
John Howard Œ and the support of our 6,400 associates, BB&T 
Insurance is proud to offer comprehensive, hands-on service to 
individuals and families, small business owners, Fortune 500 
companies and nonprofits across the country.
COMMUNITIES
Growing Insurance Commissions
BB&T Insurance offers our clients 
 whatever protection they need, ranging from 
business and personal insurance to corporate 
 risk management to employee benefit plans.
2012 Annual Report
18CONTINUE EXECUTION OF 
 RISK MANAGEMENT STRATEGIES
It is important to remember the causes of the deep recession that 
have gripped our industry and our country: too much leverage and 
too little diversification. Unfortunately, with signs of an improving 
economy, some banks appear to be forgetting that costly lesson, 
with excessively leveraged lending and higher-risk concentrations. 
At BB&T, even though we could easily double our loan growth with 
such actions, we are sticking with our disciplined lending strategy 
and conservative long-term underwriting standards. We believe 
there are ample opportunities to book loans that meet our rigorous 
risk guidelines, while avoiding those transactions that may provide 
 a short-term boost in revenue but a long-term drag on earnings.
For example, one area of opportunity is increasing demand for multi-
family housing development as more Americans opt for renting an 
apartment instead of buying a home. We are focusing on only those 
projects that meet our parameters for cash flow and solid cash 
equities. When the office market starts to recover, we will adhere 
 to our standards for pre-leases and good coverage ratios while 
avoiding large syndicated office towers. For all commercial real estate 
projects Œ an area that has been an excellent business for BB&T for 
decades Œ we rely only on experienced lenders who are specifically 
dedicated to understanding that market™s risk and rewards.
Over the last several years, BB&T has invested in analytical tools, 
talent and training to make sure we better understand risk. We have 
added Senior Risk Officers to help aggregate, integrate and correlate 
all risks of the company. We have created an independent Credit 
Risk Review program and a Consumer Risk Management function. 
We have streamlined and automated systems to provide improved 
financial information both internally and externally. 
At the same time, we are diversifying BB&T™s balance sheet. On the 
liability side, we have been working to improve our mix to emphasize 
noninterest-bearing deposits. On the asset side, we have significantly 
reduced our exposure to real estate, increasing commercial and industrial 
loans, and focusing on specialized lending opportunities yielding higher 
interest rates and margins. To diversify loan portfolio risk, we are 
exploring new strategic lending opportunities such as agriculture.
MAINTAIN EXPENSE DISCIPLINE
We believe that controlling what can be controlled is essential at all times, 
especially so in volatile or uncertain times. Expense control is a prime 
example. Throughout the last five difficult years and continuing in 2013, 
we have been and will be relentless in maintaining expense discipline.
Our tight budgeting is reflected in BB&T™s efficiency ratio, which 
measures expenses as a percentage of revenues, so lower percentages 
signal improved performance. Our ratio of 54.3% for 2012 is down 
from a year earlier, and compares very favorably with our peer 
average of 63.8%, which increased in 2012.
We decrease expenses wherever possible. Consistent with our 
improving credit quality, foreclosed property expenses are at the 
lowest level since 2007. With the completion of the BankAtlantic 
acquisition in 2012, we have reduced our merger-related and 
restructuring expenses. In 2013, we expect expenses independent 
 of immediately accretive revenue to be down by 1% to 2%.
Our wide-ranging ﬁre-conceptualization project,ﬂ where we 
challenged BB&T™s leaders to design more efficient ways to run their 
businesses, started showing results in 2012, with more to come in 
2013. For example, we have cut BB&T™s vendor payments for paper 
checks by 90% through automation.
As a result of our day-to-day tight management of discretionary 
expenses, BB&T avoids drastic cost-cutting programs. Those 
draconian cuts may win headlines, but they undermine a company™s 
relationship with their employees, and are contrary to the strong 
value proposition we have with our associates. 
Rather, to use a football analogy, we believe expense control is 
 a ﬁground gameﬂ rather than a ﬁHail Mary pass,ﬂ where we constantly 
look for opportunities to reduce expenses, especially those that do not 
create near-term revenue opportunities. For example, we only take on 
projects with quick payback periods, typically less than three years. We 
centralize, standardize and automate wherever possible. To effectively 
centralize sourcing and procurement, we arm BB&T™s business leaders 
with more detailed budgets as they plan and operate their businesses.
THANK YOU
In closing, I want to recognize and introduce some extraordinary 
individuals. Some have provided wise guidance to BB&T for many 
years, while others will help lead us as we build on our remarkable 
141-year history. 
We are matching the membership of the boards of BB&T and our 
largest subsidiary, Branch Banking and Trust Company, which will 
give us more flexibility and is in line with the structure of many of our 
peer banks. As part of that change, which was effective December 31, 
2012, the number of corporate directors was increased from 15 to 19 and 
the two boards will have identical memberships. At the same time, three 
members of the corporate board and three members of the bank board 
retired in accordance with our policy of directors retiring at age 70.
I want to express my deepest appreciation to our retired directors: 
J. Littleton Glover Jr., Jane P. Helm and Valeria Lynch Lee on the 
corporate board and Thomas K. Ferguson, Donald N. Patten and David 
W. Smith Jr. on the bank board. With a combined 74 years of service 
 as directors, they have contributed immensely to BB&T™s success.
I also would like to welcome seven new members of the corporate board, 
all from the Branch Banking and Trust board: James A. Faulkner, 
Dahlonega, Georgia; I. Patricia Henry, Stone Mountain, Georgia; Eric 
C. Kendrick, Arlington, Virginia; Louis B. Lynn, Columbia, South 
Carolina; Edward C. Milligan, Marietta, Georgia; Charles A. Patton, 
Hopewell, Virginia; and Tollie W. Rich Jr., Cape Coral, Florida.
Our lead director is Ronald E. Deal, who has served on BB&T™s board 
since 1986 and is chairman of Wesley Hall Inc. in Hickory, North 
Carolina. He replaced Jane Helm after her retirement.
Also in 2012, we added two members to BB&T™s Executive Management 
team. Cynthia Williams, chief corporate communications officer, 
and Rufus Yates, president and CEO of BB&T Securities (formerly 
Scott & Stringfellow) and manager of our Capital Markets Corporate 
Banking group, joined the 10 existing members on the team that sets 
policy and direction for BB&T. 
2012 Annual Report
19Standing left to right: Donna Goodrich, Clarke Starnes III, Ricky Brown, Kelly King, Chris Henson, Daryl Bible, Leon Wilson III
Seated left to right: Rufus Yates, Cynthia Williams, Barbara Duck, Rob Greene, Steve Wiggs
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT
Cynthia, who has 26 years of financial services experience, joined 
BB&T as part of the First Virginia Bank merger in 2003 and was 
promoted in 2011 to lead BB&T™s corporate advertising, marketing 
strategy, sports marketing and communications groups. A native 
 of Yokohama, Japan, she began her career in public accounting, 
and in banking has held positions in internal audit, retail bank 
sales and administration, regional branch operations and financial 
management.
Rufus, a 33-year banking veteran, joined BB&T as part of the 
Southern National merger in 1995. He served as a city executive 
and managed corporate banking activities before being tapped to 
lead BB&T Securities, which operates our Private Client Group and 
Capital Market activities. He also is responsible for our corporate 
banking, loan syndications and interest-rate derivative groups. 
 He is a native of Chadbourn in eastern North Carolina.
As testament to the long-term focus that characterizes BB&T, our 
Executive Management team has worked together and shared the 
same vision, mission and values for much of our careers. As a group, 
we have an average of 30 years of experience with BB&T.
That common commitment and continuity assures we will never forget 
our overriding responsibility to provide long-term opportunity for our 
clients, associates, communities and shareholders. We are committed 
to assuring the economic success and financial security of our clients 
who trust us with their long-term financial relationships. We are 
committed to the long-term success and happiness of our associates. We 
are committed to supporting the long-term needs of the communities 
we serve. And we are committed to working every day to optimize 
 a long-term return on our shareholders™ investment and loyalty.
At BB&T, we recognize that our lasting legacy is to make a positive 
meaningful difference in the lives of everyone we touch. With our 
highly focused leadership and strategies, the dedication of our 34,000 
associates and your continuing support, I am absolutely convinced 
that BB&T™s best days are ahead.
Kelly S. King
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
February 21, 2013
Daryl N. Bible
 Senior Executive Vice 
President and Chief 
Financial Of˜cer 
Ricky K. Brown
 Senior Executive Vice 
President and President, 
Community Banking
Barbara F. Duck
 Senior Executive Vice 
President and Enterprise 
Risk Manager
Donna C. Goodrich
 Senior Executive Vice 
President and Deposit 
Services Manager
 Robert E. Greene
 Senior Executive 
Vice President and 
Administrative 
 Group Manager 
Christopher L. Henson
 Chief Operating Of˜cer 
Kelly S. King
 Chairman and Chief 
Executive Of˜cer
Clarke R. Starnes III
 Senior Executive 
 Vice President and 
 Chief Risk Of˜cer
Steven B. Wiggs
 Senior Executive Vice 
President and Chief 
Marketing Of˜cer and 
Lending Group Manager
Cynthia A. Williams
 Senior Executive Vice 
President and Chief 
Corporate Communications 
Of˜cer
C. Leon Wilson III
 Senior Executive Vice 
President and Operations 
Division Manager
W. Rufus Yates
 Senior Executive Vice 
President and Capital 
Markets Manager
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT
2012 Annual Report
20Forward-Looking Statements
This 2012 Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements as de˜ned in 
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements may address 
issues that involve signi˜cant risks, uncertainties, estimates and assumptions made 
by management. Actual results may differ materially from current projections. 
 Please refer to BB&T™s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for 
 a summary of important factors that may affect BB&T™s forward-looking statements. 
BB&T undertakes no obligation to revise these statements following the date of this 
Annual Report.
CORPORATE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
John A. Allison IV
 President and CEO
 Cato Institute
 Retired Chairman and
 Chief Executive Of˜cer
 BB&T Corporation
 Winston-Salem, N.C.
Jennifer S. Banner
 Chief Executive Of˜cer
 Schaad Companies, LLC
 and President and CEO
 SchaadSource, LLC
 Knoxville, Tenn.
K. David Boyer, Jr.
 Chief Executive Of˜cer
 GlobalWatch 
 Technologies, Inc.
 Oakton, Va.
Anna R. Cablik
 President
 Anasteel & Supply 
Company, LLC and
 Anatek, Inc.
 Marietta, Ga.
Ronald E. Deal
 Chairman
 Wesley Hall, Inc.
 Hickory, N.C.
James A. Faulkner
 Retired CEO
 Century South Banks
 Dahlonega, Ga.
I. Patricia Henry
 Retired Director 
 of Strategic Projects
 Miller Brewing Co.
 Stone Mountain, Ga.
John P. Howe III, M.D.
 President and
 Chief Executive Of˜cer
 Project HOPE
 (Health Opportunities
 for People Everywhere)
 Washington, D.C.
Eric C. Kendrick
 President
 Mereck Associates, Inc.
 Arlington, Va.
Kelly S. King
 Chairman and
 Chief Executive Of˜cer
 BB&T Corporation
 Winston-Salem, N.C.
Louis B. Lynn
 President and Chief 
Executive Of˜cer
 ENVIRO AgScience, Inc.
 Columbia, S.C.
Edward C. Milligan
 Retired Chairman
 Main Street Banks, Inc.
 Marietta, Ga.
Charles A. Patton
 Consultant
 Former President and CEO
 Virginia First Savings Bank
 Hopewell, Va.
Nido R. Qubein
 President
 High Point University
 Chairman
 Great Harvest Bread Co.
 High Point, N.C.
Tollie W. Rich, Jr.
 Retired Chief 
 Operating Of˜cer
 Life Savings Bank
 Cape Coral, Fla.
Thomas E. Skains
 Chairman, President and 
Chief Executive Of˜cer
 Piedmont Natural
 Gas Company, Inc.
 Charlotte, N.C.
Thomas N. Thompson 
President
 Thompson Homes, Inc.
 Representative
 Kentucky House
 of Representatives
 Owensboro, Ky.
Edwin H. Welch, Ph.D.
 President
 University of Charleston 
 Charleston, W.Va.
Stephen T. Williams
 President and
 Chief Executive Of˜cer
 WilcoHess, LLC
 President
 A.T. Williams Oil Co.
 Winston-Salem, N.C.
Standing left to right: K. David Boyer, Jr., Jennifer S. Banner, John A. Allison IV, Edwin H. Welch, Ph.D., Kelly S. King, Eric C. Kendrick, Thomas E. Skains, I. Patricia Henry, Louis B. Lynn, Ronald E. Deal
Seated left to right: Stephen T. Williams, John P. Howe III, M.D., Tollie W. Rich, Jr., Nido R. Qubein, Anna R. Cablik, Thomas N. Thompson, Charles A. Patton, James A. Faulkner, Edward C. Milligan
CORPORATE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
  UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549   FORM 10-K    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) 
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012 
 Commission File Number: 1-10853  BB&T CORPORATION (Exact name of Registrant as
 specified in its Charter)
     North Carolina
 56-0939887
 (State of Incorporation)
 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
   200 West Second Street
 Winston-Salem, North Carolina
 27101
 (Address of principal executive offices)
 (Zip Code)
  (336) 733-2000 
 (Registrant™s telephone number, including area code)
   Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b
) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934:
   Title of each class
 Name of each exchange
 on which registered
 Common Stock, $5 par value 
New York Stock Exchange Depositary Shares each representing 1/1,000
th interest in a share of 
Series D Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock 
New York Stock Exchange Depositary Shares each representing 1/1,000
th interest in a share of 
Series E Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock 
New York Stock Exchange Depositary Shares each representing 1/1,000
th interest in a share of 
Series F Non-Cumulative Perpetual Pref
erred Stock New York Stock Exchange 
 Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned 
issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes 
 [X]   No  [  ] 
Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file
 reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.   
 Yes  [  ]   No  [X] 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all re
ports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Secu
rities Exchange Act of 
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that 
the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2)
 has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.     Yes  [X]   No  [  ] 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registra
nt has submitted electronically
 and posted on its corporate website, if any, every I
nteractive Data File 
required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of 
Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this 
chapter) during the preceding 12 m
onths (or for such shorter 
period that the Registrant was required to submit and 
post such files).     Yes  [X]   No  [  ] 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of de
linquent filers pursuan
t to Item 405 of Regulation S-K 
is not contained herein, and w
ill not be contained, to 
the best of Registrant™s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorpor
ated by references in Part III of thi
s Form 10-K or any amendment 
to this Form 10-K.    [  ] 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large acceler
ated filer, an accelerated file
r, a non-accelerated filer, or a
 smaller reporting company.  
See the definitions of ﬁlarge accelerated 
filer,ﬂ ﬁaccelerated filerﬂ and ﬁsmaller re
porting companyﬂ in Rule 12b-2 of the Exch
ange Act.  Large accelerated filer X  Accelerated filer  
Non-accelerated filer   (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) Smaller reporting company  
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (a
s defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).    Yes  [  ]   No  [X] 
At January 31, 2013, the Company had 699,826,132 shares of its Comm
on Stock, $5 par value, outstandi
ng.  As of June 30, 2012, t
he aggregate market 
value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of
 the Company was approximately $21.5 billion. 
  2  BB&T CORPORATION 
 Cross Reference Index 
December 31, 2012 
     Page No. PART I Item 1 
Business 
 6  Item 1A 
Risk Factors 
 19  
Item 1B 
Unresolved Staff Comments - (None to be reported.) 
  Item 2 
Properties 
 25  
Item 3 
Legal Proceedings (see Note 15.  Commitments and Contingencies) 
 121  
Item 4 
Mine Safety Disclosures - (Not applicable.) 
  PART II Item 5 
Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases 
of Equity Securities 
 25  
Item 6 
Selected Financial Data 
 29  
Item 7 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Fi
nancial Condition and Results of Operations 
 30  
Item 7A 
Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk (see Market Risk Management) 
 68  
Item 8 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 
   Consolidated Balance Sheets 
 80  
 Consolidated Statements of Income 
 81  
 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 
 82  
 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity 
 83  
 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
 84  
 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 85  
 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
 79  
 Quarterly Financial Summary 
 77  
Item 9 
Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure - 
(None to be reported) 
  Item 9A 
Controls and Procedures 
 78  
Item 9B 
Other Information - (None to be reported) 
  PART III 
Item 10 
Directors, Executive Officer
s and Corporate Governance 
 * Item 11 
Executive Compensation 
 * Item 12 
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder 
Matters  * Item 13 
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 
 * Item 14 
Principal Accounting Fees and Services 
 * PART IV Item 15 
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 
   Financial Statements - (see Listing in Item 8 above) 
   Exhibits 
 143  
 Financial Statement Schedules - (None required) 
    3     * For information regarding executive officers, refer to
 ﬁExecutive Officers of BB&Tﬂ in Part I.  The 
other information required by Item 10 is incorporat
ed herein by reference to the information that 
appears under the headings ﬁProposal 1-Election of
 Directors,ﬂ ﬁCorporate
 Governance Mattersﬂ and 
ﬁSection 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Comp
lianceﬂ in the Registrant
™s Proxy Statement for 
the 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. 
      The information required by Item 11 is incorporated 
herein by reference to the information that appears 
under the headings ﬁCompensation Discussion and Analysis,ﬂ ﬁCompensation of Executive Officers,ﬂ 
ﬁCompensation Committee Report on Executive Compensation,ﬂ ﬁCompensation Committee Interlocks 
and Insider Participationﬂ and ﬁCompensation of Directorsﬂ in the Registrant™s Proxy Statement for the 
2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. 
      For information regarding the registrant™s securities 
authorized for issuance under equity compensation 
plans, refer to ﬁEquity Compensation Plan Informationﬂ in Part II. 
      The other information required by Item 12 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that 
appears under the headings ﬁSecurity Ownershipﬂ 
and ﬁCompensation of Executive Officersﬂ in the 
Registrant™s Proxy Statement for the 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. 
       The information required by Item 13 is incorporated 
herein by reference to the information that appears 
under the headings ﬁCorporate Governance Mattersﬂ and ﬁTransactions with Executive Officers and 
Directorsﬂ in the Registrant™s
 Proxy Statement for the 2013 An
nual Meeting of Shareholders. 
      The information required by Item 14 is incorporated 
herein by reference to the information that appears 
under the headings ﬁFees to Auditorsﬂ and ﬁCorporate Governance Mattersﬂ in the Registrant™s Proxy 
Statement for the 2013 Annual
 Meeting of Shareholders. 
  4  Glossary of Defined Terms
 The following terms are used throughout this Report, includi
ng the consolidated financial statements and related notes. 
 Term  Definition
 2004 Plan 
 2004 Stock Incentive Plan  
2006 Repurchase Plan
  Plan for the repurchase of up to 50
 million shares of BB&T™s common stock 
2012 Plan
  2012 Incentive Plan  
ADC
  Acquisition, development and construction 
ACL 
 Allowance for credit losses 
ALLL  Allowance for loan and lease losses 
AOCI
  Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 
BankAtlantic
  BankAtlantic, a federal savings association acquired by BB&T from BankAtlantic Bancorp, Inc. 
Basel III  Global regulatory standards on bank capital 
adequacy and liquidity published by the BCBS 
BB&T  BB&T Corporation and subsidiaries 
BB&T FSB  BB&T Financial, FSB  
BCBS  Basel Committee on Bank Supervision 
BHC  Bank holding company 
BHCA  Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended 
Branch Bank
  Branch Banking and Trust Company  
CCAR
  Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review  
CD 
 Certificate of deposit 
CDI  Core deposit intangible assets 
CFPB  Consumer Financial Protection Bureau  
Colonial
  Collectively, certain assets and liabilities of Colonial Bank acquired by BB&T in 2009 
Company
  BB&T Corporation and subsidiaries (i
nterchangeable with "BB&T" above) 
Council  Financial Stability Oversight Council  
CRA
  Community Reinvestment Act of 1977  
CRE  Commercial real estate 
Crump Insurance
  The life and property and casualty insurance operations acquired from the Crump Group 
DIF  Deposit Insurance Fund administered by the FDIC 
Directors™ Plan  Non-Employee Directors™ Stock Option Plan  
Dodd-Frank Act  Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act  
EPS  Earnings per common share 
EU  European Union EVE  Economic value of equity  
Exchange Act
  Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended  
FASB  Financial Accounting Standards Board  
FDIC
  Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  
FHA  Federal Housing Administration 
FHLB  Federal Home Loan Bank  
FHLMC  Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation  
FINRA  Financial Industry Regulatory Authority  
FNMA  Federal National Mortgage Association  
FRB  Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
FTE  Fully taxable-equivalent  
FTP  Funds transfer pricing  
GAAP  Accounting principles generally accepted 
in the United States of America  
GNMA  Government National Mortgage Association  
Grandbridge
  Grandbridge Real Estate Capital, LLC  
GSE  U.S. government-sponsored enterprise  
IMLAFA  International Money Laundering Abatement and Financial Anti-Terrorism Act of 2001  
IPV  Independent price verification 
IRS 
 Internal Revenue Service 
LHFS  Loans held for sale 
LIBOR  London Interbank Offered Rate  
LOB  Line of business  
  5  Term  Definition
 MRLCC
  Market Risk, Liquidity and Capital Committee  
MSR
  Mortgage servicing right 
MSRB
  Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board 
NIM 
 Net interest margin 
NPA  Nonperforming asse
t NPL  Nonperforming loan  
NPR  Notice of P
roposed Rulemaking 
NYSE
  NYSE Euronext, Inc. 
OAS  Option adjusted spread  
OCC  Office of the Comptroller of the Currency  
OCI  Other comprehensive income (loss) 
Omnibus Plan
  1995 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan  
OREO  Other real estate owned  
OTS  Office of Thrift Supervision  
OTTI  Other-than-temporary impairment  
Parent Company  BB&T Corporation, the parent company of Branch Bank and other subsidiaries 
Patriot Act
  Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and 
Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 
Peer Group
  Financial holding companies included in the industry peer group index  
Reform Act
  Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005  
RMBS  Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities 
RMO
  Risk Management Organization  
RSU 
 Restricted stock unit 
RUFC 
 Reserve for unfunded lending commitments 
S&P  Standard & Poor's 
SBIC  Small Business Investment Company 
SCAP  Supervisory Capital Assessment Program  
SEC  Securities and Exchange Commission  
Simulation
  Interest Sensitivity Simulation Analysis  
TBA  To be announced 
TDR  Troubled debt restructuring 
U.S.
  United States of America 
U.S. Treasury
  United States Department of the Treasury  
VA  U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 
VaR
  Value-at-risk  
VIE  Variable interest entity 
Forward-Looking Statements 
 This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains ﬁforward-lookin
g statementsﬂ within the meaning of the Private Securities 
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, regarding the financial condition, results of operations, business plans and the future 
performance of BB&T that are based on the beliefs and assumptions of the management of BB&T and the information 
available to management at the time th
at these disclosures were prepared.  Wo
rds such as ﬁanticipates,ﬂ ﬁbelieves,ﬂ 
ﬁestimates,ﬂ ﬁexpects,ﬂ ﬁforecasts,ﬂ ﬁintends,ﬂ ﬁplans,ﬂ ﬁp
rojects,ﬂ ﬁmay,ﬂ ﬁwill,ﬂ ﬁshould,ﬂ ﬁcould,ﬂ and other similar 
expressions are intended to identify these 
forward-looking statements.  Such statemen
ts are subject to factors that could cause
 actual results to differ materially from anticipated results.  Such factors include, but are not limited to, the following:  
 general economic or business conditions, either nationally or
 regionally, may be less favo
rable than expected, resulting 
in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality 
and/or a reduced demand for credit or other services; 
 disruptions to the credit and financial markets, either nationa
lly or globally, including the impact of a downgrade of U.S. 
government obligations by one of the credit ratings agencies and the adverse effects of the ongoing sovereign debt crisis 
in Europe; 
 changes in the interest rate environmen
t and cash flow reassessments may reduce 
NIM and/or the volumes and values of 
loans made or held as well as the value of other financial assets held; 
 competitive pressures among depository and other financial institutions may increase significantly; 
  6   legislative, regulatory or accounting changes, including 
changes resulting from the adoption and implementation of the 
Dodd-Frank Act may adversely affect the businesses in which BB&T is engaged; 
 local, state or federal taxing authorities may take tax positions that are adverse to BB&T; 
 a reduction may occur in BB&T™s credit ratings; 
 adverse changes may occur in the securities markets; 
 competitors of BB&T may have greater financial resources and develop products that enable them to compete more 
successfully than BB&T and may be subject to
 different regulatory 
standards than BB&T; 
 natural or other disasters could have an adverse effect on BB&T in that such events could materially disrupt BB&T™s 
operations or the ability or willingness of BB&T™s cu
stomers to access the financial services BB&T offers; 
 costs or difficulties related to the integration of the busine
sses of BB&T and its merger partners may be greater than 
expected; 
 expected cost savings or revenue growth associated with completed mergers and acquisitions may not be fully realized or 
realized within the expected time frames; 
 deposit attrition, customer loss and/or revenue loss following
 completed mergers and acquisitions may be greater than 
expected; and 
 cyber-security risks, including ﬁdenial of service,ﬂ ﬁhacki
ngﬂ and ﬁidentity theft,ﬂ that could adversely affect our 
business and financial performance, or our reputation. 
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS 
 BB&T is a financial holding company headquartered in Wins
ton-Salem, North Carolina.  BB&T conducts its business 
operations primarily through its commercial bank subsidiary, Branch Bank, and other nonbank subsidiaries. 
Operating Subsidiaries 
 The principal operating subsidiaries
 of BB&T include the following:  
 Branch Banking and Trust Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina  
 BB&T Securities, LLC, Richmond, Virginia 
 Regional Acceptance Corporation,
 Greenville, North Carolina  
 American Coastal Insurance 
Company, Davie, Florida  
 Sterling Capital Management, LLC, Charlotte, North Carolina  
Branch Bank, BB&T™s largest subsidiary, was chartered in 1872 
and is the oldest bank headquartered in North Carolina.  
Branch Bank provides a wide range of banking and trust servi
ces for retail and commercial clients in its geographic markets, 
including small and mid-size businesses, public agencies, local
 governments and individuals, through 1,832 offices (as of 
December 31, 2012).  Branch Bank™s pr
incipal operating subsidiaries include: 
 BB&T Equipment Finance Corporation, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, which provides loan and lease financing 
to commercial and small businesses;  
 BB&T Investment Services, Inc., a regist
ered broker-dealer located in Charlotte
, North Carolina, which offers clients 
non-deposit investment alternatives, including discount broker
age services, equities, fixed-rate, variable-rate and index 
annuities, mutual funds, government and municipal bonds, and money market funds;  
 BB&T Insurance Services, Inc., headquarte
red in Raleigh, North Carolina, which 
offers property and casualty, life, 
health, employee benefits, commercial general liability, sure
ty, title and other insurance products through its agency 
network;  
  7   Prime Rate Premium Finance Corporation,
 Inc., located in Florence, South Carolina, and its subsidiary AFCO Credit 
Corporation, headquartered in Pittsburg
h, Pennsylvania, which provide insurance premium financing to clients in the 
United States and Canada;  
 Grandbridge, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, which specializes in arranging and servicing commercial mortgage 
loans;  
 Lendmark Financial Services, Inc., located in Covington, Georgia, which offers consumer loans to clients unable to 
meet Branch Bank™s normal cr
edit underwriting guidelines;  
 CRC Insurance Services, Inc., based in Birmingham, Alabama, 
which is a wholesale insurance broker authorized to do 
business nationwide;  
 McGriff, Seibels & Williams, Inc., based in Birmingham, Alab
ama, which is authorized to
 do business nationwide and 
specializes in providing insura
nce products on an agency basis to large commercial and energy clients, including many 
Fortune 500 companies; and   
 Crump Group, Inc., based in New Jersey, which is a wholesale insurance broker authorized to do business nationwide.  
BB&T FSB, based in Columbus, Georgia, was merged into Branch Bank effective January 1, 2013.  Sheffield Financial, 

based in Clemmons, North Carolina, specializes in loans to sm
all commercial lawn care busine
sses across the country for the 
purchase of outdoor power equipment and loans to individuals for power sport and leisure equipment.  Sheffield was a 

subsidiary of BB&T FSB and was also merged in
to Branch Bank effec
tive January 1, 2013.  
Major Nonbank Subsidiaries 
 BB&T also has a number of nonbank subsidiaries, including:  
 BB&T Securities, LLC was formed by the merger of Sc
ott & Stringfellow, LLC an
d Clearview Correspondent 
Services, LLC on January 1, 2013.  BB&T Securities is a 
registered investment banking and full-service brokerage 
firm that provides services in retail brokerage, equity an
d debt underwriting, investment advice, corporate finance and 
equity research; and facilitates the origin
ation, trading and distribution of fixed-
income securities and equity products 
in both the public and private capital markets.  It also has a public finance department that provides investment 

banking, financial advisory services and debt underwriting 
services to a variety of regional taxable and tax-exempt 
issuers.  BB&T Securities also provides
 correspondent clearing services to 
other broker-dealers 
and entities involved 
in the securities industry.  As a correspondent clearing firm, 
it provides clearing services to affiliated and unaffiliated 
broker-dealers;   Regional Acceptance Corporation, which specializes in indirect financing for consumer purchases of primarily mid-
model and late-model used automobiles;  
 American Coastal Insurance Company, 
an admitted Florida specialty insuran
ce company that underwrites property 
insurance risks for commercial condomini
um or cooperative associations; and  
 Sterling Capital Management, LLC, a registered investment advisor and the advisor to the Sterling Capital 
Management Funds and Sterling Capital Variable Insurance Funds, provides tailored investment management 
solutions to meet the specific needs and objectives of individual and institutional clients through a full range of 
investment strategies, including domestic and international e
quity, alternative investment products and strategies, and 
fixed income investing. 
Services  BB&T™s subsidiaries offer a variety of services targeted to reta
il and commercial clients.  BB&T™s objective is to offer client
s a full array of products to meet all their financial needs. 
   8   Retail Services: 
   
Commercial Services: 
   Asset management 
   
 Asset management 
   Automobile lending 
   
 Association services 
   Bankcard lending 
   
 Capital markets services 
   Consumer finance 
   
 Commercial deposit services 
   Home equity lending 
   
 Commercial finance 
   Home mortgage lending 
   
 Commercial middle market lending 
   Insurance 
   
 Commercial mortgage lending 
   Investment brokerage services 
   
 Institutional trust services 
   Mobile/online banking 
   
 Insurance 
   Payment solutions 
   
 Insurance premium finance 
   Retail deposit services 
   
 International banking services 
   Sales finance 
   
 Leasing    Small business lending 
   
 Merchant services 
   Wealth management/private banking 
   
 Mortgage warehouse lending 
       
 Payment solutions 
       
 Real estate lending 
       
 Supply chain management 
       
 Private equity investments 
  Market Area
               The following table reflects BB&T™s deposit ma
rket share and branch locations by state.
               Table 1 
BB&T Deposit Market Share and 
Branch Locations by State  
          Deposit
           % of
Market
  Number
         BB&T's
 Share
  of         Deposits (2) 
Rank (2)
  Branches (3)
   North Carolina (1) 
  23 
% 2nd 
 366  
 Virginia 
  20 
 4th 
 377  
 Florida 
  15 
 5th 
 328  
 Georgia 
  11 
 4th 
 164  
 Maryland 
  7  7th 
 129  
 South Carolina 
  6  3rd 
 116  
 West Virginia 
  5  1st 
 78  
 Kentucky 
  4  4th 
 88  
 Alabama 
  4  4th 
 87  
 Tennessee 
  3  6th 
 55  
 Texas 
  1  36th 
 30  
 Washington, D.C. 
  1  7th 
 12  
 (1) 
Excludes home office deposits. 
 (2) 
Source: FDIC.gov-data as of June 30, 2012. 
 (3) 
As of December 31, 2012.  Exclud
es two branches in Indiana. 
BB&T operates in markets that have a diverse employment base and primarily consist of manufacturing, general services, 
agricultural, wholesale/retail trade, technology, government 
and financial services.  Management strongly believes that 
BB&T™s community bank approach to providing client service is a competitive advantage that strengthens the Company™s 
ability to effectively provide financial products and services 
to businesses and individuals in its markets.  Furthermore, 
BB&T believes its current market area will support gr
owth in assets and deposits in the future. 
Competition
 The financial services industry is highly competitive, and dr
amatic change continues to occur in all aspects of BB&T™s 
business.  The ability of nonbank financial entities to provide
 services previously reserved for commercial banks has 
intensified competition.  BB&T™s subsidiaries compete actively w
ith national, regional and local financial services providers, 
  9  including banks, thrifts, securities dealers, mortgage banker
s, finance companies and insurance companies.  Competition 
among providers of financial products and services continues to increase, with consumers having the opportunity to select 
from a growing variety of traditional and nontraditional alternatives.  The industry continues to consolidate, which affects 

competition by eliminating some regional and local institutions, 
while strengthening the franchises of acquirers.  In addition,
 some financial services entities are still experiencing signifi
cant challenges as a result of the economic crisis, resulting in
 bank and thrift failures.  For additional information co
ncerning markets, BB&T™s competitive position and business 
strategies, and recent government interv
entions see ﬁMarket Areaﬂ above and ﬁGen
eral Business Developmentﬂ below. 
General Business Development  
BB&T is a regional financial holding company.  BB&T has maintained a long-term focus on a strategy that includes 
expanding and diversifying the BB&T franchise in terms of 
revenues, profitability and asset size.  This strategy has 
encompassed both organic growth and acquisitions of complementary banks and financial businesses.  During the 1990s and 
through the mid-2000s, BB&T™s growth resulted largely fro
m mergers and acquisitions as the economics of business 
combinations were compelling.  Since that time, BB&T has focused more on organic growth, but is well positioned for 
strategic opportunities. 
Merger and Acquisition Strategy 
 BB&T™s growth in business, profitability and market share ha
s historically been enhanced by strategic mergers and 
acquisitions.  Management intends to remain disciplined and focused with regard to future merger and acquisition 
opportunities.  BB&T will continue to assess bank and thrift
 acquisitions subject to market conditions, primarily within 
BB&T™s existing footprint, and 
will pursue economically advantageous acquisitions of insurance agencies, specialized 
lending businesses, and fee income generating financial services businesses.  BB&T™s strategy is currently focused on 

meeting the following three acquisition criteria:  
 transactions must be strategically attractive Œ meaning 
that any bank acquisition should be in BB&T™s existing 
footprint to allow for cost savings and economies of scale, or in contiguous states to provide market diversification;  
 any credit-related issues would need to be addressed; and 
 acquisitions must meet BB&T™s financial criteria. 
Regulatory Considerations 
 The following discussion describes elements of an extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs, financial holding 
companies and banks and specific information about BB&T.  Regulation of banks, BHCs and financial holding companies is 
intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the DIF an
d the stability of the financial system, rather than for the 
protection of shareholders and creditors.  As described in more detail below, comprehensive reform of the legislative and 

regulatory landscape occurred with the passage of the Dodd-Fr
ank Act in 2010.  Implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act and 
related rulemaking activities continued in 2012.  In addition to
 banking laws, regulations and regulatory agencies, BB&T is 
subject to various other laws, regulations, supervision and examination by other regulatory agencies, all of which directly or 

indirectly affect the operations and management of BB&
T and its ability to make distributions to shareholders. 
BB&T™s earnings are affected by general economic conditions, management policies, changes in state and federal laws and 
regulations and actions of various regulatory authorities, including
 those referred to in this section.  Proposals to change th
e laws and regulations to which BB&T is subject are frequently introduced at both the federal and state levels.  The likelihood 
and timing of any such changes and the impact such changes may have on BB&T is impossible to determine with any 
certainty.  The description herein summarizes the significant state and federal laws to which BB&T currently is subject.  To 

the extent statutory or regulatory provisions are described in 
this section, such descriptions
 are qualified in their entirety 
by 
reference to the particular statutory or regulatory provisions. 
Financial Regulatory Reform 
 The past two years have resulted in a si
gnificant increase in regulation and regulato
ry oversight for U.S. financial services 
firms, primarily resulting from the Dodd-Frank Act.  The D
odd-Frank Act is extensive, complicated and comprehensive 
legislation that impacts practically all aspects of a banking organization, representing a significant overhaul of many aspects
 of the regulation of the financial services industry.  The Dodd-Frank Act implements numerous and far-reaching changes that 
affect financial companies, including banks and BHCs such as BB&T, by, among other things: 
  10 
  Requiring regulation and oversight of large, systemically
 important financial institutions by establishing an 
interagency council on systemic risk and implementation of heightened prudential standards and regulation by the 
FRB for systemically important financial institutions (including nonbank financial companies), as well as the 

implementation of the FDIC resolution procedures for liquidation of large financial companies to avoid market 
disruption; 
 applying the same leverage and risk-based capital requirem
ents that apply to insured depository institutions to most 
BHCs, savings and loan holding co
mpanies and systemically important
 nonbank financial companies; 
 limiting the FRB™s emergency authority to lend to nondepos
itory institutions to facilities with broad-based eligibility, 
and authorizing the FDIC to establish an emergency financia
l stabilization fund for solvent depository institutions and 
their holding companies, subject to the approval of Cong
ress, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury and the FRB; 
 centralizing responsibility for consumer financial protectio
n by creating a new independent agency, the CFPB, with 
responsibility for implementing, enforcing and examining compliance with federal consumer financial laws; 
 creating regimes for regulation of over-the-counter derivatives and non-admitted property and casualty insurers and 
reinsurers; 
 requiring any interchange transaction fee charged for a deb
it transaction be ﬁreasonableﬂ an
d proportional to the cost 
incurred by the issuer for the transaction, with new regulati
ons that establish such fee standards, eliminate exclusivity 
arrangements between issuers and networks for debit card tran
sactions and limit restrictions on merchant discounting 
for use of certain payment forms and minimum or maximum 
amount thresholds as a condition for acceptance of credit 
cards; 
 transferring the functions of the OTS relating to federal 
savings associations, including rulemaking authority, to the 
OCC;  implementing regulation of hedge fund and private equity advisers by requiring such advisers to register with the SEC; 
 providing for the implementation of certain corporate governance provisions for all public companies concerning 
executive compensation; 
 increasing the FDIC™s deposit insurance limits permanently to
 $250,000 for non-transaction accounts and changing the 
assessment base as well as increasing the reserve ratio for 
the DIF to ensure the future strength of the DIF; and 
 reforming regulation of credit rating agencies. 
Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject to further rulemaking, guidance and interpretation by the 

applicable federal regulators.  BB&T will co
ntinue to evaluate the impact of any new regulations so promulgated, including 
changes in regulatory costs and fees, modifications to consumer products or disclosures required by the CFPB and the 

requirements of the enhanced supervision provisions, among others.   
As a BHC and a financial holding company under federal law, BB&T is subject to regulation under the BHCA and the 
examination and reporting requirements 
of the FRB.  Branch Bank, a state-chartered commercial bank, is subject to 
regulation, supervision and examination by the North Carolina Commissioner of Banks and the FDIC.   
State and federal law govern the activities in which Branch Bank
 engages, the investments it makes and the aggregate amount 
of loans that may be granted to one borrower.  Various consumer and compliance laws and regulations also affect its 
operations.  Branch Bank also is affected by the actions of the FRB as it attempts to control the monetary supply and credit 
availability in order to influence the economy. 
In addition to federal and state banking laws and regulations, 
BB&T and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates, including 
those that engage in securities underwritin
g, dealing, brokerage, investment adviso
ry and insurance activities, are subject to 
other federal and state laws and regulations, and supervision and examination by other state and federal regulatory agencies 
and other regulatory authorities, including the SEC, FINRA, 
NYSE, and various state insurance and securities regulators. 
Financial Holding Company Regulation 
 Under current federal law, a BHC, such as BB&T, may elect 
to become a financial holding company, which allows the 
holding company to offer customers virtually any type of service that is financial in nature or incidental thereto, including 
  11 
 banking and activities closely related thereto, securities un
derwriting, insurance (both underwriting and agency) and 
merchant banking.  In order to qualify and maintain its status as a financial holding company, a financial holding company 
and all of its affiliated depository institutions must be well-
capitalized, well-managed, and have at least a satisfactory CRA 
rating.  If the FRB determines that a financial holding company is not well-capitalized or well-managed, the company has a 
period of time to comply, but during the 
period of noncompliance, the FRB can place 
any limitations on the financial holding 
company that it believes to be appropriate.  Furthermore, if
 the FRB determines that a financial holding company has not 
maintained a satisfactory CRA rating, the company will not be
 able to commence any new financial activities or acquire a 
company that engages in such activities, although the company 
will still be allowed to engage in activities closely related to 
banking and make investments in the ordinary course of conducting merchant banking activities.  BB&T is a financial 
holding company and currently satisfies the requirements to maintain its status as a financial holding company. 
Most of the financial activities that are permissible for financial holding companies also are permissible for a bank™s 
ﬁfinancial subsidiary,ﬂ except for insurance underwriting, insu
rance company portfolio investments, real estate investments 
and development, and merchant banking, which must be conducte
d in a financial holding company.  In order for permissible 
financial activities to be engaged in by a financial subsidiary of
 a bank, federal law requires th
e parent bank (and its sister
-bank affiliates) to be well-capitalized and well-managed; the ag
gregate consolidated assets of all of that bank™s financial 
subsidiaries may not exceed the lesser of 45% of its consolidated
 total assets or $50 billion; the bank must have at least a 
satisfactory CRA rating; and, if that bank is one of the 100 
largest national banks, it must meet certain financial rating or 
other comparable requirements. 
Current federal law also establishes a system of functional regulation under which the FRB is the umbrella regulator for 
BHCs, but BHC affiliates are principally regulated by functiona
l regulators such as the FDIC for state nonmember bank 
affiliates, the OCC for thrifts, the SEC 
for securities affiliates and 
state insurance regulators for insurance affiliates.  Ce
rtain specific activities, including traditional bank trust and fiduciary activities may be conducted in the bank without the bank 

being deemed a ﬁbrokerﬂ or a ﬁdealerﬂ in securities for purpose
s of functional regulation.  Although states generally must 
regulate bank insurance activities in a nondiscriminatory manner, states may continue to adopt and enforce rules that 
specifically regulate bank insurance activities in certain identifiable areas. 
The Dodd-Frank Act establishes additional regulation for BH
Cs, which will generally apply to BB&T.  The Council is 
required under the Dodd-Frank Act to monitor emerging risks to financial stability, recommend heightened prudential 
standards for large, interconnected financial companies and requi
re certain nonbank financial companies to be supervised by 
the FRB if their activities are determined to pose a risk to financial stability. 
The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes new prudential regulation on de
pository institutions and their holding companies.  The law 
imposes new, more stringent standards and requirements with respect to (1) bank and nonbank acquisitions and mergers, (2) 
financial holding companies engaged in ﬁf
inancial activities,ﬂ (3) affiliate transact
ions and (4) proprietary trading, among 
other provisions. 
Enhanced Supervision Standards for Systemically Important Financial Institutions
 The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FRB to establish enhanced supervision and prudential standards applicable to large, 
interconnected financial institutions, including BHCs like BB&T, w
ith total consolidated assets of $50 billion or more (often 
referred to as systemically im
portant financial institutions).  The Council may make recommendations to the FRB on those 
standards.  The Dodd-Frank Act mandates that the requirements 
applicable to systemically important financial institutions be 
more stringent than those applicable to other financial companies.   
Resolution Planning
 In September 2011, the FDIC adopted rules implementing ﬁlivi
ng willﬂ requirements for systemically important financial 
institutions such as BB&T.  These requirements impose obligatio
ns on systemically important financial institutions to file, 
maintain and update plans for an institution™s rapid and orderly resolution in the event of its material financial distress or 
failure.  Both the FRB and the FDIC must review and approve
 BB&T™s living will and are authorized to impose restrictions 
on BB&T™s growth and activities or operations
 if deemed necessary.  BB&T™s initial pl
ans are expected to be submitted to 
the FRB and the FDIC in December 2013.  Following the initial submission, BB&T is required to submit annual resolution 
plans by July 1 of each subsequent year. 
CCAR and Stress Test Requirements
 In November 2011, the FRB published a final rule requirin
g BHCs such as BB&T with $50 billion or more of total 
consolidated assets to submit annual cap
ital plans based on pre-defined stress scenarios.  Capital plans are required to be 
submitted on an annual basis.  Such BHCs will also be required 
to collect and report certain re
lated data on a quarterly basis 
  12 
 to allow the FRB to monitor the companies™ progress against their annual capital plans.  Covered BHCs, including BB&T, 
may pay dividends and repurchase stock only in accordance with
 a capital plan that has been 
reviewed by the FRB and as to 
which the FRB has not objected.  The rules also require, among other things, that a covered BHC may not make a capital 
distribution unless, after giving effect to the distribution, it 
will meet all minimum regulatory capital ratios and have a rat
io of 
Basel I Tier 1 common capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 5%.  BB&T submitted its capital plan to the FRB for 2012 

and thereafter received notice that
 the FRB had no objections to the capital plan
.  BB&T submitted its 2013 capital plan for 
review in January 2013. 
In addition to the CCAR process, the Dodd-Frank Act require
s the FRB to conduct an annual supervisory stress test for 
BHCs such as BB&T with $50 billion or more of total conso
lidated assets and to conduct semi-annual company-run stress 
tests.  In October 2012, the FRB adopted final stress testing ru
les for covered BHCs that describe the types of supervisory 
scenarios that may be provided in c
onnection with the annual CCAR process, 
and require that BB&T (as well as other 
covered BHCs) conduct a separate mid-year stress test, file the re
sults of such test with the FRB in early July and publicly 
disclose details of the scenario and the im
pact on BHC capital by the end of Septembe
r of each year.  These stress test rules 
became effective for BB&
T in November 2012. 
The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the FDIC
 to conduct an annual supervisory stress test for FDIC-insured state nonmember 
banks such as Branch Bank with $50 billion or more of total 
consolidated assets and requires such institutions to conduct 
annual company-run stress tests. The FDIC adopted 
final annual stress testing rules in October 2012. 
OCC Prior to January 1, 2013, BB&T FSB, as a 
federally chartered thrift, was subject to
 regulation, supervision and examination 
by the OCC.  Effective January 1, 2013, BB&T FSB was merged in
to Branch Bank and no longer
 exists as a separate entity 
and, therefore, is no long
er regulated by the OCC. 
Acquisitions 
 BB&T complies with numerous laws related to its acquisiti
on activity.  Under the BHCA, a BHC may not directly or 
indirectly acquire ownership or control of more than 5% of the 
voting shares or substantially all of the assets of any BHC or 
bank or merge or consolidate with another BHC without the pr
ior approval of the FRB.  Current federal law authorizes 
interstate acquisitions of banks and BHCs without geographic limitation.  Furthermore, a bank headquartered in one state is 
authorized to merge with a bank headquartered in another state,
 subject to any state requiremen
t that the target bank shall 
have been in existence and operating for a minimum period of time, not to exceed five years; and subject to certain deposit 
market-share limitations.  After a bank has established branches 
in a state through an interstate merger transaction, the bank 
may establish and acquire additional branches
 at any location in the state where a bank
 headquartered in that state could have 
established or acquired branches under applicable federal or st
ate law.  These regulatory cons
iderations are applicable to 
privately negotiated acquisition transactions. 
Other Safety and Soundness Regulations 
 The FRB has enforcement powers 
over BHCs and their nonbanking subsidiaries.  The FRB has authority to prohibit activities 
that represent unsafe or unsound practices 
or constitute violations of law, rule, 
regulation, administrative order or written 
agreement with a federal regulator.  These powers may be ex
ercised through the issuance of cease and desist orders, civil 
money penalties or other actions. 
There also are a number of obligations and restrictions impos
ed on BHCs and their depository institution subsidiaries by 
federal law and regulatory policy that are designed to reduce po
tential loss exposure to the depositors of such depository 
institutions and to the FDIC insurance fund in the event the depository institution is insolvent or is in danger of becoming 
insolvent.  For example, under 
requirements of the FRB with respect to BHC 
operations, a BHC is required to serve as a 
source of financial strength to its subsidiary depository in
stitutions and to commit financial resources to support such 
institutions in circumstances where it might 
not do so otherwise.  In 
addition, the ﬁcross-guaranteeﬂ provisions of federal law
 require insured depository institutions under common control to
 reimburse the FDIC for any loss suffered or reasonably 
anticipated by the DIF as a result of the insolvency of co
mmonly controlled insured depository institutions or for any 
assistance provided by the FDIC to commonly controlled insured depository institutions in danger of failure.  The FDIC may 

decline to enforce the cross-guarantee provisi
on if it determines that a waiver is in the best interests of the DIF.  The FDIC™
s claim for reimbursement under the cross-guara
ntee provisions is superior to claims of shareholders of the insured depository 
institution or its holding company but is subordinate to claims
 of depositors, secured creditors and nonaffiliated holders of 
subordinated debt of the commonly controlled insured depository institution. 
  13 
 Federal and state banking regulators also have broad enforcement powers over Branch Bank, including the power to impose 
fines and other civil and criminal penalties, and to appoint a co
nservator (with the approval of the Governor in the case of a 
North Carolina state bank) in order to conserve the assets of any such institution for the benefit of depositors and other 
creditors.  The North Carolina Co
mmissioner of Banks also has the authority to 
take possession of a North Carolina state 
bank in certain circumstances, including, 
among other things, when it appears that such bank has violated its charter or any 
applicable laws, is conducting its business in an unauthorized 
or unsafe manner, is in an unsafe or unsound condition to 
transact its business or has an impairment of its capital stock. 
Payment of Dividends; Capital Requirements 
 The Parent Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from 
Branch Bank and its subsidiaries.  The majority of the Parent 
Company™s revenue is from dividends paid by Branch Bank.  Branch Bank is subject to laws and regulations that limit the 
amount of dividends it can pay.  In addition, BB&T and Branch Ba
nk are subject to various regula
tory restrictions relating to 
the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain 
capital at or above regulatory 
minimums, and to remain ﬁwell-
capitalizedﬂ under the prompt corr
ective action regulations summari
zed elsewhere in this section.  Federal banking regulators 
have indicated that banking organizations should generally pay 
dividends only if (1) the organization™s net income available 
to common shareholders over the past year has been sufficient to fully fund the dividends and (2) the prospective rate of 
earnings retention appears consistent with
 the organization™s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition.  
BB&T™s 2013 capital actions will depend on the FR
B™s review of BB&T™s 2013 capital plan.   
North Carolina law states that, provided a bank does not make
 distributions that reduce its capital below its applicable 
required capital, the board of directors of a bank chartered under the laws of North Carolina may declare such distributions as
 the directors deem proper.  
The FRB and the FDIC have issued substantially similar risk-based and leverage capital guidelines applicable to banking 
organizations they supervise, including BHCs and banks.  Under the current risk-based capital requirements, BB&T and 
Branch Bank are each generally required to maintain a minimu
m ratio of total capital to risk-weighted assets (including 
certain off-balance sheet activities, such as standby letters of 
credit) of 8%.  At least half of the total capital must be 
composed of common shareholders™ equity excluding the over or underfunded status of postretirement benefit obligations, 

unrealized gains or losses on debt securities available for sa
le, unrealized gains on equity securities available for sale and 
unrealized gains or losses on cash flow hedges, net of defe
rred income taxes; plus certain mandatorily redeemable capital 
securities; less nonqualifying intangible assets net of applic
able deferred income taxes and certain nonfinancial equity 
investments.  This is called ﬁTier 1 capital.ﬂ The remainder may 
consist of qualifying subordinated debt, qualifying preferred 
stock and a limited amount of the ACL.  This is called ﬁTier 2 capital.ﬂ Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital combined are referre
d to as total regulatory capital. 
The FRB requires BHCs that engage in trading activities to adjust
 their risk-based capital ratios to take into consideration 
market risks that may result from movements in market prices 
of covered trading positions in
 trading accounts, or from 
foreign exchange or commodity positions, wh
ether or not in trading accounts, includin
g changes in interest rates, equity 
prices, foreign exchange rates or commod
ity prices.  Any capital required to be maintained under these provisions may 
consist of ﬁTier 3 capitalﬂ consisting of
 forms of short-term subordinated debt. 
The FRB and the FDIC also have established minimum leverage capital requirements for banking organizations.  These 
requirements provide that banking organiza
tions that meet certain criteria, including excellent asset quality, high liquidity, 
low interest rate exposure and good earnings, and that have 
received the highest regulatory ra
ting must maintain a ratio of 
Tier 1 capital to total adjusted average assets of at least 3%
.  Institutions not meeting these criteria, as well as institutio
ns with 
supervisory, financial or operational weaknesses, are expected to
 maintain a minimum Tier 1 capital to total adjusted average 
assets ratio at least 100 basis points above that stated minimum.  BHCs experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions 

are expected to maintain strong capital positions substantia
lly above the minimum supervisory levels without significant 
reliance on intangible assets.  The FRB also continues to consider a ﬁtangible Tier 1 capital leverage ratioﬂ (deducting all 
intangibles) and other indicators of capital strength in evaluating proposals for expansion or new activity. 
In addition, the FRB and the FDIC have adopted risk-based cap
ital standards that explicitly identify concentrations of credit 
risk and the risk arising from non-traditio
nal activities, as well as an institution™s ability to manage these risks, as import
ant 
factors to be taken into account by each 
agency in assessing an institution™s overall capital adequacy.  The capital guidelines
 also provide that an institution™s exposure to a decline in the economic value of its capital due to changes in interest rates 
be 
considered by the agency as a factor in evaluating a banking
 organization™s capital adequacy. 
 The agencies also require 
banks and BHCs to adjust their regulatory capital to take in
to consideration the risk asso
ciated with certain recourse 
obligations, direct credit subsidies, residual interest and ot
her positions in securitized transactions that expose banking 
organizations to credit risk. 
  14 
 As part of the Dodd-Frank Act, provisions were added that 
require federal banking agencies to develop capital requirements, 
which are discussed in more detail below.
  The effect of these capital rules w
ill disallow trust preferred securities from 
inclusion as Tier 1 capital at the holding company level for en
tities with greater than $15 billi
on in assets with a three-year
 phase-in period beginning on January 1, 2013. 
Information related to certain capital ratios is shown in the following table. 
 Table 2
Capital Adequacy Ratios 
December 31, 2012 
        Regulatory 
                       Minimums 
           Branch 
      Regulatory
to be Well- 
   Branch 
 BB&T 
 Bank 
      Minimums
Capitalized 
BB&T 
Bank 
 FSB 
 Proforma (1)
  Risk-based capital ratios: 
                       Tier 1 common capital  
 N/A  N/A   9.3 
%  9.3 
%    23.6 
%    9.7 
%   Tier 1 capital 
  4.0 
   6.0 
   11.0 
   11.6 
    23.6 
    12.0 
    Total risk-based capital 
  8.0 
   10.0 
   13.9 
   13.4 
    24.9 
    13.8 
   Tier 1 leverage capital ratio 
  3.0 
   5.0 
   8.2 
   8.6 
    22.8 
    8.9 
  (1) 
Represents the proforma combined cap
ital ratios of Branch Bank and BB&T FSB 
as if the two entities had been merged 
on December 31, 2012. 
The federal banking agencies, including the FRB and the FDIC, ar
e required to take ﬁprompt corr
ective actionﬂ in respect of 
depository institutions and their BHCs that do not meet minimum capital requirements.  The law establishes five capital 

categories for insured depository institutions for this
 purpose: ﬁwell-capitalized,ﬂ ﬁadequately capitalized,ﬂ 
ﬁundercapitalized,ﬂ ﬁsignificantly undercap
italizedﬂ and ﬁcritically undercapitalized.ﬂ
  To be considered ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ 
under these standards, an institution must maintain a total risk
-based capital ratio of 10% or greater; a Tier 1 risk-based 
capital ratio of 6% or greater; a leverage capital ratio of 5%
 or greater; and must not be subject to any order or written 
directive to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure. 
Federal law also requires the bank regulatory agencies to im
plement systems for ﬁprompt corrective actionﬂ for institutions 
that fail to meet minimum capital requirements within the five ca
pital categories, with progressive
ly more severe restrictions 
on operations, management and capital dist
ributions according to the category in whic
h an institution is placed.  Failure to 
meet capital requirements also may cause an institution to be dir
ected to raise additional capital.  Federal law also mandates 
that the agencies adopt safety and soundness standards generally relating to operations and management, asset quality and 
executive compensation, and authorizes administrative action against an institution that fails to meet such standards. 
In addition to the ﬁprompt corrective actionﬂ directives, failur
e to meet capital guidelines may subject a banking organization
 to a variety of other enforcement remedies, including additi
onal substantial restrictions on its operations and activities, 
termination of deposit insurance by the 
FDIC and, under certain co
nditions, the appointment of 
a conservator or receiver. 
Basel III In 2010, the Group of Governors and Heads of Supervisor
s of the BCBS, the oversight body of the Basel Committee, 
published Basel III.  Under these standards, when fully pha
sed in, banking institutions will be required to maintain 
heightened Tier 1 common equity, Tier 1 capital and total 
capital ratios, as well as maintaining a ﬁcapital conservation 
buffer.ﬂ  As proposed, Basel III provides for the Tier 1 common 
equity and Tier 1 capital ratio requirements to be phased in 
incrementally between January 1, 2013 and January 1, 2015; th
e deductions from common equity made in calculating Tier 1 
common equity (for example, for mortgage servicing assets, deferred tax assets and investments in unconsolidated financial 
institutions) to be phased in incrementally over a four-year
 period commencing on January 1, 2014; and the capital 
conservation buffer to be phased in incrementally between Ja
nuary 1, 2016 and January 1, 2019.  The BCBS also announced 
that a ﬁcountercyclical bufferﬂ of 0% to 2.5% of common e
quity or other fully loss-absorbing capital ﬁwill be implemented 
according to national circumstancesﬂ as an ﬁextensionﬂ of the 
conservation buffer.  The final 
package of Basel III reforms 
were approved by the G20 leaders in November 2010 and are subject to individual adoption by member nations, including 
the United States. 
U.S.  Implementation of Basel III 
In June 2012, the FRB, FDIC, and OCC issu
ed a joint release announci
ng three separate NPRs seeking comment on proposed 
rules that would revise and replace their current capital rules in
 a manner consistent with relevant provisions of the Dodd-
  15 
 Frank Act as well as the implementation of Basel III.  The comme
nt period on these NPRs ended on October 22, 2012.  Also 
in June 2012, these agencies announced the finalization 
of their market risk capital rule proposed in 2011. 
One NPR proposes the majority of the revisions to internationa
l capital standards in Basel III,
 including a more restrictive 
definition of regulatory capital, higher minimum regulatory 
capital requirements, and the imposition of capital conservation 
and countercyclical capital buffers.  It also proposes limitations
 on certain distributions and discretionary bonuses as well a
s revisions to the agencies™ prompt corrective action regulations.  Another NPR proposes new methodologies for determining 
risk-weighted assets, such as by expanding the number and type of exposure categories, providing a more comprehensive 
recognition of collateral and guarantees, and introducing or a
pplying more risk-sensitive treatment for certain exposures 
(including certain high-volatility CRE, corpor
ate, equity, foreign, securitization, derivative, residential mortgage, and 90 da
y or more past due exposures).  It also proposes detailed qua
litative and quantitative public disclosure requirements relating to
 capital adequacy.  The final NPR proposes to revise the current 
advanced approaches risk-based
 capital rule to incorporate 
certain aspects of Basel III as well as certain other revision
s to the Basel capital framework published by the BCBS between 
2009 and 2011.  While BB&T and Branch Bank would be subject to the first two NPRs, they would not be subject to the 

third NPR. 
While Basel III is intended to be implemented on a global basis beginning January 1, 2013, to be fully-phased in by January 
1, 2019, on November 9, 2012 the FRB, FDIC, and OCC issued
 a joint release announcing that the implementation of the 
proposed rules under Basel III in the U.S. would be delayed. 
New Minimum Capital Requirements 
While uncertainty exists regarding the timing for adoption of th
e foregoing revised capital stan
dards, if such capital standard
s are adopted in their current form, we estimate these standards would have a negligible impact on our ability to comply with 
the revised regulatory capital ratios base
d on our current understanding of the revisions to capital qualification.  Once 
adopted, banking organizations such as BB&T would be required to meet the following minimum capital and leverage ratios 
Œ 3.5% common equity Tier 1 capital to risk weighted assets, 4.
5% Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets, 8.0% total capital to
 risk-weighted assets and 4% Tier 1 capital to average consolidated assets minus amounts deducted from Tier 1 capital.  The 

implementation of a capital conservation buffer, effectively ra
ising the minimum capital requirements, will begin on January 
1, 2016, at 0.625% of common equity to risk-weighted assets and be phased-in over a four-year period (increasing by that 
amount on each subsequent January 1, until 
it reaches 2.5% on 
January 1, 2019). 
When fully phased-in, the Basel III capital framework will requ
ire BB&T and Branch Bank to maintain:  (1) a minimum ratio 
of common equity Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus the 2.5% capital conservation buffer; (2) a Tier
 1 capital to risk-weighted assets ratio of at least 6%, plus th
e 2.5% capital conservation buffer; (3) a minimum ratio of total
 (that is, Tier 1 plus Tier 2) capital to risk-weighted assets 
of at least 8.0%, plus the 2.5% capital conservation buffer; and 
(4) a 
minimum leverage capital ratio of 4%, calculated as the ratio of
 Tier 1 capital to average cons
olidated assets minus amounts 
deducted from Tier 1 capital.  Thus, when the capital conser
vation buffer is fully phased-in, 
minimum ratios will effectively 
be: 7% for Tier 1 common equity, 8.5% for Tier 1 capital, and 10.5% for total capital, with a 4% leverage ratio. 
Deposit Insurance Assessments 
 Branch Bank™s deposits are insured by the DIF of the FDIC 
up to the limits set forth under applicable law.  The FDIC 
imposes a risk-based deposit premium assessment system, which was amended pursuant to the Reform Act and further 
amended by the Dodd-Frank Act.  Under this system, as amende
d, the assessment rates for an insured depository institution 
vary according to the level of risk incurred in its activities.
  Effective April 1, 2011, the FDIC implemented a revised 
assessment rate calculator, which is based on a number of elemen
ts to measure the risk each institution poses to the DIF.  The 
new assessment rate is applied to total average assets less 
tangible equity, as defined under the Dodd-Frank Act.  The 
assessment rate schedule can change from time to time, at the 
discretion of the FDIC, subject to certain limits.  The FDIC has 
published guidelines under the Reform Act on the adjustment 
of assessment rates for certain institutions.  Under the current 
system, premiums are assessed quarterly.   
Consumer Protection Laws and Regulations
 In connection with its lending and leasing 
activities, Branch Bank is subject to a number of federal and state laws designed to
 protect borrowers and promote lending to various sectors of the economy and population.  These laws include the Equal 
Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Re
porting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the 
Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, and their respective state law counterparts. 
  16 
 CFPB The Dodd-Frank Act created a new, independent federal agency, the CFPB, which was granted broad rulemaking, 
supervisory and enforcement powers under various federal consum
er financial protection laws, including the laws referenced 
above, fair lending laws and certain other statutes.  The 
CFPB has examination and primar
y enforcement authority with 
respect to depository institutions with $10 billion or more in
 assets, their service providers and certain non-depository entit
ies such as debt collectors and consumer reporting agencies.  Th
e CFPB has authority to prevent unfair, deceptive or abusive 
practices in connection with the offering of consumer financial products.  The Dodd-Frank Act authorizes the CFPB to 
establish certain minimum standards for the origination of residential mortgages including a determination of the borrower™s 

ability to repay.  In addition, 
the Dodd-Frank Act allows borrow
ers to raise certain defenses to
 foreclosure if they receive an
y loan other than a ﬁqualified mortgageﬂ as defined by the CFPB.  The Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer 

protection laws and standards that are more stringent than thos
e adopted at the federal level and, in certain circumstances, 
permits state attorneys general to enforce compliance 
with both the state and federal laws and regulations. 
The CFPB has concentrated much of its rulemaking efforts on a 
variety of mortgage-related to
pics required under the Dodd-
Frank Act, including mortgage origina
tion disclosures, minimum 
underwriting standards and ability to repay, high-cost 
mortgage lending, and servicing practices.  On August 9, 2012
, the CFPB issued three NPRs 
covering loan origination and 
servicing requirements, wh
ich were finalized in January 2013, along with ot
her rules on mortgages.  The ability to repay and 
qualified mortgage standards rules, as well as the mortgage se
rvicing rules, are scheduled to become effective in January 
2014.  The escrow and loan originator co
mpensation rules are scheduled to become effective in June 2013.  A final rule 
integrating disclosure required by the Truth in Lending Act an
d the Real Estate Settlement and Procedures Act is expected 
later this year.  BB&T continues to analyze the impact that such rules may have on its business. 
Interchange Fees
 As required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FRB adopted rules e
ffective October 1, 2011, establishing standards for assessing 
whether the interchange fees that may be charged with re
spect to electronic debit transactions are ﬁreasonable and 
proportionalﬂ to the costs incurred by issuers for such trans
actions.  Interchange fees, or ﬁswipeﬂ fees, are charges that 
merchants pay to BB&T and other credit card companies and card-issuing banks for processing electronic payment 
transactions.  Under the final rules, the 
maximum permissible interchange fee that 
an issuer may receive for an electronic 
debit transaction will be the sum of 21 cents per transaction an
d 5 basis points multiplied by the value of the transaction.  A
n additional 1 cent per transaction fraud prevention adjustment is 
available to those issuers that comply with certain standards 
outlined by the FRB. 
Privacy Federal law currently contains extensive customer privacy pr
otection provisions, including substantial customer privacy 
protections provided under th
e Financial Services Modernization Act of 19
99 (commonly known as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley 
Act).  Under these provisions, a financial institution must pr
ovide to its customers, at the inception of the customer 
relationship and annually thereafter, the institution™s policies an
d procedures regarding the handling of customers™ nonpublic 
personal financial information.  These provisions also provid
e that, except for certain limited exceptions, an institution may 
not provide such personal information to unaffiliated third par
ties unless the institution discloses to the customer that such 
information may be so provided and the customer is given the opportunity to opt out of such disclosure.  Federal law makes it 
a criminal offense, except in limited circumstances, to obtain or attempt to obtain customer information of a financial nature 
by fraudulent or
 deceptive means. 
CRA The CRA requires Branch Bank™s primary federal bank regulatory agency, the FDIC, to assess the bank™s record in meeting 
the credit needs of the communities served by the bank, including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods and persons.  
Institutions are assigned one of four ratings: ﬁOutstandi
ng,ﬂ ﬁSatisfactory,ﬂ ﬁNeeds to Improveﬂ or ﬁSubstantial 
Noncompliance.ﬂ  This assessment is reviewed for any bank that 
applies to merge or consolidate 
with or acquire the assets or 
assume the liabilities of an insured depository institution, or to
 open or relocate a branch office.  The CRA record of each 
subsidiary bank of a financial holding company, such as 
BB&T, also is assessed by the FRB in connection with any 
acquisition or merger application. 
Automated Overdraft Payment Regulation 
 The FRB and FDIC have enacted consumer protection regulations related to automated overdraft payment programs offered 
by financial institutions.  In 2009, the FRB amended its Re
gulation E to prohibit financial institutions from charging 
consumers fees for paying overdrafts on automated teller machine and one-time debit card transactions, unless a consumer 
  17 
 consents, or opts in, to the overdraft se
rvice for those types of transactions.  Financial institutions must also provide 
consumers with a notice that explains the financial institution™
s overdraft services, including the fees associated with the 
service and the consumer™s choices.  In addition, FDIC-supervis
ed institutions must monitor overdraft payment programs for 
ﬁexcessive or chronicﬂ customer use and undertake ﬁmeaningful and effectiveﬂ follow-up action with customers that 
overdraw their accounts more than six times
 during a rolling 12-month pe
riod.  Financial institutions
 must also impose daily 
limits on overdraft charges, review and modify check-clearing procedures, prominently distinguish account balances from 
available overdraft coverage amounts and ensure board and management oversight regarding overdraft payment programs.   
Patriot Act 
 The Patriot Act contains anti-money launder
ing measures affecting insu
red depository institutions, broker-dealers and certain 
other financial institutions.  The Patriot Act includes the IMLAFA, which requires such financial institutions to implement 
policies and procedures to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism and grants the Secretary of the U.S. 
Treasury broad authority to establish regulations and to impos
e requirements and restrictions on financial institutions™ 
operations.  In addition, the Patriot Act requires the federal ba
nk regulatory agencies to cons
ider the effectiveness of a 
financial institution™s anti-money laundering activities when 
reviewing bank mergers and BHC acquisitions.  The U.S. 
Treasury has issued a number of regulations to implement the 
Patriot Act, which impose obligations on financial institutions 
to maintain appropriate policies, procedures and controls 
to detect, prevent and report money laundering and terrorist 
financing.  The obligations of financial institutions under the 
Patriot Act have increased and ma
y continue to increase.  The 
increase in obligations of financial institutions has resulted in 
increased costs for BB&T, which 
may continue to rise, and als
o may subject BB&T to additional liability. 
Other Regulatory Matters 
 BB&T is subject to numerous examinations by federal and st
ate banking regulators, as well 
as the SEC, the FINRA, the 
NYSE, various taxing authorities and vari
ous state insurance and securities regulat
ors.  BB&T has periodically received 
requests for information from regulatory authorities in various states, including state insurance commissions and state 
attorneys general, securities regulators and other regulatory au
thorities, concerning their bus
iness and accounting practices. 
 Such requests are considered incidental
 to the normal conduct of business. 
Employees 
 At December 31, 2012, BB&T had approximate
ly 34,000 full-time equivalent employees
 compared to approximately 31,800 
full-time equivalent employees at December 31, 2011. 
Website Access to BB&T™s Filings with the SEC 
 All of BB&T™s electronic filings 
with the SEC, including the Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-
Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to these reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of 
the Exchange Act, as amended, are made available at no cost in the Investor Relations section of the Company™s website, 

www.BBT.com/Investor
, as soon as reasonably pr
acticable after BB&T files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC.  
BB&T™s SEC filings are also available th
rough the SEC™s website at www.sec.gov
.   Corporate Governance  
Information with respect to BB&T™s Board 
of Directors, Executive Officers and corp
orate governance polic
ies and principles 
is presented on BB&T™s website, www.BBT.com
, and includes:  
 Corporate Governan
ce Guidelines  
 Corporate Board of Directors  
 Committees of the Corporate Board of
 Directors and Committee Charters  
 Codes of Ethics for Directors, Senior Financial Officers and Employees  
 Chief Executive Officer and Chief Fi
nancial Officer Certifications  
 Executive Officers  
 Policy and Procedures for Accoun
ting and Legal Complaints, includi
ng Whistleblower Procedures 
  18 
 BB&T intends to disclose any substantive amendments or waivers to the Codes of Ethics for Directors or Senior Financial 
Officers on BB&T™s website at www.BBT.com/Investor
.   
 Executive Officers of BB&T  
 Executive Officer
  Recent Work Experience
 Years of Service
 Age
Kelly S. King
  Chairman since January 
2010.  Chief Executive 
Officer since January 2009.  Chief Operating 
Officer between June 2004 and December 2008. 
   
40  
  64  
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
              Christopher L. Henson 
 Chief Operating Officer since January 2009.  Chie
f Financial Officer between July 2005 and 
December 2008. 
   
28  
  51  
Chief Operating Officer
              Daryl N. Bible 
 Chief Financial Officer since January 2009.  
Assistant Chief Financial Officer between January 
2008 and December 2008.  Employed by U.S 
Bancorp for 24 years, serving as Treasurer for the 
final 10 years. 
   
5    51  
Senior Executive Vice President and
      Chief Financial Officer
              Ricky K. Brown 
 President, Community Banking since July 2004. 
   
35  
  57  
Senior Executive Vice President and
      President, Community Banking
              Barbara F. Duck 
 Enterprise Risk Manager since July 2009.  
Electronic Delivery Channels Manager between 
July 2006 and June 2009. 
   
25  
  46  
Senior Executive Vice President and
      Enterprise Risk Manager
              Donna C. Goodrich 
 Deposit Services Manager since April 2004. 
   
27  
  50  
Senior Executive Vice President and
      Deposit Services Manager
              Robert E. Greene 
 Administrative Group Manager since August 
2001.  Risk Management Group Manager between 
July 2006 and June 2009. 
   
40  
  63  
Senior Executive Vice President and
      Administrative Group Manager
              Clarke R. Starnes III 
 Chief Risk Officer since July 2009.  Chief Credit 
Officer between September 2008 and June 2009.  
Specialized Lending Manager between January 
2000 and August 2008. 
   
30  
  53  
Senior Executive Vice President and
      Chief Risk Officer
              Steven B. Wiggs 
 Chief Marketing Officer since February 2005.  
Lending Group Manager since July 2009. 
   
33  
  55  
Senior Executive Vice President and
      Chief Marketing Officer and Lending
       Group Manager 
              Cynthia A. Williams 
 Chief Corporate Communications Officer since 
June 2009.  Corporate Financial Controls Manager 
from May 2004 through June 2009 
 27  
 60  
Senior Executive Vice President and 
      Chief Corporate Communications Officer
              C. Leon Wilson III 
 Operations Division Manager since July 1988. 
   
35  
  58  
Senior Executive Vice President and
      Operations Division Manager
              W. Rufus Yates 
 President and CEO of BB&T Securities since 
January 1, 2013.  President and CEO of Scott & 
Stringfellow, LLC since 2009.  Capital Markets 
Manager since 2006. 
   
26  
  55  
Senior Executive Vice President and
      Capital Markets Manager
        19 
 ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS 
The following discussion sets forth some of the more important
 risk factors that could materially affect BB&T™s financial 
condition and operations.  Other factors that could affect the 
Company™s financial condition and operations are discussed in 
the ﬁForward-Looking Statementsﬂ section above.  However, ther
e may be additional risks that are not presently material or 
known, and factors besides those discussed below, or elsewhere in this or other reports that BB&T filed or furnished with the 
SEC, that also could adversely affect the Company. 
Changes in national, regional and local economic conditions and deterioration in the geographic and financial markets in 
which BB&T operates could lead to higher loan charge-offs and reduce BB&T™s net income and growth. 
BB&T™s business is subject to periodic fluctuations based on national, regional and local economic conditions.  These 
fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled, and may have a material adverse impact on BB&T™s operations and 
financial condition even if other favorable events occur.  BB&T™s banking operations are locally oriented and community-
based.  Accordingly, BB&T expects to continue to be dependent
 upon local business conditions as well as conditions in the 
local residential and commercial 
real estate markets it serves.  For example, an
 increase in unemployment, a decrease in real 
estate values or increases in interest rates, as well as ot
her factors, could weaken the economies of the communities BB&T 
serves.  Weakness in BB&T™s market area could depress its earnings and consequently its financial condition because: 
 customers may not want or need BB&T™s products or services;  
 borrowers may not be able or willing to repay their loans;  
 the value of the collateral securing loans to borrowers may decline; and  
 the quality of BB&T™s loan portfolio may decline.   
Any of the latter three scenarios could require BB&T to charge off a higher percentage of loans and/or increase provisions for 
credit losses, which would reduce BB&T™s ne
t income.  For example, 
while the credit deterioration that BB&T experienced 
from 2007 through 2010 has improved considerably in the last two years, the challenges in the residential real estate markets 
still present credit deterioration risks for BB&T in light of the 
slow pace of general economic recovery.  Any further credit 
deterioration, combined with flat to declining real estate
 values, would result in increased loan charge-offs and higher 
provisions for credit losses, which may negatively impact BB&T™s net income. 
Although the United States economy has shown modest improveme
nt recently, economic conditions continue to pose a risk 
to financial services firms such as BB&T.
  The economic recovery, a
lthough continuing, proceeded 
at a slower pace in 2012 
than previously anticipated.  Job growth has not yet been sufficient to significantly reduce high unemployment in the United 
States.  There continues to be concern re
garding the possibility of a return to r
ecessionary conditions, as well as increased 
turmoil or volatility in the financial system.  BB&T is part of the financial system and a systemic lack of available credit, a
 lack of confidence in the financial sector, continued volatility in the financial markets and/or reduced business activity coul
d materially adversely affect BB&T™s business, 
financial condition and results of operations. 
Further downgrades of U.S. government securities by one or more of the credit ratings agencies could have a material 

adverse effect on BB&T™s operations, earnings and financial condition. 
In August 2011, the S&P credit rating agency lowered its long
 term sovereign credit rating on the U.S. from AAA to AA+, 
while maintaining a negative outlook.  The downgrade reflec
ted S&P™s view that an August 2011 agreement of U.S. 
lawmakers regarding the debt ceiling fell short of what would be necessary to stabilize the U.S. government™s medium term 
debt dynamics.  The three other major credit rating agencies did not downgrade their previously issued U.S. sovereign credit 

ratings.  The current uncertainty over U.S. fiscal policy, and 
the resulting tax increases and potential spending cuts in the U
.S. 
in 2013 could lead to future or further downgrades of the U.
S. sovereign credit rating by one or more of the major credit 
rating agencies.  A possible future downgrade of the federal government™s credit rating by one or more of the other major 

ratings agencies could create uncertainty in the U.S. and global financial markets and cause other events which, directly or 
indirectly, may adversely affe
ct BB&T™s operations, earnings and financia
l condition.  For example, BB&T™s securities 
portfolio consists largely of RMBS issued by GSEs, such as FHLMC and FNMA.  Among other things, a further downgrade 

in the U.S. government™s credit rating could adversely impact th
e value of these securities and may trigger requirements that 
the Company post additional collateral for trades relative to these securities. 
  20 
 Turmoil and volatility in global financial markets could have a material adverse effect on BB&T™s operations, earnings and 
financial condition. 
The negative impact on economic conditions and global markets from the EU sovereign debt matters could adversely affect 
BB&T™s business, financial condition and liquidity.  Concerns 
about the EU sovereign debt have caused uncertainty and 
disruption for financial markets globally, and continued uncertainties loom over the outcome of the EU™s financial support 
programs and the possibility that other EU member states may experience similar financial troubles. 
The monetary, tax and other policies of governmental agencies, including the FRB, have a significant impact on market 
interest rates, and our business and financial performance is impacted significantly by such interest rates.   
BB&T™s businesses and earnings are affected by the fiscal and ot
her policies adopted by various regulatory authorities of the 
U.S., non-U.S. governments and internatio
nal agencies.  The FRB regulates the supply of money and credit in the U.S. The 
federal policies determine in large part the cost of funds for lending and investing and the return earned on those loans and 
investments.  The market impact from su
ch policies can also materially decrease 
the value of certain of BB&T™s financial 
assets, most notably debt securities.  Changes in the fede
ral policies are beyond BB&T™s control and, consequently, the 
impact of these changes on our activities and resu
lts of our operations is difficult to predict.
 Weakness in the secondary residential mortgage loan ma
rkets could reduce BB&T™s net income and profitability. 
Significant ongoing disruption in the secondary market for residential mortgage loans has limited the market for, and 
liquidity of, most mortgage loans other than conforming FNMA, FHLMC and GNMA loans.  The effects of ongoing 
mortgage market challenges, combined with 
the ongoing correction in residential real 
estate market prices and reduced levels 
of home sales has resulted in reductions in single family ho
me values, adversely affecting the value of collateral securing 
mortgage loans held and mortgage loan originations.  Continued declines in real estate values and home sales volumes within 

BB&T™s banking footprint, and financial stress on borrowers as a result of job losses, or other factors, could have further 

adverse effects on borrowers that result in higher delinquencies and greater charge-offs in future periods, which would 
adversely affect BB&T™s financial condition and results of operations. 
BB&T™s liquidity could be impaired by an inability to acce
ss the capital markets,
 an unforeseen ou
tflow of cash or a 
reduction in the credit ratings for BB&T or its subsidiaries. 

Liquidity is essential to BB&T™s businesses.  Capital and cr
edit markets continue to demonstrate volatility and disruption, 
despite modest improvements in the general economy during the last two years, producing in some cases downward pressure 
on stock prices and credit capacity for certain issuers without regard to those issuers™ underlying financial strength.  If the
se levels of market disruption and volatility 
continue, worsen or abate and then aris
e at a later date, BB&T™s ability to access 
capital could be materially impaired.  Additionally, other fact
ors outside of BB&T™s control, such as a general market 
disruption or an operational problem that 
affects third parties, could impair BB&T™
s ability to access capital markets or creat
e an unforeseen outflow of cash or depos
its.  BB&T™s inability to access the capital ma
rkets could constrain its ability to make 
new loans, to meet its existing lending commitments and ultimately jeopardize its overall liquidity and capitalization.   
BB&T™s credit ratings are also important to its liquidity.  Ra
ting agencies regularly evaluate
 BB&T and its subsidiaries, and 
their ratings are based on a number of f
actors, including the financial strength of 
BB&T and its subsidiaries, as well as facto
rs not entirely within BB&T™s control, including conditions affectin
g the financial services industry generally.  In light of 
ongoing difficulties in the financial services industry and the housing and financial markets, as well as the soft economic 
recovery in general, there can be no assurance that BB&T w
ill maintain its current ratings. 
 A reduction in BB&T™s credit 
ratings could adversely affect BB&T™s liqui
dity and competitive position, 
increase its borrowing cost
s, limit its access to the
 capital markets or trigger unfavo
rable contractual obligations. 
The soundness of other financial institutions could adversely affect BB&T. 
Financial services institutions are interrela
ted as a result of trading, clearing, co
unterparty, or other relationships.  BB&T 
has 
exposure to many different industries and counterparties, and BB&T and certain of its subsidiaries routinely execute 
transactions with counterparties in the financial services
 industry, including brokers 
and dealers, commercial banks, 
investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutiona
l clients.  Many of these tr
ansactions expose BB&T to credit 
risk in the event of default of its count
erparty or client.  In addition, BB&T™s cr
edit risk may be exacerbated when collateral
 is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivative exposure.  These types of losses co
uld 
materially and adversely affect BB&T™s resu
lts of operations or financial condition. 
  21 
 Changes in interest rates may have an adverse effect on BB&T™s profitability. 
BB&T™s earnings and financial condition are largely dependent 
on net interest income, which is the difference between 
interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid on deposits and borrowings.  The narrowing of interest rate 
spreads, could adversely affect BB&T™s ea
rnings and financial condition.  BB&T cannot control or predict with certainty 
changes in interest rates.  Regional and local economic conditions, competitive pressures and the policies of regulatory 
authorities, including monetary policies of the FRB, affect inte
rest income and interest expens
e.  As discussed in ﬁMarket 
Risk Management Œ Interest Rate Market Risk (Other than Trading),ﬂ BB&T has ongoing policies and procedures designed 
to manage the risks associated with changes in market interest
 rates.  However, changes in interest rates still may have an 
adverse effect on BB&T™s profitability.  For example, high in
terest rates could adversely affect BB&T™s mortgage banking 
business because higher interest rates could cause customers to ap
ply for fewer mortgage refinancin
gs or purchase mortgages.  
While BB&T actively manages against these risks, if BB&T™s assumptions regarding borrower behavior are wrong or overall 
economic conditions are signif
icantly worse than we anticipate, the Company™s risk mitigation techniques may be 
insufficient.   
Changes in banking laws could have a material adverse effect on BB&T. 
BB&T is extensively regulated under federal and state banking laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the 
protection of depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking system as a whole.  In addition, BB&T is subject to 
changes in federal and state laws as well as changes in 
banking and credit regulations, and governmental economic and 
monetary policies.  Any of these changes could adversely and 
materially affect BB&T.  The 
current regulatory environment 
for financial institutions entails significant potential increases
 in compliance requirements and associated costs, including 
those related to consumer credit, with a focus on mortgage lending.  For example, the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act in 

2010 represented a significant overhaul 
of many aspects of the regulation of th
e financial services industry, and the 
implementation of and rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act during 2012 and in the future could result in higher compliance 

costs and otherwise materially adversely affect BB&T™s busi
ness, financial condition or results of operations.  See 
ﬁRegulatory Considerationsﬂ and the immedi
ately following risk factor
s for additional information regarding the Dodd-Frank 
Act and its potential impact upon BB&T and its subsidiaries. 
Federal and state banking regulators also possess broad powers to take supervisory actions as they deem appropriate.  These 
supervisory actions may result in higher capital requiremen
ts, higher insurance premiums and limitations on BB&T™s 
activities that could have a material adverse effect on its business and profitability. 
The ongoing implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act, and its 
related rulemaking activities, may result in lower revenues, 
higher costs and ratings downgrades.  In addition, failure to meet the FRB™s capital planning and adequacy requirements 
under the Dodd-Frank Act, may limit our ability to pay dividends, enter into acquisitions and repurchase our common stock. 
The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law in July 2010, represents
 a significant overhaul of many aspects of the regulation of the 
financial services industry, addressing, among other things, systemic risk, capital adequacy, deposit insurance assessments, 
consumer financial protection, interchange fees, derivatives, lending limits, and changes among the bank regulatory agencies.  

BB&T, under Dodd-Frank, is deemed to be a ﬁsystemically impor
tantﬂ institution.  During 2012, federal agencies continued 
implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act.  Many of these provisions remain subject to further rulemaking, guidance, and 

interpretation by the applicable federal regulators, such as the 
Council, which will regulate the systemic risk of the financia
l system.  Due to BB&T™s size, it will be subject to additional regu
lations such as the ﬁliving willﬂ requirements relating to th
e rapid and orderly resolution of systemically important financial institutions in the event of material financial distress or 

failure.  BB&T cannot predict the additional effects that complian
ce with the Dodd-Frank Act or any regulations will have on 
BB&T™s businesses or its ability to pursue future business op
portunities.  Additional regulations resulting from the Dodd-
Frank Act may materially adversely affect BB&T™s business, financial condition or results of operations.  See ﬁRegulatory 

Considerationsﬂ for additional information regarding the Dodd-Frank Act and its impact upon BB&T.   
In addition, BB&T has been subject to assessment by the FRB as part of the CCAR program.  CCAR is an annual exercise by 
the FRB to ensure that institutions have 
forward-looking capital planning processes 
that account for their 
risks and sufficient
 capital to continue operations throughout times of economic an
d financial stress.  BB&T cannot be certain that the FRB will 
have no objections to BB&T™s future capital plans submitte
d through the CCAR program.  Failure by BB&T to pass the 
CCAR review could adversely affect our ability to pay dividend
s, enter into acquisitions and repurchase our common stock.  
   22 
 Consumer protection regulations related to automated overdraft payment programs could adversely affect BB&T™s business 
operations, net income and profitability. 
BB&T has implemented changes to its business practices relating to
 overdraft payment programs in order to comply with the 
regulations enacted by the FRB in July 2010 and the FDIC in
 July 2011 relating to automated overdraft payment programs 
offered by financial institutions.  See ﬁRegulatory Cons
iderationsŠAutomated Overdraft Payment Regulation.ﬂ  
Prior to enactment of these consumer protection regulations, Bran
ch Bank™s overdraft and insufficient funds fees represented 
a significant amount of non-interest fees co
llected by Branch Bank.  Si
nce taking effect, the fees received by Branch Bank for 
automated overdraft payment services have
 decreased, thereby adversel
y impacting BB&T™s non-interest income.  For 2010, 
overdraft and insufficient fund fees totaled $427 million.  Fo
r 2012, the first full fiscal year for which the regulations took
 effect, overdraft and insufficient 
fund fees totaled $318 million.  Complying with these regulations has resulted in increased 
operational costs for BB&T and Branch Bank, which may con
tinue to rise.  In addition, BB&T may be placed at a 
competitive disadvantage to the extent that its competitors are not subject to the FDIC™s automated overdraft payment 
program regulations.  The actual impact of these regulations in future periods could vary due to a variety of factors, includin
g changes in customer behavior, economic conditions and other factors, which could adversely affect BB&T™s business 

operations, net income and profitability. 
BB&T may be subject to more stringent capital requirements, which could diminish its ability to pay dividends or require 
BB&T to reduce its operations. 
The Dodd-Frank Act requires federal banking agencies to establish more stringent risk-based capital requirements and 
leverage limits applicable to banks and BHCs.  Under the legisl
ation, federal banking agencies are required to develop capital 
requirements that address systemically risky activities.  The 
effect of these capital rules w
ill disallow trust preferred secur
ities from qualifying as Tier 1 capital at the holding company level 
for entities with greater than $15 billion in assets, with a thr
ee-
year phase-in period.  On June 12, 2012, the FRB, FDIC, and 
OCC issued a joint release announcing three separate notices of 
proposed rulemaking seeking comment on proposed rules that would revise and replace their current capital rules in a manner 

consistent both with relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Ac
t as well as the implementation of Basel III.  Once adopted and 
fully phased in, banking organizations such as BB&T would be required to meet enhanced minimum capital and leverage 
ratios.  These requirements, and any other new regulations, including those that have been proposed but not yet implemented 
as a result of the requirements established by the BCBS, could 
adversely affect BB&T™s ability to pay dividends, or could 
require BB&T to reduce business levels or to raise capital, includ
ing ways that may adversely aff
ect its results of operations 
or financial condition.  In addition, the costs associated with 
complying with more stringent capital requirements, such as the
 requirement to formulate and submit capital plans based on pre-defined stress scenarios on an annual basis, could have a 
material adverse effect on BB&T.  See ﬁRegulatory Consid
erationsﬂ for additional information regarding the capital 
requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act and Basel III. 
BB&T may experience significant competition in its market area
, which may reduce its customer base or cause it to lower 
prices for its products and services in order to maintain market share. 

There is intense competition among commercial banks in BB&T™
s market area.  In addition, BB&T competes with other 
providers of financial services, such as savings and loan asso
ciations, credit unions, consumer finance companies, securities 
firms, insurance companies, commercial finance and leasing co
mpanies, the mutual funds in
dustry, full-service brokerage 
firms and discount brokerage firms, some of which are subject to less extensive regulations than BB&T is with respect to the 
products and services they provide.  BB&T™s success depends, in
 part, on its ability to adapt its products and services to 
evolving industry standards.  There is increasing pressure to 
provide products and services at 
lower prices.  Lower prices can 
reduce BB&T™s NIM and revenues from its fee-based products and services. 
In addition, the adoption of new technologies by competitors, including internet banking services, mobile phone applications 
and advanced ATM functionality could require BB&T to make 
substantial expenditures to modify or adapt its existing 
products and services.  Also, these and other capital investments in BB&T™s business may not produce expected growth in 

earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure.  BB&T may 
not be successful in introducing new products and services, 
achieving market acceptance of its product
s and services, anticipatin
g or reacting to consumer
s™ changing technological 
preferences or developing and maintaining loyal customers. 
Some of BB&T™s larger competitors, including certain nationa
l banks that have a significant presence in BB&T™s market 
area, may have greater capital and resources than BB&T, may have higher lending limits and may offer products and services 
not offered by BB&T.  Any potential ad
verse reactions to BB&T™s financial cond
ition or status in the marketplace, as 
compared to its competitors, could limit BB&T™s ability to attract and retain customers and to compete for new business 
opportunities.  The inability to attract and retain customers or to effectively compete for new business may have a material 
and adverse effect on BB&T™s financial condition and results of operations. 
  23 
 BB&T also experiences competition from a variety of institutions outside of its market area.  Some of these institutions 
conduct business primarily over the Internet and may thus be 
able to realize certain cost savings and offer products and 
services at more favorable rates and with
 greater convenience to the customer who 
can pay bills and transfer funds directly 
without going through a bank.  This ﬁdisintermediationﬂ could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer
 deposits and income generated from those deposits.  In add
ition, changes in consumer spending and saving habits could 
adversely affect BB&T™s operations, and the Company may be unable to develop competitive new products and services in 
response to these changes on a timely basis or at all. 
Catastrophic events could have a ma
terial adverse effect on BB&T. 
The occurrence of catastrophic ev
ents such as hurricanes, trop
ical storms, tornados, and other large scale catastrophes could 
adversely affect BB&T™s consolidated financial condition or 
results of operations.  BB&T has operations and customers 
along the Gulf and Atlantic coasts as well as other parts of th
e southeastern United States, whic
h could be adversely impacted 
by hurricanes and other severe weather in those regions.  Unpredictable natural and other disasters could have an adverse 
effect on BB&T in that such events could materially disrupt 
its operations or the ability or willingness of its customers to 
access the financial services offered by BB&T
.  BB&T™s property and casualty insuran
ce operations also expose it to claims 
arising out of catastrophes.  The inciden
ce and severity of catastrophes are inherently unpredictable.  Although BB&T carries 
insurance to mitigate its exposure to certain catastrophic even
ts, these events could nevertheless reduce BB&T™s earnings and 
cause volatility in its financial results for any fiscal quarter or
 year and have a material adverse effect on BB&T™s financial
 condition and/or results of operations. 
BB&T faces significant operational risks related to its activitie
s, which could expose it to 
negative publicity, litigation and
/or regulatory action. 

BB&T is exposed to many types of risks, including operational, reputational, legal and compliance risk, the risk of fraud or 
theft by employees or outsiders (including identity and info
rmation theft), unauthorized transactions by employees or 
operational errors, including clerical or record-keeping errors or those resulting from faulty or disabled computer or 

telecommunications systems.  Negative public opinion can resu
lt from BB&T™s actual or alleged conduct in any number of 
activities, including lending practices, corporate governance 
and acquisitions, activities related to asset sales and balance 
sheet management and from actions taken by government regulators and community organizations in response to those 
activities.  Negative public opinion can adversely affect BB&T™s
 ability to attract and keep customers and can expose it to 
litigation and regulatory action. 
Because the nature of the financial services business involves a hi
gh volume of transactions, cert
ain errors may be repeated or
 compounded before they are discovered 
and successfully rectified.  BB&T™s nece
ssary dependence upon automated systems 
to record and process its transaction volume may further incr
ease the risk that technical fl
aws or employee tampering or 
manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficu
lt to detect.  BB&T also may be subject to disruptions of i
ts operating systems arising from events that are wholly or partially beyond its control (for example, computer viruses or 
electrical or telecommunications outages), which may give rise to disruption of service to customers and to financial loss or 
liability.  BB&T is further exposed to the risk that its external vendors may be unable to fulfill their contractual obligation
s (or will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational erro
rs by their respective employees as is BB&T) and to the risk 
that BB&T™s (or its vendors™) business continuity and data security systems prove to be inadequate. 
BB&T relies on other companies to provide certain 
key components of its bu
siness infrastructure. 
Third party vendors provide certain key components of BB&T™s bu
siness infrastructure such as internet connections, network 
access and mutual fund distribution.  While BB&T has selected 
these third party vendors caref
ully, it does not control their 
operations.  Any failure by these third parties to perform or provide agreed upon goods and services for any reason or their 
poor performance of services, could adve
rsely affect BB&T™s ability to deliver prod
ucts and services to its customers and 
otherwise to conduct its business.  Replacing these third party vendors could also entail significant delay and expense.   
Significant litigation could have a material adverse effect on BB&T. 
BB&T faces legal risks in its business, and the volume of cl
aims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation 
and regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain
 high.  Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory 
action against BB&T may have material adverse financial effect
s or cause significant reputational harm to BB&T, which in 
turn could seriously harm BB&T™s business prospects. 
  24 
 BB&T faces systems failure risks as well as cyber-security ri
sks, including ﬁdenial of service,ﬂ ﬁhackingﬂ and ﬁidentity 
theftﬂ that could adversely affect BB&T™s business and financial performance or reputation. 
The computer systems and network infrastructure BB&T and its third-party service providers use could be vulnerable to 
unforeseen problems.  BB&T™s operations are dependent upon its ability to protect computer equipment against damage from 
fire, power loss or telecommunication failure.  Any damage or 
failure that causes an interrup
tion in BB&T™s operations could 
adversely affect its business and financial results. 
In addition, BB&T™s computer systems and network infrastructure
 are subject to security risks, and could be susceptible to 
cyber-attacks, such as denial of service attacks, hacking, terr
orist activities or identity theft.  Denial of service attacks h
ave 
been launched against a number of large financial services in
stitutions, including BB&T.  None of these events resulted in a 
breach of BB&T™s client data or account information; however, the performance of BB&T™s website, www.bbt.com, was 
adversely affected and in some instances customers were 
prevented from accessing BB&T™s 
website.  We expect to be 
subject to similar attacks in the future.  
While events to date primarily resulted in inconvenience, future cyber-attacks could
 be more disruptive and damaging.  Hacking and identity theft ri
sks, in particular, could caus
e serious reputational harm.  
Cyber threats are rapidly evolving and BB&T may not be able 
to anticipate or prevent all su
ch attacks.  BB&T may incur 
increasing costs in an effort to minimize these risks an
d could be held liable for any security breach or loss. 
Differences in interpretation of tax laws and regula
tions may adversely impact BB&T™s financial statements. 
Local, state or federal tax authorities may interpret tax laws
 and regulations differently than BB&T and challenge tax 
positions that BB&T has taken on its tax returns.  This may re
sult in differences in the treat
ment of revenues, deductions, 
credits and/or differences in 
the timing of these items.  The differences in 
treatment may result in payment of additional 
taxes, interest or penalties that could have a material adverse e
ffect on BB&T™s results.  For example, as discussed in Note 13
 ﬁIncome Taxesﬂ in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Stat
ements,ﬂ in February 2010, BB&T received an IRS statutory 
notice of deficiency for tax years 2002-2007 asserting a liab
ility for taxes, penalties and interest of approximately $892 
million related to the disallowance of foreign tax credits and 
other deductions claimed by a subsidiary in connection with a 
financing transaction.  BB&T paid the disputed tax, penalties an
d interest in March 2010 and filed a lawsuit seeking a refund 
in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims.  The Court has scheduled 
the trial to begin March 4, 2013.  Potential developments in 
BB&T™s litigation or in similar cases 
could adversely affect BB&T™s financ
ial position or results of operations.
 BB&T may not be able to complete future acquisitions. 
BB&T must generally satisfy a number of meaningful conditions
 before it can complete an acquisition of another bank or 
BHC, including federal and/or state regulatory approvals.  In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, 
bank regulators will consider, among other f
actors, the effect of the acquisition on 
competition, financial condition and futur
e prospects, including current and projected capital ratios and le
vels, the competence, experience and integrity of management 
and record of compliance with laws and regulations, the conve
nience and needs of the communities to be served, including 
the acquiring institution™s record of compliance under the CRA, 
the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in combating 
money laundering activities and protests from various stakeholders
 of both BB&T and its acquisition partner.  Also, under the 
Dodd-Frank Act, U.S. regulators must now take systemic risk into account when evaluating whether to approve a potential 
acquisition transaction involving a large financial institution lik
e BB&T.  BB&T cannot be certain when or if, or on what 
terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be
 granted.  In specific cases, BB&T may be required to sell 
banks or branches, or take other actions as a condition to recei
ving regulatory approval.  An inability to satisfy other materi
al conditions necessary to consummate an acquisition transaction, 
such as third-party litigation, a judicial order blocking the 
transaction or lack of shareholder approval, could also
 prevent BB&T from completing an announced acquisition. 
BB&T may not be able to successfully integrate bank or nonbank mergers and acquisitions. 
Difficulties may arise in the integration of the business an
d operations of BHCs, banks and other nonbank entities BB&T 
acquires and, as a result, BB&T may not be able to achieve th
e cost savings and synergies that it expects will result from such
 transactions.  Achieving cost savings is dependent on cons
olidating certain operational and functional areas, eliminating 
duplicative positions and terminating certain agreements for ou
tside services.  Additional operational savings are dependent 
upon the integration of the acquired or merged entity™s busine
sses with BB&T or one of BB&T™s subsidiaries, the conversion 
of core operating systems, data systems and products and the standardization of business practices.  Complications or 
difficulties in the conversion of core operating systems, data 
systems and products may result in the loss of customers, 
damage to BB&T™s reputation within the financial services 
industry, operational problems, one-time costs currently not 
anticipated or reduced cost savings resulting from such mergers or
 acquisitions.  Annual cost savings in each such transaction 
may be materially less than anticipated if the holding compan
y, bank merger or nonbank merger or acquisition is delayed 
unexpectedly, the integration of operations is delayed beyond what is anticipated or the conversion to a single data system is 
not accomplished on a timely basis. 
  25 
 Difficulty in integrating an acquired company may cause BB&T 
not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, 
increases in geographic or product presence and/or other projected benefits from the acquisition.  The integration could result
 in higher than expected deposit attrition, loss of key employees, disruption of BB&T™s businesses or the businesses of the 
acquired company, or otherwise adversely 
affect BB&T™s ability to maintain relations
hips with customers and employees or 
achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition.  Also, the negative effect of any divestitures required by regulatory 

authorities in acquisitions or business combinations may be greater than expected. 
Rulemaking changes implemented by the CFPB will result in higher regulatory and compliance costs related to originating 
and servicing mortgages and may adversely affect our results of operations.   
The CFPB recently has finalized a number of significant rule
s which will impact nearly every aspect of the lifecycle of a 
residential mortgage.  These rules implement the Dodd-Frank
 Act amendments to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the 
Truth in Lending Act and the Real Estate 
Settlement Procedures Act.  The final rule
s require banks to, among other things: (i) 
develop and implement procedures to ensure compliance with a 
new "reasonable ability to repay" test and identify whether a 
loan meets a new definition for a "qualified mortgage;" (ii) implement new or revised disclosures, policies and procedures for 
servicing mortgages including, but not limited to, early intervention with delinquent borrowers and specific loss mitigation 
procedures for loans secured by a borrower's principal residence;
 (iii) comply with additional restrictions on mortgage loan 
originator compensation; and (iv) comply with new disclosure requirements and standards for appraisals and escrow accounts 
maintained for "higher priced mortgage loans."  These new ru
les create operational and strate
gic challenges for BB&T, as it 
is both a mortgage originator and a servicer.  For example, bus
iness models for cost, pricing, delivery, compensation, and risk
 management will need to be reevaluated and potentially revi
sed, perhaps substantially.  Additionally, programming changes 
and enhancements to systems will 
be necessary to comply with the new rules.  
Some of these new rule
s will be effective in 
June 2013, while others will be effective in January 2014. 
 Forthcoming additional rulemaking affecting the residential 
mortgage business is also expected.  Achieving full compliance in the relatively short timeframe provided for certain of the 

new rules will result in increased regulatory and compliance costs. 
The Colonial loan portfolios are largely covered by shared-lo
ss agreements, however, BB&T is not immune from losses or 
risks relative to these portfolios. 
Branch Bank acquired significant loan portfolios in connection w
ith its acquisition of Colonial 
and entered into loss sharing 
agreements with the FDIC, which provide that a significant por
tion of losses related to the covered loan portfolios will be 
borne by the FDIC.  Fluctuations in economic conditions, including those related to local residential real estate, commercial 
real estate and construction markets, may 
increase the level of charge-offs on the ac
quired loan portfolio and correspondingly 
reduce BB&T™s net income.  These fluctuations are not predicta
ble, cannot be controlled and may have a material adverse 
impact on BB&T™s operations and financial condition even if 
other favorable events occur.  Additionally, the loss sharing 
agreements have limited terms; therefore, 
any charge-off of related losses that Branch
 Bank experiences after the term of the 
loss sharing agreements will not be reimbursed by th
e FDIC and will negatively impact BB&T™s net income. 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES  
BB&T owns or leases significant office space used as the Co
mpany™s headquarters in Winston-Salem, North Carolina.  
BB&T owns free-standing operations centers
, with its primary operations and info
rmation technology center located in 
Wilson, North Carolina.  BB&T 
occupies offices that are either owned or ope
rated under long-term leases.  At December 31, 
2012, Branch Bank operated 1,832 branch offices in North Carolina, Virginia, Florida, Georgia, Maryland, South Carolina, 
Alabama, West Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee, Texas, Wash
ington D.C and Indiana.  BB&T also operates numerous 
insurance agencies and other businesses that occupy facilities. 
 Office locations are either owned or leased.  Management 
believes that the premises occupied by BB&T and its subsidiaries are well-located and suitably equipped to serve as financial 

services facilities.  See Note 5 ﬁPremises and Equipmentﬂ in the 
ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statementsﬂ in this report 
for additional disclosures related to BB&T™s properties and other fixed assets.   
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT™S COMMON
 EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND 
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
BB&T™s common stock is traded on the NYSE under the symbol ﬁBBT.ﬂ  BB&T™s common stock was held by 
approximately 315,000 shareholde
rs at December 31, 2012 compared to appr
oximately 293,000 shareholders at December 
31, 2011.  The following table sets forth the quarterly high
 and low trading prices and closing sales prices for BB&T™s 
common stock and the dividends declared per share of common stock for each of the last eight quarters. 
   26 
 Table 3
Quarterly Summary of Market Prices and Ca
sh Dividends Declared on Common Stock 
      2012
2011 
              Cash 
       Cash 
       Sales Prices
Dividends 
Sales Prices 
Dividends 
       High
  Low 
Last 
Declared 
High 
Low 
 Last 
Declared (1)
  Quarter Ended: 
                 March 31 
$  31.94 
$  25.26
$ 31.39
$ 0.20
$ 29.60
$ 25.95 
$  27.45
$ 0.17
   June 30   32.74 
  27.40
  30.85
  0.20
  27.81
  25.24 
  26.84
  0.16
   September 30 
  34.37 
  30.41
  33.16
  0.20
  27.36
  18.92 
  21.33
  0.16
   December 31 
  33.89 
  26.86
  29.11
  0.20
  25.57
  19.76 
  25.17
  0.16
    Year $  34.37 
$  25.26
$ 29.11
$ 0.80
$ 29.60
$ 18.92 
$  25.17
$ 0.65
 (1) 
The first quarter of 2011 included a special $0.01 dividend. 
Common Stock and Dividends  
BB&T™s ability to pay dividends is primarily dependent on earnings from operations, the adequacy of capital and the 
availability of liquid assets for distribution.  BB&T™s ability to generate liquid assets for distribution is dependent on the 
ability of Branch Bank to pay dividends to the Parent Compan
y.  The payment of cash dividends is an integral part of 
providing a competitive return on shareholders™ investments. 
 The Company™s policy is to accomplish this while retaining 
sufficient capital to support future growth and to meet regulat
ory requirements.  Management has established a guideline that 
the common dividend payout ratio will be between 30% and 50
% of basic EPS during normal economic conditions.  BB&T™s 
common dividend payout ratio, computed by dividing dividends declared per common share by basic EPS, was 29.2% in 
2012 compared to 35.1% in 2011.  BB&T has paid a cash dividend to shareholders every year since 1903.  In January 2013, 
BB&T aligned scheduled common dividend payment dates to occur in the same quarter the dividends are declared.  Going 

forward, BB&T expects common dividend declarations, if declar
ed, to occur in January, April, July and October with 
payment dates on or about the first of Ma
rch, June, September and December.  A di
scussion of dividend restrictions is 
included in Note 16 ﬁRegulatory Requirements and Other Restrictionsﬂ in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statementsﬂ 

and in the ﬁRegulatory Considerationsﬂ section. 
Preferred Stock 
During 2012, BB&T issued $2.2 billion of Non-Cumulative Perp
etual Preferred Stock through a series of issuances for net 
proceeds of $2.1 billion.  Dividends, if declared, accrue and ar
e payable quarterly, in arrears, at rates ranging from 5.20% to
 5.85% per annum.  See Note 11 ﬁSharehold
ers™ Equityﬂ for additional information. 
These securities are expected to qua
lify as non-common Tier 1 capital unde
r the new Basel III capital rules.  
Share Repurchases 

BB&T has periodically repurchased shares of its own common stock.  In accordance with North Carolina law, repurchased 
shares cannot be held as treasury stock, but revert to the status of authorized and unissued shares upon repurchase.   
On June 27, 2006, BB&T™s Board of Directors granted authority under the 2006 Repurchase Plan for the repurchase of up to 
50 million shares of BB&T™s common stock.  The 2006 Repurchase Plan also authorizes the repurchase of the remaining 
shares from the previous authorization.  The 2006 Repurchase
 Plan remains in effect until all the authorized shares are 
repurchased unless modified by the Board of Directors.  No shares were repurchased in connection with the 2006 Repurchase 

Plan during 2012, 2011 or 2010.   

   27 
 Table 4
Share Repurchase Activity 
          Maximum Remaining 
           Number of Shares 
      Total
  Average 
Total Shares Purchased 
 Available for Repurchase 
      Shares
  Price Paid 
Pursuant to 
 Pursuant to 
      Repurchased (1)
 Per Share (2) 
Publicly-Announced Plan 
 Publicly-Announced Plan 
      (Shares in thousands)
   October 2012 
 8 $ 32.01 
  44,139
 November 2012 
 7  28.42 
  44,139
 December 2012 
 9  28.42 
  44,139
  Total 
 24 
 29.70 
  44,139
 (1)
 Repurchases reflect shares exchanged or surrendered in co
nnection with the exercise of
 equity-based awards under 
BB&T™s equity-based compensation plans.  
(2) 
Excludes commissions.  
Equity Compensation Plan Information
 The following table provides information concerning securities to
 be issued upon the exercise of outstanding equity-based 
awards, the weighted average price of such awards and the secu
rities remaining available for future issuance as of December 
31, 2012. 
  Table 5
  Equity Compensation Plan Information
       (a) (b)(c)(1)
        Number of securities
 Weighted-average
Number of securities remaining
       to be issued upon
 exercise price of
available for future issuance
       exercise of outstanding
outstanding options,
under equity compensation plans
  Plan Category
  options, warrants and rights 
 warrants and rights 
(excluding securities reflected in (a)) 
  Equity compensation plans 
             approved by security 
             holders 
   59,321,898 
 $ 26.13 
   34,886,045  
   Equity compensation plans 
             not approved by 
             security holders 
               Total 
   59,321,898 
  26.13 
   34,886,045  
  (1) 
All awards remaining available for future issuance 
will be issued under the terms of the 2012 Plan. 
Performance Graph  Set forth below is a graph comparing the total returns (assuming reinvestment of dividends) of BB&T Common Stock, the 
S&P 500 Index, and an Industry Peer
 Group Index.  The graph assumes $100 
invested on December 31, 2007 in BB&T 
Common Stock and in each of the indices.  In 2012, the financial holding companies in the Peer Group were Comerica 
Incorporated, Fifth-Third Bancorp, Huntington Bancshares, Incorporated, KeyCorp, M&T Bank Corporation, PNC Financial 
Services Group, Inc., Regions Financial Corporation, SunTrust Banks, Inc., U.S. Bancorp and Zions Bancorporation.  The 
Peer Group consists of financial and BHCs with assets betw
een approximately $50 billion and $355 billion as of December 
31, 2012. 
  28     
   
   
   
   
   
  Com
parison of 
5 Year Cumulat
ive Tota
l Return*Among BB
&T Corporation, the S&P 500
 Index, and BB
&T's Pee
r Group$0$5
0$10
0$15
0$20
012
/0712/0812
/0912
/1012/1112
/12BB
&T CorporationS&P 500
 IndexBB
&T's Pee
r Group * $100 invested on December 31, 2007, in stock or index, including reinvestment of dividends.  Fiscal year ending December 31.      
 Cumulat
ive Total
 Retu
rn       
 12/07
     12/
08     12/
09     12/
10     12/
11      12/
12    BB&T
 Corp
orati
on $  100.0
0$ 95.69$ 93.87$ 99.43  $  97.57  $ 115.6
9  S&P
 500 In
dex   100.0
0  63.00  79.68  91.68    93.61    108.5
9  BB&T™s Peer Group   100.0
0  63.27  59.09  77.41    68.63    83.99    29 
 ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 (Dollars in millions, except per sh
are data, shares in thousands) 
                        Five Year
    As of/ For the Years Ended December 31,
Compound
    2012
  2011
2010
2009
2008
 2007
 Growth Rate
Summary of Operations:
                         Interest income $ 6,917   $ 6,885  $ 7,115  $ 6,884  $ 7,207   $ 7,894   (2.6)
% Interest expense 
 1,060    1,378   1,795   2,040   2,969    4,014   (23.4) Net interest income  5,857    5,507   5,320   4,844   4,238    3,880   8.6  Provision for credit losses 
 1,057    1,190   2,638   2,811   1,445    448 
  18.7 
 Net interest income after           provision for credit losses 
 4,800    4,317   2,682   2,033   2,793    3,432   6.9  Noninterest income 
  3,820     3,113    3,957    3,934    3,197     2,774   6.6   Noninterest expense 
  5,828     5,802    5,670    4,931    3,911     3,624   10.0 
  Income before income taxes 
  2,792     1,628    969 
   1,036    2,079     2,582   1.6   Provision for income taxes 
  764 
    296 
   115 
   159 
   550 
    836 
  (1.8)
  Net income 
  2,028     1,332    854 
   877 
   1,529     1,746   3.0   Noncontrolling interest 
  49 
    43 
   38 
   24 
   10 
    12 
  32.5 
  Dividends and accretion on 
                       preferred stock 
  63 
          124 
   21 
     NM  Net income available to 
                       common shareholders 
$ 1,916   $ 1,289  $ 816 
 $ 729 
 $ 1,498   $ 1,734   2.0 Per Common Share: 
               Average shares outstanding: 
                Basic 
 698,739 
   696,532 
  692,489 
  629,583 
  548,847 
   547,184 
  5.0   Diluted 
 708,877 
   705,168 
  701,039 
  635,619 
  552,498 
   551,755 
  5.1  Earnings:                 Basic 
$ 2.74   $ 1.85  $ 1.18  $ 1.16  $ 2.73   $ 3.17   (2.9)
  Diluted 
 2.70    1.83   1.16   1.15   2.71    3.14   (3.0)
 Cash dividends declared (1) 
 0.80    0.65   0.60   0.92   1.87    1.80   (15.0) Book value 
 27.21 
   24.98 
  23.67 
  23.47 
  23.16 
   23.14 
  3.3 Average Balances: 
                      Securities, at amortized cost 
$ 36,334 
  $ 29,923 
 $ 27,610 
 $ 31,226 
 $ 23,402 
  $ 21,731 
  10.8 
 Loans and leases (2) 
  113,733 
    105,962 
   104,787 
   102,146 
   95,195 
    87,952 
  5.3   Other assets 
  28,035 
    27,081 
   27,261 
   21,810 
   18,284 
    16,737 
  10.9 
   Total assets $ 178,102 
  $ 162,966 
 $ 159,658 
 $ 155,182 
 $ 136,881 
  $ 126,420 
  7.1   Deposits $ 127,617 
  $ 112,318 
 $ 106,773 
 $ 102,381 
 $ 88,831 
  $ 83,501 
  8.9   Long-term debt 
  20,651 
    22,257 
   21,653 
   19,085 
   19,839 
    18,045 
  2.7   Other liabilities 
  10,357 
    11,124 
   14,346 
   17,478 
   14,678 
    12,659 
  (3.9)
  Shareholders' equity 
  19,477 
    17,267 
   16,886 
   16,238 
   13,533 
    12,215 
  9.8   Total liabilities and 
                       shareholders' equity $ 178,102 
  $ 162,966 
 $ 159,658 
 $ 155,182 
 $ 136,881 
  $ 126,420 
  7.1  Period-End Balances: 
                      Total assets $ 183,872 
  $ 174,579 
 $ 157,081 
 $ 165,764 
 $ 152,015 
  $ 132,618 
  6.8   Loans and leases (2) 
  118,364 
    111,205 
   107,264 
   106,207 
   98,669 
    91,686 
  5.2   Deposits   133,075 
    124,939 
   107,213 
   114,965 
   98,613 
    86,766 
  8.9   Long-term debt 
  19,114 
    21,803 
   21,730 
   21,376 
   18,032 
    18,693 
  0.4   Shareholders' equity 
  21,223 
    17,480 
   16,498 
   16,241 
   16,081 
    12,664 
  10.9 
 Selected Ratios:                        Rate of return on: 
                        Average total assets 
  1.14 %    0.82 %  0.54 %  0.56 %  1.12 %    1.38 %     Average common equity 
  10.35 
    7.49    4.85    4.93    11.44 
    14.25 
     Average total equity 
  10.41 
    7.71    5.06    5.40    11.30 
    14.30 
    Dividend payout 
  29.20 
    35.14 
   50.85 
   79.31 
   68.50 
    56.78 
    Average equity to average assets 
  10.94 
    10.60 
   10.58 
   10.46 
   9.89     9.66    (1) 2011 included a special $0.01 dividend. 
(2) Loans and leases are net of unearned income and include LHFS. 
  30 
  ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF 
OPERATIONS 
Executive Overview 
 Significant accomplishments in 2012
  The Company™s more significant acco
mplishments duri
ng 2012 were: 
 Record net income available to common shareholders of
 $1.9 billion represented a 48.6% increase over the prior 
year  Strong growth in noninterest income was driven by record insurance, mortgage banking and investment banking and 
brokerage commission revenues 
 Continued improvement in credit quality with NPAs, excludin
g covered foreclosed property, declining $914 million, 
or 37.3%.  NPAs are no
w at their lowest level since June 30, 2008  
 Strong results from the FRB™s 2012 CCAR process, which 
resulted in a 25% increase to the quarterly dividend in 
2012 and a 15% increase to the quarterly dividend in the fi
rst quarter of 2013.  Highlights of the stress test results 
include: 
o One of the strongest Tier 1 common ratios (exclu
ding capital issuances) among traditional banks 
o Lowest loan loss rate under the stress scenario among traditional banks 
 Total end of period loans held for investment increased 6.6% driven by growth in the residential mortgage, 
commercial and industrial, other lending subsidiaries and direct retail lending portfolios  
 Continued improvement in deposit mix and average cost, as
 evidenced by a 26.4% incr
ease in noninterest-bearing 
deposits, and a 25 basis point reduction in the average cost of interest-bearing deposits, during 2012 
 Successful acquisition of Crum
p Insurance in April 2012 resulted in BB&
T establishing a #1 market share in 
wholesale life and a #2 market share in whol
esale property and casualty in U.S. markets 
 Successful acquisition of BankAtlantic 
in July 2012, which enhanced BB&T™s
 presence in the Southeast Florida 
market and resulted in a $3.5 billion increase in deposits 
Challenges 
 BB&T™s business has become more dynamic and complex in recent years.  Consequently, management has annually 
evaluated and, as necessary, adjusted the 
Company™s business strategy in the context 
of the current operating environment.  
During this process, management considers the current 
financial condition and performance of the Company and its 
expectations for future economic activity from both a national 
and local market perspective.  The achievement of BB&T™s 
key strategic objectives and established long-term financial go
als is subject to many uncertainties and challenges.  In the 
opinion of management, the challenges that are most relevant and likely to have a near term impact on performance are 
presented below:  
 The impact of U.S. fiscal debt, budget and tax negotiations  
 Intense competition within the financial services industry  
 Cost and risk associated with the regulatory initiatives  
Overview of Significant Events and Financial Results 
 Despite challenging market conditions throughout the year, BB&
T produced record annual earnings for 2012.  These results 
were driven by broad-based loan growth, improvements in deposit mix and cost, a significant increase in noninterest income, 
and a continued focus on controlling noninterest expense.  In 
addition, BB&T continued to ma
ke significant progress towards 
reducing the level of NPAs, which had a beneficial
 impact on credit costs 
incurred during the year. 
  31 
 Consolidated net income available to common shareholders for 
2012 totaled $1.9 billion, an increase of $627 million, or 
48.6%, compared to $1.3 billion earned during 2011.  On a 
diluted per common share basis, earnings for 2012 were $2.70, 
compared to $1.83 for 2011.  BB&T™s results of operations for 2012 produced a return on average assets of 1.14% and a 
return on average common shareholders™ equ
ity of 10.35% compared to 
prior year ratios of 0.82% and 7.49%, respectively.   
BB&T™s revenues for 2012 were $9.8 billion on a FTE basis, 
up 12.1% compared to 2011.  The increase in revenues was 
broad based, with $350 million of the increase attributable to
 higher net interest income and $707 million related to an 
increase in noninterest income.  Net intere
st income on a FTE basis was up 6.2% comp
ared to 2011, primarily the result of a 
23.1% decrease in interest expense compar
ed to 2011.  Noninterest income increas
ed 22.7% compared to
 2011, largely the 
result of record insurance, mortgage banking and investment banking and brokerage commission revenues. 
Credit costs continued to improve during 2012 as NPAs, excluding covered foreclosed property, declined $914 million, or 
37.3%, compared to 2011.  This decline 
included a $492 million decrease in NPLs 
and a $422 million decrease in foreclosed 
real estate and other property.  Net charge-offs for 2012, excluding covered, were $1.3 billion, a decrease of $334 million, or
 21.0%, compared to the prior year.  BB&T recorded a $1.0 b
illion provision for credit losses in 2012, excluding covered, 
compared to $1.1 billion in the prior year.  The ratio of the 
ALLL to net charge-offs excludi
ng covered was 1.50x for 2012 
compared to 1.32x in 2011.  Foreclosed property expenses declined $536 million, or 66.8%, during 2012, reflecting the 
impact of a more aggressive approach to reducing the inventory of foreclosed property that was implemented during the 
fourth quarter of 2011. 
BB&T™s total assets at December 31, 2012 were $183.9 billion, an
 increase of $9.3 billion, or
 5.3%, compared to December 
31, 2011.  The growth in total assets includes an increase of $7.2 billion in total loans and leases and $2.3 billion in the to
tal securities portfolio.  The growth in the loan and lease portfolio
 reflects broad-based growth, led by increases in the resident
ial mortgage, commercial and industrial and direct retail lending por
tfolios.  The increase in the total securities portfolio is 
primarily the result of purchases of investment securities that were
 made in the fourth quarter of 2012 in response to slowing 
loan growth forecasts. Total deposits at December 31, 2012 were 
$133.1 billion, an increase of
 $8.1 billion, or 6.5%, from
 December 31, 2011.  The 
increase in deposits was led by noninteres
t-bearing deposits, which increased $6.8 billion, or 26.4%, and money market and 
savings accounts, which increased $3.3 billion, or 7.4%.  These 
increases were partially offset by a decrease in certificates 
and other time deposits totaling $2.3 billion.  These changes 
resulted in a substantial improvement to deposit mix, with 
noninterest-bearing accounts representing 24
.4% of total deposits at December 31
, 2012, compared to
 20.6% at December 
31, 2011.  The cost of interest-bearing deposits for 2012 declined to 0.43%, a decline of 25 basis points from 0.68% for 2011. 
Total shareholders™ equity increased 21.4
% compared to December 31, 2011.  This
 increase was primarily driven by net 
proceeds of $2.1 billion of Tier 1 qualifying non-cumulative pe
rpetual preferred stock during 2012 and net income retained 
after dividends declared.  The Tier 1 co
mmon ratio was 9.3% at December 31, 2
012, compared to 9.4% at December 31, 
2011.  In addition, the 
Tier 1 risk-based capita
l and total risk-based ca
pital ratios were 11.0% and 13.9% at December 31, 
2012, respectively.  BB&T™s risk-based and tangible capital ratios remain well above regulatory standards for well-
capitalized banks.  As of December 31, 2
012, measures of tangible capital were not re
quired by the regulators and, therefore, 
were considered non-GAAP meas
ures.  Refer to the section titled ﬁCapitalﬂ herein for a discussion of how BB&T calculates 
and uses these measures in th
e evaluation of the Company. 
Reclassifications  In certain circumstances, reclassifications ha
ve been made to prior period information to conform to the 2012 presentation.  
Such reclassifications had no effect on previously reported shareholders™ equity or net income. 
Critical Accounting Policies 
The accounting and reporting policies of 
BB&T are in accordance with 
GAAP and conform to the accounting and reporting 
guidelines prescribed by bank regulatory authorities.  The fi
nancial position and results of operations are affected by 
management™s application of accounting polic
ies, including estimates, assumptions 
and judgments made to arrive at the 
carrying value of assets and liabilities a
nd amounts reported for revenues and expe
nses.  Different assumptions in the 
application of these policies could result in material changes in
 the consolidated financial position and/or consolidated resul
ts of operations and related disclosures.  
The more critical accounting and reporting po
licies include those related to the ACL, 
determining fair value of financial instruments, intangible assets and other purchase accounting related adjustments 
associated with mergers and acquisitions, costs and benefit ob
ligations associated with BB&T™s pension and postretirement 
benefit plans, and income taxes.  Understanding BB&T™s accounting policies is fundamental to understanding the 
consolidated financial position and consolidated results of 
operations.  Accordingly, BB&T™s significant accounting policies 
  32 
 and changes in accounting principles and 
effects of new accounting pronouncements
 are discussed in detail in Note 1 
ﬁSummary of Significant Accounting Policiesﬂ in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements.ﬂ 
The following is a summary of
 BB&T™s critical accounting policies that are high
ly dependent on estimates, assumptions and 
judgments.  These critical acco
unting policies are reviewed w
ith the Audit Committ
ee of BB&T™s Board of Directors on a 
periodic basis. 

ACL It is the policy of BB&T to maintain an ALLL and a RUFC 
that represent management™s best estimate of probable credit 
losses inherent in the portfolio at the balance sheet date.  Es
timates for loan and lease losse
s are determined by analyzing 
historical loan and lease losses, historical
 loan and lease migration to charge-off 
experience, current trends in delinquencies
 and charge-offs, expected cash flows on pur
chased loans, current assessment of pr
oblem loans and leases, the results of 
regulatory examinations, and changes in the size, composition and risk assessment of the loan and lease portfolio.  For TDRs, 
default expectations and estimated
 slower prepayment speeds that are specific to 
each of the restructured loan populations are 
incorporated in the determination of the ALLL.  Also incl
uded in management™s estimates for loan and lease losses are 
considerations with respect to 
the impact of current economic events, the outcom
es of which are uncertain.  These events may 
include, but are not limited to, fluctuations in overall interest rates, political conditions, legislation that may directly or
 indirectly affect the banking industry and economic conditions affecting specific geographical areas and industries in which 
BB&T conducts business.  The methodology used to determine an estimate for the RUFC is inherently similar to the 

methodology used in calculating the ALLL adjusted for factors 
specific to binding commitments, including the probability of 
funding and exposure at the time of funding.  A detailed discussion of the methodology used in determining the ALLL and 

the RUFC is included in Note 1 ﬁSummary of Significant A
ccounting Policiesﬂ in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements.ﬂ 
Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
 At December 31, 2012, the percentage of to
tal assets and total liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis was 
17.3% and 0.9%, respectively, including securities available for 
sale, trading securities, deriva
tives, LHFS, residential MSRs 
and private equity investments.  The vast majority of assets
 and liabilities carried at fair value are based on either quoted 
market prices or market prices for simila
r instruments.  At December 31, 2012, 6.3% 
of assets measured at fair value on a 
recurring basis, or 1.1% of total assets, were based on signifi
cant unobservable inputs.  See Note 18 ﬁFair Value Disclosuresﬂ 
in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statementsﬂ herein fo
r additional disclosures regarding the fair value of financial 
instruments. 
Securities 
BB&T generally utilizes a third-party pricing service in determ
ining the fair value of its available for sale and trading 
securities.  Fair value measurements are derived from market-b
ased pricing matrices that were developed using observable 
inputs that include benchmark yields, benchmark securities, repo
rted trades, offers, bids, issuer spreads and broker quotes.  
Management performs various procedures to evaluate the accuracy of the fair values provided by the third-party service.  
These procedures, which are performed independent of the responsible LOB, include comparison of pricing information 
received from the third party pricing service to other third part
y pricing sources, review of ad
ditional information provided b
y the third party pricing service and other third party sources fo
r selected securities, and back
-testing to compare the price 
realized on any security sales to the 
daily pricing information received from the 
third party pricing service.  The IPV 
committee, which provides oversight to BB&T™s enterprise-wide IPV function, is responsible for oversight of the comparison 

of pricing information received fr
om the third party pricing service to other th
ird party pricing source
s, approving tolerance 
limits determined by IPV for price comparison exceptions, re
viewing significant changes to pricing and valuation policies, 
and reviewing and approving the pricing decisions made on 
any illiquid and hard-to-price securities.  When market 
observable data is not available, which generally occurs due to 
the lack of liquidity for certain securities, the valuation of 
the 
security is subjective and may involve substantial judgment by management.  As of December 31, 2012, BB&T had 

approximately $994 million of available for sale securities, whic
h is less than 1% of total assets, valued using unobservable 
inputs, the majority of which were non-a
gency MBS securities that are covered by 
a loss sharing agreement with the FDIC. 
BB&T periodically reviews available-for-sale securities with an un
realized loss.  An unrealized loss exists when the current 
fair value of an individual security is less than its amortized co
st basis.  The purpose of the re
view is to consider the lengt
h of 
time and the extent to which the market value of a security 
has been below its amortized cost.  The primary factors BB&T 
considers in determining whether an impa
irment is other-than-temporary are long-
term expectations and recent experience 
regarding principal and interest payments, and BB&T™s intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not that the Company 
would be required to sell those securities before the 
anticipated recovery of the amortized cost basis. 
  33 
 MSRs 
BB&T has a significant mortgage loan servicing portfolio and 
related MSRs.  BB&T has two classes of MSRs for which it 
separately manages the economic risk: residential and commercial.
  Residential MSRs are primarily carried at fair value with 
changes in fair value recorded as a component of mortgage 
banking income.  BB&T uses various derivative instruments to 
mitigate the income statement effect of changes in fair value due to changes in valuation inputs and assumptions of its 
residential MSRs.  MSRs do not trade in an active, open mark
et with readily observable prices.  While sales of MSRs do 
occur, the precise terms and conditions typically are not readily
 available.  Accordingly, BB&T estimates the fair value of 
residential MSRs using an OAS valuation model to project MSR 
cash flows over multiple interest rate scenarios, which are 
then discounted at risk-adjusted rates.  The OAS model considers portfolio characteristics, contractually specified servicing 
fees, prepayment assumptions, delinquency rates, late charges, other ancillary revenue, costs to service and other economic 
factors.  BB&T reassesses and periodically adjusts the underlying inputs and assumptions in the OAS model to reflect market 
conditions and assumptions that a market participant would consider in valuing the MSR asset.   
Fair value estimates and assumptions are compared to industr
y surveys, recent market activ
ity, actual portfolio experience 
and, when available, observable market data
.  Due to the nature of the valuation inputs, MSRs are classified within Level 3 of 
the valuation hierarchy.  The value of MSRs
 is significantly affected by mortgage in
terest rates available in the marketplace, 
which influence mortgage loan prepayment speeds.  In general, during periods of declining interest rates, the value of MSRs 
declines due to increasin
g prepayments attributable to increased mortgage-refinance activity.  Conversely, during periods of 
rising interest rates, the value of MSRs generally increases 
due to reduced refinance activity.  Commercial MSRs are carried 
at the lower of cost or market
 and amortized over the estimated period that serv
icing income is expected to be received based 
on projections of the amount and timing of estimated future cash flows.  The amount and timing of servicing asset 
amortization is based on actual results and updated projections
.  Refer to Note 7 ﬁLoan Se
rvicingﬂ in the ﬁNotes to 
Consolidated Financial Statementsﬂ for quantitative disclosu
res reflecting the effect that changes in management™s 
assumptions would have on the fair value of MSRs.   
LHFS 
BB&T originates certain mortgage loans for sale to investors that 
are carried at fair value.  The fair value is primarily based
 on quoted market prices for securities backed by similar type
s of loans.  Changes in the fair value are recorded as a 
component of mortgage banking income, while the related origination costs are recognized in noninterest expense when 
incurred.  The changes in fair value of th
ese assets are largely driven by changes in interest rates subsequent to loan funding
 and changes in the fair value of servicin
g associated with the mortgage loan held for sale.  BB&T uses various derivative 
instruments to mitigate the economic effect of changes in fair value of the underlying loans. 
Derivative Assets and Liabilities  
BB&T uses derivatives to manage various financial risks.  The 
fair values of derivative financial instruments are determined 
based on quoted market prices, dealer quotes and internal pric
ing models that are primarily sensitive to market observable 
data.  BB&T mitigates the credit risk by subjecting counterpartie
s to credit reviews and approvals similar to those used in 
making loans and other extensions of credit.  In addition, ce
rtain counterparties are required to provide collateral to BB&T 
when their unsecured loss positions exceed ce
rtain negotiated limits.  The fair value of
 interest rate lock commitments, which 
are related to mortgage loan commitments, is based on quoted market prices adjusted for commitments that BB&T does not 
expect to fund and includes the value attributable to the net servicing fee. 
Private Equity and Similar Investments  
BB&T has private equity and similar investment
s that are carried at fair value.  Change
s in the fair value of these investments
 are recorded in other noninterest income
 each period.  In many cases there are 
no observable market values for these 
investments and management must estimate the fair value based on a comparison of the operating performance of the 
company to multiples in the marketplace for 
similar entities.  This analysis requires significant judgment and actual values in
 a sale could differ materially from those estimated.  As of 
December 31, 2012, BB&T had $323 
million of these investments, 
which represented less than 1% of total assets. 
Intangible Assets 
 BB&T™s mergers and acquisitions are accounted for using the 
acquisition method of accountin
g.  Under the acquisition 
method, BB&T is required to record the assets acquired, incl
uding identified intangible assets, and liabilities assumed at thei
r fair values, which often involves estimates based on third party va
luations, such as appraisals, or internal valuations based o
n discounted cash flow analyses or other valuation techniques, all of which are inherently subjective.  The amortization of 
identified intangible assets is based u
pon the estimated economic benefits to be
 received, which is also subjective.  
  34 
 Acquisitions typically result in goodwill, which is subject to o
ngoing periodic impairment tests based on the fair values of th
e reporting units to which the acquired goodw
ill relates.  Refer to Note 1 ﬁSummary of Significant Accounting Policiesﬂ in the 
ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statementsﬂ for a description of BB&T™s impairment testing process.  Management 
considers the sensitivity of the significant assumptions in its im
pairment analysis including consideration of a 10% change in 
estimated future cash flows or the discount rate for each reporting unit. 
Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligations 
 BB&T offers various pension plans and postretirement benefit plans to employees.  Calculation of the obligations and related 
expenses under these plans requires the use of actuarial valuation methods and assumptions.  Actuarial assumptions used in 
the determination of future values of plan assets and liabilities are subject to management judgment and may differ 
significantly if different assumptions are used.  The discount rate assumption used to measure the postretirement benefit 
obligations is set by reference to published high-quality bond 
indices, as well as certain hypothetical spot-rate yield curves.
  These yield curves were constructed from the underlying bond 
price and yield data collected 
as of the plan™s measurement 
date and are represented by a series of annualized, individual discount rates with durations ranging from six months to thirty 
years.  Each discount rate in the curve was derived from an equal weighting of the double A or higher bond universe, 
apportioned into distinct maturity groups.  For durations where no
 bond maturities were available, the discount rates for these
 maturities were extrapolated based on historical relationships 
from observable data in similar markets.  These indices and 
hypothetical curves give only an indicatio
n of the appropriate discount rate becaus
e the cash flows of the bonds comprising 
the indices and curves do not match the pr
ojected benefit payment stream of the plan
 precisely.  For this reason, BB&T also 
considers the individual characteristics of 
the plan, such as projected cash flow patterns and payment durations, when setting 
the discount rate.  Management evaluated the sensitivity changes th
at the expected return on plan assets and the discount rate 
would have on pension expense for 2013.  A decrease of 25 
basis points in the discount rate would result in additional 
pension expense of approximately $19 million for 2013.  Base
d on the balance of plan assets on December 31, 2012, a 
decrease of one percent in the expected return on plan asse
ts would result in an increase of approximately $30 million in 
pension expense for 2013.  Refer to Note 14 ﬁBenefit Plansﬂ
 in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statementsﬂ for 
disclosures related to BB&T™s benefit plans. 
Income Taxes 
 The calculation of BB&T™s income tax provision is complex and requires the use of estimates and judgments.  As part of the 
Company™s analysis and implementation of business strategies, consideration is given to the tax laws and regulations that 
apply to the specific facts and circumstances for any tax position under evaluation.  For tax positions that are uncertain in 
nature, management determines whether the tax position is more likely than not to be sustained upon examination.  For tax 
positions that meet this threshold, management then estimates
 the amount of the tax benefit to recognize in the financial 
statements.  Management closely monitors tax developments in order to evaluate the effect they may have on the Company™s 
overall tax position and the estimates and judgments used in determining the income tax provision and records adjustments as 

necessary. 
Analysis of Results of Operations  
Consolidated net income available to common shareholders totaled $1.9 billion for 2012, which generated basic EPS of $2.74 
and diluted EPS of $2.70.  Net income available to common shareholders for 2011 and 2010 was $1.3 billion and $816 
million, respectively.  Basic EPS was $1.85 in 2011 and $1.18 in 2010, while diluted EPS was $1.83 and $1.16 for 2011 and 
2010, respectively.  
Two important and commonly used measures of bank profitability ar
e return on average assets (net
 income as a percentage of 
average total assets) and return on average common shareholders™ 
equity (net income available to common shareholders as a 
percentage of average common shareholders™ equity).  BB&T™s 
returns on average assets were
 1.14%, 0.82%, and 0.54% for 
the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 an
d 2010, respectively.  The 
returns on average common shareholders™ equity were 
10.35%, 7.49%, and 4.85% fo
r the last three years. 
Net Interest Income and NIM
 Net interest income is BB&T™s primary source of revenue.  Ne
t interest income is influenced by a number of factors, 
including the volume, mix and maturity of interest-earning asse
ts and interest-bearing liabilities and the interest rates earne
d and paid thereon.  The difference betwee
n rates earned on interest-earning assets and the cost of funds (with a FTE 
adjustment made to tax-exempt items to provide comp
arability with taxable items) is measured by the NIM. 
  35 
 2012 compared to 2011 
For 2012, net interest income on an FTE-adjusted basis totaled 
$6.0 billion, compared with $5.7 billion in 2011.  Net interest 
income on an FTE-adjusted basis increased 6.2% in 2012 comp
ared to 2011.  The increase in net interest income was 
primarily driven by lower funding costs, which declined $319 million compared to 2011.  The improvement in funding costs 
reflects a 25 basis point reduction in the 
average cost of interest-bearing deposits fo
r 2012 compared to the prior year and th
e 2012 redemption of all junior subordinated debt to unconsolidated
 trusts.  Net interest income also benefited from the growth 
in average earning assets, which more than offset the negative impact of lower yields on new loans. 
The FTE-adjusted NIM is the pr
imary measure used in evaluating the gross profit margin from the portfolios of earning 
assets.  The FTE-adjusted NIM was 3.91% in
 2012 compared with 4.06% in 2011.  
The decline in the NI
M primarily reflects 
the runoff of higher yielding covered loans and lower yields on new loans, partially offset by the lower funding costs 
described above. 
Management expects NIM to be in the mid 3.70s% range in the first quarter of 2013 as a result of lower rates on new earning 
assets and the runoff of covered loans, partially offset by lower funding costs and improved asset mix.  Deposit costs are 
expected to continue to trend lower in 2013, which would benefit net interest income. 
The FTE yield on the total securities portf
olio was 2.64% for the year ended Decembe
r 31, 2012 compared
 to 2.67% for the 
prior year.  The decrease reflects a higher volume of lower yielding RMBS securities issued by GSEs. 

The average annualized FTE yield for 2012 for the total loan po
rtfolio was 5.35% compared to 
5.87% for the prior year.  The 
decrease was primarily due to the runoff of higher yielding c
overed loans and a higher volume of new loans originated at 
lower rates. 
The average rate paid on interest-bearing deposits dropped to 0.43% during 2012, from 0.68% in 2011.  This improvement 
was a result of lower rates on interest-bearing deposits, including
 a 56 basis point reduction in
 the cost of certificates and 
other time deposits and a 13 basis point reduction in the cost of money market and savings accounts. 
The rates paid on average short-term bo
rrowings declined from 0.27% in 2011 to
 0.26% during 2012
.  At December 31, 
2012, the targeted Federal funds rate was a range of zero percent to 0.25%.  The average rate on long-term debt during 2012 
was 3.02%, a decrease of 38 basis points compared to the prior year.  This reduction was primarily due to the redemption of 

all higher cost junior subordinated debt to unconsolidated trusts during 2012 and the related benefit associated with 
accelerated amortization of derivatives th
at were unwound in a gain position. 
2011 compared to 2010 
For 2011, net interest income on an FTE-adjusted basis totaled 
$5.7 billion, compared with $5.5 billion in 2010.  Net interest 
income on an FTE-adjusted basis increased 3.
6% in 2011 compared to 2010.  The increase in net interest income was driven 
by lower funding costs, which declined $418 million compared to 2010.  The improvement in funding costs reflects a more 
favorable mix of funding liabilities, benefits from the accelerat
ed amortization of derivatives 
that were unwound in a gain 
position and decreases in rates paid on deposits.  The improvement in funding costs more than offset lower yields on new 

loans and securities.  In addition, net interest income was hi
gher due to better performance from loans and securities acquired
 in the Colonial acquisition as cash flow expe
ctations improved from the prior estimates. 
The FTE-adjusted NIM is the pr
imary measure used in evaluating the gross profit margin from the portfolios of earning 
assets.  The FTE-adjusted NIM was 4.06% 
in 2011 compared with 4.03% in 2010.  This improvement primarily reflects the 
higher yields on covered loans and 
securities and lower funding costs. 
The FTE yield on the total securities portf
olio was 2.67% for the year ended Decembe
r 31, 2011 compared
 to 3.89% for the 
prior year.  The decrease was primarily the result of management™s efforts to deleverage and de-risk the portfolio during 

2010.  The securities purchased included floating rate and othe
r securities with lower yields.  The yield on the securities 
portfolio benefited from higher yields on covered securities du
e to the impact of duration adjustments in the prior year. 
The average annualized FTE yield for 2011 for the total loan po
rtfolio was 5.87% compared to 
5.88% for the prior year.  The 
slight decrease was primarily due to new loan volumes originated
 at lower rates, partially offset by the acquired loans from 
the Colonial transaction, which have produced higher 
yields due to better than 
expected performance.   
The average rate paid on interest-bearing deposits dropped to 0.68% during 2011, from 1.05% in 2010.  The decline was a 
result of the decrease in relatively higher-rate CDs and mana
gement™s ability to lower rates on other deposit products. 
  36 
 The rates paid on average short-term bo
rrowings declined from 0.28% in 2010 to
 0.27% during 2011
.  At December 31, 
2011, the targeted Federal funds rate was a range of zero percent to 0.25%.  The average rate on long-term debt during 2011 
was 3.40%, a decrease of 56 basis points 
compared to the prior year.  This reduction was due to new issuances at lower rates 
and the positive impact of accelerated amortization from cer
tain derivatives that were unwound in a gain position. 
Covered Assets and FDIC Loss Share Receivable
 In connection with the Colonial acquisition, Branch Bank entere
d into loss sharing agreements with the FDIC that outline the 
terms and conditions under which the FDIC will reimburse Branch 
Bank for a portion of the losses incurred on certain loans, 
OREO, certain investment securities and other assets (collectiv
ely, ﬁcovered assetsﬂ).  The FDIC™s obligation to reimburse 
Branch Bank for losses with respect to covered assets begi
ns with the first dollar of loss incurred.  The loss sharing 
agreement applicable to single family resi
dential mortgage loans expires in 2019.  The loss sharing agreement applicable to 
commercial loans and other covered assets expires in 2014; however, Branch Bank must reimburse the FDIC for gains and 
recoveries through August 2017.  The terms of the loss shari
ng agreement with respect to cer
tain non-agency RMBS provides 
that Branch Bank will be reimbursed by the FDIC for 95% of
 any and all losses.  For othe
r covered assets, the FDIC will 
reimburse Branch Bank for (1) 80% of losses incurred up to $5 billion and (2) 95% of losses in excess of $5 billion.  Gains 

and recoveries on covered assets will offset losses, or be paid 
to the FDIC, at the applicable loss share percentage at the tim
e of recovery.  At the conclusion of the loss share period should
 actual aggregate losses, excluding securities, be less than an 
amount determined in accordance with these agreements, BB&T 
will pay the FDIC a portion of the difference.  The fair 
value of the net reimbursement the Company expected to receive
 from the FDIC under those agreements was recorded as the 
FDIC loss share receivable at the date of 
acquisition.  The fair value of the FDIC 
loss share receivable was estimated using a 
discounted cash flow methodology. 
Acquired loans were aggregated into separate pools based upon common risk characteristics.  Each pool is considered a unit 
of account and the cash flows expected to be collected, credit 
losses and other relevant information are developed for each 
pool.  A summary of the accounting treatment related to change
s in credit losses on each loan pool and the related FDIC loss 
share asset follows. 
 If the estimated credit loss on a loan pool is increased: 
o The reduction in the net present value of the loan pool is recognized immediately as provision expense and 

an increase to the ALLL. 
o The FDIC loss share asset is increased by 80% of
 the adjustment to the allowance through income. 
 If the estimated credit loss on a loan pool is reduced: 
o If the loan pool has an allowance, the allowance is fi
rst reduced to $0 (and 80% of this reduction decreases 
the FDIC loss share asset) through income. 
o If the loan pool does not have an allowance (or it is first reduced to $0 and there remains additional 
expected cash flows), the excess of 
expected cash flows is recognized 
as a yield adjustment over the 
remaining expected life of the loan. 
o The decrease in expected reimbursement from the FDIC
 is recognized in income prospectively using a 
level yield methodology over the remaini
ng life of the loss share agreements. 
o The increase in the amount expected to be paid to the FDIC as a result of the aggregate loss calculation is 

recognized prospectively using a level yield met
hodology over the remainin
g life of the loss share 
agreements. 
The accounting treatment for covered 
securities is summarized below: 
 The discount established at acquisition is accreted over th
e expected life of the underly
ing securities using a level 
yield methodology. 
 Changes to the expected life of the securities are reco
gnized with a cumulative adjustment to the accretion 
recognized.  OTTI is determined using the same me
thodology as non-covered securities. 
  37 
  The income statement effect of the abov
e items is offset by the applicable loss share percentage in FDIC loss share 
income, net. 
The following table provides the carrying amount and estimated fair value of the components of the FDIC loss share 
receivable. 
Table 6
FDIC Loss Share Receivable 
               December 31, 
     2012
2011 
     Carrying Amount
Fair Value 
Carrying Amount 
 Fair Value 
     (Dollars in millions)
   Covered loans 
$ 1,107 
$ 751 
$ 1,532 
 $ 1,351 
  Covered securities 
  (553)
  (502)
  (396)
   (354)
  Aggregate loss calculation 
  (75)
  (100)
  (36)
   (87)
   FDIC loss share receivable 
$ 479 
$ 149 
$ 1,100 
 $ 910 
 The decrease in the carrying amount attributable to covered 
loans was due to the receipt of cash from the FDIC and the 
negative accretion due to the credit loss impr
ovement partially reduced by the offset to
 the provision for covered loans.  The 
change in the carrying amount attributable to covered securities was due to the offsets to the accretion of the discount and th
e amount of the increase in fair value of c
overed securities.  The change in the carry
ing amount attributable to the aggregate 
loss calculation is primarily due to accretion 
of the expected payment, which is incl
uded in the ﬁAccreti
on due to credit loss 
improvementﬂ below.  The fair values were based upon a discounted cash flow methodology that was consistent with the 
acquisition date methodology.  The fair value attributable to
 covered loans and the aggregate loss calculation changes over 
time due to the receipt of cash from th
e FDIC, updated credit loss assumptions and 
the passage of time.  The fair value 
attributable to covered securities was based upon the timing an
d amount that would be payable to the FDIC should they settle 
at the current fair value at the conc
lusion of the loss
 share agreement. 
The following table provides information related to the income statement impact of covered loans and securities and the 
FDIC loss sharing asset recognized in 
the Colonial acquisition.  The table excl
udes all amounts related to other assets 
acquired and liabilities assumed in the acquisition. 
Table 7
Revenue, Net of Provision, Impact from Covered Assets 
    Years Ended December 31,
      2012 
  2011  
 2010  
     (Dollars in millions)
   Interest income-covered loans 
$ 765 
$  1,053 
 $ 933 
  Interest income-covered securities 
  172 
  168 
   142 
   Total interest income 
  937 
  1,221 
   1,075 
  Provision for covered loans 
  (13)
  (71)
   (144)
  OTTI for covered securities 
  (4)
       FDIC loss share income, net 
  (318)
  (289)
   (116)
  Adjusted net revenue 
$ 602 
$  861 
 $ 815 
 FDIC loss share income, net: 
       Offset to provision for covered loans 
$ 11 
$  57 
 $ 115 
  Accretion due to credit loss improvement 
  (271)
  (297)
   (203)
  Offset to OTTI for covered securities 
  3        Accretion for securities 
  (61)
  (49)
   (28)
   Total 
$ (318)
$  (289)
 $ (116)
  2012 compared to 2011 
Interest income for 2012 on covered loans and securities 
acquired in the Colonial acquisition decreased $284 million 
compared to 2011, pr
imarily due to lower average covered loan balances
.  The yield on covered loans for 2012 was 18.91% 
compared to 19.15% in 
2011.  At December 31, 2012, the accretable yiel
d balance on covered loans was $881 million.  
Accretable yield represents the 
excess of expected future cash flows above th
e current net carrying amount of loans and will 
be recognized in income over the remaining life of the covered loans. 
  38 
 During 2012, BB&T reduced the accretable yield balance on c
overed loans by $72 million primarily due to changes in the 
expected lives of the underlying loans.  During 2011, BB&T reclassified $379 million from the nonaccretable balance to 
accretable yield on covered loans.  This
 reclassification was primarily the result 
of increased cash flow estimates resulting 
from improved loss expectations.  These adjustments are recogni
zed on a prospective basis over
 the remaining lives of the 
loan pools. 
The provision for covered loans was $13 million in 2012, a decrease of $58 million compared to 2011.  This decrease 
resulted from the quarterly reassessment process. 
FDIC loss share income, net was $29 million worse than 2011 primarily due to a lower offset to the provision for covered 
loans. 
2011 compared to 2010 
Interest income for 2011 on covered loans and securities 
acquired in the Colonial acquisition increased $146 million 
compared to 2010, which was offset by a de
crease in FDIC loss share income.  The major
ity of the increase is related to loans 
and reflects higher expected cash flows based on the quarterly 
cash flow reassessment process. 
 The yield on covered loans 
for 2011 was 19.15% compared 
to 13.22% in 2010.  At December 31, 2011, 
the accretable yield balance on these loans was 
$1.7 billion.  Accretable yield represents
 the excess of future cash flows above th
e current net carrying amount of loans and 
will be recognized into income over the remaining life of the 
covered and acquired loans.  The increase in interest income on 
securities compared to the prior 
year was primarily a result of security duration adjustments in the prior year, which is offse
t in FDIC loss share income. 
During 2011 and 2010, BB&T reclassified $379 million and $1
.2 billion, respectively, from the nonaccretable balance to 
accretable yield on covered loans.  These 
reclassifications were primarily the resu
lt of increased cash flow estimates resultin
g from improved loss expectations.  These amounts are recognized
 as prospective yield adjustments and result in increased 
interest income over the remaining lives of the loan pools. 
The provision for covered loans was $71 million in 2011, a decrease of $73 million compared to 2010.  The provision 
expenses recorded during 2011 and 2010 resulted from the qua
rterly reassessment process, 
which showed decreases in 
expected cash flows in certain loan pools that were partially offs
et by recoveries in other previously impaired loan pools.   
FDIC loss share income, net decreased 
$173 million compared to 2010 primarily due to the impact of cash flow 
reassessments that generated additional interest income an
d a reduction of amounts due from
 the FDIC as a result of 
decreased loss projections on covered loans. 
FTE Net Interest Income and Rate / Volume Analysis
 The following table sets forth the major components of net interest income and the related yields and rates for 2012, 2011 and 
2010, as well as the variances between the periods caused by changes in interest rates versus changes in volumes.  Changes 
attributable to the mix of assets and liabilities have been allocated proportionally between the changes due to rate and the 
changes due to volume. 
    Table 8FTE Net Interest Income and Rate / Volume Analysis (1
) 
Years Ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
                  2012 vs. 2011 
2011 vs. 2010 
      Average Balances 
Yield/Rate 
 Income/Expense 
Increase 
Change due to 
Increase 
Change due to 
      2012 
2011  2010  2012 
2011   2010   2012 
2011  2010  (Decrease)Rate 
Volume
(Decrease)Rate 
Volume
     (Dollars in millions) 
Assets 
                 Total securities, at amortized cost: (2) 
                  GSEs 
$ 1,601 $ 288 $ 568  1.64 % 1.52 %   3.67 %  $ 26 $ 4 $ 21 $ 22 $ $ 22 $ (17)$ (9)$ (8) RMBS issued by GSE 
  30,848   25,305   22,310  2.02   1.86    3.24     624   472   723   152   43   109   (251)  (338)  87  States and political subdivisions 
  1,851   1,895   2,047  5.83   5.72    5.49     108   109   112   (1)  2   (3)  (3)  5   (8) Non-agency RMBS 
  346   528   1,174  5.76   6.72    5.87     20   35   69   (15)  (5)  (10)  (34)  9   (43) Other securities 
  505   658   313  1.65   1.55    2.16     8   10   7   (2)  1   (3)  3   (2)  5  Covered securities 
  1,183   1,249   1,198  14.53   13.46    11.84     172   168   142   4   13   (9)  26   20   6   Total securities 
  36,334   29,923   27,610  2.64   2.67    3.89     958   798   1,074   160   54   106   (276)  (315)  39 Other earning assets (3) 
  3,359   3,207   2,933  0.91   0.62    0.55     31   20   17   11   10   1   3   1   2 Loans and leases, net of unearned income: (4)(5) 
                  Commercial: 
                   Commercial and industrial 
  36,966   34,153   32,028  3.96   4.23    4.45     1,464   1,446   1,427   18   (96)  114   19   (72)  91   CRE-other 
  10,779   11,139   12,056  3.81   3.81    3.87     411   425   465   (14)    (14)  (40)  (7)  (33)  CRE-residential ADC 
  1,665   2,769   4,693  3.76   3.51    3.64     63   97   171   (34)  7   (41)  (74)  (6)  (68) Direct retail lending 
  15,270   13,850   14,033  4.87   5.22    5.36     744   722   751   22   (50)  72   (29)  (19)  (10) Sales finance  
  7,680   7,202   6,766  3.97   4.88    5.87     305   352   397   (47)  (69)  22   (45)  (69)  24  Revolving credit    2,217   2,106   2,032  8.41   8.77    8.74     186   185   178   1   (8)  9   7   1   6  Residential mortgage 
  22,623   18,782   15,965  4.37   4.80    5.38     989   902   859   87   (86)  173   43   (99)  142  Other lending subsidiaries 
  9,525   8,280   7,778  11.04   11.51    11.46     1,051   953   892   98   (40)  138   61   4   57   Total loans and leases held for investment (excluding cov
ered loans) 
  106,725   98,281   95,351  4.88   5.17    5.39     5,213   5,082   5,140   131   (342)  473   (58)  (267)  209  Covered loans 
  4,045   5,498   7,059  18.91   19.15    13.22     765   1,053   933   (288)  (13)  (275)  120   357   (237)  Total loans and leases held for investment 
  110,770   103,779   102,410  5.40   5.91    5.93     5,978   6,135   6,073   (157)  (355)  198   62   90   (28) LHFS 
  2,963   2,183   2,377  3.42   3.75    3.80     101   82   90   19   (8)  27   (8)  (1)  (7)  Total loans and leases 
  113,733   105,962   104,787  5.35   5.87    5.88     6,079   6,217   6,163   (138)  (363)  225   54   89   (35)  Total earning assets 
  153,426   139,092   135,330  4.61   5.06    5.36     7,068   7,035   7,254   33   (299)  332   (219)  (225)  6   Nonearning assets 
  24,676   23,874   24,328                     Total assets 
$ 178,102 $ 162,966 $ 159,658                  Liabilities and Shareholders™ Equity
                  Interest-bearing deposits: 
                  Interest-checking 
$ 19,904 $ 18,614 $ 16,477  0.12   0.16    0.17     25   30   29   (5)  (7)  2   1   (2)  3  Money market and savings 
  46,927   41,287   34,942  0.18   0.31    0.50     85   129   175   (44)  (60)  16   (46)  (74)  28  Certificates and other time deposits 
  31,647   28,825   33,699  1.01   1.57    2.12     319   453   715   (134)  (175)  41   (262)  (168)  (94) Foreign office deposits - interest-bearing 
  214   647   1,913  0.11   (0.37)   (0.11)      (2)  (2)  2   1   1     (2)  2   Total interest-bearing deposits 
  98,692   89,373   87,031  0.43   0.68    1.05     429   610   917   (181)  (241)  60   (307)  (246)  (61)Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase a
greements and 
                  short-term borrowed funds 
  3,408   5,189   9,022  0.26   0.27    0.28     9   14   26   (5)  (1)  (4)  (12)  (1)  (11)Long-term debt 
  20,651   22,257   21,653  3.02   3.40    3.96     624   757   856   (133)  (81)  (52)  (99)  (122)  23   Total interest-bearing liabilities 
  122,751   116,819   117,706  0.86   1.18    1.53     1,062   1,381   1,799   (319)  (323)  4   (418)  (369)  (49)  Noninterest-bearing deposits 
  28,925   22,945   19,742                    Other liabilities 
  6,949   5,935   5,324                    Shareholders™ equity 
  19,477   17,267   16,886                     Total liabilities and shareholders™ equity 
$ 178,102 $ 162,966 $ 159,658                  Average interest rate spread 
     3.75 % 3.88 %   3.83 %          NIM/ net interest income 
      3.91 % 4.06 %   4.03 %  $ 6,006 $ 5,654 $ 5,455 $ 352 $ 24 $ 328 $ 199 $ 144 $ 55 Taxable-equivalent adjustment 
            $ 149 $ 147 $ 135       (1) Yields are stated on a taxable equivalent basis assu
ming tax rates in effect for the periods presented. 
 (2) Total securities include securities available for sale and sec
urities held to maturity. 
(3) Includes Federal funds sold, securities purchased under resa
le agreements or similar arrangements, interest-beari
ng deposits with banks, trading securities, FHLB stock and o
ther earning assets.  
(4) Loan fees, which are not material for any of the periods s
hown, have been included for rate calculation p
urposes.  
(5) Nonaccrual loans have been included in the average balances
.  
39  40 
 Provision for Credit Losses
 2012 compared to 2011 
The provision for credit losses recorded by BB&T in 2012 was 
$1.1 billion, a decrease of $133 
million, or 11.2%, compared 
to the prior year.  Included in the provision for credit losses 
during 2012 was $13 million related to covered loans.  The 
decrease in the provision for credit losses
 during 2012 compared to 2011 was prim
arily due to improving credit trends and 
outlook, as net charge-offs in 2012 decreased 22.0% compared to the prior year.  Improving credit conditions also resulted in 
an increase in the ratio of the ALLL to net charge-offs, whic
h increased to 1.56 for 2012, compared to 1.36 for 2011.  
Net charge-offs were 1.14% of average loan
s and leases (or 1.15% excluding covered 
loans) for 2012 comp
ared to 1.57% of 
average loans and leases (or 1.59% excluding covered loans) during 2011.  Net charge-offs for 2011 included $87 million 
related to the transfer and sale of residential mortgage loans 
in the second quarter.  Excluding the charge-off related to this
 transfer, net charge-offs were 1.50% of average loans and leases
 for 2011.  The largest decreas
es in the provision for credit 
losses for 2012 were in the residential mortgage and CRE - ADC portfolios. 
2011 compared to 2010 
The provision for credit losses recorded by BB&T in 2011 wa
s $1.2 billion compared with $2.6 billion in 2010, which 
represents a decrease of 54.9% during 2011.  Included in the provision for credit losses during 2011 was $71 million related 
to covered loans.  The provision for credit losses recorded fo
r covered loans reflects lower expected cash flows on certain 
loan pools compared to the orig
inal estimates.  Approximately 80% of this provision for credit losses is offset through a 
credit to noninterest income based on the provisions of the FDIC
 loss sharing agreements.  The 
decrease in the provision for 
credit losses during 2011 compar
ed to 2010 was primarily due to improving cr
edit trends and outlook, as net charge-offs in 
2011 decreased 34.3% 
compared to 2010. 
Net charge-offs were 1.57% of average loan
s and leases (or 1.59% excluding covered 
loans) for 2011 comp
ared to 2.41% of 
average loans and leases (or 2.59% excluding covered loans) during 2010.  Net charge-offs for 2011 included $87 million 
related to the transfer and sale of residential mortgage loan
s in the second quarter.  This 
compares to $605 million of net 
charge-offs recorded in 2010 related to commercial and residentia
l mortgage loans that were transferred to the held for sale 
portfolio.  Excluding these items, net charge-offs were 1.50% 
and 1.97% of average loans an
d leases for 2011 and 2010, 
respectively.  The largest decreases in 
the provision for credit losses for 2011 were in the commercial and residential 
mortgage portfolios. 
Noninterest Income 
 Noninterest income is a significant contributor to BB&T™s financ
ial results.  Noninterest income includes insurance income, 
service charges on deposit accounts, mortgage banking income, investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions, 
trust and investment advisory revenues, gains and losses on s
ecurities transactions, and commissions and fees derived from 
other activities.  Management continues to focus on diversifying
 its sources of revenue to further reduce BB&T™s reliance on 
traditional spread-based interest income, 
as fee-based activities are a relatively st
able revenue source during periods of 
changing interest rates. 
   41 
 The following table provides a breakdown of BB&T™s noninterest income: 
                Table 9
Noninterest Income 
            % Change
             2012 
 2011 
     Years Ended December 31,
 v. 
 v. 
     2012
2011 
 2010 
 2011 
 2010 
     (Dollars in millions)
         Insurance income 
$ 1,359 
$ 1,044 
$ 1,041 
 30.2 
%  0.3 
%  Mortgage banking income 
  840 
  436 
  521 
 92.7 
  (16.3)
   Service charges on deposits 
  566 
  563 
  618 
 0.5 
  (8.9)
   Investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions
  365 
  333 
  352 
 9.6 
  (5.4)
   Bankcard fees and merchant discounts 
  236 
  204 
  177 
 15.7 
  15.3 
   Checkcard fees 
  185 
  271 
  274 
 (31.7)
  (1.1)
   Trust and investment advisory revenues 
  184 
  173 
  159 
 6.4 
  8.8 
   Income from bank-owned life insurance 
  116 
  122 
  123 
 (4.9)
  (0.8)
   FDIC loss share income, net 
  (318)
  (289)
  (116)
 10.0 
  149.1 
   Securities gains (losses), net 
  (12)
  62 
  554 
 (119.4)
  (88.8)
   Other income 
  299 
  194 
  254 
 54.1 
  (23.6)
    Total noninterest income 
$ 3,820 
$ 3,113 
$ 3,957 
 22.7 
  (21.3)
  2012 compared to 2011 
Noninterest income was $3.8 billion for 2012, up 22.7% compar
ed to 2011.  This increase was driven by record income 
generated by BB&T™s insurance, mortgage banking and investme
nt banking and brokerage lines of business.  In addition, 
bankcard fees and merchant discounts and other income increased
 compared to the prior year.  These increases were partially 
offset by lower checkcard fees, a decrea
se in income related to the FDIC loss 
share receivable and a reduction in net 
securities income.  The major categories 
of noninterest income and 
fluctuations in these amounts are discussed in the 
following paragraphs.  These fluctuations include the impact of acquisitions.  
 Income from BB&T™s insurance agency/brokerage operations wa
s the largest source of noni
nterest income in 2012.  
Insurance income was up 30.2% compared to 2011, primarily 
due to the acquisition of Crump Insurance on April 2, 2012, 
which added approximately $234 million in revenues during 2012.  The remainder of the increase in insurance income is 
attributable to the impact of other acquisitions that closed du
ring the fourth quarter of 2011 and firming market conditions.  
 Mortgage banking income totaled $840 million in 2012 compared to $436 million in 2011.  The increase in mortgage 
banking income was primarily due to an increase in residential mortgage production revenues totaling $378 million, which 
was driven by higher gains on residential mortgage production and sales.  Included in mortgage banking income for 2012 is a 
negative valuation adjustment of $32 million related to changes 
in assumptions for residential MSRs that are carried at fair 
value.  Approximately $22 million of the decline in the valua
tion of the residential MSRs was due to a revision in the 
servicing cost assumption based on an expectation of higher costs that continue to impact the industry.  The remainder of the 
net decrease is primarily due to the impact of an increase in OAS assumption changes partially offset by prepayment speed 
changes, which are reflective of the current MSR market.  This
 decrease was more than offset by gains of $128 million from 
derivative financial instruments used to manage the economic risk.   
Service charges on deposit accounts, which totaled $566 mi
llion in 2012, represent BB&T™
s third largest category of 
noninterest revenue.  Service charge revenues were essentially fl
at compared to the prior year, 
reflecting the impact of pricin
g changes for routine services related to re
tail and commercial transaction deposit products, such as monthly maintenance fees 
and commercial transaction deposit products, implemented in 2011 
that were designed to offset 
a reduction in service charges 
that occurred in 2010 as a result of a change in overdraft policies. 

Investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions increased $32 million, or 9.6%, compared to 2011.  This increase 
was largely driven by a higher level of investment banking activities and higher brokerage fees and commissions.  Checkcard 
fees decreased $86 million, or 31.7%, 
due to the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act, which was implemented on 
October 1, 2011 and limited the rate banks could assess for debit card transactions.  Bankcard fees and merchant discounts 

increased $32 million in 2012, primarily 
the result of higher volumes for both retail and commercial bankcard activities.   
FDIC loss share income reflects accretio
n of the FDIC receivable due to cred
it loss improvement (including expense 
associated with the aggregate 
loss calculation) and accretion related to covered 
securities, partially reduced by the offset to
   42 
 the provision for covered loans.  Covered loans have experienced better performance than originally anticipated, which has 
resulted in the recognition of additional interest income on a 
level yield basis over the expected life of the corresponding 
loans.  A significant portion of this increase in interest income
 is offset by a reduction in 
noninterest income recorded in 
FDIC loss share income.  For 2012, n
oninterest income was reduced by $271 million related to improvement in loan 
performance, compared to a reduction of $297 million in 2011.  
These decreases in income were partially offset by increases 
of $11 million and $57 million, respectively, which reflected 80% of the provision for credit losses recorded on covered loans 
for 2012 and 2011.  
 BB&T recognized $12 million in net securities losses during 2012, 
compared to $62 million of net securities gains in 2011.  
The net securities losses during 2012 included $9 million of OTTI charges and $3 million of net losses realized from 
securities sales.  The net securities gains during 2011 included 
$174 million of net gains realized from securities sales and 
$112 million of OTTI charges.  The OTTI charges recogni
zed during 2011 were due to 
weaker actual and forecasted 
collateral performance for non-agency RMBS.  Refer to th
e ﬁAnalysis of Financial Condition Œ Investment Activitiesﬂ 
section for a detailed discussion of strategies executed during the years presented. 
 Other income increased $105 million in 2012 compared to 2011, primarily due to $149 million of losses and write-downs 
recorded in 2011 related to the sale of commercial NPLs.  Th
is increase was partially offset by $42 million of increased 
write-downs on affordable housing investments in 2012 due to revised estimates and processes used to value these 

investments.
 2011 compared to 2010 
Noninterest income was $3.1 billion for 2011, down 21.3% compared to 2010.  The decline in noninterest revenue was due to 
fewer securities gains, lower income related to the FDIC loss 
share receivable, lower service 
charges on deposit accounts and 
lower mortgage banking revenues, while bankcard fees and merc
hant discounts and trust and investment advisory revenues 
grew compared to the prior year.  The major categories of noninterest income and fluctuations in these amounts are discussed 
in the following paragraphs.  These fluctuations include the impact of acquisitions.  
 Insurance income was up slightly in 2011 compared to 2010, as pricing for premiums remained soft throughout the year.   
Service charges on deposit accounts totaled $563 million in 2011, a decline of $55 million, or 8.9%, compared to 2010.  The 
decrease in 2011 was largely a re
sult of a decline in overdraft fees as a resu
lt of mid-2010 changes to BB&T™s overdraft 
policies that were partially in response to new regulation. 
 In 2011, management implemented pricing changes for routine 
services related to retail and commercial transaction deposit pr
oducts, such as monthly maintenance fees and check enclosure 
fees, which partially offset the reduction in overdraft fees. 
 Mortgage banking income totaled $436 million in 2011 compared to $521 million in 2010, a decrease of $85 million.  This 

decrease was primarily due to a decline of $97 million in residential mortgage production revenues due to lower volumes and 

pricing in 2011 and the decision in the third quarter of 2010 to retain a portion of 10 to 15 year mortgage production.  This 
decline was partially offset by higher servicing revenues as a 
result of growth in the servicing portfolio and higher revenues 
from commercial mortgage banking revenues.  Included in 
mortgage banking income for 2011 is a negative valuation 
adjustment of $341 million related to changes in assumptions fo
r residential MSRs that are carried at fair value.  This was 
more than offset by gains of $394 million from derivative financial instruments used to manage the economic risk.  
Approximately $284 million of the decline in the valuation of 
the residential MSRs was due to increases in the prepayment 
speed assumption as a result of a decrease in interest rates.
  During 2011, management also revised its servicing cost 
assumption based on changes to regulations and industry standards that impact the mortgage servicing industry.  The change 

in the servicing cost assumption resulted in a decline of approximately $30 million in the valuation of the mortgage servicing 
asset. Investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions decreased $19 million, or 5.4%, compared to 2010.  This decrease 
was largely due to weaker market conditions during
 the year and a record fourth quarter in 2010.
 Checkcard fees decreased slightly in 201
1 compared to 2010, due to
 the Durbin Amendment to the Dodd-Frank Act.  The 
decrease resulting from the implementation was more than offset by higher volumes during the year.   
Bankcard fees and merchant discounts increased $27 million in 2011.  The increased bankcard fees were the result of higher 
volumes for both retail and commercial bankcard activities.   
Trust and investment advisory revenues are based on the types of services provided as well as the overall value of the assets 
managed, which is affected by stock market conditions.  In 
2011, trust and investment advisory revenues increased $14 
million, or 8.8%, due to improved market conditions.
   43 
 FDIC loss share income reflects the offset
 to the provision for covered loans, accre
tion of the FDIC receivable due to credit 
loss improvement and accretion related to covered securities.
  During 2011 and 2010, covered loans experienced better 
performance than originally anticipated resulting in additional 
interest income.  A significant portion of the increases in 
interest income for 2011 and 2010 was offset by reductions in noninterest income.  For 2011 and 2010, noninterest income 
was reduced by $297 million and $203 million, respectively, rela
ted to improvement in loan performance.  These decreases 
in income were partially offset by increases of $57 mil
lion and $115 million, respectively, which reflected 80% of the 
provision for credit losses recorded on covered loans for 2011 and 2010.  
 BB&T recognized $62 million in net securities gains during 2
011.  The net securities gains during 2011 included $174 
million of net gains realized from secur
ities sales and $112 million of OTTI charges.  The OTTI charges recognized during 
2011 are due to weaker actual 
and forecasted collateral perf
ormance for non-agency RMBS.  BB&T recognized $554 million 
in net securities gains during 2010.  The net securities gains re
cognized in 2010 included $585 million of net gains realized 
from securities sales and $31 million of losses as a result of 
OTTI charges.  The large decrease in securities gains during 
2011 compared to 2010 reflects 
the results of the balance sheet deleveraging strategy that was executed during the second 
quarter of 2010 and the de-risking of the investment portfolio that began during the third quarter of 2010 and was completed 
in the fourth quarter.  Refer to the ﬁAnalysis of Financial 
Condition Œ Investment Activitiesﬂ section for a detailed discussio
n of strategies executed duri
ng the years presented.  
Other income decreased $60 million in 2011 compared to 2010, primarily due to losses and write-downs on commercial 
loans that were transferred to the LHFS portfolio in 2010 in 
connection with management™s NPL disposition strategy.  There 
was a total of $149 million of losses and write-downs recorded in 2011 compared to $90 million in 2010.
 Noninterest Expense 
 The following table provides a breakdown of BB&T™s noninterest expense:
  Table 10
Noninterest Expense 
            % Change
             2012 
 2011 
      Years Ended December 31,
 v. 
 v. 
      2012
2011 
2010 
 2011 
 2010 
      (Dollars in millions)
                           Personnel expense 
$ 3,125 
$ 2,727 
$ 2,616 
 14.6 
%  4.2 
%  Occupancy and equipment expense 
  650 
  616 
  608 
 5.5 
  1.3 
   Loan-related expense 
  283 
  227 
  201 
 24.7 
  12.9 
   Foreclosed property expense 
  266 
  802 
  747 
 (66.8)
  7.4 
   Regulatory charges 
  159 
  212 
  211 
 (25.0)
  0.5 
   Professional services 
  156 
  174 
  170 
 (10.3)
  2.4 
   Software expense 
  138 
  118 
  117 
 16.9 
  0.9 
   Amortization of intangibles 
  110 
  99 
  122 
 11.1 
  (18.9)
   Merger-related and restructuring charges, net 
  68 
  16 
  69 
NM  (76.8)
   Other expense 
  873 
  811 
  809 
 7.6 
  0.2 
    Total noninterest expense 
$ 5,828 
$ 5,802 
$ 5,670 
 0.4 
  2.3 
  2012 compared to 2011
 Personnel expense is the largest component of noninterest e
xpense and includes salaries, wages and incentives, as well as 
pension and other employee benefit costs.  Total personnel expense increased 14.6% during 2012, primarily the result of the 
Crump Insurance and BankAtlantic acquisitions during 2012.  Other factors contributing to this increase include normal 
salary increases, higher production-related incentives and commissions and other performance incentives, and higher pension 
expense related to certain changes in actuarial assumptions.  
Additional disclosures relating to BB&T™s benefit plans can be 
found in Note 14 ﬁBenefit Plansﬂ in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements.ﬂ
 Occupancy and equipment expense increased $34 million, or 5.5%
, compared to 2011 primarily due to the acquisitions of 
Crump Insurance and BankAtlantic.   
Loan-related expense totaled $283 million, an increase of 
$56 million compared to the pr
ior year.  This increase was 
primarily the result of higher investor-owned loan expense and provisions for higher mortgage repurchase reserves.   
  44 
 Foreclosed property expenses include the gain or loss on sa
le of foreclosed property, valuation adjustments resulting from 
updated appraisals, and the ongoing expense of maintaining foreclosed properties.  Foreclosed property expense decreased 
$536 million, or 66.8% in 2012, primarily reflecting the impact of a more aggressive approach to reducing the inventory of 

foreclosed property that was undertaken in the fourth quarter of 2011.
 Regulatory charges decreas
ed $53 million in 2012 due to improved credit quality, which led to lower deposit insurance 
premiums.   
Merger-related and restructuring charges in
creased $52 million compared 
to the prior year as a result of the Crump Insurance 
and BankAtlantic acquisitions.   

Other expense increased $62 million compared to 2011, primarily the result of higher advertising expenses, an increase in 
depreciation expense related to assets under operating leases to customers driven by growth in BB&T™s equipment financing 
business, higher operating charge-offs in 2012 and increased referral fee expense.  The remaining noninterest expenses 
increased a net $13 million, or 3.3%, compared to 2011.  Refer to Table 10 for additional detail on fluctuations in other 
categories of noninterest expense. 
Management currently expects that
 total noninterest expense should decline in the range of 1% to 2% in 2013 compared with 
2012, largely driven by lower credit-related expenses. 

2011 compared to 2010 
Personnel expense increased $111 million, or 4.2%, during 2011 compared to 2010.  This increase included an additional $90 
million for salaries and wages due to customary salary increases and higher incentive expense resulting from improved 
performance and production-related businesses.  The increase also included higher pension and employee benefits expense of 
$21 million.
 Foreclosed property expense totaled $802 million in 2011, an 
increase of $55 million compared 
to 2010.  This increase was 
largely due to an increase of 
$78 million for losses and write-downs, partially offset by a decrease of $23 million for 
maintenance and repair costs.  Included in the losses and 
write-downs for 2011 was a $220 million liquidity valuation 
adjustment in the fourth quarter related to management™s decision to implement a more aggressive shorter period disposition 
strategy for foreclosed properties.  The carrying value of BB&T™s inventory of foreclosed property decreased $723 million, 

or 57.4%, during 2011.  This decline reflects management™s more aggressive efforts to liquidate properties and fewer inflows.
 Loan-related expense totaled $227 million, an increase of 
$26 million compared to 2010.  
This increase includes a $12 
million increase for losses related to repurchase reserves on BB&T™s investor owned servicing portfolio. 
The remaining noninterest expenses decreased a net $60 million,
 or 2.8%, compared to 2010. 
 This decrease includes lower 
merger-related and restructuring charges, as 2010 included charges related to the Colonial acquisition and systems 
conversion.  In addition, amortization of 
intangibles declined by $23 million, as 
intangibles are amortized on an accelerated 
basis.  Noninterest expense for 2011 also includes a $16 million loss from the sale of leveraged leases and an $11 million 

charge for an increase to the indemnification reserve related to 
the 2008 sale of Visa stock.  These increases were partially 
offset by $19 million in lower advertising and other marketing expenses. 
Merger-Related and Restructuring Charges 
 BB&T recorded certain merger-related and 
restructuring charges during the years 2
012, 2011 and 2010.  These charges are 
reflected in BB&T™s Consolidated Statements of
 Income as a category of noninterest expense.
 Merger-related and restructuring expenses 
or credits include: severance and personne
l-related costs or credits, which typically
 occur in corporate support and data processing functions; occupancy and equipment charges or credits, which relate to costs 
or gains associated with lease terminations, obsolete equipm
ent write-offs, and the sale of duplicate facilities and equipment;
 and other merger-related and re
structuring charges or credits, 
which include expenses necessary
 to convert and combine the 
acquired branches and operations of merged companies, direct 
media advertising related to the acquisitions, asset and supply 
inventory write-offs, investment banking advisory fees and other similar charges. 
At December 31, 2012 and 2011, there were
 $11 million and $20 million, respectively,
 of merger-related and restructuring 
accruals.  Merger-related and restructuring accruals are established when the costs are 
incurred or once all 
requirements for a
 plan to dispose of certain business func
tions have been approved by management. 
 In general, a major portion of accrued 
costs are utilized in conj
unction with or immediately follo
wing the systems conversion, when
 most of the duplicate positions 
are eliminated and the terminat
ed employees begin to receive severance.  Ot
her accruals are utilized over time based on the 
sale, closing or disposal of duplicate facilities or equipment or 
the expiration of lease contracts.  Merger and restructuring 
  45 
 accruals are re-evaluated periodically and 
adjusted as necessary.  The remaining acc
ruals at December 31, 2012 are generally 
expected to be utilized during 2013, unless they relate to specific contracts that expire in later years. 
Provision for Income Taxes  
BB&T™s provision for income taxes totaled $764 million, $296 million and $115 million for 2012, 2011 and 2010, 
respectively.  BB&T™s effective tax rates for the years ended 2012, 2011 and 2010 were 27.4%, 18.2% and 11.9%, 
respectively.  The increases in the effec
tive tax rate for 2012 compared to 2011, and 2011 compared to 2010, reflect higher 
levels of pre-tax earnings relative 
to permanent income tax differences. 
BB&T has extended credit to and invested in the obligations of states and municipalities and their agencies, and has made 
other investments and loans that produce tax-exempt income.  The income generated from these investments, together with 
certain other transactions that have favorable tax treatment, have reduced BB&T™s overall effective tax rate from the statutory
 rate in all periods presented. 
Management currently expects the effective tax rate in the first qu
arter of 2013 to be similar to the effective tax rate in the
 fourth quarter of 2012. 

Refer to Note 13 ﬁIncome Taxesﬂ in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statementsﬂ for a reconciliation of the effective tax 
rate to the statutory tax rate and a discussion 
of uncertain tax positions and other tax matters. 
Segment Results  
BB&T™s operations are divided into six reportable business segments: Community Banking, Residential Mortgage Banking, 
Dealer Financial Services, Specialized Le
nding, Insurance Services and Financial Services.  These segments have been 
identified based on BB&T™s organizational structure.  See Note 21 ﬁOperating Segmentsﬂ in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated 
Financial Statementsﬂ herein for additional disclosures relate
d to BB&T™s operating segments, the internal accounting and 
reporting practices used to manage these segments and financial disclosures for these segments. 
Fluctuations in noninterest income and noninterest expense incurred directly by the segments are more fully discussed in the 
ﬁNoninterest Incomeﬂ 
and ﬁNoninterest Expenseﬂ sections above. 
2012 compared to 2011 
Community Banking 
 Community Banking had a network of 1,832 banking offices at the end of 2012, an increase of 53 offices compared to 
December 31, 2011.  The increas
e in offices was driven by the BankAtlan
tic acquisition and de novo branch openings, 
partially offset by the closing of low volume branches.  Community Banking results include BankAtlantic since the systems 

conversion in October 2012.  Community Banking net income was $752 million in 2012, up $216 million, or 40.3%, 
compared to 2011. 
Segment net interest income for Community Banking totaled $3.4 billion in 2012 compared to $3.6 billion in 2011.  The 
decrease in segment net interest income was primarily attribut
able to lower funding credits on deposits as the result of 
declining interest rates.  This decrease was partially offset 
by loan growth and improvement in the deposit mix, which was 
the result of an increase in noninterest-bearing
 deposits and a decrease in client CDs.  
The allocated provision for loan and lease losses increased by $7
7 million, or 13.1%, to $666 million in 2012, primarily due 
to loan growth and reserve rate adjustment
s, partially offset by lower charge-offs. 
Noninterest income in Community Banking increased $109 million, 
or 10.7%, to $1.1 billion in 
2012, primarily due to higher 
bankcard and merchant fees, as well as losses on commercial LH
FS in the prior year.  The incr
ease in noninterest income was 
partially offset by lower debit interchange and overdraft fees.  Noninterest income allocated from other segments, which is 
reported as intersegment net referral fees (ﬁreferral feesﬂ), in
creased by $50 million, or 37.9% in 2012, driven by higher 
referrals for residential mortgage lending as originations grew. 
Noninterest expense incurred by Community Banking during 2012 
declined $526 million, or 22.3%, to $1.8 billion.  This 
decline was primarily due to lower foreclosed property expense and regulatory charges, partially offset by higher net 
occupancy expense and personnel expense.  Allocated corporate ex
pense increased $126 million, or 14.0%, to $1.0 billion in 
2012, primarily due to increase
s in loan administration, operations and marketing expense. 
  46 
 Residential Mortgage Banking 
 BB&T™s mortgage originations totaled $33.1 billion in 2012, 
up $9.4 billion, or 39.9%, compared to 2011.  BB&T™s 
residential mortgage servicing portfolio, which includes both retained loans and loans serviced for third parties, totaled 
$101.3 billion at the end of 2012, an increase of 10.5%, co
mpared to $91.6 billion at December 31, 2011.  Residential 
Mortgage Banking net income was $366 million in 2012, compared to a net loss of $15 million in 2011. 
Segment net interest income in Residential Mortgage Banking increased $81 million, or 27.8%, to $372 million in 2012.  The 
increase in segment net interest income was primarily due to growth in LHFS, growth in loans held for investment and higher 
spreads to funding costs on loans held for investment.  These increases in segment net interest income were partially offset by
 lower spreads to funding costs on LHFS. 
The allocated provision for loan and lease losses was $95 million for 2012, down $225 million, or 70.3%, compared to $320 
million in 2011.  The decrease in provision expense reflects impr
oved credit quality in the loan portfolio, as well as the sale
 of NPLs in the second quarter of 2011, which resulted in higher charge-offs.  Net charge-offs of $133 million were recorded 

in 2012 compared to $264 million in 2011. 
Noninterest income in Residential Mortgage Banking increased 
from $349 million in 2011 to $753 million in 2012.  This 
increase was primarily due to higher mortgage loan production and sales and higher margins than in the prior year. 

Noninterest expense increased $92 million, or 31.1%, to $388 
million in 2012, reflecting higher loan-related and personnel 
expenses.  The increase in loan-related expense was driven by 
an increase in the loan repurcha
se reserve.  The increase in 
personnel expense was driven by a higher number of employees and incentives related to the increased production. 

Dealer Financial Services 
 Dealer Financial Services net income was $208 million in 2012, a decrease of $1 million, or 0.5%, compared to 2011. 
Segment net interest income in Dealer Financial Services 
increased $47 million, or 8.1%, to $629 million in 2012.  The 
increase in segment net interest income 
was primarily due to loan growth and 
an improved NIM in Regional Acceptance 
Corporation™s point-of-sale loan portfolio. 
The allocated provision for loan
 and lease losses increased $39 million, or 31.2
%, in 2012, primarily due to increases in 
Regional Acceptance Corporation™s allowa
nce for loan losses related to nonprime auto loans as delinquent accounts and 
NPAs move from historical lows to more normalized levels.  
Specialized Lending 
 Specialized Lending net income was $235 million in 2012, flat compared to 2011. 
Specialized Lending net interest income 
increased $82 million, or 17.6%, to $547 million in 2012.  This increase was 
primarily due to strong loan growth by Sheffield Financial as the result of dealer volume growth and expanded dealer 
relationships.  Additionally, Mortgage Warehouse Lending benef
ited from increased market pene
tration, higher commitment 
levels and higher line usage, while Lendmark and Equipment Fi
nance realized higher NIM.  
Average loans for Specialized 
Lending grew by $2.0 billion, or 15.6%, to $14.8 billion in 2012.   
The allocated provision for loan 
and lease losses increased $65 million, or 90.3%,
 in 2012.  The increase in provision expense 
was primarily due to reserve rate adjustments, as well as adjust
ments to loss factors resulting fr
om an acceleration of certain
 consumer loan charge-offs in th
e third quarter of 2012.  Due to the overall hi
gher credit risk profiles 
of Specialized Lending™
s clients, loss rates are expected to be hi
gher than conventional bank lending.  Loss rates are also affected by shifts in the 
portfolio mix of the underlying subsidiaries.   

Noninterest income increased $17 million, or 8.1%, to $228 million in 2012.  The increase in noninterest income was driven 
by higher operating lease income and gains on sale of finance lease equipment by Equipment Finance, as well as higher 
commercial finance and commercial mortgage banking fees.   
Noninterest expense increased $23 million, or 9.9%, to $256 mi
llion.  The increase in noninterest expense was driven by 
higher depreciation on property leased to customers by Equipment Finance, higher loan referral fees paid by Sheffield 
Financial and higher personnel expense.   
  47 
 Insurance Services
 Insurance Services net income was $144 million in 2012, an 
increase of $43 million, or 42.6
%, compared to 2011.  The 
increase in net income was driven by acquisitions and improv
ing premium pricing in the property and casualty insurance 
business. 
Noninterest income increased $325 million, or 31.3%, to $1
.4 billion.  The increase in n
oninterest income was primarily 
driven by higher life insurance, property and casualty insura
nce and employee benefits commissions.  The life insurance and 
property and casualty operations of Crump Insurance, which 
was acquired on April 2, 2012, contributed $234 million of 
insurance income.  Property and casualty insurance commission gr
owth was partially attributable to improvement in premium 
pricing compared to the prior year.  Empl
oyee benefits commission growth was primar
ily due to the acquisitions of Precept, a 
full-service employee benefits consulting and administrative solutions firm with offices in Irvine and San Ramon, California 
and Liberty Benefit Insurance Services, a full-service employee bene
fits broker located in San Jose, California, in the fourth 
quarter of 2011. 
Noninterest expenses incurred within the Insurance Services
 segment increased $229 million, or 29.1%, in 2012.  The 
increase in noninterest expenses was primarily due to the Crump Insurance acquisition and related personnel expense, 
occupancy expense and amortization of intangibles. 
Financial Services 
 Financial Services net income was $286 million in 2012, up $13 million, or 4.8%, compared to 2011. 
Segment net interest income for Financial Services increased $77 million, or 20.6%, to $451 million in 2012.  The increase in 
segment net interest income during 2012 was primarily attributab
le to strong organic loan and deposit growth by Corporate 
Banking and BB&T Wealth, partially offset by a lower NIM for both businesses. 
The allocated provision for loan
 and lease losses increased $11 million to $10 million in 2012 as the result of reserve rate 
adjustments related to the commercial and industrial loan portfo
lio, combined with overall growth in the loan portfolio.   
Noninterest income for Financial Services increased $31 million, or 4.5%, to $725 million in 2012.  The increase in 
noninterest income was primarily due to higher investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions, trust and 
investment advisory revenues
 and commercial
 loan fees. 
Noninterest expense incurred by Financial 
Services increased $67 million, or 11.7%, 
to $641 million in 2012, primarily due 
to higher personnel expense and intercompany expense.  The increase in noninterest expense in 2012 was driven by 
continued efforts to expand the national lending teams in Corporate Banking and by the associated increases in incentive 
expenses tied to the strong income growth in the LOBs. 
Other, Treasury & Corporate
 Net income in Other, Treasury & Corporat
e can vary due to changing needs of 
the Company, including the size of the 
investment portfolio, the need for wholesal
e funding, income received from derivatives
 used to hedge the balance sheet and, 
in certain cases, income associated with acquisition activities. 
 Other, Treasury & Corporate™s 2012 results reflect the income
 from BankAtlantic from the acquisition date to the systems conversion date in October 2012.  Other, Treasury & Corporate 
generated net income of $37 million in 2012 compared to a net loss of $7 million in the prior year. 
The increase in segment net interest income was primarily due to
 a decrease in FTP funding cred
its on deposits allocated to 
the Community Banking segment.  The de
crease in the allocated provision for lo
an losses was primarily the result of a 
decline in the provision for covered loans.  The decrease in no
ninterest income was primarily due to higher securities gains in
 the prior year, increased write-downs on affordable housing i
nvestments and lower FDIC loss share income.  The decrease in 
allocated corporate expenses was primarily due to ch
anges in intersegment service center allocations. 
2011 compared to 2010 
Community Banking 
 Community Banking had a network of 1,779 banking offices at the end of 2011, a decrease of 3 offices compared to 1,782 
banking offices at December 31, 2010.  The 
decrease in offices was the result of closin
g low volume branches partially offset 
by de novo branch openings.  Net income attributable to Community Banking increased $460 million to $536 million in 
2011. 
  48 
 Segment net interest income for Community Banking totaled $3.6 billion in 2011 compared to $3.8 billion in 2010.  The 
decline in segment net interest income was primarily the effect 
of a lower interest rate environment.  The decline in segment 
net interest income was primarily attributable to lower funding 
credits on deposits as the result of declining interest rates, 
This decline was partially offset by improvements in the deposit mix, as the result of growth in noninterest checking balances 

and a decrease in client CD balances. 
The allocated provision for loan and lease losses declined $1.2 billion, or 67.3%, to $589 million in 2011, reflecting lower 
charge-offs in the CRE loan portfolios associated with impr
oved credit quality metrics and charge-offs associated with the 
accelerated disposition of comme
rcial NPLs during 2011. 
Noninterest income in Community Banking decreased $184 mil
lion, or 15.3%, to $1.0 billion in 2011, primarily due to 
higher losses on commercial NPLs held for sale, lower overdraf
t fees and lower debit interchange fees.  This decline in 
noninterest income was offset by increases
 in merchant discounts, de
posit account service charges, account analysis fees and 
credit card interchange fees.  Noninteres
t income allocated from other segments, 
which is reported as intersegment net 
referral fees (ﬁreferral feesﬂ), declined by $14 million, or 9.
6% in 2011, This decline was driven by lower referrals for 
residential mortgage lending as originations slowed. 
Noninterest expense for Community Banking declined $19 million in 2011, or 0.8%, to $2.4 billion compared to 2010.  The 
decline was primarily due to lower regulatory charges and personnel expense, partially offset by higher foreclosed property 
expense.  Allocated corporate expense incr
eased $100 million, or 12.5%, to $899 million in 2011, primarily due to increases 
in loan administration expense, IT services and operations. 
Residential Mortgage Banking 
 BB&T™s mortgage originations totaled $23.7 billion in 2011, 
down $1.2 billion, or 4.8%, compared to 2010.  BB&T™s 
residential mortgage servicing portfolio, which includes both retained loans and loans serviced for third parties, totaled $91.
6 billion at year end 2011, an increase of
 9.8%, compared to $83.5 billion at D
ecember 31, 2010.  Residential Mortgage 
Banking experienced a net loss of $15 million in 2011, compared to a net loss of $77 million in 2010. 
Segment net interest income for Residential Mortgage Banking totaled $291 million in 2011, up $31 million, or 11.9%, 
compared to 2010.  The increase in segmen
t net interest income in 2011 was primarily due to growth in the loans held for 
investment, as well as higher spre
ads compared to funding costs. 
The allocated provision for loan and lease losses was $320 million for 2011, down $233 million, or 42.1%, compared to $553 
million in 2010.  The decline in provision expense reflects impr
oved credit quality in the loan 
portfolio.  Net charge-offs of 
$87 million and $141 million were recorded in 2011 and 2010, respectively, impacted by the sale of problem loans in 

connection with management™s NPL disposition strategy. 
Noninterest income in Residential Mortgage Banking declined $108 million, or 23.6%, to $349 million in 2011.  This 
decrease was due to lower volumes and margins on loans originat
ed for sale.  Noninterest expe
nse increased $42 million, or 
16.5%, to $296 million compared to 2010, reflecting higher foreclosed property expense, as well as increased provision 

expense associated with loan repurchases. 
Dealer Financial Services 
 Net income from Dealer Financial Services was $209 million in 2011, up $24 million, or 13.0%, over 2010. 
Segment net interest income for Dealer Financial Services increased by $68 million, or 13.2%, to $582 million in 2011 
compared to 2010.  The increase in segm
ent net interest income was primarily due to growth in the prime auto and marine 
and recreational vehicle loan portfolios, as well as an im
proved NIM in Regional Acceptan
ce Corporation™s point-of-sale 
loan portfolio. 
The allocated provision for loan
 and lease losses of $125 million was up $32 million, or 34.4%, in 2011, primarily due to 
increases in Regional Acceptan
ce Corporation™s allowance for loan losses related to nonprime auto loans as delinquent 
accounts and NPAs move from historical
 lows to more normalized levels. 
Specialized Lending 
 Specialized Lending continued to expand during 2011 throug
h strong organic growth.  Net income was $235 million for 
2011, up $67 million, or 39.9%, compared to 2010. 
  49 
 Segment net interest income totaled $465 million in 2011, an 
increase of $58 million, or 14.3
%, compared to 2010.  The 
growth in segment net interest income in 2011 was driven by strong loan growth in Sheffield Financial as the result of dealer 
volume growth and expanded dealer relationships, as well as higher NIM for Lendmark and Governmental Finance.  Average 

loans for Specialized Lending grew by $1.3 billion, or 11.2%, to $12.8 billion in 2011 compared to 2010.   
The allocated provision for loan and lease losses totaled $72 mi
llion in 2011, a decrease of $38 
million, or 34.5%, compared 
to 2010.  The decline in the provision for 2011 was primarily attributable to generally improved credit performance across the 
lines of business.  Due to the overall higher credit risk profiles of some of Specialized Lending™s clients, loss rates are 
expected to be higher than conventional bank lending.  Loss rates are also affected by shifts in the portfolio mix of the 

underlying subsidiaries. 
Noninterest income totaled $211 million in 2011, an increase of
 $35 million, or 19.9%, compared to 2010.  Noninterest 
income growth in 2011 was driven by Grandbridge, which achieved record commercial mortgage loan origination volume for 
delivery to the secondary market. 
Noninterest expense totaled $233 million in 2011, an increase 
of $15 million, or 6.9%, compared to 2010.  The increase in 
noninterest expense was driven by personnel expenses rela
ted to growth in commercial mortgage lending activities. 
Insurance Services 
 Net income from Insurance Services was $101 million in 2011, down $2 million, or 1.9%, compared to 2010.  Insurance 
Services was impacted by the weak economy and soft insu
rance premium pricing, resulting in low commission revenue 
growth and pressure on brokerage operating margins. 
Noninterest income produced by Insurance Services totaled $1
.0 billion during both 2011 and 2010.  Revenue generated by 
acquisitions was offset by weaker pricing. 

Noninterest expenses incurred within the Insurance Services se
gment increased $12 million, or
 1.6%, in 2011 compared to 
2010.  This increase was due to higher operating cost
s, including increased legal costs compared to 2010. 
Financial Services 
 Net income from Financial Services increased by $39 million,
 or 16.7%, to $273 million in 2011, compared to 2010. 
Segment net interest income totaled $374 million in 2011, an 
increase of $60 million, or 19.1
%, compared to 2010.  The 
increase in segment net interest income du
ring 2011 was attributable to strong organic loan and deposit growth in Corporate 
Banking, offset by a lower NIM.   

The allocated provision for loan and lease losses declined $46 million, or 102.2%, to a $1 million benefit in 2011, reflecting 
lower reserve rates for commercial and industrial loans wi
th the continued excellent credit quality performance. 
Noninterest income in Financial Services totaled $694 million 
in 2011, up $37 million, or 5.6%, compared to $657 million 
earned during 2010.  This increase is pr
imarily attributable to strong BB&T Capital Partners revenue growth related to 
maturing investments in its private eq
uity and mezzanine funds.  
Additionally, Retirement and 
Institutional Services had 
strong noninterest income growth in 2011, with assets growing as the result of improved market conditions and business 
initiatives. 
Noninterest expense of $574 million incurred by Financial Serv
ices increased $47 million, or 8.9%, in 2011.  The increase in 
noninterest expense in 2011 was impacted by the continued efforts to expand the sales force in Corporate Banking and 
BB&T Wealth. 
Other, Treasury & Corporate
 In 2011, the Other, Treasury & Corporate 
segment generated a $7 million net loss, compared to net income of $165 million 
for the prior year.  The decrease in net income was primarily due to a $634 decrease in noninterest income, driven by 
securities gains recognized in 2010.  The decrease in noninterest
 income was partially offset by a $197 million increase in 
segment net interest income, primarily due to a decrease in 
FTP funding credits on deposits allocated to the Community 
Banking segment.  The overall decrease in 
FTP credits was partially offset by lower yields on the investment portfolio.  In 
addition, the income tax benefit was $196 million higher than in the prior year. 
  50 
 Analysis of Financial Condition 
A review of the Company™s major balan
ce sheet categories is presented below. 
Investment Activities 
 BB&T™s investment activities are governed internally by a writte
n, board-approved policy.  The investment policy is carried 
out by the MRLCC, which meets regularly to review the economic environment and establish investment strategies.  The 
MRLCC also has much broader responsibilities, which are 
discussed in the ﬁMarket Risk Managementﬂ section in 
ﬁManagement™s Discussion and Anal
ysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationsﬂ herein.   
Investment strategies are reviewed by the MRLCC based on the interest rate environment, balance sheet mix, actual and 
anticipated loan demand, funding opportunities and the overall interest rate sensitivity of the Company.  In general, the 
investment portfolio is managed in a manner appropriate to the attainment of the following goals: (i) to provide a sufficient 
margin of liquid assets to meet unanticipated deposit and loan fluctuations and overall funds management objectives; (ii) to 
provide eligible securities to secure public funds, trust deposits
 as prescribed by law and othe
r borrowings; and (iii) to earn
 the maximum return on funds invested that is commensura
te with meeting the requirements of (i) and (ii).   
Branch Bank invests in securities as allo
wable under bank regulations.  These securities may include obligations of the U.S. 
Treasury, U.S. government agencies, GSEs (including RMBS), ba
nk eligible obligations of any state or political subdivision, 
non-agency RMBS, structured notes, bank e
ligible corporate obligations (including co
rporate debentures), commercial paper, 
negotiable CDs, bankers acceptances, mutual 
funds and limited types of equity secur
ities.  Branch Bank 
also may deal in 
securities subject to the 
provisions of the Gra
mm-Leach-Bliley Act.  BB&T™s full-service brokerage and investment banking 
subsidiary engages in the underwriting, trading and sales of equ
ity and debt securities subject to the risk management policies
 of the Company.   
The following table provides information regarding the compos
ition of BB&T™s available-for-sale and held to maturity 
securities portfolio for the years presented: 
 Table 11
Composition of Securities Portfolio 
     December 31,
       2012
2011 
 2010 
      (Dollars in millions)
   Securities available for sale (at fair value): 
          GSE securities $ 290
$ 306 
$ 103
   RMBS issued by GSE 
 20,930
 18,132 
 18,344
   States and political subdivisions 
 2,011
 1,923 
 1,909
   Non-agency RMBS 
 312
 368 
 515
   Other securities 
 3 7  759
   Covered securities 
  1,591
  1,577 
  1,539
  Total securities available for sale 
  25,137
  22,313 
  23,169
  Securities held to maturity (at amortized cost): 
     GSE securities   3,808
  500 
    RMBS issued by GSE 
  9,273
  13,028 
    States and political subdivisions 
  34  35 
    Other securities 
  479
  531 
   Total securities held to maturity 
  13,594
  14,094 
   Total securities 
$ 38,731
$ 36,407 
$ 23,169
 The total securities portfolio increased $2.3 billion, or 6.4%, in
 2012.  This growth was prim
arily driven by purchases of 
investment securities in the fourth quarter
 of 2012 that were made in response
 to slowing loan growth forecasts.   
As of December 31, 2012, approximately 18.3% of the securities 
portfolio was variable rate.  
The effective duration of the 
securities portfolio was 2.8 years at Decem
ber 31, 2012 compared to 3.3 years at 
the end of 2011.  The duration of the 
securities portfolio excludes equity securities, auction rate 
securities, and certain covered 
non-agency RMBS.  During the 
first quarter of 2011, BB&T reclassified approximately $8.3 billi
on from securities available for sale to securities held to 
maturity.  Management determined that it has both the positive 
intent and ability to hold these securities to maturity.  The 
reclassification of these securities was accounted for at fair 
value.  Management transferred these securities to mitigate 
  51 
 possible negative impacts on its regulatory capital under the proposed Basel III capital guidelines.  In addition, management 
purchased additional securities into the held-to-maturity por
tfolio based on its intent at the date of purchase. 
RMBS issued by GSEs were 78.0% of the total securities po
rtfolio at year-end 2012.  
As of December 31, 2012, the 
available-for-sale securities portfolio also includes $1.6 billion of
 securities that were acquired from the FDIC as part of th
e Colonial acquisition.  These securities are covered by FDIC lo
ss sharing agreements and include $1.3 billion of non-agency 
RMBS and $326 million of municipal securities. 
During 2012, management sold $306 million of securities that produced a realized loss of $3 million.  In addition, BB&T 
recognized $9 million in charges for OTTI related to certain n
on-agency RMBS and covered secur
ities.  In 2011, primarily in 
connection with strengthening its liquidity under the proposed 
Basel III liquidity guidelines, management purchased a total of 
$13.4 billion of GNMA RMBS.  Management also sold approx
imately $4.0 billion of securities during 2011, which produced 
net securities gains of $174 million.  In addition, BB&T recognized $112 million in charges for OTTI during 2011 related to 

BB&T™s portfolio of non-agency RMBS.  The OTTI charges we
re the result of weaker actual and forecasted collateral 
performance for non-agency RMBS. 
In 2010, management executed two major strategies to strengthen the balance sheet.  In the second quarter of 2010, 
management executed a deleveraging strategy to better position BB&T™s balance sheet for a rising rate environment and 
achieve a better mix of earning assets.  In connection with this strategy, management reduced the balance sheet by 
approximately $8 billion through the sale of securities.  During the third and fourth quarters of 2010, management executed a 

strategy to further de-risk the available-for-sale securities po
rtfolio.  The de-risking strategy was aimed at further reducing
 the 
duration of the securities portfolio and reducing the risk of char
ges to OCI in a rising rate environment.  Also to further 
protect against the risk of a rising rate environment, manageme
nt replaced a portion of the securities sold with floating-rate 
securities.  In addition, management sold approximately $400 
million of non-agency RMBS to reduce the potential for future 
credit losses.  These strategies were th
e primary driver in generating net secur
ities gains during 2010.  Primarily in 
connection with these strategies, BB&T sold a total of $31.3 
billion in available-for-sale securities during 2010, which 
produced net securities gains of $585 million.  In addition, BB&T recognized $31 million in charges for OTTI related to 
BB&T™s portfolio of non-agency RMBS.   
Refer to Note 2 ﬁSecuritiesﬂ in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Fi
nancial Statementsﬂ herein for additional disclosures related to 
BB&T™s evaluation of securities for OTTI. 

The following table presents BB&
T™s securities portfolio at December 31, 2012, se
gregated by major category with ranges of 
maturities and average yields disclosed. 
   52 
 Table 12
Securities 
     December 31, 2012
       Available for Sale
 Held to Maturity
        Weighted    Weighted       Fair Value
Average Yield (1)
Amortized Cost 
 Average Yield (1)
      (Dollars in millions)
   GSE securities:             Within one year 
$ 188
 0.24
%$  %   One to five years 
 102
 0.23
     Five to ten years 
   3,600 
 2.00 
   After ten years 
   208 
 1.22 
    Total 
 290
 0.24
 3,808 
 1.96 
  RMBS issued by GSE: (2) 
   One to five years 
 6 5.59
     Five to ten years 
 144
 2.62
     After ten years 
 20,780
 2.14
 9,273 
 2.13 
    Total 
 20,930
 2.14
 9,273 
 2.13 
  Obligations of states and political subdivisions: (3) 
   One to five years 
 23 6.91
     Five to ten years 
 209
 6.15
 1  1.74 
   After ten years 
 1,779
 6.50
 33 
 5.22 
    Total 
 2,011
 6.47
 34 
 5.14 
  Non-agency RMBS: (2) 
   After ten years 
 312
 5.93
      Total 
 312
 5.93
    Other securities: 
   Within one year 
 2      One to five years 
 1 1.29
     Five to ten years 
   72 
 1.37 
   After ten years 
   407 
 1.46 
    Total 
 3 0.37
 479 
 1.45 
  Covered securities: 
   One to five years 
 2 4.51
     Five to ten years 
 324
 3.81
     After ten years 
 1,265
 16.26
      Total 
 1,591
 13.71
       Total securities 
$ 25,137
 3.25
 $ 13,594 
 2.06 
  (1) 
Yields are calculated on a taxable-equivalent basis using the statutory federal income tax rate of 35%.  Yields for 
available-for-sale securities are calculated base
d on the amortized cost of the securities. 
(2) 
For purposes of the maturity table, RMBS, which are not due at a single maturity date, have been included in maturity 
groupings based on the contractual maturity.  The expect
ed life of RMBS will differ from contractual maturities 
because borrowers may have the right 
to call or prepay the underlying mort
gage loans with or without call or 
prepayment penalties. 
(3) 
Weighted-average yield excludes the effect of
 pay-fixed swaps hedging municipal securities. 
Lending Activities 
 The primary goal of the BB&T lending function is to help clients achieve their financial goals by providing quality loan 
products that are fair to the client and profitable to the Company.  Management believes that this purpose can best be 
accomplished by building strong, pr
ofitable client relationships over time, with
 BB&T becoming an impo
rtant contributor to 
the prosperity and well-being of its clie
nts.  In addition to the importance placed
 on client knowle
dge and continuous 
involvement with clients, BB&T™s lending process incorporates
 the standards of a consistent company-wide credit culture 
and an in-depth local market knowledge.  Furthermore, the Company employs strict underwriting criteria governing the 
degree of assumed risk and the diversity of the loan portfolio in terms of type, industry and geographical concentration.  In 
  53 
 this context, BB&T strives to meet the credit needs of businesses and consumers in its markets while pursuing a balanced 
strategy of loan profitability, loan growth and loan quality.   
The following table summarizes BB&T™s loan portfolio based on
 the regulatory classification of
 the portfolio, which focuses 
on the underlying loan collateral, and differs from internal classifications presented herein that focus on the primary purpose
 of the loan.  Covered loans are incl
uded in their respective categories. 
 Table 13
Composition of Loan and Lease Portfolio 
    December 31,
      2012
2011 
2010  
 2009  
 2008  
     (Dollars in millions)
   Commercial, financial and agricultural loans 
$ 23,863 
$ 21,452 
$ 20,490 
 $ 19,076 
$ 17,489 
  Lease receivables 
  1,114 
  1,067 
 1,158 
   1,092 
 1,315 
  Real estate-construction and land development loans
  5,900 
  7,714 
 10,969 
   15,353 
 18,012 
  Real estate-mortgage loans 
  65,760 
  60,821 
 57,418 
   55,671 
 48,719 
  Consumer loans 
  17,966 
  16,415 
  13,532 
   12,464 
  11,710 
   Total loans and leases held for investment 
  114,603 
  107,469 
  103,567 
   103,656 
  97,245 
  LHFS 
  3,761 
  3,736 
  3,697 
   2,551 
  1,424 
   Total loans and leases 
$ 118,364 
$ 111,205 
$ 107,264 
 $ 106,207 
$ 98,669 
 The following table is based upon the regulatory classificatio
n of loans and reflects the scheduled maturities of commercial, 
financial and agricultural loans, as well as real estate construction loans:
  Table 14
Selected Loan Maturities
 and Interest Sensitivity 
     December 31, 2012
       Commercial,
 Real Estate:
          Financial
 Construction
          and and Land
          Agricultural
 Development
          Loans
Loans 
 Total 
      (Dollars in millions)
   Fixed Rate: 
          1 year or less (1) 
$ 2,688
$ 233 
$ 2,921
   1-5 years 
 2,699
 772 
 3,471
   After 5 years 
  3,793
  1,074 
  4,867
    Total 
  9,180
  2,079 
  11,259
  Variable Rate: 
     1 year or less (1) 
  3,508
  1,395 
 4,903
   1-5 years 
  8,935
  1,959 
 10,894
   After 5 years 
  2,240
  467 
 2,707
    Total 
  14,683
  3,821 
 18,504
     Total loans and leases (2) 
$ 23,863
$ 5,900 
$ 29,763
 (1) 
Includes loans due on demand. 
 (2) 
The above table excludes: 
  (Dollars in millions)
  (i) 
consumer loans 
$ 17,966
  (ii) real estate mortgage loans 
 65,760
  (iii) LHFS 
 3,761
  (iv) 
lease receivables 
 1,114
   Total 
$ 88,601
 Scheduled repayments are reported in the maturity category in
 which the payment is due.  Determinations of maturities are 
based upon contract terms.  BB&T™s credit policy typically doe
s not permit automatic renewal of loans.  At the scheduled 
maturity date (including balloon payment 
date), the customer generally must reques
t a new loan to replace the matured loan 
and execute either a new note or note modification with rate, terms and conditions negotiated at that time.  
  54 
 BB&T™s loan portfolio is approximately 50% commercial and 50% retail by design, and is divided into six major 
categoriesŠcommercial, direct retail, sales finance, revolving cr
edit, residential mortgage and other lending subsidiaries.  In
 addition, BB&T has a portfolio of loans that were acquired in 
the Colonial acquisition that ar
e covered by FDIC loss sharing 
agreements.  BB&T lends to a diverse customer base that is su
bstantially located within the Co
mpany™s primary market area.  
At the same time, the loan portfolio is geographically
 dispersed throughout BB&T™s branch network to mitigate 
concentration risk arising from local and regional economic downturns.  Refer to the ﬁRisk Managementﬂ section herein for a 
discussion of each of the loan portfolios and the credit risk management policies used to manage the portfolios.  
 The following table presents BB&T™s total loan portfolio based 
upon BB&T™s lines of business, as discussed herein, rather 
than upon regulatory reporting classifications:
  Table 15
Composition of Loan and Lease Portfolio Based on Lines of Business 
    December 31,
      2012
2011 
2010  
 2009  
 2008  
     (Dollars in millions)
   Commercial 
$ 51,017 
$ 49,165 
$ 48,886 
 $ 49,820 
$ 50,480 
  Direct retail lending 
  15,817 
  14,506 
 13,807 
   14,406 
 15,454 
  Sales finance 
  7,736 
  7,401 
 7,050 
   6,290 
 6,354 
  Revolving credit 
  2,330 
  2,212 
 2,127 
   2,016 
 1,777 
  Residential mortgage  
  24,272 
  20,581 
 17,550 
   15,435 
 17,091 
  Other lending subsidiaries 
  10,137 
  8,737 
 7,953 
   7,670 
 6,089 
   Total loans and leases held for investment 
        (excluding covered loans) 
  111,309 
  102,602 
 97,373 
   95,637 
 97,245 
  Covered 
  3,294 
  4,867 
  6,194 
   8,019 
     Total loans and leases held for investment 
  114,603 
  107,469 
  103,567 
   103,656 
  97,245 
  LHFS 
  3,761 
  3,736 
  3,697 
   2,551 
  1,424 
   Total loans and leases 
$ 118,364 
$ 111,205 
$ 107,264 
 $ 106,207 
$ 98,669 
 BB&T™s lending portfolio reflected broad-based growth thr
oughout 2012 with notable incr
eases in the commercial and 
industrial, direct retail and residential mortgage lending portfo
lios.  Total loans were $118.4 billion at year-end 2012, up $7
.2 
billion, or 6.4%, compared to the balance at year-end 2011.  Co
vered loans decreased $1.6 billion, or 32.3%, during 2012.   
The following table presents 
BB&T™s average loans for the years ended Decembe
r 31, 2012 and 2011, 
segregated by major 
category:    55 
 Table 16
Composition of Average Loans and Leases 
    Years Ended December 31,
      2012
 2011 
     Balance
% of total 
 Balance 
 % of total 
      (Dollars in millions)
    Commercial: 
      Commercial and industrial 
$ 36,966 
 32.4 
% $ 34,153 
 32.2
%   CRE - other 
 10,779 
 9.5 
   11,139 
 10.5
    CRE - residential ADC 
 1,665 
 1.5 
   2,769 
 2.6
   Direct retail lending 
  15,270 
 13.4 
    13,850 
 13.1
   Sales finance 
  7,680 
 6.8 
    7,202 
 6.8
   Revolving credit 
  2,217 
 1.9 
    2,106 
 2.0
   Residential mortgage 
  22,623 
 19.9 
    18,782 
 17.7
   Other lending subsidiaries 
  9,525 
 8.4 
    8,280 
 7.8
    Total average loans and leases held for 
         investment (excluding covered loans) 
  106,725 
 93.8 
    98,281 
 92.7
   Covered 
  4,045 
 3.6 
    5,498 
 5.2
    Total average loans and leases held 
         for investment 
  110,770 
 97.4 
    103,779 
 97.9
   LHFS 
  2,963 
 2.6 
    2,183 
 2.1
    Total average loans and leases 
$ 113,733 
 100.0 
% $ 105,962 
 100.0
% Average total loans were $113.7 billion for 2012, up $7.8 
billion compared to the prior year.  Average commercial and 
industrial loans increased $2.8 billion, or 8.2%, in 2012 as co
mpared to 2011.  The increase in
 the commercial and industrial 
portfolio was driven by investments in corporate banking in key national markets and the expansion of vertical lending teams 
focused on targeted industries.  Average CRE Œ other loans for 2012 decreased $360 million, or 3.2%, compared to 2011.  

The average CRE Œ residential ADC portfolio declined $1.1 billi
on, or 39.9%, compared to th
e average balance for 2011, as 
management continued to reduce exposure to higher risk real estate lending.   
Average direct retail loans increased 10.3
% during 2012, primarily due to increased demand for home equity loans and an 
increase in non-real estate loans genera
ted through the wealth and small business lending channels.  This growth was 
partially offset by continued runoff of th
e residential lot/land component of this po
rtfolio as management has continued to 
reduce exposures to these types of loans.  Average sales fi
nance loans and average revolving credit reflected 2012 growth 
rates of 6.6% and 5.3%, respectively.  BB&
T concentrates its efforts on the highest 
quality borrowers in both of these product 
markets.  The growth in average sales fi
nance loans was primarily driven by an increase in prime automobile lending, which 
reflects increased momentum in the new and used automobile markets during 2012. 
Average residential mortgage loans increased $3.8 billion, or 20
.5%, compared to 2011.  The increase in residential mortgage 
loans was driven by a previous strategy that resulted in a higher portion of 10 to 15 year mortgage production being retained 
in the held for investment loan portfolio.  During the second quarter of 2012, this strategy was modified such that the 

majority of future loan production is directed to the held for 
sale portfolio.  As a result, management expects slower growth 
in the residential mortgage loan portfolio during 2013. 
Average loans held by BB&T™s other lending 
subsidiaries increased $1.2 billion, or 15
.0%, compared to 2011.  The growth in 
this portfolio was primarily in small ticket finance, equipment leasing and nonprime automobile financing. 

Asset Quality 
The following discussion excludes assets covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements that provide for reimbursement to BB&T 
for the majority of losses incurred on those assets.  Covered lo
ans, which are considered performing due to the application of 
the accretion method of accounting, were 
$3.3 billion at December 31, 
2012 and $4.9 billion in 
the prior year.  Covered 
foreclosed property totale
d $254 million and $378 million at D
ecember 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
NPAs, which include foreclosed real esta
te, repossessions and nonaccrual 
loans, totaled $1.5 billion at December 31, 2012, 
compared to $2.5 billion at December 31, 2011.  The decline in NPAs of $914 million was driven by a decrease of $492 
million in NPLs and $422 million in foreclosed property.  The decline in NPLs was broad-based, reflecting decreases in most 
loan portfolios, including a 34.5% decrease in commercial NPLs
.  The decline in foreclosed property reflects a more  
  56 
 aggressive approach to reducing the inventory of foreclosed property that was implemented during the fourth quarter of 2011.  
The current inventory of foreclosed real estate as of Decembe
r 31, 2012 includes land and lots, totaling $35 million that have 
been held for approximately 15 months on average.  The remaining foreclosed real estate of $72 million, which is primarily 
single family residential and commercial real estate, had an average holding period of seven months.  NPAs as a percentage 
of loans and leases plus foreclosed property were 1.33% at
 December 31, 2012 compared w
ith 2.29% at December 31, 2011. 
Management expects NPAs to improve at a modest pace during 
the first quarter of 2013, assu
ming no significant economic 
deterioration during the quarter. 
The following table presents the changes in NPAs during 2012 and 2011. 
 Table 17
Rollforward of NPAs 
        Years Ended December 31,
        2012
  2011 
        (Dollars in millions)
   Balance at beginning of year 
$ 2,450 
 $  3,971
   New NPAs 
  2,449 
   3,216
   Advances and principal increases 
  161 
   120
   Disposals of foreclosed property 
  (737)
   (1,062)
   Loan sales (1) 
  (754)
   (1,139)
   Charge-offs and losses 
  (1,002)
   (1,719)
   Payments 
  (669)
   (634)
  Transfers to performing status 
  (392)
   (303)
  Other, net 
  30 
     Balance at end of year 
$ 1,536 
 $  2,450
 (1) 
Includes charge-offs and losses recorded upon sale of $2
19 million and $241 million for 
the years ended December 31, 
2012 and 2011, respectively. 
Tables 18 and 19 summarize asset quality information for the 
past five years.  As more fully described below, this 
information has been adjusted to exclude past due loans that
 are subject to FDIC loss sharing agreements and certain 
mortgage loans guarant
eed by the government: 
 In accordance with regulatory repo
rting standards, covered loans that
 are contractually past due are 
reported as past due and still accrui
ng based on the number of days past due.  However, given the 
significant amount of
 acquired loans that are past due but st
ill accruing due to the application of the 
accretion method, BB&T has concluded that it is appropriate
 to adjust Table 18 to exclude covered loans in 
summarizing total loans 90 days or more past due an
d still accruing and total loans 30-89 days past due and 
still accruing.  BB&T has also concluded that the inclusion of covered 
loans in certain asset quality ratios summarized in 
Table 19 including ﬁLoans 30-89 days
 past due and still accruing as a per
centage of total loans and leases,ﬂ 
ﬁLoans 90 days or more past due and still accruing
 as a percentage of total loans and leases,ﬂ 
ﬁNonperforming loans and leases as a percentage of to
tal loans and leasesﬂ and certain other asset quality 
ratios that reflect NPAs in the numerator or denominator (or both) results in significant distortion to these 

ratios.  In addition, because loan level charge-offs re
lated to the acquired loans are not recognized in the 
financial statements until the cumula
tive amounts exceed the original loss pr
ojections on a pool basis, the 
net charge-off ratio for the acquired loans is not cons
istent with the net charge-off ratio for other loan 
portfolios.  The inclusion of these loans in the asset quality ratios described above could result in a lack of 
comparability across quarters or years,
 and could negatively impact comparability with other portfolios that 
were not impacted by acquisition accounting.  BB&
T believes that the presentation of asset quality 
measures excluding covered loans and related amounts from both the numerator and denominator provides 

better perspective into underlying trends related to the 
quality of its loan portfolio.  Accordingly, the asset 
quality measures in Table 19 present asset quality information both on a consolidated basis as well as 
excluding the covered assets and related amounts. 
 In addition, BB&T has excluded mortgage loans that are guaranteed by the government, primarily 
FHA/VA loans, from the asset quality metrics and ratio
s reflected on Tables 18 and 19, as these loans are 
recoverable through various government guarantees.  In addition, BB&T has recorded on the balance sheet 
  57 
 certain amounts related to delinquent GNMA loans serviced for others that BB&T has the option, but not 
the obligation, to repurchase and has effectively regained control.  These amounts are also excluded from 
asset quality metrics as reimbursement of insured am
ounts is proceeding in accordance with investor 
guidelines.  The amount of government guaranteed mortgage loans and GNMA loans serviced for others 
that have been excluded are noted in the footnotes to Table 18. 
  Table 18
  Asset Quality
  (Excluding Covered Assets)
      December 31, 
      2012 
2011 
 2010 
 2009 
2008 
       (Dollars in millions) 
  Nonaccrual loans and leases: 
                  Commercial 
$ 886 
$ 1,352 
$ 1,426 
$  1,651 
$ 845 
  Direct retail lending 
 132 
 142 
 191 
 197 
 89 
  Sales finance loans 
 7  7  6  7  7   Residential mortgage loans (1) 
 269 
 308 
 466 
 707 
 358 
  Other lending subsidiaries 
 86 
 63 
 60 
 96 
 97 
 Total nonaccrual loans and leases held for investment 
 1,380 
 1,872 
 2,149 
 2,658 
 1,396 
  Nonaccrual LHFS 
    521 
 5   Total nonaccrual loans and leases 
  1,380 
 1,872 
 2,670 
 2,663 
 1,396 
  Foreclosed real estate (2) 
 107 
 536 
 1,259 
 1,451 
 538 
  Other foreclosed property 
 49 
 42 
 42 
 58 
 79 
 Total NPAs (1)(2) 
$ 1,536 
$ 2,450 
$ 3,971 
$  4,172 
$ 2,013 
 Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing: 
  Commercial 
$ 1 $ 2 $ 20 
$  7 $ 86 
  Direct retail lending 
 38 
 56 
 79 
 87 
 117 
  Sales finance loans 
 10 
 18 
 27 
 30 
 26 
  Revolving credit loans 
 16 
 17 
 20 
 25 
 23 
  Residential mortgage loans (3)(4) 
 92 
 104 
 143 
 150 
 158 
  Other lending subsidiaries 
 10 
 5  6  12 
 14 
 Total loans 90 days or more past due and still  
  accruing (3)(4)(5) 
$ 167 
$ 202 
$ 295 
$  311 
$ 424 
 Loans 30-89 days past due: 
  Commercial 
$ 56 
$ 121 
$ 315 
$  377 
$ 594 
  Direct retail lending 
 145 
 162 
 190 
 222 
 270 
  Sales finance loans 
 56 
 75 
 95 
 126 
 146 
  Revolving credit loans 
 23 
 22 
 28 
 32 
 34 
  Residential mortgage loans (6)(7) 
 498 
 479 
 532 
 600 
 665 
  Other lending subsidiaries 
 290 
 273 
 248 
 306 
 313 
 Total loans 30 - 89 days past due (6)(7)(8) 
$ 1,068 
$ 1,132 
$ 1,408 
$  1,663 
$ 2,022 
(1) Excludes nonaccrual mortgage loans that are government guaranteed totaling $55 million and $17 million as of 2009 and 
2008, respectively.  BB&T revised its nonaccrual policy related to FHA/VA guaranteed loans during 2010.  The change 
in policy resulted in a decrease in nonaccrual mortgage loans 
and an increase in mortgage loans 90 days past due and still 
accruing of approximately $79 million. 
(2) Excludes covered foreclosed real 
estate totaling $254 million, 
$378 million, $313 million an
d $160 million at December 
31, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
(3) Excludes mortgage loans guaranteed by GNMA that are 90 days or more past due totaling $517 million, $426 million, 
$425 million, $337 million and $74 million at Decembe
r 31, 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008
, respectively. (4) Excludes mortgage loans past due 90 days or more that are government guaranteed totaling $254 million, $206 million, 
$153 million, $8 million and $7 million at December 31, 2012, 2011, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  Includes past 
due mortgage LHFS. 
(5) Excludes covered loans past due 90 days or more totaling $442 million, $736 million, $1.1 billion and $1.4 billion at 
December 31, 2012, 20
11, 2010 and 2009, 
respectively.   
(6) Excludes mortgage loans guaranteed by GNMA that are past due 30-89 days totaling $5 million, $7 million, $7 million, 
$10 million and $12 million at December 31, 20
12, 2011, 20
10, 2009 and 2008
, respectively.   58 
 (7)  Excludes mortgage loans past due 30-89 days that are government guaranteed totaling $96 million, $91 million, $83 
million, $23 million and $25 million at December 31, 2012, 20
11, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  Includes past due 
mortgage LHFS. 
(8) Excludes covered loans past due 30-89 days totaling $135 million, $222 million, $363 million and $391 million at 
December 31, 2012, 
2011, 2010 and 2009
, respectively.  Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing interest, excl
uding government guaranteed lo
ans and covered loans, totaled 
$167 million at December 31, 2012, compar
ed with $202 million at y
ear-end 2011, a decline of 
17.3%.  Loans 30-89 days 
past due, excluding government guaranteed
 loans and covered loans, totaled $1.1 
billion at December 31
, 2012, which was a 
decline of $64 million, or 5.7% compar
ed to year-end 2011.  Excluding governm
ent guaranteed loans and covered loans, 
BB&T™s past due asset quality metrics are essentially at normalized levels.  
 Table 19
Asset Quality Ratios 
     As Of / For The Years Ended December 31, 
      2012 
2011  
2010  
 2009  
2008  
  Asset Quality Ratios (including amounts related to 
               covered loans and covered foreclosed property): 
              Loans 30 - 89 days past due and still accruing as a 
                percentage of total loans and leases (1)(2) 
 1.02
% 1.22
% 1.65 
%  1.93 
% 2.05
%   Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing as a
          percentage of total loans and leases (1)(2) 
 0.52
  0.84
  1.34 
  1.60 
  0.43
    Nonperforming loans and leases as a percentage of total
          loans and leases 
 1.17
  1.68
  2.49 
  2.51 
  1.42
    NPAs as a percentage of:
          Total assets  
 0.97
  1.62
  2.73 
  2.61 
  1.32
     Loans and leases plus foreclosed property 
 1.51
  2.52
  3.94 
  4.02 
  2.03
    Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans 
                and leases (3) 
 1.14
  1.57
  2.41 
  1.74 
  0.89
    ALLL as a percentage of loans and leases
          held for investment 
 1.76
  2.10
  2.62 
  2.51 
  1.62
    Ratio of ALLL to:
          Net charge-offs (3) 
 1.56
x  1.36
x  1.07 
x  1.47 
x  1.85
x     Nonperforming loans and leases held for investment 
 1.46
  1.21
  1.26 
  0.98 
  1.13
   Asset Quality Ratios (excluding amounts related to 
         covered loans and covered foreclosed property): (4) 
        Loans 30 - 89 days past due and still accruing as a 
          percentage of total loans and leases (1)(2) 
 0.93
% 1.06
% 1.39 
%  1.69 
% 2.05
%   Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing as a 
          percentage of total loans and leases (1)(2) 
 0.15
  0.19
  0.29 
  0.32 
  0.43
    Nonperforming loans and leases as a percentage of total
          loans and leases 
 1.20
  1.76
  2.64 
  2.71 
  1.42
    NPAs as a percentage of:
          Total assets  
 0.85
  1.45
  2.64 
  2.65 
  1.32
     Loans and leases plus foreclosed property 
 1.33
  2.29
  3.88 
  4.18 
  2.03
    Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans 
                and leases (3) 
 1.15
  1.59
  2.59 
  1.79 
  0.89
    ALLL as a percentage of
          loans and leases held for investment 
 1.70
  2.05
  2.63 
  2.72 
  1.62
    Ratio of ALLL to:
          Net charge-offs (3) 
 1.50
x  1.32
x  1.01 
x  1.47 
x  1.85
x     Nonperfor
ming loans and leases held for investment 
 1.37
  1.13
  1.19 
  0.98 
  1.13
  (1) Excludes mortgage loans guaranteed by GNMA.  Refe
r to the footnotes of preceding table for related amounts. 
(2) Excludes mortgage loans guaranteed by the government.  Refer to the footnotes of preceding table for related amounts. 
(3) Net charge-offs for 2011 and 2010 include $695 million and $236 million, respectively, related to BB&T™s NPA 
disposition strategy.  In connection with this strategy, approximately $271 million and $1.9 billion of problem loans 
  59 
 were transferred 
from loans held for investment to LHFS in 2011 and 2010, respectively.  The disposition of all such 
loans was complete as 
of December 31, 2011. 
(4) These asset quality ratios have been adjusted to remove th
e impact of covered loans and 
covered foreclosed property.  
Appropriate adjustments to the numerator and denominator have been reflected in the calculation of these ratios.   
 BB&T™s potential problem lo
ans include loans on nonaccrual status or past due 
as disclosed in Table 18
.  In addition, for its 
commercial portfolio segment, loans that are rated special mention or substandard performing are closely monitored by 
management as potential problem loans.  Refer to Note 4 ﬁAllowance for Credit Lossesﬂ in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated 
Financial Statementsﬂ herein for additional disclo
sures related to these potential problem loans. 
TDRs generally occur when a borrower is experiencing, or is ex
pected to experience, financial 
difficulties in the near-term.  
As a result, BB&T will work with the bor
rower to prevent further difficulties, and ultimately to improve the likelihood of 
recovery on the loan.  To facilitate this process, a concessiona
ry modification that would not otherwise be considered may be 
granted resulting in classification of the loan as a TDR.  Refer to Note 1 ﬁSummary of Significant Accounting Policiesﬂ in the 

ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statementsﬂ for additional policy information regarding TDRs.   
BB&T™s performing TDRs, excluding government guaranteed mortga
ge loans, totaled $1.3 billion at December 31, 2012, an 
increase of $218 million, 
or 19.7%, compared with December 
31, 2011.  This increase was attributable to guidance issued by 
a national bank regulatory agency during 2012 that requires certain loans, which have been discharged in bankruptcy and not 
reaffirmed by the borrower, to be accounted for as a TDR and possibly as nonperforming, regardless of their actual payment 

history and expected performance.  BB&T™s primary regulators ha
ve not formalized how this guidance will be applied to the 
entities that it regulates.  However, based on a preliminary inte
rpretation of this guidance, BB&T classified $226 million of 
performing loans across all loan portfolios as TDRs during the 
fourth quarter of 2012.  Approximately 77% of these loans 
have been current for two years or more and approximately 92% are less than 60 days past due.  As a result, BB&T 
concluded that it has a reasonable expectation of collection of pr
incipal and interest and therefore has classified these TDRs 
as performing.  BB&T™s exposure to the expected collateral shor
tfall has been considered in 
the ALLL recorded at December 
31, 2012. 
In addition, BB&T classified approxim
ately $44 million of loans already on non
accrual status as TDRs as a result of 
regulatory guidance described above.  The cl
assification of these loans as TDRs had an
 insignificant impact on the allowance 
as these loans had been previously charged down to their estimated collateral value less costs to sell. 
The following table prov
ides a summary of performing TD
R activity during the years ende
d December 31, 2012 and 2011. 
 Table 20
Rollforward of Performing TDRs 
        Years Ended December 31, 
        2012 
 2011 
        (Dollars in millions) 
  Balance at beginning of year 
$ 1,109 
 $  1,476
   Inflows 
  417 
   395
   Change in regulatory guidance 
  226 
      Payments and payoffs 
  (187)
   (334)
   Chargeoffs 
  (36)
   (43)
   Transfers from (to) nonperforming TDRs, net 
  (50)
   (206)
   Removal due to the passage of time 
  (109)
   (105)
   Non-concessionary re-modifications 
  (43)
   (74)
 Balance at end of year 
$ 1,327 
 $  1,109
 Payments and payoffs represent cash receive
d from borrowers in connection with sc
heduled principal payments, prepayments 
and payoffs of amounts outstanding.  Transfers to nonperforming TDRs represent loans that no longer meet the requirements 
necessary to reflect the loan in accruing status and as a re
sult are subsequently classified
 as a nonperforming TDR.   
TDRs may be removed due to the passage of time if they: (1) di
d not include a forgiveness of principal or interest, (2) have 
performed in accordance with the modified 
terms (generally a minimum of six months
), (3) were reported as a TDR over a 
year end reporting period, and (4) reflected an
 interest rate on the modified loan that was no less than a market rate at the d
ate of modification.  These loans were previously considered TDRs as a result of structural concessions such as extended 
interest-only terms or an amortization period that did not otherwise conform to normal underwriting guidelines.   
  60 
 In addition, certain transactions may be removed from classifi
cation as a TDR as a result of a subsequent non-concessionary 
re-modification.  Non-concessionary re-modifications represent TDRs that did not contain concessionary terms at the date of 
a subsequent renewal/modification and there was a reasonable expectation that the borrower would continue to comply with 

the terms of the loan subsequent to the date of the re-modification.  A re-modification may be considered for such a re-
classification if the loan has not had a forgiveness of principal or interest and the modified terms qualify as more than minor
 such that the re-modified loan is considered a new loan.  Alte
rnatively, such loans may be co
nsidered for reclassification in 
years subsequent to the date of the re-modification based on 
the passage of time as described in the preceding paragraph. 
In connection with consumer loan TDRs, a 
NPL will be returned to accruing status when current as to principal and interest 
and upon a sustained historical repayment performance (generally a minimum of six months).
 The following table provides further details regarding the payment status of TDRs outstanding at December 31, 2012: 

  Table 21
  Troubled Debt Restructurings
       December 31, 2012 
          Past Due 
Past Due 
        Current Status
30-89 Days (1) 
 90 Days Or More (1) 
Total 
      (Dollars in millions)
   Performing TDRs: 
            Commercial loans: 
                   Commercial and industrial 
$ 76 
 98.7 
%$ 1  1.3 
%$  %$ 77 
    CRE - other 
 67 
 100.0 
        67 
    CRE - residential ADC 
 21 
 100.0 
        21 
   Direct retail lending 
 183 
 92.9 
  12 
 6.1 
  2  1.0 
  197 
   Sales finance 
 16 
 84.2 
  2  10.5 
  1  5.3 
  19 
   Revolving credit 
 45 
 80.4 
  5  8.9 
  6  10.7 
  56 
   Residential mortgage (2) 
 643 
 83.6 
  106 
 13.8 
  20 
 2.6 
  769 
   Other lending subsidiaries 
 104 
 86.0 
  17 
 14.0 
     121 
    Total performing TDRs (2) 
 1,155 
 87.0 
  143 
 10.8 
  29 
 2.2 
  1,327 
  Nonperforming TDRs (3) 
 60 
 25.0 
  24 
 10.0 
  156 
 65.0 
  240 
    Total TDRs (2) 
$ 1,215 
 77.5 
 $ 167 
 10.7 
 $ 185 
 11.8 
 $ 1,567 
 (1) Past due performing TDRs are in
cluded in past due disclosures. 
(2) Excludes mortgage TDRs that are government guaranteed totaling $315 million.
 (3) Nonperforming TDRs are included in nonaccrual loan disclosures. 
ACL The ACL, which totaled $2.0 billion and $2
.3 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011
, respectively, consists of the ALLL, 
which is presented separately on the Consolidated Balance Sheet
s, and the RUFC, which is included in other liabilities on the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets.  The ALLL 
amounted to 1.76% of loans and leases he
ld for investment at December 31, 2012 
(or 1.70% excluding 
covered loans), compared to 2.10% (or 2.05% excl
uding covered loans) at December 31, 2011.  The 
decline in the ALLL reflects continued improvement in the cred
it quality of the loan portfolio, especially in the commercial 
portfolio segment due to improvement in risk-grade migration trends and reductions in higher-risk CRE loans.  The ratio of 
the ALLL to NPLs held for investment, excluding covered loan
s, was 1.37x at December 31, 
2012 compared to 1.13x at 
December 31, 2011.   
BB&T™s net charge-offs totaled $1.3 billion for 2012, compared to 
$1.7 billion in 2011.  Included in net charge-offs for 2012 
and 2011 was $34 million and $66 million, respectively, of charge
-offs related to covered loans.  BB&T™s net charge-offs as 
a percentage of average loans and leases
 was 1.14% (or 1.15% excluding covered loans) for 2012, compared to 1.57% (or 
1.59% excluding covered loans), in 2011.  Net charge-offs for 2011 included $87 million of losses on the sale of problem 
loans in connection with management™s NPA disposition strategy.  Excluding these charge-offs, the adjusted net charge-off 
ratio would have been 1.50% in 2011.  Net charge-offs decreas
ed in most lending portfolios,
 including a 24
.7% decrease in 
CRE Œ other, a 46.2% decrease in CRE Œ residential ADC and a 49.6% reduction in residential mortgage net charge-offs.  

Net charge-offs for the commercial and industrial and other le
nding subsidiaries portfolios increased 8.5% and 20.6%, 
respectively.  Management expects net charge-offs to approximate 1.00% in the first quarter of 2013 and trend lower 
throughout the remainder of the year. 
  61 
 Refer to Note 4 ﬁAllowance for Credit Lossesﬂ in the ﬁNot
es to Consolidated Financial Statementsﬂ for additional 
disclosures. 
The following table presents
 an estimated allocation of the A
LLL at the end of each of the last five years.  This allocation of
 the ALLL is calculated on an approximate 
basis and is not necessarily indicative of 
future losses or allocations.  The entire 
amount of the allowance is available to absorb losses occurring in any category of loans and leases. 
 Table 22
Allocation of ALLL by Category 
    December 31,
    2012
 2011 
2010 
2009 
 2008 
       % Loans
  % Loans
  % Loans
   % Loans 
   % Loans
       in each 
  in each 
  in each 
   in each 
   in each 
    Amount
  category 
Amount
category 
Amount
category 
Amount 
 category 
 Amount
category 
    (Dollars in millions)
 Balances at end of period applicable to:
                    Commercial
 $  774  44.5 
%$ 1,053 
 45.7 
%$ 1,536 
 47.1 
%$ 1,574 
 48.2 
%  $  912  51.9 
% Direct retail lending
   300  13.8 
   232  13.5 
   246  13.3 
   297  13.8 
    124  15.9 
  Sales finance
   29  6.8 
   38  6.9 
   47  6.8 
   77  6.1 
    55  6.5 
  Revolving credit
   102  2.0 
   112  2.1 
   109  2.1 
   127  1.9 
    94  1.8 
  Residential mortgage   328  21.2 
   365  19.2 
   298  17.0 
   131  14.9 
    91  17.6 
  Other lending subsidiaries
   277  8.8 
   197  8.1 
   198  7.7 
   264  7.4 
    238  6.3 
  Covered   128  2.9 
   149  4.5 
   144  6.0 
    7.7 
       Unallocated
   80     110     130     130      60     Total ALLL 
  2,018 
 100.0 
%  2,256 
 100.0 
%  2,708 
 100.0 
%  2,600 
 100.0 
%    1,574 
 100.0 
%  RUFC 
  30    29    47    72     33    Total ACL
 $  2,048 
 $ 2,285 
 $ 2,755 
 $ 2,672 
  $  1,607 
 Information related to BB&T™s ALLL for the last 
five years is presented in the following table.
    62 
 Table 23
 Analysis of ACL 
      December 31,
       2012
 2011 
2010 
 2009 
 2008 
       (Dollars in millions)
    Beginning balance 
$ 2,285 
$ 2,755 
$ 2,672 
 $ 1,607 
 $ 1,015 
  Provision for credit losses (excluding covered loans) 
 1,044 
 1,119 
 2,494 
   2,811 
  1,445 
 Provision for covered loans 
 13 
 71 
 144 
       Charge-offs: 
      Commercial (1) 
 (732)
 (898)
 (1,508)
   (720)
  (276)
   Direct retail lending 
 (224)
 (276)
 (338)
   (349)
  (156)
   Sales finance 
 (26)
 (32)
 (48)
   (72)
  (59)
   Revolving credit 
 (81)
 (95)
 (118)
   (127)
  (79)
   Residential mortgage (2) 
 (136)
 (269)
 (394)
   (280)
  (96)
   Other lending subsidiaries 
 (225)
 (190)
 (252)
   (314)
  (251)
   Covered loans 
 (34)
 (66)
           Total charge-offs (1)(2) 
 (1,458)
 (1,826)
 (2,658)
   (1,862)
  (917)
  Recoveries: 
      Commercial 
 71 
 71 
 37 
   21 
  16 
   Direct retail lending 
 36 
 37 
 33 
   19 
  12 
   Sales finance 
 10 
 9  9    9   7    Revolving credit 
 18 
 19 
 16 
   12 
  11 
   Residential mortgage 
 3  5  4    5   1    Other lending subsidiaries 
 26 
 25 
 31 
   23 
  19 
    Total recoveries 
 164 
 166 
 130 
   89 
  66 
 Net charge-offs (1)(2) 
 (1,294)
 (1,660)
 (2,528)
   (1,773)
  (851)
 Other changes, net 
   (27)
   27 
  (2)
 Ending balance 
$ 2,048 
$ 2,285 
$ 2,755 
 $ 2,672 
 $ 1,607 
 ALLL (excluding covered loans) 
$ 1,890 
$ 2,107 
$ 2,564 
 $ 2,600 
 $ 1,574 
 Allowance for covered loans 
  128 
  149 
  144 
       RUFC 
  30 
  29 
  47 
   72 
   33 
  Total ACL 
$ 2,048 
$ 2,285 
$ 2,755 
 $ 2,672 
 $ 1,607 
(1) 
Includes charge-offs of $464 million in
 commercial loans and leases during 
2010 in connection with BB&T's NPL 
disposition strategy. 
 (2) 
Includes charge-offs of $87 million and $141 million in residential mortgage loans during 2011 and 2010, 
respectively, in connection with BB&T's NPL disposition strategy. 
 Funding Activities 
 Deposits are the primary source of funds for lending and inves
ting activities.  Scheduled payments, as well as prepayments, 
and maturities from portfolios of loans and investment securitie
s also provide a stable source of funds.  FHLB advances, 
other secured borrowings, Federal funds purchased and other short-term borrowed funds, as well as longer-term debt issued 
through the capital markets, all provide supplemental liqui
dity sources.  BB&T™s funding activities are monitored and 
governed through BB&T™s overall asset/liability management process, which is further discussed in the ﬁMarket Risk 

Managementﬂ section in ﬁManagement™s Discussion and Analysis
 of Financial Condition and Results of Operationsﬂ herein.  
Following is a brief description of the various sources of funds used by BB&T.   
Deposits  
Deposits are attracted principally from clients within BB&T™s br
anch network through the offering of a broad selection of 
deposit instruments to individuals and businesses, including noninterest-bearing checking accounts, interest-bearing checking 
accounts, savings accounts, money market 
deposit accounts, CDs and individual re
tirement accounts.  Deposit account terms 
vary with respect to the minimum balance required, the time period the funds must remain on deposit and service charge 

schedules.  Interest rates paid on specific deposit types are determined based on (i) the interest rates offered by competitors
, (ii) the anticipated amount and timing of fu
nding needs, (iii) th
e availability and cost of altern
ative sources of funding, and
 (iv) anticipated future economic 
conditions and interest rates.  Deposits are 
attractive sources of f
unding because of their 
  63 
 stability and relative cost.  Deposits are regarded as an impo
rtant part of the overall client relationship and provide 
opportunities to cross-sell other BB&T services.   
Total deposits at December 31, 2012, were 
$133.1 billion, an in
crease of $8.1 billion, or 6.5%, 
compared to year-end 2011.  
Noninterest-bearing deposits totaled $32.5 billion at Decembe
r 31, 2012, an increase of $6
.8 billion, or 26.4%, from 
December 31, 2011.  The increase in noninter
est-bearing deposits was broad based in na
ture, with increases in deposits from 
personal, business and public funds clients.
  Interest checking and money market an
d savings accounts increased $3.7 billion, 
or 5.6% compared to the prior year, while certificates and other 
time deposits declined $2.3 billion, or 6.7%, during that same
 time period.  For the year ended December 
31, 2012, total depos
its averaged $127.6 
billion, an increase of
 $15.3 billion, or 
13.6%, compared to 2011.  Management currently expects more modest deposit growth in the first quarter of 2013. 
The following table presents 
BB&T™s average deposits for the years ende
d December 31, 2012 and 2011, segregated by 
major category: 
 Table 24
Composition of Average Deposits 
                 Years Ended December 31,
     2012
 2011 
    Balance
% of total 
 Balance 
 % of total 
    (Dollars in millions)
   Noninteres
t-bearing deposits 
$ 28,925 
 22.7 
% $  22,945 
 20.4 
%  Interest checking 
  19,904 
 15.6 
    18,614 
 16.6 
   Money market and savings 
  46,927 
 36.7 
    41,287 
 36.7 
   Certificates and other time deposits 
  31,647 
 24.8 
    28,825 
 25.7 
   Foreign office deposits - interest-bearing 
  214 
 0.2 
    647 
 0.6 
    Total average deposits 
$ 127,617 
 100.0 
% $  112,318 
 100.0 
% The overall mix of deposits improved during 2012, with average noninterest-bearing deposits representing 22.7% of average 
total deposits during 2012, compared to 20.4% during 2011. 
 Deposit mix was also positively impacted by certificates and 
other time deposits, which represented 24.8% of average total deposits during 2012, down from 25.7% of average total 
deposits during 2011.  The average cost of interest-bearing 
deposits was 0.43% for 2012, compared to 0.68% in the prior 
year.  Management expects that deposit cost
s will continue to trend downward in 2013. 
The following table provides information regarding the scheduled 
maturities of time deposits th
at are $100,000 and greater at 
December 31, 2012: 
 Table 25
Scheduled Maturities of Time De
posits $100,000 and Greater 
         December 31, 2012
   (Dollars in millions)
  Three months or less 
$ 7,675 
  Over three through six months 
 4,163 
  Over six through twelve months 
 3,054 
  Over twelve months 
 4,436 
   Total 
$ 19,328 
 Short-term Borrowings  
BB&T also uses various types of short-term borrowings in mee
ting funding needs.  While deposits remain the primary source 
for funding loan originations, management uses short-term borrowings as a supplementary funding source for loan growth 
and other balance sheet management purposes.  Short-term borrowings were 1.9% of total funding on average in 2012 as 
compared to 3.2% in 2011.  See Note 8 ﬁFederal Funds Purc
hased, Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase and 
Short-Term Borrowed Fundsﬂ in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statementsﬂ herein for further disclosure.  The types of 
short-term borrowings that have been, or may be, used by 
the Company include Federal funds purchased, securities sold 
under repurchase agreements, master notes, commercial paper, U.S. Treasury tax and loan deposit notes and short-term bank 
notes.  All of BB&T™s securities sold under repurchase agreemen
ts are reflected as collateralized borrowings on the balance 
sheet.  Short-term borrowings at the end of 2012 were $2.9 billi
on, a decrease of $702 million, 
or 19.7%, compared to year-
  64 
 end 2011.  Average short-term bo
rrowings totaled $3.4 billion during 2012 comp
ared to $5.2 billion last year, a decrease of 
34.3%.  The decline in the balances du
ring 2012 primarily reflects the strong deposit growth described previously. 
The following table summarizes certain pertinent information fo
r the past three years with re
spect to BB&T™s short-term 
borrowings:  
 Table 26
Federal Funds Purchased, Securities Sold Under 
Agreements to Repurchase and Short-Term Borrowed Funds 
                         As Of / For The Years Ended December 31,
        2012
 2011
  2010
        (Dollars in millions)
    Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase:
             Maximum outstanding at any month-end during the year 
$ 813 
 $ 1,176 
  $  2,299 
    Balance outstanding at end of year 
  514 
   619 
    1,189 
    Average outstanding during the year 
  651 
   956 
    1,620 
    Average interest rate during the year 
  0.30 
%  0.73 
%    0.85 
%   Average interest rate at end of year 
  0.33 
   0.31 
    0.96 
   Federal Funds Purchased and Short-Term Borrowed Funds: 
             Maximum outstanding at any month-end during the year 
$ 3,627 
 $ 9,350 
  $  10,486 
    Balance outstanding at end of year 
  2,350 
   2,947 
    4,484 
    Average outstanding during the year 
  2,757 
   4,233 
    7,402 
    Average interest rate during the year 
  0.20 
%  0.10 
%    0.10 
%   Average interest rate at end of year 
  0.19 
   0.17 
    0.32 
  Long-term Debt 
 BB&T uses long-term debt to provide both funding and, to a le
sser extent, regulatory capital.  During 2012, long-term debt 
represented 11.6% of average to
tal funding, compared to 13.7
% during 2011.  At December 31
, 2012, long-term debt totaled 
$19.1 billion, a decrease of $2.7 billion compared to year-end 2
011.  The average cost of long-term debt was 3.02% in 2012, 
compared to 3.40% in 2011.  See Note 10
 ﬁLong-Term Debtﬂ in the ﬁNotes to Cons
olidated Financial Statementsﬂ herein for 
further disclosure. 
BB&T™s long-term debt consists primarily of FHLB advances, which represented 47.1% of total outstanding long-term debt 
at December 31, 2012; senior notes of BB&
T, which represented 31.6% 
of the year-end balance;
 subordinated notes of 
BB&T, which represented 11.3% of the year-end balance; and subordinated notes of Branch Bank, which represented 6.4% 
of total outstanding long-term debt at December 31, 2012.  FH
LB advances are cost-effective long-term funding sources that 
provide BB&T with the flexibility to structure the debt in a manner that aids in the management of interest rate risk and 

liquidity. 
The decrease in long-term debt reflects the redemption of $3.3 billion of junior subordinated debt and the maturity of $1.0 
billion in senior debt.  The redemption of the junior subordin
ated debt was initiated based on
 the early redemption provisions 
of the related trust preferred securities due to the fact that
 they will no longer qualify fo
r Tier 1 capital treatment.   
These decreases in long-term debt were partially offset by the 
issuance of $2.3 billion of seni
or and subordinated notes with 
interest rates ranging from 1.45% to 3.95%.  
Shareholders™ Equity 
 Shareholders™ equity totaled $21.2 billion at
 December 31, 2012, an increase of $3.7 
billion, or 21.4%, fr
om year-end 2011.  
BB&T™s book value per common share at December 31, 2012 wa
s $27.21, compared to $24.98
 at December 31, 2011.   
The increase in shareholders™ equity during 2012 includes $2.1 
billion in net proceeds from the issuance of Tier 1 qualifying 
non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock. 
 See Note 11 ﬁShareholders™ Equityﬂ in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial 
Statementsﬂ herein for further disclosure.  In addition, shar
eholders™ equity increased $1.4 billion due to BB&T™s earnings 
available to common shareholders retained after dividends declar
ed, and $113 million as a result of the issuance of additional 
shares and other transactions in connection with BB&T™s equity-based compensation plans, 401(k) plan and dividend 
reinvestment plan.  Accumulated other comprehensive income 
increased $154 million.  Th
e increase in accumulated other 
comprehensive income was primarily due to a $335 million after-tax increase in the value of the available for sale securities 
  65 
 portfolio, partially offset by declines of $111 million related to pensions and other post-retirement benefit plans and $61 
million related to an increase in amounts attributable to the FDIC under loss share agreements.   
BB&T™s tangible book value per common share at December 31
, 2012 was $17.52 compared to $16.73 at December 31, 
2011.  As of December 31, 2012, measures
 of tangible capital were not required 
by the regulators and, therefore, were 
considered non-GAAP measures.  Refer to the section titled ﬁC
apitalﬂ herein for a discussion of how BB&T calculates and 
uses these measures in the evaluation of the Company.   
Risk Management 
 In the normal course of business BB&T encounters inherent 
risk in its business activities.  Risk is managed on a 
decentralized basis with risk decisions ma
de as closely as possible to where the source of risk occurs.  Centrally, risk 
oversight is managed at the corporate level through oversight, policies and reporting.  The principal types of inherent risk 
include regulatory, credit, liquidity, market, ope
rational, reputation and strategic risks.   
Regulatory risk 
 Regulatory risk is the risk to earnings, capital, or reputation arising from violations of, or nonconformance with current and 
changing laws, regulations, supervisory guidance, regulatory expect
ations, or the rules, standards, or codes of conduct of self
 regulatory organizations.   
Credit risk  Credit risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from 
the default, inability or unwillingness of a borrower, obligor, or 
counterparty to meet the terms of any financial obligation with
 BB&T or otherwise perform as ag
reed.  Credit risk exists in 
all activities where success depends on the performance of a borro
wer, obligor, or counterparty.  Credit risk arises when 
BB&T funds are extended, committed, invested, or otherwise 
exposed through actual or imp
lied contractual agreements, 
whether on or off the balance sheet.  Credit risk also occurs 
when the credit quality of an issuer whose securities or other 
instruments the bank holds deteriorates.   
BB&T has established the following general practices to manage credit risk:  
 limiting the amount of credit that individual lenders may extend to a borrower;  
 establishing a process for credit approval accountability;  
 careful initial underwriting and anal
ysis of borrower, tr
ansaction, market and collateral risks;  
 ongoing servicing and monitoring of individual loans and lending relationships;  
 continuous monitoring of the portfolio, market dynamics and the economy; and  
 periodically reevaluating the bank™s strategy and overall exposure as economic, market and other relevant conditions 
change.   
The following discussion presents the principal types of lending conducted by BB&T and describes the underwriting 

procedures and overall risk management of BB&T™s lending function. 
Underwriting Approach  
Recognizing that the loan portfolio is a primary source of profitability and risk, proper loan underwriting is critical to 
BB&T™s long-term financial success.  BB&
T™s underwriting approach is designed 
to define acceptable combinations of 
specific risk-mitigating features that ensure credit relationships
 conform to BB&T™s risk philosophy.  Provided below is a 
summary of the most significant underwriting criteria used to evaluate new loans and loan renewals:  
 Cash flow and debt service coverage
Šcash flow adequacy is a necessary cond
ition of creditworthiness, meaning that 
loans must either be clearly supported by
 a borrower™s cash flow or, if not, must be justified by secondary repayment 
sources.   
 Secondary sources of repayment
Šalternative repayment funds are a significant ri
sk-mitigating factor as
 long as they are 
liquid, can be easily accessed and provi
de adequate resources to supplement the primary cash flow source.   
  66 
  Value of any underlying collateral
Šloans are generally secured by the asset be
ing financed.  Because an analysis of the 
primary and secondary sources of repayment is the most import
ant factor, collateral, unless it 
is liquid, does not justify 
loans that cannot be serviced by th
e borrower™s normal cash flows.   
 Overall creditworthiness of the customer, taking into account the customer™s relationships, both past and current, with 
BB&T and other lenders
ŠBB&T™s success depends on building lasting and mutually beneficial relationships with 
clients, which involves assessing thei
r financial position and background.   
 Level of equity invested in the transaction
Šin general, borrowers are required to contribute or invest a portion of their 
own funds prior to any loan advances.   
Commercial Loan and Lease Portfolio  
The commercial loan and lease 
portfolio represents the larg
est category of the 
Company™s total loan portfolio.  BB&T™s 
commercial lending program is generally targeted to serve sma
ll-to-middle market businesses wi
th sales of $250 million or 
less.  In addition, BB&T™s Corporate Bank
ing Group provides lending solutions to 
large corporate clients.  Traditionally, 
lending to small and mid-sized businesses has been among BB&T™s strongest market segments.   
Commercial and small business loans are primarily originated 
through BB&T™s Community Bank.  In accordance with the 
Company™s lending policy, each loan undergoes a detailed underwriting process, which incorporates BB&T™s underwriting 
approach, procedures and evaluations described above.  Commercia
l loans are typically priced with an interest rate tied to 
market indices, such as the prime rate 
or LIBOR.  Commercial loans are indivi
dually monitored and reviewed for any 
possible deterioration in the ability of the client to repay 
the loan.  Approximately 90% of BB&T™s commercial loans are 
secured by real estate, business equipment, inventories and other types of collateral. 
Direct Retail Loan Portfolio  
The direct retail loan portfolio primarily consists of a wide variety of loan products offered through BB&T™s branch network.  
Various types of secured and unsecured loans 
are marketed to qualifying existing clie
nts and to other cred
itworthy candidates 
in BB&T™s market area.  The vast majority of direct retail loans 
are secured by first or second 
liens on residential real estat
e and include both closed-end home equity loans and revolving home
 equity lines of credit.  Dir
ect retail loans are subject to 
the same rigorous lending policies and procedures as descri
bed above for commercial loans and are underwritten with note 
amounts and credit limits that ensure consistency with the Company™s risk philosophy.   
Sales Finance Loan Portfolio  
The sales finance category primarily include
s secured indirect installment loans to 
consumers for the purchase of new and 
used automobiles, boats and recreational vehicles.  Such loan
s are originated through approv
ed franchised and independent 
dealers throughout the BB&T market area.  These loans are relatively homogenous and no single loan is individually 
significant in terms of its size and potential risk of loss.  Sales finance loans are subject to the same rigorous lending poli
cies and procedures as described above for commercial loans and are 
underwritten with note amounts an
d credit limits that ensure 
consistency with the Company™s risk philosophy.  In ad
dition to its normal underwriting due diligence, BB&T uses 
application systems and ﬁscoring systemsﬂ to help underwrite and manage the credit risk in its sales finance portfolio.  Also 

included in the sales finance category are commercial lines, se
rviced by the Dealer Finance 
Department, to finance dealer 
wholesale inventory (ﬁFloor Plan Linesﬂ) for resale to consum
ers.  Floor Plan Lines are underwritten by commercial loan 
officers in compliance with the same rigorous lending policies de
scribed above for commercial loans.  In addition, Floor Plan 
Lines are subject to intensive monitoring and oversight to ensure quality and to mitigate risk, including from fraud.   
Revolving Credit Loan Portfolio  
The revolving credit portfolio 
comprises the outstanding balances on cred
it cards and BB&T™s checking account overdraft 
protection product, Constant Credit.  BB&T markets credit cards to its existing banking client base and does not solicit 
cardholders through nationwide programs or other forms of mass marketing.  Such balances are generally unsecured and 
actively managed. 
Residential Mortgage Loan Portfolio  
Branch Bank offers various types of fixed- and adjustable-rate loans for the purpose of constructing, purchasing or 
refinancing residential properties.  BB&
T primarily originates conforming mortgage loans and higher quality jumbo and 
construction-to-permanent loans for owner-occupied propertie
s.  Conforming loans are loans that are underwritten in 
accordance with the underwriting 
standards set forth by FNMA 
and FHLMC.  They are genera
lly collateralized by one-to-
  67 
 four-family residential real estate, typically have loan-to-collat
eral value ratios of 80% or less, and are made to borrowers i
n good credit standing.  Additionally, BB&T™s Direct Retail Lendin
g group provides home equity loans that can increase the 
loan-to-collateral value to 90% or less for certain borrowers.   
Risks associated with the mortgage lending function include interest rate risk, which is mitigated through the sale of a 
substantial portion of conforming fixed-rate loans in the secondary mortgage market and an effective MSR hedging process.  
Borrower risk is lessened through rigorous underwriting procedur
es and mortgage insurance.  The right to service the loans 
and receive servicing income is generally 
retained when conforming loans are sold. 
 Management believes that the retention 
of mortgage servicing is a primary relationship driver in retail banking and a vital part of management™s strategy to establish
 profitable long-term customer relationships and offer high quality
 client service.  BB&T also purchases residential mortgage 
loans from correspondent originators.  Th
e loans purchased from third-party origin
ators are subject to the same underwriting 
and risk-management criteria as lo
ans originated internally.   
Other Lending Subsidiaries Portfolio  
BB&T™s other lending subsidiaries portfolio consists of loans originated through six LOBs that provide specialty finance 
alternatives to consumers and businesses 
including: dealer-based financing of equipment for small businesses and consumers, 
commercial equipment leasing and finance, direct and indirect
 consumer finance, insurance premium finance, indirect 
nonprime automobile finance, and full-serv
ice commercial mortgage banking.  BB&T offe
rs these services to bank clients as 
well as nonbank clients within and outside 
BB&T™s primary geographic market area.   
BB&T™s other lending subsidiaries adhere to the same overall underwriting approach as the commercial and consumer 

lending portfolio and also utilize automated credit scoring to assi
st with underwriting credit risk
.  The majority of these loa
ns are relatively homogenous and no single loan is individually significant in terms of its size and potential risk of loss.  The 

majority of the loans are secured by 
real estate, automobiles, equipment or
 unearned insurance premiums.  As of 
December 31, 2012, included in 
the other lending subsidiaries portfolio are 
loans to nonprime borrowe
rs of approximately 
$3.6 billion, or 3.0% of the total BB&T loan and lease portfolio
.  Of these, approximately $262 million are residential real 
estate loans.   
Covered Loan Portfolio  
BB&T has $3.3 billion of loans covered by loss sharing agreemen
ts with the FDIC, which are primarily CRE and residential 
mortgage loans.  Refer to Note 3 ﬁLoans and Leasesﬂ in the ﬁN
otes to Consolidated Financial 
Statementsﬂ in this report for 
additional disclosures related to BB&T™s covered loans. 
Liquidity risk 
 Liquidity risk is the risk to ongoing
 operations arising from the inability to
 accommodate liability maturities, deposit 
withdrawals, fund asset growth, or meet contractual obligations
 when they come due.  For additional information concerning 
BB&T™s management of liquidity risk, see the ﬁLiquidityﬂ sec
tion of ﬁManagement™s Discussi
on and Analysisﬂ herein.   
Market risk  Market risk is the risk to earnings or 
capital arising from changes in the market 
value of portfolios, securities, or other 
financial instruments due to changes in the level, volatility, or
 correlations among financial ma
rket rates or prices, includin
g interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices, or othe
r relevant rates or prices.  For additional information concernin
g BB&T™s management of market risk, see the ﬁMarket Risk
 Managementﬂ section of ﬁM
anagement™s Discussion and 
Analysisﬂ herein.   
Operational risk 
 Operational risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from
 inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or
 from external events.  This definition includes legal risk, wh
ich is the risk of loss aris
ing from defective transactions, 
litigation or claims made, or the failure to adequately protect company-owned assets.   

Reputation risk 
 Reputation risk is the risk to earnings, ca
pital, enterprise value, the BB&T brand, 
and public confidence arising from negative
 publicity or public opinion, whether real or perceived, regarding BB&T™s business practices, products and services, 
transactions, or other activities undertaken by BB&T, its repr
esentatives, or its partners.  Reputation risk may impact 
BB&T™s clients, employees, communities or shareholders, and is 
often a residual risk that arises when other risks are not 
managed properly.   
  68 
 Strategic risk 
 Strategic risk is the risk to earnings, capital, enterprise va
lue, and to the achievement of 
BB&T™s Vision, Mission, Purpose, 
and business objectives that arises from BB&T™s business strategy, adverse business decisions, improper or ineffective 
implementation of decisions, or lack of responsiveness to changes in business environment.  Strategic risk is a function of the
 compatibility of BB&T™s strategic goals, the business strategies
 developed to achieve those goals, the resources deployed 
against these goals, and the quality of implementation.   
Risk Governance 
 The management of risk has always been an enterprise-wide in
itiative at BB&T.  It is part of BB&T™s mission statement that 
risk is managed to optimize the long-term return to shar
eholders, while providing a safe and sound investment.   
The Chief Risk Officer leads the RMO, which designs, organizes and manages BB&T™s risk framework.  The management of 
risk begins at the business level through risk identification and management programs.  The RMO is responsible for ensuring 

effective risk management oversight, measurement, monitoring, reporting and consistency of controls.   
Market Risk Management 
The effective management of market risk is essential to ac
hieving BB&T™s strategic financial objectives.  As a financial 
institution, BB&T™s most significant market risk exposure is intere
st rate risk in its balance sheet; however, market risk also
 includes product liquidity risk, price risk and volatility risk in 
BB&T™s lines of business.  The primary objectives of market 
risk management are to minimize any adverse 
effect that changes in market risk fact
ors may have on net interest income, and 
to offset the risk of price changes for ce
rtain assets recorded at fair value.  Ma
rket Risk Management also performs the 
enterprise-wide IPV function.   
Interest Rate Market Risk (Other than Trading)
 BB&T actively manages market risk associated with asset and liab
ility portfolios with a focus on the strategic pricing of asset
 and liability accounts and management of appropriate maturity mi
xes of assets and liabilities.  The goal of these activities is
 the development of appropriate maturity and repricing opportu
nities in BB&T™s portfolios of assets and liabilities that will 
produce reasonably consistent net interest income during periods of changing interest rates.  These portfolios are analyzed for
 proper fixed-rate and variable-rate mixes 
under various interest rate scenarios. 
The asset/liability management process is designed to achieve re
latively stable NIM and assure liquidity by coordinating the 
volumes, maturities or repricing opportunities of earning assets
, deposits and borrowed funds.  Among other things, this 
process gives consideration to prepayment trends related to s
ecurities, loans and leases and ce
rtain deposits that have no 
stated maturity.  Prepayment assumptions are developed using a combination of market data and internal historical 
prepayment experience for residential mortgage-related loans an
d securities, and internal historical prepayment experience 
for client deposits with no stated maturity and loans that ar
e not residential mortgage related.  These assumptions are subject
 to monthly back-testing, and are adjusted as deemed necessary to
 reflect changes in interest rates relative to the reference ra
te of the underlying assets or liabilities. 
 On a monthly basis, BB&T evaluates the 
accuracy of its interest rate forecast 
simulation model, which includes an evaluation of its prepayment assumptions, to ensure that all significant assumptions 

inherent in the model appropriately reflect 
changes in the interest rate environment 
and related trends in prepayment activity.
  It is the responsibility of the MRLCC to determine and achieve the most appropriate volume and mix of earning assets and 

interest-bearing liabilities, as well as to ensure an adequate le
vel of liquidity and capital, within the context of corporate 
performance goals.  The MRLCC al
so sets policy guidelines and establishes long-t
erm strategies with respect to interest rate 
risk exposure and liquidity.  The MRLCC meets regularly to re
view BB&T™s interest rate risk and liquidity positions in 
relation to present and prospective market and business conditions, and adopts funding and balance sheet management 

strategies that are intended to ensure that the potential impact
 on earnings and liquidity as a result of fluctuations in inter
est rates is within acceptable standards. 
BB&T uses derivatives primarily to manage economic risk re
lated to securities, commercial loans, MSRs and mortgage 
banking operations, long-term debt and other funding sources. 
 BB&T also uses derivatives to facilitate transactions on 
behalf of its clients.  As of December 31, 2012, BB&T had derivative financial instruments outstanding with notional 
amounts totaling $73.3 billion,
 with a net fair value of $13 mi
llion.  See Note 19 ﬁDerivativ
e Financial Instrumentsﬂ in the 
ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statementsﬂ herein for additional disclosures. 
The majority of BB&T™s assets and liabilities are monetary in natu
re and, therefore, differ grea
tly from most commercial and 
industrial companies that have significant investments in fixed assets or inventories.  Fluctuations in interest rates and acti
ons of the FRB to regulate the availability and cost of credit have
 a greater effect on a financial institution™s profitability tha
n do 
  69 
 the effects of higher costs for goods and services.  Through its balance sheet management function, which is monitored by the 
MRLCC, management believes that BB&T is positioned to respond to changing needs for liquidity, changes in interest rates 
and inflationary trends. 
Management uses the Simulation to measure the sensitivity of proj
ected earnings to changes in interest rates.  The Simulation 
model projects net interest income and interest rate risk for 
a rolling two-year period of time.  The Simulation takes into 
account the current contractua
l agreements that BB&T has made with its
 customers on deposits, borrowings, loans, 
investments and commitments to enter into those transactions.  
Furthermore, the Simulation cons
iders the impact of expected 
customer behavior.  Management monitors BB&T™s interest 
sensitivity by means of a model that incorporates current 
volumes, average rates earned and paid, and scheduled maturities an
d payments of asset and liability portfolios, together with 
multiple scenarios that include projected prepayments, repric
ing opportunities and anticipated volume growth.  Using this 
information, the model projects earnings based on projected port
folio balances under multiple interest rate scenarios.  This 
level of detail is needed to simulate the effect that changes in
 interest rates and portfolio ba
lances may have on the earnings
 of BB&T.  This method is subject to the accuracy of the assumptions that underlie the process, but management believes that 
it provides a better illustration of the sensitivity of earnings to changes in interest rates than other analyses such as stati
c or dynamic gap.  In addition to Simulation analysis, BB&T uses EVE analysis to focus on projected changes in capital given 

potential changes in interest rates.  This measure also allows 
BB&T to analyze interest rate risk that falls outside the analys
is window contained in the Simulation model.  The EVE model is a discounted cash flow of the entire portfolio of BB&T™s 
assets, liabilities, and derivatives instruments.  The difference 
in the present value of assets
 minus the present value of 
liabilities is defined as the economic value of BB&T™s equity. 
The asset/liability management process requires a number of 
key assumptions.  Management determines the most likely 
outlook for the economy and interest rates by analyzing external factors, including published economic projections and data, 
the effects of likely monetary and fiscal policies, as well as 
any enacted or prospective regula
tory changes.  BB&T™s current 
and prospective liquidity position, current balance sheet volume
s and projected growth, accessibility of funds for short-term 
needs and capital maintenance are also considered.  This data 
is combined with various interest rate scenarios to provide 
management with the information necessary to
 analyze interest sensitivity and to aid in
 the development of strategies to reach 
performance goals. 
The following table shows the effect that 
the indicated changes in interest rates would have on net interest income as 
projected for the next twelve months assuming a gradual change 
in interest rates as described below.  Key assumptions in the 
preparation of the table include prepayment speeds of mo
rtgage-related assets, cash flows and maturities of derivative 
financial instruments, loan volumes and pricing, deposit sens
itivity, customer preferences and 
capital plans.  The resulting 
change in net interest income reflects the level of sensitivity that interest-sensitive income has in relation to changing inte
rest rates. 
 Table 27
Interest Sensitivity Simulation Analysis 
    Interest Rate Scenario
 Annualized Hypothetical Percentage
      Linear
  Prime Rate
  Change in Net Interest Income
       Change in
  December 31,
  December 31,
       Prime Rate
  2012 
  2011  
   2012 
 2011  
       2.00 
%   5.25 
% 5.25 
%   3.16 
% 3.92 
%       1.00 
   4.25 
  4.25 
    2.04 
  2.27 
       No Change
   3.25 
  3.25 
              (0.25)
   3.00 
  3.00 
    (0.13)
  (0.55)
   The MRLCC has established parameters related to interest sensitivity that prescribe a maximum negative impact on net 
interest income under different interest rate scenarios.  In
 the event the results of the Simulation model fall outside the 
established parameters, management will make recommendations 
to the MRLCC on the most appropriate response given the 
current economic for
ecast.  The following parameters and interest rate 
scenarios are considered BB&
T™s primary measures of 
interest rate risk: 
 Maximum negative impact on net interest income of 2% for the next 12 months assuming a linear change 
in interest rates totaling 100 basis points over four months followed by a flat interest rate scenario for the 
remaining eight month period. 
 Maximum negative impact on net interest income of 4% for the next 12 months assuming a linear change 

of 200 basis points over eight months followed by a flat interest rate scenario for the remaining four month 
period.   
  70 
 These ﬁinterest rate rampﬂ limits are considered BB&T™s primary m
easure of interest rate risk.  If a rate change of 200 basis 
points cannot be modeled due to a low level of rates, a proportional limit applies.  Management currently only models a 
negative 25 basis point decline because larger declines would have
 resulted in a Federal funds rate of less than zero.  In a 
situation such as this, the maximum negative impact on net intere
st income is adjusted on a proportional basis.  Regardless of 
the proportional limit, the negative risk exposure limit will be the greater of 1% or the proportional limit.     
Management has also established a maximum negative impact on net interest income of 4% for an immediate 100 basis 
points change in rates and 8% for an immediate 200 basis points change in rates.  These ﬁinterest rate shockﬂ limits are 
designed to create an outer band of
 acceptable risk based upon a significant
 and immediate change in rates.   
Management must also consider how the balance sheet and interest rate risk position could be impacted by changes in 
balance sheet mix.  Liquidity in the banking industry has been very strong during the current economic downturn.  Much of 

this liquidity increase has been due to a significant increase 
in noninterest-bearing demand deposits.  Consistent with the 
industry, Branch Bank has seen a significan
t increase in this funding source.  The behavior of these deposits is one of the 
most important assumptions used in determining the interest ra
te risk position of BB&T.  A loss of these deposits in the 
future would reduce the asset sensitivity of BB&T™s balance sheet 
as the company increases interest-bearing funds to offset 
the loss of this advantageous funding source.  
Beta represents the correlation 
between overall market interest rates and the ra
tes paid by BB&T on interest-bearing deposits. 
 BB&T applies an average beta of approximately 80% to its manage
d rate deposits for determining 
its interest rate sensitivity.  
Managed rate deposits are high beta, premium money market and interest checking accounts, which attract significant client 
funds when needed to support balance sheet growth.  BB&
T regularly conducts sensitivity on other key variables to 
determine the impact they could have on the interest rate risk position.  This discipline informs management judgment and 
allows BB&T to evaluate the likely impact on its balance sheet
 management strategies due to a more extreme variation in a 
key assumption than expected. 
The following table shows the effect that 
the loss of demand deposits and an associ
ated increase in managed rate deposits 
would have on BB&T™s interest-rate sensitivity position.  For 
purposes of this analysis, BB&T modeled the beta at 100%. 
 Table 28
Deposit Mix Sensitivity Analysis 
                          Results Assuming a Decrease in
      Increase in
   Base Scenario 
 Noninterest Bearing Demand Deposits
      Rates
  at December 31, 2012 (1) 
 $1 Billion
$5 Billion 
      2.00 
%   3.16
%  2.92 
% 1.94 
%      1.00 
   2.04
   1.89 
  1.28 
             (1) 
The base scenario is equal to the annualized hypothetical per
centage change in net interest income at December 31, 2012 
as presented in the preceding table. 
The following table shows the effect that th
e indicated changes in interest rates would have on EVE.  Key assumptions in the 
preparation of the table include prepayment speeds of mo
rtgage-related and other assets, cash flows and maturities of 
derivative financial instruments, loan volumes and pricing and deposit sensitivity.  The resulting change in the EVE reflects 
the level of sensitivity that EVE has in relation to changing interest rates. 
   71 
 Table 29
EVE Simulation Analysis 
            Hypothetical Percentage
         EVE/Assets
 Change in EVE
      Change in
   December 31, 
  December 31, 
      Rates
   2012 
  2011  
  2012 
  2011  
      2.00 
%   7.5 
% 6.2 
%  16.6 
%   19.6 
%       1.00 
   7.2 
  5.9 
   11.9 
   13.3 
      No Change
   6.5 
  5.2 
             (0.25)
   6.2 
  4.9 
   (4.1)
   (4.9)
  Market Risk from Trading Activities
 BB&T also manages market risk from trading activities which consists of acting as a financial intermediary to provide its 
customers access to derivatives, foreign excha
nge and securities markets.  Trading mark
et risk is managed through the use of 
statistical and non-statistical risk measures and limits, with
 overall firm limits established through Board Policy.  BB&T 
utilizes a historical VaR methodology to measure and aggregat
e risks across its covered trading lines of business.  This 
methodology uses one year of historical data to estimate economic outcomes for a one-day time horizon at a 99% confidence 
level. 
The average VaR for the year ended December 31, 2012 wa
s less than $1 million.  
The maximum daily VaR was 
approximately $3 million, and the low daily VaR was less than $1 million during the same period. 
Liquidity 
Liquidity represents BB&T™s continuing ability to meet fund
ing needs, primarily deposit with
drawals, timely repayment of 
borrowings and other liabilities, and funding of loan commitments. 
 In addition to the level of liquid assets, such as cash, ca
sh equivalents and securities available for sale, many other factor
s affect the ability to meet liquidity needs, including access 
to a 
variety of funding sources, maintaining borrowing capacity in national money markets, growing core deposits, the repayment 
of loans and the capability to securitize or package loans for sa
le.  BB&T monitors key liquidity metrics at both the Parent 
Company and Branch Bank. 
Parent Company
   
The purpose of the Parent Company is to se
rve as the capital financing vehicle for the operating subsidiaries.  The assets of 
the Parent Company consist primarily of cash on deposit with 
Branch Bank, equity investments in subsidiaries, advances to 
subsidiaries, accounts receivable from subs
idiaries, and other miscellaneous assets.  
The principal obligations of the Parent 
Company are principal and interest paymen
ts on long-term debt.  The main sources of funds for the Parent Company are 
dividends and management fees from subsidiaries, repayments of advances to subsidiaries, and proceeds from the issuance of 
long-term debt.  The primary uses of funds by the Parent Company are for investments in subsidiaries, advances to 
subsidiaries, dividend payments to common and preferred shareholders, retirement of common stock and interest and 
principal payments due on long-term debt.   
The primary source of funds 
used for Parent Company cash requirements wa
s dividends received from subsidiaries, which 
totaled $1.8 billion during 2012.  In addition, the Parent Co
mpany issued $2.0 billion of senior notes and $300 million of 
subordinated notes during 2012, repaid $1.5 billion of maturing long-term debt and redeemed all of its junior subordinated 
debt to unconsolidated trusts.  Funds raised through master 
note agreements with commercial
 clients are placed in a note 
receivable at Branch Bank primarily for its use in meeting shor
t-term funding needs and, to 
a lesser extent, to support the 
short-term temporary cash need
s of the Parent Company.  At December 31, 20
12 and 2011, master not
e balances totaled $37 
million and $296 million, respectively.   
The Parent Company had ten issues of senior notes outstandin
g totaling $6.0 billion and four issues of subordinated notes 
outstanding totaling $2.2 billion 
at December 31, 2012.     
Liquidity at the Parent Company is more susceptible to ma
rket disruptions.  BB&T prudently manages cash levels at the 
Parent Company to cover a minimum of on
e year of projected contractual cash ou
tflows which includes unfunded external 
commitments, debt service, preferred dividends and scheduled de
bt maturities without the benefit of any new cash infusions.  
Generally, BB&T maintains a significant buffer above the project
ed one year of contractual cash outflows.  In determining 
the buffer, BB&T considers cash for common dividends, unfunded 
commitments to affiliates, being a source of strength to its 
banking subsidiaries, and being able to withstand sustained ma
rket disruptions which may limi
t access to the credit markets.  
  72 
 As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Parent Company had 35
 months and 23 months, respectively, of cash on hand to 
satisfy projected contractual cash outflows as described above. 
Branch Bank
 Branch Bank has several major sources of funding to meet its liquidity requirements, including access to capital markets 
through issuance of senior
 or subordinated bank notes and institutional CDs,
 access to the FHLB system, dealer repurchase 
agreements and repurchase agreements with
 commercial clients, access to the overnig
ht and term Federal funds markets, use 
of a Cayman branch facility, access to reta
il brokered CDs and a borrower in custod
y program with the FRB for the discount 
window.  As of December 31, 2012, BB&T has approximately 
$53 billion of secure
d borrowing capacity, which represents 
approximately 290% of one year wholesale funding maturities.   
BB&T also monitors the ability to meet customer demand for fu
nds under both normal and stressed market conditions.  In 
considering its liquidity position, management evaluates BB&T™s
 funding mix based on client core funding, client rate-
sensitive funding and non-client rate-sensiti
ve funding.  In addition, management also evaluates exposure to rate-sensitive 
funding sources that mature in one year or less.  Management also measures liquidity needs against 30 days of stressed cash 
outflows for Branch Bank.  To ensure a strong liquidity position, management maintains a liquid asset buffer of cash on hand 

and highly liquid unpledged securities.  The Company has established a policy that the liquid asset buffer would be a 
minimum of 5% of total assets, but intends to maintain the ratio
 well in excess of this level.  As of December 31, 2012, and 
December 31, 2011, BB&T™s liquid asset buffer was 11
.1% and 13.5%, respectively, of total assets. 
BB&T™s and Branch Bank™s ability to raise funding at competitive 
prices is affected by the rating agencies™ views of BB&T™s 
and Branch Bank™s credit quality, liquidity, capital and earnings.
  Management meets with the rating agencies on a routine 
basis to discuss the current outlook for BB&T and Branch Bank.  The ratings for BB&T and Branch Bank by the four major 

rating agencies are detailed in the table below. 
 Table 30
Credit Ratings of BB&T Corporation and Branch Bank 
December 31, 2012 
     S&PMoody's 
 Fitch 
 DBRS 
  BB&T Corporation:
          Commercial Paper 
A-2 
P-1  F1  R-1(low)    Issuer 
A- 
A2 
 A+ 
 A(high) 
   LT/Senior debt 
A- 
A2 
 A+ 
 A(high) 
   Subordinated debt 
BBB+ A3 
 A  A    Subordinated shelf short term 
A-2 
N/A 
 F1  N/A 
  Branch Bank: 
         Bank financial strength 
N/A 
B-  a+  N/A 
   Long term deposits 
A A1 
 AA- 
 AA(low) 
   LT/Senior unsecured bank notes 
A A1 
 A+ 
 AA(low) 
   Other long term senior obligations 
A A1 
 A+ 
 AA(low) 
   Other short term senior obligations 
A-1 
P-1  F1  R-1(middle) 
   Short term bank notes 
A-1 
P-1  F1  R-1(middle) 
   Short term deposits 
A-1 
P-1  F1+ 
 R-1(middle) 
   Subordinated bank notes 
A- 
A2 
 A  A(high) 
  Ratings Outlook: 
        Credit Trend 
Stable  Stable  Stable  Stable  BB&T and Branch Bank have Contingency Funding Plans designed to ensure that liquidity sources are sufficient to meet 
their ongoing obligations and commitments, particularly in the ev
ent of a liquidity contraction.  These plans are designed to 
examine and quantify the organi
zation™s liquidity under various ﬁstressﬂ s
cenarios.  Additionally
, the plans provide a 
framework for management and other critical personnel to follow in
 the event of a liquidity contraction or in anticipation of 
such an event.  The plans address authority for activation and decision making, liquidity options and the responsibilities of 
key departments in the event of a liquidity contraction.  The liquidity options available to management could include seeking 
secured funding, asset sales, and under the most ex
treme scenarios, curtailing new loan originations. 
Management believes current sources of liquidity are adequate to meet BB&T™s current requirements and plans for continued 

growth.  See Note 5 ﬁPremises and Equipment,ﬂ Note 10 ﬁLong-Term Debtﬂ and Note 15 ﬁCommitments and Contingenciesﬂ 
  73 
 in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statementsﬂ for additional information regarding outstanding balances of sources of 
liquidity and contractual commitments and obligations. 
Contractual Obligations, Commitments, Contingent Liabilit
ies, Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements, And Related Party 
Transactions  
The following table presents, as
 of December 31, 2012, BB&T™s significant fi
xed and determinable contractual obligations 
by payment date.  The payment amounts represent those amounts contractually due to the recipient.  The table excludes 
liabilities recorded where management cannot reasonably estima
te the timing of any payments that may be required in 
connection with these liabilities.  Further discussion of the natu
re of each obligation is included in Note 15 ﬁCommitments 
and Contingenciesﬂ in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements.ﬂ 
 Table 31
Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments 
December 31, 2012 
        Less than 
1 to 3 
 3 to 5 
After 5 
       Total
 One Year 
Years 
 Years 
Years 
       (Dollars in millions)
  Long-term debt 
$ 18,825 
$ 1,655 
$ 3,046 
 $ 6,318 
$ 7,806 
Operating leases 
 1,430 
 197 
 345 
  275 
 613 
Commitments to fund affordable housing investments 
 461 
 265 
 178 
  14 
 4 Private equity 
commitments (1)  129 
 39 
 68 
  20 
 2 Time deposits 
 31,624 
 21,130 
 7,795 
  2,698 
 1 Contractual interest payments (2) 
 4,385 
 827 
 1,287 
  871 
 1,400 
 Total contractual cash obligations 
$ 56,854 
$ 24,113 
$ 12,719 
 $ 10,196 
$ 9,826 
 (1) 
Maturities are based on estimated payment dates. 
 (2) 
Includes accrued interest and future contractual interest obliga
tions.  Variable rate payments are based upon the rate in 
effect at December 31, 2012. 
BB&T™s significant commitments include investments in affordable housing and historic building rehabilitation projects 
throughout its market area
 and private equity funds.  Refer to Note 1 ﬁSummary of Significant Accounting Policiesﬂ and to 
Note 15 ﬁCommitments and Contingenciesﬂ in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statementsﬂ for further discussion of 
these commitments. 
In addition, BB&T enters into derivative contracts to manage va
rious financial risks.  A derivative is a financial instrument 
that derives its cash flows, and therefore its value, by reference to an underlying instrument, index or referenced interest ra
te.  Derivative contracts are carried at fair 
value on the Consolidated Balance Sheets with the fair value representing the net 
present value of expected future cash receipts or payments base
d on market interest rates as of the balance sheet date.  
Derivative contracts are written in amounts referred to as notional amounts, which only provide the basis for calculating 
payments between counterparties and are not a measure of financ
ial risk.  Therefore, the derivative liabilities recorded on the
 balance sheet as of December 31, 2012 do
 not represent the amounts that may ultima
tely be paid under these contracts.  
Further discussion of derivative instruments is included in Note 1 ﬁSummary of Significant Accounting Policiesﬂ and Note 

19 ﬁDerivative Financial Instrumentsﬂ in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements.ﬂ  
In the ordinary course of business, BB&T indemnifies its officer
s and directors to the fullest extent permitted by law against 
liabilities arising from litigation.  BB&T also issues standard
 representation and warranties in underwriting agreements, 
merger and acquisition agreements, loan sales, brokerage activ
ities and other similar arrangements.  Counterparties in many 
of these indemnifications provide similar indemnifications 
to BB&T.  Although these agr
eements often do not specify 
limitations, BB&T does not believe that any payments related to
 these guarantees would mate
rially change the financial 
condition or results of 
operations of BB&T.  
BB&T holds public funds in certain states that do not require 
100% collateralization on public fund bank deposits.  In these 
states, should the failure of another public fund depository institution result in a loss for the public entity, the resulting 
shortfall would have to be absorbed on a pro-rata basis by the remaining financial institutions holding public funds in that 
state.  As a member of the FHLB, BB&T is required to maintain a mini
mum investment in capital stock.  The board of directors of 
the FHLB can increase the minimum investme
nt requirements in the event it has concluded that additional capital is required 
to allow it to meet its own regulatory capital requirements.  Any increase in the minimum investment requirements outside of 
  74 
 specified ranges requires the approval of the Federal Housing Finance Agency.  Because the extent of any obligation to 
increase BB&T™s investment in the FHLB de
pends entirely upon the occu
rrence of a future event, potential future payments 
to the FHLB are not determinable.  
In the normal course of business, BB&T is also a party to financial instruments to meet the financing needs of clients and to 
mitigate exposure to interest rate risk.  Such financial instruments include commitments to extend credit and certain 
contractual agreements, including standby le
tters of credit and financial guarantee arra
ngements.  Further discussion of these 
commitments is included in Note 15 ﬁCommitments and Contingenciesﬂ in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements.ﬂ  
BB&T™s significant commitments and obligati
ons are summarized in the accompanying 
table.  Not all of the commitments 
presented in the table will be used, thus the actual cash requ
irements are likely to be si
gnificantly less than the amounts 
reported. 
 Table 32
Summary of Significant Commitments 
                December 31, 2012 
                 (Dollars in millions)
   Lending commitments 
 $ 43,760 
 Letters of credit and financial guarantees written 
  5,164 
  Total significant commitments 
 $ 48,924 
Related Party Transactions 
 The Company may extend credit to 
its officers and directors in the ordinary course of business.  These loans are made under 
substantially the same terms as comparable third-party lending 
arrangements and are in compliance with applicable banking 
regulations. 
Capital  
The maintenance of appropriate levels of 
capital is a management priority and is monitored on a regular basis.  BB&T™s 
principal goals related to the maintenance of capital are to pr
ovide adequate capital to suppor
t BB&T™s risk profile consistent
 with the Board-approved risk appetite, provide financial flexibility
 to support future growth an
d client needs, comply with 
relevant laws, regulations, and supervisory guidance, achiev
e optimal credit ratings for BB&T and its subsidiaries and 
provide a competitive return to shareholders. 
Management regularly monitors the capital position of BB&T on bo
th a consolidated and bank level basis.  Capital ratios are 
determined using operatin
g forecasts and plans as well as stressed scenarios.  In this regard, management™s overriding policy 
is to maintain capital at levels that are in excess of the 
operating capital guidelines, whic
h are above the regulatory ﬁwell 
capitalizedﬂ levels.  Management has recently implemented st
ressed capital ratio minimum gui
delines to evaluate whether 
capital levels are sufficient to withstand the impact of plausible, severe economic downturns or bank-specific events.  The 
following table presents the minimum capital ratios: 
 Table 33
BB&T's Internal Capital Guidelines 
  Operating 
 Stressed 
  Tier 1 Capital Ratio 
 9.5 
%   7.5 
%  Total Capital Ratio 
 11.5 
   9.5 
   Tier 1 Leverage Capital Ratio 
 6.5 
   5.0 
   Tangible Capital Ratio 
 5.5 
   4.0 
   Tier 1 Common Equity Ratio 
 8.0 
   6.0 
  Payments of cash dividends to BB&T™s shareholders and repurchases of common shares are the methods used to manage any 
excess capital generated.  In addition, management closely monitors the Parent Company™s double leverage ratio 
(investments in subsidiaries as a percentage of shareholders™ 
equity) with the intention of maintaining the ratio below 125%.  
The active management of the subsidiaries™ equity capital, as described above, is the process used to manage this important 

driver of Parent Company liquidity and is a key elem
ent in the management of BB&T™s capital position.   
The capital of BB&T™s subsidiaries is regularly monitored to de
termine if the levels that management believes are the most 
beneficial and efficient fo
r their operations are maintained.  Management intend
s to maintain capital at Branch Bank at levels 
that will result in these subsidiaries being classified as 
ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ for regulatory purposes.  Secondarily, it is 
  75 
 management™s intent to maintain Branch Bank™s capital at leve
ls that result in regulatory risk-based capital ratios that are 
generally comparable with peers of similar size, complexity and ri
sk profile.  If the capital le
vels of Branch Bank increase 
above these guidelines, excess capital may be 
transferred to the Parent Company, subj
ect to regulatory and other operating 
considerations, in the form of special dividend payments.   
While nonrecurring events or management decisions may result in the Company temporarily falling below its minimum 
guidelines for one or more of these ratios, it is management™s intent through capital planning to return to these targeted 
minimums within a reasonable period of
 time.  Such temporary decreases below 
these minimums are not considered an 
infringement of BB&T™s overall capital policy provided the 
Company and Branch Bank 
remain ﬁwell-capitalized.ﬂ 
Risk-based capital ratios, which include Tier 1 Capital, Tota
l Capital and Tier 1 Common Equity, are calculated based on 
regulatory guidance related to the measurement of capital and 
risk-weighted assets.  BB&T reevaluated its process related to 
calculating risk-weighted assets 
and determined that certain ad
justments, primarily related to the presentation of certain 
unfunded lending commitments, were required in order to conform to regulatory guidance.  These adjustments resulted in an 
increase to risk-weighted assets and a d
ecrease in BB&T™s risk-based capital ratios 
under the Basel I regulatory guidance.  
These adjustments had a minimal impact on BB&T™s Basel III ratio as calculated based on the June 7, 2012 NPR. 
BB&T™s Tier 1 common equity ratio was 9.3% at Decembe
r 31, 2012.  The acquisitions
 of Crump Insurance and 
BankAtlantic during the second and third quarters of 2012, re
spectively, had a negative impact
 on regulatory capital, as a 
result of the intangible assets associated with those acquisiti
ons.  This negative regulatory capital impact was offset by stro
ng 
capital generation during 2012.   
BB&T regularly performs stress testing on its capital levels and 
is required to periodically submit the company™s capital plans
 to the banking regulators.  Management™s capital deployment plan in order of preference is to focus on organic growth, 
dividends, strategic opportunities and share repurchases. 
 Table 34
Capital Ratios (1) 
        December 31,
       2012 
 2011 
        (Dollars in millions, except per share data)
  Risk-based: 
          Tier 1   11.0 
%    12.0 
%   Total 
  13.9 
    15.1 
   Leverage capital 
  8.2 
    9.0 
                 Non-GAAP capital measures (2): 
          Tier 1 common equity as a percentage of tangible assets 
  6.9 
    6.9 
    Tier 1 common equity as a percenta
ge of risk-weighted assets (3) 
  9.3 
    9.4 
                 Calculations of Tier 1 common equity and tangible assets and related measures: 
          Tier 1 equity $ 14,373 
  $  14,913 
    Less:            Qualifying restricted core capital elements 
  2,116 
    3,250 
    Tier 1 common equity 
$ 12,257 
  $  11,663 
    Total assets 
$ 183,872 
  $  174,579 
    Less:            Intangible assets, net of deferred taxes 
  7,273 
    6,406 
    Plus: 
           Regulatory adjustments, net of deferred taxes 
  212 
    421 
    Tangible assets 
$ 176,811 
  $  168,594 
    Total risk-weighted assets (3) 
$ 131,096 
  $  124,507 
   Tier 1 common equity 
$ 12,257 
  $  11,663 
   Outstanding shares at end of period (in thousands) 
  699,728 
    697,143 
   Tangible book value per common share 
$ 17.52 
  $  16.73 
  (1) The Company has revised its calculation of risk-wei
ghted assets and adjusted the applicable ratios. 
  76 
 (2) Tier 1 common equity ratios are non-GAAP measures.  BB
&T uses the Tier 1 common equity definition used in the 
SCAP assessment to calculate these ratios.  Management uses
 these measures to assess the quality of capital and believes 
that investors may find them useful in their analysis of
 the Company.  These capital 
measures are not necessarily 
comparable to similar capital measures that
 may be presented by other companies. 
(3) Risk-weighted assets are determined based on regulatory capital requirements.   
As of December 31, 2012, management currently estimates the 
Tier 1 common ratio under the cu
rrently proposed U.S. Basel 
III standards to be 7.9%.  The proposed U.S. Basel III standards incorporate changes to the risk-weighting of loans secured 
by residential properties, requiring consideration of loan-t
o-value ratios in determining risk-weighting.  Management™s 
estimate of the Tier 1 common ratio under the proposed U.S. Base
l III standards does not include any mitigation strategies to 
improve capital levels, which management believes will have a 
significant positive impact on this measure.  The following 
table presents the calculation of the Tier 1 common e
quity ratio under the proposed Basel III guidelines. 
 Table 35
Estimated Basel III Capital Ratio Under Proposed U.S. Rules (1) 
      December 31, 2012
      (Dollars in millions)
  Tier 1 common equity under Basel I definition 
$  12,257
   Adjustments: 
      OCI related to AFS securities, defined benefit  
       pension and other postretirement employee benefit plans 
  (385)
    Other adjustments 
  (9)
   Estimated Tier 1 common equity under proposed Basel III definition 
$  11,863
   Estimated risk-weighted assets under proposed Basel III definition 
$  150,300
   Estimated Tier 1 common equity as a percentage of risk-weighted assets under proposed 
      Basel III definition 
  7.9
%  (1) 
The estimated Basel III capital ratio is a non-GAAP measur
e and reflects adjustments fo
r the related elements as 
proposed by regulatory authorities, which are subject to ch
ange.  BB&T management uses this measure to assess the 
quality of capital and believes that investors may find it useful in
 their analysis of the Company.  This capital measure is 
not necessarily comparable to similar capital measur
es that may be presented by other companies. 
Fourth Quarter Results 
Consolidated net income available to common shareholders fo
r the fourth quarter of 2012 totaling $506 million was up 
29.4% compared to $391 million earned duri
ng the same period in 2011.  On a diluted per common share basis, earnings for 
the fourth quarter of 2012 were $0.71, up 29.1% compared to $0.55 for the same period in 2011.  BB&T™s results of 
operations for the fourth quarter of 2012 produced an annualized return on average assets of 1.20% and an annualized return 
on average common shareholders™ equity of 10.51% compared to prior year ratios of 0.93% and 8.76%, respectively. 
Total revenues were $2.5 billion for the fourth quarter of 2012, 
up $122 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2011.  The 
increase in total revenues included $24 million of higher taxable-equivalent net interest income, which was primarily driven 
by a 21.4% decrease in funding costs from the same quarter of the prior year.  NIM was 3.84%, down 18 basis points 

compared to the fourth quarter of 2011, which reflects covere
d loan run-off and lower yields on new loans and securities 
partially offset by lower funding costs.  Noninterest income in
creased $98 million, primarily attributable to a $108 million 
increase in insurance income and a $96 million increase in mortgage banking income, offset by a $103 million decrease in 

net securities gains. 
Noninterest expenses were $1.5 billion for the fourth quarter of
 2012, a decrease of $130 million, or 8.0%, compared to the 
fourth quarter of 2011.  The decrease in noninterest expenses was primarily due to a $298 million decrease in foreclosed 
property expense, which was the result of losses and writedowns in the prior year quarter when management implemented a 
more aggressive approach to reduce foreclosed real estate.  Th
is decrease was partially offset 
by a $144 million increase in 
personnel expense primarily due to the Crump Insurance and BankAtlantic acquisitions, increased production-related 
incentives and commissions and certain other increases in salaries and benefits. 
  77 
 The provision for credit losses, excluding covered loans, for th
e fourth quarter of 2012 totaled $256 million, compared to 
$223 million for fourth quarter of 2011.  The increase in the 
provision for credit losses reflects a smaller reserve release in
 the 
fourth quarter of 2012 than was recorded in the same quarter of the prior year.  Net charge-offs, excluding covered loans, for 
the fourth quarter of 2012 were $85 million lower than the fo
urth quarter of 2011 reflecting improved credit quality.  NPAs 
declined $914 million, or 37.3% compared to the fourth quarter of 2011. 
The provision for income taxes was $207 million for the fourth quarter of 2012 compared to $84 million for the fourth 
quarter of 2011.  The effective tax rate 
for the fourth quarter of 2012 was 27.4% compared to 17.4% for the prior year™s 
fourth quarter.  The increase in the effective tax rate was pr
imarily due to higher levels of pre-tax earnings relative to 
permanent tax differences in
 2012 compared to 2011. 
The accompanying table, ﬁQuarterly Financial SummaryŠUnaudite
d,ﬂ presents condensed information relating to quarterly 
periods in the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. 
 Table 36
Quarterly Financial Summary
Unaudited 
    2012
2011 
    Fourth
 Third
Second 
First 
Fourth 
Third
  Second 
First 
    Quarter
 Quarter
Quarter 
Quarter 
Quarter 
Quarter 
 Quarter 
Quarter 
    (Dollars in millions, except per share data)
 Consolidated Summary of Operations:
                    Interest income $ 1,726 
$ 1,720$ 1,728 
$ 1,743$ 1,769 
$ 1,750 
 $ 1,690 
$ 1,676 Interest expense 
 250  237 266  307 317  334   336  391 Provision for credit losses 
 252  244 273  288 272  250   328  340 Securities gains (losses), net 
    (1)  (2)  (9)  103   (39)   (2)   Other noninterest income 
  1,020 
  964  968   880  819   729    789   714 Noninterest expense 
  1,488 
  1,529  1,426 
  1,385  1,618 
  1,417 
   1,395 
  1,372 Provision for income taxes 
  207   177  191   189  84   68    91   53 Net income 
  549   496  538   445  400   371    327   234 Noncontrolling interest 
  13   2  20   14  9   5    20   9 Preferred stock dividends 
  30   25  8             Net income available to common 
                   shareholders 
$ 506 $ 469$ 510 $ 431$ 391 $ 366  $ 307 $ 225 Basic earnings per common share 
$ 0.72 
$ 0.67$ 0.73 
$ 0.62$ 0.56 
$ 0.52 
 $ 0.44 
$ 0.32 Diluted earnings per common share 
$ 0.71 
$ 0.66$ 0.72 
$ 0.61$ 0.55 
$ 0.52 
 $ 0.44 
$ 0.32Selected Average Balances: 
                  Assets 
$ 182,204 
$ 179,306$ 176,870 
$ 173,969$ 171,496 
$ 165,520 
 $ 157,730 
$ 156,931 Securities, at amortized cost 
  36,383 
  35,260  37,114 
  36,589  35,867 
  31,567 
   27,060 
  25,059 Loans and leases (1) 
  117,103 
  115,609  111,760 
  110,403  108,523 
  105,658 
   104,341 
  105,294 Total earning assets 
  156,863 
  153,918  152,385 
  150,494  147,364 
  141,259 
   134,235 
  133,331 Deposits   131,762 
  128,695  125,348 
  124,606  121,925 
  115,056 
   106,466 
  105,614 Federal funds purchased, securities 
                   sold under repurchase  
                   agreements and s
hort-term debt   3,340 
  3,478  3,362 
  3,452  3,727 
  4,307 
   5,486 
  7,286 Long-term debt   18,689 
  19,682  22,544 
  21,720  21,689 
  22,347 
   23,114 
  21,879 Total interest-bearing liabilities 
  121,942 
  121,865  123,611 
  123,605  122,125 
  118,340 
   112,915 
  113,789 Shareholders' equity 
  21,188 
  20,125  18,737 
  17,829  17,755 
  17,551 
   17,072 
  16,673(1) Loans and leases are net of unearned income and include LHFS. 
  78 
 ITEM 9A.  CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
 Management™s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting and Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and 
Procedures 
Management of BB&T is responsible for establishing and mainta
ining adequate internal control over financial reporting as 
defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act.  The Comp
any™s internal control over financial reporting is a process 
designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliab
ility of financial reporting and the preparation of financial 
statements for external purposes in acc
ordance with GAAP.  BB&T™s internal cont
rol over financial reporting includes those 
policies and procedures that (1) pertain to 
the maintenance of records, that in reas
onable detail, accurately and fairly reflec
t the transactions and disposition of the Company™s assets; (2) pr
ovide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as 
necessary to permit the preparation of 
the financial statements in accordance with
 GAAP and that recei
pts and expenditures 
of the Company are being made only in accordance with the au
thorizations of BB&T™s management and directors; and (3) 
provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely de
tection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the 
Company™s assets that could have a materi
al impact on the financial statements.   
Because of its inherent limitations, intern
al control over financial reporting may not
 prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, 
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods 
are subject to the risk that co
ntrols may become inadequate 
due to changes in conditions, or that the degree of complia
nce with the policies and procedures may deteriorate.   
Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief 
Financial Officer, the Company conducted an
 evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting 
based on the framework in ﬁInternal ControlŠIntegrated Frameworkﬂ promulgated by the Committee of Sponsoring 

Organizations of the Treadway Commission, commonly referred to as the ﬁCOSOﬂ criteria.  Based on this evaluation under 

the COSO criteria, management 
concluded that the internal co
ntrol over financial reporting wa
s effective as of December 31, 
2012.   
As of the end of the period covered by this report, the management of the Company, under the supervision and with the 
participation of the Company™s Chief Executive Officer and 
Chief Financial Officer, carried out an evaluation of the 
Company™s disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act.  Based on that evaluation, 
the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer conclude
d that the Company™s disclosure controls and procedures are 
effective.   
There was no change in the Company™s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of 
2012 that has materially affected or is likely to materially 
affect, the Company™s internal cont
rol over financial reporting.  
 The effectiveness of the Company™
s internal control over financial reporting, as of December 31, 2012, has been audited by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independe
nt registered public accounting firm, 
as stated in their accompanying report, 
which expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company™s internal control over financial reporting as of 

December 31, 2012.   
  79 
  ITEM 8.  FINANCIA
L STATEMENTS AND SU
PPLEMENTARY DATA 
Report of Independent Regi
stered Public Accounting Firm 
 To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of BB&T Corporation:  
In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, 
comprehensive income, changes in shareholde
rs™ equity and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial 
position of BB&T Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 
31, 2012 and 2011, and the results of their operations and 
their cash flows for each of the three year
s in the period ended December 31, 2012 
in conformity with accounting principles 
generally accepted in the United States of America.  Also in 
our opinion, the Comp
any maintained, in a
ll material respects, 
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in Internal ControlŠ
Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  The 
Company™s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial 

reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of intern
al control over financial reporting, included in the accompanyin
g Management™s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Repo
rting.  Our responsibility is to express opinions on these 
financial statements and on the Company™s 
internal control over financial reportin
g based on our integrated audits.  We 
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial 
statements are free of material misstatemen
t and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in 
all material respects.  Our audits of the financial statements 
included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the 
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made 

by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  Our audit of internal control over financial 

reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal contro
l over financial reporting, asse
ssing the risk that a material 
weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed 

risk.  Our audits also included performing such other proced
ures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.  We 
believe that our audits provide a r
easonable basis for our opinions.   
A company™s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial 
statements for external purposes in accordance with general
ly accepted accounting principles.  A co
mpany™s internal control over financial repo
rting includes those policies and procedures 
that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasona
ble detail, accurately and fairly
 reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the company; 
(ii) provide reasonab
le assurance that transactions 
are recorded as necessary to 
permit preparation of financial statements
 in accordance with generally accepted acc
ounting principles, an
d that receipts and 
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the 
company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding preven
tion or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company™s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   
Because of its inherent limitations, intern
al control over financial reporting may not
 prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, 
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods 
are subject to the risk that co
ntrols may become inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that
 the degree of compliance 
with the policies or proce
dures may deteriorate.   
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  

Charlotte, North Carolina  
February 28, 2013 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of
 these consolidated financial statements.  
 80 
 BB&T CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
December 31, 2
012 and 2011 
(Dollars in millions, except per sh
are data, shares in thousands) 
     2012
 2011 
Assets 
     Cash and due from banks  
$  1,972 
$ 1,562 
 Interest-bearing deposits with banks  
  1,659 
  2,646 
 Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements or similar  
      arrangements  
  122 
  136 
 Segregated cash due from banks  
  36 
  20 
 Trading securities at fair value  
  497 
  534 
 Securities available for sale at fair value 
($1,591 and $1,577 covered by FDIC loss 
      share at December 31, 2012
 and 2011, respectively) 
  25,137 
  22,313 
 Securities held to maturity (fair value of
 $13,848 and $14,098 
at December 31, 2012 
       and 2011, respectively) 
  13,594 
  14,094 
 LHFS at fair value 
  3,761 
  3,736 
 Loans and leases ($3,294 and $4,867 covere
d by FDIC loss share at December 31, 
      2012 and 2011, respectively) 
  114,603 
  107,469 
 ALLL 
  (2,018)
  (2,256)
  Loans and leases, net of ALLL 
  112,585 
  105,213 
 FDIC loss share receivable  
  479 
  1,100 
 Premises and equipment  
  1,888 
  1,855 
 Goodwill  
  6,804 
  6,078 
 Core deposit and other intangible assets  
  673 
  444 
 Residential MSRs at fair value  
  627 
  563 
 Other assets ($297 and $415 of foreclosed property and other assets covered by FDIC 
      loss share at December 31, 20
12 and 2011, respectively) 
  14,038 
  14,285 
   Total assets  
$  183,872 
$ 174,579 
Liabilities and Shareholders™ Equity
      Deposits: 
      Noninteres
t-bearing deposits  
$  32,452 
$ 25,684 
  Interest-bearing deposits 
  100,623 
  99,255 
   Total deposits  
  133,075 
  124,939 
 Federal funds purchased, securities sold under
 repurchase agreements and short-term  
      borrowed funds  
  2,864 
  3,566 
 Long-term debt  
  19,114 
  21,803 
 Accounts payable and other liabilities  
  7,596 
  6,791 
   Total liabilities  
  162,649 
  157,099 
 Commitments and contingencies (Note 15) 
     Shareholders™ equity: 
      Preferred stock, $5 par, liquidation preference of $25,000 per share 
  2,116 
  Š   Common stock, $5 par  
  3,499 
  3,486 
  Additional paid-in capital  
  5,973 
  5,873 
  Retained earnings  
  10,129 
  8,772 
  AOCI, net of deferred income taxes 
  (559)
  (713)
  Noncontrolling interests 
  65 
  62 
   Total shareholders™ equity  
  21,223 
  17,480 
   Total liabilities and shareholders™ equity  
$  183,872 
$ 174,579 
 Common shares outstanding  
  699,728 
  697,143 
 Common shares authorized  
  2,000,000 
  2,000,000 
 Preferred shares outstanding 
  87 
  Š  Preferred shares authorized  
  5,000 
  5,000 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of
 these consolidated financial statements.  
 81 
 BB&T CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEM
ENTS OF INCOME  
Years Ended December 31
, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
(Dollars in millions, except per share data, shares in thousands)  
       2012    2011  2010  Interest Income 
        Interest and fees on loans and leases  
$ 5,980  $  6,119 $ 6,080  Interest and dividends on securities  
  907 
   747 
  1,019  Interest on other earning assets  
  30 
   19 
  16 
   Total interest income  
  6,917    6,885   7,115 Interest Expense
         Interest on deposits  
  429 
   610 
  917 
 Interest on federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase  
         agreements and short-term borrowed funds  
  7    11 
  22 
 Interest on long-term debt  
  624 
   757 
  856 
   Total interest expense  
  1,060    1,378   1,795 Net Interest Income 
   5,857    5,507   5,320  Provision for credit losses  
  1,057    1,190   2,638 Net Interest Income After Provision for Credit Losses 
  4,800    4,317   2,682 Noninterest Income
         Insurance income 
  1,359    1,044   1,041  Mortgage banking income 
  840 
   436 
  521 
 Service charges on deposits 
  566 
   563 
  618 
 Investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions 
  365 
   333 
  352 
 Bankcard fees and merchant discounts 
  236 
   204 
  177 
 Checkcard fees 
  185 
   271 
  274 
 Trust and investment advisory revenues 
  184 
   173 
  159 
 Income from bank-owned life insurance 
  116 
   122 
  123 
 FDIC loss share income, net 
  (318)   (289)  (116) Other income 
  299 
   194 
  254 
 Securities gains (losses), net 
          Realized gains (losses), net  
  (3)   174 
  585 
   OTTI charges 
  (5)   (22)  (117)   Non-credit portion recognized in OCI 
  (4)   (90)  86 
     Total securities gains (losses), net  
  (12)   62 
  554 
   Total noninterest income  
  3,820    3,113   3,957 Noninterest Expense
         Personnel expense 
  3,125    2,727   2,616  Occupancy and equipment expense 
  650 
   616 
  608 
 Loan-related expense 
  283 
   227 
  201 
 Foreclosed property expense 
  266 
   802 
  747 
 Regulatory charges 
  159 
   212 
  211 
 Professional services   156 
   174 
  170 
 Software expense 
  138 
   118 
  117 
 Amortization of intangibles   110 
   99 
  122 
 Merger-related and restructuring charges, net 
  68 
   16 
  69 
 Other expense 
  873 
   811 
  809 
   Total noninterest expense  
  5,828    5,802   5,670 Earnings
         Income before income taxes  
  2,792    1,628   969 
 Provision for income taxes  
  764 
   296 
  115 
   Net income 
   2,028    1,332   854 
 Noncontrolling interests  
  49 
   43 
  38 
 Dividends on preferred stock 
  63 
        Net income available to common shareholders 
 $ 1,916  $  1,289 $ 816 
EPS           Basic  
$ 2.74  $  1.85 $ 1.18    Diluted  
$ 2.70  $  1.83 $ 1.16  Cash dividends declared  
$ 0.80  $  0.65 $ 0.60 Weighted Average Shares Outstanding
           Basic  
  698,739 
   696,532 
  692,489 
   Diluted  
  708,877 
   705,168 
  701,039 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of
 these consolidated financial statements.  
 82 
 BB&T CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  
Years Ended December 31
, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
(Dollars in millions)  
       2012    2011  2010  Net Income  
$ 2,028  $  1,332 $ 854 
OCI, Net of Tax:
         Unrealized net holding gains (losses) 
arising during the pe
riod on securities  
         available for sale 
  327 
   437 
  415 
 Reclassification adjustment for (gains) lo
sses on securities available for sale  
         included in net income 
  8    (38)  (347) Change in amounts attributable to the FDIC under loss share agreements 
  (61)   (19)  (157) Change in unrecognized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges 
  (14)   (112)  (154) Change in pension and postretirement liability 
  (111)   (235)  (90) Other, net 
  5    1   3   Total OCI 
  154 
   34 
  (330)  Total comprehensive income 
$ 2,182  $  1,366 $ 524 
Income Tax Effect of Items Included in OCI:
        Unrealized net holding gains (losses) 
arising during the pe
riod on securities  
         available for sale 
$ 200 
 $  261 
$ 252 
 Reclassification adjustment for (gains) lo
sses on securities available for sale  
         included in net income 
  4    (24)  (207) Change in amounts attributable to the FDIC under loss share agreements 
  (38)   (11)  (94) Change in unrecognized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges 
  (9)   (67)  (94) Change in pension and postretirement liability 
  (70)   (143)  (50) Other, net 
  2    3   (2)  The accompanying notes are an integral part of
 these consolidated financial statements.  
 83 
 BB&T CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS™ EQUITY  
Years Ended December 31
, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
(Dollars in millions, except per share data, shares in thousands)  
                      Shares of 
Common 
Stock
  Preferred 
Stock
Common 
Stock
Additional 
Paid-In 
Capital
Retained 
Earnings
AOCI  Noncontrolling 
Interests
Total 
Shareholders' 
Equity
Balance, January 1, 2010 
 689,750 
 $  $ 3,449 
$ 5,620 
$ 7,539 
$ (417)
 $  50 $ 16,241 
Add (Deduct):
                   Net income  
          816      38   854  Net change in OCI 
            (330)
     (330)
 Stock transactions: 
                 In purchase acquisitions 
 57        2          2   In connection with equity awards,  
                    net of repurchases 
 1,667 
     8   24          32   In connection with dividend 
                 reinvestment plan 
 1,106 
     6   24          30   In connection with 401(k) plan 
 1,801 
     9   39          48  Cash dividends declared on common stock, 
                   $0.60 per share  
          (416)
       (416)
 Equity-based compensation expense  
        79          79  Other, net  
        (12)
  (4)     (26)
  (42)
Balance, December 31, 2010
  694,381 
 $  $ 3,472 
$ 5,776 
$ 7,935 
$ (747)
 $  62 $ 16,498 
Add (Deduct):
                   Net income  
          1,289 
     43   1,332 
 Net change in OCI 
            34      34  Stock transactions: 
                 In purchase acquisitions 
 26        1          1   In connection with equity awards 
 1,963 
     10   (9)         1   Shares repurchased in connection 
                    equity awards 
 (651)
     (3)  (15)
         (18)
  In connection with dividend  
                 reinvestment plan 
 586      3   13          16   In connection with 401(k) plan 
 838      4   19          23  Cash dividends declared on common stock, 
                   $0.65 per share  
          (453)
       (453)
 Equity-based compensation expense  
        98          98  Other, net  
        (10)
  1      (43)
  (52)
Balance, December 31, 2011
  697,143 
 $  $ 3,486 
$ 5,873 
$ 8,772 
$ (713)
 $  62 $ 17,480 
Add (Deduct):
                   Net income  
          1,979 
     49   2,028 
 Net change in OCI 
            154      154  Stock transactions: 
                   In purchase acquisitions 
 28        1          1   In connection with equity awards 
 3,147 
     16   17          33   Shares repurchased in connection 
                    with equity awards 
 (590)
     (3)  (15)
         (18)
  In connection with preferred stock 
                 offerings 
    2,116
             2,116 
 Cash dividends declared on common stock,  
                   $0.80 per share  
          (559)
       (559)
 Cash dividends declared on preferred stock 
          (63)
       (63)
 Equity-based compensation expense  
        97          97  Other, net  
               (46)
  (46)
Balance, December 31, 2012
  699,728 
 $  2,116
$ 3,499 
$ 5,973 
$ 10,129 
$ (559)
 $  65 $ 21,223 
  The accompanying notes are an integral part of
 these consolidated financial statements.  
 84 
 BB&T CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  
Years Ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
(Dollars in millions)  
       2012  2011 2010 Cash Flows From Operating Activities: 
        Net income  
$ 2,028 
 $  1,332 
$ 854  Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash from operating activities: 
          Provision for credit losses  
  1,057 
   1,190 
  2,638 
   Depreciation  
  281    264   260    Amortization of intangibles  
  110    99   122    Equity-based compensation  
  97    98   79    (Gain) loss on securities, net  
  12    (62)  (554)   Net write-downs/losses on foreclosed property 
  168    655   576    Net change in operating assets and liabilities: 
             Segregated cash due from banks  
  (16)   289   (39)      LHFS 
  (433)   (583) (620)      FDIC loss share receivable 
  590    869   921       Other assets  
  (381)   (55)  (2,006)      Accounts payable and other liabilities  
  346    572   689    Other, net  
  (161)   (103)  (22)      Net cash from operating activities  
  3,698 
   4,565 
  2,898 
Cash Flows From Investing Activities:
         Proceeds from sales of securities available for sale  
  303    4,006 
  31,334 
 Proceeds from maturities, calls and paydowns of securities available for sale  
  4,396 
   3,271 
  6,049 
 Purchases of securities available for sale  
  (7,026)   (13,926)  (26,598) Proceeds from maturities, calls and paydowns of securities held to maturity 
  5,536 
   1,828 
   Purchases of securities held to maturity 
  (5,055)   (7,578)   Originations and purchases of loans a
nd leases, net of principal collected  
  (6,651)   (6,240)  (4,594) Net cash from divestitures  
      (832) Net cash from business combinations 
  675    (86) (7) Purchases of premises and equipment  
  (145)   (224)  (428) Proceeds from sales of foreclosed property or other real estate held for sale  
  799    1,017 
  967  Other, net  
  83    106   88    Net cash from investing activities  
  (7,085)   (17,826)  5,979 
Cash Flows From Financing Activities:
         Net change in deposits  
  4,676 
   17,799 
  (6,843) Net change in federal funds purchased, s
ecurities sold under repur
chase agreements  
         and short-term borrowed funds  
  (702)   (2,107)  (2,434) Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt  
  2,327 
   2,010 
  500  Repayment of long-term debt  
  (5,112)   (2,190)  (336) Net proceeds from common stock issued  
  15    22   110  Net proceeds from preferred stock issued  
  2,116 
      Cash dividends paid on common stock  
  (531)   (446)  (415) Cash dividends paid on preferred stock  
  (33)      Other, net  
  40    132   277    Net cash from financing activities  
  2,796 
   15,220 
  (9,141)Net Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents 
   (591)   1,959 
  (264)Cash and Cash Equivalents 
at Beginning of Period 
  4,344 
   2,385 
  2,649 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Period 
 $ 3,753 
 $  4,344 
$ 2,385 
Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information:
         Cash paid (received) during the period for: 
          Interest  $ 1,120 
 $  1,404 
$ 1,868 
   Income taxes  
  347    (82)  972  Noncash investing and fi
nancing activities: 
          Transfer of securities available for sale to securities held to maturity 
  1    8,341 
     Transfers of loans to foreclosed property  
  473    1,083 
  1,521 
   Transfers of loans held for investment to LHFS 
     226   1,604 
  85 
 NOTE 1.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
 General 
See the Glossary of Defined Terms at the beginning of this Report for terms used throughout the consolidated financial 
statements and related notes of this Form 10-K. 
BB&T is a financial holding company organized under the laws 
of North Carolina.  BB&T conducts operations through its 
principal bank subsidiary, Branch Bank and its nonbank subsidiaries. 
The accounting and reporting policies of
 BB&T and its subsidiaries are in acco
rdance with GAAP.  Additionally, where 
applicable, the policies conform to the accounting and reporting 
guidelines prescribed by bank regulatory authorities.  The 
following is a summary of BB&T™s more significant accounting policies. 
Nature of Operations 
Branch Bank has offices in North Carolina, Virginia, Florida, Georgia, Maryland, South Carolina, West Virginia, Kentucky, 
Alabama, Tennessee, Texas, Washington 
D.C and Indiana.  Branch Bank provides a wide range of banking services to 
individuals and businesses, and offers a variety of loans to businesses and consumers.  Such loans are made primarily to 
individuals residing in the market areas described above or to businesses located within BB&T™s geographic footprint.  
Branch Bank also markets a wide range of deposit services 
to individuals, businesses and public entities.  Branch Bank 
offers, either directly, or through its subsidiaries, lease financing to businesses and municipal governments; factoring; 
discount brokerage services, annuities and mutual funds; life insu
rance, property and casualty insurance, health insurance and 
commercial general liability insurance on an agency basis and 
through a wholesale insurance brokerage operation; insurance 
premium financing; permanent financing arrangements for CRE; loan servicing for third-party investors; direct consumer 

finance loans to individuals; trust and retirement services, compre
hensive wealth advisory servi
ces and association services.  
BB&T FSB and the direct nonbank subsidiaries of BB&T provide a variety of financial services including credit card 

lending, automobile financing, equipment financing, full-servi
ce securities brokerage, asset management and capital markets 
services. 
Principles of Consolidation 
The consolidated financial statements of BB&T include the 
accounts of BB&T Corporation and those subsidiaries that are 
majority owned by BB&T and over which BB&T exercises control.  In consolidation, all significant intercompany accounts 
and transactions are eliminated.  The resu
lts of operations of companies or assets acquired are included only from the dates of
 acquisition.  All material wholly-owned and majority-owned su
bsidiaries are consolidated unless GAAP requires otherwise. 
BB&T holds investments in certain legal entities that are consider
ed VIEs.  VIEs are legal entities in which equity investors 
do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to independently finance its activities, or as a group, the holders of the
 equity investment at risk lack the power through voting or similar rights to direct the activities of the entity that most 
significantly impact its economic 
performance, or do not have the obligation to ab
sorb the expected losses of the entity or the
 right to receive expected residu
al returns of the entity.  Consolidation of a VI
E is required if a repo
rting entity is the prim
ary beneficiary of the VIE. 
BB&T evaluates its investments in VIEs to determine if BB&T is
 the primary beneficiary of the VIE.  This evaluation gives 
appropriate consideration to the design of the entity and the variability that the entity was designed to pass along, the relat
ive 
power of each of the parties to the VIE, 
and to BB&T™s relative obligation to absorb 
losses or receive residual returns of the 
entity, in relation to such obligations and rights held by othe
r parties to the VIE.  BB&T has variable interests in certain 
entities that were not required to be consolidated, including 
affordable housing partnership interests, historic tax credit 
partnerships, and other partnership interests.  Refer to Note
 15 for additional disclosures regarding BB&T™s significant VIEs. 
BB&T accounts for unconsolidated partnership and similar invest
ments using the equity method 
of accounting.  In addition 
to affordable housing partnerships, which represent the majority of unconsolidated investments in VIEs, BB&T also has 
investments in, and future funding commitments to, private equity investments.   
BB&T has investments in certain entities for which BB&T does not have a controlling interest.  For these investments, the 
Company records its portion of income or loss in other noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  BB&T 
periodically evaluates these investments for impairment. 
  86 
 Reclassifications In certain instances, amounts reported in prior years™ consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to conform to 
the current year presentation.  Such reclassifications had no effect on previously reported cash flows, shareholders™ equity or
 net income. 
Use of Estimates in the Prepar
ation of Financial Statements 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and di
sclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date o
f the 
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.  Actual results could 

differ from those estimates.  Material estimates that are 
particularly susceptible to significant change include the 
determination of the ACL, determination of fair value for fina
ncial instruments, valuation of goodwill, intangible assets and 
other purchase accounting related 
adjustments, benefit plan obligations and ex
penses, and tax assets, liabilities and expense. 
Business Combinations 
BB&T accounts for all business combinations using the acquisition method of accounting.  Under this method of accounting, 
the accounts of an acquired entity
 are included with the acquirer™s accounts as 
of the date of acquisition with any excess of 
purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired 
(including identifiable intangibles) capitalized as goodwill. 
To consummate an acquisition, BB&T typically issues common stock and/or pays cash, depending on the terms of the 

acquisition agreement.  The value of common 
shares issued is determined based upon the market price of the stock as of the 
closing of the acquisition. 
In connection with mergers and acquisitions, BB&T may issue opti
ons to purchase shares of its common stock in exchange 
for options to purchase shares of the acquired entities that are 
outstanding at the time the merger is completed.  To the exten
t vested, the options are considered to be part of the purchase pr
ice paid.  There is no change 
in the aggregate intrinsic value 
of 
the options issued compared to the intrinsic value of the options
 held immediately before the exchange, nor does the ratio of 
the exercise price per option to th
e market value per share change. 
Cash and Cash Equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash and due from banks, interest-bearing deposits with banks, Federal funds sold and 
securities purchased under resale agreements or similar arrange
ments.  Cash and cash equivalents have maturities of three 
months or less.  Accordingly, the carrying amount of such instruments is considered a reasonable estimate of fair value. 
Securities BB&T classifies marketable investment securities as held to maturity, available for sale or trading.  Interest income and 
dividends on securities are recognized in interest income on an 
accrual basis.  Premiums and discounts on debt securities are 
amortized as an adjustment to interest income using the interest method. 
Debt securities are classified as held to maturity where 
BB&T has both the intent and ability to hold the securities to 
maturity.  These securities are 
reported at amortized cost. 
Debt securities, which may be sold to meet liquidity needs ar
ising from unanticipated deposit and loan fluctuations, changes 
in regulatory capital requirements, or unforeseen changes in ma
rket conditions, are classified as
 available for sale.  Securiti
es available for sale are reported at estimated fair value, with 
unrealized gains and losses reported in AOCI, net of deferred 
income taxes, in the shareholders™ equity section of the Conso
lidated Balance Sheets.  Gains or losses realized from the sale 
of securities available for sale are determined by speci
fic identification and are included in noninterest income. 
BB&T evaluates each held to maturity and available for sale 
security in a loss position fo
r OTTI.  BB&T considers such 
factors as the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been below amortized cost, long term expectations 
and recent experience regarding 
principal and interest payments, BB&T™s intent to sell and whether it is more likely than not 
that the Company would be required to sell those securities before the anticipated recovery of the amortized cost basis.  The 
credit component of an OTTI loss is re
cognized in earnings and the non-credit 
component is recogn
ized in AOCI in 
situations where BB&T does not intend to sell the security and 
it is more-likely-than-not that
 BB&T will not be required to 
sell the security prior to recovery. 
Trading account securities, which include both debt and equity secu
rities, are reported at fair value.  Unrealized market value
 adjustments, fees, and realized gains or
 losses from trading account activities (det
ermined by specific identification) are 
  87 
 included in noninterest income.  Interest income on trading account securities is included in interest and dividends from other
 earning assets. 
LHFS 
BB&T accounts for new originations of prime residential mortgage and commercial mortgage LHFS at fair value.  BB&T 
accounts for the derivatives used to economi
cally hedge the LHFS at fair value.  Th
e value for LHFS carried at fair value is 
primarily based on quoted market prices for securities collateralized
 by similar types of loans.  Direct loan origination fees 
and costs related to LHFS and 
accounted for at fair value are not capitalized
, but rather are recorded as mortgage banking 
income in the case of the direct loan origination fees and primarily personnel expense in the case of the direct loan originati
on costs.  Gains and losses on sales of mortgage loans are include
d in mortgage banking income.  Gains and losses on sales of 
commercial LHFS are included in other noninterest income. 
Loans and Leases 
The Company™s accounting methods for loans 
differ depending on whether the loans are originated or acquired, and if 
acquired,  whether or not the acquired loans reflect credit deteri
oration since the date of origination such that it is probabl
e at the date of acquisition that BB&T will be unable 
to collect all contractually required payments. 
Originated Loans and Leases
 Loans and leases that management has the intent and ability to hold for the foreseeable future are reported at their outstandin
g principal balances net of any unearned income, charge-offs, and unamortized fees and costs.  The net amount of 
nonrefundable loan origination f
ees and certain direct costs associated with th
e lending process are deferred and amortized to 
interest income over the contractual lives of the loans using methods that approximate the interest method. 
BB&T classifies all loans and leases past due when the paymen
t of principal and interest based upon contractual terms is 
greater than 30 days delinquent.  When comm
ercial loans are placed on nonaccrual status
 as described below, a charge-off is 
recorded, as applicable, to decrease the car
rying value of such loans to the estimated recoverable amount.  Consumer loans 
are subject to mandatory charge-off at a specified delinquency date consistent with regulatory guidelines.  As such, consumer 
loans are subject to collateral va
luation and charge-off, as applicable, when th
ey are moved to nonaccrual status as described 
below. 
Purchased Loans
 Purchased loans are recorded at their fair
 value at the acquisition date.  Credit discounts are included in the determination o
f fair value; therefore, an allowance for loan lo
sses is not recorded at the acquisition date.   
Acquired loans are evaluated upon acquisition and classified 
as either purchased impaired 
or purchased non-impaired.  
Purchased impaired loans reflect credit deterioration since orig
ination such that it is probable at acquisition that BB&T will 
be unable to collect all contractually required payments.  For purchased impaired loans, expected cash flows at the 
acquisition date in excess of the fair value of loans are record
ed as interest income over the life of the loans using a level 
yield method if the timing and amount of th
e future cash flows is reasonably estimabl
e.  Subsequent to the acquisition date, 
increases in cash flows over those expected
 at the acquisition date are recognized prospectively as interest income.  Decreases
 in expected cash flows after the acquisition 
date are recognized by recording an a
llowance for loan losses.  For purchased 
non-impaired loans, the difference between 
the fair value and unpaid principal balance 
of the loan at the acquisition date is 
amortized or accreted to interest income over the estimated life of the loans using a method that approximates the interest 
method. 
Based on the characteristics of loans acqu
ired in a FDIC-assisted transaction and 
the impact of associated loss sharing 
arrangements, BB&T determined that it was appropriate to apply the expected cash flows approach described above to all 
loans acquired in such transactions. 
TDRs Modifications to a borrower™s debt agreement are considered TD
Rs if a concession is granted for economic or legal reasons 
related to a borrower™s financial difficulties that otherwise wo
uld not be considered.  TDRs are undertaken in order to 
improve the likelihood of recovery on the loan and may take the form of modifications made with the stated interest rate 
lower than the current market rate for new debt with similar risk, other modifications to the structure of the loan that fall 
outside of normal underwriting policies and 
procedures, or in certain limited circ
umstances forgiveness of principal or 
interest.  Modifications of covered loans that are part of a p
ool accounted for as a single asset are not considered TDRs.  
TDRs can involve loans remaining on nonacc
rual, moving to nonaccrual
, or continuing on accruing
 status, depending on the 
  88 
 individual facts and circumstances of the bor
rower.  In circumstances where the TDR 
involves charging off a portion of the 
loan balance, BB&T typically classi
fies these TDRs as nonaccrual.   
In connection with commerci
al TDRs, the decision to maintain a loan that has 
been restructured on accrual status is based on 
a current, well documented credit evaluation of the borrower™s 
financial condition and prospects for repayment under the 
modified terms.  This evaluation includes consideration of th
e borrower™s current capacity to
 pay, which among other things 
may include a review of the borrower™s current financial statem
ents, an analysis of global cash flow sufficient to pay all debt
 obligations, and an evaluation of secondary sources of payment from the client and any guarantors.  This evaluation also 
includes an evaluation of the borrower™s current willingness to pa
y, which may include a review of past payment history, an 
evaluation of the borrower™s w
illingness to provide information on a timely basi
s, and consideration of offers from the 
borrower to provide additional collateral or guarantor support.  The credit evaluation also reflects consideration of the 

borrower™s future capacity and willingness to pay, which may in
clude evaluation of cash flow 
projections, consideration of 
the adequacy of collateral to cover all principal and intere
st and trends indicating improving profitability and collectability
 of receivables. 
The evaluation of mortgage and consumer loans includes an evaluation of the client™s debt to income ratio, credit report, 
property value, loan vintage, and certain other client-specifi
c factors that impact their ability to make timely principal and 
interest payments on the loan. 
Nonaccrual TDRs may be returned to accrual status based on
 a current, well-documented credit evaluation of the borrower™s 
financial condition and prospects for repayment under the modified terms.  This evaluation must include consideration of the 
borrower™s sustained historical repayment performance for a reasonable period (generally a minimum of six months) prior to 
the date on which the loan is returned to accrual status.  
Sustained historical repayment performance for a reasonable time 
prior to the TDR may be taken into account.  In connection with
 retail TDRs, a NPL will be returned to accruing status when 
current as to principal and interest an
d upon a sustained historical repayment performance (generally a minimum of six 
months). 
NPAs 
NPAs include NPLs and foreclosed property. 
 Foreclosed property consists of real es
tate and other assets acquired as a result 
of customers™ loan defaults.  BB&T™s polic
ies for placing loans on nonaccrual status
 conform to guidelines prescribed by 
bank regulatory authorities.  The 
majority of commercial loans and leases are pl
aced on nonaccrual status when it is probable 
that principal or interest is not fully collectible, or generally
 when principal or interest becomes 90 days past due, whicheve
r occurs first.  Other lending subsidiari
es™ loans, which includes both consumer
 and commercial loans, are placed on 
nonaccrual status generally when principal and interest become
s 90 days past due.  Direct retail, mortgage and sales finance 
loans are placed on nonaccrual status at vary
ing intervals, based on the type of prod
uct, generally when principal and interest
 becomes between 90 days and 180 days past due.  Revolving 
credit loans are not placed on no
naccrual but are charged off 
after they become 150 days past due, with unpaid fees and finance charges reversed against interest income.  Covered loans 
are considered to be performing due to
 the application of the accretion method. 
Certain loans past due 90 days or more may remain on accrual st
atus if management determines that it does not have concern 
over the collectibility of principal and interest.  Generally, 
when loans are placed on nonaccrual status, accrued interest 
receivable is reversed against interest income in the current pe
riod.  Interest payments received thereafter are applied as a 
reduction to the remaining principal balance as long as concern ex
ists as to the ultimate collection of the principal.  Loans a
nd 
leases are generally removed from nonaccrual
 status when they become current as to
 both principal and interest and concern 
no longer exists as to the collectability of principal and interest. 
Assets acquired as a result of foreclosure 
are subsequently carried at th
e lower of cost or net realizable value.  Net realizab
le value equals fair value less estimated selling costs.  Any excess 
of cost over net realizable value at the time of foreclosure 
is charged to the ALLL.  NPAs are subject to 
periodic revaluations of the collateral underlying impaired loans and foreclosed 
real estate.  The periodic revaluations are generally based on the appraised value of the property and may include additional 
liquidity adjustments based upon the expected retention period.  BB&T™s policies require that valuations be updated at least 

annually and that upon foreclosure, the valuation must not be more than six months old, otherwise an updated appraisal is 
required.  Routine maintenance costs, other costs of ownership, subsequent declines in market value and net losses on 
disposal are included in foreclosed property expense. 
ACL The ACL comprises the ALLL and the RUFC.  The ACL represents
 management™s best estimate of probable credit losses 
inherent in the loan and lease portfolios and off-balance sheet lending commitments at the balance sheet date.  The Company 
determines the ACL based on an ongoing evaluation.  This ev
aluation is inherently subjectiv
e because it requires material 
  89 
 estimates, including the amounts and timing 
of cash flows expected to be received on
 impaired loans.  Those estimates are 
susceptible to significant change.  Changes to the ACL are made by charges to the provision for credit losses, which is 
reflected in the Consolidated Statements 
of Income.  Loans or lease balances deem
ed to be uncollectib
le are charged off 
against the ALLL.  Recoveries of amounts previously charged off are credited to the ALLL.  The methodology used to 
determine the RUFC is inherently similar to that used to determine the collectively evaluated component of the ALLL, 
adjusted for factors specific to binding commitments, including the probability of funding and exposure at default.  While 

management uses the best information available to establish 
the ACL, future adjustments may be necessary if economic 
conditions differ substantially from the assumptions used in 
computing the allowance or, if required by regulators, based 
upon information available to them at the time of their examinations. 
Accounting standards require the presenta
tion of certain disclosure information at the portfolio segment level, which 
represents the level at which an entity develops and documents a systematic methodology to determine its ACL.  BB&T 
concluded that its loan and lease portfolio comprises three portfolio segments; commercial, retail and covered.  The 
commercial portfolio segment includes CRE, 
commercial and industrial and other loans originated by certain other lending 
subsidiaries, and was identified based on th
e risk-based approach used to estimate 
the ALLL for the vast majority of these 
loans.  The retail portfolio segment includes direct retail lending, revolving credit, mortgage, sales finance and other loans 

originated by certain retail-oriented subsidiaries, and was 
identified based on the delinquency-based approach used to 
estimate the allowance for these loans.  The covered portfo
lio segment was identified based on the expected cash flows 
approach used to estimate the allowance related to
 loans acquired subsequent to December 31, 2008. 
A portion of BB&T™s ALLL is not allocated
 to any specific category of
 loans.  This unallocated portion of the allowance 
reflects management™s best estimate of the elements of imprecision and estimation risk inherent in the calculation of the 

overall allowance.  Due to the subjectivity involved in determin
ing the overall allowance, including the unallocated portion, 
the portion considered unallocated may fluctuate from period to period based on management™s evaluation of the factors 
affecting the assumptions used in calculating the allowance,
 including historical loss 
experience, current economic 
conditions, industry or borrower concentrations and the status of merged institutions. 
The entire amount of the ACL is available to absorb losses on any loan category or lending-related commitment. 
The following provides a description of BB&T™s accounting po
licies and methodologies related to each of its portfolio 
segments: 
Commercial The vast majority of loans in the commercial lending portfolio 
are assigned risk grades based 
on an assessment of conditions 
that affect the borrower™s ability to meet contractual obligati
ons under the loan agreement.  This process includes reviewing 
borrowers™ financial information, historical payment experience, credit documentation, public information, and other 
information specific to each borrower.  Risk
 grades are reviewed on an annual basi
s for all credit relationships with total 
credit exposure of $1 million or more, or at any point management becomes aware of information affecting the borrowers™ 

ability to fulfill their obligations.  For commercial clients with total credit exposure less than $1 million, BB&T has 
developed an automated loan review system to identify and proactively manage accounts with a higher risk of loss.  The 
ﬁscoreﬂ produced by this automated system is updated monthly. 
On a quarterly basis, BB&T reviews all commercial lending relationships with outstanding debt of $5 million or more that 
have been classified as substandard or doubtful.  While this 
review is largely focused on the borrower™s ability to repay the 
loan, BB&T also considers the capacity and 
willingness of a loan™s guarantors to supp
ort the debt service on the loan as a 
secondary source of repayment.  When a 
guarantor exhibits the documented cap
acity and willingness to support the loan, 
BB&T may consider extending the loan matur
ity and/or temporarily deferring principal 
payments if the ultimate collection of 
both principal and interest is not in question.  In these ca
ses, BB&T may not deem the loan to be impaired due to the 
documented capacity and willingness of the guarantor to repay the loan.  Loans are considered impaired when the borrower 

(or guarantor in certain 
circumstances) does not have the cash flow capacity
 or willingness to service the debt according to 
contractual terms, or it does not appear reasonable to assu
me that the borrower will continue to pay according to the 
contractual agreement.  BB&T establishes a specific reserve fo
r each loan that has been deemed impaired based on the 
criteria outlined above.  The amount of the reserve is based on
 the present value of expected
 cash flows discounted at the 
loan™s effective interest rate, and/or the value of collateral. 
 BB&T has also established a review process related to TDRs and
 other impaired loans that are in commercial lending relationships with outstanding debt of less than $5 million at the balance 

sheet date.  In connection with this process, BB&T establishes 
reserves related to these loans that are calculated using an 
expected cash flow approach.  These discounted cash flow analys
es incorporate adjustments to fu
ture cash flows that reflect 
management™s best estimate of the default risk related to TDRs based on a combination of historical experience and 
management judgment. 
  90 
 BB&T also maintains reserves for collective impairment that refl
ect an estimate of losses related to non-impaired commercial 
loans as of the balance sheet date.  Embedded loss estimates 
for BB&T™s commercial loan portfolio are based on estimated 
migration rates, which are estimated based on historical expe
rience, and current risk mix as indicated by the risk grading 
process described above.  Embedded loss estimates may be adjusted to reflect current economic conditions and current 
portfolio trends including credit quality, concentrations, ag
ing of the portfolio, and significant policy and underwriting 
changes. 
Retail
 The majority of the ALLL related to the retail lending portfolio is calculated on a collective basis using a delinquency-based 
approach.  Embedded loss estimates for BB&T™s retail lending 
portfolio are based on estima
ted migration rates that are 
developed based on historical experience, and current risk mix 
as indicated by prevailing delinquency rates.  These estimates 
may be adjusted to reflect current economic conditions and curr
ent portfolio trends.  The remaining portion of the allowance 
related to the retail lending portfolio relates to loans that have been deemed impaired based on their classification as a TDR 
at the balance sheet date.  BB&T establishes 
specific reserves related to these TDRs using an expected cash flow approach.  The 
allowance for retail TDRs is based on discounted cash flow anal
yses that incorporate adjustme
nts to future cash flows that 
reflect management™s best estimate of the default risk related to TDRs based on a combination of historical experience and 
management judgment. 
Acquired Loans
 Purchased impaired loans and all loans acq
uired in an FDIC-assisted transaction ar
e typically aggregated into loan pools 
based upon common risk characteristics.  The 
ALLL for each loan pool is based on an
 analysis that is performed each period 
to estimate the expected cash flows.  To 
the extent that the expected cash flows of
 a loan pool have decreased since the 
acquisition date, BB&T establishes an allowance for loan losses.
  For non-FDIC assisted pu
rchased non-impaired loans, 
BB&T uses an approach consistent with that described above for originated loans and leases. 
Covered Assets and Related 
FDIC Loss Share Receivable 
Assets subject to loss sharing agreements
 with the FDIC are labeled ﬁcoveredﬂ and 
include certain loans, securities and other 
assets. The FDIC™s obligation to reimburse Branch Bank for losses with 
respect to covered assets begins with the first dollar of loss 
incurred.  The terms of the loss sharing agreement with respect 
to certain non-agency RMBS provides that Branch Bank will 
be reimbursed by the FDIC for 95% of any and all losses.  All other covered assets are subject to a stated threshold of $5 
billion that provides for the FDIC to reimburse Branch Bank for 
(1) 80% of losses incurred up to $5 billion and (2) 95% of 
losses in excess of $5 billion.  Gains and recoveries on covere
d assets will offset losses, or be paid to the FDIC, at the 
applicable loss share percentage at the tim
e of recovery.  The loss sharing agreement 
applicable to single family residential 
mortgage loans expires in 2019, and provides for FDIC loss sharing and Branch Bank reimbursement to the FDIC.  The loss 

sharing agreement applicable to commercial loans and other covered assets expires in 2014, however, Branch Bank must 

reimburse the FDIC for realized gains and recoveries through August 2017.  At the conclusion of the loss share period should 
actual aggregate losses, excluding securities, be less than an
 amount determined in accordan
ce with these agreements, BB&T 
will pay the FDIC a portio
n of the difference. 
The income statement effect of
 the changes in the FDIC loss share receivabl
e includes the accretion due to discounting and 
changes in expected net reimbursements.  
Decreases in expected net reimbursements
, including the amounts expected to be 
paid to the FDIC as a result of the aggregate losses calculation,
 are recognized in income prosp
ectively over the term of the 
loss share agreements consistent with the approach taken to rec
ognize increases in cash flows on covered loans.  Increases in 
expected reimbursements are recognized in
 income in the same period that the ACL for the related loans is recognized. 
Premises and Equipment Premises, equipment, capital leases and leasehold improvemen
ts are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
amortization.  Land is stated at cost.  In addition, purchased software and costs of computer software developed for internal 
use are capitalized provided certain criteria are met.  Depr
eciation and amortization are computed principally using the 
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the 
related assets.  Leasehold improvements are amortized on a 
straight-line basis over the lesser of the lease terms, including 
certain renewals that were deem
ed probable at lease inception
, or the estimated useful lives of the improvements.  Capitalized leases are amortized by the same methods as premises and 

equipment over the estimated useful lives or lease terms, whiche
ver is less.  Obligations under capital leases are amortized 
using the interest method to allocate payments between principal reduction and interest expense.  Rent expense and rental 

income on operating leases is record
ed using the straight-line method 
over the appropriate lease terms. 
  91 
 Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreements 
Securities sold under repurchase agreements generally have 
maturities ranging from 1 day to 36 months.  Securities sold 
under agreements to repurchase are reflected as collaterali
zed borrowings on the Consol
idated Balance Sheets and are 
recorded based on the amount of cash received in connection w
ith the borrowing.  The terms of
 repurchase agreements may 
require BB&T to provide additional collateral if the fair value 
of the securities underlying the borrowings declines during the
 term of the agreement. 
Income Taxes 
Deferred income taxes have been provided when different acco
unting methods have been used in determining income for 
income tax purposes and for financial reporting purposes.  De
ferred tax assets
 and liabilities are recognized based on future 
tax consequences attributable to differences arising from the 
financial statement carrying values of assets and liabilities and
 their tax bases.  In the event of changes in the tax laws, de
ferred tax assets and liabilities are adjusted in the period of th
e enactment of those changes, with th
e cumulative effects included in the current year™s income tax provision. 
Derivative Financial Instruments 
A derivative is a financial instrument that derives its cash flows, and therefore its value, by reference to an underlying 
instrument, index or referenced interest ra
te.  These instruments include interest rate swaps, caps, floors, collars, financial
 forwards and futures contracts, swaptions, when-issued secu
rities, foreign exchange contracts and options written and 
purchased.  BB&T uses derivatives primarily to manage eco
nomic risk related to securities, commercial loans, MSRs and 
mortgage banking operations, long-term debt and other fund
ing sources.  BB&T also uses derivatives to facilitate 
transactions on behalf of its clients.  The fair value of deriva
tives in a gain or loss position is included in other assets or
 liabilities, respectively, on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
BB&T classifies its derivative financial instruments as either (1
) a hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value of a 
recorded asset or liability (ﬁfair value hedgeﬂ), (2) a hedge of 
an exposure to changes in the cash flows of a recognized asset
, liability or forecasted transaction (ﬁcash flow
 hedgeﬂ), (3) a hedge of a net investment
 in a subsidiary, or (4) derivatives no
t designated as hedges.  Changes in the fair value of derivatives
 not designated as hedges are 
recognized in current period 
earnings.  BB&T has master netting agreements with the derivatives dealers with which it does business, but reflects gross 
assets and liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
BB&T uses the long-haul method to assess hedge effectiveness.
  BB&T documents, both at inception and over the life of the 
hedge, at least quarterly, its analysis of 
actual and expected hedge effectiveness.  Th
is analysis includes techniques such as 
regression analysis and hypothetical derivatives to demonstrate that the hedge has been, and is expected to be, highly 
effective in off-setting corresponding changes in the fair value 
or cash flows of the hedged item.  For cash flow hedges 
involving interest rate caps and collars, this analysis also 
includes consideration of whether critical terms match, the strike
 price of the hedging option matches the specified level beyond (or within) which the entity™s exposure is being hedged, the 
hedging instrument™s inflows (outflows) at its maturity date co
mpletely offset the change in the hedged transaction™s cash 
flows for the risk being hedged and the hedging instrument can be exercised only on its contractual maturity date.  For a 
qualifying fair value hedge, changes in the value of the derivatives that have been highly effective as hedges are recognized 
in current period earnings along with the corresponding changes in the fair value of the designated hedged item attributable to
 the risk being hedged.  For a qualifying cash flow hedge, the portion of changes in the fair value of the derivatives that have
 been highly effective are recognized in OCI until the related cash 
flows from the hedged item are recognized in earnings.  For 
qualifying cash flow hedges involving interest rate caps and colla
rs, the initial fair value of the premium paid is allocated a
nd 
recognized in the same future period that th
e hedged forecasted transaction impacts earnings. 
For either fair value hedges or cash flow he
dges, ineffectiveness may be recognized in noninterest income to the extent that 
changes in the value of the derivative instruments do not perfectly offset changes in the value of the hedged items.  If the 
hedge ceases to be highly effective, BB&T discontinues hedge accounting and recognizes the changes in fair value in current 
period earnings.  If a derivative that qualifies as a fair value 
or cash flow hedge is terminated or the designation removed, t
he 
realized or then unrealized ga
in or loss is recognized into income over the life of the hedged item (fair value hedge) or perio
d in which the hedged item affects earnings (cash flow hedge).  
Immediate recognition in earnings is required upon sale or 
extinguishment of the hedged item (fair value hedge) or if it is 
probable that the hedged cash flows will not occur (cash flow 
hedge). 
Derivatives used to manage economic risk not designated 
as hedges primarily represent economic risk management 
instruments of MSRs and mortgage banking operations, with gains or losses included in mortgage banking income.  In 
connection with its mortgage banking activities, BB&T enters into loan commitments to fund residential mortgage loans at 
specified rates and for specified periods of time.  To the extent that BB&T™s interest rate lock commitments relate to loans 
  92 
 that will be held for sale upon funding, they are also accounted for as derivatives, with gains or losses included in mortgage 
banking income.  Gains and losses on other derivatives used to manage economic risk are primarily associated with client 
derivative activity and included in other income. 
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
Goodwill represents the cost in excess of
 the fair value of net assets acquired 
(including identifiable intangibles) in 
transactions accounted fo
r as acquisitions.  BB&T allocates goodwill to the re
porting unit(s) that recei
ves significant benefit
s from the acquisition.  Goodwill is not amortized over an estimated useful life, but rather is tested at least annually for 
impairment.  BB&T performs its impairment testing in the four
th quarter of each year and more frequently if circumstances 
exist that indicate a possible reduction in the fair value of th
e business below its carrying value.  BB&T measures impairment 
using the present value of estimated future cash flows.  The an
alysis is based upon available information regarding expected 
future cash flows and discount rates.  Disc
ount rates are based upon the cost of cap
ital specific to the industry in which the 
reporting unit operates.  If the carrying va
lue of the reporting unit exceeds its fair 
value, a second analysis is performed to
 measure the fair value of all assets and liabilities.  If, based 
on the second analysis, it is determined that the fair value o
f the 
assets and liabilities of the reporting unit is less than the ca
rrying value, BB&T would recognize impairment for the excess of
 carrying value over fair value. 
CDI and other intangible assets include premiums paid for acqui
sitions of core deposits and other identifiable intangible 
assets.  Intangible assets other than goodwill, which are dete
rmined to have finite lives, are amortized based upon the 
estimated economic benefits received. 
Loan Securitizations 
BB&T enters into loan securitization transactions related to 
most of its fixed-rate commercial and conforming residential 
mortgage loan originations.  In connection with these transactions, loans are converted into RMBS issued primarily by 
FHLMC, FNMA and GNMA, and are subsequently sold to third pa
rty investors.  BB&T records lo
an securitizations as a sale 
when the transferred loans are legally isolated from BB&T™s cr
editors and the other accounting criteria for a sale are met.  
Gains or losses recorded on loan securitizations are based in 
part on the net carrying amount of the loans sold, which is 
allocated between the loans sold and retained interests based on 
their relative fair values at the date of sale.  BB&T generall
y retains the mortgage servicing on loans sold.  Since quoted mark
et prices are not typically ava
ilable, BB&T estimates the fair 
value of these retained interests using modeling techniques to determine the net present value of expected future cash flows.  
Such models incorporate management™s best estimates of key variables, such as prepayment speeds and discount rates that 
would be used by market participants based on the risks involved.   
MSRs BB&T has two primary classes of MSRs for 
which it separately manages the economic
 risks: residential and commercial.  
Residential MSRs are recorded on the Conso
lidated Balance Sheets primarily at fair va
lue with changes in fair value recorded 
as a component of mortgage banking income.  Commercial MSRs are recorded as other assets on the Consolidated Balance 
Sheets at the lower of cost or market an
d are amortized in proportion to, and over 
the estimated period, that net servicing 
income is expected to be received based 
on projections of the amount and timing of
 estimated future net cash flows.  The 
amount and timing of estimated future net cash flows are u
pdated based on actual results and updated projections.  BB&T 
periodically evaluates its comm
ercial MSRs for impairment. 
Equity-Based Compensation 
BB&T maintains various equity-based compensation plans.  These plans provide for the granting of stock options (incentive 
and nonqualified), stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, RSUs, performance units and performance shares to selected 
BB&T employees and directors.  BB&T values share-based awards
 at the grant date fair value and recognizes the expense 
over the requisite service period taki
ng into account re
tirement eligibility. 
Pension and Postretiremen
t Benefit Obligations  
BB&T offers various pension plans and postretirement benefit plans to employees.  Calculation of the obligations and related 

expenses under these plans requires the use of actuarial valuation methods and assumptions.  The discount rate assumption 
used to measure the postretirement benefit obligations is set by
 reference to published high-quality bond indices, as well as 
certain hypothetical spot-rate yi
eld curves.  These yield curves were construc
ted from the underlying bond price and yield 
data collected as of the plan™s measurement date and are repres
ented by a series of annualized, individual discount rates with 
durations ranging from six months to thirty years.  BB&T also considers the individual characteristics of the plan, such as 
projected cash flow patterns and payment durations, when setting the discount rate.  The expected long-term rate of return on 
  93 
 assets is based on the expected returns fo
r each major asset class in which the plan 
invests, adjusted for the weight of each 
asset class in the target mix.   
Insurance Income 
Insurance commission revenue is recognized at the later of th
e billing date or the effective date of the related insurance 
policies.  Insurance premiums from underwriting activities are 
recognized as income over the policy term.  The portion of 
premiums that will be earned in the futu
re is deferred and included in other liab
ilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
Changes in Accounting Principles and Effects of New Accounting Pronouncements 
Effective January 1, 2012, the Comp
any adopted new guidance impacting 
Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures
.  The 
new guidance requires: quantitative information about the significant unobservable inputs used for Level 3 measurements; a 
qualitative discussion about the sensitivity of recurring Level 3 measurements to changes in the unobservable inputs 
disclosed, including the interrelationship between inputs; and a description of the company™s valuation processes.  The 
adoption of this guidance had no impact on BB&T™s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  The 
new disclosures required by this guidance are included in
 Note 18 to these consolid
ated financial statements. 
Effective January 1, 2012, the Comp
any adopted new guidance impacting 
Comprehensive Income
 that requires all changes in 
OCI to be presented either in a single continuous statement 
of comprehensive income or in two separate but consecutive 
financial statements.  The guidance does not change the items th
at must be reported in OCI.
  BB&T has elected to present 
two separate but consecutive financial statements. 
Effective January 1, 2012, the Comp
any adopted new guidance impacting 
Intangibles
 that permits an entity to first assess 
qualitative factors to determine whether the two step goodwill impair
ment test is required.  The adoption of this guidance had 
no impact on BB&T™s consolidated financial po
sition, results of operations or cash flows. 
Effective January 1, 2013, the Company will adopt new gui
dance impacting the presentation of certain items on the 
Balance 
Sheet.  The new guidance requires an entity to disclose both gross and net information about derivatives and securities 
borrowing and lending transactions that have a right of setoff or are subject to an enforceable master netting arrangement or 
similar agreement.  The adoption of this guidance will not 
impact BB&T™s consolidated financial position, results of 
operations or cash flows, but may result in certain additional disclosures. 
Effective January 1, 2013, the Company will adopt new guidance on 
Business Combinations
.  The new guidance clarifies that 
when a reporting entity recognizes an indemnification asset as
 a result of a government-assisted acquisition of a financial 
institution and subsequently a change in the cash flows expected
 to be collected on the indemnification asset occurs, the 
reporting entity should account for the change in the measurement of the indemnification asset on the same basis as the 
change in the assets subject to indemnification.  Any amortization of changes in value should be limited to the lesser of the 
contractual term of the indemnification agreement or the re
maining life of the indemnified assets.  BB&T has previously 
accounted for its indemnification asset in ac
cordance with this guidance; accordingly,
 this guidance will have no impact on 
BB&T™s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 
Effective January 1, 2013, the Company will adopt new guidance impacting 
Comprehensive Income
 that requires a reporting 
entity to present significant amounts reclas
sified out of AOCI by the respective line 
items of net income.  The adoption of 
this guidance will not impact BB&T™s consolidated financial pos
ition, results of operations or cash flows, but may result in 
certain additional disclosures. 
  94 
 NOTE 2.  Securities 
 The amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses and approximate
 fair values of securities available for sale and held to 
maturity were as follows:
                Amortized
Gross Unrealized 
 Fair 
  December 31, 2012
  Cost
Gains 
 Losses 
 Value 
      (Dollars in millions)
   Securities available for sale: 
              GSE securities $ 290 
$ Š $  Š $ 290 
   RMBS issued by GSE  
  20,482 
  466 
  18 
   20,930 
   States and political subdivisions  
  1,948 
  153 
  90 
   2,011 
   Non-agency RMBS 
  307 
  16 
  11 
   312 
   Other securities  
  3   Š   Š    3    Covered securities  
  1,147 
  444 
  Š   1,591 
    Total securities available for sale  
$ 24,177 
$ 1,079 
$  119 
 $ 25,137 
                 Securities held to maturity: 
            GSE securities $ 3,808 
$ 17 
$  1  $ 3,824 
   RMBS issued by GSE  
  9,273 
  238 
  1    9,510 
   States and political subdivisions  
  34 
  1   1    34 
   Other securities  
  479 
  4   3    480 
    Total securities held to maturity 
$ 13,594 
$ 260 
$  6  $ 13,848 
       Amortized
Gross Unrealized 
 Fair 
  December 31, 2011
  Cost
Gains 
 Losses 
 Value 
      (Dollars in millions)
   Securities available for sale: 
              GSE securities $ 305 
$ 1 $  Š  $ 306 
   RMBS issued by GSE  
  17,940 
  199 
  7    18,132 
   States and political subdivisions  
  1,977 
  91 
  145 
   1,923 
   Non-agency RMBS 
  423 
  Š   55 
   368 
   Other securities  
  7   Š   Š   7    Covered securities  
  1,240 
  343 
  6    1,577 
    Total securities available for sale  
$ 21,892 
$ 634 
$  213 
 $ 22,313 
         Securities held to maturity: 
        GSE securities $ 500 
$ Š $  Š  $ 500 
   RMBS issued by GSE  
  13,028 
  32 
  23 
   13,037 
   States and political subdivisions  
  35 
  Š   2    33 
   Other securities  
  531 
  1   4    528 
    Total securities held to maturity 
$ 14,094 
$ 33 
$  29 
 $ 14,098 
 As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the fair value of covered 
securities included $1.3 billion 
of non-agency RMBS and $326 
million of municipal securities. 
At December 31, 2012 and 2011, securities with carrying 
values of approximately $19
.0 billion and $15.5 billion, 
respectively, were pledged to secure municipal deposits, secu
rities sold under agreements to repurchase, other borrowings, 
and for other purposes as required or permitted by law. 
BB&T had certain investments in marketable debt securities 
and RMBS issued by FNMA and FHLMC that exceeded ten 
percent of shareholders™ equity at December 31, 2012.  The FN
MA investments had total amorti
zed cost and fair value of 
$13.1 billion and $13.3 billion, respectively.  The FHLMC investments had total amortized cost and fair value of $7.9 billion. 
   95 
 The gross realized gains and losses recognized in
 income are reflected in the following table: 
                  Years Ended December 31,
       2012
   2011 
 2010  
      (Dollars in millions)
   Gross gains  $ 1  $  175 
$ 607 
  Gross losses  
  (4)
   (1)
  (22)
   Net realized gains (losses) 
$ (3)
 $  174 
$ 585 
 The following table reflects changes in credit losses on other-t
han-temporarily impaired secur
ities, which was primarily non-
agency RMBS, where a portion of
 the unrealized loss was recogn
ized in OCI.  OTTI of $4 million related to covered 
securities during 2012 is not reflected in this table. 
      Years Ended December 31,
      2012
  2011 
2010 
      (Dollars in millions)
   Balance at beginning of period 
$ 130 
 $  31 
$ 2    Credit losses on securities not previous
ly considered other-than-temporarily 
        impaired 
     1   4    Credit losses on securities for which 
OTTI was previously recognized 
  5    111 
  28 
   Reductions for securities sold/settled during the period 
  (30)
   (13)
  (3)
  Balance at end of period 
$ 105 
 $  130 
$ 31 
 The amortized cost and estimated fair valu
e of the debt securities portfolio at D
ecember 31, 2012, by contractual maturity, 
are shown in the accompanying table.  Th
e expected life of RMBS will differ from
 contractual maturities because borrowers 
may have the right to prepay the underlying mortgage loans w
ith or without prepayment penalties.  For purposes of the 
maturity table, RMBS, which are not due at a single maturity date, have been included in maturity groupings based on the 

contractual maturity. 
     Available for Sale
 Held to Maturity
     Amortized
Fair 
 Amortized
  Fair 
  December 31, 2012
 Cost 
Value 
 Cost
  Value 
     (Dollars in millions)
   Due in one year or less  
$ 190 
$ 190 
 $   $   Due after one year through five years  
  130 
  133 
        Due after five years through ten years  
  636 
  676 
   3,674 
   3,688 
  Due after ten years  
  23,221 
  24,138 
   9,920 
   10,160 
   Total debt securities  
$ 24,177 
$ 25,137 
 $  13,594 
 $ 13,848 
  The following tables reflect the gross unrealized losses and fair values of BB&T™s investments, aggregated by investment 
category and length of time that individual securities 
have been in a continuous unrealized loss position: 
                         Less than 12 months
 12 months or more 
 Total 
       Fair
 Unrealized
Fair 
Unrealized 
 Fair 
Unrealized
  December 31, 2012
  Value
Losses 
Value 
Losses 
 Value 
Losses 
       (Dollars in millions)
   Securities available for sale: 
                    RMBS issued by GSE
 $ 2,662
$ 18$ Š$ Š  $  2,662
$ 18   States and political subdivisions  
  52  1  478
  89 
   530
  90   Non-agency RMBS 
  Š  Š  113
  11 
   113
  11    Total 
$ 2,714
$ 19$ 591
$ 100 
 $  3,305
$  119
              Securities held to maturity: 
                    GSE securities $ 805
$  1$  Š$ Š  $  805
$ 1   RMBS issued by GSE 
  593
  1  Š  Š    593
  1   States and political subdivisions  
  22  1  Š  Š    22  1   Other securities  
  266
  3  Š  Š    266
  3    Total 
$ 1,686
$ 6$ Š$ Š  $  1,686
$ 6    96 
       Less than 12 months
 12 months or more 
 Total 
       Fair
 Unrealized
Fair 
Unrealized 
 Fair 
Unrealized
  December 31, 2011
  Value
Losses 
Value 
Losses 
 Value 
Losses 
       (Dollars in millions)
   Securities available for sale: 
                    RMBS issued by GSE 
$ 3,098
$ 7$ Š$ Š  $  3,098
$ 7   States and political subdivisions  
  16  3  702
  142 
   718
  145
   Non-agency RMBS 
  Š  Š  368
  55 
   368
  55   Covered securities  
  29  6  Š  Š    29  6    Total 
$ 3,143
$ 16$ 1,070
$ 197 
 $  4,213
$ 213
         Securities held to maturity: 
              RMBS issued by GSE 
$ 7,770
$ 23$ Š$ Š  $  7,770
$ 23   States and political subdivisions  
  33  2  Š  Š    33  2   Other securities  
  207
  4  Š  Š    207
  4    Total 
$ 8,010
$ 29$ Š$ Š  $  8,010
$ 29 BB&T conducts periodic reviews to identify and evaluate each in
vestment with an unrealized lo
ss for OTTI.  An unrealized 
loss exists when the current fair value of an individual security
 is less than its amortized cost basis.  Unrealized losses tha
t are determined to be temporary in nature are recorded, ne
t of tax, in AOCI for available-for-sale securities. 
Factors considered in determining wh
ether a loss is temporary include: 
  The financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer, including any specific events that may influence the 
operations of the issuer;  
 BB&T™s intent to sell and whether it is more likely than no
t that the Company will be required to sell these debt 
securities before the anticipated recovery of the amortized cost basis;  
 The length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than cost;  
 Whether the decline in fair value is attributable to speci
fic conditions, such as conditions in an industry or in a 
geographic area;  
 Whether a debt security has been 
downgraded by a rating agency;  
 Whether the financial condition of the issuer has deteriorated;  
 The seniority of the security;  
 Whether dividends have been reduced or eliminated, or sche
duled interest payments on debt securities have not been 
made; and  
 Any other relevant available information. 
To the extent that BB&T has identified OTTI and does not intend
 to sell the security and it is more likely than not that BB&T 
will not be required to sell the security pr
ior to recovery, the credit component of the unrealized loss is recognized in earni
ngs 
and the non-credit co
mponent is recognized in AOCI.  In making this 
determination, BB&T considers its expected liquidity 
and capital needs, including its asset/liability management need
s, forecasts, strategies and 
other relevant information. 
BB&T uses cash flow modeling to evaluate non-agency RMBS 
in an unrealized loss position for potential credit impairment.  
These models give consideration to long-term macroeconomic f
actors applied to current security default rates, prepayment 
rates and recovery rates and security-level performance.  At
 December 31, 2012, four non-age
ncy RMBS with an unrealized 
loss were below investment grade.  None of
 the unrealized losses were significant.  
At December 31, 2012, $79 million of unr
ealized loss on municipal securities wa
s the result of fair value hedge basis 
adjustments that are a component of amortized cost.  Munici
pal securities in an unrealized loss position are evaluated for 
credit impairment through a qualitative analysis of issuer perf
ormance and the primary source of repayment.  The evaluation 
of municipal securities indicated th
ere were no credit losses evident. 
  97 
 NOTE 3.  Loans and Leases 
 The following table provides a breakdown of BB&
T™s loans and leases, net of unearned income:
         December 31,
      2012
  2011 
      (Dollars in millions)
   Commercial: 
        Commercial and industrial 
$  38,295 
 $ 36,415 
   CRE - other 
  11,461 
   10,689 
   CRE - residential ADC 
  1,261 
   2,061 
  Direct retail lending 
  15,817 
   14,506 
  Sales finance 
  7,736 
   7,401 
  Revolving credit 
  2,330 
   2,212 
  Residential mortgage  
  24,272 
   20,581 
  Other lending subsidiaries 
  10,137 
   8,737 
   Total loans and leases held for investment (excluding covered loans)  
  111,309 
   102,602 
  Covered 
  3,294 
   4,867 
   Total loans and leases held for investment 
  114,603 
   107,469 
  LHFS 
  3,761 
   3,736 
   Total loans and leases  
$  118,364 
 $ 111,205 
 Unearned income and net deferred loan f
ees and costs totaled $298 million and $37
4 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, 
respectively. BB&T had $75.4 billion in loans secured by real estate at Decem
ber 31, 2012.  However, these loans were not concentrated 
in any specific market or geograp
hic area other than Branch Bank™s primary markets.  Certain loans have been pledged as 
collateral to the FHLB and to the FRB.  The collateral pledged is
 used to secure FHLB advances and letters of credit issued 
by the FHLB and to provide additional borrowing capacity.
  Changes in the carrying amount and accretable yield for purchased impaired and nonimpaired covered loans accounted for 
under the accretion method were as follows: 
                       Year Ended December 31, 2012
Year Ended December 31, 2011
   Purchased Impaired
Purchased Nonimpaired
Purchased Impaired 
 Purchased Nonimpaired
     Carrying 
  Carrying 
  Carrying 
   Carrying 
   Accretable
Amount 
Accretable
Amount 
Accretable
Amount 
 Accretable
Amount 
   Yield of Loans
Yield 
of Loans
Yield 
of Loans
  Yield 
of Loans
   (Dollars in millions)
 Balance at beginning of period 
 $  520 
$ 2,123 
$ 1,193 
$ 2,744 
$ 833 
$  2,855 
 $  1,549 
$ 3,339 
 Accretion    (219)
  219 
  (541)
  541 
  (358)
  358 
   (691)
  691 
 Payments received, net  
    (942)
    (1,391)
    (1,090)
     (1,286)
 Other, net  
  (37)
    (35)
    45 
     335 
  Balance at end of period  
$  264 
$ 1,400 
$ 617 
$ 1,894 
$ 520 
$  2,123 
 $  1,193 
$ 2,744 
Outstanding unpaid principal balance 
          at end of period 
 $ 2,047 
 $ 2,489 
 $  3,269 
  $ 3,825 
   98 
 The following table provid
es a summary of TDRs that continue to accrue 
interest and TDRs that have been placed in 
nonaccrual status: 
              December 31,
     2012
  2011 
     (Dollars in millions)
   Performing TDRs: 
        Commercial: 
         Commercial and industrial 
$  77 
 $ 74 
    CRE - other 
  67 
   117 
    CRE - residential ADC 
  21 
   44 
   Direct retail lending 
  197 
   146 
   Sales finance 
  19 
   8    Revolving credit 
  56 
   62 
   Residential mortgage (1)(2) 
  769 
   608 
   Other lending subsidiaries 
  121 
   50 
   Total performing TDRs (1)(2) 
  1,327 
   1,109 
  Nonperforming TDRs (3) 
  240 
   280 
    Total TDRs (1)(2)(3)(4) 
$  1,567 
 $ 1,389 
 (1)  
Excludes mortgage TDRs held for investment that are government guaranteed totaling $313 million and $232 million at 
December 31, 2012 and 
2011, respectively.  
(2) 
Excludes mortgage TDRs held for sale that are government
 guaranteed totaling $2 million and $4 million at December 
31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
(3)  
Nonperforming TDRs are included in NPL disclosures.  
(4)  
All TDRs are considered impaired.  The ALLL attributable to these TDRs, excluding TDRs that are government 
guaranteed, totaled $281 million and $266 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
Commitments to lend additional funds to clients with loans cla
ssified as TDRs were immaterial at December 31, 2012 and 
2011.  The gross additional interest income 
that would have been earned if the loan
s and leases classified as nonaccrual had 
performed in accordance with the original terms was approximately $70 million, $93 million and $131 million in 2012, 2011 
and 2010, respectively.  The gross additional interest income that would have been earned in 2012, 2011 and 2010 had 
performing TDRs performed in accordance with the original terms is immaterial. 
  The following table provides
 a summary of BB&T™s NPAs 
and loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing: 
              December 31,
     2012
  2011 
     (Dollars in millions)
           NPLs held for investmen
t $  1,380 
 $ 1,872 
  Foreclosed real estate (1) 
  107 
   536 
  Other foreclosed property  
  49 
   42 
    Total NPAs (excluding covered assets) (1) 
$  1,536 
 $ 2,450 
  Loans 90 days or more past due and still accr
uing (excluding cove
red loans) (2)(3)(4) 
$  167 
 $ 202 
 (1)  
Excludes covered foreclosed real estate totaling $254 million and $378 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, 
respectively. (2)  
Excludes mortgage loans guaranteed by GNMA that BB&T has the right, but not the obligation, to repurchase totaling 
$517 million and $426 million as of D
ecember 31, 2012 and 201
1, respectively. 
(3)  
Excludes covered loans 90 days or more past due totaling 
$442 million and $736 million 
as of December 31, 2012 and 
2011, respectively. 
(4)  
Excludes mortgage loans 90 days or more past due that are government guaranteed totaling $254 million and $206 
million as of December 31, 
2012 and 2011, respectively. 
  99 
 NOTE 4.  Allowance for Credit Losses 
     Beginning
Charge-
    Ending 
  Year Ended December 31, 2012
  Balance 
OffsRecoveries
  Provision
Balance 
     (Dollars in millions)
   Commercial: 
              Commercial and industrial 
$ 433 
$ (337)
$ 17 
 $  357 
$ 470 
  CRE - other 
  334 
  (205)
  13 
   62 
  204 
  CRE - residential ADC 
  286 
  (190)
  41 
   (37)
  100 
  Other lending subsidiaries 
  11 
  (8)
  2    8   13 
          Retail: 
        Direct retail lending 
  232 
  (224)
  36 
   256 
  300 
  Revolving credit 
  112 
  (81)
  18 
   53 
  102 
  Residential mortgage 
  365 
  (136)
  3    96 
  328 
  Sales finance 
  38 
  (26)
  10 
   7   29 
  Other lending subsidiaries 
  186 
  (217)
  24 
   271 
  264 
          Covered  
  149 
  (34)
     13 
  128 
          Unallocated 
  110 
       (30)
  80 
 ALLL 
  2,256 
  (1,458)
  164 
   1,056 
  2,018 
 RUFC 
  29 
       1   30 
 ACL 
$ 2,285 
$ (1,458)
$ 164 
 $  1,057 
$ 2,048 
     Beginning
Charge-
    Ending 
  Year Ended December 31, 2011
  Balance 
OffsRecoveries
  Provision
Balance 
     (Dollars in millions)
   Commercial: 
              Commercial and industrial 
$ 621 
$ (323)
$ 28 
 $  107 
$ 433 
  CRE - other 
  446 
  (273)
  18 
   143 
  334 
  CRE - residential ADC 
  469 
  (302)
  25 
   94 
  286 
  Other lending subsidiaries 
  21 
  (9)
  3    (4)
  11 
          Retail: 
        Direct retail lending 
  246 
  (276)
  37 
   225 
  232 
  Revolving credit 
  109 
  (95)
  19 
   79 
  112 
  Residential mortgage 
  298 
  (269)
  5    331 
  365 
  Sales finance 
  47 
  (32)
  9    14 
  38 
  Other lending subsidiaries 
  177 
  (181)
  22 
   168 
  186 
          Covered  
  144 
  (66)
     71 
  149 
          Unallocated 
  130 
       (20)
  110 
 ALLL 
  2,708 
  (1,826)
  166 
   1,208 
  2,256 
 RUFC 
  47 
       (18)
  29 
 ACL 
$ 2,755 
$ (1,826)
$ 166 
 $  1,190 
$ 2,285 
    Beginning
 Charge-
      Ending 
  Year Ended December 31, 2010
 Balance 
 Offs Recoveries
Provision
  Other
 Balance 
    (Dollars in millions)
   ALLL 
$ 2,600 
$ (2,658)
$ 130 
$ 2,663 
 $  (27)
$ 2,708 
 RUFC 
  72 
      (25)
     47 
 ACL 
$ 2,672 
$ (2,658)
$ 130 
$ 2,638 
 $  (27)
$ 2,755 
   100 
 The following tables provide a breakdown of the ALLL and the recorded investment in loans based on the method for 
determining the allowance: 
                 ALLL 
     December 31, 2012 
 December 31, 2011 
     Individually
Collectively
  Individually 
 Collectively 
     Evaluated 
Evaluated
  Evaluated 
 Evaluated 
     for 
for for 
 for 
   Impairment
Impairment
  Impairment 
 Impairment
     (Dollars in millions) 
  Commercial: 
             Commercial and industrial 
$ 73 
$ 397 
 $  77 
 $ 356 
  CRE - other 
  36 
  168 
   69 
   265 
  CRE - residential ADC 
  21 
  79 
   50 
   236 
  Other lending subsidiaries 
  1   12 
   1    10 
          Retail: 
        Direct retail lending 
  59 
  241 
   35 
   197 
  Revolving credit 
  24 
  78 
   27 
   85 
  Residential mortgage 
  130 
  198 
   152 
   213 
  Sales finance 
  6   23 
   1    37 
  Other lending subsidiaries 
  61 
  203 
   20 
   166 
          Covered  
    128 
      149 
          Unallocated 
    80 
      110 
   Total 
$ 411 
$ 1,607 
 $  432 
 $ 1,824 
     Loans and Leases
       December 31, 2012
 December 31, 2011 
      Individually
Collectively
  Individually
 Collectively 
      Evaluated
Evaluated
  Evaluated
 Evaluated 
      forfor for for 
    Impairment
Impairment
  Impairment
 Impairment
      (Dollars in millions)
   Commercial: 
             Commercial and industrial 
$ 631 
$ 37,664 
 $  656 
 $ 35,759 
   CRE - other 
  312 
  11,149 
   511 
   10,178 
   CRE - residential ADC 
  155 
  1,106 
   420 
   1,641 
   Other lending subsidiaries 
  3   4,135 
   5    3,621 
             Retail: 
        Direct retail lending 
  235 
  15,582 
   165 
   14,341 
   Revolving credit 
  56 
  2,274 
   62 
   2,150 
   Residential mortgage 
  1,187 
  23,085 
   931 
   19,650 
   Sales finance 
  22 
  7,714 
   10 
   7,391 
   Other lending subsidiaries 
  146 
  5,853 
   49 
   5,062 
             Covered  
    3,294 
      4,867 
   Total 
$ 2,747 
$ 111,856 
 $  2,809 
 $ 104,660 
BB&T monitors the credit quality of its commercial portfolio se
gment using internal risk ratings.  These risk ratings are 
based on established regulatory guidance.  Loans with a Pass rating represent those not considered a problem credit.  Special 
mention loans are those that have a potential weakness deserving management™s close attention.  Substandard loans are those 
for which a well-defined weakness has been identified that may put full collection of contractual cash flows at risk.  

Substandard loans are placed in nonaccrual status when BB&T be
lieves it is no longer probable it will collect all contractual 
cash flows.  BB&T assigns an internal risk
 rating at loan origination and reviews the 
relationship again on an annual basis or 
at any point management becomes aware of information a
ffecting the borrower™s ability to fulfill their obligations. 
  101 
 BB&T monitors the credit quality of its retail portfolio segment 
based primarily on delinquency status, which is the primary 
factor considered in determining whether a re
tail loan should be classified as nonaccrual. 
 The following tables illustrate the credit quality indicators asso
ciated with loans and leases held for investment.  Covered 
loans are excluded from this analysis
 because their related allowance is determined by loan pool performance. 
          CRE - 
 Other 
      Commercial 
  Residential 
 Lending 
  December 31, 2012 
 & Industrial 
CRE - Other 
 ADC 
 Subsidiaries 
     (Dollars in millions)
   Commercial: 
            Pass $ 36,044 
$ 10,095 
$ 859 
$ 4,093 
  Special mention
  274 
 120 
 41 
 13 
  Substandard - performing
  1,431 
 1,034 
 233 
 29 
  Nonperforming
   546 
  212 
  128 
  3    Total $ 38,295 
$ 11,461 
$ 1,261 
$ 4,138 
      Direct Retail 
 Revolving 
Residential 
 Sales 
 Other Lending
     Lending 
 Credit 
Mortgage 
 Finance 
 Subsidiaries 
     (Dollars in millions)
   Retail: 
              Performing
 $ 15,685 
$ 2,330 
$ 24,003 
$ 7,729 
$ 5,916 
  Nonperforming
   132 
  269 
 7  83 
   Total $ 15,817 
$ 2,330 
$ 24,272 
$ 7,736 
$ 5,999 
           CRE - 
 Other 
      Commercial 
  Residential 
 Lending 
  December 31, 2011 
 & Industrial 
CRE - Other 
 ADC 
 Subsidiaries 
     (Dollars in millions)
   Commercial: 
            Pass $ 33,497 
$ 8,568 
$ 1,085 
$ 3,578 
  Special mention
  488 
 234 
 60 
 5   Substandard - performing
  1,848 
 1,493 
 540 
 35 
  Nonperforming
   582 
  394 
  376 
  8    Total 
 $ 36,415 
$ 10,689 
$ 2,061 
$ 3,626 
       Direct Retail 
 Revolving 
Residential 
 Sales 
 Other Lending
      Lending 
 Credit 
Mortgage 
 Finance 
 Subsidiaries 
      (Dollars in millions)
   Retail: 
              Performing
 $ 14,364 
$ 2,212 
$ 20,273 
$ 7,394 
$ 5,056 
  Nonperforming
  142 
  308 
 7  55 
   Total $ 14,506 
$ 2,212 
$ 20,581 
$ 7,401 
$ 5,111 
    102 
 The following tables represent aging analyses of BB&T's past
 due loans and leases held for investment.  Covered loans 
have been excluded from this aging analys
is because they are covered by FDIC lo
ss sharing agreements, and their related 
allowance is determined by loan pool performan
ce due to the application of the accretion method. 
       Accruing Loans and Leases
             90 Days Or
 Nonaccrual
  Total Loans And
      30-89 Days 
More Past
 Loans And
  Leases, Excluding
  December 31, 2012
 Current
Past Due 
Due
 Leases
  Covered Loans 
     (Dollars in millions)
   Commercial: 
              Commercial and industrial 
$ 37,706 
$ 42 
$ 1 $  546 
 $  38,295 
   CRE - other 
  11,237 
  12 
    212 
   11,461 
   CRE - residential ADC 
  1,131 
  2     128 
   1,261 
   Other lending subsidiaries 
  4,106 
  20 
  9   3    4,138 
             Retail: 
        Direct retail lending 
  15,502 
  145 
  38 
  132 
   15,817 
   Revolving credit 
  2,291 
  23 
  16 
     2,330 
   Residential mortgage (1)(2) 
  22,555 
  582 
  344 
  269 
   23,750 
   Sales finance 
  7,663 
  56 
  10 
  7    7,736 
   Other lending subsidiaries 
  5,645 
  270 
  1   83 
   5,999 
    Total (1)(2) 
$ 107,836 
$ 1,152 
$ 419 
$  1,380 
 $  110,787 
      Accruing Loans and Leases
              90 Days Or
 Nonaccrual
  Total Loans And
       30-89 Days 
More Past
 Loans And
  Leases, Excluding
  December 31, 2011
 Current
Past Due 
Due
 Leases
  Covered Loans 
      (Dollars in millions)
   Commercial: 
              Commercial and industrial 
$ 35,746 
$ 85 
$ 2 $  582 
 $  36,415 
   CRE - other 
  10,273 
  22 
    394 
   10,689 
   CRE - residential ADC 
  1,671 
  14 
    376 
   2,061 
   Other lending subsidiaries 
  3,589 
  25 
  4   8    3,626 
              Retail: 
        Direct retail lending 
  14,146 
  162 
  56 
  142 
   14,506 
   Revolving credit 
  2,173 
  22 
  17 
     2,212 
   Residential mortgage (1)(2) 
  19,406 
  560 
  307 
  308 
   20,581 
   Sales finance 
  7,301 
  75 
  18 
  7    7,401 
   Other lending subsidiaries 
  4,807 
  248 
  1   55 
   5,111 
    Total (1)(2) 
$ 99,112 
$ 1,213 
$ 405 
$  1,872 
 $  102,602 
(1) 
Residential mortgage loans include $84 million and $81 million in government guaranteed loans 30-89 days past due, 
and $252 million and $203 million in government guaranteed loans 90 days or more past due as of December 31, 2012 
and 2011, respectively.   
(2) 
Residential mortgage loans exclude $5 million and $7 million in loans guaranteed by GNMA that BB&T has the option, 
but not the obligation, to repurchase which are past due 30-89 days at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  
Residential mortgage loans exclude $517 million and $426 million in loans guaranteed by GNMA that BB&T has the 
option, but not the obligation,
 to repurchase, which are past due 90 da
ys or more at Decem
ber 31, 2012 and 2011, 
respectively.    103 
 The following tables set forth certain information regarding BB&
T's impaired loans, excluding purchased impaired loans and 
LHFS, that were evaluated for specific reserves. 
             Unpaid 
   Average 
Interest 
      Recorded
 Principal
Related
  Recorded
Income 
  As Of / For The Year Ended December 31, 2012
 Investment
 Balance
Allowance
  Investment
Recognized
      (Dollars in millions)
   With No Related Allowance Recorded: 
              Commercial: 
               Commercial and industrial 
$ 116 
$ 232 
$  $  117 
$     CRE - other 
  60 
  108 
     81 
      CRE - residential ADC 
  44 
  115 
     103 
                 Retail: 
         Direct retail lending 
  19 
  73 
     19 
  1     Residential mortgage (1) 
  120 
  201 
     80 
  2     Sales finance 
  1   3      1       Other lending subsidiaries 
  2   6      3                 With An Allowance Recorded: 
        Commercial: 
               Commercial and industrial 
  515 
  551 
  73 
   522 
  3     CRE - other 
  252 
  255 
  36 
   319 
  5     CRE - residential ADC 
  111 
  116 
  21 
   180 
  1     Other lending subsidiaries 
  3   3   1    4                  Retail: 
         Direct retail lending 
  216 
  226 
  59 
   140 
  9     Revolving credit 
  56 
  56 
  24 
   59 
  2     Residential mortgage (1) 
  754 
  770 
  104 
   649 
  28 
    Sales finance 
  21 
  21 
  6    13 
      Other lending subsidiaries 
  144 
  146 
  61 
   66 
  2      Total (1)
 $ 2,434 
$ 2,882 
$ 385 
 $  2,356 
$ 53 
   104 
        Unpaid
   Average
 Interest
      Recorded
 Principal
Related
  Recorded 
Income
  As Of / For The Year Ended December 31, 2011
 Investment
 Balance
Allowance
  Investment
Recognized
      (Dollars in millions)
   With No Related Allowance Recorded: 
              Commercial: 
               Commercial and industrial 
$ 114 
$ 196 
$  $  153 
$    CRE - other 
  102 
  163 
     142 
     CRE - residential ADC 
  153 
  289 
     187 
               Retail: 
         Direct retail lending 
  19 
  74 
     23 
  1    Residential mortgage (1) 
  46 
  85 
     31 
  1    Sales finance 
  1   1      1      Other lending subsidiaries 
  2   4      1               With An Allowance Recorded: 
        Commercial: 
               Commercial and industrial 
  542 
  552 
  77 
   482 
  4    CRE - other 
  409 
  433 
  69 
   466 
  7    CRE - residential ADC 
  267 
  298 
  50 
   360 
  4    Other lending subsidiaries 
  5   5   1    4                Retail: 
         Direct retail lending 
  146 
  153 
  35 
   148 
  9    Revolving credit 
  62 
  61 
  27 
   62 
  3    Residential mortgage (1) 
  653 
  674 
  125 
   627 
  28 
   Sales finance 
  9   10 
  1    6      Other lending subsidiaries 
  47 
  50 
  20 
   35 
  2     Total (1)
 $ 2,577 
$ 3,048 
$ 405 
 $  2,728 
$ 59 
       (1) 
Residential mortgage loans exclude $313 million and $232 million in government guaranteed loans and related 
allowance of $26 million and $27 million as of
 December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
   105 
 The following tables provide a 
summary of the primary reason 
current year loan modifications were classified as TDRs 
and their estimated impact on the ALLL: 
         Years Ended December 31,
         2012
2011
         Types of
  Types of 
         Modifications (1)
 Impact To
Modifications (1) 
Impact To
        Rate (2)
 Structure
Other
 ALLL 
Rate (2) 
 Structure
ALLL 
        (Dollars in millions)
   Commercial: 
                  Commercial and industrial 
$ 37 
$ 63 
$ 14 
$ $ 29 
 $  68 
$ 5   CRE - other 
  60 
  45 
  7     56 
   58 
  8   CRE - residential ADC 
  41 
  34 
  3   (1)
  29 
   47 
  10 
  Other lending subsidiaries 
          1    1                   Retail: 
          Direct retail lending 
  38 
  17 
  82 
  35 
  51 
   5   9   Revolving credit 
  30 
      5   40 
     8   Residential mortgage 
  106 
  88 
  135 
  22 
  142 
   35 
  17 
  Sales finance 
  4     12 
  4   5    5   1   Other lending subsidiaries 
  106 
  2   17 
  35 
  37 
   7   15 
(1) 
Includes modifications made to existing TDRs, as well as new modifications that are considered TDRs.  Balances 
represent the recorded investment 
as of the end of the period in which the modification was made. 
(2) 
Includes TDRs made with a below market interest rate that also includes a modification of loan structure. 
During 2012, a national bank regulatory agency issued guidance that requires certain loans that had been discharged in 
bankruptcy and not reaffirmed by the borrower to be accounted for as TDRs and possibly as nonperforming, regardless of 
their actual payment history and expected
 performance.  As of December 31, 2
012, the Company™s primary regulators had 
not reached a final decision on how this guidance may apply to its regulated entities.  BB&T concluded that these loans 
should be classified as TDRs 
and these are included in ﬁOth
erﬂ in the above table.  BB&T has also concluded there is a 
reasonable expectation of collection of 
principal and interest and has classified
 these loans as performing unless already 
classified as nonperforming. 
Charge-offs recorded at the modification date were $25 milli
on and $47 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 
2011, respectively.  The forgiveness of principal or interest 
for TDRs recorded during the year
 ended December 31, 2012 and 
2011 was immaterial.   
The following table summarizes the pre-default balance for modi
fications that experienced a pa
yment default that had been 
classified as TDRs during the previous 12 months.  BB&T defines payment default as movement of the TDR to nonaccrual 
status, foreclosure or charge-off, whichever occurs first. 
      Years Ended December 31,
      2012 
  2011  
      (Dollars in millions)
   Commercial: 
        Commercial and industrial 
$  8  $ 39   CRE - other 
  6    92   CRE - residential ADC 
  14 
   80             Retail: 
        Direct retail lending 
  8    16   Revolving credit 
  12 
   15   Residential mortgage  
  36 
   31   Sales finance 
     2   Other lending subsidiaries 
  12 
   5            If a TDR subsequently defaults, BB&T evaluates the TDR for po
ssible impairment.  As a result, the related allowance may 
be increased or charge-offs may be taken to reduce the carrying value of the loan. 
  106 
 NOTE 5.  Premises and Equipment 
A summary of premises and equipment is 
presented in the accompanying table:  
     Estimated
 December 31,
     Useful Life
 2012
  2011 
     (Years)
 (Dollars in millions)
   Land and land improvements 
  $  547 
 $ 508 
  Buildings and building improvements 
 40  
  1,235 
   1,220 
  Furniture and equipment 
 5 - 10  1,141 
   1,132 
  Leasehold improvements 
    555 
   521 
  Construction in progress 
    37 
   37 
  Capitalized leases on premises and equipment 
    59 
   52 
   Total 
    3,574 
   3,470 
  Less - accumulated depreciation and amortization 
    (1,686)
   (1,615)
   Net premises and equipmen
t   $  1,888 
 $ 1,855 
BB&T has noncancelable leases covering certain premises and equi
pment.  Total rent expense applicable to operating leases 
was $215 million, $199 million and $188 million for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Rental income from owned 
properties and subleases was $8 million, $7 million and $8 million for 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Future minimum 

lease payments for operating leases for the five years subseque
nt to 2012 are $197 million, $181 million, $164 million, $147 
million and $128 million.  The payments for 2018 and later years total $613 million. 
NOTE 6.
  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
 The changes in the carrying amounts of goodw
ill attributable to each of BB&T™s operat
ing segments are reflected in the table 
below.  To date, there have been no goodwill impairments recorded by BB&T.
       Residential
Dealer 
          Community
Mortgage 
Financial 
Specialized
Insurance 
 Financial 
      Banking
Banking
Services 
Lending
Services
  Services
 Total
     (Dollars in millions)
  Balance, January 1, 2011 
$  4,537 
$ 7 $ 111 
$ 94 
$ 1,067 
 $  192 
$ 6,008 
 Acquired goodwill, net 
          45 
     45 
 Contingent consideration 
          20 
     20 
 Other adjustments  
  5              5 Balance, December 31, 2011 
$  4,542 
$ 7 $ 111 
$ 94 
$ 1,132 
 $  192 
$ 6,078 
 Acquired goodwill, net 
  358 
      5   358 
     721 
 Contingent consideration 
          3      3  Other adjustments  
          2      2 Balance, December 31, 2012 
$  4,900 
$ 7 $ 111 
$ 99 
$ 1,495 
 $  192 
$ 6,804 
 The following table presents the gross carrying amounts and accumulated amortization for BB&T™s identifiable intangible 
assets subject to amortization:  
                       December 31, 2012
December 31, 2011 
     Gross
 Net 
Gross 
  Net 
     Carrying
Accumulated
Carrying 
Carrying 
 Accumulated 
Carrying 
     Amount
Amortization
Amount
Amount 
 Amortization 
Amount
     (Dollars in millions)
   Identifiable intangible assets: 
                 CDI $ 672 
$ (522)
$ 150 
$ 626 
 $  (484)
 $ 142 
   Other (1)  
  1,080 
  (557)
  523 
  787 
   (485)
   302 
    Totals  
$ 1,752 
$ (1,079)
$ 673 
$ 1,413 
 $  (969)
 $ 444 
 (1) 
Other identifiable intangibles are primarily
 customer relationship intangibles.  
   107 
 During 2012, BB&T acquired the life and property and casualty insurance divisions of Crump Group Inc.  The changes in 
Insurance Services goodwill and other identifiable intangibles were
 primarily the result of this acquisition, although the fina
l purchase accounting has not been completed. 
During 2012, BB&T completed the acquisition of Fort La
uderdale, Florida-based BankAtlantic.  BB&T acquired 
approximately $1.7 billion in loans and assumed approximatel
y $3.5 billion in deposits.  BB&T also assumed the seller™s 
obligations with respect to outstanding trust preferred securities,
 with an aggregate principal balance of $285 million.  In 
exchange for the assumption of these liabilities, BB&T received 
a 95% preferred interest in a newly established LLC, which 
holds a pool of loans and other net assets.  BankAtlantic Ba
ncorp also provided BB&T with an incremental $35 million 
guarantee to further assure BB&T™s recovery of the $285 million.  The LLC™s assets will be monetized over time and once 
BB&T has recovered $285 million in preference amount from the 
LLC plus a defined return, BB&T™s interest in the LLC 
will terminate.  The net purchase price r
eceived, excluding cash held by BankAtlan
tic, was $45 million, which consisted of 
net liabilities assumed less a deposit premium of $316 million.  The changes in Community Banking goodwill and CDI were 
primarily the result of this acquisition, although th
e final purchase accounting has not been completed. 
At December 31, 2012, the weighted-average
 remaining life of CDI and other identifia
ble intangibles was 7.9 years and 15.9 
years, respectively.  Estimated amortization expense of identifia
ble intangible assets for each for the next five years total 
$105 million, $89 million, $75 million, $65 million and $56 million. 
NOTE 7.  Loan Servicing 
Residential Mortgage Banking Activities 
 The following tables summarize residential mortgage banking activities for the periods presented:  
     December 31,
     2012
  2011 
     (Dollars in millions)
   Mortgage loans managed or securitized (1)  
$  29,882 
 $ 26,559 
  Less: Loans securitized and transferre
d to securities available for sale 
  4    4    LHFS 
  3,547 
   3,394 
   Covered mortgage loans  
  1,040 
   1,264 
   Mortgage loans sold with recourse  
  1,019 
   1,316 
  Mortgage loans held for investment  
$  24,272 
 $ 20,581 
 Mortgage loans on nonaccrual status 
$  269 
 $ 308 
 Mortgage loans 90 days or more pa
st due and still accruing interest (2)  
  92 
   104 
  Mortgage loans net charge-offs - year to date 
  133 
   264 
  Unpaid principal balance of residential mortgage loans servicing portfolio 
  101,270 
   91,640 
  Unpaid principal balance of residential mortgage loans serviced for others 
  73,769 
   67,066 
  Maximum recourse exposure from mortgage loans sold with recourse liability 
  446 
   522 
  Recorded reserves related to recourse exposure 
  12 
   6   Repurchase reserves for mortgage loan sales to GSEs 
  59 
   29 
 (1) 
Balances exclude loans serviced for others with no other continuing involvement.  
(2) 
Includes amounts related to residential mortgage LHFS and excludes amounts related to government guaranteed loans 
and covered mortgage loans.  Refer to the Loans and Leases Note for additional disclosures related to past due 
government guaranteed loans. 
   108 
     As Of / For The 
     Years Ended December 31,
     2012
  2011 
     (Dollars in millions)
    Unpaid principal balance of residential mortgage loans sold from the held for  
          sale portfolio 
$ 25,640 
  $  17,202 
   Pre-tax gains recognized on mortgage loans sold and held for sale 
  539 
    175 
   Servicing fees recogni
zed from mortgage loans serviced for others 
  247 
    240 
  Approximate weighted average servicing 
fee on the outstanding balance of  
          residential mortgage loans serviced for others 
  0.32 
%    0.34 
%  Weighted average coupon interest rate on mortgage loans serviced for others 
  4.59 
    5.02 
 The unpaid principal balances of BB&T™s total residential mortgage loans serviced for others consist primarily of agency 
conforming fixed-rate mortgage loans.  Mortgage loans serviced for others are not included in loans and leases on the 
accompanying Consolidat
ed Balance Sheets. 
During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, BB&T sold residential mortgage loans from the held for sale portfolio 
and recognized pre-tax gains including marking LHFS to fair valu
e and the impact of interest rate lock commitments.  These 
gains are recorded in noninterest income as a component of mortgage banking income.  BB&T retained the related MSRs and 

receives servicing fees. 
At December 31, 2012 and 2011, BB&T had residential mortgage
 loans sold with recourse 
liability.  In the event of 
nonperformance by the borrower, BB&T has 
recourse exposure for these loans. 
 At both December 31, 2012 and 2011, 
BB&T has recorded reserves related to these recourse expo
sures.  Payments made to date have been immaterial. 
BB&T also issues standard representatio
ns and warranties related to mortgage loan sales to GSEs.  Although these 
agreements often do not specify limitations, BB&T does not be
lieve that any payments related to these warranties would 
materially change the financial condition or results of operations of BB&T.
 Residential MSRs are primarily recorded on the Consolidated Bala
nce Sheets at fair value with changes in fair value recorded 
as a component of mortgage banking income in the Consolidated Statements of Income for each period.  BB&T uses various 
derivative instruments to mitigate the income statement effect of changes in fair value due to changes in valuation inputs and 
assumptions of its residential MSRs.  The following is an
 analysis of the activity in
 BB&T™s residential MSRs:  
       Years Ended December 31,
       2012
  2011
 2010 
       (Dollars in millions)
   Carrying value, January 1,  
$ 563 
 $  830 
$ 832 
   Additions  
  270 
   225 
  265 
   Change in fair value due to changes in valuation inputs or assumptions: 
           Prepayment speeds 
  19 
   (284)
  (66)
    Weighted average OAS 
  (36)
   (20)
  (28)
    Servicing costs 
  (22)
   (30)
  (44)
    Other 
  7    (7)
    Other changes (1)  
  (174)
   (151)
  (129)
 Carrying value, December 31, 
$ 627 
 $  563 
$ 830 
           Gains (losses) on derivative financial instruments used to mitigate the 
          income statement effect of changes in fair value 
$ 128 
 $  394 
$ 196 
 (1) 
Represents the realization of expected net servicing cash flow
s, expected borrower payments
 and the passage of time.  
During 2012, the prepayment speed assumptions were updated as actual prepayments have slowed relative to modeled 
projections as interest rates have begun to stabilize and the higher coupon, faster prepaying mortgage loans were refinanced 
over the past two years.  Management also increased its OAS 
assumption to reflect the return that management believes a 
market participant would require in the current market.  The se
rvicing costs assumptions have also been increased due to the 
expectation of higher costs that 
continued to impact the industry. 
At December 31, 2012, the valuation of MSRs was based on
 prepayment speeds ranging fr
om 15.3% to 18.5% and OAS 
ranging from 8.22% to 8.35%.  The sensitivity of the current fa
ir value of the residential MSRs to immediate 10% and 20% 
adverse changes in key economic assumptions
 is included in the accompanying table: 
  109 
      December 31, 
     2012 
 2011 
     (Dollars in millions) 
  Fair value of residential MSRs 
$ 627 
  $  563 
   Composition of residential loans serviced for others: 
          Fixed-rate mortgage loans  
  99 
%    99 
%    Adjustable-rate mortgage loans  
  1     1      Total  
  100 
%    100 
%   Weighted average life  
  4.4 
yrs 
   3.7 
yrs
             Prepayment speed  
  17.3 
%    20.8 
%    Effect on fair value of a 10% increase  
$ (35)
  $  (35)
    Effect on fair value of a 20% increase  
  (67)
    (66)
             Weighted average OAS 
  8.3 
%    6.9 
%    Effect on fair value of a 10% increase  
$ (17)
  $  (12)
    Effect on fair value of a 20% increase  
  (33)
    (23)
  The sensitivity calculations above are hypothetical and should not 
be considered to be predictive of future performance.  As 
indicated, changes in fair value based on
 adverse changes in assumptions genera
lly cannot be extrapolated because the 
relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear.  Also, in the above table, the effect o
f an adverse variation in a particular assumption on the fair 
value of the MSRs is calculated without changing any other 
assumption; while in reality, changes in one factor may result 
in changes in another, which may magnify or counteract the 
effect of the change. 
Commercial Mortgage Banking Activities 
 CRE mortgage loans serviced for others are not included in
 loans and leases on the accompanying Consolidated Balance 
Sheets.  The following table summarizes commercial mortgage banking activities for the periods presented: 
      December 31,
      2012
  2011 
      (Dollars in millions)
   Unpaid principal balance of CRE mortgages serviced for others 
$  29,520 
 $ 25,367 
  CRE mortgages serviced for others covered by recourse provisions 
  4,970 
   4,520 
  Maximum recourse exposure from CRE mortgages  
        sold with recourse liability 
  1,368 
   1,226 
  Recorded reserves related to recourse exposure 
  13 
   15 
  Originated CRE mortgages during the period - year to date 
  4,934 
   4,803 
NOTE 8.  Federal Funds Purchased, S
ecurities Sold Under Agreements to 
Repurchase and Short-Term Borrowed 
Funds 
Federal funds purchased, securities sold under agreements to 
repurchase and short-term borr
owed funds are summarized as 
follows:  
        December 31,
        2012
  2011 
        (Dollars in millions)
   Federal funds purchased 
$  4  $ 12 
  Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 
  514 
   619 
  Master notes 
  37 
   296 
  Other short-term borrowed funds 
  2,309 
   2,639 
  Total 
$  2,864 
 $ 3,566 
Federal funds purchased represent unsecured borrowings from ot
her banks and generally mature daily.  Securities sold under 
agreements to repurchase are borrowings 
collateralized primarily by securities of 
the U.S. government or its agencies.  
Master notes are unsecured, non-negotiable obligations of BB&T (v
ariable rate commercial paper) that mature in 270 days or 
less.  Other short-term borrowed funds include unsecured bank no
tes that mature in less than one year, bank obligations with 
  110 
 a maturity of seven days that are collateralized by municipal 
securities and U.S. Treasury tax 
and loan deposit notes payable 
to the U.S. Treasury upon demand. 
A summary of selected data related to Federal funds purchase
d, securities sold under agreements to repurchase and short-
term borrowed funds follows: 
        As Of / For The Years Ended December 31,
        2012
2011
  2010 
        (Dollars in millions)
   Maximum outstanding at any month-end during the year 
$ 4,385 
 $ 10,473 
  $  11,690 
   Balance outstanding at end of year 
  2,864 
   3,566 
    5,673 
   Average outstanding during the year 
  3,408 
   5,189 
    9,022 
   Average interest rate during the year (1) 
  0.20 
%  0.21 
%  0.24 
%  Average interest rate at end of year 
  0.22 
   0.20 
    0.46 
  (1) 
Includes the impact of derivative activities. 
           NOTE 9.  Deposits 
 A summary of BB&T™s deposits is presented in the accompanying table:
       December 31,
       2012
  2011 
       (Dollars in millions)
   Noninteres
t-bearing deposits 
$  32,452 
 $ 25,684 
  Interest checking 
  21,091 
   20,701 
  Money market and savings 
  47,908 
   44,618 
  Certificates and other time deposits 
  31,624 
   33,899 
  Foreign office deposits - interest-bearing 
     37 
   Total deposits 
$  133,075 
 $ 124,939 
           Time deposits $100,000 and greater 
$  19,328 
 $ 19,819 
  111 
 NOTE 10.  Long-Term Debt 
 Long-term debt comprised the following:
                    December 31,
       2012
  2011 
       (Dollars in millions)
   BB&T Corporation:
         3.85% Senior Notes Due 2012 
$   $ 1,000 
   3.38% Senior Notes Due 2013 
  500 
   500 
   5.70% Senior Notes Due 2014 
  510 
   510 
   2.05% Senior Notes Due 2014 
  700 
   700 
   Floating Rate Senior Note Due 2014 (1) 
  300 
   300 
   3.95% Senior Notes Due 2016 
  500 
   499 
  3.20% Senior Notes Due 2016 
  999 
   999 
  2.15% Senior Notes Due 2017 
  748 
     1.60% Senior Notes Due 2017 
  749 
     1.45% Senior Notes Due 2018 
  499 
     6.85% Senior Notes Due 2019 
  539 
   538 
  4.75% Subordinated 
Notes Due 2012 (2) 
     490 
  5.20% Subordinated 
Notes Due 2015 (2) 
  933 
   933 
  4.90% Subordinated 
Notes Due 2017 (2) 
  345 
   342 
  5.25% Subordinated 
Notes Due 2019 (2) 
  586 
   586 
  3.95% Subordinated 
Notes Due 2022 (2) 
  298 
    Branch Bank:
        Floating Rate Subordinated Notes Due 2016 (2)(3) 
  350 
   350 
  Floating Rate Subordinated Notes Due 2017 (2)(3) 
  262 
   262 
  4.875% Subordinated Notes Due 2013 (2) 
  222 
   222 
  5.625% Subordinated Notes Due 2016 (2) 
  386 
   386 
 FHLB Advances to Branch Bank: (4)
        Varying maturities to 2034 
  8,994 
   8,998 
 Junior Subordinated Debt to Unconsolidated Trusts (5)
     3,271 
 Other Long-Term Debt 
   100 
   83 
  Fair value hedge-related basis adjustments 
  594 
   834 
    Total Long-Term Debt 
 $  19,114 
 $ 21,803 
 (1) 
This floating-rate senior note is based on LIBOR and had an effective rate of 1.01% at December 31, 2012. 
(2) 
Subordinated notes that qualify under the risk-based capital gu
idelines as Tier 2 supplementar
y capital, subject to certain 
limitations. 
(3) 
These floating-rate securities are based on 
LIBOR, but the majority of
 the cash flows have been swapped to a fixed rate.  
The effective rate paid on these securities including the ef
fect of the swapped portion was 3.25% at December 31, 2012. 
(4) 
Certain of these advances have been swapped to floating rates 
from fixed rates or from fixed 
rates to floating rates.  At 
December 31, 2012, the weighted average ra
te paid on these advances including 
the effect of the swapped portion was 
3.58%, and the weighted aver
age maturity was 6.9 years. 
(5) 
Securities that qualified under the risk-based capital guide
lines as Tier 1 capital, subject to certain limitations. 
Excluding capitalized leases, future debt maturities total $1.7 billion, $2.1 billion, $1.1 billion, $3.9 billion, and $2.5 bil
lion 
for the next five years.  The maturities 
for 2018 and later years total $7.8 billion. 
In connection with the acquisition of BankAtlantic, BB&T assumed $285 million in junior subordinated debt to 

unconsolidated trusts, which was redeemed 
prior to December 31, 2012. 
 BB&T has no junior subord
inated debt outstanding 
as of December 31, 2012. 
  112 
 NOTE 11.  Shareholders™ Equity 
 Preferred Stock 
 Dividends on the preferred stock, if declared, accrue and are 
payable quarterly, in arrears. 
 For each issuance, BB&T issued 
depositary shares, each of which represents a fractional ownershi
p interest in a share of the Co
mpany™s preferred stock.  The 
preferred stock has no stated maturity and redemption is solely at the option of the Company in whole, but not in part, upon 
the occurrence of a regulatory capital treatment event, as defined.
  In addition, the preferred st
ock may be redeemed in whole 
or in part, on any dividend payment date after five years from the date of issuance.  Under current rules, any redemption of 
the preferred stock is subject to prior approval of the FRB.  The preferred stock is not subject to any sinking fund or other 
obligations of the Company. 
The following table presents a 
summary of the preferred stoc
k as of December 31, 2012: 
     Issuance
Liquidation 
 Net 
Dividend 
  Issue
 Date
Amount 
 Proceeds 
Rate 
      (Dollars in millions) 
    Series D Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock 
5/1/12
$ 575 
 $  559 
5.850 
%  Series E Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock 
7/31/12
  1,150 
   1,120 
5.625 
   Series F Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock 
10/31/12
  450 
   437 
5.200 
      $ 2,175 
 $  2,116 
   Equity-Based Plans  
At December 31, 2012, BB&T had options, rest
ricted shares and restricted share units
 outstanding from the following equity-
based compensation plans: the 2012 Plan, the 2004 Plan, the Om
nibus Plan, the Directors™ Plan
, and a plan assumed from an 
acquired entity.  BB&T™s shareholders have approved all equity
-based compensation plans with the exception of the plan 
assumed from an acquired entity.  As of December 31, 2012, the 2012 Plan is the only plan that has shares available for 
future grants.  The 2012 and 
2004 Plans allow for accelerated 
vesting of awards for holder
s who retire and have met all 
retirement eligibility requirements and in connection with certain other events.     
BB&T™s 2012 and 2004 Plans are intended to assist the Co
mpany in recruiting and retaining employees, directors and 
independent contractors and to associate the interests of eligib
le participants with those of BB&T and its shareholders.  At 
December 31, 2012, there were 30.6 million 
non-qualified and incen
tive stock options at exercise 
prices ranging 
from $16.88 
to $44.20, 13.9 million restricted shares and restricted share units outstanding under the 2004 Plan and 110 thousand 
restricted share units outstanding under the 2012 Plan.  Awards outstanding under the 2004 and 2012 Plans vest as follows: 
(1) those granted prior to 2010 generally vest over five years 
and (2) those granted after 2009 generally vest over four years.
  Options outstanding ha
ve a ten year term.  At December 
31, 2012, there were no shares availabl
e for future grants under the 
2004 Plan and 34.9 million shares available for future grants under the 2012 Plan.  
At December 31, 2012, 14.7 mil
lion non-qualified and qualified st
ock options at prices ranging 
from $32.66 to $43.25 were 
outstanding under the Omnibus Plan.  All options under this plan are fully vested and have a ten year term. 

BB&T measures the fair value of each option award on the date
 of grant using the Black-Scho
les option-pricing model with 
the following weighted average assumptions used for grants aw
arded in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.  Substantially all 
of BB&T™s option awards are gran
ted in February of each year: 
     December 31,
      2012
2011 
 2010 
  Assumptions: 
             Risk-free interest rate 
  1.5 
%   1.7 
%    2.0 
%    Dividend yield 
  4.4 
   3.5 
    5.4 
    Volatility factor 
  33.0 
   37.2 
    36.0 
    Expected life 
  7.0 
yrs 
  7.4 
yrs 
   7.2 
yrs 
  Fair value of options per share 
$ 6.07 
 $ 7.45 
  $  5.60 
  BB&T determines the assumptions used in the Black-Scholes optio
n pricing model as follows: the risk-free interest rate is 
based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of the grant; the dividend yield is based on the historical divide
nd 
yield of BB&T™s stock, adjusted to reflect the expected divi
dend yield over the expected life of the option; the volatility 
factor is based on the historical volatility of BB&T™s stock, 
adjusted to reflect the ways in which current information 
  113 
 indicates that the future is reasonably e
xpected to differ from the past; and the weig
hted-average expected life is based on th
e historical behavior of employees related to exercises, forfeitures and cancellations. 
 BB&T measures the fair value of restricted
 shares based on the price of BB&T™s co
mmon stock on the grant date and the fair 
value of restricted share units based on the price of BB&T™s common stock on the grant date less the present value of 
expected dividends that are foregone during the vesting period. 
 A summary of selected data related to BB&T™s equity-based compensation costs follows: 
      Years Ended December 31,
      2012 
  2011  
 2010  
      (Dollars in millions)
   Equity-based compensation expense 
$  97 
 $  98$ 79  Income tax benefit from equity-based compensation expense 
  36 
   36  30  Intrinsic value of options exercised an
d RSUs that vested during the year 
  62 
   54  22  Grant date fair value of equity-based awards that vested during the year 
  88 
   76  39                 December 31, 
         2012  
 2011  
         (Dollars in millions)
  Unrecognized compensation cost re
lated to equity-based awards 
  $  98$ 109
  Weighted-average life over which compensation co
st is expected to be recognized (years) 
   2.0
  2.6
  The following table details the activity during 2012 related to stock options awarded by BB&T: 
               Wtd. Avg. 
     Wtd. Avg. 
 Aggregate 
 Remaining 
     Exercise 
 Intrinsic 
 Contractual 
    Options
Price
 Value 
  Life 
    (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)
   Outstanding at January 1, 2012 
 45,384,554 
$ 34.42 
         Granted 
 4,686,780 
  30.09 
         Exercised 
 (1,345,570)
  23.70 
         Forfeited or expired 
 (3,334,690)
  36.35 
        Outstanding at December 31, 2012 
 45,391,074 
  34.15 
 $  37 
  4.3 
yrs  Exercisable at December 31, 2012 
 34,229,207 
  36.06 
   18 
  3.2 
   Exercisable and expected to
 vest at December 31, 2012 
 44,678,275 
$ 34.25 
 $  36 
  4.3 
   The following table details the activity related to restrict
ed shares and restricted sh
are units awarded by BB&T: 
                     Wtd. Avg. 
          Grant Date 
        Shares/Units
  Fair Value
  Nonvested at January 1, 2012 
 13,462,630 
 $ 19.47 
   Granted 
 2,614,405 
   25.79 
   Vested 
 (1,812,225)
   30.60 
   Forfeited 
 (333,986)
   19.24 
  Nonvested at December 31, 2012 
 13,930,824 
 $ 19.26 
 At December 31, 2012, BB&T™s restricted sh
ares and restricted share units had a we
ighted-average life of 1.6 years.  At 
December 31, 2012, management estimates th
at 12.5 million restricted shares and 
restricted share units will vest over a 
weighted-average life of 1.7 years. 
Share Repurchase Activity 
At December 31, 2012, BB&T was au
thorized to repurchase an additional 44 mi
llion shares under the June 27, 2006 Board 
of Directors™ authorization.  No shares of common stock were repurchased under this plan during 2012, 2011 or 2010. 
  114 
 NOTE 12.  Accumulated Other Co
mprehensive Income (Loss) 
 The balances in AOCI are shown in the following table:
      December 31, 2012
December 31, 2011 
      Deferred 
After- 
  Deferred 
After- 
     Pre-Tax
Tax Expense
Tax 
Pre-Tax 
 Tax Expense
Tax 
     Amount
(Benefit)
Amount 
Amount 
 (Benefit)
Amount 
     (Dollars in millions)
   Unrecognized net pension and postretirement costs
$ (1,146)
$ (432)
$ (714)
$ (965)
 $  (362)
$ (603)
  Unrealized net gains (losses) on cash flow hedges 
  (277)
  (104)
  (173)
  (254)
   (95)
  (159)
  Unrealized net gains (losses) on securities  
                available for sale  
  960 
  362 
  598
  421 
   158 
  263
  FDIC™s share of unrealized (gains) losses on  
                securities available for sale under loss  
                share agreements   
  (410)
  (154)
  (256)
  (311)
   (116)
  (195)
  Other, net 
  (30)
  (16)
  (14)
  (37)
   (18)
  (19)
    Total  
$ (903)
$ (344)
$ (559)
$ (1,146)
 $  (433)
$ (713)
 As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, unreal
ized net losses on securities available for sale, excluding covered securities, 
included $11 million and $55 million, respectively, of pre-tax losses related to other-than-temporarily impaired non-agency 
RMBS where a portion of the loss was recognized in net income. 
NOTE 13.  Income Taxes
  The provision for income taxes comprised the following: 
                      Years Ended December 31,
        2012
 2011
  2010 
        (Dollars in millions)
   Current expense:
           Federal 
$ 252 
$  83 
 $ 161 
   State   67 
  26 
   18 
   Foreign 
  2   2    2   Total current expense 
  321 
  111 
   181 
  Deferred expense (benefit): 
          Federal 
  417 
  163 
   (65)
   State   26 
  22 
   (1)
  Total deferred expense (benefit) 
  443 
  185 
   (66)
  Provision for income taxes 
$ 764 
$  296 
 $ 115 
 The foreign income tax expense is related to income generated on
 assets controlled by a foreign subsidiary of Branch Bank.  
The reasons for the difference between the provision for income taxes and the amount computed by applying the statutory 
Federal income tax rate to income before income taxes were as follows: 
   115 
        Years Ended December 31,
         2012
 2011
  2010
        (Dollars in millions)
    Federal income taxes at statutory rate of 35% 
$ 977 
 $ 570 
  $  339 
   Increase (decrease) in provision for income taxes as a result of: 
             State income taxes, net of Federal tax benefit 
  61 
   31 
    11 
    Federal tax credits 
  (126)
   (115)
    (105)
    Tax exempt income 
  (133)
   (135)
    (125)
    Nontaxable gain on termination of leveraged lease 
  (12)
   (22)
    (2)
    Other, net 
  (3)
   (33)
    (3)
   Provision for income taxes 
$ 764 
 $ 296 
  $  115 
   Effective income tax rate 
  27.4 
%  18.2 
%    11.9 
% The tax effects of temporary differences th
at gave rise to significant portions of
 the net deferred tax 
assets and liabilities 
are reflected in the table below.  Net deferred tax assets are 
included in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
        December 31,
        2012
  2011 
        (Dollars in millions)
   Deferred tax assets:
         ALLL 
$  771 
 $ 855 
   Postretirement plans 
  432 
   362 
   Equity-based compensation 
  144 
   130 
   Loan/securities basis difference 
  6    127 
   Foreclosed property write-downs 
  56 
   240 
   Net unrealized loss on cash flow hedges 
  105 
   95 
   Other 
  277 
   257 
  Total deferred tax assets 
  1,791 
   2,066 
  Deferred tax liabilities: 
        Net unrealized gain on securities available for sale 
  201 
   31 
   Lease financing 
  270 
   267 
   Prepaid pension plan expense 
  373 
   352 
   Loan fees and expenses 
  244 
   225 
   Depreciation   57 
   76 
   Identifiable intangible assets 
  161 
   92 
   Loan servicing rights 
  201 
   156 
   Derivatives and hedging 
  163 
   136 
   Other 
  70 
   89 
  Total deferred tax liabilities 
  1,740 
   1,424 
    Net deferred tax assets 
$  51 
 $ 642 
 On a periodic basis, BB&T evaluates its income tax positions based on tax laws and regulations and financial reporting 
considerations, and records adjustments as ap
propriate.  This evaluation takes into consideration the status of current taxing 
authorities™ examinations of BB&T™s tax retu
rns, recent positions taken by the taxing authorities on similar transactions, if 
any, and the overall tax environment in relation to tax-advantag
ed transactions.  The following table presents changes in 
unrecognized tax benefits for the years 
ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. 
   116 
        Years Ended December 31,
        2012
 2011
  2010 
        (Dollars in millions)
   Beginning balance of unrecognized tax benefits 
$ 301 
$  292 
 $ 179 
   Additions based on tax positions related to current year 
  14 
        Additions for tax positions of prior years 
    6       Settlements 
  (5)
  (1)
      Lapse of statute of limitations 
       (1)
   Unrecognized deferred tax bene
fits from business acquisitions
   (13)
  4    114 
  Ending balance of unrecognized tax benefits 
$ 297 
$  301 
 $ 292 
 As of December 31, 2012, BB&T had $297 m
illion of unrecognized Federa
l and state tax benefits that would have impacted 
the effective tax rate if recognized.  In addition, the Comp
any had $37 million and $39 million in liabilities for tax-related 
interest recorded on its Consolidated Bala
nce Sheets at December 31, 2012 and 2011, 
respectively.  Total interest, net of the 
Federal benefit, related to unrecognized tax benefits recognized in the 2012, 2011 and 2010 Consolidated Statements of 
Income was immaterial.  BB&T classifies in
terest and penalties related to income taxes as a component of the provision for 
income taxes in the Consolid
ated Statements of Income. 
The IRS has completed its Federal income tax examinations of BB&T through 2007.  Various years remain subject to 
examination by state taxing authorities.  In
 February 2010, BB&T received an IRS stat
utory notice of deficiency for tax years 
2002-2007 asserting a liability for taxes, penalties and interest 
of approximately $892 million related to the disallowance of 
foreign tax credits and other deductions claimed by a subsidiary in connection with a financing transaction.  BB&T paid the 

disputed tax, penalties and interest in March 2010 and filed a la
wsuit seeking a refund in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims.  
The Court has scheduled the trial to begin 
March 4, 2013.  BB&T recorded a receivable 
in other assets for the amount of this 
payment, less the reserve consid
ered necessary in accordance w
ith applicable income tax accou
nting guidance.  On February 
11, 2013, the U.S. Tax Court issued an adverse opinion in a case between the Bank of New York Mellon Corporation and the 
IRS involving a transaction with a structure similar to BB&T™s 
financing transaction.  BB&T has confidence in its position 
because, among other reasons, BB&T will raise 
arguments and issues in its case that we
re not considered by
 the Tax Court.  
Bank of New York Mellon has indicated it intends to appeal 
the decision.  Nonetheless, BB&T recognized a charge of 
approximately $281 million in the first quarter of 2013 as a re
sult of its consideration of this adverse decision.  As litigati
on progresses, it is reasonably possible changes in the reserve for uncertain tax positions could range from a decrease of $496 

million to an increase of $328 million within the next 12 months. 
  117 
 NOTE 14.  Benefit Plans 
 Defined Benefit Retirement Plans 
 BB&T provides a defined benefit retirement plan qualified under the Internal Revenue Code that covers most employees.  
Benefits are based on years of service, 
age at retirement and the employee's compen
sation during the five highest consecutive 
years of earnings within the last ten years of employment.
 In addition, supplemental retirement bene
fits are provided to certain key offi
cers under supplemental defined benefit 
executive retirement plans, which are not qualified under the Inte
rnal Revenue Code.  Although technically unfunded plans, a 
Rabbi Trust and insurance policies on the lives of the certain covered employees are available to finance future benefits.
 The following are the significan
t actuarial assumptions that were used to 
determine net periodic pension costs for the 
qualified pension plan: 
      December 31, 
      2012 
 2011  
 2010  
  Weighted average assumed discount rate 
 4.82 
%   5.52 
%   6.16 
%  Weighted average expected long-term 
rate of return on plan assets 
 8.00 
   8.00 
   8.00 
   Assumed long-term rate of annual compensation increases (1) 
 4.50 
   4.50 
   4.50 
  (1) 
Represents the rate to be achieved by 2015. 
The weighted average expected long
-term rate of return on plan assets represents
 the average rate of return expected to be 
earned on plan assets over the period the 
benefits included in the benefit obligation are to be paid.  In developing the expect
ed 
rate of return, BB&T considers long-term compound annualized returns of historical market data for each asset category, as 
well as historical actual returns on the plan assets.  Using th
is reference information, the Company develops forward-looking 
return expectations for each asset category 
and a weighted average expect
ed long-term rate of retu
rn for the plan based on 
target asset allocations contained in 
BB&T's Investment Policy Statement.  
 Financial data relative to the defined benefit pension plans is summarized in the following tables for the years indicated.  Th
e qualified pension plan prepaid asset is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as a component of other assets and the 
nonqualified pension plans accrued liability is recorded on 
the Consolidated Balance Sheets as a component of other 
liabilities.  The data is calculated using an 
actuarial measurement date of December 31.
        Years Ended December 31,
       2012 
 2011  
 2010  
       (Dollars in millions)
   Net Periodic Pension Cost: 
          Service cost  
$ 120 
$  105 
 $ 83 
   Interest cost  
  110 
  103 
   93 
   Estimated return on plan assets  
  (200)
  (197)
   (178)
   Net amortization and othe
r   76 
  34 
   24 
    Net periodic benefit cost  
  106 
  45 
   22 
           Pre-Tax Amounts Recognized in Total Comprehensive Income: 
       Net actuarial loss (gain) 
  270 
  388 
   133 
   Net amortization 
  (76)
  (34)
   (24)
    Net amount recognized in OCI 
  194 
  354 
   109 
     Total net periodic pension costs (income) recognized in 
          total comprehensive income, pre-tax 
$ 300 
$  399 
 $ 131 
  The following are the significant act
uarial assumptions that were used to determine benefit obligations: 
                 December 31, 
       2012  
 2011  
  Weighted average assumed discount rate 
4.25 
%  4.82 
%  Assumed rate of annual compensation increases (1) 
4.50 
  4.50 
  (1) 
Represents the rate to be achieved by 2015. 
   118 
      Qualified Pension Plan 
 Nonqualified Pension Plans 
      Years Ended December 31, 
 Years Ended December 31, 
     2012  
2011 
 2012 
 2011 
     (Dollars in millions)
   Projected benefit obligation, January 1, 
$ 2,055 
$ 1,696 
$ 207 
 $ 182 
   Service cost 
 113 
 99 
  7    6    Interest cost 
 100 
 93 
  10 
   10 
   Actuarial (gain) loss 
 296 
 218 
  70 
   17 
    Benefits paid 
 (57)
 (51)
  (7)
   (8)
   Acquisitions 
 41 
        Projected benefit oblig
ation, December 31, 
$ 2,548 
$ 2,055 
$ 287 
 $ 207 
  Accumulated benefit ob
ligation, December 31, 
$ 2,166 
$ 1,784 
$ 213 
 $ 178 
       Qualified Pension Plan
 Nonqualified Pension Plans
      Years Ended December 31, 
 Years Ended December 31, 
     2012 
2011 
 2012 
 2011 
     (Dollars in millions)
   Fair value of plan assets, January 1, 
$ 2,478 
$ 2,484 
$ Š  $ Š    Actual return on plan assets 
 295 
  45 
  Š    Š    Employer contributions 
 202 
 Š   7    8    Benefits paid 
 (57)
 (51)
  (7)
   (8)
   Acquisitions 
 34 
 Š   Š    Š   Fair value of plan assets, December 31, 
$ 2,952 
$ 2,478 
$ Š  $ Š   Funded status at end of year 
$ 404 
$ 423 
$ (287)
 $ (207)
  The following are the pre-tax amounts recognized in AOCI: 
                    Qualified Pension Plan 
 Nonqualified Pension Plans
      Years Ended December 31, 
 Years Ended December 31,
     2012 
2011 
 2012 
2011 
     (Dollars in millions)
   Prior service credit (cost) 
$ 1 $ 1  $ (1)
 $ (1)
  Net actuarial gain (loss) 
 (993)
 (864)
   (128)
  (63)
   Net amount recognize
d $ (992)
$ (863)
 $ (129)
 $ (64)
 The expected amortization of unrecognized
 prior service credit and unrecognized net actuarial losses for the qualified plan 
and nonqualified plans that are ex
pected to be amortized from AOCI into net pe
riodic pension cost during 2013 are reflected 
in the following table:  
    Qualified 
 Nonqualified
    Pension Plan
  Pension Plans
    (Dollars in millions)
  Prior service credit (cost) 
$ 1  $ Š   Net actuarial gain (loss) 
 (82)
  (12)
   Net amount expected to be amortized in 2013 
$ (81)
 $ (12)
 Employer contributions to the qualified pension plan are in amounts between the minimum required for funding standard 
accounts and the maximum amount deductible for federal income
 tax purposes.  Management is not required to make a 
contribution to the qualified pension plan during 2013; however, management elected to make a discretionary contribution of 
$270 million in the first quarter of 2013, and may make additional contributions in 2013 if determined appropriate.  For the 

nonqualified plans, the employer contributions are based on benefit payments. 
  119 
 The following table reflects the estimated be
nefit payments for the periods presented.
    Qualified 
 Nonqualified
   Pension Plan
  Pension Plans
   (Dollars in millions)
  2013 
$ 64 
 $ 9   2014 
 71 
  10 
  2015 
 78 
  11 
  2016 
 86 
  12 
  2017 
 94 
  13 
  2018-2022 
 613 
  83 
 BB&T's primary total return objective is to achieve return
s that, over the long term, will fund retirement liabilities and 
provide for the desired plan benefits in a manner that satisfies
 the fiduciary requirements of the Employee Retirement Income 
Security Act of 1974.  The plan assets have a long-term time ho
rizon that runs concurrent with
 the average life expectancy of 
the participants.  As such, the Plan can assume a time horizon
 that extends well beyond a full 
market cycle, and can assume 
an above-average level of risk, as measured by the standard devi
ation of annual return.  It is
 expected, however, that both 
professional investment management and sufficient portfolio diversification will smooth volatility and help to generate a 
reasonable consistency of return.  The investments are broadl
y diversified among economic sector, industry, quality and size 
in order to reduce risk and to produce incremental return.  Wi
thin approved guidelines and restrictions, investment managers 
have wide discretion over the timing and selection of individual investments.  
 BB&T periodically reviews its asset allocation and investment po
licy and makes changes to its target asset allocation.  BB&T 
has established guidelines within each asse
t category to ensure the appropriate balan
ce of risk and reward.  The current target
 asset allocations for the plan assets incl
ude a range of 40% to 52% for U.S. equity securities, 10% to 20% for international 
equity securities, 25% to 40% for fixed in
come securities, and 0% to 12% for alternative investments, which include real 
estate, hedge funds, private equities and commodities, w
ith any remainder to be held in cash equivalents. 
The fair value of BB&T's pension plan assets at December 31
, 2012 and 2011, by asset ca
tegory are reflected in the 
following tables.  The three level fair value hierarchy that desc
ribes the inputs used to measure these plan assets is defined 
in 
Note 18 "Fair Value Disclosures.ﬂ 
     December 31, 2012
 December 31, 2011 
     Total
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
Level 3 
 Total 
Level 1 
 Level 2 
Level 3 
     (Dollars in millions)
 (Dollars in millions) 
  Cash and cash-equivalents 
$ 89 
$ 89 
$ Š $ Š $ Š $ Š  $ Š $ Š   U.S. equity securities (1) 
 1,226 
 1,226 
 Š  Š  1,072 
 1,072 
  Š  Š   International equity securities (2) 
  570 
  462 
  108 
  Š   439 
  336 
   103 
  Š   Fixed income securities 
  951 
  126 
  825 
  Š   852 
  130 
   722 
  Š   Alternative investments 
  98 
  Š   Š   98 
  99 
  Š    Š   99 
   Total plan assets (3)
 $ 2,934 
$ 1,903 
$ 933 
$ 98 
$ 2,462 
$ 1,538 
 $ 825 
$ 99 
 (1) 
Includes 3.7 million and 3.6 million shares of BB&T common stock valued at $107 million and $92 million at December 
31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
(2) 
Includes a common/commingled fund that consists of assets from several accounts, pooled together, to reduce 
management and administration costs. 
(3) 
Excludes accrued income of $18 million and $16 mill
ion at December 31, 2012 
and 2011, respectively. 
   120 
 The following table presents the activity for Level 3 plan
 assets, all of which are in alternative investments: 
                   Years Ended December 31, 
      2012 
 2011 
 2010 
      (Dollars in millions) 
  Balance at January 1, 
$ 99 
 $ 124 
$ 92 
   Actual return on plan assets
   7    9   9    Purchases, sales and settlements
  (8)
  (34)
 23 
  Balance at December 31, 
$ 98 
 $ 99 
$ 124 
 Defined Contribution Plans 
BB&T offers a 401(k) Savings Plan and other defined contribution plans that permit employees to contribute from 1% to 
50% of their cash compensation.  For full-time employees who are 21 years of age or older with one year or more of service, 
BB&T makes matching contributions of up to 6% of the employee's compensation.  BB&T's contribution to the 401(k) 
Savings Plan and nonqualified defined contribution plans totaled $97 million, $85 million and $83 million for the years 
ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, resp
ectively.  BB&T also offers defined 
contribution plans to
 certain employees 
of subsidiaries who do not participate in the 401(k) Savings Plan.   
Other benefits 
There are various other employment contracts, deferred compensation arrangements and covenants not to compete with 
selected members of management and certain retirees.  In add
ition, BB&T sponsors a plan which provides certain retirees 
with a subsidy for purchasing health care
 and life insurance.  In 2004, BB&T amended this plan to eliminate the subsidy for 
those employees retiring after December 31, 2004.  BB&T also 
reduced the subsidy paid to 
employees who retired on or 
before December 31, 2004, were age 55 y
ears or older, and had at least ten year
s of service.  For those employees, the 
subsidy is based upon years of service of
 the employee at the time of retirement. 
 These plans and their obligations are not 
material to BB&T™s financial statements.
 NOTE 15.  Commitments and Contingencies 
 BB&T utilizes a variety of financial instruments to meet the fina
ncing needs of clients and to reduce exposure to fluctuations 
in interest rates.  These financial instruments include commitmen
ts to extend credit, letters of
 credit and financial guarantee
s and derivatives.  BB&T also has commitments to fund certain affordable housing investments and contingent liabilities 
related to certain sold loans.
 Commitments to extend, originate or purc
hase credit are primarily lines of cred
it to businesses and consumers and have 
specified rates and maturity dates.  Ma
ny of these commitments also have adve
rse change clauses, which allow BB&T to 
cancel the commitment due to deterioration in the borrowers™ creditworthiness.
  The following table presents
 a summary of certain commitments and contingencies: 
       December 31,
        2012
  2011 
        (Dollars in millions)
   Letters of credit and financial guarantees written 
$  5,164 
 $ 6,095 
  Carrying amount of the liability for letter of credit guarantees 
  30 
   27 
               Investments related to affordable housing and historic building rehabilitation projects 
  1,223 
   1,159 
  Amount of future funding commitments included in investments related to affordable 
        housing and historic rehabilitation projects 
  461 
   394 
  Lending exposure to these affordable housing projects 
  87 
   76 
 Tax credits subject to recapture rela
ted to affordable housing projects 
  193 
   161 
              Investments in private equity and similar investments 
  323 
   261 
  Future funding commitments to private equity and similar investments 
  129 
   129 
 Letters of credit and financial guarantees written are 
unconditional commitments issued by BB&T to guarantee the 
performance of a customer to a third part
y.  These guarantees are pr
imarily issued to support public and private borrowing 
arrangements, including commercial paper issuance, bond financing and similar transactions, the majority of which are to tax 
  121 
 exempt entities.  The credit risk involved in the issuance of these guarantees is essentially the same as that involved in 
extending loans to clients and as such, the in
struments are collateralized when necessary.   
BB&T invests in certain affordable housing and historic build
ing rehabilitation projects throughout its market area as a 
means of supporting local comm
unities, and receives tax credits related to th
ese investments.  BB&T typically acts as a 
limited partner in these investments and does not exert control over the operating or financial policies of the partnerships.  
Branch Bank typically provides financing during the construction and development of the properties; however, permanent 
financing is generally obtained from independent third parties upon completion of a project.  Tax credits are subject to 
recapture by taxing authorities based on 
compliance features required to be met 
at the project level.  BB&T™s maximum 
potential exposure to losses relative to investments in VIEs is 
generally limited to the sum of the outstanding balance, future
 funding commitments and any related loans to the entity.  Loan
s to these entities are underwritten in substantially the same 
manner as are other loans and are generally secured.  
BB&T has investments in and future funding commitments to certain private equity and similar investments.  BB&T™s risk 
exposure relating to such commitments is generally limited to the amount of investments and future funding commitments 
made. 
A derivative is a financial instrument that derives its cash flows, and therefore its value, by reference to an underlying 
instrument, index or interest rate.  For additional disclosures 
related to BB&T™s derivatives refer to Note 19 ﬁDerivative 
Financial Instruments.ﬂ 
BB&T has sold certain mortgage-related loans that contain recourse provisions.  These provisions generally require BB&T to 
reimburse the investor for a share of any loss that is incurred 
after the disposal of the property.  BB&T also issues standard 
representations and warranties related to mortgage loan sales 
to GSEs.  Refer to Note 7 ﬁL
oan Servicingﬂ for additional 
disclosures related to these exposures.
 In the ordinary course of business, BB&T indemnifies its officer
s and directors to the fullest extent permitted by law against 
liabilities arising from pending litigation.  BB&T also issues
 standard representations an
d warranties in underwriting 
agreements, merger and acquisition agreements, loan sale
s, brokerage activities and other similar arrangements.  
Counterparties in many of these indemnification arrangements
 provide similar indemnifications to BB&T.  Although these 
agreements often do not specify limitations, BB&T does not be
lieve that any payments related to these guarantees would 
materially change the financial position or results of operations of BB&T. 
Legal Proceedings 
 The nature of the business of BB&T™s banking and other subsidiaries ordinarily results in a certain amount of claims, 
litigation, investigations and legal and administrative cases and 
proceedings, all of which are c
onsidered incidental to the 
normal conduct of business.  BB&T believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against it in its currently 

outstanding legal proceedings and, with respect to such legal proceedings, intends to continue to defend itself vigorously, 
litigating or settling cases according to management™s judgmen
t as to what is in the best interests of BB&T and its 
shareholders.
 The Company was a defendant in three separate cases primarily challenging the Company™s daily ordering of debit 
transactions posted to customer checking ac
counts for the period from 2003 to 2010.  The plaintiffs requested class action 
treatment; however, no class was certified.  The court initia
lly denied motions by the Comp
any to dismiss these cases and 
compel them to be submitted to individual arbitration.  Th
e Company then filed appeals in all three matters.  There were 
numerous subsequent procedural developments.  These included an appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court in one matter which 
resulted in a November 2011 decision that benefited the Company and two decisions in July 2012 in two other matters by the 
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Ci
rcuit ordering arbitration.  Those latter 
two matters are now concluded.  The first 
remains pending and therefore, the issues raised by the motions and appeal in this one matter have not been finally decided.  
If the motions or any appeals are ultimately granted, they woul
d preclude class action treatment.  Even if such an appeal is 
denied, the Company believes it has meritorious defenses against 
this matter, including class certification.  In addition, no 
damages have been specified by the plaintiffs.  Because of th
ese circumstances, no specific loss or range of loss can currently
 be determined.
 On at least a quarterly basis, BB&T assesses its liabilities and 
contingencies in connection with
 outstanding legal proceedings
 utilizing the latest information available. 
 For those matters where it is probable 
that BB&T will incur a loss and the amount 
of the loss can be reasonably estimated, BB&T records a liability in its consolidated financial statements.  These legal 
reserves may be increased or decreased to 
reflect any relevant developments on at least a quarterly basis.  For other matters, 
where a loss is not probable or the amount of the loss is not estimable, BB&T has not accrued legal reserves.  While the 

outcome of legal proceedings is inherently uncertain, based 
on information currently ava
ilable, advice of counsel and 
  122 
 available insurance coverage, BB&T™s management believes that 
its established legal reserves are adequate and the liabilities 
arising from BB&T™s legal proceedings w
ill not have a material adverse effect 
on the consolidated financial position, 
consolidated results of operations or 
consolidated cash flows of BB&T.  Howeve
r, in the event of unexpected future 
developments, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of th
ese matters, if unfavorable, may be material to BB&T™s 
consolidated financial position, consolidated results of operations or consolidated cash flows.
 NOTE 16.  Regulatory Requiremen
ts and Other Restrictions 
Branch Bank and BB&T FSB are required by th
e FRB to maintain reserve balances in the form of vault cash or deposits with 
the FRB based on specified percentages of certain deposit types, subject to various adjustments.  At December 31, 2012, the 
net reserve requirement amounted to $266 million. 
Branch Bank is subject to laws and regulations that limit th
e amount of dividends it can pay.
  In addition, both BB&T and 
Branch Bank are subject to various regulatory restrictions re
lating to the payment of dividends, including requirements to 
maintain capital at or above regulatory minimums, and to re
main ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ under 
the prompt corrective action 
regulations.  BB&T does not expect that any of these laws, re
gulations or policies will materially affect the ability of Branch
 Bank to pay dividends. 
BB&T is subject to various regulatory capital requirements admi
nistered by the Federal banking agencies.  Failure to meet 
minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatoryŠa
nd possibly additional discretionaryŠactions by regulators 
that, if undertaken, could have a direct 
material effect on BB&T™s financial stat
ements.  Under capital adequacy guidelines 
and the regulatory framework for prompt co
rrective action, the Company must meet specific capital guidelines that involve 
quantitative measures of BB&T™s assets, liabilities and certain 
off-balance-sheet items calculated pursuant to regulatory 
directives.  BB&T™s capital amounts and classification also ar
e subject to qualitative judgment
s by the regulators about 
components, risk weightings and other factors.  BB&T is in full compliance with these requirements.  Banking regulations 
also identify five capital categories for insured deposito
ry institutions: well-capitalized, adequately capitalized, 
undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically un
dercapitalized.  At December 
31, 2012 and 2011, BB&T and 
Branch Bank were classified as ﬁwell-capitalized.ﬂ 
Quantitative measures established by regulation to ensure capital adequacy require BB&T to maintain minimum amounts and 
ratios of total and Tier 1 capital (as defined in the regulations
) to risk-weighted assets (as de
fined), and of Tier 1 capital 
to 
average tangible assets (leverage ratio). 
Risk-based capital ratios, which include Tier 1 Capital, Tota
l Capital and Tier 1 Common Equity, are calculated based on 
regulatory guidance related to the measurement of capital and 
risk-weighted assets.  BB&T reevaluated its process related to 
calculating risk-weighted assets 
and determined that certain ad
justments, primarily related to the presentation of certain 
unfunded lending commitments, were required in order to conform to regulatory guidance.  These adjustments resulted in an 
increase to risk-weighted assets and a decr
ease in BB&T™s risk-based capital ratios. 
     December 31, 2012 
 December 31, 2011 
    Actual Capital 
Capital Requirements 
Actual Capital 
 Capital Requirements 
    Ratio 
 Amount 
Minimum 
 Well-Capitalized
 Ratio 
 Amount 
 Minimum
Well-Capitalized
    (Dollars in millions)
Tier 1 Capital (1):
                 BB&T  11.0 
%  $  14,373 
$ 5,244 
$ 7,866
12.0 
%$ 14,913 
 $  4,980 
$ 7,470 
 Branch Bank 
 11.6 
    14,587 
  5,011 
  7,516
12.8 
   15,274 
   4,759 
  7,138 
Total Capital (1): 
                    BB&T  13.9 
    18,204 
  10,488 
  13,110
15.1 
   18,862 
   9,961 
  12,451 
 Branch Bank 
 13.4 
    16,809 
  10,022 
  12,527
15.1 
   17,915 
   9,517 
  11,897 
Leverage Capital: 
                    BB&T  8.2 
    14,373 
  7,001 
  8,751
9.0 
   14,913 
   6,614 
  8,267 
 Branch Bank 
 8.6 
    14,587 
  5,086 
  8,476
9.5 
   15,274 
   4,801 
  8,002 
(1) 
The Company has revised its calculation of risk-weigh
ted assets and adjusted the applicable ratios. 
As an approved seller/servicer, Branch Bank is required to maintain minimum levels of shareholders™ equity, as specified by 
various agencies, including the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, GNMA, FHLMC and FNMA.  
At December 31, 2012 and 2011, Branch Bank™s
 equity was above all required levels.  
At December 31, 2012 and 2011, BB&T had segregated cash depo
sits totaling $36 million and $20
 million, respectively.  
These deposits relate to monies held for the exclusive benef
it of clients, primarily at BB&T
™s broker/dealer subsidiaries.
   123 
 NOTE 17.  Parent Company Financial Statements 
  Parent Company  Condensed Balance Sheets
  December 31, 2
012 and 2011
                 2012 
 2011
      (Dollars in millions) 
  Assets:         Cash and due from banks 
$ 4,239 
 $  3,564 
   Securities available for sale at fair value 
  27 
   29 
   Securities held to maturity 
  37 
   40 
   Investment in banking subsidiaries 
  21,189 
   20,853 
   Investment in other subsidiaries 
  1,837 
   1,572 
   Advances to / receivables from banking subsidiaries 
  44 
   615 
   Advances to / receivables 
from other subsidiaries 
  2,408 
   2,392 
   Other assets 
  246 
   268 
    Total assets 
$ 30,027 
 $  29,333 
          Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity: 
        Short-term borrowed funds 
$ 37 
 $  296 
   Short-term borrowed funds due to subsidiaries 
  -    72 
   Dividends payable 
  170 
   112 
   Accounts payable and other liabilities 
  30 
   116 
   Long-term debt 
  8,567 
   7,930 
   Long-term debt due to subsidiaries 
  -    3,327 
    Total liabilities 
  8,804 
   11,853 
    Total shareholders' equity 
  21,223 
   17,480 
    Total liabilities and shareholders' equity 
$ 30,027 
 $  29,333 
    124 
  Parent Company  Condensed Income Statements
  Years Ended December 31
, 2012, 2011 and 2010
                2012  
2011  
 2010  
     (Dollars in millions)
   Income: 
         Dividends from banking subsidiaries 
$ 1,720 
$ 620 
 $ 345 
   Dividends from other subsidiaries 
 81 
  278 
   321 
   Interest and other income from subsidiaries 
 79 
  107 
   138 
   Other income 
 1   8    4     Total income 
 1,881 
  1,013 
   808 
  Expenses: 
         Interest expense 
 239 
  334 
   445 
   Other expenses 
 52 
  34 
   38 
    Total expenses 
 291 
  368 
   483 
          Income before income taxes and equity in  
         undistributed earnings of subsidiaries 
 1,590 
  645 
   325 
  Income tax benefit 
 20 
  26 
   60 
  Income before equity in undistributed earnings of subsidiaries 
 1,610 
  671 
   385 
  Equity in undistributed earnings of subsidiaries in excess of 
         dividends from subsidiaries 
 418 
  661 
   469 
  Net income  
 2,028 
  1,332 
   854 
          Noncontrolling interests 
 49 
  43 
   38 
  Dividends on preferred stock 
 63 
       Net income available to common shareholders 
$ 1,916 
$ 1,289 
 $ 816 
   Parent Company   Condensed Statements of Comprehensive Income 
  Years Ended December 31
, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
                        2012  
  2011  
  2010  
        (Dollars in millions) 
  Net Income  
$ 2,028 
$  1,332 
 $ 854 
  OCI, Net of Tax: 
          Unrealized net holding gains (losses) arising during the period on  
           securities available for sale 
       7    Change in unrecognized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges 
  (2)
  (1)
      Other, net 
  1   (8)
       Total OCI 
  (1)
  (9)
   7     Total comprehensive income 
$ 2,027 
$  1,323 
 $ 861 
                           Income Tax Effect of Items Included in OCI 
         Unrealized net holding gains (losses) arising during the period on
            securities available for sale 
$ $   $ 3    Change in unrecognized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges
   (1)
        Other, net
     (4)
       125 
  Parent Company  Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
  Years Ended December 31
, 2012, 2011 and 2010
  .                    2012  
 2011  
 2010  
        (Dollars in millions) 
  Cash Flows From Operating Activities: 
          Net income  
$ 2,028 
$ 1,332 
 $ 854 
   Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by 
           operating activities: 
           Equity in earnings of subsidiaries in excess of dividends 
            from subsidiaries 
  (418)
  (661)
   (469)
    Net change in other assets 
  265 
  63 
   (147)
    Net change in accounts payable and accrued liabilities 
  (71)
  (3)
   (24)
    Other, net 
  (228)
  20 
   (65)
     Net cash from operating activities 
  1,576 
  751 
   149 
             Cash Flows From Investing Activities: 
          Proceeds from sales, calls and matur
ities of securities available for sale
  26 
  49 
   87 
   Purchases of securities available for sale 
  (26)
  (48)
   (8)
   Proceeds from maturities, calls 
and paydowns of securities held 
           to maturity 
  4   24 
      Investment in subsidiaries 
  (30)
  (12)
   (113)
   Advances to subsidiaries 
  (10,785)
  (20,306)
   (37,341)
   Proceeds from repayment of 
advances to subsidiaries 
  11,325 
  22,637 
   37,028 
   Net cash from business combinations 
  51 
         Net cash from investing activities 
  565 
  2,344 
   (347)
             Cash Flows From Financing Activities: 
          Net change in long-term debt 
  (2,764)
  1,121 
   765 
   Net change in shor
t-term borrowed funds 
  (259)
  (509)
   (198)
   Net change in advances from subsidiaries 
  (72)
  69 
   3    Net proceeds from common stock issue
d   15 
  22 
   110 
   Net proceeds from preferred stock issue
d   2,116 
        Cash dividends paid on common and preferred stock 
  (564)
  (446)
   (415)
   Other, net 
  62 
         Net cash from financing activities 
  (1,466)
  257 
   265 
             Net Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents 
  675 
  3,352 
   67 
  Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Year 
  3,564 
  212 
   145 
  Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year 
$ 4,239 
$ 3,564 
 $ 212 
   126 
 NOTE 18.  Fair Value Disclosures 
 BB&T carries various assets and liabilities at fair value based 
on applicable accounting standard
s, including prime residential
 mortgage and commercial mortgage loans originated as LHFS.  Accounting standards define fair value as the exchange price 
that would be received on the measurement da
te to sell an asset or the price paid to 
transfer a liability in the principal or m
ost 
advantageous market available to the entity in an orderly tr
ansaction between market participants.  These standards also 
established a three level fair value hierarchy that describes th
e inputs that are used to measure assets and liabilities.  Leve
l 1 
asset and liability fair values are based on quoted prices in
 active markets for identical asse
ts and liabilities.  Level 2 ass
et and liability fair values are based on observab
le inputs that include: quoted market pr
ices for similar assets or liabilities; quot
ed 
market prices that are not in an active ma
rket; or other inputs that are observable in
 the market and can be corroborated by 
observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.  Level 3 assets and liabilities are financ
ial instruments whose value is calculated by the use of pricing models and/or discounted cash flow methodologies, as well as 
financial instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation.  
These methodologies may result in a significant portion of the fair value being derived from unobservable data. 

 Assets and liabilities measured at fair valu
e on a recurring basis are summarized below: 
                   Fair Value Measurements for Assets and 
       Liabilities Measured on a  Recurring Basis 
     12/31/2012
Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
       (Dollars in millions) 
  Assets:    Trading securities  
$ 497 
$ 302 
$ 194 
$ 1    Securities available for sale: 
    GSE securities  290 
  290 
     RMBS issued by GSE  
 20,930 
  20,930 
     States and political subdivisions  
 2,011 
  2,011 
    Non-agency RMBS 
 312 
  312 
    Other securities  
 3  2  1      Covered securities  
 1,591 
  597 
 994 
   LHFS 
 3,761 
  3,761 
    Residential MSRs 
 627 
   627 
   Derivative assets: (1) 
    Interest rate contracts  
 1,446 
  1,391 
 55 
    Foreign exchange contracts  
 5   5     Private equity and similar investments (1)(2)  
 323 
   323 
    Total assets 
$ 31,796 
$ 304 
$ 29,492 
$ 2,000 
  Liabilities: 
   Derivative liabilities: (1) 
    Interest rate contracts  
$ 1,434 
$ $ 1,433 
$ 1     Foreign exchange contracts  
 4   4     Short-term borrowed funds (3)  
 98 
  98 
     Total liabilities  
$ 1,536 
$ $ 1,535 
$ 1     127 
      Fair Value Measurements for Assets and 
       Liabilities Measured on a  Recurring Basis 
     12/31/2011
Level 1 
 Level 2 
 Level 3 
       (Dollars in millions) 
  Assets:              Trading securities  
$ 534 
$ 298 
$ 235 
$ 1    Securities available for sale: 
    GSE securities  306 
  306 
     RMBS issued by GSE  
 18,132 
  18,132 
     States and political subdivisions  
 1,923 
  1,923 
     Non-agency RMBS 
 368 
  368 
     Other securities  
 7  6  1      Covered securities  
 1,577 
  593 
 984 
   LHFS 
 3,736 
  3,736 
    Residential MSRs  
 563 
   563 
   Derivative assets: (1)  
            Interest rate contracts  
 1,518 
 1  1,457 
 60 
    Foreign exchange contracts  
 7   7     Private equity and similar investments (1)(2)  
 261 
   261 
    Total assets 
$ 28,932 
$ 305 
$ 26,758 
$ 1,869 
          Liabilities: 
            Derivative liabilities: (1) 
             Interest rate contracts  
$ 1,498 
$ $ 1,497 
$ 1     Foreign exchange contracts  
 8   8     Short-term borrowed funds (3)  
 118 
  118 
     Total liabilities  
$ 1,624 
$ $ 1,623 
$ 1  (1) 
These amounts are reflected in other assets and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
(2) 
Based on an analysis of the nature and risks of these investments, BB&T has determined that presenting these 
investments as a single class is appropriate.  
(3) 
Short-term borrowed fund
s reflect securities sold short positions.  
The following discussion focuses on the valuation techniques and significant inputs used by BB&T in determining the Level 
2 and Level 3 fair values of each signi
ficant class of assets and liabilities. 
BB&T generally utilizes a third-party pricing service in determin
ing the fair value of its securities portfolio.  Fair value 
measurements are derived from market-bas
ed pricing matrices that were develope
d using observable inputs that include 
benchmark yields, benchmark securities, repo
rted trades, offers, bids, issuer spreads and broker quotes.  As described by 
security type below, additional inputs may be used, or some inputs may not be applicable.  In the event that market 
observable data was not available, which would generally occur due to the lack of an active market for a given security, the 
valuation of the security would be subjective and may involve substantial judgment by management. 
Specific valuation techniques and inputs used in determining th
e fair value of each significant class of assets and liabilities
 follows:  

Trading securities: 
Trading securities are composed of all types of debt 
and equity securities, but the majority consists of 
debt securities issued by the U.S. Treasury, GSEs, or states
 and political subdivisions.  The valuation techniques used for 
these investments are more
 fully discussed below. 
GSE securities and RMBS issued by GSE: 
These are debt securities issued by GSEs
.  GSE pass-through securities are valued 
using market-based pricing matrices that are based on observable inputs including benchmark TBA security pricing and yield 
curves that were estimated based on U.S.
 Treasury yields and certain floating rate
 indices.  The pricing matrices for these 
securities may also give consideration to pool-specific data 
supplied directly by the GSE.  GSE CMOs are valued using 
market-based pricing matrices th
at are based on observable inputs including of
fers, bids, reported trad
es, dealer quotes and 
market research reports, the characteristics of a specific tran
che, market convention prepayme
nt speeds and benchmark yield 
curves as described above. 
States and political subdivisions: 
These securities are valued using market-bas
ed pricing matrices that are based on 
observable inputs including MSRB reported trades, issuer spr
eads, material event notices 
and benchmark yield curves. 
  128 
 Non-agency RMBS: 
Pricing matrices for these secur
ities are based on observable inputs including offers, bids, reported 
trades, dealer quotes and market research
 reports, the characteristics of a specifi
c tranche, market convention prepayment 
speeds and benchmark yield curves as described above. 
Other securities: 
These securities consist primarily of mutual funds and 
corporate bonds.  These securities are valued based 
on a review of quoted market prices for assets as well as through the various other inputs discussed previously. 

Covered securities: 
Covered securities are covered by FDIC loss sharin
g agreements and consist of re-remic non-agency 
RMBS, municipal securities and non-agency RMBS.  Covered 
state and political subdivision securities and certain non-
agency RMBS are valued in a manner similar to the approach described above for these asset classes.  The re-remic non-
agency RMBS, which are categorized as Level 3, were valu
ed based on broker dealer quotes that reflected certain 
unobservable market inputs.  Sensitivity to changes in the fair 
value of covered securities is significantly offset by changes 
in BB&T™s indemnification asset from the FDIC.  Subject to cer
tain restrictions, the terms of the loss sharing agreement 
associated with these re-remic non-agency RMBS provide that 
Branch Bank will be reimbursed by the FDIC for 95% of any 
and all losses. 
LHFS: 
BB&T originates certain mortgage loans to be sold to inve
stors.  These loans are carried at fair value based on 
BB&T™s election of the Fair Value Option.  The fair value is prim
arily based on quoted market prices for securities backed by 
similar types of loans.  The changes in fair value of these asse
ts are largely driven by changes in interest rates subsequent t
o loan funding and changes in the fair value of servicing associated with the mortgage loan held for sale. 
Residential MSRs: 
BB&T estimates the fair value of residential MSRs 
using an OAS valuation model to project MSR cash 
flows over multiple interest rate scenarios, which are then di
scounted at risk-adjusted rates.  The OAS model considers 
portfolio characteristics, contractually specified servicing fe
es, prepayment assumptions, delinquency rates, late charges, 
other ancillary revenue, costs to service and other economic f
actors.  Fair value estimates and assumptions are compared to 
industry surveys, recent market activity, actual portfolio experience and, when available, other observable market data.  

Derivative assets and liabilities: 
BB&T uses derivatives to manage various financ
ial risks.  The fair values of derivative 
financial instruments are determined based on quoted market prices, dealer quotes and internal pricing models that are 
primarily sensitive to market observable data.  The fair values
 of interest rate lock commitments, which are related to 
mortgage loan commitments and are categori
zed as Level 3, are based on quoted mark
et prices adjusted for commitments that 
BB&T does not expect to fund and include the va
lue attributable to the net servicing fees.   
Private equity and similar investments: 
BB&T has private equity and similar invest
ments that are measured at fair value 
based on the investment™s net asset value.  In many cases th
ere are no observable market va
lues for these investments and 
therefore management must estimate the fair value based on 
a comparison of the operating pe
rformance of the company to 
multiples in the marketplace for similar entitie
s.  This analysis requires significant 
judgment and actual valu
es in a sale could 
differ materially from those estimated.  
Short-term borrowed funds: 
Short-term borrowed funds represent debt securitie
s sold short.  These are entered into through 
BB&T™s brokerage subsidiary.  These trades are executed as a 
hedging strategy for the purposes of supporting institutional 
and retail client trading activities. 
   129 
       Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs
                Private 
                Equity and
         Covered 
Residential 
 Net 
Similar 
  Year Ended December 31, 2012
 Trading 
Securities
MSRs  Derivatives 
Investments
       (Dollars in millions)
   Balance at January 1, 2012 
$ 1 $ 984 
$ 563 
 $  59 
$ 261 
  Total realized and unrea
lized gains (losses): 
         Included in earnings: 
          Interest income  
    48 
           Mortgage banking income 
      (32)
   458 
      Other noninterest income  
           21 
   Included in unrealized net holding gains (losses) 
          in OCI 
    88 
         Purchases 
 4          101 
  Issuances 
     270 
   308 
    Sales  (4)
         (59)
  Settlements 
   (126)
  (174)
   (771)
  (1)
 Balance at December 31, 2012 
$ 1 $ 994 
$ 627 
 $  54 
$ 323 
         Change in unrealized gains (lo
sses) included in earnings for 
        the period, attributable to assets and liabilities still held 
        at December 31, 2012 
$ $ 48 
$ (32)
 $  54 
$ 12 
        Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs
                     Private 
          States & 
     Equity and
          Political 
Other 
Covered 
Residential 
 Net 
Similar 
  Year Ended December 31, 2011
  Trading 
Subdivisions
Securities
Securities
MSRs 
 Derivatives
Investments
        (Dollars in millions)
   Balance at January 1, 2011 
 $ 11 
$ 119 
$ 7$ 954
$ 830 
 $  (25)
$ 266 
   Total realized and unrea
lized gains (losses): 
          Included in earnings: 
             Interest income  
         54           Mortgage banking income 
           (341)
   151 
       Other noninterest income  
   (3)
            64 
    Included in unrealized net holding 
             gains (losses) in OCI 
     (9)
  (1)
  24          Purchases  
   7              61 
   Issuances 
           225 
   110 
     Sales    (14)
             (112)
   Settlements 
     (53)
  (1)
  (48)
  (151)
   (177)
  (15)
   Transfers into Level 3 
                1    Transfers out of Level 3 
     (57)
  (5)
        (4)
  Balance at December 31, 2011 
 $ 1 $ $ $ 984
$ 563 
 $  59 
$ 261 
           Change in unrealized gains (losses) 
            included in earnings for the period, 
        attributable to assets and liabilities 
        still held at December 31, 2011 
 $ $ $ $ 54$ (341)
 $  59 
$ 39 
    130 
        Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs
                  Private 
          States & 
     Equity and
          Political 
Other 
Covered 
Residential 
 Net 
Similar 
  Year Ended December 31, 2010
  Trading 
Subdivisions
Securities
Securities
MSRs 
 Derivatives
Investments
        (Dollars in millions)
   Balance at January 1, 2010 
 $ 93 
$ 210 
$ 9$ 668
$ 832 
 $  (20)
$ 281 
   Total realized and unrea
lized gains (losses): 
          Included in earnings: 
             Interest income  
         61           Mortgage banking income 
           (138)
   246 
       Other noninterest income  
   (1)
            35 
    Included in OCI 
     12 
  (1)
  225
          Purchases, issuances and settlements 
   (5)
  (87)
  (1)
    136 
   (251)
  (50)
   Transfers in and/or out of Level 3 
   (76)
  (16)
            Balance at December 31, 2010 
 $ 11 
$ 119 
$ 7$ 954
$ 830 
 $  (25)
$ 266 
           Change in unrealized gains (losses) 
            included in earnings for the period, 
        attributable to assets and liabilities 
        still held at December 31, 2010 
 $ (2)
$ $ $ 61$ (138)
 $  (25)
$ 9  BB&T™s policy is to recognize transfers in and transfers out of Levels 1, 2 and 3 as of the end of a reporting period.  During 
the year ended December 31, 2012, BB&T did 
not have any material transfer of secu
rities between levels in the fair value 
hierarchy.  During the year ended Decembe
r 31, 2011, BB&T transferred 
certain state and political 
subdivision securities out 
of Level 3 as a result of management™s decision to reclassify them from available for sale to held to maturity classification, 
which is not recorded at fair value.  
During the year ended December 31, 2010, tr
ansfers from Level 3 to Level 2 were the 
result of increased observable market activity for these securities.
  There were no gains or losses recognized as a result of t
he transfers of secu
rities during the years ended December 
31, 2012, 2011 or 2010.  There were no sign
ificant transfers of 
securities between Level 1 and Level 2 for the 
years ended December 31, 
2012, 2011 or 2010. The majority of BB&T™s private equity and similar investment
s are in SBIC qualified funds.  The significant investment 
strategies for these funds primarily focus on equity and subordinated debt investments in privately-held middle market 
companies.  The majority of these investments are not redeemable and distributions are received as the underlying assets of 
the funds liquidate.  The timing of distributions, which are expected to occur on various dates through 2025, is uncertain and 
dependent on various events such as 
recapitalizations, refinance transactions
 and ownership changes among others.  
Excluding the investment of future funds, BB&T estimates these investments have a weighted average remaining life of 
approximately three years; howev
er, the timing and amount of distributions ma
y vary significantly.  As of December 31, 
2012, restrictions on the ability to sell the investments include, but are not limited to, consent of a majority member or 
general partner approval for transfer of ownership.  BB&T™s investments are spread over numerous privately-held middle 
market companies, and thus the sensitivity to a change in fair
 value for any single investment is limited.  The significant 
unobservable inputs for these investments are EBITDA multiples th
at ranged from 5x to 11x, with a weighted average of 7x, 
at December 31, 2012. 
 The following table details the fair value and unpaid principal bala
nce of LHFS that were elected 
to be carried at fair value: 
                        December 31,
      2012 
2011  
       Aggregate
   Aggregate
         Unpaid
   Unpaid
        Fair
Principal
  Fair 
 Principal
        Value
Balance
 Difference
Value 
 Balance
 Difference
      (Dollars in millions)
   LHFS reported at fair value (1) 
$ 3,761 
$ 3,652 
$ 109 
$ 3,736 
$  3,652 
$ 84 
 (1) 
The change in fair value is reflected in mortgage banking 
income.  Excluding government gu
aranteed loans, there were 
no nonaccrual loans or 
loans 90 days or more past 
due and still accruing interest. 
   131 
 The following tables provide information about certain financia
l assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis: 
                     December 31, 
          2012 
2011  
          (Dollars in millions) 
  Assets that are still held (1):
           Impaired loans, excluding covered 
   $  137 
$ 389 
   Foreclosed real estate, excluding covered 
     107 
  536 
               Years Ended December 31,
      2012 
  2011  
2010  
      (Dollars in millions)
   Negative valuation adjustments recognized (1): 
        Impaired loans, excluding covered 
$  109 
 $  348 
$ 602 
   Foreclosed real estate, excluding covered 
  180 
   550 
  496 
 (1) 
Classified as level 3 assets. 
Additionally, accounting standards require th
e disclosure of the estimated fair valu
e of financial instruments that are not 
recorded at fair value.  A financial instrument is defined as cas
h, evidence of an ownership interest in an entity or a contrac
t that creates a contractual obligation or right to deliver or re
ceive cash or another financial instrument from a second entity.
  For the financial instruments that BB&T does not record at fair 
value, estimates of fair value are made at a point in time, 
based on relevant market data and information about the financial instrument.  Fair values are calculated based on the value 
of one trading unit without regard to any premium or discount that may result from concentrations of ownership of a financial 
instrument, possible tax ramifications, estimated transaction costs that may result from bulk sales or the relationship between
 various financial instruments.  No readily available market exists for a significant portion of BB&T™s financial instruments.  

Fair value estimates for these instruments are based on cu
rrent economic conditions, currency and interest rate risk 
characteristics, loss experience and other factors.  Many of 
these estimates involve uncertai
nties and matters of significant 
judgment and cannot be determined with precision.  Therefore,
 the calculated fair value estimates in many instances cannot 
be substantiated by comparison to independent markets and, in many cases, may not be realizable in a current sale of the 
instrument.  In addition, changes in assumptions could significantly affect these fair value estimates.  The following methods 
and assumptions were used by BB&T in estimating th
e fair value of these financial instruments. 
Cash and cash equivalents and segregated cash due from banks
: For these short-term instruments, the carrying amounts are a 
reasonable estimate of fair values.   
Securities held to maturity:
 The fair values of securities held to maturity 
are based on a market approach using observable 
inputs such as benchmark yields and securities, TBA prices, repo
rted trades, issuer spreads, cu
rrent bids and offers, monthly 
payment information and co
llateral performance. 
Loans receivable
: The fair values for loans are estimated using disc
ounted cash flow analyses, 
applying interest rates 
currently being offered for loans with similar terms and cr
edit quality, which are deemed to be indicative of orderly 
transactions in the current market.  For commercial loans and 
leases, discount rates may be adjusted to address additional 
credit risk on lower risk grade instruments.  For residential mortgage and other consumer loans, internal prepayment risk 
models are used to adjust contractual cash flows.  Loans ar
e aggregated into pools of similar terms and credit quality and 
discounted using a LIBOR based rate.  The carrying amounts of accrued interest approximate fair values. 
FDIC loss share receivable
: The fair value of the FDIC loss share receiva
ble was estimated using 
discounted cash flow 
analyses, applying a risk free interest rate that is adjusted for the uncertainty in the timing and amount of these cash flows.
  The expected cash flows to/fro
m the FDIC related to loans were estimated using the same assumptions that were used in 
determining the accounting values for the related loans.  The e
xpected cash flows to/from the 
FDIC related to securities are 
based upon the fair value of the related se
curities and the payment that would be required if the securities were sold for that
 amount.  The FDIC loss share agreements are not transferrable 
and, accordingly, there is no market for this receivable. 
Deposit liabilities
: The fair values for demand deposits, interest-checking accounts, savings accounts and certain money 
market accounts are, by definition, equal to the amount payable on demand.  Fair values for CDs are estimated using a 
discounted cash flow calculation that applies 
current interest rates to aggregate expected maturities.  In addition, nonfinanci
al instruments such as core deposit intangibles are not recorded at
 fair value.  BB&T has developed long-term relationships with 
its customers through its deposit base and, in the opinion of management, these items add significant value to BB&T. 
  132 
 Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repu
rchase agreements and short-term borrowed funds
: The carrying 
amounts of Federal funds purchased, borrowings under repurchase agreements and short-term borrowed funds approximate 
their fair values. 
Long-term debt
: The fair values of long-term debt are estimated based on
 quoted market prices for th
e instrument if available, 
or for similar instruments if not available, or by using discounted cash flow analyses, based on BB&T™s current incremental 
borrowing rates for similar types of instruments. 
Contractual commitments
: The fair values of commitments are estimated 
using the fees charged to enter into similar 
agreements, taking into account the remain
ing terms of the agreements and the presen
t creditworthiness of the counterparties.  
For fixed-rate loan commitments, fair va
lues also consider the difference between 
current levels of interest rates and the 
committed rates.  The fair values of guarantees and lette
rs of credit are estimated ba
sed on the counterparties™ 
creditworthiness and average default rates for loan products w
ith similar risks.  These respective fair value measurements 
would be categorized within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. 
 Financial assets and liabilities not recorded
 at fair value are summarized below: 
      Carrying
Total 
      December 31, 2012
  Amount
Fair Value 
 Level 2 
 Level 3
      (Dollars in millions)
   Financial assets: 
          Securities held to maturity (1) 
$ 13,594 
$ 13,848 
 $  13,810 
 $ 38 
   Loans and leases, net of ALLL excluding covered loans 
  109,419 
  109,621 
      109,621 
   Covered loans, net of ALLL 
  3,166 
  3,661 
      3,661 
   FDIC loss share receivable 
  479 
  149 
      149 
                 Financial liabilities: 
             Deposits  
  133,075 
  133,377 
   133,377 
      Long-term debt  
  19,114 
  20,676 
   20,676 
          Carrying
     December 31, 2011
  Amount
  Fair Value 
      (Dollars in millions)
   Financial assets: 
        Securities held to maturity (1) 
 $  14,094 
 $ 14,098 
   Loans and leases, net of ALLL, excluding covered loans 
   100,495 
   100,036 
   Covered loans, net of ALLL 
   4,718 
   5,706 
   FDIC loss share receivable 
   1,100 
   910 
             Financial liabilities: 
         Deposits  
   124,939 
   125,317 
   Long-term debt  
   21,803 
   23,001 
 (1) 
Excludes amounts deferred in OCI resulting from the transfer
 of securities available for sale to held to maturity. 
 The following is a summary of
 selected information pertaining to off-balance sheet financial instruments:  
                 December 31, 
      2012  
 2011  
     Notional/
  Notional/
       Contract
  Contract
      Amount
Fair Value 
 Amount
 Fair Value
     (Dollars in millions)
   Commitments to extend, originate or purchase credit  
$ 43,760 
$ 81 
 $  41,575 
$ 73 
  Residential mortgage loans sold with recourse  
  1,019 
  12 
   1,316 
  6   Other loans sold with recourse  
  4,970 
  13 
   4,520 
  15 
  Letters of credit and financial guarantees written  
  5,164 
  30 
   6,095 
  27 
   133 
 NOTE 19.  Derivative Financial Instruments 
 The following tables set forth certain information concerning BB&T™s derivative financial instruments and related hedged 
items as of the periods indicated: 
                      Derivative Classifications and Hedging Relationships
                         December 31, 2012 
 December 31, 2011 
      Hedged Item or 
Notional 
Fair Value 
 Notional 
 Fair Value 
      Transaction 
Amount 
Gain (1) 
Loss (1) 
 Amount 
 Gain (1) 
Loss (1) 
        (Dollars in millions) 
Cash Flow Hedges: (2)
                 Interest rate contracts: 
                 Pay fixed swaps 
3 month LIBOR funding 
$ 6,035 
$ $ (298)
$ 5,750 
$ $ (307)
    Total   6,035 
  (298)
 5,750 
  (307)
Net Investment Hedges: 
  Foreign exchange contracts 
     73  1      Total      73  1  Fair Value Hedges: 
  Interest rate contracts: 
   Receive fixed swaps and option trades 
Long-term debt  
 800  182   2,556 
 254    Pay fixed swaps 
Commercial loans 
 187   (7)
 98   (5)
  Pay fixed swaps 
Municipal securities 
 345   (153)
 355   (158)
    Total   1,332 
 182  (160)
 3,009 
 254  (163)
Not Designated as Hedges: 
  Client-related and other risk management:
    Interest rate contracts: 
    Receive fixed swaps 
  9,352 
 687   9,176 
 703     Pay fixed swaps 
  9,464 
  (717)
 9,255 
  (730)
   Other swaps 
  2,273 
 1  (2)
 2,450 
  (6)
   Option trades   814  23  (26)
 1,004 
 38  (40)
   Futures contracts 
  109    240      Risk participations   204    150     Foreign exchange contracts 
  1,005 
 5  (4)
 575  6  (8)
    Total   23,221 
 716  (749)
 22,850 
 747  (784)
 Mortgage Banking:
    Interest rate contracts: 
    Receive fixed swaps 
  114   (2)
 50  1     Pay fixed swaps 
     16      Interest rate lock commitments 
  6,064 
 55  (1)
 4,977 
 60  (1)
   When issued securities, forward rate agreements and forward 
    commitments 
 8,886 
 10  (19)
 7,125 
 10  (88)
   Option trades   70  6   70  5     Futures contracts 
  31    65  1      Total   15,165 
 71  (22)
 12,303 
 77  (89)
 MSRs:    Interest rate contracts: 
    Receive fixed swaps 
  5,178 
 110  (27)
 5,616 
 154  (1)
   Pay fixed swaps 
  5,389 
 7  (94)
 4,651 
 1  (111)
   Option trades   14,510 
 363  (88)
 9,640 
 273  (51)
   Futures contracts 
  30    38      When issued securities, forward rate agreements and forward 
    commitments 
 2,406 
 2   3,651 
 18      Total   27,513 
 482  (209)
 23,596 
 446  (163)
     Total nonhedging derivatives 
 65,899 
 1,269 
 (980)
 58,749 
 1,270 
 (1,036)
Total Derivatives 
$ 73,266 
$ 1,451 
$ (1,438)
$ 67,581 
$ 1,525 
$ (1,506)
(1)   
Derivatives in a gain position are recorded
 as Other assets and derivatives in a 
loss position are recorded as Other liabilitie
s on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. (2) 
Cash flow hedges are hedging the first unhe
dged forecasted settlements associated with the listed hedged item descriptions.  
   134 
 The Effect of Derivative Instruments on
 the Consolidated Statements of Income
 Years Ended December 31
, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
                                Effective Portion
         Pre-tax Gain (Loss)
Location of 
 Pre-tax Gain (Loss) Reclassified 
        Recognized in OCI
Amounts Reclassified  
 from AOCI into Income 
        2012
  2011  
2010  
from AOCI into Income 
 2012 
 2011  
2010  
         (Dollars in millions)
Cash Flow Hedges:
                  Interest rate contracts 
$ (84)
$ (225)
$ (233)
Total interest income 
 $ 11 
$ 26 
$ 44 
               Total interest expense 
   (72)
  (72)
 (29)
              $ (61)
$ (46)
$ 15 
                 Pre-tax Gain (Loss) 
               Location of  Amounts 
 Recognized in Income 
               Recognized in Income 
 2012 
 2011  2010                  (Dollars in millions)
Fair Value Hedges:
                  Interest rate contracts 
       Total interest income 
 $ (21)
 $ (21)
$ (19)
               Total interest expense 
   288 
   314 
  179 
            $ 267 
 $ 293 
$ 160 
Not Designated as Hedges: 
            Client-related and other risk management: 
         Interest rate contracts 
     Other income 
 $ 35 
 $ 10 
$ 5    Foreign exchange contracts 
Other income 
   9    6   6  Mortgage Banking: 
             Interest rate contracts 
     Mortgage banking income 
   59 
   (70)
  33 
 MSRs:              Interest rate contracts 
     Mortgage banking income 
   128 
   394 
  196 
            $ 231 
 $ 340 
$ 240 
BB&T uses a variety of derivative instruments to manage interest rate and foreign exchange risks.  These instruments consist 
of interest-rate swaps, swaptions, caps, floors, collars, financ
ial forward and futures contract
s, when-issued securities, fore
ign 
exchange contracts and options written and pu
rchased.  A derivative is a financial inst
rument that derives its cash flows, and 
therefore its value, by reference to an un
derlying instrument, index or referenced interest rate.  There are four areas of risk
 management addressed through the use of derivatives: balan
ce sheet management, mortgage banking operations, MSRs and 
client-related and other risk management activities.  No porti
on of the change in fair value of the derivative has been 
excluded from effectiveness testing.  The ineffectiv
e portion was immaterial for all periods presented. 
Cash Flow Hedges  
BB&T™s floating rate business loans, overnight funding, FHLB advances, medium-term bank notes and long-term debt 
expose it to variability in cash flows for interest payments.  Th
e risk management objective for these floating rate assets and
 liabilities is to hedge the variability in the 
interest payments and receipts on future 
cash flows for forecasted transactions.
  All 
of BB&T™s current cash flow hedges are he
dging exposure to variability in future 
cash flows for forecasted transactions 
related to the payment of variable interest on then existing financial instruments.   
For a qualifying cash flow hedge, the portion of changes in the fair value of the derivatives that has been highly effective is
 recognized in OCI until the related cash flows from the hedged item are recognized in earnings.  If a derivative designated as 
a cash flow hedge is terminated or ceases to be highly effective,
 the gain or loss in OCI is amortized to earnings over the 
period the forecasted hedged transactions
 impact earnings.  If a he
dged forecasted transaction is no longer probable of 
occurring during the forecast period or w
ithin a short period thereafter, hedge acc
ounting is ceased and any gain or loss 
included in OCI is reported in earnings immediately.  At De
cember 31, 2012, BB&T had $173 million of unrecognized after-
tax losses on derivatives classified as cash flow hedges recorded
 in OCI, compared to $159 m
illion of unrecognized after-tax 
losses at December 31, 2011.  
The estimated amount to be reclassified from OCI into earnings during the next 12 months is a loss totaling approximately 
$59 million.  This includes active hedges and gains and losses related to hedges that were terminated early for which the 
forecasted transactions are still probable. 
 The proceeds from these terminations 
were included in cash flows from financing 
activities. 
  135 
 Fair Value Hedges  
BB&T™s fixed rate long-term debt, CDs, FHLB advances, 
loans and state and political subdivision securities produce 
exposure to losses in value as interest rates change.  The 
risk management objective for hedging fixed rate assets and 
liabilities is to convert the fixed rate paid or received to a 
floating rate.  BB&T accomplishes its risk management objective 
by hedging exposure to changes in fair value of fixed rate financial instruments primarily through the use of swaps.  For a 
qualifying fair value hedge, changes in the value of the derivatives that have been highly effective as hedges are recognized 
in current period earnings along with the corresponding changes in the fair value of the designated hedged item attributable to
 the risk being hedged. 
During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, BB&T term
inated certain fair value hedges related to its long-term 
debt and municipal securities and received 
net proceeds of $85 million and $185 mi
llion, respectively.  When a hedge has 
been terminated but the hedged item remains outstanding, the proceeds from the termination of these hedges have been 
reflected as part of the carrying value of the underlying debt/other financial instrument and are being amortized to earnings 

over its estimated remaining life.  The proceeds from these terminations were included in cash flows from financing 
activities.  During the years ended Decembe
r 31, 2012 and 2011, BB&T 
recognized pre-tax benefits of $256 million and 
$205 million, respectively, through reductions of interest expense from previously unwound fair value debt hedges. 
Derivatives Not Designated As Hedges  
Derivatives not designated as hedges are those that are entered into as either balance sheet risk management instruments or to 
facilitate client needs.  Balance sheet risk management hedges are those hedges that do not qualify to be treated as a cash 
flow hedge, a fair value hedge or a foreign currency hedg
e for accounting purposes, but are necessary to economically 
manage the risk associated with an asset or liability. 
This category of hedges includes derivatives that hedge mortgage banking operations and MSRs.  For mortgage loans 
originated for sale, BB&T is exposed to changes in market rates and conditions subsequent to the interest rate lock and 
funding date.  BB&T™s risk management strategy related to its 
interest rate lock commitment derivatives and LHFS includes 
using mortgage-based derivatives such as forward commitments and options in order to mitigate market risk.  For MSRs, 
BB&T uses various derivative instruments to mitigate the income statement effect of changes in the fair value of its MSRs.  
For the year ended December 31, 2012, BB&T 
recorded a gain of $128 million relate
d to these derivatives, which was offset 
by a negative $32 million valuation adjustment related to the MSR.  For the year ended December 31, 2011, BB&T recorded 
a gain of $394 million related to these derivatives, which wa
s offset by a negative $341 million valuation adjustment related 
to the MSR. 
BB&T also held, as risk management instruments, other derivatives not designated as hedges primarily to facilitate 
transactions on behalf of its clients, as well 
as activities related to balance sheet management. 
Derivatives Credit Risk Œ Dealer Counterparties 
Credit risk related to derivatives arises when amounts receiva
ble from a counterparty exceed those payable to the same 
counterparty.  BB&T addresses th
e risk of loss by subjecting dealer counterpar
ties to credit reviews and approvals similar to 
those used in making loans or other extensions of credit and by requiring collateral.  Dealer counterparties operate under 
agreements to provide cash and/or liquid collateral when
 unsecured loss positions exceed negotiated limits.  
As of December 31, 2012, BB&T had received cash collateral fr
om dealer counterparties tota
ling $44 million related to 
derivatives in a gain position of $40 million and had posted $639 million in cash collateral to dealer counterparties to secure
 derivatives in a loss position of $650 million.  In the event that BB&T™s credit ratings had been downgraded below 

investment grade, the amount of collateral posted to these counterparties would have increased by $12 million.   As of 

December 31, 2011, BB&T had received cash collateral from dealer
 counterparties totaling $82 mi
llion related to derivatives 
in a gain position of $79 million and had posted $639 million in cash collateral to dealer counterparties to secure derivatives
 in a loss position of $669 million.  In the event that BB&T™s 
credit ratings had been downgraded below investment grade, the 
amount of collateral posted to these counterpa
rties would have increased by $30 million.  
After collateral postings are considered, BB&
T had no unsecured positions in a gain 
with dealer counterparties at December 
31, 2012, compared to $3 million at December 31, 2011.  All 
of BB&T™s derivative contracts w
ith dealer counterparties settle 
on a monthly, quarterly or semiannual basis, with daily movement of collateral between counterparties required within 

established netting agreements.  BB&T only tr
ansacts with dealer counterparties that 
are national market makers with strong 
credit ratings.   
  136 
 Derivatives Credit Risk Œ Central Clearing Parties 
BB&T also clears certain derivatives through central clearing 
parties that require initial margin collateral, as well as 
additional collateral for trades in a net loss position.  Initial 
margin collateral requirements are established by central cle
aring parties on varying bases, with such amounts generally designed to
 offset the risk of non-payment.  Initial margin is generally 
calculated by applying the maximum loss experienced in value over a specified time horizon to the portfolio of existing 
trades.  As of December 31, 2
012, BB&T had posted $111 million in cash collate
ral, including initial ma
rgin, related to the 
clearing of derivatives in an $11 million ne
t loss position.  As of December 31, 2011
, BB&T had posted $145 million in cash 
collateral, including initial margin, related to the clearing of derivatives in a $60 million net loss position.  BB&T had no 
significant unsecured positions in a gain with cen
tral clearing parties at December 31, 2012. 
NOTE 20.  Computation of EPS 
 BB&T™s basic and diluted EPS calculations are presented in the following table:
                   Years Ended December 31,
      2012
 2011  
 2010  
      (Dollars in millions, except per share data,
       shares in thousands)
   Basic EPS: 
           Net income available to common shareholders 
$ 1,916 
$  1,289 
 $ 816 
   Weighted average number of common shares 
  698,739 
  696,532 
   692,489 
   Basic EPS $ 2.74 
$  1.85 
 $ 1.18 
            Diluted EPS: 
           Net income available 
to common shareholders 
$ 1,916 
$  1,289 
 $ 816 
   Weighted average number of common shares 
  698,739 
  696,532 
   692,489 
   Add: 
           Effect of dilutive outstanding equity-based awards 
  10,138 
  8,636 
   8,550 
   Weighted average number of diluted common shares 
  708,877 
  705,168 
   701,039 
   Diluted EPS 
$ 2.70 
$  1.83 
 $ 1.16 
  For the years ended December 31, 2012, 20
11 and 2010, the number of
 anti-dilutive awards was 36.6 million, 40.9 million 
and 36.8 million shares, respectively. 
  137 
 NOTE 21.  Operating Segments 
 BB&T's operations are divided into six reportable business segments: Community Banking, Residential Mortgage Banking, 
Dealer Financial Services, Specialized Le
nding, Insurance Services, and Financial Services.  These business segments have 
been identified based on BB&T™s organizational structure.  The segments require unique technology and marketing strategies 
and offer different products and services through a number of distinct branded LOBs.  While BB&T is managed as an 
integrated organization, individual executive managers are held accountable for the operations of these business segments. 
BB&T emphasizes revenue growth by focusing on client service, sales effectiveness and relationship management along with 
an organizational focus on referring clients between LOBs.  
The business objective is to 
provide BB&T™s entire suite of 
products to our clients with the end goa
l of providing ou
r clients the best financial experience in the marketplace.  The 
segment results contained herein are presented based on internal management accounting policies that were designed to 
support these strategic objectives.  Unlike financial accounting, 
there is no comprehensive authoritative body of guidance for 
management accounting equivalent to GAAP.  The performa
nce of the segments is not comparable with BB&T™s 
consolidated results or 
with similar information presented by any other fi
nancial institution.  Add
itionally, because of the 
interrelationships of the various segments, the information presented is not indicative of how the segments would perform if 
they operated as independent entities. 
The management accounting process uses various estimates and allocation methodologies to measure the performance of the 
operating segments.  To determine financial performance fo
r each segment, BB&T allocates capital, funding charges and 
credits, an allocated provision for loan 
and lease losses, certain noninterest expe
nses and income tax provisions to each 
segment, as applicable.  To promote revenue growth, certain revenues of Residential Mortgage Banking, Specialized 

Lending, Insurance Services, Financial Services and other segm
ents are reflected in noninterest income in the individual 
segment results and also allocated to Community Banking and Fi
nancial Services.  These allocated revenues are reflected in 
intersegment net referral fees and eliminat
ed in Other, Treasury & Corporate.  Ad
ditionally certain client groups of the 
Community Bank have also been identified as clients of other LOBs within the business segments.  These client groups 

include the commercial clients being serviced within the Comme
rcial Finance LOB that is part of the Specialized Lending 
segment and the identified wealth and private banking clients of 
the Wealth Division within the Financial Services segment.  
The net interest income and asso
ciated net FTP associated with these customers™
 loans and deposits is accounted for in the 
Community Bank in the respective line categories of net interest income (expense) and net intersegment interest income 
(expense).  For the Commercial Finance LOB and the Wealth Di
vision, their NIM and net intersegment interest income has 
been combined in the net intersegment in
terest income (expense) line with an ap
propriate offsetting amount to the Other, 
Treasury, and Corporate line item 
to ensure consolidated totals reflect the Company™s total NIM for loans and deposits.  
Allocation methodologies ar
e subject to periodic adjustment as the intern
al management accounting system is revised and 
business or product lines within the segments change.  Also, because the development and application of these methodologies 
is a dynamic process, the financial results presented may be periodically revised. 
BB&T utilizes an FTP system to eliminate the effect of interest 
rate risk from the segments™ net interest income because such 
risk is centrally managed within the Treasury function.  The 
FTP system credits or charges 
the segments with the economic 
value or cost of the funds the segments 
create or use.  The FTP system provides 
a funds credit for sources of funds and a 
funds charge for the use of funds by each
 segment.  The net FTP credit or charge
, which includes intercompany interest 
income and expense, is reflected as net intersegment income (expense) in the accompanying tables. 
The allocated provision for loan
 and lease losses is also allocated to the relevant segments based on management™s 
assessment of the segments™ credit risks.  During the first 
quarter of 2011, management refined the process related to 
assigning the allocated provision between the Company™s operatin
g segments.  Unlike the provision for loan and lease losses 
recorded pursuant to GAAP, the allocated provision is designed to achieve a higher degree of correlation between the loan 
loss experience and the GAAP basis provision at the segment le
vel, while at the same time providing management with a 
measure of operating performance that gi
ves appropriate consideration to the ri
sks inherent in each of the Company™s 
operating segments.  Any over or under allocated provision for loan and lease losses is reflected in Other, Treasury & 

Corporate to arrive at consolidated results. 
BB&T allocates expenses to the reportable segments based on various methodologies, including volume and amount of loans 
and deposits and the number of full-time equivalent employees. 
 Allocation systems are refined from time to time along with 
further identification of certain cost pools.  These cost pools and refinements are implemented to provide for improved 

managerial reporting of cost to the appropriate business segments.  A portion of corporate overhead expense is not allocated, 
but is retained in corporate accounts and reflected as Other,
 Treasury & Corporate in the accomp
anying tables.  The majority 
of depreciation expense is recorded in support units and allocated
 to the segments as part of allocated corporate expense.  
Income taxes are allocated to the various 
segments based on taxable income and statutory rates applicable to the segment.
   138 
 Community Banking 
 Community Banking serves individual and business clients by offering a variety of loan and deposit products and other 
financial services.  Community Banking is primarily responsible for serving client relationships and, therefore, is credited 
with certain revenue from the Residential Mortgage Banking, 
Financial Services, Insurance Se
rvices, Specialized Lending, 
and other segments, which is reflected in net referral fees.
 Residential Mortgage Banking  
Residential Mortgage Banking retains and services mortgage loans originated by Community Banking as well as those 
purchased from various correspondent originators.  Mortgage loan products include fixed and adjustable rate government and 
conventional loans for the purpose of constructing, purchasing or refinancing residential properties.  Substantially all of the
 properties are owner occupied.  BB&T generally retains the servicing rights to loans sold.  Residential Mortgage Banking 
earns interest on loans held in the warehouse and portfolio, ea
rns fee income from the origination and servicing of mortgage 
loans and recognizes gains or losses from the sale of mortgage loans.
 Dealer Financial Services  
Dealer Financial Services originates loan
s to consumers on a prime and nonprime basis for the purchase of automobiles.  
Such loans are originated on an indirect basis through approved franchised and independent automobile dealers throughout 
the BB&T market area and nationally through
 Regional Acceptance Corporation.  This segment also originates loans for the 
purchase of boats and recreational vehicles originated through dealers in BB&T™s market area.  In addition, financing and 
servicing to dealers for their inventories is provided through
 a joint relationship between Dealer Financial Services and 
Community Banking. 
Specialized Lending  
BB&T's Specialized Lending consists of ei
ght LOBs that provide speci
alty finance products to consumers and businesses.  
These LOBs are a combination of LOBs a
nd operating subsidiaries of either th
e Company or Branch Bank.  The LOBs 
include Commercial Finance, which contains commercial finance and mortgage warehouse lending, and Governmental 
Finance, which is responsible for tax-exempt government finance.  Operating subsidiaries include BB&T Equipment 
Finance, which provides equipment leasing largely within BB&T™s banking footprint; Sheffield Financial, a division of 

BB&T FSB (merged into Branch Bank on January 1, 2013), a dealer-based financer of equipment for both small businesses 
and consumers; Lendmark Financial Services, a direct cons
umer finance lending company; Prime Rate Premium Finance 
Corporation, which includes AFCO and CA
FO, insurance premium finance LOBs that provide funding to businesses in the 
United States and Canada and to consumers in certain mark
ets within BB&T™s banking foot
print; and Grandbridge, a full-
service commercial mortgage banking lender providing loans on a national basis.  Branch Bank clients as well as nonbank 
clients within and outside BB&
T™s primary geographic market area are serv
ed by these eight LOBs.  The Community 
Banking segment receives credit for referrals to these LOBs w
ith the corresponding charge re
tained as part of Other, 
Treasury & Corporate in the accompanying tables. 
Insurance Services  
BB&T's insurance agency / brokerage network 
is the eighth largest in the world.  In
surance Services prov
ides property and 
casualty, life and health insurance to businesses and individuals.
  It also provides small business and corporate services, suc
h as workers compensation and professional liability, as well as su
rety coverage and title insurance.  In addition, Insurance 
Services underwrites a limited amount of property and casualty coverage.  Community Banking and Financial Services 
receive credit for insurance commissions on referred account
s, with the corresponding charge 
retained in the corporate office, 
which is reflected as part of Other, Treas
ury & Corporate in the 
accompanying tables. 
Financial Services  
Financial Services provides personal trust administration, esta
te planning, investment counseling, wealth management, asset 
management, employee benefits services, corporate banking and corporate trust services to individuals, corporations, 
institutions, foundations and government entities.  Financial Serv
ices also offers clients investment alternatives, including 
discount brokerage services, equities, fixed-rate and variable
-rate annuities, mutual funds and governmental and municipal 
bonds through BB&T Investment Services, Inc., a subsidiary of Branch Bank. 
Financial Services includes a full-service 
brokerage and investment banking firm that provides services in retail brokerage, 
equity and debt underwriting, investment advice, corporate fina
nce and equity research and fac
ilitates the origination, trading
 and distribution of fixed-income securities and equity products 
in both the public and private capital markets.  Financial 
  139 
 Services also has a public finance department that provides investment banking services, financial advisory services and 
municipal bond financing to a variety of regional taxable and tax-exempt issuers. 
Financial Services includes a group of
 BB&T-sponsored private equity and mezzan
ine investment funds that invests in 
privately owned middle-market operating companies to facilita
te growth or ownership transition while leveraging the 
Community Banking network for referrals and other bank services.  Financial Services also includes the Corporate Banking 
Division that originates and services large corporate relationships, syndicated lending relationships and client derivatives.  
Community Banking receives an interoffice cred
it for referral fees, with the corresponding
 charge reflected as part of Other, 
Treasury & Corporate in the accompanying ta
bles.  Also captured within the net inte
rsegment interest income for Financial 
Services is the NIM for the loans and deposits assigned to the Wealth Management Division that are housed in the 
Community Bank. 
Other, Treasury & Corporate  
Other, Treasury & Corporate is the combination of the Other se
gment that represents operating entities that do not meet the 
quantitative or qualitative thresholds for disclosure; BB&T™s Treas
ury function, which is responsible for the management of 
the securities portfolios, overall balance sheet funding and liqui
dity, and overall management of interest rate risk; the 
corporate support functions that have not been allocated to the 
business segments; merger-related
 charges or credits that are 
incurred as part of acquisition and conversion of acquired entities;
 nonrecurring charges that are considered to be unusual in 
nature or infrequent and not reflective of the normal operations of the segments; and intercompany eliminations including 
intersegment net referral fees and net intersegment interest income (expense). 
The substantial majority of the loan portfolio acquired in the 
Colonial acquisition is covered by loss sharing agreements with 
the FDIC and is managed outside of the Community Banking segmen
t.  The assets and related interest income from this loan 
portfolio have an expected finite business life and are ther
efore included in the Other, Treasury & Corporate segment.  
Results for BankAtlantic were included in the Other, Treasu
ry & Corporate segment until the system conversion in October 
2012.  Historically, performance results of 
bank acquisitions prior to system conversio
n are reported in this segment and on a 
post-conversion date are reported in the Community Banking segment. 
The following table discloses selected financial information w
ith respect to BB&T's reportable business segments for the 
years indicated:     BB&T Corporation 
Reportable Segments  
Years Ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 
                                               Community Banking 
Residential Mortgage Banking 
 Dealer Financial Services 
Specialized Lending 
    2012  
2011  
2010  
2012  
2011  
2010  
 2012  
2011  
2010  
2012  
2011  
2010  
     (Dollars in millions) 
Net interest income (expense) 
 $  2,086 
$  1,937 
$  1,771 
$  1,148 
$  1,025 
$  981 
 $  845 
$  852 
$  858 
$  701 
$  636 
$  591 
Net intersegment interest income (expense)  
  1,342 
  1,642 
  2,033 
  (776)  (734)  (721)   (216)  (270)  (344)  (154)  (171)  (184)Segment net interest income 
  3,428 
  3,579 
  3,804 
  372 
  291 
  260 
   629 
  582 
  514 
  547 
  465 
  407 
              Allocated provision for loan and lease losses  
  666 
  589 
  1,801 
  95   320 
  553 
   164 
  125 
  93   137 
  72   110 
Noninterest income  
  1,125 
  1,016 
  1,200 
  753 
  349 
  457 
   7   7   4   228 
  211 
  176 
Intersegment net referral fees (expense)  
  182 
  132 
  146 
  (1)                 Noninterest expense  
  1,828 
  2,354 
  2,373 
  388 
  296 
  254 
   101 
  90   90   256 
  233 
  218 
Amortization of intangibles 
  37   47   66          1   1   1   5   6   6 Allocated corporate expenses  
  1,025 
  899 
  799 
  54   48   33    36   37   37   79   72   62 Income (loss) before income taxes  
  1,179 
  838 
  111 
  587 
  (24)  (123)   334 
  336 
  297 
  298 
  293 
  187 
Provision (benefit) for income taxes 
  427 
  302 
  35   221 
  (9)  (46)   126 
  127 
  112 
  63   58   19 Segment net income (loss)  
$  752 
$  536 
$  76 $  366 
$  (15)$  (77) $  208 
$  209 
$  185 
$  235 
$  235 
$  168 
       Identifiable segment assets (period end) 
$  62,945 
$  61,072 
$  63,244 
$  29,391 
$  25,471 
$  22,183 
 $  10,264 
$  9,874 
$  9,418 
$  18,907 
$  16,766 
$  14,945 
           Insurance Services 
Financial Services 
 Other, Treasury and Corporate (1) 
Total BB&T Corporation 
    2012  
2011  
2010  
2012  
2011  
2010  
 2012  
2011  
2010  
2012  
2011  
2010  
    (Dollars in millions) 
Net interest income (expense) 
 $  3 $  3 $  3 $  119 
$  107 
$  99  $  955 
$  947 
$  1,017 
$  5,857 
$  5,507 
$  5,320 
Net intersegment interest income (expense)  
  3   4   6   332 
  267 
  215 
   (531)  (738)  (1,005)
      Segment net interest income 
  6   7   9   451 
  374 
  314 
   424 
  209 
  12   5,857 
  5,507 
  5,320 
              Allocated provision for loan and lease losses  
        10   (1)  45    (15)  85   36   1,057 
  1,190 
  2,638 
Noninterest income  
  1,365 
  1,040 
  1,033 
  725 
  694 
  657 
   (383)  (204)  430 
  3,820 
  3,113 
  3,957 
Intersegment net referral fees (expense)  
        29   20   16    (210)  (152)  (162)      Noninterest expense  
  1,015 
  786 
  774 
  641 
  574 
  527 
   1,489 
  1,370 
  1,312 
  5,718 
  5,703 
  5,548 
Amortization of intangibles 
  61   42   45   3   3   3    3     1   110 
  99   122 
Allocated corporate expenses  
  82   72   68   94   75   39    (1,370)
  (1,203)
  (1,038)
      Income (loss) before income taxes  
  213 
  147 
  155 
  457 
  437 
  373 
   (276)  (399)  (31)  2,792 
  1,628 
  969 
Provision (benefit) for income taxes 
  69   46   52   171 
  164 
  139 
   (313)  (392)  (196)  764 
  296 
  115 
Segment net income (loss)  
$  144 
$  101 
$  103 
$  286 
$  273 
$  234 
 $  37 $  (7)$  165 
$  2,028 
$  1,332 
$  854 
       Identifiable segment assets (period end) 
$  3,297 
$  2,350 
$  2,294 
$  9,184 
$  7,413 
$  6,053 
 $  49,884 
$  51,633 
$  38,944 
$  183,872 
$  174,579 
$  157,081 
(1) 
Includes financial data from subsidiaries below the qu
anti
tative and qualitative thresh
olds requiring disclosure. 
140 
  141 
 SIGNATURES
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be 
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, as of February 28, 2013:  
  BB&T Corporation
  (Registrant)
     /s/ Kelly S. King 
    Kelly S. King 
   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of 
the Registrant and in the capacities indicated as of February 28, 2013: 
 
   /s/ Kelly S. King 
    Kelly S. King 
   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
   (Principal Executive Officer) 
    /s/ Daryl N. Bible 
    Daryl N. Bible 
   Senior Executive Vice President and 
   Chief Financial Officer 
   (Principal Financial Officer) 
    /s/ Cynthia B. Powell 
    Cynthia B. Powell 
   Executive Vice President and 
   Corporate Controller 
   (Principal Accounting Officer) 
   142 
 A Majority of the Directors of
 the Registrant are included:
            /s/ Kelly S. King 
 /s/ Nido R. Qubein 
  Kelly S. King
  Nido R. Qubein
   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Director
        /s/ John A. Allison IV 
    John A. Allison IV
  Tollie W. Rich, Jr.
   Director
  Director
        /s/ Jennifer S. Banner 
 /s/ Thomas E. Skains 
  Jennifer S. Banner
  Thomas E. Skains
   Director
  Director
        /s/ K. David Boyer Jr. 
    K. David Boyer Jr.
  Thomas N. Thompson
   Director
  Director
        /s/ Anna R. Cablik 
 /s/ Edwin H. Welch, Ph.D. 
  Anna R. Cablik
  Edwin H. Welch, Ph.D.
   Director
  Director
        /s/ Ronald E. Deal 
 /s/ Stephen T. Williams 
  Ronald E. Deal
  Stephen T. Williams
   Director
  Director
        /s/ James A. Faulkner 
    James A. Faulkner
     Director
          /s/ I. Patricia Henry 
    I. Patricia Henry
     Director
          /s/ John P. Howe III, M.D. 
    John P. Howe III, M.D.
     Director
          /s/ Eric C. Kendrick 
    Eric C. Kendrick
     Director
          /s/ Dr. Louis B. Lynn 
    Dr. Louis B. Lynn
     Director
          /s/ Edward C. Milligan 
    Edward C. Milligan
     Director
          /s/ Charles A. Patton 
    Charles A. Patton
     Director
           143 
 EXHIBIT INDEX 
Exhibit No. 
 Description 
 Location 
2.1  Purchase and Assumption Agreement Whole Bank All 
Deposits, among the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, receiver of Colonial Bank, Montgomery, 
Alabama, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and 
Branch Banking and Trust Company, dated as of August 
14, 2009. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 2.1 of the Current Report 
on Form 8-K, filed August 17, 
2009. 
3(i)  Articles of Incorporation of the Registrant, as Restated 
February 25, 2009, and amended May 10, 2010, April 27, 
2012, July 24, 2012 and October 26, 2012. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 3 (i) of the Quarterly 

Report on Form 10-Q, filed 
November 2, 2012.  
3(ii)  Bylaws of the Registrant, as amended February 21, 2012.  Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 3(ii) of the Current Report 
on Form 8-K, filed February 24, 

2012. 
4.1  Articles of Incorporation of the Registrant, as Restated 
February 25, 2009 and amended May 10, 2010, April 27, 
2012, July 24, 2012 and October 26, 2012. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 3 (i) of the Quarterly 

Report on Form 10-Q, filed 

November 2, 2012.  
4.2  Articles of Incorporation of the Registrant, as Restated 
February 25, 2009 and amended May 10, 2010, April 27, 

2012, July 24, 2012 and October 26, 2012. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 3 (i) of the Quarterly 

Report on Form 10-Q, filed 
November 2, 2012.  
4.3  Indenture Regarding Senior Securities (including form of 
Senior Debt Security) between Registrant and U.S. Bank 
National Association (as successor in interest to State 
Street Bank and Trust Company)
, as trustee, dated as of 
May 24, 1996. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4(c) of Form S-3 
Registration Statement No. 333-
02899. 
4.4  First Supplemental Indenture, dated May 4, 2009, to the 
Indenture Regarding Senior Securities, dated as of May 

24, 1996, between the Registrant and U.S. Bank National 
Association. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.2 of the Current Report 
on Form 8-K, filed May 4, 2009. 
4.5  Indenture Regarding Subordinated Securities (including 
Form of Subordinated Debt Security) between the 
Registrant and U.S. Bank National Association (as 
successor in interest to State Street Bank and Trust 

Company), as trustee, dated as of May 24, 1996. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4(d) of Form S-3 
Registration Statement No. 333-
02899. 
4.6  First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 23, 
2003, to the Indenture Regarding Subordinated Securities, 

dated as of May 24, 1996, between the Registrant and 
U.S. Bank National Association. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.5 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
4.7  Second Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 
24, 2004, to the Indenture Regarding Subordinated 
Securities, dated as of 
May 24, 1996, between the 
Registrant and U.S. Bank National Association. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.7 of the Annual Report 

on Form 10-K, filed February 26, 
2010. 
4.8  Third Supplemental Indenture, dated May 4, 2009, to the 
Indenture Regarding Subordinated Securities, dated as of 
May 24, 1996, between the Registrant and U.S. Bank 
National Association. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.6 of the Current Report 
on Form 8-K, filed May 4, 2009. 
10.1*  BB&T Corporation Amended and Restated Non-
Employee Directors™ Deferred Compensation and Stock 

Option Plan (amended and restated January 1, 2005). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.1 of the Annual Report 

on Form 10-K, filed February 28, 
2008. 
  144 
 Exhibit No. 
 Description 
 Location 
10.2*ƒ  Form of Non-Employee Director Nonqualified Stock 
Option Agreement for the BB&T Corporation Amended 
and Restated Non-Employee Directors™ Deferred 
Compensation and Stock Option Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.2 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 25, 
2011. 
10.3*  BB&T Corporation 1995 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan 
(as amended and restated through February 25, 2003). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 99 of Form S-8 
Registration Statement No. 333-
116502. 
10.4*  2008 Declaration of Amendment to BB&T Corporation 
1995 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.2.a of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 

2009. 
10.5*  409A Declaration of Amendment to BB&T Corporation 
1995 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.2.b of the Annual 
Report on Form 10-K, filed 

February 27, 2009. 
10.6*  Form of Employee Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement 
for the BB&T Corporation 1995 Omnibus Stock Incentive 

Plan, as amended and restated. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.5 of the Annual Report 

on Form 10-K, filed February 25, 

2011. 
10.7*  BB&T Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 Stock 
Incentive Plan, as amended (as amended through February 

24, 2009). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
the Appendix to the Proxy 

Statement for the 2009 Annual 
Meeting of Shareholders on 
Schedule 14A, filed March 13, 

2009. 
10.8*  Form of Restricted St
ock Unit Agreement (Performance-
Based Vesting Component) for Executive Officers under 

the BB&T Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 

Stock Incentive Plan (June
 2010 Performance Award). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.1 of the Current Report 

on Form 8-K, filed June 25, 2010. 
10.9*  Form of Performance 
Unit Award Agreement for the 
BB&T Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 Stock 
Incentive Plan (3-Year Vesting). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.6 of the Quarterly 

Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 7, 

2010. 
10.10*  Form of Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit 
Agreement for the BB&T Corporation Amended and 

Restated 2004 Stock Incen
tive Plan (5-Year Vesting). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.6 of the Annual Report 

on Form 10-K, filed February 28, 

2008. 
10.11*  Form of Non-Employee Director Restricted Stock Unit 
Agreement for the BB&T Corporation Amended and 

Restated 2004 Stock Incen
tive Plan (4-Year Vesting). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.2 of the Quarterly 

Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 7, 
2010. 
10.12*  Form of Non-Employee Director Nonqualified Stock 
Option Agreement for the BB&T Corporation Amended 
and Restated 2004 Stock Ince
ntive Plan (5-Year Vesting). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.7 of the Annual Report 

on Form 10-K, filed February 28, 
2008. 
10.13*  Form of Non-Employee Director Nonqualified Stock 
Option Agreement for the BB&T Corporation Amended 
and Restated 2004 Stock Ince
ntive Plan (4-Year Vesting). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.3 of the Quarterly 

Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 7, 
2010. 
  145 
 Exhibit No. 
 Description 
 Location 
10.14*  Form of Employee Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement 
for the BB&T Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 
Stock Incentive Plan
 (5-Year Vesting). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.8 of the Annual Report 

on Form 10-K, filed February 28, 
2008. 
10.15*  Form of Employee Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement 
for the BB&T Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 
Stock Incentive Plan
 (4-Year Vesting). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.5 of the Quarterly 

Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 7, 
2010. 
10.16*  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for the BB&T 
Corporation Amended and Rest
ated 2004 Stock Incentive 
Plan (5-Year Vesting). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.1 of the Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 8, 
2009. 
10.17*  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for the BB&T 
Corporation Amended and Rest
ated 2004 Stock Incentive 
Plan (4-Year Vesting). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.4 of the Quarterly 

Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 7, 

2010. 
10.18*  BB&T Corporation Amended and Restated Short-term 
Incentive Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.11 of the Annual Report 

on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 

2009. 
10.19*  First Amendment to BB&T Corporation Short-term 
Incentive Plan (January 1, 2009 Restatement). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.1 of the Quarterly 

Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 7, 
2010. 
10.20*  Southern National Deferred Compensation Plan for Key 
Executives including amendments. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.21 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 25, 
2011. 
10.21*  BB&T Corporation Target Pension Plan.  Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.13 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
10.22*  First Amendment to the BB&T Corporation Target 
Pension Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.23 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 25, 
2011. 
10.23*ƒ  Second Amendment to
 the BB&T Corporation Target 
Pension Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.24 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 25, 
2011. 
10.24*ƒ  Third Amendment to the BB&T Corporation Target 
Pension Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.25 of the Annual Report 

on Form 10-K, filed February 25, 
2011. 
10.25*  BB&T Corporation Non-Qualified Defined Benefit Plan.  Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.14 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
10.26*  First Amendment to the BB&T Corporation Non-
Qualified Defined Benefit Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.25 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 25, 
2011. 
  146 
 Exhibit No. 
 Description 
 Location 
10.27*ƒ  Second Amendment to the BB&T Corporation Non-
Qualified Defined Benefit Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.28 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 25, 
2011. 
10.28*ƒ  Third Amendment to the BB&T Corporation Non-
Qualified Defined Benefit Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.29 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 25, 
2011. 
10.29*  BB&T Corporation Non-Qualified Defined Contribution 
Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.15 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 

2009. 
10.30*  BB&T Corporation Non-Qualified Deferred 
Compensation Trust Amended and Restated effective 
November 1, 2001 (including amendments). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.16 of the Annual Report 

on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 

2009. 
10.31*  BB&T Corporation Non-Qualified Deferred 
Compensation Trust Amended and Restated effective 

November 1, 2001 (including amendments). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.17 of the Annual Report 

on Form 10-K, filed February 28, 

2008. 
10.32*  Form of Employee Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement 
for the BB&T Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 

Stock Incentive Plan (4-Year
 Vesting with Clawback 
Provision). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.1 of the Quarterly 

Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 4, 
2012.  
10.33*  Form of Employee Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for 
the BB&T Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 
Stock Incentive Plan (4-Year
 Vesting with Clawback 
Provision). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.2 of the Quarterly 

Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 4, 
2012.  
10.34*  Form of Performance Unit Award Agreement for the 
BB&T Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 Stock 
Incentive Plan (3-Year Vesting 2012 - 2014). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.3 of the Quarterly 

Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 4, 
2012.  
10.35*  Form of Employee Nonqualified Stock Option Agreement 
for the BB&T Corporation 2012 Incentive Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.1 of the Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q, filed August 
7, 2012.  
10.36*  Form of Employee Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for 
the BB&T Corporation 2
012 Incentive Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.2 of the Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q, filed August 
7, 2012.  
10.37*  Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by and 
among BB&T Corporation, Branch Banking and Trust 

Co. and Kelly S. King dated as of December 19, 2012. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.1 of the Current Report 

on Form 8-K, filed December 19, 
2012. 
10.38*  2008 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by 
and among BB&T Corporation, Branch Banking and 
Trust Co. and Christopher L. Henson. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.21 of the Annual Report 

on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
10.39*  2008 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by 
and among BB&T Corporation, Branch Banking and 
Trust Co. and Daryl N. Bible. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.22 of the Annual Report 

on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
  147 
 Exhibit No. 
 Description 
 Location 
10.40*  2008 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by 
and among BB&T Corporation, Branch Banking and 
Trust Co. and Ricky K. Brown. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.23 of the Annual Report 

on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
10.41*  2008 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by 
and among BB&T Corporation, Branch Banking and 
Trust Co. and Barbara F. Duck. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.24 of the Annual Report 

on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
10.42*  2008 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by 
and among BB&T Corporation, Branch Banking and 
Trust Co. and Donna C. Goodrich. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.25 of the Annual Report 

on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
10.43*  2008 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by 
and among BB&T Corporation, Branch Banking and 

Trust Co. and Robert E. Greene. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.26 of the Annual Report 

on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 

2009. 
10.44*  2008 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by 
and among BB&T Corporation, Branch Banking and 

Trust Co. and Clarke R. Starnes, III. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.27 of the Annual Report 

on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 

2009. 
10.45*  2008 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by 
and among BB&T Corporation, Branch Banking and 

Trust Co. and Steven B. Wiggs. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.28 of the Annual Report 

on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
10.46*  2008 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by 
and among BB&T Corporation, Branch Banking and 
Trust Co. and C. Leon Wilson, III. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.29 of the Annual Report 

on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
10.47*  2012 Employment Agreement by and among BB&T 
Corporation, Branch Banking and Trust Co. and Cynthia 
A. Williams 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.1 of the Quarterly 

Report on Form 10-Q, filed 
November 2, 2012. 
10.48*  2012 Employment Agreement by and among BB&T 
Corporation, Branch Banking and Trust Co. and William 
R. Yates  Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.2 of the Quarterly 

Report on Form 10-Q, filed 
November 2, 2012. 
11  Statement re computation of earnings per share  Filed herewith as Note 20 to the 
consolidated financial statements. 
12ƒ  Statement re computation of ratios  Filed herewith. 
21ƒ  Subsidiaries of the Registrant  Filed herewith. 
22  Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders  Future filing incorporated herein by 
reference pursuant to General 
Instruction G(3).  
23ƒ  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting 
Firm 
 Filed herewith. 
31.1  Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 
13a-14(a) or 15(d)-14(a) of the Exchange Act, as adopted 

pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 

2002. 
 Filed herewith. 
  148 
 Exhibit No. 
 Description 
 Location 
31.2  Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 
13a-14(a) or 15(d)-14(a) of the Exchange Act, as adopted 
pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002. 
 Filed herewith. 
32  Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as 
adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act of 2002. 
 Filed herewith. 
101.CAL  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase.  Filed herewith. 
101.DEF  XBRL Taxonomy Definition Linkbase.  Filed herewith. 

101.INS  XBRL Instance Document.  Filed herewith. 
101.LAB  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase.  Filed herewith. 
101.PRE  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase.  Filed herewith. 

101.SCH  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema.  Filed herewith. 
 * Management compensatory plan or arrangement. 
ƒ Exhibit filed with the SEC and available upon request.  
    Exhibit 31.1 
 CERTIFICATIONS 
 I, Kelly S. King, certify that: 
 1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of BB&T Corporation; 
 2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
 statement of a material fact
 or omit to state a material 
fact necessary to make the statements 
made, in light of the circumstances unde
r which such statements were made, not 
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
 3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present 
in all material respects the financial condition, results of oper
ations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the 
periods presented in this report; 
 4. The registrant™s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsib
le for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and 
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as 
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
 a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed 
under our supervision, to ensure that material informa
tion relating to the registrant, including its consolidated 
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those en
tities, particularly during the period in which this report 
is being prepared; 
 b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be 
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable as
surance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and 
the preparation of financial statements for external 
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles; 
 c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant™s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our 

conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by 
this report based on such evaluation; and 
 d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant™s in
ternal control over financial reporting that occurred during 
the registrant™s most recent fiscal quarter
 (the registrant™s fourth 
fiscal quarter in the case of
 an annual report) that 
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to material
ly affect, the registrant™s internal control over financial 
reporting; and 
 5. The registrant™s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control 
over financial reporting, to the registrant™s auditors and th
e audit committee of the registra
nt™s board of directors (or 
persons performing the equivalent functions): 
 a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial 
reporting which are reasonably likely to
 adversely affect the registrant™s ab
ility to record, process, summarize and 
report financial information; and 
 b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the 

registrant™s internal contro
l over financial reporting. 
  Date: February 28, 2013 
  /s/ Kelly S. King 
   Kelly S. King 
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
    Exhibit 31.2 
 CERTIFICATIONS 
 I, Daryl N. Bible, certify that: 
 1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of BB&T Corporation; 
 2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue
 statement of a material fact
 or omit to state a material 
fact necessary to make the statements 
made, in light of the circumstances unde
r which such statements were made, not 
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
 3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present 
in all material respects the financial condition, results of oper
ations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the 
periods presented in this report; 
 4. The registrant™s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsib
le for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and 
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as 
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
 a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed 
under our supervision, to ensure that material informa
tion relating to the registrant, including its consolidated 
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those en
tities, particularly during the period in which this report 
is being prepared; 
 b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be 
designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable as
surance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and 
the preparation of financial statements for external 
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles; 
 c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant™s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our 

conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by 
this report based on such evaluation; and 
 d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant™s in
ternal control over financial reporting that occurred during 
the registrant™s most recent fiscal quarter
 (the registrant™s fourth 
fiscal quarter in the case of
 an annual report) that 
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to material
ly affect, the registrant™s internal control over financial 
reporting; and 
 5. The registrant™s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control 
over financial reporting, to the registrant™s auditors and th
e audit committee of the registra
nt™s board of directors (or 
persons performing the equivalent functions): 
 a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial 
reporting which are reasonably likely to
 adversely affect the registrant™s ab
ility to record, process, summarize and 
report financial information; and 
 b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the 

registrant™s internal control 
over financial reporting.  
 Date: February 28, 2013 
  /s/ Daryl N. Bible 
   Daryl N. Bible 
  Senior Executive Vice President and 
  Chief Financial Officer 
    Exhibit 32  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
 AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 
 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
 Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the undersigned, 
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Fina
ncial Officer of BB&T Corporation (the ﬁCompanyﬂ), do hereby certify that 
(1)
 The Annual Report on Form 10-K for 
the fiscal period ended December 31, 
2012 (the ﬁForm 10-Kﬂ) of the Company 
fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) 
or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
 (2)
 The information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, 
in all material respects, the financial condition and results 
of operations of the Company. 
  Date:  February 28, 2013 

  /s/ Kelly S. King 
   Kelly S. King
   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
    /s/ Daryl N. Bible 
   Daryl N. Bible 
  Senior Executive Vice President and 
  Chief Financial Officer 
  A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to BB&T Corporation and will be 
retained by BB&T Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 
                     (THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK) 
GENERAL INFORMATION
About the Report
This 2012 Annual Report contains financial information and performance measures 
determined by methods other than in accordance with accounting principles generally 
accepted in the United States of America (ﬁGAAPﬂ). BB&T™s management uses these 
measures to evaluate the underlying performance and ef˜ciency of BB&T™s operations. 
Management believes that non-GAAP measures provide a greater understanding of 
ongoing operations and enhance comparability of results with prior periods as well 
as demonstrating the effects of significant gains and charges in the current period. 
The company believes that a meaningful analysis of its ˜nancial performance requires 
an understanding of the factors underlying that performance. BB&T™s management 
believes that investors may use these non-GAAP financial measures to analyze 
˜nancial performance without the impact of unusual items that may obscure trends in 
the company™s underlying performance. These disclosures should not be viewed as 
 a substitute for ˜nancial measures determined in accordance with GAAP, nor are they 
necessarily comparable to non-GAAP performance measures that may be presented 
by other companies. The Tier 1 common equity ratio is a non-GAAP measure. BB&T 
uses the Tier 1 common equity de˜nition used in the Supervisory Capital Assessment 
Program to calculate the ratio. BB&T™s management uses these measures to assess the 
quality of capital and believes that investors may ˜nd them useful in their analysis of the 
corporation. These capital measures are not necessarily comparable to similar capital 
measures that may be presented by other companies. Asset quality ratios have been 
adjusted to remove the impact of acquired loans and foreclosed property covered by the 
FDIC loss-sharing agreements.
SEC Filings
BB&T Corporation ˜les required reports with 
 the Securities and Exchange Commission each 
 year. Copies of these reports may be obtained 
 upon written request to:
Daryl N. Bible
 Senior Executive Vice President
 and Chief Financial Of˜cer
 BB&T Corporation
 200 West Second Street
 PO Box 1250
 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-1250
Corporate Headquarters
BB&T Corporation
 200 West Second Street
 PO Box 1250
 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-1250
 336-733-2000
Equal Opportunity Employer
BB&T Corporation is an equal opportunity 
 employer. All matters regarding recruiting, hiring, 
 training, compensation, bene˜ts, promotions, 
 transfers and all other personnel policies will 
 continue to be free from discriminatory practices.
Transfer Agent
Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
 250 Royall Street
 Canton, MA 02021
Shareholder Services
Shareholders seeking information regarding 
 transfer instructions, dividends, lost certi˜cates 
 or other general information should write or call:
Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
 P.O. Box 43078
 Providence, RI 02940-3078
 800-213-4314
Address changes, reprinting of tax information, 
 and account information may be directly 
 accessed through the Computershare website 
 using Investor Centre:
Computershare.com/BBT
Stock Exchange 
 and Trading Symbol
The common stock of BB&T Corporation 
 is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under 
 the symbol BBT.
Direct Stock Purchase 
 and Dividend Reinvestment Plan
The Direct Stock Purchase and Dividend 
 Reinvestment Plan offers prospective and current 
shareholders the opportunity to affordably obtain 
 BB&T common shares. Shareholders may reinvest 
dividends, purchase additional shares, and sell shares 
on a regular basis. For more information, contact 
Computershare at 800-213-4314.
Analyst Information
Analysts, investors and others seeking additional 
 ˜nancial information should contact:
Alan W. Greer
 Executive Vice President
 Investor Relations
 336-733-3021
R. Bruce MacPherson
 Vice President
 Investor Relations
 336-733-3058
Clients
Clients seeking assistance with BB&T products 
 and services should call 800-BANK BBT 
 (800-226-5228).
News Media
News media representatives seeking information
 should contact:
Cynthia A. Williams
 Senior Executive Vice President
 Chief Corporate Communications Of˜cer
 336-733-1478
Website
Please visit BBT.com for information concerning 
 BB&T™s products and services, news releases, 
 ˜nancial information, corporate governance practices 
 and other material relating to BB&T.
Corporate Pro˜le 
Founded in 1872, BB&T Corporation (ﬁBB&Tﬂ or ﬁthe Corporationﬂ) continues to build 
 on a strong foundation of excellence.
Headquartered in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, BB&T had consolidated assets 
 at December 31, 2012, totaling $184 billion, and ranks as the ninth-largest ˜nancial 
institution based on deposits in the United States. As of December 31, 2012, BB&T 
operated 1,832 branch of˜ces in 12 states and Washington, D.C. 
BB&T is a values-driven highly pro˜table growth organization. A Fortune 500 company, 
BB&T offers a full range of consumer and commercial banking, securities brokerage, 
asset management, mortgage and insurance products and services. We are consistently 
recognized for outstanding client satisfaction by J.D. Power and Associates, the U.S. Small 
Business Administration, Greenwich Associates and others.
Our fundamental strategy is to deliver the best value proposition in our markets. 
Recognizing value is a function of quality to price, our focus is on delivering high-quality 
client service resulting in the Perfect Client Experience.
Our overarching purpose is to achieve our vision and mission, consistent with our values, 
with the ultimate goal of maximizing shareholder returns.
At BB&T, we™ve spent 141 years sharing our knowledge with our clients. By offering sound 
advice and personal attention, we help our clients make informed choices as they manage 
their day-to-day ˜nances and set a course to reach their long-term ˜nancial goals.
More information about BB&T and our full line of products and services is available 
 at BBT.com.
BB&T Corporation
200 West Second Street
PO Box 1250
Winston-Salem, NC 27102-1250
C0001125038
