2010 Annual Review
Founded in 1872, BB&T Corporation (ﬁBB&Tﬂ or ﬁthe Corporationﬂ) continues to build on a strong 
foundation of excellence.
Headquartered in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, BB&T had consolidated assets at December 31, 
2010, totaling $157 billion, and ranks as one of the largest banking organizations in the United States. 
 As of December 31, 2010, BB&T operated approximately 1,800 branch of˜ces in 12 states and 

Washington, D.C.
BB&T is a values-driven highly profitable growth organization. During the last two decades, 
 our growth came largely from mergers as the economics of combinations were compelling. In the 
mid-2000s, we turned our attention to an organic growth strategy, which proved very effective.  
More recently, while maintaining our focus on organic growth, we are well-positioned for strategic 

opportunities, such as our FDIC-assisted acquisition of Colonial Bank.
Our fundamental strategy is to deliver the best value proposition in our markets. Recognizing 
 value is a function of quality to price, our focus is on delivering high-quality client service resulting 
in the Perfect Client Experience.
Our overarching purpose is to achieve our vision and mission, consistent with our values, with the 
ultimate goal of maximizing shareholder returns.
At BB&T, we™ve spent 139 years sharing our knowledge with our clients. By offering sound 
advice and personal attention, we help our clients make informed choices as they manage their 
 day-to-day ˜nances and set a course to reach their long-term ˜nancial goals.
CORPORATE
 PROFI
LE This year™s cover painting symbolizes our optimistic outlook for 2011 
 and our increasing con˜dence in the U.S. economy.ﬁA Brighter Directionﬂ
  by Bryan Larsen 
 © 2011 Bryan Larsen 
 Quent Cordair Fine Art 
 www.cordair.com
 1-866-267-3247 
ABOUT THE COVERA Brighter Direction
1FORWARD˜LOOKING ST
ATEMENTSThis Annual Review contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the ˜nancial condition, results of operations and 
businesses of BB&T. Statements that are not historical or current to facts or statements about beliefs and expectations are forward-
looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve certain risks and uncertainties and are based on the beliefs and assumptions 
of the management of BB&T, and the information available to management at the time that this Annual Review was prepared. 
Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by such forward-looking statements include, 
among others, the following: (1) general economic or business conditions, either nationally or regionally, may be less favorable than 
expected, resulting in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality and / or a reduced demand for credit or other services; (2) 
changes in the interest rate environment may reduce net interest margins and / or the volumes and values of loans made or held 
as well as the value of other ˜nancial assets held; (3) competitive pressures among depository and other ˜nancial institutions may 
increase signi˜cantly; (4) legislative or regulatory changes, including changes resulting from the adoption and implementation of the 
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010, and changes in accounting standards, may adversely affect the 
businesses in which BB&T is engaged; (5) local, state or federal taxing authorities may take tax positions that are adverse to BB&T; 

(6) reduction in credit ratings; (7) adverse changes may occur in the securities markets; (8) competitors of BB&T may have greater 
˜nancial resources and develop products that enable them to compete more successfully than BB&T and may be subject to different 
regulatory standards than BB&T; (9) costs or dif˜culties related to the integration of the businesses of BB&T and its merger partners 
may be greater than expected; (10) unpredictable natural or other disasters could have an adverse effect on us in that such events 
could materially disrupt our operations or the ability or willingness of our customers to access the ˜nancial services we offer; (11) 
expected cost savings associated with completed mergers and acquisitions may not be fully realized or realized within the expected 
time frames; and (12) deposit attrition, customer loss or revenue loss following completed mergers and acquisitions, may be greater 

than expected. You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement and should consider all of the foregoing 
uncertainties and risk, as well as those more fully discussed under Item 1A. ﬁRisk Factors Related to BB&T™s Businessﬂ of BB&T™s 2010 
Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any of BB&T™s subsequent SEC ˜lings. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they 

are made, and BB&T undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to re˚ect the impact of circumstances or 
events that arise after the date the forward-looking statement was made.
ABOUT THE REVIEW
The BB&T Corporation 2010 Annual Review is presented 
in a summary format to provide information regarding 
the performance of BB&T in a manner that is meaningful 
and useful to the widest range of readers. The audited 
consolidated ˜nancial statements of BB&T Corporation and 
Subsidiaries and other more detailed analytical information 
regarding the Corporation are contained in the BB&T 
Corporation 2010 Annual Report on Form 10-K ˜led with 

the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
This 2010 Annual Review contains performance measures 
determined by methods other than in accordance with 
accounting principles generally accepted in the United 
States of America (ﬁGAAPﬂ). BB&T™s management uses 

these ﬁnon-GAAPﬂ measures in their analysis of the 
corporation™s performance. BB&T™s management uses 
these measures to evaluate the underlying performance 
and efficiency of its operations. It believes that these 
non-GAAP measures provide a greater understanding of 
ongoing operations and enhance comparability of results 
with prior periods as well as demonstrating the effects 

of signi˜cant gains and charges in the current period. The 
Company believes that a meaningful analysis of its ˜nancial 
performance requires an understanding of the factors 
underlying that performance. BB&T™s management believes 
that investors may use these non-GAAP ˜nancial measures 
to analyze ˜nancial performance without the impact of 
unusual items that may obscure trends in the Company™s 

underlying performance. These disclosures should not be 
viewed as a substitute for ˜nancial measures determined 
in accordance with GAAP, nor are they necessarily 
comparable to non-GAAP performance measures that may 
be presented by other companies. Tangible common equity 
and Tier 1 common equity ratios are Non-GAAP measures. 
BB&T uses the Tier 1 common equity de˜nition used in 

the SCAP assessment to calculate these ratios. BB&T™s 
management uses these measures to assess the quality of 
capital and believes that investors may ˜nd them useful in 
their analysis of the corporation. These capital measures are 
not necessarily comparable to similar capital measures that 
may be presented by other companies.
Consolidated Financial Highlights
 2To Our Shareholders
 4Corporate Board of Directors
 24Executive Management
 25Shareholder Information
 26Consolidated Balance Sheets
 28Consolidated Statements of Income
 29Selected Financial Data
 30Selected Ratios 31Market Coverage 
 32General Information
 33The 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders will 
be held on Tuesday, April 26, 2011, at 11 a.m. 
Eastern Time, at Embassy Suites, 460 North 
Cherry Street, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.TAB
LE OF CONTENTSANNUA
L MEETING2010 ANNU
AL
 REVIEW
2 2010 2009 % Change ANNUAL RESULTS         
      
Net income $  854   
$  877   
 (2.6) %Net income available to common shareholders
   816   
  729   
11.9 Net income per common share:          
 Basic   1.18    
 1.16   
 1.7   Diluted   1.16    
 1.15   
 .90  Cash dividends declared   per common share  .60    
 .92   
 (34.8)           
YEAR˚END BALANCES         
      
Assets $  157,081   
$  165,764   
 (5.2) %Securities, at carrying value   23,169    
 33,253   
 (30.3) Loans and leases   107,264     106,207   
 1.0  Deposits  
 107,213    
 114,965   
 (6.7) Shareholders™ equity   16,498    
 16,241   
 1.6  Book value per common share   23.67    
 23.47   
 .90            
AVERAGE BALANCES         
      
Assets $  159,658 
  $  155,182   
 2.9  %Securities, at amortized cost   27,610    
 31,226   
 (11.6) Loans and leases   104,787    
 102,146   
 2.6  Deposits  
 106,773    
 102,381   
 4.3  Shareholders™ equity   16,886    
 16,238   
 4.0  2010 2009 PERFORMANCE RATIOS BASED ON NET INCOME   

Return on average assets      
.54  %  .56  % Return on average equity      
4.85   
 4.93   
  
CAPITAL RATIOS         
      Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio     
 11.8   %   11.5  %  Total risk-based capital ratio      
15.5    15.8   Tier 1 leverage capital ratio      
9.1    8.5   Tangible common equity as a percentage of tangible assets(1)   
7.1   
 6.2   Tier 1 common equity as a percentage of risk-weighted assets(1)  9.1    8.5     MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION       
      
Common shares outstanding (in thousands)   
   694,381    689,750  Basic weighted average shares outstanding (in thousands)  
  
 692,489    629,583   Diluted weighted average shares outstanding (in thousands)   
 701,039    635,619   Full-time equivalent employees    
  31,354    32,394   Banking offices    
  1,782    1,857   ATMs     
 2,481    2,541BB&T Corporation and Subsidiaries 
 (Dollars in millions, except per share data)
(1) Tangible common equity and Tier 1 common equity ratios are 
 Non-GAAP measures. BB&T uses the Tier 1 common equity 
definition used in the SCAP assessment to calculate these ratios.
CONSOLIDATED
 FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTSA Brighter Direction
3SUPERIOR EARNINGS POWER 
RETURNSPRE˜T
AX PRE˜PROVI
SION RETURN ON 
ASSETS˚4, 5˛(4) Pre-tax, pre-provision earnings / Avg. Assets
(5) Peers include CMA, FITB, HBAN, KEY, MI, MTB, PNC, RF, STI, USB 
and ZION. Excludes COF. 
 Source: SNL and Company Reports
CONSISTENT LONG˜TERM 
 EARNINGS POWER
PRE˜T
AX PRE˜PROVI
SION EARNINGS˚3˛(3) As originally reported 15-year compound annual growth rate 18.1%
INDUSTRY˜
LEADING REVENUE GROWTH 
THROUGH THE CY
CLE2010 VS. 2007
˚1, 2˛(1) Adjusted for large acquisitions (BB&T/Colonial, PNC/NatCity/
Sterling/Yardville, US Bancorp/FBOP/Downey/PFF/Mellon 1st 

Business Bank, Huntington/Sky Financial, Fifth Third/First Charter/

R&G, M&T/Provident/Partner™s Trust, M&I/First Indiana, Capital One/

Chevy Chase, KeyCorp / U.S.B. Holding) and select one-time items.
(2) Peers include CMA, COF, FITB, HBAN, KEY, MI, MTB, PNC, RF, STI, 
USB and ZION. 2010 ANNU
AL
 REVIEW
4Despite enduring the most challenging period in the last 80 years, BB&T is strong, pro˜table and 
more committed than ever to aggressively helping our shareholders, clients, communities and 
employees achieve economic success and ˜nancial security.
By staying true to the vision, mission and values that have guided us for more than 135 years, 
 our company is well-positioned for the opportunities we believe are ahead in 2011 and beyond. 
We are increasingly con˜dent about our nation™s economy and marketplace Œ with the Federal 
Reserve™s economic stimulus efforts, more certainty about tax policy and other issues in 
Washington and, most importantly, greater willingness by businesses to invest and create jobs.
We believe it is time to turn the page on the tough and somber environment of the last three 
years. We believe it is time to look forward with a more positive attitude. We believe Œ actually, we 
know
 Œ BB&T is ready to lead the way to a brighter future: to provide the ˜nancial wherewithal 
 for businesses to grow and to share the knowledge that will empower all of our clients to reach 
 their ˜nancial goals Œ saving for retirement, a child™s education, an overdue vacation.
Please don™t mistake our optimism and determination for any lessening of our long commitment 
to conservative management or complacency about the challenges ahead. To the contrary, we are 
eager and prepared to move forward precisely because of our commitment to provide, ˜rst and 
foremost, a safe and sound foundation. That stability has been, is and will remain BB&T™s bedrock. 
Because we avoided many of the high-risk mortgages, esoteric investments and other practices 
that caused many other ˜nancial institutions to falter, BB&T was one of only three large regional 
banks in the country to remain pro˜table during the ﬁGreat Recession.ﬂ Our capital levels are 
among the strongest in the industry. Many of our underlying banking businesses are performing 
better than ever. We have enjoyed loan growth among the industry™s leaders while also changing 

the mix of our loan portfolio to produce less exposure to real estate and greater focus on less 
volatile commercial lending. Our other revenue-producing businesses Œ ranging from wealth 
management to mortgage and specialized lending to sales ˜nance Œ are showing strong growth. 
TO 
OUR SHAREHOLDERS:A Brighter Direction
5We continue to bene˜t from a ﬁ˚ight to qualityﬂ by winning clients from weakened competitors. We are capitalizing on the resurgence of basic 
banking Œ triggered by the problems plaguing Wall Street ˜nancial institutions Œ with double-digit growth in expanded corporate banking services. 
We have accelerated disposition of problem assets and expect continued reduction in credit costs in coming quarters. At the same time, we are 
working closely with our clients who have fallen behind on their mortgages to avoid costly foreclosures whenever possible.
Our Southeastern and Mid-Atlantic banking markets are among the best in the U.S. Our acquisition of Colonial Bank in 2009 has been very positive 
 for earnings and opened attractive new areas, including the large Texas market. We are in a strong position to grow both organically and through 
strategic acquisitions that meet our rigorous standards, both in our existing banking markets and in our related ˜nancial businesses. And, just 
 as we are helping our business clients expand and rekindle economic growth in our communities, we are adding revenue-producing jobs at 
 BB&T Œ starting with several hundred in 2011 Œ at a time when many of our competitors have been forced to lay off employees.
We have weathered these stormy times, and are ready to enjoy a brighter day, because of two powerful advantages: BB&T has the best team and the 
best value proposition in banking. Our promise to provide the best service quality in the marketplace Œ demonstrated again in 2010 by independent 
customer surveys Œ distinguishes BB&T from our competitors. BB&T™s own values for all of our employees, starting with fundamental qualities such 

as honesty and integrity, form the foundation of our value proposition. We treat our employees forthrightly and with respect. They treat our clients 
the same way. When our clients grow and prosper, we grow and prosper. It™s that simple, and that powerful. 
Our industry and our nation have endured a long and painful time. Understandably and with some justi˜cation, some have blamed the banking 
industry for contributing to the ˜nancial tumult with self-serving and short-sighted practices. In our free market system, those who made the 
 biggest mistakes suffered Œ and deserved Œ the harshest penalties. Now it™s time to move forward, informed but not impeded by the past. 
 The most important role of BB&T, and indeed the banking industry, is to help families and businesses achieve economic success and ˜nancial security. 
 We are passionate about meeting that responsibility. We are eager to do our part by helping our clients, our communities and our country regain 
their footing and their con˜dence, and again begin meeting their ˜nancial goals. At BB&T, we ˜rmly believe our best days are ahead.
Kelly S. KingChairman andChief Executive Officer2010 ANNU
AL
 REVIEW
6Record revenues, signi˜cant progress in diversifying our mix of loans and deposits and across-
the-board improvement in credit costs contributed to higher earnings in 2010 and positioned 
BB&T to continue to outperform our peers and support economic recovery in our markets in 
2011. By reducing our exposure to real estate and stepping up lending in more robust and less 
volatile sectors, we posted solid loan growth in several areas including large corporate, mortgage, 
auto ˜nance and credit cards. For example, December 2010 was the most productive month 
for commercial lending in the history of BB&T. By pursuing lower-cost deposits, we further 
diversi˜ed our balance sheet and contributed to improved results. Meanwhile, thanks in part 
to our accelerated disposition of problem assets, our 2010 results were bolstered by declines 
 in essentially all measures of credit costs in the second half of the year.
Revenues totaled $9.4 billion for 2010, an increase of 5.8% compared to last year. Net income 
available to common shareholders for the year totaled $816 million, or $1.16 per diluted share, 
re˚ecting increases of 12% and 1% respectively, compared to last year. For the third year, the 
provision for credit losses Œ while down 6.2% from a year ago Œ was the biggest drag on our 
earnings. The good news is that continued improvement in our credit quality trends, combined 
with a more positive economic outlook, should allow us to reduce the provision expense in 
2011. We experienced fourth quarter improvement ranging from early-stage indicators, such as 

our watch list and delinquencies, to nonperforming assets and losses. For example, commercial 
delinquencies declined by 39.6% in the fourth quarter compared to the third quarter of 2010. 
Nonperforming assets steadily decreased for three consecutive quarters in 2010, ending 
 the year at $4.0 billion, down 9.6% from $4.4 billion at the end of the ˜rst quarter. Increases 
 in net charge-offs also began to level off, ending the year at 2.15% excluding covered loans for the 
fourth quarter, compared to 3.54% in the third quarter. BB&T continues to lead our peer group 
with lower levels of losses over the credit cycle and superior overall credit quality. It also is worth 
noting that the Colonial Bank loan portfolio, essentially covered by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation loss-sharing protection as part of our 2009 acquisition of Colonial, continues 
 to signi˜cantly outperform our initial expectations. 
One of the drivers of improving credit quality trends is the effective execution of our problem 
assets disposition strategy. We sold approximately $600 million of problem assets in the fourth 
quarter and we are con˜dent we will liquidate the remainder of the problem assets portfolio we 

have designated for sale over the next quarter or two. Importantly, because we avoided earlier 
disposition at ˜ve or 10 cents on the dollar, average sales prices of closer to 50 cents on the dollar 
were consistent with our target price and have preserved a substantial amount of shareholder 
value. We also assisted as many of our clients as possible in working though their ˜nancial 
problems during a very dif˜cult economic environment, balancing our obligation to both our 
clients and our shareholders.
Average loans and leases increased by 2.6% compared to 2009; however, this re˚ects our strategy 
of growing commercial and industrial loans and consumer loans at a faster pace while reducing 
our exposure to real estate loans. Our mix of new loans in 2010 was 84% commercial and 16% 

real estate. In the fourth quarter of 2010, commercial lending totaled a record $10.3 billion, 
 OUR 2010 RESULTS DIVERSE REVENUE MIX˚1˛GAAP Revenues: $9.4 billion for 2010
(1) Based on segment revenues, excluding other and 
 parent/reconciling items.A Brighter Direction
7DRIVING STRONG DEPO
SIT GROWTH
AVE
RAGE TOT
AL DEPOSITSwith new commercial commitments up 89% on an annualized linked-quarter basis. Our loan 
growth compares favorably with our peers, many of which still lack the capacity or will to 
aggressively extend new credit. In contrast, BB&T extended $20.9 billion in credit during the fourth 
quarter of 2010, an increase of 54% on an annualized basis compared to the third quarter. We were 
named the Small Business Administration™s most active small business lender in our core markets 
 of North Carolina and 
Virginia in 2010, re˚ecting our commitment to support economic and job 
growth in BB&T™s communities. In 2011, we are eager to continue showing our clients, as the 
banners proclaim in front of our branches, that BB&T is ﬁStill Strong, Still 
Lending.ﬂ
Diversi˜cation of BB&T™s balance sheet on the deposit side, with more growth coming from 
lower-cost deposits, also contributed to our record net revenue and compared favorably with 
our peers. Noninterest-bearing deposits increased by 18.3% in the fourth quarter of 2010 on an 
annualized linked-quarter basis, representing 21% of client deposits, up from 18% a year earlier. 
Net new transaction accounts were up by 95% in 2010 compared to the prior year.
Our fully taxable equivalent net interest income totaled $5.5 billion in 2010, a 9.9% increase from 
a year earlier, re˚ecting lower interest expense. Our positive asset and funding mix changes also 
bene˜ted our net interest margin Œ basically the difference between the interest received on loans 
and investments and the interest paid on deposits and other funding, expressed as a percentage 
of average earnings assets. The margin, key to our pro˜tability, improved to 4.03% from 3.66% 
in 2009, due in part to better-than-expected performance on loans acquired from Colonial and 
lower deposit costs. In contrast, our peers™ margin averaged 3.51% in 2010.
BB&T™s diversi˜ed fee income-producing businesses, which represent 41.0% of total revenues, 
increased in 2010 to nearly $4 billion. We placed a lot of emphasis in building our wealth 
management and trust and investment advisory revenues, which were up by 29% and 10.5% 
respectively in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to a year earlier. Our investment banking and 
brokerage businesses also posted strong performance with record levels of equity and debt capital 
markets deals. BB&T™s insurance operations remained the biggest fee-income contributor with 

more than $1 billion in noninterest income. Despite continued softness in the industry™s pricing 
for premiums, we are increasing our market share and maintained our position as the world™s 
sixth-largest insurance broker.
BB&T™s return on average assets and return on common shareholders™ equity in 2010 were 
essentially unchanged from 2009, at .54% and 4.85% respectively. We expect both ROA and 
ROCE to improve significantly as we return to a more normalized credit cycle. Even now, 
 the ratios remain superior to our peers. For example, if we look at our pre-tax, pre-provision 

income Œ which we regard as one of the most important measures of a company™s underlying 
earnings power Œ BB&T™s ROA in 2010 was 2.24% compared to 1.83% for our peers. 
Looked 
at over the long term, BB&T™s 15-year compound annual growth rate in pre-tax, pre-provision 
earnings is 18.1%. While our 2010 results remain lower than our historical numbers Œ leaving 
plenty of room for improvement in an economic recovery Œ BB&T™s performance remains among 
the strongest in the ˜nancial services industry.
LOAN GROWTH AMONG 
 INDUSTRY 
LEADERSAVE
RAGE TOT
AL LO
ANS2010 ANNU
AL
 REVIEW
8We take our responsibility to our shareholders very seriously and I personally consider optimizing 
 the long-term return to our shareholders, while maintaining a safe and sound investment, as 
my number one priority. Unlike many companies where a large majority of shares are held by 
institutional investors, fully half of our shareholders are individuals, including people of all ages and 
income levels who have been loyal to BB&T through up and down market cycles. I understand that 
the return on their investment in BB&T is a signi˜cant portion of many of our shareholders™ personal 
incomes. I assure them that I will do all I personally can to protect and grow their investment.
We believe the best gauge of our performance is over the long term. While we are disappointed 
the BB&T share price did not re˚ect the strong performance of your company in much of 2010, 
we are proud of our long-term record of steady gains. For the period ended December 31, 2010, 
BB&T outperformed our peers over the last 3, 5, 7, 10, 15 and 20 years. For example, our 15-year 
annualized total return of 8.4% compares to 4.4% for our peers and 6.7% for the S&P 500. A $100 
investment in BB&T shares in 1995 was worth $337 on December 31, 2010 Œ signi˜cantly better 
than the S&P 500 and our other in-market peers.
Our long-term view extends to BB&T™s dividend strategy. We have paid a cash dividend every year since 
1903. We made the painful decision last year to reduce our annual dividend because we felt it was prudent 
to maintain our strong capital position in the face of the tremendous uncertainty and lower earnings 
levels that characterized the last two years. We were the last major bank to reduce our dividend, and we 
reduced it substantially less than all but one of our peers. BB&T™s 2010 annual dividend of $.60 per share 
compared favorably with many other banks that eliminated or much more sharply cut their dividends. 
 As of December 31, 2010, BB&T has the fourth-highest dividend yield among banks in the S&P 500.
Looking forward, we hope to be in the early group of banks that are in a position to increase their 

dividends. In the fourth quarter of 2010, we earned $.30 per share and paid out $.15 per share, or 
 a 50% payout. We know how much our shareholders depend on our dividends and will continue 

our strong bias toward returning capital to shareholders through a proactive dividend strategy. 
At the same time, we must balance that dividend strategy with the need to retain the capital 
required to remain safe and sound for the bene˜t of all of our stakeholders Œ our shareholders, 
clients, employees and communities. While future increases in our dividend may not be as large 
 or as soon as some shareholders hope, our commitment is to remain steady and strong over the long 

term. We believe that™s the best way to continue to reward our shareholders for their faith in BB&T.
OUR STO
CK PERFORMANCECOMPARI
SON OF THREE˜YEAR CUMULATIVE
 TOTA
L RETURN˚1˛AMONG BB&T C
ORPORATION, THE S&
P 500 
INDEX, A
ND BB&T™S PEER GROUP(1) $100 invested on 12/31/07 in stock or index, including 
 reinvestment of dividends.
DIVIDEND YIELDAS O
F DECEMBER 31, 2010
˚2˛%(2) Peers include CMA, COF, FITB, HBAN, KEY, MI, MTB, PNC, RF, STI, USB and ZION. Source: Thomson Reuters
A Brighter Direction
9Our capital levels remain among the strongest in the banking industry. Moreover, we are con˜dent 
BB&T will remain a leader in this key measure of a bank™s ˜nancial strength as regulators impose 
tougher capital standards to assure the safety and soundness of the global ˜nancial system. 
In 2010, seeking to prevent a repeat of the ˜nancial crisis that has hobbled the world economy 
over the last three years, global leaders agreed on a new set of regulatory standards (called Basel 
III because they were set by the global Basel Committee on Banking Supervision) to increase 
the quantity and quality of bank capital. Capital is the margin by which creditors are covered if 
 a bank™s assets are liquidated. U.S. regulators also have proposed new capital standards for banks, 
implementing a requirement of the sweeping ˜nancial-regulatory overhaul by Congress last 
summer. The Federal Reserve is requiring U.S. banks to show they have the capital cushions in 
place to withstand losses over the next two years and demonstrate the ability to meet the Basel 
III standards. The Fed is conducting ﬁstress testsﬂ to con˜rm banks have the ability to meet the 
new standards. Before banks are allowed to return capital to shareholders in the form of dividends, 
they must pass these tests, as well as repay any federal Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) funds 
they received to boost their capital levels during the ˜nancial crisis.
Just as BB&T exceeded the federal government™s stress test requirements in 2009 Œ designed to 
measure banks™ capability to withstand a prolonged recession Œ we are con˜dent your company 
will again exceed the rigorous capital levels required. As you will recall from last year™s report, 
BB&T was among the ˜rst ˜nancial institutions in the country to both pass the earlier stress test 
and repay the TARP investment.
We believe BB&T™s ability to generate capital internally provides the ˚exibility to meet required 
capital levels, and do not expect to issue new common equity in order to meet the new 
 capital rules.
At December 31, 2010, our Tier I risk-based capital ratio and total risk-based capital ratio were 
11.8% and 15.5%, respectively. Our Tier 1 common ratio, a measure of tangible capital and the 
ratio that regulators watch most closely, was 9.1% at December 31, 2010, compared to 8.5% one 
year ago. 
Our strong capital position enables BB&T to continue our proactive dividend strategy, and 
 gives your company the flexibility to make opportunistic and strategic investments as the 
economy strengthens.
OUR CAPITAL S
TRENGTHCAPITA
L AMONG INDUSTRY LEADER
S˚1˛TIER 1 COMMON RATIOTIER 1 RISK˜
BASED CAPITAL RATIO(1) Risk-weighted assets are determined based on regulatory 
capital requirements. Under the regulatory framework for 
determining risk-weighted assets, each asset class is assigned 
 a risk-weighting of 0%, 20%, 50% or 100% based on the 
underlying risk of the specific asset class. In addition, off 
balance sheet exposures are first converted to a balance sheet 
equivalent amount and subsequently assigned to one of the 

four risk-weightings. Tangible common equity and Tier 1 
common equity ratios are Non-GAAP measures. BB&T uses 
the Tier 1 common equity definition used in the SCAP 

assessment to calculate these ratios. BB&T™s management 
uses these measures to assess the quality of capital and 
believes that investors may find them useful in their analysis 
 of the Corporation. These capital measures are not necessarily 
comparable to similar capital measures that may be presented 
by other companies.2010 ANNU
AL
 REVIEW
10Let me say a few words about the increased ˜nancial regulation coming from Washington in the wake of the ˜nancial crisis. The Dodd-Frank 
˜nancial overhaul law passed by Congress last year includes some positive changes, namely more systemic and less fractured oversight of ˜nancial 
institution risk and progress toward eliminating the concept of ﬁtoo big to fail.ﬂ That said, I believe in their zeal to respond to admittedly excessive risk-taking by some in our industry, Washington overreached and enacted changes based on emotion rather than rational, long-term thinking. We 
are hopeful that the 2011 Congress will reexamine some of the provisions of the hastily passed 2,319-page bill. For example, we believe legislating price and product controls are inconsistent with our free-market principles and BB&T values and are harmful to shareholders. A particularly absurd and arbitrary price control is the Durbin amendment, which places restrictions on the debit interchange fees that merchants pay banks for using card networks. In addition, while we agree there is a need for consumer protection, we don™t believe a new government bureaucracy that is separate from safety and soundness considerations is needed to impose more excessive government regulation. For a ˚avor of out-of-control government 
rule-making, consider this: After passage of the Dodd-Frank law, federal agencies are now writing at least 330 new rules, and regulators will launch 

122 oversight panels and of˜ces required by the law. While many of the latest ˜nancial regulations are directed more at Wall Street ˜nancial 
institutions than Main Street commercial banks like BB&T, we believe excessive government regulation inhibits economic growth and is just 
 as harmful as excessive business risk-taking. We believe it is time to strike a better middle ground that ensures the safety and soundness of our 
˜nancial institutions Œ and enables banks to be the economic engines we need to stimulate and sustain recovery of our economy. FINANCIAL REGULATIONSALES FINANCE LOAN
SA Brighter Direction
11Rosenthal Automotive became a BB&T client when BB&T acquired First 
Virginia Bank in Falls Church, 
Va., in 2003, and Rosenthal Automotive 
Group President Don Bavely says the transition was easy. Business has ﬁgrown and grownﬂ since then, as has the banking relationship, and Bavely 
considers BB&T a long-term partner. BB&T handles the sales ˜nance side of the business by purchasing car loans from the company™s auto 
dealerships, as well as inventory ˜nancing, capital loans, credit card services, wealth management and more. ﬁBB&T is always a phone call away, 
 and if BB&T says they™ll deliver it on this day at this time at this rate, they live up to it.ﬂ 
Geraldine MendezHuman ResourcesDirector,Rosenthal AutomotiveDon Strehle
President,Northern Virginia,BB&TBonnie Glover
Vice President, Sales Finance MarketingRepresentative,
BB&TJerry H. Griffin, Esq.
General Counsel,Vice President,Secretary,
Rosenthal AutomotiveDon Bavely
Partner, President,Rosenthal AutomotiveBob RosenthalPartner, ChiefExecutive Officer,Rosenthal AutomotiveDavid A. D™Ermes
Senior Vice President,Sales Finance GroupCenter Manager,
BB&TRoy L. Giese
Senior Vice President,Corporate BankingBB&Tﬁ BB&T has always taken care of us. The executives 
are empowered to make deals for the bank, and 
when it™s time to close, I know the bank will live up 
to its commitments.ﬂ
 Don Bavely, 
President, Rosenthal Automotive 
Group
2010 ANNU
AL
 REVIEW
12For a quarter of a century of overindulgence and excessive leverage, consumers, companies and 
entire countries, including the U.S., bought beyond their means, thinking the good times would never 
end. In simple terms, we took the balance sheet of the world and in˚ated it by about 30%. For the 
last three years, we™ve been de˚ating it by 30%, causing the worst recession in 80 years.
All the pain and turmoil has underscored the importance of setting and adhering to consistent 
long-term goals. While many ˜nancial institutions, particularly on Wall Street, paid a heavy price 
for structuring and distributing unsustainable products such as subprime mortgages, BB&T avoided 
most of the problems because we adhered to our long-held values and goals.
Looking ahead, there is no shortage of challenges still facing our nation and world, including a still-fragile global economy, overreaction by politicians leading to excessive regulation, and worrisome 
levels of debt. In addition, the ˜nancial services industry faces excess capacity, growing competition and a poor public image. Over the next ˜ve to 10 years, we believe these challenges will result  in a shakeout, with three national banks and ˜ve to seven large regional banks dominating 
 the industry. We believe BB&T will both survive and thrive. We are one of the best-positioned ˜nancial services 
companies to take advantage of opportunities as the economy improves. We don™t expect to return 
to the hyped pre-recession growth rates of 10% and more, but we see solid 3% - 4% growth in 

the real Gross Domestic Product and moderate 2.1% average in˚ation over the next ˜ve years. 
 In addition, as Main Street banks get back many of the loans and other basic banking services that 

our industry lost to Wall Street ˜nancial institutions over the last 35 years, we believe your company 
will emerge as one of the biggest bene˜ciaries. 
The key to being both independent and prosperous over the long term is to create a superior 
earnings-per-share growth rate without sacrificing the fundamental quality and long-term 
competitiveness of our business, or taking unreasonable risk. For 2011, we have set five 
strategic objectives to guide us in delivering that performance Œ and achieving our ultimate goal 
 of maximizing returns for our shareholders.
OUR KEY ST
RATEGIC OBJECTIVES FOR 20112011 KEY 
STRATEGI
C OBJECTIVESDeliver the BB&T Value Promise, thereby creating 
the Perfect Client Experience
Ensure a strong employee value proposition
Effectively emerge from the credit cycle
Achieve superior revenue growth
Control costs
Winner of 19 Excellence Awards from Greenwich Associates; 
 17 national awards and 2 regional awards
Second consecutive year BB&T has received more awards than any other 
 ˜nancial institution in the nationAwards based on interviews with 14,000 U.S. small businesses 
 and 10,000 middle market companies  
Of more than 750 banks evaluated, only 34 received Excellence Awards
A Brighter Direction
13Deliver the BB&
T Value Promise, thereby creating the 
Perfect Client 
ExperienceIt is sad to see how the long ˜nancial crisis has tarnished the reputation of banks and bankers. 
Equally sad is that the reputation is deserved in cases where ˜nancial institutions™ excesses or failed 
oversight caused their clients and shareholders to lose their money, and their trust. 
So it is striking, and very encouraging, that BB&T™s overall client service and loyalty scores actually 
increased in 2010 Œ again ranking No. 1 among our in-market competitors in an independent 

survey by Maritz Research. Moreover, at a time of increased consumer complaints about mishandled 
mortgages, BB&T again ranked at the top of J.D. Power and Associates™ survey of customer 
satisfaction among primary mortgage servicers. Our small business and middle-market groups 
captured 19 excellence awards in national categories ranging from overall customer service to 
˜nancial stability to credit policy from Greenwich Associates. The list of our industry-leading 
recognitions for superior customer service extends into all facets of our business, including insurance, 
wealth management, mobile banking, capital markets, middle market and small businesses, sales 
˜nance, 401(k) retirement plan sponsorship and Œ an area that makes all the other recognitions 
possible Œ employee training.
Every BB&T employee is trained to deliver a Perfect Client Experience, de˜ned by four qualities:

ﬁI am dependable and my clients can count on me.ﬂ

 ﬁI act quickly to help my clients with their needs.ﬂ

 ﬁI listen to my clients and am sensitive to their feelings.ﬂ

 ﬁI am equipped with the skills and knowledge to help my clients.ﬂ
Unlike many bigger banks, we focus on our clients, not our products. While our larger competitors 
wake up in the morning trying to sell the products they have already developed, BB&T™s community 

bankers get up in the morning trying to figure out what their clients need, and then finding 
 a solution.We believe our relationships with our clients have grown stronger during the recession not because 
we talk more, but because we listen better. After watching the global ˜nancial meltdown wreak 
havoc, many businesses and consumers don™t want their banks to tell them what to do as they seek 
to recover. But they do recognize strong surviving banks like BB&T have valuable ˜nancial knowledge 
to share. Rather than hearing a sales spiel, these savvy clients want their banks to illuminate 

the choices, empowering them to make their own decisions. Our relationships with our clients 
increasingly are built on that shared knowledge.
As part of BB&T™s commitment to share knowledge, in 2010 we joined forces with the Financial 
Services Roundtable to deliver ˜nancial literacy education to high school students, starting with 

30 schools across North Carolina. The program is a partnership with the EverFi Financial 
Literacy 
Platform, a web-based curriculum that teaches, assesses and certi˜es students in hundreds of 
˜nancial topics. We can™t think of a better way to share knowledge that will empower our young 
people to make more informed ˜nancial decisions. 
OVERALL BRANCH SATISFAC
TION˚1˛ INDUSTRY˜LEADING C
LIENT SERVI
CEOVERALL BANK SATISFAC
TION˚1˛ (1) From Maritz Research Retail Client Satisfaction Survey, 
represent percentage of ﬁtop boxﬂ scores, indicating a 
 9 or 10 rating on a 10-point scale.
 Peers include Regions, SunTrust and Wachovia
ﬁ HIGHEST IN CU
STOMER SATI
SFACTION WITH PRIMARY 
MORTGAGE SERVI
CING.ﬂ
˚2˛(2) Branch Banking and Trust received the highest numerical score 
among mortgage servicers in the proprietary J.D. Power and 

Associates 2010 Primary Mortgage Servicer Study
SM.  Study 
based on responses from 4,516 consumers measuring 19 

companies and measures the satisfaction of consumers with 
their current mortgage servicer. Proprietary study results are 

based on experiences and perceptions of consumers surveyed in 
May-June 2010. Your experiences may vary. Visit jdpower.com
2010 ANNU
AL
 REVIEW
14For Jack Snow, President of Shef˜eld Financial, a division of BB&T, it took nine years to convince Polaris Industries that his company was big enough 
to handle the installment lending needs of Polaris™ 1,500 dealerships that sell AT
Vs, snowmobiles and other power sports equipment nationwide. 
The opportunity came when Polaris™ other lenders pulled back during the economic downturn and Shef˜eld Financial stepped up. Since then, 
Shef˜eld has become the primary lender for Polaris. Snow credits Shef˜eld™s exceptional customer service, including the promise that a live person 

will answer every call during business hours. Kelly Clawson, Manager of Financial Services at Polaris, agrees, adding that Shef˜eld™s ˚exibility, unique 
˜nance offerings and Southern hospitality Œ including sending pecan pies and honey-baked hams Œ has won over Polaris and its dealers.
ﬁ During the recession, both of our other banks 
pulled back. Shef˜eld stepped in, gave us access 
to ˜nancing, ramped up programs quickly and 
helped our dealers move metal.ﬂ
 K
elly Clawson, 
Manager of Financial Services, 
Polaris IndustriesBennett J. MorganPresident and Chief Operating Officer,Polaris Industries Inc.Scott A. Swenson
Vice President Snowmobiles and Parts,Garments andAccessories,
Polaris Industries Inc.Anne J. OsborneVice President, Sales Support Officer,Sheffield FinancialKelly Clawson
Manager ofFinancial Services,Polaris Industries Inc.Jack Snow
President and Chief Executive Officer,Sheffield FinancialScott W. Wine
Chief Executive Officer,Polaris Industries Inc.A Brighter Direction
15Ensure a strong employee value proposition
The essence of success for a company is to create value. We could not create value without our employees, who deliver the best value proposition in the 
marketplace by providing the best service quality. 
Thus, it is vitally important that BB&T values its employees. To make sure we never lose sight of the importance of our employees, for 2011 BB&T™s 
management team has added an employee value proposition as a strategic objective. We recognize that, like our clients, our employees can decide to 
leave BB&T at any time if we fail to show how much we value them. By many measures, we believe we deliver on our employee value proposition. We 

have historically had very low turnover Œ 12% in 2010, superior to our peers. We win top industry awards for our training and productivity. Unlike many 
competitors that have slashed employee pay and bene˜ts during the ˜nancial crisis, BB&T has continued to give raises and offer generous healthcare and 
other employee bene˜ts. We are one of the few companies with a retirement program offering both a pension and employer-matched 401(k) plan.We want to ˜nd ways to make BB&T an even better place for our employees. We believe a key to sustaining a value proposition with our employees is to 
focus on their sense of well-being Œ certainly whether they™re feeling good about their jobs and workplaces, but also about their health, family, ˜nancial 

situation and social interaction with others. We believe a key ingredient is how engaged employees feel, with colleagues at work and with others in their 
communities. That™s why we encourage team activities like playing softball together and volunteering together on community projects. 
We also believe BB&T™s culture is crucial to sustaining a strong employee value proposition Œ a culture we spend a lot of time communicating with our 
employees. We have 10 core values that we believe in and have shared with our employees for a long time. 
We think about those values in four areas: character, judgment, success and happiness. Therefore, at home and at work, we stress the importance of strong 
character, focusing on honesty and integrity. We stress good judgment and good decision-making based on reality, reason and independent thinking. We 
want our employees to be successful, just as we want BB&T to be successful. If an employee is not successful, we™re forthright in saying our partnership with 
them won™t work out long-term. Success requires individual productivity, a willingness to work together and a commitment to justice. We say very clearly to 
our employees: those who produce the most will be rewarded the most. 
Most importantly, we want our employees to be happy because happiness is a function of self-esteem and pride in how we live our lives. We believe 
that sense of happiness is essential so employees can learn, grow and be ful˜lled in their work. That™s a key part of our mission, which is crucial for us 
 to optimize the long-term return to our shareholders.We believe our commitment to our values, our employees and our value proposition helped guide us through the terrible ˜nancial crisis of the last three 
years. At times of great volatility, it™s vital for a company and its employees to know instinctively what is okay to change, and what is not okay to change. 
Everyone at BB&T knows we have three non-negotiables: our values, our mission and our vision of creating the best ˜nancial institution possible. Tactics and 
strategies often change Œ particularly during times of volatility Œ but that™s the reality of dealing with the dynamics of a changing world. By staying true to 
our non-negotiables, we recognized it was inconsistent with everything we believe in to put people in homes they could not afford, pass along unsustainable 
mortgages to investors and engage in other overleveraging practices that led to the ˜nancial crisis. We believe a strong employee value proposition ultimately 
will separate the winners from the losers in our industry, whatever the economic environment. 
OUR VISIONTo Create the Best Financial 
Institution PossibleﬁThe Best of 
The Bestﬂ
OUR MISSIONTo Make the 
World a Better Place to Live, By:











 












 
OUR VA
LUES2010 ANNU
AL
 REVIEW
16McPherson Oil became BB&T™s ˜rst large commercial account in the state of Alabama, with BB&T serving as the lead agent bank in McPherson™s 
loan-syndication. McPherson made this change to BB&T after many years with another local bank and in the midst of volatility in the ˜nancial 
markets. The decision to change banks was made prior to BB&T™s acquisition of Colonial Bank. The strategic acquisition of Colonial Bank gave BB&T 
22 of˜ces in Birmingham alone and about 100 of˜ces in the state and surrounding region and further af˜rmed McPherson™s decision in selecting 

BB&T. ﬁWe were looking for a ˜nancially strong bank with a local presence and a focus on our geographic markets,ﬂ said Ken McPherson, President. 
ﬁWe wanted a bank with a desire to partner with us for growth and one that could understand our business so they could better serve our needs.ﬂ
Bradley G. GrayExecutive Vice PresidentFinance and Operations,McPherson OilDontá L. Wilson
President,BB&T of AlabamaC. Ken McPherson, Jr.President,McPherson OilCharles McPherson, Sr.Chief Executive Officer 
and Chairman,McPherson OilBurton McDonald
Alabama Corporate 
Banking Manager,BB&Tﬁ All of our banking and treasury needs are provided by BB&T, 
and we selected them because they exhibited a true desire 
to be our banking partner, not just our bank.ﬂ
 K
en McPherson, President, 
McPherson Oil A Brighter Direction
17Lighthouse Project
Our employees have shown that creating value for their communities can be measured in other ways beyond loans or deposits. Through BB&T™s 
Lighthouse Project over the past two years, our employees have volunteered nearly 100,000 hours and completed more than 2,100 projects in 
25 states, helping more than three million people in our communities cope with tough economic times. Their volunteer projects have ranged 
from organizing food drives and renovating day-care centers to donating school supplies and helping military families cope when a parent is 
serving overseas. The Financial Services Roundtable, which represents 100 of the largest U.S. ˜nancial services companies, presented BB&T 
with its ﬁ2010 
Leadership in Community Service Awardﬂ for the greatest percentage of employees volunteering for community projects. I™m 
proud of our employees for the recognition, but prouder still of their initiative in helping their neighbors who are facing ˜nancial and other 
hardships. Employees invariably tell me serving their community is as personally rewarding to them as their time and BB&T™s ˜nancial support 
 is to our partner community organizations. We are committed to continuing this outreach in 2011.ﬁ It™s partners like BB&T that are really 
the miracle. All season long, they 
delivered a ‚three-peat™ Œ ˜nancial 
support, uniforms for all the kids and 
buddies for all the games.ﬂ
Steve Grey, Board President, Miracle League DFW
Regional Acceptance Employees
LEFT TO RIGHT: Leagh Holloman, Towanda Farmer, Wanda McCroskey
ﬁ Our volunteers have been so moved 
by Backpack Buddies and energized 
by getting together every week to 
pack up and deliver the bags. We feel 
blessed to be part of it.ﬂ
Betsy Davis, Senior Vice President, BB&T Wealth Division











made that dream come true for 75 children and their families as sponsor 



























































eat outside of the breakfasts and lunches provided by their schools during 







decided to support the Backpack Buddies program in their community by 

purchasing, packaging and delivering bags of nonperishable foods to their 


































MIRAC
LE LEAGUE
 OF DALLAS-FORT
 W
ORTH
DALLAS-FORT
 WORTH
, T
EXASBACKPACK
 BUDDIESWILSON, N
ORTH
 CARO
LINA2010 ANNU
AL
 REVIEW
18Effectively emerge from the credit cycle
Our top priority is to remain laser-focused on managing down credit costs. As a result of our 
aggressive program to dispose of problem assets Œ accelerated in 2010 Œ we have substantially 
reduced the level of problem assets. We expect this trend to continue in 2011, enabling your 
company to emerge from this long down cycle with signi˜cantly improved earnings.
Our conservative lending strategy has not wavered, with selective and long-standing client 
relationships, loan underwriting discipline, geographic diversi˜cation and strict limits on project 
size. Throughout the challenging times of the last three years, BB&T™s overall credit quality has 
remained superior to our peers and the national average. 
While our clients experienced fewer problems at the outset of the recession because of BB&T™s 
higher-quality loan book, they too experienced more problems as the downturn deepened. But 

unlike many of our competitors, BB&T did not sell off our higher level of nonperforming assets at 
a time of plummeting values. It made no sense for us to give away shareholder value by deeply 
discounting our assets at a time when BB&T continued to have strong capital levels. Rather, we 
waited until pricing improved later in 2010, and then moved quickly with an expanded problem 
asset management team. We have sold $1.9 billion of problem assets off of our balance sheet 
in 2010. We continue to aggressively reduce our exposure to real estate in markets showing the 
greatest stress, including Florida, Atlanta and the Washington, D.C., metropolitan area. We have 
repositioned our balance sheet to reduce exposure to volatile real estate markets. 
We are encouraged by improvement in our underlying credit trends. Our watch list of problem 
assets peaked in the spring of 2010 and has been declining. The rate of growth of nonperforming 
assets continued to decline throughout 2010, and we expect to see net nonperforming assets 
steadily decline in 2011. Starting in the third quarter 2010, we have not had to build our 
allowance for problem assets for the ˜rst time in the cycle. We are methodically reducing our 

exposure to foreclosed property, with the inventory of bank-owned real estate at the lowest level 
since the second quarter of 2009.
We work closely with our clients as we reduce BB&T™s problem loans. For example, under the 
federal government™s Home Affordable Modification Program to assist homeowners facing 
˜nancial hardships, we successfully modi˜ed the terms of more than 70% of BB&T mortgages in 
the program, compared to a 20% average for the banking industry. We view residential mortgages 
as a critical service for our long-term banking clients. BB&T™s mortgage business is fully integrated 

into our community banking model. We primarily originate mortgages for our own portfolio and 
retain the servicing rather than sell the mortgages to other institutions. Because of this lower-risk 
structure, we avoided overheated securitization, ﬁrobo-signedﬂ foreclosures and other aggressive 
mortgage practices that have caused problems and controversy for many ˜nancial institutions.
In all of our efforts to effectively emerge from this dif˜cult credit cycle, we have sought solutions 
in the best interest of our clients, communities and shareholders Œ solutions that are consistent 
with our values. We offer loans appropriate for every borrower, and work with our mortgage 
clients to keep them in their homes wherever possible. We avoid undermining property values 
in the communities we serve by not dumping properties on the market at pennies on the dollar. 
In the end, we believe those efforts also meet our mission to our shareholders to maximize the 
return on BB&T™s investments and position us for greater earnings momentum in 2011.
NONPERFORMING ASSETS DECREASE 
FOR THIRD CONSECUTIVE QUARTER
˚1˛ 
(1)  Excludes covered and government guaranteed assets.
A Brighter Direction
19Achieve superior revenue growth
Revenue growth is essential for a bank to emerge from any tough cycle with strong earnings 
momentum. While many of our competitors have been forced to focus on deeply troubled loan 
portfolios over the past three years, BB&T engineered strong growth in key revenue-producing 
areas in both our core banking operations and fee-income businesses. Between 2007 and 2010, 
BB&T ranked No. 1 among our peers, with 18.9% revenue growth excluding securities gains and 
our Colonial acquisition. We expect to build on this success by hiring several hundred additional 
revenue-producing employees in 2011.
 We owe much of our success to our diversi˜ed business model, which is balanced approximately 
50-50 between retail and commercial lending and delivers a less volatile and more predictable 
revenue and earnings stream. Another important driver is our community banking structure, 
which combines the service quality of community banks and the ef˜ciencies of consolidated 
back-of˜ce operations. Our 36 community banks generated 60% of BB&T™s revenue in 2010. In 
addition, our 12-state footprint concentrated in the Southeast and Mid-Atlantic enjoys among 
the fastest growth in population, household formation and household income growth. 
A key part of our revenue growth strategies is the changing mix of our loan and deposit portfolios. 
On the loan side, as we control our concentrations in real estate, we are aggressively pursuing 
business in fast-growing Œ and less volatile Œ sectors. For example, while loan growth is fairly ˚at 
in the aggregate, we have enjoyed very strong growth in areas where we have added resources 
Œ corporate banking, mortgage and certain specialized lending segments. Corporate banking has 

been an area of major emphasis for us, and the timing couldn™t be better. Many of the national 
˜nancial services companies that traditionally dominate corporate banking stumbled or failed 
during the last ˜nancial crisis. At the same time, BB&T has emerged as a top 10 bank with the 
capital strength and products to meet the need of corporations that are beginning to borrow 
again as the economy shows signs of improvement. In 2011, we expect 3% to 5% overall growth 
in loans held for investment, with a faster pace in non-real estate portfolios.
On the deposit side, as pricing has become very sensitive on certi˜cates of deposit, we have 
deliberately not pushed expensive CDs while aggressively seeking transaction and non-interest-
bearing deposits. While we have allowed more expensive CD accounts to run off, we don™t 
believe we have lost client relationships because of our industry-leading service quality. In 2011, 
 we expect overall deposit growth of 1% to 3%, with double-digit growth in transaction 
 account deposits. 
In another bright spot in our revenue story, bundled services to small businesses, where we 
typically start with a checking account and then add other services, increased by 25% in 2010 
over the previous year. We also are rapidly expanding our wealth management business, which 
operates 24 regional teams offering services ranging from ˜nancial and estate planning to trust 
and philanthropic counsel. Its revenues were up 29% in the fourth quarter compared to the same 
period last year. Mortgage lending had a phenomenal year in 2010, particularly in the fourth 
quarter when we originated $8.4 billion in loans. Our diversi˜ed group of niche lending businesses 
also contributes importantly to our revenue growth. Among them are automobile finance, 
insurance premium ˜nance and small-ticket consumer ˜nance.
BB&T 18.9 % Peer 1 16.5  
Peer 2 9.0  
Peer 3 9.0  
Peer 4 8.5  
Peer 5  7.9  
Peer 6 5.6  
Peer 7 4.3  
Peer 8 (2.5)  
Peer 9 (3.8)  
Peer 10 (6.2)  
Peer 11 (12.3)  
Peer 12 (15.0)  
INDUSTRY˜
LEADING REVENUE GROWTH 
THROUGH THE 
CYCLE2010 VS. 2007
˚1, 2˛ 
(1) Adjusted for large acquisitions (BB&T/Colonial, PNC/NatCity/
Sterling/Yardville, US Bancorp/FBOP/Downey/PFF/Mellon 

1st Business Bank, Huntington/Sky Financial, Fifth Third/First 

Charter/R&G, M&T/Provident/Partner™s Trust, M&I/First Indiana, 

Capital One/Chevy Chase, KeyCorp / U.S.B. Holding) and select 

one-time items.(2) Peers include CMA, COF, FITB, HBAN, KEY, MI, MTB, PNC, RF, 
STI, USB and ZION.
2010 ANNU
AL
 REVIEW
20In 1998, successful entrepreneur Maurice Slaughter was interviewing ˜nancial institutions so he could become the ˜rst African-American in the 
country to own a Harley-Davidson dealership. For him, BB&T stood out. ﬁThey wanted to understand my business and where I saw myself in 
the next ˜ve, 10 or 20 years,ﬂ he said. ﬁAnd when it came to decision-making, it was local, and that went a long way for me.ﬂ Today, Slaughter™s 
relationship with BB&T runs deep. As both a business and wealth management client, he relies on BB&T for retirement, estate and life planning. 
 He also appreciates that BB&T took the time to ask hard questions and educate him and his family on how to prepare for whatever the future 

brings. For his daughter, Tiara, that means continuing the banking relationship her father started, by relying on BB&T to be there for her and 
 the Sugar Rush Candy Store she recently opened in Alpharetta, Ga.
Ray PerryVice President and General Manager,Harley-Davidson
MS Family DealershipsScarlet Floyd
Controller,Harley-DavidsonMS Family DealershipsMark D. Smith
Senior Vice PresidentCity Executive VI,BB&TKevin Johnson
President and Chief Operating Officer,Harley-Davidson
MS Family DealershipsAlfred W. Craft, III
Senior Vice PresidentWealth Management Team Director,
BB&T Wealth ManagementMaurice D. Slaughter
Chief Executive Officer, 
Dealer and Owner,Harley-Davidson
MS Family Dealershipsﬁ As an entrepreneur, you want a 
bank that™s strong enough to help 
you grow, but has the mentality 
and intimacy to want to know you 
and your business needs. It™s been 
a great ride with BB&T.ﬂ
 M
aurice Slaughter, C
EO of MS Family Dealerships / owner of three 
Harley-Davidson dealerships in 
Virginia and 
North Carolina.
A Brighter Direction
21Contribution of Colonial Bank
Our 2009 acquisition of Colonial Bank, seamlessly converted to BB&T™s systems and values, has exceeded both our strategic and ˜nancial objectives. With $25 billion in assets and 350 branches, it was twice the size of any of our previous acquisitions and has returned similarly outsized 
bene˜ts. Loss-sharing agreements with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation substantially protected BB&T from Colonial™s problem assets. At December 31, 2010, we estimate that we 
have an additional $2.4 billion of accretable yield to ˚ow to earnings in the next two to three 
years from a strong performance from assets acquired in the Colonial transaction.
BB&T™s broader array of products and services has created signi˜cant growth and cross-selling opportunities, particularly in Alabama and Florida where the acquisition moved BB&T™s deposit 
market share into the top ˜ve position in those states Œ our strategic goal for all of our markets. In addition to expanding our presence in Alabama, Florida and Georgia, it provided an important 
strategic toehold in the vast Texas market. We picked up 22 branches in Dallas/Fort Worth and Austin and are building a statewide corporate banking presence with particular emphasis on 
serving the energy sector in Houston. We believe the acquisition will be a springboard for growth 
organically and by acquisition in one of the nation™s biggest and richest states.
In addition to the Texas market, we will be alert for bank acquisition opportunities that enhance 
our market share in our existing banking footprint as well as non-bank purchases that expand our 
related ˜nancial businesses. We will look for opportunities to diversify our banking markets. For 
example, to complement our fast-growth markets, we are interested in areas such as the Midwest, 

where an established manufacturing base and deeply rooted residents breed longtime client 
relationships. That said, we are wary of recent evidence of pricing exuberance, and will insist any 
acquisition meet our three tests: Is it strategically compelling? Does it avoid adding material asset 
risk? Will it be meaningfully accretive to our shareholders?
COLONIAL ACQUISITION DRIVE
S  MARGIN GROWTH
˚1˛(1) Peers include CMA, FITB, HBAN, KEY, MI, MTB, PNC, RF, STI, 
USB and ZION. Excludes COF.
2010 ANNU
AL
 REVIEW
22Control costs
Tightly controlling cost in this slow-growth environment is just as crucial as ˜nding new sources 
of revenue.
We were faced with some uncontrollable costs in 2010 as we accelerated disposition of problem 
assets and responded to increased government regulation, contributing to a 15% increase 
 in noninterest expense in 2010 over a year earlier.
But we remain relentless in ˜nding ways to limit costs we can control, such as extending our 
centralized sourcing, procurement and contract management throughout BB&T. 
We expect ˚at or slightly reduced noninterest expenses in 2011 as we bene˜t from lower credit costs. For example, foreclosed property expense declined for the second consecutive quarter 
 in the fourth quarter of 2010 as we had fewer writedowns than prior quarters.
Key to BB&T™s success in this area is an ef˜cient and stable workforce. A historically low turnover 
rate Œ 12% Œ is important in reducing personnel costs, building solid long-term relationships with 

our clients, and increasing productivity. Net revenue per FTE increased by 9.3% in 2010 compared 
to last year.
Our overall ef˜ciency ratio Œ which measures expenses as a percentage of revenues, so lower 
percentages re˚ect improved performance Œ was 53.9% in 2010, compared to 50.4% a year 

earlier, in part because of incentive expenses to capture new business in mortgages and capital markets, but largely due to credit and regulatory costs. We expect to move the ratio back to the low 50% range in two to three years. We continue to outperform our peers in this ratio. Our 

peers™ average ef˜ciency ratio deteriorated to 60.9% in 2010 from 59.6% the prior year.
Even as the economy shows signs of improvement, we cannot become complacent about cost 
control. With lending growth still relatively sluggish, and new federal laws limiting bank fees, 
weaker banks have had to resort to layoffs to cut costs. In contrast, BB&T has been able to largely 

retain our workforce, continue to invest in employee development programs Œ and we are now 
 in a position to add several hundred jobs in revenue-producing areas in 2011.
DELIVERING ALL COMPONENT
S  OF PRO
FITABI
LITYSTRONG FEE INCOME RATIO˚1˛STRONG EFFICIENCY RATIO˚1˛(1) Peers include CMA, COF, FITB, HBAN, KEY, MI, MTB, PNC, RF, 
STI, USB and ZION. 
 Source: SNL and Company Reports
A Brighter Direction
In closing, I want to express my deepest appreciation to four members of our corporate board 
of directors who retired as of December 31, 2010, after reaching our mandatory retirement age 
of 70. Barry Fitzpatrick, 
Vincent Hackley, James Maynard and Albert McCauley made enormous 
contributions to BB&T™s success over many years Œ a combined 67 years of tireless service on our 

corporate board. In particular, I want to thank James Maynard for 25 years of service on our board, 
including serving as Chair of our Executive Committee and as our ˜rst 
Lead Director. We wish 
them well and I welcome their continued involvement, advice and counsel.
Jane Helm has replaced Mr. Maynard as lead director on the corporate board. A BB&T corporate director since 1997, Ms. Helm has extensive ˜nancial experience after serving as the functional 
equivalent of a chief financial officer to major universities for more than 28 years. She 
 was Vice Chancellor of Business Affairs at Appalachian State University for 12 years until her 

retirement in 2006.
In addition, I want to welcome 
Valeria 
Lynch 
Lee to the corporate board. I™ve known and admired 
her for years, through her eight years as a board member of our principal subsidiary, Branch 
Banking and Trust Company, and by working together on economic development for North 
Carolina. She has been involved in all stages of business development, from program director 
for the Z. Smith Reynolds Foundation to the ˜rst president of Golden 
L.E.A.F. Inc., a foundation 
that provides grants primarily to economic-development projects. She is now chief executive 
 of Applied Behavioral Concepts for Families 
LLC, a start-up company that provides services 
 to North Carolina™s Edgecombe and Nash counties.
I also want to thank my colleagues on our phenomenal executive leadership team for guiding us 
through the most challenging business cycle of our lifetimes, while at the same time preparing BB&T 
to take advantage of the best opportunity of our lifetimes. We have worked seamlessly together for 
most of our careers, with an average of 27 years experience at BB&T. 
While many other ˜nancial institutions remain hunkered down under the weight of past excesses, 
BB&T has many good reasons for optimism as we emerge from the Great Recession. We are 
aggressively managing our credit costs. We have diversi˜ed our balance sheet and invested in 
our fee-income businesses to tap fast-growing revenue opportunities. Our community banking 
structure, staffed by our well-trained, enthusiastic employees, provides unmatched service 
quality. Our Southeast and Mid-Atlantic markets are among the fastest growing in the nation, 

and our Colonial acquisition provides a springboard for expansion into the Texas market. Most 
importantly, we have the best value proposition in the marketplace, and the best team to deliver 
that proposition to our clients. 
After weathering the worst banking environment in 80 years, we are ready and eager to turn 
the page in 2011 and beyond. Guided by our values, and with the continuing support of our 
employees, clients, shareholders and board members, I have never been more con˜dent that our 
best days are ahead. Thank you for your support!
Kelly S. King
Chairman and Chief Executive Of˜cer
 February 22, 2011
THANK YOU 
232010 ANNU
AL
 REVIEW
24John A. Allison I
VDistinguished Professor of Practice

Wake Forest University

Retired Chairman and
Chief Executive Of˜cer
BB&T Corporation

Winston-Salem, N.C. 
Jennifer S. Banner
Chief Executive Of˜cer

Schaad Companies 
LLC and 
 President and CEO
 SchaadSource 
LLC
Knoxville, Tenn.
K. David Boyer, Jr.
Chief Executive Of˜cer

GlobalWatch Technologies, Inc.
Oakton, 
Va.Anna R. Cablik
President

Anasteel & Supply Company, 
LLC and Anatek, Inc.
Marietta, Ga.
Ronald E. Deal 
Chairman 

Wesley Hall, Inc.

Hickory, N.C.
J. 
Littleton Glover, Jr.
President and 

Chief Executive Of˜cer

Batson-Cook Development Co.

Attorney

Glover & Davis, P.A.

Newnan, Ga.
Jane P. Helm 
Retired 
Vice Chancellor of Business Affairs

Appalachian State University

Arden, N.C. 
John P. Howe III, M.D.

President and 
 Chief Executive Of˜cer

Project HOPE 
(Health Opportunities 
for People Everywhere)

Washington, D.C.
Kelly S. King
Chairman and 
 Chief Executive Of˜cer
BB&T Corporation
Winston-Salem, N.C.
Valeria 
Lynch 
LeeChief Executive Of˜cer
Applied Behavioral Concepts 
 for Families, 
LLCRocky Mount, N.C.
J. Holmes Morrison 
Retired Chairman, 

President and 

Chief Executive Of˜cer
One Valley Bancorp, Inc.
Charleston, W.
Va.Nido R. Qubein
President

High Point University

ChairmanGreat Harvest Bread Co.
High Point, N.C.
Thomas E. Skains
Chairman, 

President and 

Chief Executive Of˜cer
Piedmont Natural 
Gas Company, Inc.

Charlotte, N.C. 

(Not pictured)
Thomas N. Thompson 

President

Thompson Homes, Inc.

Representative
Kentucky House of
 Representatives
Owensboro, Ky.
Stephen T. Williams 
President and 

Chief Executive Of˜cer
WilcoHess, 
LLC 
President

A.T. Williams Oil Co.

Winston-Salem, N.C.
CORPORATE BOARD O
F DIRECTO
RSSTANDING LEFT TO RIGHT: Stephen T. Williams, John A. Allison IV, K. David Boyer, Jr., Kelly S. King, Thomas N. Thompson, Ronald E. Deal, Jennifer S. BannerSEATED LEFT TO RIGHT: Anna R. Cablik, John P. Howe III, M.D., Valeria Lynch Lee, J. Holmes Morrison, Nido R. Qubein, Jane P. Helm, J. Littleton Glover, Jr.A Brighter Direction
25Daryl N. BibleSenior Executive 

Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer Ricky K. Brown

Senior Executive 

Vice President 
 and 
President, 
 Community Banking
Barbara F. Duck 

Senior Executive 
Vice President and 
Enterprise Risk Manager
 Donna C. Goodrich
Senior Executive Vice 
 President and 

Deposit Services Manager Robert E. Greene 
Senior Executive 
Vice 
 President and 

Administrative 
Group  Manager
Christopher 
L. Henson
Chief Operating Officer
 
Kelly S. King 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Clarke R. Starnes III
Senior Executive 

Vice President and 

Chief Risk OfficerSteven B. Wiggs 
Senior Executive 

Vice President
 and 
Chief Marketing Officer
  and Lending Group ManagerC. 
Leon Wilson III
Senior Executive 

Vice President and 
Operations Division Manager
 STANDING LEFT TO RIGHT: Clarke R. Starnes III, Christopher L. Henson, Kelly S. King, Ricky K. Brown, Daryl N. BibleSEATED LEFT TO RIGHT: Steven B. Wiggs, Barbara F. Duck, C. Leon Wilson III, Robert E. Greene, Donna C. GoodrichEXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT2010 ANNU
AL
 REVIEW
26SHAREHOLDER RETURNDEPICTS $100 INVESTED AT 12/31/95 
AND HELD TH
ROUGH 12/31/10 WITH 
DIVIDENDS REINVESTED IN THE 
SECURITY O
R INDEXQUARTER
LY SUMMARY O
F MARKET PRICES AND CA
SH DIVIDENDS DECLARED ON COMMON STO
CK  2010 2009 Quarter Ended H
igh Low Last Declared
 H
igh Low Last Declared
 March 31 $ 32.93  $ 25.40  $ 32.39  $ .15  $ 27.72  $ 12.90  $ 16.92  $  
.47 June 30  35.72   
26.18   
26.31   
.15   
28.67   
16.27   
21.98    
.15 September 30  28.69   
21.72   
24.08   
.15   
29.81   
19.83   
27.24    
.15 December 31  27.57   
22.15   
26.29   
.15   
28.66   
23.75   
25.37    
.15                   
Year $ 35.72  $ 21.72  $ 26.29  $ .60  $ 29.81  $ 12.90  $ 25.37  $  
.92CashDividendsCashDividendsSELECTED MARKET INFORMATION
 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 Market capitalization (in billions) 
 $   18.26   
 $   17.50 
  
 $   15.36   
 $   16.74 
  
 $   23.79   
Book value per share 
  23.67    
 23.47    
 23.16 
   
 23.14 
   
 21.69   Dividend yield at year-end 
  2.28  
 %   
 2.36   %   
 6.85   %   
 6.00   %   
 3.82   %  Dividend payout ratio 
  50.8    
 79.3    
 68.5    
 56.8    
 57.8 
 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION
A Brighter Direction
27
PURPOSE 
BB&T™s ultimate purpose is to create 
 superior, long-term economic rewards 
 for our shareholders.
STO
CK PERFORMANCEThe graph on page 26 re˚ects the performance 
of a $100 investment in BB&T™s stock since 
December 31, 1995, the year-end following the 
completion of the BB&T and Southern National 
Corporation merger-of-equals, in comparison 
with other regional competitors, the S&P 500 
Commercial Banks Index and the S&P 500.
Source: Bloomberg
STO
CK EXCHANGE 
 AND TRADING SYMBO
LThe common stock of BB&T Corporation 
 is traded on the New York Stock Exchange 

under the symbol BBT. 
DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLANThe Dividend Reinvestment Plan enables 
shareholders to reinvest dividends and/or 
 invest additional cash in full or fractional 
 shares of BB&T Corporation on a regular basis. 
For more information, contact Shareholder 
Services in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, 
 at 336-733-3477 or 800-213-4314.DIVIDEND YIELDAS O
F DECEMBER 31, 2010
˚1˛(1) Peers include CMA, COF, FITB, HBAN, KEY, MI, MTB, PNC, RF, STI, USB and ZION. Source: Thomson Reuters
%2010 ANNU
AL
 REVIEW
28 December 31,
 2010 2009 ASSETS    Cash and due from banks
 $ 1,127  $ 1,584   Interest-bearing deposits with banks
  931   667   Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements or similar arrangements
  
327   398   Segregated cash due from banks
  309   270   Trading securities at fair value
  633   636   Securities available for sale at fair value ($1,539 and $1,201 covered by FDIC loss share
  
     
at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively)
  23,169   33,253   L
oans held for sale ($3,176 and $2,551 at fair value at December 31, 2010 and 
  
     
December 31, 2009, respectively)
  3,697   2,551   L
oans and leases ($6,194 and $8,019 covered by FDIC loss share 
       
at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively)
  103,567   103,656   Allowance for loan and lease losses
  (2,708)  (2,600)   L
oans and leases, net of allowance for loan and lease losses 
  100,859   101,056     FDIC loss share receivable
  1,922   3,062   Premises and equipment
  1,840   1,583  Goodwill   6,008   6,053   Core deposit and other intangible assets
  508   640   Residential mortgage servicing rights at fair value
  830   832   Other assets ($360 and $215 of foreclosed property and other assets covered 
       
by FDIC loss share at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively)
  14,921   13,179      Total assets
 $ 157,081  $ 165,764            LIABILITIES AND SH
AREHOLDERS™ EQUITY         Deposits:   
    Noninterest-bearing deposits
 $ 20,637  $ 18,945    Interest-bearing deposits
  86,576   96,020      Total deposits
  107,213   114,965        Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements
        
and short-term borrowed funds
  5,673   8,106   L
ong-term debt  21,730   21,376   Accounts payable and other liabilities
  5,967   5,076      Total liabilities
   140,583   149,523         
   Shareholders™ equity:
       
Common stock, $5 par
  3,472   3,449    
Additional paid-in capital
  5,776   5,620    Retained earnings
  7,935   7,539    
Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of deferred income taxes 
    
of $(452) at December 31, 2010 and $(257) at December 31, 2009
  (747)  (417)   Noncontrolling interest
  62   50      Total shareholders™ equity
  16,498   16,241      
Total liabilities and shareholders™ equity
 $ 157,081  $ 165,764              Common shares outstanding
  694,381   689,750   Common shares authorized
  2,000,000   1,000,000   Preferred shares authorized
  5,000   5,000    BB&T Corporation and Subsidiaries 
 (Dollars in millions, except per share data, shares in thousands)
CONSOLIDATED
 BA
LANCE SHEETSA Brighter Direction
29 Year Ended December 31,
 2010 2009 2008 INTEREST INCOMEInterest and fees on loans and leases
 $  6,080  $ 5,547 $ 6,003Interest and dividends on securities
  1,019   1,319   1,135Interest on other earning assets
  16   18    69    
 Total interest income
   7,115  6,884    7,207    
INTEREST EXPENSE       
     Interest on deposits
  917   1,271   1,891Interest on federal funds purchased, securities sold under 
  repurchase agreements and short-term borrowed funds
  
22   58    235 Interest on long-term debt
  856   711    843   
 Total interest expense
   1,795   2,040    2,969     
NET INTEREST INCOME  5,320   4,844    4,238Provision for credit losses
  2,638   2,811   1,445    NET INTEREST INCOME AF
TER PROVI
SION 
  FOR CREDIT LOSSES  2,682   2,033   2,793    NONINTEREST INCOME   Insurance commissions
  1,041   1,047   928Service charges on deposits
  618   690  
673 Investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions
  
352   346   354 Mortgage banking income
   521    658   275 Checkcard fees
  274    227    201Other nondeposit fees and commissions
  270    229    189Bankcard fees and merchant discounts
  177   156    151 Trust and investment advisory revenues
  159   139    147Securities gains, net
  554   199    107 Income from bank-owned life insurance
  123    97   84 FDIC loss share income, net
   (116)   14   ŒOther income, net
   (16)  132   88     Total noninterest income
   3,957    3,934   3,197    NONINTEREST EXPENSE       
     Personnel expenses
  2,616   2,517    2,201Foreclosed property expense
  747   356    79Occupancy and equipment expenses
  608    579    509Professional services 
  334   262    204Regulatory charges
  211  230   30Loan processing expenses
  180    135    125 Amortization of intangibles
  122   114    100Software expenses
  117  94   74Merger-related and restructuring charges, net
  69    38    15 Other expenses
  666   606   574    
 Total noninterest expense
  5,670   4,931    3,911    
INCOME BEFORE INCOME T
AXES   969   1,036   2,079 Provision for income taxes
  115   159    550    
NET INCOME   854    877    1,529 Noncontrolling interest
  38   24    10 Dividends and accretion on preferred stock
  Œ  124    21    
NET INCOME AVAILABLE TO COMMON 
SHAREHOLDERS $  816  $ 729 $  1,498    
           Basic Earnings Per Share
 $  1.18  $  1.16  $  2.73     
             Diluted Earnings Per Share
 $  1.16  $  1.15  $  2.71    
            BB&T Corporation and Subsidiaries 
 (Dollars in millions, except per share data)
CONSOLIDATED
 STATEMENTS
 OF INCOME2010 ANNU
AL
 REVIEW
30BB&T Corporation and Subsidiaries
 (Dollars in millions, except per share data)
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
Five-
YearCompound
 Year Ended December 31,
 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006  2005 G
rowth Rate
 SUMMARY
 OF 
INCOME S
TAT
EMENT               
             Interest income
 $   7,115  $   6,884  $   7,207   $   7,894  $   6,893  $   5,506  5.3  % Interest expense
  1,795   
2,040   
2,969   
4,014   
3,185   
1,981  (2.0)  Net interest income
  5,320   
4,844   
4,238   
3,880   
3,708   
 3,525  8.6   Provision for credit losses
  2,638   
2,811   
1,445   
448   
240   
 217  64.8   Net interest income after provision
               
 for credit losses
  2,682   
2,033   
2,793   
3,432   
3,468   
3,308  (4.1)  Noninterest income
  3,957   
3,934   
3,197   
2,774   
2,521   
2,326  11.2   
Noninterest expense
  5,670   
4,931   
3,911   
3,624   
3,511   
3,163  12.4   Income before income taxes
  969   
1,036   
2,079   
2,582   
2,478   
2,471  (17.1)  Provision for income taxes
  115   
159   
550   
836   
945   
 813  (32.4)  Net Income  854   
877   
1,529   
1,746   
1,533   
1,658  (12.4)   Noncontrolling interest
  38   
24   
10   
12   
5   
4  56.9    Dividends and accretion on 
   
preferred stock
  Œ  124   
21   
Œ   
Œ   
Œ   NM    Net income(1) $   816  $ 729  $ 1,498  $ 1,734  $ 1,528  $ 1,654  (13.2) %    
  
PER COMMON SH
ARE DATA               
               
Basic $   1.18  $ 1.16  $   2.73  $   3.17  $   2.84  $   3.02  (17.1) %   
Diluted  1.16   
1.15   
2.71   
3.14   
2.81   
3.00  (17.3)  
Cash dividends declared
  .60   
.92   
1.87   
1.80   
1.64   
1.49  (16.6)  Book value
  23.67   
23.47   
23.16   
23.14   
21.69   
20.49  2.9   
   
    
SELECTED AVE
RAGE B
ALANCES               
             Assets  $ 159,658 $  155,182  $   136,881  $   126,420 $   114,328  $   104,612  8.8  % Earning assets  135,330  
135,665   
120,852   
112,305  
101,572   
92,703  7.9   
Securities, at amortized cost
  27,610  31,226   
23,402   
21,731  
20,110   
19,571  7.1   Loans and leases  104,787   102,146   
95,195   
87,952   
79,313   
71,517  7.9   
Deposits  106,773   102,381   
88,831   
83,501   
77,230   
70,346  8.7   Interest-bearing liabilities
  117,706   
117,570   
106,189   
97,720   
85,646   
76,813  8.9   Shareholders™ equity
  16,886   
16,238   
13,533   
12,215   
11,531   
 11,136  8.7   
   
    
SELECTED YE
AR˚END B
ALANCES               
             Assets  $   157,081  $ 165,764  $   152,015  $   132,618  $   121,351  $   109,170  7.5  % Earning assets  133,442   
142,407   
133,735   
116,466   
107,676   
96,777  6.6   Securities, at carrying value
  23,169   33,253   
32,364   
22,054   
20,342   
19,438  3.6   Loans and leases  107,264   
106,207   
98,669   
91,686   
83,591   
75,023  7.4   
Deposits  107,213   
114,965   
98,613   
86,766   
80,971   
74,282  7.6   
Interest-bearing liabilities
  113,979   
125,502   
113,784   
103,034   
91,569   
80,485  7.2   Shareholders™ equity
  16,498   
16,241   
16,081   
12,664   
11,826   
11,201  8.1         (1) Available to common shareholders
A Brighter Direction
31 Year Ended December 31,
 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006  PERFORMANCE R
AT
IOS                    Return on average assets
 .54 % .56 % 1.12 % 1.38 %  1.34 %Return on average equity
 4.85  4.93  11.44  14.25  13.35Fee income ratio
 42.0  44.2  42.5  41.3  39.9 Fee income ratio Œ adjusted
(1) 41.0  42.8  40.7  41.3  40.6 Efficiency ratio
 60.2  55.4  52.0  53.9  55.6Efficiency ratio Œ adjusted
(1) 53.9  50.4  50.9  51.4  53.2Net interest margin (fully taxable equivalent)
 4.03  3.66  
3.58  
3.52  
3.74         
      CAPITA
L R
AT
IOS                    Average equity to average assets
 10.6 % 10.5 % 9.9 % 9.7 % 10.1 %Equity to assets at year-end
 10.5  9.8  10.6  9.5  9.7 Risk-based capital ratios:
            Tier 1 capital
 11.8  11.5  12.3  9.1  9.0  Total capital
 15.5  15.8  17.4  14.2  14.3 Tier 1 leverage ratio
 9.1  8.5  9.9  7.2  7.2 Tangible common equity
(2) 7.1  6.2  5.3  5.7  6.0 Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets
(2)                     9.1   8.5  
7.1  
7.2  
7.6         
          CREDIT QUALITY R
AT
IOS˛3˝                    Nonperforming loans and leases as a percentage 
  of total loans and leases 2.49 % 2.51 % 1.42 % .54 % .30 %Nonperforming assets as a percentage of:
            Total assets
 2.73  2.61  1.32  .52  .28  L
oans and leases plus foreclosed property
 3.94  4.02  2.03  .75  .41 Net charge-offs as a percentage of average 
  loans and leases 2.41  1.74  .89  .38  .27 Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage 
 
 of loans and leases held for investment
 2.62  2.51  1.62  1.10  1.07 Ratio of allowance for loan and lease losses 
  to net charge-offs                                                       
   1.07  x
 1.47  x
 1.85  x
 2.97  x
 4.12  x   
(1) Excludes securities gains (losses), foreclosed property expenses, amortization of intangible assets, merger-related and restructuring charges, unusual gains
  from extinguishment of debt and the sale of a payroll 
processing business and the sale of BB&T™s ownership interest in Visa; unusual costs associated with a special FDIC assessment, a contingency reserve and adjustments related to leveraged lease settlements.
 (2) Tangible common equity and Tier 1 common equity ratios are Non-GAAP measures. BB&T uses the Tier 1 common equity definition used by the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program to calculate these ratios.
(3) Loans and leases are net of unearned income and include loans held for sale, covered loans and foreclosed property. Government guaranteed mortgage loans have been excluded from our credit quality ratios.
 SELECTED RATIOS
2010 ANNU
AL
 REVIEW
32
MARKET COVERAGE
KnoxvilleHoustonAtlantaMap generated by SpatiaLogic
FORM 10-K BB&T Corporation ˜les an Annual Report on Form 10-K with the Securities and Exchange Commission each 
year. A copy of this report may be obtained upon written request to:Daryl N. Bible
 Senior Executive 
Vice President and Chief Financial Of˜cer
 BB&T Corporation
 200 West Second Street
 PO Box 1250
 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-1250
 
CORPORATE
 HEADQUARTERS
 BB&T Corporation
 200 West Second Street
 PO Box 1250
 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-1250
 336-733-2000
EQUA
L OPPORTUNITY
 EMPLOYER
 BB&T Corporation is an equal opportunity employer. All matters regarding recruiting, hiring, training, 
compensation, bene˜ts, promotions, transfers and all other personnel policies will continue to be free 
 from discriminatory practices. 
TRANSFER AGENT Branch Banking and Trust Company
 Shareholder Services
 Attn: Stock Transfer
 223 West Nash Street 
 Wilson, NC 27893
 
SHAREHOLDER SERVICES Shareholders seeking information regarding dividends, lost certi˜cates or other general information should contact:
Shareholder Services
 336-733-3477 or toll-free 800-213-4314

Please submit address changes through our website, by calling Shareholder Services or by writing to:
 BB&T Shareholder Services
 150 South Stratford Road
 Suite 300 Winston-Salem, NC 27104

ANALYST
 INFORMATION
 Analysts, investors and others seeking additional ˜nancial information should contact:

Tamera 
L. Gjesdal
 Senior Vice President
 Investor Relations
 336-733-3058
Alan W. Greer
 Executive 
Vice President
 Investor Relations
 336-733-3021
CLIENTS Clients seeking assistance with BB&T™s products and services should call 1-800-BANK BBT (1-800-226-5228).

NEWS MEDIA News media representatives seeking information should contact:

Cynthia A. Williams
 Executive 
Vice President
 Chief Corporate Communications Of˜cer
 336-733-1478
WEBSITE Please visit www.BBT.com for information concerning BB&T™s products and services, news releases, ˜nancial 
information, corporate governance practices and other material relating to BB&T.
GENERAL INFORMATION
BB&T Corporation
200 West Second Street

PO Box 1250
Winston-Salem, NC 27102-1250
C0001125033
