2015 Annual Report
Currituck Beach Light Station 
This red-brick lighthouse on North Carolina™s 
Outer Banks has been a beacon for ships since 
1875, three years after BB
&T™s own beginning. 
On the cover, the 10 BB
&T associates on the 
lighthouse™s winding steps symbolize our 
belief that BB
&T associates are foremost in 
guiding our clients to economic success and 
˜nancial security.
Annual Meeting
 You are cordially invited to attend the annual 
meeting of shareholders of BB
&T Corporation 
at 11 a.m. (ET) on Tuesday, April 26, 2016, at 
the Embassy Suites, 460 North Cherry Street, 
Winston-Salem, N.C.
1BB&T Corporation and Subsidiaries (Dollars in millions, except per share data)
  
2015
   
2014
  
% Change
Annual Results
Net income available to common shareholders
 $ 1,936 
  
$ 1,983
  
(2.4)
 %Diluted earnings per common share
  2.56
   2.72
  (5.9)
 Cash dividends declared per common share 
  1.05
   0.95
  10.5
 Book value per common share
  31.66
   
30.09
  5.2
 Tangible book value per common share
(1)
  19.82
   19.86
  (0.2)
   Performance Ratios
    
   
  Return on average assets
  1.08
 %  1.19
 %  Return on average risk-weighted assets
  1.35
   1.58
   Return on average common shareholders™ equity
  8.34
   9.32
   Return on average tangible common shareholders™ equity
(1)
  13.34
   14.68
   Net interest margin Œ taxable equivalent
  3.32
   
3.42
   Fee income ratio
(2)
  43.9
   44.7
   Efficiency ratio
(2)
  58.9
   57.7
            
 Average Balances
       
  
Total assets
 $ 197,347 
  
$ 185,095 
  6.6
 %Securities
(3)
  42,103 
   40,541
  3.9
 Loans and leases
  127,802
    118,830 
  7.6
 Deposits
  138,498 
   129,077 
  7.3
 Shareholders™ equity
  25,871
   23,954
  8.0
         
Period-End Balances
    
   
 Total assets
 $ 209,947 
  $ 186,834
  12.4
 %Securities
(3)
  43,827 
   41,147
  6.5
 Loans and leases
  136,986
    121,307
  12.9
 Deposits
  149,124 
  
 129,040
  15.6
 Shareholders™ equity
  27,340 
   24,377
  12.2
     Capital Ratios
(1) 
    
   
 Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
  11.8
 %  12.4
 %  Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio
  10.3
   N/A
      
      
 Miscellaneous Information
    
   
 End of period shares outstanding (in thousands)
  780,337 
  
 720,698
    Diluted weighted average shares outstanding (in thousands)
  757,765 
   728,372 
   Full-time equivalent associates
  36,059 
   32,265
     
Banking offices
  2,139 
   1,839 
    
ATMs
  3,181 
   2,977
   (1)
 Tangible book value per common share and 
common equity Tier 1 capital are non-GAAP 
measures. BB&T™s management uses these 
measures to assess the quality of capital 
and believes that investors may find them 
useful in their analysis of the Corporation. 
These capital measures are not necessarily 
comparable to similar capital measures 
that may be presented by other companies. 
Please refer to the inside back cover for 
 appropriate disclosures.
(2)
 Excludes securities gains (losses), foreclosed 
property expense, amortization of intangible 
assets, merger-related and restructuring 
charges, the impact of FDIC loss share 
accounting and other selected items. Refer to 
the inside back cover for appropriate disclosures.
(3)
 Excludes trading securities. Average balances 
reflect both AFS and HTM securities at 
amortized cost. Period-end balances reflect 
AFS securities at fair value and HTM securities 
at amortized cost.
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
In 2015, BB&T had a strong year. We made substantial progress in 
building and diversifying our franchise to adapt and thrive in a rapidly 
changing industry, while also enhancing the delivery of our services 
 to meet changing client needs.
BB&T and the banking industry are going through a major 
transformation. We are in the latest phase of a paradigm shift over 
the last 50 years in the way transactions are handled, starting with 
branches and moving to drive-in banking, ATMs, debit cards and, most 
recently, to digital platforms enabling clients to manage transactions 
from their computers, smartphones and tablets. At the same time, 
a prolonged low-rate and ˜ercely competitive environment, coupled 
with rising technology and regulatory costs, are driving continued 
bank consolidation and demanding disciplined execution and 
 steady performance. 
Like a butter˚y™s metamorphosis from a caterpillar Œ when virtually 
every part of the caterpillar changes Œ transformations can be 
traumatic before leading to something better. The good news is BB&T 
will continue to do extraordinarily well because we never lose sight 
of what is 
not
 changing: BB&T™s culture and our relationship of trust 
with our clients. We constantly reinforce BB&T™s non-negotiables Œ 
our vision, mission and values Œ because this long-term view keeps us 
focused during times of volatility, when people and institutions tend to 
make hasty, ill-advised decisions to improve short-term performance. 
In this environment, we believe positive leadership is essential Œ not 
only for BB&T, but for our clients and communities as well Œ to help us 
all grow and prosper. In 2015, we expanded our commitment to help 
our corporate clients reach their potential by sharing BB&T™s time-
tested leadership training. As their partners, we have a responsibility 
 to help our clients achieve economic success and ˜nancial security. 
Through The BB&T Leadership Institute, we focus on the ﬁhuman sideﬂ 
of their businesses, ranging from developing top-performing personnel 
to planning for succession. This commitment Œ unique to BB&T Œ helps 
clients build their businesses and become more profitable, in turn 
bene˜ting their community and our shareholders. We also are offering 
free leadership training to school principals in our communities. For 
every 100 principals we help become better leaders, we conservatively 
estimate that we have a positive impact on 3,500 teachers, who 
in˚uence 55,000 students Œ our future leaders. Everyone wins. We 
believe leadership training is a key way we meet our mission of making 
the world a better place.
We also recognize that we depend on the active engagement 
 of all 36,000 BB&T associates to share and support our goals in an 
evolving landscape. That™s possible only if all of us constantly improve 
our abilities and embrace new challenges by developing a ﬁgrowth 
mindsetﬂ Œ a message we are stressing throughout the company.
Our 2015 accomplishments demonstrate BB&T™s continued ability 
 to adapt and thrive amid this period of dramatic change, including:
Strengthening our markets.
 We successfully integrated our 
Susquehanna Bancshares and The Bank of Kentucky acquisitions. 
 Our announced National Penn Bancshares acquisition will further 
expand BB&T™s footprint in the market and quickly propel us to a No. 4 
 market share in Pennsylvania, with an attractive mix of urban 
corporate clients and diversi˜ed small businesses that is compatible 
with our South Atlantic and Florida markets. Moreover, our 
integration of an additional 41 branches in Texas acquired from 
Citibank creates more retail and commercial opportunities in 
 a state still attracting the most new residents. These strategically 
compelling and financially attractive acquisitions are possible 
because of BB&T™s strength and soundness.
Introducing a cutting-edge digital banking platform, U by BB&T. 
U gives our clients new choices in how they interact with us while 
customizing and aggregating all parts of their ˜nancial life Œ even 
accounts from other institutions Œ in one place. We™ve designed U so 
new features can be constantly added, making it only the beginning of 
our expansion into digital banking. While U will change the way many 
customers do business with us, we also recognize that branches remain 
important reasons why many of our clients bank with BB&T. Even as 
some branches are complemented or replaced with other delivery 
systems, we will never compromise our commitment to community 
banking and strong, personalized client relationships.
Driving solid revenue growth through diversi˜cation of products, 
services and geography. 
We cannot count on the economy to 
provide the growth we need. BB&T continues to diversify our sources 
of revenue with growth in key areas such as capital markets, wealth 
management, insurance and small business loans. At the same time, 
we are diversifying our markets between fast-growing areas in Florida 
and Texas; high-net-worth markets such as greater Philadelphia, where 
we opened a new corporate banking of˜ce; national specialized lending 
businesses such as BB&T Scott & Stringfellow™s new brokerage of˜ces 
in Birmingham, Dallas and Louisville; and our bedrock legacy states, 
including the Carolinas and Georgia.
Continuing our investment in key infrastructure. 
The successful 
rollout of enhanced general ledger, risk management, sales management 
and other systems will enable our growth, increase ef˜ciency and allow 
us to meet increasing regulatory requirements. 
Remaining laser focused on our strict and unchanging credit 
quality standards.
 We have resisted the lure of short-term gains in 
overheated lending markets such as multifamily real estate, adhering 
to BB&T™s conservative underwriting standards through our vigorous 
risk management.
TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS
ﬁ We made substantial progress in building and diversifying our 
  franchise to adapt and thrive in a rapidly changing industry,
  while also enhancing the delivery of our services to meet 
  changing client needs.ﬂ
 Kelly S. King, Chairman and Chief Executive Of˜cer
3Intensely managing expenses.
 Our relentless focus on reducing costs 
we can control Œ essential to offset rising technology and regulatory 
costs we cannot control Œ is driving improvement in our ef˜ciency, 
earnings per share and returns on assets and equity.
Rewarding our shareholders.
 In a sign of BB&T™s strength, we increased 
our quarterly dividend by 12.5% after the Federal Reserve accepted our 
capital plan, which also included capital used to fund our acquisitions. 
BB&T has the industry™s best dividend yield as well as higher returns 
with less volatility than our peers over the past decade.
We are proud of our accomplishments at a time when our industry 
still faces formidable challenges, ranging from global geopolitical risks 
and cybersecurity concerns to a tough expense environment and 
competitive pressure from other banks and new entrants who covet 
our clients. While U.S. economic growth is still tepid, at this time we 
believe ﬁdoom and gloomﬂ worries about a global economic slowdown, 
centered on China and re˚ected in volatile stock markets, are overblown.
We are heartened that the Federal Reserve raised interest rates, 
albeit modestly, in December 2015 for the first time in nearly 
 a decade. Interest rates are the single most important factor affecting 
our pro˜tability that we cannot control. Higher rates ease pressure 
on our margins. Although small increases in rates are unlikely to 
affect businesses™ borrowing decisions Œ and we are not counting on 
additional rate increases for most of 2016 Œ higher rates and a strong 
U.S. dollar will enhance the income of consumers who will spend some 
of that money, stimulating the U.S. economy. With the continued 
2% to 2.5% domestic economic growth that we expect, BB&T™s 
multifaceted strategies position us to grow and prosper. 
Still, we recognize this is no time to be complacent. We must clearly 
differentiate ourselves from our peers to assure BB&T is one of the 
20 or so national and regional banks that we expect to emerge 
as winners after several more decades of consolidation. We start 
 by acknowledging that most banks offer very similar products and 
services, and even employ similar strategies. To stand out, we must do 
more. We believe clients™ desire for both more advice and more control 
over their ˜nancial lives are key tenets of our industry™s transformation. 
We have intensi˜ed our commitment to go beyond loans, deposits and 
other traditional bank products and services by sharing our knowledge Œ 
we call it our intellectual capital Œ to help our clients make better business 
decisions and reach their personal ˜nancial goals. We are empowering 
our associates to respond quickly to clients™ needs, even if it™s not part of 
their jobs. Clients don™t care about systems, processes or even regulations. 
They just want their needs met in an easy, simple and fast way. 
At the same time, a key part of BB&T™s mission is to also share with 
our communities, which have helped us succeed for 144 years. Our 
associates have reached out to our neighbors in need with 7,700 
community service initiatives through BB&T™s Lighthouse Project, 
making a positive impact on more than 11 million people over the 
last seven years. For example, we are helping alleviate homelessness 
among struggling families and children as well as veterans returning 
from military service. We also have shared our expertise to improve the 
˜nancial literacy of 185,000 students since 2010, in partnership with 
EverFi through the BB&T Financial Foundations program. 
Even during this period of transformation for our industry, there has been 
no change in the primary role of banking Œ to help create jobs. We take 
in deposits and prudently loan that money to people and companies 
to build houses, grow businesses and stimulate the economy in other 
ways. Our mission to help our clients, associates and communities 
grow and succeed is also unchanged. It is not just a plaque on the wall 
for us. It™s the way we choose to live when we get up every morning. 
With enthusiasm, passion and purpose, we are absolutely committed 
to make a positive, meaningful difference in the lives of our clients 
 and communities, leading to long-term returns for our shareholders.
Based on segment revenues, excluding other, treasury and corporate for period ended 
12/31/2015
DIVERSIFICATION DRIVES REVENUE AND PRODUCTIVITY
Revenue Diversi˜cation by Segment
14%8%8%17%8%45%Community Banking
Insurance Holdings
Financial Services
Specialized Lending
Dealer Financial Services
Residential Mortgage Banking
5BB&T generated record revenue in 2015, with solid net interest and 
fee income re˚ecting strong performances throughout the company 
and the bene˜ts of our strategic acquisitions. Areas contributing to the 
diversi˜ed growth included deposits, corporate banking, specialized 
lending, wealth, direct retail lending and insurance. Our credit quality 
continues to be excellent and our capital and liquidity strong. Our 
2015 acquisitions provide outstanding opportunities for cost savings 
 and revenue enhancements in 2016.
Revenue increased 4.1% compared to 2014, to $9.8 billion, outpacing 
the 1.7% average of BB&T™s peers. Our earnings did not match 2014™s 
record levels mostly because of costs associated with completing 
recent acquisitions and a challenging year for the banking industry, but 
we ˜nished strong in 2015 with record fee income, broad-based loan 
growth and a stable net interest margin. Earnings per diluted share 
 for the year totaled $2.56, compared to $2.72 for 2014.
Average loans and leases held for investment increased by 7.5% 
 to a record $126.1 billion, including the bene˜t of our acquisitions. This 
growth compares favorably to the 3.4% average for our peers. Even 
excluding acquisitions, average loans exceeded our expectations, 
growing at an annualized rate of approximately 2.0% in the fourth 
quarter versus the third quarter. The growth rate increased to 4.5%, 
excluding a deliberate decrease in residential mortgages as part of 
our decision in 2014 to sell a larger portion of mortgage originations. 
Loan growth was led by commercial and industrial (C&I) lending, up 
7.8% on an annualized basis, direct retail, up 11.2%, and equipment 
˜nance, up 13.5%. Given the concern about the banking industry™s 
exposure to the effects of low oil prices, it™s worth noting that BB&T™s 
oil and gas portfolio represents only 1% of our total portfolio, with 
two-thirds in the most conservative upstream sector, and with no 
delinquencies, fourth quarter losses or energy loans on non-accrual 
 at year end.
A very positive trend is the loan production of our community banks, 
which account for nearly half of BB&T™s revenue and pretax income, with 
momentum in C&I and other retail lending due to excellent execution. 
BB&T™s diversi˜ed specialized lending subsidiaries also showed strong 
growth, increasing average loans by 13.3% for the year. Standouts 
included Grandbridge Real Estate Capital, our commercial mortgage 
operation, Shef˜eld Financial, our consumer small ticket lender, and 
Regional Acceptance Corporation, BB&T™s subprime lender in auto ˜nance. 
On the deposit side, we continued to improve the mix by managing 
down the cost with increased noninterest-bearing accounts. Excluding 
acquisitions, total deposits were basically ˚at by design, but average 
noninterest-bearing deposits grew by 11.5%, compared to an 8.6% 
average for our peers, and represent 32.3% of total deposits, compared 
to the mid-teens only six years ago.
BB&T™s credit quality measures and allowance coverage ratios remain 
 strong. Total nonperforming assets as a percentage of average assets 
continued to decline every quarter in 2015, to 0.34% at year end. Net charge-
 offs for the fourth quarter were 0.38%, increasing slightly from the third 
quarter mainly due to seasonal factors at Regional Acceptance. Coverage 
ratios were 2.53 times for nonperforming loans and 2.83 times for charge-offs.
BB&T™s fully taxable equivalent net interest income increased 4.0% to 
$5.7 billion for 2015, primarily driven by Susquehanna™s contribution. 
With the bene˜ts from our acquisitions, including the completion of 
 the National Penn acquisition in 2016, we expect signi˜cant growth in 
 net interest income because of a bigger balance sheet and growth 
 in earning assets. The net interest margin, key to a bank™s pro˜tability, 
was 3.32% for 2015, superior to the 2.97% average of our peers. We 
expect BB&T™s margin to increase modestly in the ˜rst quarter of 2016. 
The net interest margin is the difference between the interest received 
on loans and investments and the interest paid on deposits and other 
funding, expressed as a percentage of earning assets.
2015 RESULTS
Data per SNL Financial and as of 12/31/2015
 National peer group: CMA, FITB, HBAN, KEY, MTB, PNC, RF, STI, USB, ZION 
 Largest 4 BHCs: BAC, C, JPM, WFC
 Volatility measured as standard deviation of PPNR/Average Asset ratios
SUPERIOR PERFORMANCE... WITH LESS VOLATILITY
Revenue/average assets 10-year average, 2006-2015
Revenue/average assets 10-year standard deviation, 2006-2015
BB&T
National Peers
Largest Four Banks
2.09%
1.73%
1.68%
0.31%
0.34%
0.40%
Our noninterest income, which provides revenue diversi˜cation and 
earnings stability, increased 4.2% to a record $4.0 billion, driven by 
mortgage banking income, trust and investment advisory revenues 
and operating lease income. Insurance continued to benefit from 
industry-leading productivity, strong new business and retention levels 
and aggressive cross-selling of life insurance to our wealth, investment 
services and property and casualty insurance clients. Our fee income 
ratio declined slightly to 43.9% from 2014™s record level because of the 
change in revenue mix from our acquisitions, but still was signi˜cantly 
better than the 38.4% average of our peers. A higher value indicates 
 a bank is producing more of its revenue from noninterest income.
BB&T™s noninterest expense was essentially ˚at in the fourth quarter 
despite higher personnel costs due to the Susquehanna acquisition, 
re˚ecting our intense focus on controlling costs. Excluding acquisitions, 
the number of full-time equivalent positions also remained ˚at for 
the quarter. Our ef˜ciency ratio was 58.9% in 2015, compared to the 
63.1% average of our peers. We expect our ef˜ciency ratio to improve 
throughout 2016. The ratio measures expenses as a percentage 
 of revenues, so lower percentages signal better performance.
BB&T™s return on average risk-weighted assets was a solid 1.44% excluding 
merger-related charges and a loss on the sale of an insurance subsidiary 
during the year, down from 1.68% in 2014, but superior to the most 
recently available peer average of 1.15%. Our return on average tangible 
common shareholders™ equity also decreased to 14.19% from 15.70%, but 
also remained signi˜cantly better than the 11.10% average of BB&T™s peers.
Over the last 10 years, BB&T has outperformed our peers with lower 
volatility, a key to superior long-term returns. Our pre-tax pro˜tability 
relative to assets averaged 2.09%, compared to 1.73% for our national 
peers. For the same 10-year period, BB&T™s standard deviation of that 
measure was 0.31%, versus 0.34% for our national peers, a testimony 
 to the consistency of our performance.
In summary, thanks to our consistent strategies and excellent execution, 
we continued to improve BB&T™s performance in 2015, with both 
organic growth and strategic acquisitions. Even with relatively slow 
economic growth and a challenging low-interest-rate environment 
again in 2016, BB&T has strong momentum and huge opportunities 
 in new markets and new products for the year ahead and beyond.
SUPERIOR NET INTEREST MARGIN
Peers include: CMA, FITB, HBAN, KEY, MTB, PNC, RF, STI, USB and ZION 
BB&T
Peers
Core NIM
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
4.03%
4.06%
3.91%
3.68%
3.42%
3.32%
3.55%
3.50%
3.45%
3.39%
3.12%
3.15%
3.51%
3.37%
3.31%
3.23%
2.97%
14.19%
11.10%
Peers include: CMA, FITB, HBAN, KEY, MTB, PNC, RF, STI, USB and ZION; Peers for 2015 re˚ected through 9/30/15. Excludes impact of selected unusual items
 Source: SNL and Company Reports
SUPERIOR RETURNS THROUGH THE CYCLE
Return on Risk-Weighted Assets
Return on Average Tangible Common Equity
BB&T
Peers
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
1.06%
12.60%
17.39%
17.49%
15.70%
1.54%
1.63%
1.68%
1.44%
1.00%
10.34%
13.24%
13.22%
12.61%
1.28%
1.32%
1.28%
1.15%
7Matthew Sink
 Manufacturing Manager
 Mickey Truck Bodies
Dean Sink
 President & CEO
 Mickey Truck Bodies
Carl Mickey, Jr.
 Executive VP
 Mickey Truck Bodies
Dean Sink, a BB
&T client for 10 years, was initially apprehensive about our offer 
 to evaluate his company™s leadership. At the same time, the longtime CEO of Mickey 
Truck Bodies recognized that one of his direct reports, while a valuable contributor 
to the company and an experienced manager, might bene˜t from some additional 
leadership and communications training. In the true Mickey spirit of continuous 
improvement, the manager welcomed the opportunity to become a more effective 
leader. Within weeks, Dean says, ﬁThe results were outstanding and actionable. 
The manager™s entire team has bene˜ted from a positive cultural shift and a lift in 
productivity.ﬂ He subsequently asked The BB
&T Leadership Institute to help develop 
the entire ﬁhuman sideﬂ of family-owned Mickey Truck Bodies, including assessing 
leadership skills, improving teamwork, planning for change and preparing the next 
generation of leaders. He credits BB
&T™s unique partnership with helping Mickey, 
one of the world™s largest manufacturers of truck bodies and trailers, enjoy its best 
overall performance in its 112-year history in 2015.
LEADERSHIP
ﬁ I™ve been impressed with our BB
&T bankers, so I was con˜dent that if leadership 
  development worked for them, it would work for us. The BB
&T Leadership Institute 
  has made our leaders even stronger, and that in turn has made our company
  even stronger.ﬂ
 Dean Sink, President and Chief Executive Of˜cer of Mickey Truck Bodies in High Point, N.C.
We are steadfast in our mission to optimize the long-term return 
to our shareholders, while providing a safe and sound investment. 
In 2015, we remained tightly focused on shareholder returns while 
also successfully integrating our Susquehanna and Bank of Kentucky 
acquisitions and announcing our National Penn acquisition. We 
believe our long-term focus is the key to success in both BB&T™s 
stock performance and strategic initiatives such as acquisitions.
We believe the best long-term measure of stock performance is total 
return to shareholders, which includes the change in stock price plus 
dividends paid. BB&T™s total return to shareholders is substantially 
better than our peers over the last 10-year, 15-year and 20-year 
periods. BB&T™s 20-year annualized return of 8.9% compares to our 
peers™ average of 5.1%. In 2015, BB&T™s total return to shareholders was 
 0.3%, compared with an average loss of 0.2% for our peers.
Our long-term approach is clearly re˚ected in our dividend strategy. 
BB&T has paid a cash dividend to shareholders of its common stock 
every year since 1903. We have consistently had among the highest 
dividend payout ratios compared to our peers. Even during the recent 
˜nancial crisis, BB&T reduced its dividend substantially less than our 
peers and our dividend has rebounded more strongly, more than 
doubling since the crisis. In 2015, we increased our quarterly dividend by 
12.5% to $0.27 per share, consistent with BB&T™s capital plan submitted 
to the Federal Reserve.
Dividends are very important to us. More than a third of our shareholders 
are individuals who have accumulated their BB&T shares over many 
years. We are committed to continuing a policy of predictable dividends 
to reward all of our shareholders for their support of BB&T.
OUR STOCK PERFORMANCE
Peers include: CMA, FITB, HBAN, KEY, MTB, PNC, RF, STI, USB and ZION
 For periods ended 12/31/2015
 Source: Bloomberg
Source: ThomsonOne
 As of 12/31/2015
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN
BB&T LEADS IN DIVIDEND YIELD
10 Year
20 Year
1 Year
5 Year
15 Year
2.7%
-1.8%-0.6%8.9%
5.1%
6.1%
0.3%
-0.2%-1.5%10.6%8.8%
10.4%3.7%
0.7%
0.8%
2.86%
2.59%
2.53%
2.50%
2.39%
2.31%
2.27%
2.24%
2.14%
2.01%
0.88%
BBT
FITB
HBAN
RFUSB
MTB
KEY
STI
PNC
CMA
ZION
BB&T
Peer Average
S&P Financials Index
9Banks™ capital levels, which measure how much creditors are covered 
if assets are liquidated, are closely monitored by regulators. In the 
wake of the recent ˜nancial crisis, as regulators have properly insisted 
that the banking industry raise those levels, bank capital has doubled 
industrywide while liquidity has more than doubled. 
BB&T has consistently been one of the nation™s best-capitalized banks, 
including during the ˜nancial crisis. Our strength and soundness have 
enabled us to grow organically and through acquisitions, most recently 
with regulatory approval of our Bank of Kentucky, Susquehanna and 
National Penn acquisitions. In 2015, the Federal Reserve also accepted 
BB&T™s capital plan as part of the Fed™s Comprehensive Capital Analysis 
and Review (CCAR) program, which included funds for our acquisitions. 
Bloomberg Markets Magazine
 ranked BB&T among the 15 strongest 
banks in the world, one of only three in the U.S. to earn this distinction.
Our substantial investments in BB&T™s risk management, general ledger 
and other systems have been very important in af˜rming our strength 
in the ﬁstress testsﬂ conducted as part of the CCAR program. In 2015, 
BB&T™s stress test showed we would maintain strong capital levels even 
during a hypothetical ﬁseverely adverseﬂ recession.
Our Liquidity Coverage Ratio, designed to ensure ˜nancial institutions have 
the necessary assets to ride out short-term liquidity disruptions, was 130% 
in the fourth quarter of 2015, well above the 90% regulatory minimum.
We have clear priorities in deploying our capital. Organic growth and 
regular dividends to our shareholders are always first and second, 
respectively. Mergers and acquisitions are third. Stock buybacks 
are a distant fourth because we prefer to invest in the future of our 
franchise, with new markets, new clients and new prospects. We try 
to blend our priorities to both create growth opportunities and bene˜t 
shareholders, such as our Susquehanna and National Penn acquisitions, 
structured with 30% cash and 70% BB&T stock.
Clarity, transparency and respect are crucial in today™s environment 
of increasing regulatory pressure. We view our relationship with 
regulators the same as we do with everyone with whom we work. 
We listen. We seek their advice. And, most importantly, we always do 
what we say.
OUR CAPITAL STRENGTH
CAPITAL STRENGTH
Common Equity Tier 1
Tier 1 
Risk-weighted assets are determined based on regulatory capital requirements. Under the regulatory framework for determining risk-weighted assets, each asset 
class is assigned a risk-weighting of 0%, 20%, 50% or 100% based on the underlying risk of the speci˜c asset class. In addition, off-balance-sheet exposures are ˜rst 
converted to a balance sheet equivalent amount and subsequently assigned to one of the four risk-weightings. Common equity Tier 1 ratio is a non-GAAP measure. 
BB&T™s management uses these measures to assess the quality of capital and believes that investors may ˜nd them useful in their analysis of the Corporation. These 
capital measures are not necessarily comparable to similar capital measures that may be presented by other companies.
Peers include: CMA, FITB, HBAN, KEY, PNC, RF, STI, USB and ZION
BB&T
Peers
1Q15
2Q15
3Q15
4Q15
1Q15
2Q15
3Q15
4Q15
10.5%
12.2%
10.4%
12.1%
10.1%
11.4%
10.3%
11.4%
10.3%
11.4%
10.3%
11.4%
10.3%
11.7%
10.5%
11.8%
BB&T™s constancy of purpose is clearly evident in our strategic 
objectives, set by our senior management team every year. We have 
succeeded by staying committed to these objectives, which have been 
consistent in recent years and constantly reaf˜rmed with all BB&T 
associates. We have added a very important sixth objective this year Œ 
 accelerating BB&T™s digital transformation, re˚ecting the increasing 
ways we deliver services to meet changing client needs. 
The importance of growth also underlies our strategic objectives. 
We must drive revenue growth through a blend of organic growth 
and acquisitions for better diversi˜cation and better pro˜tability. 
Organic growth opportunities are constrained by a still-sluggish 
economy and increasing competition from non-bank companies not 
subject to the same regulations as big U.S. banks. At the same time, 
rising regulatory and technology costs are making some smaller 
banks more open to being acquired because they lack the capacity or 
willingness to incur those costs. In this environment, acquisitions can 
become attractive options. BB&T™s strength and soundness have been 
key factors in establishing positive relationships with prospective 
sellers as well as regulators.
Our long-term mergers and acquisition strategy has not changed. 
We want to supplement our organic growth with acquisitions that 
increase our assets by 5% to 10% a year, ideally with transactions in the 
 $10 billion to $25 billion range. We created a measurement system for 
our community banks 25 years ago, and I still keep it on my desk as 
a constant reminder when evaluating potential acquisitions. First, an 
acquisition has to be a good strategic ˜t, typically within or contiguous 
to our South and Mid-Atlantic markets or ˜lling in within a footprint that 
extends to Texas. Second, an acquired bank must mesh well culturally 
since BB&T is a culture-driven organization. And third, the economics 
must make sense for BB&T and our shareholders. 
We believe growth is also ful˜lling for our associates, providing new 
opportunities and challenges that in turn create self-esteem and pride, 
and ultimately greater success and happiness. 
Objectives are just words on a page without consistent execution. 
As you will see in the following sections, we are acting decisively and 
deliberately to achieve all of our objectives, for the bene˜t of our clients, 
associates, communities and shareholders.
Deliver the BB&T Value Promise enterprise-wide, thereby creating 
the Perfect Client Experience
We recognize many organizations promise quality client service, so we 
work very hard to de˜ne and deliver quality in a way that is unique to 
BB&T. Our fundamental strategy is to deliver the best value proposition 
in our markets. We believe value is the relationship of quality to price. 
While price is a factor, BB&T focuses on the quality side of the equation 
in all aspects of our business.
Our community banking structure, in place since 1988, is at the 
center of BB&T™s commitment to provide what we call the Perfect 
Client Experience Œ service that is reliable, responsive, empathetic and 
competent. Even though we have outgrown the traditional de˜nition of 
a community bank, we still act like one, with associates in our 27 regions 
making most decisions locally, while also offering the diverse products 
and services of the nation™s ninth-largest bank. 
We know the key to client satisfaction is getting the ﬁlittle thingsﬂ right Œ 
 issues that really aren™t little because they make a huge difference to 
our clients. Clients don™t care whose job it is to act on a service request 
or solve a problem; they just want an answer, quickly.
We are not product pushers. Rather, we act as consultants to our clients, 
providing ˜nancial guidance to help them achieve their ˜nancial goals. 
For example, we see ourselves as trusted partners to our commercial 
clients, advising them on capital formation, payments, risk management, 
employee bene˜ts, wealth and private ˜nancial needs, and more. One of 
the best ways to help our clients grow their businesses is to look beyond 
balance sheets and also focus on helping develop their leadership. 
Through The BB&T Leadership Institute, we are expanding courses for 
our corporate clients. Does their organization structure need to change? 
How can a low-performing team work together more effectively? Who 
are their next leaders? We offer the same consultative approach to our 
retail clients, sharing our knowledge to help them achieve economic 
success and ˜nancial security.
Independent agencies consistently affirm BB&T™s superior service 
quality. Our small business and middle-market banking groups have won 
143 excellence awards from Greenwich Associates since 2009 Œ more 
than any other bank with total assets of more than $50 billion. For the 
second year in a row, BB&T Retirement and Institutional Services was 
ranked ˜rst in client satisfaction for plans in the $5 million to $25 million 
asset range, receiving 42 ﬁBest in Classﬂ awards in a national survey 
by 
PLANSPONSOR
 magazine. Keystone Competitive Research named 
BB&T™s retail banking website No. 1 in overall customer experience for 
the third consecutive year. Our associate training program has been 
ranked ˜rst among banks Œ and in the top 20 among all companies Œ 
 by 
Training
 magazine for 14 consecutive years.
OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
11COMMUNITY
ﬁ When I was evicted, I worried my family would be living under 
  a bridge and my kids would be taken away. Steadytown took a 
  chance on me and helped every step of the way, but I also had 
  to help myself. They gave me hope.ﬂ
 Jully Corea of Melbourne, Fla., on how a program partly funded by BB&T helped her avoid homelessness
Charles Corea (2)
 Jully Corea
 Lani Corea (10)
Keith Donald
 CEO and Founder
 Steadytown
Barry Forbes
 SVP / Market President
 BB&T
The faces of homelessness today often include struggling families with children. 
BB&T launched our homelessness outreach program in 2012 after a disturbing 
ﬁ60 Minutesﬂ segment about thousands of homeless children in Orlando. We 
have since helped 40,000 homeless students and their families in Central 
Florida, filling gaps in federal funding to provide emergency housing, food, 
transportation, medical care and more. In 2015, we expanded the initiative into 
four other southeastern states and the District of Columbia. Through BB
&T™s 
Lighthouse Project, 2,500 associates volunteered to help the homeless in 150 
community projects. Single mom Jully Corea, evicted from her home amid rising 
medical and other bills, credits one program, Steadytown in Brevard County, 
Fla., for ˜nding a place to live, a steady job and an excellent school and day care 
for her two children, Lani, 10, and Charles, 2. Now she™s working toward owning 
her own home while living in a supportive apartment community for the once-
homeless Œ called Hope Village.
12131710651343282827086Ensure a strong associate value proposition while enhancing 
associate engagement and empowerment through the 10 Pillars
We are constantly focused on providing a ful˜lling workplace because 
the best way to deliver quality client service is through our people. 
BB&T™s strong associate value proposition starts with a comprehensive 
package of health and wellness, education, vacation and other bene˜ts, 
including a retirement package with both a pension and an employer-
matched 401k retirement plan that few companies offer. As the banking 
industry faces constant pressure to reduce costs, we believe one area 
 to not cut is supporting our associates.
In this new banking world, we also believe empowering associates 
 is crucial. We do not confuse empowerment with power, or authority. 
While BB&T delegates as much authority as possible, we empower 
associates and their leaders to own the responsibility of client 
satisfaction with or without direct authority. 
Empowerment, transparency and growth are the core of what we call 
the 10 Pillars supporting strong associate engagement. They represent 
how we accomplish our strategies, carry out our tactics and treat each 
other. Our annual anonymous survey of associates Œ asking questions 
such as ﬁare you motivated to put forth extra effort in your job?ﬂ Œ 
shows BB&T exceeds industry norms in associate engagement. In 2015, 
we started putting even more emphasis on ensuring all of our associates 
 are engaged and committed to BB&T™s vision, mission and values. 
In frequent meetings with associates, we stress the difference between 
 a ﬁgrowth mindsetﬂ and a ﬁ˜xed mindset,ﬂ based on research by Dr. Carol 
 Dweck of Stanford University. Unlike a ˜xed mindset where people 
believe their intelligence is predetermined, their abilities static and their 
 traits unchangeable, those with a growth mindset believe they change 
and improve their abilities with hard work. With a fixed mindset, 
people play it safe, stick with what they know and avoid risks. With 
a growth mindset, we embrace challenges, learn new skills Œ and 
may make mistakes. We tell our associates it™s OK to make mistakes. 
Disappointment from a failure subsides quickly, but what we learn from 
mistakes stays with us forever. 
We also stress the importance of happiness. Many people think 
happiness is a function of their circumstances, dependent on the action 
of others. We believe nobody can make us unhappy. We choose to be 
unhappy or happy. And if we are happy, there is scienti˜c evidence that 
we feel better, live longer and are more successful. 
The bene˜ts of a growth mindset and happiness extend to the bottom 
line, with increased productivity and pro˜ts, reduced turnover costs 
and greater ef˜ciency. A positive culture also increasingly matters to 
regulators, who believe a negative working environment and culture lead 
to ill-advised or even illegal action. ﬁCulture drives behavior,ﬂ a senior 
Federal Reserve of˜cial said recently.
Our associate value proposition also means helping BB&T™s 
communities. Our associates tell us nothing makes them prouder to 
work at BB&T than reaching out to our neighbors in need Œ as we did 
in 2015, supporting ˚ood victims in South Carolina and a bilingual 
job training center in Pennsylvania, and in countless other ways 
with more than 1,000 community service projects as part of BB&T™s 
Lighthouse Project.
PwC™s 2015 Employee Engagement Landscape Study
THE MOST ENGAGED ASSOCIATES 
BB&T Enterprise-Wide Associate Engagement
Favorable
Neutral
Unfavorable
Industry Norm 64%
Associate Engagement
I am motivated to put forth extra effort in my job.
I would recommend BB&T as an employer.
I am proud to work for BB&T.
I rarely consider looking for a job outside of BB&T.
Overall, I am very satis˜ed working at BB&T.
12108588
13Drive revenue growth organically with focused Integrated 
Relationship Management execution and through strategic 
opportunities
Consistent long-term revenue growth is essential in today™s environment 
of a sluggish economy, intense competition and rising technology and 
regulatory costs. We achieve that growth through diversi˜cation of 
geography, products and services, while investing to build the scale and 
density necessary to offset cost increases and thrive in a competitive, 
consolidating industry.
Our banking franchise, which encompasses many of the best places to 
do business in the U.S., is diversi˜ed between larger and smaller markets, 
faster-growing and slower-growing areas, and rich urban centers with 
big companies and high-net-worth individuals as well as smaller cities 
characterized by family-owned businesses. Slower-growing markets, 
by the way, may not boom in boom times, but they also don™t bust 
 in bad times Œ and that lack of volatility helped us greatly during 
 the ˜nancial crisis.
In 2015, we completed three acquisitions and announced a fourth, 
further broadening the diversity of our markets and increasing our assets 
by $30.3 billion, and our deposits by $24.3 billion, when we close the 
National Penn acquisition this April. More importantly, the acquisitions 
bring new opportunities and markets, create scale by spreading costs 
over a larger base and complement our organic growth.
With the help of 1,000 experienced BB&T ﬁmerger buddyﬂ bankers, we 
converted 239 Susquehanna Bancshares branches over a weekend in 
November to complete one of our largest acquisitions ever, opening 
new revenue opportunities in the contiguous states of Pennsylvania and 
New Jersey while bolstering our market share in Maryland and West 
Virginia. We also completed our acquisition of The Bank of Kentucky, 
boosting our overall marketplace ranking in Kentucky to No. 2 and giving 
us access to the corporate-rich greater Cincinnati market. In Texas, 
we added 41 branches acquired from Citibank, including in the Dallas, 
Houston, Midland and Odessa markets, making BB&T the state™s 14th 
largest bank, up from 51st when we entered Texas in 2009.
In August, we announced the acquisition of National Penn Bancshares 
and won regulatory approval sooner than expected in December, 
allowing us to move up the scheduled completion date to April 2016. 
The transaction significantly expands BB&T™s Mid-Atlantic region 
and ˜ts neatly with the Susquehanna acquisition. Combined, the two 
acquisitions propel BB&T from zero presence in Pennsylvania to a No. 4 
 market share in that large, diverse state. Pennsylvania will be BB&T™s 
third-largest state and the Philadelphia area our ˜fth-largest market.
We feel very fortunate to be able to combine, within a short period 
of time, two exceptionally well-managed Pennsylvania companies 
with cultures and community banking structures that are compatible 
with BB&T. We see enormous opportunities to leverage our proven 
community banking capabilities while offering our broader array of 
products and services. For example, Pennsylvania™s median household 
income exceeds the U.S. average Œ rivaling wealth in our Texas market Œ 
 enabling us to promote BB&T™s extensive insurance products and 
wealth management services, complemented by National Penn™s 
 and Susquehanna™s own insurance and wealth groups.
The organic growth of banks is constrained by a tepid economy, 
prompting some banks to make riskier loans than they should in some 
categories, such as commercial real estate. BB&T has not and will not 
do that. But we have accelerated lending, consistent with BB&T™s strict 
underwriting standards, in several promising areas. We are very bullish 
DELIVERING ALL COMPONENTS OF PROFITABILITY
Strong Ef˜ciency Ratio
Solid Fee Income Ratio
Peers include: CMA, HBAN, KEY, MTB, PNC, RF, STI, USB and ZION
Excludes securities gains (losses), foreclosed property expense, amortization 
 of intangible assets, merger-related and restructuring charges, the impacts 
 of FDIC loss-share accounting and other selected items.
Source: SNL and Company Reports
BB&T
Peers
38.4%
43.9%
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
63.4%
39.7%
42.5%
43.2%
44.7%
54.3%
63.7%
63.5%
63.1%
55.2%
37.1%
37.7%
38.0%
37.8%
63.5%
58.5%
57.7%
58.9%
on our wealth lending strategy, increasing production by nearly 32% 
in 2015, with outstanding credit quality. We also have enjoyed strong 
momentum in small business lending, up 48% in 2015, re˚ecting the 
success of small business specialists added to many branches.
BB&T™s fee income also helps generate our organic growth. A key 
contributor is BB&T™s internal referral program, which we call IRM 
or Integrated Relationship Management. When our associates 
are making loans, they™re also telling our clients about BB&T™s fee 
businesses. In 2015, we introduced a web-based sales management 
system that stimulates even better referrals by integrating all of our 
functions in the branches.
Within our banking markets, BB&T™s long-standing goal is to be within 
the top five in market share because density matters in terms of 
ef˜ciency and pro˜tability. We complement that density with a diverse 
array of national-scope businesses where we have enormous potential 
for expanding small market shares.
Our national Capital Markets Corporate Banking group, for example, 
 is rapidly expanding to ˜ll a void left when several major lenders pulled 
back over the last decade. In addition to our new corporate banking of˜ce 
in Philadelphia, we have loan production of˜ces in Chicago, Cincinnati, 
Dallas, Houston, Los Angeles, Louisville, New York and San Francisco. 
We are establishing equity, debt and syndication coverage for four 
major industry verticals: ˜nancial services, commercial and industrial, 
retail/consumer and energy. In 2015, we expanded capabilities to better 
serve the broader needs of the commercial real estate and Real Estate 
Investment Trust (REIT) sectors.
Insurance is our largest non-banking business, contributing 17% 
 of BB&T™s revenue and importantly a very stable producer and counter-
cyclical force to the more interest-rate-sensitive lending business. Since 
1990, when insurance generated $6 million in revenue, BB&T Insurance 
Holdings has grown through more than 100 acquisitions into the world™s 
sixth-largest, nation™s ˜fth-largest, and largest bank-owned insurance 
broker, with $1.6 billion in revenue. In 2015, we enhanced our fee income 
by increasing our interest in AmRisc, which insures property against 
wind damage, while reducing underwriting risk by selling American 
Coastal Insurance Co. 
Our specialized lending businesses, primarily in either consumer or 
small business ˜nance, add more diverse revenue growth. For example, 
Shef˜eld Financial, which ˜nances loans for dealers of most major power-
equipment brand names, regularly refers business to other BB&T bankers Œ 
 providing 100 dealer contacts to our community bank each month. 
Serving an increasingly diverse client base is also a key part of our 
growth strategy. BB&T will have nearly 500 multicultural branches after 
our recent acquisitions, complemented by a Spanish-language website 
to serve the Latino market, and a new focus on the growing number 
 of Asian households.
Continue the structural buildout of BB&T™s risk governance 
framework with particular emphasis on the role of the ˜rst line 
 of defense and overall effectiveness of enterprise controls
For the last ˜ve years, we have been aggressively investing in BB&T™s 
systems, processes and risk management approaches to meet increased 
regulatory requirements. The passage of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act 
by Congress, in response to the ˜nancial crisis, required sophisticated 
systems to quickly generate hundreds of thousands of pieces 
 of information to af˜rm banks™ strength and soundness. 
Rather than expending our energy resisting the new regulations, we 
built the industry™s best risk-governance framework, including BB&T™s 
new general ledger system and a commercial loan system and robust 
data center coming in 2016. We distinguish between regulators and 
regulation. Even though we believe some regulations are excessive, 
 7.5%
7.1%
5.2%
4.4%
4.4%
3.6%
3.4%
2.9%
2.1%
2.1%
2.1%
1.6%
BB&T
Peer 1
Peer 2
Peer 3
Peer 4
Peer 5
Peer
 Average
Peer 6
Peer 7
Peer 8
Peer 9
BB&T growth rate includes acquisitions
 Peers include: CMA, FITB, HBAN, KEY, 
PNC, RF, STI, USB and Zion
 Source: SNL
AVERAGE LOAN GROWTH 
vs.
 PEERS
2015 vs. 2014
BB&T
Peers
Average Peer 
 Loan Growth
15we work with regulators, who are simply trying to implement rules 
passed in a charged political environment. When regulators recommend 
a change, we are very clear about how we are going to comply and then 
we honor our commitment. 
We believe our investments and approach have been important during 
BB&T™s recent acquisitions. Regulators look closely at the acquirers in 
a proposed transaction to be sure they have a strong and consistent 
risk culture. In the case of federally assisted transactions, such as our 
2009 Colonial Bank acquisition, regulators need to ensure acquirers can 
absorb problems, ˜x them quickly and move on.
We also believe risk awareness and strong credit quality are not the sole 
responsibility of only particular parts of the bank. While we have strong 
monitoring and auditing functions, we recognize that BB&T community 
bankers often are our ˜rst and most important line of defense. We 
constantly remind our associates that everyone is a risk manager, 
whether they™re a teller, market leader or systems developer.
While increased regulatory scrutiny has garnered headlines since the 
˜nancial crisis, BB&T™s intense focus on risk governance is not new. 
 As part of BB&T™s long-standing conservative risk culture, we have 
 very strict limits on individual exposures and portfolio concentrations. 
We prefer a diversi˜ed, granular approach rather than participation in 
some of our industry™s very large credits. We don™t do leveraged lending. 
Our approach has helped us avoid problems in the energy industry, 
 for example, by limiting our exposure in riskier oil ˜eld services. 
Some banks are responding to a sluggish economy and intense 
competition by being very aggressive in underwriting and pricing 
loans. We acknowledge that BB&T could grow our loans at a faster 
rate, particularly as we enter new markets. But BB&T has not, and will 
not, depart from a disciplined, conservative risk culture that has served 
 us well for 144 years.
Aggressively manage expenses to drive improvement in our 
ef˜ciency, earnings per share, and returns on assets and equity
In the 1990s and early 2000s, when the economy was expanding 
vigorously, frankly banks didn™t worry as much about expenses. Banks 
and other companies could ﬁoutgrowﬂ their expenses. With today™s 
slower economic growth, that is not an option. 
Since we largely cannot control rising technology and regulatory costs, 
we must meticulously manage all of our other expenses. At the same 
time, we must constantly reconceptualize, restructure and innovate 
 to increase our ef˜ciency.
We believe everything we do can be done better. At the same time, we 
recognize that the associates closest to the work are in a better position 
than the CEO and other senior leaders to find a better way. That™s 
another reason we are spending an enormous amount of time renewing 
our commitment to associate engagement. We explain the context of 
why we need to be more ef˜cient and then we empower associates to 
ﬁthink outside the boxﬂ Œ to be creative in improving their businesses 
and developing strategies for doing more with less. 
Unlike some companies, we also do not use the ﬁtop downﬂ approach 
in announcing large across-the-board cuts in expenses. That just creates 
needless anxiety and often masks the need to make systemic changes.
Just as our acquisitions help us drive revenue growth, they also help us 
lower costs. Through extensive due diligence, we nail down the expected 
cost savings, line-by-line, before we announce an acquisition. Then we 
have a very disciplined process of achieving those savings. For example, 
we expect to achieve $160 million in cost savings from our Susquehanna 
acquisition and another $65 million from our National Penn acquisition, 
while increasing BB&T™s overall ef˜ciency. We are always conservative 
 in our projections because we like to beat them.
 **
 Includes pending National Penn branches
   
Corporation footprint as of 08/18/2015
*Includes BB&T Securities.
OFFERING ASSET, GEOGRAPHIC & REVENUE DIVERSIFICATION
Virginia (359)North Carolina (356)
Florida (326)
Pennsylvania** (294)Maryland** (169)Georgia (161)Texas (121)Kentucky (113)South Carolina (112)Alabama (88)West Virginia (79)
Tennessee (50)
New Jersey** (35)Washington, D.C. (13)
Indiana (2)
Ohio (1)BB&T InsuranceBB&T Corporate LocationBB&T Scott & StringfellowRegional Acceptance CorporationBB&T Dealer Financial ServicesGrandbridge Real Estate CapitalBB&T Capital Markets*BB&T Equipment FinanceAFCO/CAFO/Prime RateSterling CapitalBB&T Governmental FinanceBB&T Commercial FinanceBB&T Data CenterSheffield FinancialBB&T Corporate HeadquartersVirginia (359)North Carolina (356)
Florida (326)
Pennsylvania** (294)Maryland** (169)Georgia (161)Texas (121)Kentucky (113)South Carolina (112)Alabama (88)West Virginia (79)
Tennessee (50)
New Jersey** (35)Washington, D.C. (13)
Indiana (2)
Ohio (1)BB&T InsuranceBB&T Corporate LocationBB&T Scott & StringfellowRegional Acceptance CorporationBB&T Dealer Financial ServicesGrandbridge Real Estate CapitalBB&T Capital Markets*BB&T Equipment FinanceAFCO/CAFO/Prime RateSterling CapitalBB&T Governmental FinanceBB&T Commercial FinanceBB&T Data CenterSheffield FinancialBB&T Corporate HeadquartersBB&T Retail Financial Centers 
(2,279 Locations**)
BB&T Market Coverage 
American Banker
banking experience that BB
&T has granted.ﬂ
ﬁCustomers have rarely been given the level of control of the
Javelin Strategy & Research
their digital banking experience no matter where they log on.ﬂ
by letting customers themselves dictate the look and feel of 
ﬁBB
&T™s U platform combines practicality and personalization
Accelerate BB&T™s digital transformation through strategic 
alignment of infrastructure such that we meet the needs and 
expectations of our clients ef˜ciently and effectively
The transformation of banking is seen most clearly in the delivery 
of our products and services. In 2015, for the ˜rst time more people 
used a mobile banking service weekly than those who visited a branch 
once a week, according to a survey by Javelin Strategy & Research. 
Five years ago, less than 10% of people made mobile transactions. 
The Millennial generation, those 18-to-34-year-olds who make up the 
largest demographic group in the U.S., are driving much of this rapid 
shift in preferences. Connecting with these customers is vital now, and 
in the future. Millennials account for an estimated $200 billion in annual 
spending and one day will be on the receiving end of the most massive 
generational transfer of personal wealth in history.
Starting three years ago, BB&T developed a mobile platform that 
essentially digitizes our value promise to our clients. U by BB&T offers 
easy, simple and fast service, backed by our safety and security, and 
allows our clients to seamlessly customize and aggregate all of their 
˜nancial information, including information from other companies, in 
one place. We introduced U by BB&T as a free ﬁappﬂ to our clients in late 
September 2015. By November, it already catapulted into the nation™s 
Top 20 free ˜nancial apps and won positive reviews by independent 
sources such as Javelin and 
American Banker
. U is designed to be 
nimble, so features can be easily and constantly added, or subtracted, 
 as market demands change. For example, U allows clients to capture and 
store receipts, view account balances without logging in and schedule 
in-person appointments with bankers, among many features. Future 
versions will add ˜nancial education tools, credit scores, favorite stock 
tickers and much more.
It™s important to also recognize what U and the digitization of banking 
is 
not
. It™s not only for Millennials. We believe it will be well received 
and easily adopted by all age groups. It is not the death knell for bank 
branches. Many of our clients still want the personal connection of 
 a branch banker to transact their business, particularly more complex 
transactions. U enables our associates to cross-sell more BB&T services 
through our branches, and the visibility of branches reinforces our 
strong market presence. While BB&T will continue to consolidate some 
locations and be very cost conscious about branch size and staf˜ng, 
closing a branch does not mean losing a client. Banking has always been 
about relationships, and BB&T will continue to nurture our interactions 
with clients, whether in the teller line or on their smartphones.
U is symbolic of our future. It™s as close as we can come, today, to what 
the future will look like. But it is only a beginning. We built U to keep 
changing, as BB&T will continue to change to deliver our products 
 and services in ways that best meet the needs of our clients.
1717Our new digital platform, U by BB
&T, is constantly on the move Œ like our 
clients. We designed it so clients can view and manage their money in the palm 
 of their hand on one screen, on any device, wherever they are. Backed by the 
safety of BB
&T, our clients can customize U™s ˜nancial dashboard to interact 
with us the way they choose, whether viewing account balances without 
logging in, capturing and storing paper and electronic receipts, or setting up 
budgets to monitor their spending. Clients seamlessly move from scheduling 
appointments with their BB
&T bankers to making person-to-person payments 
to viewing call center wait times. A tool aggregating account balances and 
transaction details from other financial institutions allows clients to see 
their entire ˜nancial picture in one place. And U never stops moving because 
 it™s a continually evolving platform, adding the next innovation or the next new 
service requested by our clients. U by BB
&T is truly all about you, our clients.
U BY BB&T
View and manage your money in one place, on one screen, on any device. 
 Get started at BBT.com/U.
We have a great deal to be thankful for at BB&T. We welcomed new 
associates from Citibank, The Bank of Kentucky and Susquehanna to the 
 BB&T family, and look forward to adding teammates from National 
Penn in 2016. None of the achievements described in this annual report 
would have been possible without the dedication of all of our associates. 
We added two members to BB&T™s executive management team, 
who provide deep experience and steadfast leadership as we navigate 
a rapidly changing technological and client service environment. 
 W. Bennett Bradley, president of Payment Solutions, will assume the 
new role of Chief Digital Of˜cer, responsible for establishing BB&T™s 
future digital strategy. A native of Tarboro, N.C., and a 30-year banking 
veteran, Bennett previously served as manager of electronic delivery 
services and senior credit of˜cer of BB&T™s Eastern Region.
Also joining the now 13-member executive management team 
 is David H. Weaver, who oversees nine BB&T community banking 
regions in Alabama, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, 
Virginia and the newly formed central Pennsylvania region. He is 
 a native of Raleigh, N.C., and previously served as regional president of 
North Carolina™s Triangle region and as Raleigh city executive. David 
will provide the executive team a unique vision on our community 
bank clients and their needs.
Our growth through acquisitions continues to bene˜t BB&T with new 
leaders and fresh perspectives. In 2015, Susquehanna Chairman and 
CEO William J. Reuter and Susquehanna board member Christine Sears 
joined our strong board of directors, who continue to wisely guide 
 us through the banking industry™s transformation. Other executives 
of Susquehanna and The Bank of Kentucky lead new community 
banking regions, while former Bank of Kentucky CEO Robert Zapp 
chairs BB&T™s local advisory board. National Penn CEO Scott V. Fainor 
will be a group executive responsible for Pennsylvania, New Jersey, 
Maryland, West Virginia and the District of Columbia upon closing 
 of that acquisition.
I want to express my deepest appreciation to Ronald E. Deal and 
Dr. John P. Howe III, who retired from our board of directors at 
year end. Ron Deal, founder of Wesley Hall Inc. in Hickory, N.C., 
has been instrumental in helping guide BB&T™s growth. He was our 
longest-serving director, joining the board in 1986, and our lead 
director for the last two years. Dr. Howe, a renowned humanitarian 
who retired as CEO of Project HOPE in Washington, D.C., has 
provided wise counsel and his unique perspective as a director for 
 the last decade.
The BB&T family was saddened in 
2015 to lose long-time teammate 
Leon Wilson, who died after a 
two-year battle with cancer. Leon, 
an integral part of executive 
management for more than 
15 years and of BB&T for 38 
years, helped create BB&T as we 
know it today, overseeing the 
successful systems integrations 
of more than 200 mergers. He had a tremendous effect on those who 
worked with him through his constant encouragement, thoughtful 
leadership and love of BB&T. Leon was like family. To me personally, 
 he was like a brother. 
When I joined BB&T in 1972, we were a $250 million bank in eastern 
North Carolina, with 1,000 associates. Nobody gave us a chance to 
make it. Today, with nearly $210 billion in assets and more than 36,000 
associates, we not only have built the nation™s ninth-largest bank but 
also created a culture that is richer and deeper. We have achieved both 
objectives through constancy of purpose and message. We talk about 
our vision, mission and values at every associate meeting and every 
investor presentation. Together, we are committed to be the best bank 
possible.
As ˜nancial partners, we have a responsibility to help our clients achieve 
economic success and ˜nancial security. We are committed to making 
BB&T a place where our associates can learn, grow and be ful˜lled 
in their work so we can focus on giving the best possible service to our 
clients. We give back to our communities, because it™s the right thing 
to do morally and because if our communities do well, BB&T does 
well. And by taking care of our clients, associates and communities, we 
reward our shareholders with long-term returns. 
Despite the challenges facing our industry, country and world, we 
choose to think positively. We live in the best country in the world, 
where we enjoy freedom and opportunity. We live and do business in 
the best part of the country, with exciting new markets. We understand 
that our role is about more than being a ˜nancial institution. It™s about 
something bigger that transcends BB&T. Because we touch the lives of 
hundreds of thousands of people, we must do the best we can to make 
 a positive, meaningful difference in making the world a better place. 
With our shared commitment to be ﬁthe best of the best,ﬂ and 
the continuing support of our clients, associates, communities 
 and shareholders, I am con˜dent that BB&T™s best days are ahead.
    Kelly S. King, Chairman and Chief Executive Of˜cer
 February 19, 2016
THANK YOU
19SEC Filings
BB&T Corporation ˜les required reports 
with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission each year. Copies of these 
reports may be obtained upon written 
request to:
Daryl N. Bible
 Senior Executive Vice President
 and Chief Financial Of˜cer
 BB&T Corporation
 200 West Second Street
 P.O. Box 1250
 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-1250
Corporate Headquarters
BB&T Corporation
 200 West Second Street
 P.O. Box 1250
 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-1250
 336-733-2000
Transfer Agent
Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
 250 Royall Street
 Canton, MA 02021
Equal Opportunity Employer
BB&T Corporation is an equal 
opportunity employer including 
individuals with disabilities and protected 
veterans. All matters regarding recruiting, 
hiring, training, compensation, bene˜ts, 
promotions, transfers and all other 
personnel policies will continue to be 
free from discriminatory practices.
Shareholder Services
Shareholders seeking information 
regarding transfer instructions, dividends, 
lost certi˜cates or other general 
information should write or call:
Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
 P.O. Box 43078
 Providence, RI 02940-3078
 800-213-4314
Address changes, reprinting of tax 
information, and account information 
may be directly accessed through 
 the Computershare website using 
Investor Center: 
www.computershare.com/BBT
Stock Exchange 
 and Trading Symbol
The common stock of BB&T Corporation 
 is traded on the New York Stock 
Exchange under the symbol BBT.
Direct Stock Purchase and 
Dividend Reinvestment Plan
The Direct Stock Purchase and Dividend 
Reinvestment Plan offers prospective and 
current shareholders the opportunity to 
affordably obtain BB&T common shares. 
Shareholders may reinvest dividends, 
purchase additional shares, and sell 
shares on a regular basis. For more 
information, contact Computershare 
 at 800-213-4314.
News Media
News media representatives seeking 
information should contact:
Cynthia A. Williams
 Senior Executive Vice President
 Chief Corporate Communications Of˜cer
 336-733-1470
Analyst Information
Analysts, investors and others seeking 
additional ˜nancial information 
 should contact:
Alan W. Greer
 Executive Vice President
 Investor Relations
 336-733-3021
Tamera L. Gjesdal
 Senior Vice President
 Investor Relations
 336-733-3058
Clients
Clients seeking assistance with BB&T 
products and services should call 
 800-BANK BBT (800-226-5228).
Website
Please visit BBT.com for information 
concerning BB&T™s products and services, 
news releases, ˜nancial information, 
corporate governance practices and 
 other information.
GENERAL INFORMATION
Daryl N. Bible
 Senior Executive Vice President 
 and Chief Financial Of˜cer 
W. Bennett Bradley
 Senior Executive Vice President 
 and Chief Digital Of˜cer
Ricky K. Brown
 Senior Executive Vice President 
 and President, Community Banking
Barbara F. Duck
 Senior Executive Vice President 
 and Data and Technology 
 Services Manager
Donna C. Goodrich
 Senior Executive Vice President 
 and Deposit and Operations 
Services Manager
Christopher L. Henson
 Chief Operating Of˜cer
Robert J. Johnson, Jr.
 General Counsel, Secretary 
 and Chief Corporate 
 Governance Of˜cer 
Kelly S. King
 Chairman and Chief Executive 
Of˜cer
Clarke R. Starnes III
 Senior Executive Vice President 
 and Chief Risk Of˜cer
David H. Weaver
 Senior Executive Vice President 
and Community Banking Group 
Executive
Steven B. Wiggs
 Senior Executive Vice President 
 and Chief Marketing Of˜cer 
 and Lending Group Manager
Cynthia A. Williams
 Senior Executive Vice President 
 and Chief Corporate 
Communications Of˜cer
W. Rufus Yates
 Senior Executive Vice President 
 and Capital Markets Manager
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT
Standing left to right:
 Cynthia Williams, Bennett Bradley, Bob Johnson, Rufus Yates, Donna Goodrich, David Weaver, Steve Wiggs, Barbara Duck 
Sitting left to right:
 Ricky Brown, Clarke Starnes, Kelly King, Daryl Bible, Chris Henson
2015 Annual Report
CORPORATE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Jennifer S. Banner
 Chief Executive Of˜cer
 Schaad Companies, LLC
 and President and CEO
 SchaadSource, LLC
 Knoxville, Tenn.
K. David Boyer, Jr.
 Chief Executive Of˜cer
 GlobalWatch Technologies, Inc.
 Oakton, Va.
Anna R. Cablik
 President
 Anasteel & Supply Company, LLC 
and Anatek, Inc.
 Marietta, Ga.
James A. Faulkner
 Retired CEO
 Century South Banks
 Dahlonega, Ga.
I. Patricia Henry
 Retired Director of 
 Strategic Projects
 Miller Brewing Co.
 Stone Mountain, Ga.
Eric C. Kendrick
 President
 Mereck Associates, Inc.
 Arlington, Va.
Kelly S. King
 Chairman and
 Chief Executive Of˜cer
 BB&T Corporation
 Winston-Salem, N.C.
Louis B. Lynn, Ph.D.
 President and Chief 
 Executive Of˜cer
 ENVIRO AgScience, Inc.
 Columbia, S.C.
Edward C. Milligan
 Retired Chairman
 Main Street Banks, Inc.
 Marietta, Ga.
Charles A. Patton
 Consultant
 Former President and CEO
 Virginia First Savings Bank
 Hopewell, Va.
Nido R. Qubein
 President
 High Point University
 Chairman
 Great Harvest Bread Co.
 High Point, N.C.
Willam J. Reuter
 Retired Chairman and 
 Chief Executive Of˜cer of 
Susquehanna BancShares, Inc.
 Lititz, Pa.
Tollie W. Rich, Jr.
 Retired Chief Operating Of˜cer
 Life Savings Bank
 Cape Coral, Fla.
Christine Sears
 President and CEO of 
 Penn National Insurance
 Harrisburg, Pa.
Thomas E. Skains
 Chairman, President and 
 Chief Executive Of˜cer
 Piedmont Natural Gas 
 Company, Inc.
 Charlotte, N.C.
Thomas N. Thompson 
 President
 Thompson Homes, Inc.
 Representative
 Kentucky House of Representatives
 Owensboro, Ky.
Edwin H. Welch, Ph.D.
 President
 University of Charleston 
 Charleston, W.Va.
Stephen T. Williams
 President
 A.T. Williams Oil Co.
 Winston-Salem, N.C.
Standing left to right:
 Willam Reuter, Christine Sears, Thomas Skains, Edwin Welch, Eric Kendrick, Kelly King, David Boyer, Stephen Williams, James Faulkner, Jennifer Banner 
Sitting left to right:
 Charles Patton, Patricia Henry, Tollie Rich, Thomas Thompson, Nido Qubein, Louis Lynn, Anna Cablik, Edward Milligan
Corporate Pro˜le 
Founded in 1872, BB&T Corporation (ﬁBB&Tﬂ or ﬁthe Corporationﬂ) continues to build on a 
strong foundation of excellence.
Headquartered in Winston-Salem, N.C., BB&T had consolidated assets at December 31, 
2015, totaling $209.9 billion, and ranks as the ninth-largest ˜nancial institution based on 
deposits in the United States. As of December 31, 2015, BB&T operated 2,139 ˜nancial 
centers in 15 states and Washington, D.C. 
BB&T is a values-driven, highly pro˜table growth organization. A Fortune 500 company, 
BB&T offers a full range of consumer and commercial banking, securities brokerage, 
asset management, mortgage and insurance products and services. We are consistently 
recognized for outstanding client satisfaction by the U.S. Small Business Administration, 
Greenwich Associates and others.
Our fundamental strategy is to deliver the best value proposition in our markets. 
Recognizing value is a function of quality to price, our focus is on delivering high-quality 
client service resulting in the Perfect Client Experience.
Our overarching purpose is to achieve our vision and mission, consistent with our values, 
with the ultimate goal of maximizing shareholder returns.
At BB&T, we™ve spent 144 years sharing our knowledge with our clients. By offering 
sound advice and personal attention, we help our clients make informed choices as 
they manage their day-to-day finances and set a course to reach their long-term 
 ˜nancial goals.
More information about BB&T and our full line of products and services is available 
 at BBT.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This 2015 Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements as de˜ned in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements may address 
issues that involve significant risks, uncertainties, estimates and assumptions made by management. Actual results may differ materially from current projections. 
 Please refer to BB&T™s ˜lings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a summary of important factors that may affect BB&T™s forward-looking statements. BB&T 
undertakes no obligation to revise these statements following the date of this Annual Report.
About the Report
This 2015 Annual Report contains ˜nancial information and performance measures 
determined by methods other than in accordance with accounting principles 
generally accepted in the United States of America (ﬁGAAPﬂ). BB&T™s management 
uses these measures to evaluate the underlying performance and efficiency 
 of BB&T™s operations. Management believes that non-GAAP measures provide 
 a greater understanding of ongoing operations and enhance comparability of results 
with prior periods as well as demonstrating the effects of signi˜cant gains and charges 
in the current period. The company believes that a meaningful analysis of its ˜nancial 
performance requires an understanding of the factors underlying that performance. 
BB&T™s management believes investors may use these non-GAAP ˜nancial measures 
to analyze financial performance without the impact of unusual items that may 
obscure trends in the company™s underlying performance. These disclosures should 
not be viewed as a substitute for ˜nancial measures determined in accordance with 
GAAP, nor are they necessarily comparable to non-GAAP performance measures 
that may be presented by other companies. Please refer to the Annual Report on 
 Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, and BBT.com for appropriate 
 non-GAAP disclosures and reconciliations.
OUR VISION
To Create the Best Financial Institution Possible Œ ﬁThe Best of The Bestﬂ
OUR MISSION
To Make the World a Better Place to Live, By:
Helping our Clients Achieve Economic Success and Financial Security;
Creating a Place where our Associates can Learn, Grow and be Ful˜lled in their Work;
Making the Communities in which we Work Better Places to be; and thereby:
Optimizing the Long-Term Return to our Shareholders, while Providing a Safe and Sound Investment.
VALUES ARE CONSISTENT AND IMPORTANT
BB&T Corporation
200 West Second Street
P.O. Box 1250
Winston-Salem, NC 27102-1250
C0001125048
