2013 Annual Re
port
Our Vision
To Create the Best Financial Institution Possible Œ ﬁThe Best of The Bestﬂ
Our Mission
To Make the World a Better Place to Live, By:
Helping our Clients Achieve Economic Success and Financial Security;
Creating a Place where our Associates can Learn, Grow and be Ful˜lled in their Work;
Making the Communities in which we Work Better Places to be; and thereby:
Optimizing the Long-Term Return to our Shareholders, while Providing a Safe and Sound Investment.
Our Values
Table of Contents
Consolidated Financial Highlights
 1To Our Shareholders
 2Executive Management
 20Corporate Board of Directors
 20
General Information
 21
Annual Meeting 
The 2014 Annual Meeting of Shareholders 
will be held on Tuesday, April 29, 2014, at 
11 a.m. Eastern Time, at the Embassy Suites, 
460 North Cherry Street, Winston-Salem, 

North Carolina.
2013 Annual Report  
|  1Consolidated Financial Highlights
BB&T Corporation and Subsidiaries (Dollars in millions, except per share data)
   
 2013
   
2012
  
% Change
ANNUAL RESULTS
Net income available to common shareholders
 $ 1,562 
  
$ 1,916
   (18.5)
 %Diluted earnings per common share
  2.19
   2.70
  (18.9)
 Cash dividends declared per common share 
  0.92
   0.80
  15.0
 Book value per common share
  28.52
   27.21
  4.8
 Tangible book value per common share
(2)
  18.08
   16.53
  9.4   PERFORMANCE RATIOS
    
   
  Return on average assets
  0.95
 %  1.14
 %  Return on average common shareholders™ equity
  8.06
   10.35
   Net interest margin Œ taxable equivalent
  3.68
   
3.91
   Fee income ratio
(3)
  
43.2
   42.5
   Efficiency ratio
(3)
  
58.5
   54.3
      
 ANNUAL OPERATING RESULTS
(1)
    
   
 Operating earnings
 $ 2,078 
  $ 1,916 
  8.5
 %Diluted operating earnings per common share
  2.91
   2.70
  7.8
 Return on average assets
  1.24
 %  1.14
 %  Return on average common shareholders™ equity
  10.55
   10.35
      
      
 AVERAGE BALANCES
    
   
  
Total assets
 $ 181,262 
  $ 178,634 
  1.5
 %Total securities
(4)
  36,772 
   36,334 
  1.2
 Loans and leases
  117,527
    113,733 
  3.3
 Deposits
  128,555 
   127,617 
  0.7
 Shareholders™ equity
  21,890 
  
 19,477
  12.4
     
    
PERIOD-END BALANCES
    
   
 Total assets
 $ 183,010 
  $ 184,499
  (0.8)
 %Total securities
(4)
  40,205 
   38,731
  3.8
 Loans and leases
  117,139
    118,364
  (1.0)
 Deposits
  127,475 
  
 133,075
  (4.2)
 Shareholders™ equity
  22,809 
   21,223
  7.5
    
 CAPITAL RATIOS
(2)
    
   
 Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
  11.8
 %  10.5
 %  Tier 1 common equity as a percentage of risk-weighted assets
  9.9
   9.0
      
      
 MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION
    
   
 End of period shares outstanding (in thousands)
  706,620 
  
 699,728 
   Diluted weighted average shares outstanding (in thousands)
  714,363 
   708,877 
   Full-time equivalent associates
  33,696 
   33,981 
    
Banking offices
  1,825 
   1,832 
    
ATMs
  2,935 
   2,826 
   (1)
 Excludes tax-related charges.
(2)
 Tangible common equity, Tier 1 common equity and related ratios are non-GAAP measures. BB&T™s management uses these measures to assess the quality of capital and believes that investors may 
find them useful in their analysis of the Corporation. These capital measures are not necessarily comparable to similar capital measures that may be presented by other companies. Please refer to page 

21 for appropriate disclosures. 
 (3)
 Excludes securities gains (losses), foreclosed property expense, amortization of intangible assets, merger-related and restructuring charges, the impacts of FDIC loss share accounting, and other selected 
items. Refer to page 21 for appropriate disclosures. 
(4)
 Excludes trading securities. Average balances reflect both AFS and HTM securities at amortized cost. Period-end balances reflect AFS securities at fair value and HTM securities at amortized cost.
2  |  2013 Annual Report
To Our Shareholders
BB&T met the challenges of 2013 with a steadfast commitment 
to our values and an unwavering dedication to help our clients, 
associates, communities and shareholders be successful. 
 To position your company for a prosperous 2014 and beyond, 
 we also made substantial investments that will both accelerate 

our growth and improve our ef˜ciency for the long term.
Moving forward as an industry and nation, we strongly 
believe we all must pivot to start capitalizing on our collective 
strengths and resources, rather than continuing to be dragged 
down by divisiveness and doubts. Now is the time to commit 

ourselves to positive leadership and ideas that help our country 
 grow and prosper.
We have much to be positive about: stronger job growth, 
increasing consumer con˜dence, even our leaders in Washington 

showing signs of working together. Our country is the world™s 
strongest because of our fundamental values of freedom and 
free markets. Our banking industry provides the vital capital that 

allows Americans to buy houses and cars, businesses to create 
jobs and communities to grow. Our mission is a worthy one. We 
help individuals realize their dreams. All of this is accomplished 

through sharing knowledge, providing insight, and delivering on a 
strong value proposition. And when we are successful, all of our 
constituents bene˜t. 
I talk to hundreds of business people every year and recently 
have sensed more optimism about the future, which will lead 
to increased investment after years of pent-up demand. That 

will bene˜t BB&T and other banks with increased loan growth, 
and boost the economy with increased job creation. To be sure, 
lingering uncertainty about healthcare and other costs and 

government regulatory policy continues to make businesses 

reluctant to invest despite the improving economy. But we believe 
those concerns can be eased if government and business leaders 
work positively together to unshackle businesses and unleash 

their potential.
For BB&T, there are many reasons for optimism. In 2013, our 
accomplishments included:
Building our network in the vibrant Texas market, including 
balancing our 30 new commercial branches with the planned 
acquisition of 21 retail branches. In Florida and Alabama, 
 we also continue to reap revenue opportunities in legacy 

Colonial Bank markets.
Expanding our corporate banking presence in key national 
markets, including a new Chicago of˜ce serving the Midwest™s 

robust industrial, consumer and service sectors and food, 
agribusiness and beverage industries.
Leveraging our insurance opportunities from the 2012 
Crump Group acquisition, which makes our largest national-
scale, non-banking business an even more powerful source 
 of diversi˜cation.
Expanding BB&T Wealth, named one of the nation™s top wealth 
management ˜rms by 
Barron™s
 magazine, including our ˜rst 
of˜ce in Texas.
Extending the reach of BB&T Scott & Stringfellow, our highly 
respected, 120-year-old brokerage and financial services 

˜rm, with four new of˜ces in Florida and one in the af˚uent 
Baltimore suburb of Hunt Valley, Maryland.
Increasing ef˜ciency, with investments in sales management 
and other new technology systems.
Dramatically improving credit quality, including the lowest 
loan losses in six years.
Continuing growth in specialized lending, another source 
 of diversi˜cation, with high-quality and high-yield businesses 
such as Regional Acceptance Corporation indirect auto ˜nance 

and Shef˜eld Financial power and sports equipment ˜nance.
Rewarding our shareholders with a very strong absolute return 
of 33% in 2013 Œ consistent with our ultimate purpose to create 

superior, long-term economic rewards to our owners. 
The key to past and future success is a value proposition based 

on quality Œ evidenced by recognition of superior service in 

businesses ranging from mortgage and insurance to small 
business lending and capital markets. In a year of turmoil in the 
mortgage business Œ when seven big banks were forced to pay 

almost $8 billion in settlements related to mortgage lending Œ 

BB&T earned the top customer-satisfaction score in mortgage 
servicing for an unprecedented fourth consecutive year from 
 J.D. Power and Associates. We continue to outperform our 
 in-market peers in overall satisfaction in Maritz Research™s survey 

of retail clients. We are consistently ranked best in class in small 
and medium business relationships by Greenwich Associates, with 

103 awards since 2009, more than any other bank.
Most rewarding to me and many of our associates has been the 
opportunity to touch the lives of 8 million people in our markets 

over the last five years, through 5,500 community-service 
projects by BB&T volunteers as part of our Lighthouse Project. 
 Our mission is a worthy one. 
 We help individuals realize their 
 
dreams. When we are successful, 
 
all of our constituents benefit.
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
Kelly S. King meets with new associates in 
BB&T™s Leadership Development Program
4  |  2013 Annual Report
BB&T™s Increasing Revenue Diversi˜cation
Based on segment revenues; 
segment methodologies 

have changed over time.
Based on segment revenues; 
segment methodologies 

have changed over time.
7%8%9%47%13%16%Community Banking
Residential Mortgage Banking

Dealer Financial Services

Specialized Lending
Financial Services
Insurance Services
Community Banking
Residential Mortgage Banking

Dealer Financial Services

Specialized Lending

Financial Services

Insurance Services
our innovative mobile gaming application introduced in 2013 
that teaches leadership skills to players of all ages. Second, 
in 2014, we will launch The BB&T Leadership Institute, based 
on our leadership model and BB&T subsidiary Farr Associates™ 

leadership program, to offer leadership training to clients and 
educators Œ a natural progression of our belief that to have 
outstanding organizations, you must have outstanding leaders. 

This focus on leadership development complements our long-
standing effort to increase young people™s financial literacy 
through the BB&T Financial Foundations program, which has 

been shared with more than 70,000 high school students in our 
markets. Both our leadership and ˜nancial literacy initiatives are 
part of our commitment to help our clients and communities 

be successful. 
Of course, we still face challenges: tighter credit spreads 
 in lending, a decline in mortgage re˜nancing affecting mortgage 
banking income, intense competition, industry overcapacity, 
some competitors lowering loan standards for growth™s sake, 
to name a few. We confronted those challenges in 2013. For 

example, as competitors stretched for leveraged loan growth that 
was beyond our risk appetite, we did not lower our standards, 
but we have become more price competitive. Most importantly, 

we have become even more responsive to our clients™ needs, 
delivering services through channels they want, whether that be 
in a branch or mobile banking, for example. We have avoided the 

large, across-the-board layoffs of many other banks, preferring 
to challenge our associates to redesign their businesses to both 
increase service quality and decrease costs to better compete 
 in a much more competitive banking world. We consistently 
address our clients™ needs by restructuring where necessary 
 and offering better products and services. 
We also met a challenge in 2013 when federal regulators 
objected to elements of our capital plan. While the Federal 
Reserve™s quantitative ﬁstress testsﬂ demonstrated that BB&T 
 is among the banking industry™s most well-capitalized 
institutions even under extreme stress in their hypothetical 
scenarios, regulators took exception to some of our qualitative 

processes in capital measurement. To meet this challenge, 
 The hard work on behalf of underprivileged children, the 

homeless, military veterans and countless others instills pride 

in our associates (96% of those surveyed said the Lighthouse 
Project made them proud to work for BB&T). The project also 
is the embodiment of our long-held mission to make a positive, 

meaningful difference in the lives of as many people as possible.
In an industry where many banks have similar services and 
strategies, we believe the biggest differentiator from our 

competitors Œ and the foundation of all of our accomplishments Œ 
 is BB&T™s culture, driven by strong values based on honesty. 
 And we believe just as strongly that we must constantly 

communicate those values with a positive leadership model 
that we™ve developed over more than three decades. Some 
people believe that leaders are born. We reject that notion. 
 We believe everyone can be a good leader with the right training 
and coaching Œ developed through deep trusting relationships 
that foster honest feedback. 
We also hope to unlock the next generation of leaders with our 
charitable giving to colleges and universities, our investments 
in ˜nancial literacy training for high school students and two 

particularly exciting and unique projects. The ˜rst is 
LEGAC
Y, In an industry where many banks 
 have similar services and strategies, 
 
we believe the biggest differentiator from 
 our competitors Œ and the foundation 
 
of all of our accomplishments Œ is 
BB&T™s culture, driven by strong 
 values based on honesty.
2013 Revenue Mix
2009 Revenue Mix
10%8%9%60%11%2%2013 Annual Report  
|  5we worked very hard and invested a lot of resources to improve 
our systems Œ investments that will not only give our associates 
better monitoring tools, but also will allow us to leapfrog 
competitors with our most efficient systems. While nothing 
 is guaranteed in today™s regulatory environment, we believe our 
investments and increases in capital every quarter position us 
well to continue to optimize the long-term capital return to our 

shareholders. We™re proud to have one of the highest dividend 
payout percentages and the highest dividend yield of any of 
our peer ˜nancial institutions at December 31, 2013. Since the 

˜nancial-markets crisis in 2009, BB&T™s performance is among 
the strongest in the banking industry: market capitalization is 
up 51%, share price has increased 47%, earnings have more than 

doubled, and BB&T has grown from the
 14th largest U.S. bank to 
ninth largest. 
We believe our long-term strategy and mission position BB&T 
to prosper regardless of the economy and future challenges. Our 

commitment, deeply ingrained in BB&T for
 142 years, is to build 
relationships and an environment where our clients can grow 
their businesses, where our associates can learn and be ful˜lled 
in their work, where we work hard to help our communities 

prosper Œ and where we ultimately deliver an optimized return 
 to our shareholders. 
With positive leadership, a positive attitude and commitment 
 to a positive future for our children and grandchildren, we believe 
our best days are ahead.
2013 Results
BB&T produced record operating results in 2013. Revenue increased, 
our credit quality improved dramatically, and we showed excellent 
momentum in loan and noninterest-bearing deposit growth. Our 
earnings growth was broad-based, including record performances 

from many of our noninterest income-generating businesses, which 
helped offset the industry-wide decline in mortgage banking income. 
Loan growth was well balanced and included strong performances 

in key categories of commercial and industrial lending, automobile 
˜nance, mortgage lending and specialized lending. Noninterest-
bearing deposits showed strong growth as we continued to improve 

the mix to include a greater percentage of noninterest-bearing 
deposits and lower the cost of deposits. Our core net interest 
margin is stabilizing and we remain well positioned for rising 

interest rates. With the nation™s economy at a positive pivotal point, 
BB&T is well positioned for 2014 as we gain traction in the fast-
growing markets in Texas, Florida and Alabama, and we continue to 
 expand our wealth, corporate banking, insurance and specialized 
lending businesses.
Net income available to common shareholders for 2013 totaled 
$1.6 billion, resulting in earnings per diluted share of $2.19, 
including $516 million in tax adjustments related to a previously 
announced court judgment. Excluding those one-time adjustments, 

earnings would have been $2.1 billion, or the equivalent of record 
operating earnings. Total revenues were $9.7 billion. Our long-
term, pre-tax, pre-credit compound annual earnings growth rate 

for the 15-year period ended in 2013 exceeded 10%, a very strong 
achievement. In addition, our pre-tax pre-provision net revenue as 
a percentage of assets has exceeded both an average of our peers 

and an average of the nation™s largest banks over the last 10 years, 
while demonstrating more consistency over that same time period. 
Total Shareholder Returns
For the periods ended December 31, 2013
%1615141312BB&T15.5%12.4%13.1%PeerAverageS&PFinancialsIndex(Percent)%43210BB&T3.0%0.0%1.8%PeerAverageS&PFinancialsIndex(Percent)%43210-1BB&T-1.5%-0.2%S&PFinancialsIndex(Percent)PeerAverage3.6%%121086420BB&T10.5%7.1%7.5%PeerAverageS&PFinancialsIndex(Percent) 3 YE
AR 
10 YE
AR 
15 YE
AR 
20 YE
ARPeers include: CMA, FITB, HBAN, KE
Y, 
MTB, PNC, RF, STI, USB and ZION
 Source: Bloomberg
6  |  2013 Annual Report
Average loans and leases increased by 3.3% compared to 2012, 
including the sale of a consumer lending subsidiary early in 
the fourth quarter of 2013. This growth exceeded the average 
performance of our peers. We enjoyed solid growth in commercial 

and industrial loans as well as strong retail loan growth, led by sales 
˜nance, revolving credit and residential mortgage lending. We also 
were encouraged by a pickup in commercial real estate, which 

increased in the fourth quarter, demonstrating the best growth 
rate in six years. Our specialized lending segment also experienced 
strong performances from Shef˜eld Financial™s power and sports 

equipment ˜nance, AFCO/CAFO/PrimeRate insurance premium 
finance, commercial finance and BB&T equipment finance. 
We are optimistic about a faster pace of loan growth in 2014 
 and hopeful economic activity will continue to improve. 
Average noninterest-bearing deposits grew by 17.3%, leading 
our peer group and well above the peer average of 6.6%. 

That re˚ected our conscious effort to reduce interest-bearing 
deposit costs by successfully reducing higher-cost certi˜cates of 
deposit. We also continue to gain deposit market share from our 

competitors in BB&T™s primary markets, including the Carolinas, 
Virginia and Florida. We expect continued growth in retail 
 and business client deposit balances during 2014.
Our credit quality improved dramatically in 2013. Total 
nonperforming assets as a percentage of average assets declined 
every quarter during the year to 0.58% at year end, excluding 

covered assets, the lowest level in six years and superior to 
the 0.89% average of BB&T™s peers. We expect continued 
improvement at a modest pace in the ˜rst quarter of 2014. Net 

charge-offs, excluding covered loans, declined by 49% since the 
˜rst quarter of 2013, driving a decrease in our loan loss provision 
and other credit-related costs. Net charge-offs ended the year at 

0.49% excluding covered loans, also the lowest rate in six years. We 
expect net charge-offs to remain modestly below our normalized 
range of 50 to 70 basis points for the foreseeable future.
BB&T™s fully taxable equivalent net interest income totaled $5.8 

billion in 2013. Our net interest margin declined, as anticipated, 

to 3.68% from 3.91% for 2012, but still compared favorably with 
the 3.31% average of our peers. The net interest margin, key to 
 a bank™s profitability, is the difference between the interest 
received on loans and investments and the interest paid on 
deposits and other funding, expressed as a percentage of average 
earning assets. The decline in 2013 re˚ected lower interest rates 

on new earning assets and expected runoff of covered assets 
acquired as part of the Colonial transaction, partly offset by 
lower funding costs and favorable funding and asset mix changes. 
 We expect our core margin to be relatively stable in 2014.
Our noninterest, or fee, income totaled $3.9 billion, a 3.1% increase 
over 2012. Investment banking and brokerage fees increased 4.9% 

to a record $383 million while insurance income increased 11.6% 
 to $1.5 billion, partly because of continued improvement in 

market conditions related to insurance premiums. Those gains 

were partially offset by the decline in mortgage banking income. 
BB&T™s fee income ratio increased to 43.2% from 42.5% in 2012, 
comparing favorably with our peer average of 38.1%. A higher 

value indicates a bank is producing more of its net operating 
revenue from fee income and re˚ects our continued success in 
diversifying our sources of revenue. Even with lower mortgage 

revenues, we expect positive net growth in fee income in 2014. 
Our noninterest expenses temporarily increased slightly to 
 $5.8 billion in 2013 as we invested in technology and systems 
that will make BB&T a more efficient company over the long 
term. By the fourth quarter of 2013, expenses began to decline, 
 by 4% annualized compared to the third quarter, as projects 
we initiated earlier in the year neared completion. We expect 
personnel, professional service and regulatory costs to decrease 
in 2014 and total noninterest expenses to trend lower throughout 

the year. We also expect BB&T™s efficiency ratio to improve 
throughout 2014, partly re˚ecting ef˜ciencies gained through 
our investments in 2013. Full-time equivalent employment also 
 is expected to remain essentially ˚at as expense control remains 
a key focus in 2014.
BB&T™s operating return on average assets improved to 1.24% 
 in 2013 from 1.14% in 2012, superior to our peer average of 
1.11%. Our operating return on average common shareholders™ 
equity increased to 10.6% from 10.4%, also superior to our 

peer average of 9.8%. We believe the most important measure 
 of a bank™s consistent long-term earnings power is pre-tax, 
 pre-credit earnings. Over the last 15 years, the compound annual 

growth rate of BB&T™s pre-tax, pre-credit earnings is 10.8%. 
Overall, in a very challenging year, we significantly increased 
BB&T™s financial performance in a wide range of businesses, 

including mortgage, specialized lending, corporate banking, 
wealth, insurance and dealer ˜nance. We dramatically improved 
credit quality and balance sheet diversification. We feel very 

positive as we go forward in 2014. 
%4.153.903.653.403.15(Percent)2008200920112010201220133.58%3.66%4.03%3.50%3.91%3.29%3.26%3.55%4.06%3.45%3.68%3.31%Superior Net Interest Margin
Peers include: CMA, FITB, HBAN, KE
Y, MTB, PNC, RF, STI, USB and ZION
BB&T
Peers
ﬁEveryone we™ve met at BB&T is genuine and really cares about our 
business. That™s different than any other bank we™ve ever dealt with.ﬂ
Danny Janecka, CEO, J&B Sausage Co., Waelder, Texas
San Antonio™s diverse market includes a vibrant 
 tourism sector with attractions like the Alamo.
Oscar Tijerina and the Janecka family are two reasons why BB&T resonates with Texans, and why we have grown rapidly in 
 San Antonio, from zero to 13 branches in less than 18 months by April 2014. Oscar, a 15-year banking veteran, initially was reluctant 
to join a bank with no local branch, until market president Ed White, Jr. showed him BB&T™s values. ﬁBB&T™s philosophy matched up 
perfectly with the person I want to be,ﬂ he says. He promptly called on J&B Sausage Co., a previous client. CEO Danny Janecka also was 
hesitant at ˜rst because of a long relationship with the 55-year-old ˜rm™s previous bank. But Oscar™s persistence, deep understanding of 
J&B™s business Œ and passion about his new bank™s values Œ soon made the Janeckas believers too. Now BB&T™s ˚exible asset-based line 
 of credit for J&B™s working capital needs are fueling the ˜rm™s growth as it markets private-label, Earl Campbell and other branded 
 J Bar B sausage to grocers worldwide.
Left to right: Danny Janecka II, President, J&B Sausage Co.; Ed White, Jr., Market President-San Antonio, BB&T; Stephen Lewis, Senior Vice President, Commercial 
Finance, Corporate Credit Administration, BB&T; Christian Corts, Commercial Finance Specialist/Regional Corporate Banker, BB&T; Danny Janecka, CEO, 
 J&B Sausage Co.; Oscar Tijerina, Regional Corporate Banker, BB&T
8  |  2013 Annual Report
Our Stock Performance
We manage BB&T for the long term Œ a philosophy that 
 is underscored by how we meet our ultimate responsibility 
of optimizing the long-term return to our shareholders, while 
providing a safe and sound investment. In 2013, investors 

continued to recognize the soundness and attractive long-term 
future of the banking industry, as bank stocks outperformed 
 even the very strong increases of the Dow Jones Industrial 
Average and S&P 500 index. And within the industry, investors 
increasingly are recognizing BB&T™s ˜nancial strength and long-
term earnings power.
We believe the best long-term measure of stock performance 
 is total return to shareholders, which includes the change in stock 
 price plus dividends paid. In 2013, our total return to shareholders 
was 33%, a very strong absolute return for one year. Even 
more significantly, BB&T™s 20-year annualized total return to 

shareholders has been 10.5%, compared with the 7.1% average 
of our peers. This performance places BB&T among the ˜rst tier 
 of performance over the long-term versus our peers, the S&P 500 
and the S&P 500 commercial banks index. 
BB&T™s dividend strategy is a vital part of our long-term approach 
Œ and re˚ects the fact that nearly half of our shareholders are 

individuals who have accumulated their shares over many years 
and who depend on our returns and dividends. BB&T has paid 
a cash dividend to shareholders every year since 1903. During 

the recent ﬁGreat Recessionﬂ when many banks eliminated their 
dividends, BB&T was the last major bank to reduce our dividend, 
we reduced it substantially less than our peers, and we were the 

˜rst of the largest banks to announce an increase as the ˜nancial 
markets recovered. We are proud to have the strongest dividend 
yield and one of the highest payout rates among our peers in 
 the banking industry. In the ˜rst quarter of 2013, we increased 
our quarterly dividend to $0.23 per share, a 15% increase from 
 the fourth quarter of 2012.
Our Capital Strength
BB&T is among the nation™s most strongly capitalized banks. 
Our capital levels Œ the margin by which creditors are covered 
if a bank™s assets are liquidated Œ well exceed regulatory 
requirements, including strict new Basel III international capital 

rules established by a group of the world™s top regulators and 
central bankers.
Our capital and capital planning processes were closely 
scrutinized by federal regulators in 2013, and I am proud of 
how BB&T rose to the challenge. In March, the Federal Reserve™s 
ﬁstress testsﬂ showed BB&T was the nation™s most well-capitalized 

traditional bank, even after hypothetical ﬁseverely adverseﬂ 
economic scenarios to gauge banks™ capital strength during 
times of stress. Among the nation™s ﬁsystemically importantﬂ 

large banks, as de˜ned by the Dodd-Frank Act, BB&T was found 
 Capital Strength
Superior Performance...
–With Less Volatility
Tier 1 Capital Ratio
BB&T
Peers
Risk-weighted assets are determined based on regulatory capital requirements. Under the 
regulatory framework for determining risk-weighted assets, each asset class is assigned a 

risk-weighting of 0%, 20%, 50% or 100% based on the underlying risk of the speci˜c asset 

class. In addition, off balance sheet exposures are ˜rst converted to a balance sheet equivalent 

amount and subsequently assigned to one of the four risk-weightings. 
Peers include: CMA, FITB, HBAN, KE
Y, MTB, PNC, RF, STI, USB and ZION
Revenue/average assets 10-year average (2003-2013)
Revenue/average assets 10-year standard deviation (2003-2013)
Volatility measured as 
standard deviation of 

pre-tax, pre-provision 

net revenue/average 

asset ratios 
National peer group: CMA, FITB, HBAN, KE
Y, MTB, PNC, RF, STI, USB and ZION 
Largest four bank holding companies: BAC, C, JPM, WFC
BB&TNational PeersLargest Four Banks0.3%0.4%0.4%BB&TNational PeersLargest Four Banks2.2%1.9%1.9%%12.011.511.010.510.09.5(Percent)4Q121Q132Q133Q134Q1311.4%11.6%11.1%11.7%11.8%10.5%10.6%11.3%11.8%11.5%2013 Annual Report  
|  9to be in the strongest two quartiles and one of only two regional 
banks to remain pro˜table over the nine quarters of the stress test. 
While there are no guarantees in today™s regulatory environment, 
we don™t expect any material issues as the Fed™s Comprehensive 

Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) program continues in 2014.
In another sign of our capital strength, the Fed had no objection 
to our continuation of the ˜rst quarter 2013 dividend of $0.23 per 

share, or continued payment of preferred dividends for BB&T™s 
outstanding classes of preferred stock. As we move into 2014, we 
are committed to continued strong, long-term capital growth for 

our shareholders.
BB&T has clear priorities for use and distribution of its capital. 
The ˜rst priority is maintenance and growth of core business 

operations in a safe and sound manner. Paying regular dividends 
to shareholders is next in priority. Strategic opportunities, 
including mergers or acquisitions that are properly priced and 

make sense for our shareholders, are third in priority. The fourth 
priority is stock buybacks or special dividends, in the absence 
of economically attractive growth opportunities. BB&T™s capital 

management process focuses on ensuring an adequate safety 
margin for the ˜rst two priorities. Priorities three and four are 
uses for excess capital, which may be suspended or modified 
 in response to changing opportunities or unforeseen events.
Under the new Basel III rules, we estimate BB&T™s common 
equity Tier 1 ratio at 9.6%. That measure of equity is the ratio 

that regulators watch most closely. This particular capital ratio 
 is calculated by dividing tangible common shareholders™ equity 
 by assets weighted by their risk.
We believe the bottom line of the 2013 capital story for BB&T 
 is that our capital strength and ˜nancial condition remain among 
the industry™s best, and our capital planning processes now are 

among the industry™s most comprehensive and ef˜cient. Our top 
priority remains rewarding our shareholders over the long term.
Our Leadership Model
We accomplish our mission through leadership. Our leadership 
model is based on a simple premise: people primarily behave 
 in a manner that is consistent with their beliefs.
Many organizations believe that to improve results, you just 
need to make stronger demands. ﬁMake more loans! Get more 
deposits!ﬂ But those demands will mainly create fear and anxiety 
and rarely improve results. Some leaders understand that 
 to change results, you need to change behaviors. But that doesn™t 
go far enough. After years of studying leadership, we have learned 
that for sustained change in results, you need sustained change in 

behavior Œ and, most importantly, the only way to achieve that 
sustained change is for associates to have beliefs that support 
 the behavior.
 BB&T Leads in Dividend Yield
Source: Thomson Reuters as of 12/31/13
%3.002.502.001.501.000.500.00BBTMTBFITBUSBPNCHBANKEYCMARFSTIZION2.47%2.41%2.28%2.28%2.27%2.07%1.64%1.43%1.21%1.09%0.53%(Percent)BB&T increased the quarterly dividend 15% to $0.23 in 1Q13
10  |  2013 Annual Report
In other words, beliefs drive behaviors, which create results. 
Instilling those beliefs is the primary role of leaders. That™s why we 
spend so much time talking to our associates about BB&T™s values, 
because values are fundamentally very deep beliefs. 
Coaching is at the center of our leadership model. Coaching 
is the most important responsibility of a parent, a teacher, 
and a leader at BB&T. Our leaders Œ our coaches Œ help our 

associates achieve as much as they can possibly achieve, always 
looking for opportunities to give positive reinforcement when 
they achieve the desired results. With positive leadership, the 

average performer can become a star performer. At the same 
time, our leadership model acknowledges the reality that we 
don™t start out naturally perfect; we all start out with ˚aws 

and deficiencies. Coaching is crucial to help our associates 
identify what behaviors need to be changed in order to achieve 
 better results.
To be effective, our coaches need to develop a deep trusting 
relationship with their associates. That trust is a precondition 
for the honest communication needed when coaches identify 

weaknesses. Honesty is a fundamental value in the BB&T value 
system. So when people make mistakes, as we all do, we tell them 
the truth and then show them how to do the job more effectively. 

We call it ﬁknow, show, grow.ﬂ
Just as we believe everyone can become a leader, we also 
believe we all are followers Œ not as a passive act, but by 

actively supporting the leader, making contributions and 
furthering the goals of the organization. Most important is a 
trusting, bonding environment so people want to work together, 

one day a leader, one day a follower, but always supporting 
 each other.
BB&T™s leadership model is a vital part of our training program. 
 We are a service organization. We accomplish everything 
through our associates. We are in the business of sharing 
˜nancial knowledge and know we are only as good as the talent 

that we attract, train and retain. One of my most important 
responsibilities is helping our associates become better leaders. 
 I personally teach the leadership model at our classes for both 
new and experienced BB&T bankers.
We work hard to create an environment where associates can 

be energized to achieve all they can. We want our associates 
to experience that ultimate level of self-esteem and pride Œ 
happiness Œ which comes from ﬁdoing their best.ﬂ To do so, we 

encourage our teammates to develop and exhibit what I believe 
are the ˜ve characteristics of outstanding achievers:
Believe absolutely and completely in your mission
Commit the time, energy and resources to make it happen
Train so that you have the best skills in your ˜eld
Enjoy the journey

Maintain an enthusiastic positive attitude 
In 2014, we are expanding our commitment to leadership 
development beyond BB&T by helping develop leaders in the 

business, education and nonprofit sectors. Our leadership 
model will be the centerpiece of training offered through The 
BB&T Leadership Institute. The training also will incorporate 

the closely aligned leadership philosophy of Farr Associates 
that has trained thousands of BB&T leaders over the past 
 two decades.
I have been asked why we would share our leadership model 
beyond BB&T. Why not just corner the market on our brand 
of leadership development? Of course, we will continue 

to develop great leaders, giving us an advantage over our 
competitors. That ultimately rewards our shareholders, a key 
part of BB&T™s mission. But another important part of our 

mission is to better our communities. As we have seen too 
often, our country and our capitalistic system do not work 
well without positive leadership. But with positive leadership, 
 at every level, everyone wins.
ﬁCreative leaders don™t tell 
people what to do. They help 
people decide for themselves 
 what to do.ﬂ
Nido Qubein, President, High Point University
ﬁDesire, vision and focus help you 
 turn the bus in the right direction, 
 but positive energy is necessary 
 to take you where you want to go.ﬂ
Jon Gordon, author, 
The Energy Bus
In 2009, as the recession tightened its grip, Thomas Ransom arrived as market president for BB&T in Montgomery County and 
immediately asked Chamber of Commerce CEO Gigi Godwin how the bank could help with Project Lighthouse. His priority: nonpro˜ts 
serving the next generation of leaders. Since then, Thomas and more than 80 BB&T associates have stuffed backpacks with food 
 for school kids who otherwise would go hungry on weekends, sponsored a special children™s theater performance for kids who had 
never been to a play, taught ˜nancial literacy and much more. For Hearts & Homes for Youth, BB&T crews did ﬁextreme makeoversﬂ 
of three shelters for abused and neglected boys and girls Œ painting, refurnishing, landscaping, and earning the trust of residents 

accustomed to disappointment. ﬁThey showed our kids BB&T isn™t some inanimate object, but a bank with a soul, a dedication that 
is wide and deep,ﬂ said Hearts & Homes CEO and Founder Rex Smith.
Left to right: Thomas Ransom, Market President, BB&T; Rex Smith, President/CEO, Hearts & Homes for Youth; Gigi Godwin, CEO, Montgomery County 
Chamber of Commerce, on the front steps of Helen Smith Girls™ Home, one of the shelters operated by Hearts & Homes
ﬁBB&T associates understand life is not about 
material possessions. It™s about leaving a legacy Œ 
 being a giver, not a taker, someone who lives 
 on purpose.ﬂ
Thomas Ransom, BB&T Market President, Bethesda, Maryland, 
 accepting the Montgomery County Chamber of Commerce corporate 
 social responsibility award
12  |  2013 Annual Report
Our Key Strategic Objectives for 2014
We believe the key to leadership and success is to start with 
 a clearly stated vision, then have a solid strategy to get you from 
where you are today to where you want to be. To achieve our 
vision Œ creating the best ˜nancial institution possible Œ each year 

BB&T™s senior management team sets our strategic objectives 
 and then constantly monitors our progress. 
The first step is to recognize the economic environment, 
competitive landscape and other realities that both present 
opportunities and pose challenges as we pursue our objectives. 
We never sugarcoat the challenges. For 2014, relatively low 

interest rates by historic standards will continue to constrain 
banks™ net interest margin, a key driver of pro˜tability. While 
businesses are growing more optimistic about the economy, 
their appetite for loans and investment is still tempered by 
anxiety over healthcare and other costs, uncertain tax policy 
 and increasing regulation.
Banking industry overcapacity and intense competition also 
remain challenges, but we believe BB&T is well positioned 
 to take advantage as the industry consolidates. I am hopeful the 
mergers-and-acquisitions logjam will begin to break in 2014. 
More positive leadership and regulatory certainty in Washington 

will play a role, but the most powerful force is the long-term 
consolidation trend that has reduced the number of U.S. banks 
by nearly half to about 7,000 over the last 20 years. I continue to 

believe BB&T™s long-term performance and strategy positions us 
to be among the relatively small number of regional banks, along 
with a few national banks, that will dominate the industry over 
 the next decade.
That consolidation will be positive for the industry and Œ with 
our discipline to select only strategic acquisitions that meet 

our rigorous criteria Œ it will be very positive for BB&T and our 
shareholders. The key to positioning ourselves to take advantage 
of consolidation and other opportunities is a superior earnings-

per-share growth rate without sacrificing the fundamental 
quality and long-term competitiveness of our business, nor taking 
unreasonable risk. Stated simply, we don™t believe in growth 

for growth™s sake. When growing through organic expansion or 
acquisition makes sense and enhances our ability to perform 
better for our constituents, then we should do it. When it doesn™t 

make sense, we should not. 
For BB&T, we believe opportunities abound in 2014: our many 
revenue opportunities, a lower loan loss provision made possible 
by our superior credit quality and an increasingly pro˜table mix of 

loans and deposits, to mention a few. The strategic objectives that 
will help us seize the opportunities are outlined on the following 
pages. Underscoring each objective is a laser focus on our vision 

and a mission dedicated to the success of our clients, associates, 
communities and shareholders.
Strong Returns Through the Cycle
Return on Average Assets
Return on Average Common Equity
BB&T
Peers
BB&T
Peers
Peers include: CMA, FITB, HBAN, KE
Y, MTB, PNC, RF, STI, USB and ZION
Excludes impact of tax-related charges during 2013
Source: SNL and Company Reports
Underscoring each objective is 
 a laser focus on our vision, and 
 a mission dedicated to the success 
 
of our clients, associates, 
communities and shareholders.
%1.501.000.500.00-0.50-1.00(Percent)200920102011201220130.56%0.54%0.86%1.14%1.24%-0.82%0.50%1.09%0.82%1.11%%15.010.05.00.0-5.0-10.0-15.0(Percent)200920102011201220134.9%4.9%7.2%10.4%10.6%-13.0%3.3%9.5%7.5%9.8%2013 Annual Report  
|  13Deliver the BB&T Value Promise, 
 Thereby Creating the Perfect Client 
Experience
We recognize that most banks offer similar products and services. 
To distinguish BB&T, our ˜rst mission is not to simply sell products 
and services, but to help our clients achieve economic success and 
˜nancial security. Similarly, our core strategy is not to simply sell 

at the lowest price, but to deliver the best value proposition in 
the marketplace. That value is based on quality over price. During 
the volatile last several years, consumers turned to financial 

institutions they could trust Œ and that offered the best service 
quality. BB&T™s commitment to our value promise to our clients 
and our overarching commitment to live our values have been the 

keys to our success.
In turn, delivering on our value promise is possible in large 
part because of BB&T™s commitment to community banking. 
 Our community bankers are visible, local leaders who are 
empowered to make most decisions locally. At the same time, 
they offer clients access to the diverse products and services 

of the nation™s ninth-largest bank, ranging from insurance 
and investments to capital markets and wealth management. 
 Our client-centered relationships are built on BB&T™s Perfect 
Client Experience Œ service that is reliable, responsive, empathetic 
and competent Œ delivered to every client, every day.
Of course, lofty claims of superior service are easy to make. At 
 BB&T, we are proud to have earned consistent independent 
validation of our service quality. J.D. Power and Associates ranked 
BB&T highest in customer satisfaction among primary U.S. mortgage 

servicing companies, the ˜rst time a company has won the award 
for four straight years. Greenwich Associates singled out BB&T™s 
small business and middle market banking groups for 103 awards 

since 2009 Œ more than any other bank Œ based on interviews with 
more than 17,000 U.S. small businesses and nearly 14,000 middle-
market companies. Maritz Research™s survey of retail clients again 

ranked BB&T No. 1 among our in-market peers in clients™ overall 
bank satisfaction, overall branch satisfaction and likelihood to bank 
with us in the future. Keystone Competitive Research named BB&T™s 
retail banking website No. 1 in overall customer experience for the 

second year in a row. Other independent groups recognized BB&T™s 
industry-leading performance in services ranging from equity 
research and ˜nancial advising to college banking service.
Sadly, the financial services industry has a poorer reputation 
than any other major sector of the U.S. economy, according to 
a 2013 survey of bank reputation by 
American Banker
. While 
that view may not be surprising after the financial-markets 
crisis, I believe it is misplaced because banks have played 
 a central role in the economic recovery. I also believe consumers 
increasingly will recognize our industry™s value as banks continue 
to stimulate economic growth and create jobs. BB&T will help 
lead the transformation of public opinion with our unmatched 

Perfect Client Experience and our tireless efforts to make our 
communities better places to live.
Ensure a Strong Associate Value Proposition
Closely related to BB&T™s value promise to clients is our value 
proposition to our associates. We cannot deliver superior service 
quality without superior-performing associates. We recognize that 
superior performance doesn™t happen magically. It must be taught. 

That™s why we invest so much time talking to our associates about 
BB&T™s values. It™s also why we devote so much energy developing 
leaders who can effectively communicate those values.
We demonstrate our values by starting with a positive work 
environment, including continued pay raises even during tough 
economic times, extensive health and wellness benefits and 

a retirement program offering both a pension and employer-
matched 401(k) plan. We believe that is reflected in our low 
associate turnover rate and the consistently high scores in our 

annual anonymous survey of associates. 
Winner of 20 Excellence Awards 
 from Greenwich Associates: 15 National 
Awards and 5 Regional Awards 
Received 103 awards since 2009, 
 more than any other bank
Greenwich Associates 2013 U.S. Middle Market Banking Study 
 and U.S. Small Business Banking Study
ﬁHighest in Customer Satisfaction among 
 Mortgage Servicing Companies, Four Years in a Row.ﬂ
Branch Banking and Trust received the highest numerical score among mortgage servicers 
in the proprietary J.D. Power and Associates 2013 Primary Mortgage Servicer Study
SM. The 
results were based on responses from 4,669 homeowners regarding their experiences with 
their primary mortgage services. Proprietary study results are based on experiences and 
perceptions of consumers surveyed between April and May 2013. 
Your experiences may vary. 
Visit jdpower.com.
14  |  2013 Annual Report
Values form the foundation of everything we do at BB&T. Those 
core values haven™t changed in decades, but bear repeating here 
just as we constantly repeat them to our associates: 
Character 
that depends on honesty and integrity; 
judgment
 that requires 
reason, recognizing reality and independent thinking; 
success
 that 
results from productivity, teamwork and justice; and ultimately 

happiness
, which is built on self-esteem and pride.
BB&T™s associate training program, ranked best in the ˜nancial 
services industry by 
Training Magazine
, focuses heavily on 
leadership because we believe everyone can become a good 
leader with continuous coaching, positive reinforcement and 
honest feedback. 
Supporting the communities where we work and live is a vital 
part of both BB&T™s mission and the value proposition to our 
associates. BB&T has been blessed for a long time because our 

communities have supported us, and we have a responsibility 
 to give back to them, particularly when times get tough. In 2009, 

we launched Project Lighthouse to help our communities as 

they struggled in a troubled economy. The concept was simple: 
we would dedicate $100 per associate, as well as at least four 
volunteer hours on company time, for the betterment of our 

communities. After ˜ve years, Project Lighthouse has touched 
the lives of more than 8 million people. Our associates have 
volunteered 265,000 hours to complete 5,500 community 

service projects aimed at helping those needing a hand. 
Associates regularly tell me those efforts Œ including other 
projects outside of Lighthouse, which 85% of our associates 

participate in Œ make them proud to work at BB&T. It also makes 
me tremendously proud of our associates.
We also reach out to the youth in our communities by sponsoring 
˜nancial literacy programs in 1,300 high schools to help students 
learn about the responsible use of credit and other lessons to 
prepare for economic success and ˜nancial security. BB&T is the 

nation™s largest sponsor of EverFi programs, a web-based ˜nancial 
literacy curriculum.
Underlying our associate value proposition is a simple but 
powerful message: Our ultimate goal in supporting the 
community is not to gain recognition or even promote products, 
but to make our communities better places to be by doing all 

we can to make a positive, meaningful difference in the lives 
 of as many people as possible.
Accelerate Revenue Growth 
 in a Very Competitive 
Environment
BB&T is positioned for accelerated revenue growth because of 
our balanced approach and diversi˜ed businesses. Geographically, 
our steadily growing primary markets in the Southeast and 
 Mid-Atlantic are balanced with opportunities for rapid expansion 
in robust Texas, BB&T™s newest market, and building out other 
attractive, relatively new markets in Florida and Alabama. 
Our balance is also reflected in BB&T™s sources of revenue, 

with roughly half coming from our core community banking 
operations and half from our national fee-income businesses. 
The diversi˜cation of those businesses has driven our revenue 

growth much faster than the median level of our peers. BB&T™s 
fee-income businesses also diversify our balance sheet through 
non-real estate loans and low-cost deposits, bolster our margins 

through strong, risk-adjusted yield and sustain our pro˜tability 
 in slower economic cycles.
Our investments in Texas in 2013 increased our visibility and clout 
in a state that is among the nation™s fastest growing, with some 
1,000 people migrating there every day. We completed opening 
30 new commercial branches in the vibrant Dallas, Houston, 

Austin and San Antonio markets. In December, we added balance 
to our developing Texas franchise by agreeing to acquire 21 retail 
Delivering on All Components of Pro˜tability
Strong Ef˜ciency Ratio
Growth in Fee Income Ratio
BB&T
Peers
BB&T
Peers
The efficiency ratio reflects the 
cost to produce each dollar of 

revenue, expressed as a percentage, 

i.e., lower percentages represent 

more ef˜cient operations.
A higher fee income ratio indicates 
a bank is producing more of its 
 net operating revenue from non-

interest income and has more 

diverse sources of revenue.
Excludes securities gains (losses), foreclosed property expense, amortization of intangible 

assets, merger-related and restructuring charges, the impact of FDIC loss share accounting, 

and other selected items
Peers include: CMA, FITB, HBAN, KE
Y, MTB, PNC, RF, USB and ZION
Source: SNL and Company Reports
%65.060.055.050.045.0(Percent)2009201020112012201359.2%60.8%63.4%54.3%63.7%50.4%53.9%55.2%63.5%58.5%%45.043.041.039.037.035.0(Percent)2009201020112012201342.8%41.0%39.7%37.7%43.2%39.9%37.5%37.1%42.5%38.0%ﬁWe are a bank. We still like to lend. We focus on building long-term 
partnerships, not just the next transaction or the next fee.ﬂ
Michael Laurie, Team Leader of BB&T™s Food, Agribusiness and Beverage Corporate Banking Group in Chicago
BB&T extended the reach of our national corporate banking strategy with a new Chicago of˜ce, home to bankers covering the Midwest™s 
robust industrial, consumer and service sectors and specialized bankers focused on the food, agribusiness and beverage industries. 
BB&T™s corporate bankers Œ with long tenures in the Midwest Œ and our strong balance sheet resonate with large corporate clients 
familiar with our other established national businesses to meet their needs for capital and other ˜nancial services. BB&T has a long 
history in agriculture, and the new food, agribusiness and beverage team is a perfect complement to BB&T Capital Market™s existing 

expertise in equity research and investment banking. Deep industry knowledge is a key differentiator for companies in this sector 
that value our bankers™ experience and understanding of speci˜c issues that affect companies across the ﬁfood chain.ﬂ BB&T also has 
opened new corporate banking of˜ces in New York, Cincinnati, San Francisco and Irvine, California.
Left to right: Michael Laurie, Senior Vice President, Corporate Banking Team Leader, Food, Agribusiness and Beverage Group, BB&T; Kurt Anstaett, Senior 
Vice President, Corporate Banker, BB&T; John Malloy, Senior Vice President, Corporate Banker, BB&T; Gaby Uzdin, Sales & Service Of˜cer, Food, Agribusiness 
 and Beverage Group, BB&T
16
  |  2013 Annual Report
branches in Austin, San Antonio and Bryan-College Station Œ 
 a new market for us and home of fast-growing Texas A&M 
University, where we will immediately gain the No. 1 market 
share. BB&T™s ˜ve markets are home to about 20 million of the 

state™s 26.5 million residents.
BB&T™s value proposition plays well in Texas with our strong values 
and proven track record of serving clients and communities. Many 

of BB&T™s new associates have long tenures in Texas community 
banking, so we have Texans serving Texans. In three years, starting 
with 22 branches and ranked 53rd in market share when we 

entered the state in 2009 with the Colonial acquisition, BB&T 
will become a top 20 bank in Texas with 81 ˜nancial centers, 
$2.8 billion of deposits and $2.1 billion of loans when our pending 

acquisition closes. Our presence extends well beyond our core 
bankers, who join colleagues in BB&T businesses ranging from 
capital markets serving the booming energy sector to investment 

services and auto finance. We believe our Texas model has 
the potential to be replicated in other attractive regions such 
 as the Midwest.
BB&T™s national corporate banking group continues to expand 
in attractive markets including the Midwest, with a new team 
 of experienced bankers in Chicago. Among other industries, the 
team will serve food, agribusiness and beverage companies, 
tapping the region™s rich concentration of producers, processors 
and packagers. With more ﬁfeet on the streetﬂ in Chicago 
 and other key national markets including Dallas, Cincinnati, 
New 
York, San Francisco and Irvine, California, BB&T™s corporate 
banking team is winning multifaceted relationships at a time 
when several major corporate banking lenders downsized or 
disappeared. In addition to corporate banking services ranging 
from loan syndications to treasury management, the relationships 

often grow to include opportunities for other BB&T businesses 
such as McGriff, Seibels & Williams insurance brokerage 
 and Grandbridge Real Estate Capital.
BB&T Insurance Holdings, the nation™s sixth-largest insurance 
broker, has become an even bigger driver of our diversi˜cation, 
now accounting for 16% of total revenue. To put that in 

perspective, insurance revenue is two-and-a-half times greater 
than our mortgage banking income, a more volatile source 
of income that declined 33% as the refinancing boom ebbed 
 in 2013 Œ causing sharp cutbacks by banks not as well diversi˜ed. 
We are realizing the full benefits of our 2012 Crump Group 
acquisition, which doubled our wholesale revenue and added 
 a rich new line of life insurance products that complement BB&T™s 
wealth management, investment services and other businesses. In 
2013, our employee bene˜ts consulting operations launched two 

private insurance exchanges to offer employers and employees 
more health insurance options. With the transformation of the 
nation™s healthcare market, the potential is huge: By 2017, nearly 

20% of employees nationwide could get their health insurance 
through a private exchange, according to Accenture Research. 
Meanwhile, Precept Group, BB&T™s employee-bene˜ts consulting 
˜rm based in California, is a leader in advising small businesses on 

healthcare costs and other issues. And as insurance premiums rise, 
we are well positioned with AFCO/CAFO Prime Rate, the largest 
insurance premium ˜nance company in the U.S. and Canada.
We are attracting baby boomers and more af˚uent clients to 
three synergistic businesses: BB&T Wealth, which manages just 
under $50 billion in client assets and has a new of˜ce in Dallas; 

BB&T Scott & Stringfellow, our brokerage and ˜nancial services 
˜rm with new of˜ces in Florida and plans to expand throughout 
the Southeast and mid-Atlantic; and our trust business, which 

turned in record income in 2013.
With the exception of mortgage banking income, we expect 
growth in all of our fee-based businesses in 2014. We also 

expect continued improvement in loan demand, with growth in 
important BB&T categories including auto dealer ˜nance and the 
multifamily, of˜ce and retail sectors of commercial real estate. 

Our specialized lending subsidiaries provide another important 
source of diversi˜cation.
On the deposit side, we continue to improve the mix and lower 
the cost by focusing on noninterest-bearing deposits, while not 
pursuing more expensive time deposits. A key growth area is 
BB&T@Work, a premium package of ˜nancial products and services 

for employees of participating companies.
Develop the Risk Management Culture Throughout 
 the Organization to Position the Bank to 
 
Take Advantage of Opportunities
The conservative nature of BB&T™s risk management culture 
has served us well for 142 years, most recently when we Œ and 
the entire banking industry Œ were tested during the ﬁGreat 
Recession.ﬂ We were proud to be one of the few banks to remain 

profitable throughout the financial-markets crisis and now, as 
the economy improves, we™re pleased by our outstanding credit 
quality measures. Our in˚ows of nonperforming assets continue to 

decline and are at the lowest level since the pre-crisis year of 2007.
Unfortunately, memories are short, and complacency is now one 
of our industry™s biggest risks. We believe some lenders have again 

taken on too much credit risk to cushion the blow from lower 
mortgage-banking revenue amid intensifying competition for 
commercial loans. Instead, BB&T has reaf˜rmed our commitment 

to risk management with safeguards that clearly establish our 
 risk parameters.
For example, we provide independent oversight of all risk-taking 
activities; translate risk appetite into prudent risk processes 
 through effective policies, procedures and limits; and identify, 

assess, measure, control, monitor and report for seven risk types: 

credit, market, liquidity, operational, regulatory, reputation and 
strategic. Our senior management Risk Management Committee 
evaluates the assessment of risk appetite on a quarterly basis. 
ﬁBB&T™s deal made the most ˜nancial sense, 
and we have a comfort level that we can pick 
up the phone anytime and get an answer.ﬂ
Labinco Clarke, Chief Financial Officer, Brazos Presbyterian Homes
BB&T faced an obstacle when ˜rst bidding for the business of Brazos Presbyterian Homes, a Houston-based retirement community 
operator. It was 2009, and BB&T™s Texas expansion had not yet begun. ﬁI didn™t know anything about BB&T,ﬂ recalls Brazos CEO 
Sheryl Callahan. But BB&T™s Capital Markets group™s responsiveness, industry expertise and competitive terms convinced Brazos 
that BB&T was the right partner. Our team created a phased ˜nancing approach that included four debt issuances utilizing multiple 
structures, totaling $132.5 million. Along the way, BB&T provided the capital for a 14-story expansion project Œ and saved Brazos about 
$500,000 in annual interest expense when Senior Vice President Brandon Powell persuaded Brazos™ board to fund part of the ˜nancing 
when interest rates were lower. Financing nonpro˜t healthcare providers like Brazos is a priority for BB&T Healthcare Finance, one 
 of 11 Capital Markets™ industry specialties. And Texas represents a signi˜cant opportunity: BB&T has ˜nanced six Texas retirement 
community projects in the last two years.
Left to right: Sheryl Callahan, Chief Executive Of˜cer, Brazos Presbyterian Homes; Labinco Clarke, Chief Financial Of˜cer, Brazos Presbyterian Homes; 
 Sam Mintz, Vice President, BB&T Scott & Stringfellow; Brandon Powell, Senior Vice President, Healthcare Finance Group, BB&T Capital Markets; Carl Shafer, 
Senior Vice President, Healthcare Corporate Banking, BB&T Capital Markets; William J. Toomey II, President, Houston & Central Texas Region, BB&T
18  |  2013 Annual Report
We also have invested in new automated systems that provide 
improved ˜nancial information both internally and externally. 
Our five-year strategy to diversify BB&T™s balance sheet has 
resulted in reduced exposure to more volatile real estate and 

increased our focus on more stable commercial and industrial 
loans, while improving the quality of our deposit structure. 
 We have reduced our exposure to land and construction loans 
 by 80% since 2007.
Our community bankers are linked to enhanced support from 
BB&T™s Credit Administration, with six credit centers throughout 

our banking markets. The partnership reduces variability in credit 
disciplines, while continuing to allow our community bankers 
autonomy in making most decisions locally.
In 2013, when BB&T™s capital planning processes were scrutinized 
by the federal regulators, we were heartened by independent 
af˜rmation of our risk management culture. In one report, the 

Fitch ratings agency noted that BB&T™s ﬁoverall credit profile 
 is still underpinned by a conservative risk culture and consistent 

performance through the most recent downturn.ﬂ
As our nation™s economy improves, we believe BB&T™s long 
tradition of conservative risk management, combined with our 

enhanced risk assessment resources, strongly positions us to 
take advantage of immediate and long-term opportunities, while 
continuing to meet our obligation to provide shareholders a safe 

and sound investment.
Optimize Cost Structure by Reconceptualizing 
 and 
Enhancing the 
Effectiveness of Our Businesses
Relentless competition forces all banks to confront an undeniable 
mandate: we must constantly ˜nd ways to reduce expenses and 
become more ef˜cient. This challenge has become even tougher 
in the last several years as new regulatory requirements have led 

to increased embedded costs. Superior performance is simply 
impossible without disciplined cost consciousness.
In 2013 we addressed the need to make investments in auto-
 mated systems and operational structures to increase our 
ef˜ciency for the long term. For example, we invested in general 
ledger and commercial loan systems to make needed updates. 

We also made changes to drive revenue growth with lower costs 
in our community bank, including closing suboptimal branches 
and reducing administrative positions and market regions. We 

restructured and centralized our mortgage operation to increase 
ef˜ciency and more effectively comply with new regulations. 
Importantly, we did not take the easy, and ultimately counter
-productive, route by making large, across-the-board cuts to our 
staf˜ng levels Œ a top-down approach followed by many of BB&T™s 
competitors. We believe that approach causes unnecessary fear 

and anxiety, sapping morale, and often postpones and masks 
the need for more systematic changes. Instead, we are upfront 
with our associates about the cost-control realities we face, 

and then challenge them to help redesign their businesses for 
greater ef˜ciency. Not surprisingly, the associates closest to the 
business often know best what can change to both lower cost and 
 improve performance.
While the investments and changes caused a temporary spike 
 in our expenses in 2013, they positioned BB&T for long-term 
gain that will enable us to continue to outperform our peers. Our 
ef˜ciency ratio Œ which measures expenses as a percentage of 
revenues, so lower percentages signal improved performance Œ 
 increased in 2013 to 58.5%, though still compared favorably with 
our peer average of 63.7%. But now, as we increasingly realize 
the ef˜ciencies of new systems and other changes, we expect 

our ef˜ciency ratio to improve and our expenses to trend lower 
throughout 2014. By year-end, we expect the ef˜ciency ratio to be 
in the 55% to 56% range as we work to move to our longer-term 

goal of 52%. The reduced expenses and increased ef˜ciencies
Strong Risk-Adjusted Returns
Return on Risk-Weighted Assets
Return on Average Tangible Common Equity
BB&T
Peers
BB&T
Peers
Peers include: CMA, FITB, HBAN, KE
Y, 
MTB, PNC, RF, STI, USB and ZION
Excludes impact of tax-related 
charges during 2013
Source: SNL and Company Reports
Peers include: CMA, FITB, HBAN, KE
Y, 
MTB, PNC, RF, STI, USB and ZION
Excludes impact of tax-related 
charges during 2013
Source: SNL and Company Reports
%2.001.501.000.500.00-0.50-1.00-1.50(Percent)200920102011201220130.70%0.67%1.00%1.54%1.63%-0.92%0.57%1.28%1.06%1.32%%20.0015.0010.005.000.00-5.00-10.00-15.00(Percent)200920102011201220139.45%8.73%10.34%17.39%17.49%-10.81%4.44%13.24%12.60%13.22%2013 Annual Report  
|  19already began to appear in the fourth quarter of 2013, with a 4% 
 annualized decline in noninterest expenses and improvement 
 in the ef˜ciency ratio from the third quarter.
We know a constant focus on cost control is not the most 
enjoyable part of our job as bankers, and often can be painful. But 
it is a prime example of one of BB&T™s most important values Œ 
 recognizing reality Œ and ultimately enables us to thrive at the 
part of our job that 
is the most enjoyable: helping our clients 
 achieve economic success and ˜nancial security.
Thank You
For more than 35 years, including nearly two decades as BB&T™s 

Chief Executive Of˜cer, John Allison has been a leader who has 
guided and inspired us to be ﬁthe best of the best.ﬂ After retiring 
as CEO in 2008 and as chairman in 2009 as part of our systematic 

succession plan, he has continued to offer his wise counsel 
 as a member of BB&T™s board of directors. As of our April 29, 2014 

annual meeting, John will retire from the board and devote more 

time to the Cato Institute, where he is president and CEO.
The importance of John™s leadership is immeasurable. He presided 
over BB&T™s transformation into one of the nation™s highest 

performing financial services companies Œ growing from an 
eastern North Carolina farm bank to the 14th largest ˜nancial 
holding company spread over 11 states with $152 billion in assets 

when he retired as CEO. His ˜rm belief in free markets has long 
been the compass of our values-driven bank. 
I also would like to express my deep appreciation to Robert E. 
Greene, who is retiring effective March 31, 2014. In 40 years at 
BB&T, Rob has excelled in many roles, ranging from his current 
position as manager of Administrative Services and president of 

our subsidiary Branch Banking and Trust Company to past jobs 
 as regional credit executive and city executive. John and Rob will 

be missed. 
A new addition to our Executive Management team is Robert J. 
Johnson, BB&T™s general counsel, secretary and chief corporate 
governance officer. Bob is a proven leader who has guided 

the Legal Department and served as chief legal advisor to the 
Executive Management team and the boards of directors of BB&T 
Corp. and BB&T Bank since joining us in 2005.
A crucial part of BB&T™s long-term success is our commitment 
to long-term continuity in our leadership team. Members of 
our Executive Management team have an average of 29 years 

of service, assuring the values that form our foundation endure 
for decades. At the same time, we recognize that we also must 
attract leaders from outside BB&T to constantly inject valuable 

fresh perspectives.
The dedication and deep commitment of BB&T™s board of 
directors also has been crucial to our long-term optimum 
performance. They each have been instrumental in helping guide 

me and other BB&T leaders as we have navigated a challenging 
and rapidly changing environment.
I am equally indebted to our 33,696 associates, who inspire 
me every day with the many ways they help our clients and 
communities be successful.
I take it as a deep, personal responsibility that those associates 
and their families, those millions of clients and those thousands 
 of communities are directly dependent on decisions we make. 
 It is a very humbling experience. But it is also exciting to know 

that we can make a positive impact with our daily decisions.
There is no shortage of challenges in an unforgiving new banking 
world, with its ever-increasing competitive, economic and 

regulatory pressures. But I have never been prouder as we worked 
together to overcome the challenges of 2013 and position BB&T 
for more growth and success in 2014 and beyond.
Our community banking model produces the best value 
proposition in the marketplace. Our diversi˜ed, stable business 
mix is resilient in all operating environments. We are uniquely 

positioned in the vibrant Southeast and Mid-Atlantic regions, 
with untapped and bountiful opportunities in Texas and our other 
newer markets.
By staying true to our vision, mission and values and reaf˜rming 
our faith in the power of positive leadership, and with your 
continuing support, I am con˜dent that our best days are ahead.
Kelly S. King
Chairman and Chief Executive Of˜cer
February 24, 2014
I have never been prouder as we 
worked together to overcome the 

challenges of 2013 and position 

BB&T for more growth and success 
in 2014 and beyond.
Corporate Board of Directors
Jennifer S. Banner
 Chief Executive Of˜cer
 Schaad Companies, LLC
 and President and CEO
 SchaadSource, LLC
 Knoxville, Tenn.
K. David Boyer, Jr.
 Chief Executive Of˜cer
 GlobalWatch 
 Technologies, Inc.
 Oakton, Va.

Anna R. Cablik
 President
 Anasteel & Supply 
Company, LLC and
 Anatek, Inc.
 Marietta, Ga.
Ronald E. Deal
 Chairman
 Wesley Hall, Inc.
 Hickory, N.C.
James A. Faulkner
 Retired CEO
 Century South Banks
 Dahlonega, Ga.

I. Patricia Henry
 Retired Director 
 of Strategic Projects
 Miller Brewing Co.
 Stone Mountain, Ga.
John P. Howe III, M.D.
 President and
 Chief Executive Of˜cer
 Project HOPE
 (Health Opportunities
 for People Everywhere)
 Washington, D.C.

Eric C. Kendrick
 President
 Mereck Associates, Inc.
 Arlington, Va.

Kelly S. King
 Chairman and
 Chief Executive Of˜cer
 BB&T Corporation
 Winston-Salem, N.C.
Louis B. Lynn
 President and Chief 
Executive Of˜cer
 ENVIRO AgScience, Inc.
 Columbia, S.C.
Edward C. Milligan
 Retired Chairman
 Main Street Banks, Inc.
 Marietta, Ga.

Charles A. Patton
 Consultant
 Former President and CEO
 Virginia First Savings Bank
 Hopewell, Va.
Nido R. Qubein
 President
 High Point University
 Chairman
 Great Harvest Bread Co.
 High Point, N.C.

Tollie W. Rich, Jr.
 Retired Chief 
 Operating Of˜cer
 Life Savings Bank
 Cape Coral, Fla.

Thomas E. Skains
 Chairman, President and 
Chief Executive Of˜cer
 Piedmont Natural
 Gas Company, Inc.
 Charlotte, N.C.
Thomas N. Thompson 

President
 Thompson Homes, Inc.
 Representative
 Kentucky House
 of Representatives
 Owensboro, Ky.
Edwin H. Welch, Ph.D.
 President
 University of Charleston 
 Charleston, W.Va.

Stephen T. Williams
 President
 A.T. Williams Oil Co.
 Winston-Salem, N.C.
Standing left to right: Barbara Duck, Daryl Bible, Ricky Brown, Kelly King, Chris Henson, Clarke Starnes, Steve Wiggs
Seated left to right: Bob Johnson, Donna Goodrich, Rob Greene, Cynthia Williams, Rufus Yates
Daryl N. Bible
 Senior Executive Vice 
President and Chief 
Financial Of˜cer 
Ricky K. Brown
 Senior Executive Vice 
President and President, 
Community Banking
Barbara F. Duck
 Senior Executive Vice 
President and Enterprise 
Risk Manager
Donna C. Goodrich
 Senior Executive Vice 
President and Deposit 
Services Manager
 Robert E. Greene
 Senior Executive 
Vice President and 
Administrative 
 Group Manager 
Christopher L. Henson
 Chief Operating Of˜cer
Robert J. Johnson
 General Counsel, 
Secretary and Chief 
Corporate Governance 
Of˜cer 
Kelly S. King
 Chairman and Chief 
Executive Of˜cer
Clarke R. Starnes III
 Senior Executive 
 Vice President and 
 Chief Risk Of˜cer
Steven B. Wiggs
 Senior Executive Vice 
President and Chief 
Marketing Of˜cer and 
Lending Group Manager
Cynthia A. Williams
 Senior Executive 
Vice President and 
Chief Corporate 

Communications Of˜cer
W. Rufus Yates
 Senior Executive Vice 
President and Capital 
Markets Manager
Executive Management
  
 
 
  
UNITED STATES
 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
  
FORM 10-K
 
  
 
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) 
OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 
 
Commission File Number: 1-10853
 
 
BB&T CORPORATION
 
(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its Charter)
 
 
 
 
 
North Carolina
 
56-0939887
 
(State of Incorporation)
 
(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 
 
 
200 West Second Street
 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina
 
27101
 
(Address of principal executive offices)
 
(Zip Code)
 
 (336) 733-2000 
 
(Registrant™s telephone number, including area code)
 
  
 
Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934:
 
 
 
Title of each class
 
Name of each exchange
 
on which registered
 
Common Stock, $5 par value New York Stock Exchange 
Depositary Shares each representing 1/1,000
t
h
 interest in a share of 
Series D Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock 
New York Stock Exchange 
Depositary Shares each representing 1/1,000
t
h
 interest in a share of 
Series E Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock 
New York Stock Exchange 
Depositary Shares each representing 1/1,000
t
h
 interest in a share of 
Series F Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock 
New York Stock Exchange 
Depositary Shares each representing 1/1,000
t
h
 interest in a share of 
Series G Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock 
New York Stock Exchange 
 
Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes 
 [X]   No  [  ] 
Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to f
ile reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.   
 Yes  [  ]   No  [X] 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all re
ports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Secu
rities Exchange Act of 
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2)
 has been subject to such filing 
requirements for the past 90 days.     Yes  [X]   No  [  ] 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electr
onically and posted on its corporate website, if any, every I
nteractive Data File 
required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 m
onths (or for such shorter 
period that the Registrant was required to submit and 
post such files).     Yes  [X]   No  [  ] 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant
 to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and w
ill not be contained, to 
the best of Registrant™s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by references in Part III of thi
s Form 10-K or any amendment 
to this Form 10-K.    [  ] 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a
 smaller reporting company.  
See the definitions of ﬁlarge accelerated filer,ﬂ ﬁaccelerated filerﬂ and ﬁsmaller reporting companyﬂ in Rule 12b-2 of the Exch
ange Act. 
 
Large accelerated filer X  Accelerated filer  
Non-accelerated filer   (Do not check if a smaller
 reporting company) Smaller reporting company  
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).    Yes  [  ]   No  [X] 
At January 31, 2014, the Company had 710,891,276  shares of its 
Common Stock, $5 par value, outstanding. As of June 30, 2013, t
he aggregate market 
value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the Company was approximately $23.7 billion. 
  
2 
 
BB&T CORPORATION 
 
Index 
December 31, 2013 
 
 
  
 
Page Nos. 
PART I
 
Item 1 
Business 
 
7  
Item 1A 
Risk Factors 
 
21  
Item 1B 
Unresolved Staff Comments 
- (None to be reported) 
 
 
Item 2 
Properties 
 
29  
Item 3 
Legal Proceedings (see Note 12 and Note 14) 
 
123, 127 
Item 4 
Mine Safety Disclosures - (Not applicable) 
 
 
PART II 
Item 5 
Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Relate
d Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases 
of Equity Securities 
 
29  
Item 6 
Selected Financial Data 
 
33  
Item 7 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
 
34  
Item 7A 
Quantitative and Qualitative Di
sclosures About Market Risk (s
ee Market Risk Management) 
 
73  
Item 8 
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 
 
 
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets 
 
86  
 
Consolidated Statements of Income 
 
87  
 
Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 
 
88  
 
Consolidated Statements of Chan
ges in Shareholders' Equity 
 
89  
 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
 
90  
 
N
otes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 
91  
 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
 
85  
 
Quarterly Financial Summary 
 
82  
Item 9 
Changes in and Disagreements With Accountan
ts on Accounting and Financial Disclosure - 
(None to be reported) 
 
 
Item 9A 
Controls and Procedures 
 
84  
Item 9B 
Other Information - (None to be reported) 
 
 
PART III 
Item 10 
Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
 
* 
Item 11 
Executive Compensation 
 
* 
Item 12 
Security Ownership of Certain 
Beneficial Owners and Manage
ment and Related Stockholder 
Matters 
 
* 
Item 13 
Certain Relationships and Related Tran
sactions, and Director Independence 
 
* 
Item 14 
Principal Accounting Fees and Services 
 
* 
PART IV 
Item 15 
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 
 
 
 
Financial Statements - (see Listing in Item 8 above) 
 
 
 
Exhibits 
 
150  
 
Financial Statement Schedules - (None required) 
 
 
  
  
3 
 
  
* For information regarding executive officers, refer to ﬁExecutive Officers of BB&Tﬂ in Part I. The other 
information required by Item 10 is incorporated here
in by reference to the information that appears 
under the headings ﬁProposal 1-El
ection of Directors,ﬂ ﬁCorporate Governance Mattersﬂ and ﬁSection 
16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Complianceﬂ in the Registrant™s Proxy Statement for the 2014 
Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  
  
  
  The information required by Item 11 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that appears 
under the headings ﬁCompensation Discussion and An
alysis,ﬂ ﬁCompensation of Executive Officers,ﬂ 
ﬁCompensation Committee Report on Executive Co
mpensation,ﬂ ﬁCompensation Committee Interlocks 
and Insider Participationﬂ and ﬁCompensation of Dir
ectorsﬂ in the Registrant™s
 Proxy Statement for the 
2014 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  
  
  
  For information regarding the registrant™s securitie
s authorized for issuance u
nder equity compensation 
plans, refer to ﬁEquity Compensatio
n Plan Informationﬂ in Part II.  
  
  
  The other information required by Item 12 is incorp
orated herein by reference to the information that 
appears under the headings ﬁStock Ownership Inform
ationﬂ and ﬁCompensation of Executive Officersﬂ 
in the Registrant™s Proxy Statement for th
e 2014 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  
  
  
  The information required by Item 13 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that appears 
under the headings ﬁCorporate Governance Matters
ﬂ and ﬁTransactions with Executive Officers and 
Directorsﬂ in the Registrant™s Proxy Statement 
for the 2014 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  
  
  
  The information required by Item 14 is incorporated herein by reference to the information that appears 
under the headings ﬁFees to Audito
rsﬂ and ﬁCorporate Governance Ma
ttersﬂ in the Registrant™s Proxy 
Statement for the 2014 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  
  
4 
 
Glossary of Defined Terms
 
The following terms may be used through
out this Report, including the consolidated
 financial statements and related notes. 
 
Term
 
 
Definition
 
2006 Repurchase Plan
 
 
Plan for the repurchase of up to 50
 million shares of BB&T™s common stock 
ADC
 
 
Acquisition, development and construction 
ACL 
 
Allowance for credit losses 
AFS 
 
Available-for-sale 
ALLL 
 
Allowance for loan and lease losses 
AOCI
 
 
Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) 
BankAtlantic
 
 
BankAtlantic, a federal savings association acquired by BB&T from BankAtlantic Bancorp, Inc. 
Basel III
 
 
Global regulatory standards on ba
nk capital adequacy and liqui
dity published by the BCBS 
BB&T
 
 
BB&T Corporation and subsidiaries 
BB&T FSB 
 
BB&T Financial, FSB 
BCBS
 
 
Basel Committee on Bank Supervision 
BHC 
 
Bank holding company 
BHCA
 
 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended 
Branch Bank
 
 
Branch Banking and Trust Company  
CCAR
 
 
Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review  
CD 
 
Certificate of deposit 
CDI
 
 
Core deposit intangible assets 
CFPB
 
 
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau  
Colonial
 
 
Collectively, certain assets and liabilities of Co
lonial Bank acquired by BB&T in 2009 
Company
 
 
BB&T Corporation and subsidiaries (interchangeable with "BB&T" above) 
Council
 
 
Financial Stability Oversight Council  
CRA
 
 
Community Reinvestme
nt Act of 1977  
CRE
 
 
Commercial real estate 
Crump Insurance
 
 
The life and property and casualty insurance operations acquired from the Crump Group 
DIF
 
 
Deposit Insurance Fund administered by the FDIC 
Directors™ Plan
 
 
N
on-Employee Directors™ Stock Option Plan  
Dodd-Frank Act
 
 
Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform 
and Consumer Protection Act  
EPS
 
 
Earnings per common share 
ERP 
 
Enterprise resource planning 
EU
 
 
European Union 
EVE
 
 
Economic value of equity  
Exchange Act
 
 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended  
FASB
 
 
Financial Accounting Standards Board  
FDIC
 
 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation  
FHA
 
 
Federal Housing Administration 
FHC 
 
Financial Holding Company 
FHLB
 
 
Federal Home Loan Bank  
FHLMC
 
 
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation  
FINRA
 
 
Financial Industry Re
gulatory Authority  
FNMA
 
 
Federal National Mortgage Association  
FRB
 
 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
FTE
 
 
Fully taxable-equivalent  
FTP
 
 
Funds transfer pricing  
GAAP
 
 
Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America  
GNMA
 
 
Government National Mortgage Association  
Grandbridge
 
 
Grandbridge Real Estate Capital, LLC  
GSE
 
 
U.S. government-sponsored enterprise  
HTM 
 
Held-to-maturity 
IMLAFA
 
 
International Money Laundering
 Abatement and Financial An
ti-Terrorism Act of 2001  
IPV 
 
Independent price verification 
IRS 
 
Internal Revenue Service 
ISDA 
 
International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. 
  
5 
 
Term
 
 
Definition
 
LHFS 
 
Loans held for sale 
LIBOR
 
 
London Interbank Offered Rate  
LOB
 
 
Line of business  
MBS
 
 
Mortgage-backed securities 
MRLCC
 
 
Market Risk, Liquidity and Capital Committee  
MSR
 
 
Mortgage servicing right 
MSRB
 
 
Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board 
NIM 
 
N
et interest margin 
NPA
 
 
N
onperforming asse
t
 
NPL
 
 
N
onperforming loan  
NPR
 
 
N
otice of Proposed Rulemaking 
NYSE
 
 
N
YSE Euronext, Inc. 
OAS
 
 
Option adjusted spread  
OCC
 
 
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency  
OCI
 
 
Other comprehensive income (loss) 
OREO
 
 
Other real estate owned  
OTS
 
 
Office of Thrift Supervision  
OTTI
 
 
Other-than-temporary impairment  
Parent Company
 
 
BB&T Corporation, the parent company of 
Branch Bank and other subsidiaries 
Patriot Act
 
 
Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing 
Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and 
Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 
Peer Group
 
 
Financial holding companies included 
in the industry peer group index  
Reform Act
 
 
Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005  
RMO
 
 
Risk Management Organization  
RSU 
 
Restricted stock unit 
RUFC 
 
Reserve for unfunded lending commitments 
S&P
 
 
Standard & Poor's 
SBIC
 
 
Small Business Investment Company 
SCAP
 
 
Supervisory Capital Assessment Program  
SEC
 
 
Securities and Exchange Commission  
Short-Term 
Borrowings 
 
Federal funds purchased, secur
ities sold under repurchase ag
reements and other short-term 
borrowed funds with original matu
rities of less than one year 
Simulation
 
 
Interest sensitivity simulation analysis  
TBA 
 
To be announced 
TDR
 
 
Troubled debt restructuring 
U.S.
 
 
United States of America 
U.S. Treasury
 
 
United States Department of the Treasury  
UPB 
 
Unpaid principal balance 
VA
 
 
U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs 
VaR
 
 
Value-at-risk  
VIE
 
 
Variable interest entity 
 
 
 
 
Forward-Looking Statements 
 
 
This Annual Report on Form 10-K cont
ains ﬁforward-looking statementsﬂ within
 the meaning of the Private Securities 
Litigation Reform Act of 1995, regarding the financial condition,
 results of operations, business plans and the future 
performance of BB&T that are based on the beliefs and as
sumptions of the management of BB&T and the information 
available to management at the time that these disclosures were prepared. Words such as ﬁanticipates,ﬂ ﬁbelieves,ﬂ 
ﬁestimates,ﬂ ﬁexpects,ﬂ ﬁforecasts,ﬂ ﬁinte
nds,ﬂ ﬁplans,ﬂ ﬁprojects,ﬂ ﬁmay,ﬂ ﬁwill,ﬂ ﬁshould,ﬂ ﬁcould,ﬂ and other similar 
expressions are intended to identify these forward-looking statements. Such statements are subject to factors that could cause 
actual results to differ materially from 
anticipated results. Such
 factors include, but are not
 limited to, the following:  
 

 
general economic or business conditions, either nationally 
or regionally, may be less favorable than expected, 
resulting in, among other things, a deterioration in credit quality and/or a reduced demand for credit, insurance or 
other services; 
 
  
6 
 

 
disruptions to the credit and financial 
markets, either nationally or globally, in
cluding the impact of a downgrade of 
U.S. government obligations by one of 
the credit ratings agencies and the adve
rse effects of recessionary conditions 
in Europe; 
 

 
changes in the interest rate environment and cash flow 
reassessments may reduce NI
M and/or the volumes and 
values of loans made or held as well as
 the value of other financial assets held; 
 

 
competitive pressures among depository and other fi
nancial institutions may increase significantly; 
 

 
legislative, regulatory or accoun
ting changes, including ch
anges resulting from the adoption and implementation of 
the Dodd-Frank Act may adversely affect the businesses in which BB&T is engaged; 
 

 
local, state or federal taxing authorities may tak
e tax positions that are adverse to BB&T; 
 

 
a reduction may occur in BB&T™s credit ratings; 
 

 
adverse changes may occur 
in the securities markets; 
 

 
competitors of BB&T may have greater financial resources an
d develop products that enable them to compete more 
successfully than BB&T and may be subject to different regulatory standards than BB&T; 
 

 
natural or other disasters could have 
an adverse effect on BB&T in that su
ch events could materially disrupt 
BB&T™s operations or the ability or willingness of BB&T™s customers to access the financial services BB&T offers; 
 

 
costs or difficulties related to the inte
gration of the businesses of BB&T and its merger partners may be greater than 
expected; 
 

 
expected cost savings or revenue growth associated w
ith completed mergers and acquisitions may not be fully 
realized or realized within the expected time frames; 
 

 
significant litigation could have a material adverse effect on BB&T; 
 

 
deposit attrition, customer loss and/or revenue loss followi
ng completed mergers and acquisitions may be greater 
than expected; and 
 

 
cyber-security risks, including ﬁden
ial of service,ﬂ ﬁhackingﬂ and ﬁidentity 
theft,ﬂ could adversely affect our 
business and financial performance, or our reputation. 
 
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of 
this report. Actual results may differ 
materially from those expressed in or implie
d by any forward-looking statement. Except 
to the extent required by app
licable law or regulation, BB&T undertakes no ob
ligation to revise or update publicly any 
forward-looking statements for any reason. 
  
  
7 
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS 
 
 
BB&T is a financial holding company he
adquartered in Winston-Salem, North 
Carolina. BB&T conducts its business 
operations primarily through its bank subsidiary
, Branch Bank, and other nonbank subsidiaries. 
 
Operating Subsidiaries 
 
 
Principal operating subsidiaries
 include the following:  
 

 
Branch Banking and Trust Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina  
 

 
BB&T Securities, LLC, Richmond, Virginia 
 

 
Regional Acceptance Corporation, 
Greenville, North Carolina  
 

 
American Coastal Insurance Company, Davie, Florida  
 

 
Sterling Capital Management, LLC, Charlotte, North Carolina  
 
Branch Bank, BB&T™s largest subsidiary, was chartered in 1872 
and is the oldest bank head
quartered in North Carolina. 
Branch Bank provides a wide range of 
banking and trust services for retail and commercial clients in its geographic markets, 
including small and mid-size businesses, public agencies, local gover
nments and individuals, th
rough 1,825 offices (as of 
December 31, 2013). BB&T FSB was merged into Branch Bank effective January 1, 2013. Branch Bank™s principal 
operating subsidiaries include: 
 

 
BB&T Equipment Finance Corporation, based in Charlotte, No
rth Carolina, which provides loan and lease financing 
to commercial and small businesses;  
 

 
BB&T Insurance Services, Inc., headquartered in Raleigh, Nort
h Carolina, which offers property and casualty, life, 
health, employee benefits, commercial general liability, suret
y, title and other insurance 
products through its agency 
network;  
 

 
BB&T Investment Services, Inc., a registered broker-dealer
 located in Charlotte, North Carolina, which offers 
clients non-deposit investment products, including discount 
brokerage services, equities, fixed-rate, variable-rate and 
index annuities, mutual funds, g
overnment and municipal bond
s, and money market funds;  
 

 
CRC Insurance Services, Inc., based in 
Birmingham, Alabama, which is a whol
esale insurance broker authorized to 
do business nationwide; 
 

 
Crump Life Insurance Services, Inc., based in Pennsylvan
ia, which is a wholesale insurance broker authorized to do 
business nationwide; 
 

 
Grandbridge, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, which sp
ecializes in arranging and se
rvicing commercial mortgage 
loans; 
 

 
McGriff, Seibels & Williams, Inc., based in Birmingham, Alabama, which is authorized to do business nationwide 
and specializes in providing insurance products on an agency basis to large commercial clients, including many 
Fortune 500 companies; and 
 

 
Prime Rate Premium Finance Corporation, 
Inc., located in Florence, South Ca
rolina, and its su
bsidiaries, which 
include AFCO Credit Corporation, that 
provide insurance premium financing 
to clients in the United States and 
Canada. 
 
Major Nonbank Subsidiaries 
 
 
BB&T also has a number of nonbank subsidiaries, including: 
 

 
American Coastal Insurance Company, an admitted Florida specialty insurance company that underwrites property 
insurance risks for commercial condominium or cooperative associations; 
  
8 
 
 

 
BB&T Securities, LLC, which is a registered investment
 banking and full-service brokerage firm that provides 
services in retail brokerage, equity and debt underwriting, 
investment advice, corporate 
finance and equity research; 
and facilitates the origination, trading and 
distribution of fixed-income secur
ities and equity products in both the 
public and private capital markets. BB&T Securities, LLC also 
provides correspondent clear
ing services to broker-
dealers and entities involved in the securities industry; 
 

 
Regional Acceptance Corporation, which specializes in indir
ect financing for consumer purchases of primarily mid-
model and late-model used automobiles; and 
 

 
Sterling Capital Management, LLC, a 
registered inve
stment advisor, which provides tailored investment 
management solutions to meet 
the specific needs and objectives of individua
l and institutional c
lients through a full 
range of investment strategies. 
 
Services  
 
BB&T™s subsidiaries offer a variety of services targeted to 
retail and commercial clients. BB&T™s obj
ective is to offer clients
 
a full array of products to meet all their financial needs. 
 
 
Retail Services: 
   
Commercial Services: 
 
 
 
Asset management 
   
 
Asset management 
 
 
 
Automobile lending 
   
 
Association services 
 
 
 
Bankcard lending 
   
 
Capital markets services 
 
 
 
Consumer finance 
   
 
Commercial deposit services 
 
 
 
Home equity lending 
   
 
Commercial finance 
 
 
 
Home mortgage lending 
   
 
Commercial middle market lending 
 
 
 
Insurance 
   
 
Commercial mortgage lending 
 
 
 
Investment brokerage services 
 
 
Corporate banking 
 
 
 
Mobile/online banking 
   
 
Institutional trust services 
 
 
 
Payment solutions 
   
 
Insurance 
 
 
 
Retail deposit services 
   
 
Insurance premium finance 
 
 
 
Sales finance 
   
 
International banking services 
 
 
 
Small business lending 
   
 
Leasing 
 
 
 
Wealth management/private banking 
   
 
Merchant services 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Mortgage warehouse lending 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Payment solutions 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Private equity investments 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Real estate lending 
 
 
 
 
   
 
Supply chain management 
 
 
  
9 
 
M
arket Area
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table reflects BB&T™s deposit market share and branch locations by state:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 1 
BB&T Deposit Market Share and Branch Locations by State  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
% of BB&T's 
Deposits (2) 
Deposit Market 
Share Rank (2)
 
 
Number of 
Branches (3)
 
 
N
orth Carolina (1) 
 
 23 
% 
2nd 
 358  
 
Virginia 
 
 20 
 
4th 
 365  
 
Florida 
 
 15 
 
6th 
 326  
 
Georgia 
 
 11 
 
5th 
 162  
 
Maryland 
 
 7 
 
7th 
 125  
 
South Carolina 
 
 7 
 
3rd 
 115  
 
West Virginia 
 
 5 
 
1st 
 78  
 
Kentucky 
 
 4 
 
4th 
 82  
 
Alabama 
 
 4 
 
4th 
 87  
 
Tennessee 
 
 2 
 
6th 
 52  
 
Texas 
 
 1 
 
37th 
 60  
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 1 
 
7th 
 13  
 (1) 
Excludes home office deposits. 
 (2) 
Source: FDIC.gov-data as
 of June 30, 2013. 
 (3) 
As of December 31, 2013. Excludes two branches in Indiana. 
 
BB&T operates in markets that have a diverse employment 
base covering numerous industries. Management strongly 
believes that BB&T™s community bank approach to providing clie
nt service is a competitive advantage that strengthens the 
Company™s ability to effectively provide financial products an
d services to businesses and individuals in its markets. 
Furthermore, BB&T believes its current market area will suppo
rt growth in assets and deposits in the future. 
 
Competition
 
 
The financial services industry is highly competitive, and ch
ange continues to occur in all aspects of BB&T™s business. 
BB&T™s subsidiaries compete actively with national, regional and lo
cal financial services providers, including banks, thrifts, 
securities dealers, mortgage bankers, finance companies an
d insurance companies. Competiti
on among providers of financial 
products and services continues to increase, with consumers havi
ng the opportunity to select from a variety of traditional and 
nontraditional alternatives. The industry con
tinues to consolidate, whic
h affects competition by eliminating some regional 
and local institutions, while stre
ngthening the franchises of acquirers. For 
additional information concerning markets, 
BB&T™s competitive position and business strategies, and recent government interventions see ﬁMarket Areaﬂ above and 
ﬁGeneral Business Developmentﬂ below. 
 
General Business Development  
 
BB&T is a regional financial holding company. BB&T has main
tained a long-term focus on 
a strategy that includes 
expanding and diversifying its franchise 
in terms of revenues, profitability and as
set size. This strategy has historically 
encompassed both organic growth and acquisitions of complement
ary banks and financial businesses. During recent years, 
BB&T has focused more on organic growth, but 
is well positioned for strategic opportunities. 
 
Merger and Acquisition Strategy 
 
 
BB&T™s growth in business, profitability and market share ha
s historically been enhanced by strategic mergers and 
acquisitions. Management intends to remain disciplined an
d focused with regard to fu
ture merger and acquisition 
opportunities. BB&T will continue to assess 
bank and thrift acquisitions subject to 
market conditions, primarily within or 
contiguous to BB&T™s existing 
footprint, and will pursue economically advantag
eous acquisitions of insurance agencies, 
specialized lending businesses, and fee income generating financial services businesses. BB&T™s strategy is currently 
focused on meeting the following
 three acquisition criteria:  
 
  
10 
 

 
must be strategically attractive Œ meaning that any bank acqui
sition should be in BB&T™s existing footprint to allow 
for cost savings and economies of scale 
or in contiguous states to provide ma
rket diversification, or the transaction 
must be otherwise strategically compelling;  
 

 
any risk-related issues would need to be addressed; and 
 

 
must meet BB&T™s financial criteria. 
 
Regulatory Considerations 
 
 
The following discussion describes elements of an extensive re
gulatory framework applicable to BHCs, FHCs and banks and 
contains specific information about BB&T. Regulation of banks,
 BHCs and FHCs is intended primarily for the protection of 
depositors, the DIF and the stability of the financial system, ra
ther than for the protection of 
shareholders and creditors. As
 
described in more detail below, compre
hensive reform
 of the legislative and regulatory land
scape occurred with the passage 
of the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010. Impl
ementation of the Dodd-Frank Act and r
elated rulemaking activities co
ntinued in 2013. 
In addition to banking laws, regulations and regulatory agenc
ies, BB&T is subject to various other laws, regulations, 
supervision and examination by other regulatory agencies, all 
of which directly or indirectly
 affect the operations and 
management of BB&T and its ability to ma
ke distributions to shareholders. 
 
BB&T™s earnings are affected by general economic conditions, ma
nagement policies, changes in state and federal laws and 
regulations and actions of various 
regulatory authorities, including those referred to
 in this section. Proposals to change the
 
laws and regulations to which BB&T is subject are frequently in
troduced at both the federal and state levels. The likelihood 
and timing of any such changes and the impact such change
s may have on BB&T is impossible to determine with any 
certainty. The description herein 
summarizes the significant state and federal la
ws to which BB&T currently is subject. To 
the extent statutory or re
gulatory provisions are described 
in this section, such 
descriptions are qualified in their entirety 
by 
reference to the particular stat
utory or regulatory provisions. 
 
Financial Regulatory Reform  
 
During the past several years, there has been a significant in
crease in regulation and regulatory
 oversight for U.S. financial 
services firms, primarily resulting from the Dodd-Frank 
Act. The Dodd-Frank Act is
 extensive, complicated and 
comprehensive legislation that impacts practically all aspects of
 a banking organization, represe
nting a significant overhaul o
f 
many aspects of the regulation of
 the financial services industry. The Dodd-Fr
ank Act implements numer
ous and far-reaching 
changes that affect financial companies, including bank
s, BHCs and FHCs such as BB&T, by, among other things: 
 

 
requiring regulation and oversight of 
large, systemically important financia
l institutions by establishing an 
interagency council on systemic risk 
and implementation of heightened prud
ential standards and regulation by the 
FRB for systemically important financial institutions (incl
uding nonbank financial companies), as well as the 
implementation of the FDIC resolution 
procedures for liquidation of large fi
nancial companies to avoid market 
disruption; 
 

 
applying the same leverage and risk-bas
ed capital requirements that apply to 
insured depository institutions to most 
BHCs, savings and loan 
holding companies and systemically import
ant nonbank financial companies; 
 

 
limiting the FRB™s emergency authority to lend to no
ndepository institutions to 
facilities with broad-based 
eligibility, and authorizing the FDIC to 
establish an emergency financial s
tabilization fund for so
lvent depository 
institutions and their 
holding companies, sub
ject to the approval of Congress, the S
ecretary of the U.S. Treasury and 
the FRB; 
 

 
centralizing responsibility for 
consumer financial protection by creating an
 independent agency, the CFPB, with 
responsibility for implementing, enforcing and examin
ing compliance with federal consumer financial laws; 
 

 
creating regimes for regulation of over-t
he-counter derivatives and non-admitte
d property and casualty insurers and 
reinsurers; 
 
  
11 
 

 
requiring that any interchange transactio
n fee charged for a debit transaction be 
ﬁreasonable and proportionalﬂ to the 
cost incurred by the issuer for the transaction, with regulations that establish such fee standards, eliminating 
exclusivity arrangements between issuers and networks fo
r debit card transactions and limiting restrictions on 
merchant discounting for use of certain payment forms and minimum or maximum amount thresholds as a condition 
for acceptance of credit cards; 
 

 
implementing regulation of hedge 
fund and private equity advi
sers by requiring such advi
sers to register with the 
SEC; 
 

 
providing for the implementation of certain corporate go
vernance provisions for all public companies concerning 
executive compensation; 
 

 
increasing the FDIC™s deposit insurance limits permanently 
to $250,000 for non-transaction accounts and changing 
the assessment base as well as increasing the reserve ratio for the DIF to ensure the future strength of the DIF; and 
 

 
reforming regulation of credit rating agencies. 
 
Many of the provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are subject 
to further rulemaking, guidan
ce and interpretation by the 
applicable federal regulators. BB&T will continue to evaluate th
e impact of any new regulati
ons so promulgated, including 
changes in regulatory costs and fees, modifications to cons
umer products or disclosures 
required by the CFPB and the 
requirements of the enhanced su
pervision provisions, among others. 
 
As a BHC and an FHC under federal law, BB&T is subject to regulation under the BHCA and the examination and reporting 
requirements of the FRB. Branch Bank, a North Carolin
a state-chartered commercial bank, is subject to regulation, 
supervision and examination by the North Carolina 
Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC and the CFPB. 
 
State and federal law govern the activities in which Branch Bank engages, the investments it makes and the aggregate amount 
of loans that may be granted to one borrower. Various 
consumer and compliance laws and regulations also affect its 
operations. Branch Bank also is affected by
 the actions of the FRB as it attempts to
 control the monetary supply and credit 
availability in order to 
influence the economy. 
 
In addition to federal and state banking laws and regulations, BB
&T and certain of its subsidiaries and affiliates, including 
those that engage in securities 
underwriting, dealing, brokerage, 
investment advisory and insurance activities, are subject to 
other federal and state laws and regulations, and supervision and 
examination by other state and federal regulatory agencies 
and other regulatory authorities, including the SEC, FINRA, 
NYSE and various state insuran
ce and securities regulators. 
 
FHC Regulation  
 
Under current federal law, as a BHC, BB&T has elected to become
 an FHC, which allows it to of
fer customers virtually any 
type of service that is financial in nature or incidental thereto
, including banking and activities closely related thereto, 
securities underwriting, insurance (both unde
rwriting and agency) and merchant banki
ng. In order to qualify and maintain its 
status as an FHC, an FHC and all of its affiliated depository in
stitutions must be well-capitalized and well-managed and have 
at least a satisfactory CRA rating. If the FRB determines that an
 FHC is not well-capitalized or
 well-managed, the company 
has a period of time to comply, but during the period of noncompliance, the FRB can place any limitations on the FHC that it 
believes to be appropriate. Furthermore, if the FRB determin
es that an FHC has not maintained
 a satisfactory CRA rating, the 
company will not be able to commence an
y new financial activities or acquire a co
mpany that engages in such activities, 
although the company will still be allowed to engage in activ
ities closely related to banking 
and make investments in the 
ordinary course of conducting me
rchant banking activities.  
 
Most of the financial activities that are permissible for FHCs also
 are permissible for a bank™s ﬁfinancial subsidiary,ﬂ except
 
for insurance underwriting, insurance compan
y portfolio investments, real estate invest
ments and development, and merchant 
banking, which must be conducted in an FHC. In order for a fina
ncial subsidiary of a bank to engage in permissible financial 
activities, federal law requires the parent bank (and its si
ster-bank affiliates) to be well-capitalized and well-managed; the 
aggregate consolidated assets of all of that bank™s financial subsid
iaries may not exceed the lesser of 45% of its consolidated
 
total assets or $50 billion; the bank must have at least a satisf
actory CRA rating; and, if that bank is one of the 100 largest
 
national banks, it must meet certain financ
ial rating or other comparable requirements. 
 
  
12 
 
Current federal law also establishes a system of functiona
l regulation under which the FRB is the umbrella regulator for 
BHCs, but BHC affiliates are principally regulated by functi
onal regulators such as the FDIC for state nonmember bank 
affiliates, the SEC for securities affiliates and state insuran
ce regulators for insurance 
affiliates. Certain specific activit
ies, 
including traditional bank trust and fiduciary activities may be 
conducted in the bank
 without the bank
 being deemed a 
ﬁbrokerﬂ or a ﬁdealerﬂ in securities for purposes of functiona
l regulation. Although states ge
nerally must regulate bank 
insurance activities in a nondiscriminatory manner, states may c
ontinue to adopt and enforce ru
les that specifically regulate 
bank insurance activities in
 certain identifiable areas. 
 
The Dodd-Frank Act establishes additiona
l regulation for BHCs, which generally ap
ply to BB&T. The Council is required 
under the Dodd-Frank Act to monitor 
emerging risks to financial stability, reco
mmend heightened prudential standards for 
large, interconnected financial companies and 
require certain nonbank financial compan
ies to be supervised by the FRB if 
their activities are determined to pose a risk to financial stability. 
 
The Dodd-Frank Act also imposes new prud
ential regulation on depository 
institutions and their ho
lding companies. The law 
imposes new, more stringent standards and requirements with 
respect to (1) bank and nonbank acquisitions and mergers, (2) 
FHCs engaged in ﬁfinancial activities,ﬂ 
(3) affiliate transactions and (4) propr
ietary trading, among other provisions. 
 
Enhanced Supervision Standards for Systemically Important Financial Institutions 
 
The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FRB to establish enhanced 
supervision and prudential standards applicable to large, 
interconnected financial institutions, including
 BHCs like BB&T, with total consolidated
 assets of $50 billion or more (often 
referred to as systemically important financial institutions). In December 2012, the FRB published a notice of proposed 
rulemaking to implement the enhanced prudential standards requi
red to be established under section 165 of the Dodd-Frank 
Act and the early remediation requirements established unde
r section 166 of the Dodd-Fra
nk Act for fo
reign banking 
organizations and foreign nonban
k financial companies supervised by the F
RB. The enhanced pruden
tial standards include 
risk-based capital and 
leverage requireme
nts, liquidity standards, risk manageme
nt and risk committee requirements, single-
counterparty credit limits, stress test requirements and a 
debt-to-equity limit for companies
 that the Financial Stability 
Oversight Council has determined 
pose a grave threat to financial stability. In Fe
bruary 2014, the FRB i
ssued the final rule on
 
enhanced prudential standards.  
 
Resolution Planning 
 
FRB and FDIC regulations require ﬁcovered companiesﬂ such
 as BB&T and systemically important financial institutions 
such as Branch Bank to file,
 maintain and update plans for a rapi
d and orderly resolution in the 
event of material financial 
distress or failure (a ﬁliving willﬂ). Both the FRB and the FDIC
 must review and approve BB
&T™s and Branch Bank™s living 
wills and are authorized to impose restri
ctions on BB&T™s and Branch Bank™s growth
 and activities or operations if deemed 
necessary. BB&T™s initial plans were submitted to the FRB and the FDIC in December 2013, and the public portion of the 
submission is available in the Additional Di
sclosures section of the Investor Relati
ons site at www.bbt.com/about. Following 
the initial submission, BB&T is required to submit annual resolution plans by December 31 of each subsequent year. 
 
CCAR and Stress Test Requirements 
 
Current FRB rules require BHCs such as BB&T with $50 billion or more of total consolidated assets to submit annual capital 
plans based on pre-defined stress scenarios. Such BHCs will also 
be required to collect and report certain related data on a 
quarterly basis to allow the FRB to m
onitor the companies™ progre
ss against their an
nual capital plans. Covered BHCs, 
including BB&T, may pay dividends and repurchase stock only in accordance with a capital plan that has been reviewed by 
the FRB and as to which the FRB has not objected. The rules al
so require, among other things, that a covered BHC may not 
make a capital distribution unless, after 
giving effect to the distribution, it 
will meet all minimum regulatory capital ratios
 and 
have a ratio of Basel I Tier 1 common cap
ital to risk-weighted assets of at least 5%
. BB&T submitted its 
2013 capital plan for 
review in January 2013 and was notified 
by the FRB in March 2013 that the FRB 
did not object to the continuation of 
dividend payments in the same amount as first quarter divi
dends, and that the FRB had no objection to the continued 
payment of preferred dividends; however the FRB did object to
 certain other elements of BB&T™s capital plan which were 
unrelated to BB&T™s capital strength, earnings power or financ
ial condition. BB&T submitted a 
revised capital plan to the 
FRB in June 2013 and the FRB subseque
ntly notified BB&T in
 August 2013 that it had no objection to the revised capital 
plan. 
 
  
13 
 
In addition to the CCAR process, the Dodd-Frank Act require
s the FRB to conduct an annual supervisory stress test for 
BHCs such as BB&T with $50 billion or more of total conso
lidated assets and to conduct 
semi-annual company-run stress 
tests. In October 2012, the FRB adopted fi
nal stress testing rules for covered BHCs th
at describe the types of supervisory 
scenarios that may be provided in connection with the annu
al CCAR process and require that BB&T (as well as other 
covered BHCs) conduct a separate mid-year stress test, file the resu
lts of such test with the FRB in early July and publicly 
disclose details of the scenario and the impact on BHC capital by the end of September of each year. On September 20, 2013, 
BB&T released the results of its company-ru
n midcycle stress test, which are available
 in the Additional Disclosures section 
of the Investor Relations site on www.bbt.com/about. 
 
The Dodd-Frank Act also requires the FDIC to conduct an annual 
supervisory stress test for 
FDIC-insured state nonmember 
banks such as Branch Bank with $50 billio
n or more of total consolidated assets an
d requires such institutions to conduct 
annual company-run stress tests. The FDIC adopted final annual 
stress testing rules in Oct
ober 2012. The results of the 
annual supervisory stress test are included in 
the annual capital plan submitted to the FDIC.  
 
Acquisitions  
 
BB&T complies with numerous laws related to its acquis
ition activity. Under the BHCA, a BHC may not directly or 
indirectly acquire ownership or
 control of more than 5% of 
the voting shares or substantially 
all of the assets of any BHC or 
bank or merge or consolidate with a
nother BHC without the prior approval of th
e FRB. Current federal law authorizes 
interstate acquisitions of banks and BHCs without geographic 
limitation. Furthermore, a bank headquartered in one state is 
authorized to merge with a bank headquartered in another st
ate, subject to any state require
ment that the target bank shall 
have been in existence and operating for a minimum period of tim
e, not to exceed five years; 
and subject to certain deposit 
market-share limitations. After a bank has established branches in a state through an interstate merger transaction, the bank 
may establish and acquire additional branches at any location in the state where a bank headquartered in that state could have 
established or acquired branches under applicable federal 
or state law. These regulatory considerations are applicable to 
privately negotiated acquisition transactions. 
 
Other Safety and Soundness Regulations  
 
The FRB has enforcement powers 
over BHCs and their nonbanking subsidiaries
. The FRB has authorit
y to prohibit activities 
that represent unsafe or unsound practices 
or constitute violations of law, rule, re
gulation, administrative order or written 
agreement with a federal regulator. These powers may be exercised through the issuance of cease and desist orders, civil 
money penalties or other actions. 
 
There also are a number of obligations and restrictions imposed
 on BHCs and their deposito
ry institution subsidiaries by 
federal law and regulatory policy that are designed to reduce po
tential loss exposure to the de
positors of such depository 
institutions and to the FDIC insu
rance fund in the event the de
pository institution is insolvent 
or is in danger 
of becoming 
insolvent. For example, under requirements of the FRB with respect to BHC operations, a BHC is required to serve as a 
source of financial strength to its subsidiary depository institu
tions and to commit financial 
resources to support such 
institutions in circumstances where it might not do so otherwise. In addition, the ﬁcross-guaranteeﬂ provisions of federal law 
require insured depository institutions un
der common control to reimburse the FD
IC for any loss suffered or reasonably 
anticipated by the DIF as a re
sult of the insolvency of co
mmonly controlled insured depo
sitory institutions or for any 
assistance provided by the FD
IC to commonly controlled insure
d depository institutions in da
nger of failure. The FDIC may 
decline to enforce the cross-guarantee provision if it determines that 
a waiver is in the best interests of the DIF. The FDIC™s
 
claim for reimbursement under the cross-guarantee provisions is supe
rior to claims of shareholders
 of the insured depository 
institution or its holding compan
y but is subordinate to claims of
 depositors, secured creditors and nonaffiliated holders of 
subordinated debt of the commonly cont
rolled insured depo
sitory institution. 
 
Federal and state banking regulators also have broad enforcem
ent powers over Branch Bank, including the power to impose 
fines and other civil and criminal penalties, and to appoint a receiver in order to conserve the assets of any such institution
 for 
the benefit of depositors and other creditors. The North 
Carolina Commissioner of Banks als
o has the authority to take 
possession of a North Carolina state bank in
 certain circumstances, including, among other things, when it appears that such 
bank has violated its charter or 
any applicable laws, is 
conducting its business in 
an unauthorized or unsafe manner, is in an 
unsafe or unsound condition to transact its busi
ness or has an impairment of its capital stock. 
 
  
14 
 
Payment of Dividends; Capital Requirements  
 
The Parent Company is a legal entity separate and distinct from 
Branch Bank and its subsidiaries. The majority of the Parent 
Company™s revenue is from dividends paid by Branch Bank. Bran
ch Bank is subject to laws and regulations that limit the 
amount of dividends it can pay. In addition, BB&T and Branch Bank are subject to various regulatory restrictions relating to 
the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintai
n capital at or above regulatory minimums, and to remain ﬁwell-
capitalizedﬂ under the prompt corrective action regulations summarized 
elsewhere in this section. Federal banking regulators 
have indicated that banking organizations
 should generally pay dividends only if (1) the organization™s net income available 
to common shareholders over the past year has been sufficient 
to fully fund the dividends an
d (2) the prospective rate of 
earnings retention appears consistent w
ith the organization™s capital needs, ass
et quality and overall financial condition. 
BB&T™s 2014 capital actions will depend on the FRB™s review
 of BB&T™s 2014 capital plan
, which was submitted in 
January 2014. 
 
North Carolina law states that, provide
d a bank does not make distributions
 that reduce its capital below its applicable 
required capital, the board of directors of a bank chartered un
der the laws of North Carolina may declare such distributions as
 
the directors deem proper. 
 
Capital Requirements
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Information related to certain capital ratios 
is shown in the following table: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2
Capital Adequacy Ratios 
December 31, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulatory 
Minimum
Regulatory 
Minimum to 
be Well-
Capitalized 
 
BB&T 
 
Branch Bank
 
 
Risk-based capital ratios: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tier 1 capital 
 
 4.0 
%
 
 6.0 
% 
 
 
 11.8 
% 
 
 
 11.9 
%
 
 
 
Total risk-based capital 
 
 8.0 
 
 
 10.0 
 
 
 
 14.3 
 
 
 
 13.4 
 
 
 
 
Tier 1 common capital  
 
N/A
 
 
N/A
 
 
 
 9.9 
 
 
 
 9.7 
 
 
 
Tier 1 leverage capital ratio 
 
 3.0 
 
 
 5.0 
 
 
 
 9.3 
 
 
 
 9.4 
 
 
 
The federal banking agencies, including the FRB and the FDIC, are required to take ﬁprompt corrective actionﬂ in respect of 
depository institutions and their BHCs that do not meet minimum capital requirements. The law establishes five capital 
categories for insured depository institutions for 
this purpose: ﬁwell-capitalized
,ﬂ ﬁadequately capitalized,ﬂ 
ﬁundercapitalized,ﬂ ﬁsignificantly undercapitalizedﬂ and ﬁcritically undercapitalized.ﬂ To be considered ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ 
under these standards, an ins
titution must maintain the ratios 
shown above and must not be subject to any order or written 
directive to meet and maintain a specif
ic capital level for an
y capital measure. 
 
Federal law also requires the bank re
gulatory agencies to implement systems for 
ﬁprompt corrective actionﬂ for institutions 
that fail to meet minimum capital requirements within the five ca
pital categories, with progressively more severe restrictions 
on operations, management and capital distributions according to the category in which an institution is placed. Additionally, 
failure to meet capital requirements may cause
 an institution to be directed to rais
e additional capital. Federal law further 
mandates that the agencies adopt safety and soundness standa
rds generally relating to oper
ations and management, asset 
quality and executive compensation, and authorizes administr
ative action against an instituti
on that fails to meet such 
standards. 
 
In addition to the ﬁpromp
t corrective actionﬂ directives, failure to meet cap
ital guidelines may subjec
t a banking organization
 
to a variety of other enforcement remedies, including add
itional substantial restrictions on its operations and activities, 
termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC and, under certain conditions, the appointment of a conservator or receiver. 
 
  
15 
 
U.S. Implementation of Basel III 
 
In July 2013, the FRB published final 
rules establishing a new comprehensive capital framework for U.S. banking 
organizations. These rules implement the BCBS's December 2010 framework, known as ﬁBasel III,ﬂ for strengthening 
international capital standards as well as cer
tain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. 
The rules substantially revise the risk-
based capital requirements applicable to BHCs and depository 
institutions, including BB&T an
d Branch Bank, compared to 
the current U.S. risk-based capital rules. The rules define th
e components of capital and address other issues affecting the 
numerator in banking institutions' regulatory
 capital ratios. The rules als
o address risk weights and other issues affecting th
e 
denominator in banking institutions' regulatory capital ratios and replace the existing risk-weighting approach, which was 
derived from Basel I capital accords of the BCBS, with a more risk-sensitive approach based, in part, on the standardized 
approach in the BCBS's 2004 ﬁBasel IIﬂ capital accords. The Basel III rules also implement the requirements of Section 939A 
of the Dodd-Frank Act to remove references to credit ratings from the federal banking agencies' rules. At December 31, 2013, 
BB&T would be considered a standardized approach banking 
organization and must comply 
with the new requirements 
beginning on January 1, 2015. Institutions w
ith greater than $250 billion in assets or
 $10 billion in foreign assets would be 
considered an advanced approach banking organization, whic
h requires a more conservative calculation of risk-weighted 
assets, with a compliance date of January 1, 2014.  
 
The Basel III rules, among other things, (1
) introduce a new capital measure referred to as common equity Tier 1; (2) specify 
that Tier 1 capital consist of Tier 
1 common equity and additional Tier 1 capital 
instruments meeting specified requirements; 
(3) define Tier 1 common equity narrowly by requiring that mo
st deductions/adjustments to re
gulatory capital measures be 
made to Tier 1 common equity and not to the other co
mponents of capital; and (4) expand the scope of the 
deductions/adjustments from capital as 
compared to existing regulations. 
 
The Basel III rules prescribe a standardized approach for risk weightings that expand the risk-weighting categories from the 
current four Basel I-derived categories (0%, 20%, 50% and 100%) 
to a much larger and more risk-sensitive number of 
categories, depending on the nature of the assets, generally rang
ing from 0% for U.S. government
 and agency securities, to 
600% for certain equity exposure
s, resulting in higher risk weights for a variety
 of asset categories. More conservative risk-
weighting of certain residential mortgage lo
ans and the requirement to 
recognize in capital the va
lue of unrecognized gains 
and losses in AFS securities were not retained
. In addition, the rules provide more adva
ntageous risk weights for derivatives 
and repurchase-style transactions cleared through a qualifying ce
ntral counterparty and increase the scope of eligible 
guarantors and eligible co
llateral for purposes of cred
it risk mitigation. 
 
The Basel III rules revise the ﬁprompt corrective actionﬂ directiv
es by establishing certain r
atio levels for well-capitalized 
status. In addition to the minimum risk
-based capital requirements
, all banks must hold a
dditional capital, the capital 
conservation buffer, to avoid being subject to limits on capita
l distributions, such as divi
dend payments, discretionary 
payments on Tier 1 instruments, share buybacks, and certain 
discretionary bonus payments 
to executive officers, including 
heads of major business lines and similar employees. The required amount of the capital conservation buffer will be phased-
in annually through
 January 1, 2019. 
 
In November 2013, the FDIC, FRB and OC
C released a joint statement provid
ing a notice of proposed rulemaking 
concerning the U.S. implementation of th
e liquidity coverage ratio rule. BB&T is
 currently evaluating the impact and has 
developed a program to ensure compliance with the applicable requirements. BB&T is implementing balance sheet changes 
to support its compliance with th
e rule. These actions include chan
ging the mix of its investment
 portfolio to include more 
GNMA and U.S. Treasury securities, which qualify as Level 1 under 
the rule, and changing its de
posit mix to reduce public 
funds deposits and increase retail and commercial deposits. 
 
The following table summarizes 
the capital requirements and BB&T™s internal targets under Basel III: 
 
Table 3
Capital Under Basel III 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Minimum 
Well- 
Minimum Capital Plus Capital Conservation Buffer 
BB&T 
 
 
 
 
 
Capital 
Capitalized
2016  
2017  
2018  
 
2019 (1) 
Target 
Common equity Tier 1 to risk-weighted assets
 
 
 4.5
%
 6.5 
%
 5.125 
%
 5.750 
%
 6.375 
% 
 
 7.000 
%
 8.5
%
Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets 
 
 6.0
 
 8.0 
 
 6.625 
 
 7.250 
 
 7.875 
 
 
 8.500 
 
 10.0
 
Total capital to risk-weighted assets 
 
 8.0
 
 10.0 
 
 8.625 
 
 9.250 
 
 9.875 
 
 
 10.500 
 
 12.0
 
Leverage ratio 
 
 4.0
 
 5.0 
 
N/A
N/A
N/A
N/A
 
 7.0
 
(1) 
Represents BB&T's goal upon
 the effective date of Bas
el III on January 1, 2015. 
 
  
16 
 
Volcker Rule 
 
In December 2010, five federal agencies issued final rules developed jointly to implement section 619 of the Dodd-Frank Act 
(the "Volcker rule"). The final rules pr
ohibit insured depository institutions an
d affiliated companies ("banking entities") 
from engaging in short-term proprietary 
trading of certain securities, derivatives, 
and commodity futures, and options on 
these instruments, for their own account.
 The final rules also impose limits on ba
nking entities' investments in, and other 
relationships with, hedg
e funds or private equity funds. 
Like the Dodd-Frank Act, the fin
al rules provide 
exemptions for 
certain activities, including market making, un
derwriting, hedging, trading in gov
ernment obligations, insurance company 
activities, and organizing and offeri
ng hedge funds or private 
equity funds. The final rules also clarify that certain activiti
es 
are not prohibited, including acting as agent, broker, or custodian.  
 
The compliance requirements under the final rules vary based 
on the size of the banking entity and the scope of activities 
conducted. Banking entities with significant tr
ading operations will be required to es
tablish a detailed compliance program, 
and their Chief Executive Off
icers will be required to attest that the program is 
reasonably designed 
to achieve compliance 
with the final rules. Independent testing 
and analysis of an institution's compliance 
program also will be required. The final 
rules reduce the burden on smaller, less-
complex institutions by limiting their 
compliance and reporting requirements. 
Additionally, a banking entity that does no
t engage in covered trading activities 
will not need to establish a compliance 
program. The FRB announced th
at banking organizati
ons covered by Dodd-Fra
nk Act section 619 will be required to fully 
conform their activities and investments by
 July 21, 2015. These requirements are not
 expected to have a material impact on 
BB&T™s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.  
 
Deposit Insurance Assessments  
 
Branch Bank™s deposits are insured by th
e DIF of the FDIC up to the limits set 
forth under applicable law. The FDIC imposes 
a risk-based deposit premium assessment system, which was ame
nded pursuant to the Reform Act and further amended by 
the Dodd-Frank Act. Under this system, as amended, the assessme
nt rates for an insured depos
itory institution are determined 
by an assessment rate calculator, which is ba
sed on a number of elements to measur
e the risk each ins
titution poses to the 
DIF. The new assessment rate is applied to
 total average assets less tangible equity, 
as defined under the Dodd-Frank Act. 
The assessment rate schedule can change from time to time, at 
the discretion of the FDIC, subj
ect to certain limits. The FDIC 
has published guidelines under the Reform Act on the adjust
ment of assessment rates for certain institutions. Under the 
current system, premiums are assessed quarterly. 
 
Consumer Protection Laws and Regulations 
 
In connection with its lending and leasing 
activities, Branch Bank is subject to a num
ber of federal and 
state laws designed to
 
protect borrowers and promote lending to various sectors of
 the economy and population. These laws include the Equal 
Credit Opportunity Act, the Fair Credit Re
porting Act, the Truth in Lending Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the 
Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, and their respective state law counterparts. 
 
CFPB 
 
The Dodd-Frank Act created a new, independent federa
l agency, the CFPB, which was granted broad rulemaking, 
supervisory and enforcement powers under 
various federal consumer fi
nancial protection laws, including the laws referenced 
above, fair lending laws and certain other statutes. The CFPB has examination and primary enforcement authority with 
respect to depository institutions w
ith $10 billion or more in assets, their se
rvice providers and certain non-depository entit
ies 
such as debt collectors and consumer reporting agencies. The 
CFPB has authority to preven
t unfair, deceptive or abusive 
practices in connection with the offering of consumer fi
nancial products. The Dodd-Frank 
Act authorizes the CFPB to 
establish certain minimum standards for th
e origination of residential mortgages including a determination of the borrower™s 
ability to repay. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act allows borrowers to raise certain defenses to foreclosure if they receive any
 
loan other than a ﬁqualified mortgageﬂ as defined by the CF
PB. The Dodd-Frank Act permits states to adopt consumer 
protection laws and standards that are mo
re stringent than those adopted at the federal level and, in certain circumstances, 
permits state attorneys general to enforce compliance with both the state and federal laws and regulations. 
 
  
17 
 
The CFPB has concentrated much of its rulemaking efforts 
on a variety of mortgage-related topics required under the Dodd-
Frank Act, including mortgage origination disclosures, minimum underwriting standards and ability to repay, high-cost 
mortgage lending, and servicing practices. In 
January 2013, the CFPB fi
nalized rules covering lo
an origination and servicing 
requirements along with other 
rules on mortgages. The rules
 related to ability to repay, qu
alified mortgage standards and 
mortgage servicing became effective in January 2014. The escrow and loan originator compensation rules became effective 
in June 2013. A final rule integrating disclo
sure required by the Truth in Lending 
Act and the Real Estate Settlement and 
Procedures Act became effective in November 2013, although implementation of this final rule has been delayed. As a result 
of these rules, BB&T transferred the management of certain 
home equity loans from dir
ect retail lending within the 
Community Banking segment to the Residential Mortgage Banki
ng segment. BB&T continues to analyze the other impacts 
that such rules may have on its business. 
 
Interchange Fees 
 
As required by the Dodd-Frank 
Act, the FRB adopted rules during 2011 establishing standards for assessing whether the 
interchange fees that may be charged with respect to certain 
electronic debit transactions are ﬁreasonable and proportionalﬂ to
 
the costs incurred by issuers for such transactions. Interchange f
ees, or ﬁswipeﬂ fees, are charges that merchants pay to BB&T 
and other card-issuing banks for processing
 electronic payment transactions. Under th
e final rules, the maximum permissible 
interchange fee that an issuer may receive for an electronic debit transaction will be the sum of 21 cents per transaction and 
5 
basis points multiplied by the value of the 
transaction. An additional 1 cent per tran
saction fraud prevention adjustment is 
available to those issuers that comply w
ith certain standards outlined by the FRB. 
 
During July 2013, a U.S. Federal District 
Court judge ruled against th
e debit card interchange fee limits imposed by the FRB, 
resulting in the potential fo
r further reductions to these caps. If upheld, the revised limits are expected to reduce BB&T™s 
annual revenue by approximately $80 millio
n to $110 million. The FRB filed for an 
expedited appeal that was heard before 
the circuit court during January 
2014. It is uncertain when the 
court will issue its opinion; ho
wever, the current regulation h
as 
been stayed during the appeal. 
 
Privacy 
 
Federal law currently contains
 extensive customer privacy protection provisions, including substantial customer privacy 
protections provided under the Financial Services Modernization Act of 1999 (commonly known as the Gramm-Leach-Bliley 
Act). Under these provisions, a financial institution must pr
ovide to its customers, at the inception of the customer 
relationship and annually thereafter, the in
stitution™s policies and procedures regardin
g the handling of customers™ nonpublic 
personal financial information. These provisions also provide th
at, except for certain limited 
exceptions, an institution may 
not provide such personal inform
ation to unaffiliated third parties unless the ins
titution discloses to the customer that such 
information may be so provided and the customer is given the 
opportunity to opt out of such 
disclosure. Federal law makes it 
a criminal offense, except in limited circum
stances, to obtain or attempt to obtain cu
stomer information of a financial nature 
by fraudulent or deceptive means. 
 
CRA 
 
The CRA requires Branch Bank™s primary federal bank regulatory 
agency, the FDIC, to assess the bank™s record in meeting 
the credit needs of the communities
 served by the bank, including low- an
d moderate-income neighborhoods and persons. 
Institutions are assigned one of four ratings: ﬁOutsta
nding,ﬂ ﬁSatisfactory,ﬂ ﬁNeeds to Improveﬂ or ﬁSubstantial 
Noncompliance.ﬂ This assessment is reviewed for any bank that
 applies to merge or consolid
ate with or acquire the assets or 
assume the liabilities of an insured depo
sitory institution, or to open or relocate 
a branch office. The CRA record of each 
subsidiary bank of a financial holding 
company, such as BB&T, also is assesse
d by the FRB in connection with any 
acquisition or merger application. 
 
  
18 
 
Automated Overdraft Payment Regulation  
 
The FRB and FDIC have enacted consumer protection regulations
 related to automated overdraft payment programs offered 
by financial institutions. Regulation E prohibits financial institutions
 from charging consumers fees
 for paying overdrafts on 
automated teller machine and one-time debit 
card transactions, unless a consumer consen
ts, or opts in, to 
the overdraft service
 
for those types of transactions. Financial 
institutions must also provide consumers 
with a notice that explains the financial 
institution™s overdraft services, 
including the fees associated with the service an
d the consumer™s choi
ces. In addition, FDIC-
supervised institutions must monitor 
overdraft payment programs for ﬁexcessive or chronicﬂ customer use and undertake 
ﬁmeaningful and effectiveﬂ
 follow-up action with customers that overdraw th
eir accounts more than six times during a rolling 
12-month period. Financial institutions must also impose daily 
limits on overdraft charges, re
view and modify check-clearing 
procedures, prominently distinguish account balances from 
available overdraft coverage 
amounts and ensure board and 
management oversight regarding overdraft payment programs. 
 
Patriot Act  
 
The Patriot Act contains anti-money laund
ering measures affecting insured depos
itory institutions, broker-dealers and certain 
other financial institutions. The Patriot Act includes the IMLA
FA, which requires such financ
ial institutions to implement 
policies and procedures to combat money laundering and the 
financing of terrorism and grants the Secretary of the U.S. 
Treasury broad authority to establish re
gulations and to impose requirements an
d restrictions on financial institutions™ 
operations. In addition, the Patriot Act requires the federa
l bank regulatory agencies to c
onsider the effectiveness of a 
financial institution™s anti-money launderi
ng activities when reviewing bank merger
s and BHC acquisitions. The U.S. 
Treasury has issued a number of regulations to implement the 
Patriot Act, which impose oblig
ations on financial institutions 
to maintain appropriate policies, pr
ocedures and controls to de
tect, prevent 
and report money laundering and terrorist 
financing. The obligations of financial institutions under the Patriot Act have increased and may continue to increase. The 
increase in obligations of financial institutio
ns has resulted in increased costs for BB
&T, which may continue to rise, and als
o 
may subject BB&T to additional liability. 
 
Other Regulatory Matters  
 
BB&T is subject to numerous examinations by federal and 
state banking regulators, as well as the SEC, the FINRA, the 
NYSE, various taxing authorities and various state insurance and securities regulators. BB&T has periodically received 
requests for information from regulatory au
thorities in various states, including 
state insurance commissions and state 
attorneys general, securities regulators and other regulatory au
thorities, concerning their business and accounting practices. 
Such requests are considered incidental to the normal conduct of business. 
 
Employees 
 
At December 31, 2013, BB&T had approximately 33,700 full-time equivalent employees compared to approximately 34,000 
full-time equivalent employees at December 31, 2012. 
 
Website Access to BB&T™s Filings with the SEC
 
 
All of BB&T™s electronic filings with the SE
C, including the Annual Report on Form 
10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-
Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amend
ments to these reports filed
 or furnished pursuant to 
Sections 13(a) or 15(d) of 
the Exchange Act, as amended, are made available at no cost 
in the Investor Relations section of the Company™s website, 
www.bbt.com/about, as soon as reasonably practicable after 
BB&T files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. 
BB&T™s SEC filings are also available th
rough the SEC™s we
bsite at www.sec.gov. 
 
  
  
19 
 
Corporate Governance  
 
Information with respect to BB&T™s Board of Directors, Executiv
e Officers and corporate governance policies and principles 
is presented on BB&T™s website, www.bbt.com/about, and includes:  
 

 
Corporate Governance Guidelines  
 

 
Corporate Board of Directors  
 

 
Committees of the Corporate Board of Directors and Committee Charters  
 

 
Codes of Ethics for Directors, Senior
 Financial Officers and Associates  
 

 
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer Certifications  
 

 
Executive Officers  
 

 
Policy and Procedures for Accounting,
 Securities and Legal Complaints, in
cluding Whistleblower Procedures 
 

 
Statement of Political Activity 
 
BB&T intends to disclose any substantive 
amendments or waivers to the Codes of Et
hics for Directors or Senior Financial 
Officers on BB&T™s website at www.bbt.com/about. 
  
  
20 
 
Executive Officers of BB&T  
 
Executive Officer
 
 
Recent Work Experience
 
Years of Service
 
Age
Kelly S. King
 
 
Chairman since January 2010. Chief Executive 
Officer since January 2009. Chief Operating 
Officer between June 2004 and December 2008. 
   
41  
  
65  
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Christopher L. Henson 
 
Chief Operating Officer since January 2009. Chief 
Financial Officer between July 2005 and 
December 2008. 
   
29  
  
52  
Chief Operating Officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Daryl N. Bible 
 
Chief Financial Officer since January 2009. 
Assistant Chief Financial Officer between January 
2008 and December 2008. 
   
6  
  
52  
Senior Executive Vice President and
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chief Financial Officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ricky K. Brown 
 
President, Community Banking since July 2004. 
   
36  
  
58  
Senior Executive Vice President and
 
 
 
 
 
 
P
resident, Community Bankin
g
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Barbara F. Duck 
 
Enterprise Risk Manager since July 2009. 
Electronic Delivery Channels Manager between 
July 2006 and June 2009. 
   
26  
  
47  
Senior Executive Vice President and
 
 
 
 
 
 
E
nterprise Risk Manage
r
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Donna C. Goodrich 
 
Deposit Services Manage
r since April 2004. 
   
28  
  
51  
Senior Executive Vice President and
 
 
 
 
 
 
D
eposit Services Manage
r
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Robert E. Greene (1) 
 
Administrative Group Manager since August 
2001. Risk Management Group Manager between 
July 2006 and June 2009. 
   
41  
  
64  
Senior Executive Vice President and
 
 
 
 
 
 
A
dministrative Group Manage
r
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Robert J. Johnson, Jr.  
 
General Counsel, Secretary and Chief Corporate 
Governance Officer since September 2010. Deputy 
General Counsel from January 2008 to August 
2010. 
   
9  
  
41 
Senior Executive Vice President and 
General Counsel, Secretary and Chief 
Corporate Governance Officer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Clarke R. Starnes III 
 
Chief Risk Officer since July 2009. Chief Credit 
Officer between September 2008 and June 2009. 
Specialized Lending Manager between January 
2000 and August 2008. 
   
31  
  
54  
Senior Executive Vice President and
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chief Risk Officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Steven B. Wiggs 
 
Chief Marketing Officer
 since February 2005. 
Lending Group Manager since July 2009. 
   
34  
  
56  
Senior Executive Vice President and
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chief Marketing Officer and Lending
 
 
 
 
 
 
Group Manager 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cynthia A. Williams 
 
Chief Corporate Communications Officer since 
June 2009. Corporate Financial Controls Manager 
from May 2004 through June 2009 
 
28  
 
61  
Senior Executive Vice President and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Chief Corporate Communications Officer
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
W. Rufus Yates 
 
President and CEO of BB&T Securities since 
January 2013. Pr
esident and CEO of Scott & 
Stringfellow, LLC sin
ce 2009. Capital Markets 
Manager since 2006. 
   
27  
  
56  
Senior Executive Vice President and
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capital Markets Manager
 
 
 
 
 
 
__________ 
(1)  Mr. Greene is expected to retire on March 31, 2014.  
  
  
21 
 
ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 
 
The following discussion sets
 forth some of the more im
portant risk factors that could materially affect BB&T™s financial 
condition and operations. When a risk factor
 spans several risk categories, the below 
risks have been listed by their primary 
risk category. Other factors that could affect 
the Company™s financial condition and ope
rations are discussed in the ﬁForward-
Looking Statementsﬂ section above. However, there may be additional risks that are not presently material or known, and 
factors besides those discussed below, or el
sewhere in this or other reports that BB&
T filed or furnished with the SEC, that 
also could adversely affect the Company. 
 
Compliance Risk 
 
Changes in banking laws could have
 a material adverse effect on BB&T. 
 
BB&T is extensively regulated under federal and state banki
ng laws and regulations that are intended primarily for the 
protection of depositors, federal de
posit insurance funds and the ba
nking system as a whole. In 
addition, BB&T is subject to 
changes in federal and state laws as well as changes in ba
nking and credit regulations, and governmental economic and 
monetary policies. Any of these changes could adversely and ma
terially affect BB&T. The cu
rrent regulatory environment 
for financial institutions entails significan
t potential increases in compliance require
ments and associated costs, including 
those related to consumer credit, with a focus on mortgage 
lending. For example, the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act in 
2010 represented a sign
ificant overhaul of many aspects of the regu
lation of the financial services industry, and the 
implementation of and rulemaking under the Dodd-Frank Act during 2013 and in the future could result in materially higher 
compliance costs and otherwise adversely affect BB&T™s bu
siness, financial condition or results of operations. See 
ﬁRegulatory Considerationsﬂ and the immediately following risk 
factors for additional information regarding the Dodd-Frank 
Act and its potential impact upon
 BB&T and its subsidiaries. 
 
Federal and state banking regulators also possess broad powers to
 take supervisory actions as they deem appropriate. These 
supervisory actions may result in higher
 capital requirements, higher insurance premiums and limitations on BB&T™s 
activities that could have a material adverse e
ffect on its business and profitability. 
 
The ongoing implementation of the Dodd
-Frank Act, and its rela
ted rulemaking activities, may re
sult in lower revenues, 
higher costs and ratings downgrades. In addition, failure to meet the FRB™s capital planning and adequacy requirements 
under the Dodd-Frank Act, may limit the ab
ility to pay dividends, enter into acqu
isitions and repurcha
se common stock. 
 
The Dodd-Frank Act, signed
 into law in July 2010
, represents a significant overhaul of ma
ny aspects of the regulation of the 
financial services industry, addressing, among other things, sy
stemic risk, capital adequacy, deposit insurance assessments, 
consumer financial protection, interchange fees, derivatives, le
nding limits, and changes among the bank regulatory agencies. 
BB&T, under Dodd-Frank, is deemed to be a ﬁsystemically impor
tantﬂ institution. D
uring 2013, federal agencies continued 
implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act. Many of these provis
ions remain subject to further rulemaking, guidance, and 
interpretation by the applicable fede
ral regulators, such as the Council, which 
will regulate the systemic risk of the financia
l 
system. Due to BB&T™s size, it is subject to additional regulati
ons such as the ﬁliving willﬂ requirements relating to the rapi
d 
and orderly resolution of systemically impor
tant financial institutions in the event 
of material financial distress or failure.
 
BB&T cannot predict the additional effects
 that compliance with th
e Dodd-Frank Act or any re
gulations will have on 
BB&T™s businesses or its ability to pursue future busine
ss opportunities. Additional regu
lations resulting 
from the Dodd-
Frank Act may materially adversely affect BB&T™s business, 
financial condition or results of operations. See ﬁRegulatory 
Considerationsﬂ for additional information regardin
g the Dodd-Frank Act and its impact upon BB&T. 
 
In addition, BB&T has been subject to assessm
ent by the FRB as part of the CCAR pr
ogram. CCAR is an annual exercise by 
the FRB to ensure that institutions have forward-looking capital planning processes that account for their risks and sufficient
 
capital to continue operations
 throughout times of econo
mic and financial stress. BB&T cannot be certain that the FRB will 
have no objections to BB&T™s future capital plans submit
ted through the CCAR program. F
ailure by BB&T to pass the 
CCAR review could adversely affect our abi
lity to pay dividends, enter into acqui
sitions and repurchase our common stock.
 
 
  
22 
 
BB&T may be subject to more stringent ca
pital requirements, which could diminish
 its ability to pay dividends or require 
BB&T to reduce its operations. 
 
The Dodd-Frank Act requires federal banking agencies to es
tablish more stringent risk-b
ased capital requirements and 
leverage limits applicable to banks and BHCs
. On July 2, 2013, th
e FRB approved final rules that established a new 
comprehensive capital framework for U.S. ba
nking organizations. These 
rules established a more conservative definition of 
capital, including the elimination of trust-preferred securities 
for certain institutions. Once 
adopted and fully phased in, 
banking organizations such as BB&T would be required to 
meet enhanced minimum capital and leverage ratios. These 
requirements, and any other new regulations, including those that
 have been proposed but not 
yet implemented as a result of 
the requirements established by the BCBS, could adversely af
fect BB&T™s ability to pay dividends, or could require BB&T 
to reduce business levels or to raise cap
ital, which may adversely affect its resu
lts of operations or financial condition. In 
addition, the costs associated with complyi
ng with more stringent capital requirements,
 such as the requirement to formulate 
and submit capital plans based on pre-defined stress scenarios on 
an annual basis, could have a material adverse effect on 
BB&T. See ﬁRegulatory Considerationsﬂ for additional informati
on regarding the capital requirements under the Dodd-Frank 
Act and Basel III. 
 
Rulemaking changes implemented by the CFPB will result in higher regulatory and compliance costs related to originating 
and servicing mortgages and may advers
ely affect our results of operations. 
 
The CFPB has finalized a number of signif
icant rules which will impact 
nearly every aspect of the lifecycle of a residential 
mortgage. These rules implement the Dodd-Frank Act amendm
ents to the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Truth in 
Lending Act and the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act. The fi
nal rules require banks to, among other things: (i) develop 
and implement procedures to en
sure compliance with a new "reasonable ability 
to repay" test and id
entify whether a loan 
meets a new definition for a "qualified mortgage;" (ii) impl
ement new or revised disclosures, policies and procedures for 
servicing mortgages including, but not limite
d to, early intervention with delinquent 
borrowers and specific loss mitigation 
procedures for loans secured by a borrower's pri
ncipal residence; (iii) comply with additional restrictions on mortgage loan 
originator compensation; and (iv)
 comply with new disclosure requirements and 
standards for appraisals and escrow accounts 
maintained for "higher priced mortga
ge loans." These new rules cr
eate operational and strategic 
challenges for BB&T, as it is 
both a mortgage originator and a servicer. For example, busin
ess models for cost, pricing, delivery, compensation, and risk 
management will need to be re-evaluated and potentially re
vised, perhaps substantially. Additionally, programming changes 
and enhancements to systems will be necessary to comply with the new rules. Some of these new rules became effective in 
June 2013, while others became 
effective in January 2014. Forthcoming a
dditional rulemaking affecting the residential 
mortgage business is also expected. Achieving full compliance 
in the relatively short timeframe provided for certain of the 
new rules will result in increased
 regulatory and compliance costs. 
 
Differences in interpretation of tax 
laws and regulations may adversely 
impact BB&T™s financial statements. 
 
Local, state or federal tax authorities may interpret tax law
s and regulations differently than BB&T and challenge tax 
positions that BB&T has taken on its tax returns. This may resu
lt in differences in the treat
ment of revenues, deductions, 
credits and/or differences in the timing of these items. The di
fferences in treatment may result in payment of additional taxes
, 
interest or penalties that could have a material adverse effect 
on BB&T™s results. For example, as discussed in Note 12 
ﬁIncome Taxesﬂ in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements,ﬂ in February 2010, BB&T received an IRS statutory 
notice of deficiency for tax y
ears 2002-2007 asserting a liab
ility for taxes, penalties and interest of approximately $892 
million related to the disallowance of foreig
n tax credits and other deduc
tions claimed by a subsidiary in connection with a 
financing transaction. BB&T paid the disp
uted tax, penalties and interest in March 
2010 and filed a la
wsuit seeking a refund 
in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. On September 20, 2013,
 the court denied the refund claim. As a result of developments 
in this and other matters, BB&T recogn
ized $516 million in tax charges in 
2013. Potential develo
pments in BB&T™s 
litigation or in similar cases could adversely affect
 BB&T™s financial position or results of operations. 
 
  
23 
 
Credit Risk 
 
Changes in national, regional and local 
economic conditions and deterioration in 
the geographic and fi
nancial markets in 
which BB&T operates could lead to higher loan ch
arge-offs and reduce BB&T™s net income and growth. 
 
BB&T™s business is subject to periodic fluctuations based on
 national, regional and local economic conditions. These 
fluctuations are not predictable, cannot be controlled, and 
may have a material adverse impact on BB&T™s operations and 
financial condition even if other favora
ble events occur. BB&T™s banking operatio
ns are locally oriented and community-
based. Accordingly, BB&T e
xpects to continue to be depe
ndent upon local business conditions
 as well as conditions in the 
local residential and CRE markets it serves. For example, an increase in unemployment, a decrease in real estate values or 
increases in interest rates, as well as other factors, could 
weaken the economies of the co
mmunities BB&T serves. Weakness 
in BB&T™s market area could depress its earnings and consequently its financial condition because: 
 

 
customers may not want or need BB&T™s products or services;  
 

 
borrowers may not be able or willi
ng to repay their loans;  
 

 
the value of the collateral securing 
loans to borrowers may decline; and  
 

 
the quality of BB&T™s loan
 portfolio may decline. 
 
Any of the latter three scenarios could requ
ire BB&T to charge off a higher percentage of loans and/or increase provisions for 
credit losses, which would reduce BB&T™s 
net income. Credit deterioration, combin
ed with flat to declining real estate 
values, would result in increased loan charge-offs and high
er provisions for credit losses, which may negatively impact 
BB&T™s net income. 
 
Although the United States economy has shown modest improveme
nt recently, economic conditions 
continue to pose a risk 
to financial services firms such as BB&T. There continues to be concern regarding the possibility of a return to recessionary 
conditions, as well as increased
 turmoil or volatility in the financial system. BB&T is part of the financial system and a 
systemic lack of available credit, a lack of
 confidence in the financial sector, con
tinued volatility in the financial markets 
and/or reduced business activity could materially adversel
y affect BB&T™s business, financial condition and results of 
operations. 
 
Further downgrades of U.S. government s
ecurities by one or more of the cred
it ratings agencies could have a material 
adverse effect on BB&T™s operations, 
earnings and financial condition. 
 
During 2011, the S&P cr
edit rating agency lowered its 
long term sovereign credit rati
ng on the U.S. from AAA to AA+, 
which reflected S&P™s view that an August 
2011 agreement of U.S. lawmakers regard
ing the debt ceiling fell short of what 
would be necessary to stabilize the U.S.
 government™s medium term debt dynamics. The three other major credit rating 
agencies did not downgrade their previously issued U.S. sovere
ign credit ratings, though some 
have issued negative outlooks 
at various times over the last three years. The current uncertain
ty over U.S. fiscal policy c
ould lead to future or further 
downgrades of the U.S. sovereign credit rating by one or 
more of the major credit rating agencies. A possible future 
downgrade of the federal government™s credit rating by one 
or more of the other major ratings agencies could create 
uncertainty in the U.S. and global financial markets and cause ot
her events which, directly or indirectly, may adversely affect
 
BB&T™s operations, earnings and financial co
ndition. For example, BB&T™s securities 
portfolio consists largely of MBS 
issued by GSEs, such as FHLMC and FNMA. Among other th
ings, a further downgrade in the U.S. government™s credit 
rating could adversely impact the value of these securities an
d may trigger requirements th
at the Company post additional 
collateral for trades relative to these securities. 
 
The soundness of other financial in
stitutions could adversely affect BB&T. 
 
Financial services institutions are interrelated as a result of
 trading, clearing, counterparty, or other relationships. BB&T h
as 
exposure to many different industries and counterparties, 
and BB&T and certain of its subsidiaries routinely execute 
transactions with counterparties in the financial services
 industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks, 
investment banks, mutual and hedge fund
s, and other institutional clients. Many of 
these transactions expose BB&T to credit 
risk in the event of default of its counterparty or client. In addition, BB&T™s credit risk may be exacerbated when collateral 
is 
liquidated at prices not sufficient to rec
over the full amount of the loan or derivativ
e exposure. These types of losses could 
materially and adversely affect BB&T™s resu
lts of operations or financial condition. 
 
  
24 
 
Although the Colonial loan por
tfolios are largely covered 
by shared-loss agreements, BB&T 
is not immune from losses or 
risks relative to these portfolios. 
 
Branch Bank acquired significant loan port
folios in connection with its acquisition of
 Colonial and entered into loss sharing 
agreements with the FDIC, which
 provide that a significant portion of losses r
elated to the covered loan portfolios will be 
borne by the FDIC. Fluctuations in economic conditions, incl
uding those related to local residential real estate, CRE and 
construction markets, may increase the level
 of charge-offs on the acquired loan portfolio and correspondingly reduce 
BB&T™s net income. These fluctuations are not predictable, canno
t be controlled and may have a material adverse impact on 
BB&T™s operations and financial condition even if other favora
ble events occur. Additionally, 
the loss sharing agreements 
have limited terms with the commercial lo
ss sharing ending in 2014 and the singl
e family loss sharing ending in 2019. 
Therefore, any charge-off of rela
ted losses that Branch Bank experiences after th
e term of the loss sharing agreements will 
not be reimbursed by the FDIC and will negatively impact BB&T™s net income. 
 
Liquidity Risk 
 
BB&T™s liquidity could be impaired by an inability to access the capital markets, an unforeseen outflow of cash or a 
reduction in the credit ratings fo
r BB&T or its subsidiaries. 
 
Liquidity is essential to BB&T™s businesse
s. Capital and credit markets continue to
 demonstrate volatility and disruption, and 
if such volatility and disruption continues, worsens or abates and then arises at a later date, BB&T™s ability to access capita
l 
could be materially impaired. Additionally
, other factors outside of BB&T™s control, 
such as a general market disruption or 
an operational problem that affects third parties, could impair BB&T™s ability to access capital markets or create an 
unforeseen outflow of cash or deposits. BB&T™s inability to access the capital markets could constrain its ability to make new 
loans, to meet its existing lending 
commitments and ultimately jeopardize 
its overall liquidity and capitalization. 
 
BB&T™s credit ratings are also important to its liquidity. Rating agencies regularly evaluate BB&T and its subsidiaries, and 
their ratings are based on a number of factors, including the fi
nancial strength of BB&T and its subsidiaries, as well as facto
rs 
not entirely within BB&T™s control, inclu
ding conditions affecting the financial se
rvices industry generally. As a result, ther
e 
can be no assurance that BB&T will main
tain its current ratings. A reduction in BB
&T™s credit ratings could adversely affect 
BB&T™s liquidity and competitive position, increase its borrowing costs, limit its access to the capital markets or trigger 
unfavorable contractual obligations. 
 
Market Risk 
 
Turmoil and volatility in global 
financial markets could have a material adverse
 effect on BB&T™s operations, earnings and 
financial condition. 
 
The negative impact on economic conditions
 and global markets from the EU an
d other sovereign debt matters could 
adversely affect BB&T™s business, financial condition and li
quidity. Concerns about the 
EU sovereign debt caused 
uncertainty and disruption for financial markets globally, and co
ntinued uncertainties loom over 
the outcome of the EU™s 
financial support programs and the possibility that other EU 
member states may experience similar financial troubles. 
 
The monetary, tax and other policies of 
governmental agencies, includ
ing the FRB, have a significant impact on market 
interest rates, and our business and 
financial performance is impacted 
significantly by such interest rates. 
 
BB&T™s businesses and earnings are affected
 by the fiscal and other policies adopted 
by various regulatory authorities of the 
U.S., non-U.S. governments and internationa
l agencies. The FRB regulates
 the supply of money and 
credit in the U.S. The 
federal policies determine in large part the cost of funds for le
nding and investing and the retu
rn earned on those loans and 
investments. The market impact from such policies can also materially decrease the value of certain of BB&T™s financial 
assets, most notably debt securities. Changes in the federa
l policies are beyond BB&T™s cont
rol and, consequently, the 
impact of these changes on our activities and resu
lts of our operations is difficult to predict.
 
 
  
25 
 
Changes in interest rates may have an
 adverse effect on BB&T™s profitability. 
 
BB&T™s earnings and financial condition are largely dependent 
on net interest income, which is the difference between 
interest earned from loans and investments and interest paid 
on deposits and borrowings. The narrowing of interest rate 
spreads could adversely affect BB&T™s 
earnings and financial condition. BB&T ca
nnot control or predict with certainty 
changes in interest rates. Regional and local economic co
nditions, competitive pressures 
and the policies of regulatory 
authorities, including monetary policies of the FRB, affect interest
 income and interest expense. As discussed in ﬁMarket 
Risk Management Œ Interest Rate Market Risk (Other than 
Trading),ﬂ BB&T has ongoing policies and procedures designed 
to manage the risks associated w
ith changes in market interest 
rates. However, changes in interest rates still may have an 
adverse effect on BB&T™s profitability. For example, rising in
terest rates could adversely affect BB&T™s mortgage banking 
business because higher interest rates could cause customers to ap
ply for fewer mortgages. Similarly, rising interest rates may
 
increase the cost of BB&T™s deposits, 
which are a primary source
 of funding. While BB&T actively
 manages against these 
risks through hedging and other risk mitigation strategies, if
 BB&T™s assumptions regarding bo
rrower behavior are wrong or 
overall economic conditions are significantly different than anticipated, the Company™s risk mitigation techniques may be 
insufficient. 
 
Loss of deposits could increase the Company™s funding costs. 
 
Deposits are a low cost and stable sourc
e of funding. BB&T competes with banks an
d other financial institutions for deposits. 
Funding costs may increase because the Company may lose deposits and replace them with more expensive sources of 
funding, clients may shift their de
posits into higher cost products or the Company
 may need to raise its interest rates to avoi
d 
losing deposits. Higher funding cost
s reduce the Company™s NIM, net in
terest income and net income.  
 
Operational Risk 
 
BB&T faces security risks, including ﬁd
enial of service attacks,ﬂ ﬁhackingﬂ and 
ﬁidentity theftﬂ that could result in the 
disclosure of confiden
tial information, adversely affect 
BB&T™s business or reputation 
and create significant legal and 
financial exposure. 
 
BB&T™s computer systems and network infrastructure are subject 
to security risks and could be susceptible to cyber-attacks, 
such as denial of service attacks, hackin
g, terrorist activities or identity theft. Fi
nancial services institutions and compani
es 
engaged in data processing have reported breaches in the security of their websites or other systems, some of which have 
involved sophisticated and targeted attacks intended to obtain unauthorized access to confidential information, destroy data, 
disable or degrade service, or sabotage sy
stems, often through the introduction of co
mputer viruses or malware, cyber-attacks 
and other means.
 
Denial of service attacks have been launched against 
a number of large financial services institutions, 
including BB&T. None of these events resulted in a breach 
of BB&T™s client data or account information; however, the 
performance of BB&T™s website, www.bbt.com, was adversely affected, and in some instances customers were prevented 
from accessing BB&T™s website. We expect to be subject to similar attacks in the future. While events to date primarily 
resulted in inconvenience, futur
e cyber-attacks could be more disruptive and dama
ging. Hacking and identity theft risks, in 
particular, could cause serious reputational 
harm. Cyber threats are rapidly evolving 
and BB&T may not be able to anticipate 
or prevent all such attacks. BB&T may incur 
increasing costs in an effort to minimize 
these risks and could be held liable for 
any security breach or loss. 
 
Despite efforts to ensure the integrity of
 its systems, BB&T will not be able to an
ticipate all security breaches of these type
s, 
and BB&T may not be able to implement effective preventive measures against such security breaches. The techniques used 
by cyber criminals change frequently, ma
y not be recognized until launched and can 
originate from a wide variety of sources, 
including outside groups such
 as external service providers, organized crim
e affiliates, terrorist organizations or hostile 
foreign governments. Those parties may al
so attempt to fraudulently induce employ
ees, customers or other users of BB&T™s 
systems to disclose sensitive information in order to gain access to its data or that of its clients. These risks may increase 
in 
the future as the Company continues to 
increase its mobile-payment and other internet-based product offerings and expands 
its internal usage of web-based products and applications. 
 
A successful penetration or circumvention of system security could cause serious negative consequences to BB&T, including 
significant disruption of operations, misa
ppropriation of confidential information of BB&T or that of its customers, or 
damage to computers or systems of the Company or those of its customers and counterparties. A successful security breach 
could result in violations of applicable 
privacy and other laws, financial loss to BB
&T or to its customers, loss of confidence
 
in BB&T™s security measures, significan
t litigation exposure, and harm to BB&T™s 
reputation, all of which could have a 
material adverse effect on the Company. 
 
  
26 
 
BB&T relies on its employees, systems and certain counterparties, and certain failures could materially adversely affect 
operations. 
 
BB&T™s business is dependent on the ab
ility to process, record and monitor a 
large number of complex transactions. The 
Company could be materially adversely affected if one or more of its employees causes a significant operational breakdown 
or failure, either as a result of human error or intentionally. Financial, accounting, or other data processing systems may fai
l 
or have other significant shortcomings th
at materially adversely affect BB&T™s busi
ness. In addition, products, services and 
processes are continually changing and BB
&T may not fully appreciate or identify new operational risks that may arise from 
such changes. Any of these o
ccurrences could diminish the 
ability to operate one or more LO
Bs or result in potential liability 
to clients, increased operating expenses, higher litigation cost
s (including fines and sanctions), reputational damage, 
regulatory intervention or weaker competitive standing
, any of which could be material to the Company. 
 
If personal, confidential or proprietary info
rmation of clients were to be mishandl
ed or misused, significant regulatory 
consequences, reputational damage and financial loss could occu
r. Such mishandling or misuse could include circumstances 
where, for example, such information was er
roneously provided to par
ties who are not pe
rmitted to have 
the information, 
either through the fau
lt of systems, employees, or counterparties, or wher
e such information was in
tercepted or otherwise 
inappropriately taken by third parties. 
 
BB&T may be subject to disruptions of its operating systems 
arising from events that are wh
olly or partially beyond its 
control, which may include, for example, security breache
s; electrical or telecommunications outages; failures of computer 
servers or other damage to property or assets; natural disast
ers; health emergencies or pandemics; or events arising from 
political events, including te
rrorist acts. There can be no assurance that di
saster recovery or other plans will fully mitigate
 all 
potential business continuity risk
s. Any failures or disruptions of systems 
or operations could impact BB&T™s ability to 
service its clients, which could adversely affect BB&T™s re
sults of operations by subj
ecting BB&T to losses, litigation, 
regulatory fines or penalties or by requiring the expenditure of si
gnificant resources to correct 
the failure or disruption.  
 
Significant litigation could have a material adverse effect on BB&T. 
 
BB&T faces legal risks in its business, and the volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation 
and regulatory proceeding
s against financial institutions remains high. Subs
tantial legal liability or
 significant regulatory 
action against BB&T may have material adverse financial effe
cts or cause significant reputational harm to BB&T, which in 
turn could seriously harm BB&T™s business prospects. 
 
BB&T faces significant operational and other risks related to its activities, which could expose it to negative publicity, 
litigation and/or regulatory action. 
 
BB&T is exposed to many types of risks, 
including operational, reputational, legal an
d compliance risk, the risk of fraud or 
theft by employees or outsiders (inclu
ding identity and information theft), una
uthorized transactions by employees or 
operational errors, including clerical or
 record-keeping errors or those resulti
ng from faulty or disabled computer or 
telecommunications systems. Negative public op
inion can result from BB&T™s actual or
 alleged conduct in any number of 
activities, including lending practices, corpor
ate governance and acquisitions, activities related to asset sales and balance 
sheet management and from actions taken by government regul
ators and community organizations in response to those 
activities. Negative public opinion can adversely affect BB&T™s ab
ility to attract and keep customers and can expose it to 
litigation and regulatory action. 
 
Because the nature of the financial services business involves a high volume of transactions, certain errors may be repeated or
 
compounded before they are discovered and successfully rectified. BB&T™s necessary dependence upon automated systems 
to record and process its transaction volume may further increase the risk that technical flaws or employee tampering or 
manipulation of those systems will result in losses that are difficu
lt to detect. BB&T also may be subject to disruptions of it
s 
operating systems arising from events that 
are wholly or partially beyond its cont
rol (for example, computer viruses or 
electrical or telecommunications outages), wh
ich may give rise to disruption of serv
ice to customers and to financial loss or 
liability. BB&T is further exposed to the ri
sk that its external vendors may be unabl
e to fulfill their contractual obligations
 (or 
will be subject to the same risk of fraud or operational errors 
by their respective employees as is BB&T) and to the risk that 
BB&T™s (or its vendors™) business continuity and da
ta security systems prove to be inadequate. 
 
  
27 
 
BB&T relies on other companies to provide certain key components of its business infrastructure. 
 
Third party vendors provide certain key components of BB&T™s busi
ness infrastructure such as internet connections, network 
access and mutual fund distribution. While BB&T has selected these third party vendors carefully, it does not control their 
operations. Any failure by these third par
ties to perform or provide agreed upon g
oods and services for any reason or their 
poor performance of services, could adversely affect BB&T™s ability 
to deliver products and se
rvices to its customers and 
otherwise to conduct its business. Replacing these third pa
rty vendors could also entail significant delay and expense. 
 
BB&T may not be able to succ
essfully integrate ban
k or nonbank merge
rs and acquisitions. 
 
Difficulties may arise in the integration of the business an
d operations of BHCs, banks and other nonbank entities BB&T 
acquires and, as a result, BB&T may not be able to achieve the 
cost savings and synergies th
at it expects will result from such
 
transactions. Achieving cost 
savings is dependent 
on consolidating certain operationa
l and functional areas, eliminating 
duplicative positions and terminating certain ag
reements for outside se
rvices. Additional operationa
l savings are dependent 
upon the integration of the acquired or me
rged entity™s businesses with BB&T or one of BB&T™s subsidiaries, the conversion 
of core operating systems, data system
s and products and the standardization of
 business practices. Complications or 
difficulties in the conversion of core ope
rating systems, data systems and products
 may result in the loss of customers, 
damage to BB&T™s reputation within the financial services 
industry, operational problems, on
e-time costs currently not 
anticipated or reduced cost savi
ngs resulting from such mergers 
or acquisitions. Annual cost sa
vings in each such transaction 
may be materially less than anticipated if
 the holding company, bank merger or 
nonbank merger or acquisition is delayed 
unexpectedly, the integratio
n of operations is delayed beyond what is an
ticipated or the conversion to a single set of data 
systems is not accomplished on a timely basis.  
 
Difficulty in integrating an acquired co
mpany may cause BB&T not to realize expected revenue increases, cost savings, 
increases in geographic or product presence and/or other project
ed benefits from the acquisiti
on. The integration could result 
in higher than expected deposit attrition, loss of key employ
ees, disruption of BB&T™s businesses or the businesses of the 
acquired company, or otherwise adversely affect BB&T™s ability
 to maintain relationships with
 customers and employees or 
achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Also, the 
negative effect of any divestitures required by regulatory 
authorities in acquisitions or business combinations may be gr
eater than expected. In addition,
 BB&T could incur losses on 
acquired assets and increased expenses resulting from th
e failure to successfully integrate an acquired company. 
 
BB&T may not be able to successfully implement a new ERP
 system, which could adversely affect BB&T™s business 
operations and profitability.  
 
BB&T is investing significant resources in an enterprise-wi
de initiative aimed at implementing an integrated ERP financial 
platform, utilizing certain modules of SAP software. The ERP system is expected to be partially operational in 2014, and the 
remaining modules are expected to be fully operational in 20
16. The objective of the new ERP 
system is to modernize and 
consolidate many of the existing systems that are currently used 
for a variety of functions throughout the Company, including 
both internal and external financial reporting. BB&T may not be able to successfully implement and integrate the new ERP 
system, which could adversely impact th
e ability to provide timely 
and accurate financial inform
ation in compliance with 
legal and regulatory requirements
, which could result in sanctions from regulat
ory authorities. Such sanctions could include 
fines and suspension of trading in BB
&T stock, among others. In addition, a number of core business processes including, 
but not limited to, remitting amounts owed to vendors, could be a
ffected. The implementation could extend past the expected 
timing and/or result in operating ine
fficiencies, which could increase the costs associated with the implementation. 
 
Failure to implement part or all of the ERP system coul
d result in impairment charges that adversely impact BB&T™s 
financial condition and results of operations and could result in significant costs to remediate or replace the defective 
components. In addition, BB&T may incur significant training, licensing, maintenance, consulting and amortization expenses 
during and after the implementation, and any such costs may continue for an extended period of time. 
 
  
28 
 
Strategic and Other Risk
 
 
BB&T may experience significant competition in its market area, 
which may reduce its customer 
base or cause it to lower 
prices for its products and services in
 order to maintain market share. 
 
There is intense competition among commercial banks in BB&
T™s market area. In addition, BB&T competes with other 
providers of financial services, such as sa
vings and loan associations, credit unions
, consumer finance companies, securities 
firms, insurance companies, commercial finance and leasing companies, the mutual funds industry, full-service brokerage 
firms and discount brokerage firms, some of
 which are subject to less extensive regul
ations than BB&T is with respect to the 
products and services they provide. BB&T™s success depends, in 
part, on its ability to adapt its products and services to 
evolving industry standards and customer 
expectations. There is increasing pressure 
to provide products and services at lower 
prices. Lower prices can reduce BB&T™s NIM and reve
nues from its fee-based products and services. 
 
In addition, the adoption of new technologies
 by competitors, including internet banki
ng services, mobile phone applications 
and advanced ATM functionality could re
quire BB&T to make substantial expenditu
res to modify or adapt its existing 
products and services. Also, these and other capital investment
s in BB&T™s business may not 
produce expected growth in 
earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure. BB&T may 
not be successful in introduc
ing new products and services, 
achieving market acceptance of its products and services, anticipating or reacting to consumers™ changing technological 
preferences or developing and 
maintaining loyal customers. 
 
Some of BB&T™s larger competitors, includ
ing certain national banks that have a significant presence in BB&T™s market 
area, may have greater capital and resources than BB&T, may 
have higher lending limits and may offer products and services 
not offered by BB&T. Any potential adverse reactions to BB&T™s financial condition or status in the marketplace, as 
compared to its competitors, could limit BB&T™s ability to attr
act and retain customers and to compete for new business 
opportunities. The inability to attr
act and retain customers or to effectively co
mpete for new business may have a material 
and adverse effect on BB&T™s financia
l condition and results of operations. 
 
BB&T also experiences competition from a variety
 of institutions outside of its mark
et area. Some of these institutions 
conduct business primarily over 
the Internet and may thus be able to realize cer
tain cost savings and offer products and 
services at more favorable rates and with greater convenience to
 the customer who can pay b
ills and transfer funds directly 
without going through a bank. Th
is ﬁdisintermediationﬂ could result in the loss of fee income, as well as the loss of customer 
deposits and income generated from those deposits. In add
ition, changes in consumer spe
nding and saving habits could 
adversely affect BB&T™s operations, and the Company may be 
unable to develop competitive 
new products and services in 
response to these changes on a timely basis or at all. 
 
BB&T may not be able to complete future acquisitions. 
 
BB&T must generally satisfy a number of meaningful conditions
 before it can complete an acquisition of another bank or 
BHC, including federal and/or state regu
latory approvals. In determining whethe
r to approve a proposed bank acquisition, 
bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition, financial condition and futur
e 
prospects, including current and projected capital ratios and 
levels, the competence, experience and integrity of management 
and record of complian
ce with laws and regulations, the co
nvenience and needs of the comm
unities to be served, including 
the acquiring institution™s reco
rd of compliance under the CRA, 
the effectiveness of the acquiri
ng institution in combating 
money laundering activities and protests from various stakeholders
 of both BB&T and its acquisition partner. Also, under the 
Dodd-Frank Act, U.S. regulators must no
w take systemic risk into account when evaluating whether to approve a potential 
acquisition transaction involving a large 
financial institution like BB&T. BB&T cannot 
be certain when or if, or on what 
terms and conditions, any required regulato
ry approvals will be granted. In specific 
cases, BB&T may be required to sell 
banks or branches, or take other actions as
 a condition to receiving 
regulatory approval. An inability to satisfy other materia
l 
conditions necessary to consummate an acq
uisition transaction, such as third-part
y litigation, a judicial order blocking the 
transaction or lack of shareholder ap
proval, could also prevent BB&T from 
completing an announced acquisition. 
 
  
29 
 
Catastrophic events could have a material adverse effect on BB&T. 
 
The occurrence of catastrophic events such as hurricanes, tropical storms, tornados, winter storms and other large scale 
catastrophes could adversely affect BB&T™s consolidated fi
nancial condition or results of operations. BB&T has operations 
and customers along the Gulf and Atlantic coasts as well as othe
r parts of the southeastern United States, which could be 
adversely impacted by hurricanes and other severe weather in 
those regions. Unpredictable na
tural and other disasters could 
have an adverse effect on BB&T in that 
such events could materially disrupt its op
erations or the ability or willingness of its
 
customers to access the financial services offered by BB&T. BB&
T™s property and casualty ins
urance operations also expose 
it to claims arising out of catastrophes. 
The incidence and severity of catastrophes 
are inherently unpre
dictable. Although 
BB&T carries insurance to mitigate its ex
posure to certain catastrophic
 events, these events could nevertheless reduce 
BB&T™s earnings and cause volatility in its financial results for 
any fiscal quarter or year and have a material adverse effect
 
on BB&T™s financial condition and/or results of operations. 
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 
 
BB&T owns or leases significant office space used as the Co
mpany™s headquarters in Wi
nston-Salem, North Carolina. 
BB&T owns free-standing operations centers, with its primary operations and information technology center located in 
Wilson, North Carolina. Offices are either owned or operated under long-term leases. At December 31, 2013, Branch Bank 
operated 1,825 branch offices in North Carolina, Virginia, Florida, Georgia, Maryland, South Carolina, Alabama, Kentucky, 
West Virginia, Texas, Tennessee, Washington DC and Indian
a. BB&T also operates numerous insurance agencies and other 
businesses that occupy facilities. Management believes that th
e premises are well-located and suitably equipped to serve as 
financial services facilities. See Note 4 ﬁPremises and Equipmentﬂ in
 the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statementsﬂ in 
this report for additional disclosures rela
ted to properties and other fixed assets. 
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT™S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND 
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
 
BB&T™s common stock is traded on the NYSE under the sy
mbol ﬁBBT.ﬂ The common stock was held by approximately 
342,000 shareholders at December 31, 2013 compared to approximately 315,000 shareholders at December 31, 2012. The 
following table sets forth the quarterly high and low tradin
g prices and closing sales prices for BB&T™s common stock and 
the dividends declared per share of common stock for each of the last eight quarters. 
 
Table 4
Quarterly Summary of Market Prices and Cash Dividends Declared on Common Stock 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sales Prices
Dividends 
Sales Prices 
Dividends 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
High
 
 
Low 
Last 
Declared 
High 
Low 
 
Last 
Declared 
 
 
Quarter Ended: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
March 31 
$ 
 31.81 
$ 
 29.54
$
 31.39
$
 0.23
$
 31.94
$
 25.26 
$ 
 31.39
$
 0.20
 
 
 
June 30 
 
 34.37 
 
 29.18
 
 33.88
 
 0.23
 
 32.74
 
 27.40 
 
 30.85
 
 0.20
 
 
 
September 30 
 
 36.59 
 
 33.30
 
 33.75
 
 0.23
 
 34.37
 
 30.41 
 
 33.16
 
 0.20
 
 
 
December 31 
 
 37.42 
 
 32.65
 
 37.32
 
 0.23
 
 33.89
 
 26.86 
 
 29.11
 
 0.20
 
 
 
 
Year 
$ 
 37.42 
$ 
 29.18
$
 37.32
$
 0.92
$
 34.37
$
 25.26 
$ 
 29.11
$
 0.80
 
 
  
30 
 
Common Stock, Dividends and Share Repurchases 
 
BB&T™s ability to pay dividends is pr
imarily dependent on earnings from oper
ations, the adequacy of capital and the 
availability of liquid assets for distribution and is subject 
to the FRB not objecting to our capital plan. BB&T™s ability to 
generate liquid assets for distribution is de
pendent on the ability of Br
anch Bank to pay dividend
s to the Parent Company. 
The payment of cash dividends is an inte
gral part of providing a competitive retu
rn on shareholders™ investments. The 
Company™s policy is to accomplish this while retaining sufficient capital to support future growth and to meet regulatory 
requirements. Management has establishe
d a guideline that the common 
dividend payout ratio will 
be between 30% and 50% 
and the total payout ratio (including dividends and share repu
rchases) will be between 30% and 80% of basic EPS during 
normal economic conditions. BB&T™s common dividend payout rati
o, computed by dividing dividends declared per common 
share by basic EPS, was 41.4% in 2013 compared to 29.2% in
 2012. BB&T has paid a cash dividend to shareholders every 
year since 1903. In January 2013, the common dividend paymen
t dates were realigned to occur in the same quarter the 
dividends are declared. Going forward, BB&
T expects common dividend declarations, if declared, to occur in January, April, 
July and October with payment dates on or about the first of March, June, September and December. A discussion of 
dividend restrictions is included in Note
 15 ﬁRegulatory Requirements and Other Rest
rictionsﬂ in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated 
Financial Statementsﬂ and in the ﬁRegulatory Considerationsﬂ section. 
 
Share Repurchases 
 
BB&T has periodically repurchased shares of its own common st
ock. In accordance with North Carolina law, repurchased 
shares cannot be held as treasury stock, but revert to the 
status of authorized and unissued shares upon repurchase. 
 
During 2006, BB&T™s Board 
of Directors granted authority u
nder the 2006 Repurchase Plan fo
r the repurchase of up to 50 
million shares of BB&T™s common stock. Th
e 2006 Repurchase Plan remains in e
ffect until all the auth
orized shares are 
repurchased unless the plan is modified by
 the Board of Directors. No shares were 
repurchased in connection with the 2006 
Repurchase Plan during 2013, 2012, or 2011. 
 
Table 5
Share Repurchase Activity 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Maximum Remaining 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Number of Shares 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total
 
 
Average 
Total Shares Repurchased 
 
Available for Repurchase 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shares
 
 
Price Paid 
Pursuant to 
 
Pursuant to 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Repurchased (1)
 
Per Share (2) 
Publicly-Announced Plan 
 
Publicly-Announced Plan 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Shares in thousands)
 
 
 
October 2013 
 32 
$
 33.77 
 

   
 44,139
 
N
ovember 2013 
 7 
 33.83 
 

   
 44,139
 
December 2013 
 1 
 36.35 
 

   
 44,139
 
 
Total 
 40 
 33.82 
 

   
 44,139
 
(1)
 
Repurchases reflect shares exchanged 
or surrendered in connection with the exercise of equity-based awards under 
BB&T™s equity-based compensation plans.  
(2) 
Excludes commissions.  
 
Preferred Stock 
 
During 2013, BB&T issued $500 million of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock for net proceeds of $487 million. 
These securities are expected to quali
fy as non-common Tier 1 capital under the 
new Basel III capital rules. If declared, 
dividends are payable quarterly, 
in arrears, at a rate of 5.20% per annum. See 
Note 10 ﬁShareholders™ Equityﬂ in the ﬁNotes 
to Consolidated Financial Stateme
ntsﬂ for additional information. 
 
On April 23, 2013, BB&T™s shareholders approved a plan that m
odified the record date and payment date of preferred stock 
dividends to align with the record and payment date practic
es associated with common stoc
k dividends. This action was 
undertaken in order to achieve admi
nistrative and Board-level efficiencies an
d reduce the costs a
ssociated with multiple 
record dates and multiple payment dates. 
 
  31 
 Equity Compensation Plan Information  The following table prov
ides information concerning securities to be issu
ed upon the exer
cise of outstanding equity-based 
awards, the weighted average price of such
 awards and the securities remaining availab
le for future issuance as of December 
31, 2013. 
  Table 6  Equity Compensation Plan Information
      (a)(1)
 (b)(2)
(c)(3)
       Number of securities
 Weighted-average
Number of securities remaining
      to be issued upon
 exercise price of
available for future issuance
      exercise of outstanding
outstanding options,
under equity compensation plans
  Plan Category
 options, warrants and rights
 warrants and rights 
(excluding securities reflected in (a))
  Approved by security holders 
  52,966,410 
 $ 34.90 
   30,561,739 
   Not approved by security holders 
     
       
      
    Total   52,966,410 
  34.90 
   30,561,739 
  (1) 
Includes 14,970,214 RSUs. 
(2) 
Excludes RSUs because they do not have an exercise price. 
(3) 
All awards remaining available for future
 issuance will be issued under the 
terms of the 2012
 Incentive Plan. 
 Performance Graph   Set forth below are graphs comparing the total returns (ass
uming reinvestment of dividends) of BB&T common stock, the 
S&P 500 Index, and an industry Peer Group. The Peer Group cons
ists of FHCs and BHCs with assets between approximately 
$55 billion and $365 billion as of December 31, 2013. The companies in the Peer Group were Comerica Incorporated, Fifth-

Third Bancorp, Huntington Bancshares, 
Incorporated, KeyCorp, M&T Bank Corpora
tion, PNC Financial Services Group, 
Inc., Regions Financial Corporation, SunTrust Banks,
 Inc., U.S. Bancorp and Zions Bancorporation.  
       $0$100

$200

$300
$400
$500

$600

$700

$800
12/93
12/94

12/95

12/96
12/97
12/98

12/99

12/00
12/01
12/02
12/03
12/04
12/05
12/06
12/07
12/08
12/09

12/10
12/11
12/12
12/13
Comparison of 20 Year Cumulative Total Return*
  32 
           * $100 invested on December 31, 1993, 2003 or 2008, including reinvestment of dividends. Fiscal year ended 
December 31. 
      Cumulative Total Return Through December 31,  
   Cumulative Total Return 
       2008  
 2009  
2010  
2011  
2012  
2013  
  Through December 31, 2013
     $100 Invested December 31, 2008 
   10 Year 
 20 Year 
  BB&T Corporation
 $  100.00 
 $  98.10 
$ 103.92 
$ 101.97 
$ 120.90 
$ 160.46 
   $  142.21 
 $ 753.64 
  S&P 500 Index
   100.00 
   126.45 
  145.49 
  148.55 
  172.30 
  228.09 
     204.29 
   582.47 
  BB&T™s Peer Group
   100.00 
   93.38 
  122.34 
  108.47 
  132.74 
  180.14 
     111.24 
   495.97 
  $0$50
$100

$150

$200

$250
12/0312/0412/0512/0612/0712/0812/0912/1012/1112/1212/13
Comparison of 10 Year Cumulative Total Return*
$0$50
$100

$150
$200
$250
12/0812/0912/1012/1112/1212/13
Comparison of 5 Year Cumulative Total Return*
BB&T Corporation
S&P 500 Index
BB&T's Peer Group
  
33 
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
(Dollars in millions, except per 
share data, shares in thousands) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Five Year
 
 
 
 
As of/ For the Years Ended December 31,
Compound
 
 
 
 
2013
 
2012
2011
2010
2009
 
 
2008
Growth Rate
Summary of Operations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
Interest income 
$
 6,507 
 
$
 6,917 
 
$
 6,885 
 
$
 7,115 
 
$
 6,884 
 
 
$
 7,207 
 
 (2.0)
%
 
Interest expense 
 891 
 
 1,060 
 
 1,378 
 
 1,795 
 
 2,040 
 
 
 2,969 
 
 (21.4)
 
N
et interest income 
 5,616 
 
 5,857 
 
 5,507 
 
 5,320 
 
 4,844 
 
 
 4,238 
 
 5.8 
 
Provision for credit losses 
 592 
 
 1,057 
 
 1,190 
 
 2,638 
 
 2,811 
 
 
 1,445 
 
 (16.3)
 
N
et interest income afte
r
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
provision for credit losses 
 5,024 
 
 4,800 
 
 4,317 
 
 2,682 
 
 2,033 
 
 
 2,793 
 
 12.5 
 
N
oninterest income 
 
 3,937 
 
 
 3,820 
 
 
 3,113 
 
 
 3,957 
 
 
 3,934 
 
 
 
 3,197 
 
 4.3 
 
 
N
oninterest expense 
 
 5,837 
 
 
 5,828 
 
 
 5,802 
 
 
 5,670 
 
 
 4,931 
 
 
 
 3,911 
 
 8.3 
 
 
Income before income taxes 
 
 3,124 
 
 
 2,792 
 
 
 1,628 
 
 
 969 
 
 
 1,036 
 
 
 
 2,079 
 
 8.5 
 
 
Provision for income taxes 
 
 1,395 
 
 
 764 
 
 
 296 
 
 
 115 
 
 
 159 
 
 
 
 550 
 
 20.5 
 
 
N
et income 
 
 1,729 
 
 
 2,028 
 
 
 1,332 
 
 
 854 
 
 
 877 
 
 
 
 1,529 
 
 2.5 
 
 
N
oncontrolling interest 
 
 50 
 
 
 49 
 
 
 43 
 
 
 38 
 
 
 24 
 
 
 
 10 
 
 38.0 
 
 
Dividends and accretion on 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
preferred stock 
 
 117 
 
 
 63 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 
 124 
 
 
 
 21 
 
NM
 
 
N
et income available to 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
common shareholders 
$
 1,562 
 
$
 1,916 
 
$
 1,289 
 
$
 816 
 
$
 729 
 
 
$
 1,498 
 
 0.8 
Per Common Share: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Average shares outstanding: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Basic 
 703,042 
 
 698,739 
 
 696,532 
 
 692,489 
 
 629,583 
 
 
 548,847 
 
 5.1 
 
 
Diluted 
 714,363 
 
 708,877 
 
 705,168 
 
 701,039 
 
 635,619 
 
 
 552,498 
 
 5.3 
 
Earnings: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Basic 
$
 2.22 
 
$
 2.74 
 
$
 1.85 
 
$
 1.18 
 
$
 1.16 
 
 
$
 2.73 
 
 (4.1)
 
 
Diluted 
 2.19 
 
 2.70 
 
 1.83 
 
 1.16 
 
 1.15 
 
 
 2.71 
 
 (4.2)
 
Cash dividends declared (1) 
 0.92 
 
 0.80 
 
 0.65 
 
 0.60 
 
 0.92 
 
 
 1.87 
 
 (13.2)
 
Book value 
 28.52 
 
 27.21 
 
 24.98 
 
 23.67 
 
 23.47 
 
 
 23.16 
 
 4.3 
Average Balances: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Securities, at amortized cost (2) 
$
 36,772 
 
$
 36,334 
 
$
 29,923 
 
$
 27,610 
 
$
 31,226 
 
 
$
 23,402 
 
 9.5 
 
Loans and leases (3) 
 
 117,527 
 
 
 113,733 
 
 
 105,962 
 
 
 104,787 
 
 
 102,146 
 
 
 
 95,195 
 
 4.3 
 
 
Other assets 
 
 26,963 
 
 
 28,567 
 
 
 27,081 
 
 
 27,261 
 
 
 21,810 
 
 
 
 18,284 
 
 8.1 
 
 
 
Total assets 
$
 181,262 
 
$
 178,634 
 
$
 162,966 
 
$
 159,658 
 
$
 155,182 
 
 
$
 136,881 
 
 5.8 
 
 
Deposits 
$
 128,555 
 
$
 127,617 
 
$
 112,318 
 
$
 106,773 
 
$
 102,381 
 
 
$
 88,831 
 
 7.7 
 
 
Long-term debt 
 
 19,301 
 
 
 20,651 
 
 
 22,257 
 
 
 21,653 
 
 
 19,085 
 
 
 
 19,839 
 
 (0.5)
 
 
Other liabilities 
 
 11,516 
 
 
 10,889 
 
 
 11,124 
 
 
 14,346 
 
 
 17,478 
 
 
 
 14,678 
 
 (4.7)
 
 
Shareholders' equity 
 
 21,890 
 
 
 19,477 
 
 
 17,267 
 
 
 16,886 
 
 
 16,238 
 
 
 
 13,533 
 
 10.1 
 
 
Total liabilities and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
shareholders' equity 
$
 181,262 
 
$
 178,634 
 
$
 162,966 
 
$
 159,658 
 
$
 155,182 
 
 
$
 136,881 
 
 5.8 
 
Period-End Balances: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total assets 
$
 183,010 
 
$
 184,499 
 
$
 175,011 
 
$
 157,081 
 
$
 165,764 
 
 
$
 152,015 
 
 3.8 
 
 
Loans and leases (3) 
 
 117,139 
 
 
 118,364 
 
 
 111,205 
 
 
 107,264 
 
 
 106,207 
 
 
 
 98,669 
 
 3.5 
 
 
Deposits 
 
 127,475 
 
 
 133,075 
 
 
 124,939 
 
 
 107,213 
 
 
 114,965 
 
 
 
 98,613 
 
 5.3 
 
 
Long-term debt 
 
 21,493 
 
 
 19,114 
 
 
 21,803 
 
 
 21,730 
 
 
 21,376 
 
 
 
 18,032 
 
 3.6 
 
 
Shareholders' equity 
 
 22,809 
 
 
 21,223 
 
 
 17,480 
 
 
 16,498 
 
 
 16,241 
 
 
 
 16,081 
 
 7.2 
 
Selected Ratios: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rate of return on: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Average total assets 
 
 0.95 
%
 
 1.14 
%
 
 0.82 
%
 
 0.54 
%
 
 0.56 
% 
 
 
 1.12 
%
 
 
 
 
Average common equity 
 
 8.06 
 
 
 10.35 
 
 
 7.49 
 
 
 4.85 
 
 
 4.93 
 
 
 
 11.44 
 
 
 
 
 
Average total equity 
 
 7.90 
 
 
 10.41 
 
 
 7.71 
 
 
 5.06 
 
 
 5.40 
 
 
 
 11.30 
 
 
 
 
Dividend payout 
 
 41.44 
 
 
 29.20 
 
 
 35.14 
 
 
 50.85 
 
 
 79.31 
 
 
 
 68.50 
 
 
 
 
Average equity to average assets 
 
 12.08 
 
 
 10.90 
 
 
 10.60 
 
 
 10.58 
 
 
 10.46 
 
 
 
 9.89 
 
 
 
(1)
 
2011 included a special $0.01 dividend. 
(2) 
Excludes trading securities. 
(3) 
Loans and leases are net of unearned income and include LHFS. 
  
  
34 
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF 
OPERATIONS 
 
Executive Overview 
 
 
Significant accomplishments in 2013  
 
The Company™s more significant accomplishments during 2013 were: 
 

 
Record income before taxes 
of $3.1 billion, an 11.9% increa
se over the prior year.  
 

 
Continued improvemen
t in credit quality: 
 
o
 
NPAs, excluding covered assets, declined $483 mill
ion, or 31.4%. NPAs are at their lowest level since 2007. 
 
o
 
Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases were 0.67%, compared to 1.14% and 1.57% for 
2012 and 2011, respectively. 
 
o
 
ALLL was 219% of net charge-offs at December 31, 2013, compared to 156% and 136% at December 31, 2012 
and 2011, respectively.  
 

 
Growth in noninterest income was driven by record reve
nues in the insurance, investment banking and brokerage, 
bankcard fees and merchant discounts, an
d trust and investment advisory LOBs. 
 

 
Continued improvement in deposit mix and average cost: 
 
o
 
Average noninterest-bearing deposits increased 
17.3% during 2013 and represented 26.4% of total average 
deposits for 2013 compared to 22.7% in 2012. 
 
o
 
The average cost of interest-bearing deposits for 2013 wa
s 0.32%, a decline of 11 basis points compared to the 
prior year. The average cost was 0.28% for the fourth quarter of 2013. 
 

 
Strong growth in all regulatory 
capital ratios thro
ughout 2013: 
 
o
 
Tier 1 risk-based capital increased to 11.8% at y
ear-end 2013, compared to
 10.5% at year-end 2012. 
 
o
 
Total capital was 14.3% at year-end 2013, compared to 13.4% at year-end 2012. 
 
o
 
Leverage capital was 9.3% at year-end 2013, compared to 8.2% at year-end 2012. 
 
Challenges  
 
BB&T™s business has become more dynamic and complex in 
recent years. Consequently, management has annually 
evaluated and, as necessary, adjusted the Company™s business strategy in the context of the current operating environment. 
During this process, management considers the current fina
ncial condition and performan
ce of the Company and its 
expectations for future economic activity from both a national and 
local market perspective. Th
e achievement of BB&T™s key 
strategic objectives and established long-term financial goals is
 subject to many uncertainties and challenges. In the opinion 
of management, the challenges that are most relevant and like
ly to have a near term impact
 on performance are presented 
below:  
 

 
Global economic uncertainty Œ including the impact 
of U.S. fiscal debt, budget and tax negotiations  
 

 
Intense competition within the financial services industry gi
ven the challenge in growing assets during a period of 
sustained low interest rates 
 

 
Cost and risk associated with
 the regulatory reform and 
initiatives and IT projects 
 
  
35 
 
Overview of Significant Events and Financial Results  
 
BB&T generated strong operating results 
for 2013, despite the challenge
s associated with the continued low interest rate 
environment, increased costs associated with certain regulator
y initiatives and intense comp
etition for loans to qualified 
borrowers. From a NIM perspective, the negative impact as
sociated with lower yields on 
new loans and securities was 
partially mitigated by a 15.9% decrease in 
funding costs, primarily drive
n by a decline in the cost of interest-bearing deposit
s 
to 0.32% compared to 0.43% in the prior year. The provision
 for credit losses declined 44.0% compared to the prior year, 
reflecting continued improvement in credit qualit
y. Noninterest income increased compared
 to the prior year, based on record 
insurance income, investment banking and brokerage fees and 
commissions, bankcard fees and merchant discounts and trust 
and investment advisory revenues, while noninterest expe
nse was essentially flat compared to the prior year, despite 
significant costs associated with systems, process-related enhancements and regulatory costs.  
 
Consolidated net income 
available to common shareholders
 for 2013 totaled $1.6 
billion, a decrease of $354 million, or 
18.5%, compared to $1.9 billion earned du
ring 2012. On a diluted per common shar
e basis, earnings for 2013 were $2.19, 
compared to $2.70 for 2012. BB&T™s results of operations for 
2013 produced a return on av
erage assets of 0.95% and a 
return on average common shareholders™ equity of 8.06% compar
ed to prior year ratios of 
1.14% and 10.35%, respectively.  
 
During 2013, BB&T recognized $516 million in adjustments to the provision for income taxes. On September 20, 2013, the 
U.S. Court of Federal Claims denied BB&T™s refund claim rela
ted to the IRS™s disallowance of tax deductions and foreign 
tax credits taken in connection with a fi
nancing transaction entered into by BB
&T in 2002. BB&T has a
ppealed this ruling. 
Excluding the impact of these adjustments, diluted EPS was $2
.91 and the adjusted results of
 operations for 2013 produced 
an annualized return on average assets of 1.24% and an annu
alized return on average co
mmon shareholders™ equity of 
10.55%. See non-GAAP information on page 83. 
 
BB&T™s revenues for 2013 were $9.7 billion on
 a FTE basis, a decrease of 1.3% comp
ared to 2012. Net interest income on a 
FTE basis was $244 million lower than the prior year, which reflects a $414 million decrease in interest income that was 
partially offset by a decrease in funding costs totaling $170 million.
 Noninterest income increased 3.1% compared to 2012, 
which reflects solid growth in insurance income, trust and inve
stment advisory revenues and bankcard fees and merchant 
discounts totaling 11.6%, 8.7% and 8.5%
, respectively. These increases were partially offset by a 32.7% decrease in 
mortgage banking income. 
 
Credit costs declined significantly during 2013 as NPAs, ex
cluding covered assets, declin
ed $483 million, or 31.4%, 
compared to 2012. This decline included a $445 million decrease in NPLs and a $38 million decrease in foreclosed real estate 
and other property. Net charge-offs for 2013, excluding covered, were $773 million, a decrease of $487 million, or 38.7%, 
compared to the prior year. BB&T™s provisio
n for credit losses, excluding covered, to
taled $587 million in
 2013, compared to 
$1.0 billion in the prior year. The ratio of the ALLL to net 
charge-offs excluding covered wa
s 2.09x for 2013, compared to 
1.50x in 2012. Foreclosed property expenses declined $211 mi
llion, or 79.3%, during 2013, reflecting fewer losses and write-
downs related to foreclosed property. 
 
BB&T™s total assets at December 31, 2013 were $183.0 billion, a decrease of $1.5 billion compared to December 31, 2012. 
This decline includes a $1.2 billion decreas
e in total loans and leases, 
a $900 million decrease in cash and cash equivalents 
and a $1.0 billion decrease in other assets. These decreases we
re partially offset by a $1.5 billion increase in the securities
 
portfolio. The decrease in the 
total loan and lease portfo
lio was primarily driven by a $2
.5 billion decrease in LHFS and a 
$1.3 billion decrease in the cove
red loan portfolio, partially offset by a $2.6
 billion increase in loans and leases held for 
investment. The increase in the total securities portfolio is pr
imarily the result of increased s
ecurities purchases during the
 
fourth quarter of 2013, which oc
curred in response to
 a decrease in loan or
iginations. The decrease in other assets primarily 
relates to the previously described income tax adjustments. 
 
Total deposits at December 31, 2013 were $127.5 billion, a decrease of $5.6 billion, or 4.2%, from December 31, 2012. The 
decrease in deposits reflects a decrease in certificates and ot
her time deposits and interest checking totaling $6.7 billion an
d 
$2.2 billion, respectively. These decr
eases were partially offset by an increase in 
noninterest-bearing de
posits totaling $2.5 
billion. These changes resulted in a substa
ntial improvement to deposit 
mix, with noninterest-be
aring accounts representing 
27.4% of total deposits at December 31, 2013, compared to 24.4% at December 31, 2012. The cost of interest-bearing 
deposits for 2013 declined 11 basis points compared to the prior year. 
 
Total shareholders™ equity increased $1.6 billion, or 7.5%, 
compared to December 31, 2012. This increase was primarily 
driven by net income in excess of dividends totaling $915 million and proceeds from the issuance of Tier 1 qualifying Series 
G Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock totaling $487 million. BB&T™
s Tier 1 risk-based capital and 
total risk-based capital ratios 
at December 31, 2013 increased to 11.8% and 14.3%, respectively, compared to 10.5% and 13.4% at December 31, 2012, 
respectively. BB&T™s risk-based capital 
ratios remain well above regulatory 
standards for well-capitalized banks.  
  
36 
 
 
Reclassifications 
 
 
In certain circumstances, reclassifications have been made to pr
ior period information to confo
rm to the 2
013 presentation. 
Such reclassifications had no e
ffect on previously reported shareholders™ equity or net income. 
 
Critical Accounting Policies 
 
The accounting and reporting policies of BB&T are in accordance with GAAP and conform to the accounting and reporting 
guidelines prescribed by bank regulatory 
authorities. The financial position and re
sults of operations are affected by 
management™s application of accounting policies, including estimates, assumptions and judgments made to arrive at the 
carrying value of assets and liabilities and amounts reported for revenues and expenses. Different assumptions in the 
application of these policies could result in material changes in the 
consolidated financial positi
on and/or consolidated resul
ts 
of operations and related disclosures. The more critical accounting and reporting policies include those related to the ACL, 
determining fair value of financial instruments, intangible 
assets and other purchase accounting related adjustments 
associated with mergers and acquisitions, costs and benefit 
obligations associated with BB&T™s pension and postretirement 
benefit plans and income taxes. Understa
nding BB&T™s accounting policies is fundament
al to understanding the consolidated 
financial position and consolidated results of operations. Accordingly, BB&T™s significant accounting policies and changes 
in accounting principles and effects of new accounting pronouncements are discussed in detail in Note 1 ﬁSummary of 
Significant Accounting Policiesﬂ in the ﬁNotes
 to Consolidated Financial Statements.ﬂ 
 
The following is a summary of BB&T™s critical accounting policies that are highly dependent on estimates, assumptions and 
judgments. These critical accounting policies are reviewed with the Audit Committee of BB&T™s Board of Directors on a 
periodic basis. 
 
ACL 
 
It is the policy of BB&T to maintain an ALLL and a RUFC th
at represent management™s be
st estimate of probable credit 
losses inherent in the portfolio at the 
balance sheet date. Estimates for loan and lease losses are determined by analyzing 
historical loan and lease losses, historical loan and lease migration to charge-off experience, current trends in delinquencies
 
and charge-offs, expected cash flows on purchased loans, curre
nt assessment of problem loan
s and leases, the results of 
regulatory examinations and changes 
in the size, composition and risk assessment 
of the loan and lease
 portfolio. As part of 
this process, BB&T develops a series of loss estimate fact
ors, which are modeled projections of the frequency, timing and 
severity of losses. These loss estimate factors are based on
 historical loss experience, economic and political environmental 
considerations and any other 
data that management believes will provide ev
idence about the expected collectability of 
outstanding loan and lease amounts. The following table summarizes the loss estimate factors used to determine the ALLL. 
 
Loss Estimate Factor  Description  
Loss Frequency  Indicates the likelihood 
of a borrower defaulting on a loan  
Loss Severity  Indicates the amount of 
estimated loss at the time of default 
 
For collectively evaluated
 loans, the ALLL is determined by multiplying the 
loan exposure by the loss frequency and loss 
severity factors. For individually evaluated loans, the ALLL is
 determined through review of 
data specific to the borrower. 
For TDRs, default expectations and estimated slower prepayment speeds that are specific to each of the restructured loan 
populations are incorporated in the determi
nation of the ALLL. Also included in management™s estimates for loan and lease 
losses are considerations with respect to the impact of current
 economic events, the outcomes of which are uncertain. These 
events may include, but are not limited
 to, fluctuations in overall interest 
rates, political conditions
, legislation that may 
directly or indirectly affect the banking
 industry and economic conditions affecting specific geographical areas and industries
 
in which BB&T conducts business.  
 
The methodology used to determine an estimate for the RUFC is in
herently similar to the me
thodology used in calculating 
the ALLL adjusted for factors specific to binding commitments, including the probability of funding and exposure at the time 
of funding. A detailed discussion of the methodology used in determining the ALLL and the RUFC is included in Note 1 
ﬁSummary of Significant Accounting Policiesﬂ in th
e ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements.ﬂ 
 
Fair Value of Finan
cial Instruments  
 
The vast majority of assets and liabilities carried at fair value 
are based on either quoted market prices or market prices for
 
similar instruments. See Note 17 ﬁFair Value Disclosuresﬂ in
 the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Fi
nancial Statementsﬂ herein for 
additional disclosures regarding the fair value of financial instruments. 
  
37 
 
 
Securities 
 
BB&T generally utilizes a third-party pricing service in determin
ing the fair value of its AFS and trading securities. Fair 
value measurements are derived from market-based pricing matrices
 that were developed using ob
servable inputs that include 
benchmark yields, benchmark securities, reported trades, offe
rs, bids, issuer spreads and 
broker quotes. Management 
performs various procedures to evaluate the accuracy of the fair values provided by the third-party service provider. These 
procedures, which are performed independent of the responsibl
e LOB, include comparison of pricing information received 
from the third party pricing service to othe
r third party pricing sources, review of a
dditional information pr
ovided by the thi
rd 
party pricing service and other th
ird party sources for selected 
securities and back-testing to 
compare the price realized on 
any security sales to the daily pricing information received from the third party pricing service. The IPV committee, which 
provides oversight to BB&T™s enterprise-wide IPV function, is
 responsible for oversight of the comparison of pricing 
information received from the third part
y pricing service to other 
third party pricing sources, approving tolerance limits 
determined by IPV for price comparison exceptions, reviewi
ng significant changes to prici
ng and valuation policies and 
reviewing and approving the pricing d
ecisions made on any illiquid and hard-t
o-price securities. When market observable 
data is not available, which generally occurs due to the lack of
 liquidity for certain securities, the valuation of the securit
y is 
subjective and may involve substantial judgment by management. As of December 31, 2013, BB&T had approximately $861 
million of AFS securities valued using unobservable inputs, the majority of which were non-agency MBS securities that are 
covered by a loss sharing agreement with the FDIC. 
 
BB&T periodically reviews AFS securities with an unrealized loss. 
An unrealized loss exists when
 the current fair value of 
an individual security is less than its amortized cost basis. Th
e purpose of the review is to consider the length of time and t
he 
extent to which the market valu
e of a security has been below its amortized cost. The primary factors BB&T considers in 
determining whether an impairment is other-than-temporary are long-term expectations and recent experience regarding 
principal and interest payments and BB&T™s 
intent to sell and whether it 
is more likely than not that the Company would be 
required to sell those securities before the 
anticipated recovery of the 
amortized cost basis. 
 
MSRs 
 
BB&T has a significant mortgage loan servicing portfolio an
d related MSRs. BB&T has two classes of MSRs for which it 
separately manages the economic risk: residential and commercial. 
Residential MSRs are primarily carried at fair value with 
changes in fair value recorded as a component of mortgage 
banking income. BB&T uses various derivative instruments to 
mitigate the income statement effect of changes in fair valu
e due to changes in valuation in
puts and assumptions of its 
residential MSRs. MSRs do not trade in 
an active, open market with readily observable prices. While sales of MSRs do 
occur, the precise terms and conditions ty
pically are not readily available. Accordin
gly, BB&T estimates the fair value of 
residential MSRs using an OAS valuation model to project MSR cash 
flows over multiple interest 
rate scenarios, which are 
then discounted at risk-adjusted rates. The OAS model cons
iders portfolio characteristics, contractually specified servicing 
fees, prepayment assumptions, delinquency
 rates, late charges, other ancillary revenu
e, costs to service and other economic 
factors. BB&T reassesses and periodically adjusts the underlyi
ng inputs and assumptions in the OAS model to reflect market 
conditions and assumptions that 
a market participant would consider
 in valuing the MSR asset.  
 
Fair value estimates and assumptions are compared to industry surveys, recent market activity, actual portfolio experience 
and, when available, observable market data. Due to the nature of 
the valuation inputs, MSRs are classified within Level 3 of 
the valuation hierarchy. The value of MSRs is significantly affected by mortgage interest rates available in the marketplace, 
which influence mortgage loan prepayment speeds. In general, du
ring periods of declining intere
st rates, the value of MSRs 
declines due to increasing prepayments attributable to increased 
mortgage-refinance activity. Conversely, during periods of 
rising interest rates, the value of MSRs generally increases due to reduced refinance activity. Commercial MSRs are carried 
at the lower of cost or market and amortized over the estimated period that servicing income is expected to be received based 
on projections of the amount and timing of estimated fut
ure cash flows. The amount and timing of servicing asset 
amortization is based on actual results and updated projectio
ns. Refer to Note 6 ﬁLoan Servicingﬂ in the ﬁNotes to 
Consolidated Financial Statementsﬂ for quan
titative disclosures reflecting the effect that changes in management™s 
assumptions would have on the fair value of MSRs.  
 
  
38 
 
LHFS 
 
BB&T originates certain mortgage loans for sale to investors that ar
e carried at fair value. The fair value is primarily based 
on quoted market prices for securities backed by similar types 
of loans. Changes in the fa
ir value are recorded as a 
component of mortgage banking income, while the related orig
ination costs are recognized 
in noninterest expense when 
incurred. The changes in fair va
lue of these assets are largely dr
iven by changes in interest rates
 subsequent to loan funding 
and changes in the fair value of servicin
g associated with the mortgage loan he
ld for sale. BB&T uses various derivative 
instruments to mitigate the economic effect of 
changes in fair value of the underlying loans. 
 
Derivative Assets and Liabilities  
 
BB&T uses derivatives to manage various financial risks. Th
e fair values of derivative financial instruments are determined 
based on quoted market prices and internal pricing models th
at are primarily sensitive to 
market observable data. BB&T 
mitigates the credit risk by subjecting c
ounterparties to credit reviews and approvals
 similar to those used in making loans 
and other extensions of credit. In add
ition, certain counterparties are required to
 provide collateral to 
BB&T when their 
unsecured loss positions exceed certain negoti
ated limits. The fair value of interest 
rate lock commitments, which are related 
to mortgage loan commitments, is based on quoted market pri
ces adjusted for commitments that BB&T does not expect to 
fund and includes the value attribut
able to the net servicing fee. 
 
Private Equity and Similar Investments  
 
BB&T has private equity and similar investments that are carried at
 fair value. Changes in the fair value of these investments 
are recorded in other noninterest income each period. In many cases there are no observable market values for these 
investments and management must estimate the fair value 
based on a comparison of the operating performance of the 
company to multiples in the marketplace for similar entities. This analysis requires significant judgment, and actual values in
 
a sale could differ materially from those estimated. As of December
 31, 2013, BB&T had $291 million of these investments, 
which represented less 
than 1% of total assets. 
 
Intangible Assets  
 
BB&T™s mergers and acquisitions are accounted for using the acquisition method of accounting, which requires that acquired 
assets and liabilities are recorded at their fair values. This often
 involves estimates based on third party valuations or inte
rnal 
valuations based on discounted cash flow
 analyses or other valuation techniques, a
ll of which are inherently subjective. The 
amortization of identified intangible assets is based upon the estimated economic benefits to be received, which is also 
subjective. Acquisitions typically result in go
odwill, which is subject to ongoing periodic impairment tests based on the fair 
values of the reporting units to which 
the acquired goodwill relates. Refer to Note 1 ﬁSummary of Significant Accounting 
Policiesﬂ in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statementsﬂ 
for a description of the impairment testing process. 
Management considers the sensitivity of the significant assumpti
ons in its impairment analysis including consideration of a 
10% change in estimated future cash flows or 
the discount rate for each reporting unit. 
 
Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligations  
 
BB&T offers various pension plans and post
retirement benefit plans to employees. Ca
lculation of the obligations and related 
expenses under these plans requires the use of actuarial valu
ation methods and assumptions. Actuarial assumptions used in 
the determination of future values of plan assets and 
liabilities are subject to manageme
nt judgment and may differ 
significantly if different assumptions ar
e used. The discount rate assumption used to measure the postretirement benefit 
obligations is set by reference to a high-quality (AA-rate
d or higher) corporate bond yield
 curve and the individual 
characteristics of the plans such as projected cash flow pattern
s and payment durations. Management evaluated the sensitivity 
changes that the expected 
return on plan assets and the di
scount rate would have on pensi
on expense for 2014. A decrease of 
25 basis points in the discount rate wo
uld result in additional pension expense of
 approximately $17 million for 2014, while a 
decrease of 100 basis points in the expected return on plan asse
ts would result in an increase of approximately $37 million in 
pension expense for 2014. Refer to No
te 13 ﬁBenefit Plansﬂ in the ﬁNotes 
to Consolidated Financial Statementsﬂ for 
disclosures related to BB&T™s benefit plans. 
 
  
39 
 
Income Taxes  
 
The calculation of BB&T™s income tax provision is complex an
d requires the use of estimates and judgments. As part of the 
Company™s analysis and implementation of 
business strategies, consideration is give
n to the tax laws and regulations that 
apply to the specific facts and circumstances
 for any tax position under evaluation. Fo
r tax positions that are uncertain in 
nature, management determines whether the tax position is more
 likely than not to be sus
tained upon examination. For tax 
positions that meet this threshold, manage
ment then estimates the amount
 of the tax benefit to recognize in the financial 
statements. Management closely monitors tax developments in or
der to evaluate the effect they may have on the Company™s 
overall tax position and the estimates and judgments used in dete
rmining the income tax provision
 and records adjustments as 
necessary. 
 
A
nal
y
sis o
f
 Results of Operations
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 7
 
 Profitability Measures
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013 
Adjusted 2013 (1)
2012  
 
2011  
 
 
EPS: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Basic 
$
 2.22
 
$
 2.96 
 
$
 2.74 
 
 
$ 
 1.85 
 
 
 
 
Diluted 
 
 2.19
 
 
 2.91 
 
 
 2.70 
 
 
 
 1.83 
 
 
 
Rate of return on: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Average assets  
 
 0.95
%
 
 1.24 
%
 
 1.14 
% 
 
 
 0.82 
%
 
 
 
Average common shareholders™ equity  
 
 8.06
 
 
 10.55 
 
 
 10.35 
 
 
 
 7.49 
 
 
 
N
IM (FTE)  
 
 3.68
 
 
N/A
 
 
 3.91 
 
 
 
 4.06 
 
 
 
(1) 
Calculated excluding the impact of th
e adjustments for uncertain income tax 
positions of $516 million recorded 
during 2013. For additional information, 
see Non-GAAP Inform
ation on page 83. 
 
 
Net Interest Income and NIM 
 
Net interest income is BB&T™s primary source of revenue. Net in
terest income is influenced by a number of factors, 
including the volume, mix and maturity of interest-earning as
sets and interest-bearing liabilities and the interest rates earne
d 
and paid thereon. The difference between rates earned on interest-
earning assets and the cost of 
funds (with a FTE adjustment 
made to tax-exempt items to prov
ide comparability with taxable ite
ms) is measured by the NIM. 
 
2013 compared to 2012 
 
For 2013, net interest income on an FTE-
adjusted basis totaled 
$5.8 billion, a decrease
 of $244 million or 4.1%, compared to 
the prior year. The decrease in net interest 
income reflects lower yield
s on new loans and securities
 and runoff in the covered
 
loan portfolio, partially offset by lower funding costs, which declined $170 million compared to 2012. The improvement in 
funding costs reflects an 11 basis point reduction in the aver
age cost of interest-bearing deposits and a lower average long-
term debt balance. 
 
The FTE-adjusted NIM is the primary measure used in eval
uating the gross profit margin fro
m the portfolios of earning 
assets. The FTE-adjusted NIM was 3.68% in 2013 compared w
ith 3.91% in 2012. The decline in the NIM primarily reflects 
lower yields on new lo
ans and securities and covered loan runoff, partially 
offset by the lower funding
 costs described above. 
The average annualized FTE yield for total loans and leases was 
4.85% for 2013, 
compared to 5.35% for 
the prior year. The 
decrease was primarily due to lower yields on new loan origi
nations and the runoff of higher yielding covered loans. The 
FTE yield on the total securities portfolio 
was 2.51% for the year ended December 31
, 2013, compared to 2.64% for the prior 
year. This decrease reflects runoff in the covered security
 portfolio and security duration adjustments.  
 
Management expects NIM to decline approxim
ately five basis points in the first quar
ter of 2014 as a re
sult of an increase in 
the relative size of the securities portfolio
 and lower earning asset yields, partially offset by lower funding costs.  
 
The average rate paid on interest-bearing deposits dropped to
 0.32% during 2013, from 0.43% in 2012. This improvement 
included a 16 basis point reduction in the co
st of certificates and other 
time deposits and a five ba
sis point reduction in the
 
cost of money market and savings accounts. 
 
  
40 
 
The rates paid on average short-term borrowings declined from 0.26% in 2012 to 0.16% during 2013. At December 31, 2013, 
the targeted Federal funds rate was a range of zero percent to 0.
25%. The average rate on long
-term debt during 2013 was 
3.03%, an increase of one basis point compared to the prior year. This increase reflects the redemption of all higher cost 
junior subordinated debt to unconsolidated trusts and the related benefit associated with accelerated amortization of 
derivatives that were unwound in a gain 
position during 2012, partially offset by 
lower effective rates on new debt issued 
during 2013. 
 
2012 compared to 2011 
 
For 2012, net interest income on an FTE-ad
justed basis totaled $6.0 b
illion, compared with
 $5.7 billion in 2
011, an increase 
of 6.2%. The increase in net interest in
come was driven by lower funding costs, wh
ich declined $319 m
illion compared to 
2011. The improvement in funding costs reflects a 25 basis point re
duction in the average cost of 
interest-bearing deposits for
 
2012 compared to the prior year
 and the 2012 redemption of all juni
or subordinated debt
 to unconsolidated 
trusts. Net interest 
income also benefited from the growth in average earning assets, 
which more than offset the negative impact of lower yields 
on new loans. 
 
FTE-adjusted NIM was 3.91% in 2012 compared with 4.06% in 
2011. The decline in the NIM primarily reflects the runoff of 
higher yielding covered loans and lower y
ields on new loans, partially offset by th
e lower funding costs described above. The 
average annualized FTE yield for 2012 fo
r the total loan portfolio 
was 5.35% compared to 5.87% for the prior year. The 
decrease was primarily due to 
the runoff of higher 
yielding covered loans and a higher 
volume of new loans originated at 
lower rates. The FTE yield on the total sec
urities portfolio was 2.64% for the year e
nded December 31, 2012, compared to 
2.67% for the prior year. The decrease re
flects a higher volume of lower yieldi
ng RMBS securities issued by GSEs. 
 
The average rate paid on interest-bearing deposits dropped 
to 0.43% during 2012 from 0.68
% in 2011. This improvement 
was a result of lower rates on interest-b
earing deposits, including a 56 basis point reduction in the cost of certificates and 
other time deposits and a 13 basis point reduction 
in the cost of money market and savings accounts. 
 
The rates paid on average short-term borrowings declined from 0.27% in 2011 to 0.26% during 2012. At December 31, 2012, 
the targeted Federal funds rate was a range of zero percent to 0.
25%. The average rate on long
-term debt during 2012 was 
3.02%, a decrease of 38 basis points compared to the prior ye
ar. This reduction was primarily due to the redemption of all 
higher cost junior subordinated debt to unconsolidated trusts during 2012 and the related benefit associated with accelerated 
amortization of derivatives that were
 unwound in a gain position. 
 
Covered Assets and FDIC Loss Share Receivable/Payable 
 
In connection with the Colonial ac
quisition, Branch Bank entered into loss shar
ing agreements with th
e FDIC that outline the 
terms and conditions under which the FDIC will reimburse Branch 
Bank for a portion of the loss
es incurred on certain loans, 
OREO, certain investment securities and other assets (collec
tively, ﬁcovered assetsﬂ). The FDI
C™s obligation to reimburse 
Branch Bank for losses w
ith respect to covered a
ssets began with the first dollar of loss 
incurred. The loss sharing agreement 
applicable to single family residential mortga
ge loans expires in 2019. 
The loss sharing agreement a
pplicable to commercial 
loans and other covered assets expires in the third quarter of
 2014; however, Branch Bank must reimburse the FDIC for gains 
and recoveries, net of related expenses, through the third qu
arter of 2017. The co
mmercial loss sharing agreement calls for 
Branch Bank to sell all remaining loans,
 foreclosed property and any related deficiency agreements/rights during the eighth 
year of the agreement. The following ta
ble presents the carrying amount of assets
 covered by each loss share agreement: 
 
Table 8
Covered Assets by Loss Share Agreement 
December 31, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Commercial 
 
 Single Family  
 
 Total  
 
 
 
 
 (dollars in millions)  
 
 
Loans and leases 
$
 1,263 
$ 
 772 
 
$
 2,035 
 
 
AFS securities 
 
 1,393 
 
 

   
 
 
 1,393 
 
 
Other assets 
 
 124 
 
 39 
 
 
 163 
 
 
 
Total covered assets 
$
 2,780 
$ 
 811 
 
$
 3,591 
 
 
  
41 
 
The terms of the loss sharing agreem
ent with respect to certain
 non-agency MBS provide that Branch Bank will be 
reimbursed by the FDIC for 95% of any and all losses incurred 
through the third quarter of 2014. For other covered assets, 
the FDIC will reimburse Branch Bank for 
(1) 80% of net losses incurre
d up to $5 billion and (2) 
95% of net losses in excess 
of $5 billion. BB&T does not expect cumulative net losses to exceed $5 billion on the respective covered assets. Gains and 
recoveries on covered assets, net of related expenses, will offset 
losses, or be paid to the FDIC,
 at the applicable loss share
 
percentage at the time of recovery. Following
 the conclusion of the 10 year loss sh
are period in 2019, should actual aggregate 
losses, excluding securities, be less than an amount determined in accordance with these agreements, BB&T will pay the 
FDIC a portion of the difference. As of December 31, 2013, BB&
T projects that in 2019 Branch Bank would owe the FDIC 
approximately $147 million under the aggre
gate loss calculation. As described below, this liability is expensed over time and 
BB&T has recognized total expense of approximately $104 million through December 31, 2013.  
 
The fair value of the net reimbursement the Company expected to receive from the FDIC under these agreements was 
recorded as the FDIC loss share receivable at the date of acquisition. The fair value of the FDIC loss share receivable/payable
 
was estimated using a discount
ed cash flow methodology. 
 
Acquired loans were aggregated into separate pools based up
on common risk characteristics. Each pool is considered a unit 
of account and the cash flows expected to be collected, credit losses and other relevant information are developed for each 
pool. A summary of the accounting treatment r
elated to changes in credit losses on each
 loan pool and the related FDIC loss 
share asset follows. 
 

 
If the estimated credit loss on a loan pool is increased: 
 
o
 
The reduction in the net present value of the loan pool
 is recognized immediately as provision expense and an 
increase to the ALLL. 
 
o
 
The FDIC loss share asset is increased by 80% 
of the adjustment to th
e ALLL through income. 
 

 
If the estimated credit loss on a loan pool is reduced: 
 
o
 
If the loan pool has an allowance, the allowance is first 
reduced to $0 (and 80% of this reduction decreases the 
FDIC loss share asset) through income. 
 
o
 
If the loan pool does not have an 
allowance (or it is first reduced to $0
 and there remains additional expected 
cash flows), the excess of expected cash flows is recognized as a yield adjustment over the remaining expected 
life of the loan. 
 
o
 
The decrease in expected reimbursement from the FDIC is
 recognized in income prospectively using a level 
yield methodology over the remaining life of the loss share agreements. 
 
o
 
The increase in the amount expected to be paid to the FDIC as a result of the aggregate loss calculation is 
recognized prospectively
 in proportion to expected 
loan income over the rema
ining life of the loss share 
agreements.  
 
The accounting treatment for covered securities is summarized below:  
 

 
Prior to the recognition of OTTI on a covered security: 
 
o
 
The purchase discount established at acquisition is accreted into income over the expected life of the underlying 
securities using a level yield methodology. 
 
o
 
Changes to the expected life of the securities are r
ecognized with a cumulative ad
justment to the accretion 
recognized. 
 

 
Subsequent to recognition of OTTI, which is determined us
ing the same methodology that
 is applied to non-covered 
securities, an increase in expected cash 
flows is recognized as a 
yield adjustment over the remaining expected life of 
the security based on an evaluation of the nature of the increase. 
 

 
The income statement effect of the above items is offset 
by the applicable loss share pe
rcentage in FDIC loss share 
income, net, which cumulatively resulted in a liability of $190 million as of December 31, 2013. 
 
  
42 
 

 
Covered securities are classified as AFS and carried at fair market value. The changes in unrealized gains/losses are 
offset by the applicable loss share percentage in AOCI, which resulted in a liability of $375 million as of December 
31, 2013. 
 

 
BB&T would only owe these amounts to the FDIC if BB&T were to sell these securities prior to the third quarter of 
2017. BB&T has no current intent to dispose of the covered securities. 
 
The following table provides the carryin
g amount and estimated fair value of th
e components of the FDIC loss share 
receivable (payable): 
 
Table 9
FDIC Loss Share Receivable (Payable) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
2012 
 
 
 
 
 
Carrying Amount
Fair Value 
Carrying Amount 
 
Fair Value 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Covered loans 
$
 843 
$
 464 
$
 1,106 
 
$
 751 
 
 
Covered securities 
 
 (565)
 
 (521)
 
 (553)
 
 
 (502)
 
 
Aggregate loss calculation 
 
 (104)
 
 (131)
 
 (74)
 
 
 (100)
 
 
 
Total 
$
 174 
$
 (188)
$
 479 
 
$
 149 
 
 
The decrease in the carrying amount attributable to covered loans was due to the receipt of cash from the FDIC and negative 
accretion due to the credit loss improvement, partially reduced by the offset to the provision for covered loans and the 
FDIC™s share of losses on foreclosed property. The change in the carrying amount attributable to covered securities was due 
to the offsets to the accretion of the discount and the amount of changes in unrealized gains of covered securities. The change
 
in the carrying amount attributable to the aggregate loss calcula
tion is primarily due to accre
tion of the expected payment, 
which is included in ﬁAccretion due to cr
edit loss improvementﬂ be
low. The fair values were 
based upon a discounted cash 
flow methodology that was consistent with 
the acquisition date methodology. The fair 
value attributable to covered loans and 
the aggregate loss calculation changes over time due to the receipt of cash from the FDIC, updated credit loss assumptions 
and the passage of time. The fair value attributable to covered securities was based upon the timing and amount that would be 
payable to the FDIC should they settle at the current fair
 value at the conclusion of
 the loss share agreement. 
 
The following table provid
es information related to the income statement 
impact of covered loans and securities and the 
FDIC loss sharing receivable/payable. The table excludes all amounts related to other assets acquired and liabilities assumed 
in the acquisition. 
 
Table 10
Revenue, Net of Provision, Impact from Covered Assets 
 
 
 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 2013 
 
 2012  
 
2011  
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Interest income-covered loans 
$
 451 
$ 
 765 
 
$
 1,053 
 
 
Interest income-covered securities 
 
 137 
 
 172 
 
 
 168 
 
 
 
Total interest income 
 
 588 
 
 937 
 
 
 1,221 
 
 
Provision for covered loans 
 
 (5)
 
 (13)
 
 
 (71)
 
 
OTTI for covered securities 
 
 

   
 
 (4)
 
 
 

   
 
 
FDIC loss share income, net 
 
 (293)
 
 (318)
 
 
 (289)
 
 
Adjusted net revenue 
$
 290 
$ 
 602 
 
$
 861 
 
FDIC loss share income, net: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Offset to provision for covered loans 
$
 4 
$ 
 11 
 
$
 57 
 
 
Accretion due to credit loss improvement 
 
 (255)
 
 (271)
 
 
 (297)
 
 
Offset to OTTI for covered securities 
 
 

   
 
 3 
 
 
 

   
 
 
Accretion for securities 
 
 (42)
 
 (61)
 
 
 (49)
 
 
 
Total 
$
 (293)
$ 
 (318)
 
$
 (289)
 
 
  
43 
 
2013 compared to 2012 
 
Interest income for 20
13 on covered loans an
d securities acquired in the Colonial 
acquisition decreased $349 million 
compared to 2012, primarily due to lower average covered loan balances. The yield on covered loans for 2013 was 16.93% 
compared to 18.91% in 2012. At December 31, 2013, the accretable yield balance on covered loans was $538 million. 
Accretable yield represents the excess of expe
cted future cash flows above the current net carrying amount of loans and will 
be recognized in income over the remaining life of the covered loans. 
 
During 2013, BB&T increased the accretable yield balance on covered loans by $107 million, compared to a $72 million 
reduction in 2012, primarily due to improved lo
ss results in 2013 and change
s in the expected lives of
 the underlying loans in 
2012. These adjustments ar
e recognized on a prospectiv
e basis over the remaining 
lives of the loan pools. 
 
The provision for covered loans was $5 
million in 2013, a decrease of $8 million compared to 2012. This decrease resulted 
from the quarterly reassessment process. 
 
FDIC loss share income, net, was $25 million better than 20
12, primarily due to securities duration adjustments that 
increased the expected lives of securities 
in 2013, compared to du
ration adjustments that short
ened the lives in 2012. 
 
2012 compared to 2011 
 
Interest income for 20
12 on covered loans an
d securities acquired in the Colonial 
acquisition decreased $284 million 
compared to 2011, primarily due to lower average covered loan balances. The yield on covered loans for 2012 was 18.91% 
compared to 19.15% in 2011. At December 31, 2012, the accretable yield balance on covered loans was $881 million. 
Accretable yield represents the excess of exp
ected future cash flows above the current net carrying amount of loans and will 
be recognized in income over the remaining life of the covered loans. 
 
During 2012, BB&T reduced the 
accretable yield balance on covered loans by 
$72 million primarily due to changes in the 
expected lives of the underlying loans. During 2011, BB&T 
reclassified $379 million from 
the nonaccretable balance to 
accretable yield on covered loans. This reclassification was primarily the result of increased cash flow estimates resulting 
from improved loss expectations.  
 
The provision for covered loans was $13 million in 2012, a decrease of $58 million compared to 2011. This decrease resulted 
from the quarterly reassessment process. 
 
FDIC loss share income, net was $29 million 
worse than 2011 primarily due to a lo
wer offset to the provision for covered 
loans. 
 
FTE Net Interest Income and Rate / Volume Analysis 
 
The following table sets forth th
e major components of ne
t interest income and the related yi
elds and rates fo
r 2013, 2012 and 
2011, as well as the variances between th
e periods caused by changes in interest rates versus changes in volumes. Changes 
attributable to the mix of assets and liabilities have been allo
cated proportionally between the 
changes due to rate and the 
changes due to volume. 
  
 
Table 11
FTE Net Interest Income and Rate / Volume Analysis (1) 
Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013 vs. 2012 
2012 vs. 2011 
 
 
 
 
  
Average Balances 
Yield/Rate 
 
Income/Expense 
Increase 
Change due to 
Increase 
Change due to 
 
 
 
 
  
2013 
2012  
2011  
2013 
2012  
 
2011  
 
2013 
2012  
2011  
(Decrease)
Rate 
Volume
(Decrease)
Rate 
Volume
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions) 
Assets 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total securities, at amortized cost: (2) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Treasuries 
$
 502 
$
 272 
$
 112 
 0.42 
%
 0.22 
% 
 
 0.25 
% 
 
$ 
 2 
$
 1 
$
 

   
$
 1 
$
 

   
$
 1 
$
 1 
$
 

   
$
 1 
 
GSEs 
 
 5,016 
 
 1,329 
 
 176 
 2.04 
 
 1.92 
 
 
 2.33 
 
 
 
 103 
 
 25 
 
 4 
 
 78 
 
 2 
 
 76 
 
 21 
 
 (1)
 
 22 
 
MBS issued by GSE 
 
 27,598 
 
 30,848 
 
 25,305 
 2.00 
 
 2.02 
 
 
 1.86 
 
 
 
 552 
 
 624 
 
 472 
 
 (72)
 
 (6)
 
 (66)
 
 152 
 
 43 
 
 109 
 
States and political subdivisions 
 
 1,836 
 
 1,851 
 
 1,895 
 5.80 
 
 5.83 
 
 
 5.72 
 
 
 
 107 
 
 108 
 
 109 
 
 (1)
 
 (1)
 
 

   
 
 (1)
 
 2 
 
 (3)
 
N
on-agency MBS 
 
 283 
 
 346 
 
 528 
 5.69 
 
 5.76 
 
 
 6.72 
 
 
 
 16 
 
 20 
 
 35 
 
 (4)
 
 

   
 
 (4)
 
 (15)
 
 (5)
 
 (10)
 
Other 
 
 470 
 
 505 
 
 658 
 1.45 
 
 1.65 
 
 
 1.55 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 8 
 
 10 
 
 (1)
 
 

   
 
 (1)
 
 (2)
 
 1 
 
 (3)
 
Covered 
 
 1,067 
 
 1,183 
 
 1,249 
 12.82 
 
 14.53 
 
 
 13.46 
 
 
 
 137 
 
 172 
 
 168 
 
 (35)
 
 (19)
 
 (16)
 
 4 
 
 13 
 
 (9)
 
 
Total securities 
 
 36,772 
 
 36,334 
 
 29,923 
 2.51 
 
 2.64 
 
 
 2.67 
 
 
 
 924 
 
 958 
 
 798 
 
 (34)
 
 (24)
 
 (10)
 
 160 
 
 53 
 
 107 
Other earning assets (3) 
 
 2,412 
 
 3,359 
 
 3,207 
 1.39 
 
 0.91 
 
 
 0.62 
 
 
 
 34 
 
 31 
 
 20 
 
 3 
 
 13 
 
 (10)
 
 11 
 
 10 
 
 1 
Loans and leases, net of unearned income: (4)(5) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial 
 
 38,206 
 
 36,966 
 
 34,153 
 3.63 
 
 3.96 
 
 
 4.23 
 
 
 
 1,386 
 
 1,464 
 
 1,446 
 
 (78)
 
 (126)
 
 48 
 
 18 
 
 (96)
 
 114 
 
 
CRE-other 
 
 11,418 
 
 10,779 
 
 11,139 
 3.69 
 
 3.81 
 
 
 3.81 
 
 
 
 421 
 
 411 
 
 425 
 
 10 
 
 (13)
 
 23 
 
 (14)
 
 

   
 
 (14)
 
 
CRE-residential ADC 
 
 1,087 
 
 1,665 
 
 2,769 
 4.34 
 
 3.76 
 
 
 3.51 
 
 
 
 47 
 
 63 
 
 97 
 
 (16)
 
 9 
 
 (25)
 
 (34)
 
 7 
 
 (41)
 
Direct retail lending 
 
 15,952 
 
 15,270 
 
 13,850 
 4.64 
 
 4.87 
 
 
 5.22 
 
 
 
 741 
 
 744 
 
 722 
 
 (3)
 
 (35)
 
 32 
 
 22 
 
 (50)
 
 72 
 
Sales finance  
 
 8,658 
 
 7,680 
 
 7,202 
 3.18 
 
 3.97 
 
 
 4.88 
 
 
 
 275 
 
 305 
 
 352 
 
 (30)
 
 (66)
 
 36 
 
 (47)
 
 (69)
 
 22 
 
Revolving credit  
 
 2,303 
 
 2,217 
 
 2,106 
 8.56 
 
 8.41 
 
 
 8.77 
 
 
 
 197 
 
 186 
 
 185 
 
 11 
 
 3 
 
 8 
 
 1 
 
 (8)
 
 9 
 
Residential mortgage 
 
 23,598 
 
 22,623 
 
 18,782 
 4.22 
 
 4.37 
 
 
 4.80 
 
 
 
 996 
 
 989 
 
 902 
 
 7 
 
 (35)
 
 42 
 
 87 
 
 (86)
 
 173 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 
 10,468 
 
 9,525 
 
 8,280 
 10.20 
 
 11.04 
 
 
 11.51 
 
 
 
 1,068 
 
 1,051 
 
 953 
 
 17 
 
 (83)
 
 100 
 
 98 
 
 (40)
 
 138 
 
 
Total loans and leases held for investment (excluding covered loans) 
 
 111,690 
 
 106,725 
 
 98,281 
 4.59 
 
 4.88 
 
 
 5.17 
 
 
 
 5,131 
 
 5,213 
 
 5,082 
 
 (82)
 
 (346)
 
 264 
 
 131 
 
 (342)
 
 473 
 
Covered loans 
 
 2,667 
 
 4,045 
 
 5,498 
 16.93 
 
 18.91 
 
 
 19.15 
 
 
 
 451 
 
 765 
 
 1,053 
 
 (314)
 
 (74)
 
 (240)
 
 (288)
 
 (13)
 
 (275)
 
 
Total loans and leases held for investment 
 
 114,357 
 
 110,770 
 
 103,779 
 4.88 
 
 5.40 
 
 
 5.91 
 
 
 
 5,582 
 
 5,978 
 
 6,135 
 
 (396)
 
 (420)
 
 24 
 
 (157)
 
 (355)
 
 198 
 
LHFS 
 
 3,170 
 
 2,963 
 
 2,183 
 3.59 
 
 3.42 
 
 
 3.75 
 
 
 
 114 
 
 101 
 
 82 
 
 13 
 
 5 
 
 8 
 
 19 
 
 (8)
 
 27 
 
 
Total loans and leases 
 
 117,527 
 
 113,733 
 
 105,962 
 4.85 
 
 5.35 
 
 
 5.87 
 
 
 
 5,696 
 
 6,079 
 
 6,217 
 
 (383)
 
 (415)
 
 32 
 
 (138)
 
 (363)
 
 225 
 
 
Total earning assets 
 
 156,711 
 
 153,426 
 
 139,092 
 4.25 
 
 4.61 
 
 
 5.06 
 
 
 
 6,654 
 
 7,068 
 
 7,035 
 
 (414)
 
 (426)
 
 12 
 
 33 
 
 (300)
 
 333 
 
 
N
onearning assets 
 
 24,551 
 
 25,208 
 
 23,874 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total assets 
$
 181,262 
$
 178,634 
$
 162,966 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Liabilities and Shareholders™ Equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest-bearing deposits: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest-checking 
$
 19,305 
$
 19,904 
$
 18,614 
 0.08 
 
 0.12 
 
 
 0.16 
 
 
 
 15 
 
 25 
 
 30 
 
 (10)
 
 (9)
 
 (1)
 
 (5)
 
 (7)
 
 2 
 
Money market and savings 
 
 48,640 
 
 46,927 
 
 41,287 
 0.13 
 
 0.18 
 
 
 0.31 
 
 
 
 64 
 
 85 
 
 129 
 
 (21)
 
 (24)
 
 3 
 
 (44)
 
 (60)
 
 16 
 
Certificates and other time deposits 
 
 26,006 
 
 31,647 
 
 28,825 
 0.85 
 
 1.01 
 
 
 1.57 
 
 
 
 221 
 
 319 
 
 453 
 
 (98)
 
 (46)
 
 (52)
 
 (134)
 
 (175)
 
 41 
 
Foreign office deposits - interest-bearing 
 
 672 
 
 214 
 
 647 
 0.08 
 
 0.11 
 
 
 (0.37)
 
 
 
 1 
 
 

   
 
 (2)
 
 1 
 
 

   
 
 1 
 
 2 
 
 1 
 
 1 
 
 
Total interest-bearing deposits 
 
 94,623 
 
 98,692 
 
 89,373 
 0.32 
 
 0.43 
 
 
 0.68 
 
 
 
 301 
 
 429 
 
 610 
 
 (128)
 
 (79)
 
 (49)
 
 (181)
 
 (241)
 
 60 
Federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
short-term borrowed funds 
 
 4,459 
 
 3,408 
 
 5,189 
 0.16 
 
 0.26 
 
 
 0.27 
 
 
 
 7 
 
 9 
 
 14 
 
 (2)
 
 (4)
 
 2 
 
 (5)
 
 (1)
 
 (4)
Long-term debt 
 
 19,301 
 
 20,651 
 
 22,257 
 3.03 
 
 3.02 
 
 
 3.40 
 
 
 
 584 
 
 624 
 
 757 
 
 (40)
 
 2 
 
 (42)
 
 (133)
 
 (81)
 
 (52)
 
 
Total interest-bearing liabilities 
 
 118,383 
 
 122,751 
 
 116,819 
 0.75 
 
 0.86 
 
 
 1.18 
 
 
 
 892 
 
 1,062 
 
 1,381 
 
 (170)
 
 (81)
 
 (89)
 
 (319)
 
 (323)
 
 4 
 
 
N
oninteres
t
-bearing deposits 
 
 33,932 
 
 28,925 
 
 22,945 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other liabilities 
 
 7,057 
 
 7,481 
 
 5,935 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shareholders™ equity 
 
 21,890 
 
 19,477 
 
 17,267 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total liabilities and shareholders™ equity 
$
 181,262 
$
 178,634 
$
 162,966 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Average interest rate spread 
 
 
 
 3.50 
%
 3.75 
% 
 
 3.88 
% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
IM/ net interest income 
 
 
 
 
 
 3.68 
%
 3.91 
% 
 
 4.06 
% 
 
$ 
 5,762 
$
 6,006 
$
 5,654 
$
 (244)
$
 (345)
$
 101 
$
 352 
$
 23 
$
 329 
Taxable-equivalent adjustment 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
$ 
 146 
$
 149 
$
 147 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) 
Yields are stated on a taxable equivalent basis assuming tax rates in effect for the periods presented.  
(2) 
Total securities include AFS and HTM securities. 
(3) 
Includes Federal funds sold, securities purchased under resale agreements or similar arrangements, interest-bearing deposits wi
th banks, trading securities, FHLB stock and other earning assets.  
(4) 
Loan fees, which are not material for any of the periods shown, have been included for rate calculation purposes.  
(5) 
N
onaccrual loans have been included in the average balances.  
44 
  
45 
 
 
Provision for Credit Losses 
 
2013 compared to 2012 
 
The provision for credit losses recorded by BB&T in 2013 was $592
 million, a decrease of $465 million, or 44.0%, compared 
to the prior year. The 2013 provision fo
r credit losses included $5 million related to
 covered loans, compared to $13 million 
in 2012. The decrease in the provision for 
credit losses reflected continue
d improvement in credit tr
ends and outlook, as net 
charge-offs in 2013 decreased 38.8% compared to the prior year. Improving credit conditions also resulted in an increase in 
the ratio of the ALLL to net charge-offs, which increased to 2.19x for 2013, compared to 1.56x for 2012.  
 
Net charge-offs were 0.67% of average loans and leases (and 0.67% 
excluding covered loans) fo
r 2013, compared to 1.14% 
of average loans and leases (or 1.15% excluding covered loans) during 2012. Net charge-offs decreased in nearly all loan 
portfolios, including decreases in the CRE-residential ADC, CRE
-other and direct retail lending
 portfolios of
 83.2%, 70.8% 
and 41.5%, respectively.  
 
2012 compared to 2011 
 
The provision for credit losses r
ecorded by BB&T in 20
12 was $1.1 billion, a decrease of
 $133 million, or 11.2%, compared 
to 2011. Included in the 2012 provision for credit losses was $13 million related to covered loans, compared to $71 million in 
2011. The decrease in the provision for cred
it losses during 2012 comp
ared to 2011 was primarily due to improving credit 
trends and outlook, as net charge-offs in 2012 decreased 22.0% compared to 2011. Improving credit conditions also resulted 
in an increase in the ratio of the ALLL to net charge-offs, wh
ich increased to 1.56x
 for 2012 compared
 to 1.36x for 2011. 
 
Net charge-offs were 1.14% of average loans and leases 
(or 1.15% excluding covered loans) for 2012 compared to 1.57% of 
average loans and leases (or 1.59% excludi
ng covered loans) during
 2011. Net charge-offs 
for 2011 included $87 million 
related to the transfer and sale of residen
tial mortgage loans in the s
econd quarter. Excluding th
e charge-off related to this 
transfer, net charge-offs were 1.50% of average loans and leases for 2011. The largest decreases in the provision for credit 
losses for 2012 were in the residential mort
gage and CRE-residential ADC portfolios. 
 
Noninterest Income 
 
Noninterest income is a significant contri
butor to BB&T™s financial results. Manageme
nt continues to focus on diversifying 
its sources of revenue to further reduce BB&T™s reliance on traditio
nal spread-based interest in
come, as certain fee-based 
activities are a relatively stable revenue source duri
ng periods of changing interest rates. 
 
The following table provides a breakdown of noninterest income: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 12
Noninterest Income 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
% Change 
 
 
 
 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 
2013 
 
2012 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
2012 
2011 
 
vs. 2012 
 
vs. 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insurance income 
$
 1,517 
$
 1,359 
$
 1,044 
 11.6 
% 
 30.2 
%
 
 
Service charges on deposits 
 
 584 
 
 566 
 
 563 
 3.2 
 
 0.5 
 
 
 
Mortgage banking income 
 
 565 
 
 840 
 
 436 
 (32.7)
 
 92.7 
 
 
 
Investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions
 
 383 
 
 365 
 
 333 
 4.9 
 
 9.6 
 
 
 
Bankcard fees and merchant discounts 
 
 256 
 
 236 
 
 204 
 8.5 
 
 15.7 
 
 
 
Trust and investment advisory revenues 
 
 200 
 
 184 
 
 173 
 8.7 
 
 6.4 
 
 
 
Checkcard fees 
 
 199 
 
 185 
 
 271 
 7.6 
 
 (31.7)
 
 
 
Income from bank-owned life insurance 
 
 113 
 
 116 
 
 122 
 (2.6)
 
 (4.9)
 
 
 
FDIC loss share income, net 
 
 (293)
 
 (318)
 
 (289)
 (7.9)
 
 10.0 
 
 
 
Securities gains (losses), net 
 
 51 
 
 (12)
 
 62 
NM
 
 (119.4)
 
 
 
Other income 
 
 362 
 
 299 
 
 194 
 21.1 
 
 54.1 
 
 
 
 
Total noninterest income 
$
 3,937 
$
 3,820 
$
 3,113 
 3.1 
 
 22.7 
 
 
 
  
46 
 
2013 compared to 2012 
 
Noninterest income was $3.9 billion for 2013, up 3.1% compared to 2012. This increase was driven by record income 
generated by BB&T™s insurance, investme
nt banking and brokerage, bankcard fees and merchant discounts, and trust and 
investment advisory LOBs, along with st
rong growth in checkcard fees and steady 
growth in service charges on deposits. 
This growth in noninterest income was negatively im
pacted by a decrease in mortgage banking income.  
 
Income from BB&T™s insurance agency/brokerage operations was the largest source of noninterest income in 2013. 
Insurance income was up 
11.6% compared
 to 2012, with 
approximately one-half of
 the growth attributable to the acquisition 
of Crump Insurance on April 2, 2012, and the remainder prima
rily the result of an improving market for insurance premiums 
and a $13 million experience-based refund of reinsurance premiums that was received in the second quarter of 2013.  
 
Investment banking and brokerage fees 
and commissions increased $18 million, or 4.9%, compared to 2012. This increase 
was largely driven by higher investment commission income an
d increased investment banking
 activities. Bankcard fees and 
merchant discounts increased $20 million, or 8.5%, in 2013,
 based on higher retail and commercial bankcard transaction 
volumes and an increase in merchant discount income. Trust and investment advisory revenues increased $16 million, 
primarily the result of higher investment 
advisory revenues during the current y
ear. Checkcard fees were $14 million higher 
than the prior year, an increase of 7.6%, reflecting increased transaction volume, a portion of which is attributable to the 
acquisition of BankAtlantic in the prior year. Service charge
s totaled $584 million, an increase of $18 million, or 3.2%, 
compared to 2012, reflecting growth in cash management products, an increase in other deposit fees and the impact of the 
BankAtlantic acquisition. 
 
Mortgage banking income totaled $565 millio
n in 2013, a decrease of 
$275 million, or 32.7%, comp
ared to the prior year. 
The decrease in mortgage banking income includes a $247 mill
ion decrease in residential mortgage production revenues and 
a $61 million decrease in net MSR and related hedge valuation ad
justments compared to the prior year. These decreases were 
partially offset by a $12 million increase in residential mortgage
 servicing revenues, which primarily reflects growth in the 
servicing portfolio, and a $28 million decreas
e in the amortization of MSRs that was pri
marily driven by slower prepayment 
speeds. The decrease in residential mortga
ge production revenues primarily resulted 
from lower gain on sale margins, which 
reflects increased competition and a higher proportion of loans originated through the correspondent network. The weighted 
average gain on sale margin
 for 2013 was 1.15%, a 
49.2% decline compared to the prior year. Correspondent loan 
originations represented 65.1% of mortgage lo
an originations in 2013, compared to 60
.5% of mortgage loan originations in 
2012.  
 
FDIC loss share income, net reflects accretion of the FDIC loss share receivable due to credit loss improvement (including 
expense associated with the aggregate loss calculation) and accretion related to covered securities, partially reduced by the 
offset to the provision for covered loans. Covered loans ha
ve experienced better performance 
than originally anticipated, 
which has resulted in the recognition of additional interest in
come on a level yield basis ov
er the expected life of the 
corresponding loans. A si
gnificant portion of
 this increase in interest income is 
offset by a reduction in noninterest income 
recorded in FDIC loss share income. For 
2013, noninterest income was reduced by 
$255 million related to improvement in 
loan performance compared to a reduction 
of $271 million in 2012
. These decreases in income were partially offset by 
increases of $4 million and $11 milli
on, respectively, which reflected 80% of th
e provision for credit 
losses recorded on 
covered loans for 2013 and 2012. 
 
BB&T recognized $51 million in net secur
ities gains during 2013, compar
ed to $12 million of net securities losses in 2012. 
Other income increased $63 million in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily due to a $31 million gain on the sale of a consumer 
lending subsidiary in 20
13, a $22 million increase in income from operatin
g leases and a $21 million increase in income from 
assets related to certain post-employment benefits, which is offs
et in personnel expense. These increases were partially offset
 
by a $10 million decrease in client derivative related activities.  
 
2012 compared to 2011 
 
Noninterest income was $3.8 billion for 2
012, up 22.7% compared to 
2011. This increase was driven by growth in BB&T™s 
insurance, mortgage banking and investment banking and 
brokerage LOBs. In addition, bankcard fees and merchant 
discounts and other income increased compared to the prior year. These increases were partially offset by lower checkcard 
fees, a decrease in income related to 
the FDIC loss share receivable and a re
duction in net securities income.  
 
Insurance income was up 30.2% compared to 2011, primarily due to the acquisition of Crump Insurance on April 2, 2012, 
which added approximately $234 million in revenues during 2
012. The remainder of the increase in insurance income is 
attributable to the impact of other acquisitions that closed duri
ng the fourth quarter of 2011 and firming market conditions.  
 
  
47 
 
Mortgage banking income totaled $840 millio
n in 2012 compared to $436 million in 2011. The increase in mortgage banking 
income was primarily due to an increase in residential mortga
ge production revenues totaling 
$378 million, which
 was driven 
by higher gains on residential mortgage production and sales. 
Included in mortgage banking income for 2012 is a negative 
valuation adjustment of $32 million related to
 changes in assumptions for residential MSRs that are carried at fair value. 
Approximately $22 million of the d
ecline in the valuation of the residential MSRs was 
due to a revision in
 the servicing cost 
assumption based on an expectation of higher
 costs that continue to impact the indust
ry. The remainder of the net decrease is 
primarily due to the impact of an increase in OAS assumpti
on changes partially offset by prepayment speed changes, which 
are reflective of the current MSR market. This decrease was more
 than offset by gains of 
$128 million from derivative 
financial instruments used to 
manage the economic risk.  
 
Service charges on deposit accounts 
totaled $566 million in 2012, essentially flat compared to the prior year, reflecting the 
impact of pricing changes for routine services
 related to retail and commercial transac
tion deposit products, such as monthly 
maintenance fees and commercial transaction deposit products, implemented in 2012 and 2011 that were designed to offset a 
reduction in service charges that oc
curred in 2011 and 2010 as a resu
lt of a change in overdraft policies. 
 
Investment banking and brokerage fees 
and commissions increased $32 million, or 9.6%, compared to 2011. This increase 
was largely driven by a higher level of 
investment banking activities and higher br
okerage fees and commissions. Checkcard 
fees decreased $86 million, or 31.7%, due to the Durbin Amendmen
t to the Dodd-Frank Act, 
which was implemented on 
October 1, 2011 and limited the rate banks could assess for de
bit card transactions. Bankcard 
fees and merchant discounts 
increased $32 million in 2012, primarily
 the result of higher volumes for both 
retail and commercial bankcard activities.  
 
For 2012, noninterest income was reduced by $271 million related to FDIC loss share income, compared to a reduction of 
$297 million in 2011. These decreases in income were pa
rtially offset by increases of $11 million and $57 million, 
respectively, which reflected 80% of the provision for credit lo
sses recorded on covered lo
ans for 2012
 and 2011.  
 
BB&T recognized $12 million in net securities
 losses during 2012, compar
ed to $62 million of net 
securities gains in 2011. 
The net securities losses duri
ng 2012 included $9 million of OTTI charges 
and $3 million of net losses realized from 
securities sales. The net securities gains during 2011 included 
$174 million of net gains r
ealized from securities sales and 
$112 million of OTTI charges. The OTTI charges recognized 
during 2011 were due to weak
er actual and forecasted collateral 
performance for non-agency RMBS. Refer to
 the ﬁAnalysis of Financial Conditio
n Œ Investment Activitiesﬂ section for a 
detailed discussion of strategies ex
ecuted during the years presented.  
 
Other income increased $105 million in 2012 compared to 2
011, primarily due to $149 million of losses and write-downs 
recorded in 2011 related to the sale of 
commercial NPLs. This increase was partially o
ffset by $42 million of increased write-
downs on affordable housing investments in 2012 due to revi
sed estimates and processes used to value these investments. 
 
Noninterest Expense  
 
The following table provides a breakdown of BB&T™s noninterest expense: 
 
Table 13
Noninterest Expense 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
% Change 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 
2013 
 
2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
2012 
2011 
 
vs. 2012 
 
vs. 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Personnel expense 
$
 3,293 
$
 3,125 
$
 2,727 
 5.4 
% 
 14.6 
%
 
 
Occupancy and equipment expense 
 
 692 
 
 650 
 
 616 
 6.5 
 
 5.5 
 
 
 
Loan-related expense 
 
 255 
 
 283 
 
 227 
 (9.9)
 
 24.7 
 
 
 
Professional services 
 
 189 
 
 156 
 
 174 
 21.2 
 
 (10.3)
 
 
 
Software expense 
 
 158 
 
 138 
 
 118 
 14.5 
 
 16.9 
 
 
 
Regulatory charges 
 
 143 
 
 159 
 
 212 
 (10.1)
 
 (25.0)
 
 
 
Amortization of intangibles 
 
 106 
 
 110 
 
 99 
 (3.6)
 
 11.1 
 
 
 
Foreclosed property expense 
 
 55 
 
 266 
 
 802 
 (79.3)
 
 (66.8)
 
 
 
Merger-related and restructuring charges, net 
 
 46 
 
 68 
 
 16 
 (32.4)
 
NM
 
 
 
Other expense 
 
 900 
 
 873 
 
 811 
 3.1 
 
 7.6 
 
 
 
 
Total noninterest expense 
$
 5,837 
$
 5,828 
$
 5,802 
 0.2 
 
 0.4 
 
 
 
  
48 
 
2013 compared to 2012
 
 
Personnel expense is the largest component of noninterest e
xpense and includes salaries, wages and incentives, as well as 
pension and other employee benefit cost
s. Personnel expense totaled 
$3.3 billion, an increas
e of $168 million, or 5.4%, 
compared to 2012. The increase in personnel expense includes 
an increase of $128 million in salaries and wages, which 
reflects increases related to the acquisitions of Crump Insuran
ce and BankAtlantic during 2012 and the impact of normal 
salary increases and job class changes. Other personnel expens
es increased approximately $40 
million, which included an 
increase of $22 million in post-employment benefits expense that
 is offset in other income. The remainder of the increase in 
other personnel expenses was driven by smaller increases in employment taxes and other fringe benefits. 
 
Occupancy and equipment 
expense increased $42 million, or 
6.5%, compared to 2012, with
 a portion of this increase 
attributable to the acquisitions of Crump Insurance and BankA
tlantic acquisitions in the prior year and the remainder 
attributable to increases in rent and IT-related depreciation and maintenance.  
 
Professional services expense totaled $189 million, an increase of $3
3 million compared to the prior year. This increase was 
largely driven by costs associated with systems and project-related expenses, partially offset by a decrease in legal fees.  
 
Other expense increased $27 million, or 3.1%, compared to 2
012, primarily the result of higher project-related expenses, 
increased depreciation expense related to assets used in the equi
pment finance leasing business and lower of cost or fair value
 
adjustments on certain owned real estate. These increases were 
partially offset by a decrease 
in advertising and marketing 
expenses, lower insurance-related expenses and the loss on the sale of a leveraged lease that was recorded in the prior year. 
Software expense increased $20 million compared to the prior year, which primarily reflects higher maintenance and 
depreciation expense. 
 
Foreclosed property expense includes th
e gain or loss on sale of foreclosed prop
erty, valuation adjustments resulting from 
updated appraisals and the ongoing expens
e of maintaining foreclosed properties. Foreclosed property expense decreased 
$211 million, or 79.3% in 2013, due to 
fewer losses and write-downs and lower maintenance costs on foreclosed property. 
Loan-related expense totaled $255 million, a decrease of $28 mi
llion, or 9.9% compared to the prior year. This decrease was 
primarily the result of improvements in mortgage repurchase expense and lower costs associated with certain mortgage loan 
indemnifications. 
 
Merger-related and restructuring charges were $22 million lower 
than the prior year, which reflects the impact of merger-
related charges associated with the Crum
p Insurance and BankAtlantic acquisitions 
in the prior year, partially offset by 
restructuring charges associat
ed with optimization activities in Community Banki
ng that were initiated during the second 
quarter of 2013. Regulatory charge
s decreased $16 million in 2013 due to improved
 credit quality, which led to lower deposit 
insurance premiums. 
 
Management currently expects that total noninterest expense s
hould trend lower throughout 201
4, largely driven by lower 
personnel expense, professional services and regulatory charge
s. This decrease in noninterest expense, along with an 
anticipated increase in noninterest 
income, is expected to lead to continued im
provement in the effi
ciency ratio throughout 
2014, down to the mid-fif
ties by the fourth quarter. 
 
2012 compared to 2011 
 
Total personnel expense increased 14.6% during 2012, prima
rily the result of the Crump Insurance and BankAtlantic 
acquisitions during 2012. Other factors contributing to th
is increase include normal sala
ry increases, higher production-
related incentives and commissions and other performance incen
tives and higher pension expens
e related to cer
tain changes 
in actuarial assumptions. Additional disclosu
res relating to BB&T™s benefit plans can be
 found in Note 13 ﬁBenefit Plansﬂ in 
the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements.ﬂ 
 
Occupancy and equipment 
expense increased $34 million, or 
5.5%, compared to 2011, primarily due to the acquisitions of 
Crump Insurance and BankAtlantic.  
 
Loan-related expense totaled $283 million, 
an increase of $56 million compared to th
e prior year. This increase was primarily 
the result of higher investor-owned loan expense and 
provisions for higher mortgage repurchase reserves.  
 
Foreclosed property expense decreased $536
 million, or 66.8% in 2012, primarily re
flecting the impact of a more aggressive 
approach to reducing the inventory of foreclosed property
 that was undertaken in the fourth quarter of 2011. 
 
  
49 
 
Regulatory charges decreased $53 million in 2012 due to improved credit quality, which led to lower deposit insurance 
premiums.  
 
Merger-related and restructuring charges increased $52 million comp
ared to the prior year as a 
result of the Crump Insurance 
and BankAtlantic acquisitions.  
 
Other expense increased $62 million compared to 2011, primar
ily the result of higher advertising expenses, an increase in 
depreciation expense related to assets under operating leases 
to customers driven by growth in BB&T™s equipment financing 
business, higher operating charge-offs in 2012 and increased
 referral fee expense. The remaining noninterest expenses 
increased a net $13 million, or 3.3%, compared to 2011.  
 
Provision for Income Taxes  
 
BB&T™s provision for income 
taxes totaled $1.4 billion, $764 million and 
$296 million for 
2013, 2012 
and 2011, 
respectively. BB&T™s effective tax rates for the years ended 2013, 2012 and 2011 were 44.7%, 27.4% and 18.2%, 
respectively. The increase in the effective tax rate for 2013 compar
ed to 2012 was primarily due
 to the adjustments totaling 
$516 million related to the previously described uncertain 
tax positions. Excluding the impa
ct of these adjustments, the 
effective tax rate for 2013 was 28.1%. The increase in the effective tax rate for 2012 compared to 2011 reflects a higher level
 
of pre-tax earnings relative to permanent income tax differences. 
 
BB&T has extended credit to and invested 
in the obligations of states and muni
cipalities and their agencies and has made 
other investments and loans that produce 
tax-exempt income. The income generated from these investments, together with 
certain other transactions that have favo
rable tax treatment, have reduced BB&T™s overall effective tax rate from the statutory
 
rate in all periods presented. 
 
Management currently expects the effective tax 
rate in the first quarter of 2014 to be similar to the effective tax rate in the
 
fourth quarter of 2013, which was 29.2%. 
 
Refer to Note 12 ﬁIncome Taxesﬂ in the 
ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statementsﬂ
 for a reconciliation of the effective tax 
rate to the statutory tax rate and a discussion 
of uncertain tax positions and other tax matters. 
 
Segment Results  
 
BB&T™s operations are divided into six re
portable business segments
. See Note 20 ﬁOperating Segmentsﬂ in the ﬁNotes to 
Consolidated Financial Statementsﬂ herein for additional disclo
sures related to BB&T™s oper
ating segments, the internal 
accounting and reporting practices used to manage these segments and financial disclosures for these segments. 
 
Fluctuations in noninterest income and noninterest expense incu
rred directly by the segments are more fully discussed in the 
ﬁNoninterest Incomeﬂ and ﬁNoninter
est Expenseﬂ sections above. 
 
2013 compared to 2012 
 
Community Banking 
 
Community Banking had a network of 1,825 
banking offices at the end of 2013, a de
crease of seven offices compared to 
December 31, 2012. The decrease in offices was driven by the closure of low volume branches, partially offset by de novo 
branch openings. Community Banking net income was $982 milli
on in 2013, an increase of $260 million, or 36.0%, 
compared to 2012.  
 
Segment net interest income totaled $3.2 b
illion in 2013, a decrease of $163 mi
llion, or 4.8%, comp
ared to 2012. The 
decrease in segment net interest 
income was primarily attributable to lower fu
nding spreads earned 
on deposits, partially 
offset by improvements in deposit mix as a result of growth in
 noninterest-bearing, money market and savings deposits, and a 
decrease in certificates of deposits.  
 
The allocated provision for loan and leas
e losses decreased $419 million, or 63.0%, reflecting improving mix due to the 
runoff of lower quality loans.  
 
Noninterest income of $1.2 billion increased
 $66 million, or 5.8%, primarily due to
 higher checkcard fees, bankcard fees, 
merchant discounts, and service charges on deposits.  
 
  
50 
 
Noninterest expense of $1.7 billion decr
eased $126 million, or 6.9%, primarily 
driven by lower fore
closed property, 
regulatory, and professi
onal services expense. 
 
In December 2013, BB&T announced the signing of an agreement to acquire 21 branches in Texas from Citibank, which 
includes $1.2 billion in deposits 
and $134 million in loans. 
 
Residential Mortgage Banking 
 
Mortgage originations totaled $3
1.6 billion in 2013, a decrease
 of $1.5 billion, or 4.5%, compar
ed to $33.1 b
illion in 2012. 
BB&T™s residential mortgage servicing port
folio, which includes both 
retained loans and loans 
serviced for third parties, 
totaled $112.8 billion at the end of 2013, an increase of 11.3%, compared to $101.4 billion at December 31, 2012. Residential 
Mortgage Banking net income was $284 million in 2013, a decrease of $83 million, or 22.6%, compared to 2012.  
 
Segment net interest income increased $44 
million, or 11.7%, to $421 
million. The increase in se
gment net interest income 
was driven by growth in loans held for investment, which was 
partially attributable to the decision to begin retaining certain 
originated mortgage loans, and higher credit spreads to funding costs for both LHFS and loans held for investment. 
 
The allocated provision 
for loan and lease losses decreased $61 million, pr
imarily reflecting an improvement in mix due to 
the runoff of lower quality loans. N
et charge-offs of $78 million were recorded in
 2013, compared to $1
33 million in 2012, as 
nonaccrual and aged
 loans (excluding guaranteed loans) decreased during the period.  
 
Noninterest income decreased $270 milli
on, primarily driven by lower gain on
 sale margins, which reflects increased 
competition and a higher proportion of lo
ans originated through th
e correspondent network, an
d a decrease in net MSR 
valuation adjustments. 
 
Noninterest expense decreased $45 million primarily due to lo
wer pre-foreclosure and foreclos
ed property expense and lower 
expense associated with mortgage repurchase reserves. 
 
Dealer Financial Services 
 
Dealer Financial Services net income was $203 million in 2013
, a decrease of $15 million, or 6.9%, compared to 2012.  
 
Segment net interest income increased $2
7 million, primarily the result of loan 
growth and wider credit spreads in the 
Regional Acceptance Corporation portfolio
. Dealer Financial Services average loans grew by $840 million, or 8.5%, 
compared to 2012.  
 
The allocated provisio
n for loan and lease losses increased $50 million, primarily due to a more normalized volume of 
charge-offs in the Regional Acceptance Corporation portfolio after experiencing a lower charge-off volume in recent years. 
 
Specialized Lending 
 
Specialized Lending net income was $275 milli
on in 2013, an increase of $31 milli
on, or 12.7%, comp
ared to 2012.  
 
Segment net interest income decreased $10 million, or 1.8%, 
compared to 2012. During the fourth quarter, BB&T sold a 
consumer lending subsidiary that focused its business on the su
bprime consumer market. The sale of this subsidiary included 
loans totaling approximately $500 million. In 
connection with this sale transacti
on, loans totaling approximately $230 million 
were transferred to Residential Mortgage Banking. Excl
uding this sales transaction,
 Specialized Lending grew average 
balances by $925 million, or 6.7%, over 2012. This increase wa
s primarily driven by 32.3% growth in average small ticket 
consumer finance loan balances, 7.6% growth in the average 
commercial insurance premium fi
nancing portfolio, and a 7.0% 
increase in the average 
commercial finance portfolio. 
 
The allocated provision 
for loan and lease losses decreased 
$50 million, which primarily ref
lects the removal of reserves in 
connection with the sale of $500 million of consumer lending 
loans and the transfer of $230 million of consumer lending 
loans to Residential Mortgage 
Banking. Due to the 
overall higher credit risk profiles of
 Specialized Lending™s clients, loss 
rates are expected to be higher than conventional bank lending. Lo
ss rates are also affected by 
shifts in the portfolio mix of 
the underlying subsidiaries. 
 
Insurance Services 
 
Insurance Services net inco
me was $167 million in 2013, an increase of
 $24 million, or 16.8%, compared to 2012.  
  
51 
 
 
Noninterest income was $1.5 billion, an
 increase of $170 million, or 12.5%, compar
ed to 2012. The increase reflects the 
acquisition of Crump Insurance on April 2, 2012, firming mar
ket conditions for insurance pre
miums, organic growth in 
wholesale and retail property and casualty insurance operations, w
holesale life insurance growth, and an experience-based 
refund of reinsurance premiums totaling $13 million that was received in the second quarter of 2013. Wholesale property and 
casualty insurance income increased $59 million, or 15.5%, 
while retail property and casualty insurance income increased 
$36 million, or 8.1%, comp
ared to 2012. Wholesale life insurance income increased $43 million, or 34.5%, compared to 
2012, primarily attributable to 
the Crump Insurance acquisition. 
 
Higher noninterest income growth was offs
et by a $119 million increase in noninteres
t expense, primarily the result of higher 
salary costs and performance-based incentives. The increase in 
noninterest expense was partially attributable to the Crump 
Insurance acquisition in 2012. 
 
Financial Services 
 
Financial Services net income was $305 m
illion in 2013, an increase of $21 mi
llion, or 7.4%, compared to 2012.  
 
Segment net interest income for Financial Services decreased 
$2 million, to $447 million in 2013. The decrease in segment 
net interest income during 2013 was primarily attributable to a lowe
r NIM, partially offset by stro
ng organic loan growth and 
an improved deposit mix. Corpo
rate Banking™s averag
e loan balances increased by 
$1.5 billion, or 24.9%, in 2013, while 
BB&T Wealth™s average loan balance
s grew $250 million, or 21.6%, 
over the same time period. 
 
The allocated provisio
n for loan and lease losses increased $6 million to $1
9 million in 2013, primarily attributable to a $10 
million reserve release in 2012 resulting from improved credit 
trends in the commercial and 
industrial loan
 portfolio. 
 
Noninterest income for Financial Services increased $24 mil
lion, or 3.3%, to $743 million in 2013. The increase in 
noninterest income was primarily due to
 higher investment banking and brokerage
 fees and commissions and trust and 
investment advisory revenues. Client invested assets totaled $111.2 billion as of December 31, 2013, an increase of $15.0 
billion, or 15.6%, comp
ared to 2012. 
 
Noninterest expense incurred by 
Financial Services decreased $26 million, or 4.0%, 
to $617 million in 2013, primarily due to 
lower occupancy and equipment expense and an operating ch
arge-off in the prior year, partially offset by an increase in 
personnel expense.  
 
Other, Treasury & Corporate 
 
Net income in Other, Treasury & Corporate can vary due to changing needs of the Company, including the size of the 
investment portfolio, the need for wholesale funding, income received from derivatives used to hedge the balance sheet and, 
in certain cases, income associated with acquisition activities. 
 
Other, Treasury & Corporate generated a net loss of $487 million in
 2013, compared to net income of $50 million in the prior 
year. The net loss was primarily the result of $516 million in ad
justments for uncertain income 
tax positions as previously 
described. Segment net interest income de
creased $139 million primarily attributab
le to runoff in the c
overed loan portfolio. 
The $128 million increase in noninterest in
come primarily reflects the gain on the 
sale of a consumer lending subsidiary 
totaling $31 million, higher income from assets related to cer
tain post-employment benefits, higher securities gains in the 
investment portfolio, and higher FDIC loss share income. The 
$88 million increase in noninterest expense was primarily 
attributable to personnel expense related to certain post-em
ployment benefits mentioned above, and higher professional 
services, data processing software, and IT professional 
services expense related to corporate project initiatives. 
 
2012 compared to 2011 
 
Community Banking  
 
Community Banking had a network of 1,832 
banking offices at the end of 2012, an 
increase of 53 offices compared to 
December 31, 2011. The increase in offices was driven by the BankAtlantic acquisition and de novo branch openings, 
partially offset by the closin
g of low volume branches. Community Banking re
sults include BankAtlantic since the systems 
conversion in October 2012. Community Banking net income was $722 million in 2012, up $225 million, or 45.3%, 
compared to 2011. 
 
  
52 
 
Segment net interest income totaled $3.4 b
illion in 2012 compared 
to $3.5 billion in 2011. The 
decrease in segment net 
interest income was primarily attributable to lower funding credits
 on deposits as the result of declining interest rates. This
 
decrease was partially offset by loan growth and improvement in 
the deposit mix, which was the result of an increase in 
noninterest-bearing deposits and a decrease in client CDs.  
 
The allocated provision 
for loan and lease losses increased by $76 million, 
or 12.9%, to $665 million in 2012, primarily due 
to growth in loan balances, partially offset by lower charge-offs. 
 
Noninterest income increased $105 million,
 or 10.2%, to $1.1 billion in
 2012, primarily due to higher bankcard and merchant 
fees, as well as losses on commercial LHFS in the prior year. 
The increase in noninterest income was partially offset by 
lower debit interchange and ov
erdraft fees. Noninterest income allocated from
 other segments, which is reported as 
intersegment net referral fees (ﬁreferral f
eesﬂ), increased by $57 million, or 47.1% 
in 2012, driven by higher referrals for 
residential mortgage lending
 as originations grew. 
 
Noninterest expense declined $529 million,
 or 22.5%, to $1.8
 billion for 2012. This decline 
was primarily due to lower 
foreclosed property expense and regulatory charges, partially 
offset by higher net occupancy expense and personnel expense. 
Allocated corporate expense increa
sed $125 million, or 13.9%, to
 $1.0 billion in 2012, primarily
 due to increases in loan 
administration, operations and marketing expense. 
 
Residential Mortgage Banking  
 
BB&T™s mortgage originations totaled 
$33.1 billion in 2012, up 
$9.4 billion, or 39.9%, comp
ared to 2011. BB&T™s 
residential mortgage servicing po
rtfolio, which includes both retained loans and 
loans serviced for third parties, totaled 
$101.3 billion at the end of 20
12, an increase of 10.5%, comp
ared to $91.6 billion at Dece
mber 31, 2011. Residential 
Mortgage Banking net income was $367 million in 2012, compared to a net loss of $15 million in 2011. 
 
Segment net interest income incr
eased $87 million, or 30
.0%, to $377 million in 
2012. The increase in segment net interest 
income was primarily due to growth in LHFS, growth in loans 
held for investment and higher 
spreads to funding costs on 
loans held for investment. These increases in segment net interes
t income were partially offset by lower spreads to funding 
costs on LHFS. 
 
The allocated provision for loan and lease losses was $95 million for 2012, down $225 million, or 70.3%, compared to $320 
million in 2011. The decrease in provision 
expense reflects improved credit quality in 
the loan portfolio, as well as the sale 
of 
NPLs in the second quarter of 2011, which resulted in higher ch
arge-offs. Net charge-offs of $133 million were recorded in 
2012 compared to $264 million in 2011. 
 
Noninterest income increased from $351 mill
ion in 2011 to $754 million in 2012. This increase was primarily due to higher 
mortgage loan production and sales and 
higher margins than in the prior year. 
 
Noninterest expense increased $92 million,
 or 31.0%, to $389
 million in 2012, reflecting higher loan-related and personnel 
expenses. The increase in loan-related expense was driven by an increase in the loan repurchase reserve. The increase in 
personnel expense was driven by a higher number of employ
ees and incentives related to
 the increased production. 
 
Dealer Financial Services  
 
Dealer Financial Services net income was $218 million in 20
12, an increase of $9 million, or 4.3%, compared to 2011. 
 
Segment net interest income incr
eased $66 million, or 11
.3%, to $648 million in 
2012. The increase in segment net interest 
income was primarily due to loan growth and an improved NIM in Regional Acceptance Corporation™s point-of-sale loan 
portfolio. 
 
The allocated provisio
n for loan and lease losses increased $39 million, or 
31.2%, in 2012, primarily due to increases in 
Regional Acceptance Corporation™s ALLL related to nonprime auto loans as delinquent accounts and NPAs move from 
historical lows to more normalized levels.  
 
Specialized Lending  
 
Specialized Lending net income was $244 mil
lion in 2012, an increase of $9 mill
ion, or 3.8%, co
mpared to 2011. 
 
  
53 
 
Net interest income increased $97 million, or 20.9%, to $562 mi
llion in 2012. This increase was primarily due to strong loan 
growth by Sheffield Financial as the result of dealer volu
me growth and expanded deal
er relationships. Additionally, 
Mortgage Warehouse Lending benefited from increased market pene
tration, higher commitment levels and higher line usage, 
while Lendmark and Equipment Finance realized higher NIM. Av
erage loans for Specialized Lendi
ng grew by $2.0 billion, 
or 15.6%, to $14.8 billion in 2012.  
 
The allocated provisio
n for loan and lease losses increased $63 million, or 87.5%, in 2012. The increase in provision expense 
was primarily due to higher charge-offs in
 the consumer lending subsidiary and adju
stments to loss fact
ors resulting from an 
acceleration of certain consumer loan charge-offs in the third quarter of 2012. Due to the overall higher credit risk profiles 
of 
Specialized Lending™s clients, loss rates are expected to be
 higher than conventional bank lending. Loss rates are also 
affected by shifts in the portfolio 
mix of the underlying subsidiaries. 
 
Noninterest income increased $18 million, or 8.5%, to $229 million in 2012. The increase in noninterest income was driven 
by higher operating lease income and gains on sale of finan
ce lease equipment by Equipment Finance, as well as higher 
commercial finance and commercial mortgage banking fees.  
 
Noninterest expense increased $26 million, 
or 11.2%, to $259 million.
 The increase in noninterest expense was driven by 
higher depreciation on property leased to customers by Equipm
ent Finance, higher loan referr
al fees paid by Sheffield 
Financial and higher personnel expense.  
 
Insurance Services 
 
Insurance Services net income 
was $143 million in 2012, an
 increase of $41 million, or 40.2%, compared to 2011. The 
increase in net income was driven by acquisitions and improv
ing premium pricing in the prop
erty and casualty insurance 
business. 
 
Noninterest income increased $324 milli
on, or 31.1%, to $1.4 billion.
 The increase in noninter
est income was primarily 
driven by higher life insurance, proper
ty and casualty insurance and employee benefits commissions. The life insurance and 
property and casualty operations of Crum
p Insurance, which was acquired on A
pril 2, 2012, contributed $234 million of 
insurance income. Property and casualty in
surance commission growth was partially attr
ibutable to improvement in premium 
pricing compared to the prior year. Em
ployee benefits commission growth was pri
marily due to the fourth quarter 2011 
acquisitions of Precept, a full-service employee benefits consu
lting and administrative solutions 
firm with offices in Irvine 
and San Ramon, California and Liberty Benefit Insurance Servi
ces, a full-service employee benefits broker located in San 
Jose, California. 
 
Noninterest expense increased $230 million,
 or 29.3%, in 2012. The increase in noni
nterest expenses was primarily due to the 
Crump Insurance acquisition and related personnel expens
e, occupancy expense and amortization of intangibles. 
 
Financial Services  
 
Financial Services net income was $284 million in 
2012, up $20 million, or 7.
6%, compared to 2011. 
 
Segment net interest income incr
eased $91 million, or 25
.4%, to $449 million in 
2012. The increase in segment net interest 
income during 2012 was primarily attribut
able to strong organic loan and depos
it growth by Corporate Banking and BB&T 
Wealth, partially offset by a lower NIM for both businesses. 
 
The allocated provision for loan and lease losses increased $14 million to $13 million in 2012 as the result of changes in the 
composition of the commercial and industrial loan portfoli
o, combined with overall 
growth in the portfolio.  
 
Noninterest income increased $36 million, or 5.3%, to $719 million in 2012. The increase in noninterest income was 
primarily due to higher investment banking and brokerage fees
 and commissions, trust and investment advisory revenues and 
commercial loan fees. 
 
Noninterest expense increased $68 million, or
 11.8%, to $643 million in
 2012, primarily due to hi
gher personnel expense and 
intercompany expense. The increase in noninterest expense in 
2012 was driven by continued 
efforts to expand the national 
lending teams in Corporate Banking and by the associated increase
s in incentive expenses tied to the strong income growth in 
the LOBs. 
 
  
54 
 
Other, Treasury & Corporate 
 
Net income in Other, Treasury & Corporate can vary due to changing needs of the Company, including the size of the 
investment portfolio, the need for wholesale funding, income received from derivatives used to hedge the balance sheet and, 
in certain cases, income associated with acquisition activities. Ot
her, Treasury & Corporate™s 2012
 results reflect the income 
from BankAtlantic from the acquisition date to 
the systems conversion date in Octo
ber 2012. Other, Treasury & Corporate 
generated net income of $50 million in 2012 compared to net income of $40 million in the prior year. 
 
The increase in segment net interest income was primarily due to
 a decrease in FTP funding cred
its on deposits allocated to 
the Community Banking segment. The decrease in the allocated
 provision for loan losses was primarily the result of a decline 
in the provision for covered loans. The decr
ease in noninterest income was primarily 
due to higher securities gains in the 
prior year, increased write-downs on affordable housing inve
stments and lower FDIC loss share income. The decrease in 
allocated corporate expenses was primarily due to changes in intersegment service center allocations. 
 
Analysis of Financial Condition 
 
A review of the Company™s major balance sheet categories is presented below. 
 
Investment Activities  
 
BB&T™s investment activities are governed internally by a writte
n, board-approved policy. The 
investment policy is carried 
out by the MRLCC, which meets regularly to review the econ
omic environment and establish investment strategies. The 
MRLCC also has much broader responsibilities, which are di
scussed in the ﬁMarket Risk Managementﬂ section in 
ﬁManagement™s Discussion and Analysis of Financ
ial Condition and Results of Operationsﬂ herein. 
 
Investment strategies are revi
ewed by the MRLCC based on the interest rate
 environment, balance sheet mix, actual and 
anticipated loan demand, funding 
opportunities and the overall interest rate se
nsitivity of the Company. In general, the 
investment portfolio is managed in a 
manner appropriate to the attainment of the 
following goals: (i) 
to provide a sufficient 
margin of liquid assets to meet unanticipated
 deposit and loan fluctuations and over
all funds management objectives; (ii) to 
provide eligible securities to secu
re public funds, trust deposits as prescribed by
 law and other borrowings; and (iii) to earn
 
the maximum return on funds inves
ted that is commensurate with meeting 
the requirements of (i) and (ii). 
 
Branch Bank invests in securities as allowable under bank re
gulations. These securities may in
clude obligations of the U.S. 
Treasury, U.S. government agencies, GSEs (i
ncluding MBS), bank eligib
le obligations of any state or political subdivision, 
non-agency MBS, structured notes, bank eligible corporate obliga
tions (including corporate de
bentures), commercial paper, 
negotiable CDs, bankers acceptances, mutual funds and limited types of equity securities. Branch Bank also may deal in 
securities subject to the provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act. BB&T™s full-service brokerage and investment banking 
subsidiary engages in the underwriting, trading and sales of equ
ity and debt securities subje
ct to the risk management policies
 
of the Company. 
 
The following table prov
ides information regarding the composition of BB
&T™s AFS and HTM securities portfolio for the 
years presented: 
 
  
55 
 
Table 14
Composition of Securities Portfolio 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
2012 
 
2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
AFS securities (at fair value): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Treasury 
$
 595
$
 281 
$
 229
 
 
 
GSE 
 

  
 9 
 77
 
 
 
MBS issued by GSE 
 17,929
 20,930 
 18,132
 
 
 
States and political subdivisions 
 1,851
 2,011 
 1,923
 
 
 
N
on-agency MBS 
 291
 312 
 368
 
 
 
Other 
 45
 3 
 7
 
 
 
Covered 
 
 1,393
 
 1,591 
 
 1,577
 
 
Total AFS securities 
 
 22,104
 
 25,137 
 
 22,313
 
 
HTM securities (at amortized cost): 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Treasury 
 
 392
 
 

   
 

  
 
 
 
GSE 
 
 5,603
 
 3,808 
 500
 
 
 
MBS issued by GSE 
 
 11,636
 
 9,273 
 13,028
 
 
 
States and political subdivisions 
 
 33
 
 34 
 35
 
 
 
Other 
 
 437
 
 479 
 531
 
 
Total HTM securities 
 
 18,101
 
 13,594 
 14,094
 
 
Total securities 
$
 40,205
$
 38,731 
$
 36,407
 
 
The total securities portfolio increased $1
.5 billion, or 3.8%, in 2013. This growth 
is primarily the result of increased 
securities purchases during the fourth quar
ter of 2013, which occurred in response to
 a decrease in loan originations and to 
increase liquidity in advance of 
the new regulatory requirements. 
 
As of December 31, 2013, approximately 14.7% of the securities portfolio was variable rate. The effective duration of the 
securities portfolio was 5.5 years at December 31, 2013, compared to 2.8 years at the end of 2012. The duration of the 
securities portfolio excludes equity
 securities, auction rate securities, and certain covered non-agency MBS. 
 
MBS issued by GSEs were 73.5% of the total securities portfolio at year-end 2013. As of December 31, 2013, the AFS 
securities portfolio also includ
es $1.4 billion of securities that were acqui
red from the FDIC as part of the Colonial 
acquisition. These securities are covered by FDIC loss sharing 
agreements and include $1.1 
billion of non-agency MBS and 
$314 million of municipal securities. 
 
During 2013, managem
ent sold $2.2 
billion of securities that produced a net 
realized gain of $51 
million. In 2012, 
management sold $306
 million of securities that produced a realized loss of
 $3 million. In addition, BB&T recognized $9 
million in charges for OTTI related to certain non-a
gency MBS and covered securities during 2012. 
 
Refer to Note 2 ﬁSecuritiesﬂ in the ﬁNotes
 to Consolidated Financial Statementsﬂ herein
 for additional disclosures related to 
the evaluation of securities for OTTI.  
 
The following table presents th
e securities portfolio at December 31, 2013
, segregated by major category with ranges of 
maturities and average 
yields disclosed: 
 
  
56 
 
Table 15
Securities 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
AFS
 
HTM
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective 
 
 
 
Effective 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair Value
Yield (1) 
Amortized Cost 
 
Yield (1) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
U.S. Treasury: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Within one year 
$
 144
 0.17
%
$
 

   
 

   
%
 
 
 
One to five years 
 451
 0.26
 

   
 

   
 
 
 
Five to ten years 
 

  
 

  
 392 
 2.05 
 
 
 
 
Total 
 595
 0.24
 392 
 2.05 
 
 
GSE: 
 
 
 
Five to ten years 
 

  
 

  
 5,384 
 2.10 
 
 
 
After ten years 
 

  
 

  
 219 
 1.28 
 
 
 
 
Total 
 

  
 

  
 5,603 
 2.06 
 
 
MBS issued by GSE: (2) 
 
 
 
One to five years 
 34
 3.97
 

   
 

   
 
 
 
Five to ten years 
 4
 1.58
 

   
 

   
 
 
 
After ten years 
 17,891
 2.02
 11,636 
 2.09 
 
 
 
 
Total 
 17,929
 2.02
 11,636 
 2.09 
 
 
Obligations of states and 
political subdivisions: (3) 
 
 
 
One to five years 
 34
 6.68
 

   
 

   
 
 
 
Five to ten years 
 255
 6.43
 1 
 1.61 
 
 
 
After ten years 
 1,562
 6.67
 32 
 5.11 
 
 
 
 
Total 
 1,851
 6.64
 33 
 5.02 
 
 
N
on-agency MBS: (2) 
 
 
 
After ten years 
 291
 5.94
 

   
 

   
 
 
 
 
Total 
 291
 5.94
 

   
 

   
 
 
Other: 
 
 
 
Within one year 
 45
 0.02
 

   
 

   
 
 
 
Five to ten years 
 

  
 

  
 149 
 1.37 
 
 
 
After ten years 
 

  
 

  
 288 
 1.39 
 
 
 
 
Total 
 45
 0.02
 437 
 1.38 
 
 
Covered: 
 
 
 
One to five years 
 54
 3.59
 

   
 

   
 
 
 
Five to ten years 
 260
 3.86
 

   
 

   
 
 
 
After ten years 
 1,079
 16.76
 

   
 

   
 
 
 
 
Total 
 1,393
 13.85
 

   
 

   
 
 
 
 
 
Total securities 
$
 22,104
 3.15
 
$
 18,101 
 2.07 
 
 
(1) 
Yields represent interest computed at th
e end of the period using the effective in
terest method on an FTE basis applying 
the statutory federal income tax rate of 35% 
and the amortized cost 
of the securities.  
(2) 
For purposes of the maturity ta
ble, MBS, which are not due at a single matur
ity date, have been included in maturity 
groupings based on the contractual maturity. The expected life of MBS will differ from contractual maturities because 
borrowers may have the right to call or prepay the underly
ing mortgage loans with or without call or prepayment 
penalties. 
(3) 
Weighted-average yield excludes the effect of 
pay-fixed swaps hedging municipal securities. 
 
  
57 
 
Lending Activities  
 
The primary goal of the BB&T lending functi
on is to help clients achieve their fi
nancial goals by providing quality loan 
products that are fair to the client an
d profitable to the Company. Management believes that this purpose can best be 
accomplished by building strong, profitable client relationships over time, with BB&T becoming an important contributor to 
the prosperity and well-being of its clients. In addition to the importance placed on client knowledge and continuous 
involvement with clien
ts, BB&T™s lending process incorpor
ates the standards of a consistent company-wide credit culture 
and an in-depth local market knowledge. Furthermore, the Co
mpany employs strict underw
riting criteria governing the 
degree of assumed risk and the diversity of
 the loan portfolio in terms of type, in
dustry and geographical concentration. In 
this context, BB&T strives to meet the 
credit needs of businesses and consumers 
in its markets while pursuing a balanced 
strategy of loan profitability, lo
an growth and loan quality. 
 
 
Table 16
 
 
Quarterly Average Balances of Loans and Leases
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Three Months Ended
 
 
 
 
 
 
12/31/13
9/30/13 
6/30/13 
 
3/31/13 
 
12/31/12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Commercial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial 
$
 38,101 
$
 38,446 
$
 38,359 
$
 37,916 
$
 38,022 
 
 
 
CRE - other 
 11,494 
 11,344 
 11,411 
 11,422 
 11,032 
 
 
 
CRE - residential ADC 
 970 
 1,022 
 1,121 
 1,238 
 1,398 
 
 
Direct retail lending 
 
 15,998 
 
 16,112 
 
 15,936 
 
 15,757 
 
 15,767 
 
 
Sales finance 
 
 9,262 
 
 8,992 
 
 8,520 
 
 7,838 
 
 7,724 
 
 
Revolving credit 
 
 2,357 
 
 2,308 
 
 2,268 
 
 2,279 
 
 2,280 
 
 
Residential mortgage 
 
 23,979 
 
 23,403 
 
 23,391 
 
 23,618 
 
 23,820 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 
 10,448 
 
 11,018 
 
 10,407 
 
 9,988 
 
 10,051 
 
 
 
Total average loans and leases held for 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
investment (excluding covered loans) 
 
 112,609 
 
 112,645 
 
 111,413 
 
 110,056 
 
 110,094 
 
 
Covered 
 
 2,186 
 
 2,502 
 
 2,858 
 
 3,133 
 
 3,477 
 
 
 
Total average loans and leases held 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
for investment 
 
 114,795 
 
 115,147 
 
 114,271 
 
 113,189 
 
 113,571 
 
 
LHFS 
 
 2,206 
 
 3,118 
 
 3,581 
 
 3,792 
 
 3,532 
 
 
 
Total average loans and leases 
$
 117,001 
$
 118,265 
$
 117,852 
$
 116,981 
$
 117,103 
 
 
Average loans held for investment for the fourth quarter of 2013
 declined $352 million, or an annualized 1.2%, compared to 
the third quarter. Loan growth for the fourth quarter was negativ
ely impacted by the sale of 
a consumer lending subsidiary 
with loans totaling approximately $500 million
 early in the fourth quarter. In connectio
n with this transaction, approximately 
$230 million of loans that were previously 
reported within the other lending subsidia
ries portfolio were transferred to the 
residential mortgage loan portfolio. Excluding 
the impact of the loan sale
 described above, average 
loans held for investment 
were up 0.3% annualized compared to the prior quarter. 
 
Average residential mortgage lo
ans increased $576 million, or
 9.8% annualized, compared to 
the prior quarter. Excluding the 
estimated impact of the loan transfer described above, av
erage residential mortgage loans increased approximately 6.0% 
annualized, which primarily reflects the decision in the fourth quarter
 to retain 10 to 15 year mo
rtgage loan production in the
 
held for investment portfolio. The average sales finance portfolio increased $270 million, or 11.9% annualized, based on 
continued strength in the prime automobile lending market as de
aler floor plan financing has be
en a strategic focus. Average 
CRE Œ other loan balances were $150 million higher than the 
prior quarter, which reflects grow
th in lending related to multi-
family residential construction, office, retail and industrial clients. 
 
Average other lending subsidiaries loans decreased $570 mi
llion compared to the prior quar
ter. Excluding the estimated 
impact of the subsidiary sale and related loan transfer described 
above, average other lending su
bsidiaries loans increased by 
approximately 3.5% on an annualized basis. This increase was pri
marily driven by growth in the equipment finance and small 
ticket consumer finance portfolios, wh
ich totaled $70 million and $84 milli
on, respectively. Average commercial and 
industrial loans decreased $345 million compared to the prio
r quarter due to lower mortgage warehouse lending average 
balances. Loan growth continued to be negatively impacted by
 expected declines in the covered and CRE Œ residential ADC 
loan portfolios, wh
ich decreased $316 million 
and $52 million, respectively. 
 
  
58 
 
Primarily as a result of lower mortgage activity, management currently expects average total loans to increase in the range of 
1% to 2% annualized during the first quarter of 2014. 
 
Table 17
Variable Rate Loans (Excluding Covered and LHFS) 
 
December 31, 2013
 
Outstanding 
Balance
 
Wtd. Avg. 
Contractual 
Rate
 
 
Wtd. Avg. 
Remaining Term
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Commercial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial 
$
 28,722 
 2.58 
%
 
 2.8 
yrs
 
 
 
CRE - other 
 
 9,054 
 3.40 
 
 3.5 
 
 
 
 
CRE - residential ADC 
 
 881 
 4.56 
 
 1.0 
 
 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 
 531 
 4.15 
 
 2.1 
 
 
 
Retail: 
 
 
 
 
 
Direct retail lending (1) 
 
 5,892 
 3.58 
 
 8.3 
 
 
 
 
Revolving credit 
 
 2,029 
 9.18 
 
NM
 
 
 
 
Residential mortgage 
 
 6,758 
 3.55 
 
 25.5 
 
 
 
 
Sales finance 
 
 917 
 1.99 
 
 0.8 
 
 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 
 

   
N/A
 
N/A
 
 
 
(1) 
The weighted average remaining term for direct retail le
nding represents the remaining contractual draw period. 
Margin loans totaling $108 million ha
ve been excluded from the calculation 
of the weighted average remaining 
term because they do not have a contractual end date and are callable on demand. 
 
 
N
M - not meaningful. 
 
 
 
As of December 31, 2013, approximately 24% of the outstanding balance of variable rate residential mortgage loans is 
currently in an interest-only phase. Appr
oximately 69% of these balances will begin am
ortizing within the next three years. 
Variable rate residential mortgage loans typically reset every 12 m
onths beginning after a 3 to 10
 year fixed period, with an 
annual cap on rate changes ranging from 2% to 6%.  
 
As of December 31, 2013, the direct retail lending portfolio includes $5.2 billion of home equity lines. Approximately 66% 
of the outstanding balance of variable rate ho
me equity lines is currently in the in
terest-only phase. Less than 7% of these 
balances will begin scheduled amortization within the next three 
years. Variable rate home equity lines typically reset on a 
monthly basis. Variable rate home equity lo
ans were immaterial as of December 31, 2013. 
 
BB&T monitors the performance of its home 
equity loans and lines secured by second
 liens similar to other consumer loans 
and utilizes assumptions specific to these loans in determining the necessary ALLL. BB&T also receives notification when 
the first lien holder, whether BB&T or another financial in
stitution, has initiated foreclosu
re proceedings against the 
borrower. When notified that the 
first lien is in the process of foreclosure, 
BB&T obtains valuations to determine if any 
additional charge-offs or reserves are warranted. Th
ese valuations are updated at least annually thereafter. 
 
BB&T has limited ability to monitor 
the delinquency status of the first lien, unless 
the first lien is held or serviced by BB&T
. 
As a result, using migration assumptions that are based on 
historical experience and adjust
ed for current trends, BB&T 
estimates the volume of second
 lien positions where the first lien is delinque
nt and appropriately adjusts the ALLL to reflect 
the increased risk of loss on these cred
its. Finally, BB&T also provides additional re
serves to second lien positions when the 
estimated combined current loan to value ratio for the credit exceeds 100%. As of December 31, 2013, BB&T held or 
serviced the first lien on 37
.7% of its second lien positions. 
 
Scheduled repayments are reported in 
the maturity category in which the payment 
is due. Determinations of maturities are 
based upon contract terms. BB&T™s credit policy typically does 
not permit automatic renewal of loans. At the scheduled 
maturity date (including balloon payment date), the customer generally must request a new loan to replace the matured loan 
and execute either a new note or note modification with
 rate, terms and conditions negotiated at that time.  
 
BB&T lends to a diverse customer base that is substantially 
located within the Company™s primary market area. At the same 
time, the loan portfolio is ge
ographically dispersed throughout BB&T™s branch ne
twork to mitigate concentration risk arising 
from local and regional economic downturns. Refer to the ﬁRisk 
Managementﬂ section herein for 
a discussion of each of the 
loan portfolios an
d the credit risk management policies 
used to manage the portfolios. 
  
  
59 
 
The following table presents BB&T™s total lo
an portfolio based upon BB&T™s LOBs: 
 
Table 18
Composition of Loan and Lease Portfolio Based on LOB 
 
 
 
 
December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
2012 
2011  
 
2010  
 
2009  
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Commercial 
$
 51,118 
$
 51,017 
$
 49,165 
 
$
 48,886 
$
 49,820 
 
 
Direct retail lending 
 
 15,869 
 
 15,817 
 14,506 
 
 
 13,807 
 14,406 
 
 
Sales finance 
 
 9,382 
 
 7,736 
 7,401 
 
 
 7,050 
 6,290 
 
 
Revolving credit 
 
 2,403 
 
 2,330 
 2,212 
 
 
 2,127 
 2,016 
 
 
Residential mortgage  
 
 24,648 
 
 24,272 
 20,581 
 
 
 17,550 
 15,435 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 
 10,462 
 
 10,137 
 8,737 
 
 
 7,953 
 7,670 
 
 
 
Total loans and leases held for investment 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(excluding covered loans) 
 
 113,882 
 
 111,309 
 102,602 
 
 
 97,373 
 95,637 
 
 
Covered 
 
 2,035 
 
 3,294 
 
 4,867 
 
 
 6,194 
 
 8,019 
 
 
 
Total loans and leases held for investment 
 
 115,917 
 
 114,603 
 
 107,469 
 
 
 103,567 
 
 103,656 
 
 
LHFS 
 
 1,222 
 
 3,761 
 
 3,736 
 
 
 3,697 
 
 2,551 
 
 
 
Total loans and leases 
$
 117,139 
$
 118,364 
$
 111,205 
 
$
 107,264 
$
 106,207 
 
 
Total loans and leases were $117
.1 billion at year-end 2013, a decrease of $1.2 
billion, or 1.0%, compared to the balance at 
year-end 2012. This decrease 
was largely attributable to a $2.5 billion declin
e in LHFS compared to 
year-end 2012. This 
decline reflects a lower level of 
loan origination activity in th
e latter part of 2013 and manage
ment™s decision in the fourth 
quarter of 2013 to retain certain 10 to 15 year residential mo
rtgage loan production in the held for investment portfolio. Tota
l 
loans and leases held for investment, excluding covered loans, increased $2.6 billion in 2013, based on broad-based growth in 
the portfolio. The covered loan
 portfolio, which totaled
 $2.0 billion at year-end 2013, continued to runoff during the year, 
resulting in a decline of $1.3 billion 
compared to the prior year-end. 
 
The following tables summarize the loan portfolio based on re
gulatory classifications, which focu
ses on the underlying loan 
collateral, and differs from internal classifications presented herein
 that focus on the primary 
purpose of the loan. Covered 
loans are included in their respective categories. 
 
Table 19
Composition of Loan and Lease Portfolio 
 
 
 
 
December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
2012 
2011  
 
2010  
 
2009  
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Commercial, financial and agricultural 
$
 25,260 
$
 23,863 
$
 21,452 
 
$
 20,490 
$
 19,076 
 
 
Lease receivables 
 
 1,126 
 
 1,114 
 1,067 
 
 
 1,158 
 1,092 
 
 
Real estate-construction and land development 
 
 4,630 
 
 5,900 
 7,714 
 
 
 10,969 
 15,353 
 
 
Real estate-mortgage 
 
 65,485 
 
 65,760 
 60,821 
 
 
 57,418 
 55,671 
 
 
Consumer 
 
 19,416 
 
 17,966 
 
 16,415 
 
 
 13,532 
 
 12,464 
 
 
 
Total loans and leases held for investment 
 
 115,917 
 
 114,603 
 
 107,469 
 
 
 103,567 
 
 103,656 
 
 
LHFS 
 
 1,222 
 
 3,761 
 
 3,736 
 
 
 3,697 
 
 2,551 
 
 
 
Total loans and leases 
$
 117,139 
$
 118,364 
$
 111,205 
 
$
 107,264 
$
 106,207 
 
 
  
60 
 
Table 20
Selected Loan Maturities and Interest Sensitivity 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial,
 
Real Estate:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial
 
Construction
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and
 
and Land
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Agricultural
 
Development
 
 
Total
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Fixed Rate: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
1 year or less (1) 
$
 2,628
$
 183 
$
 2,811
 
 
 
1-5 years 
 3,075
 515 
 3,590
 
 
 
After 5 years 
 
 4,167
 
 1,014 
 
 5,181
 
 
 
 
Total 
 
 9,870
 
 1,712 
 
 11,582
 
 
Variable Rate: 
 
 
 
 
 
1 year or less (1) 
 
 4,087
 
 979 
 5,066
 
 
 
1-5 years 
 
 8,734
 
 1,431 
 10,165
 
 
 
After 5 years 
 
 2,569
 
 508 
 3,077
 
 
 
 
Total 
 
 15,390
 
 2,918 
 18,308
 
 
 
 
 
Total loans and leases (2) 
$
 25,260
$
 4,630 
$
 29,890
 
(1) 
Includes loans due on demand. 
 
(2) 
The above table excludes: 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
(i) 
consumer 
$
 19,416
 
 
(ii) 
real estate mortgage 
 65,485
 
 
(iii) 
LHFS 
 1,222
 
 
(iv) 
lease receivables 
 1,126
 
 
 
Total 
$
 87,249
 
 
Asset Quality 
 
The following discussion excludes assets 
covered by FDIC loss sharing agreements that provide for reimbursement to BB&T 
for the majority of losses incurred on those 
assets. Covered loans,
 which are considered performi
ng due to the application of 
the expected cash flows method, were $2
.0 billion at December 31, 2013 and $3
.3 billion in the prior year. Covered 
foreclosed real estate totaled $121 million and $254 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 
 
NPAs, which include foreclosed real estate, repossessions and nonaccrual loans, totaled $1.1 billion at December 31, 2013 
compared to $1.5 billion at December 
31, 2012. The decline in NPAs of $483 m
illion was driven by decreases of $445 
million in NPLs and $38 million in foreclosed property. The decline in NPLs included a $359 million reduction in the 
commercial loan portfolio and smaller
 declines in other lending subsidiaries, 
residential mortgage and direct retail lending 
totaling $35 million, $26 million and $23 million, respectively. The inventory of foreclosed real estate as of December 31, 
2013 includes land and lots totaling $1
0 million that have been held for approx
imately five months on average. The 
remaining foreclosed real estate of $61 million, which is primarily
 single family residential and 
CRE, had an average holding 
period of four months. NPAs as a percentage of loans and leases plus foreclosed property were 0.91% at December 31, 2013 
compared with 1.33% at December 31, 2012. 
 
Management expects NPAs to decline at a modest pace during the first quarter of 2014, assuming no significant economic 
deterioration during the quarter. 
 
  
  
61 
 
The following table presents the changes in NPAs during 2013 and 2012: 
 
Table 21
Rollforward of NPAs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
 
 
2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Balance at beginning of year 
$
 1,536 
 
$ 
 2,450
 
 
 
N
ew NPAs 
 
 1,583 
 
 
 2,449
 
 
 
Advances and principal increases 
 
 177 
 
 
 161
 
 
 
Disposals of foreclosed assets 
 
 (533)
 
 
 (737)
 
 
 
Disposals of NPLs (1) 
 
 (348)
 
 
 (754)
 
 
 
Charge-offs and losses 
 
 (511)
 
 
 (1,002)
 
 
 
Payments 
 
 (636)
 
 
 (669)
 
 
Transfers to performing status 
 
 (212)
 
 
 (392)
 
 
Other, net 
 
 (3)
 
 
 30
 
 
Balance at end of year 
$
 1,053 
 
$
 
 1,536
 
(1) 
Includes charge-offs and losses recorded upon sale of $73 million and $219 million for the years ended December 31, 
2013 and 2012, respectively. 
 
The following tables summ
arize asset quality information for the past five years. As more fully described below, this 
information has been adjusted to exclude past due loans that are subject to FDIC loss sharing agreements and certain 
mortgage loans guaranteed by the government: 
 

 
In accordance with regulatory reporting standards, covered loans that are contractually past due are 
reported as past due and still accruing based on the number of days past due. However, given the 
significant amount of acquired loans that are past due but still accruing due to the application of the 
expected cash flows method, BB&T has concluded that 
it is appropriate to adju
st Table 22 to exclude 
covered loans in summarizing total loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing and total loans 30-89 
days past due and still accruing. 
 

 
BB&T has also concluded that the inclusion of covered 
loans in certain asset qua
lity ratios summarized in 
Table 23 including ﬁLoans 30-89 days past due and still accruing as a percentage of total loans and leases,ﬂ 
ﬁLoans 90 days or more past due and still accruing as a percentage of total loans and leases,ﬂ 
ﬁNonperforming loans and leases as a percentage of to
tal loans and leasesﬂ and certain other asset quality 
ratios that reflect NPAs in the numerator or denominator 
(or both) results in signifi
cant distortion to these 
ratios. In addition, because loan level charge-offs related to the acquired loans are not recognized in the 
financial statements until the cumulative amounts exceed the original loss projections on a pool basis, the 
net charge-off ratio for the acquire
d loans is not consistent with the net charge-off ratio for other loan 
portfolios. The inclusion of these lo
ans in the asset quality ratios descri
bed above could result in a lack of 
comparability across quarters or years, and could negati
vely impact comparability w
ith other portfolios that 
were not impacted by acquisition accounting. BB
&T believes that the presentation of asset quality 
measures excluding covered loans and related amounts from both the numerator and denominator provides 
better perspective into underlying trends related to 
the quality of its loan portfolio. Accordingly, the asset 
quality measures in Table 23 pres
ent asset quality information both on
 a consolidated basis as well as 
excluding the covered assets and related amounts. 
 

 
In addition, BB&T has excluded mortgage loans that 
are guaranteed by the government, primarily 
FHA/VA loans, from the asset quality me
trics and ratios reflected on Tables 22 and 23, as these loans are 
recoverable through various government guarantees. In
 addition, BB&T has recorded on the balance sheet 
certain amounts related to delinquent GNMA loans servi
ced for others that BB&T has the option, but not 
the obligation, to repurchase and ha
s effectively regained control. Th
ese amounts are also excluded from 
asset quality metrics as reimbursement of insured amou
nts is proceeding in accordance with investor 
guidelines. The amount of government guaranteed mortgage loans and GNMA loans serviced for others 
that have been excluded are note
d in the footnotes to Table 22. 
 
  
62 
 
 
Table 22
 
 
Asset Quality (Excluding Covered Assets)
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013 
2012 
 
2011 
 
2010 
2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions) 
 
 
N
onaccrual loans and leases: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial 
$
 527 
$
 886 
$
 1,352 
$ 
 1,426 
$
 1,651 
 
 
Direct retail lending 
 109 
 132 
 142 
 191 
 197 
 
 
Sales finance loans 
 5 
 7 
 7 
 6 
 7 
 
 
Residential mortgage loans (1) 
 243 
 269 
 308 
 466 
 707 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 51 
 86 
 63 
 60 
 96 
 
Total nonaccrual loans and leases held for investment 
 935 
 1,380 
 1,872 
 2,149 
 2,658 
 
 
N
onaccrual LHFS 
 
 

   
 

   
 

   
 521 
 5 
 
Total nonaccrual loans and leases 
 
 935 
 1,380 
 1,872 
 2,670 
 2,663 
 
 
Foreclosed real estate (2) 
 71 
 107 
 536 
 1,259 
 1,451 
 
 
Other foreclosed property 
 47 
 49 
 42 
 42 
 58 
 
Total NPAs (1)(2) 
$
 1,053 
$
 1,536 
$
 2,450 
$ 
 3,971 
$
 4,172 
 
Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing: 
 
 
Commercial 
$
 

   
$
 1 
$
 2 
$ 
 20 
$
 7 
 
 
Direct retail lending 
 33 
 38 
 56 
 79 
 87 
 
 
Sales finance loans 
 5 
 10 
 18 
 27 
 30 
 
 
Revolving credit loans 
 10 
 16 
 17 
 20 
 25 
 
 
Residential mortgage loans (3)(4) 
 69 
 92 
 104 
 143 
 150 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 5 
 10 
 5 
 6 
 12 
 
Total loans 90 days or mo
re past due and still  
 
 
accruing (3)(4)(5) 
$
 122 
$
 167 
$
 202 
$ 
 295 
$
 311 
 
Loans 30-89 days past due: 
 
 
Commercial 
$
 45 
$
 56 
$
 121 
$ 
 315 
$
 377 
 
 
Direct retail lending 
 132 
 145 
 162 
 190 
 222 
 
 
Sales finance loans 
 56 
 56 
 75 
 95 
 126 
 
 
Revolving credit loans 
 23 
 23 
 22 
 28 
 32 
 
 
Residential mortgage loans (6)(7) 
 463 
 498 
 479 
 532 
 600 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 221 
 290 
 273 
 248 
 306 
 
Total loans 30 - 89 days past due (6)(7)(8) 
$
 940 
$
 1,068 
$
 1,132 
$ 
 1,408 
$
 1,663 
(1) Excludes nonaccrual mortgage loans that are government guaranteed totaling $55 million as of December 31, 2009. 
BB&T revised its nonaccrual policy related to FHA/VA guaranteed loans during 2010. The change in policy resulted in a 
decrease in nonaccrual mortgage loans and an increase in mortgage loans 90 days past due and still accruing of 
approximately $79 million. 
(2) Excludes covered foreclosed real estate totaling $121 million, $254 million, $378 million, $313 million and $160 million 
at December 31, 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
(3) Excludes mortgage loans guaranteed by GNMA that BB&T does 
not have the obligation to re
purchase that are 90 days 
or more past due totaling $511 million, $517 million, $426 million, $425 million and $337 million at December 31, 
2013, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
(4) Excludes mortgage loans past due 90 days or more that 
are government guaranteed totalin
g $297 million, $254 million, 
$206 million, $153 million and $8 million at December 31, 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Includes past 
due mortgage LHFS. 
(5) Excludes covered loans past due 90 days or more totaling $304 million, $442 million, $736 million, $1.1 billion and $1.4 
billion at December 31, 2013, 2012, 
2011, 2010 and 2
009, respectively. 
(6) Excludes mortgage loans guaranteed by GNMA that BB&T does no
t have the obligation to repurchase that are past due 
30-89 days totaling $4 million, $5 million, $7 million, $7 
million and $10 million at December 31, 2013, 2012, 2011, 
2010 and 2009, respectively. 
(7)  Excludes mortgage loans past due 30-89 days that 
are government guaranteed totalin
g $96 million, $96 million, $91 
million, $83 million and $23 million at December 31, 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Includes past due 
mortgage LHFS. 
(8) Excludes covered loans past due 30-89 days totaling $88 million, $135 million, $222 million, $363 million and $391 
million at December 31, 2013, 2012, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  
63 
 
 
Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing interest excluding government guaranteed loans and covered loans, totaled 
$122 million at December 31, 2013, compared with $167 million at year-end 2012, a decline of 26.9%. Loans 30-89 days 
past due, excluding government guaranteed loans and covered loans, totaled $940 million at December 31, 2013, which was a 
decline of $128 million, or 12.0%, compared to year-end 2012. Excluding government guaranteed loans and covered loans, 
BB&T™s past due asset quality metrics 
are essentially at normalized levels.  
 
Table 23
Asset Quality Ratios 
 
 
 
 
 
As Of / For The Years Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013 
2012  
2011  
 
2010  
2009  
 
 
Asset Quality Ratios (including amounts related to 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
covered loans and covered foreclosed property): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loans 30 - 89 days past due and still accruing as a 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
percentage of total loan
s and leases (1)(2) 
 0.88
%
 1.02
%
 1.22 
% 
 1.65 
%
 1.93
%
 
 
 
Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing as a
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
percentage of total loan
s and leases (1)(2) 
 0.36
 
 0.52
 
 0.84 
 
 1.34 
 
 1.60
 
 
 
 
N
onperforming loans and leases as a percentage of total
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
loans and leases 
 0.80
 
 1.17
 
 1.68 
 
 2.49 
 
 2.51
 
 
 
 
N
PAs as a percentage of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total assets  
 0.64
 
 0.97
 
 1.62 
 
 2.73 
 
 2.61
 
 
 
 
 
Loans and leases plus foreclosed property 
 1.00
 
 1.51
 
 2.52 
 
 3.94 
 
 4.02
 
 
 
 
N
et charge-offs as a percentage of average loans 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and leases (3) 
 0.67
 
 1.14
 
 1.57 
 
 2.41 
 
 1.74
 
 
 
 
ALLL as a percentage of loans and leases
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
held for investment 
 1.49
 
 1.76
 
 2.10 
 
 2.62 
 
 2.51
 
 
 
 
Ratio of ALLL to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et charge-offs (3) 
 2.19
x 
 1.56
x 
 1.36 
x 
 1.07 
x 
 1.47
x 
 
 
 
 
N
onperforming loans and leases held for investmen
t
 
 1.85
 
 1.46
 
 1.21 
 
 1.26 
 
 0.98
 
 
 
Asset Quality Ratios (excluding amounts related to 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
covered loans and covered foreclosed property): (4) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Loans 30 - 89 days past due and still accruing as a 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
percentage of total loan
s and leases (1)(2) 
 0.82
%
 0.93
%
 1.06 
% 
 1.39 
%
 1.69
%
 
 
 
Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing as a 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
percentage of total loan
s and leases (1)(2) 
 0.11
 
 0.15
 
 0.19 
 
 0.29 
 
 0.32
 
 
 
 
N
onperforming loans and leases as a percentage of total
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
loans and leases 
 0.81
 
 1.20
 
 1.76 
 
 2.64 
 
 2.71
 
 
 
 
N
PAs as a percentage of:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total assets  
 0.58
 
 0.85
 
 1.44 
 
 2.64 
 
 2.65
 
 
 
 
 
Loans and leases plus foreclosed property 
 0.91
 
 1.33
 
 2.29 
 
 3.88 
 
 4.18
 
 
 
 
N
et charge-offs as a percentage of average loans 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
and leases (3) 
 0.67
 
 1.15
 
 1.59 
 
 2.59 
 
 1.79
 
 
 
 
ALLL as a percentage of loans and leases
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
held for investment 
 1.42
 
 1.70
 
 2.05 
 
 2.63 
 
 2.72
 
 
 
 
Ratio of ALLL to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et charge-offs (3) 
 2.09
x 
 1.50
x 
 1.32 
x 
 1.01 
x 
 1.47
x 
 
 
 
 
N
onperforming loans and leases held for investmen
t
 
 1.73
 
 1.37
 
 1.13 
 
 1.19 
 
 0.98
 
 
(1) Excludes mortgage loans guaranteed by GNMA. Refer to the footnotes of preceding table for related amounts. 
(2) Excludes mortgage loans guaranteed by the government. 
Refer to the footnotes of preceding table for related amounts. 
(3) Net charge-offs for 2011 and 2010 
include $236 million and $695 million,
 respectively, related to BB&T™s NPA 
disposition strategy. In connection with this strategy, approximately $271 million and $1.9 billion of problem loans were 
transferred from loans held for investment to LHFS in 2011
 and 2010, respectively. 
The disposition of a
ll such loans was 
complete as of December 31, 2011. 
(4) These asset quality ratios have been ad
justed to remove the impact of cove
red loans and covered foreclosed property. 
Appropriate adjustments to the numerato
r and denominator have been reflected in the calculation of these ratios. 
 
  
64 
 
BB&T™s potential problem loans include loans on nonaccrual status or past due as disclosed in Table 22. In addition, for its 
commercial portfolio segment, loans that are rated special 
mention or substandard performing are closely monitored by 
management as potential problem lo
ans. Refer to Note 3 ﬁLoans and ACLﬂ in
 the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial 
Statementsﬂ herein for additional disclos
ures related to these 
potential problem loans. 
 
TDRs generally occur when a borrower is experiencing, or is 
expected to experience, financial difficulties in the near-term. 
As a result, BB&T will work with the borrow
er to prevent further diff
iculties, and ultimately to im
prove the likelihood of 
recovery on the loan. To facilitate this process, a concessionary 
modification that would not otherwise be considered may be 
granted resulting in classification of the loan as a TDR. Refer 
to Note 1 ﬁSummary of Significan
t Accounting Polic
iesﬂ in the 
ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statementsﬂ fo
r additional policy information regarding TDRs. 
 
BB&T™s performing TDRs, excluding government guaranteed mo
rtgage loans, totaled $1.3 b
illion at December 31, 2013, 
essentially flat compared to the prior year. During 2012, a n
ational bank regulatory agency 
issued guidance that requires 
certain loans, which have been discharged in bankruptcy and not reaffirmed by the borrower, to be accounted for as TDRs 
and possibly as nonperforming, regardle
ss of their actual payment history and e
xpected performance. In connection with the 
issuance of this guidance, BB&T classified $226 milli
on and $44 million of performing and nonperforming loans, 
respectively, as TDRs during the fourth quarter of 2012. Al
l loans subsequently discharged in bankruptcy have been 
evaluated and classified as performing 
or nonperforming TDRs based on an evalua
tion of historical and expected payment 
performance. 
 
The following table 
provides a summary of performing TDR activity: 
 
Table 24
Rollforward of Performing TDRs 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013 
 
2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions) 
 
 
Balance at beginning of year 
$
 1,327 
 
$ 
 1,109
 
 
 
Inflows 
 
 489 
 
 
 417
 
 
 
Change in regulatory guidance 
 
 

   
 
 
 226
 
 
 
Payments and payoffs 
 
 (208)
 
 
 (187)
 
 
 
Charge-offs 
 
 (41)
 
 
 (36)
 
 
 
Transfers to nonperforming TDRs, net 
 
 (65)
 
 
 (50)
 
 
 
Removal due to the passage of time 
 
 (108)
 
 
 (109)
 
 
 
N
on-concessionary re-modifications 
 
 (41)
 
 
 (43)
 
 
Removed in connection with the sale 
of a consumer lending subsidiary 
 
 (24)
 
 
 

  
 
Balance at end of year 
$
 1,329 
 
$
 
 1,327
 
 
Payments and payoffs represent cash received from borrowers in connection with scheduled principal payments, prepayments 
and payoffs of amounts outstanding. Transfers to nonperforming TD
Rs represent loans that no longer meet the requirements 
necessary to reflect the loan in accruing status and as a result are subsequently classified as a nonperforming TDR. 
 
TDRs may be removed due to the passage of
 time if they: (1) did not include a forg
iveness of principal or
 interest, (2) have 
performed in accordance with the modified terms (generally a minimum of six months), (3) were reported as a TDR over a 
year end reporting period, and (4) reflected an interest rate on 
the modified loan that was no less than a market rate at the d
ate 
of modification. These loans were previously considered TDRs as a result of structural concessions such as extended interest-
only terms or an amortization period that did not otherwise conform to normal underwriting guidelines. 
 
In addition, certain transactions may be re
moved from classification as a TDR as a re
sult of a subsequent non-concessionary 
re-modification. Non-concessionary 
re-modifications represent TDRs that did not c
ontain concessionary terms at the date of a 
subsequent renewal/modificati
on and there was a reasonable expectation that th
e borrower would continue to comply with 
the terms of the loan subsequent to the date of the re-modi
fication. A re-modification may be considered for such a re-
classification if the loan has not had a forg
iveness of principal or interest and the m
odified terms qualify as more than minor
 
such that the re-modified loan is considered a new loan. Al
ternatively, such loan
s may be considered for reclassification in 
years subsequent to the date of the re-modification based on 
the passage of time as described in the preceding paragraph. 
 
  
65 
 
In connection with consumer loan TDRs, a NPL
 will be returned to accruing status wh
en current as to pr
incipal and interest 
and upon a sustained historical repayment performance (gener
ally a minimum of six months). The following table provides 
further details regarding the payment status of TDRs: 
 
 
Table 25
 
 
TDRs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 December 31, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Past Due 
Past Due 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Current Status
30-89 Days (1) 
 
90 Days Or More (1) 
Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Performing TDRs: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial loans: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial 
$
 77 
 100.0 
%
$
 

   
 

   
%
$
 

   
 

   
%
$
 77 
 
 
 
 
CRE - other 
 70 
 100.0 
 
 

   
 

   
 
 

   
 

   
 
 70 
 
 
 
 
CRE - residential ADC 
 19 
 100.0 
 
 

   
 

   
 
 

   
 

   
 
 19 
 
 
 
Direct retail lending 
 173 
 92.5 
 
 12 
 6.4 
 
 2 
 1.1 
 
 187 
 
 
 
Sales finance 
 16 
 94.1 
 
 1 
 5.9 
 
 

   
 

   
 
 17 
 
 
 
Revolving credit 
 40 
 83.3 
 
 5 
 10.4 
 
 3 
 6.3 
 
 48 
 
 
 
Residential mortgage (2) 
 659 
 83.9 
 
 109 
 13.9 
 
 17 
 2.2 
 
 785 
 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 109 
 86.5 
 
 17 
 13.5 
 
 

   
 

   
 
 126 
 
 
 
 
Total performing TDRs (2) 
 1,163 
 87.5 
 
 144 
 10.8 
 
 22 
 1.7 
 
 1,329 
 
 
N
onperforming TDRs (3) 
 76 
 39.4 
 
 16 
 8.3 
 
 101 
 52.3 
 
 193 
 
 
 
 
Total TDRs (2) 
$
 1,239 
 81.4 
 
$
 160 
 10.5 
 
$
 123 
 8.1 
 
$
 1,522 
 
(1) Past due performing TDRs are included in past due disclosures. 
(2) Excludes residential mortgage TDRs that ar
e government guaranteed totaling $379 million. 
(3) Nonperforming TDRs are included 
in nonaccrual loan disclosures. 
  
  
66 
 
ACL
 
 
Information related to BB&T™s ACL for the last fi
ve years is presented in the following table: 
 
Table 26
 
Analysis of ACL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
 
2012 
 
2011 
 
2010 
 
2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
 
Beginning balance 
$
 2,048
$
 2,285
$
 2,755 
 
$
 2,672 
 
$
 1,607
  
Provision for credit losses (e
xcluding covered loans) 
 587
 1,044
 1,119 
 
 
 2,494 
 
 2,811
 
Provision for covered loans 
 5
 13
 71 
 
 
 144 
 
 

  
 
 
Charge-offs: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial (1) 
 (380)
 (732)
 (898)
 
 
 (1,508)
 
 (720)
 
 
 
Direct retail lending 
 (148)
 (224)
 (276)
 
 
 (338)
 
 (349)
 
 
 
Sales finance 
 (23)
 (26)
 (32)
 
 
 (48)
 
 (72)
 
 
 
Revolving credit 
 (85)
 (81)
 (95)
 
 
 (118)
 
 (127)
 
 
 
Residential mortgage (2) 
 (81)
 (136)
 (269)
 
 
 (394)
 
 (280)
 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 (255)
 (225)
 (190)
 
 
 (252)
 
 (314)
 
 
 
Covered loans 
 (19)
 (34)
 (66)
 
 
 

   
 
 

  
  
 
 
 
Total charge-offs (1)(2) 
 (991)
 (1,458)
 (1,826)
 
 
 (2,658)
 
 (1,862)
 
 
Recoveries: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial 
 98
 71
 71 
 
 
 37 
 
 21
 
 
 
Direct retail lending 
 38
 36
 37 
 
 
 33 
 
 19
 
 
 
Sales finance 
 9
 10
 9 
 
 
 9 
 
 9
 
 
 
Revolving credit 
 17
 18
 19 
 
 
 16 
 
 12
 
 
 
Residential mortgage 
 3
 3
 5 
 
 
 4 
 
 5
 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 34
 26
 25 
 
 
 31 
 
 23
 
 
 
 
Total recoveries 
 199
 164
 166 
 
 
 130 
 
 89
 
N
et charge-offs (1)(2) 
 (792)
 (1,294)
 (1,660)
 
 
 (2,528)
 
 (1,773)
 
Other changes, net 
 (27)
 

  
 

   
 
 
 (27)
 
 27
 
Ending balance 
$
 1,821
$
 2,048
$
 2,285 
 
$
 2,755 
 
$
 2,672
 
ALLL (excluding covered loans) 
$
 1,618
$
 1,890
$
 2,107 
 
$
 2,564 
 
$
 2,600
 
Allowance for covered loans 
 
 114
 
 128
 
 149 
 
 
 144 
 
 
 

  
 
RUFC 
 
 89
 
 30
 
 29 
 
 
 47 
 
 
 72
 
 
Total ACL 
$
 1,821
$
 2,048
$
 2,285 
 
$
 2,755 
 
$
 2,672
(1) 
Includes charge-offs of $4
64 million in commercial loans and leases 
during 2010 in connection with BB&T's NPL 
disposition strategy. 
 
(2) 
Includes charge-offs of $87 million and $141 million in residential mortgage loans during 2011 and 2010, 
respectively, in connection with BB
&T's NPL disposition strategy. 
 
 
The ACL, which totaled $1.8 billion and $2.0 billion at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, consists of the ALLL, 
which is presented separately on
 the Consolidated Balance 
Sheets, and the RUFC, which is in
cluded in other liabilities on the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets. The ALLL amounted to 1.49% of loans and leases held for investment at December 31, 2013 
(or 1.42% excluding covered loans), compared to 1.76% (or 1.70% excluding covered loans) at December 31, 2012. The 
decline in the ALLL reflects continued impr
ovement in credit quality as indicated by 
improving loss frequency and severity 
factors in most loan portfolios. The ratio of the ALLL to NP
Ls held for investment, excluding covered loans, was 1.73x at 
December 31, 2013 compared to 1.37x at December 31, 2012. 
 
  
67 
 
BB&T™s net charge-offs totaled $792 million 
for 2013, compared to $1.3
 billion in 2012. Included in
 net charge-offs for 2013 
and 2012 was $19 million and $34 million, respectively, of charge-offs related to covered loans. BB&T™s net charge-offs as a 
percentage of average loans and leases was 0.67% (and 0.67% excluding covered loans) for 2013, compared to 1.14% (or 
1.15% excluding covered loans), in 201
2. Net charge-offs decreased in most lending portfolios, including a 37.2% decrease 
in commercial and industrial, a 70.8% decrease in CRE Œ other 
and a 41.5% reduction in direct retail lending net charge-offs. 
Net charge-offs for the other le
nding subsidiaries portfolio increased 11.1%, pr
imarily reflecting growth 
in the loan
 portfolio
. 
Management expects that net charge-offs will remain slightly
 below the normalized range for net charge-offs (which ranges 
from 50 to 70 basis points). 
 
Refer to Note 3 ﬁLoans and ACLﬂ in 
the ﬁNotes to Consolidated
 Financial Statementsﬂ for additional disclosures. 
 
The following table presents an estimated allocation of the ALLL at 
the end of each of the last fi
ve years. This allocation of 
the ALLL is calculated on an approximate basis and is not necessarily indicative of future losses or allocations. The entire 
amount of the allowance is available to absorb losses occurring
 in any category of loans and leases. During 2013, the balance 
in the unallocated ALLL was allocated to the loan portfolio segments.  
 
Table 27
Allocation of ALLL by Category 
 
 
 
 
December 31,
 
 
 
 
2013
 
2012 
2011 
2010 
 
2009 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
% Loans
 
 
% Loans
 
 
% Loans
 
 
 
% Loans 
 
 
 
% Loans
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
in each 
 
 
in each 
 
 
in each 
 
 
 
in each 
 
 
 
in each 
 
 
 
 
Amount
 
 
category 
Amount
category 
Amount
category 
Amount 
 
category 
 
Amount
category 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
Balances at end of period applicable to:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial
 
$ 
 679 
 44.1 
%
$
 774 
 44.5 
%
$
 1,053 
 45.7 
%
$
 1,536 
 47.1 
% 
 
$ 
 1,574 
 48.2 
%
 
Direct retail lending
 
 
 209 
 13.7 
 
 
 300 
 13.8 
 
 
 232 
 13.5 
 
 
 246 
 13.3 
 
 
 
 297 
 13.8 
 
 
Sales finance
 
 
 45 
 8.1 
 
 
 29 
 6.8 
 
 
 38 
 6.9 
 
 
 47 
 6.8 
 
 
 
 77 
 6.1 
 
 
Revolving credit
 
 
 115 
 2.1 
 
 
 102 
 2.0 
 
 
 112 
 2.1 
 
 
 109 
 2.1 
 
 
 
 127 
 1.9 
 
 
Residential mortgage
 
 
 331 
 21.3 
 
 
 328 
 21.2 
 
 
 365 
 19.2 
 
 
 298 
 17.0 
 
 
 
 131 
 14.9 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries
 
 
 239 
 9.0 
 
 
 277 
 8.8 
 
 
 197 
 8.1 
 
 
 198 
 7.7 
 
 
 
 264 
 7.4 
 
 
Covered
 
 
 114 
 1.7 
 
 
 128 
 2.9 
 
 
 149 
 4.5 
 
 
 144 
 6.0 
 
 
 
 

   
 7.7 
 
 
Unallocated
 
 
 

   
 

   
 
 
 80 
 

   
 
 
 110 
 

   
 
 
 130 
 

   
 
 
 
 130 
 

   
 
 
 
Total ALLL 
 
 1,732 
 100.0 
%
 
 2,018 
 100.0 
%
 
 2,256 
 100.0 
%
 
 2,708 
 100.0 
% 
 
 
 2,600 
 100.0 
%
 
 
RUFC 
 
 89 
 
 
 30 
 
 
 29 
 
 
 47 
 
 
 
 72 
 
 
 
Total ACL
 
$ 
 1,821 
 
$
 2,048 
 
$
 2,285 
 
$
 2,755 
 
 
$ 
 2,672 
 
 
Funding Activities  
 
Deposits are the primary source of funds for lending and inve
sting activities. Scheduled paymen
ts, as well as prepayments, 
and maturities from portfolios of lo
ans and investment securities also provide a st
able source of funds. FHLB advances, other 
secured borrowings, Federal funds purchased and other short-
term borrowed funds, as well as longer-term debt issued 
through the capital mark
ets, all provide supplemental liquidity sources
. BB&T™s funding activities are monitored and 
governed through BB&T™s overall asset/lia
bility management process, which is furt
her discussed in the ﬁMarket Risk 
Managementﬂ section in ﬁManagement™s Discussion and Analy
sis of Financial Condition and Results of Operationsﬂ herein. 
Following is a brief description of the 
various sources of funds used by BB&T. 
 
Deposits  
 
Deposits are attracted principally from clients within BB&T™s bran
ch network through the offeri
ng of a broad selection of 
deposit instruments to individuals and businesses, including 
noninterest-bearing checking acc
ounts, interest-bearing checking 
accounts, savings accounts, money market deposit accounts, CDs and individual retirement accounts. Deposit account terms 
vary with respect to the minimum balance required, the time peri
od the funds must remain on
 deposit and service charge 
schedules. Interest rates paid on specific 
deposit types are determined based on (i) 
the interest rates offered by competitors,
 
(ii) the anticipated amount and timing of funding needs, (iii) the availability and cost of alternative sources of funding, and
 
(iv) anticipated future economic conditions and interest rates. Deposits are attractive sources of funding because of their 
stability and relative cost. Deposits are regarded as an im
portant part of the overall 
client relationship and provide 
opportunities to cross-sell other BB&T services. 
 
  
68 
 
Total deposits were $127.5 billion at Decemb
er 31, 2013, a decrease of $5.6 billion, 
or 4.2%, compared to year-end 2012. 
Noninterest-bearing deposits 
totaled $35.0 billion at December 31, 2013, an in
crease of $2.5 billion, or 7.8%, from December 
31, 2012. The increase in noninterest-bearing deposits was broad 
based in nature, with increases in deposits from personal, 
business and public funds clients. Interest checking and money 
market and savings accounts de
creased $1.5 billion, or 2.1%, 
compared to the prior year while certificates and other time 
deposits declined $6.7 billion, 
or 21.1%, during that same time 
period. For the year ended December 31
, 2013, total deposits averag
ed $128.6 billion, an increas
e of $938 million, or 0.7%, 
compared to 2012. Management currently expects conti
nued growth in client depo
sit balances during 2014. 
 
The following table presents the 
composition of average deposits 
for the last five quarters: 
 
 
Table 28
 
 
Composition of Average Deposits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
For the Three Months Ended 
 
 
 
 
12/31/13 
9/30/13 
6/30/13 
 
3/31/13 
 
12/31/12 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
N
oninteres
t
-bearing deposits 
$
 35,347 
$
 34,244 
$
 33,586 
$ 
 32,518 
$
 31,849 
 
 
Interest checking 
 
 18,969 
 
 18,826 
 
 19,276 
 
 20,169 
 
 19,837 
 
 
Money market and savings 
 
 49,298 
 
 48,676 
 
 48,140 
 
 48,431 
 
 47,965 
 
 
Certificates and other time deposits 
 
 21,580 
 
 25,562 
 
 28,034 
 
 28,934 
 
 31,724 
 
 
Foreign office deposits - interest-bearing 
 
 712 
 
 640 
 
 947 
 
 385 
 
 387 
 
 
 
Total average deposits 
$
 125,906 
$
 127,948 
$
 129,983 
$ 
 130,437 
$
 131,762 
 
 
Average deposits for the fourth quarter of 20
13 decreased $2.0 billion, 
or 6.3% on an annualized basis, compared to the third 
quarter. Deposit mix continued to improve during the quarter 
as average noninterest-bearing 
deposits grew $1.1 billion, while 
average certificates and other time deposits
 decreased $4.0 billi
on. Average noninterest-bearin
g deposits represented 28.1% 
of total average deposits for the fourth quarter compared to 26.8% for the prior quarter. 
 
Growth in average noninterest-bearing deposits was broad-base
d, with increases in deposits related to commercial, public 
funds and personal accounts totaling $500 million, $347 million and $171 million, respectively. Average interest-checking 
and money market and savings accounts increased $765 million co
mpared to the prior quarter, reflecting growth in personal, 
public funds and commercial accounts totaling $312 million, $254 million and $199 million, respectively. The decrease in 
average certificates and other time deposits was primarily dr
iven by a $3.0 billion decline 
in non-client certificates of depos
it. 
Average foreign office deposits increased $72 million compared to the prior quarter. 
 
The cost of interest-bearing deposits was 0.28% for the fourth quarte
r, a decrease of three basis points compared to the prior 
quarter. 
 
The following table provid
es information regarding the scheduled maturiti
es of time deposits that 
are $100,000 an
d greater at 
December 31, 2013: 
 
Table 29
Scheduled Maturities of Time De
posits $100,00
0 and Greater 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2013
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
Three months or less 
$
 8,034 
 
 
Over three through six months 
 1,415 
 
 
Over six through twelve months 
 1,473 
 
 
Over twelve months 
 3,251 
 
 
 
Total 
$
 14,173 
 
 
  
69 
 
Short-term Borrowings  
 
BB&T also uses various types of short-te
rm borrowings in meeting funding needs.
 While deposits remain the primary source 
for funding loan originations, management uses short-term borr
owings as a supplementary funding source for loan growth 
and other balance sheet management purposes. Short-term borr
owings were 2.5% of total fund
ing on average in 2013 as 
compared to 1.9% in 2012. See Note 7 ﬁShort-Term Borrowingsﬂ in 
the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statementsﬂ herein 
for further disclosure. The types of short-term borrowings that
 have been, or may be, used by the Company include Federal 
funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements
, master notes, commercial paper and short-term bank notes. All 
securities sold under repurchase agreements are reflected
 as collateralized borrowings on 
the balance sheet. Short-term 
borrowings at the end of 2013 were $4.1 b
illion, an increase of $1.3 b
illion, or 44.5%, compar
ed to year-end
 2012. Average 
short-term borrowings totaled $4.5 billion during
 2013 compared to $3.4 
billion last year, an increase of 30.8%. The increase 
in the average balan
ce during 2013 primarily ref
lects the managed reduction in non
-client certificates of deposit. 
 
The following table summarizes certain information for the past three years with respect to short-term borrowings:  
 
Table 30
Short-Term Borrowings 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As Of / For The Years Ended December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
 
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
 
Securities Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Maximum outstanding at any month-end during the year 
$
 1,537 
 
$
 813 
 
 
$ 
 1,176 
 
 
 
 
Balance outstanding at end of year 
 
 463 
 
 
 514 
 
 
 
 619 
 
 
 
 
Average outstanding during the year 
 
 662 
 
 
 651 
 
 
 
 956 
 
 
 
 
Average interest rate during the year 
 
 0.25 
%
 
 0.30 
% 
 
 
 0.73 
%
 
 
 
Average interest rate at end of year 
 
 0.28 
 
 
 0.33 
 
 
 
 0.31 
 
 
 
Federal Funds Purchased and Short-Term Borrowed Funds: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Maximum outstanding at any month-end during the year 
$
 4,722 
 
$
 3,627 
 
 
$ 
 9,350 
 
 
 
 
Balance outstanding at end of year 
 
 3,675 
 
 
 2,350 
 
 
 
 2,947 
 
 
 
 
Average outstanding during the year 
 
 3,797 
 
 
 2,757 
 
 
 
 4,233 
 
 
 
 
Average interest rate during the year 
 
 0.13 
%
 
 0.20 
% 
 
 
 0.10 
%
 
 
 
Average interest rate at end of year 
 
 0.09 
 
 
 0.19 
 
 
 
 0.17 
 
 
 
Long-term Debt  
 
Long-term debt provides funding and, to a lesser extent, regulato
ry capital. During 2013, long-term debt represented 10.6% 
of average total funding compared to 11.6% during 2012. At December 31, 2013, long-term debt totaled $21.5 billion, an 
increase of $2.4 billion compared to year-e
nd 2012. The increase in long-term debt
 is primarily due to Branch Bank senior 
note issuances to obtain liquidity at attr
active rates. The average cost of long-term debt was 3.03% in 2013, compared to 
3.02% in 2012. See Note 9 ﬁLong-Term Debtﬂ 
in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Fina
ncial Statementsﬂ herein for further 
disclosure. 
 
Exclusive of hedge basis adjustments, 
FHLB advances represented 37.7% of 
total outstanding long-term debt at 
December 31, 2013; senior notes of BB&T represented 30.5% of the year-end balance; subordinated notes of BB&T 
represented 10.1% of the year-end bala
nce; senior notes of Branch Bank repre
sented 14.7% of the year-end balance; and 
subordinated notes of Branch Bank represented 4.6% of the yea
r-end balance. FHLB advances are cost-effective long-term 
funding sources that provide flexibility to st
ructure the debt in a manner that aids in
 the management of interest rate risk an
d 
liquidity. 
 
Effective January 28, 2014, BB&T i
ssued $1.1 billion of senior notes
 with a combination of fixed and floating interest rates. 
These notes mature in 2019. 
  
  
70 
 
Shareholders™ Equity  
 
Shareholders™ equity totaled $22.8 billion at December 31, 2013, an increase of $1.6 billion, or 7.5%, from year-end 2012. 
Book value per common share at December 31, 2013 was $28.52, compared to $27.21 at December 31, 2012. 
 
The increase in shareholders™ equity during 2013 includes $487 million in net proceeds from the issuance of Tier 1 qualifying 
non-cumulative perpetual preferred stoc
k. See Note 9 ﬁShareholders™ Equityﬂ in
 the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial 
Statementsﬂ herein for additional information. 
In addition, shareholders™ 
equity increased $915 m
illion due to net income in 
excess of dividends declared, and $233 million
 as a result of the issu
ance of additional shares and other transactions in 
connection with equity-based
 compensation plans, th
e 401(k) plan and the dividend rei
nvestment plan. The net loss in AOCI 
increased $34 million, primarily due to a $640 million after-
tax net decrease in the value of the AFS securities portfolio, 
partially offset by improvements of $411 million related to pens
ions and other post-retirement be
nefit plans and $175 million 
related to changes in unrealized net gains on cash flow hedges. 
 
Tangible book value per common share at December 31, 2013 
was $18.08 compared to $16.53 at December 31, 2012. As of 
December 31, 2013, measures of tangible capital were not required by the regulators and, therefore, were considered non-
GAAP measures. Refer to the section titled ﬁCapitalﬂ herein fo
r a discussion of how BB&T calculates and uses these 
measures in the evaluation of the Company. 
 
Risk Management 
 
 
BB&T has defined and established an enterprise-wide risk culture that places an emphasis on effective risk management 
through a strong tone at the top by the Board of Directors and Executive Management, accountability at all levels of the 
organization, an effective challenge environment and incentives
 to encourage strong risk management behavior. The risk 
culture promotes judicious risk-taking an
d discourages rampant revenue generation 
without consideration of corresponding 
risks. It is part of BB&T™s mission s
tatement that risk is managed to optimize the 
long-term return to shareholders, while 
providing a safe and sound investment. Ri
sk management begins with the LOBs, and as such, BB&T has established clear 
expectations for the LOBs in regard
s to the identification, monitori
ng, reporting and response to 
current and emerging risks. 
Centrally, risk oversight is mana
ged at the corporate level through 
oversight, policies and reporting. 
 
The Board of Directors and Executive Management establishe
d BB&T™s risk culture and prom
oted appropriate risk-taking 
behaviors. It is the respon
sibility of senior leadership to clearly comm
unicate the organizational v
alues that support the 
desired risk culture, recognize and reward behavior that reflect
s the defined risk culture and monitor and assess the current 
risk culture of BB&T. Regardless of financial gain or loss, em
ployees are held accountable if they do not follow the 
established risk management policies and procedures. BB&T™
s risk culture encourages transparency and open dialogue 
between all levels in the performance of bank functions, such
 as the development, marketing and implementation of a product 
or service. An effective challenge environment is reflected in BB&T™s decision-making processes. 
 
The Chief Risk Officer leads the RMO, which designs, or
ganizes and manages BB&T™s risk framework. The RMO is 
responsible for ensuring effective risk
 management oversight, measurement, mon
itoring, reporting and consistency. The 
RMO has direct access to the Board of Directors and Executive Management to communicate any risk issues (identified or 
emerging) as well as the performance of the risk manageme
nt activities throughout the Compan
y. The principal types of 
inherent risk include regulatory, 
credit, liquidity, market, operational, reputation and strategic risks. 
 
Compliance risk  
 
Compliance risk is the risk to earnings, capital, or reputation arisin
g from violations of, or no
ncompliance with, current and 
changing laws, regulations, supervisor
y guidance or regulatory expectations. 
 
Credit risk  
 
Credit risk is the risk to earnings or 
capital arising from the default, inability or
 unwillingness of a borrower, obligor, or 
counterparty to meet the terms of any financ
ial obligation with BB&T or otherwise perform
 as agreed. Credit risk exists in all 
activities where success depends on the performance of a borrower, obligor, or counterparty. Credit risk arises when BB&T 
funds are extended, committed, invested, or ot
herwise exposed through actual or implied
 contractual agreements, whether on 
or off the balance sheet. Credit risk also occ
urs when the credit quality of
 an issuer whose securities
 or other instruments th
e 
bank holds deteriorates. 
 
  
71 
 
BB&T has established the following general practices to manage credit risk:  
 

 
limiting the amount of credit that individu
al lenders may extend to a borrower;  
 

 
establishing a process for credit approval accountability;  
 

 
careful initial underwriting and analysis of borrow
er, transaction, market 
and collateral risks;  
 

 
ongoing servicing and monitoring of individual loans and lending relationships;  
 

 
continuous monitoring of the portfolio, 
market dynamics and the economy; and  
 

 
periodically reevaluating the bank™s strategy and overall ex
posure as economic, market and other relevant conditions 
change. 
 
The following discussion presents the 
principal types of lending conducted 
by BB&T and describes the underwriting 
procedures and overall risk manage
ment of BB&T™s lending function. 
 
Underwriting Approach  
 
Recognizing that the loan 
portfolio is a primary source 
of profitability and risk
, proper loan underwriting is critical to 
BB&T™s long-term financial success. BB&T™s underwriting approach is designed to define acceptable combinations of 
specific risk-mitigating features that ensure credit relationships
 conform to BB&T™s risk philo
sophy. Provided
 below is a 
summary of the most significant underwriting criteria us
ed to evaluate new loan
s and loan renewals:  
 

 
Cash flow and debt service coverage
Šcash flow adequacy is a necessary 
condition of creditwor
thiness, meaning 
that loans must either be clearly
 supported by a borrower™s ca
sh flow or, if not, must 
be justified by secondary 
repayment sources. 
 

 
Secondary sources of repayment
Šalternative repayment funds are a significant risk-mitigating factor as long as they 
are liquid, can be easily accessed and provide adequate resources to supplement the primary cash flow source. 
 

 
Value of any underlying collateral
Šloans are generally secured by the asset 
being financed. Because an analysis of 
the primary and secondary sources of repayment is the most 
important factor, collateral, unle
ss it is liquid, does not 
justify loans that cannot be serviced by the borrower™s normal cash flows. 
 

 
Overall creditworthiness of the customer, taking into account
 the customer™s relationships, both past and current, 
with BB&T and other lenders
ŠBB&T™s success depends on building lastin
g and mutually beneficial relationships 
with clients, which involves assessing 
their financial position and background. 
 

 
Level of equity invested in the transaction
Šin general, borrowers are required to contribute or invest a portion of 
their own funds prior to any loan advances. 
 
Commercial Loan and Lease Portfolio  
 
The commercial loan and lease portfolio represents the la
rgest category of the Company™s to
tal loan portfolio. BB&T™s 
commercial lending program is generally targeted to serve small-to
-middle market businesses with sales of $250 million or 
less. In addition, BB&T™s Corporate Bank
ing Group provides lending solutions 
to large corporate clients. Traditionally, 
lending to small and mid-sized businesses has 
been among BB&T™s strongest market segments. 
 
Commercial and small business loans are prim
arily originated through
 BB&T™s Community Bank. 
In accordance with the 
Company™s lending policy, each loan undergoes a detailed un
derwriting process, which incorporates BB&T™s underwriting 
approach, procedures and evaluations described above. Commerc
ial loans are typically priced with an interest rate tied to 
market indices, such as the prime rate or LIBOR. Commercial lo
ans are individually monitored and reviewed for any possible 
deterioration in the ability of the client 
to repay the loan. Approximately 90% 
of BB&T™s commercial loans are secured by 
real estate, business equipment, in
ventories and other types of collateral. 
 
  
72 
 
Direct Retail Loan
 Portfolio  
 
The direct retail loan portfolio primarily consists of a wide va
riety of loan products offered through BB&T™s branch network. 
Various types of secure
d and unsecured loans are marketed 
to qualifying existing clients and 
to other creditworthy candidates 
in BB&T™s market area. The vast majority of direct retail loans 
are secured by first or seco
nd liens on residential real estate
 
and include both closed-end home equity loans and revolving home
 equity lines of credit. Direct 
retail loans are subject to the
 
same rigorous lending policies and proced
ures as described above for commercial
 loans and are under
written with note 
amounts and credit limits that ensure consis
tency with the Compan
y™s risk philosophy. 
 
During January of 2014, approximately $8.3 billion of home equ
ity loans were transferred from direct retail lending to 
residential mortgage. 
 
Sales Finance Loan Portfolio  
 
The sales finance category primarily includes secured indirect installment loans to consumers for the purchase of new and 
used automobiles, boats and recreational vehicles. Such loan
s are originated through approv
ed franchised and independent 
dealers throughout the BB&T market area. These loans are relativ
ely homogenous and no single loan is individually 
significant in terms of its si
ze and potential risk of loss. Sales finance loans are subject to the same rigorous lending polic
ies 
and procedures as described above for commercial loans and are underwritten with note amounts and credit limits that ensure 
consistency with the Company™s risk 
philosophy. In additio
n to its normal underwriti
ng due diligence, BB&T uses 
application systems and ﬁscoring systemsﬂ to help underwrite a
nd manage the credit risk in its sales finance portfolio. Also 
included in the sales finance category are commercial lines, 
serviced by the Dealer Finance Department, to finance dealer 
wholesale inventory (ﬁFloor Plan Linesﬂ) for resale to consu
mers. Floor Plan Lines are underwritten by commercial loan 
officers in compliance with the same rigor
ous lending policies described above for 
commercial loans. In addition, Floor Plan 
Lines are subject to intensive 
monitoring and oversight to ensure quality
 and to mitigate risk, 
including from fraud. 
 
Revolving Credit Loan Portfolio  
 
The revolving credit portfolio comprises the outstanding balances on credit cards and BB&T™s checking account overdraft 
protection product, Constant Credit. BB&
T markets credit cards to its existing banking client base and does not solicit 
cardholders through na
tionwide programs or other forms of mass marke
ting. Such balances are generally unsecured and 
actively managed. 
 
Residential Mortgage 
Loan Portfolio  
 
Branch Bank offers various types of fixed- and adjustable
-rate loans for the purpose of 
constructing, purchasing or 
refinancing residential properties. BB&T primarily originates 
conforming mortgage loans an
d higher quality jumbo and 
construction-to-permanent loans for owner-occupied proper
ties. Conforming loans are lo
ans that are underwritten in 
accordance with the underwriting standards set forth by FNMA and FHLMC. They are generally collateralized by one-to-
four-family residential real estate, typically have loan-to-co
llateral value ratios of 80% or less, and are made to borrowers i
n 
good credit standing. 
 
Risks associated with the mortgage lending
 function include interest rate risk, wh
ich is mitigated throu
gh the sale of a 
substantial portion of conforming fixed-rate loans in the seco
ndary mortgage market and an effective MSR hedging process. 
Borrower risk is lessened through rigorou
s underwriting procedures and mortgage ins
urance. The right to service the loans 
and receive servicing income is generally retained when conforming loans are sold. Management believes that the retention 
of mortgage servicing is a relationship driver in retail banking 
and a part of management™s st
rategy to establish profitable 
long-term customer relationships and offer high quality client 
service. BB&T also purchases residential mortgage loans from 
correspondent originators. The loans purcha
sed from third-party originators are subj
ect to the same underwriting and risk-
management criteria as loan
s originated internally. 
 
Other Lending Subsidiaries Portfolio  
 
BB&T™s other lending subsidiaries portfolio
 consists of loans originated through si
x LOBs that provide specialty finance 
alternatives to consumers and businesses including: dealer-based 
financing of equipment for small businesses and consumers, 
commercial equipment leasing and finance, insurance premium 
finance, indirect nonprime automobile finance, and full-
service commercial mortgage banking. BB&T offers these services to bank clients as well as nonbank clients within and 
outside BB&T™s primary geographic market area. 
 
  
73 
 
BB&T™s other lending subsidiaries adhere to the same overa
ll underwriting approach as the commercial and consumer 
lending portfolio and also utilize au
tomated credit scoring to assist
 with underwriting credit ris
k. The majority of these loan
s 
are relatively homogenous and no single loan
 is individually significant in terms of
 its size and potential risk of loss. The 
majority of the loans are secured by real estate, automobiles, equipment or unearned insurance premiums. As of December 
31, 2013, included in the other lending 
subsidiaries portfolio are loans to nonpr
ime borrowers of appr
oximately $2.8 billion, 
or 2.4% of the total BB&T loan and lease portfolio. 
 
Covered Loan 
Portfolio  
 
BB&T has $2.0 billion of loans covered by loss sharing agreements with the FDIC, which are primarily CRE and residential 
mortgage loans. Refer to Note 3 ﬁLoans and ACLﬂ in the ﬁN
otes to Consolidated Financial St
atementsﬂ in this report for 
additional disclosures related to BB&T™s covered loans. 
 
Liquidity risk  
 
Liquidity risk is the risk to ongoing operations arising from the inability to accommodate liability maturities or deposit 
withdrawals, fund asset growth, or meet
 contractual obligations when they come
 due. For additional information concerning 
BB&T™s management of liquidity risk, see the ﬁLiquidityﬂ s
ection of ﬁManagement™s Discussion and Analysisﬂ herein. 
 
Market risk  
 
Market risk is the risk to earnings or 
capital arising from changes in the market 
value of portfolios, securities, or other 
financial instruments due to changes in the level, volatility, or correlations among financial market rates or prices, includin
g 
interest rates, foreign exchange rates, eq
uity prices, or other relevant rates or 
prices. For additional information concerning
 
BB&T™s management of market risk, see the ﬁMarket Risk Managementﬂ section of ﬁManagement™s Discussion and 
Analysisﬂ herein. 
 
Operational risk  
 
Operational risk is the risk to earnings or capital arising from in
adequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or
 
from external events. 
This definition includes legal risk, which is the 
risk of loss arising from 
defective transactions, litig
ation 
or claims made, or the failure to adequately protect company-owned assets. 
 
Reputation risk  
 
Reputation risk is the risk to earnings, capital, enterprise valu
e, the BB&T brand, and public 
confidence arising from negative
 
publicity or public opinion, whether real or perceived, re
garding BB&T™s business practices, products and services, 
transactions, or other activities undertaken 
by BB&T, its representatives, or its part
ners. Reputation risk may impact BB&T™s 
clients, employees, communities or shareholders, and is often a 
residual risk that arises when other risks are not managed 
properly. 
 
Strategic risk  
 
Strategic risk is the risk to earnings,
 capital, enterprise value, and to the achievement of BB&T™s Vision, Mission, Purpose, 
and business objectives that arises fro
m BB&T™s business strategy, adverse busi
ness decisions, improper or ineffective 
implementation of decisions, or lack of responsiveness to change
s in business environment. Strategic risk is a function of the 
compatibility of BB&T™s strategic goals, the 
business strategies developed to achieve those goals, the resources deployed 
against these goals, and th
e quality of implementation. 
 
Market Risk Management 
 
The effective management of market risk 
is essential to achieving BB&T™s strategic financial objectives. As a financial 
institution, BB&T™s most significant market risk exposure is 
interest rate risk in its balance sheet; however, market risk also
 
includes product liquidity risk, price risk and volatility risk
 in BB&T™s LOBs. The prima
ry objectives of market risk 
management are to minimize any adverse effect that changes in market risk factors may have on net interest income, net 
income and capital and to offset the 
risk of price changes for certa
in assets recorded at fair 
value. At BB&T, market risk 
management also includes the 
enterprise-wide IPV function. 
 
  
74 
 
Interest Rate Market Risk (Other than Trading) 
 
BB&T actively manages market risk associated 
with asset and liability portfolios with a 
focus on the strategic pricing of asset
 
and liability accounts and management of appropriate maturity mixes of assets and liabilities. The goal of these activities is 
the development of appropriate maturity and repricing opport
unities in BB&T™s portfolios of 
assets and liabilities that will 
produce reasonably consistent net interest 
income during periods of changing interest
 rates. These portfolios are analyzed for 
proper fixed-rate and variable-rate mixes under various interest rate scenarios. 
 
The asset/liability management process is 
designed to achieve relatively stable NIM and 
assure liquidity by coordinating the 
volumes, maturities or repricing opportunities of earning assets
, deposits and borrowed funds. Among other things, this 
process gives consideration to prepayment trends related to s
ecurities, loans and leases and certain deposits that have no 
stated maturity. Prepayment assumptions are develope
d using a combination of mark
et data and internal historical 
prepayment experience for residential mort
gage-related loans and securities, and inter
nal historical prepayment experience 
for client deposits with no stated maturity 
and loans that are not residential mortgage
 related. These assumptions are subject 
to monthly back-testing, and are adjusted as deemed necessary to reflect changes in interest rates relative to the reference ra
te 
of the underlying assets or liabilities. On a monthly basis, 
BB&T evaluates the accuracy of its Simulation model, which 
includes an evaluation of its prepayment assumptions, to ensure
 that all significant assumptions inherent in the model 
appropriately reflect changes in the interest rate environment and re
lated trends in prepayment a
ctivity. It is the responsibil
ity 
of the MRLCC to determine and achieve the most appropri
ate volume and mix of earning 
assets and interest-bearing 
liabilities, as well as to ensure an adequa
te level of liquidity and capital, within 
the context of corporate performance goals
. 
The MRLCC also sets policy guidelines and establishes long-term 
strategies with respect to in
terest rate risk exposure and 
liquidity. The MRLCC meets regularly to review BB&T™s interes
t rate risk and liquidity positions in relation to present and 
prospective market and business conditions, and adopts funding an
d balance sheet management strategies that are intended to 
ensure that the potential impacts on earnings and liquidity as a 
result of fluctuations in inter
est rates are within acceptable
 
tolerance guidelines. 
 
BB&T uses derivatives primarily to manage economic risk
 related to securities, commercial loans, MSRs and mortgage 
banking operations, long-term de
bt and other funding sources. BB&T also uses
 derivatives to facilitate transactions on behalf 
of its clients. As of December 31, 2013, BB&T had derivative financial instruments outstanding with notional amounts 
totaling $59.3 billion, with a net fair value of a loss of $106 mil
lion. See Note 18 ﬁDerivative 
Financial Instrumentsﬂ in the 
ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statement
sﬂ herein for additional disclosures. 
 
The majority of BB&T™s assets and liabilities are monetary in natu
re and, therefore, differ greatly from most commercial and 
industrial companies that have si
gnificant investments in fixed assets or inve
ntories. Fluctuations in interest rates and actio
ns 
of the FRB to regulate the availability and cost of credit ha
ve a greater effect on a financial institution™s profitability tha
n do 
the effects of higher costs for goods and services. Through its 
balance sheet management function, which is monitored by the 
MRLCC, management believes that BB&T is positioned to respond 
to changing needs for liquidit
y, changes in interest rates 
and inflationary trends. 
 
Management uses the Simulation to measur
e the sensitivity of projected earnings to ch
anges in interest rates. The Simulation 
model projects net interest income and interest rate risk fo
r a rolling two-year period of time. The Simulation takes into 
account the current contractual agreements that BB&T has made with its customers on deposits, borrowings, loans, 
investments and commitments to enter into those transactions. 
Furthermore, the Simulation considers the impact of expected 
customer behavior. Management monitors BB&T™s interest se
nsitivity by means of a model th
at incorporates the current 
volumes, average rates earned and paid, and 
scheduled maturities and paym
ents of asset and liability portfolios, together with 
multiple scenarios that include projected prepayments, repric
ing opportunities and anticipated vo
lume growth. Using this 
information, the model projects earnings based on projected port
folio balances under multiple in
terest rate scenarios. This 
level of detail is needed to simulate the 
effect that changes in interest rates and 
portfolio balances ma
y have on the earnings
 
of BB&T. This method is subject to the accuracy of the assumptions that underlie the process, but management believes that 
it provides a better illustration of the sensitivity of earnings to 
changes in interest rates than
 other analyses such as stati
c or 
dynamic gap. In addition to the Simulation, BB&T uses EVE anal
ysis to focus on projected 
changes in capital given potential 
changes in interest rates. This measure als
o allows BB&T to analyze interest rate risk 
that falls outside the analysis window 
contained in the Simulation model. The EVE model is a disc
ounted cash flow of the port
folio of assets, liabilities, and 
derivative instruments. The difference in 
the present value of assets minus the present value of liabilities is defined as the 
economic value of equity. 
 
  
75 
 
The asset/liability management process requires a number of
 key assumptions. Management determines the most likely 
outlook for the economy and interest rates by analyzing externa
l factors, including published 
economic projections and data, 
the effects of likely monetary and fiscal policies, as well 
as any enacted or prospective regulatory changes. BB&T™s current 
and prospective liquidity position, current
 balance sheet volumes and projected growth,
 accessibility of funds for short-term 
needs and capital maintenance are also considered. This data is
 combined with various interest rate scenarios to provide 
management with the information necessary to analyze interest sensitivity and to aid in the development of strategies to reach 
performance goals. 
 
The following table shows the effect that the indicated changes 
in interest rates would have on net interest income as 
projected for the next twelve months assu
ming a gradual change in interest rates as described below. Key assumptions in the 
preparation of the table include prepayme
nt speeds of mortgage-related and other assets, cash flows and maturities of 
derivative financial instruments, loan volumes and pricing, depo
sit sensitivity, customer pref
erences and capital plans. The 
resulting change in net interes
t income reflects the level of 
sensitivity that interest sensitive income has in relation to 
changing interest rates. 
 
Table 31
Interest Sensitivity Simulation Analysis 
 
 
 
 
Interest Rate Scenario
 
Annualized Hypothetical Percentage
 
 
 
 
 
 
Linear
 
 
Prime Rate
 
 
Change in Net Interest Income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change in
 
 
December 31,
 
 
December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prime Rate
 
 2013 
 
 2012  
 
 
 2013 
 2012  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Up 200
bps 
 
 5.25 
%
 5.25 
%
 
 
 2.27 
%
 3.16 
% 
 
 
 
 
 
Up 100
 
 
 4.25 
 
 4.25 
 
 
 
 1.35 
 
 2.04 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No Change
 
 
 3.25 
 
 3.25 
 
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Down 25
 
 
 3.00 
 
 3.00 
 
 
 
 0.39 
 
 (0.13)
 
 
 
 
The MRLCC has established parameters related to interest se
nsitivity that prescribe a maximum negative impact on net 
interest income under different interest r
ate scenarios. In the event 
the results of the Simulation model fall outside the 
established parameters, management will make recommendations 
to the MRLCC on the most appropriate response given the 
current economic forecast. The following parameters and interest rate scenarios are considered BB&T™s primary measures of 
interest rate risk: 
 

 
Maximum negative impact on net interest income of 2%
 for the next 12 months assuming a linear change 
in interest rates totaling 100 basis po
ints over four months followed by 
a flat interest rate scenario for the 
remaining eight month period. 
 

 
Maximum negative impact on net interest income of 4%
 for the next 12 months assuming a linear change 
of 200 basis points over eight months followed by a fl
at interest rate scenario for the remaining four month 
period. 
 
If a rate change of 200 basis points cannot be modeled due to 
a low level of rates, a propor
tional limit applies. Management 
currently only models a negative 25 basis poi
nt decline because larger declines would 
have resulted in a Federal funds rate of 
less than zero. In a situation such as this, the maximum negativ
e impact on net interest income is
 adjusted on a proportional 
basis. Regardless of the proportional limit, the negative risk expo
sure limit will be the greater of 1% or the proportional lim
it. 
 
Management has also established a maximum negative impact 
on net interest income of 4% for an immediate 100 basis 
points change in rates and 8% for an immediate 200 basis poin
ts change in rates. These ﬁinterest rate shockﬂ limits are 
designed to create an outer band of acceptable risk based upon a significant and immediate change in rates. 
 
Management must also consider how th
e balance sheet and interest rate risk positio
n could be impacted by changes in 
balance sheet mix. Liquidity in the banking
 industry has been very strong during
 the current economic cycle. Much of this 
liquidity increase has been due to a sign
ificant increase in noninterest-bearing de
mand deposits. Consistent with the industry,
 
Branch Bank has seen a significant increase in this funding 
source. The behavior of these 
deposits is one of the most 
important assumptions used in determining the interest rate risk
 position of BB&T. A loss of thes
e deposits in the future 
would reduce the asset sensitivity of BB&T™s balance sheet as the 
company increases interest-beari
ng funds to offset the loss 
of this advantageous funding source. 
 
  
76 
 
Beta represents the correlation between overall market interest rates 
and the rates paid by BB&T on
 interest-bearing deposits. 
BB&T applies an average beta 
of approximately 80% to its managed rate depos
its for determining its interest rate sensitivity. 
Managed rate deposits are high beta, premium money market and 
interest checking accounts, wh
ich attract significant client 
funds when needed to s
upport balance sheet growth. BB&T re
gularly conducts sensitivity on ot
her key variables to determine 
the impact they could have on the interes
t rate risk position. This allows BB&T to 
evaluate the likely impact on its balance 
sheet management strategies due to a more extr
eme variation in a key a
ssumption than expected. 
 
The following table shows the effect that the loss of demand deposits and an associated increase in managed rate deposits 
would have on BB&T™s interest-rate sensitivity position. For purp
oses of this analysis, BB&T modeled the incremental beta 
for the replacement of the lost demand deposits at 100%. 
 
Table 32
Deposit Mix Sensitivity Analysis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Results Assuming a Decrease in
 
 
 
 
 
 
Increase in
 
 
 
Base Scenario 
 
Noninterest Bearing Demand Deposits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rates
 
 
 
at December 31, 2013 (1) 
 
$1 Billion
$5 Billion 
 
 
 
 
 
Up 200
bps 
 
 2.27 
%
 
 2.01 
%
 0.98 
% 
 
 
 
 
Up 100
 
 
 1.35 
 
 
 1.19 
 
 0.56 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) 
The base scenario is equal to the 
annualized hypothetical 
percentage change in net inter
est income at December 31, 
2013 as presented in the preceding table. 
 
If rates increased 200 basis points, BB
&T could absorb the loss of $8.8 billion,
 or 25.3%, of noninterest bearing demand 
deposits and replace them with managed rate deposits with a beta of 100% before becoming neutral to interest rate changes.  
 
The following table shows the effect that the indicated changes in 
interest rates would have on EVE. Key assumptions in the 
preparation of the table include prepayme
nt speeds of mortgage-related and other assets, cash flows and maturities of 
derivative financial instruments, loan volumes and pricing and 
deposit sensitivity. The resulting 
change in the EVE reflects 
the level of sensitivity that EVE has in
 relation to changing interest rates. 
 
Table 33
EVE Simulation Analysis 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hypothetical Percentage
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EVE/Assets
 
Change in EVE
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change in
 
 
 December 31, 
 
 December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rates
 
 
 2013 
 
 2012  
 
 2013 
 
 2012  
 
 
 
 
 
Up 200
bps 
 
 10.3 
%
 7.5 
%
 
 (4.5)
%
 
 16.6 
% 
 
 
 
 
 
Up 100
 
 
 10.6 
 
 7.2 
 
 
 (1.4)
 
 
 11.9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
No Change
 
 
 10.8 
 
 6.4 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
Down 25
 
 
 10.8 
 
 6.2 
 
 
 (0.4)
 
 
 (4.1)
 
 
 
Market Risk from Trading Activities 
 
BB&T also manages market risk from tradi
ng activities which consists of acting as a 
financial intermediary to provide its 
customers access to derivatives, foreign exchange and securities markets. Trading market risk is managed through the use of 
statistical and non-statistical risk measures an
d limits. BB&T utilizes a historical VaR me
thodology to measure and aggregate 
risks across its covered trading LOBs. This methodology uses tw
o years of historical data to 
estimate economic outcomes for 
a one-day time horizon at a 99% confidence level. The average 99% one-day VaR and the maximum daily VaR for the year 
ended December 31, 2013 were less than $1 million. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the average 99% one-day VaR 
was less than $1 million and the maximum daily VaR was approxi
mately $3 million. Market risk disclosures under Basel II.5 
are available in the Additional Dis
closures section of the Investor 
Relations site on www.bbt.com/about. 
 
  
77 
 
Liquidity 
 
Liquidity represents the continuing ability
 to meet funding needs, including de
posit withdrawals, timely repayment of 
borrowings and other liabilities, and funding of loan commitments. In addition to the level of liquid assets, such as cash, cas
h 
equivalents and AFS securities, many other factors affect the ability to meet liquidity needs, including access to a variety of
 
funding sources, maintaining borrowing capacity in national money 
markets, growing core depos
its, the repayment of loans 
and the ability to securitize or pa
ckage loans for sale. BB&T monito
rs key liquidity metrics at both the Parent Company and 
Branch Bank. 
 
Parent Company 
 
The purpose of the Parent Company is to serve as the primary capital financing vehicle for the operating subsidiaries. The 
assets of the Parent Company consist pr
imarily of cash on deposit with Branch 
Bank, equity investments in subsidiaries, 
advances to subsidiaries, accounts receivable from subsidiaries, and other miscellaneous assets. The principal obligations of 
the Parent Company are principal and interest payments on long-term debt. The main sources of funds for the Parent 
Company are dividends and management fees from subsidiaries, 
repayments of advances to subsidiaries, and proceeds from 
the issuance of equity and long-term debt. The primary uses 
of funds by the Parent Company are for investments in 
subsidiaries, advances to subsidiaries, dividend payments
 to common and preferred shareholders, retirement of common 
stock and interest and principal 
payments due on long-term debt. 
 
The primary source of funds used for Parent Company cash requirements was dividends received from subsidiaries, which 
totaled $1.3 billion during 2013. 
In addition, the Parent Company issued $1.0 b
illion of senior notes and repaid $500 million 
of maturing long-term debt. Funds raised through master note agreements with commercial clients are placed in a note 
receivable at Branch Bank primarily for its use in meeting short-term funding needs and, to a lesser extent, to support the 
short-term temporary cash needs of the Parent Company. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, master note balances totaled $24 
million and $37 million, respectively. 
 
Liquidity at the Parent Company is more susceptible to ma
rket disruptions. BB&T prudently 
manages cash levels at the 
Parent Company to cover a minimum of one year of projected 
contractual cash outflows which includes unfunded external 
commitments, debt service, preferred divide
nds and scheduled debt maturities without
 the benefit of any new cash infusions. 
Generally, BB&T maintains a significant buffe
r above the projected one year of contra
ctual cash outflows. In determining the 
buffer, BB&T considers cash for common divide
nds, unfunded commitments to affiliate
s, being a source of strength to its 
banking subsidiaries, and being able to withstand sustained market disruptions which may limit access to the capital markets. 
As of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, the Parent Company had 27 months and 35 months, respectively, of cash 
on hand to satisfy projected contractua
l cash outflows as described above. 
 
Branch Bank 
 
BB&T carefully manages liquidity risk at Branch Bank.  Branc
h Bank™s primary source of funding is customer deposits.  
Continued access to customer deposits is highly dependent on the confidence the public has in the stability of the bank and its
 
ability to return funds to the 
client when requested. BB&T mainta
ins a strong focus on its repu
tation in the market to ensure 
continued access to client deposits. BB&T integrates its risk appetite into its overall risk management framework to ensure 
the bank does not exceed its risk tolerance through its lending
 and other risk taking func
tions and thus risk becoming 
undercapitalized. BB&T believes that sufficient capital is paramount
 to maintaining the confidence
 of its depositors and other 
funds providers. BB&T has extensive capital management processes in place to ensure it maintains sufficient capital to 
absorb losses and maintain a hi
ghly capitalized position that will in
still confidence in the bank 
and allow continued access to
 
deposits and other funding sources. Branch Bank monitors
 many liquidity metrics at the bank including funding 
concentrations, diversification, maturity dist
ribution, contingent funding needs and 
ability to meet liquidity requirements 
under times of stress.   
 
Branch Bank has several major sources of funding to meet its
 liquidity requirements, including access to capital markets 
through issuance of senior or subordinated bank notes and institutional CDs, access to the FHLB system, dealer repurchase 
agreements and repurchase agreements with commercial clients, access to the overnight and term Federal funds markets, use 
of a Cayman branch facility, access to retail brokered CDs and a borrower in custody program with the FRB for the discount 
window. As of December 31, 2013, BB&T has approximately $57.3 billion of secured borrowing capacity, which represents 
approximately 357% of one year wholesale funding maturities. 
 
  
78 
 
BB&T also monitors the ability to meet customer demand for fu
nds under both normal and 
stressed market conditions. In 
considering its liquidity position, management evaluates BB&T
™s funding mix based on clien
t core funding, client rate-
sensitive funding and non-client rate-sensitive 
funding. In addition, management also evaluates exposure to rate-sensitive 
funding sources that mature in one year or less. Management 
also measures liquidity needs against 30 days of stressed cash 
outflows for Branch Bank. To ensure a st
rong liquidity position, management maintain
s a liquid asset buffer of cash on hand 
and highly liquid unpledged securities. 
The Company has established a policy th
at the liquid asset buffer would be a 
minimum of 5% of total assets, but intends to maintain the r
atio well in excess of this level. As of December 31, 2013 and 
December 31, 2012, BB&T™s liquid asset buffer was 14.6% and 11.1%, respectively, of total assets. 
 
The ability to raise funding at competitive pr
ices is affected by the rating agencies
™ views of the Parent Company™s and 
Branch Bank™s credit quality, liquidity, capital 
and earnings. Management meets with th
e rating agencies on a regular basis to 
discuss current outlooks. The ratings for 
BB&T and Branch Bank by the four major rating agencies are detailed in the table 
below: 
 
Table 34
Credit Ratings of BB&T Corporation and Branch Bank 
December 31, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
S&P
Moody's 
 
Fitch 
 
DBRS 
 
 
BB&T Corporation:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial Paper 
A-2 
P-1 
 
F1 
 
R-1(low) 
 
 
 
Issuer 
A- 
A2 
 
A+ 
 
A(high) 
 
 
 
LT/Senior debt 
A- 
A2 
 
A+ 
 
A(high) 
 
 
 
Subordinated debt 
BBB+ 
A3 
 
A 
 
A 
 
 
Branch Bank: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Bank financial strength 
N/A 
B- 
 
a+ 
 
N/A 
 
 
 
Long term deposits 
N/A 
A1 
 
AA- 
 
AA(low) 
 
 
 
LT/Senior unsecured bank notes 
A 
A1 
 
A+ 
 
AA(low) 
 
 
 
Other long term senior obligations 
A 
A1 
 
A+ 
 
AA(low) 
 
 
 
Other short term senior obligations 
A-1 
P-1 
 
F1 
 
R-1(middle) 
 
 
 
Short term bank notes 
A-1 
P-1 
 
F1 
 
R-1(middle) 
 
 
 
Short term deposits 
N/A 
P-1 
 
F1+ 
 
R-1(middle) 
 
 
 
Subordinated bank notes 
A- 
A2 
 
A 
 
A(high) 
 
 
Ratings Outlook: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Credit Trend 
Negative
Negative
 
Stable 
 
Stable 
 
 
BB&T and Branch Bank have Contingency Fu
nding Plans designed to ensure that liq
uidity sources are sufficient to meet 
their ongoing obligations an
d commitments, particularly in the event of a liqui
dity contraction. These plans are designed to 
examine and quantify the organization™s liquidity under variou
s ﬁstressﬂ scenarios. Additionally, the plans provide a 
framework for management and other criti
cal personnel to follow in the event of 
a liquidity contraction or in anticipation of 
such an event. The plans address authority for activation and decision making, liquidity options and the responsibilities of 
key departments in the event of a liquidity contraction. The li
quidity options available to ma
nagement could include seeking 
secured funding, asset sales, and under the most extreme scenarios, curtailing new loan originations.  
 
Management believes current sources of liquidity are adequate
 to meet BB&T™s current require
ments and plans for continued 
growth. See Note 4 ﬁPremises and Equipment,ﬂ Note 9 ﬁLong-
Term Debtﬂ and Note 14 ﬁCommitments and Contingenciesﬂ 
in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statementsﬂ for additi
onal information regarding outstan
ding balances of sources of 
liquidity and contractual commitments and obligations. 
 
Contractual Obligations, Commitments, Contingent Liabilit
ies, Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements, And Related Party 
Transactions  
 
The following table presents, as of December 31, 2013, BB&T™s contractual obligations by payment date. The payment 
amounts represent those amounts contractually due to the recipient. The table excludes liabilities recorded where 
management cannot reasonab
ly estimate the timing of any payments that may 
be required in connec
tion with these liabilities. 
Further discussion of the nature of each obligation is included in
 Note 14 ﬁCommitments and Con
tingenciesﬂ in the ﬁNotes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements.ﬂ 
 
  
79 
 
Table 35
Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments 
December 31, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Less than 
1 to 3 
 
3 to 5 
After 5 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total
 
One Year 
Years 
 
Years 
Years 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
Long-term debt 
$
 21,210 
$
 2,143 
$
 7,293 
 
$
 4,629 
$
 7,145 
Operating leases 
 1,508 
 214 
 383 
 
 297 
 614 
Commitments to fund affordab
le housing investments 
 464 
 291 
 153 
 
 13 
 7 
Private equity commitments (1) 
 245 
 45 
 139 
 
 56 
 5 
Time deposits 
 24,983 
 16,775 
 6,810 
 
 1,398 
 

   
Contractual interest payments (2) 
 4,014 
 836 
 1,331 
 
 798 
 1,049 
 
Total contractual cash obligations 
$
 52,424 
$
 20,304 
$
 16,109 
 
$
 7,191 
$
 8,820 
 (1) 
Maturities are based on estimated payment dates. 
 (2) 
Includes accrued interest, future contractual interest obligations and the impact of hedges used to manage interest rate 
risk. Variable rate payments are based upon the rate in effect at December 31, 2013. 
 
BB&T™s significant commitments include investments in afford
able housing and historic build
ing rehabilitation projects 
throughout its market area and 
private equity funds. Refer to Note 1 ﬁSumma
ry of Significant Accounting Policiesﬂ and to 
Note 14 ﬁCommitments and Contingenciesﬂ 
in the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financ
ial Statementsﬂ for further discussion of 
these commitments. 
 
In addition, BB&T enters into derivative contracts to manage va
rious financial risks. A derivative is a financial instrument 
that derives its cash flows, and therefore its
 value, by reference to an underlying in
strument, index or re
ferenced interest ra
te. 
Derivative contracts are carried at fair va
lue on the Consolidated
 Balance Sheets with the f
air value representing the net 
present value of expected future cash receipts or payments based on market interest rates as of the balance sheet date. 
Derivative contracts are written in amounts referred to as no
tional amounts, which only prov
ide the basis for calculating 
payments between counterparties and are not a measure of fina
ncial risk. Therefore, the deriva
tive liabilities rec
orded on the 
balance sheet as of December 31, 2013 do not represent the amounts that may ultimately be paid under these contracts. 
Further discussion of derivative instruments is included in 
Note 1 ﬁSummary of Significant Accounting Policiesﬂ and Note 
18 ﬁDerivative Financial Instrume
ntsﬂ in the ﬁNotes to Cons
olidated Financial Statements.ﬂ  
 
In the ordinary course of business, BB&T indemnifies its officer
s and directors to the fullest 
extent permitted by law against 
liabilities arising from litigation. BB&T also i
ssues standard representation and warra
nties in underwriting agreements, 
merger and acquisition agreements, loan sale
s, brokerage activities and other similar a
rrangements. Counterparties in many of 
these indemnifications provide similar indemnifications to BB
&T. Although these agreements often do not specify 
limitations, BB&T does not believe that any pa
yments related to these guarantees would materially change the financial 
condition or results of 
operations of BB&T.  
 
BB&T holds public funds in certain states 
that do not require 100% collateralization on 
public fund bank deposits. In these 
states, should the failure of another pu
blic fund depository institutio
n result in a loss for the 
public entity, the resulting 
shortfall would have to be absorb
ed on a pro-rata basis by the remaining financ
ial institutions holding public funds in that 
state.  
 
As a member of the FHLB, BB&T is required to maintain a minimu
m investment in capital stoc
k. The board of directors of 
the FHLB can increase the minimum investment requirements in
 the event it has concluded th
at additional capital is required 
to allow it to meet its own regulatory capital 
requirements. Any increase 
in the minimum investment requirements outside of 
specified ranges requires the approval of the Federal Housin
g Finance Agency. Because the extent of any obligation to 
increase BB&T™s investment in the FHLB depends entirely upon th
e occurrence of a future even
t, potential future payments 
to the FHLB are not determinable.  
 
In the normal course of business, BB&T is also a party to fina
ncial instruments to meet the fi
nancing needs of clients and to 
mitigate exposure to interest rate risk. 
Such financial instruments include co
mmitments to extend credit and certain 
contractual agreements, including standby letters of credit and fi
nancial guarantee arrangements. Further discussion of 
BB&T™s commitments is included in Note 14 ﬁCommitments an
d Contingenciesﬂ and Note 17 ﬁFair Value Disclosuresﬂ in 
the ﬁNotes to Consolidated Financial Statements.ﬂ  
 
  
80 
 
Related Party Transactions 
 
The Company may extend credit to its officers and directors in th
e ordinary course of business. These loans are made under 
substantially the same terms as comparable third-party lending arrangements and are in compliance with applicable banking 
regulations. 
 
Capital 
 
The maintenance of appropriate levels of capital is a management 
priority and is monitored on a regular basis. BB&T™s 
principal goals related to the maintenance 
of capital are to provide adequate capital 
to support BB&T™s risk profile consistent
 
with the Board-approved ri
sk appetite, provide financial flex
ibility to support future growth 
and client needs, comply with 
relevant laws, regulations, and superv
isory guidance, achieve optimal credit r
atings for BB&T and its subsidiaries and 
provide a competitive ret
urn to shareholders. 
 
Management regularly monitors the capital 
position of BB&T on both a consolidated an
d bank level basis. In this regard, 
management™s overriding policy is to main
tain capital at levels that are in exce
ss of the operating capital guidelines, which 
are above the regulatory ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ levels. Management has implemented stressed capital ratio minimum guidelines 
to evaluate whether capital ratio
s calculated with planned capital actions are likely
 to remain above minimums specified by 
the FRB for the annual CCAR. Breaches of stressed minimum 
guidelines prompt a review of the planned capital actions 
included in BB&T™s capital plan. 
 
Table 36
BB&T's Internal Capital Guidelines Prior to Basel III 
 
 
Operating 
 
Stressed 
 
 
Tier 1 Capital Ratio 
 10.0 
% 
 
 7.5 
%
 
 
Total Capital Ratio 
 12.0 
 
 
 9.5 
 
 
 
Tier 1 Leverage Capital Ratio 
 7.0 
 
 
 5.0 
 
 
 
Tangible Capital Ratio 
 6.0 
 
 
 4.0 
 
 
 
Tier 1 Common Equity Ratio 
 8.5 
 
 
 6.0 
 
 
 
Payments of cash dividends to BB&T™s shareholders and repurchases of common shares are the methods used to manage any 
excess capital generated. In addition, management closely monito
rs the Parent Company™s doub
le leverage ratio (investments 
in subsidiaries as a percentage of sh
areholders™ equity) with th
e intention of maintaining the 
ratio below 125%. The active 
management of the subsidiaries™ equity capital, as described ab
ove, is the process used to manage this important driver of 
Parent Company liquidity and is a key element in
 the management of BB&T™s capital position. 
 
The capital of BB&T™s subsidiaries is regularl
y monitored to determine if the levels 
that management believes are the most 
beneficial and efficient for their operations are maintained. Ma
nagement intends to maintain capital at Branch Bank at levels 
that will result in classification as ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ for regulato
ry purposes. Secondarily, it is management™s intent to 
maintain Branch Bank™s capital at levels that re
sult in regulatory ri
sk-based capital ratios that ar
e generally comparable with
 
peers of similar size, complexity and risk profile. If the capital levels of Branch Bank increase above these guidelines, exces
s 
capital may be transferred to the Parent Co
mpany, subject to regulatory and other 
operating considerations, in the form of 
special dividend payments. 
 
While nonrecurring events 
or management decisions may result in the Co
mpany temporarily falling below its operating 
minimum guidelines for one or more of thes
e ratios, it is management™s intent throug
h capital planning to return to these 
targeted operating minimums within a re
asonable period of time. Such temporary de
creases below the operating minimums 
shown above are not considered an infringement of BB&T™s ove
rall capital policy provided a return above the minimums is 
forecast to occur within a reasonable time period. 
 
On March 14, 2013, the FRB informed
 BB&T that it objected to certain qualitativ
e elements of its capital plan. BB&T 
resubmitted its plan on June 11, 2013
. On August 23, 20
13, BB&T announced that the FRB di
d not object to 
the Company™s 
revised plan. 
 
Risk-based capital ratios, which include 
Tier 1 Capital, Total Capital and Tier 1 
Common Equity, are calculated based on 
regulatory guidance related to 
the measurement of capital and risk-weighted assets.  
 
BB&T™s Tier 1 common equity ratio was 9.9% at December 31, 2013 compared to 9.0% at December 31, 2012. The increase 
in regulatory capital was primarily due to
 strong capital gener
ation during 2013. 
  
81 
 
 
BB&T regularly performs stress testing on its capital levels and is 
required to periodically subm
it the company™s capital plans
 
to the banking regulators. Management™s capital deployment pl
an in order of preference is to focus on organic growth, 
dividends, strategic opportun
ities and share repurchases. 
 
 
Table 37
 
 
Capital Ratios
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
 
2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Risk-based: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tier 1 (1) 
 
 11.8 
%
 
 10.5 
%
 
 
 
Total (1) 
 
 14.3 
 
 
 13.4 
 
 
 
Leverage capital 
 
 9.3 
 
 
 8.2 
 
 
 
N
on-GAAP capital measures (2) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tangible common equity as a percentage of tangible assets 
 
 7.3 
%
 
 6.5 
%
 
 
 
Tier 1 common equity as a percentage of risk-weighted assets (1) 
 
 9.9 
 
 
 9.0 
 
 
 
 
Tangible common equity (book value) per common share (3) 
$ 
 18.08 
 
$
 16.53 
 
 
 
Calculations of tangible common equity, Tier 
1 common equity and tangible assets (2): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total shareholders' equity 
$ 
 22,809 
 
$
 21,223 
 
 
 
 
Less: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preferred stock 
 
 2,603 
 
 
 2,116 
 
 
 
 
 
N
oncontrolling interests 
 
 50 
 
 
 65 
 
 
 
 
 
Intangible assets 
 
 7,383 
 
 
 7,477 
 
 
 
 
Tangible common equity 
 
 12,773 
 
 
 11,565 
 
 
 
 
Add: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulatory adjustments 
 
 698 
 
 
 692 
 
 
 
 
Tier 1 common equity (Basel I) 
$ 
 13,471 
 
$
 12,257 
 
 
 
 
Total assets 
$ 
 183,010 
 
$
 184,499 
 
 
 
 
Less: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Intangible assets 
 
 7,383 
 
 
 7,477 
 
 
 
 
Tangible assets (3) 
$ 
 175,627 
 
$
 177,022 
 
 
 
Total risk-weighted assets (1) 
$ 
 136,489 
 
$
 136,367 
 
 
 
Common shares outstanding at end of period (in thousands) 
 
 706,620 
 
 
 699,728 
 
 
(1) Tier 1 capital, total capital and Tier 1 common equity ratios as of December 31, 2012 were previously reported on 
BB&T™s December 31, 2012 Form 10-K as 11.0%, 13.9% and 9.3%, respectively. Risk-weighted assets as of December 
31, 2012 was previously reported on BB&T™s December 31, 2012 Form 10-K as $131.1 billion. 
(2) Tangible common equity, Tier 1 comm
on equity and related ratios are non-GAAP measures. Management uses these 
measures to assess the quality of capital and 
believes that investors may find them useful in their analysis of the 
Company. These capital measures are not necessarily comparable to similar capital measures that may be presented by 
other companies. 
(3) During 2013, the calculation of
 tangible book value per common share was 
revised to be based on tangible common 
equity whereas this calculation was prev
iously based upon Tier 1 common equit
y. In addition, the calculation of tangible 
assets was revised to no longe
r include deferred taxes on 
intangible assets. Previously presented information has been 
revised to conform to the current presentation. 
 
BB&T™s estimated common equity Tier 1 ratio under Basel II
I, on a fully phased-in basis, was approximately 9.6% at 
December 31, 2013 based on management™s interpretation of the final rules adopted by the FRB on July 2, 2013, which 
established a new comprehensive capital framework for U.S. 
banking organizations. The minimum required common equity 
Tier 1 ratio, including the capital conservation buffer, will gradua
lly increase from 4.5% on Ja
nuary 1, 2015 to 7.0% on 
January 1, 2019. The fo
llowing table presents the calculation of the Tier 
1 common equity ratio under the U.S. Basel III 
guidelines: 
 
  
82 
 
Table 38
Basel III Capital Ratios (1) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2013
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
Tier 1 common equity under Basel I definition 
$ 
 13,471
 
 
 
 
N
et impact of differences between Basel I and Basel III definitions 
 
 98
 
 
 
Tier 1 common equity under Basel III definition 
$ 
 13,569
 
 
 
Risk-weighted assets under Basel III definition 
$ 
 141,962
 
 
 
Common equity Tier 1 ratio under Basel III 
 
 9.6
%
 
 (1) 
Regulatory capital information is prelimin
ary. The Basel III amounts and related common equity Tier 1 ratio reflects 
management's interpretation of the re
gulatory requirements on a fully phased-in basis and is subject to change. 
 
Table 39
Quarterly Financial Summary

Unaudited 
 
 
 
 
2013
2012 
 
 
 
 
Fourth
 
Third
Second 
First 
Fourth 
Third
 
 
Second 
First 
 
 
 
 
Quarter
 
Quarter
Quarter 
Quarter 
Quarter 
Quarter 
 
Quarter 
Quarter 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions, except per share data)
 
Consolidated Summary of Operations:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest income 
$
 1,566 
$
 1,639
$
 1,643 
$
 1,659
$
 1,726 
$
 1,720 
 
$
 1,728 
$
 1,743
 
Interest expense 
 204 
 222
 228 
 237
 250 
 237 
 
 266 
 307
 
Provision for credit losses 
 60 
 92
 168 
 272
 252 
 244 
 
 273 
 288
 
Securities gains (losses), net 
 
 5 
 
 -
 
 23 
 
 23
 
 

   
 
 (1)
 
 
 (2)
 
 (9)
 
Other noninterest income 
 
 980 
 
 905
 
 1,023 
 
 978
 
 1,020 
 
 964 
 
 
 968 
 
 880
 
N
oninterest expense 
 
 1,456 
 
 1,471
 
 1,496 
 
 1,414
 
 1,488 
 
 1,529 
 
 
 1,426 
 
 1,385
 
Provision for income taxes (1) 
 
 243 
 
 450
 
 221 
 
 481
 
 207 
 
 177 
 
 
 191 
 
 189
 
N
et income (1) 
 
 588 
 
 309
 
 576 
 
 256
 
 549 
 
 496 
 
 
 538 
 
 445
 
N
oncontrolling interest 
 
 14 
 
 4
 
 16 
 
 16
 
 13 
 
 2 
 
 
 20 
 
 14
 
Preferred stock dividends 
 
 37 
 
 37
 
 13 
 
 30
 
 30 
 
 25 
 
 
 8 
 
 

  
 
N
et income available to common 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
shareholders (1) 
$
 537 
$
 268
$
 547 
$
 210
$
 506 
$
 469 
 
$
 510 
$
 431
 
Basic EPS (1) 
$
 0.76 
$
 0.38
$
 0.78 
$
 0.30
$
 0.72 
$
 0.67 
 
$
 0.73 
$
 0.62
 
Diluted EPS (1) 
$
 0.75 
$
 0.37
$
 0.77 
$
 0.29
$
 0.71 
$
 0.66 
 
$
 0.72 
$
 0.61
Selected Average Balances: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assets 
$
 179,534 
$
 181,021
$
 182,508 
$
 182,013
$
 182,807 
$
 179,845 
 
$
 177,383 
$
 174,439
 
Securities, at amortized cost 
 
 37,022 
 
 36,547
 
 36,719 
 
 36,801
 
 36,383 
 
 35,260 
 
 
 37,114 
 
 36,589
 
Loans and leases (2) 
 
 117,001 
 
 118,265
 
 117,852 
 
 116,981
 
 117,103 
 
 115,609 
 
 
 111,760 
 
 110,403
 
Total earning assets 
 
 156,045 
 
 156,985
 
 157,197 
 
 156,620
 
 156,863 
 
 153,918 
 
 
 152,385 
 
 150,494
 
Deposits 
 
 125,906 
 
 127,948
 
 129,983 
 
 130,437
 
 131,762 
 
 128,695 
 
 
 125,348 
 
 124,606
 
Short-term borrowings 
 
 3,865 
 
 4,637
 
 5,118 
 
 4,217
 
 3,340 
 
 3,478 
 
 
 3,362 
 
 3,452
 
Long-term debt 
 
 20,756 
 
 19,447
 
 18,287 
 
 18,690
 
 18,689 
 
 19,682 
 
 
 22,544 
 
 21,720
 
Total interest-bearing liabilities 
 
 115,180 
 
 117,788
 
 119,802 
 
 120,826
 
 121,942 
 
 121,865 
 
 
 123,611 
 
 123,605
 
Shareholders' equity 
 
 22,305 
 
 22,139
 
 21,789 
 
 21,315
 
 21,188 
 
 20,125 
 
 
 18,737 
 
 17,829
(1)
 
Results for the first and third quarters of 2013 include tax adjustments of $281 million and $235 million, respectively. 
(2) 
Loans and leases are net of unearned income and include LHFS. 
 
Fourth Quarter Results 
 
Consolidated net income available to comm
on shareholders for the fourth quarter of 
2013 totaling $537 million was up 6.1% 
compared to $506 million earned during the same period in 
2012. On a diluted per common share basis, earnings for the 
fourth quarter of 2013 were $0.75, up 5.6% compared to $0.71 fo
r the same period in 2012. BB&T™s results of operations for 
the fourth quarter of 2013 produced an annualized return on average assets of 1.30% and an annualized return on average 
common shareholders™ equity of 10.85% compared to pri
or year ratios of 1.19% and 10.51%, respectively. 
 
  
83 
 
Total FTE revenues were $2.4 billion for the fourth quarter of 201
3, down $151 million compared
 to the fourth quarter of 
2012. The decrease in total reve
nues included a $116 million decline in FTE net 
interest income, primarily driven by lower 
yields on new loans and the sale of a consumer lending su
bsidiary during October 2013. NIM was 3.56%, down 28 basis 
points compared to the fourth quarter of 2012, which reflec
ts covered loan run-off and lower yields on new loans and 
securities, partially offset by lower funding costs. Noninterest in
come decreased $35 million, prim
arily attributable to a $131
 
million decline in mortgage banking income
, partially offset by a $31 million gain
 on the sale of a consumer lending 
subsidiary, a $22 million improvem
ent in FDIC loss share income 
and other smaller increases.  
 
Noninterest expense was $1.5 billion for th
e fourth quarter of 2013, a decrease of $3
2 million, or 2.2%, compared to the 
fourth quarter of 2012. The decrease in noninterest expense was primarily due to a $37 million decline in foreclosed property 
expense.  
 
The provision for credit losses, 
excluding covered loans, for the fourth quarter
 of 2013 totaled $71 million, a decline of $185
 
million from the fourth quarter of
 2012, as a result of continued improvement
 in credit quality. Net charge-offs, excluding 
covered loans, for the fourth quarter of 2013 were $154 mill
ion lower than the fourth quarter of 2012 reflecting improved 
credit quality. NPAs declined $483 m
illion, or 31.4% compared to 
the fourth quarter of 2012. 
 
The provision for income taxes 
was $243 million for the fourth quarter of 2013
 compared to $207 million for the fourth 
quarter of 2012. The effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of 
2013 was 29.2% compared to 27.4% for the prior year™s fourth 
quarter. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to
 higher levels of pre-tax ea
rnings relative to permanent ta
x 
differences in 2013
 compared to 2012. 
 
Non-GAAP Information 
 
Certain amounts have been presented that exclude the eff
ect of the $516 million of adjust
ments for uncertain income tax 
positions that were recognized during 20
13. BB&T believes these adjusted measur
es are meaningful as excluding the 
adjustments increases the comparability of certain period-to-peri
od results. The following table
 reconciles these adjusted 
measures to their corresponding GAAP amount: 
 
Table 40
Non-GAAP Reconciliations 
 
 
 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2013 
As Reported 
 
Tax 
Adjustments 
 
Excluding Tax 
Adjustments 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions, except per share data) 
 
 
 
N
et income available to common shareholders 
$
 1,562 
 
$ 
 516 
 
$ 
 2,078 
 
 
 
Weighted average number of diluted common shares (thousands) 
 
 714,363 
 
 
 
 
 
 714,363 
 
 
 
Diluted EPS 
$
 2.19 
 
 
 
 
$ 
 2.91 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et income 
$
 1,729 
 
$ 
 516 
 
$ 
 2,245 
 
 
 
Average assets 
 
 181,262 
 
 
 296 
 
 
 181,558 
 
 
 
Return on average assets 
 
 0.95 
%
 
 
 
 
 1.24 
%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et income available to common shareholders 
$
 1,562 
 
$ 
 516 
 
$ 
 2,078 
 
 
 
Average common shareholders' equity 
 
 19,397 
 
 
 296 
 
 
 19,693 
 
 
 
Return on average common shareholders' equity 
 
 8.06 
%
 
 
 
 
 10.55 
%
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Income before income taxes 
$
 3,124 
 
 
 
 
$ 
 3,124 
 
 
 
Provision for income taxes 
 
 1,395 
 
$ 
 (516)
 
 
 879 
 
 
 
Effective tax rate 
 
 44.7 
%
 
 
 
 
 28.1 
%
 
  
84 
 
ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
 
 
Management™s Report on Internal Control Over Financia
l Reporting and Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and 
Procedures 
 
Management of BB&T is responsible for establishing and mainta
ining adequate internal control 
over financial reporting as 
defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act. The Company™s 
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed 
to provide reasonable assurance regardin
g the reliability of financial reporting and 
the preparation of financial statements fo
r 
external purposes in accordance with GAAP. BB&T™s internal co
ntrol over financial reporting includes those policies and 
procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records
, that in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the 
transactions and disposition of the Company™s assets; (2) provide
 reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as 
necessary to permit the preparation of the financial statements in accordance with GAAP and that receipts and expenditures 
of the Company are being made only in accordance with the 
authorizations of BB
&T™s management and 
directors; and (3) 
provide reasonable assurance regarding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized ac
quisition, use or disposition of the 
Company™s assets that could have a material impact on the financial statements. 
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, 
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
 are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate 
due to changes in conditions, or 
that the degree of compliance 
with the policies and pro
cedures may deteriorate. 
 
Under the supervision and w
ith the participation of managemen
t, including the Chief Exec
utive Officer and the Chief 
Financial Officer, the Company conducted an evaluation of the e
ffectiveness of the internal cont
rol over financial reporting 
based on the framework in 
ﬁInternal ControlŠIntegrated Frameworkﬂ pr
omulgated by the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (1992 Framework), co
mmonly referred to as the ﬁCOSOﬂ criteria. Based on this 
evaluation under the COSO criteria, management concluded that 
the internal control over financ
ial reporting was effective as 
of December 31, 2013. 
 
As of the end of the period covered by this report, the ma
nagement of the Company, under the supervision and with the 
participation of the Company™s Chief Execu
tive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, carried out an evaluation of the 
Company™s disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Ru
le 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act. Based on that evaluation, 
the Chief Executive Officer 
and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Comp
any™s disclosure contro
ls and procedures are 
effective. 
 
There was no change in the Company™s internal control over fi
nancial reporting that occurred 
during the fourth quarter of 
2013 that has materially affected, or 
is likely to materially affect, the Company™s 
internal control over financial reporting. 
 
The effectiveness of the Company™s internal control over financia
l reporting as of December 31, 2013 has been audited by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their accompanying report, 
which expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of th
e Company™s internal control over financial reporting as of 
December 31, 2013. 
  
  
85 
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
 
 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
 
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of BB&T Corporation:  
 
In our opinion, the accompanying 
consolidated balance
 sheets and the related conso
lidated statements of income, 
comprehensive income, changes in shareholders™ equity and 
cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial 
position of BB&T Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 
2013 and 2012, and 
the results of their operations and 
their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2013 in conformity with accounting principles 
generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, 
effective internal control over financial reporting as 
of December 31, 2013, based on criteria established in 
Internal 
ControlŠIntegrated Framework
 (1992) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission 
(COSO). The Company™s management is 
responsible for these financial statement
s, for maintaining effective internal control 
over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectivenes
s of internal control over financial reporting, included in 
the 
accompanying Management™s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions 
on these financial statements and on the Company™s internal contro
l over financial reporting base
d on our integrated audits. 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards 
of the Public Company Accounti
ng Oversight Board (United 
States). Those standards requ
ire that we plan and perform the audits to 
obtain reasonable assura
nce about whether the 
financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was 
maintained in all material respects. 
Our audits of the financial statements inclu
ded examining, on a 
test basis, evidence 
supporting the amounts and disclosures in th
e financial statements, assessing the acco
unting principles used and significant 
estimates made by management, and evalua
ting the overall financial st
atement presentation. Our aud
it of internal control over 
financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of intern
al control over financial reportin
g, assessing the risk that a
 
material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design
 and operating effectiveness of 
internal control based on the 
assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. 
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
 
A company™s internal control over financial reporting is a pr
ocess designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the 
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financia
l statements for external purposes in accordance with general
ly 
accepted accounting principles. A company™s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures 
that (i) pertain to the maintenan
ce of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to 
permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and 
expenditures of the company are being made
 only in accordance with authorizations
 of management and directors of the 
company; and (iii) provide reasonable ass
urance regarding prevention or timely de
tection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or 
disposition of the company™s assets that could ha
ve a material effect on the financial statements. 
 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, 
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods
 are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate 
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
 
/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
 
Charlotte, North Carolina  
 
February 26, 2014 
  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
 
86 
 
BB&T CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
December 31, 2013 and 2012 
(Dollars in millions, except per 
share data, shares in thousands) 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
 
2012 
Assets 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash and due from banks  
$ 
 1,565 
$
 1,975 
 
Interest-bearing deposits with banks  
 
 452 
 
 942 
 
Federal funds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements or similar  
 
 
 
 
 
 
arrangements  
 
 148 
 
 122 
 
Restricted cash 
 
 422 
 
 750 
 
Trading securities at fair value  
 
 381 
 
 497 
 
AFS securities at fair value ($1,393
 and $1,591 covered by FDIC loss 
 
 
 
 
 
 
share at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively) 
 
 22,104 
 
 25,137 
 
HTM securities (fair value of $17,53
0 and $13,848 at December 31, 2013 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 and December 31, 2012, respectively) 
 
 18,101 
 
 13,594 
 
LHFS at fair value 
 
 1,222 
 
 3,761 
 
Loans and leases ($2,035
 and $3,294 covered by FDIC loss share at December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively) 
 
 115,917 
 
 114,603 
 
ALLL 
 
 (1,732)
 
 (2,018)
 
 
Loans and leases, net of ALLL 
 
 114,185 
 
 112,585 
 
Premises and equipment  
 
 1,869 
 
 1,888 
 
Goodwill  
 
 6,814 
 
 6,804 
 
Core deposit and other intangible assets  
 
 569 
 
 673 
 
Residential MSRs at fair value  
 
 1,047 
 
 627 
 
Other assets ($163 and $297 of foreclosed property and other assets covered by FDIC 
 
 
 
 
 
 
loss share at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively) 
 
 14,131 
 
 15,144 
 
 
 
Total assets  
$ 
 183,010 
$
 184,499 
Liabilities and Shareholders™ Equity
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deposits: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
oninteres
t
-bearing deposits  
$ 
 34,972 
$
 32,452 
 
 
Interest-bearing deposits 
 
 92,503 
 
 100,623 
 
 
 
Total deposits  
 
 127,475 
 
 133,075 
 
Short-term borrowings 
 
 4,138 
 
 2,864 
 
Long-term debt  
 
 21,493 
 
 19,114 
 
Accounts payable and other liabilities  
 
 7,095 
 
 8,223 
 
 
 
Total liabilities  
 
 160,201 
 
 163,276 
 
Commitments and contingencies (Note 14) 
 
 
 
 
 
Shareholders™ equity: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Preferred stock, $5 par, liquidation preference of $25,000 per share 
 
 2,603 
 
 2,116 
 
 
Common stock, $5 par  
 
 3,533 
 
 3,499 
 
 
Additional paid-in capital  
 
 6,172 
 
 5,973 
 
 
Retained earnings  
 
 11,044 
 
 10,129 
 
 
AOCI, net of deferred income taxes 
 
 (593)
 
 (559)
 
 
N
oncontrolling interests 
 
 50 
 
 65 
 
 
 
Total shareholders™ equity  
 
 22,809 
 
 21,223 
 
 
 
Total liabilities and shareholders™ equity  
$ 
 183,010 
$
 184,499 
 
Common shares outstanding  
 
 706,620 
 
 699,728 
 
Common shares authorized  
 
 2,000,000 
 
 2,000,000 
 
Preferred shares outstanding 
 
 107 
 
 87 
 
Preferred shares authorized  
 
 5,000 
 
 5,000 
  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
 
87 
 
BB&T CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME  
Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 
(Dollars in millions, except per 
share data, shares in thousands)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013  
 
 
2012  
2011  
Interest Income 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest and fees on loans and leases  
$
 5,603 
 
$ 
 5,980 
$
 6,119 
 
Interest and dividends on securities  
 
 871 
 
 
 907 
 
 747 
 
Interest on other earning assets  
 
 33 
 
 
 30 
 
 19 
 
 
 
Total interest income  
 
 6,507 
 
 
 6,917 
 
 6,885 
Interest Expense
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest on deposits  
 
 301 
 
 
 429 
 
 610 
 
Interest on short-term borrowings 
 
 6 
 
 
 7 
 
 11 
 
Interest on long-term debt  
 
 584 
 
 
 624 
 
 757 
 
 
 
Total interest expense  
 
 891 
 
 
 1,060 
 
 1,378 
Net Interest Income 
 
 
 5,616 
 
 
 5,857 
 
 5,507 
 
Provision for credit losses  
 
 592 
 
 
 1,057 
 
 1,190 
Net Interest Income After Provision for Credit Losses 
 
 5,024 
 
 
 4,800 
 
 4,317 
Noninterest Income
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insurance income 
 
 1,517 
 
 
 1,359 
 
 1,044 
 
Service charges on deposits 
 
 584 
 
 
 566 
 
 563 
 
Mortgage banking income 
 
 565 
 
 
 840 
 
 436 
 
Investment banking and brokerage fees and commissions 
 
 383 
 
 
 365 
 
 333 
 
Bankcard fees and merchant discounts 
 
 256 
 
 
 236 
 
 204 
 
Trust and investment advisory revenues 
 
 200 
 
 
 184 
 
 173 
 
Checkcard fees 
 
 199 
 
 
 185 
 
 271 
 
Income from bank-owned life insurance 
 
 113 
 
 
 116 
 
 122 
 
FDIC loss share income, net 
 
 (293)
 
 
 (318)
 
 (289)
 
Other income 
 
 362 
 
 
 299 
 
 194 
 
Securities gains (losses), net 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Realized gains (losses), net  
 
 51 
 
 
 (3)
 
 174 
 
 
 
OTTI charges 
 
 

   
 
 
 (5)
 
 (22)
 
 
 
N
on-credit portion recognized in OCI 
 
 

   
 
 
 (4)
 
 (90)
 
 
 
 
 
Total securities gains (losses), net  
 
 51 
 
 
 (12)
 
 62 
 
 
 
Total noninterest income  
 
 3,937 
 
 
 3,820 
 
 3,113 
Noninterest Expense
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Personnel expense 
 
 3,293 
 
 
 3,125 
 
 2,727 
 
Occupancy and equipment expense 
 
 692 
 
 
 650 
 
 616 
 
Loan-related expense 
 
 255 
 
 
 283 
 
 227 
 
Professional services 
 
 189 
 
 
 156 
 
 174 
 
Software expense 
 
 158 
 
 
 138 
 
 118 
 
Regulatory charges 
 
 143 
 
 
 159 
 
 212 
 
Amortization of intangibles 
 
 106 
 
 
 110 
 
 99 
 
Foreclosed property expense 
 
 55 
 
 
 266 
 
 802 
 
Merger-related and restructuring charges, net 
 
 46 
 
 
 68 
 
 16 
 
Other expense 
 
 900 
 
 
 873 
 
 811 
 
 
 
Total noninterest expense  
 
 5,837 
 
 
 5,828 
 
 5,802 
Earnings
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Income before income taxes  
 
 3,124 
 
 
 2,792 
 
 1,628 
 
Provision for income taxes  
 
 1,395 
 
 
 764 
 
 296 
 
 
 
Net income 
 
 
 1,729 
 
 
 2,028 
 
 1,332 
 
N
oncontrolling interests  
 
 50 
 
 
 49 
 
 43 
 
Dividends on preferred stock 
 
 117 
 
 
 63 
 
 

   
 
 
 
Net income available to common shareholders 
 
$
 1,562 
 
$ 
 1,916 
$
 1,289 
EPS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Basic  
$
 2.22 
 
$ 
 2.74 
$
 1.85 
 
 
 
Diluted  
$
 2.19 
 
$ 
 2.70 
$
 1.83 
 
Cash dividends declared  
$
 0.92 
 
$ 
 0.80 
$
 0.65 
Weighted Average Shares Outstanding
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Basic  
 
 703,042 
 
 
 698,739 
 
 696,532 
 
 
 
Diluted  
 
 714,363 
 
 
 708,877 
 
 705,168 
  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
 
88 
 
BB&T CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  
Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 
(Dollars in millions)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013  
 
 
2012  
2011  
Net Income  
$
 1,729 
 
$ 
 2,028 
$
 1,332 
OCI, Net of Tax:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change in unrecognized pension and postretirement amounts 
 
 411 
 
 
 (111)
 
 (235)
 
Change in unrecognized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges 
 
 175 
 
 
 (14)
 
 (112)
 
Unrealized net holding gains (losses) arising during the period on AFS securities  
 
 (640)
 
 
 327 
 
 437 
 
Change in amounts attributable to the FDIC under loss share agreements 
 
 21 
 
 
 (61)
 
 (19)
 
Other, net 
 
 (1)
 
 
 13 
 
 (37)
 
 
Total OCI 
 
 (34)
 
 
 154 
 
 34 
 
 
Total comprehensive income 
$
 1,695 
 
$ 
 2,182 
$
 1,366 
Income Tax Effect of Items Included in OCI:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change in unrecognized pension and postretirement amounts 
$
 252 
 
$ 
 (70)
$
 (143)
 
Change in unrecognized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges 
 
 106 
 
 
 (9)
 
 (67)
 
Unrealized net holding gains (losses) arising during the period on AFS securities  
 
 (384)
 
 
 200 
 
 261 
 
Change in amounts attributable to the FDIC under loss share agreements 
 
 14 
 
 
 (38)
 
 (11)
 
Other, net 
 
 2 
 
 
 6 
 
 (21)
  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
 
89 
 
BB&T CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS™ EQUITY  
Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 
(Dollars in millions, except per 
share data, shares in thousands)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Shares of 
Common 
Stock
 
 
Preferred 
Stock
Common 
Stock
Additional 
Paid-In 
Capital
Retained 
Earnings
AOCI
 
 
Noncontrolling 
Interests
 
Total 
Shareholders' 
Equity
Balance, January 1, 2011 
 694,381 
 
$ 
 

   
$
 3,472 
$
 5,776 
$
 7,935 
$
 (747)
 
$ 
 62 
$
 16,498 
Add (Deduct):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et income  
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 1,289 
 
 

   
 
 
 43 
 
 1,332 
 
N
et change in OCI 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 34 
 
 
 

   
 
 34 
 
Stock transactions: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In purchase acquisitions 
 26 
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 1 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 1 
 
 
In connection with equity awards 
 1,963 
 
 
 

   
 
 10 
 
 (9)
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 1 
 
 
Shares repurchased in connection  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with equity awards 
 (651)
 
 
 

   
 
 (3)
 
 (15)
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 (18)
 
 
In connection with dividend 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reinvestment plan 
 586 
 
 
 

   
 
 3 
 
 13 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 16 
 
 
In connection with 401(k) plan 
 838 
 
 
 

   
 
 4 
 
 19 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 23 
 
Cash dividends declared on common stock 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 (453)
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 (453)
 
Equity-based compensation expense  
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 98 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 98 
 
Other, net  
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 (10)
 
 1 
 
 

   
 
 
 (43)
 
 (52)
Balance, December 31, 2011
 
 697,143 
 
$ 
 

   
$
 3,486 
$
 5,873 
$
 8,772 
$
 (713)
 
$ 
 62 
$
 17,480 
Add (Deduct):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et income  
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 1,979 
 
 

   
 
 
 49 
 
 2,028 
 
N
et change in OCI 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 154 
 
 
 

   
 
 154 
 
Stock transactions: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In purchase acquisitions 
 28 
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 1 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 1 
 
 
In connection with equity awards 
 3,147 
 
 
 

   
 
 16 
 
 17 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 33 
 
 
Shares repurchased in connection 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with equity awards 
 (590)
 
 
 

   
 
 (3)
 
 (15)
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 (18)
 
 
In connection with preferred stock 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
offerings 
 

   
 
 
 2,116 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 2,116 
 
Cash dividends declared on common stock 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 (559)
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 (559)
 
Cash dividends declared on preferred stock 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 (63)
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 (63)
 
Equity-based compensation expense  
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 97 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 97 
 
Other, net  
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 (46)
 
 (46)
Balance, December 31, 2012
 
 699,728 
 
$ 
 2,116 
$
 3,499 
$
 5,973 
$
 10,129 
$
 (559)
 
$ 
 65 
$
 21,223 
Add (Deduct):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et income  
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 1,679 
 
 

   
 
 
 50 
 
 1,729 
 
N
et change in OCI 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 (34)
 
 
 

   
 
 (34)
 
Stock transactions: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In connection with equity awards 
 6,257 
 
 
 

   
 
 31 
 
 74 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 105 
 
 
Shares repurchased in connection 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
with equity awards 
 (879)
 
 
 

   
 
 (4)
 
 (23)
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 (27)
 
 
In connection with dividend 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
reinvestment plan 
 656 
 
 
 

   
 
 3 
 
 19 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 22 
 
 
In connection with 401(k) plan 
 858 
 
 
 

   
 
 4 
 
 25 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 29 
 
 
In connection with preferred stock 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
offering 
 

   
 
 
 487 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 487 
 
Cash dividends declared on common stock 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 (647)
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 (647)
 
Cash dividends declared on preferred stock 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 (117)
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 (117)
 
Equity-based compensation expense  
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 96 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 96 
 
Other, net  
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 8 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 (65)
 
 (57)
Balance, December 31, 2013
 
 706,620 
 
$ 
 2,603 
$
 3,533 
$
 6,172 
$
 11,044 
$
 (593)
 
$ 
 50 
$
 22,809 
  
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
 
90 
 
BB&T CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  
Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 
(Dollars in millions)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013 
 
2012 
2011 
Cash Flows From Operating Activities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et income  
$
 1,729 
 
$ 
 2,028 
$
 1,332 
 
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash from operating activities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Provision for credit losses  
 
 592 
 
 
 1,057 
 
 1,190 
 
 
 
Adjustment to income tax provision 
 
 516 
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 
Depreciation  
 
 315 
 
 
 281 
 
 264 
 
 
 
Amortization of intangibles  
 
 106 
 
 
 110 
 
 99 
 
 
 
Deferred tax expense 
 
 288 
 
 
 419 
 
 185 
 
 
 
Equity-based compensation  
 
 96 
 
 
 97 
 
 98 
 
 
 
(Gain) loss on securities, net  
 
 (51)
 
 
 12 
 
 (62)
 
 
 
N
et write-downs/losses on foreclosed property 
 
 28 
 
 
 168 
 
 655 
 
 
 
N
et change in operating assets and liabilities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LHFS 
 
 2,445 
 
 
 (433)
 (583)
 
 
 
 
 
 
FDIC loss share receivable/payable 
 
 365 
 
 
 590 
 
 869 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Other assets  
 
 (273)
 
 
 (800)
 
 (240)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accounts payable and other liabilities  
 
 (812)
 
 
 346 
 
 572 
 
 
 
Other, net  
 
 (5)
 
 
 (161)
 
 (103)
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et cash from operating activities  
 
 5,339 
 
 
 3,714 
 
 4,276 
Cash Flows From Investing Activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proceeds from sales of AFS securities  
 
 2,209 
 
 
 303 
 
 4,006 
 
Proceeds from maturities, calls and paydowns of AFS securities  
 
 6,214 
 
 
 4,396 
 
 3,271 
 
Purchases of AFS securities 
 
 (6,463)
 
 
 (7,026)
 
 (13,926)
 
Proceeds from maturities, calls and paydowns of HTM securities 
 
 2,863 
 
 
 5,536 
 
 1,828 
 
Purchases of HTM securities 
 
 (7,399)
 
 
 (5,055)
 
 (7,578)
 
Originations and purchases of loans and leases, net of principal collected  
 
 (3,077)
 
 
 (6,651)
 
 (6,240)
 
N
et cash from divestitures  
 
 522 
 
 
 

   
 

   
 
N
et cash from business combinations 
 
 (6)
 
 
 675 
 (86)
 
Proceeds from sales of foreclosed property 
 
 394 
 
 
 799 
 
 1,017 
 
Other, net  
 
 503 
 
 
 (24)
 
 (299)
 
 
 
N
et cash from investing activities  
 
 (4,240)
 
 
 (7,047)
 
 (18,007)
Cash Flows From Financing Activities:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et change in deposits  
 
 (5,600)
 
 
 4,676 
 
 17,799 
 
N
et change in short-term borrowings 
 
 1,274 
 
 
 (702)
 
 (2,107)
 
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt  
 
 4,164 
 
 
 2,327 
 
 2,010 
 
Repayment of long-term debt  
 
 (1,634)
 
 
 (5,112)
 
 (2,190)
 
N
et proceeds from preferred stock issued  
 
 487 
 
 
 2,116 
 
 

   
 
Cash dividends paid on common stock  
 
 (765)
 
 
 (531)
 
 (446)
 
Cash dividends paid on preferred stock  
 
 (147)
 
 
 (33)
 
 

   
 
Other, net  
 
 248 
 
 
 55 
 
 154 
 
 
 
N
et cash from financing activities  
 
 (1,973)
 
 
 2,796 
 
 15,220 
Net Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents 
 
 
 (874)
 
 
 (537)
 
 1,489 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at Beginning of Period 
 
 3,039 
 
 
 3,576 
 
 2,087 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Period 
 
$
 2,165 
 
$ 
 3,039 
$
 3,576 
Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow Information:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash paid (received) during the period for: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest  
$
 918 
 
$ 
 1,120 
$
 1,404 
 
 
 
Income taxes  
 
 677 
 
 
 347 
 
 (82)
 
N
oncash investing and financing activities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transfer of AFS securities to HTM securities 
 
 

   
 
 
 1 
 
 8,341 
 
 
 
Transfers of loans to foreclosed assets 
 
 609 
 
 
 770 
 
 1,359 
 
 
 
Transfers of loans held for investment to LHFS 
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 226 
  
91 
 
NOTE 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
 
 
General 
 
See the Glossary of Defined Terms at the beginning of this
 Report for terms used thr
oughout the consolidated financial 
statements and related notes of this Form 10-K. 
 
The accounting and reporting policies are in accordance with GAAP. Additionally, where applicable, the policies conform to 
the accounting and reporting guid
elines prescribed by bank re
gulatory authorities. The following
 is a summary of the more 
significant accounting policies. 
 
Nature of Operations 
 
BB&T is an FHC organized under the laws of North Carolina. BB&
T conducts operations throug
h a bank subsidiary, Branch 
Bank, and its nonbank subsidiaries. Branch Bank has offices in
 North Carolina, Virg
inia, Florida, Georgia, Maryland, South 
Carolina, West Virginia, Kentucky, Alabama, Tennessee, Texas,
 Washington DC and Indiana. BB&T provides a wide range 
of banking services to indivi
duals, businesses and municipalities. BB&T offers
 a variety of loans and lease financing to 
individuals and entities primarily within BB&T™s geographic fo
otprint, including insurance premium financing; permanent 
CRE financing arrangements; loan servicing for third-party inve
stors; direct consumer finance loans to individuals; credit 
card lending; automobile financing; factoring and equipment fi
nancing. BB&T also markets a wide range of other services, 
including deposits; discount and full se
rvice brokerage, annuities and mutual funds
; life insurance, property and casualty 
insurance, health insura
nce and commercial general liability in
surance on an agency basis an
d through a wholesale insurance 
brokerage operation; trust and retirement 
services; comprehensive wealth
 advisory services; asse
t management and capital 
markets services.  
 
Principles of Consolidation 
 
The consolidated financial statements includ
e the accounts of BB&T Corporation and t
hose subsidiaries that are majority 
owned by BB&T and over which BB&T exercises control. Intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in 
consolidation. The results of operations of 
companies or assets acquired 
are included only from the 
dates of acquisition. All 
material wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries are consolidated unless GAAP requires otherwise. 
 
BB&T holds investments in certain legal en
tities that are considered VIEs. VIEs are 
legal entities in which 
equity investors 
do not have sufficient equity at risk for 
the entity to independently finance its ac
tivities, or as a group, 
the holders of the
 
equity investment at risk lack the power 
through voting or similar ri
ghts to direct the activities of the entity that most 
significantly impact its economic performance, or do not have the obligation to absorb the expected losses of the entity or the
 
right to receive expected residual returns of the entity. Consolidation of a VIE is required if a reporting entity is the prima
ry 
beneficiary of the VIE. 
 
BB&T evaluates its investments in VIEs to determine if BB&T is
 the primary beneficiary. This
 evaluation give
s appropriate 
consideration to the design of 
the entity and the variability th
at the entity was designed to 
pass along, the relative power of
 
each party, and to BB&T™s relative obligation to absorb losses or receive residual returns of the entity, in relation to such 
obligations and rights held by each party. BB&T holds a variable interest in its Tender Option Bond program trusts, which 
allow for tax-advantaged financing of certain debt instruments 
issued by tax-exempt entities
. As of December 31, 2013, 
BB&T was considered the primary beneficiary of the Tender Op
tion Bond program trusts, re
sulting in the 
consolidation of 
approximately $2.0 billion of assets and 
$1.9 billion of liabilities. BB&T also has var
iable interests in certain entities that
 
were not required to be consolidated, including affordable hous
ing partnership interests, historic tax credit partnerships, and
 
other partnership interests. Refer to Note 14 ﬁCommitments 
and Contingenciesﬂ for additional disclosures regarding BB&T™s 
significant VIEs. 
 
BB&T accounts for unconsolidated partnerships and similar i
nvestments using the equity method of accounting. BB&T also 
has investments in, and future funding commi
tments to, private equity investments. 
 
BB&T has noncontrolling interests in certain entities for which the 
Company records its portion of income or loss in other 
noninterest income in the Cons
olidated Statements of Income. These investments 
are periodically evaluated for impairment. 
 
  
92 
 
Reclassifications 
 
During 2013, the Company revised its prio
r practice of offsetting amounts due to and 
from the FDIC under the loss sharing 
agreements such that the amounts related to securities and the aggregate loss calculation are now reported in Accounts 
payable and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. In certain instances, other amounts reported in prior years™ 
consolidated financial statements have been reclassified to
 conform to the current year presentation. Such reclassifications 
had no effect on previously reported cash fl
ows, shareholders™ equity or net income. 
 
Use of Estimates in the Preparation of Financial Statements 
 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GA
AP requires management to make estimates and assumptions 
that affect the reported amounts of ass
ets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date o
f the 
financial statements and the re
ported amounts of revenues and expenses duri
ng the reporting periods. Actual results could 
differ from those estimates. Material estimates that are particu
larly susceptible to signif
icant change include the 
determination of the ACL, determination of fair value for fina
ncial instruments, valuation of goodwill, intangible assets and 
other purchase accounting related adjustments, benefit plan obligations and expenses, and tax assets, liabilities and expense. 
 
Business Combinations 
 
BB&T accounts for all business comb
inations using the acquisition method of acc
ounting. The accounts 
of an acquired entity 
are included as of the date of acquisition, 
and any excess of purchase price over the 
fair value of the net assets acquired is 
capitalized as goodwill. 
 
BB&T typically issues common stock and/
or pays cash for an acquisition, depend
ing on the terms of the acquisition 
agreement. The value of common 
shares issued is determined ba
sed upon the market price of the 
stock as of the closing of 
the acquisition. 
 
BB&T may issue options to purchase shares of its common stock in
 exchange for options to purchase shares of the acquired 
entities that are outstanding at the time th
e merger is completed. To the extent vested, 
the options are considered to be part 
of 
the purchase price paid. There is no change in the aggregate intr
insic value of the options issued
 compared to the intrinsic 
value of the options held immed
iately before the exchange, no
r does the ratio of the exercise 
price per option to the market 
value per share change. 
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents 
 
Cash and cash equivalents include cash and due from banks, in
terest-bearing deposits with banks, Federal funds sold and 
securities purchased under resale agreements or similar arrange
ments. Cash and cash equivalents have maturities of three 
months or less. Accordingly, the carryin
g amount of such instruments is considered a reasonable estimate of fair value. 
 
Restricted Cash 
 
Restricted cash represents amoun
ts posted as collateral for de
rivatives in a loss position.  
 
Securities 
 
BB&T classifies marketable investment securities as HTM, AFS or 
trading. Interest income and dividends on securities are 
recognized in income on an accrual basis. Premiums and disc
ounts on debt securities are am
ortized as an adjustment to 
interest income using the interest method. 
 
Debt securities are classified as HTM where BB&T has both the 
intent and ability to 
hold the securities 
to maturity. These 
securities are reported at amortized cost. 
 
Debt securities, which may be sold to meet liquidity needs ar
ising from unanticipated deposit an
d loan fluctuations, changes 
in regulatory capital requir
ements, or unforeseen changes in
 market conditions, are classified as AFS. AFS securities are 
reported at estimated fair value, with unrealized gains and lo
sses reported in AOCI, net of deferred income taxes, in the 
shareholders™ equity section of the Conso
lidated Balance Sheets. Gains or losses re
alized from the sale of AFS securities are 
determined by specific identification and 
are included in noninterest income. 
 
  
93 
 
Each HTM and AFS security in a loss positio
n is evaluated for OTTI. BB&T considers such factors as the length of time and 
the extent to which the market value has been below amortized co
st, long term expectations and recent experience regarding 
principal and interest payments, BB&T™s in
tent to sell and whether it is more lik
ely than not that the Company would be 
required to sell those securities before the anticipated recovery of the amortized cost basis. The credit component of an OTTI 
loss is recognized in earnings and the 
non-credit component is recognized in 
AOCI in situations wh
ere BB&T does not 
intend to sell the security and it is more
-likely-than-not that BB&T will not be required
 to sell the security prior to recover
y. 
Subsequent to recognition of OTTI, an increase in expected cash 
flows is recognized as a yield adjustment over the remaining 
expected life of the security based on an evaluation of the nature of the increase. 
 
Trading account securities, wh
ich include both debt and equity securities, ar
e reported at fair value. Unrealized market value 
adjustments, fees, and realized gains or losses from trading account activities (determined by specific identification) are 
included in noninterest income. Interest inco
me on trading account securities is includ
ed in interest on other earning assets. 
 
LHFS 
 
BB&T accounts for new originations of pr
ime residential and commercial mortgage LHFS at fair value. BB&T accounts for 
the derivatives used to economically hedge 
the LHFS at fair value. The fair value 
of LHFS is primarily based on quoted 
market prices for securities collateralized by similar types of loans.
 Direct loan origination fees and costs related to LHFS a
re 
not capitalized and are recorded as mort
gage banking income in the case of the di
rect loan origination fees and primarily 
personnel expense in the case of the direct loan origination co
sts. Gains and losses on sales of mortgage loans are included in
 
mortgage banking income. Gains and losses on sales of 
commercial LHFS are included in 
other noninterest income. 
 
Loans and Leases 
 
The Company™s accounting methods fo
r loans differ depending on whether the 
loans are originated or acquired, and if 
acquired, whether or not the acquired loans reflect credit dete
rioration since the date of origination such that it is probable
 at 
the date of acquisition that BB&T will be unable 
to collect all contractually required payments. 
 
Originated Loans and Leases 
 
Loans and leases that management has the in
tent and ability to hold for th
e foreseeable future are reported at their outstandin
g 
principal balances net of any unearned income, charge-off
s, and unamortized fees and costs. The net amount of 
nonrefundable loan origination fees and certain direct costs 
associated with the lending process are deferred and amortized to 
interest income over the contractua
l lives of the loans using methods th
at approximate the interest method. 
 
BB&T classifies loans and leases as past due when the payment 
of principal and interest based upon contractual terms is 
greater than 30 days delinquent or if one payment is past due. When commercial loans are placed on nonaccrual status as 
described below, a charge-off is recorded, as applicable, to decrease the carrying value of such loans to the estimated 
recoverable amount. Consumer loans are su
bject to mandatory charge-off at a spec
ified delinquency date consistent with 
regulatory guidelines. As such, consumer lo
ans are subject to collateral valuation and charge-off, as applicable, when they are
 
moved to nonaccrual status as described below. 
 
Purchased Loans 
 
Purchased loans are recorded at their fair value at the acquisiti
on date. Credit discounts are incl
uded in the determination of
 
fair value; therefore, an ALLL is not recorded at the acquisition date. 
 
Acquired loans are evalu
ated upon acquisition and classif
ied as either purchased impair
ed or purchased non-impaired. 
Purchased impaired loans reflect credit deterioration since 
origination such that it is proba
ble at acquisition that BB&T will 
be unable to collect all contractually requ
ired payments. For purchased impaired loans, expected cash flows at the acquisition 
date in excess of the fair value 
of loans are recorded as interes
t income over the life of the 
loans using a level yield method
 if 
the timing and amount of the future cash flows is reasonably estimable. Subsequent to the acquisition date, increases in cash 
flows over those expected at the acquisition date are recognized pro
spectively as interest income. Decreases in expected cash 
flows after the acquisition date are recognized by recording 
an ALLL. For purchased non-imp
aired loans, the difference 
between the fair value and UPB of the loan at the acqu
isition date is amortized or accreted to interest income over the 
estimated life of the loans using a method 
that approximates the interest method. 
 
Based on the characteristics of loans acquired in a FDIC-assisted transaction and the impact of associated loss sharing 
arrangements, BB&T determined that it was appropriate to appl
y the expected cash flows approach described above to all 
loans acquired in such transactions. 
  
94 
 
 
TDRs 
 
Modifications to a borrower™s debt agreement are considered TDRs if a concession is granted for economic or legal reasons 
related to a borrower™s financial difficulties that otherwise would no
t be considered. TDRs are undertaken in order to improve 
the likelihood of recovery on the 
loan and may take the form of
 modifications made with the stated interest rate lower than 
the current market rate for new debt with similar risk, other m
odifications to the structure of 
the loan that fall outside of 
normal underwriting policies and procedures, or in certain limited circumstances forgiveness of principal or interest. 
Modifications of covered loans 
that are part of a pool acco
unted for as a single asset are not considered TDRs. TDRs can 
involve loans remaining on nonaccrual, m
oving to nonaccrual, or continuing on accrui
ng status, depending on the individual 
facts and circumstances of the borrower. In circumstances where the TDR involves charging off a portion of the loan balance, 
BB&T typically classifies these TDRs as nonaccrual. 
 
In connection with commercial TDRs, the decision to maintain a loan that has been restructured on accrual status is based on 
a current, well documented credit evalua
tion of the borrower™s fina
ncial condition and prospects for repayment under the 
modified terms. This evaluation includes consideration of the borrow
er™s current capacity to pa
y, which among other things 
may include a review of the borrower™s current financial statements, an analysis of cash flow available to pay debt 
obligations, and an evaluation of secondar
y sources of payment from the client and any guarantors. This evaluation also 
includes an evaluation of the borrower™s curre
nt willingness to pay, which may include 
a review of past payment history, an 
evaluation of the borrower™s willingness to provide information on a timely basis, and consideration of offers from the 
borrower to provide additional collateral or guarantor support. The credit evaluation also reflects consideration of the 
borrower™s future capacity and willingness to pay, which may include evaluation of cash flow projections, consideration of 
the adequacy of collateral to cover all pr
incipal and interest and trends indic
ating improving prof
itability and collectability
 of 
receivables. 
 
The evaluation of mortgage and consumer loans includes an eval
uation of the client™s debt to income ratio, credit report, 
property value, loan vintage, and certain other client-specific
 factors that impact their ability
 to make timely principal and 
interest payments on the loan. 
 
Nonaccrual commercial TDRs may be returned to accrual status 
based on a current, well-documented credit evaluation of the 
borrower™s financial condition and prospects for repayment 
under the modified terms. Th
is evaluation must include 
consideration of the 
borrower™s sustained historical repayment performance 
for a reasonable period (generally a minimum of 
six months) prior to the date on which the loan is returned to accrual status. Sustained historical repayment performance for a
 
reasonable time prior to the TDR may be taken into account. 
In connection with retail TDRs, a NPL will be returned to 
accruing status when current as to principal and interest and upon a sustained historical repayment performance (generally a 
minimum of six months). 
 
NPAs 
 
NPAs include NPLs and foreclosed property. Foreclosed property consists of real estate and other assets acquired as a result 
of customers™ loan defaults. BB&T™s policies for placing loans on nonaccrual status conform to guidelines prescribed by 
bank regulatory authorities. The majority of commercial loans and leases are placed on nonaccrual status when it is probable 
that principal or interest is not 
fully collectible, or generally when
 principal or interest becomes 90 days past due, whicheve
r 
occurs first. Other lending subsidiaries™ loans, which includes both consumer and commercial loans, are placed on nonaccrual 
status generally when principal and interest becomes 90 days 
past due. Direct retail, mortgage and sales finance loans are 
placed on nonaccrual status at varying intervals, based on the type of product, generally when principal and interest becomes 
between 90 days and 180 days past due. Revolving credit loans are not placed on nonaccrual but are charged off after they 
become 150 days past due, with unpaid fees and finance ch
arges reversed against interest income. Covered loans are 
considered to be performing due to the application of the expected cash flows method. 
 
Certain loans past due 90 days or more may remain on accrual status if management determines that it does not have concern 
over the collectability of principal and interest. Generally, when loans are placed on nonaccrual status, accrued interest 
receivable is reversed against interest income in the current period. Interest payments received thereafter are applied as a 
reduction to the remaining principal bala
nce as long as concern exists as to
 the ultimate collection of the principal. 
Nonaccrual mortgage loans are accounted for using the cash basis. Loans and leases are generally removed from nonaccrual 
status when they become current
 as to both principal and in
terest and concern no longer ex
ists as to the collectability of 
principal and interest. 
 
  
95 
 
Assets acquired as a result of foreclosure are subsequently carried at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Net realizabl
e 
value equals fair value less estimated selling costs. Any ex
cess of cost over net realizable va
lue at the time of foreclosure i
s 
charged to the ALLL. NPAs are subject to periodic revaluations
 of the collateral underlying impaired loans and foreclosed 
real estate. The periodic revaluatio
ns are generally based on the appraised valu
e of the property and 
may include additional 
liquidity adjustments based upon the expect
ed retention period. BB&T™s policies requir
e that valuations be updated at least 
annually and that upon foreclosure, the va
luation must not be more than six months old, otherwise an updated appraisal is 
required. Routine maintenance costs, other costs of ownership, s
ubsequent declines in market va
lue and net losses on disposal 
are included in foreclosed property expense. 
 
ACL 
 
The ACL includes the ALLL and the RUFC. The ACL represents management™s best estimate of probable credit losses 
inherent in the loan and lease portfolios and off-balance shee
t lending commitments at the balance sheet date. The Company 
determines the ACL based on an ongoing evaluation. This 
evaluation is inherently subjective because it requires material 
estimates, including the amounts and timing of cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans. Those estimates are 
susceptible to significant change. Changes to the ACL are ma
de by charges to the provision for credit losses, which is 
reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Loans or lease balances deemed to be uncollectible are charged off 
against the ALLL. Recoveries of amounts previously charge
d off are credited to the ALLL. The methodology used to 
determine the RUFC is inherently similar to that used 
to determine the collectively evalu
ated component of the ALLL, 
adjusted for factors specific to 
binding commitments, including the probability 
of funding and exposure at default. While 
management uses the best information available to establish the ACL, future adjustments may be necessary if economic 
conditions differ substantially
 from the assumptions used in computing the 
ACL or, if required by regulators, based upon 
information available to them at 
the time of their examinations. 
 
Accounting standards require 
the presentation of certain disclosure info
rmation at the portfolio segment level, which 
represents the level at which an entity develops and documen
ts a systematic methodology to determine its ACL. BB&T 
concluded that its loan and lease portfolio consists of three portfolio segments; commercial, retail and covered. The 
commercial portfolio segment includes CRE, co
mmercial and industrial and other loan
s originated by certain other lending 
subsidiaries, and was identified based on the risk-based approach used to estimate the ALLL for the vast majority of these 
loans. The retail portfolio seg
ment includes direct retail lending, revolving credit,
 residential mortgage, sales finance and 
other loans originated by certain retail-oriented subsidiaries, 
and was identified based on th
e delinquency-b
ased approach 
used to estimate the ALLL. The covered portfolio segment was id
entified based on the expected cash flows approach used to 
estimate the ALLL related to acquired loans subsequent to December 31, 2008. 
 
A portion of the ALLL may not be allocated to any specific
 category of loans. Any unallocate
d portion of the ALLL reflects 
management™s best estimate of the elements
 of imprecision and estimation risk 
inherent in the calculation of the overall 
ALLL. During 2013, BB&T incorporated these elements into 
the ALLL determination for each loan category such that there 
is not an unallocated ALLL as of December 31, 2013. 
 
The entire amount of the ACL is available to absorb lo
sses on any loan category or lending-related commitment. 
 
The following provides a description of accounting policies and methodologies related to each of the portfolio segments: 
 
Commercial 
 
The vast majority of loans in the commer
cial lending portfolio are assigned risk ratings based on an assessment of conditions 
that affect the borrower™s ability to meet cont
ractual obligations under the loan agre
ement. This process includes reviewing 
borrowers™ financial information, historical payment experi
ence, credit documentation, public information, and other 
information specific to each borrower. Risk ratings are reviewed on
 an annual basis for all cred
it relationships with total 
credit exposure of $1 million or more, or at any point manage
ment becomes aware of information affecting the borrowers™ 
ability to fulfill 
their obligations. 
 
Risk Rating  Description 
 
Pass  Loans not considered to be problem credits 
Special Mention  Loans that have a potential we
akness deserving management™s close attention 
Substandard  Loans for which a well-defined weakness 
has been identified that may put full collection of 
contractual cash flows at risk 
 
  
96 
 
For commercial clients with total cred
it exposure less than $1 million, BB&T ha
s developed an automated loan review 
system to identify and proactively mana
ge accounts with a higher risk of loss. The ﬁscoreﬂ produced by this automated 
system is updated monthly. 
 
On a quarterly basis, BB&T reviewed all commercial lending relations
hips with outstanding debt of
 $5 million or more that 
were classified as substandard or doubtful. 
During the first quarter of 2014, this 
process was revised su
ch that any obligor 
with an outstanding balance of $3 million or more will be revi
ewed. While this review is larg
ely focused on the borrower™s 
ability to repay the loan, BB&T also consid
ers the capacity and w
illingness of a loan™s guarantor
s to support the debt service 
on the loan as a secondary source of repayment. When a guarantor exhibits the documented capacity and willingness to 
support the loan, BB&T may consider extending the loan maturity and/or temporarily deferring principal payments if the 
ultimate collection of both princip
al and interest is not in question. In these 
cases, BB&T may not deem the loan to be 
impaired due to the documented capacity and willingness of the guarantor to repay the loan. Loans are considered impaired 
when the borrower (or guarantor in certain 
circumstances) does not have the cash flow capacity or willingness to service the 
debt according to contractual terms, or it does not appear 
reasonable to assume that the 
borrower will continue to pay 
according to the contractual agreement. BB&T establishes a specific reserve for each loan that has been deemed impaired 
based on the criteria outlined ab
ove. The amount of the rese
rve is based on the present value of expected cash flows 
discounted at the loan™s effective interest 
rate and/or the value of collateral, net of costs to sell. BB&T has also establishe
d a 
review process related to TDRs and other 
impaired loans that are in commercial lendi
ng relationships with outstanding debt 
of less than $5 million at the 
balance sheet date. In conn
ection with this process, BB&T estab
lishes reserves related to these 
loans that are calculated using an expected cash flow approach. These discounted cash flow analyses incorporate adjustments 
to future cash flows that reflect management™s best estimate of 
the default risk related to TDRs based on a combination of 
historical experience and management judgment. 
 
BB&T also maintains reserves for collective im
pairment that reflect an estimate of lo
sses related to non-impaired commercial 
loans as of the balance sheet date. Embedded loss estimates for 
BB&T™s commercial loan portfolio
 are based on estimated 
migration rates, which are estimated based 
on historical experience, and current risk mix as indicated by the risk grading 
process described above. Embedded loss estimates may be ad
justed to reflect current economic conditions and current 
portfolio trends including 
credit quality, concentrations, aging of the port
folio, and significant policy and underwriting 
changes. 
 
Retail 
 
The majority of the ALLL related to the 
retail lending portfolio is calculated on a 
collective basis using delinquency status, 
which is the primary factor considered in determining whet
her a retail loan should be classified as nonaccrual. Embedded 
loss estimates for BB&T™s retail lending portfolio are based 
on estimated migration rates that are developed based on 
historical experience, and current risk mix 
as indicated by prevailing delinquency rates.
 These estimates may be adjusted to 
reflect current economic conditions and current portfolio tren
ds. The remaining portion of th
e ALLL related to the retail 
lending portfolio relates to loans that have been deemed impa
ired based on their classification as a TDR at the balance sheet 
date. BB&T establishes specific reserves related to these TDRs 
using an expected cash flow 
approach. The 
ALLL for retail 
TDRs is based on discounted cash flow analyses that incorporat
e adjustments to future cash flows that reflect management™s 
best estimate of the default risk related to TDRs based on 
a combination of historical experi
ence and management judgment. 
 
Acquired Loans 
 
Purchased impaired loans and all loans acquired in an FDIC-assisted transaction are typically aggregated into loan pools 
based upon common risk characteristics. The ALLL for each loan pool is based on an analysis that is performed each period 
to estimate the expected cash flows. To the extent that the expected cash flows of a loan pool have decreased since the 
acquisition date, BB&T establishes an ALLL. For non-FDIC assis
ted purchased non-impaired loan
s, BB&T uses an approach 
consistent with that described above for originated loans and leases. 
 
Covered Assets and Related FDIC Loss Share Receivable/Payable 
 
Assets subject to loss sharing agreements 
with the FDIC are labeled ﬁcoveredﬂ and in
clude certain loans, securities and other 
assets. The FDIC loss share receivable includes net reimbursements expected to be received from the FDIC for covered loans 
and is included in Other assets on the Con
solidated Balance Sheets. The amounts expected
 to be paid to the FDIC for covered 
securities and the aggreg
ate loss calculation are included in Accounts payable and other liabilities. 
 
  
97 
 
The FDIC™s obligation to reimburse Branch Bank for losses with resp
ect to covered assets begins 
with the first dollar of loss 
incurred. The terms of the loss 
sharing agreement with respect 
to certain non-agency MBS provides that Branch Bank will be 
reimbursed by the FDIC for 95% of any and all losses. All other c
overed assets are subject to a stated threshold of $5 billion 
that provides for the FDIC to r
eimburse Branch Bank for (1) 80% 
of losses incurred up 
to $5 billion and (2) 95% of losses in 
excess of $5 billion. Gains and recoveries on covered assets 
will offset losses, or be paid 
to the FDIC, at the applicable loss
 
share percentage at the time of recovery. Th
e loss sharing agreement applicable to sing
le family residential mortgage loans 
expires in 2019, and provides for FDIC loss sharing and Branch Bank reimbursement to the FDIC. The loss sharing 
agreement applicable to co
mmercial loans and other covered assets expires 
in the third quarter of
 2014; howev
er, Branch 
Bank must reimburse the FDIC for realized 
gains and recoveries through August 2017
. At the conclusion of the loss share 
period, should actual aggregate losses, excluding securities, be less than an amount determined in accordance with these 
agreements, BB&T will pay the FDIC a portion of the difference. 
 
The income statement effect of the changes in the FDIC loss share receivable/payable includes the accretion due to 
discounting and changes in expected net reimbursements. Decr
eases in expected net reimbursements, including the amounts 
expected to be paid to the FDIC as a result of the aggregate 
loss calculation, are reco
gnized in income pr
ospectively over the 
term of the loss share agreements consiste
nt with the approach taken 
to recognize increases in ca
sh flows on covered loans. 
Increases in expected reimbursements are recognized in inco
me in the same period that th
e ALLL for the related loans is 
recognized. 
 
Premises and Equipment
 
 
Premises, equipment, capital leases and leasehold improvements are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and 
amortization. Land is stated at 
cost. In addition, purchased software and cost
s of computer software developed for internal 
use are capitalized provided certain criteria are met. Depreciati
on and amortization are computed principally using the 
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of 
the related assets. Leasehold improvements are amortized on a 
straight-line basis over the lesser of the lease terms, including
 certain renewals that were deemed probable at lease inception
, 
or the estimated useful lives of the impr
ovements. Capitalized leases are amortized using the same methods as premises and 
equipment over the estimated useful lives or lease terms, whic
hever is less. Obligations under capital leases are amortized 
using the interest method to allocate pa
yments between principal reduction and interest expense. Rent expense and rental 
income on operating leases is recorded using the straight-line method over the appropriate lease terms. 
 
Short-Term Borrowings 
 
Federal funds purchased represent unsecure
d borrowings from other banks
 and generally mature da
ily. Securities sold under 
repurchase agreements are borrowings colla
teralized primarily by securities of the 
U.S. government or its agencies and 
generally have maturities ranging from 1 day to 36 months. 
The terms of repurchase agreements may require BB&T to 
provide additional collateral if the fair va
lue of the securities underlying the bo
rrowings declines during the term of the 
agreement. Master notes are unsecured, non-negotiable obligations
 of BB&T (variable rate commercial paper) that mature in 
270 days or less. Other short-term borrowed funds include unsecur
ed bank notes that mature in less than one year and bank 
obligations with a seven day put option 
that are collateralized by municipal securities. 
These amounts are reflected as short-
term borrowings on the Consolidated Balance Sheets and are recorded based on the amount of cash received in connection 
with the borrowing.  
 
Income Taxes 
 
Deferred income taxes have been provided when different accounting methods have been used in determining income for 
income tax purposes and 
for financial reporting purposes. Deferred tax assets
 and liabilities are recogn
ized based on future 
tax consequences attributable to differen
ces between the financial statement carrying
 values of assets
 and liabilities and thei
r 
tax bases. In the event of changes in th
e tax laws, deferred tax assets and liabilities
 are adjusted in the period of the enact
ment 
of those changes, with the cumulative effects includ
ed in the current year™s
 income tax provision. 
 
  
98 
 
Derivative Financial Instruments 
 
A derivative is a financial instrument that derives its cash fl
ows, and therefore its value, by reference to an underlying 
instrument, index or referenced interest rate. These instru
ments include interest rate swaps, caps, floors, collars, financial 
forwards and futures contracts, swaptions, when-issued secu
rities, foreign exchange contracts and options written and 
purchased. BB&T uses derivatives primarily to manage eco
nomic risk related to securities, commercial loans, MSRs and 
mortgage banking operations, long-term debt and other fundin
g sources. BB&T also uses deri
vatives to facilitate transactions 
on behalf of its clients. The fair value of derivatives in a 
gain or loss position is included in other assets or liabilities, 
respectively, on the Con
solidated Balance Sheets. Cash
 collateral posted for derivative in
struments in a loss position is 
included in restricted cash on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
 
BB&T classifies its derivative financial instruments as either (1) a 
hedge of an exposure to changes in the fair value of a 
recorded asset or liability (ﬁfair value he
dgeﬂ), (2) a hedge of an 
exposure to change
s in the cash flows of a recognized asset
, 
liability or forecasted transaction (ﬁcash flow hedgeﬂ), (3) a hedge of a net investment in a subsidiary, or (4) derivatives no
t 
designated as hedges. Changes in the fair value of derivativ
es not designated as hedges are recognized in current period 
earnings. BB&T has master netting agreements with the derivativ
es dealers with which it does
 business, but BB&T presents 
gross assets and liabilities on th
e Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
 
BB&T uses the long-haul method to assess hedge effectiveness. BB&T documents, both at inception and over the life of the 
hedge, at least quarterly, its analysis of actual and expected hedge effectiveness. This analysis includes techniques such as 
regression analysis and hypothetical derivatives to demonstrat
e that the hedge has been, and is expected to be, highly 
effective in off-setting correspondin
g changes in the fair value or cash flows of the hedged item. For cash flow hedges 
involving interest rate caps and collars, th
is analysis also includes consideration of
 whether critical terms match, the strike
 
price of the hedging option matches the specif
ied level beyond (or withi
n) which the entity™s exposure is being hedged, the 
hedging instrument™s inflows (outflows) 
at its maturity date completely offset the 
change in the hedged transaction™s cash 
flows for the risk being hedged and the hedging instrument can
 be exercised only on its contractual maturity date. For a 
qualifying fair value hedge, changes in the 
value of the derivatives that have been 
highly effective as hedges are recognized 
in current period earnings along with the 
corresponding changes in the fair value of
 the designated hedged item attributable to
 
the risk being hedged. For a qualifying cash 
flow hedge, the portion of changes in the 
fair value of the derivatives that have 
been highly effective are recognized in OCI until the related cash 
flows from the hedged item are recognized in earnings. For 
qualifying cash flow hedges involving inter
est rate caps and collars, the initial fair v
alue of the premium paid is allocated a
nd 
recognized in the same future period that the hedged forecasted transaction impacts earnings. 
 
For either fair value hedges or cash flow hedges, ineffectivene
ss may be recognized to the extent that changes in the value of 
the derivative instruments do not perfectly offset changes in the value of the hedged items. If the hedge ceases to be highly 
effective, BB&T discontinues hedge accounting and recognizes 
the changes in fair value in current period earnings. If a 
derivative that qualifies as a fair value or cash flow hedge 
is terminated or the designatio
n removed, the realized or then 
unrealized gain or loss is recognized into income over the life of
 the hedged item (fair value he
dge) or period in which the 
hedged item affects earnings (cash flow 
hedge). Immediate recognition in earnings is 
required upon sale or extinguishment of 
the hedged item (fair value hedge) or if it is probable th
at the hedged cash flows will no
t occur (cash flow hedge). 
 
Derivatives used to manage economic risk not designated 
as hedges primarily represent economic risk management 
instruments of MSRs and mortgage banking operations, with 
gains or losses included in mortgage banking income. In 
connection with its mortgage banking activ
ities, BB&T enters into loan commitments 
to fund residential mortgage loans at 
specified rates and for specified periods of 
time. To the extent that BB&T™s interest 
rate lock commitments relate to loans 
that will be held for sale upon funding, they
 are also accounted for as derivatives, with
 gains or losses included in mortgage 
banking income. Gains and losses on other derivatives used to 
manage economic risk are primarily associated with client 
derivative activity and are included in other income. 
 
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
 
Goodwill represents the cost in
 excess of the fair value of net assets acqui
red (including identifiable intangibles) in 
transactions accounted for as acquisitions. BB&T allocates goodwill to the reporting unit(s) that receives significant benefits
 
from the acquisition. Goodwill is tested at least annually for im
pairment during the fourth quarter of each year and more 
frequently if circumstances exist that indicate a possible reduction in the fair value of the business below its carrying value
. 
BB&T measures impairment using the present value of estimat
ed future cash flows based upon available information. 
Discount rates are based upon the cost of
 capital specific to the indu
stry in which the 
reporting unit operates. If the carryin
g 
value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, a second analysis is performed to measure the fair value of all assets and 
liabilities. If, based on the second 
analysis, it is determined that the fair va
lue of the assets and liabilities of the report
ing unit 
is less than the carrying value, BB&T 
would recognize impairment for the excess of carrying value over fair value. 
  
99 
 
 
CDI and other intangible assets include premiums paid for acq
uisitions of core deposits an
d other identifiable intangible 
assets. Intangible assets other than goodwill, which are de
termined to have finite lives, are amortized based upon the 
estimated economic benefits received. 
 
Loan Securitizations 
 
BB&T enters into loan securitization transactions related to most
 of its fixed-rate commercial and conforming residential 
mortgage loan originations. In connection 
with these transactions, loans are conve
rted into MBS issued primarily by 
FHLMC, FNMA and GNMA, and are subsequently sold to third pa
rty investors. BB&T records loan securitizations as a sale 
when the transferred loans ar
e legally isolated from BB&T™s creditors and 
the other accounting cr
iteria for a sale are met. 
Gains or losses recorded on loan
 securitizations are based in part on the net 
carrying amount of the 
loans sold, which is 
allocated between the lo
ans sold and retained
 interests based on their relative fair values at the date of sale. BB&T generally
 
retains the mortgage servicing on
 loans sold. Since quoted market prices are not typically available, BB&T estimates the fair 
value of these retained interests using modeling techniques to deter
mine the net present value of ex
pected future cash flows. 
Such models incorporate management™s best estimates of key 
variables, such as prepayment speeds, servicing costs and 
discount rates that would be used by market 
participants based on the risks involved. 
 
MSRs 
 
BB&T has two primary classes of MSRs for which it separately mana
ges the economic risks: residential and commercial. 
Residential MSRs are recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets
 primarily at fair value with ch
anges in fair value recorded 
as a component of mortgage banking income. Commercial MSRs
 are recorded as other assets on the Consolidated Balance 
Sheets at the lower of cost or market and are amortized in propor
tion to, and over the estimated period, that net servicing 
income is expected to be received based on projections of the amount and timing of estimated future net cash flows. The 
amount and timing of estimated future net cash flows are u
pdated based on actual results and updated projections. BB&T 
periodically evaluates its commercial MSRs for impairment. 
 
Equity-Based Compensation 
 
BB&T maintains various equity-based compensation plans 
that provide for the granting of st
ock options (incentive and 
nonqualified), stock appreciation rights, 
restricted stock, RSUs, performance units
 and performance shares to selected 
employees and directors. BB&T values share-based awards at 
the grant date fair value and recognizes the expense over the 
requisite service period taking in
to account retirement eligibility. 
 
Pension and Postretirement Benefit Obligations  
 
BB&T offers various pension plans and postretirement benefit pl
ans to employees. Calculation of the obligations and related 
expenses under these plans requires the use of actuarial va
luation methods and assumptions. The discount rate assumption 
used to measure the postretirement benefit ob
ligations is set by reference to a high 
quality corporate bond 
yield curve and the
 
individual characteristics of the plan such as projected cash 
flow patterns and payment durations. The expected long-term rate 
of return on assets is based on the ex
pected returns for each major asset class in which the plan invests, adjusted for the 
weight of each asset class in the target mix. 
 
Insurance Income 
 
Insurance commission revenue is generally recognized at th
e later of the billing date or the effective date of the related 
insurance policies. Insurance premiums from underwriting activities are recognized as income over the policy term. The 
portion of premiums that will be earned in the future is defe
rred and included in other liab
ilities in the Consolidated Balance
 
Sheets. 
 
Segments 
 
Segment results are presented based on internal management
 accounting policies that were designed to support BB&T™s 
strategic objectives. The Other, Treasury and Corporate segment includes financial data from subsidiaries below the 
quantitative and qualitative thresholds requiring disclo
sure. Refer to Note 20 ﬁOperating Segmentsﬂ
 
for additional disclosures 
regarding BB&T™s segments. 
 
  
100 
 
Changes in Accounting Principles and Effects of New Accounting Pronouncements 
 
In January 2014, the FASB i
ssued new guidance related to 
Troubled Debt Restructurings
, which clarifies the timing of when 
an in substance repossession or foreclos
ure of collateralized residential real prop
erty is deemed to have occurred. The 
guidance also requires new disclosures related to the amount of fo
reclosed residential real estate
 property held by the credito
r 
and the recorded investment in consum
er mortgage loans collateralized by reside
ntial real estate property that are in the 
process of foreclosure. This guidance is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 
2014. The adoption 
of this guidance is not expected to
 be material to the cons
olidated financial positi
on, results of operation
s 
or cash flows. 
 
In January 2014, the FASB i
ssued new guidance related to 
Investments in Qualified 
Affordable Housing Projects. 
The new 
guidance allows an entity, provided certain criteria are met, to elect the proportional amortization method to account for thes
e 
investments. The proportional amortization method allows an entity to amortize the initial cost of the investment in 
proportion to the amount of tax credits and other tax benefits received and recognize the net investment performance in the 
income statement as a compon
ent of the provision for income ta
xes. This guidance is effec
tive for interim and annual 
reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2014. BB&T is currently evaluating this guidance to determine the impact on 
its consolidated financial position, re
sults of operations and cash flows. 
 
In June 2013, the FASB issued new guidance related to 
Investment Companies. 
The new guidance amends the criteria for an 
entity to qualify as an investment compan
y and requires an investment company to measure all of its investments at fair 
value. This guidance is effective for interim and annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2013. The adoption 
of this guidance was not material to
 the consolidated financial position, re
sults of operations or cash flows. 
 
Effective January 1, 2013, the Company adopted new guida
nce impacting the presentatio
n of certain items on the 
Balance 
Sheet
. The new guidance requires 
an entity to disclose both gross and ne
t information about derivatives, repurchase 
agreements and securities borrowing and lending transactions that have a right of setoff or are subject to an enforceable 
master netting arrangement or similar agreemen
t. The adoption of this guidance did 
not impact the consolidated financial 
position, results of operations or cash flows. The new disclosures 
required by this gu
idance for derivatives are included in 
Note 18 ﬁDerivative Financial Instrumentsﬂ 
to these consolidated financial statements
. The adoption of th
is guidance did not 
impact our disclosures of repurchase agreements and secur
ities borrowing and lending tran
sactions as the balances and 
volume of transactions are not material.  
 
Effective January 1, 2013, the Co
mpany adopted new guidance on 
Business Combinations. 
The new guidance clarifies that 
when a reporting entity 
recognizes an indemnification asset 
as a result of a government-assi
sted acquisition of a financial 
institution and subsequently a change in
 the cash flows expected to be collected on the indemnification asset occurs, the 
reporting entity should acco
unt for the change in the meas
urement of the indemnification asset on the same basis as the 
change in the assets subject to indemnification. Any amortization 
of changes in value should 
be limited to the lesser of the 
contractual term of the indemnification a
greement or the remaining life of the in
demnified assets. BB&T has previously 
accounted for its indemnification asset in accordance with this guidance; accordingly, the adoption of this guidance had no 
impact on the consolidated financial positio
n, results of operations or cash flows. 
 
Effective January 1, 2013
, the Company adopted new guidance impacting 
Comprehensive Income
 that requires a reporting 
entity to present significant amounts reclassified out of AOCI by the respective line items of net income. The adoption of this
 
guidance did not impact the consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. The new disclosures required 
by this guidance are included in
 Note 11 ﬁAOCIﬂ to these consolidated financial statements. 
  
101 
 
NOTE 2. Securities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amortized
Gross Unrealized 
Fair 
 
 
December 31, 2013
 
 
Cost
Gains 
 
Losses 
Value 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
AFS securities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Treasury 
$
595 
$
 
 Š   
 
$
 
 Š   
$
 
595 
 
 
 
MBS issued by GSE  
 
 18,397 
 
 78 
 
 
 546 
 
 17,929 
 
 
 
States and political subdivisions  
 
 1,877 
 
 65 
 
 
 91 
 
 1,851 
 
 
 
N
on-agency MBS 
 
 264 
 
 27 
 
 
 Š   
 
 291 
 
 
 
Other 
 
 46 
 
 Š   
 
 
 1 
 
 45 
 
 
 
Covered 
 
 989 
 
 404 
 
 
 Š   
 
 1,393 
 
 
 
 
Total AFS securities 
$
 22,168 
$
 574 
 
$ 
 638 
$
 22,104 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HTM securities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Treasury 
$
 392 
$
 Š   
 
$ 
 8 
$
 384 
 
 
 
GSE 
 
 5,603 
 
 2 
 
 
 397 
 
 5,208 
 
 
 
MBS issued by GSE  
 
 11,636 
 
 38 
 
 
 220 
 
 11,454 
 
 
 
States and political subdivisions  
 
 33 
 
 2 
 
 
 Š   
 
 35 
 
 
 
Other 
 
 437 
 
 12 
 
 
 Š   
 
 449 
 
 
 
 
Total HTM securities 
$
 18,101 
$
 54 
 
$ 
 625 
$
 17,530 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amortized
Gross Unrealized 
Fair 
 
 
December 31, 2012
 
 
Cost
Gains 
 
Losses 
Value 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
AFS securities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Treasury 
$
281 
$
 
 Š   
 
$
 
 Š   
$
 
281 
 
 
 
GSE 
 
 9 
 
 Š   
 
 
 Š   
 
 9 
 
 
 
MBS issued by GSE  
 
 20,482 
 
 466 
 
 
 18 
 
 20,930 
 
 
 
States and political subdivisions  
 
 1,948 
 
 153 
 
 
 90 
 
 2,011 
 
 
 
N
on-agency MBS 
 
 307 
 
 16 
 
 11 
 
 312 
 
 
 
Other 
 
 3 
 
 Š   
 
 
 Š   
 
 3 
 
 
 
Covered securities  
 
 1,147 
 
 444 
 
 
 Š   
 
 1,591 
 
 
 
 
Total AFS securities 
$
 24,177 
$
 1,079 
 
$ 
 119 
$
 25,137 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HTM securities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GSE 
$
 3,808 
$
 17 
 
$ 
 1 
$
 3,824 
 
 
 
MBS issued by GSE  
 
 9,273 
 
 238 
 
 
 1 
 
 9,510 
 
 
 
States and political subdivisions  
 
 34 
 
 1 
 
 
 1 
 
 34 
 
 
 
Other 
 
 479 
 
 4 
 
 
 3 
 
 480 
 
 
 
 
Total HTM securities 
$
 13,594 
$
 260 
 
$ 
 6 
$
 13,848 
 
 
As of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, the fair value of covered securities included $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion, 
respectively, of non-agency MBS and $
314 million and $326 million, respec
tively, of municipal securities. 
 
As of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, securities with carrying values of approximately $11.9 billion and $19.0 
billion, respectively, were pledged to se
cure municipal deposits, securities sold 
under agreements to repurchase, other 
borrowings, and for other purposes as required or permitted by law. 
 
Certain investments in marketable debt securities and MBS issued by FNMA and FHLMC exceeded ten percent of 
shareholders™ equity at December 31, 2013. The FNMA investments had total amortized cost and fair value of $13.2 billion 
and $12.7 billion, resp
ectively. The FHLMC investments had total amortized 
cost and fair value of $7.1 billion and $7.0 
billion, respectively. 
 
  
102 
 
The gross realized gains and losses recogn
ized in income on the sale of securities 
are reflected in the following table: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
 
 
 
2012 
 
2011  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Gross gains  
$
 57 
 
$ 
 1 
$
 175 
 
 
Gross losses  
 
 (6)
 
 
 (4)
 
 (1)
 
 
 
N
et realized gains (losses) 
$
 51 
 
$ 
 (3)
$
 174 
 
 
The following table reflects chan
ges in credit losses on securities with OTTI 
(excluding covered), wh
ich were primarily non-
agency MBS, where a portion of the unr
ealized loss was recognized in OCI. OTTI 
of $4 million related to covered securities 
during 2012 is not re
flected in this table. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
 
2012 
2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Balance at beginning of period 
$
 98 
 
$ 
 130 
 
$
 31 
 
 
 
Credit losses on securities not previously considered  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
other-than-temporarily impaired 
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 
 1 
 
 
 
Credit losses on secur
ities for which OTTI was 
previously recognized 
 
 

   
 
 
 5 
 
 
 111 
 
 
 
Reductions for securities so
ld/settled during the period 
 
 (20)
 
 
 (37)
 
 
 (13)
 
 
Balance at end of period 
$
 78 
 
$ 
 98 
 
$
 130 
 
 
The amortized cost and estimated fair
 value of the securities portfolio by contr
actual maturity are shown in the following 
table. The expected life of MBS may differ from contractual 
maturities because borrowers ha
ve the right to prepay the 
underlying mortgage loans with or without prepayment penalties. 
 
 
 
 
 
AFS
 
HTM
 
 
 
 
 
Amortized
Fair 
 
Amortized
 
Fair 
 
 
December 31, 2013
 
Cost 
Value 
 
Cost
 
Value 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Due in one year or less  
$
 189 
$
 189 
 
$ 
 

   
$
 

   
 
 
Due after one year through five years  
 
 565 
 
 573 
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
Due after five years through ten years  
 
 499 
 
 519 
 
 
 5,926 
 
 5,524 
 
 
Due after ten years  
 
 20,915 
 
 20,823 
 
 
 12,175 
 
 12,006 
 
 
 
Total debt securities  
$
 22,168 
$
 22,104 
 
$ 
 18,101 
$
 17,530 
 
 
The following tables present the fair valu
es and gross unrealized losses of investment
s based on the length of time that 
individual securities have been in 
a continuous unrealized loss position: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Less than 12 months
 
12 months or more 
 
Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair
 
Unrealized
Fair 
Unrealized 
 
Fair 
Unrealized
 
 
December 31, 2013
 
Value
Losses 
Value 
Losses 
 
Value 
Losses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
AFS securities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MBS issued by GSE
 
$
 10,259 
$
 406
$
 1,935 
$
 140 
 
$ 
 12,194 
$
 546
 
 
 
States and political subdivisions  
 
 232 
 
 8
 
 441 
 
 83 
 
 
 673 
 
 91
 
 
 
Other 
 
 34 
 
 1
 
 Š   
 
 Š   
 
 
 34 
 
 1
 
 
 
 
Total 
$
 10,525 
$
 415
$
 2,376 
$
 223 
 
$ 
 12,901 
$
 
 638
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HTM securities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Treasury 
$
384 
$
 
8
$
 
 Š   
$
 
 Š   
 
$
 
384 
$
 
8
 
 
 
GSE 
 
 4,996 
 
 397
 
 Š   
 
 Š   
 
 
 4,996 
 
 397
 
 
 
MBS issued by GSE 
 
 8,800 
 
 219
 
 48 
 
 1 
 
 
 8,848 
 
 220
 
 
 
 
Total 
$
 14,180 
$
 624
$
 48 
$
 1 
 
$ 
 14,228 
$
 625
 
 
  
103 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Less than 12 months
 
12 months or more 
 
Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair
 
Unrealized
Fair 
Unrealized 
 
Fair 
Unrealized
 
 
December 31, 2012
 
 
Value
Losses 
Value 
Losses 
 
Value 
Losses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
AFS securities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
MBS issued by GSE 
$
 2,662
$
 18
$
 Š  
$
 Š   
 
$ 
 2,662
$
 18
 
 
 
States and political subdivisions  
 
 52
 
 1
 
 478
 
 89 
 
 
 530
 
 90
 
 
 
N
on-agency MBS 
 
 Š  
 
 Š  
 
 113
 
 11 
 
 
 113
 
 11
 
 
 
 
Total 
$
 2,714
$
 19
$
 591
$
 100 
 
$ 
 3,305
$
 119
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HTM securities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
GSE 
$
 805
$
 1
$
 Š  
$
 Š   
 
$ 
 805
$
 1
 
 
 
MBS issued by GSE 
 
 593
 
 1
 
 Š  
 
 Š   
 
 
 593
 
 1
 
 
 
States and political subdivisions  
 
 22
 
 1
 
 Š  
 
 Š   
 
 
 22
 
 1
 
 
 
Other 
 
 266
 
 3
 
 Š  
 
 Š   
 
 
 266
 
 3
 
 
 
 
Total 
$
 1,686
$
 6
$
 Š  
$
 Š   
 
$ 
 1,686
$
 6
 
 
Periodic reviews are conducted 
to identify and evaluate each investment with
 an unrealized loss for OTTI. An unrealized loss 
exists when the current fair value of an
 individual security is less than its am
ortized cost basis. Unrealized losses that are 
determined to be temporary in nature are recorded, net of
 tax, in AOCI for AFS securities. The unrealized losses on GSE 
securities and MBS issued by GSE were th
e result of increases in market interest r
ates compared to the date the securities 
were acquired rather than th
e credit quality of the issuers. 
 
Cash flow modeling is used to evalua
te non-agency MBS in an unrealized loss po
sition for potential credit impairment. These 
models give consideration to long-term macroeconomic factors ap
plied to current security default rates, prepayment rates and 
recovery rates and security-level performance. At December 31, 2013, one non-agency MBS reflected an immaterial 
unrealized loss and was below investment grade.  
 
At December 31, 2013, $60 million of the unrealized loss on municipal securities was the result of fair value hedge basis 
adjustments that are a component of amor
tized cost. Municipal securities in an 
unrealized loss position are evaluated for 
credit impairment through a qualitativ
e analysis of issuer performance and the 
primary source of repayment. The evaluation 
of municipal securities indicated ther
e were no credit losses evident. 
  
104 
 
NOTE 3. Loans and ACL 
 
During October of 2013, BB&T sold a consumer lending subsidiary with approximately $500 million in loans and $27 
million of related ALLL. In addition, approximately $230 million of 
loans, with $38 million of related ALLL, was transferred 
from retail other lending subsidiaries to residential mortgage.  
 
During December of 2013, $47 million of unallocated ALLL was allocated to the loan portfolio segments.  
 
During January of 2014, approximately $8.3 billion of home equ
ity loans were transferred from direct retail lending to 
residential mortgage in response to qualif
ied mortgage regulatory requirements. 
 
Loans that are contractually past due are shown in the tables below. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accruing
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
90 Days Or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30-89 Days
More Past
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2013
 
Current
Past Due 
Due
 
 
Nonaccrual
 
Total 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Commercial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial 
$
 38,110 
$
 35
$
 

   
 
$
 363 
$
 38,508 
 
 
 
CRE - other 
 
 11,535 
 
 8
 
 

   
 
 
 129 
 
 11,672 
 
 
 
CRE - residential ADC 
 
 901 
 
 2
 
 

   
 
 
 35 
 
 938 
 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 
 4,482 
 
 14
 
 5 
 
 
 1 
 
 4,502 
 
 
Retail: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Direct retail lending 
 
 15,595 
 
 132
 
 33 
 
 
 109 
 
 15,869 
 
 
 
Revolving credit 
 
 2,370 
 
 23
 
 10 
 
 
 

   
 
 2,403 
 
 
 
Residential mortgage 
 
 22,738 
 
 463
 
 69 
 
 
 243 
 
 23,513 
 
 
 
Sales finance 
 
 9,316 
 
 56
 
 5 
 
 
 5 
 
 9,382 
 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 
 5,703 
 
 207
 
 

   
 
 
 50 
 
 5,960 
 
 
Covered 
 
 1,643 
 
 88
 
 304 
 
 
 

   
 
 2,035 
 
 
 
 
Total excluding government and GNMA guaranteed
 
 112,393 
 
 1,028
 
 426 
 
 
 935 
 
 114,782 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Residential mortgage loans excluded from above: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Government guaranteed 
 
 236 
 
 88
 
 296 
 
 
 

   
 
 620 
 
 
GNMA guaranteed 
 
 

   
 
 4
 
 511 
 
 
 

   
 
 515 
 
 
 
Total 
$
 112,629 
$
 1,120
$
 1,233 
 
$
 935 
$
 115,917 
 
  
105 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Accruing
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
90 Days Or
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30-89 Days
More Past
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2012
 
Current
Past Due 
Due
 
 
Nonaccrual
Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Commercial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial 
$
 37,706 
$
 42
$
 1 
 
$
 546
$
 38,295 
 
 
 
CRE - other 
 11,237 
 12
 

   
 
 212
 11,461 
 
 
 
CRE - residential ADC 
 1,131 
 2
 

   
 
 128
 1,261 
 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 4,106 
 20
 9 
 
 3
 4,138 
 
 
Retail: 
 
 
 
Direct retail lending 
 15,502 
 145
 38 
 
 132
 15,817 
 
 
 
Revolving credit 
 2,291 
 23
 16 
 
 

  
 2,330 
 
 
 
Residential mortgage 
 22,330 
 498
 92 
 
 269
 23,189 
 
 
 
Sales finance 
 7,663 
 56
 10 
 
 7
 7,736 
 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 5,645 
 270
 1 
 
 83
 5,999 
 
 
Covered 
 2,717 
 135
 442 
 
 

  
 3,294 
 
 
 
 
Total excluding government and GNMA guaranteed 
 110,328 
 1,203
 609 
 
 1,380
 113,520 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Residential mortgage loans excluded from above: 
 
 
 
 
Government guaranteed  
 225 
 84
 252 
 
 

  
 561 
 
 
 
GNMA guaranteed 
 

   
 5
 517 
 
 

  
 522 
 
 
 
 
Total 
$
 110,553 
$
 1,292
$
 1,378 
 
$
 1,380
$
 114,603 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unearned income and net deferred loan fees and costs totaled $261 million and $308 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, 
respectively. 
 
The following tables present the carrying amount of loans by 
risk rating. Covered loans are excluded because their related 
ALLL is determined by loan pool performance. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CRE - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial 
 
 
Residential 
 
Other Lending
 
 
December 31, 2013 
 
& Industrial 
CRE - Other 
 
ADC 
 
Subsidiaries 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Commercial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pass
 
$
 36,804 
$
 10,883 
$
 794 
$
 4,464 
 
 
Special mention
 
 219 
 58 
 11 
 8 
 
 
Substandard - performing
 
 1,122 
 602 
 98 
 29 
 
 
N
onperforming
 
 
 363 
 
 129 
 
 35 
 
 1 
 
 
 
Total
 
$
 38,508 
$
 11,672 
$
 938 
$
 4,502 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Direct Retail 
 
Revolving 
Residential 
 
Sales 
 
Other Lending
 
 
 
 
 
Lending 
 
Credit 
Mortgage 
 
Finance 
 
Subsidiaries 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Retail: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Performing 
$
 15,760 
$
 2,403 
$
 24,405 
$
 9,377 
$
 5,910 
 
 
N
onperforming 
 
 109 
 

   
 243 
 5 
 50 
 
 
 
Total 
$
 15,869 
$
 2,403 
$
 24,648 
$
 9,382 
$
 5,960 
 
 
  
106 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
CRE - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial 
 
 
Residential 
 
Other Lending
 
 
December 31, 2012 
 
& Industrial 
CRE - Other 
 
ADC 
 
Subsidiaries 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Commercial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pass 
$
 36,044 
$
 10,095 
$
 859 
$
 4,093 
 
 
Special mention 
 274 
 120 
 41 
 13 
 
 
Substandard - performing 
 1,431 
 1,034 
 233 
 29 
 
 
N
onperforming 
 
 546 
 
 212 
 
 128 
 
 3 
 
 
 
Total  
$
 38,295 
$
 11,461 
$
 1,261 
$
 4,138 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Direct Retail 
 
Revolving 
Residential 
 
Sales 
 
Other Lending
 
 
 
 
 
 
Lending 
 
Credit 
Mortgage 
 
Finance 
 
Subsidiaries 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Retail: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Performing 
$
 15,685 
$
 2,330 
$
 24,003 
$
 7,729 
$
 5,916 
 
 
N
onperforming 
 132 
 

   
 269 
 7 
 83 
 
 
 
Total 
$
 15,817 
$
 2,330 
$
 24,272 
$
 7,736 
$
 5,999 
 
 
The tables below presen
t activity in the ACL: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACL Rollforward
 
 
 
 
 
Beginning
 
Charge-
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ending 
 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2013
 
Balance 
 
Offs
 
Recoveries
Provision
 
 
Other 
Balance 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Commercial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial 
$
 470 
$
 (248)
$
 47 
$
 166 
$
 19 
$
 454 
 
 
CRE - other 
 204 
 (84)
 28 
 16 
 14 
 178 
 
 
CRE - residential ADC 
 100 
 (48)
 23 
 (32)
 4 
 47 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 13 
 (3)
 2 
 3 
 

   
 15 
 
Retail: 
 
 
Direct retail lending 
 300 
 (148)
 38 
 15 
 4 
 209 
 
 
Revolving credit 
 102 
 (85)
 17 
 81 
 

   
 115 
 
 
Residential mortgage 
 328 
 (81)
 3 
 37 
 44 
 331 
 
 
Sales finance 
 29 
 (23)
 9 
 30 
 

   
 45 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 264 
 (252)
 32 
 245 
 (65)
 224 
 
Covered  
 128 
 (19)
 

   
 5 
 

   
 114 
 
Unallocated 
 80 
 

  
 

   
 (33)
 (47)
 

   
 
ALLL 
 2,018 
 (991)
 199 
 533 
 (27)
 1,732 
 
RUFC 
 30 
 

  
 

   
 59 
 

   
 89 
 
ACL 
$
 2,048 
$
 (991)
$
 199 
$
 592 
$
 (27)
$
 1,821 
 
  
107 
 
 
 
 
ACL Rollforward
 
 
 
 
 
 
Beginning
Charge-
 
 
 
 
Ending 
 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2012
 
 
Balance 
Offs
Recoveries
 
 
Provision
Balance 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Commercial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial 
$
 433 
$
 (337)
$
 17 
 
$
 357 
$
 470 
 
 
CRE - other 
 
 334 
 
 (205)
 
 13 
 
 
 62 
 
 204 
 
 
CRE - residential ADC 
 
 286 
 
 (190)
 
 41 
 
 
 (37)
 
 100 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 
 11 
 
 (8)
 
 2 
 
 
 8 
 
 13 
 
Retail: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Direct retail lending 
 
 232 
 
 (224)
 
 36 
 
 
 256 
 
 300 
 
 
Revolving credit 
 
 112 
 
 (81)
 
 18 
 
 
 53 
 
 102 
 
 
Residential mortgage 
 
 365 
 
 (136)
 
 3 
 
 
 96 
 
 328 
 
 
Sales finance 
 
 38 
 
 (26)
 
 10 
 
 
 7 
 
 29 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 
 186 
 
 (217)
 
 24 
 
 
 271 
 
 264 
 
Covered  
 
 149 
 
 (34)
 
 

   
 
 
 13 
 
 128 
 
Unallocated 
 
 110 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 (30)
 
 80 
 
ALLL 
 
 2,256 
 
 (1,458)
 
 164 
 
 
 1,056 
 
 2,018 
 
RUFC 
 
 29 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 1 
 
 30 
 
ACL 
$
 2,285 
$
 (1,458)
$
 164 
 
$
 1,057 
$
 2,048 
 
 
 
 
ACL Rollforward
 
 
 
 
 
 
Beginning
Charge-
 
 
 
 
Ending 
 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 
 
Balance
Offs
Recoveries
 
 
Provision
Balance 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Commercial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial 
$
 621 
$
 (323)
$
 28 
 
$
 107 
$
 433 
 
 
CRE - other 
 
 446 
 
 (273)
 
 18 
 
 
 143 
 
 334 
 
 
CRE - residential ADC 
 
 469 
 
 (302)
 
 25 
 
 
 94 
 
 286 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 
 21 
 
 (9)
 
 3 
 
 
 (4)
 
 11 
 
Retail: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Direct retail lending 
 
 246 
 
 (276)
 
 37 
 
 
 225 
 
 232 
 
 
Revolving credit 
 
 109 
 
 (95)
 
 19 
 
 
 79 
 
 112 
 
 
Residential mortgage 
 
 298 
 
 (269)
 
 5 
 
 
 331 
 
 365 
 
 
Sales finance 
 
 47 
 
 (32)
 
 9 
 
 
 14 
 
 38 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 
 177 
 
 (181)
 
 22 
 
 
 168 
 
 186 
 
Covered  
 
 144 
 
 (66)
 
 

   
 
 
 71 
 
 149 
 
Unallocated 
 
 130 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 (20)
 
 110 
 
ALLL 
 
 2,708 
 
 (1,826)
 
 166 
 
 
 1,208 
 
 2,256 
 
RUFC 
 
 47 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 (18)
 
 29 
 
ACL 
$
 2,755 
$
 (1,826)
$
 166 
 
$
 1,190 
$
 2,285 
 
  
108 
 
The following table provid
es a summary of loans that are collectively evaluated for impairment. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2013 
 
December 31, 2012 
 
 
 
Recorded 
Investment 
Related 
ALLL
 
 
Recorded 
Investment 
 
Related 
ALLL
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions) 
 
 
Commercial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial 
$
 38,042 
$
 382 
 
$
 37,664 
 
$
 397 
 
 
CRE - other 
 
 11,441 
 
 150 
 
 
 11,149 
 
 
 168 
 
 
CRE - residential ADC 
 
 881 
 
 38 
 
 
 1,106 
 
 
 79 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 
 4,501 
 
 15 
 
 
 4,135 
 
 
 12 
 
Retail: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Direct retail lending 
 
 15,648 
 
 166 
 
 
 15,582 
 
 
 241 
 
 
Revolving credit 
 
 2,355 
 
 96 
 
 
 2,274 
 
 
 78 
 
 
Residential mortgage 
 
 23,316 
 
 167 
 
 
 23,085 
 
 
 198 
 
 
Sales finance 
 
 9,363 
 
 41 
 
 
 7,714 
 
 
 23 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 
 5,823 
 
 196 
 
 
 5,853 
 
 
 203 
 
Covered  
 
 2,035 
 
 114 
 
 
 3,294 
 
 
 128 
 
Unallocated 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 
 80 
 
 
 
Total 
$
 113,405 
$
 1,365 
 
$
 111,856 
 
$
 1,607 
 
The following tables set forth certain information regarding 
impaired loans, excluding purchased impaired loans and LHFS, 
that were individually evaluated for reserves. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Average 
Interest 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recorded
 
 
Related
 
 
Recorded
Income 
 
 
As Of / For The Year Ended December 31, 2013
 
Investment
 
UPB
ALLL
 
 
Investment
Recognized
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
With no related ALLL recorded: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial 
$
 91 
$
 165 
$
 

   
 
$ 
 111 
$
 

   
 
 
 
 
CRE - other 
 
 25 
 
 41 
 
 

   
 
 
 53 
 
 

   
 
 
 
 
CRE - residential ADC 
 
 16 
 
 36 
 
 

   
 
 
 31 
 
 

   
 
 
 
Retail: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Direct retail lending 
 
 23 
 
 76 
 
 

   
 
 
 23 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
Residential mortgage (1) 
 
 144 
 
 237 
 
 

   
 
 
 129 
 
 4 
 
 
 
 
Sales finance 
 
 1 
 
 2 
 
 

   
 
 
 1 
 
 

   
 
 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 
 2 
 
 6 
 
 

   
 
 
 4 
 
 

   
 
 
With an ALLL recorded: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial 
 
 375 
 
 409 
 
 72 
 
 
 453 
 
 5 
 
 
 
 
CRE - other 
 
 206 
 
 208 
 
 28 
 
 
 233 
 
 5 
 
 
 
 
CRE - residential ADC 
 
 41 
 
 42 
 
 9 
 
 
 76 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 
 1 
 
 1 
 
 

   
 
 
 2 
 
 

   
 
 
 
Retail: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Direct retail lending 
 
 198 
 
 204 
 
 43 
 
 
 204 
 
 12 
 
 
 
 
Revolving credit 
 
 48 
 
 48 
 
 19 
 
 
 52 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
Residential mortgage (1) 
 
 812 
 
 830 
 
 109 
 
 
 763 
 
 34 
 
 
 
 
Sales finance 
 
 18 
 
 19 
 
 4 
 
 
 20 
 
 1 
 
 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 
 135 
 
 137 
 
 28 
 
 
 173 
 
 11 
 
 
 
 
 
Total (1) 
$
 2,136 
$
 2,461 
$
 312 
 
$ 
 2,328 
$
 77 
 
  
109 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Average
 
Interest
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recorded
 
 
Related
 
 
Recorded 
Income
 
 
As Of / For The Year Ended December 31, 2012
 
Investment
 
UPB
ALLL
 
 
Investment
Recognized
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
With no related ALLL recorded: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial 
$
 116 
$
 232 
$
 

   
 
$ 
 117 
$
 

   
 
 
 
CRE - other 
 
 60 
 
 108 
 
 

   
 
 
 81 
 
 

   
 
 
 
CRE - residential ADC 
 
 44 
 
 115 
 
 

   
 
 
 103 
 
 

   
 
 
Retail: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Direct retail lending 
 
 19 
 
 73 
 
 

   
 
 
 19 
 
 1 
 
 
 
Residential mortgage (1) 
 
 120 
 
 201 
 
 

   
 
 
 80 
 
 2 
 
 
 
Sales finance 
 
 1 
 
 3 
 
 

   
 
 
 1 
 
 

   
 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 
 2 
 
 6 
 
 

   
 
 
 3 
 
 

   
 
With an ALLL recorded: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial 
 
 515 
 
 551 
 
 73 
 
 
 522 
 
 3 
 
 
 
CRE - other 
 
 252 
 
 255 
 
 36 
 
 
 319 
 
 5 
 
 
 
CRE - residential ADC 
 
 111 
 
 116 
 
 21 
 
 
 180 
 
 1 
 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 
 3 
 
 3 
 
 1 
 
 
 4 
 
 

   
 
 
Retail: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Direct retail lending 
 
 216 
 
 226 
 
 59 
 
 
 140 
 
 9 
 
 
 
Revolving credit 
 
 56 
 
 56 
 
 24 
 
 
 59 
 
 2 
 
 
 
Residential mortgage (1) 
 
 754 
 
 770 
 
 104 
 
 
 649 
 
 28 
 
 
 
Sales finance 
 
 21 
 
 21 
 
 6 
 
 
 13 
 
 

   
 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 
 144 
 
 146 
 
 61 
 
 
 66 
 
 2 
 
 
 
 
Total (1)
 
$
 2,434 
$
 2,882 
$
 385 
 
$ 
 2,356 
$
 53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) 
Residential mortgage loans exclude $376 million and $31
3 million in government guaranteed loans and related 
ALLL of $55 million and $26 million as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. 
 
The following table prov
ides a summary of TDRs, all of which are considered impaired. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
2013
 
 
2012 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Performing TDRs: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial 
$
 77 
$
 77 
 
 
 
 
CRE - other 
 70 
 67 
 
 
 
 
CRE - residential ADC 
 19 
 21 
 
 
 
Direct retail lending 
 187 
 197 
 
 
 
Sales finance 
 17 
 19 
 
 
 
Revolving credit 
 48 
 56 
 
 
 
Residential mortgage 
 785 
 769 
 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 126 
 121 
 
 
 
Total performing TDRs 
 1,329 
 1,327 
 
 
N
onperforming TDRs (also included in NPL disclosures) 
 193 
 240 
 
 
 
 
Total TDRs 
$
 1,522 
$
 1,567 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ALLL attributable to TDRs, excluding government guaranteed 
$
 228 
$
 281 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Government guaranteed residential mortga
ge TDRs excluded from above table: 
 
 
 
Held for investment 
$
 376 
$
 313 
 
 
 
Held for sale 
 3 
 2 
 
  
  
110 
 
The following table summarizes the pr
imary reason loan modification were classified as TDRs and includes newly 
designated TDRs as well as modifications made to existing TDRs. 
Balances represent the recorded
 investment at the end of 
the quarter in which the modification was made. Rate modifications
 include TDRs made with below market interest rates that 
also include modifications of loan structures. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
2012
2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Type of
 
Type of 
 
Type of 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Modification
ALLL 
Modification 
ALLL 
Modification 
ALLL 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rate
 
 
Structure
Impact
Rate 
Structure
Impact
Rate 
 
Structure
Impact
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Commercial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial 
$ 
 99 
 
$ 
 27 
$
 3 
$
 51 
$
 63 
$
 

   
$ 
 29 
 
$ 
 68 
$
 5 
 
 
CRE - other 
 
 62 
 
 
 54 
 
 1 
 
 67 
 
 45 
 
 

   
 
 56 
 
 
 58 
 
 8 
 
 
CRE - residential ADC 
 
 22 
 
 
 10 
 
 (2)
 
 44 
 
 34 
 
 (1)
 
 29 
 
 
 47 
 
 10 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 1 
 
 
 1 
 
 

   
 
Retail: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Direct retail lending 
 
 45 
 
 
 9 
 
 7 
 
 120 
 
 17 
 
 35 
 
 51 
 
 
 5 
 
 9 
 
 
Revolving credit 
 
 26 
 
 
 

   
 
 4 
 
 30 
 
 

   
 
 5 
 
 40 
 
 
 

   
 
 8 
 
 
Residential mortgage 
 
 103 
 
 
 68 
 
 11 
 
 241 
 
 88 
 
 22 
 
 142 
 
 
 35 
 
 17 
 
 
Sales finance 
 
 4 
 
 
 7 
 
 3 
 
 16 
 
 

   
 
 4 
 
 5 
 
 
 5 
 
 1 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 
 167 
 
 
 

   
 
 34 
 
 123 
 
 2 
 
 35 
 
 37 
 
 
 7 
 
 15 
 
During 2012, a national bank 
regulatory agency issued
 guidance that requires 
certain loans that had been discharged in 
bankruptcy and not reaffirmed by the borrower to be accounted 
for as TDRs and possibly as nonperforming, regardless of 
their actual payment history and expected performance. BB&T has included these loans in the ﬁRateﬂ column in the above 
table. BB&T also concluded there is a reasonable expectation of collection of principal and interest and has classified these 
loans as performing unless already classified as nonperforming. 
 
The following table summarizes
 the pre-default balance for modifications that e
xperienced a payment default that had been 
classified as TDRs during the previous 12 months. Payment de
fault is defined as movement of the TDR to nonaccrual status, 
foreclosure or charge-off, whichever occurs first. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013 
 
2012  
 
2011  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Commercial: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Commercial and industrial 
$
 5 
 
$ 
 8 
 
$
 39
 
 
 
CRE - other 
 
 11 
 
 
 6 
 
 
 92
 
 
 
CRE - residential ADC 
 
 4 
 
 
 14 
 
 
 80
 
 
Retail: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Direct retail lending 
 
 4 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 16
 
 
 
Revolving credit 
 
 10 
 
 
 12 
 
 
 15
 
 
 
Residential mortgage  
 
 17 
 
 
 36 
 
 
 31
 
 
 
Sales finance 
 
 1 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 2
 
 
 
Other lending subsidiaries 
 
 26 
 
 
 12 
 
 
 5
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
If a TDR subsequently defaults, BB&T evaluates the TDR for 
possible impairment. As a result, the related ALLL may be 
increased or charge-offs may be taken to reduce the carrying value of the loan. 
 
  
111 
 
Changes in the carrying value and acc
retable yield of covered loans are presented in the following table.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2013
 
Year Ended December 31, 2012
 
 
 
Purchased Impaired
Purchased Nonimpaired
Purchased Impaired 
 
Purchased Nonimpaired
 
 
 
Accretable
Carrying 
Accretable
Carrying 
Accretable
Carrying 
 
Accretable
Carrying 
 
 
 
Yield
 
Value
Yield 
Value
Yield 
Value
 
 
Yield 
Value
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
Balance at beginning of period 
 
$
 264
$
 1,400
$
 617
$
 1,894
$
 520
$
 2,123 
$
 1,193
$
 2,744
 
Accretion  
 (149)
 149
 (301)
 301
 (219)
 219 
 (541)
 541
 
Payments received, net  
 

  
 (686)
 

  
 (1,023)
 

  
 (942)
 

  
 (1,391)
 
Other, net  
 72
 

  
 35
 

  
 (37)
 

   
 (35)
 

  
Balance at end of period  
$
 187
$
 863
$
 351
$
 1,172
$
 264
$
 1,400 
$
 617
$
 1,894
 
 
 
Outstanding UPB at end of period 
$
 1,266
$
 1,516
$
 2,047 
$
 2,489
 
NOTE 4. Premises and Equipment 
 
A summary of premises and equipment is presented in the accompanying table:  
 
 
 
 
 
Estimated
December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
Useful Life
2013
 
 
2012 
 
 
 
 
 
(Years)
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Land and land improvements 
 
 
$ 
 527 
 
$
 547 
 
 
Buildings and building improvements 
 40  
 
 1,288 
 
 
 1,235 
 
 
Furniture and equipment 
 5 
-
 10 
 
 1,102 
 
 
 1,141 
 
 
Leasehold improvements 
 
 
 
 633 
 
 
 555 
 
 
Construction in progress 
 
 
 
 38 
 
 
 37 
 
 
Capitalized leases on premises and equipment 
 
 
 
 58 
 
 
 59 
 
 
 
Total 
 
 
 
 3,646 
 
 
 3,574 
 
 
Less - accumulated depreciation and amortization 
 
 
 
 (1,777)
 
 
 (1,686)
 
 
 
N
et premises and equipmen
t
 
 
 
$ 
 1,869 
 
$
 1,888 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
 
 
2012  
2011  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions) 
 
 
Rent expense applicable to operating leases 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
 230 
 
$ 
 215 
$
 199
 
 
Rental income from owned properties and subleases 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 8 
 
 7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2014
2015  
2016  
2017  
 
2018  
Thereafter
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Future minimum lease payments for operating leases 
$
 214 
$
 201
$
 182 
$
 161 
 
$ 
 136 
$
 614
 
  
112 
 
NOTE 5. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
 
The changes in the carrying amounts of goodwill attributable to BB&T™s operating segments are reflected in the table below. 
There have been no goodwill impairments recorded to date. 
 
 
 
 
 
Residential
Dealer 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Community
Mortgage 
Financial 
Specialized
Insurance 
 
Financial 
 
 
 
 
 
Banking
Banking
Services 
Lending
Services
 
 
Services
 
Total
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
Goodwill balance, January 1, 2012
 
$ 
 4,542 
$
 7 
$
 111 
$
 94 
$
 1,132 
 
$ 
 192 
$
 6,078 
 
Acquired goodwill, net 
 
 358 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 5 
 
 358 
 
 
 

   
 
 721 
 
Contingent consideration 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 3 
 
 
 

   
 
 3 
 
Other adjustments  
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 2 
 
 
 

   
 
 2 
Goodwill balance, December 31, 2012 
$ 
 4,900 
$
 7 
$
 111 
$
 99 
$
 1,495 
 
$ 
 192 
$
 6,804 
 
Contingent consideration 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 6 
 
 
 

   
 
 6 
 
Other adjustments  
 
 24 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 (11)
 
 (9)
 
 
 

   
 
 4 
Goodwill balance, December 31, 2013 
$ 
 4,924 
$
 7 
$
 111 
$
 88 
$
 1,492 
 
$ 
 192 
$
 6,814 
 
During 2012, BB&T completed 
the acquisition of Fort Lauderdale, Fl
orida-based BankAtlantic. BB&T acquired 
approximately $1.7 billion in loans and assumed approximately $3.5 billion in deposits. The net purchase price received, 
excluding cash held by BankAtlantic, was $45 million, which co
nsisted of net liabilities assume
d less a deposit premium of 
$316 million. The 2012 change
 in Community Banking goodwill was primarily th
e result of this acquisition. Also during 
2012, BB&T acquired the life and property and casualty insura
nce divisions of Crump Group Inc. The 2012 changes in 
Insurance Services goodwill and other 
identifiable intangibles is prima
rily due to this acquisition. 
 
The 2013 adjustments to
 goodwill within Community Banki
ng and Insurance Services ref
lect the finalization of valuations 
for certain assets and liabilities of the above acquisitions. The 2
013 adjustment to 
Specialized Lending prim
arily represents 
the goodwill associated with a 
subsidiary that was sold. 
 
The following table present
s information for identifiable intangibl
e assets subject to amortization:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2013
December 31, 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
Wtd. Avg.
Gross 
 
Net 
Gross 
 
 
Net 
 
 
 
 
 
Remaining
Carrying 
Accumulated
Carrying 
Carrying 
 
Accumulated
Carrying 
 
 
 
 
 
Life
Amount 
Amortization
Amount
Amount 
 
Amortization
Amount
 
 
 
 
 
(Years)
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
CDI 
 
 7.1
$
 672
$
 (555)
$
 117 
$
 672 
 
$ 
 (522)
$
 150
 
 
Other, primarily cust
omer relationship 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
intangibles 
 
 15.3
 
 1,082
 
 (630)
 
 452 
 
 1,080 
 
 
 (557)
 
 523
 
 
 
Total 
 
 
$
 1,754
$
 (1,185)
$
 569 
$
 1,752 
 
$ 
 (1,079)
$
 673
 
 
 
 
2014
2015  
2016  
 
2017  
2018  
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Estimated amortization expense of identifiable intangibles 
$
 89 
$
 76 
$
 65 
 
$ 
 56 
$
 49 
 
  
113 
 
NOTE 6. Loan Servicing 
 
Residential Mortgage Banking Activities 
 
The following tables summarize 
residential mortgage banking activities
 for the periods presented:  
 
 
 
 
 
December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
2013
 
 
2012 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Mortgage loans managed or securitized (1)  
$ 
 27,353 
 
$
 29,882 
 
 
Less: Loans securitized and tr
ansferred to AFS securities 
 
 4 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 
LHFS 
 
 1,116 
 
 
 3,547 
 
 
 
Covered mortgage loans  
 
 802 
 
 
 1,040 
 
 
 
Mortgage loans sold with recourse  
 
 783 
 
 
 1,019 
 
 
Mortgage loans held for investment  
$ 
 24,648 
 
$
 24,272 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage loans on nonaccrual status 
$ 
 243 
 
$
 269 
 
Mortgage loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing interest (2)  
 
 69 
 
 
 92 
 
 
Mortgage loans net charge-offs - year to date 
 
 78 
 
 
 133 
 
 
UPB of residential mortgage loan servicing portfolio 
 
 112,835 
 
 
 101,362 
 
 
UPB of residential mortgage loans serviced
 for others (primar
ily agency conforming 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
fixed rate) 
 
 87,434 
 
 
 73,769 
 
 
Maximum recourse exposure from mortgage
 loans sold with recourse liability 
 
 372 
 
 
 446 
 
 
Recorded reserves related to recourse exposure 
 
 13 
 
 
 12 
 
 
Repurchase reserves for mortgage loan sales to GSEs 
 
 59 
 
 
 59 
 
(1) 
Balances exclude loans serviced for others
 with no other continuing involvement.  
(2) 
Includes amounts related to residential mortgage LHFS and 
excludes amounts related to government guaranteed loans 
and covered mortgage loans. 
 
 
 
 
 
As Of / For The 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
2013
 
2012 
 
2011 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
UPB of residential mortgage loan
s sold from the LHFS portfolio 
$
 28,900 
 
$
 
 25,640 
 
 
$
 17,202 
 
 
 
Pre-tax gains recognized on mortga
ge loans sold and held for sale 
 
 292 
 
 
 539 
 
 
 
 175 
 
 
 
Servicing fees recognized from mortgage loans serviced for others 
 
 259 
 
 
 247 
 
 
 
 240 
 
 
Approximate weighted average servicing fee on the outstanding balance 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
of residential mortgage loans serviced for others 
 
 0.30 
%
 
 0.32 
% 
 
 
 0.34 
%
 
 
Weighted average interest rate on mortgage loans serviced for others 
 
 4.24 
 
 
 4.59 
 
 
 
 5.02 
 
 
Gains on residential mortgage loan sales, including marking 
LHFS to fair value and the im
pact of interest rate lock 
commitments, are recorded in noninterest income as a componen
t of mortgage banking income. For certain of these 
transactions, the loan servicing rights
 were retained, including the related 
MSRs and on-going servicing fees. 
 
Payments made to date for recourse exposure on residential mort
gage loans sold with recourse liability have been immaterial.  
 
BB&T also issues standard representations
 and warranties related to mortgage lo
an sales to GSEs. Although these 
agreements often do not specify limita
tions, management does not 
believe that any payments re
lated to these warranties 
would materially change the financial co
ndition or results of operations of BB&T. 
 
Residential MSRs are recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets 
at fair value with changes in fair value recorded as a 
component of mortgage banking income in the Consolidated St
atements of Income. Various derivative instruments are used 
to mitigate the income statement 
effect of changes in fair valu
e due to changes in valuation 
inputs and assumptions of its 
residential MSRs.  
 
  
114 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
 
 
2012
 
2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Carrying value, January 1,  
$
 627 
 
$ 
 563 
$
 830 
 
 
 
Additions  
 
 336 
 
 
 270 
 
 225 
 
 
 
Change in fair value due to changes in valuation inputs or assumptions: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepayment speeds 
 
 287 
 
 
 19 
 
 (284)
 
 
 
 
Weighted average OAS 
 
 (31)
 
 
 (36)
 
 (20)
 
 
 
 
Servicing costs 
 
 (29)
 
 
 (22)
 
 (30)
 
 
Realization of expected net servicing cash flows, passage of time and other 
 
 (143)
 
 
 (167)
 
 (158)
 
Carrying value, December 31, 
$
 1,047 
 
$
 
 627 
$
 563 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gains (losses) on derivative financia
l instruments used to mitigate the 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
income statement effect of changes in fair value 
$
 (197)
 
$
 
 128 
$
 394 
 
 
During 2013, the prepayment speed assumptions were updated as
 actual observed prepayment speeds were slower, primarily 
as a result of rising interest rates. These valuation increases were
 partially offset by realization of servicing cash flows as
 well 
as higher servicing costs due to regulatory requirements and up
dates to OAS due to market changes in required rates of 
return.  
 
The sensitivity of the fair value of the re
sidential MSRs to adverse changes in key ec
onomic assumptions is included in the 
accompanying table: 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2013
December 31, 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
Range 
 
Weighted 
Range 
 
Weighted 
 
 
 
 
 
Min 
 
Max 
 
Average 
Min 
 
Max 
 
Average 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions) 
 
 
Prepayment speed  
 5.5 
%
 8.0 
%
 
 6.9
% 
 15.3 
% 
 
 18.5 
% 
 
 
 17.3
% 
 
 
 
Effect on fair value of a 10% increase  
 
 
 
 
$
 (33)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$ 
 (35)
 
 
 
 
Effect on fair value of a 20% increase  
 
 
 
 
 
 (64)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (67)
 
 
 
OAS 
 9.1 
%
 9.9 
%
 
 9.3
% 
 8.2 
% 
 
 8.4 
% 
 
 
 8.3
% 
 
 
 
Effect on fair value of a 10% increase  
 
 
 
 
$
 (39)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$ 
 (17)
 
 
 
 
Effect on fair value of a 20% increase  
 
 
 
 
 
 (75)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (33)
 
 
 
Composition of loans serviced for others: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fixed-rate residential mortgage loans  
 
 
 
 
 
 99.7
% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 99.4
% 
 
 
 
Adjustable-rate residential mortgage loans 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 0.6
 
 
 
 
 
Total  
 
 
 
 
 
 100.0
% 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 100.0
% 
 
 
Weighted average life  
 
 
 
 
 
 7.9
yrs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4.4
yrs
 
The sensitivity calculations above 
are hypothetical and should
 not be considered to be pre
dictive of future performance. As 
indicated, changes in fair value based on adverse changes in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the 
relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair 
value may not be linear. Also, in the above table, the effect of
 
an adverse variation in a particular assumption on the fair
 value of the MSRs is calculated 
without changing any other 
assumption; while in reality, changes in on
e factor may result in changes in anot
her, which may magnify or counteract the 
effect of the change. 
 
  
  
115 
 
Commercial Mortgage Banking Activities  
 
CRE mortgage loans serviced for others are not included
 in loans and leases on the accompanying Consolidated Balance 
Sheets. The following table summarizes
 commercial mortgage banking activ
ities for the periods presented: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
 
 
2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
UPB of CRE mortgages serviced for others 
$ 
 28,095 
 
$
 29,520 
 
 
CRE mortgages serviced for others
 covered by recourse provisions 
 
 4,594 
 
 
 4,970 
 
 
Maximum recourse exposure from CRE mortgages 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sold with recourse liability 
 
 1,320 
 
 
 1,368 
 
 
Recorded reserves related to recourse exposure 
 
 9 
 
 
 13 
 
 
Originated CRE mortgages during the period - year to date 
 
 4,881 
 
 
 4,934 
 
NOTE 7. Short-Term Borrowings 
 
Short-term borrowings are summarized as follows:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
 
 
2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Federal funds purchased 
$ 
 1,443 
 
$
 4 
 
 
Securities sold under agreements to repurchase 
 
 463 
 
 
 514 
 
 
Master notes 
 
 24 
 
 
 37 
 
 
Other short-term borrowed funds 
 
 2,208 
 
 
 2,309 
 
 
Total 
$ 
 4,138 
 
$
 2,864 
 
A summary of selected data related to
 short-term borrowings follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As Of / For The Years Ended December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
2012
 
 
2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Maximum outstanding at any month-end during the year 
$
 5,196 
 
$
 4,385 
 
 
$
 
 10,473 
 
 
 
Balance outstanding at end of year 
 
 4,138 
 
 
 2,864 
 
 
 
 3,566 
 
 
 
Average outstanding during the year 
 
 4,459 
 
 
 3,408 
 
 
 
 5,189 
 
 
 
Average interest rate during the y
ear (includes derivative impact) 
 
 0.13 
%
 
 0.20 
% 
 0.21 
%
 
 
Average interest rate at end of year 
 
 0.12 
 
 
 0.22 
 
 
 
 0.20 
 
 
 
NOTE 8. Deposits 
 
A summary of deposits is presented in the accompanying table:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
 
 
2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
N
oninteres
t
-bearing deposits 
$ 
 34,972 
 
$
 32,452 
 
 
Interest checking 
 
 18,861 
 
 
 21,091 
 
 
Money market and savings 
 
 48,687 
 
 
 47,908 
 
 
Certificates and other time deposits 
 
 24,955 
 
 
 31,624 
 
 
 
Total deposits 
$ 
 127,475 
 
$
 133,075 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Time deposits $100,000 and greater 
$ 
 14,173 
 
$
 19,328 
  
116 
 
NOTE 9. Long-Term Debt 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
2013
 
2012 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
BB&T Corporation:
 
 
 
 
 
 
3.38% Senior Notes Due 2013 
$ 
 

  
$
 500
 
5.70% Senior Notes Due 2014 
 
 510
 
 510
 
2.05% Senior Notes Due 2014 
 
 700
 
 700
 
Floating Rate Senior Note Due 2014 (LIBOR-based, 0.94% at December 31, 2013) 
 
 300
 
 300
 
3.95% Senior Notes Due 2016 
 
 500
 
 500
 
3.20% Senior Notes Due 2016 
 
 999
 
 999
 
2.15% Senior Notes Due 2017 
 
 749
 
 748
 
1.60% Senior Notes Due 2017 
 
 749
 
 749
 
1.45% Senior Notes Due 2018 
 
 500
 
 499
 
Floating Rate Senior Notes Due 2018 (LIBOR-based, 1.10% at December 31, 2013) 
 
 400
 
 

  
 
2.05% Senior Notes Due 2018 
 
 599
 
 

  
 
6.85% Senior Notes Due 2019 
 
 539
 
 539
 
5.20% Subordinated Notes Due 2015 
 
 933
 
 933
 
4.90% Subordinated Notes Due 2017 
 
 349
 
 345
 
5.25% Subordinated Notes Due 2019 
 
 586
 
 586
 
3.95% Subordinated Notes Due 2022 
 
 298
 
 298
Branch Bank:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Floating Rate Senior Note Due 2015 (LIBOR-based, 0.57% at December 31, 2013)
 
 
 650
 
 

  
 
1.45% Senior Notes Due 2016
 
 
 750
 
 

  
 
Floating Rate Senior Notes Due 2016 (LIBOR-based, 0.67% at December 31, 2013) 
 
 500
 
 

  
 
1.05% Senior Notes Due 2016 
 
 499
 
 

  
 
2.30% Senior Notes Due 2018 
 
 750
 
 

  
 
4.88% Subordinated Notes Due 2013 
 
 

  
 
 222
 
5.63% Subordinated Notes Due 2016 
 
 386
 
 386
 
Floating Rate Subordinated Note Due 2016 (LIB
OR-based, 0.56% at December 31, 2013) 
 
 350
 
 350
 
Floating Rate Subordinated Note Due 2017 (LIB
OR-based, 0.54% at December 31, 2013) 
 
 262
 
 262
FHLB Advances to Branch Bank:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Varying maturities to 2034 
 
 8,110
 
 8,994
Other Long-Term Debt 
 
 
 101
 
 100
Fair value hedge-related basis adjustments 
 
 
 424
 
 594
 
 
Total Long-Term Debt 
 
$
 
 21,493
$
 19,114
 
The subordinated notes 
qualify under the risk-based cap
ital guidelines as Tier 2 supplementary capital, subject to certain 
limitations. Certain of the FHLB advances have been swapped to 
floating rates from fixed rates or
 from fixed rates to floating 
rates. At December 31, 2013, the weighted average rate paid on these advances including the effect of the swapped portion 
was 3.79%, and the weighted average maturity was 6.6 years. 
 
  
  
117 
 
The following table presents the amounts and estimated effectiv
e rates of long-term debt, incl
uding the effect of hedges 
(carrying amount excludes fair value 
hedge-related basis adjustments): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carrying 
Effective 
 
 
 
 
Amount 
Rate 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions) 
 
 
BB&T Corporation Fixed Rate Senior Notes swapped to floating rates 
 
$ 
 5,845 
2.55 
%
 
 
BB&T Corporation Floating Rate Seni
or Notes swapped to fixed rates 
 
 
 700 
1.03 
 
 
 
BB&T Corporation Fixed Rate Subordinated
 Notes swapped to floating rates 
 
 
 2,166 
2.44 
 
 
 
Branch Bank Fixed Rate Senior Notes swapped to floating rates 
 
 
 1,999 
1.62 
 
 
 
Branch Bank Floating Rate Senior Notes swapped to fixed rates 
 
 
 1,150 
0.61 
 
 
 
Branch Bank Fixed Rate Subordinated
 Notes swapped to floating rates 
 
 
 386 
1.70 
 
 
 
Branch Bank Floating Rate Subordinated Notes swapped to fixed rates 
 
 
 612 
2.53 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2019  
 
 
2014
2015  
2016  
2017  
 
2018  
and later 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
Future debt maturities (excluding capital leases)
 
$
 2,141 
$
 1,693 
$
 5,650 
$
 2,453 
 
$ 
 2,289 
$
 7,226 
  
118 
 
NOTE 10. Shareholders™ Equity 
 
P
re
f
erred Stock
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table presents a summary of the non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock as of December 31, 2013: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Earliest
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Issuance
Redemption
Liquidation 
 
Carrying 
Dividend 
 
 
Issue
 
 
Date
Date
Amount 
 
Amount 
Rate 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions) 
 
 
 
 
 
Series D 
5/1/12
5/1/17
$
 575 
 
$ 
 559 
5.850 
%
 
 
Series E 
7/31/12
8/1/17
 
 1,150 
 
 
 1,120 
5.625 
 
 
 
Series F 
10/31/12
11/1/17
 
 450 
 
 
 437 
5.200 
 
 
 
Series G 
5/1/13
6/1/18
 
 500 
 
 
 487 
5.200 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
 2,675 
 
$ 
 2,603 
 
 
 
 
Dividends on the preferred stock, if declared, accrue and are payable quarterly, in arrears. For each issuance, BB&T issued 
depositary shares, each of which represents a fractional owners
hip interest in a share of the 
Company™s preferred stock. The 
preferred stock has no stated maturity and 
redemption is solely at the option of the 
Company in whole, but not in part, upon 
the occurrence of a regulatory capital treatment event, as define
d. In addition, the preferred stock may be redeemed in whole 
or in part, on any dividend payment date after five years fro
m the date of issuance. Under current rules, any redemption of the
 
preferred stock is subject to prior approval of the FRB. The preferred stock is not subject to any sinking fund or other 
obligations of the Company. 
 
Equity-Based Compensation Plans  
 
At December 31, 2013, options, restricted shares and RSUs were outstanding from equity-based compensation plans that 
have been approved by shareholders. The majority of outstanding
 awards and awards available to
 be issued relate to plans 
that allow for accelerated vesting of awards for holders who retire and have met all retirement eligibility requirements or in 
connection with certain other events.
 
Certain of these awards are subject to forfeiture under certain specified circumstances 
until vested that may result in cancellation prio
r to vesting. Those plans are intended to
 assist the Compan
y in recruiting and
 
retaining employees, directors an
d independent contractors and to associate the in
terests of eligible participants with those o
f 
BB&T and its shareholders. The followi
ng table provides a summary of the equity-based compensation plans:  
 
 
Equity-Based Compensation Plans
 
 
December 31, 2013 
 
 
Shares available for future
 grants (in thousands) 
 
 30,562 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vesting period, awards granted prior to 2010 
 
5.0
yrs
 
 
Vesting period, awards granted after 2009 
 
3.0 to 5.0
 
 
 
Option term 
 
10.0
 
 
 
The fair value of each option award is measured on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model. 
Substantially all of the awards are granted in February of each y
ear. The assumptions used in 
the valuation of equity-based 
awards are as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assumption
 
 
Definition 
 
 
Fair value of restricted shares 
 
Based on the common stock price on the grant date  
 
 
Fair value of RSUs 
 
Based on the common stock price on the gra
nt date less the present value of expected 
dividends that are foregone during the vesting period 
 
 
Expected life 
 
Based on historical behavi
or of employees related to
 exercises, forfeitures and 
cancellations, adjusted for current information that indicates the future is reasonably 
expected to differ from the past 
 
 
Risk-free interest rate 
 
Based on U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of the grant 
 
Dividend yield 
 
Based on the historical dividend yield of
 BB&T's stock, adjusted to reflect the 
expected dividend yield over the expected life of the option 
 
 
Volatility factor 
 
Based on the historical volatility of the stoc
k price, adjusted for current information 
that indicates the future is reasonably expected to differ from the past 
 
 
  
119 
 
The following weighted-average assumptions were used for grants during 2013, 2012, and 2011: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
 
2012 
 
2011 
 
 
Assumptions: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Risk-free interest rate 
 
 1.3 
% 
 
 1.5 
% 
 
 
 1.7 
% 
 
 
 
Dividend yield 
 
 3.6 
 
 
 4.4 
 
 
 
 3.5 
 
 
 
 
Volatility factor 
 
 28.0 
 
 
 33.0 
 
 
 
 37.2 
 
 
 
 
Expected life 
 
 7.0 
yrs 
 
 7.0 
yrs 
 
 
 7.4 
yrs 
 
 
Fair value of options per share 
$
 5.48 
 
$ 
 6.07 
 
 
$
 7.45 
 
 
 
BB&T previously issued grants to non-executive employees consisting of stock options and RSUs, while recent grants to 
non-executive employees have primarily consisted of RS
Us. A summary of selected da
ta related to equity-based 
compensation costs follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013 
 
 
2012  
 
2011  
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Equity-based compensation expense 
$ 
 96 
 
$ 
 97
$
 98
 
 
Income tax benefit from equity-based compensation expense 
 
 36 
 
 
 36
 
 36
 
 
Intrinsic value of options exercised and RSUs that vested during the year 
 
 102 
 
 
 62
 
 54
 
 
Grant date fair value of equity-based 
awards that vested during the year 
 
 80 
 
 
 88
 
 76
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013  
 
2012  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
Unrecognized compensation cost related to equity-based awards 
 
 
$ 
 94
$
 98
 
 
Weighted-average life over which compensation cost is expected to be recognized (years) 
 
 
 2.1
 
 2.0
 
 
The following tables present the 
activity during 2013 related to equ
ity-based compensation awards: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wtd. Avg. 
 
 
 
 
 
Wtd. Avg. 
 
Aggregate 
 
Remaining 
 
 
 
 
 
Exercise 
 
Intrinsic 
 
Contractual 
 
 
 
 
Options
Price
 
Value 
 
 Life 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions, except per share data, shares in thousands)
 
 
 
Outstanding at January 1, 2013 
 45,391 
$
 34.15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Granted 
 404 
 
 30.08 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exercised 
 (3,507)
 
 27.14 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Forfeited or expired 
 (4,292)
 
 32.86 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Outstanding at December 31, 2013 
 37,996 
 
 34.90 
 
$ 
 140 
 
 3.7 
yrs
 
 
Exercisable at December 31, 2013 
 31,354 
 
 36.32 
 
 
 80 
 
 2.9 
 
 
 
Exercisable and expected to vest at December 31, 2013 
 37,513 
 
 34.99 
 
 
 136 
 
 3.7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Wtd. Avg. 
 
 
 
 
Restricted
 
Grant Date 
 
 
 
 
Shares/Units
 
 
Fair Value
 
 
 
 
(shares in thousands)
 
 
 
N
onvested at January 1, 2013 
 13,931 
 
$
 19.26 
 
 
 
Granted 
 3,995 
 
 
 25.63 
 
 
 
Vested 
 (2,464)
 
 
 22.05 
 
 
 
Forfeited 
 (281)
 
 
 20.45 
 
 
N
onvested at December 31, 2013 
 15,181 
 
 
 20.46 
 
 
Expected to vest at December 31, 2013 
 13,763 
 
 
 20.49 
 
 
Share Repurchase Activity 
 
At December 31, 2013, BB&T was authorized to repurchase an additional 44 million shares under the June 27, 2006 Board 
of Directors™ authorization. No shares of common stock were 
repurchased under this plan 
during 2013, 2012 or 2011. 
  
120 
 
NOTE 11. AOCI 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2013
 
Unrecognized 
Net Pension 
and 
Postretirement 
Costs 
 
Unrealized Net 
Gains (Losses) 
on Cash Flow 
Hedges 
Unrealized 
Net Gains 
(Losses) on 
AFS Securities
FDIC's Share 
of Unrealized 
(Gains) Losses 
on AFS 
Securities 
 
Other, net 
Total
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
AOCI balance, January 1, 2013
 
$
 (714)
$
 (173)
$
 598 
$
 (256)
 
$ 
 (14)
$
 (559)
 
OCI before reclassifications, net of tax 
 
 354 
 
 127 
 
 (669)
 
 (18)
 
 
 (2)
 
 (208)
 
Amounts reclassified from AOCI: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Personnel expense 
 
 91 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 91 
 
 
Interest income 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 97 
 
 

   
 
 
 2 
 
 99 
 
 
Interest expense 
 
 

   
 
 77 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 77 
 
 
FDIC loss share income, net 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 63 
 
 
 

   
 
 63 
 
 
Securities (gains) losses, net 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 (51)
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 (51)
 
 
 
Total before income taxes 
 
 91 
 
 77 
 
 46 
 
 63 
 
 
 2 
 
 279 
 
 
 
Less: Income taxes 
 
 34 
 
 29 
 
 17 
 
 24 
 
 
 1 
 
 105 
 
 
 
 
N
et of income taxes 
 
 57 
 
 48 
 
 29 
 
 39 
 
 
 1 
 
 174 
 
N
et change in AOCI 
 
 411 
 
 175 
 
 (640)
 
 21 
 
 
 (1)
 
 (34)
AOCI balance, December 31, 2013 
$
 (303)
$
 2 
$
 (42)
$
 (235)
 
$
 
 (15)
$
 (593)
 
Year Ended December 31, 2012
 
 
Unrecognized 
Net Pension 
and 
Postretirement 
Costs 
Unrealized Net 
Gains (Losses) 
on Cash Flow 
Hedges 
 
Unrealized 
Net Gains 
(Losses) on 
AFS Securities
FDIC's Share 
of Unrealized 
(Gains) Losses 
on AFS 
Securities 
 
Other, net 
Total
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
AOCI balance, January 1, 2012
 
$
 (603)
$
 (159)
$
 263 
$
 (195)
 
$ 
 (19)
$
 (713)
 
OCI before reclassifications, net of tax 
 (158)
 (52)
 280 
 (113)
 

   
 (43)
 
Amounts reclassified from AOCI: 
 
 
Personnel expense 
 76 
 

  
 

   
 

   
 

   
 76 
 
 
Interest income 
 

   
 (11)
 76 
 

   
 8 
 73 
 
 
Interest expense 
 

   
 72
 

   
 

   
 

   
 72 
 
 
FDIC loss share income, net 
 

   
 

  
 

   
 83 
 

   
 83 
 
 
Securities (gains) losses, net 
 

   
 

  
 12 
 

   
 

   
 12 
 
 
 
Total before income taxes 
 76 
 61
 88 
 83 
 8 
 316 
 
 
 
Less: Income taxes 
 29 
 23
 33 
 31 
 3 
 119 
 
 
 
 
N
et of income taxes 
 47 
 38
 55 
 52 
 5 
 197 
 
N
et change in AOCI 
 (111)
 (14)
 335 
 (61)
 5 
 154 
AOCI balance, December 31, 2012 
$
 (714)
$
 (173)
$
 598 
$
 (256)
 
$ 
 (14)
$
 (559)
 
  
121 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 
 
Unrecognized 
Net Pension 
and 
Postretirement 
Costs 
Unrealized Net 
Gains (Losses) 
on Cash Flow 
Hedges 
 
Unrealized 
Net Gains 
(Losses) on 
AFS Securities
FDIC's Share 
of Unrealized 
(Gains) Losses 
on AFS 
Securities 
 
Other, net 
Total
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
AOCI balance, January 1, 2011
 
$
 (368)
$
 (47)
$
 (157)
$
 (176)
 
$ 
 1 
$
 (747)
 
Transfers 
 
 

   
 
 

  
 
 21 
 
 

   
 
 
 (21)
 
 

   
 
OCI before reclassifications, net of tax 
 (256)
 (141)
 440 
 (50)
 (3)
 (10)
 
Amounts reclassified from AOCI: 
 
 
Personnel expense 
 34 
 

  
 

   
 

   
 

   
 34 
 
 
Interest income 
 

   
 (26)
 (4)
 

   
 6 
 (24)
 
 
Interest expense 
 

   
 72
 

   
 

   
 

   
 72 
 
 
FDIC loss share income, net 
 

   
 

  
 

   
 50 
 

   
 50 
 
 
Securities (gains) losses, net 
 

   
 

  
 (62)
 

   
 

   
 (62)
 
 
 
Total before income taxes 
 34 
 46
 (66)
 50 
 6 
 70 
 
 
 
Less: Income taxes 
 13 
 17
 (25)
 19 
 2 
 26 
 
 
 
 
N
et of income taxes 
 21 
 29
 (41)
 31 
 4 
 44 
 
N
et change in AOCI 
 (235)
 (112)
 420 
 (19)
 (20)
 34 
AOCI balance, December 31, 2011 
$
 (603)
$
 (159)
$
 263 
$
 (195)
 
$ 
 (19)
$
 (713)
 
NOTE 12. Income Taxes
 
 
The provision for income taxes
 comprised the following: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
 
2012
 
 
2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Current expense:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Federal 
$
 1,004 
$ 
 273 
 
$
 83 
 
 
 
State 
 
 100 
 
 70 
 
 
 26 
 
 
 
Foreign 
 
 3 
 
 2 
 
 
 2 
 
 
Total current expense 
 
 1,107 
 
 345 
 
 
 111 
 
 
Deferred expense: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Federal 
 
 256 
 
 396 
 
 
 163 
 
 
 
State 
 
 32 
 
 23 
 
 
 22 
 
 
Total deferred expense 
 
 288 
 
 419 
 
 
 185 
 
 
Provision for income taxes 
$
 1,395 
$
 
 764 
 
$
 296 
 
 
The foreign income tax expense is related to income gene
rated on assets controlled by a foreign subsidiary. 
 
The reasons for the difference between the provision for inco
me taxes and the amount comput
ed by applying the statutory 
Federal income tax rate to income be
fore income taxes were as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
 
2012
 
 
2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
 
Federal income taxes at statutory rate of 35% 
$
 1,093 
 
$
 977 
 
 
$ 
 570 
 
 
 
Increase (decrease) in provision for income taxes as a result of: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
State income taxes, net of Federal tax benefit 
 
 86 
 
 
 61 
 
 
 
 31 
 
 
 
 
Federal tax credits 
 
 (152)
 
 
 (126)
 
 
 
 (115)
 
 
 
 
Tax exempt income 
 
 (128)
 
 
 (133)
 
 
 
 (135)
 
 
 
 
N
ontaxable gain on termination of leveraged lease 
 
 

   
 
 
 (12)
 
 
 
 (22)
 
 
 
 
Adjustments for uncertain tax positions 
 
 516 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 
 
Other, net 
 
 (20)
 
 
 (3)
 
 
 
 (33)
 
 
 
Provision for income taxes 
$
 1,395 
 
$
 764 
 
 
$ 
 296 
 
 
 
Effective income tax rate 
 
 44.7 
%
 
 27.4 
% 
 
 
 18.2 
%
 
 
  
122 
 
The tax effects of temporary differences that gave rise to si
gnificant portions of the net 
deferred tax assets and liabilities 
are 
reflected in the table below. Net deferred tax assets are inclu
ded in other assets and net deferred tax liabilities are include
d in 
accounts payable and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
 
 
2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Deferred tax assets:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ALLL 
$ 
 655 
 
$
 771 
 
 
 
Postretirement plans 
 
 180 
 
 
 432 
 
 
 
N
et unrealized loss on AFS securities 
 
 172 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 
Equity-based 
compensation 
 
 152 
 
 
 144 
 
 
 
Reserves and expense accruals 
 
 181 
 
 
 150 
 
 
 
N
et unrealized loss on cash flow hedges 
 
 

   
 
 
 105 
 
 
 
Other 
 
 189 
 
 
 213 
 
 
Total deferred tax assets 
 
 1,529 
 
 
 1,815 
 
 
Deferred tax liabilities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prepaid pension plan expense 
 
 431 
 
 
 373 
 
 
 
MSRs 
 
 380 
 
 
 201 
 
 
 
Lease financing 
 
 315 
 
 
 270 
 
 
 
Loan fees and expenses 
 
 263 
 
 
 244 
 
 
 
Identifiable intangible assets 
 
 128 
 
 
 161 
 
 
 
Depreciation 
 
 59 
 
 
 57 
 
 
 
Derivatives and hedging 
 
 45 
 
 
 163 
 
 
 
N
et unrealized gain on AFS securities 
 
 

   
 
 
 201 
 
 
 
Other 
 
 61 
 
 
 70 
 
 
Total deferred tax liabilities 
 
 1,682 
 
 
 1,740 
 
 
 
 
N
et deferred tax asset (liability) 
$ 
 (153)
 
$
 75 
 
 
On a periodic basis, BB&T evaluates its income tax positions
 based on tax laws and regu
lations and financial reporting 
considerations, and records adjustments as appropriate. This 
evaluation takes into consider
ation the status of current taxing 
authorities™ examinations of BB&T™s tax retu
rns, recent positions taken 
by the taxing authorities on
 similar transactions, if 
any, and the overall tax environment in 
relation to tax-advantaged tr
ansactions. The following table presents changes in 
unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
 
2012
 
 
2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Beginning balance of unrecognized tax benefits 
$
 297 
$ 
 301 
 
$
 292 
 
 
 
Additions based on tax positi
ons related to current year 
 
 18 
 
 14 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 
Additions for tax positions of prior years 
 
 343 
 
 

   
 
 
 6 
 
 
 
Settlements 
 
 

   
 
 (5)
 
 
 (1)
 
 
 
Unrecognized deferred tax bene
fits from business acquisitions
 
 
 (14)
 
 (13)
 
 
 4 
 
 
Ending balance of unrecognized tax benefits 
$
 644 
$
 
 297 
 
$
 301 
 
 
The amount of unrecognized Federal and st
ate tax benefits that would have impacted the effective tax rate if recognized was 
$642 million, $297 million, and $299 million as of December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The portion of the gross 
state unrecognized tax benefits that would 
be offset by the tax benefit of the fede
ral deduction would not impact the effective
 
tax rate. In addition, the Company had $213 million, $37 million and $39 million in liabilities for tax-related interest and 
penalties recorded on its Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively. Total net interest 
and penalties related to unrecogn
ized tax benefits recognized 
in the 2013 Consolidated S
tatement of Income was $176 
million. Total net interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax
 benefits recognized in th
e 2012 and 2011 Consolidated 
Statements of Income was immaterial. BB&T classifies interest and penalties related to income taxes as a component of the 
provision for income tax
es in the Consolidated
 Statements of Income. 
 
  
123 
 
The IRS has completed its Federal income tax examinations
 of BB&T through 
2007. Various years remain subject to 
examination by state taxing authorities. In February 2010, BB&T received an IRS statutory notice of deficiency for tax years 
2002-2007 asserting a 
liability for taxes, penalties and interest of approximate
ly $892 million related to the disallowance of 
foreign tax credits and other deductions cl
aimed by a subsidiary in connection with
 a financing transaction. BB&T paid the 
disputed tax, penalties and interest in Marc
h 2010 and filed a lawsuit s
eeking a refund in the U.S. Court of Federal Claims. 
On September 20, 2013, the court denied th
e refund claim. BB&T has filed a Notice of
 Appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Federal Circuit. As of December 31, 2013, the exposure for this financing transaction is fully reserved. Depending on 
the outcome of the appeals process, as well as the current IRS examination, it is reasonably possible that changes in the 
amount of unrecognized tax benefits, penalties and interest could result in a benefit of up to $750 million during the next 
twelve months. The ultimate resolutio
n of these matters may take longer. 
 
NOTE 13. Benefit Plans 
 
Defined Benefit Retirement Plans 
 
BB&T provides a defined benefit retirement 
plan qualified under the Internal Revenu
e Code that covers most employees. 
Benefits are based on years of service, age at retirement and the employee's compensation during the five highest consecutive 
years of earnings within the la
st ten years of employment. 
 
In addition, supplemental retirement benefits
 are provided to certain key officers
 under supplemental defined benefit 
executive retirement plans, 
which are not qualified under the 
Internal Revenue Code. 
Although technically 
unfunded plans, a 
Rabbi Trust and insurance policies on the 
lives of the certain covered employees are available to finance future benefits. 
 
The following actuarial assumptions were
 used to determine net periodic pension costs for the qualified pension plan: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013 
 
2012  
 
2011  
 
 
Weighted average assumed discount rate 
 4.25 
% 
 
 4.82 
% 
 
 5.52 
%
 
 
Weighted average expected long-term rate of return on plan assets 
 8.00 
 
 
 8.00 
 
 
 8.00 
 
 
 
Assumed long-term rate of annual compensation increases 
 4.50 
 
 
 4.50 
 
 
 4.50 
 
 
 
The weighted average expected long-term rate of return on plan assets represents the average rate of return expected to be 
earned on plan assets over the period the be
nefits included in the benefit obligation ar
e to be paid. In developing the expecte
d 
rate of return, BB&T considers long-term co
mpound annualized returns of historical 
market data for each asset category, as 
well as historical actual returns on the plan
 assets. Using this reference informati
on, the Company develops forward-looking 
return expectations for each asset category and a weighted average expected long-term rate of return for the plan based on 
target asset allocations contained in BB&T's Investment Policy State
ment. The expected rate of re
turn has been 
decreased to 
7.75% for fiscal 2014.  
 
Financial data relative to the defined benefit pension plans is 
summarized in the fo
llowing tables for th
e years indicated. The
 
qualified pension plan prepaid asset is recorded on the Conso
lidated Balance Sheets as a com
ponent of other assets and the 
nonqualified pension plans accrued liability is recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as a component of other 
liabilities. The data is calculated using an act
uarial measurement date of December 31. 
 
  
124 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013 
 
2012  
 
2011  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
N
et Periodic Pension Cost: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Service cost  
$
 150 
$ 
 120 
 
$
 105 
 
 
 
Interest cost  
 
 120 
 
 110 
 
 
 103 
 
 
 
Estimated return on plan assets  
 
 (257)
 
 (200)
 
 
 (197)
 
 
 
N
et amortization and othe
r
 
 
 91 
 
 76 
 
 
 34 
 
 
 
 
N
et periodic benefit cost  
 
 104 
 
 106 
 
 
 45 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pre-Tax Amounts Recognized in
 Total Comprehensive Income: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et actuarial loss (gain) 
 
 (535)
 
 270 
 
 
 388 
 
 
 
N
et amortization 
 
 (91)
 
 (76)
 
 
 (34)
 
 
 
 
N
et amount recognized in OCI 
 
 (626)
 
 194 
 
 
 354 
 
 
 
 
 
Total net periodic pension costs (income) recognized in 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
total comprehensive income, pre-tax 
$
 (522)
$ 
 300 
 
$
 399 
 
 
The following actuarial assumptions were 
used to determine benefit obligations: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013  
 
2012  
 
 
Weighted average assumed discount rate 
5.10 
% 
 
4.25 
%
 
 
Assumed rate of annual compensation increases 
5.00 
 
 
4.50 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Qualified Pension Plan 
 
Nonqualified Pension Plans 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
2013  
2012  
 
2013  
 
2012  
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Projected benefit obligation, beginning of year 
$
 2,548 
$
 2,055 
$
 287 
 
$
 207 
 
 
 
Service cost 
 139 
 113 
 
 11 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
Interest cost 
 107 
 100 
 
 12 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
Actuarial (gain) loss 
 (294)
 296 
 
 2 
 
 
 70 
 
  
 
Benefits paid 
 (63)
 (57)
 
 (8)
 
 
 (7)
 
 
 
Acquisitions 
 

   
 41 
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 
Projected benefit obligation, end of year 
$
 2,437 
$
 2,548 
$
 304 
 
$
 287 
 
 
Accumulated benefit obligation, end of year 
$
 2,062 
$
 2,166 
$
 215 
 
$
 213 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Qualified Pension Plan
 
Nonqualified Pension Plans
 
 
 
 
 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
2013 
2012 
 
2013 
 
2012 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Fair value of plan assets, beginning of year 
$
 2,952 
$
 2,478 
$
 Š   
 
$
 Š   
 
 
 
Actual return on plan assets 
 499 
 
 295 
 
 Š   
 
 
 Š   
 
 
 
Employer contributions 
 345 
 202 
 
 8 
 
 
 7 
 
 
 
Benefits paid 
 (63)
 (57)
 
 (8)
 
 
 (7)
 
 
 
Acquisitions 
 Š   
 34 
 
 Š   
 
 
 Š   
 
 
Fair value of plan assets, end of year 
$
 3,733 
$
 2,952 
$
 Š   
 
$
 Š   
 
 
Funded status at end of year 
$
 1,296 
$
 404 
$
 (304)
 
$
 (287)
 
 
The following are the pre-tax amounts recognized in AOCI: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Qualified Pension Plan 
 
Nonqualified Pension Plans
 
 
 
 
 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
2013  
2012  
 
2013  
2012  
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Prior service credit (cost) 
$
 -   
$
 1 
 
$
 (2)
 
$
 (1)
 
 
N
et actuarial loss 
 (377)
 (993)
 
 
 (117)
 
 (128)
 
 
 
N
et amount recognized 
$
 (377)
$
 (992)
 
$
 (119)
 
$
 (129)
 
 
  
125 
 
The following table presents the amount expected to be amorti
zed from AOCI into net period
ic pension cost during 2014: 
 
 
 
 
Qualified 
 
Nonqualified
 
 
 
 
Pension Plan
 
 
Pension Plans
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
N
et actuarial gain (loss) 
$
 (1)
 
$
 (11)
 
 
 
N
et amount expected to be amortized in 2014 
$
 (1)
 
$
 (11)
 
 
Employer contributions to the qualifie
d pension plan are in amounts between the minimum required for funding standard 
accounts and the maximum amount deductible for federal income tax purposes. Management was not required to make a 
contribution to the qualified pension plan
 during 2013; however, management made 
discretionary contributions of $345 
million during 2013 and a discretionary contribution of $110 mi
llion during the first quarter of 2014. Management may make 
additional contributions in 2014. For the nonqualified plans, the employer contributions are based on benefit payments. 
 
The following table reflects the estimated benefit payments for the periods presented: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Qualified 
 
Nonqualified
 
 
 
Pension Plan
 
 
Pension Plans
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
2014 
$
 70 
 
$
 11 
 
 
2015 
 78 
 
 11 
 
 
2016 
 86 
 
 12 
 
 
2017 
 95 
 
 13 
 
 
2018 
 104 
 
 14 
 
 
2019-2023 
 673 
 
 95 
 
 
BB&T's primary total return objective is 
to achieve returns that, over the long
 term, will fund retirement liabilities and 
provide for the desired plan benefits in
 a manner that satisfies the fiduciary requ
irements of the Employee Retirement Income 
Security Act of 1974. The plan assets ha
ve a long-term time horizon that runs concurrent with the average life expectancy of 
the participants. As such, the Plan can assume a time horizon that extends well beyond a full market cycle, and can assume an 
above-average level of risk, as measured by the standard devi
ation of annual return. It is 
expected, however, that both 
professional investment management and sufficient portfoli
o diversification will smooth volatility
 and help to generate a 
reasonable consistency of return. The investments are broadl
y diversified among economic s
ector, industry, quality and size 
in order to reduce risk and to produce 
incremental return. Within appr
oved guidelines and restricti
ons, investment managers 
have wide discretion over the timing and selection of individual investments. 
 
BB&T periodically reviews its asset allocation and investment po
licy and makes changes to its target asset allocation. BB&T 
has established guidelines within each asset category to ensure 
the appropriate balance of risk and reward. For the year ended 
December 31, 2013, the target asset allocations for the plan assets included a range of 40% to 52% for U.S. equity securities, 
10% to 20% for international equity secu
rities, 25% to 40% for fixed income se
curities, and 0% to
 12% for alternative 
investments, which include real estate, hedge funds, private equ
ities and commodities, with any remainder to be held in cash 
equivalents. 
 
The fair value of the pension plan assets at December 31, 2013 and 2012 by asset category are reflected in the following 
tables. The three level fair value hierarchy that describes the inpu
ts used to measure these plan assets is defined in Note 17 
"Fair Value Disclosures.ﬂ 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2013
 
December 31, 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
Total
 
Level 1 
 
Level 2 
Level 3 
 
Total 
Level 1 
 
Level 2 
Level 3 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Cash and cash-equivalents 
$
 74 
$
 74 
$
 Š   
$
 Š   
$
 89 
$
 89 
 
$
 Š   
$
 Š   
 
 
U.S. equity securities  
 1,701 
 1,701 
 Š   
 Š   
 1,226 
 1,226 
 
 Š   
 Š   
 
 
International equity securities  
 
 741 
 
 626 
 
 115 
 
 Š   
 
 570 
 
 462 
 
 
 108 
 
 Š   
 
 
Fixed income securities 
 
 1,090 
 
 94 
 
 996 
 
 Š   
 
 951 
 
 126 
 
 
 825 
 
 Š   
 
 
Alternative investments 
 
 101 
 
 Š   
 
 Š   
 
 101 
 
 98 
 
 Š   
 
 
 Š   
 
 98 
 
 
 
Total plan assets
 
$
 3,707 
$
 2,495 
$
 1,111 
$
 101 
$
 2,934 
$
 1,903 
 
$
 933 
$
 98 
 
  
  
126 
 
U.S. equity securities include 3.7 million shares of BB&T common stock valued at $138 million and $107 million at 
December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. International equity securities include a common/commingled fund that consists 
of assets from several accounts, pooled t
ogether, to reduce management and administ
ration costs. Total plan assets exclude 
accrued income of $26 million and $18 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 
 
The following table present
s the activity for Level 3 plan assets, all 
of which are in alternative investments: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Years Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013 
 
2012 
 
2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions) 
 
 
Balance at beginning of year 
$
 98 
 
$
 99 
$
 124 
 
 
 
Actual return on plan assets
 
 
 11 
 
 
 7 
 
 9 
 
 
 
Purchases, sales and settlements
 
 (8)
 
 (8)
 (34)
 
 
Balance at end of year 
$
 101 
 
$
 98 
$
 99 
 
 
Defined Contribution Plans 
 
BB&T offers a 401(k) Savings Plan and ot
her defined contribution plans that perm
it employees to contribute from 1% to 
50% of their cash compensation. For full-time 
employees who are 21 years of age or ol
der with one year or more of service, 
BB&T makes matching contributions of up to 6% of the em
ployee's compensation. BB&T's contribution to the 401(k) 
Savings Plan and nonqualified defined contribution plans totaled $102 million, $97 million and $85 million for the years 
ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. BB&T also offers defined contribution plans to certain employees of 
subsidiaries who do no
t participate in the 401(k) Savings Plan. 
 
Other benefits 
 
There are various other employment contracts, deferred comp
ensation arrangements and covenants not to compete with 
selected members of management and certain retirees. These plan
s and their obligations are not material to the financial 
statements.
 
 
NOTE 14. Commitments and Contingencies 
 
BB&T utilizes a variety of financial instruments to meet the financ
ing needs of clients and to redu
ce exposure to fluctuations 
in interest rates. These financial instrume
nts include commitments to extend credit,
 letters of credit and financial guarantees
 
and derivatives. BB&T also has commitmen
ts to fund certain afford
able housing investment
s and contingent liabilities 
related to certain sold loans. 
 
Commitments to extend, originate 
or purchase credit are primarily lines of cr
edit to businesses and consumers and have 
specified rates and maturity dates. Many of these commitments also have adverse change clauses, which allow BB&T to 
cancel the commitment due to deterioratio
n in the borrowers™ creditworthiness. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
 
 
2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Letters of credit and financial guarantees written 
$ 
 4,355 
 
$
 5,164 
 
 
Carrying amount of the liability for letter of credit guarantees 
 
 39 
 
 
 30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investments related to afford
able housing and historic bu
ilding rehabilitation projects 
 
 1,302 
 
 
 1,223 
 
 
Amount of future funding commitments include
d in investments related to affordable 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
housing and historic rehabilitation projects 
 
 464 
 
 
 461 
 
 
Lending exposure to these affordable housing projects 
 
 151 
 
 
 87 
 
Tax credits subject to recapture rela
ted to affordable 
housing projects 
 
 250 
 
 
 193 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investments in private equity and similar investments 
 
 291 
 
 
 323 
 
 
Future funding commitments to private 
equity and similar investments 
 
 245 
 
 
 129 
 
 
  
127 
 
Letters of credit and financial guarantees written are unco
nditional commitments issued
 by BB&T to guarantee the 
performance of a customer to a third 
party. These guarantees are pr
imarily issued to support
 public and private borrowing 
arrangements, including commercial paper issuance, bond financin
g and similar transactions, the majority of which are to tax 
exempt entities. The credit risk 
involved in the issuance of th
ese guarantees is essentially the same as that involved in 
extending loans to clients and as such, th
e instruments are collateralized when necessary. 
 
BB&T invests in certain affordable housin
g and historic building rehabilitation proj
ects throughout its market area as a 
means of supporting local communities, and receives tax credits related to these investments. BB&T typically acts as a 
limited partner in these investments and does not exert control 
over the operating or financia
l policies of the partnerships. 
BB&T typically provides financing during 
the construction and development of the pr
operties; however, permanent financing 
is generally obtained from independent third parties upon comp
letion of a project. Tax credits are subject to recapture by 
taxing authorities based on compliance feat
ures required to be met at the project lev
el. BB&T™s maximum potential exposure 
to losses relative to investments in VIEs is generally li
mited to the sum of the outstan
ding balance, future funding 
commitments and any r
elated loans to the entity. Lo
ans to these entities are underwritten in substantially the same manner as 
are other loans and are generally secured.  
 
BB&T has investments in and future funding commitments to ce
rtain private equity and sim
ilar investments. BB&T™s risk 
exposure relating to 
such commitments is generally lim
ited to the amount of investme
nts and future funding commitments 
made. 
 
A derivative is a financial instrument that derives its cash fl
ows, and therefore its value, by reference to an underlying 
instrument, index or interest rate. For additional disclosure
s related to BB&T™s derivatives refer to Note 18 ﬁDerivative 
Financial Instruments.ﬂ 
 
BB&T has sold certain mortgage-related lo
ans that contain recourse 
provisions. These provisions generally require BB&T to 
reimburse the investor for a share of any loss that is incurred af
ter the disposal of the property. BB&T also issues standard 
representations and warranties related to 
mortgage loan sales to GSEs. Refer to
 Note 6 ﬁLoan Servicingﬂ for additional 
disclosures related to these exposures. 
 
In the ordinary course of business, BB&T indemnifies its officer
s and directors to the fullest 
extent permitted by law against 
liabilities arising from pending litigation. BB&T also issues s
tandard representations and warranties in underwriting 
agreements, merger and acquisition agreements, loan sale
s, brokerage activities and other similar arrangements. 
Counterparties in many of these indemnification arrangemen
ts provide similar indemnifications to BB&T. Although these 
agreements often do not speci
fy limitations, BB&T does not believe that any payments related to these guarantees would 
materially change the financial positi
on or results of operations of BB&T. 
 
Legal Proceedings
 
 
The nature of BB&T™s business ordinarily results in a certai
n amount of claims, litigation, 
investigations and legal and 
administrative cases and proceedings, all of which are consider
ed incidental to the norm
al conduct of business. BB&T 
believes it has meritorious defenses to the claims asserted against
 it in its currently outstanding
 legal proceedings and, with
 
respect to such legal proceedings, intends to continue to defend itself vigorously, litigating or settling cases according to 
management™s judgment as to what is in th
e best interests of BB&T and its shareholders. 
 
On at least a quarterly basis, liabilities and contingencies in 
connection with outstanding legal proceedings are assessed 
utilizing the latest information available. For those matters where it is probable that BB&T will incur a loss and the amount 
of the loss can be reasonably 
estimated, a liability is recorded in the consolid
ated financial statements. These legal reserves
 
may be increased or decreased to reflect any relevant devel
opments on at least a quarterly basis. For other matters, where a 
loss is not probable or the amount of the loss is not estimable, legal reserves are not accrued. While the outcome of legal 
proceedings is inherently uncertain, base
d on information currently available, a
dvice of counsel and available insurance 
coverage, management believes that its established legal 
reserves are adequate and the liabilities arising from legal 
proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the cons
olidated financial position, conso
lidated results of operations 
or consolidated cash flows. However, in the event of unexpected
 future developments, it is
 possible that the ultimate 
resolution of these matters, if unfavorable, may be material 
to the consolidated financial pos
ition, consolidated results of 
operations or consolidated cash flows of BB&T. 
 
  
128 
 
NOTE 15. Regulatory Requirements and Other Restrictions 
 
Branch Bank is required by the FRB to maintain reserve balances in
 the form of vault cash or de
posits with the FRB based on 
specified percentages of certain deposit types, subject to various adjustments. At December 31, 2013, the net reserve 
requirement amounted to $303 million. 
 
Branch Bank is subject to laws and regulations that limit the amount of dividends it can pay. In addition, both BB&T and 
Branch Bank are subject to various regulatory restrictions relating 
to the payment of dividends,
 including requirements to 
maintain capital at or above regulatory minimums, and to 
remain ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ under the prompt corrective action 
regulations. BB&T does not expect that any of these laws, re
gulations or policies will materially affect the ability of Branch 
Bank to pay dividends. 
 
BB&T is subject to various regulatory capital 
requirements administered by the Federa
l banking agencies. Failure to meet 
minimum capital requirements can initiate 
certain mandatoryŠand possibly addition
al discretionaryŠactions by regulators 
that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on th
e financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the
 
regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the 
Company must meet specific capital guidelines that involve 
quantitative measures of assets, liabilities a
nd certain off-balance-sheet items calculated
 pursuant to regulatory directives. 
BB&T™s capital amounts and classification also are subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk 
weightings and other factors. BB&T is in
 full compliance with these 
requirements. Banking regu
lations also identify five 
capital categories for insured 
depository institutions: w
ell-capitalized, adequately capitalized
, undercapitalized, significant
ly 
undercapitalized and critically undercapitalized. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, BB&T and Branch Bank were classified as 
ﬁwell-capitalized.ﬂ 
 
Quantitative measures establish
ed by regulation to ensure capital adequacy 
require BB&T to maintain minimum amounts and 
ratios of total and Tier 1 capital (as define
d in the regulations) to risk-weighted assets (as defined), and of Tier 1 capital 
to 
average tangible assets (leverage ratio). 
 
Risk-based capital ratios, which include 
Tier 1 Capital, Total Capital and Tier 1 Co
mmon Equity, are calculated based on 
regulatory guidance related to
 the measurement of capital and risk-weighted a
ssets. During the seco
nd quarter 
of 2013, 
BB&T completed its reevaluation process re
lated to calculating risk-weighted assets
 and determined that certain additional 
adjustments were required in order to conform to regulatory 
guidance. These adjustments resulted in an increase to risk-
weighted assets and a decrease in
 BB&T™s risk-based capital ratios. 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2013 
 
December 31, 2012 
 
 
 
 
Actual Capital 
Capital Requirements 
Actual Capital 
 
Capital Requirements 
 
 
 
 
Ratio 
 
Amount 
Minimum 
 
Well-Capitalized
 
Ratio 
 
Amount 
 
Minimum 
Well-Capitalized
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
Tier 1 Capital:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BB&T 
 
11.8 
% 
 
$ 
 16,074 
$
 5,460 
$
 8,189
10.5 
%
$
 14,373 
 
$ 
 5,455 
$
 8,182 
 
Branch Bank 
 
11.9 
 
 
 
 15,785 
 
 5,315 
 
 7,973
11.2 
 
 
 14,587 
 
 
 5,202 
 
 7,803 
Total Capital: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BB&T 
 
14.3 
 
 
 
 19,514 
 
 10,919 
 
 13,649
13.4 
 
 
 18,267 
 
 
 10,909 
 
 13,637 
 
Branch Bank 
 
13.4 
 
 
 
 17,872 
 
 10,631 
 
 13,288
13.0 
 
 
 16,866 
 
 
 10,404 
 
 13,005 
Leverage Capital: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BB&T 
 
9.3 
 
 
 
 16,074 
 
 6,897 
 
 8,621
8.2 
 
 
 14,373 
 
 
 7,001 
 
 8,751 
 
Branch Bank 
 
9.4 
 
 
 
 15,785 
 
 5,058 
 
 8,429
8.6 
 
 
 14,587 
 
 
 5,099 
 
 8,498 
 
As an approved seller/servicer, Branch Bank is required to mainta
in minimum levels of shareholders™ equity, as specified by 
various agencies, including the United St
ates Department of Housing and Urban Development, GNMA, FHLMC and FNMA. 
At December 31, 2013 and 2012, Branch Bank™s equity was above all required levels. 
  
129 
 
NOTE 16. Parent Company Financial Statements 
 
 
Parent Company
 
 
Condensed Balance Sheets
 
 
December 31, 2013 and 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013 
 
2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions) 
 
 
Assets: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash and due from banks 
$
 

   
 
$ 
 4,239 
 
 
 
Interest-bearing deposits with banks  
 
 5,727 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 
AFS securities at fair value 
 
 26 
 
 
 27 
 
 
 
HTM securities at amortized cost 
 
 35 
 
 
 37 
 
 
 
Investment in banking subsidiaries 
 
 22,314 
 
 
 21,189 
 
 
 
Investment in other subsidiaries 
 
 1,281 
 
 
 1,837 
 
 
 
Advances to / receivables from banking subsidiaries 
 
 106 
 
 
 44 
 
 
 
Advances to / receivables from other subsidiaries 
 
 2,308 
 
 
 2,408 
 
 
 
Other assets 
 
 194 
 
 
 246 
 
 
 
 
Total assets 
$
 31,991 
 
$ 
 30,027 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Short-term borrowed funds 
$
 24 
 
$ 
 37 
 
 
 
Short-term borrowed funds 
due to subsidiaries 
 
 50 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 
Dividends payable 
 
 

   
 
 
 170 
 
 
 
Accounts payable and other liabilities 
 
 76 
 
 
 30 
 
 
 
Long-term debt 
 
 9,032 
 
 
 8,567 
 
 
 
 
Total liabilities 
 
 9,182 
 
 
 8,804 
 
 
 
 
Total shareholders' equity 
 
 22,809 
 
 
 21,223 
 
 
 
 
Total liabilities and shareholders' equity 
$
 31,991 
 
$ 
 30,027 
 
 
  
130 
 
 
Parent Company
 
 
Condensed Income Statements
 
 
Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013  
2012  
 
2011  
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Income: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dividends from banking subsidiaries 
$
 1,220 
$
 1,720 
 
$
 620 
 
 
 
Dividends from other subsidiaries 
 79 
 
 81 
 
 
 278 
 
 
 
Interest and other income from subsidiaries 
 67 
 
 79 
 
 
 107 
 
 
 
Other income 
 14 
 
 1 
 
 
 8 
 
 
 
 
Total income 
 1,380 
 
 1,881 
 
 
 1,013 
 
 
Expenses: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest expense 
 219 
 
 239 
 
 
 334 
 
 
 
Other expenses 
 50 
 
 52 
 
 
 34 
 
 
 
 
Total expenses 
 269 
 
 291 
 
 
 368 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Income before income tax
es and equity in  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
undistributed earnings of subsidiaries 
 1,111 
 
 1,590 
 
 
 645 
 
 
Income tax benefit 
 2 
 
 20 
 
 
 26 
 
 
Income before equity in undistri
buted earnings of subsidiaries 
 1,113 
 
 1,610 
 
 
 671 
 
 
Equity in undistributed earnings
 of subsidiaries in excess of 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dividends from subsidiaries 
 616 
 
 418 
 
 
 661 
 
 
N
et income  
 1,729 
 
 2,028 
 
 
 1,332 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
oncontrolling interests 
 50 
 
 49 
 
 
 43 
 
 
Dividends on preferred stock 
 117 
 
 63 
 
 
 

   
 
 
N
et income available to common shareholders 
$
 1,562 
$
 1,916 
 
$
 1,289 
 
 
 
Parent Company 
 
 
Condensed Statements of Comprehensive Income 
 
 
Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013  
 
 
2012  
 
 
2011  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions) 
 
 
N
et Income  
$
 1,729 
$ 
 2,028 
 
$
 1,332 
 
 
OCI, Net of Tax: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change in unrecognized pension and postretirement amounts 
 
 (4)
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 
 
Change in unrecognized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges 
 
 

   
 
 (2)
 
 
 (1)
 
 
 
Other, net 
 
 1 
 
 1 
 
 
 (8)
 
 
 
 
Total OCI 
 
 (3)
 
 (1)
 
 
 (9)
 
 
 
 
Total comprehensive income 
$
 1,726 
$ 
 2,027 
 
$
 1,323 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Income Tax Effect of Items Included in OCI 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change in unrecognized pension and postretirement amounts
 
$
 (1)
$ 
 

   
 
$
 

   
 
 
 
Change in unrecognized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges
 
 
 

   
 
 (1)
 
 
 

   
 
 
 
Other, net
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 (4)
 
 
  
131 
 
 
Parent Company
 
 
Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
 
 
Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011
 
 
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013  
 
2012  
 
2011  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions) 
 
 
Cash Flows From Operating Activities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et income  
$
 1,729 
$
 2,028 
 
$
 1,332 
 
 
 
Adjustments to reconcile net in
come to net cash provided by 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
operating activities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Equity in earnings of subsidiaries in excess of dividends 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
from subsidiaries 
 
 (616)
 
 (418)
 
 
 (661)
 
 
 
 
N
et change in other assets 
 
 95 
 
 265 
 
 
 63 
 
 
 
 
N
et change in accounts payable and accrued liabilities 
 
 42 
 
 (71)
 
 
 (3)
 
 
 
 
Other, net 
 
 (79)
 
 (228)
 
 
 20 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et cash from operating activities 
 
 1,171 
 
 1,576 
 
 
 751 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows From Investing Activities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Proceeds from sales, calls and maturities of AFS securities 
 
 24 
 
 26 
 
 
 49 
 
 
 
Purchases of AFS securities 
 
 (24)
 
 (26)
 
 
 (48)
 
 
 
Proceeds from maturities, calls and paydowns of HTM securities 
 
 2 
 
 4 
 
 
 24 
 
 
 
Investment in subsidiaries 
 
 (4)
 
 (30)
 
 
 (12)
 
 
 
Advances to subsidiaries 
 
 (5,815)
 
 (10,785)
 
 
 (20,306)
 
 
 
Proceeds from repayment of advances to subsidiaries 
 
 5,898 
 
 11,325 
 
 
 22,637 
 
 
 
N
et cash from business combinations 
 
 

   
 
 51 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 
N
et cash from divestitures 
 
 9 
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 
 
 
N
et cash from investing activities 
 
 90 
 
 565 
 
 
 2,344 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flows From Financing Activities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et change in long-term debt 
 
 499 
 
 (2,764)
 
 
 1,121 
 
 
 
N
et change in shor
t
-term borrowed funds 
 
 (13)
 
 (259)
 
 
 (509)
 
 
 
N
et change in advances from subsidiaries 
 
 50 
 
 (72)
 
 
 69 
 
 
 
N
et proceeds from common stock issue
d
 
 
 108 
 
 15 
 
 
 22 
 
 
 
N
et proceeds from preferred stock issue
d
 
 
 487 
 
 2,116 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 
Cash dividends paid on common and preferred stock 
 
 (912)
 
 (564)
 
 
 (446)
 
 
 
Other, net 
 
 8 
 
 62 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 
 
N
et cash from financing activities 
 
 227 
 
 (1,466)
 
 
 257 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents 
 
 1,488 
 
 675 
 
 
 3,352 
 
 
Cash and Cash Equivalent
s at Beginning of Year 
 
 4,239 
 
 3,564 
 
 
 212 
 
 
Cash and Cash Equivalents at End of Year 
$
 5,727 
$
 4,239 
 
$
 3,564 
 
 
NOTE 17. Fair Value Disclosures 
 
Various assets and liabilities are carried at fair value, includi
ng prime residential mortgage and commercial mortgage loans 
originated as LHFS. Accounting standards define fair value as the exchange price that would be received on the measurement 
date to sell an asset or the price paid to 
transfer a liability in the principal or mo
st advantageous market available to the e
ntity 
in an orderly transaction between market participan
ts, with a three level 
valuation input hierarchy. 
 
  
  
132 
 
The following tables present fair value information for 
assets and liabilities measured
 on a recurring basis: 
 
 
December 31, 2013
 
Total 
Level 1 
 
Level 2 
 
Level 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions) 
 
 
Assets: 
 
 
 
Trading securities  
$
 381 
$
 256 
$
 125 
$
 

   
 
 
 
AFS securities: 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Treasury 
 595 
 

   
 595 
 

   
 
 
 
 
MBS issued by GSE  
 17,929 
 

   
 17,929 
 

   
 
 
 
 
States and political subdivisions  
 1,851 
 

   
 1,851 
 

   
 
 
 
N
on-agency MBS 
 291 
 

   
 291 
 

   
 
 
 
Other 
 45 
 10 
 35 
 

   
 
 
 
 
Covered 
 1,393 
 

   
 532 
 861 
 
 
 
LHFS 
 1,222 
 

   
 1,222 
 

   
 
 
 
Residential MSRs 
 1,047 
 

   
 

   
 1,047 
 
 
 
Derivative assets: 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate contracts  
 862 
 

   
 859 
 3 
 
 
 
 
Foreign exchange contracts  
 2 
 

   
 2 
 

   
 
 
 
Private equity and similar investments 
 291 
 

   
 

   
 291 
 
 
 
 
Total assets 
$
 25,909 
$
 266 
$
 23,441 
$
 2,202 
 
 
Liabilities: 
 
 
 
Derivative liabilities: 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate contracts  
$
 967 
$
 

   
$
 953 
$
 14 
 
 
 
 
Foreign exchange contracts  
 3 
 

   
 3 
 

   
 
 
 
Short-term borrowings 
 84 
 

   
 84 
 

   
 
 
 
 
Total liabilities  
$
 1,054 
$
 

   
$
 1,040 
$
 14 
 
 
 
December 31, 2012
 
Total 
Level 1 
 
Level 2 
 
Level 3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions) 
 
 
Assets: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Trading securities  
$
 497 
$
 302 
$
 194 
$
 1 
 
 
 
AFS securities: 
 
 
 
 
U.S. Treasury 
 281 
 

   
 281 
 

   
 
 
 
 
GSE 
 9 
 

   
 9 
 

   
 
 
 
 
MBS issued by GSE  
 20,930 
 

   
 20,930 
 

   
 
 
 
 
States and political subdivisions  
 2,011 
 

   
 2,011 
 

   
 
 
 
 
N
on-agency MBS 
 312 
 

   
 312 
 

   
 
 
 
 
Other 
 3 
 2 
 1 
 

   
 
 
 
 
Covered 
 1,591 
 

   
 597 
 994 
 
 
 
LHFS 
 3,761 
 

   
 3,761 
 

   
 
 
 
Residential MSRs  
 627 
 

   
 

   
 627 
 
 
 
Derivative assets: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate contracts  
 1,446 
 

   
 1,391 
 55 
 
 
 
 
Foreign exchange contracts  
 4 
 

   
 4 
 

   
 
 
 
Private equity and similar investments 
 323 
 

   
 

   
 323 
 
 
 
 
Total assets 
$
 31,795 
$
 304 
$
 29,491 
$
 2,000 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Liabilities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Derivative liabilities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate contracts  
$
 1,434 
$
 

   
$
 1,433 
$
 1 
 
 
 
 
Foreign exchange contracts  
 3 
 

   
 3 
 

   
 
 
 
Short-term borrowings 
 98 
 

   
 98 
 

   
 
 
 
 
Total liabilities  
$
 1,535 
$
 

   
$
 1,534 
$
 1 
 
 
  
133 
 
The following discussion
 focuses on the valuation techniqu
es and significant inputs for Lev
el 2 and Level 3 assets and 
liabilities. 
 
A third-party pricing service is generally 
utilized in determining the fair value 
of the securities portfolio. Fair value 
measurements are derived from market-based pricing matrices that 
were developed using observ
able inputs that include 
benchmark yields, benchmark securities, reported trades, offers
, bids, issuer spreads and broker quotes. As described by 
security type below, additional inputs ma
y be used, or some inputs may not be app
licable. In the event 
that market observable 
data was not available, which would generally occur due to the 
lack of an active market for a gi
ven security, the valuation of 
the security would be subjective and may i
nvolve substantial judgment by management. 
 
Trading securities:
 Trading securities are composed of various types of de
bt and equity securities, but the majority consists 
of debt securities issued by the U.S. Treasury, GSEs, or st
ates and political subdivisions. The valuation techniques used for 
these investments are more fully discussed below. 
 
U.S. Treasury securities:
 Treasury securities are valued using quoted
 prices in active over 
the counter markets.  
 
GSE securities and MBS issued by GSE:
 GSE pass-through securities are valued usin
g market-based pricing matrices that are 
based on observable inputs including benchmark TBA security 
pricing and yield curves that were estimated based on U.S. 
Treasury yields and certain floating rate indices. The pricing ma
trices for these securities may also give consideration to poo
l-
specific data supplied directly by the GSE. GSE CMOs are valu
ed using market-based pricin
g matrices that are based on 
observable inputs including offers, bids, reported trades, de
aler quotes and market research reports, the characteristics of a 
specific tranche, market co
nvention prepayment 
speeds and benchmark yield curves as described above. 
 
States and political subdivisions:
 These securities are valued using mark
et-based pricing matrices that are based on 
observable inputs including MSRB reported trades, issuer 
spreads, material event notices and benchmark yield curves. 
 
Non-agency MBS:
 Pricing matrices for these securities are based on obse
rvable inputs including offers, bids, reported trades, 
dealer quotes and market research reports, the characteristics of a specific tranche, market convention prepayment speeds and 
benchmark yield curves as described above. 
 
Other securities:
 These securities consist primarily of mutual funds an
d corporate bonds. These s
ecurities are valued based 
on a review of quoted market prices for assets as well as
 through the various other i
nputs discussed previously. 
 
Covered securities:
 Covered securities are covered by FDIC loss shar
ing agreements and consist of re-remic non-agency 
MBS, municipal securities and non-agency MBS. Covered s
tate and political subdivision sec
urities and certain non-agency 
MBS are valued in a manner similar to the approach descri
bed above for those asset classes. The re-remic non-agency MBS, 
which are categorized as Level 3, were valued based on broker dealer quotes that reflected certain unobservable market 
inputs. Sensitivity to changes 
in the fair value of covered securities is
 significantly offset by changes in BB&T™s 
indemnification asset from the FDIC.  
 
LHFS:
 Certain mortgage loans are originated to be sold to inve
stors, which are carried at fair value. The fair value is 
primarily based on quoted market prices for 
securities backed by similar types of loan
s. The changes in fair value of these 
assets are largely driven by changes in 
interest rates subsequent to loan funding 
and changes in the fa
ir value of servicing 
associated with the mortgage LHFS. 
 
Residential MSRs:
 The fair value of residential MSRs is estimated us
ing an OAS valuation model to project MSR cash flows 
over multiple interest rate scenarios, which 
are then discounted at risk-adjusted r
ates. The OAS model considers portfolio 
characteristics, contractually specified servicing fees, prepaym
ent assumptions, delinquency rates, late charges, other 
ancillary revenue, costs to service and other 
economic factors. Fair value estimates a
nd assumptions are compared to industry 
surveys, recent market activity, actual portfolio experience and, when available, other observable market data.  
 
Derivative assets and liabilities:
 The fair values of derivatives are determined
 based on quoted market prices and internal 
pricing models that are primarily sensitive 
to market observable data. The fair va
lues of interest rate lock commitments, 
which are related to mortgage loan commitments and are cate
gorized as Level 3, are based on quoted market prices adjusted 
for commitments that are not expected to fund and include 
the value attributable to the net servicing fees.  
 
  
134 
 
Private equity and similar investments:
 Private equity and similar investments 
are measured at fair value based on the 
investment™s net asset value. In many cases there are no observable market values for these investments and therefore 
management must estimate the fair value based on a comparison 
of the operating performance of
 the company to multiples in 
the marketplace for similar entities. This analysis requires significant judgment and actual values in a sale could differ 
materially from those estimated.  
 
Short-term borrowings:
 Short-term borrowings represent debt securities sold 
short that are entered in
to as a hedging strategy 
for the purposes of supporti
ng institutional and reta
il client trading activities. 
 
The following tables su
mmarize activity for level 3 assets and liabilities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Private 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Equity and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Covered 
Residential 
 
Net 
Similar 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2013 
Trading 
Securities 
MSRs
 
 
Derivatives
Investments
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
Balance at January 1, 2013
 
$
 1 
$
 994 
$
 627 
 
$ 
 54 
$
 323 
 
Total realized and unrealized gains (losses): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Included in earnings: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest income  
 
 

   
 
 37 
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 
Mortgage banking income 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 229 
 
 
 21 
 
 

   
 
 
 
Other noninterest income  
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 33 
 
 
Included in unrealized net holding gains (losses) in OCI 
 
 

   
 
 (14)
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
Purchases 
 40 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 58 
 
Issuances 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 336 
 
 
 65 
 
 

   
 
Sales 
 (41)
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 (59)
 
Settlements 
 

   
 
 (156)
 
 (145)
 
 
 (151)
 
 (64)
Balance at December 31, 2013 
$
 

   
$
 861 
$
 1,047 
 
$ 
 (11)
$
 291 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change in unrealized gains (losses) included in earnings for 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the period, attributable to a
ssets and liabilities still held 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
at December 31, 2013 
$
 

   
$
 37 
$
 229 
 
$ 
 (11)
$
 22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Private 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Equity and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Covered 
Residential 
 
Net 
Similar 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2012 
 
Trading 
Securities 
MSRs 
 
Derivatives
Investments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
Balance at January 1, 2012
 
$
 1 
$
 984 
$
 563 
 
$ 
 59 
$
 261 
 
Total realized and unrealized gains (losses): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Included in earnings: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest income  
 
 

   
 
 48 
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 

   
 
 
 
Mortgage banking income 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 (32)
 
 
 458 
 
 

   
 
 
 
Other noninterest income  
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 21 
 
 
Included in unrealized net holding gains (losses) in OCI 
 
 

   
 
 88 
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
Purchases  
 
 4 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 101 
 
Issuances 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 270 
 
 
 308 
 
 

   
 
Sales 
 
 (4)
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 (59)
 
Settlements 
 
 

   
 
 (126)
 
 (174)
 
 
 (771)
 
 (1)
Balance at December 31, 2012 
$
 1 
$
 994 
$
 627 
 
$ 
 54 
$
 323 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change in unrealized gains (losses) included in earnings for 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the period, attributable to a
ssets and liabilities still held 
 
 
 
 
 
at December 31, 2012 
$
 

   
$
 48 
$
 (32)
 
$ 
 54 
$
 12 
 
  
135 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Private 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
States & 
 
 
 
 
 
Equity and
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Political 
Other 
Covered 
Residential 
 
Net 
Similar 
 
 
Year Ended December 31, 2011
 
 
Trading 
Subdivisions
Securities
Securities
MSRs 
 
Derivatives
Investments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Balance at January 1, 2011 
 
$
 11 
$
 119 
$
 7
$
 954
$
 830 
 
$ 
 (25)
$
 266 
 
 
 
Total realized and unrealized gains (losses): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Included in earnings: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest income  
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

  
 
 54
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 

   
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage banking income 
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

  
 
 

  
 
 (341)
 
 
 151 
 
 

   
 
 
 
 
 
Other noninterest income  
 
 
 (3)
 
 

   
 
 

  
 
 

  
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 64 
 
 
 
 
Included in OCI 
 
 
 

   
 
 (9)
 
 (1)
 
 24
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 
Purchases 
 
 
 7 
 
 

   
 
 

  
 
 

  
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 61 
 
 
 
Issuances 
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

  
 
 

  
 
 225 
 
 
 110 
 
 

   
 
 
 
Sales 
 
 
 (14)
 
 

   
 
 

  
 
 

  
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 (112)
 
 
 
Settlements 
 
 
 

   
 
 (53)
 
 (1)
 
 (48)
 
 (151)
 
 
 (177)
 
 (15)
 
 
 
Transfers into Level 3 
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

  
 
 

  
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 1 
 
 
 
Transfers out of Level 3 
 
 
 

   
 
 (57)
 
 (5)
 
 

  
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 (4)
 
 
Balance at December 31, 2011 
 
$
 1 
$
 

   
$
 

  
$
 984
$
 563 
 
$ 
 59 
$
 261 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Change in unrealized gains (losses) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
included in earnings for the period, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
attributable to assets and liabilities 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
still held at December 31, 2011 
 
$
 

   
$
 

   
$
 

  
$
 54
$
 (341)
 
$ 
 59 
$
 39 
 
 
BB&T™s policy is to recognize transfers in 
and transfers out of Levels 1, 2 and 3 as of the end of a reporting period. During 
the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, BB&T did not have any material transfer of securities between levels in the 
fair value hierarchy. During the year ended December 31
, 2011, BB&T transferred certain state and political subdivision 
securities out of Level 3 as a result of management™s decision 
to reclassify them from AFS to HTM classification, which is 
not recorded at fair value. Ther
e were no gains or lo
sses recognized as a result of this transfer.  
 
BB&T™s private equity and similar investments are primarily 
in SBIC qualified funds, which focus on equity and 
subordinated debt investments in privately
-held middle market companies. These in
vestments generally are not redeemable 
and distributions are received as the underlying assets of the funds liquidate. The timing of distributions, which are expected
 
to occur on various dates through 2025, is uncertain and depe
ndent on various events such as recapitalizations, refinance 
transactions and ownership changes among others. Excludin
g the investment of future funds, BB&T estimates these 
investments have a weighted average remaining life of ap
proximately three years; howev
er, the timing and amount of 
distributions may vary significantly. As of December 31, 2013, re
strictions on the ability to s
ell the investments include, but
 
are not limited to, consent of a majority member or general 
partner approval for transfer of ownership. BB&T™s investments 
are spread over numerous privately-held mi
ddle market companies, and thus the sensitiv
ity to a change in 
fair value for any 
single investment is limited. The significan
t unobservable inputs for these invest
ments are EBITDA multiples that ranged 
from 2x to 10x, with a weighted average of 7x, at December 31, 2013. 
 
The following table details the fair value and UPB of LHFS that were elected to be carried at fair value: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2013
December 31, 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair
Aggregate
 
 
Fair 
 
Aggregate
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Value
UPB
 
Difference
Value 
 
UPB
 
Difference
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
LHFS reported at fair value 
$
 1,222 
$
 1,223 
$
 (1)
$
 3,761 
$ 
 3,652 
$
 109 
 
 
Excluding government guaranteed, there were no LHFS that were nonaccrual or 90 days or more past due and still accruing 
interest. 
 
  
136 
 
The following table prov
ides information about certain financial assets measur
ed at fair value on a non
recurring basis, which 
are considered to be Level 3 assets (excludes covered): 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As Of / For The Year Ended December 31, 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013 
 
2012  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carrying 
Value 
Valuation 
Adjustments 
 
Carrying 
Value 
 
Valuation 
Adjustments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions) 
 
 
Impaired loans 
$
 50 
$
 (41)
 
$ 
 137 
 
$
 (109)
 
 
Foreclosed real estate 
 
 71 
 
 (6)
 
 
 107 
 
 
 (147)
 
 
Additionally, accounting standards require th
e disclosure of the estimated fair value 
of financial instruments that are not 
recorded at fair value. A financial instrume
nt is defined as cash, evid
ence of an ownership interest 
in an entity or a contract
 
that creates a contractual obligation or right 
to deliver or receive cash or another fi
nancial instrument fro
m a second entity.
 
For the financial instruments not recorded
 at fair value, estimates of fair valu
e are based on relevant market data and 
information about the instrument and are ba
sed on the value of one trading unit with
out regard to any premium or discount 
that may result from concentrations of
 ownership, possible tax ramifications, esti
mated transaction cost
s that may result from 
bulk sales or the relationship between various financial instruments.  
 
No readily available market exists for a si
gnificant portion of BB&T™s financial instru
ments. Fair value estimates for these 
instruments are based on current econo
mic conditions, currency and interest rate 
risk characteristics, loss experience and 
other factors. Many of these estimates involve uncertainties an
d matters of significant judgment and cannot be determined 
with precision. Therefore, the fair value estimates in many ins
tances cannot be substantiated by comparison to independent 
markets and, in many cases, may not be realizable in a current 
sale of the instrument. In add
ition, changes in assumptions 
could significantly affect these fair value estimates. The followi
ng methods and assumptions were
 used in estimating the fair 
value of these financial instruments. 
 
Cash and cash equivalents and restricted cash
: For these short-term instruments, 
the carrying amounts are a reasonable 
estimate of fair values.  
 
HTM securities:
 The fair values of HTM securities are based on a 
market approach using obse
rvable inputs such as 
benchmark yields and securities, TBA prices, reported trades, 
issuer spreads, current bids and offers, monthly payment 
information and collateral performance. 
 
Loans receivable
: The fair values for loans are estimated using discounted cash flow analyses, applying interest rates 
currently being offered for loan
s with similar terms and credit quality, which
 are deemed to be indicative of orderly 
transactions in the current market. For commercial loans and leas
es, discount rates may be adjusted to address additional 
credit risk on lower risk grade instruments. For residential 
mortgage and other consumer loans, internal prepayment risk 
models are used to adjust contractual cash flows. Loans ar
e aggregated into pools of similar terms and credit quality and 
discounted using a LIBOR based rate. The carrying am
ounts of accrued interest approximate fair values. 
 
FDIC loss share receivable/payable
: The fair values of the receivable and payable are estimated using discounted cash flow 
analyses, applying a risk free interest rate that is adjusted 
for the uncertainty in the timing and amount of these cash flows.
 
The expected cash flows to/from the FDIC related to loans were
 estimated using the same as
sumptions that were used in 
determining the accounting values for the related loans. The expected cash flows to/from the FDIC related to securities are 
based upon the fair value of the related se
curities and the payment that would be requ
ired if the securities were sold for that
 
amount. The loss share agreements are not transferrable and, accor
dingly, there is no market for the receivable or payable. 
 
Deposit liabilities
: The fair values for demand deposits, interest-ch
ecking accounts, savings accounts and certain money 
market accounts are, by definition, equal to the amount paya
ble on demand. Fair values for CDs are estimated using a 
discounted cash flow calculation that applies 
current interest rates to aggregate ex
pected maturities. In a
ddition, nonfinancia
l 
instruments such as core deposit intangib
les are not recorded at fair value. BB&T ha
s developed long-term relationships with 
its customers through its deposit base and, in the opinion 
of management, these items add significant value to BB&T. 
 
Short-term borrowings
: The carrying amounts of Federal funds purchased, 
borrowings under repurchase agreements and 
other short-term borrowed funds approximate their fair values. 
 
Long-term debt
: The fair values of long-term debt are estimated based on quoted market prices for the instrument if available, 
or for similar instruments if not available, or by using disco
unted cash flow analyses, based on current incremental borrowing 
rates for similar types of instruments. 
  
137 
 
 
Contractual commitments
: The fair values of commitments are estimated 
using the fees charged 
to enter into similar 
agreements, taking into account the remaining terms of the agreem
ents and the present creditworthiness of the counterparties. 
For fixed-rate loan commitments, fair values also consider th
e difference between current levels of interest rates and the 
committed rates. The fair values of guarantees and letters 
of credit are estimated based on the counterparties™ 
creditworthiness and average defa
ult rates for loan products with similar risk
s. These respective fair value measurements are 
categorized within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. 
 
Financial assets and liabilities not recorded
 at fair value are summarized below: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carrying
Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2013
 
 
Amount
Fair Value 
 
Level 2 
 
Level 3
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Financial assets: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HTM securities 
$
 18,101 
$
 17,530 
 
$ 
 17,491 
 
$
 39 
 
 
 
Loans and leases, net of ALLL excluding covered loans 
 
 112,264 
 
 112,261 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 112,261 
 
 
 
Covered loans, net of ALLL 
 
 1,921 
 
 2,200 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 2,200 
 
 
 
FDIC loss share receivable 
 
 843 
 
 464 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 464 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial liabilities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deposits  
 
 127,475 
 
 127,810 
 
 
 127,810 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 
FDIC loss share payable 
 
 669 
 
 652 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 652 
 
 
 
Long-term debt  
 
 21,493 
 
 22,313 
 
 
 22,313 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Carrying
Total 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2012
 
 
Amount
Fair Value 
 
Level 2 
 
Level 3
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Financial assets: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
HTM securities 
$
 13,594 
$
 13,848 
 
$ 
 13,810 
 
$
 38 
 
 
 
Loans and leases, net of ALLL excluding covered loans 
 
 109,419 
 
 109,621 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 109,621 
 
 
 
Covered loans, net of ALLL 
 
 3,166 
 
 3,661 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 3,661 
 
 
 
FDIC loss share receivable 
 
 1,106 
 
 751 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 751 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial liabilities: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deposits  
 
 133,075 
 
 133,377 
 
 
 133,377 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 
FDIC loss share payable 
 
 627 
 
 602 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 602 
 
 
 
Long-term debt  
 
 19,114 
 
 20,676 
 
 
 20,676 
 
 
 

   
 
 
The following is a summary of selected information pert
aining to off-balance sheet financial instruments:  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2013 
 
 December 31, 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
Notional/
 
 
Notional/
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Contract
 
 
Contract
 
 
 
 
 
 
Amount
Fair Value 
 
Amount
 
Fair Value
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Commitments to extend, orig
inate or purchase credit  
$
 45,333 
$
 86 
 
$ 
 41,410 
$
 74 
 
 
Residential mortgage loans sold with recourse  
 
 783 
 
 13 
 
 
 1,019 
 
 12 
 
 
Other loans sold with recourse  
 
 4,594 
 
 9 
 
 
 4,970 
 
 13 
 
 
Letters of credit and financial guarantees written  
 
 4,355 
 
 39 
 
 
 5,164 
 
 30 
 
 
  
138 
 
NOTE 18. Derivative Financial Instruments 
 
Derivative Classifications and Hedging Relationships 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2013 
 
December 31, 2012 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hedged Item or 
Notional 
Fair Value 
 
Notional 
 
Fair Value 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Transaction 
Amount 
Gain 
Loss 
 
Amount 
 
Gain 
Loss 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions) 
Cash flow hedges:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate contracts: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pay fixed swaps 
3 mo. LIBOR funding
$
 4,300 
$
 

   
$
 (203)
$
 6,035 
$
 

   
$
 (298)
 
 
 
 
 
 
Fair value hedges: 
 
 
Interest rate contracts: 
 
 
 
Receive fixed swaps and option trades 
Long-term debt  
 6,822 
 102 
 (3)
 800 
 182 
 

   
 
 
Pay fixed swaps 
Commercial loans 
 178 
 

   
 (3)
 187 
 

   
 (7)
 
 
Pay fixed swaps 
Municipal securities 
 345 
 

   
 (83)
 345 
 

   
 (153)
 
 
 
 
Total 
 
 7,345 
 102 
 (89)
 1,332 
 182 
 (160)
N
ot designated as hedges: 
 
 
Client-related and other risk management:
 
 
 
 
Interest rate contracts: 
 
 
 
 
Receive fixed swaps 
 
 8,619 
 370 
 (37)
 9,352 
 687 
 

   
 
 
 
Pay fixed swaps 
 
 8,401 
 31 
 (396)
 9,464 
 

   
 (717)
 
 
 
Other  
 
 2,010 
 8 
 (10)
 3,400 
 24 
 (28)
 
 
Foreign exchange contracts 
 
 384 
 2 
 (3)
 534 
 4 
 (3)
 
 
 
 
Total 
 
 19,414 
 411 
 (446)
 22,750 
 715 
 (748)
 
Mortgage banking:
 
 
 
 
Interest rate contracts: 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate lock commitments 
 
 1,869 
 3 
 (14)
 6,064 
 55 
 (1)
 
 
 
When issued securities, forward rate agreements and forward 
 
 
 
 
commitments 
 3,100 
 34 
 (7)
 8,886 
 10 
 (19)
 
 
 
Other  
 
 531 
 8 
 (7)
 215 
 6 
 (2)
 
 
 
 
Total 
 
 5,500 
 45 
 (28)
 15,165 
 71 
 (22)
 
MSRs:
 
 
 
 
Interest rate contracts: 
 
 
 
 
Receive fixed swaps 
 
 6,139 
 36 
 (141)
 5,178 
 110 
 (27)
 
 
 
Pay fixed swaps 
 
 5,449 
 89 
 (29)
 5,389 
 7 
 (94)
 
 
 
Option trades 
 
 9,415 
 181 
 (31)
 14,510 
 363 
 (88)
 
 
 
Futures contracts 
 
 

   
 

   
 

   
 30 
 

   
 

   
 
 
 
When issued securities, forward rate agreements and forward 
 
 
 
 
commitments 
 1,756 
 

   
 (3)
 2,406 
 2 
 

   
 
 
 
 
Total 
 
 22,759 
 306 
 (204)
 27,513 
 482 
 (209)
 
 
 
 
 
Total nonhedging derivatives 
 47,673 
 762 
 (678)
 65,428 
 1,268 
 (979)
Total derivatives 
$
 59,318 
 864 
 (970)
$
 72,795 
 1,450 
 (1,437)
Gross amounts not offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheets: 
 
Amounts subject to master netting arrangements not offset due to policy election 
 (514)
 514 
 (797)
 797 
 
Cash collateral (received) posted 
 (44)
 386 
 (41)
 607 
 
 
N
et amount 
 
$
 306 
$
 (70)
$
 612 
$
 (33)
  
  
139 
 
Assets and liabilities related to derivatives are presented on a 
gross basis in the Consolidated Ba
lance Sheets. Cash collatera
l 
posted for derivative instruments in
 a loss position is reported as
 Restricted cash. Derivatives with dealer counterparties are
 
governed by the terms of ISDA master netting agreements
 and Credit Support Annexes.
 The ISDA Agreement allows 
counterparties to offset trades in a gain 
against trades in a loss to determine ne
t exposure and allows 
for the right of setoff
 in 
the event of either a default 
or an additional termination even
t. Credit Support Annexes govern the terms of daily collateral 
posting practices. Collateral practices mitigate th
e potential loss impact to affected pa
rties by requiring liquid collateral t
o be 
posted on a scheduled basis to secure the aggregate net unsecure
d exposure. In addition to collateral, the right of setoff allo
ws 
counterparties to offset derivative values transacted with a defaulting party with certain other contractual receivables from o
r 
obligations due to the defaulting party in determining the net termination amount. No portion of the change in fair value of 
the derivatives has been excluded from e
ffectiveness testing. The ineffective portion 
was immaterial for all periods presented.
 
 
The Effect of Derivative Instruments on the Consolidated Statements of Income
 
Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Effective Portion
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pre-tax Gain (Loss)
Location of 
 
Pre-tax Gain (Loss) Reclassified 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recognized in OCI
Amounts Reclassified  
 
from AOCI into Income 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2013
 
 
2012  
2011  
from AOCI into Income 
 
2013 
 
2012  
2011  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
Cash Flow Hedges:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate contracts 
$
 204 
$
 (84)
$
 (225)
Total interest income 
 
$
 

   
$
 11 
$
 26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total interest expense 
 
 
 (77)
 
 (72)
 (72)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
 (77)
$
 (61)
$
 (46)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pre-tax Gain (Loss) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Location of Amounts 
 
Recognized in Income 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Recognized in Income 
 
2013 
 
2012  
2011  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
Fair Value Hedges:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate contracts 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total interest income 
 
$
 (21)
 
$
 (21)
$
 (21)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Total interest expense 
 
 
 141 
 
 
 288 
 
 314 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
 120 
 
$
 267 
$
 293 
N
ot Designated as Hedges: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Client-related and other risk management: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate contracts 
 
 
 
 
 
Other income 
 
$
 26 
 
$
 35 
$
 10 
 
 
 
Foreign exchange contracts 
Other income 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 9 
 
 6 
 
Mortgage Banking: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate contracts 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage banking income 
 
 
 (27)
 
 
 59 
 
 (70)
 
MSRs: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Interest rate contracts 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage banking income 
 
 
 (197)
 
 
 128 
 
 394 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
$
 (187)
 
$
 231 
$
 340 
 
  
140 
 
The following table 
provides a summary of derivative strategi
es and the related acc
ounting treatment: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash Flow Hedges
Fair Value Hedges
 
Derivatives Not Designated as Hedges 
Risk exposure
 
 
Variability in cash flows of 
interest payments on 
floating rate business loans, 
overnight funding, FHLB 
advances, medium-term 
bank notes and long-term 
debt. 
Losses in value on fixed 
rate long-term debt, CDs, 
FHLB advances, loans and 
state and political 
subdivision securities due to 
changes in interest rates. 
Risk associated with an asset or 
liability, including mortgage 
banking operations and MSRs, 
or for client needs. Includes 
exposure to changes in market 
rates and conditions subsequent 
to the interest rate lock and 
funding date for mortgage loans 
originated for sale. 
Risk management objective 
 
Hedge the variability in the 
interest payments and 
receipts on future cash 
flows for forecasted 
transactions related to the 
first unhedged payments 
and receipts of variable 
interest. 
Convert the fixed rate paid 
or received to a floating 
rate, primarily through the 
use of swaps. 
For interest rate lock 
commitment derivatives and 
LHFS, use mortgage-based 
derivatives such as forward 
commitments and options to 
mitigate market risk. For MSRs, 
mitigate the income statement 
effect of changes in the fair 
value of the MSRs. 
Treatment for portion that is 
highly effective 
 
Recognized in OCI until the 
related cash flows from the 
hedged item are recognized 
in earnings. 
Recognized in current 
period income along with 
the corresponding changes 
in the fair value of the 
designated hedged item 
attributable to the risk being 
hedged. 
Entire change in fair value 
recognized in current period 
income. 
Treatment for portion that is 
ineffective 
 
Recognized in current 
period income. 
Recognized in current 
period income. 
N
ot applicable 
Treatment if hedge ceases to be 
highly effective or is terminated 
 
Hedge is dedesignated. 
Effective changes in value 
that are recorded in OCI 
before dedesignation are 
amortized to yield over the 
period the forecasted 
hedged transactions impact 
earnings. 
If hedged item remains 
outstanding, termination 
proceeds are included in 
cash flows from financing 
activities and effective 
changes in value are 
reflected as part of the 
carrying value of the 
financial instrument and 
amortized to earnings over 
its estimated remaining life.
N
ot applicable 
Treatment if transaction is no 
longer probable of occurring 
during forecast period or within 
a short period thereafter 
 
Hedge accounting is ceased 
and any gain or loss in OCI 
is reported in earnings 
immediately. 
N
ot applicable 
N
ot applicable 
 
  
141 
 
The following table presents informa
tion about BB&T's cash flow hedges: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2013 
 
 
 2012  
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Cash flow hedges: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et unrecognized afte
r
-tax gain (loss), including both active and terminated  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
hedges, on derivatives classified as cash flow hedges recorded in OCI 
$ 
 2 
 
 
$ 
 (173)
 
 
Estimated after-tax gain (loss) to be r
eclassified from OCI into earnings during the 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
next 12 months, including active hedges and hedges that were terminated 
early for which the forecasted transactions are still probable 
 
 (50)
 
 
 
 (37)
 
 
 
Maximum length of time over which the en
tity has hedged a portion of its  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
variability in future cash flows for forecasted transactions excluding those 
transactions relating to the payment of
 variable interest on
 existing financial 
instruments. 
 
 7 
yrs 
 
 
 

  
yrs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The following table prese
nts information about BB&T
's terminated hedge activity: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Year Ended December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2013 
 
 
 2012  
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions)
 
 
 
Cash flow hedges: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pre-tax deferred gain from terminated cash flow hedges recorded in OCI 
$ 
 198 
 
 
$ 
 

  
 
 
Fair value hedges: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pre-tax deferred gain from terminated fair value hedges related to long-term debt 
 
 

   
 
 
 
 85
 
 
 
Pre-tax reduction of interest expense recognized from previously  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
unwound fair value debt hedges 
 
 89 
 
 
 
 256
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Derivatives Credit Risk Œ Dealer Counterparties 
 
Credit risk related to derivatives arises when amounts receivable from a counterparty exceed those payable to the same 
counterparty. The risk of loss is addressed by subjecting dealer c
ounterparties to credit reviews and approvals similar to thos
e 
used in making loans or other extensions of credit and by 
requiring collateral. Dealer counterparties operate under agreements 
to provide cash and/or liquid collateral when uns
ecured loss positions ex
ceed negotiated limits.  
 
Derivative contracts with dealer counterparties settle on a monthly, quarterly or semiannual basis, with daily movement of 
collateral between counterparties requir
ed within established netting agreemen
ts. BB&T only transacts with dealer 
counterparties that are national market 
makers with strong credit ratings.  
 
Derivatives Credit Risk Œ Ce
ntral Clearing Parties 
 
Certain derivatives are cleared through 
central clearing parties that require initial ma
rgin collateral, as well as additional 
collateral for trades in a net loss position.
 Initial margin collateral requirements are 
established by central clearing partie
s on 
varying bases, with such amounts generally designed to offset the risk of non-payment. Initial margin is generally calculated 
by applying the maximum loss ex
perienced in value over a specified time horizo
n to the portfolio of existing trades. The 
central clearing party used for TBA transactions does not post variation margin to the bank. 
 
  
142 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31,
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2013  
 
 2012  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions) 
 
 
Cash collateral received from dealer counterparties 
 
$ 
 44 
 
$
 44 
 
 
Derivatives in a net gain position secured by that collateral 
 
 
 46 
 
 
 42 
 
 
Unsecured positions in a net gain with d
ealer counterparties after collateral postings 
 
 3 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash collateral posted to 
dealer counterparties 
 
 
 356 
 
 
 603 
 
 
Derivatives in a net loss position secured by that collateral 
 
 
 357 
 
 
 610 
 
 
Additional collateral that would have been posted had BB&T's credit ratings 
 
 
 
 
 
 
dropped below investment grade 
 
 
 4 
 
 
 10 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cash collateral, including 
initial margin, posted to 
central clearing parties 
 
 
 43 
 
 
 111 
 
Derivatives in a net loss position secured by that collateral 
 
 
 43 
 
 
 7 
 
Securities pledged to central clearing parties 
 
 
 82 
 
 
 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NOTE 19. Computation of EPS 
 
Basic and diluted EPS calculations are 
presented in the 
following table:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Years Ended December 31,
 
 
 
2013
 
2012  
 
2011  
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions, except per share data,
 
 
 
 
shares in thousands)
 
 
 
N
et income available to common shareholders 
$
 1,562 
$ 
 1,916 
 
$
 1,289 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Weighted average number of common shares 
 
 703,042 
 
 698,739 
 
 
 696,532 
 
 
Effect of dilutive outstandi
ng equity-based awards 
 
 11,321 
 
 10,138 
 
 
 8,636 
 
 
Weighted average number of diluted common shares 
 
 714,363 
 
 708,877 
 
 
 705,168 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Basic EPS 
$
 2.22 
$ 
 2.74 
 
$
 1.85 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Diluted EPS 
$
 2.19 
$ 
 2.70 
 
$
 1.83 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anti-dilutive awards 
 
 28,456 
 
 36,589 
 
 
 40,895 
 
  
143 
 
NOTE 20. Operating Segments 
 
 
BB&T's operations are divided into six reportable business
 segments that have been identified based on BB&T™s 
organizational structure. The segments require unique technology
 and marketing strategies and offer different products and 
services through a number of distinct branded LOBs. While
 BB&T is managed as an integrated organization, individual 
executive managers are held accountable for the operations of these business segments. 
 
BB&T emphasizes revenue growth by focusing on client service,
 sales effectiveness and relationship management along with 
an organizational focus on referring clients between LOBs. 
The business objective is to pr
ovide BB&T™s entire suite of 
products to our clients with the end goal of providing our clients the best financial experience in the marketplace. The 
segment results contained herein are presented based on in
ternal management accounting policies that were designed to 
support these strategic objectiv
es. Unlike financial accounting, ther
e is no comprehensive author
itative body of guidance for 
management accounting equivalent to GAAP. The performance of the segments is not comparable with BB&T™s 
consolidated results or w
ith similar information presented by any other fi
nancial institution. Additi
onally, because of the 
interrelationships of the various segments, the information prese
nted is not indicative of how 
the segments would perform if 
they operated as 
independent entities. 
 
The management accounting process uses various estimates and 
allocation methodologies to me
asure the performance of the 
operating segments. To deter
mine financial performance for each segment,
 BB&T allocates capital, funding charges and 
credits, an allocated provision for loan and lease losses, certain noninterest expenses and income tax provisions to each 
segment, as applicable. To promote revenue growth, certain revenues are reflected in noninterest income in the individual 
segment results and also allocated to Comm
unity Banking and Financial Services. These allocated revenues are reflected in 
intersegment net referral fees and eliminated in Other, 
Treasury and Corporate. Add
itionally certain client groups of 
Community Banking have also been identified as clients of ot
her LOBs within the business segments. These client groups 
include the commercial clients being serviced
 within the Commercial Finance LOB th
at is part of the Specialized Lending 
segment and the identified wealth
 and private banking clients of the Wealth Divisi
on within the Financial Services segment. 
The net interest income and associated net 
FTP associated with these customers™ lo
ans and deposits is
 accounted for in 
Community Banking in the respective line 
categories of net interest income (expense) 
and net intersegment interest income 
(expense). For the Commercial Finance LOB and the Wealth Divi
sion, NIM and net intersegment interest income have been 
combined in the net intersegment interest income (expense) lin
e with an appropriate offsetting amount to the Other, Treasury 
and Corporate line item to ensure 
consolidated totals reflect th
e Company™s total NIM for lo
ans and deposits. Allocation 
methodologies are subject to periodic adjustment as the inte
rnal management accounting system is revised and business or 
product lines within the segments change. Also, because the development and application of these methodologies is a 
dynamic process, the financial results presented may be periodically revised. 
 
BB&T utilizes an FTP system to eliminate the e
ffect of interest rate risk from the segm
ents™ net interest income because such 
risk is centrally managed within the Treas
ury function. The FTP system credits or
 charges the segmen
ts with the economic 
value or cost of the fund
s the segments create or use. The net FTP credit or 
charge, which includes intercompany interest 
income and expense, is reflected as net interseg
ment income (expense) in the accompanying tables. 
 
The allocated provision for loan and lease losses is also allo
cated to the relevant segmen
ts based on management™s 
assessment of the segments™ credit risks. The allocated provision is 
designed to achieve a high 
degree of correlation between 
the loan loss experience and the GAAP basis provision at the 
segment level, while at the same time providing management 
with a measure of operating performance that
 gives appropriate consideration to the risks inherent in each of the Company™s 
operating segments. Any over or under a
llocated provision for loan and lease losses is reflected in Other, Treasury and 
Corporate to arrive at consolidated results. 
 
BB&T allocates expenses to the reportable segments based on
 various methodologies, including
 volume and amount of loans 
and deposits and the number of
 full-time equivalent employees. Allocation syst
ems are refined from time to time along with 
further identification of certain cost po
ols. These cost pools and 
refinements are implemented to provide for improved 
managerial reporting of cost to the appr
opriate business segments. A portion of co
rporate overhead expense is not allocated, 
but is retained in corporate accounts and reflected as Other, Treasury and Corporate in the accompanying tables. The majority 
of depreciation expense is recorded in support units and allocated to the segments as part of allocated corporate expense. 
Income taxes are allocated to th
e various segments based on taxable income 
and statutory rates app
licable to the segment. 
 
  
144 
 
Community Banking 
 
 
Community Banking serves individual and 
business clients by offering a variety 
of loan and deposit products and other 
financial services. Community Banking is 
primarily responsible for 
serving client relationships and, therefore, is credited 
with certain revenue from the Residential Mortgage 
Banking, Financial Services, Insurance Services, Specialized Lending, 
and other segments, which is reflected in net referral fees. 
 
Residential Mortgage Banking  
 
Residential Mortgage Banking retains and services mortgage
 loans originated by Community Banking as well as those 
purchased from various correspondent originators. Mortgage lo
an products include fixed and adjustable rate government and 
conventional loans for the purpo
se of constructing, purchasing or refinanc
ing residential properties. Substantially all of the 
properties are owner occupied. BB&T generally retains the serv
icing rights to loans sold. 
Residential Mortgage Banking 
earns interest on loans held in the wa
rehouse and portfolio, earns f
ee income from the origination 
and servicing of mortgage 
loans and recognizes gains or losses 
from the sale of mortgage loans. 
 
Dealer Financial Services  
 
Dealer Financial Services originates loans to consumers on a prime 
and nonprime basis for the purchase of automobiles. Such 
loans are originated on an indirect basis through approved fr
anchised and independent autom
obile dealers throughout the 
BB&T market area and nationally through Regional Acceptance 
Corporation. This segment als
o originates loans for the 
purchase of boats and recreational vehi
cles originated through dealers in BB&T™s 
market area. In addition, financing and 
servicing to dealers for their inventories 
is provided through a joint relationshi
p between Dealer Financial Services and 
Community Banking. 
 
Specialized Lending  
 
BB&T's Specialized Lending consists of LOBs and subsidiaries that provide specialty finance products to consumers and 
businesses. The LOBs include Commercial Finance and Govern
mental Finance. Commercial Finance structures and manages 
asset-based working capital financing, supply chain financing, export-import finance, accounts receivable management and 
credit enhancement. Commercial Finance also contains the 
Mortgage Warehouse Lending business, which provides short-
term lending solutions to finance first-lien residential mortga
ge loans held for sale by independent mortgage companies. 
Governmental Finance provides tax-exempt fi
nancing to meet the cap
ital project needs of local governments. Operating 
subsidiaries include BB&T Equipment Finance, which provides
 equipment leasing largely w
ithin BB&T™s banking footprint; 
Sheffield Financial, a dealer-based fina
ncer of equipment for both small businesses and consumers; Prime Rate Premium 
Finance Corporation, which includes AFCO and CAFO, insuran
ce premium finance LOBs that provide funding to businesses 
in the United States and Canada and to consumers in certain
 markets within BB&T™s banking footprint; and Grandbridge, a 
full-service commercial mortgage banking lender providing loans 
on a national basis. Lendmark Financial Services, a direct 
consumer finance lending company, was sold
 during the fourth quarter 
of 2013, resulting in the sa
le of $500 million of loans 
and the transfer of $230 m
illion of loans to Residential Mortgage Banking. 
Branch Bank clients as well as nonbank clients 
within and outside BB&T™s primary geog
raphic market area are served by these LOBs. The Community Banking segment 
receives credit for referrals to these LOBs with the corresponding charge retained as part of Other, Treasury and Corporate in 
the accompanying tables. 
 
Insurance Services  
 
BB&T's insurance agency / brokerage network is the sixth large
st in the world. Insurance Se
rvices provides property and 
casualty, employee benefits and life insurance to businesses and 
individuals. It also provides small business and corporate 
services, such as workers compensation an
d professional liability, as well as surety coverage and title insurance. In addition,
 
Insurance Services underwrites a limited amount of propert
y and casualty coverage. Community Banking and Financial 
Services receive credit for insurance commissions on referred accounts, with the corresponding charge retained in the 
corporate office, which is reflected as part of Other, 
Treasury and Corporate in 
the accompanying tables. 
 
Financial Services  
 
Financial Services provides personal trust ad
ministration, estate planning, investment
 counseling, wealth management, asset 
management, corporate retirement services, corporate banking and co
rporate trust services. Financial Services also offers 
clients investment alternatives, 
including discount brokerage 
services, equities, fixed-rate an
d variable-rate annuities, mutua
l 
funds and governmental an
d municipal bonds through BB
&T Investment Services, Inc., a 
subsidiary of Branch Bank. 
 
  
145 
 
Financial Services includes BB&T Securities, a full-service brokerag
e and investment banking firm that provides services in 
retail brokerage, equity and debt underwritin
g, investment advice, corporate financ
e and equity research and facilitates the 
origination, trading and distribution of fixed-income securities 
and equity products in both the public and private capital 
markets. BB&T Securities also has a public finance department th
at provides investment banking services, financial advisory 
services and municipal bond financing to a variet
y of regional taxable and tax-exempt issuers. 
 
Financial Services includes a group of BB&T-sponsored private equity and mezzanine investment funds that invests in 
privately owned middle-market operating companies to facilita
te growth or ownership tran
sition while leveraging the 
Community Banking network for referrals and other bank service
s. Financial Services also includes the Corporate Banking 
Division that originates and services large corporate relations
hips, syndicated lending relationships and client derivatives. 
Community Banking receives an interoffice credit for referral fees, with the corresponding charge reflected as part of Other, 
Treasury and Corporate in the accompanying tables. Also captured within the net intersegment interest income for Financial 
Services is the NIM for the loans and deposits assigned to
 the Wealth Management Division that are housed in the 
Community Bank. 
 
Other, Treasury and Corporate  
 
Other, Treasury and Corporate is the combination of the Other 
segment that represents operatin
g entities that do not meet the 
quantitative or qualitative thresholds for disclosure; BB&T™s Treasur
y function, which is responsible for the management of 
the securities portfolios, ove
rall balance sheet funding and liquidity, and 
overall management of interest rate risk; the 
corporate support functions that have not been allocated to
 the business segments; merger-related charges or credits that are 
incurred as part of the acquisition and c
onversion of acquired entities; nonrecurring ch
arges that are considered to be unusual
 
in nature or infrequent and not reflectiv
e of the normal operations of the segments
; and intercompany eliminations including 
intersegment net referral fees and net 
intersegment interest income (expense). 
 
The substantial majority of the loan portfolio acquired in the Co
lonial acquisition is covered by loss sharing agreements with 
the FDIC and is managed outside of the Community Banking segm
ent. The assets and related in
terest income from this loan 
portfolio have an expected finite business life and are therefore included in the Other, Treasury and Corporate segment. 
Results for BankAtlantic were included in the Other, Treasury and Corporate segment until the system conversion in October 
2012. Historically, performance results of bank acquisitions prior to system conversion are reported in this segment and on a 
post-conversion date are reported in
 the Community Banking segment. 
 
Segment Asset Transfer 
 
During January 2014, approximately $8.3 billion of home equity loans and lines were transferred from Community Banking 
to Residential Mortgage Bankin
g based on a change in how these loans w
ill be managed as a result of new qualified 
mortgage regulations. The following tabl
es disclose selected financial informa
tion with respect to BB&T's reportable 
business segments before the loan transfer and on 
a pro-forma basis subsequent to the loan transfer. 
  
 
 
The following table presents segm
ent information prior to the realignment of certain operating segments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BB&T Corporation 
 
Reportable Segments  - Before Realignment 
Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Community Banking 
Residential Mortgage Banking 
 
Dealer Financial Services 
Specialized Lending 
 
 
 
 
2013  
2012  
2011  
2013  
2012  
2011  
 
2013  
2012  
2011  
2013  
2012  
2011  
 
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions) 
N
et interest income (expense) 
 
$ 
 2,129 
$ 
 2,084 
$ 
 1,937 
$ 
 1,168 
$ 
 1,149 
$ 
 1,024 
 
$ 
 834 
$ 
 844 
$ 
 852 
$ 
 678 
$ 
 701 
$ 
 636 
N
et intersegment interest income (expense)  
 
 1,085 
 
 1,293 
 
 1,579 
 
 (747)
 
 (772)
 
 (734)
 
 
 (159)
 
 (196)
 
 (270)
 
 (126)
 
 (139)
 
 (171)
Segment net interest income 
 
 3,214 
 
 3,377 
 
 3,516 
 
 421 
 
 377 
 
 290 
 
 
 675 
 
 648 
 
 582 
 
 552 
 
 562 
 
 465 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allocated provision for loan and lease losses  
 
 246 
 
 665 
 
 589 
 
 34 
 
 95 
 
 320 
 
 
 214 
 
 164 
 
 125 
 
 85 
 
 135 
 
 72 
N
oninterest income  
 
 1,202 
 
 1,136 
 
 1,031 
 
 484 
 
 754 
 
 351 
 
 
 4 
 
 7 
 
 7 
 
 231 
 
 229 
 
 211 
Intersegment net referral fees (expense)  
 
 160 
 
 178 
 
 121 
 
 (1)
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
N
oninterest expense  
 
 1,701 
 
 1,827 
 
 2,356 
 
 344 
 
 389 
 
 297 
 
 
 108 
 
 101 
 
 90 
 
 255 
 
 259 
 
 233 
Amortization of intangibles 
 
 36 
 
 37 
 
 47 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 1 
 
 1 
 
 5 
 
 5 
 
 6 
Allocated corporate expenses  
 
 1,040 
 
 1,026 
 
 901 
 
 68 
 
 55 
 
 48 
 
 
 29 
 
 36 
 
 37 
 
 66 
 
 79 
 
 72 
Income (loss) before income taxes  
 
 1,553 
 
 1,136 
 
 775 
 
 458 
 
 592 
 
 (24)
 
 
 328 
 
 353 
 
 336 
 
 372 
 
 313 
 
 293 
Provision (benefit) for income taxes 
 
 571 
 
 414 
 
 278 
 
 174 
 
 225 
 
 (9)
 
 
 125 
 
 135 
 
 127 
 
 97 
 
 69 
 
 58 
Segment net income (loss)  
$ 
 982 
$ 
 722 
$ 
 497 
$ 
 284 
$ 
 367 
$ 
 (15)
 
$ 
 203 
$ 
 218 
$ 
 209 
$ 
 275 
$ 
 244 
$ 
 235 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Identifiable segment assets (period end) 
$ 
 63,145 
$ 
 62,821 
$ 
 59,167 
$ 
 27,664 
$ 
 29,503 
$ 
 25,614 
 
$ 
 11,526 
$ 
 10,264 
$ 
 9,874 
$ 
 17,629 
$ 
 18,907 
$ 
 16,773 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insurance Services 
Financial Services 
 
Other, Treasury and Corporate (1) 
Total BB&T Corporation 
 
 
 
 
2013  
2012  
2011  
2013  
2012  
2011  
 
2013  
2012  
2011  
2013  
2012  
2011  
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions) 
N
et interest income (expense) 
 
$ 
 3 
$ 
 3 
$ 
 2 
$ 
 150 
$ 
 123 
$ 
 108 
 
$ 
 654 
$ 
 953 
$ 
 948 
$ 
 5,616 
$ 
 5,857 
$ 
 5,507 
N
et intersegment interest income (expense)  
 
 6 
 
 4 
 
 5 
 
 297 
 
 326 
 
 250 
 
 
 (356)
 
 (516)
 
 (659)
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
Segment net interest income 
 
 9 
 
 7 
 
 7 
 
 447 
 
 449 
 
 358 
 
 
 298 
 
 437 
 
 289 
 
 5,616 
 
 5,857 
 
 5,507 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allocated provision for loan and lease losses  
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 19 
 
 13 
 
 (1)
 
 
 (6)
 
 (15)
 
 85 
 
 592 
 
 1,057 
 
 1,190 
N
oninterest income  
 
 1,535 
 
 1,365 
 
 1,041 
 
 743 
 
 719 
 
 683 
 
 
 (262)
 
 (390)
 
 (211)
 
 3,937 
 
 3,820 
 
 3,113 
Intersegment net referral fees (expense)  
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 36 
 
 39 
 
 30 
 
 
 (195)
 
 (217)
 
 (151)
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
N
oninterest expense  
 
 1,135 
 
 1,016 
 
 786 
 
 617 
 
 643 
 
 575 
 
 
 1,571 
 
 1,483 
 
 1,366 
 
 5,731 
 
 5,718 
 
 5,703 
Amortization of intangibles 
 
 61 
 
 61 
 
 42 
 
 3 
 
 3 
 
 3 
 
 
 1 
 
 3 
 
 

   
 
 106 
 
 110 
 
 99 
Allocated corporate expenses  
 
 96 
 
 82 
 
 72 
 
 99 
 
 93 
 
 74 
 
 
 (1,398)
 
 (1,371)
 
 (1,204)
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
Income (loss) before income taxes  
 
 252 
 
 213 
 
 148 
 
 488 
 
 455 
 
 420 
 
 
 (327)
 
 (270)
 
 (320)
 
 3,124 
 
 2,792 
 
 1,628 
Provision (benefit) for income taxes 
 
 85 
 
 70 
 
 46 
 
 183 
 
 171 
 
 156 
 
 
 160 
 
 (320)
 
 (360)
 
 1,395 
 
 764 
 
 296 
Segment net income (loss)  
$ 
 167 
$ 
 143 
$ 
 102 
$ 
 305 
$ 
 284 
$ 
 264 
 
$ 
 (487)
$ 
 50 
$ 
 40 
$ 
 1,729 
$ 
 2,028 
$ 
 1,332 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Identifiable segment assets (period end) 
$ 
 2,990 
$ 
 3,297 
$ 
 2,350 
$ 
 10,434 
$ 
 9,283 
$ 
 7,497 
 
$ 
 49,622 
$ 
 50,424 
$ 
 53,736 
$ 
 183,010 
$ 
 184,499 
$ 
 175,011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) 
Includes financial data from subsidiaries below the quantitative and qualitative thresholds requiring disclosure. 
 
146 
  
 
The following table presents segm
ent information after the realignmen
t of certain operating segments. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
BB&T Corporation 
 
Reportable Segments - After Realignment 
Years Ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Community Banking 
Residential Mortgage Banking 
 
Dealer Financial Services
Specialized Lending 
 
 
 
 
2013  
2012  
2011  
2013  
2012  
2011  
 
2013 
2012  
2011  
2013  
2012  
2011  
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
N
et interest income (expense) 
 
$ 
 1,712 
$ 
 1,669 
$ 
 1,555 
$ 
 1,585 
$ 
 1,564 
$ 
 1,406 
 
$ 
 834 
$ 
 844 
$ 
 852 
$ 
 678 
$ 
 701 
$ 
 636 
N
et intersegment interest income (expense)  
 
 1,341 
 
 1,565 
 
 1,844 
 
 (1,003)
 
 (1,044)
 
 (999)
 
 
 (159)
 
 (196)
 
 (270)
 
 (126)
 
 (139)
 
 (171)
Segment net interest income 
 
 3,053 
 
 3,234 
 
 3,399 
 
 582 
 
 520 
 
 407 
 
 
 675 
 
 648 
 
 582 
 
 552 
 
 562 
 
 465 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allocated provision for loan and lease losses  
 
 276 
 
 586 
 
 529 
 
 4 
 
 174 
 
 380 
 
 
 214 
 
 164 
 
 125 
 
 85 
 
 135 
 
 72 
N
oninterest income  
 
 1,202 
 
 1,135 
 
 1,031 
 
 484 
 
 755 
 
 351 
 
 
 4 
 
 7 
 
 7 
 
 231 
 
 229 
 
 211 
Intersegment net referral fees (expense)  
 
 173 
 
 190 
 
 131 
 
 (1)
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
N
oninterest expense  
 
 1,683 
 
 1,800 
 
 2,334 
 
 361 
 
 416 
 
 320 
 
 
 108 
 
 101 
 
 90 
 
 255 
 
 259 
 
 233 
Amortization of intangibles 
 
 36 
 
 37 
 
 47 
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 
 

   
 
 1 
 
 1 
 
 5 
 
 5 
 
 6 
Allocated corporate expenses  
 
 1,035 
 
 1,022 
 
 897 
 
 73 
 
 59 
 
 52 
 
 
 29 
 
 36 
 
 37 
 
 66 
 
 79 
 
 72 
Income (loss) before income taxes  
 
 1,398 
 
 1,114 
 
 754 
 
 627 
 
 626 
 
 6 
 
 
 328 
 
 353 
 
 336 
 
 372 
 
 313 
 
 293 
Provision (benefit) for income taxes 
 
 513 
 
 406 
 
 270 
 
 237 
 
 238 
 
 2 
 
 
 125 
 
 135 
 
 127 
 
 97 
 
 69 
 
 58 
Segment net income (loss)  
$ 
 885 
 
 708 
 
 484 
 
 390 
 
 388 
 
 4 
 
 
 203 
 
 218 
 
 209 
 
 275 
 
 244 
 
 235 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Identifiable segment assets (period end) 
$ 
 54,602 
$ 
 54,731 
 
 52,368 
 
 36,207 
 
 37,593 
 
 32,413 
 
 
 11,526 
 
 10,264 
 
 9,874 
 
 17,629 
 
 18,907 
 
 16,773 
 
 
 
 
Insurance Services 
Financial Services 
 
Other, Treasury and Corporate (1) 
Total BB&T Corporation 
 
 
 
 
2013  
2012  
2011  
2013  
2012  
2011  
 
2013  
2012  
2011  
2013  
2012  
2011  
 
 
 
 
(Dollars in millions) 
N
et interest income (expense) 
 
$ 
 3 
$ 
 3 
$ 
 2 
$ 
 129 
$ 
 106 
$ 
 98 
 
$ 
 675 
$ 
 970 
$ 
 958 
$ 
 5,616 
$ 
 5,857 
$ 
 5,507 
N
et intersegment interest income (expense)  
 
 6 
 
 4 
 
 5 
 
 310 
 
 337 
 
 257 
 
 
 (369)
 
 (527)
 
 (666)
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
Segment net interest income 
 
 9 
 
 7 
 
 7 
 
 439 
 
 443 
 
 355 
 
 
 306 
 
 443 
 
 292 
 
 5,616 
 
 5,857 
 
 5,507 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Allocated provision for loan and lease losses  
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 17 
 
 11 
 
 (2)
 
 
 (4)
 
 (13)
 
 86 
 
 592 
 
 1,057 
 
 1,190 
N
oninterest income  
 
 1,535 
 
 1,365 
 
 1,041 
 
 743 
 
 719 
 
 683 
 
 
 (262)
 
 (390)
 
 (211)
 
 3,937 
 
 3,820 
 
 3,113 
Intersegment net referral fees (expense)  
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 36 
 
 39 
 
 30 
 
 
 (208)
 
 (229)
 
 (161)
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
N
oninterest expense  
 
 1,135 
 
 1,016 
 
 786 
 
 617 
 
 643 
 
 575 
 
 
 1,572 
 
 1,483 
 
 1,365 
 
 5,731 
 
 5,718 
 
 5,703 
Amortization of intangibles 
 
 61 
 
 61 
 
 42 
 
 3 
 
 3 
 
 3 
 
 
 1 
 
 3 
 
 

   
 
 106 
 
 110 
 
 99 
Allocated corporate expenses  
 
 96 
 
 82 
 
 72 
 
 99 
 
 93 
 
 74 
 
 
 (1,398)
 
 (1,371)
 
 (1,204)
 
 

   
 
 

   
 
 

   
Income (loss) before income taxes  
 
 252 
 
 213 
 
 148 
 
 482 
 
 451 
 
 418 
 
 
 (335)
 
 (278)
 
 (327)
 
 3,124 
 
 2,792 
 
 1,628 
Provision (benefit) for income taxes 
 
 85 
 
 70 
 
 46 
 
 181 
 
 169 
 
 155 
 
 
 157 
 
 (323)
 
 (362)
 
 1,395 
 
 764 
 
 296 
Segment net income (loss)  
$ 
 167 
$ 
 143 
 
 102 
 
 301 
 
 282 
 
 263 
 
 
 (492)
 
 45 
 
 35 
$ 
 1,729 
$ 
 2,028 
$ 
 1,332 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Identifiable segment assets (period end) 
$ 
 2,990 
$ 
 3,297 
 
 2,350 
 
 9,876 
 
 8,845 
 
 7,243 
 
 
 50,180 
 
 50,862 
 
 53,990 
$ 
 183,010 
$ 
 184,499 
$ 
 175,011 
(1) 
Includes financial data from subsidiaries below the quantitative and qualitative thresholds requiring disclosure. 
147 
  
148 
 
SIGNATURES
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 
or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the Regist
rant has duly caused this report to be 
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunt
o duly authorized, as of February 26, 2014:  
 
 BB&T Corporation
 
 (Registrant)
 
 
   /s/ Kelly S. King  
 
  Kelly S. King 
 
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Exchange Act, this report 
has been signed below by the fo
llowing persons on behalf of 
the Registrant and in the capacities 
indicated as of February 26, 2014: 
 
   /s/ Kelly S. King  
 
  Kelly S. King 
 
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
 
  (Principal Executive Officer) 
 
   /s/ Daryl N. Bible  
 
  Daryl N. Bible 
 
  Senior Executive Vice President and 
 
  Chief Financial Officer 
 
  (Principal Financial Officer) 
 
   /s/ Cynthia B. Powell  
 
  Cynthia B. Powell 
 
  Executive Vice President and 
 
  Corporate Controller 
 
  (Principal Accounting Officer) 
 
  
149 
 
A Majority of the Directors of the Registrant are included:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Kelly S. King 
 
/s/ Nido R. Qubein 
 
 
Kelly S. King
 
 
Nido R. Qubein
 
 
 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 
Director
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ John A. Allison IV 
 
/s/ Tollie W. Rich, Jr. 
 
 
John A. Allison IV
 
 
Tollie W. Rich, Jr.
 
 
 
Director
 
 
Director
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Jennifer S. Banner 
 
/s/ Thomas E. Skains 
 
 
Jennifer S. Banner
 
 
Thomas E. Skains
 
 
 
Director
 
 
Director
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ K. David Boyer Jr. 
 
 
 
 
K. David Boyer Jr.
 
 
Thomas N. Thompson
 
 
 
Director
 
 
Director
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Anna R. Cablik 
 
/s/ Edwin H. Welch, Ph.D. 
 
 
Anna R. Cablik
 
 
Edwin H. Welch, Ph.D.
 
 
 
Director
 
 
Director
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Ronald E. Deal 
 
/s/ Stephen T. Williams 
 
 
Ronald E. Deal
 
 
Stephen T. Williams
 
 
 
Director
 
 
Director
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ James A. Faulkner 
 
 
 
 
James A. Faulkner
 
 
 
 
 
Director
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ I. Patricia Henry 
 
 
 
 
I. Patricia Henry
 
 
 
 
 
Director
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ John P. Howe III, M.D. 
 
 
 
 
John P. Howe III, M.D.
 
 
 
 
 
Director
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Eric C. Kendrick 
 
 
 
 
Eric C. Kendrick
 
 
 
 
 
Director
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Dr. Louis B. Lynn 
 
 
 
 
Dr. Louis B. Lynn
 
 
 
 
 
Director
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Edward C. Milligan 
 
 
 
 
Edward C. Milligan
 
 
 
 
 
Director
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/s/ Charles A. Patton 
 
 
 
 
Charles A. Patton
 
 
 
 
 
Director
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
150 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX 
Exhibit No. 
 
Description 
 
Location 
2.1  Purchase and Assumption Agreement Whole Bank All 
Deposits, among the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, receiver of Colonial Bank, Montgomery, 
Alabama, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and 
Branch Banking and Trust Company, dated as of August 
14, 2009. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 2.1 of the Current Report 
on Form 8-K, filed August 17, 
2009. 
3(i)  Articles of Incorporation of the Registrant, as amended 
and restated April 25, 2013, and as further amended April 
26, 2013.  
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 3 (i) of the Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 2, 
2013. 
3(ii)  Bylaws of the Registra
nt, as amended and restated 
December 17, 2013. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 3(ii) of the Current Report 
on Form 8-K, filed December 19, 
2013. 
4.1  Articles of Incorporation of the Registrant, as amended 
and restated April 25, 2013, and as further amended April 
26, 2013.  
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 3 (i) of the Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 2, 
2013. 
4.2  Indenture Regarding Senior
 Securities (including form of 
Senior Debt Security) betwee
n Registrant and U.S. Bank 
National Association (as successor in interest to State 
Street Bank and Trust Company)
, as trustee, dated as of 
May 24, 1996. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4(c) of Form S-3 
Registration Statement No. 333-
02899. 
4.3  First Supplemental Indenture, dated May 4, 2009, to the 
Indenture Regarding Senior 
Securities, dated as of May 
24, 1996, between the Registra
nt and U.S. Bank National 
Association. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.2 of the Current Report 
on Form 8-K, filed May 4, 2009. 
4.4  Indenture Regard
ing Subordinated S
ecurities (including 
Form of Subordinated Debt Security) between the 
Registrant and U.S. Bank National Association (as 
successor in interest to State Street Bank and Trust 
Company), as trustee, da
ted as of May 24, 1996. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4(d) of Form S-3 
Registration Statement No. 333-
02899. 
4.5  First Supplemental Indenture, dated as of December 23, 
2003, to the Indenture Regardi
ng Subordinated Securities, 
dated as of May 24, 1996, between the Registrant and 
U.S. Bank National Association. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.5 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
4.6  Second Supplemental Inde
nture, dated as of September 
24, 2004, to the Indentur
e Regarding Subordinated 
Securities, dated as of May 24, 1996, between the 
Registrant and U.S. Bank National Association. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.7 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 26, 
2010. 
4.7  Third Supplemental Indenture, dated May 4, 2009, to the 
Indenture Regarding 
Subordinated Securities, dated as of 
May 24, 1996, between the Registrant and U.S. Bank 
National Association. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 4.6 of the Current Report 
on Form 8-K, filed May 4, 2009. 
10.1*  BB&T Corporation Am
ended and Restated Non-
Employee Directors™ Deferred Compensation and Stock 
Option Plan (amended and restated January 1, 2005). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.1 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 28, 
2008. 
10.2*ƒ  Form of Non-Employ
ee Director Nonqualified Stock 
Option Agreement for the BB&T Corporation Amended 
and Restated Non-Employee Directors™ Deferred 
Compensation and Stock Option Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.2 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 25, 
2011. 
  
151 
 
Exhibit No. 
 
Description 
 
Location 
10.3*  BB&T Corporation 1995 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan 
(as amended and restated through February 25, 2003). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 99 of Form S-8 
Registration Statement No. 333-
116502. 
10.4*  2008 Declaratio
n of Amendment to BB&T Corporation 
1995 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.2.a of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
10.5*  409A Declaration of Am
endment to BB&T Corporation 
1995 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.2.b of the Annual 
Report on Form 10-K, filed 
February 27, 2009. 
10.6*  Form of Employee Nonqua
lified Stock Option Agreement 
for the BB&T Corporation 1995 Omnibus Stock Incentive 
Plan, as amended and restated. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.5 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 25, 
2011. 
10.7*  BB&T Corporation Amende
d and Restated 2004 Stock 
Incentive Plan, as amended (as amended through February 
24, 2009). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
the Appendix to the Proxy 
Statement for the 2009 Annual 
Meeting of Shareholders on 
Schedule 14A, filed March 13, 
2009. 
10.8*  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (Performance-
Based Vesting Component) fo
r Executive Officers under 
the BB&T Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 
Stock Incentive Plan (June 2010 Performance Award). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.1 of the Current Report 
on Form 8-K, filed June 25, 2010. 
10.9*  Form of Performance 
Unit Award Agreement for the 
BB&T Corporation Amended an
d Restated 2004 Stock 
Incentive Plan (3-Year Vesting). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.6 of the Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 7, 
2010. 
10.10*  Form of Non-Employee 
Director Restricted Stock Unit 
Agreement for the BB&T Corporation Amended and 
Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (5-Year Vesting). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.6 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 28, 
2008. 
10.11*  Form of Non-Employee 
Director Restricted Stock Unit 
Agreement for the BB&T Corporation Amended and 
Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (4-Year Vesting). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.2 of the Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 7, 
2010. 
10.12*  Form of Non-Employ
ee Director Nonqualified Stock 
Option Agreement for the BB&T Corporation Amended 
and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (5-Year Vesting). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.7 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 28, 
2008. 
10.13*  Form of Non-Employ
ee Director Nonqualified Stock 
Option Agreement for the BB&T Corporation Amended 
and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (4-Year Vesting). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.3 of the Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 7, 
2010. 
10.14*  Form of Employee Nonqua
lified Stock Option Agreement 
for the BB&T Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 
Stock Incentive Plan (5-Year Vesting). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.8 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 28, 
2008. 
  
152 
 
Exhibit No. 
 
Description 
 
Location 
10.15*  Form of Employee Nonqua
lified Stock Option Agreement 
for the BB&T Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 
Stock Incentive Plan (4-Year Vesting). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.5 of the Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 7, 
2010. 
10.16*  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for the BB&T 
Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive 
Plan (5-Year Vesting). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.1 of the Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 8, 
2009. 
10.17*  Form of Restricted Stoc
k Unit Agreement for the BB&T 
Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 Stock Incentive 
Plan (4-Year Vesting). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.4 of the Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 7, 
2010. 
10.18*  BB&T Corporation Amended and Restated Short-term 
Incentive Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.11 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
10.19*  First Amendment to 
BB&T Corporation Short-term 
Incentive Plan (January 1, 2009 Restatement). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.1 of the Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 7, 
2010. 
10.20*  Southern National Deferred Compensation Plan for Key 
Executives including amendments. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.21 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 25, 
2011. 
10.21*  BB&T Corporation Target Pension Plan.  Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.13 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
10.22*  First Amendment to the BB&T Corporation Target 
Pension Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.23 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 25, 
2011. 
10.23*ƒ  Second Amendment to
 the BB&T Corporation Target 
Pension Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.24 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 25, 
2011. 
10.24*ƒ  Third Amendment to
 the BB&T Corporation Target 
Pension Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.25 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 25, 
2011. 
10.25*  BB&T Corporation Non-Qualified 
Defined Benefit Plan.  Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.14 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
10.26*  First Amendment to the BB&T Corporation Non-
Qualified Defined Benefit Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.25 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 25, 
2011. 
10.27*ƒ  Second Amendment 
to the BB&T Corporation Non-
Qualified Defined Benefit Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.28 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 25, 
2011. 
  
153 
 
Exhibit No. 
 
Description 
 
Location 
10.28*ƒ  Third Amendment to the BB&T Corporation Non-
Qualified Defined Benefit Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.29 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 25, 
2011. 
10.29*  BB&T Corporation Non-Qualified Defined Contribution 
Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.15 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
10.30*  BB&T Corporation N
on-Qualified Deferred 
Compensation Trust Amended and Restated effective 
November 1, 2001 (including amendments). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.16 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
10.31*  BB&T Corporation N
on-Qualified Deferred 
Compensation Trust Amended and Restated effective 
November 1, 2001 (including amendments). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.17 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 28, 
2008. 
10.32*  Form of Employee Nonqua
lified Stock Option Agreement 
for the BB&T Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 
Stock Incentive Plan (4-Year Vesting with Clawback 
Provision). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.1 of the Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 4, 
2012.  
10.33*  Form of Employee Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for 
the BB&T Corporation Amended and Restated 2004 
Stock Incentive Plan (4-Year Vesting with Clawback 
Provision). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.2 of the Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 4, 
2012.  
10.34*  Form of Performance Un
it Award Agreement for the 
BB&T Corporation Amended an
d Restated 2004 Stock 
Incentive Plan (3-Year Vesting 2012 - 2014). 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.3 of the Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 4, 
2012.  
10.35*  Form of Employee Nonqua
lified Stock Option Agreement 
for the BB&T Corporation 
2012 Incentive Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.1 of the Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 2, 
2013.  
10.36*  Form of Employee Restricted Stock Unit Agreement for 
the BB&T Corporation 2012 Incentive Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.2 of the Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q, filed August 
7, 2012.  
10.37*  Form of Director Restric
ted Stock Unit Agreement for the 
BB&T Corporation 2012 Incentive Plan.  
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.2 of the Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 2, 
2013. 
10.38*  Form of Restricted Stoc
k Unit Agreement (Performance-
Based Vesting Component) fo
r Executive Officers under 
the BB&T Corporation 2012 Incentive Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.3 of the Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 2, 
2013. 
10.39*  Form of LTIP Award Ag
reement for Executive Officers 
under the BB&T Corporation 2012 Incentive Plan. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.4 of the Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q, filed May 2, 
2013. 
10.40*  Amended and Restated Em
ployment Agreement by and 
among BB&T Corporation, Branch Banking and Trust 
Co. and Kelly S. King dated as of December 19, 2012. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.1 of the Current Report 
on Form 8-K, filed December 19, 
2012. 
  
154 
 
Exhibit No. 
 
Description 
 
Location 
10.41*  2008 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by 
and among BB&T Corporation, Branch Banking and 
Trust Co. and Christopher L. Henson. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.21 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
10.42*  2008 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by 
and among BB&T Corporation, Branch Banking and 
Trust Co. and Daryl N. Bible. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.22 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
10.43*  2008 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by 
and among BB&T Corporation, Branch Banking and 
Trust Co. and Ricky K. Brown. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.23 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
10.44*  2008 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by 
and among BB&T Corporation, Branch Banking and 
Trust Co. and Barbara F. Duck. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.24 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
10.45*  2008 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by 
and among BB&T Corporation, Branch Banking and 
Trust Co. and Donna C. Goodrich. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.25 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
10.46*  2008 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by 
and among BB&T Corporation, Branch Banking and 
Trust Co. and Robert E. Greene. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.26 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
10.47*  2008 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by 
and among BB&T Corporation, Branch Banking and 
Trust Co. and Clarke R. Starnes, III. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.27 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
10.48*  2008 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by 
and among BB&T Corporation, Branch Banking and 
Trust Co. and Steven B. Wiggs. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.28 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
10.49*  2008 Amended and Restated Employment Agreement by 
and among BB&T Corporation, Branch Banking and 
Trust Co. and C. Leon Wilson, III. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.29 of the Annual Report 
on Form 10-K, filed February 27, 
2009. 
10.50*  2012 Employment Agreement by and among BB&T 
Corporation, Branch Banking and Trust Co. and Cynthia 
A. Williams. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.1 of the Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q, filed 
November 2, 2012. 
10.51*  2012 Employment Agreement by and among BB&T 
Corporation, Branch Banking
 and Trust Co. and William 
R. Yates. 
 Incorporated herein by reference to 
Exhibit 10.2 of the Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q, filed 
November 2, 2012. 
11  Statement re computation of earnings per 
share.  Filed herewith as Note 19 to the 
consolidated financial statements. 
12ƒ  Statement re computation of ratios.  Filed herewith. 
21ƒ  Subsidiaries of the Regi
strant.  Filed herewith. 
23ƒ  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting 
Firm. 
 Filed herewith. 
  
155 
 
Exhibit No. 
 
Description 
 
Location 
31.1  Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 
13a-14(a) or 15(d)-14(a) of the Exchange Act, as adopted 
pursuant to Section 302 of 
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002. 
 Filed herewith. 
31.2  Certification of Chief Fina
ncial Officer pursuant to Rule 
13a-14(a) or 15(d)-14(a) of the Exchange Act, as adopted 
pursuant to Section 302 of 
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002. 
 Filed herewith. 
32  Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief 
Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as 
adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley 
Act of 2002. 
 Filed herewith. 
101.CAL  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase.  Filed herewith. 
101.DEF  XBRL Taxonomy Definition Linkbase.  Filed herewith. 
101.INS  XBRL Instance Document.  Filed herewith. 
101.LAB  XBRL Taxonomy 
Extension Label Linkba
se.  Filed herewith. 
101.PRE  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase.  Filed herewith. 
101.SCH  XBRL Taxonomy Extension
 Schema.  Filed herewith. 
 
* 
Management compensatory plan or arrangement. 
ƒ 
Exhibit filed with the SEC an
d available upon request.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK) 
  
 
Exhibit 31.1 
 
CERTIFICATIONS 
 
I, Kelly S. King, certify that:  
 
1.
 
I have reviewed this Annual Report 
on Form 10-K of BB&T Corporation; 
 
2.
 
Based on my knowledge, this report do
es not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material 
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not 
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
 
3.
 
Based on my knowledge, the financial stat
ements, and other financial information in
cluded in this report, fairly present 
in all material respects the financial condition,
 results of operations and cash flows 
of the registrant 
as of, and for, the 
periods presented in this report;  
 
4.
 
The registrant™s other certifyi
ng officer(s) and I are responsib
le for establishing and maintain
ing disclosure controls and 
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as 
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 
15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  
 
a)
 
Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
 such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed 
under our supervision, to ensure that 
material information relating to the re
gistrant, including its consolidated 
subsidiaries, is made known to us by ot
hers within those entities, particularly duri
ng the period in which this report 
is being prepared;  
 
b)
 
Designed such internal contro
l over financial reporting, or caused such in
ternal control over financial reporting to be 
designed under our supervision, to 
provide reasonable assuran
ce regarding the reliability of financial reporting and 
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles;  
 
c)
 
Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant™s disclosure 
controls and procedures and presented in this report our 
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure control
s and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by 
this report based on 
such evaluation; and 
 
d)
 
Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant™s
 internal control over financial 
reporting that occurred during 
the registrant™s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant™s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that 
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially 
affect, the registrant™s internal control over financial 
reporting; and 
 
5.
 
The registrant™s other certifyi
ng officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on ou
r most recent evaluation of internal control 
over financial reporting, to the registra
nt™s auditors and the audit committee of th
e registrant™s board of directors (or 
persons performing the equivalent functions):  
 
a)
 
All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the de
sign or operation of internal control over financial 
reporting which are reasonably
 likely to adversely affect the registrant™s ability to record, process, summarize and 
report financial information; and  
 
b)
 
Any fraud, whether or not material, that 
involves management or other employee
s who have a significant role in the 
registrant™s internal control over financial reporting.  
 
Date: February 26, 2014 
  /s/ Kelly S. King  
 
 Kelly S. King 
 
 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
  
  
 
Exhibit 31.2 
 
CERTIFICATIONS 
 
I, Daryl N. Bible, certify that:  
 
1.
 
I have reviewed this Annual Report 
on Form 10-K of BB&T Corporation;  
 
2.
 
Based on my knowledge, this report do
es not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material 
fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not 
misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  
 
3.
 
Based on my knowledge, the financial stat
ements, and other financial information in
cluded in this report, fairly present 
in all material respects the financial condition,
 results of operations and cash flows 
of the registrant 
as of, and for, the 
periods presented in this report;  
 
4.
 
The registrant™s other certifyi
ng officer(s) and I are responsib
le for establishing and maintain
ing disclosure controls and 
procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as 
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 
15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  
 
a)
 
Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
 such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed 
under our supervision, to ensure that 
material information relating to the re
gistrant, including its consolidated 
subsidiaries, is made known to us by ot
hers within those entities, particularly duri
ng the period in which this report 
is being prepared;  
 
b)
 
Designed such internal contro
l over financial reporting, or caused such in
ternal control over financial reporting to be 
designed under our supervision, to 
provide reasonable assuran
ce regarding the reliability of financial reporting and 
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles;  
 
c)
 
Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant™s disclosure 
controls and procedures and presented in this report our 
conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure control
s and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by 
this report based on 
such evaluation; and  
 
d)
 
Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant™s
 internal control over financial 
reporting that occurred during 
the registrant™s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant™s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that 
has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially 
affect, the registrant™s internal control over financial 
reporting; and  
 
5.
 
The registrant™s other certifyi
ng officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on ou
r most recent evaluation of internal control 
over financial reporting, to the registra
nt™s auditors and the audit committee of th
e registrant™s board of directors (or 
persons performing the equivalent functions):  
 
a)
 
All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the de
sign or operation of internal control over financial 
reporting which are reasonably
 likely to adversely affect the registrant™s ability to record, process, summarize and 
report financial information; and  
 
b)
 
Any fraud, whether or not material, that 
involves management or other employee
s who have a significant role in the 
registrant™s internal control over financial reporting.  
 
Date: February 26, 2014 
  /s/ Daryl N. Bible  
 
 Daryl N. Bible 
 
 Senior Executive Vice President and 
 
 Chief Financial Officer 
  
  
 
Exhibit 32 
 
CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 
 
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  
 
Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to 
Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxle
y Act of 2002, the undersigned, 
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of 
BB&T Corporation (the ﬁCompa
nyﬂ), do hereby certify that 
 
1.
 
The Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal period ended December 31, 2013 (the ﬁForm 10-Kﬂ) of the Company 
fully complies with the requirements
 of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the S
ecurities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
 
2.
 
The information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, 
in all material respects, the financial condition and results of 
operations of the Company.  
 
 
Date:  February 26, 2014 
  /s/ Kelly S. King  
 
 Kelly S. King
 
 
 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 
 
  /s/ Daryl N. Bible  
 
 Daryl N. Bible 
 
 Senior Executive Vice President and 
 
 Chief Financial Officer 
 
 
A signed original of this written statem
ent required by Section 906 has been pro
vided to BB&T Corp
oration and will be 
retained by BB&T Corporation and furn
ished to the Securities and Exchange Co
mmission or its staff upon request. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK) 
 2013 Annual Report
 | 21General Information
SEC Filings
BB&T Corporation ˜les required reports 
with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission each year. Copies of these 
reports may be obtained upon written 

request to:
Daryl N. Bible
 Senior Executive Vice President
 and Chief Financial Of˜cer
 BB&T Corporation
 200 West Second Street
 PO Box 1250
 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-1250
Corporate Headquarters
BB&T Corporation
 200 West Second Street
 PO Box 1250
 Winston-Salem, NC 27102-1250
 336-733-2000
Transfer Agent
Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
 250 Royall Street
 Canton, MA 02021
Equal Opportunity Employer
BB&T Corporation is an equal 
opportunity employer. All matters 
regarding recruiting, hiring, training, 
compensation, bene˜ts, promotions, 
 transfers and all other personnel 

policies will continue to be free from 
discriminatory practices.
Shareholder Services
Shareholders seeking information 
regarding transfer instructions, dividends, 
lost certi˜cates or other general 
information should write or call:
Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
 P.O. Box 43078
 Providence, RI 02940-3078
 800-213-4314

Address changes, reprinting of tax 
information, and account information 
may be directly accessed through 
 the Computershare website using 

Investor Centre: 
Computershare.com/BBT
Stock Exchange 
 and Trading Symbol
The common stock of BB&T Corporation 
 is traded on the New 
York Stock 
Exchange under the symbol BBT.
Direct Stock Purchase and 

Dividend Reinvestment Plan
The Direct Stock Purchase and Dividend 
Reinvestment Plan offers prospective 
and current shareholders the 
opportunity to affordably obtain BB&T 

common shares. Shareholders may 
reinvest dividends, purchase additional 
shares, and sell shares on a regular 

basis. For more information, contact 
Computershare at 800-213-4314.
News Media
News media representatives seeking 
information should contact:
Cynthia A. Williams
 Senior Executive Vice President
 Chief Corporate Communications Of˜cer
 336-733-1478
Analyst Information
Analysts, investors and others seeking 
additional ˜nancial information 
 should contact:
Alan W. Greer
 Executive Vice President
 Investor Relations
 336-733-3021

Tamera L. Gjesdal
 Senior Vice President
 Investor Relations
 336-733-3058
Clients
Clients seeking assistance with BB&T 
products and services should call 
 800-BANK BBT (800-226-5228).
Website
Please visit BBT.com for information 

concerning BB&T™s products and 
services, news releases, ˜nancial 
information, corporate governance 

practices and other information.
Corporate Pro˜le 
Founded in 1872, BB&T Corporation (ﬁBB&Tﬂ or ﬁthe Corporationﬂ) continues to build 

on a strong foundation of excellence.
Headquartered in Winston-Salem, North Carolina, BB&T had consolidated assets at 
December 31, 2013, totaling $183.0 billion, and ranks as the ninth-largest ˜nancial 
institution based on deposits in the United States. As of December 31, 2013, BB&T 

operated 1,825 ˜nancial centers in 12 states and Washington, D.C. 
BB&T is a values-driven, highly pro˜table growth organization. A Fortune 500 company, 
BB&T offers a full range of consumer and commercial banking, securities brokerage, 
asset management, mortgage and insurance products and services. We are consistently 

recognized for outstanding client satisfaction by J.D. Power and Associates, the U.S. 
Small Business Administration, Greenwich Associates and others.
Our fundamental strategy is to deliver the best value proposition in our markets. 
Recognizing value is a function of quality to price, our focus is on delivering high-quality 
client service resulting in the Perfect Client Experience.
Our overarching purpose is to achieve our vision and mission, consistent with our 
values, with the ultimate goal of maximizing shareholder returns.
At BB&T, we™ve spent 142 years sharing our knowledge with our clients. By offering 
sound advice and personal attention, we help our clients make informed choices as 
they manage their day-to-day ˜nances and set a course to reach their long-term 
˜nancial goals.
More information about BB&T and our full line of products and services is available 
 at BBT.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
This 2013 Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements as de˜ned in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements may address 
issues that involve signi˜cant risks, uncertainties, estimates and assumptions made by management. Actual results may differ materially from current projections. 
 Please refer to BB&T™s ˜lings with the Securities and Exchange Commission for a summary of important factors that may affect BB&T™s forward-looking statements. BB&T 

undertakes no obligation to revise these statements following the date of this Annual Report.
About the Report
This 2013 Annual Report contains ˜nancial information and performance measures determined by methods other than in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted 
in the United States of America (ﬁGAAPﬂ). BB&T™s management uses these measures to evaluate the underlying performance and ef˜ciency of BB&T™s operations. Management 
believes that non-GAAP measures provide a greater understanding of ongoing operations and enhance comparability of results with prior periods as well as demonstrating the 
effects of signi˜cant gains and charges in the current period. The company believes that a meaningful analysis of its ˜nancial performance requires an understanding of the factors 
underlying that performance. BB&T™s management believes that investors may use these non-GAAP ˜nancial measures to analyze ˜nancial performance without the impact 
 of unusual items that may obscure trends in the company™s underlying performance. These disclosures should not be viewed as a substitute for ˜nancial measures determined 
 in accordance with GAAP, nor are they necessarily comparable to non-GAAP performance measures that may be presented by other companies. The Tier 1 common equity ratio 
 is a non-GAAP measure. BB&T uses the Tier 1 common equity de˜nition used in the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program to calculate the ratio. BB&T™s management uses these 
measures to assess the quality of capital and believes that investors may ˜nd them useful in their analysis of the corporation. These capital measures are not necessarily comparable 
to similar capital measures that may be presented by other companies. Asset quality ratios have been adjusted to remove the impact of acquired loans and foreclosed property 
covered by the FDIC loss-sharing agreements. Please refer to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, for appropriate non-GAAP disclosures.
BB&T Corporation
200 West Second Street

PO Box 1250

Winston-Salem, NC 27102-1250
C0001125042
