2011 Annual Re
port
A STRONG HERITAGE
As we celebrate BB&T™s 140th birthday, it is 
important to re˜ect on our heritage. A review 
of how our founders built BB&T helps us learn 
from the challenges they faced, and appreciate 
how their actions molded the values that guide 
us today. Most of all, our rich history makes 
us con˚dent about the future as we strive to 
create the best ˚nancial institution possible 
for our shareholders, clients, communities 
and associates.
In the eastern North Carolina farm town of 
Wilson, Alpheus Branch and Thomas Jefferson 
Hadley formed Branch and Hadley in 1872 to 
help the community rebuild after the devastation 
of the Civil War. With a place to borrow money at 
a reasonable rate, farmers planted their ˜elds in 
cotton and later experimented with a new crop, 
tobacco. By the turn of the century, following Mr. 
Branch™s purchase of Mr. Hadley™s interest for 
$81,000 in 1887 and Mr. Branch™s death in 1893, 
the tobacco market brought prosperity to Wilson. 
In 1907, Branch Banking and Company became 
the ˜rst bank in North Carolina to actively engage 
in trust activities. The bank, renamed Branch 
Banking and Trust Company in 1913, sold Liberty 
Bonds when America entered World War I. By 
1923, with $4 million in assets and newly opened 
insurance and mortgage loan departments, BB&T 
became known as one of the state™s strongest 
˜nancial institutions.
The stock market crash in 1929 and start of the 
Great Depression caused the failure of 2,427 of 
the nation™s banks, including 131 North Carolina 
state banks. When panicked depositors made a 
run on Wilson™s eight banks, BB&T was the only 
bank to remain open on December 30, 1931. The 
bank paid in full the demands of each depositor, 
many of whom immediately went to the Post 
Of˜ce to put their money in Postal Savings, the 
only apparent safe investment. What they didn™t 
know was that postal of˜cials went out the back 
door and deposited the same money in BB&T. 
Later that day, after a Brink™s truck stopped in 
front of the bank Œ and a bank associate posted a 
hand-lettered sign reading, ﬁWe have $1,000,000. 
Come and get it!ﬂ Œ a line formed to make 
deposits. Throughout the Depression years of 
the 1930s, BB&T never refused a withdrawal or 
failed to pay a dividend on its stock. 
BB&T expanded rapidly during and after World 
War II, as the government spent billions of dollars 
and employment surged during the war effort, 
and the bank helped ˜nance resurgent post-
war consumer spending. But BB&T retained its 
emphasis on strength and stability, avoiding 
many of the problems experienced by other banks 
that pursued growth at any cost in the 1960s and 
later. BB&T suffered two personal blows in the 
1980s when successive CEOs Œ Thorne Gregory 
and L. Vincent Lowe Jr. Œ died suddenly of heart 
attacks, both at age 53, within seven years of 
each other. In 1989, following Mr. Lowe™s death, 
the board of directors named John A. Allison IV 
as chairman and CEO.
At the same time, the board promoted four 
other executives, all in their 40s, to join the 
new leadership team: Henry G. Williamson Jr. as 
president and W. Kendall Chalk, Kelly S. King and 
Scott E. Reed. The team guided BB&T through 
 
a dramatic series of changes at the bank 
and in the industry. Concerned that BB&T™s 
increasing size could jeopardize its responsive 
client service, the bank created 10 regions 
to decentralize decision making and shift 
authority to the branch level. With the approval 
of interstate banking in 1985 and the sale of 
troubled savings and loans later in the 1980s and 
1990s, BB&T pursued an aggressive acquisition 
strategy that set the stage for a transaction 
that would transform the company Œ a ﬁmerger 
 
of equalsﬂ with Southern National Corporation 
in 1994. Adopting Winston-Salem as its new 
headquarters city, the merged bank served clients 
through branches bearing the BB&T name.
Since then, BB&T has expanded its dominance 
in North Carolina and has grown rapidly with 
acquisitions ˜rst in Virginia, Maryland and 
Washington, D.C., and then in Georgia, West 
Virginia, Kentucky, Tennessee and Florida. At the 
same time, BB&T diversi˜ed with investments 
in insurance, investment banking, auto lending 
and more. In the mid 2000s, the bank took 
 
a self-imposed hiatus from acquisitions as prices 
were pushed too high. BB&T focused instead 
on organic growth in banking markets and 
new businesses such as wealth management 
and corporate banking. Some started calling 
BB&T overly conservative. Mr. Allison, noting 
the bank™s aggressive acquisitions had increased 
assets from $4.5 billion to $136.5 billion during 
his career, corrected the misimpression: ﬁPeople 
confuse principled with conservative. What we 
are is rational and principled, and there™s a big 
difference.ﬂ Mr. Allison tirelessly advocated those 
principles and values throughout his tenure as 
CEO, and they endure today.
Kelly King, who became CEO on January 1, 
2009, after Mr. Allison™s retirement, has guided 
BB&T through the most challenging time for the 
country and industry since the Great Depression. 
During a period when 400 banks went bankrupt 
or were acquired, BB&T remained pro˜table every 
quarter by largely avoiding subprime mortgages 
and other exotic loans and risky investments. 
Emerging as one of the nation™s strongest 
banks, BB&T was positioned to take advantage 
of opportunities such as the 2009 FDIC-assisted 
purchase of Colonial Bank, BB&T™s largest-ever 
acquisition, that expanded its presence in Florida 
and Alabama and gave the bank a foothold in 
Texas. At the same time, recognizing the need 
for more hands-on help for BB&T™s distressed 
communities, Mr. King launched the annual 
Lighthouse Project, giving associates paid time 
off to volunteer and lead more than 3,200 
community-service projects that improved the 
lives of more than 5 million people.
Today, with assets of $174.6 billion and 1,779 
branches in 12 states and Washington, D.C., BB&T 
is on the threshold of its next chapter, with an 
unwavering commitment to the vision, mission 
and values that have served it so well.
The 2012 Annual Meeting of Shareholders will 
be held on Tuesday, April 24, 2012, at 11 a.m. 
Eastern Time, at Embassy Suites, 460 North 
Cherry Street, Winston-Salem, North Carolina.
ANNUAL MEETING
About the cover:
 ﬁ
Heritage and Hope
ﬂ by Bryan Larsen, 
©
 2012 Bryan Larsen, Quent Cordair Fine Art, 707-255-2242, www.cordair.com
1    
2011   
2010  
 % ChangeANNUAL RESULTS         
Net income available to common shareholders $ 
 1,289  $ 
 816    58.0 %
Diluted earnings per common share   1.83   
 1.16    57.8  Cash dividends declared per common share (1)  .65   
 .60    8.3 Book value per common share  24.98   
23.67    5.5Tangible book value per common share
(2)  16.73   
 15.43    8.4 AVERAGE BALANCES         
Total assets $  162,966   $  159,658    2.1 %Total securities(4)  29,923   
 27,610   8.4 Loans and leases  105,962    
 104,787    1.1  Deposits   112,318    
 106,773    5.2  Shareholders™ equity   17,267    
 16,886    2.3PERIOD˜END BALANCES         
Total assets $  174,579   $  157,081    11.1 %Total securities(4) 36,407   
 23,169   57.1 Loans and leases  111,205   
 107,264    3.7  Deposits   124,939    
 107,213    16.5  Shareholders™ equity   17,480    
 16,498   6.0PERFORMANCE RATIOS   Return on average assets   
   
.82  %
 .54  % 
Return on average common shareholders™ equity     7.49   4.85   Net interest margin Œ taxable equivalent   
   4.06   4.03   Fee income ratio(3)      39.7   41.0   Efficiency ratio(3)      55.2   53.9   CAPITAL RATIOS˚2˛     
          
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
     
 12.5   %  11.8  % 
 Tier 1 common equity as a percentage of risk-weighted assets
   9.7    9.1    MISCELLANEOUS INFORMATION     
        
End of period shares outstanding (in thousands)   
697,143  694,381 Diluted weighted average shares outstanding (in thousands)    
 705,168    701,039  Full-time equivalent associates    
 31,774    31,354   Banking offices    
1,779   1,782  ATMs     
 2,483    2,481(1)
 BB&T Corporation declared a special one-
time dividend of $0.01 per common share 
in the first quarter of 2011.
(2)
 The Tier 1 common equity ratio is a non-
GAAP measure. BB&T uses the Tier 1 
common equity definition used in the SCAP 
assessment to calculate this ratio. Refer to 

page 17 for additional disclosures.
(3)
 Excludes securities gains (losses), foreclosed 
property expense, amortization of intangible 
assets, merger-related and restructuring 
charges, the impacts of FDIC loss share 
accounting, and other selected items.
(4)
 Total securities includes securities available 
for sale (AFS) and securities held to maturity 
(HTM). Average balances reflect both AFS 
and HTM securities at amortized cost. Period-
end balances reflect AFS securities at fair 
value and HTM securities at amortized cost.
Consolidated Financial Highlights
BB&T Corporation and Subsidiaries
 (Dollars in millions, except per share data)
ﬁWe believe BB&T and other strong banks are positioned to help 
lead our nation™s recovery by doing what we have always done Œ 
provide the capital and counsel that foster business investment 
and economic growth, which in turn creates jobs.ﬂ
Kelly S. King
Chairman and
 
Chief Executive Officer
3TO OUR SHAREHOLDERS:
Anchored by 140 years of strength and 
stability, BB&T has emerged stronger than 
ever from an unprecedented period of 
turbulence and change in our industry, 
ready to help our shareholders, clients, 
communities and associates achieve 
economic success and ˜nancial security.
Despite continuing uncertainty and risk 
in banking and the global economy, our 
company has demonstrated industry-leading 
growth and pro˜tability by remaining faithful 
to our long-held values and delivering the 
best value proposition Œ the best service 
quality Œ in the marketplace.
More broadly, at a time when our country 
desperately needs leadership and a more 
positive outlook, we believe BB&T and other 
strong banks are positioned to help lead our 
nation™s recovery by doing what we have 
always done Œ provide the capital and counsel 
that foster business investment and economic 
growth, which in turn creates jobs.
We have shown strength across a broad 
spectrum. Our revenue has grown through-
out the dif˜cult credit cycle over the last 
four years, substantially outperforming the 
median growth rate of our peers. We are one 
of only three large regional banks to remain 
pro˜table throughout the cycle. We are 
successfully executing a ˜ve-year strategy 
to diversify our balance sheet, decreasing 
our exposure to higher risk real estate 
loans and more expensive certi˜cates of 
deposit, and increasing our focus on less 
volatile commercial lending and lower-cost 
deposits. Our emphasis on other income-
producing businesses, including capital 
markets, insurance, specialized lending 
and wealth management, is adding to 
our diverse revenue mix. We achieved 
broad-based improvement in all credit-
quality indicators during 2011 and rank 
among the industry leaders in meeting 
existing and future capital standards. 
And, consistent with our ultimate goal of 
maximizing shareholder returns, we ranked 
second in our peer group in total return 
to shareholders.
At a time of ˜nancial challenges when our 
clients need our support, our service quality 
has reached historical highs, continuing to 

lead all of our in-market peers as measured 
by independent surveys in key lines of 
business, including consumer, commercial 
and mortgage servicing. The BB&T team 
helped more than 10,000 clients realize their 
dream of homeownership and made more 
than 94,000 new and renewed loans to small 
business, commercial and retail clients. Our 

associates volunteered in more than 1,100 
annual Lighthouse projects to help people 
in our communities cope with tough times. 

And I am pleased to announce that BB&T is 

bringing hundreds of previously outsourced 
jobs back to the U.S. because of volatile 
offshore conditions Œ a move we believe 
will bene˜t our economy. 
Our community bank structure is at 
the heart of BB&T™s success, allowing 
hometown bankers in our 36 regions to make 
virtually all decisions locally while taking 
advantage of the ef˜ciency and depth of 
our centralized support system. The ˜nancial 
crisis of the last four years taught us that 
diversi˜cation matters, reaf˜rming the value 
of our robust Southeast and Mid-Atlantic 
banking markets. Our national-scale, non-
traditional businesses provide valuable 
product diversi˜cation Œ including AFCO / 

CAFO insurance premium ˜nance, ranked 
No. 1 in the United States and Canada, 
Shef˜eld Financial Inc., which serves more 
than 30,000 outdoor power sports and 
other dealers nationwide, and Grandbridge 

Real Estate Capital LLC, one of the nation™s 

largest full-service commercial real estate 
˜nance ˜rms. Our banking markets, among 
the nation™s fastest growing in population 
and household income, stretch from our 
heritage markets in the Carolinas and 
Virginia, with diverse industries ranging 
from agriculture to technology, to our newer 
foothold market in energy-rich Texas. BB&T 
is well positioned to continue to build market 
share in our banking markets by making 
strategic acquisitions that make sense for 

our shareholders. 
At the same time, we recognize that BB&T 
needs to constantly evolve to keep its edge 
in a rapidly changing world. In 2011 and 
continuing in 2012, we are challenging 
everyone at BB&T to rethink their businesses 
and devise new and better ways to 
optimize revenue and expenses. Unlike 
some competitors that are simply slashing 
costs, we are re-conceptualizing all parts of 
BB&T in ways that will bene˜t our clients, 

our communities and our shareholders.
Of course, challenges remain. Even if 
Europe avoids a collapse of the euro amid 
its debt 
crisis and the U.S. avoids a double-
dip 
recession, economic growth is likely to 
remain relatively slow in 2012, continuing 
to inhibit loan growth. Government over-
reaction has imposed unneeded and 
burdensome regulation, including very high 
capital and liquidity standards that limit 

the availability of credit that would drive 

faster economic growth. 
Most troubling is that the entire banking 
industry is suffering from a poor public 
image because bankers have been blamed 
for causing the entire ˜nancial meltdown. 
That™s simply not true. While excesses by 
some Wall Street banks and mortgage 
lenders (many of them now defunct) 
contributed to the over-leveraging of 
our economy, all of us Œ governments, 
companies, consumers Œ have been living 
beyond our means for more than two 
decades, borrowing and spending too much 
and saving and producing too little. 
The truth is that banks are leaders in creating 
jobs, growing the economy and supporting 
their communities. We™re providing the 
capital that allows businesses to expand 
and hire. Lending by U.S. commercial banks 
has returned to pre-crisis levels of nearly 
$7 trillion. Loans to small businesses hit 
a four-year high in November 2011. At BB&T, 
we continued to support our clients with 

capital throughout the crisis. We™ve been 
creating jobs and committing resources 
to help our legacy hometowns like Wilson, 
North Carolina, since 1872, and now are 
2011 Annual Report
Sharing Knowledge for a Brighter Direction
4Diverse Mix Drives Revenue Growth
Revenue Contribution by Segment
54%
12%
12%
8%7%7%Community Banking
Financial Services

Insurance Services

Specialized Lending

Dealer Financial Services

Residential Mortgage Banking
Based on segment revenues, excluding other, treasury and corporate for year ending 2011. 
NPAs Decrease $1.5 billion in 2011
Total Nonperforming Assets
Excludes covered assets.
helping the economy and communities 
recover in markets ranging from Miami, 
Florida, to Midland, Texas. 
I also am troubled by all of the naysayers 
about America and our economy. We have 
an abundance of geographic assets, natural 

resources and entrepreneurial spirit, and our 
per capita Gross Domestic Product is still 
the envy of the world. What we suffer is 
an overall lack of leadership in Washington, 

where dysfunctional partisanship and ﬁthe 
blame gameﬂ have focused us on what™s 
wrong (often with regulatory overreaction) 

rather than what™s right and possible.
At BB&T, we believe it is vital to restore the 
public™s trust in banking and in the American 
economy. We have been a values-driven 
organization for 140 years, and know the 
way we conduct our business and live 
our lives is by far the most important 
measure of our worth. We are committed 
to demonstrating once again why banks are 
important Œ and how much value they bring 
to consumers and businesses Œ as we help 
our economy regain its footing and achieve 
our vision of creating the best ˜nancial 
institution possible. We ˜rmly believe our 
best days are ahead.
2011 RESULTS
We are pleased to report our strongest 
earnings in more than three years, with 
accelerating loan growth, much improved 
credit quality and diversi˜cation and 
continued progress in growing deposits 
and improving our deposit mix. Given our 
strong momentum in growing revenues, 
loans and deposits, combined with our 
outlook for signi˜cantly lower credit costs 

and a relentless focus on ef˜ciency, we are 

very optimistic about 2012.
Net income available to common share-
holders for 2011 totaled $1.3 billion, or 
$1.83 per diluted share, an increase of 
58% over 2010. Net operating revenues 
accelerated during the year, totaling $2.3 
billion in the fourth quarter, an increase 
of 11.8% on an annualized basis. Looking 
at revenue growth over the course of the 
˜nancial crisis, BB&T revenues grew 12% 
from year-end 2007 to year-end 2011, 
compared to a 1.3% median growth rate 
for our peers.
Our credit quality metrics showed substantial 
improvement across the board and remained 
superior to our peers. BB&T™s nonperforming 
assets declined approximately $1.5 billion, 

or 38%, in 2011 to the lowest level in three 

years. The improvement was driven in part 
by our aggressive strategy of reducing 
foreclosed property balances Œ concentrated 
in the most dif˜cult land-related assets Œ 
starting in the second half of the year. 
Foreclosed property in˚ows dropped by 
57.3% in the fourth quarter, compared to 
the fourth quarter of 2010. We expect 
continued aggressive disposition of these 
problem assets in 2012. The reduction of 
these problem assets is very important and 
will drive a faster return to more normalized 
earnings. We expect to save about $700 
million in annualized credit costs by 
reducing these nonperforming assets to 
more normal levels, and we expect to see 
the majority of these savings in 2012.
Moreover, we were able to reduce 
nonperforming assets without negatively 
impacting net charge-offs as a percentage 

of average loans, which improved by a full 
percentage point to 1.59%, excluding covered 
loans Œ the lowest level in three years. 
Looking forward, we expect total charge-offs 
of approximately 1.3% in the ˜rst quarter of 

2012, excluding covered loans, and expect 

losses to trend lower throughout the year. 
Due to our improved credit performance and 
quality of our recent loan originations, our 
provision for credit losses, excluding covered 
loans, declined $320 million, or 58.9%, for 
the fourth quarter of 2011, compared to 
the fourth quarter of 2010. Continued 
improvement in credit trends should allow 
for lower provisions and signi˜cantly reduced 
credit costs in future quarters, but BB&T will 
remain conservative in our allowance for loan 
and lease losses because of uncertainty about 
the overall economy.
5Revenue Growth through the Cycle
YTD 2011 vs. YTD 2007
Excludes foreclosed property expense and securities gains (losses). Refer to page 17 for additional disclosures.
Adjusted to exclude the impact of large acquisitions for BB&T 
and peers and selected one-time items.
Pre-Tax Pre-Credit Earnings
Consistent Long-Term Earnings Power
2011 Annual Report
Sharing Knowledge for a Brighter Direction
Average loans and leases held for invest-
ment increased by 1.3% compared to 2010, 
accelerating to an annualized growth rate 
of 7.3% in the fourth quarter versus the 
third quarter, or 10.1%, excluding real estate 
development loans and covered and other 
acquired portfolios, which are declining 
by design. The growth was broad-based 
and re˚ects our strategy of increasing 
commercial and industrial and consumer 
loans at a faster pace while reducing 
our exposure to higher risk real estate 
loans. We 
experienced strong growth in 
commercial and industrial loans, direct 
retail, revolving credit, residential mortgages 
and consumer finance. Meanwhile, 
commercial real estate loans decreased by 
15%, consistent with our strategy. The loan 
pipeline remains strong, and we have a more 
optimistic outlook for 2012. 
Strong deposit growth showed our progress 
in diversifying our deposit mix while lowering 
our costs. 
Average noninterest-bearing deposits 
increased by 31.3% in the fourth quarter of 
2011 on an annualized basis compared to 
the third quarter. Average interest-bearing 
deposit costs decreased to 0.56% in the 
fourth quarter, compared to 0.65% in the prior 
quarter. In an uncertain investment climate 
where consumers increasingly have been 
turning to banks for the FDIC insurance 
coverage, we expect continued deposit 
growth in the ˜rst quarter of 2012, albeit 
at a more moderate pace.
BB&T™s fully taxable equivalent net interest 
income totaled $5.7 billion in 2011, a 3.6% 
increase from 2010. Our net interest margin 
is very strong at 4.06% for 2011, versus 
4.03% in 2010, and superior to the average 
of 3.51% for our peers. The net interest 
margin, key to a bank™s profitability, 
is the difference between the interest 
received on loans and investments and 
the interest paid on deposits and other 
funding, expressed as a percentage 
of 
average earning assets. Our margin 
continues to bene˜t from the performance 
of the assets acquired in the Colonial 
transaction, lower funding costs and reduced 
nonperforming assets.
Our noninterest income totaled $3.1 billion 
in 2011, a 21.3% decline from 2010. The 
decrease in part re˚ects the impact of new 
government restrictions on our ability to 
collect debit card income and overdraft fees, 
but primarily re˚ects lower mortgage banking 
income and substantially fewer gains on 
sales of securities in 2011. BB&T™s diversi˜ed 
fee income-producing businesses, which 
represented 39.7% of 2011 total revenues, 
have partly offset that negative impact. For 

example, our growing wealth management 

and trust and investment advisory services 
businesses increased substantially and remain 
a great opportunity for us going forward. 
Our noninterest expense totaled $5.8 billion, 
a 2.3% increase from 2010, partly re˚ecting 
higher foreclosed property expenses due 
to valuation adjustments in connection 
with BB&T™s more aggressive disposition 
of these problem assets. But looking ahead 
to 2012, we expect noninterest expense 
to decline because of lower credit-related 
costs and anticipated savings from our 
expense optimization strategy. 
BB&T™s return on average assets increased 
to .82% in 2011 from .54% in 2010, while 
return on average common shareholders™ 
equity improved to 7.49% from 4.85%. 
Throughout this difficult credit cycle 
and over the long term, BB&T continues 
to outperform our peers. For pre-tax, 
pre-credit cost return on assets Œ which 
we believe is an important measure of 
a company™s earnings power Œ BB&T™s ROA 
in 2011 was 2.37%, compared to 1.82% 
for our peers. Over the last 15 years, the 

compound annual growth rate of our pre-
tax, pre-credit cost earnings is 15% Œ a very 
good achievement. 
Our 2011 results demonstrate that BB&T™s 
underlying fundamentals are strong. More 
important, we believe we will continue 
to show improved returns for our share-
holders as we return to a more normalized 
credit cycle. 
As originally reported 15-year compound annual growth rate 15%
6Shareholder Return
BB&T
S&P Commercial BanksS&P 500 Index
Peer Average
OUR STOCK PERFORMANCE
Our ultimate responsibility is to optimize the 
long-term return to our shareholders, and while 
banks have not performed well in recent years, 
BB&T remains one of the strongest performers 
and best dividend payers in the industry. 
BB&T™s 20-year annualized total return of 
10.3% compares favorably to our peer average 
of 5.6%. A $100 investment in BB&T shares in 
1995 was worth $331 on December 31, 2011, 

signi˜cantly better than the S&P 500 and our 
in-market peers. In 2011 alone, we ranked 
second among our peer group in total return 
to shareholders, which includes net stock price 
change plus the dividends paid during the year.
We recognize we have a special obligation 

to reward our shareholders for their loyalty 

to BB&T. Unlike many companies with large 

majorities of institutional investors, nearly 
half of BB&T shareholders are individuals, 
many of whom have increased their owner-

ship of our company through both up and 

down cycles over many years. 
Our dividend strategy underscores our 
commitment to our shareholders and long-
term view. We have paid a cash dividend 
every year since 1903. Even at the height 
of the ˜nancial-market crisis Œ when many 
banks eliminated or virtually eliminated their 
dividends Œ BB&T was the last major bank 
to reduce our dividend, and we reduced it 
substantially less than our peers. Our dividend 
yield of 2.54% is one of the strongest in the 
banking industry. Still, our reduction to $.15 per 
share in 2009 was my most painful decision as 
CEO because I know any reduction has ˜nancial 
consequences for individual shareholders who 
depend on our dividends. Early in 2011, we 
became the ˜rst of the 19 large stress-tested 
banks to announce an increase in our dividend. 
While the $.04 annual increase and $.01 
special dividend were modest, they re˚ect 
our commitment to provide a dividend payout 
that is among the best in the industry. 
We remain committed to a long-term, robust 
payout strategy. In the fourth quarter of 2011, 
we earned $.55 per diluted common share 
and paid out $.16 per share, or a 29% payout. 
My personal commitment Œ and top priority Œ 
is to increase the earnings of BB&T so we 
can continue to increase the dividend, while 

maintaining the safe and sound investment 

that our shareholders count on. 
As shareholders know too well, 2011 was 
a dif˜cult year for banking industry stocks, 
including BB&T™s. The last decade has 
been dif˜cult for investors in many asset 
classes. Banking stocks in particular have 
been punished during the last three years 
of volatility in ˜nancial markets. In 2011, 
the large bank index fell 25 percent while 
the S&P 500 was slightly up. 
While we share your disappointment about 
these challenges, we ˜rmly believe BB&T 
will lead the industry in restoring investor 
con˜dence as one of the few large ˜nancial 
institutions that remained solidly pro˜table 
during the ˜nancial crisis. As we demonstrate 
broad-based improvement in our credit-quality 
measures, industry analysts are beginning to 
focus on our underlying earnings power, which 
I hope will drive an improved stock price.
OUR CAPITAL STRENGTH
In a sign of BB&T™s strength and stability 
amid uncertainty in the ˜nancial markets, our 
capital levels remain among the strongest in 
the banking industry. As regulators continue to 
introduce new requirements on bank liquidity, 
our capital strength is crucial to providing the 
˜nancial ˚exibility to pursue strategies that are 
in the best interest of our shareholders, including 
continuing our proactive dividend strategy.
Both international and U.S. regulations are 
imposing increasing requirements for bank 
capital Œ the margin by which creditors are 
covered if a bank™s assets are liquidated. Earlier 
this year, the Federal Reserve received our 
submission for the 2012 ﬁstress test,ﬂ which 
is designed to ensure banks meet their capital 
requirements in a challenging economic 
scenario. We are con˜dent BB&T will exceed 
all requirements Œ as we did in 2011.
Our internal capital generation provides 
signi˜cant ˜nancial ˚exibility to deploy our 
capital in ways that support BB&T™s strategy and 
shareholders. Our ˜rst priority is to continue 
BB&T™s strong organic growth, which we believe 
Depicts $100 invested at 12/31/95 and held through 12/31/11 with dividends reinvested in the security or index.
7Source: SNL Financial; as of 12/31/2011
Current Dividend Yield of Stress-Tested Banks
BB&T Among Leaders in Dividend Yield
2011 Annual Report
Sharing Knowledge for a Brighter Direction
is in our shareholder™s best long-term interest. 
Dividends paid to our shareholders rank as 
our second priority, followed by strategic 
acquisitions. Repurchase of BB&T shares is 
a distant fourth option only if the internal 
rate of return is superior to other options. We 
do not expect to issue new common equity 
in order to meet the new capital rules.
At December 31, 2011, our Tier I risk-based 
capital ratio and total risk-based capital ratio 
were 12.5% and 15.7%, respectively. Our Tier I 
common ratio, a measure of tangible capital 
and the ratio that regulators watch most 
closely, was 9.7% compared to 9.1% a year ago. 
OUR KEY STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES 
FOR 2012
As a country and an industry, we still face 
formidable challenges: a sluggish U.S. economy, 
a European debt crisis, excessive regulation, 
intense competition, a poor industry image, 
and more. But there also are plenty of 
opportunities: a return to fundamental, 
community-based banking, an industry 
shakeout of weakened competitors and a more 
normalized credit environment, to name a few.
We believe there are more opportunities than 
challenges for BB&T because we have adhered 
to our long-held values and goals and avoided 
many of the problems that hobbled some of 
our competitors. BB&T is positioned to bene˜t 
from continuing industry consolidation. 
During the ˜nancial crisis, many banks 
were reluctant to sell because their 
share prices were depressed. However, 
we expect consolidation to accelerate as 
managements and boards realize their 
banks may struggle to thrive in a new 
slower-growth environment. The winners 
will be those banks with strong cultures, 
rational strategies, superior processes 
and exceptional executional abilities Œ 
prerequisites for superior revenue and 
earnings per share growth and outstanding 
return on equity. We expect BB&T to be 
among the ˜ve to seven regional banks, 
along with three or four national banks, that 
will dominate the industry in the next ˜ve 

to 10 years.
We also expect the pace of reintermediation 
to pick up as clients who are disenchanted 
with Wall Street ˜nancial institutions and 
nonbank investments return to Main Street 
banks. BB&T, with our community bank 
structure and 140-year history of safety 
and stability, is positioned to bene˜t.
After a quarter-century of over-leveraged 

hyper growth prior to the ˜nancial crisis, 
we expect solid but slower growth between 
2012 and 2015, with real Gross Domestic 
Product growth averaging between 
2.6% and 
3.7% and moderate in˚ation averaging between 
2.1% and 2.4%. In this environment, we believe 
cost control and a laser focus on productivity 

will be crucial in driving overall performance.
BB&T™s long-term strategy for superior, 
balanced performance is centered around 

a client-driven passion for quality service; 
a strong associate value proposition; rational 
risk taking and exceptional risk management; 
superior earnings growth; and targeted and 

consistent investments for the future. 
For 2012, BB&T™s senior management team 
has set ˜ve strategic objectives described 
in the following sections of our annual 
report. While the emphasis may change 
year to year, our ultimate goal is unwavering: 
to maximize returns to our shareholders. 
The key to success, we believe, is creating 

a superior earnings-per-share growth rate 
without sacri˜cing fundamental quality 
and long-term competitiveness, nor taking 
unreasonable risk.
Deliver the BB&T Value Promise, 
thereby creating the Perfect 
 Client Experience
Our fundamental strategy is to provide the best 
value proposition in the marketplace. Value is 
a function of quality relative to the price. At 
BB&T, we focus on providing the best quality 

in the marketplace. Most companies do well 
during good economic climates, but their value 
propositions can falter during tough times. I™m 
proud that BB&T signi˜cantly strengthened 
our value proposition throughout the last four 
dif˜cult years, winning clients from weakened 
competitors in a ﬁ˚ight to quality.ﬂ
8
Industry Leading Client Satisfaction 
Overall Bank Satisfaction
Likelihood to Recommend
From Maritz Research 2011 Retail Client Satisfaction and Loyalty Survey, represents percentage of ﬁtop boxﬂ scores, indicating 
a 9 or 10 rating on a 10-point scale. Peers include BAC, RF, STI and Wachovia.
ﬁHighest in Customer Satisfaction among
Mortgage Servicing Companies,
Two Years in a Row.ﬂ
Branch Banking and Trust received the highest numerical score 
among mortgage servicers in the proprietary J.D. Power and 
Associates 2010-2011 Primary Mortgage Servicer Study
SM
. 2011 
study based on responses from 4,944 consumers measuring 20 
companies and measures the satisfaction of consumers with 
their current mortgage servicer. Proprietary study results are 
based on experiences and perceptions of consumers surveyed in 
April-May 2011. Your experiences may vary. Visit jdpower.com.
Independent surveys of our clients show 
superior client service rankings spanning 
virtually all of BB&T™s lines of business. In 
the annual survey by Maritz Research, we 
again ranked ˜ rst among our in-market 
competitors in overall bank satisfaction 
and likelihood to recommend BB&T and 
patronize BB&T in the future. For the second 
consecutive year, at a time of heightened 
consumer scrutiny about how their home 
mortgages are being handled, BB&T ranked 
highest among primary U.S. mortgage service 
companies in customer service satisfaction. 
That ranking by J.D. Power and Associates 
was based on the responses of nearly 5,000 
homeowners across the country. Our small 
business and middle market groups have 
won 61 excellence awards Œ more than any 
U.S. bank Œ over the last three years from 
Greenwich Associates, a leading global 
˜ nancial services research and consulting 
˜ rm. BB&T also was recognized for industry-
leading service in small business lending, 
wealth management, mobile banking, 401(k) 
retirement plan sponsorship, insurance 
services, sales ˜ nance, capital markets equity 
research and tax-free bond management.
An indispensable part of our value proposition 
is BB&T™s training, which has earned an 
excellent rating by 
Training
 magazine for nine 
consecutive years. And central to our training 
is our emphasis on delivering a Perfect 
Client Experience Œ service that is reliable, 
responsive, empathetic and competent. As 
part of that Perfect Client Experience, we share 
BB&T™s 140 years of ˜ nancial knowledge 
that, in turn, empowers our clients to achieve 
economic success and ˜ nancial security.
Particularly during these uncertain economic 
times, the deep and enduring relationships 
we form with our clients are crucial to 
both our success and our clients™ ˜ nancial 
well-being. Unfortunately, the value of 
these banking relationships has been too 
easily discounted or even dismissed in 
recent years as banks have unfairly borne 
the brunt of blame for the ˜ nancial credit 
crisis. We believe it™s important for banks 
like BB&T to reaf˜ rm the value of having 
a relationship to help our clients meet their 
˜ nancial goals. For example, a national 
news reporter recently wrote about her 
experience living without a bank for only 
one month. In addition to the hassle of 
trying to pay bills and handle other routine 
transactions without a checking account, 
credit and debit cards or direct-deposited 
paychecks, the reporter was charged $93 
in fees during the month for money orders, 
paycheck-cashing services and the like. In 
contrast, to use one example, BB&T™s Bright 
Banking checking accounts include check 
cards with cash rewards, online banking, 
account updates and statements Œ for $10 
a month, or free if clients meet minimum 
requirements. We believe we provide great 
products and services at a great price Œ the 
BB&T value advantage. 
Ensure a strong associate 
value proposition
Central to BB&T™s success are associates who 
feel valued and engaged in their work. That 
has never been more evident than now, when 
many of our competitors have resorted to 
extensive layoffs and cuts in bene˜ ts to restore 
pro˜ tability. The results have been predictable: 
frightened associates who understandably sit 
around worrying about their own futures rather 
than focusing on the needs of their clients. 
In contrast, throughout the ˜ nancial crisis, BB&T 
has continued to give raises and 
maintained 
its full associate bene˜ ts program, 
including 
an extensive health and wellness program 
and a retirement program offering both a 
pension and an employer-matched 401(k) 
plan. Our strategies focus on all facets of 
associates™ well-being: career, ˜ nancial, physical, 
community and social. In a recent anonymous 
company survey of our associates, 90 percent 
said they were proud to work at BB&T Œ 
a 
sign of exceptional associate engagement, 
according to the third-party survey company. 
We continue to make substantial investments 
in associate education to create a knowledge-
based learning organization. To successfully 
operate our decentralized structure of 36 
community banks, we know we must have 
highly trained associates who understand 
BB&T™s philosophy Œ and are ﬁmastersﬂ of 
their areas of responsibility, whether they 
are computer operators, tellers, lenders 
or ˜ nancial consultants.
For Stephen and Maxine Phillips, the relationship with BB&T is built on trust, with a personal touch. 
In 1914, Stephen™s grandfather opened a crab processing plant along Maryland™s Chesapeake 
Bay, followed by his parents™ expansion with Phillips popular seafood restaurants throughout 
the Eastern Seaboard. The BB&T relationship started over a decade ago with a family investment 
account referred by a BB&T banker who once worked on the restaurant wait staff. Maxine Phillips, 
a former teacher, praised the BB&T Wealth team™s focus on education, including an informative 
forum in Charleston, S.C., which offered women personalized and pragmatic investment insight. 
Most recently, BB&T won a commercial loan to ˜nance the relocation of Phillips™ restaurant in 
Baltimore™s Inner Harbor. Sales doubled within two months of the restaurant™s opening. ﬁDuring 
these dif˜cult years in the economy, BB&T™s constant communication gave our family a sense 
 
of security and showed BB&T understands the unique challenges facing entrepreneurial businesses,ﬂ 
says Stephen Phillips, President and CEO of Phillips Foods and Seafood Restaurants, Inc. 
Brannon Fitch, BB&T
 
Regional Corporate Banker
Martin Radinsky, BB&T 
 
Senior Vice President, 
 
Senior Trust Manager
Stephen Phillips, CEO, 
 
Phillips Foods Inc.
Maxine Phillips, 
 
Vice President,
 
Phillips Foods Inc.
Elizabeth Andes Brown, 
 
BB&T Senior Vice President, 
 
Wealth Team Director
ﬁBB&T™s wealth program provides 
a great environment to learn and 
share investment strategies with 
other women and families.ﬂ
Maxine Phillips
ﬁ
For a family business, it is very 
important to have that level of 
trust and transparency that we 
enjoy in our relationship with BB&T.ﬂ
Stephen Phillips
10
In our rapidly changing and unpredictable 
world, companies and individuals also need 
a clear set of values to guide their actions. 
As a values-driven organization, BB&T 
encourages and trains our associates to have 
a strong sense of purpose, a high level of 
self-esteem and the capacity to think clearly 
and logically. We believe that is the essence 
of BB&T™s competitive advantage: associates 
who turn rational ideas into action that, 
in turn, accomplishes our mission.
BB&T™s values form the foundation of the 
way we do business. We frame our values 
around character, judgment, success and 
happiness. We start with character because it 
is based in honesty and integrity. We cannot 
fool ourselves about the facts. Honesty 
and integrity are requisites for trusting 
relationships. People of good character Œ who 
think in terms of facts and reality Œ also tend 
to exercise good judgment. And if we have 
good character and good judgment, we more 
than likely will be successful. 
What I™ve discovered after almost 40 years at 
BB&T is that the biggest challenge is helping 
our associates ˜nd a sense of happiness. 
Material success Œ a bigger house, a bigger 
car Œ does not always lead to happiness. Of 
course, as a company we cannot guarantee 
associates™ happiness. However, we can help 
them draw a sense of self-esteem and pride 
from their work Œ and see that their efforts 
help our clients achieve ˜nancial security 
for themselves and their families, especially 
in times of economic distress.
I™m especially proud of how our associates 
responded throughout 2011 to help the 
communities we serve. When tornadoes 
ravaged parts of north Alabama, BB&T and our 
associates donated money, supplies, blood and, 
most importantly, time to help communities 
recover and rebuild. Through our Lighthouse 
Project, over the last three years, our associates 
have volunteered 150,000 hours and completed 
more than 3,200 projects in 25 states, making 
a difference in the lives of more than 5 million 
people during dif˜cult economic times.
Achieve superior revenue growth
BB&T consistently invests in revenue growth 
because we believe it ultimately is the most 
important long-term driver of earnings growth. 
While many of our peers have suffered absolute
declines in revenue during these dif˜cult 
economic times, we have focused on diversi˜ed 
growth in both our core banking operations 
and fee-income businesses. Between 2007 
and year-end 2011, BB&T™s organic revenue 
grew 12%, while the median growth rate for 
our peers was 1.3%.
We believe diversi˜cation in revenue sources 
is a key to our success. BB&T™s business 
model is balanced approximately 50-50 
between retail and commercial banking. 
Our 36 community banks, concentrated 
in the economically diverse Southeast and 
Mid-Atlantic, generated 54% of our revenue 
in 2011. BB&T basically operates as a large 
local bank, serving local clients that our local 
bankers know well. At the same time, we 
have diversi˜ed our balance sheet by building 
a diverse mix of national-scale businesses 
with attractive growth prospects.
We also have seized opportunities for new 
or expanded revenue sources. For example, 
at a time when several major corporate 
banking lenders downsized or disappeared, 
BB&T bankers have been winning clients by 
knocking on the doors of middle-market 
companies that are seeking a new lender. As 
large banks that previously dominated the 
mortgage market pulled back while recovering 
from the ˜nancial crisis, BB&T gained market 
share in our mortgage-origination business, 
an important source of fee income.
Our overall loan growth has exceeded growth 
in the still-sluggish economy, signaling that 
we continue to win market share. As we 
have continued to control our exposure in 
real estate, we have aggressively increased 
lending efforts in less-volatile commercial and 
industrial loans and targeted growing segments 
such as specialized lending, large corporate, 
direct retail and mortgage production. We also 
are rapidly expanding other promising growth 
businesses such as wealth and focusing our 
Financial Center leaders 
on the important 
small business segment.
BB&T is committed to promoting ˜nancial literacy 
among young people in our communities. Our 
partnership with the Financial Services Roundtable 
and EverFi, a web-based ˜nancial literacy 
curriculum, provides college scholarships and 
teaches high school students about the responsible 
use of credit and other lessons in ˜nance.
Supporting Our Communities
BB&T™s reputation as a reliable and responsive lender already is attracting fans and business in the 
Texas oil˜elds. In February 2011, after establishing a presence in Texas with the Colonial acquisition, 
BB&T formed an energy-lending team based in Houston to meet the needs of the booming and 
capital-intensive oil and gas sector. ﬁPeople in this business value long-term relationships from banks 
they can count on to provide the capital they need to meet their capital expenditure objectives,ﬂ says 
Jeff Forbis, Energy Group manager of BB&T Capital Markets. Jeff, who like his teammates joined BB&T 
after years of experience in the energy industry, promptly approached Tim Dunn, CEO of CrownRock 
LP in Midland, Texas, offering BB&T participation in a lending group with other banks. ﬁI didn™t know 
BB&T until Jeff showed up on my doorstep,ﬂ says Tim, ﬁbut I™ve known and trusted Jeff for more than 
20 years. The more he told me about BB&T, the more I liked it.ﬂ In addition to the Energy Group, BB&T 
offers extensive energy insurance capabilities in Houston through its insurance subsidiary, McGriff, 
Seibels & Williams Inc.
Bobby Floyd , President,
 
CrownRock LP
Tim Dunn, CEO, 
 
CrownRock LP
Jeff Forbis, BB&T 
 
Senior Vice President, 
 
Energy Group Manager
Parul June, BB&T 
 
Assistant Vice President, 
Energy Group
ﬁBB&T is a stable, grass-roots 
bank that makes money the 
old-fashioned way, by investing 
in the community. That™s the kind 
of business we are too.ﬂ
Tim Dunn, CEO of CrownRock LP, which plans 
 
to drill about 150 wells at a cost of $300 million 
this year in west Texas™ rich Permian Basin.
12BB&T Insurance Services, which contributes 
12% of our revenue as the nation™s sixth-largest 
insurance broker, outpaced industry growth in 
a recovering market and expanded its reach 
with three acquisitions in 2011: Precept Group 
and Liberty Bene˜t Insurance Services, leading 
associate-bene˜ts ˜rms based in California 
that provide the platforms needed to deal 
with rapid changes in healthcare reform, and 
Atlantic Risk Management Corporation, a 
commercial property, casualty and associate-
bene˜ts broker in Columbia, Maryland. These 
investments were further augmented by 
our ˜rst quarter 2012 planned acquisition of 
Crump Life Insurance Services and Crump 
Property & Casualty Insurance Services. 
This deal is a great strategic acquisition that 

also exceeds all of our merger criteria. We 

are diversifying our insurance revenues and 
pro˜ts by becoming the largest wholesale 
provider of life insurance in the country. The 
transaction is expected to grow our revenues 
by $300 million in the ˜rst full year after 

the combination. 
On the deposit side, we are reducing our cost 
structure by deliberately not pursuing more 
expensive time deposits while focusing on non-
interest-bearing deposits, which increased 
16.2% in 2011. Growth in Bright Banking and 
other checking accounts are helping offset 

fee-income losses affecting the industry as 

a result of regulatory restrictions on debit 

card income and overdraft fees. 
As part of BB&T™s commitment to multi-
cultural markets, we are reaching out to the 
fast-growing Hispanic market with more than 
260 multicultural banking centers in ethnic 
communities and a Spanish-language website 
(www.bbtvecino.com) and client support line 
(1-800-BANK-BBT). Our Supplier Diversity 

Program creates opportunities for certi˜ed 

diverse suppliers to bid for BB&T services.
Organic growth and strategic acquisitions
BB&T™s 140-year history is ˜lled with steady 
organic expansion combined with selective 
strategic acquisitions Œ both essential to our 
revenue growth.
Any acquisition must meet three key 
criteria we insist on for acquisitions: they 
must be strategically compelling, avoid 
material asset risk, and be accretive to 

our shareholders. Last November we 
announced plans to acquire BankAtlantic, 
one of Florida™s largest independent banks 
with $3.3 billion in deposits. 
BankAtlantic
would bolster our presence in the greater 
Miami area, adding 78 branches and moving 
us to No. 6 from 
No. 14 in market share in 
an area rich in core, 
low-cost deposits. BB&T 
also would acquire $2.1 billion in loans. As of 
this writing, the BankAtlantic transaction has 
been enjoined by a Delaware judge. While 
the ultimate outcome of our proposed 
acquisition is uncertain, I am hopeful that 
we can ˜nd a workable solution and move 

forward with the deal.
We are also building on our 2009 acquisition 
of Colonial Bank in Texas, with plans to open 

branches in four cities Œ Austin, Fort Worth, 
Frisco and San Antonio. At the same time, 
we have expanded our lending to the state™s 
booming oil-and-gas industry with a new 
energy team based in Houston. While we are 
just getting started in the large Texas market, 
BB&T™s balanced growth strategy has paid off 
in our core banking states, with deposit market 
shares that rank in the top ˜ve among banks 
in each state except Tennessee and Maryland, 
where we rank No. 6 and 7, respectively. 
In 2012, we plan to open 30 de novo branches, 
predominantly in areas where we have less 
dense coverage, including Texas, Florida and 
Maryland. We will continue to be alert for 
bank acquisition opportunities that meet our 
strict criteria as well as non-bank purchases 

that expand our related ˜nancial businesses. 

For BB&T, the optimum size of transactions 

includes banks with between $3 billion and 
$15 billion in assets. Looking ahead, we 
anticipate an attractive acquisition market 
for BB&T and other well-capitalized banks 
as we continue to demonstrate our ˜nancial 
strength Œ and as competitors think more 
strategically about their futures and recognize 
that BB&T would be an ideal partner to help 

navigate a changing banking world.
Continue balance sheet diversi˜cation 
and risk management strategies
The ˜nancial crisis reaf˜rmed two funda-
mental imperatives to be successful in 
banking. First, banks need to meticulously 
and methodically aggregate, integrate and 
correlate risk information. The failure to do 
so was an underlying cause of the subprime 
mortgage ˜asco. Basically, nobody knew 
the extent of exposure to faulty mortgages 
that were packaged and sent to investors 
around the world. Second, diversi˜cation 
and prudence in leverage are important 
in banking, as in most businesses. The big 
investment banks and other ˜nancial ˜rms 
that faltered or failed when the subprime 

crisis mushroomed into a global ˜nancial 

meltdown had too much debt, too much 
leverage and too much concentration. 
They focused only on what was the most 

pro˜table and then over-leveraged. 
Rational risk-taking long has been central to 
BB&T™s values, just as we have been diligent 
about diversi˜cation. But the challenging 
environment of the last four years has been 
no time for complacency, and thus we have 
put even greater emphasis on exceptional 
risk management and diversifying our 
revenue stream, our asset base and 
our geographic structure.
We also are continually improving the infra-
structure of our established risk management 
organization. Since the crisis, we have 
created an independent Credit Risk Review 
function within BB&T™s Enterprise Risk 
Management unit, providing analytical tools 
for commercial and consumer credit and 
operations risk. We have many more credit 
scoring screens to ˜nd, for example, details 
about ˜rst mortgages so we are better 
able to provide second-lien home equity 
products to clients who will continue to 
have real cash equity in the transaction. We 
avoid exposure to complex, unknown risk 

and strictly adhere to our portfolio limits. 
Thanks to the diligence of our loan workout 
team, we have substantially reduced 
problem assets, partly by proactive and 
preventive early identi˜cation of problems 
On the road with BB&T™s Bank Bus
BB&T™s Bank Bus brings ˜nancial education to where our clients work, live, learn, play and pray. Staffed by BB&T associates, 
the bus serves as a community resource center equipped with computers to obtain credit report information, open accounts 
at BBT.com and provide information on subjects such as money management, home ownership and credit management. 
During the summer, the bus goes to camp, where hundreds of students learn the importance of building good credit habits 
at the North Carolina Bankers Association™s Camp Challenge. During the school year, the bus can be found on high school 
and college campuses, where BB&T bankers help with checking and savings accounts and web-based ˜nancial education 
programs in English and Spanish. Between January and April, community volunteers use the bus to offer free, bilingual 
 
tax-preparation services at churches and community centers in low- and moderate-income areas throughout BB&T™s 
banking franchise. And when natural disaster strikes, as it did last year when tornadoes devastated parts of Alabama, 
 
the bus becomes a mobile relief site and Internet café where displaced people pick up water supplies, send emails, follow up 
on insurance claims, use the on-board ATM, and more.
14Strong Ef˜ciency Ratio
Delivering all Components of Pro˜tability
BB&T
Peer Average
The ef˜ciency ratio re˚ects the cost to produce each dollar 
of revenue, expressed as a percentage, i.e. lower percentages 
represent more ef˜cient operations.
Excludes securities gains (losses), foreclosed property 
expense, amortization of intangible assets, merger-related 
and restructuring charges, the impacts of FDIC loss share 
accounting, and other selected items. Refer to page 17 for 
additional disclosures.
Peers include CMA, FITB, HBAN, KEY, MTB, PNC, RF, STI, USB 
and ZION. 
Source: SNL and Company Reports
Broad-based Loan Growth
Average Loans Held for Investment
Excludes loans held for sale.
and relentless collection of early-stage, 
past-due loans. 
The true test of a bank™s risk management 
is during challenging times. BB&T has 
outperformed our peers in key credit quality 
metrics over the last four years. At year-end 
2011, BB&T™s measure of nonperforming 
loans as a percentage of total loans was 
1.68%, compared to an average of 2.13% 
for our peers. 
Our broad-based revenue growth attests 
to the diversi˜cation and growth of BB&T™s 

balance sheet. In 2011, 54% of our revenue 
came from our community bank, 12% from 
insurance services, 12% from ˜nancial 
services, 8% from specialized lending, 7% 
from residential mortgage banking, and 
7% from dealer ˜nancial services. That 
diverse revenue stream is essential to 
providing more predictable earnings and 
returns for our shareholders. At the same 
time, changing the mix of our deposits 
has increased our comfort in meeting 
the liquidity requirements of the Basel III 
standards. Diversi˜cation of our markets 
also has helped BB&T perform dramatically 
better over the last four years, when the 
relative steadiness of more moderate-
growth markets such as Kentucky and 
West Virginia helped offset the volatility 
of markets such as Atlanta, Miami and 
Washington, D.C.
Optimize expense structure
In the slow-growth economic environment 
that we expect, banks and all companies 
must relentlessly control expenses. But unlike 
some competitors that are simply slashing 
expenses across the board, at BB&T we 
believe a much more comprehensive analysis 
is needed to determine how to optimize 
both the expense and revenue sides of 
our business. 
In 2011, we began a wide-ranging ﬁre-
conceptualization projectﬂ to determine 
how we need to rebuild our businesses for 

optimal performance in a demanding new 
˜nancial landscape. We have challenged each 
of BB&T™s leaders to essentially start with a 

clean sheet of paper and design better and 

more ef˜cient ways to run their businesses. 
They will present their cost-saving and 
revenue-enhancement ideas for approval 
to an executive management-led committee 
by the end of the ˜rst quarter in 2012, 
with changes to be implemented in 2012 
and 2013.
I assure you this project will not result in a 
report that sits on a shelf, gathering dust. It 

will be a working blueprint to put BB&T on 
a constant evolutionary track to become 
more and more ef˜cient. Our challenge 
is clearly evident in our ef˜ciency ratio Œ 
which measures expenses as a percentage 
of revenues, so lower percentages re˚ect 
improved performance. BB&T™s ef˜ciency 
ratio of 55.2% in 2011, while up from 53.9% 
in 2010, continues to outperform the 63.3% 
average ratio of our peers. In addition, some 
of our expenses will decline as credit costs 
continue to shrink. But other costs, particularly 
expensive regulatory requirements, will 
not go away. Over the last five years, 
noninterest expenses have grown faster than 
noninterest income for the banking industry, 
including BB&T. That situation is clearly not 

sustainable long-term.
The good news is that our associates 
are engaged and enthusiastic about 
this project. Clearly, those closest to our 
businesses and clients know better than I or 
other senior leaders what needs to change. 
With their commitment, I am optimistic 

that BB&T will optimize our businesses in 
ways that bene˜t our clients, communities 
and shareholders. Banking companies 
that recognize the imperative of doing 
so will be the winners in a transformed 
banking world.
15THANK YOU
In closing, I want to express my deepest 
appreciation to J. Holmes Morrison, who 
retired as a member of our corporate board 
of directors as of December 31, 2011, 
after reaching our mandatory retirement 
age of 70. For the last 11 years as a board 
member, Holmes has made enormous 
contributions to BB&T™s success through 
his extensive experience in the ˜nancial 
services industry and risk management. 
I welcome his continued counsel.
I also want to welcome Edwin H. Welch to 
the corporate board. I™ve admired Ed over 
the last 18 years through his service as 
a member of the West Virginia Advisory 
Committee of Branch Banking and Trust 
Company, BB&T™s principal subsidiary. He 
has been president of the University of 
Charleston since 1989 and led this West 
Virginia institution through unprecedented 
growth, doubling full-time student 
enrollment, rede˜ning the university™s 
mission and transforming its academic 
program. Ed also is an ordained minister in 
the United Methodist Church and served 
in the executive of˜ce of the President at 
the White House in the administrations 
of Presidents Kennedy, Johnson and 
Nixon. His vast knowledge of economics, 
political science and education will enhance 
the diverse perspectives among our 
board members.
In addition to Holmes and Ed, we are 
fortunate to have corporate and bank board 
members who are deeply committed to our 
long-term optimum performance.
I also want to thank my colleagues on our 
very talented executive leadership team for 

their incredible commitment and guidance 

during these last few challenging years. We 

have an average of 29 years of experience 
with BB&T, and have worked closely together 
for most of our careers. I am equally indebted 
to BB&T™s more than 31,000 associates 
serving our clients in nearly 1,800 Southeast 
and Mid-Atlantic branches and throughout 

the country.
Despite remaining economic and industry 
challenges, BB&T is solidly and uniquely 
positioned for a prosperous future. Our 
community banking model produces the 
absolute best value proposition in the market. 
Our diversi˜ed, stable business mix is resilient 
in all operating environments. Our markets 
are among the fastest growing in the country. 
We have the best team in banking and train 

them very effectively. And although we are 
entering new markets, we have never lost 
sight of who we are, what we stand for and 

who we serve. 
We are committed to restoring the public™s 
trust in bankers in general, through our 
continued honorable work helping our 
shareholders, clients, communities and 
associates achieve economic success 
and ˜nancial security. 
With a 140-year heritage of commitment 
to our vision, mission and values, and your 
continuing support, I have no doubt that 
BB&T™s best days are ahead.
Kelly S. King
Chairman and Chief Executive Of˜cer

February 27, 2012
Return on Average Tangible Common Equity vs. Peers
Superior Returns on Tangible Equity
BB&T
Peer Average
Peers include: CMA, FITB, HBAN, KEY, MTB, PNC, RF, STI, USB 
and ZIONS. Refer to page 17 for additional disclosures.
Source: SNL and Company Reports
Driving Growth in Lower Cost Deposits
Average Deposits
2011 Annual Report
Sharing Knowledge for a Brighter Direction
16
CORPORATE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
STANDING
C. Leon Wilson III
Senior Executive Vice 
President and Operations 
Division Manager
 
SEATED
Donna C. Goodrich
Senior Executive Vice 
 
President and Deposit 
 
Services Manager
 
Daryl N. Bible
Senior Executive Vice 
President and 
Chief Financial Officer
 
Christopher L. Henson
Chief Operating Officer
Kelly S. King 
Chairman and
 
Chief Executive Officer
Clarke R. Starnes III
Senior Executive Vice 
 
President and Chief 
 
Risk Officer
Steven B. Wiggs 
Senior Executive Vice 
President
 
and Chief 
 
Marketing Officer
 and 
 
Lending Group Manager
Ricky K. Brown
Senior Executive Vice 
President and 
President,  
Community 
Banking
Robert E. Greene 
Senior Executive Vice 
 
President and Administrative 
Group
 Manager
 
Barbara F. Duck 
Senior Executive Vice 
President and 
Enterprise  
Risk
 Manager
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT
John A. Allison IV
Distinguished Professor
of Practice
Wake Forest University
Retired Chairman and
Chief Executive Of˜cer
BB&T Corporation
Winston-Salem, N.C. 
Jennifer S. Banner
Chief Executive Of˜cer
Schaad Companies LLC 
 
and President and CEO
 
SchaadSource LLC
Knoxville, Tenn.
K. David Boyer, Jr.
Chief Executive Of˜cer
GlobalWatch Technologies, Inc.
Oakton, Va.
Anna R. Cablik
President
Anasteel & Supply Company, 
 
LLC and Anatek, Inc.
Marietta, Ga.
Ronald E. Deal 
Chairman 
Wesley Hall, Inc.
Hickory, N.C.
J. Littleton Glover, Jr.
President and 
Chief Executive Of˜cer
Batson-Cook Development Co.
Attorney
Glover & Davis, P.A.
Newnan, Ga.
Jane P. Helm 
Retired Vice Chancellor 
 
of Business Affairs
Appalachian State University
Arden, N.C. 
John P. Howe III, M.D.
President and 
 
Chief Executive Of˜cer
Project HOPE 
(Health Opportunities 
for People Everywhere)
Washington, D.C.
Kelly S. King
Chairman and 
 
Chief Executive Of˜cer
BB&T Corporation
Winston-Salem, N.C.
Valeria Lynch Lee
Chief Executive Of˜cer
Applied Behavioral Concepts 
 
for Families, LLC
Rocky Mount, N.C.
Nido R. Qubein
President
High Point University
Chairman
Great Harvest Bread Co.
High Point, N.C.
Thomas E. Skains
Chairman, 
President and 
Chief Executive Of˜cer
Piedmont Natural 
Gas Company, Inc.
Charlotte, N.C. 
Thomas N. Thompson 
President
Thompson Homes, Inc.
Representative
Kentucky House 
 
of Representatives
Owensboro, Ky.
Edwin H. Welch, Ph.D.
President
University of Charleston
Charleston, W.Va.
Stephen T. Williams 
President and 
Chief Executive Of˜cer
WilcoHess, LLC 
President
A.T. Williams Oil Co.
Winston-Salem, N.C.
UNITEDSTATES
SECURITIESANDEXCHANGECOMMISSION
Washington,D.C.20549
FORM10-K
AnnualReportPursuanttoSection13or15(d)
oftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934
Forthefiscalyearended:
December31,2011
CommissionFileNumber:1-10853
BB&TCORPORATION
(ExactnameofRegistrantasspecifiedinitsCharter)
NorthCarolina56-0939887
(StateofIncorporation)(I.R.S.EmployerIdentificationNo.)
200WestSecondStreet
Winston-Salem,NorthCarolina27101
(Addressofprincipalexecutiveoffices)(ZipCode)
(336)733-2000
(Registrant’stelephonenumber,includingareacode)
SecuritiesRegisteredPursuanttoSection12(b)oftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934:
Titleofeachclass
Nameofeachexchange
onwhichregistered
CommonStock,$5parvalueNewYorkStockExchange
IndicatebycheckmarkiftheRegistrantisawell-knownseasonedissuer,asdefinedinRule405oftheSecurities
Act.YES
ÍNO‘IndicatebycheckmarkiftheRegistrantisnotrequiredtofilereportspursuanttoSection13orSection15(d)ofthe
ActYES
‘NOÍIndicatebycheckmarkwhethertheRegistrant(1)hasfiledallreportsrequiredtobefiledbySection13or15(d)ofthe
SecuritiesExchangeActof1934duringthepreceding12months(orforsuchshorterperiodthattheRegistrantwasrequiredtofile

suchreports),and(2)hasbeensubjecttosuchfilingrequirementsforthepast90days.YES
ÍNO‘IndicatebycheckmarkwhethertheRegistranthassubmittedelectronicallyandpostedonitscorporateWebsite,if
any,everyInteractiveDataFilerequiredtobesubmittedandpostedpursuanttoRule405ofRegulationS-T(§232.405of

thischapter)duringthepreceding12months(orforsuchshorterperiodthattheRegistrantwasrequiredtosubmitand

postsuchfiles).Yes
ÍNo‘IndicatebycheckmarkifdisclosureofdelinquentfilerspursuanttoItem405ofRegulationS-Kisnotcontained
herein,andwillnotbecontained,tothebestofRegistrant’sknowledge,indefinitiveproxyorinformationstatements

incorporatedbyreferencesinPartIIIofthisForm10-KoranyamendmenttothisForm10-K.
ÍIndicatebycheckmarkwhethertheRegistrantisalargeacceleratedfiler,anacceleratedfiler,anon-acceleratedfiler,
orasmallerreportingcompany.Seethedefinitionsof“largeacceleratedfiler,”“acceleratedfiler”and“smallerreporting

company”inRule12b-2oftheExchangeAct.
Largeacceleratedfiler
ÍAcceleratedfiler
‘Non-acceleratedfiler
‘(Donotcheckifasmallerreportingcompany)Smallerreportingcompany
‘IndicatebycheckmarkwhethertheRegistrantisashellcompany(asdefinedinRule12b-2ofthe
Act).YES
‘NOÍAtJanuary31,2012,theCorporationhad697,228,764sharesofitsCommonStock,$5parvalue,outstanding.The
aggregatemarketvalueofvotingstockheldbynonaffiliatesoftheCorporationisapproximately$18.6billion(basedon

theclosingpriceofsuchstockasofJune30,2011).
BB&TCORPORATION
CrossReferenceIndex
December31,2011
PageNo.
PARTI
Item1Business
5Item1ARiskFactors
19Item1BUnresolvedStaffComments-(Nonetobereported.)

Item2Properties
26Item3LegalProceedings(seeNote15.CommitmentsandContingencies)134

Item4MineSafetyDisclosures-(Notapplicable.)
PARTII
Item5MarketforRegistrant’sCommonEquity,RelatedStockholderMattersandIssuerPurchasesof
EquitySecurities
26Item6SelectedFinancialData30
Item7Management’sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations31

Item7AQuantitativeandQualitativeDisclosuresAboutMarketRisk(seeMarketRiskManagement)76

Item8FinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData
ConsolidatedBalanceSheets88

ConsolidatedStatementsofIncome89

ConsolidatedStatementsofChangesinShareholders’Equity90

ConsolidatedStatementsofCashFlows91

NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements92

ReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm87

QuarterlyFinancialSummary85
Item9ChangesinandDisagreementsWithAccountantsonAccountingandFinancialDisclosure-
(Nonetobereported)
Item9AControlsandProcedures86

Item9BOtherInformation-(Nonetobereported)
PARTIII
Item10Directors,ExecutiveOfficersandCorporateGovernance*

Item11ExecutiveCompensation*

Item12SecurityOwnershipofCertainBeneficialOwnersandManagementandRelatedStockholder
Matters*Item13CertainRelationshipsandRelatedTransactions,andDirectorIndependence*
Item14PrincipalAccountingFeesandServices*
PARTIV
Item15Exhibits,FinancialStatementSchedules
FinancialStatements-(seeListinginItem8above)

Exhibits
FinancialStatementSchedules-(Nonerequired)
2*Forinformationregardingexecutiveofficers,referto“ExecutiveOfficersofBB&T”inPartI.Theother
informationrequiredbyItem10isincorporatedhereinbyreferencetotheinformationthatappears

undertheheadings“Proposal1-ElectionofDirectors”,“CorporateGovernanceMatters”and“Section

16(a)BeneficialOwnershipReportingCompliance”intheRegistrant’sProxyStatementforthe2012

AnnualMeetingofShareholders.
TheinformationrequiredbyItem11isincorporatedhereinbyreferencetotheinformationthatappears
undertheheadings“CompensationDiscussionandAnalysis”,“CompensationofExecutiveOfficers”,

“CompensationCommitteeReportonExecutiveCompensation”,“CompensationCommitteeInterlocks

andInsiderParticipation”,and“CompensationofDirectors”intheRegistrant’sProxyStatementforthe

2012AnnualMeetingofShareholders.
Forinformationregardingtheregistrant’ssecuritiesauthorizedforissuanceunderequitycompensation
plans,referto“EquityCompensationPlanInformation”inPartII.
TheotherinformationrequiredbyItem12isincorporatedhereinbyreferencetotheinformationthat
appearsundertheheadings“SecurityOwnership”and“CompensationofExecutiveOfficers”inthe

Registrant’sProxyStatementforthe2012AnnualMeetingofShareholders.
TheinformationrequiredbyItem13isincorporatedhereinbyreferencetotheinformationthatappears
undertheheadings“CorporateGovernanceMatters”and“TransactionswithExecutiveOfficersand

Directors”intheRegistrant’sProxyStatementforthe2012AnnualMeetingofShareholders.
TheinformationrequiredbyItem14isincorporatedhereinbyreferencetotheinformationthatappears
undertheheadings“FeestoAuditors”and“CorporateGovernanceMatters”intheRegistrant’sProxy

Statementforthe2012AnnualMeetingofShareholders.
3Forward-LookingStatements
ThisAnnualReportonForm10-Kcontains“forward-lookingstatements”withinthemeaningofthePrivateSecurities
LitigationReformActof1995,regardingthefinancialcondition,resultsofoperations,businessplansandthefuture

performanceofBB&TthatarebasedonthebeliefsandassumptionsofthemanagementofBB&Tandtheinformation

availabletomanagementatthetimethatthesedisclosureswereprepared.Wordssuchas“anticipates,”“believes,”

“estimates,”“expects,”“forecasts,”“intends,”“plans,”“projects,”“may,”“will,”“should,”andothersimilarexpressions

areintendedtoidentifytheseforward-lookingstatements.Suchstatementsaresubjecttofactorsthatcouldcauseactual

resultstodiffermateriallyfromanticipatedresults.Suchfactorsinclude,butarenotlimitedto,thefollowing:
•generaleconomicorbusinessconditions,eithernationallyorregionally,maybelessfavorablethanexpected,
resultingin,amongotherthings,adeteriorationincreditqualityand/orareduceddemandforcreditorother

services;•disruptionstothecreditandfinancialmarkets,eithernationallyorglobally,includingtheimpactofadowngrade
ofU.S.governmentobligationsbyoneofthecreditratingsagenciesandtheadverseeffectsoftheongoing

sovereigndebtcrisisinEurope;
•changesintheinterestrateenvironmentmayreducenetinterestmarginsand/orthevolumesandvaluesofloans
madeorheldaswellasthevalueofotherfinancialassetsheld;
•competitivepressuresamongdepositoryandotherfinancialinstitutionsmayincreasesignificantly;

•legislative,regulatoryoraccountingchanges,includingchangesresultingfromtheadoptionandimplementation
oftheDodd-FrankWallStreetReformandConsumerProtectionActof2010(the“Dodd-FrankAct”),may

adverselyaffectthebusinessesinwhichBB&Tisengaged;
•local,stateorfederaltaxingauthoritiesmaytaketaxpositionsthatareadversetoBB&T;

•reductioninBB&T’screditratings;

•adversechangesmayoccurinthesecuritiesmarkets;

•competitorsofBB&Tmayhavegreaterfinancialresourcesanddevelopproductsthatenablethemtocompete
moresuccessfullythanBB&TandmaybesubjecttodifferentregulatorystandardsthanBB&T;
•costsordifficultiesrelatedtotheintegrationofthebusinessesofBB&Tanditsmergerpartnersmaybegreater
thanexpected;
•unpredictablenaturalorotherdisasterscouldhaveanadverseeffectonBB&Tinthatsucheventscould
materiallydisruptBB&T’soperationsortheabilityorwillingnessofBB&T’scustomerstoaccessthefinancial

servicesBB&Toffers;
•expectedcostsavingsassociatedwithcompletedmergersandacquisitionsmaynotbefullyrealizedorrealized
withintheexpectedtimeframes;and
•depositattrition,customerlossand/orrevenuelossfollowingcompletedmergersandacquisitionsmaybegreater
thanexpected.
4ITEM1.BUSINESS
BB&TCorporation(“BB&T”,“theCompany”,“theCorporation”or“theParentCompany”),isafinancialholding
companyheadquarteredinWinston-Salem,NorthCarolina.BB&Tconductsitsbusinessoperationsprimarilythroughits

commercialbanksubsidiary,BranchBankingandTrustCompany(“BranchBank”),whichhasofficesinNorthCarolina,

Virginia,Florida,Georgia,Maryland,SouthCarolina,Alabama,WestVirginia,Kentucky,Tennessee,Texas,Washington

D.CandIndiana.Inaddition,BB&T’soperationsconsistofafederallycharteredthriftinstitution,BB&TFinancial,FSB

(“BB&TFSB”),andseveralnonbanksubsidiaries,whichofferfinancialservicesproducts.
OperatingSubsidiaries
AtDecember31,2011,theprincipaloperatingsubsidiariesofBB&Tincludedthefollowing:
•BranchBankingandTrustCompany,Winston-Salem,NorthCarolina

•BB&TFinancial,FSB,Columbus,Georgia

•Scott&Stringfellow,LLC,Richmond,Virginia

•ClearviewCorrespondentServices,LLC,Richmond,Virginia

•RegionalAcceptanceCorporation,Greenville,NorthCarolina

•AmericanCoastalInsuranceCompany,Davie,Florida

•SterlingCapitalManagement,LLC,Charlotte,NorthCarolina
BranchBank,BB&T’slargestsubsidiary,wascharteredin1872andistheoldestbankheadquarteredinNorthCarolina.
BranchBankprovidesawiderangeofbankingandtrustservicesforretailandcommercialclientsinitsgeographic

markets,includingsmallandmid-sizebusinesses,publicagencies,localgovernmentsandindividuals,through1,779

offices(asofDecember31,2011)locatedinNorthCarolina,Virginia,Florida,Georgia,Maryland,SouthCarolina,

Alabama,WestVirginia,Kentucky,Tennessee,Texas,WashingtonD.C.andIndiana.BranchBank’sprincipaloperating

subsidiariesinclude:
•BB&TEquipmentFinanceCorporation,basedinCharlotte,NorthCarolina,whichprovidesloanandlease
financingtocommercialandsmallbusinesses;
•BB&TInvestmentServices,Inc.,aregisteredbroker-dealerlocatedinCharlotte,NorthCarolina,whichoffers
clientsnon-depositinvestmentalternatives,includingdiscountbrokerageservices,equities,fixed-rate,

variable-rateandindexannuities,mutualfunds,governmentandmunicipalbonds,andmoneymarketfunds;
•BB&TInsuranceServices,Inc.,headquarteredinRaleigh,NorthCarolina,whichofferspropertyandcasualty,
life,health,employeebenefits,commercialgeneralliability,surety,titleandotherinsuranceproductsthroughits

agencynetwork;
•Stanley,Hunt,DuPree&Rhine(adivisionofBranchBank)withdualheadquartersinGreensboro,North
Carolina,andGreenville,SouthCarolina,whichoffersflexiblebenefitplans,andinvestmentadvisory,actuarial

andbenefitconsultingservices;
•PrimeRatePremiumFinanceCorporation,Inc.,locatedinFlorence,SouthCarolina,anditssubsidiaryAFCO
CreditCorporation,headquarteredinPittsburgh,Pennsylvania,whichprovideinsurancepremiumfinancingto

clientsintheUnitedStatesandCanada;
•GrandbridgeRealEstateCapital,LLC,basedinCharlotte,NorthCarolina,whichspecializesinarrangingand
servicingcommercialmortgageloans;
•LendmarkFinancialServices,Inc.,locatedinCovington,Georgia,whichoffersalternativeconsumerloansto
clientsunabletomeetBranchBank’snormalcreditunderwritingguidelines;
•CRCInsuranceServices,Inc.,basedinBirmingham,Alabama,whichisawholesaleinsurancebrokerauthorized
todobusinessnationwide;and
5•McGriff,Seibels&Williams,Inc.,basedinBirmingham,Alabama,whichisauthorizedtodobusiness
nationwideandspecializesinprovidinginsuranceproductsonanagencybasistolargecommercialandenergy

clients,includingmanyFortune500companies.
BB&TFSBisafederalsavingsbank.BB&TFSBprovidesservicestoclientsthroughouttheUnitedStatesandwas
formedtohelpimprovetheoperatingefficiencyofcertainbusinessactivitiesforsubsidiarieswhicharenationalinscope.

Inadditiontocreditcardlending,thefollowingbusinessesoperateaseithersubsidiariesordivisionsofBB&TFSB:
•SheffieldFinancial(adivisionofBB&TFSB),basedinClemmons,NorthCarolina,whichspecializesinloansto
smallcommerciallawncarebusinessesacrossthecountryforthepurchaseofoutdoorpowerequipmentand

loanstoindividualsforpowersportandleisureequipment;and
•MidAmericaGiftCertificateCompany,whichspecializesintheissuanceandsaleofretailgiftcardsthrougha
nationwidenetworkofauthorizedagents.
MajorNonbankSubsidiaries
BB&Talsohasanumberofnonbanksubsidiaries,including:
•Scott&Stringfellow,LLC,whichisaregisteredinvestmentbankingandfull-servicebrokeragefirmthat
providesservicesinretailbrokerage,equityanddebtunderwriting,investmentadvice,corporatefinanceand

equityresearch;andfacilitatestheorigination,tradinganddistributionoffixed-incomesecuritiesandequity

productsinboththepublicandprivatecapitalmarkets.Italsohasapublicfinancedepartmentthatprovides

investmentbanking,financialadvisoryservicesanddebtunderwritingservicestoavarietyofregionaltaxable

andtax-exemptissuers.Scott&Stringfellow’sinvestmentbankingandcorporateandpublicfinanceareas

conductbusinessasBB&TCapitalMarkets;
•ClearviewCorrespondentServices,LLCisabroker-dealerprovidingcorrespondentclearingservicestoother
broker-dealersandentitiesinvolvedinthesecuritiesindustry.Asacorrespondentclearingfirm,itprovides

clearingservicestoaffiliatedandunaffiliatedbroker-dealers;
•RegionalAcceptanceCorporation,whichspecializesinindirectfinancingforconsumerpurchasesofprimarily
mid-modelandlate-modelusedautomobiles;
•AmericanCoastalInsuranceCompany,anadmittedFloridaspecialtyinsurancecompanythatunderwrites
propertyinsurancerisksforcommercialcondominiumorcooperativeassociations;and
•SterlingCapitalManagement,LLC,aregisteredinvestmentadvisorandtheadvisortotheSterlingCapital
ManagementFundsandSterlingCapitalVariableInsuranceFunds,providestailoredinvestmentmanagement

solutionstomeetthespecificneedsandobjectivesofindividualandinstitutionalclientsthroughafullrangeof

investmentstrategies,includingdomesticandinternationalequity,alternativeinvestmentproductsandstrategies,

andfixedincomeinvesting.
ServicesBB&T’ssubsidiariesofferavarietyofservicestargetedtoretailandcommercialclients.BB&T’sobjectiveistooffer
clientsafullarrayofproductstomeetalltheirfinancialneeds.
6RetailServices:CommercialServices:
AutomobilelendingAssetmanagement

BankcardlendingAssociationservices

ConsumerfinanceCapitalmarketsservices

HomeequitylendingCommercialdepositservices

HomemortgagelendingCommercialfinance

InsuranceCommercialmiddlemarketlending

InvestmentbrokerageservicesCommercialmortgagelending

Mobile/onlinebankingInstitutionaltrustservices

PaymentsolutionsInsurance

RetaildepositservicesInsurancepremiumfinance

SalesfinanceInternationalbankingservices

SmallbusinesslendingLeasing

Wealthmanagement/privatebankingMerchantservices
Mortgagewarehouselending

Paymentsolutions

Realestatelending

Supplychainmanagement

Venturecapital
ThefollowingtablereflectsBB&T’sdepositmarketshareandbranchlocationsbystate.
Table1
BB&TDepositMarketShareandBranchLocationsbyState
%of
BB&T’sDeposits(2)
Deposit
MarketShareRank(2)
NumberofBranches(3)
NorthCarolina(1)23%2nd365
Virginia214th387

Florida135th268

Georgia115th167

Maryland77th129

SouthCarolina73rd116

Alabama54th87

WestVirginia51st78

Kentucky44th88

Tennessee36th56

Texas141st24

Washington,D.C.17th12
(1)Excludeshomeofficedeposits.

(2)Source:FDIC.gov—dataasofJune30,2011.

(3)AsofDecember31,2011.Excludes2branchesinIndiana.
CompetitionThefinancialservicesindustryishighlycompetitiveanddramaticchangecontinuestooccurinallaspectsofthe
Company’sbusiness.Theabilityofnonbankfinancialentitiestoprovideservicespreviouslyreservedforcommercial

bankshasintensifiedcompetition.BB&T’ssubsidiariescompeteactivelywithnational,regionalandlocalfinancial

servicesproviders,includingbanks,thrifts,securitiesdealers,mortgagebankers,financecompaniesandinsurance

companies.Competitionamongprovidersoffinancialproductsandservicescontinuestoincrease,withconsumershaving

theopportunitytoselectfromagrowingvarietyoftraditionalandnontraditionalalternatives.Theindustrycontinuesto

consolidate,whichaffectscompetitionbyeliminatingsomeregionalandlocalinstitutions,whilestrengtheningthe

franchisesofacquirers.Inaddition,somefinancialservicesentitiesarestillexperiencingsignificantchallengesasaresult
7oftheeconomiccrisis,resultinginbankandthriftfailures.Foradditionalinformationconcerningmarkets,BB&T’s
competitivepositionandbusinessstrategies,andrecentgovernmentinterventionssee“MarketArea”and“General

BusinessDevelopment”below.
MarketArea
BB&T’sprimarymarketareaforitsbankingoperationsconsistsofNorthandSouthCarolina,Virginia,Maryland,
Georgia,easternTennessee,WestVirginia,Kentucky,Florida,AlabamaandWashington,D.C.Inaddition,BB&Thasa

smallerbankingpresenceinTexasandIndiana.TheColonialacquisitionfacilitatedBB&T’sentryintotheTexasmarket.

ThemarketsthatBB&Toperatesinhaveadiverseemploymentbaseandprimarilyconsistofmanufacturing,general

services,agricultural,wholesale/retailtrade,technology,governmentandfinancialservices.Managementstrongly

believesthatBB&T’scommunitybankapproachtoprovidingclientserviceisacompetitiveadvantagethatstrengthens

theCorporation’sabilitytoeffectivelyprovidefinancialproductsandservicestobusinessesandindividualsinitsmarkets.

Furthermore,BB&Tbelievesitscurrentmarketareawillsupportgrowthinassetsanddepositsinthefuture.
GeneralBusinessDevelopment
BB&Tisaregionalfinancialholdingcompany.BB&Thasmaintainedalong-termfocusonastrategythatincludes
expandinganddiversifyingtheBB&Tfranchiseintermsofrevenues,profitabilityandassetsize.Thisstrategyhas

encompassedbothorganicgrowthandacquisitionsofcomplementarybanksandfinancialbusinesses.Duringthe1990’s

andthroughthemid-2000’s,BB&T’sgrowthresultedlargelyfrommergersandacquisitionsastheeconomicsofbusiness

combinationswerecompelling.Sincethattime,BB&Thasfocusedmoreonorganicgrowth,butiswellpositionedfor

strategicopportunities.
MergerandAcquisitionStrategy
BB&T’sgrowthinbusiness,profitabilityandmarketsharehashistoricallybeenenhancedbystrategicmergersand
acquisitions.Managementintendstoremaindisciplinedandfocusedwithregardtofuturemergerandacquisition

opportunities.BB&Twillcontinuetoassessbankandthriftacquisitionssubjecttomarketconditions,primarilywithin

BB&T’sexistingfootprint,andwillpursueeconomicallyadvantageousacquisitionsofinsuranceagencies,specialized

lendingbusinesses,andfeeincomegeneratingfinancialservicesbusinesses.BB&T’sstrategyiscurrentlyfocusedon

meetingthefollowingthreeacquisitioncriteria:
•transactionsmustbestrategicallyattractive–meaningthatanybankacquisitionshouldbeinBB&T’sexisting
footprinttoallowforcostsavingsandeconomiesofscale,orincontiguousstatestoprovidemarket

diversification;•anycredit-relatedissueswouldneedtobeaddressed;and

•acquisitionsmustmeetBB&T’sfinancialcriteria–earningspershareshouldbeaccretiveinYear1,excluding
merger-relatedcharges,butincludingfullrunratesynergies;theinternalrateofreturnshouldexceed15%,and

thetransactionshouldbeaccretivetotangiblebookvalueorhaveareasonableearn-backperiod.
RegulatoryConsiderations
Thefollowingdiscussiondescribeselementsofanextensiveregulatoryframeworkapplicabletobankholdingcompanies,
financialholdingcompaniesandbanksandspecificinformationaboutBB&Tanditssubsidiaries.Regulationofbanks,

bankholdingcompaniesandfinancialholdingcompaniesisintendedprimarilyfortheprotectionofdepositorsandthe

DepositInsuranceFund(the“DIF”)ratherthanfortheprotectionofshareholdersandcreditors.Asdescribedinmore

detailbelow,comprehensivereformofthelegislativeandregulatorylandscapeoccurredwiththepassageofthe

Dodd-FrankWallStreetReformandConsumerProtectionAct(the“Dodd-FrankAct”)in2010.Implementationofthe

Dodd-FrankAct,andrulemakingactivities,continuedin2011.Inadditiontobankinglaws,regulationsandregulatory

agencies,BB&Tanditssubsidiariesandaffiliatesaresubjecttovariousotherlaws,regulations,supervisionand

examinationbyotherregulatoryagencies,allofwhichdirectlyorindirectlyaffecttheoperationsandmanagementof

BB&Tanditsabilitytomakedistributionstoshareholders.
BB&Tanditssubsidiaries’earningsareaffectedbygeneraleconomicconditions,managementpolicies,changesinstate
andfederallawsandregulationsandactionsofvariousregulatoryauthorities,includingthosereferredtointhissection.

ProposalstochangethelawsandregulationstowhichBB&Tanditssubsidiariesaresubjectarefrequentlyintroducedat
8boththefederalandstatelevels.Thelikelihoodandtimingofanysuchchangesandtheimpactsuchchangesmayhaveon
BB&Tanditssubsidiariesareimpossibletodeterminewithanycertainty.Thedescriptionhereinsummarizesthe

significantstateandfederallawstowhichBB&Tanditssubsidiariescurrentlyaresubject.Totheextentstatutoryor

regulatoryprovisionsaredescribedinthissection,suchdescriptionsarequalifiedintheirentiretybyreferencetothe

particularstatutoryorregulatoryprovisions.
FinancialRegulatoryReform
OnJuly21,2010,PresidentObamasignedtheDodd-FrankActintolaw.TheDodd-FrankActisextensive,complicated
andcomprehensivelegislationthatimpactspracticallyallaspectsofabankingorganization,representingasignificant

overhaulofmanyaspectsoftheregulationofthefinancialservicesindustry.TheDodd-FrankActimplementsnumerous

andfar-reachingchangesthataffectfinancialcompanies,includingbanksandbankholdingcompaniessuchasBB&T,by,

amongotherthings:
•Requiringregulationandoversightoflarge,systemicallyimportantfinancialinstitutionsbyestablishingan
interagencycouncilonsystemicriskandimplementationofheightenedprudentialstandardsandregulationbythe

BoardofGovernorsoftheFederalReserveSystem(the“FederalReserve”)forsystemicallyimportantfinancial

institutions(includingnonbankfinancialcompanies),aswellastheimplementationoftheFederalDeposit

InsuranceCorporation(the“FDIC”)resolutionproceduresforliquidationoflargefinancialcompaniestoavoid

marketdisruption;
•applyingthesameleverageandrisk-basedcapitalrequirementsthatapplytoinsureddepositoryinstitutionsto
mostbankholdingcompanies,savingsandloanholdingcompaniesandsystemicallyimportantnonbankfinancial

companies;•limitingtheFederalReserve’semergencyauthoritytolendtonondepositoryinstitutionstofacilitieswith
broad-basedeligibility,andauthorizingtheFDICtoestablishanemergencyfinancialstabilizationfundfor

solventdepositoryinstitutionsandtheirholdingcompanies,subjecttotheapprovalofCongress,theSecretaryof

theUnitedStatesDepartmentoftheTreasury(the“U.S.Treasury”)andtheFederalReserve;
•centralizingresponsibilityforconsumerfinancialprotectionbycreatinganewindependentagency,the
ConsumerFinancialProtectionBureau(“CFPB”),withresponsibilityforimplementing,enforcingandexamining

forcompliancewithfederalconsumerfinanciallaws;
•creatingregimesforregulationofover-the-counterderivativesandnon-admittedpropertyandcasualtyinsurers
andreinsurers;
•requiringanyinterchangetransactionfeechargedforadebittransactionbe“reasonable”andproportionaltothe
costincurredbytheissuerforthetransaction,withnewregulationsthatestablishsuchfeestandards,eliminate

exclusivityarrangementsbetweenissuersandnetworksfordebitcardtransactionsandlimitrestrictionson

merchantdiscountingforuseofcertainpaymentformsandminimumormaximumamountthresholdsasa

conditionforacceptanceofcreditcards;
•transferringthefunctionsoftheOfficeofThriftSupervision(“OTS”)relatingtofederalsavingsassociations,
includingrulemakingauthority,totheComptrolleroftheCurrency(“OCC”);
•implementingregulationofhedgefundandprivateequityadvisersbyrequiringsuchadviserstoregisterwiththe
SEC;•providingfortheimplementationofcertaincorporategovernanceprovisionsforallpubliccompaniesconcerning
executivecompensation;
•increasingtheFDIC’sdepositinsurancelimitspermanentlyto$250,000fornon-transactionaccounts,providing
forunlimitedFederaldepositinsuranceonnoninterestbearingdemandtransactionaccountsatallinsured

depositoryinstitutionseffectiveDecember31,2010throughDecember31,2012andchangingtheassessment

baseaswellasincreasingthereserveratiofortheDIFtoensurethefuturestrengthoftheDIF;and
•reformingregulationofcreditratingagencies.
WhiletheDodd-FrankActbecamelawonJuly22,2010,manyprovisionsdidnotbecomeeffectiveuntilJanuary21,
2011andmanyoftheprovisionsrequireadditionalrulemakingandfurtherstudiesforimplementation.Regulationsfor

manykeyprovisionsoftheDodd-FrankActhavenotyetbeenpromulgatedbytheapplicablefederalregulators.BB&T
9willcontinuetoevaluatetheimpactofanynewregulationssopromulgated,includingchangesinregulatorycostsand
fees,modificationstoconsumerproductsordisclosuresrequiredbytheCFPBandtherequirementsoftheenhanced

supervisionprovisions,amongothers.
DuetoBB&T’ssize,undercurrentguidelinesissuedbytheFinancialStabilityOversightCouncil(the“Council”)created
bytheDodd-FrankAct,BB&Twouldbedesignatedas“systemicallysignificant”tothefinancialhealthoftheU.S.

economyand,asaresult,willbesubjecttoadditionalregulationsbytheCouncil.Ingeneral,theCouncilregulatesthe

systemicriskofthefinancialsystem.
InSeptember2011,theFDICadoptedrulesimplementing“livingwill”requirementsforsystemicallysignificantfinancial
institutions.Theserequirementsimposeobligationsonsystemicallysignificantfinancialinstitutionstofile,maintainand

updateplansforaninstitution’srapidandorderlyresolutionintheeventofitsmaterialfinancialdistressorfailure.Both

theFederalReserveandtheFDICmustreviewandapproveBB&T’slivingwillandareauthorizedtoimposerestrictions

onBB&T’sgrowthandactivitiesoroperationsifdeemednecessary.
Asabankholdingcompanyandafinancialholdingcompanyunderfederallaw,BB&Tissubjecttoregulationunderthe
BankHoldingCompanyActof1956,asamended,(the“BHCA”)andtheexaminationandreportingrequirementsofthe

FederalReserve.BranchBankandBB&TFSBarecollectivelyreferredtohereinasthe“Banks.”BranchBank,a

state-charteredcommercialbank,issubjecttoregulation,supervisionandexaminationbytheNorthCarolina

CommissionerofBanks.BB&TFSB,afederallycharteredthriftinstitution,issubjecttoregulation,supervisionand

examinationbytheOCC.EachoftheBanksalsoissubjecttoregulation,supervisionandexaminationbytheFDIC.
StateandfederallawgoverntheactivitiesinwhichtheBanksengage,theinvestmentstheymakeandtheaggregate
amountofloansthatmaybegrantedtooneborrower,althoughBB&TFSBisentitledtofederalpreemptionofvarious

statelaws.VariousconsumerandcompliancelawsandregulationsalsoaffecttheBanks’operations.TheBanksalsoare

affectedbytheactionsoftheFederalReserveasitattemptstocontrolthemonetarysupplyandcreditavailabilityinorder

toinfluencetheeconomy.
Inadditiontofederalandstatebankinglawsandregulations,BB&Tandcertainofitssubsidiariesandaffiliates,including
thosethatengageinsecuritiesunderwriting,dealing,brokerage,investmentadvisoryandinsuranceactivities,aresubject

tootherfederalandstatelawsandregulations,andsupervisionandexaminationbyotherstateandfederalregulatory

agenciesandotherregulatoryauthorities,includingtheSEC,theFinancialIndustryRegulatoryAuthority(“FINRA”),the

NYSEEuronext,Inc.(the“NYSE”),andvariousstateinsuranceandsecuritiesregulators.
FinancialHoldingCompanyRegulation
Undercurrentfederallaw,abankholdingcompany,suchasBB&T,mayelecttobecomeafinancialholdingcompany,
whichallowstheholdingcompanytooffercustomersvirtuallyanytypeofservicethatisfinancialinnatureorincidental

thereto,includingbankingandactivitiescloselyrelatedthereto,securitiesunderwriting,insurance(bothunderwritingand

agency)andmerchantbanking.Inordertobecomeandmaintainitsstatusasafinancialholdingcompany,afinancial

holdingcompanyandallofitsaffiliateddepositoryinstitutionsmustbewell-capitalized,well-managed,andhaveatleast

asatisfactoryCommunityReinvestmentActof1977(“CRA”)rating.IftheFederalReservedeterminesthatafinancial

holdingcompanyisnotwell-capitalizedorwell-managed,thecompanyhasaperiodoftimetocomeintocompliance,but

duringtheperiodofnoncompliance,theFederalReservecanplaceanylimitationsonthefinancialholdingcompanythat

itbelievestobeappropriate.Furthermore,iftheFederalReservedeterminesthatafinancialholdingcompanyhasnot

maintainedasatisfactoryCRArating,thecompanywillnotbeabletocommenceanynewfinancialactivitiesoracquirea

companythatengagesinsuchactivities,althoughthecompanywillstillbeallowedtoengageinactivitiescloselyrelated

tobankingandmakeinvestmentsintheordinarycourseofconductingmerchantbankingactivities.BB&Tbecamea

financialholdingcompanyonJune14,2000,andcurrentlysatisfiestherequirementstomaintainitsstatusasafinancial

holdingcompany.
Mostofthefinancialactivitiesthatarepermissibleforfinancialholdingcompaniesalsoarepermissiblefora“financial
subsidiary”ofoneormoreoftheBanks,exceptforinsuranceunderwriting,insurancecompanyportfolioinvestments,real

estateinvestmentsanddevelopment,andmerchantbanking,whichmustbeconductedinafinancialholdingcompany.In

orderforthesefinancialactivitiestobeengagedinbyafinancialsubsidiaryofabank,federallawrequirestheparent

bank(anditssister-bankaffiliates)tobewell-capitalizedandwell-managed;theaggregateconsolidatedassetsofallof
10thatbank’sfinancialsubsidiariesmaynotexceedthelesserof45%ofitsconsolidatedtotalassetsor$50billion;thebank
musthaveatleastasatisfactoryCRArating;and,ifthatbankisoneofthe100largestnationalbanks,itmustmeetcertain

financialratingorothercomparablerequirements.
CurrentfederallawalsoestablishesasystemoffunctionalregulationunderwhichtheFederalReserveistheumbrella
regulatorforbankholdingcompanies,butbankholdingcompanyaffiliatesaretobeprincipallyregulatedbyfunctional

regulatorssuchastheFDICforstatenonmemberbankaffiliates,theOCCforthrifts,theSECforsecuritiesaffiliatesand

stateinsuranceregulatorsforinsuranceaffiliates.Certainspecificactivities,includingtraditionalbanktrustandfiduciary

activitiesmaybeconductedinthebankwithoutthebankbeingdeemeda“broker”ora“dealer”insecuritiesforpurposes

offunctionalregulation.Althoughthestatesgenerallymustregulatebankinsuranceactivitiesinanondiscriminatory

manner,thestatesmaycontinuetoadoptandenforcerulesthatspecificallyregulatebankinsuranceactivitiesincertain

identifiableareas.
TheDodd-FrankActestablishesadditionalregulationforbankholdingcompanies,whichwillgenerallyapplytoBB&T.
TheCouncilisrequiredundertheDodd-FrankActtomonitoremergingriskstofinancialstability,recommendheightened

prudentialstandardsforlarge,interconnectedfinancialcompaniesandrequirecertainnonbankfinancialcompaniestobe

supervisedbytheFederalReserveiftheiractivitiesaredeterminedtoposearisktofinancialstability.
TheDodd-FrankActalsoimposesnewprudentialregulationondepositoryinstitutionsandtheirholdingcompanies.The
lawimposesnew,morestringentstandardsandrequirementswithrespectto(1)bankandnonbankacquisitionsand

mergers,(2)financialholdingcompaniesengagedin“financialactivities,”(3)affiliatetransactionsand(4)proprietary

trading,amongotherprovisions.
OfficeoftheComptrolleroftheCurrencyRegulation
Asafederallycharteredthrift,BB&TFSBissubjecttoregulation,supervisionandexaminationbytheOCC.BB&TFSB
waspreviouslysubjecttoregulation,supervisionandexaminationbytheOTS,untiltheOTSbecameapartoftheOCC

onJuly21,2011,undertheDodd-FrankAct.AlthoughtheDodd-FrankActpreservesfederalthriftcharters,theOCC

appointedanewDeputyComptrollerwhowillberesponsibleforsupervisingandexaminingfederalsavingsassociations.

TheDodd-FrankActalsoeliminatesthepreemptionofstateconsumerprotectionlawsasappliedtotheoperating

subsidiariesoffederallycharteredthrifts,whichmaycauseBB&TFSBtofurtherreconsideritsexistingorganizational

structureandoperationsinthefuture.
AcquisitionsBB&Tcomplieswithnumerouslawsrelatedtoitsacquisitionactivity.UndertheBHCA,abankholdingcompanymay
notdirectlyorindirectlyacquireownershiporcontrolofmorethan5%ofthevotingsharesorsubstantiallyallofthe

assetsofanybankholdingcompanyorbankormergeorconsolidatewithanotherbankholdingcompanywithoutthe

priorapprovaloftheFederalReserve.Currentfederallawauthorizesinterstateacquisitionsofbanksandbankholding

companieswithoutgeographiclimitation.Furthermore,abankheadquarteredinonestateisauthorizedtomergewitha

bankheadquarteredinanotherstate,subjecttoanystaterequirementthatthetargetbankshallhavebeeninexistenceand

operatingforaminimumperiodoftime,nottoexceedfiveyears;andsubjecttocertaindepositmarket-sharelimitations.

Afterabankhasestablishedbranchesinastatethroughaninterstatemergertransaction,thebankmayestablishand

acquireadditionalbranchesatanylocationinthestatewhereabankheadquarteredinthatstatecouldhaveestablishedor

acquiredbranchesunderapplicablefederalorstatelaw.Theseregulatoryconsiderationsareapplicabletoprivately

negotiatedacquisitiontransactions.
OtherSafetyandSoundnessRegulations
TheFederalReservehasenforcementpowersoverbankholdingcompaniesandtheirnonbankingsubsidiaries.The
FederalReservehasauthoritytoprohibitactivitiesthatrepresentunsafeorunsoundpracticesorconstituteviolationsof

law,rule,regulation,administrativeorderorwrittenagreementwithafederalregulator.Thesepowersmaybeexercised

throughtheissuanceofceaseanddesistorders,civilmoneypenaltiesorotheractions.
Therealsoareanumberofobligationsandrestrictionsimposedonbankholdingcompaniesandtheirdepository
institutionsubsidiariesbyfederallawandregulatorypolicythataredesignedtoreducepotentiallossexposuretothe

depositorsofsuchdepositoryinstitutionsandtotheFDICinsurancefundintheeventthedepositoryinstitutionis
11insolventorisindangerofbecominginsolvent.Forexample,underrequirementsoftheFederalReservewithrespectto
bankholdingcompanyoperations,abankholdingcompanyisrequiredtoserveasasourceoffinancialstrengthtoits

subsidiarydepositoryinstitutionsandtocommitfinancialresourcestosupportsuchinstitutionsincircumstanceswhereit

mightnotdosootherwise.Inaddition,the“cross-guarantee”provisionsoffederallawrequireinsureddepository

institutionsundercommoncontroltoreimbursetheFDICforanylosssufferedorreasonablyanticipatedbytheDIFasa

resultoftheinsolvencyofcommonlycontrolledinsureddepositoryinstitutionsorforanyassistanceprovidedbythe

FDICtocommonlycontrolledinsureddepositoryinstitutionsindangeroffailure.TheFDICmaydeclinetoenforcethe

cross-guaranteeprovisionifitdeterminesthatawaiverisinthebestinterestsoftheDIF.TheFDIC’sclaimfor

reimbursementunderthecross-guaranteeprovisionsissuperiortoclaimsofshareholdersoftheinsureddepository

institutionoritsholdingcompanybutissubordinatetoclaimsofdepositors,securedcreditorsandnonaffiliatedholdersof

subordinateddebtofthecommonlycontrolledinsureddepositoryinstitution.
FederalandstatebankingregulatorsalsohavebroadenforcementpowersovertheBanks,includingthepowertoimpose
finesandothercivilandcriminalpenalties,andtoappointaconservator(withtheapprovaloftheGovernorinthecaseof

aNorthCarolinastatebank)inordertoconservetheassetsofanysuchinstitutionforthebenefitofdepositorsandother

creditors.TheNorthCarolinaCommissionerofBanksalsohastheauthoritytotakepossessionofaNorthCarolinastate

bankincertaincircumstances,including,amongotherthings,whenitappearsthatsuchbankhasviolateditscharteror

anyapplicablelaws,isconductingitsbusinessinanunauthorizedorunsafemanner,isinanunsafeorunsoundcondition

totransactitsbusinessorhasanimpairmentofitscapitalstock.
PaymentofDividends;CapitalRequirements
BB&TCorporationisalegalentityseparateanddistinctfromtheBanksanditssubsidiaries.ThemajorityofBB&T’s
revenueisfromdividendspaidtoBB&TbyBranchBank.TheBanksaresubjecttolawsandregulationsthatlimitthe

amountofdividendstheycanpay.Inaddition,BB&TandtheBanksaresubjecttovariousregulatoryrestrictionsrelating

tothepaymentofdividends,includingrequirementstomaintaincapitalatoraboveregulatoryminimums,andtoremain

“well-capitalized”underthepromptcorrectiveactionregulationssummarizedelsewhereinthissection.Federalbanking

regulatorshaveindicatedthatbankingorganizationsshouldgenerallypaydividendsonlyif(1)theorganization’snet

incomeavailabletocommonshareholdersoverthepastyearhasbeensufficienttofullyfundthedividendsand(2)the

prospectiverateofearningsretentionappearsconsistentwiththeorganization’scapitalneeds,assetqualityandoverall

financialcondition.InNovember2010,theFederalReservereleasedadditionalguidancere-emphasizingtheFederal

Reserve’sexpectationsconcerningtheprocessesthatfirmsthatparticipatedintheSupervisoryCapitalAssessment

Program(“SCAP”),likeBB&T,shouldhaveinplacetoensurethattheyholdadequatecapitalunderadverseconditionsto

maintainreadyaccesstofunding.AnyrequestbyabankholdingcompanysubjecttoSCAP,suchasBB&T,toincrease

dividendsoncommonstock,reinstateorincreaserepurchaseprogramsormakeothercapitaldistributionswillbe

evaluatedbasedontheFederalReserve’sassessmentofcapitaladequacy.
InNovember2011,theFederalReserveissuedafinalrulerequiringbankholdingcompanieswith$50billionormorein
totalconsolidatedassets,includingBB&T,tosubmitannualcapitalplansbasedonpre-definedstressscenariosandto

obtainregulatoryapprovalbeforemakingcapitaldistributions,includingdividendpaymentsandpurchasingcapital

securities.ThisreviewisknownastheComprehensiveCapitalAnalysisandReview(“CCAR”).Theregulatoryprocess

includesmanagement’sproposalstoundertakecapitalactionsin2012undervariouseconomicscenarios,suchas

increasingdividendpaymentsorissuingorrepurchasingcommonorpreferredsecurities.BB&Tsubmitteditsfirstsuch

planinadvanceoftheJanuary9,2012deadline.BB&T’s2012capitalactionswilldependontheresultsoftheCCAR

process.NorthCarolinalawstatesthat,subjecttocertaincapitalrequirements,theboardofdirectorsofabankcharteredunderthe
lawsofNorthCarolinamaydeclareadividendofasmuchofthatbank’sundividedprofitsasthedirectorsdeem

appropriate.Eachofthefederalbankingagencies,includingtheFederalReserve,theFDICandtheOCC,hasissuedsubstantially
similarrisk-basedandleveragecapitalguidelinesapplicabletobankingorganizationstheysupervise,includingbank

holdingcompaniesandbanks.Undertherisk-basedcapitalrequirements,BB&TandtheBanksareeachgenerally

requiredtomaintainaminimumratiooftotalcapitaltorisk-weightedassets(includingcertainoff-balancesheetactivities,

suchasstandbylettersofcredit)of8%.Atleasthalfofthetotalcapitalmustbecomposedofcommonshareholders’

equityexcludingtheover-orunderfundedstatusofpostretirementbenefitobligations,unrealizedgainsorlossesondebt
12securitiesavailableforsale,unrealizedgainsonequitysecuritiesavailableforsaleandunrealizedgainsorlossesoncash
flowhedges,netofdeferredincometaxes;pluscertainmandatorilyredeemablecapitalsecurities;lessnonqualifying

intangibleassetsnetofapplicabledeferredincometaxesandcertainnonfinancialequityinvestments.Thisiscalled“Tier

1capital.”Theremaindermayconsistofqualifyingsubordinateddebt,certainhybridcapitalinstruments,qualifying

preferredstockandalimitedamountoftheallowanceforcreditlosses.Thisiscalled“Tier2capital.”Tier1capitaland

Tier2capitalcombinedarereferredtoastotalregulatorycapital.
TheFederalReserverequiresbankholdingcompaniesthatengageintradingactivitiestoadjusttheirrisk-basedcapital
ratiostotakeintoconsiderationmarketrisksthatmayresultfrommovementsinmarketpricesofcoveredtrading

positionsintradingaccounts,orfromforeignexchangeorcommoditypositions,whetherornotintradingaccounts,

includingchangesininterestrates,equityprices,foreignexchangeratesorcommodityprices.Anycapitalrequiredtobe

maintainedundertheseprovisionsmayconsistof“Tier3capital”consistingofformsofshort-termsubordinateddebt.
Eachofthefederalbankregulatoryagencies,includingtheFederalReserve,theFDICandtheOCC,alsohasestablished
minimumleveragecapitalrequirementsforbankingorganizations.Theserequirementsprovidethatbankingorganizations

thatmeetcertaincriteria,includingexcellentassetquality,highliquidity,lowinterestrateexposureandgoodearnings,

andthathavereceivedthehighestregulatoryratingmustmaintainaratioofTier1capitaltototaladjustedaverageassets

ofatleast3%.Institutionsnotmeetingthesecriteria,aswellasinstitutionswithsupervisory,financialoroperational

weaknesses,areexpectedtomaintainaminimumTier1capitaltototaladjustedaverageassetsratioatleast100basis

pointsabovethatstatedminimum.Holdingcompaniesexperiencinginternalgrowthormakingacquisitionsareexpected

tomaintainstrongcapitalpositionssubstantiallyabovetheminimumsupervisorylevelswithoutsignificantrelianceon

intangibleassets.TheFederalReservealsocontinuestoconsidera“tangibleTier1capitalleverageratio”(deductingall

intangibles)andotherindicatorsofcapitalstrengthinevaluatingproposalsforexpansionornewactivity.
Inaddition,theFederalReserve,theFDICandtheOCCallhaveadoptedrisk-basedcapitalstandardsthatexplicitly
identifyconcentrationsofcreditriskandtheriskarisingfromnon-traditionalactivities,aswellasaninstitution’sability

tomanagetheserisks,asimportantfactorstobetakenintoaccountbyeachagencyinassessinganinstitution’soverall

capitaladequacy.Thecapitalguidelinesalsoprovidethataninstitution’sexposuretoadeclineintheeconomicvalueof

itscapitalduetochangesininterestratesbeconsideredbytheagencyasafactorinevaluatingabankingorganization’s

capitaladequacy.Theagenciesalsorequirebanksandbankholdingcompaniestoadjusttheirregulatorycapitaltotake

intoconsiderationtheriskassociatedwithcertainrecourseobligations,directcreditsubsidies,residualinterestandother

positionsinsecuritizedtransactionsthatexposebankingorganizationstocreditrisk.
AspartoftheDodd-FrankAct,provisionswereaddedthatrequirefederalbankingagenciestodevelopcapital
requirementsthataddresssystemicallyriskyactivities.Theeffectofthesecapitalruleswilldisallowtrustpreferred

securitiesfromcountingasTier1capitalattheholdingcompanylevelforentitieswithgreaterthan$15billioninassets

withathree-yearphase-inperiodbeginningonJanuary1,2013.
Inaddition,in2010,theGroupofGovernorsandHeadsofSupervisorsoftheBaselCommitteeonBankingSupervision,
theoversightbodyoftheBaselCommittee,publishedits“calibrated”capitalstandardsformajorbankinginstitutions

(“BaselIII”).Underthesestandards,whenfullyphasedinonJanuary1,2019,bankinginstitutionswillberequiredto

maintainheightenedTier1commonequity,Tier1capitalandtotalcapitalratios,aswellasmaintaininga“capital

conservationbuffer.”TheTier1commonequityandTier1capitalratiorequirementswillbephasedinincrementally

betweenJanuary1,2013andJanuary1,2015;thedeductionsfromcommonequitymadeincalculatingTier1common

equity(forexample,formortgageservicingassets,deferredtaxassetsandinvestmentsinunconsolidatedfinancial

institutions)willbephasedinincrementallyoverafour-yearperiodcommencingonJanuary1,2014;andthecapital

conservationbufferwillbephasedinincrementallybetweenJanuary1,2016andJanuary1,2019.TheBaselCommittee

alsoannouncedthata“countercyclicalbuffer”of0%to2.5%ofcommonequityorotherfullyloss-absorbingcapital“will

beimplementedaccordingtonationalcircumstances”asan“extension”oftheconservationbuffer.Thefinalpackageof

BaselIIIreformswereapprovedbytheG20leadersinNovember2010andaresubjecttoindividualadoptionbymember

nations,includingtheUnitedStates.Iftheforegoingrevisedcapitalstandardsareadoptedintheircurrentform,BB&T

estimatesthesestandardswouldhaveanegligibleimpactonBB&T’sabilitytocomplywiththerevisedregulatorycapital

ratiosbasedonBB&T’scurrentunderstandingoftherevisionstocapitalqualification.
13TheratiosofTier1capitalandtotalcapitaltorisk-weightedassets,andTier1capitaltoadjustedaverageassetsofBB&T,
BranchBankandBB&TFSBasofDecember31,2011,areshowninthefollowingtable.
Table2
CapitalAdequacyRatiosofBB&TCorporationandBanks
December31,2011
RegulatoryMinimumsRegulatoryMinimumstobeWell-
CapitalizedBB&TBranchBankBB&TFSBRisk-basedcapitalratios:
Tier1capital4.0%6.0%12.5%13.4%18.9%

Totalrisk-basedcapital8.010.015.715.620.2
Tier1leveragecapitalratio3.05.09.09.518.6
Thefederalbankingagencies,includingtheFederalReserve,theFDICandtheOCC,arerequiredtotake“prompt
correctiveaction”inrespectofdepositoryinstitutionsandtheirbankholdingcompaniesthatdonotmeetminimumcapital

requirements.Thelawestablishesfivecapitalcategoriesforinsureddepositoryinstitutionsforthispurpose:

“well-capitalized,”“adequatelycapitalized,”“undercapitalized,”“significantlyundercapitalized”and“critically

undercapitalized.”Tobeconsidered“well-capitalized”underthesestandards,aninstitutionmustmaintainatotal

risk-basedcapitalratioof10%orgreater;aTier1risk-basedcapitalratioof6%orgreater;aleveragecapitalratioof5%

orgreater;andmustnotbesubjecttoanyorderorwrittendirectivetomeetandmaintainaspecificcapitallevelforany

capitalmeasure.
BB&T,BranchBankandBB&TFSBareallclassifiedas“well-capitalized.”Federallawalsorequiresthebankregulatory
agenciestoimplementsystemsfor“promptcorrectiveaction”forinstitutionsthatfailtomeetminimumcapital

requirementswithinthefivecapitalcategories,withprogressivelymoresevererestrictionsonoperations,management

andcapitaldistributionsaccordingtothecategoryinwhichaninstitutionisplaced.Failuretomeetcapitalrequirements

alsomaycauseaninstitutiontobedirectedtoraiseadditionalcapital.Federallawalsomandatesthattheagenciesadopt

safetyandsoundnessstandardsgenerallyrelatingtooperationsandmanagement,assetqualityandexecutive

compensation,andauthorizesadministrativeactionagainstaninstitutionthatfailstomeetsuchstandards.
Inadditiontothe“promptcorrectiveaction”directives,failuretomeetcapitalguidelinesmaysubjectabanking
organizationtoavarietyofotherenforcementremedies,includingadditionalsubstantialrestrictionsonitsoperationsand

activities,terminationofdepositinsurancebytheFDICand,undercertainconditions,theappointmentofaconservatoror

receiver.DepositInsuranceAssessments
ThedepositsoftheBanksareinsuredbytheDIFoftheFDICuptothelimitssetforthunderapplicablelaw.TheFDIC
imposesarisk-baseddepositpremiumassessmentsystem,whichwasamendedpursuanttotheFederalDepositInsurance

ReformActof2005(the“ReformAct”)andfurtheramendedbytheDodd-FrankAct.Underthissystem,asamended,the

assessmentratesforaninsureddepositoryinstitutionvaryaccordingtothelevelofriskincurredinitsactivities.Effective

April1,2011,theFDICimplementedarevisedassessmentratecalculator,whichisbasedonanumberofelementsto

measuretheriskeachinstitutionposestotheDIF.Thenewassessmentrateisappliedtototalaverageassetslesstangible

equity,asdefinedundertheDodd-FrankAct.Theassessmentrateschedulecanchangefromtimetotime,atthediscretion

oftheFDIC,subjecttocertainlimits.OnNovember12,2009,theFDICadoptedarulerequiringbankstoprepaythree

years’worthofpremiumstoreplenishthedepletedinsurancefund.TheFDIChaspublishedguidelinesundertheReform

Actontheadjustmentofassessmentratesforcertaininstitutions.Underthecurrentsystem,premiumsareassessed

quarterly.Inaddition,insureddepositshavebeenrequiredtopayaprorataportionoftheinterestdueontheobligations

issuedbytheFinancingCorporation(“FICO”)tofundtheclosinganddisposaloffailedthriftinstitutionsbythe

ResolutionTrustCorporation.
14ConsumerProtectionLaws
Inconnectionwiththeirlendingandleasingactivities,eachoftheBanksissubjecttoanumberoffederalandstatelaws
designedtoprotectborrowersandpromotelendingtovarioussectorsoftheeconomyandpopulation.Theselawsinclude

theEqualCreditOpportunityAct,theFairCreditReportingAct,theTruthinLendingAct,theHomeMortgage

DisclosureAct,theRealEstateSettlementProceduresAct,andtheirrespectivestatelawcounterparts.
TheDodd-FrankActcreatedanew,independentfederalagency,theCFPB,whichwasgrantedbroadrulemaking,
supervisoryandenforcementpowersundervariousfederalconsumerfinancialprotectionlaws,includingthelaws

referencedaboveandcertainotherstatutes,effectiveJuly21,2011.TheCFPBhasexaminationandprimaryenforcement

authoritywithrespecttodepositoryinstitutionswith$10billionormoreinassets.Smallerinstitutionsaresubjecttorules

promulgatedbytheCFPB,butcontinuetobeexaminedandsupervisedbyfederalbankingregulatorsforconsumer

compliancepurposes.TheCFPBhasauthoritytopreventunfair,deceptiveorabusivepracticesinconnectionwiththe

offeringofconsumerfinancialproducts.TheDodd-FrankActauthorizestheCFPBtoestablishcertainminimum

standardsfortheoriginationofresidentialmortgagesincludingadeterminationoftheborrower’sabilitytorepay.In

addition,theDodd-FrankActwillallowborrowerstoraisecertaindefensestoforeclosureiftheyreceiveanyloanother

thana“qualifiedmortgage”asdefinedbytheCFPB.TheDodd-FrankActpermitsstatestoadoptconsumerprotection

lawsandstandardsthataremorestringentthanthoseadoptedatthefederalleveland,incertaincircumstances,permits

stateattorneysgeneraltoenforcecompliancewithboththestateandfederallawsandregulations.
AsrequiredbytheDodd-FrankAct,theFederalReserveadoptedruleseffectiveOctober1,2011,establishingstandards
forassessingwhethertheinterchangefeesthatmaybechargedwithrespecttoelectronicdebittransactionsare

“reasonableandproportional”tothecostsincurredbyissuersforsuchtransactions.Interchangefees,or“swipe”fees,are

chargesthatmerchantspaytoBB&Tandothercreditcardcompaniesandcard-issuingbanksforprocessingelectronic

paymenttransactions.Underthefinalrules,themaximumpermissibleinterchangefeethatanissuermayreceiveforan

electronicdebittransactionwillbethesumof21centspertransactionand5basispointsmultipliedbythevalueofthe

transaction.Anadditional1centpertransactionfraudpreventionadjustmentisavailabletothoseissuersthatcomplywith

certainstandardsoutlinedbytheFederalReserveBoard.
Federallawcurrentlycontainsextensivecustomerprivacyprotectionprovisions,includingsubstantialcustomerprivacy
protectionsprovidedundertheFinancialServicesModernizationActof1999(commonlyknownasthe

Gramm-Leach-BlileyAct).Undertheseprovisions,afinancialinstitutionmustprovidetoitscustomers,attheinception

ofthecustomerrelationshipandannuallythereafter,theinstitution’spoliciesandproceduresregardingthehandlingof

customers’nonpublicpersonalfinancialinformation.Theseprovisionsalsoprovidethat,exceptforcertainlimited

exceptions,aninstitutionmaynotprovidesuchpersonalinformationtounaffiliatedthirdpartiesunlesstheinstitution

disclosestothecustomerthatsuchinformationmaybesoprovidedandthecustomerisgiventheopportunitytooptoutof

suchdisclosure.Federallawmakesitacriminaloffense,exceptinlimitedcircumstances,toobtainorattempttoobtain

customerinformationofafinancialnaturebyfraudulentordeceptivemeans.
TheCRArequirestheBanks’primaryfederalbankregulatoryagency,theFDICforBranchBankandtheOCCforBB&T
FSB,toassessthebank’srecordinmeetingthecreditneedsofthecommunitiesservedbyeachBank,includinglow-and

moderate-incomeneighborhoodsandpersons.Institutionsareassignedoneoffourratings:“Outstanding,”“Satisfactory,”

“NeedstoImprove”or“SubstantialNoncompliance.”Thisassessmentisreviewedforanybankthatappliestomergeor

consolidatewithoracquiretheassetsorassumetheliabilitiesofaninsureddepositoryinstitution,ortoopenorrelocatea

branchoffice.TheCRArecordofeachsubsidiarybankofafinancialholdingcompany,suchasBB&T,alsoisassessed

bytheFederalReserveinconnectionwithanyacquisitionormergerapplication.
AutomatedOverdraftPaymentRegulation
TheFederalReserveandFDIChaveenactedconsumerprotectionregulationsrelatedtoautomatedoverdraftpayment
programsofferedbyfinancialinstitutions.InNovember2009,theFederalReserveamendeditsRegulationEtoprohibit

financialinstitutions,includingBB&T,fromchargingconsumersfeesforpayingoverdraftsonautomatedtellermachine

andone-timedebitcardtransactions,unlessaconsumerconsents,oroptsin,totheoverdraftserviceforthosetypesof

transactions.TheRegulationEamendmentsalsorequirefinancialinstitutionstoprovideconsumerswithanoticethat

explainsthefinancialinstitution’soverdraftservices,includingthefeesassociatedwiththeserviceandtheconsumer’s

choices.BB&TcompleteditsimplementationofthechangesasrequiredbytheRegulationEamendmentsin2010.
15InNovember2010,theFDICsupplementedtheRegulationEamendmentsbyrequiringFDIC-supervisedinstitutionsto
implementadditionalchangesrelatingtoautomatedoverdraftpaymentprograms.TheFDIC’sguidancetookeffecton

July1,2011,requiringfinancialinstitutionstomonitoroverdraftpaymentprogramsfor“excessiveorchronic”customer

useandundertake“meaningfulandeffective”follow-upactionwithcustomersthatoverdrawtheiraccountsmorethansix

timesduringarolling12-monthperiod.Theadditionalguidancealsoimposesdailylimitsonoverdraftcharges,requires

institutionstoreviewandmodifycheck-clearingprocedures,prominentlydistinguishaccountbalancesfromavailable

overdraftcoverageamountsandrequiresincreasedboardandmanagementoversightregardingoverdraftpayment

programs.BranchBankcompleteditsimplementationoftheFDIC’sguidanceinadvanceoftheJuly1,2011compliance

date.USAPatriotAct
TheUSAPatriotActof2001(the“PatriotAct”)containsanti-moneylaunderingmeasuresaffectinginsureddepository
institutions,broker-dealersandcertainotherfinancialinstitutions.ThePatriotActincludestheInternationalMoney

LaunderingAbatementandFinancialAnti-TerrorismActof2001(the“IMLAFA”).TheIMLAFArequiressuchfinancial

institutionstoimplementpoliciesandprocedurestocombatmoneylaunderingandthefinancingofterrorismandgrants

theSecretarybroadauthoritytoestablishregulationsandtoimposerequirementsandrestrictionsonfinancialinstitutions’

operations.Inaddition,thePatriotActrequiresthefederalbankregulatoryagenciestoconsidertheeffectivenessofa

financialinstitution’santi-moneylaunderingactivitieswhenreviewingbankmergersandbankholdingcompany

acquisitions.TheTreasuryDepartmenthasissuedanumberofregulationsimplementingthePatriotAct,whichimpose

obligationsonfinancialinstitutionstomaintainappropriatepolicies,proceduresandcontrolstodetect,preventandreport

moneylaunderingandterroristfinancing.TheobligationsoffinancialinstitutionsunderthePatriotActhaveincreased,

andmaycontinuetoincrease.Theincreaseinobligationsoffinancialinstitutionshasresultedinincreasedcostsfor

BB&T,whichmaycontinuetorise,andalsomaysubjectBB&Ttoadditionalliability.
FutureLaws,RegulationsandGovernmentalPrograms
Variouslaws,regulationsandgovernmentalprogramsaffectingfinancialinstitutionsandthefinancialindustryarefrom
timetotimeintroducedinCongressorotherwisepromulgatedbyregulatoryagencies.Suchmeasuresmaychangethe

operatingenvironmentofBB&Tanditssubsidiariesinsubstantialandunpredictableways.Thenatureandextentof

futurelegislative,regulatoryorotherchangesaffectingfinancialinstitutionsisveryunpredictableatthistime.
OtherRegulatoryMatters
BB&Tanditssubsidiariesandaffiliatesaresubjecttonumerousexaminationsbyfederalandstatebankingregulators,as
wellastheSEC,theFINRA,theNYSE,varioustaxingauthoritiesandvariousstateinsuranceandsecuritiesregulators.

BB&Tanditssubsidiarieshavefromtimetotimereceivedrequestsforinformationfromregulatoryauthoritiesinvarious

states,includingstateinsurancecommissionsandstateattorneysgeneral,securitiesregulatorsandotherregulatory

authorities,concerningtheirbusinessandaccountingpractices.Suchrequestsareconsideredincidentaltothenormal

conductofbusiness.
EmployeesAtDecember31,2011,BB&Thadapproximately31,800full-timeequivalentemployeescomparedtoapproximately
31,400full-timeequivalentemployeesatDecember31,2010.
WebSiteAccesstoBB&T’sFilingswiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommission
AllofBB&T’selectronicfilingswiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommission(“SEC”),includingtheAnnualReporton
Form10-K,QuarterlyReportsonForm10-Q,CurrentReportsonForm8-Kandamendmentstothesereportsfiledor

furnishedpursuanttoSections13(a)or15(d)oftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,asamended,aremadeavailableat
nocostontheCorporation’swebsite,www.BBT.com,throughtheInvestorRelationslinkassoonasreasonably

practicableafterBB&Tfilessuchmaterialwith,orfurnishesitto,theSEC.BB&T’sSECfilingsarealsoavailable
throughtheSEC’swebsiteatwww.sec.gov.
16CorporateGovernance
InformationwithrespecttoBB&T’sBoardofDirectors,ExecutiveOfficersandcorporategovernancepoliciesand
principlesispresentedonBB&T’swebsite,www.BBT.com,andincludes:
•CorporateGovernanceGuidelines

•CorporateBoardofDirectors

•CommitteesoftheCorporateBoardofDirectorsandCommitteeCharters

•CodesofEthicsforDirectors,SeniorFinancialOfficersandEmployees

•ChiefExecutiveOfficerandChiefFinancialOfficerCertifications

•ExecutiveOfficers

•PolicyandProceduresforAccountingandLegalComplaints,includingWhistleblowerProcedures
BB&TintendstodiscloseanysubstantiveamendmentsorwaiverstotheCodesofEthicsforDirectorsorSeniorFinancial
OfficersonBB&T’swebsiteatwww.BBT.com/Investor.
NYSECertification
TheannualcertificationofBB&T’sChiefExecutiveOfficerrequiredtobefurnishedtotheNYSEpursuantto
Section303A.12(a)oftheNYSEListedCompanyManualwaspreviouslyfiledwiththeNYSEonMay23,2011.
17ExecutiveOfficersofBB&T
ExecutiveOfficer
RecentWorkExperience
YearsofService
AgeKellyS.King
ChairmanandChiefExecutiveOfficer
ChairmansinceJanuary2010.ChiefExecutive
OfficersinceJanuary2009.ChiefOperating

OfficerbetweenJune2004andDecember

2008.4063
ChristopherL.Henson
ChiefOperatingOfficer
ChiefOperatingOfficersinceJanuary2009.
ChiefFinancialOfficerbetweenJuly2005and

December2008.
2750
DarylN.Bible
SeniorExecutiveVicePresidentand

ChiefFinancialOfficer
ChiefFinancialOfficersinceJanuary2009.
AssistantChiefFinancialOfficerbetween

January2008andDecember2008.Employed

byU.SBancorpfor24years,servingas

Treasurerforthefinal10years.
450
RickyK.Brown
SeniorExecutiveVicePresidentand

President,CommunityBanking
President,CommunityBankingsinceJuly
2004.3556
BarbaraF.Duck
SeniorExecutiveVicePresidentand

EnterpriseRiskManager
EnterpriseRiskManagersinceJuly2009.
ElectronicDeliveryChannelsManager

betweenJuly2006andJune2009.
2445
DonnaC.Goodrich
SeniorExecutiveVicePresidentand

DepositServicesManager
DepositServicesManagersinceApril2004.2649
RobertE.Greene
SeniorExecutiveVicePresidentand

AdministrativeGroupManager
AdministrativeGroupManagersinceAugust
2001.RiskManagementGroupManager

betweenJuly2006andJune2009.
3961
ClarkeR.StarnesIII
SeniorExecutiveVicePresidentand

ChiefRiskOfficer
ChiefRiskOfficersinceJuly2009.Chief
CreditOfficerbetweenSeptember2008and

June2009.SpecializedLendingManager

betweenJanuary2000andAugust2008.
3052
StevenB.Wiggs
SeniorExecutiveVicePresidentand

ChiefMarketingOfficerandLendingGroup
ManagerChiefMarketingOfficersinceFebruary2005.
LendingGroupManagersinceJuly2009.
3354
C.LeonWilsonIII
SeniorExecutiveVicePresidentand

OperationsDivisionManager
OperationsDivisionManagersinceJuly1988.3556
18ITEM1A.RISKFACTORS
ThefollowingdiscussionsetsforthsomeofthemoreimportantriskfactorsthatcouldmateriallyaffectBB&T’sfinancial
conditionandoperations.OtherfactorsthatcouldaffecttheCorporation’sfinancialconditionandoperationsarediscussed

inthe“Forward-lookingstatements”sectionabove.However,theremaybeadditionalrisksthatarenotpresentlymaterial

orknown,andfactorsbesidesthosediscussedbelow,orelsewhereinthisorotherreportsthatBB&Tfiledorfurnished

withtheSEC,thatalsocouldadverselyaffecttheCorporation.
Changesinnational,regionalandlocaleconomicconditionsanddeteriorationinthegeographicandfinancialmarketsin
whichBB&Toperatescouldleadtohigherloancharge-offsandreduceBB&T’snetincomeandgrowth.
BB&T’sbusinessissubjecttoperiodicfluctuationsbasedonnational,regionalandlocaleconomicconditions.These
fluctuationsarenotpredictable,cannotbecontrolled,andmayhaveamaterialadverseimpactonBB&T’soperationsand

financialconditionevenifotherfavorableeventsoccur.BB&T’sbankingoperationsarelocallyorientedand

community-based.Accordingly,BB&Texpectstocontinuetobedependentuponlocalbusinessconditionsaswellas

conditionsinthelocalresidentialandcommercialrealestatemarketsitserves.Forexample,anincreasein

unemployment,adecreaseinrealestatevaluesorincreasesininterestrates,aswellasotherfactors,couldweakenthe

economiesofthecommunitiesBB&Tserves.WeaknessinBB&T’smarketareacoulddepressitsearningsand

consequentlyitsfinancialconditionbecause:
•customersmaynotwantorneedBB&T’sproductsorservices;

•borrowersmaynotbeableorwillingtorepaytheirloans;

•thevalueofthecollateralsecuringloanstoborrowersmaydecline;and

•thequalityofBB&T’sloanportfoliomaydecline.
AnyofthelatterthreescenarioscouldrequireBB&Ttochargeoffahigherpercentageofloansand/orincreaseprovisions
forcreditlosses,whichwouldreduceBB&T’snetincome.Forexample,whilethecreditdeteriorationthatBB&T

experiencedbeginningin2007andcontinuingthroughmuchof2010improvedconsiderablyduring2011,thechallenges

intheresidentialrealestatemarketsstillpresentcreditdeteriorationrisksforBB&Tinlightoftheslowpaceofgeneral

economicrecovery.Anyfurthercreditdeterioration,combinedwithflattodecliningrealestatevalues,wouldresultin

increasedloancharge-offsandhigherprovisionsforcreditlosses,whichmaynegativelyimpactBB&T’snetincome.
Inaddition,significantdeclinesinthehousingmarketfrom2007through2010,withfallinghomepricesandincreasing
foreclosuresandunemployment,resultedinsignificantwrite-downsofassetvaluesbymanyfinancialinstitutions,

includinggovernment-sponsoredentitiesandmajorcommercialandinvestmentbanks.Thesewrite-downs,initiallyof

mortgage-backedsecuritiesbutspreadingtocreditdefaultswapsandotherderivativesecurities,causedmanyfinancial

institutionstoseekadditionalcapital,tomergewithlargerandstrongerinstitutionsand,insomecases,tofail.BB&Tis

partofthefinancialsystemandasystemiclackofavailablecredit,alackofconfidenceinthefinancialsector,continued

volatilityinthefinancialmarketsand/orreducedbusinessactivitycouldmateriallyadverselyaffectBB&T’sbusiness,

financialconditionandresultsofoperations.
DowngradesofU.S.governmentsecuritiesbyoneormoreofthecreditratingsagenciescouldhaveamaterialadverse
effectonBB&T’soperations,earningsandfinancialcondition.
TheongoingdebateinCongressregardingfederalbudgetdeficitconcerns,thenationaldebtceilingandoverallweakness
intheeconomyresultedinthedowngradeofU.S.governmentsecuritiesbyStandard&Poor’s,oneofthethreemajor

creditratingagencies,inAugust2011.Thepossiblefuturedowngradeofthefederalgovernment’screditratingbyoneor

bothoftheothertwomajorratingsagenciescouldcreateuncertaintyintheU.S.andglobalfinancialmarketsandcause

othereventswhich,directlyorindirectly,mayadverselyaffectBB&T’soperations,earningsandfinancialcondition.For

example,BB&Tsecuritiesportfolioconsistslargelyofmortgagebackedsecuritiesissuedbygovernmentsponsored

entities,suchasFreddieMacandFannieMae.Amongotherthings,adowngradeintheU.S.government’screditrating

couldadverselyimpactthevalueofthesesecuritiesandmaytriggerrequirementsthattheCorporationpostadditional

collateralfortradesrelativetothesesecurities.
19Weaknessinthemarketsforresidentialorcommercialrealestate,includingthesecondaryresidentialmortgageloan
markets,couldreduceBB&T’snetincomeandprofitability.
Since2007,softeningresidentialhousingmarkets,increasingdelinquencyanddefaultrates,andincreasinglyvolatileand
constrainedsecondarycreditmarketshavebeennegativelyimpactingthemortgageindustry.BB&T’sfinancialresults

havebeenadverselyaffectedbychangesinrealestatevalues,primarilyinGeorgia,FloridaandmetroWashington,D.C.,

withsomedeteriorationinthecoastalareasoftheCarolinas.Decreasesinrealestatevalueshaveadverselyaffectedthe

valueofpropertyusedascollateralforloansandinvestmentsinBB&T’sportfolio.Forexample,thepooreconomic

conditionsexperiencedin2007through2010,coupledwithsloweconomicgrowthandongoingconcernsregarding

economicrecovery,haveresultedindecreaseddemandforrealestateloans,andBB&T’snetincomeandprofitshave

sufferedasaresult.
ThedeclinesinhomepricesinmanymarketsacrosstheU.S.,includinganumberofmarketsinBB&T’sbankingfootprint
(primarilyinGeorgia,Florida,andmetroWashington,D.C.,withsomedeteriorationinthecoastalareasoftheCarolinas),

alongwiththereducedavailabilityofmortgagecredit,alsohasresultedinincreasesindelinquenciesandlossesin

BB&T’sportfolioofloansrelatedtoresidentialrealestate,includingitsacquisition,developmentandconstructionloan

portfolio.FurtherdeclinesinhomepriceswithinBB&T’sbankingfootprint(includingmarketsthattodatehavenot

experiencedsignificantdeclines)coupledwiththecontinuedimpactoftheeconomicrecessionandhighunemployment

levelscoulddrivelossesbeyondthelevelsprovidedforinBB&T’sallowanceforloanlosses.Inthatevent,BB&T’s

futureearningswouldbeadverselyaffected.
Significantongoingdisruptioninthesecondarymarketforresidentialmortgageloanshaslimitedthemarketforand
liquidityofmostmortgageloansotherthanconformingFannieMae,FreddieMacandGinnieMaeloans.Theeffectsof

ongoingmortgagemarketchallenges,combinedwiththeongoingcorrectioninresidentialrealestatemarketpricesand

reducedlevelsofhomesaleshasresultedinpricereductionsinsinglefamilyhomevalues,adverselyaffectingthevalue

ofcollateralsecuringmortgageloansheldandmortgageloanoriginations.Continueddeclinesinrealestatevaluesand

homesalesvolumeswithinBB&T’sbankingfootprint,andfinancialstressonborrowersasaresultofjoblosses,orother

factors,couldhavefurtheradverseeffectsonborrowersthatresultinhigherdelinquenciesandgreatercharge-offsin

futureperiods,whichwouldadverselyaffectBB&T’sfinancialconditionandresultsofoperations.
TheColonialloanportfoliosarelargelycoveredbyshared-lossagreements,however,BB&Tisnotimmunefromlossesor
risksrelativetotheseportfolios.
OnAugust14,2009,BranchBankenteredintoanagreementwiththeFederalDepositInsuranceCorporation(“FDIC”)to
acquirecertainassetsandassumesubstantiallyallofthedepositsandcertainliabilitiesofColonialBank,anAlabama

state-charteredbankheadquarteredinMontgomery,Alabama(“Colonial”).Asaresult,BranchBankacquireda

significantportfolioofloansfromColonial.AlthoughBranchBankmarkeddowntheacquiredloanportfoliotoestimated

fairvalue,theacquiredloanscouldsufferfurtherdeteriorationinvalueresultinginadditionalcharge-offstothisloan

portfolio.Fluctuationsinnational,regionalandlocaleconomicconditions,includingthoserelatedtolocalresidentialreal

estate,commercialrealestateandconstructionmarketsmayincreasethelevelofcharge-offsontheloanportfoliothat

wasacquiredintheacquisitionofColonialandcorrespondinglyreduceBB&T’snetincome.Thesefluctuationsarenot

predictable,cannotbecontrolledandmayhaveamaterialadverseimpactonBB&T’soperationsandfinancialcondition

evenifotherfavorableeventsoccur.AlthoughBranchBankenteredintolosssharingagreementswiththeFDIC,which

providethatasignificantportionoflossesrelatedtospecifiedloanportfoliosthatwereacquiredinconnectionwiththe

acquisitionofColonialwillbebornebytheFDIC,BranchBankisnotprotectedfromalllossesresultingfromcharge-offs

withrespecttothosespecifiedloanportfolios.Additionally,thelosssharingagreementshavelimitedterms;therefore,any

charge-offofrelatedlossesthatBranchBankexperiencesafterthetermofthelosssharingagreementswillnotbe

reimbursedbytheFDICandwillnegativelyimpactBB&T’snetincome.
TheColonialacquisitionhasincreasedBranchBank’scommercialrealestateandconstructionloanportfolio,which
haveagreatercreditriskthanresidentialmortgageloans.
WiththeacquisitionoftheColonialloanportfolio,thecommercialrealestateloanandconstructionloanportfolioshave
becomealargerportionofBranchBank’stotalloanportfoliothanitwaspriortotheColonialacquisition.Thistypeof

lendingisgenerallyconsideredtohavemorecomplexcreditrisksthantraditionalsingle-familyresidentiallending,

becausetheprincipalrepaymentmaybedependentonthesuccessfuloperationoftherelatedrealestateorconstruction

project.Consequently,commercialrealestateandconstructionloansaremoresensitivetothecurrentadverseconditions
20intherealestatemarketandthegeneraleconomy.Thesetypesofloansaregenerallylesspredictable,moredifficultto
evaluateandmonitor,andcollateralmaybemoredifficulttodisposeofinasoftmarket.However,withrespecttothe

loansacquiredintheColonialtransaction,thenegativeeconomicaspectsoftheserisksaremitigatedasaresultofthe

FDIClosssharingagreements.
BB&T’sliquiditycouldbeimpairedbyaninabilitytoaccessthecapitalmarkets,anunforeseenoutflowofcashora
reductioninthecreditratingsforBB&Toritssubsidiaries.
LiquidityisessentialtoBB&T’sbusinesses.Thecapitalandcreditmarketscontinuetodemonstratevolatilityand
disruption,despitemodestimprovementsinthegeneraleconomyduring2011,producing,insomecasesdownward

pressureonstockpricesandcreditcapacityforcertainissuerswithoutregardtothoseissuers’underlyingfinancial

strength.Iftheselevelsofmarketdisruptionandvolatilitycontinue,worsenorabateandthenariseatalaterdate,

BB&T’sabilitytoaccesscapitalcouldbemateriallyimpaired.Additionally,otherfactorsoutsideofBB&T’scontrol,

suchasageneralmarketdisruptionoranoperationalproblemthataffectsthirdpartiesorBB&TcouldimpairBB&T’s

abilitytoaccessthecapitalmarketsorcreateanunforeseenoutflowofcashordeposits.BB&T’sinabilitytoaccessthe

capitalmarketscouldconstrainitsabilitytomakenewloans,tomeetitsexistinglendingcommitmentsand,ultimately

jeopardizeitsoverallliquidityandcapitalization.
BB&T’screditratingsarealsoimportanttoitsliquidity.TheseratingagenciesregularlyevaluateBB&Tandits
subsidiaries,andtheirratingsarebasedonanumberoffactors,includingthefinancialstrengthofBB&Tandits

subsidiaries,aswellasfactorsnotentirelywithinBB&T’scontrol,includingconditionsaffectingthefinancialservices

industrygenerally.Inlightoftheongoingdifficultiesinthefinancialservicesindustryandthehousingandfinancial

markets,aswellasthesofteconomicrecoveryingeneral,therecanbenoassurancethatBB&Twillmaintainitscurrent

ratings.AreductioninBB&T’screditratingscouldadverselyaffectBB&T’sliquidityandcompetitiveposition,increase

itsborrowingcosts,limititsaccesstothecapitalmarketsortriggerunfavorablecontractualobligations.
ThesoundnessofotherfinancialinstitutionscouldadverselyaffectBB&T.
Financialservicesinstitutionsareinterrelatedasaresultoftrading,clearing,counterparty,orotherrelationships.BB&T
hasexposuretomanydifferentindustriesandcounterparties,andBB&Tandcertainofitssubsidiariesroutinelyexecute

transactionswithcounterpartiesinthefinancialservicesindustry,includingbrokersanddealers,commercialbanks,

investmentbanks,mutualandhedgefunds,andotherinstitutionalclients.ManyofthesetransactionsexposeBB&Tto

creditriskintheeventofdefaultofitscounterpartyorclient.Inaddition,BB&T’screditriskmaybeexacerbatedwhen

collateralisliquidatedatpricesnotsufficienttorecoverthefullamountoftheloanorderivativeexposuredueBB&T.

ThesetypesoflossescouldmateriallyandadverselyaffectBB&T’sresultsofoperationsorfinancialcondition.
ChangesininterestratesmayhaveanadverseeffectonBB&T’sprofitability.
BB&T’searningsandfinancialconditionarelargelydependentonnetinterestincome,whichisthedifferencebetween
interestearnedfromloansandinvestmentsandinterestpaidondepositsandborrowings.Thenarrowingofinterestrate

spreads,meaningthedifferencebetweeninterestratesearnedonloansandinvestmentsandtheinterestratespaidon

depositsandborrowings,couldadverselyaffectBB&T’searningsandfinancialcondition.BB&Tcannotcontrolor

predictwithcertaintychangesininterestrates.Regionalandlocaleconomicconditions,competitivepressuresandthe

policiesofregulatoryauthorities,includingmonetarypoliciesoftheFederalReserveBoard,affectinterestincomeand

interestexpense.Asdiscussedin“MarketRiskManagement–InterestRateMarketRisk(OtherthanTrading),”BB&T

hasongoingpoliciesandproceduresdesignedtomanagetherisksassociatedwithchangesinmarketinterestrates.

However,changesininterestratesstillmayhaveanadverseeffectonBB&T’sprofitability.Forexample,highinterest

ratescouldadverselyaffectBB&T’smortgagebankingbusinessbecausehigherinterestratescouldcausecustomersto

applyforfewermortgagerefinancingsorpurchasemortgages.WhileBB&Tactivelymanagesagainsttheserisks,if

BB&T’sassumptionsregardingborrowerbehaviorarewrongoroveralleconomicconditionsaresignificantlyworsethan

plannedfor,thentheCorporation’sriskmitigationtechniquesmaybeinsufficienttoprotectagainsttherisk.
ChangesinbankinglawscouldhaveamaterialadverseeffectonBB&T.
BB&Tisextensivelyregulatedunderfederalandstatebankinglawsandregulationsthatareintendedprimarilyforthe
protectionofdepositors,federaldepositinsurancefundsandthebankingsystemasawhole.Inaddition,BB&Tissubject

tochangesinfederalandstatelawsaswellaschangesinbankingandcreditregulations,andgovernmentaleconomicand
21monetarypolicies.BB&TcannotpredictwhetheranyofthesechangesmayadverselyandmateriallyaffectBB&T.The
currentregulatoryenvironmentforfinancialinstitutionsentailssignificantpotentialincreasesincompliancerequirements

andassociatedcosts,includingthoserelatedtoconsumercredit,withafocusonmortgagelending.Forexample,the

enactmentoftheDodd-FrankActin2010representedasignificantoverhaulofmanyaspectsoftheregulationofthe

financialservicesindustry,andtheimplementationofandrulemakingundertheDodd-FrankActduring2011andinthe

futurecouldresultinhighercompliancecostsandotherwisemateriallyadverselyaffectBB&T’sbusiness,financial

conditionorresultsofoperations.See“RegulatoryConsiderations”andtheimmediatelyfollowingriskfactorfor

additionalinformationregardingtheDodd-FrankActanditspotentialimpactuponBB&Tanditssubsidiaries.
Federalandstatebankingregulatorsalsopossessbroadpowerstotakesupervisoryactionsastheydeemappropriate.
Thesesupervisoryactionsmayresultinhighercapitalrequirements,higherinsurancepremiumsandlimitationson

BB&T’sactivitiesthatcouldhaveamaterialadverseeffectonitsbusinessandprofitability.
TheongoingimplementationoftheDodd-FrankAct,anditsrelatedrulemakingactivities,mayresultinlowerrevenues,
highercostsandratingsdowngrades.
TheDodd-FrankAct,signedintolawinJuly2010,representsasignificantoverhaulofmanyaspectsoftheregulationof
thefinancialservicesindustry,addressing,amongotherthings,systemicrisk,capitaladequacy,depositinsurance

assessments,consumerfinancialprotection,interchangefees,derivatives,lendinglimits,andchangesamongthebank

regulatoryagencies.During2011,federalagenciescontinuedimplementationofandrulemakingundertheDodd-Frank

Act.Manyoftheseprovisionsremainsubjecttofurtherstudy,rulemaking,andthediscretionofregulatorybodies,suchas

theFinancialStabilityOversightCouncil,whichwillregulatethesystemicriskofthefinancialsystem.DuetoBB&T’s

size,theCompanywillbedesignatedas“systemicallysignificant”tothefinancialhealthoftheU.S.economyand,asa

result,willbesubjecttoadditionalregulationssuchasthe“livingwill”requirementsrelatingtotherapidandorderly

resolutionofsystemicallysignificantfinancialinstitutionsintheeventofmaterialfinancialdistressorfailure.BB&T

cannotpredicttheadditionaleffectsthatcompliancewiththeDodd-FrankActoranyimplementingregulationswillhave

onBB&T’sbusinessesoritsabilitytopursuefuturebusinessopportunities.Additionalregulationsresultingfromthe

Dodd-FrankActmaymateriallyadverselyaffectBB&T’sbusiness,financialconditionorresultsofoperations.See

“RegulatoryConsiderations”foradditionalinformationregardingtheDodd-FrankActanditsimpactuponBB&Tandits

subsidiaries.TheprovisionsoftheDoddFrankActrestrictingbankinterchangefees,andtherulespromulgatedthereunder,may
furthernegativelyimpactBB&T’srevenuesandearnings.
PursuanttotheDodd-FrankAct,theFederalReserveadoptedruleseffectiveOctober1,2011,limitingtheinterchange
feesthatmaybechargedwithrespecttoelectronicdebittransactions.Interchangefees,or“swipe”fees,arechargesthat

merchantspaytoBB&Tandothercreditcardcompaniesandcard-issuingbanksforprocessingelectronicpayment

transactions.Sincetakingeffect,theselimitationshavereducedBB&T’sdebitcardinterchangerevenuesandhavecreated

meaningfulcompliancecosts.AdditionallimitsmayfurtherreduceBB&T’sdebitcardinterchangerevenuesandcreate

additionalcompliancecosts.See“RegulatoryConsiderations—ConsumerProtectionLaws”foradditionalinformation

regardingthelimitsoninterchangefeesimposedundertheDodd-FrankAct.
Recentlyenactedconsumerprotectionregulationsrelatedtoautomatedoverdraftpaymentprogramscouldadversely
affectBB&T’sbusinessoperations,netincomeandprofitability.
TheFederalReserveandFDICrecentlyenactedconsumerprotectionregulationsrelatedtoautomatedoverdraftpayment
programsofferedbyfinancialinstitutions,whicharedescribedundertheheading“RegulatoryConsiderations—

AutomatedOverdraftPaymentRegulation.”BB&Thasimplementedchangestoitsbusinesspracticesrelatingtooverdraft

paymentprogramsinordertocomplywiththeseregulations.
FortheyearsendedDecember31,2010andDecember31,2009,BranchBank’soverdraftandinsufficientfundsfees
representedasignificantamountofnon-interestfeescollectedbyBranchBank.SincetakingeffectonJuly1,2011,the

feesreceivedbyBranchBankforautomatedoverdraftpaymentserviceshavedecreased,therebyadverselyimpacting

BB&T’snon-interestincome.ComplyingwiththeseregulationshasresultedinincreasedoperationalcostsforBB&Tand

BranchBank,whichmaycontinuetorise.Inaddition,BB&Tmaybeplacedatacompetitivedisadvantagetotheextent
22thatitscompetitorsarenotsubjecttotheFDIC’sautomatedoverdraftpaymentprogramregulations.Theactualimpactof
theseregulationsinfutureperiodscouldvaryduetoavarietyoffactors,includingchangesincustomerbehavior,

economicconditionsandotherfactors,whichcouldadverselyaffectBB&T’sbusinessoperations,netincomeand

profitability.BB&Tmaybesubjecttomorestringentcapitalrequirements,whichcoulddiminishitsabilitytopaydividendsorrequire
BB&Ttoreduceitsoperations.
TheDodd-FrankActrequiresfederalbankingagenciestoestablishmorestringentrisk-basedcapitalrequirementsand
leveragelimitsapplicabletobanksandbankholdingcompanies.Underthelegislation,federalbankingagenciesare

requiredtodevelopcapitalrequirementsthataddresssystemicallyriskyactivities.Theeffectofthesecapitalruleswill

disallowtrustpreferredsecuritiesfromcountingasTier1capitalattheholdingcompanylevelforentitieswithgreater

than$15billioninassets,withathree-yearphase-inperiodbeginningonJanuary1,2013.Theserequirements,andany

othernewregulations,includingthosethatmaybeimposedasaresultoftherequirementsestablishedbytheBasel

CommitteeonBankingSupervision,couldadverselyaffectBB&T’sabilitytopaydividends,orcouldrequireBB&Tto

reducebusinesslevelsortoraisecapital,includingwaysthatmayadverselyaffectitsresultsofoperationsorfinancial

condition.Inaddition,thecostsassociatedwithcomplyingwiththemorestringentcapitalrequirements,suchasthe

requirementtoformulateandsubmitcapitalplansbasedonpre-definedstressscenariosonanannualbasis,couldhavea

materialadverseeffectonBB&T.
BB&Tmayexperiencesignificantcompetitioninitsmarketarea,whichmayreduceitscustomerbaseorcauseittolower
pricesforitsproductsandservicesinordertomaintainmarketshare.
ThereisintensecompetitionamongcommercialbanksinBB&T’smarketarea.Inaddition,BB&Tcompeteswithother
providersoffinancialservices,suchassavingsandloanassociations,creditunions,consumerfinancecompanies,

securitiesfirms,insurancecompanies,commercialfinanceandleasingcompanies,themutualfundsindustry,full-service

brokeragefirmsanddiscountbrokeragefirms,someofwhicharesubjecttolessextensiveregulationsthanBB&Tiswith

respecttotheproductsandservicestheyprovide.BB&T’ssuccessdepends,inpart,onitsabilitytoadaptitsproductsand

servicestoevolvingindustrystandards.Thereisincreasingpressuretoprovideproductsandservicesatlowerprices.

LowerpricescanreduceBB&T’snetinterestmarginandrevenuesfromitsfee-basedproductsandservices.
Inaddition,theadoptionofnewtechnologiesbycompetitors,includinginternetbankingservices,mobilephone
applicationsandadvancedATMfunctionalitycouldrequireBB&Ttomakesubstantialexpenditurestomodifyoradaptits

existingproductsandservices.Also,theseandothercapitalinvestmentsinBB&T’sbusinessmaynotproduceexpected

growthinearningsanticipatedatthetimeoftheexpenditure.BB&Tmaynotbesuccessfulinintroducingnewproducts

andservices,achievingmarketacceptanceofitsproductsandservices,anticipatingorreactingtoconsumers’changing

technologicalpreferencesordevelopingandmaintainingloyalcustomers.
SomeofBB&T’slargercompetitors,includingcertainnationalbanksthathaveasignificantpresenceinBB&T’smarket
area,mayhavegreatercapitalandresourcesthanBB&T,mayhavehigherlendinglimitsandmayofferproductsand

servicesnotofferedbyBB&T.AlthoughBB&Tremainsstrong,stableandwellcapitalized,managementcannotpredict

thereactionofcustomersandotherthirdpartieswithwhichBB&Tconductsbusinesswithrespecttothestrengthof

BB&Trelativetoitscompetitors,includingitslargercompetitors.AnypotentialadversereactionstoBB&T’sfinancial

conditionorstatusinthemarketplace,ascomparedtoitscompetitors,couldlimitBB&T’sabilitytoattractandretain

customersandtocompetefornewbusinessopportunities.Theinabilitytoattractandretaincustomersortoeffectively

competefornewbusinessmayhaveamaterialandadverseeffectonBB&T’sfinancialconditionandresultsof

operations.BB&Talsoexperiencescompetitionfromavarietyofinstitutionsoutsideofitsmarketarea.Someoftheseinstitutions
conductbusinessprimarilyovertheInternetandmaythusbeabletorealizecertaincostsavingsandofferproductsand

servicesatmorefavorableratesandwithgreaterconveniencetothecustomerwhocanpaybillsandtransferfunds

directlywithoutgoingthroughabank.This“disintermediation”couldresultinthelossoffeeincome,aswellastheloss

ofcustomerdepositsandincomegeneratedfromthosedeposits.Inaddition,changesinconsumerspendingandsaving

habitscouldadverselyaffectBB&T’soperations,andtheCompanymaybeunabletotimelydevelopcompetitivenew

productsandservicesinresponsetothesechanges.
23UnpredictablecatastrophiceventscouldhaveamaterialadverseeffectonBB&T.
Theoccurrenceofcatastrophiceventssuchashurricanes,tropicalstorms,tornados,andotherlargescalecatastrophes
couldadverselyaffectBB&T’sconsolidatedfinancialconditionorresultsofoperations.BB&Thasoperationsand

customersalongtheGulfandAtlanticcoastsaswellasotherpartsofthesoutheasternUnitedStates,whichcouldbe

adverselyimpactedbyhurricanesandothersevereweatherinthoseregions.Unpredictablenaturalandotherdisasters

couldhaveanadverseeffectonBB&Tinthatsucheventscouldmateriallydisruptitsoperationsortheabilityor

willingnessofitscustomerstoaccessthefinancialservicesofferedbyBB&T.BB&T’spropertyandcasualtyinsurance

operationsalsoexposeittoclaimsarisingoutofcatastrophes.Theincidenceandseverityofcatastrophesareinherently

unpredictable.AlthoughBB&Tcarriesinsurancetomitigateitsexposuretocertaincatastrophicevents,theseeventscould

neverthelessreduceBB&T’searningsandcausevolatilityinitsfinancialresultsforanyfiscalquarteroryearandhavea

materialadverseeffectonBB&T’sfinancialconditionand/orresultsofoperations.
BB&Tfacessignificantoperationalrisksrelatedtoitsactivities,whichcouldexposeittonegativepublicity,litigation
and/orregulatoryaction.
BB&Tisexposedtomanytypesofrisks,includingoperational,reputational,legalandcompliancerisk,theriskoffraud
ortheftbyemployeesoroutsiders(includingidentityandinformationtheft),unauthorizedtransactionsbyemployeesor

operationalerrors,includingclericalorrecord-keepingerrorsorthoseresultingfromfaultyordisabledcomputeror

telecommunicationssystems.NegativepublicopinioncanresultfromBB&T’sactualorallegedconductinanynumberof

activities,includinglendingpractices,corporategovernanceandacquisitions,activitiesrelatedtoassetsalesandbalance

sheetmanagementandfromactionstakenbygovernmentregulatorsandcommunityorganizationsinresponsetothose

activities.NegativepublicopinioncanadverselyaffectBB&T’sabilitytoattractandkeepcustomersandcanexposeitto

litigationandregulatoryaction.
Becausethenatureofthefinancialservicesbusinessinvolvesahighvolumeoftransactions,certainerrorsmaybe
repeatedorcompoundedbeforetheyarediscoveredandsuccessfullyrectified.BB&T’snecessarydependenceupon

automatedsystemstorecordandprocessitstransactionvolumemayfurtherincreasetheriskthattechnicalflawsor

employeetamperingormanipulationofthosesystemswillresultinlossesthataredifficulttodetect.BB&Talsomaybe

subjecttodisruptionsofitsoperatingsystemsarisingfromeventsthatarewhollyorpartiallybeyonditscontrol(for

example,computervirusesorelectricalortelecommunicationsoutages),whichmaygiverisetodisruptionofserviceto

customersandtofinanciallossorliability.BB&Tisfurtherexposedtotheriskthatitsexternalvendorsmaybeunableto

fulfilltheircontractualobligations(orwillbesubjecttothesameriskoffraudoroperationalerrorsbytheirrespective

employeesasisBB&T)andtotheriskthatBB&T’s(oritsvendors’)businesscontinuityanddatasecuritysystemsprove

tobeinadequate.
BB&Treliesonothercompaniestoprovidecertainkeycomponentsofitsbusinessinfrastructure.
ThirdpartyvendorsprovidecertainkeycomponentsofBB&T’sbusinessinfrastructuresuchasinternetconnections,
networkaccessandmutualfunddistribution.WhileBB&Thasselectedthesethirdpartyvendorscarefully,itdoesnot

controltheiroperations.Anyproblemscausedbythesethirdparties,includingthosewhichresultfromtheirfailureto

provideservicesforanyreasonortheirpoorperformanceofservices,couldadverselyaffectBB&T’sabilitytodeliver

productsandservicestoitscustomersandotherwisetoconductitsbusiness.Replacingthesethirdpartyvendorscould

alsoentailsignificantdelayandexpense.
SignificantlitigationcouldhaveamaterialadverseeffectonBB&T.
BB&Tfaceslegalrisksinitsbusiness,andthevolumeofclaimsandamountofdamagesandpenaltiesclaimedin
litigationandregulatoryproceedingsagainstfinancialinstitutionsremainhigh.Substantiallegalliabilityorsignificant

regulatoryactionagainstBB&Tmayhavematerialadversefinancialeffectsorcausesignificantreputationalharmto

BB&T,whichinturncouldseriouslyharmBB&T’sbusinessprospects.
BB&Tfacessystemsfailurerisksaswellassecurityrisks,including“hacking”and“identitytheft.”
ThecomputersystemsandnetworkinfrastructureBB&Tandothersusecouldbevulnerabletounforeseenproblems.
TheseproblemsmayariseinbothBB&T’sinternallydevelopedsystemsandthesystemsofitsthird-partyservice

providers.BB&T’soperationsaredependentuponitsabilitytoprotectcomputerequipmentagainstdamagefromfire,
24powerlossortelecommunicationfailure.AnydamageorfailurethatcausesaninterruptioninBB&T’soperationscould
adverselyaffectitsbusinessandfinancialresults.Inaddition,BB&T’scomputersystemsandnetworkinfrastructure

presentsecurityrisks,andcouldbesusceptibletohackingoridentitytheft.Hackingandidentitytheftrisks,inparticular,

couldcauseseriousreputationalharm.
DifferencesininterpretationoftaxlawsandregulationsmayadverselyimpactBB&T’sfinancialstatements.
Local,stateorfederaltaxauthoritiesmayinterprettaxlawsandregulationsdifferentlythanBB&Tandchallengetax
positionsthatBB&Thastakenonitstaxreturns.Thismayresultindifferencesinthetreatmentofrevenues,deductionsor

credits,and/ordifferencesinthetimingoftheseitems.Thedifferencesintreatmentmayresultinthepaymentof

additionaltaxes,interestorpenaltiesthatcouldhaveamaterialadverseeffectonBB&T’sperformance.Forexample,as

discussedinNote13“IncomeTaxes”inthe“NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements,”inFebruary2010,BB&T

receivedanIRSstatutorynoticeofdeficiencyfortaxyears2002-2007assertingaliabilityfortaxes,penaltiesandinterest

ofapproximately$892million.Asaproceduralmatter,andtolimitfurtherexposuretopenaltiesandinterest,BB&Tpaid

thedisputedtax,penaltiesandinterestinMarch2010andfiledalawsuitseekingarefundintheU.S.CourtofFederal

Claims.Finalresolutionofthismatterisnotexpectedwithinthenext12months.
BB&Tmaynotbeabletocompleteacquisitions,includingtheacquisitionofBankAtlantic.
BB&Tmustgenerallysatisfyanumberofmeaningfulconditionsbeforeitcancompleteanacquisitionofanotherbankor
bankholdingcompany,includingfederaland/orstateregulatoryapprovals.Forexample,BB&Tiscurrentlyseeking

approvalforitsproposedacquisitionofBankAtlantic,awhollyownedsubsidiaryofBankAtlanticBancorp,Inc.pursuant

toadefinitiveagreementexecutedinNovember2011.Indeterminingwhethertoapproveaproposedbankacquisition,

bankregulatorswillconsider,amongotherfactors,theeffectoftheacquisitiononcompetition,financialconditionand

futureprospects,includingcurrentandprojectedcapitalratiosandlevels,thecompetence,experienceandintegrityof

managementandrecordofcompliancewithlawsandregulations,theconvenienceandneedsofthecommunitiestobe

served,includingtheacquiringinstitution’srecordofcomplianceundertheCommunityReinvestmentAct,the

effectivenessoftheacquiringinstitutionincombatingmoneylaunderingactivitiesandprotestsfromvariousstakeholders

ofbothBB&Tanditsacquisitionpartner.Also,undertheDodd-FrankAct,U.S.regulatorsmustnowtakesystemicrisk

intoaccountwhenevaluatingwhethertoapproveapotentialacquisitiontransactioninvolvingalargefinancialinstitution

likeBB&T.BB&Tcannotbecertainwhenorif,oronwhattermsandconditions,anyrequiredregulatoryapprovalswill

begranted.Inspecificcases,BB&Tmayberequiredtosellbanksorbranches,ortakeotheractionsasaconditionto

receivingregulatoryapproval.Aninabilitytosatisfyothermaterialconditionsnecessarytoconsummateanacquisition

transaction,suchasthird-partylitigation,ajudicialorderblockingthetransactionorlackofshareholderapproval,could

alsopreventBB&Tfromcompletinganannouncedacquisition.
BB&Tmaynotbeabletosuccessfullyintegratebankornonbankmergersandacquisitions.
Difficultiesmayariseintheintegrationofthebusinessandoperationsofbankholdingcompanies,banksandother
nonbankentitiesBB&Tacquiresand,asaresult,BB&Tmaynotbeabletoachievethecostsavingsandsynergiesthatit

expectswillresultfromsuchtransactions.Achievingcostsavingsisdependentonconsolidatingcertainoperationaland

functionalareas,eliminatingduplicativepositionsandterminatingcertainagreementsforoutsideservices.Additional

operationalsavingsaredependentupontheintegrationoftheacquiredormergedentity’sbusinesseswithBB&Toroneof

BB&T’ssubsidiaries,theconversionofcoreoperatingsystems,datasystemsandproductsandthestandardizationof

businesspractices.Complicationsordifficultiesintheconversionofthecoreoperatingsystems,datasystemsand

productsmayresultinthelossofcustomers,damagetoBB&T’sreputationwithinthefinancialservicesindustry,

operationalproblems,one-timecostscurrentlynotanticipatedorreducedcostsavingsresultingfromsuchmergersor

acquisitions.Annualcostsavingsineachsuchtransactionmaybemateriallylessthananticipatediftheholdingcompany,

bankmergerornonbankmergeroracquisitionisdelayedunexpectedly,theintegrationofoperationsisdelayedbeyond

whatisanticipatedortheconversiontoasingledatasystemisnotaccomplishedonatimelybasis.
DifficultyinintegratinganacquiredcompanymaycauseBB&Tnottorealizeexpectedrevenueincreases,costsavings,
increasesingeographicorproductpresenceand/orotherprojectedbenefitsfromtheacquisition.Theintegrationcould

resultinhigherthanexpecteddepositattrition,lossofkeyemployees,disruptionofBB&T’sbusinessesorthebusinesses
25oftheacquiredcompany,orotherwiseadverselyaffectBB&T’sabilitytomaintainrelationshipswithcustomersand
employeesorachievetheanticipatedbenefitsoftheacquisition.Also,thenegativeeffectofanydivestituresrequiredby

regulatoryauthoritiesinacquisitionsorbusinesscombinationsmaybegreaterthanexpected.
ITEM2.PROPERTIES
BB&Tanditssignificantsubsidiariesoccupyheadquarterofficesthatareeitherownedoroperatedunderlong-term
leases.BB&Talsoownsfree-standingoperationscenters,withitsprimaryoperationsandinformationtechnologycenter

locatedinWilson,NorthCarolina.BB&TalsoownsorleasessignificantofficespaceusedastheCorporation’s

headquartersinWinston-Salem,NorthCarolina.AtDecember31,2011,BranchBankoperated1,779branchofficesin

NorthCarolina,SouthCarolina,Virginia,Maryland,Georgia,WestVirginia,Tennessee,Kentucky,Alabama,Florida,

Texas,IndianaandWashington,D.C.BB&Talsooperatesnumerousinsuranceagenciesandotherbusinessesthatoccupy

facilities.Officelocationsareeitherownedorleased.ManagementbelievesthatthepremisesoccupiedbyBB&Tandits

subsidiariesarewell-locatedandsuitablyequippedtoserveasfinancialservicesfacilities.SeeNote5“Premisesand

Equipment”inthe“NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements”inthisreportforadditionaldisclosuresrelatedto

BB&T’spropertiesandotherfixedassets.
ITEM5.MARKETFORREGISTRANT’SCOMMONEQUITY,RELATEDSTOCKHOLDERMATTERSAND
ISSUERPURCHASESOFEQUITYSECURITIES
BB&T’scommonstockistradedontheNewYorkStockExchange(“NYSE”)underthesymbol“BBT.”BB&T’s
commonstockwasheldbyapproximately293,000shareholdersatDecember31,2011comparedtoapproximately

355,000atDecember31,2010.Theaccompanyingtable,“QuarterlySummaryofMarketPricesandDividendsDeclared

onCommonStock,”setsforththequarterlyhighandlowtradingpricesandclosingsalespricesforBB&T’scommon

stockandthedividendsdeclaredpershareofcommonstockforeachofthelasteightquarters.
Table3
QuarterlySummaryofMarketPricesandCashDividendsDeclaredonCommonStock
20112010SalesPrices
CashSalesPrices
CashDividendsDividends
HighLowLastDeclared(1)
HighLowLastDeclaredQuarterEnded:
March31$29.60$25.95$27.45$0.17$32.93$25.40$32.39$0.15

June3027.8125.2426.840.1635.7226.1826.310.15

September3027.3618.9221.330.1628.6921.7224.080.15

December3125.5719.7625.170.1627.5722.1526.290.15
Year$29.60$18.92$25.17$0.65$35.72$21.72$26.29$0.60
(1)Firstquarterof2011includedaspecial$0.01dividend.
CommonStockandDividends
BB&T’sabilitytopaydividendsisprimarilydependentonearningsfromoperations,theadequacyofcapitalandthe
availabilityofliquidassetsfordistribution.BB&T’sabilitytogenerateliquidassetsfordistributionisdependentonthe

abilityofBranchBanktopaydividendstotheParentCompany.Thepaymentofcashdividendsisanintegralpartof

providingacompetitivereturnonshareholders’investments.TheCorporation’spolicyistoaccomplishthiswhile

retainingsufficientcapitaltosupportfuturegrowthandtomeetregulatoryrequirements.Managementhasestablisheda

guidelinethatduringnormaleconomicconditionsthecommondividendpayoutratiowillbebetween30%and50%of

basicearningspershare.BB&T’scommondividendpayoutratio,computedbydividingdividendsdeclaredpercommon

sharebybasicearningspercommonshare,was35.14%in2011comparedto50.85%in2010.BB&Thaspaidacash

dividendtoshareholderseveryyearsince1903.AdiscussionofdividendrestrictionsisincludedinNote16“Regulatory

RequirementsandOtherRestrictions”inthe“NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements”andinthe“Regulatory

Considerations”section.
26ReplacementCapitalCovenant
Asfurtherdescribedbelowandreflectedinthetable,BB&Thasenteredintoatransactioninvolvingtheissuanceof
capitalsecurities(“CapitalSecurities”)byaDelawarestatutorytrustformedbytheCompany(the“Trust”).

Simultaneouslywiththeclosingofthistransaction,BB&Tenteredintoareplacementcapitalcovenant(the“Replacement

CapitalCovenant”)forthebenefitofpersonsthatbuy,holdorsellaspecifiedseriesoflong-termindebtednessofthe

Companyoritslargestdepositoryinstitutionsubsidiary(the“SpecifiedDebt”).TheReplacementCapitalCovenantwas

amendedeffectiveNovember18,2011andprovidesthatneitherBB&Tnoranyofitssubsidiaries(includingtheTrust)

willrepay,redeemorpurchaseanyoftheCapitalSecuritiesandthesecuritiesheldbytheTrust(the“OtherSecurities”),

asapplicable,onorbeforethedatespecifiedintheReplacementCapitalCovenant,withcertainlimitedexceptions,except

totheextentthat,priortothedateofthatrepayment,redemptionorpurchase,theCompanyhasreceivedproceedsfrom

thesaleofqualifyingsecuritiesthat(i)haveequity-likecharacteristicsthatarethesameas,ormoreequity-likethan,the

applicablecharacteristicsoftheCapitalSecuritiesorOtherSecurities,asapplicable,atthetimeofrepayment,redemption

orpurchase,and(ii)theCompanyhasobtainedthepriorapprovaloftheFederalReserveBoard,ifsuchapprovalisthen

requiredbytheFederalReserveBoard.
Thefollowingtableidentifiesthe(i)closingdateforthetransaction,(ii)issuer,(iii)seriesofCapitalSecuritiesissued,
(iv)OtherSecurities,and(v)applicableSpecifiedDebt.
ClosingDateIssuerCapitalSecurities
OtherSecurities
SpecifiedDebt
6/12/07BB&TCapitalTrustIV
andBB&TCorporation
BB&TCapitalTrust
IV’s$600,000,000

FixedtoFloatingRate

CapitalSecurities
Company’s$600,010,000Fixedto

FloatingRateJunior

Subordinated
Debenturesdue2077
Company’s6.75%
juniorsubordinated

debenturesdue2036

underlyingthe6.75%

capitalsecuritiesof

BB&TCapitalTrustII
ShareRepurchases
BB&Thasperiodicallyrepurchasedsharesofitsowncommonstock.InaccordancewithNorthCarolinalaw,repurchased
sharescannotbeheldastreasurystock,butreverttothestatusofauthorizedandunissuedsharesuponrepurchase.
OnJune27,2006,BB&T’sBoardofDirectorsgrantedauthorityunderaplan(the“2006Plan”)fortherepurchaseofup
to50millionsharesofBB&T’scommonstockasneededforgeneralcorporatepurposes.The2006Planalsoauthorizes

therepurchaseoftheremainingsharesfromthepreviousauthorization.The2006Planremainsineffectuntilallthe

authorizedsharesarerepurchasedunlessmodifiedbytheBoardofDirectors.Noshareswererepurchasedinconnection

withthe2006Planduring2011,2010or2009.
Table4
ShareRepurchaseActivity
TotalSharesRepurchased(1)
AveragePricePaid
PerShare(2)
TotalSharesPurchased
Pursuantto
Publicly-AnnouncedPlan
MaximumRemaining
NumberofShares
AvailableforRepurchase
Pursuantto
Publicly-AnnouncedPlan
(Sharesinthousands)
October1-31,20115$21.79—44,139
November1-30,2011323.21—44,139

December1-31,2011122.91—44,139
Total922.39—44,139
(1)Repurchasesreflectsharesexchangedorsurrenderedinconnectionwiththeexerciseofequity-basedawardsunder
BB&T’sequity-basedcompensationplans.
(2)Excludescommissions.
27EquityCompensationPlanInformation
Thefollowingtableprovidesinformationconcerningsecuritiestobeissuedupontheexerciseofoutstandingequity-based
awards,theweightedaveragepriceofsuchawardsandthesecuritiesremainingavailableforfutureissuanceasof

December31,2011.
Table5
EquityCompensationPlanInformation
PlanCategory
(a)(1)Numberofsecurities
tobeissuedupon
exerciseofoutstanding
options,warrantsandrights
(b)(1)Weighted-averageexercisepriceof
outstandingoptions,
warrantsandrights
(c)(1)(2)Numberofsecurities
remainingavailable
forfutureissuance
underequitycompensation
plans(excludingsecuritiesreflectedin(a))
Equitycompensationplans
approvedbysecurityholders58,767,079$26.5415,178,044
Equitycompensationplansnot
approvedbysecurityholders———
Total58,767,07926.5415,178,044
(1)Thetableabovedoesnotinclude80,105optionsoutstandingatDecember31,2011,ataweighted-averageexercise
priceof$29.54,whichareadministeredunderFirstVirginiaoptionplansthatwereassumedbyBB&Tinits

acquisitionbymergerofFirstVirginia.NofutureoptionswillbeissuedundertheFirstVirginiaplans.
(2)AllawardsremainingavailableforfutureissuancewillbeissuedunderthetermsoftheBB&TCorporation2004
StockIncentivePlan,asamendedbytheCorporation’sshareholdersatthe2009AnnualMeetingofShareholders.
PerformanceGraph
Setforthbelowisagraphcomparingthetotalreturns(assumingreinvestmentofdividends)ofBB&TCommonStock,the
S&P500Index,andanIndustryPeerGroupIndex.Thegraphassumes$100investedonDecember31,2006inBB&T

CommonStockandineachoftheindices.In2011,thefinancialholdingcompaniesintheIndustryPeerGroupIndex(the

“PeerGroup”)wereComericaIncorporated,Fifth-ThirdBancorp,HuntingtonBancshares,Incorporated,KeyCorp,M&T

BankCorporation,PNCFinancialServicesGroup,Inc.,RegionsFinancialCorporation,SunTrustBanks,Inc.,U.S.

BancorpandZionsBancorporation.ThePeerGroupconsistsoffinancialandbankholdingcompanieswithassetsbetween

approximately$50billionand$350billionasofDecember31,2011.
28Comparisonof5YearCumulativeTotalReturn*
AmongBB&TCorporation,theS&P500Index,
andBB&T’sPeerGroup
05010015020012/0612/0712/0812/0912/1012/11
DollarsBB&T CorporationS&P 500BB&T™s Peer Group*$100investedon12/31/06instockorindex,includingreinvestmentofdividends.FiscalyearendingDecember31.
CumulativeTotalReturn
12/0612/0712/0812/0912/1012/11BB&TCorporation$100.00$72.87$69.72$68.40$72.45$71.09
S&P500100.00105.4966.5884.2096.8998.94

BB&T’sPeerGroup100.0077.8049.2345.9760.2353.40
29ITEM6.SELECTEDFINANCIALDATA(1)
(Dollarsinmillions,exceptpersharedata,sharesinthousands)
FiveYear
CompoundGrowthRate
Asof/FortheYearsEndedDecember31,
201120102009200820072006SummaryofOperations:
Interestincome$6,885$7,115$6,884$7,207$7,894$6,893—%

Interestexpense1,3781,7952,0402,9694,0143,185(15.4)
Netinterestincome5,5075,3204,8444,2383,8803,7088.2

Provisionforcreditlosses1,1902,6382,8111,44544824037.7
Netinterestincomeafter
provisionforcreditlosses4,3172,6822,0332,7933,4323,4684.5
Noninterestincome3,1133,9573,9343,1972,7742,5214.3

Noninterestexpense5,8025,6704,9313,9113,6243,51110.6
Incomebeforeincometaxes1,6289691,0362,0792,5822,478(8.1)

Provisionforincometaxes296115159550836945(20.7)
Netincome1,3328548771,5291,7461,533(2.8)
Noncontrollinginterest4338241012553.8

Dividendsandaccretionon
preferredstock——12421——NM
Netincomeavailableto
commonshareholders$1,289$816$729$1,498$1,734$1,528(3.3)
PerCommonShare:
Averagesharesoutstanding:
Basic696,532692,489629,583548,847547,184539,1405.3

Diluted705,168701,039635,619552,498551,755543,8915.3
Earnings:Basic$1.85$1.18$1.16$2.73$3.17$2.84(8.2)

Diluted1.831.161.152.713.142.81(8.2)
Cashdividendsdeclared(2)0.650.600.921.871.801.64(16.9)

Bookvalue24.9823.6723.4723.1623.1421.692.9
AverageBalances:
Securities,atamortizedcost$29,923$27,610$31,226$23,402$21,731$20,1108.3

Loansandleases(3)105,962104,787102,14695,19587,95279,3136.0

Otherassets27,08127,26121,81018,28416,73714,90512.7
Totalassets$162,966$159,658$155,182$136,881$126,420$114,3287.3
Deposits$112,318$106,773$102,381$88,831$83,501$77,2307.8

Long-termdebt22,25721,65319,08519,83918,04514,6288.8

Otherliabilities11,12414,34617,47814,67812,65910,9390.3

Shareholders’equity17,26716,88616,23813,53312,21511,5318.4
Totalliabilitiesand
shareholders’equity$162,966$159,658$155,182$136,881$126,420$114,3287.3
5.3Period-EndBalances:
Totalassets$174,579$157,081$165,764$152,015$132,618$121,3517.5

Loansandleases(3)111,205107,264106,20798,66991,68683,5915.9

Deposits124,939107,213114,96598,61386,76680,9719.1

Long-termdebt21,80321,73021,37618,03218,69315,9046.5

Shareholders’equity17,48016,49816,24116,08112,66411,8268.1
SelectedRatios:
Rateofreturnon:
Averagetotalassets0.82%0.54%0.56%1.12%1.38%1.34%

Averagecommon
equity7.494.854.9311.4414.2513.35
Averagetotalequity7.715.065.4011.3014.3013.30
Dividendpayout35.1450.8579.3168.5056.7857.75

Averageequitytoaverage
assets10.6010.5810.469.899.6610.09
(1)AmountsincludetheimpactoftheColonialacquisitionwhichwascompletedonAugust14,2009.
(2)2011includedaspecial$0.01dividend.

(3)Loansandleasesarenetofunearnedincomeandincludeloansheldforsale.
30ITEM7.MANAGEMENT’SDISCUSSIONANDANALYSISOFFINANCIALCONDITIONANDRESULTSOF
OPERATIONSExecutiveOverview
Significantaccomplishmentsin2011
IntheopinionofBB&T’smanagement,theCorporation’smostsignificantaccomplishmentsduring2011wereasfollows:
•Creditqualityimprovedsignificantly–nonperformingassets,excludingcoveredforeclosedproperty,declined
$1.5billion,or38.3%
•Increasedcashdividendasaresultofimprovedearnings–maintainedoneofthehighestdividendyieldsofthe
19stresstestedbanks
•Totalendofperioddepositsincreased16.5%–miximprovedwith24.5%growthinnoninterest-bearingdeposits

•Totalendofperiodloansincreased3.7%–growthacceleratedduringtheyearanddiversificationimprovedwith
lessexposuretohigher-riskrealestateloans
•Strongperformanceinspecializedlending,largecorporatebanking,wealthmanagement,paymentservices,
directretaillendingandmortgageproduction
•Continuedtoenhanceriskmanagementstructure
ChallengesBB&T’sbusinesshasbecomemoredynamicandcomplexinrecentyears.Consequently,managementhasannuallyevaluated
and,asnecessary,adjustedtheCorporation’sbusinessstrategyinthecontextofthecurrentoperatingenvironment.Duringthis

process,managementconsidersthecurrentfinancialconditionandperformanceoftheCompanyanditsexpectationsforfuture

economicactivity,bothonanationalandlocalmarketscale.TheachievementofBB&T’skeystrategicobjectivesand

establishedlong-termfinancialgoalsissubjecttomanyuncertaintiesandchallenges.Intheopinionofmanagement,the

challengesthataremostrelevantandlikelytohaveaneartermimpactonperformancearepresentedbelow:
•SlowgrowthintheU.S.economyandeconomicimpactfromEuropeancrisis

•Intensecompetitionwithinthefinancialservicesindustry

•Costandriskassociatedwiththeregulatoryinitiatives
OverviewofSignificantEventsandFinancialResults
Theyear2011wasanoutstandingyearforBB&Tconsideringthechallengesfacingtheeconomyandfinancialservices
industry.TheCompanymadesignificantprogresstowardsemergingfromthecreditcycle.Inaddition,loananddeposit

growthimprovedthroughouttheyear,alongwithanimproveddiversificationmix.
Consolidatednetincomeavailabletocommonshareholdersfor2011totaled$1.3billion,anincreaseof$473million,or
58.0%,comparedto$816millionearnedduring2010.Onadilutedpercommonsharebasis,earningsfor2011were$1.83,

comparedto$1.16for2010.BB&T’sresultsofoperationsfor2011producedareturnonaverageassetsof0.82%anda

returnonaveragecommonshareholders’equityof7.49%comparedtoprioryearratiosof0.54%and4.85%,respectively.
BB&T’srevenuesfor2011were$8.8billion,onatax-equivalentbasis,whichwasdown6.9%comparedto2010.This
wasprimarilyduetolowernoninterestincomeinthecurrentyear.Themajorityofthedeclineinnoninterestincomewas

duetofewernetsecuritiesgainsandadeclineinFDIClossshareincome.Netinterestincome,onataxable-equivalent

basis,wasup3.6%comparedto2010,duetoassetgrowthandahighernetinterestmargin.Theimprovementinthenet

interestmarginreflectshigheryieldsonassetsacquiredintheColonialacquisitionandlowerfundingcosts.
Creditcostsimprovedsignificantlyduring2011,asnonperformingassets,excludingcoveredforeclosedproperty,
declined$1.5billion,or38.3%,comparedtoyear-end2010andtheoverallqualityoftheloanportfolioimproved.BB&T

recordeda$1.2billionprovisionforcreditlossesin2011comparedtoa$2.6billionprovisionforcreditlossesrecorded
31during2010.Netcharge-offsfor2011totaled$1.7billioncomparedto$2.5billionfor2010.Netcharge-offsfor2011and
2010included$87millionand$605million,respectively,relatedtothenonperformingassetsdispositionstrategy

managementbeganinthesecondquarterof2010andcompletedduringthefourthquarterof2011.Inaddition,therewere

$149millionand$90millionoflossesinnoninterestincomerelatedtosalesandwrite-downsoncommercialloansheld

forsaleduring2011and2010,respectively.Foreclosedpropertyexpensesremainedelevatedin2011,andtotaled$802

millioncomparedto$747millionin2010.Managementrecordedadditionalwrite-downsduringthelatter-halfof2011to

accelerateitsdispositioneffortsrelatedtoforeclosedproperty.
BB&T’stotalassetsatDecember31,2011were$174.6billion,anincreaseof$17.5billion,or11.1%,comparedto
December31,2010.Thegrowthintotalassetsreflectsanincreaseof$13.2billioninthetotalsecuritiesportfolioand$3.9

billionintotalloansandleases.Theincreaseinthesecuritiesportfoliowasduetostrongdepositgrowthand

management’sstrategytocomplywiththeproposedBaselIIIliquidityguidelines.Growthintotalloansandleases

acceleratedduringtheyear,asimproveddemandoutpacedtherunoffportfolios.
TotaldepositsatDecember31,2011were$124.9billion,anincreaseof$17.7billion,or16.5%,fromDecember31,
2010.Theincreaseindepositswasprimarilyduetostronggrowthinnoninterest-bearingandinterest-bearingbalances

fromhigh-qualitycorporateclients,aspartofmanagement’seffortstocomplywiththeproposedBaselIIIliquidity

guidelines.BB&Thascontinuedtoimprovethedepositmixwithnoninterest-bearingaccountsrepresenting20.6%oftotal

depositsatDecember31,2011,comparedwith19.2%atDecember31,2010.
Totalshareholders’equityincreased6.0%comparedtoDecember31,2010.BB&T’scommonequityincreasedprimarily
asaresultofretainedearnings.TheTier1commonratiowas9.7%atDecember31,2011comparedto9.1%at

December31,2010.Inaddition,theTier1risk-basedcapitalandtotalrisk-basedcapitalratioswere12.5%and15.7%at

December31,2011,respectively.BB&T’srisk-basedandtangiblecapitalratiosremainwellaboveregulatorystandards

forwell-capitalizedbanks.AsofDecember31,2011,measuresoftangiblecapitalwerenotrequiredbytheregulatorsand,

therefore,wereconsiderednon-GAAPmeasures.Refertothesectiontitled“Capital”hereinforadiscussionofhow

BB&TcalculatesandusesthesemeasuresintheevaluationoftheCompany.
OnNovember1,2011,BB&TannouncedthatithadenteredintoanagreementtoacquireFortLauderdale,Florida-based
BankAtlantic,awholly-ownedsubsidiaryofBankAtlanticBancorp.Underthetermsoftheagreement,BB&Twillacquire

approximately$2.1billioninloansandassumeapproximately$3.3billionindepositsforanestimatedpremiumof$301million

abovethenetassetvalueofBankAtlanticatclosing.Thisrepresentsa9.05%depositpremiumbasedonSeptember30,2011

balances.TheacquisitionexcludesallofBankAtlantic’snonperformingandothercriticizedassetsidentifiedatSeptember30,

2011.NoBankAtlanticBancorpobligationsarebeingassumedinthetransaction.ThepremiumtobepaidbyBB&Tissubject

toadjustmentbasedonactualdepositbalancesatclose,butinnoeventwillitexceed$316million.Excludingone-timemerger

costs,BB&Texpectsthetransactiontobeaccretivetoearningspersharein2012.Thetransactionwasapprovedbytheboards

ofdirectorsofbothcompanies.Federalandstateregulatoryapprovalswillberequired.
BB&Talsohasrecentlyannouncedtheacquisitionsofseveralinsuranceagencies.Earlyin2012,BB&Tannouncedthe
acquisitionofthelifeandpropertyandcasualtyinsuranceoperatingdivisionsofRoseland,NewJersey-basedCrump

GroupInc.for$570millionincash.Crumpisthelargestindependentwholesaledistributoroflifeinsuranceandoneof

thelargestprovidersofwholesalecommercialinsurancebrokerageandspecialtyprogramsintheU.S.Thetransaction,

whichexceedsBB&T’sminimumacquisitioncriteria,isexpectedtoaddapproximately$300millioninannualrevenue

andapproximately$570millionofintangibleassetstoBB&TInsurance.Thetransaction,whichissubjecttoregulatory

approval,doesnotincludeCrump’sretirementservicesbusiness(Ascensus).Duringthethirdandfourthquartersof2011,

BB&TannouncedtheacquisitionsofLibertyBenefitInsuranceServices(“Liberty”)ofSanJose,California,AtlanticRisk

ManagementCorporation(“AtlanticRisk”)ofColumbia,MarylandandthePreceptGroup(“Precept”),withofficesin

IrvineandSanRamon,California.Libertyisafull-serviceemployeebenefitsbrokerthatpartnerswithlargecommercial

clientstoassistthemwithmanagingrisinghealthcarecosts,changingregulationsandcomplexbenefitsadministration.

AtlanticRiskisacommercialpropertyandcasualtyandemployeebenefitsbrokerthatprovidesriskmanagement

consultingandafullarrayofbusinessinsuranceproductsandservices.Preceptservesmiddle-marketandlargecorporate

clients,rangingfrom50to50,000employees,withbenefitsconsulting,procurement,administrationoutsourcing,health

management,retirementandonlineenrollmentservices.
32ReclassificationsIncertaincircumstances,reclassificationshavebeenmadetopriorperiodinformationtoconformtothe2011
presentation.Suchreclassificationshadnoeffectonpreviouslyreportedshareholders’equityornetincome.
CriticalAccountingPolicies
TheaccountingandreportingpoliciesofBB&TCorporationanditssubsidiariesareinaccordancewithaccounting
principlesgenerallyacceptedintheUnitedStatesofAmerica(“GAAP”)andconformtotheaccountingandreporting

guidelinesprescribedbybankregulatoryauthorities.BB&T’sfinancialpositionandresultsofoperationsareaffectedby

management’sapplicationofaccountingpolicies,includingestimates,assumptionsandjudgmentsmadetoarriveatthe

carryingvalueofassetsandliabilitiesandamountsreportedforrevenuesandexpenses.Differentassumptionsinthe

applicationofthesepoliciescouldresultinmaterialchangesinBB&T’sconsolidatedfinancialpositionand/or

consolidatedresultsofoperationsandrelateddisclosures.Themorecriticalaccountingandreportingpoliciesinclude

BB&T’saccountingfortheallowanceforcreditlosses,determiningfairvalueoffinancialinstruments,intangibleassets

andotherpurchaseaccountingrelatedadjustmentsassociatedwithmergersandacquisitions,costsandbenefitobligations

associatedwithBB&T’spensionandpostretirementbenefitplans,andincometaxes.UnderstandingBB&T’saccounting

policiesisfundamentaltounderstandingBB&T’sconsolidatedfinancialpositionandconsolidatedresultsofoperations.

Accordingly,BB&T’ssignificantaccountingpoliciesandchangesinaccountingprinciplesandeffectsofnewaccounting

pronouncementsarediscussedindetailinNote1“SummaryofSignificantAccountingPolicies”inthe“Notesto

ConsolidatedFinancialStatements.”
ThefollowingisasummaryofBB&T’scriticalaccountingpoliciesthatarehighlydependentonestimates,assumptions
andjudgments.ThesecriticalaccountingpoliciesarereviewedwiththeAuditCommitteeofBB&T’sBoardofDirectors

onaperiodicbasis.
AllowanceforCreditLosses
ItisthepolicyofBB&Ttomaintainanallowanceforloanandleaselossesandareserveforunfundedlending
commitmentsthatrepresentmanagement’sbestestimateofprobablecreditlossesinherentintheportfolioatthebalance

sheetdate.Estimatesforloanandleaselossesaredeterminedbyanalyzinghistoricalloanandleaselosses,historicalloan

andleasemigrationtocharge-offexperience,currenttrendsindelinquenciesandcharge-offs,expectedcashflowson

purchasedloans,currentassessmentofproblemloansandleases,theresultsofregulatoryexaminations,andchangesin

thesize,compositionandriskassessmentoftheloanandleaseportfolio.Forrestructuredloans,defaultexpectationsand

estimatedslowerprepaymentspeedsthatarespecifictoeachoftherestructuredloanpopulationsareincorporatedinthe

determinationoftheallowanceforloanandleaselosses.Alsoincludedinmanagement’sestimatesforloanandlease

lossesareconsiderationswithrespecttotheimpactofcurrenteconomicevents,theoutcomesofwhichareuncertain.

Theseeventsmayinclude,butarenotlimitedto,fluctuationsinoverallinterestrates,politicalconditions,legislationthat

maydirectlyorindirectlyaffectthebankingindustryandeconomicconditionsaffectingspecificgeographicalareasand

industriesinwhichBB&Tconductsbusiness.Themethodologyusedtodetermineanestimateforthereservefor

unfundedlendingcommitmentsisinherentlysimilartothemethodologyusedincalculatingtheallowanceforloansand

leasesadjustedforfactorsspecifictobindingcommitments,includingtheprobabilityoffundingandexposureatthetime

offunding.Adetaileddiscussionofthemethodologyusedindeterminingtheallowanceforloanandleaselossesandthe

reserveforunfundedlendingcommitmentsisincludedinNote1“SummaryofSignificantAccountingPolicies”inthe

“NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements.”
FairValueofFinancialInstruments
AsignificantportionofBB&T’sassetsandcertainliabilitiesarefinancialinstrumentscarriedatfairvalue.Thisincludes
securitiesavailableforsale,tradingsecurities,derivatives,certainloansheldforsale,residentialmortgageservicingrights

andventurecapitalinvestments.AtDecember31,2011,thepercentageoftotalassetsandtotalliabilitiesmeasuredatfair

valueonarecurringbasiswas16.6%and1.0%,respectively.Thevastmajorityofassetsandliabilitiescarriedatfair

valuearebasedoneitherquotedmarketpricesormarketpricesforsimilarinstruments.AtDecember31,2011,6.5%of

assetsmeasuredatfairvalueonarecurringbasiswerebasedonsignificantunobservableinputs.Thisis1.1%ofBB&T’s

totalassets.SeeNote18“FairValueDisclosures”inthe“NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements”hereinfor

additionaldisclosuresregardingthefairvalueoffinancialinstruments.
33SecuritiesThefairvaluesforavailable-for-saleandtradingsecuritiesaregenerallybaseduponobservablemarketpricesforsimilar
instrumentsorquotedmarketprices.BB&Tgenerallyutilizesathird-partypricingserviceindeterminingthefairvalueof

itssecuritiesportfolio.Thepricingserviceusesobservableinputswhenavailableincludingbenchmarkyields,reported

trades,broker-dealerquotes,issuerspreads,benchmarksecurities,bidsandoffers.Thesevaluestakeintoaccountrecent

marketactivityaswellasothermarketobservabledatasuchasinterestrate,spreadandprepaymentinformation.

Managementperformsvariousprocedurestoevaluatetheaccuracyofthefairvaluesprovidedbythethird-partyservice.

Theseproceduresincludeback-testingtocomparethepricerealizedonsecuritysalestothedailypricinginformation

receivedfromthethirdpartypricingservice,comparisonofasampleofpricinginformationreceivedfromthethirdparty

pricingservicetootherthirdpartypricingsources,andreviewofadditionalinformationprovidedbythethirdparty

pricingserviceforselectedsecurities.Whenmarketobservabledataisnotavailable,whichgenerallyoccursduetothe

lackofliquidityforcertainsecurities,thevaluationofthesecurityissubjectiveandmayinvolvesubstantialjudgmentby

management.AsofDecember31,2011,BB&Thadapproximately$984millionofavailable-for-salesecurities,whichis

lessthan1%oftotalassets,valuedusingunobservableinputs.Thistotalisalmostentirelynon-agencymortgage-backed

securitiesthatarecoveredbyalosssharingagreementwiththeFDIC.
BB&Tperiodicallyreviewsavailable-for-salesecuritieswithanunrealizedloss.Anunrealizedlossexistswhenthe
currentfairvalueofanindividualsecurityislessthanitsamortizedcostbasis.Thepurposeofthereviewistoconsider

thelengthoftimeandtheextenttowhichthemarketvalueofasecurityhasbeenbelowitsamortizedcost.Theprimary

factorsBB&Tconsidersindeterminingwhetheranimpairmentisother-than-temporaryarelong-termexpectationsand

recentexperienceregardingprincipalandinterestpayments,andBB&T’sintenttosellandwhetheritismorelikelythan

notthattheCompanywouldberequiredtosellthosesecuritiesbeforetheanticipatedrecoveryoftheamortizedcostbasis.
MortgageServicingRights
BB&Thasasignificantmortgageloanservicingportfolioandrelatedmortgageservicingrights(“MSRs”).BB&Thas
twoprimaryclassesofMSRsforwhichitseparatelymanagestheeconomicrisk:residentialandcommercial.Residential

MSRsareprimarilycarriedatfairvaluewithchangesinfairvaluerecordedasacomponentofmortgagebankingincome

eachperiod.BB&Tusesvariousderivativeinstrumentstomitigatetheincomestatementeffectofchangesinfairvalue,

duetochangesinvaluationinputsandassumptions,ofitsresidentialMSRs.MSRsdonottradeinanactive,openmarket

withreadilyobservableprices.WhilesalesofMSRsdooccur,theprecisetermsandconditionstypicallyarenotreadily

available.Accordingly,BB&TestimatesthefairvalueofresidentialMSRsusinganoptionadjustedspread(“OAS”)

valuationmodeltoprojectMSRcashflowsovermultipleinterestratescenarios,whicharethendiscountedatrisk-

adjustedrates.TheOASmodelconsidersportfoliocharacteristics,contractuallyspecifiedservicingfees,prepayment

assumptions,delinquencyrates,latecharges,otherancillaryrevenue,coststoserviceandothereconomicfactors.BB&T

reassessesandperiodicallyadjuststheunderlyinginputsandassumptionsintheOASmodeltoreflectmarketconditions

andassumptionsthatamarketparticipantwouldconsiderinvaluingtheMSRasset.Whenavailable,fairvalueestimates

andassumptionsarecomparedtoobservablemarketdataandtorecentmarketactivityandactualportfolioexperience.

Duetothenatureofthevaluationinputs,MSRsareclassifiedwithinLevel3ofthevaluationhierarchy.Thevalueof

MSRsissignificantlyaffectedbymortgageinterestratesavailableinthemarketplace,whichinfluencemortgageloan

prepaymentspeeds.Ingeneral,duringperiodsofdeclininginterestrates,thevalueofMSRsdeclinesduetoincreasing

prepaymentsattributabletoincreasedmortgage-refinanceactivity.Conversely,duringperiodsofrisinginterestrates,the

valueofMSRsgenerallyincreasesduetoreducedrefinanceactivity.CommercialMSRsarecarriedatthelowerofcostor

marketandamortizedovertheestimatedperiodthatservicingincomeisexpectedtobereceivedbasedonprojectionsof

theamountandtimingofestimatedfuturecashflows.Theamountandtimingofservicingassetamortizationisbasedon

actualresultsandupdatedprojections.Inaddition,BB&Thasapproximately$14millionofresidentialMSRsthatare

valuedatthelowerofcostormarket.TheseMSRsareassociatedwithgovernmentsponsoredprogramsthathave

prepaymentassumptionsthataredifficulttomodel,whichmakeitdifficulttohedgetheassociatedrisk.RefertoNote7

“LoanServicing”inthe“NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements”forquantitativedisclosuresreflectingtheeffectthat

changesinmanagement’sassumptionswouldhaveonthefairvalueofMSRs.
LoansHeldforSale
BB&Toriginatescertainmortgageloanstobesoldtoinvestorsthatarecarriedatfairvalue.Thefairvalueisprimarily
basedonquotedmarketpricesforsecuritiesbackedbysimilartypesofloans.Changesinthefairvaluearerecordedasa

componentofmortgagebankingincomewhilemortgageloanoriginationcostsforloansheldforsaleforwhichthe

CorporationelectedtheFairValueOptionarerecognizedinnoninterestexpensewhenincurred.Thechangesinfairvalue

oftheseassetsarelargelydrivenbychangesininterestratessubsequenttoloanfundingandchangesinthefairvalueof

servicingassociatedwiththemortgageloanheldforsale.BB&Tusesvariousderivativeinstrumentstomitigatethe

economiceffectofchangesinfairvalueoftheunderlyingloans.
34DerivativeAssetsandLiabilities
BB&Tusesderivativestomanagevariousfinancialrisks.Thefairvaluesofderivativefinancialinstrumentsare
determinedbasedonquotedmarketprices,dealerquotesandinternalpricingmodelsthatareprimarilysensitivetomarket

observabledata.BB&Tmitigatesthecreditriskbysubjectingcounterpartiestocreditreviewsandapprovalssimilarto

thoseusedinmakingloansandotherextensionsofcredit.Inaddition,certaincounterpartiesarerequiredtoprovide

collateraltoBB&Twhentheirunsecuredlosspositionsexceedcertainnegotiatedlimits.Thefairvalueofinterestrate

lockcommitments,whicharerelatedtomortgageloancommitments,isbasedonquotedmarketpricesadjustedfor

commitmentsthatBB&Tdoesnotexpecttofundandincludesthevalueattributabletothenetservicingfee.
VentureCapitalandSimilarInvestments
BB&Thasventurecapitalandsimilarinvestmentsthatarecarriedatfairvalue.Changesinthefairvalueofthese
investmentsarerecordedinothernoninterestincomeeachperiod.Inmanycasestherearenoobservablemarketvaluesfor

theseinvestmentsandmanagementmustestimatethefairvaluebasedonacomparisonoftheoperatingperformanceof

thecompanytomultiplesinthemarketplaceforsimilarentities.Thisanalysisrequiressignificantjudgmentandactual

valuesinasalecoulddiffermateriallyfromthoseestimated.AsofDecember31,2011,BB&Thad$261millionofthese

investments,whichislessthan1%oftotalassets.
IntangibleAssets
BB&T’smergersandacquisitionsareaccountedforusingtheacquisitionmethodofaccounting.Undertheacquisition
method,BB&Tisrequiredtorecordtheassetsacquired,includingidentifiedintangibleassets,andliabilitiesassumedat

theirfairvalue,whichofteninvolvesestimatesbasedonthirdpartyvaluations,suchasappraisals,orinternalvaluations

basedondiscountedcashflowanalysesorothervaluationtechniques,allofwhichareinherentlysubjective.The

amortizationofidentifiedintangibleassetsisbasedupontheestimatedeconomicbenefitstobereceived,whichisalso

subjective.Acquisitionstypicallyresultingoodwill,whichissubjecttoongoingperiodicimpairmenttestsbasedonthe

fairvalueofnetassetsacquiredcomparedtotheircarryingvalue.RefertoNote1inthe“NotestoConsolidatedFinancial

Statements”foradescriptionofBB&T’simpairmenttestingprocess.Whiletheexcessoffairvalueovercarryingvalueof

somereportingunitsnarrowedduringtheeconomicdownturn,theresultsofBB&T’smostrecentannualgoodwill

impairmentanalysisindicatedthatthefairvalueofeachreportingunitexceededitsrespectivecarryingvaluebyatleast

20%,withtheexceptionofonereportingunit,whichhadallocatedgoodwillofapproximately$3million.Management

considersthesensitivityofthesignificantassumptionsinitsimpairmentanalysisincludingconsiderationofa10%change

inestimatedfuturecashflowsorthediscountrateforeachreportingunit.
PensionandPostretirementBenefitObligations
BB&Toffersvariouspensionplansandpostretirementbenefitplanstoemployees.Thecalculationoftheobligationsand
relatedexpensesundertheseplansrequirestheuseofactuarialvaluationmethodsandassumptions.Actuarialassumptions

usedinthedeterminationoffuturevaluesofplanassetsandliabilitiesaresubjecttomanagementjudgmentandmaydiffer

significantlyifdifferentassumptionsareused.Thediscountrateassumptionusedtomeasurethepostretirementbenefit

obligationsissetbyreferencetopublishedhigh-qualitybondindices,aswellascertainhypotheticalspot-rateyield

curves.Theseyieldcurveswereconstructedfromtheunderlyingbondpriceandyielddatacollectedasoftheplan’s

measurementdateandarerepresentedbyaseriesofannualized,individualdiscountrateswithdurationsrangingfromsix

monthstothirtyyears.EachdiscountrateinthecurvewasderivedfromanequalweightingofthedoubleAorhigher

bonduniverse,apportionedintodistinctmaturitygroups.Fordurationswherenobondmaturitieswereavailable,the

discountratesforthesematuritieswereextrapolatedbasedonhistoricalrelationshipsfromobservabledatainsimilar

markets.Theseindicesandhypotheticalcurvesgiveonlyanindicationoftheappropriatediscountratebecausethecash

flowsofthebondscomprisingtheindicesandcurvesdonotmatchtheprojectedbenefitpaymentstreamoftheplan

precisely.Forthisreason,BB&Talsoconsiderstheindividualcharacteristicsoftheplan,suchasprojectedcashflow

patternsandpaymentdurations,whensettingthediscountrate.Managementevaluatedthesensitivitychangesinthe

expectedreturnonplanassetsandthediscountratewouldhaveonpensionexpensefor2012.Adecreaseof25basis

pointsinthediscountratewouldresultinanadditionalpensionexpenseofapproximately$14millionfor2012.Basedon

thebalanceofplanassetsonDecember31,2011,adecreaseofonepercentintheexpectedreturnonplanassetswould

resultinanincreaseofapproximately$25millioninpensionexpensefor2012.RefertoNote14“BenefitPlans”inthe

“NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements”fordisclosuresrelatedtoBB&T’sbenefitplans.
35IncomeTaxes
ThecalculationofBB&T’sincometaxprovisioniscomplexandrequirestheuseofestimatesandjudgments.Aspartofthe
Company’sanalysisandimplementationofbusinessstrategies,considerationisgiventothetaxlawsandregulationsthatapply

tothespecificfactsandcircumstancesforanytaxpositionunderevaluation.Fortaxpositionsthatareuncertaininnature,

managementdetermineswhetherthetaxpositionismorelikelythannottobesustaineduponexamination.Fortaxpositionsthat

meetthisthreshold,managementthenestimatestheamountofthetaxbenefittorecognizeinthefinancialstatements.

ManagementcloselymonitorstaxdevelopmentsinordertoevaluatetheeffecttheymayhaveontheCompany’soveralltax

positionandtheestimatesandjudgmentsusedindeterminingtheincometaxprovisionandrecordsadjustmentsasnecessary.
AnalysisofResultsofOperations
Consolidatednetincomeavailabletocommonshareholderstotaled$1.3billionfor2011,whichgeneratedbasicearningsper
commonshareof$1.85anddilutedearningspercommonshareof$1.83.Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholdersfor

2010and2009was$816millionand$729million,respectively.Basicearningspercommonsharewere$1.18in2010and

$1.16in2009,whiledilutedearningspercommonsharewere$1.16and$1.15for2010and2009,respectively.
Twoimportantandcommonlyusedmeasuresofbankprofitabilityarereturnonaverageassets(netincomeasa
percentageofaveragetotalassets)andreturnonaveragecommonshareholders’equity(netincomeavailabletocommon

shareholdersasapercentageofaveragecommonshareholders’equity).BB&T’sreturnsonaverageassetswere0.82%,

0.54%,and0.56%fortheyearsendedDecember31,2011,2010and2009,respectively.Thereturnsonaveragecommon

shareholders’equitywere7.49%,4.85%,and4.93%forthelastthreeyears.
NetInterestIncomeandNetInterestMargin
NetinterestincomeisBB&T’sprimarysourceofrevenue.Netinterestincomeisinfluencedbyanumberoffactors,
includingthevolume,mixandmaturityofinterest-earningassetsandinterest-bearingliabilitiesandtheinterestrates

earnedandpaidthereon.Thedifferencebetweenratesearnedoninterest-earningassetsandthecostofthesupporting

funds(withanadjustmentmadetotax-exemptitemstoprovidecomparabilitywithtaxableitems,i.e.,the“FTE”

adjustment)ismeasuredbythenetinterestmargin.
For2011,netinterestincomeonanFTE-adjustedbasistotaled$5.7billion,comparedwith$5.5billionin2010and$5.0
billionin2009.NetinterestincomeonanFTE-adjustedbasisincreased3.6%in2011comparedto2010.Theincreasein

netinterestincomewasdrivenbylowerfundingcosts,whichdeclined$418millioncomparedto2010.Theimprovement

infundingcostsreflectsamorefavorablemixoffundingliabilities,benefitsfromtheacceleratedamortizationof

derivativesthatwereunwoundinagainpositionanddecreasesinratespaidondeposits.Theimprovementinfunding

costsmorethanoffsetloweryieldsonnewloansandsecurities.Inaddition,netinterestincomewashigherduetobetter

performancefromloansandsecuritiesacquiredintheColonialacquisitionascashflowexpectationsimprovedfromthe

priorestimates.Netinterestincomeincreased9.9%in2010comparedto2009.Theincreaseinnetinterestincomeduring

2010resultedprimarilyfromhigherinterestfromthecoveredloanandsecuritiesportfolios,whichwereoutstandingfor

thefullyearof2010comparedtoapartialyearfor2009.Inaddition,thecoveredloanportfolio’syieldincreasedduring

2010asaresultofimprovedexpectationsofcashflowsfromtheoriginalestimates.Netinterestincomefor2010also

benefitedfromlowerfundingcosts,asmanagementgrewnoninterest-bearingdepositsandwasabletoreducehighercost

certificatesandotherinterest-bearingliabilities.
TheFTE-adjustednetinterestmarginistheprimarymeasureusedinevaluatingthegrossprofitmarginfromthe
portfoliosofearningassets.TheFTE-adjustednetinterestmarginwas4.06%in2011,4.03%in2010and3.66%in2009.

Theimprovementinthenetinterestmarginin2011comparedto2010primarilyreflectsthehigheryieldsoncovered

loansandsecuritiesandlowerfundingcosts.During2010,theaverageyieldoninterestearningassetsincreased19basis

pointscomparedtotheaverageyieldduring2009,whiletheaveragecostoffundsoverthesametimeperioddecreased21

basispoints.Theimprovementinthenetinterestmarginduring2010wasprimarilyduetothehigheryieldassetsacquired

intheColonialacquisitionandlowerfundingcosts.
Managementexpectsthenetinterestmargintobeinthe3.85%to3.95%rangeinthefirstquarterof2012duetorunoffof
thecoveredloanportfolio,lowerinvestmentyields,andanoveralllowerinterestrateenvironment.Depositcostsare

expectedtocontinuetotrendlowerin2012,whichwillbenefitnetinterestincome.Therunoffofthecoveredloanswill

alsoresultinaloweroffsettononinterestincomefromtheFDIClossshareasset.Despitethelowernetinterestmargin,

managementexpectsnetinterestincometogrowin2012duetoanincreaseinearningassets.
36TheFTEyieldonthetotalsecuritiesportfoliowas2.67%fortheyearendedDecember31,2011comparedto3.89%for
theprioryear.ThedecreaseintheannualizedFTEyieldontheaveragesecuritiesportfoliowasprimarilytheresultof

management’seffortstodeleverageandde-risktheportfolioduring2010.Thesecuritiespurchasedincludedfloatingrate

andothersecuritieswithloweryields.Theyieldonthesecuritiesportfoliobenefitedfromhigheryieldsoncovered

securitiesduetotheimpactofdurationadjustmentsintheprioryear.
TheaverageannualizedFTEyieldfor2011forthetotalloanportfoliowas5.87%comparedto5.88%fortheprioryear.
TheslightdecreaseintheFTEyieldontheloanportfoliowasprimarilyduetonewloanvolumesoriginatedatlower

rates,partiallyoffsetbytheacquiredloansfromtheColonialtransaction,whichhaveproducedhigheryieldsduetobetter

thanexpectedperformance.
Theaverageratepaidoninterest-bearingdepositsdroppedto0.68%during2011,from1.05%in2010.Theaveragecost
forinterest-bearingdepositsdeclinedduring2011asaresultofthedecreaseinrelativelyhigher-rateCDsand

management’sabilitytolowerratesonotherdepositproducts.
Theratespaidonaverageshort-termborrowingsdeclinedfrom0.28%in2010to0.27%during2011.AtDecember31,2011,
thetargetedFederalfundsratewasarangeofzeropercentto0.25%.Theaveragerateonlong-termdebtduring2011was

3.40%,adecreaseof56basispointscomparedtotheprioryear.Thisreductionwasduetonewissuancesatlowerratesand

thepositiveimpactofacceleratedamortizationfromcertainderivativesthatwereunwoundinagainposition.
Thefollowingtableprovidesinformationrelatedtocoveredandacquiredloans,coveredsecuritiesandtheFDICloss
sharingassetrecognizedintheColonialacquisition.
Table6
Revenue,NetofProvisionImpactfromAcquiredAssets(1)
YearsEndedDecember31,
201120102009(Dollarsinmillions)
Interestincome-loans$1,070$947$238

Interestincome-securities16814250
Totalinterestincome1,2381,089288
Provisionforcoveredloans(71)(144)—

FDIClossshareincome,net(289)(116)14
Netrevenueafterprovisionforcoveredloans$878$829$302
FDIClossshareincome,net:
Offsettoprovisionforcoveredloans$57$115$—

Accretionduetocreditlossimprovement(297)(203)23

Accretionforsecurities(49)(28)(9)
Total$(289)$(116)$14
(1)Presentsamountsrelatedtocoveredandacquiredloans,coveredsecuritiesandtheFDIClosssharingassetrecognizedin
theColonialacquisition.Excludesallamountsrelatedtootherassetsacquiredandliabilitiesassumedintheacquisition.
Interestincomefor2011onloansandsecuritiesacquiredintheColonialacquisitionincreased$149millioncomparedto
2010,whichwasoffsetbyadecreaseinFDIClossshareincome.Themajorityoftheincreaseisrelatedtoloansand

reflectshigherexpectedcashflowsbasedonthequarterlycashflowreassessmentprocess.Theyieldoncoveredandother

acquiredloansfor2011was19.28%comparedto13.26%in2010.AtDecember31,2011,theaccretableyieldbalanceon

theseloanswas$1.8billion.Accretableyieldrepresentstheexcessoffuturecashflowsabovethecurrentnetcarrying

amountofloansandwillberecognizedintoincomeovertheremaininglifeofthecoveredandacquiredloans.The

increaseininterestincomeonsecuritiescomparedtothecorrespondingperiodsoftheprioryearwasprimarilyaresultof

securitydurationadjustmentsintheprioryear,whichisoffsetinFDIClossshareincome.
During2011and2010,BB&Treclassified$334millionand$793million,respectively,fromthenonaccretablebalanceto
accretableyieldforpurchasednonimpairedloans.During2011and2010,BB&Treclassified$45millionand$405million,

respectively,fromthenonaccretablebalancetoaccretableyieldforpurchasedimpairedloans.Thesereclassificationswere
37primarilytheresultofincreasedcashflowestimatesresultingfromimprovedlossexpectations.Theseamountsarerecognized
asprospectiveyieldadjustmentsandresultinincreasedinterestincomeovertheremaininglivesoftheloanpools.
Theprovisionforcoveredloanswas$71millionin2011,adecreaseof$73millioncomparedtothe2010.Theprovision
expensesrecordedduring2011and2010resultedfromthereassessmentprocess,whichshoweddecreasesinexpected

cashflowsincertainloanpoolsthatwerepartiallyoffsetbyrecoveriesinotherpreviouslyimpairedloanpools.
FDIClossshareincome,netdecreased$173millioncomparedto2010primarilyduetotheimpactofcashflow
reassessmentsthatgeneratedadditionalinterestincomeandareductionofamountsduefromtheFDICasaresultof

decreasedlossprojectionsoncoveredloans.
Thefollowingtablesetsforththemajorcomponentsofnetinterestincomeandtherelatedannualizedyieldsandratesfor
2011,2010and2009,aswellasthevariancesbetweentheperiodscausedbychangesininterestratesversuschangesin

volumes.Changesattributabletothemixofassetsandliabilitieshavebeenallocatedproportionallybetweenthechanges

duetorateandthechangesduetovolume.
38Table7
FTENetInterestIncomeandRate/VolumeAnalysis
YearsEndedDecember31,2011,2010and2009
2011vs.2010
2010vs.2009
AverageBalances
Yield/RateIncome/ExpenseIncreaseChangedueto
IncreaseChangedueto
201120102009201120102009201120102009(Decrease)RateVolume(Decrease)RateVolume(Dollarsinmillions)
Assets
Totalsecurities,atamortizedcost:(1)(2)
U.S.government-sponsoredentities(GSE)$288$568$1,4001.52%3.67%3.86%$4$21$54$(17)$(9)$(8)$(33)$(2)$(31)

Mortgage-backedsecuritiesissuedbyGSE25,30522,31025,4191.863.244.144727231,052(251)(338)87(329)(211)(118)

Statesandpoliticalsubdivisions1,8952,0472,2185.725.495.67109112126(3)5(8)(14)(5)(9)

Non-agencymortgage-backedsecurities5281,1741,4476.725.875.82356984(34)9(43)(15)1(16)

Othersecurities6583133021.552.163.90107123(2)5(5)(5)—

Coveredsecurities1,2491,19844013.4611.8411.35168142502620692290
Totalsecurities29,92327,61031,2262.673.894.417981,0741,378(276)(315)39(304)(220)(84)
Otherearningassets(3)3,2072,9332,2930.620.550.79201718312(1)(6)5

Loansandleases,netofunearnedincome:(1)(4)(5)
Commercialloansandleases48,06148,77750,0744.094.234.211,9682,0632,110(95)(65)(30)(47)8(55)

Directretaillending13,80013,94814,7305.115.295.47705737806(32)(24)(8)(69)(27)(42)

Salesfinance7,2026,7666,3924.885.876.46352397413(45)(69)24(16)(39)23

Revolvingcredit2,1062,0321,8558.778.749.511851781767162(15)17

Residentialmortgage18,78215,96515,9274.805.385.7290285991143(99)142(52)(54)2

Otherlendingsubsidiaries8,2807,7787,14111.5111.4611.519538928226145770(4)74

Otheracquired50855234.1016.4310.8117146310(7)844
Totalloansandleasesheldforinvestment(excludingcoveredloans)98,28195,35196,1715.175.395.455,0825,1405,244(58)(242)184(104)(127)2
3Coveredloans5,4987,0593,14419.1513.227.391,053933232120357(237)701272429
Totalloansandleasesheldforinvestment103,779102,41099,3155.915.935.516,1356,0735,47662115(53)597145452
Loansheldforsale2,1832,3772,8313.753.804.818290136(8)(1)(7)(46)(26)(20)
Totalloansandleases105,962104,787102,1465.875.885.496,2176,1635,61254114(60)551119432

Totalearningassets139,092135,330135,6655.065.365.177,0357,2547,008(219)(200)(19)246(107)353
Nonearningassets23,87424,32819,517
Totalassets$162,966$159,658$155,182
LiabilitiesandShareholders’Equity

Interest-bearingdeposits:
Interest-checking$18,614$16,477$14,6880.160.170.223029331(2)3(4)(8)4

Moneymarketandsavings41,28734,94230,0970.310.500.76129175228(46)(74)28(53)(86)33

Certificatesandothertimedeposits28,82533,69938,0831.572.122.61453715994(262)(168)(94)(279)(173)(106)

Foreignofficedeposits-interest-bearing6471,9133,126(0.37)(0.11)0.51(2)(2)16—(2)2(18)(14)(4)
Totalinterest-bearingdeposits89,37387,03185,9940.681.051.486109171,271(307)(246)(61)(354)(281)(73)
Federalfundspurchased,securitiessoldunderrepurchaseagreementsandshort-
termborrowedfunds(1)5,1899,02212,4910.270.280.50142663(12)(1)(11)(37)(23)(14)
Long-termdebt22,25721,65319,0853.403.963.73757856711(99)(122)231454699
Totalinterest-bearingliabilities116,819117,706117,5701.181.531.741,3811,7992,045(418)(369)(49)(246)(258)12
Noninterest-bearingdeposits22,94519,74216,387

Otherliabilities5,9355,3244,987

Shareholders’equity17,26716,88616,238
Totalliabilitiesandshareholders’equity$162,966$159,658$155,182
Averageinterestratespread
3.88%3.83%3.43%
Netinterestmargin/netinterestincome
4.06%4.03%3.66%$5,654$5,455$4,963$199$169$30$492$151$341
Taxable-equivalentadjustment
$147$135$119
(1)Yieldsarestatedonataxableequivalentbasisassumingtaxratesineffectfortheperiodspresented.
(2)Totalsecuritiesincludesecuritiesavailableforsaleandsecuritiesheldtomaturity.

(3)IncludesFederalfundssold,securitiespurchasedunderresaleagreementsorsimilararrangements,interest-bearingdepositswithbanks,tra
dingsecurities,FHLBstockandotherearningassets.
(4)Loanfees,whicharenotmaterialforanyoftheperiodsshown,havebeenincludedforratecalculationpurposes.

(5)Nonaccrualloanshavebeenincludedintheaveragebalances.
39ProvisionforCreditLosses
TheprovisionforcreditlossesrecordedbyBB&Tin2011was$1.2billion,comparedwith$2.6billionin2010and$2.8
billionin2009.Theprovisionforcreditlossesdecreased54.9%during2011.Includedintheprovisionforcreditlosses

during2011was$71millionrelatedtocoveredloans.Theprovisionforcreditlossesrecordedforcoveredloansreflects

lowerexpectedcashflowsoncertainloanpoolscomparedtotheoriginalestimates.Approximately80%ofthisprovision

forcreditlossesisoffsetthroughacredittononinterestincomebasedontheprovisionsoftheFDIClosssharing

agreements.Thedecreaseintheprovisionforcreditlossesduring2011comparedto2010wasprimarilyduetoimproving

credittrendsandoutlook,asnetcharge-offsin2011decreased34.3%comparedtotheprioryear.
Netcharge-offswere1.57%ofaverageloansandleases(or1.59%excludingcoveredloans)for2011comparedto2.41%
ofaverageloansandleases(or2.59%excludingcoveredloans)during2010.Netcharge-offsfor2011included$87

millionrelatedtothetransferandsaleofresidentialmortgageloansinthesecondquarter.Thiscomparesto$605million

ofnetcharge-offsrecordedintheprioryearrelatedtocommercialandresidentialmortgageloansthatweretransferredto

theheldforsaleportfolio.Excludingtheseitems,netcharge-offswere1.50%and1.97%ofaverageloansandleasesfor

2011and2010,respectively.Thelargestdecreasesintheprovisionforcreditlossesfor2011wereinthecommercialand

residentialmortgageportfolios.Thedecreaseintheprovisionforcreditlossesduring2010comparedto2009was

primarilyduetotheimprovingeconomicoutlookthatbegantomaterializeinthelatterpartof2010.
NoninterestIncome
NoninterestincomeisasignificantcontributortoBB&T’sfinancialsuccess.Noninterestincomeincludesinsurance
income,servicechargesondepositaccounts,mortgagebankingincome,investmentbankingandbrokeragefeesand

commissions,trustandinvestmentadvisoryrevenues,gainsandlossesonsecuritiestransactions,andcommissionsand

feesderivedfromotheractivities.Managementcontinuestofocusondiversifyingitssourcesofrevenuetofurtherreduce

BB&T’srelianceontraditionalspread-basedinterestincome,asfee-basedactivitiesarearelativelystablerevenuesource

duringperiodsofchanginginterestrates.
ThefollowingtableprovidesabreakdownofBB&T’snoninterestincome:
Table8
NoninterestIncome
YearsEndedDecember31,
%Change
2011v.20102010v.2009201120102009(Dollarsinmillions)
Insuranceincome$1,044$1,041$1,0470.3%(0.6)%
Servicechargesondeposits563618690(8.9)(10.4)

Mortgagebankingincome436521658(16.3)(20.8)

Investmentbankingandbrokeragefeesandcommissions333352346(5.4)1.7

Checkcardfees271274227(1.1)20.7

Bankcardfeesandmerchantdiscounts20417715615.313.5

Trustandinvestmentadvisoryrevenues1731591398.814.4

Incomefrombank-ownedlifeinsurance12212397(0.8)26.8

FDIClossshareincome,net(289)(116)14149.1NM

Securitiesgains(losses),net62554199(88.8)178.4

Otherincome194254361(23.6)(29.6)
Totalnoninterestincome$3,113$3,957$3,934(21.3)0.6
NM—notmeaningful
40Noninterestincomewas$3.1billionfor2011,down21.3%comparedto2010.Thedeclineinnoninterestrevenuewasdue
tofewersecuritiesgains,lowerincomerelatedtotheFDIClosssharereceivable,lowerservicechargesondeposit

accountsandlowermortgagebankingrevenues,whilebankcardfeesandmerchantdiscountsandtrustandinvestment

advisoryrevenuesgrewcomparedtotheprioryear.Noninterestincomewasupslightlyin2010comparedto2009.The

growthin2010primarilywasaresultofanincreaseinsecuritiesgainsandhigherrevenuesfromcheckcardfees,bankcard

feesandmerchantdiscounts,andtrustandinvestmentadvisoryrevenues,offsetbylowerrevenuesfromBB&T’s

mortgagebankingoperations,lowernoninterestincomefromtheFDIClosssharereceivable,reducedservicechargeson

depositaccountsandlowerrevenuesfromothernoninterestincomesources.Themajorcategoriesofnoninterestincome

andfluctuationsintheseamountsarediscussedinthefollowingparagraphs.Thesefluctuationsincludetheimpactof

acquisitions.IncomefromBB&T’sinsuranceagency/brokerageoperationswasthelargestsourceofnoninterestincome.Insurance
incomewasupslightlyin2011,aspricingforpremiumsremainedsoftthroughouttheyear.Insuranceincomewasdown

slightlyin2010.Insurancecommissionsdeclined$29millionduring2010reflectingcontinuedsoftnessintheindustry’s

pricingforpremiums,whichwaspartiallyoffsetbyanincreaseof$23millionininsuranceincomefromunderwriting

activities.Thedeclineininsurancecommissionswasprimarilyrelatedtopropertyandcasualtyinsurance.
ServicechargesondepositaccountsrepresentBB&T’ssecondlargestcategoryofnoninterestrevenue.Servicecharges
declined$55million,or8.9%,in2011.Servicechargerevenuedeclined$72million,or10.4%,during2010.The

decreasesin2011and2010werelargelyaresultofadeclineinoverdraftfeesasaresultofmid-2010changestoBB&T’s

overdraftpoliciesthatwerepartiallyinresponsetonewregulation.In2011,managementimplementedvariouschangesto

depositrelatedproducts,whichgeneratedadditionalrevenueandpartiallyoffsetthereductioninoverdraftfees.
Incomefrommortgagebankingactivitiesincludesgainsandlossesfromthesaleofmortgageloans,revenuefrom
servicingmortgageloans,valuationadjustmentsformortgageservicingrights,mortgageservicingrights-related

derivativegains/lossesandtheamortizationorrealizationofexpectedmortgageservicingrightscashflows.Mortgage

bankingincometotaled$436million,$521millionand$658millionduring2011,2010and2009,respectively.The

decreaseof$85millionin2011wasprimarilyduetoadeclineof$97millioninresidentialmortgageproductionrevenues

duetolowervolumesandpricingin2011andthedecisioninthethirdquarterof2010toretainaportionof10to15year

mortgageproduction.Thisdeclinewaspartiallyoffsetbyhigherservicingrevenuesasaresultofgrowthintheservicing

portfolioandhigherrevenuesfromcommercialmortgagebankingrevenues.Includedinmortgagebankingincomefor

2011isanegativevaluationadjustmentof$341millionrelatedtochangesinassumptionsforresidentialmortgage

servicingrightsthatarecarriedatfairvalue.Thiswasmorethanoffsetbygainsof$394millionfromderivativefinancial

instrumentsusedtomanagetheeconomicrisk.Approximately$293millionofthedeclineinthevaluationofthe

residentialmortgageservicingrightswasduetoincreasesintheprepaymentspeedassumptionasaresultofadecreasein

interestrates.During2011,managementalsoreviseditsservicingcostassumptionbasedonchangestoregulationsand

industrystandardsthatimpactthemortgageservicingindustry.Thechangeintheservicingcostassumptionresultedina

declineofapproximately$30millioninthevaluationofthemortgageservicingasset.BB&Twasnotapartytothe

consentordersissuedtovariousmortgageservicersinthesecondquarterof2011,howevercertainchangeswillimpact

theentireindustryandareconsideredintheCompany’squarterlyvaluation.Mortgagebankingincomedecreased$137

million,or20.8%,during2010,followingarecordyearin2009.Residentialmortgageproductionincomedeclined$156

millioncomparedwith2009duetolowergainsonsalesinthecurrentyear,asoriginationsdeclinedandtheproportionof

loanssolddecreasedduetoadecisioninthethirdquarterof2010toretainaportionof10to15yearmortgageproduction.

Residentialmortgageservicingincomewasrelativelyflatin2010comparedto2009,asgrowthinservicingfeesof$36

millionfromanincreaseinthesizeoftheloanservicingportfoliowasoffsetbya$35millionunfavorablenetchangein

thevaluationformortgageservicingrightsandrelatedeconomichedgingactivities.Commercialmortgagebanking

incomewasup$21million,or46.7%,in2010duetoimprovedmarketconditions.
Investmentbankingandbrokeragefeesandcommissionsdecreased$19million,or5.4%,comparedto2010,which
increased$6million,or1.7%,comparedto2009.Thedecreasein2011waslargelydrivenbylowerrevenuesatBB&T

CapitalMarkets,adivisionofScott&Stringfellow,duetoweakermarketconditionsduringtheyearandarecordfourth

quarterin2010.Theincreasein2010waslargelydrivenbyrecordfourthquarterperformanceasmarketconditions

temporarilyimprovedandmoreequityandfixedincomedealswerebroughttomarket.
41Checkcardfeesdecreasedslightlyin2011comparedto2010,duetotheDurbinAmendmenttotheDodd-FrankAct,
whichwasimplementedonOctober1,2011.Thedecreaseresultingfromtheimplementationwasmorethanoffsetby

highervolumesduringtheyear.TheDurbinamendmentlimitedtheratebankscouldassessfordebitcardtransactions.In

2010,checkcardfeeswereup$47million,or20.7%,onhighervolumes.
Bankcardfeesandmerchantdiscountsincreased$27millionin2011and$21millionin2010comparedto2009.The
increasedbankcardfeesweretheresultofhighervolumesforbothretailandcommercialbankcardactivities.
Trustandinvestmentadvisoryrevenuesarebasedonthetypesofservicesprovidedaswellastheoverallvalueofthe
assetsmanaged,whichisaffectedbystockmarketconditions.In2011,trustandinvestmentadvisoryrevenuesincreased

$14million,or8.8%,duetoimprovedmarketconditions.During2010,trustandinvestmentadvisoryrevenuesincreased

by$20million,or14.4%,comparedto2009,primarilyduetofeeincreasesandimprovedmarketconditions.
Incomefrombank-ownedlifeinsurancewas$122millionfor2011comparedto$123millionin2010and$97millionin
2009.Theincreasein2010comparedto2009wasprimarilyduetonewpurchasesandexcessdeathproceeds.
FDIClossshareincomereflectstheoffsettotheprovisionforcoveredloans,accretionoftheFDICreceivabledueto
creditlossimprovementandaccretionrelatedtocoveredsecurities.During2011and2010,coveredloansexperienced

betterperformancethanoriginallyanticipatedresultinginadditionalinterestincome.Asignificantportionoftheincreases

ininterestincomefor2011and2010wasoffsetbyreductionsinnoninterestincome.For2011and2010,noninterest

incomewasreducedby$297millionand$203million,respectively,relatedtoimprovementinloanperformance.These

decreasesinincomewerepartiallyoffsetbyincreasesof$57millionand$115million,respectively,whichreflected

approximately80%oftheprovisionforcreditlossesrecordedoncoveredloansfor2011and2010.
BB&Trecognized$62millioninnetsecuritiesgainsduring2011.Thenetsecuritiesgainsduring2011included$174
millionofnetgainsrealizedfromsecuritiessalesand$112millionofother-than-temporaryimpairments.The

other-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesrecognizedduring2011areduetoweakeractualandforecastedcollateral

performancefornon-agencymortgage-backedsecurities.BB&Trecognized$554millioninnetsecuritiesgainsduring

2010.Thenetsecuritiesgainsrecognizedin2010included$585millionofnetgainsrealizedfromsecuritiessalesand$31

millionoflossesasaresultofother-than-temporaryimpairments.Thelargeincreaseinsecuritiesgainsduring2010

reflectstheresultsofthebalancesheetdeleveragingstrategythatwasexecutedduringthesecondquarterof2010andthe

de-riskingoftheinvestmentportfoliothatbeganduringthethirdquarterof2010andwascompletedinthefourthquarter.

Refertothe“AnalysisofFinancialCondition–InvestmentActivities”sectionforadetaileddiscussionofstrategies

executedduringtheyearspresented.
Otherincomedecreased$60millionin2011comparedto2010,primarilyduetolossesandwrite-downsoncommercial
loansthatweretransferredtotheloansheldforsaleportfolioin2010inconnectionwithmanagement’snonperforming

loandispositionstrategy.Therewasatotalof$149millionoflossesandwrite-downsrecordedin2011comparedto$90

millionin2010.Otherincomedecreased$107millionin2010comparedto2009,primarilyduetolossesandwrite-downs

oncommercialloansthatweretransferredtotheloansheldforsaleportfolioinconnectionwithmanagement’s

nonperformingloandispositionstrategy.
Noninterestrevenuesourceshavebeennegativelyimpactedbymanyregulatoryinitiativesoverthepastseveralyears,
includingchangestoRegulationE,postingorderofclienttransactionsandlimitsoninterchangerevenue.Management

nowestimatesthatthishasnegativelyimpactedrevenuesbyapproximately$360milliononanannualrunratebasis

beginningin2012.Todate,managementhasimplementedoridentifiedchangesinproductsandfeestooffsetslightly

overhalfofthepotentiallostrevenueandiscontinuingtoevaluatetheCompany’sproductofferingsinaneffortto

eliminate,totheextentpossible,thenegativefinancialimpactsoftheseregulatorychanges.Managementcurrently

expectsnoninterestincometoincreaseduring2012comparedto2011.
NoninterestExpense
Noninterestexpensetotaled$5.8billionin2011,$5.7billionin2010and$4.9billionin2009.Noninterestexpense
includescertainmerger-relatedandrestructuringchargesrecordedduringtheyears2011,2010and2009asnotedinthe

Table10below.Theseamountstotaled$16millionin2011,$69millionin2010,and$38millionin2009.Additional

disclosuresrelatedtothesemerger-relatedandrestructuringchargesarepresentedin“Merger-RelatedandRestructuring
42Charges.”Thetablebelowshowsthecomponentsofnoninterestexpenseandthediscussionthatfollowsexplainsthe
compositionofcertaincategoriesandthefactorsthatcausedthemtochangein2011and2010.Theincreaseduring2010

wasimpactedbytheacquisitionofColonial,whichoccurredinAugustof2009.
Table9
NoninterestExpense
YearsEndedDecember31,
%Change
2011v.20102010v.2009201120102009(Dollarsinmillions)
Personnelexpense:
Salariesandwages$2,243$2,153$2,0004.2%7.7%

Pensionandotheremployeebenefits4844635174.5(10.4)
Totalpersonnelexpense2,7272,6162,5174.23.9
Foreclosedpropertyexpense8027473567.4109.8

Occupancyandequipmentexpense:
Netoccupancyexpenseonbankpremises3943783664.23.3

Furnitureandequipmentexpense222230213(3.5)8.0
Totaloccupancyandequipmentexpense6166085791.35.0
Loanprocessingexpenses22720114712.936.7

Regulatorycharges2122112300.5(8.3)

Professionalservices1741701302.430.8

Softwareexpense118117940.924.5

Amortizationofintangibles99122114(18.9)7.0

Merger-relatedandrestructuringcharges,net166938(76.8)81.6

Otherexpenses:
Depositrelatedexpense576153(6.6)15.1

Operationallosses17126041.7(80.0)

Miscellaneousexpenses7377366130.120.1
Totalotherexpenses8118097260.211.4
Totalnoninterestexpense$5,802$5,670$4,9312.315.0
Totalpersonnelexpenseisthelargestcomponentofnoninterestexpenseandincludessalariesandwages,aswellaspension

andotheremployeebenefitcosts.Totalpersonnelexpenseincreased4.2%during2011.Theincreaseincludedanadditional

$90millionforsalariesandwagesduetocustomarysalaryincreasesandhigherincentiveexpenseresultingfromimproved

performanceandproduction-relatedbusinesses.Pensionandemployeebenefitsexpensewasup$21million,largelydueto

higherpensionexpense.Managementexpectspensionexpensetobeapproximately$70millionhigherin2012duetothe

changeinthediscountrate.Totalpersonnelexpenseincreased$99million,or3.9%,in2010.Thisincreasewasprimarily

drivenbyincreasesinsalariesandwagesof$153million,whichincludestheimpactofacquisitions.Thisincreasewas

partiallyoffsetbya$54milliondecreaseinpensionplanexpense.Thedecreaseinpensionexpensewaslargelyaresultofan

increaseinthevalueofpensionassetsduring2009,whichresultedinanincreaseintheestimatedreturnonplanassetsanda

decreaseintheamortizationofnetactuariallossesfor2010.AdditionaldisclosuresrelatingtoBB&T’sbenefitplanscanbe

foundinNote14“BenefitPlans”inthe“NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements.”
Foreclosedpropertyexpensesincludethegainorlossonsaleofforeclosedproperty,valuationadjustmentsresultingfrom
updatedappraisals,andtheongoingexpenseofmaintainingforeclosedproperties.Foreclosedpropertyexpenseincreased

$55millionin2011and$391millionin2010.Theincreasein2011waslargelyduetoanincreaseof$78millionfor

lossesandwrite-downs,partiallyoffsetbyadecreaseof$23millionformaintenanceandrepaircosts.Includedinthe

lossesandwrite-downsfor2011wasa$220millionliquidityvaluationadjustmentinthefourthquarterrelatedto

management’sdecisiontoimplementamoreaggressiveshorterperioddispositionstrategyforforeclosedproperties.The

increaseof$391millionfor2010wasprimarilyduetohigherlossesandwrite-downsandrisingmaintenancecosts,which

increased$331millionand$60million,respectively.ThecarryingvalueofBB&T’sinventoryofforeclosedproperty

decreased$723million,or57.4%,during2011and$192millionduring2010.Thedeclineininventoryduring2011
43reflectsmanagement’smoreaggressiveeffortstoliquidatepropertiesandfewerinflows.Managementexpectsforeclosed
propertywilltrendlowerthroughout2012,withquarterlyexpenseaveraginglessthan$100million.
Netoccupancyandequipmentexpenseincreasedslightlyin2011andby$29million,or5.0%,in2010.Theincreasein
2010waslargelyaresultofincreasedrentexpenserelatedtotheColonialacquisition.
Loanprocessingexpensesincreased$26millionin2011comparedto2010and$54millionduring2010comparedto
2009.The2011increaseincludesa$12millionincreaseforlossesrelatedtorepurchasereservesonBB&T’sinvestor

ownedservicingportfolio.The2010increaseincludesadditionalcostsrelatedtotheColonialacquisitionanda$23

millionincreaseforlossesrelatedtorepurchasereservesonBB&T’sinvestorownedservicingportfolio.BB&Thad$123

million,$107millionand$33millionofloanrepurchasesandindemnificationpaymentsin2011,2010,and2009,

respectively.Whiletheselevelshaveincreasedthepasttwoyears,theyremainmodestcomparedtotheindustryand

trendeddowneachquarterduring2011.
Regulatorychargesincreasedslightlyin2011afteradeclineof$19millionin2010.Thedeclinein2010wasprimarily
duetoaspecialassessmentof$68millionin2009,whichwasoffsetbyhigherdepositinsurancepremiumsin2010.In

2011,theFDICimplementedanewmethodologyfordepositinsurance,includingchangesrequiredbytheDodd-Frank

Act.Thenewmethodologychangedtheassessmentbasefromdepositliabilitiestotangibleassetsandalsointroduceda

newassessmentframeworktobetterassesstheriskaninstitutionposestothedepositinsurancefund.WhileBB&T’sasset

basegrewduring2011,whichwouldhavedrivenhigherFDICpremiums,thiswaslargelyoffsetbyimprovementsin

creditqualitymeasures.
Theremainingnoninterestexpensesdecreasedanet$69million,or5.4%,comparedto2010,whichreflectedanincrease
of$185million,or16.8%,comparedto2009.Thedecreasefor2011includeslowermerger-relatedandrestructuring

charges,as2010includedchargesrelatedtotheColonialacquisitionandsystemsconversion.Inaddition,amortizationof

intangiblesdeclinedby$23millionasintangiblesareamortizedonanacceleratedbasis.2011includesa$16millionloss

fromthesaleofleveragedleasesandan$11millionchargeforanincreasetotheindemnificationreserverelatedtothe

2008saleofVisastock.Theseincreaseswerepartiallyoffsetby$19millioninloweradvertisingandothermarketing

expenses.The2010increaseincludedtheimpactof$41millioningainsontheextinguishmentofdebtthatwererealized

during2009.Inaddition,merger-relatedandrestructuringchargesandsoftwareexpenseincreased$31millionand$23

million,respectively,fromtheprioryear.Theincreaseinmerger-relatedchargeswasprimarilyduetocostsincurredin

connectionwiththeColonialsystemsconversion.Advertisingandothermarketingexpenseswerealsohigherby$29

millioncomparedto2009.Theseincreaseswerepartiallyoffsetbyadeclineof$48millioninoperationallosses

comparedtotheprioryear.Theincreasefor2010wasalsoimpactedbytheColonialacquisition,whichwascompletedin

Augustof2009.RefertoTable9foradditionaldetailonfluctuationsinothercategoriesofnoninterestexpense.
Merger-RelatedandRestructuringCharges
BB&Trecordedcertainmerger-relatedandrestructuringchargesduringtheyears2011,2010and2009.Thesechargesare
reflectedinBB&T’sConsolidatedStatementsofIncomeasacategoryofnoninterestexpense.
Merger-relatedandrestructuringexpensesorcreditsinclude:severanceandpersonnel-relatedcostsorcredits,which
typicallyoccurincorporatesupportanddataprocessingfunctions;occupancyandequipmentchargesorcredits,which

relatetocostsorgainsassociatedwithleaseterminations,obsoleteequipmentwrite-offs,andthesaleofduplicate

facilitiesandequipment;andothermerger-relatedandrestructuringchargesorcredits,whichincludeexpensesnecessary

toconvertandcombinetheacquiredbranchesandoperationsofmergedcompanies,directmediaadvertisingrelatedtothe

acquisitions,assetandsupplyinventorywrite-offs,investmentbankingadvisoryfeesandothersimilarcharges.During

2011,BB&Trecorded$16millionofmerger-relatedandrestructuringcharges.Theseamountswereprimarilyrelatedto

management’sexpenseoptimizationeffortsandthependingacquisitionofBankAtlantic.During2010,BB&Trecorded

$69millionofmerger-relatedandrestructuringcharges.Theseamountswereprimarilyassociatedwiththeacquisitionof

Colonialandrelatedsystemsconversions.The2009netmerger-relatedandrestructuringchargesof$38millionwere

primarilyassociatedwiththeacquisitionofColonial.
AtDecember31,2011and2010,therewere$20millionand$10million,respectively,ofmerger-relatedandrestructuring
accruals.Merger-relatedandrestructuringaccrualsareestablishedwhenthecostsareincurredoronceallrequirementsfor

aplantodisposeofcertainbusinessfunctionshavebeenapprovedbymanagement.Ingeneral,amajorportionofaccrued

costsareutilizedinconjunctionwithorimmediatelyfollowingthesystemsconversion,whenmostoftheduplicate
44positionsareeliminatedandtheterminatedemployeesbegintoreceiveseverance.Otheraccrualsareutilizedovertime
basedonthesale,closingordisposalofduplicatefacilitiesorequipmentortheexpirationofleasecontracts.Mergerand

restructuringaccrualsarere-evaluatedperiodicallyandadjustedasnecessary.TheremainingaccrualsatDecember31,

2011aregenerallyexpectedtobeutilizedduring2012,unlesstheyrelatetospecificcontractsthatexpireinlateryears.
ThefollowingtablepresentsasummaryofactivitywithrespecttoBB&T’smerger-relatedandrestructuringaccruals.
Table10
Merger-relatedandRestructuringAccrualActivity
(Dollarsinmillions)
BalanceJanuary1,
2010Chargesandcredits
UtilizedOther,netBalanceDecember31,
2010Severanceandpersonnel-related$6$11$(14)$(1)$2
Occupancyandequipment328(25)—6

Other630(31)(3)2
Total$15$69$(70)$(4)$10
BalanceJanuary1,
2011Chargesandcredits
UtilizedOther,netBalanceDecember31,
2011Severanceandpersonnel-related$2$11$(2)$—$11
Occupancyandequipment6(1)(2)14

Other26(3)—5
Total$10$16$(7)$1$20
Managementcurrentlyexpectslowernoninterestexpensein2012comparedto2011largelyduetolowercreditcostsand

theimpactofmanagement’sexpenseoptimizationefforts.
ProvisionforIncomeTaxes
BB&T’sprovisionforincometaxestotaled$296million,$115millionand$159millionfor2011,2010and2009,
respectively.Theincreaseintheprovisionforincometaxesfor2011largelyreflectshigherpre-taxearnings,whereasthe

declineintheprovisionforincometaxesduring2010waslargelyduetolowerpre-taxincome,higherfederaltaxcredits

andhighertax-exemptincome.BB&T’seffectivetaxratesfortheyearsended2011,2010and2009were18.2%,11.9%

and15.3%,respectively.
BB&Thasextendedcredittoandinvestedintheobligationsofstatesandmunicipalitiesandtheiragencies,andhasmade
otherinvestmentsandloansthatproducetax-exemptincome.Theincomegeneratedfromtheseinvestments,togetherwith

certainothertransactionsthathavefavorabletaxtreatment,havereducedBB&T’soveralleffectivetaxratefromthe

statutoryratein2011and2010.
Managementcurrentlyexpectstheeffectivetaxratewillbeapproximately25%in2012.

RefertoNote13“IncomeTaxes”inthe“NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements”forareconciliationoftheeffective
taxratetothestatutorytaxrateandadiscussionofuncertaintaxpositionsandothertaxmatters.
SegmentResults
BB&T’soperationsaredividedintosixreportablebusinesssegments:CommunityBanking,ResidentialMortgage
Banking,DealerFinancialServices,SpecializedLending,InsuranceServices,andFinancialServices.Theseoperating

segmentshavebeenidentifiedbasedonBB&T’sorganizationalstructure.SeeNote21“OperatingSegments”inthe

“NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements”hereinforadditionaldisclosuresrelatedtoBB&T’soperatingsegments,the

internalaccountingandreportingpracticesusedtomanagethesesegmentsandfinancialdisclosuresforthesesegments.
45Fluctuationsinnoninterestincomeandnoninterestexpenseincurreddirectlybythesegmentsaremorefullydiscussedin
the“NoninterestIncome”and“NoninterestExpense”sectionsabove.
CommunityBanking
CommunityBankinghasanetworkof1,779bankingofficesattheendof2011,adecreaseof3officescomparedto1,782
bankingofficesatDecember31,2010.Thedecreaseinofficesistheresultofclosinglowvolumebranchespartiallyoffset

bydenovobranchopenings.
NetincomeattributabletoCommunityBankingincreased$457millionto$533millionin2011.Theincreaseinnet
incomecomparedto2010wasprimarilyduetoalowerallocatedprovisionforloanandleaselosses.Comparing2010to

2009,netincomeintheCommunityBankingsegmentdecreased$222million,or74.5%,to$76millionprimarilydueto

higherforeclosedpropertyexpense.
NetinterestincomeforCommunityBankingtotaled$3.6billionin2011comparedto$3.8billionin2010.Thedeclinein
netinterestincomewasprimarilytheeffectofalowerinterestrateenvironment.Thedeclineinnetinterestincome

attributabletolowinterestrateswaspartiallyoffsetbyimprovementsinthedepositmix,astheresultofanincreasein

noninterestcheckingbalancesandadecreaseinclientcertificatesofdeposits.Netinterestincomeearnedin2010roseby

$234million,or6.6%,comparedto2009.Theincreaseinthenetinterestincomein2010wasprimarilydueto

improvementsinthedepositmix.
Theallocatedprovisionforloanandleaselossesdeclined$1.2billion,or66.2%,to$608millionin2011,reflectinglower
charge-offsinthecommercialrealestateandresidentialADCloanportfolios.Theallocatedprovisionforloanandlease

lossesdeclined$54million,or2.9%,from2009to2010duetolowerloanbalances.
NoninterestincomeinCommunityBankingdecreased$181million,or15.1%,to$1.0billionin2011,primarilydueto
higherlossesoncommercialloansheldforsale,loweroverdraftfees,andlowercheckcardfees.Thisdeclinein

noninterestincomewasoffsetbyincreasesinmerchantdiscounts,depositaccountservicecharges,accountanalysisfees,

andcreditcardinterchangefees.In2010,noninterestincomedeclined$26million,or2.1%,drivenprimarilybylower

overdraftfees,aswellashigherlossesoncommercialnonperformingloansheldforsale.Noninterestincomeallocated

fromothersegments,whichisreportedasintersegmentnetreferralfees(“referralfees”),declinedby$12million,or8.2%

in2011,primarilyduetolowerreferralsforresidentialmortgagelendingasoriginationsslowed.Noninterestincome

allocatedfromothersegmentsof$146millionin2010was$40million,or21.5%lowerthan2009,drivenprimarilyby

lowerreferralsforresidentialmortgagelending.
NoninterestexpenseincurredbyCommunityBankingduring2011declined$31million,or1.3%,to$2.4billion
comparedto2010.Thedeclinewasprimarilyduetolowerregulatorychargesandpersonnelexpense,partiallyoffsetby

higherforeclosedpropertyexpense.Comparing2010to2009,noninterestexpenseincreased$483million,or25.2%.This

increasewasprimarilyduetohigherforeclosedpropertyexpense,otherrealestateownedexpense,andpersonnel

expense.Allocatedcorporateexpenseincreased$95million,or12.3%,to$866millionin2011,primarilyduetoincreases

inloanadministrationexpense,ITservicesandoperations.Comparing2010to2009,allocatedcorporateexpenses

increasedby$93million,or13.7%.
TotalidentifiableassetsforCommunityBankingdecreased$2.3billionin2011,or3.6%,to$60.9billion,comparedtoa
decreaseof$3.1billion,or4.6%,in2010.Theloanportfoliosdeclinedduetothesaleofspecificnonperformingcommercial

loans,thegeneraleconomicconditions,andlackofstrongdemandforlendingproductsduring2011and2010.Community

Bankingexperiencedsolidorganicdepositgrowthduring2011,excludingthedeclineinhigher-costcertificatesofdeposit.
ResidentialMortgageBanking
BB&T’smortgageoriginationstotaled$23.7billionin2011,down$1.2billion,or4.8%,comparedto2010.BB&T’s
residentialmortgageservicingportfolio,whichincludesbothretainedloansandloansservicedforthirdparties,totaled$91.6

billionatyearend2011,anincreaseof9.8%,comparedto$83.5billionatDecember31,2010.ResidentialMortgage

Bankingexperiencedanetlossof$17millionin2011,comparedtoanetlossof$77millionin2010.Thisimprovementin

performancewasprimarilyduetoasignificantdeclineintheallocatedprovisionforloanandleaselosses.Netincomein

2009was$208million,duetostronggrowthinloanoriginationsduringtheyear.Thedeclineinnetincomein2010

comparedto2009wasprimarilyduetoasignificantincreaseintheallocatedprovisionforloanandleaselosses.
46NetinterestincomeforResidentialMortgageBankingtotaled$287millionin2011,up$27million,or10.4%,compared
to2010.Netinterestincomein2010wasdown$83million,or24.2%,comparedto2009.Theincreaseinnetinterest

incomein2011wasprimarilyduetogrowthintheloansheldforinvestment,aswellashigherspreadstofundingcosts.

Thedecreaseinnetinterestincomein2010comparedto2009wasprimarilyduetoahigherchargeforfunds.Netinterest

incomeof$343millionin2009wasdrivenbyloanportfoliogrowth,astheresultofrecordmortgageoriginations,aswell

ashigherspreadstofundingcosts.
Theallocatedprovisionforloanandleaselosseswas$326millionfor2011,down$227million,or41.0%,comparedto
$553millionin2010.Thedeclineinprovisionexpensereflectsimprovedcreditqualityintheloanportfolio.Net

charge-offsof$87millionand$141millionwererecordedin2011and2010,respectively,resultingfromthesaleof

problemloansinconnectionwithmanagement’snonperformingloandispositionstrategy.
NoninterestincomeinResidentialMortgageBankingdeclined$109million,or23.9%,to$348millionin2011.This
decreasewasduetolowermortgageloansalevolumesandmarginsthantheprioryear.Noninterestincomewasdown

$150million,or24.7%,in2010comparedto2009.Thisdecreasewasduetolowerloanproductionrevenuescomparedto

arecordyearin2009.Noninterestexpenseincurredin2011withinResidentialMortgageBankingincreased$42million,

or15.9%,to$306millioncomparedto2010,reflectinghigherforeclosedpropertyexpense,aswellasanincreasein

provisionexpenseassociatedwithloanrepurchases.Noninterestexpensefor2010wasup$7million,or2.7%,from2009

ashigherprovisionexpenseassociatedwithloanrepurchaseswasoffsetbylowerincentiveexpenseonloanoriginations.
Totalidentifiableassetsof$25.5billionforResidentialMortgageBankingincreased$3.3billion,or14.8%.Thisfollowed
anincreaseinidentifiableassetsof$3.1billion,or16.3%,in2010.Increasesinidentifiableassetsin2011and2010were

duetomanagement’sdecisiontoretainaportionof10and15yearmortgageproduction.
DealerFinancialServices
NetincomefromDealerFinancialServiceswas$204millionin2011,upfrom$185millionin2010.Thisincreaseis
primarilyattributabletogrowthinaverageloanbalances,aswellashigherspreadsonfundingcosts.Comparing2010to

2009,netincomeincreased$154million,primarilyduetoalowerallocatedprovisionforloanandleaselosses.
NetinterestincomefromDealerFinancialServicesincreasedby$61million,or11.9%,to$575millionin2011compared
to2010.Theincreaseinnetinterestincomewasprimarilyduetogrowthintheprimeautoandmarineandrecreational

vehicleloanportfolios,aswellasanimprovednetinterestmarginintheRegionalAcceptanceCorporation’spoint-of-sale

loanportfolio.During2010,netinterestincomeincreasedby$61million,or13.5%,to$514millioncomparedto2009.

Thisincreasewasduetogrowthintheprimemarineandrecreationalvehicleloanportfolio,aswellastheacquisitionof

anindirectautomobileloanportfolioinmid-2009.
Theallocatedprovisionforloanandleaselossesof$125millionwasup34.4%in2011aftera66.1%decreaseto$93
millionin2010.Theincreasein2011reflectsgrowthinRegionalAcceptanceCorporation’sdelinquentaccountsand

nonperformingassets,whichhaverisenfromrecentlowstomorehistoricallevels.The2010decreasereflectssignificant

improvementsinnetcharge-offsover2009levels.
TotalidentifiableassetsforDealerFinancialServicesof$9.9billionincreased$456million,or4.8%,comparedto2010,
reflectinggrowthinlendingactivitiesfollowingastrongprioryearincreaseof$780million,or9.0%.
SpecializedLending
SpecializedLendingcontinuedtoexpandduring2011throughstrongorganicgrowth.Netincomewas$238millionfor
2011,up$70million,or41.7%,comparedto2010.Theincreaseinnetincomewasdrivenbystrongloanproductionand

portfoliogrowth,aswellascontinuedimprovementincreditquality.Netincomein2010of$168millionwasup$105

million,or166.7%,comparedto2009,primarilyduetoorganicloangrowth,coupledwithalowerallocatedprovisionfor

loanandleaselosses.
Netinterestincometotaled$451millionin2011,anincreaseof$44million,or10.8%,comparedto2010.Comparing
2010to2009,netinterestincomeincreased$104million,or34.3%,to$407million.Thegrowthinnetinterestincomein

2011wasdrivenbystrongloangrowthbySheffieldFinancialastheresultofexpandeddealerrelationships,aswellas

highernetinterestmarginsforLendmarkandGovernmentalFinance.Netinterestincomegrowthin2010wasprimarily
47drivenbygrowthinloansatSheffieldFinancialandGovernmentalFinance.AverageloansforSpecializedLendinggrew
by$1.3billion,or11.2%,to$12.8billionin2011comparedto2010.Averageloangrowthforthesegmentwas$1.4

billion,or14.4%,in2010comparedto2009.
Theallocatedprovisionforloanandleaselossestotaled$68millionin2011,adecreaseof$42million,or38.2%,
comparedto2010.Comparing2010to2009,theallocatedprovisionforloanandleaselossesdecreased$48million,or

30.4%.Thedeclineintheprovisionfor2011wasprimarilyattributabletogenerallyimprovedcreditperformanceacross

thelinesofbusiness.DuetotheoverallhighercreditriskprofilesofsomeofSpecializedLending’sclients,lossratesare

expectedtobehigherthanconventionalbanklending.Lossratesarealsoaffectedbyshiftsintheportfoliomixofthe

underlyingsubsidiaries.
Noninterestincometotaled$210millionin2011,anincreaseof$34million,or19.3%,comparedto2010.Noninterest
incomegrowthin2011wasdrivenbyGrandbridgeRealEstateCapital,whichachievedrecordcommercialmortgageloan

originationvolumefordeliverytothesecondarymarket.Comparing2010to2009,noninterestincomeincreased$29million,

or19.7%.Noninterestexpensetotaled$265millionin2011,anincreaseof$20million,or8.2%,comparedto2010.
Theincreaseinnoninterestexpensewasdrivenbyinternalgrowth.Comparing2010to2009,noninterestexpensetotaled
$245million,anincreaseof$20million,or8.9%.
Totalidentifiableassetsof$16.8billionforSpecializedLendingincreased$1.8billion,or12.1%,between2010and2011
dueprimarilytoorganicgrowthintheloanportfoliosoftheunderlyingbusinesses.Comparing2010to2009,total

identifiableassetsincreased$2.5billion,or20.0%.
InsuranceServices
NetincomefromInsuranceServiceswas$104millionin2011,essentiallyflatcomparedto2010.InsuranceServices
continuestobeimpactedbytheweakeconomyandsoftinsurancepremiumpricing,resultinginlowcommissionrevenue

growthandpressureonbrokerageoperatingmargins.Comparing2010to2009,netincomedeclined$7million,or6.4%.
NoninterestincomeproducedbyInsuranceServicestotaled$1.0billionduring2011,2010,and2009.Acquisitions
completedin2011includedPrecept,afull-serviceemployeebenefitsconsultingandadministrativesolutionsfirmwith

officesinIrvineandSanRamon,California;LibertyBenefitInsuranceServices,afull-serviceemployeebenefitsbroker

locatedinSanJose,California;andAtlanticRiskManagementCorporation,acommercialpropertyandcasualtyand

employeebenefitsbrokerlocatedinColumbia,Maryland.
NoninterestexpensesincurredwithintheInsuranceServicessegmentincreased$11million,or1.4%,in2011comparedto
2010.Thisincreasewasduetohigheroperatingcosts,includingincreasedlegalcostscomparedto2010.Comparing2010

to2009,noninterestexpensesincreased$20million,or2.6%.
FinancialServices
NetincomefromFinancialServicesincreasedby$57million,or24.4%,to$291millionin2011.Theincreasefrom2010
wasprimarilyattributabletoloananddepositgrowth,aswellasalowerallocatedprovisionforloanandleaselosses.In

2011,FinancialServicesexperiencedpositiveresultsfromCorporateBankingloananddepositgrowth.Comparing2010

to2009,netincomedeclined$19million,or7.5%,to$234millionastheresultofa$27millionpre-taxgainonthesale

ofBB&T’spayrollprocessingbusinessin2009.
Netinterestincometotaled$370millionin2011,anincreaseof$56million,or17.8%,comparedto2010.Comparing
2010to2009,netinterestincomeincreased$25million,or8.7%.Theincreaseinnetinterestincomeduring2011was

attributabletostrongorganicloananddepositgrowthinCorporateBanking,offsetbyalowernetinterestmargin.

CorporateBankingwasalsothestrongestdriverintheoverallincreaseinnetinterestincomefor2010.
Theallocatedprovisionforloanandleaselossesdeclined$42million,or93.3%,to$3millionin2011comparedto2010,
reflectingcontinuedexcellentcreditqualityperformance.Theallocatedprovisionforloanandleaselossesincreased$12

million,or36.4%,from2009to2010primarilyduetohigherloanbalances.
NoninterestincomeinFinancialServicestotaled$692millionin2011,up$35million,or5.3%,comparedto$657million
earnedduring2010.Thisincreasein2011isprimarilyattributabletostrongBB&TCapitalPartnersrevenuegrowth

relatedtomaturinginvestmentsinitsprivateequityandmezzaninefunds.Additionally,RetirementandInstitutional
48Serviceshadstrongnoninterestincomegrowthin2011,withassetsgrowingastheresultofimprovedmarketconditions
andbusinessinitiatives.Noninterestincomedeclinedby$37million,or5.3%,between2009and2010.Therevenue

decreasein2010wasattributabletolossestakenonclientderivatives,offsettingnormalizedgrowthinthevarious

businessesandthe$27millionpre-taxgainonthesaleofBB&T’spayrollprocessingbusinessinthefourthquarterof

2009.Noninterestexpenseof$583millionincurredbyFinancialServicesincreased$49million,or9.2%,in2011,after

declining$9millionintheprioryear.Theincreaseinnoninterestexpensein2011wastheresultofcontinuedeffortsto

expandthesalesforceintheWealthDivisionandCorporateBanking.
TotalidentifiableassetsforFinancialServicesof$7.5billionincreased$1.5billion,or24.7%,between2010and2011
dueprimarilytoorganicloangrowthinCorporateBanking.Comparing2010to2009,totalidentifiableassetsincreased

$900million,or17.5%.
AnalysisofFinancialCondition
AreviewoftheCompany’smajorbalancesheetcategoriesispresentedbelow.
InvestmentActivities
BB&T’sinvestmentactivitiesaregovernedinternallybyawritten,board-approvedpolicy.Theinvestmentpolicyis
carriedoutbytheCorporation’sMarketRiskandLiquidityCommittee(“MRLC”),whichmeetsregularlytoreviewthe

economicenvironmentandestablishinvestmentstrategies.TheMRLCalsohasmuchbroaderresponsibilities,whichare

discussedinthe“MarketRiskManagement”sectionin“Management’sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialCondition

andResultsofOperations”herein.
InvestmentstrategiesarereviewedbytheMRLCbasedontheinterestrateenvironment,balancesheetmix,actualand
anticipatedloandemand,fundingopportunitiesandtheoverallinterestratesensitivityoftheCorporation.Ingeneral,the

investmentportfolioismanagedinamannerappropriatetotheattainmentofthefollowinggoals:(i)toprovidea

sufficientmarginofliquidassetstomeetunanticipateddepositandloanfluctuationsandoverallfundsmanagement

objectives;(ii)toprovideeligiblesecuritiestosecurepublicfunds,trustdepositsasprescribedbylawandother

borrowings;and(iii)toearnthemaximumreturnonfundsinvestedthatiscommensuratewithmeetingtherequirements

of(i)and(ii).
BranchBankinvestsinsecuritiesasallowableunderbankregulations.Thesesecuritiesmayincludeobligationsofthe
U.S.Treasury,U.S.governmentagencies,U.S.government-sponsoredentities,includingmortgage-backedsecurities,

bankeligibleobligationsofanystateorpoliticalsubdivision,privately-issuedmortgage-backedsecurities,structured

notes,bankeligiblecorporateobligations,includingcorporatedebentures,commercialpaper,negotiablecertificatesof

deposit,bankersacceptances,mutualfundsandlimitedtypesofequitysecurities.BranchBankalsomaydealinsecurities

subjecttotheprovisionsoftheGramm-Leach-BlileyAct.Scott&Stringfellow,LLC,BB&T’sfull-servicebrokerageand

investmentbankingsubsidiary,engagesintheunderwriting,tradingandsalesofequityanddebtsecuritiessubjecttothe

riskmanagementpoliciesoftheCorporation.
49ThefollowingtableprovidesinformationregardingthecompositionofBB&T’savailable-for-saleandheldtomaturity
securitiesportfoliofortheyearspresented:
Table11
CompositionofSecuritiesPortfolio
December31,
201120102009(Dollarsinmillions)
Securitiesavailableforsale(atfairvalue):
U.S.government-sponsoredentities(“GSE”)$306$103$2,035

Mortgage-backedsecuritiesissuedbyGSE18,13218,34426,670

Statesandpoliticalsubdivisions1,9231,9092,107

Non-agencymortgage-backedsecurities3685151,022

Othersecurities7759218

Coveredsecurities1,5771,5391,201
Totalsecuritiesavailableforsale22,31323,16933,253
Securitiesheldtomaturity(atamortizedcost):
GSEsecurities500——

Mortgage-backedsecuritiesissuedbyGSE13,028——

Statesandpoliticalsubdivisions35——

Othersecurities531——
Totalsecuritiesheldtomaturity14,094——
Totalsecurities$36,407$23,169$33,253
Thetotalsecuritiesportfolioincreased$13.2billion,or57.1%,in2011.Themajorityofthegrowthintheportfolio

occurredinthelatterhalfoftheyear,whenmanagementpurchasedadditionalsecuritiesaspartofastrategytocomply

withtheproposedBaselIIIliquidityguidelines.Managementcurrentlyexpectsthesecuritiesportfoliotoremainatcurrent

levelsin2012.
AsofDecember31,2011,approximately99%ofthesecuritiesportfoliowasbackedbygovernmentagenciesor
governmentsponsoredentitiesandapproximately28%werevariableratesecurities.Theeffectivedurationofthe

securitiesportfoliowas3.3yearsatDecember31,2011comparedto4.0yearsattheendof2010.Thedurationofthe

securitiesportfolioexcludesequitysecurities,auctionratesecurities,andcertainnon-agencymortgage-backedsecurities

thatwereacquiredintheColonialacquisition.AsofDecember31,2011,thesecuritiesportfolioincludes$22.3billionof

available-for-salesecuritiesand$14.1billionofheld-to-maturitysecurities.Duringthefirstquarterof2011,BB&T

reclassifiedapproximately$8.3billionfromsecuritiesavailableforsaletosecuritiesheldtomaturity.Management

determinedthatithasboththepositiveintentandabilitytoholdthesesecuritiestomaturity.Thereclassificationofthese

securitieswasaccountedforatfairvalue.Managementtransferredthesesecuritiestomitigatepossiblenegativeimpacts

onitsregulatorycapitalundertheproposedBaselIIIcapitalguidelines.Inaddition,managementpurchasedadditional

securitiesintotheheld-to-maturityportfolioduringtheyearbasedonitsintentatthedateofpurchase.
Mortgage-backedsecuritiesissuedbygovernment-sponsoredentitieswere85.6%ofthetotalsecuritiesportfolioat
year-end2011.AsofDecember31,2011,theavailable-for-salesecuritiesportfolioalsoincludes$1.6billionofsecurities

thatwereacquiredfromtheFDICaspartoftheColonialacquisition.ThesesecuritiesarecoveredbyFDIClosssharing

agreementsandinclude$1.3billionofnon-agencymortgage-backedsecuritiesand$326millionofmunicipalsecurities.
In2011,primarilyinconnectionwithstrengtheningitsliquidityundertheproposedBaselIIIliquidityguidelines,
managementpurchasedatotalof$13.4billionofGNMAmortgage-backedsecurities.Managementalsosold

approximately$4.0billionofsecuritiesduringtheyear,whichproducednetsecuritiesgainsof$174million.Inaddition,

BB&Trecognized$112millioninchargesforother-than-temporaryimpairmentrelatedtoBB&T’sportfolioof

non-agencymortgage-backedsecurities.Theother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesweretheresultofweakeractual

andforecastedcollateralperformancefornon-agencymortgage-backedsecurities.
50In2010,managementexecutedtwomajorstrategiestostrengthenthebalancesheet.Inthesecondquarterof2010,
managementexecutedadeleveragingstrategytobetterpositionBB&T’sbalancesheetforarisingrateenvironmentand

achieveabettermixofearningassets.Inconnectionwiththisstrategy,managementreducedthebalancesheetby

approximately$8billionthroughthesaleofsecurities.Duringthethirdandfourthquartersof2010,management

executedastrategytofurtherde-risktheavailable-for-salesecuritiesportfolio.Thede-riskingstrategywasaimedat

furtherreducingthedurationofthesecuritiesportfolioandreducingtheriskofchargestoothercomprehensiveincomein

arisingrateenvironment.Alsotofurtherprotectagainsttheriskofarisingrateenvironment,managementreplaceda

portionofthesecuritiessoldwithfloating-ratesecurities.AsofDecember31,2010,approximately28%ofthe

available-for-salesecuritiesportfoliowasfloatingrate.Inaddition,managementsoldapproximately$400millionof

non-agencymortgage-backedsecuritiestoreducethepotentialforfuturecreditlosses.Thesestrategiesweretheprimary

driveringeneratingnetsecuritiesgainsduring2010.Primarilyinconnectionwiththesestrategies,BB&Tsoldatotalof

$31.3billioninavailable-for-salesecuritiesduring2010,whichproducednetsecuritiesgainsof$585million.Inaddition,

BB&Trecognized$31millioninchargesforother-than-temporaryimpairmentrelatedtoBB&T’sportfolioofnon-agency

mortgage-backedsecurities.
RefertoNote2“Securities”inthe“NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements”hereinforadditionaldisclosuresrelated
toBB&T’sevaluationofsecuritiesforother-than-temporaryimpairment.
51ThefollowingtablepresentsBB&T’ssecuritiesportfolioatDecember31,2011,segregatedbymajorcategorywith
rangesofmaturitiesandaverageyieldsdisclosed.
Table12
SecuritiesDecember31,2011
AvailableforSale
HeldtoMaturity
FairValue
WeightedAverageYield(1)
AmortizedCost
WeightedAverageYield(1)
(Dollarsinmillions)
U.S.government-sponsoredentities(GSE):
Withinoneyear$1760.92%$——%

Onetofiveyears1300.26——

Fivetotenyears——5002.12
Total3060.645002.12
Mortgage-backedsecuritiesissuedbyGSE:(2)
Onetofiveyears66.20——

Fivetotenyears2222.79——

Aftertenyears17,9042.3113,0282.18
Total18,1322.3213,0282.18
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions:(3)
Withinoneyear47.28——

Onetofiveyears146.91——

Fivetotenyears1326.26——

Aftertenyears1,7736.34355.31
Total1,9236.34355.31
Non-agencymortgage-backedsecurities:(2)
Aftertenyears3685.95——
Total3685.95——
Othersecurities:
Withinoneyear10.56——

Aftertenyears——5311.61

Nostatedmaturity61.84——
Total71.565311.61
Coveredsecurities:
Onetofiveyears24.51——

Fivetotenyears2995.44——

Aftertenyears1,27614.23——
Total1,57712.27——
Totalsecurities$22,3133.27$14,0942.16
(1)Yieldsontax-exemptsecuritiesarecalculatedonataxable-equivalentbasisusingthestatutoryfederalincometax
rateof35%.Yieldsforavailable-for-salesecuritiesarecalculatedbasedontheamortizedcostofthesecurities.
(2)Forpurposesofthematuritytable,mortgage-backedsecurities,whicharenotdueatasinglematuritydate,havebeen
includedinmaturitygroupingsbasedonthecontractualmaturity.Theexpectedlifeofmortgage-backedsecurities

willdifferfromcontractualmaturitiesbecauseborrowersmayhavetherighttocallorprepaytheunderlying

mortgageloanswithorwithoutcallorprepaymentpenalties.
(3)Weighted-averageyieldexcludestheeffectofpay-fixedswapshedgingmunicipalsecurities.
52LendingActivities
TheprimarygoaloftheBB&Tlendingfunctionistohelpclientsachievetheirfinancialgoalsbyprovidingqualityloan
productsthatarefairtotheclientandprofitabletotheCorporation.Managementbelievesthatthispurposecanbestbe

accomplishedbybuildingstrong,profitableclientrelationshipsovertime,withBB&Tbecominganimportantcontributor

totheprosperityandwell-beingofitsclients.Inadditiontotheimportanceplacedonclientknowledgeandcontinuous

involvementwithclients,BB&T’slendingprocessincorporatesthestandardsofaconsistentcompany-widecreditculture

andanin-depthlocalmarketknowledge.Furthermore,theCorporationemploysstrictunderwritingcriteriagoverningthe

degreeofassumedriskandthediversityoftheloanportfoliointermsoftype,industryandgeographicalconcentration.In

thiscontext,BB&Tstrivestomeetthecreditneedsofbusinessesandconsumersinitsmarketswhilepursuingabalanced

strategyofloanprofitability,loangrowthandloanquality.
BB&T’sloanportfolioisapproximately50%commercialand50%retailbydesign,andisdividedintosixmajor
categories—commercial,directretail,salesfinance,revolvingcredit,residentialmortgageandotherlendingsubsidiaries.

Inaddition,BB&ThasaportfolioofloansthatwereacquiredintheColonialacquisitionthatarecoveredbyFDICloss

sharingagreements.BB&TlendstoadiversecustomerbasethatissubstantiallylocatedwithintheCorporation’sprimary

marketarea.Atthesametime,theloanportfolioisgeographicallydispersedthroughoutBB&T’sbranchnetworkto

mitigateconcentrationriskarisingfromlocalandregionaleconomicdownturns.Refertothe“RiskManagement”section

hereinforadiscussionofeachoftheloanportfoliosandthecreditriskmanagementpoliciesusedtomanagethe

portfolios.ThefollowingtablesummarizesBB&T’sloanportfoliobasedontheregulatoryclassificationoftheportfolio,which
focusesontheunderlyingloancollateral,anddiffersfrominternalclassificationspresentedhereinthatfocusonthe

primarypurposeoftheloan.Coveredloansareincludedintheirrespectivecategories.
Table13
CompositionofLoanandLeasePortfolio
December31,
20112010200920082007(Dollarsinmillions)
Commercial,financialandagricultural
loans$21,452$20,490$19,076$17,489$14,515
Leasereceivables1,0671,1581,0921,3151,651

Realestate-constructionandland
developmentloans7,71410,96915,35318,01219,474
Realestate-mortgageloans60,82157,41855,67148,71944,687

Consumerloans16,41513,53212,46411,71010,580
Totalloansandleasesheldfor
investment107,469103,567103,65697,24590,907
Loansheldforsale3,7363,6972,5511,424779
Totalloansandleases$111,205$107,264$106,207$98,669$91,686
53Thefollowingtableisbasedupontheregulatoryclassificationofloansandreflectsthescheduledmaturitiesof
commercial,financialandagriculturalloans,aswellasrealestateconstructionloans:
Table14
SelectedLoanMaturitiesandInterestSensitivity
December31,2011
Commercial,RealEstate:
FinancialConstruction
andandLand
AgriculturalDevelopment
LoansLoansTotal(Dollarsinmillions)
FixedRate:
1yearorless(1)$2,691$272$2,963

1-5years1,9319312,862

After5years3,9691,1345,103
Total8,5912,33710,928
VariableRate:
1yearorless(1)5,7302,0587,788

1-5years5,4482,8398,287

After5years1,6834802,163
Total12,8615,37718,238
Totalloansandleases(2)$21,452$7,714$29,166
(1)Includesloansdueondemand.

(2)Theabovetableexcludes:
(Dollarsinmillions)
(i)consumerloans$16,415

(ii)realestatemortgageloans60,821

(iii)loansheldforsale
3,736(iv)leasereceivables
1,067Total$82,039
Scheduledrepaymentsarereportedinthematuritycategoryinwhichthepaymentisdue.Determinationsofmaturitiesare
baseduponcontractterms.BB&T’screditpolicytypicallydoesnotpermitautomaticrenewalofloans.Atthescheduled

maturitydate(includingballoonpaymentdate),thecustomergenerallymustrequestanewloantoreplacethematured

loanandexecuteeitheranewnoteornotemodificationwithrate,termsandconditionsnegotiatedatthattime.
54ThefollowingtablepresentsBB&T’stotalloanportfoliobaseduponBB&T’slinesofbusiness,asdiscussedherein,
ratherthanuponregulatoryreportingclassifications:
Table15
CompositionofLoanandLeasePortfolioBasedonLinesofBusiness
December31,
20112010200920082007(Dollarsinmillions)
Commercialloansandleases$49,165$48,886$49,820$50,480$44,870

Directretaillending14,46713,74914,28315,45415,691

Salesfinance7,4017,0506,2906,3546,021

Revolvingcredit2,2122,1272,0161,7771,618

Residentialmortgage20,58117,55015,43517,09117,467

Otherlendingsubsidiaries8,7377,9537,6706,0895,240

Otheracquired3958123——
Totalloansandleasesheldforinvestment
(excludingcoveredloans)102,60297,37395,63797,24590,907
Covered4,8676,1948,019——
Totalloansandleasesheldforinvestment107,469103,567103,65697,24590,907
Loansheldforsale3,7363,6972,5511,424779
Totalloansandleases$111,205$107,264$106,207$98,669$91,686
Growthinthelendingportfolioacceleratedduringthesecondhalfof2011,asdemandincreasedandrunoffofhigher-risk

commercialrealestateportfoliosbecamelessofaheadwind.Totalloanswere$111.2billionatyear-end2011,up$3.9

billion,or3.7%,comparedtothebalanceatDecember31,2010.CoveredloansacquiredintheColonialacquisition

decreased$1.3billion,or21.4%,during2011.Averagetotalloanswere$106.0billionfor2011,up$1.2billioncompared

totheprioryear.Managementexpectsaveragetotalloanstogrowinthe5-7%rangeforthefirstquarterof2012onan

annualizedbasiscomparedtothefourthquarterof2011,contingentupontheeconomy.
55ThefollowingtablepresentsBB&T’saverageloansfortheyearsendedDecember31,2011and2010,segregatedby
majorcategory:
Table16
CompositionofAverageLoansandLeases
YearsEndedDecember31,
20112010Balance%oftotal
Balance%oftotal
(Dollarsinmillions)
Commercialloansandleases:
Commercialandindustrial$34,15332.3%$32,02830.6%

Commercialrealestate-other11,13910.512,05611.5

Commercialrealestate-residentialADC2,7692.64,6934.5
Directretaillending13,80013.013,94813.3

Salesfinance7,2026.86,7666.5

Revolvingcredit2,1062.02,0321.9

Residentialmortgage18,78217.715,96515.2

Otherlendingsubsidiaries8,2807.87,7787.4

Otheracquired50—850.1
Totalaverageloansandleasesheldforinvestment
(excludingcoveredloans)98,28192.795,35191.0
Covered5,4985.27,0596.7
Totalaverageloansandleasesheldforinvestment103,77997.9102,41097.7
Loansheldforsale2,1832.12,3772.3
Totalaverageloansandleases$105,962100.0%$104,787100.0%
Averagecommercialandindustrialloansincreased$2.1billion,or6.6%,in2011ascomparedto2010.Theincreasein

thecommercialandindustrialportfolioislargelyduetomanagement’sfocusedeffortsatgrowingthiscomponentofthe

loanportfolio.Managementhasaddedanumberofnewproducersinthecorporateandmiddle-marketbankingareato

capitalizeonthestrengthofBB&T’sbalancesheetandbetterdiversifytheportfolio.Averagecommercialreal

estate-residential,acquisitionanddevelopment(ADC)portfolioheldforinvestmentdeclined$1.9billion,or41.0%,in

2011andtotaled$2.1billionatDecember31,2011.Thisportfoliohasdeclinedsteadilyfrom$8.0billionatyear-end

2008asmanagementhasbeenreducingexposurestohigher-riskrealestatelending.AverageCommercialreal

estate–otherloansfor2011decreased$917million,or7.6%,comparedtotheprioryearduetolowerdemandfor

commercialrealestateloans.
Averagedirectretailloansdecreased1.1%during2011.Thisportfolioisprimarilyhomeequityloansandlinesto
individualsandhasbeennegativelyimpactedbythedownturnintheresidentialrealestatemarkets.Inaddition,the

residentiallot/landcomponentofthisportfoliohasbeendeclining,asmanagementcontinuestoreduceexposurestothese

typesofloans.Demandforhomeequityloansimprovedduringthesecondquarterof2011andhascontinuedintothefirst

quarterof2012.Theperiodendbalancefordirectretailloansincreasedeachofthelastthreequartersof2011andwas

$718million,or5.2%,higherthanthebalanceatDecember31,2010.
Averagesalesfinanceloansandaveragerevolvingcreditreflectedgrowthratesof6.4%and3.6%during2011,
respectively.BB&Tconcentratesitseffortsonthehighestqualityborrowersinbothoftheseproductmarkets.Thegrowth

inaveragesalesfinanceloansprimarilyreflectsimprovementinprimeautomobilelending.
Averageresidentialmortgageloansheldforinvestmentincreased$2.8billion,or17.6%,comparedto2010.Management
viewsmortgageloansasanintegralpartofBB&T’srelationship-basedcreditculture.Duringthethirdquarterof2010,

managementmadethedecisiontoretainaportionofits10to15yearproduction,whichhasledtothegrowthinthis

portfolio.AverageloansheldbyBB&T’sotherlendingsubsidiariesincreased$502million,or6.5%,comparedto2010.Thegrowth
inthisportfoliowasprimarilyinsmallticketfinance,nonprimeautomobilefinancingandequipmentleasing.
56AssetQuality
BB&Thascontinuedtoworkwithitsclientsthathaveexperiencedfinancialdifficultiesthroughouttheeconomic
recession.Duringthesecondquarterof2010,managementimplementedacomprehensivenonperformingasset

dispositionstrategywithagoalofmoreaggressivelyreducingBB&T’sexposuretononperformingloansandforeclosed

propertiesandtoreduceoreliminateanydelayinexitingthecreditcycle.Thestrategywasimplementedduringthe

secondquarterof2010asmanagementbelievedthatpricingfordistressedassetshadimproved.Thisstrategycontinued

throughoutthethirdandfourthquartersandinto2011.Inthelatterpartof2011,managementbeganamoreaggressive

approachrelatedtoforeclosedpropertiestofurtherexpeditethedispositionofitsinventoryofforeclosedassets.
Theimplementationofthenonperformingassetdispositionstrategyincludedtheidentificationofproblemassetsthatwere
transferredfromloansheldforinvestmenttoloansheldforsale.Inconnectionwiththestrategy,managementtransferred

loanswithabookvalueofapproximately$1.9billiontoloansheldforsaleduring2010.Thisincluded$1.5billionof

commercialloans,whichwereprimarilyintheresidential,acquisitionanddevelopmentandothercommercialrealestate

portfolios,and$388millionofresidentialmortgageloans.Netcharge-offsof$605millionwererecordedupontransferto

loansheldforsale.Thisincluded$141millionrelatedtoresidentialmortgageloansand$464millionforcommercial

loans.BB&Talsorecognized$90millionoflossesandadditionalwrite-downsrelatedtocommercialloansheldforsale

during2010andanadditional$149millionoflossesandwrite-downsin2011.AsofDecember31,2011,thedisposition

ofallnonperformingcommercialloansheldforsalewascomplete.Managementalsoexecutedanadditionalsaleof$271

millionofproblemresidentialmortgageloansinthesecondquarterof2011,whichresultedincharge-offsof$87million

whentheloansweretransferredtotheheldforsaleportfolio.
SubstantiallyalloftheloansacquiredintheColonialacquisitionarecoveredbylosssharingagreementswiththeFDIC,
wherebytheFDICreimbursesBB&Tforthemajorityofthelossesincurred.Inaddition,alloftheloansacquiredwere

recordedatfairvalueasoftheacquisitiondatewithoutregardtothelosssharingagreements.Loanswereevaluatedand

assignedtoloanpoolsbasedoncommonriskcharacteristics.Thefairvalueoftheloanswasestimatedtobesignificantly

belowtheunpaidprincipalbalance.Inaccordancewiththeacquisitionmethodofaccounting,therewasnoallowance

broughtforwardonanyoftheacquiredloans,asthecreditlosseswereincludedinthedeterminationofthefairvalueof

theloansattheacquisitiondate.Charge-offsarerecognizedfortheseloanswhentheactuallossesexceedtheestimated

lossesusedindeterminingthefairvalueoftheloansattheacquisitiondate.AlloftheloansacquiredintheColonial

acquisitionwereconsideredtobeaccruingloansasoftheacquisitiondate.Inaccordancewithregulatoryreporting

standards,coveredloansthatarecontractuallypastduewillcontinuetobereportedaspastdueandstillaccruingbasedon

thenumberofdayspastdue.
Giventhesignificantamountofacquiredloansthatarepastduebutstillaccruing,BB&Tbelievestheinclusionofthese
loansincertainassetqualityratiosincluding“Loans30-89dayspastdueandstillaccruingasapercentageoftotalloans

andleases,”“Loans90daysormorepastdueandstillaccruingasapercentageoftotalloansandleases,”“Nonperforming

loansandleasesasapercentageoftotalloansandleases”andcertainotherassetqualityratiosthatreflectnonperforming

assetsinthenumeratorordenominator(orboth)resultsinsignificantdistortiontotheseratios.Inaddition,becauseloan

levelcharge-offsrelatedtotheacquiredloansarenotrecognizedinthefinancialstatementsuntilthecumulativeamounts

exceedtheoriginallossprojectionsonapoolbasis,thenetcharge-offratiofortheacquiredloansisnotconsistentwith

thenetcharge-offratioforotherloanportfolios.Theinclusionoftheseloansintheassetqualityratiosdescribedabove

couldresultinalackofcomparabilityacrossquartersoryears,andcouldnegativelyimpactcomparabilitywithother

portfoliosthatwerenotimpactedbyacquisitionaccounting.BB&Tbelievesthatthepresentationofassetquality

measuresexcludingcoveredloansandrelatedamountsfromboththenumeratoranddenominatorprovidesbetter

perspectiveintounderlyingtrendsrelatedtothequalityofitsloanportfolio.Accordingly,theassetqualitymeasuresin

Table18presentassetqualityinformationbothonaconsolidatedbasisaswellasexcludingthecoveredassetsandrelated

amounts.Inaddition,BB&Thasexcludedmortgageloansthatareguaranteedbythegovernment,primarilyFHA/VA

loans,fromitsassetqualitymetricsastheseloansarerecoverablethroughvariousgovernmentguarantees.Finally,BB&T

hasrecordedonthebalancesheetcertainamountsrelatedtodelinquentGNMAloansservicedforothersthatBB&Thas

theoption,butnottheobligation,torepurchaseandhaseffectivelyregainedcontrol.Theseamountsarealsoexcluded

fromassetqualitymetricsasreimbursementofinsuredamountsisproceedinginaccordancewithinvestorguidelines.The

amountofgovernmentguaranteedmortgageloansandGNMAloansservicedforothersthathavebeenexcludedarenoted

inthefootnotestoTable17.
57BB&T’spotentialproblemloansincludeloansonnonaccrualstatusorpastdueasdisclosedinTable17.Inaddition,for
itscommercialportfoliosegment,loansthatareratedspecialmentionorsubstandardperformingarecloselymonitoredby

managementaspotentialproblemloans.RefertoNote4“AllowanceforCreditLosses”inthe“NotestoConsolidated

FinancialStatements”hereinforadditionaldisclosuresrelatedtothesepotentialproblemloans.
Thefollowingtablessummarizeassetqualityinformationforthepastfiveyears.
Table17
AssetQuality
December31,
20112010200920082007(Dollarsinmillions)
Nonaccrualloansandleases:(1)
Commercialloansandleases$1,352$1,426$1,651$845$273

Directretaillending1421911978943

Salesfinanceloans
76775Residentialmortgageloans(2)308466707358113

Otherlendingsubsidiaries6360969762
Totalnonaccrualloansandleasesheldforinvestment1,8722,1492,6581,396496
Nonaccrualloansheldforsale—5215——
Totalnonaccrualloansandleases1,8722,6702,6631,396496
Foreclosedrealestate(3)5361,2591,451538143

Otherforeclosedproperty4242587951
Totalnonperformingassets(excludingcoveredassets)
(1)(2)(3)$2,450$3,971$4,172$2,013$690
Loans90daysormorepastdueandstillaccruing:
Commercialloansandleases$2$20$7$86$40

Directretaillending55768211758

Salesfinanceloans1827302617

Revolvingcreditloans1720252315

Residentialmortgageloans(4)(5)10414315015884

Otherlendingsubsidiaries5612148

Otheracquiredloans135——
Totalloans90daysormorepastdueandstillaccruing
(excludingcoveredloans)(4)(5)(6)$202$295$311$424$222
Loans30-89dayspastdue:
Commercialloansandleases$121$315$377$594$284

Directretaillending161189216270192

Salesfinanceloans7595126146105

Revolvingcreditloans2228323424

Residentialmortgageloans(7)(8)479532600665500

Otherlendingsubsidiaries273248306313243

Otheracquiredloans116——
Totalloans30-89dayspastdue(excludingcovered
loans)(7)(8)(9)$1,132$1,408$1,663$2,022$1,348
(1)Coveredandotheracquiredloansareconsideredtobeperformingduetotheapplicationoftheaccretionmethod.
Coveredloansthatarecontractuallypastduearenotedinthefootnotesbelow.
(2)Excludesnonaccrualmortgageloansthataregovernmentguaranteedtotaling$55million,$17millionand$6million
asofDecember31,2009,2008,and2007,respectively.BB&TreviseditsnonaccrualpolicyrelatedtoFHA/VA

guaranteedloansduring2010.Thechangeinpolicyresultedinadecreaseinnonaccrualmortgageloansandan

increaseinmortgageloans90dayspastdueandstillaccruingofapproximately$79million.
58(3)Excludesforeclosedrealestatetotaling$378million,$313millionand$160millionatDecember31,2011,2010and
2009,respectively,thatarecoveredbyFDIClosssharingagreements.
(4)ExcludesmortgageloansguaranteedbyGNMAthatBB&Tdoesnothavetheobligationtorepurchasethatare90
daysormorepastduetotaling$426million,$425million,$337million,$74millionand$18millionat

December31,2011,2010,2009,2008,and2007,respectively.
(5)Excludesmortgageloans90daysormorepastduethataregovernmentguaranteedtotaling$206million,$153
million,$8million,$7million,and$1millionatDecember31,2011,2010,2009,2008,and2007,respectively.

Includespastduemortgageloansheldforsale.
(6)Excludesloans90daysormorepastduethatarecoveredbyFDIClosssharingagreementstotaling$736million,
$1.1billionand$1.4billionatDecember31,2011,2010,and2009,respectively.
(7)ExcludesmortgageloansguaranteedbyGNMAthatBB&Tdoesnothavetheobligationtorepurchasethatarepast
due30-89daystotaling$7million,$7million,$10million,$12millionand$12millionatDecember31,2011,

2010,2009,2008,and2007,respectively.
(8)Excludesmortgageloanspastdue30-89daysthataregovernmentguaranteedtotaling$91million,$83million,$23
million,$25millionand$7millionatDecember31,2011,2010,2009,2008,and2007,respectively.Includespast

duemortgageloansheldforsale.
(9)Excludesloanspastdue30-89daysthatarecoveredbyFDIClosssharingagreementstotaling$222million,$363
millionand$391millionatDecember31,2011,2010and2009,respectively.
59Table18
AssetQualityRatios
Asof/fortheyearsendedDecember31,
20112010200920082007AssetQualityRatios(includingamountsrelatedtocovered
loansandcoveredforeclosedproperty):
Loans30-89dayspastdueandstillaccruingasa
percentageoftotalloansandleases(1)(2)1.22%1.65%1.93%2.05%1.47%
Loans90daysormorepastdueandstillaccruingasa
percentageoftotalloansandleases(1)(2)0.841.341.600.430.24
Nonperformingloansandleasesasapercentageoftotal
loansandleases1.682.492.511.420.54
Nonperformingassetsasapercentageof:
Totalassets1.622.732.611.320.52

Loansandleasesplusforeclosedproperty2.523.944.022.030.75
Netcharge-offsasapercentageofaverageloansand
leases1.572.411.740.890.38
Allowanceforloanandleaselossesasapercentageof
loansandleasesheldforinvestment2.102.622.511.621.10
Ratioofallowanceforloanandleaselossesto:
Netcharge-offs1.36x1.07x1.47x1.85x2.97x

Nonperformingloansandleasesheldforinvestment1.211.260.981.132.03
AssetQualityRatios(excludingamountsrelatedtocovered
loansandcoveredforeclosedproperty:(3)
Loans30-89dayspastdueandstillaccruingasa
percentageoftotalloansandleases(1)(2)1.06%1.39%1.69%2.05%1.47%
Loans90daysormorepastdueandstillaccruingasa
percentageoftotalloansandleases(1)(2)0.190.290.320.430.24
Nonperformingloansandleasesasapercentageoftotal
loansandleases1.762.642.711.420.54
Nonperformingassetsasapercentageof:
Totalassets1.452.642.651.320.52

Loansandleasesplusforeclosedproperty2.293.884.182.030.75
Netcharge-offsasapercentageofaverageloansand
leases1.592.591.790.890.38
Allowanceforloanandleaselossesasapercentageof
loansandleasesheldforinvestment2.052.632.721.621.10
Ratioofallowanceforloanandleaselossesto:
Netcharge-offs1.32x1.01x1.47x1.85x2.97x

Nonperformingloansandleasesheldforinvestment1.131.190.981.132.03
(1)ExcludesmortgageloansguaranteedbyGNMAthatBB&Tdoesnothavetheobligationtorepurchase.Refertothe
footnotesofTable17foramountsrelatedtotheseloans.
(2)Excludesmortgageloansguaranteedbythegovernment.RefertothefootnotesofTable17foramountsrelatedto
theseloans.
(3)Theseassetqualityratioshavebeenadjustedtoremovetheimpactofcoveredloansandcoveredforeclosedproperty.
Appropriateadjustmentstothenumeratoranddenominatorhavebeenreflectedinthecalculationoftheseratios.

Managementbelievestheinclusionofcoveredloansincertainassetqualityratiosthatincludenonperformingassets,

pastdueloansornetcharge-offsinthenumeratorordenominatorresultsindistortionoftheseratiosandtheymay

notbecomparabletootherperiodspresentedortootherportfoliosthatwerenotimpactedbyacquisitionaccounting.
Nonperformingassets,whichincludesforeclosedrealestate,repossessions,nonaccrualloansandcertainrestructured
loans,totaled$2.8billion(or$2.5billionexcludingcoveredloansandforeclosedproperty)atDecember31,2011,

comparedto$4.3billion(or$4.0billionexcludingcoveredloansandforeclosedproperty)atDecember31,2010.The
6038.3%decreaseinnonperformingassets,excludingcoveredforeclosedproperty,includeddecreasesof$798millionin
nonperformingloansand$723millioninforeclosedrealestate.Nonperformingassetshavedecreasedforseven

consecutivequartersandareattheirlowestlevelsinceDecember31,2008.Managementexpectsnonperformingassets

willcontinuetotrendlowerintherangeof5-10%forthefirstquarterof2012,assumingnosignificanteconomic

downturnorbulksalesofforeclosedproperties.RefertoTable19forananalysisofthechangesinnonperformingassets

during2011.Asapercentageofloansandleasesplusforeclosedproperty,nonperformingassetswere2.52%at

December31,2011(or2.29%excludingcoveredloansandforeclosedproperty)comparedwith3.94%(or3.88%

excludingcoveredloansandforeclosedproperty)atDecember31,2010.
Thecurrentinventoryofforeclosedrealestate,excludingamountscoveredunderFDIClosssharingagreements,totaled
$536millionasofDecember31,2011.Thisincludeslandandlots,whichtotaled$278millionandhadbeenheldfor

approximately16monthsonaverage.Theremainingforeclosedrealestateof$258million,whichisprimarilysingle

familyresidentialandcommercialrealestate,hadanaverageholdingperiodof11months.
Loans90daysormorepastdueandstillaccruinginterest,excludinggovernmentguaranteedloansandloanscoveredby
FDIClossshareagreements,totaled$202millionatDecember31,2011,comparedwith$295millionatyear-end2010,a

declineof31.5%.Loans30-89dayspastdue,excludinggovernmentguaranteedloansandloanscoveredbyFDICloss

shareagreements,totaled$1.1billionatDecember31,2011,whichwasadeclineof$276million,or19.6%,compared

with$1.4billionatyear-end2010.Pastdueloansareessentiallyatnormalizedlevelssimilarto2006results.
Thefollowingtablepresentsthechangesinnonperformingassets,excludingcoveredforeclosedproperty,during2011.
Table19
RollforwardofNonperformingAssets
December31,2011
(Dollarsinmillions)
BalanceatDecember31,2010$3,971
Newnonperformingassets3,216

Advancesandprincipalincreases120

Disposalsofforeclosedassets(1,062)

Commercialloansales(1)(1,139)

Charge-offsandlosses(1,719)

Payments(634)Transferstoperformingstatus(303)
BalanceatDecember31,2011$2,450
(1)Includescharge-offsandlossesrecordeduponsaleof$241million
Troubleddebtrestructurings(“restructurings”)generallyoccurwhenaborrowerisexperiencing,orisexpectedto
experience,financialdifficultiesinthenear-term.Asaresult,BB&Twillworkwiththeborrowertopreventfurther

difficulties,andultimatelytoimprovethelikelihoodofrecoveryontheloan.Tofacilitatethisprocess,aconcessionary

modificationthatwouldnototherwisebeconsideredmaybegrantedresultinginclassificationoftheloanasa

restructuring.RefertoNote1“SummaryofSignificantAccountingPolicies”inthe“NotestoConsolidatedFinancial

Statements”foradditionalpolicyinformationregardingrestructurings.
BB&T’sperformingrestructuredloans,excludinggovernmentguaranteedmortgageloans,totaled$1.1billionat
December31,2011,adecreaseof$367million,or24.9%,comparedwithDecember31,2010.Thedeclinewaslargely

relatedtocommercialperformingrestructurings.Thefollowingtableprovidesasummaryofcommercialperforming

restructuringactivityduringtheyearendedDecember31,2011.
61Table20
RollforwardofCommercialPerformingRestructuredLoans
December31,2011
(Dollarsinmillions)
BalanceatDecember31,2010$657
Inflows146Paymentsandpayoffs
(239)Transferstononperformingrestructurings(167)

Removalduetothepassageoftime(93)

Non-concessionaryre-modifications(69)
BalanceatDecember31,2011$235
Paymentsandpayoffsrepresentcashreceivedfromborrowersinconnectionwithscheduledprincipalpayments,

prepaymentsandpayoffsofamountsoutstandingatthematuritydateoftheloan.Transferstononperforming

restructuringsrepresentloansthatnolongermeettherequirementsnecessarytoreflecttheloaninaccruingstatusandasa

resultaresubsequentlyclassifiedasanonperformingrestructuring.
Restructuringsmayberemovedduetothepassageoftimeifthey:(1)didnotincludeaforgivenessofprincipalor
interest,(2)haveperformedinaccordancewiththemodifiedterms(generallyaminimumofsixmonths),(3)were

reportedasarestructuringoverayearendreportingperiod,and(4)reflectedaninterestrateonthemodifiedloanthatwas

amarketrateatthedateofmodification.Theseloanswerepreviouslyconsideredrestructuringsasaresultofstructural

concessionssuchasextendedinterest-onlytermsoranamortizationperiodthatdidnototherwiseconformtonormal

underwritingguidelines.
Inaddition,certaintransactionsmayberemovedfromclassificationasarestructuringasaresultofasubsequent
non-concessionaryre-modification.Non-concessionaryre-modificationsrepresentrestructuringsthatdidnotcontain

concessionarytermsatthedateofasubsequentrenewal/modificationandtherewasareasonableexpectationthatthe

borrowerwouldcontinuetocomplywiththetermsoftheloansubsequenttothedateofthere-modification.A

re-modificationmaybeconsideredforsuchare-classificationiftheloanhasnothadaforgivenessofprincipalorinterest

andthemodifiedtermsqualifyasmorethanminorsuchthatthere-modifiedloanisconsideredanewloan.Alternatively,

suchloansmaybeconsideredforreclassificationinyearssubsequenttothedateofthere-modificationbasedonthe

passageoftimeasdescribedintheprecedingparagraph.
Inconnectionwithconsumerloanrestructurings,anonperformingloanwillbereturnedtoaccruingstatuswhencurrentas
toprincipalandinterestanduponasustainedhistoricalrepaymentperformance(generallyaminimumofsixmonths).
62ThefollowingtableprovidesfurtherdetailsregardingthepaymentstatusofTDRsoutstandingatDecember31,2011:
Table21
TroubledDebtRestructurings
December31,2011
CurrentStatus
PastDue
30-89Days(1)
PastDue
90DaysOrMore(1)
Total(Dollarsinmillions)
Performingrestructurings:
Commercial:Commercialandindustrial$7398.6%$11.4%$——%$74

Commercialrealestate-other11699.110.9——117

Commercialrealestate-
residentialADC44100.0————44
Directretaillending13693.185.521.4146

Salesfinance450.0112.5337.58

Revolvingcredit5080.669.769.762

Residentialmortgage(2)48880.39215.1284.6608

Otherlendingsubsidiaries4590.0510.0——50
Totalperforming
restructurings(2)95686.211410.3393.51,109
Nonperformingrestructurings(3)9734.65720.412645.0280
Totalrestructurings(2)$1,05375.8$17112.3$16511.9$1,389
(1)Pastdueperformingrestructuringsareincludedinpastduedisclosures.

(2)Excludesrestructuredmortgageloansthataregovernmentguaranteedtotaling$236million.

(3)Nonperformingrestructuringsareincludedinnonaccrualloandisclosures.
AllowanceforCreditLosses
Theallowanceforcreditlosses,whichtotaled$2.3billionand$2.8billionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively,
consistsoftheallowanceforloanandleaselosses,whichispresentedontheConsolidatedBalanceSheets,andthereserve

forunfundedlendingcommitments,whichisincludedinotherliabilitiesontheConsolidatedBalanceSheets.The

allowanceforloanandleaselossesamountedto2.10%ofloansandleasesheldforinvestmentatDecember31,2011(or

2.05%excludingcoveredloans),comparedto2.62%(or2.63%excludingcoveredloans)atyear-end2010.Thedeclinein

theallowanceforloanandleaselossesreflectscontinuedimprovementinthecreditqualityoftheloanportfolio,

especiallyinthecommercialportfoliosegmentduetoimprovementinrisk-grademigrationtrendsandreductionsin

higher-riskcommercialrealestateloans.Impairedcommercialloanscontinuetodecline;however,theallowancefor

commercialloansasapercentageofimpairedcommercialloanshasincreasedfrom11.2%atDecember31,2010to

12.4%atDecember31,2011.Theratiooftheallowanceforloanandleaselossestononperformingloansheldfor

investment,excludingcoveredloans,was1.13xatDecember31,2011comparedto1.19xatDecember31,2010.
BB&T’snetcharge-offstotaled$1.7billionfor2011andamountedto1.57%ofaverageloansandleases(or1.59%
excludingcoveredloans),comparedto$2.5billion,or2.41%ofaverageloansandleases(or2.59%excludingcovered

loans),in2010.Includedinnetcharge-offsfor2011is$66millionofcharge-offsrelatedtocoveredloans.Thisrepresents

realizedlossesincertainacquiredloanpoolsthatexceedtheamountsoriginallyestimatedattheacquisitiondate.This

impairment,whichissubjecttothelosssharingagreements,wasprovidedforinpriorquartersandthereforethe

charge-offhadnoincomestatementimpact.Netcharge-offsfor2011and2010,included$87millionand$605millionof

lossesonthesalesofproblemloansinconnectionwithmanagement’snonperformingassetdispositionstrategy.

Excludingtheseitems,theadjustednetcharge-offratiowouldhavebeen1.50%in2011and1.97%in2010.Netcharge-

offsimprovedinallofthelendingportfolioscomparedtotheprioryear,withthemostsignificantreductionsinthe

commercialrealestateportfolios.Managementexpectsnetcharge-offstoapproximate1.30%inthefirstquarterof2012

andtrendlowerthroughouttheremainderoftheyear.
63RefertoNote4“AllowanceforCreditLosses”inthe“NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements”foradditional
disclosures.Thefollowingtablepresentsanestimatedallocationoftheallowanceforloanandleaselossesattheendofeachofthe
lastfiveyears.Thisallocationoftheallowanceforloanandleaselossesiscalculatedonanapproximatebasisandisnot

necessarilyindicativeoffuturelossesorallocations.Theentireamountoftheallowanceisavailabletoabsorblosses

occurringinanycategoryofloansandleases.
Table22
AllocationofAllowanceforLoanandLeaseLossesbyCategory
December31,
20112010200920082007Amount%Loans
ineach
categoryAmount%Loans
ineach
categoryAmount%Loans
ineach
categoryAmount%Loans
ineach
categoryAmount%Loans
ineach
category(Dollarsinmillions)
Balancesatendofperiodapplicableto:
Commercialloansandleases$1,05345.7%$1,53647.1%$1,57448.2%$91251.9%$54849.3%

Directretaillending23213.524613.329713.812415.97917.3

Salesfinance386.9476.8776.1556.5586.6

Revolvingcredit1122.11092.11271.9941.8701.8

Residentialmortgage36519.229817.013114.99117.62519.2

Otherlendingsubsidiaries1978.11987.72647.42386.31715.8

Covered1494.51446.0—7.7————

Unallocated110—130—130—60—53—
Totalallowanceforloan
andleaselosses2,256100.0%2,708100.0%2,600100.0%1,574100.0%1,004100.0%
Reserveforunfunded
lendingcommitments2947723311
Totalallowanceforcredit
losses$2,285$2,755$2,672$1,607$1,015
64InformationrelevanttoBB&T’sallowanceforloanandleaselossesforthelastfiveyearsispresentedinthefollowing
table.Table23
AnalysisofAllowanceforCreditLosses
December31,
20112010200920082007(Dollarsinmillions)
AllowanceForCreditLosses
Beginningbalance$2,755$2,672$1,607$1,015$888

Provisionforcreditlosses(excludingcoveredloans)1,1192,4942,8111,445448

Provisionforcoveredloans71144———
Charge-offs:Commercialloansandleases(1)(898)(1,508)(720)(276)(65)

Directretaillending(276)(338)(349)(156)(72)

Salesfinance(32)(48)(72)(59)(31)

Revolvingcredit(95)(118)(127)(79)(47)

Residentialmortgage(2)(269)(394)(280)(96)(10)

Otherlendingsubsidiaries(190)(252)(314)(251)(180)

Coveredloans(66)
————Totalcharge-offs(1)(2)(1,826)(2,658)(1,862)(917)(405)
Recoveries:Commercialloansandleases7137211617

Directretaillending3733191213

Salesfinance
99978Revolvingcredit1916121112

Residentialmortgage
5451—
Otherlendingsubsidiaries2531231917
Totalrecoveries166130896667
Netcharge-offs(1)(2)(1,660)(2,528)(1,773)(851)(338)
Otherchanges,net—(27)27(2)17
Endingbalance$2,285$2,755$2,672$1,607$1,015
AllowanceForCreditLosses:
Allowanceforloanandleaselosses(excluding
coveredloans)$2,107$2,564$2,600$1,574$1,004
Allowanceforcoveredloans149144———

Reserveforunfundedlendingcommitments2947723311
Totalallowanceforcreditlosses$2,285$2,755$2,672$1,607$1,015
(1)Includescharge-offsof$464millionincommercialloansandleasesduring2010inconnectionwithBB&T’s
nonperformingloans(“NPL”)dispositionstrategy.
(2)Includescharge-offsof$87millionand$141millioninresidentialmortgageloansduring2011and2010,
respectively,inconnectionwithBB&T’sNPLdispositionstrategy.
65ThefollowingtablesprovidefurtherdetailsregardingBB&T’scommercialrealestatelending,residentialmortgageand
consumerrealestateportfoliosasofDecember31,2011.Geographicinformationhasbeenpresentedforstatesthat

exceed10%ofthecategorytotal.ConsistentwithBB&T’sbeliefthatthepresentationofcertainassetqualitymeasures

excludingtheimpactofcoveredloansismoremeaningful,certaininformationreflectedinthefollowingtableshasbeen

adjustedtoexcludetheimpactofcoveredloansandforeclosedproperty.Theseadjustmentshavebeenidentifiedand

explainedinthefootnotestoeachtable.
Table24
RealEstateLendingPortfolioCreditQualityandGeographicDistribution
CommercialRealEstateLoanPortfolio(1)(2)
Asof/ForthePeriodEndedDecember31,2011
CommercialRealEstate-ResidentialADC
Builder/
ConstructionLand/Land
DevelopmentCondos/
TownhomesTotalADC
(Dollarsinmillions,unlessnotedotherwise)
Totalloansoutstanding$551$1,427$83$2,061
Averageloansize(inthousands)205462697350
Averageclientsize(inthousands)5317361,582679
Nonaccrualloansandleasesasapercentageof
category14.38%19.73%18.77%18.26%
Grosscharge-offsasapercentageofcategory:
Year-to-Date7.3112.895.3711.01

Quarter-to-Date7.5820.170.9315.93
TotalOutstandingsNonaccrualasa
Percentageof
OutstandingsGrossCharge-Offsasa
PercentageofOutstandings
CommercialRealEstate-ResidentialADCbyStateof

OriginationYear-to-DateQuarter-to-Date(Dollarsinmillions)
NorthCarolina$92418.07%12.22%14.79%
Virginia43211.572.794.46

Other70522.6113.8623.96
Total$2,06118.2611.0115.93
CommercialRealEstate-Other(3)
CommercialConstructionCommercialLand/
DevelopmentPermanentIncomeProducing
PropertiesTotalOther
CommercialReal
Estate(Dollarsinmillions,unlessnotedotherwise)
Totalloansoutstanding$798$1,033$8,866$10,697
Averageloansize(inthousands)917595513538
Averageclientsize(inthousands)1,227703783795
Nonaccrualloansandleasesasapercentageof
category1.90%9.99%3.11%3.68%
Grosscharge-offsasapercentageofcategory:
Year-to-Date2.307.031.952.53

Quarter-to-Date3.724.671.772.21
Nonaccrualasa
Percentageof
OutstandingsGrossCharge-Offsasa
PercentageofOutstandings
CommercialRealEstate-OtherbyStateofOrigination(3)
TotalOutstandingsYear-to-DateQuarter-to-Date(Dollarsinmillions)
NorthCarolina$3,2613.55%1.66%1.00%
Virginia1,8301.621.061.52

Georgia1,5706.214.604.35

Other4,0363.743.082.65
Total$10,6973.682.532.21
66Applicableratiosareannualized.
(1)Commercialrealestateloans(CRE)aredefinedasloanstofinancenon-owneroccupiedrealpropertywherethe
primaryrepaymentsourceisthesaleorrental/leaseoftherealproperty.Definitionisbasedoninternalclassification.

Excludescoveredloansandinprocessitems.
(2)Includesnetcharge-offsandaveragebalancesrelatedtoloanstransferredtoheldforsalewhiletheywereheldfor
investment.Loanstransferredtoheldforsaleareexcludedfromtotalloansoutstanding.AsofDecember31,2011,

therewerenoADCloansorotherCREloansheldforsale.
(3)C&Iloanssecuredbyrealpropertyareexcluded.
Thecommercialrealestate-residentialADCloansheldforinvestmentportfoliototaled$2.1billionatDecember31,2011,
adecreaseof$1.3billionfromDecember31,2010.NonaccrualADCloansheldforinvestmentwere$376millionat

December31,2011,adecreaseof$137million,comparedto$513millionatDecember31,2010.Asapercentageof

loansheldforinvestment,ADCnonaccrualswere18.26%atDecember31,2011,comparedto15.09%atDecember31,

2010.TheallowanceforloanandleaselossesthatisassignedtotheADCportfoliowas13.9%and13.8%oftheADC

portfolioasofDecember31,2011andyear-end2010,respectively.Thegrosscharge-offratefortheADCportfoliowas

11.01%for2011,comparedto13.86%for2010.Theothercomponentofthecommercialrealestateportfolio,whichis

largelyofficebuildings,hotels,warehouses,apartments,rentalhousesandshoppingcenters,totaled$10.7billionat

December31,2011.Asapercentageofloansheldforinvestment,othercommercialrealestatenonaccrualswere3.68%at

December31,2011,comparedwith3.53%atDecember31,2010.Thegrosscharge-offratefortheothercommercialreal

estateportfoliowas2.53%for2011comparedto3.83%for2010.Theimprovementinthenetcharge-offrateinthe

commercialrealestateportfolioswaslargelyduetothelossestakenin2010relatedtoloanstransferredtotheheldfor

saleportfolio.
Table25
RealEstateLendingPortfolioCreditQualityandGeographicDistribution
ResidentialMortgagePortfolio(1)
Asof/ForthePeriodEndedDecember31,2011
ResidentialMortgageLoans
PrimeALT-AConstruction/PermanentSubprime(2)
Total(Dollarsinmillions,unlessnotedotherwise)
Totalloansoutstanding$18,224$1,696$410$413$20,743
Averageloansize(inthousands)19429528158192
Averagerefreshedcreditscore(3)731696729577725
Percentagethatarefirstmortgages100%100%100%82%100%
Averageloantovalueatorigination7368737473
Nonaccrualloansandleasesasa
percentageofcategory1.064.475.098.741.57
Grosscharge-offsasapercentageof
category:Year-to-Date0.994.262.826.061.48

Quarter-to-Date0.622.732.316.310.95
TotalOutstandingsNonaccrualasa
Percentageof
OutstandingsGrossCharge-Offsasa
PercentageofOutstandings
ResidentialMortgageLoansbyState
Year-to-DateQuarter-to-Date(Dollarsinmillions)
NorthCarolina$4,9601.30%0.97%0.66%
Virginia3,3211.121.010.42

Florida2,4613.363.562.18

Other10,0011.421.370.97
Total$20,7431.571.480.95
Applicableratiosareannualized.
67(1)Excludesmortgageloansheldforsale,coveredloans,mortgageloansguaranteedbyGNMAthatBB&Tdoesnot
havetheobligationtorepurchaseandinprocessitems.
(2)Includes$297millioninloansoriginatedbyLendmarkFinancialServices,whicharedisclosedasapartoftheother
lendingsubsidiariescategory.
(3)Weightedbasedonoutstandingbalance.
Theresidentialmortgageloanportfolio,aspresentedinTable25,totaled$20.7billionasofDecember31,2011,an
increaseof16.6%comparedtoDecember31,2010.Asapercentageofloans,nonaccrualresidentialmortgageloanswere

1.57%atDecember31,2011,comparedwith2.72%atDecember31,2010.Thegrosscharge-offratefortheresidential

mortgageloanportfoliowas1.48%in2011comparedto2.50%for2010.Thedeclineinnonaccrualresidentialmortgage

loansandthelowercharge-offratereflectthesaleofproblemloanscompletedduringthesecondquarterof2011.During

thesecondquarterof2011,managementsoldapproximately$271millionofproblemresidentialmortgageloansand

recordedcharge-offsof$87million.Ofthe$271millionofloanssold,$231millionwereclassifiedasnonaccrual.In

2010,managementsold$388millionofproblemresidentialmortgageloansandrecognized$141millionofnetcharge-

offs.CertainofBB&T’sresidentialmortgageloanshaveaninitialperiodwheretheborrowerisonlyrequiredtopaythe
periodicinterest.Aftertheinitialperiod,theloanwillrequireboththepaymentofinterestandprincipaloverthe

remainingterm.AsofDecember31,2011,approximately11%oftheoutstandingbalanceofresidentialmortgageloansis

currentlyintheinterest-onlyphase.Approximately13%ofthesebalanceswillbeginamortizingwithinthenextthree

years.AsofDecember31,2011,4.3%oftheseinterest-onlyloansare30daysormorepastdueandstillaccruinginterest

and2.8%areonnonaccrualstatus.
Table26
RealEstateLendingPortfolioCreditQualityandGeographicDistribution
DirectRetail1-4FamilyandLot/LandRealEstatePortfolio(1)
Asof/ForthePeriodEndedDecember31,2011
DirectRetail1-4FamilyandLot/LandRealEstateLoans&Lines
ResidentialLot/LandLoansHomeEquity
LoansHomeEquity
LinesTotal(Dollarsinmillions,unlessotherwisenoted)
Totalloansoutstanding$1,068$6,985$5,233$13,286
Averageloansize(inthousands)(2)55503643

Averagerefreshedcreditscore(3)725729764749

Percentagethatarefirstmortgages100%83%29%63%

Averageloantovalueatorigination78626363

Nonaccrualloansandleasesasapercentageof
category3.401.050.571.05
Grosscharge-offsasapercentageofcategory:
Year-to-Date7.571.311.331.92

Quarter-to-Date6.300.921.231.50
Nonaccrualasa
Percentageof
OutstandingsGrossCharge-Offsasa
PercentageofOutstandings
DirectRetail1-4FamilyandLot/LandRealEstate

LoansandLinesByStateofOrigination
TotalOutstandingsYear-to-DateQuarter-to-Date(Dollarsinmillions)
NorthCarolina$4,4351.18%1.99%1.68%
Virginia3,0090.660.890.61

Other5,8421.162.391.83
Total$13,2861.051.921.50
Applicableratiosareannualized.

(1)Directretail1-4familyandlot/landrealestateloansareoriginatedthroughtheBB&TCommunityBankingnetwork.
Excludescoveredloansandinprocessitems.
(2)Homeequitylineswithoutanoutstandingbalanceareexcludedfromthiscalculation.

(3)Basedonnumberofaccounts.
68Thedirectretailconsumerrealestateloanportfolio,aspresentedinTable26,totaled$13.3billionasofDecember31,
2011,a$556millionincreasefromDecember31,2010.Thisportfolioiscomposedofresidentiallot/landloans,home

equityloansandhomeequitylines,whichareprimarilyoriginatedthroughtheCommunityBankingnetwork.Asa

percentageofloans,directretailconsumerrealestatenonaccrualswere1.05%atDecember31,2011,comparedto1.46%

atDecember31,2010.Thegrosscharge-offrateforthedirectretailconsumerrealestatelendingportfoliowas1.92%for

2011comparedto2.32%for2010.Theallowancefortheresidentiallot/landportfoliowas9.2%oftheresidentiallot/land

portfolioasofDecember31,2011comparedto7.3%atDecember31,2010.
BB&T’shomeequitylinesgenerallyrequirethepaymentofinterest-onlyduringthefirst15yearsafterorigination.After
thisinitialperiod,theoutstandingbalancebeginsamortizingandrequiresboththepaymentofinterestandprincipal.Asof

December31,2011,approximately66%oftheoutstandingbalanceofhomeequitylinesiscurrentlyintheinterest-only

phase.Lessthan5%ofthesebalanceswillbeginamortizingwithinthenextthreeyears.Thedelinquencyrateof

interest-onlylinesissimilartoamortizinglines.
BB&Tmonitorstheperformanceofitshomeequityloansandlinessecuredbysecondlienssimilartootherconsumer
loansandutilizesassumptionsspecifictotheseloansindeterminingthenecessaryallowance.BB&Talsoreceives

notificationwhenthefirstlienholder,whetherBB&Toranotherfinancialinstitution,hasinitiatedforeclosure

proceedingsagainsttheborrower.Whennotifiedthatthefirstlienisintheprocessofforeclosure,BB&Tobtains

valuationstodetermineifanyadditionalcharge-offsorreservesarewarranted.Thesevaluationsareupdatedatleast

annuallythereafter.
BB&Thaslimitedabilitytomonitorthedelinquencystatusofthefirstlien,unlessthefirstlienisheldorservicedby
BB&T.Asaresult,usingmigrationassumptionsthatarebasedonhistoricalexperienceandadjustedforcurrenttrends,

BB&Testimatesthevolumeofsecondlienpositionswherethefirstlienisdelinquentandappropriatelyadjuststhe

allowancetoreflecttheincreasedriskoflossonthesecredits.Finally,BB&Talsoprovidesadditionalreservestosecond

lienpositionswhentheestimatedcombinedcurrentloantovalueratioforthecreditexceeds100%.AsofDecember31,

2011,BB&Theldorservicedthefirstlienon41.1%ofitssecondlienpositions.
FundingActivities
Depositsaretheprimarysourceoffundsforlendingandinvestingactivities,andtheircostisthelargestcategoryof
interestexpense.Scheduledpayments,aswellasprepayments,andmaturitiesfromportfoliosofloansandinvestment

securitiesalsoprovideastablesourceoffunds.FederalHomeLoanBank(“FHLB”)advances,othersecuredborrowings,

Federalfundspurchasedandothershort-termborrowedfunds,aswellaslonger-termdebtissuedthroughthecapital

markets,allprovidesupplementalliquiditysources.BB&T’sfundingactivitiesaremonitoredandgovernedthrough

BB&T’soverallasset/liabilitymanagementprocess,whichisfurtherdiscussedinthe“MarketRiskManagement”section

in“Management’sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations”herein.Followingisabrief

descriptionofthevarioussourcesoffundsusedbyBB&T.
DepositsDepositsareattractedprincipallyfromclientswithinBB&T’sbranchnetworkthroughtheofferingofabroadselectionof
depositinstrumentstoindividualsandbusinesses,includingnoninterest-bearingcheckingaccounts,interest-bearing

checkingaccounts,savingsaccounts,moneymarketdepositaccounts,certificatesofdepositandindividualretirement

accounts.Depositaccounttermsvarywithrespecttotheminimumbalancerequired,thetimeperiodthefundsmust

remainondepositandservicechargeschedules.Interestratespaidonspecificdeposittypesaredeterminedbasedon

(i)theinterestratesofferedbycompetitors,(ii)theanticipatedamountandtimingoffundingneeds,(iii)theavailability

andcostofalternativesourcesoffunding,and(iv)theanticipatedfutureeconomicconditionsandinterestrates.Deposits

areattractivesourcesoffundingbecauseoftheirstabilityandrelativecost.Depositsareregardedasanimportantpartof

theoverallclientrelationshipandprovideopportunitiestocross-sellotherBB&Tservices.
TotaldepositsatDecember31,2011,were$124.9billion,anincreaseof$17.7billion,or16.5%,comparedtoyear-end
2010.Noninterest-bearingdepositstotaled$25.7billionatDecember31,2011,anincreaseof$5.0billion,or24.5%,from

December31,2010.Foreignofficedeposits,whichareplacedthroughBB&T’sCaymanIslandoffice,declined$4.5

billionduring2011,asthestrongdepositgrowthlimitedtheneedforthesetypesoffundingsources.Fortheyearended

December31,2011,totaldepositsaveraged$112.3billion,anincreaseof$5.5billion,or5.2%,comparedto2010.
69Averagedepositsgrewataslowerpacethanperiod-enddeposits,asasignificanteffortwasmadeinthelatterpartof2011
toattracthigh-qualitycorporateclientsinconnectionwithmeetingtheproposedBaselIIIliquidityguidelines.

Managementexpectsaveragedepositgrowthtobemoremoderateinthefirstquarterof2012thanthelatterpartof2011.
ThefollowingtablepresentsBB&T’saveragedepositsfortheyearsendedDecember31,2011and2010,segregatedby
majorcategory:
Table27
CompositionofAverageDeposits
YearsEndedDecember31,
20112010Balance%oftotal
Balance%oftotal
(Dollarsinmillions)
Noninterest-bearingdeposits$22,94520.4%$19,74218.5%

Interestchecking18,61416.616,47715.4

Moneymarketandsavings41,28736.734,94232.7

Certificatesandothertimedeposits28,82525.733,69931.6

Foreignofficedeposits-interest-bearing6470.61,9131.8
Totalaveragedeposits$112,318100.0%$106,773100.0%
Theoverallmixofdepositsimprovedduring2011,withaveragenoninterest-bearingdepositsrepresenting20.4%oftotal

depositsatDecember31,2011,comparedto18.5%atyear-end2010.Inaddition,interestcheckingandmoneymarket

andsavingsaccountsrepresentedahigherpercentageoftotaldeposits,whilecertificatesofdepositandforeignoffice

depositsdeclined.Thegrowthindepositswaslargelydrivenbycommercialandpublicfundsclients,assomehighercost

retailcertificatesofdepositwerenotrenewed.Thecostofinterest-bearingdepositswas0.68%for2011,comparedto

1.05%intheprioryear.Thecostcamedowneachquarterduring2011andwas0.56%forthefourthquarter.Management

expectsthatdepositcostswillcontinuetotrenddownin2012.
Thefollowingtableprovidesinformationregardingthescheduledmaturitiesoftimedepositsthatare$100,000and
greateratDecember31,2011:
Table28
ScheduledMaturitiesofTimeDeposits$100,000andGreater
December31,2011
(Dollarsinmillions)
MaturitySchedule:
Threemonthsorless$10,455

Overthreethroughsixmonths2,209

Oversixthroughtwelvemonths1,849

Overtwelvemonths
5,306Total$19,819
Short-termBorrowings
BB&Talsousesvarioustypesofshort-termborrowingsinmeetingfundingneeds.Whiledepositsremaintheprimary
sourceforfundingloanoriginations,managementusesshort-termborrowingsasasupplementaryfundingsourceforloan

growthandotherbalancesheetmanagementpurposes.Short-termborrowingswere3.2%oftotalfundingonaveragein

2011ascomparedto5.7%in2010.SeeNote8“FederalFundsPurchased,SecuritiesSoldUnderAgreementsto

RepurchaseandShort-TermBorrowedFunds”inthe“NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements”hereinforfurther

disclosure.Thetypesofshort-termborrowingsthathavebeenormaybeusedbytheCorporationincludeFederalfunds

purchased,securitiessoldunderrepurchaseagreements,masternotes,commercialpaper,U.S.Treasurytaxandloan

depositnotesandshort-termbanknotes.AllofBB&T’ssecuritiessoldunderrepurchaseagreementsarereflectedas

collateralizedborrowingsonthebalancesheet.Short-termborrowingsattheendof2011were$3.6billion,adecreaseof

$2.1billion,or37.1%,comparedtoyear-end2010.Averageshort-termborrowingstotaled$5.2billionduring2011
70comparedto$9.0billionlastyear,adecreaseof42.5%.Thedeclineinthebalancesduring2011primarilyreflectsthe
strongdepositgrowthfromtheBaselIIIliquidityinitiative,whichreducedtheneedforthesetypesoffundingsources.

Thedifferencebetweentheaveragebalanceandtheyear-endbalanceresultedfromlargerdepositgrowthinthelatterhalf

of2011.
ThefollowingtablesummarizescertainpertinentinformationforthepastthreeyearswithrespecttoBB&T’sshort-term
borrowings:Table29
FederalFundsPurchased,SecuritiesSoldUnder
AgreementstoRepurchaseandShort-TermBorrowedFunds
Asof/FortheYearsEndedDecember31,
201120102009(Dollarsinmillions)
SecuritiesSoldUnderAgreementstoRepurchase:
Maximumoutstandingatanymonth-endduringthe
year$1,176$2,299$2,635
Balanceoutstandingatendofyear6191,1892,197

Averageoutstandingduringtheyear9561,6202,259

Averageinterestrateduringtheyear0.73%0.85%0.96%

Averageinterestrateatendofyear0.310.960.69
FederalFundsPurchasedandShort-TermBorrowedFunds:
Maximumoutstandingatanymonth-endduringthe
year$9,350$10,486$17,436
Balanceoutstandingatendofyear2,9474,4845,909

Averageoutstandingduringtheyear4,2337,40210,232

Averageinterestrateduringtheyear0.10%0.10%0.35

Averageinterestrateatendofyear0.170.320.21
Long-termDebt
BB&Talsouseslong-termdebttoprovidebothfundingand,toalesserextent,regulatorycapital.Long-termdebtwas
13.7%oftotalfundingonaverageduring2011and13.6%in2010.SeeNote10“Long-TermDebt”inthe“Notesto

ConsolidatedFinancialStatements”hereinforfurtherdisclosure.Long-termdebtatDecember31,2011totaled$21.8

billion.FortheyearendedDecember31,2011,averagelong-termdebtincreased$604million,or2.8%,comparedtothe

averagefor2010.
BB&T’slong-termdebtconsistsprimarilyofFHLBadvances,whichcomposed41.3%oftotaloutstandinglong-termdebt
atDecember31,2011;seniornotesofBB&TCorporation,whichcomposed23.1%oftheyear-endbalance;subordinated

notesofBB&TCorporation,whichcomposed10.8%oftheyear-endbalance;andjuniorsubordinateddebtto

unconsolidatedtrustsissuedbytheCorporation,whichcomposed15.0%oftotaloutstandinglong-termdebtat

December31,2011.Theremaininglong-termdebtprimarilyconsistsofbothunsecuredseniorandsubordinated

borrowingsbyBranchBank.FHLBadvancesarecost-effectivelong-termfundingsourcesthatprovideBB&Twiththe

flexibilitytostructurethedebtinamannerthataidsinthemanagementofinterestrateriskandliquidity.
Shareholders’Equity
Shareholders’equitytotaled$17.5billionatDecember31,2011,anincreaseof$982million,or6.0%,fromyear-end
2010.BB&T’sbookvaluepercommonshareatDecember31,2011was$24.98,comparedto$23.67atDecember31,

2010.Shareholders’equityincreased$836millionduetoBB&T’searningsavailabletocommonshareholdersretainedafter
dividendsdeclared.Inaddition,shareholders’equityincreased$110millionasaresultoftheissuanceofadditionalshares

andothertransactionsinconnectionwithBB&T’sequity-basedcompensationplans,401(k)plananddividend

reinvestmentplan.Accumulatedothercomprehensiveincomeincreased$34million.Theincreaseinaccumulatedother
71comprehensiveincomewasprimarilyduetoa$401millionafter-taxincreaseinthevalueoftheavailableforsale
securitiesportfolio,partiallyoffsetbydeclinesof$235millionrelatedtopensionsandotherpost-retirementbenefitplans

and$112millioninunrecognizedlossesoncashflowhedges.
BB&T’stangibleshareholders’equityavailabletocommonshareholderswas$11.7billionatDecember31,2011,an
increaseof$952million,or8.9%,comparedtoDecember31,2010.BB&T’stangiblebookvaluepercommonshareat

December31,2011was$16.73comparedto$15.43atDecember31,2010.AsofDecember31,2011,measuresof

tangiblecapitalwerenotrequiredbytheregulatorsand,therefore,wereconsiderednon-GAAPmeasures.Refertothe

sectiontitled“Capital”hereinforadiscussionofhowBB&Tcalculatesandusesthesemeasuresintheevaluationofthe

Company.RiskManagement
InthenormalcourseofbusinessBB&Tencountersinherentriskinitsbusinessactivities.Riskismanagedona
decentralizedbasiswithriskdecisionsmadeascloselyaspossibletowheretheriskoccurs.Centrally,riskoversightis

managedatthecorporatelevelthroughoversight,policiesandreporting.Theprincipaltypesofinherentriskinclude

regulatory,credit,liquidity,market,operational,reputationandstrategicrisks.
Regulatoryrisk
Regulatoryriskistherisktoearnings,capital,orreputationarisingfromviolationsof,ornonconformancewithcurrentand
changinglaws,regulations,supervisoryguidance,regulatoryexpectations,ortherules,standards,orcodesofconductofself

regulatoryorganizations.
Creditrisk
Creditriskistherisktoearningsorcapitalarisingfromthedefault,inabilityorunwillingnessofaborrower,obligor,or
counterpartytomeetthetermsofanyfinancialobligationwithBB&Torotherwiseperformasagreed.Creditriskexistsin

allactivitieswheresuccessdependsontheperformanceofaborrower,obligor,orcounterparty.Creditriskariseswhen

BB&Tfundsareextended,committed,invested,orotherwiseexposedthroughactualorimpliedcontractualagreements,

whetheronoroffthebalancesheet.Creditriskalsooccurswhenthecreditqualityofanissuerwhosesecuritiesorother

instrumentsthebankholdsdeteriorates.
BB&Thasestablishedthefollowinggeneralpracticestomanagecreditrisk:
•limitingtheamountofcreditthatindividuallendersmayextendtoaborrower;

•establishingaprocessforcreditapprovalaccountability;

•carefulinitialunderwritingandanalysisofborrower,transaction,marketandcollateralrisks;

•ongoingservicingofindividualloansandlendingrelationships;

•continuousmonitoringoftheportfolio,marketdynamicsandtheeconomy;and

•periodicallyreevaluatingthebank’sstrategyandoverallexposureaseconomic,marketandotherrelevant
conditionschange.
ThefollowingdiscussionpresentstheprincipaltypesoflendingconductedbyBB&Tanddescribestheunderwriting
proceduresandoverallriskmanagementofBB&T’slendingfunction.
UnderwritingApproach
Recognizingthattheloanportfolioisaprimarysourceofprofitabilityandrisk,properloanunderwritingiscriticalto
BB&T’slong-termfinancialsuccess.BB&T’sunderwritingapproachisdesignedtodefineacceptablecombinationsof

specificrisk-mitigatingfeaturesthatensurecreditrelationshipsconformtoBB&T’sriskphilosophy.Providedbelowisa

summaryofthemostsignificantunderwritingcriteriausedtoevaluatenewloansandloanrenewals:
•Cashflowanddebtservicecoverage
—cashflowadequacyisanecessaryconditionofcreditworthiness,meaning
thatloansnotclearlysupportedbyaborrower’scashflowmustbejustifiedbysecondaryrepaymentsources.
72•Secondarysourcesofrepayment
—alternativerepaymentfundsareasignificantrisk-mitigatingfactoraslongas
theyareliquid,canbeeasilyaccessedandprovideadequateresourcestosupplementtheprimarycashflow

source.•Valueofanyunderlyingcollateral
—loansaregenerallysecuredbytheassetbeingfinanced.Becauseananalysis
oftheprimaryandsecondarysourcesofrepaymentisthemostimportantfactor,collateral,unlessitisliquid,

doesnotjustifyloansthatcannotbeservicedbytheborrower’snormalcashflows.
•Overallcreditworthinessofthecustomer,takingintoaccountthecustomer’srelationships,bothpastandcurrent,
withotherlenders
—BB&T’ssuccessdependsonbuildinglastingandmutuallybeneficialrelationshipswith
clients,whichinvolvesassessingtheirfinancialpositionandbackground.
•Levelofequityinvestedinthetransaction
—ingeneral,borrowersarerequiredtocontributeorinvestaportionof
theirownfundspriortoanyloanadvances.
CommercialLoanandLeasePortfolio
ThecommercialloanandleaseportfoliorepresentsthelargestcategoryoftheCorporation’stotalloanportfolio.BB&T’s
commerciallendingprogramisgenerallytargetedtoservesmall-to-middlemarketbusinesseswithsalesof$250million

orless.Inaddition,BB&T’sCorporateBankingGroupprovideslendingsolutionstolargecorporateclients.Traditionally,

lendingtosmallandmid-sizedbusinesseshasbeenamongBB&T’sstrongestmarketsegments.
CommercialandsmallbusinessloansareprimarilyoriginatedthroughBB&T’sCommunityBank.Inaccordancewiththe
Corporation’slendingpolicy,eachloanundergoesadetailedunderwritingprocess,whichincorporatesBB&T’s

underwritingapproach,proceduresandevaluationsdescribedabove.Inaddition,BranchBankhasadoptedaninternal

maximumcreditexposurelendinglimitof$245millionfora“bestgrade”credit,whichisconsiderablybelowBranch

Bank’smaximumlegallendinglimit.Commercialloansaretypicallypricedwithaninterestratetiedtomarketindices,

suchastheprimerateandtheLondonInterbankOfferedRate(“LIBOR”),orafixed-rate.Commercialloansare

individuallymonitoredandreviewedforanypossibledeteriorationintheabilityoftheclienttorepaytheloan.

Approximately90%ofBB&T’scommercialloansaresecuredbyrealestate,businessequipment,inventoriesandother

typesofcollateral.
Inthenormalcourseofbusiness,residentialacquisition,developmentandconstruction,commercialconstructionor
commercialland/developmentloanagreementsmayincludeaninterestreserveaccountatinception.Aninterestreserve

allowstheborrowertoaddinterestchargestotheoutstandingloanbalanceduringtheconstructionperiod.Interest

reservesprovideaneffectivemeanstoaddressthecashflowcharacteristicsofarealestateconstructionloan.Loan

agreementscontaininganinterestreservegenerallyrequiremoreequitytobecontributedbytheborrowertothe

constructionprojectatinception.Loanswithinterestreservesaresubjecttosubstantiallysimilarunderwritingstandardsas

loanswithoutinterestreserves.
Loanswithinterestreservesarecloselymonitoredthroughphysicalinspections,reconciliationofdrawrequests,reviewof
rentrollsandoperatingstatementsandquarterlyportfolioreviewsperformedbyseniormanagement.Whenappropriate,

extensions,renewalsandrestructuringsofloanswithinterestreservesareapprovedaftergivingconsiderationtothe

project’sstatus,theborrower’sfinancialcondition,andthecollateralprotectionbasedoncurrentmarketconditions.In

connectionwiththeextension,renewalorrestructuringofaloanwithaninterestreserve,additionalinterestreservesmay

befundedbytheclient,partiallyfundedbytheclientandBB&T,orfullyprovidedbyBB&T.Typically,interestreserves

providedbyBB&Taresecuredbyadditionalcollateralandarelimitedtomoreconservativeadvanceratesonthepledged

collateral.Theseloansmustalsobesupportedbyananalysisoftheclient’swillingnessandcapacitytoservicethedebt.
Interestthathasbeenaddedtothebalanceofaloanthroughtheuseofaninterestreserveisrecognizedasincomeonlyif
thecollectabilityoftheremainingcontractualprincipalandinterestpaymentsisreasonablyassured.Ifaloanwithinterest

reservesisindefaultanddeemeduncollectible,interestisnolongerfundedthroughtheinterestreserve.Interest

previouslyrecognizedfrominterestreservesgenerallyisnotreversedagainstcurrentincomewhenaconstructionloan

withinterestreservesisplacedonnonaccrualstatus.
AtDecember31,2011,approximately$680millionofBB&T’sconstructionloanportfoliohaveactiveinterestreserves
(i.e.,currentfundingofinterestchargesthroughareserve)comparedto$1.2billionatDecember31,2010.Interest

incomerelatedtoloanswithactiveinterestreserveswasapproximately$30millionandrepresentslessthan1%oftotal

interestincomefortheyearendedDecember31,2011.
73DirectRetailLoanPortfolio
ThedirectretailloanportfolioprimarilyconsistsofawidevarietyofloanproductsofferedthroughBB&T’sbranch
network.Varioustypesofsecuredandunsecuredloansaremarketedtoqualifyingexistingclientsandtoother

creditworthycandidatesinBB&T’smarketarea.Thevastmajorityofdirectretailloansaresecuredbyfirstorsecond

liensonresidentialrealestate,andincludebothclosed-endhomeequityloansandrevolvinghomeequitylinesofcredit.

Directretailloansaresubjecttothesamerigorouslendingpoliciesandproceduresasdescribedaboveforcommercial

loansandareunderwrittenwithnoteamountsandcreditlimitsthatensureconsistencywiththeCorporation’srisk

philosophy.SalesFinanceLoanPortfolio
Thesalesfinancecategoryprimarilyincludessecuredindirectinstallmentloanstoconsumersforthepurchaseofnewand
usedautomobiles,boatsandrecreationalvehicles.Suchloansareoriginatedthroughapprovedfranchisedandindependent

dealersthroughouttheBB&Tmarketarea.Theseloansarerelativelyhomogenousandnosingleloanisindividually

significantintermsofitssizeandpotentialriskofloss.Salesfinanceloansaresubjecttothesamerigorouslending

policiesandproceduresasdescribedaboveforcommercialloansandareunderwrittenwithnoteamountsandcreditlimits

thatensureconsistencywiththeCorporation’sriskphilosophy.Inadditiontoitsnormalunderwritingduediligence,

BB&Tusesapplicationsystemsand“scoringsystems”tohelpunderwriteandmanagethecreditriskinitssalesfinance

portfolio.Alsoincludedinthesalesfinancecategoryarecommerciallines,servicedbytheSalesFinanceDepartment,to

financedealerwholesaleinventory(“FloorPlanLines”)forresaletoconsumers.FloorPlanLinesareunderwrittenby

commercialloanofficersincompliancewiththesamerigorouslendingpoliciesdescribedaboveforcommercialloans.In

addition,FloorPlanLinesaresubjecttointensivemonitoringandoversighttoensurequalityandtomitigateriskfrom

fraud.RevolvingCreditLoanPortfolio
TherevolvingcreditportfoliocomprisestheoutstandingbalancesoncreditcardsandBB&T’scheckingaccountoverdraft
protectionproduct,ConstantCredit.BB&Tmarketscreditcardstoitsexistingbankingclientbaseanddoesnotsolicit

cardholdersthroughnationwideprogramsorotherformsofmassmarketing.Suchbalancesaregenerallyunsecuredand

activelymanagedbyBB&TFSB.
ResidentialMortgageLoanPortfolio
BranchBankoffersvarioustypesoffixed-andadjustable-rateloansforthepurposeofconstructing,purchasingor
refinancingresidentialproperties.BB&Tprimarilyoriginatesconformingmortgageloansandhigherqualityjumboand

construction-to-permanentloansforowner-occupiedproperties.Conformingloansareloansthatareunderwrittenin

accordancewiththeunderwritingstandardssetforthbytheFederalNationalMortgageAssociation(“FannieMae”)and

theFederalHomeLoanMortgageCorporation(“FreddieMac”).Theyaregenerallycollateralizedbyone-to-four-family

residentialrealestate,haveloan-to-collateralvalueratiosof80%orless,andaremadetoborrowersingoodcredit

standing.Risksassociatedwiththemortgagelendingfunctionincludeinterestraterisk,whichismitigatedthroughthesaleofa
substantialportionofconformingfixed-rateloansinthesecondarymortgagemarketandaneffectivemortgageservicing

rightshedgingprocess.Borrowerriskislessenedthroughrigorousunderwritingproceduresandmortgageinsurance.The

righttoservicetheloansandreceiveservicingincomeisgenerallyretainedwhenconformingloansaresold.Management

believesthattheretentionofmortgageservicingisaprimaryrelationshipdriverinretailbankingandavitalpartof

management’sstrategytoestablishprofitablelong-termcustomerrelationshipsandofferhighqualityclientservice.

BB&Talsopurchasesresidentialmortgageloansfromcorrespondentoriginators.Theloanspurchasedfromthird-party

originatorsaresubjecttothesameunderwritingandrisk-managementcriteriaasloansoriginatedinternally.
OtherLendingSubsidiariesPortfolio
BB&T’sotherlendingsubsidiariesportfolioconsistsofloansoriginatedthroughsixbusinessunitsthatprovidespecialty
financealternativestoconsumersandbusinessesincluding:dealer-basedfinancingofequipmentforsmallbusinessesand

consumers,commercialequipmentleasingandfinance,directandindirectconsumerfinance,insurancepremiumfinance,
74indirectsubprimeautomobilefinance,andfull-servicecommercialmortgagebanking.BB&Tofferstheseservicestobank
clientsaswellasnonbankclientswithinandoutsideBB&T’sprimarygeographicmarketarea.
BB&T’sotherlendingsubsidiariesadheretothesameoverallunderwritingapproachasthecommercialandconsumer
lendingportfolioandalsoutilizeautomatedcreditscoringtoassistwithunderwritingthecreditrisk.Themajorityofthese

loansarerelativelyhomogenousandnosingleloanisindividuallysignificantintermsofitssizeandpotentialriskofloss.

Themajorityoftheloansaresecuredbyrealestate,automobiles,equipmentorunearnedinsurancepremiums.Asof

December31,2011,includedintheotherlendingsubsidiariesportfolioareloanstosubprimeborrowersofapproximately

$3.3billion,or3.0%ofthetotalBB&Tloanandleaseportfolio.Ofthese,approximately$297millionareresidentialreal

estateloansandareincludedinthedisclosuresinTable25herein.
CoveredLoanPortfolio
InconnectionwiththeFDIC-assistedacquisitionofColonial,BB&Tacquiredapproximately$14.1billionofloansthat
arecoveredbylosssharingagreements.BB&Trecordedtheseloansat$9.6billion,whichrepresentedtheirfairvalueon

theacquisitiondate.Theloanscoveredbylosssharingagreementsareprimarilycommercialrealestateloansand

residentialmortgageloans.RefertoNote3“LoansandLeases”inthe“NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements”in

thisreportforadditionaldisclosuresrelatedtoBB&T’scoveredloans.
Liquidityrisk
Liquidityriskistherisktoongoingoperationsarisingfromtheinabilitytoaccommodateliabilitymaturities,deposit
withdrawals,fundassetgrowth,ormeetcontractualobligationswhentheycomedue.Foradditionalinformation

concerningBB&T’smanagementofliquidityrisk,seethe“Liquidity”sectionof“Management’sDiscussionand

Analysis”herein.
Marketrisk
Marketriskistherisktoearningsorcapitalarisingfromchangesinthemarketvalueofportfolios,securities,orother
financialinstrumentsduetochangesinthelevel,volatility,orcorrelationsamongfinancialmarketratesorprices,

includinginterestrates,foreignexchangerates,equityprices,orotherrelevantratesorprices.Foradditionalinformation

concerningBB&T’smanagementofmarketrisk,seethe“MarketRiskManagement”sectionof“Management’s

DiscussionandAnalysis”herein.
Operationalrisk
Operationalriskistherisktoearningsorcapitalarisingfrominadequateorfailedinternalprocesses,peopleandsystems
orfromexternalevents.Thisdefinitionincludeslegalrisk,whichistheriskoflossarisingfromdefectivetransactions,

litigationorclaimsmade,orthefailuretoadequatelyprotectcompany-ownedassets.
Reputationrisk
Reputationriskistherisktoearnings,capital,enterprisevalue,theBB&Tbrand,andpublicconfidencearisingfrom
negativepublicityorpublicopinion,whetherrealorperceived,regardingBB&T’sbusinesspractices,productsand

services,transactions,orotheractivitiesundertakenbyBB&T,itsrepresentatives,oritspartners.Reputationriskmay

impactBB&T’sclients,employees,communitiesorshareholders,andisoftenaresidualriskthatariseswhenotherrisks

arenotmanagedproperly.
Strategicrisk
Strategicriskistherisktoearnings,capital,enterprisevalue,andtotheachievementofBB&T’sVision,Mission,
Purpose,andbusinessobjectivesthatarisesfromBB&T’sbusinessstrategy,adversebusinessdecisions,improperor

ineffectiveimplementationofdecisions,orlackofresponsivenesstochangesinbusinessenvironment.Strategicriskisa

functionofthecompatibilityofBB&T’sstrategicgoals,thebusinessstrategiesdevelopedtoachievethosegoals,the

resourcesdeployedagainstthesegoals,andthequalityofimplementation.
75RiskGovernance
Themanagementofriskhasalwaysbeenanenterprise-wideinitiativeatBB&T.ItispartofBB&T’smissionstatement
thatriskismanagedtooptimizethelong-termreturntoshareholders,whileprovidingasafeandsoundinvestment.
TheChiefRiskOfficerleadstheRiskManagementOrganization(“RMO”),whichdesigns,organizesandmanagesthe
riskframework.Themanagementofriskbeginsatthebusinesslevelthroughriskidentificationandmanagement

programs.TheRMOisresponsibleforensuringeffectiveriskmanagementoversight,measurement,monitoring,reporting

andconsistencyofcontrols.
MarketRiskManagement
TheeffectivemanagementofmarketriskisessentialtoachievingBB&T’sstrategicfinancialobjectives.Asafinancial
institution,BB&T’smostsignificantmarketriskexposureisinterestrateriskinitsbalancesheet;however,marketrisk

alsoincludesproductliquidityrisk,priceriskandvolatilityriskinBB&T’slinesofbusiness.Theprimaryobjectivesof

marketriskmanagementaretominimizeanyadverseeffectthatchangesinmarketriskfactorsmayhaveonnetinterest

income,andtooffsettheriskofpricechangesforcertainassetsrecordedatfairvalue.
InterestRateMarketRisk(OtherthanTrading)
BB&Tactivelymanagesmarketriskassociatedwithassetandliabilityportfolioswithafocusonthestrategicpricingof
assetandliabilityaccountsandmanagementofappropriatematuritymixesofassetsandliabilities.Thegoalofthese

activitiesisthedevelopmentofappropriatematurityandrepricingopportunitiesinBB&T’sportfoliosofassetsand

liabilitiesthatwillproduceconsistentnetinterestincomeduringperiodsofchanginginterestrates.Theseportfoliosare

analyzedforproperfixed-rateandvariable-ratemixesundervariousinterestratescenarios.
Theasset/liabilitymanagementprocessisdesignedtoachieverelativelystablenetinterestmarginsandassureliquidityby
coordinatingthevolumes,maturitiesorrepricingopportunitiesofearningassets,depositsandborrowedfunds.Among

otherthings,thisprocessgivesconsiderationtoprepaymenttrendsrelatedtosecurities,loansandleasesandcertain

depositsthathavenostatedmaturity.Prepaymentassumptionsaredevelopedusingmarketdataforresidential

mortgage-relatedloansandsecurities,andinternalhistoricalprepaymentexperienceforclientdepositswithnostated

maturityandloansthatarenotresidentialmortgagerelated.Theseassumptionsaresubjecttomonthlyback-testing,and

areadjustedasdeemednecessarytoreflectchangesininterestratesrelativetothereferencerateoftheunderlyingassets

orliabilities.Onamonthlybasis,BB&Tevaluatestheaccuracyofitsinterestrateforecastsimulationmodel,which

includesanevaluationofitsprepaymentassumptions,toensurethatallsignificantassumptionsinherentinthemodel

appropriatelyreflectchangesintheinterestrateenvironmentandrelatedtrendsinprepaymentactivity.Itisthe

responsibilityoftheMarketRiskandLiquidityCommitteetodetermineandachievethemostappropriatevolumeandmix

ofearningassetsandinterest-bearingliabilities,aswellastoensureanadequatelevelofliquidityandcapital,withinthe

contextofcorporateperformancegoals.TheMarketRiskandLiquidityCommitteealsosetspolicyguidelinesand

establisheslong-termstrategieswithrespecttointerestrateriskexposureandliquidity.TheMarketRiskandLiquidity

CommitteemeetsregularlytoreviewBB&T’sinterestrateriskandliquiditypositionsinrelationtopresentand

prospectivemarketandbusinessconditions,andadoptsfundingandbalancesheetmanagementstrategiesthatare

intendedtoensurethatthepotentialimpactonearningsandliquidityasaresultoffluctuationsininterestratesiswithin

acceptablestandards.
BB&Tusesderivativesprimarilytomanageeconomicriskrelatedtosecurities,commercialloans,mortgageservicing
rightsandmortgagebankingoperations,long-termdebtandotherfundingsources.BB&Talsousesderivativesto

facilitatetransactionsonbehalfofitsclients.AsofDecember31,2011,BB&Thadderivativefinancialinstruments

outstandingwithnotionalamountstotaling$67.6billion.Theestimatednetfairvalueofopencontractswasagainof$19

millionatDecember31,2011.SeeNote19“DerivativeFinancialInstruments”inthe“NotestoConsolidatedFinancial

Statements”hereinforadditionaldisclosures.
ThemajorityofBB&T’sassetsandliabilitiesaremonetaryinnatureand,therefore,differgreatlyfrommostcommercial
andindustrialcompaniesthathavesignificantinvestmentsinfixedassetsorinventories.Fluctuationsininterestratesand

actionsoftheFederalReserveBoardtoregulatetheavailabilityandcostofcredithaveagreatereffectonafinancial

institution’sprofitabilitythandotheeffectsofhighercostsforgoodsandservices.Throughitsbalancesheetmanagement

function,whichismonitoredbytheMarketRiskandLiquidityCommittee,managementbelievesthatBB&Tispositioned

torespondtochangingneedsforliquidity,changesininterestratesandinflationarytrends.
76ManagementusesInterestSensitivitySimulationAnalysis(“Simulation”)tomeasurethesensitivityofprojectedearnings
tochangesininterestrates.TheSimulationmodelprojectsnetinterestincomeandinterestrateriskforarollingtwo-year

periodoftime.SimulationtakesintoaccountthecurrentcontractualagreementsthatBB&Thasmadewithitscustomers

ondeposits,borrowings,loans,investmentsandcommitmentstoenterintothosetransactions.Furthermore,the

Simulationconsiderstheimpactofexpectedcustomerbehavior.ManagementmonitorsBB&T’sinterestsensitivityby

meansofamodelthatincorporatesthecurrentvolumes,averageratesearnedandpaid,andscheduledmaturitiesand

paymentsofassetandliabilityportfolios,togetherwithmultiplescenariosofprojectedprepayments,repricing

opportunitiesandanticipatedvolumegrowth.Usingthisinformation,themodelprojectsearningsbasedonprojected

portfoliobalancesundermultipleinterestratescenarios.Thislevelofdetailisneededtosimulatetheeffectthatchanges

ininterestratesandportfoliobalancesmayhaveontheearningsofBB&T.Thismethodissubjecttotheaccuracyofthe

assumptionsthatunderlietheprocess,butmanagementbelievesthatitprovidesabetterillustrationofthesensitivityof

earningstochangesininterestratesthanotheranalysessuchasstaticordynamicgap.InadditiontoSimulationanalysis,

BB&TusesEconomicValueofEquity(“EVE”)analysistofocusonchangesincapitalgivenpotentialchangesininterest

rates.ThismeasurealsoallowsBB&Ttoanalyzeinterestrateriskthatfallsoutsidetheanalysiswindowcontainedinthe

Simulationmodel.TheEVEmodelisadiscountedcashflowoftheentireportfolioofBB&T’sassets,liabilities,and

derivativesinstruments.Thedifferenceinthepresentvalueofassetsminusthepresentvalueofliabilitiesisdefinedasthe

economicvalueofBB&T’sequity.
Theasset/liabilitymanagementprocessrequiresanumberofkeyassumptions.Managementdeterminesthemostlikely
outlookfortheeconomyandinterestratesbyanalyzingexternalfactors,includingpublishedeconomicprojectionsand

data,theeffectsoflikelymonetaryandfiscalpolicies,aswellasanyenactedorprospectiveregulatorychanges.BB&T’s

currentandprospectiveliquidityposition,currentbalancesheetvolumesandprojectedgrowth,accessibilityoffundsfor

short-termneedsandcapitalmaintenancearealsoconsidered.Thisdataiscombinedwithvariousinterestratescenariosto

providemanagementwiththeinformationnecessarytoanalyzeinterestsensitivityandtoaidinthedevelopmentof

strategiestoreachperformancegoals.
Thefollowingtableshowstheeffectthattheindicatedchangesininterestrateswouldhaveonnetinterestincomeas
projectedforthenexttwelvemonthsassumingagradualchangeininterestratesasdescribedbelow.Keyassumptionsin

thepreparationofthetableincludeprepaymentspeedsofmortgage-relatedassets,cashflowsandmaturitiesofderivative

financialinstruments,loanvolumesandpricing,depositsensitivity,customerpreferencesandcapitalplans.Theresulting

changeininterestsensitiveincomereflectsthelevelofsensitivitythatinterestsensitiveincomehasinrelationtochanging

interestrates.
Table30
InterestSensitivitySimulationAnalysis
AnnualizedHypothetical
PercentageChangein
NetInterestIncome
InterestRateScenario
LinearPrimeRate
ChangeinDecember31,
December31,
PrimeRate
20112010201120102.00%5.25%5.25%3.92%4.19%
1.004.254.252.271.97
NoChange3.253.25——
(.25)3.003.00(.55)(.34)
TheMarketRiskandLiquidityCommitteehasestablishedparametersmeasuringinterestsensitivitythatprescribea
maximumnegativeimpactonnetinterestincomeof2%forthenext12monthsforalinearchangeof100basispoints

overfourmonthsfollowedbyaflatinterestratescenariofortheremainingeightmonthperiod,andamaximumnegative

impactof4%foralinearchangeof200basispointsovereightmonthsfollowedbyaflatinterestratescenarioforthe

remainingfourmonthperiod.IntheeventthattheresultsoftheSimulationmodelfalloutsidetheestablishedparameters,

managementwillmakerecommendationstotheMarketRiskandLiquidityCommitteeonthemostappropriateresponse

giventhecurrenteconomicforecast.Managementcurrentlyonlymodeledanegative25basispointdeclinebecauselarger

declineswouldhaveresultedinaFederalfundsrateoflessthanzero.
77ThefollowingtableshowstheeffectthattheindicatedchangesininterestrateswouldhaveonEVE.Keyassumptionsin
thepreparationofthetableincludeprepaymentspeedsofmortgage-relatedassets,cashflowsandmaturitiesofderivative

financialinstruments,loanvolumesandpricing,anddepositsensitivity.Theresultingchangeintheeconomicvalueof

equityreflectsthelevelofsensitivitythatEVEhasinrelationtochanginginterestrates.
Table31
EconomicValueofEquity(“EVE”)SimulationAnalysis
HypotheticalPercentage
ChangeinEVE
Changein
RatesEVE/AssetsDecember31,
December31,
20112010201120102.00%6.2%8.7%19.6%18.8%
1.005.98.113.310.7
NoChange5.27.3——
(.25)4.97.1(4.9)(3.4)
MarketRiskfromTradingActivities
BB&Talsomanagesmarketriskfromtradingactivitieswhichconsistsofactingasafinancialintermediarytoprovideits
customersaccesstoderivatives,foreignexchangeandsecuritiesmarkets.Tradingmarketriskismanagedthroughtheuse

ofstatisticalandnon-statisticalriskmeasuresandlimits,withoverallestablishedlimits.BB&Tutilizesahistorical

value-at-risk(“VaR”)methodologytomeasureandaggregaterisksacrossitscoveredtradinglinesofbusiness.This

methodologyusesoneyearofhistoricaldatatoestimateeconomicoutcomesforaone-daytimehorizonata99%

confidencelevel.
TheaverageVaRfortheyearendedDecember31,2011wasapproximately$1million.ThemaximumdailyVaRwas
approximately$3million,andthelowdailyVaRwaslessthan$1millionduringthesameperiod.
LiquidityLiquidityrepresentsBB&T’scontinuingabilitytomeetfundingneeds,primarilydepositwithdrawals,timelyrepayment
ofborrowingsandotherliabilities,andfundingofloancommitments.Inadditiontothelevelofliquidassets,suchas

cash,cashequivalentsandsecuritiesavailableforsale,manyotherfactorsaffecttheabilitytomeetliquidityneeds,

includingaccesstoavarietyoffundingsources,maintainingborrowingcapacityinnationalmoneymarkets,growingcore

deposits,therepaymentofloansandthecapabilitytosecuritizeorpackageloansforsale.
ThepurposeoftheParentCompanyistoserveasthecapitalfinancingvehiclefortheoperatingsubsidiaries.Theassetsof
theParentCompanyconsistprimarilyofcashondepositwithBranchBank,equityinvestmentsinsubsidiaries,advances

tosubsidiaries,accountsreceivablefromsubsidiaries,andothermiscellaneousassets.Theprincipalobligationsofthe

ParentCompanyareprincipalandinterestonmasternotes,long-termdebt,andredeemablecapitalsecurities.Themain

sourcesoffundsfortheParentCompanyaredividendsandmanagementfeesfromsubsidiaries,repaymentsofadvances

tosubsidiaries,andproceedsfromtheissuanceoflong-termdebtandmasternotes.Theprimaryusesoffundsbythe

ParentCompanyareforinvestmentsinsubsidiaries,advancestosubsidiaries,dividendpaymentstoshareholders,

retirementofcommonstockandinterestandprincipalpaymentsdueonlong-termdebtandmasternotes.
TheprimarysourceoffundsusedforParentCompanycashrequirementswasdividendsreceivedfromsubsidiaries,which
totaled$903millionduring2011.Inaddition,theParentCompanyissued$2.0billionofseniornotesduring2011and

repaid$861millionofmaturinglong-termdebt.Fundsraisedthroughmasternoteagreementswithcommercialclientsare

placedinanotereceivableatBranchBankprimarilyforitsuseinmeetingshort-termfundingneedsand,toalesser

extent,tosupporttheshort-termtemporarycashneedsoftheParentCompany.AtDecember31,2011and2010,master

notebalancestotaled$296millionand$806million,respectively.
TheParentCompanyhadeightissuesofseniornotesoutstandingtotaling$5.0billionandfourissuesofsubordinated
notesoutstandingtotaling$2.4billionatDecember31,2011.Inaddition,asofDecember31,2011,theParentCompany

had$3.3billionofjuniorsubordinateddebenturesoutstandingtounconsolidatedtrusts.Managementhasannounced
78intentionstoretirethejuniorsubordinateddebenturesduring2012andtocompletetheprocessbytheendof2013.Refer
toNote10“Long-TermDebt”inthe“NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements”foradditionalinformationwithrespect

totheseseniornotes,subordinatednotesandjuniorsubordinateddebentures.
BranchBankhasseveralmajorsourcesoffundingtomeetitsliquidityrequirements,includingaccesstocapitalmarkets
throughissuanceofseniororsubordinatedbanknotesandinstitutionalcertificatesofdeposit,accesstotheFHLBsystem,

dealerrepurchaseagreementsandrepurchaseagreementswithcommercialclients,accesstotheovernightandterm

Federalfundsmarkets,useofaCaymanbranchfacility,accesstoretailbrokeredcertificatesofdepositandaborrowerin

custodyprogramwiththeFederalReserveBankforthediscountwindow.AsofDecember31,2011,BB&Thas

approximately$43billionofsecuredborrowingcapacity,whichrepresentsapproximately436%ofoneyearwholesale

fundingmaturities.
BB&TCorporation’sandBranchBank’sabilitytoraisefundingatcompetitivepricesisaffectedbytheratingagencies’
viewsofBB&TCorporation’sandBranchBank’screditquality,liquidity,capitalandearnings.Managementmeetswith

theratingagenciesonaroutinebasistodiscussthecurrentoutlookforBB&TCorporationandBranchBank.Theratings

forBB&TCorporationandBranchBankbythefourmajorratingagenciesaredetailedinthetablebelow.
Table32
CreditRatingsofBB&TCorporationandBranchBank
December31,2011
S&PMoody’sFitchDBRSBB&TCorporation:
CommercialPaperA-2P-1F1R-1(low)

IssuerA-A2A+A(high)

LT/SeniordebtA-A2A+A(high)

SubordinateddebtBBB+A3AA

SubordinatedshelfshorttermA-2N/AF1N/A
BranchBank:
BankfinancialstrengthN/AB-a+N/A

LongtermdepositsAA1AA-AA(low)

LT/SeniorunsecuredbanknotesAA1A+AA(low)

OtherlongtermseniorobligationsAA1A+AA(low)

OthershorttermseniorobligationsA-1P-1F1R-1(middle)

ShorttermbanknotesA-1P-1F1R-1(middle)

ShorttermdepositsA-1P-1F1+R-1(middle)

SubordinatedbanknotesA-A2AA(high)
RatingsOutlook:
CreditTrendStableStableStableStable
BB&T,BranchBankandBB&TFSBhaveContingencyFundingPlans(“CFPs”)designedtoensurethatliquiditysources
aresufficienttomeettheirongoingobligationsandcommitments,particularlyintheeventofaliquiditycontraction.The

CFPsaredesignedtoexamineandquantifytheorganization’sliquidityundervarious“stress”scenarios.Additionally,the

CFPsprovideaframeworkformanagementandothercriticalpersonneltofollowintheeventofaliquiditycontractionor

inanticipationofsuchanevent.TheCFPsaddressauthorityforactivationanddecisionmaking,liquidityoptionsandthe

responsibilitiesofkeydepartmentsintheeventofaliquiditycontraction.
ManagementbelievescurrentsourcesofliquidityareadequatetomeetBB&T’scurrentrequirementsandplansfor
continuedgrowth.SeeNote5“PremisesandEquipment,”Note10“Long-TermDebt”andNote15“Commitmentsand

Contingencies”inthe“NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements”foradditionalinformationregardingoutstanding

balancesofsourcesofliquidityandcontractualcommitmentsandobligations.
79ContractualObligations,Commitments,ContingentLiabilities,Off-BalanceSheetArrangements,AndRelatedParty
TransactionsThefollowingtablepresents,asofDecember31,2011,BB&T’ssignificantfixedanddeterminablecontractual
obligationsbypaymentdate.Thepaymentamountsrepresentthoseamountscontractuallyduetotherecipient.Thetable

excludesliabilitiesrecordedwheremanagementcannotreasonablyestimatethetimingofanypaymentsthatmaybe

requiredinconnectionwiththeseliabilities.FurtherdiscussionofthenatureofeachobligationisincludedinNote15

“CommitmentsandContingencies”inthe“NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements.”
Table33
ContractualObligationsandOtherCommitments
December31,2011
TotalLessthan
OneYear
1to3
Years3to5
YearsAfter5
Years(Dollarsinmillions)
ContractualCashObligations:
Long-termdebt$21,803$1,522$3,680$5,199$11,402

Operatingleases1,418184328262644

Commitmentstofundaffordablehousing
investments394183195142
Venturecapitalcommitments(1)129307821—

Timedeposits33,89921,5648,8853,450—
Totalcontractualcashobligations$57,643$23,483$13,166$8,946$12,048
(1)Maturitiesarebasedonestimatedpaymentdates.
BB&T’ssignificantcommitmentsincludecertaininvestmentsinaffordablehousingandhistoricbuildingrehabilitation
projectsthroughoutitsmarketarea.BB&Tentersintosucharrangementsasameansofsupportinglocalcommunitiesand

recognizestaxcreditsrelatingtotheseinvestments.AtDecember31,2011,BB&T’sinvestmentsinsuchprojectstotaled

$1.2billion,whichincludesoutstandingcommitmentsof$394million.BB&Ttypicallyactsasalimitedpartnerinthese

investmentsanddoesnotexertcontrolovertheoperatingorfinancialpoliciesofthepartnerships.BranchBanktypically

providesfinancingduringtheconstructionanddevelopmentoftheproperties;however,permanentfinancingisgenerally

obtainedfromindependentthirdpartiesuponcompletionofaproject.AsofDecember31,2011,BB&Thad$178million

inloancommitmentsoutstandingrelatedtotheseprojects,ofwhich$76millionhadbeenfunded.BB&T’sriskexposure

relatingtosuchcommitmentsisgenerallylimitedtotheamountofinvestmentsandloancommitmentsmade.Referto

Note1“SummaryofSignificantAccountingPolicies”inthe“NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements”forfurther

discussionoftheseinvestmentsinlimitedpartnerships.
Inaddition,BB&Tentersintoderivativecontractstomanagevariousfinancialrisks.Aderivativeisafinancialinstrument
thatderivesitscashflows,andthereforeitsvalue,byreferencetoanunderlyinginstrument,indexorreferencedinterest

rate.DerivativecontractsarecarriedatfairvalueontheConsolidatedBalanceSheetswiththefairvaluerepresentingthe

netpresentvalueofexpectedfuturecashreceiptsorpaymentsbasedonmarketinterestratesasofthebalancesheetdate.

Derivativecontractsarewritteninamountsreferredtoasnotionalamounts,whichonlyprovidethebasisforcalculating

paymentsbetweencounterpartiesandarenotameasureoffinancialrisk.Therefore,thederivativeliabilitiesrecordedon

thebalancesheetasofDecember31,2011donotrepresenttheamountsthatmayultimatelybepaidunderthesecontracts.

FurtherdiscussionofderivativeinstrumentsisincludedinNote1“SummaryofSignificantAccountingPolicies”and

Note19“DerivativeFinancialInstruments”inthe“NotestoConsolidatedFinancialStatements.”
Intheordinarycourseofbusiness,BB&Tindemnifiesitsofficersanddirectorstothefullestextentpermittedbylaw
againstliabilitiesarisingfromlitigation.BB&Talsoissuesstandardrepresentationandwarrantiesinunderwriting

agreements,mergerandacquisitionagreements,loansales,brokerageactivitiesandothersimilararrangements.

CounterpartiesinmanyoftheseindemnificationsprovidesimilarindemnificationstoBB&T.Althoughtheseagreements

oftendonotspecifylimitations,BB&Tdoesnotbelievethatanypaymentsrelatedtotheseguaranteeswouldmaterially

changethefinancialconditionorresultsofoperationsofBB&T.
80BB&Tholdspublicfundsincertainstatesthatdonotrequire100%collateralizationonpublicfundbankdeposits.In
thesestates,shouldthefailureofanotherpublicfunddepositoryinstitutionresultinalossforthepublicentity,the

resultingshortfallwouldhavetobeabsorbedonapro-ratabasisbytheremainingfinancialinstitutionsholdingpublic

fundsinthatstate.
BB&Thasinvestmentsandfuturefundingcommitmentstocertainventurecapitalfunds.AsofDecember31,2011,
BB&Thadinvestmentsof$261millionrelatedtotheseventuresandfuturefundingcommitmentsof$129million.

BB&T’sriskexposurerelatingtosuchcommitmentsisgenerallylimitedtotheamountofinvestmentsandfuturefunding

commitmentsmade.
Mergerandacquisitionagreementsofbusinessesotherthanfinancialinstitutionsoccasionallyincludeadditional
incentivestotheacquiredentitiestooffsetthelossoffuturecashflowspreviouslyreceivedthroughownershippositions.

Typically,theseincentivesarebasedontheacquiredentity’scontributiontoBB&T’searningscomparedtoagreed-upon

amounts.Whenoffered,theseincentivesaretypicallyissuedfortermsofthreetofiveyears.Ascertainprovisionsofthese

agreementsdonotspecifydollarlimitations,itisnotpossibletoquantifythemaximumexposureresultingfromthese

agreements.However,basedonrecentpayoutsandcurrentprojections,anypaymentsmadeinrelationtothese

agreementsarenotexpectedtobematerialtoBB&T’sresultsofoperations,financialpositionorcashflows.
AsamemberoftheFederalHomeLoanBankofAtlanta(“FHLB”),BB&Tisrequiredtomaintainaminimuminvestment
incapitalstock.TheboardofdirectorsoftheFHLBcanincreasetheminimuminvestmentrequirementsintheeventithas

concludedthatadditionalcapitalisrequiredtoallowittomeetitsownregulatorycapitalrequirements.Anyincreasein

theminimuminvestmentrequirementsoutsideofspecifiedrangesrequirestheapprovaloftheFederalHousingFinance

Agency.BecausetheextentofanyobligationtoincreaseBB&T’sinvestmentintheFHLBdependsentirelyuponthe

occurrenceofafutureevent,potentialfuturepaymentstotheFHLBarenotdeterminable.
Inthenormalcourseofbusiness,BB&Tisalsoapartytofinancialinstrumentstomeetthefinancingneedsofclientsand
tomitigateexposuretointerestraterisk.Suchfinancialinstrumentsincludecommitmentstoextendcreditandcertain

contractualagreements,includingstandbylettersofcreditandfinancialguaranteearrangements.Furtherdiscussionof

thesecommitmentsisincludedinNote15“CommitmentsandContingencies”inthe“NotestoConsolidatedFinancial

Statements.”BB&T’ssignificantcommitmentsandobligationsaresummarizedintheaccompanyingtable.Notallofthecommitments
presentedinthetablewillbeused,thustheactualcashrequirementsarelikelytobesignificantlylessthantheamounts

reported.Table34
SummaryofSignificantCommitments
December31,2011
(Dollarsinmillions)
Linesofcredit
$14,991
Lettersofcreditandfinancialguaranteeswritten6,095

Othercommitments(1)
25,258Totalsignificantcommitments$46,344
(1)Othercommitmentsincludeunfundedbusinessloancommitments,unfundedoverdraftprotectionondemanddeposit
accountsandotherunfundedcommitmentstolend.
RelatedPartyTransactions
TheCorporationmayextendcredittocertainofficersanddirectorsintheordinarycourseofbusiness.Theseloansare
madeundersubstantiallythesametermsascomparablethird-partylendingarrangementsandareincompliancewith

applicablebankingregulations.
81CapitalThemaintenanceofappropriatelevelsofcapitalisamanagementpriorityandismonitoredonaregularbasis.BB&T’s
principalgoalsrelatedtothemaintenanceofcapitalaretoprovideadequatecapitaltosupportBB&T’scomprehensive

riskprofile,preserveasufficientcapitalbasefromwhichtosupportfuturegrowth,provideacompetitivereturnto

shareholders,complywithregulatorystandardsandachieveoptimalcreditratingsforBB&Tanditssubsidiaries.
ManagementregularlymonitorsthecapitalpositionofBB&Tonaconsolidatedbasis.Inthisregard,management’s
overridingpolicyistomaintaincapitalatlevelsthatwillresultinBB&Tbeingclassifiedas“well-capitalized”for

regulatorypurposesandtomaintainsufficientcapitalrelativetotheCorporation’slevelofrisk.Secondarily,itis

management’sintenttomaintainconsolidatedcapitallevelsthatresultinregulatoryrisk-basedcapitalratiosthatare

generallycomparablewithBB&T’speersofsimilarsize,complexityandriskprofile.Managementmonitorsandintends

tomaintainthefollowingminimumcapitalratios:
Table35
BB&T’sInternalCapitalGuidelines
Tier1CapitalRatio8.50%
TotalCapitalRatio11.50%

Tier1LeverageCapitalRatio6.50%

TangibleCapitalRatio5.50%

Tier1CommonEquityRatio7.00%
PaymentsofcashdividendstoBB&T’sshareholdersandrepurchasesofcommonsharesarethemethodsusedtomanage
anyexcesscapitalgenerated.Inaddition,managementcloselymonitorstheParentCompany’sdoubleleverageratio

(investmentsinsubsidiariesasapercentageofshareholders’equity)withtheintentionofmaintainingtheratiobelow

125.0%.Theactivemanagementofthesubsidiaries’equitycapital,asdescribedabove,istheprocessusedtomanagethis

importantdriverofParentCompanyliquidityandisakeyelementinthemanagementofBB&T’scapitalposition.
ThecapitalofBB&T’ssubsidiariesisregularlymonitoredtodetermineifthelevelsthatmanagementbelievesarethe
mostbeneficialandefficientfortheiroperationsaremaintained.ManagementintendstomaintaincapitalatBranchBank

andBB&TFSBatlevelsthatwillresultinthesesubsidiariesbeingclassifiedas“well-capitalized”forregulatory

purposes.Secondarily,itismanagement’sintenttomaintainBranchBank’scapitalatlevelsthatresultinregulatoryrisk-

basedcapitalratiosthataregenerallycomparablewithpeersofsimilarsize,complexityandriskprofile.Ifthecapital

levelsofBranchBankincreaseabovetheseguidelines,excesscapitalmaybetransferredtotheParentCompany,subject

toregulatoryandotheroperatingconsiderations,intheformofspecialdividendpayments.
WhilenonrecurringeventsormanagementdecisionsmayresultintheCorporationtemporarilyfallingbelowitsminimum
guidelinesforoneormoreoftheseratios,itismanagement’sintentthroughcapitalplanningtoreturntothesetargeted

minimumswithinareasonableperiodoftime.Suchtemporarydecreasesbelowtheseminimumsarenotconsideredan

infringementofBB&T’soverallcapitalpolicyprovidedtheCorporationandBranchBankremain“well-capitalized.”
BB&T’sTier1commonequityratiowas9.7%atDecember31,2011comparedto9.1%attheendof2010.The
improvementinthisratiowasduetostrongcapitalgeneration.Inaddition,assetgrowthduring2011wasinlowerrisk-

weightedsecurities.AsofDecember31,2011,BB&T’sTier1commonequityratioundertheproposedBaselIIIcapital

standardswasestimatedtobe8.8%.
BB&Tregularlyperformsstresstestingonitscapitallevelsandisrequiredtoperiodicallysubmitthecompany’scapital
planstothebankingregulators.Management’scapitaldeploymentplaninorderofpreferenceistofocusonorganic

growth,dividends,strategicopportunitiesandsharerepurchases.
Aspreviouslymentioned,managementannounceditsintentionstoretireitstrustpreferredsecuritiesduring2012and
completetheprocessbytheendof2013.
BB&T’sregulatoryandtangiblecapitalratiosforDecember31,2011and2010aresetforthinTable36.InSeptember
2010,theBaselCommitteeonBankingSupervisionproposednewregulatorycapitalrequirements(commonlyreferredto

as“BaselIII”)inanefforttostrengthenthefinancialservicesindustry.ItisanticipatedthatU.S.regulatorswilladoptnew
82regulatorycapitalrequirementssimilartothosedefinedinBaselIII.TheprimaryimpactstoBB&Toftheproposed
measurearethedeductionofnetpensionassetsfromTier1capitalandtheeliminationoftheothercomprehensiveincome

adjustmentsforavailable-for-salesecuritiesandpensionandpostretirementobligations.Inaddition,theproposed

requirementsresultinadjustmentstoTier1commonequityandrisk-weightedassetsformortgageservicingrights,

deferredtaxassetsandunconsolidatedinvestments.RefertoTable37forareconciliationofhowBB&Tcalculatesthe

Tier1commonequityratioundertheproposedBaselIIIcapitalguidelines.
Table36
CapitalRatios
December31,
20112010(Dollarsinmillions,exceptpersharedata)
Risk-based:Tier112.5%11.8%

Total15.715.5
Leveragecapital9.09.1
Non-GAAPcapitalmeasures(1):
Tangiblecommonequityasapercentageoftangibleassets6.97.1

Tier1commonequityasapercentageofrisk-weightedassets9.79.1
CalculationsofTier1commonequityandtangibleassetsandrelatedmeasures:
Tier1equity$14,913$13,959

Less:Qualifyingrestrictedcorecapitalelements3,2503,248
Tier1commonequity$11,663$10,711
Totalassets
$174,579$157,081
Less:Intangibleassets,netofdeferredtaxes6,4066,391
Plus:Regulatoryadjustments,netofdeferredtaxes421636
Tangibleassets$168,594$151,326
Totalrisk-weightedassets(2)
$119,725$118,131
Tangiblecommonequityasapercentageoftangibleassets6.9%7.1%
Tier1commonequityasapercentageofrisk-weightedassets9.79.1

Tier1commonequity$11,663$10,711

Outstandingsharesatendofperiod(inthousands)697,143694,381

Tangiblebookvaluepercommonshare$16.73$15.43
(1)TangiblecommonequityandTier1commonequityratiosarenon-GAAPmeasures.BB&TusestheTier1common
equitydefinitionusedintheSCAPassessmenttocalculatetheseratios.BB&T’smanagementusesthesemeasuresto

assessthequalityofcapitalandbelievesthatinvestorsmayfindthemusefulintheiranalysisoftheCorporation.

Thesecapitalmeasuresarenotnecessarilycomparabletosimilarcapitalmeasuresthatmaybepresentedbyother

companies.(2)Risk-weightedassetsaredeterminedbasedonregulatorycapitalrequirements.
83Table37
EstimatedBaselIIICapitalRatios(1)
December31,
2011(Dollarsinmillions)
Tier1commonequityunderBaselIdefinition$11,663
Adjustments:OthercomprehensiveincomerelatedtoAFSsecurities,definedbenefit
pensionandotherpostretirementemployeebenefitplans(553)
Deductionfornetdefinedbenefitpensionasset(423)

Otheradjustments57
EstimatedTier1commonequityunderBaselIIIdefinition$10,744
Estimatedrisk-weightedassetsunderBaselIIIdefinition$122,600

EstimatedTier1commonequityasapercentageofrisk-weightedassetsunder
BaselIIIdefinition
8.8%
(1)TheBaselIIIcalculationsarenon-GAAPmeasuresandreflectadjustmentsfortherelatedelementsasproposedby
regulatoryauthorities,whicharesubjecttochange.BB&Tmanagementusesthesemeasurestoassessthequalityof

capitalandbelievesthatinvestorsmayfindthemusefulintheiranalysisoftheCorporation.Thesecapitalmeasures

arenotnecessarilycomparabletosimilarcapitalmeasuresthatmaybepresentedbyothercompanies.
FourthQuarterResults
Consolidatednetincomeavailabletocommonshareholdersforthefourthquarterof2011of$391millionwasup88.0%
comparedto$208millionearnedduringthesameperiodin2010.Onadilutedpercommonsharebasis,earningsforthe

fourthquarterof2011were$0.55,up83.3%comparedto$0.30forthesameperiodin2010.BB&T’sresultsof

operationsforthefourthquarterof2011producedanannualizedreturnonaverageassetsof0.93%andanannualized

returnonaveragecommonshareholders’equityof8.76%comparedtoprioryearratiosof0.54%and4.88%,respectively.
Totalrevenueswere$2.4billionforthefourthquarterof2011,up$78millioncomparedtothefourthquarterof2010.
Theincreaseintotalrevenueswasprimarilydueto$120millionofhighernetinterestincome,primarilydrivenbylower

borrowinganddepositcosts.Thenetinterestmarginwas4.02%,down2basispointscomparedtothefourthquarterof

2010.Noninterestincomedecreased$42million.Thedecreaseinnoninterestincomewaslargelyattributabletoa

decreaseof$46millionforFDIClossshareincomeduetotheloweroffsetrelatedtotheprovisionforcoveredloansand

theimpactofcashflowreassessments.Inaddition,checkcardfeesdecreased$31millionprimarilyduetothe

implementationoftheDurbinamendment,andinvestmentbankingandbrokeragefeesdecreased$22millionduetoa

reductioninactivity.Thesedecreaseswerepartiallyoffsetby$51millionoffewerlossesandwritedownsonthe

commercialloansheldforsaleinconnectionwithmanagement’snonperformingloandispositionstrategy.
Noninterestexpenseswere$1.6billionforthefourthquarterof2011,up$197millioncomparedtothefourthquarterof
2010.Theincreaseinnoninterestexpenseswasprimarilyduetoa$184millionincreaseinforeclosedpropertyexpenses

asmanagementaccelerateditsstrategytoreducetheinventoryofforeclosedproperty.
Theprovisionforcreditlosses,excludingcoveredloans,forthefourthquarterof2011declined$320million,or58.9%,
comparedtothefourthquarterof2010,asimprovingcreditqualityresultedinlowerprovisionexpense.Theprovisionfor

coveredloansdecreased$51million,whichwasoffsetbyacorresponding$41milliondecreaseinFDIClossshare

income.Netcharge-offs,excludingcoveredloans,forthefourthquarterof2011were$158millionlessthanthefourth

quarterof2010.Thelevelofnonperformingassets,loandelinquenciesandtheoutlookforfuturecreditlossesimproved

significantlyduring2011.
An$84millionprovisionforincometaxeswasrecordedforthefourthquarterof2011comparedto$15millionforthe
fourthquarterof2010.Thisresultedinaneffectivetaxrateforthefourthquarterof2011of17.4%comparedto6.5%for

theprioryear’sfourthquarter.Theincreaseintheeffectivetaxratewasprimarilyduetohigherlevelsofpre-taxearnings

in2011comparedto2010.
84Theaccompanyingtable,“QuarterlyFinancialSummary—Unaudited,”presentscondensedinformationrelatingto
quarterlyperiodsintheyearsendedDecember31,2011and2010.
Table38
QuarterlyFinancialSummary—Unaudited
20112010FourthQuarterThirdQuarterSecondQuarterFirstQuarterFourthQuarterThirdQuarterSecondQuarterFirstQuarter(Dollarsinmillions,exceptpersharedata)
ConsolidatedSummaryof
Operations:Interestincome$1,769$1,750$1,690$1,676$1,755$1,762$1,819$1,779

Interestexpense317334336391423448459465

Provisionforcreditlosses272250328340643770650575

Securitiesgains(losses),net103(39)(2)—99239219(3)

Othernoninterestincome819729789714865871820847

Noninterestexpense1,6181,4171,3951,3721,4211,4081,5001,341

Provisionforincometaxes8468915315272548
Netincome400371327234217219224194
Noncontrollinginterest952
0999146
Netincomeavailableto
commonshareholders$391$366$307$225$208$210$210$188
Basicearningspercommon
share$0.56$0.52$0.44$0.32$0.30$0.30$0.30$0.27
Dilutedearningspercommon
share$0.55$0.52$0.44$0.32$0.30$0.30$0.30$0.27
SelectedAverageBalances:
Assets$171,496$165,520$157,730$156,931$159,464$155,666$159,786$163,807

Securities,atamortizedcost35,86731,56727,06025,05925,98823,27728,30932,989

Loansandleases(1)108,523105,658104,341105,294105,946104,755103,964104,468

Totalearningassets147,364141,259134,235133,331134,929130,983135,374140,138

Deposits121,925115,056106,466105,614105,592103,505107,060111,031

Federalfundspurchased,
securitiessoldunder

repurchaseagreementsand

short-termdebt3,7274,3075,4867,2869,4467,3559,10510,207
Long-termdebt21,68922,34723,11421,87921,89021,83321,66021,221

Totalinterest-bearing
liabilities122,125118,340112,915113,789115,901112,594118,479123,995
Shareholders’equity17,75517,55117,07216,67316,95117,03516,92516,627
(1)Loansandleasesarenetofunearnedincomeandincludeloansheldforsale.
85ITEM9A.CONTROLSANDPROCEDURES
Management’sReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReportingandEvaluationofDisclosureControlsand
ProceduresManagementofBB&Tisresponsibleforestablishingandmaintainingadequateinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting
asdefinedinRule13a-15(f)oftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934asamended(theExchangeAct).TheCorporation’s

internalcontroloverfinancialreportingisaprocessdesignedtoprovidereasonableassuranceregardingthereliabilityof

financialreportingandthepreparationoffinancialstatementsforexternalpurposesinaccordancewithaccounting

principlesgenerallyacceptedintheUnitedStatesofAmerica.BB&T’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingincludes

thosepoliciesandproceduresthat(1)pertaintothemaintenanceofrecords,thatinreasonabledetail,accuratelyandfairly

reflectthetransactionsanddispositionoftheCorporation’sassets;(2)providereasonableassurancethattransactionsare

recordedasnecessarytopermitthepreparationofthefinancialstatementsinaccordancewithgenerallyaccepted

accountingprinciplesandthatreceiptsandexpendituresoftheCorporationarebeingmadeonlyinaccordancewiththe

authorizationsofBB&T’smanagementanddirectors;and(3)providereasonableassuranceregardingpreventionortimely

detectionofunauthorizedacquisition,useordispositionoftheCorporation’sassetsthatcouldhaveamaterialimpacton

thefinancialstatements.
Becauseofitsinherentlimitations,internalcontroloverfinancialreportingmaynotpreventordetectmisstatements.Also,
projectionsofanyevaluationofeffectivenesstofutureperiodsaresubjecttotheriskthatcontrolsmaybecomeinadequate

duetochangesinconditions,orthatthedegreeofcompliancewiththepoliciesandproceduresmaydeteriorate.
Underthesupervisionandwiththeparticipationofmanagement,includingtheChiefExecutiveOfficerandtheChief
FinancialOfficer,theCorporationconductedanevaluationoftheeffectivenessoftheinternalcontroloverfinancial

reportingbasedontheframeworkin“InternalControl—IntegratedFramework”promulgatedbytheCommitteeof

SponsoringOrganizationsoftheTreadwayCommission,commonlyreferredtoasthe“COSO”criteria.Basedonthis

evaluationunderthe“COSO”criteria,managementconcludedthattheinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingwas

effectiveasofDecember31,2011.
Asoftheendoftheperiodcoveredbythisreport,themanagementoftheCorporation,underthesupervisionandwiththe
participationoftheCorporation’sChiefExecutiveOfficerandChiefFinancialOfficer,carriedoutanevaluationofthe

Corporation’sdisclosurecontrolsandproceduresasdefinedinRule13a-15(e)oftheExchangeAct.Basedonthat

evaluation,theChiefExecutiveOfficerandChiefFinancialOfficerconcludedthattheCorporation’sdisclosurecontrols

andproceduresareeffective.
TherewasnochangeintheCorporation’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingthatoccurredduringthefourthquarter
of2011thathasmateriallyaffectedorislikelytomateriallyaffect,theCorporation’sinternalcontroloverfinancial

reporting.Theeffectivenessoftheinternalcontrolstructureoverfinancialreporting,asofDecember31,2011,hasbeenauditedby
PricewaterhouseCoopersLLP,anindependentregisteredpublicaccountingfirm,asstatedintheiraccompanyingreport,

whichexpressesanunqualifiedopinionontheeffectivenessoftheCorporation’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting

asofDecember31,2011.
86ITEM8.FINANCIALSTATEMENTSANDSUPPLEMENTARYDATA
ReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm
TotheBoardofDirectorsandShareholdersofBB&TCorporation:
Inouropinion,theaccompanyingconsolidatedbalancesheetsandtherelatedconsolidatedstatementsofincome,changes
inshareholders’equityandcashflowspresentfairly,inallmaterialrespects,thefinancialpositionofBB&TCorporation

anditssubsidiariesatDecember31,2011and2010,andtheresultsoftheiroperationsandtheircashflowsforeachofthe

threeyearsintheperiodendedDecember31,2011inconformitywithaccountingprinciplesgenerallyacceptedinthe

UnitedStatesofAmerica.Alsoinouropinion,theCompanymaintained,inallmaterialrespects,effectiveinternalcontrol

overfinancialreportingasofDecember31,2011,basedoncriteriaestablishedinInternalControl—Integrated

FrameworkissuedbytheCommitteeofSponsoringOrganizationsoftheTreadwayCommission(COSO).TheCompany’s

managementisresponsibleforthesefinancialstatements,formaintainingeffectiveinternalcontroloverfinancial

reportingandforitsassessmentoftheeffectivenessofinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting,includedinthe

accompanyingManagement’sReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReporting.Ourresponsibilityistoexpress

opinionsonthesefinancialstatementsandontheCompany’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingbasedonour

integratedaudits.WeconductedourauditsinaccordancewiththestandardsofthePublicCompanyAccountingOversight

Board(UnitedStates).Thosestandardsrequirethatweplanandperformtheauditstoobtainreasonableassuranceabout

whetherthefinancialstatementsarefreeofmaterialmisstatementandwhethereffectiveinternalcontroloverfinancial

reportingwasmaintainedinallmaterialrespects.Ourauditsofthefinancialstatementsincludedexamining,onatest

basis,evidencesupportingtheamountsanddisclosuresinthefinancialstatements,assessingtheaccountingprinciples

usedandsignificantestimatesmadebymanagement,andevaluatingtheoverallfinancialstatementpresentation.Our

auditofinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingincludedobtaininganunderstandingofinternalcontroloverfinancial

reporting,assessingtheriskthatamaterialweaknessexists,andtestingandevaluatingthedesignandoperating

effectivenessofinternalcontrolbasedontheassessedrisk.Ourauditsalsoincludedperformingsuchotherproceduresas

weconsiderednecessaryinthecircumstances.Webelievethatourauditsprovideareasonablebasisforouropinions.
Acompany’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingisaprocessdesignedtoprovidereasonableassuranceregardingthe
reliabilityoffinancialreportingandthepreparationoffinancialstatementsforexternalpurposesinaccordancewith

generallyacceptedaccountingprinciples.Acompany’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingincludesthosepolicies

andproceduresthat(i)pertaintothemaintenanceofrecordsthat,inreasonabledetail,accuratelyandfairlyreflectthe

transactionsanddispositionsoftheassetsofthecompany;(ii)providereasonableassurancethattransactionsarerecorded

asnecessarytopermitpreparationoffinancialstatementsinaccordancewithgenerallyacceptedaccountingprinciples,

andthatreceiptsandexpendituresofthecompanyarebeingmadeonlyinaccordancewithauthorizationsofmanagement

anddirectorsofthecompany;and(iii)providereasonableassuranceregardingpreventionortimelydetectionof

unauthorizedacquisition,use,ordispositionofthecompany’sassetsthatcouldhaveamaterialeffectonthefinancial

statements.Becauseofitsinherentlimitations,internalcontroloverfinancialreportingmaynotpreventordetectmisstatements.Also,
projectionsofanyevaluationofeffectivenesstofutureperiodsaresubjecttotheriskthatcontrolsmaybecomeinadequate

becauseofchangesinconditions,orthatthedegreeofcompliancewiththepoliciesorproceduresmaydeteriorate.
/s/PricewaterhouseCoopersLLP

Charlotte,NorthCarolina

February27,2012
87BB&TCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATEDBALANCESHEETS
December31,2011and2010
(Dollarsinmillions,exceptpersharedata,sharesinthousands)
20112010AssetsCashandduefrombanks$1,562$1,127

Interest-bearingdepositswithbanks2,646931

Federalfundssoldandsecuritiespurchasedunderresaleagreementsorsimilar
arrangements136327
Segregatedcashduefrombanks20309

Tradingsecuritiesatfairvalue534633

Securitiesavailableforsaleatfairvalue($1,577and$1,539coveredbyFDICloss
shareatDecember31,2011andDecember31,2010,respectively)22,31323,169
Securitiesheldtomaturity(fairvalueof$14,098atDecember31,2011)14,094—

Loansheldforsale($3,736and$3,176atfairvalueatDecember31,2011and
December31,2010,respectively)3,7363,697
Loansandleases($4,867and$6,194coveredbyFDIClossshareatDecember31,
2011andDecember31,2010,respectively)107,469103,567
Allowanceforloanandleaselosses(2,256)(2,708)
Loansandleases,netofallowanceforloanandleaselosses105,213100,859
FDIClosssharereceivable1,1001,922

Premisesandequipment1,8551,840

Goodwill6,0786,008
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets444508

Residentialmortgageservicingrightsatfairvalue563830

Otherassets($415and$360offoreclosedpropertyandotherassetscoveredby
FDIClossshareatDecember31,2011andDecember31,2010,respectively)14,28514,921
Totalassets$174,579$157,081
LiabilitiesandShareholders’Equity
Deposits:Noninterest-bearingdeposits$25,684$20,637

Interest-bearingdeposits99,25586,576
Totaldeposits124,939107,213
Federalfundspurchased,securitiessoldunderrepurchaseagreementsandshort-
termborrowedfunds3,5665,673
Long-termdebt21,80321,730

Accountspayableandotherliabilities6,7915,967
Totalliabilities157,099140,583
Commitmentsandcontingencies(Note15)

Shareholders’equity:
Commonstock,$5par3,4863,472

Additionalpaid-incapital5,8735,776

Retainedearnings8,7727,935

Accumulatedothercomprehensiveloss,netofdeferredincometaxes(713)(747)

Noncontrollinginterests6262
Totalshareholders’equity17,48016,498
Totalliabilitiesandshareholders’equity$174,579$157,081
Commonsharesoutstanding697,143694,381

Commonsharesauthorized2,000,0002,000,000

Preferredsharesauthorized5,0005,000
Theaccompanyingnotesareanintegralpartoftheseconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
88BB&TCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATEDSTATEMENTSOFINCOME
YearsEndedDecember31,2011,2010and2009
(Dollarsinmillions,exceptpersharedata,sharesinthousands)
201120102009InterestIncome
Interestandfeesonloansandleases$6,119$6,080$5,547

Interestanddividendsonsecurities7471,0191,319

Interestonotherearningassets191618
Totalinterestincome6,8857,1156,884
InterestExpense
Interestondeposits
6109171,271
Interestonfederalfundspurchased,securitiessoldunderrepurchaseagreementsand
short-termborrowedfunds112258
Interestonlong-termdebt757856711
Totalinterestexpense1,3781,7952,040
NetInterestIncome
5,5075,3204,844
Provisionforcreditlosses1,1902,6382,811
NetInterestIncomeAfterProvisionforCreditLosses
4,3172,6822,033
NoninterestIncome
Insuranceincome
1,0441,0411,047
Servicechargesondeposits563618690

Mortgagebankingincome436521658

Investmentbankingandbrokeragefeesandcommissions333352346

Checkcardfees
271274227
Bankcardfeesandmerchantdiscounts204177156

Trustandinvestmentadvisoryrevenues173159139

Incomefrombank-ownedlifeinsurance12212397

FDIClossshareincome,net(289)(116)14

Otherincome
194254361
Securitiesgains(losses),net
Realizedgains,net
174585240
Other-than-temporaryimpairments(22)(117)(172)

Non-creditportionrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincome(90)86131
Totalsecuritiesgains(losses),net62554199
Totalnoninterestincome3,1133,9573,934
NoninterestExpense
Personnelexpense
2,7272,6162,517
Foreclosedpropertyexpense802747356

Occupancyandequipmentexpense616608579

Loanprocessingexpenses227201147

Regulatorycharges
212211230
Professionalservices
174170130
Softwareexpense
11811794
Amortizationofintangibles99122114

Merger-relatedandrestructuringcharges,net166938

Otherexpenses
811809726
Totalnoninterestexpense5,8025,6704,931
EarningsIncomebeforeincometaxes1,6289691,036

Provisionforincometaxes296115159
Netincome
1,332854877
Noncontrollinginterests
433824
Dividendsandaccretiononpreferredstock——124
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders
$1,289$816$729
EarningsPerCommonShare
Basic$1.85$1.18$1.16
Diluted$1.83$1.16$1.15
Cashdividendsdeclared$0.65$0.60$0.92
WeightedAverageSharesOutstanding
Basic696,532692,489629,583
Diluted705,168701,039635,619
Theaccompanyingnotesareanintegralpartoftheseconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
89BB&TCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATEDSTATEMENTSOFCHANGESINSHAREHOLDERS’EQUITY
YearsEndedDecember31,2011,2010and2009
(Dollarsinmillions,exceptpersharedata,sharesinthousands)
Sharesof
CommonStockPreferredStockCommonStockAdditionalPaid-InCapitalRetainedEarningsAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome(Loss)
NoncontrollingInterestsTotalShareholders’EquityBalance,January1,2009
559,248$3,082$2,796$3,510$7,381$(732)$44$16,081
Add(Deduct):
Comprehensiveincome(loss):
Netincome————853—24877

Netchangeinothercomprehensive
income(loss)—————315—315
Totalcomprehensiveincome(loss)
(Note12)————853315241,192
Stocktransactions:
Inpurchaseacquisitions(1)1,628—832———40
Inconnectionwithequityawards,netof
repurchases463—24———6
Inconnectionwithdividendreinvestment
plan2,688—1444———58
Inconnectionwith401(k)plan1,011—520———25

Incommonstockofferings124,712—6242,014———2,638
Redemptionofpreferredstockandwarrant—(3,134)—(67)———(3,201)

Cashdividendsdeclaredoncommonstock,
$0.92pershare————(570)——(570)
Cashdividendsaccruedonpreferredstock————(73)——(73)

Equity-basedcompensationexpense———62———62

Other,net—52—1(52)—(18)(17)
Balance,December31,2009
689,750$—$3,449$5,620$7,539$(417)$50$16,241
Add(Deduct):
Comprehensiveincome(loss):
Netincome————816—38854

Netchangeinothercomprehensive
income(loss)—————(330)—(330)
Totalcomprehensiveincome(loss)
(Note12)————816(330)38524
Stocktransactions:
Inpurchaseacquisitions(1)57——2———2
Inconnectionwithequityawards,netof
repurchases1,667—824———32
Inconnectionwithdividendreinvestment
plan1,106—624———30
Inconnectionwith401(k)plan1,801—939———48
Cashdividendsdeclaredoncommonstock,
$0.60pershare————(416)——(416)
Equity-basedcompensationexpense———79———79

Other,net———(12)(4)—(26)(42)
Balance,December31,2010
694,381$—$3,472$5,776$7,935$(747)$62$16,498
Add(Deduct):
Comprehensiveincome(loss):
Netincome————1,289—431,332

Netchangeinothercomprehensive
income(loss)—————34—34
Totalcomprehensiveincome(loss)
(Note12)————1,28934431,366
Stocktransactions:
Inpurchaseacquisitions(1)26——1———1
Inconnectionwithequityawards1,963—10(9)———1

Sharesrepurchasedinconnectionwith
equityawards(651)—(3)(15)———(18)
Inconnectionwithdividendreinvestment
plan586—313———16
Inconnectionwith401(k)plan838—419———23
Cashdividendsdeclaredoncommonstock,
$0.65pershare————(453)——(453)
Equity-basedcompensationexpense———98———98

Other,net———(10)1—(43)(52)
Balance,December31,2011
697,143$—$3,486$5,873$8,772$(713)$62$17,480
(1)Includessharesissuedascontingentconsiderationinyearssubsequenttotheacquisition.
Theaccompanyingnotesareanintegralpartoftheseconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
90BB&TCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATEDSTATEMENTSOFCASHFLOWS
YearsEndedDecember31,2011,2010and2009
(Dollarsinmillions)
201120102009CashFlowsFromOperatingActivities:
Netincome
$1,332$854$877
Adjustmentstoreconcilenetincometonetcashfromoperatingactivities:
Provisionforcreditlosses1,1902,6382,811

Depreciation264260225
Amortizationofintangibles99122114

Equity-basedcompensation987962

(Gain)lossonsecurities,net(62)(554)(199)

Netwrite-downs/lossesonforeclosedproperty655576253

Netchangeinoperatingassetsandliabilities:
Segregatedcashduefrombanks289(39)109

Tradingsecurities383(260)

Loansheldforsale(583)(620)(31)

FDIClosssharereceivable869921—

Otherassets(55)(2,006)(1,058)

Accountspayableandotherliabilities572689(3,390)
Other,net
(141)(25)(6)
Netcashfromoperatingactivities4,5652,898(493)
CashFlowsFromInvestingActivities:
Proceedsfromsalesofsecuritiesavailableforsale4,00631,33417,074

Proceedsfrommaturities,callsandpaydownsofsecuritiesavailableforsale3,2716,0497,918

Purchasesofsecuritiesavailableforsale(13,926)(26,598)(21,924)

Proceedsfrommaturities,callsandpaydownsofsecuritiesheldtomaturity1,828——

Purchasesofsecuritiesheldtomaturity(7,578)——

Originationsandpurchasesofloansandleases,netofprincipalcollected(6,240)(4,594)(392)

Netcashfromdivestitures—(832)27

Netcashfrombusinesscombinations(86)(7)4,475

Purchasesofpremisesandequipment(224)(428)(174)

Proceedsfromsalesofforeclosedpropertyorotherrealestateheldforsale1,017967404

Other,net
10688(175)
Netcashfrominvestingactivities(17,826)5,9797,233
CashFlowsFromFinancingActivities:
Netchangeindeposits17,799(6,843)(2,901)

Netchangeinfederalfundspurchased,securitiessoldunderrepurchaseagreements
andshort-termborrowedfunds(2,107)(2,434)(2,756)
Proceedsfromissuanceoflong-termdebt2,0105003,758

Repaymentoflong-termdebt(2,190)(336)(3,749)

Netproceedsfromcommonstockissued221102,727

Retirementofpreferredstockandwarrant——(3,201)

Cashdividendspaidoncommonstock(446)(415)(727)

Cashdividendspaidonpreferredstock——(93)

Other,net
132277111
Netcashfromfinancingactivities15,220(9,141)(6,831)
NetChangeinCashandCashEquivalents
1,959(264)(91)
CashandCashEquivalentsatBeginningofPeriod
2,3852,6492,740
CashandCashEquivalentsatEndofPeriod
$4,344$2,385$2,649
SupplementalDisclosureofCashFlowInformation:
Cashpaid(received)duringtheperiodfor:
Interest$1,404$1,868$2,126
Incometaxes
(82)972431
Noncashinvestingandfinancingactivities:
Transferofsecuritiesavailableforsaletosecuritiesheldtomaturity8,341——

Transfersofloanstoforeclosedproperty1,0831,5211,551

Transfersofloansheldforinvestmenttoloansheldforsale2261,604731

Commonstockissuedinbusinesscombinations1240
Theaccompanyingnotesareanintegralpartoftheseconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
91NOTE1.SummaryofSignificantAccountingPolicies
GeneralBB&TCorporation(“BB&T”,the“Company”or“ParentCompa
ny”)isafinancialholdingcompanyorganizedunderthelaws
ofNorthCarolina.BB&Tconductsoperationsthroughitsprincipalbanksubsidiary,BranchBankingandTrustCompany

(“BranchBank”),afederallycharteredthriftinstitution,BB&TFinancial,FSB(“BB&TFSB”)anditsnonbanksubsidiaries.
TheaccountingandreportingpoliciesofBB&Tanditssubsidiariesareinaccordancewithaccountingprinciples
generallyacceptedintheUnitedStatesofAmerica(“GAAP”).Additionally,whereapplicable,thepoliciesconformtothe

accountingandreportingguidelinesprescribedbybankregulatoryauthorities.ThefollowingisasummaryofBB&T’s

moresignificantaccountingpolicies.
NatureofOperations
BranchBankhasofficesinNorthCarolina,SouthCarolina,Virginia,Maryland,Georgia,WestVirginia,Tennessee,
Kentucky,Florida,Alabama,Indiana,TexasandWashington,D.C.BranchBankprovidesawiderangeofbanking

servicestoindividualsandbusinesses,andoffersavarietyofloanstobusinessesandconsumers.Suchloansaremade

primarilytoindividualsresidinginthemarketareasdescribedaboveortobusinesseslocatedwithinBB&T’sgeographic

footprint.BranchBankalsomarketsawiderangeofdepositservicestoindividuals,businessesandpublicentities.Branch

Bankoffers,eitherdirectly,orthroughitssubsidiaries,leasefinancingtobusinessesandmunicipalgovernments;

factoring;discountbrokerageservices,annuitiesandmutualfunds;lifeinsurance,propertyandcasualtyinsurance,health

insuranceandcommercialgeneralliabilityinsuranceonanagencybasisandthroughawholesaleinsurancebrokerage

operation;insurancepremiumfinancing;permanentfinancingarrangementsforcommercialrealestate;loanservicingfor

third-partyinvestors;directconsumerfinanceloanstoindividuals;trustandretirementservices,comprehensivewealth

advisoryservicesandassociationservices.BB&TFSBandthedirectnonbanksubsidiariesofBB&Tprovideavarietyof

financialservicesincludingcreditcardlending,automobilelending,equipmentfinancing,full-servicesecurities

brokerage,assetmanagementandcapitalmarketsservices.
PrinciplesofConsolidation
TheconsolidatedfinancialstatementsofBB&TincludetheaccountsofBB&TCorporationandthosesubsidiariesthatare
majorityownedbyBB&TandoverwhichBB&Texercisescontrol.Inconsolidation,allsignificantintercompanyaccounts

andtransactionsareeliminated.Theresultsofoperationsofcompaniesorassetsacquiredareincludedonlyfromthedatesof

acquisition.Allmaterialwholly-ownedandmajority-ownedsubsidiariesareconsolidatedunlessGAAPrequiresotherwise.
BB&Tholdsinvestmentsincertainlegalentitiesthatareconsideredvariableinterestentities(“VIE’s”).VIE’sarelegal
entitiesinwhichequityinvestorsdonothavesufficientequityatriskfortheentitytoindependentlyfinanceitsactivities,

orasagroup,theholdersoftheequityinvestmentatrisklackthepowerthroughvotingorsimilarrightstodirectthe

activitiesoftheentitythatmostsignificantlyimpactitseconomicperformance,ordonothavetheobligationtoabsorbthe

expectedlossesoftheentityortherighttoreceiveexpectedresidualreturnsoftheentity.ConsolidationofaVIEis

consideredappropriateifareportingentityholdsacontrollingfinancialinterestintheVIE.
BB&TevaluatesitsinvestmentsinVIE’stodetermineifacontrollingfinancialinterestisheld.Thisevaluationgives
appropriateconsiderationtothedesignoftheentityandthevariabilitythattheentitywasdesignedtopassalong,the

relativepowerofeachofthepartiestotheVIE,andtoBB&T’srelativeobligationtoabsorblossesorreceiveresidual

returnsoftheentity,inrelationtosuchobligationsandrightsheldbyotherpartiestotheVIE.BB&Thasvariable

interestsincertainentitiesthatwerenotrequiredtobeconsolidated,includingaffordablehousingpartnershipinterests,

historictaxcreditpartnerships,andotherpartnershipinterests.RefertoNote15foradditionaldisclosuresregarding

BB&T’ssignificantvariableinterestentities.
BB&Taccountsforunconsolidatedpartnershipandsimilarinvestmentsusingtheequitymethodofaccounting.In
additiontoaffordablehousingpartnerships,whichrepresentthemajorityofunconsolidatedinvestmentsinvariable

interestentities,BB&Talsohasinvestmentsandfuturefundingcommitmentstoventurecapitalandotherentities.The

maximumpotentialexposuretolossesrelativetoinvestmentsinvariableinterestentitiesisgenerallylimitedtothesumof

theoutstandingbalance,futurefundingcommitmentsandanyrelatedloanstotheentity.Loanstotheseentitiesare

underwritteninsubstantiallythesamemannerasareotherloansandaregenerallysecured.
92BB&ThasinvestmentsincertainentitiesforwhichBB&Tdoesnothavethecontrollinginterest.Fortheseinvestments,
theCompanyrecordsitsportionofincomeorlossinothernoninterestincomeintheConsolidatedStatementsofIncome.

BB&Tperiodicallyevaluatestheseinvestmentsforimpairment.
ReclassificationsIncertaininstances,amountsreportedinprioryears’consolidatedfinancialstatementshavebeenreclassifiedtoconformtothe
currentpresentation.Suchreclassificationshadnoeffectonpreviouslyreportedcashflows,shareholders’equityornetincome.
UseofEstimatesinthePreparationofFinancialStatements
ThepreparationoffinancialstatementsinconformitywithGAAPrequiresmanagementtomakeestimatesand
assumptionsthataffectthereportedamountsofassetsandliabilitiesanddisclosureofcontingentassetsandliabilitiesas

ofthedateofthefinancialstatementsandthereportedamountsofrevenuesandexpensesduringthereportingperiods.

Actualresultscoulddifferfromthoseestimates.Materialestimatesthatareparticularlysusceptibletosignificantchange

includethedeterminationoftheallowanceforcreditlosses,determinationoffairvalueforfinancialinstruments,

valuationofgoodwill,intangibleassetsandotherpurchaseaccountingrelatedadjustments,benefitplanobligationsand

expenses,andtaxassets,liabilitiesandexpense.
BusinessCombinations
BB&Taccountsforallbusinesscombinationsusingtheacquisitionmethodofaccounting.Underthismethodofaccounting,
theaccountsofanacquiredentityareincludedwiththeacquirer’saccountsasofthedateofacquisitionwithanyexcessof

purchasepriceoverthefairvalueofthenetassetsacquired(includingidentifiableintangibles)capitalizedasgoodwill.
Toconsummateanacquisition,BB&Ttypicallyissuescommonstockand/orpayscash,dependingonthetermsofthe
acquisitionagreement.Thevalueofcommonsharesissuedisdeterminedbaseduponthemarketpriceofthestockasof

theclosingoftheacquisition.
Inconnectionwithmergersandacquisitions,BB&Tmayissueoptionstopurchasesharesofitscommonstockin
exchangeforoptionstopurchasesharesoftheacquiredentitiesthatareoutstandingatthetimethemergeriscompleted.

Totheextentvested,theoptionsareconsideredtobepartofthepurchasepricepaid.Thereisnochangeintheaggregate

intrinsicvalueoftheoptionsissuedcomparedtotheintrinsicvalueoftheoptionsheldimmediatelybeforetheexchange,

nordoestheratiooftheexercisepriceperoptiontothemarketvaluepersharechange.
CashandCashEquivalents
Cashandcashequivalentsincludecashandduefrombanks,interest-bearingdepositswithbanks,Federalfundssoldand
securitiespurchasedunderresaleagreementsorsimilararrangements.Cashandcashequivalentshavematuritiesofthree

monthsorless.Accordingly,thecarryingamountofsuchinstrumentsisconsideredareasonableestimateoffairvalue.
SecuritiesBB&Tclassifiesmarketableinvestmentsecuritiesasheldtomaturity,availableforsaleortrading.Interestincomeand
dividendsonsecuritiesarerecognizedininterestincomeonanaccrualbasis.Premiumsanddiscountsondebtsecurities

areamortizedasanadjustmenttointerestincomeusingtheinterestmethod.
DebtsecuritiesareclassifiedasheldtomaturitywhereBB&Thasboththeintentandabilitytoholdthesecuritiesto
maturity.Thesesecuritiesarereportedatamortizedcost.
Debtsecurities,whichmaybesoldtomeetliquidityneedsarisingfromunanticipateddepositandloanfluctuations,
changesinregulatorycapitalrequirements,orunforeseenchangesinmarketconditions,areclassifiedasavailableforsale.

Securitiesavailableforsalearereportedatestimatedfairvalue,withunrealizedgainsandlossesreportedinaccumulated

othercomprehensiveincomeorloss,netofdeferredincometaxes,intheshareholders’equitysectionoftheConsolidated

BalanceSheets.Gainsorlossesrealizedfromthesaleofsecuritiesavailableforsalearedeterminedbyspecific

identificationandareincludedinnoninterestincome.
93BB&Tevaluateseachheldtomaturityandavailableforsalesecurityinalosspositionforother-than-temporary
impairment(“OTTI”).BB&Tconsiderssuchfactorsasthelengthoftimeandtheextenttowhichthemarketvaluehas

beenbelowamortizedcost,longtermexpectationsandrecentexperienceregardingprincipalandinterestpayments,

BB&T’sintenttosellandwhetheritismorelikelythannotthattheCompanywouldberequiredtosellthosesecurities

beforetheanticipatedrecoveryoftheamortizedcostbasis.ThecreditcomponentofanOTTIlossisrecognizedin

earningsandthenon-creditcomponentisrecognizedinaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincomeinsituationswhere

BB&Tdoesnotintendtosellthesecurityanditismore-likely-than-notthatBB&Twillnotberequiredtosellthesecurity

priortorecovery.
Tradingaccountsecurities,whichincludebothdebtandequitysecurities,arereportedatfairvalue.Unrealizedmarket
valueadjustments,fees,andrealizedgainsorlossesfromtradingaccountactivities(determinedbyspecificidentification)

areincludedinnoninterestincome.Interestincomeontradingaccountsecuritiesisincludedininterestanddividends

fromotherearningassets.
LoansHeldforSale
BB&Taccountsforneworiginationsofprimeresidentialmortgageandcommercialmortgageloansheldforsaleatfair
value.BB&Taccountsforthederivativesusedtoeconomicallyhedgetheloansheldforsaleatfairvalue.Heldfor

investmentloansthathavebeentransferredtoloansheldforsalearecarriedatthelowerofcostormarketbecausethese

loansarenotexchangedinanactivemarketandBB&Tdoesnothedgetheseassets.
Thevalueforloansheldforsalecarriedatfairvalueisprimarilybasedonquotedmarketpricesforsecuritiesbackedby
similartypesofloans.Directloanoriginationfeesandcostsrelatedtoloansheldforsaleandaccountedforatfairvalue

arenotcapitalized,butratherarerecordedasmortgagebankingincomeinthecaseofthedirectloanoriginationfeesand

primarilypersonnelexpenseinthecaseofthedirectloanoriginationcosts.Gainsandlossesonsalesofmortgageloans

areincludedinmortgagebankingincome.Gainsandlossesonsalesofcommercialloansheldforsaleareincludedin

othernoninterestincome.
LoansandLeases
TheCompany’saccountingmethodsforloansdifferdependingonwhethertheloansareoriginatedoracquired,andif
acquired,whetherornottheacquiredloansreflectcreditdeteriorationsincethedateoforiginationsuchthatitisprobable

atthedateofacquisitionthatBB&Twillbeunabletocollectallcontractuallyrequiredpayments.
OriginatedLoansandLeases
Loansandleasesthatmanagementhastheintentandabilitytoholdfortheforeseeablefuturearereportedattheiroutstanding
principalbalancesnetofanyunearnedincome,charge-offs,andunamortizedfeesandcostsonoriginatedloans.Thenetamount

ofnonrefundableloanoriginationfeesandcertaindirectcostsassociatedwiththelendingprocessaredeferredandamortizedto

interestincomeoverthecontractuallivesoftheloansusingmethodsthatapproximatetheinterestmethod.
BB&Tclassifiesallloansandleasespastduewhenthepaymentofprincipalandinterestbaseduponcontractualtermsis
greaterthan30daysdelinquent.Whencommercialloansareplacedonnonaccrualstatusasdescribedbelow,acharge-off

isrecorded,asapplicable,todecreasethecarryingvalueofsuchloanstotheestimatedfairvalueofthecollateralsecuring

theloan.Consumerloansaresubjecttomandatorycharge-offataspecifieddelinquencydateconsistentwithregulatory

guidelines.Assuch,consumerloansaresubjecttocollateralvaluationandcharge-off,asapplicable,whentheyaremoved

tononaccrualstatusasdescribedbelow.
PurchasedLoans
Purchasedloansarerecordedattheirfairvalueattheacquisitiondate.Creditdiscountsareincludedinthedetermination
offairvalue;therefore,anallowanceforloanlossesisnotrecordedattheacquisitiondate.
Acquiredloansareevaluateduponacquisitionandclassifiedaseitherpurchasedimpairedorpurchasednon-impaired.
PurchasedimpairedloansreflectcreditdeteriorationsinceoriginationsuchthatitisprobableatacquisitionthatBB&Twill

beunabletocollectallcontractuallyrequiredpayments.Forpurchasedimpairedloans,expectedcashflowsattheacquisition

dateinexcessofthefairvalueofloansarerecordedasinterestincomeoverthelifeoftheloansusingalevelyieldmethodif
94thetimingandamountofthefuturecashflowsisreasonablyestimable.Subsequenttotheacquisitiondate,increasesincash
flowsoverthoseexpectedattheacquisitiondatearerecognizedprospectivelyasinterestincome.Decreasesinexpectedcash

flowsaftertheacquisitiondatearerecognizedbyrecordinganallowanceforloanlosses.Forpurchasednon-impairedloans,

thedifferencebetweenthefairvalueandunpaidprincipalbalanceoftheloanattheacquisitiondateisamortizedoraccreted

tointerestincomeovertheestimatedlifeoftheloansusingamethodthatapproximatestheinterestmethod.
BasedonthecharacteristicsofloansacquiredinaFederalDepositInsuranceCorporation(“FDIC”)assistedtransaction
andtheimpactofassociatedloss-sharingarrangements,BB&Tdeterminedthatitwasappropriatetoapplytheexpected

cashflowsapproachdescribedabovetoallloansacquiredinsuchtransactions.
NonperformingAssets
Nonperformingassetsincludenonaccrualloansandleasesandforeclosedproperty.Foreclosedpropertyconsistsofreal
estateandotherassetsacquiredasaresultofcustomers’loandefaults.BB&T’spoliciesrelatedtowhenloansareplaced

onnonaccrualstatusconformtoguidelinesprescribedbybankregulatoryauthorities.Themajorityofcommercialloans

andleasesareplacedonnonaccrualstatuswhenitisprobablethatprincipalorinterestisnotfullycollectible,orgenerally

whenprincipalorinterestbecomes90dayspastdue,whicheveroccursfirst.Otherlendingsubsidiaries’loans,which

includesbothconsumerandcommercialloans,areplacedonnonaccrualstatusgenerallywhenprincipalandinterest

becomes90dayspastdue.Directretailloans,mortgageandsalesfinanceloansareplacedonnonaccrualstatusatvarying

intervals,basedonthetypeofproduct,generallywhenprincipalandinterestbecomesbetween90daysand180dayspast

due.Revolvingcreditloansarenotplacedonnonaccrualbutarechargedoffaftertheybecome150dayspastdue,with

unpaidfeesandfinancechargesreversedagainstinterestincome.
Certainloanspastdue90daysormoremayremainonaccrualstatusifmanagementdeterminesthatitdoesnothave
concernoverthecollectibilityofprincipalandinterest.Generally,whenloansareplacedonnonaccrualstatus,accrued

interestreceivableisreversedagainstinterestincomeinthecurrentperiod.Interestpaymentsreceivedthereafterare

appliedasareductiontotheremainingprincipalbalanceaslongasconcernexistsastotheultimatecollectionofthe

principal.Loansandleasesaregenerallyremovedfromnonaccrualstatuswhentheybecomecurrentastobothprincipal

andinterestandconcernnolongerexistsastothecollectabilityofprincipalandinterest.
Assetsacquiredasaresultofforeclosurearecarriedatthelowerofcostornetrealizablevalue.Netrealizablevalueequals
fairvaluelessestimatedsellingcosts.Costisdeterminedbasedonthesumofunpaidprincipal,accruedbutunpaidinterestif

notrequiredtobereversed,andacquisitioncostsassociatedwiththeloan.Anyexcessofcostovernetrealizablevalueatthe

timeofforeclosureischargedtotheallowanceforloanandleaselosses.Nonperformingassetsaresubjecttoperiodic

revaluationsofthecollateralunderlyingimpairedloansandforeclosedrealestate.Theperiodicrevaluationsaregenerally

basedontheappraisedvalueofthepropertyandmayincludeadditionalliquidityadjustmentsbasedupontheexpected

retentionperiod.BB&T’spoliciesrequirethatvaluationsbeupdatedatleastannuallyandthatuponforeclosure,thevaluation

mustnotbeagedgreaterthansixmonthsold,otherwiseanupdatedappraisalisrequired.Routinemaintenancecosts,

subsequentdeclinesinmarketvalueandnetlossesondisposalareincludedinforeclosedpropertyexpense.
RestructuringsModificationstoaborrower’sdebtagreementareconsideredtroubleddebtrestructurings(“restructurings”)ifa
concessionisgrantedforeconomicorlegalreasonsrelatedtoaborrower’sfinancialdifficultiesthatotherwisewouldnot

beconsidered.Restructuringsareundertakeninordertoimprovethelikelihoodofrecoveryontheloanandmaytakethe

formofmodificationsmadewiththestatedinterestratelowerthanthecurrentmarketratefornewdebtwithsimilarrisk,

othermodificationstothestructureoftheloanthatfalloutsideofnormalunderwritingpoliciesandprocedures,orin

certainlimitedcircumstancesforgivenessofprincipalorinterest.Modificationsofcoveredandotheracquiredloansthat

arepartofapoolaccountedforasasingleassetarenotconsideredrestructurings.Restructuringscaninvolveloans

remainingonnonaccrual,movingtononaccrual,orcontinuingonaccruingstatus,dependingontheindividualfactsand

circumstancesoftheborrower.Incircumstanceswheretherestructuringinvolveschargingoffaportionoftheloan

balance,BB&Ttypicallyclassifiestheserestructuringsasnonaccrual.
Inconnectionwithcommercialrestructurings,thedecisiontomaintainaloanthathasbeenrestructuredonaccrualstatus
isbasedonacurrent,welldocumentedcreditevaluationoftheborrower’sfinancialconditionandprospectsforrepayment

underthemodifiedterms.Thisevaluationincludesconsiderationoftheborrower’scurrentcapacitytopay,whichamong

otherthingsmayincludeareviewoftheborrower’scurrentfinancialstatements,ananalysisofglobalcashflowsufficient
95topayalldebtobligations,andanevaluationofsecondarysourcesofpaymentfromtheclientandanyguarantors.This
evaluationalsoincludesanevaluationoftheborrower’scurrentwillingnesstopay,whichmayincludeareviewofpast

paymenthistory,anevaluationoftheborrower’swillingnesstoprovideinformationonatimelybasis,andconsideration

ofoffersfromtheborrowertoprovideadditionalcollateralorguarantorsupport.Thecreditevaluationalsoreflects

considerationoftheborrower’sfuturecapacityandwillingnesstopay,whichmayincludeevaluationofcashflow

projections,considerationoftheadequacyofcollateraltocoverallprincipalandinterestandtrendsindicatingimproving

profitabilityandcollectabilityofreceivables.
Theevaluationofmortgageandconsumerloansincludesanevaluationoftheclient’sdebttoincomeratio,creditreport,
propertyvalue,loanvintage,andcertainotherclient-specificfactorsthathaveimpactedtheirabilitytomaketimely

principalandinterestpaymentsontheloan.
Restructurednonaccrualloansmaybereturnedtoaccrualstatusbasedonacurrent,well-documentedcreditevaluationof
theborrower’sfinancialconditionandprospectsforrepaymentunderthemodifiedterms.Thisevaluationmustinclude

considerationoftheborrower’ssustainedhistoricalrepaymentperformanceforareasonableperiod(generallyaminimum

ofsixmonths)priortothedateonwhichtheloanisreturnedtoaccrualstatus.Sustainedhistoricalrepayment

performanceforareasonabletimepriortotherestructuringmaybetakenintoaccount.Inconnectionwithretail

restructurings,anonperformingloanwillbereturnedtoaccruingstatuswhencurrentastoprincipalandinterestandupon

asustainedhistoricalrepaymentperformance(generallyaminimumofsixmonths).
AllowanceforCreditLosses
Theallowanceforcreditlossescomprisestheallowanceforloanandleaselossesandthereserveforunfundedlending
commitments.Theallowanceforcreditlossesrepresentsmanagement’sbestestimateofprobablecreditlossesinherentin

theloanandleaseportfoliosandoff-balancesheetlendingcommitmentsatthebalancesheetdate.TheCompany

determinestheallowanceforcreditlossesbasedonanongoingevaluation.Thisevaluationisinherentlysubjective

becauseitrequiresmaterialestimates,includingtheamountsandtimingofcashflowsexpectedtobereceivedon

impairedloans.Thoseestimatesaresusceptibletosignificantchange.Changestotheallowanceforcreditlossesaremade

bychargestotheprovisionforcreditlosses,whichisreflectedintheConsolidatedStatementsofIncome.Loansorlease

balancesdeemedtobeuncollectiblearechargedoffagainsttheallowanceforloanandleaselosses.Recoveriesof

amountspreviouslychargedoffarecreditedtotheallowanceforloanandleaselosses.Themethodologyusedto

determinethereserveforunfundedlendingcommitmentsisinherentlysimilartothatusedtodeterminethecollective

componentoftheallowanceforloanandleaselossesdescribedabove,adjustedforfactorsspecifictobinding

commitments,includingtheprobabilityoffundingandexposureatdefault.Whilemanagementusesthebestinformation

availabletoestablishtheallowanceforcreditlosses,futureadjustmentsmaybenecessaryifeconomicconditionsdiffer

substantiallyfromtheassumptionsusedincomputingtheallowanceor,ifrequiredbyregulators,baseduponinformation

availabletothematthetimeoftheirexaminations.
Accountingstandardsrequirethepresentationofcertaindisclosureinformationattheportfoliosegmentlevel,which
representsthelevelatwhichanentitydevelopsanddocumentsasystematicmethodologytodetermineitsallowancefor

creditlosses.BB&Tconcludedthatitsloanandleaseportfoliocomprisesthreeportfoliosegments;commercial,retailand

coveredandotheracquired.Thecommercialportfoliosegmentincludescommercialrealestate,commercialandindustrial

andotherloansoriginatedbycertainotherlendingsubsidiaries,andwasidentifiedbasedontherisk-basedapproachused

toestimatetheallowanceforloanandleaselossesforthevastmajorityoftheseloans.Theretailportfoliosegment

includesdirectretaillending,revolvingcredit,mortgage,salesfinanceandotherloansoriginatedbycertainretail-oriented

subsidiaries,andwasidentifiedbasedonthedelinquency-basedapproachusedtoestimatetheallowancefortheseloans.

Thecoveredandotheracquiredportfoliosegmentwasidentifiedbasedontheexpectedcashflowsapproachusedto

estimatetheallowancerelatedtoloansacquiredsubsequenttoDecember31,2008.
AportionoftheCorporation’sallowanceforloanandleaselossesisnotallocatedtoanyspecificcategoryofloans.This
unallocatedportionoftheallowancereflectsmanagement’sbestestimateoftheelementsofimprecisionandestimation

riskinherentinthecalculationoftheoverallallowance.Duetothesubjectivityinvolvedindeterminingtheoverall

allowance,includingtheunallocatedportion,theportionconsideredunallocatedmayfluctuatefromperiodtoperiod

basedonmanagement’sevaluationofthefactorsaffectingtheassumptionsusedincalculatingtheallowance,including

historicallossexperience,currenteconomicconditions,industryorborrowerconcentrationsandthestatusofmerged

institutions.96Theentireamountoftheallowanceforcreditlossesisavailabletoabsorblossesonanyloancategoryorlending-related
commitment.ThefollowingprovidesadescriptionofBB&T’saccountingpoliciesandmethodologiesrelatedtoeachofitsportfolio
segments:CommercialThevastmajorityofloansinthecommerciallendingportfolioareassignedriskgradesbasedonanassessmentof
conditionsthataffecttheborrower’sabilitytomeetcontractualobligationsundertheloanagreement.Thisprocess

includesreviewingborrowers’financialinformation,historicalpaymentexperience,creditdocumentation,public

information,andotherinformationspecifictoeachborrower.Riskgradesarereviewedonanannualbasisforallcredit

relationshipswithtotalcreditexposureof$1millionormore,oratanypointmanagementbecomesawareofinformation

affectingtheborrower’sabilitytofulfilltheirobligations.Forcommercialclientswheretotalcreditexposureislessthan

$1million,BB&Thasdevelopedanautomatedloanreviewsystemtoidentifyandproactivelymanageaccountswitha

higherriskofloss.The“score”producedbythisautomatedsystemisupdatedmonthly.
Onaquarterlybasis,BB&Treviewsallcommerciallendingrelationshipswithoutstandingdebtof$5millionormorethat
havebeenclassifiedassubstandardordoubtful.Whilethisreviewislargelyfocusedontheborrower’sabilitytorepaythe

loan,BB&Talsoconsidersthecapacityandwillingnessofaloan’sguarantorstosupportthedebtserviceontheloanasa

secondarysourceofrepayment.Whenaguarantorexhibitsthedocumentedcapacityandwillingnesstosupporttheloan,

BB&Tmayconsiderextendingtheloanmaturityand/ortemporarilydeferringprincipalpaymentsiftheultimate

collectionofbothprincipalandinterestisnotinquestion.Inthesecases,BB&Tmaynotdeemtheloantobeimpaired

duetothedocumentedcapacityandwillingnessoftheguarantortorepaytheloan.Loansareconsideredimpairedwhen

theborrower(orguarantorincertaincircumstances)doesnothavethecashflowcapacityorwillingnesstoservicethe

debtaccordingtocontractualterms,oritdoesnotappearreasonabletoassumethattheborrowerwillcontinuetopay

accordingtothecontractualagreement.BB&Testablishesaspecificreserveforeachloanthathasbeendeemedimpaired

basedonthecriteriaoutlinedabove.Theamountofthereserveisbasedonthepresentvalueofexpectedcashflows

discountedattheloan’seffectiveinterestrate,and/orthevalueofcollateral.BB&Thasalsoestablishedareviewprocess

relatedtorestructuringsandotherimpairedloansthatareincommerciallendingrelationshipswithoutstandingdebtof

lessthan$5millionatthebalancesheetdate.Inconnectionwiththisprocess,BB&Testablishesreservesrelatedtothese

loansthatarecalculatedusinganexpectedcashflowapproach.Thesediscountedcashflowanalysesincorporate

adjustmentstofuturecashflowsthatreflectmanagement’sbestestimateofthedefaultriskrelatedtorestructuringsbased

onacombinationofhistoricalexperienceandmanagementjudgment.
BB&Talsomaintainsreservesforcollectiveimpairmentthatreflectanestimateoflossesrelatedtonon-impairedcommercial
loansasofthebalancesheetdate.EmbeddedlossestimatesforBB&T’scommercialloanportfolioarebasedonestimated

migrationrates,whichareestimatedbasedonhistoricalexperience,andcurrentriskmixasindicatedbytheriskgradingprocess

describedabove.Embeddedlossestimatesmaybeadjustedtoreflectcurrenteconomicconditionsandcurrentportfoliotrends

includingcreditquality,concentrations,agingoftheportfolio,andsignificantpolicyandunderwritingchanges.
RetailThemajorityoftheallowanceforloanandleaselossesrelatedtotheretaillendingportfolioiscalculatedonacollectivebasis
usingadelinquency-basedapproach.EmbeddedlossestimatesforBB&T’sretaillendingportfolioarebasedonestimated

migrationratesthataredevelopedbasedonhistoricalexperience,andcurrentriskmixasindicatedbyprevailingdelinquency

rates.Theseestimatesmaybeadjustedtoreflectcurrenteconomicconditionsandcurrentportfoliotrends.Theremaining

portionoftheallowancerelatedtotheretaillendingportfoliorelatestoloansthathavebeendeemedimpairedbasedontheir

classificationasarestructuringatthebalancesheetdate.BB&Testablishesspecificreservesrelatedtotheserestructured

loansusinganexpectedcashflowapproach.Theallowanceforretailrestructuringsisbasedondiscountedcashflow

analysesthatincorporateadjustmentstofuturecashflowsthatreflectmanagement’sbestestimateofthedefaultriskrelated

torestructuringsbasedonacombinationofhistoricalexperienceandmanagementjudgment.
AcquiredLoans
Theallowanceforloanandleaselossesrelatedto(1)purchasedimpairedloansand(2)allloansacquiredinanFDIC-
assistedtransaction,isbasedonananalysisthatisperformedeachperiodtoestimatetheexpectedcashflowsforeachof
97theloanpools.Totheextentthattheexpectedcashflowsofaloanpoolhavedecreasedsincetheacquisitiondate,BB&T
establishesanallowanceforloanlosses.Fornon-FDICassistedpurchasednon-impairedloans,BB&Tusesanapproach

consistentwiththatdescribedabovefororiginatedloansandleases.
CoveredAssetsandRelatedFDICLossShareReceivable
AssetssubjecttolosssharingagreementswiththeFDICarelabeled“covered”onthebalancesheetandincludecertain
loans,securitiesandotherassets.
ThefairvalueofthereimbursementtheCompanyexpectedtoreceivefromtheFDICunderthoseagreementswasrecordedin
theFDIClosssharereceivableatthedateofacquisitionontheConsolidatedBalanceSheets.ThefairvalueoftheFDICloss

sharereceivablewasestimatedusingadiscountedcashflowmethodology.Thediscountrateusedinthiscalculationis

determinedusingarisk-freeyieldcurveplusapremiumreflectingtheuncertaintyrelatedtothetimingofcashflows.The

incomestatementeffectofthechangesintheFDIClosssharereceivableincludestheaccretionduetodiscountingandchanges

inexpectedreimbursements.Decreasesinexpectedreimbursementsarerecognizedinincomeprospectivelyconsistentwiththe

approachtakentorecognizeincreasesincashflowsoncoveredloans.Increasesinexpectedreimbursementsarerecognizedin

incomeinthesameperiodthattheallowanceforcreditlossesfortherelatedloansisrecognized.
PremisesandEquipment
Premises,equipment,capitalleasesandleaseholdimprovementsarestatedatcostlessaccumulateddepreciationor
amortization.Landisstatedatcost.Inaddition,purchasedsoftwareandcostsofcomputersoftwaredevelopedforinternal

usearecapitalizedprovidedcertaincriteriaaremet.Depreciationandamortizationarecomputedprincipallyusingthe

straight-linemethodovertheestimatedusefullivesoftherelatedassets.Leaseholdimprovementsareamortizedona

straight-linebasisoverthelesseroftheleaseterms,includingcertainrenewalsthatweredeemedprobableatlease

inception,ortheestimatedusefullivesoftheimprovements.Capitalizedleasesareamortizedbythesamemethodsas

premisesandequipmentovertheestimatedusefullivesorleaseterms,whicheverisless.Obligationsundercapitalleases

areamortizedusingtheinterestmethodtoallocatepaymentsbetweenprincipalreductionandinterestexpense.Rent

expenseandrentalincomeonoperatingleasesisrecordedusingthestraight-linemethodovertheappropriateleaseterms.
SecuritiesSoldUnderRepurchaseAgreements
Securitiessoldunderrepurchaseagreementsgenerallyhavematuritiesrangingfrom1dayto36months.Securitiessold
underagreementstorepurchasearereflectedascollateralizedborrowingsontheConsolidatedBalanceSheetsandare

recordedbasedontheamountofcashreceivedinconnectionwiththeborrowing.Thetermsofrepurchaseagreements

mayrequireBB&Ttoprovideadditionalcollateralifthefairvalueofthesecuritiesunderlyingtheborrowingsdeclines

duringthetermoftheagreement.
IncomeTaxes
Deferredincometaxeshavebeenprovidedwhendifferentaccountingmethodshavebeenusedindeterminingincomefor
incometaxpurposesandforfinancialreportingpurposes.Deferredtaxassetsandliabilitiesarerecognizedbasedonfuture

taxconsequencesattributabletodifferencesarisingfromthefinancialstatementcarryingvaluesofassetsandliabilities

andtheirtaxbases.Intheeventofchangesinthetaxlaws,deferredtaxassetsandliabilitiesareadjustedintheperiodof

theenactmentofthosechanges,withthecumulativeeffectsincludedinthecurrentyear’sincometaxprovision.
DerivativeFinancialInstruments
Aderivativeisafinancialinstrumentthatderivesitscashflows,andthereforeitsvalue,byreferencetoanunderlying
instrument,indexorreferencedinterestrate.Theseinstrumentsincludeinterestrateswaps,caps,floors,collars,financial

forwardsandfuturescontracts,swaptions,when-issuedsecurities,foreignexchangecontractsandoptionswrittenand

purchased.BB&Tusesderivativesprimarilytomanageeconomicriskrelatedtosecurities,commercialloans,mortgage

servicingrightsandmortgagebankingoperations,long-termdebtandotherfundingsources.BB&Talsousesderivatives

tofacilitatetransactionsonbehalfofitsclients.Thefairvalueofderivativesinagainorlosspositionisincludedinother

assetsorliabilities,respectively,ontheConsolidatedBalanceSheets.
BB&Tclassifiesitsderivativefinancialinstrumentsaseither(1)ahedgeofanexposuretochangesinthefairvalueofa
recordedassetorliability(“fairvaluehedge”),(2)ahedgeofanexposuretochangesinthecashflowsofarecognized
98asset,liabilityorforecastedtransaction(“cashflowhedge”),(3)ahedgeofanetinvestmentinasubsidiary,or
(4)derivativesnotdesignatedashedges.Changesinthefairvalueofderivativesnotdesignatedashedgesarerecognized

incurrentperiodearnings.BB&Thasmasternettingagreementswiththederivativesdealerswithwhichitdoesbusiness,

butreflectsgrossgainsandlossesontheConsolidatedBalanceSheets.
BB&Tusesthelong-haulmethodtoassesshedgeeffectiveness.BB&Tdocuments,bothatinceptionandoverthelifeof
thehedge,atleastquarterly,itsanalysisofactualandexpectedhedgeeffectiveness.Thisanalysisincludestechniques

suchasregressionanalysisandhypotheticalderivativestodemonstratethatthehedgehasbeen,andisexpectedtobe,

highlyeffectiveinoff-settingcorrespondingchangesinthefairvalueorcashflowsofthehedgeditem.Forcashflow

hedgesinvolvinginterestratecapsandcollars,thisanalysisalsoincludesconsiderationwhethercriticaltermsmatch,the

strikepriceofthehedgingoptionmatchesthespecifiedlevelbeyond(orwithin)whichtheentity’sexposureisbeing

hedged,thehedginginstrument’sinflows(outflows)atitsmaturitydatecompletelyoffsetthechangeinthehedged

transaction’scashflowsfortheriskbeinghedgedandthehedginginstrumentcanbeexercisedonlyonitscontractual

maturitydate.Foraqualifyingfairvaluehedge,changesinthevalueofthederivativesthathavebeenhighlyeffectiveas

hedgesarerecognizedincurrentperiodearningsalongwiththecorrespondingchangesinthefairvalueofthedesignated

hedgeditemattributabletotheriskbeinghedged.Foraqualifyingcashflowhedge,theportionofchangesinthefair

valueofthederivativesthathavebeenhighlyeffectivearerecognizedinothercomprehensiveincomeuntiltherelated

cashflowsfromthehedgeditemarerecognizedinearnings.Forqualifyingcashflowhedgesinvolvinginterestratecaps

andcollars,theinitialfairvalueofthepremiumpaidisallocatedandrecognizedinthesamefutureperiodthatthehedged

forecastedtransactionimpactsearnings.
Foreitherfairvaluehedgesorcashflowhedges,ineffectivenessmayberecognizedinnoninterestincometotheextentthat
changesinthevalueofthederivativeinstrumentsdonotperfectlyoffsetchangesinthevalueofthehedgeditems.Ifthehedge

ceasestobehighlyeffective,BB&Tdiscontinueshedgeaccountingandrecognizesthechangesinfairvalueincurrentperiod

earnings.Ifaderivativethatqualifiesasafairvalueorcashflowhedgeisterminatedorthedesignationremoved,therealizedor

thenunrealizedgainorlossisrecognizedintoincomeoverthelifeofthehedgeditem(fairvaluehedge)orperiodinwhichthe

hedgeditemaffectsearnings(cashflowhedge).Immediaterecognitioninearningsisrequireduponsaleorextinguishmentof

thehedgeditem(fairvaluehedge)orifitisprobablethatthehedgedcashflowswillnotoccur(cashflowhedge).
Derivativesusedtomanageeconomicrisknotdesignatedashedgesprimarilyrepresenteconomicriskmanagement
instrumentsofmortgageservicingrightsandmortgagebankingoperations,withgainsorlossesincludedinmortgage

bankingincome.Inconnectionwithitsmortgagebankingactivities,BB&Tentersintoloancommitmentstofund

residentialmortgageloansatspecifiedratesandforspecifiedperiodsoftime.TotheextentthatBB&T’sinterestratelock

commitmentsrelatetoloansthatwillbeheldforsaleuponfunding,theyarealsoaccountedforasderivatives,withgains

orlossesincludedinmortgagebankingincome.Gainsandlossesonotherderivativesusedtomanageeconomicriskare

primarilyassociatedwithclientderivativeactivityandincludedinotherincome.
PerShareData
Basicnetincomepercommonshareiscomputedbydividingnetincomeavailabletocommonshareholdersbythe
weightedaveragenumberofsharesofcommonstockoutstandingduringtheyearspresented.Dilutednetincomeper

commonshareiscomputedbydividingnetincomeavailabletocommonshareholdersbytheweightedaveragenumberof

sharesofcommonstock,commonstockequivalentsandotherpotentiallydilutivesecuritiesoutstanding.
GoodwillandOtherIntangibleAssets
Goodwillrepresentsthecostinexcessofthefairvalueofnetassetsacquired(includingidentifiableintangibles)in
transactionsaccountedforasacquisitions.BB&Tallocatesgoodwilltothereportingunit(s)thatreceivessignificant

benefitsfromtheacquisition.Goodwillisnotamortizedoveranestimatedusefullife,butratheristestedatleastannually

forimpairment.BB&Tperformsitsimpairmenttestinginthefourthquarterofeachyearandmorefrequentlyif

circumstancesexistthatindicateapossiblereductioninthefairvalueofthebusinessbelowitscarryingvalue.BB&T

measuresimpairmentusingthepresentvalueofestimatedfuturecashflows.Theanalysisisbaseduponavailable

informationregardingexpectedfuturecashflowsanddiscountrates.Discountratesarebaseduponthecostofcapital

specifictotheindustryinwhichthereportingunitoperates.Ifthecarryingvalueofthereportingunitexceedsitsfair

value,asecondanalysisisperformedtomeasurethefairvalueofallassetsandliabilities.If,basedonthesecondanalysis,

itisdeterminedthatthefairvalueoftheassetsandliabilitiesofthereportingunitislessthanthecarryingvalue,BB&T

wouldrecognizeimpairmentfortheexcessofcarryingvalueoverfairvalue.
99Coredepositandotherintangibleassetsincludepremiumspaidforacquisitionsofcoredeposits(“coredeposit
intangibles”)andotheridentifiableintangibleassets.Intangibleassetsotherthangoodwill,whicharedeterminedtohave

finitelives,areamortizedbasedupontheestimatedeconomicbenefitsreceived.
LoanSecuritizations
BB&Tentersintoloansecuritizationtransactionsrelatedtomostofitsfixed-rateconformingmortgageloans.In
connectionwiththesetransactions,loansareconvertedintomortgage-backedsecuritiesissuedprimarilybytheFederal

HomeLoanMortgageCorporation(“FreddieMac”),theFederalNationalMortgageAssociation(“FannieMae”)andthe

GovernmentNationalMortgageAssociation(“GinnieMae”),andaresubsequentlysoldtothirdpartyinvestors.BB&T

recordsloansecuritizationsasasalewhenthetransferredloansarelegallyisolatedfromitscreditorsandtheother

accountingcriteriaforasalearemet.Gainsorlossesrecordedonloansecuritizationsarebasedinpartonthenetcarrying

amountoftheloanssold,whichisallocatedbetweentheloanssoldandretainedinterestsbasedontheirrelativefair

valuesatthedateofsale.BB&Tgenerallyretainsthemortgageservicingonloanssold.Sincequotedmarketpricesare

nottypicallyavailable,BB&Testimatesthefairvalueoftheseretainedinterestsusingmodelingtechniquestodetermine

thenetpresentvalueofexpectedfuturecashflows.Suchmodelsincorporatemanagement’sbestestimatesofkey

variables,suchasprepaymentspeedsanddiscountratesthatwouldbeusedbymarketparticipantsbasedontherisks

involved.Gainsandlossesincurredonloanssoldtothirdpartyinvestorsareincludedinmortgagebankingincomeinthe

ConsolidatedStatementsofIncome.
BB&Talsoperiodicallysecuritizesmortgageloansthatitintendstoholdfortheforeseeablefutureandtransfersthe
resultingsecuritiestothesecuritiesavailableforsaleportfolio.Thisisgenerallyaccomplishedbyexchangingtheloans

formortgage-backedsecuritiesissuedprimarilybyFreddieMac.Sincethetransfersarenotconsideredasale,nogainor

lossisrecordedinconjunctionwiththesetransactions.
MortgageServicingRights
BB&Thastwoprimaryclassesofmortgageservicingrightsforwhichitseparatelymanagestheeconomicrisks:
residentialandcommercial.ResidentialmortgageservicingrightsarerecordedontheConsolidatedBalanceSheets

primarilyatfairvaluewithchangesinfairvaluerecordedasacomponentofmortgagebankingincome.Commercial

mortgageservicingrightsarerecordedasotherassetsontheConsolidatedBalanceSheetsatthelowerofcostormarket

andareamortizedinproportionto,andovertheestimatedperiod,thatnetservicingincomeisexpectedtobereceived

basedonprojectionsoftheamountandtimingofestimatedfuturenetcashflows.Theamountandtimingofestimated

futurenetcashflowsareupdatedbasedonactualresultsandupdatedprojections.BB&Tperiodicallyevaluatesits

commercialmortgageservicingrightsforimpairment.
Equity-BasedCompensation
BB&Tmaintainsvariousequity-basedcompensationplans.Theseplansprovideforthegrantingofstockoptions
(incentiveandnonqualified),stockappreciationrights,restrictedstock,restrictedstockunits,performanceunitsand

performancesharestoselectedBB&Temployeesanddirectors.BB&Tvaluesshare-basedawardsatthegrantdatefair

valueandrecognizestheexpenseovertherequisiteserviceperiodtakingintoaccountretirementeligibility.
ChangesinAccountingPrinciplesandEffectsofNewAccountingPronouncements
InFebruary2010,theFinancialAccountingStandardsBoard(“FASB”)issuednewguidanceimpacting
FairValue
MeasurementsandDisclosures
.ThenewguidancerequiresagrosspresentationofpurchasesandsalesofLevel3
activitiesandaddsanewrequirementtodisclosetransfersinandoutofLevel1andLevel2measurements.Theguidance

relatedtothetransfersbetweenLevel1andLevel2measurementswaseffectiveforBB&TonJanuary1,2010.The

guidancethatrequiresincreaseddisaggregationoftheLevel3activitieswaseffectiveforBB&TonJanuary1,2011.The

newdisclosuresrequiredbythisguidanceareincludedinNote18totheseconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
InJuly2010,theFASBissuednewguidanceimpacting
Receivables.Thenewguidancerequiresadditionaldisclosuresthatwill
allowuserstounderstandthenatureofcreditriskinherentinacompany’sloanportfolios,howthatriskisanalyzedandassessed

inarrivingattheallowanceforloanandleaselosses,andchangesandreasonsforthosechangesintheallowanceforloanand

leaselosses.ThenewdisclosuresrequiredbythisguidanceareincludedinNote4totheseconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
100InApril2011,theFASBissuednewguidanceimpacting
Receivables.Thenewguidanceamendedexistingguidancefor
assistingacreditorindeterminingwhetheraloanmodificationisatroubleddebtrestructuring.Theamendmentsclarify

theguidanceforacreditor’sevaluationofwhetherithasgrantedaconcessionandwhetheradebtorisexperiencing

financialdifficulties.ThisguidancewaseffectiveforinterimreportingperiodsthatbeganafterJune15,2011,andwas

appliedretrospectivelytothebeginningof2011.ThenewdisclosuresrequiredbythisguidanceareincludedinNote4to

theseconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
InMay2011,theFASBissuednewguidanceimpacting
FairValueMeasurementsandDisclosures
.Thenewguidance
createsauniformframeworkforapplyingfairvaluemeasurementprinciples.IteliminatesdifferencesbetweenGAAPand

InternationalFinancialReportingStandardsissuedbytheInternationalAccountingStandardsBoard.Newdisclosures

requiredbytheguidanceinclude:quantitativeinformationaboutthesignificantunobservableinputsusedforLevel3

measurements;aqualitativediscussionaboutthesensitivityofrecurringLevel3measurementstochangesinthe

unobservableinputsdisclosed,includingtheinterrelationshipbetweeninputs;andadescriptionofthecompany’s

valuationprocesses.ThisguidanceiseffectiveforinterimandannualperiodsbeginningafterDecember15,2011,andall

amendmentswillbeappliedprospectivelywithanychangesinmeasurementsrecognizedinincomeintheperiodof

adoption.BB&Tiscurrentlyevaluatingtheimpactthestandardwillhaveontheconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
InJune2011,theFASBissuednewguidanceimpacting
ComprehensiveIncome
.Thenewguidanceamendsdisclosure
requirementsforthepresentationofcomprehensiveincome.Theamendedguidanceeliminatestheoptiontopresent

componentsofothercomprehensiveincome(“OCI”)aspartofthestatementofchangesinshareholders’equity.All

changesinOCIwillbepresentedeitherinasinglecontinuousstatementofcomprehensiveincomeorintwoseparatebut

consecutivefinancialstatements.TheguidancedoesnotchangetheitemsthatmustbereportedinOCI.Thisguidanceis

effectiveforfiscalyearsandinterimreportingperiodswithinthoseyearsbeginningafterDecember15,2011withearly

adoptionpermitted.TheadoptionofthisguidancewillnotimpactBB&T’sconsolidatedfinancialposition,resultsof

operationsorcashflowsandwillonlyimpactthepresentationofOCIintheconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
InSeptember2011,theFASBissuednewguidanceimpacting
Intangibles.Thenewguidancepermitsanentitytofirst
assessqualitativefactorstodeterminewhetheritismorelikelythannotthatthefairvalueofareportingunitislessthan

itscarryingamount.Totheextentthatanentitydeterminesthatitisnotmorelikelythannotthatthefairvalueofa

reportingunitislessthanitscarryingamount,thenperformanceofthetwostepimpairmenttestisnotrequired.This

guidanceiseffectiveforannualandinterimgoodwillimpairmenttestsperformedforfiscalyearsbeginningafter

December15,2011withearlyadoptionpermitted.Theadoptionofthisguidanceisnotexpectedtobematerialto

BB&T’sconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
InDecember2011,theFASBissuednewguidanceimpactingthepresentationofcertainitemsonthe
BalanceSheet.
Thenewguidancerequiresanentitytodisclosebothgrossandnetinformationaboutbothinstrumentsandtransactionsthatare

eligibleforoffsetinthestatementoffinancialpositionandinstrumentsandtransactionssubjecttoanagreementsimilarto

amasternettingarrangement.ThisguidanceiseffectiveforannualperiodsbeginningonorafterJanuary1,2013and

interimperiodswithinthoseannualperiods.TheadoptionofthisguidancewillnotimpactBB&T’sconsolidatedfinancial

position,resultsofoperationsorcashflows,butmayresultincertainadditionaldisclosures.
101NOTE2.Securities
Theamortizedcost,grossunrealizedgainsandlossesandapproximatefairvaluesofsecuritiesavailableforsaleandheld
tomaturitywereasfollows:
December31,2011
AmortizedCostGrossUnrealized
FairValueGainsLosses(Dollarsinmillions)
Securitiesavailableforsale:
U.S.government-sponsoredentities(“GSE”)$305$1$—$306

Mortgage-backedsecuritiesissuedbyGSE17,940199718,132

Statesandpoliticalsubdivisions1,977911451,923

Non-agencymortgage-backedsecurities423—55368

Othersecurities7——7

Coveredsecurities1,24034361,577
Totalsecuritiesavailableforsale$21,892$634$213$22,313
December31,2011
AmortizedCostGrossUnrealized
FairValueGainsLosses(Dollarsinmillions)
Securitiesheldtomaturity:
GSEsecurities$500$—$—$500

Mortgage-backedsecuritiesissuedbyGSE13,028322313,037

Statesandpoliticalsubdivisions35—233

Othersecurities53114528
Totalsecuritiesheldtomaturity$14,094$33$29$14,098
December31,2010
AmortizedCostGrossUnrealized
FairValueGainsLosses(Dollarsinmillions)
Securitiesavailableforsale:
GSEsecurities$102$1$—$103

Mortgage-backedsecuritiesissuedbyGSE18,6634236118,344

Statesandpoliticalsubdivisions2,051191611,909

Non-agencymortgage-backedsecurities635—120515

Othersecurities734272759

Coveredsecurities1,23430721,539
Totalsecuritiesavailableforsale$23,419$396$646$23,169
Duringthefirstquarterof2011,BB&Treclassifiedapproximately$8.3billionofsecuritiesavailableforsaletosecurities

heldtomaturity.Managementdeterminedthatithadboththepositiveintentandabilitytoholdthesesecuritiesto

maturity.Thereclassificationofthesesecuritieswasaccountedforatfairvalue.Onthedateoftransfer,thedifference

betweentheparvalueandthefairvalueofthesesecuritiesresultedinapremiumordiscountthatisamortizedasayield

adjustmenttointerestincomeandisamortizedovertheremaininglifeofthesecuritiesasayieldadjustmenttointerest

incomeusingtheinterestmethod.Therewerenogainsorlossesrecognizedasaresultofthistransfer.
AsofDecember31,2011,thefairvalueofcoveredsecuritiesincluded$1.3billionofnon-agencymortgage-backed
securitiesand$326millionofmunicipalsecurities.AsofDecember31,2010,thefairvalueofcoveredsecuritiesincluded

$1.2billionofnon-agencymortgage-backedsecuritiesand$304millionofmunicipalsecurities.Allcoveredsecurities

wereacquiredfromColonialBank(“Colonial”)andarecoveredbyoneoftheFDIClosssharingagreements.BB&Tis

restrictedfromsellingthesesecuritieswithoutpriorapprovalfromtheFDIC.
102AtDecember31,2011and2010,securitieswithcarryingvaluesofapproximately$15.5billionand$19.3billion,
respectively,werepledgedtosecuremunicipaldeposits,securitiessoldunderagreementstorepurchase,otherborrowings,

andforotherpurposesasrequiredorpermittedbylaw.
BB&Thadcertaininvestmentsinmarketabledebtsecuritiesandmortgage-backedsecuritiesissuedbyFannieMaeand
FreddieMacthatexceededtenpercentofshareholders’equityatDecember31,2011.TheFannieMaeinvestmentshad

totalamortizedcostandfairvalueof$10.3billionatDecember31,2011,whileFreddieMacinvestmentshadtotal

amortizedcostandfairvaluesof$10.2billionand$10.3billion,respectively.Thesesecuritiesarecarriedatamortized

costintheheldtomaturityportfolioorfairvalueintheavailableforsaleportfolio.
AtDecember31,2011and2010,non-agencymortgage-backedsecuritiesprimarilyconsistedofresidentialmortgage-
backedsecurities.
Thegrossrealizedgainsandlossesandother-than-temporaryimpairmentsrecognizedinincomeduringtheyearsended
December31,2011,2010and2009arereflectedinthefollowingtable:
YearsEndedDecember31,
201120102009(Dollarsinmillions)
Grossgains$175$607$241

Grosslosses(1)(22)(1)
Netrealizedgains(losses)174585240
OTTIrecognizedonnon-agencymortgage-backedsecurities:
OTTIonnon-agencymortgage-backedsecurities(22)(117)(133)

Non-creditportionrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincome(1)(90)86131
OTTIonnon-agencymortgage-backedsecuritiesrecognizedinnet
income(112)(31)(2)
OTTIonequityandothersecuritiesrecognizedinnetincome——(39)
TotalOTTIrecognizedinnetincome(112)(31)(41)
Netsecuritiesgains(losses)$62$554$199
(1)Anegativebalanceistheresultofadditionalcreditlossescurrentlyrecognizedinearningsthatwerepreviously
recognizedinothercomprehensiveincome.
ThefollowingtablereflectsactivityduringtheyearsendedDecember31,2011and2010relatedtocreditlossesonother-
than-temporarilyimpairednon-agencymortgage-backedsecuritieswhereaportionoftheunrealizedlosswasrecognized

inothercomprehensiveincome:
YearsEndedDecember31,
20112010(Dollarsinmillions)
Balanceatbeginningofperiod$30$2
Creditlossesonsecuritiesnotpreviouslyconsideredother-than-temporarily
impaired13CreditlossesonsecuritiesforwhichOTTIwaspreviouslyrecognized11128

Reductionsforsecuritiessold/settledduringtheperiod(13)(3)
Balanceatendofperiod$129$30
TheamortizedcostandestimatedfairvalueofthedebtsecuritiesportfolioatDecember31,2011,bycontractualmaturity,

areshownintheaccompanyingtable.Theexpectedlifeofmortgage-backedsecuritieswilldifferfromcontractual

maturitiesbecauseborrowersmayhavetherighttocallorprepaytheunderlyingmortgageloanswithorwithoutcallor

prepaymentpenalties.Forpurposesofthematuritytable,mortgage-backedsecurities,whicharenotdueatasingle

maturitydate,havebeenincludedinmaturitygroupingsbasedonthecontractualmaturity.
103December31,2011
AvailableforSale
HeldtoMaturity
AmortizedCostFairValueAmortizedCostFairValue(Dollarsinmillions)
Dueinoneyearorless$181$181$—$—
Dueafteroneyearthroughfiveyears150152——

Dueafterfiveyearsthroughtenyears618653500500

Dueaftertenyears20,93721,32113,59413,598
Totaldebtsecurities21,88622,30714,09414,098

Totalsecuritieswithnostatedmaturity66——
Totalsecurities$21,892$22,313$14,094$14,098
ThefollowingtablesreflectthegrossunrealizedlossesandfairvaluesofBB&T’sinvestments,aggregatedbyinvestment
categoryandlengthoftimethatindividualsecuritieshavebeeninacontinuousunrealizedlossposition,atthedatespresented:
December31,2011
Lessthan12months
12monthsormore
TotalFairValueUnrealizedLossesFairValueUnrealizedLossesFairValueUnrealizedLosses(Dollarsinmillions)
Securitiesavailableforsale:
GSEsecurities$24$—$—$—$24$—

Mortgage-backedsecuritiesissuedby
GSE3,0987——3,0987
Statesandpoliticalsubdivisions4536826577718145

Non-agencymortgage-backed
securities——3685536855
Coveredsecurities296——296
Total$3,604$81$633$132$4,237$213
December31,2011
Lessthan12months
12monthsormore
TotalFairValueUnrealizedLossesFairValueUnrealizedLossesFairValueUnrealizedLosses(Dollarsinmillions)
Securitiesheldtomaturity:
GSEsecurities$250$—$—$—$250$—

Mortgage-backedsecuritiesissuedby
GSE7,77023——7,77023
Statesandpoliticalsubdivisions332——332

Othersecurities2074——2074
Total$8,260$29$—$—$8,260$29
December31,2010
Lessthan12months
12monthsormore
TotalFairValueUnrealizedLossesFairValueUnrealizedLossesFairValueUnrealizedLosses(Dollarsinmillions)
Securitiesavailableforsale:
GSEsecurities$50$—$—$—$50$—

Mortgage-backedsecuritiesissued
byGSE15,438361——15,438361
Statesandpoliticalsubdivisions694217351401,429161

Non-agencymortgage-backed
securities——506120506120
Othersecurities53522—5372

Coveredsecurities792——792
Total$16,796$386$1,243$260$18,039$646
104BB&Tconductsperiodicreviewstoidentifyandevaluateeachinvestmentthathasanunrealizedlossforother-than-
temporaryimpairment.Anunrealizedlossexistswhenthecurrentfairvalueofanindividualsecurityislessthanits

amortizedcostbasis.Unrealizedlossesthataredeterminedtobetemporaryinnaturearerecorded,netoftax,in

accumulatedothercomprehensiveincomeforavailable-for-salesecurities.
Factorsconsideredindeterminingwhetheralossistemporaryinclude:
•Thefinancialconditionandnear-termprospectsoftheissuer,includinganyspecificeventsthatmayinfluence
theoperationsoftheissuer;
•BB&T’sintenttosellandwhetheritismorelikelythannotthattheCompanywillberequiredtosellthesedebt
securitiesbeforetheanticipatedrecoveryoftheamortizedcostbasis;
•Thelengthoftimeandtheextenttowhichthemarketvaluehasbeenlessthancost;

•Whetherthedeclineinfairvalueisattributabletospecificconditions,suchasconditionsinanindustryorina
geographicarea;
•Whetheradebtsecurityhasbeendowngradedbyaratingagency;

•Whetherthefinancialconditionoftheissuerhasdeteriorated;

•Theseniorityofthesecurity;

•Whetherdividendshavebeenreducedoreliminated,orscheduledinterestpaymentsondebtsecuritieshavenot
beenmade;and
•Anyotherrelevantavailableinformation.
Ifanunrealizedlossisconsideredother-than-temporary,thecreditcomponentoftheunrealizedlossisrecognizedinearnings
andthenon-creditcomponentisrecognizedinaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome,totheextentthatBB&Tdoesnot

intendtosellthesecurityanditismorelikelythannotthatBB&Twillnotberequiredtosellthesecuritypriortorecovery.
BB&Tevaluatescreditimpairmentrelatedtomortgage-backedsecuritiesthroughtheuseofcashflowmodeling.Thesemodels
giveconsiderationtolong-termmacroeconomicfactorsappliedtocurrentsecuritydefaultrates,prepaymentratesandrecovery

ratesandsecurity-levelperformance.During2011,OTTIrecognitionwasdueprimarilytotrendsintheunderlyingloan

delinquenciesandrelatedcollateralhomepriceindices.
During2011,BB&Trealizedprincipallossesoncertainother-than-temporarilyimpairedsecurities.Theserealizedlosses
wereafactorinevaluatingthelevelofOTTInecessarytoaddressfutureprojectedlosses.
AtDecember31,2011,BB&Theldcertaininvestmentsecuritieshavingcontinuousunrealizedlosspositionsformorethan12
months.Thevastmajorityoftheselosseswereinnon-agencymortgage-backedandmunicipalsecurities.AtDecember31,

2011,alloftheavailable-for-saledebtsecuritiesinanunrealizedlosspositionformorethan12months,excludingthosecovered

byFDIClosssharingagreements,wereinvestmentgradewiththeexceptionoftwomunicipalbondswithanamortizedcostof

$8millionandtennon-agencymortgage-backedsecuritieswithanadjustedamortizedcostof$423million.
Allofthenon-investmentgradesecuritiesreferencedabovewereinitiallyinvestmentgradeandhavebeendowngradedsince
purchase.BasedonitsevaluationatDecember31,2011,BB&Tdeterminedthatcertainofthenon-investmentgrade

non-agencymortgage-backedsecuritieshadcreditlossesevidentandrecognizedOTTIrelatedtothesesecurities.At

December31,2011,thetotalunrealizedlossonthesenon-investmentgradesecuritieswas$55million.
Thefollowingtablepresentsnon-investmentgradesecuritieswithsignificantunrealizedlossesthatarenotcoveredbya
losssharingarrangementandthecreditlosscomponentofOTTIrecognizedtodate:
December31,2011
AmortizedCostCumulativeCreditLoss
RecognizedAdjustedAmortizedCost
FairValueUnrealizedLoss(Dollarsinmillions)
Security:RMBS1$133$(34)$99$88$(11)

RMBS2102(16)8673(13)
105BB&T’sevaluationoftheotherdebtsecuritieswithcontinuousunrealizedlossesindicatedthattherewerenocreditlosses
evident.Furthermore,asofthedateoftheevaluation,BB&Tdidnotintendtosell,anditwasmorelikelythannotthatthe

Companywouldnotberequiredtosell,thesedebtsecuritiesbeforetheanticipatedrecoveryoftheamortizedcostbasis.In

makingthisdetermination,BB&Tconsidersitsexpectedliquidityandcapitalneeds,includingitsasset/liability

managementneeds,forecasts,strategiesandotherrelevantinformation.
NOTE3.LoansandLeases
ThefollowingtableprovidesabreakdownofBB&T’sloanportfolioasofDecember31,2011and2010:
December31,
20112010(Dollarsinmillions)
Loansandleases,netofunearnedincome:
Commercial:Commercialandindustrial$36,415$34,050

Commercialrealestate-other10,68911,439

Commercialrealestate-residentialADC(1)2,0613,397
Directretaillending14,46713,749

Salesfinance7,4017,050

Revolvingcredit2,2122,127

Residentialmortgage20,58117,550

Otherlendingsubsidiaries8,7377,953

Otheracquired3958
Totalloansandleasesheldforinvestment(excludingcoveredloans)102,60297,373
Covered4,8676,194
Totalloansandleasesheldforinvestment107,469103,567
Loansheldforsale3,7363,697
Totalloansandleases$111,205$107,264
(1)Commercialrealestate-residentialADCrepresentsresidentialacquisition,developmentandconstructionloans.
Unearnedincomeandnetdeferredloanfeesandcoststotaled$374millionand$570millionatDecember31,2011and
2010,respectively.CoveredloansrepresentloansacquiredfromtheFDICsubjecttooneofthelosssharingagreements.

OtheracquiredloansrepresentconsumerloansacquiredfromtheFDICthatarenotsubjecttooneofthelosssharing

agreements.BB&Thad$72.3billioninloanssecuredbyrealestateatDecember31,2011.However,theseloanswerenotconcentratedin
anyspecificmarketorgeographicareaotherthanBranchBank’sprimarymarkets.Certainloanshavebeenpledgedas

collateraltotheFederalHomeLoanBank(“FHLB”)andtotheFederalReserveBank.Thecollateralpledgedisusedto

secureFHLBadvances,lettersofcreditissuedbytheFHLB,andprovideadditionalborrowingcapacity.
Thefollowingtablereflectsthecarryingamountofallpurchasedimpairedandnonimpairedloans,andtherelated
allowance,asofDecember31,2011and2010:
December31,2011
December31,2010
PurchasedImpairedLoansPurchasedNonimpairedLoansTotalPurchasedImpairedLoansPurchasedNonimpairedLoansTotal(Dollarsinmillions)
Residentialmortgage$647$617$1,264$733$713$1,446
Commercialrealestate1,4071,5973,0042,0311,9824,013

Commercial6853159991644735
Totalcovered2,1222,7454,8672,8553,3396,194
Otheracquired2373935558
Total2,1242,7824,9062,8583,3946,252
Allowanceforloanlosses(113)(36)(149)(90)(54)(144)
Net$2,011$2,746$4,757$2,768$3,340$6,108
106Changesinthecarryingamountandaccretableyieldforpurchasedimpairedandnonimpairedloanswereasfollowsfor
theyearsendedDecember31,2011and2010:
December31,2011
December31,2010
PurchasedImpaired
PurchasedNonimpaired
PurchasedImpaired
PurchasedNonimpaired
AccretableYieldCarryingAmountofLoans
AccretableYieldCarryingAmountofLoans
AccretableYieldCarryingAmountofLoans
AccretableYieldCarryingAmountofLoans
(Dollarsinmillions)
Balanceatbeginningofperiod$835$2,858$1,611$3,394$889$3,666$1,301$4,476
Additions————————
Accretion(359)359(706)706(459)459(483)483

Reclassificationsfrom
nonaccretablebalance,

net45—334—405—793—
Paymentsreceived,net—(1,093)—(1,318)—(1,267)—(1,565)
Balanceatendofperiod$521$2,124$1,239$2,782$835$2,858$1,611$3,394
TheoutstandingunpaidprincipalbalanceforallpurchasedimpairedloansasofDecember31,2011and2010was

$3.3billionand$4.7billion,respectively.Theoutstandingunpaidprincipalbalanceforallpurchasednonimpairedloans

asofDecember31,2011and2010was$3.9billionand$5.2billion,respectively.
AtDecember31,2011and2010,noneofthepurchasedloanswereclassifiedasnonperformingassets.Therefore,interest
income,throughaccretionofthedifferencebetweenthecarryingamountoftheloansandtheexpectedcashflows,is

beingrecognizedonallpurchasedloans.Theallowanceforloanlossesrelatedtothepurchasedloansresultsfrom

decreasedexpectationsoffuturecashflowsduetoincreasedcreditlossesforcertainacquiredloanpools.
ThefollowingtableprovidesasummaryofBB&T’snonperformingassetsandloans90daysormorepastdueandstill
accruingasofDecember31,2011and2010:
December31,
20112010(Dollarsinmillions)
Nonaccrualloansandleases:
Heldforinvestment(1)$1,872$2,149

Heldforsale
—521
Totalnonaccrualloansandleases(1)1,8722,670
Foreclosedrealestate(2)5361,259
Otherforeclosedproperty4242
Totalforeclosedproperty(2)5781,301
Totalnonperformingassets(excludingcoveredassets)(1)(2)$2,450$3,971
Loans90daysormorepastdueandstillaccruing(excludingcoveredloans)(3)(4)(5)$202$295
(1)Coveredandotheracquiredloansareconsideredtobeperformingduetotheapplicationoftheaccretionmethod.
Coveredloansthatarecontractually90daysormorepastdueandstillaccruingarenotedbelow.
(2)Excludesforeclosedrealestatetotaling$378millionand$313millionasofDecember31,2011andDecember31,
2010,respectively,thatiscoveredbyFDIClosssharingagreements.
(3)ExcludesmortgageloansguaranteedbyGNMAthatBB&Tdoesnothavetheobligationtorepurchasetotaling$426
millionand$425millionasofDecember31,2011andDecember31,2010,respectively.
(4)Excludesloans90daysormorepastduethatarecoveredbyFDIClosssharingagreementstotaling$736millionand
$1.1billionasofDecember31,2011andDecember31,2010,respectively.
(5)Excludesmortgageloans90daysormorepastduethataregovernmentguaranteedtotaling$206millionand$153
millionasofDecember31,2011andDecember31,2010,respectively.
107Thefollowingtableprovidesasummaryofloansthatcontinuetoaccrueinterestunderrestructuredterms(“performing
restructurings”)andrestructuredloansthathavebeenplacedinnonaccrualstatus(“nonperformingrestructurings”)asof

December31,2011and2010:
December31,
20112010(Dollarsinmillions)
Performingrestructurings:
Commercial:Commercialandindustrial$74$205

Commercialrealestate-other117280

Commercialrealestate-residentialADC44172
Directretaillending146141

Salesfinance85

Revolvingcredit6262

Residentialmortgage(1)(2)608585

Otherlendingsubsidiaries5026
Totalperformingrestructurings(1)(2)1,1091,476
Nonperformingrestructurings(3)(4)280479
Totalrestructurings(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)$1,389$1,955
(1)Excludesrestructuredmortgageloansheldforinvestmentthataregovernmentguaranteedtotaling$232millionand
$115millionatDecember31,2011andDecember31,2010,respectively.
(2)Excludesrestructuredmortgageloansheldforsalethataregovernmentguaranteedtotaling$4millionand$14
millionatDecember31,2011andDecember31,2010,respectively.
(3)Nonperformingrestructuringsareincludedinnonaccrualloandisclosures.

(4)Includesapproximately$110millionofnonperformingrestructuringsincludedinloansheldforsaleatDecember31,
2010.(5)Allrestructuringsareconsideredimpaired.Theallowanceforloanandleaselossesattributabletotheserestructured
loanstotaled$266millionand$324millionatDecember31,2011andDecember31,2010,respectively.
BB&Thadcommitmentstotaling$32millionand$64millionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively,tolend
additionalfundstoclientswithloanswhosetermshavebeenmodifiedinrestructurings.
Thegrossadditionalinterestincomethatwouldhavebeenearnediftheloansandleasesclassifiedasnonaccrualhad
performedinaccordancewiththeoriginaltermswasapproximately$93million,$131millionand$115millionin2011,

2010and2009,respectively.Thegrossadditionalinterestincomethatwouldhavebeenearnedin2011,2010and2009

hadperformingrestructuringsperformedinaccordancewiththeoriginaltermsisimmaterial.
108NOTE4.AllowanceforCreditLosses
AnanalysisoftheallowanceforcreditlossesfortheyearendedDecember31,2011ispresentedinthefollowingtable:
YearEndedDecember31,2011
BeginningBalanceCharge-OffsRecoveriesProvisionEndingBalance(Dollarsinmillions)
Commercial:Commercialandindustrial$621$(323)$28$107$433

Commercialrealestate-other446(273)18143334

Commercialrealestate-residentialADC469(302)2594286

Otherlendingsubsidiaries21(9)3(4)11
Retail:Directretaillending246(276)37225232

Revolvingcredit109(95)1979112

Residentialmortgage298(269)5331365

Salesfinance47(32)91438

Otherlendingsubsidiaries177(181)22168186
Coveredandotheracquired144(66)—71149

Unallocated130——(20)110
Allowanceforloanandleaselosses2,708(1,826)1661,2082,256
Reserveforunfundedlendingcommitments47——(18)29
Allowanceforcreditlosses$2,755$(1,826)$166$1,190$2,285
Ananalysisoftheallowanceforcreditlossesduring2010and2009ispresentedinthefollowingtable:
YearsEndedDecember31,
20102009(Dollarsinmillions)
Beginningbalance$2,672$1,607
Provisionforcreditlosses2,6382,811

Loansandleasescharged-off(2,658)(1,862)

Recoveriesofpreviouscharge-offs13089
Netloansandleasescharged-off(2,528)(1,773)
Otherchanges,net(27)27
Endingbalance$2,755$2,672
Allowanceforloanandleaselosses$2,708$2,600

Reserveforunfundedlendingcommitments4772
Allowanceforcreditlosses$2,755$2,672
109Thefollowingtablesprovideabreakdownoftheallowanceforloanandleaselossesandtherecordedinvestmentinloans
basedonthemethodfordeterminingtheallowanceasofDecember31,2011and2010:
December31,2011
AllowanceforLoanandLeaseLosses
IndividuallyEvaluatedforImpairmentCollectivelyEvaluatedforImpairmentLoansAcquiredWithDeterioratedCreditQualityTotal(Dollarsinmillions)
Commercial:Commercialandindustrial$77$356$—$433

Commercialrealestate-other69265—334

Commercialrealestate-residentialADC50236—286

Otherlendingsubsidiaries110—11
Retail:Directretaillending35197—232

Revolvingcredit2785—112

Residentialmortgage152213—365

Salesfinance137—38

Otherlendingsubsidiaries20166—186
Coveredandotheracquired—36113149

Unallocated—110—110
Total$432$1,711$113$2,256
December31,2011
LoansandLeases
IndividuallyEvaluatedforImpairmentCollectivelyEvaluatedforImpairmentLoansAcquiredWithDeterioratedCreditQualityTotal(Dollarsinmillions)
Commercial:Commercialandindustrial$656$35,759$—$36,415

Commercialrealestate-other51110,178—10,689

Commercialrealestate-residentialADC4201,641—2,061

Otherlendingsubsidiaries53,621—3,626
Retail:Directretaillending16514,302—14,467

Revolvingcredit622,150—2,212

Residentialmortgage93119,650—20,581

Salesfinance107,391—7,401

Otherlendingsubsidiaries495,062—5,111
Coveredandotheracquired—2,7822,1244,906
Total$2,809$102,536$2,124$107,469
110December31,2010
AllowanceforLoanandLeaseLosses
IndividuallyEvaluatedforImpairmentCollectivelyEvaluatedforImpairmentLoansAcquiredWithDeterioratedCreditQualityTotal(Dollarsinmillions)
Commercial:Commercialandindustrial$96$525$—$621

Commercialrealestate-other63383—446

Commercialrealestate-residentialADC75394—469

Otherlendingsubsidiaries120—21
Retail:Directretaillending26220—246

Revolvingcredit2584—109

Residentialmortgage167131—298

Salesfinance146—47

Otherlendingsubsidiaries2175—177
Coveredandotheracquired—5490144

Unallocated—130—130
Total$456$2,162$90$2,708
December31,2010
LoansandLeases
IndividuallyEvaluatedforImpairmentCollectivelyEvaluatedforImpairmentLoansAcquiredWithDeterioratedCreditQualityTotal(Dollarsinmillions)
Commercial:Commercialandindustrial$708$33,342$—$34,050

Commercialrealestate-other69110,748—11,439

Commercialrealestate-residentialADC6842,713—3,397

Otherlendingsubsidiaries43,399—3,403
Retail:Directretaillending17713,572—13,749

Revolvingcredit622,065—2,127

Residentialmortgage80316,747—17,550

Salesfinance57,045—7,050

Otherlendingsubsidiaries244,526—4,550
Coveredandotheracquired—3,3942,8586,252
Total$3,158$97,551$2,858$103,567
BB&Tmonitorsthecreditqualityofitscommercialportfoliosegmentusinginternalriskratings.Theseriskratingsarebased
onestablishedregulatoryguidance.LoanswithaPassratingrepresentthosenotconsideredasaproblemcredit.Special

mentionloansarethosethathaveapotentialweaknessdeservingmanagement’scloseattention.Substandardloansarethose

whereawell-definedweaknesshasbeenidentifiedthatmayputfullcollectionofcontractualcashflowsatrisk.Substandard

loansareplacedinnonaccrualstatuswhenBB&Tbelievesitisnolongerprobableitwillcollectallcontractualcashflows.
BB&Tassignsaninternalriskratingatloanoriginationandreviewstherelationshipagainonanannualbasisoratany
pointmanagementbecomesawareofinformationaffectingtheborrower’sabilitytofulfilltheirobligations.
111BB&Tmonitorsthecreditqualityofitsretailportfoliosegmentbasedprimarilyondelinquencystatus,whichisthe
primaryfactorconsideredindeterminingwhetheraretailloanshouldbeclassifiedasnonaccrual.
Thefollowingtablesillustratethecreditqualityindicatorsassociatedwithloansandleasesheldforinvestment.Covered
andotheracquiredloansareexcludedfromthisanalysisbecausetheirrelatedallowanceisdeterminedbyloanpool

performanceduetotheapplicationoftheaccretionmethod.
December31,2011
Commercial&Industrial
CommercialRealEstate-
OtherCommercialRealEstate-
ResidentialADCOtherLendingSubsidiaries(Dollarsinmillions)
Commercial:Pass$33,497$8,568$1,085$3,578

Specialmention488234605

Substandard-performing1,8481,49354035

Nonperforming5823943768
Total$36,415$10,689$2,061$3,626
December31,2011
DirectRetail
LendingRevolvingCreditResidentialMortgageSalesFinanceOtherLending
Subsidiaries(Dollarsinmillions)
Retail:Performing$14,325$2,212$20,273$7,394$5,056

Nonperforming142—308755
Total$14,467$2,212$20,581$7,401$5,111
December31,2010
Commercial&Industrial
CommercialRealEstate-
OtherCommercialRealEstate-
ResidentialADCOtherLendingSubsidiaries(Dollarsinmillions)
Commercial:Pass$30,774$9,095$1,587$3,348

Specialmention55430610830

Substandard-performing2,2141,6331,18914

Nonperforming50840551311
Total(1)$34,050$11,439$3,397$3,403
December31,2010
DirectRetail
LendingRevolvingCreditResidentialMortgageSalesFinanceOtherLending
Subsidiaries(Dollarsinmillions)
Retail:Performing$13,558$2,127$17,084$7,044$4,501

Nonperforming191—466649
Total$13,749$2,127$17,550$7,050$4,550
(1)Excludesnonperformingcommercialloansheldforsaleof$521millionasofDecember31,2010.
112ThefollowingtablesrepresentaginganalysesofBB&T’spastdueloansandleasesheldforinvestmentasof
December31,2011and2010.Coveredloanshavebeenexcludedfromthisaginganalysisbecausetheyarecoveredby

FDIClosssharingagreements,andtheirrelatedallowanceisdeterminedbyloanpoolperformanceduetotheapplication

oftheaccretionmethod.
December31,2011
AccruingLoansandLeases
Current30-89Days
PastDue
90DaysOr
MorePast
DueNonaccrualLoansAnd
LeasesTotalLoansAnd
Leases,Excluding
CoveredLoans
(Dollarsinmillions)
Commercial:Commercialandindustrial$35,746$85$2$582$36,415

Commercialrealestate-other10,27322—39410,689

Commercialrealestate-residentialADC1,67114—3762,061

Otherlendingsubsidiaries3,58925483,626
Retail:Directretaillending14,1091615514214,467

Revolvingcredit2,1732217—2,212

Residentialmortgage(2)19,39357031030820,581

Salesfinance7,301751877,401

Otherlendingsubsidiaries4,8072481555,111
Otheracquired3711—39
Total(2)$99,099$1,223$408$1,872$102,602
December31,2010
AccruingLoansandLeases
Current30-89Days
PastDue
90DaysOr
MorePast
DueNonaccrualLoansAnd
Leases(1)
TotalLoansAnd
Leases,Excluding
CoveredLoans
(Dollarsinmillions)
Commercial:Commercialandindustrial$33,371$163$8$508$34,050

Commercialrealestate-other10,96268440511,439

Commercialrealestate-residentialADC2,7928485133,397

Otherlendingsubsidiaries3,358295113,403
Retail:Directretaillending13,2931897619113,749

Revolvingcredit2,0792820—2,127

Residentialmortgage(2)16,17361529646617,550

Salesfinance6,922952767,050

Otherlendingsubsidiaries4,2812191494,550
Otheracquired5413—58
Total(2)$93,285$1,491$448$2,149$97,373
(1)Excludesnonperformingcommercialloansheldforsaleof$521millionasofDecember31,2010.
(2)Residentialmortgageloansinclude$91millionand$83millioningovernmentguaranteedloans30-89dayspastdue,
and$206millionand$153millioningovernmentguaranteedloans90daysormorepastdueasofDecember31,

2011andDecember31,2010,respectively.
113ThefollowingtablessetforthcertaininformationregardingBB&T’simpairedloans,excludingacquiredimpairedloans
andloansheldforsale,thatwereevaluatedforspecificreservesasofDecember31,2011and2010.Theaveragebalance

ofimpairedloansandtheinterestincomerecognizedwhileonimpairedstatusarereportedfortheyearended

December31,2011.
December31,2011
RecordedInvestmentUnpaidPrincipalBalanceRelatedAllowanceAverageRecordedInvestmentInterestIncomeRecognized(Dollarsinmillions)
WithNoRelatedAllowanceRecorded:
Commercial:Commercialandindustrial$114$196$—$102$—

Commercialrealestate-other102163—941

Commercialrealestate-residentialADC153289—145—

Otherlendingsubsidiaries—————
Retail:Directretaillending1974—231

Residentialmortgage(1)4685—552

Salesfinance11—1—

Otherlendingsubsidiaries24—3—
WithAnAllowanceRecorded:
Commercial:Commercialandindustrial542552773001

Commercialrealestate-other409433692785

Commercialrealestate-residentialADC267298501641

Otherlendingsubsidiaries5515—
Retail:Directretaillending146153351288

Revolvingcredit626127613

Residentialmortgage(1)65367412556226

Salesfinance91016—

Otherlendingsubsidiaries475020312
Total(1)$2,577$3,048$405$1,958$50
114December31,2010
RecordedInvestmentUnpaidPrincipalBalanceRelatedAllowance(Dollarsinmillions)
WithNoRelatedAllowanceRecorded:
Commercial:Commercialandindustrial$196$267$—

Commercialrealestate-other175246—

Commercialrealestate-residentialADC200300—
Retail:Directretaillending2269—

Residentialmortgage(1)2550—
WithAnAllowanceRecorded:
Commercial:Commercialandindustrial51253496

Commercialrealestate-other51656563

Commercialrealestate-residentialADC48455675

Otherlendingsubsidiaries441
Retail:Directretaillending15516126

Revolvingcredit626125

Residentialmortgage(1)663690153

Salesfinance551

Otherlendingsubsidiaries24242
Total(1)$3,043$3,532$442
(1)Residentialmortgageloansexclude$232millionand$115millioningovernmentguaranteedloansandrelated
allowanceof$27millionand$14millionasofDecember31,2011andDecember31,2010,respectively.
Thefollowingtableprovidesasummaryoftheprimaryreasonloanmodificationswereclassifiedasrestructuringsand
theirestimatedimpactontheallowanceforloanandleaselossesduringtheyearendedDecember31,2011:
YearEndedDecember31,2011
Typesof
Modifications(1)
IncreaseTo
Rate(2)
StructureAllowance(Dollarsinmillions)
Commercial:Commercialandindustrial$29$68$5

Commercialrealestate-other56588

Commercialrealestate-residentialADC294710

Otherlendingsubsidiaries11—
Retail:Directretaillending5159

Revolvingcredit40—8

Residentialmortgage1423517

Salesfinance551

Otherlendingsubsidiaries37715
(1)Includesmodificationsmadetoexistingrestructurings,aswellasnewmodificationsthatareconsideredrestructurings.
Balancesrepresenttherecordedinvestmentasoftheendoftheperiodinwhichthemodificationwasmade.
(2)Includesrestructuringsmadewithabelowmarketinterestratethatalsoincludesamodificationofloanstructure.
Charge-offsrecordedatthemodificationdatewere$47millionfortheyearendedDecember31,2011.Modifications
madetoexistingrestructuringsinthecommercialportfoliosegmentapproximated25%oftotalcommercialrestructurings

fortheyearendedDecember31,2011.Theforgivenessofprincipalorinterestforrestructuringsrecordedduringtheyear

endedDecember31,2011wasimmaterial.
115Thefollowingtablesummarizesthepre-defaultbalanceformodificationsthatexperiencedapaymentdefaultduringthe
yearendedDecember31,2011,thathadbeenclassifiedasrestructuringsduringtheprevious12months.BB&Tdefines

paymentdefaultasmovementoftherestructuringtononaccrualstatus,foreclosureorcharge-off,whicheveroccursfirst.
YearEnded
December31,2011
(Dollarsinmillions)
Commercial:Commercialandindustrial$39

Commercialrealestate-other92

Commercialrealestate-residentialADC80

Otherlendingsubsidiaries—
Retail:Directretaillending
16Revolvingcredit
15Residentialmortgage
31Salesfinance
2Otherlendingsubsidiaries5
Ifarestructuringsubsequentlydefaults,BB&Tevaluatestherestructuringforpossibleimpairment.Asaresult,therelated
allowancemaybeincreasedorcharge-offsmaybetakentoreducethecarryingvalueoftheloan.
NOTE5.PremisesandEquipment
Asummaryofpremisesandequipmentispresentedintheaccompanyingtable:
December31,
20112010(Dollarsinmillions)
Landandlandimprovements$508$495
Buildingsandbuildingimprovements1,2201,180

Furnitureandequipment1,1321,117

Leaseholdimprovements521499

Constructioninprogress3722

Capitalizedleasesonpremisesandequipment5241
Total3,4703,354
Less-accumulateddepreciationandamortization(1,615)(1,514)
Netpremisesandequipment$1,855$1,840
Usefullivesforpremisesandequipmentareasfollows:buildingsandbuildingimprovements—40years;furnitureand

equipment—5to10years;leaseholdimprovements—estimatedusefullifeorleaseterm,includingcertainrenewalswhich

weredeemedprobableatleaseinception,whicheverisless;andcapitalizedleasesonpremisesandequipment—estimated

usefullifeorremainingtermoftenantlease,whicheverisless.
BB&Thasnoncancelableleasescoveringcertainpremisesandequipment.Totalrentexpenseapplicabletooperating
leaseswas$199million,$188millionand$210millionfor2011,2010and2009,respectively.Rentalincomefrom

ownedpropertiesandsubleaseswas$7million,$8millionand$7millionfor2011,2010and2009,respectively.Future

minimumleasepaymentsforoperatingleasesforthefiveyearssubsequentto2011are$184million,$170million,$158

million,$139millionand$123million.Thepaymentsfor2017andlateryearstotal$644million.
116NOTE6.GoodwillandOtherIntangibleAssets
ThechangesinthecarryingamountsofgoodwillattributabletoeachofBB&T’soperatingsegmentsfortheyearsended
December31,2011and2010arereflectedinthetablebelow.Todate,therehavebeennogoodwillimpairmentsrecorded

byBB&T.
CommunityBankingResidentialMortgageBankingDealerFinancialServicesSpecializedLendingInsuranceServicesFinancialServicesTotal(Dollarsinmillions)
Balance,January1,2010$4,587$7$111$100$1,056$192$6,053
Contingentconsideration
————9—9
Otheradjustments(50)——(6)2—(54)
Balance,December31,2010$4,537$7$111$94$1,067$192$6,008
Acquiredgoodwill,net
————45—45
Contingentconsideration
————20—20
Otheradjustments5—————5
Balance,December31,2011$4,542$7$111$94$1,132$192$6,078
ThefollowingtablepresentsthegrosscarryingamountsandaccumulatedamortizationforBB&T’sidentifiableintangible

assetssubjecttoamortizationatthedatespresented:
December31,2011
December31,2010
GrossCarryingAmountAccumulatedAmortizationNetCarryingAmountGrossCarryingAmountAccumulatedAmortizationNetCarryingAmount(Dollarsinmillions)
Identifiableintangibleassets:
Coredepositintangibles$626$(484)$142$626$(438)$188

Other(1)787(485)302752(432)320
Totals$1,413$(969)$444$1,378$(870)$508
(1)Otheridentifiableintangiblesareprimarilycustomerrelationshipintangibles.
DuringtheyearsendedDecember31,2011,2010and2009,BB&Tincurred$99million,$122millionand$114million,
respectively,inpre-taxamortizationexpensesassociatedwithcoredepositintangiblesandotherintangibleassets.At

December31,2011,theweighted-averageremaininglifeofcoredepositintangiblesandotheridentifiableintangibleswas

8.1yearsand12.6years,respectively.
Estimatedamortizationexpenseofidentifiableintangibleassetsforeachforthenextfiveyearstotal$85million,$69
million,$56million,$46millionand$39million.
NOTE7.LoanServicing
ResidentialMortgageBankingActivities
Thefollowingtableincludesasummaryofresidentialmortgageloansmanagedorsecuritizedandrelateddelinquencies
andnetcharge-offs:
December31,
20112010(Dollarsinmillions)
Mortgageloansmanagedorsecuritized(1)$26,559$23,692
Less:Loanssecuritizedandtransferredtosecuritiesavailableforsale44
Loansheldforsale3,3943,068

Coveredmortgageloans1,2641,446

Mortgageloanssoldwithrecourse1,3161,624
Mortgageloansheldforinvestment$20,581$17,550
Mortgageloansonnonaccrualstatus$308$466

Mortgageloans90daysormorepastdueandstillaccruinginterest(2)104143

Mortgageloansnetcharge-offs264390
117(1)Balancesexcludeloansservicedforothers,withnoothercontinuinginvolvement.
(2)Includesamountsrelatedtoresidentialmortgageloansheldforsaleandexcludesamountsrelatedtogovernment
guaranteedloans.RefertoLoansandLeasesNoteforadditionaldisclosuresrelatedtopastduegovernment

guaranteedloans.
TheunpaidprincipalbalancesofBB&T’stotalresidentialmortgageservicingportfoliowere$91.6billion,$83.5billion
and$73.7billionatDecember31,2011,2010and2009,respectively.Theunpaidprincipalbalancesofresidential

mortgageloansservicedforothersconsistprimarilyofagencyconformingfixed-ratemortgageloansandtotaled

$67.1billion,$61.8billionand$54.6billionatDecember31,2011,2010and2009,respectively.Mortgageloansserviced

forothersarenotincludedinloansandleasesontheaccompanyingConsolidatedBalanceSheets.
During2011,2010and2009,BB&Tsoldresidentialmortgageloansfromtheheldforsaleportfoliowithunpaidprincipal
balancesof$17.2billion,$19.1billionand$25.8billion,respectively,andrecognizedpre-taxgainsof$175million,

$235millionand$357million,respectively,includingtheimpactofinterestratelockcommitments.Thesegainsare

recordedinnoninterestincomeasacomponentofmortgagebankingincome.BB&Tretainedtherelatedmortgage

servicingrightsandreceivesservicingfees.
AtDecember31,2011,2010and2009,theapproximateweightedaverageservicingfeewas0.34%,0.35%and0.37%,
respectively,oftheoutstandingbalanceoftheresidentialmortgageloansservicedforothers.Theweightedaverage

couponinterestrateontheportfolioofmortgageloansservicedforotherswas5.02%,5.26%and5.57%atDecember31,

2011,2010and2009,respectively.BB&Trecognizedservicingfeesof$240million,$226millionand$190million

during2011,2010and2009,respectively,asacomponentofmortgagebankingincome.
AtDecember31,2011and2010,BB&Thad$1.3billionand$1.6billion,respectively,ofresidentialmortgageloanssoldwith
recourseliability.Intheeventofnonperformancebytheborrower,BB&Thasmaximumrecourseexposureofapproximately

$522millionand$597millionasofDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.AtbothDecember31,2011and2010,BB&T

hasrecorded$6millionofreservesrelatedtotheserecourseexposures.Paymentsmadetodatehavebeenimmaterial.
BB&Talsoissuesstandardrepresentationsandwarrantiesrelatedtomortgageloansalestogovernment-sponsored
entities.Althoughtheseagreementsoftendonotspecifylimitations,BB&Tdoesnotbelievethatanypaymentsrelatedto

thesewarrantieswouldmateriallychangethefinancialconditionorresultsofoperationsofBB&T.BB&Thasrecorded

$29millionand$15millionofreservesrelatedtopotentiallossesresultingfromrepurchasesofloanssoldat

December31,2011and2010,respectively.
Residentialmortgageservicingrightsarerecordedatfairvaluewithchangesinfairvaluerecordedasacomponentofmortgage
bankingincome.BB&Tusesvariousderivativeinstrumentstomitigatetheincomestatementeffectofchangesinfairvaluedue

tochangesinvaluationinputsandassumptionsofitsresidentialmortgageservicingrights.Thefollowingisananalysisofthe

activityinBB&T’sresidentialmortgageservicingrightsfortheyearsendedDecember31,2011,2010and2009:
ResidentialMortgageServicingRights
YearsEndedDecember31,
201120102009(Dollarsinmillions)
Carryingvalue,January1,$830$832$370
Additions225265398

Increase(decrease)infairvalue:
Duetochangesinvaluationinputsorassumptions(341)(138)190
Otherchanges(1)(151)(129)(126)
Carryingvalue,December31,$563$830$832
(1)Representstherealizationofexpectednetservicingcashflows,expectedborrowerpaymentsandthepassageoftime.
During2011,managementreviseditsservicingcostsassumptionsinthevaluationofresidentialmortgageservicingrights
duetotheexpectationofhighercoststhatareimpactingtheindustry.Theimpactofthesechangesresultedina

$30millionreductioninthevalueofresidentialmortgageservicingrights.Managementalsoupdatedprepaymentspeed

forecastassumptionsprimarilyduetoadecreaseininterestrateswhichcausedthefairvalueofresidentialmortgage

servicingrightstodecrease$293million.
118RefertoNote18foradditionaldisclosuresrelatedtotheassumptionsandestimatesusedindeterminingthefairvalueof
residentialmortgageservicingrights.AtDecember31,2011,thesensitivityofthecurrentfairvalueoftheresidential

mortgageservicingrightstoimmediate10%and20%adversechangesinkeyeconomicassumptionsareincludedinthe

accompanyingtable:
ResidentialMortgageServicingRights
December31,2011
(Dollarsinmillions)
Fairvalueofresidentialmortgageservicingrights$563
Compositionofresidentialloansservicedforothers:
Fixed-ratemortgageloans99%

Adjustable-ratemortgageloans1
Total100%
Weightedaveragelife3.7yrs
Prepaymentspeed20.8%
Effectonfairvalueofa10%increase$(35)

Effectonfairvalueofa20%increase(66)
Weightedaveragediscountrate10.0%
Effectonfairvalueofa10%increase$(18)

Effectonfairvalueofa20%increase(34)
Thesensitivitycalculationsabovearehypotheticalandshouldnotbeconsideredtobepredictiveoffutureperformance.
Asindicated,changesinfairvaluebasedonadversechangesinassumptionsgenerallycannotbeextrapolatedbecausethe

relationshipofthechangeinassumptiontothechangeinfairvaluemaynotbelinear.Also,inthistable,theeffectofan

adversevariationinaparticularassumptiononthefairvalueofthemortgageservicingrightsiscalculatedwithout

changinganyotherassumption;whileinreality,changesinonefactormayresultinchangesinanother,whichmay

magnifyorcounteracttheeffectofthechange.
CommercialMortgageBankingActivities
BB&TalsoarrangesandservicescommercialrealestatemortgagesthroughGrandbridgeRealEstateCapital,LLC
(“Grandbridge”)thecommercialmortgagebankingsubsidiaryofBranchBank.DuringtheyearsendedDecember31,

2011,2010and2009,Grandbridgeoriginated$4.8billion,$3.1billionand$2.3billion,respectively,ofcommercialreal

estatemortgages,themajorityofwhichwerearrangedforthirdpartyinvestors.AsofDecember31,2011,2010and2009,

Grandbridge’sportfolioofcommercialrealestatemortgagesservicedforotherstotaled$25.4billion,$24.1billionand

$24.3billion,respectively.Commercialrealestatemortgageloansservicedforothersarenotincludedinloansandleases

ontheaccompanyingConsolidatedBalanceSheets.AsofDecember31,2011and2010,therewere$107millionand

$103millionofmortgageservicingrightsrecordedrelatedtotheseservicingrelationships.Grandbridgehad$4.5billion

and$4.4billioninloansservicedforothersthatwerecoveredbyrecourseprovisionsatDecember31,2011and2010,

respectively.AtDecember31,2011and2010,Grandbridge’smaximumexposuretolossfortheseloanswas

approximately$1.2billion.BB&Thasrecorded$15millionand$19millionofreservesrelatedtotheserecourse

exposuresatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.
NOTE8.FederalFundsPurchased,SecuritiesSoldUnderAgreementstoRepurchaseandShort-TermBorrowed
FundsFederalfundspurchased,securitiessoldunderagreementstorepurchaseandshort-termborrowedfundsaresummarized
asfollows:
December31,
20112010(Dollarsinmillions)
Federalfundspurchased$12$23

Securitiessoldunderagreementstorepurchase6191,189

Masternotes
296806
Othershort-termborrowedfunds2,6393,655
Total$3,566$5,673
119Federalfundspurchasedrepresentunsecuredborrowingsfromotherbanksandgenerallymaturedaily.Securitiessold
underagreementstorepurchaseareborrowingscollateralizedprimarilybysecuritiesoftheU.S.governmentorits

agencies.Masternotesareunsecured,non-negotiableobligationsofBB&T(variableratecommercialpaper)thatmature

in270daysorless.Othershort-termborrowedfundsincludeunsecuredbanknotesthatmatureinlessthanoneyear,bank

obligationswithamaturityofsevendaysthatarecollateralizedbymunicipalsecurities,U.S.Treasurytaxandloan

depositnotespayabletotheU.S.Treasuryupondemand.
AsummaryofselecteddatarelatedtoFederalfundspurchased,securitiessoldunderagreementstorepurchaseandshort-
termborrowedfundsfollows:
Asof/FortheYearsEndedDecember31,
201120102009(Dollarsinmillions)
Maximumoutstandingatanymonth-endduringtheyear$10,473$11,690$19,917

Balanceoutstandingatendofyear3,5665,6738,106

Averageoutstandingduringtheyear5,1899,02212,491

Averageinterestrateduringtheyear(1)0.21%0.24%0.46%

Averageinterestrateatendofyear0.200.460.34
(1)Includestheimpactofderivativeactivities.
NOTE9.Deposits
AsummaryofBB&T’sdepositsispresentedintheaccompanyingtable:
December31,
20112010(Dollarsinmillions)
Noninterest-bearingdeposits
$25,684$20,637
Interestchecking20,70117,908

Moneymarketandsavings44,61836,964

Certificatesandothertimedeposits33,89927,167

Foreignofficedeposits-interest-bearing374,537
Totaldeposits
$124,939$107,213
Timedepositsthatare$100,000andgreatertotaled$19.8billionand$10.6billionatDecember31,2011and2010,
respectively.120NOTE10.Long-TermDebt
Long-termdebtcomprisedthefollowing:
December31,
20112010(Dollarsinmillions)
BB&TCorporation:
3.10%SeniorNotesDue2011$—$250
3.85%SeniorNotesDue20121,0001,000

3.38%SeniorNotesDue2013500500

5.70%SeniorNotesDue2014510510

2.05%SeniorNotesDue2014(1)700—

FloatingRateSeniorNotesDue2014(2)300—

3.95%SeniorNotesDue2016499499

3.20%SeniorNotesDue2016999—

6.85%SeniorNotesDue2019538538

6.50%SubordinatedNotesDue2011(3)—610

4.75%SubordinatedNotesDue2012(3)490490

5.20%SubordinatedNotesDue2015(3)933932

4.90%SubordinatedNotesDue2017(1)(3)342339

5.25%SubordinatedNotesDue2019(3)586586
BranchBank:
FloatingRateSubordinatedNotesDue2016(3)(4)350350

FloatingRateSubordinatedNotesDue2017(3)(4)262261

4.875%SubordinatedNotesDue2013(3)222222

5.625%SubordinatedNotesDue2016(1)(3)386386
FederalHomeLoanBankAdvancestoBranchBank:(5)
Varyingmaturitiesto20348,99810,243
JuniorSubordinatedDebttoUnconsolidatedTrusts(1)(6)3,2713,269

OtherLong-TermDebt83123

Fairvaluehedge-relatedbasisadjustments834622
TotalLong-TermDebt$21,803$21,730
(1)DebtlistedindividuallyandoneormoreissuesincludedintheJuniorSubordinatedDebttoUnconsolidatedTrusts
categoryhavebeenswappedtofloatingratesbasedonLIBOR.AtDecember31,2011,theeffectiveratespaidon

theseborrowingsrangedfrom1.05%to3.92%.
(2)Thesefloating-rateseniornotesarebasedonLIBORandhadaneffectiverateof1.12%atDecember31,2011.

(3)Subordinatednotesthatqualifyundertherisk-basedcapitalguidelinesasTier2supplementarycapital,subjectto
certainlimitations.
(4)Thesefloating-ratesecuritiesarebasedonLIBOR,butthemajorityofthecashflowshavebeenswappedtoafixedrate.
Theeffectiveratepaidonthesesecuritiesincludingtheeffectoftheswappedportionwas3.26%atDecember31,2011.
(5)Certainoftheseadvanceshavebeenswappedtofloatingratesfromfixedratesandfromfixedratestofloatingrates.
AtDecember31,2011,theweightedaverageratepaidontheseadvancesincludingtheeffectoftheswappedportion

was3.79%,andtheweightedaveragematuritywas6.0years.
(6)Securitiesthatqualifyundertherisk-basedcapitalguidelinesasTier1capital,subjecttocertainlimitations.A
summaryofthesignificanttermsofthesesecuritiesaredetailedinthefollowingtable.
ExcludingthecapitalizedleasessetforthinNote5,futuredebtmaturitiestotal$1.5billion,$1.6billion,$2.0billion,$1.1
billionand$4.1billionforthenextfiveyears.Thematuritiesfor2017andlateryearstotal$11.4billion.
JuniorSubordinatedDebttoUnconsolidatedTrusts
InMarch2011,BB&Tmadethedecisiontoretireallofitsjuniorsubordinateddebttounconsolidatedtruststhroughthe
exerciseofcertainearlyredemptionprovisions.BB&Tdeterminedthatitwasappropriatetoamortizetheremainingdebt

issuancecostsandrelateddiscountsorpremiums,includingfairvaluehedgeadjustments,overtheperiodfromMarch

2011tothecurrentexpectedredemptiondateforeachoftheimpacteddebtsecurities.
121ThefollowingtableisasummaryofthesignificanttermsofoutstandingjuniorsubordinateddebtasoriginatedbyBB&T
anditssubsidiariesandpredecessorcompaniesasofthedatespresented:
December31,
StatedInterestRedemption
IssuerIssuanceDate
20112010MaturityFinalMaturity
RatePeriod(Dollarsinmillions)
BB&TCapitalTrustIAugust2005$515$514August20355.85%Anytime
BB&TCapitalTrustIIJune2006599598June20366.75Anytime

BB&TCapitalTrustIV(1)June2007600600June2057June20776.82Anytime

BB&TCapitalTrustV(2)(3)September2008450450September2063September20688.95after09/15/13

BB&TCapitalTrustVI(3)July2009575575August2064August20699.60after08/01/14

BB&TCapitalTrustVIIOctober2009350350November2064November20698.10after11/01/14

Mason-DixonCapitalTrustJuly19972121June202710.07after06/15/07

MainStreetCapitalTrustINovember19974848December20278.90after12/01/07

PremierCapitalTrustINovember19973030December20279.00after12/31/07

MainStreetBanksStatutoryTrustINovember200255November2032Variableafter11/15/07

MainStreetBanksStatutoryTrustIIMay20034646June2033Variableafter06/30/08

CoastalFinancialCapitalTrustIJuly20031515July2033Variableafter07/03/08

FirstCitizensBancorpStatutoryTrustIDecember20031010December2033Variableafter12/17/08

FirstCitizensBancorpStatutoryTrustIIJune200577June2035Variableafter06/15/10
Total$3,271$3,269
(1)ThesesecuritiesarefixedratethroughJune12,2037andthenswitchtoafloatingratebasedonLIBOR.

(2)$360millionofthisissuancewasswappedtoafloatingratebasedonLIBOR.AtDecember31,2011,theeffectiverateontheswappedportionwas
3.92%(3)ThesesecuritiesarefixedratethroughinitialmaturityandthenswitchtoafloatingratebasedonLIBORifextended.
NOTE11.Shareholders’Equity
CommonStock
TheauthorizedcommonstockofBB&Tconsistsoftwobillionshareswitha$5parvalue.Therewere697millionand
694millioncommonsharesissuedandoutstandingatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.
PreferredStock
TheauthorizedpreferredstockofBB&Tconsistsoffivemillionshares.AtDecember31,2011and2010,therewereno
preferredsharesoutstanding.
Equity-BasedPlans
AtDecember31,2011,BB&Thasoptions,restrictedsharesandrestrictedshareunitsoutstandingfromthefollowing
equity-basedcompensationplans:the2004StockIncentivePlan(“2004Plan”),the1995OmnibusStockIncentivePlan

(“OmnibusPlan”),theNon-EmployeeDirectors’StockOptionPlan(“Directors’Plan”),andaplanassumedfroman

acquiredentity.BB&T’sshareholdershaveapprovedallequity-basedcompensationplanswiththeexceptionoftheplan

assumedfromanacquiredentity.AsofDecember31,2011,the2004Planistheonlyplanthathassharesavailablefor

futuregrants.The2004Planallowsforacceleratedvestingofawardsforholderswhoretireandhavemetallretirement

eligibilityrequirementsandinconnectionwithcertainotherevents.
BB&T’s2004PlanisintendedtoassisttheCorporationinrecruitingandretainingemployees,directorsandindependent
contractorsandtoassociatetheinterestsofeligibleparticipantswiththoseofBB&Tanditsshareholders.At

December31,2011,therewere27.3millionnon-qualifiedandqualifiedstockoptionsatpricesrangingfrom$12.53to

$44.20and13.5millionrestrictedsharesandrestrictedshareunitsoutstandingunderthe2004Plan.Awardsoutstanding

underthe2004Planvestasfollows:(1)thosegrantedpriorto2010generallyvestoverfiveyearsand(2)thosegranted

after2009generallyvestoverfouryears.Optionsoutstandinghaveatenyearterm.AtDecember31,2011,therewere

15.2millionsharesavailableforfuturegrantsunderthe2004Plan.
BB&T’sOmnibusPlanwasintendedtoallowBB&Ttorecruitandretainemployeeswithabilityandinitiativeandto
aligntheemployees’interestswiththoseofBB&Tanditsshareholders.AtDecember31,2011,17.8million

non-qualifiedandqualifiedstockoptionsatpricesrangingfrom$24.69to$43.25wereoutstanding.Alloptionsunderthis

planarefullyvestedandhaveatenyearterm.
122BB&TmeasuresthefairvalueofeachoptionawardonthedateofgrantusingtheBlack-Scholesoption-pricingmodel
withthefollowingweightedaverageassumptionsusedforgrantsawardedin2011,2010and2009,respectively.

SubstantiallyallofBB&T’soptionawardsaregrantedinFebruaryofeachyear.Therefore,theassumptionsnotedbelow

areweightedaccordingly:
December31,
201120102009Assumptions:Risk-freeinterestrate1.7%2.0%3.1%

Dividendyield3.55.46.0

Volatilityfactor37.236.029.1

Expectedlife7.4yrs7.2yrs7.1yrs
Fairvalueofoptionspershare$7.45$5.60$2.59
BB&TdeterminestheassumptionsusedintheBlack-Scholesoptionpricingmodelasfollows:therisk-freeinterestrateis
basedontheU.S.Treasuryyieldcurveineffectatthetimeofthegrant;thedividendyieldisbasedonthehistorical

dividendyieldofBB&T’sstock,adjustedtoreflecttheexpecteddividendyieldovertheexpectedlifeoftheoption;the

volatilityfactorisbasedonthehistoricalvolatilityofBB&T’sstock,adjustedtoreflectthewaysinwhichcurrent

informationindicatesthatthefutureisreasonablyexpectedtodifferfromthepast;andtheweighted-averageexpectedlife

isbasedonthehistoricalbehaviorofemployeesrelatedtoexercises,forfeituresandcancellations.
BB&TmeasuresthefairvalueofrestrictedsharesbasedonthepriceofBB&T’scommonstockonthegrantdateandthe
fairvalueofrestrictedshareunitsbasedonthepriceofBB&T’scommonstockonthegrantdatelessthepresentvalueof

expecteddividendsthatareforegoneduringthevestingperiod.
BB&Trecorded$98million,$79millionand$62millioninequity-basedcompensationin2011,2010and2009,
respectively.Inconnectionwiththiscompensationexpense,BB&Trecordedanincometaxbenefitof$36million,$30

millionand$24millionin2011,2010and2009,respectively.Thetotalintrinsicvalueofoptionsexercisedandrestricted

shareunitsvestedduring2011,2010and2009was$54million,$22millionand$6million,respectively.Thetotalgrant

datefairvalueofequity-basedawardsthatvestedduring2011was$76million.AsofDecember31,2011,therewas$109

millionofunrecognizedcompensationcostsrelatedtoBB&T’sequity-basedawardsthatisexpectedtoberecognized

overaweighted-averagelifeof2.6years.
Thefollowingtabledetailstheactivityduring2011relatedtostockoptionsawardedbyBB&T:
YearEndedDecember31,2011
Wtd.Avg.
Wtd.Avg.AggregateRemaining
ExerciseIntrinsicContractual
OptionsPriceValueLife(Dollarsinmillions,exceptpershareamounts)
Outstandingatbeginningofperiod44,690,131$35.06
Granted3,755,97527.73

Exercised(50,298)17.33

Forfeitedorexpired(3,011,254)35.73
Outstandingatendofperiod45,384,55434.42$224.6yrs
Exercisableatendofperiod34,098,19836.3993.5
Exercisableandexpectedtovestatendofperiod43,706,387$34.44$214.5
123Thefollowingtabledetailstheactivityduring2011relatedtorestrictedsharesandrestrictedshareunitsawardedbyBB&T:
YearEnded
December31,2011
Shares/UnitsWtd.Avg.
GrantDate
FairValue
Nonvestedatbeginningofperiod13,283,786$20.06
Granted2,582,02824.10

Vested(1,913,659)29.40

Forfeited(489,525)21.00
Nonvestedatendofperiod13,462,630$19.47
AtDecember31,2011,BB&T’srestrictedsharesandrestrictedshareunitshadaweighted-averagelifeof2.1years.At

December31,2011,managementestimatesthat13.1millionrestrictedsharesandrestrictedshareunitswillvestovera

weighted-averagelifeof2.1years.
ShareRepurchaseActivity
AtDecember31,2011,BB&Twasauthorizedtorepurchaseanadditional44millionsharesundertheJune27,2006
BoardofDirectors’authorization.Nosharesofcommonstockwererepurchasedunderthisplanduring2011,2010or

2009.NOTE12.AccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome(Loss)
Thebalancesinaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome(loss)areshowninthefollowingtable:
December31,2011
December31,2010
Pre-TaxAmountDeferredTaxExpense
(Benefit)After-TaxAmountPre-TaxAmountDeferredTaxExpense
(Benefit)After-TaxAmount(Dollarsinmillions)
Unrecognizednetpensionand
postretirementcosts$(965)$(362)$(603)$(587)$(219)$(368)
Unrealizednetgains(losses)oncashflow
hedges(254)(95)(159)(75)(28)(47)
Unrealizednetgains(losses)onsecurities
availableforsale421158263(250)(93)(157)
FDIC’sshareofunrealized(gains)losses
onsecuritiesavailableforsaleunderthe

lossshareagreements(1)(311)(116)(195)(281)(105)(176)
Other,net(37)(18)(19)(6)(7)1
Total$(1,146)$(433)$(713)$(1,199)$(452)$(747)
(1)CertainsecuritiesavailableforsalearecoveredbylosssharingagreementswiththeFDIC.RefertotheSecurities
footnotetothesefinancialstatementsforadditionalinformation.
AsofDecember31,2011and2010,unrealizednetlossesonsecuritiesavailableforsaleincluded$57millionand$115
million,respectively,ofpre-taxlossesrelatedtoother-than-temporarilyimpairednon-agencymortgage-backedsecurities

whereaportionofthelosswasrecognizedinnetincome.
124ThefollowingtablesreflectthecomponentsoftotalcomprehensiveincomefortheyearsendedDecember31,2011,2010
and2009.
YearEndedDecember31,2011
Pre-TaxTaxEffect
After-Tax(Dollarsinmillions)
Comprehensiveincome:
Netincome$1,628$296$1,332

Othercomprehensiveincome:
Unrealizednetholdinggains(losses)arisingduringtheperiod
onsecuritiesavailableforsale698261437
Reclassificationadjustmentfor(gains)lossesonsecurities
availableforsaleincludedinnetincome(62)(24)(38)
NetchangeinamountsattributabletotheFDICundertheloss
shareagreements(30)(11)(19)
Netchangeinunrecognizedgains(losses)oncashflowhedges(179)(67)(112)

Netchangeinpensionandpostretirementliability(378)(143)(235)

Other,net431
Totalcomprehensiveincome$1,681$315$1,366
YearEndedDecember31,2010
Pre-TaxTaxEffect
After-Tax(Dollarsinmillions)
Comprehensiveincome:
Netincome$969$115$854

Othercomprehensiveincome:
Unrealizednetholdinggains(losses)arisingduringtheperiod
onsecuritiesavailableforsale667252415
Reclassificationadjustmentfor(gains)lossesonsecurities
availableforsaleincludedinnetincome(554)(207)(347)
NetchangeinamountsattributabletotheFDICundertheloss
shareagreements(251)(94)(157)
Netchangeinunrecognizedgains(losses)oncashflowhedges(248)(94)(154)

Netchangeinpensionandpostretirementliability(140)(50)(90)

Other,net1(2)3
Totalcomprehensiveincome$444$(80)$524
YearEndedDecember31,2009
Pre-TaxTaxEffect
After-Tax(Dollarsinmillions)
Comprehensiveincome:
Netincome$1,036$159$877

Othercomprehensiveincome:
Unrealizednetholdinggains(losses)arisingduringtheperiod
onsecuritiesavailableforsale353130223
Reclassificationadjustmentfor(gains)lossesonsecurities
availableforsaleincludedinnetincome(199)(75)(124)
NetchangeinamountsattributabletotheFDICundertheloss
shareagreements(30)(11)(19)
Netchangeinunrecognizedgains(losses)oncashflowhedges973859

Netchangeinpensionandpostretirementliability273104169

Other,net2(5)7
Totalcomprehensiveincome$1,532$340$1,192
125NOTE13.IncomeTaxes
Theprovisionforincometaxescomprisedthefollowing:
YearsEndedDecember31,
201120102009(Dollarsinmillions)
Currentexpense:
Federal$83$161$302

State261815

Foreign222
Totalcurrentexpense111181319

Deferredexpense(benefit):
Federal163(65)(143)

State22(1)(17)
Totaldeferredexpense(benefit)185(66)(160)
Provisionforincometaxes$296$115$159
TheforeignincometaxexpenseisrelatedtoincomegeneratedonassetscontrolledbyaforeignsubsidiaryofBranch

Bank.Thereasonsforthedifferencebetweentheprovisionforincometaxesandtheamountcomputedbyapplyingthestatutory
Federalincometaxratetoincomebeforeincometaxeswereasfollows:
YearsEndedDecember31,
201120102009(Dollarsinmillions)
Federalincometaxesatstatutoryrateof35%$570$339$362

Increase(decrease)inprovisionforincometaxesasa
resultof:
AdditiontoFederaltaxreserves,net—126

Stateincometaxes,netofFederaltaxbenefit3111(2)

Federaltaxcredits(115)(105)(78)

InterestonFederaltaxrefunds13(4)

Taxexemptincome(135)(125)(108)

Nontaxablegainonterminationofleveragedlease(22)(2)(18)

Other,net(34)(7)(19)
Provisionforincometaxes$296$115$159
Effectiveincometaxrate18.2%11.9%15.3%
126Thetaxeffectsoftemporarydifferencesthatgaverisetosignificantportionsofthenetdeferredtaxassetsandliabilities
arereflectedinthetablebelow.Netdeferredtaxassetsareincludedinotherassetsonthe“ConsolidatedBalanceSheets”.
December31,
20112010(Dollarsinmillions)
Deferredtaxassets:
Allowanceforloanandleaselosses$855$1,003

Netunrealizedlossonsecuritiesavailableforsale—198

Postretirementplans362219

Equity-basedcompensation130123

Loan/Securitiesbasisdifference127165

Foreclosedpropertywrite-downs240196

Netunrealizedlossoncashflowhedges9528

Other257262
Totaldeferredtaxassets2,0662,194
Deferredtaxliabilities:
Leasefinancing267211

Prepaidpensionplanexpense352360

Loanfeesandexpenses225199

Depreciation7678

Identifiableintangibleassets92107

Loanservicingrights156218

Derivativesandhedging13668

Other12097
Totaldeferredtaxliabilities1,4241,338
Netdeferredtaxassets$642$856
Onaperiodicbasis,BB&Tevaluatesitsincometaxpositionsbasedontaxlawsandregulationsandfinancialreporting
considerations,andrecordsadjustmentsasappropriate.Thisevaluationtakesintoconsiderationthestatusofcurrent

taxingauthorities’examinationsofBB&T’staxreturns,recentpositionstakenbythetaxingauthoritiesonsimilar

transactions,ifany,andtheoveralltaxenvironmentinrelationtotax-advantagedtransactions.Thefollowingtable

presentschangesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsfortheyearsendedDecember31,2011,2010and2009.
YearsEndedDecember31,
201120102009(Dollarsinmillions)
Beginningbalanceofunrecognizedtaxbenefits$292$179$197
Additionsfortaxpositionsofprioryears6—1

Settlements(1)—(16)

Lapseofstatuteoflimitations—(1)(3)

Unrecognizeddeferredtaxbenefitsfrombusinessacquisitions4114—
Endingbalanceofunrecognizedtaxbenefits$301$292$179
AsofDecember31,2011,BB&Thad$301millionofunrecognizedFederalandstatetaxbenefitsthatwouldhave

impactedtheeffectivetaxrateifrecognized.Inaddition,theCompanyhad$39millionand$37millioninliabilitiesfor

tax-relatedinterestrecordedonitsConsolidatedBalanceSheetsatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.Total

interest,netoftheFederalbenefit,relatedtounrecognizedtaxbenefitsrecognizedinthe2011,2010and2009

ConsolidatedStatementsofIncomewasimmaterial.BB&Tclassifiesinterestandpenaltiesrelatedtoincometaxesasa

componentoftheprovisionforincometaxesintheConsolidatedStatementsofIncome.
TheIRShascompleteditsFederalincometaxexaminationsofBB&Tthrough2007.Inconnectionwiththesettlement
agreementwiththeIRSregardingitsleveragedleasetransactions,BB&TisentitledtoFederalincometaxrefundsfortax

years1998-2006.During2010,BB&TreceivedFederaltaxrefundsincludinginterestofapproximately$379millionfor
127taxyears1998-2006.InFebruary2010,BB&TreceivedanIRSstatutorynoticeofdeficiencyfortaxyears2002-2007
assertingaliabilityfortaxes,penaltiesandinterestofapproximately$892millionrelatedtothedisallowanceofforeign

taxcreditsandotherdeductionsclaimedbyasubsidiaryinconnectionwithafinancingtransaction.Managementhas

consultedwithoutsidecounselandcontinuestobelievethatBB&T’streatmentofthistransactionwasincompliancewith

applicabletaxlawsandregulations.However,asaproceduralmatterandinordertolimititsexposuretoincremental

penaltiesandinterestassociatedwiththismatter,BB&Tpaidthedisputedtax,penaltiesandinterestinMarch2010,and

filedalawsuitseekingarefundintheU.S.CourtofFederalClaims.TheCourthasscheduledthetrialtotakeplacein

March2013.BB&Trecordedareceivableinotherassetsfortheamountofthispayment,lessthereserveconsidered

necessaryinaccordancewithapplicableincometaxaccountingguidance.Basedonanassessmentoftheapplicabletax

lawandtherelevantfactsandcircumstancesrelatedtothismatter,managementhasconcludedthattheamountofthis

reserveisadequate,althoughlitigationisstillongoing.Finalresolutionofthismatterisnotexpectedtooccurwithinthe

nexttwelvemonths.Variousyearsremainsubjecttoexaminationbystatetaxingauthorities.
NOTE14.BenefitPlans
BB&Tprovidesvariousbenefitplanstosubstantiallyallemployees,includingemployeesofacquiredentities.Employees
ofacquiredentitiesgenerallyparticipateinexistingBB&Tplansafterconsummationofthebusinesscombinations.The

plansofacquiredinstitutionsaretypicallymergedintotheBB&Tplansafterconsummationofthemergers,and,under

thesecircumstances,creditisusuallygiventotheseemployeesforyearsofserviceattheacquiredinstitutionforvesting

andeligibilitypurposes.
DefinedBenefitRetirementPlans
BB&TprovidesadefinedbenefitretirementplanqualifiedundertheInternalRevenueCodethatcoverssubstantiallyall
employees.Benefitsarebasedonyearsofservice,ageatretirementandtheemployee’scompensationduringthefive

highestconsecutiveyearsofearningswithinthelasttenyearsofemployment.
Inaddition,supplementalretirementbenefitsareprovidedtocertainkeyofficersundersupplementaldefinedbenefit
executiveretirementplans,whicharenotqualifiedundertheInternalRevenueCode.Althoughtechnicallyunfunded

plans,aRabbiTrustandinsurancepoliciesonthelivesofthecertaincoveredemployeesareavailabletofinancefuture

benefits.Thefollowingarethesignificantactuarialassumptionsthatwereusedtodeterminenetperiodicpensioncosts:
December31,
20112010ActuarialAssumptions:
Weightedaverageassumeddiscountrate5.52%6.16%

Weightedaverageexpectedlong-termrateofreturnonplanassets8.008.00

Assumedlong-termrateofannualcompensationincreases(1)4.504.50
(1)Representstheratetobeachievedby2015.
Theweightedaverageexpectedlong-termrateofreturnonplanassetsrepresentstheaveragerateofreturnexpectedtobe
earnedonplanassetsovertheperiodthebenefitsincludedinthebenefitobligationaretobepaid.Indevelopingthe

expectedrateofreturn,BB&Tconsiderslong-termcompoundannualizedreturnsofhistoricalmarketdataforeachasset

category,aswellashistoricalactualreturnsontheplanassets.Usingthisreferenceinformation,theCompanydevelops

forward-lookingreturnexpectationsforeachassetcategoryandaweightedaverageexpectedlong-termrateofreturnfor

theplanbasedontargetassetallocationscontainedinBB&T’sInvestmentPolicyStatement.
128Financialdatarelativetothedefinedbenefitpensionplansissummarizedinthefollowingtablesfortheyearsindicated.
ThequalifiedpensionplanprepaidassetisrecordedontheConsolidatedBalanceSheetsasacomponentofotherassets

andthenonqualifiedpensionplansaccruedliabilityisrecordedontheConsolidatedBalanceSheetsasacomponentof

otherliabilities.ThedataiscalculatedusinganactuarialmeasurementdateofDecember31.
YearsEndedDecember31,
201120102009(Dollarsinmillions)
NetPeriodicPensionCost:
Servicecost$105$83$76

Interestcost1039386

Estimatedreturnonplanassets(197)(178)(144)

Netamortizationandother342458
Netperiodicbenefitcost452276
Pre-TaxAmountsRecognizedinComprehensiveIncome:
Netactuarialloss(gain)388133(228)

Netamortization(34)(24)(58)
Netamountrecognizedincomprehensiveincome354109(286)
Totalnetperiodicpensioncosts(income)recognizedin
totalcomprehensiveincome$399$131$(210)
Thefollowingarethesignificantactuarialassumptionsthatwereusedtodeterminebenefitobligations:
December31,
20112010ActuarialAssumptions:
Weightedaverageassumeddiscountrate4.82%5.52%

Assumedrateofannualcompensationincreases(1)4.504.50
(1)Representstheratetobeachievedby2015.
QualifiedPensionPlan
NonqualifiedPensionPlans
YearsEndedDecember31,
YearsEndedDecember31,
2011201020112010(Dollarsinmillions)
ChangeinProjectedBenefitObligation:
Projectedbenefitobligation,January1,$1,696$1,378$182$145
Servicecost997865

Interestcost9384109

Actuarial(gain)loss2182031731

Benefitspaid(51)(47)(8)(8)
Projectedbenefitobligation,December31,$2,055$1,696$207$182
QualifiedPensionPlan
NonqualifiedPensionPlans
YearsEndedDecember31,
YearsEndedDecember31,
2011201020112010(Dollarsinmillions)
ChangeinPlanAssets:
Fairvalueofplanassets,January1,$2,484$2,184$—$—
Actualreturnonplanassets45279——

Employercontributions—6888

Benefitspaid(51)(47)(8)(8)
Fairvalueofplanassets,December31,$2,478$2,484$—$—
Fundedstatusatendofyear$423$788$(207)$(182)
129Thefollowingarethepre-taxamountsrecognizedinaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome:
QualifiedPensionPlan
NonqualifiedPensionPlans
YearsEndedDecember31,
YearsEndedDecember31,
2011201020112010(Dollarsinmillions)
Priorservicecredit(cost)$1$2$(1)$(1)
Netactuarialgain(loss)(864)(523)(63)(50)
Netamountrecognized$(863)$(521)$(64)$(51)
Theexpectedamortizationofunrecognizedpriorservicecreditandunrecognizednetactuariallossesforthequalifiedplan

andnonqualifiedplansthatareexpectedtobeamortizedfromaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome(loss)intonet

periodicpensioncostduring2012arereflectedinthefollowingtable:
QualifiedPensionPlan
NonqualifiedPensionPlans
(Dollarsinmillions)
ExpectedAmortizationfor2012:
Priorservicecredit(cost)$1$-

Netactuarialgain(loss)(68)(5)
Netamounttobeamortizedin2012$(67)$(5)
Theaccumulatedbenefitobligationforthequalifiedplantotaled$1.8billionand$1.5billionatDecember31,2011and

2010,respectively.Forthenonqualifiedplans,theaccumulatedbenefitobligationtotaled$178millionand$156million

atDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.
Employercontributionstothequalifiedpensionplanareinamountsbetweentheminimumrequiredforfundingstandard
accountsandthemaximumamountdeductibleforfederalincometaxpurposes.Managementisnotrequiredtomakea

contributiontothequalifiedpensionplanduring2012;however,managementmaymakeadditionalcontributionsduring

2012ifdeemedappropriate.Forthenonqualifiedplanstheemployercontributionsarebasedonbenefitpayments.The

followingtablereflectstheestimatedbenefitpaymentsreflectingexpectedfutureserviceforthenextfiveyearsandfor

theyears2017through2021.
QualifiedPensionPlan
NonqualifiedPensionPlans
(Dollarsinmillions)
EstimatedBenefitPayments:
2012$57$9

2013639
20146910
20157611
20168311
2017-202154265
BB&T’sprimarytotalreturnobjectiveistoachievereturnsthat,overthelongterm,willfundretirementliabilitiesand
provideforthedesiredplanbenefitsinamannerthatsatisfiesthefiduciaryrequirementsoftheEmployeeRetirement

IncomeSecurityAct.Theplanassetshavealong-term,indefinitetimehorizonthatrunsconcurrentwiththeaveragelife

expectancyoftheparticipants.Assuch,thePlancanassumeatimehorizonthatextendswellbeyondafullmarketcycle,

andcanassumeanabove-averagelevelofrisk,asmeasuredbythestandarddeviationofannualreturn.Itisexpected,

however,thatbothprofessionalinvestmentmanagementandsufficientportfoliodiversificationwillsmoothvolatilityand

helptogenerateareasonableconsistencyofreturn.Theinvestmentsarebroadlydiversifiedamongeconomicsector,

industry,qualityandsizeinordertoreduceriskandtoproduceincrementalreturn.Withinapprovedguidelinesand

restrictions,investmentmanagershavewidediscretionoverthetimingandselectionofindividualinvestments.
BB&Tperiodicallyreviewsitsassetallocationandinvestmentpolicyandmakeschangestoitstargetassetallocation.
BB&Thasestablishedguidelineswithineachassetcategorytoensuretheappropriatebalanceofriskandreward.The

currenttargetassetallocationsfortheplanassetsincludearangeof35%to45%forU.S.equitysecurities,7%to13%for
130internationalequitysecurities,20%to30%forfixedincomesecurities,and3%to30%foralternativeinvestments,which
includerealestate,hedgefunds,privateequitiesandcommodities,withanyremaindertobeheldincashequivalents.In

June2011,theCompensationCommitteerevisedtheassetallocationstrategyforthePlanandtheTrusttolowerthe

allocationofalternativeinvestments.Currently,theassetallocationsofcertainplanassetclassesmaybeoutsideof

establishedparameterswhiletransitiontothenewassetallocationstrategy.
ThefairvalueofBB&T’spensionplanassetsatDecember31,2011and2010,byassetcategoryarereflectedinthe
followingtables.Thethreelevelfairvaluehierarchythatdescribestheinputsusedtomeasuretheseplanassetsisdefined

inNote18“FairValueDisclosures”.
FairValueMeasurementsforPlanAssets
12/31/11Level1
Level2
Level3
(Dollarsinmillions)
Planassets:
U.S.equitysecurities(1)$1,072$1,072$-$-

Internationalequitysecurities(2)439336103-

Fixedincomesecurities852130722-

Alternativeinvestments99--99
Totalplanassets(3)$2,462$1,538$825$99
(1)IncludedinU.S.equitysecuritiesis3.6millionsharesofBB&Tcommonstockvaluedat$92millionat
December31,2011.
(2)Thiscategoryincludedacommon/commingledfundthatiscomprisedofassetsfromseveralaccounts,pooled
together,toreducemanagementandadministrationcosts.
(3)Thetotalfairvalueofplanassetsexcludes$16millionofaccruedincomeatDecember31,2011.
FairValueMeasurementsforPlanAssets
12/31/10Level1
Level2
Level3
(Dollarsinmillions)
Planassets:
U.S.equitysecurities(1)$1,098$1,098$-$-

Internationalequitysecurities(2)488384104-

Fixedincomesecurities766121645-

Alternativeinvestments124--124
Totalplanassets(3)$2,476$1,603$749$124
(1)IncludedinU.S.equitysecuritiesis3.6millionsharesofBB&Tcommonstockvaluedat$95millionat
December31,2010.
(2)Thiscategoryincludedacommon/commingledfundthatiscomprisedofassetsfromseveralaccounts,pooled
together,toreducemanagementandadministrationcosts.
(3)Thetotalfairvalueofplanassetsexcludes$8millionofaccruedincomeatDecember31,2010.
131ThefollowingtablepresentstheactivityforLevel3planassetsfortheyearsendedDecember31,2011,2010and2009:
FairValueMeasurementsUsing
SignificantUnobservableInputs
AlternativeInvestmentsU.S.Securities(Dollarsinmillions)
BalanceatJanuary1,2009$90$61
Actualreturnonplanassets12(12)

Purchases,salesandsettlements(10)—

Transfersin/outofLevel3—(49)
BalanceatDecember31,200992—
Actualreturnonplanassets9—

Purchases,salesandsettlements(1)23—
BalanceatDecember31,2010124—
Actualreturnonplanassets9—

Purchases(1)21—

Sales(55)—
BalanceatDecember31,2011$99$—
(1)Thenetpurchasesinalternativeinvestmentsduring2011and2010relatestoinvestmentcommitmentsthatexisted
priortoJanuary1,2009.
DefinedContributionPlans
BB&Toffersa401(k)SavingsPlanandotherdefinedcontributionplansthatpermitemployeestocontributefrom1%to
50%oftheircashcompensation.Forfull-timeemployeeswhoare21yearsofageorolderwithoneyearormoreof

service,BB&Tmakesmatchingcontributionsofupto6%oftheemployee’scompensation.BB&T’scontributiontothe

401(k)SavingsPlanandnonqualifieddefinedcontributionplanstotaled$85million,$83millionand$80millionforthe

yearsendedDecember31,2011,2010and2009,respectively.BB&Talsooffersdefinedcontributionplanstocertain

employeesofsubsidiarieswhodonotparticipateinthe401(k)SavingsPlan.
Otherbenefits
Therearevariousotheremploymentcontracts,deferredcompensationarrangementsandcovenantsnottocompetewith
selectedmembersofmanagementandcertainretirees.Inaddition,BB&Tsponsorsaplanwhichprovidescertainretirees

withasubsidyforpurchasinghealthcareandlifeinsurance.In2004,BB&Tamendedthisplantoeliminatethesubsidy

forthoseemployeesretiringafterDecember31,2004.BB&Talsoreducedthesubsidypaidtoemployeeswhoretiredon

orbeforeDecember31,2004,wereage55yearsorolder,andhadatleasttenyearsofservice.Forthoseemployees,the

subsidyisbaseduponyearsofserviceoftheemployeeatthetimeofretirement.Theseplansandtheirobligationsarenot

materialtoBB&T’sfinancialstatements.
NOTE15.CommitmentsandContingencies
BB&Tutilizesavarietyoffinancialinstrumentstomeetthefinancingneedsofclientsandtoreduceexposureto
fluctuationsininterestrates.Thesefinancialinstrumentsincludecommitmentstoextendcredit,lettersofcreditand

financialguaranteesandderivatives.BB&Talsohascommitmentstofundcertainaffordablehousinginvestmentsand

contingentliabilitiesrelatedtocertainsoldloans.
Commitmentstoextend,originateorpurchasecreditareprimarilylinesofcredittobusinessesandconsumersandhave
specifiedratesandmaturitydates.Manyofthesecommitmentsalsohaveadversechangeclauses,whichallowBB&Tto

cancelthecommitmentduetodeteriorationintheborrowers’creditworthiness.
LettersofcreditandfinancialguaranteeswrittenareunconditionalcommitmentsissuedbyBB&Ttoguaranteethe
performanceofacustomertoathirdparty.Theseguaranteesareprimarilyissuedtosupportpublicandprivateborrowing

arrangements,includingcommercialpaperissuance,bondfinancingandsimilartransactions,themajorityofwhichareto

taxexemptentities.Thecreditriskinvolvedintheissuanceoftheseguaranteesisessentiallythesameasthatinvolvedin
132extendingloanstoclientsandassuch,theinstrumentsarecollateralizedwhennecessary.AsofDecember31,2011and
2010,BB&Thadissuedlettersofcredittotaling$6.1billionand$7.3billion,respectively.Thecarryingamountofthe

liabilityforsuchguaranteeswas$27millionand$41millionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.
Aderivativeisafinancialinstrumentthatderivesitscashflows,andthereforeitsvalue,byreferencetoanunderlying
instrument,indexorinterestrate.ForadditionaldisclosuresrelatedtoBB&T’sderivativesrefertoNote19.
Intheordinarycourseofbusiness,BB&Tindemnifiesitsofficersanddirectorstothefullestextentpermittedbylaw
againstliabilitiesarisingfrompendinglitigation.BB&Talsoissuesstandardrepresentationandwarrantiesin

underwritingagreements,mergerandacquisitionagreements,loansales,brokerageactivitiesandothersimilar

arrangements.CounterpartiesinmanyoftheseindemnificationarrangementsprovidesimilarindemnificationstoBB&T.

Althoughtheseagreementsoftendonotspecifylimitations,BB&Tdoesnotbelievethatanypaymentsrelatedtothese

guaranteeswouldmateriallychangethefinancialpositionorresultsofoperationsofBB&T.
Mergerandacquisitionagreementsofbusinessesotherthanfinancialinstitutionsoccasionallyincludeadditional
incentivestotheacquiredentitiestooffsetthelossoffuturecashflowspreviouslyreceivedthroughownershippositions.

Typically,theseincentivesarebasedontheacquiredentity’scontributiontoBB&T’searningscomparedtoagreed-upon

amounts.Whenoffered,theseincentivesaretypicallyissuedfortermsofthreetofiveyears.Ascertainprovisionsofthese

agreementsdonotspecifydollarlimitations,itisnotpossibletoquantifythemaximumexposureresultingfromthese

agreements.However,basedonrecentpayoutsandcurrentprojections,anypaymentsmadeinrelationtothese

agreementsarenotexpectedtobematerialtoBB&T’sresultsofoperations,financialpositionorcashflows.
InconnectionwiththeColonialacquisition,BranchBankenteredintolosssharingagreementswiththeFDICrelatedto
certainassetsacquired.Pursuanttothetermsoftheselosssharingagreements,theFDIC’sobligationtoreimburseBranch

Bankforlosseswithrespecttocertainloans,otherrealestateowned(“OREO”),certaininvestmentsecuritiesandother

assets(collectively,“coveredassets”),beginswiththefirstdollaroflossincurred.Thetermsofthelosssharingagreement

withrespecttocertainnon-agencymortgage-backedsecuritiesprovidesthatBranchBankwillbereimbursedbytheFDIC

for95%ofanyandalllosses.Allothercoveredassetsaresubjecttoastatedthresholdof$5billionthatprovidesforthe

FDICtoreimburseBranchBankfor(1)80%oflossesincurredupto$5billionand(2)95%oflossesinexcessof$5

billion.Gainsandrecoveriesoncoveredassetswilloffsetlosses,orbepaidtotheFDIC,attheapplicablelossshare

percentageatthetimeofrecovery.Thelosssharingagreementapplicabletosinglefamilyresidentialmortgageloans

expiresin2019,andprovidesforFDIClosssharingandBranchBankreimbursementtotheFDIC.Thelosssharing

agreementapplicabletocommercialloansandothercoveredassetsexpiresin2014,however,BranchBankmust

reimbursetheFDICforgainsandrecoveriesthroughAugust2017.
BB&Tinvestsincertainaffordablehousingandhistoricbuildingrehabilitationprojectsthroughoutitsmarketareaasa
meansofsupportinglocalcommunities,andreceivestaxcreditsrelatedtotheseinvestments.BB&Ttypicallyactsasa

limitedpartnerintheseinvestmentsanddoesnotexertcontrolovertheoperatingorfinancialpoliciesofthepartnerships.

BranchBanktypicallyprovidesfinancingduringtheconstructionanddevelopmentoftheproperties;however,permanent

financingisgenerallyobtainedfromindependentthirdpartiesuponcompletionofaproject.AsofDecember31,2011and

2010,BB&Thadinvestmentsof$1.2billionrelatedtotheseprojects,whichareincludedasotherassetsonthe

ConsolidatedBalanceSheets.BB&T’soutstandingcommitmentstofundaffordablehousinginvestmentstotaled$394

millionand$334millionatDecember31,2011and2010,respectively,whichareincludedasotherliabilitiesonthe

ConsolidatedBalanceSheets.AsofDecember31,2011and2010,BB&Thadoutstandingloancommitmentstothese

fundsof$178millionand$135million,respectively.Oftheseamounts,$76millionand$36millionhadbeenfundedat

December31,2011and2010,respectively,andwereincludedinloansandleasesontheConsolidatedBalanceSheets.

BB&T’smaximumriskexposurerelatedtotheseinvestmentstotaled$1.4billionand$1.3billionatDecember31,2011

and2010,respectively.
BB&Thassoldcertainmortgage-relatedloansthatcontainrecourseprovisions.TheseprovisionsgenerallyrequireBB&T
toreimbursetheinvestorforashareofanylossthatisincurredafterthedisposaloftheproperty.BB&Talsoissues

standardrepresentationsandwarrantiesrelatedtomortgageloansalestogovernment-sponsoredentities.RefertoNote7

foradditionaldisclosuresrelatedtotheseexposures.
BB&Thasinvestmentsandfuturefundingcommitmentstocertainventurecapitalfunds.AsofDecember31,2011and2010,
BB&Thadinvestmentsof$261millionand$266millionrelatedtotheseventures,respectively.AsofDecember31,2011and

2010,BB&Thadfuturefundingcommitmentsof$129millionand$185million,respectively.BB&T’sriskexposurerelatingto

suchcommitmentsisgenerallylimitedtotheamountofinvestmentsandfuturefundingcommitmentsmade.
133LegalProceedings
ThenatureofthebusinessofBB&T’sbankingandothersubsidiariesordinarilyresultsinacertainamountofclaims,litigation,
investigationsandlegalandadministrativecasesandproceedings,allofwhichareconsideredincidentaltothenormalconduct

ofbusiness.BB&Tbelievesithasmeritoriousdefensestotheclaimsassertedagainstitinitscurrentlyoutstandinglegal

proceedingsand,withrespecttosuchlegalproceedings,intendstocontinuetodefenditselfvigorously,litigatingorsettling

casesaccordingtomanagement’sjudgmentastowhatisinthebestinterestsofBB&Tanditsshareholders.
TheCompanyisadefendantinthreeseparatecasesprimarilychallengingtheCompany’sdailyorderingofdebit
transactionspostedtocustomercheckingaccountsfortheperiodfrom2003to2010.Theplaintiffshaverequestedclass

actiontreatment,however,noclasshasbeencertified.ThecourtinitiallydeniedmotionsbytheCompanytodismissthese

casesandcompelthemtobesubmittedtoindividualarbitration.TheCompanythenfiledappealsinallthreematters.

Therehavebeennumeroussubsequentproceduraldevelopments,includinganappealtotheUnitedStatesSupremeCourt

inonematterwhichresultedinadecisionthatbenefitedtheCompany.Nevertheless,atpresenttheissuesraisedbythese

motionsand/orappealsremainundecided.Ifthemotionsorappealsareultimatelygranted,theywouldprecludeclass

actiontreatment.Evenifthoseappealsaredenied,theCompanybelievesithasmeritoriousdefensesagainstthesematters,

includingclasscertification.Becauseoftheseappeals,andbecausethesecasesareinpreliminaryproceedingsandno

damageshavebeenspecified,nospecificlossorrangeoflosscancurrentlybedetermined.
Onatleastaquarterlybasis,BB&Tassessesitsliabilitiesandcontingenciesinconnectionwithoutstandinglegal
proceedingsutilizingthelatestinformationavailable.ForthosematterswhereitisprobablethatBB&Twillincuraloss

andtheamountofthelosscanbereasonablyestimated,BB&Trecordsaliabilityinitsconsolidatedfinancialstatements.

Theselegalreservesmaybeincreasedordecreasedtoreflectanyrelevantdevelopmentsonatleastaquarterlybasis.For

othermatters,wherealossisnotprobableortheamountofthelossisnotestimable,BB&Thasnotaccruedlegal

reserves.Whiletheoutcomeoflegalproceedingsisinherentlyuncertain,basedoninformationcurrentlyavailable,advice

ofcounselandavailableinsurancecoverage,BB&T’smanagementbelievesthatitsestablishedlegalreservesareadequate

andtheliabilitiesarisingfromBB&T’slegalproceedingswillnothaveamaterialadverseeffectontheconsolidated

financialposition,consolidatedresultsofoperationsorconsolidatedcashflowsofBB&T.However,intheeventof

unexpectedfuturedevelopments,itispossiblethattheultimateresolutionofthesematters,ifunfavorable,maybe

materialtoBB&T’sconsolidatedfinancialposition,consolidatedresultsofoperationsorconsolidatedcashflows.
NOTE16.RegulatoryRequirementsandOtherRestrictions
BranchBankandBB&TFSBarerequiredbytheBoardofGovernorsoftheFederalReserveSystemtomaintainreserve
balancesintheformofvaultcashordepositswiththeFederalReserveBankbasedonspecifiedpercentagesofcertain

deposittypes,subjecttovariousadjustments.AtDecember31,2011,thenetreserverequirementamountedto$237

million.BranchBankissubjecttolawsandregulationsthatlimittheamountofdividendsitcanpay.Inaddition,bothBB&Tand
BranchBankaresubjecttovariousregulatoryrestrictionsrelatingtothepaymentofdividends,includingrequirementsto

maintaincapitalatoraboveregulatoryminimums,andtoremain“well-capitalized”underthepromptcorrectiveaction

regulations.BB&Tdoesnotexpectthatanyoftheselaws,regulationsorpolicieswillmateriallyaffecttheabilityof

BranchBanktopaydividends.
BB&TissubjecttovariousregulatorycapitalrequirementsadministeredbytheFederalbankingagencies.Failuretomeet
minimumcapitalrequirementscaninitiatecertainmandatory—andpossiblyadditionaldiscretionary—actionsby

regulatorsthat,ifundertaken,couldhaveadirectmaterialeffectonBB&T’sfinancialstatements.Undercapitaladequacy

guidelinesandtheregulatoryframeworkforpromptcorrectiveaction,theCorporationmustmeetspecificcapital

guidelinesthatinvolvequantitativemeasuresofBB&T’sassets,liabilitiesandcertainoff-balance-sheetitemscalculated

pursuanttoregulatorydirectives.BB&T’scapitalamountsandclassificationalsoaresubjecttoqualitativejudgmentsby

theregulatorsaboutcomponents,riskweightingsandotherfactors.BB&Tisinfullcompliancewiththeserequirements.

Bankingregulationsalsoidentifyfivecapitalcategoriesforinsureddepositoryinstitutions:well-capitalized,adequately

capitalized,undercapitalized,significantlyundercapitalizedandcriticallyundercapitalized.AtDecember31,2011and

2010,BB&TandBranchBankwereclassifiedas“well-capitalized”.
QuantitativemeasuresestablishedbyregulationtoensurecapitaladequacyrequireBB&Ttomaintainminimumamounts
andratiosoftotalandTier1capital(asdefinedintheregulations)torisk-weightedassets(asdefined),andofTier1

capitaltoaveragetangibleassets(leverageratio).
134ThefollowingtableprovidessummaryinformationregardingregulatorycapitalforBB&TandBranchBankasof
December31,2011and2010:
December31,2011
December31,2010
ActualCapital
CapitalRequirements
ActualCapital
CapitalRequirements
RatioAmountMinimumWell-CapitalizedRatioAmountMinimumWell-Capitalized(Dollarsinmillions)
Tier1Capital:
BB&T12.5%$14,913$4,789$7,18411.8%$13,959$4,725$7,088

BranchBank13.415,2744,5676,85113.014,6504,4996,749
TotalCapital:
BB&T15.718,8029,57811,97315.518,3199,45011,813

BranchBank15.617,8559,13511,41815.517,4178,99811,248
LeverageCapital:
BB&T9.014,9136,6148,2679.113,9596,1347,667

BranchBank9.515,2744,8018,0029.914,6504,4257,375
Asanapprovedseller/servicer,BranchBankisrequiredtomaintainminimumlevelsofshareholders’equity,asspecified
byvariousagencies,includingtheUnitedStatesDepartmentofHousingandUrbanDevelopment,GovernmentNational

MortgageAssociation,FederalHomeLoanMortgageCorporationandFederalNationalMortgageAssociation.At

December31,2011and2010,BranchBank’sequitywasaboveallrequiredlevels.
AtDecember31,2011and2010,BB&Thadsegregatedcashdepositstotaling$20millionand$309million,respectively.
Thesedepositsrelatetomoniesheldfortheexclusivebenefitofclients,primarilyatBB&T’sbroker/dealersubsidiaries.
NOTE17.ParentCompanyFinancialStatements
ParentCompany
CondensedBalanceSheets
December31,2011and2010
20112010(Dollarsinmillions)
Assets:Cashandduefrombanks$3,564$212

Securitiesavailableforsaleatfairvalue29104

Securitiesheldtomaturity40—

Investmentinbankingsubsidiaries20,85320,187

Investmentinothersubsidiaries1,5721,485

Advancesto/receivablesfrombankingsubsidiaries6153,065

Advancesto/receivablesfromothersubsidiaries2,3922,213

Otherassets268331
Totalassets$29,333$27,597
LiabilitiesandShareholders’Equity:
Short-termborrowedfunds$296$806

Short-termborrowedfundsduetosubsidiaries723

Dividendspayable112104

Accountspayableandotherliabilities116124

Long-termdebt7,9306,254

Long-termdebtduetosubsidiaries3,3273,808
Totalliabilities11,85311,099
Totalshareholders’equity17,48016,498
Totalliabilitiesandshareholders’equity$29,333$27,597
135ParentCompany
CondensedIncomeStatements
YearsEndedDecember31,2011,2010and2009
201120102009(Dollarsinmillions)
Income:Dividendsfrombankingsubsidiaries$620$345$459

Dividendsfromothersubsidiaries278321306

Interestandotherincomefromsubsidiaries10713889

Otherincome843
Totalincome1,013808857
Expenses:Interestexpense334445302

Otherexpenses343816
Totalexpenses368483318
Incomebeforeincometaxesandequityinundistributed
earningsofsubsidiaries645325539
Incometaxbenefit266042
Incomebeforeequityinundistributedearningsofsubsidiaries671385581

Equityinundistributedearningsofsubsidiariesinexcessof
dividendsfromsubsidiaries661469296
Netincome1,332854877
Noncontrollinginterests433824

Dividendsandaccretiononpreferredstock——124
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders
$1,289$816$729136ParentCompany
CondensedStatementsofCashFlows
YearsEndedDecember31,2011,2010and2009
201120102009(Dollarsinmillions)
CashFlowsFromOperatingActivities:
Netincome$1,332$854$877

Adjustmentstoreconcilenetincometonetcashprovidedby
operatingactivities:
Equityinearningsofsubsidiariesinexcessofdividends
fromsubsidiaries(661)(469)(296)
Decrease(increase)inotherassets63(147)(41)

(Decrease)increaseinaccountspayableandaccrued
liabilities(3)(24)50
Other,net20(65)(11)
Netcashfromoperatingactivities751149579
CashFlowsFromInvestingActivities:
Proceedsfromsales,callsandmaturitiesofsecuritiesavailable
forsale498733
Purchasesofsecuritiesavailableforsale(48)(8)(43)

Proceedsfrommaturities,callsandpaydownsofsecuritiesheldto
maturity24——
Investmentinsubsidiaries(12)(113)(2,608)

Advancestosubsidiaries(20,306)(37,341)(61,087)

Proceedsfromrepaymentofadvancestosubsidiaries22,63737,02861,345
Netcashfrominvestingactivities2,344(347)(2,360)
CashFlowsFromFinancingActivities:
Netincreaseinlong-termdebt1,1217653,651

Netdecreaseinshort-termborrowedfunds(509)(198)(705)

Netincreaseinadvancesfromsubsidiaries693—

Netproceedsfromcommonstockissued221102,727

Retirementofpreferredstockandwarrant——(3,201)

Cashdividendspaidoncommonandpreferredstock(446)(415)(820)
Netcashfromfinancingactivities2572651,652
NetIncrease(Decrease)inCashandCashEquivalents3,35267(129)

CashandCashEquivalentsatBeginningofYear212145274
CashandCashEquivalentsatEndofYear$3,564$212$145
137NOTE18.FairValueDisclosures
BB&Tcarriesvariousassetsandliabilitiesatfairvaluebasedonapplicableaccountingstandards.Inaddition,BB&Thas
electedtoaccountforprimeresidentialmortgageandcommercialmortgageloansoriginatedasloansheldforsaleatfair

valueinaccordancewithapplicableaccountingstandards(the“FairValueOption”).Accountingstandardsdefinefair

valueastheexchangepricethatwouldbereceivedonthemeasurementdatetosellanassetorthepricepaidtotransfera

liabilityintheprincipalormostadvantageousmarketavailabletotheentityinanorderlytransactionbetweenmarket

participants.Thesestandardsalsoestablishedathreelevelfairvaluehierarchythatdescribestheinputsthatareusedto

measureassetsandliabilities.Level1assetandliabilityfairvaluesarebasedonquotedpricesinactivemarketsfor

identicalassetsandliabilities.Level2assetandliabilityfairvaluesarebasedonobservableinputsthatinclude:quoted

marketpricesforsimilarassetsorliabilities;quotedmarketpricesthatarenotinanactivemarket;orotherinputsthatare

observableinthemarketandcanbecorroboratedbyobservablemarketdataforsubstantiallythefulltermoftheassetsor

liabilities.Level3assetsandliabilitiesarefinancialinstrumentswhosevalueiscalculatedbytheuseofpricingmodels

and/ordiscountedcashflowmethodologies,aswellasfinancialinstrumentsforwhichthedeterminationoffairvalue

requiressignificantmanagementjudgmentorestimation.Thesemethodologiesmayresultinasignificantportionofthe

fairvaluebeingderivedfromunobservabledata.
Assetsandliabilitiesmeasuredatfairvalueonarecurringbasis,includingfinancialinstrumentsforwhichBB&Thas
electedtheFairValueOptionaresummarizedbelow:
FairValueMeasurementsforAssetsand
LiabilitiesMeasuredonaRecurringBasis
12/31/2011Level1
Level2
Level3
(Dollarsinmillions)
Assets:Tradingsecurities$534$298$235$1

Securitiesavailableforsale:
GSEsecurities306—306—

Mortgage-backedsecuritiesissuedby
GSE18,132—18,132—
Statesandpoliticalsubdivisions1,923—1,923—

Non-agencymortgage-backedsecurities368—368—

Othersecurities761—

Coveredsecurities1,577—593984
Loansheldforsale3,736—3,736—

Residentialmortgageservicingrights563——563

Derivativeassets:(1)
Interestratecontracts1,51811,45760

Foreignexchangecontracts7—7—
Venturecapitalandsimilarinvestments(1)(2)261——261
Totalassets$28,932$305$26,758$1,869
Liabilities:Derivativeliabilities:(1)
Interestratecontracts$1,498$—$1,497$1

Foreignexchangecontracts8—8—
Short-termborrowedfunds(3)118—118—
Totalliabilities$1,624$—$1,623$1
138FairValueMeasurementsforAssetsand
LiabilitiesMeasuredonaRecurringBasis
12/31/2010Level1
Level2
Level3
(Dollarsinmillions)
Assets:Tradingsecurities$633$276$346$11

Securitiesavailableforsale:
GSEsecurities103—103—

Mortgage-backedsecuritiesissuedbyGSE18,344—18,344—

Statesandpoliticalsubdivisions1,909—1,790119

Non-agencymortgage-backedsecurities515—515—

Othersecurities7591476057

Coveredsecurities1,539—585954
Loansheldforsale(4)3,176—3,176—

Residentialmortgageservicingrights830——830

Derivativeassets:(1)
Interestratecontracts926191312

Foreignexchangecontracts7—7—
Venturecapitalandsimilarinvestments(1)(2)266——266
Totalassets(4)$29,007$424$26,384$2,199
Liabilities:Derivativeliabilities:(1)
Interestratecontracts$996$10$949$37

Foreignexchangecontracts6—6—
Short-termborrowedfunds(3)233—233—
Totalliabilities$1,235$10$1,188$37
(1)TheseamountsarereflectedinotherassetsandotherliabilitiesontheConsolidatedBalanceSheets.

(2)Basedonananalysisofthenatureandrisksoftheseinvestments,BB&Thasdeterminedthatpresentingthese
investmentsasasingleclassisappropriate.
(3)Short-termborrowedfundsreflectsecuritiessoldshortpositions.

(4)Excludesloansheldforsalecarriedatthelowerofcostormarket.
ThefollowingdiscussionfocusesonthevaluationtechniquesandsignificantinputsusedbyBB&Tindeterminingthe
Level2andLevel3fairvaluesofeachsignificantclassofassetsandliabilities.
BB&Tgenerallyutilizesathird-partypricingserviceindeterminingthefairvalueofitssecuritiesportfolio.Fairvalue
measurementsarederivedfrommarket-basedpricingmatricesthatweredevelopedusingobservableinputsthatinclude

benchmarkyields,benchmarksecurities,reportedtrades,offers,bids,issuerspreadsandbrokerquotes.Asdescribedby

securitytypebelow,additionalinputsmaybeused,orsomeinputsmaynotbeapplicable.Intheeventthatmarket

observabledatawasnotavailable,whichwouldgenerallyoccurduetothelackofanactivemarketforagivensecurity,

thevaluationofthesecuritywouldbesubjectiveandmayinvolvesubstantialjudgmentbymanagement.
Specificvaluationtechniquesandinputsusedindeterminingthefairvalueofeachsignificantclassofassetsandliabilities
follows:Tradingsecurities:
Tradingsecuritiesarecomposedofalltypesofdebtandequitysecurities,butthemajorityconsistsof
debtsecuritiesissuedbytheU.S.Treasury,U.S.government-sponsoredentities,orstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions.The

valuationtechniquesusedfortheseinvestmentsaremorefullydiscussedbelow.
GSEsecuritiesandMortgage-backedsecuritiesissuedbyGSE:
ThesearedebtsecuritiesissuedbyU.S.government
sponsoredentities.GSEpass-throughsecuritiesarevaluedusingmarket-basedpricingmatricesthatarebasedon

observableinputsincludingbenchmarkTBAsecuritypricingandyieldcurvesthatwereestimatedbasedonU.S.Treasury

yieldsandcertainfloatingrateindices.Thepricingmatricesforthesesecuritiesmayalsogiveconsiderationtopool-

specificdatasupplieddirectlybytheGSE.GSEcollateralizedmortgageobligations(“CMOs”)arevaluedusingmarket-
139basedpricingmatricesthatarebasedonobservableinputsincludingoffers,bids,reportedtrades,dealerquotesandmarket
researchreports,thecharacteristicsofaspecifictranche,marketconventionprepaymentspeedsandbenchmarkyield

curvesasdescribedabove.
Statesandpoliticalsubdivisions:
Thesesecuritiesarevaluedusingmarket-basedpricingmatricesthatarebasedon
observableinputsincludingMSRBreportedtrades,issuerspreads,materialeventnoticesandbenchmarkyieldcurves.
Non-agencymortgage-backedsecurities:
Pricingmatricesforthesesecuritiesarebasedonobservableinputsincluding
offers,bids,reportedtrades,dealerquotesandmarketresearchreports,thecharacteristicsofaspecifictranche,market

conventionprepaymentspeedsandbenchmarkyieldcurvesasdescribedabove.
Othersecurities:
Thesesecuritiesconsistprimarilyofequities,mutualfundsandcorporatebonds.Thesesecuritiesare
valuedbasedonareviewofquotedmarketpricesforidenticalandsimilarassetsaswellasthroughthevariousother

inputsdiscussedpreviously.
Coveredsecurities:
CoveredsecuritiesarecoveredbyFDIClosssharingagreementsandconsistofre-remicnon-agency
mortgage-backedsecurities,municipalsecuritiesandnon-agencymortgage-backedsecurities.Thecoveredstateand

politicalsubdivisionsecuritiesandcertainnon-agencymortgage-backedsecuritiesarevaluedinamannersimilartothe

approachdescribedabovefortheseassetclasses.There-remicnon-agencymortgage-backedsecurities,whichare

categorizedasLevel3,werevaluedbasedonbrokerdealerquotesthatreflectedcertainunobservablemarketinputs.
Loansheldforsale:
BB&Toriginatescertainmortgageloanstobesoldtoinvestors.Theseloansarecarriedatfairvalue
basedonBB&T’selectionoftheFairValueOption.Thefairvalueisprimarilybasedonquotedmarketpricesfor

securitiesbackedbysimilartypesofloans.Thechangesinfairvalueoftheseassetsarelargelydrivenbychangesin

interestratessubsequenttoloanfundingandchangesinthefairvalueofservicingassociatedwiththemortgageloanheld

forsale.
Residentialmortgageservicingrights:
BB&Testimatesthefairvalueofresidentialmortgageservicingrights(“MSRs”)
usinganoptionadjustedspread(“OAS”)valuationmodeltoprojectMSRcashflowsovermultipleinterestratescenarios,

whicharethendiscountedatrisk-adjustedrates.TheOASmodelconsidersportfoliocharacteristics,contractually

specifiedservicingfees,prepaymentassumptions,delinquencyrates,latecharges,otherancillaryrevenue,coststoservice

andothereconomicfactors.Whenavailable,fairvalueestimatesandassumptionsarecomparedtoobservablemarketdata

andtorecentmarketactivityandactualportfolioexperience.
Derivativeassetsandliabilities:
BB&Tusesderivativestomanagevariousfinancialrisks.Thefairvaluesofderivative
financialinstrumentsaredeterminedbasedonquotedmarketprices,dealerquotesandinternalpricingmodelsthatare

primarilysensitivetomarketobservabledata.Thefairvalueofinterestratelockcommitments,whicharerelatedto

mortgageloancommitments,isbasedonquotedmarketpricesadjustedforcommitmentsthatBB&Tdoesnotexpectto

fundandincludesthevalueattributabletothenetservicingfee.
Venturecapitalandsimilarinvestments:
BB&Thasventurecapitalandsimilarinvestmentsthatarecarriedatfairvalue.
Inmanycasestherearenoobservablemarketvaluesfortheseinvestmentsandthereforemanagementmustestimatethe

fairvaluebasedonacomparisonoftheoperatingperformanceofthecompanytomultiplesinthemarketplaceforsimilar

entities.Thisanalysisrequiressignificantjudgmentandactualvaluesinasalecoulddiffermateriallyfromthose

estimated.Short-termborrowedfunds:
Short-termborrowedfundsrepresentdebtsecuritiessoldshort.Theseareenteredinto
throughBB&T’sbrokeragesubsidiaryScott&Stringfellow,LLC.Thesetradesareexecutedasahedgingstrategyforthe

purposesofsupportinginstitutionalandretailclienttradingactivities.
140ThetablesbelowpresentareconciliationfortheyearsendedDecember31,2011,2010and2009,respectively,forLevel3
assetsandliabilitiesthataremeasuredatfairvalueonarecurringbasis.
FairValueMeasurementsUsingSignificantUnobservableInputs
YearEndedDecember31,2011
TradingStates&
PoliticalSubdivisionsOtherSecuritiesCoveredSecuritiesResidentialMortgageServicingRightsNetDerivativesVentureCapitaland
SimilarInvestments(Dollarsinmillions)
BalanceatJanuary1,2011$11$119$7$954$830$(25)$266
Totalrealizedandunrealizedgainsor
losses:Includedinearnings:
Interestincome———54———

Mortgagebankingincome————(492)151—

Othernoninterestincome(3)—————64
Includedinothercomprehensive
income(loss)—(9)(1)24———
Purchases7—————61

Issuances————225110—

Sales(14)—————(112)

Settlements—(53)(1)(48)—(177)(15)

TransfersintoLevel3——————1

TransfersoutofLevel3—(57)(5)———(4)
BalanceatDecember31,2011$1$—$—$984$563$59$261
Changeinunrealizedgains(losses)includedin
earningsfortheperiod,attributabletoassets

andliabilitiesstillheldatDecember31,2011$—$—$—$54$(341)$59$39
FairValueMeasurementsUsingSignificantUnobservableInputs
YearEndedDecember31,2010
TradingStates&
PoliticalSubdivisionsOtherSecuritiesCoveredSecuritiesResidentialMortgageServicingRightsNetDerivativesVentureCapitaland
SimilarInvestments(Dollarsinmillions)
BalanceatJanuary1,2010$93$210$9$668$832$(20)$281
Totalrealizedandunrealizedgainsorlosses:
Includedinearnings:
Interestincome———61———

Mortgagebankingincome————(267)246—

Othernoninterestincome(1)—————35
Includedinothercomprehensive
income(loss)—12(1)225———
Purchases,issuancesandsettlements(5)(87)(1)—265(251)(50)

TransfersoutofLevel3(76)(16)—————
BalanceatDecember31,2010$11$119$7$954$830$(25)$266
Changeinunrealizedgains(losses)includedin
earningsfortheperiod,attributabletoassets

andliabilitiesstillheldatDecember31,2010$(2)$—$—$61$(138)$(25)$9
141FairValueMeasurementsUsingSignificantUnobservableInputs
YearEndedDecember31,2009
TradingStates&
PoliticalSubdivisionsNon-agencymortgage-backedsecuritiesOtherSecuritiesCoveredSecuritiesResidentialMortgageServicingRightsNetDerivativesVentureCapitaland
SimilarInvestments(Dollarsinmillions)
BalanceatJanuary1,2009$4$—$1,098$1$—$370$37$182
Totalrealizedandunrealizedgainsor
losses:
Includedinearnings:
Interestincome————20———

Mortgagebankingincome—————64222—

Othernoninterestincome(2)——————6
Includedinothercomprehensive
income(loss)—(12)142—19———
Purchases,issuancesandsettlements91(6)(179)(1)(3)398(259)93

TransfersintoLevel3fromColonial
acquisition————632—(20)—
Transfersinand/oroutofLevel3—228(1,061)9————
BalanceatDecember31,2009$93$210$—$9$668$832$(20)$281
Changeinunrealizedgains(losses)
includedinearningsfortheperiod,

attributabletoassetsandliabilities

stillheldatDecember31,2009$(3)$—$—$—$20$190$(20)$(2)
BB&T’spolicyistorecognizetransfersinandtransfersoutofLevels1,2and3asoftheendofareportingperiod.

DuringtheyearendedDecember31,2011,BB&Ttransferredcertainstateandpoliticalsubdivisionsecuritiesoutof

Level3asaresultofmanagement’sdecisiontoreclassifythemfromavailableforsaletoheldtomaturityclassification,

whichisnotrecordedatfairvalue.DuringtheyearendedDecember31,2010,transfersfromLevel3toLevel2werethe

resultofincreasedobservablemarketactivityforthesesecurities.DuringtheyearendedDecember31,2009,BB&T

transferredcertaintradingandauctionratesecuritiesissuedbystateandpoliticalsubdivisionsintoLevel3fromLevel2

asaresultofdecreasedmarketactivityforthesetypesofsecurities.IncludedintransfersintoLevel3during2009are

certaincoveredsecuritiesandnetderivativesthatwereacquiredinconnectionwiththeColonialacquisition.Therewere

nogainsorlossesrecognizedasaresultofthetransfersofsecuritiesduringtheyearsendedDecember31,2011,2010or

2009.TherewerenosignificanttransfersofsecuritiesbetweenLevel1andLevel2fortheyearsendedDecember31,

2011or2010.
BB&Thasinvestmentsinventurecapitalfundsandothersimilarinvestmentsthataremeasuredatfairvaluebasedonthe
investment’snetassetvalue.Thesignificantinvestmentstrategiesfortheseventuresareprimarilyequityandsubordinated

debtinprivately-heldmiddlemarketcompanies.Themajorityoftheseinvestmentsarenotredeemableandhavevarying

datesforwhichtheunderlyingassetsareexpectedtobeliquidatedbydistributionthrough2021.AsofDecember31,

2011,restrictionsontheabilitytoselltheinvestmentsinclude,butarenotlimitedto,consentofamajoritymemberor

generalpartnerapprovalfortransferofownership.Therewerenoinvestmentsprobableofsaleforlessthannetasset

valueatDecember31,2011.
Thenetrealizedandunrealizedgains(losses)reportedformortgageservicingrightsassetsincludesadjustmentsreducing
thevalue$341millionandtherealizationofexpectedresidentialmortgageservicingrightscashflowsof$151millionfor

theyearendedDecember31,2011.FortheyearendedDecember31,2010,thenetrealizedandunrealizedgains(losses)

reportedformortgageservicingrightsassetsincludesanadjustmentreducingthevalue$138millionandtherealizationof

expectedresidentialmortgageservicingrightscashflowsof$129million.FortheyearendedDecember31,2009,thenet

realizedandunrealizedgains(losses)reportedformortgageservicingrightsassetsincludesanadjustmentincreasingthe

value$190millionlesstherealizationofexpectedresidentialmortgageservicingrightscashflowsof$126million.

BB&Tusesvariousderivativefinancialinstrumentstomitigatetheincomestatementeffectofchangesinfairvalue.

During2011,2010and2009,thederivativeinstrumentsproducedgainsof$394million,$196millionandlossesof$98

million,respectively,whichoffsetthevaluationadjustmentsrecorded.
142ThefollowingtabledetailsthefairvalueandunpaidprincipalbalanceofloansheldforsaleatDecember31,2011and
2010thatwereelectedtobecarriedatfairvalue.
December31,
20112010FairValueAggregateUnpaidPrincipalBalanceFairValue
LessAggregateUnpaidPrincipalBalanceFairValueAggregateUnpaidPrincipalBalanceFairValue
LessAggregateUnpaidPrincipalBalance(Dollarsinmillions)
Loansheldforsalereportedatfairvalue:
Total(1)(2)$3,736$3,652$84$3,176$3,192$(16)

Nonaccrualloans——————

Loans90daysormorepastdueandstill
accruinginterest———11—
(1)Thechangeinfairvalueisreflectedinmortgagebankingincome.

(2)December31,2010balanceexcludesloansheldforsalecarriedatthelowerofcostormarket.
BB&Tmayberequired,fromtimetotime,tomeasurecertainotherfinancialassetsatfairvalueonanonrecurringbasis.
AssetsmeasuredatfairvalueonanonrecurringbasisfortheyearsendedDecember31,2011and2010thatwerestillheldon

thebalancesheetatDecember31,2011and2010totaled$925millionand$2.0billion,respectively.TheDecember31,2011

amountconsistsof$389millionofimpairedloans,excludingcoveredloans,and$536millionofforeclosedrealestate,

excludingcoveredforeclosedrealestate,thatwereclassifiedasLevel3assets.TheDecember31,2010amountconsistsof

$705millionofimpairedloans,excludingcoveredloans,and$1.3billionofforeclosedrealestate,excludingcovered

foreclosedrealestate,thatwereclassifiedasLevel3assets.DuringtheyearsendedDecember31,2011and2010,BB&T

recorded$348millionand$602million,respectively,innegativevaluationadjustmentsofimpairedloansand$550million

and$496million,respectively,innegativevaluationadjustmentsofforeclosedrealestate.
Additionally,accountingstandardsrequirethedisclosureoftheestimatedfairvalueoffinancialinstrumentsthatarenot
recordedatfairvalue.Afinancialinstrumentisdefinedascash,evidenceofanownershipinterestinanentityoracontract

thatcreatesacontractualobligationorrighttodeliverorreceivecashoranotherfinancialinstrumentfromasecondentity.

ForthefinancialinstrumentsthatBB&Tdoesnotrecordatfairvalue,estimatesoffairvaluearemadeatapointintime,

basedonrelevantmarketdataandinformationaboutthefinancialinstrument.Fairvaluesarecalculatedbasedonthevalueof

onetradingunitwithoutregardtoanypremiumordiscountthatmayresultfromconcentrationsofownershipofafinancial

instrument,possibletaxramifications,estimatedtransactioncoststhatmayresultfrombulksalesortherelationshipbetween

variousfinancialinstruments.NoreadilyavailablemarketexistsforasignificantportionofBB&T’sfinancialinstruments.

Fairvalueestimatesfortheseinstrumentsarebasedoncurrenteconomicconditions,currencyandinterestraterisk

characteristics,lossexperienceandotherfactors.Manyoftheseestimatesinvolveuncertaintiesandmattersofsignificant

judgmentandcannotbedeterminedwithprecision.Therefore,thecalculatedfairvalueestimatesinmanyinstancescannotbe

substantiatedbycomparisontoindependentmarketsand,inmanycases,maynotberealizableinacurrentsaleofthe

instrument.Inaddition,changesinassumptionscouldsignificantlyaffectthesefairvalueestimates.Thefollowingmethods

andassumptionswereusedbyBB&Tinestimatingthefairvalueofthesefinancialinstruments.
Cashandcashequivalentsandsegregatedcashduefrombanks
:Fortheseshort-terminstruments,thecarryingamounts
areareasonableestimateoffairvalues.
Securitiesheldtomaturity:
Thefairvaluesofsecuritiesheldtomaturityarebasedonamarketapproachusingobservable
inputssuchasbenchmarkyieldsandsecurities,TBAprices,reportedtrades,issuerspreads,currentbidsandoffers,

monthlypaymentinformationandcollateralperformance.
Loansreceivable
:Thefairvaluesforloansareestimatedusingdiscountedcashflowanalyses,applyinginterestrates
currentlybeingofferedforloanswithsimilartermsandcreditquality,whicharedeemedtobeindicativeoforderly

transactionsinthecurrentmarket.Forcommercialloansandleases,internalcreditriskmodelsareusedtoadjustdiscount

ratesforriskmigrationandexpectedlosses.Forresidentialmortgageandotherconsumerloans,internalprepaymentrisk

modelsareusedtoadjustcontractualcashflows.Loansareaggregatedintopoolsofsimilartermsandcreditqualityand

discountedusingaLIBORbasedrate.Thecarryingamountsofaccruedinterestapproximatefairvalues.
143Depositliabilities
:Thefairvaluesfordemanddeposits,interest-checkingaccounts,savingsaccountsandcertainmoney
marketaccountsare,bydefinition,equaltotheamountpayableondemandatthereportingdate.Fairvaluesfor

certificatesofdepositareestimatedusingadiscountedcashflowcalculationthatappliescurrentinterestratestoaggregate

expectedmaturities.Inaddition,nonfinancialinstrumentssuchascoredepositintangiblesarenotrecordedatfairvalue.

BB&Thasdevelopedlong-termrelationshipswithitscustomersthroughitsdepositbaseandintheopinionof

management,theseitemsaddsignificantvaluetoBB&T.
Federalfundspurchased,securitiessoldunderrepurchaseagreementsandshort-termborrowedfunds
:Thecarrying
amountsofFederalfundspurchased,borrowingsunderrepurchaseagreementsandshort-termborrowedfunds

approximatetheirfairvalues.
Long-termdebt
:Thefairvaluesoflong-termdebtareestimatedbasedonquotedmarketpricesfortheinstrumentif
available,orforsimilarinstrumentsifnotavailable,orbyusingdiscountedcashflowanalyses,basedonBB&T’scurrent

incrementalborrowingratesforsimilartypesofinstruments.
Contractualcommitments
:Thefairvaluesofcommitmentsareestimatedusingthefeeschargedtoenterintosimilar
agreements,takingintoaccounttheremainingtermsoftheagreementsandthepresentcreditworthinessofthe

counterparties.Forfixed-rateloancommitments,fairvaluesalsoconsiderthedifferencebetweencurrentlevelsofinterest

ratesandthecommittedrates.Thefairvaluesofguaranteesandlettersofcreditareestimatedbasedonthecounterparties’

creditworthinessandaveragedefaultratesforloanproductswithsimilarrisks.Thefairvaluesofcommitmentstofund

affordablehousinginvestmentsareestimatedusingthenetpresentvalueoffuturecommitments.
ThefollowingisasummaryofthecarryingamountsandfairvaluesofthosefinancialassetsandliabilitiesthatBB&Thas
notrecordedatfairvalue:
December31,
20112010CarryingAmountFairValue
CarryingAmountFairValue
(Dollarsinmillions)
Financialassets:
Securitiesheldtomaturity(1)$14,094$14,098$—$—

Loansandleases(2)(3)105,213104,855101,380100,360
Financialliabilities:
Deposits124,939124,853107,213104,091

Long-termdebt21,80323,00121,73022,733
(1)Thecarryingvalueexcludesamountsdeferredinothercomprehensiveincomeresultingfromthetransferof
securitiesavailableforsaletosecuritiesheldtomaturity.
(2)December31,2010balanceincludesloansheldforsalecarriedatthelowerofcostormarket.

(3)Thecarryingvalueisnetoftheallowanceforloanandleaselosses.
ThefollowingisasummaryofthenotionalorcontractualamountsandfairvaluesofBB&T’soff-balancesheetfinancial
instrumentsasoftheperiodsindicated:
December31,
20112010Notional/ContractAmountFairValue
Notional/ContractAmountFairValue
(Dollarsinmillions)
Contractualcommitments:
Commitmentstoextend,originateorpurchase
credit$40,249$71$36,917$65
Residentialmortgageloanssoldwithrecourse1,31661,6246

Otherloanssoldwithrecourse4,520154,35219

Lettersofcreditandfinancialguaranteeswritten6,095277,29141

Commitmentstofundaffordablehousing
investments394386334316
144NOTE19.DerivativeFinancialInstruments
ThefollowingtablessetforthcertaininformationconcerningBB&T’sderivativefinancialinstrumentsandrelatedhedged
itemsasoftheperiodsindicated:
DerivativeClassificationsandHedgingRelationships
December31,2011
December31,2010
HedgedItemorNotionalFairValue
NotionalFairValue
TransactionAmountGain(1)
Loss(1)
AmountGain(1)
Loss(1)
(Dollarsinmillions)
CashFlowHedges:(2)
Interestratecontracts:
Payfixedswaps3monthLIBORfunding$5,750$—$(307)$5,950$6$(181)

Caps3monthLIBORfunding———200——
Total5,750—(307)6,1506(181)
NetInvestmentHedges:
Foreignexchangecontracts731—73—(2)
Total731—73—(2)
FairValueHedges:
Interestratecontracts:
ReceivefixedswapsandoptiontradesLong-termdebt2,556254—1,16025—

PayfixedswapsCommercialloans98—(5)54——

PayfixedswapsMunicipalsecurities355—(158)355—(75)
Total3,009254(163)1,56925(75)
NotDesignatedasHedges:
Client-relatedandotherriskmanagement:
Interestratecontracts:
Receivefixedswaps9,176703—9,696496(10)

Payfixedswaps9,255—(730)9,51412(530)

Otherswaps2,450—(6)3,3282(3)

Optiontrades1,00438(40)89729(30)

Futurescontracts240——1,7471—

Riskparticipations150——180——
Foreignexchangecontracts5756(8)4367(4)
Total22,850747(784)25,798547(577)
MortgageBanking:
Interestratecontracts:
Receivefixedswaps501—11——

Payfixedswaps16——35——

Interestratelockcommitments4,97760(1)3,92212(37)

Whenissuedsecurities,forwardrateagreementsandforward
commitments7,12510(88)7,717106(27)
Optiontrades705—40011—

Futurescontracts651—131—
Total12,30377(89)12,098130(64)
MortgageServicingRights:
Interestratecontracts:
Receivefixedswaps5,616154(1)3,22513(61)

Payfixedswaps4,6511(111)2,53615(7)

Optiontrades9,640273(51)6,095192(11)

Futurescontracts38——4,260—(10)

Whenissuedsecurities,forwardrateagreementsandforward
commitments3,65118—3,5825(14)
Total23,596446(163)19,698225(103)
Totalnonhedgingderivatives58,7491,270(1,036)57,594902(744)
TotalDerivatives$67,581$1,525$(1,506)$65,386$933$(1,002)
(1)DerivativesinagainpositionarerecordedasOtherassetsandderivativesinalosspositionarerecordedasOtherliabilitiesontheConsolidate
dBalanceSheet.
(2)Cashflowhedgesarehedgingthefirstunhedgedforecastedsettlementsassociatedwiththelistedhedgeditemdescriptions.
145TheEffectofDerivativeInstrumentsontheConsolidatedStatementsofIncome
YearsEndedDecember31,2011,2010and2009
EffectivePortion
Gainor(Loss)
RecognizedinOCI
Locationof
AmountsReclassified
(Gain)orLossReclassified
fromAOCIintoIncome
201120102009fromAOCIintoIncome
201120102009(Dollarsinmillions)
CashFlowHedges:
Interestratecontracts$(211)$(224)$146Totalinterestincome$(26)$(44)$(86)
Totalinterestexpense582037
$32$(24)$(49)
NetInvestmentHedges:
Foreignexchange
contracts$1$(4)$(11)$—$—$—
Gainor(Loss)
LocationofAmountsRecognizedinIncome
RecognizedinIncome
201120102009(Dollarsinmillions)
FairValueHedges:
InterestratecontractsTotalinterestexpense$300$170$177
Totalinterestincome(21)(19)(17)
$279$151$160
NotDesignatedasHedges:
Client-relatedandotherriskmanagement:
InterestratecontractsOtherincome$10$5$22

OtherderivativesOtherincome——(20)

ForeignexchangecontractsOtherincome66(1)
MortgageBanking:
InterestratecontractsMortgagebankingincome(70)3323
MortgageServicingRights:
InterestratecontractsMortgagebankingincome394196(98)
$340$240$(74)
Note:AllamountsforOtherComprehensiveIncome(“OCI”)andAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome(“AOCI”)

arestatedonapre-taxbasis.
BB&Tusesavarietyofderivativeinstrumentstomanageinterestrateandforeignexchangerisks.Theseinstruments
consistofinterest-rateswaps,swaptions,caps,floors,collars,financialforwardandfuturescontracts,when-issued

securities,foreignexchangecontractsandoptionswrittenandpurchased.Aderivativeisafinancialinstrumentthat

derivesitscashflows,andthereforeitsvalue,byreferencetoanunderlyinginstrument,indexorreferencedinterestrate.

Therearefiveareasofriskmanagement:balancesheetmanagement,mortgagebankingoperations,mortgageservicing

rights,netinvestmentinaforeignsubsidiaryandclient-relatedandotherriskmanagementactivities.Noportionofthe

changeinfairvalueofthederivativehasbeenexcludedfromeffectivenesstesting.Theineffectiveportionwasimmaterial

forallyearspresented.
CashFlowHedges
BB&T’sfloatingratebusinessloans,overnightfunding,FHLBadvances,medium-termbanknotesandlong-termdebt
exposeittovariabilityincashflowsforinterestpayments.Theriskmanagementobjectiveforthesefloatingrateassets

andliabilitiesistohedgethevariabilityintheinterestpaymentsandreceiptsonfuturecashflowsforforecasted

transactions.Theseforecastedtransactionsincludeinterestreceiptsoncommercialloansandinterestpaymentson3

monthLIBORfunding.AllofBB&T’scurrentcashflowhedgesarehedgingexposuretovariabilityinfuturecashflows

forforecastedtransactionsrelatedtothepaymentofvariableinterestonthenexistingfinancialinstruments.
146Foraqualifyingcashflowhedge,theportionofchangesinthefairvalueofthederivativesthathasbeenhighlyeffectiveis
recognizedinothercomprehensiveincome(loss)untiltherelatedcashflowsfromthehedgeditemarerecognizedinearnings.If

aderivativedesignatedasacashflowhedgeisterminatedorceasestobehighlyeffective,thegainorlossinother

comprehensiveincome(loss)isamortizedtoearningsovertheperiodtheforecastedhedgedtransactionsimpactearnings.Ifa

hedgedforecastedtransactionisnolongerprobableofoccurringduringtheforecastperiodorwithinashortperiodthereafter,

hedgeaccountingisceasedandanygainorlossincludedinothercomprehensiveincome(loss)isreportedinearnings

immediately.DuringtheyearsendedDecember31,2011and2010,BB&Tamortizedapproximately($32)millionand$24

millionofunrecognizedpre-taxgains(losses)fromaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome(loss)intonetinterestincome.
AtDecember31,2011,BB&Thad$254millionofunrecognizedpre-taxlossesonderivativesclassifiedascashflow
hedgesrecordedinothercomprehensiveincome(loss),comparedto$75millionofunrecognizedpre-taxlossesat

December31,2010.Theestimatedamounttobereclassifiedfromothercomprehensiveincome(loss)intoearningsduring

thenext12monthsisalosstotalingapproximately$39million.Thisincludesactivehedgesandgainsandlossesrelated

tohedgesthatwereterminatedearlyforwhichtheforecastedtransactionsarestillprobable.Theproceedsfromthese

terminationswereincludedincashflowsfromfinancingactivities.
AllcashflowhedgeswerehighlyeffectiveforthetwelvemonthsendedDecember31,2011,andthechangeinfairvalue
attributedtohedgeineffectivenesswasnotmaterial.
FairValueHedges
BB&T’sfixedratelong-termdebt,certificatesofdeposit,FHLBadvances,loanandstateandpoliticalsubdivision
securityassetsresultinexposuretolossesinvalueasinterestrateschange.Theriskmanagementobjectiveforhedging

fixedrateassetsandliabilitiesistoconvertthefixedratepaidorreceivedtoafloatingrate.BB&Taccomplishesitsrisk

managementobjectivebyhedgingexposuretochangesinfairvalueoffixedratefinancialinstrumentsprimarilythrough

theuseofswaps.Foraqualifyingfairvaluehedge,changesinthevalueofthederivativesthathavebeenhighlyeffective

ashedgesarerecognizedincurrentperiodearningsalongwiththecorrespondingchangesinthefairvalueofthe

designatedhedgeditemattributabletotheriskbeinghedged.
DuringyearsendedDecember31,2011and2010,BB&Tterminatedcertainfairvaluehedgesprimarilyrelatedtoitslong-
termdebtandreceivedproceedsof$185millionand$314million,respectively.Whenhedgeddebt/otherfinancial

instrumentsareretiredorredeemed,theamountsassociatedwiththehedgeareincludedasacomponentofthegainorloss

ontermination.Whenahedgeisterminatedbutthehedgeditemremainsoutstanding,theproceedsfromtheterminationof

thesehedgeshavebeenreflectedaspartofthecarryingvalueoftheunderlyingdebt/otherfinancialinstrumentandarebeing

amortizedtoearningsoveritsestimatedremaininglife.Theproceedsfromtheseterminationswereincludedincashflows

fromfinancingactivities.DuringtheyearsendedDecember31,2011and2010,BB&Trecognizedpre-taxbenefitsof$205

millionand$71millionrespectivelythroughreductionsofinterestexpensefrompreviouslyunwoundfairvaluehedges.
DerivativesNotDesignatedAsHedges
Derivativesnotdesignatedasahedgeincludethosethatareenteredintoaseitherbalancesheetriskmanagement
instrumentsortofacilitateclientneeds.Balancesheetriskmanagementhedgesarethosehedgesthatdonotqualifytobe

treatedasacashflowhedge,afairvaluehedgeoraforeigncurrencyhedgeforaccountingpurposes,butarenecessaryto

economicallymanagetheriskassociatedwithanassetorliability.
ThiscategoryofhedgesincludesderivativesthathedgemortgagebankingoperationsandMSRs.Formortgageloans
originatedforsale,BB&Tisexposedtochangesinmarketratesandconditionssubsequenttotheinterestratelockand

fundingdate.BB&T’sriskmanagementstrategyrelatedtoitsinterestratelockcommitmentderivativesandloansheldfor

saleincludesusingmortgage-basedderivativessuchasforwardcommitmentsandoptionsinordertomitigatemarketrisk.

ForMSRs,BB&Tusesvariousderivativeinstrumentstomitigatetheincomestatementeffectofchangesinthefairvalue

ofitsMSRs.FortheyearendedDecember31,2011,BB&Trecordedagaintotaling$394millionrelatedtothese

derivativeswhichwasoffsetbyadecreaseinthecarryingvalueofmortgageservicingassetstotaling$341million.For

theyearendedDecember31,2010,BB&Trecognizeda$196milliongainonthesederivatives,whichwasoffsetbya

negative$138millionvaluationadjustmentrelatedtothemortgageservicingasset.
BB&Talsoheld,asriskmanagementinstruments,otherderivativesnotdesignatedashedgesprimarilytofacilitate
transactionsonbehalfofitsclients,aswellasactivitiesrelatedtobalancesheetmanagement.
147NetInvestmentHedges
Inconnectionwithalong-terminvestmentinaforeignsubsidiary,BB&Tisexposedtochangesinthecarryingvalueof
itsinvestmentasaresultofchangesintherelatedforeignexchangerate.AtDecember31,2011and2010,BB&Tused

derivativestohedgethevariabilityinthevalueofits$73millioninvestment.Fornetinvestmenthedges,changesinvalue

ofqualifyinghedgesaredeferredinothercomprehensiveincome(loss)whenthetermsofthederivativematchthe

notionalandcurrencyriskbeinghedged.AtDecember31,2011and2010,accumulatedothercomprehensiveincome

(loss)reflectedunrecognizedafter-taxlossestotaling$11million,relatedtocumulativechangesinthefairvalueof

BB&T’snetinvestmenthedge.
DerivativesCreditRisk
Creditriskrelatedtoderivativesariseswhenamountsreceivablefromacounterpartyexceedthosepayabletothesame
counterparty.BB&Taddressestheriskoflossbysubjectingcounterpartiestocreditreviewsandapprovalssimilarto

thoseusedinmakingloansorotherextensionsofcreditandbyrequiringcollateral.Dealercounterpartiesoperateunder

agreementstoprovidecashand/orliquidcollateralwhenunsecuredlosspositionsexceedcertainnegotiatedlimits.
AsofDecember31,2011,BB&Thadreceivedcashcollateraltotaling$82millionrelatedtoderivativesinagainposition
totaling$80millionandhadpostedcollateraltotaling$790millionincludinginitialmarginrequiredbyexchangesrelated

toderivativesinalosspositiontotaling$730million.AsofDecember31,2010,BB&Thadreceivedcashcollateral

totaling$33milliontocoverderivativesinagainpositionofsimilarvalueandhadpostedcollateraltotaling$605million

relatedtoderivativesinalosspositiontotaling$612million.IntheeventthatBB&T’screditratingshadbeen

downgradedbelowinvestmentgrade,theamountofcollateralpostedwouldhaveincreasedby$30millionand$10

millionasofDecember31,2011and2010,respectively.
Aftercollateralpostingsareconsidered,BB&Thad$6millionofunsecuredpositionsinagainwithderivativedealersat
December31,2011andhadcollateralsufficienttosecurederivativesinagainatDecember31,2010.Allofthederivative

contractstowhichBB&Tisapartysettlemonthly,quarterlyorsemiannually.Inthecaseofcontractswithderivative

dealers,BB&Tonlytransactswithdealersthatarenationalmarketmakerswithstrongcreditratings.Further,BB&Thas

nettingagreementswiththedealerswithwhichitdoesbusiness.Becauseofthesefactors,BB&T’screditriskexposure

relatedtoderivativedealersatDecember31,2011and2010wasnotmaterial.
NOTE20.ComputationofEarningsPerShare
BB&T’sbasicanddilutedearningspersharecalculationsarepresentedinthefollowingtable:
YearsEndedDecember31,
201120102009(Dollarsinmillions,exceptpersharedata,
sharesinthousands)
BasicEarningsPerShare:
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders$1,289$816$729
Weightedaveragenumberofcommonshares696,532692,489629,583
Basicearningspershare$1.85$1.18$1.16
DilutedEarningsPerShare:
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders$1,289$816$729
Weightedaveragenumberofcommonshares696,532692,489629,583

Add:Effectofdilutiveoutstandingequity-basedawards8,6368,5506,036
Weightedaveragenumberofdilutedcommonshares705,168701,039635,619
Dilutedearningspershare$1.83$1.16$1.15
148FortheyearsendedDecember31,2011,2010and2009,respectively,thenumberofantidilutiveoptionswas40.9million,
36.8millionand38.6million.
NOTE21.OperatingSegments
BB&T’soperationsaredividedintosixreportablebusinesssegments:CommunityBanking,ResidentialMortgage
Banking,DealerFinancialServices,SpecializedLending,InsuranceServices,andFinancialServices.Theseoperating

segmentshavebeenidentifiedbasedonBB&T’sorganizationalstructure.Thesegmentsrequireuniquetechnologyand

marketingstrategiesandofferdifferentproductsandservicesthroughanumberofdistinctbrandedlinesofbusiness

(“LOBs”).WhileBB&Tismanagedasanintegratedorganization,individualexecutivemanagersareheldaccountablefor

theoperationsofthesebusinesssegments.
BB&Tmeasuresandpresentsinformationforinternalreportingpurposesinavarietyofdifferentways.Theinternal
reportingsystempresentlyusedbymanagementintheplanningandmeasuringofoperatingactivities,aswellasthe

systemtowhichmostmanagersareheldaccountable,isbasedonorganizationalstructure.Duringthefourthquarterof

2011,BB&Tmadealimitednumberofchangestothesegmentdefinitionstoalignthebusinessunitswiththe

organizationalmanagerhierarchy.Thesechangeshavebeenmaderetrospectivetoallperiodspresented,andarediscussed

below.Additionally,theTreasurysegmentpreviouslyreportedasoneofthereportablebusinesssegmentshasbeen

collapsedwithintheOther,Treasury&CorporatesegmentduetoTreasurynotbeingmanagedasabusinesssegmentbut

asaservicesupportunitwithintheumbrellaofgeneralcorporateservices.
BB&Temphasizesrevenuegrowthbyfocusingonclientservice,saleseffectivenessandrelationshipmanagementalong
withanorganizationalfocusonreferringclientsbetweenbusinessunits.ThebusinessobjectiveistoprovideBB&T’s

entiresuiteofproductstoourclientswiththeendgoalofprovidingourclientsthebestfinancialexperienceinthe

marketplace.Thesegmentresultscontainedhereinarepresentedbasedoninternalmanagementaccountingpoliciesthat

weredesignedtosupportthesestrategicobjectives.Unlikefinancialaccounting,thereisnocomprehensiveauthoritative

bodyofguidanceformanagementaccountingequivalenttoGAAP.Theperformanceofthesegmentsisnotcomparable

withBB&T’sconsolidatedresultsorwithsimilarinformationpresentedbyanyotherfinancialinstitution.Additionally,

becauseoftheinterrelationshipsofthevarioussegments,theinformationpresentedisnotindicativeofhowthesegments

wouldperformiftheyoperatedasindependententities.
Themanagementaccountingprocessusesvariousestimatesandallocationmethodologiestomeasuretheperformanceof
theoperatingsegments.Todeterminefinancialperformanceforeachsegment,BB&Tallocatescapital,fundingcharges

andcredits,anallocatedprovisionforloanandleaselosses,certainnoninterestexpensesandincometaxprovisionsto

eachsegment,asapplicable.Topromoterevenuegrowth,certainrevenuesofResidentialMortgageBanking,Specialized

Lending,InsuranceServices,FinancialServicesandothersegmentsarereflectedinnoninterestincomeintheindividual

segmentresultsandalsoallocatedtoCommunityBankingandFinancialServices.Theseallocatedrevenuesarereflected

inintersegmentnetreferralfeesandeliminatedinOther,Treasury&Corporate.Additionallycertainclientgroupsofthe

CommunityBankhavealsobeenidentifiedasclientsofotherLOBswithinthebusinesssegments.Theseclientgroups

includethecommercialclientsbeingservicedwithintheCommercialFinanceLOBthatispartoftheSpecializedLending

segmentandtheidentifiedwealthandprivatebankingclientsoftheWealthDivisionwithintheFinancialServices

segment.Thenetinterestincomeandassociatednetfundstransferpricingassociatedwiththesecustomers’loansand

depositsisaccountedforintheCommunityBankintherespectivelinecategoriesofnetinterestincome(expense)andnet

intersegmentinterestincome(expense).FortheCommercialFinanceLOBandtheWealthDivision,theirnetinterest

marginandnetintersegmentinterestincomehasbeencombinedinthenetintersegmentinterestincome(expense)line

withanappropriateoffsettingamounttotheOther,Treasury,andCorporatelineitemtoensureconsolidatedtotalsreflect

thecorporation’stotalnetinterestmarginforloansanddeposits.Allocationmethodologiesaresubjecttoperiodic

adjustmentastheinternalmanagementaccountingsystemisrevisedandbusinessorproductlineswithinthesegments

change.Also,becausethedevelopmentandapplicationofthesemethodologiesisadynamicprocess,thefinancialresults

presentedmaybeperiodicallyrevised.Duringthefourthquarterof2011,managementchangedthemethodologyrelated

totheCorporation’sgoodwillandidentifiableintangiblesalongwiththeassociatedidentifiableintangibleamortization

expense.Theassetbalancesandrespectiveexpensehavebeenallocatedtothecorrespondingbusinesssegments.For

segmentreportingpurposes,theseamountswerepreviouslyreportedwithintheOther,Treasury&Corporatesegment.
BB&Tutilizesafundstransferpricing(“FTP”)systemtoeliminatetheeffectofinterestrateriskfromthesegments’net
interestincomebecausesuchriskiscentrallymanagedwithintheTreasuryfunction.TheFTPsystemcreditsorcharges

thesegmentswiththeeconomicvalueorcostofthefundsthesegmentscreateoruse.TheFTPsystemprovidesafunds
149creditforsourcesoffundsandafundschargefortheuseoffundsbyeachsegment.ThenetFTPcreditorcharge,which
includesintercompanyinterestincomeandexpense,isreflectedasnetintersegmentincome(expense)inthe

accompanyingtables.
Theallocatedprovisionforloanandleaselossesisalsoallocatedtotherelevantsegmentsbasedonmanagement’s
assessmentofthesegments’creditrisks.Duringthefirstquarterof2011,managementrefinedtheprocessrelatedto

assigningtheallocatedprovisionbetweentheCompany’soperatingsegments.Unliketheprovisionforloanandlease

lossesrecordedpursuanttoGAAP,theallocatedprovisionisdesignedtoachieveahigherdegreeofcorrelationbetween

theloanlossexperienceandtheGAAPbasisprovisionatthesegmentlevel,whileatthesametimeproviding

managementwithameasureofoperatingperformancethatgivesappropriateconsiderationtotherisksinherentineachof

theCompany’soperatingsegments.AnyoverorunderallocatedprovisionforloanandleaselossesisreflectedinOther,

Treasury&Corporatetoarriveatconsolidatedresults.
BB&Tallocatesexpensestothereportablesegmentsbasedonvariousmethodologies,includingvolumeandamountof
loansanddepositsandthenumberoffull-timeequivalentemployees.Aportionofcorporateoverheadexpenseisnot

allocated,butisretainedincorporateaccountsandreflectedasOther,Treasury&Corporateintheaccompanyingtables.

Themajorityofdepreciationexpenseisrecordedinsupportunitsandallocatedtothesegmentsaspartofallocated

corporateexpense.Incometaxesareallocatedtothevarioussegmentsbasedontaxableincomeandstatutoryrates

applicabletothesegment.
CommunityBanking
CommunityBankingservesindividualandbusinessclientsbyofferingavarietyofloananddepositproductsandother
financialservices.CommunityBankingisprimarilyresponsibleforservingclientrelationships,and,therefore,iscredited

withcertainrevenuefromtheResidentialMortgageBanking,FinancialServices,InsuranceServices,Specialized

Lending,andothersegments,whichisreflectedinnetreferralfees.Theexpensesrelatedtorealestateassetsincluding

depreciationandamortizationweremovedtoanallocatedexpensecategorycontainedinnoninterestexpenses.
ResidentialMortgageBanking
ResidentialMortgageBankingretainsandservicesmortgageloansoriginatedbyCommunityBankingaswellasthose
purchasedfromvariouscorrespondentoriginators.Mortgageloanproductsincludefixedandadjustablerategovernment

andconventionalloansforthepurposeofconstructing,purchasingorrefinancingresidentialproperties.Substantiallyall

ofthepropertiesareowneroccupied.BB&Tgenerallyretainstheservicingrightstoallloanssold.ResidentialMortgage

Bankingearnsinterestonloansheldinthewarehouseandportfolio,feeincomefromtheoriginationandservicingof

mortgageloansandrecognizesgainsorlossesfromthesaleofmortgageloans.
DealerFinancialServices
DealerFinancialServices,aportionofwhichwaspreviouslytheSalesFinancesegment,originatesloanstoconsumerson
aprimeandnonprimebasisforthepurchaseofautomobiles.Suchloansareoriginatedonanindirectbasisthrough

approvedfranchisedandindependentautomobiledealersthroughouttheBB&Tmarketareaandnationallythrough

RegionalAcceptanceCorporation.RegionalAcceptanceCorporationhaspreviouslybeenreportedasaLOBwithin

SpecializedLendingandthischangereflectsorganizationalchangeswithintheindirectautolendingsaleschannelandthe

renamingoftheserelatedservicesunderDealerFinancialServices.Thissegmentalsooriginatesloansforthepurchaseof

boatsandrecreationalvehiclesoriginatedthroughdealersinBB&T’smarketarea.Inaddition,financingandservicingto

dealersfortheirinventoriesisprovidedthroughajointrelationshipbetweenDealerFinancialServicesandCommunity

Banking.SpecializedLending
BB&T’sSpecializedLendingconsistsofeightbusinessunitsthatprovidespecialtyfinanceproductstoconsumersand
businesses.Thesebusinessunitsareacombinationofinternalbusinessunitsandoperatingsubsidiariesofeitherthe

CorporationortheBank.TheinternalbusinessunitsincludeCommercialFinancethatcontainscommercialfinanceand
150mortgagewarehouselending;and,GovernmentalFinancethatisresponsiblefortax-exemptgovernmentfinance.
OperatingsubsidiariesincludeBB&TEquipmentFinancewhichprovidesequipmentleasinglargelywithinBB&T’s

bankingfootprint;SheffieldFinancial,adivisionofFSBFinancial,adealer-basedfinancerofequipmentforbothsmall

businessesandconsumers;LendmarkFinancialServices,adirectconsumerfinancelendingcompany;PrimeRate

PremiumFinanceCorporationwhichincludesAFCOandCAFO,insurancepremiumfinancebusinessunitsthatprovide

fundingtobusinessesintheUnitedStatesandCanadaandtoconsumersincertainmarketswithinBB&T’sbanking

footprint;andGrandbridgeRealEstateCapital,afull-servicecommercialmortgagebankinglenderprovidingloansona

nationalbasis.Thecommercialfinance,mortgagewarehouselendingandtax-exemptgovernmentfinanceLOBswere

previouslyreportedwithintheOthersegmentandtheirmovereflectstheirgrowthasindividualLOBsoverrecenttime

periodsandtheirorganizationalreportingstructure.BankclientsaswellasnonbankclientswithinandoutsideBB&T’s

primarygeographicmarketareaareservedbytheseeightLOBs.TheCommunityBankingsegmentreceivescreditfor

referralstothesebusinessunitswiththecorrespondingchargeretainedaspartofOther,Treasury&Corporateinthe

accompanyingtables.
InsuranceServices
BB&T’sinsuranceagency/brokeragenetworkisthe7thlargestintheworld.BB&TInsuranceServicesprovides
propertyandcasualty,lifeandhealthinsurancetobusinessesandindividuals.Italsoprovidessmallbusinessand

corporateproducts,suchasworkerscompensationandprofessionalliability,aswellassuretycoverageandtitle

insurance.Inaddition,InsuranceServicesalsounderwritesalimitedamountofpropertyandcasualtycoverage.

CommunityBankingandFinancialServicesreceivecreditforinsurancecommissionsonreferredaccounts,withthe

correspondingchargeretainedinthecorporateoffice,whichisreflectedaspartofOther,Treasury&Corporateinthe

accompanyingtables.
FinancialServices
FinancialServicesprovidespersonaltrustadministration,estateplanning,investmentcounseling,wealthmanagement,
assetmanagement,employeebenefitsservices,corporatebankingandcorporatetrustservicestoindividuals,corporations,

institutions,foundationsandgovernmententities.FinancialServicesalsooffersclientsinvestmentalternatives,including

discountbrokerageservices,equities,fixed-rateandvariable-rateannuities,mutualfundsandgovernmentaland

municipalbondsthroughBB&TInvestmentServices,Inc.,asubsidiaryofBranchBank.FinancialServicesincludes

Scott&Stringfellow,LLC,afull-servicebrokerageandinvestmentbankingfirmheadquarteredinRichmond,Virginia.

Scott&Stringfellowprovidesservicesinretailbrokerage,equityanddebtunderwriting,investmentadvice,corporate

financeandequityresearchandfacilitatestheorigination,tradinganddistributionoffixed-incomesecuritiesandequity

productsinboththepublicandprivatecapitalmarkets.Scott&Stringfellowalsohasapublicfinancedepartmentthat

providesinvestmentbankingservices,financialadvisoryservicesandmunicipalbondfinancingtoavarietyofregional

taxableandtax-exemptissuers.Scott&Stringfellow’sinvestmentbankingandcorporateandpublicfinanceareasconduct

businessasBB&TCapitalMarkets.ThissegmentincludesBB&TCapitalPartnersthatisagroupofBB&T-sponsored

privateequityandmezzanineinvestmentfundsthatinvestsinprivatelyownedmiddle-marketoperatingcompaniesto

facilitategrowthorownershiptransitionwhileleveragingtheCommunityBankingnetworkforreferralsandotherbank

services.FinancialServicesalsoincludestheCorporateBankingDivisionthatoriginatesandserviceslargecorporate

relationships,syndicatedlendingrelationshipsandclientderivatives.CommunityBankingreceivesaninterofficecredit

forreferralfees,withthecorrespondingchargereflectedaspartofOther,Treasury&Corporateintheaccompanying

tables.AlsocapturedwithinthenetintersegmentinterestincomeforFinancialServicesisthenetinterestmarginforthe

loansanddepositsassignedtotheWealthManagementDivisionthatarehousedintheCommunityBank.
Other,Treasury&Corporate
Other,Treasury&CorporateisthecombinationoftheOthersegmentthatrepresentsoperatingentitiesthatdonotmeet
thequantitativeorqualitativethresholdsfordisclosure;BB&T’sTreasuryfunctionthatisresponsibleforthemanagement

ofthesecuritiesportfolios,overallbalancesheetfundingandliquidity,andoverallmanagementofinterestraterisk;and,

thecorporatesupportfunctionsthathavenotbeenallocatedtothebusinesssegments,merger-relatedchargesorcredits

thatareincurredaspartofacquisitionandconversionofacquiredentities,nonrecurringchargesthatareconsideredtobe

unusualinnatureorinfrequentandnotreflectiveofthenormaloperationsofthesegments,andintercompanyeliminations

includingintersegmentnetreferralfeesandnetintersegmentinterestincome(expense).
151ThesubstantialmajorityoftheloanportfolioacquiredintheColonialacquisitioniscoveredbylosssharingagreements
withtheFDIC,andismanagedoutsideoftheCommunityBankingsegment.Theassetsandrelatedinterestincomefrom

thisloanportfoliohaveanexpectedfinitebusinesslifeandarethereforeincludedintheOther,Treasury&Corporate

segment.ThefollowingtabledisclosesselectedfinancialinformationwithrespecttoBB&T’sreportablebusinesssegmentsforthe
yearsindicated:
152BB&TCorporation
ReportableSegments
YearsEndedDecember31,2011,2010and2009
CommunityBanking
ResidentialMortgageBanking
DealerFinancialServices
SpecializedLending
201120102009201120102009201120102009201120102009(Dollarsinmillions)
Netinterestincome(expense)$1,933$1,771$1,654$1,024$981$1,065$852$858$829$635$591$527

Netintersegmentinterestincome(expense)1,6372,0331,916(737)(721)(722)(277)(344)(376)(184)(184)(224)
Netinterestincome(expense)andintersegment3,5703,8043,570287260343575514453451407303
Allocatedprovisionforloanandleaselosses6081,8011,8553265533331259327468110158
Noninterestincome1,0191,2001,22634845760
7843210176147
Intersegmentnetreferralfees(expense)134146186——
———————
Noninterestexpense2,3702,4011,918306264257105105107265245225

Amortizationofintangibles476652———11
1566Allocatedcorporateexpenses866771678302324252223263534
Income(loss)beforeincometaxes832111479(27)(123)3363272975129718727

Provision(benefit)forincometaxes29935181(10)(46)128123112205919(36)
Segmentnetincome(loss)$533$76$298$(17)$(77)$208$204$185$31$238$168$63
Identifiablesegmentassets(periodend)$60,948$63,244$66,303$25,471$22,183$19,067$9,874$9,418$8,638$16,756$14,945$12,455
InsuranceServices
FinancialServices
Other,TreasuryandCorporate(1)
TotalBB&TCorporation
201120102009201120102009201120102009201120102009(Dollarsinmillions)
Netinterestincome(expense)$2$3$5$111$99$54$950$1,017$710$5,507$5,320$4,844

Netintersegmentinterestincome(expense)66—259215235(704)(1,005)(829)———
Netinterestincome(expense)andintersegment89537031428924612(119)5,5075,3204,844
Allocatedprovisionforloanandleaselosses———3453360361581,1902,6382,811
Noninterestincome1,0401,0331,032692657694(204)4302253,1133,9573,934

Intersegmentnetreferralfees(expense)
———191637
(153)(162)(223)———
Noninterestexpense7967857655835345431,2781,2141,0025,7035,5484,817

Amortizationofintangibles42454933
411299122114
Allocatedcorporateexpenses615751313232(1,039)(940)(842)———
Income(loss)beforeincometaxes149155172461373408(411)(31)(437)1,6289691,036

Provision(benefit)forincometaxes455262170139155(390)(196)(351)296115159
Segmentnetincome(loss)$104$103$110$291$234$253$(21)$165$(86)$1,332$854$877
Identifiablesegmentassets(periodend)$2,352$2,294$2,312$7,546$6,053$5,153$51,632$38,944$51,836$174,579$157,081$165,764
(1)Includesfinancialdatafromsubsidiariesbelowthequantitativeandqualitativethresholdsrequiringdisclosure.
153SIGNATURESPursuanttotherequirementsofSection13or15(d)oftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,theRegistranthasduly
causedthisreporttobesignedonitsbehalfbytheundersigned,thereuntodulyauthorized,asofFebruary27,2012:
BB&TCorporation
(Registrant)/s/KellyS.King
KellyS.King
ChairmanandChiefExecutiveOfficer
PursuanttotherequirementsoftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,thisreporthasbeensignedbelowbythefollowing
personsonbehalfoftheRegistrantandinthecapacitiesindicatedasofFebruary27,2012:
/s/KellyS.King
KellyS.King
ChairmanandChiefExecutiveOfficer
(PrincipalExecutiveOfficer)
/s/DarylN.Bible
DarylN.Bible
SeniorExecutiveVicePresidentand
ChiefFinancialOfficer
(PrincipalFinancialOfficer)
/s/CynthiaB.Powell
CynthiaB.Powell
ExecutiveVicePresidentand
CorporateController
(PrincipalAccountingOfficer)
AMajorityoftheDirectorsoftheRegistrantareincluded:
/s/KellyS.King
KellyS.King
ChairmanandChiefExecutiveOfficer
/s/JohnA.AllisonIV
JohnA.AllisonIV
DirectorJenniferS.Banner
Director/s/K.DavidBoyer,Jr.
K.DavidBoyerJr.
Director/s/AnnaR.Cablik
AnnaR.Cablik
Director/s/RonaldE.Deal
RonaldE.Deal
Director/s/J.LittletonGlover,Jr.
J.LittletonGloverJr.
Director154/s/JaneP.Helm
JaneP.Helm
Director/s/JohnP.HoweIII,M.D.
JohnP.HoweIII,M.D.
Director/s/ValeriaLynchLee
ValeriaLynchLee
Director/s/NidoR.Qubein
NidoR.Qubein
Director/s/ThomasE.Skains
ThomasE.Skains
Director/s/ThomasN.Thompson
ThomasN.Thompson
Director/s/EdwinH.Welch,Ph.D.
EdwinH.Welch,Ph.D.
Director/s/StephenT.Williams
StephenT.Williams
Director155[THISPAGEINTENTIONALLYLEFTBLANK]
EXHIBITINDEX
ExhibitNo.
DescriptionLocation2.1PurchaseandAssumptionAgreementWholeBankAll
Deposits,amongtheFederalDepositInsurance

Corporation,receiverofColonialBank,Montgomery,

Alabama,theFederalDepositInsuranceCorporationand

BranchBankingandTrustCompany,datedasof

August14,2009.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit2.1oftheCurrentReporton

Form8-K,filedAugust17,2009.
3(i)ArticlesofIncorporationoftheRegistrant,asRestated
February25,2009andamendedMay10,2010.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit3(i)oftheQuarterlyReport

onForm10-Q,filedAugust9,2010.
3(ii)BylawsoftheRegistrant,asamendedFebruary21,2012.Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit3.1oftheCurrentReporton

Form8-K,filedFebruary24,2012.
4.1ArticlesofIncorporationoftheRegistrant,asRestated
February25,2009andamendedMay10,2010,relatedto

JuniorParticipatingPreferredStock.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit3(i)oftheQuarterlyReport

onForm10-Q,filedAugust9,2010.
4.2ArticlesofIncorporationoftheRegistrant,asRestated
February25,2009andamendedMay10,2010,relatedto

SeriesCPreferredStock.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit3(i)oftheQuarterlyReport

onForm10-Q,filedAugust9,2010.
4.3IndentureRegardingSeniorSecurities(includingformof
SeniorDebtSecurity)betweenRegistrantandU.S.Bank

NationalAssociation(assuccessorininteresttoState

StreetBankandTrustCompany),astrustee,datedasof

May24,1996.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit4(c)ofFormS-3Registration

StatementNo.333-02899.
4.4FirstSupplementalIndenture,datedMay4,2009,tothe
IndentureRegardingSeniorSecurities,datedasof

May24,1996,betweentheRegistrantandU.S.Bank

NationalAssociation.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit4.2oftheCurrentReporton

Form8-K,filedMay4,2009.
4.5IndentureRegardingSubordinatedSecurities(including
FormofSubordinatedDebtSecurity)betweenthe

RegistrantandU.S.BankNationalAssociation(as

successorininteresttoStateStreetBankandTrust

Company),astrustee,datedasofMay24,1996.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit4(d)ofFormS-3Registration

StatementNo.333-02899.
4.6FirstSupplementalIndenture,datedasofDecember23,
2003,totheIndentureRegardingSubordinated

Securities,datedasofMay24,1996,betweenthe

RegistrantandU.S.BankNationalAssociation.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit4.5oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary27,2009.
4.7SecondSupplementalIndenture,datedasof
September24,2004,totheIndentureRegarding

SubordinatedSecurities,datedasofMay24,1996,

betweentheRegistrantandU.S.BankNational

Association.Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit4.7oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary26,2010.
4.8ThirdSupplementalIndenture,datedMay4,2009,tothe
IndentureRegardingSubordinatedSecurities,datedasof

May24,1996,betweentheRegistrantandU.S.Bank

NationalAssociation.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit4.6oftheCurrentReporton

Form8-K,filedMay4,2009.
10.1*BB&TCorporationAmendedandRestated
Non-EmployeeDirectors’DeferredCompensationand

StockOptionPlan(amendedandrestatedJanuary1,

2005).Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.1oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary28,2008.
ExhibitNo.
DescriptionLocation10.2*†FormofNon-EmployeeDirectorNonqualifiedStock
OptionAgreementfortheBB&TCorporationAmended

andRestatedNon-EmployeeDirectors’Deferred

CompensationandStockOptionPlan.
Filedherewith.
10.3*BB&TCorporation1995OmnibusStockIncentivePlan
(asamendedandrestatedthroughFebruary25,2003).
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit99ofFormS-8Registration

StatementNo.333-116502.
10.4*2008DeclarationofAmendmenttoBB&TCorporation
1995OmnibusStockIncentivePlan.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.2.aoftheAnnualReport

onForm10-K,filedFebruary27,

2009.10.5*409ADeclarationofAmendmenttoBB&TCorporation
1995OmnibusStockIncentivePlan.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.2.boftheAnnualReport

onForm10-K,filedFebruary27,

2009.10.6*FormofEmployeeNonqualifiedStockOption
AgreementfortheBB&TCorporation1995Omnibus

StockIncentivePlan,asamendedandrestated.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.5oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary25,2011.
10.7*BB&TCorporationAmendedandRestated2004Stock
IncentivePlan,asamended(asamendedthrough

February24,2009).
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
theAppendixtotheProxyStatement

forthe2009AnnualMeetingof

ShareholdersonSchedule14A,filed

March13,2009.
10.8*FormofRestrictedStockUnitAgreement
(Performance-BasedVestingComponent)forExecutive

OfficersundertheBB&TCorporationAmendedand

Restated2004StockIncentivePlan(June2010

PerformanceAward).
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.1oftheCurrentReporton

Form8-K,filedJune25,2010.
10.9*FormofPerformanceUnitAwardAgreementforthe
BB&TCorporationAmendedandRestated2004Stock

IncentivePlan(3-YearVesting).
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.6oftheQuarterlyReport

onForm10-Q,filedMay7,2010.
10.10*FormofNon-EmployeeDirectorRestrictedStockUnit
AgreementfortheBB&TCorporationAmendedand

Restated2004StockIncentivePlan(5-YearVesting).
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.6oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary28,2008.
10.11*FormofNon-EmployeeDirectorRestrictedStockUnit
AgreementfortheBB&TCorporationAmendedand

Restated2004StockIncentivePlan(4-YearVesting).
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.2oftheQuarterlyReport

onForm10-Q,filedMay7,2010.
10.12*FormofNon-EmployeeDirectorNonqualifiedStock
OptionAgreementfortheBB&TCorporationAmended

andRestated2004StockIncentivePlan(5-Year

Vesting).Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.7oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary28,2008.
10.13*FormofNon-EmployeeDirectorNonqualifiedStock
OptionAgreementfortheBB&TCorporationAmended

andRestated2004StockIncentivePlan(4-Year

Vesting).Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.3oftheQuarterlyReport

onForm10-Q,filedMay7,2010.
10.14*FormofEmployeeNonqualifiedStockOption
AgreementfortheBB&TCorporationAmendedand

Restated2004StockIncentivePlan(5-YearVesting).
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.8oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary28,2008.
10.15*FormofEmployeeNonqualifiedStockOption
AgreementfortheBB&TCorporationAmendedand

Restated2004StockIncentivePlan(4-YearVesting).
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.5oftheQuarterlyReport

onForm10-Q,filedMay7,2010.
ExhibitNo.
DescriptionLocation10.16*FormofRestrictedStockUnitAgreementfortheBB&T
CorporationAmendedandRestated2004StockIncentive

Plan(5-YearVesting).
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.1oftheQuarterlyReport

onForm10-Q,filedMay8,2009.
10.17*FormofRestrictedStockUnitAgreementfortheBB&T
CorporationAmendedandRestated2004StockIncentive

Plan(4-YearVesting).
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.4oftheQuarterlyReport

onForm10-Q,filedMay7,2010.
10.18*Notused.

10.19*BB&TCorporationAmendedandRestatedShort-term
IncentivePlan.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.11oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary27,2009.
10.20*FirstAmendmenttoBB&TCorporationShort-term
IncentivePlan(January1,2009Restatement).
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.1oftheQuarterlyReport

onForm10-Q,filedMay7,2010.
10.21*SouthernNationalDeferredCompensationPlanforKey
Executivesincludingamendments.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.21oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary25,2011.
10.22*BB&TCorporationTargetPensionPlan.Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.13oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary27,2009.
10.23*FirstAmendmenttotheBB&TCorporationTarget
PensionPlan.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.23oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary25,2011.
10.24*†SecondAmendmenttotheBB&TCorporationTarget
PensionPlan.
Filedherewith.
10.25*†ThirdAmendmenttotheBB&TCorporationTarget
PensionPlan.
Filedherewith.
10.26*BB&TCorporationNon-QualifiedDefinedBenefitPlan.Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.14oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary27,2009.
10.27*FirstAmendmenttotheBB&TCorporationNon-
QualifiedDefinedBenefitPlan.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.25oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary25,2011.
10.28*†SecondAmendmenttotheBB&TCorporationNon-
QualifiedDefinedBenefitPlan.
Filedherewith.
10.29*†ThirdAmendmenttotheBB&TCorporationNon-
QualifiedDefinedBenefitPlan.
Filedherewith.
10.30*BB&TCorporationNon-QualifiedDefinedContribution
Plan.Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.15oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary27,2009.
10.31*BB&TCorporationNon-QualifiedDeferred
CompensationTrustAmendedandRestatedeffective

November1,2001(includingamendments)
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.16oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary27,2009.
10.32*BB&TCorporationNon-QualifiedDeferred
CompensationTrustAmendedandRestatedeffective

November1,2001(includingamendments)
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.17oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary28,2008.
10.33*2008AmendedandRestatedEmploymentAgreementby
andamongBB&TCorporation,BranchBankingand

TrustCo.andKellyS.King.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.20oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary27,2009.
10.34*2008AmendedandRestatedEmploymentAgreementby
andamongBB&TCorporation,BranchBankingand

TrustCo.andChristopherL.Henson.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.21oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary27,2009.
ExhibitNo.
DescriptionLocation10.35*2008AmendedandRestatedEmploymentAgreementby
andamongBB&TCorporation,BranchBankingand

TrustCo.andDarylN.Bible.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.22oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary27,2009.
10.36*2008AmendedandRestatedEmploymentAgreementby
andamongBB&TCorporation,BranchBankingand

TrustCo.andRickyK.Brown.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.23oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary27,2009.
10.37*2008AmendedandRestatedEmploymentAgreementby
andamongBB&TCorporation,BranchBankingand

TrustCo.andBarbaraF.Duck.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.24oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary27,2009.
10.38*2008AmendedandRestatedEmploymentAgreementby
andamongBB&TCorporation,BranchBankingand

TrustCo.andDonnaC.Goodrich.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.25oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary27,2009.
10.39*2008AmendedandRestatedEmploymentAgreementby
andamongBB&TCorporation,BranchBankingand

TrustCo.andRobertE.Greene.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.26oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary27,2009.
10.40*2008AmendedandRestatedEmploymentAgreementby
andamongBB&TCorporation,BranchBankingand

TrustCo.andClarkeR.Starnes,III.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.27oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary27,2009.
10.41*2008AmendedandRestatedEmploymentAgreementby
andamongBB&TCorporation,BranchBankingand

TrustCo.andStevenB.Wiggs.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.28oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary27,2009.
10.42*2008AmendedandRestatedEmploymentAgreementby
andamongBB&TCorporation,BranchBankingand

TrustCo.andC.LeonWilson,III.
Incorporatedhereinbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.29oftheAnnualReporton

Form10-K,filedFebruary27,2009.
11Statementrecomputationofearningspershare.FiledherewithasNote20tothe
consolidatedfinancialstatements.
12†Statementrecomputationofratios.Filedherewith.

21†SubsidiariesoftheRegistrant.Filedherewith.

22ProxyStatementfortheAnnualMeetingofShareholders.Futurefilingincorporatedhereinby
referencepursuanttoGeneral

InstructionG(3).
23†ConsentofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccounting
Firm.Filedherewith.
31.1CertificationofChiefExecutiveOfficerpursuanttoRule
13a-14(a)or15(d)-14(a)oftheExchangeAct,asadopted

pursuanttoSection302oftheSarbanes-OxleyActof

2002.Filedherewith.
ExhibitNo.
DescriptionLocation31.2CertificationofChiefFinancialOfficerpursuanttoRule
13a-14(a)or15(d)-14(a)oftheExchangeAct,asadopted

pursuanttoSection302oftheSarbanes-OxleyActof

2002.Filedherewith.
32CertificationofChiefExecutiveOfficerandChief
FinancialOfficerpursuantto18U.S.C.Section1350,as

adoptedpursuanttoSection906oftheSarbanes-Oxley

Actof2002.
Filedherewith.
101.CALXBRLTaxonomyExtensionCalculationLinkbase.Filedherewith.
101.DEFXBRLTaxonomyDefinitionLinkbase.Filedherewith.

101.INSXBRLInstanceDocument.Filedherewith.

101.LABXBRLTaxonomyExtensionLabelLinkbase.Filedherewith.

101.PREXBRLTaxonomyExtensionPresentationLinkbase.Filedherewith.

101.SCHXBRLTaxonomyExtensionSchema.Filedherewith.
*Managementcompensatoryplanorarrangement.
†ExhibitfiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissionandavailableuponrequest.
Exhibit31.1
CERTIFICATIONSI,KellyS.King,certifythat:
1.IhavereviewedthisAnnualReportonForm10-KofBB&TCorporation;

2.Basedonmyknowledge,thisreportdoesnotcontainanyuntruestatementofamaterialfactoromittostatea
materialfactnecessarytomakethestatementsmade,inlightofthecircumstancesunderwhichsuchstatementswere

made,notmisleadingwithrespecttotheperiodcoveredbythisreport;
3.Basedonmyknowledge,thefinancialstatements,andotherfinancialinformationincludedinthisreport,fairly
presentinallmaterialrespectsthefinancialcondition,resultsofoperationsandcashflowsoftheregistrantasof,and

for,theperiodspresentedinthisreport;
4.Theregistrant’sothercertifyingofficer(s)andIareresponsibleforestablishingandmaintainingdisclosurecontrols
andprocedures(asdefinedinExchangeActRules13a-15(e)and15d-15(e))andinternalcontroloverfinancial

reporting(asdefinedinExchangeActRules13a-15(f)and15d-15(f))fortheregistrantandhave:
a)Designedsuchdisclosurecontrolsandprocedures,orcausedsuchdisclosurecontrolsandprocedurestobe
designedunderoursupervision,toensurethatmaterialinformationrelatingtotheregistrant,includingits

consolidatedsubsidiaries,ismadeknowntousbyotherswithinthoseentities,particularlyduringtheperiodin

whichthisreportisbeingprepared;
b)Designedsuchinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting,orcausedsuchinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting
tobedesignedunderoursupervision,toprovidereasonableassuranceregardingthereliabilityoffinancial

reportingandthepreparationoffinancialstatementsforexternalpurposesinaccordancewithgenerally

acceptedaccountingprinciples;
c)Evaluatedtheeffectivenessoftheregistrant’sdisclosurecontrolsandproceduresandpresentedinthisreportour
conclusionsabouttheeffectivenessofthedisclosurecontrolsandprocedures,asoftheendoftheperiod

coveredbythisreportbasedonsuchevaluation;and
d)Disclosedinthisreportanychangeintheregistrant’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingthatoccurred
duringtheregistrant’smostrecentfiscalquarter(theregistrant’sfourthfiscalquarterinthecaseofanannual

report)thathasmateriallyaffected,orisreasonablylikelytomateriallyaffect,theregistrant’sinternalcontrol

overfinancialreporting;and
5.Theregistrant’sothercertifyingofficer(s)andIhavedisclosed,basedonourmostrecentevaluationofinternal
controloverfinancialreporting,totheregistrant’sauditorsandtheauditcommitteeoftheregistrant’sboardof

directors(orpersonsperformingtheequivalentfunctions):
a)Allsignificantdeficienciesandmaterialweaknessesinthedesignoroperationofinternalcontroloverfinancial
reportingwhicharereasonablylikelytoadverselyaffecttheregistrant’sabilitytorecord,process,summarize

andreportfinancialinformation;and
b)Anyfraud,whetherornotmaterial,thatinvolvesmanagementorotheremployeeswhohaveasignificantrolein
theregistrant’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.
Date:February27,2012
/s/KellyS.King
KellyS.King
ChairmanandChiefExecutiveOfficer
Exhibit31.2
CERTIFICATIONSI,DarylN.Bible,certifythat:
1.IhavereviewedthisAnnualReportonForm10-KofBB&TCorporation;

2.Basedonmyknowledge,thisreportdoesnotcontainanyuntruestatementofamaterialfactoromittostatea
materialfactnecessarytomakethestatementsmade,inlightofthecircumstancesunderwhichsuchstatementswere

made,notmisleadingwithrespecttotheperiodcoveredbythisreport;
3.Basedonmyknowledge,thefinancialstatements,andotherfinancialinformationincludedinthisreport,fairly
presentinallmaterialrespectsthefinancialcondition,resultsofoperationsandcashflowsoftheregistrantasof,and

for,theperiodspresentedinthisreport;
4.Theregistrant’sothercertifyingofficer(s)andIareresponsibleforestablishingandmaintainingdisclosurecontrols
andprocedures(asdefinedinExchangeActRules13a-15(e)and15d-15(e))andinternalcontroloverfinancial

reporting(asdefinedinExchangeActRules13a-15(f)and15d-15(f))fortheregistrantandhave:
a)Designedsuchdisclosurecontrolsandprocedures,orcausedsuchdisclosurecontrolsandprocedurestobe
designedunderoursupervision,toensurethatmaterialinformationrelatingtotheregistrant,includingits

consolidatedsubsidiaries,ismadeknowntousbyotherswithinthoseentities,particularlyduringtheperiodin

whichthisreportisbeingprepared;
b)Designedsuchinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting,orcausedsuchinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting
tobedesignedunderoursupervision,toprovidereasonableassuranceregardingthereliabilityoffinancial

reportingandthepreparationoffinancialstatementsforexternalpurposesinaccordancewithgenerally

acceptedaccountingprinciples;
c)Evaluatedtheeffectivenessoftheregistrant’sdisclosurecontrolsandproceduresandpresentedinthisreportour
conclusionsabouttheeffectivenessofthedisclosurecontrolsandprocedures,asoftheendoftheperiod

coveredbythisreportbasedonsuchevaluation;and
d)Disclosedinthisreportanychangeintheregistrant’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingthatoccurred
duringtheregistrant’smostrecentfiscalquarter(theregistrant’sfourthfiscalquarterinthecaseofanannual

report)thathasmateriallyaffected,orisreasonablylikelytomateriallyaffect,theregistrant’sinternalcontrol

overfinancialreporting;and
5.Theregistrant’sothercertifyingofficer(s)andIhavedisclosed,basedonourmostrecentevaluationofinternal
controloverfinancialreporting,totheregistrant’sauditorsandtheauditcommitteeoftheregistrant’sboardof

directors(orpersonsperformingtheequivalentfunctions):
a)Allsignificantdeficienciesandmaterialweaknessesinthedesignoroperationofinternalcontroloverfinancial
reportingwhicharereasonablylikelytoadverselyaffecttheregistrant’sabilitytorecord,process,summarize

andreportfinancialinformation;and
b)Anyfraud,whetherornotmaterial,thatinvolvesmanagementorotheremployeeswhohaveasignificantrolein
theregistrant’sinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.
Date:February27,2012
/s/DarylN.Bible
DarylN.Bible
SeniorExecutiveVicePresidentand
ChiefFinancialOfficer
Exhibit32
CERTIFICATIONPURSUANTTO18U.S.C.SECTION1350,
ASADOPTEDPURSUANTTOSECTION906
OFTHESARBANES-OXLEYACTOF2002
Pursuantto18U.S.C.Section1350,asadoptedpursuanttoSection906oftheSarbanes-OxleyActof2002,the
undersigned,ChiefExecutiveOfficerandChiefFinancialOfficerofBB&TCorporation(the“Company”),dohereby

certifythat
(1)TheAnnualReportonForm10-KforthefiscalyearendedDecember31,2011(the“Form10-K”)oftheCompany
fullycomplieswiththerequirementsofSection13(a)or15(d)oftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934;and
(2)TheinformationcontainedintheForm10-Kfairlypresents,inallmaterialrespects,thefinancialconditionand
resultsofoperationsoftheCompany.
Date:February27,2012
/s/KellyS.King
KellyS.King
ChairmanandChiefExecutiveOfficer
/s/DarylN.Bible
DarylN.Bible
SeniorExecutiveVicePresidentand
ChiefFinancialOfficer
AsignedoriginalofthiswrittenstatementrequiredbySection906hasbeenprovidedtoBB&TCorporationandwillbe
retainedbyBB&TCorporationandfurnishedtotheSecuritiesandExchangeCommissionoritsstaffuponrequest.
General Information
General Information
General Information
ABOUT THE REPORT
This 2011 Annual Report contains financial 
information and performance measures deter-
mined by methods other than in accordance 
with accounting principles generally accepted in 
the United States of America (ﬁGAAPﬂ). BB&T™s 
management uses these measures to evaluate 
the underlying performance and efficiency 
of BB&T™s operations. Management believes 
that non-GAAP measures provide a greater 
understanding of ongoing operations and enhance 
comparability of results with prior periods as 
well as demonstrating the effects of signi˜ cant 
gains and charges in the current period. The 
company believes that a meaningful analysis of its 
˜ nancial performance requires an understanding 
of the factors underlying that performance. 
BB&T™s management believes that investors 
may use these non-GAAP financial measures 
to analyze financial performance without the 
impact of unusual items that may obscure trends 
in the company™s underlying performance. These 
disclosures should not be viewed as a substitute 
for ˜ nancial measures determined in accordance 
with GAAP, nor are they necessarily comparable 
to non-GAAP performance measures that may 
be presented by other companies. The Tier 1 
common equity ratio is a non-GAAP measure. 
BB&T uses the Tier 1 common equity de˜ nition 
used in the SCAP assessment to calculate the 
ratio. BB&T™s management uses these measures 
to assess the quality of capital and believes that 
investors may ˜ nd them useful in their analysis of 
the corporation. These capital measures are not 
necessarily comparable to similar capital measures 
that may be presented by other companies. Asset 
quality ratios have been adjusted to remove the 
impact of acquired loans and foreclosed property 
covered by the FDIC loss sharing agreements 
as management believes their inclusion results 
in distortion of those ratios and may not be 
comparable to other periods presented or to other 
portfolios that were not impacted by purchase 
accounting. Refer to www.BBT.com/about to view 
applicable reconciliations of non-GAAP measures.
SEC FILINGS
BB&T Corporation ˜ les required reports with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission each 
year. Copies of these reports may be obtained 
upon written request to:
Daryl N. Bible
Senior Executive Vice President 
and Chief Financial Of˜ cer
BB&T Corporation
200 West Second Street
PO Box 1250
Winston-Salem, NC 27102-1250 
CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS
BB&T Corporation
200 West Second Street
PO Box 1250
Winston-Salem, NC 27102-1250
336-733-2000
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER
BB&T Corporation is an equal opportunity 
employer. All matters regarding recruiting, hiring, 
training, compensation, bene˜ ts, promotions, 
transfers and all other personnel policies will 
continue to be free from discriminatory practices. 
TRANSFER AGENT
Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
250 Royall Street
Canton, MA 02021 
SHAREHOLDER SERVICES
Shareholders seeking information regarding 
transfer instructions, dividends, lost certi˜ cates 
or other general information should write or call:
Computershare Trust Company, N.A.
P.O. Box 43078 
Providence, RI 02940-3078
1-800-213-4314
Address changes, reprinting of tax information, 
and account information may be directly 
accessed through the Computershare website 
using Investor Centre:
www.Computershare.com/BBT
STOCK EXCHANGE AND 
TRADING SYMBOL
The common stock of BB&T Corporation 
is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under 
the symbol BBT.
DIRECT STOCK PURCHASE AND 
DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT PLAN
The Direct Stock Purchase and Dividend 
Reinvestment Plan offer prospective and current 
shareholders the opportunity to affordably 
obtain BB&T common shares. Shareholders 
may reinvest dividends, purchase additional 
shares, and sell shares on a regular basis. For 
more information, contact Computershare at 
1-800-213-4314.
ANALYST INFORMATION
Analysts, investors and others seeking additional 
˜ nancial information should contact:
Tamera L. Gjesdal
Senior Vice President
Investor Relations
336-733-3058
Alan W. Greer
Executive Vice President
Investor Relations
336-733-3021
CLIENTS
Clients seeking assistance with BB&T products 
and services should call 1-800-BANK BBT 
(1-800-226-5228).
NEWS MEDIA
News media representatives seeking informa-
tion should contact
:
Cynthia A. Williams
Executive Vice President
Chief Corporate Communications Of˜ cer
336-733-1478
WEBSITE
Please visit www.BBT.com for information 
concerning BB&T™s products and services, 
news releases, ˜ nancial information, corporate 
governance practices and other material relating 
to BB&T.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This 2011 Annual Report contains certain forward-
looking statements as defined in the Private 
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These 
statements may address issues that involve 
significant risks, uncertainties, estimates and 
assumptions made by management. Actual results 
may differ materially from current projections. 
Please refer to BB&T™s ˜ lings with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission for a summary of 
important factors that may affect BB&T™s forward-
looking statements. BB&T undertakes no obligation 
to revise these statements following the date 
of this Annual Report.
BB&T Corporation
200 West Second Street
PO Box 1250
Winston-Salem, NC 27102-1250
C0001125036
To Create the Best Financial Institution Possible
To Create the Best Financial Institution Possible
To Create the Best Financial Institution Possible
ﬁThe Best of The Bestﬂ
ﬁThe Best of The Bestﬂ
ﬁThe Best of The Bestﬂ
To Make the World a Better Place to Live, By:
To Make the World a Better Place to Live, By:
To Make the World a Better Place to Live, By:
Helping our Clients Achieve Economic Success and Financial Security;
Creating a Place where our Associates can Learn, Grow and be Ful˜ lled in their Work;
Making the Communities in which we Work Better Places to be; and thereby:
Optimizing the Long-Term Return to our Shareholders, while Providing 
a Safe and Sound Investment.
OUR VISION
OUR MISSION
OUR VALUES
