PRESIDENT™S MESSAGEHarris H. Simmons // 
Chairman, President and CEO
To Our Shareholders:
During 2012, we experienced continued fundamental improvement in Zions Bancorporation’s 
operating and financial results. The effects of the financial crisis of 2008 and its aftermath remain 

very apparent in the economy, in the banking industry, and in our own business. But a period of 

low interest rates and modest economic growth has helped to heal much of the damage from 

the “Great Recession,” and stronger consumer and corporate balance sheets coupled with pent-

up demand has spurred improvements in the housing market and other sectors of the economy. 
While economic growth in many of the markets in which we operate remains sub-par, we never-
theless experienced modest net loan growth during the past year. We also experienced strong 

deposit growth, reflecting the substantial liquidity that exists in the economy, particularly in the 

corporate sector. Virtually every measure of credit quality experienced significant improvement, 

and we continued to focus on reducing risk in our balance sheet and in our operations.
Zions Bancorporation derives the largest portion of its income from credit intermediation: earn-
ing a spread between the cost of our funds and the rates we earn on various earning assets. We 

remain in the most challenging environment in many years for maintaining strong net interest 

margins, with the Federal Reserve System’s monetary policy designed to maintain very low inter-

est rates across the full spectrum of maturities. While this policy has been beneficial in making 

mortgage financing more affordable to buyers of real property, and thus in facilitating the “work-

out” of troubled loans held by banks and other financial institutions and investors, it has also 

squeezed most banks’ interest margins. 
One of our major areas of focus during 2012 was on reducing the cost of our capital structure. 
Accordingly, we were pleased to fully exit the U.S. Government’s “TARP” program during the 

year, repaying the U.S. Department of the Treasury $1.4 billion, in addition to the $253 million 
The commercial banking industry has incurred a great deal of reputational 
damage in recent years – much of it owing to the public’s sense that behemoth 

financial institutions are both out of touch with their local communities and 

the customers they serve, and that such institutions pose out-sized risks to 

taxpayers. Regional banks such as Zions Bancorporation find themselves in a 

relatively comfortable middle ground. And our organizational structure, which 

is based on a very localized approach that leaves integrated management 

teams in close touch with the communities they serve, is a great strength at a 

time when a premium is placed on being close to your customers.
2012
 YEAR IN REVIEW112012
 YEAR IN REVIEWWe continued to experience significant growth in noninterest-bearing deposits, with average bal-
ances in these accounts increasing 15% during the year to $16,668 million, up from $14,531 million 

in 2011. Noninterest-bearing deposit balances were $18,469 million at year-end 2012; these 

deposits funded 37% of our earning assets, ranking us within the top decile of the industry. The 

rapid rise in these balances reflects the enormous amount of liquidity in the economy at large, 

combined with the effects of the FDIC’s Transaction Account Guarantee, or “TAG,” program that 

provided unlimited federal deposit insurance coverage on noninterest-bearing accounts until the 

program concluded at the end of 2012. 
With much higher growth rates in deposits than in loans over the past several years, we have 
elected to remain highly liquid and to maintain a very conservative posture with respect to 

our exposure to the possibility of a rising interest rate environment. The largest portion of our 

 liquidity in recent times has been maintained in overnight deposit accounts with the Federal 
Reserve System or in short-term reverse repurchase agreements. We have avoided investments 

in residential mortgage-backed securities and similar instruments that are particularly suscep-

tible to declining values as interest rates rise. While this strategy has a near-term cost in terms of 

foregone interest income, we believe it will prove to be the safer course as interest rates increase 

as a result of a strengthening economy or higher inflation.
We have a balance sheet that tends to be naturally very “asset sensitive,” which is to say that 
our interest-earning assets are expected to reprice at a faster pace than our interest-bearing 

liabilities. To protect against the ensuing pressure on margins during periods of declining interest 

rates, we have traditionally used “cash flow hedges,” in which we enter into interest rate swaps 

providing us with a fixed rate of interest, and obligating us to in turn pay a variable rate of inter-

est, on an agreed upon notional amount. With short to medium-term interest rates near zero 

(and the notion that “you can’t fall off the floor”), we have not been replacing these hedges as 

they mature, as they provide little if any additional protection at present. As a result, we are well-

positioned for the time when interest rates rise, and would expect revenue to materially increase 

in such an environment.
The Federal Reserve has created enormous amounts of money in recent years in an effort to 
stimulate the economy by offsetting lower levels of money circulation (or “velocity”) with higher 

volumes of money supply, and to engineer a reduction in long-term interest rates by acquiring 

vast amounts of mortgage-backed bonds and other long-term securities. There is little question 

that this has provided adrenaline for the economy, but it also creates a significant risk of infla-

tion when money resumes circulating at a more normal pace. With inflation – or the prospect of 

 inflation – will come higher interest rates as the Federal Reserve attempts to withdraw money 
from the economy by selling securities it has accumulated.
2012
 YEAR IN REVIEW5We have more than two billion dollars of high-cost capital and other financing that we expect to 
reduce or refinance at a lower cost during the next three years including the likely redemption 

of our 9.5% Series C perpetual preferred stock, which had $798 million outstanding at year end, 

and the replacement of this amount with new preferred shares carrying a lower coupon; and the 

redemption of $294 million of trust preferred securities bearing an 8.0% interest rate.
Additionally, we are placing increased emphasis on developing noninterest income, and see 
opportunities to increase our penetration with current and prospective customers in bankcards, 

mortgage banking, treasury management and other fee businesses over the next three years.
We employ an operating model which we believe is well-suited to the current environment. The 
commercial banking industry has incurred a great deal of reputational damage in recent years – 

much of it owing to the public’s sense that behemoth financial institutions are both out of touch 

with their local communities and the customers they serve, and that such institutions pose out-

sized risks to taxpayers. Consequently, a chorus of former regulatory officials and politicians 

from across the political spectrum has increasingly been promoting the notion that the largest 

banks should be broken up. At the other end of the spectrum, many community banks are over-

whelmed by the pace of technological change and the tremendous burden of the flood of new 

regulations that must be complied with.
Regional banks such as Zions Bancorporation find themselves in a relatively comfortable middle 
ground. And our organizational structure, which is based on a very localized approach that 

leaves integrated management teams in close touch with the communities they serve, is a great 

strength at a time when a premium is placed on being close to your customers.
We have a great team of bankers focused on building a strong and enduring business. I can’t 
adequately express my appreciation for the work they do. It is a privilege to work with them. 

I offer my thanks as well to each of you as owners and customers for your patience and persever-

ance through what has been an extraordinary period.
Respectfully,
Harris H. SimmonsChairman, President and CEO
February 23, 2013
Jobs grew in Zions’ footprint by 11.4% during the last 10 years, a 
full 8 percentage points better than U.S. nonfarm payroll growth. 
2012
 YEAR IN REVIEW7The Commerce Bank of Oregon
In 2012, TCBO had 100% employee involvement in bank-sponsored volunteer activities planned 
throughout the year. One such effort involved Impact NW, where bank employees volunteered at the 

annual Kids on the Block event in Portland, leading children’s art activities. Impact NW works with 

schools, businesses, and churches to create a springboard for community members to improve their 

quality of life and achieve independence.
The Commerce Bank of Washington
Over the past year, employees of TCBW supported the mission of Food Lifeline, a nonprofit organiza-

tion dedicated to eliminating hunger in western Washington. TCBW’s efforts culminated in a client 

appreciation event where clients joined the bank in the participation of Food Frenzy, a fundraiser 

competition among local businesses, providing 116,160 meals to hungry children.
National Bank of Arizona
NB|AZ promotes employee engagement and charitable giving in the communities it serves through 

a grassroots volunteer initiative known as NB|AZ in Action. This unique approach gives NB|AZ’s 

employees the freedom to choose how they can best support their local communities; employees are 

encouraged to identify Arizona-based nonprofits that have a direct impact on social and economic 

issues. In 2012, NB|AZ gave more than $1 million in cash and in-kind charitable contributions support-

ing affordable housing, arts & culture, economic development, education & financial literacy, health & 

human services and neighborhood revitalization.
Nevada State Bank
Nevada State Bank has al
ways pr
omoted financial education, but since 2010 it has brought its 
“Banking on Your Future” lessons to two special groups in the community: homeless women and 

youth offenders. The program features six modules on essential topics such as banking, renting an 

apartment, using credit wisely, careers and time management. More than 600 individuals have been 

educated at each of these two community organizations.
Vectra Bank Colorado
As part of Vectra Bank’s commitment to its community, it supports the efforts of Community 

Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs), which are financial institutions that provide credit and 

financial services to underserved markets and populations for community development. There are 

currently at least five CDFI’s operating in Colorado, all with different lending focuses and criteria.
Zions BankIn 1991, Harris Simmons conceived of Utah’s largest single-employer volunteer event of its kind: the 

annual Paint-a-Thon. Over the past 22 summers, thousands of bank employees and their families have 

set aside a week to paint and improve the homes in local communities. The Paint-a-Thon benefits 

low-income, elderly and disabled homeowners in Idaho and Utah. The large-scale volunteer effort 

demon strates the bank’s commitment to helping senior citizens maintain their independence, dignity 
and health.2012
 YEAR IN REVIEW23