2013 Annual Report  
to Shareholders 
To Our ShareholdersJoseph L. Hooley Chairman, President and  

Chief Executive Ofﬁcer 
IntroductionOur strong performance in 2013 focused on three key areas: growing our core businesses, controlling our expenses and returning capital to our shareholders. While we benefited from strong equity 
markets, we also executed on our strategic priorities against the headwinds of low interest rates and 
increased regulatory requirements.Summary Financial ResultsA strong performance can only be built upon a strong foundation, and our revenue growth and 
earnings in 2013 proved to be no exception to that rule. In 2013, our strategic investments in our 
business enabled us to expand our range of solutions for clients. We balanced these investments with 

continued expense control, including the savings we created from our ongoing implementation of our 
Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation program. These actions, combined with 

revenue growth, resulted in positive operating leverage1 for 2013 compared to 2012. The strength of our foundation is also reflected in our performance against several key metrics. Our 2013 GAAP-basis diluted earnings per common share were $4.62, a 10 percent increase compared to 
$4.20 in 2012, with 2013 GAAP-basis revenue of $9.88 billion, a 2 percent increase over 2012 revenue 
of $9.65 billion. Our 2013 GAAP-basis return on average common shareholders™ equity was 10.5 percent, 

compared to 10.3 percent in 2012. On an operating basis2, our 2013 diluted earnings per common share were $4.54, up 15 percent from $3.95 in 2012. Operating-basis revenue increased 3 percent to $10.05 
billion in 2013 from $9.73 billion in 2012, and operating-basis return on average common shareholders™ 

equity was 10.3 percent in 2013, up from 9.7 percent in 2012. Our 2013 core fee revenue, which is 
composed of fees from asset servicing and asset management, increased 10 percent from 2012.While we faced environmental challenges in 2013, we were able to leverage several competitive advantages that will continue to help drive our success and our long-term value. These include:
Ł Our focused strategy fueled by macro trends, including globalization, retirement savings and 
increased regulation and complexity;Ł An extensive global footprint;

Ł Our strong capital position, with some of the highest ratios in the industry; and

Ł Number 1 or 2 positions in high-growth markets, such as servicing alternative investments
3 and exchange-traded funds, or ETFs4.  We™ve found that globalization has made the world and the needs of our clients much more dynamic. 
The ongoing expansion of investment and distribution channels continues to make markets more open 
and accessible, enabling investors to consider opportunities worldwide. With our expansive footprint in 
more than 100 geographic markets, we can support our clients with a consistent approach that uses local 
insights to capitalize on opportunities in existing and developing markets. In 2013, approximately 43 
percent of our total revenue came from outside the U.S., and approximately 33 percent of our new 
business in asset servicing came from non-U.S. clients. In addition, approximately 48 percent of our 
employees work outside of the U.S.The promise and the impact of a global issue and a local solution are best demonstrated by our approach to the significant opportunities provided by the evolution in retirement savings plans worldwide. 
Retirement savings are increasing, with defined contribution, or DC, plans now comprising 43 percent of 
global pension assets5. We expect this trend to encourage wider savings in developed markets, while 
pension reform will be an important driver of investment assets in emerging markets. As a leading 

servicer of both mutual funds and ETFs, the principal vehicles for DC plans, we are well positioned to 
capitalize on these opportunities.Delivering Value to Our Clients 
Just as macro- and micro-level trends can influence our financial performance, we believe that it™s 
our ability to focus on the macro and the micro that is at the heart of how we deliver value to our clients. In 2013, we continued to experience strong demand for our solutions across our global client base - resulting in commitments of more than $1 trillion of new assets to be serviced from both current and new 
clients. Alternative investments, for example, are an important option for asset managers and owners to 

combat a low-yield environment. Our alternative investment servicing business has grown at a compound 
annual growth rate of 32 percent from 2005 to 2013 compared to a compound annual growth rate of 14 
percent for the rest of the market6.ETFs also remain a popular investment class. At the end of 2013, ETF assets under management 
by State Street Global Advisors, or SSgA, reached a record level of $399 billion, representing a year-

over-year increase of 18 percent. Transforming Our Operating Model 
At the end of 2010 we announced our Business Operations and Information Technology 
Transformation
 program. The core of this program is built on a simple idea - reducing costs while 
improving the client experience. This includes utilizing Lean technologies designed to eliminate 

redundant processes. We have been standardizing and automating processes and, where feasible, leveraging our Centers 
of Excellence to streamline operations. On the IT side, we™ve been migrating to our patented private 

cloud computing environment, which is already enabling us to:Ł Respond to client requests more rapidly,

Ł Develop new products more quickly, and

Ł Deliver products more efficiently.
In 2013, we achieved our targeted incremental pre-tax expense savings from the program of approximately $220 million, and previously, we achieved incremental pre-tax expense savings of 

approximately $112 million in 2012 and $86 million in 2011, in each case compared to our 2010 

expenses from operations, all else being equal7. In 2014, we expect to continue to benefit from the impact of this multi-year program with the development of new solutions. Our goal is to become a truly 
digital enterprise with the agility necessary to respond quickly to our clients™ needs.  
Optimizing Capital to Create Value 
Creating value for our shareholders has always been one of our top priorities and an important element of our long-term focus. Our financial strength and approach to capital management have 
enabled us to maintain consistently strong regulatory capital ratios, both under Basel I as reported and as 
estimated under the final U.S. Basel III standards. We™ve maintained these regulatory capital ratios while 

also returning capital, in the form of common stock dividends and purchases of our common stock, to our 
shareholders. In 2013, we purchased approximately 31.2 million shares of our common stock, including 
24.7 million shares under the $2.1 billion program approved by our Board of Directors in March 2013 that 
ran through March 2014. We declared a total of $1.04 per share in common stock dividends in 2013.
Pursuing New Opportunities All new technical innovations, regulatory and market changes bring with them not only challenges, but opportunities. With our experience in servicing complex investment structures and products, we are 
well positioned to deliver additional flexible solutions for our clients. Every day, the world creates 2.5 

quintillion bytes of data8. We already safe keep a critical mass of data for our clients, and combined with 
our innovative, proprietary research, we can offer clients sophisticated data and analytics solutions that 

deliver improved insights into their portfolios. We know that gathering, standardizing and reconciling an overwhelming amount of data is a real 
concern for our clients. In a 2013 survey, we commissioned with the Economist Intelligence Unit of more 

than 400 asset owners and managers globally, 9 out of 10 cited data and analytics as a key strategic 

priority.  
To help our clients manage this challenge, we created a new business called State Street Global 
Exchange. As a trusted partner to the world™s largest asset owners and asset managers, we intend to 

meet market demand for more sophisticated data and analytics solutions. Supporting Our CommunitiesWe measure our success not only by the bottom line, but also in the change we make in the 
communities in which we live and work. In 2013, our employees volunteered more than 87,000 hours, 
and our State Street Foundation provided $19.6 million in grants to nonprofit organizations globally, 

including $4.5 million in employee contributions from our Matching Gift Program. This contributed to 

State Street being listed as one of the top 100 Best Corporate Citizens by Corporate Responsibility Magazine™s annual ranking for the seventh consecutive year.
The Way Ahead
These past few years have not been easy, but we™ve reacted by improving many aspects of our 
business as well as by embracing change and creating innovative solutions for our clients. We are well 

positioned to execute on our long-term strategy of building on our strong core, achieving a digital 
enterprise, maintaining our capital strength and pursuing new opportunities.We appreciate your investment in State Street, and we will continue to work hard to reward your 
confidence in us. Sincerely,
Joseph L. HooleyChairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

March 24, 20141   Operating leverage is defined as the rate of growth of total revenue less the rate of growth of total expenses, each as determined on a non-GAAP, or operating basis. Also see note (2) below.
2  This letter to shareholders includes financial information presented on a GAAP basis as well as on a non-GAAP, or ﬁoperatingﬂ 
basis. Management measures and compares certain financial information on an operating basis, as it believes that this 
presentation supports meaningful comparisons from period to period and the analysis of comparable financial trends with 
respect to State Street™s normal ongoing business operations. Management believes that operating-basis financial information, 

which reports revenue from non-taxable sources, such as interest revenue from tax-exempt investment securities and 
processing fees and other revenue associated with tax-advantaged investments, on a fully-taxable equivalent basis and 
excludes the impact of revenue and expenses outside of the normal course of business, facilitates an investor™s understanding 

and analysis of State Street™s underlying financial performance and trends in addition to financial information prepared and 

reported in conformity with GAAP. Operating-basis, or non-GAAP, financial measures should be considered in addition to, not 

as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in conformity with GAAP.
3   No. 1 in alternative asset servicing globally. Sources: HFM Week 20
th Biannual Assets Under Administration Survey (June 
2013) and Custody Risk Alternative Fund Administration Survey 2013 (May 2013). 
4   ﬁETF assets up 21.4% for year; top 3 providers hold their rank.ﬂ Randy Diamond. Pensions and Investments. September 16, 2013. 5  Towers Watson, Global Pensions Asset Study 2012. 
6  Hedge Fund Market - Hedge Fund Research, January 2014; Private Equity Market - Prequin, January 2014; Real Estate Market - Towers Watson, July 2013, PI Online (2005-2008).
7  These pre-tax expense savings relate only to the Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation program 
and are based on projected improvement from our total 2010 expenses from operations, all else being equal. Our actual total 
expenses have increased since 2010, and may in the future increase or decrease, due to other factors.8  ﬁCustomer Analytics Pay Off.ﬂ IBM. January 2012. 
CORPORATE INFORMATION 
CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS 
State Street Corporation State Street Financial Center 
One Lincoln Street 
Boston, Massachusetts 02111-2900 

Website: 
www.statestreet.com
 General Inquiries: +1 617 786 3000 ANNUAL MEETING 
Wednesday, May 14, 2014, 9:00 a.m. at Corporate Headquarters 
TRANSFER AGENT Registered shareholders wishing to change name or address information on their shares, transfer ownership of stock, deposit certificates, report lost certificates, consolidate accounts, authorize direct deposit of dividends, or 
receive information on our dividend reinvestment plan should contact: American Stock Transfer & Trust Co., LLC
Operations Center
6201 15th Avenue

Brooklyn, NY 11219

Phone: +1 866 714 7293 
Website: 
www.amstock.com
 E-mail: info@amstock.com STOCK LISTINGS 
State Street's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol STT. 
SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 
For timely information about State Street's consolidated financial results and other matters of interest to shareholders, and to request copies of our news releases and financial reports by fax or mail, please visit our 
website at: www.statestreet.com/stockholder
 or call +1 877 639 7788 [NEWS STT] toll-free in the U.S. and Canada, or +1 678 999 4577 outside those countries.  These services are available 24 hours a day, seven days a week. 
For copies of our Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, quarterly earnings press releases, Current Reports on Form 8-K or additional copies of this Annual Report to Shareholders, please visit our website, call our shareholder 

services telephone line described above, or write to Investor Relations at Corporate Headquarters. Copies are 
provided without charge. Investors and analysts interested in additional financial information may contact our Investor Relations department at Corporate Headquarters, telephone +1 617 664 3477.UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
  Form 10-KANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013 ORTRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACTOF 1934For the transition period from                      to                     Commission File No. 001-07511
STATE STREET CORPORATION
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)Massachusetts 04-2456637(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation) (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
One Lincoln StreetBoston, Massachusetts 02111(Address of principal executive office) (Zip Code)
617-786-3000(Registrant™s telephone number, including area code)
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:(Title of Each Class) (Name of each exchange on which registered)Common Stock, $1 par value per share New York Stock ExchangeDepositary Shares, each representing a 1/4,000th ownership interestin a share of Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series C,without par value per shareNew York Stock ExchangeSecurities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
NoneIndicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes 
    No   Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Y
es    No   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during 
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  
   No Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every 
Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§ 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or f
or such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).  Yes  
  No Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant™s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in
 Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a 
smaller reporting company. See the 
definitions of ﬁlarge accelerated filer,ﬂ ﬁaccelerated filerﬂ and ﬁsmaller reporting companyﬂ in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act
. (Check one):    Large accelerated filer  
Accelerated filer  Non-accelerated filer  Smaller reporting company  (Do not check if a smaller reporting 
company)Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).  Yes  
  No  The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates computed by reference to the per s
hare price ($65.21) at which the common equity was last sold as of the last business day of the registrant™s most recently completed second fiscal qua
rter (June 28, 2013) was approximately $29.06 billion.The number of shares of the registrant™s common stock outstanding as of January 31, 2014 was 431,634,583.

Portions of the following documents are incorporated by reference into Parts of this Report on Form 10-K, to the extent noted in such Parts, as indicated below:(1) The registrant™s definitive Proxy Statement for the 2014 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed pursuant to Regulation 
14A on or before April 29, 2014 
(Part III).STATE STREET CORPORATION
Table of Contents
 PART IItem 1Item 1A
Item 1B
Item 2
Item 3
Item 4PART IIItem 5Item 6Item 7Item 7AItem 8
Item 9Item 9AItem 9BPART IIIItem 10Item 11
Item 12Item 13Item 14PART IVItem 15Business3Risk Factors16Unresolved Staff Comments38

Properties38Legal Proceedings39Mine Safety Disclosures41Executive Officers of the Registrant42
Market for Registrant™s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer 
Purchases of Equity Securities43Selected Financial Data47Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of 
Operations48Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk122
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data122
Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial 
Disclosure212Controls and Procedures212Other Information214Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance214
Executive Compensation214Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters214Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence215
Principal Accounting Fees and Services215
Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules215
SIGNATURES
216EXHIBIT INDEX
2173PART I
ITEM 1. BUSINESSGENERALState Street Corporation, the parent company, is a financial holding company organized in 1969 under the laws 
of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.  For purposes of this Form 10-K, unless the context requires otherwise, 
references to ﬁState Street,ﬂ ﬁwe,ﬂ ﬁus,ﬂ ﬁourﬂ or similar terms mean State Street Corporation and its subsidiaries on 
a consolidated basis.  The parent company provides financial and managerial support to our legal and operating 

subsidiaries.  Through our subsidiaries, including our principal banking subsidiary, State Street Bank and Trust 

Company, referred to as State Street Bank, we provide a broad range of financial products and services to 

institutional investors worldwide. As of December 31, 2013, we had consolidated total assets of $243.29 billion, consolidated total deposits of $182.27 billion, consolidated total shareholders' equity of $20.38 billion and 29,430 employees.  Our executive 
offices are located at One Lincoln Street, Boston, Massachusetts 02111 (telephone (617) 786-3000).  We operate in 

more than 100 geographic markets worldwide, including the U.S., Canada, Europe, the Middle East and Asia. 
We make available on the ﬁInvestor Relationsﬂ section of our corporate website at 
www.statestreet.com
, free of charge, all reports we electronically file with, or furnish to, the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, 
including our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K, as 

well as any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after those documents have been filed 
with, or furnished to, the SEC.  These documents are also accessible on the SEC™s website at 
www.sec.gov
.  We 
have included the website addresses of State Street and the SEC in this report as inactive textual references only.  

Information on those websites is not part of this Form 10-K.We have Corporate Governance Guidelines, as well as written charters for the Executive Committee, the 
Examining & Audit Committee, the Executive Compensation Committee, the Risk and Capital Committee and the 

Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors, or Board, and a Code of Ethics for 
senior financial officers, a Standard of Conduct for Directors and a Standard of Conduct for our employees.  Each of 

these documents is posted on our website. We provide additional disclosures required by applicable bank regulatory standards, including supplemental 
qualitative and quantitative information with respect to market risk associated with our trading activities, and 
summary results of semi-annual State Street-run stress tests which we conduct under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street 

Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank Act, on the ﬁInvestor Relationsﬂ section of our website.
BUSINESS DESCRIPTIONOverviewWe are a leader in providing financial services and products to meet the needs of institutional investors 
worldwide, with $27.43 trillion of assets under custody and administration and $2.35 trillion of assets under 
management as of December 31, 2013.  Our clients include mutual funds, collective investment funds and other 
investment pools, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies, foundations, endowments and 
investment managers. We conduct our business primarily through State Street Bank, which traces its beginnings to the founding of 
the Union Bank in 1792.  State Street Bank's current charter was authorized by a special Act of the Massachusetts 

Legislature in 1891, and its present name was adopted in 1960.  State Street Bank operates as a specialized bank, 
referred to as a trust and custody bank, that services and manages assets on behalf of its institutional clients.  Additional InformationAdditional information about our business activities is provided in the sections that follow.  For information 
about our management of credit and counterparty risk; liquidity risk; operational risk; market risk associated with our 
trading activities; market risk associated with our non-trading, or asset-and-liability management, activities, primarily 
composed of interest-rate risk; and capital, as well as other risks inherent in our businesses, refer to ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ 
included under Item 1A, the ﬁFinancial Conditionﬂ section of Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial 

Condition and Results of Operations, or Management's Discussion and Analysis, included under Item 7, and our 

consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included under Item 8, of this Form 10-K. 4LINES OF BUSINESSWe have two lines of business: Investment Servicing and Investment Management.  
Investment Servicing Our Investment Servicing line of business performs core custody and related value-added functions, such as providing institutional investors with clearing, payment and settlement services.  Our financial services and products 
allow our large institutional investor clients to execute financial transactions on a daily basis in markets across the 
globe.  As most institutional investors cannot economically or efficiently build their own technology and operational 

processes necessary to facilitate their global securities settlement needs, our role as a global trust and custody 
bank is generally to aid our clients to efficiently perform services associated with the clearing, settlement and 

execution of securities transactions and related payments. Our investment servicing products and services include: custody; product- and participant-level accounting; daily pricing and administration; master trust and master custody; record-keeping; cash management; foreign 
exchange, brokerage and other trading services; securities finance; deposit and short-term investment facilities; 
loans and lease financing; investment manager and alternative investment manager operations outsourcing; and 
performance, risk and compliance analytics.  We provide mutual fund custody and accounting services in the U.S.  We offer clients a broad range of 
integrated products and services, including accounting, daily pricing and fund administration.  We service U.S. tax-

exempt assets for corporate and public pension funds, and we provide trust and valuation services for daily-priced 
portfolios. We are a service provider outside of the U.S. as well.  In Germany, Italy, France and Luxembourg, we provide 
depotbank services (a fund oversight role created by regulation) for retail and institutional fund assets, as well as 
custody and other services to pension plans and other institutional clients.  In the U.K., we provide custody services 
for pension fund assets and administration services for mutual fund assets.  As of December 31, 2013, we serviced 

approximately $1.26 trillion of offshore assets in funds located primarily in Luxembourg, Ireland, the Cayman Islands 

and Canada.  As of December 31, 2013, we serviced $1.15 trillion of assets under administration in the Asia/Pacific 

region, and in Japan, we serviced approximately 97% of the trust assets serviced by non-domestic trust banks.We are an alternative asset servicing provider worldwide, servicing hedge, private equity and real estate funds.  
As of December 31, 2013, we had approximately $1.25 trillion of alternative assets under administration.Investment ManagementWe provide our Investment Management services through State Street Global Advisors, or SSgA.  SSgA 
provides a broad array of investment management, investment research and investment advisory services to 
corporations, public funds and other sophisticated investors.  SSgA offers strategies for managing financial assets, 

including passive and active, such as enhanced indexing, using quantitative and fundamental methods for both U.S. 
and global equities and fixed-income securities.  SSgA also offers exchange-traded funds, or ETFs, such as the 

SPDR® ETF brand.  Additional information about our lines of business is provided under ﬁLine of Business Informationﬂ in Management's Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7, and in note 25 to the consolidated financial 

statements included under Item 8, of this Form 10-K.COMPETITIONWe operate in a highly competitive environment and face global competition in all areas of our business.  Our 
competitors include a broad range of financial institutions and servicing companies, including other custodial banks, 
deposit-taking institutions, investment management firms, insurance companies, mutual funds, broker/dealers, 
investment banks, benefits consultants, business service and software companies and information services firms.   
As our businesses grow and markets evolve, we may encounter increasing and new forms of competition around 
the world.We believe that many key factors drive competition in the markets for our business.  For Investment Servicing, 
quality of service, economies of scale, technological expertise, quality and scope of sales and marketing, required 
levels of capital and price drive competition, and are critical to our servicing business.  For Investment 
Management, key competitive factors include expertise, experience, availability of related service offerings, quality 

of service and performance, and price.5Our competitive success may depend on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services, to adopt or develop new technologies, to bring new services to market in a timely fashion at competitive prices, to 
continue and expand our relationships with existing clients, and to attract new clients.SUPERVISION AND REGULATION
State Street is registered with the Federal Reserve as a bank holding company pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.  The Bank Holding Company Act, with certain exceptions, limits the activities in which we and 

our non-banking subsidiaries may engage to those that the Federal Reserve considers to be closely related to 
banking, or to managing or controlling banks.  These limits also apply to non-banking entities that we are deemed to 

ﬁcontrolﬂ for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act, which may include companies of which we own or control 

more than 5% of a class of voting shares.  The Federal Reserve may order a bank holding company to terminate 

any activity, or its ownership or control of a non-banking subsidiary, if the Federal Reserve finds that the activity, 

ownership or control constitutes a serious risk to the financial safety, soundness or stability of a banking subsidiary 

or is inconsistent with sound banking principles or statutory purposes.  The Bank Holding Company Act also 

requires a bank holding company to obtain prior approval of the Federal Reserve before it acquires substantially all 
the assets of any bank, or ownership or control of more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank.The parent company is qualified as, and has elected to become, a financial holding company, which increases 
to some extent the scope of activities in which it may engage.  A financial holding company and the entities under its 

control are permitted to engage in activities considered ﬁfinancial in natureﬂ as defined by the Bank Holding 
Company Act and the Federal Reserve™s implementing rules and interpretations, and therefore State Street may 

engage in a broader range of activities than permitted for bank holding companies and their subsidiaries that have 
not elected to become financial holding companies.  Financial holding companies may engage directly or indirectly 
in activities that are defined to be financial in nature, either de novo or by acquisition, provided that the financial 
holding company gives the Federal Reserve after-the-fact notice of the new activities.  Activities defined to be 

financial in nature include, but are not limited to, the following: providing financial or investment advice; 
underwriting; dealing in or making markets in securities; making merchant banking investments, subject to 
significant limitations; and any activities previously found by the Federal Reserve to be closely related to banking.  
In order to maintain our status as a financial holding company, we and each of our depository institution subsidiaries 

must be well capitalized and well managed, as defined in applicable regulations and determined in part by the 
results of regulatory examinations, and must comply with Community Reinvestment Act obligations.  Failure to 
maintain these standards may ultimately permit the Federal Reserve to take enforcement actions against us and 
restrict our ability to engage in activities defined to be financial in nature.The Dodd-Frank Act, which became law in July 2010, has had, and will continue to have, a significant effect on 
the regulatory structure of the financial markets and supervision of bank holding companies, banks and other 
financial institutions.  The Dodd-Frank Act, among other things: established the Financial Stability Oversight 

Council, or FSOC, to monitor systemic risk posed by financial institutions; enacted new restrictions on proprietary 
trading and private-fund investment activities by banks and their affiliates, commonly known as the ﬁVolcker 

ruleﬂ (refer to our discussion of the Volcker rule provided below under ﬁRegulatory Capital Adequacy and Liquidity 

Standardsﬂ in this ﬁSupervision and Regulationﬂ section); created a new framework for the regulation of derivatives 
and the entities that engage in derivatives trading; altered the regulatory capital treatment of trust preferred and 
other hybrid capital securities; revised the assessment base that is used by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, or FDIC, to calculate deposit insurance premiums; and required large financial institutions to develop 
plans for their resolution under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (or other specifically applicable insolvency regime) in the 
event of material financial distress or failure. In addition, regulatory change is being implemented internationally with respect to financial institutions, including, but not limited to, the implementation of the Basel III capital and liquidity standards (refer to ﬁRegulatory 
Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standardsﬂ below in this ﬁSupervision and Regulationﬂ section and ﬁFinancial 

Condition - Capitalﬂ in Management's Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7 of this Form 10-K for a 

discussion of Basel III) and the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, or AIFMD, the European Market 

Infrastructure Resolution, or EMIR, anticipated revisions to the European collective investment fund, or UCITS, 
directive, revisions to the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, or MIFID, and ongoing review of European 
Union data protection regulation.Many aspects of our business are subject to regulation by other U.S. federal and state governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations (including securities exchanges), and by non-U.S. 
governmental and regulatory agencies and self-regulatory organizations.  Some aspects of our public disclosure, 6corporate governance principles and internal control systems are subject to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the 
Dodd-Frank Act and regulations and rules of the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange.
Regulatory Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standards
Like other U.S. bank holding companies, we and our depository institution subsidiaries are subject to the current U.S. minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratio guidelines, referred to as Basel I.  As noted above, the 

status of our parent company as a financial holding company also requires that we and our depository institution 
subsidiaries maintain specified regulatory capital ratio levels.  As of December 31, 2013, our regulatory capital 

levels on a consolidated basis, and the regulatory capital levels of State Street Bank, our principal banking 
subsidiary, exceeded the currently applicable minimum capital requirements under Basel I and the requirements we 

must meet for the parent company to qualify as a financial holding company.
In 2004, the Basel Committee released an enhanced capital adequacy framework, referred to as Basel II.  Basel II requires large and internationally active banking organizations, such as State Street, which generally rely 
on sophisticated risk management and measurement systems, to better align the use of those systems with their 
determination of regulatory capital requirements.  In 2007, U.S. banking regulators jointly issued final rules to 
implement the Basel II framework in the U.S.  The framework does not supersede or change the existing prompt 

corrective action and leverage capital requirements applicable to banking organizations in the U.S., and explicitly 
reserves the regulators' authority to require organizations to hold additional capital where appropriate.  In 2010, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, or Basel Committee, reached an agreement on the Basel III capital standards, which are designed to increase the quality and quantity of regulatory capital and 
enhance the risk coverage of the regulatory capital framework.  Basel III also introduces an internationally-agreed-
upon leverage ratio that serves to supplement the risk-based capital ratios.  In July 2013, U.S. banking regulators issued a final rule implementing Basel III in the U.S.  The U.S. Basel III 
final rule replaces the existing Basel I- and Basel II-based capital regulations in the United States.  As an ﬁadvanced 

approachesﬂ banking organization (refer to the ﬁFinancial Condition - Capitalﬂ section of Management's Discussion 
and Analysis included under Item 7 of this Form 10-K for a discussion of advanced approaches), State Street 

became subject to the U.S. Basel III final rule beginning on January 1, 2014.  However, certain aspects of the U.S. 

Basel III final rule, including the new minimum risk-based and leverage capital ratios, capital buffers, regulatory 

adjustments and deductions and revisions to the calculation of risk-weighted assets under the so-called 
ﬁstandardized approach,ﬂ will commence at a later date or be phased in over several years.Among other things, the U.S. Basel III final rule introduces a minimum common equity tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4.5%, raises the minimum tier 1 risk-based capital ratio from 4% to 6%, and, for advanced approaches 
banking organizations such as State Street, imposes a minimum supplementary tier 1 leverage ratio of 3%, the 
numerator of which is tier 1 capital and the denominator of which includes both on-balance sheet assets and certain 
off-balance sheet exposures.  In addition to the supplementary leverage ratio, State Street is subject to a minimum 

tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%, which differs from the supplementary leverage ratio primarily in that the denominator of 

the tier 1 leverage ratio is quarterly average on-balance sheet assets.  The U.S. Basel III final rule also introduces a capital conservation buffer and a countercyclical capital buffer 
that add to the minimum risk-based capital ratios.  Specifically, the final rule limits a banking organization™s ability to 

make capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments to executive officers if it fails to maintain a common 

equity tier 1 capital conservation buffer of more than 2.5% of total risk-weighted assets and, if deployed during 

periods of excessive credit growth, a common equity tier 1 countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5% of total risk-

weighted assets, above each of the minimum common equity tier 1, and tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios.  
Banking regulators have initially set the countercyclical capital buffer at zero.  
To maintain the status of our parent company as a financial holding company, we and our insured depository 
institution subsidiaries are required to be ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ by maintaining capital ratios above the minimum 
requirements.  Effective beginning on January 1, 2015, the ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ standard for our banking subsidiaries 

will be revised to reflect the higher capital requirements in the U.S. Basel III final rule.  In addition to introducing new capital ratios and buffers, the U.S. Basel III final rule revises the eligibility criteria 
for regulatory capital instruments and provides for the phase-out of existing capital instruments that do not satisfy 
the new criteria.  For example, existing trust preferred capital securities are being phased out from tier 1 capital over 
a two-year period beginning on January 1, 2014 and ending on January 1, 2016, and subsequently, the qualification 

of these securities as tier 2 capital will be phased out over a multi-year transition period beginning on January 1, 
2016 and ending on January 1, 2022.  We had trust preferred capital securities of $950 million outstanding as of 

December 31, 2013.7Under the U.S. Basel III final rule, certain new items will be deducted from common equity tier 1 capital and certain existing regulatory capital deductions will be modified.  Among other things, the final rule requires significant 

investments in the common stock of unconsolidated financial institutions, as defined, and certain deferred tax 
assets that exceed specified individual and aggregate thresholds to be deducted from common equity tier 1 capital.  
As an advanced approaches banking organization, after-tax unrealized gains and losses on investment securities 
classified as available for sale, which are excluded from tier 1 capital under Basel I and Basel II, will be included in 
State Street™s and State Street Bank's tier 1 capital, subject to a phase-in schedule.  
Beginning on January 1, 2015, the U.S. Basel III final rule will replace the existing Basel I-based approach for calculating risk-weighted assets with the U.S. Basel III standardized approach that, among other things, modifies 
certain existing risk weights and introduces new methods for calculating risk-weighted assets for certain types of 
assets and exposures.  The final rule also revised the existing Basel II-based advanced approaches capital rules to 

implement Basel III and certain provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act.  In December 2013, the Federal Reserve made 

certain technical revisions to the new market risk capital rule, to which we became subject beginning on January 1, 
2013.We are currently in the qualification, or parallel run, period that must be completed prior to our full 
implementation of the Basel III advanced approaches capital rules.  During this qualification period, we must 
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Federal Reserve that our models, systems and processes for calculating 
capital comply with the qualitative and quantitative requirements in the Basel III advanced approaches capital rules.While we are in the qualification period, we must report our risk-based capital calculations under the Basel III advanced approaches capital rules to the Federal Reserve.  Upon completion of the qualification period and with 
the approval of the Federal Reserve, we will begin to use the Basel III advanced approaches capital rules to 
calculate our risk-based capital ratios. However, under the U.S. banking regulators™ implementation of a provision of 

the Dodd-Frank Act, we will be subject to a capital floor which is currently based on Basel I and will, beginning in 

2015, be based on the U.S. Basel III standardized approach.  As a result, we will be required to calculate our risk-

based capital ratios under both the Basel III advanced approach and either the Basel I or Basel III standardized 
approach, as applicable, and we will be subject to the more stringent of the risk-based capital ratios calculated 
under the standardized approach and those calculated under the advanced approach in the assessment of our 
capital adequacy under the prompt corrective action framework.On February 21, 2014, we were notified by the Federal Reserve that we have completed our parallel run period and will be required to begin using the advanced approaches framework as provided in the Federal 
Reserve's July 2013 Basel III final rule in the determination of our risk-based capital requirements.  Pursuant to this 
notification, we will use the advanced approaches framework to calculate and publicly disclose our risk-based 
capital ratios beginning with the second quarter of 2014.  Under the July 2013 Basel III final rule, we must meet the 
minimum risk-based capital ratios under both the advanced approaches and generally applicable risk-based capital 
frameworks in Basel III and Basel I, respectively.     
In addition to the U.S. Basel III final rule, the Dodd-Frank Act requires the Federal Reserve to establish more 
stringent capital requirements for large bank holding companies, including State Street.  The Federal Reserve has 

indicated that it intends to address this requirement by, among other things, implementing the Basel Committee™s 

capital surcharge for ﬁglobal systemically important banks,ﬂ or G-SIBs.  The Financial Stability Board, or FSB, has 

identified 29 institutions worldwide as G-SIBs and assigned each G-SIB a common equity tier 1 capital surcharge 
ranging from 1.0% to 2.5% of the respective G-SIB's risk-weighted assets.  We have been identified as a G-SIB with 

a capital surcharge of 1.0%.  This surcharge is subject to change from time to time by the FSB.  The FSB has stated 

that it intends to update its list of G-SIBs annually.
The Federal Reserve has also indicated that it may introduce a requirement that certain large bank holding companies maintain a minimum amount of long-term debt at the holding company level to facilitate their orderly 
resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure.  Depending on the ultimate regulation, our parent 
company could be required to issue additional long-term debt to comply with this requirement.  If issued, this 
additional long-term debt will likely increase our interest expense and reduce our net interest revenue.  We cannot 

predict the magnitude or the timing of the impact at this time.The following table presents our tier 1 common ratio as of December 31, 2013, calculated using Basel I standards, and our estimated tier 1 common ratios as of December 31, 2013, calculated in conformity with the 
Basel III final rule under both the standardized approach and the advanced approach.  These estimated Basel III tier 

1 common ratios are preliminary, reflect tier 1 common equity calculated under the Basel III final rule as applicable 

on its January 1, 2014 effective date, and are based on our present understanding of the final rule's impact.  As 

indicated above, under the Basel III final rule, the more stringent of the Basel III tier 1 common ratios calculated by 8us under the standardized and advanced approaches will apply in the assessment of our capital adequacy under the prompt corrective action framework.December 31, 2013Currently Applicable Regulatory Requirements(1)Basel III Final Rule Standardized Approach (Estimated)(2)Basel III Final Rule Advanced Approach                              (Estimated)(2)(Dollars in millions)Tier 1 capital$13,895$13,216$13,216
Less:
   Trust preferred capital securities950475475
   Preferred stock491491491
Plus:
   OtherŠ8787
Tier 1 common capital$12,454$12,337$12,337
Total risk-weighted assets
 $80,126$121,562$104,919
Tier 1 common ratio15.5%10.1%11.8%Minimum tier 1 common ratio requirement, assuming fullimplementation on January 1, 20194.54.5
Capital conservation buffer, assuming full implementation on January1, 20192.52.5
Minimum tier 1 common ratio requirement, including capital conservation buffer, assuming full implementation on January 1, 

2019(3)7.07.0
(1)  Using Basel I standards, the tier 1 common ratio was calculated by dividing (a) tier 1 risk-based capital, calculated in conformity with Basel I, less non-common elements including qualifying trust preferred capital securities and qualifying perpetual preferred stock, or tier 1 common capital, by (b) total risk-weighted assets, calculated in conformity with Basel I.  (2)  As of December 31, 2013, for purposes of the calculations in conformity with the Basel III final rule, capital and total risk-weighted assets under both the standardized approach and the advanced approach were calculated using our estimates, based on the provisions of the final rule expected to affect 
capital in 2014.  The tier 1 common ratio was calculated by dividing (a) tier 1 common capital, as described in footnote (1), b
ut with tier 1 risk-based capital calculated in conformity with the final rule, by (b) total risk-weighted assets, calculated in conformity with the Basel III final rule.  These estimated 
Basel III tier 1 common ratios are preliminary, reflect tier 1 common equity calculated under the Basel III final rule as appli
cable on its January 1, 2014 effective date, and are based on our present understanding of the final rule's impact.  
Ł   Under both the standardized and advanced approaches, tier 1 risk-based capital decreased by $679 million, as a result of ap
plying the estimated effect of the Basel III final rule to Basel I tier 1 risk-based capital of $13.90 billion as of December 31, 2013.  
Ł   Under both the standardized and advanced approaches, estimated tier 1 common capital used in the calculation of the tier 1 common ratio was $12.34 billion, reflecting the adjustments to Basel I tier 1 risk-based capital described in the first bullet above.  Tier 1 co
mmon capital used in the calculation was therefore calculated as adjusted tier 1 risk-based capital of $13.22 billion less non-common elements of capita
l, composed of trust preferred capital securities of $475 million, preferred stock of $491 million, and other adjustments of $87 million as of December 31, 2013, resulting in estimated tier 1 common capital of $12.34 billion.  As of December 31, 2013, there was no qualifying minority inte
rest in subsidiaries.  Ł   Under the standardized approach, total risk-weighted assets used in the calculation of the estimated tier 1 common ratio increased by $41.44 
billion as a result of applying the provisions of the Basel III final rule to Basel I total risk-weighted assets of $80.13 billion as of December 31, 2013. Under the advanced approach, total risk-weighted assets used in the calculation of the estimated tier 1 common ratio increased by $24.79 billion 
as a result of applying the provisions of the final rule to Basel I total risk-weighted assets of $80.13 billion as of December
 31, 2013.      The primary differences between total risk-weighted assets under Basel I and total risk-weighted assets under the Basel III
 final rule include the following: under Basel I, credit risk is quantified using pre-determined risk weights and asset classes, and in part, uses external credit ratings, while the Basel III final rule, specifically the standardized and advanced approaches, introduces a broader range of pre-determined risk weights and asset classes, uses certain alternatives to external credit ratings, includes additional adjustments for operational risk (under the advanced approach) and counterparty credit risk, and revises the treatment of equity exposures.  In particular, asset securitization exposures receive
 higher risk weights under both the standardized and advanced approaches in the Basel III final rule compared to Basel I.(3) The minimum tier 1 common ratio requirement does not reflect the countercyclical capital buffer under the Basel III final rule,
 or the capital buffer for 
large bank holding companies identified as G-SIBs prescribed by the Basel Committee (G-SIBs are described earlier in this ﬁRegulatory Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standardsﬂ section); such countercyclical capital buffer, which is initially set at zero, would be estab
lished by banking regulators under certain economic conditions, and U.S. banking regulators have not yet issued a proposal to implement the prescribed capital buffer for 
systemically important financial institutions.  The estimated Basel III tier 1 common ratio as of December 31, 2013 presented above, calculated under the advanced approach in conformity with the Basel III final rule, reflects calculations and determinations with respect to 
our capital and related matters as of December 31, 2013, based on State Street and external data, quantitative 
formulae, statistical models, historical correlations and assumptions, collectively referred to as ﬁadvanced systems,ﬂ 
in effect and used by State Street for those purposes as of the time we filed this Form 10-K.  Significant components 

of these advanced systems involve the exercise of judgment by us and our regulators, and our advanced systems 
may not accurately represent or calculate the scenarios, circumstances, outputs or other results for which they are 
designed or intended.9Due to the influence of changes in these advanced systems, whether resulting from changes in data inputs, regulation or regulatory supervision or interpretation, State Street-specific or market activities or experiences or 
other updates or factors, we expect that our advanced systems and our capital ratios calculated in conformity with 
the Basel III final rule will change and may be volatile over time, and that those latter changes or volatility could be 
material as calculated and measured from period to period.Supplementary Leverage RatioIn July 2013, U.S. banking regulators jointly issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, or NPR, which proposes to enhance leverage ratio standards for the largest, most systemically significant U.S. banking organizations.  The 

July 2013 NPR applies to any U.S. bank holding company with at least $700 billion in consolidated total assets or at 
least $10 trillion in total assets under custody, referred to as a covered bank holding company, and any insured 

depository institution subsidiary of such bank holding company.  We expect the standards to apply to State Street 

and State Street Bank based on our total assets under custody.
Under Basel I, the tier 1 leverage ratio is calculated by dividing tier 1 capital by adjusted quarterly average on-balance sheet assets.  The Basel III final rule provides for a leverage ratio similar to Basel I, as well as a 

supplementary leverage ratio for advanced approaches banking organizations.  This supplementary leverage ratio 

adds certain off-balance sheet exposures, such as those related to derivative contracts and unfunded lending 

commitments, to the denominator of the ratio calculation.Under the July 2013 NPR, as a covered bank holding company, we would be required to maintain a 
supplementary tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5%, which is 2% above the similar minimum Basel III supplementary 
tier 1 leverage ratio of 3% referenced earlier in this ﬁRegulatory Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standardsﬂ
 section.  Failure to exceed the 5% supplementary tier 1 leverage ratio would subject us to restrictions on our capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments.  In addition to this leverage buffer for covered bank holding 

companies, the July 2013 NPR would require insured depository institution subsidiaries of covered bank holding 
companies, like State Street Bank, to maintain a 6% supplementary tier 1 leverage ratio to be considered ﬁwell 
capitalized.ﬂ  We are one of eight large U.S. banking organizations to which the July 2013 NPR would apply, and the 

July 2013 NPR would not apply to all banking organizations with which we compete.  If finalized as currently 
proposed, the new supplementary tier 1 leverage ratio requirements will be effective beginning on January 1, 2018.  

The July 2013 NPR is a proposed rule and subject to interpretation, regulatory guidance, industry and other comment and issuance in the form of a final rule.Separately, in January 2014, the Basel Committee finalized its revisions to the denominator of the Basel III 
supplementary tier 1 leverage ratio. The revised denominator differs from the denominator of the supplementary 

leverage ratio in the July 2013 NPR and the U.S. Basel III final rule in several important respects that could 
adversely affect the calculation of our ratio, including the treatment of derivative contracts, securities financing 

transactions and certain off-balance sheet exposures.  U.S. banking regulators may issue rules to implement these 

revisions.  Liquidity Coverage Ratio and Net Stable Funding RatioIn addition to capital standards, Basel III introduced two quantitative liquidity standards: the liquidity coverage ratio, or LCR, and the net stable funding ratio, or NSFR.The LCR requires banking organizations to maintain a minimum amount of liquid assets to withstand a short-term liquidity stress period of thirty days.  It is intended to promote the short-term resilience of the liquidity risk 
profile of internationally active banking organizations, improve the banking industry's ability to absorb shocks arising 
from financial and economic stress, and improve the measurement and management of liquidity risk.  In October 
2013, U.S. banking regulators issued an NPR to implement the LCR in the U.S.  Among other things, the proposed 

LCR standard would require covered banking organizations, which includes us and State Street Bank, to maintain 
an amount of high-quality liquid assets, or HQLAs, equal to or greater than 100% of the banking organization™s total 

net cash outflows over a 30-calendar-day standardized supervisory liquidity stress scenario. The U.S. LCR proposal is more stringent in certain respects than the Basel Committee™s version of the LCR, 
and includes a generally narrower definition of HQLAs, a different methodology for calculating net cash outflows 

during the 30-calendar-day stress scenario, and a shorter, two-year phase-in period that ends on December 31, 

2016.  The October 2013 NPR is a proposed rule and may be modified before being finalized.  At such time as the 

Federal Reserve issues a final rule regarding the LCR, the specifications of such rule, such as the eligibility of 
assets as HQLAs, the calculation of net outflows, including the treatment of operational deposits, and the timing of 
indeterminate maturities, could have a material effect on our business activities, including the management and 
10composition of our investment securities portfolio and our ability to extend committed contingent credit facilities to our clients.The NSFR requires banking organizations to maintain a stable funding profile in relation to the composition of their assets and off-balance sheet activities.  The NSFR is defined as the amount of available stable funding relative 

to the amount of required stable funding.  This ratio should be equal to at least 100% on an ongoing basis.  The 

amount of available stable funding refers to the portion of capital and liabilities expected to be reliable over a one-
year horizon.  The amount of stable funding required of banking organizations is a function of the liquidity 

characteristics and residual maturities of their assets and off-balance sheet exposures.  In January 2014, the Basel 

Committee proposed revisions to the original December 2010 version of the NSFR.  Many of the proposed changes 
relate to the prescribed available stable funding factors and required stable funding factors used to calculate the 
NSFR.  The Basel Committee continues to contemplate the introduction of the NSFR, including any final revisions, 

as a minimum standard by January 1, 2018.  U.S. banking regulators have not yet issued an NPR to implement the 
NSFR.In addition to the LCR and NSFR, the Federal Reserve has indicated that it may introduce additional regulatory measures related to short-term wholesale funding in the form of securities financing transactions, such as 
repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, securities borrowing and lending transactions and margin 
loans.Failure to meet current and future regulatory capital requirements could subject us to a variety of enforcement actions, including the termination of State Street Bank's deposit insurance by the FDIC, and to certain restrictions 
on our business, including those that are described above in this ﬁSupervision and Regulationﬂ section.For additional information about our regulatory capital position and our regulatory capital adequacy, as well as 
current and future regulatory capital requirements, refer to ﬁFinancial Condition - Capitalﬂ in Management's 
Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7, and note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included under 

Item 8, of this Form 10-K. Capital Planning, Stress Tests and Dividends
Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve has adopted capital planning and stress test 
requirements for large bank holding companies, including us, which form part of the Federal Reserve™s annual 

Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review, or CCAR, framework.  Under the Federal Reserve™s capital plan final  

rule, we must submit an annual capital plan to the Federal Reserve, taking into account the results of separate 
stress tests designed by us and by the Federal Reserve.The capital plan must include a description of all of our planned capital actions over a nine-quarter planning horizon, including any issuance of a debt or equity capital instrument, any capital distribution, such as payments of 
dividends on, or purchases of, our stock, and any similar action that the Federal Reserve determines could affect 

our consolidated capital.  The capital plan must include a discussion of how we will maintain capital above the 

minimum regulatory capital ratios, including the minimum ratios under the U.S. Basel III final rule that are phased in 
over the planning horizon, and above a tier 1 common risk-based capital ratio of 5%, and serve as a source of 
strength to our U.S. depository institution subsidiaries under supervisory stress scenarios.  The capital plan 

requirements mandate that we receive no objection from the Federal Reserve before making a capital distribution.  
In addition, even with a capital plan for which we have received no objection from the Federal Reserve, we must 
seek the approval of the Federal Reserve before making a capital distribution if, among other reasons, we would not 
meet our regulatory capital requirements after making the proposed capital distribution.In addition to its capital planning requirements, the Federal Reserve has the authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations it supervises, including us and State Street Bank, if, in the 
Federal Reserve™s opinion, the payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the 

financial condition of the banking organization.  All of these policies and other requirements could affect our ability to 

pay dividends and purchase our stock, or require us to provide capital assistance to State Street Bank and any 
other banking subsidiary. 
We expect that, by March 31, 2014, the Federal Reserve will either provide a notice of non-objection or object 
to our 2014 capital plan, which we submitted to the Federal Reserve in January 2014. In October 2012, the Federal Reserve issued a final rule to implement its capital stress-testing requirements under the Dodd-Frank Act that require us to conduct semi-annual State Street-run stress tests.  Under this rule, we 

are required to publicly disclose the summary results of our State Street-run stress tests under the severely adverse 
economic scenario.  In September 2013, we provided summary results of our 2013 semi-annual State Street-run 11stress tests on the ﬁInvestor Relationsﬂ section of our corporate website.  The rule also subjects us to an annual 
supervisory stress test conducted by the Federal Reserve.  The Dodd-Frank Act also requires State Street Bank to conduct an annual stress test.  State Street Bank 
submitted its 2014 annual State Street Bank-run stress test to the Federal Reserve in January 2014.  The Volcker Rule
The Volcker rule became effective on July 21, 2012, and in December 2013, U.S. regulators issued final 
regulations to implement the Volcker rule.  The Volcker rule will, over time, prohibit ﬁbanking entities,ﬂ including us 

and our subsidiaries, from engaging in certain prohibited ﬁproprietary tradingﬂ activities, as defined in the final 
Volcker rule regulations, subject to specified exemptions.  The Volcker rule will also require banking entities to either 

restructure or divest of certain investments in, and relationships with, ﬁcovered funds,ﬂ as defined in the final Volcker 

rule regulations.  The classification of certain types of investment securities or structures, such as collateralized loan obligations, or CLOs, as ﬁcovered fundsﬂ remains subject to market, and ultimately regulatory, interpretation, based 

on the specific terms and other characteristics relevant to such investment securities and structures.  As of 

December 31, 2013, we held an aggregate of approximately $5.77 billion of investments in CLOs.  As of the same 

date, these investments had an aggregate pre-tax net unrealized gain of approximately $122 million, composed of 
gross unrealized gains of $141 million and gross unrealized losses of $19 million.  In the event that we or our 
banking regulators conclude that such investments in CLOs, or other investments, are ﬁcovered funds,ﬂ we may be 
required to divest of such investments.  If other banking entities reach similar conclusions with respect to similar 
investments held by them, the prices of such investments could decline significantly, and we may be required to 

divest of such investments at a significant discount compared to the investments' book value.  This could result in a 

material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in the period in which such a divestment occurs or 

on our consolidated financial condition.  Banking entities subject to the Volcker rule have until July 21, 2015 to bring all of their activities and 
investments into conformity with the Volcker rule, subject to possible extensions.  The final Volcker rule regulations 

also require banking entities to establish extensive programs to ensure compliance with the restrictions of the 
Volcker rule.  
We are reviewing our activities that are affected by the final Volcker rule regulations and are taking steps to 
bring those activities into conformity with the Volcker rule.  We are also in the process of establishing the necessary 

compliance programs to comply with the final Volcker rule regulations.  Given the complexity of the new framework, 

while we anticipate that the final rule will have some impact on our investment management and custody 
operations, we have not completed a full evaluation of the impact of the final Volcker rule regulations.  The impact of 

the Volcker rule on us will ultimately depend on the interpretation and implementation by the five regulatory 

agencies responsible for its oversight. Enhanced Prudential Standards  The Dodd-Frank Act established a new regulatory framework to regulate banking organizations designated as 
ﬁsystemically important financial institutions,ﬂ or SIFIs, and has subjected them to heightened prudential standards, 
including heightened capital, leverage, liquidity and risk management requirements, single-counterparty credit limits 
and early remediation requirements.  Bank holding companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets, which 
includes us, became automatically subject to the systemic-risk regime in July 2010.  The FSOC, established by the Dodd-Frank Act as discussed earlier, can recommend prudential standards, 
reporting and disclosure requirements to the Federal Reserve for SIFIs, and must approve any finding by the 
Federal Reserve that a financial institution poses a grave threat to financial stability and must undertake mitigating 
actions.  The FSOC is also empowered to designate systemically important payment, clearing and settlement 

activities of financial institutions, subjecting them to prudential supervision and regulation, and, assisted by the new 
Office of Financial Research within the U.S. Department of the Treasury, also established by the Dodd-Frank Act, 

can gather data and reports from financial institutions, including us.In December 2011, the Federal Reserve issued proposed rules to implement the Dodd-Frank Act™s enhanced 
prudential standards for large bank holding companies such as State Street.  Among other provisions, the proposed 

rules would require us to implement various liquidity-related risk management and corporate governance measures 
and limit our aggregate credit exposure to any unaffiliated counterparty (together with that counterparty™s 

subsidiaries) to 25% of our capital stock and surplus, as defined.  Refer to the risk factor titled ﬁWe assume 
significant credit risk to counterparties, many of which are major financial institutions. These financial institutions 
and other counterparties may also have substantial financial dependencies with other financial institutions and 12sovereign entities.  This credit exposure and concentration could expose us to financial lossﬂ included under Item 1A of this Form 10-K.  In addition, the proposed rules would create a new early-remediation regime to address 

financial distress or material management weaknesses determined with reference to four levels of early 
remediation, including heightened supervisory review, initial remediation, recovery, and resolution assessment, with 

specific limitations and requirements tied to each level.  The systemic-risk regime also provides that, for institutions deemed to pose a grave threat to U.S. financial stability, the Federal Reserve, upon an FSOC vote, must limit that institution™s ability to merge, restrict its ability to 

offer financial products, require it to terminate activities, impose conditions on activities or, as a last resort, require it 

to dispose of assets.  Upon a grave-threat determination by the FSOC, the Federal Reserve must issue rules that 
require financial institutions subject to the systemic-risk regime to maintain a debt-to-equity ratio of no more than 15 
to 1 if the FSOC considers it necessary to mitigate the risk.  The Federal Reserve also has the ability to establish 

further standards, including those regarding contingent capital, enhanced public disclosures, and limits on short-
term debt, including off-balance sheet exposures.
Resolution PlanningAs required by the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC and the Federal Reserve jointly issued a final rule pursuant to 
which we are required to submit annually to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a plan for our rapid and orderly 
resolution under the Bankruptcy Code (or other specifically applicable insolvency regime) in the event of material 
financial distress or failure, referred to as a ﬁresolution plan.ﬂ  The FDIC also issued a final rule pursuant to which 

State Street Bank is required to submit annually to the FDIC a plan for resolution in the event of its failure.  We and 

State Street Bank submitted our most recent annual resolution plans to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC on 
October 1, 2013.Orderly Liquidation Authority
Under the Dodd-Frank Act, certain financial companies, including bank holding companies such as State 
Street, and certain covered subsidiaries, can be subjected to a new orderly liquidation authority.  The U.S. Treasury 

Secretary, in consultation with the President, must first make certain extraordinary financial distress and systemic 

risk determinations, and action must be recommended by two-thirds of the FDIC Board and two-thirds of the 
Federal Reserve Board.  Absent such actions, we, as a bank holding company, would remain subject to the U.S. 

Bankruptcy Code. The orderly liquidation authority went into effect in July 2010, and rulemaking is proceeding in stages, with 
some regulations now finalized and others planned but not yet proposed.  If we were subject to the orderly 
liquidation authority, the FDIC would be appointed as our receiver, which would give the FDIC considerable powers 

to resolve us, including: (1) the power to remove officers and directors responsible for our failure and to appoint new 

directors and officers; (2) the power to assign assets and liabilities to a third party or bridge financial company 

without the need for creditor consent or prior court review; (3) the ability to differentiate among creditors, including 

by treating junior creditors better than senior creditors, subject to a minimum recovery right to receive at least what 
they would have received in bankruptcy liquidation; and (4) broad powers to administer the claims process to 
determine distributions from the assets of the receivership to creditors not transferred to a third party or bridge 
financial institution.  In December 2013, the FDIC released its proposed single-point-of-entry strategy for resolution of a SIFI under the orderly liquidation authority. The FDIC™s release outlines how it would use its powers under the orderly 

liquidation authority to resolve a SIFI by placing its top-tier U.S. holding company in receivership and keeping its 
operating subsidiaries open and out of insolvency proceedings by transferring the operating subsidiaries to a new 
bridge holding company, recapitalizing the operating subsidiaries and imposing losses on the shareholders and 

creditors of the holding company in receivership according to their statutory order of priority.
DerivativesTitle VII of the Dodd-Frank Act imposes a new regulatory structure on the over-the-counter derivatives market, 
including requirements for clearing, exchange trading, capital, margin, reporting and record-keeping.  In addition, 
certain swaps and other derivatives activities are required to be ﬁpushed outﬂ of insured depository institutions and 
conducted in separately capitalized non-bank affiliates.  Title VII also requires certain persons to register as a ﬁmajor 

swap participantﬂ or a ﬁswap dealer.ﬂ  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, or CFTC, the SEC and other 

U.S. regulators have adopted and are still in the process of adopting regulations to implement Title VII.  Through this 

rulemaking process, the CFTC has established, among other things, reporting and record-keeping obligations, 
margin and capital requirements, the scope of registration requirements, and what swaps are required to be 13centrally cleared and exchange-traded.  The CFTC has also issued rules to enhance the oversight of clearing and 
trading entities.  The SEC is in the process of proposing and finalizing similar regulations. 
State Street Bank has registered provisionally with the CFTC as a swap dealer.  As a provisionally-registered 
swap dealer, State Street Bank is subject to significant regulatory obligations regarding its swap activity and the 

supervision, examination and enforcement powers of the CFTC and other regulators.  In December 2013, the CFTC 
granted State Street Bank a limited-purpose swap dealer designation.  Under this limited-purpose designation, 
interest-rate swap activity engaged in by State Street Bank™s Global Treasury group is not subject to certain of the 

swap regulatory requirements otherwise applicable to swaps entered into by a registered swap dealer, subject to a 

number of conditions.  For all other swap transactions, our swap activities remain subject to all applicable swap 
dealer regulations.Money Market FundsIn 2012, the FSOC proposed several recommendations for money market mutual fund reform, which included requiring money market funds to use a floating net asset value, mandating a capital buffer and requiring a hold-back 

on redemptions for certain shareholders, and the FSB endorsed recommendations proposed by the International 
Organization of Securities Commissions, or IOSCO, including requiring money market funds to adopt a floating net 
asset value.  In June 2013, the SEC proposed U.S. reforms, which would require certain SEC-registered money 
market funds to transact at the floating net asset value or, alternatively, allow such funds to continue to transact at a 

stable share price but impose liquidity fees and investor redemption gates in times of stress.  Reforms proposed by 
the SEC would also create additional disclosure and reporting requirements for the funds.  Money market reforms 
are also being considered in Europe.  The timing and content of final new regulations in the U.S. or Europe remain 

uncertain.  The requirements and standards provided for in any new regulations, including those of the nature 

described in the FSOC or IOSCO recommendations or in the proposed SEC reforms, have the potential to 
significantly alter the business models of money market fund sponsors and asset managers, including many of our 
servicing clients and SSgA, and may result in reduced levels of investment in money market funds.  These effects 

could have adverse impacts on our business, our operations or our consolidated results of operations.SubsidiariesThe Federal Reserve is the primary federal banking agency responsible for regulating us and our subsidiaries, including State Street Bank, with respect to both our U.S. and non-U.S. operations.Our banking subsidiaries are subject to supervision and examination by various regulatory authorities.  State Street Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System, its deposits are insured by the FDIC and it is subject to 
applicable federal and state banking laws and to supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve, as well as by 
the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks, the FDIC, and the regulatory authorities of those states and countries 
in which State Street Bank operates a branch.  Our other subsidiary trust companies are subject to supervision and 
examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Reserve or by the appropriate state 

banking regulatory authorities of the states in which they are organized and operate.  Our non-U.S. banking 
subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the regulatory authorities of the countries in which they operate.  As of 

December 31, 2013, the capital of each of these banking subsidiaries exceeded the minimum legal capital 
requirements set by those regulatory authorities.We and our subsidiaries that are not subsidiaries of State Street Bank are affiliates of State Street Bank under 
federal banking laws, which impose restrictions on various types of transactions, including loans, extensions of 
credit, investments or asset purchases by or from State Street Bank, on the one hand, to us and those of our 
subsidiaries, on the other.  Transactions of this kind between State Street Bank and its affiliates are limited with 

respect to each affiliate to 10% of State Street Bank™s capital and surplus, as defined by the aforementioned 

banking laws, and to 20% in the aggregate for all affiliates, and in some cases are also subject to strict collateral 

requirements.  Under the Dodd-Frank Act, effective in July 2012, derivatives, securities borrowing and securities 

lending transactions between State Street Bank and its affiliates became subject to these restrictions. The Dodd-

Frank Act also expanded the scope of transactions required to be collateralized.  In addition, the Volcker rule 

generally prohibits similar transactions between the parent company or any of its affiliates and ﬁcovered fundsﬂ for 

which we or any of our affiliates serve as the investment manager, investment adviser, commodity trading advisor or 

sponsor and other ﬁcovered fundsﬂ organized and offered pursuant to specific exemptions in the final Volcker rule 

regulations.  Federal law also requires that certain transactions with affiliates be on terms and under circumstances, 
including credit standards, that are substantially the same, or at least as favorable to the institution, as those 
prevailing at the time for comparable transactions involving other non-affiliated companies.  Alternatively, in the 
14absence of comparable transactions, the transactions must be on terms and under circumstances, including credit standards, that in good faith would be offered to, or would apply to, non-affiliated companies.  State Street Bank is 

also prohibited from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements in connection with any extension of credit or lease or 
sale of property or furnishing of services.  Federal law provides as well for a depositor preference on amounts 
realized from the liquidation or other resolution of any depository institution insured by the FDIC.SSgA Funds Management, Inc., or SSgA FM, and State Street Global Advisors Limited, or SSgA Ltd., act as 
investment advisers to investment companies registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940.  SSgA FM, 

incorporated in Massachusetts in 2001 and headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts, is registered with the SEC as 
an investment adviser under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940.  SSgA Ltd., incorporated in 1990 as a U.K. limited 

company and domiciled in the U.K., is also registered with the SEC as an investment adviser under the Investment 
Advisers Act of 1940.  SSgA Ltd. is also authorized and regulated by the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority, or FCA, 

and is an investment firm under the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive.  SSgA FM and SSgA Ltd. each offer 

a variety of asset management solutions, including active, enhanced and passive equity, active and passive fixed-

income, cash management, multi-asset class solutions and real estate.  In addition, a major portion of our 
investment management activities are conducted by State Street Bank, which is subject to supervision primarily by 
the Federal Reserve with respect to these activities.Our U.S. broker/dealer subsidiary is registered as a broker/dealer with the SEC, is subject to regulation by the SEC (including the SEC™s net capital rule) and is a member of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, a self-

regulatory organization. The U.K. broker/dealer business operates through our subsidiary, State Street Global 

Markets International Limited, which is registered in the U.K. as a regulated securities broker, is authorized and 

regulated by the FCA and is an investment firm under the Market in Financial Instruments Directive.  It is also a 

member of the London Stock Exchange.  In accordance with the rules of the FCA, the U.K. broker/dealer publishes 
information on its risk management objectives and on policies associated with its regulatory capital requirements 
and resources.  Many aspects of our investment management activities are subject to federal and state laws and 
regulations primarily intended to benefit the investment holder, rather than our shareholders.
Our activities as a futures commission merchant are subject to regulation by the CFTC in the U.S. and various regulatory authorities internationally, as well as the membership requirements of the applicable clearinghouses. 
These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict us from conducting our investment management activities in the event that we 
fail to comply with such laws and regulations, and examination authority.  Our business related to investment 

management and trusteeship of collective trust funds and separate accounts offered to employee benefit plans is 

subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or ERISA, and is regulated by the U.S. Department of 

Labor.
Our businesses, including our investment management and securities and futures businesses, are also regulated extensively by non-U.S. governments, securities exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks 
and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which we maintain an office.  For instance, the FCA, the 

Prudential Regulatory Authority, or PRA, the London Stock Exchange, and the Euronext.Liffe regulate our activities 

in the U.K.; the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority and Deutsche Borse AG regulate our activities in Germany; 

and the Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, the Japanese Securities Dealers Association and several 

Japanese securities and futures exchanges, including the Tokyo Stock Exchange, regulate our activities in Japan.  

We have established policies, procedures, and systems designed to comply with the requirements of these 

organizations.  However, as a global financial services institution, we face complexity and costs related to 

regulation.The majority of our non-U.S. asset servicing operations are conducted pursuant to the Federal Reserve's Regulation K through State Street Bank™s Edge Act subsidiary or through international branches of State Street 

Bank.  An Edge Act corporation is a corporation organized under federal law that conducts foreign business 

activities.  In general, banks may not make investments in their Edge Act corporations (and similar state law 

corporations) that exceed 20% of their capital and surplus, as defined, and the investment of any amount in excess 
of 10% of capital and surplus requires the prior approval of the Federal Reserve. In addition to our non-U.S. operations conducted pursuant to Regulation K, we also make new investments abroad directly (through us or through our non-banking subsidiaries) pursuant to the Federal Reserve's Regulation 
Y, or through international bank branch expansion, which are not subject to the investment limitations applicable to 

Edge Act subsidiaries.
15We and certain of our subsidiaries are subject to the Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, as amended by the USA 
PATRIOT Act of 2001, which contains anti-money laundering, or AML, and financial transparency provisions and 

requires implementation of regulations applicable to financial services companies, including standards for verifying 
client identification and monitoring client transactions and detecting and reporting suspicious activities.  AML laws 

outside the U.S. contain similar requirements.  We have implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that 

are designed to comply with all applicable AML laws and regulations.  Compliance with applicable AML and related 

requirements is a common area of review for financial regulators, and our level of compliance with these 
requirements could result in fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions or difficulties in obtaining approvals, 

restrictions on our business activities or harm to our reputation.We are also subject to the Massachusetts bank holding company statute.  Requirements of the statute include, 
among other things, prior approval by the Massachusetts Board of Bank Incorporation for our acquisition of more 
than 5% of the voting shares of any additional bank and for other forms of bank acquisitions.Deposit InsuranceFDIC-insured depository institutions are required to pay deposit insurance assessments to the FDIC.  The 
Dodd-Frank Act made permanent the general $250,000 deposit insurance limit for insured deposits. 
The FDIC™s Deposit Insurance Fund, or DIF, is funded by assessments on insured depository institutions.  The 
FDIC assesses DIF premiums based on an insured depository institution's average consolidated total assets, less 
the average tangible equity of the insured depository institution during the assessment period.  For larger 
institutions, such as State Street Bank, assessments are determined based on regulatory ratings and forward-
looking financial measures to calculate the assessment rate, which is subject to adjustments by the FDIC, and the 
assessment base.The Dodd-Frank Act also directed the FDIC to determine whether and to what exten
t adjustments to the assessment base are appropriate for ﬁcustody banks.ﬂ  During 2011, the FDIC concluded that certain liquid assets 

could be excluded from the deposit insurance assessment base of custody banks that satisfy specified institutional 
eligibility criteria.  This has the effect of reducing the amount of DIF insurance premiums due from custody banks. 

State Street Bank is a custody bank for this purpose.  The custody bank assessment adjustment may not exceed 

total transaction account deposits identified by the institution as being directly linked to a fiduciary or custody and 
safekeeping asset.Prompt Corrective Action
The FDIC Improvement Act of 1991 requires the appropriate federal banking regulator to take ﬁprompt 
corrective actionﬂ with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy 
standards.  While these regulations apply only to banks, such as State Street Bank, the Federal Reserve is 
authorized to take appropriate action against a parent bank holding company, such as our parent company, based 

on the under-capitalized status of any banking subsidiary.  In certain instances, we would  be required to guarantee 

the performance of the capital restoration plan for our under-capitalized banking subsidiary.
Support of Subsidiary BanksUnder Federal Reserve guidelines, which were codified in the Dodd-Frank Act, a bank holding company such 
as our parent company is required to act as a source of financial and managerial strength to its banking 
subsidiaries.  This requirement means that we are expected to commit resources to State Street Bank and any 

other banking subsidiary in circumstances in which we otherwise might not do so absent such a requirement.  In the 
event of bankruptcy, any commitment by us to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital of a banking 

subsidiary will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and will be entitled to a priority payment.Insolvency of an Insured U.S. Subsidiary Depository InstitutionIf the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an FDIC-insured U.S. subsidiary depository institution, such as State Street Bank, upon its insolvency or certain other events, the FDIC has the ability to transfer any of the 
depository institution™s assets and liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the depository institution™s 

creditors, enforce the terms of the depository institution™s contracts pursuant to their terms or repudiate or disaffirm 

contracts or leases to which the depository institution is a party.  
Additionally, the claims of holders of deposit liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses against 
an insured depository institution would be afforded priority over other general unsecured claims against such an 

institution, including claims of debt holders of the institution and, under current interpretation, depositors in non-U.S. 
offices, in the liquidation or other resolution of such an institution by any receiver.  As a result, such persons would 
16be treated differently from and could receive, if anything, substantially less than the depositors in U.S. offices of the 
depository institution. ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND GOVERNMENT POLICIES
Economic policies of the U.S. government and its agencies influence our operating environment.  Monetary policy conducted by the Federal Reserve directly affects the level of interest rates, which may affect overall credit 

conditions of the economy.  Monetary policy is applied by the Federal Reserve through open market operations in 

U.S. government securities, changes in reserve requirements for depository institutions, and changes in the 
discount rate and availability of borrowing from the Federal Reserve.  Government regulation of banks and bank 
holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors of the banks, rather than for the 
shareholders of the institutions and therefore may, in some cases, be adverse to the interests of those 

shareholders.  We are similarly affected by the economic policies of non-U.S. government agencies, such as the 

European Central Bank, or ECB.STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE BY BANK HOLDING COMPANIES
The following information, included under Items 6, 7 and 8 of this Form 10-K, is incorporated by reference herein:ﬁSelected Financial Dataﬂ table (Item 6) - presents return on average common equity, return on average 
assets, common dividend payout and equity-to-assets ratios.ﬁDistribution of Average Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders™ Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differentialﬂ 
table (Item 8) - presents consolidated average balance sheet amounts, related fully taxable-equivalent interest 
earned and paid, related average yields and rates paid and changes in fully taxable-equivalent interest revenue and 
interest expense for each major category of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities.ﬁInvestment Securitiesﬂ section included in Management's Discussion and Analysis (Item 7) and note 4, 
ﬁInvestment Securities,ﬂ to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - disclose information regarding book 
values, market values, maturities and weighted-average yields of securities (by category). Note 1, ﬁSummary of Significant Accounting Policies - Loans and Leases,ﬂ to the consolidated financial 
statements (Item 8) - discloses our policy for placing loans and leases on non-accrual status.ﬁLoans and Leasesﬂ section included in Management™s Discussion and Analysis (Item 7) and note 5, ﬁLoans 
and Leases,ﬂ to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - discloses distribution of loans, loan maturities and 
sensitivities of loans to changes in interest rates.ﬁLoans and Leasesﬂ and ﬁCross-Border Outstandingsﬂ sections of Management™s Discussion and Analysis 
(Item 7) - discloses information regarding cross-border outstandings and other loan concentrations of State Street.ﬁCredit Risk Managementﬂ section included in Management™s Discussion and Analysis (Item 7) and note 5, 
ﬁLoans and Leases,ﬂ to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - present the allocation of the allowance for 
loan losses, and a description of factors which influenced management™s judgment in determining amounts of 

additions or reductions to the allowance, if any, charged or credited to results of operations.
ﬁDistribution of Average Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders™ Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differentialﬂ 
table (Item 8) - discloses deposit information.Note 9, ﬁShort-Term Borrowings,ﬂ to the consolidated financial statements (Item 8) - discloses information 
regarding short-term borrowings of State Street.ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS
 Forward-Looking StatementsThis Form 10-K, as well as other reports submitted by us under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
registration statements filed by us under the Securities Act of 1933, our annual report to shareholders and other 

public statements we may make, contain statements (including statements in Management's Discussion and 
Analysis included under Item 7 of this Form 10-K) that are considered ﬁforward-looking statementsﬂ within the 
meaning of U.S. securities laws, including statements about industry, regulatory, economic and market trends, 

management's expectations about our financial performance, capital, market growth, acquisitions, joint ventures 
and divestitures, new technologies, services and opportunities and earnings, management's confidence in our 
strategies and other matters that do not relate strictly to historical facts. Terminology such as ﬁplan,ﬂ ﬁexpect,ﬂ 

ﬁintend,ﬂ ﬁforecast,ﬂ ﬁoutlook,ﬂ ﬁbelieve,ﬂ ﬁanticipate,ﬂ ﬁestimate,ﬂ ﬁseek,ﬂ ﬁmay,ﬂ ﬁwill,ﬂ ﬁtrend,ﬂ ﬁtarget,ﬂ ﬁstrategyﬂ and 

ﬁgoal,ﬂ or similar statements or variations of such terms, are intended to identify forward-looking statements, 17although not all forward-looking statements contain such terms.Forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, which change over time, are based on management's expectations and assumptions at the time the statements are made, and are not guarantees of 
future results. Management's expectations and assumptions, and the continued validity of the forward-looking 
statements, are subject to change due to a broad range of factors affecting the national and global economies, the 

equity, debt, currency and other financial markets, as well as factors specific to State Street and its subsidiaries, 

including State Street Bank. Factors that could cause changes in the expectations or assumptions on which 
forward-looking statements are based cannot be foreseen with certainty and include, but are not limited to:Ł the financial strength and continuing viability of the counterparties with which we or our clients do business 
and to which we have investment, credit or financial exposure, including, for example, the direct and indirect 
effects on counterparties of the sovereign-debt risks in the U.S., Europe and other regions;
Ł increases in the volatility of, or declines in the level of, our net interest revenue, changes in the composition 
or valuation of the assets recorded in our consolidated statement of condition (and our ability to measure 
the fair value of investment securities) and the possibility that we may change the manner in which we fund 
those assets;Ł the liquidity of the U.S. and international securities markets, particularly the markets for fixed-income 
securities and inter-bank credits, and the liquidity requirements of our clients; Ł the level and volatility of interest rates and the performance and volatility of securities, credit, currency and 
other markets in the U.S. and internationally;Ł the credit quality, credit-agency ratings and fair values of the securities in our investment securities portfolio, 
a deterioration or downgrade of which could lead to other-than-temporary impairment of the respective 
securities and the recognition of an impairment loss in our consolidated statement of income;Ł our ability to attract deposits and other low-cost, short-term funding, and our ability to deploy deposits in a 
profitable manner consistent with our liquidity requirements and risk profile;Ł the manner and timing with which the Federal Reserve and other U.S. and foreign regulators implement the 
Dodd-Frank Act changes to the Basel III capital framework and European legislation, such as the Alternative 

Investment Fund Managers Directive and Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities 

Directives, with respect to the levels of regulatory capital we must maintain, our credit exposure to third 
parties, margin requirements applicable to derivatives, banking and financial activities and other regulatory 
initiatives in the U.S. and internationally, including regulatory developments that result in changes to our 

structure or operating model, increased costs or other changes to how we provide services;Ł adverse changes in the regulatory capital ratios that we are required or will be required to meet, whether 
arising under the Dodd-Frank Act or the Basel III capital and liquidity standards, or due to changes in 

regulatory positions, practices or regulations in jurisdictions in which we engage in banking activities, 
including changes in internal or external data, formulae, models, assumptions or other advanced systems 
used in the calculation of our capital ratios that cause changes in those ratios as they are measured from 
period to period;Ł increasing requirements to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve or our other regulators for the 
use, allocation or distribution of our capital or other specific capital actions or programs, including 
acquisitions, dividends and equity purchases, without which our growth plans, distributions to shareholders, 
equity purchase programs or other capital initiatives may be restricted;Ł changes in law or regulation, or the enforcement of law or regulation, that may adversely affect our 
business activities or those of our clients or our counterparties, and the products or services that we sell, 
including additional or increased taxes or assessments thereon, capital adequacy requirements, margin 
requirements and changes that expose us to risks related to the adequacy of our controls or compliance 
programs;Ł financial market disruptions or economic recession, whether in the U.S., Europe, Asia or other
 regions;
Ł our ability to promote a strong culture of risk management, operating controls, compliance oversight and 
governance that meet our expectations and those of our clients and our regulators;Ł the results of, and costs associated with, government investigations, litigation and similar claims, disputes, 
or proceedings;Ł delays or difficulties in the execution of our previously announced Business Operations and Information 
Technology Transformation program, which could lead to changes in our estimates of the charges, 

expenses or savings associated with the planned program and may cause volatility of our earnings;18Ł the potential for losses arising from our investments in sponsored investment funds;
Ł the possibility that our clients will incur substantial losses in investment pools for which we act as agent, and 
the possibility of significant reductions in the liquidity or valuation of assets underlying those pools;Ł our ability to anticipate and manage the level and timing of redemptions and withdrawals from our
             collateral pools and other collective investment products;Ł the credit agency ratings of our debt and depository obligations and investor and client perceptions
             of our financial strength;Ł adverse publicity, whether specific to State Street or regarding other industry participants or industry-wide 
factors, or other reputational harm;Ł our ability to control operational risks, data security breach risks and outsourcing risks, and our
ability to protect our intellectual property rights, the possibility of errors in the quantitative models we use to 
manage our business and the possibility that our controls will prove insufficient, fail or be
 circumvented;
Ł dependencies on information technology and our ability to control related risks, including cyber-crime and 
other threats to our information technology infrastructure and systems and their effective operation both 

independently and with external systems, and complexities and costs of protecting the security of our 
systems and data;Ł our ability to grow revenue, control expenses, attract and retain highly skilled people and raise the capital 
necessary to achieve our business goals and comply with regulatory requirements;Ł changes or potential changes to the competitive environment, including changes due to regulatory and 
technological changes, the effects of industry consolidation and perceptions of State Street as a suitable 

service provider or counterparty;Ł changes or potential changes in how and in what amounts clients compensate us for our services, and the 
mix of services provided by us that clients choose;Ł our ability to complete acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures, including the ability to obtain regulatory 
approvals, the ability to arrange financing as required and the ability to satisfy closing conditions;Ł the risks that our acquired businesses and joint ventures will not achieve their anticipated financial and 
operational benefits or will not be integrated successfully, or that the integration will take longer than 

anticipated, that expected synergies will not be achieved or unexpected negative synergies will be 
experienced, that client and deposit retention goals will not be met, that other regulatory or operational 
challenges will be experienced, and that disruptions from the transaction will harm our relationships with our 
clients, our employees or regulators;Ł our ability to recognize emerging needs of our clients and to develop products that are responsive to such 
trends and profitable to us, the performance of and demand for the products and services we offer, and the 

potential for new products and services to impose additional costs on us and expose us to increased 
operational risk;Ł changes in accounting standards and practices; and

Ł changes in tax legislation and in the interpretation of existing tax laws by U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities 
that affect the amount of taxes due.
Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from what is expressed in our forward-looking statements 
and from our historical financial results due to the factors discussed in this section and elsewhere in this Form 10-K 
or disclosed in our other SEC filings. Forward-looking statements should not be relied on as representing our 
expectations or beliefs as of any date subsequent to the time this Form 10-K is filed with the SEC. We undertake no 

obligation to revise our forward-looking statements after the time they are made. The factors discussed above and 

in this section generally are not intended to be a complete summary of all risks and uncertainties that may affect our 

businesses. We cannot anticipate all developments that may adversely affect our consolidated results of operations 

and financial condition.Forward-looking statements should not be viewed as predictions, and should not be the primary basis on which investors evaluate State Street. Any investor in State Street should consider all risks and uncertainties 

disclosed in our SEC filings, including our filings under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, in particular our reports 

on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K, or registration statements filed under the Securities Act of 1933, all of which are 

accessible on the SEC's website at www.sec.gov
 or on the ﬁInvestor Relationsﬂ section of our website at www.statestreet.com
.19Risk FactorsIn the normal course of our business activities, we are exposed to a variety of risks.  The following is a 
discussion of various risk factors applicable to State Street.  Additional information about our risk management 

framework is included under ﬁRisk Managementﬂ in Management™s Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7 

of this Form 10-K.  Additional risks beyond those described in Management's Discussion and Analysis or in the 

following discussion may be inherent in our activities or operations as currently conducted, or as we may conduct 
them in the future, or in the markets in which we operate or may in the future operate.Credit and Counterparty, Liquidity and Market Risks

We assume significant credit risk to counterparties, many of which are major financial institutions. These 
financial institutions and other counterparties may also have substantial financial dependencies with other 
financial institutions and sovereign entities.  This credit exposure and concentration could expose us to 
financial loss.The financial markets are characterized by extensive interdependencies among numerous parties, including banks, central banks, broker/dealers, collective investment funds, insurance companies and other financial 
institutions. Many financial institutions also hold, or are exposed to, loans, sovereign debt, fixed-income securities, 
derivatives, counterparty and other forms of credit risk in amounts that are material to their financial condition. As a 

result of our own business practices and these interdependencies, we and many of our clients have concentrated 
counterparty exposure to other financial institutions, particularly large and complex institutions, and sovereign 
issuers. Although we have procedures for monitoring both individual and aggregate counterparty risk, significant 

individual and aggregate counterparty exposure is inherent in our business, as our focus is on servicing large 
institutional investors.From time to time, we assume concentrated credit risk at the individual obligor, counterparty or group level. 
Such concentrations may be material and can from time to time exceed 10% of our consolidated total shareholders' equity. Our material counterparty exposures change daily, and the counterparties or groups of related counterparties 

to which our risk exposure exceeds 10% of our consolidated total shareholders' equity are also variable during any 
reported period; however, our largest exposures tend to be to other financial institutions. 
Concentration of counterparty exposure presents significant risks to us and to our clients because the failure or perceived weakness of our counterparties (or in some cases of our clients' counterparties) has the potential to 
expose us to risk of financial loss. Changes in market perception of the financial strength of particular financial 
institutions or sovereign issuers can occur rapidly, are often based on a variety of factors and are difficult to predict.
Since mid-2007, the continued instability of the financial markets has resulted in many financial institutions becoming significantly less creditworthy, as reflected in the credit downgrades of numerous large U.S. and non-U.S. 

financial institutions in recent years. Also, credit downgrades to several sovereign issuers (including the U.S., 

Austria, France, Greece, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal and Spain) and other issuers have stressed the perceived 

creditworthiness of financial institutions, many of which invest in, accept collateral in the form of, or value other 
transactions based on the debt or other securities issued by sovereign or other issuers. Further economic, political 
or market turmoil or developments, including with respect to federal budget or federal debt-ceiling concerns in the 
U.S. or the reduction in levels of quantitative easing in the U.S. and other developed countries, may lead to stress 
on sovereign issuers, and increase the potential for sovereign defaults or restructurings, additional credit-rating 
downgrades or the departure of sovereign issuers from common currencies or economic unions. As a result, we 

may be exposed to increased counterparty risks, either resulting from our role as principal or because of 
commitments we make in our capacity as agent for some of our clients.The degree of client demand for short-term credit tends to increase during periods of market turbulence, which may expose us to further counterparty-related risks. For example, investors in collective investment vehicles for 
which we act as custodian may experience significant redemption activity due to adverse market or economic news 
that was unanticipated by the fund's manager. Our relationship with our clients, the nature of the settlement process 

and limitations in our systems may result in the extension of short-term credit in such circumstances. For some 
types of clients, we provide credit to allow them to leverage their portfolios, which may expose us to potential loss if 
the client experiences investment losses or other credit difficulties. 
In addition to our exposure to financial institutions, we are from time to time exposed to concentrated credit risk at the industry or country level, potentially exposing us to a single market or political event or a correlated set of 
events. We are also generally not able to net exposures across counterparties that are affiliated entities and may 

not be able in all circumstances to net exposures to the same legal entity across multiple products. As a 

consequence, we may incur a loss in relation to one entity or product even though our exposure to an entity's 
affiliates or across product types is over-collateralized.  Our use of unaffiliated subcustodians and changing 
20regulatory requirements with respect to our financial exposures in the event those subcustodians are unable to return a client™s assets also expose us to credit exposure to those subcustodians.  Moreover, not all of our 

counterparty exposure is secured, and when our exposure is secured, the realizable value of the collateral may 
have declined by the time we exercise our rights against that collateral. This risk may be particularly acute if we are 

required to sell the collateral into an illiquid or temporarily-impaired market.  On behalf of clients enrolled in our securities lending program, we lend securities to banks, broker/dealers and other institutions. In most circumstances, we indemnify our clients for the fair market value of those securities 
against a failure of the borrower to return such securities. Borrowers are generally required to provide collateral 
equal to a contractually-agreed percentage equal to or in excess of the fair value of the loaned securities. As the fair 

value of the loaned securities changes, additional collateral is provided by the borrower or collateral is returned to 
the borrower.  In addition, our clients often purchase securities or other financial instruments from financial 

counterparties, including broker/dealers, under repurchase arrangements, frequently as a method of reinvesting the 
cash collateral they receive from lending their securities. Under these arrangements, the counterparty is obligated to 
repurchase these securities or financial instruments from the client at the same price (plus an agreed rate of return) 
at some point in the future. The value of the collateral is intended to exceed the counterparty's payment obligation, 

and collateral is adjusted daily to account for shortfall under, or excess over, the agreed-upon collateralization level. 

As with the securities lending program, we agree to indemnify our clients from any loss that would arise on a default 
by the counterparty under these repurchase arrangements if the proceeds from the disposition of the securities or 
other financial assets held as collateral are less than the amount of the repayment obligation by the client's 
counterparty. In such instances of counterparty default, for both securities lending and repurchase agreements,
 we, rather than our client, are exposed to the risks associated with collateral value.We also engage in certain off-balance sheet activities that involve risks. For example, we provide benefit-
responsive contracts, known as wraps, to defined contribution plans that offer a stable value option to their 

participants. During the financial crisis, the book value of obligations under many of these contracts exceeded the 
market value of the underlying portfolio holdings. Concerns regarding the portfolio of investments protected by such 
contracts, or regarding the investment manager overseeing such an investment option, may result in redemption 
demands from stable value products covered by benefit-responsive contracts at a time when the portfolio's market 
value is less than its book value, potentially exposing us to risk of loss. Similarly, we provide credit facilities in 

connection with the remarketing of U.S. municipal obligations, potentially exposing us to credit exposure to the 
municipalities issuing such bonds and to their increased liquidity demands. In the current economic environment, 
where municipal credits are subject to increased investor concern, the risks associated with such businesses 
increase.  Further, our off-balance sheet activities also include our agreement, described above, to indemnify our 

clients for the fair market value of those securities against a failure of the borrower to return such securities. Under evolving regulatory restrictions on credit exposure, which are anticipated to include a broadening of the measure of credit exposure, we may be required to limit our exposures to specific issuers or groups, including 
financial institutions and sovereign issuers, to levels that we may currently exceed. These credit exposure 

restrictions under such evolving regulations may adversely affect our businesses and may require that we modify 

our operating models or the policies and practices we use to manage our consolidated statement of condition.Although our overall business is subject to these interdependencies, several of our business units are particularly sensitive to them, including our Global Treasury group, our currency trading business, our securities 

finance business, and our investment management business. Given the limited number of strong counterparties in 
the current market, we are not able to mitigate all of our and our clients' counterparty credit risk. Our investment securities portfolio, consolidated financial condition and consolidated results of operations could be adversely affected by changes in interest rate, market and credit risks.Our investment securities portfolio represented approximately 48% of our consolidated total assets as of December 31, 2013, and the gross interest revenue associated with our investment portfolio represented 
approximately 22% of our consolidated total gross revenue for the year ended December 31, 2013. As such, our 
consolidated financial condition and results of operations are materially exposed to the risks associated with our 
investment portfolio, including, without limitation, changes in interest rates, credit spreads, credit performance, 
credit ratings, our access to liquidity, foreign exchange markets, mark-to-market valuations, and our ability to 

profitably reinvest repayments of principal with respect to these securities. The low interest-rate environment that 

has persisted since the financial crisis began in mid-2007, and may continue in 2014 and beyond, limits our ability 
to achieve a net interest margin consistent with our historical averages. Our investment securities portfolio represents a greater proportion of our consolidated statement of condition and our loan and lease portfolios represent a smaller proportion (approximately 6% of our consolidated total assets 

as of December 31, 2013), in comparison to many other major financial institutions.  In some respects, the 21accounting and regulatory treatment of our investment securities portfolio may be less favorable to us than a more traditional held-for-investment lending portfolio or a portfolio of U.S. Treasury securities.  For example, under the 

U.S. Basel III final rule issued in July 2013, after-tax changes in the fair value of investment securities classified as 
available for sale will be included in tier 1 capital.  Since loans held for investment are not subject to a fair-value 
accounting framework, changes in the fair value of loans (other than incurred credit losses) are not similarly 
included in the determination of tier 1 capital under the U.S. Basel III final rule. Due to this differing treatment, we 

may experience increased variability in our tier 1 capital relative to other major financial institutions whose loan-and-
lease portfolios represent a larger proportion of their consolidated total assets than ours.Our investment portfolio continues to have significant concentrations in certain classes of securities, including agency and non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities and other 
asset-backed securities, and securities with concentrated exposure to consumers. These classes and types of 

securities experienced significant liquidity, valuation and credit quality deterioration during the financial disruption 

that began in mid-2007. We also hold non-U.S. mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities with exposures to 

European countries, whose sovereign-debt markets have experienced increased stress since 2011 and may 

continue to experience stress in the future. For further information, refer to the risk factor titled ﬁOur businesses have significant European operations, and disruptions in European economies could have a material adverse effect 
on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition.ﬂFurther, we hold a portfolio of U.S. state and municipal bonds. In view of the budget deficits that a number of 
states and municipalities currently face, the risks associated with this portfolio have increased.If market conditions similar to those experienced in 2007 and 2008 were to recur, our investment portfolio 
could experience a decline in liquidity and market value, regardless of our credit view of our portfolio holdings. For 
example, we recorded significant losses not related to credit in connection with the consolidation of our off-balance 

sheet asset-backed commercial paper conduits in 2009 and the repositioning of our investment portfolio in 2010 
with respect to these asset classes. In addition, deterioration in the credit quality of our portfolio holdings could 
result in other-than-temporary impairment. Our investment portfolio is further subject to changes in both U.S. and 
non-U.S. (primarily in Europe) interest rates, and could be negatively affected by a quicker-than-anticipated 

increase in interest rates. In addition, while approximately 89% of the carrying value of the securities in our 
investment portfolio was composed of securities rated ﬁAAAﬂ or ﬁAAﬂ as of December 31, 2013, if a material portion of our investment portfolio were to experience credit-rating declines below investment grade, our capital ratios as 
calculated pursuant to the Basel III regulatory capital and liquidity standards could be adversely affected.  This risk 

is greater with portfolios of investment securities than with loans or holdings of U.S. Treasury securities.
Our business activities expose us to interest-rate risk.In our business activities, we assume interest-rate risk by investing short-term deposits received from our clients in our investment portfolio of longer- and intermediate-term assets. Our net interest revenue is affected by 

the levels of interest rates in global markets, changes in the relationship between short- and long-term interest 
rates, the direction and speed of interest-rate changes, and the asset and liability spreads relative to the currency 
and geographic mix of our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities. Our ability to anticipate these 
changes or to hedge the related on- and off-balance sheet exposures can significantly influence the success of our 

asset-and-liability management activities and the resulting level of our net interest revenue. The impact of changes 

in interest rates will depend on the relative duration and fixed- or floating-rate nature of our assets and liabilities. 
Sustained lower interest rates, a flat or inverted yield curve and narrow interest-rate spreads generally have a 
constraining effect on our net interest revenue.  For additional information about the effects on interest rates on our 

business, refer to ﬁFinancial Condition - Market Risk - Asset-and-Liability Management Activitiesﬂ in Management's 

Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7 of this Form 10-K.
If we are unable to continuously attract deposits and other short-term funding, our consolidated financial condition, including our regulatory capital ratios, our consolidated results of operations and our business 
prospects, could be adversely affected.Liquidity management is critical to the management of our consolidated statement of condition and to our ability to service our client base. We generally use our liquidity to:
Ł extend credit to our clients in connection with our custody business;
Ł meet clients' demands for return of their deposits; and

Ł manage the pool of long- and intermediate-term assets that are included in the investment securities carried 
in our consolidated statement of condition.Because the demand for credit by our clients is difficult to predict and control, and may be at its peak at times 
of disruption in the securities markets, and because the average maturity of our investment securities portfolio is 22longer than the contractual maturity of our client deposit base, we need to continuously attract, and are dependent on access to, various sources of short-term funding. During periods of market uncertainty, the level of client deposits 

held by us has in recent years tended to increase; however, since such deposits are considered to be transitory, we 

have historically deposited so-called excess deposits with U.S. and non-U.S. central banks and in other highly liquid 
but low-yielding instruments. These levels of excess client deposits, as a consequence, have increased our net 

interest revenue but have adversely affected our net interest margin.
In managing our liquidity, our primary source of short-term funding is client deposits, which are predominantly 
transaction-based deposits by institutional investors. Our ability to continue to attract these deposits, and other 
short-term funding sources such as certificates of deposit and commercial paper, is subject to variability based on a 

number of factors, including volume and volatility in the global securities markets, the relative interest rates that we 
are prepared to pay for these deposits and the perception of safety of these deposits or short-term obligations 
relative to alternative short-term investments available to our clients, including the capital markets.In addition, we may be exposed to liquidity or other risks in managing asset pools for third parties that are funded on a short-term basis, or for which the clients participating in these products have a right to the return of 
cash or assets on limited notice. These business activities include, among others, securities finance collateral pools, 

money market and other short-term investment funds and liquidity facilities utilized in connection with municipal 
bond programs. If clients demand a return of their cash or assets, particularly on limited notice, and these 
investment pools do not have the liquidity to support those demands, we could be forced to sell investment 
securities at unfavorable prices, damaging our reputation as an asset manager and potentially exposing us to 
claims related to our management of the pools.The availability and cost of credit in short-term markets are highly dependent on the markets' perception of our liquidity and creditworthiness. Our efforts to monitor and manage our liquidity risk may not be successful or 

sufficient to deal with dramatic or unanticipated changes in the global securities markets or other event-driven 

reductions in liquidity.  As a result of such events, our cost of funds may increase, thereby reducing our net interest 

revenue, or we may need to dispose of a portion of our investment securities portfolio, which, depending on market 
conditions, could result in a loss from such sales of investment securities being recorded in our consolidated 
statement of income.Our business and capital-related activities, including our ability to return capital to shareholders and purchase our capital stock, may be adversely affected by our implementation of the revised regulatory 
capital and liquidity standards that we must meet under Basel III, the Dodd-Frank Act and other regulatory 

initiatives, or in the event our capital plan or post-stress capital ratios are determined to be insufficient as a 
result of regulatory capital stress testing.In July 2013, U.S. banking regulators issued a final rule implementing the Basel III capital standards in the U.S. The U.S. Basel III final rule replaces the existing Basel I- and Basel II-based capital regulations.  As a so-called 

ﬁadvanced approachesﬂ banking organization, we became subject to the U.S. Basel III final rule on January 1, 2014. 
We are currently in the qualification, or parallel run, period that must be completed prior to our full implementation of 

the Basel III advanced approaches capital rules.  During the parallel run period, we must demonstrate to the 
satisfaction of the Federal Reserve that our models, systems and processes for calculating capital comply with the 
qualitative and quantitative requirements in the Basel III advanced approaches capital rules.During or subsequent to this qualification period, the Federal Reserve may determine that we are not in compliance with certain aspects of the advanced approaches capital rules and may require us to take certain 
actions to come into compliance that could adversely affect our business operations, our regulatory capital 

structure, our capital ratios or our financial performance, or otherwise restrict our growth plans or strategies.  In 
addition, banking regulators could change the Basel III capital standards or their interpretations as they apply to us, 
including changes to these standards or interpretations made in regulations implementing provisions of the Dodd-
Frank Act, which could adversely affect us and our ability to comply with the Basel III advanced approaches capital 

rules.On February 21, 2014, we were notified by the Federal Reserve that we have completed our parallel run period and will be required to begin using the advanced approaches framework as provided in the Federal 
Reserve's July 2013 Basel III final rule in the determination of our risk-based capital requirements.  Pursuant to this 
notification, we will use the advanced approaches framework to calculate and publicly disclose our risk-based 
capital ratios beginning with the second quarter of 2014.  Under the July 2013 Basel III final rule, we must meet the 
minimum risk-based capital ratios under both the advanced approaches and generally applicable risk-based capital 
frameworks in Basel III and Basel I, respectively.     
Our current assessment of the implications of the U.S. Basel III final rule indicates a potential impact which could be material to our businesses and our profitability, as well as to our regulatory capital ratios. The U.S. Basel III 
23final rule requires us to apply the ﬁSimplified Supervisory Formula Approach,ﬂ referred to as the SSFA, to determine 
the risk weights of securitization exposures, such as asset-backed securities, carried in our investment securities 
portfolio.  In contrast, the existing capital rules provided for a ratings-based approach under which external credit 
ratings were used to determine the risk weight of securitization exposures.  The Dodd-Frank Act prohibits the use of 

external credit ratings in federal regulations, resulting in the elimination of the ratings-based approach by the U.S. 
Basel III final rule.  Currently, our investment securities portfolio contains significant holdings of mortgage- and 

asset-backed securities that are highly rated by credit rating agencies, for which the SSFA would apply higher 

regulatory risk weights compared to Basel I and Basel II.  At the same time, certain of our securitization exposures 

with lower credit ratings would receive lower regulatory risk weights under the SSFA compared to Basel I and   

Basel II.Based on the composition of our investment portfolio with respect to the types of securities and related external credit ratings as of December 31, 2013, application of the SSFA would materially increase our total risk-

weighted assets relative to those calculated under Basel I and Basel II, and correspondingly decrease our 
regulatory risk-based capital ratios. As a result, we are re-evaluating the composition of our investment portfolio in 

order to maintain an investment strategy appropriately aligned with the capital requirements under Basel III.  This 

re-evaluation could result in the reinvestment of cash flows from our portfolio securities into different types of 

investments, which could materially and adversely affect our consolidated results of operations by reducing our net 

interest revenue and which could increase the amount of credit risk inherent in our consolidated statement of 
condition.There remains considerable uncertainty with respect to multiple provisions of the U.S. Basel III final rule, and the timing and manner in which they will be applied to us.  Models implemented under the U.S. Basel III final rule, 
particularly those implementing the Basel III advanced approaches capital rules, remain subject to regulatory review 
and approval. In addition, the U.S. Basel III final rule contains additional new requirements, such as a 
supplementary leverage ratio, and further capital and liquidity requirements are under consideration by U.S. and 
international banking regulators, such as a liquidity coverage and a net stable funding ratio, each of which has the 
potential to have significant effects on our capital and liquidity planning and activities. 
For example, the specification of the various elements of the U.S. liquidity coverage ratio in the final rule, when adopted, such as the eligibility of assets as high-quality liquid assets, the calculation of net outflows, including the 
treatment of operational deposits, and the timing of indeterminate maturities, could have a material effect on our 

business activities, including the management and composition of our investment securities portfolio and our ability 
to extend committed contingent credit facilities to our clients. The full effects of the Basel III final rule, and of other 

regulatory initiatives related to capital or liquidity, on State Street and State Street Bank are therefore subject to 

further evaluation and also to further regulatory guidance, action or rule-making. In general, as an identified ﬁglobal 
systemically important bank,ﬂ or G-SIB, we generally expect to be held to the most stringent provisions under the 
U.S. Basel capital framework.We are also required by the Federal Reserve to conduct periodic stress testing of our business operations and 
to develop an annual capital plan as part of the Federal Reserve's Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review 

process, which process is used by the Federal Reserve to evaluate our management of capital, the adequacy of our 
regulatory capital and the potential requirement for us to maintain capital levels above regulatory minimums. The 

planned capital actions in our capital plan, including common stock purchases and dividends, may be objected to by 
the Federal Reserve, potentially requiring us to revise our stress-testing or capital management approaches, 
resubmit our capital plan or postpone, cancel or alter our planned capital actions. In addition, changes in our 
business strategy, merger or acquisition activity or unanticipated uses of capital could result in a change in our 

capital plan and its associated capital actions, and may require resubmission of the capital plan to the Federal 
Reserve for approval. We also expect to be subject to asset quality reviews and stress testing by other regulators, 

such as the ECB.Our implementation of the new capital and liquidity requirements, including our capital plan, may not be approved or may be objected to by the Federal Reserve, and the Federal Reserve may impose capital requirements 
in excess of our expectations or require us to maintain levels of liquidity that are higher than we may expect, and 
which may adversely affect our consolidated revenues. In the event that our implementation of new capital and 

liquidity requirements under Basel III, the Dodd-Frank Act or other regulatory initiatives or our current capital 

structure are determined not to conform with current and future capital requirements, our ability to deploy capital in 
the operation of our business or our ability to distribute capital to shareholders or to purchase our capital stock may 
be constrained, and our business may be adversely affected. Likewise, in the event that regulators in other 

jurisdictions in which we have banking subsidiaries determine that our capital or liquidity levels do not conform with 
current and future regulatory requirements, our ability to deploy capital, our levels of liquidity or our business 
operations in those jurisdictions may be adversely affected.
24For additional information about the above matters, refer to ﬁBusiness - Supervision and Regulation - Regulatory Capital Adequacy and Liquidity Standardsﬂ included under Item 1, and ﬁFinancial Condition - Capitalﬂ in 

Management's Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7, of this Form 10-K.
Our businesses have significant European operations, and disruptions in European economies couldhave a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition.Since 2011, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal, Spain and other European economies have experienced, and in 
the future may experience, difficulties in financing their deficits and servicing their outstanding debt. Eurozone 

instability and sovereign debt concerns, and the downgraded credit ratings of associated sovereign debt and 
European financial institutions, have contributed to the volatility in the financial markets. This reduced confidence 

has led to support for Greece, Ireland, Portugal, and Spain by Eurozone countries and the International Monetary 
Fund. The ECB has also purchased European sovereign debt to support these markets and the euro. Numerous 

European governments, notably Italy and Spain, have also adopted austerity and other measures in an attempt to 
contain the spread of sovereign-debt concerns.Disagreement among Eurozone countries remains as to the management of current European sovereign-debt concerns and their impact on European financial institutions. The decline in the market value of sovereign debt, and 

the requirement as part of certain rescue packages for creditors to agree to material restructuring of outstanding 
sovereign debt, have weakened the capital position of many European financial institutions. These institutions have 

been, and may in the future be, required to raise additional capital to improve their capital positions.These political disagreements, along with the interdependencies among European economies and financial institutions and the substantial refinancing requirements of European sovereign issuers, have exacerbated concern 
regarding the stability of the euro, European financial markets generally and certain institutions in particular. Given 

the scope of our European operations, clients and counterparties, disruptions in the European financial markets, the 
failure to resolve fully and contain sovereign-debt concerns, continued recession in significant European 
economies, the attempt of a country to abandon the euro, the failure of a significant European financial institution, 
even if not an immediate counterparty to us, or persistent weakness in the euro, could have a material adverse 
impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition.The conditions since 2007 in the global economy and financial markets have adversely affected us, and they have increased the uncertainty and unpredictability we face in managing our businesses.Our businesses have been significantly affected by global economic conditions since 2007 and their impact on 
financial markets. Global credit and other financial markets have at times suffered from substantial volatility, 

illiquidity and disruption. The resulting economic pressure and lack of confidence in the financial stability of certain 

countries, and in the financial markets generally, have adversely affected our business, as well as the businesses of 

our clients and our significant counterparties. This environment, and the potential for continuing or additional 

disruptions, have also affected overall confidence in financial institutions, have further exacerbated liquidity and 

pricing issues within the fixed-income securities markets, have increased the uncertainty and unpredictability we 
face in managing our businesses, and have had an adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations and 

financial condition.While global economies and financial markets showed some signs of stabilizing during 2013, numerous global financial services firms and the sovereign debt of some nations experienced credit downgrades and recessionary 
issues.  The occurrence of additional disruptions in global markets, continued uncertainty with respect to federal 

budget and federal debt-ceiling concerns in the U.S., continued economic or political uncertainty in Europe, or the 
worsening of economic conditions, could further adversely affect our businesses and the financial services industry 

in general, and also increase the difficulty and unpredictability of aligning our business strategies, our infrastructure 

and our operating costs in light of current and future market and economic conditions.Market disruptions can adversely affect our consolidated results of operations if the value of assets under 
custody, administration or management decline, while the costs of providing the related services remain constant 

due to the high fixed costs associated with this business.  These factors can reduce the profitability of our asset-

based fee revenue and could also adversely affect our transaction-based revenue, such as revenues from securities 

finance and foreign exchange activities, and the volume of transactions that we execute for or with our clients.  
Further, the degree of volatility in foreign exchange rates can affect our foreign exchange trading revenue. In 

general, increased currency volatility tends to increase our market risk but also increases our foreign exchange 
revenue. Conversely, periods of lower currency volatility tend to decrease our market risk but also decrease our 

foreign exchange revenue.In addition, as our business grows globally and as a greater percentage of our revenue is earned in currencies other than U.S. dollars, our exposure to foreign currency volatility could affect our levels of consolidated revenue, 
25our consolidated expenses and our consolidated results of operations, as well as the value of our investment in our non-U.S. operations and our investment portfolio holdings. As our product offerings expand, in part as we seek to 

take advantage of perceived opportunities arising under various regulatory reforms and resulting market changes, 
the degree of our exposure to various market and credit risks will evolve, potentially resulting in greater revenue 
volatility. We also will need to make additional investments to develop the operational infrastructure and to enhance 

our risk management capabilities to support these businesses, which may increase the operating expenses of such 
businesses or, if our risk management resources fail to keep pace with product expansion, result in increased risk of 

loss from such businesses.We may need to raise additional capital in the future, which may not be available to us or may only be 
available on unfavorable terms.We may need to raise additional capital in order to maintain our credit ratings in response to regulatory 
changes, including capital rules, or for other purposes, including financing acquisitions and joint ventures. However, 

our ability to access the capital markets, if needed, will depend on a number of factors, including the state of the 
financial markets. In the event of rising interest rates, disruptions in financial markets, negative perceptions of our 
business or our financial strength, or other factors that would increase our cost of borrowing, we cannot be sure of 
our ability to raise additional capital, if needed, on terms acceptable to us.  Any diminished ability to raise additional 

capital, if needed, could adversely affect our business and our ability to implement our business plan, capital plan 

and strategic goals, including the financing of acquisitions and joint ventures.Any downgrades in our credit ratings, or an actual or perceived reduction in our financial strength, could adversely affect our borrowing costs, capital costs and liquidity and cause reputational harm.Major independent rating agencies publish credit ratings for our debt obligations based on their evaluation of a number of factors, some of which relate to our performance and other corporate developments, including 
financings, acquisitions and joint ventures, and some of which relate to general industry conditions. We anticipate 

that the rating agencies will review our ratings regularly based on our consolidated results of operations and 
developments in our businesses.   One or more of the major independent credit rating agencies have in the recent 
past downgraded, and may in the future downgrade, our credit ratings, or have negatively revised their outlook for 
our credit ratings.  In November 2013, Moody™s Investors Service downgraded the long-term senior and 

subordinated debt ratings for State Street Bank.  The current market environment and our exposure to financial institutions and other counterparties, including sovereign entities, increase the risk that we may not maintain our current ratings, and we cannot provide assurance 
that we will continue to maintain our current credit ratings. Downgrades in our credit ratings may adversely affect 

our borrowing costs, our capital costs and our ability to raise capital and, in turn, our liquidity. A failure to maintain an 

acceptable credit rating may also preclude us from being competitive in certain products.Additionally, our counterparties, as well as our clients, rely on our financial strength and stability and evaluate 
the risks of doing business with us. If we experience diminished financial strength or stability, actual or perceived, 

including the effects of market or regulatory developments, our announced or rumored business developments or 

consolidated results of operations, a decline in our stock price or a reduced credit rating, our counterparties may be 
less willing to enter into transactions, secured or unsecured, with us; our clients may reduce or place limits on the 
level of services we provide them or seek other service providers; or our prospective clients may select other 
service providers,all of which may have other adverse effects on our reputation. 
The risk that we may be perceived as less creditworthy relative to other market participants is higher in the current market environment, in which the consolidation, and in some instances failure, of financial institutions, 
including major global financial institutions, have resulted in a smaller number of much larger counterparties and 
competitors. If our counterparties perceive us to be a less viable counterparty, our ability to enter into financial 

transactions on terms acceptable to us or our clients, on our or our clients' behalf, will be materially compromised. If 
our clients reduce their deposits with us or select other service providers for all or a portion of the services we 
provide to them, our revenues will decrease accordingly.
Operational, Business and Reputational Risks
We face extensive and changing government regulation in the U.S. and in foreign jurisdictions in which we 
operate, which may increase our costs and expose us to risks related to compliance.Most of our businesses are subject to extensive regulation by multiple regulatory bodies, and many of the clients to which we provide services are themselves subject to a broad range of regulatory requirements. These 

regulations may affect the scope of, and the manner and terms of delivery of, our services. As a financial institution 

with substantial international operations, we are subject to extensive regulation and supervisory oversight, both in 
and outside of the U.S.  This regulation and supervisory oversight affects, among other things, the scope of our 
26activities and client services, our capital and organizational structure, our ability to fund the operations of our subsidiaries, our lending practices, our dividend policy, our common stock purchase actions, the manner in which 

we market our services, and our interactions with foreign regulatory agencies and officials. 
Several aspects of the regulatory environment in which we operate, and related risks, are discussed below.  
Additional information is provided in ﬁBusiness - Supervision and Regulationﬂ included under Item 1 of this         
Form 10-K.The Dodd-Frank Act, which became law in July 2010, has had, and will continue to have, a significant impact 
on the regulatory structure of the global financial markets and has imposed, and is expected to continue to impose, 
significant additional costs on us.  While U.S. banking regulators have finalized many regulations to implement 
various provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, they plan to propose or finalize additional implementing regulations in the 

future.  In light of the further rule-making required to fully implement the Dodd-Frank Act, as well as the discretion 

afforded to federal regulators, the full impact of this legislation on us, our business strategies and financial 

performance is not known at this time and may not be known for a number of years.  Several elements of the Dodd-
Frank Act, such as the Volcker rule and enhanced prudential standards for financial institutions designated as 

ﬁsystemically important financial institutions,ﬂ or SIFIs, impose or are expected to impose significant additional 
operational, compliance and risk management costs both in the near-term, as we develop and integrate appropriate 
systems and procedures, and on a recurring basis thereafter, as we monitor, support and refine those systems and 

procedures.  A number of regulations implementing the Dodd-Frank Act that are not yet final are anticipated to be finalized 
in 2014, with compliance dates soon thereafter, and, as a result of and together with regulatory change in Europe, 

the costs and impact on our operations of the post-financial crisis regulatory reform are accelerating.  We may not 

anticipate completely all areas in which the Dodd-Frank Act or other regulatory initiatives could affect our business 

or influence our future activities or the full effects or extent of related operational, compliance, risk management or 

other costs.  The FDIC and the Federal Reserve jointly issued a final rule under the Dodd-Frank Act pursuant to which we 
are required to submit annually to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC a plan, known as a resolution plan, for our 
rapid and orderly resolution under the Bankruptcy Code (or other specifically applicable insolvency regime) in the 
event of material financial distress or failure. The FDIC also issued a final rule pursuant to which State Street Bank 

is required to submit annually to the FDIC a plan for resolution in the event of its failure.  We and State Street Bank 

submitted our most recent annual resolution plan to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC on October 1, 2013. If the 
FDIC and the Federal Reserve should determine that our resolution plan is not credible or would not facilitate an 
orderly resolution under the Bankruptcy Code, we could be subject to more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity 
requirements, restrictions on our growth, activities or operations, or be required to divest certain of our assets or 
operations. Other provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations, such as new rules for swap market 
participants, additional regulation of financial system utilities, the designation of non-bank institutions as SIFIs, and 
further requirements to facilitate orderly liquidation of large institutions, could adversely affect certain of our 

business operations and our competitive position, and could also negatively affect the operational and competitive 

positions of our clients. The final effects of the Dodd-Frank Act on our business will depend largely on the scope and 

timing of the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act by regulatory bodies, which in many cases have been delayed, 

and the exercise of discretion by these regulatory bodies. The breadth of our business activities, together with the scope of our global operations and varying business practices in relevant jurisdictions, increase the complexity and costs of meeting our regulatory compliance 
obligations, including in areas that are receiving significant regulatory scrutiny. We are, therefore, subject to related 

risks of non-compliance, including fines, penalties, lawsuits, regulatory sanctions or difficulties in obtaining 

approvals, limitations on our business activities, or reputational harm, any of which may be significant.  For 
example, the global nature of our client base requires us to comply with complex regulations relating to money 
laundering and anti-terrorist monitoring of our clients.  Regulatory scrutiny of compliance with these and other 
regulations is increasing and our operations are subject to regulations from multiple jurisdictions.  The overall 

evolving regulatory landscape in each jurisdiction in which we operate, including requirements or restrictions on our 
service offerings or opportunities for new service offerings, particularly when applied on a cross-border basis, is not 

necessarily consistent with the requirements or regulatory objectives of other jurisdictions in which we have clients 
or operations.  This evolving regulatory landscape may interfere with our ability to conduct our operations, with our 

pursuit of a common global operating model or with our ability to compete effectively with other financial institutions 

operating in those jurisdictions or which may be subject to different regulatory requirements than apply to us. 
27In particular, non-U.S. regulation and initiatives may be inconsistent or conflict with current or proposed 
regulations in the U.S., which could create increased compliance and other costs that would adversely affect 

business, operations or profitability. Our designation under the Dodd-Frank Act in the U.S. as a SIFI, and our 

identification by the Financial Stability Board as a G-SIB, to which certain regulatory capital surcharges may apply, 

will subject us to incrementally higher capital and prudential requirements, and may result in increased scrutiny of 
our activities and potential further regulatory requirements, than those applicable to some of the financial institutions 
with which we compete as a custodian or asset manager.
We are further affected by other regulatory initiatives, including, but not limited to, the implementation of the 
Basel III capital and liquidity standards, including proposed revisions to the U.S. leverage ratio and Basel III 
supplementary leverage ratio, and the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive, or AIFMD, and the 

European Market Infrastructure Resolution, or EMIR, anticipated revisions to the European collective investment 
fund, or UCITS, directive revisions to the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive and ongoing review of 
European Union data protection regulation. Proposed or potential regulations in the U.S. and Europe with respect to 
money market funds, short-term wholesale funding, such as repurchase agreements or securities lending, or other 
ﬁshadow bankingﬂ activities, could also adversely affect not only our own operations but also the operations of the 

clients to which we provide services.  In Europe, the AIFMD increases the responsibilities and potential liabilities of 

custodians to certain of their clients for asset losses, and proposed revisions to the regulations affecting UCITS are 

anticipated to incorporate similar, potentially more strict, standards.  
EMIR requires the reporting of all derivatives to a trade repository, the mandatory clearing of certain derivatives 
trades via a central counterparty and risk mitigation techniques for derivatives not cleared via a central counterparty.  

EMIR will impact our business activities, and increase costs, in various ways, some of which may be adverse.  
Further, the European Commission's proposal to introduce a proposed financial transaction tax or similar proposals 

elsewhere, if adopted, could materially effect the location and volume of financial transactions or otherwise alter the 

conduct of financial activities, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our business and on our 

consolidated results of operations or financial condition.The Dodd-Frank Act and these other international regulatory changes could limit our ability to pursue certain 
business opportunities, increase our regulatory capital requirements, alter the risk profile of certain of our core 
activities and impose additional costs on us, otherwise adversely affect our business, our consolidated results of 

operations or financial condition and have other negative consequences, including a reduction of our credit ratings. 
Different countries may respond to the market and economic environment in different and potentially conflicting 

manners, which could increase the cost of compliance for us.The evolving regulatory environment, including changes to existing regulations and the introduction of new regulations, may also contribute to decisions we may make to suspend, reduce or withdraw from existing 
businesses, activities or initiatives. In addition to potential lost revenue associated with any such suspensions, 
reductions or withdrawals, any such suspensions, reductions or withdrawals may result in significant restructuring or 
related costs or exposures.If we do not comply with governmental regulations, we may be subject to fines, penalties, lawsuits, delays, or difficulties in obtaining regulatory approvals or restrictions on our business activities or harm to our reputation, which 

may significantly and adversely affect our business operations and, in turn, our consolidated results of operations.  

The willingness of regulatory authorities to impose meaningful sanctions, and the level of fines and penalties 
imposed in connection with regulatory violations, have increased substantially since the financial crisis.  Regulatory 
agencies may, at times, limit our ability to disclose their findings, related actions or remedial measures.  Similarly, 

many of our clients are subject to significant regulatory requirements and retain our services in order for us to assist 
them in complying with those legal requirements. Changes in these regulations can significantly affect the services 

that we are asked to provide, as well as our costs. In addition, adverse publicity and damage to our reputation arising from the failure or perceived failure to comply with legal, regulatory or contractual requirements could affect our ability to attract and retain clients. If we 

cause clients to fail to comply with these regulatory requirements, we may be liable to them for losses and 
expenses that they incur. In recent years, regulatory oversight and enforcement have increased substantially, 

imposing additional costs and increasing the potential risks associated with our operations. If this regulatory trend 
continues, it could adversely affect our operations and, in turn, our consolidated results of operations.
Our calculations of credit, market and operational risk exposures, total risk-weighted assets and capital ratios for regulatory purposes depend on data inputs, formulae, models, correlations, and assumptions that 
are subject to changes over time, which changes, in addition to our consolidated financial results, could 
materially change our risk exposures, our total risk-weighted assets and our capital ratios from period to 
period.28To calculate our credit, market and operational risk exposures, our total risk-weighted assets and our capital 
ratios for regulatory purposes, the Basel III capital and liquidity standards involve the use of current and historical 
data, including our own loss data and claims experience and similar information from other industry participants, 
market volatility measures, interest rates and spreads, asset valuations, credit exposures, and the creditworthiness 
of our counterparties.  These calculations also involve the use of quantitative formulae, statistical models, historical 

correlations and significant assumptions.  We refer to the data, formulae, models, correlations, and assumptions, as 

well as our related internal processes, as our ﬁadvanced systems.ﬂ  While our advanced systems are generally 
quantitative in nature, significant components involve the exercise of judgment by us and by our regulators based, 
among other factors, on our and the financial services industry's evolving experience.  Any of these judgments or 

other elements of our advanced systems may not, individually or collectively, accurately represent or calculate the 

scenarios, circumstances, outputs or other results for which they are designed or intended.  In addition, our advanced systems are subject to update and periodic revalidation in response to changes in our business activities and our historical experiences, forces and events experienced by the market broadly or by 
individual financial institutions, changes in regulations and regulatory interpretations and other factors, and are also 
subject to continuing regulatory review and approval.  For example, a significant operational loss experienced by 
another financial institution, even if we do not experience a related loss, could result in a material change in our 
advanced systems and a corresponding material change in our risk exposures, our total risk-weighted assets and 
our capital ratios compared to prior periods.  Due to the influence of changes in our advanced systems, whether 
resulting from changes in data inputs, regulation or regulatory supervision or interpretation, State Street-specific or 
more general market, or individual financial institution-specific, activities or experiences, or other updates or factors, 
we expect that our advanced systems and our credit, market and operational risk exposures, our total risk-weighted 
assets and our capital ratios calculated under the Basel III capital and liquidity standards will change, and may be 
volatile, over time, and that those latter changes or volatility could be material as calculated and measured from 
period to period.Our businesses may be adversely affected by regulatory enforcement and litigation.In the ordinary course of our business, we are subject to various regulatory, governmental and law 
enforcement inquiries, investigations and subpoenas. These may be directed generally to participants in the 

businesses in which we are involved or may be specifically directed at us. In regulatory enforcement matters, claims 
for disgorgement, the imposition of penalties and the imposition of other remedial sanctions are possible.From time to time, our clients, or the government on their or its own behalf, make claims and take legal action relating to, among other things, our performance of our fiduciary or contractual responsibilities. In any such claims 
or actions, demands for substantial monetary damages may be asserted against us and may result in financial 
liability or an adverse effect on our reputation or on client demand for our products and services.  In regulatory 

settlements since the financial crisis, the fines imposed by regulators have increased substantially and may exceed 
in some cases the profit earned or harm caused by the regulatory or other breach. We are currently subject to both 

regulatory inquiries and civil litigation with respect to the provision of foreign exchange execution services to 
institutional investors that are also custody clients. These regulatory matters and litigation have the potential to have 

a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations for the period in which the relevant matter is 

resolved or an accrual is determined to be required, on our consolidated financial condition or on our reputation. The potential exposure from such matters, if any, is difficult to estimate because the basis on which some 
claims may be brought remains uncertain or the legal theories being applied are untested in the courts.  For 
additional information concerning these matters, refer to the risk factor titled ﬁWe face litigation and governmental 
and client inquiries in connection with our execution of indirect foreign exchange trades with custody clients; these 
issues have adversely affected our revenue from such trading and may cause our revenue from such trading to 
decline in the future.ﬂIn many cases, we are required to self-report inappropriate or non-compliant conduct to the authorities, and our failure to do so may represent an independent regulatory violation.  Even when we promptly bring the matter to 
the attention of the appropriate authorities, we may nonetheless experience regulatory fines, liabilities to clients, 
harm to our reputation or other adverse effects in connection with self-reported matters.
Further, we may become subject to regulatory scrutiny, inquiries or investigations associated with broad, 
industry-wide concerns, and potentially client-related inquiries or claims, whether or not we engaged in the relevant 
activities, and could experience associated increased costs or harm to our reputation. For example, we are a major 
foreign exchange dealer and also publish a commonly used foreign exchange benchmark. Many participants in the 
foreign exchange industry are presently experiencing increased regulatory scrutiny concerning alleged potential 
manipulation in foreign exchange markets, particularly with respect to published benchmarks.  This industry scrutiny 

may result in the assertion of claims against us, regulatory actions or investigations or increased regulation, which 29may decrease the volume and profitability of our foreign exchange trading activities.  Our revenue worldwide from direct foreign exchange sales and trading services totaled $304 million in 2013, $263 million in 2012 and $352 
million in 2011.  
  In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of legal and regulatory matters, we cannot provide 
assurance as to the outcome of any pending or potential matter or, if determined adversely against us, the costs 

associated with any such matter, particularly where the claimant seeks very large or indeterminate damages or 

where the matter presents novel legal theories, involves a large number of parties or is at a preliminary stage.  We 

may be unable to accurately estimate our exposure to litigation risk when we record balance sheet reserves for 
probable and estimable loss contingencies.  As a result, any reserves we establish to cover any settlements, 

judgments or regulatory fines may not be sufficient to cover our actual financial exposure.  The resolution of certain 

pending or potential legal or regulatory matters could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of 

operations for the period in which the relevant matter is resolved or an accrual is determined to be required, on our 
consolidated financial condition or on our reputation.We face litigation and governmental and client inquiries in connection with our execution of indirect foreign 
exchange trades with custody clients; these issues have adversely affected our revenue from such trading 
and may cause our revenue from such trading to decline in the future.Our custody clients are not required to execute foreign exchange transactions with us.  To the extent they 
execute foreign exchange trades with us, they generally execute a greater volume using our direct methods of 
execution at negotiated rates or spreads than they execute using our ﬁindirectﬂ methods at rates we establish.  
Where our clients or their investment managers choose to use our indirect foreign exchange execution methods, 
generally they elect that service for trades of smaller size or for currencies where regulatory or operational 
requirements cause trading in such currencies to present greater operational risk and costs for them.  Given the 
nature of these trades and other features of our indirect foreign exchange service, we generally charge higher rates 
for indirect execution than we charge for other trades, including trades in the interbank currency market.  In October 2009, the Attorney General of the State of California commenced an action under the California 
False Claims Act and California Business and Professional Code related to services State Street provides to certain 

California state pension plans. The California Attorney General asserts that the pricing of certain foreign exchange 

transactions for these pension plans was governed by the custody contracts for these plans and that our pricing 
was not consistent with the terms of those contracts and related disclosures to the plans, and that, as a result, State 
Street made false claims and engaged in unfair competition. The Attorney General asserts actual damages of 

approximately $100 million for periods from 2001 to 2009 and seeks additional penalties, including treble damages. 
This action is in the discovery phase.We provide custody and principal foreign exchange services to government pension plans in other 
jurisdictions. Since the commencement of the litigation in California, attorneys general and other governmental 
authorities from a number of jurisdictions, as well as U.S. Attorney's offices, the U.S. Department of Labor and the 

U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, have requested information or issued subpoenas in connection with 
inquiries into the pricing of our foreign exchange services. We continue to respond to such inquiries and subpoenas.  

Given that many of these inquiries are ongoing, we can provide no assurance that litigation or regulatory 
proceedings will not be brought against us or as to the nature of the claims that might be alleged. Such litigation or 
proceedings may be brought on theories similar to those advanced in California or Washington or on alternative 

theories of liability.
We offer indirect foreign exchange services such as those we offer to the California pension plans to a broad 
range of custody clients in the U.S. and internationally. We have responded and are responding to information 

requests from a number of clients concerning our indirect foreign exchange rates. In February 2011, a putative class 

action was filed in federal court in Boston seeking unspecified damages, including treble damages, on behalf of all 
custodial clients that executed certain foreign exchange transactions with State Street from 1998 to 2009. The 

putative class action alleges, among other things, that the rates at which State Street executed foreign currency 
trades constituted an unfair and deceptive practice under Massachusetts law and a breach of the duty of loyalty. 

Two other putative class actions are currently pending in federal court in Boston alleging various violations of ERISA 

on behalf of all ERISA plans custodied with us that executed indirect foreign exchange transactions with State 

Street from 1998 onward. The complaints allege that State Street caused class members to pay unfair and 

unreasonable rates for indirect foreign exchange transactions with State Street. The complaints seek unspecified 

damages, disgorgement of profits, and other equitable relief.We cannot provide any assurance as to the outcome of the pending proceedings, or whether other 
proceedings might be commenced against us by clients or government authorities. For example, the New York 

Attorney General and the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, each of which has brought 
30indirect foreign exchange-related legal proceedings against one of our competitors, have made inquiries to us about our indirect foreign exchange execution methods. We expect that plaintiffs will seek to recover their share of all or a 

portion of the revenue that we have recorded from providing indirect foreign exchange services. The following table summarizes our estimated total revenue worldwide from indirect foreign exchange trading services for the years ended December 31:(In millions)201320122011201020092008
Revenue from indirect foreign exchangetrading$285
$248$331$336$369$462
We believe that the amount of our revenue from such services has been of a similar or lesser order of 
magnitude for many years prior to 2008. Our revenue calculations related to indirect foreign exchange services 
reflect a judgment concerning the relationship between the rates we charge for indirect foreign exchange execution 
and indicative interbank market rates near in time to execution. Our revenue from foreign exchange trading 
generally depends on the difference between the rates we set for indirect trades and indicative interbank market 

rates on the date trades settle.We cannot predict the outcome of any pending matters or whether a court, in the event of an adverse 
resolution, would consider our revenue to be the appropriate measure of damages. The resolution of pending 

matters or the resolution of any that may be initiated, filed or threatened could have a material adverse effect on our 

consolidated results of operations, our consolidated financial condition and our reputation. The heightened regulatory and media scrutiny on indirect foreign exchange services has resulted in pressure on our pricing of these services, and clients have reduced the volume of trades executed through these services, 
each of which has had and is anticipated to continue to have an adverse impact on our revenue from, and the 
profitability of, these services. Some custody clients or their investment managers have elected to change the 
manner in which they execute foreign exchange with us or have decided not to use our foreign exchange execution 
methods.  We do not expect the market, regulatory and other pressures on our indirect foreign exchange services to 

decrease in 2014. We intend to continue to offer our custody clients a range of execution options for their foreign 

exchange needs; however, the range of services, costs and profitability vary by service options.  We cannot provide 

assurance that clients or investment managers who choose to use less or none of our indirect foreign exchange 
services, or to use alternatives to our existing indirect foreign exchange services, will choose the alternatives offered 

by us. Accordingly, our revenue earned from providing these services may decline further.
We may not be successful in implementing our announced multi-year program to transform our operating 
model or our other strategic initiatives.In order to maintain and grow our business, we must continuously make strategic decisions about our current and future business plans, including plans to target cost initiatives and enhance operational efficiencies, our plans 

for entering or exiting business lines or geographic markets, our plans for acquiring or disposing of businesses and 
our plans to build new systems and other infrastructure, to engage third-party service providers and to address 
staffing needs. In late 2010, we announced a multi-year program to enhance service excellence and innovation, 

increase efficiencies and position us for accelerated growth. We continued our implementation of this program 

during 2013, and it is targeted for completion at the end of 2014.Operating model transformations, including this program, entail significant risks. The program, and any future 
strategic or business plan we implement, may prove to be inadequate for the achievement of the stated objectives, 
may result in increased or unanticipated costs or risks, may result in earnings volatility, may take longer than 

anticipated to implement, may involve elements reliant on the performance of third parties and may not be 
successfully implemented. In particular, elements of the program include investment in new technologies, such as private processing 
clouds, to increase global computing capabilities, and also the development of new, and the evolution of existing, 

methods and tools to accelerate the pace of innovation, the introduction of new services and solutions, the use of 
service providers associated with components of our technology infrastructure and application maintenance and 
support, and the enhancement of the security of our systems. The transition to new operating models and 

technology infrastructure may cause disruptions in our relationships with clients, employees and vendors and may 
present other unanticipated technical, operational or other hurdles.The success of the program and our other strategic plans could also be affected by market disruptions and 
unanticipated changes in the overall market for financial services and the global economy. We also may not be able 

to abandon or alter these plans without significant loss, as the implementation of our decisions may involve 
significant capital outlays, often far in advance of when we expect to generate any related revenues or cost 31expectations.  Accordingly, our business, our consolidated results of operations and our consolidated financial 
condition may be adversely affected by any failure or delay in our strategic decisions, including the program or 

elements thereof.  For additional information about the program, see ﬁConsolidated Results of Operations - 
Expensesﬂ in Management's Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7 of this Form 10-K.
We may incur losses arising from our investments in sponsored investment funds, which could be material 
to our consolidated results of operations in the periods incurred.In the normal course of business, we manage various types of sponsored investment funds through SSgA.  The services we provide to these sponsored investment funds generate management fee revenue, as well as 
servicing fees from our other businesses.  From time to time, we may invest cash in the funds, which we refer to as 
seed capital, in order for the funds to establish a performance history for newly launched strategies.  These funds 

may meet the definition of variable interest entities, as defined by GAAP, and if we are deemed to be the primary 

beneficiary of these funds, we include them in our consolidated financial statements.  The funds follow specialized 

investment company accounting rules which prescribe fair value for the underlying investment securities held by the 
funds.  In the aggregate, we expect any financial losses that we realize over time from these seed investments to be limited to the actual fair value of the amount invested in the consolidated fund, which is based on the fair value of 
the underling investment securities held by the funds.  However, in the event of a fund wind-down, gross gains and 

losses of the fund may be recognized for financial accounting purposes in different periods during the time the fund 

is consolidated but not wholly owned.  Although we expect the actual economic loss to be limited to the amount 

invested, our losses in any period for financial accounting purposes could exceed the value of our economic 
interests in the fund and could exceed the value of our initial seed capital investment.  The net assets of any consolidated fund are solely available to settle the liabilities of the fund and to settle any investors™ ownership redemption requests, including any seed capital invested in the fund by State Street. We are 

not contractually required to provide financial or any other support to any of our sponsored investment funds and 
are subject to regulators that prohibit or limit our ability to do so.  In addition, neither creditors nor equity investors in 
the sponsored investment funds have any recourse to State Street™s general credit.
In instances where we are not deemed to be the primary beneficiary of the sponsored investment fund, we do not include the funds in our consolidated financial statements.  Our risk of loss associated with these 
unconsolidated funds primarily represents our seed capital investment, which could become realized as a result of 
poor investment performance.  However, the amount of loss we may recognize during any period would be limited 

to the carrying amount of our investment.Our reputation and business prospects may be damaged if our clients incur substantial losses in investment pools in which we act as agent or are restricted in redeeming their interests in these investment 
pools.We manage assets on behalf of clients in several forms, including in collective investment pools, money 
market funds, securities finance collateral pools, cash collateral and other cash products and short-term investment 
funds. In addition to the impact on the market value of client portfolios, at various times since 2007, the illiquidity 
and volatility of both the global fixed-income and equity markets have negatively affected the investment 

performance of certain of our products and our ability to manage client inflows and outflows from our pooled 
investment vehicles. Our management of collective investment pools on behalf of clients exposes us to reputational risk and, in some cases, operational losses. If our clients incur substantial losses in these pools, particularly in money market 
funds (where there is a general market expectation that net asset value will not drop below $1.00 per share) or 
other constant-net-asset-value products, receive redemptions as in-kind distributions rather than in cash, or 
experience significant under-performance relative to the market or our competitors' products, our reputation could 
be significantly harmed, which harm could significantly and adversely affect the prospects of our associated 

business units. Because we often implement investment and operational decisions and actions over multiple 
investment pools to achieve scale, we face the risk that losses, even small losses, may have a significant effect in 

the aggregate.Within our asset management business, we manage investment pools, such as mutual funds and collective investment funds, that generally offer our clients the ability to withdraw their investments on short notice, generally 

daily or monthly. This feature requires that we manage those pools in a manner that takes into account both 

maximizing the long-term return on the investment pool and retaining sufficient liquidity to meet reasonably 

anticipated liquidity requirements of our clients.  The importance of maintaining liquidity varies by product type, but it 
32is a particularly important feature in money market funds and other products designed to maintain a constant net asset value of $1.00.During the market disruption that accelerated following the bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers, the liquidity in many asset classes, particularly short- and long-term fixed-income securities, declined dramatically, and providing 

liquidity to meet all client demands in these investment pools without adversely affecting the return to non-

withdrawing clients became more difficult. For clients that have invested directly or indirectly in certain of the 

collateral pools and have sought to terminate their participation in lending programs, we have required, in 
accordance with the applicable client arrangements, that these withdrawals from the collateral pools take the form 
of partial in-kind distributions of securities. In the case of SSgA funds that engage in securities lending, we 

implemented limitations, which were terminated in 2010, on the portion of an investor's interest in such fund that 
may be withdrawn during any month.If higher than normal demands for liquidity from our clients were to return to post-Lehman-Brothers-bankruptcy levels or increase, managing the liquidity requirements of our collective investment pools could become more 
difficult. If such liquidity problems were to recur, our relationships with our clients may be adversely affected, and, 

we could, in certain circumstances, be required to consolidate the investment pools into our consolidated statement 
of condition; levels of redemption activity could increase; and our consolidated results of operations and business 
prospects could be adversely affected.  In addition, if a money market fund that we manage were to have 

unexpected liquidity demands from investors in the fund that exceeded available liquidity, the fund could be required 

to sell assets to meet those redemption requirements, and selling the assets held by the fund at a reasonable price, 
if at all, may then be difficult.
In 2008, we imposed restrictions on cash redemptions from the agency lending collateral pools, as the per-unit market value of those funds' assets had declined below the constant $1.00 the funds employ to effect purchase and 

redemption transactions. Both the decline of the funds' net asset value below $1.00 and the imposition of 
restrictions on redemptions had a significant client, reputational and regulatory impact on us, and the recurrence of 
such or similar circumstances in the future could adversely impact our consolidated results of operations and 
financial condition.  In December 2010, in order to increase participants' control over the degree of their participation in the lending program, we divided certain agency lending collateral pools into liquidity pools, from which clients could obtain cash 
redemptions, and duration pools, which are restricted and operate as liquidating accounts.  We believe that our 

practice of effecting purchases and redemptions of units of the collateral pools, and other constant-net-asset-value 

products, at $1.00 per unit, notwithstanding that the underlying portfolios have a market value of less than $1.00 per 
unit, complied and continue to comply with the terms of our unregistered cash collateral pools and was in the best 
interests of participants in the agency lending program. Participants in the agency lending program who received units of the duration pool, or who previously received in-kind redemptions from the agency lending collateral pools, could seek to assert claims against us in connection 
with either their loss of liquidity or unrealized mark-to-market losses. If such claims were successfully asserted, such 
a resolution could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations in future periods.
While it is currently not our intention, and we do not have contractual or other obligations to do so, we have in the past guaranteed, and may in the future guarantee, liquidity to investors desiring to make withdrawals from a 
fund or otherwise take actions to mitigate the impact of market conditions on our clients and if permitted by 
applicable laws.  Making a significant amount of such guarantees could adversely affect our own consolidated 

liquidity and financial condition.  Because of the size of the investment pools that we manage, we may not have the 
financial ability or regulatory authority to support the liquidity or other demands of our clients. The extreme volatility 

in the equity markets has led to the potential for the return on passive and quantitative products to deviate from their 
target returns. Any decision by us to provide financial support to an investment pool to support our reputation in circumstances where we are not statutorily or contractually obligated to do so could result in the recognition of 
significant losses, could adversely affect the regulatory view of our capital levels or plans and could, in certain 

situations, require us to consolidate the investment pools into our consolidated statement of condition. Any failure of 

the pools to meet redemption requests, or under-performance of our pools relative to similar products offered by our 

competitors, could harm our business and our reputation.  The potential reputational impact from any decision to support or not to support a fund, and from restrictions on redemptions, is most acute in connection with money market funds and other cash products that employ a constant 
net asset value of $1.00 for purposes of effecting subscriptions and redemptions.  The continued use of constant-

net-asset-value funds, such as money market funds, or the imposition of further conditions on the offering of such 

funds, is currently under active consideration in both the U.S. and Europe.  The adoption of certain of the proposals 
33under discussion could expose us to increased risk of loss or could make such products less attractive, potentially affecting our revenue from cash pools that we manage or service.
Our businesses may be negatively affected by adverse publicity or other reputational harm.Our relationship with many of our clients is predicated on our reputation as a fiduciary and a service provider that adheres to the highest standards of ethics, service quality and regulatory compliance.  Adverse publicity, 

regulatory actions or fines, litigation, operational failures, the failure to meet client expectations or fiduciary or other 
obligations could materially and adversely affect our reputation, our ability to attract and retain clients or our sources 

of funding for the same or other businesses. For example, as discussed earlier in this ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ section, we 
have experienced adverse publicity with respect to our indirect foreign exchange services, and this adverse publicity 
has contributed to a shift of client volume to other foreign exchange execution methods.  Similarly, as discussed 

earlier in this ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ section, regulatory and reputational issues in our transition management business in 
the U.K. in 2010 and 2011 adversely affected our revenue from that business in 2012 and 2013.  Preserving and 

enhancing our reputation also depends on maintaining systems, procedures and controls that address known risks 
and regulatory requirements, as well as our ability to identify and mitigate additional risks that arise due to changes 
in our businesses and the marketplaces in which we operate, the regulatory environment and client expectations.Our controls and procedures may fail or be circumvented, our risk management policies and procedures may be inadequate, and operational risk could adversely affect our consolidated results of operations.We may fail to identify and manage risks related to a variety of aspects of our business, including, but not 
limited to, operational risk, interest-rate risk, foreign exchange risk, trading risk, fiduciary risk, legal and compliance 
risk, liquidity risk and credit risk. We have adopted various controls, procedures, policies and systems to monitor 

and manage risk. While we currently believe that our risk management process is effective, we cannot provide 

assurance that those controls, procedures, policies and systems will always be adequate to identify and manage 
the internal and external, including service provider, risks in our various businesses. Risks that individuals, either 

employees or contractors, consciously circumvent established control mechanisms to, for example, exceed trading 
or investment management limitations, or commit fraud, are particularly challenging to manage through a control 
framework. The financial and reputational impact of control failures can be significant. Persistent or repeated issues 

with respect to controls may raise concerns among regulators regarding our culture, governance and control 
environment.  While we seek to contractually limit our financial exposure to operational risk, the degree of protection 
that we are able to achieve varies, and our potential exposure may be greater than the revenue we anticipate that 
we will earn from the client relationship.  In addition, our businesses and the markets in which we operate are continuously evolving. We may fail to fully 
understand the implications of changes in our businesses or the financial markets and fail to adequately or timely 
enhance our risk framework to address those changes. If our risk framework is ineffective, either because it fails to 

keep pace with changes in the financial markets, regulatory requirements, our businesses, our counterparties, 
clients or service providers or for other reasons, we could incur losses, suffer reputational damage or find ourselves 

out of compliance with applicable regulatory or contractual mandates or expectations.Operational risk is inherent in all of our business activities. As a leading provider of services to institutional 
investors, we provide a broad array of services, including research, investment management, trading services and 
investment servicing that expose us to operational risk. In addition, these services generate a broad array of 
complex and specialized servicing, confidentiality and fiduciary requirements, many of which involve the opportunity 
for human, systems or process errors. We face the risk that the control policies, procedures and systems we have 

established to comply with our operational requirements will fail, will be inadequate or will become outdated. We 

also face the potential for loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, employee supervision or 
monitoring mechanisms, service-provider processes or other systems or controls, which could materially affect our 

future consolidated results of operations. Given the volume of transactions we process on a daily basis, operational 
losses represent a potentially significant financial risk for our business.  Operational errors that result in us remitting 
funds to a failing or bankrupt entity may be irreversible, and may subject us to losses.We may also be subject to disruptions from external events that are wholly or partly beyond our control, which 
could cause delays or disruptions to operational functions, including information processing and financial market 
settlement functions. In addition, our clients, vendors and counterparties could suffer from such events. Should 

these events affect us, or the clients, vendors or counterparties with which we conduct business, our consolidated 

results of operations could be negatively affected. When we record balance sheet accruals for probable and 

estimable loss contingencies related to operational losses, we may be unable to accurately estimate our potential 
exposure, and any accruals we establish to cover operational losses may not be sufficient to cover our actual 

financial exposure, which could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations.
34Cost shifting to non-U.S. jurisdictions may expose us to increased operational risk and reputational harm and may not result in expected cost savings.We actively strive to achieve cost savings by shifting certain business processes and business support 
functions to lower-cost geographic locations, such as Poland, India and China. We may accomplish this shift by 

establishing operations in lower-cost locations, by outsourcing to vendors in various jurisdictions or through joint 
ventures. This effort exposes us to the risk that we may not maintain service quality, control or effective 

management within these operations. In addition, we are exposed to the relevant macroeconomic, political and 
similar risks generally involved in doing business in those jurisdictions. The increased elements of risk that arise 

from conducting certain operating processes in some jurisdictions could lead to an increase in reputational risk. 
During periods of transition, greater operational risk and client concern exist with respect to maintaining a high level 
of service delivery. The extent and pace at which we are able to move functions to lower-cost locations may also be 

affected by regulatory and client acceptance issues.  Such relocation of functions also entails costs, such as 

technology and real estate expenses, that may offset or exceed the expected financial benefits of the lower-cost 

locations.  In addition, the financial benefits of lower-cost locations may diminish over time.Development of new products and services may impose additional costs on us and may expose us to increased operational risk.Our financial performance depends, in part, on our ability to develop and market new and innovative services and to adopt or develop new technologies that differentiate our products or provide cost efficiencies, while avoiding 

increased related expenses. The introduction of new products and services can entail significant time and 

resources, including regulatory approvals. Substantial risks and uncertainties are associated with the introduction of 
new products and services, including technical and control requirements that may need to be developed and 
implemented, rapid technological change in the industry, our ability to access technical and other information from 

our clients and the significant and ongoing investments required to bring new products and services to market in a 
timely manner at competitive prices. Regulatory and internal control requirements, capital requirements, competitive 
alternatives, vendor relationships and shifting market preferences may also determine if such initiatives can be 
brought to market in a manner that is timely and attractive to our clients. Failure to successfully manage these risks 
in the development and implementation of new products or services could have a material adverse effect on our 

business and reputation, as well as on our consolidated results of operations and financial condition.We depend on information technology, and any failures of or damage to, attack on or unauthorized access 
to our information technology systems or facilities, or those of third parties with which we do business, 
including as a result of cyber-attacks, could result in significant limits on our ability to conduct our 
operations and activities, costs and reputational damage.Our businesses depend on information technology infrastructure, both internal and external, to, among other things, record and process a large volume of increasingly complex transactions and other data, in many currencies, 
on a daily basis, across numerous and diverse markets and jurisdictions. During 2012 and 2013, several financial 
services firms suffered successful cyber-attacks launched both domestically and from abroad, resulting in the 

disruption of services to clients, loss or misappropriation of sensitive or private data and reputational harm.Our computer, communications, data processing, networks, backup, business continuity or other operating, 
information or technology systems and facilities, including those that we outsource to other providers, may fail to 
operate properly or become disabled, overloaded or damaged as a result of a number of factors, including events 
that are wholly or partially beyond our control, which could adversely affect our ability to process transactions, 

provide services or maintain systems availability, maintain compliance and internal controls or otherwise 

appropriately conduct our business activities. For example, there could be sudden increases in transaction volumes, 
electrical or telecommunications outages, cyber-attacks or employee or contractor error or malfeasance. In addition, 
updates to these systems and facilities often involve implementation, integration and security risks.  The third parties with which we do business or which facilitate our business activities, including financial intermediaries and technology infrastructure and service providers, are also susceptible to the foregoing risks 
(including regarding the third parties with which they are similarly interconnected or on which they otherwise rely), 
and our or their business operations and activities may therefore be adversely affected, perhaps materially, by 

failures, terminations, errors or malfeasance by, or attacks or constraints on, one or more financial, technology or 

infrastructure institutions or intermediaries with whom we or they are interconnected or conduct business.In particular, we, like other financial services firms, will continue to face increasing cyber-security threats, 
including computer viruses, malicious code, distributed denial of service attacks, phishing attacks, information 
security breaches or  employee or contractor error or malfeasance that could result in the unauthorized release, 
gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of our, our clients' or other parties' confidential, proprietary or 

other information or otherwise disrupt, compromise or damage our or our clients' or other parties' business assets, 35operations and activities.  We therefore could experience significant related costs and exposures, including lost or 
constrained ability to provide our services or maintain systems availability to clients, regulatory inquiries, 
enforcements, actions and fines, loss of confidential, personal or proprietary information, litigation, damage to our 
reputation or property and enhanced competition.Any theft, loss or other misappropriation of the confidential information we possess could have an adverse impact on our business and could subject us to regulatory actions, litigation and other adverse effects.Our businesses and relationships with clients are dependent on our ability to maintain the confidentiality of our and our clients' trade secrets and confidential information (including client transactional data and personal data 
about our employees, our clients and our clients' clients). Unauthorized access to such information may occur, 

resulting in its theft, loss or other misappropriation. Any theft, loss or other misappropriation of confidential 

information could have a material adverse impact on our competitive position, our relationships with our clients and 
our reputation and could subject us to regulatory inquiries, enforcement and fines, civil litigation and possible 
financial liability or costs.We may not be able to protect our intellectual property, and we are subject to claims of third-party 
intellectual property rights.Our potential inability to protect our intellectual property and proprietary technology effectively may allow 
competitors to duplicate our technology and products and may adversely affect our ability to compete with them. To 

the extent that we do not protect our intellectual property effectively through patents or other means, other parties, 

including former employees, with knowledge of our intellectual property may leave and seek to exploit our 
intellectual property for their own or others' advantage. In addition, we may infringe on claims of third-party patents, 
and we may face intellectual property challenges from other parties. We may not be successful in defending against 

any such challenges or in obtaining licenses to avoid or resolve any intellectual property disputes. Third-party 

intellectual rights, valid or not, may also impede our deployment of the full scope of our products and service 
capabilities in all jurisdictions in which we operate or market our products and services. The intellectual property of 

an acquired business may be an important component of the value that we agree to pay for such a business. 
However, such acquisitions are subject to the risks that the acquired business may not own the intellectual property 

that we believe we are acquiring, that the intellectual property is dependent on licenses from third parties, that the 
acquired business infringes on the intellectual property rights of others, or that the technology does not have the 
acceptance in the marketplace that we anticipated.Competition for our employees is intense, and we may not be able to attract and retain the highly skilled people we need to support our business.Our success depends, in large part, on our ability to attract and retain key people. Competition for the best people in most activities in which we engage can be intense, and we may not be able to hire people or retain them, 
particularly in light of challenges associated with evolving compensation restrictions applicable, or which may 
become applicable, to banks and some asset managers and that potentially are not applicable to other financial 
services firms in all jurisdictions. The unexpected loss of services of key personnel could have a material adverse 

impact on our business because of their skills, their knowledge of our markets, operations and clients, their years of 
industry experience and, in some cases, the difficulty of promptly finding qualified replacement personnel. Similarly, 

the loss of key employees, either individually or as a group, can adversely affect our clients' perception of our ability 

to continue to manage certain types of investment management mandates or to provide other services to them.We are subject to intense competition in all aspects of our business, which could negatively affect our 
ability to maintain or increase our profitability.
The markets in which we operate across all facets of our business are both highly competitive and global. These markets are changing as a result of new and evolving laws and regulations applicable to financial services 
institutions. Regulatory-driven market changes cannot always be anticipated, and may adversely affect the demand 

for, and profitability of, the products and services that we offer. In addition, new market entrants and competitors 

may address changes in the markets more rapidly than we do, or may provide clients with a more attractive offering 

of products and services, adversely affecting our business. We have also experienced, and anticipate that we will 

continue to experience, pricing pressure in many of our core businesses. Many of our businesses compete with 
other domestic and international banks and financial services companies, such as custody banks, investment 
advisors, broker/dealers, outsourcing companies and data processing companies. Further consolidation within the 
financial services industry could also pose challenges to us in the markets we serve, including potentially increased 
downward pricing pressure across our businesses.Some of our competitors, including our competitors in core services, have substantially greater capital resources than we do. In some of our businesses, we are service providers to significant competitors. These 
36competitors are in some instances significant clients, and the retention of these clients involves additional risks, such as the avoidance of actual or perceived conflicts of interest and the maintenance of high levels of service 
quality and intra-company confidentiality. The ability of a competitor to offer comparable or improved products or 

services at a lower price would likely negatively affect our ability to maintain or increase our profitability.  Many of 

our core services are subject to contracts that have relatively short terms or may be terminated by our client after a 
short notice period.  In addition, pricing pressures as a result of the activities of competitors, client pricing reviews, 
and rebids, as well as the introduction of new products, may result in a reduction in the prices we can charge for our 
products and services.Acquisitions, strategic alliances, joint ventures and divestitures pose risks for our business.As part of our business strategy, we acquire complementary businesses and technologies, enter into strategic 
alliances and joint ventures and divest portions of our business. In 2013, we continued the integration of prior 
acquisitions, including our 2012 acquisition of Goldman Sachs Administration Services, or GSAS. We undertake 

transactions of varying sizes to, among other reasons, expand our geographic footprint, access new clients, 
technologies or services, develop closer or more collaborative relationships with our business partners, efficiently 

deploy capital or leverage cost savings or other business or financial opportunities. We may not achieve the 

expected benefits of these transactions, which could result in increased costs, lowered revenues, ineffective 

deployment of capital, regulatory concerns, exit costs or diminished competitive position or reputation.Transactions of this nature also involve a number of risks and financial, accounting, tax, regulatory, 
managerial, operational, cultural and employment challenges, which could adversely affect our consolidated results 

of operations and financial condition. For example, the businesses that we acquire or our strategic alliances or joint 
ventures may under-perform relative to the price paid or the resources committed by us; we may not achieve 
anticipated cost savings; or we may otherwise be adversely affected by acquisition-related charges. Further, past 

acquisitions, including our acquisition of GSAS, have resulted in the recognition of goodwill and other significant 
intangible assets in our consolidated statement of condition. These assets are not eligible for inclusion in regulatory 

capital under current requirements and proposals. In addition, we may be required to record impairment in our 
consolidated statement of income in future periods if we determine that the value of these assets has declined. Through our acquisitions or joint ventures, we may also assume unknown or undisclosed business, operational, tax, regulatory and other liabilities, fail to properly assess known contingent liabilities or assume 
businesses with internal control deficiencies. While in most of our transactions we seek to mitigate these risks 
through, among other things, due diligence and indemnification provisions, these or other risk-mitigating provisions 
we put in place may not be sufficient to address these liabilities and contingencies.
Various regulatory approvals or consents are generally required prior to closing of these transactions, which 
may include approvals of the Federal Reserve and other domestic and non-U.S. regulatory authorities. These 

regulatory authorities may impose conditions on the completion of the acquisition or require changes to its terms 
that materially affect the terms of the transaction or our ability to capture some of the opportunities presented by the 

transaction. Any such conditions, or any associated regulatory delays, could limit the benefits of the transaction. 

Acquisitions or joint ventures we announce may not be completed if we do not receive the required regulatory 
approvals, if regulatory approvals are significantly delayed or if other closing conditions are not satisfied.The integration of our acquisitions results in risks to our business and other uncertainties.The integration of acquisitions presents risks that differ from the risks associated with our ongoing operations. 
Integration activities are complicated and time consuming and can involve significant unforeseen costs. We may not 

be able to effectively assimilate services, technologies, key personnel or businesses of acquired companies into our 

business or service offerings as anticipated, alliances may not be successful, and we may not achieve related 

revenue growth or cost savings. We also face the risk of being unable to retain, or cross-sell our products or 

services to, the clients of acquired companies or joint ventures.  Acquisitions of investment servicing businesses 

entail information technology systems conversions, which involve operational risks and may result in client 
dissatisfaction and defection. Clients of investment servicing businesses that we have acquired may be competitors 
of our non-custody businesses. The loss of some of these clients or a significant reduction in the revenues 

generated from them, for competitive or other reasons, could adversely affect the benefits that we expect to achieve 

from these acquisitions or cause impairment to goodwill and other intangibles. With any acquisition, the integration of the operations and resources of the businesses could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of our and the acquired company's ongoing businesses or inconsistencies in 
standards, controls, procedures or policies that could adversely affect our ability to maintain relationships with 

clients or employees or to achieve the anticipated benefits of the acquisition. Integration efforts may also divert 

management attention and resources.37Long-term contracts expose us to pricing and performance risk.We enter into long-term contracts to provide middle office or investment manager and alternative investment 
manager operations outsourcing services to clients, primarily for conversions, including services related but not 
limited to certain trading activities, cash reporting, settlement and reconciliation activities, collateral management 
and information technology development. We also enter into longer-term arrangements with respect to custody, 

fund administration and depository services.  These arrangements generally set forth our fee schedule for the term 

of the contract and, absent a change in service requirements, do not permit us to re-price the contract for changes 
in our costs or for market pricing. The long-term contracts for these relationships require, in some cases, 

considerable up-front investment by us, including technology and conversion costs, and carry the risk that pricing 
for the products and services we provide might not prove adequate to generate expected operating margins over 
the term of the contracts. The profitability of these contracts is largely a function of our ability to accurately calculate pricing for our services, efficiently assume our contractual responsibilities in a timely manner, control our costs and maintain the 

relationship with the client for an adequate period of time to recover our up-front investment. Our estimate of the 
profitability of these arrangements can be adversely affected by declines in the assets under the clients' 

management, whether due to general declines in the securities markets or client-specific issues. In addition, the 
profitability of these arrangements may be based on our ability to cross-sell additional services to these clients, and 
we may be unable to do so.Performance risk exists in each contract, given our dependence on successful conversion and implementation onto our own operating platforms of the service activities provided. Our failure to meet specified service levels or 
implementation timelines may also adversely affect our revenue from such arrangements, or permit early 

termination of the contracts by the client. If the demand for these types of services were to decline, we could see 
our revenue decline.Changes in accounting standards may be difficult to predict and may adversely affect our consolidated financial statements.New accounting standards, or changes to existing accounting standards, resulting both from initiatives of the Financial Accounting Standards Board, or FASB, or their convergence efforts with the International Accounting 

Standards Board, as well as changes in the interpretation of existing accounting standards, by the FASB or the SEC 

or otherwise reflected in GAAP, potentially could affect our consolidated results of operations, cash flows and 

financial condition. These changes are difficult to predict, and can materially affect how we record and report our 

consolidated results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and other financial information. In some cases, we 
could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the revised treatment of certain 

transactions or activities, and, in some cases, the restatement of our consolidated financial statements for prior 
periods.Changes in tax laws, rules or regulations, challenges to our tax positions with respect to historical transactions, and changes in the composition of our pre-tax earnings may increase our effective tax rate 
and thus adversely affect our consolidated financial statements.Our businesses can be directly or indirectly affected by new tax legislation, the expiration of existing tax laws 
or the interpretation of existing tax laws worldwide. The U.S. federal government, Massachusetts, other state 

governments and jurisdictions around the world continue to review proposals to amend tax laws, rules and 
regulations applicable to our business that could have a negative impact on our after-tax earnings.  In addition, the 
expiration at the end of 2013 of certain U.S. tax laws that favorably affected the taxation of our non-U.S. operations 

could begin to affect the results of those operations in 2014. Although these U.S. tax laws have previously expired 

and been re-enacted, it is uncertain whether they will be re-enacted again.In the normal course of our business, we are subject to review by U.S. and non-U.S. tax authorities.  A review 
by any such authority could result in an increase in our recorded tax liability. In addition to the aforementioned risks, 

our effective tax rate is dependent on the nature and geographic composition of our pre-tax earnings and could be 

negatively affected by changes in these factors.
The quantitative models we use to manage our business may contain errors that result in inadequate risk assessments, inaccurate valuations or poor business decisions.We use quantitative models to help manage many different aspects of our businesses. As an input to our 
overall assessment of capital adequacy, we use models to measure the amount of credit risk, market risk, 

operational risk, interest-rate risk and business risk we face. During the preparation of our consolidated financial 
statements, we sometimes use models to measure the value of asset and liability positions for which reliable market 
prices are not available. We also use models to support many different types of business decisions including trading 
38activities, hedging, asset-and-liability management and whether to change business strategy. In all of these uses, 
errors in the underlying model or model assumptions, or inadequate model assumptions, could result in 
unanticipated and adverse consequences. Because of our widespread usage of models, potential errors in models 
pose an ongoing risk to us.Additionally, we may fail to accurately quantify the magnitude of the risks we face. Our measurement 
methodologies rely on many assumptions and historical analyses and correlations. These assumptions may be 

incorrect, and the historical correlations on which we rely may not continue to be relevant. Consequently, the 

measurements that we make for regulatory and economic capital may not adequately capture or express the true 
risk profiles of our businesses. Additionally, as businesses and markets evolve, our measurements may not 

accurately reflect this evolution. While our risk measures may indicate sufficient capitalization, we may in fact have 

inadequate capital to conduct our businesses.We may incur losses as a result of unforeseen events, including terrorist attacks, natural disasters, the 
emergence of a pandemic or acts of embezzlement.Acts of terrorism, natural disasters or the emergence of a pandemic could significantly affect our business. We 
have instituted disaster recovery and continuity plans to address risks from terrorism, natural disasters and 
pandemic; however, anticipating or addressing all potential contingencies is not possible for events of this nature. 

Acts of terrorism, either targeted or broad in scope, or natural disasters could damage our physical facilities, harm 
our employees and disrupt our operations. A pandemic, or concern about a possible pandemic, could lead to 

operational difficulties and impair our ability to manage our business. Acts of terrorism, natural disasters and 

pandemics could also negatively affect our clients, counterparties and service providers, as well as result in 

disruptions in general economic activity and the financial markets.ITEM 1B.   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS
None.ITEM 2. PROPERTIESWe occupy a total of approximately 8.3 million square feet of office space and related facilities worldwide, of 
which approximately 7.4 million square feet are leased. Of the total leased space, approximately 3.3 million square 
feet are located in eastern Massachusetts. An additional 1.5 million square feet are located elsewhere throughout 

the U.S. and in Canada. We lease approximately 1.9 million square feet in the U.K. and elsewhere in Europe, and 

approximately 700,000 square feet in the Asia/Pacific region. 
Our headquarters is located at State Street Financial Center, One Lincoln Street, Boston, Massachusetts, a 
36-story office building. Various divisions of our two lines of business, as well as support functions, occupy space in 

this building. We lease the entire 1,025,000 square feet of the building, and a related underground parking garage, 

at One Lincoln Street, under 20-year non-cancelable capital leases expiring in 2023. A portion of the lease 

payments is offset by subleases for approximately 129,000 square feet of the building. 
In 2012, construction began on the Channel Center, a build-to-suit office building located in Boston, designed 
to consolidate our staff from various eastern Massachusetts locations.  We expect to begin leasing the entire 

500,000 square feet of this building beginning in early 2014.  We occupy three buildings located in Quincy, 

Massachusetts, one of which we own and two of which we lease. The buildings, containing a total of approximately 

1.1 million square feet (720,000 square feet owned and 380,000 square feet leased), function as State Street 
Bank's principal operations facilities. We occupy other principal properties located in Missouri, New Jersey, New York, California and Ontario, 
composed of five leased buildings containing a total of approximately 938,000 square feet, under leases expiring 
from June 2015 to March 2025.  Significant properties in the U.K. and Europe include nine buildings located in 
England, Scotland, Poland, Ireland, Luxembourg, Germany, France and Italy, containing approximately 1.3 million 

square feet under leases expiring from January 2019 through August 2034.  Principal properties located in China 

and Australia consist of three buildings containing approximately 420,000 square feet under leases expiring from 

September 2015 through May 2021. We believe that our owned and leased facilities are suitable and adequate for our business needs. Additional 
information about our occupancy costs, including our commitments under non-cancelable leases, is provided in 
note 20 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.39ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
In the ordinary course of business, we and our subsidiaries are involved in disputes, litigation and regulatory inquiries and investigations, both pending and threatened. These matters, if resolved adversely against us or 

settled, may result in monetary damages, fines and penalties or require changes in our business practices. The 

resolution or settlement of these matters is inherently difficult to predict. Based on our assessment of these pending 

matters, we do not believe that the amount of any judgment, settlement or other action arising from any pending 
matter is likely to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition.  However, an adverse 

outcome in certain of the matters described below could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results 

of operations for the period in which such matter is resolved or an accrual is determined to be required, on our 
consolidated financial condition or on our reputation.We evaluate our needs for accruals of loss contingencies related to legal proceedings on a case-by-case 
basis. When we have a liability that we deem probable and can be reasonably estimated as of the date of our 
consolidated financial statements, we accrue for our estimate of the loss.  We consider a loss probable and 

establish an accrual when we make or intend to make an offer of settlement.  Once established, an accrual is 

subject to subsequent adjustment as a result of additional information. The resolution of proceedings and the 

reasonably estimable loss (or range thereof) are inherently difficult to predict, especially in the early stages of 

proceedings. Even if a loss is probable, due to many complex factors, such as speed of discovery and the timing of 
court decisions or rulings, a loss or range of loss might not be reasonably estimated until the later stages of the 
proceeding.As of December 31, 2013, our aggregate accruals for legal loss contingencies and regulatory matters totaled approximately $119 million.  To the extent that we have established accruals in our consolidated statement of 

condition for probable loss contingencies, such accruals may not be sufficient to cover our ultimate financial 

exposure associated with any settlements or judgments. We may be subject to proceedings in the future that, if 

adversely resolved, would have a material adverse effect on our businesses or on our future consolidated financial 

statements. Except where otherwise noted below, we have not established accruals with respect to the claims 

discussed and do not believe that potential exposure is probable and can be reasonably estimated.  The following discussion provides information with respect to significant legal and regulatory matters.  SSgAWe have previously reported on two related ERISA class actions by investors in unregistered SSgA-managed 
collective trust funds and common trust funds which challenge the division of our securities lending-related revenue 
between those funds and State Street in its role as lending agent. In January 2014, we filed a motion to approve a 
$10 million class settlement of the collective trust fund litigation.  A final fairness hearing has been scheduled for 

May 2014.  The common trust fund class action remains pending. We have accrued $15 million in connection with 

these matters, including the proposed class settlement.Securities FinanceTwo related participants in our agency securities lending program have brought suit against us challenging 
actions taken by us in response to their withdrawal from the program. We believe that certain withdrawals by these 

participants were inconsistent with the redemption policy applicable to the agency lending collateral pools and, 
consequently, redeemed their remaining interests through an in-kind distribution that reflected the assets these 

participants would have received had they acted in accordance with the collateral pools' redemption policy. In taking 

these actions, we believe that we acted in the best interests of all participants in the collateral pools. The two 

participants have asserted damages of $120 million, an amount that plaintiffs have stated was the difference 

between the amortized cost and market value of the assets that State Street proposed to distribute to the plans in-
kind on or about August 2009. While management does not believe that such difference is an appropriate measure 

of damages, we have been informed that the participants liquidated these securities in June 2013, and we estimate 
the loss on those sales to be approximately $11 million. We have accrued $10 million in connection with this matter.
Foreign ExchangeWe offer our custody clients and their investment managers the option to route foreign exchange transactions 
to our foreign exchange desk through our asset servicing operation. We record as revenue an amount 

approximately equal to the difference between the rates we set for those trades and indicative interbank market 

rates at the time of settlement of the trade. As discussed more fully below, claims have been asserted on behalf of 

certain current and former custody clients, and future claims may be asserted, alleging that our indirect foreign 
exchange rates (including the differences between those rates and indicative interbank market rates at the time we 
40executed the trades) were not adequately disclosed or were otherwise improper, and seeking to recover, among 
other things, the full amount of the revenue we obtained from our indirect foreign exchange trading with them.In October 2009, the Attorney General of the State of California commenced an action under the California 
False Claims Act and California Business and Professional Code related to services State Street provides to 

California state pension plans. The California Attorney General asserts that the pricing of certain foreign exchange 

transactions for these pension plans was governed by the custody contracts for these plans and that our pricing 
was not consistent with the terms of those contracts and related disclosures to the plans, and that, as a result, State 
Street made false claims and engaged in unfair competition. The Attorney General asserts actual damages of 

approximately $100 million for periods from 2001 to 2009 and seeks additional penalties, including treble damages. 
This action is in the discovery phase.We provide custody and principal foreign exchange services to government pension plans in other 
jurisdictions. Since the commencement of the litigation in California, attorneys general and other governmental 
authorities from a number of jurisdictions, as well as U.S. Attorney's offices, the U.S. Department of Labor and the 

SEC, have requested information or issued subpoenas in connection with inquiries into the pricing of our foreign 
exchange services. We continue to respond to such inquiries and subpoenas.
We offer indirect foreign exchange services such as those we offer to the California state pension plans to a 
broad range of custody clients in the U.S. and internationally. We have responded and are responding to 

information requests from a number of clients concerning our indirect foreign exchange rates. In February 2011, a 

putative class action was filed in federal court in Boston seeking unspecified damages, including treble damages, 
on behalf of all custodial clients that executed certain foreign exchange transactions with State Street from 1998 to 
2009. The putative class action alleges, among other things, that the rates at which State Street executed foreign 

currency trades constituted an unfair and deceptive practice under Massachusetts law and a breach of the duty of 
loyalty.
Two other putative class actions are currently pending in federal court in Boston alleging various violations of 
ERISA on behalf of all ERISA plans custodied with us that executed indirect foreign exchange transactions with 

State Street from 1998 onward. The complaints allege that State Street caused class members to pay unfair and 

unreasonable rates for indirect foreign exchange transactions with State Street. The complaints seek unspecified 

damages, disgorgement of profits, and other equitable relief.We have not established an accrual with respect to any of the pending legal proceedings related to our indirect 
foreign exchange services. We cannot provide any assurance as to the outcome of the pending proceedings, or 

whether other proceedings might be commenced against us by clients or government authorities. We expect that 

plaintiffs will seek to recover their share of all or a portion of the revenue that we have recorded from providing 

indirect foreign exchange services.The following table summarizes our estimated total revenue worldwide from indirect foreign exchange trading services for the years ended December 31:(In millions)201320122011201020092008
Revenue from indirect foreign exchangetrading$285
$248$331$336$369$462
We believe that the amount of our revenue from such services has been of a similar or lesser order of 
magnitude for many years prior to 2008. Our revenue calculations related to indirect foreign exchange trading 
services reflect a judgment concerning the relationship between the rates we charge for indirect foreign exchange 
execution and indicative interbank market rates near in time to execution. Our revenue from foreign exchange 
trading generally depends on the difference between the rates we set for indirect trades and indicative interbank 

market rates on the date trades settle.We cannot predict the outcome of any pending matters or whether a court, in the event of an adverse 
resolution, would consider our revenue to be the appropriate measure of damages.Shareholder LitigationThree shareholder-related complaints are currently pending in federal court in Boston. One complaint purports to be a class action on behalf of State Street shareholders. The two other complaints purport to be class actions on 

behalf of participants and beneficiaries in the State Street Salary Savings Program who invested in the program's 
State Street common stock investment option. The complaints allege various violations of the federal securities 

laws, common law and ERISA in connection with our public disclosures concerning our investment securities 

portfolio, our asset-backed commercial paper conduit program, and our foreign exchange trading business. A fourth 
41complaint, a purported shareholder derivative action on behalf of State Street, was dismissed in September 2013. We have accrued $12.5 million in connection with these matters. 
Transition Management
In January 2014, we entered into a settlement with the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority as a result of our 
having charged six clients of our U.K. transition management business during 2010 and 2011 amounts in excess of 

the contractual terms.  We agreed to and have paid a fine of £22.9 million, or approximately $37.8 million, which we 

had fully accrued as of December 31, 2013.  The SEC and the U.S. Attorney are conducting separate investigations 

into this matter.  As of December 31, 2013, in addition to the above-described settlement, we had remaining 

accruals of approximately $13 million for other costs associated with the reimbursement of the affected clients and 

indemnification costs. Investment ServicingState Street is named as a defendant in a series of related complaints by investment management clients of TAG Virgin Islands, Inc., or TAG, who hold or held custodial accounts with State Street. The complaints, collectively, 

allege various claims in connection with certain assets managed by TAG and custodied with State Street.  In 2013, 

we entered into settlements with certain of the TAG account holders.  As of December 31, 2013, we had accrued 

$4.6 million with respect to claims that have not been settled.ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES
Not applicable.42EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANTThe following table presents certain information with respect to each of our executive officers as of 
February 21, 2014.NameAgePosition
Joseph L. Hooley56Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Joseph C. Antonellis59Vice Chairman

Michael W. Bell50Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Jeffrey N. Carp57Executive Vice President, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary

John L. Klinck, Jr.50Executive Vice President

Andrew Kuritzkes53Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer

James J. Malerba59Executive Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer

Peter O'Neill55Executive Vice President

Christopher Perretta56Executive Vice President

James S. Phalen63Executive Vice President

Scott F. Powers54President and Chief Executive Officer of State Street Global Advisors

Alison A. Quirk52Executive Vice President

Michael F. Rogers56Executive Vice President
All executive officers are appointed by the Board and hold office at the discretion of the Board. No family 
relationships exist among any of our directors and executive officers.
Mr. Hooley joined State Street in 1986 and has served as our President and Chief Executive Officer since 
March 2010, prior to which he had served as President and Chief Operating Officer since April 2008. From 2002 to 

April 2008, Mr. Hooley served as Executive Vice President and head of Investor Services and, in 2006, was 

appointed Vice Chairman and Global Head of Investment Servicing and Investment Research and Trading. 

Mr. Hooley was elected to serve on the Board of Directors effective October 22, 2009, and he was appointed 

Chairman of the Board effective January 1, 2011.
Mr. Antonellis joined State Street in 1991 and has served as head of all Europe and Asia/Pacific Global 
Services and Global Markets businesses since March 2010. Prior to this, in 2003, he was named head of 
Information Technology and Global Securities Services. In 2006, he was appointed Vice Chairman with additional 

responsibility as head of Investor Services in North America and Global Investment Manager Outsourcing Services.
Mr. Bell joined State Street in 2013 as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining 
State Street, Mr. Bell served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of Manulife Financial Corporation, 

a leading Canada-based financial services group with principal operations in Asia, Canada and the U.S., from 2009 

to 2012. From 2002 to 2009, he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer at Cigna Corporation, 

a global health services organization where he had previously served in several senior management positions, 
including as President of Cigna Group Insurance.Mr. Carp joined State Street in 2006 as Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer.  Later in 2006, he 
was also appointed Secretary. From 2004 to 2005, Mr. Carp served as executive vice president and general counsel 

of Massachusetts Financial Services, an investment management and research company. From 1989 until 2004, 

Mr. Carp was a senior partner at the law firm of Hale and Dorr LLP, where he was an attorney since 1982. Mr. Carp 

served as State Street's interim Chief Risk Officer from February 2010 until September 2010.
Mr. Klinck joined State Street in 2006 and has served as Executive Vice President and global head of 
Corporate Development and Global Relationship Management since March 2010, prior to which he served as 
Executive Vice President and global head of Alternative Investment Solutions. Prior to joining State Street, 

Mr. Klinck was with Mellon Financial Corporation, a global financial services company, from 1997 to 2006. During 

that time, he served as vice chairman and president of its Investment Manager Solutions group and before that as 
chairman for Mellon Europe, where he was responsible for the company™s investor services business in the region.
Mr. Kuritzkes joined State Street in 2010 as Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer. Prior to joining 
State Street, Mr. Kuritzkes was a partner at Oliver, Wyman & Company, an international management consulting 

firm, and led the firm™s Public Policy practice in North America. He joined Oliver, Wyman & Company in 1988, was a 

managing director in the firm™s London office from 1993 to 1997, and served as vice chairman of Oliver, Wyman & 
43Company globally from 2000 until the firm™s acquisition by MMC in 2003. From 1986 to 1988, he worked as an 
economist and lawyer for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
Mr. Malerba joined State Street in 2004 as Deputy Corporate Controller. In 2006, he was appointed Corporate 
Controller and Chief Accounting Officer.  Prior to joining State Street, he served as Deputy Controller at FleetBoston 

Financial Corporation from 2000 and continued in that role after the merger with Bank of America Corporation in 

2004.Mr. O'Neill has served as Executive Vice President and head of Global Markets and Global Services in Europe, 
the Middle East and Africa since November 2012 and prior to that he served as head of Global Markets and Global 

Services in the Asia/Pacific region. He joined State Street in 1985 and has held several senior positions during his 

tenure, including his appointment in January 2000 as managing director of State Street Global Markets in Europe. 
This role was expanded in June 2006 to include responsibility for Investor Services for the U.K., Middle East and 
Africa. Mr. Perretta joined State Street in 2007 as Executive Vice President and Chief Information Officer. Prior to 
joining State Street, from 2002 to 2007, Mr. Perretta was the chief information officer for General Electric 

Commercial Finance, where he had previously served in several senior management positions. Prior to that, Mr. 

Perretta was an associate partner at Arthur Anderson Consulting (now Accenture).  
Mr. Phalen joined State Street in 1992 and has served as Executive Vice President and head of Global 
Operations, Technology and Product Development since March 2010. Prior to that, starting in 2003, he served as 

Executive Vice President of State Street and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of CitiStreet, a global benefits 

provider and retirement plan record keeper. In February 2005, he was appointed head of Investor Services in North 

America. In 2006, he was appointed head of international operations for Investment Servicing and Investment 
Research and Trading, based in Europe. From January 2008 until May 2008, he served on an interim basis as 

President and Chief Executive Officer of SSgA, following which he returned to his role as head of international 

operations for Investment Servicing and Investment Research and Trading. 
Mr. Powers joined State Street in 2008 as President and Chief Executive Officer of State Street Global 
Advisors. Prior to joining State Street, Mr. Powers served as Chief Executive Officer of Old Mutual US, the U.S. 

operating unit of London-based Old Mutual plc, an international savings and wealth management company, from 

2001 through 2008. Ms. Quirk joined State Street in 2002, and since January 2012 has served as Chief Human Resources and Citizenship Officer. She has served as Executive Vice President and head of Global Human Resources since March 

2010. Prior to that, Ms. Quirk served as Executive Vice President in Global Human Resources and held various 

senior roles in that group. Mr. Rogers joined State Street in 2007 as part of our acquisition of Investors Financial Services Corp., and he 
has served as Executive Vice President and head of Global Markets and Global Services - Americas since 

November 2011. He has served as head of Global Services, including alternative investment solutions, for all of the 

Americas since March 2010. Mr. Rogers was previously head of the Relationship Management group, a role which 

he held beginning in 2009. From State Street's acquisition of Investors Financial Services Corp. in July 2007 to 
2009, Mr. Rogers headed the post-acquisition Investors Financial Services Corp. business and its integration into 

State Street. Before joining State Street at the time of the acquisition, Mr. Rogers spent 27 years at Investors 
Financial Services Corp. and its predecessors in various capacities, most recently as President beginning in 2001.PART II
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT™S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND 
ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITYOur common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol STT. There were 3,269 
shareholders of record as of January 31, 2014.  The information required by this item concerning the market prices 

of, and dividends on, our common stock during the past two years is provided under ﬁQuarterly Summarized 
Financial Information (Unaudited)ﬂ included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K, and is incorporated herein by reference.In March 2013, our Board of Directors approved a new common stock purchase program authorizing the purchase by us of up to $2.10 billion of our common stock through March 31, 2014.  44The following table presents purchases of our common stock and related information for each of the months in the quarter ended December 31, 2013.  All shares of our common stock purchased during the quarter ended 

December 31, 2013 were purchased under the above-described Board-approved program.  We may employ third-
party broker/dealers to acquire shares on the open market in connection with our common stock purchase 
programs.(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts, sharesin thousands)Total Number ofShares PurchasedUnder PubliclyAnnouncedProgramAverage PricePaid Per ShareApproximateDollar Value ofShares PurchasedUnder PubliclyAnnouncedProgramApproximateDollar Value ofShares Yet to bePurchased UnderPubliclyAnnouncedProgramPeriod:October 1 - October 31, 20132,709$
67.47$183$797
November 1 - November 30, 20133,60071.27256541
December 1 - December 31, 20131,69371.27121420
Total8,002$
69.98$560$420
Additional information about our common stock, including Board authorization with respect to purchases by us of our common stock, is provided under ﬁCapitalﬂ in Management's Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7, 

and in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8, of this Form 10-K, and is 
incorporated herein by reference.RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
As a bank holding company, our parent company is a legal entity separate and distinct from its principal 
banking subsidiary, State Street Bank, and its non-banking subsidiaries. The right of the parent company to 

participate as a shareholder in any distribution of assets of State Street Bank upon its liquidation, reorganization or 
otherwise is subject to the prior claims by creditors of State Street Bank, including obligations for federal funds 
purchased and securities sold under repurchase agreements and deposit liabilities. Payment of dividends by State Street Bank is subject to the provisions of the Massachusetts banking law, 
which provide that State Street Bank's Board of Directors may declare, from State Street Bank's net profits (as 
defined below), cash dividends annually, semi-annually or quarterly (but not more frequently) and can declare non-

cash dividends at any time. Under Massachusetts banking law, for purposes of determining the amount of cash 

dividends that are payable by State Street Bank, ﬁnet profitsﬂ is defined as an amount equal to the remainder of all 
earnings from current operations plus actual recoveries on loans and investments and other assets, after deducting 
from the total thereof all current operating expenses, actual losses, accrued dividends on preferred stock, if any, and 

all federal and state taxes.No dividends may be declared, credited or paid so long as there is any impairment of State Street Bank's capital stock. The approval of the Massachusetts Commissioner of Banks is required if the total of all dividends 

declared by State Street Bank in any calendar year would exceed the total of its net profits for that year combined 
with its retained net profits for the preceding two years, less any required transfer to surplus or to a fund for the 
retirement of any preferred stock.Under the Federal Reserve Act, the approval of the Federal Reserve would be required for the payment of 
dividends by State Street Bank if the total amount of all dividends declared by State Street Bank in any calendar 
year, including any proposed dividend, would exceed the total of its net income for such calendar year as reported 

in State Street Bank's Consolidated Reports of Condition and Income for a Bank with Domestic and Foreign Offices Only - FFIEC 031, commonly referred to as the ﬁCall Report,ﬂ as submitted through the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council and provided to the Federal Reserve, plus its ﬁretained net incomeﬂ for the preceding two 
calendar years.  For these purposes, ﬁretained net income,ﬂ as of any date of determination, is defined as an 
amount equal to State Street Bank's net income (as reported in its Call Reports for the calendar year in which 
retained net income is being determined) less any dividends declared during such year. In determining the amount 

of dividends that are payable, the total of State Street Bank's net income for the current year and its retained net 
income for the preceding two calendar years is reduced by any net losses incurred in the current or preceding two-
year period and by any required transfers to surplus or to a fund for the retirement of preferred stock. Prior Federal Reserve approval also must be obtained if a proposed dividend would exceed State Street Bank's ﬁundivided profitsﬂ (retained earnings) as reported in its Call Reports. State Street Bank may include in its 45undivided profits amounts contained in its surplus account, if the amounts reflect transfers of undivided profits made in prior periods and if the Federal Reserve's approval for the transfer back to undivided profits has been obtained. Under the prompt corrective action, or PCA, provisions adopted pursuant to the FDIC Improvement Act of 
1991, State Street Bank may not pay a dividend when it is deemed, under the PCA framework, to be under-

capitalized, or when the payment of the dividend would cause State Street Bank to be under-capitalized.  If State 
Street Bank is under-capitalized for purposes of the PCA framework, it must cease paying dividends for so long as it 

is deemed to be under-capitalized. Once earnings have begun to improve and an adequate capital position has 
been restored, dividend payments may resume in accordance with federal and state statutory limitations and 
guidelines. In 2013, our parent company declared aggregate quarterly common stock dividends to its shareholders of $1.04 per share, totaling approximately $463 million.  In 2012, our parent company declared aggregate quarterly 
common stock dividends to its shareholders of $0.96 per share, totaling approximately $456 million.  Currently, the 

payment of future common stock dividends by our parent company to its shareholders is subject to the review of our 
capital plan by the Federal Reserve in connection with its CCAR process.  Information about dividends declared by 
our parent company and dividends from our subsidiary banks is provided under ﬁCapitalﬂ in Management's 
Discussion and Analysis included under Item 7, and in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included 

under Item 8, of this Form 10-K, and is incorporated herein by reference.  Future dividend payments of State Street 
Bank and our non-banking subsidiaries cannot be determined at this time.  In addition, refer to ﬁBusiness - 
Supervision and Regulation - Capital Planning, Stress Tests and Dividendsﬂ included under Item 1 of this Form 10-K 

and the risk factor titled ﬁOur business and capital-related activities, including our ability to return capital to shareholders and purchase our capital stock, may be adversely affected by our implementation of the revised 
regulatory capital and liquidity standards that we must meet under Basel III, the Dodd-Frank Act and other 

regulatory initiatives, or in the event our capital plan or post-stress capital ratios are determined to be insufficient as 
a result of regulatory capital stress testingﬂ included under Item 1A of this Form 10-K.
Information about our equity compensation plans is included under Item 12, and in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8, of this Form 10-K, and is incorporated herein by reference.46SHAREHOLDER RETURN PERFORMANCE PRESENTATION
The graph presented below compares the cumulative total shareholder return on State Street's common stock to the cumulative total return of the S&P 500 Index, the S&P Financial Index and the KBW Bank Index over a five-

year period. The cumulative total shareholder return assumes the investment of $100 in State Street common stock 

and in each index on December 31, 2008 at the closing price on the last trading day of 2008, and also assumes 
reinvestment of common stock dividends. The S&P Financial Index is a publicly available measure of 81 of the 

Standard & Poor's 500 companies, representing 17 diversified financial services companies, 22 insurance 
companies, 19 real estate companies and 23 banking companies.  The KBW Bank Index seeks to reflect the 

performance of banks and thrifts that are publicly traded in the U.S., and is composed of 24 leading national money 
center and regional banks and thrifts.200820092010201120122013
State Street Corporation$100$111$118$105$125$198
S&P 500 Index100126146149172228
S&P Financial Index100117132109141191
KBW Bank Index1009812193122168
47ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts or where otherwise noted)FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31:20132012201120102009
Total fee revenue$7,590
$7,088$7,194$6,540$5,935
Net interest revenue2,3032,5382,3332,6992,564
Gains (losses) related to investment securities, net(1)(9)2367(286)141
Total revenue9,8849,6499,5948,9538,640
Provision for loan losses6(3)Š25149
Expenses:  Compensation and employee benefits3,8003,8373,8203,5243,037
Information systems and communications935844776713656
Transaction processing services733702732653583
Occupancy467470455463475
Claims resolutionŠ(362)ŠŠŠ
Provision for legal exposure related to fixed-income strategiesŠŠŠŠ250
Securities lending chargeŠŠŠ414Š
Acquisition and restructuring costs, net(2)10422526925249
Other1,1531,1701,006823916
Total expenses7,1926,8867,0586,8425,966
Income before income tax expense and extraordinary loss2,6862,7662,5362,0862,525
Income tax expense(3)550705616530722
Income before extraordinary loss2,1362,0611,9201,5561,803
Extraordinary loss, net of taxesŠŠŠŠ(3,684)
Net income (loss)$2,136
$2,061$1,920$1,556$(1,881)
Adjustments to net income (loss)(4)(34)
(42)(38)(16)(163)
Net income before extraordinary loss available to common shareholders$2,102
$2,019$1,882$1,540$1,640
Net income (loss) available to common shareholders$2,102
$2,019$1,882$1,540$(2,044)
PER COMMON SHARE:
Earnings per common share before extraordinary loss:Basic$4.71
$4.25$3.82$3.11$3.50
Diluted4.624.203.793.093.46
Earnings (loss) per common share:Basic$4.71
$4.25$3.82$3.11$(4.32)
Diluted4.624.203.793.09(4.31)
Cash dividends declared1.04.96.72.04.04
Closing market price (at year end)$73.39
$47.01$40.31$46.34$43.54
AT YEAR END:Investment securities$116,914
$121,061$109,153$94,130$93,576
Average total interest-earning assets178,101167,615147,657126,256122,923
Total assets243,291222,582216,827160,505157,946
Deposits182,268164,181157,28798,34590,062
Long-term debt9,6997,4298,1318,5508,838
Total shareholders' equity20,37820,86919,39817,78714,491
Assets under custody and administration (in billions)27,42724,37121,80721,52718,795
Assets under management (in billions)2,3452,0861,8452,0101,951
Number of employees29,43029,65029,74028,67027,310
RATIOS:
Return on average common shareholders' equity before extraordinary loss10.5%
10.3%10.0%9.5%13.2%
Return on average assets before extraordinary loss1.021.051.091.021.12
Common dividend payout before extraordinary loss21.9722.4318.831.291.17
Average common equity to average total assets9.610.110.910.88.5
Net interest margin, fully taxable-equivalent basis1.371.591.672.242.19
Tier 1 risk-based capital17.319.118.820.517.7
Total risk-based capital19.720.620.522.019.1
Tier 1 leverage ratio6.97.17.38.28.5
(1)   Amount for 2012 reflected a $46 million loss from the sale of our Greek investment securities; amount for 2010 included a net loss of $344 million related to a repositioning of our investment portfolio. (2)   Amounts for 2012 and 2011 reflected acquisition costs of $66 million and $71 million, respectively, offset by indemnification b
enefits of $40 million and $55 million, respectively, for the assumption of income tax liabilities related to the 2010 acquisition of the Intesa securities services bu
siness.(3)   Amount for 2013 included a $71 million out-of-period benefit to adjust deferred taxes.  Amounts for 2012 and 2011 reflected the
 net effects of certain tax matters 
($7 million benefit and $55 million expense, respectively) associated with the 2010 Intesa acquisition.  Amounts for 2011 and 2
010 reflected discrete tax benefits of $103 million and $180 million, respectively, attributable to costs incurred in terminating former conduit asset structures.
(4)   Amounts for 2013, 2012 and 2011 represented preferred stock dividends and the allocation of earnings to participating securitie
s using the two-class method.  Amount for 2010 represented the allocation of earnings to participating securities using the two-class method. Amounts for 2009
 represented dividends and discount related to preferred stock issued in connection with the U.S. Treasury's Troubled Asset Relief Program in 2008 and red
eemed in 2009.48STATE STREET CORPORATION
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION 
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
Table of Contents
General49Overview of Financial Results50Consolidated Results of Operations53Total Revenue
54Fee Revenue54Net Interest Revenue61Gains (Losses) Related to Investment Securities, Net64
Provision for Loan Losses64Expenses65Income Tax Expense
69Line of Business Information69Consolidated Results of Operations - Comparison of 2012 and 201172
Overview of Consolidated Results of Operations72
Total Revenue
73Expenses74Income Tax Expense
75Financial Condition75Investment Securities77Loans and Leases84Cross-Border Outstandings87Risk Management88Credit Risk Management92Liquidity Risk Management94Operational Risk Management100Market Risk Management102Trading Activities
102Asset-and-Liability Management Activities106
Model Risk Management109Business Risk Management109Capital110
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
119
Significant Accounting Estimates
119
Recent Accounting Developments
12249ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF 
OPERATIONS
GENERALState Street Corporation, or the parent company, is a financial holding company headquartered in Boston, 
Massachusetts. Unless otherwise indicated or unless the context requires otherwise, all references in this 
Management's Discussion and Analysis to ﬁState Street,ﬂ ﬁwe,ﬂ ﬁus,ﬂ ﬁourﬂ or similar terms mean State Street 

Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Our principal banking subsidiary is State Street Bank and 
Trust Company, or State Street Bank.  As of December 31, 2013, we had consolidated total assets of $243.29 

billion, consolidated total deposits of $182.27 billion, consolidated total shareholders' equity of $20.38 billion and 
29,430 employees.  With $27.43 trillion of assets under custody and administration and $2.35 trillion of assets under 
management as of December 31, 2013, we are a leading specialist in meeting the needs of institutional investors 
worldwide. We have two lines of business: 

Investment Servicing provides services for mutual funds, collective investment funds and other investment pools, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies, foundations and endowments worldwide.  
Products include custody; product- and participant-level accounting; daily pricing and administration; master trust 
and master custody; record-keeping; cash management; foreign exchange, brokerage and other trading services; 
securities finance; deposit and short-term investment facilities; loans and lease financing; investment manager and 
alternative investment manager operations outsourcing; and performance, risk and compliance analytics to support 
institutional investors.Investment Management, through State Street Global Advisors, or SSgA, provides a broad array of investment 
management, investment research and investment advisory services to corporations, public funds and other 
sophisticated investors.  SSgA offers strategies for managing financial assets, including passive and active, such as 

enhanced indexing, using quantitative and fundamental methods for both U.S. and global equities and fixed-income 
securities.  SSgA also offers exchange-traded funds, or ETFs, such as the SPDR
® ETF brand.  For financial and other information about our lines of business, refer to ﬁLine of Business Informationﬂ included in this Management's Discussion and Analysis and in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements included 

under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  This Management's Discussion and Analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial 
statements and accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  
Certain previously reported amounts presented have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation. We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted 
in the U.S., referred to as GAAP.  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires 

management to make estimates and assumptions in its application of certain accounting policies that materially 
affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, equity, revenue and expenses. 
The significant accounting policies that require us to make estimates and assumptions that are difficult, 
subjective or complex about matters that are uncertain and may change in subsequent periods are accounting for 
fair value measurements; other-than-temporary impairment of investment securities; and impairment of goodwill and 
other intangible assets.  These significant accounting policies require the most subjective or complex judgments, 

and underlying estimates and assumptions could be subject to revision as new information becomes available.  An 

understanding of the judgments, estimates and assumptions underlying these significant accounting policies is 
essential in order to understand our reported consolidated results of operations and financial condition. Certain financial information provided in this Management's Discussion and Analysis is prepared on both a 
GAAP, or reported basis, and a non-GAAP, or operating basis, including certain non-GAAP measures used in the 

calculation of identified regulatory capital ratios.  We measure and compare certain financial information on an 

operating basis, as we believe that this presentation supports meaningful comparisons from period to period and 
the analysis of comparable financial trends with respect to State Street's normal ongoing business operations.  We 

believe that operating-basis financial information, which reports non-taxable revenue, such as interest revenue 
associated with tax-exempt investment securities, on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, facilitates an investor's 
understanding and analysis of State Street's underlying financial performance and trends in addition to financial 
information prepared and reported in conformity with GAAP.  
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
50We also believe that the use of certain non-GAAP measures in the calculation of identified regulatory capital 
ratios is useful in understanding State Street's capital position and is of interest to investors.  Operating-basis 
financial information should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, financial information 
prepared in conformity with GAAP.  Any non-GAAP, or operating-basis, financial information presented in this 

Management™s Discussion and Analysis is reconciled to its most directly comparable GAAP-basis measure.
This Management's Discussion and Analysis contains statements that are considered ﬁforward-looking 
statementsﬂ within the meaning of U.S. securities laws. Forward-looking statements are based on our current 
expectations about financial performance, capital, market growth, acquisitions, joint ventures and divestitures, new 
technologies, services and opportunities and earnings, management's confidence in our strategies and other 
matters that do not relate strictly to historical facts. These forward-looking statements involve certain risks and 

uncertainties which could cause actual results to differ materially. We undertake no obligation to revise the forward-

looking statements contained in this Management's Discussion and Analysis to reflect events after the time we file 

this Form 10-K with the SEC. Additional information about forward-looking statements and related risks and 

uncertainties is provided in ﬁRisk Factorsﬂ included under Item 1A of this Form 10-K. 
OVERVIEW OF FINANCIAL RESULTS
Years Ended December 31,201320122011
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)Total fee revenue$7,590
$7,088$7,194
Net interest revenue2,3032,5382,333
Gains (losses) related to investment securities, net(9)
2367
Total revenue9,8849,6499,594
Provision for loan losses6(3)Š
Total expenses7,1926,8867,058
Income before income tax expense2,6862,7662,536
Income tax expense(1)550705616
Net income$2,136
$2,061$1,920
Adjustments to net income:Dividends on preferred stock(26)(29)(20)
Earnings allocated to participating securities(8)
(13)(18)
Net income available to common shareholders$2,102
$2,019$1,882
Earnings per common share:Basic$4.71
$4.25$3.82
Diluted4.624.203.79
Average common shares outstanding (in thousands):Basic446,245474,458492,598
Diluted455,155481,129496,072
Cash dividends declared per common share$1.04
$.96$.72
Return on average common equity10.5%10.3%10.0%
(1)  Amount for 2013 included an out-of-period income tax benefit of $71 million to adjust deferred taxes.  Additional information a
bout this out-of-period benefit is provided under ﬁIncome Tax Expenseﬂ in this Management's Discussion and Analysis and in note 23 to the consol
idated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  Amounts for 2012 and 2011 reflected the net effects of certain t
ax matters ($7 million benefit and $55 million expense, respectively) associated with the 2010 Intesa acquisition.  Amount for 2011 reflected 
a discrete income tax benefit of $103 million attributable to costs incurred in terminating former conduit asset structures.The following ﬁHighlightsﬂ and ﬁFinancial Resultsﬂ sections provide information related to significant events, as well as highlights of our consolidated financial results for 2013 presented in the table above.  More detailed 
information about our consolidated financial results, including comparisons of our results for 2013 to those for 2012, 
is provided under ﬁConsolidated Results of Operations,ﬂ which follows these sections. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
51HighlightsIn March 2013, following the Federal Reserve's review of our 2013 capital plan, with respect to which the Federal Reserve did not object to the capital actions we proposed, our Board of Directors approved a new common 
stock purchase program authorizing the purchase by us of up to $2.10 billion of our common stock through 
March 31, 2014.  In connection with this and a prior Board-approved program, we undertook the following activities 
in 2013:Ł From April 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013, under the above-described March 2013 program, we 
purchased approximately 24.7 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $68.05 per share 
and an aggregate cost of $1.68 billion.  Ł In the first quarter of 2013, in completion of a separate program approved by the Board in March 2012, we 
purchased an aggregate of 6.5 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $54.95 per share 
and an aggregate cost of $360 million.  Ł In 2013, under both programs combined, we purchased approximately 31.2 million shares of our common 
stock at an average price of $65.30 per share and an aggregate cost of approximately $2.04 billion.  As of December 31, 2013, approximately $420 million remained available for purchases of our common stock under the March 2013 program. In 2012, under the March 2012 program, we purchased an aggregate of 33.4 million shares of our common stock, at an aggregate cost of $1.44 billion.  In February 2013, we declared a quarterly common stock dividend of $0.26 per share.  This dividend 
represented an 8% increase over the quarterly common stock dividend of $0.24 per share declared by us in 
December 2012.  In all of 2013, we declared aggregate quarterly common stock dividends of $1.04 per share, 
totaling approximately $463 million, compared to declarations of aggregate quarterly common stock dividends of 
$0.96 per share, totaling approximately $456 million, in 2012.  The Federal Reserve is currently conducting a review of 2014 capital plans submitted in January 2014 by us and 
other large bank holding companies.  The levels at which we will be able to declare dividends and purchase shares of 

our common stock after March 2014 will depend on the Federal Reserve's assessment of our capital plan and our 

projected performance under the stress scenarios. While we anticipate that the Federal Reserve will not object to the 

continued return of capital to our shareholders through dividends and/or common stock purchases in 2014, we cannot 

provide assurance with respect to the Federal Reserve's assessment of our capital plan, or that we will be able to 

continue to return capital to our shareholders at any specific level. Additional information about our common stock purchase program and our common stock dividends is provided under ﬁFinancial Condition Œ Capitalﬂ in this Management's Discussion and Analysis.  In addition, 

information about dividends from our subsidiary banks is provided in ﬁRelated Stockholder Mattersﬂ included under 
Item 5, and in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8, of this Form 10-K.In November 2013, we issued $1.0 billion of 3.70% senior notes due November 20, 2023.  In addition, in May 2013, we issued $1.50 billion of senior and subordinated debt, composed of $500 million of 1.35% senior notes due 
May 15, 2018 and $1.0 billion of 3.10% subordinated notes due May 15, 2023.  Additional information about these 

debt issuances is provided in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 
10-K.In 2013, in connection with our continued implementation of our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation program, we achieved incremental pre-tax expense savings of approximately $220 

million, and as previously reported, we achieved incremental pre-tax expense savings of approximately $112 million 

in 2012 and $86 million in 2011, in each case compared to our 2010 expenses from operations, all else being equal.  

These pre-tax expense savings relate only to the Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation 

program and are based on projected improvement from our total 2010 expenses from operations.  Our actual total 
expenses have increased since 2010, and may in the future increase or decrease, due to other factors.  Additional 

information with respect to the program is provided under ﬁConsolidated Results of Operations - Expensesﬂ in this 
Management's Discussion and Analysis. 
In January 2014, we entered into a settlement agreement with the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority as a result 
of our having charged six clients of our U.K. transition management business amounts in excess of the contractual 
terms in 2010 and 2011.  We agreed to and paid a fine of approximately $38 million in January 2014, which we had 

accrued as of December 31, 2013.  We incurred aggregate pre-tax costs in 2013 in connection with this matter of 

approximately $69 million, composed of the following:MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
52Ł Revenue rebates to affected clients of approximately $4 million, recorded as a reduction of other trading, 
transition management and brokerage revenue, a component of brokerage and other trading services 
revenue;Ł Securities processing costs of approximately $27 million, recorded in securities processing costs 
(recoveries), a component of other expenses; and Ł The above-described regulatory fine of approximately $38 million, recorded in other expenses. 

In addition to the above, we recorded approximately $15 million of revenue rebates in 2011 and approximately 
$17 million of revenue rebates and other costs in 2012 related to this matter.  The securities processing costs 

described above reflected probable and estimable costs as of December 31, 2013 related to an operating loss.  We  

resolved this in February 2014 at an additional cost of approximately $12 million.  We have incurred total costs 

associated with this matter, since it arose in 2010, of approximately $113 million, excluding legal and professional 

fees.  Additional information about this transition management matter is provided under ﬁLegal and Regulatory 

Mattersﬂ in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
Financial ResultsTotal revenue for 2013 increased 2% compared to 2012, as a combined 10% increase in aggregate servicing 
fee and management fee revenue and a 5% increase in trading services revenue were partly offset by declines in 

net interest revenue and securities finance revenue of 9% and 11%, respectively.  
Servicing fee revenue for 2013 increased 9% compared to 2012, mainly the result of stronger global equity markets, the impact of net new business installed, and the addition of revenue from the Goldman Sachs 
Administration Services, or GSAS, business, acquired in October 2012.  Servicing fees generated outside the U.S. 
in both 2013 and 2012 were approximately 42% of total servicing fees for those periods.  Management fee revenue 
increased 11% compared to 2012, primarily the result of stronger equity markets and the impact of net new 

business installed.  Management fees generated outside the U.S. in 2013 and 2012 were approximately 36% and 
37%, respectively, of total management fees for those periods.
Trading services revenue for 2013, composed of revenue generated by foreign exchange trading and 
brokerage and other trading services, increased 5% compared to 2012.  Revenue from foreign exchange trading 
was up 15%, with estimated indirect foreign exchange revenue up 15% and direct sales and trading foreign 
exchange revenue up 16%, from the prior year, with both increases mainly the result of higher client volumes, 

currency volatility and spreads.  Brokerage and other trading services revenue declined 5% compared to 2012, 
primarily reflective of the impact of lower distribution fees associated with the SPDR® Gold ETF, which resulted from 
lower average gold prices and net outflows from the SPDR® Gold ETF.  Securities finance revenue declined 11% for 
2013 compared to 2012, generally the result of lower spreads and slightly lower lending volumes.  Net interest revenue for 2013 declined 9% compared to 2012, generally the result of lower yields on earning assets related to lower global interest rates, partly offset by lower funding costs.  The decline in net interest revenue 

also reflected the continued impact of the reinvestment of pay-downs on existing investment securities in lower-
yielding investment securities.  Net interest revenue for 2013 and 2012 included $137 million and $215 million, 
respectively, of discount accretion related to investment securities added to our consolidated statement of condition 

in connection with our consolidation of the commercial paper conduits in 2009.  Net interest margin, calculated on fully taxable-equivalent net interest revenue, declined 22 basis points to 1.37% in 2013 from 1.59% in 2012.  Continued elevated levels of client deposits, amid continued market 
uncertainty, increased our average interest-earning assets, but negatively affected our net interest margin, as we 

generally placed a portion of these deposits with U.S. and non-U.S. central banks and earned the relatively low 
interest rates paid by the central banks on these balances.  Discount accretion, fully taxable-equivalent net interest 
revenue and net interest margin are discussed in more detail under ﬁConsolidated Results of Operations - Net 
Interest Revenueﬂ in this Management's Discussion and Analysis. 
Total expenses for 2013 increased 4% compared to 2012.  Total expenses for 2013 reflected aggregate credits 
of $85 million, recorded in other expenses, related to gains and recoveries associated with Lehman Brothers-related 
assets.  Total expenses for 2012 reflected a credit of $362 million, composed of recoveries associated with the 2008 

Lehman Brothers bankruptcy, and aggregate credits of $30 million related to litigation and other settlement 

recoveries associated with Lehman Brothers-related matters.  Excluding all of the Lehman Brothers-related credits 
recorded in 2013 and 2012, total expenses were essentially flat in the 2013-to-2012 comparison, at $7.28 billion for 
2013 ($7.19 billion plus $85 million) compared to $7.28 billion for 2012 ($6.89 billion plus $362 million and $30 
million).  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
53Compensation and employee benefits expenses were down 1% in 2013 compared to 2012, primarily due to savings associated with the implementation of our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation 

program and lower benefit costs, partly offset by an increase in costs to support new business and higher incentive 

compensation.  Information systems and communications expenses increased 11% compared to 2012, primarily 

from the planned transition of certain functions to third-party service providers in connection with the implementation 
of our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation program and costs to support new 

business.  Transaction processing services expenses were higher by 4%, the result of higher equity market values 

and higher transaction volumes in the asset servicing business.  Finally, other expenses declined 1%, mainly the 

result of the above-described 2013 gains and recoveries associated with Lehman Brothers-related assets.  
Additional information with respect to our expenses is provided under ﬁConsolidated Results of Operations - 
Expensesﬂ in this Management's Discussion and Analysis.  
In 2013, our global services business secured mandates for approximately $1.02 trillion of new business in assets to be serviced; of the total, $858 billion was installed prior to December 31, 2013, with the remaining $158 
billion expected to be installed in 2014.  The new business not installed by December 31, 2013 was not included in 

our assets under custody and administration as of that date, and had no impact on our servicing fee revenue for 
2013, as the assets are not included until their installation is complete and we begin to service them.  Once 
installed, the assets generate servicing fee revenue in subsequent periods in which the assets are serviced.  The 

$1.02 trillion of new asset servicing business represents gross new business, and is not net of transfers of assets by 
us to subcustodians.   We will provide one or more of various services for these new assets to be serviced, including accounting, 
bank loan servicing, compliance reporting and monitoring, custody, depository banking services, foreign exchange, 

fund administration, hedge fund servicing, middle-office outsourcing, performance and analytics, private equity 

administration, real estate administration, securities finance, transfer agency, and wealth management services.
In 2013, SSgA had approximately $5 billion of net lost business in assets to be managed, generally composed 
of $34 billion of net outflows from alternative investments, partly offset by net inflows of $13 billion into managed 

cash, net inflows of $6 billion into equities, net inflows of $4 billion into multi-asset-class solutions and net inflows of 
$3 billion each into fixed-income and securities lending funds. An additional $13 billion of new business awarded to SSgA but not installed by December 31, 2013 was not 
included in our assets under management as of that date, and had no impact on our management fee revenue for 
2013, as the assets are not included until their installation is complete and we begin to manage them.  Once 
installed, the assets generate management fee revenue in subsequent periods in which the assets are managed. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
This section discusses our consolidated results of operations for 2013 compared to 2012, and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included under Item 8 of this 
Form 10-K.  A comparison of consolidated results of operations for 2012 with those for 2011 is provided later in this 

Management's Discussion and Analysis under ﬁConsolidated Results of Operations - Comparison of 2012 and 

2011.ﬂ 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
54TOTAL REVENUE
Years Ended December 31,201320122011
% Change2013 vs. 2012(Dollars in millions)Fee revenue:Servicing fees$4,819
$4,414$4,3829%
Management fees1,10699391711
Trading services:Foreign exchange trading58951168315
Brokerage and other trading services472499537(5)
Total trading services1,0611,0101,2205
Securities finance359405378(11)
Processing fees and other245266297(8)
Total fee revenue7,5907,0887,1947
Net interest revenue:   Interest revenue2,7143,0142,946(10)
   Interest expense411476613(14)
Net interest revenue2,3032,5382,333(9)
Gains (losses) related to investment securities, net(9)2367
Total revenue$9,884
$9,649$9,5942
Our broad range of services generates fee revenue and net interest revenue. Fee revenue generated by our investment servicing and investment management businesses is augmented by trading services, securities finance 
and processing fees and other revenue. We earn net interest revenue from client deposits and short-term 

investment activities by providing deposit services and short-term investment vehicles, such as repurchase 
agreements and corporate commercial paper, to meet clients' needs for high-grade liquid investments, and investing 

these sources of funds and additional borrowings in assets yielding a higher rate. Fee RevenueServicing and management fees collectively composed approximately 78% of our total fee revenue for 2013, compared to 76% for 2012.  The level of these fees is influenced by several factors, including the mix and volume of 

our assets under custody and administration and our assets under management, the value and type of securities 
positions held (with respect to assets under custody) and the volume of portfolio transactions, and the types of 
products and services used by our clients, and is generally affected by changes in worldwide equity and fixed-

income security valuations and trends in market asset class preferences.  Generally, servicing fees are affected by changes in daily average valuations of assets under custody and 
administration.  Additional factors, such as the relative mix of assets serviced, the level of transaction volumes, 

changes in service level, the nature of services provided, balance credits, client minimum balances, pricing 
concessions and other factors, may have a significant effect on our servicing fee revenue. 
Generally, management fees are affected by changes in month-end valuations of assets under management.
  Management fees for certain components of managed assets, such as ETFs, are affected by daily average 

valuations of assets under management.  Management fee revenue is relatively more sensitive to market valuations 
than servicing fee revenue, since a higher proportion of the underlying services provided, and the associated 
management fees earned, are dependent on equity and fixed-income security valuations.  Additional factors, such 

as the relative mix of assets managed, changes in service level and other factors, may have a significant effect on 

our management fee revenue.  While certain management fees are directly determined by the values of assets 
under management and the investment strategies employed, management fees reflect other factors as well, 
including our relationship pricing for clients using multiple services.  Management fees for actively managed products are generally earned at higher rates than those for passive products.  Actively-managed products may also involve performance fee arrangements.  Performance fees are 

generated when the performance of certain managed funds exceeds benchmarks specified in the management MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
55agreements.  Generally, we experience more volatility with performance fees than with more traditional 

management fees. In light of the above, we estimate, using relevant information as of December 31, 2013 and assuming that all other factors remain constant, that: (1) a 10% increase or decrease, over the relevant periods on and for which our 
servicing and management fees are calculated, in worldwide equity valuations would result in a corresponding 
change in our total revenue of approximately 2%; and (2) a 10% increase or decrease, over the relevant periods on 
and for which our servicing and management fees are calculated, in worldwide fixed-income security valuations 
would result in a corresponding change of approximately 1% in our total revenue. The following table presents selected equity market indices.  While the specific indices presented are indicative of general market trends, the asset types and classes relevant to individual client portfolios can and do 
differ, and the performance of associated relevant indices can therefore differ from the performance of the indices 

presented.Daily averages and the averages of month-end indices demonstrate worldwide changes in equity markets that affect our servicing and management fee revenue.  Year-end indices affect the values of assets under custody and 

administration and assets under management as of those dates.  The index names listed in the table are service 

marks of their respective owners. INDEX Daily Averages of IndicesAverages of Month-End IndicesYear-End Indices
 20132012% Change20132012% Change20132012% Change
S&P 500
®1,6441,37919%
1,6521,38719%
1,8481,42630%
NASDAQ®3,5412,96619
3,5752,98420
4,1773,02038
MSCI EAFE®1,7461,48917
1,7541,49917
1,9161,60419
FEE REVENUEYears Ended December 31,201320122011
% Change2013 vs. 2012(Dollars in millions)Servicing fees$4,819
$4,414$4,3829%
Management fees1,10699391711
Trading services:
   Foreign exchange trading58951168315
   Brokerage and other trading services472499537(5)
   Total trading services1,0611,0101,2205
Securities finance359405378(11)
Processing fees and other245266297(8)
Total fee revenue$7,590
$7,088$7,1947
Servicing FeesServicing fees include fee revenue from U.S. mutual funds, collective investment funds worldwide, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies, foundations, endowments, and other investment pools. Products 
and services include custody; product- and participant-level accounting; daily pricing and administration; master 
trust and master custody; record-keeping; cash management; investment manager and alternative investment 
manager operations outsourcing; and performance, risk and compliance analytics. The 9% increase in servicing fees for 2013 compared to 2012 primarily resulted from stronger global equity markets, the impact of net new business installed on current-period revenue and the addition of revenue from the 
October 2012 GSAS acquisition.  The combined daily averages of equity market indices, individually presented in 

the foregoing ﬁINDEXﬂ table, increased approximately 19% for 2013 compared to 2012. For both 2013 and 2012, 
servicing fees generated outside the U.S. were approximately 42% of total servicing fees. The following tables present the components, financial instrument mix and geographic mix of assets under custody and administration, as of the dates indicated:MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
56COMPONENTS OF ASSETS UNDER CUSTODY AND ADMINISTRATION
As of December 31,20132012201120102009
2012-2013AnnualGrowthRate2009-2013CompoundAnnualGrowth Rate(Dollars in billions)Mutual funds$6,811$5,852$5,265$5,540$4,73416%10%
Collective funds6,4285,3634,4374,3503,580
2016
Pension products5,8515,3394,8374,7264,395
107
Insurance and other products8,3377,8177,2686,9116,086
78Total$27,427
$24,371$21,807$21,527$18,7951310
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT MIX OF ASSETS UNDER CUSTODY AND ADMINISTRATION
 As of December 31,20132012201120102009
2012-2013AnnualGrowthRate2009-2013CompoundAnnualGrowth Rate(Dollars in billions)Equities$15,050
$12,276$10,849$11,000$8,82823%14%
Fixed-income9,0728,8858,3177,8757,236
26Short-term and other investments3,3053,2102,6412,6522,731
35Total$27,427
$24,371$21,807$21,527$18,7951310
GEOGRAPHIC MIX OF ASSETS UNDER CUSTODY AND ADMINISTRATION
(1)As of December 31,20132012201120102009
(In billions)North America$20,764$18,463$16,368$16,486$15,191Europe/Middle East/Africa5,5114,8014,4004,0692,773
Asia/Pacific1,1521,1071,039972831
Total Assets Under Custody and Administration$
27,427$24,371$21,807$21,527$18,795(1) Geographic mix is based on the location at which the assets are serviced.The increase in total assets under custody and administration from year-end 2012 to year-end 2013 primarily resulted from stronger global equity markets and net client cash inflows, as well as net new business installations.  
Asset levels as of December 31, 2013 did not reflect $158 billion of new business in assets to be serviced awarded 
to us in 2013 but not installed prior to December 31, 2013.  This new business will be reflected in assets under 

custody and administration in future periods after installation, and will generate servicing fee revenue in subsequent 
periods. The value of assets under custody and administration is a broad measure of the relative size of various markets served. Changes in the values of assets under custody and administration from period to period do not 
necessarily result in proportional changes in our servicing fee revenue. Management FeesThrough SSgA, we provide a broad range of investment management strategies, specialized investment management advisory services and other financial services for corporations, public funds, and other sophisticated 
investors.  SSgA offers a broad array of investment management strategies, including passive and active, such as 

enhanced indexing, using quantitative and fundamental methods for both U.S. and global equity and fixed-income 
securities.  SSgA also offers ETFs, such as the SPDR
® ETF brand.  While certain management fees are directly determined by the values of assets under management and the investment strategies employed, management fees 
reflect other factors as well, including our relationship pricing for clients who use multiple services, and the 
benchmarks specified in the respective management agreements related to performance fees.MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
57The 11% increase in management fees for 2013 compared to 2012 primarily resulted from stronger equity 
markets and the impact of net new business installed on current-period revenue.  Combined average daily and 
average month-end equity market indices, individually presented in the foregoing ﬁINDEXﬂ table, increased 
approximately 19% compared to 2012.  Management fees generated outside the U.S. were approximately 36% of 
total management fees for 2013 compared to 37% for 2012.  The following tables present assets under management by asset class and investment approach, ETFs by asset class, and the geographic mix of assets under management, as of the dates indicated:  ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT BY ASSET CLASS AND INVESTMENT APPROACH
(1)As of December 31,20132012201120102009
2012-2013AnnualGrowthRate2009-2013CompoundAnnualGrowth Rate(Dollars in billions)Equity:   Active$42$45$46$54$68(7)%
(11)%   Passive1,3341,047893912695
2718
Total Equity1,3761,092939966763
2616
Fixed-Income:   Active1617161421(6)(7)
   Passive311325271373433
(4)(8)
Total Fixed-Income327342287387454
(4)(8)
Cash(2)385369380422508
4(7)
Multi-Asset-Class Solutions:   Active2323151611Š20
   Passive11094707093174
Total Multi-Asset-Class Solutions1331178586
104146
Alternative Investments(3):   Active1418171211
(22)6   Passive110148137137111(26
)ŠTotal Alternative Investments124166154149122(25
)ŠTotal Assets Under Management$
2,345$2,086$1,845$2,010$1,951125
(1)  As of December 31, 2013, the presentation has been changed to align with the reporting of core businesses.  Amounts previously 
reported have been adjusted for comparative purposes.(2)  Includes both floating- and constant-net-asset-value portfolios held in commingled structures or separate accounts.(3)  Includes real estate investment trusts, currency and commodities, including SPDR® Gold Fund for which State Street is not the investment manager, but acts as distribution agent.  The decline in this asset class as of December 31, 2013 compared to December 31, 2012
 mainly resulted from net outflows from the SPDR® Gold Fund related to lower average gold prices. EXCHANGE-TRADED FUNDS BY ASSET CLASS
(1)As of December 31,20132012201120102009
2012-2013AnnualGrowthRate2009-2013CompoundAnnualGrowth Rate(Dollars in billions)Alternative Investments$39
$79$68$61$43
(51)%(2)%
Cash11211ŠŠ
Equity325227184175152
4321
Fixed-Income3430201591339
Total Exchange-Traded Funds$399
$337$274$252$2051818
(1) Exchange-traded funds are a component of assets under management presented above.MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
58GEOGRAPHIC MIX OF ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT
(1)As of December 31,20132012201120102009
(In billions)
North America$1,456$1,288$1,190$1,332$1,272Europe/Middle East/Africa560480428452479
Asia/Pacific329318227226200
Total Assets Under Management$
2,345$2,086$1,845$2,010$1,951(1) Geographic mix is based on client location or fund management location.The increase in total assets under management from year-end 2012 to year-end 2013 resulted from stronger global equity market valuations, partly offset by net lost business of $5 billion.  The net lost business of 

approximately $5 billion was generally composed of $34 billion of net outflows from alternative investments, partly 
offset by net inflows of $13 billion into managed cash, net inflows of $6 billion into equities, net inflows of $4 billion 

into multi-asset-class solutions and net inflows of $3 billion each into fixed-income and securities lending funds. The following table presents activity in assets under management for the years ended December 31:ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENTYears Ended December 31,201320122011
(In billions)Balance at beginning of year$2,086
$1,845$2,010
Net new (lost) business(5)
112(30)
Sales of U.S. Treasury portfolio of asset-backed securities
(1)Š(31)(125)
Assets added from Bank of Ireland Asset Management acquisitionŠŠ23
Market appreciation (depreciation)264160(33)
Balance at end of year$2,345
$2,086$1,845
(1) Amounts were associated with the U.S. Treasury's winding down of its portfolio of agency-guaranteed mortgage-backed securities.
 The net lost business of $5 billion for 2013 presented in the table did not include $13 billion of new asset management business awarded to SSgA in 2013 but not installed prior to December 31, 2013.  This new business 

will be reflected in assets under management in future periods after installation, and will generate management fee 
revenue in subsequent periods.  Total assets under management as of December 31, 2013 included managed 

assets lost but not yet liquidated.  Lost business occurs from time to time and it is difficult to predict the timing of 

client behavior in transitioning these assets.  This timing can vary significantly.
Trading Services
The following table summarizes the components of trading services revenue for the years ended December 31:Years Ended December 31,201320122011
% Change2013 vs. 2012(Dollars in millions)Foreign exchange trading:   Direct sales and trading$304
$263$35216%
   Indirect foreign exchange trading28524833115
   Total foreign exchange trading58951168315
Brokerage and other trading services:   Electronic foreign exchange trading23321024911
   Other trading, transition management and brokerage239289288(17)
   Total brokerage and other trading services472499537(5)
Total trading services revenue$1,061
$1,010$1,2205
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
59Trading services revenue is composed of revenue generated by foreign exchange, or FX, trading, as well as 
revenue generated by brokerage and other trading services.  We earn FX trading revenue by acting as a principal 

market maker. We offer a range of FX products, services and execution models.  Most of our FX products and 

execution services can be grouped into three broad categories, which are further explained below: ﬁdirect sales and 
trading FX,ﬂ ﬁindirect FXﬂ and ﬁelectronic FX trading.ﬂ  With respect to electronic FX trading, we provide an execution 
venue but do not act as agent or principal.  We also offer a range of brokerage and other trading products tailored specifically to meet the needs of the 
global pension community, including transition management and commission recapture.  In addition, we act as 

distribution agent for the SPDR® Gold ETF.  These products and services are differentiated by our position as an 
agent of the institutional investor.  Revenue earned from these brokerage and other trading products and services is 

recorded in other trading, transition management and brokerage within brokerage and other trading services 
revenue. FX trading revenue is influenced by three principal factors: the volume and type of client FX transactions; currency volatility; and the management of market risk associated with currencies and interest rates.  Revenue 
earned from direct sales and trading FX and indirect FX is recorded in FX trading revenue.  Revenue earned from 
electronic FX trading is recorded in brokerage and other trading services revenue. The 5% increase in total trading services revenue for 2013 compared to 2012, composed of separate changes related to FX trading and brokerage and other trading services, is explained below.  
Total FX trading revenue increased 15% compared to 2012, primarily the result of higher client volumes, 
currency volatility and spreads.  We enter into FX transactions with clients and investment managers that contact our trading desk directly. 
These trades are all executed at negotiated rates. We refer to this activity, and our principal market-making 

activities, as ﬁdirect sales and trading FX.ﬂ  Alternatively, clients or their investment managers may elect to route FX 

transactions to our FX desk through our asset-servicing operation; we refer to this activity as ﬁindirect FX.ﬂ  We 

execute indirect FX trades as a principal at rates disclosed to our clients. We calculate revenue for indirect FX using 

an attribution methodology based on estimated effective mark-ups/downs and observed client volumes.  All other 

FX trading revenue, other than this indirect FX revenue estimate, is considered by us to be direct sales and trading 
FX revenue.  Our clients that utilize indirect FX can, in addition to executing their FX transactions through dealers 
not affiliated with us, transition from indirect FX to either direct sales and trading FX execution, including our ﬁStreet 

FXﬂ service that enables our clients to define their FX execution strategy and automate the FX trade execution 
process, in which State Street continues to act as a principal market maker, or to one of our electronic trading 

platforms.  For 2013 compared to 2012, our estimated indirect FX revenue increased 15%, while our direct sales and trading FX revenue increased 16%.  The increases in both comparisons mainly resulted from higher client volumes, 

currency volatility and spreads.  We continue to expect that some clients may choose, over time, to reduce their level of indirect FX 
transactions in favor of other execution methods, including either direct FX transactions or electronic FX trading 
which we provide.  To the extent that clients shift to other execution methods that we provide, our FX trading 

revenue may decrease, even if volumes remain consistent.   Total brokerage and other trading services revenue declined 5% for 2013 compared to 2012.  Our clients may 
choose to execute FX transactions through one of our electronic trading platforms.  This service generates revenue 

through a ﬁclickﬂ fee.  For 2013 compared to 2012, our revenue from such electronic FX trading increased 11%, 

mainly due to increases in client volumes.  Our revenue for 2013 from other trading, transition management and brokerage revenue declined 17% compared to 2012.  The decrease mainly resulted from a decline in distribution fees associated with the SPDR
® Gold ETF, which resulted from lower average gold prices and net outflows from the SPDR
® Gold ETF, and a decline 
in transition management revenue.  With respect to the SPDR® Gold ETF, fees earned by us as distribution agent 
are recorded in other trading, transition management and brokerage revenue within brokerage and other trading 
services revenue, and not in management fee revenue.  Our revenue from transition management, recorded in 
brokerage and other trading services revenue, and related expenses in 2013 and 2012 were adversely affected by 

compliance issues in our U.K. business, the reputational and regulatory impact of which may continue to adversely 
affect our transition management revenue in future periods. 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
60Securities FinanceOur agency securities finance business consists of two principal components: an agency lending program for SSgA-managed investment funds with a broad range of investment objectives, which we refer to as the SSgA 

lending funds, and an agency lending program for third-party investment managers and asset owners, which we 
refer to as the agency lending funds. Our securities finance business provides liquidity to the financial markets, as well as an effective means for 
clients to earn incremental revenue on their securities portfolios. By acting as a lending agent and coordinating 
loans between lenders and borrowers, we lend securities and provide liquidity to clients worldwide. Borrowers 
provide collateral in the form of cash or securities to State Street in return for loaned securities. Borrowers are 
generally required to provide collateral equal to a contractually-agreed percentage equal to or in excess of the fair 
value of the loaned securities. As the fair value of the loaned securities changes, additional collateral is provided by 

the borrower or collateral is returned to the borrower. Such movements are typically referred to as daily mark-to-

market collateral adjustments.  We also participate in securities lending transactions as a principal.  As principal, we borrow securities from 
the lending client and then lend such securities to the subsequent borrower, either a State Street client or a broker/

dealer. Our involvement as principal is utilized when the lending client is unable to, or elects not to, transact directly 

with the market and requires us to execute the transaction and furnish the securities. In our role as principal, we 
provide support to the transaction through our credit rating, and we have the ability to source securities through our 
assets under custody and administration. For cash collateral, our clients pay a usage fee to the provider of the cash collateral, and we invest the cash collateral in certain investment vehicles or managed accounts as directed by the owner of the loaned securities. In 
some cases, the investment vehicles or managed accounts may be managed by SSgA. The spread between the 

yield on the investment vehicle and the usage fee paid to the provider of the collateral is split between the lender of 
the securities and State Street as agent. For non-cash collateral, the borrower pays a fee for the loaned securities, 
and the fee is split between the lender of the securities and State Street.Securities finance revenue earned from our agency lending activities, which is composed of our split of both the spreads related to cash collateral and the fees related to non-cash collateral, is principally a function of the 
volume of securities on loan, the interest-rate spreads and fees earned on the underlying collateral, and our share 
of the fee split.  Securities finance revenue for 2013 compared to 2012 declined 11%.  The decline was mainly due 

to lower spreads and a slight decline in average lending volumes.  Average spreads declined 17% for 2013 

compared to 2012.  Securities on loan averaged approximately $319 billion for 2013 compared to approximately 
$323 billion for 2012, a 1% decline.Market influences may continue to affect client demand for securities finance, and as a result our revenue 
from, and the profitability of, our securities lending activities in future periods.  In addition, proposed or anticipated 
regulatory changes may affect the volume of our securities lending activity and related revenue and profitability in 

future periods.Processing Fees and OtherProcessing fees and other revenue includes diverse types of fees and revenue, including fees from our structured products business, fees from software licensing and maintenance, equity income from our joint venture 
investments, gains and losses on sales of leased equipment and other assets, and amortization of our tax-
advantaged investments.  Processing fees and other revenue for 2013 compared to 2012 declined 8%.  The decline 

was primarily due to the absence of both the fair-value adjustments related to our withdrawal from our fixed-income 
trading initiative and the gain from the sale of a Lehman Brothers-related asset, both recorded in 2012, as well as 
hedge ineffectiveness recorded in 2013.  The decline in processing fees and other revenue was partly offset by an 

increase in revenue associated with our investment in bank-owned life insurance for 2013 compared to 2012.MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
61NET INTEREST REVENUENet interest revenue is defined as interest revenue earned on interest-earning assets less interest expense incurred on interest-bearing liabilities. Interest-earning assets, which principally consist of investment securities, 
interest-bearing deposits with banks, repurchase agreements, loans and leases and other liquid assets, are 
financed primarily by client deposits, short-term borrowings and long-term debt. Net interest margin represents the 
relationship between fully taxable-equivalent net interest revenue and average total interest-earning assets for the 
period. Revenue that is exempt from income taxes, mainly that earned from certain investment securities (state and 
political subdivisions), is adjusted to a fully taxable-equivalent basis using a federal statutory income tax rate of 
35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes, net of the related federal tax benefit. The following table presents the components of average interest-earning assets and average interest-bearing liabilities, related interest revenue and interest expense, and rates earned and paid, for the years indicated:Years Ended December 31,201320122011
Average
BalanceInterestRevenue/ExpenseRate
Average
BalanceInterestRevenue/ExpenseRate
AverageBalanceInterestRevenue/ExpenseRate
(Dollars in millions; fully taxable-
equivalent basis)Interest-bearing deposits with banks$28,946$125.43%
$26,823$
141.53%$20,241$149.74%
Securities purchased under resaleagreements5,76645
.777,24351.714,68628.61
Trading account assets748ŠŠ
651ŠŠ2,013ŠŠ
Investment securities117,6962,4292.06
113,9102,6902.36
103,0752,615
2.54Loans and leases13,781253
1.8411,6102532.19
12,180280
2.30Other interest-earning assets11,1644.04
7,3783.045,4622.03
Average total interest-earning assets$178,101$
2,8561.60
$167,615$
3,1381.88
$147,657$3,074
2.08Interest-bearing deposits:U.S.$8,862$10.12%$9,333$19.20%$4,049$11.27%
Non-U.S.100,39183.0889,059147.1684,011209.25
Securities sold under repurchase agreements8,4361.01
7,6971.019,04010.11
Federal funds purchased298ŠŠ
7841.09845ŠŠ
Other short-term borrowings3,785591.57
4,67671
1.525,13486
1.67Long-term debt8,4152322.757,0082223.17
8,966289
3.22Other interest-bearing liabilities6,45726
.405,89815.263,5358.24
Average total interest-bearing liabilities$136,644$411.30
$124,455$
476.39$115,580$613.53
Interest-rate spread1.30%1.49%1.55%Net interest revenueŠfully taxable-equivalentbasis$2,445$2,662$2,461
Net interest marginŠfully taxable-equivalentbasis1.37%1.59%1.67%Tax-equivalent adjustment(142)(124)(128)
Net interest revenueŠGAAP basis$2,303$2,538$2,333
For 2013 compared to 2012, average total interest-earning assets increased, mainly the result of the investment of higher levels of client deposits in purchases of investment securities as well as in interest-bearing 
deposits with banks.  During the past year, our clients have continued to place elevated levels of deposits with us, 

as low global interest rates have made deposits attractive relative to other investment options.  Those client 

deposits determined to be transient in nature have been placed with various central banks globally, whereas 

deposits determined to be more stable have been invested in our investment securities portfolio or elsewhere to 
support growth in other client-related activities.  Average loans and leases were higher for 2013 compared to 2012 due primarily to growth in mutual fund 
lending.  Higher levels of cash collateral provided in connection with our role as principal in certain securities finance activities drove other interest-earning assets higher as this business grew.  While these securities finance 

activities support our overall profitability by generating securities finance revenue, they put downward pressure on 
our net interest margin. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
62Net interest revenue for 2013 declined 9%, and on a fully taxable-equivalent basis declined 8%, compared to 2012.  The decreases were primarily due to the impact of lower yields on interest-earning assets related to lower 

global interest rates, partly offset by lower funding costs.  The decrease also reflected the continued impact of the 

reinvestment of pay-downs on existing investment securities in lower-yielding investment securities.  These 

decreases in net interest revenue were partly offset by the impact of growth in the investment portfolio on an 

average basis year over year.
Subsequent to the commercial paper conduit consolidation in 2009, we have recorded aggregate discount accretion in interest revenue of $1.91 billion ($621 million in 2009, $712 million in 2010, $220 million in 2011, $215 

million in 2012 and $137 million in 2013). The timing and ultimate recognition of any applicable discount accretion 

depends, in part, on factors that are outside of our control, including anticipated prepayment speeds and credit 
quality. The impact of these factors is uncertain and can be significantly influenced by general economic and 

financial market conditions. The timing and recognition of any applicable discount accretion can also be influenced 

by our ongoing management of the risks and other characteristics associated with our investment securities 
portfolio, including sales of securities which would otherwise generate accretion. Depending on the factors discussed above, among others, we anticipate that, until the former conduit securities remaining in our investment portfolio mature or are sold, discount accretion will continue to contribute, 
though in declining amounts, to our net interest revenue.  Assuming that we hold the remaining former conduit 

securities to maturity, all else being equal, we expect the remaining former conduit securities carried in our 

investment portfolio as of December 31, 2013 to generate aggregate discount accretion in future periods of 
approximately $572 million over their remaining terms, with approximately half of this aggregate discount accretion 
to be recorded over the next four years. Changes in the components of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities are discussed in more detail below. Additional detail about the components of interest revenue and interest expense is provided in note 18 

to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Interest-bearing deposits with banks, which include cash balances maintained at the Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank and other non-U.S. central banks to satisfy reserve requirements, averaged $28.95 billion 
for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to $26.82 billion for the year ended December 31, 2012, 
reflecting the impact of the placement of elevated levels of client deposits.  Certain client deposits were determined to be transient in nature and were placed with various central banks globally.  In 2013, we diversified our investment 

of these elevated client deposits, in part, through purchases of investment securities.  If client deposits remain at or 
close to current elevated levels, we expect to continue to invest client deposits in either money market assets, 
including central bank deposits, or in investment securities, depending on our assessment of the underlying 
characteristics of the deposits. AAverage investment securities increased to $117.70 billion for the year ended December 31, 2013 from 
$113.91 billion for the year ended December 31, 2012.  The increase was generally the result of ongoing purchases 

of securities, partly offset by maturities, sales and pay-downs.  Period-end portfolio balances are more significantly 

influenced by the timing of purchases, sales and runoff; as a result, average portfolio balances are a more effective 

indication of trends in portfolio activity.  Detail with respect to the investment portfolio as of December 31, 2013 and 

2012 is provided in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  As of 

December 31, 2013, investment securities rated ﬁAAAﬂ and ﬁAAﬂ represented approximately 89% of our investment 
portfolio, consistent with the composition of our portfolio as of December 31, 2012.  Loans and leases averaged $13.78 billion for the year ended December 31, 2013, compared to $11.61 billion 
for the year ended December 31, 2012.  The increase was mainly related to mutual fund lending, which averaged 

$7.61 billion for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to $5.59 billion for the year ended December 31, 
2012.  The proportion of average short-duration liquidity to our average loan-and-lease portfolio declined to 

approximately 27% for the year ended December 31, 2013 from approximately 29% for the year ended December 
31, 2012.  Short-duration advances provide liquidity to clients in support of their investment activities related to 
securities settlement.  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
63The following table presents average U.S. and non-U.S. short-duration advances for the years ended December 31: Years Ended December 31,(In millions)201320122011
Average U.S. short-duration advances$2,356
$1,972$1,994
Average non-U.S. short-duration advances1,3931,3931,585
Average total short-duration advances$3,749
$3,365$3,579
Although average short-duration advances for the year ended December 31, 2013 increased compared to the year ended December 31, 2012, such average advances remained low relative to historical levels, mainly the result 
of clients continuing to hold higher levels of liquidity. 
Average other interest-earning assets increased to $11.16 billion for the year ended December 31, 2013 from 
$7.38 billion for the year ended December 31, 2012.  The increased levels were primarily the result of higher levels 

of cash collateral provided in connection with our participation in principal securities finance transactions. Aggregate average interest-bearing deposits increased to $109.25 billion for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $98.39 billion for the year ended December 31, 2012.  This increase was mainly due to higher levels of 

non-U.S. transaction accounts associated with the growth of new and existing business in assets under custody and 
administration.  Future transaction account levels will be influenced by the underlying asset servicing business, as 
well as market conditions, including the general levels of U.S. and non-U.S. interest rates.   Average other short-term borrowings declined to $3.79 billion for the year ended December 31, 2013 from 
$4.68 billion for the year ended December 31, 2012, as higher levels of client deposits provided additional liquidity.  

Average long-term debt increased to $8.42 billion for the year ended December 31, 2013 from $7.01 billion for the 

year ended December 31, 2012.  The increase primarily reflected the issuance of $1.0 billion of extendible notes by 

State Street Bank in December 2012, the issuance of $1.5 billion of senior and subordinated debt in May 2013, and 
the issuance of $1.0 billion of senior debt in November 2013.  This increase was partly offset by maturities of $1.75 

billion of senior debt in the second quarter of 2012. Average other interest-bearing liabilities increased to $6.46 billion for the year ended December 31, 2013 from 
$5.90 billion for the year ended December 31, 2012, primarily the result of higher levels of cash collateral received 
from clients in connection with our participation in principal securities finance transactions. Several factors could affect future levels of our net interest revenue and margin, including the mix of client 
liabilities; actions of various central banks; changes in U.S. and non-U.S. interest rates; changes in the various yield 
curves around the world; revised or proposed regulatory capital or liquidity standards, or interpretations of those 
standards; the amount of discount accretion generated by the former conduit securities that remain in our 
investment securities portfolio; and the yields earned on securities purchased compared to the yields earned on 
securities sold or matured. Based on market conditions and other factors, we continue to reinvest the majority of the proceeds from pay-downs and maturities of investment securities in highly-rated securities, such as U.S. Treasury and agency 

securities, federal agency mortgage-backed securities and U.S. and non-U.S. mortgage- and asset-backed 
securities. The pace at which we continue to reinvest and the types of investment securities purchased will depend 

on the impact of market conditions and other factors over time.  We expect these factors and the levels of global 

interest rates to dictate what effect our reinvestment program will have on future levels of our net interest revenue 

and net interest margin.  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
64Gains (Losses) Related to Investment Securities, NetThe following table presents net realized gains from sales of available-for-sale securities and the components of net impairment losses, included in net gains and losses related to investment securities, for the years indicated:Years Ended December 31,20132012
(In millions)Net realized gains from sales of available-for-sale securities$14
$55
Losses from other-than-temporary impairment(21)(53)Losses reclassified (from) to other comprehensive income(2)
21Net impairment losses recognized in consolidated statement of income(23)(32)Gains (losses) related to investment securities, net$(9)
$23
Impairment associated with expected credit losses$(11)
$(16)
Impairment associated with management™s intent to sell impaired securities prior to recoveryin value(6)
ŠImpairment associated with adverse changes in timing of expected future cash flows(6)
(16)Net impairment losses recognized in consolidated statement of income$(23)
$(32)
From time to time, in connection with our ongoing management of our investment securities portfolio, we sell available-for-sale securities to manage risk, to take advantage of favorable market conditions, or for other reasons.  
In 2013 and 2012, we sold approximately $10.26 billion and $5.35 billion, respectively, of such investment securities 

and recorded net realized gains of $14 million and $55 million, respectively, as presented in the table above.    
The net realized gains recorded in 2012 reflected a realized loss of $46 million from the second-quarter sale of all of our Greek investment securities, which had an aggregate carrying value of approximately $91 million.  These 

securities, which were previously classified as held to maturity, were sold as a result of the effect of significant 

deterioration in the creditworthiness of the underlying collateral, including significant downgrades of the securities' 
external credit ratings.We regularly review our investment securities portfolio to identify other-than-temporary impairment of 
individual securities.  Additional information about investment securities, the gross gains and losses that compose 

the net gains from sales of securities and other-than-temporary impairment is provided in note 4 to the consolidated 
financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.PROVISION FOR LOAN LOSSESWe recorded a provision for loan losses of $6 million in 2013, compared to a negative provision of $3 million in 
2012. The 2013 provision resulted from our exposure to non-investment-grade borrowers composed of senior 

secured bank loans, which we purchased in connection with our participation in loan syndications in the non-
investment-grade lending market beginning in 2013.  Additional information about these senior secured bank loans 

is provided under ﬁFinancial Condition - Loans and Leasesﬂ in this Management's Discussion and Analysis, and in 

note 5 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
65EXPENSESThe following table presents the components of expenses for the years indicated:Years Ended December 31,201320122011
% Change2013 vs. 2012(Dollars in millions)Compensation and employee benefits$3,800
$3,837$3,820(1)%
Information systems and communications93584477611
Transaction processing services7337027324
Occupancy467470455(1)
Claims resolutionŠ(362)Š
Acquisition costs762616
Restructuring charges, net28199253
Other:Professional services3923813473
Amortization of other intangible assets2141982008
Securities processing costs (recoveries)5224(6)
Regulatory fees and assessments726153
Other423506412(16)
Total other1,1531,1701,006(1)
Total expenses$7,192
$6,886$7,0584
Number of employees at year-end29,43029,66029,740
Expenses Total expenses for 2013 increased 4% compared to 2012.  Expenses for both years included credits related to 
gains and recoveries associated with Lehman Brothers matters, as follows:Ł Aggregate credits of $85 million recorded in other expenses for 2013, presented in ﬁotherﬂ in the table 
above, related to gains and recoveries associated with Lehman Brothers-related assets;Ł Credit of $362 million for 2012, presented separately in the table above, composed of recoveries associated 
with the 2008 Lehman Brothers bankruptcy; andŁ Aggregate credits of $30 million recorded in other expenses for 2012, composed of $16 million presented in 
ﬁsecurities processing costs (recoveries)ﬂ and $14 million presented in ﬁotherﬂ in the table above, related to 
litigation and other settlement recoveries associated with Lehman Brothers-related matters.       Excluding the credits described above, total expenses for 2013 of $7.28 billion ($7.19 billion plus $85 million) were essentially flat compared to expenses for 2012 of $7.28 billion ($6.89 billion plus $362 million and $30 million).  The 1% decline in compensation and employee benefits expenses for 2013 compared to 2012 primarily resulted from lower staffing levels, including savings related to the implementation of our Business Operations and 

Information Technology Transformation program, and lower benefit costs, partly offset by expenses to support new 

business and acquisitions and higher incentive compensation.  Compensation and employee benefits expenses for 
2013 included approximately $84 million of costs related to the implementation of our Business Operations and 
Information Technology Transformation program, compared to approximately $90 million for 2012.  These costs are 

not expected to recur subsequent to full implementation of the program.The 11% increase in information systems and communications expenses for 2013 compared to 2012 was 
primarily the result of the planned transition of certain functions to third-party service providers associated with 
components of our technology infrastructure and application maintenance and support, as part of the Business 
Operations and Information Technology Transformation program, as well as costs to support new business.
Additional information with respect to the impact of the Business Operations and Information Technology 
Transformation program on future compensation and employee benefits and information systems and 

communications expenses is provided in the following ﬁRestructuring Chargesﬂ section. The 4% increase in transaction processing services expenses for 2013 compared to 2012 generally reflected higher equity market values and higher transaction volumes in the asset servicing business. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
66The decline in aggregate other expenses (professional services, amortization of other intangible assets, securities processing costs (recoveries), regulatory fees and assessments and other) for 2013 compared to 2012 
was mainly the result of the above-described credits of $85 million related to gains and recoveries associated with 
Lehman Brothers-related assets.  Excluding these credits from other expenses for 2013, and excluding the above-
described credits of $14 million from other expenses for 2012, other expenses for 2013 of $1.24 billion ($1.15 billion 
plus $85 million) increased 5% compared to other expenses of $1.18 billion ($1.17 billion plus $14 million) for 2012. 
The ﬁotherﬂ category of other expenses was down 2% for 2013 to $508 million ($423 million plus $85 million) from  
$520 million ($506 million plus $14 million) in 2012.  The 5% increase in aggregate other expenses to $1.24 billion 

in 2013 from $1.18 billion in 2012 was primarily related to the addition of amortization of other intangible assets 
associated with the GSAS acquisition, completed in October 2012, and securities processing costs and fines 
associated with regulatory matters in our U.K. transition management business.  Additional information about this transition management matter is provided under ﬁLegal and Regulatory Mattersﬂ in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 
Claims ResolutionAs a result of the 2008 Lehman Brothers bankruptcy, we had various claims against Lehman Brothers entities 
in bankruptcy proceedings in the U.S. and the U.K. We also had amounts asserted as owed, or return obligations, to 

Lehman Brothers entities.  The various claims and amounts owed arose from transactions that existed at the time 

Lehman Brothers entered bankruptcy, including prime brokerage arrangements, foreign exchange transactions, 

securities lending arrangements and repurchase agreements.  In 2011, we reached an agreement with certain 

Lehman Brothers estates in the U.S. to resolve the value of deficiency claims arising out of indemnified repurchase 
transactions in the U.S., and the bankruptcy court allowed those claims in the amount of $400 million.  In September 2012, we reached an agreement to settle the claims against the Lehman Brothers estate in the U.K. related to the close-out of securities lending and repurchase arrangements.  This settlement resulted in a 

return obligation for us and a certified claim against the Lehman Brothers estate, and resolved the contingent nature 
of our rights and obligations with the Lehman Brothers estate. In connection with our resolution of the indemnified repurchase and securities lending claims in the U.S. and the U.K., we recognized a credit of approximately $362 million in our consolidated statement of income in 2012.  
Both certified claims retained as part of the settlement agreements were subsequently sold at their respective fair 
values, resulting in an additional gain of approximately $10 million, which was also recorded in our consolidated 
statement of income in 2012.In 2013, we received aggregate distributions totaling approximately $186 million from the Lehman Brothers estates.   Of the aggregate distributions received, $101 million was applied to reduce remaining Lehman Brothers-
related assets, primarily prime brokerage claim-related receivables, recorded in our consolidated statement of 
condition; the remaining $85 million was recorded as an aggregate credit to other expenses in our consolidated 
statement of income, as described earlier in this ﬁExpensesﬂ section.Acquisition Costs In 2013, we recorded acquisition costs of $76 million, compared to $66 million in 2012, with both amounts related to previously disclosed acquisitions, mainly the 2012 GSAS and 2010 Intesa acquisitions.  The 2012 

acquisition costs were partly offset by an indemnification benefit of $40 million for the assumption of an income tax 

liability related to the 2010 Intesa acquisition.Restructuring Charges Information with respect to our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation program and 
our 2011 and 2012 expense control measures, including charges, employee reductions and aggregate activity in the 

related accruals, is provided in the following sections.    Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program 
In November 2010, we announced a global multi-year Business Operations and Information Technology 
Transformation program.  The program includes operational, information technology and targeted cost initiatives, 

including plans related to reductions in both staff and occupancy costs. 
With respect to our business operations, we are standardizing certain core business processes, primarily through our execution of the State Street Lean methodology, and driving automation of these business processes.  

We are currently creating a new technology platform, including transferring certain core software applications to a 

private cloud, and have expanded our use of third-party service providers associated with components of our MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
67information technology infrastructure and application maintenance and support.  We transferred the majority of our 

core software applications to a private cloud in 2013, and we expect to transfer the remaining core applications in 
2014. To implement this program, we expect to incur aggregate pre-tax restructuring charges of approximately $400 
million to $450 million over the four-year period ending December 31, 2014.  To date, we have recorded aggregate 

restructuring charges of $381 million in our consolidated statement of income, as presented in the following table by 
type of cost: (In millions)Employee-RelatedCostsReal EstateConsolidationInformationTechnology  CostsTotal
2010$105$51$Š$156
201185741133
201227202067
20131313(1)25
Total$230$91$60$381
Employee-related costs included severance, benefits and outplacement services.  Real estate consolidation costs resulted from actions taken to reduce our occupancy costs through the consolidation of leases and properties.  
Information technology costs included transition fees related to the above-described expansion of our use of third-
party service providers. In 2010, in connection with the program, we initiated the involuntary termination of 1,400 employees, or approximately 5% of our global workforce, which we completed by the end of 2011.  In addition, in connection with 

our announcement in 2011 of the expansion of our use of third-party service providers associated with our 

information technology infrastructure and application maintenance and support, as well as the continued execution 
of the business operations transformation component of the program, we identified 1,340 additional involuntary 
terminations and role eliminations, including 376 in 2013.  As of December 31, 2013, we eliminated 1,278 of these 

positions.In connection with the continuing implementation of the program, we achieved incremental pre-tax expense savings of approximately $220 million in 2013, and as previously reported, we achieved incremental pre-tax 
expense savings of approximately $112 million in 2012 and $86 million in 2011, in each case compared to our 2010 

expenses from operations, all else being equal.  Incremental pre-tax expense savings to be achieved in 2014 are 
expected to be approximately $130 million. These pre-tax expense savings relate only to the Business Operations and Information Technology 
Transformation program and are based on projected improvement from our total 2010 expenses from operations, all 

else being equal.  Our actual total expenses have increased since 2010, and may in the future increase or 
decrease, due to other factors.  The majority of the annual savings will affect compensation and employee benefits 

expenses.  These savings will be modestly offset by increases in information systems and communications 

expenses as we implement the program.Excluding the expected aggregate restructuring charges of $400 million to $450 million described earlier, we 
expect the program to reduce our pre-tax expenses from operations, on an annualized basis, by approximately 
$575 million to $625 million by the end of 2014 compared to 2010, all else being equal, with the full effect to be 

realized in 2015.  We expect the business operations transformation component of the program to result in 

approximately $450 million of these savings and the information technology transformation component of the 
program to result in approximately $150 million of these savings.  As of December 31, 2013, we have achieved the 

majority of these savings.MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
682011 Expense Control Measures
 In the fourth quarter of 2011, in connection with expense control measures designed to calibrate our expenses 
to our outlook for our capital markets-facing businesses in 2012, we took two actions.  First, we withdrew from our 
fixed-income trading initiative, in which we traded in fixed-income securities and derivatives as principal with our 
custody clients and other third parties that trade in these securities and derivatives. Second, we undertook other 
targeted staff reductions.  As a result of these actions, we recorded aggregate pre-tax restructuring charges and 

credits of $119 million in our consolidated statement of income, as presented in the following table by type of cost:
(In millions)Employee-RelatedCostsFixed-IncomeTrading PortfolioAsset and OtherWrite-OffsTotal2011$62$38$20$120
20123(9)5(1)

Total$65$29$25$119
Employee-related costs included severance, benefits and outplacement services.  We identified 442 
employees to be involuntarily terminated as their roles were eliminated.  As of December 31, 2013, we completed 

these reductions.  Costs for the fixed-income trading portfolio resulted primarily from fair-value adjustments to the initiative's trading portfolio related to our decision to withdraw from the initiative.  In connection with our withdrawal in 2012, we 

wound down that initiative's remaining trading portfolio.  Costs for asset and other write-offs were related to asset 

write-downs and contract terminations.2012 Expense Control MeasuresIn the fourth quarter of 2012, in connection with expense control measures designed to better align our expenses to our business strategy and related outlook for 2013, we identified additional targeted staff reductions.  

As a result of these actions, we have recorded aggregate pre-tax restructuring charges of $136 million in our 
consolidated statement of income, as presented in the following table by type of cost: (In millions)Employee-RelatedCostsAsset and OtherWrite-OffsTotal2012$129$4$133
2013(4)73
Total$125$11$136
Employee-related costs included severance, benefits and outplacement services.  Costs for asset and other write-offs were primarily related to contract terminations.  We originally identified involuntary terminations and role 

eliminations of 960 employees (630 positions after replacements).  As of December 31, 2013, 782 positions were 

eliminated through voluntary and involuntary terminations.  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
69Aggregate Restructuring-Related Accrual Activity
 The following table presents aggregate activity associated with accruals that resulted from the charges associated with the Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation program and the 2011 and 

2012 expense control measures: (In millions)Employee-RelatedCostsReal EstateConsolidationInformation Technology
CostsFixed-IncomeTradingPortfolioAsset andOtherWrite-OffsTotal
Initial accrual$105$51$Š$Š$Š$156
Payments(15)(4)ŠŠŠ(19)
Balance as of December 31, 20109047ŠŠŠ137
Additional accruals for Business Operations
and Information Technology Transformation
program85741ŠŠ133
Accruals for 2011 expense control measures62ŠŠ3820120
Payments and adjustments(75)(15)(8)Š(5)(103)
Balance as of December 31, 201116239333815287
Additional accruals for Business Operations
and Information Technology Transformation
program272020ŠŠ67
Additional accruals for 2011 expense control
measures3ŠŠ(9)5(1)
Accruals for 2012 expense control measures129ŠŠŠ4133
Payments and adjustments(126)(10)(48)(29)(11)(224)
Balance as of December 31, 2012195495Š13262
Additional accruals for Business Operations
and Information Technology Transformation
program1313(1)ŠŠ25
Additional accruals for 2012 expense control
measures(4)ŠŠŠ73
Payments and adjustments(154)(13)(4)Š(13)(184)
Balance as of December 31, 2013$50$49$Š$Š$7$106
Income Tax Expense
Income tax expense was $550 million in 2013 compared to $705 million in 2012.  Our effective tax rate for 
2013 was 20.5%, compared to 25.5% for 2012.  The decline in the effective tax rate compared to 2012 was mainly 

the result of the out-of-period income tax benefit described below, as well as our expansion of our tax-exempt 

investment securities portfolio and an increase in renewable energy investments.In the fourth quarter of 2013, we completed a multi-year tax data enhancement process, the final stages of which identified a reconciliation difference in our deferred tax accounts, and we determined that our deferred tax 

liabilities were overstated by $50 million and our deferred tax assets were understated by $21 million.  We 

evaluated the qualitative and quantitative effects of the resulting overstatement of income tax expense, and 

concluded that such overstatement did not have a material effect on any prior full-year or quarterly consolidated 

financial statements.  Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 2013, we recorded an adjustment in our consolidated 

statement of income to correct this difference, which resulted in an out-of-period income tax benefit of $71 million.  

Excluding the impact of this $71 million income tax benefit, income tax expense in 2013 would have been $621 
million, compared to $705 million in 2012, and our effective tax rate for 2013 would have been 23.2%, compared to 

25.5% for 2012.LINE OF BUSINESS INFORMATION
We have two lines of business: Investment Servicing and Investment Management. Given our services and 
management organization, the results of operations for these lines of business are not necessarily comparable with 
those of other companies, including companies in the financial services industry. Information about our two lines of 

business, as well as the revenues, expenses and capital allocation methodologies associated with them, is provided 
in note 25 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
70The following table provides a summary of our line of business results for the periods indicated.  The ﬁOtherﬂ 
column for 2013 included net acquisition and restructuring costs of $104 million; certain provisions for litigation 
exposure and other costs of $65 million; and severance costs associated with reorganization of certain non-U.S. 
operations of $11 million.  The ﬁOtherﬂ column for 2012 included the net realized loss from the sale of all of our 

Greek investment securities of $46 million; a benefit related to claims associated with the 2008 Lehman Brothers 
bankruptcy of $362 million; certain provisions for litigation exposure and other costs of $118 million; and net 

acquisition and restructuring costs of $225 million.  The ﬁOtherﬂ column for 2011 included acquisition and 

restructuring costs of $269 million.  The amounts in the ﬁOtherﬂ columns were not allocated to State Street's 

business lines. Results for 2012 reflect reclassifications, for comparative purposes, related to management changes 
in methodologies associated with allocations of capital and expenses reflected in results for 2013.  Results for 2011 

were not adjusted for these reclassifications.InvestmentServicingInvestmentManagementOtherTotal
Years EndedDecember 31,201320122011
%Change2013 vs.2012201320122011
%Change2013 vs.2012201320122011201320122011
(Dollars inmillions, except
where otherwise
noted)Fee revenue:
Servicing fees$4,819
$4,414$
4,3829%$Š$Š$Š
$Š$Š$Š
$4,819
$4,414$4,382
Management feesŠŠŠ1,10699391711%
ŠŠŠ1,106993917
Trading services9949121,1319679889(32)
ŠŠŠ1,0611,0101,220
Securities finance324363333(11)354245(17)
ŠŠŠ359405378
Processing feesand other238259284(8)
7713Š
ŠŠŠ245266297
Total fee revenue6,3755,9486,13071,2151,1401,0647
ŠŠŠ7,5907,0887,194
Net interestrevenue2,2212,4642,231(10)827410211
ŠŠŠ2,3032,5382,333
Gains (losses)related to
investment
securities, net(9)6967ŠŠŠŠ(46)Š
(9)2367
Total revenue8,5878,4818,42811,2971,2141,1667
Š(46)Š
9,8849,6499,594
Provision for loanlosses6(3)Š
ŠŠŠŠŠŠ6(3)Š
Total expenses6,1766,0415,8902836864899(3)
180(19)269
7,1926,8867,058
Income beforeincome tax
expense$2,405
$2,443$
2,538(2)
$461$350$26732
$(180)
$(27)$(269)
$2,686
$2,766$2,536
Pre-tax margin28%29%30%
36%29%23%
27%29%26%
Average assets(in billions)$203.24
$190.09$170.45$3.76
$3.72$4.36
$207.00
$193.81$174.81
Investment ServicingTotal revenue and total fee revenue in 2013 for our Investment Servicing line of business, as presented in the 
preceding table, increased 1% and 7%, respectively, compared to 2012.  The 7% increase in total fee revenue 

mainly resulted from increases in servicing fees and trading services revenue, partly offset by declines in securities 

finance revenue and processing fees and other revenue.Servicing fees in 2013 increased 9% compared to 2012, primarily the result of stronger global equity markets, the impact of net new business installed on current-period revenue and the addition of revenue from the October 
2012 GSAS acquisition.  Trading services revenue in 2013 increased 9% compared to 2012, mainly due to higher 

foreign exchange trading revenue associated with higher client volumes, currency volatility and spreads. Securities finance revenue in 2013 decreased 11% compared to 2012, primarily the result of lower spreads 
and slightly lower average lending volumes.  Processing fees and other revenue in 2013 decreased 8% compared 

to 2012, primarily due to the absence of the fair-value adjustment related to our withdrawal from our fixed-income 
trading initiative and the gain from the sale of a Lehman Brothers-related asset, both recorded in 2012, as well as 
hedge ineffectiveness recorded in 2013.  This decline was partly offset by an increase in revenue associated with 

our investment in bank-owned life insurance for 2013 compared to 2012.Servicing fees and gains (losses) related to investment securities, net, for our Investment Servicing business line are identical to the respective consolidated results.  Refer to ﬁServicing Fees,ﬂ and ﬁGains (Losses) Related to MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
71Investment Securities, Netﬂ under ﬁTotal Revenueﬂ in this Management's Discussion and Analysis for a more in-

depth discussion.  A discussion of trading services revenue, securities finance revenue and processing fees and 

other revenue is provided under ﬁTrading Services,ﬂ ﬁSecurities Financeﬂ and ﬁProcessing Fees and Otherﬂ in ﬁTotal 

Revenue.ﬂ Net interest revenue in 2013 decreased 10% compared to 2012 primarily due to the impact of lower yields on interest-earning assets related to lower global interest rates, partly offset by lower funding costs.  The decrease also 

reflected the continued impact of the reinvestment of pay-downs on existing investment securities in lower-yielding 
investment securities.  A discussion of net interest revenue is provided under ﬁNet Interest Revenueﬂ in ﬁTotal 

Revenue.ﬂ  Total expenses in 2013 increased 2% compared to 2012. Information systems and communications expenses 
increased, primarily the result of the planned transition of certain functions to third-party service providers 
associated with components of our technology infrastructure and application maintenance and support as part of 
the Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation program, as well as costs to support new 

business.  Transaction processing services expenses increased in 2013 compared to 2012, mainly due to higher equity 
market values and higher transaction volumes in the asset servicing business.  Other expenses increased, primarily 
due to increased donations, higher securities processing costs, the addition of amortization of other intangible 
assets associated with the GSAS acquisition completed in October 2012, and higher regulatory fees and 
assessments.These expense increases were partly offset by declines in compensation and employee benefits expenses, 
primarily driven by savings associated with the implementation of our Business Operations and Information 
Technology Transformation program, partly offset by an increase in costs to support new business and higher 

incentive compensation.  A more detailed discussion of expenses is provided under ﬁExpensesﬂ in ﬁConsolidated 

Results of Operations.ﬂInvestment ManagementTotal revenue and total fee revenue in 2013 for our Investment Management line of business, as presented in 
the preceding table, both increased 7% compared to 2012.  The increase in total fee revenue was generally 

reflective of an increase in management fees, partly offset by a decline in trading services revenue.
Management fees in 2013 increased 11% compared to 2012, primarily the result of stronger equity market 
valuations and the impact of net new business installed on current-period revenue.  Trading services revenue 

decreased 32% in 2013 compared to 2012, mainly due to the impact of lower distribution fees associated with the 
SPDR® Gold ETF, which resulted from lower average gold prices and net outflows from the SPDR
® Gold ETF.
Management fees for the Investment Management business line are identical to the respective consolidated results.  Refer to ﬁManagement Feesﬂ in ﬁTotal Revenueﬂ in this Management's Discussion and Analysis for a more 

in-depth discussion.  A discussion of trading services revenue is provided under ﬁTrading Servicesﬂ in ﬁTotal 

Revenue.ﬂ Total expenses in 2013 decreased 3% compared to 2012, mainly reflective of credits associated with Lehman 
Brothers-related assets, partly offset by higher incentive compensation.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
72CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - COMPARISON OF 2012 AND 2011
OVERVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Years Ended December 31,20122011
% Change2012 vs. 2011(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)   Total fee revenue$7,088$7,194(1)%
Net interest revenue2,5382,3339
Gains (losses) related to investment securities, net2367
Total revenue9,6499,5941
Provision for loan losses(3)Š
Total expenses6,8867,058(2)
Income before income tax expense2,7662,536
Income tax expense(1)705616
Net income$2,061$1,9207
Adjustments to net income:Dividends on preferred stock(2)(29)(20)
Earnings allocated to participating securities(3)(13)(18)
Net income available to common shareholders$2,019$1,8827
Earnings per common share:Basic$4.25$3.82
Diluted4.203.79
Average common shares outstanding (in thousands):Basic474,458492,598
Diluted481,129496,072
Return on average common equity10.3%10.0%
(1) Amounts for 2012 and 2011 reflected the net effects of certain tax matters ($7 million benefit and $55 million expense, respect
ively) associated with the 2010 Intesa acquisition.  Amount for 2011 reflected a discrete income tax benefit of $103 million attributa
ble to costs incurred in terminating former conduit asset structures.(2) Amount for 2012 included $8 million related to Series C Preferred stock and $21 million related to Series A Preferred stock; am
ount for 2011 related to Series A Preferred stock.
(3) Refer to note 24 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
73TOTAL REVENUE
Years Ended December 31,20122011
% Change2012 vs. 2011(Dollars in millions)   Fee revenue:Servicing fees$4,414$4,3821%
Management fees9939178
Trading services revenue:Foreign exchange trading511683(25)
Brokerage and other trading services499537(7)
Total trading services revenue1,0101,220(17)
Securities finance4053787
Processing fees and other266297(10)
Total fee revenue7,0887,194(1)
Net interest revenue:Interest revenue3,0142,9462
Interest expense476613(22)
Net interest revenue2,5382,3339
Gains related to investment securities, net2367(66)

Total revenue$9,649$9,5941
Total revenue for 2012 increased 1% compared to 2011, primarily the result of increased servicing fee revenue 
and management fee revenue, as well as a higher level of net interest revenue, partly offset by declines in trading 

service revenue and processing fees and other revenue.  Servicing fees for 2012 increased 1% from 2011, mainly due to stronger equity markets, the impact of net new 
business and revenue added from acquired businesses, partly offset by the impacts of the weaker euro and client 

de-risking.  In both 2012 and 2011, servicing fees generated outside the U.S. were approximately 42% of total 

servicing fees.  Management fees for 2012 increased 8% from 2011, primarily due to the impact of stronger equity 

markets, net new business and higher performance fees.  Management fees generated outside the U.S. in 2012 
were approximately 37% of total management fees, compared to 41% in 2011, with the decline mainly the result of 

higher levels of management fees generated in the U.S. Trading services revenue for 2012 declined 17% compared to 2011, mainly the result of a decline in revenue 
from foreign exchange trading, due to lower currency volatility, and changes in product mix, partly offset by higher 

client volumes.  Securities finance revenue for 2012 increased 7% from 2011 as a result of higher spreads across 

all lending programs, partly offset by lower lending volumes.  
Net interest revenue for 2012 increased 9% compared to 2011.  The overall increase generally resulted from 
higher levels of interest-earning assets, growth in the investment portfolio and lower funding costs.  These increases 

were partly offset by the impact of generally lower rates on interest-earning assets.  Net interest revenue for 2012 

and 2011 included $215 million and $220 million, respectively, of discount accretion related to investment securities 

added to our consolidated statement of condition in connection with the commercial paper conduit consolidation in 
2009.  We recorded net gains related to investment securities of $23 million for 2012, composed of net realized gains 
of $55 million from sales of available-for-sale investment securities, net of $32 million of net impairment losses.  The 

net realized gains from sales of available-for-sale securities in 2012 reflected a loss of $46 million from the sale of 
all of our Greek investment securities, which were previously classified as held to maturity.  The sale was 

undertaken as a result of the effect of significant deterioration in the creditworthiness of the underlying collateral, 

including significant downgrades of the securities' external credit ratings.  For 2011, we recorded net gains related 

to investment securities of $67 million, composed of net realized gains of $140 million from sales of available-for-
sale investment securities, net of $73 million of net impairment losses. The aggregate unrealized loss on securities for which other-than-temporary impairment was recorded in 2012 
was $53 million.  Of this total, $21 million related to factors other than credit, and was recognized, net of taxes, as a 
component of other comprehensive income in our consolidated statement of condition.  We recorded losses from 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
74other-than-temporary impairment related to credit of the remaining $32 million in our 2012 consolidated statement of 
income, compared to $73 million in 2011.
EXPENSESYears Ended December 31,20122011
% Change2012 vs. 2011(Dollars in millions)Compensation and employee benefits$3,837$3,820
Information systems and communications8447769%
Transaction processing services702732(4)
Occupancy4704553
Claims resolution(362)Š
Acquisition costs, net2616
Restructuring charges, net199253
Other:Professional services38134710
Amortization of other intangible assets198200(1)
Securities processing (recoveries) costs24(6)
Regulatory fees and assessments615315
Other50641223
  Total other1,1701,00616
Total expenses$6,886$7,058(2)
Number of employees at year-end29,66029,740
ExpensesCompensation and employee benefits expenses were relatively flat in 2012 compared to 2011, as costs added 
from merit increases and acquisitions in 2012 were almost completely offset by the expense savings associated 

with the 2011 expense control measures and the implementation of our Business Operations and Information 

Technology Transformation program.
Information systems and communications expenses were higher primarily as a result of the impact of our implementation of the Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation program, as we expanded 

our use of service providers associated with components of our technology infrastructure and application 
maintenance and support, as well as additional costs to support business growth.  Transaction processing services 

expenses declined primarily as a result of lower sub-custodian and external contract services costs related to 
declines in transaction volumes in trading services and our withdrawal from the fixed-income trading initiative.In 2012, we recorded acquisition costs of $66 million, mainly related to integration costs incurred in connection with the 2012 GSAS and 2010 Intesa acquisitions.  These acquisition costs were partly offset by an indemnification 

benefit of $40 million for the assumption of an income tax liability related to the Intesa acquisition.In 2012, we recorded aggregate restructuring charges of approximately $199 million, primarily including $67 million related to the continuing implementation of our Business Operations and Information Technology 

Transformation program.  The remaining net restructuring charges of $132 million for 2012 were composed of 

charges of $133 million related to expense control measures initiated by us in 2012 and a net credit adjustment of 
$(1) million related to expense control measures we initiated in 2011.
The charges for the Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation program consisted 
mainly of costs related to employee severance and information technology.  Charges associated with the expense 

control measures included employee-related costs, principally costs related to severance, benefits and 
outplacement services; fixed-income trading portfolio-related costs, which resulted from fair-value adjustments to 
the initiative's trading portfolio related to our decision to withdraw from the initiative; and costs for asset write-downs 
and contract terminations.  As a result of the withdrawal from the fixed-income trading initiative in 2012, we wound 

down that initiative's remaining derivatives portfolio. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
75The increase in aggregate other expenses (professional services, amortization of other intangible assets, securities processing costs (recoveries), regulatory fees and assessments and other costs) for 2012 compared to 
2011 resulted primarily from the impact of litigation and consulting costs on professional fees, higher levels of 

securities processing costs and higher levels of regulatory fees and assessments.Income Tax Expense
We recorded income tax expense of $705 million for 2012, compared to $616 million for 2011, and our 
effective tax rate for 2012 was 25.5%, compared to 24.3% for 2011.  The increases in both comparisons were 

primarily associated with the impact of a discrete tax benefit of $103 million recorded in 2011 attributable to costs 

incurred in terminating former conduit asset structures.  In addition, income tax expense for 2012 and 2011 included 

a net benefit of $7 million and expense of $55 million, respectively, related to the net effects of certain tax matters 

associated with the 2010 Intesa acquisition.  FINANCIAL CONDITION
The structure of our consolidated statement of condition is primarily driven by the liabilities generated by our Investment Servicing and Investment Management lines of business.  Our clients' needs and our operating 
objectives determine balance sheet volume, mix, and currency denomination.  As our clients execute their 

worldwide cash management and investment activities, they utilize deposits and short-term investments that 
constitute the majority of our liabilities.  These liabilities are generally in the form of interest-bearing transaction 

account deposits, which are denominated in a variety of currencies; non-interest-bearing demand deposits; and 
repurchase agreements, which generally serve as short-term investment alternatives for our clients. Deposits and other liabilities generated by client activities are invested in assets that generally match the liquidity and interest-rate characteristics of the liabilities, although the weighted-average maturities of our assets are 
significantly longer than the contractual maturities of our liabilities.  Our assets consist primarily of securities held in 
our available-for-sale or held-to-maturity portfolios and short-duration financial instruments, such as interest-bearing 
deposits with banks and securities purchased under resale agreements.  The actual mix of assets is determined by 

the characteristics of the client liabilities and our desire to maintain a well-diversified portfolio of high-quality assets. The following table presents the components of our average total interest-earning and noninterest-earning assets, average total interest-bearing and noninterest-bearing liabilities, and average preferred and common 
shareholders' equity for the years ended December 31.  Additional information about our average statement of 

condition, primarily our interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, is included under ﬁConsolidated 
Results of Operations - Total Revenue - Net Interest Revenueﬂ in this Management's Discussion and Analysis. 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
76Years Ended December 31,20132012
(In millions)AverageBalanceAverageBalanceAssets:Interest-bearing deposits with banks$28,946
$26,823
Securities purchased under resale agreements5,7667,243Trading account assets748651Investment securities117,696113,910Loans and leases13,78111,610Other interest-earning assets11,1647,378Total interest-earning assets178,101167,615Cash and due from banks3,7473,811Other noninterest-earning assets25,18222,384Total assets$207,030
$193,810
Liabilities and shareholders™ equity:Interest-bearing deposits:U.S.$8,862
$9,333
Non-U.S.100,39189,059Total interest-bearing deposits109,25398,392Securities sold under repurchase agreements8,4367,697Federal funds purchased298784Other short-term borrowings3,7854,676Long-term debt8,4157,008Other interest-bearing liabilities6,4575,898Total interest-bearing liabilities136,644124,455Noninterest-bearing deposits36,29436,512Other noninterest-bearing liabilities13,56112,660Preferred shareholders™ equity490515Common shareholders™ equity20,04119,668Total liabilities and shareholders™ equity$207,030
$193,810
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
77Investment SecuritiesThe following table presents the carrying values of investment securities by type as of December 31:(In millions)201320122011
Available for sale:U.S. Treasury and federal agencies:Direct obligations$709
$841$2,836
Mortgage-backed securities23,56332,21230,021
Asset-backed securities:Student loans(1) 14,54216,42116,545
Credit cards8,2109,98610,487
Sub-prime1,2031,3991,404
Other5,0644,6773,465
Total asset-backed securities29,01932,48331,901
Non-U.S. debt securities:Mortgage-backed securities11,02911,40510,875
Asset-backed securities5,3906,2184,303
Government securities3,7613,1991,671
Other4,7274,3062,825
Total non-U.S. debt securities24,90725,12819,674
State and political subdivisions10,2637,5517,047
Collateralized mortgage obligations5,2694,9543,980
Other U.S. debt securities4,9805,2983,615
U.S. equity securities343127
Non-U.S. equity securities113U.S. money-market mutual funds4221,062613
Non-U.S. money-market mutual funds7121115
Total$99,174
$109,682$99,832
Held to Maturity:U.S. Treasury and federal agencies:Direct obligations$5,041
$5,000$Š
Mortgage-backed securities91153265
Asset-backed securities:Student loans(1) 1,627ŠŠCredit cards762ŠŠOther7821631
Total asset-backed securities3,1711631
Non-U.S. debt securities:Mortgage-backed securities4,2113,1224,973
Asset-backed securities2,202434436
Government securities233Other192167172
Total non-U.S. debt securities6,6073,7265,584
State and political subdivisions2474107
Collateralized mortgage obligations2,8062,4103,334
Total$17,740
$11,379$9,321
(1) Substantially composed of securities guaranteed by the federal government with respect to at least 97% of defaulted principal and accrued interest on the underlying loans.MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
78 The increase in municipal securities as of December 31, 2013 compared to December 31, 2012, classified as state and political subdivisions in the table above, generally resulted from the diversification of our investment 
portfolio exposure by asset class, as we reduced our exposure to mortgage-backed securities.  Additional 

information about our investment securities portfolio is provided in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements 
included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.We manage our investment securities portfolio to align with the interest-rate and duration characteristics of our 
client liabilities and in the context of the overall structure of our consolidated statement of condition, in consideration 
of the global interest-rate environment.  We consider a well-diversified, high-credit quality investment securities 

portfolio to be an important element in the management of our consolidated statement of condition. Our portfolio is concentrated in securities with high credit quality, with approximately 89% of the carrying value 
of the portfolio rated ﬁAAAﬂ or ﬁAAﬂ as of December 31, 2013.  The following table presents the percentages of the 

carrying value of the portfolio, by external credit rating, as of December 31: 20132012
AAA(1)70%69%AA1919A67BBB33Below BBB22100%100%(1) Includes U.S. Treasury and federal agency securities that are split-rated, ﬁAAAﬂ by Moody™s Investors Service and ﬁAA+ﬂ by Stan
dard & Poor™s.
As of December 31, 2013, the investment portfolio of approximately 10,510 securities was diversified with respect to asset class.  Approximately 74% of the aggregate carrying value of the portfolio as of that date was 

composed of mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities, compared to approximately 77% as of December 31, 
2012.  The asset-backed portfolio, of which approximately 97% of the carrying value was floating-rate, consisted 

primarily of student loan-backed and credit card-backed securities.  Mortgage-backed securities were composed of 
securities issued by the Federal National Mortgage Association and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, as 

well as U.S. and non-U.S. large-issuer collateralized mortgage obligations. In December 2013, U.S. regulators issued final regulations to implement the so-called ﬁVolcker rule,ﬂ one of 
many provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act.  The Volcker rule will, among other things, require banking organizations 

covered by the rule to either restructure or divest of certain investments in and relationships with ﬁcovered funds,ﬂ 
as defined in the final Volcker rule regulations.  The classification of certain types of investment securities or 

structures, such as collateralized loan obligations, or CLOs, as ﬁcovered fundsﬂ remains subject to market, and 
ultimately regulatory, interpretation, based on the specific terms and other characteristics relevant to such 

investment securities and structures. As of December 31, 2013, we held an aggregate of approximately $5.77 billion of investments in CLOs.  As of 
the same date, these investments had an aggregate pre-tax net unrealized gain of approximately $122 million, 
composed of gross unrealized gains of $141 million and gross unrealized losses of $19 million.  In the event that we 
or our banking regulators conclude that such investments in CLOs, or other investments, are ﬁcovered funds,ﬂ we 
may be required to divest of such investments.  If other banking entities reach similar conclusions with respect to 
similar investments held by them, the prices of such investments could decline significantly, and we may be required 

to divest of such investments at a significant discount compared to the investments' book value.  This could result in 

a material adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations in the period in which such a divestment occurs 

or on our consolidated financial condition.Our investment securities portfolio represented approximately 48% and 54% of our consolidated total assets as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively, and the gross interest revenue generated by our 

investment securities portfolio represented approximately 22% of our consolidated total gross revenue for 2013, 
compared to approximately 25% of our consolidated total gross revenue for 2012.  Our investment securities portfolio represents a greater proportion of our consolidated statement of condition as described above, and our loan-and-lease portfolio represents a smaller proportion (approximately 6% of our 

consolidated total assets as of both December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012), in comparison to many other 
major banking organizations.  In some respects, the accounting and regulatory treatment of our investment MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
79securities portfolio may be less favorable to us than a more traditional held-for-investment lending portfolio or a 
portfolio of U.S. Treasury securities.  For example, under the July 2013 Basel III final rule, after-tax unrealized gains 

and losses on investment securities classified as available for sale will be included in tier 1 capital.  Since loans held 
for investment are not subject to a fair-value accounting framework, changes in the fair value of loans (other than 
incurred credit losses) are not similarly included in the determination of tier 1 capital under the Basel III final rule.  
As a result of this differing treatment, we may experience increased variability in our tier 1 capital relative to other 

major banking institutions whose loan-and-lease portfolios represent a larger proportion of their consolidated total 
assets than ours.Non-U.S. Debt Securities Approximately 27% of the aggregate carrying value of our investment securities portfolio as of December 31, 2013 was composed of non-U.S. debt securities, compared to approximately 24% as of December 31, 2012.  The 

following table presents our non-U.S. debt securities available for sale and held to maturity, included in the 

preceding table of investment securities carrying values, by significant country of issuer or location of collateral, as 
of December 31:(In millions)20132012
Available for Sale:United Kingdom$9,357
$10,263
Australia3,5514,035Netherlands3,4713,006Canada2,5492,274France1,5811,364Germany1,4101,836Japan9711,173South Korea744257Finland397259Norway369210Sweden14272Austria83ŠSpain6567Mexico5570Other162242Total$24,907
$25,128
Held to Maturity:Australia$2,216
$2,189
United Kingdom1,474920Germany1,263ŠNetherlands934ŠItaly270276Spain206209Other244132Total$6,607
$3,726
Approximately 89% and 87% of the aggregate carrying value of these non-U.S. debt securities was rated ﬁAAAﬂ or ﬁAAﬂ as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  The majority of these securities comprise senior 

positions within the security structures; these positions have a level of protection provided through subordination 
and other forms of credit protection.  Approximately 72% of the aggregate carrying value of these non-U.S. debt 

securities was floating-rate, and accordingly, the securities are considered to have minimal interest-rate risk.  As of 

December 31, 2013, these non-U.S. debt securities had an average market-to-book ratio of 101.3%, and an 
aggregate pre-tax net unrealized gain of approximately $413 million, composed of gross unrealized gains of $483 
million and gross unrealized losses of $70 million.  These unrealized amounts included a pre-tax net unrealized gain 

of $292 million, composed of gross unrealized gains of $314 million and gross unrealized losses of $22 million, 
associated with non-U.S. debt securities available for sale.   MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
80As of December 31, 2013, the underlying collateral for these mortgage- and asset-backed securities primarily included U.K. prime mortgages, Australian and Dutch mortgages and German automobile loans.  The securities 

listed under ﬁCanadaﬂ were composed of Canadian government securities and corporate debt.  The securities listed 

under ﬁFranceﬂ were composed of automobile loans and corporate debt.  The securities listed under ﬁJapanﬂ were 

substantially composed of Japanese government securities.  The securities listed under ﬁSouth Koreaﬂ were 

composed of South Korean government securities.  The ﬁotherﬂ category of available-for-sale securities included 

approximately $68 million and $105 million of securities as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, related to 

Portugal and Ireland, all of which were mortgage-backed securities.  The ﬁotherﬂ category of held-to-maturity 

securities included approximately $130 million of securities as of both December 31, 2013 and 2012 related to 
Portugal and Ireland, all of which were mortgage-backed securities.  Our aggregate exposure to Spain, Italy, Ireland and Portugal as of December 31, 2013 did not include any 
direct sovereign debt exposure to any of these countries.  Our indirect exposure to these countries totaled 
approximately $740 million, which included approximately $574 million of mortgage- and asset-backed securities 
with an aggregate pre-tax net unrealized gain of approximately $69 million as of December 31, 2013, composed of 
gross unrealized gains of $84 million and gross unrealized losses of $15 million.  We recorded other-than-temporary 

impairment of $6 million on certain of these mortgage- and asset-backed securities in our consolidated statement of 
income in 2013, all of which was associated with management's intent to sell an impaired security prior to its 
recovery in value.  In 2012, we recorded other-than-temporary impairment of $6 million on certain of these 
mortgage- and asset-backed securities, all of which was associated with expected credit losses.  We recorded no 

other-than-temporary impairment on these mortgage- and asset-backed securities in 2011.
Eurozone crisis tensions appeared to ease to an extent in 2013, following renewed volatility at the end of the first quarter of 2013.  Economic performance remains weak in Spain, Italy, Ireland and Portugal.  Throughout the 
sovereign debt crisis, the major independent credit rating agencies have downgraded, and may in the future do so 
again, U.S. and non-U.S. financial institutions and sovereign issuers which have been, and may in the future be, 
significant counterparties to us, or whose financial instruments serve as collateral on which we rely for credit risk 
mitigation purposes.  As a result, we may be exposed to increased counterparty risk, leading to negative ratings 

volatility. 
Country risks with respect to Spain, Italy, Ireland and Portugal are identified, assessed and monitored by our 
Country Risk Committee.  Country limits are defined in our credit and counterparty risk guidelines, in conformity with 
our credit and counterparty risk policy.  These limits are monitored on a daily basis by Enterprise Risk Management.  

These country exposures are subject to ongoing surveillance and stress test analysis, conducted by the investment 
portfolio management team.  The stress tests performed reflect the structure and nature of the exposure, its past 

and projected future performance based on macroeconomic and environmental analysis, with key underlying 
assumptions varied under a range of scenarios, reflecting downward pressure on collateral performance.  The 

results of the stress tests are presented to senior management and Enterprise Risk Management  as part of the 
surveillance process. In addition, Enterprise Risk Management conducts separate stress-test analyses and evaluates the structured asset exposures in these countries for the assessment of other-than-temporary impairment.  The assumptions used 

in these evaluations reflect expected downward pressure on collateral performance.  Stress scenarios are subject to 
regular review, and are updated to reflect changes in the economic environment, measures taken in response to the 

sovereign debt crisis and collateral performance, with particular attention to these specific country exposures.  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
81Municipal Securities We carried an aggregate of approximately $10.29 billion of municipal securities, classified as state and political 
subdivisions in the preceding table of investment securities carrying values, in our investment securities portfolio as 
of December 31, 2013.  Substantially all of these securities were classified as available for sale, with the remainder 
classified as held to maturity.  As of the same date, we also provided approximately $8.16 billion of credit and 

liquidity facilities to municipal issuers as a form of credit enhancement.  The following tables present our combined 

credit exposure to state and municipal obligors that represented 5% or more of our aggregate municipal credit 
exposure of approximately $18.45 billion and $16.12 billion across our businesses as of December 31, 2013 and 
2012, respectively, grouped by state to display geographic dispersion: 
December 31, 2013Total Municipal
SecuritiesCredit andLiquidity FacilitiesTotal
% of Total 
MunicipalExposure(Dollars in millions)State of Issuer:Texas$1,233$1,628$2,86116%
New York9191,0001,91910
Massachusetts9677591,7269
California3731,2661,6399
Maryland3276439705
Total$3,819$5,296$9,115
December 31, 2012Total Municipal
SecuritiesCredit andLiquidity FacilitiesTotal 
% of Total 
Municipal Exposure  (Dollars in millions)State of Issuer:Texas$1,091$1,957$3,04819%

New York4869731,4599

Massachusetts8695081,3779

California1901,1581,3488

New Jersey867Š8675

Florida1486808285

Total$3,651$5,276$8,927
Our aggregate municipal securities exposure presented in the foregoing table was concentrated primarily with highly-rated counterparties, with approximately 84% of the obligors rated ﬁAAAﬂ or ﬁAAﬂ as of December 31, 2013.  
As of that date, approximately 64% and 34% of our aggregate exposure was associated with general obligation and 
revenue bonds, respectively.  In addition, we had no exposures associated with healthcare, industrial development 

or land development bonds.  The portfolios are also diversified geographically; the states that represent our largest 

exposure are widely dispersed across the U.S.  Additional information with respect to our assessment of other-than-temporary impairment of our municipal securities is provided in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.     MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
82The following table presents the carrying amounts, by contractual maturity, of debt securities available for sale 
and held to maturity, and the related weighted-average contractual yields, as of December 31, 2013:
 Under 1 Year1 to 5 Years6 to 10 YearsOver 10 Years
(Dollars in millions)AmountYieldAmountYieldAmountYieldAmountYield

Available for sale
(1):U.S. Treasury and federal agencies:Direct obligations$13.74%$36
3.50%$46
3.05%$6262.05
%Mortgage-backed securities2721.90
2,2673.225,3313.0815,6933.06
Asset-backed securities: Student loans927.45
6,400.574,546.602,669.75Credit cards2,629.533,366.652,2151.14
ŠŠSub-prime331.4320
2.4122.621,148
.69Other304.67
1,603.621,4381.041,7191.40
Total asset-backed3,89311,3898,2015,536
Non-U.S. debt securities:Mortgage-backed securities8831.75
5,7911.681502.364,2052.61
Asset-backed securities4321.06
4,2351.115921.531311.62
Government securities2,727.711,034.46ŠŠŠ
ŠOther1,2012.692,8712.316551.40
ŠŠTotal non-U.S. debt securities5,24313,9311,3974,336
State and political subdivisions(2)6904.62
3,1524.593,8845.342,5375.65
Collateralized mortgage obligations4214.76
1,6333.291,2402.281,9752.87
Other U.S. debt securities2994.39
3,9193.957294.29
33.79
Total$10,819$
36,327$20,828$30,736Held to maturity(1):U.S. Treasury and federal agencies:Direct Obligations$ŠŠ%$ŠŠ%$
5,0002.09
%$41.59%
Mortgage-backed securitiesŠŠ22
5.00185.00515.36Asset-backed securitiesStudent loans18.37
152.60221.871,236.74Credit cardsŠŠ278.66484.57Š
ŠOtherŠŠ493.48284.595.59Total asset-backed189239891,241
Non-U.S. debt securities:Mortgage-backed securitiesŠŠ1,1411.311793.672,8911.68
Asset-backed securities140.58
1,828.95234.71Š
ŠGovernment securities2.31ŠŠŠŠŠ
ŠOther1651.1125.82ŠŠ
22.94
Total non-U.S. debt securities3072,9944132,893
State and political subdivisions(2)155.539
5.51ŠŠŠ
ŠCollateralized mortgage obligations1873.12
1,0653.044951.481,0592.47
Total$527$
5,013$6,915$5,285(1) The maturities of mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations are based on expected principal payments.(2) Yields were calculated on a fully taxable-equivalent basis, using applicable federal and state income tax rates.
ImpairmentImpairment exists when the fair value of an individual security is below its amortized cost basis.  Impairment of a security is further assessed to determine whether such impairment is other-than-temporary.  When the impairment 

is deemed to be other-than-temporary, we record the loss in our consolidated statement of income.  In addition, for 

debt securities available for sale and held to maturity, we record impairment in our consolidated statement of 

income when management intends to sell (or may be required to sell) the securities before they recover in value, or MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
83when management expects the present value of cash flows expected to be collected from the securities to be less 
than the amortized cost of the impaired security (a credit loss).  The following table presents the amortized cost and fair value, and associated net unrealized gains and losses, of investment securities available for sale and held to maturity as of December 31:2013(1)2012(1)(In millions)AmortizedCostNetUnrealizedGains(Losses)Fair Value
AmortizedCostNetUnrealizedGains(Losses)Fair Value
Available for sale
(2)$99,159$15$99,174
$108,563$1,119$109,682
Held to maturity(2)17,740(180)17,560
11,37928211,661
Total investment securities116,899(165)116,734
119,9421,401121,343
Net after-tax unrealized gain (loss)$(96)
$885
(1) Amounts excluded the remaining net unrealized losses primarily related to reclassifications of securities available for sale to securities held to maturity in 2008, recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, or AOCI, within shareholders' equity in our 

consolidated statement of condition.  Additional information is provided in note 13 to the consolidated financial statements in
cluded under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  (2) Securities available for sale are carried at fair value, with after-tax net unrealized gains and losses recorded in AOCI.  Secu
rities held to maturity are carried at cost, and unrealized gains and losses are not recorded in our consolidated financial statements.The aggregate decline to a net unrealized loss as of December 31, 2013 from a net unrealized gain as of December 31, 2012 presented above was primarily attributable to changes in interest rates in 2013.  We conduct periodic reviews of individual securities to assess whether other-than-temporary impairment 
exists.  Our assessment of other-than-temporary impairment involves an evaluation of economic and security-
specific factors.  Such factors are based on estimates, derived by management, which contemplate current market 
conditions and security-specific performance.  To the extent that market conditions are worse than management's 

expectations, other-than-temporary impairment could increase, in particular the credit-related component that would 
be recorded in our consolidated statement of income.  In the aggregate, we recorded net losses from other-than-temporary impairment of $23 million and $32 million in the years ended December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively.  Additional information with respect to 

this other-than-temporary impairment and net impairment losses, as well as information about our assessment of 
impairment, is provided in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.Given the exposure of our investment securities portfolio, particularly mortgage- and asset-backed securities, to residential mortgage and other consumer credit risks, the performance of the U.S. housing market continues to 
be a factor in the portfolio's credit performance.  As such, our assessment of other-than-temporary impairment 

relies, in part, on our estimates of trends in national housing prices in addition to trends in unemployment rates, 
interest rates and the timing of defaults. Generally, indices that measure trends in national housing prices are 

published in arrears.  As of September 30, 2013, national housing prices, according to the Case-Shiller National 

Home Price Index, had declined by approximately 21% peak-to-current.  Overall, our evaluation of other-than-
temporary impairment as of December 31, 2013 included an expectation of a U.S. housing recovery characterized 
by relatively modest growth in national housing prices over the next few years.  In connection with our assessment 
of other-than-temporary impairment with respect to relevant securities in our investment portfolio in future periods, 
we will consider trends in national housing prices that we observe at those times, including the Case-Shiller 
National Home Price Index, in addition to trends in unemployment rates, interest rates and the timing of defaults.The other-than-temporary impairment of our investment securities portfolio continues to be sensitive to our estimates of future cumulative losses.  However, given our recent more positive outlook for U.S. national housing 

prices, our sensitivity analysis indicates, as of December 31, 2013, that our investment securities portfolio is 
currently less exposed to the overall housing price outlook relative to other factors, including unemployment rates 
and interest rates, than it was as of December 31, 2012.The residential mortgage servicing environment remains challenging, and the time line to liquidate distressed loans continues to extend.  The rate at which distressed residential mortgages are liquidated may affect, among 

other things, our investment securities portfolio.  Such effects could include the timing of cash flows or the credit 

quality associated with the mortgages collateralizing certain of our residential mortgage-backed securities, which, 
accordingly, could result in the recognition of additional other-than-temporary impairment in future periods.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
84Our evaluation of potential other-than-temporary impairment of mortgage-backed securities with collateral located in Spain, Italy, Ireland and Portugal takes into account government intervention in the corresponding 

mortgage markets and assumes a negative baseline macroeconomic environment for this region, due to a 
combination of slow economic growth and government austerity measures.  Our baseline view assumes a 
recessionary period characterized by high unemployment and by additional declines in housing prices of between 
12% and 19% across these four countries.  Our evaluation of other-than-temporary impairment in our base case 
does not assume a disorderly sovereign debt restructuring or a break-up of the Eurozone.  In addition, we perform stress testing and sensitivity analysis in order to assess the impact of more severe assumptions on potential other-than-temporary impairment.  We estimate, for example, that in more stressful 

scenarios in which unemployment, gross domestic product and housing prices in these four countries deteriorate 
more than we expected as of December 31, 2013, other-than-temporary impairment could increase by a range of 
approximately $11 million to $40 million.  This sensitivity estimate is based on a number of factors, including, but not 

limited to, the level of housing prices and the timing of defaults.  To the extent that such factors differ significantly 

from management's current expectations, resulting loss estimates may differ materially from those stated.
Excluding other-than-temporary impairment recorded in 2013, management considers the aggregate decline in fair value of the remaining investment securities and the resulting gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 
2013 to be temporary and not the result of any material changes in the credit characteristics of the securities.  
Additional information about these gross unrealized losses is provided in note 4 to the consolidated financial 

statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.Loans and LeasesThe following table presents our U.S. and non-U.S. loans and leases, by segment, as of and for the years ended December 31 (excluding the allowance for loan losses):(In millions)20132012201120102009
Institutional:U.S.$10,623
$9,645$7,115$7,001$6,637
Non-U.S.2,6542,2512,4784,1923,571
Commercial real estate:U.S.209411460764600
Total loans and leases$13,486
$12,307$10,053$11,957$10,808
Average loans and leases$13,781
$11,610$12,180$12,094$9,703
The increase in loans in the institutional segment presented in the table above was mainly related to an increase in mutual fund lending and our investment in the non-investment-grade lending market through 
participations in loan syndications, specifically senior secured bank loans.  Senior secured bank loans are more fully 
described below, and additional information about all of our loan-and-lease segments, as well as underlying 

classes, is provided in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.The institutional segment is composed of the following classes: investment funds, commercial and financial, purchased receivables and lease financing. The investment funds class includes lending to mutual and other 

collective investment funds and short-duration advances to fund clients to provide liquidity in support of their 
transaction flows associated with securities settlement activities. The commercial-and-financial class includes 

lending to corporate borrowers, including broker/dealers, as well as purchased loans composed of senior secured 
bank loans.  The purchased receivables class represent undivided interests in securitized pools of underlying third-

party receivables added in connection with the 2009 conduit consolidation. Lease financing includes our investment 
in leveraged lease financing.In 2013, we diversified our loan-and-lease exposure by investing in the non-investment-grade lending market through participations in loan syndications.  These senior secured bank loans totaled approximately $724 million as 

of December 31, 2013.  In addition, as of the same date, we had binding unfunded commitments totaling an 
additional $211 million to participate in such syndications.  We expect to increase our level of participation in these 

loan syndications in future periods.  We had no investment in senior secured bank loans as of December 31, 2012 

or in any prior years.  These loans, which we have rated ﬁspeculativeﬂ under our internal risk-rating framework (refer to note 5 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K), are externally rated ﬁBBB,ﬂ ﬁBBﬂ or ﬁB,ﬂ 
with approximately 94% of the loans rated ﬁBBﬂ or ﬁB.ﬂ  These loans present more significant exposure to potential 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
85credit losses than higher-rated loans.  However, we seek to mitigate such exposure, in part through the limitation of 

our investment to larger, more liquid credits underwritten by major global financial institutions, the application of our 

internal credit analysis process to each potential investment, and diversification by counterparty and industry 
segment.  As of December 31, 2013, our allowance for loan losses included approximately $6 million related to 

these commercial-and-financial loans.  Aggregate short-duration advances to our clients included in the investment funds and commercial-and-financial classes of the institutional segment were $2.45 billion and $3.30 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 
2012, respectively.  As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, unearned income deducted from our investment in 

leveraged lease financing was $121 million and $131 million, respectively, for U.S. leases and $298 million and 

$334 million, respectively, for non-U.S. leases. 
The commercial real estate, or CRE, segment is composed of the loans acquired in 2008 pursuant to indemnified repurchase agreements with an affiliate of Lehman as a result of the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy. 

These loans, which are primarily collateralized by direct and indirect interests in commercial real estate, were 
recorded at their then-current fair value, based on management's expectations with respect to future cash flows 
from the loans using appropriate market discount rates as of the date of acquisition.As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, we held an aggregate of approximately $130 million and $197 million, respectively, of CRE loans which were modified in troubled debt restructurings.  No impairment loss was recognized 

upon restructuring of the loans, as the discounted cash flows of the modified loans exceeded the carrying amount of 
the original loans as of the modification date.  No loans were modified in troubled debt restructurings in 2013 or 
2012. No institutional loans were 90 days or more contractually past due as of December 31, 2013, 2012, 2011, 
2010 or 2009.  As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, no CRE loans were 90 days or more contractually past due. 

Although a portion of the CRE loans was 90 days or more contractually past due as of December 31, 2011, 2010 

and 2009, we did not report them as past-due loans, because in conformity with GAAP, the interest earned on these 

loans is based on an accretable yield resulting from management™s expectations with respect to the future cash 

flows for each loan relative to both the timing and collection of principal and interest as of the reporting date, not the 
loans™ contractual payment terms. These cash-flow estimates are updated quarterly to reflect changes in 

management™s expectations, which consider market conditions.  
We generally place loans on non-accrual status once principal or interest payments are 60 days past due, or 
earlier if management determines that full collection is not probable. Loans 60 days past due, but considered both 
well-secured and in the process of collection, may be excluded from non-accrual status. For loans placed on non-
accrual status, revenue recognition is discontinued.  As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, no CRE loans were on 

non-accrual status. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
86The following table presents contractual maturities for loan and lease balances as of December 31, 2013:  (In millions)TotalUnder 1 Year1 to 5 YearsOver 5 Years
Institutional:Investment funds:U.S.$8,695$7,313$1,378$4
Non-U.S.1,7181,455263Š
Commercial and financial:U.S.1,372447447478
Non-U.S.154775126
Purchased receivables:U.S.21783Š134
Non-U.S.26224Š
Lease financing:U.S.339Š7332
Non-U.S.756Š265491
Total institutional13,2779,3772,4351,465
Commercial real estate:U.S.209Š209Š
Total loans and leases$13,486$9,377$2,644$1,465
The following table presents the classification of loan and lease balances due after one year according to sensitivity to changes in interest rates as of December 31, 2013: (In millions) Loans and leases with predetermined interest rates$3,151
Loans and leases with floating or adjustable interest rates958Total$4,109
 As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the allowance for loan losses was $28 million and $22 million, 
respectively.  The following table presents activity in the allowance for loan losses for the years ended December 

31:(In millions)20132012201120102009
Allowance for loan losses:Beginning balance$22
$22$100$79$18
Provision for loan losses:Commercial real estateŠ(3)922124
Institutional6Š(9)325
Charge-offs:Commercial real estateŠŠ(78)(4)(72)
InstitutionalŠŠŠŠ(19)
Recoveries:Commercial real estateŠ3ŠŠ3
Ending balance$28
$22$22$100$79
The provision in 2013, which was related to the institutional loans segment, resulted from our exposure to non-investment-grade borrowers composed of senior secured bank loans, more fully described above.  These loans 

were purchased in connection with our participation in loan syndications in the non-investment-grade lending 
market beginning in 2013, in connection with the diversification of our loan-and-lease exposure.  Loans and leases are reviewed on a regular basis, and any provisions for loan losses that are recorded reflect management™s estimate of the amount necessary to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level considered 

appropriate to absorb estimated incurred credit losses in the loan and lease portfolio.  With respect to CRE loans, 
management considers its expectations with respect to future cash flows from those loans and the value of MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
87available collateral.  These expectations are based, among other things, on an assessment of economic conditions, 

including conditions in the commercial real estate market and other factors.  Cross-Border OutstandingsCross-border outstandings are amounts payable to us by non-U.S. counterparties which are denominated in U.S. dollars or other non-local currency, as well as non-U.S. local currency claims not funded by local currency 

liabilities.  Our cross-border outstandings consist primarily of deposits with banks; loans and lease financing, 
including short-duration advances; investment securities; amounts related to foreign exchange and interest-rate 
contracts; and securities finance.   In addition to credit risk, cross-border outstandings have the risk that, as a result of political or economic conditions in a country, borrowers may be unable to meet their contractual repayment 

obligations of principal and/or interest when due because of the unavailability of, or restrictions on, foreign 
exchange needed by borrowers to repay their obligations. We place deposits with non-U.S. counterparties that have strong internal State Street risk ratings. 
Counterparties are approved and monitored by our Country Risk Committee. This process includes financial 

analysis of non-U.S. counterparties and the use of an internal risk-rating system. Each counterparty is reviewed at 
least annually and potentially more frequently based on deteriorating credit fundamentals or general market 
conditions. We also utilize risk mitigation and other facilities that may reduce our exposure through the use of cash 

collateral and/or balance sheet netting. In addition, the Country Risk Committee performs a country-risk analysis 
and monitors limits on country exposure. The following table presents our cross-border outstandings in countries in which we do business, and which amounted to at least 1% of our consolidated total assets as of the dates indicated.  The aggregate of the total cross-

border outstandings presented in the table represented approximately 19%, 22% and 16% of our consolidated total 
assets as of December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
(In millions)Investment Securities and Other Assets Derivativesand Securitieson LoanTotal Cross-BorderOutstandings2013   United Kingdom$15,422$1,697$17,119
Australia7,3096727,981
Netherlands4,5422774,819
Canada3,6756204,295
Germany4,0621474,209
France2,8877353,622
Japan2,4456053,050
2012   United Kingdom$18,046$1,033$19,079

Australia7,5853287,913
Japan6,6251,0417,666
Germany7,4262207,646
Netherlands3,1301883,318
Canada2,7305003,230
2011   United Kingdom$13,336$1,510$14,846

Australia6,7862637,049
Germany6,3215786,899
Netherlands3,6261973,823
Canada2,2354962,731
As of December 31, 2013, aggregate cross-border outstandings in countries which amounted to between 0.75% and 1% of our consolidated total assets totaled approximately $1.85 billion to China.  As of December 31, 

2012 and 2011, aggregate cross-border outstandings in countries which amounted to between 0.75% and 1% of our 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
88consolidated total assets totaled approximately $1.81 billion and $1.70 billion, to France and Luxembourg, 
respectively. 
Several European countries, particularly Spain, Italy, Ireland and Portugal, have experienced credit 
deterioration associated with weaknesses in their economic and fiscal situations.  With respect to this ongoing 
uncertainty, we are closely monitoring our exposure to these countries.  We had no direct sovereign debt exposure 

to these countries in our investment securities portfolio.  We had aggregate indirect exposure in the portfolio of 

approximately $740 million, including $574 million of mortgage- and asset-backed securities, composed of $271 
million in Spain, $105 million in Italy, $120 million in Ireland and $78 million in Portugal, as of December 31, 2013. 
The following table presents our cross-border outstandings in each of these countries as of December 31:(In millions)InvestmentSecurities andOther Assets Derivatives andSecurities onLoanTotal Cross-BorderOutstandings2013   
Ireland$369$304$673
Italy7632765
Spain27111282
Portugal78Š78
2012   
Italy$937$1$938
Ireland342277619
Spain27716293
Portugal76Š76
2011
Italy$1,049$11$1,060
Ireland299267566
Spain43453487
Portugal176Š176
Greece99Š99
As of December 31, 2013, none of the exposures in these countries was individually greater than 0.75% of our consolidated total assets.  The aggregate exposures consisted primarily of interest-bearing deposits, investment 

securities, loans, including short-duration advances, and foreign exchange contracts.  We had not recorded any 

provisions for loan losses with respect to any of our exposure in these countries as of December 31, 2013.Risk Management
GeneralIn the normal course of our global business activities, we are exposed to a variety of risks, some inherent in the financial services industry, others more specific to our business activities.  State Street™s risk management 

framework focuses on material risks, which include the following:Ł credit and counterparty risk;

Ł liquidity risk, funding and liquidity management; 

Ł operational risk, including execution, technology, business practice and fiduciary risks;
Ł market risk, including market risk associated with our trading activities and market risk associated with our non-trading, or asset-and-liability management, activities, which is primarily composed of interest-rate risk;Ł model risk; and Ł business risk, including reputational risk. These material risks, as well as certain of the factors underlying each of these risks that could affect our 
businesses, our consolidated results of operations and our consolidated financial condition, are discussed in detail 
in ﬁRisk Factors,ﬂ included under Item 1A of this Form 10-K.     
The scope of our business requires that we balance these risks with a comprehensive and well-integrated risk management function. The identification, assessment, monitoring, mitigation and reporting of risks are essential to 

our financial performance and successful management of our businesses. These risks, if not effectively managed, 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
89can result in current losses to State Street as well as erosion of our capital and damage to our reputation. Our 
systematic approach allows for an assessment of risks within a framework for evaluating opportunities for the 
prudent use of capital that appropriately balances risk and return. Our operations are subject to significant oversight from regulators domestically and overseas.  Our objective is to optimize our return and to operate at a prudent level of risk. In support of this objective, we have instituted a risk 
appetite framework that aligns our business strategy and financial objectives with the level of risk that we are willing 
to incur. 
Our risk management is based on the following major principles:A culture of risk awareness that extends across all of our business activities;
The identification, classification and quantification of State Street's material risks;The establishment of our risk appetite and associated limits and policies, and our compliance with these limits;The establishment of a risk management structure at the ﬁtop of the houseﬂ that enables the control and 
coordination of risk-taking across the business lines;The implementation of stress testing practices and a dynamic risk-assessment capability; andThe overall flexibility to adapt to the ever-changing business and market conditions.Our Risk Appetite Statement outlines the quantitative limits and qualitative goals that define our risk appetite, as 
well as the responsibilities for measuring and monitoring risk against limits, and for reporting, escalating, approving 

and addressing exceptions. The Risk Appetite Statement is established by management with the guidance of Enterprise 

Risk Management, or ERM, a corporate risk oversight group, in conjunction with the Board of Directors, who formally 

reviews and approves our Risk Appetite Statement annually.
The Risk Appetite Statement describes the level and types of risk that we are willing to experience in executing 
our business strategy, and also serves as a guide in setting risk limits across our business units. In addition to our 

Risk Appetite Statement, we use stress testing as another important tool in our risk management practice.  

Additional information with respect to our stress testing process and practices is provided under ﬁCapitalﬂ in this 
Management™s Discussion and Analysis.
The following table provides a reference to the disclosures about our management of significant risks provided herein.Form 10-KPage NumberRisk Governance and StructureWe have a disciplined approach to risk management that involves all levels of management, from the Board 
and the Board™s Risk and Capital Committee, or RCC, and its Examining & Audit, or E&A, Committee, to each 

business unit and each employee. We allocate responsibility for risk oversight so that risk/return decisions are made 

at an appropriate level, and are subject to robust and effective review and challenge. Risk management is the 

responsibility of each employee, and is implemented through three lines of defense: the business units, which own 
and manage the risks inherent in their business; ERM, which provides separate oversight, monitoring and control; 
and Corporate Audit, which assesses the effectiveness of the first two lines of defense. 
The responsibilities for effective review and challenge reside with senior managers, oversight committees, 
Corporate Audit, the Board's RCC and, ultimately, the Board. While we believe that our risk management program is 

effective in managing the risks in our businesses, external factors may create risks that cannot always be identified 

or anticipated.Corporate-level risk committees provide focused oversight, and establish corporate standards and policies for specific risks, including credit, sovereign exposure, new business products, regulatory compliance and ethics, as Risk Governance and Structure89Credit Risk Management92Liquidity Risk Management94Operational Risk Management100Market Risk Management102Model Risk Management109Business Risk Management109MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
90well as operational, market, liquidity and model risks.  These committees have been delegated the responsibility to 

develop recommendations and remediation strategies to address issues that affect or have the potential to affect 

State Street.We maintain a risk governance committee structure which serves as the formal governance mechanism 
through which we seek to undertake the consistent identification, discussion and mitigation of various risks facing 
State Street in connection with our business activities. This governance structure is enhanced and integrated 

through multi-disciplinary involvement, particularly through ERM. The following chart presents this structure.
RISK GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE STRUCTUREBoardOversightRisk and CapitalCommittee of the Boardof Directors(RCC)Examining & AuditCommittee of the Board ofDirectors(E&A)Senior Management
OversightManagement Risk andCapital Committee(MRAC)Technology andOperational RiskCommittee(TORC)Risk
CommitteesAsset,LiabilityandCapitalCommittee(ALCCO)Credit Riskand PolicyCommitteeCountryRiskCommitteeTradingandMarketsRiskCommittee(TMRC)SecuritiesFinanceRiskCommitteeModel Assessment Committee(MAC)Basel ICAAP 
Oversight Committee(BIOC)CCAR Steering Committee(1)RecoveryandResolutionPlanningCommitteeFiduciaryReviewCommitteeOperational Risk Committee(ORC)TechnologyRiskGovernanceCommitteeMandateOversight of  interest rate 
risk, liquidity 
risk and 
capital 
adequacyOversight ofcredit and
counterparty
riskOversight of country risk 
and 
international 
exposureSenior riskcommittee
governing
all global
markets
trading
activitiesOversight of Securities 
Finance and 
collateral 
reinvestment 
activitiesProvidesoversight for
model
deploymentOversight of Basel II and 
Basel III 
programOversight ofCCAR
stress
testing
programOversight ofprocess for
development
of recovery
and
resolution
plansOversight ofcorporate-
wide
fiduciary riskOversight of corporate-
wide 
operational 
riskOversight of 
corporate-
wide 
technology 
risk(1) Oversees the submission of capital plans in connection with the Federal Reserve's Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review, or
 CCAR, process.ERM provides risk oversight, support and coordination to allow for the consistent identification, measurement and management of risks across business units separate from the business units' activities, and is responsible for 
the formulation and maintenance of enterprise-wide risk management policies and guidelines.  In addition, ERM 
establishes and reviews approved limits and, in collaboration with business unit management, monitors key risks. 
Ultimately, ERM works to validate that risk-taking falls within our risk appetite approved by the Board and conforms 

to associated risk policies, limits and guidelines. The Chief Risk Officer, or CRO, who is responsible for State Street™s risk management globally, leads ERM 
and has a dual reporting line to State Street™s Chief Executive Officer and the Board™s RCC. ERM discharges its 

responsibilities globally through a three-dimensional organization structure: ﬁVerticalﬂ business unit-aligned risk groups that assist business managers with risk management, 

measurement and monitoring activities; ﬁHorizontalﬂ risk groups that monitor the risks that cross all of our business units (for example, credit and 
operational risk); andRisk oversight for international activities, which adds important regional and legal entity perspectives to 
global vertical and horizontal risk management.Sitting on top of this three-dimensional organization structure is a centralized group responsible for the aggregation of risk exposures across the vertical, horizontal and regional dimensions, for consolidated reporting, for 
setting the enterprise-level risk appetite framework and associated limits and policies, and for dynamic risk 
assessment across State Street.MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
91The Board's RCC is responsible for oversight related to our assessment and management of risk, including credit, liquidity, operational, fiduciary, market, interest-rate and business risks and related policies.  In addition, the 

RCC provides oversight on strategic capital governance principles and controls, and monitors capital adequacy in 
relation to risk.  The RCC is also responsible for discharging the duties and obligations of the Board under the 

applicable Basel requirements.   The Chief Financial Officer, together with the CRO, attend meetings of the RCC.  The RCC receives regular 
and comprehensive reports on risk methodologies and our risk profile, including key issues affecting each business 

unit.The E&A Committee oversees the operation of our system of internal controls covering the integrity of our 
consolidated financial statements and reports, compliance with laws, regulations and corporate policies, and the 
qualifications, performance and independence of our independent registered public accounting firm.  The E&A 

Committee acts on behalf of the Board in monitoring and overseeing the performance of Corporate Audit and in 

reviewing certain communications with banking regulators.  The E&A Committee has direct responsibility for the 

appointment, compensation, retention, evaluation and oversight of the work of our independent registered public 
accounting firm, including sole authority for the establishment of pre-approval policies and procedures for all audit 
engagements and any non-audit engagements.  The Management Risk and Capital Committee, or MRAC, is the senior management decision-making body for risk and capital issues, and is responsible for ensuring that our strategy, budget, risk appetite and capital adequacy 

are properly aligned.  The main responsibilities of MRAC are as follows:
Ł The review of our risk appetite framework and top-level risk limits and policies; Ł The monitoring and assessment of our capital adequacy based on regulatory requirements and internal policies; andŁ The review of business performance in the context of risk and capital allocation. The committee is co-chaired by our CRO and Chief Financial Officer.  In addition, MRAC regularly presents a 
report to the Board™s RCC outlining developments in the risk environment and performance trends in our key 

business areas.The Technology and Operational Risk Committee, or TORC, oversees and assesses the effectiveness of 
corporate-wide technology and operational risk management programs, to manage and control technology and 
operational risk consistently across the organization. The TORC may meet jointly with the MRAC periodically to 

review or approve common areas of interest such as risk frameworks and policies.  The TORC is co-chaired by our 

CRO and Head of Global Operations, Technology and Product Development.
Risk CommitteesOur Asset, Liability and Capital Committee, or ALCCO, is a risk committee that oversees the management of 
our consolidated statement of condition, the management of our global liquidity and our interest-rate risk positions, 
our regulatory and economic capital, the determination of the framework for capital allocation and strategies for 
capital structure, and issuances of debt and equity securities. ALCCO™s roles and responsibilities are designed to 

work complementary to, and be coordinated with, the MRAC which approves State Street™s balance sheet strategy 

and related activities. ALCCO is chaired by our Treasurer and directly reports into the MRAC.
The following other risk committees have focused responsibilities for oversight of specific areas of risk management:Ł The Credit Risk and Policy Committee is responsible for cross-business unit review and oversight of credit 
and counterparty risk;  The Country Risk Committee oversees the identification, assessment, monitoring, reporting and mitigation, 
where necessary, of country risks;
The Trading and Markets Risk Committee, or TMRC, reviews the effectiveness of, and approves, the 

market risk framework at least annually; it is the most senior oversight and decision making committee for 
risk management within State Street Global Markets and the trading-and-clearing business of State Street 
Global Exchange;The Securities Finance Risk Management Committee provides oversight of the risks in our securities 
finance business, including collateral and margin policies;The Model Assessment Committee, or MAC, provides recommendations concerning technical modeling 

issues and validates financial models utilized by our business units;MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
92The Basel / ICAAP Oversight Committee, or BIOC, reviews and assesses compliance with regulatory 

capital rules, and oversees initiatives related to the development and enhancement of relevant reporting 
capabilities;The CCAR Steering Committee provides primary supervision of the stress tests performed in conformity 
with CCAR and the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, or Dodd-Frank Act, and 

is responsible for the overall management, review, and approval of all material assumptions, 

methodologies, and results of each stress scenario;The Recovery and Resolution Planning Committee oversees the development of recovery and resolution 
plans as required by regulation; The Fiduciary Review Committee reviews and assesses the risk management programs of those units in 
which State Street serves in a fiduciary capacity;  The Operational Risk Committee provides cross-business oversight of operational risk to identify, measure, 

manage and control operational risk in an effective and consistent manner across State Street; and
The Technology Risk Governance Committee provides regular reporting to the TORC and escalate 

technology risk issues to the TORC, as appropriate. 
Credit Risk Management
Core Policies and PrinciplesCredit and counterparty risk is defined as the risk of financial loss if a counterparty, borrower or obligor, 
referred to collectively as counterparties, is either unable or unwilling to repay borrowings or settle a transaction in 
accordance with underlying contractual terms. We assume credit and counterparty risk in our traditional non-trading 

lending activities (such as loans and contingent commitments), in our investment securities portfolio (where 
recourse to a counterparty exists), and in our direct or indemnified agency trading activities (such as securities 
lending and foreign exchange).  We also assume credit and counterparty risk in our day-to-day treasury and 

securities and other settlement operations, in the form of deposit placements and other cash balances with central banks or private sector institutions.     We distinguish between three kinds of credit and counterparty risk:  
Default risk is the risk that a counterparty fails to meet its contractual payment obligations;Country risk is the risk that we may suffer a loss, in any given country, due to any of the following reasons: 
deterioration of economic conditions, political and social upheaval, nationalization and appropriation of 
assets, government repudiation of indebtedness, exchange controls, and disruptive currency depreciation 
or devaluation; and Settlement risk is the risk that the settlement of clearance of transactions will fail, and arises whenever the 
exchange of cash, securities and/or other assets is not simultaneous.The extension of credit and the acceptance of counterparty risk are governed by corporate guidelines based on a counterparty's risk profile, the markets served, counterparty and country concentrations, and regulatory 
compliance.  These guidelines include reference to a number of core policies and principles:
All credit risks to each counterparty, or group of counterparties, are measured and consolidated in 

accordance with a ‚one obligor™ principle that aggregates all risks types across all business areas;
We seek to avoid or minimize undue concentrations of risk; counterparty (or groups of counterparties), 

industry, country and product-specific concentrations of risk are subject to frequent review and approval in 

accordance with State Street™s prevailing risk appetite;
All extensions of credit, or material changes to extensions of credit (such as its tenor, collateral structure or 

covenants), are approved by ERM in conformity with assigned credit-approval authorities;  We assign credit approval authorities to individuals according to their qualifications, experience and training, 

and review these authorities periodically; our largest exposures require approval by the Credit Committee; 
for certain small and low-risk extensions of credit, for certain counterparty types, approval authority has 
been granted to individuals outside of ERM; The creditworthiness of all counterparties is determined by way of a detailed risk assessment, including the 
use of comprehensive internal rating methodologies; all rating methodologies in use at State Street are 
authorized for use within the advanced internal-ratings-based approach under applicable Basel 
requirements; and    A review of the creditworthiness of all counterparties, as well as all extensions of credit, is undertaken at 

least annually; the nature and extent of these reviews is determined by the size, nature and tenor of the 
extensions of credit, as well as the creditworthiness of the counterparty.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
93All core policies and principles are subject to annual review, as an integral part of State Street™s periodic 
assessment of its risk appetite.GovernanceThe Credit Risk Management group is an integral part of ERM and is responsible for assessing, approving and monitoring all types of credit risk across State Street.  It has responsibility for all requisite policies and procedures, 
and for State Street™s advanced internal credit-rating systems and methodologies.  Additionally, Credit Risk 

Management, in conjunction with the appropriate business units, establishes appropriate measurements and limits 
to control the amount of credit risk accepted across its various business activities, both at a portfolio level and for 
each individual obligor, or group of obligors. 
A number of local committees within State Street are responsible for overseeing credit risk.  The Credit Risk 
and Policy Committee is responsible for approving policies and procedures, determining risk appetite and for routine 
monitoring of State Street™s credit-risk portfolio.  The Credit Committee has primary responsibility for the largest and 

higher-risk extensions of credit to individual obligors, or groups of obligors.  Both committees provide periodic 
updates to the MRAC and the RCC.Credit LimitsCentral to our philosophy for managing credit risk are the approval and imposition of credit limits, which reflect our credit risk appetite relative to the borrower or counterparty, its domicile, the nature of the risk and the country of 

risk.  The extent of our ongoing analysis, approval and monitoring of credit limits and exposure is determined by the 

type of borrower or counterparty, its prevailing credit-worthiness and the nature of the risk.  These processes are 

outlined in formal guidelines.  Credit limits on a singular and aggregated basis are regularly reassessed and periodically revised based on prevailing and anticipated market conditions, changes in counterparty, industry or country-specific characteristics 

and outlook and State Street's risk appetite.Global Counterparty Review State Street™s Global Counterparty Review, or GCR, team provides separate oversight of our counterparty 
credit risk management practices and provides senior management, as well as our auditors and regulators, with 
reporting needed to monitor and assess the effectiveness of prevailing practices.  Specific activities include, but are 

not limited to:Ł Separate and objective assessments of our credit and counterparty exposures to determine the nature and extent of risk undertaken by the business units; Ł Periodic business unit reviews, focusing on the assessment of credit analysis, policy compliance, prudent transaction structure and underwriting standards, administration and documentation, risk rating integrity, 

and relevant trends;Ł Identification and monitoring of developing trends to minimize risk of loss and protect capital;Ł Maintenance of risk-rating system integrity and assurance of counterparty risk-rating transparency through testing of ratings;Ł Providing resources for specialized risk assessments (on an as-needed basis);Ł Opining on the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses; andŁ Serving as liaison with auditors and banking regulators with respect to risk rating, reporting and measurement.Ongoing active monitoring and management of credit risk is an integral part of our credit risk management activities.  A robust surveillance and credit review process is followed by both our business units and by ERM.
Credit Risk MitigationTechniques used to mitigate counterparty credit risk include collateralizing our exposures, securing our 
exposures with a third-party guarantee, exercising our legal right of offset, or buying some form of credit insurance 

to offset our risk.  We primarily accept cash, equities, and government securities as collateral.
Although we do not provide credit risk protection or trade in credit default swaps, we have purchased a small number of credit default swaps for hedging purposes. Due to the immaterial notional amount of these swaps, we do 
not formally recognize the benefits of these credit derivatives.MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
94Reserve for Credit LossesWe maintain an allowance for loan losses to support our on-balance sheet credit exposures. We also maintain 
a reserve for unfunded commitments and letters of credit to support our off-balance credit exposure. The two 

components together represent the reserve for credit losses. Review and evaluation of the adequacy of the reserve 
for credit losses is ongoing throughout the year, but occurs at least quarterly, and is based, among other factors, on 

our evaluation of the level of risk in the portfolio, the volume of adversely classified loans, previous loss experience, 
current trends, and expected economic conditions and their effect on our counterparties.  Additional information 

about the allowance for loan losses is provided in note 5 to the consolidated financial statements included under 
Item 8 of this Form 10-K.Liquidity Risk ManagementLiquidity risk is defined as the potential that our financial condition or overall viability could be adversely affected by an actual or perceived inability to meet cash and collateral obligations.  The goal of liquidity risk 

management is to maintain, even in the event of stress, our ability to meet our cash and collateral obligations.  Liquidity is managed to meet our financial obligations in a timely and cost-effective manner, as well as maintain 
sufficient flexibility to fund strategic corporate initiatives as they arise.  Our effective management of liquidity 

involves the assessment of the potential mismatch between the future cash needs of our clients and our available 
sources of cash under both normal and adverse economic and business conditions. We generally manage our liquidity on a global, consolidated basis.  We also manage liquidity on a stand-alone 
basis at the parent company, as well as at certain branches and subsidiaries of State Street Bank.  State Street 

Bank generally has access to markets and funding sources limited to banks, such as the federal funds market and 
the Federal Reserve's discount window.   Our parent company is managed to a more conservative liquidity profile, 

reflecting narrower market access.  Our parent company typically holds enough cash, primarily in the form of 
interest-bearing deposits with its banking subsidiaries, to meet its current debt maturities and cash needs, as well 
as those projected over the next one-year period. As of December 31, 2013, the value of the parent company's net 

liquid assets totaled $4.42 billion, compared with $3.80 billion as of December 31, 2012.  Our parent company's 
liquid assets generally consist of overnight placements with its banking subsidiaries.Based on our level of consolidated liquid assets and our ability to access the capital markets for additional funding when necessary, including our ability to issue debt and equity securities under our current universal shelf 

registration, management considers State Street's overall liquidity as of December 31, 2013 to be sufficient to meet 

its current commitments and business needs, including accommodating the transaction and cash management 
needs of its clients.GovernanceGlobal Treasury is responsible for our management of liquidity.  This includes the day-to-day management of 
our global liquidity position, the development and monitoring of early warning indicators, key liquidity risk metrics, 
the creation and execution of stress tests, the evaluation and implementation of regulatory requirements, the 
maintenance and execution of our liquidity guidelines and contingency funding plan, and routine management 
reporting to ALCCO and the RCC.
Global Treasury Risk Management, part of ERM, provides separate oversight over the identification, 
communication and management of Global Treasury™s risks in support of our business strategy. Global Treasury 

Risk Management reports to the CRO. Global Treasury Risk Management™s responsibilities relative to liquidity risk 

management include the development and review of policies and guidelines; the monitoring of limits related to 
adherence to the liquidity risk guidelines and associated reporting.  Specific committees responsible for liquidity risk 
oversight and governance include ALCCO and the RCC.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
95Liquidity FrameworkOur liquidity framework contemplates areas of potential risk based on our activities, size, and other appropriate risk-related factors. In managing liquidity risk, we employ limits, maintain established metrics and early warning 
indicators and perform routine stress testing to identify potential liquidity needs. This process involves the evaluation 

of a combination of internal and external scenarios which assist us in measuring our liquidity position and in 
identifying potential increases in cash needs or decreases in available sources of cash, as well as the potential 
impairment of our ability to access the global capital markets.We manage liquidity according to several principles that are equally important to our overall liquidity risk 
management framework:Ł Structural liquidity management addresses liquidity by monitoring and directing the composition of our 
consolidated statement of condition.  Structural liquidity is measured by metrics such as the percentage of 
total wholesale funds to consolidated total assets, and the percentage of non-government investment 
securities to client deposits.  In addition, on a regular basis and as described further below, our structural 

liquidity is evaluated under various stress scenarios.  Ł Tactical liquidity management addresses our day-to-day funding requirements and is largely driven by 
changes in our primary source of funding, which is client deposits.  Fluctuations in client deposits may be 
supplemented with short-term borrowings, which generally include commercial paper and certificates of 
deposit.Ł Stress testing and contingent funding planning are longer-term strategic liquidity risk management 
practices.  Regular and ad-hoc liquidity stress testing are performed under various unlikely but plausible 
scenarios at the parent company and at significant subsidiaries, including State Street Bank.  These tests 

contemplate severe market and State Street-specific events under various time horizons and severities.  
Tests contemplate the impact of material changes in key funding sources, credit ratings, additional collateral 

requirements, contingent uses of funding, systemic shocks to the financial markets, and operational failures 
based on market and State Street-specific assumptions.  The stress tests evaluate the required level of 

funding versus available sources in an adverse environment.  As stress testing contemplates potential 

forward-looking scenarios, results also serve as a trigger to activate specific liquidity stress levels and 
contingent funding actions.  Contingency Funding Plans, or ﬁCFPsﬂ, are designed to assist senior management with decision-making associated with any contingency funding response to a crisis scenario.  The CFPs define roles, responsibilities and 

management actions to be undertaken in the event of deterioration of our liquidity profile caused by either a State 
Street-specific event or a broader disruption in the capital markets. Specific actions are linked to the level of stress 
indicated by these measures or by management judgment of market conditions.Liquidity Risk MetricsIn managing our liquidity, we employ early warning indicators and metrics.  Early warning indicators are 
intended to detect situations which may result in a liquidity stress, including changes in our common stock price and 
the spread on our long-term debt.  Additional metrics that are critical to the management of our consolidated 

statement of condition and monitored as part of routine liquidity management include measures of our fungible cash 
position, purchased wholesale funds, unencumbered liquid assets, deposits, and the total investment securities and 
loans as a percentage of total client deposits.Asset LiquidityCentral to the management of our liquidity is asset liquidity, which generally consists of unencumbered highly liquid 
securities, cash and cash equivalents carried in our consolidated statement of condition. We restrict the eligibility of 

securities for asset liquidity to U.S. Government and federal agency securities (including mortgage-backed securities) and 
selected non-U.S. Government and supranational securities, which generally are more liquid than other types of assets. 
The following table presents the components of our asset liquidity balance as of the dates and for the years indicated:MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
96(In millions)December 31,2013December 31,2012Asset Liquidity:     Highly liquid short-term investments(1)$64,257$50,763     Investment securities22,32127,429     Total
$86,578$78,192Average Asset Liquidity:
     Highly liquid short-term investments(1)$28,946$26,823     Investment securities22,03228,031     Total
$50,978$54,854(1) Composed of interest-bearing deposits with banks.Due to the continued elevated level of client deposits as of December 31, 2013, we maintained cash balances in excess of regulatory requirements of approximately $51.03 billion at the Federal Reserve, the ECB and other 
non-U.S. central banks, compared to $41.11 billion as of December 31, 2012
.Liquid securities included in our asset liquidity include securities pledged without corresponding advances from the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, or FRB, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Boston, or FHLB, and other non-U.S. 
central banks.  State Street Bank is a member of the FHLB.  This membership allows for advances of liquidity in 

varying terms against high-quality collateral, which helps facilitate asset-and-liability management of depository 
institutions.  Access to primary, intra-day and contingent liquidity provided by these utilities is an important source of 
contingent liquidity with utilization subject to underlying conditions.  As of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 

2012, State Street Bank had no outstanding primary credit borrowings from the FRB discount window or any other 
central bank facility, and as of the same dates, no FHLB advances were outstanding.
In addition to the securities included in our asset liquidity, we have significant amounts of other high-quality 
investment securities, corporate securities and loans.  The aggregate fair value of those assets was $66.16 billion 

as of December 31, 2013, compared to $65.70 billion as of December 31, 2012. These securities are available 

sources of liquidity, although not as rapidly deployed as those included in our asset liquidity.
Uses of LiquiditySignificant uses of our liquidity could result from the following: withdrawals of unsecured client deposits; draw-downs of unfunded commitments to extend credit or to purchase securities, generally provided through lines of 
credit; and short-duration advance facilities.  Such circumstances would generally arise under stress conditions 
including deterioration in credit ratings.  We had unfunded commitments to extend credit with gross contractual 

amounts totaling $21.30 billion and $17.86 billion as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  These amounts 

do not reflect the value of any collateral. Approximately 75% of our unfunded commitments to extend credit expire 

within one year from the date of issuance. Since many of our commitments are expected to expire or renew without 
being drawn upon, the gross contractual amounts do not necessarily represent our future cash requirements.FundingDeposits: Our Investment Servicing line of business provides products and services including custody, accounting, 
administration, daily pricing, foreign exchange services, cash management, financial asset management, securities 
lending and investment advisory services.  As a provider of these products and services, we generate client 

deposits, which have generally provided a stable, low-cost source of funds.  As a global custodian, clients place 

deposits with State Street entities in various currencies. These client deposits are invested in a combination of 

investment securities and short-duration financial instruments whose mix is determined by the characteristics of the 
deposits. We typically experience higher client deposit inflows toward the end of the quarter or the end of the year.  As a 
result, average client deposit balances are deemed to be more meaningful than period-end balances. The following 

table presents client deposit balances as of the dates and for the years indicated:MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
97(In millions)December 31,
Average BalanceYear Ended December 31,2013201220132012
Client deposits(1)$182,268
$150,617
$143,043
$127,658
(1) Balance as of December 31, 2012 excluded term wholesale certificates of deposit, or CDs, of $13.56 billion; average balances for the years ended December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012 excluded average CDs of $2.50 billion and $7.25 billion, respectively. 
Short-Term Funding: 
In managing our liquidity, from time to time we utilize short-term funding, including term wholesale certificates 
of deposit, or CDs, corporate commercial paper and other borrowed funds, generally with maturities of one year or 
less.  As described above, usage is evaluated as part of our liquidity framework.  As of December 31, 2013, no CDs 

were outstanding, compared to $13.56 billion as of December 31, 2012, as client deposits remained stable.  Our 
corporate commercial paper program, under which we can issue up to $3 billion of commercial paper with original 
maturities of up to 270 days from the date of issuance, had $1.82 billion of commercial paper outstanding as of 
December 31, 2013, compared to $2.32 billion as of December 31, 2012. Our on-balance sheet liquid assets are also an integral component of our liquidity management strategy.  
These assets provide liquidity through maturities of the assets, but more importantly, they provide us with the ability 

to raise funds by pledging the securities as collateral for borrowings or through outright sales. In addition, our 
access to the global capital markets gives us the ability to source incremental funding at reasonable rates of interest 
from wholesale investors.  As discussed earlier under ﬁAsset Liquidity,ﬂ State Street Bank's membership in the 

FHLB allows for advances of liquidity in varying terms against high-quality collateral.  Short-term secured funding also comes in the form of securities lent or sold under agreements to repurchase.  These transactions are short-term in nature, generally overnight, and are collateralized by high-quality investment 
securities. The balances associated with this activity are generally stable, as they represent a collateralized cash 

investment option for our investment servicing clients.  These balances were $7.95 billion and $8.01 billion as of 

December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively.
State Street Bank currently maintains a line of credit with a financial institution of CAD $800 million, or approximately $753 million as of December 31, 2013, to support its Canadian securities processing operations.  The 

line of credit has no stated termination date and is cancelable by either party with prior notice.  As of December 31, 

2013, there was no balance outstanding on this line of credit. Long-Term Funding:
 As of December 31, 2013, State Street Bank had Board authority to issue unsecured senior debt securities from time to time, provided that the aggregate principal amount of such unsecured senior debt outstanding at any 
one time does not exceed $5 billion.  As of December 31, 2013, $4.1 billion was available for issuance pursuant to 

this authority.  As of December 31, 2013, State Street Bank had Board authority to issue up to $1.5 billion of 

subordinated debt, incremental to subordinated debt outstanding as of the same date.  As of December 31, 2013, 

$500 million was available for issuance pursuant to this authority.  Additional information about debt securities 

issued by State Street Bank is provided in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of 
this Form 10-K.We maintain an effective universal shelf registration that allows for the public offering and sale of debt 
securities, capital securities, common stock, depositary shares and preferred stock, and warrants to purchase such 
securities, including any shares into which the preferred stock and depositary shares may be convertible, or any 
combination thereof.  We have issued in the past, and we may issue in the future, securities pursuant to our shelf 

registration.  The issuance of debt or equity securities will depend on future market conditions, funding needs and 

other factors.  Additional information about debt and equity securities issued pursuant to this shelf registration is 

provided in notes 10 and 13 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.Agency Credit RatingsOur ability to maintain consistent access to liquidity is fostered by the maintenance of high investment-grade ratings as measured by the major independent credit rating agencies. Factors essential to maintaining high credit 
ratings include diverse and stable core earnings; relative market position, strong risk management; strong capital 
ratios; diverse liquidity sources, including the global capital markets and client deposits; strong liquidity monitoring 
procedures; and current or future regulatory developments.  High ratings minimize borrowing costs and enhance MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
98our liquidity by providing assurance for unsecured funding and depositors, increasing the potential market for our 
debt and improving our ability to offer products, serve markets, and engage in transactions in which clients value 

high credit ratings. A downgrade or reduction of our credit ratings could have a material adverse effect on our 

liquidity by restricting our ability to access the capital markets, increasing the related cost of funds, causing the 
sudden and large-scale withdrawal of unsecured deposits by our clients, leading to draw-downs of unfunded 
commitments to extend credit or triggering requirements under securities purchase commitments, or require 
additional collateral or force terminations of certain trading derivative contracts. A majority of our derivative contracts have been entered into under bilateral agreements with counterparties 
who may require us to post collateral or terminate the transactions based on changes in our credit ratings. We 

assess the impact of these arrangements by determining the collateral or termination payments that would be 
required assuming a downgrade by all rating agencies. The table below presents the additional collateral or 

termination payments related to our net derivative liabilities under these arrangements that could have been called 
as of the dates indicated by counterparties in the event of a one-notch and two-notch downgrade in our credit 
ratings. Other funding sources, such as secured financing transactions and other margin requirements, for which 
there are no explicit triggers, could also be adversely affected.
(In millions)December 31,2013December 31,2012Additional collateral or termination payments for a one- or two-notch downgrade$7$13
The following table presents information about State Street's and State Street Bank's credit ratings as of February 21, 2014:  Standard &Poor™s
Moody™s
InvestorsServiceFitch
DominionBond RatingServiceState Street:Short-term commercial paperA-1P-1F1+R1 (Middle)
Senior debtA+A1A+AA (Low)
Subordinated debtAA2AA (High)
Trust preferred capital securitiesBBB+A3BBBA (High)
Preferred stockBBB+Baa2BBB-A (Low)
OutlookNegativeStablePositiveStable
State Street Bank:Short-term depositsA-1+P-1F1+R-1 (High)
Short-term letters of credit-P-1--
Long-term depositsAA-Aa3AA-  AA
Long-term letters of credit-Aa3--
Senior debtAA-Aa3A+AA
Long-term counterparty/issuerAA-Aa3A+-
Subordinated debtA+A1AAA (Low)
Financial strength-B---
OutlookStable  StablePositiveStable
Proposed Liquidity FrameworkIn October 2013, U.S. banking regulators issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, or NPR, intended to implement the Basel Committee's Liquidity Coverage Ratio, or LCR, in the U.S. The LCR is intended to promote the 

short-term resilience of the liquidity risk profile of internationally active banking organizations, improve the banking 
industry's ability to absorb shocks arising from financial and economic stress, and improve the measurement and 
management of liquidity risk. The proposed LCR would require a covered banking organization to maintain an amount of high-quality liquid assets, or HQLA, equal to or greater than 100% of the banking organization™s total net 

cash outflows over a 30-calendar-day period of significant liquidity stress, as defined.  The October 2013 NPR 

would be phased in beginning on January 1, 2015 at 80% with full implementation by January 1, 2017. As an 

internationally active banking organization, we expect to be subject to the LCR standard in the U.S., as well as in 
other jurisdictions in which we operate.  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
99 The NPR is generally consistent with the Basel Committee™s LCR.  However, it includes certain more stringent 
requirements, including an accelerated implementation time line and modifications to the definition of high-quality 
liquid assets and expected outflow assumptions.  We continue to analyze the proposed rules and analyze their 

impact as well as develop strategies for compliance.  The principles of the LCR are consistent with our liquidity 

management framework; however, the specific calibrations of various elements within the final LCR rule, such as 

the eligibility of assets as HQLA, operational deposit requirements and net outflow requirements could have a 
material effect on our liquidity, funding and business activities, including the management and composition of our 

investment securities portfolio and our ability to extend committed contingent credit facilities to our clients. In January 2014, the Basel Committee released a revised proposal with respect to the Net Stable Funding Ratio, or NSFR, which will establish a one-year liquidity standard representing the proportion of long-term assets 
funded by long-term stable funding, scheduled for global implementation in 2018.  The revised NSFR has made 

some favorable changes regarding the treatment of operationally linked deposits and a reduction in the funding 
required for certain securities.  However, we continue to review the specifics of the Basel Committee's release and 

will be evaluating the U.S. implementation of this standard to analyze the impact and develop strategies for 
compliance.  U.S. banking regulators have not yet issued a proposal to implement the NSFR.Contractual Cash Obligations and Other CommitmentsThe following table presents our long-term contractual cash obligations, in total and by period due as of December 31, 2013.  These obligations were recorded in our consolidated statement of condition as of that date, 

except for operating leases and the interest portions of long-term debt and capital leases.     CONTRACTUAL CASH OBLIGATIONS
 PAYMENTS DUE BY PERIODAs of December 31, 2013(In millions)Total
Less than 1year1-3years4-5yearsOver 5yearsLong-term debt(1)$10,630$1,015$2,979$2,260$4,376
Operating leases923208286209220
Capital lease obligations1,05199185169598
Total contractual cash obligations$12,604$1,322$3,450$2,638$5,194
(1)  Long-term debt excludes capital lease obligations (presented as a separate line item) and the effect of interest-rate swaps. In
terest payments were calculated at the stated rate with the exception of floating-rate debt, for which payments were calculated using the indexed rate in effect 
as of December 31, 2013. The table above does not include obligations which will be settled in cash, primarily in less than one year, such 
as client deposits, federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase agreements and other short-term 
borrowings. Additional information about deposits, federal funds purchased, securities sold under repurchase 

agreements and other short-term borrowings is provided in notes 8 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements 
included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K. The table does not include obligations related to derivative instruments because the derivative-related amounts recorded in our consolidated statement of condition as of December 31, 2013 did not represent the amounts that 
may ultimately be paid under the contracts upon settlement. Additional information about our derivative instruments 

is provided in note 16 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K. We have 

obligations under pension and other post-retirement benefit plans, more fully described in note 19 to the 
consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K, which are not included in the above 
table. Additional information about contractual cash obligations related to long-term debt and operating and capital leases is provided in notes 10 and 20 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 
10-K.  Our consolidated statement of cash flows, also included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K, provides additional 
liquidity information. The following table presents our commitments, other than the contractual cash obligations presented above, in total and by duration as of December 31, 2013.  These commitments were not recorded in our consolidated 

statement of condition as of that date.     MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
100OTHER COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS  
 DURATION OF COMMITMENTAs of December 31, 2013(In millions)Total
amountscommitted(1)Less than1 year1-3years4-5yearsOver 5yearsIndemnified securities financing$320,078$320,078$Š$Š$Š
Unfunded commitments to extend credit21,29615,9812,5172,449349
Asset purchase agreements4,6851,8922,296497Š
Standby letters of credit4,5121,6512,006855Š
Purchase obligations(2)3618210244133
Total commercial commitments$350,932$339,684$6,921$3,845$482
(1)  Total amounts committed reflect participations to independent third parties, if any. 
(2)  Amounts represent obligations pursuant to legally binding agreements, where we have agreed to purchase products or services with a specific minimum quantity defined at a fixed, minimum or variable price over a specified period of time.  Additional information about the commitments presented in the table above, except for purchase obligations, is provided in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K. 
Operational Risk ManagementWe define operational risk as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes and 
systems, human error, or from external events.  At State Street, this definition encompasses legal risk and fiduciary 

risk.  We define legal risk as the risk of loss resulting from failure to comply with laws and contractual obligations as 

well as prudent ethical standards, in addition to exposure to litigation from all aspects of our activities.  Fiduciary risk 
arises if, in acting on behalf of our clients, we fail to properly exercise discretion or we do not properly monitor or 
control the exercise of discretion by a third party.
In the conduct of our investment servicing and investment management activities, we assume operational risk.  The products and services we provide to our clients, such as custody; product- and participant-level accounting; 
daily pricing and administration; master trust and master custody; record-keeping; cash management; foreign 
exchange, and the management of financial assets using passive and active strategies, can result in execution risk, 
business practice risk, fiduciary risk and other types of operational risk.  Because operational risk is process-
oriented, compared to other risks, for example credit risk and market risk, which are transaction-oriented, our ability 
to influence and manage risk-taking rests at the process level, and requires a broad set of process controls.Whereas operational risk represents the potential, an operational risk event is the actual occurrence of the risk.  An operational risk event that gives rise to a direct financial impact is referred to as an operational risk loss or gain. 
If there is no financial impact, the event is termed a ﬁnear-miss.ﬂFrameworkWe have developed a comprehensive approach to operational risk management that is consistently applied 
across State Street.  This approach, referred to as our operational risk framework, takes a holistic view and 

integrates the different methods and tools used to manage operational risk.  The framework, which was developed 

by our Operational Risk Management group and utilizes aspects of the framework of the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission, or the COSO framework, and industry/peer leading practices, is 

designed to comply with Basel requirements. Our operational risk framework seeks to provide a number of 
important benefits, including:The alignment of business priorities with risk management objectives;The active management of risk and the avoidance of surprises;The clarification of responsibilities for the management of operational risk;A common understanding of operational risk management and its supporting processes; and
The consistent application of policies and collection of data for risk management and measurement.The framework is composed of two mutually reinforcing areas, foundational elements and framework components.  The three foundational elements used to consistently implement the framework across the diverse 

groups within State Street are governance, documentation, and communication/awareness.  The framework also 

contains five components that provide overarching structure that integrates distinct risk programs into a continuous MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
101process focused on managing and measuring operational risk in a coordinated and consistent manner.  The 

individual components and the objectives of each component are:Identify, assess and measure risk - understand business unit strategy, risk profile and potential exposure;  
Monitor risk - proactively monitor the business environment and associated operational risk exposure;   Evaluate and test controls - verify that internal controls are designed appropriately, are consistent with 

corporate and regulatory standards, and are operating effectively;  
Provide integrated management reporting - facilitate management's ability to maintain control, provide 
oversight and escalate issues in a timely manner; and  Support risk-based decision making - make conscious risk-based decisions and understand the trade-off 

between risk and return.  We maintain an operational risk policy, under which we endeavor to effectively manage operational risk in 
order to support the achievement of our corporate objectives and fully comply with any related regulatory 
requirements.  We achieve these policy objectives through the implementation of our operational risk framework, 

which describes the integrated set of processes and tools that assist us in managing and measuring operational 
risk. Our operational risk policy is approved annually by the RCC.  The purpose of the policy is to set forth our 
approach to the management of operational risk, to identify the responsibilities of individuals and committees 
charged with overseeing the management of operational risk, and to provide a broad mandate that supports 
implementation of the operational risk framework.GuidelinesAs part of our operational risk framework, we have also developed operational risk guidelines which document in greater detail our practices and describe the key elements that should be present in a business unit's operational 
risk management program.  The purpose of the guidelines is to set forth and define key operational risk terms, 

provide further detail on State Street's operational risk programs, and detail business unit responsibilities for the 
identification, assessment, measurement, monitoring and reporting of operational risk.  The guidelines support the 

operational risk policy and document our practices used to manage and measure operational risk in an effective and 

consistent manner across State Street. We have a number of operational risk tools and processes in use that are corporate-wide in application or 
coverage.  These tools include a series of risk assessments and diagnostics, at the business unit level, across the 

risk spectrum aimed at the identification of risks that occur routinely through normal operations, strategic risks that 
may arise over a longer-term horizon and risks that occur very infrequently but which could materially affect State 

Street.  Further, these assessments allow management to define risk mitigation strategies and set action plans for 

implementation.State Street monitors the level and trend of its operational risk profile through a series of management reports, risk assessment outcomes, risk mitigation initiative process and risk metrics. Together, this data allows us to 

understand our risk profile, our progress on managing risk and changes in the environment both internal and 
external which may affect our risk profile. In addition, we use scenario analysis to provide a forward-looking 

assessment of large operational risk events that we may not have experienced yet.In order for these tools and programs to meet framework objectives, we have implemented comprehensive data collection practices and consistent risk classification standards that facilitate the analysis of risks across the 
company.  In addition, we have established standards for operational risk data for the purpose of maintaining data 

repositories and systems that are controlled, accurate and available on a timely basis to support operational risk 
management.GovernanceThe roles and responsibilities with respect to the management of operational risk at State Street reflect the following four key principles: Board oversight of our operational risk framework is primarily the responsibility of the RCC, which annually 
reviews and approves our operational risk policy and delegates day-to-day oversight to ERM;Senior business unit managers are responsible for the management of operational risk; ERM and other corporate groups provide separate oversight, validation and verification of the management 
and measurement of operational risk; andExecutive management provides oversight through participation on risk-management committees and direct 
management of risk in business activities.MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
102The key responsibilities of these groups with respect to operational risk are described below:The RCC approves our operational risk policy, delegates the implementation and monitoring of the 

operational risk guidelines, framework and related programs to ERM, and reviews periodic reporting of 
management information related to operational risk.Senior business unit management is responsible for the direct management of operational risk arising from 
our business activities, as well as operational risk oversight through representation on the MRAC, the 
TORC and the local Operational Risk and Fiduciary Review Committees.
A number of corporate groups have responsibility for developing, implementing, and assessing various aspects 
of State Street's operational risk framework: ERM™s Corporate Operational Risk Management group is responsible for the development and 

implementation of State Street's operational risk guidelines, framework and supporting tools.  It also reviews 
and analyzes operational key risk information, metrics and indicators at the business line and corporate 
level for purposes of reporting and escalating operational risk events.ERM™s Corporate Risk Analytics group develops and maintains operational risk capital estimation models 

and regularly calculates State Street's operational risk regulatory capital requirements;ERM™s Model Governance group separately validates the quantitative models used to measure operational 

risk; andCorporate Audit performs separate reviews of the application of operational risk management practices and 

methodologies utilized across State Street.Operational risk management at State Street includes both the corporate Operational Risk Management group, led by the global head of Operational Risk, who is a member of the CRO™s executive management team, and a 

distributed risk management infrastructure that is aligned with our business units.  The risk management groups 

aligned with the business units report directly to the CRO, and have operational risk managers who are responsible 
for the implementation of the operational risk framework at the business unit level.Market Risk ManagementMarket risk is defined by U.S. banking regulators as the risk of loss that could result from broad market movements, such as changes in the general level of interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates or 
commodity prices.  State Street is exposed to market risk in both its trading and certain of its non-trading, or asset-
and-liability management, activities.  The market risk management processes related to these activities, discussed 

in further detail below, apply to both on- and off-balance sheet exposures.
In the conduct of our trading and investment activities, we assume market risk.  The level of market risk that 
we assume is a function of our overall risk appetite, business objectives and liquidity needs, our clients' 
requirements and market volatility, and our execution against those factors.  Market risk associated with our trading 

activities is discussed below under ﬁTrading Activities.ﬂ  In addition, supplemental qualitative and quantitative 

information with respect to market risk associated with our trading activities is provided on the ﬁInvestor Relationsﬂ 
section of our website.Market risk associated with our non-trading activities, which consists primarily of interest-rate risk, is discussed under ﬁAsset-and-Liability Management Activities.ﬂ
Trading Activities
We engage in trading activities primarily to support our clients' needs and to contribute to our overall corporate 
earnings and liquidity.  In connection with certain of these trading activities, we enter into a variety of derivative 

financial instruments to support our clients' needs and to manage our interest-rate and currency risk.  These 

activities are generally intended to generate trading services revenue and to manage potential earnings volatility. In 

addition, we provide services related to derivatives in our role as both a manager and a servicer of financial assets.  
Our clients use derivatives to manage the financial risks associated with their investment goals and business 
activities.  With the growth of cross-border investing, our clients often enter into foreign exchange forward contracts 
to convert currency for international investments and to manage the currency risk in their international investment 
portfolios.  As an active participant in the foreign exchange markets, we provide foreign exchange forward and 

option contracts in support of these client needs, and also act as a dealer in the currency markets.   As part of our trading activities, we assume positions in the foreign exchange and interest-rate markets by buying and selling cash instruments and entering into derivative instruments, including foreign exchange forward 
contracts, foreign exchange and interest-rate options and interest-rate swaps, interest-rate forward contracts, and MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
103interest-rate futures.  As of December 31, 2013, the aggregate notional amount of these derivative contracts was 

$1.13 trillion, of which $1.12 trillion was composed of foreign exchange forward, swap and spot contracts.  In the 
aggregate, we seek to match positions closely with the objective of minimizing related currency and interest-rate 
risk.  All foreign exchange contracts are valued daily at current market rates.  Additional information about derivative 

instruments entered into in connection with our trading activities is provided in note 16 to the consolidated financial 
statements under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.GovernanceOur assumption of market risk in our trading activities is an integral part of our corporate risk appetite.  The 
Board reviews and oversees our management of market risk, including the approval of key market risk policies and 
the receipt and review of regular market risk reporting, as well as periodic updates on selected market risk topics. The Trading and Markets Risk Committee, or TMRC, oversees all market risk-taking activities across State 
Street associated with trading.  The TMRC is composed of members of ERM, our Global Markets business, our 

Global Treasury group, our senior executives who manage our trading businesses, and other members of 

management who possess specialized knowledge and expertise.  Under authority delegated by the MRAC, the 
TMRC is responsible for the formulation of guidelines, strategies and work flows with respect to the measurement, 
monitoring and control of our trading market risk, and also approves market risk tolerance limits and dealing 
authorities.  The TMRC meets regularly to monitor the management of our trading market risk activities. 
Our business units identify, actively manage and are responsible for the market risks inherent in their 
businesses.  A dedicated market risk management group within ERM, and other groups within ERM, work with 

those business units to assist them in the identification, assessment, monitoring, management and control of market 
risk, and assist business unit managers with their market risk management and measurement activities.  ERM 
provides an additional line of oversight, support and coordination designed to promote the consistent identification, 
measurement and management of market risk across business units, separate from those business units' discrete 
activities.  The ERM market risk management group is responsible for the management of corporate-wide market risk, the monitoring of key market risks and the development and maintenance of market risk management policies, 
guidelines, and standards aligned with our corporate risk appetite.  This market risk management group also 

establishes and approves market risk tolerance limits and dealing authorities based on, but not limited to, notional 
amount measures, sensitivity measures, Value-at-Risk, or VaR, measures and stress measures.  Such limits and 

authorities are specified in our trading and market risk guidelines which govern our management of trading market 
risk.Our management of market risk associated with trading activities and our calculation of required regulatory capital are based primarily on our internal VaR models and stress-testing analysis.  As discussed in the ﬁValue-at-

Riskﬂ section below, VaR is measured daily by ERM.
Market risk exposure is established in relation to limits established within our risk appetite framework. These 
limits define threshold levels for VaR- and stressed VaR-based measures and are applicable to all trading positions 

subject to regulatory capital requirements.Covered Positions Our trading positions are subject to regulatory market risk capital requirements if they meet the regulatory definition of a ﬁcovered position.ﬂ  The identification of covered positions for inclusion in our market risk capital 

framework is governed by our covered positions policy.  This policy outlines the standards we use to determine 

whether a trading position is a covered position.Our covered positions consist primarily of those arising from the trading portfolios held by our Global Markets business.  These trading portfolios include products such as spot foreign exchange, foreign exchange forwards, 

non-deliverable forwards, foreign exchange options, foreign exchange funding swaps, currency futures, financial 
futures, and interest rate futures.  Covered positions also arise from certain portfolios held by our Global Treasury 

group.  Any new activities are analyzed to determine if the positions arising from such new activities meet the 

definition of a covered position and conform to our covered positions policy.  This documented analysis, including 

any decisions with respect to market risk treatments, must receive approval from the TMRC.
Value-at-Risk, Stress Testing and Stressed VaR
As noted above, we use a variety of risk measurement tools and methodologies, including VaR, which is an 
estimate of potential loss for a given period within a stated statistical confidence interval.  We use a risk 

measurement methodology to measure trading-related VaR daily.  We have adopted standards for measuring 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
104trading-related VaR, and we maintain regulatory capital for market risk associated with our trading activities in 

conformity with currently applicable bank regulatory market risk guidelines.We utilize an internal VaR model to calculate our regulatory market risk capital requirements. We use a 
historical simulation model to calculate daily VaR- and stressed VaR-based measures for our covered positions in 

conformity with regulatory requirements that became effective beginning on January 1, 2013.  Our VaR model seeks 

to capture identified material risk factors associated with our covered positions, including risks arising from market 
movements such as changes in foreign exchange rates, interest rates and option-implied volatilities.We have adopted standards and guidelines to value our covered positions which govern our VaR- and stressed 
VaR-based measures.  Our regulatory VaR-based measure is calculated based on a one-tail, 99% confidence 

interval and a ten-business-day holding period, using a historical observation period of two years.  We also use the 

same platform to calculate a one-tail, 99% confidence interval, one-business-day VaR for internal risk management 

purposes.  A 99% one-tail confidence interval implies that daily trading losses are not expected to exceed the 

estimated VaR more than 1% of the time, or less than three business days out of a year. 
Our market risk models, including our VaR model, are subject to change in connection with the governance, 
validation and back-testing processes described below.  These models can change as a result of changes in our 

business activities, our historical experiences, market forces and events, regulations and regulatory interpretations 
and other factors.  In addition, the models are subject to continuing regulatory review and approval.Value-at-Risk:
VaR measures are based on two years of historical price movements for instruments and related risk factors to 
which we have exposure.  The instruments in question are limited to foreign exchange spot, forward and options 

contracts and interest-rate contracts, including futures and interest-rate swaps.   Our VaR methodology uses a historical simulation approach based on market-observed changes in foreign 
exchange rates, U.S. and non-U.S. interest rates and implied volatilities, and incorporates the resulting 
diversification benefits provided from the mix of our trading positions.  Our VaR model incorporates around 5,000 

risk factors and captures correlations among currency, interest rates, and other market rates.
Stress Testing and Stressed VaR:
We have a corporate-wide stress-testing program in place that incorporates an array of techniques to measure 
the potential loss we could suffer in a hypothetical scenario of adverse economic and financial conditions.  We also 

monitor concentrations of risk such as concentration by branch, risk component, and currency pairs.  We conduct 

stress testing on a daily basis based on selected historical stress events that are relevant to our positions in order to 
estimate the potential impact to our current portfolio should similar market conditions recur, and we also perform 

stress testing as part of the Federal Reserve's CCAR process.  Stress testing is conducted, analyzed and reported 
at the corporate, trading desk, division and risk-factor level (for example, exchange risk, interest-rate risk and 
volatility risk).We calculate a stressed VaR-based measure using the same model we use to calculate VaR, but with model 
inputs calibrated to historical data from a range of continuous twelve-month periods that reflect significant financial 
stress.  The sixty-day moving average of our stressed VaR-based measure was approximately $28 million for the 

twelve months ended December 31, 2013, compared to a sixty-day moving average of approximately $27 million for 
the twelve months ended September 30, 2013, approximately $19 million for the twelve months ended June 30, 
2013, and approximately $16 million for the twelve months ended March 31, 2013.  The increase in the sixty-day 

moving average for the twelve months ended December 31, 2013 and September 30, 2013 compared to the twelve 
months ended June 30, 2013 was associated with the model changes described below following the VaR and 

stressed-VaR tables. 
Stress-testing results and limits are actively monitored on a daily basis by ERM and reported to the TMRC.  
Limit breaches are addressed by ERM risk managers in conjunction with the business units, escalated as 
appropriate, and reviewed by the TMRC if material.  In addition, we have established several action triggers that 

prompt immediate review by management and the implementation of a remediation plan.Validation and Back-Testing
We perform daily back-testing to assess the accuracy of our VaR-based model in estimating loss at the stated 
confidence level.  This back-testing involves the comparison of estimated VaR model outputs to actual profit-and-

loss, or P&L, outcomes observed from daily market movements.  We back-test our VaR model using ﬁcleanﬂ P&L, 

which excludes non-trading revenue such as fees, commissions and net interest revenue, as well as estimated 
revenue from intra-day trading.  We experienced one back-testing exception on September 18, 2013.  The trading 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
105P&L that day exceeded the VaR based on the prior day™s closing positions, following larger-than-usual moves in 

several emerging market currencies and U.S. interest rates.  The moves occurred in reaction to the Federal 

Reserve™s announcement that they would postpone the start of their withdrawal of monetary stimulus (tapering of 

quantitative easing).  Our market risk models are governed by our model risk governance guidelines, in accordance with our model risk governance policy, which outline the standards we use to assess the conceptual soundness and effectiveness 

of our models. Our market risk models are subject to regular review and validation by our Model Validation group 

within ERM and overseen by the MAC.  The MAC, chaired by a senior executive in ERM, was established for the 

purpose of providing recommendations on technical modeling issues to the corporate oversight committees.  The 

MAC includes members with expertise in modeling methodologies and has representation from the various 
business units throughout State Street.  Additional information is provided below under ﬁModel Risk Management.ﬂ  
Our model validation process also evaluates the integrity of our VaR models through the use of regular 
outcome analysis. Such outcome analysis includes back-testing, which compares the VaR model's predictions to 

actual outcomes using out-of-sample information.  The Model Validation Group examined back-testing results for 

the market risk regulatory capital model used for 2012. Consistent with regulatory guidance, the back-testing 
compared ﬁcleanﬂ P&L, defined above, with the one-day VaR produced by the model.  The back-testing was 

performed for a time period not used for model development.  The number of occurrences where ﬁcleanﬂ trading-

book P&L exceeded the one-day VaR was within our expected VaR tolerance level.
The following tables present VaR associated with our trading activities for covered positions held during the 
year ended December 31, 2013, and as of December 31, 2013, September 30, 2013, June 30, 2013 and March 31, 
2013, as measured by our VaR methodology.  Comparative information for 2012 is not presented, as we did not 

measure VaR for those periods under the regulatory requirements which were effective beginning on January 1, 

2013. VaR - COVERED PORTFOLIOS(TEN-DAY VaR)Year Ended December 31, 2013
As ofDecember 31,2013As ofSeptember 30,2013As ofJune 30,2013As ofMarch 31,2013(In thousands)AverageMaximumMinimumVaRVaRVaRVaR
Foreign exchange$6,386$22,835$1,626$5,463
$11,549$5,696$9,283
Money market/Global Treasury975592458
10253365
Total VaR$6,361$22,834$1,641$5,441
$11,496$5,657$9,017
STRESSED VaR - COVEREDPORTFOLIOS
(TEN-DAY VaR)Year Ended December 31, 2013
As ofDecember 31,2013As ofSeptember 30,2013As ofJune 30,2013As ofMarch 31,2013(In thousands)AverageMaximumMinimumVaRVaRVaRVaR
Foreign exchange$22,907$47,531$4,933$30,338
$32,905$15,275$26,141
Money market/Global Treasury2911,07556280
290186900
Total Stressed VaR$22,815$47,514$4,889$30,403
$32,521$15,157$25,673
The VaR-based measures presented above are primarily a reflection of the overall level of market volatility and 
our appetite for trading market risk. Overall levels of volatility have been low both on an absolute basis and relative 
to the historical information observed at the beginning of the period used for the calculations.  Both the ten-day VaR-

based measures and the stressed VaR-based measures are based on historical changes observed during rolling 

ten-day periods for the portfolios as of the close of business each day over the past one-year period.  The decrease in the VaR measure for foreign exchange as of December 31, 2013 compared to September 30, 
2013 was the result of the advancing two-year window for historical price movements and related risk factors, which 
as of December 31, 2013 no longer included the third and fourth quarters of 2011, when the financial markets 

reacted to the Eurozone crisis and to the downgrade of the U.S. government™s credit rating by Standard & Poor™s.
The increase in the VaR and stressed-VaR measures for foreign exchange as of September 30, 2013 
compared to June 30, 2013 resulted from the model changes described below, and not from any changes in the 

overall composition of exposure within our portfolio of covered positions.Beginning on July 1, 2013, we implemented two significant changes to our regulatory VaR and stressed-VaR 
models.  The net effect of the two changes resulted in an increase in our daily VaR-based measure and a more 

significant increase in our stressed VaR-based measure, both calculated based on a 99% confidence interval.  The 

changes involved the introduction of off-shore yield curves for non-deliverable forward contracts in our portfolios of 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
106covered positions and the use of absolute changes in place of relative or percentage changes for interest-rate risk 
factors (both base curves and spread curves).  We may in the future further modify and adjust our models and 

methodologies used to calculate VaR, subject to regulatory review and approval, and these modifications and 

adjustments may result in changes in in our VaR measures, some of which may be significant.   
The following table presents VaR associated with our trading activities attributable to foreign exchange rates, 
interest rates and volatility as of December 31, 2013, September 30, 2013, June 30, 2013 and March 31, 2013.  The 

totals of the VaR amounts attributable to foreign exchange rates, interest rates and volatility for each VaR 

component exceeded the component VaR measures presented in the foregoing table as of each period-end, 

primarily due to the benefits of diversification across risk types.  Comparative information for 2012 is not presented, 
as we did not measure VaR under the regulatory requirements which were effective beginning on January 1, 2013. 
VaR - COVEREDPORTFOLIOS
(TEN-DAY VaR)As of December 31, 2013As of September 30, 2013As of June 30, 2013As of March 31, 2013
(In thousands)ForeignExchangeInterestRateVolatility
ForeignExchangeInterestRateVolatility
ForeignExchangeInterestRateVolatility
ForeignExchangeInterestRateVolatility
By component:
Foreignexchange/Global
Markets$3,492$4,561$306
$9,704$3,194$454$
5,531$1,808$650$9,543$2,265$492Money market/Global Treasury4652Š
4972Š5033Š
37633Š
Total VaR$3,457$4,577$306
$9,648$3,175$454$
5,483$1,808$650$9,288$2,263$492Asset-and-Liability Management Activities
The primary objective of asset-and-liability management is to provide sustainable and growing net interest revenue, or NIR, under varying economic environments, while protecting the economic value of the assets and 
liabilities carried in our consolidated statement of condition from the adverse effects of changes in interest rates.  

While many market factors affect the level of NIR and the economic value of our assets and liabilities, one of the 

most significant factors is our exposure to movements in interest rates.  Most of our NIR is earned from the 
investment of client deposits generated by our businesses.  We invest these client deposits in assets that conform 

generally to the characteristics of our balance sheet liabilities, including the currency composition of our significant 
non-U.S. dollar denominated client liabilities, but we manage our overall interest-rate risk position in the context of 
current and anticipated market conditions and within internally-approved risk guidelines.Our overall interest-rate risk position is maintained within a series of policies approved by the Board and guidelines established and monitored by ALCCO. Our Global Treasury group has responsibility for managing our 

day-to-day interest-rate risk.  To effectively manage our consolidated statement of condition and related NIR, Global 

Treasury has the authority to assume a limited amount of interest-rate risk based on market conditions and its views 

about the direction of global interest rates over both short-term and long-term time horizons.  Global Treasury 

manages our exposure to changes in interest rates on a consolidated basis organized into three regional treasury 
units, North America, Europe and Asia/Pacific, to reflect the growing, global nature of our exposures and to capture 

the impact of changes in regional market environments on our total risk position. The economic value of our consolidated statement of condition is a metric designed to estimate the fair value of assets and liabilities which could be garnered if those assets and liabilities were sold today.  The economic 

values represent discounted cash flows from all financial instruments; therefore, changes in the yield curves, which 
are used to discount the cash flows, affect the values of these instruments. 
Our investment activities and our use of derivative financial instruments are the primary tools used in managing interest-rate risk. We invest in financial instruments with currency, repricing, and maturity characteristics 

we consider appropriate to manage our overall interest-rate risk position. In addition, we use certain derivative 
instruments, primarily interest-rate swaps, to alter the interest-rate characteristics of specific balance sheet assets 
or liabilities. Additional information about our measurement of fair value and our use of derivatives is provided in notes 3 
and 16, respectively, to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.  
Because no one individual measure can accurately assess all of our exposures to changes in interest rates, we use several quantitative measures in our assessment of current and potential future exposures to changes in 
interest rates and their impact on NIR and balance sheet values. NIR simulation is the primary tool used in our MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
107evaluation of the potential range of possible NIR results that could occur under a variety of interest-rate 
environments.  We also use 
market valuation and duration analysis to assess changes in the economic value of balance sheet assets and liabilities caused by assumed changes in interest rates. To measure, monitor, and report on our interest-rate risk position, we use NIR simulation, or NIR-at-risk, and 
economic value of equity, or EVE, sensitivity.  NIR-at-risk measures the impact on NIR over the next twelve months 

to immediate, or ﬁrate shock,ﬂ and gradual, or ﬁrate ramp,ﬂ changes in market interest rates.  EVE sensitivity is a 
total return view of interest-rate risk, which measures the impact on the present value of all NIR-related principal 
and interest cash flows of an immediate change in interest rates, and is generally used in the context of economic 
capital discussed under ﬁEconomic Capitalﬂ in ﬁFinancial Condition - Capitalﬂ in this Management's Discussion and 
Analysis.  Although NIR-at-risk and EVE sensitivity measure interest-rate risk over different time horizons, both 

utilize consistent assumptions when modeling the positions currently held by State Street; however, NIR-at-risk also 

incorporates future actions planned by management over the time horizons being modeled.In calculating our NIR-at-risk, we start with a base amount of NIR that is projected over the next twelve months, assuming our forecast yield curve over the period. Our existing balance sheet assets and liabilities are 
adjusted by the amount and timing of transactions that are forecast to occur over the next twelve months. That yield 

curve is then ﬁshocked,ﬂ or moved immediately, +/-100 basis points in a parallel fashion, or at all points along the 

yield curve. Two new twelve-month NIR projections are then developed using the same balance sheet and forecast 

transactions, but with the new yield curves, and compared to the base scenario. We also perform the calculations 

using interest-rate ramps, which are +/-100-basis-point changes in interest rates that are assumed to occur 
gradually over the next twelve months, rather than immediately as we do with interest-rate shocks. EVE is based on the change in the present value of all NIR-related principal and interest cash flows for changes in market rates of interest. The present value of existing cash flows with a then-current yield curve serves 

as the base case.  We then apply an immediate parallel shock to that yield curve of ±200 basis points and 

recalculate the cash flows and related present values.  A large shock is used to better capture the embedded option 

risk in our mortgage-backed securities that results from borrowers' prepayment opportunities. Key assumptions used in the models, described in more detail below, along with changes in market conditions, 
are inherently uncertain.  Actual results necessarily differ from model results as market conditions differ from 

assumptions.  As such, management performs back-testing, stress testing, and model integrity analyses to validate 

that the modeled results produce predictive NIR-at-risk and EVE sensitivity estimates which can be used in our 
management of interest-rate risk.  Primary factors affecting the actual results are changes in our balance sheet size 

and mix; the timing, magnitude and frequency of changes in interest rates, including the slope and the relationship 
between the interest-rate level of U.S. dollar and non-U.S. dollar yield curves; changes in market conditions; and 
management actions taken in response to the preceding conditions.Both NIR-at-risk and EVE sensitivity results are managed against ALCCO-approved limits and guidelines and 
are monitored regularly, along with other relevant simulations, scenario analyses and stress tests, by both Global 

Treasury and ALCCO.  Our ALCCO-approved guidelines are, we believe, in line with industry standards and are 

periodically examined by the Federal Reserve.Based on our current balance sheet composition where fixed-rate assets exceed fixed-rate liabilities, reported results of NIR-at-risk could depict an increase in NIR from a rate increase while EVE presents a loss.  A change in 

this balance sheet profile may result in different outcomes under both NIR-at-risk and EVE.  NIR-at-risk depicts the 

change in the nominal (undiscounted) dollar net interest flows which are generated from the forecast statement of 
condition over the next twelve months.  As interest rates increase, the interest expense associated with our client 

deposit liabilities is assumed to increase at a slower pace than the investment returns derived from our current 
balance sheet or the associated reinvestment of our interest-earning assets, resulting in an overall increase to NIR.  
EVE, on the other hand, measures the present value change of both principal and interest cash flows based on the 
current period-end balance sheet.  As a result, EVE does not contemplate reinvestment of our assets associated 

with a change in the interest-rate environment.   Although NIR in both NIR-at-risk and EVE sensitivity is higher in response to increased interest rates, the future principal flows from fixed-rate investments are discounted at higher rates for EVE, which results in lower 
asset values and a corresponding reduction or loss in EVE.  As noted above, NIR-at-risk does not analyze changes 

in the value of principal cash flows and therefore does not experience the same reduction experienced by EVE 
sensitivity associated with discounting principal cash flows at higher rates.MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
108Net Interest Revenue at RiskNIR-at-risk is designed to measure the potential impact of changes in global market interest rates on NIR in the short term. The impact of changes in market rates on NIR is measured against a baseline NIR which encompasses 

management's expectations regarding the evolving balance sheet volumes and interest rates in the near-term.  The 

goal is to achieve an acceptable level of NIR under various interest-rate environments.  Assumptions regarding 

levels of client deposits and our ability to price these deposits under various rate environments have a significant 
impact on the results of the NIR simulations.  Similarly, the timing of cash flows from our investment portfolio, 

especially option-embedded financial instruments like mortgage-backed securities, and our ability to replace these 
cash flows in line with management's expectations, can affect the results of NIR simulations.  
The following table presents the estimated exposure of NIR for the next twelve months, calculated as of the dates indicated, due to an immediate +/-100-basis-point shift to our internal forecast of global interest rates.  We 

manage NIR sensitivity not to decline more than 15% from the baseline NIR +/-100 basis point shocks.  Estimated 
incremental exposures presented below are dependent on management's assumptions, and do not reflect any 
additional actions management may undertake in order to mitigate some of the adverse effects of changes in 

interest rates on our financial performance. Estimated Exposure toNet Interest Revenue(Dollars in millions)December 31,2013December 31,2012Rate change:Exposure% of BaseNIRExposure
% of BaseNIR+100 bps shock$33414.0%
$1566.5%
Œ100 bps shock(261)(10.9)
(200)(8.3)
+100 bps ramp1265.3
391.6
Œ100 bps ramp(124)(5.2)
(96)(4.0)
As of December 31, 2013, NIR sensitivity to an upward-100-basis-point shock in global market rates was higher compared to December 31, 2012, due to a higher level of forecast client deposits.  The benefit to NIR for an 

upward-100-basis-point ramp is less significant than a shock, since market rates are assumed to increase gradually.
A downward-100-basis-point shock in global market rates places pressure on NIR
, as deposit rates reach their implicit floors due to the exceptionally low global interest-rate environment, and provide little funding relief on the liability side, while assets reset into the lower-rate environment. NIR sensitivity to a downward-100-basis-point 
shock in market rates as of December 31, 2013 was similar to December 31, 2012, as higher levels of forecast 
noninterest-bearing deposits, which improve base NIR, provide no relief as rates fall.  Other important factors which affect the levels of NIR are the size and mix of assets carried in our consolidated 
statement of condition; interest-rate spreads; the slope and interest-rate level of U.S. and non-U.S. dollar yield 
curves and the relationship between them; the pace of change in global market interest rates; and management 
actions taken in response to the preceding conditions. Economic Value of Equity
EVE sensitivity measures changes in the market value of equity to quantify potential losses to shareholders due to an immediate +/-200-basis-point rate shock compared to current interest-rate levels if the balance sheet 
were liquidated immediately.  Management compares the change in EVE sensitivity against State Street's 

aggregate tier 1 and tier 2 risk-based capital, to evaluate whether the magnitude of the exposure to interest rates is 
acceptable.  Generally, a change resulting from a +/-200-basis-point rate shock that is less than 20% of aggregate 

tier 1 and tier 2 capital is an exposure that management deems acceptable.  To the extent that we manage changes 

in EVE sensitivity within the 20% threshold, we would seek to take action to remain below the threshold if the 
magnitude of our exposure to interest rates approached that limit.  Similar to NIR-at-risk measures, the timing of cash flows affects EVE sensitivity, as changes in asset and 
liability values under different rate scenarios are dependent on when interest and principal payments are received.  

In contrast to NIR simulations, however, EVE sensitivity does not incorporate assumptions regarding reinvestment 

of these cash flows.  In addition, our ability to price client deposits has a much smaller impact on EVE sensitivity, as 

EVE sensitivity does not consider the ongoing benefit of investing client deposits.MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
109The following table presents estimated EVE exposures, calculated as of the dates indicated, assuming an immediate and prolonged shift in global interest rates, the impact of which would be spread over a number of years. Estimated Sensitivity ofEconomic Value of Equity                                             
(Dollars in millions)December 31,2013December 31,2012Rate change:Exposure% of Tier1/Tier 2CapitalExposure
% of Tier1/Tier 2Capital+200 bps shock$2,359(14.9)%
$(2,542)(17.0)%
Œ200 bps shock1,1497.2
410.3
Exposure to upward- and downward-200-basis-point shocks as of December 31, 2013 improved compared to December 31, 2012.  A lower concentration of fixed-rate securities in the investment portfolio and hedging activity in 

2013 reduced EVE sensitivity to changes in market rates.Model Risk Management The use of financial models is widespread throughout the banking and financial services industry, with larger 
and more complex organizations employing dozens of sophisticated models on a daily basis to measure risk 
exposures, determine economic and regulatory capital levels, and guide investment decisions, among other things. 
However, even as models represent a significant advancement in financial management, the models themselves 

represent a new source of risk, i.e., the potential for adverse consequences or financial loss from decisions based 
on incorrect, misused or misinterpreted model outputs and reports.In large banking organizations like State Street, where financial models and their outputs exert significant influence on business decisions, and where model failure could have a particularly harmful effect on our financial 

strength and performance, model risk is managed within an extensive and rigorous risk management framework.  
This framework is documented in our Model Risk Governance Policy Statement and accompanying Model Risk 
Governance Guidelines. Our model risk management program has three principal components:  A model risk governance program supports risk management by defining roles and responsibilities, by 
providing policies and guidance that define relevant model risk management activities, and by describing 
procedures that implement those policies; A model development process facilitates the appropriate design and accuracy of models; the development 

process also includes ongoing model integrity activities designed to test for robustness and stability and to 
evaluate a model's limitations and assumptions; and  A set of model validation processes and activities is designed to validate that models are theoretically 

sound, are performing as expected, and are in line with their design objectives; model validation also 
checks that a model's key assumptions and limitations are identified and clearly communicated to the 
model's end users and to senior management.  The MAC, chaired by the head of the Model Validation Group, was established to provide recommendations on 
technical modeling issues to the corporate oversight committees.  The MAC includes members with expertise in 

modeling methodologies, and has representation from the various business units throughout State Street.Business Risk ManagementWe define business risk as the risk of adverse changes in our earnings related to business factors, including 
changes in the competitive environment, changes in the operational economics of our business activities and the 
potential effect of strategic and reputation risks, not already captured as trading market, interest-rate, credit, 

operational or liquidity risks.  We incorporate business risk into our assessment of our strategic plans and economic 

capital needs. Active management of business risk is an integral component of all aspects of our business, and 

responsibility for the management of business risk lies with every employee at State Street.Separating the effects of a potential material adverse event into operational and business risk is sometimes 
difficult.  For instance, the direct financial impact of an unfavorable event in the form of fines or penalties would be 

classified as an operational risk loss, while the impact on our reputation and consequently the potential loss of 
clients and corresponding decline in revenue would be classified as a business risk loss.  An additional example of 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
110
business risk is the integration of a major acquisition.  Failure to successfully integrate the operations of an acquired 
business, and the resultant inability to retain clients and the associated revenue, would be classified as a loss due 
to business risk.Business risk is managed with a long-term focus. Techniques for its assessment and management include the 
development of business plans and appropriate management oversight. The potential impact of the various 

elements of business risk is difficult to quantify with any degree of precision.  We use a combination of historical 

earnings volatility, scenario analysis, stress-testing and management judgment to help assess the potential effect on 

State Street attributable to business risk.  Management and control of business risks are generally the responsibility 
of the business units as part of their overall strategic planning and internal risk management processes.CapitalThe management of both our regulatory and economic capital involves key metrics evaluated by management to assess whether our actual level of capital is commensurate with our risk profile, is in compliance with all 
applicable regulatory requirements, and is sufficient to provide us with the financial flexibility to undertake future 

strategic business initiatives.  We assess capital based on relevant regulatory capital adequacy requirements, as 

well as our own internal capital targets.FrameworkOur objective with respect to management of capital is to maintain a strong capital base in order to provide financial flexibility for our business needs, including funding corporate growth and supporting clients™ cash 

management needs, and to provide protection against loss to depositors and creditors.  We strive to maintain an 

appropriate level of capital, commensurate with our risk profile, on which an attractive return to shareholders is 
expected to be realized over both the short and long term, while protecting our obligations to depositors and 
creditors and complying with regulatory capital adequacy requirements.  Our capital management process focuses 
on our risk exposures, the regulatory requirements applicable to us with respect to capital adequacy, the evaluations 

and resulting credit ratings of the major independent credit rating agencies, our return on capital at both the 
consolidated and line-of-business level, and our capital position relative to our peers. Our evaluation of capital includes the comparison of capital sources with capital uses, as well as the consideration of the quality and quantity of the various components of capital, as two of several inputs in our overall 
assessment of our capital adequacy.  The goals of the capital evaluation process are to determine the optimal level 

of capital and composition of capital instruments to satisfy all constituents of capital, with the lowest overall cost to 
shareholders.  Other factors considered in our capital evaluation process are strategic and contingency planning, 
stress testing and planned capital actions.Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment
Our primary banking regulator is the Federal Reserve. Both State Street and State Street Bank are subject to the minimum regulatory capital requirements established by the Federal Reserve and defined in the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, or FDIC, Improvement Act of 1991. State Street Bank must exceed the regulatory 

capital thresholds for ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ in order for our parent company to maintain its status as a financial holding 
company. Accordingly, our primary goal with respect to capital adequacy is to exceed all applicable minimum 

regulatory capital requirements and to be ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ under the Prompt Corrective Action guidelines 

established by the FDIC.  Our capital adequacy program includes our Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment 

Process, or ICAAP, and associated capital policies.
We consider capital adequacy to be a key element of our financial well-being, which affects our ability to attract 
and maintain client relationships; operate effectively in the global capital markets; and satisfy regulatory, security 

holder and shareholder needs.  Capital is one of several elements that affect State Street™s debt ratings and the 

ratings of our principal subsidiaries.In conformity with our capital policies, we strive to maintain adequate capital, not just at a point in time, but over time and during periods of stress, to account for changes in our strategic direction, evolving economic 
conditions, and financial and market volatility.  We have developed and implemented a corporate-wide ICAAP to 

assess our overall capital and liquidity in relation to our risk profile and to provide a comprehensive strategy for 
maintaining appropriate capital and liquidity levels. The ICAAP considers material risks under multiple scenarios, 

with an emphasis on stress scenarios. The ICAAP builds on and leverages existing processes and systems used to 

measure our capital adequacy. Our ICAAP policy is reviewed and approved by the Board™s RCC.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
111Capital Contingency PlanningContingency planning is an integral component of our capital management program. The objective of our 
contingency planning process is to monitor current and forecast levels of select measures that serve as preemptive 
indicators of a potentially adverse capital or liquidity adequacy situation. These measures are one of the inputs used 

to set our capital adequacy level. We review these measures annually for appropriateness and relevance in relation 

to our financial budget and capital plan.Stress Testing
We have a robust State Street-wide stress-testing program that executes multiple stress tests each year.  Our 
stress testing program is structured around what we determine to be the top material risks incurred by State Street, 
which are the end product of the corporate-wide material risk identification program.  These top material risks serve 

as an organizing principle for much of our risk management framework, as well as reporting, including the ﬁrisk 
dashboardﬂ provided to the Board.  Over the past few years, stress scenarios have included a deep recession in the 
U.S., a break-up of the Eurozone, and an oil shock precipitated by turmoil in the Middle East/North Africa region.
In connection with the focus on our top risks, each stress test incorporates idiosyncratic loss events tailored to State Street‚s unique risk profile. Due to the nature of our business model and our consolidated statement of 
condition, our risks differ from those of a traditional commercial bank.
The Federal Reserve requires bank holding companies with total consolidated total assets of $50 billion or more, which includes State Street, to submit a capital plan on an annual basis. The Federal Reserve uses their 

CCAR process, which incorporates hypothetical financial and economic stress scenarios, to assess whether 
banking organizations have capital planning processes that account for idiosyncratic risks and provide for sufficient 

capital to continue operations throughout times of economic and financial stress. As part of the CCAR process, the 

Federal Reserve assesses each organization™s capital adequacy, capital planning process, and plans to distribute 

capital, such as dividend payments or stock purchase programs. Management and Board risk committees review 
and approve CCAR results and assumptions before submission to the Federal Reserve.Information about the Federal Reserve™s review of our capital plan for 2013, submitted in January 2013 in 
connection with the CCAR process, is provided under ﬁCapital Actionsﬂ in this ﬁCapitalﬂ section.  The Federal 

Reserve is currently conducting a review of capital plans for 2014 submitted by us and other large bank holding 
companies in January 2014.  The levels at which we will be able to declare dividends and purchase shares of our 

common stock after March 2014 will depend on the Federal Reserve's assessment of our capital plan and our 
projected performance under the stress scenarios. While we anticipate that the Federal Reserve will not object to 
the continued return of capital to our shareholders through dividends and/or common stock purchases in 2014, we 
cannot provide assurance with respect to the Federal Reserve's assessment of our capital plan, or that we will be 
able to continue to return capital to our shareholders at any specific level.GovernanceIn order to support integrated decision making, we have identified three management elements to aid in the compatibility and coordination of our capital adequacy strategies and processes:  Ł Risk Management - identification, measurement, monitoring and forecasting of different types of risk and 
their combined impact on capital adequacy;Ł Capital Management - determination of optimal capital and liquidity levels; and

Ł Business Management - strategic planning, budgeting, forecasting, and performance management.
We have a hierarchical structure supporting appropriate committee review of relevant risk and capital 
information.  The ongoing responsibility for capital management rests with our Treasurer.  The Capital Planning 

group within Global Treasury is responsible for capital policies, development of the capital plan, the management of 

global capital, capital optimization, and business unit capital management. ALCCO has oversight of our management of regulatory capital, capital adequacy with respect to regulatory requirements, internal targets and the expectations of the major independent credit rating agencies.  ALCCO™s roles 

and responsibilities are designed to work complementary to and coordinated with the MRAC, which approves State 
Street™s balance sheet strategy and related activities.  The Board™s RCC assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight 

responsibilities related to the assessment and management of risk and capital.Regulatory CapitalThe following table presents regulatory capital ratios for State Street and State Street Bank as of December 31:MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
112
 Currently ApplicableRegulatory GuidelinesState StreetState Street Bank
MinimumWell
Capitalized2013201220132012
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio4%6%
17.3%19.1%16.4%17.3%Total risk-based capital ratio810
19.720.619.019.1Tier 1 leverage ratio
(1)456.97.16.46.3(1)  Regulatory guideline for ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ applies only to State Street Bank.The following table presents the components of tier 1, tier 2 and total capital, and the components of total risk-weighted assets, for State Street and State Street Bank as of December 31; additional information about our 
regulatory capital is provided in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 
10-K. State StreetState Street Bank
(Dollars in millions)2013201220132012
Tier 1 capital:Total common shareholders' equity$19,887
$20,380
$19,755
$19,681
Preferred stock491489ŠŠTrust preferred capital securities950950ŠŠGoodwill(6,036)(5,977)(5,740)(5,679)Other intangible assets(2,360)(2,539)(2,239)(2,392)Deferred tax liability associated with acquisitions653699638680Other310(242)304(246)Tier 1 capital13,89513,76012,71812,044Tier 2 capital:Qualifying subordinated debt1,9181,2191,9361,223Allowances for on- and off-balance sheet credit exposures andother48414539Tier 2 capital1,9661,2601,9811,262Deduction for investments in finance subsidiaries(74)(191)ŠŠTotal capital$15,787
$14,829
$14,699
$13,306
Adjusted total risk-weighted assets and market risk equivalentassets:On-balance sheet assets:Cash and interest-bearing assets$2,175
$1,429
$1,979
$1,287
Investment securities34,00036,09433,51435,495Loans and leases13,20112,11813,25712,187Interest, fees and other receivables2,9512,3552,3322,068Other assets7,9506,2426,5174,912Total on-balance sheet assets60,27758,23857,59955,949Off-balance sheet equivalent assets:Guarantees and unfunded commitments to extend credit10,1254,60210,1254,602Foreign exchange derivative contracts5,2825,3535,3025,353Standby letters of credit and asset purchase agreements2,9953,0962,9953,096Other18510417693Total off-balance sheet equivalent assets18,58713,15518,59813,144Market risk equivalent assets1,2625191,262445Total risk-weighted assets$80,126
$71,912
$77,459
$69,538
Adjusted quarterly average assets$202,801
$192,817
$199,301
$189,780
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
113
As of December 31, 2013, State Street's regulatory capital ratios declined compared to December 31, 2012, primarily the result of increases in total risk-weighted assets.  State Street's tier 1 capital in the same comparison 
increased slightly, as the positive effect of net income and other comprehensive income was mostly offset by 

declarations of common stock dividends and purchases by us of our common stock.  The increase in total capital 

was primarily the result of the May 2013 issuance of $1 billion of subordinated debt, which qualifies as tier 2 capital 
under current federal regulatory capital guidelines.  The increase in total risk-weighted assets was primarily associated with higher off-balance sheet equivalent 
assets, mainly associated with an increase in exposure associated with our participation in principal securities 
finance transactions, as well as an increase in on-balance sheet assets, primarily due to higher levels of loans and 
other assets.  The decrease in the tier 1 leverage ratio mainly resulted from an increase in adjusted quarterly 

average assets associated with balance sheet growth during the year.
As of December 31, 2013, State Street Bank's tier 1 risk-based and total risk-based capital ratios declined compared to December 31, 2012, primarily the result of increases in total risk-weighted assets.  State Street Bank's 
tier 1 capital in the same comparison increased, as the positive effect of net income and other comprehensive 

income was partially offset by the payment of dividends to our parent company.  The increase in total capital was 

primarily the result of the above-mentioned subordinated debt issuance.  The increase in total risk-weighted assets 

were the result of the above-mentioned changes in on- and off-balance sheet equivalent assets.  The slight increase 

in the tier 1 leverage ratio mainly resulted from an increase in tier 1 capital almost entirely offset by an increase in 

adjusted quarterly average assets associated with balance sheet growth during the year.
Capital Actions
Preferred StockIn 2013, we declared aggregate dividends on our non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, Series C (represented by depositary shares, each representing a 1/4,000th ownership interest in a share of State Street™s 

non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, Series C) of $5,250 per share, or approximately $1.31 per depositary 
share, totaling approximately $26 million.  In 2012, dividends on our perpetual preferred stock, Series C, totaled 
approximately $8 million.  In 2012, we declared dividends on our non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, Series 
A, totaling approximately $21 million.  We redeemed our Series A perpetual preferred stock in 2012.
Common StockIn March 2013, we received the results of the Federal Reserve's review of our 2013 capital plan in connection with its CCAR process.  The Federal Reserve did not object to the capital actions we proposed, and, in March 2013, 

our Board approved a new common stock purchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $2.10 billion of our 
common stock through March 31, 2014.  From April 1 through December 31, 2013, we purchased approximately 

24.7 million shares of our common stock, all under this program, at an aggregate cost of $1.68 billion.  As of 

December 31, 2013, approximately $420 million remained available for purchases of our common stock under the program.  Shares acquired in connection with this program which remained unissued as of year-end were recorded 
as treasury stock in our consolidated statement of condition as of December 31, 2013.  In March 2013, we completed a $1.8 billion common stock purchase program, authorized by our Board in March 2012.  In the first quarter of 2013, we purchased 6.5 million shares at an average per-share and aggregate 
cost of $54.95 and approximately $360 million, respectively.  
In 2013, under both programs combined, we purchased approximately 31.2 million shares of our common stock at an average price of $65.30 per share and an aggregate cost of approximately $2.04 billion.  In 2012, we 
purchased approximately 33.4 million shares of our common stock, all under the March 2012 program, at an 
aggregate cost of $1.44 billion. In 2013, we declared aggregate quarterly common stock dividends of $1.04 per share, totaling approximately $463 million, on our common stock.  In 2012, we declared aggregate quarterly common stock dividends of $0.96 
per share, totaling approximately $456 million. Federal and state banking regulations place certain restrictions on dividends paid by subsidiary banks to the parent holding company. In addition, banking regulators have the authority to prohibit bank holding companies from 

paying dividends. Information concerning limitations on dividends from our subsidiary banks is provided in ﬁRelated 
Stockholder Mattersﬂ included under Item 5, and in note 15 to the consolidated financial statements included under 
Item 8, of this Form 10-K. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
114
Basel Capital Framework and DevelopmentsThe currently applicable minimum regulatory capital requirements enforced by U.S. banking regulators are based on a 1988 international accord, commonly referred to as Basel I, which was developed by the Basel 
Committee on Banking Supervision, or Basel Committee.Basel II FrameworkIn 2004, the Basel Committee released an enhanced capital adequacy framework, referred to as Basel II.  Basel II requires large and internationally active banking organizations, such as State Street, which generally rely 
on sophisticated risk management and measurement systems, to better align the use of those systems with their 
determination of regulatory capital requirements.  Basel II adopted a three-pillar framework for addressing capital 
adequacy and minimum capital requirements, which incorporates Pillar 1, the measurement of credit risk, market 
risk and operational risk; Pillar 2, supervisory review, which addresses the need for a banking organization to 

assess its capital adequacy relative to the risks underlying its business activities, rather than only with respect to its 
minimum regulatory capital requirements; and Pillar 3, market discipline, which imposes public disclosure 
requirements on a banking organization intended to allow the assessment of key information about the 
organization's risk profile and its associated level of regulatory capital. In 2007, U.S. banking regulators jointly issued final rules to implement the Basel II framework in the U.S. The 
framework does not supersede or change the existing prompt corrective action and leverage capital requirements 
applicable to banking organizations in the U.S., and explicitly reserves the regulators' authority to require 
organizations to hold additional capital where appropriate. Basel III FrameworkIn 2010, in response to the financial crisis and ongoing global financial market dynamics, the Basel Committee proposed two significant reforms to the Basel II capital framework.  The first reform was composed of changes to 

the market risk capital framework associated with Basel I, and was referred to as Basel 2.5; the second reform was 
composed of comprehensive revisions and enhancements to Basel II, which became known as Basel III.  Market Risk Capital RuleThe Basel Committee introduced significant changes to the then-existing market risk capital framework, aimed at addressing certain issues in that framework highlighted by the 2008 financial crisis.  U.S. banking regulators 
introduced their version of this so-called Basel 2.5, in the form of a proposed new market risk capital rule, in 2011, 

which included the concept of an incremental risk capital requirement to capture default and credit-quality migration 
risk for non-securitization credit products.  Other revisions placed additional prudential requirements on banking 
organizations™ internal models for measuring market risk and required enhanced qualitative and quantitative 

disclosures, particularly with respect to banking organizations™ securitization activities.
In August 2012, U.S. banking regulators jointly issued a final market risk capital rule to implement the new 
market risk capital framework in the U.S.  The new market risk capital rule, which was effective beginning on 

January 1, 2013, supplements Basel I and Basel II, and replaces the prior market risk capital framework under 
Basel I and Basel II in place since 1998, by requiring banking organizations with significant trading activities, as 
defined in the rule, to adjust their regulatory risk-based capital ratios to reflect the market risk inherent in their 
trading activities.  Among other things, the final rule requires the use of internal models to calculate daily measures 

of Value-at-Risk, or VaR, that reflect general market risk for certain trading positions defined as ﬁcovered positions,ﬂ 

as well as stressed VaR-based measures to supplement the VaR-based measures.
Our adoption of the new market risk capital rule on January 1, 2013 did not significantly affect our or State 
Street Bank's risk-based capital ratios, although it did modestly increase our market risk equivalent assets.  Market 
risk equivalent assets are disclosed in the foregoing ﬁRegulatory Capitalﬂ portion of this ﬁCapitalﬂ section.Basel IIIBasel III proposed to establish more stringent regulatory capital and liquidity requirements, including higher minimum regulatory capital ratios, new capital buffers, higher risk-weighted asset calibrations, more restrictive 

definitions of qualifying capital, a liquidity coverage ratio, and a net stable funding ratio.In June 2012, U.S. banking regulators introduced Basel III by issuing proposed revisions to the existing Basel II framework.  These proposals were intended to incorporate the above-described revisions and enhancements 

proposed by the Basel Committee, and implement relevant provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, in order to restructure 

the U.S. capital rules into a harmonized, codified regulatory capital framework.MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
115
In July 2013, U.S. banking regulators jointly issued a final rule implementing the Basel III framework in the U.S.  Among other things, the final rule raises the minimum tier 1 risk-based capital ratio from 4% to 6%; adds 
requirements for a minimum common equity tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5% and a minimum supplementary tier 1 
leverage ratio of 3% for so-called ﬁadvanced approachesﬂ banking organizations (described below); and implements 
a capital conservation buffer and a countercyclical capital buffer, both described below.  The Basel III final rule also 

incorporates the new market risk capital rule to create a single and comprehensive capital adequacy framework.Under the Basel III final rule, a banking organization would be able to make capital distributions, subject to other regulatory constraints, such as the review of capital plans, and discretionary bonus payments without 
specified limitations as long as it maintains the required capital conservation buffer of 2.5% over each of the 

minimum tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios and the common equity tier 1 capital ratio (plus any potentially 
applicable countercyclical capital buffer).  Banking regulators would establish the minimum countercyclical capital 

buffer, which is initially set by banking regulators at zero, up to a maximum of 2.5% above the minimum ratios 

inclusive of the capital conservation buffer, under certain economic conditions.  As of January 1, 2019, the date that 

full implementation is required, and assuming no countercyclical buffer, the minimum Basel III capital ratios, 

including the capital conservation buffer, will be 8.5% for tier 1 risk-based capital, 10.5% for total risk-based capital, 

and 7% for common equity tier 1 capital, in order for us to make capital distributions and discretionary bonus 
payments without limitation.  Each of these Basel III ratios is calculated differently under the Basel III final rule than 

those similar ratios calculated under Basel I, and therefore these Basel III ratios are not comparable with the Basel I 
ratios presented earlier in the ﬁRegulatory Capitalﬂ section.The Basel III final rule provides for two frameworks: the ﬁstandardizedﬂ approach, intended to replace Basel I, and the ﬁadvancedﬂ approach, applicable to advanced approaches banking organizations, like State Street, as 
originally defined under Basel II.  Once phased in, the Basel III final rule will change the manner in which our 
regulatory capital ratios are calculated, will reduce our calculated regulatory capital, and, as noted above, will 
increase the minimum regulatory capital that we will be required to maintain. Under the Basel III final rule, we will be 
subject to the more stringent of our regulatory capital ratios calculated under the standardized approach and those 
calculated under the advanced approach in the assessment of our capital adequacy under the prompt corrective 
action framework.Provisions of the Basel III final rule will become effective under a transition timetable which began on January 
1, 2014.  These provisions will supersede or modify corresponding elements of the Basel I and Basel II risk-based 

and leverage capital requirements and prompt corrective action framework.  The requirement for the capital 

conservation buffer will be phased in beginning on January 1, 2016, with full implementation by January 1, 2019.
The timing of application of the provisions of the Basel III final rule related to the calculation of risk-weighted assets under the advanced approach will depend on State Street's completion of a required qualification, or parallel 
run, period.  During its qualification period, State Street must demonstrate that it complies with the related Basel III 
requirements to the satisfaction of the Federal Reserve.  The calculation of risk-weighted assets under the Basel III 

standardized approach will become effective on January 1, 2015.
On February 21, 2014, we were notified by the Federal Reserve that we have completed our parallel run period and will be required to begin using the advanced approaches framework as provided in the Federal 
Reserve's July 2013 Basel III final rule in the determination of our risk-based capital requirements.  Pursuant to this 
notification, we will use the advanced approaches framework to calculate and publicly disclose our risk-based 
capital ratios beginning with the second quarter of 2014.  Under the July 2013 Basel III final rule, we must meet the 
minimum risk-based capital ratios under both the advanced approaches and generally applicable risk-based capital 
frameworks in Basel III and Basel I, respectively.     
Estimated Basel III Tier 1 Common Ratio
As described above, the Basel III final rule adds a requirement for a minimum common equity tier 1 capital ratio, or tier 1 common ratio.  The tier 1 common ratio is a measurement of capital representing tier 1 capital, 

reduced by the deduction of ﬁnon-common elements,ﬂ such as trust preferred capital securities and preferred stock, 
divided by total risk-weighted assets.  The Basel I tier 1 common ratio is used by regulators and by management to 

monitor and assess State Street's capital position, both individually and relative to other financial institutions, and 
management believes it may be of interest to investors.The following table presents our tier 1 common ratio as of December 31, 2013, calculated using Basel I standards, and our estimated tier 1 common ratios as of December 31, 2013, calculated in conformity with the 
Basel III final rule under both the standardized approach and the advanced approach.  These estimated Basel III tier 

1 common ratios are preliminary, reflect tier 1 common equity calculated under the Basel III final rule as applicable 

on its January 1, 2014 effective date, and are based on our present understanding of the final rule's impact.  As 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
116
indicated above, under the Basel III final rule, the more stringent of the Basel III tier 1 common ratios calculated by 
us under the standardized and advanced approaches will apply in the assessment of our capital adequacy under 
the prompt corrective action framework.December 31, 2013Currently Applicable Regulatory Requirements(1)Basel III Final Rule Standardized Approach (Estimated)(2)Basel III Final Rule Advanced Approach                               (Estimated)(2)(Dollars in millions)Tier 1 capital$13,895$13,216$13,216
Less:
   Trust preferred capital securities950475475
   Preferred stock491491491
Plus:
   OtherŠ8787
Tier 1 common capital$12,454$12,337$12,337
Total risk-weighted assets
 $80,126$121,562$104,919
Tier 1 common ratio15.5%10.1%11.8%Minimum tier 1 common ratio requirement, assuming fullimplementation on January 1, 20194.54.5
Capital conservation buffer, assuming full implementation onJanuary 1, 20192.52.5
Minimum tier 1 common ratio requirement, including capital conservation buffer, assuming full implementation on January 1, 

2019(3)7.07.0
(1)  Using Basel I standards, the tier 1 common ratio was calculated by dividing (a) tier 1 risk-based capital, calculated in conformity with Basel I, less non-common elements including qualifying trust preferred capital securities and qualifying perpetual preferred stock, or tier 1 common capital, by (b) total risk-weighted assets, calculated in conformity with Basel I.  (2)  As of December 31, 2013, for purposes of the calculations in conformity with the Basel III final rule, capital and total risk-weighted assets under both the standardized approach and the advanced approach were calculated using our estimates, based on the provisions of the final rule expected to affect 
capital in 2014.  The tier 1 common ratio was calculated by dividing (a) tier 1 common capital, as described in footnote (1), b
ut with tier 1 risk-based capital calculated in conformity with the final rule, by (b) total risk-weighted assets, calculated in conformity with the Basel III final rule.  These estimated 
Basel III tier 1 common ratios are preliminary, reflect tier 1 common equity calculated under the Basel III final rule as appli
cable on its January 1, 2014 effective date, and are based on our present understanding of the final rule's impact.  
Ł  Under both the standardized and advanced approaches, tier 1 risk-based capital decreased by $679 million, as a result of app
lying the estimated effect of the Basel III final rule to Basel I tier 1 risk-based capital of $13.90 billion as of December 31, 2013.  
Ł  Under both the standardized and advanced approaches, estimated tier 1 common capital used in the calculation of the tier 1 common ratio was $12.34 billion, reflecting the adjustments to Basel I tier 1 risk-based capital described in the first bullet above.  Tier 1 co
mmon capital used in the calculation was therefore calculated as adjusted tier 1 risk-based capital of $13.22 billion less non-common elements of capita
l, composed of trust preferred capital securities of $475 million, preferred stock of $491 million, and other adjustments of $87 million as of December 31, 2013, resulting in estimated tier 1 common capital of $12.34 billion.  As of December 31, 2013, there was no qualifying minority inte
rest in subsidiaries.  Ł  Under the standardized approach, total risk-weighted assets used in the calculation of the estimated tier 1 common ratio increased by $41.44 
billion as a result of applying the provisions of the Basel III final rule to Basel I total risk-weighted assets of $80.13 billion as of December 31, 2013. Under the advanced approach, total risk-weighted assets used in the calculation of the estimated tier 1 common ratio increased by $24.79 billion 
as a result of applying the provisions of the final rule to Basel I total risk-weighted assets of $80.13 billion as of December
 31, 2013.      The primary differences between total risk-weighted assets under Basel I and total risk-weighted assets under the Basel III
 final rule include the following: under Basel I, credit risk is quantified using pre-determined risk weights and asset classes, and in part, uses external credit ratings, while the Basel III final rule, specifically the standardized and advanced approaches, introduces a broader range of pre-determined risk weights and asset classes, uses certain alternatives to external credit ratings, includes additional adjustments for operational risk (under the advanced approach) and counterparty credit risk, and revises the treatment of equity exposures.  In particular, asset securitization exposures receive
 higher risk weights under both the standardized and advanced approaches in the Basel III final rule compared to Basel I.(3)  The minimum tier 1 common ratio requirement does not reflect the countercyclical capital buffer under the Basel III final rule,
 or the capital buffer for 
global systemically important banks prescribed by the Basel Committee (refer to ﬁSystemically Important Banksﬂ below); such countercyclical capital buffer, which is initially set at zero, would be established by banking regulators under certain economic conditions, and U.S. 
banking regulators have not yet issued a proposal to implement the prescribed capital buffer for systemically important financial institutions.  
The estimated Basel III tier 1 common ratio as of December 31, 2013 presented above, calculated under the advanced approach in conformity with the Basel III final rule, reflects calculations and determinations with respect to 
our capital and related matters as of December 31, 2013, based on State Street and external data, quantitative 
formulae, statistical models, historical correlations and assumptions, collectively referred to as ﬁadvanced systems,ﬂ 
in effect and used by State Street for those purposes as of the time we filed this Form 10-K.  Significant components 

of these advanced systems involve the exercise of judgment by us and our regulators, and our advanced systems MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
117
may not accurately represent or calculate the scenarios, circumstances, outputs or other results for which they are 
designed or intended.  Due to the influence of changes in these advanced systems, whether resulting from changes in data inputs, regulation or regulatory supervision or interpretation, State Street-specific or market activities or experiences or 
other updates or factors, we expect that our advanced systems and our capital ratios calculated in conformity with 
the Basel III final rule will change and may be volatile over time, and that those latter changes or volatility could be 
material as calculated and measured from period to period.Impact of Basel III Final RuleOur current assessment of the implications of the Basel III final rule indicates a potential impact which could be material to our businesses and our profitability, as well as to our regulatory capital ratios.  One significant provision 

in the final rule would require us to apply the ﬁSimplified Supervisory Formula Approach,ﬂ referred to as the SSFA, in 

the risk-weighting of asset securitization exposures, such as asset-backed securities, carried in our investment 
securities portfolio.  The approach required by Basel II utilizes the ratings-based approach, under which external 

credit ratings are used to risk-weight such exposures.  The Dodd-Frank Act prohibits the use of external credit 

ratings in the risk-weighting of asset securitization exposures.  Currently, our investment portfolio contains 

significant holdings of mortgage- and asset-backed securities that are highly rated by credit rating agencies, but for 
which the SSFA would apply higher regulatory risk weights compared to the approach required by Basel I and Basel 

II.  In contrast, certain of our securities with lower credit ratings would receive lower regulatory risk weights if the 
SSFA were applied.
Based on the composition of our investment portfolio with respect to the types of securities and related external credit ratings as of December 31, 2013, our application of the SSFA would materially increase our total 

regulatory risk-weighted assets relative to those calculated in conformity with Basel I, and correspondingly decrease 
our regulatory risk-based capital ratios relative to those calculated in conformity with Basel I; as a result, we are re-
evaluating the composition of our investment portfolio in order to maintain an investment strategy appropriately 
aligned with our maintenance of an appropriate level of regulatory capital.  Depending on future market conditions, 
this re-evaluation could result in the reinvestment of our portfolio securities into different types of investments, which 

could materially affect our consolidated results of operations by reducing our net interest revenue.
Certain of the provisions in the Basel III final rule, including the requirement to apply the SSFA, became 
effective beginning on January 1, 2014 under the advanced approach, although certain provisions will be 

implemented, in whole or in part, in later periods.  As such, a significant number of the securities currently held in 

our investment portfolio that are highly rated by credit agencies are expected to mature or pay down over time, and 
we would currently anticipate replacing those securities pursuant to our reinvestment program in a manner that 
would seek to manage our risk appetite, our return objectives and our levels of regulatory capital.  As a result of our 

balance sheet management efforts, all else being equal, we would anticipate being able to significantly offset the 

impact of application of the SSFA on our total regulatory risk-weighted assets and our regulatory risk-based capital 

ratios.In addition, the qualification of trust preferred capital securities as tier 1 capital will be phased out over a two-year period which began on January 1, 2014 and will end on January 1, 2016, and subsequently, the qualification of 

these securities as tier 2 capital will be phased out over a multi-year transition period beginning on January 1, 2016.  
We had trust preferred capital securities of $950 million outstanding as of December 31, 2013.
There remains considerable uncertainty with respect to multiple provisions of the Basel III final rule, and the timing and manner in which they will be applied to us.  Models implemented under the Basel III final rule, particularly 
those implementing the advanced approach, remain subject to regulatory review and approval.  The full effects of 

the Basel III final rule on State Street and State Street Bank are therefore subject to further evaluation and also to 
further regulatory guidance, action or rule-making.  In general, we expect to be held to the most stringent of the 
various provisions in the Basel III final rule; however, we anticipate that we will be able to comply with the relevant 

Basel III regulatory capital and liquidity requirements when and as applied to us.MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
118
Supplementary Leverage Ratio FrameworkIn July 2013, U.S. banking regulators jointly issued a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, or NPR, which proposes to enhance leverage ratio standards for the largest, most systemically significant U.S. banking organizations.  The 

July 2013 NPR applies to any U.S. top-tier bank holding company with at least $700 billion in consolidated total 
assets or at least $10 trillion in total assets under custody, referred to as a covered bank holding company, and any 

insured depository institution subsidiary of such bank holding company.  We expect the standards to apply to State 

Street and State Street Bank based on our total assets under custody.
Under Basel I, the tier 1 leverage ratio is calculated by dividing tier 1 capital by adjusted quarterly average assets.  While Basel II did not incorporate a leverage ratio, the Basel III final rule provides for a leverage ratio 
similar to Basel I, as well as a supplementary leverage ratio for advanced approaches banking organizations. This 

supplementary leverage ratio adds certain off-balance sheet exposures, such as those related to derivative 

contracts and unfunded lending commitments, to the denominator of the ratio calculation.Under the July 2013 NPR, covered bank holding companies would be required to maintain a supplementary tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5%, which is 2% above the similar minimum Basel III supplementary tier 1 leverage 
ratio of 3% described earlier in this section.  Failure to exceed the 5% supplementary tier 1 leverage ratio would 
subject covered bank holding companies to restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments.  
In addition to the leverage buffer for covered bank holding companies, the July 2013 NPR would require insured 

depository institution subsidiaries of covered bank holding companies, like State Street Bank, to maintain a 6% 
supplementary tier 1 leverage ratio to be considered ﬁwell capitalized.ﬂ  State Street is one of eight large U.S. 
banking organizations to which the July 2013 NPR would apply, if finalized as currently proposed.  The July 2013 

NPR would not apply to all banking organizations with which we compete.  If finalized as currently proposed, the 
new supplementary tier 1 leverage ratio requirements will be effective beginning on January 1, 2018.  The
 July 2013 NPR is a proposed rule, and remains subject to interpretation, regulatory guidance, industry and other comment 
and issuance in the form of a final rule.In January 2014, the Basel Committee finalized its revisions to the denominator of the Basel III supplementary tier 1 leverage ratio.  The revised denominator differs from the denominator of the supplementary leverage ratio in 

the July 2013 NPR and the Basel III final rule in several important respects that could adversely affect the 

calculation of our supplementary tier 1 leverage ratio, including the treatment of derivative contracts, securities 
financing transactions and certain off-balance sheet exposures.  U.S. banking regulators may issue rules to 

implement these revisions.  Systemically Important BanksWe meet the criteria of a large bank holding company subject to enhanced supervision and prudential 
standards, commonly referred to as a ﬁsystemically important financial institution,ﬂ or SIFI, and we are one among a 
group of 29 institutions worldwide that have been identified by the Financial Stability Board, or FSB, and the Basel 
Committee as ﬁglobal systemically important banks,ﬂ or G-SIBs.  Our designation as a G-SIB will require us to 
maintain an additional capital buffer, ranging between 1% and 2.5%, above the Basel III minimum common equity 

tier 1 capital ratio of 4.5%, based on a number of factors, as evaluated by banking regulators.  Factors in this 
evaluation will include our size, interconnectedness, substitutability, complexity and cross-jurisdictional activities.  In 

November 2013, the FSB maintained their designation of us as a category-1 organization, with a capital surcharge 
of 1%, although this designation and the associated additional capital buffer are subject to change.  U.S. banking 

regulators have not yet issued a proposal to implement the G-SIB capital surcharge.We expect these additional capital requirements for G-SIBs
 to be phased in beginning on January 1, 2016, with full implementation by January 1, 2019.  Assuming completion of the phase-in period for the capital 

conservation buffer, and no countercyclical buffer, the minimum capital ratios as of January 1, 2019, including the 

capital conservation buffer and G-SIB capital surcharge, would be 9.5% for tier 1 risk-based capital, 11.5% for total 

risk-based capital, and 8% for common equity tier 1 capital, in order for State Street to make capital distributions 
and discretionary bonus payments without limitation.  Not all of our competitors have similarly been designated as 
systemically important, and therefore some of our competitors may not be subject to the same additional capital 
requirements.Economic CapitalWe define economic capital as the capital required to protect holders of our senior debt, and obligations higher 
in priority, against unexpected economic losses over a one-year period.  Economic capital usage is one of several 

measures used by management and our Board to assess the adequacy of our capital levels in relation to State 
Street's risk profile.  Due to the evolving nature of quantification techniques, we expect to periodically refine the MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
119
methodologies, assumptions, and information used to estimate our economic capital requirements, which could 
result in a different amount of capital needed to support our business activities.
We quantify economic capital requirements for the risks inherent in our business activities and group them into 
categories that we broadly define for these purposes as follows:Ł Market risk: the risk of adverse financial impact due to fluctuations in market prices, primarily as they relate 
to our trading activities; Ł Interest-rate risk: the risk of loss in non-trading asset-and-liability management positions, primarily the 
impact of adverse movements in interest rates on the repricing mismatches that exist between the assets 
and liabilities carried in our consolidated statement of condition; Ł Credit risk: the risk of loss that may result from the default or downgrade of a borrower or counterparty; 

Ł Operational risk: the risk of loss from inadequate or failed internal processes and systems, human error, or 
from external events, which is generally consistent with the Basel II definition; and Ł Business risk: the risk of negative earnings resulting from adverse changes in business factors, including 
changes in the competitive environment, changes in the operational economics of our business activities, 
and the effect of strategic and reputational risks. 
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS
In the normal course of our business, we hold assets under custody and administration and assets under management in a custodial or fiduciary capacity for our clients, and, in conformity with GAAP, we do not record 

these assets in our consolidated statement of condition. Similarly, collateral funds associated with our securities 

finance activities are held by us as agent; therefore, we do not record these assets in our consolidated statement of 
condition.On behalf of clients enrolled in our securities lending program, we lend securities to banks, broker/dealers and other institutions. In most circumstances, we indemnify our clients for the fair market value of those securities 
against a failure of the borrower to return such securities. Though these transactions are collateralized, the 

substantial volume of these activities necessitates detailed credit-based underwriting and monitoring processes. 
The aggregate amount of indemnified securities on loan totaled $320.08 billion as of December 31, 2013, compared 
to $302.34 billion as of December 31, 2012. We require the borrower to provide collateral in an amount equal to or 

in excess of 100% of the fair market value of the securities borrowed. We hold the collateral received in connection 

with these securities lending services as agent, and the collateral is not recorded in our consolidated statement of 
condition. We revalue the securities on loan and the collateral daily to determine if additional collateral is necessary 

or if excess collateral is required to be returned to the borrower.  We held, as agent, cash and securities totaling 

$331.73 billion and $312.22 billion as collateral for indemnified securities on loan as of December 31, 2013 and 
December 31, 2012, respectively. 
The cash collateral held by us as agent is invested on behalf of our clients. In certain cases, the cash collateral is invested in third-party repurchase agreements, for which we indemnify the client against loss of the principal 
invested. We require the counterparty to the indemnified repurchase agreement to provide collateral in an amount 

equal to or in excess of 100% of the amount of the repurchase agreement. In our role as agent, the indemnified 
repurchase agreements and the related collateral held by us are not recorded in our consolidated statement of 
condition. Of the collateral of $331.73 billion as of December 31, 2013 and $312.22 billion as of December 31, 2012 
referenced above, $85.37 billion as of December 31, 2013 and $80.22 billion as of December 31, 2012 was 
invested in indemnified repurchase agreements. We or our agents held $91.10 billion and $85.41 billion as collateral 

for indemnified investments in repurchase agreements as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, 
respectively.  
Additional information about our securities finance activities and other off-balance sheet arrangements is 
provided in notes 11 and 16 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES
Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with GAAP, and we apply accounting policies 
that affect the determination of amounts reported in these consolidated financial statements. Our significant 

accounting policies are described in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this 
Form 10-K. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
120The majority of the accounting policies described in note 1 do not involve difficult, subjective or complex 
judgments or estimates in their application, or the variability of the estimates is not material to our consolidated 
financial statements. However, certain of these accounting policies, by their nature, require management to make 

judgments, involving significant estimates and assumptions, about the effects of matters that are inherently 

uncertain. These estimates and assumptions are based on information available as of the date of the consolidated 

financial statements, and changes in this information over time could materially affect the amounts of assets, 

liabilities, equity, revenue and expenses reported in subsequent consolidated financial statements. 
Based on the sensitivity of reported financial statement amounts to the underlying estimates and assumptions, the relatively more significant accounting policies applied by State Street have been identified by management as 
those associated with recurring fair-value measurements, other-than-temporary impairment of investment securities 
and impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. These accounting policies require the most subjective or 

complex judgments, and underlying estimates and assumptions could be most subject to revision as new 
information becomes available. An understanding of the judgments, estimates and assumptions underlying these 

accounting policies is essential in order to understand our reported consolidated results of operations and financial 
condition. The following is a brief discussion of the above-mentioned significant accounting estimates. Management of State Street has discussed these significant accounting estimates with the E&A Committee of the Board. 
Fair-Value Measurements
 We carry certain of our financial assets and liabilities at fair value in our consolidated financial statements on a 
recurring basis, including trading account assets, investment securities available for sale and derivative instruments. As discussed in further detail below, changes in the fair value of these financial assets and liabilities are 
recorded either as components of our consolidated statement of income, or as components of other comprehensive 
income within shareholders' equity in our consolidated statement of condition. In addition to those financial assets 
and liabilities that we carry at fair value in our consolidated financial statements on a recurring basis, we estimate 
the fair values of other financial assets and liabilities that we carry at amortized cost in our consolidated statement 
of condition, and we disclose these fair value estimates in the notes to our consolidated financial statements. We 

estimate the fair values of these financial assets and liabilities using the definition of fair value described below. 
As of December 31, 2013, approximately $105.59 billion of our financial assets and approximately $6.36 billion of our financial liabilities were carried at fair value on a recurring basis, compared to $114.94 billion and $5.43 

billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2012. The amounts as of December 31, 2013 represented approximately 

43% of our consolidated total assets and approximately 3% of our consolidated total liabilities, compared to 52% 
and 3%, respectively, as of December 31, 2012. The decrease in the relative percentage of consolidated total 

assets as of December 31, 2013 compared to 2012 mainly reflected a decline in the investment securities portfolio, 
generally associated with a lower level of purchases in 2013 compared to 2012, and an increase in interest-bearing 
deposits with banks, the result of the continued elevated level of client deposits.  Additional information with respect 

to the assets and liabilities carried by us at fair value on a recurring basis is provided in note 3 to the consolidated 
financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K. GAAP defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the 
principal or most advantageous market for an asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants 
on the measurement date. When we measure fair value for our financial assets and liabilities, we consider the 
principal or the most advantageous market in which we would transact; we also consider assumptions that market 
participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. When possible, we look to active and observable markets 

to measure the fair value of identical, or similar, financial assets and liabilities. When identical financial assets and 

liabilities are not traded in active markets, we look to market-observable data for similar assets and liabilities. In 
some instances, certain assets and liabilities are not actively traded in observable markets; as a result, we use 
alternate valuation techniques to measure their fair value. We categorize the financial assets and liabilities that we carry at fair value in our consolidated statement of 
condition on a recurring basis based on a prescribed three-level valuation hierarchy. The hierarchy gives the highest 

priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1) and the lowest priority to valuation 
methods using significant unobservable inputs (level 3). As of December 31, 2013, including the effect of netting, we 

categorized less than 1% of our financial assets carried at fair value in level 1, approximately 92% of our financial 
assets carried at fair value in level 2, and approximately 7% of our financial assets carried at fair value in level 3 of 
the fair value hierarchy.  As of December 31, 2013, on the same basis, we categorized approximately 1% of our 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
121financial liabilities carried at fair value in level 1, approximately 98% of our financial liabilities carried at fair value in level 2, and approximately 1% of our financial liabilities carried at fair value in level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.   
The assets categorized in level 1 were substantially composed of trading account assets.  Fair value for these securities was measured by management using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical securities. The assets categorized in level 2 were composed of investment securities available for sale and derivative instruments.  Fair value for the investment securities was measured by management primarily using information 
obtained from independent third parties. Information obtained from third parties is subject to review by management 
as part of a validation process. Management utilizes a process to verify the information provided, including an 
understanding of underlying assumptions and the level of market-participant information used to support those 
assumptions. In addition, management compares significant assumptions used by third parties to available market 
information. Such information may include known trades or, to the extent that trading activity is limited, comparisons 

to market research information pertaining to credit expectations, execution prices and the timing of cash flows, and 
where information is available, back-testing. The derivative instruments categorized in level 2 predominantly represented foreign exchange and interest-rate contracts used in our trading activities, for which fair value was measured by management using discounted 
cash flow techniques, with inputs consisting of observable spot and forward points, as well as observable interest 
rate curves. The substantial majority of our financial assets categorized in level 3 were composed of asset-backed and mortgage-backed securities available for sale. Level-3 assets also included foreign exchange derivative contracts.  
The aggregate fair value of our financial assets and liabilities categorized in level 3 as of December 31, 2013 
compared to December 31, 2012 increased approximately 7%, primarily the result of new purchases of asset-
backed and non-U.S. debt securities. With respect to derivative instruments, we evaluated the impact on valuation of the credit risk of our counterparties and of our own credit. We considered such factors as the market-based probability of default by us 

and our counterparties, and our current and expected potential future net exposures by remaining maturities, in 
determining the appropriate measurements of fair value.  Valuation adjustments associated with derivative 

instruments were not significant to our consolidated financial condition in 2013, 2012 or 2011. 
Other-Than-Temporary Impairment of Investment Securities
Our portfolio of fixed-income investment securities constitutes a significant portion of the assets carried in our consolidated statement of condition.  GAAP requires the use of expected future cash flows to evaluate other-than-

temporary impairment of these investment securities.  The amount and timing of these expected future cash flows 

are significant estimates used in our assessment of other-than-temporary impairment.  Additional information with 

respect to management's assessment of other-than-temporary impairment is provided in note 4 to the consolidated 
financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Expectations of defaults and prepayments are the most significant assumptions underlying our estimates of future cash flows. In determining these estimates, management relies on relevant and reliable information, including 
but not limited to deal structure, including optional and mandatory calls, market interest-rate curves, industry 
standard asset-class-specific prepayment models, recent prepayment history, independent credit ratings, and recent 

actual and projected credit losses. Management considers this information based on its relevance and uses its best 
judgment in order to determine its assumptions for underlying cash-flow expectations and resulting estimates. 
Management reviews its underlying assumptions and develops expected future cash-flow estimates at least 
quarterly. Additional detail with respect to the sensitivity of these default and prepayment assumptions is provided 

under ﬁFinancial Condition - Investment Securitiesﬂ in this Management's Discussion and Analysis. 
Impairment of Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
 Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the net tangible and other intangible assets acquired. Other intangible assets represent purchased assets that can be distinguished from 
goodwill because of contractual rights or because the asset can be exchanged on its own or in combination with a 
related contract, asset or liability.  Goodwill is not amortized, while other intangible assets are amortized over their 

estimated useful lives. Substantially all of the goodwill and other intangible assets recorded in our consolidated 
statement of condition have resulted from business acquisitions by our Investment Servicing line of business, with 
the remainder associated with our Investment Management line of business. Goodwill is ultimately supported by revenue from our Investment Servicing and Investment Management lines of business.  A decline in earnings as a result of a lack of growth, or our inability to deliver cost-effective services 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (Continued)
122over sustained periods, could lead to a perceived impairment of goodwill, which would be evaluated and, if 
necessary, be recorded as a write-down of the reported amount of goodwill through a charge to other expenses in 

our consolidated statement of income. On an annual basis, or more frequently if circumstances arise, management reviews goodwill and evaluates events or other developments that may indicate impairment of the carrying amount. We perform this evaluation at 

the reporting unit level, which is one level below our two major lines of business. The evaluation methodology for 

potential impairment is inherently complex and involves significant management judgment in the use of estimates 
and assumptions. We evaluate goodwill for impairment using a two-step process. First, we compare the aggregate fair value of 
the reporting unit to its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the fair value exceeds the carrying amount, no 
impairment exists. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds the fair value, then we compare the ﬁimpliedﬂ 
fair value of the reporting unit's goodwill to its carrying amount. If the carrying amount of the goodwill exceeds the 
implied fair value, then goodwill impairment is recognized by writing the goodwill down to the implied fair value. The 

implied fair value of the goodwill is determined by allocating the fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets 
and liabilities of that unit, as if the unit had been acquired in a business combination and the overall fair value of the 
unit was the purchase price. To determine the aggregate fair value of the reporting unit being evaluated for goodwill impairment, we use one 
of two principal methodologies: a market approach, based on a comparison of the reporting unit to publicly-traded 
companies in similar lines of business; or an income approach, based on the value of the cash flows that the 
business can be expected to generate in the future. Events that may indicate impairment include significant or adverse changes in the business, economic or political climate; an adverse action or assessment by a regulator; unanticipated competition; and a more-likely-than-
not expectation that we will sell or otherwise dispose of a business to which the goodwill or other intangible assets 
relate. Additional information about goodwill and other intangible assets, including information by line of business, is 

provided in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K. Our evaluation of goodwill and other intangible assets indicated that no significant impairment occurred in 2013, 2012 or 2011. Goodwill and other intangible assets recorded in our consolidated statement of condition as of 

December 31, 2013 totaled approximately $6.04 billion and $2.36 billion, respectively, compared to $5.98 billion and 

$2.54 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2012.
RECENT ACCOUNTING DEVELOPMENTS
Information with respect to recent accounting developments is provided in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements included under Item 8 of this Form 10-K.ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
The information provided under ﬁFinancial Condition - Risk Management - Market Riskﬂ in Management™s 
Discussion and Analysis, included under Item 7 of this Form 10-K, is incorporated by reference herein.
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
Additional information about restrictions on the transfer of funds from State Street Bank to the parent company is provided under Item 5, and in ﬁFinancial Condition - Capitalﬂ in Management™s Discussion and Analysis included 

under Item 7, of this Form 10-K.123Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
THE SHAREHOLDERS AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
STATE STREET CORPORATION
We have audited the accompanying consolidated statement of condition of State Street Corporation (the 
ﬁCorporationﬂ) as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the related consolidated statements of income, 
comprehensive income, changes in shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period 

ended December 31, 2013. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Corporation's management. Our 

responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight 
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance 

about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test 

basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes 

assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the 
overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the 
consolidated financial position of State Street Corporation at December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the consolidated 
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2013, in 
conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 
(United States), State Street Corporation's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based 
on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (1992 framework) and our report dated February 21, 2014 expressed 

an unqualified opinion thereon.           /s/ Ernst & Young LLP 

Boston, Massachusetts February 21, 2014 124STATE STREET CORPORATION
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Statement of IncomeYears Ended December 31,201320122011
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)Fee revenue:Servicing fees$4,819
$4,414$4,382
Management fees1,106993917
Trading services1,0611,0101,220
Securities finance359405378
Processing fees and other245266297
Total fee revenue7,5907,0887,194
Net interest revenue:Interest revenue2,7143,0142,946
Interest expense411476613
Net interest revenue2,3032,5382,333
Gains (losses) related to investment securities, net:Net gains (losses) from sales of available-for-sale securities1455140
Losses from other-than-temporary impairment(21)(53)(123)
Losses reclassified (from) to other comprehensive income(2)
2150
Gains (losses) related to investment securities, net(9)
2367
Total revenue9,8849,6499,594
Provision for loan losses6(3)Š
Expenses:Compensation and employee benefits3,8003,8373,820
Information systems and communications935844776
Transaction processing services733702732
Occupancy467470455
Claims resolutionŠ(362)Š
Acquisition and restructuring costs104225269
Professional services392381347
Amortization of other intangible assets214198200
Other547591459
Total expenses7,1926,8867,058
Income before income tax expense2,6862,7662,536
Income tax expense550705616
Net income$2,136
$2,061$1,920
Net income available to common shareholders$2,102
$2,019$1,882
Earnings per common share:Basic$4.71
$4.25$3.82
Diluted$4.62
$4.20$3.79
Average common shares outstanding (in thousands):Basic446,245474,458492,598
Diluted455,155481,129496,072
Cash dividends declared per common share$1.04
$.96$.72
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.125Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive IncomeYears Ended December 31,201320122011
(In millions)Net income$2,136
$2,061$1,920
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of related taxes:
Foreign currency translation, net of related taxes of $(20), $45 and $68, respectively95134(216)
Change in net unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities, net of reclassificationadjustment and net of related taxes of $(521), $469 and $242, respectively(826)798328
Change in net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities designated in fairvalue hedges, net of related taxes of $56, $17 and $(49), respectively8627(75)
Other-than-temporary impairment on held-to-maturity securities related to factors otherthan credit, net of related taxes of $11, $13 and $15, respectively182125
Change in net unrealized losses on cash flow hedges, net of related taxes of $62, $52 and$3, respectively92746
Change in net unrealized losses on retirement plans, net of related taxes of $71, $(36) and$(15), respectively80(35)(38)
Other comprehensive income (loss)(455)
1,01930
Total comprehensive income$1,681
$3,080$1,950
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.126Consolidated Statement of ConditionAs of December 31,20132012
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts) Assets:Cash and due from banks$3,220
$2,590
Interest-bearing deposits with banks64,25750,763Securities purchased under resale agreements6,2305,016Trading account assets843637Investment securities available for sale99,174109,682Investment securities held to maturity (fair value of $17,560 and $11,661)17,74011,379Loans and leases (less allowance for losses of $28 and $22)13,45812,285Premises and equipment (net of accumulated depreciation of $4,417 and $4,037)1,8601,728Accrued interest and fees receivable2,1231,970Goodwill6,0365,977Other intangible assets2,3602,539Other assets25,99018,016Total assets$243,291
$222,582
Liabilities:Deposits:Noninterest-bearing$65,614
$44,445
Interest-bearingŠU.S.13,39219,201Interest-bearingŠnon-U.S.103,262100,535Total deposits182,268164,181Securities sold under repurchase agreements7,9538,006Federal funds purchased19399Other short-term borrowings3,7804,502Accrued expenses and other liabilities19,19417,196Long-term debt9,6997,429Total liabilities222,913201,713Commitments, guarantees and contingencies (note 11)Shareholders™ equity:
Preferred stock, no par, 3,500,000 shares authorized:Series C, 5,000 shares issued and outstanding491489Common stock, $1 par, 750,000,000 shares authorized:503,882,841 and 503,900,268 shares issued504504Surplus9,7769,667Retained earnings13,39511,751Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)(95)360Treasury stock, at cost (69,754,255 and 45,238,208 shares)(3,693)(1,902)Total shareholders™ equity20,37820,869Total liabilities and shareholders™ equity$243,291
$222,582
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.127Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity(Dollars in millions, except per shareamounts, shares in thousands)PREFERREDSTOCK
COMMON STOCKSurplusRetainedEarningsAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome (Loss)TREASURYSTOCKTotalSharesAmountSharesAmount
Balance as of December 31, 2010$Š502,064$502$9,356$8,634$(689)420$(16)$17,787
Net income1,9201,920
Other comprehensive income3030
Preferred stock issued500
500Cash dividends declared:Common stock - $.72 per share(358)(358)

Preferred stock(20)(20)
Common stock acquired16,313(675)(675)
Common stock awards and optionsexercised, including related taxes of $(14)1,9022223(177)10235
Other(22)(14)1(21)
Balance as of December 31, 2011500503,9665049,55710,176(659)16,542(680)19,398
Net income2,0612,061
Other comprehensive income1,0191,019
Redemption of preferred stock(500)
(500)
Preferred stock issued488
488Accretion of issuance costs1(1)Š

Cash dividends declared:Common stock - $.96 per share(456)(456)

Preferred stock(29)(29)
Common stock acquired33,408(1,440)(1,440)
Common stock awards and optionsexercised, including related taxes of $(6)(66)110(4,693)217327
Other(19)11
Balance at December 31, 2012489503,9005049,66711,75136045,238(1,902)20,869
Net income2,1362,136
Other comprehensive loss(455)(455)
Accretion of issuance costs2(2)Š
Cash dividends declared:Common stock - $1.04 per share(463)(463)
Preferred stock(26)(26)
Common stock acquired31,237(2,040)(2,040)
Common stock awards and optionsexercised, including income tax benefit of
$51(17)113(6,709)249362
Other(4)(1)(12)(5)
Balance as of December 31, 2013$491503,883$504$9,776$13,395$(95)69,754$(3,693)$20,378
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.128Consolidated Statement of Cash FlowsYears Ended December 31,201320122011
(In millions)
Operating Activities:Net income$2,136
$2,061$1,920
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash (used in) provided by operating activities:Deferred income tax expense112225218
Amortization of other intangible assets214198200
Other non-cash adjustments for depreciation, amortization and accretion, net461291218
Losses (gains) related to investment securities, net9(23)(67)
Change in trading account assets, net(206)
70(183)
Change in accrued interest and fees receivable, net(153)
(148)(89)
Change in collateral deposits, net(4,046)
(1,443)817
Change in unrealized (gains) losses on foreign exchange derivatives, net(128)
982(622)
Change in other assets, net(819)
(360)1,269
Change in trading liabilities, netŠŠ(441)
Change in accrued expenses and other liabilities, net113(250)(147)
Other, net333324281
Net cash (used in) provided by operating activities(1,974)
1,9273,374
Investing Activities:Net (increase) decrease in interest-bearing deposits with banks(13,494)8,123(36,652)
Net (increase) decrease in securities purchased under resale agreements(1,214)
2,029(4,117)
Proceeds from sales of available-for-sale securities10,2615,39916,272
Proceeds from maturities of available-for-sale securities37,52944,37544,810
Purchases of available-for-sale securities(39,097)(60,812)(78,748)
Proceeds from maturities of held-to-maturity securities2,0803,1763,653
Purchases of held-to-maturity securities(8,415)
(3,577)(457)
Net (increase) decrease in loans(1,214)
(2,303)1,638
Business acquisitions, net of cash acquiredŠ(511)(214)
Purchases of equity investments and other long-term assets(272)
(251)(69)
Divestitures18ŠŠPurchases of premises and equipment(388)
(355)(298)
Other, net121116287
Net cash used in investing activities(14,085)(4,591)(53,895)
Financing Activities:Net (decrease) increase in time deposits(14,507)7,627(124)
Net increase (decrease) in all other deposits32,594(733)59,066
Net decrease in short-term borrowings(1,155)
(1,587)(8,555)
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt, net of issuance costs2,4859981,986
Payments for long-term debt and obligations under capital leases(134)
(1,781)(2,486)
Proceeds from issuance of preferred stockŠ488500
Proceeds from exercises of common stock options1215349
Purchases of common stock(2,040)
(1,440)(675)
Repurchases of common stock for employee tax withholding(189)
(101)(63)
Payments for cash dividends(486)
(463)(295)
Net cash provided by financing activities16,6893,06149,403
Net increase (decrease)630397(1,118)
Cash and due from banks at beginning of period2,5902,1933,311
Cash and due from banks at end of period$3,220
$2,590$2,193
Supplemental disclosure:Interest paid$416
$516$611
Income taxes (refunded) paid, net406(186)305
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.129STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Table of Contents
Note 1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies130
Note 2. Acquisitions
137Note 3. Fair Value
137Note 4. Investment Securities150Note 5. Loans and Leases158Note 6. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets161

Note 7. Other Assets
163Note 8. Deposits163Note 9. Short-Term Borrowings
163Note 10. Long-Term Debt
165Note 11. Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies167

Note 12. Variable Interest Entities
171Note 13. Shareholders™ Equity
172Note 14. Equity-Based Compensation174Note 15. Regulatory Matters177Note 16. Derivative Financial Instruments179

Note 17. Offsetting Arrangements
184Note 18. Net Interest Revenue188Note 19. Employee Benefits188Note 20. Occupancy Expense and Information Systems and Commitment Expense197

Note 21. Acquisition and Restructuring Costs198

Note 22. Other Expenses199Note 23. Income Taxes
200Note 24. Earnings Per Common Share203

Note 25. Line of Business Information203Note 26. Non-U.S. Activities
205Note 27. Parent Company Financial Statements205
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
130Note 1.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
The accounting and financial reporting policies of State Street Corporation conform to U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, referred to as GAAP. State Street Corporation, the parent company, is a financial holding 

company headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts. Unless otherwise indicated or unless the context requires 
otherwise, all references in these notes to consolidated financial statements to ﬁState Street,ﬂ ﬁwe,ﬂ ﬁus,ﬂ ﬁourﬂ or 
similar references mean State Street Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. Our principal banking 
subsidiary is State Street Bank and Trust Company, or State Street Bank.
We have two lines of business: 

Investment Servicing provides services for mutual funds, collective investment funds and other investment pools, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies, foundations and endowments worldwide. 
Products include custody; product- and participant-level accounting; daily pricing and administration; master trust 
and master custody; record-keeping; cash management; foreign exchange, brokerage and other trading services; 
securities finance; deposit and short-term investment facilities; loans and lease financing; investment manager and 
alternative investment manager operations outsourcing; and performance, risk and compliance analytics to support 
institutional investors. Investment Management, through State Street Global Advisors, or SSgA, provides a broad array of investment 
management, investment research and investment advisory services to corporations, public funds and other 
sophisticated investors.  SSgA offers strategies for managing financial assets, including passive and active, such as 

enhanced indexing, using quantitative and fundamental methods for both U.S. and global equities and fixed-income 
securities.  SSgA also offers exchange-traded funds, or ETFs, such as the SPDR
® ETF brand.  The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make 
estimates and assumptions in the application of certain of our significant accounting policies that may materially 
affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, equity, revenue and expenses. As a result of unanticipated events 

or circumstances, actual results could differ from those estimates. Amounts dependent on subjective or complex 

judgments in the application of accounting policies considered by management to be relatively more significant in 
this regard are those associated with our accounting for recurring fair-value measurements; other-than-temporary 
impairment of investment securities; and impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets. Among other effects, 

unanticipated events or circumstances could result in future impairment of investment securities, goodwill or other 
intangible assets.Basis of Presentation:Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the parent company and its majority- and wholly-owned subsidiaries, including State Street Bank. All material inter-company transactions and balances have been 

eliminated. Certain previously reported amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation.We consolidate subsidiaries in which we exercise control. Investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries, 
recorded in other assets, generally are accounted for under the equity method of accounting if we have the ability to 
exercise significant influence over the operations of the investee. For investments accounted for under the equity 
method, our share of income or loss is recorded in processing fees and other revenue in our consolidated statement 
of income. Investments not meeting the criteria for equity-method treatment are accounted for under the cost 
method of accounting.Fair-Value Measurements:
We carry certain of our financial assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis. These financial assets 
and liabilities are composed of trading account assets, investment securities available for sale and various types of 
derivative financial instruments. In addition, we measure certain assets, such as goodwill, investment securities held 
to maturity and other long-lived assets, at fair value on a non-recurring basis to evaluate those assets for potential 
impairment. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in 
an orderly transaction between market participants as of the measurement date.We categorize our financial assets and liabilities into the following fair value hierarchy:

Level 1 Œ Financial assets and liabilities with values based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market. Examples of level-1 financial instruments include active exchange-traded equity 
securities and certain U.S. government securities.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
131Level 2 Œ Financial assets and liabilities with values based on quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially 

the full term of the asset or liability. Examples of level-2 financial instruments include various types of fixed-income 

investment securities and foreign exchange and interest-rate derivative instruments. Pricing models are utilized to 
measure fair value for certain financial assets and liabilities categorized in level 2.Level 3 Œ Financial assets and liabilities with values based on prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable in the market and significant to the overall fair-value measurement. These inputs reflect 

management™s judgment about the assumptions that a market participant would use in pricing the asset or liability, 

and are based on the best available information, some of which is internally developed. Examples of level-3 
financial instruments include certain asset- and mortgage-backed securities and certain derivative instruments with 
little or no market activity and a resulting lack of price transparency.
When measuring fair value for financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value on a recurring basis, we consider the principal or most advantageous market in which we would transact and consider assumptions that 
market participants would use when pricing the asset or liability. When possible, we look to active and observable 

markets to price identical assets or liabilities. When identical assets and liabilities are not traded in active markets, 
we look to market observable data for similar assets and liabilities. Nevertheless, certain assets and liabilities are 
not actively traded in observable markets; in those instances, we use alternative valuation techniques to measure 
their fair value.Foreign Currency Translation:
The assets and liabilities of our operations with functional currencies other than the U.S. dollar are translated at month-end exchange rates, and revenue and expenses are translated at rates that approximate average monthly 
exchange rates. Gains or losses from the translation of the net assets of subsidiaries with functional currencies 
other than the U.S. dollar, net of related taxes, are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, or AOCI, 

a component of shareholders™ equity.
Cash and Cash Equivalents:For purposes of the consolidated statement of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents are defined as cash and due from banks.Interest-Bearing Deposits with Banks:Interest-bearing deposits with banks generally consist of highly liquid, short-term investments maintained at the Federal Reserve Bank and other non-U.S. central banks with original maturities at the time of purchase of one 
month or less.  Securities Purchased Under Resale Agreements and Securities Sold Under Repurchase Agreements:
Securities purchased under resale agreements and sold under repurchase agreements are treated as collateralized financing transactions, and are recorded in our consolidated statement of condition at the amounts at 
which the securities will be subsequently resold or repurchased, plus accrued interest. Our policy is to take 
possession or control of securities underlying resale agreements either directly or through agent banks, allowing 
borrowers the right of collateral substitution and/or short-notice termination. We revalue these securities daily to 

determine if additional collateral is necessary from the borrower to protect us against credit exposure. We can use 

these securities as collateral for repurchase agreements. For securities sold under repurchase agreements 
collateralized by our investment securities portfolio, the dollar value of the securities remains in investment 
securities in our consolidated statement of condition. Where a master netting agreement exists or both parties are 
members of a common clearing organization, resale and repurchase agreements with the same counterparty or 
clearing house and maturity date are recorded on a net basis.Investment Securities:Investment securities held by us are classified as either trading account assets, investment securities available for sale or investment securities held to maturity at the time of purchase, based on management™s intent.
Generally, trading account assets are debt and equity securities purchased in connection with our trading 
activities and, as such, are expected to be sold in the near term. Our trading activities typically involve active and 
frequent buying and selling with the objective of generating profits on short-term movements. Securities available 
for sale are those securities that we intend to hold for an indefinite period of time. Available-for-sale securities 

include securities utilized as part of our asset-and-liability management activities that may be sold in response to STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
132changes in interest rates, prepayment risk, liquidity needs or other factors. Securities held to maturity are debt 
securities that management has the intent and the ability to hold to maturity.
Trading account assets are carried at fair value. Both realized and unrealized gains and losses on trading 
account assets are recorded in trading services revenue in our consolidated statement of income. Debt and 
marketable equity securities classified as available for sale are carried at fair value, and after-tax net unrealized 
gains and losses are recorded in AOCI. Gains or losses realized on sales of available-for-sale securities are 

computed using the specific identification method and are recorded in gains (losses) related to investment 
securities, net, in our consolidated statement of income. Securities held to maturity are carried at cost, adjusted for 
amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts.We review the fair values of debt securities, and evaluate individual available-for-sale and held-to-maturity 
securities for impairment that may be deemed to be other than temporary, at least quarterly. For impaired securities 

that we plan to sell, or when it is more likely than not that we will be forced to sell the security, the impairment is 

deemed to be other than temporary and the security is written down to its fair value. Otherwise, we determine 
whether or not we expect to recover the entire amortized cost basis of the security, primarily by comparing the 

present value of expected future principal, interest and other contractual cash flows to the security™s amortized cost. 

Our evaluation of impairment of mortgage- and asset-backed securities incorporates detailed information with 
respect to underlying loan-level performance. Accordingly, the range of estimates pertaining to each collateral type 

reflects the unique characteristics of the underlying loans, such as payment options and collateral geography, 

among other factors. When we conclude that other-than-temporary impairment exists and we have no intention to sell, or will not be forced to sell, the security, the impairment is separated into the amount associated with expected credit losses and 

the amount related to factors other than credit. The amount associated with expected credit losses is recognized in 

our consolidated statement of income in gains (losses) related to investment securities, net, and the amortized cost 
basis of the security is written down by this amount. The portion of impairment related to all other factors is 

recognized in other comprehensive income.Interest revenue related to debt securities is recognized in our consolidated statement of income using the interest method, or on a basis approximating a level rate of return over the contractual or estimated life of the 
security. The level rate of return considers any nonrefundable fees or costs, as well as purchase premiums or 

discounts, resulting in amortization or accretion, accordingly.
With respect to debt securities acquired, for those which we consider it probable as of the date of acquisition that we will be unable to collect all contractually required principal, interest and other payments, the excess of our 
estimate of undiscounted future cash flows from these securities over their initial recorded investment is accreted 
into interest revenue on a level-yield basis over the securities™ estimated remaining terms. Subsequent decreases in 

these securities™ expected future cash flows are either recognized prospectively through an adjustment of the yields 

on the securities over their remaining terms, or are evaluated for other-than-temporary impairment as described 
above. Increases in expected future cash flows are recognized prospectively over the securities™ estimated 

remaining terms through the recalculation of their yields.With respect to certain debt securities acquired which are considered to be beneficial interests in securitized financial assets, the excess of our estimate of undiscounted future cash flows from these securities over their initial 
recorded investment is accreted into interest revenue on a level-yield basis over the securities™ estimated remaining 

terms. Subsequent decreases in these securities™ expected future cash flows are either recognized prospectively 

through an adjustment of the yields on the securities over their remaining terms, or are evaluated for other-than-
temporary impairment as described above. Increases in expected future cash flows are recognized prospectively 
over the securities™ estimated remaining terms through the recalculation of their yields.
Loans and Leases:Loans are generally recorded at their principal amount outstanding, net of the allowance for loan losses, unearned income, and any net unamortized deferred loan origination fees.  Acquired loans are initially recorded at 

fair value on the date of acquisition, based on management™s expectation with respect to future principal and 

interest collection as of the date of acquisition.  Acquired loans are held for investment, and as such their initial fair 

value is not adjusted subsequent to acquisition.Loans acquired with evidence of deterioration in credit quality subsequent to origination, and for which our inability to collect all contractually required payments is probable on the date of acquisition, are recorded at fair 
value. The excess of expected future cash flows from these loans over their initial recorded investment, which 
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
133represents the initial allowance, is accreted into interest revenue on a level-yield basis over the remaining term of 
the loans. The carrying amount of acquired loans is assessed on an ongoing basis using a discounted cash-flow 

model, which incorporates management expectations of prepayments. Subsequent decreases in expected cash 
flows result in an addition to the initial allowance to allow the loan to maintain its level yield. Increases in expected 
cash flows are recognized, first, as a reduction of any remaining allowance, and then are recognized prospectively 
over the remaining term of the loan through a recalculation of the loan™s level yield.
Interest revenue related to loans is recognized in our consolidated statement of income using the interest method or on a basis approximating a level rate of return over the term of the loan. Fees received for providing loan 
commitments and letters of credit that we anticipate will result in loans typically are deferred and amortized to 
interest revenue over the term of the related loan, beginning with the initial borrowing. Fees on commitments and 
letters of credit are amortized to processing fees and other revenue over the commitment period when funding is 
not known or expected.For all loan classes, other than loans acquired with evidence of deterioration in credit quality, loans are placed 
on non-accrual status when they become 60 days past due as to either principal or interest, or earlier when full 
collection of principal or interest is not considered probable. Loans 60 days past due, but considered both well-
secured and in the process of collection, are treated as exceptions and may be excluded from non-accrual status. 
When we place a loan on non-accrual status, the accrual of interest is discontinued and previously recorded but 
unpaid interest is reversed and generally charged against interest revenue. For loans on non-accrual status, 
revenue is recognized on a cash basis after recovery of principal, if and when interest payments are received. 
Loans may be removed from non-accrual status when repayment is reasonably assured and performance under the 
terms of the loan has been demonstrated.In certain circumstances, we restructure troubled loans by granting concessions to borrowers experiencing financial difficulty. Once restructured, the loans are generally considered impaired until their maturity, regardless of 

whether the borrowers perform under the modified terms of the loans.Leveraged-lease investments are reported at the aggregate of lease payments receivable and estimated residual values, net of non-recourse debt and unearned income. Lease residual values are reviewed regularly for 
other-than-temporary impairment, with valuation adjustments recorded currently against processing fees and other 
revenue. Unearned income is recognized to yield a level rate of return on the net investment in the leases. Gains 
and losses on residual values of leased equipment sold are recorded in processing fees and other revenue.Allowance for Loan Losses:The allowance for loan losses, recorded as a reduction of loans and leases in our consolidated statement of condition, represents management™s estimate of incurred credit losses in our loan-and-lease portfolio as of the 

balance sheet date. The allowance is evaluated on a regular basis by management. Factors considered in 

evaluating the appropriate level of the allowance for both the institutional and commercial real estate segments of 
our loan-and-lease portfolio include loss experience, the probability of default reflected in our internal risk rating of 
the counterparty's creditworthiness, current economic conditions and adverse situations that may affect the 

borrower™s ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral, if any, the performance of individual 

credits in relation to contract terms, and other relevant factors. Provisions for loan losses reflect our estimate of the 
amount necessary to maintain the allowance at a level considered by us to be appropriate to absorb estimated 
incurred credit losses in the loan-and-lease portfolio.Loans are charged off to the allowance for loan losses in the reporting period in which either an event occurs 
that confirms the existence of a loss on a loan or a portion of a loan is determined to be uncollectible. In addition, 
any impaired loan that is determined to be collateral-dependent is reduced to an amount equal to the fair value of 
the collateral less costs to sell. A loan is identified as collateral-dependent when management determines that it is 

probable that the underlying collateral will be the sole source of repayment. Recoveries are recorded on a cash 
basis as adjustments to the allowance.The reserve for off-balance sheet credit exposures, recorded in accrued expenses and other liabilities in our 
consolidated statement of condition, represents management™s estimate of probable credit losses in outstanding 

letters and lines of credit and other credit-enhancement facilities provided to our clients and outstanding as of the 
balance sheet date.  The reserve is evaluated on a regular basis by management.  Factors considered in evaluating 

the appropriate level of this reserve are similar to those considered with respect to the allowance for loan losses. 
Provisions to maintain the reserve at a level considered by us to be appropriate to absorb estimated incurred credit 
losses in outstanding facilities are recorded in other expenses in our consolidated statement of income.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
134Premises and Equipment:Buildings, leasehold improvements, computer hardware and software and other equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization, recorded in occupancy expense 
and information systems and communications expense in our consolidated statement of income, are computed 
using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the related assets or the remaining terms of the 
leases, generally three to forty years. Maintenance and repairs are charged to expense as incurred, while major 
leasehold improvements are capitalized and expensed over their estimated useful lives or the remaining terms of 
the lease, whichever is shorter.
For premises held under leases for which we have an obligation to restore the facilities to their original condition upon expiration of the lease, we expense the anticipated related costs over the term of the lease.Costs related to internal-use software development projects that provide significant new functionality are capitalized. We consider projects for capitalization that are expected to yield long-term operational benefits, such as 

applications that result in operational efficiencies and/or incremental revenue streams.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets:
Goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of the net tangible and other intangible assets acquired. Other intangible assets represent purchased assets that can be distinguished from 
goodwill because of contractual rights or because the asset can be exchanged on its own or in combination with a 
related contract, asset or liability. Goodwill is not amortized, but is subject to annual evaluation for impairment. Other 

intangible assets, which are also subject to annual evaluation for impairment, are mainly related to client 
relationships, which are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from five to twenty years, and core 

deposit intangible assets, which are amortized over periods ranging from sixteen to twenty-two years, with such 
amortization recorded in other expenses in our consolidated statement of income. Impairment of goodwill is deemed to exist if the carrying value of a reporting unit, including its allocation of goodwill and other intangible assets, exceeds its estimated fair value. Impairment of other intangible assets is 
deemed to exist if the balance of the other intangible asset exceeds the cumulative expected net cash inflows 
related to the asset over its remaining estimated useful life. If these reviews determine that goodwill or other 
intangible assets are impaired, the value of the goodwill or the other intangible asset is written down through a 
charge to other expenses in our consolidated statement of income.Fee and Net Interest Revenue:Fees from investment servicing, investment management, securities finance, trading services and certain types of processing fees and other revenue are recorded in our consolidated statement of income based on 
estimates or specific contractual terms as transactions occur or services are rendered, provided that persuasive 
evidence exists, the price to the client is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Amounts 

accrued at period-end are recorded in accrued interest and fees receivable in our consolidated statement of 
condition. Performance fees generated by our investment management activities are recorded when earned, based 
on predetermined benchmarks associated with the applicable fund™s performance.
Interest revenue on interest-earning assets and interest expense on interest-bearing liabilities are recorded in our consolidated statement of income as components of net interest revenue, and are generally based on the 
effective yield of the related financial asset or liability.
Employee Benefits Expense:Employee benefits expense, recorded in our consolidated statement of income, includes costs of certain pension and other post-retirement benefit plans related to prior and current service, which are accrued on a current 
basis, as well as contributions associated with defined contribution savings plans, costs of unrestricted cash and 
common stock awards under other employee incentive compensation plans, and the amortization of restricted 
common stock awards.Equity-Based Compensation:We record compensation expense for equity-based awards. Accordingly, we measure compensation expense 
at fair value on a straight-line basis over the service or performance period, net of estimated forfeitures.The fair values of equity-based awards, such as restricted stock, deferred stock and performance awards, are based on the closing price of our common stock on the date of grant, adjusted if appropriate based on the award™s 
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
135eligibility to receive dividends. The fair value of stock options and stock appreciation rights is determined using the 

Black-Scholes valuation model. Compensation expense related to equity-based awards with service-only conditions and terms that provide for a graded vesting schedule is recognized on a straight-line basis over the required service period for the entire 
award. Compensation expense related to equity-based awards with performance conditions and terms that provide 
for a graded vesting schedule is recognized over the requisite service period for each separately vesting tranche of 
the award, and is based on the probable outcome of the performance conditions at each reporting date. 
Compensation expense is adjusted for assumptions with respect to the estimated amount of awards that will be 
forfeited prior to vesting, and for employees who have met certain retirement eligibility criteria. Dividend equivalents for certain equity-based awards are paid on stock units on a current basis prior to vesting and distribution. Compensation expense for common stock and cash awards granted to employees meeting early 
retirement eligibility criteria is fully expensed and accrued on the grant date.Income Taxes:
We use an asset-and-liability approach to account for income taxes. Our objective is to recognize the amount 
of taxes payable or refundable for the current year through charges or credits to the current tax provision, and to 
recognize deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities for the future tax consequences resulting from temporary 
differences between the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and their respective tax bases. 

The measurement of tax assets and liabilities is based on enacted tax laws and applicable tax rates. The effects of 

a tax position on our consolidated financial statements are recognized when we believe it is more likely than not that 
the position will be sustained. A deferred-tax-asset valuation allowance is established if it is considered more likely 

than not that all or a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.  Deferred tax assets and deferred tax 
liabilities recorded in our consolidated statement of condition are netted within the same tax jurisdiction.  Earnings Per Share:Basic earnings per share, or EPS, is calculated pursuant to the ﬁtwo-classﬂ method, by dividing net income available to common shareholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the 
period. Diluted EPS is calculated pursuant to the two-class method, by dividing net income available to common 
shareholders by the total of weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period plus the shares 
representing the dilutive effect of common stock options and other equity-based awards. The effect of common 

stock options and other equity-based awards is excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS in periods in which 
their effect would be anti-dilutive.
The two-class method requires the allocation of undistributed net income between common and participating shareholders. Net income available to common shareholders, presented separately in our consolidated statement of 
income, is the basis for the calculation of both basic and diluted EPS. Participating securities are composed of 
unvested restricted stock and director stock awards, which are equity-based awards that contain non-forfeitable 
rights to dividends, and are considered to participate with common shareholders in undistributed earnings.Variable Interest Entities:
We are involved in the normal course of our business with various types of special purpose entities, some of 
which meet the definition of variable interest entities, or VIEs, as defined by GAAP. We are required by GAAP to 

consolidate a VIE when we are deemed to be the primary beneficiary.  This determination is evaluated periodically 

as facts and circumstances change.We also invest in various forms of asset-backed securities, which we carry in our investment securities 
portfolio. These asset-backed securities meet the GAAP definition of asset securitization entities, which are 

considered to be VIEs. We are not considered to be the primary beneficiary of these VIEs, as defined by GAAP, 

since we do not have control over their activities. We use special purpose entities to structure and sell certificated interests in pools of tax-exempt investment-
grade assets, principally to our mutual fund clients. These trusts are recorded in our consolidated financial 

statements. We transfer assets to these trusts, which are legally isolated from us, from our investment securities 

portfolio at adjusted book value. The trusts finance the acquisition of these assets by selling certificated interests 

issued by the trusts to third-party investors and to State Street as residual holder. The investment securities of the 

trusts are carried in investment securities available for sale at their fair value on a recurring basis. The certificated 

interests are carried in other short-term borrowings at the amount owed to the third-party investors. The interest 

revenue and interest expense generated by the investments and certificated interests, respectively, are recorded 
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
136as components of net interest revenue when earned or incurred. We manage various types of sponsored investment funds through SSgA.  The services we provide to these 
sponsored investment funds generate management fee revenue.  From time to time, we may invest cash in the 
funds, referred to as seed capital, in order for the funds to establish a performance history for newly-launched 
strategies.  With respect to our interests in sponsored investment funds that meet the definition of a VIE, a primary 
beneficiary assessment is performed to determine if our variable interest (or combination of variable interests, 
including those of related parties) absorbs the majority of the entity™s expected losses, receives a majority of the 

entity™s expected residual returns, or both. As part of our assessment, we consider all the facts and circumstances 

regarding the terms and characteristics of the variable interest(s), the design and characteristics of the fund and the 
other involvements of the enterprise with the fund. Upon consolidation of certain sponsored investment funds, we 
retain the specialized investment company accounting rules followed by the underlying funds.  All of the underlying investments held by such consolidated sponsored investment funds are carried at fair value, with corresponding changes in the investments™ fair values reflected in trading services revenue in our 

consolidated statement of income. When we no longer control these funds due to a reduced ownership interest or 
other reasons, the funds are de-consolidated and accounted for under another accounting method if we continue to 
maintain an investment in the fund.Derivative Financial Instruments:A derivative financial instrument is a financial instrument or other contract which has one or more referenced 
indices and one or more notional amounts, either no initial net investment or a smaller initial net investment than 
would be expected for similar types of contracts, and which requires or permits net settlement. Derivatives that we 
enter into include forwards, futures, swaps, options and other instruments with similar characteristics.We record derivatives in our consolidated statement of condition at their fair value on a recurring basis. On the 
date a derivative contract is entered into, we designate the derivative as: (1) a hedge of the fair value of a 
recognized fixed-rate asset or liability or of an unrecognized firm commitment (a ﬁfair-valueﬂ hedge); (2) a hedge of 
a forecast transaction or of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized variable-rate 
asset or liability (a ﬁcash-flowﬂ hedge); (3) a foreign currency fair value or cash flow hedge (a ﬁforeign currencyﬂ 
hedge); (4) a hedge of a net investment in a non-U.S. operation; or (5) a derivative utilized in either our trading 
activities or in our asset-and-liability management activities that is not designated as a hedge of an asset or liability.
Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective, and that is designated and qualifies as a fair-
value hedge, are recorded currently in processing fees and other revenue, along with the changes in fair value of 
the hedged asset or liability attributable to the hedged risk. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly 
effective, and that is designated and qualifies as a cash-flow hedge, are recorded, net of taxes, in other 

comprehensive income, until earnings are affected by the hedged cash flows (
e.g., when periodic settlements on a variable-rate asset or liability are recorded in earnings). Ineffectiveness of cash-flow hedges, defined as the extent 

to which the changes in fair value of the derivative exceed the variability of cash flows of the forecast transaction, is 
recorded in processing fees and other revenue.Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly effective, and that is designated and qualifies as a 
foreign currency hedge, are recorded currently either in processing fees and other revenue or in other 
comprehensive income, net of taxes, depending on whether the hedge transaction meets the criteria for a fair-value 
or a cash-flow hedge. If, however, a derivative is used as a hedge of a net investment in a non-U.S. operation, 

its changes in fair value, to the extent effective as a hedge, are recorded, net of taxes, in the foreign currency 

translation component of other comprehensive income. Lastly, entire changes in the fair value of derivatives utilized 

in our trading activities are recorded in trading services revenue, and entire changes in the fair value of derivatives 
utilized in our asset-and-liability management activities are recorded in processing fees and other revenue.At both the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, we formally assess and document the effectiveness of a derivative designated as a hedge in offsetting changes in the fair value of hedged items and the 

likelihood that the derivative will be an effective hedge in future periods. We discontinue hedge accounting 

prospectively when we determine that the derivative is no longer highly effective in offsetting changes in fair value or 

cash flows of the underlying risk being hedged, the derivative expires, terminates or is sold, or management 
discontinues the hedge designation.Unrealized gains and losses on foreign exchange and interest-rate contracts are reported at fair value in our consolidated statement of condition as a component of other assets and accrued expenses and other liabilities, STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
137respectively, on a gross basis, except where such gains and losses arise from contracts covered by qualifying 

master netting agreements.Recent Accounting Developments:
In January 2014, the FASB issued an amendment to GAAP that allows an investor in an affordable housing 
project, if the project meets certain conditions, to amortize the cost of their investment in proportion to the tax credits 
and other tax benefits they receive, and reflect it as part of income tax expense rather than revenue from 
operations.  The amendment is effective, for State Street, for interim and annual periods beginning after December 

15, 2014, and must be applied retrospectively.  Early adoption is permitted.  Our adoption of the amendment is not 

expected to have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.
In July 2013, the FASB issued an amendment to GAAP that requires a liability associated with an 
unrecognized tax benefit, or a portion of that unrecognized tax benefit, to be presented in the financial statements 
as a reduction of a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit 
carryforward.  The amendment is effective, for State Street, for interim and annual periods beginning on January 1, 

2014, and is required to be applied on a prospective basis.  Our adoption of the amendment will not have a material 
effect on our consolidated financial statements.
In June 2013, the FASB issued an amendment to GAAP that prescribes certain criteria for an entity to qualify 
as an investment company.  The amendment does not significantly change which entities qualify to use specialized 

accounting for investment companies, but introduces new disclosure requirements that apply to all investment 
companies, and revises the criteria used to measure certain interests in investment companies.  We are not an 

investment company, but we are affiliated with investment companies in our role as an asset manager, and we 

provide accounting and reporting services to investment companies in our role as an asset servicer.  The 

amendment is effective, for State Street, for interim and annual periods beginning on January 1, 2014.  Our 

adoption of the amendment will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements.
In March 2013, the FASB issued an amendment to GAAP that specifies that cumulative foreign currency 
translation recorded in other comprehensive income should be reclassified to earnings when an entity ceases to 
have a controlling financial interest in a subsidiary, or group of assets within a consolidated non-U.S. entity, and the 

sale or transfer results in the complete or substantially complete liquidation of the non-U.S. entity. The amendment 

is effective, for State Street, for interim and annual periods beginning after December 31, 2013, and must be applied 

prospectively.  Our adoption of the amendment will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial 

statements.Note 2. Acquisitions
In October 2012, we completed our acquisition of Goldman Sachs Administration Services, or GSAS, for a total 
purchase price of approximately $550 million, subject to certain adjustments.  We acquired GSAS, a global hedge-

fund service provider with approximately $200 billion of single manager hedge-fund assets under administration in 
locations worldwide, to expand our hedge-fund servicing and administration capabilities and our overall presence in 
non-U.S. markets.  In connection with the acquisition, we recorded goodwill of approximately $290 million, 
approximately half of which we do not expect to be tax deductible, and other intangible assets of approximately 
$257 million, in our consolidated statement of condition.  We did not record the hedge-fund assets in our 

consolidated financial statements.  Results of operations of the acquired GSAS business are included in our 
consolidated financial statements beginning on the acquisition date.Note 3.    Fair Value
Fair-Value Measurements:
We carry trading account assets, investment securities available for sale and various types of derivative 
financial instruments at fair value in our consolidated statement of condition on a recurring basis.  Changes in the 
fair values of these financial assets and liabilities are recorded either as components of our consolidated statement 
of income or as components of AOCI within shareholders' equity in our consolidated statement of condition. 
We measure fair value for the above-described financial assets and liabilities in conformity with GAAP that 
governs the measurement of the fair value of financial instruments.  Management believes that its valuation 
techniques and underlying assumptions used to measure fair value conform to the provisions of GAAP.  We 

categorize the financial assets and liabilities that we carry at fair value based on a prescribed three-level valuation 
hierarchy.  The hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities 
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
138(level 1) and the lowest priority to valuation methods using significant unobservable inputs (level 3).  If the inputs 
used to measure a financial asset or liability cross different levels of the hierarchy, categorization is based on the 

lowest-level input that is most significant to the fair-value measurement. Management's assessment of the 
significance of a particular input to the overall fair-value measurement of a financial asset or liability requires 
judgment, and considers factors specific to that asset or liability.  The three valuation levels are described below. 
Level 1.  Financial assets and liabilities with values based on unadjusted quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in an active market.  Fair value is measured using unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical securities.  Our level-1 financial assets and liabilities primarily include positions in U.S. government securities and 
highly liquid U.S. and non-U.S. government fixed-income securities.  We may carry U.S. government securities in 

our available-for-sale portfolio in connection with our asset-and-liability management activities.  Our level-1 financial 
assets also include active exchange-traded equity securities. Level 2.  Financial assets and liabilities with values based on quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, and inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially 

the full term of the asset or liability.  
Level-2 inputs include the following: Ł Quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; 

Ł Quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in non-active markets; 

Ł Pricing models whose inputs are observable for substantially the full term of the asset or liability; and 

Ł Pricing models whose inputs are derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market information 
through correlation or other means for substantially the full term of the asset or liability. 
Our level-2 financial assets and liabilities primarily include trading account assets and fixed-income investment securities available for sale, as well as various types of foreign exchange and interest-rate derivative instruments. Fair value for our investment securities available for sale categorized in level 2 is measured primarily using information obtained from independent third parties.  This third-party information is subject to review by 

management as part of a validation process, which includes obtaining an understanding of the underlying 
assumptions and the level of market participant information used to support those assumptions.  In addition, 
management compares significant assumptions used by third parties to available market information.  Such 
information may include known trades or, to the extent that trading activity is limited, comparisons to market 

research information pertaining to credit expectations, execution prices and the timing of cash flows, and where 
information is available, back-testing. Derivative instruments categorized in level 2 predominantly represent foreign exchange contracts used in our trading activities, for which fair value is measured using discounted cash-flow techniques, with inputs consisting of 
observable spot and forward points, as well as observable interest-rate curves.  With respect to derivative 
instruments, we evaluate the impact on valuation of the credit risk of our counterparties and our own credit risk.  We 

consider factors such as the likelihood of default by us and our counterparties, our current and potential future net 
exposures and remaining maturities in determining the fair value.  Valuation adjustments associated with derivative 

instruments were not material to those instruments for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 or 2011.
Level 3.  Financial assets and liabilities with values based on prices or valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable in the market and significant to the overall measurement of fair value.  These inputs reflect management's judgment about the assumptions that a market participant would use in pricing the financial 
asset or liability, and are based on the best available information, some of which is internally developed.  The 

following provides a more detailed discussion of our financial assets and liabilities that we may categorize in level 3 
and the related valuation methodology. 
Ł The fair value of our investment securities categorized in level 3 is measured using information obtained 
from third-party sources, typically non-binding broker or dealer quotes, or through the use of internally-
developed pricing models.  Management has evaluated its methodologies used to measure fair value, but 
has considered the level of observable market information to be insufficient to categorize the securities in 

level 2. Ł The fair value of foreign exchange contracts, primarily options, is measured using an option-pricing model.  
Because of a limited number of observable transactions, certain model inputs are not observable, such as 
implied volatility surface, but are derived from observable market information. STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
139Ł The fair value of certain interest-rate caps with long-dated maturities, is measured using a matrix-pricing 
approach. Observable market prices are not available for these derivatives, so extrapolation is necessary to 
value these instruments, since they have a strike and/or maturity outside of the matrix. Our level-3 financial assets and liabilities are similar in structure and profile to our level-1 and level-2 financial instruments, but they trade in less-liquid markets, and the measurement of their fair value is inherently more difficult.  

As of December 31, 2013, on a gross basis, we categorized in level 3 approximately 7% of our financial assets 
carried at fair value on a recurring basis.  As of the same date and on the same basis, the percentage of our 

financial liabilities categorized in level 3 to our financial liabilities carried at fair value on a recurring basis was not 
significant.  We generally determine the fair value of our level-3 financial assets and liabilities using pricing 

information obtained from third-party sources, typically non-binding broker and dealer quotes, and, to a lesser 
extent, using internally-developed pricing models.  The fair value of investment securities categorized in level 3 that 

was measured using non-binding quotes and internally-developed pricing-model inputs composed approximately 
98% and 2%, respectively, of the total fair value of the investment securities categorized in level 3 as of 

December 31, 2013.  The process used to measure the fair value of our level-3 financial assets and liabilities is overseen by a valuation group within Corporate Finance, separate from the business units that carry the assets and liabilities.  This 

function, which develops and manages the valuation process, reports to State Street's Valuation Committee.  The 

Valuation Committee, composed of senior management from separate business units, Enterprise Risk Management 

and Corporate Finance, oversees adherence to State Street's valuation policies.  The valuation group performs validation of the pricing information obtained from third-party sources in order to evaluate reasonableness and consistency with market experience in similar asset classes.  Monthly analyses 
include a review of price changes relative to overall trends, credit analysis and other relevant procedures (discussed 
below).  In addition, prices for level-3 securities carried in our investment portfolio are tested on a sample basis 
based on unexpected pricing movements.  These sample prices are then corroborated through price recalculations, 

when applicable, using available market information, which is obtained separately from the third-party pricing 
source.  The recalculated prices are compared to market-research information pertaining to credit expectations, 

execution prices and the timing of cash flows, and where information is available, back-testing.  If a difference is 

identified and it is determined that there is a significant impact requiring an adjustment, the adjustment is presented 
to the Valuation Committee for review and consideration.
Validation is also performed on fair-value measurements determined using internally-developed pricing 
models.  The pricing models are subject to validation through our Model Assessment Committee, a corporate risk 

oversight committee that provides technical support and input to the Valuation Committee.  This validation process 

incorporates a review of a diverse set of model and trade parameters across a broad range of values in order to 
evaluate the model's suitability for valuation of a particular financial instrument type, as well as the model's accuracy 
in reflecting the characteristics of the related financial asset or liability and its significant risks.  Inputs and 
assumptions, including any price-valuation adjustments, are developed by the business units and separately 
reviewed by the valuation group.  Model valuations are compared to available market information including 
appropriate proxy instruments and other benchmarks to highlight abnormalities for further investigation.Measuring fair value requires the exercise of management judgment.  The level of subjectivity and the degree 
of management judgment required is more significant for financial instruments whose fair value is measured using 
inputs that are not observable.  The areas requiring significant judgment are identified, documented and reported to 

the Valuation Committee as part of the valuation control framework.  We believe that our valuation methods are 

appropriate; however, the use of different methodologies or assumptions, particularly as they apply to level-3 

financial assets and liabilities, could materially affect fair-value measurements as of the reporting date.
The following tables present information with respect to our financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value in our consolidated statement of condition on a recurring basis as of the dates indicated.  No transfers of financial 
assets or liabilities between levels 1 and 2 occurred during 2013 or 2012.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
140Fair-Value Measurements on a Recurring Basisas of December 31, 2013(In millions)Quoted MarketPrices in Active
Markets(Level 1)Pricing Methodswith SignificantObservableMarket Inputs(Level 2)Pricing Methodswith SignificantUnobservableMarket Inputs(Level 3)Impact of Netting(1)Total Net
Carrying Value
in ConsolidatedStatement ofConditionAssets:Trading account assets:U.S. government securities$20$
20Non-U.S. government securities399399Other67$357424
Total trading account assets486357843
Investment securities available for sale:U.S. Treasury and federal agencies:Direct obligationsŠ709709
Mortgage-backed securitiesŠ22,847$71623,563
Asset-backed securities:Student loansŠ14,11942314,542
Credit cardsŠ8,18624
8,210Sub-primeŠ1,203Š
1,203OtherŠ5324,532
5,064Total asset-backed securitiesŠ24,0404,97929,019
Non-U.S. debt securities:Mortgage-backed securitiesŠ10,65437511,029
Asset-backed securitiesŠ4,592798
5,390Government securitiesŠ3,761Š
3,761OtherŠ4,263464
4,727Total non-U.S. debt securitiesŠ23,2701,63724,907
State and political subdivisionsŠ10,2204310,263
Collateralized mortgage obligationsŠ5,107162
5,269Other U.S. debt securitiesŠ4,9728
4,980U.S. equity securitiesŠ34Š
34Non-U.S. equity securitiesŠ1Š1
U.S. money-market mutual fundsŠ422Š422
Non-U.S. money-market mutual fundsŠ7Š7
Total investment securities available for saleŠ91,6297,54599,174
Other assets:Derivative instruments:Foreign exchange contractsŠ11,89219$
(6,442)5,469Interest-rate contractsŠ65Š(59)6
OtherŠ1ŠŠ1
Total derivative instrumentsŠ11,95819
(6,501)5,476Other97ŠŠŠ
97Total assets carried at fair value$583$103,944$7,564$
(6,501)$105,590Liabilities:Accrued expenses and other liabilities:Derivative instruments:Foreign exchange contracts$11,454$17$
(5,458)$6,013Interest-rate contracts331Š(94)237
OtherŠ9Š9
Total derivative instruments11,78526
(5,552)6,259Other$97ŠŠŠ
97Total liabilities carried at fair value$97$11,785$26$
(5,552)$6,356(1)  Represents counterparty netting against level-2 financial assets and liabilities, where a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists between State Street and the counterparty.  Netting also reflects asset and liability reductions of $1.93 billion and $979 million, res
pectively, for cash collateral 
received from and provided to derivative counterparties.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
141 Fair-Value Measurements on a Recurring Basisas of December 31, 2012(In millions)Quoted MarketPrices in Active
Markets(Level 1)Pricing Methodswith SignificantObservableMarket Inputs(Level 2)Pricing Methodswith SignificantUnobservableMarket Inputs(Level 3)Impact of Netting(1)Total Net
Carrying Value
in ConsolidatedStatement ofConditionAssets:Trading account assets:U.S. government securities$20$
20Non-U.S. government securities391391Other71$155226
Total trading account assets482155637
Investment securities available for sale:U.S. Treasury and federal agencies:Direct obligations3838841
Mortgage-backed securitiesŠ31,387$82532,212
Asset-backed securities:Student loansŠ15,83358816,421
Credit cardsŠ9,919679,986Sub-primeŠ1,399Š1,399OtherŠ6833,994
4,677Total asset-backed securitiesŠ27,8344,64932,483
Non-U.S. debt securities:Mortgage-backed securitiesŠ10,85055511,405
Asset-backed securitiesŠ5,6945246,218Government securitiesŠ3,199Š3,199OtherŠ4,1661404,306Total non-U.S. debt securitiesŠ23,9091,21925,128
State and political subdivisionsŠ7,503487,551Collateralized mortgage obligationsŠ4,8371174,954Other U.S. debt securitiesŠ5,28995,298U.S. equity securitiesŠ31Š31Non-U.S. equity securitiesŠ1Š1
U.S. money-market mutual fundsŠ1,062Š1,062Non-U.S. money-market mutual fundsŠ121Š121
Total investment securities available for sale3102,8126,867109,682Other assets:Derivatives instruments:Foreign exchange contractsŠ9,265113$
(4,981)4,397Interest-rate contractsŠ223Š(64)159
Total derivative instrumentsŠ9,488113(5,045)4,556Other662ŠŠ
68Total assets carried at fair value$551$
112,457$6,980$
(5,045)$114,943Liabilities:Accrued expenses and other liabilities:Derivative instruments:Foreign exchange contracts$8,978$106$
(4,052)$5,032Interest-rate contracts345Š(19)326
OtherŠ9Š9
Total derivative instruments9,323115(4,071)5,367Other$66ŠŠŠ
66Total liabilities carried at fair value$66$
9,323$115$
(4,071)$5,433(1)  Represents counterparty netting against level-2 financial assets and liabilities, where a legally enforceable master netting agreement exists between State Street and the counterparty.  Netting also reflects asset and liability reductions of $1.45 billion and $478 million, res
pectively, for cash collateral 
received from and provided to derivative counterparties.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
142The following tables present activity related to our level-3 financial assets and liabilities during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  Transfers into and out of level 3 are reported as of the beginning of the 

period. During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, transfers out of level 3 were mainly related to certain 
asset-backed securities and non-U.S. debt securities, for which fair value was measured using prices for which 
observable market information became available.Fair-Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs Year Ended December 31, 2013 FairValue as ofDecember 31,2012Total Realized andUnrealized Gains (Losses)PurchasesIssuancesSalesSettlements
TransfersintoLevel 3Transfersout ofLevel 3FairValue as ofDecember 31,2013Change inUnrealizedGains(Losses)Related toFinancialInstrumentsHeld as ofDecember 31,2013(In millions)RecordedinRevenueRecordedin OtherComprehensiveIncomeAssets:Investmentsecurities available
for sale:U.S. Treasuryand federal
agencies,
mortgage-
backed
securities$825
$92$(109)$(92)$716
Asset-backedsecurities:Studentloans588
$2$1279$(26)(31)(201)423
Credit cards67
ŠŠŠŠ(43)Š24
Other3,994
5391,721(34)(1,188)(23)4,532
Total asset-backed
securities4,649
55211,800(60)(1,262)(224)4,979
Non-U.S. debtsecurities:Mortgage-backed
securities555
Š(1)33Š(4)(208)375
Asset-backedsecurities524
53531Š(142)$160(283)798
Other140
Š1397Š20Š(94)464
Total non-U.S. debtsecurities1,219
53961Š(126)160(585)1,637
State and politicalsubdivisions48
1(2)ŠŠ(4)ŠŠ43
Collateralizedmortgage
obligations117
1(5)218Š(39)14(144)162
Other U.S. debtsecurities9
Š(1)ŠŠŠŠŠ8
Total investmentsecurities
available for sale6,867
62163,071(60)(1,540)174(1,045)7,545
Other assets:Derivativeinstruments:Derivativeinstruments,
Foreign
exchange
contracts113
103Š20Š(217)ŠŠ19$(2)
Totalderivative
instruments113103Š20Š(217)Š19(2)
Total assets carriedat fair value$6,980
$165$16$3,091Š$(60)$(1,757)$174$(1,045)$7,564$(2)
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
143Fair-Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs Year Ended December 31, 2013 FairValue as ofDecember 31,2012Total Realized andUnrealized (Gains) LossesPurchasesIssuancesSalesSettlements
TransfersintoLevel 3Transfersout ofLevel 3FairValue as ofDecember 31,2013Change inUnrealized(Gains)
LossesRelated toFinancialInstrumentsHeld as ofDecember 31,2013(In millions)RecordedinRevenueRecordedin OtherComprehensiveIncomeLiabilities:Accruedexpenses and
other liabilities:Derivativeinstruments:Foreignexchange
contracts$106
$40$
18$(147)$
17$(1)
Other9ŠŠŠ9Š
Totalderivative
instruments1154018(147)
26(1)Total liabilitiescarried at fair
value$115
$40ŠŠ$
18Š$(147)ŠŠ$
26$(1)
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
144Fair-Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs Year Ended December 31, 2012Fair Value as ofDecember 31,2011Total Realized andUnrealized Gains (Losses)PurchasesIssuancesSalesSettlements
TransfersintoLevel 3Transfersout ofLevel 3FairValue as ofDecember 31,2012Change inUnrealizedGains(Losses)Related toFinancialInstrumentsHeld as ofDecember 31,2012(In millions)RecordedinRevenueRecordedin OtherComprehensiveIncomeAssets:Investmentsecurities
available for
sale:U.S. Treasuryand federal
agencies:Mortgage-backed
securities$1,189$2$(115)$50$(301)$825
Asset-backedsecurities:Studentloans860$215$100(48)Š(341)588
Creditcards916(6)239$(62)(86)21(136)
67Other2,79841691,920(12)(788)12(46)
3,994Total asset-backed
securities3,74949782,259(74)(922)33(523)
4,649Non-U.S. debtsecurities:Mortgage-backed
securities1,457Š5799Š9Š(1,715)555
Asset-backed
securities1,768281,317Š(78)Š(2,493)524
Other71Š(2)539Š1Š(469)140
Total non-U.S.debt securities3,2962112,655Š(68)Š(4,677)
1,219State andpolitical
subdivisions50Š(1)Š(1)ŠŠ
48Collateralizedmortgage
obligations2273693283(45)(451)45(314)117
Other U.S.debt securities2ŠŠŠŠ(2)9Š9
Totalinvestment
securities
available for
sale8,513420935,197(119)(1,559)137(5,815)
6,867Other assets:Derivativeinstruments:Foreignexchange
contracts168(85)Š137Š(107)ŠŠ113$(24)
Interest-rate
contracts10(10)ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠ
Totalderivative
instruments178(95)Š137Š(107)ŠŠ113(24)
Total assetscarried at fair
value$8,691$325$93$5,334Š$(119)$(1,666)$137$(5,815)$
6,980$(24)
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
145Fair-Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs Year Ended December 31, 2012 Fair Value as ofDecember 31,2011Total Realized andUnrealized (Gains) LossesPurchasesIssuancesSalesSettlements
Transfers
intoLevel 3Transfers
out ofLevel 3FairValue as ofDecember 31,2012Change inUnrealized(Gains)
LossesRelated toFinancialInstrumentsHeld as ofDecember 31,2012(In millions)RecordedinRevenueRecordedin OtherComprehensiveIncomeLiabilities:Accruedexpenses and
other liabilities:Derivativeinstruments:Foreignexchange
contracts$161$(93)$133$(95)$106$(27)
Interest-rate
contracts11(11)ŠŠŠŠ
Other9ŠŠŠ9Š
Totalderivative
instruments181(104)133(95)115(27)
Other20ŠŠ(20)Š
Total liabilitiescarried at fair
value$201$(104)ŠŠ$133Š$(115)ŠŠ$115$(27)
The following table presents total realized and unrealized gains and losses for the years indicated that were recorded in revenue for our level-3 financial assets and liabilities:  Years Ended December 31,Total Realized and
Unrealized Gains(Losses) Recordedin RevenueChange inUnrealized Gains(Losses) Related toFinancialInstruments Held                      as of December 31,(In millions)201320122011201320122011
Fee revenue:Trading services$63
$9$(13)
$(1)
$3$(9)
Total fee revenue639(13)
(1)
3(9)
Net interest revenue62420561
ŠŠŠTotal revenue$125
$429$548
$(1)
$3$(9)
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
146The following table presents quantitative information, as of the dates indicated, about the valuation techniques and significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation of our level-3 financial assets and liabilities measured at 
fair value on a recurring basis for which we use internally-developed pricing models.  The significant unobservable 

inputs for our level-3 financial assets and liabilities whose fair value is measured using pricing information from non-
binding broker or dealer quotes are not included in the table, as the specific inputs applied are not provided by the 
broker/dealer. 
  Quantitative Information about Level-3 Fair-Value MeasurementsFair ValueWeighted-Average
(Dollars in millions)As ofDecember 31,2013As ofDecember 31,2012ValuationTechniqueSignificantUnobservableInputAs ofDecember 31,2013As ofDecember 31,2012Significant unobservable inputs readily
available to State Street:Assets:    
Asset-backed securities, student loans$13
$12Discountedcash flowsCredit spread
3.5%6.7%Asset-backed securities, credit cards2467Discountedcash flowsCredit spread
2.07.1Asset-backed securities, other92103Discountedcash flowsCredit spread
1.51.5State and political subdivisions4348Discountedcash flowsCredit spread
1.71.9Derivative instruments, foreign exchange contracts19113Option modelVolatility
11.49.8Total$191
$343
Liabilities:Derivative instruments, foreign exchange contracts$17
$106
Option modelVolatility
11.29.8Derivative instruments, other(1)99Discountedcash flowsParticipantredemptions7.56.7Total$26
$115
(1) Relates to stable value wrap contracts; refer to the sensitivity discussion following the tables presented below, and to note 1
1.The following tables present information with respect to the composition of our level-3 financial assets and liabilities, by availability of significant unobservable inputs, as of the dates indicated:December 31, 2013Significant Unobservable Inputs Readily Available to 
State Street(1)Significant Unobservable Inputs Not Developed by State Street and Not Readily Available
(2)Total Assets and Liabilitieswith SignificantUnobservable Inputs(In millions)Assets:
U.S. Treasury and federal agencies, mortgage-backed securities$Š$716$716
Asset-backed securities, student loans13410423
Asset-backed securities, credit cards24Š24
Asset-backed securities, other924,4404,532
Non-U.S. debt securities, mortgage-backed securitiesŠ375375
Non-U.S. debt securities, asset-backed securitiesŠ798798
Non-U.S. debt securities, otherŠ464464
State and political subdivisions43Š43
Collateralized mortgage obligationsŠ162162
Other U.S.debt securitiesŠ88
Derivative instruments, foreign exchange contracts19Š19
Total$191$7,373$7,564
Liabilities:Derivative instruments, foreign exchange contracts$17
Š$17
Derivative instruments, other9Š9Total$26Š$26
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
147December 31, 2012Significant Unobservable Inputs Readily Available to 
State Street(1)Significant Unobservable Inputs Not Developed by State Street and Not Readily Available
(2)Total Assets and Liabilitieswith SignificantUnobservable Inputs(In millions)Assets:
U.S. Treasury and federal agencies, mortgage-backed securities$Š$825$825

Asset-backed securities, student loans12576588

Asset-backed securities, credit cards67Š67

Asset-backed securities, other1033,8913,994

Non-U.S. debt securities, mortgage-backed securitiesŠ555555

Non-U.S. debt securities, asset-backed securitiesŠ524524

Non-U.S. debt securities, otherŠ140140

State and political subdivisions48Š48

Collateralized mortgage obligationsŠ117117

Other U.S.debt securitiesŠ99

Derivative instruments, foreign exchange contracts113Š113
Total$343$6,637$6,980
Liabilities:Derivative instruments, foreign exchange contracts$106Š$106
Derivative instruments, other9Š9
Total$115Š$115
(1)  Information with respect to these model-priced financial assets and liabilities is provided above in a separate table.(2)  Fair value for these financial assets is measured using non-binding broker or dealer quotes.Internally-developed pricing models used to measure the fair value of our level-3 financial assets and liabilities incorporate discounted cash flow and option modeling techniques.  Use of these techniques requires the 
determination of relevant inputs and assumptions, some of which represent significant unobservable inputs as 
indicated in the preceding table.  Accordingly, changes in these unobservable inputs may have a significant impact 

on fair value.Certain of these unobservable inputs will, in isolation, have a directionally consistent impact on the fair value of the instrument for a given change in that input.  Alternatively, the fair value of the instrument may move in an 

opposite direction for a given change in another input.  Where multiple inputs are used within the valuation 
technique of an asset or liability, a change in one input in a certain direction may be offset by an opposite change in 

another input, resulting in a potentially muted impact on the overall fair value of that particular instrument.  
Additionally, a change in one unobservable input may result in a change to another unobservable input (that is, 

changes in certain inputs are interrelated to one another), which may counteract or magnify the fair-value impact.For recurring level-3 fair-value measurements for which significant unobservable inputs are readily available to State Street as of December 31, 2013, the sensitivity of the fair-value measurement to changes in significant 
unobservable inputs, and a description of any interrelationships between those unobservable inputs, is described 
below; however, we rarely experience a situation in which those unobservable inputs change in isolation:
Ł The significant unobservable input used in the measurement of the fair value of our asset-backed securities 
and municipal securities (state and political subdivisions) is the credit spread.  Significant increases 
(decreases) in the credit spread would result in measurements of significantly lower (higher) fair value. Ł The significant unobservable input used in the measurement of the fair value of our foreign exchange option 
contracts is the implied volatility surface.  A significant increase (decrease) in the implied volatility surface 

would result in measurements of significantly higher (lower) fair value.Ł The significant unobservable input used in the measurement of the fair value of our other derivative 
instruments, specifically stable value wrap contracts, is participant redemptions.  Increased volatility of 
redemptions may result in changes to the measurement of fair value.  Generally, significant increases 

(decreases) in participant redemptions may result in measurements of significantly higher (lower) fair value 
of this liability.
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
148Fair Values of Financial Instruments:
Estimates of fair value for financial instruments not carried at fair value on a recurring basis in our consolidated statement of condition, as defined by GAAP, are generally subjective in nature, and are determined as of a specific 

point in time based on the characteristics of the financial instruments and relevant market information.  Disclosure of 
fair-value estimates is not required by GAAP for certain items, such as lease financing, equity-method investments, 

obligations for pension and other post-retirement plans, premises and equipment, other intangible assets and 
income-tax assets and liabilities.  Accordingly, aggregate fair-value estimates presented do not purport to represent, 

and should not be considered representative of, our underlying ﬁmarketﬂ or franchise value.  In addition, because of 
potential differences in methodologies and assumptions used to estimate fair values, our estimates of fair value 

should not be compared to those of other financial institutions. We use the following methods to estimate the fair values of our financial instruments: 
Ł For financial instruments that have quoted market prices, those quoted prices are used to estimate fair 
value. Ł For financial instruments that have no defined maturity, have a remaining maturity of 180 days or less, or 
reprice frequently to a market rate, we assume that the fair value of these instruments approximates their 
reported value, after taking into consideration any applicable credit risk. Ł For financial instruments for which no quoted market prices are available, fair value is estimated using 
information obtained from independent third parties, or by discounting the expected cash flows using an 
estimated current market interest rate for the financial instrument. The generally short duration of certain of our assets and liabilities results in a significant number of financial instruments for which fair value equals or closely approximates the amount recorded in our consolidated statement 
of condition.  These financial instruments are reported in the following captions in our consolidated statement of 

condition: cash and due from banks; interest-bearing deposits with banks; securities purchased under resale 
agreements; accrued interest and fees receivable; deposits; securities sold under repurchase agreements; federal 
funds purchased; and other short-term borrowings.  In addition, due to the relatively short duration of certain of our net loans (excluding leases), we consider fair value for these loans to approximate their reported value.  The fair value of other types of loans, such as senior 

secured bank loans, purchased receivables and commercial real estate loans, is estimated using information 
obtained from independent third parties or by discounting expected future cash flows using current rates at which 
similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings for the same remaining maturities.  
Commitments to lend have no reported value because their terms are at prevailing market rates. The following tables present the reported amounts and estimated fair values of the financial instruments defined by GAAP, excluding financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value on a recurring basis, as they would 

be categorized within the fair-value hierarchy, as of the dates indicated.
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
149     Fair-Value HierarchyDecember 31, 2013ReportedAmount EstimatedFair ValueQuoted MarketPrices in ActiveMarkets(Level 1)Pricing Methodswith SignificantObservable MarketInputs(Level 2) PricingMethods withSignificantUnobservable Market Inputs(Level 3)(In millions)Financial Assets:    
Cash and due from banks$3,220$3,220$3,220$Š$ŠInterest-bearing deposits with banks64,25764,257
Š64,257ŠSecurities purchased under resale agreements6,2306,230
Š6,230ŠInvestment securities held to maturity17,74017,560
Š17,560ŠNet loans (excluding leases)12,36312,355
Š11,908447
Financial Liabilities:Deposits:
     Noninterest-bearing$65,614$65,614$Š$
65,614$Š     Interest-bearing - U.S.13,39213,392
Š13,392Š     Interest-bearing - non-U.S.103,262103,262Š
103,262ŠSecurities sold under repurchase agreements7,9537,953
Š7,953ŠFederal funds purchased1919Š19Š
Other short-term borrowings3,7803,780
Š3,780ŠLong-term debt9,69910,023
Š9,056967
Fair-Value HierarchyDecember 31, 2012ReportedAmount EstimatedFair ValueQuoted MarketPrices in ActiveMarkets(Level 1)Pricing Methodswith SignificantObservable MarketInputs(Level 2) PricingMethods withSignificantUnobservable Market Inputs(Level 3)(In millions)Financial Assets:Cash and due from banks$2,590$2,590$2,590$Š$ŠInterest-bearing deposits with banks50,76350,763
Š50,763ŠSecurities purchased under resale agreements5,0165,016
Š5,016ŠInvestment securities held to maturity11,37911,661
Š11,661ŠNet loans (excluding leases)11,12111,166
Š10,316850
Financial Liabilities:Deposits:     Noninterest-bearing$
44,445$44,445$Š$
44,445$Š     Interest-bearing - U.S.19,20119,201
Š19,201Š     Interest-bearing - non-U.S.100,535100,535Š
100,535ŠSecurities sold under repurchase agreements8,0068,006
Š8,006ŠFederal funds purchased399
399Š399ŠOther short-term borrowings4,5024,502
Š4,502ŠLong-term debt7,4297,780
Š6,871909
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
150Note 4.    Investment SecuritiesThe following table presents the amortized cost and fair value, and associated unrealized gains and losses, of investment securities as of December 31: 20132012
 AmortizedCostGrossUnrealizedFairValue
AmortizedCostGrossUnrealizedFairValue
(In millions)GainsLossesGainsLosses
Available for sale:U.S. Treasury and federal agencies:Direct obligations$702$9$2$
709$823$19$1$
841Mortgage-backed securities23,744211392
23,56331,64059826
32,212Asset-backed securities:Student loans(1)14,7189226814,54216,829100508
16,421Credit cards8,23021
418,2109,928613
9,986Sub-prime1,291391
1,2031,5574162
1,399Other4,94913823
5,0644,58315561
4,677Total asset-backed securities29,188254423
29,01932,897320734
32,483Non-U.S. debt securities:Mortgage-backed securities10,8082309
11,02911,11931327
11,405Asset-backed securities5,36923
25,3906,180424
6,218Government securities3,7592Š3,7613,1972Š3,199Other4,67959
114,7274,221861
4,306Total non-U.S. debt securities24,61531422
24,90724,71744332
25,128State and political subdivisions10,301160198
10,2637,38423467
7,551Collateralized mortgage obligations5,27570
765,2694,81815115
4,954Other U.S. debt securities4,87613834
4,9805,0722337
5,298U.S. equity securities286Š34
283Š31
Non-U.S. equity securities1ŠŠ11ŠŠ
1U.S. money-market mutual funds422ŠŠ4221,062ŠŠ1,062Non-U.S. money-market mutual funds7ŠŠ7121ŠŠ121Total$99,159$
1,162$1,147$
99,174$108,563$2,001$882$
109,682Held to maturity:U.S. Treasury and federal agencies:Direct obligations$5,041$Š$448$
4,593$5,000$Š$8$
4,992Mortgage-backed securities916Š97
15311Š
164Asset-backed securities:Student loans(1)1,627Š
101,617ŠŠŠŠ
Credit cards7621Š
763ŠŠŠŠ
Other78212
78116ŠŠ16
Total asset-backed securities3,171212
3,16116ŠŠ16
Non-U.S. debt securities:Mortgage-backed securities4,21115048
4,3133,1228568
3,139Asset-backed securities2,20219
Š2,221434161
449Government securities2ŠŠ23ŠŠ
3Other192ŠŠ192167Š2165Total non-U.S. debt securities6,60716948
6,7283,72610171
3,756State and political subdivisions241Š25
742Š76
Collateralized mortgage obligations2,80617626
2,9562,41025912
2,657Total$17,740$354$534$
17,560$11,379$373$91$
11,661(1) Substantially composed of securities guaranteed by the federal government with respect to at least 97% of defaulted principal and    accrued interest on the underlying loans.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
151Aggregate investment securities carried at $46.99 billion and $46.66 billion as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively, were designated as pledged for public and trust deposits, short-term borrowings 

and for other purposes as provided by law.
The following tables present the aggregate fair values of investment securities that have been in a continuous unrealized loss position for less than 12 months, and those that have been in a continuous unrealized loss position 
for 12 months or longer, as of the dates indicated: 
 Less than 12 months12 months or longerTotal
December 31, 2013FairValue
GrossUnrealizedLossesFairValue
GrossUnrealizedLossesFairValue
GrossUnrealizedLosses(In millions)Available for sale:U.S. Treasury and federal agencies:Direct obligations$182$1$
113$1$
295$2Mortgage-backed securities10,5623162,389
7612,951392
Asset-backed securities:Student loans1,930167,2522529,182268
Credit cards3,71430161113,87541Sub-primeŠŠ1,150911,15091Other1,89612439112,33523Total asset-backed securities7,540589,00236516,542423
Non-U.S. debt securities:Mortgage-backed securities8682
25871,1269
Asset-backed securities5511161
5672
Other1,655915021,80511Total non-U.S. debt securities3,07412424103,49822State and political subdivisions3,2421131,268
854,510198
Collateralized mortgage obligations1,58155510212,09176Other U.S. debt securities1,03925589
1,09734Total$27,220$580$13,764$567$40,984$1,147Held to maturity:U.S. Treasury and federal agencies:Direct obligations$4,571$448$Š$Š$
4,571$448Asset-backed securities:Student loans1,35210ŠŠ
1,35210Other2971291
3262
Total asset-backed securities1,64911291
1,67812Non-U.S. mortgage-backed securities8343
878451,71248Collateralized mortgage obligations75918
161892026Total$7,813$480$1,068$54$
8,881$534STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
152 Less than 12 months12 months or longerTotal
December 31, 2012FairValue
GrossUnrealizedLossesFairValue
GrossUnrealizedLossesFairValue
GrossUnrealizedLosses(In millions)Available for sale:U.S. Treasury and federal agencies:Direct obligations$Š$Š$
132$1$
132$1Mortgage-backed securities3,4861886584,35126Asset-backed securities:Student loans625610,24150210,866508
Credit cards8883ŠŠ
8883
Sub-primeŠŠ1,3461621,346162
Other63913989481,62861Total asset-backed securities2,1522212,57671214,728734
Non-U.S. debt securities:Mortgage-backed securities6703453241,12327Asset-backed securities9731533
1,0264
Other5091ŠŠ
5091
Total non-U.S. debt securities2,1525506272,65832State and political subdivisions68591,152581,83767Collateralized mortgage obligations34716211496815Other U.S. debt securities3021336
3357
Total$9,124$56$
15,885$826$25,009$882Held to maturity:U.S. Treasury and federal agencies:Direct obligations$3,792$8$Š$Š$
3,792$8Non-U.S. debt securities:Mortgage-backed securities561956671,01268Asset-backed securitiesŠŠ73173
1OtherŠŠ15621562
Total non-U.S. debt securities5611,185701,24171Collateralized mortgage obligations12011531127312Total$3,968$10$
1,338$81$
5,306$91
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
153The following table presents contractual maturities of debt investment securities as of December 31, 2013:(In millions)Under 1Year
1 to 5Years
6 to 10Years
Over 10Years
Available for sale:U.S. Treasury and federal agencies:Direct obligations$1$36$46$
626Mortgage-backed securities2722,2675,33115,693
Asset-backed securities:Student loans9276,4004,5462,669
Credit cards2,6293,3662,215
ŠSub-prime3320
21,148
Other3041,6031,4381,719
Total asset-backed securities3,89311,3898,2015,536
Non-U.S. debt securities:Mortgage-backed securities8835,7911504,205
Asset-backed securities4324,235592131
Government securities2,7271,034
ŠŠOther1,2012,871655
ŠTotal non-U.S. debt securities5,24313,9311,3974,336
State and political subdivisions6903,1523,8842,537
Collateralized mortgage obligations4211,6331,2401,975
Other U.S. debt securities2993,919729
33Total$10,819$36,327$20,828$30,736Held to maturity:U.S. Treasury and federal agencies:Direct obligations$Š$Š$
5,000$41
Mortgage-backed securitiesŠ221851
Asset-backed securitiesStudent loans181522211,236
Credit cardsŠ278484
ŠOtherŠ4932845
Total asset-backed securities189239891,241
Non-U.S. debt securities:Mortgage-backed securitiesŠ1,1411792,891
Asset-backed securities1401,828234
ŠGovernment securities2ŠŠŠ
Other16525Š
2Total non-U.S. debt securities3072,9944132,893
State and political subdivisions159ŠŠ
Collateralized mortgage obligations1871,0654951,059
Total$527$5,013$6,915$5,285The maturities of asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities and collateralized mortgage obligations are based on expected principal payments.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
154The following table presents gross realized gains and gross realized losses from sales of available-for-sale securities and the components of net impairment losses, included in net gains and losses related to investment 
securities, for the years ended December 31:(In millions)201320122011
Gross realized gains from sales of available-for-sale securities$104
$101$152
Gross realized losses from sales of available-for-sale securities(1)(90)(46)(12)
Gross losses from other-than-temporary impairment(21)(53)(123)
Losses reclassified (from) to other comprehensive income(2)
2150
Net impairment losses recognized in consolidated statement of income(23)(32)(73)
Gains (losses) related to investment securities, net$(9)
$23$67
Impairment associated with expected credit losses$(11)
$(16)$(42)
Impairment associated with management's intent to sell impaired securities prior to recoveryin value(6)
Š(8)
Impairment associated with adverse changes in timing of expected future cash flows(6)
(16)(23)
Net impairment losses recognized in consolidated statement of income$(23)
$(32)$(73)
(1) Amount for the year ended December 31, 2012 represented a pre-tax loss from the sale of all of our Greek investment securities, which had an aggregate carrying value of approximately $91 million.The following table presents activity with respect to net impairment losses for the years ended December 31:(In millions)201320122011
Beginning balance$124
$113$63
Plus losses for which other-than-temporary impairment was not previously recognized14410
Plus losses for which other-than-temporary impairment was previously recognized92863
Less previously recognized losses related to securities sold or matured(25)(21)(13)
Less losses related to securities intended or required to be soldŠŠ(10)
Ending balance$122
$124$113
Impairment: We conduct periodic reviews of individual securities to assess whether other-than-temporary impairment 
exists. Impairment exists when the current fair value of an individual security is below its amortized cost basis.  
When the decline in the security's fair value is deemed to be other than temporary, the loss is recorded in our 

consolidated statement of income.  In addition, for debt securities available for sale and held to maturity, impairment 

is recorded in our consolidated statement of income when management intends to sell (or may be required to sell) 
the securities before they recover in value, or when management expects the present value of cash flows expected 
to be collected from the securities to be less than the amortized cost of the impaired security (a credit loss).  Our review of impaired securities generally includes: Ł the identification and evaluation of securities that have indications of potential other-than-temporary 
impairment, such as issuer-specific concerns, including deteriorating financial condition or bankruptcy; Ł the analysis of expected future cash flows of securities, based on quantitative and qualitative factors; 

Ł the analysis of the collectability of those future cash flows, including information about past events, current 
conditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts; Ł the analysis of the underlying collateral for mortgage- and asset-backed securities; 
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
155Ł the analysis of individual impaired securities, including consideration of the length of time the security has 
been in an unrealized loss position, the anticipated recovery period, and the magnitude of the overall price 
decline; Ł discussion and evaluation of factors or triggers that could cause individual securities to be deemed other-
than- temporarily impaired and those that would not support other-than-temporary impairment; and Ł documentation of the results of these analyses.
Factors considered in determining whether impairment is other than temporary include: Ł certain macroeconomic drivers;

Ł certain industry-specific drivers;

Ł the length of time the security has been impaired; 

Ł the severity of the impairment; 

Ł the cause of the impairment and the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer; 

Ł activity in the market with respect to the issuer's securities, which may indicate adverse credit conditions; 
and Ł our intention not to sell, and the likelihood that we will not be required to sell, the security for a period of 
time sufficient to allow for its recovery in value. 
Substantially all of our investment securities portfolio is composed of debt securities.  A critical component of 
our assessment of other-than-temporary impairment of these debt securities is the identification of credit-impaired 
securities for which management does not expect to receive cash flows sufficient to recover the entire amortized 

cost basis of the security.
Debt securities that are not deemed to be credit-impaired are subject to additional management analysis to assess whether management intends to sell, or, more likely than not, would be required to sell, the security before 

the expected recovery to its amortized cost basis. The following describes our process for the identification and assessment of other-than-temporary impairment in security types with the most significant gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2013.U.S. Agency Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities
Our portfolio of U.S. agency residential mortgage-backed securities receives the implicit or explicit backing of the U.S. government in conjunction with specified financial support of the U.S. Treasury.  We recorded no other-

than-temporary impairment on these securities in the years ended December 31, 2013 or 2012.  The unrealized 

losses on these securities as of December 31, 2013 were primarily attributable to fluctuations in interest rates in 
2013.Asset-Backed Securities - Student LoansAsset-backed securities collateralized by student loans are primarily composed of securities collateralized by Federal Family Education Loan Program, or FFELP, loans. FFELP loans benefit from a federal government 

guarantee of at least 97% of defaulted principal and accrued interest, with additional credit support provided in the 
form of over-collateralization, subordination and excess spread, which collectively total in excess of 100%.  
Accordingly, the vast majority of FFELP loan-backed securities are protected from traditional consumer credit risk.  
We recorded no other-than-temporary impairment on these securities in the years ended December 31, 2013 
or 2012.  The gross unrealized losses in our FFELP loan-backed securities portfolio as of December 31, 2013 were 

primarily attributable to lower liquidity and the lower spreads on these securities relative to those associated with 
more current issuances.  Our assessment of other-than-temporary impairment of these securities considers, among 
many other factors, the strength of the U.S. government guarantee, the performance of the underlying collateral, 
and the remaining average term of the FFELP loan-backed securities portfolio, which was approximately 4.9 years 

as of December 31, 2013.  Our total exposure to private student loan-backed securities was less than $900 million as of December 31, 2013.  Our assessment of other-than-temporary impairment of private student loan-backed securities considers, 
among other factors, the impact of high unemployment rates on the collateral performance of private student loans.  STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
156We recorded no other-than-temporary impairment on these securities in the years ended December 31, 2013 or 

2012.    Non-U.S. Mortgage- and Asset-Backed Securities
Non-U.S. mortgage- and asset-backed securities are primarily composed of U.K., Australian and Dutch 
securities collateralized by residential mortgages and German securities collateralized by automobile loans.  Our 
assessment of impairment with respect to these securities considers the location of the underlying collateral, 
collateral enhancement and structural features, expected credit losses under base-case and stressed conditions 
and the macroeconomic outlook for the country in which the collateral is located, including housing prices and 
unemployment.  Where appropriate, any potential loss after consideration of the above-referenced factors is further 
evaluated to determine whether any other-than-temporary impairment exists.  In the year ended December 31, 2013, we recorded other-than-temporary impairment of $12 million on certain of our non-U.S. mortgage-backed securities in our consolidated statement of income, of which $6 million was 
associated with management's intent to sell an impaired security prior to its recovery in value, and $6 million 
resulted from adverse changes in the timing of expected future cash flows from certain securities.  In the year ended December 31, 2012, we recorded other-than-temporary impairment of $22 million, substantially related to non-U.S. mortgage-backed securities, of which $6 million was associated with expected 
credit losses, and $16 million resulted from adverse changes in the timing of expected future cash flows from the 
securities.  Our aggregate exposure to Spain, Italy, Ireland and Portugal with respect to mortgage- and asset-backed 
securities totaled approximately $574 million as of December 31, 2013, composed of $271 million in Spain, $105 
million in Italy, $120 million in Ireland and $78 million in Portugal.  We had no direct sovereign debt exposure to any 

of these countries as of that date.  As of December 31, 2013, these mortgage- and asset-backed securities had an 

aggregate pre-tax net unrealized gain of approximately $69 million, composed of gross unrealized gains of $84 
million and gross unrealized losses of $15 million.  Our assessment of other-than-temporary impairment of these securities takes into account government intervention in the corresponding mortgage markets and assumes a negative baseline macroeconomic environment 
for this region, due to a combination of slower economic growth and continued government austerity measures.  
Our baseline view assumes a recessionary period characterized by high unemployment and by additional housing 
price declines of between 12% and 19% across these four countries.  Our evaluation of other-than-temporary 
impairment in our base case does not assume a disorderly sovereign-debt restructuring or a break-up of the 
Eurozone.  In addition, stress testing and sensitivity analysis is performed in order to understand the impact of more 
severe assumptions on potential other-than-temporary impairment. State and Political Subdivisions and Other U.S. Debt Securities Our municipal securities portfolio primarily includes securities issued by U.S. states and their municipalities.  A 
portion of this portfolio is held in connection with our tax-exempt investment program, more fully described in note 
12.  Our portfolio of other U.S. debt securities is primarily composed of securities issued by U.S. corporations.  The 

gross unrealized losses in each portfolio as of December 31, 2013 were primarily attributable to fluctuations in 
interest rates in 2013.  Our assessment of other-than-temporary impairment of these portfolios considers, among other factors, adverse conditions specifically related to the industry, geographic area or financial condition of the issuer; the 

structure of the security, including collateral, if any, and payment schedule; rating agency changes to the security's 

credit rating; the volatility of the fair value changes; and our intent and ability to hold the security until its recovery in 
value.  If the impairment of the security is credit-related, we estimate the future cash flows from the security, tailored 

to the security and considering the above-described factors, and any resulting impairment deemed to be other than 
temporary is recorded in our consolidated statement of income.  We recorded no other-than-temporary impairment 

on these securities in the years ended December 31, 2013 or 2012.U.S. Non-Agency Residential Mortgage-Backed SecuritiesFor U.S. non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities, we assess other-than-temporary impairment using cash-flow models, tailored for each security, that estimate the future cash flows from the underlying 

mortgages, using the security-specific collateral and transaction structure.  Estimates of future cash flows are 
subject to management judgment.  The future cash flows and performance of our portfolio of U.S. non-agency 
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
157residential mortgage-backed securities are a function of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the 
condition of the U.S. economy, the condition of the U.S. residential mortgage markets, and the level of loan defaults, 

prepayments and loss severities.  Management's estimates of future losses for each security also consider the 
underwriting and historical performance of each specific security, the underlying collateral type, vintage, borrower 

profile, third-party guarantees, current levels of subordination, geography and other factors. We recorded no other-than-temporary impairment on these securities in the year ended December 31, 2013.  
We recorded other-than-temporary impairment of $10 million on these securities in our consolidated statement of 

income in the year ended December 31, 2012, all associated with expected credit losses.U.S. Non-Agency Commercial Mortgage-Backed SecuritiesWith respect to our portfolio of U.S. non-agency commercial mortgage-backed securities, other-than-temporary impairment is assessed by considering a number of factors, including, but not limited to, the condition of 
the U.S. economy and the condition of the U.S. commercial real estate market, as well as capitalization rates.  
Management estimates of future losses for each security also consider the underlying collateral type, property 
location, vintage, debt-service coverage ratios, expected property income, servicer advances and estimated 
property values, as well as current levels of subordination. We recorded $11 million of other-than-temporary 

impairment on these securities in our consolidated statement of income in the year ended December 31, 2013, all 
associated with expected credit losses.  We recorded no other-than-temporary impairment on these securities in the 

year ended December 31, 2012.*****The estimates, assumptions and other risk factors utilized in our assessment of impairment as described above are used by management to identify securities which are subject to further analysis of potential credit losses.  
Additional analyses are performed using more stressful assumptions to further evaluate the sensitivity of losses 
relative to the above-described factors. However, since the assumptions are based on the unique characteristics of 

each security, management uses a range of estimates for prepayment speeds, default, and loss severity forecasts 

that reflect the collateral profile of the securities within each asset class.  In addition, in measuring expected credit 
losses, the individual characteristics of each security are examined to determine whether any additional factors 
would increase or mitigate the expected loss.  Once losses are determined, the timing of the loss will also affect the 

ultimate other-than-temporary impairment, since the loss is ultimately subject to a discount commensurate with the 
purchase yield of the security.  
In the aggregate, we recorded other-than-temporary impairment of $23 million and $32 million in the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, as summarized below:
Year ended December 31, 2013:

Ł $11 million (U.S. non-agency commercial mortgage-backed securities) was associated with expected credit 
losses;Ł $6 million (non-U.S. mortgage-backed securities) resulted from management's intent to sell an impaired 
security prior to its recovery in value; andŁ $6 million (non-U.S. mortgage-backed securities) resulted from adverse changes in the timing of expected 
future cash flows from certain of the securities.Year ended December 31, 2012:

Ł $16 million ($10 million on U.S. non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities and $6 million on non-
U.S. mortgage-backed securities) was associated with expected credit losses; and Ł $16 million (non-U.S. mortgage-backed securities) resulted from adverse changes in the timing of expected 
future cash flows from certain of the securities.  After a review of the investment portfolio, taking into consideration current economic conditions, adverse situations that might affect our ability to fully collect principal and interest, the timing of future payments, the credit 

quality and performance of the collateral underlying mortgage- and asset-backed securities and other relevant 
factors, and excluding other-than-temporary impairment recorded in the year ended December 31, 2013, 
management considers the aggregate decline in fair value of the investment securities portfolio and the resulting 
gross pre-tax unrealized losses of $1.68 billion as of December 31, 2013, related to 2,555 securities, to be 
temporary, and not the result of any material changes in the credit characteristics of the securities.
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
158Note 5.    Loans and LeasesThe following table presents our recorded investment in loans and leases, by segment and class, as of December 
31: (In millions)20132012
Institutional:Investment funds:U.S.$8,695
$8,376
Non-U.S.1,718829Commercial and financial:U.S.1,372613Non-U.S.154520Purchased receivables:U.S.217276Non-U.S.26118Lease financing:U.S.339380Non-U.S.756784Total institutional13,27711,896Commercial real estate:U.S.209411Total loans and leases13,48612,307Allowance for loan losses(28)(22)Loans and leases, net of allowance for loan losses$13,458
$12,285
The components of our net investment in leveraged lease financing, included in the institutional segment in the preceding table, were as follows as of December 31: (In millions)20132012
Net rental income receivable$1,404
$1,519
Estimated residual values110110Unearned income(419)(465)Investment in leveraged lease financing1,0951,164Less related deferred income tax liabilities(359)(370)Net investment in leveraged lease financing$736
$794
We segregate our loans and leases into two segments: institutional and commercial real estate, or CRE. 
Within these two segments, we further segregate the receivables into classes based on their risk characteristics, 
their initial measurement attributes and the methods we use to monitor and assess credit risk.The institutional segment is composed of the following classes: investment funds, commercial and financial, purchased receivables and lease financing.  The investment funds class includes lending to mutual and other 

collective investment funds and short-duration advances to these clients in order to provide liquidity in support of 
their transaction flows associated with securities settlement activities.  The commercial-and-financial class includes 

lending to corporate borrowers, including broker/dealers, as well as purchased loans composed of senior secured 
bank loans.  These senior secured bank loans, which are more fully described below, resulted from our participation 

in loan syndications in the non-investment-grade lending market beginning in 2013.  The purchased receivables 

class represents undivided interests in securitized pools of underlying third-party receivables added in connection 
with the commercial paper conduit consolidation in 2009. The lease financing class includes our investment in 

leveraged lease financing.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
159Aggregate short-duration advances to our clients included in the institutional segment were $2.45 billion and 
$3.30 billion as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively. 
The commercial-and-financial class in the institutional segment presented in the table above included approximately $724 million of senior secured bank loans as of December 31, 2013.  We had no investment in senior 

secured bank loans as of December 31, 2012.  These commercial-and-financial loans are included in the 

ﬁspeculativeﬂ category as of December 31, 2013 in the credit-quality-indicator table presented below.   
Senior secured bank loans present more significant exposure to potential credit losses.  However, we seek to 
mitigate such exposure, in part through the limitation of our investment to larger, more liquid credits underwritten by 

major global financial institutions, the application of our internal credit analysis process to each potential investment, 
and diversification by counterparty and industry segment.  As of December 31, 2013, our allowance for loan losses 

included approximately $6 million related to these commercial-and-financial loans.  The CRE segment is composed of the loans acquired in 2008 pursuant to indemnified repurchase agreements with an affiliate of Lehman as a result of the Lehman Brothers bankruptcy. These loans, which are primarily 

collateralized by direct and indirect interests in commercial real estate, were recorded at their then-current fair 
value, based on management™s expectations with respect to future cash flows from the loans using appropriate 

market discount rates as of the date of acquisition. These cash flow estimates are updated quarterly to reflect 

changes in management™s expectations, which consider market conditions and other factors. 
The following tables present our recorded investment in each class of loans and leases by credit quality indicator as of the dates indicated: InstitutionalCommercial Real Estate
 December 31, 2013InvestmentFundsCommercialandFinancialPurchasedReceivablesLeaseFinancingPropertyDevelopmentOther
Total
Loans andLeases(In millions)Investment grade(1)$10,282$740$243$
1,068$Š$29$12,362
Speculative(2)131770Š27180Š
1,108Special mention(3)Š16ŠŠŠŠ16
Total$10,413$1,526$243$
1,095$180$29$13,486
 InstitutionalCommercial Real Estate
 December 31, 2012InvestmentFundsCommercialandFinancialPurchasedReceivablesLeaseFinancingPropertyDevelopmentOther
Total
Loans andLeases(In millions)Investment grade(1)$8,937$1,041$394$
1,137$Š$29$11,538
Speculative(2)26892Š273775769
Total$9,205$1,133$394$
1,164$377$34$12,307
 (1) Investment-grade loans and leases consist of counterparties with strong credit quality and low expected credit risk and probability of default. Ratings apply to counterparties with a strong capacity to support the timely repayment of any financial commitment.(2) Speculative loans and leases consist of counterparties that face ongoing uncertainties or exposure to business, financial, or economic downturns. However, these counterparties may have financial flexibility or access to financial alternatives, which allow for fi
nancial commitments to be met.(3) Special mention loans and leases consist of counterparties with potential weaknesses that, if uncorrected, may result in deterioration of repayment prospects.Loans and leases are categorized in the rating categories presented in the table above that align with our internal risk-rating framework.  Management considers the ratings to be current as of December 31, 2013.  We use 

an internal risk-rating system to assess our risk of credit loss for each loan or lease.  This risk-rating process 

incorporates the use of risk-rating tools in conjunction with management judgment.  Qualitative and quantitative 
inputs are captured in a systematic manner, and following a formal review and approval process, an internal credit 

rating based on our credit scale is assigned. In assessing the risk rating assigned to each individual loan or lease, among the factors considered are the borrower's debt capacity, collateral coverage, payment history and delinquency experience, financial flexibility and 

earnings strength, the expected amounts and sources of repayment, the level and nature of contingencies, if any, 

and the industry and geography in which the borrower operates.  These factors are based on an evaluation of 
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
160historical and current information, and involve subjective assessment and interpretation.  Credit counterparties are 
evaluated and risk-rated on an individual basis at least annually. 
The following table presents our recorded investment in loans and leases, disaggregated based on our impairment methodology, as of December 31:
20132012
(In millions)Institutional
CommercialReal EstateTotal Loansand LeasesInstitutional
CommercialReal EstateTotal Loansand LeasesLoans and leases:Individually evaluated for impairment$26$180$206
$11$411$422
Collectively evaluated for impairment(1)13,2512913,280
11,885Š11,885
Total$13,277$209$13,486
$11,896$411$12,307
(1)  As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, all of the allowance for loan losses of $28 million and $22 million, respectively, related to institutional 
loans collectively evaluated for impairment.The following tables present information related to our recorded investment in impaired loans and leases as of and for the years ended December 31:20132012
(In millions)RecordedInvestmentUnpaidPrincipalBalanceRelated Allowance(1)RecordedInvestmentUnpaidPrincipalBalanceRelated Allowance(1)With no related allowance recorded:CREŠproperty development$130$
143$Š$197$224$ŠCREŠproperty developmentŠacquired credit-impairedŠ34Š
Š34Š
CREŠotherŠacquired credit-impairedŠ21Š
Š64Š
Total CRE$130$
198$Š$197$322$Š(1) As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, all of the allowance for loan losses of $28 million and $22 million, respectively, related to loans that were 
not impaired.Average RecordedInvestmentInterest RevenueRecognizedYears Ended December 31,2013201220132012
(In millions)With no related allowance recorded:CREŠproperty development$148
$198
$19
$16
CREŠotherŠacquired credit-impairedŠ13ŠŠTotal CRE$148
$211
$19
$16
As of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, we held an aggregate of approximately $130 million and $197 million, respectively, of CRE loans, presented in the foregoing impaired loans and leases table, which were 

modified in troubled debt restructurings.  We recognized no impairment loss as a result of restructuring the loans, as 

the discounted cash flows of the modified loans exceeded the carrying amount of the original loans as of the 
modification date.  In the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, no loans were modified in troubled debt 
restructurings.As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, no institutional loans or leases and no CRE loans were 90 days or more contractually past due. We generally place loans on non-accrual status once principal or interest payments are 60 days contractually 
past due, or earlier if management determines that full collection is not probable.  Loans 60 days past due, but 
considered both well-secured and in the process of collection, may be excluded from non-accrual status. For loans 
placed on non-accrual status, revenue recognition is discontinued.  As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, none of the 

aforementioned CRE loans was on non-accrual status. STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
161The following table presents activity in the allowance for loan losses for the periods indicated: Years Ended December 31, 201320122011
(In millions)Institutional
CommercialReal EstateTotal Loansand LeasesTotal Loansand LeasesTotal Loansand LeasesAllowance for loan losses:Beginning balance$22$Š$22
$22$100
Charge-offsŠŠŠ
Š(78)Provisions6Š6
(3)ŠRecoveriesŠŠŠ
3ŠEnding balance$28$Š$28
$22$22
The provision recorded in 2013, which was related to the institutional loans segment, resulted from our exposure to non-investment-grade borrowers composed of senior secured bank loans, more fully described above, 
which were purchased in connection with our participation in loan syndications in the non-investment-grade lending 
market beginning in 2013.  Loans and leases are reviewed on a regular basis, and any provisions for loan losses that are recorded reflect management's estimate of the amount necessary to maintain the allowance for loan losses at a level considered 
appropriate to absorb estimated incurred losses in the loan-and-lease portfolio. Note 6.    Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
The following table presents changes in the carrying amount of goodwill during the years ended December 31: 20132012
(In millions)InvestmentServicingInvestmentManagementTotal
InvestmentServicingInvestmentManagementTotal
Beginning balance$5,941$36$5,977
$5,610$35$5,645
Acquisitions(1)ŠŠŠ
290Š290
Divestitures and other reductions(10)Š(10)
ŠŠŠ
Foreign currency translation, net68169
41142
Ending balance$5,999$37$6,036
$5,941$36$5,977
(1) Amount for 2012 represented the acquisition of GSAS; refer to note 2. STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
162The following table presents changes in the net carrying amount of other intangible assets during the years ended December 31: 20132012
(In millions)InvestmentServicingInvestmentManagementTotalInvestmentServicingInvestmentManagementTotalBeginning balance$2,492$47$2,539
$2,408$51$2,459
Acquisitions(1)ŠŠŠ
257Š257
Divestitures(5)Š(5)
ŠŠŠ
Amortization(205)(9)(214)
(193)(5)(198)
Foreign currency translation, net39140
20121
Ending balance$2,321$39$2,360
$2,492$47$2,539
(1) Amount for 2012 represented the acquisition of GSAS; refer to note 2.The following table presents the gross carrying amount, accumulated amortization and net carrying amount of other intangible assets by type as of December 31: 20132012
(In millions)GrossCarryingAmountAccumulatedAmortizationNetCarryingAmountGrossCarryingAmountAccumulatedAmortizationNetCarryingAmountClient relationships$2,706$(975)$1,731
$2,653$(755)$1,898
Core deposits717(191)526
706(192)514
Other234(131)103
244(117)127
Total$3,657$(1,297)$2,360
$3,603$(1,064)$2,539
Amortization expense related to other intangible assets was $214 million, $198 million and $200 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  Expected future amortization expense for other 

intangible assets recorded as of December 31, 2013 is $218 million for 2014, $213 million for 2015, $208 million for 
2016, $201 million for 2017 and $174 million for 2018.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
163Note 7.    Other Assets
The following table presents the components of other assets as of December 31:(In millions)20132012
Collateral deposits, net$13,706
$7,649
Unrealized gains on derivative financial instruments, net5,4764,556Bank-owned life insurance(1)2,3432,000Investments in joint ventures and other unconsolidated entities1,6441,405Accounts receivable950511Income taxes receivable337252Prepaid expenses286267Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance(2)263353Receivable for securities settlement19533Deposits with clearing organizations177174Other(3)613816Total$25,990
$18,016
(1) Represented the cash surrender values of a bankruptcy-remote, separate-account policy, and a general-account policy, both compo
sed of aggregate life insurance coverage purchased by State Street Bank on certain of its employees, where State Street Bank is the sole beneficiary.  The separate account mainly included cash and highly-rated investment securities carried at fair value.     
(2) Deferred tax assets and liabilities recorded in our consolidated statement of condition are netted within the same tax jurisdiction.  Gross deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented in note 23. (3) Included other real estate owned of approximately $59 million and $65 million as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively.
Note 8. Deposits
As of December 31, 2013, we had $2.02 billion of time deposits outstanding, all of which were non-U.S. and all of which are scheduled to mature in 2014. As of December 31, 2012, we had $16.53 billion of time deposits 

outstanding, of which $2.82 billion were non-U.S.  As of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, substantially 

all U.S. and non-U.S. time deposits were in amounts of $100,000 or more. Note 9. Short-Term Borrowings
Our short-term borrowings include securities sold under repurchase agreements, federal funds purchased and other short-term borrowings; other short-term borrowings include borrowings associated with our tax-exempt 
investment program, more fully described in note 12, and commercial paper issued in connection with our corporate 
program, under which we can issue up to $3 billion of commercial paper with original maturities of up to 270 days 
from the date of issuance.  Collectively, short-term borrowings had weighted-average interest rates of 0.48% and 

0.55% for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
164The following tables present information with respect to the amounts outstanding and weighted-average interest rates of the primary components of our short-term borrowings as of and for the years ended December 31: Securities Sold UnderRepurchase AgreementsFederal Funds Purchased
(Dollars in millions)201320122011201320122011
Balance as of December 31$7,953
$8,006$8,572
$19
$399$656
Maximum outstanding as of any month-end11,5389,3069,853
5701,1458,259
Average outstanding during the year8,4367,6979,040
297784845
Weighted-average interest rate as of year-end.003%.06%.04%
.13%.13%.05%
Weighted-average interest rate for the year.01.01.11
.02.09.05
 Tax-Exempt
Investment ProgramCorporate Commercial PaperProgram(Dollars in millions)201320122011201320122011
Balance as of December 31$1,948
$2,148$2,294
$1,819
$2,318$2,384
Maximum outstanding as of any month-end2,1352,2742,473
2,5352,5032,825
Average outstanding during the year2,0302,2142,404
1,6322,3822,449
Weighted-average interest rate as of year-end.09%.17%.18%
.14%.22%.22%
Weighted-average interest rate for the year.13.21.26
.18.23.23
The following table presents the components of securities sold under repurchase agreements by underlying collateral as of December 31, 2013:(In millions) Collateralized by securities purchased under resale agreements$1,454
Collateralized by investment securities6,499Total$7,953
Obligations to repurchase securities sold are recorded as a liability in our consolidated statement of condition. U.S. government securities with a fair value of $6.68 billion underlying the repurchase agreements remained in our 
investment securities portfolio as of December 31, 2013.  The following table presents information about these U.S. 

government securities and the related repurchase agreements, including accrued interest, as of December 31, 
2013.  The table excludes repurchase agreements collateralized by securities purchased under resale agreements.
  U.S. GovernmentSecurities SoldRepurchaseAgreements(Dollars in millions)AmortizedCostFair ValueAmortizedCostRateOvernight maturity$7,097$6,677$6,499.004%
We have entered into an agreement with a clearing organization that enables us to net all securities 
purchased under resale agreements and sold under repurchase agreements with counterparties that are also 
members of this organization. As a result of this netting, the average balances of securities purchased under resale 

agreements and securities sold under repurchase agreements were each reduced by $28.25 billion for 2013 and by 

$21.29 billion for 2012.State Street Bank currently maintains a line of credit of CAD $800 million, or approximately $753 million as of December 31, 2013, to support its Canadian securities processing operations. The line of credit has no stated 

termination date and is cancelable by either party with prior notice. As of December 31, 2013, there was no balance 

outstanding on this line of credit.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
165Note 10.    Long-Term Debt
As of December 31,20132012
(In millions)Statutory business trusts:Floating-rate subordinated notes due to State Street Capital Trust IV in 2037$800
$800
Floating-rate subordinated notes due to State Street Capital Trust I in 2028155155Parent company and non-banking subsidiary issuances:2.875% notes due 20161,0101,0143.70% notes due in 2023(1)974Š3.10% subordinated notes due 2023(1)918ŠLong-term capital leases7887064.375% notes due 20217277804.956% junior subordinated debentures due 20185375504.30% notes due 20145025071.35% notes due 2018(1)487Š5.375% notes due 2017450450Floating-rate notes due 20142502507.35% notes due 2026150150State Street Bank issuances:Floating-rate extendible notes due 20169001,0005.25% subordinated notes due 20184424535.30% subordinated notes due 2016409414Floating-rate subordinated notes due 2015200200Total long-term debt$9,699
$7,429
(1) We have entered into interest-rate swap agreements, recorded as fair value hedges, to modify our interest expense on these sen
ior and subordinated notes from a fixed rate to a floating rate.  As of December 31, 2013, we recorded a decrease of $35 million in
 the carrying value of long-term debt associated with these fair value hedges.  As of December 31, 2012, we recorded an increase of 
$174 million in the carrying value of long-term debt associated with fair value hedges. Refer to note 16 for additional information about fair value hedges.We maintain an effective universal shelf registration that allows for the offering and sale of debt securities, 
capital securities, common stock, depositary shares and preferred stock, and warrants to purchase such securities, 
including any shares into which the preferred stock and depositary shares may be convertible, or any combination 
thereof.As of December 31, 2013, State Street Bank had Board authority to issue unsecured senior debt securities from time to time, provided that the aggregate principal amount of such unsecured senior debt outstanding at any 
one time does not exceed $5 billion.  As of December 31, 2013, $4.1 billion was available for issuance pursuant to 

this authority.  As of December 31, 2013, State Street Bank had Board authority to issue up to $1.5 billion of 

subordinated debt, incremental to subordinated debt outstanding as of the same date.  As of December 31, 2013, 

$500 million was available for issuance pursuant to this authority. 
Statutory Business Trusts:
As of December 31, 2013, we had 2 statutory business trusts, State Street Capital Trusts I and IV, which as of 
December 31, 2013 had collectively issued $955 million of trust preferred capital securities. Proceeds received by 
each of the trusts from their capitalization and from their capital securities issuances are invested in junior 
subordinated debentures issued by the parent company. The junior subordinated debentures are the sole assets of 

Capital Trusts I and IV. Each of the trusts is wholly-owned by us; however, in conformity with GAAP, we do not 

record the trusts in our consolidated financial statements.Payments made by the trusts to holders of the capital securities are dependent on our payments made to the trusts on the junior subordinated debentures. Our fulfillment of these commitments has the effect of providing a full, 
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
166irrevocable and unconditional guarantee of the trusts™ obligations under the capital securities. While the capital 

securities issued by the trusts are not recorded in our consolidated statement of condition, the junior subordinated 
debentures qualify for inclusion in tier 1 regulatory capital under current federal regulatory capital guidelines. 
Information about restrictions on our ability to obtain funds from our subsidiary banks is provided in note 15.Interest paid by the parent company on the debentures is recorded in interest expense. Distributions to holders of the capital securities by the trusts are payable from interest payments received on the debentures and are due 
quarterly by State Street Capital Trusts I and IV, subject to deferral for up to five years under certain conditions. The 

capital securities are subject to mandatory redemption in whole at the stated maturity upon repayment of the 
debentures, with an option by us to redeem the debentures at any time.  Such optional redemption is subject to 
federal regulatory approval.Parent Company and Non-Banking Subsidiary Issuances:Interest on the 2.875% senior notes and the 4.375% senior notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 7 and September 7 of each year.  
As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, long-term capital leases included $363 million and $387 million, respectively, related to our One Lincoln Street headquarters building and related underground parking garage; $267 

million and $269 million, respectively, related to an office building in the U.K.; and $158 million and $50 million, 

respectively, related to obligations associated with construction of a new building and other premises and 

equipment.  Refer to note 20 for additional information.In November 2013, we issued $1.0 billion of 3.70% senior notes due November 20, 2023.  Interest on the senior notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on May 20 and November 20 of each year, beginning on May 20, 

2014.In May 2013, we issued $1.50 billion of senior and subordinated debt, composed of $500 million of 1.35% senior notes due May 15, 2018 and $1.0 billion of 3.10% subordinated notes due May 15, 2023.  Interest on both 
the 1.35% senior notes and the 3.10% subordinated notes is payable semi-annually in arrears on May 15 and 
November 15 of each year, beginning on November 15, 2013.  The 3.10% subordinated notes qualify for inclusion 

in tier 2 regulatory capital under current federal regulatory capital guidelines.Interest on the 4.956% junior subordinated debentures is payable semi-annually in arrears on March 15 and September 15 of each year.  The debentures mature on March 15, 2018, and we do not have the right to redeem 

the debentures prior to maturity other than upon the occurrence of specified events. Such redemption is subject to 
federal regulatory approval.  The junior subordinated debentures qualify for inclusion in tier 2 regulatory capital 

under current federal regulatory capital guidelines.   The 4.30% senior notes mature on May 30, 2014, with interest payable semi-annually in arrears on May 30 and November 30 of each year. We cannot redeem the notes prior to maturity. We completed the issuance primarily 

in connection with our intention to redeem the U.S. Treasury's preferred equity investment received in October 2008 

under the TARP Capital Purchase Program. 
The 5.375% senior notes mature on April 30, 2017, with interest payable semi-annually in arrears on April 30 
and October 30 of each year. 
The floating-rate notes mature on March 7, 2014, with interest payable quarterly in arrears on March 7, June 7, September 7, and December 7 of each year.  
The 7.35% senior notes mature on June 15, 2026, with interest payable semi-annually in arrears on June 15 and December 15 of each year. We may not redeem the notes prior to their maturity.
State Street Bank Issuances:Each of the extendible notes, issued in 2012, had an initial maturity date of January 13, 2014; on the 18th day of each month, holders are entitled to extend the maturity date of their notes for successive one-month periods in 
accordance with defined procedures.  Pursuant to these procedures, the maturity of these notes has been extended 
to March 18, 2014.  In no event may the maturity of any note be extended beyond January 15, 2016, the final 
maturity date.  Beginning on January 15, 2015, State Street Bank may redeem some or all of the notes at 100% of 
the principal amount of the notes to be redeemed, plus accrued interest to the redemption date.  State Street Bank 
is required to pay interest on the notes on March 18, June 18, September 18 and December 18 of each year, at a 

rate for each interest period equal to three-month LIBOR plus the applicable margin for that interest period.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
167With respect to the 5.25% subordinated bank notes due 2018, State Street Bank is required to make semi-annual interest payments on the outstanding principal balance of the notes on April 15 and October 15 of each year, 

and the notes qualify for inclusion in tier 2 regulatory capital under current federal regulatory capital guidelines. With 
respect to the 5.30% subordinated notes due 2016 and the floating-rate subordinated notes due 2015, State Street 
Bank is required to make semi-annual interest payments on the outstanding principal balance of the 5.30% 
subordinated notes on January 15 and July 15 of each year, and quarterly interest payments on the outstanding 

principal balance of the floating-rate notes on March 8, June 8, September 8 and December 8 of each year. Each of 

the subordinated notes qualifies for inclusion in tier 2 regulatory capital under current federal regulatory capital 
guidelines.Note 11.    Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies
Commitments:We had unfunded off-balance sheet commitments to extend credit totaling $21.30 billion and $17.86 billion as 
of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  The potential losses associated with these commitments equal the 

gross contractual amounts, and do not consider the value of any collateral.  Approximately 75% of our unfunded 

commitments to extend credit expire within one year from the date of issue.  Since many of these commitments are 
expected to expire or renew without being drawn upon, the gross contractual amounts do not necessarily represent 
our future cash requirements.Guarantees:Off-balance sheet guarantees are composed of indemnified securities financing, stable value protection, 
unfunded commitments to purchase assets, and standby letters of credit.  The potential losses associated with 

these guarantees equal the gross contractual amounts, and do not consider the value of any collateral.  The 

following table presents the aggregate gross contractual amounts of our off-balance sheet guarantees as of 

December 31, 2013 and 2012.  Amounts presented do not reflect participations to independent third parties.
 (In millions)20132012
Indemnified securities financing$320,078
$302,341
Stable value protection24,90633,512Asset purchase agreements4,6855,063Standby letters of credit4,6124,552Indemnified Securities FinancingOn behalf of our clients, we lend their securities, as agent, to brokers and other institutions.  In most circumstances, we indemnify our clients for the fair market value of those securities against a failure of the borrower 
to return such securities.  We require the borrowers to maintain collateral in an amount equal to or in excess of 

100% of the fair market value of the securities borrowed.  Securities on loan and the collateral are revalued daily to 
determine if additional collateral is necessary or if excess collateral is required to be returned to the borrower.  

Collateral received in connection with our securities lending services is held by us as agent and is not recorded in 
our consolidated statement of condition. The cash collateral held by us as agent is invested on behalf of our clients.  In certain cases, the cash collateral is invested in third-party repurchase agreements, for which we indemnify the client against loss of the 
principal invested.  We require the counterparty to the indemnified repurchase agreement to provide collateral in an 

amount equal to or in excess of 100% of the amount of the repurchase agreement.  In our role as agent, the 
indemnified repurchase agreements and the related collateral held by us are not recorded in our consolidated 
statement of condition. STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
168The following table summarizes the fair values of indemnified securities financing and related collateral, as well as collateral invested in indemnified repurchase agreements, as of December 31:(In millions)20132012
Aggregate fair value of indemnified securities financing$320,078
$302,341
Aggregate fair value of cash and securities held by us, as agent, as collateral for indemnifiedsecurities financing331,732312,223Aggregate fair value of collateral for indemnified securities financing invested in indemnifiedrepurchase agreements85,37480,224Aggregate fair value of cash and securities held by us or our agents as collateral for investments inindemnified repurchase agreements91,09785,411In certain cases, we participate in securities finance transactions as a principal.  As a principal, we borrow 
securities from the lending client and then lend such securities to the subsequent borrower, either a State Street 

client or a broker/dealer. Collateral provided and received in connection with such transactions is recorded in other 

assets and accrued expenses and other liabilities, respectively, in our consolidated statement of condition.  As of 

December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, we had approximately $11.29 billion and $6.83 billion, respectively, of 

collateral provided and approximately $6.62 billion and $4.99 billion, respectively, of collateral received from clients 

in connection with our participation in principal securities finance transactions. Stable Value Protection
In the normal course of our business, we offer products that provide book-value protection, primarily to plan 
participants in stable value funds managed by non-affiliated investment managers of post-retirement defined 

contribution benefit plans, particularly 401(k) plans.  The book-value protection is provided on portfolios of 

intermediate, investment grade fixed-income securities, and is intended to provide safety and stable growth of 
principal invested.  The protection is intended to cover any shortfall in the event that a significant number of plan 

participants withdraw funds when book value exceeds market value and the liquidation of the assets is not sufficient 

to redeem the participants.  The investment parameters of the underlying portfolios, combined with structural 

protections, are designed to provide cushion and guard against payments even under extreme stress scenarios.These contingencies are individually accounted for as derivative financial instruments.  The notional amounts 
of the stable value contracts are presented as ﬁderivatives not designated as hedging instrumentsﬂ in the table of 
aggregate notional amounts of derivative financial instruments provided in note 16.  As of December 31, 2013, we 

have not made a payment under these contingencies that we consider material to our consolidated financial 
condition, and management believes that the probability of payment under these contingencies in the future, that we 
would consider material to our consolidated financial condition, is remote.Contingencies:Legal and Regulatory MattersIn the ordinary course of business, we and our subsidiaries are involved in disputes, litigation and regulatory inquiries and investigations, both pending and threatened. These matters, if resolved adversely against us or 

settled, may result in monetary damages, fines and penalties or require changes in our business practices. The 

resolution or settlement of these matters is inherently difficult to predict. Based on our assessment of these pending 

matters, we do not believe that the amount of any judgment, settlement or other action arising from any pending 
matter is likely to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition.  However, an adverse 

outcome in certain of the matters described below could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated results 

of operations for the period in which such matter is resolved or an accrual is determined to be required, on our 
consolidated financial condition or on our reputation.We evaluate our needs for accruals of loss contingencies related to legal proceedings on a case-by-case 
basis. When we have a liability that we deem probable and can be reasonably estimated as of the date of our 
consolidated financial statements, we accrue for our estimate of the loss.  We consider a loss probable and 

establish an accrual when we make or intend to make an offer of settlement.  Once established, an accrual is 

subject to subsequent adjustment as a result of additional information. The resolution of proceedings and the 

reasonably estimable loss (or range thereof) are inherently difficult to predict, especially in the early stages of 

proceedings. Even if a loss is probable, due to many complex factors, such as speed of discovery and the timing of STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
169court decisions or rulings, a loss or range of loss might not be reasonably estimated until the later stages of the 
proceeding.As of December 31, 2013, our aggregate accruals for legal loss contingencies and regulatory matters totaled approximately $119 million.  To the extent that we have established accruals in our consolidated statement of 

condition for probable loss contingencies, such accruals may not be sufficient to cover our ultimate financial 

exposure associated with any settlements or judgments. We may be subject to proceedings in the future that, if 

adversely resolved, would have a material adverse effect on our businesses or on our future consolidated financial 

statements. Except where otherwise noted below, we have not established accruals with respect to the claims 

discussed and do not believe that potential exposure is probable and can be reasonably estimated.  The following discussion provides information with respect to significant legal and regulatory matters.  SSgAWe have previously reported on two related ERISA class actions by investors in unregistered SSgA-managed 
collective trust funds and common trust funds which challenge the division of our securities lending-related revenue 
between those funds and State Street in its role as lending agent.  In January 2014, we filed a motion to approve a 
$10 million class settlement of the collective trust fund litigation.  A final fairness hearing has been scheduled for 

May 2014.  The common trust fund class action remains pending.  We have accrued $15 million in connection with 

these matters, including the proposed class settlement.Securities FinanceTwo related participants in our agency securities lending program have brought suit against us challenging 
actions taken by us in response to their withdrawal from the program.  We believe that certain withdrawals by these 

participants were inconsistent with the redemption policy applicable to the agency lending collateral pools and, 
consequently, redeemed their remaining interests through an in-kind distribution that reflected the assets these 

participants would have received had they acted in accordance with the collateral pools' redemption policy.  In 

taking these actions, we believe that we acted in the best interests of all participants in the collateral pools.  The two 

participants have asserted damages of $120 million, an amount that plaintiffs have stated was the difference 

between the amortized cost and market value of the assets that State Street proposed to distribute to the plans in-
kind on or about August 2009.  While management does not believe that such difference is an appropriate measure 

of damages, we have been informed that the participants liquidated these securities in June 2013, and we estimate 
the loss on those sales to be approximately $11 million.  We have accrued $10 million in connection with this matter.
Foreign ExchangeWe offer our custody clients and their investment managers the option to route foreign exchange transactions 
to our foreign exchange desk through our asset servicing operation.  We record as revenue an amount 

approximately equal to the difference between the rates we set for those trades and indicative interbank market 

rates at the time of settlement of the trade. As discussed more fully below, claims have been asserted on behalf of 

certain current and former custody clients, and future claims may be asserted, alleging that our indirect foreign 
exchange rates (including the differences between those rates and indicative interbank market rates at the time we 

executed the trades) were not adequately disclosed or were otherwise improper, and seeking to recover, among 

other things, the full amount of the revenue we obtained from our indirect foreign exchange trading with them.In October 2009, the Attorney General of the State of California commenced an action under the California 
False Claims Act and California Business and Professional Code related to services State Street provides to 

California state pension plans. The California Attorney General asserts that the pricing of certain foreign exchange 

transactions for these pension plans was governed by the custody contracts for these plans and that our pricing 
was not consistent with the terms of those contracts and related disclosures to the plans, and that, as a result, State 
Street made false claims and engaged in unfair competition.  The Attorney General asserts actual damages of 

approximately $100 million for periods from 2001 to 2009 and seeks additional penalties, including treble damages. 
This action is in the discovery phase.We provide custody and principal foreign exchange services to government pension plans in other 
jurisdictions.  Since the commencement of the litigation in California, attorneys general and other governmental 
authorities from a number of jurisdictions, as well as U.S. Attorney's offices, the U.S. Department of Labor and the 

SEC, have requested information or issued subpoenas in connection with inquiries into the pricing of our foreign 
exchange services.  We continue to respond to such inquiries and subpoenas.
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
170We offer indirect foreign exchange services such as those we offer to the California state pension plans to a 
broad range of custody clients in the U.S. and internationally.  We have responded and are responding to 

information requests from a number of clients concerning our indirect foreign exchange rates.  In February 2011, a 

putative class action was filed in federal court in Boston seeking unspecified damages, including treble damages, 
on behalf of all custodial clients that executed certain foreign exchange transactions with State Street from 1998 to 
2009.  The putative class action alleges, among other things, that the rates at which State Street executed foreign 

currency trades constituted an unfair and deceptive practice under Massachusetts law and a breach of the duty of 
loyalty.  
Two other putative class actions are currently pending in federal court in Boston alleging various violations of 
ERISA on behalf of all ERISA plans custodied with us that executed indirect foreign exchange transactions with 

State Street from 1998 onward.  The complaints allege that State Street caused class members to pay unfair and 

unreasonable rates for indirect foreign exchange transactions with State Street.  The complaints seek unspecified 

damages, disgorgement of profits, and other equitable relief.We have not established an accrual with respect to any of the pending legal proceedings related to our indirect 
foreign exchange services.  We cannot provide any assurance as to the outcome of the pending proceedings, or 

whether other proceedings might be commenced against us by clients or government authorities.  We expect that 

plaintiffs will seek to recover their share of all or a portion of the revenue that we have recorded from providing 

indirect foreign exchange services. The following table summarizes our estimated total revenue worldwide from indirect foreign exchange trading services for the years ended December 31:(In millions)201320122011201020092008
Revenue from indirect foreign exchangetrading$285
$248$331$336$369$462
We believe that the amount of our revenue from such services has been of a similar or lesser order of 
magnitude for many years prior to 2008. Our revenue calculations related to indirect foreign exchange trading 
services reflect a judgment concerning the relationship between the rates we charge for indirect foreign exchange 
execution and indicative interbank market rates near in time to execution.  Our revenue from foreign exchange 
trading generally depends on the difference between the rates we set for indirect trades and indicative interbank 

market rates on the date trades settle.We cannot predict the outcome of any pending matters or whether a court, in the event of an adverse 
resolution, would consider our revenue to be the appropriate measure of damages. Shareholder LitigationThree shareholder-related complaints are currently pending in federal court in Boston.  One complaint purports to be a class action on behalf of State Street shareholders. The two other complaints purport to be class actions on 

behalf of participants and beneficiaries in the State Street Salary Savings Program who invested in the program's 
State Street common stock investment option.  The complaints allege various violations of the federal securities 

laws, common law and ERISA in connection with our public disclosures concerning our investment securities 

portfolio, our asset-backed commercial paper conduit program, and our foreign exchange trading business.  A fourth 

complaint, a purported shareholder derivative action on behalf of State Street, was dismissed in September 2013. 
We have accrued $12.5 million in connection with these matters.
Transition Management
In January 2014, we entered into a settlement with the U.K. Financial Conduct Authority as a result of our 
having charged six clients of our U.K. transition management business during 2010 and 2011 amounts in excess of 

the contractual terms.  We agreed to and have paid a fine of £22.9 million, or approximately $37.8 million, which we 

had fully accrued as of December 31, 2013.  The SEC and the U.S. Attorney are conducting separate investigations 

into this matter.  As of December 31, 2013, in addition to the above-described settlement, we had remaining 

accruals of approximately $13 million for other costs associated with the reimbursement of the affected clients and 

indemnification costs. Investment ServicingState Street is named as a defendant in a series of related complaints by investment management clients of TAG Virgin Islands, Inc., or TAG, who hold or held custodial accounts with State Street.  The complaints, 
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
171collectively, allege various claims in connection with certain assets managed by TAG and custodied with State 

Street.  In 2013, we entered into settlements with certain of the TAG account holders.  As of December 31, 2013, we 

had accrued $4.6 million with respect to claims that have not been settled. Income Taxes
In determining our provision for income taxes, we make certain judgments and interpretations with respect to tax laws in jurisdictions in which we have business operations. Because of the complex nature of these laws, in the 
normal course of our business, we are subject to challenges from U.S. and non-U.S. income tax authorities 
regarding the amount of income taxes due. These challenges may result in adjustments to the timing or amount of 

taxable income or deductions or the allocation of taxable income among tax jurisdictions.  We recognize a tax 

benefit when it is more likely than not that our position will result in a tax deduction or credit.  Additional information 

with respect to our provisions for income taxes and tax benefits, including unrecognized tax benefits, is provided in 
note 23. The Internal Revenue Service, or IRS, is currently reviewing our U.S. income tax returns for the tax years 2010 and 2011.  Management believes that we have sufficiently accrued liabilities as of December 31, 2013 for tax 

exposures, including, but not limited to, exposures related to the review by the IRS of the tax years 2010 and 2011.
Note 12.    Variable Interest Entities
Asset-Backed Investment Securities:We invest in various forms of asset-backed securities, which we carry in our investment securities portfolio.  
These asset-backed securities meet the GAAP definition of asset securitization entities, which are considered to be 

VIEs as defined by GAAP.  We are not considered to be the primary beneficiary of these VIEs, as defined by GAAP, 

since we do not have control over their activities.  Additional information about our asset-backed securities is 

provided in note 4.Tax-Exempt Investment Program:
In the normal course of our business, we structure and sell certificated interests in pools of tax-exempt investment-grade assets, principally to our mutual fund clients.  We structure these pools as partnership trusts, and 

the assets and liabilities of the trusts are recorded in our consolidated statement of condition as investment 
securities available for sale and other short-term borrowings.  We may also provide liquidity and re-marketing 

services to the trusts.  As of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, we carried investment securities 

available for sale, composed of securities related to state and political subdivisions, with a fair value of $2.33 billion 
and $2.68 billion, respectively, and other short-term borrowings (refer to note 9) of $1.95 billion and $2.15 billion, 

respectively, in our consolidated statement of condition in connection with these trusts.
We transfer assets to the trusts from our investment securities portfolio at adjusted book value, and the trusts 
finance the acquisition of these assets by selling certificated interests issued by the trusts to third-party investors 
and to State Street as residual holder.  These transfers do not meet the de-recognition criteria defined by GAAP
, and therefore, are recorded in our consolidated financial statements.  The trusts had a weighted-average life of 

approximately 6.5 years as of December 31, 2013, compared to approximately 6.9 years as of December 31, 2012.Under separate legal agreements, we provide standby bond-purchase agreements to these trusts and, with respect to certain securities, letters of credit.  Our commitments to the trusts under these standby bond-purchase 
agreements and letters of credit totaled $1.99 billion and $684 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2013, none 

of which was utilized at period-end.  In the event that our obligations under these agreements are triggered, no 
material impact to our consolidated results of operations or financial condition is expected to occur, because the 

securities are already recorded at fair value in our consolidated statement of condition. Interests in Sponsored Investment Funds:In the normal course of business, we manage various types of sponsored investment funds through SSgA.  The services we provide to these sponsored investment funds generate management fee revenue.  From time to 
time, we may invest cash in the funds, which we refer to as seed capital, in order for the funds to establish a 
performance history for newly-launched strategies.  These funds may be considered VIEs.
On December 31, 2013, we invested in a newly-launched sponsored investment fund.  Given the extent of our exposure to the variability of the net assets of the fund, we were deemed to be the fund™s primary beneficiary, and 

as a result have included the fund in our consolidated financial statements.  As of December 31, 2013, the fund™s 
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
172assets consisted solely of $50 million in cash.  In 2014, the cash will be invested in various securities and 
investment vehicles as the fund executes its investment strategy.  As of December 31, 2012, we were not deemed 

to be the primary beneficiary of any sponsored investment funds, and as a result did not include the funds in our 
consolidated financial statements as of that date.As of December 31, 2013, our potential maximum total exposure associated with the consolidated sponsored investment fund totaled $50 million and represented the value of our economic ownership interest in the fund.  In 
the aggregate, we expect any financial losses that we realize over time from these seed investments to be limited to 
the actual fair value of the amount invested in the consolidated fund, which is based on the fair value of the 
underlying investment securities held by the funds.  However, in the event of a fund wind-down, gross gains and 

losses of the fund may be recognized for financial accounting purposes in different periods during the time the fund 

is consolidated but not wholly owned.  Although we expect the actual economic loss to be limited to the amount 

invested, our losses in any period could exceed the value of our economic interests in the fund and could exceed 
the value of our initial seed capital investment.   Our conclusion to consolidate a sponsored investment fund may vary from period to period, most commonly as a result of fluctuation in our ownership interest as a result of changes in the number of fund shares held by either us 
or by third parties. Given that the funds follow specialized investment company accounting rules which prescribe fair 
value, a de-consolidation generally would not result in gains or losses for us. The net assets of any consolidated fund are solely available to settle the liabilities of the fund and to settle any investors™ ownership redemption requests, including any seed capital invested in the fund by State Street. We are 

not contractually required to provide financial or any other support to any of our sponsored investment funds.  In 
addition, neither creditors nor equity investors in the sponsored investment funds have any recourse to State 
Street™s general credit.
As of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, we managed certain sponsored investment funds, considered to be VIEs, in which we held a variable interest but for which we were not deemed to be the primary 
beneficiary. Our potential maximum loss exposure related to these unconsolidated funds totaled $18 million and $28 

million as of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, respectively, and represented the carrying value of our 

seed capital investment, which is recorded in either investment securities available for sale or other assets in our 
consolidated statement of condition. The amount of loss we may recognize during any period is limited to the 

carrying amount of our seed capital investment in the unconsolidated fund.Note 13.    Shareholders™ Equity
Preferred Stock: In 2013, we declared aggregate dividends on our non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, Series C (represented by depositary shares, each representing a 1/4,000th ownership interest in a share of State Street's 
non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, Series C) of $5,250 per share, or approximately $1.31 per depositary 
share, totaling approximately $26 million.  In 2012, dividends declared on our perpetual preferred stock, Series C, 
totaled approximately $8 million.  In 2012, we declared dividends on our non-cumulative perpetual preferred stock, 
Series A, totaling approximately $21 million.  We redeemed our Series A perpetual preferred stock in 2012.  
Dividends on shares of our Series C preferred stock are not mandatory and are not cumulative.  If declared, dividends will be payable on the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share quarterly in arrears on March 15, June 
15, September 15 or December 15 of each year at an annual rate of 5.25%.  If we issue additional shares of our 
Series C preferred stock after the original issue date, dividend rights with respect to such shares will commence 
from the original issue date of such additional shares. Dividends on our Series C preferred stock will not be 
declared to the extent that such declaration would cause us to fail to comply with applicable laws and regulations, 
including federal regulatory capital guidelines. On September 15, 2017, or any dividend payment date thereafter, the Series C preferred stock and 
corresponding depositary shares may be redeemed by us, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to 
$100,000 per share (equivalent to $25 per depositary share) plus any declared and unpaid dividends, without 
accumulation of any undeclared dividends.  The Series C preferred stock and corresponding depositary shares may 

be redeemed at our option, in whole or in part, prior to September 15, 2017, upon the occurrence of a regulatory 
capital treatment event, as defined in the certificate of designation with respect to the Series C preferred stock, at a 
redemption price equal to $100,000 per share (equivalent to $25 per depositary share) plus any declared and 
unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
173Common Stock:In March 2013, our Board of Directors approved a program authorizing the purchase by us of up to $2.10 billion of our common stock through March 31, 2014.  In connection with this and a prior Board-approved program, 
we undertook the following activities in 2013:Ł From April 1, 2013 through December 31, 2013, we purchased approximately 24.7 million shares of our 
common stock under this program at an average per-share and aggregate cost of $68.05 and $1.68 billion, 
respectively.  As of December 31, 2013, approximately $420 million remained available for purchases of our 

common stock under the March 2013 program.  Ł From January 1, 2013 through March 31, 2013, we purchased approximately 6.5 million shares of our 
common stock at an average cost of $54.95 per share and an aggregate cost of approximately $360 million, 
under a previous Board-approved program which ended on March 31, 2013.  Ł In 2013, in the aggregate under both programs, we purchased approximately 31.2 million shares of our 
common stock at an average per-share cost of $65.30 and an aggregate cost of approximately $2.04 billion.Shares acquired in connection with our common stock purchase programs which remained unissued as of December 31, 2013 were recorded as treasury stock in our consolidated statement of condition as of December 31, 
2013.In 2013, we declared aggregate common stock dividends of $1.04 per share, totaling approximately $463 million, compared to aggregate common stock dividends of $0.96 per share, totaling approximately $456 million, 
declared in 2012.Our common shares may be acquired for certain deferred compensation plans, held by an external trustee, that are not part of our common stock purchase program.  As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, approximately 

375,000 shares and 387,000 shares, respectively, had been purchased and were held in trust, and were recorded 

as treasury stock in our consolidated statement of condition as of those dates.Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss):The following table presents the after-tax components of AOCI as of December 31:
(In millions)201320122011
Net unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedges$161
$69$(5)
Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities portfolio(56)815110
Net unrealized losses related to reclassified available-for-sale securities(72)(110)(189)
Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities(128)705(79)
Net unrealized losses on available-for-sale securities designated in fairvalue hedges(97)(183)(210)
Other-than-temporary impairment on available-for-sale securities related tofactors other than credit4(3)(17)
Net unrealized losses on hedges of net investments in non-U.S.subsidiaries(14)(14)(14)
Other-than-temporary impairment on held-to-maturity securities related tofactors other than credit(47)(65)(86)
Net unrealized losses on retirement plans(203)(283)(248)
Foreign currency translation229134Š
Total$(95)
$360$(659)
In the year ended December 31, 2013, we realized net gains of $14 million, or $9 million net of related taxes as presented in the table above, from sales of available-for-sale securities.  Unrealized pre-tax gains of $25 million 
were included in AOCI as of December 31, 2012, net of deferred taxes of $10 million, related to these sales.  In the 

year ended December 31, 2012, we realized net gains of $55 million from sales of available-for-sale securities. 
Unrealized pre-tax gains of $67 million were included in AOCI as of December 31, 2011, net of deferred taxes of 

$27 million, related to these sales.  In the year ended December 31, 2011, we realized net gains of $140 million 

from sales of available-for-sale securities. Unrealized pre-tax gains of $76 million were included in other 
comprehensive income as of December 31, 2010, net of deferred taxes of $30 million, related to these sales.  STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
174The following table presents changes in AOCI by component, net of related taxes, for the year ended 
December 31: Year Ended December 31, 2013(In millions)NetUnrealizedGains(Losses)on CashFlowHedgesNetUnrealizedGains(Losses)onAvailable-for-SaleSecuritiesNetUnrealizedLosses onHedges ofNetInvestmentsin Non-U.S.SubsidiariesOther-Than-TemporaryImpairmenton Held-to-MaturitySecuritiesNetUnrealizedLosses onRetirementPlansForeignCurrencyTranslationTotal
Beginning balance$69$519$(14)$(65)$(283)$134$360
Other comprehensive income (loss)before reclassifications89(735)Š156096(475)
Amounts reclassified out of AOCI3(5)Š320(1)20
Other comprehensive income (loss)92(740)Š188095(455)
Ending balance$161$(221)$(14)$(47)$(203)$229$(95)
The following table presents reclassifications out of AOCI for the year ended December 31, 2013: 
AmountReclassified outof AOCIAffected Line Item inConsolidated Statement ofIncome(In millions)Cash flow hedges:Interest-rate contracts, net of related tax benefit of $2$3Net interest revenueAvailable-for-sale securities:Net realized gains from sales of available-for-sale securities, net of relatedtaxes of ($5)(9)
Net gains (losses) from salesof available-for-sale
securitiesOther-than-temporary impairment on available-for-sale securities related tofactors other than credit, net of related tax benefit of $24Losses reclassified (from) toother comprehensive incomeHeld-to-maturity securities:
Other-than-temporary impairment on held-to-maturity securities related tofactors other than credit, net of related tax benefit of $33Losses reclassified (from) toother comprehensive incomeRetirement plans:Amortization of actuarial losses, net of related tax benefit of $1320Compensation and employeebenefits expenseForeign currency translation:Sales of non-U.S. entities, net of related taxes of ($1)(1)
Processing fees and otherrevenueTotal reclassifications out of AOCI$20
Note 14. Equity-Based Compensation
In May 2012, our shareholders amended the 2006 Equity Incentive Plan to increase the number of shares of our common stock that may be delivered in satisfaction of stock and stock-based awards, including stock options, 
stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, deferred stock and performance awards, from 37 million shares to 52.5 
million shares. In addition, up to 8 million shares from our 1997 Equity Incentive Plan were approved for issuance 
under the 2006 Plan. This included shares that were available for issuance when the plan expired on December 18, 

2006, and any shares that subsequently become available due to cancellations and forfeitures.  A total of 60.5 

million shares is available for issuance under the 2006 Plan.As of December 31, 2013, a cumulative total of 52.4 million shares had been awarded under the 2006 Plan, compared with cumulative totals of 45.3 million shares and 32.8 million shares as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, 
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
175respectively. The 2006 Plan allows for shares withheld in payment of the exercise price of an award or in 

satisfaction of tax withholding requirements, shares forfeited due to employee termination, shares expired under 
options awards, or shares not delivered when performance conditions have not been met, to be added back to the 
pool of shares available for awards. As of December 31, 2013, 14 million shares had been awarded under the 2006 

Plan but not delivered, and have become available for reissue.The exercise price of non-qualified and incentive stock options and stock appreciation rights may not be less than the fair value of such shares on the date of grant. Stock options and stock appreciation rights granted under 
the 1997 and 2006 plans generally vest over four years and expire no later than ten years from the date of grant. 
For restricted stock awards granted under the plans, common stock is issued at the time of grant and recipients 
have dividend and voting rights. In general, these grants vest over three to four years. No restricted stock awards 
have been granted since 2010. For deferred stock awards granted under the plans, no common stock is issued at the time of grant and the stock does not have dividend and voting rights. Generally, these grants vest over two to four years. Performance 

awards granted are earned over a performance period based on the achievement of defined goals, generally over 
one to four years. Payment for performance awards is made in shares of our common stock equal to its fair market 
value per share, based on certain financial ratios, after the conclusion of each performance period. No common 
stock options or stock appreciation rights have been granted since 2009.In December 2012, malus-based forfeiture provisions were included in deferred stock awards granted to employees identified as ﬁmaterial risk-takers.ﬂ  These malus-based forfeiture provisions provide for the reduction or 

cancellation of unvested deferred compensation, such as deferred stock awards, if it is determined that a material 
risk-taker made risk-based decisions that exposed State Street to inappropriate risks that resulted in a material 
unexpected loss at the business-unit, line-of-business or corporate level.  Compensation expense related to stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, deferred stock awards and performance awards, which we record as a component of compensation and employee benefits 
expense in our consolidated statement of income, was $355 million, $353 million and $261 million for the years 
ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  Such expense for 2013 and 2012 excluded $3 million and 

$26 million, respectively, associated with acceleration of expense in connection with the staff reductions discussed 

in note 21. This expense was included in the severance-related portion of the associated restructuring charges 

recorded in each respective year. The aggregate income tax benefit recorded in our consolidated statement of 

income related to compensation expense recorded as a component of compensation and employee benefits 
expense was $140 million, $139 million and $103 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, 

respectively.
The following table presents information about the 2006 Plan and 1997 Plan as of December 31, 2013, and related activity during the years indicated:Shares(in thousands)Weighted-
Average
ExercisePriceWeighted-
Average
RemainingContractualTerm
(in years)Total
IntrinsicValue
(in millions)Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights:Outstanding as of December 31, 20117,709$53.37

Exercised(1,459)38.09

Forfeited or expired(612)51.03

Outstanding as of December 31, 20125,63857.58

Exercised(2,725)45.93
Forfeited or expired(249)68.80
Outstanding as of December 31, 20132,664$68.452.3$20
Exercisable as of December 31, 20132,664$68.452.3$20
The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was 
$42 million, $8 million and $6 million, respectively.  As of December 31, 2013, there was no unrecognized 

compensation cost related to stock options and stock appreciation rights.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
176The following tables present activity related to other common stock awards during the years indicated:Shares(in thousands)Weighted-Average
Grant Date FairValue
Restricted Stock Awards:Outstanding as of December 31, 20114,165$43.25

Vested(1,497)42.87
Forfeited(66)44.64
Outstanding as of December 31, 20122,60243.44

Vested(1,339)42.47
Forfeited(18)43.98
Outstanding as of December 31, 20131,245$44.47
 The total fair value of restricted stock awards vested was $57 million, $64 million, and $66 million for the 
years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  As of December 31, 2013, total unrecognized 

compensation cost related to restricted stock, net of estimated forfeitures, was $8 million, which is expected to be 
recognized over a weighted-average period of six months.Shares(in thousands)Weighted-Average
Grant Date FairValue
Deferred Stock Awards:Outstanding as of December 31, 20118,953$42.34

Granted11,40538.48
Vested(5,123)43.46
Forfeited(421)39.27
Outstanding as of December 31, 201214,81439.08

Granted6,90654.16
Vested(6,332)40.97
Forfeited(294)44.48
Outstanding as of December 31, 201315,094$45.07
The weighted-average grant date fair value of deferred stock awards granted in 2011 was $41.92 per share. 
The total fair value of deferred stock awards vested was $259 million, $223 million and $107 million for the years 
ended December 31, 2013, December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  As of December 31, 2013, total 

unrecognized compensation cost related to deferred stock awards, net of estimated forfeitures, was $400 million, 
which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.4 years.Shares(in thousands)Weighted-Average
Grant Date FairValue
Performance Awards:Outstanding as of December 31, 20112,629$42.52

Granted76437.78
Forfeited(200)42.59
Paid out(646)44.07
Outstanding as of December 31, 20122,54740.70

Granted49453.60
Forfeited(4)41.62
Paid out(813)41.62
Outstanding as of December 31, 20132,224$43.24
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
177The weighted-average grant date fair value of performance awards granted in 2011 was $42.28 per share. The 
total fair value of performance awards paid out was $34 million, $28 million and $10 million for the years ended 
December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  As of December 31, 2013, total unrecognized compensation cost 

related to performance awards, net of estimated forfeitures, was $6 million, which is expected to be recognized over 
a weighted-average period of 1.7 years.We utilize either treasury shares or authorized but unissued shares to satisfy the issuance of common stock 
under our equity incentive plans. We do not have a specific policy concerning purchases of our common stock to 

satisfy stock issuances, including exercises of stock options. We have a general policy concerning purchases of our 

common stock to meet issuances under our employee benefit plans, including option exercises and other corporate 
purposes. Various factors determine the amount and timing of our purchases of our common stock, including 

regulatory reviews, our regulatory capital requirements, the number of shares we expect to issue under employee 
benefit plans, market conditions (including the trading price of our common stock), and legal considerations. These 

factors can change at any time, and the number of shares of common stock we will purchase or when we will 
purchase them cannot be assured.Note 15. Regulatory Matters
Regulatory Capital: We are subject to various regulatory capital requirements administered by federal banking agencies. Failure 
to meet minimum regulatory capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and discretionary actions by 
regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on our consolidated financial condition. Under 

current regulatory capital adequacy guidelines, we must meet specified capital requirements that involve 
quantitative measures of our consolidated assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet exposures calculated in 

conformity with regulatory accounting practices. Our capital components and their classifications are subject to 
qualitative judgments by regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors. Quantitative measures established by regulation with respect to capital adequacy require State Street and 
State Street Bank to maintain minimum risk-based capital and leverage ratios as set forth in the following table. The 

risk-based capital ratios are tier 1 capital and total capital, each divided by adjusted total risk-weighted assets and 
market risk equivalent assets, and the tier 1 leverage ratio is tier 1 capital divided by adjusted quarterly average 
assets.  As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, State Street and State Street Bank exceeded all regulatory capital 

adequacy requirements to which they were subject. As of December 31, 2013, State Street Bank was categorized as ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ under the regulatory 
capital adequacy framework. To be categorized as ﬁwell capitalized,ﬂ State Street Bank must meet or exceed the 

minimum ratios for ﬁwell capitalized,ﬂ as set forth in the following table, and meet certain other requirements.  As of 

December 31, 2013 and 2012, State Street Bank exceeded all ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ ratio guidelines to which it was 
subject. Management believes that no conditions or events have occurred since December 31, 2013 that have 
changed the capital categorization of State Street Bank.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
178 The following table presents regulatory capital ratios and related components as of December 31:
 Regulatory Guidelines(1)State StreetState Street Bank
(Dollars in millions)Minimum
Well
Capitalized2013201220132012
Risk-based ratios:
Tier 1 capital4%6%
17.3%19.1%16.4%17.3%Total capital810
19.720.619.019.1Tier 1 leverage ratio45
6.97.16.46.3Total shareholders™ equity$20,378
$20,869
$19,755$19,681Trust preferred capital securities950950ŠŠNet unrealized (gains) losses on available-for-sale securities and cash flow hedges107(525)112(523)Net unrealized losses on retirement plans203283192277Goodwill(6,036)(5,977)(5,740)(5,679)Other intangible assets(2,360)(2,539)(2,239)(2,392)Deferred tax liabilities associated withacquisitions653699638680Tier 1 capital13,89513,76012,71812,044Qualifying subordinated debt1,9181,2191,9361,223Allowances for on- and off-balance sheet creditexposures45394539Unrealized gains on available-for-sale equitysecurities32ŠŠTier 2 capital1,9661,2601,9811,262Deduction for investments in finance subsidiaries(74)(191)ŠŠTotal capital$15,787
$14,829
$14,699$13,306Adjusted total risk-weighted assets and marketrisk equivalent assets:On-balance sheet assets$60,277
$58,238
$57,599$55,949Off-balance sheet equivalent assets18,58713,15518,59813,144Market risk equivalent assets1,2625191,262445Total$80,126
$71,912
$77,459$69,538Adjusted quarterly average assets$202,801
$192,817
$199,301
$189,780
 ________________________________(1) State Street Bank must comply with the regulatory guideline for ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ in order for the parent company to maintain its status as a financial holding company, including maintaining a minimum tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6%, a minimum 

total risk-based capital ratio of 10%, and a minimum tier 1 leverage ratio of 5%. The ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ guideline requires us 
to maintain a minimum tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 6% and a minimum total risk-based capital ratio of 10%.Cash, Dividend, Loan and Other Restrictions:In 2013, our banking subsidiaries were required by the Federal Reserve to maintain average aggregate cash balances of approximately $4.39 billion to satisfy reserve requirements. Federal and state banking regulations place 
certain restrictions on dividends paid by banking subsidiaries to a parent company. For 2014, aggregate dividend 

payments by State Street Bank to the parent company without prior regulatory approval are limited to approximately 
$401 million of its undistributed earnings as of December 31, 2013, plus an additional amount equal to its net 
profits, as defined by the aforementioned banking regulations, for 2014 up to the date of any dividend payment.  
Currently, the payment of future common stock dividends by the parent company to its shareholders is subject to 

the review of our capital plan by the Federal Reserve in connection with its Comprehensive Capital Analysis and 

Review process.  The Federal Reserve Act requires that extensions of credit by State Street Bank to certain affiliates, including 
the parent company, be secured by specific collateral, that the extension of credit to any one affiliate be limited to 

10% of State Street Bank™s capital and surplus, as defined, and that extensions of credit to all such affiliates be 

limited to 20% of State Street Bank™s capital and surplus.
As of December 31, 2013, our consolidated retained earnings included $474 million representing undistributed earnings of unconsolidated entities that are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
179Note 16.    Derivative Financial InstrumentsWe use derivative financial instruments to support our clients' needs and to manage our interest-rate and 
currency risk. In undertaking these activities, we assume positions in both the foreign exchange and interest-rate 
markets by buying and selling cash instruments and using derivative financial instruments, including foreign 
exchange forward contracts, foreign exchange and interest-rate options and interest-rate swaps, interest-rate 
forward contracts and interest-rate futures. Interest-rate contracts involve an agreement with a counterparty to exchange cash flows based on the movement of an underlying interest-rate index.  An interest-rate swap agreement involves the exchange of a series 

of interest payments, at either a fixed or variable rate, based on the notional amount without the exchange of the 
underlying principal amount. An interest-rate option contract provides the purchaser, for a premium, the right, but 

not the obligation, to receive an interest rate based upon a predetermined notional amount during a specified 
period. An interest-rate futures contract is a commitment to buy or sell, at a future date, a financial instrument at a 

contracted price; it may be settled in cash or through the delivery of the contracted instrument. Foreign exchange contracts involve an agreement to exchange one currency for another currency at an agreed-upon rate and settlement date. Foreign exchange contracts generally consist of foreign exchange forward 
and spot contracts, option contracts and cross-currency swaps. Future cash requirements, if any, related to foreign 

exchange contracts are represented by the gross amount of currencies to be exchanged under each contract 
unless we and the counterparty have agreed to pay or to receive the net contractual settlement amount on the 
settlement date. Derivative financial instruments involve the management of interest-rate and foreign currency risk, and involve, to varying degrees, market risk and credit and counterparty risk (risk related to repayment).  Market risk is defined 
by U.S. banking regulators as the risk of loss that could result from broad market movements, such as changes in 
the general level of interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates or commodity prices.  We use a variety of 

risk management tools and methodologies to measure, monitor and manage the market risk associated with our 
trading activities, which trading activities include our use of derivative financial instruments. One such risk-
management measure is Value-at-Risk, or VaR. VaR is an estimate of potential loss for a given period within a 

stated statistical confidence interval. We use a risk-measurement system to measure VaR daily. We have adopted 

standards for measuring VaR, and we maintain regulatory capital for market risk in accordance with currently 

applicable regulatory market risk capital guidelines. Derivative financial instruments are also subject to credit and counterparty risk, which is defined as the risk of financial loss if a borrower or counterparty is either unable or unwilling to repay borrowings or settle a transaction in 
accordance with the underlying contractual terms. We manage credit and counterparty risk by performing credit 

reviews, maintaining individual counterparty limits, entering into netting arrangements and requiring the receipt of 
collateral. Collateral requirements are determined after a review of the creditworthiness of each counterparty, and 

these requirements are monitored and adjusted daily. Collateral is generally held in the form of cash or highly liquid 

U.S. government securities. We may be required to provide collateral to the counterparty in connection with our 

entry into derivative financial instruments.  Cash collateral received from and provided to counterparties in 
connection with derivative financial instruments is recorded in accrued expenses and other liabilities and other 
assets, respectively, in our consolidated statement of condition. As of December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, 

we had recorded approximately $2.58 billion and $1.68 billion, respectively, of cash collateral received from 

counterparties and approximately $3.36 billion and $1.30 billion, respectively, of cash collateral provided to 

counterparties in connection with derivative financial instruments in our consolidated statement of condition. We enter into master netting agreements with many of our derivative counterparties, and we have elected to 
net derivative assets and liabilities, including cash collateral received or deposited, which are subject to those 
agreements. Certain of these agreements contain credit risk-related contingent features in which the counterparty 
has the option to declare State Street in default and accelerate cash settlement of our net derivative liabilities with 
the counterparty in the event that our credit rating falls below specified levels. The aggregate fair value of all 

derivative instruments with credit risk-related contingent features that were in a net liability position as of 
December 31, 2013 totaled approximately $565 million, against which we had posted aggregate collateral of 
approximately $11 million. If State Street™s credit rating were downgraded below levels specified in the agreements, 

the maximum additional amount of payments related to termination events that could have been required pursuant 
to these contingent features as of December 31, 2013 was approximately $554 million. Such accelerated settlement 
would not affect our consolidated results of operations.
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
180Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments:In connection with our trading activities, we use derivative financial instruments in our role as a financial intermediary and as both a manager and servicer of financial assets, in order to accommodate our clients' 
investment and risk management needs. In addition, we use derivative financial instruments for risk management 
purposes as economic hedges, which are not formally designated as accounting hedges, in order to contribute to 
our overall corporate earnings and liquidity. These activities are designed to generate trading services revenue and 

to manage volatility in our net interest revenue. The level of market risk that we assume is a function of our overall 

objectives and liquidity needs, our clients' requirements and market volatility. 
With respect to cross-border investing, our clients often enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to convert currency for international investments and to manage the currency risk in their international investment 
portfolios.  As an active participant in the foreign exchange markets, we provide foreign exchange forward contracts 

and options in support of these client needs, and also act as a dealer in the currency markets.  As part of our trading 

activities, we assume positions in both the foreign exchange and interest-rate markets by buying and selling cash 
instruments and using derivative financial instruments, including foreign exchange forward contracts, foreign 
exchange and interest-rate options and interest-rate swaps, interest-rate forward contracts, and interest-rate 
futures. In the aggregate, we seek to match positions closely with the objective of minimizing related currency and 
interest-rate risk.We offer products that provide book-value protection primarily to plan participants in stable value funds 
managed by non-affiliated investment managers of post-retirement defined contribution benefit plans, particularly 

401(k) plans. We account for the associated contingencies, more fully described in note 11, individually as 

derivative financial instruments. These contracts are valued quarterly and unrealized losses, if any, are recorded in 

other expenses in our consolidated statement of income. Derivatives Designated as Hedging Instruments:In connection with our asset-and-liability management activities, we use derivative financial instruments to manage our interest-rate risk. Interest-rate risk, defined as the sensitivity of income or financial condition to 
variations in interest rates, is a significant non-trading market risk to which our assets and liabilities are exposed. 
These hedging relationships are formally designated, and qualify for hedge accounting, as fair value or cash flow 
hedges. We manage interest-rate risk by identifying, quantifying and hedging our exposures, using fixed-rate 

portfolio securities and a variety of derivative financial instruments, most frequently interest-rate swaps and options 
(for example, interest-rate caps and floors). Interest-rate swap agreements alter the interest-rate characteristics of 
specific balance sheet assets or liabilities. When appropriate, forward-rate agreements, options on swaps, and 
exchange-traded futures and options are also used.  Fair value hedgesDerivatives designated as fair value hedges are utilized to mitigate the risk of changes in the fair values of recognized assets and liabilities. Differences between the gains and losses on fair value hedges and the gains and 

losses on the asset or liability attributable to the hedged risk represent hedge ineffectiveness. We use interest-rate 

or foreign exchange contracts in this manner to manage our exposure to changes in the fair value of hedged items 
caused by changes in interest rates or foreign exchange rates. We have entered into interest-rate swap agreements to modify our interest revenue from certain available-for-
sale investment securities from a fixed rate to a floating rate. The hedged securities had a weighted-average life of 

approximately 6.5 years as of December 31, 2013, compared to 6.9 years as of December 31, 2012. These 

securities are hedged with interest-rate swap contracts of similar maturity, repricing and fixed-rate coupons. The 

interest-rate swap contracts convert the interest revenue from a fixed rate to a floating rate indexed to LIBOR, 
thereby mitigating our exposure to fluctuations in the fair value of the securities attributable to changes in the 
benchmark interest rate. We have entered into interest-rate swap agreements to modify our interest expense on two senior notes and 
one subordinated note from fixed rates to floating rates.  The senior notes mature in 2018 and 2023 and pay fixed 

interest at annual rates of 1.35% and 3.70%, respectively.  The subordinated note matures in 2023 and pays fixed 

interest at a 3.10% annual rate. The senior and subordinated notes are hedged with interest-rate swap contracts 

with notional amounts, maturities and fixed-rate coupon terms that align with the hedged notes. The interest-rate 

swap contracts convert the fixed-rate coupons to floating rates indexed to LIBOR, thereby mitigating our exposure STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
181to fluctuations in the fair values of the senior and subordinated notes stemming from changes in the benchmark 
interest rates. We have entered into forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the change in fair value attributable to 
foreign exchange movements in the funding of non-functional currency-denominated investment securities. These 

forward contracts convert the foreign currency risk to U.S. dollars, thereby mitigating our exposure to fluctuations in 
the fair value of the securities attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates. Generally, no ineffectiveness is 

recorded in earnings, since the notional amount of the hedging instruments is aligned with the carrying value of the 
hedged securities. The forward points on the hedging instruments are considered to be a hedging cost, and 

accordingly are excluded from the evaluation of hedge effectiveness and recorded in net interest revenue. 
Cash flow hedgesDerivatives categorized as cash flow hedges are utilized to offset the variability of cash flows to be received 
from or paid on a floating-rate asset or liability. Ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges is defined as the extent to which 

the changes in fair value of the derivative exceed the variability of cash flows of the forecast transaction. We have entered into an interest-rate swap agreement to modify our interest revenue from an available-for-
sale debt security from a floating rate to a fixed rate. The hedged security had a remaining life of approximately 10 

months as of December 31, 2013, compared to 1.8 years as of December 31, 2012. The security is hedged with an 

interest-rate swap contract of similar maturity, repricing and other characteristics. The interest-rate swap contract 

converts the interest revenue from a floating rate to a fixed rate, thereby mitigating our exposure to fluctuations in 
the cash flows of the security attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate.  We have entered into foreign exchange contracts to hedge the change in cash flows attributable to foreign 
exchange movements in the funding of non-functional currency-denominated investment securities. These foreign 

exchange contracts convert the foreign currency risk to U.S. dollars, thereby mitigating our exposure to fluctuations 
in the cash flows of the securities attributable to changes in foreign exchange rates. Generally, no ineffectiveness is 

recorded in earnings, since the critical terms of the hedging instruments and the hedged securities are aligned.For cash flow hedges, any changes in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments remain in AOCI, and 
are generally recorded in our consolidated statement of income in future periods when earnings are affected by the 

variability of the hedged cash flow.
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
182The following table presents the aggregate contractual, or notional, amounts of derivative financial instruments entered into in connection with our trading and asset-and-liability management activities as of the dates indicated:(In millions)December 31,2013December 31,2012Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:Interest-rate contracts:Swap agreements and forwards$1,023
$1,578
Options and caps purchased2768Options and caps written2768Futures3,2821,910Foreign exchange contracts:Forward, swap and spot1,124,355897,354Options purchased1,6669,454Options written1,4238,734Credit derivative contracts:Credit swap agreements14127Other:Stable value contracts24,90633,512Futures3ŠDerivatives designated as hedging instruments:Interest-rate contracts:Swap agreements5,2213,153Foreign exchange contracts:Forward and swap2,7833,477In connection with our asset-and-liability management activities, we have entered into interest-rate contracts designated as fair value and cash flow hedges to manage our interest-rate risk. The following table presents the 

aggregate notional amounts of these interest-rate contracts and the related assets or liabilities being hedged as of 
the dates indicated:  December 31, 2013December 31, 2012
(In millions)FairValue
HedgesCashFlowHedgesTotal
FairValue
HedgesCashFlowHedgesTotal
Investment securities available for sale$2,589$132$2,721
$1,573$130$1,703
Long-term debt(1)2,500Š2,500
1,450Š1,450
Total$5,089$132$5,221
$3,023$130$3,153
(1) As of December 31, 2013, fair value hedges of long-term debt decreased the carrying value of long-term debt presented in our consolidated statement of condition by $35 million.  As of December 31, 2012, fair value hedges of long-term debt increased 

the carrying value of long-term debt presented in our consolidated statement of condition by $174 million.The following table presents the contractual and weighted-average interest rates for long-term debt, which include the effects of the fair value hedges presented in the table above, for the periods indicated: 
 Years Ended December 31, 20132012
 ContractualRatesRate IncludingImpact of HedgesContractualRatesRate IncludingImpact of HedgesLong-term debt3.46%2.75%
4.01%3.17%
The following tables present the fair value of derivative financial instruments, excluding the impact of master netting agreements, recorded in our consolidated statement of condition as of the dates indicated. The impact of 

master netting agreements is disclosed in note 3.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
183  Asset DerivativesBalance SheetLocationFair Value
(In millions)December 31,2013December 31,2012Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:Foreign exchange contractsOther assets$11,552
$9,243
Interest-rate contractsOther assets2961Credit derivative contractsOther assets1ŠTotal$11,582
$9,304
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments:Foreign exchange contractsOther assets$359
$135
Interest-rate contractsOther assets36162Total$395
$297
 Liability DerivativesBalance SheetLocationFair Value
(In millions)December 31,2013December 31,2012Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:Foreign exchange contractsOther liabilities$11,428
$9,067
Interest-rate contractsOther liabilities2961Other derivative contractsOther liabilities99Total$11,466
$9,137
Derivatives designated as hedging instruments:Interest-rate contractsOther liabilities$302
$284
Foreign exchange contractsOther liabilities4317Total$345
$301
 STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
184The following tables present the impact of our use of derivative financial instruments on our consolidated statement of income for the years indicated:Location of Gain (Loss) onDerivative in ConsolidatedStatement of IncomeAmount of Gain (Loss) on Derivative Recognized inConsolidated Statementof IncomeYears Ended December 31,(In millions) 201320122011
Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments:Foreign exchange contractsTrading services revenue$586
$576$641
Foreign exchange contractsProcessing fees and other revenueŠ(2)7
Interest-rate contractsTrading services revenue2(86)21
Interest-rate contractsProcessing fees and other revenueŠ6ŠCredit derivative contractsProcessing fees and other revenue1ŠŠTotal$589
$494$669
 Location ofGain (Loss) onDerivative inConsolidatedStatement ofIncomeAmount of Gain(Loss) on DerivativeRecognized  inConsolidatedStatement of IncomeHedged Item inFair ValueHedgingRelationshipLocation of  Gain(Loss) onHedged Item  inConsolidated
Statement  ofIncomeAmount of Gain(Loss) on HedgedItem Recognized inConsolidatedStatement of Income(In millions)Years Ended December 31,Years Ended December 31,

Derivatives designated asfair value hedges:201320122011201320122011
Foreign exchange contractsProcessing fees andother revenue$(183)
$34$
(161)InvestmentsecuritiesProcessing fees andother revenue$183
$(34)$161
Interest-rate contractsProcessing fees andother revenue3211(165)Available-for-salesecuritiesProcessing fees andother revenue(30)(17)153
Interest-rate contractsProcessing fees andother revenue(192)
5075Long-term debtProcessing fees andother revenue175(45)(70)
Total$(343)
$95$
(251)$328
$(96)$244
Differences between the gains (losses) on the derivative and the gains (losses) on the hedged item, excluding 
any amounts recorded in net interest revenue, represent hedge ineffectiveness.
Amount of Gain(Loss) on DerivativeRecognized in OtherComprehensiveIncomeLocation ofGain (Loss)Reclassifiedfrom OCI toConsolidatedStatement ofIncomeAmount of Gain(Loss) Reclassifiedfrom OCI toConsolidatedStatement of IncomeLocation ofGain (Loss) onDerivativeRecognized inConsolidatedStatement ofIncomeAmount of Gain(Loss) on DerivativeRecognized inConsolidatedStatement of IncomeYears Ended December 31,Years Ended December 31,Years Ended December 31,
(In millions)201320122011
 201320122011
 201320122011
Derivativesdesignated as
cash flow
hedges:Interest-ratecontracts$9$4$9
Net interestrevenue$(4)
$(5)$(7)
Net interestrevenue$3$3$3
Foreignexchange
contracts153122Š
Net interestrevenueŠŠŠNet interestrevenue66ŠTotal$162
$126$9
$(4)
$(5)$(7)
$9$9$3
 Note 17.  Offsetting Arrangements 
 We manage credit and counterparty risk by entering into enforceable netting agreements and other collateral 
arrangements with counterparties to derivative financial instruments and secured financing transactions, including 
resale and repurchase agreements, and principal securities borrowing and lending agreements. These netting 

agreements mitigate our counterparty credit risk by providing for a single net settlement with a counterparty of all 
financial transactions covered by the agreement in an event of default as defined under such agreement. In limited STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
185cases, a netting agreement may also provide for the periodic netting of settlement payments with respect to multiple 
different transaction types in the normal course of business.
Certain of our derivative contracts are executed under either standardized netting agreements or, for 
exchange-traded derivatives, the relevant contracts for a particular exchange which contain enforceable netting 
provisions. In certain cases, we may have cross-product netting arrangements which allow for netting and set-off of 

a variety of types of derivatives with a single counterparty. A derivative netting arrangement creates an enforceable 

right of set-off that becomes effective, and effects the realization or settlement of individual financial assets and 

liabilities, only following a specified event of default.  Collateral requirements associated with our derivative 
contracts are determined after a review of the creditworthiness of each counterparty, and the requirements are 

monitored and adjusted daily, typically based on net exposure by counterparty. Collateral is generally in the form of 

cash or highly liquid U.S. government securities.In connection with our secured financing activities, we enter into netting agreements and other collateral arrangements with counterparties, which provide for the right to liquidate collateral upon an event of default.  
Collateral is generally required in the form of cash, equity securities or fixed-income securities.  Default events may 
include the failure to make payments or deliver securities timely, material adverse changes in financial condition or 

insolvency, the breach of minimum regulatory capital requirements, or loss of license, charter or other legal 

authorization necessary to perform under the contract.In order for an arrangement to be eligible for netting, we must have a basis to conclude that such netting arrangements are legally enforceable. The analysis of the legal enforceability of an arrangement differs by 

jurisdiction, depending on the laws of that jurisdiction. In many jurisdictions, specific legislation exists that provides 
for the enforceability in bankruptcy of close-out netting under a netting agreement, typically by way of specific 
exception from more general prohibitions on the exercise of creditor rights.When we have a basis to conclude that a legally enforceable netting arrangement exists between us and the derivative counterparty and the relevant transaction is the type of transaction that is recorded in our consolidated 
statement of condition, we offset derivative assets and liabilities, and the related collateral received and provided, in 

our consolidated statement of condition.  We also offset assets and liabilities related to secured financing activities 

with the same counterparty or clearinghouse which have the same maturity date and are settled in the normal 
course of business on a net basis.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
186The following tables present information about the offsetting of assets related to derivative financial 
instruments and secured financing transactions, as of the dates indicated:Assets:December 31, 2013December 31, 2012
(In millions)Gross Amounts of Recognized Assets(1)Gross Amounts Offset in Statement of Condition(2)Net Amountsof AssetsPresented inStatement ofConditionGross Amounts of Recognized Assets(1)Gross Amounts Offset in Statement of Condition(2)Net Amountsof AssetsPresented inStatement ofConditionDerivatives:Interest-rate contracts$65$(59)$6
$223$(19)$204
Foreign exchangecontracts11,911(4,514)7,397
9,378(3,575)5,803
Credit derivative contracts1Š1
ŠŠŠ
Cash collateral nettingŠ(1,928)(1,928)
Š(1,451)(1,451)
Total derivatives$11,977$(6,501)$5,476
$9,601$(5,045)$4,556
Other financial instruments:Resale agreements and securities borrowing(3)$48,221$(30,700)$17,521
$35,658$(23,809)$11,849
Total derivatives andother financial
instruments$60,198$(37,201)$22,997
$45,259$(28,854)$16,405
(1) Amounts include all transactions regardless of whether or not they are subject to an enforceable netting arrangement.(2) Amounts subject to netting arrangements which have been determined to be legally enforceable.(3) Included in the $17,521 million as of December 31, 2013 was $6,230 million of resale agreements and $11,291 million of 
collateral related to securities borrowing.  Included in the $11,849 million as of December 31, 2012 was $5,016 million of 

resale agreements and $6,833 million of collateral related to securities borrowing.  Resale agreements and collateral related to securities borrowing were recorded in securities purchased under resale agreements and other assets, respectively, in our 

consolidated statement of condition.  Refer to note 11 for additional information with respect to principal securities finance 

transactions.December 31, 2013December 31, 2012
Gross Amounts Not Offset in 
Statement of Condition(1)Gross Amounts Not Offset 
in Statement of Condition(1)(In millions)Net Amountof AssetsPresented inStatement ofConditionCounterpartyNettingCollateralReceivedNet Amount(2)Net Amountof AssetsPresented inStatement ofConditionCounterpartyNettingCollateralReceivedNet Amount(2)Derivatives$5,476$Š$(181)$5,295
$4,556$Š$(105)$4,451
Resaleagreements
and
securities
borrowing17,521(131)(14,983)2,407
11,849(126)(11,626)97
Total$22,997$(131)$(15,164)$
7,702$16,405$(126)$(11,731)$4,548
(1) Amounts subject to netting arrangements which have been determined to be legally enforceable.(2) Includes amounts secured by collateral not determined to be subject to enforceable netting arrangements.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
187The following tables present information about the offsetting of liabilities related to derivative financial 
instruments and secured financing transactions, as of the dates indicated:Liabilities:December 31, 2013December 31, 2012
(In millions)Gross Amounts of Recognized Liabilities(1)Gross Amounts Offset in Statement of Condition(2)Net Amountsof LiabilitiesPresented inStatement ofConditionGross Amounts of Recognized Liabilities(1)Gross Amounts Offset in Statement of Condition(2)Net Amountsof LiabilitiesPresented inStatement ofConditionDerivatives:Interest-rate contracts$331$(59)$272
$345
$(19)
$326
Foreign exchangecontracts11,471(4,514)6,957
9,084(3,574)5,510
Other derivative contracts9Š9
9Š9
Cash collateral nettingŠ(979)(979)
Š(478)(478)
Total derivatives$11,811$(5,552)$6,259
$9,438$(4,071)$5,367
Other financial instruments:Repurchase agreements and securities lending(3)$45,273$(30,700)$14,573
$36,801$(23,809)$12,992
Total derivatives andother financial
instruments$57,084$(36,252)$20,832
$46,239$(27,880)$18,359
(1) Amounts include all transactions regardless of whether or not they are subject to an enforceable netting arrangement.(2) Amounts subject to netting arrangements which have been determined to be legally enforceable.(3) Included in the $14,573 million as of December 31, 2013 was $7,953 million of repurchase agreements and $6,620 million of collateral related to securities lending.  Included in the $12,992 million as of December 31, 2012 was $8,006 million of 
repurchase agreements and $4,986 million of collateral related to securities lending.  Repurchase agreements and collateral 
related to securities lending were recorded in securities sold under repurchase agreements and accrued expenses and other 
liabilities, respectively, in our consolidated statement of condition.  Refer to note 11 for additional information with respec
t to principal securities finance transactions.December 31, 2013December 31, 2012
Gross Amounts Not Offset 
in Statement of Condition(1)Gross Amounts Not Offset 
in Statement of Condition(1)(In millions)Net Amountof LiabilitiesPresented inStatement ofConditionCounterpartyNettingCollateralProvidedNet Amount(2)Net Amountof LiabilitiesPresented inStatement ofConditionCounterpartyNettingCollateralProvidedNet Amount(2)Derivatives$6,259$Š$(6)$6,253
$5,367$Š$Š$5,367
Repurchaseagreements
and securities
lending14,573(131)(13,036)1,406
12,992(126)(12,067)799
Total$20,832$(131)$(13,042)$7,659
$18,359$(126)$(12,067)$6,166
(1) Amounts subject to netting arrangements which have been determined to be legally enforceable.(2) Includes amounts secured by collateral not determined to be subject to enforceable netting arrangements.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
188Note 18.    Net Interest RevenueThe following table presents the components of interest revenue and interest expense, and related net interest revenue, for the years ended December 31:Years Ended December 31,201320122011
(In millions)Interest revenue:Deposits with banks$125
$141$149
Investment securities:U.S. Treasury and federal agencies706799775
State and political subdivisions250215221
Other investments1,3321,5521,493
Securities purchased under resale agreements455128
Loans and leases252253278
Other interest-earning assets432Total interest revenue2,7143,0142,946
Interest expense:Deposits93166220
Short-term borrowings607396
Long-term debt232222289
Other interest-bearing liabilities26158
Total interest expense411476613
Net interest revenue$2,303
$2,538$2,333
Note 19. Employee Benefits
State Street Bank and certain of its U.S. subsidiaries participate in a non-contributory, tax-qualified defined 
benefit pension plan. Since January 1, 2008, when the plan was amended, we no longer make employer 
contribution credits to the plan; employee account balances earn annual interest credits until the employee™s 

retirement. In addition to the defined benefit pension plan, we have non-qualified unfunded supplemental retirement 
plans, referred to as SERPs, that provide certain officers with defined pension benefits in excess of allowable 

qualified plan limits. Non-U.S. employees participate in local defined benefit plans. State Street Bank and certain of 
its U.S. subsidiaries participate in a post-retirement plan that provides health care and insurance benefits for certain 
retired employees.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
189The following tables present combined information for the U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit plans, and information for the post-retirement plan, as of the December 31 measurement date:  Primary U.S.and Non-U.S.DefinedBenefit PlansPost-RetirementPlan(In millions)2013201220132012
Benefit obligations:Beginning of year$1,129
$1,017
$132
$112
Service cost111186Interest cost434555Employee contributions11ŠŠPlan amendmentsŠ(2)
ŠŠAcquisitions and transfers1ŠŠŠActuarial losses (gains)(83)85(31)14Benefits paid(28)(36)(6)
(6)
Expenses paidŠ(1)
ŠŠPremiums paid(1)
ŠŠŠCurtailments(1)
ŠŠŠSettlements(2)
(1)
ŠŠSpecial termination benefitsŠŠŠ1Foreign currency translation610ŠŠEnd of year$1,076
$1,129
$108
$132
Plan assets at fair value:Beginning of year$1,075
$928
$Š$ŠActual return on plan assets5869ŠŠEmployer contributions810466Employee contributions11ŠŠAcquisitions and transfers1ŠŠŠBenefits paid(28)(36)(6)
(6)
Expenses paidŠ(1)
ŠŠPremiums paid(1)
ŠŠŠSettlements(2)
(1)
ŠŠForeign currency translation411ŠŠEnd of year$1,116
$1,075
$Š$ŠAccrued benefit expense:Funded status (plan assets less benefit obligations)$40
$(54)
$(108)
$(132)
Net accrued benefit expense$40
$(54)
$(108)
$(132)
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
190 Primary U.S.and Non-U.S.DefinedBenefit PlansPost-RetirementPlan(In millions)2013201220132012
Amounts recognized in consolidated statement ofcondition as of December 31:Non-current assets$124
$40
$Š$ŠCurrent liabilities(1)
(1)
(7)
(8)
Non-current liabilities(83)(93)(101)(124)Net accrued amount recognized in statement of condition$40
$(54)
$(108)
$(132)
Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensiveincome:Prior service credit$(1)
$Š$2$3Net loss(263)(365)(16)(49)Accumulated other comprehensive loss(264)(365)(14)(46)Cumulative employer contributions in excess of netperiodic benefit cost304311(94)(86)Net obligation recognized in consolidated statement ofcondition$40
$(54)
$(108)
$(132)
Accumulated benefit obligation$1,051
$1,105
$Š$ŠActuarial assumptions (U.S. plans):
Used to determine benefit obligations as of December 31:Discount rate4.75%3.75%4.75%3.75%Used to determine periodic benefit cost for the yearsended December 31:Discount rate3.75%4.50%3.75%4.50%Expected long-term rate of return on plan assets6.756.75ŠŠAssumed health care cost trend rates as of December 31:Cost trend rate assumed for next yearŠŠ7.95%8.08%Rate to which the cost trend rate is assumed todeclineŠŠ4.504.50Year that the rate reaches the ultimate trend rateŠŠ2029
2029The following table presents expected benefit payments for the next ten years:(In millions)Primary U.S.and Non-U.S.DefinedBenefit PlansNon-QualifiedSERPsPost-RetirementPlan2014$37$27$7
201537297
201639117
201738157
201830127
2019-20231895739
The accumulated benefit obligation for all of our U.S. defined benefit pension plans was $841 million and $947 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.
To develop the assumption of the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, we considered the 
historical returns and the future expectations for returns for each asset class, as well as the target asset allocation 
of the pension portfolio. This analysis resulted in the determination of the expected long-term rate of return on plan 

assets of 6.75% for the year ended December 31, 2013.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
191Plan Assets:
The primary purpose of the investment policy and strategy is to invest plan assets in a manner that provides for sufficient resources to be available to meet the plans™ benefit and expense obligations when due. The asset 

portfolio, together with contributions, is intended to provide adequate liquidity to make benefit payments when due 
while preserving principal and maximizing returns, given appropriate risk constraints. A secondary objective is to 

enhance the plans™ long-term viability through the generation of competitive returns that will limit the financial burden 

on State Street and contribute to our ability to maintain our retirement plans.Plan assets are managed solely in the interests of the participants and consistent with generally recognized fiduciary standards, including all applicable provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, or ERISA, 

and other applicable laws and regulations. Management believes that its investment policy satisfies the standards of 
prudence and diversification prescribed by ERISA. Plan assets are diversified across asset classes to achieve a 
balance between risk and return and between income and growth of assets through capital appreciation, to produce 
a prudently well-diversified portfolio.With respect to our U.S. pension plan, plan assets are primarily invested in pooled investment funds of State Street Bank. The measurement of the fair value of the participation units owned by the plans is based on the 

redemption value on the last business day of the plan year, where values are based on the fair value of the 

underlying assets in each fund. The net asset value of units of participation in other funds is based on the fair value 

of the underlying securities in each fund.Alternative investments are composed of investments in limited liability corporations and limited liability partnerships.  The fair value of these investments is measured by the fund managers, and represent the plans™ 

proportionate share of the estimated fair value of the underlying net assets of the limited liability corporations.The methods described above may produce a fair-value calculation that may not be indicative of net realizable value or be reflective of future fair values. Furthermore, while management believes that its valuation methods are 
appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to 

measure the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different fair-value measurement as of the 

reporting date.With respect to our U.K. pension plan, plan assets are invested in sub-funds of Managed Pension Funds Limited, a U.K.-incorporated insurance vehicle of which the ultimate parent company is State Street.  The fair value 

of these investments is measured based on the mid-market price of the underlying investments held by Managed 
Pension Funds Limited. This valuation method may produce a calculation that is not indicative of net realizable 

value or reflective of future fair values.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
192The following tables present, by level within the fair value hierarchy prescribed by GAAP, the plans™ assets 
measured at fair value on a recurring basis, and activity related to assets categorized in level 3, as of the dates and 
for the years indicated:   Fair-Value Measurements on a Recurring Basisas of December 31, 2013(In millions)Quoted Market Prices inActive Markets(Level 1)Pricing Methods withSignificant ObservableMarket Inputs(Level 2)Pricing Methodswith SignificantUnobservableMarket Inputs(Level 3)Total Net
Carrying Value
Assets:U.S. Pension Plan
Investments in pooled investment funds:Domestic large cap equity$Š$64$Š$64
Domestic small cap equityŠ15Š15
Developed international equitiesŠ80Š80
Emerging markets equityŠ23Š23
Investment grade fixed-incomeŠ498Š498
High-yield debtŠ39Š39
Real estate investment trustsŠ23Š23
Alternative investments (commingled fund)ŠŠ55
Alternative investments (fund of funds)ŠŠ2727
Private equityŠŠ22
Total U.S. Pension PlanŠ74234776
U.K. Pension PlanInvestments in pooled investment funds:Developed international equityŠ33Š33
U.K. fixed-incomeŠ181Š181
Emerging market indexŠ9Š9
Alternative investmentsŠŠ4343
Total U.K. Pension PlanŠ22343266
Other Non-U.S. Pension Plans (excluding U.K.)Insurance group annuity contractsŠŠ7070
Total Other Non-U.S. Pension Plans (ExcludingU.K.)ŠŠ7070
Total assets carried at fair value$Š$965$147$1,112
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
193Fair-Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable InputsYear Ended December 31, 2013U.S. Pension PlanU.K. Pension Plan
Non-U.S. Pension Plans(Excluding U.K.)(In millions)AlternativeInvestmentsPrivateEquityAlternativeInvestmentsInsurance groupannuity contractAssets:Fair value as of December 31, 2012$19$2$39$61

Purchases12Š313
SalesŠŠŠ(5)
Unrealized gains1Š11
Fair value as of December 31, 2013$32$2$43$70
 Fair-Value Measurements on a Recurring Basisas of December 31, 2012(In millions)Quoted Market Prices inActive Markets(Level 1)Pricing Methods withSignificant ObservableMarket Inputs(Level 2)Pricing Methodswith SignificantUnobservableMarket Inputs(Level 3)Total Net
Carrying Value
Assets:U.S. Pension Plan
Investments in pooled investment funds:Domestic large cap equity$Š$144$Š$144

Domestic small cap equityŠ16Š16

Developed international equitiesŠ80Š80

Emerging markets equityŠ42Š42

Investment grade fixed-incomeŠ390Š390

High-yield debtŠ32Š32

Real estate investment trustsŠ24Š24
Alternative investments (commingled fund)ŠŠ55

Alternative investments (fund of funds)ŠŠ1414

Private equityŠŠ22

U.S. money-market mutual fundsŠ7Š7

Total U.S. Pension PlanŠ73521756
U.K. Pension PlanInvestments in insurance vehicles:Developed international equityŠ30Š30

U.K. fixed-incomeŠ177Š177

Emerging market indexŠ9Š9
Alternative investmentsŠŠ3939

Total U.K. Pension PlanŠ21639255
Other Non-U.S. Pension Plans (excluding U.K.)Insurance group annuity contractsŠŠ6161

Total Other Non-U.S. Pension Plans (ExcludingU.K.)ŠŠ6161
Total assets carried at fair value$Š$951$121$1,072
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
194Fair-Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable InputsYear Ended December 31, 2012 U.S. Pension PlanU.K. Pension Plan
Non-U.S. Pension Plans(Excluding U.K.)(In millions)AlternativeInvestmentsPrivateEquityAlternativeInvestmentsInsurance groupannuity contractAssets:Fair value as of December 31, 2011$19$2$32$57

Purchases and sales, netŠŠ34

Unrealized gainsŠŠ4Š

Fair value as of December 31, 2012$19$2$39$61
 The plans™ investment strategies are intended to reduce the concentration risk of an adverse influence on 
investment values from the poor performance of a small number of individual investments through diversification of 
the plans' assets. The significant holdings of the plans are reviewed quarterly so that the plans do not exceed the 

allowable maximum amount per issuer. The plans are re-balanced monthly so that actual weights of the plan assets 

are within the allowable ranges set forth in the investment policy. The plans™ operating cash flows (benefit payments, 

expenses, contributions) are used to bring the weights back into line on a monthly basis. If these cash flows do not 
provide sufficient benefit, additional re-balancing is effected.
Expected employer contributions to the tax-qualified U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, SERPs, and post-retirement plan for 2014 are $7 million, $27 million and $7 million, respectively.
State Street has unfunded SERPs that provide certain officers with defined pension benefits in excess of 
qualified plan limits imposed by U.S. federal tax law. 
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
195The following table presents information for the SERPs for the years ended December 31: Non-Qualified SERPs(In millions)20132012
Benefit obligations:Beginning of year$172
$173
Service cost11Interest cost67Actuarial gain (loss)(15)13Benefits paid(2)
(2)
Settlements(8)
(20)End of year$154
$172
Accrued benefit expense:Funded status (plan assets less benefit obligations)$(154)
$(172)
Net accrued benefit expense$(154)
$(172)
Amounts recognized in consolidated statement of condition as of December 31:
Current liabilities$(27)
$(15)
Non-current liabilities(127)(157)Net accrued amount recognized in consolidated statement of condition$(154)
$(172)
Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income:Net loss$(36)
$(59)
Accumulated other comprehensive loss(36)(59)Cumulative employer contributions in excess of net periodic benefit cost(118)(113)Net obligation recognized in consolidated statement of condition$(154)
$(172)
Accumulated benefit obligation$154
$172
Actuarial assumptions:Assumptions used to determine benefit obligations and periodic benefit costs are consistentwith those described for the post-retirement plan, with the following exceptions:Rate of increase in future compensationŠSERPsŠ%Š%Rate of increase in future compensationŠexecutive SERPsŠ10.00%For those defined benefit plans that have accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the accumulated benefit obligations were $259 million and $1.05 billion, respectively, 

and the plan assets were $45 million and $810 million, respectively.  For those defined benefit plans that have 

projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the projected benefit 
obligations were $300 million and $1.08 billion, respectively, and the plan assets were $62 million and $814 million, 

respectively.
If trend rates for health care costs were increased by 1%, the post-retirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2013 would have increased 7%, and the aggregate expense for service and interest costs for 2013 
would have increased 11%. Conversely, if trend rates for health care costs were decreased by 1%, the post-

retirement benefit obligation as of December 31, 2013 would have decreased 6%, and the aggregate expense for 
service and interest costs for 2013 would have decreased 9%.  In addition, as part of recent corporate actions, a 
special termination benefit was provided to affected participants who were eligible for optional post-retirement 

medical coverage.The following table presents the actuarially determined expense for our U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit plans, post-retirement plan and SERPs for the years ended December 31:STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
196  Primary U.S. and Non-U.S.Defined Benefit PlansPost-RetirementPlanYears Ended December 31,201320122011201320122011

(In millions)Components of net periodic benefit cost:Service cost$11
$11$9
$8$6$6
Interest cost434547
556Assumed return on plan assets(63)(59)(58)
ŠŠŠAmortization of prior service costŠ(2)Š
ŠŠŠAmortization of net loss241712
111Net periodic benefit cost151210
141213
Settlements(1)
ŠŠŠŠŠCurtailments(1)
ŠŠŠŠŠSpecial termination benefitsŠŠŠŠ1ŠTotal expense$13
$12$10
$14
$13$13
Estimated amounts that will be amortized fromaccumulated other comprehensive income
over the next year:Net loss$(13)
$(24)$(17)
$Š$(2)$(1)
Estimated amortization$(13)
$(24)$(17)
$Š$(2)$(1)
 Non-Qualified SERPsYears Ended December 31,201320122011

(In millions)Components of net periodic benefit cost:Service cost$1$1$1
Interest cost678Amortization of net loss653Net periodic benefit cost131312
Settlements267Total expense$15
$19$19
Estimated amounts that will be amortized from accumulated othercomprehensive income over the next year:Net loss$(4)
$(6)$(5)
Estimated amortization$(4)
$(6)$(5)
Certain of our U.S. employees are eligible to contribute a portion of their pre-tax salary to a 401(k) savings plan, or post-tax Roth contributions, or both, up to the annual IRS limit. Our matching portion of these contributions 
is paid in cash, and we recorded related compensation and employee benefits expense in our consolidated 
statement of income of $61 million, $70 million, and $77 million in the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 
2011, respectively, in matching contributions. Effective April 1, 2012, our matching contribution in the U.S. was 

changed from 6% to 5% of employee contributions.  In addition, employees in certain non-U.S. offices participate in 

other local plans. We recorded related compensation and employee benefits expense related to these local plans of 

$66 million, $65 million, and $65 million in the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011.
We have a defined contribution supplemental executive retirement plan, referred to as a DC SERP, which 
provides for a discretionary contribution of cash and/or equity to certain executive officers. The amount is subject to 

certain vesting requirements as provided in the plan. We recorded compensation and employee benefits expense of 

$7 million, $11 million, and $10 million in the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively, in our 

consolidated statement of income related to this DC SERP.
Shares of common stock and interest in the savings plan may be acquired by eligible employees through the Employee Stock Ownership Plan, referred to as an ESOP. The ESOP is a non-leveraged plan. Employee benefits 
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
197expense is equal to the contribution specified by the plan formula and is composed of the cash contributed for the 
purchase of common stock on the open market or the fair value of the shares contributed from treasury stock. 
Dividends on shares held by the ESOP are charged to retained earnings, and shares are treated as outstanding for 

the calculation of earnings per common share.Note 20. Occupancy Expense and Information Systems and Communications Expense
Occupancy expense and information systems and communications expense include expense for depreciation of buildings, leasehold improvements, computer hardware and software, equipment, and furniture and fixtures.  
Total depreciation expense for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $401 million, $407 million 

and $408 million, respectively.
We lease 1,025,000 square feet at One Lincoln Street, our headquarters building located in Boston, 
Massachusetts, and a related underground parking garage, under 20-year, non-cancelable capital leases expiring in 

September 2023.  A portion of the lease payments is offset by subleases for approximately 129,000 square feet of 

the building.  In addition, we lease approximately 362,000 square feet at 20 Churchill Place, an office building 

located in the U.K., under a 20-year capital lease expiring in December 2028.  As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, 

an aggregate net book value of $646 million and $576 million, respectively, related to the above-described capital 

leases was recorded in premises and equipment, with the related liability recorded in long-term debt, in our 
consolidated statement of condition. Capital lease asset amortization is recorded in occupancy expense in our consolidated statement of income over the respective lease term. Lease payments are recorded as a reduction of the liability, with a portion recorded 

as imputed interest expense.  For the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, interest expense related to 

these capital lease obligations, reflected in net interest revenue, was $40 million, $42 million and $43 million, 
respectively.  As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, accumulated amortization of capital lease assets was $369 

million and $313 million, respectively.
We have entered into non-cancelable operating leases for premises and equipment.  Nearly all of these leases 
include renewal options.  Costs related to operating leases for office space are recorded in occupancy expense.  

Costs related to operating leases for equipment are recorded in information systems and communications expense.Total rental expense, net of sublease revenue, amounted to $224 million, $227 million and $232 million for the 
years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  Total rental expense was reduced by sublease 

revenue of $6 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 
$5 million for the year ended December 31, 2011.
The following table presents a summary of future minimum lease payments under non-cancelable capital and operating leases as of December 31, 2013.  Aggregate future minimum rental commitments have been reduced by 

aggregate sublease rental commitments of $59 million for capital leases and $14 million for operating leases.(In millions)CapitalLeasesOperatingLeasesTotal
2014$99$208$307
2015101161262
201684125209
201784108192
201885101186
Thereafter598220818
Total minimum lease payments1,051$923$1,974
Less amount representing interest payments(322)Present value of minimum lease payments$729
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
198Note 21.    Acquisition and Restructuring Costs
The following table presents net acquisition and restructuring costs recorded in the years ended December 31:  Years Ended December 31,201320122011
(In millions)Acquisition costs$76
$26$16
Restructuring charges, net28199253
Total acquisition and restructuring costs$104
$225$269
Acquisition Costs: Acquisition costs incurred in 2013 were related to previously disclosed acquisitions, mainly the 2012 GSAS and 2010 Intesa acquisitions. Acquisition costs incurred in 2012 of $66 million were mainly related to integration 

costs incurred in connection with the 2012 GSAS and 2010 Intesa acquisitions, and were partly offset by an 

indemnification benefit of $40 million for the assumption of an income tax liability related to the 2010 Intesa 
acquisition.  Acquisition costs incurred in 2011 totaled $71 million, and were mainly composed of integration costs 

associated with the 2011 Bank of Ireland Asset Management and 2010 Intesa and Mourant International Finance 

Administration acquisitions.  These acquisition costs were partially offset by an indemnification benefit of $55 million 

for the assumption of an income tax liability related to the 2010 Intesa acquisition.  The indemnification benefits of 

$40 million in 2012 and $55 million in 2011 were offset by corresponding income tax expense of $40 million in 2012 

and $55 million in 2011 in our consolidated statement of income.  
Restructuring Charges:Information with respect to our Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation program and 
our 2011 and 2012 expense control measures, including charges, employee reductions and aggregate activity in the 

related accruals, is provided in the two sections that follow.
Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation Program
 In November 2010, we announced a global multi-year Business Operations and Information Technology 
Transformation program.  The program includes operational, information technology and targeted cost initiatives, 

including plans related to reductions in both staff and occupancy costs.  To date, we have recorded aggregate 

restructuring charges of $381 million in our consolidated statement of income, composed of $156 million in 2010, 
$133 million in 2011, $67 million in 2012 and $25 million in 2013.
The charges related to the program included costs related to severance, benefits and outplacement services, as well as costs which resulted from actions taken to reduce our occupancy costs through the consolidation of 
leases and properties.  The charges also included costs related to information technology, including transition fees 

associated with the expansion of our use of third-party service providers associated with components of our 
information technology infrastructure and application maintenance and support. In 2010, in connection with the program, we initiated the involuntary termination of 1,400 employees, or approximately 5% of our global workforce, which we completed by the end of 2011.  In addition, in connection with 

our announcement in 2011 of the expansion of our use of third-party service providers associated with our 

information technology infrastructure and application maintenance and support, as well as the continued execution 
of the business operations transformation component of the program, we identified 1,340 additional involuntary 
terminations and role eliminations, including 376 in 2013.  As of December 31, 2013, we eliminated 1,278 of these 

positions.Expense Control MeasuresIn December 2011, in connection with expense control measures designed to calibrate our expenses to our 
outlook for our capital markets-facing businesses in 2012, we took two actions.  First, we withdrew from our fixed-
income trading initiative, in which we traded in fixed-income securities and derivatives as principal with our custody 
clients and other third-parties that trade in these securities and derivatives.  Second, we undertook other targeted 
staff reductions. As a result of these actions, we recorded aggregate pre-tax restructuring charges of $120 million in 

2011 and net pre-tax credit adjustments of $(1) million in 2012 in our consolidated statement of income.
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
199 The charges recorded in 2011 included costs related to severance, benefits and outplacement services with 
respect to both our withdrawal from our fixed-income initiative and the other targeted staff reductions; costs 

associated with fair-value adjustments to the initiative's trading portfolio resulting from our decision to withdraw from 
the initiative; and costs for asset and other write-offs related to asset write-downs and contract terminations.  In 

2011, in connection with the above-described employee-related actions, we identified 442 employees to be 

involuntarily terminated as their roles were eliminated.  As of December 31, 2013, we completed these reductions.
In December 2012, in connection with expense control measures designed to better align our expenses to our business strategy and related outlook for 2013, we identified additional targeted staff reductions.  As a result of 

these actions, we have recorded aggregate pre-tax restructuring charges of $133 million in 2012 and $3 million in 
2013 in our consolidated statement of income.  Employee-related costs included severance, benefits and 
outplacement services.  Costs for asset and other write-offs were primarily related to contract terminations.  We 

originally identified involuntary terminations and role eliminations of 960 employees (630 positions after 

replacements).  As of December 31, 2013, 782 positions were eliminated through voluntary and involuntary 

terminations.Aggregate Restructuring-Related Accrual Activity
 The following table presents aggregate activity associated with accruals that resulted from the charges associated with the Business Operations and Information Technology Transformation program and the 2011 and 

2012 expense control measures: (In millions)Employee-RelatedCostsReal EstateConsolidationInformationTechnologyCostsAsset andOtherWrite-OffsTotal
Balance as of December 31, 2012$195$49$5$13$262
Additional accruals for Business Operations and InformationTechnology Transformation program1313(1)Š25
Additional accruals for 2012 expense control measures(4)ŠŠ73
Payments and adjustments(154)(13)(4)(13)(184)
Balance as of December 31, 2013$50$49$Š$7$106
Note 22. Other Expenses
As a result of the 2008 Lehman Brothers bankruptcy, we had various claims against Lehman Brothers entities 
in bankruptcy proceedings in the U.S. and the U.K. We also had amounts asserted as owed, or return obligations, to 

Lehman Brothers entities. The various claims and amounts owed arose from transactions that existed at the time 

Lehman Brothers entered bankruptcy, including prime brokerage arrangements, foreign exchange transactions, 

securities lending arrangements and repurchase agreements. In 2011, we reached an agreement with certain 

Lehman Brothers estates in the U.S. to resolve the value of deficiency claims arising out of indemnified repurchase 
transactions in the U.S., and the bankruptcy court allowed those claims in the amount of $400 million.  In 2012, we reached an agreement to settle the claims against the Lehman Brothers estate in the U.K. related to the close-out of securities lending and repurchase arrangements. This settlement resulted in a return obligation 

for us and a certified claim against the Lehman Brothers estate, and resolved the contingent nature of our rights and 
obligations with the Lehman Brothers estate.In connection with our resolution of the indemnified repurchase and securities lending claims in the U.S. and the U.K., we recognized a credit of approximately $362 million in our consolidated statement of income in 2012.  
Both certified claims retained as part of the settlement agreements were subsequently sold at their respective fair 
values, resulting in an additional gain of approximately $10 million, which was also recorded in our consolidated 
statement of income in 2012.In 2013, we received aggregate distributions totaling approximately $186 million from the Lehman Brothers estates.  Of the aggregate distributions received, $101 million was applied to reduce remaining Lehman Brothers-
related assets, primarily prime brokerage claim-related receivables, recorded in our consolidated statement of 
condition; the remaining $85 million was recorded as an aggregate credit to other expenses in our consolidated 
statement of income.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
200Note 23. Income Taxes
The following table presents the components of income tax expense for the years ended December 31: (In millions)201320122011
Current:Federal$151
$153$49
State396554
Non-U.S.248262295
Total current expense438480398
Deferred:Federal70262134
State25268
Non-U.S.17(63)76
Total deferred expense112225218
Total income tax expense$550
$705$616
In the fourth quarter of 2013, we completed a multi-year tax data enhancement process, the final stages of which identified a reconciliation difference in our deferred tax accounts, and we determined that our deferred tax 

liabilities were overstated by $50 million and our deferred tax assets were understated by $21 million.  We 

evaluated the qualitative and quantitative effects of the resulting overstatement of income tax expense, and 

concluded that such overstatement did not have a material effect on any prior annual or quarterly consolidated 

financial statements.  Accordingly, in the fourth quarter of 2013, we recorded an adjustment in our consolidated 

statement of income to correct this difference, which resulted in an out-of-period income tax benefit of $71 million. 

This income tax benefit is reflected in the table above as a reduction of total deferred expense for 2013. The amounts for 2012 and 2011 presented in the table included income tax expense of $40 million and $55 
million, respectively, associated with indemnification benefits, recorded as offsets to acquisition costs, for the 

assumption of income tax liabilities related to the 2010 Intesa acquisition. Amounts of income tax expense (benefit) related to net gains (losses) from sales of investment securities were $6 million, $22 million and $55 million for 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  Pre-tax income attributable to our 

operations located outside the U.S. was approximately $1.25 billion, $1.11 billion and $1.23 billion for 2013, 2012 

and 2011, respectively.
Pre-tax earnings of our non-U.S. subsidiaries are subject to U.S. income tax when effectively repatriated.  As 
of December 31, 2013, we have chosen to indefinitely reinvest approximately $3.5 billion of earnings of certain of 
our non-U.S. subsidiaries.  No provision has been recorded for U.S. income taxes that could be incurred upon 
repatriation.  As of December 31, 2013, if such earnings had been repatriated to the U.S., we would have provided 

for approximately $690 million of additional income tax expense.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
201The following table presents significant components of our gross deferred tax assets and gross deferred tax liabilities as of December 31.  Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities recorded in our consolidated statement 
of condition are netted within the same tax jurisdiction.                                                                                                                    (In millions)20132012
Deferred tax assets:Unrealized losses on investment securities, net$421
$131
Deferred compensation(1)209175Defined benefit pension plan97155Restructuring charges and other reserves126172Real estate1820General business credits376Other5463Total deferred tax assets
 928792Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets(33)(28)Deferred tax assets, net of valuation allowance$895
$764
Deferred tax liabilities:Leveraged lease financing$359
$370
Fixed and intangible assets1,0731,099Non-U.S. earnings105118Foreign currency translation3556Other(2)4481Total deferred tax liabilities$1,616
$1,724
(1) Amount as of December 31, 2013 reflected an increase of $21 million associated with an out-of-period income tax benefit 
recorded in 2013. (2) Amount as of December 31, 2013 reflected a decrease of $50 million associated with an out-of-period income tax benefit 
recorded in 2013. Management considers the valuation allowance adequate to reduce the total deferred tax assets to an aggregate amount that will more likely than not be realized. Management has determined that a valuation allowance 
is not required for the remaining deferred tax assets because it is more likely than not that there is sufficient taxable 

income of the appropriate nature within the carryback and carryforward periods to realize these assets.  As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had deferred tax assets associated with tax credit carryforwards of $3 million and $76 million, respectively, which are presented in the table above.  The tax credit carryforwards expire in 

2033.  As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, we had deferred tax assets associated with non-U.S. and state loss 

carryforwards of $50 million and $45 million, respectively, included in ﬁotherﬂ in the table above. Of the total loss 

carryforwards of $50 million as of December 31, 2013, $33 million do not expire, and the remaining $17 million 
expire through 2031. STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
202The following table presents a reconciliation of the U.S. statutory income tax rate to our effective tax rate 
based on income before income tax expense for the years ended December 31:201320122011
U.S. federal income tax rate35.0%35.0%35.0%
Changes from statutory rate:
State taxes, net of federal benefit1.61.82.0
Tax-exempt income(3.7)(2.6)(2.9)
Tax credits(3.6)(2.8)(1.5)
Foreign tax differential(5.9)(5.5)(4.3)
Transactions related to investment securities
(1)ŠŠ(4.1)
Out-of-period income tax benefit(2)(2.7)ŠŠOther, net(.2)
(.4).1
Effective tax rate20.5%25.5%24.3%
(1) Amounts for 2011 represented the effect of discrete tax benefits attributable to costs incurred in terminating former conduit 
asset structures.(2) Excluding the impact of the out-of-period income tax benefit of $71 million described earlier in this note, our effective tax r
ate would have been 23.2%.The following table presents activity related to unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31:(In millions)20132012
Beginning balance$95
$125
Decrease related to agreements with tax authorities(4)
(45)Increase related to tax positions taken during current year102Increase related to tax positions taken during prior year5713Ending balance$158
$95
The amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would reduce income tax expense and our effective tax rate was $98 million as of December 31, 2013.  Unrecognized tax benefits do not include accrued 

interest of approximately $7 million and $2 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  It is reasonably 

possible that the unrecognized tax benefits will decrease by $5 million to $6 million within the next 12 months due to 
potential agreements covering outstanding refund claims. We recorded interest and penalties related to income taxes as a component of income tax expense.  Income 
tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2013 included related interest and penalties of approximately $3 

million. Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2012 included a refund, net of related interest and penalties of approximately $12 million. Income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2011 included related 

interest and penalties of approximately $10 million. We are presently under audit by a number of tax authorities. The earliest tax year open to examination in 
jurisdictions where we have material operations is 2009. Management believes that we have sufficient accrued 

liabilities as of December 31, 2013 for tax exposures and related interest expense.STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
203Note 24.    Earnings Per Common ShareThe following table presents the computation of basic and diluted earnings per common share for the years ended December 31:(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)201320122011
Net income$2,136
$2,061$1,920
Less:Preferred stock dividends(1)(26)(29)(20)
Dividends and undistributed earnings allocated to participating securities(2)(8)
(13)(18)
Net income available to common shareholders$2,102
$2,019$1,882
Average common shares outstanding (in thousands):Basic average common shares446,245474,458492,598
Effect of dilutive securities: common stock options and common stock awards8,9106,6713,474
Diluted average common shares455,155
481,129496,072
Anti-dilutive securities(3)1,8555,6192,382
Earnings per Common Share:Basic$4.71
$4.25$3.82
Diluted(4)4.624.203.79
(1) Amount for 2012 included $8 million related to Series C preferred stock issued in August 2012.  Remaining amount for 2012 and a
mount for 2011 were related to Series A preferred stock, which was redeemed in October 2012.
(2) Represented the portion of net income available to common equity allocated to participating securities; participating securities, composed of unvested restricted stock and director stock awards, contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends during the vesting period on a basis equivalent to dividends paid to common shareholders.(3) Represented common stock options and other equity-based awards outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted average shares, because their effect was anti-dilutive.
(4) Calculations reflect allocation of earnings to participating securities using the two-class method, as this computation is more dilutive than the treasury stock method.Note 25.    Line of Business InformationWe have two lines of business: Investment Servicing and Investment Management.  Given our services and 
management organization, the results of operations for these lines of business are not necessarily comparable with 
those of other companies, including companies in the financial services industry.  
Investment Servicing provides services for U.S. mutual funds, collective investment funds and other investment pools, corporate and public retirement plans, insurance companies, foundations and endowments 
worldwide. Products include custody; product- and participant-level accounting; daily pricing and administration; 
master trust and master custody; record-keeping; cash management; foreign exchange, brokerage and other 
trading services; securities finance; deposit and short-term investment facilities; loans and lease financing; 
investment manager and alternative investment manager operations outsourcing; and performance, risk and 
compliance analytics to support institutional investors. We provide shareholder services, which include mutual fund 

and collective investment fund shareholder accounting, through 50%-owned affiliates, Boston Financial Data 

Services, Inc. and the International Financial Data Services group of companies.Investment Management, through SSgA, provides a broad array of investment management, investment research and investment advisory services to corporations, public funds and other sophisticated investors.  SSgA 

offers strategies for managing financial assets, including passive and active, such as enhanced indexing, using 

quantitative and fundamental methods for both U.S. and global equities and fixed-income securities.  SSgA also 

offers exchange-traded funds, or ETFs, such as the SPDR
® ETF brand.  Our investment servicing strategy is to focus on total client relationships and the full integration of our products and services across our client base through cross-selling opportunities. In general, our clients will use a 
combination of services, depending on their needs, rather than one product or service. For instance, a custody 
client may purchase securities finance and cash management services from different business units. Products and 
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
204services that we provide to our clients are parts of an integrated offering to these clients. We price our products and 

services on the basis of overall client relationships and other factors; as a result, revenue may not necessarily 
reflect the stand-alone market price of these products and services within the business lines in the same way it 
would for separate business entities.Generally, approximately 70% to 75% of our consolidated total revenue (fee revenue from investment 
servicing and investment management, as well as trading services and securities finance activities) is generated by 
these two business lines. The remaining 25% to 30% is composed of processing fees and other revenue, net 

interest revenue, which is largely generated by our investment of client deposits, short-term borrowings and long-
term debt in a variety of assets, and net gains (losses) related to investment securities. These other revenue types 

are generally fully allocated to, or reside in, Investment Servicing and Investment Management.Revenue and expenses are directly charged or allocated to our lines of business through management information systems. Assets and liabilities are allocated according to policies that support management™s strategic 

and tactical goals.  Capital is allocated based on the relative risks and capital requirements inherent in each 
business line, along with management judgment.  Capital allocations may not be representative of the capital that 
might be required if these lines of business were separate business entities.The following table provides a summary of our line of business results for the periods indicated.  The ﬁOtherﬂ 
column for 2013 included net acquisition and restructuring costs of $104 million; certain provisions for litigation 
exposure and other costs of $65 million; and severance costs associated with reorganization of certain non-U.S. 
operations of $11 million.  The ﬁOtherﬂ column for 2012 included the net realized loss from the sale of all of our 

Greek investment securities of $46 million; a benefit related to claims associated with the 2008 Lehman Brothers 
bankruptcy of $362 million; certain provisions for litigation exposure and other costs of $118 million; and acquisition 

and restructuring costs of $225 million.  The ﬁOtherﬂ column for 2011 included acquisition and restructuring costs of 

$269 million.  The amounts in the ﬁOtherﬂ columns were not allocated to State Street's business lines. Results for 

2012 reflect reclassifications, for comparative purposes, related to management changes in methodologies 
associated with allocations of capital and expenses reflected in results for 2013.  Results for 2011 were not adjusted 

for these reclassifications.InvestmentServicingInvestmentManagementOtherTotal
Years Ended
December 31,201320122011201320122011201320122011201320122011
(Dollars in millions,
except where 
otherwise noted)Fee revenue:
Servicing fees$4,819
$4,414$4,382
$Š$Š$Š
$Š$Š$Š
$4,819
$4,414$4,382
Management feesŠŠŠ1,106993917
ŠŠŠ1,106993917
Trading services9949121,131
679889
ŠŠŠ1,0611,0101,220
Securities finance324363333
354245
ŠŠŠ359405378
Processing fees andother238259284
7713
ŠŠŠ245266297
Total fee revenue6,3755,9486,130
1,2151,1401,064
ŠŠŠ7,5907,0887,194
Net interest revenue2,2212,4642,231
8274102
ŠŠŠ2,3032,5382,333
Gains (losses) relatedto investment
securities, net(9)6967
ŠŠŠŠ(46)Š
(9)2367
Total revenue8,587
8,4818,428
1,2971,2141,166
Š(46)Š
9,8849,6499,594
Provision for loanlosses6(3)Š
ŠŠŠŠŠŠ6(3)Š
Total expenses6,176
6,0415,890
836864899
180(19)269
7,1926,8867,058
Income beforeincome tax expense$2,405
$2,443$2,538
$461
$350$267
$(180)
$(27)$(269)
$2,686
$2,766$2,536
Pre-tax margin28%29%30%
36%29%23%
27%29%26%
Average assets(in billions)$203.24
$190.09$170.45
$3.76
$3.72$4.36
$207.00
$193.81$174.81
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
205Note 26.    Non-U.S. Activities
We generally define our non-U.S. activities as those revenue-producing business activities that arise from 
clients domiciled outside the U.S.  Due to the integrated nature of our business, precise segregation of our U.S. and 
non-U.S. activities is not possible. Subjective estimates and other judgments are applied to determine the financial 
results and assets related to our non-U.S. activities, including our application of funds transfer pricing, our asset-
and-liability management policies and our allocation of certain indirect corporate expenses.  Interest expense 
allocations are based on our internal funds transfer pricing methodology. 
The following table presents our non-U.S. financial results for the years ended December 31.  Results for 2012 and 2011 reflect reclassifications associated with tax transfer pricing reflected in results for 2013.  Results for 2011 

reflect changes in methodology associated with funds transfer pricing and expense allocation reflected in results for 
2012. (In millions)201320122011
Total fee revenue$3,119
$2,917$3,004
Net interest revenue1,191953966
Gains (losses) related to investment securities, net(11)(40)(25)
Total revenue4,2993,8303,945
Expenses3,1303,0133,089
Income before income taxes1,169817856
Income tax expense289204218
Net income$880
$613$638
Gains (losses) related to investment securities, net, for the year ended December 31, 2012 included a loss of $46 million from the sale of all of our Greek investment securities (refer to note 4). The following table presents the significant components of our non-U.S. assets as of December 31, based on the domicile of the underlying counterparties:(In millions)20132012
Interest-bearing deposits with banks$9,584
$20,665
Investment securities31,52228,976Other assets16,77813,441Total non-U.S. assets$57,884
$63,082
Note 27. Parent Company Financial Statements
The following tables present the financial statements of the parent company without consolidation of its banking and non-banking subsidiaries, as of and for the years ended December 31:STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
206STATEMENT OF INCOME - PARENT COMPANY
Years Ended December 31,201320122011
(In millions)   Cash dividends from consolidated banking subsidiary$1,694
$1,785$Š
Cash dividends from consolidated non-banking subsidiaries andunconsolidated entities2506860
Other, net353834
Total revenue1,9791,89194
Interest expense169163203
Other expenses888560
Total expenses257248263
Income tax benefit(84)(63)(125)
Income (loss) before equity in undistributed income of consolidatedsubsidiaries and unconsolidated entities1,8061,706(44)
Equity in undistributed income of consolidated subsidiaries andunconsolidated entities:Consolidated banking subsidiary2371731,773
Consolidated non-banking subsidiaries and unconsolidated entities93182191
Net income$2,136
$2,061$1,920
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
207STATEMENT OF CONDITION - PARENT COMPANY
As of December 31,20132012
(In millions)  Assets:Interest-bearing deposits with consolidated banking subsidiary$4,419
$3,799
Trading account assets216155Investment securities available for sale3128Investments in subsidiaries:Consolidated banking subsidiary19,98519,805Consolidated non-banking subsidiaries2,6172,563Unconsolidated entities272458Notes and other receivables from:Consolidated banking subsidiary1,528746Consolidated non-banking subsidiaries and unconsolidated entities256258Other assets327294Total assets$29,651
$28,106
Liabilities:Commercial paper$1,819
$2,318
Accrued expenses and other liabilities447313Long-term debt7,0074,606Total liabilities9,2737,237Shareholders™ equity20,37820,869Total liabilities and shareholders™ equity$29,651
$28,106
STATE STREET CORPORATION
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
208STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS - PARENT COMPANY
Years Ended December 31,201320122011
(In millions)   Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities$2,296
$2,706$(571)
Investing Activities:Net decrease (increase) in interest-bearing deposits with consolidatedbanking subsidiary(620)1,115144
Investments in consolidated banking and non-banking subsidiaries(1,100)(68)(648)
Sale or repayment of investment in consolidated banking and non-bankingsubsidiaries322839
Business acquisitionsŠ(2)(51)
Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities(1,688)1,073(516)
Financing Activities:Net decrease in short-term borrowingsŠ(500)Š
Net decrease in commercial paper(499)(66)(415)
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt, net of issuance costs2,485Š1,986
Payments for long-term debtŠ(1,750)Š
Proceeds from issuance of preferred stock, net of issuance costsŠ488500
Proceeds from exercises of common stock options1215349
Purchases of common stock(2,040)(1,440)(675)
Repurchases of common stock for employee tax withholding(189)(101)(63)
Payments for cash dividends(486)(463)(295)
Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities(608)(3,779)1,087
Net changeŠŠŠCash and due from banks at beginning of yearŠŠŠCash and due from banks at end of year$Š$Š$Š
209STATISTICAL DISCLOSURE BY BANK HOLDING COMPANIES
Distribution of Average Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders™ Equity; Interest Rates and Interest Differential 
(Unaudited)The following table presents consolidated average statements of condition and net interest revenue for the years indicated. Years Ended December 31,201320122011
(Dollars in millions; fullytaxable-equivalent basis)Average
BalanceInterest
Average
RateAverage
BalanceInterest
Average
RateAverage
BalanceInterest
Average
RateAssets:Interest-bearing deposits with U.S. banks$15,858$40.25%
$9,305$25.26%$
9,505$23.25%Interest-bearing deposits with non-U.S.banks13,08885.65
17,518116.6610,736
1261.17Securities purchased under resaleagreements5,76645.77
7,24351.71
4,68628
.61Trading account assets748ŠŠ
651ŠŠ2,013Š
ŠInvestment securities:U.S. Treasury and federal agencies
(1)33,0037062.14
34,5768002.3132,517
7752.38 State and political subdivisions(1)8,6373914.53
7,346338
4.606,875347
5.05Other investments76,0561,3321.75
71,9881,5522.1663,683
1,4932.34Loans12,6602151.70
10,4042112.0310,834
2222.05Lease financing(1)1,121383.43
1,206423.54
1,34658
4.28Other interest-earning assets11,1644.04
7,3783.04
5,4622.03
Total interest-earning assets
(1)178,1012,8561.60
167,6153,1381.88147,657
3,0742.08Cash and due from banks3,7473,8113,436
Other assets25,18222,38423,665
Total assets$207,030
$193,810$174,758
Liabilities and shareholders™ equity:Interest-bearing deposits:Time$2,504$6.23%
$7,245$16.17%$
3,626$11.30%Savings6,3584.07
2,0883.15
423Š
ŠNon-U.S.100,39183.08
89,059147.1684,011
209.25Total interest-bearing deposits109,25393.14
98,392166.1788,060
220.25Securities sold under repurchaseagreements8,4361.01
7,6971.01
9,04010
.11Federal funds purchased298ŠŠ
7841.09
845Š
ŠOther short-term borrowings3,785591.57
4,676711.52
5,13486
1.67Long-term debt8,4152322.75
7,008222
3.178,966289
3.22Other interest-bearing liabilities6,45726.40
5,89815.26
3,5358.24
Total interest-bearing liabilities136,644411.30
124,455476.39115,580
613.53Noninterest-bearing deposits:Special time7691,203691
Demand34,72534,85024,847
Non-U.S.(2)800459387
Other liabilities13,56112,66013,890
Shareholders™ equity20,53120,18319,363
Total liabilities and shareholders™ equity$207,030
$193,810$174,758
Net interest revenue$2,445
$2,662$2,461Excess of rate earned over rate paid1.30%
1.49%1.55%
Net interest margin(3)1.371.591.67
(1) Fully taxable-equivalent revenue is a method of presentation in which the tax savings achieved by investing in tax-exempt inve
stment securities and certain leases are included in interest revenue with a corresponding charge to income tax expense. This method facilitates the comparison of the p
erformance of these assets.  The 
adjustments are computed using a federal income tax rate of 35%, adjusted for applicable state income taxes, net of the related federal tax benefit. The fully taxable-
equivalent adjustments included in interest revenue presented above were $142 million, $124 million and $128 million for the ye
ars ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and were substantially related to tax-exempt securities (state and political subdivisions).
(2) Non-U.S. noninterest-bearing deposits were $714 million, $330 million and $194 million as of December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011,
 respectively.
(3) Net interest margin is calculated by dividing fully taxable-equivalent net interest revenue by average total interest-earning 
assets.210The following table summarizes changes in fully taxable-equivalent interest revenue and interest expense due to changes in volume of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, and due to changes in interest 
rates. Changes attributed to both volumes and rates have been allocated based on the proportion of change in 
each category.
Years Ended December 31,2013 Compared to 20122012 Compared to 2011
(In millions; fullytaxable-equivalent basis)Change inVolumeChange inRateNet (Decrease)IncreaseChange inVolume
Change inRateNet (Decrease)IncreaseInterest revenue related to:Interest-bearing deposits with U.S.banks$17$(2)$15
$Š$2$2
Interest-bearing deposits with non-U.S. banks(29)(2)(31)
79(89)(10)
Securities purchased under resaleagreements(10)4(6)
16723
Investment securities:U.S. Treasury and federalagencies(36)(58)(94)
49(24)25
State and political subdivisions59(6)53
24(33)(9)
Other investments88(308)(220)
195(136)59
Loans46(42)4
(9)(2)(11)
Lease financing(3)(1)(4)
(7)(9)(16)
Other interest-earning assets2(1)1
1Š1
Total interest-earning assets134(416)(282)
348(284)64
Interest expense related to:
Deposits:Time(8)(2)(10)
16(11)5
Savings6(5)1
Š33
Non-U.S.18(82)(64)
12(74)(62)
Securities sold under repurchaseagreementsŠŠŠ
(2)(7)(9)
Federal funds purchasedŠ(1)(1)
1Š1
Other short-term borrowings(14)2(12)
(8)(7)(15)
Long-term debt45(35)10
(63)(4)(67)
Other interest-bearing liabilities11011
617
Total interest-bearing liabilities48(113)(65)
(38)(99)(137)
Net interest revenue$86$(303)$(217)
$386$(185)$201
211
Quarterly Summarized Financial Information (Unaudited) 2013 Quarters2012 Quarters
(Dollars and shares in millions,except per share amounts)FourthThirdSecondFirstFourthThirdSecondFirst
Total fee revenue$1,879$1,883$1,971$1,857
$1,806$1,719$1,778$1,785
Interest revenue684643700687
733730786765
Interest expense9997104111
111111114140
Net interest revenue585546596576
622619672625
Gains (losses) related toinvestment securities, netŠ(4)(7)2
2118(27)11
Total revenue2,4642,4252,5602,435
2,4492,3562,4232,421
Provision for loan losses6ŠŠŠ(2)Š(1)Š
Total expenses1,8461,7221,7981,826
1,8641,4151,7721,835
Income before income taxexpense612703762609
587941652586
Income tax expense59163183145
117267162159
Net income$553$540$579$464
$470$674$490$427
Net income available to commonshareholders$545$531$571$455
$468$654$480$417
Earnings per common share(1):      Basic$1.25$1.20$1.26$1.00
$1.02$1.39$1.00$.86
     Diluted1.221.171.24.98
1.001.36.98.85
Average common sharesoutstanding:     Basic436443452454
459472481485
     Diluted445452461463
467480489490
     Dividends per common share$.26$.26$.26$.26
$.24$.24$.24$.24
Common stock price:     High$73.63$71.27$68.18$60.65
$47.30$45.09$47.13$47.20
     Low64.2564.9254.5747.71
41.0938.9539.2738.21
     Closing73.3965.7565.2159.09
47.0141.9644.6445.50
__________________________(1) Basic earnings per common share for full-year 2012 do not equal the sum of the four quarters for each year.  
Diluted earnings per common share for full-year 2013 and full-year 2012 do not equal the sum of the four quarters 
for each year.
212ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL 
DISCLOSURENone.ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES
DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES; CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL 
REPORTING
State Street has established and maintains disclosure controls and procedures that are designed to ensure that material information related to State Street and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis required to be disclosed 
in its reports filed or submitted under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized, and 

reported within the time periods specified in the SEC's rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated 
and communicated to State Street's management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, 

as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. For the quarter ended December 31, 2013, 

State Street's management carried out an evaluation, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief 

Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of State Street's disclosure controls and 

procedures. Based on the evaluation of these disclosure controls and procedures, the Chief Executive Officer and 

Chief Financial Officer concluded that State Street's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of 

December 31, 2013. State Street has also established and maintains internal control over financial reporting as a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated 
financial statements for external purposes in conformity with GAAP.  In the ordinary course of business, State Street 

routinely enhances its internal controls and procedures for financial reporting by either upgrading its current 
systems or implementing new systems. Changes have been made and may be made to State Street's internal 
controls and procedures for financial reporting as a result of these efforts. During the quarter ended December 31, 

2013, no change occurred in State Street's internal control over financial reporting that has materially affected, or is 

reasonably likely to materially affect, State Street's internal control over financial reporting. 
INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING
Management™s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting
The management of State Street is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements and other financial information contained in this Form 10-K. Management is also responsible for 
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Management has designed business 
processes and internal controls and has also established and is responsible for maintaining a business culture that 
fosters financial integrity and accurate reporting. To these ends, management maintains a comprehensive system of 

internal controls intended to provide reasonable assurances regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the 
preparation of the consolidated financial statements of State Street in conformity with GAAP.  State Street's 

accounting policies and internal control over financial reporting, established and maintained by management, are 
under the general oversight of State Street's Board of Directors, including the Board's Examining & Audit 

Committee. Management has made a comprehensive review, evaluation and assessment of State Street's internal control 
over financial reporting as of December 31, 2013. The standard measures adopted by management in making its 

evaluation are the measures in the Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring 
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (1992 framework) (the ﬁCOSO criteriaﬂ). 
Based on its review and evaluation, management concluded that State Street's internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2013, and that State Street's internal control over financial reporting as 

of that date had no material weaknesses. Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, which has audited and reported on the 
consolidated financial statements contained in this Form 10-K, has issued its written attestation report on its 
assessment of State Street's internal control over financial reporting, which follows this report. 213Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
THE SHAREHOLDERS AND BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF
STATE STREET CORPORATION
We have audited State Street Corporation's (the ﬁCorporationﬂ) internal control over financial reporting as of 
December 31, 2013, based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework issued by the 
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (1992 framework) (the ﬁCOSO criteriaﬂ). 

State Street Corporation's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial 

reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the 

accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express 
an opinion on the Corporation's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 
(United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about 

whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included 

obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness 
exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, 

and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit 

provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance 
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting 

includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, 
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable 
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made 
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable 
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's 
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that 

controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the 
policies or procedures may deteriorate. In our opinion, State Street Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over 
financial reporting as of December 31, 2013, based on the COSO criteria. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 
(United States), the consolidated statement of condition of State Street Corporation as of December 31, 2013 and 
2012, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in shareholders' equity 
and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2013 and our report dated 
February 21, 2014 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.           /s/ Ernst & Young LLP 
Boston, Massachusetts February 21, 2014 214ITEM 9B.     OTHER INFORMATION
Not applicable.PART III
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Information concerning our directors will appear in our Proxy Statement for the 2014 Annual Meeting of 
Shareholders, to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A on or before April 30, 2014, referred to as the 2014 Proxy 

Statement, under the caption ﬁElection of Directors.ﬂ  Information concerning compliance with Section 16(a) of the 
Exchange Act will appear in our 2014 Proxy Statement under the caption ﬁSection 16(a) Beneficial Ownership 

Reporting Compliance.ﬂ  Information concerning our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers and our Examining 

& Audit Committee will appear in our 2014 Proxy Statement under the caption ﬁCorporate Governance at State 

Street.ﬂ  Such information is incorporated herein by reference. Information about our executive officers is included under Part I. 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
Information in response to this item will appear in our 2014 Proxy Statement under the caption ﬁExecutive Compensation.ﬂ Such information is incorporated herein by reference.ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND 
RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
Information concerning security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management will appear in our 2014 Proxy Statement under the caption ﬁSecurity Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.ﬂ 
Such information is incorporated herein by reference. RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
The following table presents the number of outstanding common stock awards, options, warrants and rights granted by State Street to participants in our equity compensation plans, as well as the number of securities 
available for future issuance under these plans, as of December 31, 2013.  The table provides this information 

separately for equity compensation plans that have and have not been approved by shareholders.  Shares 
presented in the table and in the footnotes following the table are stated in thousands of shares.    (Shares in thousands)(a)Number of securitiesto be issuedupon exercise ofoutstandingoptions,warrants and rights(b)Weighted-average
exercise price ofoutstandingoptions,warrants and rights(1)(c)Number of securitiesremaining available forfuture issuance underequity compensationplans (excludingsecurities reflectedin column (a))Plan category:Equity compensation plans approvedby shareholders19,982(2)$68.4522,096
Equity compensation plans notapproved by shareholders24(3)ŠTotal20,00622,096
(1) Excludes deferred stock awards and performance awards (for which there is no exercise price).(2) Consists of 15,094 shares subject to deferred stock awards, 337 shares subject to stock options, 2,327 stock appreciation rights, or SARs, and 2,224 shares subject to performance awards (assuming payout at 100% for all awards regarding which 
performance is uncertain).(3) Consists of shares subject to deferred stock awards.215Individual directors who are not our employees have received stock awards and cash retainers, both of which may be deferred. Directors may elect to receive shares of our common stock in place of cash. If payment is in the 
form of common stock, the number of shares is determined by dividing the approved cash amount by the closing 
price on the date of the annual shareholders' meeting. All deferred shares, whether stock awards or common stock 

received in place of cash retainers, are increased to reflect dividends paid on the common stock and, for certain 
directors, may include share amounts in respect of an accrual under a terminated retirement plan. Directors may 
elect to defer 50% or 100% of cash or stock awards until a date that they specify, usually after termination of service 

on the Board. The deferral may also be paid in either a lump sum or in installments over a two- to ten-year period. 

Stock awards totaling 194,040 shares of common stock were outstanding as of December 31, 2013; awards made 
through June 30, 2003, totaling 23,606 shares outstanding as of December 31, 2013, have not been approved by 
shareholders. There are no other equity compensation plans under which our equity securities are authorized for 

issuance that have been adopted without shareholder approval. Awards of stock made or retainer shares paid to 

individual directors after June 30, 2003 have been or will be made under our 1997 or 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, 
both of which were approved by shareholders.ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
Information concerning certain relationships and related transactions and director independence will appear in our 2014 Proxy Statement under the caption ﬁCorporate Governance at State Street.ﬂ Such information is 
incorporated herein by reference.ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES
Information concerning principal accounting fees and services and the Examining & Audit Committee's pre-
approval policies and procedures will appear in our 2014 Proxy Statement under the caption ﬁExamining and Audit 

Committee Matters.ﬂ Such information is incorporated herein by reference.PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
(A)(1) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

The following consolidated financial statements of State Street are included in Item 8 hereof: 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
Consolidated Statement of Income - Years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income - Years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011

Consolidated Statement of Condition - As of December 31, 2013 and 2012 

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity - Years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 

2011 

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows - Years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (A)(2) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 

Certain schedules to the consolidated financial statements have been omitted if they were not required by Article 9 of Regulation S-X or if, under the related instructions, they were inapplicable, or the information was 
contained elsewhere herein. (A)(3) EXHIBITS 
The exhibits listed in the Exhibit Index following the signature page of this Form 10-K are filed herewith or are incorporated herein by reference to other SEC filings. 216SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirement of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has 
duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, on February 21, 2014, hereunto duly 
authorized. STATE STREET CORPORATIONBy/s/ M
ICHAEL W. B
ELLMICHAEL W. BELL,Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
By/s/ JAMES J. MALERBAJAMES J. MALERBA,Executive Vice President,
Corporate Controller and
Chief Accounting Officer
 Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on 
February 21, 2014 by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.OFFICERS:/s/ JOSEPH L. HOOLEY /s/ M
ICHAEL W. B
ELLJOSEPH L. HOOLEY, MICHAEL W. BELL,
Chairman, President and Chief ExecutiveOfficer; Director Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
  /s/ JAMES J. MALERBA
 JAMES J. MALERBA,
 Executive Vice President,
Corporate Controller and
Chief Accounting Officer
DIRECTORS:
/s/ JOSEPH L. HOOLEY  JOSEPH L. HOOLEY 
/s/ JOSE E. A
LMEIDAJOSE E. ALMEIDA
/s/ KENNETT F. B
URNES /s/ R
OBERT
 S. KAPLANKENNETT F. BURNES ROBERT S. KAPLAN

/s/ PETER COYM /s/ R
ICHARD P. S
ERGELPETER COYM RICHARD P. SERGEL

/s/ PATRICK
 de SAINT-AIGNAN /s/ R
ONALD L. SKATES
PATRICK de SAINT-AIGNAN RONALD L. SKATES

/s/ AMELIA C. FAWCETT
 /s/ G
REGORY
 L. SUMMEAMELIA C. FAWCETT GREGORY L. SUMME

/s/ LINDA A. H
ILL /s/ T
HOMAS J. WILSONLINDA A. HILL THOMAS J. WILSON
217EXHIBIT INDEX *3.1Restated Articles of Organization, as amended (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to State Street's Registration
Statement on Form S-8 filed with the SEC on August 31, 2012 and incorporated herein by
reference)*3.2By-Laws, as amended (filed as Exhibit 3.3 to State Street™s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended June 30, 2009 filed with the SEC on August 10, 2009 and incorporated
herein by reference)*4.1The description of State Street™s Common Stock is included in State Street™s Registration
Statement on Form 8-A, as filed on January 18, 1995 and March 7, 1995 (filed with the SEC on
January 18, 1995 and March 7, 1995 and incorporated herein by reference)*4.2Deposit Agreement, dated August 21, 2012, among State Street Corporation, American Stock
Transfer & Trust Company, LLC and the holders from time to time of depositary receipts (filed
as Exhibit 4.1 to State Street's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 21,
2012 and incorporated herein by reference)(Note: None of the instruments defining the rights of holders of State Street™s outstanding long-term debt are in respect of indebtedness in excess of 10% of the total assets of State Street
and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. State Street hereby agrees to furnish to the SEC
upon request a copy of any other instrument with respect to long-term debt of State Street and
its subsidiaries.)*10.1ƒState Street™s Management Supplemental Retirement Plan Amended and Restated, as
amended (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to State Street's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2012 filed with the SEC on February 22, 2013 and incorporated herein byreference)*10.2ƒState Street™s Executive Supplemental Retirement Plan (formerly ﬁState Street Supplemental
Defined Benefit Pension Plan for Executive Officersﬂ) Amended and Restated, as amended*10.3ƒSupplemental Cash Incentive Plan, as amended, a the form of award agreement thereunder

*10.4ƒForms of Amended and Restated Employment Agreements entered into with each of Joseph L.
Hooley, Joseph C. Antonellis, James S. Phalen, Michael Rogers and Edward J. Resch (filed as
Exhibit 10.3 to State Street™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2009 filed with the SEC on February 22, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference)*10.5ƒEmployment Agreement entered into with Michael W. Bell dated June 17, 2013
*10.6ƒState Street™s Executive Compensation Trust Agreement dated December 6, 1996 (Rabbi Trust)
(filed as Exhibit 10.5 to State Street™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2008 filed with the SEC on February 27, 2009 and incorporated herein by
reference)*10.7ƒState Street™s 1997 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended, and forms of awards and agreements
thereunder (filed as Exhibit 10.6 to State Street™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2008 filed with the SEC on February 27, 2009 and incorporated herein by
reference)*10.8ƒState Street™s 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended, and forms of award agreements
thereunder*10.9ƒState Street™s 2006 Senior Executive Annual Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to State
Street™s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010 filed with the
SEC on May 7, 2010 and incorporated herein by reference)*10.10ƒState Street™s Management Supplemental Savings Plan, Amended and Restated, as amended
(filed as Exhibit 10.10 to State Street's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2012 filed with the SEC on February 22, 2013 and incorporated herein byreference)*10.11ƒDeferred Compensation Plan for Directors of State Street Corporation, Restated January 1,
2008, as amended (filed as Exhibit 10.11 to State Street's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2012 filed with the SEC on February 22, 2013 and incorporated
herein by reference)218*10.12ƒDeferred Compensation Plan for Directors of State Street Corporation, Restated January 1,
2007, as amended (filed as Exhibit 10.12 to State Street's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2011 filed with the SEC on February 27, 2012 and incorporated
herein by reference)*10.13ƒDescription of compensation arrangements for non-employee directors

*10.14ƒMemorandum of agreement of employment of Edward J. Resch, accepted October 16, 2002
(filed as Exhibit 10.13 to State Street™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2008 filed with the SEC on February 27, 2009 and incorporated herein byreference)*10.15ƒLetter Agreement with Scott F. Powers dated April 1, 2008 (filed as Exhibit 10.15 to State
Street's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 filed with the SEC
on February 28, 2011 and incorporated herein by reference)*10.16ƒLetter Agreement with Joseph C. Antonellis dated April 26, 2010 (filed as Exhibit 10.16 to State
Street's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 filed with the SEC
on February 28, 2011 and incorporated herein by reference)*10.17ƒLetter Agreement with Michael W. Bell dated May 23, 2013 (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to State
Street's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013 filed with the SEC
on August 6, 2013 and incorporated herein by reference)*10.18AƒForm of Indemnification Agreement between State Street Corporation and each of its directors
*10.18BƒForm of Indemnification Agreement between State Street Corporation and each of its executive
officers*10.18CƒForm of Indemnification Agreement between State Street Bank and Trust Company and each of
its directors*10.18DƒForm of Indemnification Agreement between State Street Bank and Trust Company and each of
its executive officers*10.19ƒForms of Retention Award Agreement entered into with Joseph L. Hooley on October 22, 2009
(filed as Exhibit 10.18 to State Street™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2009 filed with the SEC on February 22, 2010 and incorporated herein byreference)*10.20ƒForm of Retention Award Agreement entered into with Scott F. Powers on June 15, 2010 (filed
as Exhibit 10.20 to State Street's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 2010 filed with the SEC on February 28, 2011 and incorporated herein by reference)*10.21ƒ2011 Senior Executive Annual Incentive Plan (filed as Exhibit 99.2 to State Street's Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on May 24, 2011 and incorporated herein by reference)*12Statement of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges

*21Subsidiaries of State Street Corporation

*23Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
31.1Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

31.2Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer

32Section 1350 Certifications
**101.INSXBRL Instance Document

**101.SCHXBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document

**101.CALXBRL Taxonomy Calculation Linkbase Document

**101.DEFXBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document

**101.LABXBRL Taxonomy Label Linkbase Document

**101.PREXBRL Taxonomy Presentation Linkbase Document
219  __________________________________________ƒDenotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
*Exhibit filed with the SEC, but not printed herein
**Submitted electronically herewith
Attached as Exhibit 101 to this report are the following formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting 
Language): (i) Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, (ii) 

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, 

(iii) Consolidated Statement of Condition as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, (iv) Consolidated Statement of 
Changes in Shareholders' Equity for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, (v) Consolidated 

Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, and (vi) Notes to Consolidated 

Financial Statements.EXHIBIT 31.1 RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) CERTIFICATION 
I, Joseph L. Hooley, certify that: 

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of State Street Corporation; 

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a 
material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such 
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly 
present, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as 
of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
4. The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls 
and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial 

reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
(a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including 
its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the 
period in which this report is being prepared; (b)  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles; (c)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this 
report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of 

the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and (d)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an 
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal 

control over financial reporting; and 5.   The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal 
control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of 
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): (a)   All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over 
financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, 

summarize and report financial information; and (b)   Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant 
role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. Date:February 21, 2014
 By:/s/  J
OSEPH L. HOOLEY        
   Joseph L. Hooley,
Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerEXHIBIT 31.2 RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) CERTIFICATION 
I, Michael W. Bell, certify that: 

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of State Street Corporation; 

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a 
material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such 
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly 
present, in all material respects, the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as 
of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
4. The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls 
and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial 

reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
(a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including 
its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the 
period in which this report is being prepared; (b)  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of 
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with 
generally accepted accounting principles; (c)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this 
report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of 

the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and (d)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an 
annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal 

control over financial reporting; and 5.   The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal 
control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of 
directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): (a)   All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over 
financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, 

summarize and report financial information; and (b)   Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant 
role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.  Date:February 21, 2014
 By:/s/  M
ICHAEL W. B
ELL         
   Michael W. Bell,
Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer EXHIBIT 32 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS 
To my knowledge, this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2013 fully complies 
with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and the information 

contained in this Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of 
State Street Corporation.  Date:February 21, 2014
 By:/s/  J
OSEPH L. HOOLEY        
   Joseph L. Hooley,
Chairman, President and Chief Executive OfficerDate:February 21, 2014
 By:/s/  M
ICHAEL W. B
ELL        
   Michael W. Bell.
Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial OfficerRECONCILIATION OF OPERATING-BASIS (NON-GAAP) FINANCIAL RESULTS     In addition to presenting State Street™s financial results in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles,referred to as GAAP, management also presents results on a non-GAAP, or "operating" basis, as it believes that this
presentation supports meaningful comparisons from period to period and the analysis of comparable financial trends with
respect to State Street™s normal ongoing business operations.     Management believes that operating-basis financial information, which reports revenue from non-taxable sources, such asinterest revenue from tax-exempt investment securities and processing fees and other revenue associated with tax-advantaged
investments, on a fully taxable-equivalent basis and excludes the impact of revenue and expenses outside of the normal
course of business, facilitates an investor's understanding and analysis of State Street's underlying financial performance and
trends in addition to financial information prepared and reported in conformity with GAAP.  Non-GAAP financial measures
should be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or superior to, financial measures determined in conformity with
GAAP.     The following table reconciles financial information prepared on a non-GAAP, or operating basis, which is presented in theforegoing letter to shareholders, to financial information prepared in conformity with GAAP, which is reported in the
accompanying 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K.Years Ended%Change(Dollars in millions)December31, 2013December31, 20122013vs.2012Total Revenue:
Total revenue, GAAP basis$9,884
$9,6492.4%
Tax-equivalent adjustment associated with tax-exempt investment securities142124Tax-equivalent adjustment associated with tax-advantaged investments158126Loss on sale of Greek investment securitiesŠ46Discount accretion related to former conduit securities(137)(215)Total revenue, operating basis
(1)$10,047
$9,7303.26
Expenses:Total expenses, GAAP basis$7,192
$6,8864.4
Severance costs associated with reorganization of certain non-U.S. operations(11)ŠBenefit related to claims associated with Lehman Brothers bankruptcyŠ362Provisions for litigation exposure and other costs(65)(93)Special one-time additional charitable contributionŠ(25)Acquisition costs(76)(66)Restructuring charges, net(28)(199)Indemnification benefits for assumption of income tax liabilities related to a 2010acquisitionŠ40Total expenses, operating basis
(1)$7,012
$6,9051.55
(1)  For the years ended December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012, positive operating leverage in the year-over-year comparison was approximately 171 basis points, based on an increase in total operating-basis revenue of 3.26% and an increase in total operating-basis expenses of 1.55%.RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING-BASIS (NON-GAAP) FINANCIAL RESULTS (Continued)Years Ended%Change(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)December31, 2013December31, 20122013vs.2012Diluted Earnings per Common Share:
Diluted earnings per common share, GAAP basis$4.62
$4.2010.0%
Loss on sale of Greek investment securitiesŠ.06Severance costs associated with reorganization of certain non-U.S. operations.02ŠProvisions for litigation exposure and other costs.09.12Special one-time additional charitable contributionŠ.04Acquisition costs.11.09Restructuring charges, net.04.27Benefit related to claims associated with Lehman Brothers bankruptcyŠ(.46)Discount accretion related to former conduit securities(.18)(.27)Out-of-period benefit to adjust deferred taxes(.16)ŠNet tax effect of audit settlements associated with a 2010 acquisitionŠ(.10)Diluted earnings per common share, operating basis$4.54
$3.9514.9
Return on Average Common Equity:Return on average common equity, GAAP basis10.5%10.3%20 bps
Loss on sale of Greek investment securitiesŠ.1Provisions for litigation exposure and other costs.2.3Special one-time additional charitable contributionŠ.1Acquisition costs.3.2Restructuring charges, net.1.7Benefit related to claims associated with Lehman Brothers bankruptcyŠ(1.1)Discount accretion related to former conduit securities(.4)
(.7)
Out-of-period benefit to adjust deferred taxes(.4)
ŠNet tax effect of audit settlements associated with a 2010 acquisitionŠ(.2)
Return on average common equity, operating basis10.3%9.7%60
BOARD OF DIRECTORSFebruary 21, 2014Joseph L. HooleyLinda A. Hill
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer,State Street CorporationWallace Brett Donham Professor of BusinessAdministration, Harvard Business SchoolJosé E. AlmeidaRobert S. Kaplan
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer,Covidien PLC, global healthcare products companySenior Associate Dean for External Relations andProfessor of Management Practice, Harvard Business
School; former Vice Chairman, Goldman Sachs Group,
financial servicesKennett F. BurnesRichard P. Sergel
Retired Chairman, President and Chief ExecutiveOfficer, Cabot Corporation, manufacturer of specialty
chemicals and performance materialsRetired President and Chief Executive Officer,
North American Electric Reliability Corporation,               

electric reliability organizationPeter CoymRonald L. Skates
Retired head of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in Germany, financial services
Former Chief Executive Officer and President, DataGeneral Corp., manufacturer of multi-user computer
systems; private investorPatrick de Saint-AignanGregory L. Summe
Retired Managing Director and Advisory Director for 
Morgan Stanley, global financial services
Managing Director and Vice Chairman of Global Buyout,Carlyle Group, global alternative asset managerAmelia C. FawcettThomas J. Wilson
Deputy Chairman, Investment AB Kinnevik, a long-termoriented investment company based in SwedenChairman, President and Chief Executive Officer,Allstate Corporation, property and casualty insuranceEXECUTIVE LEADERSHIPFebruary 21, 2014Joseph L. Hooley(1)(2)Chairman, President and Chief          Executive Officer 
Scott R. FitzGeraldExecutive Vice President
Peter O'Neill(1)(2)Executive Vice President
Joseph C. Antonellis
(1)(2)Vice Chairman 
Stefan M. GavellExecutive Vice President 
Christopher Perretta(1)(2)Executive Vice President 
Tracy Atkinson
Executive Vice President
Phillip S. GillespieExecutive Vice President
James S. Phalen(1)(2)Executive Vice President 
Michael W. Bell
(1)(2)                             Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer
Stefan GmürExecutive Vice President
David C. PhelanExecutive Vice President, General       

Counsel and Assistant Secretary
Anthony C. BisegnaExecutive Vice President
Alan D. GreeneExecutive Vice President
Scott F. Powers
(1)(2)President and Chief Executive Officer of 
State Street Global Advisors
Lynn S. Blake
Executive Vice President
Hannah M. GroveExecutive Vice President 
Alison A. Quirk
(1)(2)Executive Vice President 
Martine A. Bond
Executive Vice President
David J. GutschenritterExecutive Vice President and Treasurer
Bernard P. Reilly
Executive Vice President 
Nicholas J. BonnExecutive Vice President 
James A. Hardy
Executive Vice President 
Doreen RigbyExecutive Vice President
Marc P. Brown
Executive Vice President
Kathryn M. HorganExecutive Vice President
Michael F. Rogers
(1)(2)Executive Vice President
James C. Caccivio, Jr.
Executive Vice President
Robert KaplanExecutive Vice President
Dennis E. RossExecutive Vice President
Anthony M. CareyExecutive Vice President
Mark R. KeatingExecutive Vice President 
James E. RossExecutive Vice President
Jeffrey N. Carp(1)(2)Executive Vice President,
Chief Legal Officer and Secretary
Gunjan KediaExecutive Vice President
Wai Kwong Seck
Executive Vice President
Patrick D. CentanniExecutive Vice President
Karen C. KeenanExecutive Vice President
Paul J. SelianExecutive Vice President
Jeff D. ConwayExecutive Vice President
John L. Klinck, Jr.
(1)(2)Executive Vice President
William Slattery
 Executive Vice President
Cuan CoulterExecutive Vice President and                   

Chief Compliance Officer
Andrew Kuritzkes(1)(2)Executive Vice President and                  
Chief Risk Officer
Mark J. SnyderExecutive Vice President
David C. CrawfordExecutive Vice President
Richard F. Lacaille                                                            
Executive Vice President
David SuetensExecutive Vice President
Albert J. CristoforoExecutive Vice President
Brenda Lyons
Executive Vice President
George E. SullivanExecutive Vice President
Susan DarganExecutive Vice President
James J. Malerba(1)Executive Vice President, Corporate 
Controller and Chief Accounting Officer
Kevin F. Sullivan
Executive Vice President 
Denise A. DeAmore
Executive Vice President
Louis D. MaiuriExecutive Vice President
Richard Taggart
Executive Vice President
Jayne K. DonahueExecutive Vice President and

General Auditor Ian MartinExecutive Vice President
Brian J. Walsh
Executive Vice President
Sharon E. Donovan HartExecutive Vice President
Steven R. MeierExecutive Vice President
Michael J. Wilson
Executive Vice President
Gregory A. Ehret
Executive Vice President
Kristi L. MichemExecutive Vice President
Ali M. El-AbboudExecutive Vice President
Stephen F. Nazzaro
Executive Vice President
(1)    Designated as executive officer for SEC purposes
(2)      Member of State Street Management CommitteeSTATE STREET WORLDWIDEAustraliaJapan
ScotlandMelbourneFukuokaEdinburgh
SydneyTokyo
YokohamaUnited StatesAustriaCaliforniaViennaLiechtensteinIrvineVaduzLos Angeles
BelgiumRedwood CityLa HulpeLuxembourgSacramentoLuxembourgSan Francisco
Brunei Darussalam
JerudongMalaysiaConnecticutKuala LumpurHartford
CanadaWiltonMontrealMauritiusTorontoPort Louis
District of ColombiaVancouverWashingtonNetherlandsCayman IslandsAmsterdamFloridaGeorge Town, Grand CaymanJacksonvilleNew ZealandChannel IslandsWellingtonGeorgiaGuernseyAtlantaSaint Peter PortPeople's Republic of ChinaBeijingIllinoisJerseyHangzhouChicago
Saint HelierHong Kong
MassachusettsFrancePoland
BostonParisKrakowCambridge
GraftonGermanySingapore
HadleyFrankfurtSingaporeQuincy

MunichWestboroughSouth AfricaIndiaCape TownMissouriBangaloreKansas CityMaharashtraSouth KoreaMumbaiSeoul
New HampshirePuneNashuaSwitzerlandIrelandAltishofenNew JerseyCarrickminesSt. GallenFair Lawn
DroghedaZurichPrinceton

Dublin
KilkennyTaiwanNew YorkNaasTaipei CityNew York
White PlainsItalyUnited Arab Emirates

MilanDubai
PennsylvaniaTurinBerwynUnited KingdomEnglandTexas
LondonAustin
©2014 STATE STREET CORPORATION 14-21098-0214State Street Corporation State Street Financial Center 
One Lincoln Street 
Boston, MA 02111www.statestreet.com
