
˙˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˇ˘
˜˚˛˝˛˙ˆˇ˘
˜˜˚˛˛˝˙˜˝ˆˇ˙˝
˛˝˙ˆ˝˙ˇ˘

ˇ˘
˘
⁄
˘˝˙
−
˛ˇ˙ˇ˘˛



˝˙ˆ˝˙ˇ˝˙‡ˆ˙˘˝˙
•••˘
˘˙Ž†ı
⁄œ
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇˆ
˜˚˛˝

˜˘
˜



˙†˘

2013 marked our 155th anniversary and we capped it with the strongest results Fi˜h ˚ird has ever 
reported. Net income available to common shareholders of $1.8 billion marks the highest earnings in 
our history, up 17 percent from 2012, driven by solid revenue growth and well-controlled expenses. 
Earnings per diluted share of $2.02 increased 22 percent from the prior year and return on average 
assets increased 14 basis points to 1.5 percent. Our record performance exempli˛es our focus on 
delivering steady, reliable growth and creating long-term value for our shareholders. Additionally, 
Fi˜h ˚ird™s stock price exceeded a ˛ve-year high and, on a full-year basis, outperformed both the 
S&P Banks index and the broader S&P 500 index. Our one-year total shareholder return (stock price 
plus dividends) was 42 percent in 2013, versus 23 percent in 2012. As we demonstrated in 2013, 
consistency and improvement in our results depend on proactive leadership, strategic agility, and 

distinctive execution.
It indeed was a strong and pro˛table year for the Bank Š one which clearly showed our continued 
growth and achievement as well as the solid foundation upon which that™s built. Our success is due 
to the guidance of our Board of Directors and the hard work of our employees to execute every day 
on our Vision to become the one bank that 
people most value and trust. Our focus has 
paid o˝ with new products, partnerships, 
and achievements. Along the way, we™ve 

grown our talent, our business, our good 
reputation, and our positive impact Š all 
while working to achieve the appropriate 
balance between risk and reward.
A strong, ongoing commitment to risk 
management is central to our culture, 
and in 2013 we took important steps 
to strengthen the infrastructure of our 

Company. We have never stopped investing 
in our revenue-generating capabilities and 


˜˚˛
˙
“
š€
š€
š€
š€
€€€
€€€
’‡€€’€˛ˆ˘˚˝˙˘˛…˙“
˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙˙–“
have made signi˛cant investments to protect our Company through tighter or additional controls 
and oversight functions. Asset quality performance is at the best levels in more than ˛ve years 
and our reserve coverage levels are among the strongest in the industry. At the same time, we™ve 
remained focused on disciplined expense management, as our e˙ciency ratio improved from 
 62 percent in 2012 to 58 percent in 2013. Ultimately, the combination of making sound investments 

while controlling costs and managing risk has equipped us to remain a strong competitor in 
today™s low-growth, low-interest rate, and tough regulatory environment. Our commitment to 
continually reinvest in the business is reˆected in total revenue of $6.8 billion, which is among the 
highest levels we ever reported. We enter 2014 with strong local market positions; great businesses 
where local leadership matters; and national businesses that have contributed to our growth.
We take pride in our ability to recognize change in the industry and to adapt quickly and judiciously. 
In 2013, we showed the strategic agility of the model in our mortgage business, adjusting from 
record-levels of originations in the second quarter through the sharp drop-o˝ in the months that 
followed. Over a number of years, we™ve invested to become bigger, better, and smarter in this 

space. We™ve seen the results of those investments Š increasing our national mortgage origination 
market share from 16th in 2009 to 13th in 2013 while developing a ˆexible business model that 
could be adjusted quickly in response to a change in the environment. We know mortgage is a 
cyclical business and we™ve managed well through this cycle. We™re committed to the purchase 
origination market and the servicing business, and we have strong relationships with builders and 
real estate agents. ˚is business remains extremely important to us, as home mortgages are a core 
consumer product, which provides the opportunity to develop deeper relationships over the life 

of the loan.
Our ability to cross sell is enhanced as we ˛nd ways to improve the capabilities and experiences 
that our customers desire and are willing to pay for. We deliver products, services, and experiences 
to e˙ciently address the challenges that our customers face such as cash handling for large retail 
chains, new ways to make working capital available to small businesses, and simple and clear ways 
for consumers to make and manage deposits. 
Our commitment to o˝ering a holistic customer experience has led us to create important 
alliances with organizations like Stand Up To Cancer (SU2C) and NextJob. In 2013, we introduced 
Fi˜h ˚ird SU2C credit and debit cards directing donations toward cancer research with every 

qualifying purchase made using these cards. And our relationship with NextJob provides an 
industry-˛rst program that gives unemployed mortgage borrowers job search assistance. ˚is 
partnership has been so successful that we voluntarily waived our exclusivity provision so that 
š€
˜˚˛˛˝˙


˘ˆ˝




€ˆ˘
“˘



•ˇ˛˚ˆ’
ˆ˘ˆ˘˝

ˆˇ˘
ˆ˘˝
’˝

ˆ˘˝

ˇ˝

˝

ˆ˝

˝
other banks could adopt the program. E˝orts like these make a real di˝erence to our customers, 
providing tangible value to them, and helping to create a lasting relationship with Fi˜h ˚ird. 
Our ability to be responsive to key customer segments while also creating shared value is one 
of our greatest strengths. We have several initiatives underway to further improve the customer 
experience and simultaneously increase the pro˛tability of the Bank.
We start by listening to our customers and having in-depth, consultative discussions with them. 
We work to really understand what they value most in their banking relationships, and what 
they value most in their lives and ˛nancial futures. Customer feedback and the information we 
gather through our consultative sales process has been an important component of our strategy. 
It™s a practice that spans our entire franchise Š from the Investment Advisors business, to our 
Commercial Bank, and across the Retail Banking and Consumer Lending divisions. Consequently, 
we are better equipped to provide complete solutions for our customers, no matter the point of 
entry at the Bank. In short, we put the customer at the center of all that we do. ˚is simple practice 
has had a signi˛cant impact for us. It has given us insights needed to develop better products 

and streamline existing processes to serve our customers better. It led to a shi˜ in the customer 
value proposition, away from fees perceived as punitive toward a more value-oriented model that 
rewards the depth of the relationship. It has allowed us to focus on key customer segments that 
understand the value exchange we o˝er and are willing to engage with us to gain access to our 
quality products. We™re targeting the opportunities that are most available to us, given our position 
and business model. Customers who recognize the value we o˝er do so in exchange, most o˜en, 
by bringing more and deeper relationships to the Bank, which enables us to optimally serve them 

going forward.
˚is is certainly apparent in our Investment Advisors segment, where our business has developed 
in large part from helping clients over their lifetimes and from becoming their trusted partner. We 
know that our clients value integrated wealth planning, not just stock picking or total investment 
returns. A˜er experiencing signi˛cant declines in market value during the Great Recession, they 
are facing a new era of ˛nancial complexity and behaving di˝erently Š taking fewer risks and 
focusing on having greater liquidity. ˚ey have a strong appetite and need for holistic advice, 
which we o˝er through our regional wealth management business. Our balanced and focused 
approach considers the cyclicality and nuances of markets as well as major life events or business 
needs to create the best wealth plans for our clients. We provide not only premium advice and 

guidance, but also clear action steps to help clients follow through and achieve their goals. 
Our highly experienced wealth managers provide quality service throughout the course of the 
ƒ˘ˆ˘ˇ“ˆ‡


ˆˇ˘ˆ˝˘



ˆ˘ˇ“ˆ˝˛ˆ


ˆ˘ˆ˝ˇ˝
“ˇ“ˆ˝˘ˆ


ˆ

ˆˆ˘




˝

ˆ˘
˝˘„

ˆ˝
˝
’ˆ˝ˇ˘ˆ˝’
relationship and we™ve di˝erentiated ourselves with a collaborative approach that connects our 
internal specialists as well as our clients™ external advisors. We work together to ensure that we 
fully understand their needs and deliver a comprehensive solution. Our focus on recruiting 
and retaining top talent, serving the right clients in the right channel, and providing best-in-
class service has resonated, as segment revenue grew 9 percent and net asset ˆows increased 
 67 percent from 2012.
Consultative discussions in our Commercial Bank, too, have supported our e˝orts to build a 
high-performing business banking segment as well as to establish new primary bank relationships 
and inspired product innovations, such as our Currency Processing Solutions, that simplify cash 
handling for our clients. ˚is has resulted in overall Commercial Banking segment net revenue of 
$2.3 billion, and an increase in treasury management fees of 6 percent from 2012. We™ve further 
di˝erentiated these solutions to support key industry focus areas, such as mid-corporate clients 
with $500 million to $2 billion in revenue and select industry verticals. ˚e healthcare vertical 
has grown consistently since its launch in 2008, and in 2013 we had approximately $700 million 

of originations to this industry. In a similar fashion, we established a specialized energy industry 
lending group in 2012, which contributed approximately $400 million of originations in 2013. 
We have always had a strong presence in commercial and industrial (C&I) lending, and these 
industry verticals as well as our investments in talent and infrastructure led to 15 percent growth 
in average C&I loans compared with 2012. Additionally, we have a centralized group for growing 
commercial real estate loans primarily within the multi-family and industrial sectors. We believe 
these opportunities and focus areas will continue to drive success for Fi˜h ˚ird.
We™ve also seen the bene˛t of the relationship value orientation in our Consumer Bank following 
changes we made to streamline our account o˝erings and simplify choices for our customers. 
By the middle of 2013, we had already completely converted our 2.1 million primary consumer 
households to a new account set, which includes ˛ve core 

checking and three core savings products. ˚e process was 
transformational and, we believe, industry-leading. Our new 
o˝erings encourage customers to hold higher average balances 
in their accounts and to have multiple products with us. We are 
already seeing positive outcomes. Today, the average Fi˜h ˚ird 
Bank checking customer uses just over ˛ve of our products and, 

as we anticipated, we are seeing lower customer attrition rates 
and growth in revenue per household.
Fi˜h ˚ird is also proactively addressing changing consumer 
preferences for banking interactions while increasing the 
e˙ciency of our distribution network. New technology Š 
Internet banking, mobile apps, and image ATMs Š has been 
adopted at an astounding pace. Already, 26 percent of our 
consumer deposit volume comes through self-service channels, 

a portion of that through the remote deposit capture feature on 
the mobile app, which we launched late in 2012. ˚is shi˜ has 
led to a decline in teller transactions. ˚at™s no surprise, since 
the vast majority of transactions that do take place with a customer service representative today 

Š primarily deposits, withdrawals, and balance transfers Š can be completed through a self-
service format. In line with our e˝orts to pair extraordinary self-service capabilities with new 
ways of thinking about the distribution model and the strategic value we can, and should, provide 
†
˛
˜˚˛˚˝˚˙˙›−‰˙
˙˙˙˛
˙„‰˙˙in the branch, we™re accelerating the self-service transition where it makes sense. We™re working 
to educate customers by using in-branch ATMs and a smaller, more cost-e˝ective branch format 
with about half the sta˙ng of a traditional branch. Our banking centers remain the most visible 
brand identi˛er in our communities and they also 
will remain a key source of deposits and cross-selling. 
Our customers have indicated that branch proximity 
and convenience are still top factors in selecting a 
bank, and a vast majority of our consumer checking 
households, as well as Private Bank, small business, 
and business banking customers have visited a 

banking center in the past six months. Prudently 
balancing the lower branch tra˙c with branch 
presence and the consultative expertise we can o˝er there will be a key priority for Fi˜h ˚ird and 
the industry in coming years.
Our customers have told us how much they appreciate our employees and the way they listen 
to them, get to know them, and respond to their needs. ˚e friendly Fi˜h ˚ird face, the spirit 
behind our pin, and the commitment to improving lives are among the hallmarks of our brand. 
˚ey™re at the foundation of our relationships with customers, businesses, and communities, and 
the strength of those relationships is paramount to our success. ˚at™s why I believe that the people 
who represent our Company are Fi˜h ˚ird Bank™s most valuable asset. In 2013, for the second 
time, we were recognized by the Gallup organization with a Gallup Great Workplace Award for 

our engaged and productive workforce. It takes a team e˝ort to di˝erentiate our Company through 
strong results. We can all be proud of what we accomplished in 2013, both in terms of engagement 
and ˛nancial performance.
Our solid ˛nancial performance has produced high rates of internal capital generation, which 
have been supplemented by gains on our position in the payment processing company, Vantiv, 
Inc. ˚is has proven to be a strategic advantage for Fi˜h ˚ird and we™ve recognized about 
 $2.9 billion in total pre-tax gains from the sale of the processing business in 2009 to today, 

including gains in 2013 of $327 million on the sale of a portion of our Class A shares of Vantiv 
common stock and $206 million on the valuation of the warrant we hold in Vantiv. We continue 
to own a 25 percent interest in Vantiv, whose market capitalization was $5.4 billion at year-end. 

Fi˜h ˚ird has bene˛ted tremendously from its investment in Vantiv, and while we would expect 
to manage our position downward over time in a disciplined way, it continues to give us signi˛cant 
capital ˆexibility.
Fi˜h ˚ird™s strong earnings generation provides the ability to distribute excess capital to 
shareholders while maintaining already strong capital levels. In 2013, we increased our annual 
dividend 31 percent from the prior year, to a level consistent with the Federal Reserve™s near-
term dividend payout ratio guidance of 30 percent. Including common stock repurchases, we 
returned a net $1.3 billion to shareholders. We™ve reduced our share count by 7 percent from the 

peak in 2012 while growing tangible book value per share by 12 percent over that same period. 
Despite these returns, our capital levels remain very strong overall, with a Tier 1 common ratio* of 
 9.4 percent as well as a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 10.4 percent at year-end compared with 

the 6 percent regulatory well-capitalized minimum. 
Our capital position also is well-aligned with new capital rules that were approved by U.S. banking 
regulators in July, with a Basel III pro form Tier 1 common ratio estimate of 9.0 percent at year-end. 
In light of the new rules, we took a number of important steps in 2013 to make the composition 
˘
˝˙˝˛



of our capital as e˙cient as possible. We converted $398 million of 8.50% Series G Preferred Stock into shares of our 
common stock and issued $1.05 billion of new preferred stock, Series H and Series I, with lower coupons. We also 
issued $2.5 billion of long-term debt and redeemed $750 million of outstanding trust preferred securities. Our focus 
on e˙cient capital management is consistent with our ongoing goal to maintain a strong balance sheet for a variety 
of economic environments, while prudently managing capital.
As we turn to 2014, we continue to aim for excellence and outperformance. We are ready to build on our legacy and 
to do that, we must execute on four key strategies:
 Focused segmentation Š Identifying customer segments, understanding their unmet needs and delivering a 
more targeted value proposition more e˙ciently.
 Distinctive execution Š Providing a di˝erentiated customer experience with clear value propositions and 

delivering it with outstanding, consistent execution.
 Innovation Š Listening to customers and creating solutions that drive di˝erentiated value is what we mean by 

innovation. Whether we™re optimizing products and services, improving the technology used to deliver them, or 
shi˜ing the way we sell them, we™re moving forward to create value in the industry. In 2013, we were awarded two 
patents for a business that didn™t exist two years ago.
 Growth accelerators Š Long-term investments to build our presence, our customer base, and our business.
˚ese are strategies we™ve been working on, and they are the building blocks for our future. Over the next several 

years, we™ll focus on leveraging this work and expanding on it in new and exciting ways, just as we continue to evolve 
and strengthen the risk culture that ensures our ongoing success. I have con˛dence in the leadership and talent of our 
Company to make the years ahead our best yet. 
Sincerely,

−ˆ˘
˜
˜˚˚

˘˘
‡€‰−€‰•€‰š€‰€‰

š–
•–
−–
‡–
‚–
•
„–
™–






†
Fi˜h ˚ird Bancorp has many important assets, but the most valuable 
is our reputation for integrity. We are judged by our conduct, and we 
must act in a manner that merits public trust and con˛dence.
Fi˜h ˚ird Bancorp™s Corporate Governance Guidelines, along with 
Fi˜h ˚ird™s Articles of Incorporation, Code of Regulations, Code of 

Business Conduct and Ethics, charters of the various committees of 
the Board, and our other governance policies and procedures provide 
the foundation for our governance and help ensure that we retain our 
integrity and merit public trust and con˛dence.
For more on Fi˜h ˚ird™s corporate governance policies and practices, 
visit 
ŒŒŒŁ
. ˙

˜‘‚™˝ﬁ†˜‰˝‰‚˝‘ﬂŁŒ‰Š
Œ
…ˇ˘˘˙˛˝˜
•

Ÿˆ






Œ
Ł

Œ
ˆ˘
Žˆ’ˆ˛˛˝…ˆ˘
ˆŒ

Œ
Œ

Œ

˚e Consumer Bank comprises our branch banking and consumer lending businesses, which 
introduce Fi˜h ˚ird to customers and o˜en provide the ˛rst step in making a valued and 
lasting connection with us. With a focus on relationship building and having strong ties in 
the community, our local teams have found innovative ways to create real and di˝erentiated 
value for our customers. Our a˙liate model brings the power of the entire network to a local 
level, and that is especially apparent in our Consumer Bank. 
˘
We put the customer at the center of all that we do so that we are in the best position to 
address their challenges, goals, and aspirations. ˚e more we understand our customers, 
the better we can serve them. We know that each person™s ˛nancial situation is unique and 
we are committed to working with them to create bene˛cial outcomes. We provide expert 
advice from an integrated team, dedicated service from resourceful employees, and smart 
solutions that are tailored to the customer. 
Our goal is to make comprehensive o˝erings available along a value continuum that 
customers want, and we expect that to create deeper relationships as a result. Customers 
have indicated that convenience and branch proximity are still top factors in selecting a bank, 
and a vast majority of our checking account customers have utilized our banking centers 
in the past six months. However, with our integrated channel strategy, our services extend 
beyond the walls of our banking centers through mobile and online banking capabilities.
We believe that becoming a trusted ˛nancial partner is something that™s earned over time, 
by being clear, transparent and direct with customers. We™ve worked diligently over the past 
few years to improve our delivery on these aspects of trust. As a result, personal ˛nance 
website WalletHub recognized Fi˜h ˚ird as one of only two banks in the top 25 with a 
perfect score for transparency in an industry study of checking-fee disclosures. We™re very 
proud of this recognition and feel it™s validation of our e˝orts. 
˘˝˛˘˚—‹
Over the past several years we™ve executed a multi-step e˝ort to standardize and improve 
our sales process, focus on key customer segments, invest in a new deposit product set, and 

optimize our service capabilities. Work in many of these areas can never truly be considered 
˛nished. We continue to look for ways to be better and we™re squarely focused on our service 
capabilities, and providing a consistent, one bank experience across all business lines.
We will continue to re-shape our physical distribution network using a combination of 
traditional branches, smaller branches, and next generation ATMs. Customer behavior 
†
œﬂﬁﬁﬂ‚‹’„
œﬂﬁﬁﬂ‚‹’
œﬂﬁﬁﬂ‚‹™ﬂﬁﬁﬂ‚‹˙
˜˚˜˛˝˙
˛˘ˇˆ˛
˝˚˛
˛˘ˇˆ˛
˚ˆˇ˙



˛
˜
˜

˙˙
™‚‘†˝‰Œ€‹›€€
€‹…
patterns are changing rapidly and at the end of 2013, more than a quarter of our retail 
deposits were completed using ATMs or on our mobile app. Clearly customers are 
becoming more comfortable with the use of self-service technologies, and frankly expect 
the availability to become even more ubiquitous. To that end, we recently partnered with 
RaceTrac, a convenience store operator in Florida and Georgia, where we installed Fi˜h 
˚ird ATMs at 234 locations. ATMs provide a low-cost, convenient way to serve our 
existing clients, and a marketing channel to build brand awareness with potential new 
customers. It pairs the convenience of a network that customers desire with a lower cost 
to serve. It™s a win-win scenario that ultimately ˆows to the bottom line. 
We are also focused on executing a consistent sales process and making the full scope 
of Fi˜h ˚ird products and services available to our customers in order to acquire and 
deepen primary banking relationships. In 2013, we maintained our mortgage origination 
market share within the top 20, with originations of $22.3 billion. Over the years, we™ve 
invested in the mortgage business to strengthen our position and more important, we™ve 
built a highly adaptable business model. Additionally, we believe this product provides 
signi˛cant cross-sell opportunity for us, which complements our overall consumer 
banking strategy.
Our auto business has also been a source of strength as it tends to be a high-quality, 
attractive asset class given the shorter duration. Our indirect auto lending footprint 
covers 45 states and we partner with a wide network of auto dealers. We are the sixth-
largest bank originator of indirect auto loans in the country, with $12 billion of auto loan 
balances at year-end, up 33 percent from 2009. ˚is business requires a steady approach, 
but the expertise that we™ve developed through many full cycles helps us to maintain 
the discipline to achieve stable and pro˛table results. Our long-standing presence in this 
market has allowed us to develop strong relationships with dealers. While we™ve seen 
increased competition in this space, we remain committed to carefully managing pricing 
and loan volumes to ensure that returns remain appropriate.
Our businesses and geographies give us scale without signi˛cant complexity, and we 
believe that will continue to bene˛t us in the future. We™re committed to listening carefully 
to our customers™ needs and working with them to deliver the optimal solutions. Overall, 
our focus on the customer creates a di˝erentiated experience, o˝ering a unique value 
proposition that takes a holistic approach to each relationship. We believe this approach 
allows us to build deeper and more meaningful relationships with our customers that 
should continue to drive outperformance in our results.
’
œﬂﬁﬁﬂ‚‹œﬂﬁﬁﬂ‚‹’›
œﬂﬁﬁﬂ‚‹™‡‚˙
˜˚˜˛˝˙
˛˘ˇˆ˛
˝˚˛
˜


˛


˙†


Fi˜h ˚ird™s Commercial line of business builds relationships with business, government, 
and professional customers with customized ˛nancial solutions. We provide banking, 
working capital, and ˛nancial services to middle-market, mid-corporate, and large 
organizations. With customers ranging in size from those with $20 million in annual 

revenue to some of the world™s largest companies, our bankers are valued partners in 
our customers™ ˛nancial success. We o˝er traditional lending and depository products 
as well as global cash management, foreign exchange and international trade ˛nance, 
derivatives and capital markets services, asset-based lending, real estate ˛nance, public 
˛nance, commercial leasing, and syndicated ˛nance. 
˘
Serving customers well requires understanding them. We know, for example, that 

customers want more than products from their bank. ˚ey want ideas that contribute 
to their success. ˚ey want results. Our Commercial team delivers with innovations, 
such as our Currency Processing Solutions, which is a cash management solution that 
simpli˛es cash handling for our customers and currently has 8,043 devices installed 
across the country
Our Commercial team also serves customers through specialized industry segments, 
such as healthcare Š where we have industry experts across the country and specialized 
products like the RevLink Solutions platform Š and energy Š which is made up of an 

experienced team o˝ering customized services for companies in petroleum and natural 
gas production, processing, and distribution industries.
˘˝˛˘˚—‹
We have demonstrated commitment to our customers by investing in the mid-corporate 
segment, which targets clients with $500 million to $2 billion in revenue, and we have 
the ability to deliver corporate banking, capital markets, and treasury management 
products and services to these customers. We continue to work closely with our 
customer executives and have more in-depth, strategic conversations. As a result, we 
are better able to o˝er broader solutions to ˛t their individual needs. We are focused on 
o˝ering solutions only a˜er we understand our customers™ needs overall and that takes 
dedication across the entire Commercial team.
Expertise, experience, innovation and trust are valued in the marketplace. ˚ey are 
assets customers value as they work to build their business. We will continue to leverage 
these assets for the good of the Bank and the communities we serve.

†

œﬂﬁﬁﬂ‚‹˜˚˜˛˝˙
’
œﬂﬁﬁﬂ‚‹˛˘ˇˆ˛

˝˚˛
’š™
œﬂﬁﬁﬂ‚‹˛˘ˇˆ˛˚ˆˇ˙


™‚•

˜ˇ˙
ˆˇ˝˛


ˆˇ˝˛
˜ˆˇ˛


˛
†

Our Investment Advisors segment comprises ˛ve distinct businesses, each tailored to the 
unique needs of its customers. Fi˜h ˚ird Private Bank, Fi˜h ˚ird Securities, ClearArc 
Capital, Inc., Fi˜h ˚ird Institutional Services and Fi˜h ˚ird Insurance put more than 
100 years of experience to work to help individual, business, and institutional clients build 

and manage their wealth.
Better ideas Š and better solutions Š begin with better listening. We take the time to 

listen, understand and collaborate. We are trusted advisors whose specialized approach 
acknowledges the needs, goals, and expectations of our clients:
 Fi˜h ˚ird Private Bank serves the complex ˛nancial needs of the Bank™s most aˇuent 
clients, with teams of professionals dedicated to helping clients achieve their ˛nancial 
goals. In September 2013, 
Barron™s
 listed Fi˜h ˚ird Private Bank as one of the Top 40 
Wealth-Management Firms in the United States.
 Fi˜h ˚ird Securities helps individuals and families at every stage of their lives, 
o˝ering retirement, investment and education planning, managed money, annuities, 

and transactional brokerage services.
 Fi˜h ˚ird Insurance helps clients minimize risk and protect wealth through 

insurance products and services such as life insurance, long-term care insurance, 
disability income protection, and annuities.
 ClearArc Capital, Inc., formerly Fi˜h ˚ird Asset Management, Inc., provides asset 

management services to institutional clients. 
 Fi˜h ˚ird Institutional Services provides consulting, investment, and record-

keeping services for corporations, ˛nancial institutions, foundations, endowments, 
and not-for-pro˛t organizations. Products include retirement plans, endowment 
management, planned giving and global and domestic custody services.
˘˝˛˘˚—‹
Listening to our clients is at the heart of our strategy. ˚is helps us build deeper relationships and fully understand 
their unique needs. ˚ese insights give us the information we need to o˝er the best ideas, education and solutions to 
help our clients achieve their ˛nancial goals.
Collaboration with our Retail, Commercial and Business Banking partners adds even more value, providing 
comprehensive ˛nancial advice for our clients and serving their wealth management needs. By leveraging our internal 
company partnerships, Investment Advisors provides our clients with complete, powerful ˛nancial solutions from 
one trusted advisor.

’‡‚€
™ﬂﬁﬁﬂ‚‹’šœﬂﬁﬁﬂ‚‹œﬂﬁﬁﬂ‚‹’š›
œﬂﬁﬁﬂ‚‹’•€š
œﬂﬁﬁﬂ‚‹˜˚˜˛˝˙
˛˘ˇˆ˛
˝˚˛
˛˘ˇˆ˛
˚ˆˇ˙

˛


˛


˙
˛˜
˙
In all we do, we strive to be a good corporate citizen and to operate in a socially responsible manner. 
Our e˝orts in 2013 were highlighted by an innovative new program to help people ˛nd jobs. 
As the economic crisis le˜ many Americans unemployed and upside down on their mortgages, 
helping customers ˛nd jobs was a logical thing to do. We began working with NextJob, a 
reemployment solutions company, to put our customers who were in danger of losing their homes 

through NextJob™s job search and training program. 
Featuring one-on-one job coaching, 39-week access to online job search and training modules and 
a weekly coach-led webinar, the program helped our customers identify their transferable skills, 
develop a marketable resume, conduct a job search and land their next job. It also enabled them to 
stay in their homes and avoid foreclosure, which had a profound impact on their lives. 
˚e homeowner program™s success spurred the additional roll-out of the online component, the 
Job Seeker™s Toolkit, to all Fi˜h ˚ird online customers. It also prompted another major ˛nancial 
institution to adopt the program, helping to make a real 
di˝erence in people™s lives throughout the country. 
Improving lives through ˛nancial empowerment is a key 
initiative for us. We sponsor Dave Ramsey™s ˛nancial education 

course for high school students. In 2013, we saw our goal of 
educating 500,000 students near realization. We also o˝ered 

our Young Banker™s Club for elementary students and deployed 
our Financial Empowerment Mobiles in under-served 
neighborhoods, programs which began nearly 10 years ago.
In 2013 we began an innovative new collaboration with Stand 
Up to Cancer (SU2C) by which a donation is made to the organization every time a customer 
swipes a new Fi˜h ˚ird SU2C debit or credit card. SU2C is committed to eradicating cancer by 
accelerating innovative cancer research that will get new therapies to patients quickly.
˚e Bank also rebuilt the homes of six veterans in 2013 and hosted volunteer, fundraising and 
commemorative events throughout our Company in November, resulting in donations to the Folds 
of Honor Foundation in excess of $100,000. Our employees also provided 550,000 meals for the 
hungry during our Fi˜h ˚ird Day volunteer outreach on May 3. Finally, we made a company-wide 
donation to United Way of more than $8 million in 2013. 
More information will be published in the 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report in 
 April 2014. 
†
˜˚˛˝˙ˆ


ˇ

ˇ˝ˇˆ












ˆ˛







˝ˇ˝ˇˆ






     2013 ANNUAL REPORT 
FINANCIAL CONTENTS 
 Glossary of Abbreviations and Acronyms 
14Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
Selected Financial Data 
15Overview 16Non-GAAP Financial Measures 
21Recent Accounting Standards 
23Critical Accounting Policies   
23Risk Factors  
27Statements of Income Analysis 36Business Segment Review 43Fourth Quarter Review  
50Balance Sheet Analysis 
53Risk Management  
58Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
84Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments  
85Management™s Assessment as to the Effectiveness of Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
86Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
87Financial Statements 
Consolidated Balance Sheets  
88Consolidated Statements of Income  
89Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 
90Consolidated Statements 
of Changes in Equity  
91Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
92  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 Summary of Significant Accounting and Reporting Policies
 93Commitments, Contingent Liabilities and Guarantees 
131
Supplemental Cash Flow Information
 101Legal and Regulato
ry Proceedings 135
Restrictions on Cash and Dividends 101Related Party Transactions 137
Securities 102Income Taxes 138
Loans and Leases 104Retirement and Benefit Plans 139
Credit Quality and the Allowance for Loan and Lease 
Losses 105Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 145
Bank Premises and Equipment 115Comm
on, Preferred and Treasury Stock 147
Goodwill 115Stock-Bas
ed Compensation 149
Intangible Assets 116Other Noninterest Income and Other Noninterest Expense 153
Variable Interest Entities 117Earnings Per Share 154

Sales of Receivables and Servicing Rights 120Fair Value Measurements 155
Derivative Financial Instruments 122Certain Regulatory Requirements and Capital Ratios 165
Offsetting Derivative Financial Instruments 127Parent Company Financial Statements 166
Other Assets 127Bus
iness Segments 168
Short-Term Borrowings 128Subsequent Events 171
Long-Term Debt 129 
  Annual Report on Form 10-K
 172 
Consolidated Ten Year Comparison 
187 
Directors and Officers 
188 
Corporate Information 
  FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
This report contains statements that we believe are ﬁforward-look
ing statementsﬂ within the meanin
g of Section 27A of the Secur
ities Act of 1933, as amended, and Rule 175 promulgated thereunder, and Section 
21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 
3b-6 promulgated thereunder. These statements relate to our fi
nancial condition, results of operations, 
plans, objectives, future performance or 
business. They usually can be identified by the use of forward-looking language such as ﬁwill likely result,ﬂ ﬁmay,ﬂ ﬁare expec
ted to,ﬂ ﬁis anticipated,ﬂ ﬁestimate,ﬂ ﬁforecast,ﬂ ﬁprojected,ﬂ ﬁintends to,ﬂ or may include 
other similar words or phrases such as ﬁbelieves,ﬂ ﬁplans,ﬂ ﬁt
rend,ﬂ ﬁobjective,ﬂ ﬁc
ontinue,ﬂ ﬁremain,ﬂ or
 similar expressions,
 or future or conditional verbs such as ﬁwill,ﬂ ﬁwould,ﬂ ﬁshould,ﬂ ﬁcould,ﬂ ﬁmight,ﬂ 
ﬁcan,ﬂ or similar verbs. When considering these forward-looking 
statements, you should keep in mind these risks and uncertainti
es, as well as any cautiona
ry statements we may make. Moreover, you should treat 
these statements as speaking only as of the date they are made 
and based only on information then actually known to us. There a
re a number of important factors that coul
d cause future results to differ materially 
from historical performance and these forward-looking statements
. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are n
ot limited to: (1) general economic cond
itions and weakening in the economy, 
specifically the real estate market, either nationally or in the 
states in which Fifth Third, one or more acquired entities and
/or the combined company do business, are less favorable than expected; (2) deteriorating 
credit quality; (3) political developments, wars or other hostilities may disrupt or increase volatility in securities markets 
or other economic conditions; (4) changes in the interest rate environment reduce interest 
margins; (5) prepayment speeds, loan origination and sale volu
mes, charge-offs and loan loss provisions; (6) Fifth Third™s abil
ity to maintain required capital levels and adequate sources of funding and liquidity; (7) 
maintaining capital requirements may limit Fifth Third™s operations and potential growth; (8) changes and trends in capital mar
kets; (9) problems encountered by larger or similar financial institutions may adversely 
affect the banking industry and/or Fifth Third; (10) competitive 
pressures among depository institutions increase significantly
; (11) effects of critical accounting policie
s and judgments; (12) changes in accounting 
policies or procedures as may be required by the Financial Accoun
ting Standards Board (FASB) or other regulatory agencies; (13)
 legislative or regulatory changes or actions, or significant litigation, adversely affect 
Fifth Third, one or more acquired entities and/or the combined 
company or the businesses in which Fifth Third, one or more acqu
ired entities and/or the combined company are engaged, including the Dodd-
Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; (14) ability 
to maintain favorable ratings from rating agencies; (15) flu
ctuation of Fifth Third™s stock price; (16) ab
ility to attract and retain key personnel; (17) 
ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries; (18) potentially dilutive effect of future acquisitions on current sharehol
ders™ ownership of Fifth Third; (19) effects of 
accounting or financial results of one or more 
acquired entities; (20) difficulties from Fifth Third™s investment
 in or the results of operations of Vantiv, LLC; (21) loss of
 income from any sale or potential sale of businesses that could have an adverse effect on 
Fifth Third™s earnings and future growth; (22) ability to secure 
confidential information and deliver products and services thr
ough the use of computer systems and teleco
mmunications networks; and (23) the impact 
of reputational risk created by these developments on such matt
ers as business generation and re
tention, funding and liquidity.
 GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
  14  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  Fifth Third Bancorp provides the following list of abbreviations an
d acronyms as a tool for the reader that are used in Managem
ent™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, th
e Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to Consolida
ted Financial 
Statements.   ALCO: Asset Liability Management Committee 
ALLL: Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses 
AOCI: Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 
ARM: Adjustable Rate Mortgage  ATM: Automated Teller Machine
  BBA: British Bankers™ Association 
BCBS: Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BHC: Bank Holding Company
  BOLI: Bank Owned Life Insurance 
bps: Basis points BPO: Broker Price Opinion CapPR: Capital Plan Review 
CCAR: Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review  
CD: Certificate of Deposit 
CDC: Fifth Third Community Development Corporation 
CFPB: United States Consumer 
Financial Protection Bureau  
C&I: Commercial and Industrial 
CPP: Capital Purchase Program 
CRA: Community Reinvestment Act 
DCF: Discounted Cash Flow DIF:
 Deposit Insurance Fund ERISA: Employee Retirement Income Security Act 
ERM: Enterprise Risk Management 
ERMC: Enterprise Risk Management Committee 
EVE: Economic Value of Equity FASB: Financial Accounting Standards Board 
FDIC: Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
FHLB: Federal Home Loan Bank 
FHLMC: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 
FICO: Fair Isaac Corporation (credit rating) 
FNMA: Federal National Mortgage Association 
FRB: Federal Reserve Bank 
FSOC: Financial Stability Oversight Council 
FTAM: Fifth Third Asset Management, Inc. 
FTE: Fully Taxable Equivalent
 FTP: Funds Transfer Pricing 
FTS: Fifth Third Securities GNMA: Government National Mortgage Association 
GSE: Government Sponsored  Enterprise 
HAMP: Home Affordable Modification Program HARP: Home Affordable Refinance Program 
HFS: Held for Sale
   IPO: Initial Public Offering
 IRC: Internal Revenue Code IRLC: Interest Rate Lock Commitment 
IRS: Internal Revenue Service 
ISDA:
 International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. 
LCR: Liquidity Coverage Ratio 
LIBOR: London InterBank Offered Rate 
LLC: 
Limited Liability Company
 LTV: Loan-to-Value 
MD&A: Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations 

MSR: Mortgage Servicing Right 
N/A: Not Applicable 
NASDAQ: National Association of Securities Dealers Automated 
Quotations 

NII: Net Interest Income 
NM: Not Meaningful 
NPR:
 Notice of Proposed Rulemaking 
NSFR: Net Stable Funding Ratio 
OCC: Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
 OCI: Other Comprehensive Income 
OIS: Overnight Index Swap Rate 
OREO: Other Real Estate Owned OTTI: Other-Than-Temporary Impairment 
PMI: Private Mortgage Insurance 
RSAs: Restricted Stock Awards SARs: Stock Appreciation Rights  
SBA: Small Business Administration 
SCAP: Supervisory Capital Assessment Program 
SEC: United States Securities and Exchange Commission TARP: Troubled Asset Relief Program 
TBA: To Be Announced TDR: 
Troubled Debt Restructuring 
TruPS: Trust Preferred Securities 
TSA: Transition Service Agreement 
U.S.: United States of America 
U.S. GAAP: United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles 
UST: United States Treasury VaR: Value-at-Risk 
VIE: Variable Interest Entity 
VRDN: 
Variable Rate Demand Note 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  15  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following is MD&A of certain significant factors that have 
affected Fifth Third Bancorp™s (th
e ﬁBancorpﬂ or ﬁFifth Thirdﬂ) 
financial condition and results of operations during 
the periods included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are a part of t
his filing. Reference 
to the Bancorp incorporates the parent holdi
ng company and all consolidated subsidiaries.  TABLE 1: SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
                      For the years ended December 31 ($ in
 millions, except for per share data) 
 2013 
  2012 
  2011 
  2010 
  2009 
  Income Statement Data
             
          Net interest income
(a) $ 3,581 
  3,613 
3,575 
   3,622 
  3,373 
Noninterest income  3,227 
  2,999 
2,455 
   2,729 
  4,782 
       Total revenue
(a)   6,808 
  6,612 
6,030 
6,351 
8,155 
Provision for loan and lease losses 
 229 
  303 
423 
   1,538 
  3,543 
Noninterest expense  3,961 
  4,081 
3,758 
   3,855 
  3,826 
Net income attributable to Bancorp 
 1,836 
  1,576 
  1,297 
 753 
  737 
  Net income available to common shareholders 
 1,799 
  1,541 
  1,094 
 503 
  511 
  Common Share Data
      Earnings per share, basic 
$2.05 
  1.69 
  1.20 
0.63 
  0.73 
  Earnings per share, diluted 
 2.02 
  1.66 
  1.18 
0.63 
  0.67 
  Cash dividends per common share 
 0.47 
  0.36 
0.28 
0.04 
  0.04 
Book value per share 
 15.85   15.10 
13.92 
13.06 
  12.44 
Market value per share 
 21.03 
  15.20 
12.72 
  14.68 
  9.75 
Financial Ratios (%)
            Return on average assets 
 1.48 %1.34 
  1.15 
0.67 
  0.64 
  Return on average common equity 
 13.1   11.6 
  9.0 
5.0 
  5.6 
  Dividend payout ratio 
 22.9 
  21.3 
23.3 
6.3 
5.5 
  Average Bancorp shareholders' equity as a percent of average assets 
 11.56   11.65 
  11.41 
12.22 
  11.36 
  Tangible common equity
(b)   8.63 
  8.83 
8.68 
7.04 
  6.45 
Net interest margin
(a)   3.32 
  3.55 
3.66 
3.66 
  3.32 
Efficiency
(a)   58.2 
  61.7 
62.3 
60.7 
  46.9 
Credit Quality 
        Net losses charged off  
$501 
  704 
1,172 
   2,328 
  2,581 
Net losses charged off as a per
cent of average loans and leases
(d)   0.58 
%0.85 
1.49 
  3.02 
  3.20 
ALLL as a percent of portfolio loans and leases 
 1.79   2.16 
2.78 
  3.88 
  4.88 
Allowance for credit losses as a percent of portfolio loans and leases
(c)   1.97   2.37 
3.01 
  4.17 
  5.27 
Nonperforming assets as a percent of
 portfolio loans, leases and other 
            assets, including other real estate owned
(d)   1.10   1.49 
2.23 
  2.79 
  4.22 
Average Balances
        Loans and leases, including held for sale 
$89,093 
  84,822 
  80,214 
   79,232 
  83,391 
  Total securities and other short-term investments 
 18,861   16,814 
  17,468 
   19,699 
  18,135 
  Total assets 
 123,732 
  117,614 
  112,666 
   112,434 
  114,856 
  Transaction deposits
(e)   82,915 
  78,116 
  72,392 
   65,662 
  55,235 
  Core deposits
(f)   86,675 
  82,422 
  78,652 
   76,188 
  69,338 
  Wholesale funding
(g)   17,797   16,978 
  16,939 
   18,917 
  28,539 
  Bancorp shareholders™ equity 
 14,302   13,701 
  12,851 
 13,737 
  13,053 
  Regulatory Capital Ratios (%)
          Tier I risk-based capital 
 10.36 %10.65 
11.91 
   13.89 
   13.30 
  Total risk-based capital  
 14.08   14.42 
16.09 
   18.08 
   17.48 
  Tier I leverage 
 9.64 
  10.05 
11.10 
   12.79 
   12.34 
  Tier I common equity(b)   9.39 
  9.51 
9.35 
   7.48 
   6.99 
  (a) Amounts presented on an FTE basis. The FTE adjustment for years ended 
December 31, 2013
, 2012, 2011, 2010, and 2009 were 
$20, 
$18, $18, $18 and $19, respectively.
 (b) The tangible common equity and Tier I common equity ratios are 
non-GAAP measures. For further information, see the Non-GAAP Fin
ancial Measures section of the MD&A. 
(c) The allowance for credit losses is the sum of the 
ALLL and the reserve for unfunded commitments. 
(d) Excludes nonaccrual loans held for sale. 
(e) Includes demand, interest checking, savings, money market and foreign office deposits. 
(f) Includes transaction deposits plus other time deposits. 
(g) Includes certificates $100,000 and 
over, other deposits, federal funds purchased, 
other short-term borrowings and long-term deb
t. 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  16  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 OVERVIEW Fifth Third Bancorp is a diversified financial services company 
headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio. At December 31, 2013, the 
Bancorp had $130.4 billion in asse
ts, operated 17 affiliates with 
1,320 full-service Banking Centers, including 104 Bank Mart® 

locations open seven days a week inside select grocery stores, and 

2,586 ATMs in 12 states throughout the Midwestern and 

Southeastern regions of the U.S. The Bancorp reports on four 

business segments: Commercial Banking, Branch Banking, 

Consumer Lending and Investment Advisors. The Bancorp also has 

a 25% interest in Vantiv Holding, LLC. The carrying value of the 
Bancorp™s investment in Vantiv Ho
lding, LLC was $423 million as 
of December 31, 2013. 
This overview of MD&A highlights selected information in the 
financial results of the Bancorp and may not contain all of the 

information that is important 
to you. For a more complete 
understanding of trends, even
ts, commitments, uncertainties, liquidity, capital resources and critical accounting policies and 

estimates, you should carefully read
 this entire document. Each of 
these items could have an impact on the Bancorp™s financial 
condition, results of operations and 
cash flows. In addition, see the 
Glossary of Abbreviations and Acron
yms in this report for a list of 
terms included as a tool for the reader of this annual report on 

Form 10-K. The abbreviations and acronyms identified therein are 

used throughout this MD&A, as we
ll as the Consolidated Financial 
Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
The Bancorp believes that banking is first and foremost a 
relationship business where the strength of the competition and 
challenges for growth can vary in every market. The Bancorp 

believes its affiliate operating model provides a competitive 

advantage by emphasizing individual relationships. Through its 

affiliate operating model, individual
 managers at all levels within the 
affiliates are given the opportunity
 to tailor financial solutions for 
their customers. Net interest income, net interest margin and the efficiency ratio 
are presented in MD&A on an FTE basis. The FTE basis adjusts 
for the tax-favored status of 
income from certain loans and 
securities held by the Bancorp 
that are not taxable for federal 
income tax purposes. The Bancorp believes this presentation to be 

the preferred industry measurement of net interest income as it 

provides a relevant comparison between taxable and non-taxable 

amounts.  The Bancorp™s revenues are dependent on both net interest 
income and noninterest income. For the year ended December 31, 
2013, net interest income, on a FTE basis, and noninterest income 

provided 53% and 47% of total revenue, respectively. The Bancorp 

derives the majority of its revenues
 within the U.S. from customers 
domiciled in the United States. Re
venue from foreign countries and 
external customers domiciled in foreign countries is immaterial to 

the Bancorp™s Consolidated Fi
nancial Statements. Changes in 
interest rates, credit quality, econom
ic trends and the capital markets 
are primary factors that drive the performance of the Bancorp. As 
discussed later in the Risk Manag
ement section, risk identification, 
measurement, monitoring, control and reporting are important to 

the management of risk and to the financial performance and capital 

strength of the Bancorp.  
Net interest income is the difference between interest income 
earned on assets such as loans, le
ases and securities, and interest 
expense incurred on liabilities su
ch as deposits, short-term 
borrowings and long-term debt. Net interest income is affected by 
the general level of interest rates, 
the relative level of short-term and 
long-term interest rates, changes in
 interest rates and changes in the 
amount and composition of interest-earning assets and interest-

bearing liabilities. Generally, the rate
s of interest the Bancorp earns 
on its assets and pays on its liabilities are established for a period of 
time. The change in market interest rates over time exposes the 
Bancorp to interest rate risk through potential adverse changes to 
net interest income and financial position. The Bancorp manages 
this risk by continually analyzing and adjusting the composition of 

its assets and liabilities based on their payment streams and interest 

rates, the timing of their maturiti
es and their sensitivity to changes 
in market interest rates. Addition
ally, in the ordinary course of 
business, the Bancorp enters into certain derivative transactions as 

part of its overall strategy to manage its interest rate and prepayment 
risks. The Bancorp is also exposed to the risk of losses on its loan 
and lease portfolio as a result of changing expected cash flows 
caused by borrower credit events
, such as loan defaults and 
inadequate collateral due to 
a weakened economy within the 
Bancorp™s footprint. 
Noninterest income is derived primarily from mortgage 
banking net revenue, service charges on deposits, corporate banking 

revenue, investment advisory revenu
e, card and processing revenue 
and other noninterest income. Noninterest expense is primarily 
driven by personnel costs, net occupancy expenses, and technology 
and communication costs. 
 
Vantiv, Inc. Share Sales  

The Bancorp™s ownership position in Vantiv Holding, LLC was 

reduced in the second quarter of 2013 when the Bancorp sold an 

approximate five percent interest and recognized a $242 million 

gain. The Bancorp™s ownership posit
ion was further reduced in the 
third quarter of 2013 when the Bancorp sold an approximate three 
percent interest and recognized an $85 million gain. The Bancorp™s 

remaining approximate 25% ownership in Vantiv Holding, LLC 

continues to be accounted for as 
an equity method investment in 
the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements and had a carrying 

value of $423 million as of December, 31, 2013.  
As of December 31, 2013, the Bancorp continued to hold 
approximately 48.8 million Class B units of Vantiv Holding, LLC 
and a warrant to purchase appr
oximately 20.4 million Class C non-
voting units of Vantiv Holding, LLC, both of which may be 

exchanged for Class A Common Stock of Vantiv, Inc. on a one for 

one basis or at Vantiv, Inc.™s 
option for cash. In addition, the 
Bancorp holds approximately 48.8 million Class B common shares 

of Vantiv, Inc. The Class B common shares give the Bancorp voting 

rights, but no economic interest in Vantiv, Inc. The voting rights 

attributable to the Class B common shares are limited to 18.5% of 
the voting power in Vantiv, Inc. at any time other than in 
connection with a stockholder vote with respect to a change in 

control in Vantiv, Inc. These securi
ties are subject to certain terms 
and restrictions. 
 
Redemption of TruPS 

The Bancorp redeemed all $750 million of the outstanding TruPS 

issued by Fifth Third Capital Trust IV on December 30, 2013. For 
more information on the redemption of these instruments, see the 
Capital Management section of MD&A. 

 
Accelerated Share Repurchase Transactions 

During 2013 and 2012, the Bancorp entered into a number of 

accelerated share repurchase transactions. As part of these 

transactions, the Bancorp entered into forward contracts in which 

the final number of shares to be delivered at settlement was or will 
be based generally on a discount to the average daily volume-
weighted average price of the Bancorp™s common stock during the 

term of the Repurchase Agreement. For more information on the 

accounting for these instruments, see the Capital Management 

section of MD&A. For a summary of all accelerated share 

repurchase transactions during 2013 and 2012 refer to Table 2.  
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  17  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  TABLE 2: SUMMARY OF ACCELERATED SHARE REPURCHASE TRANSACTIONS
 Shares Received from Forward 
Contract Settlement     Repurchase Date
    Amount ($ in millions) 
Shares Repurchased 
    Settlement Date 
April 26, 2012 
  $  75 
 4,838,710 
 631,986 
    June 1, 2012
August 28, 2012 
     350 
 21,531,100 
 1,444,047 
    October 24, 2012
November 9, 2012 
   125 
 7,710,761 
 657,914 
    February 12, 2013
December 19, 2012 
    100 
 6,267,410 
 127,760 
    February 27, 2013
January 31, 2013 
    125 
 6,953,028 
 849,037 
    April 5, 2013
May 24, 2013 
    539 
 25,035,519 
 4,270,250 
    October 1, 2013
November 18, 2013 
    200 
 8,538,423 
(a)(a)December 13, 2013
     456 
 19,084,195 
(b)(b)January 31, 2014
     99 
 3,950,705 
(b)(b)(a) The Bancorp expects the settlement 
of this transaction to occur on or before February 28, 2014. 
(b) The Bancorp expects the settlement 
of these transactions to occur on
 or before March 26, 2014.  
  Preferred Stock Offerings and Conversion 
During 2013, the Bancorp had two preferred stock offerings and 
converted the outstanding Series G preferred stock into Fifth Third 

common stock. A description of the preferred stock offerings and 

conversion is below. For more information, see Note 23 in the 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
As contemplated by the 2013 CCAR, on May 16, 2013 the 
Bancorp issued in a registered public offering 600,000 depositary 

shares, representing 24,000 shares 
of 5.10% fixed-to-floating rate 
non-cumulative Series H perpetual 
preferred stock, for net proceeds 
of $593 million. The Series H pref
erred shares are not convertible 
into Bancorp common shares or any other securities. On June 11, 

2013, the Bancorp™s Board of Direct
ors authorized the conversion 
into common stock, no par value, of all outstanding shares of the 

Bancorp™s 8.50% non-cumulative c
onvertible perpetual preferred stock, Series G. On July 1, 2013, the Bancorp converted the 

remaining 16,442 outstanding shares 
of Series G preferred stock, 
which represented 4,110,500 depositary 
shares, into shares of Fifth 
Third™s common stock. On December 9, 2013, the Bancorp issued, 

in a registered public offe
ring, 18,000,000 depositary shares, representing 18,000 shares of 6.625% fixed-to-floating rate non-

cumulative Series I perpetual pref
erred stock, for net proceeds of 
$441 million. The Series I preferred shares are not convertible into 

Bancorp common shares or any other securities.  

 Senior Notes and Subordinated Notes Offering 
On February 25, 2013, the Bancor
p™s banking subsidiary updated 
and amended its existing global bank note program. The amended 

global bank note program increased th
e Bank™s capacity to issue its 
senior and subordinated unsecured bank notes from $20 billion to 

$25 billion. Additionally, on February 28, 2013, the Bank issued and 

sold, under its amended bank notes program, $1.3 billion in 

aggregate principal amount of un
secured senior bank notes. The 
bank notes consisted of: $600 million of 1.45% senior fixed rate 
notes due on February 28, 2018; $400 million of 0.90% senior fixed 

rate notes due on February 26, 2016; and $300 million of senior 

floating rate notes. Interest on th
e floating rate notes is 3-month 
LIBOR plus 41 bps due on February 26, 2016. The bank notes will 

be redeemable by the Bank, in whole or in part, on or after the date 

that is 30 days prior to the maturi
ty date at a redemption price equal 
to 100% of the principal amount pl
us accrued and unpaid interest 
through the redemption date. 
On November 20, 2013, the Bancorp issued and sold $750 
million of 4.30% unsecured subordinated fixed rate notes with a 

maturity date of January 16, 2024. These fixed rate notes will be 

redeemable by the Bancorp, in whole or in part, on or after the date 

that is 30 days prior to the maturi
ty date at a redemption price equal 
to 100% of the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest  
up to, but excluding, the redemption date. Additionally, on November 20, 2013, the Bank issued and sold, 
under its amended bank notes program, $1.8 billion in aggregate 

principal amount of unsecured senior bank notes. The bank notes 

consisted of: $1 billion of 1.15% senior fixed rate notes due on 

November 18, 2016 and $750 million of senior floating rate notes 

due on November 18, 2016. Interest on the floating rate notes is 3-

month LIBOR plus 51 bps. These bank notes will be redeemable by 

the Bank, in whole or in part, on or after the date that is 30 days 
prior to the maturity date at a redemption price equal to 100% of 
the principal amount plus accrued 
and unpaid interest through the 
redemption date. 
 
Automobile Loan Securitizations 

In March of 2013, the Bancorp recognized an immaterial loss on the 

securitization and sale of certain automobile loans with a carrying 

amount of approximately $509 mill
ion. As part of the sale, the 
Bancorp obtained servicing responsibilities and recognized a 
servicing asset with an initial fair value of $6 million. 
In August of 2013, the Bancorp 
transferred approximately $1.3 
billion in fixed-rate consumer automobile loans to a bankruptcy 

remote trust which was deemed to be a VIE. The Bancorp 

concluded that it is the primary beneficiary of the VIE and, 

therefore, has consolidated this 
VIE. For additional information on 
the automobile loan securitizati
ons, refer to the Liquidity Risk 
Management section of MD&A. 
  
Legislative Developments 

On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank 
Act was signed into federal law. 
This act implements changes to th
e financial services industry and 
affects the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating 

activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The 

legislation establishes a CFPB responsible for implementing and 
enforcing compliance with consumer
 financial laws, changes the 
methodology for determining deposit insurance assessments, gives 

the FRB the ability to regulate and limit interchange rates charged to 

merchants for the use of debit cards, enacts new limitations on 

proprietary trading, broadens the scope of derivative instruments 

subject to regulation, require
s on-going stress tests and the submission of annual capital plan
s for certain organizations and 
requires changes to regulatory capital ratios. This act also calls for 
federal regulatory agencies to conduc
t multiple studies over the next 
several years in order to implemen
t its provisions. While the total 
impact of the fully implemented Dodd-Frank Act on the Bancorp is 

not currently known, the impact is
 expected to be substantial and 
may have an adverse impact on the Bancorp™s financial performance 

and growth opportunities. 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  18  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The Bancorp was impacted by a number of components of the 
Dodd-Frank Act which were im
plemented in 2012 and 2013. On 
October 9, 2012, the FRB published final stress testing rules that 

implement section 165(i)(1) and (i)(2) of the Dodd-Frank Act. The 
BHC™s that participated in the 2009 SCAP and subsequent CCAR, 
which includes the Bancorp, are subject to the final stress testing 

rules. The rules require both su
pervisory and company-run stress tests, which provide forward-lookin
g information to supervisors to 
help assess whether institutions ha
ve sufficient capital to absorb 
losses and support operations during adverse economic conditions.  
The FRB launched the 2013 capital planning and stress testing 
program on November 9, 2012. The program includes the CCAR, 
which included the 19 BHCs that participated in the 2009 SCAP, as 
well as the CapPR which includes an additional 11 BHCs with $50 

billion or more of total consolidated assets. The mandatory 

elements of the capital plan were 
an assessment of the expected use 
and sources of capital over the planning horizon, a description of all 

planned capital actions over the p
lanning horizon, a discussion of 
any expected changes to the Bancorp™
s business plan that are likely 
to have a material impact on its capital adequacy or liquidity, a 
detailed description of the Bancor
p™s process for assessing capital 
adequacy and the Bancorp™s capital policy. The stress testing results 

and capital plan were submitted by the Bancorp to the FRB on 

January 7, 2013. In March of 2013, the FRB disclosed its estimates 

of participating institutions™ result
s under the FRB supervisory stress 
scenario, including capital results, which assume all banks take 

certain consistently applied future 
capital actions. In addition, the 
FRB disclosed its estimates of pa
rticipating institutions™ results 
under the FRB supervisory severe stress scenarios including capital 
results based on each company™s ow
n base scenario capital actions.  
 The FRB™s review of the capital plan assessed the 
comprehensiveness of the capital plan, the reasonableness of the 

assumptions and the analysis underlying the capital plan. 

Additionally, the FRB reviewed the robustness of the capital 

adequacy process, the capital policy and the Bancorp™s ability to 

maintain capital above the minimu
m regulatory capital ratios and 
above a Tier I common ratio of five percent on a pro forma basis 
under expected and stressful conditions throughout the planning 

horizon. The FRB assessed the Bancorp™s strategies for addressing 

proposed revisions to the regulato
ry capital framework agreed upon 
by the BCBS and requirements arising from the Dodd-Frank Act. 
In March 2013, the FRB announced it had completed the 2013 
CCAR. For BHCs that proposed capi
tal distributions in their plan, 
the FRB either objected to the plan or provided a non-objection 
whereby the FRB concurred with the proposed 2013 capital 
distributions. The FRB indicated to
 the Bancorp that it did not 
object to the following proposed capital actions for the period 

beginning April 1, 2013 and ending March 31, 2014: 
 Increase in the quarterly common stock dividend to 
$0.12 per share;  Repurchase of up to $750 million in TruPS subject to 
the determination of a regulatory capital event and 
replacement with the issuance of a similar amount of 

Tier II-qualifying subordinated debt; 
 Conversion of the $398 million in outstanding Series 
G 8.5% convertible preferred stock into 
approximately 35.5 million common shares issued to 

the holders. The Bancorp would intend to repurchase 

common shares equivalent to those issued in the 
conversion up to $550 million in market value, and 
issue $550 million in preferred stock; 
 Repurchase of common shares in an amount up to 
$984 million, including any shares issued in a Series G preferred stock conversion; 
 Incremental repurchase of common shares in the 
amount of any after-tax gains from the sale of Vantiv, 
Inc. stock; and 
 Issuance of an additional $500 million in preferred 
stock. 
Beginning in 2013, the Bancorp 
and other large bank holding 
companies were required to conduct a separate mid-year stress test 

using financial data as of March 31
st under three company-derived 
macro-economic scenarios (base, adverse and severely adverse). The 
Bancorp submitted the results of it
s mid-year stress test to the FRB 
in July of 2013 and the Bancorp published a summary of the results 

under the severely adverse scenar
io in September of 2013 which is 
available on Fifth Third™s website at 
https://www.53.com. The FRB 
launched the 2014 stress testing program and CCAR on November 

1, 2013. The stress testing results and capital plan were submitted by 

the Bancorp to the FRB on January 
6, 2014. For further discussion 
on the 2013 and 2014 Stress Tests and CCAR, see the Capital 
Management section in MD&A. 
Fifth Third offers qualified deposit customers a deposit 
advance product if they choose to avail themselves of this service to 

meet short term, small-dollar financial needs. In April of 2013, the 

CFPB issued a ﬁWhite Paperﬂ which studied financial services 

industry offerings and customer use of deposit advance products as 

well as payday loans and is cons
idering whether rules governing these products are warranted. At the same time, the OCC and FDIC 
each issued proposed supervisor
y guidance for public comment to 
institutions they supervise wh
ich supplements existing OCC and 
FDIC guidance, detailing the prin
ciples they expect financial 
institutions to follow in connecti
on with deposit advance products 
and supervisory expectations for the use of deposit advance 

products. The Federal Reserve also issued a statement in April to 

state member banks like Fifth Third for whom the Federal Reserve 

is the primary regulator. This statement encouraged state member 
banks to respond to customers™ small-dollar credit needs in a 
responsible manner; emphasized that they should take into 

consideration the risks associated with deposit advance products, 

including potential consumer harm and potential elevated 

compliance risk; and reminded them that these product offerings 

must comply with applicable la
ws and regulations. Fifth Third™s 
deposit advance product is designed to fully comply with the 

applicable federal and state laws and 
use of this product is subject to 
strict eligibility requirements and 
advance restriction guidelines to 
limit dependency on this product as a borrowing source. Fifth Third 

believes this product provides customers with a relatively low-cost 

alternative for such needs. On January 17, 2014, given 

developments in industry practice, Fifth Third announced that it will no longer enroll new customers in its deposit advance product and 

will phase out the service to existi
ng customers by the end of 2014. 
These advance balances are included in other consumer loans and 
leases in the Bancorp™s Consolidated Balance Sheets and represent 
substantially all of the revenue reporte
d in interest and fees on other 
consumer loans and leases in
 the Bancorp™s Consolidated 
Statements of Income and in Table 5 in the Statements of Income 

Analysis section of the MD&A. Fifth Third has been monitoring 

industry developments and is wo
rking to develop and implement 
alternative products and services in order to address the needs of its 

customers. The Bancorp is currently in the process of evaluating the 
impact to the Bancorp™s Consolid
ated Financial Statements of both 
the phase out of our deposit advance product and our development 

of alternative products and services. 
In December of 2010 and revised in June of 2011, the BCBS 
issued Basel III, a global regulatory framework, to enhance 

international capital standards. In June of 2012, U.S. banking 

regulators proposed enhancements to the regulatory capital 

requirements for U.S. banks, which implement aspects of Basel III, 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  19  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 such as re-defining the regulator
y capital elements and minimum 
capital ratios, introducing regulatory capital buffers above those 

minimums, revising the agencies™ ru
les for calculating risk-weighted 
assets and introducing a new Tier I common equity ratio. In July of 

2013, U.S. banking regulators approved the final enhanced 
regulatory capital rules (Basel III Final Rule), which included 
modifications to the proposed rules. The Bancorp continues to 

evaluate the Basel III Final Rule and its potential impact. For more 

information on the impact of the regulatory capital enhancements, 

refer to the Capital Management section of MD&A. 
On December 10, 2013, the banking 
agencies finalized section 
619 of the DFA known as the Volcker Rule, which becomes 

effective April 1, 2014. Though the 
final rule is effective April 1, 
2014, the Federal Reserve has granted the industry an extension of 
time until July 21, 2015 to conform activities to be in compliance 

with the Volcker Rule. It is possible that additional conformance 

period extensions could be granted either to the entire industry, or, 

upon request, to requesting banking 
organizations on a case-by-case 
basis. The final rule prohibits 
banks and bank holding companies 
from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, 

derivatives, commodity futures 
and options on these instruments 
for their own account. The Volcke
r Rule also restricts banks and 
their affiliated entities from ow
ning, sponsoring or having certain 
relationships with private equity and hedge funds. Exemptions are 

provided for certain activities such
 as underwriting, market making, 
hedging, trading in certain gove
rnment obligations and organizing 
and offering a hedge fund or priv
ate equity fund. Fifth Third does 
not sponsor any private equity or hedge funds that, under the final 

rule, it is prohibited from sponsoring. As of December 31, 2013, the 
Bancorp had approximately $181 million in interests and 
approximately $80 million in binding commitments to invest in 

private equity funds that are affected by the Volcker Rule. It is 

expected that over time the Bancorp may need to sell or redeem 

these investments although it is likel
y that these investments will be 
reduced over time in the ordinary course before compliance is 

required.  In November 2010, the FDIC implemented a final rule 
amending its deposit insurance re
gulations to implement section 343 
of the Dodd-Frank Act providing for unlimited deposit insurance 

for noninterest-bearing transaction 
accounts for two years starting 
December 31, 2010. The FDIC did not charge a separate 

assessment for the insurance unlike the previous Transaction 

Account Guarantee Program. Beginning January 1, 2013, 
noninterest-bearing transaction a
ccounts are no longer insured 
separately from depositors™ other accounts at the same insured 

depository institution.   
On January 7, 2013, the BCBS issued a final international 
standard for the LCR for large, inte
rnationally active banks, which 
would phase in the LCR beginning in 2015 with full implementation 
in 2019. In addition, the BCBS p
lans on introducing the NSFR final 
standard in the next two years. On October 24, 2013, the U.S. 

banking agencies issued an NPR that would implement a LCR 

requirement for U.S. banks that is generally consistent with the 

international LCR standards for large
, internationally active banking 
organizations, generally those with $250 billion or more in total 

consolidated assets or $10 billion or more in on-balance sheet 
foreign exposure, and a Modified 
LCR for BHCs with at least $50 
billion in total consolidated assets 
that are not internationally active, 
like Fifth Third. The NPR was open for public comment until 

January 31, 2014. Refer to the Liqui
dity Risk Management section in 
MD&A for further discussion on these ratios.  
 On July 31, 2013, the U.S. District Court for the District of 
Columbia issued an order granting summary judgment to the 

plaintiffs in a case challenging cert
ain provisions of the FRB™s rule 
concerning electronic debit card
 transaction fees and network 
exclusivity arrangements (the ﬁCurrent
 Ruleﬂ) that were adopted to 
implement Section 1075 of the Dodd-Frank Act, known as the 

Durbin Amendment. The Court held that, in adopting the Current 

Rule, the FRB violated the Durbin Amendment™s provisions 

concerning which costs are allowed to be taken into account for 

purposes of setting fees that are reasonable and proportional to the 

costs incurred by the issuer and therefore the Current Rule™s 
maximum permissible fees were t
oo high. In addition, the Court 
held that the Current Rule™s ne
twork non-exclusivity provisions 
concerning unaffiliated payment networks for debit cards also 

violated the Durbin Amendment.
 The Court vacated the Current 
Rule, but stayed its ruling to provide the FRB an opportunity to 

replace the invalidated portions. The FRB has appealed this 

decision. If this decision is ultimately upheld and/or the FRB re-

issues rules for purposes of im
plementing the Durbin Amendment 
in a manner consistent with this decision, the amount of debit card 
interchange fees the Bancorp would be permitted to charge likely 

would be reduced. Refer to the Noninterest Income subsection of 

the Statements of Income Analysis section of MD&A for further 

information regarding the Bancorp™s debit card interchange revenue. 
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  20  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 3: CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                    For the years ended December 31 ($ 
in millions, except per share data)
 2013 
 2012 
 2011  
2010  
2009  
Interest income (FTE) 
$3,993 
4,125 
4,236 
4,507 
4,687 
Interest expense 
 412 
512 
661 
885 
1,314 
Net interest income (FTE)
  3,581 
3,613 
3,575 
3,622 
3,373 
Provision for loan and lease losses 
 229 
303 
423 
1,538 
3,543 
Net interest income (loss) after prov
ision for loan and lease losses (FTE)
  3,352 
3,310 
3,152 
2,084 
(170)
Noninterest income  3,227 
2,999 
2,455 
2,729 
4,782 
Noninterest expense  3,961 
4,081 
3,758 
3,855 
3,826 
Income before income taxes (FTE)
  2,618 
2,228 
1,849 
958 
786 
Fully taxable equivalent adjustment 
 20 
18 
18 
18 
19 
Applicable income tax expense 
 772 
636 
533 
187 
30 
Net income
  1,826 
1,574 
1,298 
753 
737 
Less: Net income attributab
le to noncontrolling interests 
 (10)(2)
1 - - Net income attributable to Bancorp
  1,836 
1,576 
1,297 
753 
737 
Dividends on preferred stock 
 37 
35 
203 
250 
226 
Net income available to common shareholders
 $1,799 
1,541 
1,094 
503 
511 
Earnings per share 
$ 2.05 
 1.69 
 1.20 
 0.63 
 0.73 
Earnings per diluted share 
  2.02 
 1.66 
 1.18 
 0.63 
 0.67 
Cash dividends declared per common share 
$ 0.47 
 0.36 
 0.28 
 0.04 
 0.04 
         Earnings Summary 
The Bancorp™s net income available to common shareholders for 

the year ended December 31, 2013 was
 $1.8 billion, or $2.02 per 
diluted share, which was net of $37 million in preferred stock 
dividends. The Bancorp™s net 
income available to common 
shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2012 was $1.5 billion, 

or $1.66 per diluted share, which was net of $35 million in preferred 

stock dividends. Pre-provision net 
revenue was $2.8 billion and $2.5 
billion for the years ended 2013 and 2012, respectively. Pre-

provision net revenue is a non-GAAP measure. For further 

information, see the Non-GAAP Fi
nancial Measures section in the 
MD&A. Net interest income was $3.6 billion for the years ended 
December 31, 2013 and 2012. Net inte
rest income was negatively 
impacted by a decline of 36 bps in yields on the Bancorp™s interest-

earning assets, partially offset by a $4.3 billion increase in average 

loans and leases due primarily to
 increases in average commercial 
and industrial loans and average residential mortgage loans
. In 
addition, interest expense decreased primarily due to a decrease in 
rates paid on average long-term debt and a reduction in higher cost 

average long-term debt. Net interest margin was 3.32% and 3.55% 

for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 
Noninterest income increased $228 million, or eight percent, in 
2013 compared to 2012. The increa
se from the prior year was 
primarily due to increases in other noninterest income partially 

offset by decreases in mortgage banking net revenue. Other 
noninterest income increased $305 million compared to the prior 
year, primarily due to positive valuation adjustments on the stock 

warrant associated with Vantiv 
Holding, LLC. In addition, the 
Bancorp recognized gains of $242 million and $85 million, on the 

sale of Vantiv, Inc. shares in the 
second and third quarters of 2013, 
respectively, compared to gains of $115 million related to the 

Vantiv, Inc. IPO recorded in the first quarter of 2012 and a $157 

million gain on the sale of Vantiv 
shares during the fourth quarter 
of 2012. Mortgage banking net revenue decreased $145 million for 
the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to the prior year 

primarily due to a decrease in origination fees and gains on loan 

sales partially offset by an increase in positive net valuation 

adjustments on mortgage servic
ing rights and free-standing 
derivatives entered into to economically  hedge the MSR portfolio.  
Noninterest expense decreased $
120 million, or three percent, 
in 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to a decrease in other 
noninterest expense driven by a decrease in debt extinguishment 
costs and a decrease in the provision for representation and 
warranty claims partially offset by an increase in litigation expense.  
 Credit Summary 
The Bancorp does not originate subprime mortgage loans and does 
not hold asset-backed securities ba
cked by subprime mortgage loans 
in its securities portfolio. However, the Bancorp has exposure to 

disruptions in the capital markets and weakened economic 

conditions. During 2013, credit trends have improved, and as a 

result, the provision for loan and lease losses decreased to $229 

million in 2013 compared to $303 million in 2012. In addition, net 

charge-offs as a percent of aver
age portfolio loans and leases 
decreased to 0.58% during 2013 compared to 0.85% during 2012. 
At December 31, 2013, nonperforming assets as a percent of loans, 

leases and other assets, including OREO (excluding nonaccrual 

loans held for sale) decreased to
 1.10%, compared to 1.49% at 
December 31, 2012. For further discu
ssion on credit quality, see the 
Credit Risk Management section in MD&A. 

 
Capital Summary 
The Bancorp™s capital ratios exceed
 the ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ guidelines 
as defined by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 

System. As of December 31, 2013, the 
Tier I risk-based capital ratio 
was 10.36%, the Tier I leverage ratio was 9.64% and the total risk-

based capital ratio was 14.08%. 
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  21  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES 
The Bancorp considers various measures when evaluating capital 
utilization and adequacy, including the 
tangible equity ratio, tangible 
common equity ratio and Tier I common equity ratio, in addition to 
capital ratios defined by banking 
regulators. These calculations are 
intended to complement the capital ratios defined by banking 

regulators for both absolute and 
comparative purposes. Because 
U.S. GAAP does not include capital ratio measures, the Bancorp 

believes there are no comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures to 

these ratios. These ratios are not formally defined by U.S. GAAP or 

codified in the federal banking 
regulations and, therefore, are 
considered to be non-GAAP fina
ncial measures. Since analysts and 
banking regulators may assess the Bancorp™s capital adequacy using 
these ratios, the Bancorp believes they are useful to provide 

investors the ability to assess its capital adequacy on the same basis. 
The Bancorp believes these non-GAAP measures are 
important because they reflect the level of capital available to 

withstand unexpected market c
onditions. Additionally, presentation of these measures allows readers to compare certain aspects of the 

Bancorp™s capitalization to other 
organizations. However, because 
there are no standardized definitions for these ratios, the Bancorp™s 
calculations may not be comparab
le with other organizations, and 
the usefulness of these measures to investors may be limited. As a 
result, the Bancorp encourages readers to consider its Consolidated 
Financial Statements in their entirety and not to rely on any single 

financial measure.  
U.S. banking regulators approved 
final capital rules (Basel III 
Final Rule) in July of 2013 that subs
tantially amend the existing risk-
based capital rules (Basel I) for banks.  The Bancorp believes 

providing an estimate of its ca
pital position based upon the final 
rules is important to complement th
e existing capital ratios and for 
comparability to other financial institutions.  Since these rules are 
not effective for the Bancorp until January 1, 2015, they are 

considered non-GAAP measures and therefore are included in the 

following non-GAAP financial measures table. 
Pre-provision net revenue is net interest income plus 
noninterest income minus noninterest expense. The Bancorp 

believes this measure is important because it provides a ready view 

of the Bancorp™s earnings before the impact of provision expense. 
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  22  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following table reconciles non-GAAP
 financial measures to U.S. GAAP as of and for the years ended December 31:
               TABLE 4: NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
            ($ in millions)
   2013  
 2012  
   Income before income taxes (U.S. GAAP)
 $  2,598 
  2,210 
  Add: Provision expense (U.S. GAAP)
    229 
  303 
  Pre-provision net revenue
    2,827 
  2,513 
         Net income available to common shareholders (U.S. GAAP)
 $  1,799 
 1,541 
Add: Intangible amortization, net of tax
    5 
 9 
Tangible net income available to common shareholders
    1,804 
 1,550 
    Total Bancorp shareholders™ equity (U.S. GAAP)
 $  14,589 
 13,716 
 Less:  Preferred stock
    (1,034)
 (398)
           Goodwill
    (2,416)
 (2,416)
           Intangible assets
    (19)
 (27)
 Tangible common equity, including unrealized gains / losses
    11,120 
 10,875 
 Less:  Accumulated other comprehensive income
    (82)
 (375)
 Tangible common equity, excluding unrealized gains / losses (1)
    11,038 
 10,500 
 Add:   Preferred stock
    1,034 
 398 
 Tangible equity (2)
    12,072 
 10,898 
       Total assets (U.S. GAAP)
 $  130,443 
 121,894 
 Less:  Goodwill
    (2,416)
 (2,416)
          Intangible assets
    (19)
 (27)
          Accumulated other comprehensive income, before tax
    (126)
 (577)
Tangible assets, excluding unrealized gains / losses (3)
 $  127,882 
 118,874 
      Total Bancorp shareholders™ equity (U.S. GAAP)
 $  14,589 
 13,716 
 Less:  Goodwill and certain other intangibles
    (2,492)
 (2,499)
          Accumulated other comprehensive income
    (82)
 (375)
 Add:  Qualifying TruPS
    60 
 810 
          Other
    19 
 33 
 Tier I risk-based capital
    12,094 
 11,685 
Less: Preferred stock
    (1,034)
 (398)
          Qualifying TruPS
    (60)
 (810)
          Qualified noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries
    (37)
 (48)
 Tier I common equity (4)
 $  10,963 
 10,429 
      Risk-weighted assets (5)
(a) $  116,736 
 109,699 
        Ratios:                Tangible equity (2) / (3)
   9.44 
% 9.17 
           Tangible common equity (1) / (3)
   8.63 
% 8.83 
           Tier I common equity (4) / (5)
   9.39 
% 9.51 
              Basel III Final Rule - Estimated 
Tier I common equity ratio
            Tier I common equity (Basel I) 
$  10,963 
       Add: Adjustment related to capital components
(b)    82 
       Estimated Tier I common equity under Basel 
III Final Rule without AOCI (opt out) (6) 
   11,045 
       Add: Adjustment related to AOCI
(c)    82 
       Estimated Tier I common equity under Basel III Final Rule with AOCI (non opt out) (7)  
   11,127 
       Estimated risk-weighted assets under Basel III Final Rule (8)
(d)    122,851 
       Estimated Tier I common equity ratio under Basel III Final Rule (opt out) (6) / (8)  
  8.99 
%     Estimated Tier I common equity ratio under Basel III Final Rule (non opt out) (7) / (8) 
  9.06 
%     (a) Under the banking agencies™ risk-based capital guidelines, assets 
and credit equivalent amounts of derivatives and off-balance 
sheet exposures are assigned to broad 
risk categories. The aggregate dollar 
amount in each risk category is multiplied by the associated 
risk weight of the category. Th
e resulting weighted values are add
ed together, along with the measure 
for market risk, resulting in the 
Bancorp™s total risk-weighted assets. 
(b) Adjustments related to capital components include MSRs and defe
rred tax assets subject to threshold limitations and deferred ta
x liabilities related to intangible assets, which were deductions to 
capital under Basel I capital rules. 
(c) Under final Basel III rules, non-advanced approach banks are permi
tted to make a one-time election to opt out of the requiremen
t to include AOCI in Tier I common equity. 
(d) Key differences under Basel III in the calculation of risk-weighte
d assets compared to Basel I include: (1) Risk weighting for 
commitments under 1 year; (2) Higher risk weighting for exposures to 
securitizations, past due loans, foreign banks and certain commercia
l real estate; (3) Higher risk weighting for MSRs and defer
red tax assets that are under certain 
thresholds as a percent of Tier I 
capital; and (4) Derivatives are differentiat
ed between exchange clearing and over-the
-counter and the 50% risk-weight cap is r
emoved. 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  23  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 
Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements provides 
a discussion of the significant new 
accounting standards adopted by 
the Bancorp during 2013 and the expected impact of significant 
accounting standards issued, but not yet required to be adopted.  
 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
The Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in 
accordance with U.S. GAAP. Certain accounting policies require 

management to exercise judgment in determining methodologies, 

economic assumptions and estimates 
that may materially affect the 
Bancorp™s financial position, result
s of operations and cash flows. 
The Bancorp's critical accounting po
licies include the accounting for 
the ALLL, reserve for unfunded commitments, income taxes, 

valuation of servicing rights, fair value measurements and goodwill. 

No material changes were made 
to the valuation techniques or 
models described below during the year ended December 31, 2013.  

 ALLL 
The Bancorp disaggregates its por
tfolio loans and leases into 
portfolio segments for purposes of determining the ALLL. The 
Bancorp™s portfolio segments include commercial, residential 

mortgage, and consumer. The Banc
orp further disaggregates its 
portfolio segments into classes for purposes of monitoring and 

assessing credit quality based on certain risk characteristics. Classes 

within the commercial portfolio 
segment include commercial and 
industrial, commercial mortgage owner occupied, commercial 

mortgage non-owner occupied, commercial construction, and 
commercial leasing. The residential 
mortgage portfolio segment is 
also considered a class. Classes within the consumer portfolio 

segment include home equity, automobile, credit card, and other 

consumer loans and leases. For an
 analysis of the Bancorp™s ALLL 
by portfolio segment and credit 
quality information by class, see 
Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
The Bancorp maintains the ALLL to absorb probable loan and 
lease losses inherent in its portfolio segments. The ALLL is 
maintained at a level the Bancorp considers to be adequate and is 
based on ongoing quarterly assessments and evaluations of the 

collectability and historical loss experience of loans and leases. 

Credit losses are charged and recoveries are credited to the ALLL. 

Provisions for loan and lease losses are based on the Bancorp™s 

review of the historical credit lo
ss experience and such factors that, 
in management™s judgment, deserve consideration under existing 

economic conditions in estimating probable credit losses. The 
Bancorp™s strategy for credit risk management includes a 
combination of conservative exposure limits significantly below 

legal lending limits and conserva
tive underwriting, documentation 
and collections standards. The strategy also emphasizes 

diversification on a geographic, indu
stry and customer level, regular 
credit examinations and quarte
rly management reviews of large 
credit exposures and loans experi
encing deterioration of credit 
quality.  
The Bancorp™s methodology for determining the ALLL is 
based on historical loss rates, current credit grades, specific 

allocation on loans modified in a TDR and impaired commercial 

credits above specified thresholds and other qualitative adjustments. 

Allowances on individual commerc
ial loans, TDRs and historical 
loss rates are reviewed quarterly and adjusted as necessary based on 

changing borrower and/or collat
eral conditions and actual 
collection and charge-off experience. An unallocated allowance is 
maintained to recognize the imprecision in estimating and 
measuring losses when evaluating allowances for individual loans or 

pools of loans.  
Larger commercial loans included
 within aggregate borrower 
relationship balances exceeding $1 
million that exhibit probable or 
observed credit weaknesses, as well as loans that have been 
modified in a TDR, are subject to
 individual review for impairment. 
The Bancorp considers the current value of collateral, credit quality 

of any guarantees, the guaranto
r™s liquidity and willingness to 
cooperate, the loan structure, an
d other factors when evaluating 
whether an individual loan is impaired. Other factors may include 
the industry and geographic region of the borrower, size and 
financial condition of the borrower, cash flow and leverage of the 

borrower, and the Bancorp™s evaluation of the borrower™s 

management. When individual lo
ans are impaired, allowances are 
determined based on management™s estimate of the borrower™s 

ability to repay the loan given the availability of collateral and other 

sources of cash flow, as well as an evaluation of legal options 

available to the Bancorp. Allo
wances for impaired loans are 
measured based on the present value 
of expected future cash flows 
discounted at the loan™s effective interest rate, fair value of the 

underlying collateral or readily obs
ervable secondary market values. 
The Bancorp evaluates the collectability of both principal and 

interest when assessing the need for a loss accrual. 
Historical credit loss rates are 
applied to commercial loans that 
are not impaired or are impaired
, but smaller than the established 
threshold of $1 million and thus not subject to specific allowance 
allocations. The loss rates are derived from a migration analysis, 
which tracks the historical net charge-off experience sustained on 

loans according to their internal risk grade. The risk grading system 

utilized for allowance analysis purpos
es encompasses ten categories.  
Homogenous loans and leases in the residential mortgage and 
consumer portfolio segments are not individually risk graded. 

Rather, standard credit scoring systems and delinquency monitoring 

are used to assess credit risks, and allowances are established based 
on the expected net charge-offs. 
Loss rates are based on the trailing twelve month net charge-off history by loan category. Historical loss 

rates may be adjusted for certain pr
escriptive and qualitative factors 
that, in management™s judgment, are necessary to reflect losses 

inherent in
 the portfolio. Factors that management considers in the 
analysis include the effects of the national and local economies; 

trends in the nature and volume 
of delinquencies, charge-offs and 
nonaccrual loans; changes in loan mix; credit score migration 
comparisons; asset quality trends
; risk management and loan 
administration; changes in the in
ternal lending policies and credit 
standards; collection practices; an
d examination results from bank 
regulatory agencies and the Bancorp™s internal credit reviewers.  
The Bancorp™s primary market areas for lending are the 
Midwestern and Southeastern regi
ons of the United States. When 
evaluating the adequacy of allowances, consideration is given to 

these regional geographic concentrations and the closely associated 
effect changing economic conditions have on the Bancorp™s 
customers.  Reserve for Unfunded Commitments 
The reserve for unfunded commitmen
ts is maintained at a level 
believed by management to be sufficient to absorb estimated 

probable losses related to unfunded credit facilities and is included 

in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The 
determination of the adequacy of the reserve is based upon an 
evaluation of the unfunded credit facilities, including an assessment 

of historical commitment utilization 
experience, credit risk grading 
and historical loss rates based on credit grade migration. This 

process takes into consideration the same risk elements that are 

analyzed in the determination of the adequacy of the Bancorp™s 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  24  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 ALLL, as discussed above. Net adjustments to the reserve for 
unfunded commitments are included in other noninterest expense 

in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
 Income Taxes The Bancorp estimates income tax expense based on amounts 
expected to be owed to the vari
ous tax jurisdictions in which the 
Bancorp conducts business. On 
a quarterly basis, management 
assesses the reasonableness of its e
ffective tax rate based upon its 
current estimate of the amount and components of net income, tax 

credits and the applicable statutor
y tax rates expected for the full 
year. The estimated income tax expense is recorded in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are determined using 
the balance sheet method and are reported in other assets and 

accrued taxes, interest and ex
penses, respectively, in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets. Under this method, the net deferred 

tax asset or liability is based on the tax effects of the differences 

between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities, and reflects 

enacted changes in tax rates and laws. Deferred tax assets are 
recognized to the extent they ex
ist and are subject to a valuation 
allowance based on management™s judgment that realization is more 

likely than not. This analysis is performed on a quarterly basis and 

includes an evaluation of all positive and negative evidence, such as 

the limitation on the use of any net operating losses, to determine 

whether realization is more likely than not. Accrued taxes represent the net estimated amount due to 
taxing jurisdictions and are reported
 in accrued taxes, interest and 
expenses in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Bancorp 
evaluates and assesses the relative risks and appropriate tax 

treatment of transactions and f
iling positions after considering 
statutes, regulations, judicial precedent and other information and 

maintains tax accruals consistent wi
th its evaluation of these relative 
risks and merits. Changes to the 
estimate of accrued taxes occur 
periodically due to changes in tax rates, interpretations of tax laws, 

the status of examinations being conducted by taxing authorities 
and changes to statutory, judic
ial and regulatory guidance that 
impact the relative risks of tax po
sitions. These changes, when they 
occur, can affect deferred taxes an
d accrued taxes as well as the 
current period™s income tax expense and can be significant to the 

operating results of the Bancorp. For additional information on 

income taxes, see Note 20 of the 
Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements.  
 Valuation of Servicing Rights 
When the Bancorp sells loans through either securitizations or 

individual loan sales in accordance 
with its investment policies, it 
often obtains servicing rights. Servicing rights resulting from loan 

sales are initially recorded at fair
 value and subsequently amortized 
in proportion to, and over the period of, estimated net servicing 

revenue. Servicing rights are assessed for impairment monthly, 

based on fair value, with tempor
ary impairment recognized through 
a valuation allowance and perm
anent impairment recognized 
through a write-off of the servicing asset and related valuation 

allowance. Key economic assumptions used in measuring any 

potential impairment of the servicin
g rights include the prepayment 
speeds of the underlying loans, the weighted-average life, the 

discount rate and the weighted-ave
rage coupon rate, as applicable. 
The primary risk of material changes to the value of the servicing 

rights resides in the potential volatility in the economic assumptions 
used, particularly the prepayment speeds. The Bancorp monitors 
risk and adjusts its valuation allowance as necessary to adequately 

reserve for impairment in the servicing portfolio. For purposes of 

measuring impairment, the mortgage servicing rights are stratified 

into classes based on the financial asset type (fixed rate vs. 
adjustable rate) and interest rates. For additional information on 
servicing rights, see Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial 

Statements. 
 Fair Value Measurements
  The Bancorp measures certain fina
ncial assets and liabilities at fair 
value in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which defines fair value as the 

price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a 
liability in an orderly transaction be
tween market participants at the 
measurement date. Valuation techniques the Bancorp uses to 

measure fair value include the ma
rket approach, income approach 
and cost approach. The market appr
oach uses prices or relevant 
information generated by market tr
ansactions involving identical or 
comparable assets or liabilities. 
The income approach involves 
discounting future amounts to a si
ngle present amount and is based 
on current market expectations a
bout those future amounts. The 
cost approach is based on the amount that currently would be 

required to replace the service capacity of the asset. 
U.S. GAAP establishes a fair v
alue hierarchy, which prioritizes 
the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into 
three broad levels. The fair value hi
erarchy gives the highest priority 
to quoted prices in active market
s for identical assets or liabilities 
(Level 1) and the lowest priority 
to unobservable inputs (Level 3). A 
financial instrument™s categorization
 within the fair value hierarchy 
is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the 

instrument™s fair value measurement. 
The three levels within the fair 
value hierarchy are described as follows:    

 Level 1
 Œ Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities that the Bancorp has the ability 

to access at the measurement date. 
Level 2
 Œ Inputs other than quoted prices included within 
Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either 

directly or indirectly. Level 2 
inputs include: quoted prices 
for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted 

prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets 
that are not active; inputs other than quoted prices that are 
observable for the asset or liability; and inputs that are 

derived principally from or corroborated by observable 

market data by correlation or other means. 
Level 3
 Œ Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability for 
which there is little, if any, market activity at the 

measurement date. Unobservable inputs reflect the 

Bancorp™s own assumptions
 about what market 
participants would use to pric
e the asset or liability. The 
inputs are developed based on the best information 

available in the circumstances, which might include the 

Bancorp™s own financial data such as internally developed 

pricing models and discounted cash flow methodologies, 

as well as instruments for which the fair value 

determination requires significant management judgment. 

 The Bancorp's fair value measurements involve various 
valuation techniques and models, which involve inputs that are 

observable, when available. Valuation techniques and parameters 

used for measuring assets and liabilities are reviewed and validated 

by the Bancorp on a quarterly basis. Additionally, the Bancorp 

monitors the fair values of sign
ificant assets and liabilities using a 
variety of methods including the 
evaluation of pricing runs and 
exception reports based on certain analyti
cal criteria, comparison to 
previous trades and overall review and assessments for 
reasonableness. The following is a summary of valuation techniques 

utilized by the Bancorp for its significant assets and liabilities 

measured at fair value on a recurring basis. 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  25  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Available-for-sale a
nd trading securities 
Where quoted prices are available in an active market, 

securities are classified within Level 1 of the valuation 

hierarchy. Level 1 securities include government bonds 

and exchange traded equities. 
If quoted market prices are 
not available, then fair values are estimated using pricing 
models, quoted prices of securities with similar 

characteristics, or discounted
 cash flows. Examples of 
such instruments, which are classified within Level 2 of 

the valuation hierarchy, in
clude agency and non-agency 
mortgage-backed securities, ot
her asset-backed securities, 
obligations of U.S. Government sponsored agencies, and 

corporate and municipal bonds. Agency mortgage-backed 
securities, obligations of U.S. Government sponsored 
agencies, and corporate and municipal bonds are generally 

valued using a market a
pproach based on observable 
prices of securities with similar characteristics. Non-

agency mortgage-backed securities and other asset-backed 

securities are generally valued using an income approach 

based on discounted cash flows, incorporating 

prepayment speeds, performance of underlying collateral 
and specific tranche-level attributes. In certain cases where 
there is limited activity or less transparency around inputs 

to the valuation, securities are classified within Level 3 of 

the valuation hierarchy.  

 
Residential mortgage loans held for sale and held for 

investment 

For residential mortgage loans held for sale, fair value is 
estimated based upon mortgage
-backed securities prices 
and spreads to those prices or, for certain ARM loans, 

discounted cash flow models that may incorporate the 

anticipated portfolio composition, credit spreads of asset-

backed securities with similar collateral, and market 

conditions. The anticipated portfolio composition 

includes the effect of interest rate spreads and discount 

rates due to loan characteristics such as the state in which 
the loan was originated, the loan amount and the ARM 
margin. Residential mortgage loans held for sale that are 

valued based on mortgage-backed securities prices are 

classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy as the 

valuation is based on external pricing for similar 

instruments. ARM loans classified as held for sale are also 

classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy due to 

the use of observable inputs in
 the discounted cash flow 
model. These observable inputs include interest rate 
spreads from agency mortgage-backed securities market 

rates and observable discount rates. For residential 

mortgage loans reclassified from held for sale to held for 

investment, the fair value estimation is based on 

mortgage-backed securities prices, interest rate risk and an 

internally developed credit component. Therefore, these 

loans are classified within Level 3 of the valuation 
hierarchy.  Derivatives 

Exchange-traded derivatives valued using quoted prices 

and certain over-the-counter derivatives valued using 

active bids are classified within Level 1 of the valuation 

hierarchy. Most of the Bancorp™s derivative contracts are 

valued using discounted cash flow or other models that 
incorporate current market interest rates, credit spreads 
assigned to the derivative counterparties, and other market 

parameters and, therefore, are classified within Level 2 of 

the valuation hierarchy. Such 
derivatives include basic and 
structured interest rate swaps and options. Derivatives 
that are valued based upon models with significant 

unobservable market paramete
rs are classified within 
Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. At December 31, 2013, 

derivatives classified as Level 3, which are valued using an 
option-pricing model containing unobservable inputs, 
consisted primarily of the warrant associated with the 

initial sale of the Bancorp™s 51% interest in Vantiv 

Holding, LLC to Advent Intern
ational and a total return 
swap associated with the Bancorp™s sale of its Visa, Inc. 

Class B shares. Level 3 derivatives also include interest 

rate lock commitments, which utilize internally generated 

loan closing rate assumptions 
as a significant unobservable 
input in the valuation process. 
 In addition to the assets and liabilities measured at fair value on 
a recurring basis, the Bancorp measures servicing rights, certain 

loans and long-lived assets at 
fair value on a nonrecurring basis. 
Refer to Note 27 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

for further information on fair value measurements.  

 Goodwill
 Business combinations entered into 
by the Bancorp typically include 
the acquisition of goodwill. U.S. GAAP requires goodwill to be 

tested for impairment at the Bancorp™s reporting unit level on an 

annual basis, which for the Bancorp is September 30, and more 

frequently if events or circumst
ances indicate that there may be 
impairment. The Bancorp has determ
ined that its segments qualify 
as reporting units under U.S. GAAP.  
Impairment exists when a report
ing unit™s carrying amount of 
goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. In testing goodwill for 

impairment, U.S. GAAP permits the Bancorp to first assess 

qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not 

that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. 

In this qualitative assessment, 
the Bancorp evaluates events and 
circumstances which may include, bu
t are not limited to, the general 
economic environment, banking industry and market conditions, 
the overall financial performance of the Bancorp, the performance 
of the Bancorp™s stock, the key fi
nancial performance metrics of the 
reporting units, and events affect
ing the reporting units. If, after 
assessing the totality of events and circumstances, the Bancorp 

determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value of a 

reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing the 

two-step impairment test would be unnecessary. However, if the 

Bancorp concludes otherwise, it wo
uld then be required to perform 
the first step (Step 1) of the goodwill impairment test, and continue 
to the second step (Step 2), if necessary. Step 1 compares the fair 

value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including 

goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its 

fair value, Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test is performed to 

measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The fair value of a reporting unit is the price that would be 
received to sell the unit as a whole in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the measurement date. Since none of the 
Bancorp™s reporting units are publicly traded, individual reporting 

unit fair value determinations cannot be directly correlated to the 

Bancorp™s stock price. To determine the fair value of a reporting 

unit, the Bancorp employs an income-based approach, utilizing the 

reporting unit™s forecasted cash 
flows (including a terminal value 
approach to estimate cash flows beyond the final year of the 

forecast) and the reporting unit™s 
estimated cost of equity as the 
discount rate. Additionally, the 
Bancorp determines its market 
capitalization based on the average of the closing price of the 

Bancorp's stock during the mont
h including the measurement date, incorporating an additional cont
rol premium, and compares this 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  26  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 market-based fair value measuremen
t to the aggregate fair value of 
the Bancorp's reporting units in order to corroborate the results of 

the income approach.  
When required to perform Step 2, the Bancorp compares the 
implied fair value of a reporting unit™s goodwill with the carrying 
amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount exceeds the implied 

fair value, an impairment loss e
qual to that excess amount is 
recognized. A recognized impairment loss cannot exceed the 

carrying amount of that goodwill and cannot be reversed in future 

periods even if the fair value of the reporting unit recovers. 
During Step 2, the Bancorp determines the implied fair value 
of goodwill for a reporting unit by assigning the fair value of the 
reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit (including 
any unrecognized intangible assets) 
as if the reporting unit had been 
acquired in a business combination. The excess of the fair value of 

the reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and 

liabilities is the implied fair v
alue of goodwill. This assignment 
process is only performed for purposes of testing goodwill for 

impairment. The Bancorp does not adjust the carrying values of 

recognized assets or liabilities (oth
er than goodwill, if appropriate), 
nor recognize previously unrecogn
ized intangible assets in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements as a result of this assignment 

process. Refer to Note 8 of th
e Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements for further information regarding the Bancorp™s 

goodwill. 
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  27  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 RISK FACTORS 
The risks listed below present risks that could have a material 
impact on the Bancorp™s financial condition, the results of its 

operations, or its business.  
 RISKS RELATING TO ECONOMIC AND MARKET 

CONDITIONS 

 Weakness in the U.S. economy and in the real estate market, 
including specific weakness within Fifth Third™s geographic 
footprint, has adversely affected Fifth Third and may continue 
to adversely affect Fifth Third. 
If the strength of the U.S. economy in general or the strength of the 

local economies in which Fifth Third conducts operations declines 

this could result in, among other things, a deterioration in credit 

quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect 

on Fifth Third™s loan portfolio and ALLL and in the receipt of 

lower proceeds from the sale of loans and foreclosed properties. A 

portion of Fifth Third™s residential mortgage and commercial real 

estate loan portfolios are comprise
d of borrowers in Florida, whose 
markets have been particularly ad
versely affected by job losses, 
declines in real estate value, 
declines in home sale volumes, and 
declines in new home building. Thes
e factors could result in higher 
delinquencies, greater charge-offs and increased losses on foreclosed 

real estate in future periods, which could materially adversely affect 

Fifth Third™s financial condition and results of operations. 
 The global financial markets continue to be strained as a 
result of economic slowdowns and concerns, especially about 
the creditworthiness of the European Union member states 
and financial institutions in the European Union.  These 
factors could have international implications, which could 
hinder the U.S. economic recovery and affect the stability of 
global financial markets.
 Certain European Union member states have fiscal obligations 

greater than their fiscal revenue, 
which has caused investor concern 
over such countries™ ability to c
ontinue to service their debt and 
foster economic growth in their economies. The European debt 

crisis and measures adopted to address it have significantly 

weakened European economies. A weaker European economy may 

cause investors to lose confidence in the safety and soundness of 

European financial institutions and the stability of European 

member economies. A failure to adequately address sovereign debt 

concerns in Europe could hamper economic recovery or contribute 
to recessionary economic conditions and severe stress in the 
financial markets, including in the 
United States. Should the U.S. 
economic recovery be adversely impacted by these factors, the 

likelihood for loan and asset growth
 at U.S. financial institutions, 
like Fifth Third, may deteriorate.  
 Changes in interest rates could 
affect Fifth Third™s income and 
cash flows. Fifth Third™s income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the 

difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning 

assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates 

paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. 

These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond 

Fifth Third™s control, including general economic conditions and the 

policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies (in 

particular, the FRB). Changes in monetary policy, including changes 
in interest rates, will influenc
e the origination of loans, the 
prepayment speed of loans, the purchase of investments, the 

generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and 

investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of 
funding. The impact of these changes may be magnified if Fifth 
Third does not effectively manage the relative sensitivity of its assets 

and liabilities to changes in market 
interest rates. Fluctuations in 
these areas may adversely affect Fifth Third and its shareholders. 
 Changes and trends in the capi
tal markets may affect Fifth 
Third™s income and cash flows. Fifth Third enters into and m
aintains trading and investment 
positions in the capital market
s on its own behalf and manages 
investment positions on behalf of its customers. These investment 

positions include derivative financial instruments. The revenues and 
profits Fifth Third derives from ma
naging proprietary and customer 
trading and investment positions are dependent on market prices. 

Market changes and trends may re
sult in a decline in investment 
advisory revenue or investment or trading losses that may materially 

affect Fifth Third. Losses on beh
alf of its customers could expose 
Fifth Third to litigation, credit risks or loss of revenue from those 

customers. Additionally, substantial 
losses in Fifth Third™s trading 
and investment positions could lead 
to a loss with respect to those 
investments and may adversely affect cash flows and funding costs. 
 The removal or reduction in stimulus activities sponsored by 
the Federal Government and its agents may have a negative 
impact on Fifth Third™s results and operations. 
The Federal Government has intervened in an unprecedented 

manner to stimulate economic grow
th. The expiration or rescission 
of any of these programs and actions may have an adverse impact 
on Fifth Third™s operating results by increasing interest rates, 
increasing the cost of funding, and reducing the demand for loan 

products, including mortgage loans. 
 Problems encountered by financial institutions larger than or 
similar to Fifth Third could adversely affect financial markets 
generally and have indirect adverse effects on Fifth Third.  
 The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be 
closely interrelated as a result of 
credit, trading, clearing or other 
relationships between the instituti
ons. As a result, concerns about, 
or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to 

significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or 

defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as 

ﬁsystemic riskﬂ and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, 

such as clearing agencies, clearing
 houses, banks, securities firms 
and exchanges, with which the Bancorp interacts on a daily basis, 
and therefore could adversely affect Fifth Third. 
 Fifth Third™s stock price is volatile. 
Fifth Third™s stock price has been volatile in the past and several 

factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. 

These factors include: 
 Actual or anticipated variations in earnings; 
 Changes in analysts™ recommendations or projections; 
 Fifth Third™s announcements of developments related to 
its businesses; 
 Operating and stock performance of other companies 
deemed to be peers;  
 Actions by government regulators; 
 New technology used or services offered by traditional 
and non-traditional competitors; 
 News reports of trends, concerns and other issues related 
to the financial services industry;  Natural disasters; 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  28  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism 
or military conflicts.  
The price for shares of Fifth Third™s common stock may fluctuate 

significantly in the future, and thes
e fluctuations may be unrelated to 
Fifth Third™s performance. General market price declines or market 

volatility in the future could advers
ely affect the price for shares of 
Fifth Third™s common stock, and the current market price of such 
shares may not be indicative
 of future market prices.  
RISKS RELATING TO FIFTH THIRD™S GENERAL 

BUSINESS 
 Deteriorating credit quality, particularly in real estate loans, 
has adversely impacted Fifth Third and may continue to 
adversely impact Fifth Third. 
When Fifth Third lends money or commits to lend money the 
Bancorp incurs credit risk or the risk of losses if borrowers do not 

repay their loans. The credit performance of the loan portfolios 

significantly affects the Bancorp™s 
financial results and condition. If 
the current economic environment were to deteriorate, more 

customers may have difficulty in 
repaying their loans or other 
obligations which could result in a higher level of credit losses and 
reserves for credit losses. Fifth Third reserves for credit losses by 
establishing reserves through a charge to earnings. The amount of 

these reserves is based on Fifth Third™s assessment of credit losses 

inherent in the loan portfolio
 (including unfunded credit 
commitments). The process for determining the amount of the 

allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded 

commitments is critical to Fift
h Third™s financial results and 
condition. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments 
about the environment, including analysis of economic or market 
conditions that might impair the 
ability of borrowers to repay their 
loans. Fifth Third might underestimate the credit losses inherent in its 
loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount 

reserved. Fifth Third might increase the reserve because of changing 

economic conditions, including falling home prices or higher 

unemployment, or other factors such as changes in borrower™s 
behavior. As an example, borrowers
 may "strategically default," or 
discontinue making payments on their real estate-secured loans if 

the value of the real estate is less 
than what they owe, even if they 
are still financially able to make the payments.  
Fifth Third believes that both the allowance for loan and lease 
losses and reserve for unfunded commitments are adequate to cover 

inherent losses at December 31, 2013; however, there is no 

assurance that they will be sufficient to cover future credit losses, 
especially if housing and employment conditions worsen. In the 
event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, Fifth 

Third may be required to increase reserves in future periods, which 

would reduce earnings. For more information, refer to
 the "Risk Management - Credit 
Risk Management," "Critical Acco
unting Policies - Allowance for 
Loan and Leases,ﬂ and ﬁReserve for Unfunded Commitmentsﬂ of 

the MD&A.  
 Fifth Third must maintain adequate sources of funding and 
liquidity. 
Fifth Third must maintain adequa
te funding sources in the normal 
course of business to support it
s operations and fund outstanding 
liabilities, as well as meet regulatory expectations.  Fifth Third 

primarily relies on bank deposits to
 be a low cost and stable source 
of funding for the loans Fifth Third makes and the operations of 
Fifth Third™s business. Core customer deposits, which include 
transaction deposits and other time deposits, have historically 
provided Fifth Third with a sizeable source of relatively stable and 
low-cost funds (average core depos
its funded 70% of average total 
assets at December 31, 2013). In 
addition to customer deposits, 
sources of liquidity include invest
ments in the securities portfolio, 
Fifth Third™s ability to sell or secu
ritize loans in secondary markets 
and to pledge loans to access secured borrowing facilities through 

the FHLB and the FRB, and Fifth Th
ird™s ability to raise funds in 
domestic and international money and capital markets. Fifth Third™s liquidity and ability to fund and run the business 
could be materially adversely affected by a variety of conditions and 

factors, including financial and credit market disruptions and 

volatility or a lack of market or
 customer confidence in financial 
markets in general similar to what occurred during the financial 
crisis in 2008 and early 2009, which may result in a loss of customer 

deposits or outflows of cash or collateral and/or ability to access 

capital markets on favorable terms.  
Other conditions and factors that could materially adversely 
affect Fifth Third™s liquidity and funding include a lack of market or 

customer confidence in Fifth Third or negative news about Fifth 

Third or the financial services industry generally which also may 
result in a loss of deposits and/or negatively affect the ability to 
access the capital markets; the loss of customer deposits to 

alternative investments;  inability to 
sell or securitize loans or other 
assets, increased regulatory requirements, and reductions in one or 

more of Fifth Third™s credit rating
s. A reduced credit rating could 
adversely affect Fifth Third™s ability to borrow funds and raise the 

cost of borrowings substantially and could cause creditors and 

business counterparties to raise co
llateral requirements or take other 
actions that could adversely aff
ect Fifth Third™s ability to raise 
capital. Many of the above conditi
ons and factors may be caused by 
events over which Fifth Third has little or no control such as what 

occurred during the financial crisis
. While market conditions have 
stabilized and, in many cases, improved, there can be no assurance 

that significant disruption and volat
ility in the financial markets will 
not occur in the future.  
If Fifth Third is unable to co
ntinue to fund assets through 
customer bank deposits or access capital markets on favorable terms or if Fifth Third suffers an increase in borrowing costs or otherwise 

fails to manage liquidity effectively; liquidity, operating margins, 

financial results and condition may be materially adversely affected. 

As Fifth Third did during the financial crisis, it may also need to 

raise additional capital through th
e issuance of stock, which could 
dilute the ownership of existing 
stockholders, or reduce or even 
eliminate common stock dividends to preserve capital. 
 Fifth Third may have more credit 
risk and higher credit losses 
to the extent loans are concentrated by location of the 
borrowers or collateral. 
Fifth Third™s credit risk and credit losses can increase if its loans are 

concentrated to borrowers engaged in
 the same or similar activities 
or to borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or 

disproportionately affected by 
economic or market conditions. 
Deterioration in economic conditions
, housing conditions and real 
estate values in these states an
d generally across the country could 
result in materially higher credit losses.
   Fifth Third may be required to repurchase residential 
mortgage loans or reimburse investors and others as a result of 
breaches in contractual representations and warranties. 
Fifth Third sells residential mort
gage loans to various parties, 
including GSEs and other financial institutions that purchase 
residential mortgage loans for investment or private label 

securitization. Fifth Third may be 
required to repurchase residential 
mortgage loans, indemnify the secu
ritization trust, investor or 
insurer, or reimburse the securitiza
tion trust, investor or insurer for 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  29  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 credit losses incurred on loans in the event of a breach of 
contractual representations or warra
nties that is not remedied within 
a period (usually 60 days or less) after Fifth Third receives notice of 

the breach. Contracts for residential mortgage loan sales to the 

GSEs include various types of specific remedies and penalties that 
could be applied to inadequate res
ponses to repurchase requests. If 
economic conditions and the housing market deteriorate or future 

investor repurchase demand an
d success at appealing repurchase 
requests differ from past experience, Fifth Third could have 

increased repurchase obligations and increased loss severity on 

repurchases, requiring material additi
ons to the repurchase reserve.  
 If Fifth Third does not adjust to rapid changes in the financial 
services industry, its financial performance may suffer. 
Fifth Third™s ability to deliver strong financial performance and 
returns on investment to shareholde
rs will depend in part on its 
ability to expand the scope of available financial services to meet the 

needs and demands of its customers. In addition to the challenge of 

competing against other banks in attracting and retaining customers 

for traditional banking services, Fifth Third™s competitors also 
include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment 
advisors, specialty finance and insurance companies who seek to 
offer one-stop financial services that
 may include services that banks 
have not been able or allowed to o
ffer to their customers in the past 
or may not be currently able or allowed to offer. This increasingly 

competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in 

regulation, changes in technology
 and product delivery systems, as 
well as the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial 

service providers. 
 If Fifth Third is unable to grow its deposits, it may be subject 
to paying higher funding costs. 
The total amount that Fifth Third pays for funding costs is 

dependent, in part, on Fifth Third™s ability to grow its deposits. If 

Fifth Third is unable to suffici
ently grow its deposits to meet 
liquidity objectives, it may be subject 
to paying higher funding costs.  
Fifth Third competes with banks and other financial services 
companies for deposits. If competitors raise the rates they pay on 
deposits, Fifth Third™s funding costs may increase, either because 

Fifth Third raises rates to avoid losing deposits or because Fifth 

Third loses deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of 

funding. Higher funding costs re
duce our net interest margin and 
net interest income. Fifth Third™s bank customers could take their 

money out of the bank and put it in alternative investments, causing 

Fifth Third to lose a lower cost source of funding. Checking and 
savings account balances and other forms of customer deposits may 
decrease when customers perceive alternative investments, such as 

the stock market, as providing a better risk/return tradeoff. 
  The Bancorp™s ability to receive dividends from its 
subsidiaries accounts for most of its revenue and could affect 
its liquidity and ability to pay dividends. 
  Fifth Third Bancorp is a separate and distinct legal entity from its 
subsidiaries. Fifth Third Bancorp typically receives substantially all 
of its revenue from dividends from
 its subsidiaries. These dividends 
are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on Fifth Third 

Bancorp™s stock and interest and principal on its debt. Various 

federal and/or state laws and regulations, as well as regulatory 

expectations, limit the amount of dividends that the Bancorp™s 

banking subsidiary and certain
 nonbank subsidiaries may pay. 
Regulatory scrutiny of capital levels at bank holding companies and 
insured depository institution subsidiaries has increased since the 
financial crisis and has resulted in increased regulatory focus on all 

aspects of capital planning, including dividends and other 

distributions to shareholders of 
banks such as the parent bank 
holding companies. Also, Fifth Third Bancorp™s right to participate 
in a distribution of assets upon 
a subsidiary™s liquidation or 
reorganization is subject to the pr
ior claims of that subsidiary™s 
creditors. Limitations on the Bancorp™s ability to receive dividends 

from its subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on its 
liquidity and ability to pay dividends on stock or interest and 
principal on its debt. 

 The financial services industry
 is highly competitive and 
creates competitive pressures that could adversely affect Fifth 
Third™s revenue and profitability.  
 The financial services industry in which Fifth Third operates is 

highly competitive. Fifth Third competes not only with commercial 
banks, but also with insurance 
companies, mutual funds, hedge 
funds, and other companies offering
 financial services in the U.S., 
globally and over the internet. Fifth Third competes on the basis of 

several factors, including capital, access to capital, revenue 

generation, products, services, tr
ansaction execution, innovation, 
reputation and price. Over time, 
certain sectors of the financial 
services industry have become more
 concentrated, as institutions 
involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired 
by or merged into other firms. These developments could result in 
Fifth Third™s competitors gaining greater capital and other 

resources, such as a broader range of products and services and 

geographic diversity. Fifth Third may experience pricing pressures 

as a result of these factors and as some of its competitors seek to 

increase market share by reducing prices. 

 Fifth Third and/or the holders of its securities could be 
adversely affected by unfavorabl
e ratings from rating agencies. 
 Fifth Third™s ability to access the capital markets is important to its 

overall funding profile. This access is affected by the ratings 

assigned by rating agencies to Fift
h Third, certain of its subsidiaries 
and particular classes of securities 
they issue. The interest rates that 
Fifth Third pays on its securities are also influenced by, among 

other things, the credit ratings that it, its subsidiaries and/or its 

securities receive from recognized
 rating agencies. A downgrade to 
Fifth Third or its subsidiaries™ credit
 rating could affect its ability to 
access the capital markets, increase its borrowing costs and 

negatively impact its profitability. A ratings downgrade to Fifth 

Third, its subsidiaries or their secu
rities could also create obligations 
or liabilities to Fifth Third under the terms of its outstanding 

securities that could increase Fifth Third™s costs or otherwise have a 

negative effect on its results of 
operations or financial condition. 
Additionally, a downgrade of the credit rating of any particular 
security issued by Fifth Third or
 its subsidiaries could negatively 
affect the ability of the holders of 
that security to sell the securities 
and the prices at which any such securities may be sold.  
 Fifth Third could suffer if it fails to attract and retain skilled 
personnel. 
Fifth Third™s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract 

and retain key individuals. Competition for qualified candidates in 
the activities and markets that Fift
h Third serves is great and Fifth 
Third may not be able to hire these candidates and retain them. If 

Fifth Third is not able to hire or retain these key individuals, Fifth 

Third may be unable to execute 
its business strategies and may 
suffer adverse consequences to its business, operations and financial 

condition. In June 2010, the federal banking agencies issued joint 
guidance on executive compensation designed to help ensure that a 
banking organization™s incentive compensation policies do not 
encourage imprudent risk taking an
d are consistent with the safety 
and soundness of the organization. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act 

requires those agencies, along with the SEC, to adopt rules to 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  30  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 require reporting of incentive compensation and to prohibit certain 
compensation arrangements. The federal banking agencies and the 

SEC proposed such rules in April 2011. In addition, in June 2012, 

the SEC issued final rules to 
implement Dodd-Frank™s requirement 
that the SEC direct the national 
securities exchanges to adopt 
certain listing standards related to the compensation committee of a 

company's board of directors as well as its compensation advisers. If 

Fifth Third is unable to attract an
d retain qualified employees, or do 
so at rates necessary to maintain its competitive position, or if 

compensation costs required to attract and retain employees 

become more expensive, Fifth Third™s performance, including its 

competitive position, could be materially adversely affected.  
 Fifth Third™s mortgage banking revenue can be volatile from 
quarter to quarter. 
Fifth Third earns revenue from the fees it receives for originating 

mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. When rates rise, 

the demand for mortgage loans tends to fall, reducing the revenue 

Fifth Third receives from loan originations. At the same time, 

revenue from MSRs can increase through increases in fair value. 
When rates fall, mortgage originations tend to increase and the value 
of MSRs tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect. 

Even though the origination of mortgage loans can act as a ﬁnatural 

hedge,ﬂ the hedge is not perfect, either in amount or timing. For 

example, the negative effect on revenue from a decrease in the fair 

value of residential MSRs is immediate, but any offsetting revenue 

benefit from more originations and the MSRs relating to the new 

loans would accrue over time. It is also possible that, because of the 
recession and deteriorating housing 
market, even if interest rates 
were to fall, mortgage originations may also fall or any increase in 

mortgage originations may not be enough to offset the decrease in 

the MSRs value caused by the lower rates.  

     Fifth Third typically uses derivatives and other instruments to 

hedge its mortgage banking interest rate risk. Fifth Third generally 

does not hedge all of its risks, and the fact that Fifth Third attempts 

to hedge any of the risks does not mean Fifth Third will be 
successful. Hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated 
models and constant monitoring. Fifth Third may use hedging 

instruments tied to U.S. Treasury
 rates, LIBOR or Eurodollars that 
may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. 

Fifth Third could incur significant losses from its hedging activities. 
There may be periods where Fifth Third elects not to use derivatives 

and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk.  

 Fifth Third uses financial models for business planning 
purposes that may not adequately predict future results. 
Fifth Third uses financial models to aid in its planning for various 

purposes including its capital and 
liquidity needs, potential charge- 
offs, reserves, and other purposes. The models used may not 

accurately account for all variables that could affect future results, 

may fail to predict outcomes accurately and/or may overstate or 

understate certain effects. As a 
result of these potential failures, 
Fifth Third may not adequately prepare for future events and may 
suffer losses or other setbac
ks due to these failures.  Changes in interest rates could 
also reduce the value of MSRs.
 Fifth Third acquires MSRs when it
 keeps the servicing rights after 
the sale or securitization of the lo
ans that have been originated or 
when it purchases the servicing rights to mortgage loans originated 

by other lenders. Fifth Third initially measures all residential MSRs 
at fair value and subsequently am
ortizes the MSRs in proportion to, 
and over the period of, estimated net servicing income. Fair value is 

the present value of estimated future net servicing income, 

calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions 

about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. Servicing rights 
are assessed for impairment monthly, based on fair value, with 
temporary impairment recognized through a valuation allowance 
and permanent impairment recogniz
ed through a write-off of the 
servicing asset and related valuation allowance. 
Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions 
and thus fair value. When interest
 rates fall, borrowers are usually 
more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a 

lower rate. As the likelihood of pr
epayment increases, the fair value 
of MSRs can decrease. Each quarter Fifth Third evaluates the fair 

value of MSRs, and decreases in fair value below amortized cost 

reduce earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs. 
 The preparation of Fifth Third™s financial statements requires 
the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. 
The preparation of consolidated fi
nancial statements in conformity 
with U.S. GAAP requires managemen
t to make significant estimates 
that affect the financial statements. See the ﬁCritical Accounting 

Policiesﬂ section of the MD&A for more information regarding 

management™s significant estimates. Additionally, Fifth Third™s 

litigation reserve is a managemen
t estimate which is regularly 
reviewed for accuracy.  Fifth Third regularly reviews its litigation reserve for adequacy 
considering its litigation and regulatory investigation risks and 

probability of incurring losses relat
ed to litigation and regulatory 
investigations. However, Fifth Third cannot be certain that its 

current litigation reserves will be 
adequate over time to cover its 
losses in litigation or regulatory proceedings due to higher than 

anticipated settlement costs, 
prolonged litigation, adverse 
judgments, or other factors that are largely outside of Fifth Third™s 
control. If Fifth Third™s litigation reserves are not adequate, Fifth 

Third™s business, financial condition, including its liquidity and 

capital, and results of operations could be materially adversely 

affected. Additionally, in the future
, Fifth Third may increase its 
litigation reserves, which could have a material adverse effect on its 

capital and results of operations. In 
addition, if a material change to 
a reserve amount is made to reflect new information, such a change 
could result in a change to previously announced financial results. 
 Changes in accounting standards or interpretations could 
impact Fifth Third™s reported earnings and financial 
condition. 
The accounting standard setters, including the FASB, the SEC and 

other regulatory agencies, periodically change the financial 

accounting and reporting standards 
that govern the preparation of 
Fifth Third™s consolidated financial statements. These changes can 
be hard to predict and can materially impact how Fifth Third 

records and reports its financial c
ondition and results of operations. 
In some cases, Fifth Third could be required to apply a new or 

revised standard retroactively, whic
h would result in the recasting of 
Fifth Third™s prior period financial statements.  

 Future acquisitions may dilute current shareholders™ 
ownership of Fifth Third and may cause Fifth Third to 
become more susceptible to adverse economic events. 
Future business acquisitions could be material to Fifth Third and it 

may issue additional shares of st
ock to pay for those acquisitions, 
which would dilute current shareholders™ ownership interests. 

Acquisitions also could require Fifth Third to use substantial cash or 

other liquid assets or to incur debt. In those events, Fifth Third 

could become more susceptible to economic downturns and 
competitive pressures. 
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  31  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Difficulties in combining the operations of acquired entities 
with Fifth Third™s own operations may prevent Fifth Third 
from achieving the expected benefits from its acquisitions. 
Inherent uncertainties exist when 
integrating the operations of an 
acquired entity. Fifth Third may not be able to fully achieve its 
strategic objectives and planned operating efficiencies in an 
acquisition. In addition, the markets and industries in which Fifth 

Third and its potential acquisition targets operate are highly 

competitive. Fifth Third may lose customers or the customers of 

acquired entities as a result of an acquisition. Future acquisition and 

integration activities may require Fifth Third to devote substantial 

time and resources and as a result Fifth Third may not be able to 

pursue other business opportunities.   
After completing an acquisition, Fifth Third may find certain 
items are not accounted for properl
y in accordance with financial 
accounting and reporting standards. Fifth Third may also not realize 

the expected benefits of the acquisition due to lower financial 

results pertaining to the acquired entity. For example, Fifth Third 

could experience higher charge-o
ffs than originally anticipated 
related to the acquired loan portfolio. 
 Fifth Third may sell or consider selling one or more of its 
businesses. Should it determine 
to sell such a business, it may 
not be able to generate gains on sale or related increase in 
shareholders™ equity commensurate with desirable levels. 
Moreover, if Fifth Third sold 
such businesses, the loss of 
income could have an adverse effect on its earnings and future 
growth. 
Fifth Third owns several non-strategic businesses that are not 
significantly synergistic with its 
core financial services businesses. 
Fifth Third has, from time to time, considered the sale of such 

businesses. If it were to determine to sell such businesses, Fifth 

Third would be subject to market forces that may make completion 

of a sale unsuccessful or may not be able to do so within a desirable 

time frame. If Fifth Third were to complete the sale of non-core 

businesses, it would suffer the loss of income from the sold 

businesses, and such loss of income could have an adverse effect on 
its future earnings and growth.  Fifth Third relies on its system
s and certain service providers, 
and certain failures could materially adversely affect 
operations. 
Fifth Third collects, processes and stores sensitive consumer data by 

utilizing computer systems and 
telecommunications networks 
operated by both Fifth Third and third party service providers. Fifth 
Third has security, backup and recove
ry systems in place, as well as 
a business continuity plan to ensure the system will not be 

inoperable. Fifth Third also has s
ecurity to prevent unauthorized 
access to the system. In addition, Fifth Third requires its third party 

service providers to maintain similar controls. However, Fifth Third 

cannot be certain that the measures will be successful. A security 

breach in the system and loss of 
confidential information such as 
credit card numbers and related information could result in losing 
the customers™ confidence and thus the loss of their business as well 
as additional significant costs for 
privacy monitoring activities.  Fifth Third™s necessary dependence upon automated systems to 
record and process its transaction volume poses the risk that 

technical system flaws or employee errors, tampering or 

manipulation of those systems w
ill result in losses and may be 
difficult to detect. Fifth Third may 
also be subject to disruptions of 
its operating systems arising from events that are beyond its control 
(for example, computer viruses or
 electrical or telecommunications 
outages). Fifth Third is further ex
posed to the risk that its third 
party service providers may be unab
le to fulfill their contractual 
obligations (or will be subject to
 the same risk of fraud or 
operational errors as Fifth Third). These disruptions may interfere 
with service to Fifth Third™s custo
mers and result in a financial loss 
or liability.  Fifth Third is exposed to cyber-security risks, including denial 
of service, hacking, and identity theft.  
There has been a well-publicized series of apparently related 
distributed denial of service a
ttacks on large financial services 
companies, including Fifth Third Bank. Distributed denial of service 

attacks are designed to saturate the targeted online network with 

excessive amounts of network tra
ffic, resulting in slow response 
times, or in some cases, causing the site to be temporarily 

unavailable. To date these attacks 
have not been intended to steal 
financial data, but meant to interrupt or suspend a company™s 
Internet service. These events did 
not result in a breach of Fifth 
Third™s client data and accoun
t information remained secure; 
however, the attacks did adversely 
affect the performance of Fifth 
Third™s website and in some instances prevented customers from 

accessing Fifth Third™s website. While the event was resolved in a 

timely fashion and primarily resulted in inconvenience to our 

customers, future cyber-attacks 
could be more disruptive and 
damaging. Hacking and identity theft risks, in particular, could cause 
serious reputational harm. Cyber th
reats are rapidly evolving and 
Fifth Third may not be able to antici
pate or prevent all such attacks. 
Fifth Third may incur increasing cost
s in an effort to minimize these 
risks and could be held liable fo
r any security breach or loss.  Fifth Third is exposed to operational and reputational risk. 
Fifth Third is exposed to many types of operational risk, including 
reputational risk, legal and comp
liance risk, environmental risks from its properties, the risk of fraud or theft by employees, 

customers or outsiders, unauthor
ized transactions by employees, 
operating system disruptions or operational errors. 
 Negative public opinion can result from Fifth Third™s actual or 
alleged conduct in activities, such as lending practices, data security, 

corporate governance and acquisitions, and may damage Fifth 

Third™s reputation. Additionally, actions taken by government 
regulators and community organi
zations may also damage Fifth 
Third™s reputation. This negative pu
blic opinion can adversely affect 
Fifth Third™s ability to attract and keep customers and can expose it 

to litigation and regulatory action.  
 The results of Vantiv Holding, LLC could have a negative 
impact on Fifth Third™s operating results and financial 
condition. 
In 2009, Fifth Third sold an approximate 51% interest in its 

processing business, Vantiv Holding, LLC (formerly Fifth Third 

Processing Solutions). As a result of additional share sales 

completed by Fifth Third in 2012 and 2013, the Bancorp™s current 

ownership share in Vantiv Holdin
g, LLC is approximately 25%. 
Vantiv Holding, LLC is accounte
d for under the equity method and 
is not consolidated based on Fifth Third™s remaining ownership 

share in Vantiv Holding, LLC. 
Vantiv Holding, LLC™s operating 
results could be poor or favora
ble and could disproportionately 
affect the operating results of Fift
h Third. In addition, Fifth Third 
participates in a multi-lender credit
 facility to Vantiv Holding, LLC 
and repayment of these loans is contingent on future cash flows 

from Vantiv Holding, LLC.  
 Weather related events or other natural disasters may have an 
effect on the performance of Fifth Third™s loan portfolios, 
especially in its coastal markets, thereby adversely impacting 
its results of operations. 
Fifth Third™s footprint stretches from the upper Midwestern to 

lower Southeastern regions of the United States. This area has 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  32  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 experienced weather events includ
ing hurricanes and other natural 
disasters. The nature and level of these events and the impact of 

global climate change upon their frequency and severity cannot be 

predicted. If large scale events o
ccur, they may significantly impact 
its loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral as 
well as impairing its borrowers™ 
ability to repay their loans.  
RISKS RELATED TO THE LEGAL AND REGULATORY 

ENVIRONMENT 

 As a regulated entity, the Bancor
p is subject to certain capital 
requirements that may limit its operations and potential 
growth.  
 The Bancorp is a bank holding company and a financial holding 

company. As such, it is subject to
 the comprehensive, consolidated 
supervision and regulation of the FRB, including risk-based and 

leverage capital requirements. The Bancorp must maintain certain 

risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by the FRB which 

can change depending upon general economic conditions and the 

Bancorp™s particular condition, 
risk profile and growth plans. 
Compliance with the capital requiremen
ts, including leverage ratios, 
may limit operations that require the intensive use of capital and 

could adversely affect the Bancorp™s ability to expand or maintain 

present business levels. 
In June 2012, Federal banking agencies proposed 
enhancements to the regulatory capital requirements for U.S. 

banking organizations, which implemented aspects of Basel III, 

such as re-defining the regulator
y capital elements and minimum 
capital ratios, introducing regulatory capital buffers above those 
minimums, revising the agencies™ ru
les for calculating risk-weighted 
assets and introducing a new Tier 
1 common equity ratio. In July 
2013, the Federal banking agencies issued final rules for the 

enhanced regulatory capital requirements, which included 

modifications to the proposed rules. The final rules provide the 

option for certain banking organiza
tions, including the Bancorp, to 
opt out of including AOCI in Tier 1 capital and retain the treatment 
of residential mortgage exposures consistent with the current Basel I 
capital rules. The new capital rules are effective for the Bancorp on 

January 1, 2015, subject to phase
-in periods for certain components 
and other provisions. The need to 
maintain more and higher quality 
capital as well as greater liquidi
ty going forward could limit our 
business activities, including lending, and our ability to expand, 

either organically or through ac
quisitions. In addition, the new 
liquidity standards could require us to increase our holdings of 
highly liquid short-term investments
, thereby reducing our ability to 
invest in longer-term assets even 
if more desirable from a balance 
sheet management perspective. Moreover, although these new 

requirements are being phased in over time, U.S. Federal banking 

agencies have been taking into 
account expectations regarding the 
ability of banks to meet these new requirements, including under 

stressed conditions, in approving actions that represent uses of 

capital, such as dividend increases and share repurchases.  
The Bancorp™s banking subsidiary must remain well-capitalized, 
well-managed and maintain at least 
a ﬁSatisfactoryﬂ CRA rating for 
the Bancorp to retain its status 
as a financial holding company. 
Failure to meet these requirements 
could result in the FRB placing 
limitations or conditions on the 
Bancorp™s activities (and the 
commencement of new activities) and co
uld ultimately result in the 
loss of financial holding company st
atus. In addition, failure by the 
Bancorp™s banking subsidiary to meet
 applicable capital guidelines 
could subject the bank to a 
variety of enforcement remedies 
available to the federal regulat
ory authorities. These include 
limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the issuance by the 

regulatory authority of a capital directive to increase capital, and the 

termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC.  
Fifth Third™s business, financial condition and results of 
operations could be adversely affected by new or changed 
regulations and by the manner in which such regulations are 
applied by regulatory authorities. 
 Current economic conditions, particul
arly in the financial markets, 
have resulted in government regulatory agencies placing increased 

focus on and scrutiny of the fina
ncial services industry. The U.S. 
government has intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding 

to what has been commonly referred to as the financial crisis, by 

introducing various actions and passing legislation such as the 

Dodd-Frank Act. Such programs an
d legislation subject Fifth Third 
and other financial institutions to restrictions, oversight and/or 
costs that may have an impact on 
Fifth Third™s business, financial 
condition, results of operations or
 the price of its common stock.  
New proposals for legislation and regulations continue to be 
introduced that could further substantially increase regulation of the 

financial services industry. Fifth Third cannot predict whether any 

pending or future legislation will 
be adopted or the substance and 
impact of any such new legislation on Fifth Third. Additional 

regulation could affect Fifth Third in a substantial way and could 
have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and 
results of operations.    
On November 21, 2013, the OCC 
and FDIC separately issued 
guidance on deposit advance loan
s. The guidance establishes 
numerous expectations for instituti
ons that offer such products. It 
covers matters such as consumer 
eligibility, capital adequacy, fees, 
compliance, management oversight, 
and third-party relationships. 
Fifth Third™s deposit advance product was designed to fully comply 
with all applicable federal and stat
e laws. However, given industry 
developments, Fifth Third determined to cease enrolling customers 

in its deposit advance product as of January 31, 2014 and will phase 

out its service to existing depos
it advance customers by December 
31, 2014.   
 Fifth Third is subject to various regulatory requirements that 
may limit its operations and potential growth. 
Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety 
and soundness of insured depository institutions and their holding 

companies, the FRB, the FDIC, the CFPB and the Ohio Division of 

Financial Institutions have the author
ity to compel or restrict certain 
actions by Fifth Third and its banking subsidiary. Fifth Third and its 

banking subsidiary are subject to 
such supervisory authority and, 
more generally, must, in certain instances, obtain prior regulatory 

approval before engaging in certain 
activities or corporate decisions. 
There can be no assurance that such approvals, if required, would 
be forthcoming or that such approvals would be granted in a timely 

manner. Failure to receive any such approval, if required, could limit 

or impair Fifth Third™s operations, restrict its growth and/or affect 

its dividend policy. Such actions 
and activities subject to prior 
approval include, but are not limited 
to, increasing dividends paid by Fifth Third or its banking subsidiary, entering into a merger or 

acquisition transaction, acquiring 
or establishing new branches, and 
entering into certain new businesses. 
 In addition, Fifth Third, as well as other financial institutions 
more generally, have recently been subjected to increased scrutiny 

from regulatory authorities stemming from broader systemic 

regulatory concerns, including with 
respect to stress testing, capital 
levels, asset quality, provisioning
 and other prudential matters, 
arising as a result of the recent fi
nancial crisis and efforts to ensure 
that financial institutions take steps to improve their risk 
management and prevent future crises.  
In some cases, regulatory agencies may take supervisory actions 
that may not be publicly disclosed, which restrict or limit a financial 

institution. Finally, as part of Fifth Third™s regular examination 

process, Fifth Third™s and its 
banking subsidiary™s respective 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  33  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 regulators may advise it and its banking subsidiary to operate under 
various restrictions as a prudent
ial matter. Such supervisory actions 
or restrictions, if and in whatever manner imposed, could have a 

material adverse effect on Fifth Third™s business and results of 

operations and may not be publicly disclosed. 
 Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved 
from time to time in information-gathering requests, 
investigations and proceedings by various governmental 
regulatory agencies and law en
forcement authorities, as well 
as self-regulatory agencies 
which may lead to adverse 
consequences. 
Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved from 
time to time in information-gathering requests, reviews, 
investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by 

governmental regulatory agencies 
and law enforcement authorities, as well as self-regulatory agencies
, including the SEC, regarding their respective businesses. Such matters 
may result in material adverse 
consequences, including without limitation, adverse judgments, 

settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other actions, 

amendments and/or restatements of Fifth Third™s SEC filings 
and/or financial statements, as app
licable, and/or determinations of 
material weaknesses in its disclo
sure controls and procedures.   Deposit insurance premiums levied against Fifth Third Bank 
may increase if the number of 
bank failures increase or the 
cost of resolving failed banks increases.  
The FDIC maintains a DIF to protect insured depositors in the 

event of bank failures. The DIF 
is funded by fees assessed on 
insured depository institutions including Fifth Third Bank. The 
magnitude and cost of resolving an increased number of bank 

failures have reduced the DIF. Future deposit premiums paid by 

Fifth Third Bank depend on the le
vel of the DIF and the magnitude 
and cost of future bank failur
es. Fifth Third Bank also may be 
required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums because market 

developments have significantly depleted the DIF of the FDIC and 

reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits.  
 Legislative or regulatory compliance, changes or actions or 
significant litigation, could adversely impact Fifth Third or the 
businesses in which Fifth Third is engaged. 
 Fifth Third is subject to extensive state and federal regulation, 

supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of its 

operations and limit the businesses in which Fifth Third may 

engage. These laws and regulations may change from time to time 
and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, 
depositors and the deposit insurance funds. The impact of any 

changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory 

agencies may negatively impact Fifth Third or its ability to increase 

the value of its business. Additionally
, actions by regulatory agencies 
or significant litigation against Fifth Third could cause it to devote 

significant time and resources to de
fending itself and may lead to 
penalties that materially affect Fifth Third and its shareholders. 
Future changes in the laws, including tax laws, or regulations or 
their interpretations or enforcement may also be materially adverse 

to Fifth Third and its shareholders or may require Fifth Third to 

expend significant time and resources to comply with such 

requirements. On July 21, 2010 the President of the United States signed into 
law the Dodd-Frank Act. Many parts of the Dodd-Frank Act are 

now in effect, while others are in an implementation stage likely to 
continue for several years. A number of reform provisions are likely 
to significantly impact the ways 
in which banks and bank holding 
companies, including Fifth Third 
and its bank subsidiary, conduct 
their business: 
 The CFPB has been given authority to regulate 
consumer financial products and services sold by 
banks and non-bank companies and to supervise 

banks with assets of more than $10 billion and their 

affiliates for compliance with Federal consumer 

protection laws. Any new regulatory requirements 

promulgated by the CFPB could require changes to 
our consumer businesses, result in increased 
compliance costs and affect the streams of revenue of 

such businesses. The FSOC has been charged with 

identifying systemic risks, promoting stronger 

financial regulation and identifying those non-bank 

companies that are systemically important and thus 

should be subject to regulation by the Federal 

Reserve.   The Dodd-Frank Act ﬁVolcker Ruleﬂ provisions and 
implementing final rule generally prohibit any 

banking entity from (i) engaging in short-term 
proprietary trading for its own account and (ii) 
sponsoring or acquiring ownership interests in 

private equity or hedge funds. The Volcker Rule, 

however, contains a number of exceptions to these 

prohibitions. For example, transactions on behalf of 

customers or in connection with certain underwriting 

and market making activities, as well as risk-

mitigating hedging activities and certain foreign 
banking activities are permitted. The risk-mitigating 
hedging exemption applies to hedging activities that 

are designed to reduce or significantly mitigate 

specific, identifiable risks of individual or aggregated 

positions. Fifth Third is required to conduct an 

analysis supporting its hedging strategy and the 

effectiveness of hedges must be monitored and 

recalibrated as necessary. Fifth Third will be required 
to document, contemporaneously with the 
transaction, the hedging rationale for certain 

transactions that present heighted compliance risks. 

Under the market-making exemption, a trading desk 

is required to routinely stand ready to purchase and 

sell one or more types of financial instruments. The 

trading desk™s inventory in these types of financial 

instruments has to be designed not to exceed, on an 
ongoing basis, the reasonably expected near-term 
demands of customers.  The Volcker Rule and the rulemakings promulgated 
thereunder restrict banks and their affiliated entities 
from investing in or sponsoring certain private equity 

and hedge funds.  Fifth Third does not sponsor any 

private equity or hedge funds that it is prohibited 

from sponsoring.  As of December 31, 2013, the 

Bancorp had approximately $181 million in interests 

and approximately $80 million in binding 
commitments to invest in private equity funds likely 
to be affected by the Volcker rule. It is expected that 

over time the Bancorp may need to eliminate these 

investments although it is likely that these 

investments will be reduced over time in the ordinary 

course before compliance is required. Fifth Third 

expects to be able to hold these investments until July 
2015 with no restriction, and be eligible to obtain up 
to two one-year extension periods, subject to 
regulatory approvals. A forced sale of some of these 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  34  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 investments could result in Fifth Third receiving less 
value than it would otherwise have received.  
 The FDIC and the Federal Reserve adopted a final 
rule that requires bank holding companies that have 
$50 billion or more in assets, like Fifth Third, to 

periodically submit to the Federal Reserve, the FDIC 

and the FSOC a plan discussing how the company 
could be resolved in a rapid and orderly fashion if the 
company were to fail or experience material financial 

distress. In a related rulemaking, the FDIC adopted a 

final rule that requires insured depository institutions 

with $50 billion or more in assets, like Fifth Third, to 

annually prepare and submit a resolution plan to the 

FDIC, which would include, among other things, an 

analysis of how the institution could be resolved 
under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as 
amended (the ﬁFDIAﬂ) in a manner that protects 

depositors and limits losses or costs to creditors of 

the bank. Initial plans for Fifth Third and its bank 

subsidiary have been submitted, in accordance with 

the final regulatory rules, 
for review by the FDIC, the 
Federal Reserve, and the FSOC. The Federal Reserve 

and the FDIC may jointly impose restrictions on 
Fifth Third or its bank subsidiary, including 
additional capital requirements or limitations on 

growth, if the agencies dete
rmine that the institution™s plan is not credible or would not facilitate a rapid and 

orderly resolution of Fifth Third under the U.S. 

Bankruptcy Code, or Fifth Third Bank under the 

FDIA, and additionally could require Fifth Third to 

divest assets or take other actions if it did not submit 
an acceptable resolution within two years after any 
such restrictions were imposed. 
 Title VII of Dodd-Frank imposes a new regulatory 
regime on the U.S. derivatives markets. While some 
of the provisions related to derivatives markets went 

into effect on July 16, 2011, most of the new 

requirements await final regu
lations from the relevant 
regulatory agencies for derivatives, the Commodities 

Futures Trading Commission (ﬁCFTCﬂ) and the 

SEC. One aspect of this new regulatory regime for 
derivatives is that substantial oversight responsibility 
has been provided to the CFTC, which, as a result, 

will for the first time have a meaningful supervisory 

role with respect to some of our businesses. 

Although the ultimate impact
 will depend on the final 
regulations, Fifth Third expects that its derivatives 

business will likely be su
bject to new substantive 
requirements, including registration with the CFTC, 
margin requirements in excess of current market 
practice, capital requirements specific to this 

business, real time trade reporting and robust record 

keeping requirements, business conduct requirements 

(including daily valuations, disclosure of material risks 

associated with swaps and disclosure of material 

incentives and conflicts of interest), and mandatory 

clearing and exchange trading of all standardized 
swaps designated by the relevant regulatory agencies 
as required to be cleared. These requirements will 

collectively impose implementation and ongoing 

compliance burdens on Fifth Third and will 

introduce additional legal risk (including as a result of 
newly applicable antifraud and anti-manipulation 
provisions and private rights of action). Depending 

on the final rules that relate to Fifth Third™s swaps 

businesses, the nature and 
extent of those businesses 
may change.  Financial institutions may be required, regardless of 
risk, to pay taxes or other fees to the U.S. Treasury. 
Such taxes or other fees could be designed to 
reimburse the U.S. Treasury for the many 

government programs and initiatives it has taken or 

may undertake as part of its economic stimulus 

efforts. The Department of Treasury issued an 

interim final rule in 2012 to establish an assessment 

schedule for the collection of fees from bank holding 

companies with at least $50 billion in assets and 
foreign banks with at least $50 billion in assets in the 
U.S. to cover the expenses of the Office of Financial 

Research and FSOC. In August 2013, the FRB also 

adopted a final rule to implement an assessment 

provision under the Dodd-Frank Act equal to the 

expense the FRB estimates are necessary or 

appropriate to supervise and regulate bank holding 

companies with $50 billion or more in assets.  
 On July 31, 2013, the U.S.
 District Court for the 
District of Columbia issued an order granting 
summary judgment to the plaintiffs in a case 
challenging certain provisions of the FRB™s rule 

concerning electronic debit card transaction fees and 

network exclusivity arrangements that were adopted 

to implement Section 1075 of the Dodd-Frank Act, 

known as the Durbin Amendment. The Court held 

that, in adopting the Current Rule, the FRB violated 

the Durbin Amendment™s provisions concerning 
which costs are allowed to be
 taken into account for 
purposes of setting fees that are reasonable and 

proportional to the costs incurred by the issuer and 

therefore, the Current Ru
le™s maximum permissible 
fees were too high. In addition, the Court held that 

the Current Rule™s network non-exclusivity 

provisions concerning unaffiliated payment networks 

for debit cards also violated the Durbin Amendment. 
The Court vacated the Current Rule, but stayed its 
ruling to provide the FRB an opportunity to replace 

invalidated portions. The FRB has appealed this 

decision. If this decision is ultimately upheld and/or 

the FRB re-issues rules for purposes of implementing 

the Durbin Amendment in a manner consistent with 

this decision, the amount of debit card interchange 

fees the Bancorp would be permitted to charge 
would likely be reduced, thereby negatively affecting 
the Bancorp™s financial performance. It is clear that the reforms, 
both under the Dodd-Frank Act and 
otherwise, will have a significant effect on the entire financial 

industry. Although it is difficult to predict the magnitude and extent 

of these effects at this stage, 
Fifth Third believes compliance with 
the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations and other 

initiatives will likely negatively impact revenue and increase the cost 
of doing business, both in terms of transition expenses and on an 
ongoing basis, and may also limit Fifth Third™s ability to pursue 

certain desirable business oppor
tunities. Any new regulatory requirements or changes to existing requirements could require 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  35  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 changes to Fifth Third™s businesses, result in increased compliance 
costs and affect the profitability of such businesses. Additionally, 

reform could affect the behaviors of third parties that we deal with 

in the course of our business, su
ch as rating agencies, insurance 
companies and investors. The ex
tent to which Fifth Third can 
adjust its strategies to offset such adverse impacts also is not known 
at this time.  
 Fifth Third and/or its affiliates
 are or may become the subject 
of litigation which could result in legal liability and damage to 
Fifth Third™s reputation.  
Fifth Third and certain of its directors and officers have been 

named from time to time as defendants in various class actions and 
other litigation relating to Fifth Thir
d™s business and activities. Past, 
present and future litigation have included or could include claims 

for substantial compensatory and/or 
punitive damages or claims for 
indeterminate amounts of damages. These matters could result in 

material adverse judgments, settlements
, fines, penalties, injunctions 
or other relief, amendments and/or restatements of Fifth Third™s 

SEC filings and/or financial stat
ements, as applicable and/or 
determinations of material weaknesses in its disclosure controls and 
procedures.  Like other large financial institutions and companies, 
Fifth Third is also subject to risk from potential employee 

misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and improper 

use or disclosure of confident
ial information. Substantial legal 
liability or significant regulatory action against Fifth Third could 

materially adversely affect its busi
ness, financial condition or results 
of operations and/or cause signif
icant reputational harm to its 
business. 
 Fifth Third™s ability to pay or increase dividends on its 
common stock or to repurchase its capital stock is restricted. 
Fifth Third™s ability to pay dividend
s or repurchase stock is subject 
to regulatory requirements and the need to meet regulatory 

expectations. Fifth Third is subject
 to an annual assessment by the 
FRB as part of CCAR. The mandatory elements of the capital plan 

are an assessment of the expected use and sources of capital over 
the planning horizon, a description of all planned capital actions 
over the planning horizon, a discussion of any expected changes to 

the Bancorp™s business plan that are likely to have a material impact 

on its capital adequacy or liquidity
, a detailed description of the 
Bancorp™s process for assessing capital adequacy and the Bancorp™s 

capital policy. The capital plan 
must reflect the revised capital 
framework that the FRB adopted in connection with the 

implementation of the Basel III accord, including the framework™s 
minimum regulatory capital ratios
 and transition arrangements. Fifth 
Third™s stress testing results and 2014 capital plan were submitted to 
the FRB on January 6, 2014. 
The FRB™s review of the capital plan will assess the 
comprehensiveness of the capital plan, the reasonableness of the 

assumptions and the analysis underlying the capital plan. 

Additionally, the FRB will review 
the robustness of the capital 
adequacy process, the capital policy and the Bancorp™s ability to 
maintain capital above the minimu
m regulatory capital ratios and 
above a Tier 1 common ratio of 5 percent under baseline and 

stressful conditions throughout a nine-quarter planning horizon.  
   MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  36  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 STATEMENTS OF INCOME ANALYSIS 
Net Interest Income 
Net interest income is the interest earned on securities, loans and 
leases (including yield-related fees) and other interest-earning assets 
less the interest paid for core deposits (includes transaction deposits 

and other time deposits) and wholes
ale funding (includes certificates 
of deposit $100,000 and over, other deposits, federal funds 

purchased, short-term borrowings and long-term debt). The net 

interest margin is calculated by dividing net interest income by 

average interest-earning assets. Net interest rate spread is the 

difference between the average yield earned on interest-earning 
assets and the average rate paid 
on interest-bearing liabilities. Net 
interest margin is typically greater than net interest rate spread due 

to the interest income earned on those assets that are funded by 

noninterest-bearing liabilities, or 
free funding, such as demand 
deposits or shareholders™ equity. 
Table 5 presents the components of net interest income, net 
interest margin and net interest rate spread for the years ended 

December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. N
onaccrual loans and leases 
and loans held for sale have been 
included in the average loan and 
lease balances. Average outstanding 
securities balances are based on 
amortized cost with any unrealize
d gains or losses on available-for-
sale securities included in other assets. Table 6 provides the relative 

impact of changes in the balance sheet and changes in interest rates 

on net interest income.  
Net interest income was $3.6 billion for the years ended 
December 31, 2013 and 2012. Included
 within net interest income 
are amounts related to the amortization and accretion of premiums 
and discounts on acquired loans and deposits, primarily as a result 

of acquisitions in previous years, which increased net interest 

income by $17 million during 2013 and $31 million during 2012. 

The original purchase accounting discounts reflected the high 

discount rates in the market at th
e time of the acquisitions; the total 
loan discounts are being accreted into net interest income over the 

remaining period to maturity of 
the loans acquired. Based upon the 
remaining period to maturity, and excluding the impact of 
prepayments, the Bancorp anticipates recognizing approximately $5 

million in additional net interest income during 2014 as a result of 

the amortization and accretion of premiums and discounts on 

acquired loans and deposits. 
For the year ended December 31, 2013, net interest income 
was negatively impacted by a 36 bps decline in yields on the 

Bancorp™s interest-earning assets compared to the year ended 
December 31, 2012. The decrease in yields on interest earning assets 
was partially offset by an increase 
in average loans and leases of $4.3 
billion as well as a decrease in interest expense compared to the 

prior year. The decrease in interest expense was primarily the result 

of a 59 bps decrease in the rate paid on average long-term debt 

coupled with a $1.1 billion decrease in average long-term debt for 

the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to the year ended 

December 31, 2012. For the year ended December 31, 2013, the net 
interest rate spread decreased to
 3.15% from 3.35% in 2012 as the 
benefit of the decreases in rates on interest-bearing liabilities was 

more than offset by a decrease in yield on average interest-earning 

assets. 
Net interest margin was 3.32% for the year ended December 
31, 2013 compared to 3.55% for the year ended December 31, 2012. 
Net interest margin was impacted by the amortization and accretion 

of premiums and discounts on acquired loans and deposits that 
resulted in an increase in net in
terest margin of 2 bps during 2013 
compared to 3 bps during 2012. Exclusive of these amounts, net 

interest margin decreased 22 bps for the year ended December 31, 

2013 compared to the prior year driven primarily by the previously 

mentioned decline in the yield on average interest-earning assets 

coupled with an increase in averag
e interest-earning assets, partially 
offset by a decrease in interest expense primarily related to long-
term debt.  
Interest income from loans and 
leases decreased $126 million, 
or four percent, compared to the year ended December 31, 2012 

primarily due to a decrease of 34 bps in yields on average loans and 

leases partially offset by an increa
se of five percent in average loans 
and leases for the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to 2012. 
The increase in average loans and leases for the year ended 

December 31, 2013 was driven primarily by an increase of 15% in 

average commercial and industrial lo
ans and an increase of eight 
percent in average residential mortgage loans compared to the year 
ended December 31, 2012. For more information on the Bancorp™s 

loan and lease portfolio, see the 
Loans and Leases section of the 
Balance Sheet Analysis of the MD&A. In addition, interest income 

from investment securities and 
other short-term investments 
decreased $6 million, or one percent, compared to the year ended 

2012 primarily due to a 29 bps decrease in the average yield on 

taxable securities partially offset by an increase of $1.1 billion in 
average taxable securities.  
Average core deposits increased $4.3 billion, or five percent, 
compared to the year ended December
 31, 2012 primarily due to an 
increase in average money market deposits and average demand 

deposits partially offset by a decrease in average savings deposits. 

The cost of interest bearing core deposits decreased to 27 bps for 

the year ended December 31, 2013 from 31 bps for the year ended 

December 31, 2012. This decrease was primarily the result of a mix 
shift to lower cost interest bearing 
core deposits as a result of run-
off of higher priced CDs combined with decreases of 5 bps in the 

rate paid on average savings deposits and a decrease of 26 bps on 

average other time deposits compared to the year ended December 

31, 2012. Interest expense on average wholesale funding for the year 
ended December 31, 2013 decreased $83 million, or 24%, compared 

to the prior year, primarily due to a decrease in the rates paid on 
average long-term debt of 59 bps for the year ended December 31, 
2013 compared to 2012 coupled with a decrease of $1.1 billion in 

average long-term debt. The reduction in higher cost long-term debt 

was primarily the result of the full year impact of the redemption of 

outstanding TruPS and FHLB debt in the second half of 2012. In 

the third quarter of 2012, the Bancorp redeemed $1.4 billion of 

outstanding TruPS which had 
a 7.25% distribution rate. 
Additionally, in the fourth quarte
r of 2012, the Bancorp terminated 
$1.0 billion of FHLB debt with a fixed rate of 4.56%. These 
decreases were partially offset by the issuance of $1.3 billion of 

unsecured senior bank notes in th
e first quarter of 2013. Refer to 
the Borrowings section of MD&A for additional information on the 

Bancorp™s changes in average borrowings. During the years ended 

December 31, 2013 and 2012, wholesale funding represented  24% 

of interest-bearing liabilities. For more information on the 

Bancorp™s interest rate risk management, including estimated 
earnings sensitivity to changes in market interest rates, see the 
Market Risk Management section of MD&A.   
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  37  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 5: CONSOLIDATED AVERAGE BALANCE SHEET AND ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME
    For the years ended December 31 
2013 
 2012 
   2011 
          Average 
        Average            Average     Average  
Revenue/ 
Yield/ 
 Average  
Revenue/ 
Yield/ 
    Average  
  Revenue/ 
Yield/ 
($ in millions) 
  Balance 
 Cost Rate 
 Balance 
 Cost Rate 
      Balance 
  Cost Rate 
 Assets                                     Interest-earning assets: 
                                  Loans and leases:
(a)
                                          Commercial and industrial loans
 $ 37,770 
$1,361 
 3.60 
% $32,911 
$1,349
 4.10 
%   $28,546 
$1,240 
 4.34
%Commercial mortgage  
  8,481 
306 
 3.60 
   9,686 
369
 3.81 
    10,447 
417 
 3.99
Commercial construction 
  793 
27 
 3.45 
   835 
25 2.99 
    1,740 
53 
 3.06
Commercial leases 
  3,565 
116  3.26 
   3,502 
127
 3.62 
    3,341 
133 
 3.99
Subtotal Œ commercial 
  50,609 
1,810  3.58 
   46,934 
1,870
3.98 
    44,074 
1,843 
4.18
 Residential mortgage loans 
  14,428 564 
 3.91 
   13,370 
543
 4.06 
    11,318 
503 
 4.45
 Home equity 
  9,554 
355 
 3.71 
   10,369 
393
 3.79 
    11,077 
433 
 3.91
 Automobile loans 
  12,021 373 
 3.10 
   11,849 
439
 3.70 
    11,352 
530 
 4.67
 Credit card 
  2,121 
209 
 9.87 
   1,960 
192
 9.79 
    1,864 
184 
 9.86
 Other consumer loans/leases 
  360 
155  42.93 
   340 
155
 45.32 
    529 
136 
 25.77
 Subtotal Œ consumer 
  38,484 
1,656 
 4.30 
   37,888 
1,722
4.54 
    36,140 
1,786 
4.94
 Total loans and leases 
  89,093 
3,466 
 3.89 
   84,822 
3,592
4.23 
    80,214 
3,629 
4.52
 Securities: 
                       Taxable  
  16,395 518 
 3.16 
   15,262 
527
 3.45 
    15,334 
596 
 3.89
 Exempt from income taxes
(a)   49 
3  5.29 
   57 
2 3.29 
    103 
6  5.41
 Other short-term investments 
  2,417 
6  0.26 
   1,495 
4 0.26 
    2,031 
5  0.25
 Total interest-earning assets 
  107,954 
3,993 
3.70 
   101,636 
4,125
4.06 
    97,682 
4,236 
4.34
 Cash and due from banks 
  2,482 
        2,355 
        2,352 
   Other assets 
  15,053         15,695 
        15,335 
   Allowance for loan and lease losses 
  (1,757)        (2,072)
         (2,703)
     Total assets 
$ 123,732 
       $117,614 
        $112,666 
   Liabilities and Equity
                          Interest-bearing liabilities: 
                         Interest checking $ 23,582 
$53 
 0.23 
% $23,096 
$49 0.22 
%   $18,707 
$49 
 0.26
%Savings  
  18,440 22 
 0.12 
  21,393 
37 0.17 
    21,652 
67 
 0.31
 Money market   9,467 
23 
 0.25 
  4,903 
11 0.22 
    5,154 
14 
 0.27
 Foreign office deposits 
  1,501 
4  0.28 
  1,528 
4 0.27 
    3,490 
10 
 0.28
 Other time deposits 
  3,760 
50 
 1.33   4,306 
68 1.59 
    6,260 
140 
 2.23
 Certificates - $100,000 and over 
  6,339 
50 
 0.78 
  3,102 
46 1.48 
    3,656 
72 
 1.97
 Other deposits 
  17 -  0.11   27 
- 0.13 
    7 -  0.03
 Federal funds purchased 
  503 
1  0.12 
  560 
1 0.14 
    345 
-  0.11
 Other short-term borrowings 
  3,024 
5  0.18 
  4,246 
8 0.18 
    2,777 
3  0.12
 Long-term debt 
  7,914 
204 
 2.58 
  9,043 
288
 3.17 
    10,154 
306 
 3.01
 Total interest-bearing liabilities 
  74,547 
412 
 0.55 
  72,204 
512
0.71 
    72,202 
661 
0.92
 Demand deposits 
  29,925 
       27,196 
        23,389 
   Other liabilities 
  4,917 
       4,462 
        4,189 
   Total liabilities 
  109,389 
       103,862 
        99,780 
   Total equity 
  14,343        13,752 
        12,886 
   Total liabilities and equity 
$ 123,732 
       $117,614 
        $112,666 
   Net interest income  
    $3,581 
        $3,613
       $3,575 
    Net interest margin 
       3.32 
%      3.55 
%     3.66
%Net interest rate spread 
       3.15 
       3.35 
      3.42
 Interest-bearing liabilities to interest-earning assets 
   69.05 
      71.04 
         73.92
 (a) The FTE adjustments included in the above table are 
$20
 for the year ended 
December 31, 2013 
and $18 for the years ended 2012 and 2011. The federal statutory rate utilized was 35% for 
all periods presented.
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  38  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 6: CHANGES IN NET INTEREST INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO VOLUME AND YIELD/RATE
(a) 
   For the years ended December 31
 2013 Compared to 2012
   2012 Compared to 2011
 ($ in millions) 
 Volume 
Yield/Rate
Total 
  Volume 
Yield/Rate
Total 
 Assets                        Interest-earning assets: 
                       Loans and leases: 
                       Commercial and industrial loans 
$ 187
 (175)
  12 
   $ 180 
 (71)
  109
 Commercial mortgage  
  (44)
 (19)
  (63)
      (30)
 (18)
  (48)
 Commercial construction 
  (2)
 4  2 
      (27)
 (1)
  (28)
 Commercial leases 
  2 (13)
  (11)
      7 
 (13)
  (6)
 Subtotal Œ commercial loans and leases 
  143
 (203)
  (60)
      130 
 (103)
 27
 Residential mortgage loans 
  42
 (21)
  21 
      87 
 (47)
  40
 Home equity 
  (31)
 (7)
  (38)
      (27)
 (13)
  (40)
 Automobile loans 
  6 (72)
  (66)
      23 
 (114)
  (91)
 Credit card 
  15
 2  17 
      9 
 (1)
  8 Other consumer loans/leases 
  8 (8)
  - 
      (59)
 78 
  19
 Subtotal Œ consumer loans and leases 
  40
 (106)
  (66)
      33 
 (97)
 (64)
 Total loans and leases 
  183
 (309)
  (126)
      163 
 (200)
 (37)
 Securities: 
            Taxable  
  38
 (47)
  (9)
      (2)
 (67)
  (69)
 Exempt from income taxes 
  1 -  1 
      (2)
 (2)
  (4)
 Other short-term investments 
  2 -  2 
      (1)
 - 
  (1)
 Subtotal Œ securities and other short-term investments 
  41 (47)
 (6)
      (5)
 (69)
 (74)
 Total change in interest income 
$ 224
 (356)
  (132)
   $ 158 
 (269)
 (111)
 Liabilities             Interest-bearing liabilities: 
            Interest checking $ - 4  4 
   $ 9 
 (9)
  - Savings  
  (4)
 (11)
  (15)
    - 
 (30)
  (30)
 Money market   11
 1  12 
    (1)
 (2)
  (3)
 Foreign office deposits 
  - -  - 
    (6)
 - 
  (6)
 Other time deposits 
  (8)
 (10)
  (18)
    (38)
 (34)
  (72)
 Certificates - $100,000 and over 
  33
 (29)
  4 
    (10)
 (16)
  (26)
 Federal funds purchased 
  - -  - 
    1 
 - 
  1 Other short-term borrowings 
  (3)
 -  (3)
    3 
 2 
  5 Long-term debt 
  (34)
 (50)
  (84)
    (34)
 16 
  (18)
 Total change in interest expense 
  (5)
 (95)
  (100)
    (76)
 (73)
 (149)
 Total change in net interest income 
$ 229
 (261)
  (32)
   $ 234 
 (196)
  38
 (a) Changes in interest not solely due to volume or yield/rate are al
located in proportion to the absolute dollar amount of change 
in volume and yield/rate. 
 Provision for Loan and Lease Losses 
The Bancorp provides as an expense an amount for probable loan 
and lease losses within the loan and 
lease portfolio that is based on 
factors previously discussed in the Critical Accounting Policies 
section. The provision is recorded to bring the ALLL to a level 
deemed appropriate by the Bancorp to cover losses inherent in the 

portfolio. Actual credit losses on loans and leases are charged 

against the ALLL. The amount of loans actually removed from the 

Consolidated Balance Sheets is referred to as charge-offs. Net 

charge-offs include current period charge-offs less recoveries on 

previously charged-off loans and leases. The provision for loan and lease losses decreased to $229 
million in 2013 compared to $303 m
illion in 2012. The decrease in 
provision expense for 2013 compared to the prior year was due to 
decreases in nonperforming loans and leases, improved delinquency 
metrics in commercial and cons
umer loans and leases, and 
improvement in underlying loss tr
ends. The ALLL declined $272 
million from $1.9 billion at December 31, 2012 to $1.6 billion at 
December 31, 2013. As of December 31, 2013, the ALLL as a 
percent of portfolio loans and leas
es decreased to 1.79%, compared 
to 2.16% at December 31, 2012.  
Refer to the Credit Risk Management section of the MD&A as 
well as Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

for more detailed information on the provision for loan and lease 

losses, including an analysis of
 loan portfolio composition, 
nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, and other factors considered 
by the Bancorp in assessing the credit quality of the loan and lease 
portfolio and the ALLL.  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  39  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Noninterest Income
 Noninterest income increased $228 million, or eight percent, fo
r the year ended December 31, 2013 compared to the year ended De
cember 31, 2012. The components of noninterest income are as follows:  
         TABLE 7: NONINTEREST INCOME
                    For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
 2013 
 2012 
 2011  
2010  
2009  
Mortgage banking net revenue 
$ 700 
 845 
 597 
 647 
 553
  Service charges on deposits 
  549 
 522 
 520 
 574 
 632
  Corporate banking revenue 
  400 
 413 
 350 
 364 
 372
  Investment advisory revenue 
  393 
 374 
 375 
 361 
 326
  Card and processing revenue 
  272 
 253 
 308 
 316 
 615
  Gain on sale of the processing business 
  - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1,758
  Other noninterest income 
  879 
 574 
 250 
 406 
 479
  Securities gains (losses), net 
  21 
 15 
 46 
 47 
 (10)
  Securities gains, net, non-qualifying hedges on mortgage servicing rights 
  13 
 3 
 9 
 14 
 57
  Total noninterest income 
$ 3,227 
 2,999 
 2,455 
 2,729 
 4,782
                         Mortgage banking net revenu
e Mortgage banking net revenue decreased $145 million, or 17%, in 
2013 compared to 2012.  The components of mortgage banking net 
revenue are 
as follows:                     TABLE 8: COMPONENTS OF MO
RTGAGE BANKING NET REVENUE
                 For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
  2013 
   2012  
 2011  
Origination fees and gains on loan sales 
$453 
    821 
   396 
  Net mortgage servicing revenue: 
                  Gross mortgage servicing fees 
 251 
    250 
   234 
    Mortgage servicing rights amortization 
 (166)    (186)
   (135)
    Net valuation adjustments on servicing rights and free-standing derivatives  
                    entered into to economically hedge MSR 
 162     (40)
   102 
  Net mortgage servicing revenue 
 247 
    24 
   201 
  Mortgage banking net revenue 
$700 
    845 
   597 
                   Origination fees and gains on loan sales decreased $368 million in 
2013 compared to 2012 primarily as the result of a decrease in profit 
margins on sold residential mortgage loans coupled with an 11% 
decrease in residential mortgage 
loan originations. Residential 
mortgage loan originations decrea
sed to $22.3 billion in 2013 from 
$25.2 billion in 2012. The decrease in 
originations is primarily due to 
a decrease in refinancing activity during the second half of 2013 as 

mortgage rates continued to rise and fewer borrowers were able to 

achieve savings by refinancing their mortgages.  
Net servicing revenue is comprised of gross servicing fees and 
related servicing rights amortization as well as valuation adjustments 
on MSRs and mark-to-market ad
justments on both settled and 
outstanding free-standing derivati
ve financial instruments used to 
economically hedge the MSR portfolio. Net servicing revenue 

increased $223 million in 2013 comp
ared to 2012 driven primarily 
by increases of $202 million in net valuation adjustments. 

Additionally, servicing rights amortization decreased by $20 million 

in 2013 compared to 2012 driven by lower prepayments due to an 
increase in interest rates in 2013 compared to 2012. 
The net valuation adjustment gain of $162 million during 2013 
included a recovery of temporary impairment of $192 million on 

MSRs partially offset by $30 million in losses from derivatives 

economically hedging the MSRs. The net valuation adjustment loss 

of $40 million during 2012 included $103 million of temporary 

impairment on the MSRs partially offset by $63 million in gains 

from derivatives economically hedging the MSRs. Servicing rights 
are deemed impaired when a borrower™s loan rate is distinctly higher 
than prevailing rates. Impairment on 
servicing rights is reversed 
when the prevailing rates return to
 a level commensurate with the 
borrower™s loan rate. Mortgage rates increased during 2013 which 

caused modeled prepayments speeds to slow, and led to the 
recovery of temporary impairment on servicing rights during the 
year. Mortgage rates decreased in 2012 causing modeled prepayment 
speeds to increase, which led 
to the temporary impairment on 
servicing rights in 2012. Further detail on the valuation of MSRs can 

be found in Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial 

Statements. The Bancorp maintains a non-qualifying hedging 

strategy to manage a portion of the risk associated with changes in 

the valuation on the MSR portfolio. See Note 12 of the Notes to 

Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the 

free-standing derivatives used to economically hedge the MSR 
portfolio. 
In addition to the derivative positions used to economically 
hedge the MSR portfolio, the Bancorp acquires various securities as 
a component of its non-qualifying hedging strategy. The Bancorp 

recognized net gains of $13 milli
on and $3 million during the years 
ended 2013 and 2012, respectively, record
ed in securities gains, net, 
non-qualifying hedges on mortgage se
rvicing rights in the Bancorp™s 
Consolidated Statement of Income.  
The Bancorp™s total residential loans serviced as of December 
31, 2013 and 2012 was $82.7 billion and $77.3 billion, respectively, 

with $69.2 billion and $62.5 billion,
 respectively, of residential 
mortgage loans serviced for others. 
 Service charges on deposits 

Service charges on deposits increased $27 million in 2013 compared 

to 2012. Commercial deposit revenue increased $17 million in 2013 
compared to 2012 primarily due to increased treasury management 
fees as a result of pricing chan
ges implemented in the third quarter 
of 2012 and the third quarter of 2013 and the acquisition of new 

customers. Consumer deposit revenue increased $10 million due to 

an increase in consumer checking fees due to new deposit product 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  40  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 offerings partially offset by the elimination of daily overdraft fees on 
continuing consumer overdraft positions which took effect in the 

second quarter of 2012.  Corporate banking revenue Corporate banking revenue decreased $13 million in 2013 compared 

to 2012. The decrease from the prior year was primarily the result of 

a decrease in lease remarketing fees 
partially offset by an increase in 
syndication fees. The decline in lease remarketing fees was driven by 

a $9 million write-down of equipment value on an operating lease 

during the fourth quarter of 2013.  
 Investment advisory revenue Investment advisory revenue increased $19 million in 2013 

compared to 2012. The increase was 
primarily due to an increase of 
$17 million in securities and br
okerage fees due to strong 
production and an increase in equity and bond market values 
coupled with an increase of $15 million in private client service fees, 
partially offset by a decrease in mutual fund fees. Due to the sale of 

certain funds by ClearArc Capital, Inc., formerly Fifth Third Asset 

Management, during the third quarter of 2012, mutual fund fees 
decreased $13 million in 2013 compared to 2012. The Bancorp had 
approximately $302 billion and $308 billion in total assets under care 

as of December 31, 2013 and December
 31, 2012, respectively, and 
managed $27 billion in assets for 
individuals, corporations and not-
for-profit organizations as of December 31, 2013 and 2012. 

 
Card and processing revenue 
Card and processing revenue increased $19 million in 2013 
compared to 2012.  The increase wa
s primarily the result of higher 
transaction volumes. Debit card interchange revenue, included in 

card and processing revenue, was 
$122 million and $119 million for 
the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  
 Other noninterest income
               The major components of other noninterest income are as follows:
        TABLE 9: COMPONENTS OF OTHER NONINTEREST INCOME
              For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
 2013 
     2012 
  2011 
 Gain on sale of Vantiv, Inc. shares and Vantiv, Inc. IPO 
$336 
     272 
  -  Valuation adjustments on the warrant and put options associated with Vantiv Holding, LLC  
 206 
     67 
  39 
 Equity method income from interest in Vantiv Holding, LLC 
 77 
     61 
  57 
 Operating lease income 
75 
     60 
  58 
 BOLI income 
 52 
     35 
  41 
 Cardholder fees 
 47 
     46 
  41 
 Banking center income 
 34 
     32 
  27 
 Consumer loan and lease fees 
 27 
     27 
  31 
 Insurance income  25 
     28 
  28 
 Gain on loan sales 
 3      20 
  37 
 TSA revenue 
 1      1   21 
 Loss on OREO 
 (26)     (57)
  (71)
 Loss on swap associated with the sa
le of Visa, Inc. class B shares 
 (31)     (45)
  (83)
 Other, net 
 53 
     27 
  24 
 Total other noninterest income 
$879 
     574 
  250 
         Other noninterest income increased $305 million in 2013 compared 
to 2012. The positive valuation adjustments on the stock warrant 

associated with Vantiv Holding, 
LLC increased $139 million in 2013 
compared to 2012. In addition, gains of $242 million and $85 

million on the sale of Vantiv, Inc. shares were recorded in the 

second and third quarters of 2013, 
respectively, compared to gains 
of $115 million related to the Vantiv, Inc. IPO recorded in the first 

quarter of 2012 and a $157 million gain from the sale of Vantiv, Inc. 
shares during the fourth quarter 
of 2012. The Bancorp recognized a 
gain of $9 million associated with a tax receivable agreement with 

Vantiv, Inc. in the fourth qu
arter of 2013. The equity method 
earnings from the Bancorp™s interest in Vantiv Holding, LLC 

increased $16 million from 2012.  
BOLI income increased $17 million in 2013 compared to 2012 
primarily due to a $10 million settlement in the second quarter of 

2013 related to a previously surre
ndered BOLI policy. The loss on 
OREO decreased $31 million from 2012 due to a decrease in 
OREO balances year over year and a decrease in losses on 
commercial real estate in 2013 relating to fair value adjustments on 
OREO. Additionally, the Bancorp recognized $31 million and $45 

million in negative valuation adjustments related to the Visa total 

return swap for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, 

respectively. For additional info
rmation on the valuation of the 
swap associated with the sale of 
Visa, Inc. Class B shares and the 
valuation of the warrant and put opti
ons associated with the sale of 
Vantiv Holding, LLC, see Note 
27 of the Notes to Consolidated 
Financial Statements. 
The ﬁotherﬂ caption increased $26 million for the year ended 
2013 compared to 2012. The increase was primarily due to a 

decrease in lower of cost or market adjustments associated with the 

bank premises as the Bancorp record
ed $6 million in lower of cost 
or market adjustments in 2013 co
mpared to $21 million in 2012. 
Additionally, in response to the 
issuance of the Volcker Rule, the 
Bancorp recognized $4 million of OTTI on certain investments in 
private equity funds in 2013.  
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  41  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 10: NONINTEREST EXPENSE
                      For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
  2013 
 2012 
 2011  
2010  
2009  
Salaries, wages and incentives 
$1,5811,607 
1,478 
 1,430 
1,339 
Employee benefits  357
371 
330 
 314 
311 
Net occupancy expense 
 307
302 
305 
 298 
308 
Technology and communications 
 204
196 
188 
 189 
181 
Card and processing expense 
 134121 
120 
 108 
193 
Equipment expense 
 114110 
113 
 122 
123 
Other noninterest expense 
 1,2641,374 
1,224 
 1,394 
1,371 
Total noninterest expense 
$3,961
4,081 
3,758 
 3,855 
3,826 
Efficiency ratio 
 58.2
% 61.7 
62.3 
 60.7 
 46.9 
          Noninterest Expense
 Total noninterest expense decreased $120 million, or three percent, 

in 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to a decrease in total 

personnel costs (salaries, wages and incentives plus employee 

benefits) and other noninterest expense. Total personnel costs 
decreased $40 million, or two percent, in 2013 compared to 2012 
primarily due to a decrease in in
centive compensation driven by the 
mortgage business due to lower production levels in 2013, a 

decrease in base compensation, and 
a decrease in the number of full 
time equivalent employees from
 2012. Full time equivalent 
employees totaled 19,446 at December 31, 2013 compared to 20,798 
at December 31, 2012.  The major components of other noninterest expense are as follows:
               TABLE 11: COMPONENTS OF OTHER NONINTEREST EXPENSE
              For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
  2013 
  2012 
  2011 
  Losses and adjustments 
$221 
  187 
  129 
  Loan and lease 
 158   183 
  195 
  FDIC insurance and other taxes 
 127   114 
  201 
  Marketing 
 114   128 
  115 
  Impairment of affordable housing investments 
 108   90 
  85 
  Professional service fees 
 76 
  56 
  58 
  Operating lease 
 57 
  43 
  41 
  Travel 
 54 
  52 
  52 
  Postal and courier 
 48 
  48 
  49 
  Data processing 
 42 
  40 
  29 
  Recruitment and education 
 26 
  28 
  31 
  Insurance  17   18 
  25 
  OREO expense 
 16   21 
  34 
  Supplies 
 16   17 
  18 
  Intangible asset amortization 
 8   13 
  22 
  Loss (gain) on debt extinguishment 
 8   169 
  (8)
 Benefit from the reserve for unfunded
 commitments and letters of credit (17)  (2)
  (46)
  Other, net 
 185   169 
  194 
  Total other noninterest expense 
$ 1,264 
   1,374 
   1,224 
                 Total other noninterest expense decreased $110 million, or eight 
percent, in 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to a decline in debt 

extinguishment costs, decreases in 
loan and lease expenses and an 
increase in the benefit from the reserve for unfunded commitments 

and letters of credit, partially offset by increases in losses and 
adjustments and FDIC insurance and other taxes.  
Debt extinguishment costs decreased $161 million in 2013 
compared to 2012. During the four
th quarter of 2013, the Bancorp 
incurred $8 million of debt extinguishment costs associated with the 

redemption of outstanding TruPS 
issued by Fifth Third Capital 
Trust IV. During the third quarter of 2012, the Bancorp incurred 

$26 million of debt extinguishment costs associated with the 

redemption of the outstanding TruP
S issued by Fifth Third Capital 
Trust V and Fifth Third Capital Trust VI. In addition, during the 
fourth quarter of 2012, the Bancorp incurred $134 million of debt 

extinguishment costs associated with 
the termination of $1 billion of 
FHLB debt. Loan and lease expenses decreased $25 million in 2013 

compared to 2012 primarily due to a decrease in legal costs related 

to OREO and a decrease in loan 
closing fees due to a decline in 
mortgage originations. The benefit from the reserve for unfunded 

commitments and letters of credit was $17 million and $2 million in 
2013 and 2012, respectively. The incr
ease in the benefit recognized 
reflects a decrease in estimated loss rates related to unfunded 

commitments and letters of credit due to improved credit trends 

partially offset by an increase in
 unfunded commitments for which 
the Bancorp holds reserves. 
Losses and adjustments increased $34 million in 2013 
compared to 2012 primarily due to an increase in litigation expense 

partially offset by a decrease in re
presentation and warranty expense. 
Litigation expense increased $127 million in 2013 compared to 2012 

due to increased litigation and regulatory activity. The provision for 

representation and warranty claims decreased $92 million in 2013 

compared to 2012 due to the Bancorp recording significant 

additions to the reserve in 2012 as the result of additional 
information obtained from FHLMC regarding their file selection 
criteria which enabled the Bancorp to better estimate the losses that 
were probable on loans sold to FHLMC with representation and 

warranty provisions. In addition, 
2013 included a decrease in the 
representation and warranty reserve due to improving underlying 

repurchase metrics and the settlement with FHLMC.  
Additionally, FDIC insurance and other taxes increased $13 
million in 2013 compared to 2012 primarily due to a $23 million 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  42  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 reduction in other taxes in the first quarter of 2012 from an 
agreement reached on certain disputes for non-income tax related 

assessments.  
The Bancorp continues to focus on efficiency initiatives as part 
of its core emphasis on operating leverage and expense control. The 
efficiency ratio (noninterest expe
nse divided by the sum of net 
interest income (FTE) and noninterest income) was 58.2% for 2013 

compared to 61.7% in 2012.  Applicable Income Taxes 
Applicable income tax expense for all periods includes the 
benefit from tax-exempt income, tax-advantaged investments, 

certain gains on sales of leveraged leases that are exempt from 

federal taxation, and tax credits, 
partially offset by the effect of 
certain nondeductible expenses. The tax credits are associated with 

the Low-Income Housing Tax Cred
it program established under 
Section 42 of the IRC, the New Markets Tax Credit program 
established under Section 45D of
 the IRC, the Rehabilitation 
Investment Tax Credit program established under Section 47 of the 

IRC, and the Qualified Zone Academy Bond program established 

under Section 1397E of the IRC.  
The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2013 
and December 31, 2012 were primarily impacted by $155 million 

and $149 million, respectively, in
 tax credits, $9 million and $19 
million, respectively, of non-cash charges relating to previously 
recognized tax benefits associated
 with stock-based compensation 
that were not realized, and $27 million and $46 million, respectively, 

of tax-exempt income, which includes net interest income on tax-

exempt investments, income on life insurance policies held by the  

 
 
  Bancorp, and certain gains on the sale of leases that are exempt 

from federal taxation.  As required under U.S. GAAP, the Bancorp established a 
deferred tax asset for stock-based awards granted to its employees. 

When the actual tax deduction for these stock-based awards is less 

than the expense previously reco
gnized for financial reporting or 
when the awards expire unexerci
sed, the Bancorp is required to 
write-off the deferred tax asset pr
eviously established for these 
stock-based awards. As a result of
 the expiration of certain stock 
options and SARs and the lapse of restrictions on certain shares of 

restricted stock during the year ended December 31, 2013, the 

Bancorp recorded additional income tax expense of approximately 

$9 million related to the write-off of a portion of the deferred tax 

asset previously established.  
As a result of the Bancorp™s stock price at December 31, 2013, 
the Bancorp does not believe it w
ill need to recognize a material 
non-cash charge to income tax expense over the next twelve 

months related to stock-based awards.  However, the Bancorp 

cannot predict its stock price or wh
ether its employees will exercise 
other stock-based awards with lower 
exercise prices in the future.  
Therefore, it is possible the Bancorp may need to recognize a non-

cash charge to income tax expense in the future. 
The Bancorp™s income before income taxes, applicable inco
me tax expense and effective tax rate are as follows:  
          TABLE 12: APPLICABLE INCOME TAXES
                                 For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
   2013 
 2012 
 2011  
2010  
2009  
Income before income taxes  
$ 2,598 
  2,210 
   1,831 
    940 
   767 
  Applicable income tax expense  
   772 
  636 
   533 
    187 
   30 
  Effective tax rate 
   29.7 
%  28.8 
   29.1 
     19.8 
   3.9 
          MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  43  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 BUSINESS SEGMENT REVIEW 
The Bancorp reports on four business segments: Commercial 
Banking, Branch Banking, C
onsumer Lending and Investment 
Advisors. Additional detailed financial information on each business 
segment is included in Note 30 of the Notes to Consolidated 

Financial Statements. Results of 
the Bancorp™s business segments are presented based on its management structure and management 

accounting practices. The structure and accounting practices are 

specific to the Bancorp; therefor
e, the financial results of the 
Bancorp™s business segments are not necessarily comparable with 

similar information for other financial institutions. The Bancorp 
refines its methodologies from time to time as management™s 
accounting practices or businesses change.  
The Bancorp manages interest rate risk centrally at the 
corporate level and employs a FTP methodology at the business 

segment level. This methodology insulates the business segments 

from interest rate volatility, 
enabling them to focus on serving 
customers through loan and deposit products. The FTP system 

assigns charge rates and credit rates to classes of assets and 
liabilities, respectively, based on expected duration and the U.S. 
swap curve. Matching duration allo
cates interest income and interest 
expense to each segment so its resulting net interest income is 

insulated from interest rate risk. 
In a rising rate environment, the 
Bancorp benefits from the widening spread between deposit costs 

and wholesale funding costs. However, the Bancorp™s FTP system 

credits this benefit to deposit-providing businesses, such as Branch 

Banking and Investment Advisors, on a duration-adjusted basis. The 
net impact of the FTP methodology is captured in General 
Corporate and Other.   
The Bancorp adjusts the FTP charge and credit rates as 
dictated by changes in interest rates for various interest-earning 

assets and interest-bearing liabilitie
s. The credit rate provided for 
demand deposit accounts is re
viewed annually based upon the 
account type, its estimated duration and the corresponding fed 

funds, U.S. swap curve or swap 
rate. The credit rates for several 
deposit products were reset January 1, 2013 to reflect the current 

market rates and updated durati
on assumptions. These rates were 
generally higher than those in pla
ce during 2012, thus net interest 
income for deposit providing businesses was positively impacted 

during 2013.  The business segments are charged provision expense based on 
the actual net charge-offs experi
enced on the loans and leases 
owned by each segment. Provision expense attributable to loan and 

lease growth and changes in ALLL 
factors are captured in General 
Corporate and Other. The financial 
results of the business segments 
include allocations for shared serv
ices and headquarters expenses. 
Even with these allocations, the financial results are not necessarily 

indicative of the business segments™ financial condition and results 

of operations as if they existed as
 independent entities. Additionally, 
the business segments form synergies by taking advantage of cross-

sell opportunities and when funding operations, by accessing the 

capital markets as a collective unit.  
 Net income by business segment is summarized in the following table:
                TABLE 13: BUSINESS SEGMENT NET INCOME
 AVAILABLE TO COMMON SHAREHOLDERS
               For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
  2013 
 2012 
 2011  
Income Statement Data
             Commercial Banking
 $  766 
 694 
 441 
Branch Banking
    255 
 186 
 190 
Consumer Lending
    183 
 223 
 56 
Investment Advisors
    68 
 43 
 24 
General Corporate & Other
    554 
 428 
 587 
Net income
    1,826 
 1,574 
 1,298 
Less: Net income attributab
le to noncontrolling interests 
   (10)
 (2)
 1 
Net income attributable to Bancorp
    1,836 
 1,576 
 1,297 
Dividends on preferred stock 
   37 
 35 
 203 
Net income available to common shareholders
 $  1,799 
 1,541 
 1,094 
    MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  44  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Commercial Banking
 Commercial Banking offers credit 
intermediation, cash management 
and financial services to large and middle-market businesses and 

government and professional customers. In addition to the 
traditional lending and depository offerings, Commercial Banking 
products and services include global cash management, foreign 
exchange and international trade 
finance, derivatives and capital 
markets services, asset-based lending, real estate finance, public 
finance, commercial leasing and syndicated finance.  
 The following table contains selected financial data for the Commercial Banking segment:
                TABLE 14: COMMERCIAL BANKING
               For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
  2013 
 2012 
 2011  
 Income Statement Data 
            Net interest income (FTE)
(a) $  1,507 
 1,449 
 1,374 
Provision for loan and lease losses
    187 
 223 
 490 
Noninterest income:       Corporate banking revenue
    386 
 395 
 332 
    Service charges on deposits
    242 
 225 
 207 
    Other noninterest income
    152 
 117 
 102 
Noninterest expense:       Salaries, incentives and benefits
    273 
 268 
 240 
    Other noninterest expense
    870 
 838 
 833 
Income before taxes 
   957 
 857 
 452 
Applicable income tax expense
(a)(b)    191 
 163 
 11 
Net income
 $  766 
 694 
 441 
Average Balance Sheet Data 
  Commercial loans, including held for sale
 $  45,035 
 41,364 
 38,384 
Demand deposits
    15,255 
 15,046 
 13,130 
Interest checking    6,908 
 7,613 
 7,901 
Savings and money market
    4,284 
 2,669 
 2,776 
Other time and certificates - $100,000 and over
    1,299 
 1,793 
 1,778 
Foreign office deposits and other deposits
    1,467 
 1,282 
 1,581 
(a) Includes FTE adjustments of $20
 for the year ended 
December 31, 2013
 and $17
 for the years ended Decemb
er 31, 2012 and 2011. 
(b) Applicable income tax expense for all periods includes the tax bene
fit from tax-exempt income and business tax credits, partial
ly offset by the effect of certain 
nondeductible expenses. Refer to the 
Applicable Income Taxes section of the MD&A for additional information. 
 Comparison of 2013 with 2012 Net income was $766 million for the year ended December 31, 

2013, compared to net income of
 $694 million for the year ended 
December 31, 2012. The increase in net income was primarily 

driven by increases in net interest income and noninterest income 

and a decrease in the provision fo
r loan and lease losses, partially 
offset by higher noninterest expense. 
Net interest income increased $58 million primarily due to an 
increase in interest income relat
ed to an increase in average 
commercial and industrial portfolio 
loans, a decrease in the FTP 
charges on loans and an increase in
 FTP credits due to an increase 
in savings and money market deposits, partially offset by a decrease 

in yields of 29 bps on average 
commercial loans and a decrease in 
average commercial mortgage portfolio loans.  
Provision for loan and lease losses decreased $36 million from 
2012 as a result of improved credit trends. Net charge-offs as a 

percent of average portfolio loans and leases decreased to 42 bps for 

2013 compared to 54 bps for 2012.  
Noninterest income increased $43 million from 2012 to 2013, 
due to increases in service charges on deposits and other noninterest 

income, partially offset by a decrease in corporate banking revenue. 

Service charges on deposits increased $17 million from 2012 
primarily driven by commercial deposit revenue which increased 
due to fee repricing and the acquisition of new customers. The 

increase in other noninterest income was primarily due to decreases 

in negative valuation adjustments on OREO, increases in operating 

lease income, and decreases in negative valuation adjustments on 

loans held for sale, partially offset
 by decreases in gains on loan 
sales. The decrease in corporate banking revenue was primarily 

driven by a decrease in lease remarketing and letter of credit fees, 
partially offset by increases in syndication, business lending and 
foreign exchange fees. 
Noninterest expense increased $37 million from the prior year 
as a result of increases in salarie
s, incentives and benefits and other 
noninterest expense. The increase in 
salaries, incentives and benefits 
of $5 million was primarily the result of an increase in base 
compensation primarily driven by improved production levels. The 
increase from 2012 to 2013 in other noninterest expense was driven 

by increases in both impairment on affordable housing investments 

and operating lease expense. These 
increases were partially offset by 
a decrease in loan and lease expens
e, primarily due to a decrease in 
legal costs related to OREO, and a decrease in corporate overhead 

allocations. Average commercial loans increased $3.7 billion compared to 
the prior year primarily due to an increase in average commercial 
and industrial loans, partially o
ffset by a decrease in average 
commercial mortgage loans. Aver
age commercial and industrial 
portfolio loans increased $4.8 billion as a result of an increase in 

new origination activity from an
 increase in demand due to a 
strengthening economy and targeted marketing efforts. Average 

commercial mortgage portfolio loans decreased $1.1 billion due to 

continued run-off as the level of new originations was less than the 
repayments of the existing portfolio. 
Average core deposits increased $1.3 billion compared to 2012. 
The increase was primarily driven by strong growth in savings and 

money market deposits, which increased $1.6 billion, and demand 

deposits, which increased $209 milli
on, compared to the prior year, 
partially offset by a decrease in interest checking deposits of $705 

million. 
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  45  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Comparison of 2012 with 2011 Net income was $694 million for the year ended December 31, 

2012, compared to net income of
 $441 million for the year ended 
December 31, 2011. The increase in net income was primarily 

driven by a decrease in the prov
ision for loan and lease losses and 
increases in noninterest income 
and net interest income, partially 
offset by higher noninterest expense. 
Net interest income increased $75 million primarily due to an 
increase in interest income relat
ed to an increase in average 
commercial and industrial portfolio lo
ans and a decrease in the FTP 
charges on loans, partially offset by 
a decrease in yields of 12 bps on 
average commercial loans. Provis
ion for loan and lease losses 
decreased $267 million from 2011 as a result of improved credit 
trends. Net charge-offs as a percen
t of average portfolio loans and 
leases decreased to 54 bps for 2012 compared to 128 bps for 2011.  
Noninterest income increased $96 million from 2011 to 2012, 
due to increases in corporate banking revenue, service charges on 

deposits and other noninterest income. The increase in corporate 

banking revenue was primarily driven by increases in syndication 

fees, business lending fees, lease remarketing fees and institutional 
sales. Service charges on deposits increased from 2011 primarily due 
to new customer relationships. The increase in other noninterest 
income was primarily due to a decrease in net losses and valuation 

adjustments recognized on the sale of loans and OREO. 
Noninterest expense increased $33 million from 2011 as a 
result of increases in salaries, 
incentives and benefits and other 
noninterest expense. The increase in 
salaries, incentives and benefits 
of $28 million was primarily the result of increased base and 

incentive compensation due to improved production levels. The 
increase from 2011 to 2012 in other noninterest expense was due to 
higher corporate overhead allocations 
as a result of strategic growth 
initiatives, partially offset by a d
ecrease in loan and lease expenses 
and recognized derivative credit losses. 
Average commercial loans increased $3.0 billion compared to 
the prior year. Average commercial 
and industrial loans increased 
$4.5 billion from 2011 as a result of an increase in new loan 

origination activity, partially offset by decreases in average 
commercial mortgage and construction loans. Average commercial 
mortgage loans decreased $827 million and average commercial 

construction loans decreased $836 million due to continued run-off 

as the level of new originations was below the level of repayments 

on the current portfolio. 
Average core deposits increased $1.2 billion compared to 2011. 
The increase was primarily driven by strong growth in demand 

deposit accounts, which increased $1
.9 billion compared to the prior 
year. The increase in demand depos
it accounts was partially offset 
by decreases in interest-bearing deposits of $698 million as 

customers opted to maintain their 
balances in more liquid accounts 
due to interest rates remaining near historical lows. Branch Banking
  Branch Banking provides a full rang
e of deposit and loan and lease 
products to individuals and sm
all businesses through 1,320 full-
service Banking Centers. Branch Banking offers depository and loan 
products, such as checking and savings accounts, home equity loans 
and lines of credit, credit cards 
and loans for automobiles and other personal financing needs, as well as
 products designed to meet the 
specific needs of small businesses, including cash management 

services.   The following table contains selected financial data for the Branch Banking segment:
                TABLE 15: BRANCH BANKING
               For the years ended Decembe
r 31  ($ in millions) 
  2013 
 2012 
 2011  
 Income Statement Data 
            Net interest income 
 $  1,461 
 1,362 
 1,423 
Provision for loan and lease losses
    217 
 294 
 393 
Noninterest income:       Service charges on deposits
    304 
 294 
 309 
    Card and processing revenue
    291 
 279 
 305 
    Investment advisory revenue
    148 
 129 
 117 
    Other noninterest income
    111 
 110 
 106 
Noninterest expense:       Salaries, incentives and benefits
    584 
 573 
 581 
    Net occupancy and equipment expense
    243 
 241 
 235 
    Card and processing expense
    126 
 115 
 114 
    Other noninterest expense
    752 
 663 
 645 
Income before taxes 
   393 
 288 
 292 
Applicable income tax expense 
   138 
 102 
 102 
Net income
 $  255 
 186 
 190 
Average Balance Sheet Data 
  Consumer loans, including held for sale
 $  15,223 
 14,926 
 14,151 
Commercial loans, including held for sale
    4,534 
 4,569 
 4,621 
Demand deposits
    12,611 
 10,087 
 8,408 
Interest checking    9,028 
 9,262 
 8,086 
Savings and money market
    22,813 
 22,729 
 22,241 
Other time and certificates - $100,000 and over
    4,712 
 5,389 
 7,778 
    Comparison of 2013 with 2012 Net income was $255 million for the year ended December 31, 

2013, compared to net income of
 $186 million for the year ended 
December 31, 2012. The increase in 
net income of $69 million was 
driven by an increase in net interest income and noninterest income 
and a decline in the provision fo
r loan and lease losses, partially 
offset by an increase in noninterest expense.  
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  46  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Net interest income increased $99 million compared to the 
prior year primarily driven by an increase in the FTP credits due to 

an increase in savings and money market and interest checking 

deposits, a decrease in the FTP charges on loans and leases, a 
decline in interest expense on core deposits due to favorable shifts 
from certificates of deposit to lower cost transaction deposits and 

an increase in average consumer lo
ans and leases. These increases to net interest income were partially o
ffset by lower yields on average 
commercial loans.  
Provision for loan and lease losses for 2013 decreased $77 
million compared to the prior year as a result of improved credit 

trends. Net charge-offs as a percen
t of average portfolio loans and 
leases decreased to 110 bps for 2013 compared to 151 bps for 2012. 
Noninterest income increased $42 million compared to the 
prior year.  The increase was primarily driven by increases in 

investment advisory revenue, card and processing revenue and 

service charges on deposits. Investment advisory revenue increased 

$19 million from 2012 primarily due to increased securities and 

brokerage fees due to an increase 
in equity and bond market values. 
Card and processing revenue increased $12 million compared to the 
prior year due to higher transaction volumes, higher levels of 
consumer spending and the benefit of new products. Service 

charges on deposits increased $10 million from 2012 primarily due 

to an increase in account maintenance fees due to the full year 

impact of new deposit product offerings. 
Noninterest expense increased $113 million compared to the 
prior year, primarily driven by in
creases in salaries, incentives and 
benefits, card and processing expense and other noninterest 
expense. Salaries, incentives and be
nefits increased compared to the 
prior year primarily due to an increase in bonus and incentive 

compensation associated with impr
oved securities and brokerage 
revenue. Card and processing expense increased from 2012 due 

primarily to increases in debit and credit card transaction volumes, 

consumer spending, fraud insuran
ce costs and credit card rewards 
expense. The increase in other noninterest expense was primarily 

due to increases in corporate overhead allocations during 2013 
compared to 2012. 
Average consumer loans increased $297 million in 2013 
primarily due to increases in aver
age residential mortgage portfolio 
loans of $942 million compared to the prior year as a result of 

continued retention of certain shorter term residential mortgage 

loans. In addition, average cred
it card loans increased due to 
increases in average balances pe
r account and the volume of new 
customers. These increases were partially offset by decreases in 
average home equity portfolio loans of $743 million from 2012 as 
payoffs exceeded new loan production. 
 Average core deposits increased $1.8 billion compared to the 
prior year as the growth in demand deposits due to excess customer 

liquidity and a continued low intere
st rate environment was partially 
offset by the run-off of higher priced other time deposits. 

 
Comparison of 2012 with 2011 Net income decreased $4 million compared to 2011, driven by a 
decrease in net interest income and noninterest income and an 

increase in noninterest expense, partially offset by a decline in the 

provision for loan and lease losses. Net interest income decreased 
$61 million compared to 2011 primarily
 driven by decreases in the 
FTP credits for checking and savings products and lower yields on 

average commercial and consumer lo
ans.  These decreases were 
partially offset by higher consumer
 loan balances and a decline in 
interest expense on core deposits due to favorable shifts from 
certificates of deposit to lower cost transaction and savings 

products. Provision for loan and lease losses for 2012 decreased $99 
million compared to 2011 as a result of improved credit trends. Net 

charge-offs as a percent of aver
age portfolio loans and leases 
decreased to 151 bps for 2012 compared to 210 bps for 2011. The 

decrease was primarily due to decreases in home equity net charge-
offs as a result of improvements in 
several key markets.  In addition, 
net charge-offs were positively impacted by lower commercial net 

charge-offs due to improved de
linquency trends, aggressive line 
management, and stabilization in unemployment levels. 
Noninterest income decreased $25 million compared to 2011.  
The decrease was primarily driven by lower card and processing 

revenue, which declined $26 million from 2011 due to the 

implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act™s debit card interchange fee 
cap in the fourth quarter of 2011, pa
rtially offset by higher debit and 
credit card transaction volumes and the impact of the Bancorp™s 

initial mitigation activity, and allocated commission revenue 

associated with merchant sales. Service charges on deposits declined 

$15 million primarily due to the elimination of daily overdraft fees 

on continuing customer overdraft positions in the second quarter of 

2012. These decreases were partially offset by a $12 million increase 

in investment advisory revenue due to increased amounts from 
revenue sharing agreements between investment advisors and 
branch banking. 
Noninterest expense increased $17 million, primarily driven by 
increases in other noninterest expense due to an increase in 

allocated costs related to higher merchant sales and corporate 

overhead allocations as a result of strategic growth initiatives, 

partially offset by a decrease in FDIC insurance expense. Average consumer loans increased $775 million in 2012 
primarily due to increases in aver
age residential mortgage portfolio 
loans of $1.3 billion due to the retention of certain shorter-term 

originated mortgage loans. The increases in average residential 

mortgage portfolio loans was partially offset by decreases in average 

home equity portfolio loans of $560 million as payoffs exceeded 

new loan production. Average core deposits increased $1.4 billion 

compared to 2011 as the growth in
 transaction accounts due to 
excess customer liquidity and historically low interest rates outpaced 
the runoff of higher priced other time deposits. 
Consumer Lending 
Consumer Lending includes the Bancorp™s mortgage, home equity, 
automobile and other indirect lending activities. Mortgage and home 

equity lending activities include the origination, retention and 

servicing of mortgage and home equity loans or lines of credit, sales 

and securitizations of those loans, 
pools of loans or lines of credit, 
and all associated hedging activities. Indirect lending activities 

include loans to consumers through mortgage brokers and 

automobile dealers.  
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  47  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following table contains selected financial data for the Consumer Lending segment:
                TABLE 16: CONSUMER LENDING
               For the years ended Decembe
r 31  ($ in millions) 
  2013 
 2012 
 2011  
Income Statement Data
             Net interest income  
$  312 
 314 
 343 
Provision for loan and lease losses 
   92 
 176 
 261 
Noninterest income:       Mortgage banking net revenue 
   687 
 830 
 585 
    Other noninterest income 
   61 
 46 
 45 
Noninterest expense:       Salaries, incentives and benefits 
   215 
 231 
 183 
    Other noninterest expense 
   470 
 439 
 443 
Income before taxes 
   283 
 344 
 86 
Applicable income tax expense 
   100 
 121 
 30 
Net income 
$  183 
 223 
 56 
Average Balance Sheet Data
   Residential mortgage loans, including held for sale 
$  10,222 
 10,143 
 9,348 
Home equity 
   560 
 643 
 730 
Automobile loans, including held for sale 
   11,409 
 11,191 
 10,665 
Other consumer loans and leases 
   16 
 30 
 156 
    Comparison of 2013 with 2012 Net income was $183 million in 2013 compared to net income of 
$223 million in 2012. The decrease was driven by a decrease in 

noninterest income and an increase in noninterest expense, partially 

offset by a decline in the provis
ion for loan and lease losses.  
Net interest income decreased $2 million from 2012 due 
primarily to lower yields on average residential mortgage and 

automobile loans, partially offset 
by a decrease in FTP charges on 
loans and leases and increases in
 average residential mortgage and 
average automobile loans. 
The provision for loan and le
ase losses decreased $84 million 
compared to the prior year as de
linquency metrics and underlying 
loss trends improved across all consumer loan types. Net charge-

offs as a percent of average loans 
and leases decreased to 46 bps for 
2013 compared to 88 bps for 2012.  
Noninterest income decreased $128 million from 2012 
primarily due to a decrease in mortgage banking net revenue of $143 
million, partially offset by an increa
se in other noninterest income of 
$15 million. The decrease in mortgage banking net revenue was 

primarily due to a decrease in gains on loan sales of $368 million as 

a result of a decrease in profit 
margins on sold residential mortgage 
loans coupled with a decrease in residential mortgage loan 

originations, partially offset by a $223 million increase in net 

residential mortgage servicing revenue. The increase in net 
residential mortgage servicing revenue was driven by an increase of 
$202 million in net valuation adjustments on MSRs and free-

standing derivatives entered into to economically hedge the MSRs 

and a decrease of $20 million in servicing rights amortization. The 

increase in other noninterest income was primarily due to a $12 

million increase in securities gains and a $7 million decline in losses 

on the sale of OREO. 
Noninterest expense increased $15 million driven by an 
increase of $31 million in other noninterest expense, partially offset 
by a decrease of $16 million in salaries, incentives and benefits 

compared to the prior year. The increase in other noninterest 

expense was primarily due to higher litigation expense and an 

increase in corporate overhead allocations, partially offset by a 

decrease in loan and lease expens
e due to lower appraisal costs. The 
decrease in salaries, incentives and 
benefits was due to a decline in 
incentive compensation driven primar
ily by a decline in originations 
during 2013 compared to 2012, partially offset by an increase in 
deferred compensation for 2013 compared to 2012. 
Average consumer loans and leases increased $200 million 
from the prior year. Average residential mortgage loans, including 

held for sale, increased $79 million for 2013 compared to 2012 due 

to strong refinancing activity that occurred in the first half of 2013. 

Average automobile loans increased $218 million for the current 

year compared to the prior year due 
to an increase in originations 
primarily driven by modest improvement in general economic 

conditions and a continued low interest rate environment. Average 
home equity portfolio loans decreased $83 million for 2013 
compared to 2012 as payoffs exceeded new loan production. 

Average other consumer loans and 
leases decreased $14 million in 
the current year resulting from a decrease in average consumer 

leases due to run-off as the Bancorp discontinued automobile 

leasing in 2008, partially offset by an increase in average other 

consumer loans.   Comparison of 2012 with 2011 Net income was $223 million in 2012 compared to net income of 
$56 million in 2011. The increase wa
s driven by an increase in 
noninterest income and a decline in 
the provision for loan and lease 
losses, partially offset by an increase in noninterest expense and a 

decrease in net interest income. Net interest income decreased $29 

million due to lower yields on average residential mortgage and 

automobile loans, partially offset by
 increases in average residential 
mortgage and average automobile 
loans and favorable decreases in the FTP charge applied to the segment. 
Provision for loan and lease losses decreased $85 million 
compared to 2011 as delinquency met
rics and underlying loss trends 
improved across all consumer loan
 types. Net charge-offs as a 
percent of average loans and leases decreased to 88 bps for 2012 

compared to 134 bps for 2011.  
Noninterest income increased $246 million primarily due to 
increases in mortgage banking net revenue of $245 million driven by 
an increase in gains on residential mortgage loan sales of $424 

million due to an increase in profit margins on sold loans coupled 

with higher origination volumes. Th
is increase was partially offset 
by a decrease in net residential mo
rtgage servicing revenue of $178 
million, primarily driven by a decrease of $142 million in net 

valuation adjustments on MSRs and free-standing derivatives 

entered into to economically hedge the MSRs.  
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  48  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Noninterest expense increased $44 million driven by salaries, 
incentives and benefits which increased $48 million primarily as a 

result of higher mortgage loan originations. 
Average consumer loans and leases increased $1.1 billion from 
2011. Average automobile loans increased $526 million due to a 
strategic focus to increase automobile lending throughout 2011 and 

2012 through consistent and competit
ive pricing, disciplined sales 
execution, and enhanced customer
 service with our dealership 
network. Average residential mortgage loans increased $795 million 

as a result of higher origination volumes. Average home equity loans 

decreased $87 million due to continued runoff in the discontinued 

brokered home equity product. Average consumer leases decreased 
$126 million due to runoff as the Ba
ncorp discontinued this product 
in the fourth quarter of 2008. Investment Advisors 
Investment Advisors provides a full range of investment alternatives 

for individuals, companies and 
not-for-profit organizations. 
Investment Advisors is made up of four main businesses: FTS, an 
indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bancorp; ClearArc Capital, 
Inc. (formerly FTAM), an indirect
 wholly-owned subsidiary of the 
Bancorp; Fifth Third Private Bank
; and Fifth Third Institutional 
Services. FTS offers full service retail brokerage services to 

individual clients and broker dealer services to the institutional 

marketplace. ClearArc Capital, 
Inc. provides asset management 
services and previously advised the Bancorp™s proprietary family of 

mutual funds. Fifth Third Private Bank offers holistic strategies to 
affluent clients in wealth planning, investing, insurance and wealth 
protection. Fifth Third Institutional Services provides advisory 

services for institutional clients in
cluding states and municipalities. 
 The following table contains selected financial data for the Investment Advisors segment:
                TABLE 17: INVESTMENT ADVISORS
               For the years ended Decembe
r 31  ($ in millions)
   2013 
 2012 
 2011  
Income Statement Data
             Net interest income  
$  154 
 117 
 113 
Provision for loan and lease losses 
   2 
 10 
 27 
Noninterest income:       Investment advisory revenue 
   384 
 366 
 364 
    Other noninterest income 
   22 
 30 
 9 
Noninterest expense:       Salaries, incentives and benefits 
   159 
 161 
 164 
    Other noninterest expense 
   294 
 276 
 257 
Income before taxes 
   105 
 66 
 38 
Applicable income tax expense 
   37 
 23 
 14 
Net income 
$  68 
 43 
 24 
Average Balance Sheet Data
   Loans and leases 
$  2,014 
 1,877 
 2,037 
Core deposits 
   8,815 
 7,709 
 6,798 
    Comparison of 2013 with 2012 Net income was $68 million in 2013 compared to net income of $43 

million for 2012. The increase in net income was primarily due to 
increases in net interest income and noninterest income and a 
decrease in the provision for loan 
and lease losses, partially offset by 
an increase in noninterest expense.  
Net interest income increased $37 million from 2012 due to an 
increase in FTP credits resulting from an increase in interest 

checking deposits. 
Provision for loan and lease losses decreased $8 million from 
the prior year. Net charge-offs as
 a percent of average loans and 
leases decreased to 9 bps compared to 53 bps for the prior year 
reflecting improved credit trends during 2013.  
Noninterest income increased $10 million compared to 2012 
due to an increase in investment ad
visory revenue, partially offset a 
decrease in other noninterest income. The increase in investment 

advisory revenue was primarily driven by increases in securities and 

brokerage fees and private client service fees due to strong 

production and an increase in equity and bond market values. The 
decrease in other noninterest income was due to a decrease in gains 
on sales of held for sale loans and the impact of the gain on the sale 

of certain FTAM funds in the third quarter of 2012. 
Noninterest expense increased $16 million compared to 2012 
due to an increase in other noninterest expense primarily driven by 

increases in corporate allocations and fraud losses. Average loans and leases incr
eased $137 million compared to 
the prior year primarily driven by increases in average residential 
mortgage, average other consumer and average commercial and 
industrial loans, partially offset by
 a decrease in average commercial 
mortgage loans. Average core deposits increased $1.1 billion 

compared to 2012 due to growth in 
interest checking as customers 
have opted to maintain excess funds in liquid transaction accounts 
as a result of the low interest rate environment. 
 
Comparison of 2012 with 2011 
Net income increased $19 million 
compared to 2011 primarily due 
to an increase in noninterest income and a decrease in the provision 

for loan and lease losses, partially
 offset by an increase in 
noninterest expense. Net interest income increased $4 million from 
2011 due to a decrease in interest
 expense on core deposits and 
favorable decreases in the FTP ch
arge applied to the segment, 
partially offset by a decline in av
erage loan and lease balances and 
declines in yields of 27 bps on loans and leases. 
Provision for loan and lease losses decreased $17 million from 
2011. Net charge-offs as a percen
t of average loans and leases 
decreased to 53 bps compared to 132 bps for 2011 reflecting 

improved credit trends during 2012. 
Noninterest income increased $23 million compared to 2011 
primarily due to increases in other noninterest income. The increase 

in other noninterest income was primarily driven by the $13 million 

gain on the sale of certain funds previously mentioned and an 

increase in gains on the sale of loans of $5 million. 
Noninterest expense increased $16 million compared to 2011 
due to increases in other noninterest expense primarily driven by an 

increase in corporate allocations. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  49  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Average loans and leases decreased $160 million compared to 
2011. The decrease was primarily driven by declines in home equity 

loans of $55 million, commercial mortgage loans of $45 million and 

commercial and industrial loans of $30 million. Average core 

deposits increased $911 million comp
ared to 2011 due to growth in 
interest checking as customers have opted to maintain excess funds 
in liquid transaction accounts as a 
result of interest rates remaining 
near historic lows, partially offset by account migration from foreign 

office deposits.  General Corporate and Other 
General Corporate and Other includ
es the unallocated portion of 
the investment securities portfolio
, securities gains and losses, 
certain non-core deposit funding, unassigned equity, provision 
expense in excess of net charge-offs or a benefit from the reduction 

of the ALLL, representation and 
warranty expense in excess of 
actual losses or a benefit from th
e reduction of representation and 
warranty reserves, the payment of preferred stock dividends and 

certain support activities and other items not attributed to the 

business segments. 

 Comparison of 2013 with 2012 Results for 2013 and 2012 were impacted by a benefit of $269 

million and $400 million, respectively, due to reductions in the 

ALLL. The decrease in provision expense was primarily due to a 

decrease in nonperforming loans and leases and improvements in 

delinquency metrics and underlying 
loss trends. Net interest income 
decreased from $370 million in 2012 to $147 million for 2013 

primarily due to a decrease in FTP charges partially offset by a 
decrease in interest expense on long-term debt. Noninterest income 
increased $278 million compared to 
the prior year primarily due to 
positive valuation adjustments on the stock warrant associated with 

Vantiv Holding, LLC which increased $139 million in 2013 

compared to 2012. In addition, gains of $242 million and $85 

million were recognized on the sales of Vantiv, Inc. shares in the 

second and third quarters of 2013, 
respectively, compared to gains 
of $115 million related to the Vantiv, Inc. IPO and $157 million on 
the sales of Vantiv, Inc. sh
ares in 2012. The Bancorp also 
recognized a gain of $9 million associated with a tax receivable 

agreement with Vantiv, Inc. in th
e fourth quarter of 2013. The 
equity method earnings from the 
Bancorp™s interest in Vantiv 
Holding, LLC increased $16 million from 2012. Noninterest expense decreased $284 million compared to 2012 
due to decreases in other noninterest expense and total personnel 

costs. Other noninterest expense decreased due to a decrease in 
debt extinguishment costs, an increase in corporate overhead 
allocations assigned to the segments
, a decrease in loan and lease 
expense and a decrease in losses and adjustments. Debt 

extinguishment costs decreased $161 million during 2013 compared 

to the prior year. During the fourth quarter of 2013, the Bancorp 

incurred $8 million of debt extinguishment costs associated with the 

redemption of outstanding TruPS 
issued by Fifth Third Capital 
Trust IV. During 2012, the Bancorp incurred $160 million of debt 
extinguishment costs associated 
with the redemption of certain 
TruPS and the termination of certain FHLB debt. Loan and lease 

expense decreased $72 million during 2013 compared to 2012 

primarily due to a decrease in loan
 closing fees due to a decline in 
mortgage originations. Losses and adjustments decreased $17 

million compared to 2012 primarily 
driven by a decline in the 
provision for representation and warranty claims partially offset by 

an increase in litigation expense.
 The provision for representation 
and warranty claims changed from a $49 million expense for the 
year ended December 31, 2012 to a benefit of $39 million for the 

year ended December 31, 2013 due to the Bancorp recording 

significant additions to the reserve 
in 2012 as the result of additional 
information obtained from FHLMC regarding their file selection 
criteria which enabled the Bancorp to better estimate the losses that 
were probable on loans sold to FHLMC with representation and 

warranty provisions. In addition, 
2013 included a decrease in the 
representation and warranty reserve due to improving underlying 
repurchase metrics and the settlement with FHLMC. The decrease 
in representation and warranty expense was partially offset by a $54 

million increase in litigation expense. Total personnel costs 

decreased $38 million from 2012 due primarily to decreases in 

incentive compensation and employee benefits. 

 
Comparison of 2012 with 2011 
Results for 2012 and 2011 were impacted by a benefit of $400 
million and $748 million, respectively, due to reductions in the 
ALLL. The decrease in provision expense was driven by general 

improvements in credit quality and 
declines in net charge-offs. Net 
interest income increased from $321 million in 2011 to $370 million 

in 2012 due to a benefit in the FTP rate. The change in net income 

for 2012 compared to 2011 was impacted by a $157 million gain on 

the sale of Vantiv, Inc. shares and $115 million in gains on the initial 

public offering of Vantiv, Inc. In
 addition, the results for 2012 were 
impacted by dividends on preferred stock of $35 million compared 
to $203 million in 2011. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  50  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 FOURTH QUARTER REVIEW The Bancorp™s 2013 fourth quarte
r net income available to common 
shareholders was $383 million, or $0.43 per diluted share, compared 
to net income available to common sh
areholders of $421 million, or 
$0.47 per diluted share, for the 
third quarter of 2013 and net income 
available to common shareholders of $390 million, or $0.43 per 

diluted share, for the fourth qu
arter of 2012. Fourth quarter 2013 
earnings included a $91 million positive adjustment on the valuation 

of the warrant associated with the sale of Vantiv Holding, LLC, $69 

million in net charges to increase litigation reserves, an $18 million 

charge related to the valuation of 
the total return swap entered into 
as part of the 2009 sale of Visa, In
c. Class B shares and $8 million of 
debt extinguishment costs associated with the redemption of TruPS 

issued by Fifth Third Capital Trust IV. Third quarter 2013 results 

included an $85 million gain on the 
sale of Vantiv Inc. shares, $30 
million in net charges to increase litigation reserves and a $6 million 

positive adjustment on the valuation of the warrant associated with 

the sale of Vantiv Holding, LL
C. Fourth quarter 2012 earnings 
included a $157 million gain on the sale of Vantiv Inc. shares, $134 
million in debt extinguishment costs associated with the termination 
of $1.0 billion of FHLB borrowings and $38 million of mortgage 

representation and warranty provision expense primarily due to 

additional information obtained from FHLMC regarding future 

mortgage repurchase file requests. The ALLL as a percentage of 

portfolio loans and leases was 
1.79% as of December 31, 2013, 
compared to 1.92% as of September 30, 2013 and 2.16% as of 

December 31, 2012.  
Fourth quarter 2013 net interest income of $905 million 
increased $7 million from the third quarter of 2013 and $2 million 

from the same period a year ago. Interest income increased $10 

million from the third quarter of 2013 primarily driven by higher 

balances and yields on investment securities. Interest expense 

increased $3 million from the thir
d quarter of 2013 primarily driven 
by the issuance of $2.5 billion of long-term debt during the quarter, 

partially offset by the benefit from high-priced CDs that matured 
during the quarter. The increase in net interest income in 
comparison to the fourth quarte
r of 2012 was driven by higher 
average loan balances, lower long-term debt expense due to a 

reduction in higher cost averag
e long-term debt and run-off of 
higher priced CDs, partially offset by lower yields on interest-

earning assets.  
Fourth quarter 2013 noninterest income of $703 million 
decreased $18 million compared to the third quarter of 2013 and 
$177 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2012. The decrease 
from the third quarter of 2013 was 
primarily due to lower corporate 
banking revenue and other noninte
rest income. The year-over year 
decline was primarily the result of lower mortgage banking net 

revenue, corporate banking revenue and other noninterest income. 
Mortgage banking net revenue was $126 million in the fourth 
quarter of 2013, compared to $121 million in the third quarter of 

2013 and $258 million in the fourth 
quarter of 2012. Fourth quarter 
2013 originations were $2.6 billion, compared with $4.8 billion in 
the previous quarter and $7.0 billi
on in the fourth quarter of 2012. 
Fourth quarter 2013 originations resulted in gains of $60 million on 

mortgages sold, compared with gains of $74 million during the 

previous quarter and $239 million du
ring the fourth quarter of 2012. 
The decrease from the prior quarter reflected the lower production 

partially offset by increased gain on 
sale margins, while the decrease 
from the prior year reflected lower production and lower gain on 
sale margins. Mortgage servicing fees were $63 million in both the 
fourth and third quarters of 2013 
compared with $64 million in the 
fourth quarter of 2012. Mortgage banking net revenue is also 

affected by net servicing asset valuation adjustments, which include 

MSR amortization and MSR valuation adjustments, including mark-
to-market adjustments on free-standing derivatives used to 
economically hedge the MSR portfolio. These net servicing asset 
valuation adjustments were positive $2 million in the fourth quarter 
of 2013, negative $16 million in 
the third quarter of 2013 and 
negative $45 million in the fourth quarter of 2012. Net gains on 

nonqualifying hedges on MSRs were zero in the fourth quarter of 

2013, compared with net gains of $5 million in the third quarter of 

2013 and net losses of $2 million in the fourth quarter of 2012. 
Service charges on deposits of $142 million increased $2 
million from the previous quarter and $8 million compared to the 

fourth quarter of 2012. Retail servi
ce charges were flat compared to 
the previous quarter and increase
d six percent from the fourth 
quarter of 2012. The year over-year increase was primarily related to 

the transition to the Bancorp™s new and simplified deposit product 

offerings. Commercial service char
ges increased two percent from 
the previous quarter and six percen
t from a year ago primarily as a 
result of new customer accounts
 and higher treasury management 
fees.  Corporate banking revenue of $94 million decreased $8 million 
from the previous quarter and $
20 million from the fourth quarter 
of 2012. The decrease from the third quarter of 2013 was primarily 

driven by lower lease remarketing fees and syndication fees, partially 

offset by higher institutional sales revenue, foreign exchange fees 

and business lending fees. The year-
over-year decline was primarily 
driven by lower lease remarketing fees, syndication fees, derivative 

fees and letter of credit fees, which benefited the year-ago quarter 

due to higher activity in anticipa
tion of changes to tax rules. The 
decline in lease remarketing fees was driven by a $9 million write-
down of equipment value on an operating lease during the fourth 

quarter of 2013. 
Investment advisory revenue of $98 million increased $1 
million from the previous quarter and $5 million from the fourth 

quarter of 2012. The increase from the third quarter of 2013 and 

from the previous year was attributable to higher brokerage fees and 

private client services revenue reflecting strong production and 
market performance. These increases were partially offset by a 
decrease in institutional trust fees.  
Card and processing revenue of $71 million increased $2 
million compared to the third quarter of 2013 and $5 million from 

the fourth quarter of 2012. Both in
creases were driven by higher 
transaction volumes. Other noninterest income of $170 million decreased $15 
million compared to the third quarter of 2013 and $45 million from 
the fourth quarter of 2012.  Fourth quarter 2013 results included a 
$91 million positive valuation adjustment on the Vantiv Holding, 

LLC warrant as well as $9 million 
in payments received pursuant to 
Fifth Third™s tax receivable agreemen
t with Vantiv Holding, LLC. 
This compares with an $85 million g
ain on the sale of Vantiv Inc. 
shares and a $6 million positive warrant valuation adjustment in the 
third quarter of 2013, and a $157 million gain on the sale of Vantiv 

Inc. shares and a $19 million negative warrant valuation adjustment 
in the fourth quarter of 2012. Quarte
rly results also included charges 
related to the valuation of the total 
return swap entered into as part 
of the 2009 sale of Visa, Inc. Class B shares. Negative valuation 

adjustments on this swap were 
$18 million, $2 million, and $15 
million in the fourth quarter of 2013, the third quarter of 2013 and 

the fourth quarter of 2012, respectively. 
The net gain on investment securities was $2 million in the 
fourth and third quarters of 2013 and the fourth quarter of 2012.  Noninterest expense of $989 million increased $30 million 
from the previous quarter and decreased $174 million from the 

fourth quarter of 2012.
 Fourth quarter 2013 expenses included $69 
million in charges to increase litigation reserves, a $25 million 

benefit associated with the mort
gage representation and warranty 
reserve, $8 million of debt extinguishment costs associated with the 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  51  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 redemption of Fifth Third Capital Trust IV TruPS, an $8 million 
contribution to Fifth Third Foundation, and $8 million in severance 

expense. Third quarter 2013 expe
nses included $30 million in 
charges to increase litigation reserves, $5 million in severance 

expense, $5 million in large bank assessment fees and a $3 million 
benefit associated with the mort
gage representation and warranty 
reserve due to improving underlying purchase metrics. Fourth 

quarter 2012 expenses included $134 million of debt extinguishment 

costs associated with the termination of $1 billion of FHLB debt, 

$38 million of expenses associated with the mortgage representation 

and warranty reserve and $13 million in charges to increase litigation 

reserves.  
Net charge-offs were $148 million in the fourth quarter of 
2013, or 67 bps of average loans on an annualized basis, compared 

with net charge-offs of $109 milli
on in the third quarter 2013 and 
$147 million in the fourth quarte
r 2012. During the fourth quarter 
of 2013, the Bancorp restructured a single large credit resulting in a 
charge-off of $43 million. Additionally
, during the fourth quarter of 
2013, the Bancorp modified its charge-off policy for home equity 

loans and lines of credit to asse
ss for a charge-off when such loans 
have been past due 120 days if the senior lien is also 120 or more 

days past due. This resulted in additional home equity net charge-

offs of $6 million. 
 TABLE 18: QUARTERLY INFORMATION (unaudited)
                   2013 
 2012 
 For the three months ended ($ in millions, except per share data) 
12/319/30
6/30
3/31
12/31
9/30
6/30
3/31
Net interest income (FTE)  
$ 905 
898 
885 
893 
 903 
 907 
 899 
 903 
Provision for loan and lease losses 
 53 
 51 
 64 
 62 
 76 
 65 
 71 
 91 
Noninterest income  703 
 721 
 1,060 
 743 
 880 
 671 
 678 
 769 
Noninterest expense  989 
 959 
 1,035 
 978 
 1,163 
 1,006 
 937 
 973 
Net income attributable to Bancorp  
 402 
 421 
 591 
 422 
 399 
 363 
 385 
 430 
Net income available to common shareholders 
 383 
 421 
 582 
 413 
 390 
 354 
 376 
 421 
Earnings per share, basic  
 0.44 
 0.47 
 0.67 
 0.47 
 0.44 
 0.39 
 0.41 
 0.46 
Earnings per share, diluted  
 0.43 
 0.47 
 0.65 
 0.46 
 0.43 
 0.38 
 0.40 
 0.45 
                  COMPARISON OF THE YEAR ENDED 2012 WITH 2011 
The Bancorp™s net income available to common shareholders for 

the year ended December 31, 2012 was $1.5 billion, or $1.66 per 

diluted share, which was net of $35 million in preferred stock 
dividends. The Bancorp™s net 
income available to common 
shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $1.1 billion, 

or $1.18 per diluted share, which was net of $203 million in 

preferred stock dividends. The preferred stock dividends during 

2011 included $153 million in discount accretion resulting from the 

Bancorp™s repurchase of Series F preferred stock. Overall, credit 

trends improved in 2012, and as a 
result, the provision for loan and 
lease losses decreased to $303 million in 2012 compared to $423 
million in 2011.  Net interest income was $3.6 billion for the years ended 
December 31, 2012 and 2011. Net interest income was positively 

impacted in 2012 by an increase in average loans and leases of $4.6 

billion as well as a decrease in inte
rest expense compared to the year 
ended December 31, 2011. Average interest-earning assets increased 

$4.0 billion in 2012 while average interest-bearing liabilities were 

relatively flat compared to the prio
r year. In addition, net interest 
income in 2012 compared to the prio
r year was negatively impacted 
by a 28 bps decrease in average yield on average interest-earning 

assets partially offset by a 21 bps decrease in the average rate paid 

on interest bearing liabilities, couple
d with a mix shift to lower cost 
deposits. 
Noninterest income increased $544 million, or 22%, in 2012 
compared to 2011. The increase from the prior year was primarily 

due to an increase in mortgage banking net revenue, corporate 
banking revenue and other noninterest income partially offset by a 
decrease in card and processing revenue. Mortgage banking net 

revenue increased $248 million, or 41%, primarily due to an increase 

in origination fees and gains on lo
an sales partially offset by an 
increase in losses on net valuati
on adjustments on servicing rights 
and free-standing derivatives entered into to economically hedge the 

MSR portfolio. Corporate banking revenue increased $63 million, or 

18%, primarily due to increases in syndication fees, business lending 
fees, lease remarketing fees and in
stitutional sales. Other noninterest 
income increased $324 million primarily due to a $115 million gain 

from the Vantiv, Inc. IPO recognized in the first quarter of 2012 
and a $157 million gain from the sale
 of Vantiv, Inc. shares in the 
fourth quarter of 2012. Card and processing revenue decreased $55 

million, or 18%, primarily as the result of the full year impact of the 

implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act™s debit card interchange fee 
cap in the fourth quarter of 2011. 
Noninterest expense increased $323 million, or nine percent, in 
2012 compared to 2011 primarily due 
to an increase of $170 million 
in total personnel costs (salaries, wages and incentives plus 

employee benefits); an increase of $53 million in the provision for 

representation and warranty claims related to residential mortgage 

loans sold to third parties; an increase of $177 million in debt 

extinguishment costs; and a $44 million decrease in the benefit from 
the provision for unfunded commitments and letters of credit. This 
activity was partially offset by an $87 million decrease in FDIC 

insurance and other taxes. 
Net charge-offs as a percent of
 average portfolio loans and 
leases decreased to 0.85% during
 2012 compared to 1.49% during 
2011 largely due to improved credit trends across all commercial 

and consumer loan types, excluding commercial leases. 
The Bancorp took a number of ac
tions that impacted its capital 
position in 2012. On March 13, 
2012, the Bancorp announced the 
results of its capital plan submitted to the FRB as part of the 2012 

CCAR. The FRB indicated to the Bancorp that it did not object to 

the following capital actions: a continuation of its quarterly common 

dividend of $0.08 per share; the redemption of up to $1.4 billion in 

certain TruPS and the repurchase of common shares in an amount 

equal to any after-tax gains realized by the Bancorp from the sale of 

Vantiv, Inc. common shares by either the Bancorp or Vantiv, Inc. 
The FRB indicated to the Bancorp that it did object to other 
elements of its capital plan, incl
uding potential increases in its 
quarterly common dividend and the initiation of other common 

share repurchases.  
The Bancorp resubmitted its capital plan to the FRB in the 
second quarter of 2012. The resubmitted plan included capital 

actions and distributions for the covered period through March 31, 

2013 that were substantially similar to
 those included in the original 
submission, with adjustments primar
ily reflecting the change in the 
expected timing of capital action
s and distributions relative to the 
timing assumed in the original submission. On August 21, 2012, the 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  52  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Bancorp announced the FRB did not object to the Bancorp™s 
resubmitted capital plan which included potential increases to the 

quarterly common stock dividend and potential repurchases of 

common shares of up to $600 million through the first quarter of 
2013, in addition to any increment
al repurchase of common shares 
related to any after-tax gains realized by the Bancorp from the sale 

of Vantiv, Inc. common shares by either the Bancorp or Vantiv, 

Inc. As a result, the Board of Directors authorized the Bancorp to 

repurchase up to 100 million common 
shares in the open market or 
in privately negotiated transactions
. In addition, in the third quarter 
of 2012 the Bancorp declared a quarterly common dividend of $0.10 

per share, an increase of $0.02 per share from the second quarter of 
2012. On August 8, 2012, consistent with the 2012 CCAR plan, the 
Bancorp redeemed all $862.5 million of the outstanding TruPS 

issued by Fifth Third Capital Trust VI.  The Bancorp recognized a 

$9 million loss on extinguishment of these TruPS within other 

noninterest expense in the Bancor
p™s Consolidated Statements of 
Income. Additionally, on August 15, 2012, the Bancorp redeemed 

all $575 million of the outstanding TruPS issued by Fifth Third 
Capital Trust V. The Bancorp recognized a $17 million loss on 
extinguishment within other noninterest expense in the Bancorp™s 

Consolidated Statements of Income.  
Additionally, the Bancorp entered into a number of accelerated 
share repurchase transactions in 2012.  See Note 23 of the Notes to 

Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on the 

accelerated share repurchase transactions.  
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  53  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS 
Loans and Leases 
The Bancorp classifies its loans and leases based upon the primary 
purpose of the loan. Table 19 summarizes end of period loans and 
leases, including loans held for sale and Table 20 summarizes 
average total loans and leases, 
including loans held for sale.  TABLE 19: COMPONENTS OF TOTAL LOANS AND LEASES (INCLUDES HELD FOR SALE)
 As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
2013 
 2012 
 2011  
2010  
2009  
Commercial: 
                   Commercial and industrial loans 
$39,347
 36,077 
  30,828 
  27,275 
 25,687
   Commercial mortgage loans 
8,069
 9,116 
  10,214 
  10,992 
 11,936
   Commercial construction loans 
1,041 707 
  1,037 
  2,111 
 3,871
   Commercial leases 
3,626
 3,549 
  3,531 
  3,378 
 3,535
 Subtotal Œ commercial 
52,083
 49,449 
  45,610 
  43,756 
 45,029
 Consumer: 
                  Residential mortgage loans 
13,570 14,873 
  13,474 
  10,857 
 9,846
   Home equity 
9,246
 10,018 
  10,719 
  11,513 
 12,174
   Automobile loans 
11,984 11,972 
  11,827 
  10,983 
 8,995
   Credit card 
2,294
 2,097 
  1,978 
  1,896 
 1,990
   Other consumer loans and leases 
381 312 
  364 
  702 
 812
 Subtotal Œ consumer 
37,475
 39,272 
  38,362 
  35,951 
 33,817
 Total loans and leases 
$89,558
 88,721 
  83,972 
  79,707 
 78,846
 Total portfolio loans and leases (excludes loans held for sale) 
$88,614
 85,782 
  81,018 
  77,491 
 76,779
               Loans and leases, including loans 
held for sale, increased $837 
million, or one percent, from December 31, 2012. The increase in 

loans and leases from December 31, 2012 was the result of a $2.6 

billion, or five percent, increa
se in commercial loans and leases 
partially offset by a $1.8 billion, or five percent, decrease in 

consumer loans and leases. 
 The increase in commercial loans and leases from December 
31, 2012 was primarily due to an
 increase in commercial and 
industrial loans and commercial c
onstruction loans partially offset 
by a decrease in commercial mortgage loans. Commercial and 

industrial loans increased $3.3 b
illion, or nine percent, from 
December 31, 2012 and commercial construction loans increased 

$334 million, or 47%, from December 31, 2012 as a result of an 

increase in new loan origination acti
vity from an increase in demand 
due to a strengthening economy and targeted marketing efforts. 

Commercial mortgage loans decrease
d $1.0 billion, or 11%, from 
December 31, 2012 due to continued runoff as the level of new 
originations was less than the repayments on the current portfolio.  
The decrease in consumer loans and leases from December 31, 
2012 was primarily due to a decrease in residential mortgage and 

home equity loans partially offset by an increase in credit card loans. 

Residential mortgage loans decreased $1.3 billion, or nine percent, 

from December 31, 2012 primarily due to a decline in loans held for 

sale of $2.0 billion from reduced origination volumes driven by 

higher mortgage rates. This decline was partially offset by an 

increase in portfolio residentia
l mortgage loans which increased 
$663 million from December 31, 2012 due to the continued 
retention of certain shorter term residential mortgage loans 

originated through the Bancorp™s 
retail branches. Home equity loans 
decreased $772 million, or eight percent, from December 31, 2012 

as payoffs exceeded new loan production. Credit card loans 

increased $197 million, or nine percent, from December 31, 2012 

due to an increase in average ba
lances per account and the volume 
of new customer accounts.  
 TABLE 20: COMPONENTS OF AVERAGE TOTAL LOANS AND LEASES (INCLUDES HELD FOR SALE)
 For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
 2013 
 2012 
 2011  
2010  
2009  
Commercial: 
                   Commercial and industrial loans 
$37,770
 32,911 
  28,546 
  26,334 
 27,556 
   Commercial mortgage loans 
8,481
 9,686 
  10,447 
  11,585 
 12,511 
   Commercial construction loans 
793
 835 
  1,740 
  3,066 
 4,638 
   Commercial leases 
3,565
 3,502 
  3,341 
  3,343 
 3,543 
 Subtotal Œ commercial 
50,609
 46,934 
  44,074 
  44,328 
 48,248 
 Consumer: 
                   Residential mortgage loans 
14,428 13,370 
  11,318 
  9,868 
 10,886 
   Home equity 
9,554
 10,369 
  11,077 
  11,996 
 12,534 
   Automobile loans 
12,021 11,849 
  11,352 
  10,427 
 8,807 
   Credit card 
2,121 1,960 
  1,864 
  1,870 
 1,907 
   Other consumer loans and leases 
360
 340 
  529 
  743 
 1,009 
 Subtotal Œ consumer 
38,484
 37,888 
  36,140 
  34,904 
 35,143 
 Total average loans and leases 
$89,093
 84,822 
  80,214 
  79,232 
 83,391 
 Total average portfolio loans and leases (excludes loans held for sale) 
$86,950
 82,733 
  78,533 
  77,045 
 80,681 
               Average loans and leases, including held for sale, increased $4.3 
billion, or five percent, from De
cember 31, 2012. The increase from 
December 31, 2012 was comprised of an increase of $3.7 billion, or 
eight percent, in average com
mercial loans and leases and an 
increase of $596 million, or two percent, in average consumer loans 

and leases. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  54  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The increase in average co
mmercial loans and leases was 
primarily driven by an increase in
 average commercial and industrial 
loans partially offset by a decrease in average commercial mortgage 

loans. Average commercial and in
dustrial loans increased $4.9 
billion, or 15%, from December 31, 
2012 due to an increase in new 
loan origination activity from an increase in demand due to a 

strengthening economy and targeted marketing efforts. Average 

commercial mortgage loans decreased $1.2 billion, or 12%, from 

December 31, 2012 due to continued runoff as the level of new 

originations was less than the repayments on the current portfolio. 
The increase in average cons
umer loans and leases from 
December 31, 2012 was driven by an increase in average residential 
mortgage loans, average automobile
 loans, and average credit card 
loans partially offset by a decrease
 in average home equity loans. 
Average residential mortgage loans increased $1.1 billion, or eight 
percent, from December 31, 2012 due to strong refinancing activity 

during the first half of 2013 and due to the continued retention of 

certain shorter term residential mo
rtgage loans originated through 
the Bancorp™s retail branches. Aver
age automobile loans increased 
$172 million, or one percent, from December 31, 2012 due to loan 

originations exceeding runoff, partially
 offset by the impact of the 
securitization and sale of $509 m
illion of automobile loans in the 
first quarter of 2013. Average credit card loans increased $161 

million, or eight percent, from December 31, 2012 due to an 

increase in average balances per account and the volume of new 

customer accounts.   Average home equity loans decreased $815 
million, or eight percent, from December 31, 2012 as payoffs 
exceeded new loan production.  
Investment Securities 
The Bancorp uses investment securities as a means of managing 

interest rate risk, providing liqui
dity support and providing collateral 
for pledging purposes. As of December 31, 2013, total investment 

securities were $19.1 billion compared to $15.7 billion at December 

31, 2012. See Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial 

Statements for the Bancorp™s methodology for both classifying 
investment securities and managemen
t™s evaluation of securities in 
an unrealized loss position for OTTI.  
At December 31, 2013, the Bancorp™s investment portfolio 
consisted primarily of AAA-rated 
available-for-sale securities. The 
Bancorp did not hold asset-backed 
securities backed by subprime 
mortgage loans in its investment portfolio. Additionally, securities 
classified as below investment grade were immaterial as of 

December 31, 2013 and had a carrying value of $31 million as of 

December 31, 2012. 
The Bancorp™s management has evaluated the securities in an 
unrealized loss position in the available-for-sale and held-to-
maturity portfolios for OTTI. During the years ended December 
31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, the Bancor
p recognized $74 million, $58 
million and $19 million of OTTI on its available-for-sale and other 

investment securities portfolio, respectively. The Bancorp did not 

recognize any OTTI on any of its held-to-maturity investment 

securities during the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 or 2011.  
 TABLE 21: COMPONENTS OF INVESTMENT SECURITIES
                  As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
 2013 
 2012 
 2011  
2010  
2009  
Available-for-sale and other: (amortized cost basis) 
                    U.S. Treasury and government agencies 
$26 41 
   171 
  225 
 464
   U.S. Government sponsored agencies 
 1,523 1,730 
   1,782 
  1,564 
 2,143
   Obligations of states and political subdivisions 
 187 203 
   96 
  170 
 240
   Agency mortgage-backed securities 
 12,294 8,403 
   9,743 
  10,570 
 11,074
   Other bonds, notes and debentures
(a)   3,514
 3,161 
   1,792 
  1,338 
 2,541
   Other securities
(b)   865
 1,033 
   1,030 
  1,052 
 1,417
 Total available-for-sale and other securities 
$18,409 14,571 
   14,614 
  14,919 
 17,879
 Held-to-maturity: (amortized cost basis) 
                    Obligations of states and political subdivisions 
$207
 282 
   320 
  348 
 350
   Other bonds, notes and debentures 
 1 2    2 
  5  5 Total held-to-maturity 
$208
 284 
   322 
  353 
 355
 Trading: (fair value) 
                    U.S. Treasury and government agencies 
$1 1    - 
  1   -   U.S. Government sponsored agencies 
 4 6    - 
   - 
  -   Obligations of states and political subdivisions 
 13 17 
   9 
  21 
 57   Agency mortgage-backed securities 
 3 7    11 
  8  24   Other bonds, notes and debentures 
7 15 
   13 
  120 
  205
   Other securities 
 315 161 
   144 
  144 
 69 Total trading  
$343
 207 
   177 
  294 
 355
 (a) Other bonds, notes, and debentures consist 
of non-agency mortgage backed securities,
 certain other asset backed securities (pri
marily automobile and commercial loan backed securities) and corporate 
bond securities.  
(b) Other securities consist of FHLB and FRB restricted stock holdings
 that are carried at par, FHLMC and FNMA preferred stock hold
ings and certain mutual fund holdings and equity security 
holdings. 
As of December 31, 2013, available
-for-sale securities on an 
amortized cost basis increased $3.8 billion, or 26%, from December 

31, 2012 due to a increase in agen
cy mortgage-backed securities and 
other bonds, notes and debentures partially offset by an decrease in 

U.S. Government sponsored agencies. Agency mortgage-backed 
securities increased $3.9 billion, or 46%, from December 31, 2012 
due to $15.0 billion in purchases of agency mortgage-backed 

securities partially offset by $8.4 billion in sales and $2.7 billion in 

paydowns on the portfolio during the year ended December 31, 

2013. Other bonds, notes, and debentures increased $353 million, or 

11%, due to the purchase of $1.6 
billion of asset backed securities, 
collateralized loan obligations an
d collateralized mortgage backed 
securities partially offset by the sale of $1.1 billion of asset backed 

securities, collateralized loan ob
ligations and corporate bonds and 
$126 million of paydowns and TruPS that were called during the 

year ended December 31, 2013. U.S. Government sponsored 
agencies securities decreased $207 m
illion, or 12%, primarily due to 
approximately $204 million of agency debentures that were called in 

2013.  At December 31, 2013 and 2012, av
ailable-for-sale securities 
were 16% and 14% of total interest-earning assets. The estimated 

weighted-average life of the debt securities in the available-for-sale 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  55  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 portfolio was 6.7 years at December 31, 2013, compared to 3.8 years 
at December 31, 2012. In addition, at December 31, 2013, the 

available-for-sale securities portfolio had a weighted-average yield of  

3.39%, compared to 3.30% at December 31, 2012. 
Information presented in Table 22 is on a weighted-average life 
basis, anticipating future pr
epayments. Yield information is 
presented on an FTE basis and is computed using historical cost 

balances. Maturity and yield calculat
ions for the total available-for-
sale portfolio exclude equity securities that have no stated yield or 
maturity. Total net unrealized gains on the available-for-sale 
securities portfolio were $188 million at December 31, 2013, 

compared to $636 million at December 31, 2012. The decrease from 

December 31, 2012 was primarily due to an increase in interest rates 

during 2013. The fair value of inve
stment securities is impacted by 
interest rates, credit spreads, market volatility and liquidity 
conditions. The fair value of investment securities generally 

decreases when interest rates increase or when credit spreads widen.  
 TABLE 22: CHARACTERISTICS OF AVAILA
BLE-FOR-SALE AND OTHER SECURITIES
               Weighted-Average 
Weighted-Average 
 As of December 31, 2013
 ($ in millions)
 Amortized Cost 
Fair Value 
Life (in years) 
Yield 
 U.S. Treasury and government agencies:
                    Average life 1 Œ 5 years 
$25 
25 
 2.7 
 0.82 
%   Average life 5 Œ 10 years 
1 1  5.4 
 1.50 
 Total 26 
26 
 2.7 
 0.83 
 U.S. Government sponsored agencies:
    Average life 1 Œ 5 years 
1,523 
1,644 
 3.0 
 3.64 
 Total 1,523 
1,644 
 3.0 
 3.64 
 Obligations of states and political subdivisions:
(a)    Average life 1 Œ 5 years
 123 
125 
 2.7 
 2.40 
   Average life 5 Œ 10 years 
55 
57 
 6.6 
 4.00 
   Average life greater than 10 years 
9 10 
 10.9 
 3.87 
 Total 187 
192 
 4.3 
 2.95 
 Agency mortgage-backed securities:
    Average life of one year or less 
118 
121 
 0.6 
 6.03 
   Average life 1 Œ 5 years 
1,564 
1,616 
 4.3 
 4.03 
   Average life 5 Œ 10 years 
9,547 
9,480 
 7.2 
 3.47 
   Average life greater than 10 years 
1,065 
1,067 
 14.4 
 3.94 
 Total 12,294 
12,284 
 7.4 
 3.61 
 Other bonds, notes and debentures:
    Average life of one year or less 
225 
230 
 0.1 
 1.68 
   Average life 1 Œ 5 years 
1,529 
1,569 
 3.1 
 2.84 
   Average life 5 Œ 10 years 
1,188 
1,193 
 7.1 
 2.61 
   Average life greater than 10 years 
572 
590 
 15.1 
 1.92 
 Total 3,514 
3,582 
 6.2 
 2.54 
 Other securities
 865 
869 
 Total available-for-sale and other securities
 $18,409 
18,597 
 6.7 
 3.39 
%  (a) Taxable-equivalent yield adjustments included in the above tabl
e are 0.01%, 0.89%, 2.06% and 0.37% for securities with an avera
ge life of 1-5 years, 5-10 years, greater than 10 years and in 
total, respectively. 
Deposits 
The Bancorp™s deposit balances represent an important source of 
funding and revenue growth opportunity. The Bancorp continues to 

focus on core deposit growth in 
its retail and commercial franchises by improving customer satisfacti
on, building full relationships and 
offering competitive rates. Core deposits represented 71% of the 

Bancorp™s asset funding base for both of the years ended December 

31, 2013 and 2012.  TABLE 23: DEPOSITS 
                  As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
 2013 
 2012 
 2011  
2010  
2009  
Demand  
$ 32,634 
  30,023 
 27,600 
  21,413 
 19,411 
 Interest checking   25,875 
  24,477 
 20,392 
  18,560 
 19,935 
 Savings 
  17,045 
  19,879 
 21,756 
  20,903 
 17,898 
 Money market   11,644 
  6,875 
 4,989 
  5,035 
 4,431 
 Foreign office 
  1,976 
  885 
 3,250 
  3,721 
 2,454 
 Transaction deposits 
  89,174 
  82,139 
 77,987 
  69,632 
 64,129 
 Other time   3,530 
  4,015 
 4,638 
  7,728 
 12,466 
 Core deposits 
  92,704 
  86,154 
 82,625 
  77,360 
 76,595 
 Certificates - $100,000 and over 
  6,571 
  3,284 
 3,039 
  4,287 
 7,700 
 Other   - 
  79 
 46 
  1  10 
 Total deposits 
$ 99,275 
  89,517 
 85,710 
  81,648 
 84,305 
       Core deposits increased $6.6 billion, or eight percent, compared to 
December 31, 2012, driven by an incr
ease of $7.0 billion, or nine 
percent, in transaction deposits, partially offset by a decrease of 
$485 million, or 12%, in other time deposits. Total transaction 
deposits increased from December 31, 2012 due to increases in 

money market deposits, demand deposits, interest checking deposits 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  56  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 and foreign office deposits partially offset by a decrease in savings 
deposits. Money market
 deposits increased $4.8 billion, or 69%, 
from December 31, 2012 partially driven by account migration from 

savings deposits which decreased $2.8 billion, or 14%. The 
remaining increase in money market deposits was due to new 
customer accounts, an increase in
 average balance per account, and 
account migration from interest checking deposits. Demand 

deposits increased $2.6 billion, or nine percent, from December 31, 

2012 due to an increase in the average balance per account for 

consumer customers, new product offerings, and new commercial 

deposit growth. Interest checking deposits increased $1.4 billion, or 

six percent, from December 31, 2012 due to new commercial 
customer growth, partially offset by the previously mentioned 
account migration to money market deposits. Foreign office 

deposits increased $1.1 billion from December 31, 2012 due to new 
customer accounts.  The foreign office deposits are primarily 
Eurodollar sweep accounts from the Bancorp™s commercial 

customers. These accounts bear intere
st rates at slightly higher than 
money market accounts and unlike repurchase agreements the 
Bancorp does not have to pledge collateral. The decrease in other 
time deposits from December 31, 2012 was primarily the result of 

continued run-off of certificates of deposits due to the low interest 

rate environment, as customers ha
ve opted to maintain balances in 
more liquid transaction accounts. 
The Bancorp uses certificates $100,000 and over as a method 
to fund earning assets. At December 31, 2013, certificates $100,000 

and over increased $3.3 billion compared to December 31, 2012 due 
to the diversification of funding 
sources through the issuance of 
retail and institutional certificates of deposits in 2013. 
 The following table presents average deposits for the years ended December 31: 
                      TABLE 24: AVERAGE DEPOSITS
                 ($ in millions) 
2013 
 2012 
 2011  
2010  
2009  
Demand  
$ 29,925 
  27,196 
 23,389 
  19,669 
 16,862 
 Interest checking  23,582 
  23,096 
 18,707 
  18,218 
 15,070 
 Savings 
 18,440 
  21,393 
 21,652 
  19,612 
 16,875 
 Money market  9,467 
  4,903 
 5,154 
  4,808 
 4,320 
 Foreign office 
 1,501 
  1,528 
 3,490 
  3,355 
 2,108 
 Transaction deposits 
 82,915 
  78,116 
 72,392 
  65,662 
 55,235 
 Other time  3,760 
  4,306 
 6,260 
  10,526 
 14,103 
 Core deposits 
 86,675 
  82,422 
 78,652 
  76,188 
 69,338 
 Certificates - $100,000 and over 
 6,339 
  3,102 
 3,656 
  6,083 
 10,367 
 Other  17 
  27 
 7   6  157 
 Total average deposits 
$ 93,031 
  85,551 
 82,315 
  82,277 
 79,862 
       On an average basis, core deposits increased $4.3 billion, or five 
percent, compared to December 31, 201
2 due to an increase of $4.8 
billion, or six percent, in average 
transaction deposits partially offset 
by a decrease of $546 million, or 13%, in average other time 
deposits. The increase in average transaction deposits was driven by 
an increase in average money market deposits, average demand 

deposits and average interest checking deposits, partially offset by a 

decrease in average savings deposits. Average money market 

deposits increased $4.6 billion, or 93%, from December 31, 2012 

primarily due to account migration from savings deposits which 

decreased $3.0 billion, or 14%. Th
e remaining increase in average 
money market deposits is due to new customer accounts, an 
increase in average balances per 
account, and account migration 
from interest checking deposits. Average demand deposits increased 
$2.7 billion, or 10%, from December 31, 2012 due to an increase in 
average balances per account for c
onsumer customers, new product 
offerings, and new commercial deposit growth. Average interest 

checking deposits increased $486 million, or two percent from 
December 31, 2012 due to new commercial customer growth, 
partially offset by the previously
 mentioned account migration to 
money market deposits. Average other time deposits decreased $546 

million, or 13%, from December 31, 2012 primarily as a result of 

continued run-off of certificates of deposits due to the low interest 

rate environment, as customers ha
ve opted to maintain balances in 
more liquid transaction accounts. Average certificates $100,000 and 

over increased $3.2 billion from 2012 due to the diversification of 
funding sources through the issu
ance of retail and institutional 
certificates of deposits during 2013.  The contractual maturities of certifica
tes $100,000 and over as of December 31, 
2013 are summarized in the following table:
       TABLE 25: CONTRACTUAL MATURITIES OF CERTIFICATES $100,000 AND OVER
     ($ in millions)  
 2013  
Three months or less 
$ 2,922 
 After three months through six months 
  1,561 
 After six months through 12 months 
  1,032 
 After 12 months 
  1,056 
 Total 
$ 6,571 
     
 
 
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  57  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  The contractual maturities of other time deposits and certifi
cates $100,000 and over as of December 31, 2013 are summarized in 
the following table:        TABLE 26: CONTRACTUAL MATURITIES OF OTHER TIME DEPOSITS AND CERTIFICATES $100,000 AND OVER
     ($ in millions) 
 2013  
Next 12 months 
$ 7,424 
 13-24 months 
  1,200 
 25-36 months 
  702 
 37-48 months 
  488 
 49-60 months 
  232 
 After 60 months 
  55 
 Total 
$ 10,101 
   Borrowings
 Total borrowings decreased $3.0 billion, or 21%, from December 

31, 2012 due to decreases in other short-term borrowings and 
federal funds purchased, partially offs
et by an increase in long-term 
debt. Total borrowings as a percenta
ge of interest-bearing liabilities 
were 14% and 19% at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  TABLE 27: BORROWINGS
                  As of December 31 ($ in millions)
  2013  
2012 
 2011  
2010  
2009  
Federal funds purchased 
$ 284 
  901 
   346 
   279 
  182 
 Other short-term borrowings 
 1,380 
  6,280 
   3,239 
   1,574 
  1,415 
 Long-term debt 
 9,633 
  7,085 
   9,682 
   9,558 
  10,507 
 Total borrowings 
$ 11,297 
  14,266 
   13,267 
   11,411 
  12,104 
           Federal funds purchased decreased by $617 million, or 68%, from 
December 31, 2012 driven by a decrease in excess balances in 

reserve accounts held at Federal Reserve Banks that the Bancorp 

purchased from other member bank
s on an overnight basis. Other 
short-term borrowings decrease
d $4.9 billion, or 78%, from 
December 31, 2012 driven by a decrease of $4.7 billion in short-

term FHLB borrowings. The Bancorp decreased its reliance on 
short-term funding in 2013 in anti
cipation of future regulatory 
standards which require a greater dependency on long-term and 

stable funding. Long-term debt increased by $2.5 billion, or 36%, 
from December 31, 2012 primarily driven by the issuance of $3.1 
billion of unsecured senior bank notes, $750 million of subordinated 
notes and the issuance of asset-back
ed securities by a consolidated 
VIE of $1.3 billion related to an automobile loan securitization 

during 2013. These issuances were partially offset by the maturity of 

$1.3 billion of senior notes, the redemption of $750 million of 

outstanding TruPS and $277 million of declines due to fair value 
adjustments on hedged debt. For additional information regarding 
long-term debt, see Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial 

Statements.  TABLE 28: AVERAGE BORROWINGS
                  As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
 2013 
 2012 
 2011  
2010  
 2009  
 Federal funds purchased 
$ 503 
  560 
  345 
   291 
  517 
 Other short-term borrowings 
  3,024 
  4,246 
  2,777 
   1,635 
  6,463 
 Long-term debt 
  7,914 
  9,043 
  10,154 
   10,902 
  11,035 
 Total average borrowings 
$ 11,441 
  13,849 
  13,276 
   12,828 
  18,015 
  Average total borrowings decreased $2.4 billion, or 17%, compared 
to December 31, 2012, due to decreases in average federal funds 

purchased, average other short-term borrowings and average long-

term debt. Average federal funds purchased decreased $57 million, 

or 10%, primarily due to a decrease in excess balances in reserve 

accounts held at Federal Reserve 
Banks that the Bancorp purchased 
from other member banks on an overnight basis. Average other 

short-term borrowings decreased $1.2 billion, or 29%, primarily due 
to the previously mentioned decrease in short-term FHLB 
borrowings. The level of average federal funds purchased and 

average other short-term borrowings can fluctuate significantly from 

period to period depending on funding needs and which sources are 

used to satisfy those needs. Additionally, The Bancorp decreased its 

reliance on short-term funding in 2013 in anticipation of future 

regulatory standards which require a greater dependency on long-

term and stable funding. Average long-term debt decreased $1.1 
billion, or 12%, driven by the maturity of $1.3 billion of unsecured 
senior bank notes in the second quarter of 2013, the redemption of 

$1.4 billion of TruPS during the third quarter of 2012 and the 

extinguishment of $1.0 billion of long-term FHLB advances during  
 the fourth quarter of 2012 partially offset by the issuance of $1.3 

billion of unsecured senior bank notes in the first quarter of 2013 

and the issuance of $1.8 billion of
 unsecured senior bank notes and 
$750 million of subordinated notes in the fourth quarter of 2013.  
Information on the average rates paid on borrowings is 
discussed in the net interest income section of the MD&A. In 

addition, refer to the Liquidit
y Risk Management section for a 
discussion on the role of borrowi
ngs in the Bancorp™s liquidity 
management. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  58  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 RISK MANAGEMENT Managing risk is an essential com
ponent of successfully operating a 
financial services company. The Bancorp™s risk management 

approach includes processes for 
identifying, assessing, managing, 
monitoring and reporting risks. The ERM division and the Bancorp 
Credit division, led by the Bancorp™s Chief Risk and Credit Officer, 

ensure the consistency and adequacy of the Bancorp™s risk 

management approach within the st
ructure of the Bancorp™s affiliate 
operating model. In addition, th
e Internal Audit division provides 
an independent assessment of the Bancorp™s internal control 

structure and related systems and processes. 
The assumption of risk requir
es robust and active risk 
management practices that comprise an integrated and 
comprehensive set of activities, measu
res and strategies that apply to 
the entire organization. The Bancorp has established a Risk Appetite 
Framework that provides the founda
tions of corporate risk capacity, 
risk appetite and risk tolerances
. The Bancorp™s risk capacity is 
represented by its available financial resources. Risk capacity sets an 

absolute limit on risk-assumption 
in the Bancorp™s annual and 
strategic plans. The Bancorp understands that not all financial 
resources may persist as viable loss buffers over time. Further, 
consideration must be given to planned or foreseeable events that 

would reduce risk capacity. Those fa
ctors take the form of capacity 
adjustments to arrive at an Operating Risk Capacity which 

represents the operating risk level the Bancorp can assume while 

maintaining its solvency standard. The Bancorp™s policy currently 

discounts its Operating Risk Capaci
ty by a minimum of five percent 
to provide a buffer; as a result, the 
Bancorp™s risk appetite is limited 
by policy to, at most, 95% of its Operating Risk Capacity. 
Economic capital is the amount of unencumbered financial 
resources required to support the Bancorp™s risks. The Bancorp 

measures economic capital under the 
assumption that it expects to 
maintain debt ratings at strong investment grade levels over time. 

The Bancorp™s capital policies require that the Operating Risk 

Capacity less the aforementioned buffer exceed the calculated 

economic capital required in its business. 
Risk appetite is the aggregate amount of risk the Bancorp is 
willing to accept in pursuit of its strategic and financial objectives. 

By establishing boundaries arou
nd risk taking and business 
decisions, and by incorporating the needs and goals of its 

shareholders, regulators, rating agencies and customers, the 

Bancorp™s risk appetite is aligned with its priorities and goals. Risk 

tolerance is the maximum amount of risk applicable to each of the 

eight specific risk categories in
cluded in its Enterprise Risk 
Management Framework. This is ex
pressed primarily in qualitative 
terms. The Bancorp™s risk appetite and risk tolerances are supported 

by risk targets and risk limits. Those limits are used to monitor the 

amount of risk assumed at a granular level. 
The risks faced by the Bancorp include, but are not limited to, 
credit, market, liquidity, operation
al, regulatory compliance, legal, 
reputational and strategic. Each of these risks is managed through 

the Bancorp™s risk program which includes the following key 
functions:    Ł   Enterprise Risk Management Programs is responsible for 
developing and overseeing the implementation of risk 

programs and reporting that facilitate a broad integrated 
view of risk. The department also leads the continual 
fostering of a strong risk management culture and the 

framework, policies and committees that support effective 
risk governance, including the oversight of Sarbanes-Oxley 
compliance;   Ł   Commercial Credit Risk Management provides safety and 
soundness within an independent portfolio management 
framework that supports the Bancorp™s commercial loan 
growth strategies and underw
riting practices, ensuring 
portfolio optimization and appropriate risk controls; 
 Ł Risk Strategies and Reporting is responsible for 
quantitative analysis needed to support the commercial 

dual rating methodology, ALLL methodology and analytics 

needed to assess credit risk and develop mitigation 

strategies related to that risk. The department also provides 

oversight, reporting and monitoring of commercial 

underwriting and credit admini
stration processes. The Risk 
Strategies and Reporting department is also responsible for 
the economic capital program; 
 Ł Consumer Credit Risk Management provides safety and 
soundness within an independent management framework 

that supports the Bancorp™s consumer loan growth 

strategies, ensuring portfolio 
optimization, appropriate risk 
controls and oversight, reporting, and monitoring of 

underwriting and credit administration processes; 
 Ł Operational Risk Management works with affiliates and 
lines of business to maintain processes to monitor and 
manage all aspects of operati
onal risk, including ensuring 
consistency in application of operational risk programs; 
 Ł Bank Protection oversees and manages fraud prevention 
and detection and provides investigative and recovery 

services for the Bancorp; 
 Ł Capital Markets Risk Management is responsible for 
instituting, monitoring, and reporting appropriate trading 
limits, monitoring liquidity, interest rate risk and risk 
tolerances within Treasury, 
Mortgage, and Capital Markets groups and utilizing a value at risk model for Bancorp 

market risk exposure;  Ł Regulatory Compliance Risk Management ensures that 
processes are in place to monitor and comply with federal 

and state banking regulations, including processes related 

to fiduciary, community reinvestment act and fair lending 
compliance. The function also has the responsibility for 
maintenance of an enterprise-wide compliance framework; 

and  Ł The ERM division creates and maintains other functions, 
committees or processes as are necessary to effectively 

manage risk throughout the Bancorp. 
 
Risk management oversight and governance is provided by the 
Risk and Compliance Committee of 
the Board of Directors and 
through multiple management committees whose membership 

includes a broad cross-section of
 line-of-business, affiliate and 
support representatives. The Risk and Compliance Committee of 

the Board of Directors consists of five outside directors and has the 

responsibility for the oversight of ri
sk management for the Bancorp, 
as well as for the Bancorp™s overall aggregate risk profile. The Risk 

and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors has approved 
the formation of key management governance committees that are 
responsible for evaluating risks and controls. The primary 

committee responsible for the oversight of risk management is the 

ERMC. Committees accountable to the ERMC, which support the 

core risk programs, are the Corporate Credit Committee, the 

Operational Risk Committee,
 the Management Compliance 
Committee, the Asset/Liability 
Committee and the Enterprise 
Marketing Committee. Other commi
ttees accountable to the ERMC 
oversee the ALLL, capital and community reinvestment act/fair 
lending functions. There are also new products and initiatives 

processes applicable to every line of business to ensure an 

appropriate standard readiness assessment is performed before 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  59  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 launching a new product or initiative. Significant risk policies 
approved by the management governance committees are also 

reviewed and approved by the Risk and Compliance Committee of 

the Board of Directors. 
Credit Risk Review is an independent function responsible for 
evaluating the sufficiency of un
derwriting, documentation and approval processes for consumer and commercial credits, the 
accuracy of risk grades assigned
 to commercial credit exposure, 
nonaccrual status, specific reserves and monitoring for charge-offs. 

Credit Risk Review reports dir
ectly to the Risk and Compliance 
Committee of the Board of Directors and administratively to the 
Chief Auditor. 
CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT 
The objective of the Bancorp™s credit
 risk management strategy is to 
quantify and manage credit risk on an aggregate portfolio basis, as 
well as to limit the risk of loss resulting from the failure of a 

borrower or counterparty to hono
r its financial or contractual 
obligations to the Bancorp. The Bancorp's credit risk management 

strategy is based on three core principles: conservatism, 

diversification and monitoring. The Bancorp believes that effective 

credit risk management begins with conservative lending practices. 

These practices include conserva
tive exposure and counterparty 
limits and conservative underwri
ting, documentation and collection standards. The Bancorp's credit risk management strategy also 

emphasizes diversification on a geog
raphic, industry and customer 
level as well as ongoing portfolio monitoring and timely 

management reviews of large credit exposures and credits 

experiencing deterioration of credit
 quality. Credit officers with the 
authority to extend credit are de
legated specific authority amounts, 
the utilization of which is closely m
onitored. Underwriting activities 
are centrally managed, and ERM manages the policy and the 
authority delegation process directly. The Credit Risk Review 

function provides objective a
ssessments of the quality of 
underwriting and documentation, th
e accuracy of risk grades and 
the charge-off, nonaccrual and reserve analysis process. The 

Bancorp™s credit review process and overall assessment of the 

adequacy of the allowance for credit losses is based on quarterly 
assessments of the probable estimated losses inherent in the loan 
and lease portfolio. The Bancorp uses these assessments to 

promptly identify potential problem loans or leases within the 

portfolio, maintain an adequate reserve and take any necessary 

charge-offs.  The Bancorp defines potential problem loans as those 

rated substandard that do not meet the definition of a 

nonperforming asset or a restructured loan.  See Note 6 of the 

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further 
information on the Bancorp™s credit grade categories, which are 
derived from standard regulatory rating definitions.   
 The following tables provide a summary of potential problem loans as of December 31:              TABLE 29: POTENTIAL PROBLEM LOANS
                   Unpaid  
       Carrying 
  Principal  
    2013 ($ in millions)
  Value   Balance  
 Exposure 
Commercial and industrial  $ 1,032 
   1,034 
   1,323 
Commercial mortgage
   517 
   520 
   520 
Commercial construction
   44 
   44 
   50 
Commercial leases 
   18 
   18 
   18 
Total 
 $ 1,611 
   1,616 
   1,911 
       TABLE 30: POTENTIAL PROBLEM LOANS
                   Unpaid  
       Carrying 
  Principal  
    2012 ($ in millions) 
 Value    Balance  
 Exposure 
Commercial and industrial  $ 1,015 
   1,017 
   1,212 
Commercial mortgage 
  848 
   849 
   851 
Commercial construction 
  87 
   87 
   100 
Commercial leases  
  9 
   9 
   9 
Total  
$ 1,959 
   1,962 
   2,172 
             In addition to the individual review of larger commercial loans that 
exhibit probable or observed credit weaknesses, the commercial 

credit review process includes the use of two risk grading systems. 

The risk grading system currently utilized for reserve analysis 

purposes encompasses ten categories. The Bancorp also maintains a 

dual risk rating system for credit approval and pricing, portfolio 

monitoring and capital allocation th
at includes a ﬁthrough-the-cycleﬂ rating philosophy for modeling expected losses. The dual risk rating 
system includes thirteen probabilitie
s of default grade categories and 
an additional six grade categories for estimating losses given an 

event of default. The probability of default and loss given default 

evaluations are not separated in the 
ten-category risk rating system. 
The Bancorp has completed significant validation and testing of the 

dual risk rating system as a commercial credit risk management tool. 

The Bancorp is assessing the nece
ssary modifications to the dual 
risk rating system outputs to develop a U.S. GAAP compliant 
ALLL model and will make a decision on the use of modified dual 

risk ratings for purposes of determining the Bancorp™s ALLL once 

the FASB has issued a final standard regarding proposed 

methodology changes to the determination of credit impairment as 

outlined in the FASB™s proposed Accounting Standard UpdateŠ

Financial InstrumentsŒCredit Losses
 (Subtopic 825-15) issued on 
December 20, 2012. Scoring systems, various analytical tools and 
portfolio performance monitoring are used to assess the credit risk 

in the Bancorp™s homogenous consumer and small business loan 
portfolios. 
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  60  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Overview 
The economy grew slightly during 2013. Domestic economic risks 

remain elevated as several weak economic factors persist (including 

continued high unemployment, slu
ggish economic growth, weak job 
creation), and could be further compounded by an extended 
European recession. Other global i
ssues include slower growth in 
China and persistent fears regarding the Middle East. Housing 

prices have largely stabilized and ar
e increasing in many markets, but 
overall current economic conditions are causing weaker than 

desirable qualified loan demand and a relatively low interest rate 

environment, which directly impacts the Bancorp™s growth and 

profitability. Geographically, the Ba
ncorp continues to experience 
the most stress in Michigan and Fl
orida due to previous declines in 
real estate values. Real estate value deterioration, as measured by the 

Home Price Index, was most prevalent in Florida due to past real 

estate price appreciation and related over-development, and in 

Michigan due in part to cutbacks
 in automobile manufacturing and 
the state™s economic downturn. 
Among consumer portfolios, residential mortgage and 
brokered home equity portfolios exhibited the most stress. 
Management suspended homebuilder 
and developer lending in 2007 
and new commercial non-owner occupied real estate lending in 

2008, discontinued the origination of brokered home equity 

products at the end of 2007 and tightened underwriting standards 

across both the commercial and consumer loan product offerings. 

As of December 31, 2013, consumer 
real estate loans originated 
from 2005 through 2008 represent approximately 30% of the 

consumer real estate portfolio and approximately 68% of total 
losses in 2013. Loss rates continue to improve as newer vintages are 
performing within expectations. With the stabilization of certain real 

estate markets, the Bancorp began to selectively originate new 

homebuilder and developer le
nding and non-owner occupied commercial lending real estate in
 the third quarter of 2011. 
However, the level of new fundings are below the amortization and 

pay-off of the current portfolio.
 Since the fourth quarter of 2008, in 
an effort to reduce loan exposure to
 the real estate and construction 
industries, the Bancorp has sold certain consumer loans and sold or 
transferred to held for sale cer
tain commercial loans. The Bancorp 
continues to aggressively engage in other loss mitigation strategies 

such as reducing credit commitments, restructuring certain 

commercial and consumer loans, as
 well as utilizing commercial and 
consumer loan workout teams. 
For commercial and consumer loans 
owned by the Bancorp, loan modification strategies are developed 

that are workable for both the borrower and the Bancorp when the 
borrower displays a willingness to cooperate. These strategies 
typically involve either a reduction of the stated interest rate of the 

loan, an extension of the loan™s maturity date(s) with a stated rate 

lower than the current market rate 
for a new loan with similar risk, 
or in limited circumstances, a reduction of the principal balance of 

the loan or the loan™s accrued interest. For residential mortgage 

loans serviced for FHLMC and FNMA, the Bancorp participates in 

the HAMP and HARP 2.0 programs. For loans refinanced under 
the HARP 2.0 program, the Bancorp strictly adheres to the 
underwriting requirements of the program and promptly sells the 

refinanced loan back to the agen
cies. Loan restructuring under the 
HAMP program is performed on behalf of FHLMC or FNMA and 

the Bancorp does not take possession of these loans during the 

modification process. Therefore, participation in these programs 

does not significantly impact the Bancorp™s credit quality statistics. 

The Bancorp participates in trial 
modifications in conjunction with 
the HAMP program for loans it services for FHLMC and FNMA. 
As these trial modifications relate to
 loans serviced for others, they 
are not included in the Bancorp™s troubled debt restructurings as 

they are not assets of the Bancorp. In the event there is a 

representation and warranty violation on loans sold through the 
programs, the Bancorp may be required to repurchase the sold loan. 
As of December 31, 2013, repurchased loans restructured or 

refinanced under these programs 
were immaterial to the Bancorp™s 
Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, as of December 
31, 2013 and 2012, $111 million and $475 million, respectively, of 
loans refinanced under HARP 2.0 were included in loans held for 

sale in the Bancorp™s Consolidated Balance Sheets. For the years 

ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Bancorp recognized $97 

million and $218 million, respectively, of noninterest income in 

mortgage banking net revenue in the Bancorp™s Consolidated 

Statements of Income related to the sale of loans restructured or 

refinanced under the HAMP and HARP 2.0 programs. 
In the financial services industry, there has been heightened 
focus on foreclosure activity and processes. The Bancorp actively 

works with borrowers experiencing
 difficulties and has regularly 
modified or provided forbearance to borrowers where a workable 

solution could be found. Forecl
osure is a last resort, and the 
Bancorp undertakes foreclosures only when it believes they are 

necessary and appropriate and is careful to ensure that customer and 

loan data are accurate.  During the fourth quarter of 2013, the Bancorp settled certain 
repurchase claims related to mortgage loans originated and sold to 

FHLMC prior to January 1, 2009 for $25 million, after paid claim 

credits and other adjustments. The settlement removes the 

Bancorp™s responsibility to repurchase or indemnify FHLMC for 
representation and warranty violations on any loan sold prior to 

January 1, 2009 except in limited circumstances.  

 Commercial Portfolio  
The Bancorp™s credit risk managemen
t strategy includes minimizing 
concentrations of risk through 
diversification. The Bancorp has 
commercial loan concentration limit
s based on industry, lines of 
business within the commercial segment, geography and credit 

product type. 
The risk within the commercial 
loan and lease portfolio is 
managed and monitored through an underwriting process utilizing 
detailed origination policies, continuous loan level reviews, 
monitoring of industry concentration and product type limits and 

continuous portfolio risk management reporting. The origination 

policies for commercial real estate outline the risks and underwriting 

requirements for owner and non-owner occupied and construction 

lending. Included in the policies are maturity and amortization 

terms, maximum LTVs, minimum de
bt service coverage ratios, 
construction loan monitoring procedures, appraisal requirements, 
pre-leasing requirements (as app
licable) and sensitivity and pro-
forma analysis requirements. The Bancorp requires a valuation of 

real estate collateral, which may 
include third-party appraisals, be 
performed at the time of origination and renewal in accordance with 

regulatory requirements and on an as needed basis when market 

conditions justify. Although the 
Bancorp does not back test these 
collateral value assumptions, the Bancorp maintains an appraisal 

review department to order and review third-party appraisals in 
accordance with regulatory requirements. Collateral values on 
criticized assets with relationships exceeding $1 million are reviewed 

quarterly to assess the appropriateness of the value ascribed in the 

assessment of charge-offs and specific reserves. In addition, the 

Bancorp applies incremental valuation adjustments to older 

appraisals that relate to collat
eral dependent loans, which can 
currently be up to 20-30% of the appraised value based on the type 

of collateral. These incremental valuation adjustments generally 
reflect the age of the most recent a
ppraisal as well as collateral type. 
Trends in collateral values, such 
as home price indices and recent 
asset dispositions, are monitored in order to determine whether 

changes to the appraisal adjustments are warranted. Other factors 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  61  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 such as local market conditions or location may also be considered 
as necessary. 
The Bancorp assesses all real estate and non-real estate 
collateral securing a loan and cons
iders all cross collateralized loans 
in the calculation of the LTV rati
o. The following table provides 
detail on the most recent LTV ratios for commercial mortgage loans 
greater than $1 million, excluding impaired commercial mortgage 

loans individually evaluated. The Bancorp does not typically 

aggregate the LTV ratios for commercial mortgage loans less than 

$1 million.  TABLE 31: COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE LOANS OUTSTANDING BY LTV, LOANS GREATER THAN $1 MILLION
 As of December 31, 2013 ($ in millions) 
  LTV > 100% 
LTV 80-100%
LTV  80% 
Commercial mortgage owner occupied loans 
$240 
  345 
  2,152 
  Commercial mortgage non-owner occupied loans 
274 
  353 
  1,798 
  Total  
$514 
  698 
  3,950 
   TABLE 32: COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE LOANS OUTSTANDING BY LTV, LOANS GREATER THAN $1 MILLION
 As of December 31, 2012
 ($ in millions)
   LTV > 100% 
LTV 80-100%
LTV  80% 
Commercial mortgage owner occupied loans 
$390 
  302 
  2,325 
  Commercial mortgage non-owner occupied loans 
450 
  605 
  1,955 
  Total  
$840 
  907 
  4,280 
   MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  62  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following table provides detail on commerc
ial loan and leases by industry classifi
cation (as defined by the North American 
IndustryClassification System), by loan size and by
 state, illustrating the diversity and gr
anularity of the Bancorp™s commercial loans and leases:                                  TABLE 33: COMMERCIAL LOAN AND LEASE PORTFOLIO (EXCLUDING LOANS HELD FOR SALE)
                 2013 
  2012  
As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
  Outstanding
  Exposure 
Nonaccrual 
 Outstanding 
  Exposure 
Nonaccrual 
By industry: 
                           Manufacturing 
$ 10,299 
    19,955 
  55 
 $ 9,982 
     18,414 
  58 
   Financial services and insurance 
   5,998 
    14,010 
  25 
  4,886 
     12,062 
  54 
   Real estate 
   5,027 
    7,302 
  70 
   5,588 
     6,840 
  198 
   Business services 
   4,910 
    7,411 
  55 
  4,600 
     6,917 
  56 
   Wholesale trade 
   4,407 
    8,406 
  35 
  4,042 
     7,401 
  26 
   Healthcare 
   4,038 
    6,220 
  26 
  4,079 
     6,094 
  14 
   Retail trade 
   3,301 
    6,673 
  18 
  2,624 
     5,699 
  38 
   Transportation and warehousing 
   3,134 
    4,416 
  1 
  3,105 
     4,222 
  3 
   Construction 
   1,865 
    3,196 
  36 
  1,995 
     3,254 
  105 
   Communication and information 
   1,801 
    3,295 
  2 
  1,547 
     2,631 
  19 
   Accommodation and food 
   1,668 
    2,556 
  12 
  1,478 
     2,160 
  17 
   Mining 
   1,580 
    3,206 
  55 
 1,683 
     2,767 
  - 
   Entertainment and recreation    1,149 
    1,955 
  12 
  914 
     1,393 
  11 
   Other services 
   1,013 
    1,362 
  24 
  1,156 
     1,517 
  42 
   Utilities 
   773 
    2,332 
  - 
 608 
     2,009 
  - 
   Public administration  
   541 
    734 
  - 
  441 
     693 
  - 
   Agribusiness 
   356 
    504 
  26 
  376 
     527 
  44 
   Individuals 
   174 
    218 
  6 
  281 
     335 
  12 
   Other    12 
    12 
  - 
  3 
     2 
  - 
 Total 
$ 52,046 
    93,763 
  458 
 $ 49,388 
     84,937 
  697 
 By loan size: 
                           Less than $200,000 
   1 
%   1 
  8 
  2 
%    1 
  9 
   $200,000 to $1 million 
   5 
    4 
  18 
  6 
     5 
  22 
   $1 million to $5 million 
   13 
    10 
  23 
  15 
     12 
  28 
   $5 million to $10 million 
   10 
    8 
  10 
  11 
     9 
  13 
   $10 million to $25 million 
   27 
    23 
  34 
  27 
     25 
  24 
   Greater than $25 million 
   44 
    54 
  7 
  39 
     48 
  4 
 Total 
   100 
%   100 
  100 
  100 
%    100 
  100 
 By state: 
                           Ohio    19 
%   22 
  16 
  20 
%    24 
  13 
   Michigan 
   10 
    8 
  11 
  11 
     10 
  17 
   Illinois 
   7 
    7 
  8 
  8 
     8 
  8 
   Florida 
   7 
    6 
  19 
  7 
     6 
  19 
   Indiana 
   5 
    5 
  9 
  5 
     5 
  11 
   Kentucky 
   3 
    3 
  2 
  4 
     3 
  4 
   North Carolina 
   3 
    3 
  1 
  3 
     3 
  2 
   Tennessee    3 
    3 
  1 
  3 
     3 
  5 
   Pennsylvania 
   3 
    3 
  7 
  3 
     2 
  1 
   All other states 
   40 
    40 
  26 
  36 
     36 
  20 
 Total 
   100 
%   100 
  100 
  100 
%    100 
  100 
                              The Bancorp has identified certain categories of loans which it 
believes represent a higher level of risk compared to the rest of the 
Bancorp™s loan portfolio, due to economic or market conditions 
within the Bancorp™s key lending areas.  
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  63  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following table provides analysis of each of the categories
 of loans (excluding loans held for sale) by state as of Decembe
r 31, 2013 and 2012:
      TABLE 34: NON-OWNER OCCUPIED COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE
(a)
             ($ in millions)
           For the Year Ended 
December 31, 2013
   90 Days 
Net Charge-offs 
By State: 
Outstanding 
Exposure 
Past Due 
Nonaccrual 
Ohio $1,086 
  1,377   - 
   14 
   12 
Michigan
  851 
  925
   - 
   17 
   5 
Florida
  508 
  629
   - 
   7 
   3 
Illinois
  353 
  593
   - 
   6 
   4 
North Carolina
  248 
  428
   - 
   2 
   1 
Indiana  161   253
   - 
   4 
   1 
All other states
  1,270 
  2,173
   - 
   7 
   1 
Total $4,477 
  6,378
   - 
   57 
   27 
(a) Included in commercial mortgage and commercial cons
truction loans on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
 TABLE 35: NON-OWNER OCCUPIED COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE
(a)
             ($ in millions)
           For the Year Ended  
December 31, 2012
   90 Days 
Net Charge-offs  
(Recoveries) 
By State: 
 Outstanding 
Exposure 
Past Due 
Nonaccrual 
Ohio $ 1,236 
 1,351
 - 
 39 
 19 
Michigan 
  1,098 
 1,123
 - 
 49 
 32 
Florida 
  596 
 632
 - 
 42 
 20 
Illinois 
  430 
 481
 - 
 21 
 11 
North Carolina 
  205 
 228
 - 
 12 
 6 
Indiana 
  283 
 303
 - 
 14 
 2 
All other states 
  972 
 1,250
 - 
 33 
 (3)
Total 
$ 4,820 
 5,368
   - 
 210 
 87 
(a) Included in commercial mortgage and commercial cons
truction loans on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
 TABLE 36: HOMEBUILDER AND DEVELOPER
(a)
              ($ in millions)
           For the Year Ended 
December 31, 2013
   90 Days 
Net Charge-offs  
(Recoveries) 
By State: 
 Outstanding 
Exposure 
Past Due 
Nonaccrual 
Ohio $ 106 
   173
   - 
 7 
   - 
Michigan
   33 
   40
   - 
 4 
   (2)
North Carolina
   18 
   25
   - 
 - 
   - 
Indiana   10 
   11
   - 
 2 
   1 
Illinois
   5 
   8   - 
 2 
   4 
Florida
   3 
   14
   - 
 - 
   - 
All other states
   19 
   73
   - 
 1 
   1 
Total $ 194 
   344
   - 
   16 
   4 
(a) Homebuilder and Developer loans, exclusive 
of commercial and industrial loans with an outstanding balance of $51 and a total ex
posure of $135 are also included in Table 34: Non-Owner 
Occupied Commercial Real Estate.
  TABLE 37: HOMEBUILDER AND DEVELOPER
(a)
              ($ in millions)
           For the Year Ended 
December 31, 2012
   90 Days 
Net Charge-offs 
By State: 
 Outstanding 
Exposure 
Past Due 
Nonaccrual 
Ohio $ 133 
 199
 - 
 11 
 7 
Michigan 
  52 
 60
 - 
 6 
 7 
North Carolina 
  24 
 34
 - 
 4 
 1 
Indiana 
  18 
 21
 - 
 8 
 - 
Illinois 
  28 
 31
 - 
 8 
 3 
Florida 
  32 
 59
 - 
 3 
 10 
All other states 
  31 
 35
 - 
 2 
 - 
Total 
$ 318 
 439
 - 
 42 
 28 
(a) Homebuilder and Developer loans, exclusive 
of commercial and industrial loans with an outstanding balance of $73 and a total ex
posure of $132 are also included in Table 35: Non-Owner 
Occupied Commercial Real Estate.
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  64  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Consumer Portfolio
 The Bancorp™s consumer portfolio 
is materially comprised of three 
categories of loans: residential mortgage, home equity, and 

automobile. The Bancorp has identi
fied certain categories within 
these loan types which it believes represent a higher level of risk 
compared to the rest of the consumer loan portfolio due to high 

loan amount to collateral value.  
The Bancorp does not update LTV 
ratios for the consumer portfolio subsequent to origination except 

as part of the charge-off process 
for real estate secured loans.    Residential Mortgage Portfolio The Bancorp manages credit risk in the residential mortgage 

portfolio through conservative underwriting and documentation 

standards and geographic and product diversification. The Bancorp 
may also package and sell loans in the portfolio. 
The Bancorp does not originate mortgage loans that permit 
customers to defer principal payments or make payments that are 
less than the accruing interest. The Bancorp originates both fixed 
and adjustable rate residential mortgage loans. Resets of rates on 

adjustable rate mortgages are not expected to have a material impact 

on credit costs in the current interest rate environment, as 
approximately $975 million of adjustable rate residential mortgage 
loans will have rate resets during 
the next twelve months, with less 
than one percent of those resets expected to experience an increase 

in monthly payments in comparison to the monthly payment at the 

time of origination.  
Certain residential mortgage products have contractual features 
that may increase credit exposure to the Bancorp in the event of a 

decline in housing values. These types of mortgage products offered 
by the Bancorp include loans with 
high LTV ratios, multiple loans 
on the same collateral that when comb
ined result in an LTV greater 
than 80% and interest-only loans. The Bancorp monitors residential 

mortgage loans with greater than
 80% LTV ratios and no mortgage 
insurance as it believes these loans 
represent a higher level of risk. 
  The following table provides an analysis of the residential mo
rtgage portfolio loans outstanding by LTV at origination: 
                         TABLE 38: RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PORT
FOLIO LOANS BY LTV AT ORIGINATION
    2013 
     2012  
       Weighted 
Average LTV 
        Weighted 
Average LTV
 As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
 Outstanding 
     Outstanding  
LTV  80% 
$ 9,507 
   65.2 
%   $  8,993 
  65.8 
%LTV > 80%, with mortgage insurance 
  1,242 
   93.7 
       1,165 
  93.6 
 LTV > 80%, no mortgage insurance 
  1,931 
   95.9 
       1,859 
  95.6 
 Total  
$ 12,680 
   72.7 
%   $  12,017 
  73.1 
% The following tables provide analysis of the residential mortgage
 portfolio loans outstanding with a greater than 80% LTV rat
io and no mortgage 
insurance:         TABLE 39: RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PORTFOLIO LOANS, LTV GREATER THAN 80%, NO MORTGAGE INSURANCE
As of December 31, 2013 ($ in millions) 
          For the Year Ended 
December 31, 2013 
   90 Days 
Net Charge-offs 
By State: 
 Outstanding
Past Due 
Nonaccrual 
Ohio  $ 583
 3 
 20 
 10 
Michigan
   305
 2 
 7 
 5 
Florida
   260
 1 
 11 
 3 
Illinois
   236
 - 
 5 
 2 
Indiana   120
 1 
 4 
 1 
North Carolina
   94
 - 
 2 
 - 
Kentucky   83
 - 
 3 
 2 
All other states
   250
 1 
 2 
 1 
Total $ 1,931
 8 
 54 
 24 
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  65  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 40: RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PORTFOLIO LOANS, LTV GREATER THAN 80%, NO MORTGAGE INSURANCE
As of December 31, 2012
 ($ in millions)
           For the Year Ended 
December 31, 2012 
      90 Days 
    Net Charge-offs 
By State: 
 Outstanding 
Past Due 
Nonaccrual 
Ohio  $ 600
 4 
 24 
 13 
Michigan 
  310
 1 
 10 
 10 
Florida 
  262
 - 
 17 
 15 
Illinois 
  193
 1 
 5 
 3 
Indiana 
  115
 1 
 5 
 2 
North Carolina 
  111
 1 
 5 
 3 
Kentucky 
  89
 1 
 2 
 1 
All other states 
  179
 - 
 5 
 5 
Total 
$ 1,859
 9 
 73 
 52 
   Home Equity Portfolio The Bancorp™s home equity portfolio is primarily comprised of 
home equity lines of credit. Beginning in the first quarter of 2013, 

the Bancorp™s newly originated home equity lines of credit have a 

10-year interest only draw period 
followed by a 20-year amortization 
period. The home equity line of credit previously offered by the 

Bancorp was a revolving facility with a 20-year term, minimum 
payments of interest only and a balloon payment of principal at 

maturity.  The ALLL provides coverage for probable and estimable losses 
in the home equity portfolio. Th
e allowance attributable to the 
portion of the home equity portfolio that has not been restructured 

in a TDR is calculated on a pooled basis with first lien and junior-

lien categories segmented in the 
determination of the probable 
credit losses in the home equity portfolio. The modeled loss factor 

for the home equity portfolio is based on the trailing twelve month 

historical loss rate for each category, as adjusted for certain 
prescriptive loss rate factors and certain qualitative adjustment 
factors to reflect risks associated 
with current conditions and trends. 
The prescriptive loss rate factors include adjustments for 

delinquency trends, LTV trends, re
freshed FICO score trends and 
product mix. The qualitative factor
s include adjustments for credit 
administration and portfolio management, credit policy and 

underwriting and the national 
and local economy. The Bancorp 
considers home price index trends when determining the national 
and local economy qualitative factor. 
The home equity portfolio is managed in two primary groups: 
loans outstanding with a LTV greater than 80% and those loans 

with a LTV 80% or less based upon appraisals at origination. The 

carrying value of the greater than 80% LTV home equity loans and 

80% or less LTV home equity loans were $3.2 billion and $6.0 

billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2013. Of the total $9.2 

billion of outstanding home equity loans:  
 82% reside within the Bancorp™s Midwest footprint of 
Ohio, Michigan, Kentucky, Indiana and Illinois;  33% are in senior lien positions and 67% are in junior lien 
positions at December 31, 2013;  Over 90% of non-delinquent borrowers made at least one 
payment greater than the minimum payment during the 
year ended December 31, 2013; and 
 The portfolio had an average refreshed
 FICO score of 736 
and 735 at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively.   
 The Bancorp actively manages lines of credit and makes 
reductions in lending limits when it believes it is necessary based on 

FICO score deterioration and property devaluation.  The Bancorp 

does not routinely obtain appraisals on performing loans to update 

LTV ratios after origination. However, the Bancorp monitors the 

local housing markets by reviewin
g various home price indices and 
incorporates the impact of the changing market conditions in its on-

going credit monitoring processes. For junior lien home equity loans 
which become 60 days or more past due, the Bancorp tracks the 
performance of the senior lien loans in which the Bancorp is the 

servicer and utilizes consumer cred
it bureau attributes to monitor 
the status of the senior lien loans 
that the Bancorp does not service. 
If the senior lien loan is found to 
be 120 days or more past due, the 
junior lien home equity loan is 
placed on nonaccrual status unless 
both loans are well-secured and in the process of collection. 

Additionally, if the junior lien home equity loan becomes 120 days 
or more past due and the senior 
lien loan is also 120 days or more 
past due, the junior lien home equity
 loan is assessed for charge-off, 
unless it is well-secured and in the 
process of collection. Refer to the 
Analysis of Nonperforming Assets section of the MD&A for more 

information. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  66  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  The following table provides an analysis of home equity loan
s outstanding disaggregated based upon refreshed FICO score: 
 TABLE 41: HOME EQUITY LOANS OUTSTANDING BY REFRESHED FICO SCORE
       December 31, 
2013
% of Total  
    December 31, 2012 
% of 
Total 
  ($ in millions) 
         Senior Liens: 
                 FICO < 620 
  $  201 
 2 
% $  224 
 2 
%FICO 621-719 
     638 
 7 
     653 
 6 
  FICO > 720  
     2,253 
 24 
     2,374 
 24 
          Total Senior Liens  
  3,092 
 33 
  3,251 
 32 
 Junior Liens: 
              FICO < 620 
     565 
 6 
     661 
 7 
  FICO 621-719 
     1,662 
 18 
 1,817 
 18 
  FICO > 720  
     3,927 
 43 
     4,289 
 43 
         Total Junior Liens  
   6,154 
 67 
     6,767 
 68 
  Total  
  $  9,246 
 100 
% $  10,018 
 100 
% The Bancorp believes that home equity loans with a greater than 
80% combined LTV ratio present a higher level of risk. The foll
owing table 
provides an analysis of the home equity loans outstanding in
 a first and second lien position by LTV at origination: 
                         TABLE 42: HOME EQUITY LOANS OUTSTANDING BY LTV AT ORIGINATION
                2013 
     2012 
        Weighted 
Average LTV 
         Weighted 
Average LTV
 As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
 Outstanding 
       Outstanding 
 Senior Liens: 
                   LTV  80% 
$ 2,645 
  54.9 
%   $  2,763
  54.9 
%LTV > 80% 
  447 
  89.2 
       488
  88.9 
     Total Senior Liens  
  3,092 
  60.1 
       3,251
  60.2 
 Junior Liens:
                   LTV  80% 
  3,353 
   67.3 
       3,602
  67.3 
 LTV > 80% 
  2,801 
   91.4 
       3,165
  91.6 
     Total Junior Liens  
  6,154 
   80.2 
       6,767
  80.5 
 Total  
$ 9,246 
   72.9 
%   $  10,018
  73.4 
% The following tables provide analysis of home e
quity loans by state with LTV greater than 80%:
          TABLE 43: HOME EQUITY LOANS OUTSTANDING WITH LTV GREATER THAN 80%
     As of December 31, 2013 ($ in millions) 
         For the Year Ended 
December 31, 2013 
   90 Days 
By State: 
 Outstanding
Exposure 
Past Due 
Nonaccrual
(a) Net Charge-offs(b) 
 Ohio $ 1,161 
 1,868 
 - 
 10 
 18 
Michigan
   697 
 987 
 - 
 7 
 14 
Illinois
   383 
 554 
 - 
 6 
 9 
Indiana   296 
 454 
 - 
 3 
 4 
Kentucky   278 
 436 
 - 
 2 
 3 
Florida
   116 
 157 
 - 
 3 
 4 
All other states
   317 
 425 
 - 
 4 
 7 
Total $ 3,248 
 4,881 
 - 
 35 
 59 
(a) During the fourth quarter of 20
13, the Bancorp modified its nonaccrual policy for home equity loans and lines of credit. For fu
rther information, refer to the Anal
ysis of Nonperforming Assets section 
of MD&A. (b) During the fourth quarter 
of 2013, the Bancorp modified its charge-off policy 
for home equity loans and lines of credit. For fu
rther information, refer to the Analys
is of Net Loan Charge-offs section 
of MD&A.  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  67  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 44: HOME EQUITY LOANS OUTSTANDING WITH LTV GREATER THAN 80%
    As of December 31, 2012
 ($ in millions)
           For the Year Ended 
December 31, 2012 
         90 Days 
    Net Charge-offs 
By State: 
 Outstanding 
Exposure 
Past Due 
Nonaccrual 
Ohio $ 1,254
 1,927
 8 
 6 
 24 
Michigan 
  795
 1,108
 6 
 4 
 24 
Illinois 
  428
 611
 5 
 3 
 17 
Indiana 
  348
 521
 2 
 2 
 5 
Kentucky 
  327
 499
 2 
 1 
 6 
Florida 
  130
 175
 2 
 3 
 8 
All other states 
  371
 491
 4 
 2 
 17 
Total 
$ 3,653
 5,332
 29 
 21 
 101 
   Automobile Portfolio The automobile portfolio is charac
terized by direct and indirect 
lending products to consumers. As of December 31, 2013, 51% of 

the automobile loan portfolio is 
comprised of loans collateralized by 
new automobiles. It is a common practice to advance on automobile 
loans an amount in excess of the automobile value due to the 
inclusion of taxes, title, and other fees paid at closing. The Bancorp 

monitors its exposure to these higher risk loans.  
 The following table provides an analysis of autom
obile loans outstanding by LTV at origination: 
                        TABLE 45: AUTOMOBILE LOANS OUTSTANDING WITH LTV AT ORIGINATION
                2013 
     2012 
        Weighted 
Average LTV 
         Weighted 
Average LTV
 As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
 Outstanding 
       Outstanding 
  LTV  100% 
$ 8,306 
   81.4 
%   $  8,123 
  81.5 
%LTV > 100% 
  3,678 
   110.7 
       3,849 
  110.8 
 Total  
$ 11,984 
   90.7 
%   $  11,972 
  91.2 
% The following tables provide analysis of
 the Bancorp™s automobile loans with a LTV at origination greater than 100%:       TABLE 46: AUTOMOBILE LOANS OUTSTANDING WITH LTV GREATER THAN 100%
As of December 31, 2013 ($ in millions) 
          For the Year Ended 
December 31, 2013 
       90 Days 
    Net Charge-offs 
By State: 
 Outstanding
 Past Due 
Nonaccrual 
Ohio $ 371 
 1 
 - 
 1 
Illinois
   201 
 - 
 - 
 1 
Michigan
   185 
 - 
 - 
 1 
Florida
   185 
 - 
 - 
 1 
Indiana   147 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Kentucky   119 
 - 
 - 
 - 
All other states
   2,470 
 4 
 1 
 10 
Total $ 3,678 
 5 
 1 
 14 
 TABLE 47: AUTOMOBILE LOANS OUTSTANDING WITH LTV GREATER THAN 100%
As of December 31, 2012
 ($ in millions)
           For the Year Ended 
December 31, 2012 
   90 Days 
Net Charge-offs 
By State: 
 Outstanding 
Past Due 
Nonaccrual 
Ohio $ 409 
 - 
 - 
 2 
Illinois 
  232 
 - 
 - 
 2 
Michigan 
  221 
 - 
 - 
 2 
Florida 
  194 
 - 
 - 
 1 
Indiana 
  158 
 - 
 - 
 1 
Kentucky 
  141 
 - 
 - 
 1 
All other states 
  2,494 
 4 
 2 
 15 
Total 
$ 3,849 
 4 
 2 
 24 
   European Exposure  
The Bancorp has no direct sovereign exposure to any European 

government as of December 31, 2013.  In providing services to our 

customers, the Bancorp routinely en
ters into financial transactions 
with foreign domiciled and U.S. su
bsidiaries of foreign businesses as 
well as foreign financial institutions
.  These financial transactions are 
in the form of loans, loan commit
ments, letters of credit, derivatives 
and securities.  The Bancorp™s risk appetite for foreign country 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  68  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 exposure is managed by having es
tablished country exposure limits. The Bancorp™s total exposure to European domiciled or owned 

businesses and European financial institutions was $3.3 billion and 

funded exposure was $1.8 billi
on as of December 31, 2013.  
Additionally, the Bancorp was within its established country 
exposure limits for all European countries.  
Certain European countries have been experiencing increased 
levels of stress throughout 2012 
and 2013 including Greece, Ireland, 
Italy, Portugal and Spain.  The Bancorp™s total exposure to 

businesses domiciled or owned by companies and financial 
institutions in these countries 
was approximately $212 million and 
funded exposure was $103 million as of December 31, 2013. 
 The following table provides detail about the Bancorp™s exposur
e to all European domiciled and owned businesses and financial 
institutions as o
f December 31, 2013:
                         TABLE 48: EUROPEAN EXPOSURE
                  Sovereigns  
 Financial Institutions 
 Non-Financial 
Institutions  
  Total  
    Total  
Funded  
 Total  
Funded  
 Total  
Funded  
  Total  
Funded  
($ in millions)  
  Exposure 
Exposure 
 Exposure 
Exposure 
 Exposure  
Exposure  
  Exposure
(a)Exposure 
Peripheral Europe
(b) $ - 
 - 10 
 -  202 
 103 
   212 
 103
Other Eurozone
(c)   - 
 - 56 
 14
  2,031 
 1,161 
   2,087 
 1,175
      Total Eurozone 
  - 
 - 66 
 14
  2,233 
 1,264 
   2,299 
 1,278
Other Europe
(d)   - 
 - 83 
 23
  889 
 500 
   972 
 523
       Total Europe 
 $ - 
 - 149 
 37
  3,122 
 1,764 
   3,271 
 1,801
(a) Total exposure includes funded exposure and unf
unded commitments, reported net of collateral.  
(b) Peripheral Europe includes Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain.  
(c) Eurozone includes countries participating in the European common currency (Euro).  
(d) Other Europe includes European countries not part of th
e Euro (primarily the United Kingdom and Switzerland). 
Analysis of Nonperforming Assets 
Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans and leases for 

which ultimate collectability of the full amount of the principal 
and/or interest is uncertain; restru
ctured commercial and credit card 
loans which have not yet met the requirements to be classified as a 

performing asset; restructured consumer loans which are 90 days 

past due based on the restructured terms unless the loan is both 

well-secured and in the process of collection; and certain other 

assets, including OREO and other repossessed property. A 

summary of nonperforming assets
 is included in Table 49.  
Residential mortgage loans are typically placed on nonaccrual 
status when principal and intere
st payments have become past due 
150 days unless such loans are both
 well secured and in the process 
of collection. Residential mortga
ge loans may stay on nonaccrual 
status for an extended time as the 
foreclosure process typically lasts 
longer than 180 days. During th
e fourth quarter of 2013, the 
Bancorp modified its nonaccrual policy for home equity loans and 

lines of credit. Home equity loans and lines of credit are reported on 

nonaccrual status if principal or in
terest has been in default for 90 
days or more unless the loan is bo
th well secured and in the process 
of collection. Home equity loans and 
lines of credit that have been 
in default for 60 days or more are also reported on nonaccrual status 

if the senior lien has been in default 120 days or more, unless the 

loan is both well secured and in the process of collection. As a result 

of the modification of the nonaccrual policy for home equity loans 

and lines of credit, $46 million of home equity loans and lines of 

credit were reclassified from accr
ual to nonaccrual status during the 
fourth quarter of 2013. Residential mortgage, home equity, 
automobile and other consumer loans and leases that have been 
modified in a TDR and subsequently become past due 90 days are 

placed on nonaccrual status unless the loan is both well secured and 

in the process of collection. Commercial and credit card loans that 

have been modified in a TDR are classified as nonaccrual unless 

such loans have a sustained repayment performance of six months 

or greater and the Bancorp is reasonably assured of repayment in 
accordance with the restructured terms. Well secured loans are 
collateralized by perfected security interests in real and/or personal 

property for which the Bancorp estimates proceeds from sale would 

be sufficient to recover the outstanding principal and accrued 

interest balance of the loan and pa
y all costs to sell the collateral. 
The Bancorp considers a loan in the process of collection if 
collection efforts or legal action is proceeding and the Bancorp 

expects to collect funds sufficien
t to bring the loan current or 
recover the entire outstanding 
principal and accrued interest 
balance. When a loan is placed 
on nonaccrual status, the accrual of 
interest, amortization of loan premi
ums, accretion of loan discounts 
and amortization or accretion of deferred net loan fees or costs are 

discontinued and previously accrued, 
but unpaid interest is reversed. 
Commercial loans on nonaccrual status are reviewed for impairment 

at least quarterly. If the princip
al or a portion of the principal is 
deemed a loss, the loss amount is charged off to the ALLL.  
Total nonperforming assets, including loans held for sale, were 
$986 million at December 31 2013 compared to $1.3 billion at 

December 31, 2012. At December 31, 2013, $6 million of 

nonaccrual loans, consisting primarily
 of real estate secured loans, 
were held for sale, compared to $29 million at December 31, 2012.  
Total nonperforming assets, including loans held for sale, as a 
percentage of total loans, leases
 and other assets, including OREO 
as of December 31, 2013 were 1.10%, compared to 1.48% as of 
December 31, 2012. Excluding nonaccrual loans held for sale, 
nonperforming assets as a percentage of portfolio loans, leases and 

other assets, including OREO were 1.10% as of December 31, 

2013, compared to 1.49% as of December 31, 2012. The 

composition of nonaccrual loans and leases continues to be 

concentrated in real estate as 
60% of nonaccrual loans and leases 
were secured by real estate as of December 31, 2013 compared to 

67% as of December 31, 2012.  
Commercial nonperforming loans and leases were $464 million 
at December 31, 2013, a decrease of $262 million from December 

31, 2012 due primarily to the impact of loss mitigation actions and 

modest improvement in general economic conditions. Excluding 

commercial nonperforming loans and leases held for sale, 

commercial nonperforming loans and leases at December 31, 2013 

decreased $239 million compared to December 31, 2012. 
Consumer nonperforming loans an
d leases were $293 million 
at December 31, 2013, a decrease of $39 million from December 31, 
2012. The decrease is primarily du
e to a decline in new nonaccrual 
levels due to modest improvement in general economic conditions 

in 2013. Home equity nonaccrual leve
ls increased $39 million from 
the prior year due to the aforementioned nonaccrual policy change 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  69  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 which occurred during the fourth quarter of 2013. Geographical 
market conditions continue to be a large driver of nonaccrual 

activity as Florida properties re
present approximately 13% and 8% 
of residential mortgage and home equity balances, respectively, but 

represent 38% and 15% of nonaccrual loans for each category. 
Refer to Table 50 for a rollforward of the nonperforming loans and 
leases. OREO and other repossessed property, excluding OREO 
related to government insured loans, was $229 million at December 

31, 2013, compared to $257 million at December 31, 2012. The 

decrease from December 31, 2012 was primarily due to the sale of 

OREO properties coupled with a decrease in new OREO 

properties reflecting the changes made to the Bancorp™s 
underwriting of real estate loans in prior periods as well as modest 
improvements in general economic conditions during 2013. The 

Bancorp recognized $45 million and $74 million in losses on the sale 

or write-down of OREO properties in 2013 and 2012, respectively. 

These losses are primarily reflective of the continued stress in the 

Michigan and Florida markets for commercial real estate and 

residential mortgage loans as Michigan and Florida represented 15% 

and 15%, respectively, of total OREO losses in 2013 compared with 
14% and 17%, respectively, in 2012. Properties in Michigan and 
Florida accounted for 36% of OREO at December 31, 2013, 

compared to 38% at December 31, 2012.  
In 2013 and 2012, approximately $71 million and $102 million, 
respectively, of interest income would have been recorded if the 

nonaccrual and renegotiated loans and leases on nonaccrual status 

had been current in accordance with their original terms. Although 

these values help demonstrate the costs of carrying nonaccrual 
credits, the Bancorp does not expect
 to recover the full amount of 
interest as nonaccrual loans and leases are generally carried below 

their principal balance. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  70  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 49: SUMMARY OF NONPERFORMING ASSETS AND DELINQUENT LOANS
                  As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
 2013  
 2012  
 2011  
  2010  
 2009  
Nonaccrual loans and leases: 
                            Commercial and industrial loans 
$127    234 
   408 
    473 
   734 
    Commercial mortgage loans 
 90 
   215 
   358 
    407 
   898 
    Commercial construction loans 
 10    70 
   123 
    182 
   646 
    Commercial leases 
 3    1    9     11 
   67 
    Residential mortgage loans 
 83 
   114 
   134 
    152 
   275 
    Home equity  
 74 
   30 
   25 
    23 
   21 
    Automobile loans  
 -    -    -     1    1     Other consumer loans and leases 
 -    1    1     84 
   -   Restructured loans and leases: 
                            Commercial and industrial loans  
 154    96 
   79 
    95 
   35 
    Commercial mortgage loans
(f)   53 
   67 
   63 
    28 
   4     Commercial construction loans 
 19    6    15 
    10 
   8     Commercial leases 
 2    8    3     8    -     Residential mortgage loans 
 83 
   123 
   141 
    116 
   137 
    Home equity 
 19    23 
   29 
    33 
   33 
    Automobile loans 
 1    2    2     2    1     Credit card and other 
 33 
   39 
   48 
    55 
   87 
  Total nonperforming loans and leases
(d)   751 
   1,029 
   1,438 
    1,680 
   2,947 
  OREO and other repossessed property
(c)   229 
   257 
   378 
    494 
   297 
  Total nonperforming assets 
 980 
   1,286 
   1,816 
    2,174 
   3,244 
  Nonaccrual loans held for sale 
 6    29 
   138 
    294 
   224 
  Total nonperforming assets including loans held for sale 
$986 
   1,315 
   1,954 
    2,468 
   3,468 
  Loans and leases 90 days past due and accruing: 
                            Commercial and industrial loans 
$ - 
    1 
    4 
     16 
    118 
    Commercial mortgage loans 
  - 
    22 
    3 
     11 
    59 
    Commercial construction loans 
  - 
    1 
    1 
     3 
    17 
    Commercial leases 
  - 
    - 
    - 
     - 
    4 
    Residential mortgage loans
(b)    66 
    75 
    79 
     100 
    189 
    Home equity 
  - 
    58 
    74 
     89 
    99 
    Automobile loans 
  8 
    8 
    9 
     13 
    17 
    Credit card and other 
  29 
    30 
    30 
     42 
    64 
  Total loans and leases 90 days past due and accruing
(e)
 $ 103 
    195 
    200 
     274 
    567 
  Nonperforming assets as a percent 
of portfolio loans, leases and  
                             other  assets, including OREO
(a)    1.10 
%  1.49 
    2.23 
     2.79 
    4.22 
  Allowance for loan and lease 
losses as a percent of  
                             nonperforming assets
(a)    161 
    144 
    124 
     138 
    116 
  (a) Excludes nonaccrual loans held for sale.
 (b) Information for all periods presented excludes 
advances made pursuant to servicing agreements to GNMA mortgage loan pools whose
 repayments are insured by the Federal Housing Administration 
or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs. As of 
December 31, 2013
, 2012, 2011, 20
10, and 2009 these advances were 
$378, $414, $309, $279 and $130, respectively. The 
Bancorp recognized credit losses of 
$5 for the year ended 
December 31, 2013
 and $2 for 2012 due to claim denials and cu
rtailments associated with these advances.  
(c) Excludes $77
, $72, $64, $38 and $15 of OREO rela
ted to government insured loans at 
December 31, 2013
, 2012, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.  
(d) Includes $10
, $10, $17, $24, and $32 of nonaccrual government insured 
commercial loans whose repayments are insured by the SBA at 
December 31, 2013
, 2012, 2011, 2010, and 2009, 
respectively, and 
$2, 
$1, $2, $0, and $0 of restructured nonaccrual government insured commercial loans at 
December 31, 2013
, 2012, 2011, 2010, and 2009, respectively.
 (e) Includes an immaterial amount of government insured commercial 
loans 90 days past due and accruing whose repayments are insured
 by the SBA at 
December 31, 2013
, 2012, 2011, 2010, 
and 2009. 
(f) Excludes $21
 of restructured nonaccrual loans at 
December 31, 2013
 associated with a consolidated variable interest entity in wh
ich the Bancorp has no continuing
 credit risk due to the risk 
being assumed by a third party. 
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  71  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following table provides a rollforward of portfolio
 nonperforming loans and leases, by portfolio segment: 
                     TABLE 50: ROLLFORWARD OF PORTFOLIO NONPERFORMING LOANS AND LEASES
                   Residential       For the year ended December 31, 2013 ($ in millions)
  Commercial 
Mortgage 
Consumer  
Total  
Beginning Balance  
$ 697 
  237 
   95 
   1,029 
    Transfers to nonperforming 
  409 
  204 
   297 
   910 
    Transfers to performing 
  (9)
  (52)
   (60)
   (121)
    Transfers to performing (restructured) 
  (15)
  (41)
   (62)
   (118)
    Transfers to held for sale 
  (3)
  - 
   - 
   (3)
    Loans sold from portfolio 
  (38)
  - 
   - 
   (38)
    Loan paydowns/payoffs 
  (295)
  (112)
   (11)
   (418)
    Transfers to other real estate owned 
  (81)
  (73)
   (13)
   (167)
    Charge-offs (recoveries) 
  (221)
  3 
   (122)
   (340)
    Draws/other extensions of credit 
  14 
  - 
   3 
   17 
  Ending Balance 
 $ 458 
  166 
   127 
   751 
          For the year ended December 31
, 2012 ($ in millions) 
               Beginning Balance  
$ 1,058 
  275 
   105 
   1,438 
    Transfers to nonperforming 
  560 
  318 
   354 
   1,232 
    Transfers to performing 
  (22)
  (45)
   (73)
   (140)
    Transfers to performing (restructured) 
  (31)
  (57)
   (90)
   (178)
    Transfers to held for sale 
  (13)
  - 
   - 
   (13)
    Loans sold from portfolio 
  (36)
  (4)
   - 
   (40)
    Loan paydowns/payoffs 
  (466)
  (121)
   (12)
   (599)
    Transfers to other real estate owned 
  (108)
  (71)
   - 
   (179)
    Charge-offs 
  (297)
  (58)
   (194)
   (549)
    Draws/other extensions of credit 
  52 
  - 
   5 
   57 
  Ending Balance  
$ 697 
  237 
   95 
   1,029 
                      Troubled Debt Restructurings
 If a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty, the Bancorp may 

consider, in certain circumstances, modifying the terms of their loan 

to maximize collection of amounts due. Typically, these 
modifications reduce the loan interest rate, extend the loan term, 
reduce the accrued interest or in limited circumstances, reduce the 

principal balance of the loan. Thes
e modifications are classified as 
TDRs. At the time of modification, the Bancorp maintains certain 
consumer loan TDRs (including residential mortgage loans, home 

equity loans, and other consumer loans) on accrual status, provided 

there is reasonable assurance of repayment and performance 
according to the modified terms based upon a current, well-
documented credit evaluation. Co
mmercial loans modified as part 
of a TDR are maintained on accrual status provided there is a 
sustained payment history of six months or greater prior to the 

modification in accordance with
 the modified terms and all 
remaining contractual payments under the modified terms are 
reasonably assured of collection. TDRs of commercial loans and 
credit card loans that do not have a sustained payment history of six 

months or greater in accordance with the modified terms remain on 

nonaccrual status until a six-mont
h payment history is sustained.  
Consumer restructured loans on accrual status totaled $1.7 
billion at December 31, 2013 and December 31, 2012. As of 

December 31, 2013, the percentage of restructured residential 

mortgage loans, home equity loans,
 and credit card loans that are 
past due 30 days or more were 17%, 11% and 16%, respectively. 
 The following table summarizes TDRs by
 loan type and delinquency status:
                      TABLE 51: PERFORMING AND NONPERFORMING TDRs
                     Performing 
               30-89 Days  
90 Days or 
       As of December 31, 2013
 ($ in millions) 
 Current 
Past Due 
More Past Due 
Nonaccrual 
 Total  
Commercial
(b)(c)  $  869 
  -   - 
  228 
  $ 1,097
 Residential mortgages
(a)    1,045 
 82   114 
  84 
    1,325
 Home equity 
  368 
 26   - 
  18 
    412
 Credit card 
  25 
  -   - 
  33 
    58
 Automobile and other consumer loans and leases 
  24 
 1   - 
  1     26
 Total 
$ 2,331 
 109
   114 
  364 
  $ 2,918
 (a)
 Information includes advances made pursuant to servicing agreemen
ts for GNMA mortgage pools whose repayments are insured by the
 Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the 
Department of Veterans Affairs. As of December 31, 2013, these 
advances represented $155 of current
 loans, $31 of 30-89 days pa
st due loans and $88 of 90 days or more past due loans. 
 (b) Excludes $8 of restructured accruing loans and $21 of restructur
ed nonaccrual loans associated with a consolidated variable int
erest entity in which the Bancorp 
has no continuing credit risk 
due to the risk being assumed by a third party. 
(c) Excludes restructured nonaccrual loans held for sale.  
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  72  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Analysis of Net Loan Charge-offs 
Net charge-offs were 58 bps and 85 
bps of average portfolio loans 
and leases for the years 
ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, 
respectively. Table 52 provides a 
summary of credit loss experience 
and net charge-offs as a percentage
 of average portfolio loans and 
leases outstanding by loan category. The ratio of commercial loan and lease net charge-offs to 
average portfolio commercial loans and leases decreased to 44 bps 

during 2013 compared to 63 bps in 2012, as a result of decreases in 

net charge-offs of $77 million couple
d with an increase in average 
portfolio commercial loan and le
ase balances of $3.7 billion. 
Decreases in net charge-offs were realized across all commercial 
loan types, excluding commerc
ial and industrial loans which 
increased primarily due to a $43 
million charge-off on a single large 
credit during the fourth quarter 
of 2013, and were primarily due to 
improvements in general economic conditions and previous actions 

taken by the Bancorp to address problem loans. Actions taken by 

the Bancorp included suspending homebuilder and developer 

lending in 2007 and non-owner occupied commercial real estate 

lending in 2008 and tightened underwriting standards across all 
commercial loan product offerings. The Bancorp resumed 
homebuilder and developer le
nding and non-owner occupied commercial real estate lending in the third quarter of 2011. Net 

charge-offs for 2013 related to non-owner occupied commercial real 

estate were $27 million compared to $87 million in 2012. Net 

charge-offs related to non-owner occupied commercial real estate 

are recorded in the commercial mortgage loans and commercial 

construction loans captions in Table 52. Net charge-offs on these 
loans represented 12% of tot
al commercial loan and lease net 
charge-offs in 2013 and 29% in 2012.  
The ratio of consumer loan 
and lease net charge-offs to 
average consumer loans and leases decreased to 77 bps in 2013 

compared to 113 bps in 2012. 
Net charge-offs on residential 
mortgage loans, which typically 
involve partial charge-offs based 
upon appraised values of underlying collateral, decreased $62 

million from the prior year as a result of improvements in 

delinquencies and a decrease in the average loss recorded per 
charge-off. The Bancorp™s Florida and Michigan markets, in 
aggregate, accounted for 42% and 66% of net charge-offs on 

residential mortgage loans in the portfolio in 2013 and 2012, 

respectively. The Bancorp expects the composition of the residential mortgage portfolio to improve as it continues to retain high quality, 

shorter duration residential mortgage loans that are originated 

through its branch network as a low-cost, refinance product of 

conforming residential mortgage loans. Home equity net charge-offs decreased $60 million compared 
to the prior year, primarily due to
 improvements in loss severities 
and delinquencies, partially offset by 
the impact of the change in the 
home equity charge-off policy during
 the fourth quarter of 2013. 
Home equity loans and lines of credit
 that have been in default 120 
days or more are assessed for a charge-off if the senior lien has been 

in default 120 days or more. In addition, management actively 

manages lines of credit and makes reductions in lending limits when 
it believes it is necessary based on FICO score deterioration and 
property devaluation.  Automobile loan net charge-offs decreased $9 million 
compared to 2012, due to the origin
ation of high credit quality loans 
and higher resale on automobiles sold at auction. Credit card and other consumer loans and leases net charge-
offs increased $5 million from 2012. Credit card net charge-offs 

increased $4 million from the prior year. The Bancorp utilizes a risk-
adjusted pricing methodology to en
sure adequate compensation is 
received for those products that have higher credit costs. Other 

consumer loan net charge-offs rem
ained relatively flat compared to 
the same period in the prior year. 
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  73  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 52: SUMMARY OF CREDIT LOSS EXPERIENCE
              For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
 2013  
2012 
 2011  
2010  
2009  
 Losses charged off: 
                       Commercial and industrial loans  
$(207)  (194)
  (314)
  (631)
  (768)
    Commercial mortgage loans 
 (66)  (120)
  (211)
  (541)
  (436)
    Commercial construction loans 
 (9)  (34)
  (89)
  (265)
  (420)
    Commercial leases 
 (2)  (10)
  (1)
  (7)
  (11)
    Residential mortgage loans 
 (70)  (129)
  (180)
  (441)
  (359)
    Home equity  
 (114)  (172)
  (234)
  (276)
  (330)
    Automobile loans  
 (44)  (55)
  (85)
  (132)
  (189)
    Credit card 
 (92)  (90)
  (114)
  (164)
  (178)
    Other consumer loans and leases 
 (33)  (33)
  (86)
  (28)
  (28)
  Total losses 
 (637)  (837)
  (1,314)
  (2,485)
  (2,719)
  Recoveries of losses previously charged off: 
                       Commercial and industrial loans  
 39 
  29 
  38 
  45 
  50 
    Commercial mortgage loans 
 19   21 
  16 
  17 
  14 
    Commercial construction loans 
 5   9   4   13 
  4     Commercial leases 
 1   2   3   5   4     Residential mortgage loans 
 10   7   7   2   2     Home equity  
 17   15 
  14 
  12 
  8     Automobile loans  
 22 
  24 
  32 
  44 
  41 
    Credit card 
 14   16 
  16 
  9   8     Other consumer loans and leases 
 9   10 
  12 
  10 
  7   Total recoveries 
 136   133 
  142 
  157 
  138 
  Net losses charged off: 
                       Commercial and industrial loans  
 (168)  (165)
  (276)
  (586)
  (718)
    Commercial mortgage loans 
 (47)  (99)
  (195)
  (524)
  (422)
    Commercial construction loans 
 (4)  (25)
  (85)
  (252)
  (416)
    Commercial leases 
 (1)  (8)
  2   (2)
  (7)
    Residential mortgage loans 
 (60)  (122)
  (173)
  (439)
  (357)
    Home equity  
 (97)  (157)
  (220)
  (264)
  (322)
    Automobile loans  
 (22)  (31)
  (53)
  (88)
  (148)
    Credit card 
 (78)  (74)
  (98)
  (155)
  (170)
    Other consumer loans and leases 
 (24)  (23)
  (74)
  (18)
  (21)
  Total net losses charged off 
$(501)  (704)
  (1,172)
  (2,328)
  (2,581)
  Net charge-offs as a percent of average loan
s and leases (excluding held for sale): 
                       Commercial and industrial loans  
 0.44 
%0.50 
  0.97 
  2.23 
  2.61 
    Commercial mortgage loans 
 0.56 
  1.02 
  1.89 
  4.58 
  3.43 
    Commercial construction loans 
 0.51 
  3.08 
  4.96 
  8.48 
  9.24 
    Commercial leases 
 0.04 
  0.22 
  (0.08)
  0.05 
  0.22 
  Total commercial loans 
 0.44 
  0.63 
  1.26 
  3.10 
  3.27 
    Residential mortgage loans 
 0.48 
  1.07 
  1.75 
  5.49 
  4.15 
    Home equity  
 1.02   1.51 
  1.97 
  2.20 
  2.57 
    Automobile loans  
 0.18 
  0.26 
  0.47 
  0.85 
  1.68 
    Credit card 
 3.67 
  3.79 
  5.19 
  8.28 
  8.87 
    Other consumer loans and leases 
 6.71 
  7.02 
  15.29 
  2.58 
  2.14 
  Total consumer loans and leases 
 0.77 
  1.13 
  1.79 
  2.92 
  3.10 
  Total net losses charged off 
 0.58 
%0.85 
  1.49 
  3.02 
  3.20 
          Allowance for Credit Losses 
The allowance for credit losses is
 comprised of the ALLL and the 
reserve for unfunded commitments
. The ALLL provides coverage 
for probable and estimable losses in the loan and lease portfolio. 

The Bancorp evaluates the ALLL each quarter to determine its 

adequacy to cover inherent losses. Several factors are taken into 

consideration in the determinati
on of the overall ALLL, including 
an unallocated component. These factors include, but are not 

limited to, the overall risk profile 
of the loan and lease portfolios, 
net charge-off experience, the extent
 of impaired loans and leases, 
the level of nonaccrual loans and leases, the level of 90 days past 

due loans and leases and the over
all percentage level of the ALLL 
relative to portfolio loans and leases. The Bancorp also considers 

overall asset quality trends, credit administration and portfolio 

management practices, risk identifica
tion practices, credit policy and 
underwriting practices, overall 
portfolio growth, portfolio 
concentrations and current national and local economic conditions 
that might impact the portfolio. See 
the Critical Accounting Policies 
section for more information. In 2013, the Bancorp did not substantively change any material 
aspect of its overall approach in the determination of the ALLL and 

there have been no material changes in assumptions or estimation 

techniques as compared to prior periods that impacted the 

determination of the current period allowance. In addition to the 

ALLL, the Bancorp maintains a reserve for unfunded commitments 
recorded in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The 
methodology used to determine the adequacy of this reserve is 

similar to the Bancorp™s methodo
logy for determining the ALLL. 
The provision for unfunded commitments is included in other 

noninterest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
The ALLL attributable to the portion of the residential 
mortgage and consumer loan and lease portfolio that has not been 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  74  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 restructured is determined on a 
pooled basis with the segmentation 
being based on the similarity of credit risk characteristics. Loss 

factors for real estate backed consumer loans are developed for each 

pool based on the trailing twelve month historical loss rate, as 
adjusted for certain prescriptive loss rate factors and certain 
qualitative adjustment factors. The prescriptive loss rate factors and 

qualitative adjustments are designed to reflect risks associated with 

current conditions and trends which are not believed to be fully 

reflected in the trailing twelve month historical loss rate. For real 

estate backed consumer loans, the prescriptive loss rate factors 

include adjustments for delinquency trends, LTV trends, refreshed 

FICO score trends and product mi
x, and the qualitative factors 
include adjustments for credit administration and portfolio 
management practices, credit policy and underwriting practices and 

the national and local economy. The Bancorp considers home price 

index trends in its footprint when
 determining the national and local 
economy qualitative factor. The Bancorp also considers the volatility 

of collateral valuation trends wh
en determining the unallocated 
component of the ALLL. 
The Bancorp™s determination of the ALLL for commercial 
loans is sensitive to the risk grades
 it assigns to these loans. In the 
event that 10% of commercial loans in each risk category would 

experience a downgrade of one ri
sk category, the allowance for 
commercial loans would increase by approximately $152 million at 
December 31, 2013. In addition, the Bancorp™s determination of the 

allowance for residential and consumer
 loans is sensitive to changes 
in estimated loss rates. In the ev
ent that estimated loss rates would 
increase by 10%, the allowance for residential and consumer loans 

would increase by approximately $41 million at December 31, 2013. 

As several qualitative and quantitative factors are considered in 

determining the ALLL, these sensitiv
ity analyses do not necessarily 
reflect the nature and extent of 
future changes in the ALLL. They 
are intended to provide insights in
to the impact of adverse changes 
to risk grades and estimated loss rates and do not imply any 

expectation of future deterioration in
 the risk ratings or loss rates. 
Given current processes employed by the Bancorp, management 

believes the risk grades and estimated loss rates currently assigned 

are appropriate. 
 TABLE 53: CHANGES IN ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
                     For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
 2013 
 2012 
 2011  
2010  
2009  
ALLL:  Balance, beginning of period 
$ 1,854 
 2,255 
 3,004 
 3,749 
 2,787 
  Impact of change in accounting principle 
  - 
 - 
 - 
 45 
 - 
  Losses charged off 
  (637)
 (837)
 (1,314)
 (2,485)
 (2,719)
  Recoveries of losses previously charged off 
  136 
 133 
 142 
 157 
 138 
  Provision for loan and lease losses 
  229 
 303 
 423 
 1,538 
 3,543 
Balance, end of period 
$ 1,582 
 1,854 
 2,255 
 3,004 
 3,749 
        Reserve for unfunded commitmen
ts and letters of credit: 
                 Balance, beginning of period 
$ 179 
 181 
 227 
 294 
 195 
  Impact of change in accounting principle 
  - 
 - 
 - 
 (43)
 - 
  Provision (benefit) for unfunded co
mmitments and letters of credit 
  (17)
 (2)
 (46)
 (24)
 99 
Balance, end of period 
$ 162 
 179 
 181 
 227 
 294 
    Certain inherent, but unconfirmed losses are probable within the 
loan and lease portfolio. The Bancorp™s current methodology for 

determining the level of losses is based on historical loss rates, 

current credit grades, specific allocation on impaired commercial 

credits above specified threshol
ds and restructured residential 
mortgage, consumer and commercial loans and other qualitative 

adjustments. Due to the heavy reliance on realized historical losses 

and the credit grade rating process, the model-derived estimate of 
ALLL tends to slightly lag behind the deterioration in the portfolio, 
in a stable or deteriorating credit 
environment, and tend not to be as 
responsive when improved conditions have presented themselves. 

Given these model limitations, the qualitative adjustment factors 

may be incremental or decrement
al to the quantitative model 
results.  
An unallocated component to the ALLL is maintained to 
recognize the imprecision in esti
mating and measuring loss. The 
unallocated allowance as a percent of
 total portfolio loans and leases 
at December 31, 2013 and 2012 was 0.12% and 0.13%, respectively. 

The unallocated allowance was seven 
percent of the total allowance 
as of December 31, 2013 compared 
to six percent as of December 
31, 2012.  As shown in Table 54, the ALLL as a percent of portfolio loan 
and leases was 1.79% at December 31, 2013, compared to 2.16% at 
December 31, 2012. The ALLL was $1.6 billion as of December 31, 

2013, compared to $1.9 billion at December 31, 2012. The decrease 

is reflective of a number of factors including decreases in 

nonperforming loans and leases, improved delinquency metrics in 

commercial and consumer loans an
d leases and improvement in 
underlying loss trends.  
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  75  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 54: ATTRIBUTION OF ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN 
AND LEASE LOSSES TO PORTFOLIO LOANS AND LEASES
As of December 31 ($ in millions)
  2013  
2012 
 2011  
2010  
2009  
Allowance attributed to: 
                       Commercial and industrial loans  
$ 767 
   802 
   929 
  1,123 
  1,282 
    Commercial mortgage loans 
  212 
   333 
   441 
  597 
  734 
    Commercial construction loans 
  26 
   33 
   77 
  158 
  380 
    Commercial leases 
  53 
   68 
   80 
  111 
  121 
    Residential mortgage loans 
  189 
   229 
   227 
  310 
  375 
    Home equity  
  94 
   143 
   195 
   265 
   294 
    Automobile loans  
  23 
   28 
   43 
   73 
   127 
    Credit card 
  92 
   87 
   106 
   158 
   199 
    Other consumer loans and leases 
  16 
   20 
   21 
   59 
   44 
    Unallocated 
  110 
   111 
   136 
  150 
  193 
  Total ALLL 
$ 1,582 
   1,854 
   2,255 
  3,004 
  3,749 
  Portfolio loans and leases: 
                       Commercial and industrial loans  
$ 39,316 
   36,038 
   30,783 
   27,191 
   25,683 
    Commercial mortgage loans 
  8,066 
   9,103 
   10,138 
   10,845 
   11,803 
    Commercial construction loans 
  1,039 
   698 
   1,020 
   2,048 
   3,784 
    Commercial leases 
  3,625 
   3,549 
   3,531 
   3,378 
   3,535 
    Residential mortgage loans 
  12,680 
   12,017 
   10,672 
   8,956 
   8,035 
    Home equity  
  9,246 
   10,018 
   10,719 
   11,513 
   12,174 
    Automobile loans  
  11,984 
   11,972 
   11,827 
   10,983 
   8,995 
    Credit card 
  2,294 
   2,097 
   1,978 
   1,896 
   1,990 
    Other consumer loans and leases 
  364 
   290 
   350 
   681 
   780 
  Total portfolio loans and leases 
$ 88,614 
   85,782 
   81,018 
   77,491 
   76,779 
  Attributed allowance as a 
percent of respective portfolio loans and leases: 
                       Commercial and industrial loans  
  1.95 
% 2.23 
   3.02 
   4.13 
   4.99 
    Commercial mortgage loans 
  2.63 
   3.66 
   4.35 
   5.50 
   6.22 
    Commercial construction loans 
  2.50 
   4.73 
   7.55 
   7.71 
   10.04 
    Commercial leases 
  1.46 
   1.92 
   2.27 
   3.29 
   3.42 
    Residential mortgage loans 
  1.49 
   1.91 
   2.13 
   3.46 
   4.67 
    Home equity  
  1.02 
   1.43 
   1.82 
   2.30 
   2.41 
    Automobile loans  
  0.19 
   0.23 
   0.36 
   0.66 
   1.41 
    Credit card 
  4.01 
   4.15 
   5.36 
   8.33 
   10.00 
    Other consumer loans and leases 
  4.40 
   6.90 
   6.00 
   8.66 
   5.64 
    Unallocated (as a percent of to
tal portfolio loans and leases) 
  0.12 
   0.13 
   0.17 
   0.19 
   0.25 
  Total portfolio loans and leases 
  1.79 
% 2.16 
   2.78 
   3.88 
   4.88 
          MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT 
Market risk arises from the potential for market fluctuations in 
interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices that may 

result in potential reductions in net income. Interest rate risk, a 

component of market risk, is the exposure to adverse changes in net 

interest income or financial position due to changes in interest rates. 

Management considers interest rate risk a prominent market risk in 

terms of its potential impact on earnin
gs. Interest rate
 risk can occur 
for any one or more of the following reasons: 
  Assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different times;  Short-term and long-term market interest rates may change 
by different amounts; or  
 The expected maturity of various assets or liabilities may 
shorten or lengthen as interest rates change. 
 In addition to the direct impact of interest rate changes on net 
interest income, interest rates can 
indirectly impact earnings through 
their effect on loan demand, credit losses, mortgage originations, the 
value of servicing rights and other sources of the Bancorp™s 

earnings. Stability of the Bancorp™s net income is largely dependent 

upon the effective management of 
interest rate risk. Management 
continually reviews the Bancorp™
s balance sheet composition and 
earnings flows and models the intere
st rate risk, and possible actions 
to reduce this risk, given numerous
 possible future interest rate 
scenarios.  Interest Rate Risk Management Oversight
 The Bancorp™s Executive ALCO, which includes senior 
management representatives and is accountable to the ERM 

Committee, monitors and manages interest rate risk within Board 

approved policy limits. In addition 
to the risk management activities 
of ALCO, the Bancorp has a Mark
et Risk Management function as 
part of ERM that provides independent oversight of market risk 

activities. In 2012, the NII and EVE ALCO policy limits were 

lowered to reflect the Bancorp™s current risk appetite and due to 
significant uncertainty with resp
ect to the economic environment, 
market interest rates and balance sheet and deposit pricing 

behaviors. The policy limits were updated in conjunction with the 

Market Risk Management group 
and were approved by ALCO. 
 Net Interest Income Sensitivity
 The Bancorp utilizes a variety of measurement techniques to 

identify and manage its interest rate risk, including the use of an NII 
simulation model to analyze the sensitivity of net interest income to 
changing interest rates. The model is based on contractual and 

assumed cash flows and repricing characteristics for all of the 

Bancorp™s assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet exposures and 

incorporates market-based assumptions regarding the effect of 

changing interest rates on the prepayment rates of certain assets and 

attrition rates for certain liabilities.
 The model also includes senior 
management™s projections of the future volume and pricing of each 
of the product lines offered by the Bancorp as well as other 
pertinent assumptions. Actual results may differ from these 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  76  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 simulated results due to timing, ma
gnitude and frequency of interest 
rate changes as well as changes in market conditions and 

management strategies. The Bancorp™s interest rate risk
 exposure is currently evaluated 
by measuring the anticipated change in net interest income over 12-
month and 24-month horizons 
assuming 100 bps and 200 bps 
parallel ramped increases in interest rates. The analysis would 
typically include 100 bps and 200 bps parallel ramped decreases in 
interest rates; however, this analysis is currently omitted due to the 

current low levels of short-term in
terest rates. Applying the ramps 
would result in certain short-term 
interest rates becoming negative 
in the parallel ramped decrease s
cenarios. In accordance with the 
current policy, the rate movements
 are assumed to occur over one 
year and are sustained thereafter.  
 The following table shows the Bancorp™s estimated net interest 
income sensitivity profile and ALCO policy limits as of December
 31:                                TABLE 55: ESTIMATED NII SENSITIVITY PROFILE
                           2013  
 2012 
     Percent Change in NII 
(FTE)  ALCO Policy Limits 
 Percent Change in NII 
(FTE)  ALCO Policy Limits 
           12 Months
  13 to 24 
Months 
 12 Months
 13 to 24 
Months 
 12 Months 
  13 to 24 
Months 
 12 Months
 13 to 24 
Months 
Change in Interest Rates (bps) 
         +200  
1.73  %6.89  
(4.00)  (6.00) 
1.78  
% 7.75  
 (4.00)
  (6.00) 
+100  
0.77 
   3.37  
 - 
   -  
0.90  
  3.78  
  -  
  -  
      At December 31, 2013, the Bancorp™s net interest income would 
benefit modestly in year one and year two due to these parallel ramp 
increases. The benefit is attributab
le to the combination of floating-
rate assets, including our predom
inantly floating-rate commercial loan portfolio, and certain intermed
iate-term fixed rate liabilities. 
The benefit is down modestly when compared to December 31, 

2012. The lower net interest income 
benefit is attributable to an 
increase in fixed-rate securiti
es balances and the realization of 
slower prepayments on the available
-for-sale security portfolio in 
2013.  At December 31, 2012, prepayments speeds on certain 
available-for-sale securities were pr
ojected to slow in a rising rate 
environment, which provided a benefit to net interest income 

sensitivity at that time.  During 2013, these slowing prepayments 

were realized as a result of an increa
se in the level of market interest 
rates and mortgage rates.  Further 
increases in interest rates will not 
have the same impact on net interest income, which results in a 

modest reduction in the benefit.  The impacts of the slowing 

prepayments and the increase in th
e fixed-rate securities portfolio 
were partly offset by an increase
 in core deposit balances and an 
increase   in    actual   and   projected    fixed-rate   borrowings   and 

shareholder™s equity.
Economic Value of Equity Sensitivity
 The Bancorp also utilizes EVE as 
a measurement tool in managing 
interest rate risk. Whereas the net interest income sensitivity analysis 
highlights the impact on forecasted
 NII over 1- and 2-year time 
horizons, the EVE analysis is a point in time analysis of the current 

positions and incorporates all cash flows over their estimated 

remaining lives. The EVE of the balance sheet is defined as the 

discounted present value of all remaining asset and net derivative 

cash flows less the discounted 
value of all remaining liability cash 
flows. Due to this longer horizon, the sensitivity of EVE to changes 
in the level of interest rates is a measure of longer-term interest rate 
risk.  EVE values only the current balance sheet and does not 

incorporate the growth assumptions
 used in the NII sensitivity 
analysis. As with the NII simula
tion model, assumptions about the 
timing and variability of existing balance sheet cash flows are critical 

in the EVE analysis. Particularly important are assumptions driving 

loan and security prepayments an
d the expected balance attrition 
and pricing of transaction deposits.
  The following table shows the Bancorp™s EVE sensitivity profile as of December 31:
                TABLE 56: ESTIMATED EVE SENSITIVITY PROFILE
                 2013  
  2012 
 Change in Interest Rates (bps) 
Change in EVE
 ALCO Policy Limit
  Change in EVE 
 ALCO Policy Limit
+200  
(5.78)%(12.00)2.16 
%(12.00)
+100  
(2.91)     1.50 
   +25  
(0.70)     0.43 
   -25  
0.63
     (0.52)
       At December 31, 2013, the EVE sensitivity was modestly negative, 
compared to a small benefit at
 December 31, 2012. The primary 
factors contributing to the change 
are an increase in the average life 
of mortgage loan and securities 
positions as a result of slowing 
prepayments due to increases in the levels of market interest rates 

and mortgage rates, growth in fi
xed-rate securities balances, and a 
decreased benefit related to MSRs. At December 31, 2012, the MSR 
valuation was projected to benefi
t from slowing prepayments that 
would occur with rising interest 
rates. Slowing prepayments were 
realized during 2013 due to increased market rates, and 

consequently, future increases in interest rates will have a smaller 

benefit to the MSR valuation. 
While an instantaneous shift in in
terest rates is used in this 
analysis to provide an estimate of exposure, the Bancorp believes 

that a gradual shift in interest rates would have a much more modest 

impact. Since EVE measures the discounted present value of cash 
flows over the estimated lives of instruments, the change in EVE 

does not directly correlate to the degree that earnings would be 

impacted over a shorter time horizon (e.g., the current fiscal year). 
Further, EVE does not take into account factors such as future 
balance sheet growth, changes in 
product mix, changes in yield 
curve relationships and changing product spreads that could 

mitigate or exacerbate the impact of changes in interest rates. The 

NII simulations and EVE analyses do not necessarily include certain 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  77  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 actions that management may undertake to manage risk in response 
to anticipated changes in interest rates. 
The Bancorp regularly evaluates its exposures to LIBOR and 
Prime basis risks, nonparallel shifts
 in the yield curve and embedded 
options risk. In addition, the impact on NII and EVE of more 
extreme changes in interest rates is modeled, wherein the Bancorp 
employs the use of yield curve shocks and environment-specific 

scenarios.  Use of Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate Risk 
An integral component of the Bancorp™s interest rate risk 

management strategy is its use of de
rivative instruments to minimize 
significant fluctuations in earnings caused by changes in market 

interest rates. Examples of deriva
tive instruments that the Bancorp 
may use as part of its interest rate risk management strategy include 
interest rate swaps, interest rate floors, interest rate caps, forward 

contracts, options, swapti
ons and TBA securities.  
 As part of its overall risk management strategy relative to its 
mortgage banking activity, the Bancorp enters into forward 

contracts accounted for as free-st
anding derivatives to economically 
hedge interest rate lock commitments that are also considered free-

standing derivatives. Additionally,
 the Bancorp economically hedges 
its exposure to mortgage loans he
ld for sale through the use of 
forward contracts and mortgage options.  
The Bancorp also establishes de
rivative contracts with major 
financial institutions to economic
ally hedge significant exposures 
assumed in commercial customer accommodation derivative 
contracts. Generally, these contracts 
have similar terms in order to 
protect the Bancorp from market volatility. Credit risk arises from 

the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their 

contracts, which the Bancorp minimizes through collateral 

arrangements, approvals, limits and monitoring procedures. For 

further information including the notional amount and fair values of 

these derivatives, see Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated 

Financial Statements. 
 Portfolio Loans and Leases and Interest Rate Risk 
Although the Bancorp™s portfolio
 loans and leases contain both 
fixed and floating/adjustable rate products, the rates of interest 

earned by the Bancorp on the outstanding balances are generally 

established for a period of time. The interest rate sensitivity of loans 

and leases is directly related to the 
length of time the rate earned is 
established. The following table 
summarizes the expected principal 
cash flows of the Bancorp™s portfolio loans and leases as of 
December 31, 2013.
TABLE 57: PORTFOLIO LOAN AND LEASE EXPECTED MATURITIES
               ($ in millions) 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-5 years  Over 5 years 
 Total 
     Commercial and industrial loans 
$ 18,523 
    19,785 
    1,008 
   39,316 
       Commercial mortgage loans 
  3,569 
    4,054 
    443 
   8,066 
       Commercial construction loans 
  457 
    557 
    25 
   1,039 
       Commercial leases 
  669 
    1,608 
    1,348 
   3,625 
   Subtotal - commercial loans and leases 
  23,218 
    26,004 
    2,824 
   52,046 
       Residential mortgage loans 
  2,160 
    4,298 
    6,222 
   12,680 
       Home equity 
  1,352 
    5,088 
    2,806 
   9,246 
       Automobile loans 
  4,684 
    7,104 
    196 
   11,984 
       Credit card 
  661 
    1,633 
    - 
   2,294 
       Other consumer loans and leases 
  312 
    51 
    1 
   364 
   Subtotal - consumer loans and leases 
  9,169 
    18,174 
    9,225 
   36,568 
   Total 
$ 32,387 
    44,178 
    12,049 
   88,614 
   Additionally, the following table displays a su
mmary of expected principal cash flows 
occurring after one year for both fixed an
d floating or adjustable rate loans, as of December 31, 2013:
              TABLE 58: PORTFOLIO LOAN AND LEASE PRINCIPAL CASH FLOWS OCCURING AFTER ONE YEAR
      Interest Rate 
($ in millions) 
 Fixed 
  Floating or Adjustable 
     Commercial and industrial loans 
$ 2,839 
 17,954 
       Commercial mortgage loans 
  1,167 
 3,330 
       Commercial construction loans 
  27 
 555 
       Commercial leases 
  2,956 
 - 
  Subtotal - commercial loans and leases 
  6,989 
 21,839 
       Residential mortgage loans 
  7,682 
 2,838 
       Home equity 
  951 
 6,943 
       Automobile loans 
  7,252 
 48 
       Credit card 
  694 
 939 
       Other consumer loans and leases 
  35 
 17 
  Subtotal - consumer loans and leases 
  16,614 
 10,785 
  Total 
$ 23,603 
 32,624 
    Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights and Interest Rate Risk 
The net carrying amount of the residential MSR portfolio was $967 
million and $697 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, 

respectively. The value of servic
ing rights can fluctuate sharply 
depending on changes in interest rates and other factors. Generally, 
as interest rates decline and loans 
are prepaid to take advantage of 
refinancing, the total value of existing servicing rights declines 

because no further servicing fees ar
e collected on repaid loans. The 
Bancorp maintains a non-qualifying hedging strategy relative to its 

mortgage banking activity in orde
r to manage a portion of the risk 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  78  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 associated with changes in the valu
e of its MSR portfolio as a result 
of changing interest rates. 
Mortgage rates increased during 2013 and decreased during 
2012. The increase in interest rates during 2013 caused modeled 
prepayment speeds to slow, which le
d to a recovery of $192 million 
in temporary impairment on servicing rights during the year ended 

December 31, 2013. The decrease in interest rates during 2012 

caused modeled prepayment speeds to increase, which led to $103 

million in temporary impairment on servicing rights during the year 

ended December 31, 2012. Servicing 
rights are deemed temporarily 
impaired when a borrower™s loan ra
te is distinctly higher than 
prevailing rates. Temporary impairment on servicing rights is 
reversed when the prevailing rates return to a level commensurate 
with the borrower™s loan rate. In addition to the mortgage servicing 

rights valuation, the Bancorp re
cognized net losses of $17 million 
and net gains of $66 million on its non-qualifying hedging strategy 

for the years ended 2013 and 2012, 
respectively. These amounts 
include net gains on securities related to the Bancorp™s non-

qualifying hedging strategy of $13 million and $3 million for 2013 

and 2012, respectively. The Bancorp may adjust its hedging strategy 
to reflect its assessment of the composition of its MSR portfolio, 
the cost of hedging and the anticipated effectiveness of the hedges 
given the economic environment. See Note 11 of the Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statemen
ts for further discussion on 
servicing rights and the instruments used to hedge interest rate risk 

on MSRs. 
 Foreign Currency Risk 
The Bancorp may enter into foreign exchange derivative contracts 

to economically hedge certain foreign denominated loans. The 

derivatives are classified as fr
ee-standing instruments with the 
revaluation gain or loss being recorded in other noninterest income 

in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The balance of the 

Bancorp™s foreign denominated loans at December 31, 2013 and 

2012 was $581 million and $549 million, respectively. The Bancorp 

also enters into foreign exchange contracts for the benefit of 
commercial customers involved in in
ternational trade to hedge their 
exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. The Bancorp has internal 

controls in place to help ensure ex
cessive risk is not being taken in 
providing this service to custo
mers. These controls include an 
independent determination of currency volatility and credit 

equivalent exposure on these contracts, counterparty credit 

approvals and country limits. LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT 

The goal of liquidity management is to provide adequate funds to 

meet changes in loan and lease demand, unexpected levels of 

deposit withdrawals and other cont
ractual obligations. Mitigating 
liquidity risk is accomplished by 
maintaining liquid assets in the 
form of investment securities, maintaining sufficient unused 
borrowing capacity in the debt markets and delivering consistent 
growth in core deposits. A summary of certain obligations and 

commitments to make future payments under contracts is included 

in Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
The Bancorp maintains a contingency funding plan that 
assesses the liquidity needs unde
r various scenarios of market 
conditions, asset growth and cred
it rating downgrades. The plan 
includes liquidity stress testing 
which measures various sources and 
uses of funds under the different scenarios. The contingency plan 
provides for ongoing monitoring of unused borrowing capacity and 

available sources of contingent liquidity to prepare for unexpected 

liquidity needs and to cover unanti
cipated events that could affect 
liquidity. 

 Sources of Funds The Bancorp™s primary sources of funds relate to cash flows from 
loan and lease repayments, payments from securities related to sales 
and maturities, the sale or securi
tization of loans and leases and 
funds generated by core deposits, in addition to the use of public 

and private debt offerings. Projected contractual maturities from loan and lease 
repayments are included in Ta
ble 57 of the Market Risk 
Management section of MD&A. Of th
e $18.6 billion of securities in 
the Bancorp™s available-for-sale an
d other portfolio at December 31, 
2013, $3.7 billion in principal and inte
rest is expected to be received 
in the next 12 months and an additional $2.0 billion is expected to 

be received in the next 13 to 24 months. For further information on 

the Bancorp™s securities portfolio
, see the Securities section of 
MD&A. Asset-driven liquidity is provided by the Bancorp™s ability to 
sell or securitize loans and leases. In order to reduce the exposure to 

interest rate fluctuations and to manage liquidity, the Bancorp has 
developed securitization and sale procedures for several types of 
interest-sensitive assets. A majority of the long-term, fixed-rate 

single-family residential mortgage loans underwritten according to 

FHLMC or FNMA guidelines are sold for cash upon origination. 
Additional assets such as certain ot
her residential mortgages, certain 
commercial loans, home equity loan
s, automobile loans and other 
consumer loans are also capable of 
being securitized or sold. For the 
years ended December 31, 2013 and 
2012, the Bancorp sold or 
securitized loans totaling $23.4 billi
on and $21.7 billion, respectively. 
For further information on the transfer of financial assets, see Note 
11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Core deposits have historically provided the Bancorp with a 
sizeable source of relatively stable and low cost funds. The 

Bancorp™s average core deposits and shareholders™ equity funded 

82% of its average total assets during both 2013 and 2012. In 

addition to core deposit funding, 
the Bancorp also accesses a variety 
of other short-term and long-term funding sources, which include 

the use of the FHLB system. Certificates of deposit carrying a 
balance of $100,000 or more and deposits in the Bancorp™s foreign 
branch located in the Cayman Islands are wholesale funding tools 

utilized to fund asset growth. Management does not rely on any one 

source of liquidity and manages av
ailability in response to changing 
balance sheet needs. As of December 31, 2013, $3.8 billion of debt or other 
securities were available for i
ssuance under the current Bancorp™s 
Board of Directors™ authorizations 
and the Bancorp is authorized to 
file any necessary registration st
atements with the SEC to permit 
ready access to the public securi
ties markets; however, access to 
these markets may depend on ma
rket conditions. Additionally, the 
Bancorp has approximately $40.8 
billion of borrowing capacity 
available through secured borrowi
ng sources including the FHLB 
and FRB. In February of 2013, the Bancorp™s banking subsidiary updated 
and amended its existing global ba
nk note program to increase the 
capacity from $20 billion to $25 
billion. On February 28, 2013, the 
Bank issued and sold, under its a
mended bank notes program, $1.3 
billion in aggregate principal amount of bank notes. On November 

20, 2013, the Bank issued and sold, under its amended bank notes 

program, $1.8 billion in aggregate 
principal amount of bank notes. 
The Bancorp has $21.5 billion of funding available for issuance 

under the global bank note program as of December 31, 2013. 
In March of 2013, the Bancorp r
ecognized an immaterial loss 
on the securitization and sale of certain automobile loans with a 
carrying amount of approximately $509 million. The Bancorp 

utilized a securitization trust to faci
litate the securitization process. 
The trust issued asset-backed secu
rities in the form of notes and 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  79  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 equity certificates, with varying levels of credit subordination and 
payment priority. The Bancorp does not hold any of the notes or 

equity certificates issued by the 
trust, and the investors in these 
securities have no credit recourse to the Bancorp™s assets for failure 

of debtors to pay when due.  
In August of 2013, the Bancorp 
transferred approximately $1.3 
billion in fixed-rate consumer automobile loans to a bankruptcy 

remote trust which was deemed to be a VIE. The Bancorp 

concluded that it is the primary beneficiary of the VIE and, 

therefore, has consolidated this VIE. The primary purposes for 

which the VIE was created were to i
ssue asset backed securities with 
varying levels of credit subordination and payment priority and to 

provide the Bancorp with access to li
quidity for its originated loans. 
The assets of the VIE are restrict
ed to the settlement of the notes 
and other obligations of the VIE. Third-party holders of the notes 

do not have recourse to the general assets of the Bancorp. 
 Liquidity Coverage Ratio and Net Stable Funding Ratio  
The BCBS™ key reform within the 
Basel III framework to strengthen 
international liquidity standards was the introduction of the LCR 

and NSFR. On January 7, 2013, the 
BCBS issued a final standard 
for the LCR applicable to large 
internationally active banking 
organizations, which would phase in the LCR beginning in 2015 

with full implementation in 2019. 
 The BCBS plans on introducing 
the NSFR final standard in the next two years. 
The BCBS™ LCR would promote the short-term resilience of a 
bank's liquidity profile by ensuring an adequate level of 

unencumbered high-quality liquid asse
ts that can be converted into 
cash easily and immediately in priv
ate markets to meet its liquidity 
needs within 30 calendar days. Fina
ncial institutions subject to the 
LCR generally would be expected to hold unencumbered high-

quality assets of at least 100% of net cash flows over the next 30 

calendar days upon full implementation in 2019.  The BCBS™ NSFR is intended to promote medium and long-
term funding of the assets and activities of financial institutions. 

This ratio would establish a mini
mum acceptable amount of stable 
funding based on the liquidity characteristics of a financial 
institution™s assets and activities over a one year horizon. 
Management is currently monitoring the progress of the BCBS™ 

work on the NSFR. 
Section 165 of the Dodd-Frank Act requires the FRB to 
establish enhanced liquidity standards for BHCs with total assets of 
$50 billion or greater. On Oct
ober 24, 2013, the U.S. Banking 
Agencies issued an NPR that would implement a LCR requirement 

that is generally consistent with
 the international LCR standards 
published by the BCBS for large 
internationally active banking 
organizations, generally those with $250 billion or more in total 
consolidated assets or $10 billion or more in on-balance sheet 
foreign exposure.  Additionally, a Modified LCR requirement was 

proposed for BHC™s with total consolidated assets of at least $50 

billion that are not large internationally active banking organizations, 

like Fifth Third. The Modified LCR requirement incorporates a 

shorter (21-calendar days) stress s
cenario for calculating total net 
cash outflows than the LCR™s 30 calendar day requirement. 

Therefore, the estimated net cash
 outflows for the Modified LCR 
generally would be 70% of the LCR™s estimated net cash outflows. 
The NPR™s transition period will begin on January 1, 2015 whereby 

LCR and Modified LCR entities mu
st comply with a minimum ratio 
of 80%. On January 1, 2016 and 2017, the minimum ratio would 

increase to 90% and 100%, respectively. The NPR was open for 

public comment until January 31, 2014. Management is currently 

reviewing the NPR and evaluating its impact upon the Bancorp™s 

Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 Credit Ratings 
The cost and availability of financing to the Bancorp are impacted 

by its credit ratings. A downgrade to the Bancorp™s credit ratings 

could affect its ability to access the credit markets and increase its 

borrowing costs, thereby adversely impacting the Bancorp™s 

financial condition and liquidity. Key factors in maintaining high 

credit ratings include a stable and diverse earnings stream, strong 

credit quality, strong capital ratios and diverse funding sources, in 
addition to disciplined liquidi
ty monitoring procedures. 
The Bancorp™s credit ratings ar
e summarized in Table 59. The 
ratings reflect the ratings agencies 
view on the Bancorp™s capacity to 
meet financial commitments. *  

 * As an investor, you should be aware that a security rating is not a 
recommendation to buy, sell or hold securiti
es, that it may be subject to revision 
or withdrawal at any time by the assi
gning rating organization and that each 
rating should be evaluated independ
ently of any other rating. Additional 
information on the credit rating ranking wi
thin the overall classification system is 
located on the website of each credit rating agency. 
 TABLE 59: AGENCY RATINGS
         As of February 24, 2014
 Moody's Standard and Poor's 
Fitch DBRS 
Fifth Third Bancorp: 
            Short-term 
No rating 
A-2 F1 R-1L 
    Senior debt 
Baa1 
BBB+ A AL     Subordinated debt 
Baa2 
BBB A- BBBH Fifth Third Bank: 
            Short-term 
P-2 A-2 F1 R-1L 
    Long-term deposit 
A3 No rating 
A+ A     Senior debt 
A3 A- A A     Subordinated debt 
Baa1 
BBB+ A- AL           CAPITAL MANAGEMENT  
Management regularly reviews the Bancorp™s capital levels to help 

ensure it is appropriately posi
tioned under various operating 
environments. The Bancorp has established a Capital Committee 

which is responsible for making capital plan recommendations to 

management. These recommendations are reviewed by the ERM 
Committee and the capital plan is approved by the board. The 
Capital Committee is responsible for execution oversight of the 

capital actions of the capital plan.  Capital Ratios 
The U.S banking agencies establis
hed quantitative measures that 
assign risk weightings to assets
 and off-balance sheet items and also 
define and set minimum regulatory
 capital requirements. The U.S. 
banking agencies define ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ ratios for Tier I and total 

risk-based capital as 6% and 10%, respectively. The Bancorp 
exceeded these ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ ratios for all periods presented. 
The Basel II advanced approach
 framework was finalized by 
U.S. banking agencies in 2007. Co
re banks, defined as those with 
consolidated total assets in excess of $250 billion or on balance 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  80  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 sheet foreign exposures of $10 billion were required to adopt the 
advanced approach effective April 1, 2008. The Bancorp does not 

meet these thresholds and, therefore, is not subject to the 

requirements of Basel II. The Dodd-Frank Act requires more stringent prudential 
standards, including capital and 
liquidity requirements, for larger 
institutions. It addresses the quality of capital components by 

limiting the degree to which certain hybrid instruments can be 

included. The Dodd-Frank Act will phase out the inclusion of 

certain TruPS as a component of Tier I risk-based capital when the 

Bancorp implements the revised regulatory capital rules known as 

Basel III. In December of 2010 and revised in June of 2011, the BCBS 
issued Basel III, a global regulatory framework, to enhance 

international capital standards. In June of 2012, U.S. banking 

regulators proposed enhancements to the regulatory capital 

requirements for U.S. banks, which implement aspects of Basel III, 

such as re-defining the regulator
y capital elements and minimum 
capital ratios, introducing regulat
ory capital buffers above those 
minimums, revising the agencies™ ru
les for calculating risk-weighted 
assets and introducing a new Tier I common equity ratio. In July of 
2013, U.S. banking regulators approved final enhanced regulatory 

capital requirements (Basel III Final Rule), which included 

modifications to the proposed rules. The Basel III Final Rule 

provides for certain banks, including the Bancorp, to opt out of 

including AOCI in Tier 1 capital and retain the treatment of 

residential mortgage exposures consistent with the current Basel I 

capital rules. The Basel III Final Ru
le will phase out the inclusion of 
certain TruPS as a component of Tier I capital. Under these 
provisions, these TruPS would qualify as a component of Tier II 

capital. At December 31, 2013 the Ba
ncorp™s Tier I capital included 
$60 million of TruPS representing approximately 5 bps of risk 

weighted assets. The Basel III Final Rule is effective for the 

Bancorp on January 1, 2015, subject
 to phase-in periods for certain 
of its components and other provisions. The Bancorp is in the 

process of evaluating the Basel III Final Rule and its potential 
impact. The Bancorp™s current estimate of the pro-forma fully 
phased in Tier I common equity ratio at December 31, 2013 under 

the Basel III Final Rule is approximately 8.99% compared with 

9.39% as calculated under the exis
ting Basel I capital framework. 
The primary drivers of the change from the existing Basel I capital 

framework to the Basel III Final Ru
le are an increase in Tier I 
common equity of approximately 75 bps (primarily from the 
elimination of the current 10% deduction of mortgage servicing 

rights from capital), which would be more than offset by the impact 

of increases in risk-weighted assets (primarily from the treatment of 
securitizations, mortgage servicing 
rights and commitments with an 
original maturity of one year or less). If the Bancorp elects to 

include AOCI components in capital, the December 31, 2013 pro 

forma Basel III Final Rule Tier 1 common ratio would be increased 

by approximately 7 bps. The pro-forma Tier I common equity ratio 

exceeds the proposed minimum Tier 
I common equity ratio of 7% 
comprised of a minimum of 4.5% 
plus a capital conservation buffer 
of 2.5%. The pro-forma Tier I common equity ratio does not 
include the effect of any mitigating actions the Bancorp may 
undertake to offset the impact of the proposed capital 

enhancements. Additionally, pursuant
 to the Basel III Final Rule, 
the minimum capital ratios as of Ja
nuary 1, 2015 will be 6% for the 
Tier I capital ratio, 8% for the total risk-based capital ratio and 4% 

for the Tier I capital to average consolidated assets (leverage ratio). 

For further discussion on the Basel I and Basel III Tier I common 

equity ratios, see the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of 
MD&A.  Market Risk Rule On June 7, 2012, banking agencies 
approved a final rule effective 
January 1, 2013, titled as ﬁRisk-Based Capital Guidelines: Market 

Risk,ﬂ to implement enhancements to the market risk framework 

adopted by the BCBS. The final rule, to which the Bancorp is 

subject, requires banking organiza
tions with significant trading 
activities to adjust their capita
l requirements to better account for 
the market risks of those activi
ties. The rule introduces new 
measures of market risk, establishe
s a charge related to stressed VaR 
for covered trading positions and 
replaces references to credit 
ratings in the market risk rules 
with alternative methodologies for 
assessing risk. The intention of the 
rule is to better capture positions 
for which the market risk capital rule is appropriate, reduce 

procyclicality in market risk capital requirements, enhance sensitivity 
to risks that are not adequately captured by the current regulatory 
methodologies and increase transparency through enhanced 

disclosures. Upon the adoption of the market risk final rule in the 

first quarter of 2013, the Bancorp™s Tier I and total risk-based 

capital ratios decreased 1 bp and ad
option had an immaterial impact 
to the Tier I common equity ratio.  
 TABLE 60: CAPITAL RATIOS
           As of December 31 ($ in millions)
   2013 
  2012 
 2011  
2010  
2009  
Average equity as a percent of average assets 
   11.56 
 %   11.65 
   11.41  
   12.22  
   11.36  
  Tangible equity as a percent of tangible assets
(a)    9.44 
      9.17 
   9.03  
   10.42  
   9.71  
  Tangible common equity as a percent of tangible assets
(a)    8.63 
      8.83 
   8.68  
   7.04  
   6.45  
                            Tier I capital 
$  12,094 
     11,685 
   12,503  
   13,965  
   13,428  
  Total risk-based capital 
   16,440 
      15,816 
   16,885  
   18,178  
   17,648  
  Risk-weighted assets
(b)    116,736 
      109,699 
   104,945  
   100,561  
   100,933  
                            Regulatory capital ratios:
                         Tier I risk-based capital 
   10.36 
 %   10.65 
   11.91  
   13.89  
   13.30  
  Total risk-based capital 
   14.08 
      14.42 
   16.09  
   18.08  
   17.48  
  Tier I leverage 
   9.64 
      10.05 
   11.10  
   12.79  
   12.34  
  Tier I common equity(a)    9.39 
      9.51 
   9.35  
   7.48  
   6.99  
  (a) For further information on these ratios, see the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of MD&A. 
(b) Under the banking agencies™ risk-based capital guidelines, assets 
and credit equivalent amounts of derivatives and off-balance 
sheet exposures are assigned to broad 
risk categories. The aggregate dollar 
amount in each risk category is multipli
ed by the associated risk weight of the 
category. The resulting weighted values are add
ed together resulting in the Banc
orp™s total risk-weighted assets. 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  81  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Preferred Stock Offering and Conversion 
As contemplated by the 2013 CCAR, on May 16, 2013 the Bancorp 
issued in a registered public offering 600,000 depositary shares, 

representing 24,000 shares of 5.10% fixed-to-floating rate non-

cumulative Series H perpetual pref
erred stock, for net proceeds of 
$593 million. Each preferred share has a $25,000 liquidation 
preference. The preferred stock accrues dividends, on a non-

cumulative semi-annual 
basis, at an annual rate of 5.10% through 
but excluding June 30, 2023, at which time it converts to a quarterly 

floating rate dividend of thr
ee-month LIBOR plus 3.033%. Subject 
to any required regulatory approval, the Bancorp may redeem the 

Series H preferred shares at its option in whole or in part, at any 

time on or after June 30, 2023 and ma
y redeem in whole, but not in 
part, following a regulatory capital event at any time prior to June 
30, 2023. The Series H preferred shares are not convertible into 

Bancorp common shares or any other securities.  

 On June 11, 2013, the Bancorp™s Board of Directors authorized 

the conversion into common stock, no par value, of all outstanding 

shares of the Bancorp™s 8.50% non-
cumulative convertible perpetual 
preferred stock, Series G, which shares are represented by 

depositary shares each representing
 1/250th of a share of Series G 
preferred stock, pursuant to the Amended Articles of Incorporation. 
The Articles grant the Bancorp the ri
ght, at its option, to convert all 
outstanding shares of Series G preferred stock if the closing price of 

common stock exceeded 130% of the applicable conversion price 

for 20 trading days within any peri
od of 30 consecutive trading days. 
The closing price of shares of common stock satisfied such 

threshold for the 30 trading days
 ended June 10, 2013, and the 
Bancorp gave the required notice of its exercise of its conversion 
right.  
 On July 1, 2013, the Bancorp converted the remaining 16,442 

outstanding shares of Series G preferred stock, which represented 

4,110,500 depositary shares, into sh
ares of Fifth Third™s common 
stock. Each share of Series G preferred stock was converted into 

2,159.8272 shares of common stock,
 representing a total of 
35,511,740 issued shares. The common shares issued in the 

conversion are exempt securities pu
rsuant to Section 3(a)(9) of the 
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, 
as the securities exchanged were 
exclusively with Bancorp™s exis
ting security holders where no 
commission or other remuneration 
was paid. Upon conversion, the 
depositary shares were delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select 

Market and withdrawn from the Exchange. 

 On December 9, 2013, the Bancorp issued, in a registered 

public offering, 18,000,000 deposit
ary shares, representing 18,000 
shares of 6.625% fixed-to-floatin
g rate non-cumulative Series I 
perpetual preferred stock, for net proceeds of $441 million. Each 
preferred share has a $25,000 liqui
dation preference. The preferred 
stock accrues dividends, on a non-cu
mulative quarterly basis, at an 
annual rate of 6.625% through bu
t excluding December 31, 2023, at 
which time it converts to a quarterly floating rate dividend of three-

month LIBOR plus 3.71%. Subject to any required regulatory 

approval, the Bancorp may redeem the Series I preferred shares at 

its option in whole or in part, at any time on or after December 31, 
2023 and may redeem in whole, but not in part, following a 
regulatory capital event at any ti
me prior to December 31, 2023. The 
Series I preferred shares are not convertible into Bancorp common 

shares or any other securities. 

 
Redemption of TruPS 

The Bancorp redeemed all $750 million of the outstanding TruPS 

issued by Fifth Third Capital Trust IV on December 30, 2013. 
These securities had a distribution rate of 6.50% and a scheduled 
maturity date of April 1, 2067. Purs
uant to the terms of the TruPS, 
the securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust IV were redeemable 

within ninety days of a Capital Treatment Event. The Bancorp 
determined that a Capital Treatment Event occurred upon the 
publication of a Final Rule regarding Regulatory Capital Rules 

jointly by the Federal Reserve System and the Office of the 

Comptroller of the Currency. The redemption price was $1,000 per 

security, which reflected 100% of the liquidation amount, plus 
accrued and unpaid distributions to the actual redemption date of 
$10 million. The Bancorp recognized an $8 million loss on the 

extinguishment of this debt within other noninterest expense in the 

Consolidated Statements of Income. 
 Dividend Policy and Stock Repurchase Program  
The Bancorp™s common stock dividend policy and stock repurchase 

program reflect its earnings outlook
, desired payout ratios, the need 
to maintain adequate capital levels
, the ability of its subsidiaries to 
pay dividends, the need to comply with safe and sound banking 

practices as well as meet regulat
ory requirements and expectations. 
The Bancorp declared dividends per common share of $0.47 and 

$0.36 during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, 

respectively.   
On November 6, 2012, the 
Bancorp entered into an 
accelerated share repurchase tr
ansaction with a counterparty 
pursuant to which the Bancorp purchased 7,710,761 shares, or 
approximately $125 million, of its outstanding common stock on 

November 9, 2012. The Bancorp repurchased the shares as part of 

its 100 million share repurchase pr
ogram announced in August of 
2012. As part of this transaction and all subsequent accelerated 

share repurchases, the Bancorp entered into a forward contract in 

which the final number of shares to be delivered at settlement of the 

accelerated share repurchase transaction will be based generally on a 
discount to the average daily volume-weighted average price of the 
Bancorp's common stock during the term of the Repurchase 

Agreement. The accelerated share repurchase was treated as two 

separate transactions (i) the acqui
sition of treasury shares on the 
acquisition date and (ii) a forward contract indexed to the Bancorp's 

stock. At settlement of the forward contract on February 12, 2013, 

the Bancorp received an additional 657,914 shares which were 

recorded as an adjustment to the basis in the treasury shares 
purchased on the acquisition date. 
Following the sale of a portion of the Bancorp™s shares of Class 
A Vantiv, Inc. common stock in 2012, the Bancorp entered into an 

accelerated share repurchase transaction on December 14, 2012 

with a counterparty pursuant 
to which the Bancorp purchased 
6,267,410 shares, or approximately 
$100 million, of its outstanding 
common stock on December 19, 2012. The Bancorp repurchased 

the shares of its common stock as part of its previously announced 
100 million share repurchase program in August of 2012. At 
settlement of the forward contract on February 27, 2013, the 

Bancorp received an additional 127,
760 shares which were recorded 
as an adjustment to the basis in the treasury shares purchased on the 

acquisition date. 
On January 28, 2013, the Bancorp entered into an accelerated 
share repurchase transaction with a counterparty pursuant to which 

the Bancorp purchased 6,953,028 shares, or approximately $125 
million of its outstanding common stock on January 31, 2013. The 
Bancorp repurchased the shares of its common stock as part of its 

August of 2012 Board approved
 100 million share repurchase 
program. This repurchase transaction concluded the $600 million of 

common share repurchases not objected to by the FRB in the 2012 

CCAR process. At settlement of the forward contract on April 5, 

2013, the Bancorp received an additi
onal 849,037 shares which were 
recorded as an adjustment to the basis in the treasury shares 
purchased on the acquisition date. 
As a result of the FRB™s non-obj
ection to the Bancorp™s capital 
plan under the 2013 CCAR process, on March 19, 2013, Fifth 

Third™s Board of Directors authorized the Bancorp to repurchase up 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  82  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 to 100 million shares of its outstanding common stock in the open 
market or in privately negotiated transactions, and to utilize any 

derivative or similar instrument to affect share repurchase 

transactions. This share repurchase authorization replaced the 
Board™s previous authorization. On May 21, 2013, the Bancorp entered into an accelerated 
share repurchase transaction with a counterparty pursuant to which 

the Bancorp purchased 25,035,519 shares, or approximately $539 

million, of its outstanding common stock on May 24, 2013. The 

Bancorp repurchased the shares of its common stock as part of its 

100 million share repurchase prog
ram previously announced on 
March 19, 2013. At settlement of the forward contract on October 
1, 2013, the Bancorp received an 
additional 4,270,250 shares which 
were recorded as an adjustment to the basis in the treasury shares 

purchased on the acquisition date. 
On November 13, 2013, the Bancorp entered into an 
accelerated share repurchase tr
ansaction with a counterparty 
pursuant to which the Bancorp purchased 8,538,423 shares, or 

approximately $200 million, of its outstanding common stock on 

November 18, 2013. The Bancorp repurchased the shares of its 
common stock as part of its Board approved 100 million share 
repurchase program previously announced on March 19, 2013. The 
Bancorp expects the settlement of the transaction to occur on or 

before February 28, 2014. On December 10, 2013, the Bancorp entered into an 
accelerated share repurchase tr
ansaction with a counterparty 
pursuant to which the Bancorp purchased 19,084,195 shares, or 

approximately $456 million, of its outstanding common stock on 

December 13, 2013. The Bancorp repurchased the shares of its 

common stock as part of its Board approved 100 million share 

repurchase program previously announced on March 19, 2013. The 

Bancorp expects the settlement of the transaction to occur on or 

before March 26, 2014. On January 28, 2014, the Bancorp entered into an accelerated 
share repurchase transaction with a counterparty pursuant to which 

the Bancorp purchased 3,950,705 shares, or approximately $99 

million, of its outstanding common stock on January 31, 2014. The 

Bancorp repurchased the shares of its common stock as part of its 

Board approved 100 million share repurchase program previously 

announced on March 19, 2013. The Bancorp expects the settlement 

of the transaction to occur on or before March 26, 2014. 
 TABLE 61: SHARE REPURCHASES
   For the years ended December 31
 2013 
 2012 
 2011  
Shares authorized for repurchase at January 1 
 63,046,682 
   19,201,518 
   19,201,518 
  Additional authorizations
(a)  45,541,057 
   86,269,178 
  -   Share repurchases
(b)
  (65,516,126)
   (42,424,014)
  -   Shares authorized for repurchase at December 31  
 43,071,613 
   63,046,682 
   19,201,518 
  Average price paid per share  
$ 18.80 
  $ 14.82 
  N/A    (a) In March 2013, the Bancorp announced that its Board of Directors had authorized management to purchase 100 million shares of th
e Bancorp™s common stock through the open market or in any 
private transaction. The authorization does 
not include specific price targets or an expiration date. This share repurchase aut
horization replaces the Board™s previous authorization pursuant to which 
approximately 54 million shares remained available for repurchase by the Bancorp. 
(b) Excludes 1,863,097
, 2,059,003 and 1,164,254 shares repurchased during 
2013
, 2012, and 2011, respectively, in connection with vari
ous employee compensation plans. These repurchases are not 
included in the calculation for average price paid and do not co
unt against the maximum number of shares that may yet be repurc
hased under the Board of Directors™ authorization. 
Stress Tests and CCAR The FRB issued guidelines known as CCAR, which provide a 

common, conservative approach to ensure BHCs, including the 

Bancorp, hold adequate capital to 
maintain ready access to funding, 
continue operations and meet their obligations to creditors and 

counterparties, and continue to serv
e as credit intermediaries, even 
in adverse conditions.  The CCAR process requires the submission 
of a comprehensive capital plan that assumes a minimum planning 

horizon of nine quarters under various economic scenarios.  
The mandatory elements of the capital plan are an assessment 
of the expected use and sources of capital over the planning 

horizon, a description of all planned capital actions over the 

planning horizon, a discussion of any expected changes to the 

Bancorp™s business plan that are lik
ely to have a material impact on 
its capital adequacy or liquidity, a detailed description of the 
Bancorp™s process for assessing capital adequacy and the Bancorp™s 

capital policy. The capital plan 
must reflect the revised capital 
framework that the FRB adopted in connection with the 

implementation of the Basel III accord, including the framework™s 

minimum regulatory capital ratios and transition arrangements. 
The FRB™s review of the capital plan will assess the 
comprehensiveness of the capital plan, the reasonableness of the 
assumptions and the analysis underlying the capital plan. 
Additionally, the FRB reviews the robustness of the capital 

adequacy process, the capital policy and the Bancorp™s ability to 

maintain capital above the minimum 
regulatory capital ratios as they 
transition to Basel III and above a Basel I Tier 1 common ratio of 5 

percent under baseline and stressful conditions throughout a nine-

quarter planning horizon.  
The FRB issued stress testing rules that implement section 
165(i)(1) and (i)(2) of the DFA. Large BHCs, including the Bancorp, 

are subject to the final stress testing rules. The rules require both 

supervisory and company-run stress tests, which provide forward-

looking information to supervisors to help assess whether 

institutions have sufficient capi
tal to absorb losses and support 
operations during adverse economic conditions.  
 In March of 2013, the FRB announced it had completed the 

2013 CCAR. For BHCs that proposed ca
pital distributions in their 
plan, the FRB either objected to the plan or provided a non-

objection whereby the FRB concurred with the proposed 2013 

capital distributions.  The FRB indi
cated to the Bancorp that it did 
not object to the following proposed capital actions for the period 

beginning April 1, 2013 and ending March 31, 2014:  
 Increase in the quarterly common stock dividend to $0.12 
per share;  
 Repurchase of up to $750 million in TruPS subject to the 
determination of a regulatory capital event and 

replacement with the issuance of a similar amount of Tier 

II-qualifying subordinated debt;  
 Conversion of the $398 million in outstanding Series G 
8.5% convertible preferred stock into approximately 35.5 
million common shares issued to the holders. If this 

conversion were to occur, the Bancorp would intend to 

repurchase common shares equivalent to those issued in 

the conversion up to $550 million in market value, and 

issue $550 million in preferred stock;  
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  83  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  Repurchase of common shares in an amount up to $984 
million, including any shares issued in a Series G preferred 

stock conversion; 
 Incremental repurchase of common shares in the amount 
of any after-tax gains from the sale of Vantiv, Inc stock; 
and  Issuance of an additional $500 million in preferred stock.  
 The capital plan also included the assumption that the Bancorp 

would issue approximately 3.5 million shares in restricted stock 

under employee compensation plans in 2013. The above potential 
capital actions are subject to Bo
ard approval and other factors 
including regulatory developments and market conditions. Actions 

consistent with the above proposed capital actions were 

substantially completed in 2013. 
The DFA requires that BHCs with over $50 billion in 
consolidated assets that particip
ated in the 2009 Supervisory Capital 
Assessment Program, including the Bancorp, conduct two stress 

tests each year. On May 13, 2013, the FRB launched the 2013 Mid-
Cycle Stress Tests, which was submitted to the FRB in July of 2013. 
The stress tests required the BHCs 
to develop their own baseline, 
adverse and severely adverse scen
arios to reflect its individual 
operations and risks. Each BHC was 
required to release its results 
under the severely adverse scenario, which the Bancorp disclosed on 

its website on September 24, 2013.    
The FRB launched the 2014 stress testing program and CCAR 
on November 1, 2013. The stress testing results and capital plan 
were submitted by the Bancorp to the FRB on January 6, 2014. 
The FRB expects to release summary results of the 2014 stress 
testing program and CCAR in March of 2014. The results will 

include supervisory projections of 
capital ratios, losses and revenues under the supervisory adverse and supervisory severely adverse 

scenarios. The FRB will also issue an objection or non-objection to 

each participating institution™s capital plan submitted under CCAR.  

Additionally, as a CCAR institution, Fifth Third is required to 
disclose its own estimates of results under the supervisory severely 
adverse scenario using the same c
onsistently applied capital actions 
noted above, and to provide informat
ion related to risks included in 
its stress testing; a summary desc
ription of the methodologies used; 
estimates of aggregate pre-provision net revenue, losses, provisions, 

and pro forma capital ratios at the end of the forward-looking 

planning horizon of at least nine 
quarters; and an explanation of the 
most significant causes of changes 
in regulatory capital ratios. These 
disclosures are required to be sent to the FRB and publicly disclosed 
by March 31, 2014.  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  84  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS  
In the ordinary course of business, the Bancorp enters into financial 
transactions to extend credit 
and various forms of commitments 
and guarantees that may be considered off-balance sheet 
arrangements. These transactions involve varying elements of 

market, credit and liquidity risk. Refer to Note 17 of the Notes to 

Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. A 

discussion of these transactions is as follows: 

 
Residential Mortgage Loan Sales 

Conforming residential mortgage loans sold to unrelated third 
parties are generally sold with re
presentation and warranty recourse provisions. Such provisions in
clude the loan™s compliance with 
applicable loan criteria, includ
ing certain documentation standards 
per agreements with unrelated third parties. Additional reasons for 

the Bancorp having to repurchase the loans include compliance with 

collateral appraisal standards, fraud 
related to the loan application 
and the rescission of mortgage insurance. Under these provisions, 

the Bancorp is required to repurcha
se any previously sold loan for 
which the representation or warranty of the Bancorp proves to be 
inaccurate, incomplete or misleading.  
During the fourth quarter of 2013, the Bancorp settled certain 
repurchase claims related to mortgage loans originated and sold to 

FHLMC prior to January 1, 2009 for $25 million after paid claim 

credits and other adjustments. The settlement removes the 

Bancorp™s responsibility to repurchase or indemnify FHLMC for 
representation and warranty violations on any loan sold prior to 
January 1, 2009 except in limited circumstances. 
As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Bancorp maintained 
reserves related to loans sold with representation and warranty 

recourse provisions totalin
g $44 million and $110 million, 
respectively, included in other liabilities in the Bancorp™s 

Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
During 2013 and 2012, the Bancorp paid $64 million and $34 
million, respectively, in the form of make whole payments and 
repurchased $89 million and $114 million, respectively, in 
outstanding principal of loans to 
satisfy investor demands. Total 
repurchase demand requests during 2013 and 2012 were $263 

million and $340 million, respective
ly. Total outstanding repurchase 
demand inventory was $46 million at December 31, 2013 compared 

to $67 million at December 31, 2012. The Bancorp sold certain residential mortgage loans in the 
secondary market with credit recourse. In the event of any customer 
default, pursuant to the credit recourse provided, the Bancorp is 
required to reimburse the third party. The maximum amount of 

credit risk in the event of nonperformance by the underlying 

borrowers is equivalent to the 
total outstanding balance. In the 
event of nonperformance, the Bancorp has rights to the underlying 

collateral value securing the loan. At December 31, 2013, the 

outstanding balances on these loans sold with credit recourse was 

$579 million compared to $662 million at December 31, 2012. The 
Bancorp maintained an estimated credit loss reserve on these loans 
sold with credit recourse of $16 million and $20 million at 

December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, included in other 

liabilities in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheets. To determine the 
credit loss reserve, the Bancorp used an approach that is consistent 

with its overall approach in esti
mating credit losses for various 
categories of residential mortgage lo
ans held in its loan portfolio.   
 Private Mortgage Insurance 
For certain mortgage loans originated by the Bancorp, borrowers 

may be required to obtain PMI provided by third-party insurers. In 

some instances, these insurers cede a portion of the PMI premiums 

to the Bancorp, and the Bancorp provides reinsurance coverage 

within a specified range of the total PMI coverage. The Bancorp™s 
reinsurance coverage typically ranges from 5% to 10% of the total 
PMI coverage.  
The Bancorp™s maximum exposure in the event of 
nonperformance by the underlying borrowers is equivalent to the 

Bancorp's total outstanding reinsurance coverage, which was $37 
million at December 31, 2013 and $58 million at December 31, 

2012. The Bancorp maintained a reserve, included in other liabilities 

in the Bancorp™s Consolidated B
alance Sheets, related to exposures 
within the reinsurance portfolio 
of $10 million as of December 31, 
2013 and $18 million as of December 31, 2012. In 2009, the 
Bancorp suspended the practice of providing reinsurance of private 
mortgage insurance for newly originated mortgage loans. In the 

second quarter of 2011, the Bancorp allowed one of its third-party 

insurers to terminate its reinsurance agreement with the Bancorp, 

resulting in the Bancorp releasin
g collateral to the insurer in the 
form of investment securities and other assets with a carrying value 

of $5 million, and the insurer assuming the Bancorp™s obligations 

under the reinsurance agreement, resulting in a decrease to the 
Bancorp™s reserve liability of $11 million and decrease in the 
Bancorp™s maximum exposure of $27 
million. In the fourth quarter 
of 2012, the Bancorp allowed one of its third-party insurers to 

terminate its reinsurance agreement with the Bancorp, resulting in 

the insurer assuming the Bancorp™s obligations under the 

reinsurance agreement, resulting in a decrease to the Bancorp™s 

reserve liability of $2 million and decrease in the Bancorp™s 

maximum exposure of $3 million. 
 Automobile Loan Securitization 

In March of 2013, the Bancorp recognized an immaterial loss on the 

securitization and sale of certain automobile loans with a carrying 

amount of approximately $509 million. The Bancorp utilized a 

securitization trust to facilitate th
e securitization process. The trust 
issued asset-backed s
ecurities in the form of notes and equity 
certificates, with varying levels of credit subordination and payment 
priority. The Bancorp does not hold any of the notes or equity 
certificates issued by the trust, an
d the investors in these securities 
have no credit recourse to the Banc
orp™s assets for failure of debtors 
to pay when due. As part of the sale, the Bancorp obtained servicing 

responsibilities and recognized a serv
icing asset with an initial fair 
value of $6 million. For further information on this automobile 

securitization, see Notes 10 and 11 of the Notes to Consolidated 

Financial Statements. 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  85  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER COMMITMENTS 
The Bancorp has certain obligations and commitments to make 
future payments under contracts. The aggregate contractual 

obligations and commitments at December 31, 2013 are shown in 
Table 62. As of December 31, 2013, the Bancorp has unrecognized 
tax benefits that, if recognized, wo
uld impact the effective tax rate 
in future periods. Due to the un
certainty of the amounts to be 
ultimately paid as well as the timing of such payments, all uncertain 
tax liabilities that have not been paid have been excluded from the 

Contractual Obligations and Other 
Commitments table. For further 
detail on the impact of income taxes see Note 20 of the Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 TABLE 62: CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER COMMITMENTS
      As of December 31, 2013 ($ in millions) 
 Less than 1 
year 1-3 years 3-5 years Greater than 5 years 
Total 
Contractually obligated payments due by period: 
          Deposits with a stated maturity of less than one year
(a) $89,174
 - 
 - 
 - 
89,174
     Time deposits
(c)    7,424
 1,902 
 720 
 55 
10,101
     Short-term borrowings
(e)
   1,664
 - 
 - 
 - 
1,664
     Long-term debt
(b)   157
4,617 
2,095 
2,764 
9,633
     Forward contracts related to held for sale mortgage loans
(d)   1,448
 - 
 - 
 - 
1,448
     Noncancelable lease obligations
(f)   91170 
 146 
 339 
746
     Partnership investment commitments
(g)   261
 103 
 22 
 21 
407
     Pension benefit payments
(i)   1834 
 29 
 63 
144
     Purchase obligations and capital expenditures
(h)   5230 
 24 
 11 
117
     Capital lease obligations 
 811 
 - 
 - 
19Total contractually obligated payments due by period 
$100,297
6,867 
3,036 
3,253 
113,453
Other commitments by expiration period 
                Commitments to extend credit
(j) $33,180
10,884 
17,937 
139 
62,140
     Letters of credit
(k)   1,899
1,969 
204 
57 
4,129
Total other commitments by expiration period 
$35,079
12,853 
18,141 
196 
66,269
(a) Includes demand, interest checking, savings, money market and 
foreign office deposits. For additional information, see the Depo
sits discussion in the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A. 
(b) In the banking industry, interest-bearing obligations are principal
ly used to fund interest-earning assets. As such, interest c
harges on contractual obligations were 
excluded from reported amounts, as 
the potential cash outflows would have corresponding cash inflows 
from interest-earning assets. S
ee Note 16 of the Notes to Con
solidated Financial Statements for additional information on these debt 
instruments. 
(c) Includes other time and certificates $100,000 and over. For addit
ional information, see the Deposits discussion in the Balance 
Sheet Analysis section of MD&A. 
(d) See Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for additional information on forward contracts to sell residenti
al mortgage loans. 
(e) Includes federal funds purchased and borrowings with an original 
maturity of less than one year. For additional information, se
e Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
(f) Includes rental commitments. 
(g) Includes low-income housing, historic tax investments and market
 tax credits. For additional information, see Note 10 of the No
tes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
(h) Represents agreements to purchase goods or services and includes 
commitments to various general contractors for work related to
 banking center construction. 
(i) See Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on pension obligations. 
(j) Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend, typically 
having fixed expiration dates or
 other termination clauses that 
may require payment of a fee. Many of
 the commitments to extend credit 
may expire without being drawn upon. The total commitment amount
s include capital commitments for private equity investments an
d do not necessarily represent future cash flow requirements. For 
additional information, see Note 17 of the No
tes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
(k) Letters of credit are conditional commitments issued to guarant
ee the performance of a customer to a third party. For additiona
l information, see Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements. 
   MANAGEMENT™S ASSESSMENT AS TO THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 
 86  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The Bancorp conducted an evaluation, under the supervision and wi
th the participation of the Bancorp™s management, including th
e Bancorp™s 
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effect
iveness of the design and operation of the Bancorp™s disclosu
re controls and 
procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the S
ecurities Exchange Act). Based on the foregoing, as of the e
nd of the period 
covered by this report, the Bancorp™s Chie
f Executive Officer and Chief Financial Offi
cer concluded that the Bancorp™s disclosu
re controls and 
procedures were effective, in all material re
spects, to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports the Ban
corp files and submits 
under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and re
ported as and when required and information is accumulated and 
communicated to management on a timely basis. 
The management of Fifth Third Bancorp is responsible for establis
hing and maintaining adequate in
ternal control, designed to pr
ovide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporti
ng and the preparation of financial statements for external 
purposes in accordance 
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United St
ates of America. The Bancorp™s management assessed the effectiven
ess of the 
Bancorp™s internal control over financial reporting as of Decemb
er 31, 2013. Management™s assessment is based on the criteria e
stablished in the 
1992 Internal Control Š Integrated Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizati
ons of the Treadway Commission and was designed 
to provide reasonable assurance that the Bancorp maintained 
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 
31, 2013. Based on 
this assessment, management believes that the Bancorp maintained
 effective internal control over financial reporting as of Dece
mber 31, 2013. 
The Bancorp™s independent registered public accounting firm, th
at audited the Bancorp™s consolidated financial statements inclu
ded in this annual 
report, has issued an audit report on our internal control over
 financial reporting as of December 31, 2013. This report appear
s on page 87 of the 
annual report. The Bancorp™s management also conducted an evaluation of internal 
control over financial reporting to determine whether any cha
nges 
occurred during the year covered by this report that have mate
rially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, t
he Bancorp™s internal 
control over financial reporting. Based on this evaluation, there has been no such chan
ge during the year covered by this repor
t.  
Kevin T. Kabat               Tayfun Tuzun 
Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer                    
             Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
February 24, 2014                           February 24, 2014 
    
 
 REPORTS OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  87  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Fifth Third Bancorp: 
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of
 Fifth Third Bancorp and subsidiaries (the ﬁBancorpﬂ) as of Dec
ember 31, 2013, 
based on criteria established in Internal Control Š Inte
grated Framework (1992)
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the 
Treadway Commission. The Bancorp's managemen
t is responsible for maintaining effectiv
e internal control over financial reportin
g and for its 
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financ
ial reporting, included in the accompanying Management™s Assessm
ent as to the 
Effectiveness of Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our re
sponsibility is to express an 
opinion on the Bancorp™s intern
al control over 
financial reporting based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Pu
blic Company Accounting Oversigh
t Board (United States). Those
 standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtai
n reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control ov
er financial 
reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit in
cluded obtaining an understanding of internal control over finan
cial reporting, 
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and 
evaluating the design and operati
ng effectiveness of internal c
ontrol based on the 
assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we consid
ered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit 
provides a 
reasonable basis for our opinion. 
A company™s internal control over financial reporting is a proces
s designed by, or under the supervision of, the company™s prin
cipal executive 
and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar fu
nctions, and effected by the company™s board of directors, ma
nagement, and other 
personnel to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial re
porting and the preparation of financial sta
tements for external 
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting princi
ples. A company™s internal control over financial reporting inc
ludes those policies 
and procedures that (1) pertain to the main
tenance of records that, in reasonable det
ail, accurately and fairly reflect the tra
nsactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable 
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to perm
it preparation of 
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounti
ng principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the com
pany are being 
made only in accordance with authorizations of management and 
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance re
garding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
 acquisition, use, or disposition of the 
company™s assets that could have a mater
ial effect on the 
financial statements.  
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over 
financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or imp
roper management 
override of controls, material misstatements due to error or frau
d may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, pr
ojections of any 
evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over fina
ncial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that
 the controls may 
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that th
e degree of compliance with the po
licies or procedures may deteri
orate. In our opinion, the Bancorp maintained, in 
all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of Dec
ember 31, 2013, 
based on the criteria established in Internal Control Š Integrated Framework (1992) 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the 
Treadway Commission.  
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Pu
blic Company Accounting Oversigh
t Board (United States), the co
nsolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2013 
of the Bancorp and our report dated February 24, 2014 expre
ssed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. 
 Cincinnati, Ohio 
February 24, 2014 To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Fifth Third Bancorp: 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
 Fifth Third Bancorp and subsidiaries (the ﬁBancorpﬂ) as of Dece
mber 31, 2013 
and 2012, and the related consolidated statements of income, compre
hensive income, equity, and cash flows for each of the three
 years in the 
period ended December 31, 2013. These consolidated financial stat
ements are the responsibility of the Bancorp™s management. Our
 responsibility 
is to express an opinion on these consolidat
ed financial statements based on our audits.  
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the 
Public Company Accounting Oversi
ght Board (United States). Thos
e standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
 reasonable assurance about whet
her the financial statements are 
free of material 
misstatement. An audit includes examining,
 on a test basis, evidence supporting the 
amounts and disclosures in the financial st
atements. An audit 
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and sign
ificant estimates made by manag
ement, as well as evaluating the 
overall financial 
statement presentation. We believe that our audi
ts provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  
In our opinion, such consolidated financ
ial statements present fairly, in all materi
al respects, the financial position of Fift
h Third Bancorp and subsidiaries at December 31, 2013 and 2012, and the results of th
eir operations and their cash flows for each of the three year
s in the period ended 
December 31, 2013, in conformity with accounting principles
 generally accepted in the United States of America.  
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Pu
blic Company Accounting Oversigh
t Board (United States), the Ba
ncorp™s 
internal control over financial reporting as of Decemb
er 31, 2013, based on the criteria established in 
Internal ControlŠIntegrated Framework (1992) 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Trea
dway Commission and our report dated February 24, 2014 expressed
 an 
unqualified opinion on the Bancorp's inte
rnal control over financial reporting.   Cincinnati, Ohio 

February 24, 2014 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
 88  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 As of December 31 ($ in mi
llions, except share data)
   2013 
2012 
Assets       Cash and due from banks
(a) $  3,178 
 2,441 
Available-for-sale and other securities
(b)    18,597 
 15,207 
Held-to-maturity securities
(c)    208 
 284 
Trading securities 
   343 
 207 
Other short-term investments 
   5,116 
 2,421 
Loans held for sale
(d)    944 
 2,939 
Portfolio loans and leases: 
      Commercial and industrial loans  
   39,316 
 36,038 
    Commercial mortgage loans
(a)    8,066 
 9,103 
    Commercial construction loans 
   1,039 
 698 
    Commercial leases  
   3,625 
 3,549 
    Residential mortgage loans
(e)    12,680 
 12,017 
    Home equity 
   9,246 
 10,018 
    Automobile loans
(a)    11,984 
 11,972 
    Credit card 
   2,294 
 2,097 
    Other consumer loans and leases 
   364 
 290 
Portfolio loans and leases 
   88,614 
 85,782 
Allowance for loan and lease losses
(a)    (1,582)
 (1,854)
Portfolio loans and leases, net 
   87,032 
 83,928 
Bank premises and equipment 
   2,531 
 2,542 
Operating lease equipment 
   730 
 581 
Goodwill 
   2,416 
 2,416 
Intangible assets 
   19 
 27 
Servicing rights 
   971 
 697 
Other assets(a)    8,358 
 8,204 
Total Assets
 $  130,443 
 121,894 
Liabilities   Deposits: 
      Demand 
$  32,634 
 30,023 
    Interest checking 
   25,875 
 24,477 
    Savings  
   17,045 
 19,879 
    Money market 
   11,644 
 6,875 
    Other time 
   3,530 
 4,015 
    Certificates - $100,000 and over 
   6,571 
 3,284 
    Foreign office and other 
   1,976 
 964 
Total deposits 
   99,275 
 89,517 
Federal funds purchased 
   284 
 901 
Other short-term borrowings 
   1,380 
 6,280 
Accrued taxes, interest and expenses 
   1,758 
 1,708 
Other liabilities
(a)    3,487 
 2,639 
Long-term debt
(a)    9,633 
 7,085 
Total Liabilities
    115,817 
 108,130 
Equity
   Common stock(f)    2,051 
 2,051 
Preferred stock(g)
    1,034 
 398 
Capital surplus 
   2,561 
 2,758 
Retained earnings 
   10,156 
 8,768 
Accumulated other comprehensive income 
   82 
 375 
Treasury stock(f)    (1,295)
 (634)
Total Bancorp shareholders™ equity 
   14,589 
 13,716 
Noncontrolling interests 
   37 
 48 
Total Equity
    14,626 
 13,764 
Total Liabilities and Equity
 $  130,443 
 121,894 
(a) At December 31, 2013
 and 2012, includes $
49 and $0 of cash and due from banks, 
$48
 and $50 of commercial mortgage loans, 
$ 1,010 
and $0 of automobile loans, 
$(15)
 and $(5) of 
ALLL, $13
 and $3 of other assets, 
$1 and $0 of other liabilities, 
$ 1,048 
and $0 of long-term debt from consolidated VIEs that 
are included in their respective captions. See Note 10. 
(b) Amortized cost of 
$18,409 
and $ 14,571 at 
December 31, 2013
 and 2012, respectively. 
(c) Fair value of 
$208 
and $284 at 
December 31, 2013
 and 2012, respectively.  
(d) Includes $890 
and $2,856 of residential mortgage loans held for sale measured at fair value at 
December 31, 2013
, and 2012, respectively. 
(e) Includes $92 
and $76
 of residential mortgage loans measured at fair value at 
December 31, 2013
 and 2012, respectively. 
(f) Common shares: Stated value $2.22 per share; authorized 2,000,000,000; outstanding at
 December 31, 2013 Œ 855,305,745 (excludes 68,586,836 treasury shares) 
and December 
31, 2012 Œ  882,152,057 (excludes  41,740,524 treasury shares). 
(g) 458,000 shares of undesignated no par value pr
eferred stock are authorized and unissued at
 December 31, 2013
;  fixed-to-floating rate non-cumulative 
Series H perpetual preferred stock with a 
$25,000 liquidation preference: 
24,000 
authorized,
 issued and outstanding at
 December 31, 2013
; fixed-to-floating rate non-cumulative Seri
es I perpetual preferred stock with a $25,000 
liquidation preference: 
18,000 
authorized, issued and outstanding at 
December 31, 2013 
and 8.5% non-cumulative Series G convertible (into 2,159.8272 common shares) perpetual preferred 
stock with a $25,000 liquidation preference: 46,000 authorized and 16,450
 issued and outstanding at December 31, 2012.  
 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
 89  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 For the years ended December 31 ($ 
in millions, except per share data)
 2013 
2012 
2011 
Interest Income
   Interest and fees on loans and leases 
$ 3,447 
 3,574 
 3,613 
Interest on securities 
 520 
 529 
 600 
Interest on other short-term investments 
 6 
 4 
 5 
Total interest income 
 3,973 
 4,107 
 4,218 
Interest Expense
 Interest on deposits 
 202 
 216 
 352 
Interest on other short-term borrowings 
 6 
 8 
 4 
Interest on long-term debt 
 204 
 288 
 305 
Total interest expense 
 412 
 512 
 661 
Net Interest Income
  3,561 
 3,595 
 3,557 
Provision for loan and lease losses 
 229 
 303 
 423 
Net Interest Income After Provision for Loan and Lease Losses
  3,332 
 3,292 
 3,134 
Noninterest Income
 Mortgage banking net revenue 
 700 
 845 
 597 
Service charges on deposits 
 549 
 522 
 520 
Corporate banking revenue 
 400 
 413 
 350 
Investment advisory revenue 
 393 
 374 
 375 
Card and processing revenue 
 272 
 253 
 308 
Other noninterest income 
 879 
 574 
 250 
Securities gains, net 
 21 
 15 
 46 
Securities gains, net - non-qualifying hedges on mortgage servicing rights 
 13 
 3 
 9 
Total noninterest income 
 3,227 
 2,999 
 2,455 
Noninterest Expense
 Salaries, wages and incentives 
 1,581 
 1,607 
 1,478 
Employee benefits  357 
 371 
 330 
Net occupancy expense 
 307 
 302 
 305 
Technology and communications 
 204 
 196 
 188 
Card and processing expense 
 134 
 121 
 120 
Equipment expense 
 114 
 110 
 113 
Other noninterest expense 
 1,264 
 1,374 
 1,224 
Total noninterest expense 
 3,961 
 4,081 
 3,758 
Income Before Income Taxes 
  2,598 
 2,210 
 1,831 
Applicable income tax expense  
 772 
 636 
 533 
Net Income 
  1,826 
 1,574 
 1,298 
Less: Net income attributab
le to noncontrolling interests 
 (10)
 (2)
 1 
Net Income Attributable to Bancorp
  1,836 
 1,576 
 1,297 
Dividends on preferred stock  
 37 
 35 
 203 
Net Income Available to Common Shareholders 
 $ 1,799 
 1,541 
 1,094 
Earnings Per Share
 $ 2.05 
 1.69 
 1.20 
Earnings Per Diluted Share
 $ 2.02 
 1.66 
 1.18 
Average common shares - basic 
  869,462,977 
 904,425,226 
 906,460,550 
Average common shares - diluted 
  894,736,445 
 945,554,102 
 949,545,420 
Cash dividends declared per common share 
 $ 0.47 
 0.36 
 0.28 
  See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
 90  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
  2013 
2012 
2011
Net income
 $ 1,826 
 1,574 
 1,298
Other comprehensive (loss) income, net of tax: 
         Unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities: 
           Unrealized holding (losses) gains on available-for-sale securities arising during the year 
  (295)
 (63)
 201
    Reclassification adjustment for net loss
es (gains) included in net income 
  4 
 (10)
 (37)
  Unrealized gains on cash flow hedge derivatives: 
           Unrealized holding (losses) gains on cash flow hedge derivatives arising during the year 
  (8)
 24 
 58
    Reclassification adjustment for ne
t gains included in net income 
  (29)
 (54)
 (45)
  Defined benefit pension plans: 
           Net actuarial gain (loss) arising during the year 
  25 
 (5)
 (33
)    Reclassification of amounts to net periodic benefit costs 
  10 
 13 
 12
Other comprehensive (loss) income 
   (293)
 (95)
 156
Comprehensive income 
  1,533 
 1,479 
 1,454
  Less: Comprehensive income attrib
utable to noncontrolling interests 
  (10)
 (2)
 1Comprehensive income attributable to Bancorp
 $ 1,543 
 1,481 
 1,453
        See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
 91  Fifth Third Bancorp 
     Bancorp Shareholders™ Equity 
                Accumulated 
  Total 
                Other   Bancorp 
Non- 
      Common 
PreferredCapital RetainedComprehensive
Treasury 
Shareholders™ 
Controlling
Total 
($ in millions, except per share data) 
  Stock Stock Surplus 
Earnings Income  
Stock Equity 
Interests 
Equity 
Balance at December 31, 2010
 $  1,779 
 3,654 
 1,715 
 6,719 
 314 
 (130)
 14,051
 29 
 14,080
Net income 
   1,297 
 1,297
 1 
 1,298
Other comprehensive income 
           156 
   156
 156
Cash dividends declared: 
      Common stock at $0.28 per share 
   (257)
 (257)
 (257)
    Preferred stock 
   (50)
 (50)
 (50)
Issuance of common stock 
   272 
   1,376 
 1,648
 1,648
Redemption of preferred shares, Series F 
   (3,408)
       (3,408)
   (3,408)
Redemption of stock warrant 
   (280)
 (280)
 (280)
Accretion of preferred dividends, Series F 
   153 
 (153)
 - -Impact of stock transactions under 
      stock compensation plans, net 
   (21)
 65 
 44
 44
Noncontrolling interest 
   - 21 
 21
Other    (1)
 2 
 (2)
 1 
 - (1)
 (1)
Balance at December 31, 2011
    2,051 
 398 
 2,792 
 7,554 
 470 
 (64)
 13,201
 50 
 13,251
Net income 
   1,576 
 1,576
 (2)
 1,574
Other comprehensive loss 
           (95)
 (95)
 (95)
Cash dividends declared: 
      Common stock at $0.36 per share 
   (325)
 (325)
 (325)
    Preferred stock 
   (35)
 (35)
 (35)
Shares acquired for treasury 
   (23)
 (627)
 (650)
 (650)
Impact of stock transactions under 
      stock compensation plans, net 
   (11)
 54 
 43
 43
Other    (2)
 3 
 1 1Balance at December 31, 2012
    2,051 
 398 
 2,758 
 8,768 
 375 
 (634)
 13,716
 48 
 13,764
Net income 
   1,836 
 1,836
 (10)
 1,826
Other comprehensive loss
    (293)
 (293)
 (293)
Cash dividends declared:
       Common stock at 
$0.47 per share
    (407)
 (407)
 (407)
    Preferred stock
    (37)
 (37)
 (37)
Shares acquired for treasury
    (78)
 (1,242)
 (1,320)
 (1,320)
Issuance of preferred stock
    1,034 
 1,034
 1,034
Redemption of preferred stock, Series G
    (398)
 (142)
 540 
 - -Impact of stock transactions under
       stock compensation plans, net
    22 
 38 
 60
 60
Other    1 
 (4)
 3 
 - (1)
 (1)
Balance at December 31, 2013 
$  2,051 
 1,034 
 2,561 
 10,156 
 82 
 (1,295)
 14,589
 37 
 14,626
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
   92  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
  2013 
2012 
2011 
Operating Activities
  Net income  
$ 1,826 
1,574 
1,298 
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net 
cash  provided by operating activities: 
   Provision for loan and lease losses 
  229 
303 
423 
  Depreciation, amortization and accretion 
  507 
531 
455 
  Stock-based compensation expense 
  78 
69 
59 
  Provision for deferred income taxes 
  253 
271 
437 
  Securities gains 
  (199)
(69)
(58)
  Securities gains Œ non-qualifying hedges on mortgage servicing rights 
 (13)(10)
(24)
  Securities losses 
  178 
54 
12 
  Securities losses Œ non-qualifying hedg
es on mortgage servicing rights 
  - 
7  15 
  (Recovery of) provision for MSR impairment 
  (192)
103 
242 
  Net gains on sales of loans and fair value adjustments on loans held for sale 
  (372)
(278)
(145)
  Bank premises and equipment impairment  
  6 
 21 
 - 
  Capitalized servicing rights 
  (250)
(305)
(236)
  Loss on extinguishment of debt 
 8 
 169 
 - 
Proceeds from sales of loans held for sale 
  22,047 
22,044 
14,783 
Loans originated for sale, net of repayments 
  (19,003)
(21,439)
(15,199)
Dividends representing return on equity method investments 
  54 
45 
13 
Gain on sales of Vantiv, Inc. shares and Vantiv, Inc. IPO 
  (336)
 (272)
 - 
Net change in:
    Trading securities 
  (131)
(28)
115 
  Other assets 
 (672)4 (67)
  Accrued taxes, interest and expenses 
  8 
1 79 
  Other liabilities 
  569 
(238)
164 
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
   4,595 
2,557 
2,366 
Investing Activities
  Sales: 
   Available-for-sale securities 
  9,328 
2,521 
2,471 
  Loans   657 
275 
371 
  Disposal of bank premises and equipment 
  33 
13 
35 
Repayments / maturities: 
   Available-for-sale securities 
  3,191 
4,100 
3,502 
  Held-to-maturity securities 
  74 
36 
29 
Purchases: 
   Available-for-sale securities 
  (16,216)
(6,813)
(5,689)
  Bank premises and equipment 
  (274)
(362)
(319)
Proceeds from sales and dividends representi
ng return of equity method investments 
  674 
393 
63 
Net change in: 
   Other short-term investments 
  (2,695)
(640)
(267)
  Loans and leases 
  (4,750)
(5,930)
(5,422)
  Operating lease equipment 
  (206)
(126)
(59)
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities
   (10,184)
(6,533)
(5,285)
Financing Activities
  Net change in: 
   Core deposits 
  6,550 
3,529 
5,264 
  Certificates - $100,000 and over, including foreign office and other 
  3,208 
279 
(1,202)
  Federal funds purchased 
  (618)
555 
67 
  Other short-term borrowings 
  (4,900)
3,041 
1,665 
Dividends paid on common stock 
  (393)
(309)
(192)
Dividends paid on preferred stock 
  (37)
(35)
(50)
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 
  5,044 
523 
1,500 
Repayment of long-term debt 
  (2,225)
(3,159)
(1,607)
Repurchases of treasury shares and related forward contracts 
  (1,320)
 (650)
 - 
Issuance of common stock
   - 
 - 
 1,648 
Issuance of preferred stock 
  1,034 
 - 
 - 
Redemption of preferred stock, Series F 
  - 
 - 
 (3,408)
Redemption of stock warrant 
  - 
 - 
 (280)
Capital contributions from noncontrolling interests 
  - 
 - 
21 
Other   (17)
(20)
 (3)
Net Cash Provided By Financing Activities
   6,326 
3,754 
3,423 
Increase (Decrease) in Cash and Due from Banks
   737 
 (222)
 504 
Cash and Due from Banks at Beginning of Period
   2,441 
2,663 
2,159 
Cash and Due from Banks at End of Period
 $ 3,178 
2,441 
2,663 
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 2 contains 
cash payments related to interest and income taxes in addition 
to noncash investing and financing activities.  
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 93  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING POLICIES 
Nature of Operations 
Fifth Third Bancorp, an Ohio cor
poration, conducts its principal 
lending, deposit gathering, transaction processing and service 

advisory activities through its 
banking and non-banking subsidiaries 
from banking centers located throughout the Midwestern and 
Southeastern regions of the United States. 
 Basis of Presentation 
The Consolidated Financial Statements
 include the accounts of the 
Bancorp and its majority-owned su
bsidiaries and VIEs in which the 
Bancorp has been determined to be the primary beneficiary. Other 
entities, including certain joint ventures, in which the Bancorp has 

the ability to exercise significan
t influence over operating and 
financial policies of the investee, but upon which the Bancorp does 

not possess control, are accounted for by the equity method and not 

consolidated. The investments in
 those entities in which the 
Bancorp does not have the ability to exercise significant influence 

are generally carried at the lower of cost or fair value. Intercompany 
transactions and balances have been eliminated.   Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. 
GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions 

that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and 
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those 
estimates.  Cash and Due From Banks 
Cash and due from banks consist of currency and coin, cash items 

in the process of collection and due from banks. Currency and coin 
includes both U.S. and foreign currency owned and held at Fifth 
Third offices and that is in-transit
 to the FRB. Cash items in the 
process of collection include checks and drafts that are drawn on 

another depository institution or the FRB that are payable 

immediately upon presentation in the U.S. Balances due from banks 

include non-interest bearing balances that are funds on deposit at 

other depository institutions or the FRB. 
 Securities 
Securities are classified as held-to-maturity, available-for-sale or 

trading on the date of purchase. Only those securities which 

management has the intent and ability to hold to maturity are 

classified as held-to-maturity and reported at amortized cost. 

Securities are classified as avail
able-for-sale when, in management™s 
judgment, they may be sold in response to, or in anticipation of, 
changes in market conditions. Secu
rities are classified as trading 
when bought and held principally 
for the purpose of selling them in 
the near term. Available-for-sale secu
rities are reported at fair value 
with unrealized gains and losses, net of related deferred income 

taxes, included in other comprehe
nsive income. Trading securities 
are reported at fair value with un
realized gains and losses included 
in noninterest income. The fair valu
e of a security is determined 
based on quoted market prices. If 
quoted market prices are not 
available, fair value is determined based on quoted prices of similar 

instruments or discounted cash flow
 models that incorporate market 
inputs and assumptions includin
g discount rates, prepayment 
speeds, and loss rates. Realized 
securities gains or losses are 
reported within noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements 

of Income. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific 

identification method.  
Available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities with 
unrealized losses are reviewed quarterly for possible OTTI. For debt 

securities, if the Bancorp intends to sell the debt security or will 

more likely than not be required to sell the debt security before 

recovery of the entire amortized cost basis, then an OTTI has 
occurred. However, even if the Banc
orp does not intend to sell the 
debt security and will not likely be required to sell the debt security 
before recovery of its entire amortized cost basis, the Bancorp must 

evaluate expected cash flows to be received and determine if a credit 

loss has occurred. In the event of a credit loss, the credit component 

of the impairment is recognized 
within noninterest income and the 
non-credit component is recognized through other comprehensive 

income. For equity securities, th
e Bancorp™s management evaluates 
the securities in an unrealized lo
ss position in the available-for-sale 
portfolio for OTTI on the basis of the duration of the decline in 
value of the security and severity
 of that decline as well as the 
Bancorp™s intent and ability to hold these securities for a period of 

time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in the market 

value. If it is determined that th
e impairment on an equity security is 
other than temporary, an impair
ment loss equal to the difference 
between the carrying value of the 
security and its fair value is 
recognized within noninterest income.  
 Portfolio Loans and Leases Basis of Accounting 
Portfolio loans and leases are ge
nerally reported at the principal 
amount outstanding, net of unearned income, deferred loan fees 

and costs, and any direct prin
cipal charge-offs. Direct loan 
origination fees and costs are deferred and the net amount is 
amortized over the estimated life of the related loans as a yield 

adjustment. Interest income is r
ecognized based on the principal 
balance outstanding computed using the effective interest method.  
Loans acquired by the Bancorp through a purchase business 
combination are recorded at fair value as of the acquisition date. 

The Bancorp does not carry over the acquired company™s ALLL, 

nor does the Bancorp add to its existing ALLL as part of purchase 
accounting. Purchased loans are evaluated for evidence of credit 
deterioration at acquisition and recorded at their initial fair value. 

For loans acquired with no evidence of credit deterioration, the fair 

value discount or premium is amortized over the contractual life of 

the loan as an adjustment to yiel
d. For loans acquired with evidence 
of credit deterioration, the Bancorp determines at the acquisition 

date the excess of the loan™s cont
ractually required payments over all 
cash flows expected to be collected 
as an amount that should not be 
accreted into interest income (nonaccretable difference). The 

remaining amount representing the 
difference in the expected cash 
flows of acquired loans and the 
initial investment in the acquired 
loans is accreted into interest in
come over the remaining life of the 
loan or pool of loans (accretable yi
eld). Subsequent to the purchase 
date, increases in expected cash 
flows over those expected at the 
purchase date are recognized prospectively as interest income over 
the remaining life of the loan. The present value of any decreases in 
expected cash flows resulting directly from a change in the 

contractual interest rate are recognized prospectively as a reduction 

of the accretable yield. The present value of any decreases in 

expected cash flows after the purcha
se date as a result of credit 
deterioration is recognized by recording an ALLL or a direct charge-
off. Subsequent to the purchase date, the methods utilized to 

estimate the required ALLL are si
milar to originated loans. Loans 
carried at fair value, mortgage loans held for sale and loans under 
revolving credit agreements are ex
cluded from the scope of this 
guidance on loans acquired with deteriorated credit quality.  
The Bancorp™s lease portfolio consists of both direct financing 
and leveraged leases. Direct financing leases are carried at the 

aggregate of lease payments plus estimated residual value of the 

leased property, less unearned income. Interest income on direct 

financing leases is recognized over the term of the lease to achieve a 
constant periodic rate of return on the outstanding investment. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  94  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Leveraged leases are carried at the aggregate of lease payments (less 
nonrecourse debt payments) plus es
timated residual value of the 
leased property, less unearned income. Interest income on leveraged 

leases is recognized over the term 
of the lease to achieve a constant 
rate of return on the outstanding 
investment in the lease, net of the 
related deferred income tax liability,
 in the years in which the net 
investment is positive.  Nonaccrual Loans 

When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, the accrual of interest, 

amortization of loan premium, a
ccretion of loan discount, and 
amortization/accretion of deferred net loan fees are discontinued 

and all previously accrued and unp
aid interest is charged against 
income. Commercial loans are pla
ced on nonaccrual status when 
there is a clear indication that the borrower™s cash flows may not be 
sufficient to meet payments as they 
become due. Such loans are also 
placed on nonaccrual status when the principal or interest is past 

due 90 days or more, unless the loan
 is both well secured and in the 
process of collection. The Bancor
p classifies residential mortgage 
loans that have principal and in
terest payments that have become 
past due 150 days as nonaccrual unless the loan is both well secured 

and in the process of collection. Residential mortgage loans may 

stay on nonperforming status for an extended time as the 
foreclosure process typically lasts 
longer than 180 days. During the 
fourth quarter of 2013, the Banc
orp modified its nonaccrual policy 
for home equity loans and lines of
 credit. Home equity loans and 
lines of credit are reported on nonaccrual status if principal or 

interest has been in default for 90 days or more unless the loan is 

both well secured and in the process of collection. Home equity 

loans and lines of credit that have
 been in default for 60 days or 
more are also reported on nonaccrual status if the senior lien has 
been in default 120 days or more, unless the loan is both well 
secured and in the process of 
collection. Residential mortgage, 
home equity, automobile and other 
consumer loans and leases that 
have been modified in a TDR and 
subsequently become past due 90 
days are placed on nonaccrual status unless the loan is both well 

secured and in the process of collection. Commercial and credit card 

loans that have been modified in 
a TDR are classified as nonaccrual 
unless such loans have sustained repayment performance of six 
months or greater and are reasonably assured of repayment in 
accordance with the restructured terms. Well secured loans are 

collateralized by perfected security interests in real and/or personal 

property for which the Bancorp estimates proceeds from sale would 

be sufficient to recover the outstanding principal and accrued 

interest balance of the loan and pa
y all costs to sell the collateral. 
The Bancorp considers a loan in the process of collection if 

collection efforts or legal action is proceeding and the Bancorp 
expects to collect funds sufficien
t to bring the loan current or 
recover the entire outstanding 
principal and accrued interest 
balance.  Nonaccrual commercial loans, othe
r than those modified in a 
TDR and nonaccrual credit card loan
s, are generally accounted for 
on the cost recovery method. The Bancorp believes the cost 

recovery method is appropriate for nonaccrual commercial loans 

and nonaccrual credit card loans because the assessment of 
collectability of the remaining reco
rded investment of these loans 
involves a high degree of subject
ivity and uncertainty due to the 
nature or absence of underlying 
collateral. Under the cost recovery 
method, any payments received are applied to reduce principal. 

Once the entire recorded investment is collected, additional 

payments received are treated as recoveries of amounts previously 

charged-off until recovered in full,
 and any subsequent payments are 
treated as interest income. Nonaccrual residential mortgage loans 
and other nonaccrual consumer loans are generally accounted for on 
the cash basis method. The Bancorp believes the cash basis method 
is appropriate for nonaccrual residential mortgage and other 
nonaccrual consumer loans because such loans have generally been 

written down to estimated collater
al values and the collectability of 
the remaining investment involves 
only an assessment of the fair 
value of the underlying collateral, which can be measured more 
objectively with a lesser degree of uncertainty than assessments of 

typical commercial loan collateral. Under the cash basis method, 

interest income is recognized upon cash receipt to the extent to 

which it would have been accrued 
on the loan's remaining balance at 
the contractual rate. Nonaccrual lo
ans may be returned to accrual 
status when all delinquent intere
st and principal payments become 
current in accordance with the loan
 agreement or when the loan is 
both well-secured and in the process of collection.  
Commercial loans on nonaccrual status, including those 
modified in a troubled debt rest
ructuring, as well as criticized 
commercial loans with aggregate borrower relationships exceeding 

$1 million, are subject to an individual review to identify charge-

offs. The Bancorp does not have an established delinquency 

threshold for partially or fully charging off commercial loans. 

Residential mortgage loans and credit card loans that have principal 
and interest payments that have become past due 180 days are 
assessed for a charge-off to the ALLL, unless such loans are both 

well-secured and in the process of collection. The Bancorp modified 

its charge-off policy for home equity 
loans and lines of credit in the 
fourth quarter of 2013 to assess fo
r a charge-off to the ALLL when 
such loans or lines of credit have become past due 120 days if the 

senior lien is also 120 days past due, unless such loans are both well-

secured and in the process of collection. Automobile and other 
consumer loans and leases that ha
ve principal and interest payments 
that have become past due 120 days are assessed for a charge-off to 

the ALLL, unless such loans ar
e both well-secured and in the 
process of collection. 
 Restructured Loans 
A loan is accounted for as a TDR if the Bancorp, for economic or 

legal reasons related to the borrowe
r™s financial difficulties, grants a 
concession to the borrower that it would not otherwise consider. A 

TDR typically involves a modification of terms such as a reduction 

of the stated interest rate or face 
amount of the loan, a reduction of 
accrued interest, or an extension of the maturity date(s) at a stated 
interest rate lower than the current market rate for a new loan with 

similar risk. During the third quarter of 2012, the OCC, a national 

bank regulatory agency, issued interpretive guidance that requires 

non-reaffirmed loans included in Chapter 7 bankruptcy filings to be 

accounted for as nonperforming TDRs and collateral dependent 

loans regardless of their payment history and capacity to pay in the 

future. The Bancorp™s banking subsidiary is a state chartered bank 
which therefore is not subject to guidance of the OCC. The 
Bancorp does not consider the bankruptcy court™s discharge of the 

borrower™s debt a concession when the discharged debt is not 

reaffirmed, and as such these loans are classified as TDRs only if 

one or more of the previously mentioned concessions are granted.  
The Bancorp measures the impairment loss of a TDR based on 
the difference between the original 
loan™s carrying amount and the 
present value of expected future
 cash flows discounted at the 
original, effective yield of the loan. Residential mortgage loans, 
home equity loans, automobile 
loans and other consumer loans 
modified as part of a TDR are maintained on accrual status, 

provided there is reasonable assurance of repayment and of 

performance according to the modified terms based upon a current, 

well-documented credit evaluati
on. Commercial loans and credit 
card loans modified as part of a TDR are maintained on accrual 

status provided there is a sustained payment history of six-months 
or greater prior to the modification in accordance with the modified 
terms and all remaining contractual payments under the modified 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 95  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 terms are reasonably assured of collection. TDRs of commercial 
loans and credit cards that do not have a sustained payment history 

of six months or greater in accordance with their modified terms 
remain on nonaccrual status unt
il a six-month payment history is sustained. During the nonaccrual 
period, TDRs of commercial loans 
are accounted for using the cash basis method for income 

recognition, provided that full
 repayment of principal under the 
modified terms of the loan is reasonably assured.   

 
Impaired Loans 

A loan is considered to be impaired when, based on current 
information and events, it is probable that the Bancorp will be 
unable to collect all amounts due (including both principal and 

interest) according to the contract
ual terms of the loan agreement. 
Impaired loans generally consist of nonaccrual loans and leases, 

loans modified in a TDR and loans over $1 million that are 

currently on accrual status and not yet modified in a TDR, but for 

which the Bancorp has determined that it is probable that it will 

grant a payment concession in the near term due to the borrower™s 
financial difficulties. For loans modified in a TDR, the contractual 
terms of the loan agreement refer to the terms specified in the 

original loan agreement. A loan rest
ructured in a TDR is no longer 
considered impaired in years 
after the restructuring if the 
restructuring agreement specifies a rate equal to or greater than the 

rate the Bancorp was willing to accept at the time of the 

restructuring for a new loan with 
comparable risk and the loan is 
not impaired based on the terms specified by the restructuring 
agreement. Refer to the ALLL section for discussion regarding the 
Bancorp™s methodology for identifying impaired loans and 

determination of the need for a loss accrual. 
 Loans Held for Sale 
Loans held for sale primarily re
present conforming fixed rate 
residential mortgage loans originated
 or acquired with the intent to 
sell in the secondary market and 
jumbo residential mortgage loans, 
commercial loans and other consumer loans that management has 
the intent to sell. Loans held for s
ale may be carried at the lower of 
cost or fair value, or carried at
 fair value where the Bancorp has 
elected the fair value option of accounting under U.S. GAAP. The 

Bancorp has elected to measure residential mortgage loans 

originated as held for sale under 
the fair value option. For loans in 
which the Bancorp has not elected the fair value option, the lower 
of cost or fair value is determin
ed at the individual loan level. 
The fair value of residential mortgage loans held for sale is 
estimated based upon mortgage-backe
d securities prices and spreads 
to those prices or, for certain ARM loans, discounted cash flow 

models that may incorporate the an
ticipated portfolio composition, 
credit spreads of asset-backed securities with similar collateral, and 

market conditions. The anticipate
d portfolio composition includes 
the effects of interest rate spreads and discount rates due to loan 
characteristics such as the state in which the loan was originated, the 

loan amount and the ARM margin. These fair value marks are 

recorded as a component of noninterest income in mortgage 

banking net revenue. The Bancorp generally has commitments to 

sell residential mortgage loans held for sale in the secondary market. 

Gains or losses on sales are recognized in mortgage banking net 

revenue upon delivery. 
Management™s intent to sell residential mortgage loans 
classified as held for sale may change over time due to such factors 

as changes in the overall liquidity in markets or changes in 

characteristics specific to certain 
loans held for sale. Consequently, 
these loans may be reclassified to
 loans held for investment and, 
thereafter, reported within the Ba
ncorp™s residential mortgage class 
of portfolio loans and leases. In such cases, the residential mortgage 

loans will continue to be measured at
 fair value, which is based on 
mortgage-backed securities prices, in
terest rate risk and an internally 
developed credit component.  
Loans held for sale are placed
 on nonaccrual status consistent 
with the Bancorp™s nonaccrual policy 
for portfolio loans and leases.  
 Other Real Estate Owned 
OREO, which is included in other assets, represents property 
acquired through foreclosure or ot
her proceedings and is carried at 
the lower of cost or fair value, less costs to sell. All OREO property 
is periodically evaluated for imp
airment and decreases in carrying 
value are recognized as reductions
 in other noninterest income in 
the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
 ALLL 
The Bancorp disaggregates its por
tfolio loans and leases into 
portfolio segments for purposes of determining the ALLL. The 
Bancorp™s portfolio segments include commercial, residential 

mortgage, and consumer. The Banc
orp further disaggregates its 
portfolio segments into classes for purposes of monitoring and 

assessing credit quality based on certain risk characteristics. Classes 

within the commercial portfolio 
segment include commercial and 
industrial, commercial mortgage owner-occupied, commercial 

mortgage non-owner occupied, commercial construction, and 
commercial leasing. The residential 
mortgage portfolio segment is 
also considered a class. Classes within the consumer portfolio 

segment include home equity, automobile, credit card, and other 

consumer loans and leases. For an
 analysis of the Bancorp™s ALLL 
by portfolio segment and credit 
quality information by class, see 
Note 6.  
The Bancorp maintains the ALLL to absorb probable loan and 
lease losses inherent in its portfolio segments. The ALLL is 
maintained at a level the Bancorp considers to be adequate and is 
based on ongoing quarterly assessments and evaluations of the 

collectability and historical loss experience of loans and leases. 

Credit losses are charged and recoveries are credited to the ALLL. 

Provisions for loan and lease losses are based on the Bancorp™s 

review of the historical credit lo
ss experience and such factors that, 
in management™s judgment, deserve consideration under existing 

economic conditions in estimating probable credit losses. The 
Bancorp™s strategy for credit risk management includes a 
combination of conservative exposure limits significantly below 

legal lending limits and conserva
tive underwriting, documentation 
and collections standards. The strategy also emphasizes 

diversification on a geographic, indu
stry and customer level, regular 
credit examinations and quarte
rly management reviews of large 
credit exposures and loans experi
encing deterioration of credit 
quality.  
The Bancorp™s methodology for determining the ALLL is 
based on historical loss rates, current credit grades, specific 

allocation on loans modified in a TDR and impaired commercial 

credits above specified thresholds and other qualitative adjustments. 

Allowances on individual commerc
ial loans, TDRs and historical 
loss rates are reviewed quarterly and adjusted as necessary based on 

changing borrower and/or collat
eral conditions and actual 
collection and charge-off experience. An unallocated allowance is 
maintained to recognize the imprecision in estimating and 
measuring losses when evaluating allowances for individual loans or 

pools of loans.  
Larger commercial loans included
 within aggregate borrower 
relationship balances exceeding $1 
million that exhibit probable or 
observed credit weaknesses, as well as loans that have been 

modified in a TDR, are subject to
 individual review for impairment. 
The Bancorp considers the current value of collateral, credit quality 
of any guarantees, the guaranto
r™s liquidity and willingness to 
cooperate, the loan structure, an
d other factors when evaluating 
whether an individual loan is impaired. Other factors may include 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  96  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 the industry and geographic region of the borrower, size and 
financial condition of the borrower, cash flow and leverage of the 

borrower, and the Bancorp™s evaluation of the borrower™s 

management. When individual lo
ans are impaired, allowances are 
determined based on management™s estimate of the borrower™s 
ability to repay the loan given the availability of collateral and other 

sources of cash flow, as well as an evaluation of legal options 

available to the Bancorp. Allo
wances for impaired loans are 
measured based on the present value 
of expected future cash flows 
discounted at the loan™s effective interest rate, fair value of the 

underlying collateral or readily obs
ervable secondary market values. 
The Bancorp evaluates the collectability of both principal and 
interest when assessing the need for a loss accrual.   
Historical credit loss rates are 
applied to commercial loans that 
are not impaired or are impaired
, but smaller than the established 
threshold of $1 million and thus not subject to specific allowance 

allocations. The loss rates are derived from a migration analysis, 

which tracks the historical net charge-off experience sustained on 

loans according to their internal risk grade. The risk grading system 

utilized for allowance analysis purpos
es encompasses ten categories.  
Homogenous loans and leases in the residential mortgage and 
consumer portfolio segments are not individually risk graded. 

Rather, standard credit scoring systems and delinquency monitoring 

are used to assess credit risks, and allowances are established based 

on the expected net charge-offs. 
Loss rates are based on the trailing twelve month net charge-off history by loan category. Historical loss 

rates may be adjusted for certain pr
escriptive and qualitative factors 
that, in management™s judgment, are necessary to reflect losses 
inherent in the portfolio. Factors that management considers in the 
analysis include the effects of the national and local economies; 

trends in the nature and volume 
of delinquencies, charge-offs and 
nonaccrual loans; changes in loan mix; credit score migration 

comparisons; asset quality trends
; risk management and loan 
administration; changes in the in
ternal lending policies and credit 
standards; collection practices; an
d examination results from bank 
regulatory agencies and the Bancorp™s internal credit reviewers.  
The Bancorp™s primary market areas for lending are the 
Midwestern and Southeastern regions of the Unites States. When 

evaluating the adequacy of allowances, consideration is given to 

these regional geographic concentrations and the closely associated 

effect changing economic conditions have on the Bancorp™s 

customers.  In the current year, the Bancor
p has not substantively changed 
any material aspect to its overall approach to determining its ALLL 
for any of its portfolio segments. There have been no material 
changes in criteria or estimation techniques as compared to prior 

periods that impacted the determination of the current period 

ALLL for any of the Bancorp™s portfolio segments.  
 Reserve for Unfunded Commitments 
The reserve for unfunded commitmen
ts is maintained at a level 
believed by management to be sufficient to absorb estimated 

probable losses related to unfunded credit facilities and is included 

in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The 

determination of the adequacy of the reserve is based upon an 

evaluation of the unfunded credit facilities, including an assessment 

of historical commitment utilization 
experience, credit risk grading 
and historical loss rates based on credit grade migration. This 
process takes into consideration the same risk elements that are 
analyzed in the determination of the adequacy of the Bancorp™s 

ALLL, as discussed above. Net adjustments to the reserve for 

unfunded commitments are included in other noninterest expense 

in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
  Loan Sales and Securitizations 
The Bancorp periodically sells loan
s through either securitizations 
or individual loan sales in acco
rdance with its investment policies. 
The sold loans are removed from th
e balance sheet and a net gain or loss is recognized in the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial 

Statements at the time of sale. The Bancorp typically isolates the 
loans through the use of a VIE and thus is required to assess 
whether the entity holding the sold 
or securitized loans is a VIE and 
whether the Bancorp is the primary beneficiary and therefore 

consolidator of that VIE. If the Bancorp holds the power to direct 

activities most significant to the economic performance of the VIE 

and has the obligation to absorb losses or right to receive benefits 

that could potentially be significan
t to the VIE, then the Bancorp 
will generally be deemed the primary beneficiary of the VIE. If the 
Bancorp is determined not to be the primary beneficiary of a VIE 
but holds a variable interest in the 
entity, such variable interests are 
accounted for under the equity method of accounting or other 

accounting standards as appropriate. See Note 10 for further 

information on consolidated and non-consolidated VIEs.  
The Bancorp™s loan sales and 
securitizations are generally 
structured with servicing retained. As a result, servicing rights 

resulting from residential mortgage loan sales are initially recorded 
at fair value and subsequently amortized in proportion to and over 
the period of estimated net servicing revenues and are reported as a 

component of mortgage banking ne
t revenue, in the Consolidated 
Statements of Income. Servicing rights are assessed for impairment 

monthly, based on fair value, with temporary impairment 

recognized through a valuat
ion allowance and permanent 
impairment recognized through a wr
ite-off of the servicing asset 
and related valuation allowance. Key economic assumptions used in 
measuring any potential impairment of
 the servicing rights include 
the prepayment speeds of the underlying loans, the weighted-

average life, the discount rate, and the weighted-average coupon, as 

applicable. The primary risk of material changes to the value of the 

servicing rights resides in the 
potential volatility in the economic 
assumptions used, particularly th
e prepayment speeds. The Bancorp 
monitors risk and adjusts its valuation allowance as necessary to 

adequately reserve for impairment in the servicing portfolio. For 
purposes of measuring impairment,
 the mortgage servicing rights 
are stratified into classes based on 
the financial asset type (fixed rate 
vs. adjustable rate) and interest rates. Fees received for servicing 

loans owned by investors are based on a percentage of the 

outstanding monthly principal 
balance of such loans and are 
included in noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements of 

Income as loan payments are received. Costs of servicing loans are 

charged to expense as incurred.  
 Reserve for Representation and Warranty Provisions 
Conforming residential mortgage loans sold to unrelated third 

parties are generally sold with representation and warranty 

provisions. A contractual liability aris
es only in the event of a breach 
of these representations and warranties and, in general, only when a 
loss results from the breach. The Bancorp may be required to 
repurchase any previously sold loan or indemnify (make whole) the 

investor or insurer for which the representation or warranty of the 

Bancorp proves to be inaccurate, incomplete or misleading. The 

Bancorp establishes a residential mortgage repurchase reserve 
related to various representati
ons and warranties that reflects 
management™s estimate of losses base
d on a combination of factors.  
The Bancorp™s estimation process requires management to 
make subjective and complex judg
ments about matters that are 
inherently uncertain, such as futu
re demand expectations, economic 
factors and the specific characteristics of the loans subject to 

repurchase. Such factors incorpor
ate historical investor audit and 
repurchase demand rates, appeals success rates, historical loss 

severity, and any additional information obtained from the GSEs 

regarding future mortgage repurchase
 and file request criteria. At the 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 97  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 time of a loan sale, the Bancorp records a representation and 
warranty reserve at the estimated fair value of the Bancorp™s 

guarantee and continually updates the reserve during the life of the 
loan as losses in excess of the reserve become probable and 
reasonably estimable. The provision 
for the estimated fair value of 
the representation and warranty guarantee arising from the loan 

sales is recorded as an adjustmen
t to the gain on sale, which is 
included in other noninterest income at the time of sale. Updates to 

the reserve are recorded in other noninterest expense.  
  Bank Premises and Equipment 
Bank premises and equipment, including leasehold improvements, 
are carried at cost less accumulat
ed depreciation and amortization. 
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method based on 

estimated useful lives of the assets for book purposes, while 

accelerated depreciation is used for income tax purposes. 

Amortization of leasehold improvements is computed using the 

straight-line method over the lives 
of the related leases or useful 
lives of the related assets, whichever is shorter. Whenever events or 
changes in circumstances dictate, the Bancorp tests its long-lived 
assets for impairment by determining whether the sum of the 

estimated undiscounted future cash 
flows attributable to a long-lived 
asset or asset group is less than the carrying amount of the long-

lived asset or asset group through a probability-weighted 

approach. In the event the carrying
 amount of the long-lived asset 
or asset group is not recoverable,
 an impairment loss is measured as 
the amount by which the carrying am
ount of the long-lived asset or 
asset group exceeds its fair value.
 Maintenance, repairs and minor 
improvements are charged to noninterest expense in the 

Consolidated Statements of Income as incurred. 

 Derivative Financial Instruments 
The Bancorp accounts for its derivati
ves as either assets or liabilities 
measured at fair value through adjustments to accumulated other 

comprehensive income and/or current earnings, as appropriate. On 

the date the Bancorp enters into a derivative contract, the Bancorp 

designates the derivative instrument as
 either a fair value hedge, cash 
flow hedge or as a free-standing derivative instrument. For a fair 
value hedge, changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument 
and changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability or of an 

unrecognized firm commitment attrib
utable to the hedged risk are 
recorded in current period net income. For a cash flow hedge, 

changes in the fair value of the de
rivative instrument, to the extent 
that it is effective, are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive 
income and subsequently reclassi
fied to net income in the same 
period(s) that the hedged transaction impacts net income. For free-
standing derivative instruments, ch
anges in fair values are reported 
in current period net income.  
Prior to entering into a hedge transaction, the Bancorp 
formally documents the relationshi
p between hedging instruments 
and hedged items, as well as the risk management objective and 

strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. This process 

includes linking all derivative instru
ments that are designated as fair 
value or cash flow hedges to specific assets or liabilities on the 
balance sheet or to specific forecasted transactions, along with a 
formal assessment at both inception of the hedge and on an 

ongoing basis as to the effectivene
ss of the derivative instrument in 
offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item. If 

it is determined that the derivative instrument is not highly effective 

as a hedge, hedge accounting is discontinued and the adjustment to 

fair value of the derivative instrument is recorded in net income.  
 Income Taxes 
The Bancorp estimates income tax expense based on amounts 

expected to be owed to the vari
ous tax jurisdictions in which the 
Bancorp conducts business. On 
a quarterly basis, management 
assesses the reasonableness of its e
ffective tax rate based upon its 
current estimate of the amount and components of net income, tax 
credits and the applicable statutor
y tax rates expected for the full 
year. The estimated income tax expense is recorded in the 

Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are determined using 
the balance sheet method and the net deferred tax asset or liability is 

reported in other assets or accrued taxes, interest and expenses in 

the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Under this method, the net 

deferred tax asset or liability is based on the tax effects of the 
differences between the book and tax 
basis of assets and liabilities, 
and reflects enacted changes in tax rates and laws. Deferred tax 

assets are recognized to the extent they exist and are subject to a 

valuation allowance based on management™s judgment that 

realization is more likely than not. This analysis is performed on a 

quarterly basis and includes an evaluation of all positive and 

negative evidence, such as the limitation on the use of any net 

operating losses, to determine wh
ether realization is more likely 
than not. 
Accrued taxes represent the net estimated amount due to 
taxing jurisdictions and are reported
 in accrued taxes, interest and 
expenses in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Bancorp 

evaluates and assesses the relative risks and appropriate tax 

treatment of transactions and f
iling positions after considering 
statutes, regulations, judicial precedent and other information and 

maintains tax accruals consistent wi
th its evaluation of these relative 
risks and merits. Changes to the 
estimate of accrued taxes occur 
periodically due to changes in tax rates, interpretations of tax laws, 

the status of examinations being conducted by taxing authorities 

and changes to statutory, judic
ial and regulatory guidance that 
impact the relative risks of tax po
sitions. These changes, when they 
occur, can affect deferred taxes an
d accrued taxes as well as the 
current period™s income tax expense and can be significant to the 

operating results of the Bancorp. Any interest and penalties incurred 
in connection with income taxes are recorded as a component of 
income tax expense in the Consolidated Financial Statements. For 

additional information on income taxes, see Note 20. 
 Earnings Per Share 
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income 
available to common shareholders by the weighted-average number 
of shares of common stock outstand
ing during the period. Earnings 
per diluted share is computed by dividing adjusted net income 

available to common shareholders by the weighted-average number 

of shares of common stock and common stock equivalents 

outstanding during the period. D
ilutive common stock equivalents 
represent the assumed conversion of
 dilutive convertible preferred 
stock, the exercise of dilutive 
stock-based awards and warrants and 
the dilutive effect of the settlement of outstanding forward 
contracts.  
The Bancorp calculates earnings per share pursuant to the two-
class method. The two-class method is an earnings allocation 

formula that determines earnings
 per share separately for common 
stock and participating securities according to dividends declared 

and participation rights in undist
ributed earnings. For purposes of 
calculating earnings per share under the two-class method, restricted 
shares that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends are considered 
participating securities until vested. While the dividends declared per 

share on such restricted shares ar
e the same as dividends declared 
per common share outstanding, the dividends recognized on such 

restricted shares may be less because dividends paid on restricted 

shares that are expected to be forfeited are reclassified to 

compensation expense during the 
period when forfeiture is 
expected.   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  98  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Goodwill 
Business combinations entered into 
by the Bancorp typically include 
the acquisition of goodwill. Goodwill is required to be tested for 

impairment at the Bancorp™s reporting unit level on an annual basis, 

which for the Bancorp is September 30, and more frequently if 

events or circumstances indicate 
that there may be impairment. The 
Bancorp has determined that its segments qualify as reporting units 
under U.S. GAAP.  
Impairment exists when a report
ing unit™s carrying amount of 
goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. In testing goodwill for 

impairment, U.S. GAAP permits the Bancorp to first assess 

qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not 

that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount 

(Step 0). In this qualitative assess
ment, the Bancorp evaluates events 
and circumstances which may includ
e, but are not limited to, the 
general economic environment, banking industry and market 
conditions, the overall financial performance of the Bancorp, the 

performance of the Bancorp™s stock, the key financial performance 

metrics of the reporting units, and events affecting the reporting 

units. If, after assessing the totalit
y of events and circumstances, the 
Bancorp determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value 

of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing 

the two-step impairment test would be unnecessary. However, if the 
Bancorp concludes otherwise, it wo
uld then be required to perform 
the first step (Step 1) of the goodwill impairment test, and continue 

to the second step (Step 2), if 
necessary. Step 1 of the goodwill 
impairment test compares the fair v
alue of a reporting unit with its 
carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the 

reporting unit exceeds its fair value, Step 2 of the goodwill 

impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment 

loss, if any. The fair value of a reporting unit is the price that would be 
received to sell the unit as a whole in an orderly transaction between 

market participants at the measurement date. Since none of the 

Bancorp™s reporting units are publicly traded, individual reporting 

unit fair value determinations cannot be directly correlated to the 

Bancorp™s stock price. To determine the fair value of a reporting 

unit, the Bancorp employs an income-based approach, utilizing the 

reporting unit™s forecasted cash 
flows (including a terminal value 
approach to estimate cash flows beyond the final year of the 
forecast) and the reporting unit™s 
estimated cost of equity as the 
discount rate. Additionally, the 
Bancorp determines its market 
capitalization based on the average of the closing price of the 

Bancorp™s stock during the month including the measurement date, 

incorporating an additional cont
rol premium, and compares this 
market-based fair value measuremen
t to the aggregate fair value of 
the Bancorp™s reporting units in order to corroborate the results of 
the income approach.  
When required to perform Step 2, the Bancorp compares the 
implied fair value of a reporting unit™s goodwill with the carrying 

amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount exceeds the implied 

fair value, an impairment loss e
qual to that excess amount is 
recognized. A recognized impairment loss cannot exceed the 

carrying amount of that goodwill and cannot be reversed in future 

periods even if the fair value of the reporting unit subsequently 
recovers. During Step 2, the Bancorp determines the implied fair value of 
goodwill for a reporting unit by assigning the fair value of the 

reporting unit to all of the assets an
d liabilities of that unit (including 
any unrecognized intangible assets) 
as if the reporting unit had been 
acquired in a business combination. The excess of the fair value of 

the reporting unit over the amou
nts assigned to its assets and 
liabilities is the implied fair v
alue of goodwill. This assignment 
process is only performed for purposes of testing goodwill for 
impairment. The Bancorp does not adjust the carrying values of 
recognized assets or liabilities (oth
er than goodwill, if appropriate), 
nor recognize previously unrecogn
ized intangible assets in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements as a result of this assignment 

process. Refer to Note 8 for further information regarding the 
Bancorp™s goodwill. 
 Fair Value Measurements 
The Bancorp measures certain fina
ncial assets and liabilities at fair 
value in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which defines fair value as the 

price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a 
liability in an orderly transaction be
tween market participants at the 
measurement date. Valuation techniques the Bancorp uses to 

measure fair value include the ma
rket approach, income approach 
and cost approach. The market appr
oach uses prices or relevant 
information generated by market tr
ansactions involving identical or 
comparable assets or liabilities. 
The income approach involves 
discounting future amounts to a si
ngle present amount and is based 
on current market expectations a
bout those future amounts. The 
cost approach is based on the amount that currently would be 
required to replace the service capacity of the asset. 
U.S. GAAP establishes a fair v
alue hierarchy, which prioritizes 
the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into 

three broad levels. The fair value hi
erarchy gives the highest priority 
to quoted prices in active market
s for identical assets or liabilities 
(Level 1) and the lowest priority 
to unobservable inputs (Level 3). A 
financial instrument™s categorization
 within the fair value hierarchy 
is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the 
instrument™s fair value measurement. 
The three levels within the fair 
value hierarchy are described as follows:    

 Level 1
 Œ Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities that the Bancorp has the ability to 

access at the measurement date. 

 Level 2
 Œ Inputs other than quoted pr
ices included within Level 
1 that are observable for the asset 
or liability, either directly or 
indirectly. Level 2 inputs include: quoted prices for similar 

assets or liabilities in active mark
ets; quoted prices for identical 
or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; 

inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the 

asset or liability; and inputs that 
are derived principally from or 
corroborated by observable market 
data by correlation or other 
means.  
Level 3
 Œ Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability for which 
there is little, if any, market activity at the measurement date. 

Unobservable inputs reflect th
e Bancorp™s own assumptions 
about what market participants would use to price the asset or 

liability. The inputs are developed based on the best 

information available in the circumstances, which might 
include the Bancorp™s own financial data such as internally 
developed pricing models and discounted cash flow 

methodologies, as well as instruments for which the fair value 

determination requires significant management judgment. 
 The Bancorp's fair value measur
ements involve various valuation 
techniques and models, which involve inputs that are observable, 

when available. Valuation techniques and parameters used for 
measuring assets and liabilities are reviewed and validated by the 
Bancorp on a quarterly basis. Addi
tionally, the Bancorp monitors 
the fair values of significant asse
ts and liabilities using a variety of 
methods including the evaluation of pricing runs and exception
 reports based on certain analytical 
criteria, comparison to previous 
trades and overall review and asse
ssments for reasonableness. See 
Note 27 for further information on fair value measurements.  
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 99  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  Stock-Based Compensation  
The Bancorp recognizes compensation expense for the grant-date 
fair value of stock-based awards th
at are expected to vest over the 
requisite service period. All awards
, both those with cliff vesting and 
graded vesting, are expensed on a straight-line basis. Awards to 

employees that meet eligible retirement status are expensed 

immediately. As compensation expense is recognized, a deferred tax 

asset is recorded that represents an estimate of the future tax 
deduction from exercise or rele
ase of restrictions. At the time 
awards are exercised, cancelled, expire, or restrictions are released, 

the Bancorp may be required to r
ecognize an adjustment to income 
tax expense for the difference betw
een the previously estimated tax 
deduction and the actual tax deduction realized. For further 

information on the Bancorp™s stock-based compensation plans, see 

Note 24.  Pension Plans The Bancorp uses an expected long
-term rate of return applied to 
the fair market value of assets as of the beginning of the year and 

the expected cash flow during th
e year for calculating the expected 
investment return on all pension plan assets. Amortization of the 

net gain or loss resulting from experience different from that 
assumed and from changes in assu
mptions (excluding asset gains 
and losses not yet reflected in market-related value) is included as a 

component of net periodic benefit cost. If, as of the beginning of 

the year, that net gain or loss exceeds 10% of the greater of the 

projected benefit obligation and th
e market-related value of plan 
assets, the amortization is that excess divided by the average 

remaining service period of participating employees expected to 

receive benefits under the plan. The Bancorp uses a third-party 
actuary to compute the remaining service period of participating 
employees. This period reflects ex
pected turnover, pre-retirement 
mortality, and other applicable employee demographics. 
 Other 
Securities and other property held by Fifth Third Investment 

Advisors, a division of the Banc
orp™s banking subsidiary, in a 
fiduciary or agency capacity are not
 included in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheets because such items are not assets of the subsidiaries. 

Investment advisory revenue in the Consolidated Statements of 

Income is recognized on the accrual basis. Investment advisory 

service revenues are recognized monthly based on a fee charged per 
transaction processed and/or a fee charged on the market value of 
average account balances associated with individual contracts.  
The Bancorp recognizes revenue from its card and processing 
services on an accrual basis as such services are performed, 

recording revenues net of certain costs (primarily interchange fees 

charged by credit card associations) not controlled by the Bancorp.  
The Bancorp purchases life insurance policies on the lives of 
certain directors, officers and employees and is the owner and 
beneficiary of the policies. The Ba
ncorp invests in these policies, 
known as BOLI, to provide an efficient form of funding for long-

term retirement and other employee benefits costs. The Bancorp 

records these BOLI policies within other assets in the Consolidated 

Balance Sheets at each policy™s respect
ive cash surrender value, with 
changes recorded in other noninterest income in the Consolidated 

Statements of Income. 
Other intangible assets consist of core deposit intangibles, 
customer lists, non-compete agreements and cardholder 
relationships. Other intangible assets are amortized on either a 

straight-line or an accelerated basi
s over their estimated useful lives. 
The Bancorp reviews other intangible assets for impairment 

whenever events or changes in circ
umstances indicate that carrying 
amounts may not be recoverable. 
Securities sold under repurchase agreements are accounted for 
as collateralized financing transacti
ons and included in other short-
term borrowings in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at the amounts 
which the securities were sold plus accrued interest. 
 Acquisitions of treasury stock ar
e carried at cost. Reissuance of 
shares in treasury for acquisitions
, exercises of stock-based awards 
or other corporate purposes is recorded based on the specific 

identification method. Advertising costs are generally expensed as incurred.  Accounting and Reporting Developments 
Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities  
In December 2011, and clarified in January 2013, the FASB issued 

amended guidance related to disclosures about offsetting assets and 

liabilities. The amended guidance requires the Bancorp to disclose 
both gross information and net information about financial 
instruments, including derivatives, an
d transactions eligible for offset in the Consolidated Balance Sheet
s as well as financial instruments 
and transactions subject to agreemen
ts similar to a master netting 
arrangement. The amended guidance was required to be applied 

retrospectively and was effective fo
r fiscal years, and interim periods 
within those years, beginning on or after January 1, 2013. The 

amended guidance was adopted by the Bancorp on January 1, 2013 
and the required disclosures are included in Note 13. 
 
Reporting of Amounts Reclassified Ou
t of Accumulated Other Comprehensive 
Income 
In February 2013, the FASB issu
ed amended guidance related to 
amounts reclassified out of AOCI
. The amended guidance requires the Bancorp to present, either on the face of the Consolidated 

Statements of Income or in the 
Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements, significant amounts reclassified out of AOCI by the 
respective line items of net income but only if the amount 

reclassified is required under U.S. GAAP to be reclassified to net 

income in its entirety in the same reporting period. For other 

amounts that are not required to be reclassified in their entirety, the 

Bancorp is required to cross-reference to other disclosures required 

under U.S. GAAP that provide additional detail about those 

amounts. The amended guidance was effective prospectively for 
reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2012 and was 
adopted by the Bancorp on January 1, 2013. The required 

disclosures are included in Note 22. 

 
Obligations Resulting from Joint and Se
veral Liability Arrangements for Which 
the Total Amount of the Obligation
 is Fixed at the Reporting Date 
In February 2013, the FASB issued amended guidance relating to 

the measurement of obligations re
sulting from joint and several 
liability arrangements for which the total amount under the 
arrangement is fixed at the reporting date. For the total amount of 

an obligation under an arrangement to be considered fixed at the 

reporting date, there can be no measurement uncertainty relating to 

the total amount of the obligation. The obligation resulting from 

joint and several liability arrangements
 would be measured initially as 
the sum of 1) the amount the Bancorp has agreed to pay on the 

basis of its arrangement among its 
co-obligors and 2) any additional 
amount the Bancorp expects to pay on behalf of its co-obligors. The 
amended guidance also would require the Bancorp to disclose the 

nature and amount of the obligation as well as information about 

the risks that such obligations 
pose to future cash flows. The 
amended guidance is effective for reporting periods beginning after 

December 15, 2013 and will be applie
d retrospectively to all prior 
periods presented for those obligations resulting from joint and 

several liability arrangements that exist at the beginning of the fiscal 
year of adoption. The Bancorp adopted the amended guidance on 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  100  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 January 1, 2014 and the adoption di
d not have a material impact on 
the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
Inclusion of the Fed Funds Effective Swap Rate (or Overnight Index Swap 
Rate) as a Benchmark Interest Rate for Hedge Accounting Purposes 
In July 2013, the FASB issued amended guidance which permits the 

OIS to be used as a U.S. benchmark interest rate for hedge 

accounting purposes, in addition to UST and LIBOR. The amended 

guidance also removed a previous sc
ope reference that required the 
same benchmark interest rate be used for similar hedges and that 

using different rates be rare and justified. The amended guidance 

was effective prospectively for qualifying new or redesignated 
hedging relationships entered into on or after July 17, 2013 (i.e., the 
issuance date). The Bancorp™s ad
option of the amended guidance 
did not have a material impact on the Bancorp™s Consolidated 

Financial Statements. 

 
Presentation of an Unrecognized Tax 
Benefit When a Net Operating Loss 
Carryforward, a Similar Tax Loss, or a Tax Credit Carryforward Exists 

In July 2013, the FASB issued amended guidance to clarify that an 
unrecognized tax benefit, or a portion of an unrecognized tax 
benefit, should be presented in the financial statements as a 

reduction to a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss 

carryforward, a similar tax loss, or 
a tax credit carryforward, except 
as follows. To the extent a net operating loss carryforward, a similar 

tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward is not available at the reporting 

date under the tax law of the applicable jurisdiction to settle any 

income taxes that would result from the disallowance of a tax 
position or the tax law of the applicable jurisdiction does not require 
the entity to use, and the entity do
es not intend to use, the deferred 
tax asset for such purpose, the unrecognized tax benefit should be 

presented in the financial statements
 as a liability and should not be 
combined with deferred tax assets. The assessment of whether a 

deferred tax asset is available is 
based on the unrecognized tax 
benefit and deferred tax asset that exist at the reporting date and 

should be made presuming disallowance of the tax position at the 
reporting date. The amended guidance is effective for fiscal years, 
and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 

15, 2013, with early adoption permitted. The Bancorp adopted the 

amended guidance on January 1, 2014 and the adoption of the 

amended guidance did not have a ma
terial impact on the Bancorp™s 
Consolidated Financial Statements. 

 
Accounting for Investments in Qual
ified Affordable Housing Projects 
In January 2014, the FASB issued amended guidance which would 
permit the Bancorp to make an accounting policy election to 

account for its investments in qualified affordable housing projects 

using a proportional amortization method if certain conditions are 

met. Under the proportional amortization method, the Bancorp 

would amortize the initial cost of
 the investment in proportion to 
the tax credits and other tax benefits received and recognize the net 

investment performance in the income statement as a component of 
income tax expense (benefit). The amended guidance would require 
disclosure of the nature of the 
Bancorp™s investments in qualified 
affordable housing projects, and 
the effect of the measurement of 
the investments in qualified affo
rdable housing projects and the 
related tax credits on the Bancorp™s financial position and results of 

operation. The amended guidance would be applied retrospectively 

to all periods presented and is eff
ective for fiscal years, and interim 
periods within those years, beginni
ng after December 15, 2014, with 
early adoption permitted. The Bancorp is currently in the process of 
evaluating the impact of adopting the amended guidance on the 

Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements. 

 Reclassification of Residential Real Es
tate Collateralized Consumer Mortgage 
Loans upon Foreclosure 
In January 2014, the FASB issued amended guidance that clarifies 

when a creditor should be considered to have received physical 
possession of residential real estate property collateralizing a 
consumer mortgage loan such that
 the loan receivable should be 
derecognized and the real estate property recognized. The amended 

guidance clarifies that an in substance repossession or foreclosure 

occurs, and a creditor is considered to have received physical 

possession of residential real estate property collateralizing a 

consumer mortgage loan, upon eith
er (1) the creditor obtaining legal 
title to the residential real estate property upon completion of a 
foreclosure or (2) the borrower conveying all interest in the 
residential real estate property to the creditor to satisfy that loan 

through completion of a deed in lieu of foreclosure or through a 

similar legal agreement. In additi
on, the amended guidance requires 
interim and annual disclosures of both (1) the amount of foreclosed 

residential real estate property he
ld by the creditor and (2) the 
recorded investment in consumer mortgage loans collateralized by 

residential real estate property that are in the process of foreclosure 
according to local requirements of 
the applicable jurisdiction. The 
amended guidance may be applied prospectively or through a 

modified retrospective approach and 
is effective for fiscal years, and 
interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 

2014, with early adoption permitte
d. The adoption of the amended 
guidance is not expected to have 
a material impact on the Bancorp™s 
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 101  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 2.  SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION
   Cash payments related to interest and inco
me taxes, in addition to noncash investin
g and financing activities, are presented 
in the following table 
for the years ended December 31:
          ($ in millions) 
 2013 
2012
2011 
Cash payments:  Interest 
$406 
524
658 
Income taxes 
 535 
383
102 
   Noncash Investing and Financing Activities:
        Portfolio loans to loans held for sale 
  641 
 62
 143 
Loans held for sale to portfolio loans 
  44 
 77
 32 
Portfolio loans to OREO 
  204 
 272
 342 
Loans held for sale to OREO 
  4 
 23
 43 
3. RESTRICTIONS ON CASH AND DIVIDENDS 
The FRB, under Regulation D, requires that banks hold cash in 
reserve against deposit liabilities, known as the reserve requirement.  

The reserve requirement is calculated based on a two-week average 
of daily net transaction account deposits as defined by the FRB and 
may be satisfied with vault cash. Wh
en vault cash is not sufficient to 
meet the reserve requirement, the remaining amount must be 

satisfied with funds held at the FRB. At December 31, 2013 and 

2012, the Bancorp™s banking subsidiary reserve requirement was 

$1.6 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. Vault cash was not 

sufficient to meet the total reserve requirement; therefore, as of 

December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Bancorp™s banking subsidiary 
satisfied the remaining reserve 
requirement with $942 million and 
$1.1 billion, respectively, of the Bancorp™s total deposit at the FRB. 

The Bancorp™s total deposit at the FRB is held in other short-term 

investments in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
The dividends paid by the Bancorp™s banking subsidiary are 
subject to regulations and limitations
 prescribed by state and federal 
supervisory agencies. Due to the regulations and limitations, the 

Bancorp™s banking subsidiary was prohibited from declaring 
dividends without also obtaining prior approval from supervisory 
agencies at December 31, 2013 an
d 2012. The Bancorp™s banking 
subsidiary paid the Bancorp™s nonba
nk subsidiary holding company, 
which in turn paid the Bancorp $859 million and $2.0 billion in 

dividends during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, 

respectively.  The FRB issued guidelines known as CCAR, which provide a 
common, conservative approach to ensure BHCs, including the 
Bancorp, hold adequate capital to 
maintain ready access to funding, 
continue operations and meet their obligations to creditors and 

counterparties, and continue to serv
e as credit intermediaries, even 
in adverse conditions.  The CCAR process requires the submission 

of a comprehensive capital plan that assumes a minimum planning 

horizon of nine quarters under various economic scenarios.  
The mandatory elements of the capital plan are an assessment 
of the expected use and sources of capital over the planning 
horizon, a description of all planned capital actions over the 
planning horizon, a discussion of any expected changes to the 

Bancorp™s business plan that are lik
ely to have a material impact on 
its capital adequacy or liquidity, a detailed description of the 

Bancorp™s process for assessing capital adequacy and the Bancorp™s 

capital policy. The capital plan 
must reflect the revised capital 
framework that the FRB adopted in connection with the 

implementation of the Basel III accord, including the framework™s 
minimum regulatory capital ratios and transition arrangements. 
The FRB™s review of the capital plan will assess the 
comprehensiveness of the capital plan, the reasonableness of the 

assumptions and the analysis underlying the capital plan. 
Additionally, the FRB reviews the robustness of the capital 
adequacy process, the capital policy and the Bancorp™s ability to 

maintain capital above the minimum 
regulatory capital ratios as they 
transition to Basel III and above a Basel I Tier 1 common ratio of 
five percent under baseline and stressful conditions throughout a 

nine-quarter planning horizon.  
The FRB issued stress testing rules that implement section 
165(i)(1) and (i)(2) of the DFA. Large BHCs, including the Bancorp, 

are subject to the final stress testing rules. The rules require both 

supervisory and company-run stress tests, which provide forward-

looking information to supervisors to help assess whether 
institutions have sufficient capi
tal to absorb losses and support 
operations during adverse economic conditions.  
In March 2013, the FRB announced it had completed the 2013 
CCAR. For BHCs that proposed capi
tal distributions in their plan, 
the FRB either objected to the plan or provided a non-objection 

whereby the FRB concurred with the proposed 2013 capital 

distributions.  The FRB indicated to the Bancorp that it did not 

object to the following proposed capital actions for the period 
beginning April 1, 2013 and ending March 31, 2014: the potential 
increase in its quarterly common stock dividend to $0.12 per share; 

the potential repurchase of up to $750 million in TruPS, subject to 

the determination of a regulatory capital event and replacement with 

the issuance of a similar amount of Tier II-qualifying subordinated 

debt; the potential conversion of the $398 million in outstanding 

Series G 8.5% convertible preferred stock into approximately 35.5 

million common shares issued to the holders and the repurchase an 
equivalent amount of common shares issued in the conversion up 
to $550 million in market value, and the issuance of $550 million in 

preferred shares; the potential repurchase of common shares in an 

amount up to $984 million, including 
any shares issued in a Series G 
preferred stock conversion; incremental repurchase of common 

shares in the amount of any after-
tax gains from the sale of Vantiv, 
Inc stock and the potential issuance of an additional $500 million in 

preferred stock. Actions consistent with these proposed capital 
actions were substantially completed in 2013. 
The DFA requires that BHCs with over $50 billion in 
consolidated assets that particip
ated in the 2009 Supervisory Capital 
Assessment Program, including the Bancorp, conduct two stress 

tests each year. On May 13, 2013, the FRB launched the 2013 Mid-

Cycle Stress Tests, which was submitted to the FRB in July 2013. 

The stress tests required the BHCs 
to develop their own baseline, 
adverse and severely adverse scen
arios to reflect its individual 
operations and risks. Each BHC was 
required to release its results 
under the severely adverse scenario, which the Bancorp disclosed on 

its website on September 24, 2013.    
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  102  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The FRB launched the 2014 stress testing program and CCAR 
on November 1, 2013. The stress testing results and capital plan 

were submitted by the Bancorp to the FRB on January 6, 2014. 
The FRB expects to release summary results of the 2014 stress 
testing program and CCAR in March 2014. The results will include 
supervisory projections of capital 
ratios, losses and revenues under 
the supervisory adverse and supervisory severely adverse scenarios. 

The FRB will also issue an object
ion or non-objection to each 
participating institution™s capital plan submitted under CCAR.  

Additionally, as a CCAR institution Fifth Third is required to 
disclose its own estimates of results under the supervisory severely 
adverse scenario using the same c
onsistently applied capital actions 
noted above, and to provide informat
ion related to risks included in 
its stress testing; a summary desc
ription of the methodologies used; 
estimates of aggregate pre-provision net revenue, losses, provisions, 
and pro forma capital ratios at the end of the forward-looking 

planning horizon of at least nine 
quarters; and an explanation of the 
most significant causes of changes 
in regulatory capital ratios. These 
disclosures are required by March 31, 2014 and are to be sent to the 

FRB and publicly disclosed.  
 4. SECURITIES 
The following table provides the amortized cost, fair value and 
unrealized gains and losses for the major categories of the ava
ilable-for-sale and 
other and held-to-maturity securities portfolios as of December 31:
                  2013 
 2012 
     AmortizedUnrealized
Unrealized
Fair  
Amortized Unrealized 
Unrealized
Fair  
($ in millions) 
Cost Gains 
Losses 
Value 
Cost Gains 
Losses 
Value 
Available-for-sale and other: 
                            U.S. Treasury and government agencies 
$ 26 
 - 
 - 
 26 
41 
 - 
 - 
41 
  U.S. Government sponsored agencies 
 1,523 
 121 
 - 
 1,644 
1,730 
 181 
 - 
1,911 
  Obligations of states and political subdivisions 
 187 
 5 
 - 
 192 
203 
 9 
 - 
212 
  Agency mortgage-backed securities
(a)  12,294 
 140 
 (150)
 12,284 
8,403 
345 
(18)
8,730 
  Other bonds, notes and debentures 
 3,514 
 76 
 (8)
 3,582 
3,161 
119 
(3)
3,277 
  Other securities
(b)  865 
 5 
 (1)
 869 
1,033 
3  - 
1,036 
Total $ 18,409 
 347 
 (159)
 18,597 
14,571 
657 
(21)
15,207 
Held-to-maturity:
   Obligations of states and political subdivisions 
$ 207 
 - 
 - 
 207 
282 
 - 
 - 
282 
  Other debt securities 
 1 
 - 
 - 
 1 
2  - 
 - 
2 Total $ 208 
 - 
 - 
 208 
284 
 - 
 - 
284 
(a) Includes interest-only mortgage backed securities of 
$262 
and $408 as of
 December 31, 2013
 and 2012, respectively, recorded at fair value with 
fair value changes recorded in securities gains, net 
and securities gains, net Œ non-qualifying hedges on mortgage ser
vicing rights in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  
(b) Other securities consist of FHLB and FRB restricted stock holdings of 
$402
 and 
$349
, respectively, at 
December 31, 2013
 and, $497 and $347, respectively, at December 31, 2012, that are 
carried at cost, and certain mutual fund and equity security holdings.
  The following table presents realized gains 
and losses that were recognized in income 
from available-for-sale securities for th
e years ended
December 31:         ($ in millions)
  2013 
 2012 
 2011  
Realized gains 
$77 
  75 
  75 
  Realized losses 
 (102)  (2)
   - 
  OTTI  (74)  (58)
  (19)
  Net realized (losses) gains
(a) $(99)15 
  56 
  (a) Excludes net gains on interest-only mortgage-backed secur
ities of $129 for the year 
ended December 31, 2013.
 Trading securities totaled $343 million as of December 31, 2013, 
compared to $207 million at December 31, 2012. Gross realized 

gains on trading securities were $1 million, $2 million and $1 million 

for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, 

respectively. Gross realized losses on trading securities were 

immaterial to the Bancorp for the years ended December 31, 2013 
and 2012 and $7 million for the year ended December 31, 2011. Net 
unrealized gains on trading securities were $3 million, $1 million and 
$5 million at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.  
At December 31, 2013 and 2012 securities with a fair value of 
$11.6 billion and $12.6 billion, respectively, were pledged to secure 

borrowings, public deposits, trust fu
nds, derivative contracts and for other purposes as required or permitted by law. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 103  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The expected maturity distribution of the 
Bancorp™s agency mortgage-backed securities 
and the contractual maturity distribution
 of the Bancorp™s
available-for-sale and other and held-to-maturity securities as of December
 31, 2013 are shown in the following table:
             Available-for-Sale and Other 
Held-to-Maturity 
($ in millions) 
Amortized Cost 
Fair Value 
Amortized Cost 
Fair Value 
Debt securities:
(a)                   Under 1 year $120 
  123 
  19 
  19 
    1-5 years 3,703 
  3,893 
  170 
  170 
    5-10 years 
9,765 
  9,701 
  17 
  17 
    Over 10 years 
3,956 
  4,011 
  2   2   Other securities 
865 
  869 
   - 
   - 
Total 
$18,409 
  18,597 
  208 
  208 
  (a) Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities when there exists a right to call or prepay obligations with or withou
t call or prepayment penalties. 
 The following table provides the fair v
alue and gross unrealized losses on available-for
-sale and other securities in an unreal
ized loss position, 
aggregated by investment category and length of time the individu
al securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss positi
on as of December
31:           Less than 12 months 
12 months or more 
Total 
     Unrealized 
    Unrealized 
   Unrealized 
($ in millions) 
Fair Value 
Losses 
Fair Value 
Losses 
Fair Value 
Losses 
2013 
                     Agency mortgage-backed securities 
$ 7,221 
 (150)
 1 
 - 
 7,222 
 (150)
Other bonds, notes and debentures
  595 
 (5)
 132 
 (3)
 727 
 (8)
Other securities
  33 
 (1)
 4 
 - 
 37 
 (1)
Total $ 7,849 
 (156)
 137 
 (3)
 7,986 
 (159)
2012 
 Agency mortgage-backed securities
 $ 1,784 
 (18)
 - 
 - 
 1,784 
 (18)
Other bonds, notes and debentures 
 454 
 (3)
 - 
 - 
 454 
 (3)
Other securities 
 1 
 - - 
 - 
 1 
 -Total 
$ 2,239 
 (21)
 - 
 - 
 2,239 
 (21)
  Other-Than-Temporary Impairments 
The Bancorp recognized $74 million, $58 million, and $19 million of 
OTTI on its available-for-sale and other debt securities, included in 

securities gains, net and securities
 gains, net Œ non-qualifying hedges 
on mortgage servicing rights, in the Bancorp™s Consolidated 

Statements of Income during the years ended December 31, 2013,  

2012, and 2011, respectively. The Bancorp did not recognize OTTI 

on its held-to-maturity debt securities for the years ended December 

31, 2013, 2012, and 2011. Less than 
one percent of unrealized losses 
in the available-for-sale securities
 portfolio were represented by 
non-rated securities at December 31, 2013 and 2012. 
During the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, 
the Bancorp did not recognize OTTI on any of its available-for-sale 

equity securities. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  104  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 5. LOANS AND LEASES 
The Bancorp diversifies its loan and lease portfolio by offering a 
variety of loan and lease products with various payment terms and 
rate structures. Lending activities
 are concentrated within those 
states in which the Bancorp has banking centers and are primarily 

located in the Midwestern and Sout
heastern regions of the United 
States. The Bancorp™s commercial loan
 portfolio consists of lending 
to various industry types. Management periodically reviews the 
performance of its loan and lease products to evaluate whether they 
are performing within acceptable interest rate and credit risk levels 
and changes are made to underwri
ting policies and procedures as 
needed. The Bancorp maintains an 
allowance to absorb loan and 
lease losses inherent in the port
folio. For further information on credit quality and the ALLL, see Note 6. 
 The following table provides a summary of the total loans an
d leases classified by primary purpose as of December 31: 
             ($ in millions) 
2013 
 2012 
 Loans and leases held for sale: 
          Commercial and industrial loans  
$31   39 
    Commercial mortgage loans 
3   13 
    Commercial construction loans 
2   9     Commercial leases 
1    - 
    Residential mortgage loans 
890 
  2,856 
    Other consumer loans and leases 
17   22 
  Total loans and leases held for sale 
$944 
  2,939 
  Portfolio loans and leases: 
          Commercial and industrial loans  
$39,316 
  36,038 
    Commercial mortgage loans 
8,066 
  9,103 
    Commercial construction loans 
1,039 
  698 
    Commercial leases 
3,625 
  3,549 
  Total commercial loans and leases 
52,046 
  49,388 
    Residential mortgage loans 
12,680   12,017 
    Home equity 
9,246 
  10,018 
    Automobile loans 
11,984 
  11,972 
    Credit card 
2,294 
  2,097 
    Other consumer loans and leases  
364 
  290 
  Total consumer loans and leases 
36,568 
  36,394 
  Total portfolio loans and leases 
$88,614 
  85,782 
          Total portfolio loans and leases 
are recorded net of unearned 
income, which totaled $700 million as of December 31, 2013 and 

$758 million as of December 31, 2012. Additionally, portfolio loans 

and leases are recorded net of unamortized premiums and 

discounts, deferred loan fees and costs, and fair value adjustments 
(associated with acquired loans or 
loans designated as fair value 
upon origination) which totaled a net premium of $111 million and 
$73 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. The Bancorp™s FHLB and FRB advances are generally secured by 
loans. The Bancorp had loans of 
$10.9 billion and $12.7 billion at 
December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, pledged at the FHLB, 
and loans of $33.5 billion and 
$30.9 billion at December 31, 2013 
and 2012, respectively, pledged at the FRB.   
 The following table presents a summary of the total loans and le
ases owned by the Bancorp as of and for the years ended Decembe
r 31:                         90 Days Past Due 
  Net 
    Balance 
 and Still Accruing 
  Charge-Offs 
($ in millions) 
  2013 
 2012 
  2013 
 2012 
   2013 
 2012 
 Commercial and industrial loans 
$ 39,347 
36,077 
$ - 
1 $ 168 165 
Commercial mortgage loans 
  8,069 
9,116 
  - 
22 
  47 
99 
Commercial construction loans 
  1,041 
707 
  - 
1   4 25 
Commercial leases 
  3,626 
3,549 
  - 
 - 
  1 8 Residential mortgage loans 
  13,570 14,873 
 66 
75 
  60 
122 
Home equity 
  9,246 
10,018 
  - 
58 
  97 
157 
Automobile loans 
  11,984 
11,972 
 8 8   22 
31 
Credit card 
  2,294 
2,097 
 29 
30 
  78 
74 
Other consumer loans and leases 
  381 
312 
  - 
 - 
  24 
23 
Total loans and leases 
$ 89,558 
88,721 
$103 195 
$ 501 
704 
Less: Loans held for sale 
$ 944 
2,939 
   Total portfolio loans and leases 
$ 88,614 
85,782 
         The Bancorp engages in commercial lease products primarily related 
to the financing of commercial e
quipment. The Bancorp had $3.0 
billion of direct financing leases and $1.3 billion of leveraged leases 

at both of the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012. 
Pre-tax income from leveraged 
leases for 2013 was $25 million 
compared to pre-tax income in 2012 of $37 million. The tax effect 

of this income was an expense of $9 million in 2013 and a benefit of 

$6 million in 2012.   
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 105  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  The components of the investment in lease financing at December 31:
      ($ in millions)
   2013 
 2012 
 Rentals receivable, net of principal and interest on nonrecourse debt 
$ 3,556 
3,543 
Estimated residual valu
e of leased assets 
  754 
760 
Initial direct cost, net of amortization 
  15 16 
Gross investment in lease financing 
  4,325 
4,319 
Unearned income   (700)(758)
Net investment in lease financing
(a) $ 3,625 
3,561 
(a) The accumulated allowance for uncollectible minimum lease payments was 
$53 million
 and $67 million at 
December 31, 2013 
and 2012, respectively.
 The Bancorp periodically reviews residual values associated with its 
leasing portfolio. Declines in residu
al values that are deemed to be 
other-than-temporary are recognized as a loss. The Bancorp 

recognized $13 million and $9 million of residual value write-downs 

related to commercial leases for the years ended December 31, 2013 

and 2012, respectively. The residual
 value write-downs related to 
commercial leases are recorded in corporate banking revenue in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income. At December 31, 2013, the 

minimum future lease payments r
eceivable for each of the years 
2014 through 2018 was $664 million, $591 million, $505 million, 

$389 million and $289 million, respectively. 6. CREDIT QUALITY AND THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN AND LEASE LOSSES 
The Bancorp disaggregates ALLL balances and transactions in the ALLL by portfolio segment. Credit quality related disclosures f
or loans and 
leases are further disaggregated by class. 
  Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses
   The following tables summarize transacti
ons in the ALLL by portfolio segment:
                         For the year ended December 31, 2013
     Residential 
          ($ in millions) 
 Commercial 
Mortgage 
Consumer 
Unallocated 
Total 
Transactions in the ALLL: 
                       Balance at January 1 
$ 1,236
 229 
 278 
 111 
   1,854
    Losses charged off 
  (284)
 (70)
 (283)
 - 
 (637)
  Recoveries of losses previously charged off 
  64
 10 
 62 
 - 
 136
  Provision for loan and lease losses 
  42
 20 
 168 
 (1)
 229
Balance at December 31
 $ 1,058
 189 
 225 
 110 
 1,582
  For the year ended December 31, 2012
     Residential 
          ($ in millions) 
 Commercial 
Mortgage 
Consumer 
Unallocated 
Total 
Transactions in the ALLL: 
                       Balance at January 1 
$ 1,527
 227 
 365 
 136 
   2,255
    Losses charged off 
  (358)
 (129)
 (350)
 - 
 (837)
  Recoveries of losses previously charged off 
  61
 7 
 65 
 - 
 133
  Provision for loan and lease losses 
  6 124 
 198 
 (25)
 303
Balance at December 31
 $ 1,236
 229 
 278 
 111 
 1,854
        For the year ended December 31, 2011
     Residential 
          ($ in millions) 
 Commercial 
Mortgage 
Consumer 
Unallocated 
Total 
Transactions in the ALLL: 
                       Balance at January 1 
$ 1,989
 310 
 555 
 150 
   3,004
    Losses charged off 
  (615)
 (180)
 (519)
 - 
 (1,314)
  Recoveries of losses previously charged off 
  61
 7 
 74 
 - 
 142
  Provision for loan and lease losses 
  92
 90 
 255 
 (14)
 423
Balance at December 31
 $ 1,527
 227 
 365 
 136 
 2,255
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  106  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following tables provide a summary of the ALLL and re
lated loans and leases classified by portfolio segment:
               Residential 
          As of December 31, 2013 ($ in millions)
  Commercial 
Mortgage 
Consumer 
Unallocated 
Total 
ALLL:(a)                         Individually evaluated for impairment
 $ 186
a (c)  139 
   53 
   - 
   378
    Collectively evaluate
d for impairment 
  872
   50 
   172 
   - 
   1,094
    Unallocated 
  -   - 
   - 
   110 
   110
  Total ALLL
 $ 1,058
   189 
   225 
   110 
   1,582
  Loans and leases:
(b)
                         Individually evaluated for impairment
 $ 1,560
a (c)  1,325 
   496 
   - 
   3,381
    Collectively evaluate
d for impairment 
  50,486
   11,259 
   23,392 
   - 
   85,137
    Loans acquired with dete
riorated credit quality 
  -   4 
   - 
   - 
   4  Total portfolio loans and leases
 $ 52,046
   12,588 
   23,888 
   - 
   88,522
  (a)
 Includes $9 related to leveraged leases. 
(b)
 Excludes $92
 of residential mortgage loans meas
ured at fair value, and includes 
$881
 of leveraged leases, net of unearned income.
 (c) Includes five restructured nonaccrual loans at 
December 31, 2013
 associated with a consolidated variable in
terest entity, in which the Bancorp has no 
continuing credit risk
 due to the risk be
ing 
assumed by a third party, with a recorded investment of 
$28
 and an allowance of 
$11
.        Residential 
          As of December 31, 2012
 ($ in millions) 
 Commercial  
Mortgage 
Consumer 
Unallocated 
Total  
ALLL:(a)                         Individually evaluated for impairment
 $ 95
 137 
 62 
 - 
 294
  Collectively evaluate
d for impairment 
  1,140
 91 
 216 
 - 
 1,447
  Loans acquired with dete
riorated credit quality 
  1 1 
 - 
 - 
 2  Unallocated 
  - - 
 - 
 111 
 111
Total ALLL 
$ 1,236
 229 
 278 
 111 
 1,854
Loans and leases:
(b)
     Individually evaluated for impairment
 $ 980
 1,298 
 544 
 - 
 2,822
  Collectively evaluate
d for impairment 
  48,407
 10,637 
 23,833 
 - 
 82,877
  Loans acquired with dete
riorated credit quality 
  1 6 
 - 
 - 
 7Total portfolio loans and leases 
$ 49,388
 11,941 
 24,377 
 - 
 85,706
(a) Includes $11 related to leveraged leases. 
(b) Excludes $76 of residential mortgage loans measured at fair valu
e, and includes $862 of leveraged leases, net of unearned incom
e.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 107  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 CREDIT RISK PROFILE 
Commercial Portfolio Segment 
For purposes of monitoring the credit quality and risk 
characteristics of its commercial portfolio segment, the Bancorp 
disaggregates the segment into th
e following classes: commercial 
and industrial, commercial mortgage owner-occupied, commercial 

mortgage non-owner occupied, commercial construction and 

commercial leasing.  
To facilitate the monitoring 
of credit quality within the 
commercial portfolio segment, and for purposes of analyzing 

historical loss rates used in the determination of the ALLL for the 
commercial portfolio segment, the 
Bancorp utilizes the following 
categories of credit grades: pa
ss, special mention, substandard, 
doubtful or loss. The five categories, which are derived from 

standard regulatory rating defi
nitions, are assigned upon initial 
approval of credit to borrowers and updated periodically thereafter. 

Pass ratings, which are assigned to those borrowers that do not have 
identified potential or well define
d weaknesses and for which there 
is a high likelihood of orderly repayment, are updated periodically 
based on the size and credit characteristics of the borrower. All 
other categories are updated on a quarterly basis during the month 

preceding the end of the calendar quarter.  
The Bancorp assigns a special mention rating to loans and 
leases that have potential weaknesses that deserve management™s 

close attention. If left uncorrected, these potential weaknesses may, 

at some future date, result in th
e deterioration of the repayment 
prospects for the loan or lease or the Bancorp™s credit position.  
The Bancorp assigns a substandard rating to loans and leases 
that are inadequately protected 
by the current sound worth and 
paying capacity of the borrower or of the collateral pledged. 
Substandard loans and leases have well defined weaknesses or 

weaknesses that could jeopardize the orderly repayment of the debt. 

Loans and leases in this grade also
 are characterized by the distinct 
possibility that the Bancorp will sustain some loss if the deficiencies 

noted are not addressed and corrected. 
The Bancorp assigns a doubtful ra
ting to loans and leases that 
have all the attributes of a substandard rating with the added 
characteristic that the weaknesses make collection or liquidation in 
full, on the basis of currently existi
ng facts, conditions, and values, 
highly questionable and improbable. The possibility of loss is 

extremely high, but because of cer
tain important and reasonable 
specific pending factors that may work to the advantage of and 

strengthen the credit quality of the loan or lease, its classification as 

an estimated loss is deferred until its more exact status may be 

determined. Pending factors may include a proposed merger or 
acquisition, liquidation proceeding, 
capital injection, perfecting liens 
on additional collateral or refinancing plans. Loans and leases classified as 
loss are considered uncollectible 
and are charged off in the period in
 which they are determined to be 
uncollectible. Because loans and leas
es in this category are fully 
charged down, they are not included in the following tables. 
                       The following table summarizes the cred
it risk profile of the Bancorp™s commercial portfolio segment, by class:
                              Special            As of December 31, 2013 ($ in millions)
  Pass 
Mention 
Substandard 
Doubtful 
Total 
Commercial and industrial loans 
$ 36,776 
 1,118 
 1,419 
3    39,316 
 Commercial mortgage owner occupied loans
   3,866 
 209 
 415 
 17 
   4,507 
 Commercial mortgage non-owner occupied loans 
   2,879 
 248 
 431 
 1 
   3,559 
 Commercial construction loans
   855 
 32 
 152 
 - 
   1,039 
 Commercial leases
   3,546 
 56 
 23 
 - 
   3,625 
 Total $ 47,922 
 1,663 
 2,440 
 21 
   52,046 
       Special            As of December 31, 2012
 ($ in millions) 
 Pass 
Mention 
Substandard 
Doubtful 
Total 
Commercial and industrial loans 
$ 33,521 
 1,113 
 1,379 
 25 
   36,038 
 Commercial mortgage owner occupied loans  
  3,934 
 338 
 603 
 1 
   4,876 
 Commercial mortgage non-owner occupied loans  
  2,958 
 449 
 815 
 5 
   4,227 
 Commercial construction loans 
  444 
 59 
 195 
 - 
   698 
 Commercial leases 
  3,483 
 48 
 18 
 - 
   3,549 
 Total 
$ 44,340 
 2,007 
 3,010 
 31 
   49,388 
     Consumer Portfolio Segment 
For purposes of monitoring the credit quality and risk 
characteristics of its consumer portfolio segment, the Bancorp 

disaggregates the segment into the following classes: home equity, 

automobile loans, credit card, an
d other consumer loans and leases. 
The Bancorp™s residential mortgage portfolio segment is also a 

separate class. The Bancorp considers repayment performance as 

the best indicator of credit quality for residential mortgage and 
consumer loans, which includes
 both the delinquency status and 
performing versus nonperforming status of the loans. The 

delinquency status of all residential 
mortgage and consumer loans is 
presented by class in the age analysis section below while the 

performing versus nonperforming status is presented in the table 

below. Residential mortgage loans th
at have principal and interest 
payments that have become past due 150 days are classified as 

nonperforming unless such loans are both well secured and in the 
process of collection. During 
the fourth quarter of 2013, the 
Bancorp modified its nonaccrual policy for home equity loans and 
lines of credit. Home equity loans an
d lines of credit are reported as 
nonperforming if principal or interest has been in default for 90 

days or more unless the loan is bo
th well secured and in the process 
of collection. Home equity loans and 
lines of credit that have been 
in default for 60 days or more are also reported as nonperforming if 

the senior lien has been in defaul
t 120 days or more, unless the loan 
is both well secured and in the process of collection. As a result of 
the modification of the nonaccrual policy for home equity loans and 
lines of credit, $46 million of home equity loans and lines of credit 

were reclassified from performing to nonperforming status during 

the fourth quarter of 2013. In addition, the Bancorp modified its 

charge-off policy during the fourth
 quarter of 2013. Home equity 
loans and lines of credit that have 
been in default 120 days or more 
are assessed for a charge-off if the 
senior lien has been in default 
120 days or more. Residential mortgage, home equity, automobile 
and other consumer loans and leases
 that have been modified in a 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  108  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TDR and subsequently become past due 90 days are classified as 
nonperforming, unless the loan is both well secured and in the 

process of collection. Credit card loans that have been modified in a 

TDR are classified as nonperforming unless such loans have a 
sustained repayment performance of six months or greater and are 
reasonably assured of repayment in accordance with the 

restructured terms. Well secured loans are collateralized by 

perfected security interests in real and/or personal property for 
which the Bancorp estimates proceeds from sale would be sufficient 
to recover the outstanding princip
al and accrued interest balance of 
the loan and pay all costs to se
ll the collateral. The Bancorp 
considers a loan in the process of collection if collection efforts or 
legal action is proceeding and the Bancorp expects to collect funds 
sufficient to bring the loan current or recover the entire outstanding 

principal and accrued interest balance.  
 The following table presents a summary of 
the Bancorp™s residential mortgage and consu
mer portfolio segments disaggregated into
 performin
g versus nonperforming status as of December 31:
                       2013 
 2012 
 ($ in millions) 
 Performing 
Nonperforming 
Performing 
Nonperforming 
Residential mortgage loans
(a) $ 12,423 
 165 
 11,704 
 237 
  Home equity 
  9,153 
 93 
 9,965 
 53 
  Automobile loans 
  11,982 
 2 
 11,970 
 2 
  Credit card 
  2,261 
 33 
 2,058 
 39 
  Other consumer loans and leases 
  364 
 - 
 289 
 1 
  Total 
$ 36,183 
 293 
 35,986 
 332 
(a) Excludes $92
 and $76 of loans measured at fair value at 
December 31, 2013
 and 2012, respectively. 
Age Analysis of Past Due Loans and Leases   The following tables summarize the Bancorp™s recorded in
vestment in portfolio loans and leases by age and class:
                         Past Due 
            Current 
   90 Days  
       90 Days Past 
As of December 31, 2013
 Loans and  
30-89  
and 
Total  
Total Loans 
Due and Still 
($ in millions) 
Leases(c) Days
(c) 
Greater
(c) Past Due
 and Leases 
Accruing Commercial: 
                  Commercial and industrial loans  
$39,118 
  53 
  145   198   39,316 
   - 
    Commercial mortgage owner occupied loans 
4,423 
  15   69 
  84 
  4,507 
   - 
    Commercial mortgage non-owner occupied loans 
3,515 
  9   35 
  44 
  3,559 
   - 
    Commercial construction loans 
1,010    - 
  29 
  29 
  1,039 
   - 
    Commercial leases 
3,620 
   - 
  5   5   3,625 
   - 
  Residential mortgage loans
(a)(b) 12,284   73 
  231 
  304 
  12,588   66 
  Consumer:
                           Home equity 
9,058 
  102   86 
  188   9,246 
   - 
    Automobile loans 
11,919   55 
  10   65 
  11,984 
  8     Credit card 
2,225 
  36 
  33 
  69 
  2,294 
  29 
    Other consumer loans and leases  
362 
  2    - 
  2   364 
   - 
  Total portfolio loans and leases
(a) $87,534 
  345 
  643 
  988 
  88,522 
  103   (a)
 Excludes $92 of loans measured at fair value. 
(b)
 Information for current residential mortgage loans includes advance
s made pursuant to servicing agreements for GNMA mortgage po
ols whose repayments are insured by the Federal Housing 
Administration or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affa
irs. As of December 31, 2013, $81 of these loans were 30-89 days
 past due and $378 were 90 days or more past due. The 
Bancorp recognized $5 million of losses for the year ended December
 31, 2013 due to claim denials and curtailments associated w
ith these advances.  
(c) Includes accrual and nonaccrual loans and leases. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 109  Fifth Third Bancorp 
        Past Due 
            Current 
   90 Days  
       90 Days Past 
As of December 31, 2012 
Loans and  
30-89 
and 
Total  
Total Loans 
Due and Still 
($ in millions) 
Leases(c) Days
(c) 
Greater
(c) Past Due
 and Leases 
Accruing Commercial: 
                  Commercial and industrial loans  
$35,826 
46 
  166 
212 
  36,038 
  1     Commercial mortgage owner occupied loans 
4,752 
29 
  95 
124 
  4,876 
  22 
    Commercial mortgage non-owner occupied loans 
4,094 
21 
  112 
133 
  4,227 
   - 
    Commercial construction loans 
622 
 - 
  76 
76 
  698 
  1     Commercial leases 
3,546 
2   1 3   3,549 
   - 
  Residential mortgage loans
(a)(b) 11,547 
87 
  307 
394 
  11,941 
  75 
  Consumer: 
                      Home equity 
9,782 
126 
  110 
236 
  10,018 
  58 
    Automobile loans 
11,900 
62 
  10 
72 
  11,972 
  8     Credit card 
2,025 
38 
  34 
72 
  2,097 
  30 
    Other consumer loans and leases  
287 
2   1 3   290 
   - 
  Total portfolio loans and leases
(a) $84,381 
  413 
  912 
  1,325 
  85,706 
  195 
  (a) Excludes $76 of loans measured at fair value. 
(b) Information for current residential mortgage loans includes advance
s made pursuant to servicing agreements for GNMA mortgage po
ols whose repayments are insured by the Federal Housing 
Administration or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affa
irs. As of December 31, 2012, $80 of these loans were 30-89 days
 past due and $414 were 90 days or more past due. The 
Bancorp recognized $2 million of losses for the year ended December
 31, 2012 due to claim denials and curtailments associated w
ith these advances.  
(c) Includes accrual and nonaccrual loans and leases. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  110  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Impaired Loans and Leases 
Larger commercial loans and leases
 included within aggregate 
borrower relationship balances ex
ceeding $1 million that exhibit 
probable or observed credit weakne
sses are subject to individual 
review for impairment. The Bancor
p also performs an individual 
review on loans and leases that are restructured in a troubled debt 

restructuring. The Bancorp considers the current value of 

collateral, credit quality of any guar
antees, the loan structure, and 
other factors when evaluating whether an individual loan or lease 
is impaired. Other factors may include the geography and industry 

of the borrower, size and financial condition of the borrower, 

cash flow and leverage of the borrower, and the Bancorp™s 
evaluation of the borrower™s management. Smaller balance 
homogenous loans or leases that are collectively evaluated for 

impairment are not included in the following tables.  
 The following table summarizes the Bancorp™s 
impaired loans and leases (by class) that were subject to individual review, which
 includes all loans 
and leases restructured in a troubled debt restructuring as December 31:
                         Unpaid 
      2013 
     Principal 
Recorded     ($ in millions) 
    Balance 
Investment 
Allowance 
With a related allowance recorded: 
                Commercial: 
              Commercial and industrial loans  
      $870 
  759 
145    Commercial mortgage owner occupied loans
(b)       85 
  74 
11    Commercial mortgage non-owner occupied loans 
      154   134   14    Commercial construction loans 
      68 
  54 
  5    Commercial leases 
      12   12    -  Restructured residential mortgage loans 
      1,081 
  1,052 
139  Restructured consumer: 
                Home equity 
      377 
  373 
39    Automobile loans 
      23 
  23 
3    Credit card 
      59 
  58 
11  Total impaired loans and leases with a related allowance 
      $2,729 
  2,539 
  367
  With no related allowance recorded: 
                 Commercial: 
                Commercial and industrial loans  
      $181   177    -    Commercial mortgage owner occupied loans 
      106   98 
   -    Commercial mortgage non-owner occupied loans 
      154   147    -    Commercial construction loans 
      77 
  63 
   -    Commercial leases 
      14   14    -  Restructured residential mortgage loans 
      313 
  273 
   -  Restructured consumer: 
                    Home equity 
      43 
  39 
   -    Automobile loans 
      3   3    -  Total impaired loans and leases with no related allowance 
      891 
  814 
   -  Total impaired loans and leases 
      $3,620 
  3,353 
a(a)
 367
  (a) Includes $869
, $1,241
 and 
$444
, respectively, of commercial, residential mort
gage and consumer TDRs on accrual status; 
$228
, $84
 and 
$52
, respectively, of commercial, residential mortgage and 
consumer TDRs on nonaccrual status.  
(b) Excludes five restructured nonaccrual loans at 
December 31, 2013
 associated with a consolidated variable in
terest entity, in which the Bancorp has no 
continuing credit risk
 due to the risk be
ing 
assumed by a third party, with an unpaid principal balance of 
$28
, a recorded investment of 
$28
, and an allowance of 
$11
.   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 111  Fifth Third Bancorp 
     Unpaid 
      2012  
Principal 
Recorded     ($ in millions) 
Balance 
Investment 
Allowance 
With a related allowance recorded: 
          Commercial: 
          Commercial and industrial loans  
$263 
  194 
65    Commercial mortgage owner occupied loans 
54 
  43 
5    Commercial mortgage non-owner occupied loans 
215 
  160 
16    Commercial construction loans 
48 
  37 
5    Commercial leases 
8   8 5  Restructured residential mortgage loans 
1,067 
  1,023 
137
  Restructured consumer: 
          Home equity 
400 
  396 
46    Automobile loans 
31 
  30 
4    Credit card 
74 
  74 
12    Other consumer loans and leases  
2   2 -  Total impaired loans and leases with a related allowance 
$2,162 
  1,967 
  295
  With no related allowance recorded: 
          Commercial: 
          Commercial and industrial loans  
$207 
  169 
  -    Commercial mortgage owner occupied loans 
107 
  99 
  -    Commercial mortgage non-owner occupied loans 
209 
  199 
  -    Commercial construction loans 
109 
  67 
  -    Commercial leases 
5   5   -  Restructured residential mortgage loans 
326 
  275 
  -  Restructured consumer: 
              Home equity 
40 
  39 
  -    Automobile loans 
3   3   -  Total impaired loans and leases with no related allowance 
1,006 
  856 
  -  Total impaired loans and leases 
$3,168 
  2,823 
a(a) 295
  (a) Includes $431, $1,175 and $480, respectively, of commercial, residential mortgage and consumer TDRs on accrual status; $177, $1
23 and $64, respectively, of comme
rcial, residential mortgage and 
consumer TDRs on nonaccrual status.   
The following table summarizes the Bancorp™s average impaired lo
ans and leases and interest income by class for the year ended 
December 31:                                2013 
   2012 
           Average 
Interest 
  Average 
Interest 
          Recorded Income 
  Recorded Income 
 ($ in millions) 
     Investment 
Recognized 
  Investment 
Recognized 
 Commercial: 
                         Commercial and industrial loans  
  $517 
  16    448 
   4    Commercial mortgage owner occupied loans
(a)   146   4    156 
   4    Commercial mortgage non-owner occupied loans 
  321 
  8    361 
   10    Commercial construction loans 
  108   4    160 
   2    Commercial leases 
  11    -    10 
    -  Restructured residential mortgage loans
   1,311   53    1,276 
   47  Restructured consumer:
                        Home equity 
  429 
  23    439 
   24    Automobile loans 
  29 
  1    38 
   1    Credit card 
  68 
  4    80 
   4    Other consumer loans and leases  
  2    -    1     -  Total impaired loans and leases
   $2,942 
  113    2,969 
   96  (a) Excludes five restructured nonaccrual loans at 
December 31, 2013
 associated with a consolidated variable in
terest entity, in which the Bancorp has no 
continuing credit risk
 due to the risk be
ing 
assumed by a third party, with an unpaid principal balance of 
$28
, an average recorded investment of 
$29
, and an allowance of 
$11
.   
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  112  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Nonperforming Assets 
Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans and leases for whic
h ultimate collectability of the full amount of the principal 
and/or interest is 
uncertain; commercial and credit card TDRs which have not yet met 
the requirements to be classified as a performing asset; cons
umer TDRs 
which are 90 days past due based on the restructured terms unless 
the loan is both well-secured an
d in the process of collection
; and certain othe
r assets, including OREO and other repossessed property. The follow
ing table summarizes the Bancorp™s nonperforming loans and lea
ses, by class, 
as of December 31:
         ($ in millions) 
2013 
 2012 
 Commercial: 
      Commercial and industrial loans  
$281 
  330 
  Commercial mortgage owner occupied loans
(a)  95 
  125 
  Commercial mortgage non-owner occupied loans 
48 
  157 
  Commercial construction loans 
29 
  76 
  Commercial leases 
5   9 Total commercial loans and leases 
458 
  697 
  Residential mortgage loans 
166   237 
Consumer: 
      Home equity 
93 
  53 
  Automobile loans 
1   2   Credit card 
33 
  39 
  Other consumer loans and leases  
-   1 Total consumer loans and leases 
127   95 
  Total nonperforming loans and leases
(b)(c) $751 
  1,029 
  OREO and other repossessed property
(d) 229 
  257 
  (a) Excludes $21
 of restructured nonaccrual loans at 
December 31, 2013
 associated with a consolidated variable interest entity in wh
ich the Bancorp has no continuing 
credit risk due the risk being 
assumed by a third party.  
(b) Excludes $6 
and $29 of nonaccrual loans held for sale at 
December 31, 2013
 and 2012, respectively. 
(c) Includes $10
 of nonaccrual government insured commercial loans 
whose repayments are insured by the SBA at both 
December 31, 2013 
and 2012, and 
$2 and $1 of restructured nonaccrual 
government insured commercial loans at 
December 31, 2013
 and 2012, respectively.  
(d) Excludes $77
 and $72 of OREO related to government insured loans at 
December 31, 2013
 and 2012, respectively. 
 Troubled Debt Restructurings  
If a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty, the Bancorp may 

consider, in certain circumstances, modifying the terms of their loan 

to maximize collection of amou
nts due. Within each of the 
Bancorp™s loan classes, TDRs typically involve either a reduction of 

the stated interest rate of the loan, an extension of the loan™s 

maturity date(s) with a stated rate lower than the current market rate 
for a new loan with similar risk, or in limited circumstances, a 
reduction of the principal balance of
 the loan or the loan™s accrued 
interest. Modifying the terms of loans may result in an increase or 

decrease to the ALLL depending upon the terms modified, the 

method used to measure the ALLL fo
r a loan prior to modification, 
and whether any charge-offs were recorded on the loan before or at 

the time of modification. Refer to the ALLL section of Note 1 for 

information on the Bancorp™s ALLL methodology. Upon 
modification of a loan, the Bancorp measures the related 
impairment as the difference between the estimated future cash 
flows, discounted at the original e
ffective yield of the loan, expected 
to be collected on the modified lo
an and the carrying value of the 
loan. The resulting measurement may result in the need for minimal 
or no valuation allowance because it is probable that all cash flows 

will be collected under the modified
 terms of the loan. In addition, 
if the stated interest rate was increased in a TDR, the cash flows on 

the modified loan, using the pre-modification interest rate as the 
discount rate, often exceed the recorded investment of the loan.  
Conversely, the Bancorp often reco
gnizes an impairment loss as an 
increase to ALLL upon a modification that reduces the stated 

interest rate on a loan. If a TDR involves a reduction of the 

principal balance of the loan or 
the loan™s accrued interest, that 
amount is charged off to the 
ALLL. At December 31, 2013, the 
Bancorp had $46 million in line of credit commitments and $40 

million in letter of credit commitments to lend additional funds to 
borrowers whose terms have been modified in a TDR compared to 
$28 million and $25 million, respectively, at December 31, 2012.    
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 113  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following table provides a summary of loans modified 
in a TDR by the Bancorp during the year ended December 31:
                     Recorded investment 
Increase         Number of loans 
in loans modified 
(Decrease) Charge-offs 
    modified in a TDR
 in a TDR  
to ALLL upon
recognized upon  
2013 ($ in millions)
(a) during the year(b) 
during the year modification 
modification 
Commercial: 
              Commercial and industrial loans  
146   $604 
   39 
  44    Commercial mortgage owner occupied loans
(c)
 65 
  19    (2)
   -    Commercial mortgage non-owner occupied loans 
59 
  72 
   (7)
   -    Commercial construction loans 
4   34 
   (2)
   -    Commercial leases 
1   2    (5)
   -  Residential mortgage loans
 1,620 
  249 
  28 
   -  Consumer:
                   Home equity 
695 
  37 
   (1)
   -    Automobile loans 
499 
  14   1    -    Credit card 
8,202 
  50 
  7    -  Total portfolio loans and leases
 11,291 
  $1,081 
  58 
  44                     Recorded investment 
Increase         Number of loans 
in loans modified 
(Decrease) Charge-offs 
    modified in a TDR
 in a TDR  
to ALLL upon
recognized upon  
2012 ($ in millions)
(a) during the year(b) 
during the year modification 
modification 
Commercial: 
              Commercial and industrial loans  
108 
  $84 
   (7)
  9    Commercial mortgage owner occupied loans 
67 
  53 
   (8)
  2    Commercial mortgage non-owner occupied loans 
67 
  91 
   (7)
   -    Commercial construction loans 
17 
  38 
   (4)
   -    Commercial leases 
8   7   1    -  Residential mortgage loans
 1,758 
  340 
  35 
   -  Consumer:
                   Home equity 
1,343 
  82 
  1    -    Automobile loans 
1,289 
  23 
  2    -    Credit card 
11,407 
  75 
  11 
   -  Total portfolio loans and leases
 16,064 
  $793 
   24 
  11  (a)
 Excludes all loans and leases held for sale and lo
ans acquired with deteriorated credit quality. 
(b)
 Represents number of loans post-modification.
 (c) Excludes five loans modified in a TDR during the year ended 
December 31, 2013 
associated with a consolidated variable interest entity in
 which the Bancorp has no cont
inuing credit risk due to 
the risk being assumed by a thir
d party. The TDR resulted in a 
$7 increase to the ALLL and a 
$2 charge-off at modification and has a recorded investment of 
$28
.  The Bancorp considers TDRs that become 90 days or more past 
due under the modified terms as subsequently defaulted.  For 
commercial loans not subject to individual review for impairment, 
the historical loss rates that are applied to such commercial loans for 

purposes of determining the allo
wance include historical losses 
associated with subsequent defaults
 on loans previously modified in 
a TDR.  For consumer loans, th
e Bancorp performs a qualitative 
assessment of the adequacy of the consumer ALLL by comparing 

the consumer ALLL to forecasted consumer losses over the 

projected loss emergence period (the forecasted losses include the 
impact of subsequent defaults of consumer TDRs).  When a 
residential mortgage, home equity, auto or other consumer loan that 
has been modified in a TDR subsequently defaults, the present 
value of expected cash flows used in the measurement of the 
potential impairment loss is generally limited to the expected net 

proceeds from the sale of the lo
an™s underlying collateral and any 
resulting impairment loss is reflected
 as a charge-off or an increase 
in ALLL.  When a credit card loan
 that has been modified in a TDR 
subsequently defaults, the calcu
lation of the impairment loss is 
consistent with the Bancorp™s calculation for other credit card loans 

that have become 90 days or more past due.  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  114  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following table provides a summary of
 subsequent defaults that occurred duri
ng the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 a
nd within 12
months of the restructuring date:
             Number of 
Recorded December 31, 2013 ($ in millions)
(a)
 Contracts
 Investment 
Commercial: 
      Commercial and industrial loans  
6   $11     Commercial mortgage owner occupied loans 
7   1   Residential mortgage loans
 375 
  58 
  Consumer:
           Home equity 
65 
  4     Automobile loans 
4    - 
    Credit card 
1,768 
  11   Total portfolio loans and leases
 2,225 
  $85 
              Number of 
Recorded December 31, 2012 ($ in millions)
(a) Contracts
 Investment 
Commercial: 
      Commercial and industrial loans  
2   $3     Commercial mortgage owner occupied loans 
3   2     Commercial mortgage non-owner occupied loans 
2   1     Commercial construction loans 
2   3   Residential mortgage loans
 332 
  57 
  Consumer:
           Home equity 
101 
  7     Automobile loans 
42 
   - 
    Credit card (revised) 
1,832 
  13 
  Total portfolio loans and leases
 2,316 
  $86 
  (a)
 Excludes all loans and leases held for sale and lo
ans acquired with deteriorated credit quality. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 115  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 7. BANK PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT 
The following is a summary of bank premises and equipment at December 31:
       ($ in millions)
  Estimated Useful Life
2013 
2012
Land and improvements 
 $838 
 841
Buildings 
 2 to 30 yrs.
 1,763 
 1,692
Equipment  1 to 30 yrs.
 1,581 
 1,460
Leasehold improvements 
 5 to 30 yrs.
 397 
 386
Construction in progress 
   118  141
Accumulated depreciation and amortizatio
n    (2,166) (1,978)
Total  
   $2,531 
2,542
    Depreciation and amortization expense related to bank premises 
and equipment was $245 million 
in 2013, $233 million in 2012 and 
$224 million in 2011.  For the years ended 2013 and 2012, the Bancorp recorded 
charges of $6 million and $21 million, respectively, of lower of cost 

or market adjustments associat
ed with bank premises. These 
adjustments were generally based on appraisals of the underlying 

bank premises less estimated selling costs. The recognized 
impairment losses were recorded in other noninterest income in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income.  
Gross occupancy expense for cancelable and noncancelable 
leases was $98 million in 2013 and $99 million in 2012 and 2011, 

which was reduced by rental income from leased premises of $16 

million in 2013, $17 million in 2012 
and $19 million in 2011.  The 
Bancorp™s subsidiaries have entered into a number of noncancelable 

and capital lease agreements with respect to bank premises and 
equipment. 
 The following table provides the annual futu
re minimum payments under capital leases and noncancelable operating leases at Dece
mber 31, 2013:       ($ in millions)
   Operating Leases
Capital LeasesYear ending December 31, 
       2014 
$91 
8      2015 
88 
7      2016 
82 
4      2017 
75 
 - 
     2018 
71 
 - 
Thereafter 339 
 - 
Total minimum lease payments 
$746 
19 
Less: Amounts representing interest 
   - 
1 Present value of net mi
nimum lease payments 
   - 
18 
 8. GOODWILL Business combinations entered into 
by the Bancorp typically include 
the acquisition of goodwill. Acquisition activity includes acquisitions 

in the respective period in addition to purchase accounting 

adjustments related to previous 
acquisitions. During the fourth 
quarter of 2008, the Bancorp determined that the Commercial 

Banking and Consumer Lending segments™ goodwill carrying 
amounts exceeded their associated implied fair values by $750 
million and $215 million, respectively. The resulting $965 million 

goodwill impairment charge was reco
rded in the fourth quarter of 
2008 and represents the total amount of accumulated impairment 

losses as of December 31, 2013.  Changes in the net carrying amount of goodwill, by reporting
 unit, for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follo
ws:                Commercial 
Branch Consumer 
Investment 
  ($ in millions) 
 Banking 
Banking 
Lending 
Advisors Total 
Net carrying value as of December 31, 2011 
$613
1,656 
             -
148 
2,417
Acquisition activit
y  - (1)
             -
             -
 (1)
Net carrying value as of December 31, 2012 
$613
1,655 
             -
148 
2,416
Acquisition activit
y   - - 
             -
           -
 -Net carrying value as of December 31, 2013
 $6131,655 
             -
148 2,416
   The Bancorp completed its annual goodwill impairment test as of 
September 30, 2013 by performing a qualitative assessment of 

goodwill at the reporting unit 
level to determine whether any 
indicators of impairment existed. 
In performing this qualitative 
assessment, the Bancorp evaluated events and circumstances since 
the date of the last quantitative impairment test including the results 
of that test, macroeconomic conditions, banking industry and 

market conditions, and key financial metrics of the Bancorp as well 
as segment and overall Bancorp financial performance. After 
assessing the totality of the events and circumstances, the Bancorp 

determined that it was not more likely than not that the fair value of 

each of its reporting units was le
ss than their carrying amounts and, 
therefore, the first and second st
eps of the quantitative goodwill 
impairment test were deemed unnecessary. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  116  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 9. INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
Intangible assets consist of core 
deposit intangibles, customer lists, 
non-compete agreements and cardholder relationships. Intangible 

assets are amortized on either a straight-line or an accelerated basis 
over their estimated useful lives. In
tangible assets have an estimated 
remaining weighted-average life at December 31, 2013 of 4.1 years.  
  The details of the Bancorp™s intangible assets are shown in the following table:
                        Gross Carrying 
Accumulated  
Valuation 
Net Carrying 
($ in millions)  
Amount 
Amortization 
 Allowance  Amount 
As of December 31, 2013
                   Core deposit intangibles 
$154 (141) - 
13   Other 45 
(39) - 
6 Total intangible assets
 $199 (180) - 
19 As of December 31, 2012
   Core deposit intangibles 
$180 
(160)
 - 
20 
  Other 44 
(37)
 - 
7 Total intangible assets 
$224 
(197)
 - 
27 
    As of December 31, 2013, all of the Bancorp™s intangible assets 
were being amortized. Amortization expense recognized on 
intangible assets for the yea
rs ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 
2011 was $8 million, $13 million and $22 million, respectively. 
 The Bancorp's projections of amortization 
expense shown below are based on existing 
asset balances as of December 31, 2013. Fut
ure 
amortization expense may vary from these 
projections. Estimated amortization expense for the years ending December 31, 2014 thr
ough 2018 is 
as follows:                ($ in millions) 
       Total 
2014  
      $5   2015  
         2   2016  
         2   2017  
         2   2018  
         2   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 117  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 10. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES 
The Bancorp, in the normal course of business, engages in a variety 
of activities that involve VIEs, which are legal entities that lack 
sufficient equity to finance their acti
vities, or the equity investors of 
the entities as a group lack any of 
the characteristics of a controlling 
interest. The primary beneficiary of a VIE is generally the enterprise 

that has both the power to direct th
e activities most significant to 
the economic performance of the VIE and the obligation to absorb 

losses or receive benefits that coul
d potentially be significant to the 
VIE. For certain investment funds,
 the primary beneficiary is the 
enterprise that will absorb a majo
rity of the fund™s expected losses 
or receive a majority of the fund
™s expected residual returns. The 
Bancorp evaluates its interest in cert
ain entities to determine if these 
entities meet the definition of a VIE and whether the Bancorp is the 
primary beneficiary and should consolidate the entity based on the 

variable interests it held both at inception and when there is a 

change in circumstances that re
quires a reconsideration. If the 
Bancorp is determined to be the primary beneficiary of a VIE, it 

must account for the VIE as a consolidated subsidiary. If the 

Bancorp is determined not to be the primary beneficiary of a VIE 

but holds a variable interest in the 
entity, such variable interests are 
accounted for under the equity method of accounting or other 
accounting standards as appropriate.  Consolidated VIEs
              The following table provides a summary of
 the classifications of consolidated VIE assets, liabilities and noncontrolling intere
sts included in the 
Bancorp™s Consolidated Balance Sheets as of:
                   Automobile Loan 
CDC     December 31, 2013 ($ in millions)
  Securitization 
Investments Total 
Assets: 
             Cash and due from banks 
$ 49 
   - 
 49 
  Commercial mortgage loans
   - 
 48 
48 
  Automobile loans
(a) 
    1,010 
   - 
 1,010 
  ALLL  (2)  (13)  (15)  Other assets   11 
   2 
13   Total assets
 $ 1,068 
  37 
  1,105   Liabilities:
          Other liabilities
 $ 1 
   - 
 1 
  Long-term debt
   1,048 
   - 
 1,048 
  Total liabilities
 $ 1,049 
   - 
 1,049 
  Noncontrolling interests
   - 
   37 
37 
  (a)  Net of $52 of unamortized fees and discounts.  
   CDC     December 31, 2012 ($ in millions) 
 Investments Total 
Assets: 
         Commercial mortgage loans 
$ 50 
50 
  ALLL  (5)
  (5)
  Other assets 
  3 
3   Total assets 
$48 
  48 
  Noncontrolling interests 
  48 
48 
         Automobile Loan Securitization 
In August of 2013, the Bancorp 
transferred approximately $1.3 
billion in fixed-rate consumer automobile loans to a bankruptcy 
remote trust which was deemed to be a VIE. The primary purposes 

for which the VIE was created were to issue asset-backed securities 

with varying levels of credit subordination and payment priority, as 

well as residual interests, and to provide the Bancorp with access to 

liquidity for its originated loans. The Bancorp retained residual 

interests in the VIE and, therefore, has an obligation to absorb 

losses and a right to receive bene
fits from the VIE that could 
potentially be significant to the VIE. In addition, the Bancorp 
retained servicing rights for the 
underlying loans and, therefore, 
holds the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most 

significantly impact the economic performance of the VIE. As a 

result, the Bancorp concluded that it is the primary beneficiary of 

the VIE and, therefore, has consolidated this VIE. The assets of the 

VIE are restricted to the settlement of the notes and other 

obligations of the VIE. Third-party holders of the notes do not 
have recourse to the general assets of the Bancorp.    
The economic performance of the VIE is most significantly 
impacted by the performance of the underlying loans. The principal 
risks to which the VIE are exposed include credit risk and 
prepayment risk. The credit and prepayment risks are managed 
through credit enhancements in the form of reserve accounts, 
overcollateralization, excess interest on the loans and the 

subordination of certain classes of 
asset-backed securities to other 
classes. 
 
CDC Investments 
CDC, a wholly owned indirect 
subsidiary of the Bancorp, was 
created to invest in projects to create affordable housing, revitalize 

business and residential areas, and preserve historic landmarks. 

CDC generally co-invests with ot
her unrelated companies and/or 
individuals and typically makes investments in a separate legal entity 
that owns the property under devel
opment. The entities are usually 
formed as limited partnerships an
d LLCs, and CDC typically invests 
as a limited partner/investor member in the form of equity 

contributions. The economic performance of the VIEs is driven by 

the performance of their underlying investment projects as well as 

the VIEs™ ability to operate in
 compliance with the rules and 
regulations necessary for the qualification of tax credits generated by 
equity investments. Typically, the general partner or managing 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  118  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 member will be the party that has th
e right to make decisions that 
will most significantly impact the economic performance of the 

entity. CDC serves as the managing member of certain LLCs 

invested in business revitalizat
ion projects. The Bancorp has 
provided an indemnification guarantee to the investor member of 
these LLCs related to the qualification of tax credits generated by 

the investor member™s investment. Accordingly, the Bancorp 

concluded that it is the primary 
beneficiary and, therefore, has 
consolidated these VIEs. As a 
result, the investor members™ 
interests in these VIEs are presen
ted as noncontrolling interests in 
the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements. This presentation 
includes reporting separately the equity attributable to the 
noncontrolling interests in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and 

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity and reporting 

separately the comprehensive income attributable to the 
noncontrolling interests in the Consolidated Statements of 
Comprehensive Income and the net 
income attributable to the 
noncontrolling interests in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 

The Bancorp™s maximum exposure relat
ed to these indemnifications 
at December 31, 2013 and 2012 was $21 million and $18 million, 

respectively, which is based on an amount required to meet the 

investor members™ defined target rate of return.
  Non-consolidated VIEs
              The following tables provide a summary of assets and liabilities
 carried on the Bancorp™s Consolidated Balance Sheets related t
o non-consolidated 
VIEs for which the Bancorp holds an interest, but is not the prim
ary beneficiary of the VIE, as well as the Bancorp™s maximum ex
posure to losses
associated with its interests in the entities: 
                   Total  
Total  
Maximum  
As of December 31, 2013 ($ in millions)
  Assets 
Liabilities 
Exposure  
CDC investments 
$1,436 
  407 
  1,436 
  Private equity investments
  204 
   - 
294 
  Loans provided to VIEs
  1,830 
  - 2,792 
  Automobile loan securitization
   4 
   - 
 4 
  Restructured loans 
  1   -  1 
      Total  
Total  
Maximum  
As of December 31, 2012
 ($ in millions) 
 Assets Liabilities 
Exposure  
CDC investments 
$1,442
  394 
  1,442 
  Private equity investments 
 189
   - 
310 
  Loans provided to VIEs 
 1,622
  -2,465 
  Restructured loans  
 2  -2              CDC Investments 
As noted previously, CDC typically invests in VIEs as a limited 

partner or investor member in the form of equity contributions. The 

Bancorp has determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of 

these VIEs because it lacks the power
 to direct the activities that 
most significantly impact the economic performance of the 
underlying project or the VIEs™ ability to operate in compliance with 
the rules and regulations necessary for the qualification of tax 

credits generated by equity invest
ments. This power is held by the 
general partners/managing members who exercise full and exclusive 

control of the operations of the VIEs. Accordingly, the Bancorp 

accounts for these investments under the equity method of 

accounting.  The Bancorp™s funding requirements are limited to its invested 
capital and any additional unfunded
 commitments for future equity 
contributions. The Bancorp™s maximum exposure to loss as a result 

of its involvement with the VIEs is limited to the carrying amounts 

of the investments, including the unfunded commitments. The 

carrying amounts of these investments, which are included in other 

assets in the Consolidated Balance 
Sheets, and the liabilities related 
to the unfunded commitments, which are included in other liabilities 

in the Consolidated Balance Sheets,
 are included in the previous 
tables for all periods presented. 
The Bancorp has no other liquidity arrangements or obligations to purchase assets of the VIEs that 

would expose the Bancorp to a loss. In certain arrangements, the 

general partner/managing member of the VIE has guaranteed a 

level of projected tax credits to be received by the limited 

partners/investor members, thereby minimizing a portion of the 

Bancorp™s risk. 
 
 Private Equity Investments 
The Bancorp, through a wholly owned subsidiary, invests as a 

limited partner in private equity funds which provide the Bancorp 

an opportunity to obtain higher rate
s of return on invested capital, 
while also creating cross-selling 
opportunities for the Bancorp™s 
commercial products. Each of the limited partnerships has an 
unrelated third-party general partner responsible for appointing the 
fund manager. The Bancorp has not
 been appointed fund manager 
for any of these private equity funds. The funds finance primarily all 

of their activities from the pa
rtners™ capital contributions and 
investment returns. Under the VIE consolidation guidance still 

applicable to the funds, the Bancorp has determined that it is not 

the primary beneficiary of the funds because it does not absorb a 

majority of the funds™ expected losses or receive a majority of the 
funds™ expected residual returns. 
Therefore, the Bancorp accounts 
for its investments in these limited partnerships under the equity 

method of accounting. 
The Bancorp is exposed to losses arising from negative 
performance of the underlying investments in the private equity 

funds. As a limited partner, the Bancorp™s maximum exposure to 

loss is limited to the carrying amounts of the investments plus 

unfunded commitments. The carrying amounts of these 
investments, which are included in 
other assets in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheets, are included in the previous tables. Also, as of 

December 31, 2013 and 2012, the unfunded commitment amounts 

to the funds were $90 million and $121 million, respectively. The 

Bancorp made capital contributions
 of $31 million and $61 million 
to private equity funds during 2013 and 2012, respectively. 

Additionally, in response to the issuance of the Volcker Rule in the 

fourth quarter of 2013, the Bancor
p recognized $4 million of OTTI 
on its investments in private equity funds. See Note 27 for further 
information. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 119  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Loans Provided to VIEs
 The Bancorp has provided funding to certain unconsolidated VIEs 

sponsored by third parties. These 
VIEs are generally established to 
finance certain consumer and small business loans originated by 
third parties. The entities are pr
imarily funded through the issuance 
of a loan from the Bancorp or syndication through which the 

Bancorp is involved. The sponsor/administrator of the entities is 

responsible for servicing the underlying assets in the VIEs. Because 

the sponsor/administrator, not the Bancorp, holds the servicing 

responsibilities, which include th
e establishment and employment of 
default mitigation policies and procedures, the Bancorp does not 
hold the power to direct the acti
vities most significant to the 
economic performance of the entity and, therefore, is not the 

primary beneficiary. The principal risk to which these 
entities are exposed is credit 
risk related to the underlying
 assets. The Bancorp™s maximum 
exposure to loss is equal to the carrying amounts of the loans and 

unfunded commitments to the VIEs. The Bancorp™s outstanding 

loans to these VIEs, included
 in commercial loans in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets, are incl
uded in the previous tables for 
all periods presented. Also, as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the 

Bancorp™s unfunded commitments 
to these entities were $962 
million and $843 million, respectively. The loans and unfunded 

commitments to these VIEs are in
cluded in the Bancorp™s overall 
analysis of the ALLL and reserve for unfunded commitments, 

respectively. The Bancorp does not provide any implicit or explicit 

liquidity guarantees or principal 
value guarantees to these VIEs. 
 Automobile Loan Securitization 

In March of 2013, the Bancorp recognized an immaterial loss on the 

securitization and sale of certain automobile loans with a carrying 

amount of approximately $509 m
illion. The securitization and the 
resulting sale of all underlying
 securities qualified for sale 
accounting. The Bancorp has concluded that it is not the primary 

beneficiary of the trust because it has neither the obligation to 
absorb losses of the entity that co
uld potentially be significant to the 
VIE nor the right to receive benefits from the entity that could 

potentially be significant to the VIE. The Bancorp is not required 

and does not currently intend to
 provide any additional financial 
support to the trust. Investors and creditors only have recourse to 

the assets held by the trust. The interest the Bancorp holds in the 

VIE relates to servicing rights th
at are included in the Bancorp™s 
Consolidated Balance Sheets. The 
maximum exposure to loss is 
equal to the carrying value of the servicing asset. 
 Restructured Loans As part of loan restructuring efforts, the Bancorp received equity 

capital from certain borrowers to facilitate the restructuring of the 

borrower™s debt. These borrowers meet the definition of a VIE 

because the Bancorp was involved 
in their refinancing and because 
their equity capital is insufficien
t to fund ongoing operations. These 
restructurings were intended to provide the VIEs with serviceable 
debt levels while providing the Bancorp an opportunity to maximize 
the recovery of the loans. The VIEs finance their operations from 

earned income, capital contributions
, and through restructured debt 
agreements. Assets of the VIEs are used to settle their specific 

obligations, including loan payments due to the Bancorp. The 

Bancorp continues to maintain its relationship with these VIEs as a 

lender and minority shareholder, however, it is not involved in 

management decisions and does not ha
ve sufficient voting rights to 
control the membership of the respective boards. Therefore, the 
Bancorp accounts for its equity investments in these VIEs under the 

equity method or cost method based on its percentage of ownership 

and ability to exercise significant influence. The Bancorp™s maximum exposure to loss as a result of its 
involvement with these VIEs is limit
ed to the equity investments, 
the principal and accrued interest 
on the outstanding loans, and any 
unfunded commitments. Due to the VIEs™ short-term cash deficit 
projections at the restructuring dates, the Bancorp determined that 

the initial fair value of its equity investments in these VIEs was zero. 

As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Bancorp™s carrying value of 

these equity investments was 
immaterial to the Bancorp™s 
Consolidated Balance Sheets. Additionally, the Bancorp had 

outstanding loans to these VIEs, included in commercial loans in 

the Consolidated Balance Sheets, whic
h are included in the previous 
tables for all periods presented. The Bancorp had no unfunded loan 
commitments to these VIEs as of December 31, 2013 and 2012. 

The loans to these VIEs are incl
uded in the Bancorp™s overall 
analysis of the ALLL. The Bancorp does not provide any implicit or 

explicit liquidity guarantees or pr
incipal value guarantees to these 
VIEs. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  120  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 11. SALES OF RECEIVABLES AND SERVICING RIGHTS 
Automobile Loan Securitization 
In March of 2013, the Bancorp recognized an immaterial loss on the 
securitization and sale of certain automobile loans with a carrying 
amount of approximately $509 million. The Bancorp utilized a 

securitization trust to facilitate th
e securitization process. The trust 
issued asset-backed s
ecurities in the form of notes and equity 
certificates, with varying levels of credit subordination and payment 

priority. The Bancorp does not hold any of the notes or equity 

certificates issued by the trust, an
d the investors in these securities 
have no credit recourse to the Banc
orp™s assets for failure of debtors 
to pay when due. As part of the sale, the Bancorp obtained servicing 
responsibilities and recognized a serv
icing asset with an initial fair 
value of $6 million. 
 Residential Mortgage Loan Sales 

The Bancorp sold fixed and adjustable rate residential mortgage 

loans during 2013, 2012, and 2011. 
In those sales, the Bancorp 
obtained servicing responsibilities and the investors have no 

recourse to the Bancorp™s other asse
ts for failure of debtors to pay 
when due. The Bancorp receives annual servicing fees based on a 

percentage of the outstanding balance. The Bancorp identifies 
classes of servicing assets based on financial asset type and interest 
rates.   
 Information related to residential mortgage loan sales and the Ba
ncorp™s mortgage banking activity, which is included in mortga
ge banking net 
revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income, for the years ended December 31 is as follows:
        ($ in millions)
  2013 
 2012 
 2011  
Residential mortgage loan sales 
$ 21,529 
21,574 
14,733 
   Origination fees and gains on loan sales 
  453 
821 
396 
Servicing fees 
  251 
250 
234 
  Servicing Assets The following table presents changes in the servicing assets re
lated to residential mortgage and automobile loans for the years
 ended December 31:
      ($ in millions)
   2013 
 2012 
 Carrying amount before valuation allowance as of the beginning of the period 
$  1,358 
1,239 
Servicing obligations that result from the transfer of residential mortgage loans 
  244 
305 
Servicing obligations that result from the transfer of automobile loans 
  6 -Amortization 
  (168)(186)
Carrying amount before valuation allowance 
   1,440 
1,358 
Valuation allowance for servicing assets: 
      Beginning balance 
  (661)(558)
    Recovery of (provision for) MSR impairment 
  192 (103)
    Ending balance 
  (469)(661)
Carrying amount as of the end of the period 
$ 971 
697 
    Amortization expense recognized on servicing rights
 for the years 
ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $168 million, $186 
million and $135 million, respectively. The Bancorp's projections of 
amortization expense shown below are based on existing asset 
balances as of December 31, 2013. Future amortization expense 
may vary from these projections. 
 Estimated amortization expense for the years en
ding December 31, 2014 through 2018 is as follows:
         ($ in millions) 
 Total 
2014  
$95 
  2015  
 88 
  2016  
 81 
  2017  
 76 
  2018  
 71 
    Temporary impairment or impairmen
t recovery, affected through a 
change in the MSR valuation allowance, is captured as a component 

of mortgage banking net revenue in the Consolidated Statements of 

Income. The Bancorp maintains a non-qualifying hedging strategy 
to manage a portion of the risk associated with changes in the value 
of the MSR portfolio. This strategy includes the purchase of free-

standing derivatives and various available-for-sale securities. The 
interest income, mark-to-market ad
justments and gain or loss from 
sale activities associated with 
these portfolios are expected to 
economically hedge a portion of the change in value of the MSR 

portfolio caused by fluctuating discount rates, earnings rates and 
prepayment speeds.
 The fair value of the servicing asset is based on 
the present value of expected
 future cash flows.    
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 121  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following table displays the beginning and ending fair v
alue of the servicing assets for the years ended December 31:
       ($ in millions)
   2013 
 2012 
 Fixed rate residential mortgage loans: 
      Beginning balance 
$ 664 
649
    Ending balance 
  929 
664
Adjustable rate residential mortgage loans: 
      Beginning balance 
  33 
32    Ending balance 
  38 
33Fixed rate automobile loans: 
      Beginning balance 
  --    Ending balance 
  4   -   The following table presents activity related to valuations of
 the MSR portfolio and the impact of the non-qualifying hedging s
trategy, which is
included in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31:
        ($ in millions)
  2013 
 2012 
 2011  
Securities gains, net - non-qualifying hedges on MSRs 
$13  3 
 9 
Changes in fair value an
d settlement of free-standi
ng derivatives purchased 
     to economically hedge the MSR portfolio (Mortgage banking net revenue) 
 (30)63 
344 
Recovery of (provision for) MSR impairment (Mortgage banking net revenue) 
 192 (103)
(242)
 As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the key economic assumptions used 
in measuring the interests in residential mortgage loans tha
t continued tobe held by the Bancorp at the date of sale or securitization 
resulting from transactions completed during the years ended Decem
ber 31 were as 
follows:                                           2013 
  2012 
   Rate 
Weighted-
Average Life 
(in years) 
Prepayment Speed (annual)Discount Rate 
(annual) 
Weighted-
Average 
Default rate
 Weighted-
Average Life 
(in years) 
Prepayment Speed (annual) 
Discount Rate 
(annual) 
Weighted-
Average 
Default rate
Residential mortgage loans: 
    Servicing assets 
Fixed 
7.3 
9.1% 10.2 % N/A6.99.6 
% 10.4 
% N/A    Servicing assets 
Adjustable 
3.6 
22.8
11.5 N/A3.822.0 
11.4 
N/A    Based on historical credit experience, expected credit losses for 
residential mortgage loan servicing assets have been deemed 
immaterial, as the Bancorp sold the majority of the underlying loans 

without recourse. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Bancorp 
serviced $69.2 billion and $62.5 b
illion, respectively, of residential 
mortgage loans for other investors. The value of MSRs that 
continue to be held by the Bancorp is subject to credit, prepayment 

and interest rate risks on the sold financial assets.   
                                At December 31, 2013, the sensitivity of the current fair value of 
residual cash flows to immediate 10%, 20% and 50% adverse cha
nges in
prepayment speed assumptions and immediate 10% and 20% ad
verse changes in other assumptions are as follows:
                                               Prepayment    Residual Servicing  
            Speed Assumption   Cash Flows       Fair 
Weighted-
Average 
Life (in 
   Impact of Adverse Change 
on Fair Value 
Discount 
Impact of Adverse 
Change on Fair 
Value 
($ in millions)
(a) Rate  Value 
years) Rate 
10% 
20% 
50% 
Rate 
10% 
20% 
Residential mortgage loans: 
      Servicing assets 
Fixed 
$929 
6.8 
10.3 
%$(36)
(69)
(157)
10.4
%$(37)
(72)
    Servicing assets 
Adjustable 
 38 
3.2 
25.6 
(2)
(3)
(7)
11.6
(1)
(2)
(a) The impact of the weighted-average default rate on the current fa
ir value of residual cash flows for all scenarios is immateria
l.   These sensitivities are hypothetical an
d should be used with caution. 
As the figures indicate, changes in fair value based on these 
variations in the assumptions ty
pically cannot be extrapolated 
because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change 

in fair value may not be linear. The Bancorp believes variations of 

these levels are reasonably possible; however, there is the potential 

that adverse changes in key assumptions could be even greater. 

Also, in the previous table, the eff
ect of a variation in a particular 
assumption on the fair value of the interests that continue to be held 
by the Bancorp is calculated without changing any other 
assumption; in reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in another (for example, increases in ma
rket interest rates may result in 
lower prepayments), which might 
magnify or counteract these 
sensitivities. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  122  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 12. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
The Bancorp maintains an overall risk management strategy that 
incorporates the use of derivative 
instruments to reduce certain risks 
related to interest rate, prepaymen
t and foreign currency volatility. Additionally, the Bancorp holds derivative instruments for the 

benefit of its commercial customers and for other business 

purposes. The Bancorp does not enter into unhedged speculative 

derivative positions. 

 The Bancorp™s interest rate risk management strategy involves 

modifying the repricing characteristics of certain financial 

instruments so that changes in interest rates do not adversely affect 
the Bancorp™s net interest margin and cash flows. Derivative 
instruments that the Bancorp may use as
 part of its interest rate risk 
management strategy include interest rate swaps, interest rate floors, 

interest rate caps, forward contract
s, options and swaptions. Interest 
rate swap contracts are exchanges of interest payments, such as 

fixed-rate payments for floating-rate payments, based on a stated 

notional amount and maturity date
. Interest rate floors protect 
against declining rates, while interest
 rate caps protect against rising 
interest rates. Forward contracts are contracts in which the buyer 
agrees to purchase, and the seller agrees to make delivery of, a 

specific financial instrument at a predetermined price or yield. 

Options provide the purchaser with 
the right, but not the obligation, 
to purchase or sell a contracted it
em during a specified period at an 
agreed upon price. Swaptions are 
financial instruments granting the 
owner the right, but not the obligation, to enter into or cancel a 

swap.  Prepayment volatility arises mostly from changes in fair value 
of the largely fixed-rate MSR portfolio, mortgage loans and 

mortgage-backed securities. The 
Bancorp may enter into various 
free-standing derivatives (principal-only swaps, interest rate 

swaptions, interest rate floors, mortgage options, TBAs and interest 

rate swaps) to economically hedge 
prepayment volatility. Principal-
only swaps are total return swaps based on changes in the value of 

the underlying mortgage principal-only trust.
 TBAs are a forward 
purchase agreement for a mortgage-backed securities trade whereby 
the terms of the security are undefined at the time the trade is made. 

 Foreign currency volatility occurs as the Bancorp enters into 

certain loans denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative 

instruments that the Bancorp may use to economically hedge these 

foreign denominated loans include foreign exchange swaps and 

forward contracts. 
 The Bancorp also enters into 
derivative contracts (including 
foreign exchange contracts, commodity contracts and interest rate 
contracts) for the benefit of commercial customers and other 

business purposes. The Bancorp may economically hedge significant 

exposures related to these free-standi
ng derivatives by entering into 
offsetting third-party contra
cts with approved, reputable 
counterparties with substantiall
y matching terms and currencies. 
Credit risk arises from the possi
ble inability of counterparties to 
meet the terms of their contracts. The Bancorp™s exposure is limited 
to the replacement value of the contracts rather than the notional, 
principal or contract amounts. Cr
edit risk is minimized through 
credit approvals, limits, counte
rparty collateral and monitoring 
procedures.   The Bancorp™s derivative asse
ts include certain contractual 
features in which the Bancorp requi
res the counterparties to provide 
collateral in the form of cash and s
ecurities to offset changes in the 
fair value of the derivatives, incl
uding changes in the fair value due 
to credit risk of the counterparty. As of December 31, 2013 and 

2012, the balance of collateral held by the Bancorp for derivative 

assets was $514 million and $927 mi
llion, respectively. The credit 
component negatively impacting the fair value of derivative assets 
associated with customer accommo
dation contracts as of December 
31, 2013 and 2012 was $12 million and $18 million, respectively. 

 In measuring the fair value of derivative liabilities, the Bancorp 

considers its own credit risk, taking into consideration collateral 

maintenance requirements of certain
 derivative counterparties and 
the duration of instruments with co
unterparties that do not require 
collateral maintenance. When necessary, the Bancorp posts 

collateral primarily in the form of 
cash and securities to offset 
changes in fair value of the deriva
tives, including changes in fair 
value due to the Bancorp™s credit risk. As of December 31, 2013 and 

2012, the balance of collateral posted by the Bancorp for derivative 

liabilities was $559 million and $785 million, respectively. Certain of 

the Bancorp™s derivative liabilities contain credit-risk related 

contingent features that could 
result in the requirement to post 
additional collateral upon the occurre
nce of specified events. As of 
December 31, 2013 and 2012, the fair value of the additional 
collateral that could be required to be posted as a result of the 
credit-risk related contingent features being triggered was not 

material to the Bancorp™s Cons
olidated Financial Statements.
 The 
posting of collateral has been determined to remove the need for 

further consideration of credit 
risk. As a result, the Bancorp 
determined that the impact of the Bancorp™s credit risk to the 

valuation of its derivative liabilities was immaterial to the Bancorp™s 

Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 The Bancorp holds certain derivative instruments that qualify 
for hedge accounting treatment and 
are designated as either fair 
value hedges or cash flow hedges. Derivative instruments that do 

not qualify for hedge accounting 
treatment, or for which hedge 
accounting is not established, are 
held as free-standing derivatives. 
All customer accommodation derivatives are held as free-standing 

derivatives. 

 The fair value of derivative in
struments is presented on a gross 
basis, even when the derivative 
instruments are subject to master 
netting arrangements. Derivative in
struments with a positive fair 
value are reported in other assets
 in the Consolidated Balance 
Sheets while derivative instruments with a negative fair value are 

reported in other liabilities in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets. Cash 
collateral payables and receivables associated with the derivative 
instruments are not added to or netted against the fair value 

amounts. For further information on offsetting derivatives, see 
Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 123  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following tables reflect the notional amounts and fair values
 for all derivative instruments included in the Consolidated B
alance Sheets as of:
             Fair Value 
   Notional
   Derivative 
Derivative 
December 31, 2013 ($ in millions)
  Amount
   Assets 
Liabilities 
Qualifying hedging instruments
           Fair value hedges:
             Interest rate swaps related to long-term debt
 $ 3,205  
   292 
 13 
   Total fair value hedges
       292 
 13 
   Cash flow hedges:
             Interest rate swaps related to C&I loans
   2,200  
   40 
 21 
   Total cash flow hedges
       40 
 21 
Total derivatives designated as qualifying hedging instruments
       332 
 34 
Derivatives not designated as qualifying hedging instruments 
          Free-standing derivatives - risk management and other business purposes:
             Interest rate contracts related to MSRs
   4,092  
   141 
 14 
     Forward contracts related to held for sale mortgage loans
   1,448  
   13 
 1 
     Stock warrant associated with Vantiv Holding, LLC
   664  
   384 
 - 
     Swap associated with the sale of Visa, Inc. Class B shares
   947  
   - 
 48 
   Total free-standing derivatives - risk management and other business purposes
       538 
 63 
   Free-standing derivatives - customer accommodation:
             Interest rate contracts for customers
   28,112  
   329 
 339 
     Interest rate lock commitments
   924  
   12 
 1 
     Commodity contracts
   3,300  
   66 
 65 
     Foreign exchange contracts
   19,688  
   276 
 252 
   Total free-standing deriva
tives - customer accommodation
       683 
 657 
Total derivatives not designated as qualifying hedging instruments
       1,221 
 720 
Total 
   $   1,553 
 754 
        Fair Value 
   Notional 
Derivative 
Derivative 
December 31, 2012 ($ in millions) 
 Amount
 Assets 
Liabilities 
Qualifying hedging instruments
     Fair value hedges: 
     Interest rate swaps related to long-term debt 
$  2,880 
 558 
 - 
   Total fair value hedges 
 558 
 - 
   Cash flow hedges: 
     Interest rate floors related to C&I loans 
 1,500 
 22 
 - 
     Interest rate swaps related to C&I loans 
 1,000 
 60 
 - 
     Interest rate caps related to long-term debt 
 500 
 - 
 - 
     Interest rate swaps related to long-term debt 
 250 
 - 
 1 
   Total cash flow hedges 
 82 
 1 
Total derivatives designated as qualifying hedging instruments 
 640 
 1 
Derivatives not designated as qualifying hedging instruments
    Free-standing derivatives - risk management and other business purposes: 
     Interest rate contracts related to MSRs 
 10,177 
 219 
 - 
     Forward contracts related to held for sale mortgage loans 
 5,322 
 2 
 14 
     Stock warrant associated with Vantiv Holding, LLC 
 416 
 177 
 - 
     Swap associated with the sale of Visa, Inc. Class B shares 
 644 
 - 
 33 
   Total free-standing derivatives - risk management and other business purposes 
 398 
 47 
   Free-standing derivatives - customer accommodation: 
     Interest rate contracts for customers 
 27,354 
 586 
 602 
     Interest rate lock commitments 
 4,894 
 60 
 - 
     Commodity contracts 
 3,084 
 87 
 82 
     Foreign exchange contracts 
 17,297 
 201 
 183 
     Derivative instruments related to equity linked CDs 
 5 
 - 
 - 
   Total free-standing deriva
tives - customer accommodation 
 934 
 867 
Total derivatives not designated as qualifying hedging instruments 
 1,332 
 914 
Total 
$  1,972 
 915 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  124  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Fair Value Hedges 
The Bancorp may enter into interest
 rate swaps to convert its fixed-
rate funding to floating-rate. Deci
sions to convert fixed-rate funding 
to floating are made primarily through consideration of the 
asset/liability mix of the Bancorp, the desired asset/liability 
sensitivity and interest rate levels. As of December 31, 2013 and 

2012, certain interest rate swaps met
 the criteria required to qualify 
for the shortcut method of accounting. Based on this shortcut 

method of accounting treatment, no ineffectiveness is assumed. For 

interest rate swaps that do not meet the shortcut requirements, an 

assessment of hedge effectiveness using regression analysis was 
performed and such swaps were accounted for using the ﬁlong-
haulﬂ method. The long-haul 
method requires a quarterly 
assessment of hedge effectiveness and measurement of 

ineffectiveness. For interest rate 
swaps accounted for as a fair value 
hedge using the long-haul method, 
ineffectiveness is the difference 
between the changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap and 

changes in fair value of the related hedged item attributable to the 

risk being hedged. The ineffectiveness on interest rate swaps 

hedging fixed-rate funding is reported within interest expense in the 

Consolidated Statements of Income.   
 The following table reflects the change in f
air value of interest rate contracts, desi
gnated as fair value hedges, as well as t
he change in fair value o
f the related hedged items attributable to the risk being he
dged, included in the Consolidated Statements of Income:
           Consolidated Statements of Income 
Caption 
            For the year ended December 31 ($ in millions) 
  2013 
 2012 
 2011  
Interest rate contracts: 
        Change in fair value of interest rate swaps hedging long-term debt 
 Interest on long-term debt 
$  (279)
 (104)
 220 
     Change in fair value of hedged long-term debt attributable to the risk being hedged
 Interest on long-term debt 
   276 
 107 
 (227)
        Cash Flow Hedges 
The Bancorp may enter into interest rate swaps to convert floating-
rate assets and liabilities to fixed ra
tes or to hedge certain forecasted 
transactions. The assets or liabilities may be grouped in 

circumstances where they share the same risk exposure that the 
Bancorp desires to hedge. The Bancorp may also enter into interest 
rate caps and floors to limit cash flow variability of floating rate 

assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2013, all hedges designated 

as cash flow hedges were assessed for effectiveness using regression 

analysis. Ineffectiveness is gene
rally measured as the amount by 
which the cumulative change in the fair value of the hedging 

instrument exceeds the present valu
e of the cumulative change in 
the hedged item™s expected cash flow
s attributable to the risk being 
hedged. Ineffectiveness is reported within other noninterest income 
in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The effective portion of 

the cumulative gains or losses on cash flow hedges are reported 

within accumulated other comprehensive income and are 

reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to 

current period earnings when th
e forecasted transaction affects 
earnings. As of December 31, 2013, the maximum length of time 

over which the Bancorp is hedging 
its exposure to the variability in 
future cash flows is 71 months.  Reclassified gains and losses on interest rate contracts related 
to commercial and industrial loans 
are recorded within interest 
income while reclassified gains and losses on interest rate contracts 

related to long-term debt are record
ed within interest expense in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income. As of December 31, 2013 and 
2012, $13 million and $50 million, respectively, of net deferred 
gains, net of tax, on cash flow hedges were recorded in accumulated 

other comprehensive income in th
e Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
As of December 31, 2013, $25 million in net deferred gains, net of 

tax, recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income are 

expected to be reclassified into 
earnings during the next twelve 
months. This amount could differ from amounts actually recognized 

due to changes in interest rate
s, hedge de-designations, and the 
addition of other hedges subsequent to December 31, 2013.  During 2013, there were no gains or losses reclassified from 

accumulated other comprehensive in
come into earnings associated 
with the discontinuance of cash flow hedges because it was 

probable that the original forecasted transaction would not occur by 

the end of the originally specified time period or within the 

additional period of time as defined by U.S. GAAP. 
 The following table presents the net gains (losses) recorded in
 the Consolidated Statements of Income and the Consolidated Stat
ements o
f Comprehensive Income relating to derivative in
struments designated as cash flow hedges:
      For the year ended December 31 ($ in millions)
  2013 
 2012 
 2011  
Amount of net (losses) gains recognized in OCI 
$ (13)
 37 
 89 
Amount of net gains reclassified from OCI into net income
   44 
 83 
 69 
Amount of ineffectiveness recognized in other noninterest income
   - 
 - 
 1 
  Free-Standing Derivative Instruments Œ Risk Management 
and Other Business Purposes 
As part of its overall risk management strategy relative to its 

mortgage banking activity, the Ba
ncorp may enter into various free-
standing derivatives (principal-only 
swaps, interest rate swaptions, 
interest rate floors, mortgage opti
ons, TBAs and interest rate swaps) 
to economically hedge changes in fair value of its largely fixed-rate 

MSR portfolio. Principal-only sw
aps hedge the mortgage-LIBOR 
spread because these swaps appreciate in value as a result of 

tightening spreads. Principal-only swaps also provide prepayment 

protection by increasing in value when prepayment speeds increase, 

as opposed to MSRs that lose value in a faster prepayment 
environment. Receive fixed/pay floating interest rate swaps and 
swaptions increase in value when interest rates do not increase as 

quickly as expected. 
 The Bancorp enters into forward contracts and mortgage 
options to economically hedge the change in fair value of certain 
residential mortgage loans held for 
sale due to changes in interest 
rates. Interest rate lock commitmen
ts issued on residential mortgage 
loan commitments that will be held
 for sale are also considered free-
standing derivative instruments an
d the interest rate exposure on 
these commitments is economically 
hedged primarily with forward 
contracts. Revaluation gains and losses from free-standing 

derivatives related to mortgage banking activity are recorded as a 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 125  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 component of mortgage banking net revenue in the Consolidated 
Statements of Income. 

 Additionally, as part of the 
Bancorp™s overall risk management 
strategy with respect to minimizing significant fluctuations in 
earnings and cash flows caused by interest rate and prepayment 

volatility, the Bancorp may enter 
into free-standing derivative 
instruments (options, swaptions and 
interest rate swaps). The gains 
and losses on these derivative contracts are recorded within other 

noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 

 In conjunction with the initial sale of the Bancorp™s 51% 

interest in Vantiv Holding, LL
C, the Bancorp received a warrant 
and issued a put option, which ar
e accounted for as free-standing 
derivatives. The put option expired 
as a result of the Vantiv, Inc. 
initial public offering in March of 2012. Refer to Note 27 for further 

discussion of significant inputs
 and assumptions used in the 
valuation of the warrant. 
 In conjunction with the sale of Visa, Inc. Class B shares in 

2009, the Bancorp entered into a to
tal return swap in which the 
Bancorp will make or receive payments based on subsequent 

changes in the conversion rate of the Class B shares into Class A 

shares. This total return swap is
 accounted for as a free-standing 
derivative. See Note 27 for further 
discussion of significant inputs 
and assumptions used in the valuation of this instrument.  
 The net gains (losses) recorded in the Cons
olidated Statements of Income relating to 
free-standing derivative instruments used 
for risk management and other business purposes 
are summarized in the following table:
        Consolidated Statements of Income 
Caption 
           For the year ended December 31 ($ in millions) 
  2013 
 2012 
 2011  
Interest rate contracts: 
        Forward contracts related to mortgage loans held for sale 
 Mortgage banking net revenue 
$  24 
 28 
 (128)
     Interest rate contracts related to MSR portfolio 
 Mortgage banking net revenue 
   (30)
 63 
 345 
     Interest rate swaps related to long-term debt 
 Other noninterest income 
   - 
 2 
 7 
Foreign exchange contracts: 
          Foreign exchange contracts for risk management purposes 
 Other noninterest income 
   5 
 - 
 - 
Equity contracts: 
          Stock warrant associated with Vantiv Holding, LLC 
 Other noninterest income 
   206 
 66 
 32 
     Put option associated with Vantiv Holding, LLC  
 Other noninterest income 
   - 
 1 
 7 
     Swap associated with sale of Visa, Inc. Class B shares 
 Other noninterest income 
   (31)
 (45)
 (83)
      Free-Standing Derivative Instruments Œ Customer 
Accommodation 
The majority of the free-standing derivative instruments the 
Bancorp enters into are for the benefit of its commercial customers. 
These derivative contracts are not designated against specific assets 

or liabilities on the Bancorp™s Consolidated Balance Sheets or to 

forecasted transactions and, th
erefore, do not qualify for hedge 
accounting. These instruments incl
ude foreign exchange derivative 
contracts entered into for the benefit of commercial customers 

involved in international trade to
 hedge their exposure to foreign 
currency fluctuations and commodity
 contracts to hedge such items 
as natural gas and various other de
rivative contracts. The Bancorp 
may economically hedge significant exposures related to these 

derivative contracts entered into for the benefit of customers by 

entering into offsetting contracts with approved, reputable, 

independent counterparties with 
substantially matching terms. The 
Bancorp hedges its interest ra
te exposure on commercial customer 
transactions by executing offsetti
ng swap agreements with primary 
dealers. Revaluation gains and losses on interest rate, foreign 
exchange, commodity and other commercial customer derivative 
contracts are recorded as a component of corporate banking 

revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  
 The Bancorp enters into risk participation agreements, under 
which the Bancorp assumes credit exposure relating to certain 

underlying interest rate deriva
tive contracts. The Bancorp only 
enters into these risk participati
on agreements in instances in which 
the Bancorp has participated in the loan that the underlying interest 

rate derivative contract was designed to hedge. The Bancorp will 

make payments under these agreements
 if a customer defaults on its 
obligation to perform under the terms of the underlying interest rate 

derivative contract. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the total 

notional amount of the risk participation agreements was $1.2 

billion and $1.0 billion, respectively, 
and the fair value was a liability 
of $3 million at December 31, 2013 and $2 million at December 31, 
2012, which is included in interest rate contracts for customers. As 

of December 31, 2013, the risk participation agreements had an 

average remaining life of 3.0 years. 

 The Bancorp™s maximum exposure in the risk participation 

agreements is contingent on the fair value of the underlying interest 

rate derivative contracts in an a
sset position at the time of default. 
The Bancorp monitors the credit risk associated with the underlying 
customers in the risk participation agreements through the same risk 
grading system currently utilized for 
establishing loss reserves in its 
loan and lease portfolio.  Risk ratings of the notional amount of ri
sk participation agreements under this risk
 rating system are summarized in the follow
ing table:      At December 31 ($ in millions)
   2013  
2012 
 Pass 
$  1,153 
 993
Special mention 
   38 
 -Substandard 
   12 
 13
Total 
$  1,203 
 1,006
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  126  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The net gains (losses) recorded in the Consolidated Statements 
of Income relating to free-standing
 derivative instruments used 
for customer 
accommodation are summarized in the following table:
       For the year ended December 31
 Consolidated Statements of 
Income Caption 
       ($ in millions) 
  2013 
 2012 
 2011 
 Interest rate contracts: 
       Interest rate contracts for customers (contract revenue) 
Corporate banking revenue 
$  29
 30 
 28 
     Interest rate contracts for customers (credit losses) 
Other noninterest expense 
   (3)
 (2)
 (13)
     Interest rate contracts for customers (credit portion of fair value adjustment) 
Other noninterest expense 
   7 6 
 13 
     Interest rate lock commitments 
Mortgage banking net revenue 
   58
 417 
 206 
Commodity contracts: 
         Commodity contracts fo
r customers (contract revenue) Corporate banking revenue 
   7 7 
 8 
     Commodity contracts for customers (credit portion of fair value adjustment) 
Other noninterest expense 
   - 2 
 - 
Foreign exchange contracts: 
         Foreign exchange contract
s - customers (contract revenue) 
Corporate banking revenue 
   69
 65 
 47 
     Foreign exchange contracts - customers (credit portion of fair value adjustment) 
Other noninterest expense 
   (2)
 2 
 1 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 127  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 13. OFFSETTING DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
The Bancorp™s derivative transactions are generally governed by 
ISDA Master Agreements and similar arrangements, which include 
provisions governing the setoff of 
assets and liabilities between the 
parties. When the Bancorp has more than one outstanding 

derivative transaction with a single counterparty, the setoff 

provisions contained within these agreements generally allow the 

non-defaulting party the right to re
duce its liability to the defaulting 
party by amounts eligible for seto
ff, including the collateral received 
as well as eligible offsetting tran
sactions with that counterparty, 
irrespective of the currency, place of payment, or booking office. 
The Bancorp™s policy is to present it
s derivative assets and derivative 
liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets on a gross basis, even 

when provisions allowing for setoff are in place. 

 Collateral amounts included in the table below consist primarily 

of cash and highly-rated go
vernment-backed securities.    Gross Amount   
 Gross Amounts Not Offset in the 
       Recognized in the  
 Consolidated Balance Sheet  
    December 31, 2013 ($ in millions)
 Consolidated Balance Sheet
(a) Derivatives
 Collateral
(b)   Net Amount 
                  Assets                    Derivatives 
$ 1,157 
    (321)
   (390)
  $  446
Total assets
  1,157 
    (321)
   (390)
    446
                  Liabilities  
                Derivatives
  753 
    (321)
   (302)
    130
Total liabilities 
 $ 753 
    (321)
   (302)
  $  130
   Gross Amount   
 Gross Amounts Not Offset in the 
       Recognized in the  
 Consolidated Balance Sheet  
    December 31, 2012 ($ in millions) 
Consolidated Balance Sheet
(a) Derivatives
 Collateral
(b)   Net Amount 
                  Assets                    Derivatives 
$ 1,735 
    (291)
   (794)
  $  650
Total assets 
 1,735 
    (291)
   (794)
    650
                  Liabilities 
                 Derivatives 
 915 
    (291)
   (505)
    119
Total liabilities  
$ 915 
    (291)
   (505)
  $  119
(a) Amount does not include the stock warrant associated with Vantiv 
Holding, LLC and interest rate lock commitments because these 
instruments are not subject to master netting or similar 
arrangement. 
(b) Amount of collateral received as an offset to asset positions or
 pledged as an offset to liability positions. Collateral values
 in excess of related derivative amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance 
Sheets were excluded from this table. 
 14. OTHER ASSETS 
The following table provides the components of other assets in
cluded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31:
   ($ in millions)
  2013 
2012 
Partnership investments 
$1,687 
1,657 
Bank owned life insurance 
 1,587 
1,547 
Derivative instruments 
 1,553 
1,972 
Accounts receivable an
d drafts-in-process  1,433 
1,155 
Bankers' acceptances  763 
398 
Investment in Vantiv Holding, LLC 
 423 
563 
Accrued interest receivable 
 361 
369 
OREO and other repossessed personal property 
 306 
329 
Prepaid expenses 
 94 
80 
Income tax receivable 
 12 10 
Other  139 124 
Total  
$8,358 
8,204 
  CDC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Bancorp, was created to 
invest in projects to create af
fordable housing, revitalize business 
and residential areas, and preserve
 historic landmarks, which are 
included above in partnership inve
stments. In addition, Fifth Third 
Capital Holdings, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Bancorp, invests 

as a direct private equity investor and as a limited partner in private 
equity funds, which are included 
above as partnership investments. 
The Bancorp has determined that these partnership investments are 
VIEs and the Bancorp™s investments
 represent variable interests. 
See Note 10 for further information. Additionally, in response to 

the issuance of the Volcker Rule in
 the fourth quarter of 2013, the 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  128  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Bancorp recognized $4 million of OTTI on its investments in 
private equity funds. See Note 27 for further information. 
The Bancorp purchases life insurance policies on the lives of 
certain directors, officers and employees and is the owner and 
beneficiary of the policies. Certain 
BOLI policies have a stable value 
agreement through either a large, we
ll-rated bank or multi-national 
insurance carrier that provides limited cash surrender value 

protection from declines in the value of each policy™s underlying 

investments. See Note 1 for further information. 
       The Bancorp utilizes derivative instruments as part of its overall 

risk management strategy to reduce certain risks related to interest 

rate, prepayment and foreign currency volatility. The Bancorp also 
holds derivatives instruments for the benefit of its commercial 
customers and for other business 
purposes. For further information 
on derivative instruments, see Note 12.  
A bankers™ acceptance is created when a time draft is drawn on 
and accepted by a bank. By accepting the draft, the bank assumes 
the credit risk of the underlying obligor, usually the buyer or the 
seller of goods or their bank, and makes an unconditional promise 

to pay the holder of the draft the amount of the draft at maturity, 

which is generally less than one yea
r from the date of the draft. 
When the Bancorp is the accepting bank, it records the full amount 
of the acceptance in both other assets and other liabilities in the 

Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
In 2009, the Bancorp sold an approximate 51% interest in its 
processing business, Vantiv Holding,
 LLC. As a result of additional 
share sales completed by the Bancorp in 2012 and 2013, the 

Bancorp™s current ownership shar
e in Vantiv Holding, LLC is 
approximately 25%. The Bancorp™s 
ownership in Vantiv Holding, 
LLC is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. See 
Note 19 for further information. 
OREO represents property acquired through foreclosure or 
other proceedings and is carried at the lower of cost or fair value, 

less costs to sell. See Note 1 for further information.
   15. SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS Borrowings with original maturities 
of one year or less are classified 
as short term, and include federal funds purchased and other short-
term borrowings. Federal funds purchased are excess balances in 
reserve accounts held at FRBs that the Bancorp purchased from 
other member banks on an overnight basis. Other short-term 
borrowings include securities sold under repurchase agreements, 
derivative collateral, FHLB advances and other borrowings with 
original maturities of one year or less.   
 A summary of short-term borrowings 
and weighted-average rates follows:
       2013 
  2012 
  ($ in millions) 
 Amount  
Rate 
 Amount
Rate 
As of December 31: 
               Federal funds purchased 
$284 
0.03% 
$901 
0.10% 
     Other short-term borrowings 
 1,380 
0.09  
 6,280 
0.15  
Average for the years ended December 31: 
               Federal funds purchased 
$503 
0.12% 
$560 
0.14% 
     Other short-term borrowings 
 3,024 
0.18  
 4,246 
0.18  
Maximum month-end balance for 
the years ended December 31: 
               Federal funds purchased 
$925 
  $901 
       Other short-term borrowings 
 8,001 
   6,330 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 129  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 16. LONG-TERM DEBT 
The following table is a summary of the Bancorp™s long-term borrowings at December 31:
     ($ in millions)
 Maturity 
Interest Rate 
 2013 
 2012 
 Parent Company
          Senior: 
              Fixed-rate notes 
    $ - 
758 
     Fixed-rate notes 
2016  
3.625% 
 999 
 999 
     Fixed-rate notes 
2022  
3.50% 
 497 
 497 
Subordinated:
(b)               Floating-rate notes
 2016  
0.67% 
 250 
250 
     Fixed-rate notes 
2017  
5.45% 
 558 
583 
     Fixed-rate notes 
2018  
4.50% 
 555 
584 
     Fixed-rate notes 
2024  
4.30% 
 748 
 - 
     Fixed-rate notes 
2038  
8.25% 
 1,150 1,330 
Junior subordinated:
(a)                Fixed-rate notes
       - 
750 
Subsidiaries          Senior: 
              Floating-rate bank notes 
      - 
500 
     Fixed-rate notes 
2016 
1.15% 
 1,000 
 - 
     Fixed-rate notes 
2016 
0.90% 
 400 
 - 
     Floating-rate notes 
2016 
0.75% 
 750 
 - 
     Floating-rate notes 
2016 
0.67% 
 300 
 - 
     Fixed-rate notes 
2018 
1.45% 
 587 
 - 
Subordinated:
(b)                Fixed-rate bank notes
 2015  
4.75% 
 524 
546 
Junior subordinated:
(a)                Floating-rate debentures
 2035  
1.67% - 1.94% 
 51 50 
FHLB advances 2015-2041 
0.05% - 6.87% 
  44 
53 
Notes associated with consolidated VIE: 
              Automobile loan securitization: 
                   Fixed-rate notes 
2014-2020 
   0.25% - 1.30%
  1,048 
 - 
Other 2014-2039 
Varies   172 
185 
Total 
    $9,633 
7,085 
(a) Qualify as Tier I capital for regulatory capital 
purposes. See Note 28 for further information. 
(b) Qualify as Tier II capital for regulatory capital purposes. 
.  The Bancorp pays down long-term debt in accordance with contract
ual terms over maturity periods 
summarized in the above table. 
The aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt obligat
ions (based on final maturity dates) as 
of December 31, 2013, are presented in the f
ollowing table: 
 ($ in millions)
  Parent Subsidiaries 
Total 
     2014 
$ - 
 157 
 157 
     2015 
 - 
 526 
 526 
     2016 
 1,249 
 2,842 
 4,091 
     2017 
 558 
 390 
 948 
     2018 
 555 
 592 
 1,147 
Thereafter  2,395 
 369 
 2,764 
Total  
$ 4,757 
 4,876 
 9,633 
          At December 31, 2013, the Bancorp had outstanding principal 
balances of $9.4 billion, net disc
ounts of $21 million and additions 
for mark-to-market adjustments on 
its hedged debt of $278 million. 
At December 31, 2012, the Bancorp had outstanding principal 

balances of $6.5 billion, net disc
ounts of $20 million and additions 
for mark-to-market adjustments on 
its hedged debt of $555 million. 
The Bancorp was in compliance with all debt covenants at 
December 31, 2013. 
 PARENT COMPANY LONG-TERM BORROWINGS
  Senior Notes 
On January 25, 2011, the Bancorp issu
ed $1.0 billion of senior notes 
to third party investors. The senior notes bear a fixed rate of interest 
of 3.625% per annum. The notes ar
e unsecured, senior obligations 
of the Bancorp. Payment of the fu
ll principal amounts of the notes 
is due upon maturity on January 25,
 2016. The notes are not subject 
to redemption at the Bancorp™s option at any time prior to maturity. 
On March 7, 2012, the Bancorp issued $500 million of senior 
notes to third party investors, and entered into a Supplemental 
Indenture dated March 7, 2012 with the Trustee, which modified 
the existing Indenture for Senior
 Debt Securities dated April 30, 
2008. The Supplemental Indenture 
and the Indenture define the 
rights of the senior notes, which senior notes are represented by a 

Global Security dated as of March 7, 2012. The senior notes bear a 

fixed rate of interest of 3.50% per annum. The notes are unsecured, 

senior obligations of the Bancorp. Payment of the full principal 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  130  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 amounts of the notes will be due 
upon maturity on March 15, 2022. 
The notes are not subject to red
emption at the Bancorp™s option at 
any time until 30 days prior to maturity. 
 Subordinated Debt 
The subordinated floating-rate notes due in 2016 pay interest at 

three-month LIBOR plus 42 bps. The Bancorp has entered into 

interest rate swaps to convert it
s subordinated fixed-rate notes due 
in 2017 and 2018 to floating-rate, which pay interest at three-month 

LIBOR plus 42 bps and 25 bps, respectively, at December 31, 2013. 

The rates paid on the swaps hedgin
g the subordinated floating-rate 
notes due in 2017 and 2018 were 0.66% and 0.49%, respectively, at 
December 31, 2013. Of the $1.0 billion in 8.25% subordinated fixed 
rate notes due in 2038, $705 million were subsequently hedged to 

floating and paid a rate of 3.29% at December 31, 2013.   
On November 20, 2013, the Bancorp issued and sold $750 
million of 4.30% unsecured subordinated fixed rate notes with a 

maturity date of January 16, 2024. These fixed rate notes will be 

redeemable by the Bancorp, in whole or in part, on or after the date 

that is 30 days prior to the maturi
ty date at a redemption price equal 
to 100% of the principal amount pl
us accrued and unpaid interest 
up to, but excluding, the redemption date.  Junior Subordinated Debt 
The Bancorp redeemed all $750 million of the outstanding TruPS 

issued by Fifth Third Capital Trust IV on December 30, 2013. 

These securities had a distribution rate of 6.50% and a scheduled 

maturity date of April 1, 2067. Purs
uant to the terms of the TruPS, 
the securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust IV were redeemable 
within ninety days of a Capital Treatment Event. The Bancorp 

determined that a Capital Treatment Event occurred upon the 

publication of a Final Rule regarding Regulatory Capital Rules 

jointly by the Federal Reserve System and the Office of the 

Comptroller of the Currency. The redemption price was $1,000 per 

security, which reflected 100% of the liquidation amount, plus 

accrued and unpaid distributions to the actual redemption date of 
$10 million. The Bancorp recognized an $8 million loss on the 
extinguishment of this debt within other noninterest expense in the 

Consolidated Statements of Income. 
 SUBSIDIARY LONG-TERM BORROWINGS 
 Senior and Subordinated Debt 
Medium-term senior notes and subordinated bank notes with 

maturities ranging from one year to
 30 years can be issued by the 
Bancorp™s banking subsidiary. On February 25, 2013, the Bancorp™s 

banking subsidiary updated and amended its existing global bank 

note program. The amended global bank note program increased 

the Bank™s capacity to issue its 
senior and subordinated unsecured 
bank notes from $20 billion to $25 billion. As of December 31, 
2013, $21.5 billion was available for future issuance under the global 

bank note program. For the subordin
ated fixed-rate bank notes due 
in 2015, the Bancorp entered into in
terest rate swaps to convert the 
fixed-rate debt into floating rate. At December 31, 2013, the 

weighted-average rate paid on the swaps was 0.34%. 
On February 28, 2013, the Bank issued and sold, under its 
amended bank notes program, $1.3 billion in aggregate principal 
amount of unsecured senior bank
 notes. The bank notes consisted 
of: $600 million of 1.45% senior fixed rate notes due on 

February 28, 2018; $400 million of 0.90% senior fixed rate notes 

due on February 26, 2016; and $300 million of senior floating rate 

notes due on February 26, 2016. Intere
st on the floating rate notes 
is 3-month LIBOR plus 41 bps. These bank notes will be 

redeemable by the Bank, in whole or in part, on or after the date 

that is 30 days prior to the maturi
ty date at a redemption price equal 
to 100% of the principal amount pl
us accrued and unpaid interest 
through the redemption date. The Bank has entered into interest 

rate swaps to convert its fixed-rate senior notes due in 2016 and 

2018 to floating-rate, which pay interest at one-month LIBOR. The 
rates paid on the swaps hedging the fixed-rate notes due in 2016 and 
2018 were 0.65% and 0.77%, respectively, at December 31, 2013. 
On November 20, 2013, the Bank issued and sold, under its 
amended bank notes program, $1.8 billion in aggregate principal 

amount of unsecured senior bank
 notes. The bank notes consisted 
of $1.0 billion of 1.15% senior fixed rate notes due on 

November 18, 2016 and $750 million of senior floating rate notes 

due on November 18, 2016. Interest on the floating rate notes is 3-
month LIBOR plus 51 bps. These bank notes will be redeemable by 
the Bank, in whole or in part, on or after the date that is 30 days 

prior to the maturity date at a redemption price equal to 100% of 

the principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest up to, but 

excluding, the redemption date. 
 Junior Subordinated Debt 
The junior subordinated floating-r
ate bank notes due in 2035 were 
assumed by the Bancorp™s banking subsidiary as part of the 
acquisition of First Charter in 
May 2008. The obligation was issued 
to First Charter Capital Trust I an
d II, respectively. The notes of 
First Charter Capital Trust I and II pay a floating rate at three-

month LIBOR plus 169 bps and 142 bps, respectively. The Bank 

has fully and unconditionally guar
anteed all obligations under the 
acquired trust preferred securities
 issued by First Charter Capital 
Trust I and II.  
 FHLB Advances 
At December 31, 2013, FHLB advances have rates ranging from 

0.05% to 6.87%, with interest pa
yable monthly. The advances are 
secured by certain residential mortga
ge loans and securities totaling 
$17.2 billion. The $44 million in 
remaining advances mature as 
follows: $2 million in 2015, $3 million in 2016, $1 million in 2017, 

$5 million in 2018 and $33 million thereafter. 
 Notes Associated with
 Consolidated VIE 
As previously discussed in Note 10, the Bancorp was determined to 
be the primary beneficiary of a VIE associated with an automobile 

loan securitization completed in th
e third quarter of 2013. As such, 
$1.0 billion of long-term debt related to this VIE was consolidated 

in the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 

31, 2013. Third-party holders of this
 debt do not have recourse to 
the general assets of the Bancorp. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 131  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 17. COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND GUARANTEES 
The Bancorp, in the normal course 
of business, enters into financial 
instruments and various agreements to meet the financing needs of 
its customers. The Bancorp also enters into certain transactions and 

agreements to manage its interest rate and prepayment risks, provide 

funding, equipment and locations fo
r its operations and invest in its 
communities. These instruments and 
agreements involve, to varying 
degrees, elements of credit risk, counterparty risk and market risk in 
excess of the amounts recognized in the Bancorp™s Consolidated 
Balance Sheets. The creditworthiness of counterparties for all 
instruments and agreements is evaluated on a case-by-case basis in 

accordance with the Bancorp™s credit policies. The Bancorp™s 

significant commitments, continge
nt liabilities and guarantees in 
excess of the amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance 

Sheets are discussed in further detail below: 
 Commitments
   The Bancorp has certain commitments to make future payments un
der contracts. The following table reflects a summary of signific
ant commitments as of December 31:
       ($ in millions)
   2013 
 2012 
 Commitments to extend credit 
$  62,050 
 53,403 
Letters of credit 
   4,129 
 4,281 
Forward contracts related to held for sale mortgage loans 
   1,448 
 5,322 
Noncancelable lease obligations 
   746 
 769 
Capital commitments for private equity investments 
   90 
 121 
Purchase obligations 
   84 
 87 
Capital expenditures 
   33 
 29 
Capital lease obligations 
   19 
 24 
  Commitments to extend credit 
Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend, typically 

having fixed expiration dates or ot
her termination clauses that may 
require payment of a fee. Since many of the commitments to extend 

credit may expire without being 
drawn upon, the total commitment 
amounts do not necessarily represen
t future cash flow requirements. 
The Bancorp is exposed to credit risk in the event of 
nonperformance by the counterparty for the amount of the 
contract. Fixed-rate commitments 
are also subject to market risk 
resulting from fluctuations in interest rates and the Bancorp™s 
exposure is limited to the repla
cement value of those commitments. 
As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Bancorp had a reserve for 

unfunded commitments, including letters of credit, totaling $162 

million and $179 million, respectively, included in other liabilities in 

the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Bancorp monitors the credit 

risk associated with commitments to extend credit using the same 
risk rating system utilized within its loan and lease portfolio.  
 Risk ratings under this risk rating system are 
summarized in the following table as of December 31:
      ($ in millions)
   2013  
2012 
 Pass 
$  61,364 
 52,812 
Special mention 
   369 
 370 
Substandard 
   316 
 221 
Doubtful 
   1 
 - 
Total 
$  62,050 
 53,403 
  Letters of credit
 Standby and commercial letters of credit are conditional commitments
 issued to guarantee the performance of a customer to a thi
rd party and as 
summarized in the following table expire as of December 31, 2013:
   ($ in millions)
    Less than 1 year
(a) $ 1,899 
1 - 5 years
(a)    2,173 
Over 5 years 
  57 
Total 
$ 4,129 
(a) Includes $121 and $4 issued on behalf of commercial customers to 
facilitate trade payments in U.S. dollars and foreign currenci
es which expire less than one year 
and between one and five years, 
respectively.   
 Standby letters of credit accounted for 97% of total letters of credit 

at December 31, 2013 compared to 99% at December 31, 2012 and 
are considered guarantees in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 
Approximately 48% and 49% of the total standby letters of credit 

were fully secured as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 

In the event of nonperformance by the customers, the Bancorp has 

rights to the underlying collater
al, which can include commercial 
real estate, physical plant and property, inventory, receivables, cash 
and marketable securities. At December 31, 2013 and 2012 the 
reserve related to these standby letters of credit was $2 million and 
$4 million, respectively, and is included in the total reserve for 

unfunded commitments. The Bancorp monitors the credit risk 

associated with letters of credit using the same risk rating system 

utilized within its loan and lease portfolio.  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  132  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Risk ratings under this risk rating system are 
summarized in the following table as of December 31:
      ($ in millions)
   2013  
2012 
 Pass 
$  3,651 
 3,902 
Special mention 
   99 
 129 
Substandard 
   355 
 223 
Doubtful 
   24 
 27 
Total 
$  4,129 
 4,281 
    At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Bancorp had outstanding 
letters of credit that were suppor
ting certain securities issued as 
VRDNs. The Bancorp facilitates financing for its commercial 

customers, which consist of companies and municipalities, by 

marketing the VRDNs to investors. The VRDNs pay interest to 

holders at a rate of interest th
at fluctuates based upon market 
demand. The VRDNs generally have long-term maturity dates, but 
can be tendered by the holder for 
purchase at par value upon proper 
advance notice. When the VRDNs are tendered, a remarketing 

agent generally finds another investor to purchase the VRDNs to 

keep the securities outstanding 
in the market. As of December 31, 
2013 and 2012, total VRDNs in which the Bancorp was the 

remarketing agent or were supported by a Bancorp letter of credit 

were $2.1 billion and $2.8 billion of which FTS acted as the 

remarketing agent to issuers on $1.8 billion and $2.5 billion, 
respectively. As remarketing agent, FTS is responsible for finding 
purchasers for VRDNs that are put by investors. The Bancorp 

issued letters of credit, as a credit enhancement, on $1.5 billion and 

$2.0 billion to the VRDNs remarketed by FTS, in addition to $300 

million and $345 million in VRDNs remarketed by third parties at 

December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectivel
y. These letters of credit 
are included in the total letters of credit balance provided in the 

previous table.  
 Forward contracts to sell mortgage loans 

The Bancorp enters into forward contracts to economically hedge 

the change in fair value of certain residential mortgage loans held 

for sale due to changes in interest rates. The outstanding notional 

amounts of these forward contracts are included in the summary of 

significant commitments table above for all periods presented. 

 Noncancelable lease obligations and other commitments 
The Bancorp™s subsidiaries have entered into a number of 

noncancelable lease agreements. The minimum rental commitments 

under noncancelable lease agreements
 are shown in the summary of 
significant commitments table. The Bancorp has also entered into a 

limited number of agreements for work related to banking center 

construction and to purchase goods or services.  

 Contingent Liabilities 
 
Private mortgage reinsurance 
For certain mortgage loans originated by the Bancorp, borrowers 

may be required to obtain PMI provided by third-party insurers. In 

some instances, these insurers cede a portion of the PMI premiums 

to the Bancorp, and the Bancorp provides reinsurance coverage 

within a specified range of the total PMI coverage. The Bancorp™s 
reinsurance coverage typically ranges from 5% to 10% of the total 
PMI coverage. The Bancorp™s maximum exposure in the event of 

nonperformance by the underlying borrowers is equivalent to the 

Bancorp™s total outstanding reinsurance coverage, which was $37 

million at December 31, 2013 and $58 million at December 31, 

2012. As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Bancorp maintained a 

reserve of $10 million and $18 million, respectively, related to 

exposures within the reinsurance 
portfolio which was included in 
other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. During 2009, the Bancorp suspended the practice of providing reinsurance of private 
mortgage insurance for newly originated mortgage loans. In the 

second quarter of 2011, the Bancorp allowed one of its third-party 

insurers to terminate its reinsurance agreement with the Bancorp, 

resulting in the Bancorp releasin
g collateral to the insurer in the 
form of investment securities and other assets with a carrying value 

of $5 million, and the insurer assuming the Bancorp™s obligations 
under the reinsurance agreement, resulting in a decrease to the 
Bancorp™s reserve liability of $11 million and a decrease in the 

Bancorp™s maximum exposure of $27 
million. In the fourth quarter 
of 2012, the Bancorp allowed one of its third-party insurers to 

terminate its reinsurance agreement with the Bancorp, resulting in 

the insurer assuming the Bancorp™s obligations under the 

reinsurance agreement, resulting in a decrease to the Bancorp™s 

reserve liability of $2 million and a decrease in the Bancorp™s 
maximum exposure of $3 million. 
 
Legal claims 

There are legal claims pending against the Bancorp and its 

subsidiaries that have arisen in 
the normal course of business. See 
Note 18 for additional information regarding these proceedings. 

 Guarantees 
The Bancorp has performance obligations upon the occurrence of 
certain events under financial guarantees provided in certain 

contractual arrangements as discu
ssed in the following sections. 
 
Residential mortgage loans sold with representation and warranty provisions 
Conforming residential mortgage loans sold to unrelated third 

parties are generally sold with representation and warranty 

provisions. A contractual liability aris
es only in the event of a breach 
of these representations and warranties and, in general, only when a 
loss results from the breach. The Bancorp may be required to 

repurchase any previously sold loan or indemnify (make whole) the 

investor or insurer for which the representation or warranty of the 

Bancorp proves to be inaccurate
, incomplete or misleading.   
 The Bancorp establishes a residential mortgage repurchase 

reserve related to various represen
tations and warranties that reflects management™s estimate of losses ba
sed on a combination of factors. 
The Bancorp™s estimation process requires management to make 
subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently 

uncertain, such as, future demand
 expectations, economic factors 
and the specific characteristics of the loans subject to repurchase. 

Such factors incorporate historic
al investor audit and repurchase 
demand rates, appeals success rates, historical loss severity and any 

additional information obtained fr
om the GSEs regarding future 
mortgage repurchase and file request criteria. At the time of a loan 
sale, the Bancorp records a representation and warranty reserve at 
the estimated fair value of the Bancorp™s guarantee and continually 

updates the reserve during the life of the loan as losses in excess of 

the reserve become probable and reasonably estimable. The 

provision for the estimated fair value of the representation and 

warranty guarantee arising from the 
loan sales is recorded as an 
adjustment to the gain on sale, which is included in other 

noninterest income at the time of sale. Updates to the reserve are 
recorded in other noninterest expense. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 133  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  During the fourth quarter of 2013, the Bancorp settled certain 
repurchase claims related to mortgage loans originated and sold to 

FHLMC prior to January 1, 2009 for $25 million, after paid claim 
credits and other adjustments. The settlement removes the 
Bancorp™s responsibility to repurchase or indemnify FHLMC for 
representation and warranty violations on any loan sold prior to 

January 1, 2009 except in limited circumstances.  

 As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Bancorp maintained 

reserves related to loans sold with representation and warranty 

provisions totaling $44 million 
and $110 million, respectively, 
included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
The Bancorp uses the best information available to it in 
estimating its mortgage repres
entation and warranty reserve, however, the estimation process is inherently uncertain and 
imprecise and, accordingly, losses in excess of the amounts accrued 

as of December 31, 2013, are reasonably possible. The Bancorp 
currently estimates that it is reasonably possible that it could incur 
losses related to mortgage represen
tation and warranty provisions in 
an amount up to approximately 
$47 million in excess of amounts 
reserved. This estimate was derived by modifying the key 

assumptions discussed above to 
reflect management's judgment 
regarding reasonably possible adverse changes to those assumptions. 
The actual repurchase losses could vary significantly from the 

recorded mortgage representation and warranty reserve or this 
estimate of reasonably possibly lo
sses, depending on the outcome of 
various factors, including those noted above. 
  The following table summarizes activity in the re
serve for representation and warranty provisions:
  ($ in millions)
  2013 
2012 
Balance, beginning of period 
$ 110 
 55 
   Net additions to the reserve 
  7 
 107 
   Losses charged against the reserve 
  (73)
 (52)
Balance, end of period 
$ 44 
 110 
 The following table provides a rollforward of unresolved claims by claimant type for the year ended December 31, 2013:
         GSE   Private Label 
 ($ in millions) 
Units
 Dollars
Units
Dollars
Balance, beginning of period 
 294 
$ 48 
 124 
$ 19 
   New demands 
 1,962 
  259 
 237 
  4 
   Loan paydowns/payoffs 
 (20)
  (3)
 (6)
  (1)
   Resolved demands 
 (1,972)
  (263)
 (322)
  (17)
Balance, end of period 
 264 
$ 41 
 33 
$ 5 
 The following table provides a rollforward of unresolved claims by claimant type for the year ended December 31, 2012:
         GSE   Private Label 
 ($ in millions) 
Units
 Dollars
Units
Dollars
Balance, beginning of period 
 328 
$ 47 
 109 
$ 19 
   New demands 
 2,519 
  333 
 230 
  7 
   Loan paydowns/payoffs 
 (42)
  (7)
 (2)
  - 
   Resolved demands 
 (2,511)
  (325)
 (213)
  (7)
Balance, end of period 
 294 
$ 48 
 124 
$ 19 
      Residential mortgage loans sold with credit recourse The Bancorp sold certain residential mortgage loans in the 

secondary market with credit recourse. In the event of any customer 

default, pursuant to the credit recourse provided, the Bancorp is 
required to reimburse the third party. The maximum amount of 
credit risk in the event of nonperformance by the underlying 

borrowers is equivalent to the 
total outstanding balance. In the 
event of nonperformance, the Bancorp has rights to the underlying 

collateral value securing the loan. 
The outstanding balances on these 
loans sold with credit recourse were $579 million and $662 million 

at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and the delinquency 

rates were 4.4% at December 31, 2013 and 5.9% at December 31, 
2012. The Bancorp maintained an estimated credit loss reserve on 
these loans sold with credit reco
urse of $16 million at December 31, 
2013 and $20 million at December 31, 2012 recorded in other 

liabilities in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheets. To determine the 
credit loss reserve, the Bancorp used an approach that is consistent 

with its overall approach in esti
mating credit losses for various 
categories of residential mortgage 
loans held in its loan portfolio.   Margin accounts 
FTS, a subsidiary of the Bancorp,
 guarantees the collection of all 
margin account balances held by its brokerage clearing agent for the 

benefit of its customers. FTS is responsible for payment to its 
brokerage clearing agent for any loss, liability, damage, cost or 
expense incurred as a result of cu
stomers failing to comply with 
margin or margin maintenance 
calls on all margin accounts. The 
margin account balance held by th
e brokerage clearing agent was 
$12 million at December 31, 2013 and $17 million at December 31, 

2012. In the event of any customer default, FTS has rights to the 

underlying collateral provided. Given the existence of the underlying 

collateral provided and negligible
 historical credit losses, the 
Bancorp does not maintain a loss reserve related to the margin 
accounts. 
 
Long-term borrowing obligations 
The Bancorp had certain fully and unconditionally guaranteed long-

term borrowing obligations issued by wholly-owned issuing trust 

entities of $50 million and $800 million as of December 31, 2013 

and 2012, respectively.  See Note 16 for further information on 
these long-term borrowing obligations.  
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  134  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Visa litigation The Bancorp, as a member bank of Visa prior to Visa™s 

reorganization and IPO (the ﬁIPOﬂ) of its Class A common shares 

in 2008, had certain indemnification 
obligations pursuant to Visa™s 
certificate of incorporation and by
-laws and in accordance with their 
membership agreements. In accordance 
with Visa™s by-laws prior to 
the IPO, the Bancorp could have 
been required to indemnify Visa 
for the Bancorp™s proportional share of losses based on the pre-IPO 

membership interests. As part of its reorganization and IPO, the 

Bancorp™s indemnification obligati
on was modified to include only 
certain known litigation (the ﬁCovered Litigationﬂ) as of the date of 

the restructuring. This modification triggered a requirement to 
recognize a $3 million liability for the year ended December 31, 
2007 equal to the fair value of the indemnification obligation. 

Additionally during 2007, the Bancorp recorded $169 million for its 

share of litigation formally settled by Visa and for probable future 

litigation settlements. In conjunction with the IPO, the Bancorp 

received 10.1 million of Visa™s Class B shares based on the 

Bancorp™s membership percentage in Visa prior to the IPO. The 

Class B shares are not transferable (other than to another member 
bank) until the later of the third anniversary of the IPO closing or 
the date which the Covered Litigation has been resolved; therefore, 

the Bancorp™s Class B shares were classified in other assets and 

accounted for at their carryover 
basis of $0. Visa deposited $3 
billion of the proceeds from the IPO into a litigation escrow 

account, established for the purpose of funding judgments in, or 

settlements of, the Covered Litigati
on. If Visa™s litigation committee 
determines that the escrow accoun
t is insufficient, then Visa will 
issue additional Class A shares and deposit the proceeds from the 
sale of the shares into the litig
ation escrow account. When Visa 
funds the litigation escrow account, 
the Class B shares are subject to 
dilution through an adjustment in the conversion rate of Class B 

shares into Class A shares. Du
ring 2008, the Bancorp recorded 
additional reserves of $71 million for probable future settlements 

related to the Covered Litigation and recorded its proportional share 

of $169 million of the Visa escrow account net against the 
Bancorp™s litigation reserve. 
 During 2009, Visa announced 
it had deposited an additional 
$700 million into the litigation escrow account. As a result of this 

funding, the Bancorp recorded it
s proportional share of $29 million 
of these additional funds as a reduction to its net Visa litigation 

reserve liability and a reduction to noninterest expense. Later in 

2009, the Bancorp completed the sale of Visa, Inc. Class B shares 

for proceeds of $300 million. As part of this transaction the 
Bancorp entered into a total return swap in which the Bancorp will 
make or receive payments based on subsequent changes in the 

conversion rate of the Class B shares into Class A shares. The swap 

terminates on the later of the third anniversary of Visa™s IPO or the 

date on which the Covered Litigation is settled. The Bancorp 

calculates the fair value of the swap based on its estimate of the 

probability and timing of certain Covered Litigation settlement 

scenarios and the resulting payments related to the swap. The 
counterparty to the swap as a result of its ownership of the Class B 
shares will be impacted by dilutive adjustments to the conversion 

rate of the Class B shares into Class A shares caused by any Covered 

Litigation losses in excess of the litigation escrow account. If actual 

judgments in, or settlements of, th
e Covered Litigation significantly 
exceed current expectations, then a
dditional funding by Visa of the 
litigation escrow account and the resulting dilution of the Class B 

shares could result in a scenario where the Bancorp™s ultimate 
exposure associated with the Covered Litigation (the ﬁVisa 
Litigation Exposureﬂ) exceeds the 
value of the Class B shares 
owned by the swap counterparty (th
e ﬁClass B Valueﬂ). In the event 
the Bancorp concludes that it is 
probable that the Visa Litigation 
Exposure exceeds the Class B Value,
 the Bancorp would record a 
litigation reserve liability and a corresponding amount of other 
noninterest expense for the amount of the excess. Any such 

litigation reserve liability would be separate and distinct from the 

fair value derivative liability associated with the total return swap. 
 As of the date of the Bancorp™s sale of Visa Class B shares and 
through December 31, 2013, the Bancorp has concluded that it is 

not probable that the Visa Litiga
tion Exposure will exceed the Class 
B value. Based on this determinat
ion, upon the sale of Class B 
shares, the Bancorp reversed its net Visa litigation reserve liability 

and recognized a free-standing deriva
tive liability associated with the 
total return swap with an initial fair
 value of $55 million. The sale of 
the Class B shares, recognition of th
e derivative liability and reversal 
of the net litigation reserve liability resulted in a pre-tax benefit of 
$288 million ($187 million after-tax) recognized by the Bancorp for 

the year ended December 31, 2009. In the second and fourth 

quarters of 2010, Visa funded an additional $500 million and $800 

million, respectively, into the es
crow account which resulted in 
further dilution in the conversion 
of Class B shares into Class A 
shares and required the Bancorp to make cash payments of $20 

million and $35 million, respectively, (each of which reduced the 
swap liability) to the swap counte
rparty in accordance with the 
terms of the swap contract. In the second quarter of 2011, Visa 

funded an additional $400 million into
 the litigation escrow account. 
Upon Visa™s funding of the litigation escrow account in the second 

quarter of 2011, along with additional terms of the total return 

swap, the Bancorp made a $19 milli
on cash payment (which reduced 
the swap liability) to the swap co
unterparty. During the fourth 
quarter of 2011, Visa announced it
 decided to fund an additional 
$1.565 billion into the litigation es
crow account which increased the 
swap liability approximately $54 m
illion. Upon Visa™s funding of the 
litigation escrow account in the first quarter of 2012, along with 

additional terms of the total return swap, the Bancorp made a $75 

million cash payment (which reduced the swap liability) to the swap 

counterparty. On July 24, 2012, 
Visa funded an additional $150 
million into the litigation escrow a
ccount which resulted in further 
dilution in the conversion of Class B shares into Class A shares and 
required the Bancorp to make a $6 million cash payment (which 
reduced the swap liability) to the 
swap counterparty during the 
quarter ended September 30, 2012. The fair value of the swap 

liability was $48 million and $33 million as of December 31, 2013 

and 2012, respectively. Refer to Note 18 for further information. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 135  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 18. LEGAL AND REGULATORY PROCEEDINGS 
During April 2006, the Bancorp was added as a defendant in a 
consolidated antitrust class action lawsuit originally filed against 
Visa®, MasterCard® and several other major financial institutions in 
the United States District Court 
for the Eastern District of New 
York. The plaintiffs, merchants operating commercial businesses 

throughout the U.S. and trade associations, claim that the 

interchange fees charged by card-issuing banks are unreasonable and 

seek injunctive relief and unspecified damages. In addition to being 

a named defendant, the Bancorp is also subject to a possible 
indemnification obligation of Visa as discussed in Note 17 and has 
also entered into judgment and lo
ss sharing agreements with Visa, 
MasterCard and certain other named defendants. In October 2012, 

the parties to the litigation ente
red into a settlement agreement. The 
court entered a Class Settlement Preliminary Approval Order in 

November 2012. Pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement, 

the Bancorp paid $46 million into a class settlement escrow account. 

Previously, the Bancorp paid an additional $4 million in another 
settlement escrow in connection wi
th the settlement of claims from 
plaintiffs not included in the class action. More than 7,900 

merchants have requested exclusion from the class settlement. 

Pursuant to the terms of the settlement agreement, 25% of the 

funds paid into the class settlement escrow account will be returned 

to the control of the defendants through Class Exclusion Takedown 

Payments.  Approximately 460 of the merchants who requested 

exclusion from the class have filed separate federal lawsuits against 
Visa, MasterCard and certain other defendants alleging similar 
antitrust violations.  The federal lawsuits have been tentatively 

transferred to the United States District Court for the Eastern 

District of New York.  The Banc
orp was not named as a defendant 
in any of the federal lawsuits, but 
may have obligations pursuant to 
indemnification arrangements and/or the judgment or loss sharing 

agreements noted above. In addition, one merchant filed a separate 

state court lawsuit against Visa, MasterCard and certain other 
defendants, including the Bancor
p, alleging similar antitrust 
violations.  On January 14, 2014, 
the court entered a final order 
approving the class settlement.  A number of merchants have filed 

appeals from that approval.  Refer to Note 17 for further 

information. In September 2007, Ronald A. Katz Technology Licensing, 
L.P. (Katz) filed a suit in the Un
ited States District Court for the 
Southern District of Ohio against the Bancorp and its Ohio banking 
subsidiary. In the suit, Katz allege
d that the Bancorp and its Ohio 
bank infringed on Katz™s patents 
for interactive call processing 
technology by offering certain automated telephone banking and 

other services. On December 23, 2013 the parties to the litigation 

entered into a settlement agreement.  The settlement amount was 

immaterial to the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Pursuant to the settlement agreemen
t, the Bank paid the agreed 
upon settlement proceeds to Katz resulting in the dismissal of the 
lawsuit with prejudice on January 8, 2014. For the year ended December 31, 2008, five putative securities 
class action complaints were filed 
against the Bancorp and its Chief 
Executive Officer, among other parties. The five cases have been 

consolidated under the caption Local 295/Local 851 IBT Employer 

Group Pension Trust and Welfare Fund v. Fifth Third Bancorp. et 

al., Case No. 1:08CV00421, and are currently pending in the United 

States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio. On 
December 18, 2012, the Bancorp entered into a settlement 
agreement to resolve these cases. Under the terms of the settlement, 

the Bancorp and its insurer paid a total of $16 million to a fund to 

settle all the claims of the class members. In the settlement the 

Bancorp has denied any liability an
d has agreed to the settlement in 
order to avoid potential future litigation costs and uncertainty. The 
Bancorp does not consider the impact of the settlement to be 
material to its financial condition or results of operations. On 
November 20, 2013, the Court ente
red a Final Judgment and Order 
of Dismissal approving the settlement. No appeal was filed and the 

matter now is concluded. 
In addition to the foregoing, in 2008 two similar cases were 
filed in the United States District Court for the Southern District of 

Ohio against the Bancorp and certain officers styled 
Dudenhoeffer v 
Fifth Third Bancorp et al. Case No. 1:08-cv-538.
 The complaints alleged 
violations of ERISA based on allegations similar to those set forth 
in the securities class action cases. The ERISA actions were 

dismissed by the trial court, but th
e Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals 
reversed the trial court decision. The Bancorp petitioned the United 

States Supreme Court to review and reverse the Sixth Circuit 

decision and sought a stay of pro
ceedings in the trial court pending 
appeal. On March 25, 2013 the Supreme Court issued an order 

directing the Solicitor General to file
 a brief stating the views of the 
United States on the issues raised in the Bancorp
 petition and this 
brief was filed on November 12, 2013. On December 13, 2013 the 

Supreme Court granted certiorari an
d agreed to hear the appeal. 
Oral argument is set for April 2, 2014. 
The Bancorp and its subsidiaries are not parties to any other 
material litigation. However, there are other litigation matters that 

arise in the normal course of busi
ness. While it is impossible to 
ascertain the ultimate resolution or range of financial liability with 
respect to these contingent matters, management believes any 
resulting liability from these other actions would not have a material 

effect upon the Bancorp™s consolidat
ed financial position, results of 
operations or cash flows.  
The Bancorp and/or its affiliates are involved in information-
gathering requests, reviews, investigations and proceedings (both 

formal and informal) by various governmental regulatory agencies 

and law enforcement authorities, as
 well as self-regulatory bodies 
regarding their respective businesses. Additional matters will likely 
arise from time to time. Any of th
ese matters may result in material 
adverse consequences to the Banc
orp, its affiliates and/or their 
respective directors, officers and other personnel, including adverse 

judgments, findings, settlements, fines, penalties, orders, injunctions 

or other actions, amendments and/or restatements of the Bancorp™s 

SEC filings and/or financial statements, as applicable, and/or 

determinations of material weaknesses in our disclosure controls 
and procedures. Investigations by
 regulatory authorities may from 
time to time result in civil or cr
iminal referrals to law enforcement 
authorities such as the Department of Justice or a United States 

Attorney. Among other matters, the Bancorp has been cooperating 

with the Department of Justice and the Office of the Inspector 

General for the Department of Ho
using and Urban Development in a civil investigation regarding co
mpliance with requirements relating 
to certain Federal Housing Agen
cy-insured loans originated by 
affiliates of the Bancorp. The investigation is ongoing, and no 
demand or claim has been made of the Bancorp. The investigation 

could lead to a demand under th
e federal False Claims Act and the 
federal Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement 

Act of 1989, which allow up to treble and other special damages 

substantially in excess of actual losses.  
As previously disclosed the SE
C had been investigating the 
Bancorp™s historical accounting and reporting with respect to certain 
commercial loans that were sold or reclassified as held-for-sale in 
the fourth quarter of 2008. At dispute in the matter was whether 

certain of those loans should have been moved to held for sale in 

the third quarter rather than the 
fourth quarter of that year. The 
Bancorp and the SEC staff agreed to a settlement of that 

investigation, pursuant to which 
the Bancorp, without admitting or 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  136  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 denying any factual allegations, c
onsented to the SEC™s issuance of 
an administrative order containing findings that the Bancorp did not 

properly account for a portion of its commercial real estate loan 

portfolio in its Form 10-Q for the third quarter of 2008 in violation 
of certain provisions of the secu
rities laws, including Sections 
17(a)(2) and 17(a)(3) of the Securities Act of 1933 and Sections 

13(a), 13(b)(2)(A), and 13(b)(2)(B) of the Securities Exchange Act of 

1934. The settlement also ordered the Bancorp to cease and desist 

from committing or causing any such 
violations in the future and to 
pay a civil penalty of $6.5 million.
 Daniel T. Poston, the Bancorp™s 
interim chief financial officer during
 the relevant time, agreed to a 
separate settlement with the SEC staff pursuant to which Mr. 
Poston, without admitting or denying any factual allegations, 
consented to an administrative order containing similar findings and 

charges against him, a cease and desist order, a separate civil money 

penalty of $100,000, and a one-year ban from practicing before the 

SEC. The SEC approved the settlement on December 4, 2013 and 

this matter is now concluded.  The Bancorp is party to numerous claims and lawsuits as well 
as threatened or potential actions or claims concerning matters 
arising from the conduct of its business activities. The outcome of 
claims or litigation and the timing of ultimate resolution are 

inherently difficult to predict. The following factors, among others, 

contribute to this lack of predicta
bility: plaintiff claims often include 
significant legal uncertainties, dama
ges alleged by plaintiffs are often 
unspecified or overstated, discov
ery may not have started or may 
not be complete and material facts may be disputed or 

unsubstantiated. As a result of these factors, the Bancorp is not 
always able to provide an estimate of the range of reasonably 
possible outcomes for each claim. A reserve for a potential litigation 

loss is established when informati
on related to the loss contingency 
indicates both that a loss is probable and that the amount of loss 

can be reasonably estimated. Any such reserve is adjusted from time 

to time thereafter as appropriate to
 reflect changes in circumstances. 
The Bancorp also determines, when possible (due to the 

uncertainties described above), 
estimates of reasonably possible 
losses or ranges of reasonably possible losses, in excess of amounts 
reserved. Under U.S. GAAP, an event is ﬁreasonably possibleﬂ if 

ﬁthe chance of the future event or events occurring is more than 

remote but less than likelyﬂ and an 
event is ﬁremoteﬂ if ﬁthe chance 
of the future event or events occu
rring is slight.ﬂ Thus, references 
to the upper end of the range of reasonably possible loss for cases 

in which the Bancorp is able to 
estimate a range of reasonably 
possible loss mean the upper end of the range of loss for cases for 
which the Bancorp believes the risk of loss is more than slight. For 
matters where the Bancorp is able to estimate such possible losses 

or ranges of possible losses, the Ba
ncorp currently estimates that it 
is reasonably possible that it could incur losses related to legal 

proceedings including the matters discussed above in an aggregate 

amount up to approximately $113 million in excess of amounts 

reserved, with it also being reasona
bly possible that no losses will be 
incurred in these matters. The estima
tes included in this amount are 
based on the Bancorp™s analysis of 
currently available information, 
and as new information is obtained the Bancorp may change its 

estimates. For these matters and others where an unfavorable outcome is 
reasonably possible but not probabl
e, there may be a range of 
possible losses in excess of the established reserve that cannot be 

estimated. Based on information currently available, advice of 

counsel, available insurance covera
ge and established reserves, the 
Bancorp believes that the eventual outcome of the actions against 
the Bancorp and/or its subsidiaries, including the matters described 
above, will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material 

adverse effect on the Bancorp™s 
consolidated financial position. 
However, in the event of unexpect
ed future developments, it is 
possible that the ultimate resolution 
of those matters, if unfavorable, 
may be material to the Bancorp™
s results of operations for any 
particular period, depending, in 
part, upon the size of the loss or 
liability imposed and the operating re
sults for the applicable period. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 137  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 19. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
The Bancorp maintains written policies and procedures covering 
related party transactions to principal shareholders, directors and 
executives of the Bancorp. These procedures cover transactions 

such as employee-stock purchase 
loans, personal lines of credit, 
residential secured loans, overdrafts, letters of credit and increases in 

indebtedness. Such transactions are subject to the Bancorp™s normal 

underwriting and approval procedures
. Prior to the closing of a loan 
to a related party, Compliance Risk Management must approve and 
determine whether the transaction requires approval from or a post 
notification be sent to the Bancorp™s Board of Directors. At 
December 31, 2013 and 2012, certain di
rectors, executive officers, 
principal holders of Bancorp common stock, associates of such 

persons, and affiliated companies of
 such persons were indebted, 
including undrawn commitments to lend, to the Bancorp™s banking 

subsidiary.  The following table summarizes the Bancorp™
s activities with its principal sharehol
ders, directors and executives at December 3
1:     ($ in millions)
   2013 
2012
Commitments to lend, net of participations: 
      Directors and their affiliated companies 
$586 
364
Executive officers   2 3Total 
$588 
367
        Outstanding balance on loans, net of participations and undrawn commitments 
$86 
93    The commitments to lend are in the form of loans and guarantees 
for various business and personal interests. This indebtedness was 
incurred in the ordinary course of business on substantially the same 
terms, including interest rates an
d collateral, as those prevailing at 
the time for comparable transactions
 with unrelated parties. This 
indebtedness does not involve more than the normal risk of 

repayment or present other features unfavorable to the Bancorp.  
On June 30, 2009, the Bancorp completed the sale of a 
majority interest in its processing business, Vantiv Holding, LLC. 

Advent International acquired an
 approximate 51% interest in 
Vantiv Holding, LLC for cash and a warrant. The Bancorp retained 
the remaining approximate 49% interest in Vantiv Holding, LLC.  
During the first quarter of 2012, Vantiv, Inc. priced an IPO of 
its shares and contributed the net proceeds to Vantiv Holding, LLC 

for additional ownership interests. As a result of this offering, the 

Bancorp™s ownership of Vantiv Holding, LLC was reduced to 

approximately 39%.  The impact 
of the capital contributions to 
Vantiv Holding, LLC and the resu
lting dilution in the Bancorp™s 
interest resulted in a gain of $
115 million recognized by the Bancorp 
in the first quarter of 2012. The Bancorp™s ownership share in 

Vantiv Holding, LLC was further re
duced during the fourth quarter 
of 2012 when the Bancorp sold an approximate six percent interest 

and recognized a $157 million gain. The Bancorp™s ownership of 

Vantiv Holding, LLC was reduced to 33% as a result of this sale and 

had a carrying value of $563 million as of December 31, 2012.  
The Bancorp™s ownership position in Vantiv Holding, LLC was 
reduced in the second quarter of 2013 when the Bancorp sold an 
approximate five percent interest and recognized a $242 million 

gain. The Bancorp™s ownership per
centage was further reduced in 
the third quarter of 2013 when the Bancorp sold an approximate 

three percent interest and reco
gnized an $85 million gain. The 
Bancorp™s remaining approximate 25% ownership in Vantiv 

Holding, LLC was accounted for as
 an equity method investment in 
the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements and had a carrying 
value of $423 million as of December 31, 2013. 
As of December 31, 2013, the Bancorp continued to hold 
approximately 48.8 million Class B units of Vantiv Holding, LLC 

and a warrant to purchase appr
oximately 20.4 million Class C non-
voting units of Vantiv Holding, LLC, both of which may be 

exchanged for Class A Common Stock of Vantiv, Inc. on a one for 

one basis or at Vantiv, Inc.™s 
option for cash. In addition, the 
Bancorp holds approximately 48.8 million Class B common shares 
of Vantiv, Inc. The Class B common shares give the Bancorp voting 
rights, but no economic interest in Vantiv, Inc. The voting rights 
attributable to the Class B common shares are limited to 18.5% of 
the voting power in Vantiv, Inc. at any time other than in 
connection with a stockholder vote with respect to a change in 
control in Vantiv, Inc. These securi
ties are subject to certain terms 
and restrictions. 
The Bancorp recognized $77 million, $61 million and $57 
million respectively, in noninterest income as part of its equity 

method investment in Vantiv Hold
ing, LLC for the years ended 
December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 and received cash distributions 

totaling $40 million and $30 million during 2013 and 2012, 
respectively. The Bancorp and Vantiv Holding, LLC have various 
agreements in place covering services relating to the operations of 

Vantiv Holding, LLC. The services provided by the Bancorp to 

Vantiv Holding, LLC were initial
ly required to support Vantiv 
Holding, LLC as a standalone 
entity during the deconversion 
period. The majority of services pr
eviously provided by the Bancorp 
to support Vantiv Holding, Inc. as a standalone entity are no longer 
necessary and are now limited to certain general business resources. 
Vantiv Holding, LLC paid the Bancorp $1 million for these services 

for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 and $21 million 

for the year ended December 31, 2011. Other services provided to 

Vantiv Holding, LLC by the Bancorp, have continued beyond the 

deconversion period, include clearing, settlement and sponsorship. 

Vantiv Holding, LLC paid the Bancorp $34 million for these 

services for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 and $37 
million for the year ended December 31, 2011. In addition to the 
previously mentioned services, the Bancorp entered into an 

agreement under which Vantiv 
Holding, LLC will provide 
processing services to the Bancorp. The total amount of fees 

relating to the processing services provided to the Bancorp by 

Vantiv Holding, LLC totaled $
88 million, $83 million and $74 
million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, 

respectively.  As part of the sale, Vantiv
 Holding, LLC assumed loans 
totaling $1.25 billion owed to the Bancorp, which were refinanced 

in 2010 into a larger syndicated lo
an structure that included the 
Bancorp. The outstanding balance of loans to Vantiv Holding, LLC 

was $348 million and $325 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, 

respectively. Interest income relat
ing to the loans was $7 million, 
$11 million and $18 million, respectively, for the years ended 

December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 and is
 included in interest and 
fees on loans and leases in the C
onsolidated Statements of Income. 
Vantiv Holding, LLC™s line of credit was $50 million as of 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  138  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 December 31, 2013 and 2012. Vantiv Holding, LL
C did not draw upon its lines of credit
 during the years ended December 31, 2013 
or 2012.  20.  INCOME TAXES 
The Bancorp and its subsidiaries file a consolidated federal in
come tax return. The following is a summary of applicable income
 taxes included in 
the Consolidated Statements of Income 
for the years ended December 31:   
     ($ in millions)
   2013 
2012 
2011 
Current income tax expense (benefit): 
             U.S. Federal income taxes 
$ 494 
327 
 82 
     State and local income taxes 
  23 
38 
 14 
     Foreign income taxes 
  2  - 
 - 
Total current tax expense  
  519 
365 
 96 
Deferred income tax expense  
             U.S. Federal income taxes 
  232 
252 
 411 
     State and local income taxes 
  23 
19 
 26 
     Foreign income taxes 
  (2) - 
 - 
Total deferred income tax expense 
   253 
 271 
 437 
Applicable income tax expense  
$  772 
 636 
 533 
      The following is a reconciliation between the statutory U.S. Fede
ral income tax rate and the Bancorp™s effective tax rate for t
he years ended
December 31:         ($ in millions)
   2013 
  2012 
2011 
Statutory tax rate 
  35.0 
%35.0 
35.0 
Increase (decrease) resulting from: 
             State taxes, net of federal benefit 
  1.2   1.7 
1.4 
     Tax-exempt income 
  (1.1)  (2.1)
(1.4)
     Credits 
  (6.0)  (6.7)
(7.3)
     Unrealized stock-based compensation benefits 
  0.3 
  0.8 
1.3 
     Other, net 
  0.3 
  0.1 
0.1 
Effective tax rate 
  29.7 
%28.8 
29.1 
        Tax-exempt income in the rate reconciliation table includes interest 
on municipal bonds, interest on tax-exempt lending, 
income/charges on life insurance policies held by the Bancorp, and 
certain gains on sales of leases that are exempt from federal 
taxation. 
 The following table provides a summary of the Banc
orp™s unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31:
   ($ in millions)
  2013 
2012
Tax positions that would impact the 
effective tax rate, if recognized 
$7 18Tax positions where the ultimate 
deductibility is highly certain, but for which th
ere is uncertainty abou
t the timing of the de
duction 
  - 
 -Unrecognized tax benefits
 $7 18 The following table provides a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of the Bancorp™s unrecognized tax benefits:       ($ in millions)
   2013 
2012 
2011 
Unrecognized tax benefits at January 1 
$ 18 14 
16 
Gross increases for tax positions taken during prior period 
  1 6 1 Gross decreases for tax positions taken during prior period 
  (7)(3)
(2)
Gross increases for tax positions taken during current period 
   1 
 2 
 - 
Settlements with taxing authorities
    (5)
 - 
 - 
Lapse of applicable statute of limitations
   (1)(1)
(1)
Unrecognized tax bene
fits at December 31 
$ 7 18 
14 
      The Bancorp™s unrecognized tax be
nefits as of December 31, 2013, 
2012, and 2011 relate largely to state income tax exposures from 

taking tax positions where the Ba
ncorp believes it is likely that, 
upon examination, a state will ta
ke a position contrary to the 
position taken by the Bancorp. 
While it is reasonably possible that the amount of the 
unrecognized tax benefits with respect to certain of the Bancorp™s 

uncertain tax positions could increase
 or decrease during the next 12 
months, the Bancorp believes it is unlikely that its unrecognized tax 
benefits will change by a material amount during the next 12 

months. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 139  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Deferred income taxes are comprised of the following items at December 31:
   ($ in millions)
  2013 
2012 
Deferred tax assets: 
          Allowance for loan and lease losses
 $554 
649 
     Deferred compensation 
 109 105 
     Reserves 
 101 63 
     Reserve for unfunded commitments 
 57 
47 
     Impairment reserves 
 31 74 
     State net operating losses 
 22 
33 
     Other 
 149 191 
Total deferred tax assets 
$1,023 
1,162 
Deferred tax liabilities: 
        Lease financing 
$865 
844 
     Investments in joint ventures and partnership interests 
 381 
470 
     MSRs 
 254 
162 
     Bank premises and equipment 
 114 108 
     Qualifying hedges and free-standing derivatives 
97 
31 
     State deferred taxes 
 76 
64 
     Other comprehensive income 
 44 
202 
     Other   
 130 124 
Total deferred tax liabilities 
$1,961 
2,005 
Total net deferred tax liability 
$(938)(843)
  At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Bancorp had recorded 
deferred tax assets of $22 million and $33 million, respectively, 
related to state net operating loss carryforwards. The deferred tax 
assets relating to state net operating
 losses (primarily resulting from 
leasing operations) are presented net of specific valuation 

allowances of $19 million and $20 million at December 31, 2013 

and 2012, respectively. If these carryforwards are not utilized, they 

will expire in varying amounts through 2030.  
The Bancorp has determined that
 a valuation allowance is not 
needed against the remaining deferred tax assets as of December 31, 
2013 or 2012. The Bancorp considered all of the positive and 
negative evidence available to determine whether it is more likely 

than not that the deferred tax assets
 will ultimately be realized and, 
based upon that evidence, the Bancorp believes it is more likely than 

not that the deferred tax assets recorded at December 31, 2013 and 

2012 will ultimately be realized. The Bancorp reached this 

conclusion as the Bancorp has taxable income in the carryback 

period and it is expected that th
e Bancorp™s remaining deferred tax 
assets will be realized through the reversal of its existing taxable 
temporary differences and its projected future taxable income.  
The IRS concluded its audit for 2008 and 2009 during the first 
quarter of 2012. As a result, all issues have been resolved with the 

IRS through 2009. The IRS is currently examining the Bancorp™s 

2010 and 2011 federal income tax returns. The statute of limitations 
for the Bancorp™s federal income tax returns remains open for tax 
years 2010-2013. On occasion, as various state and local taxing 
jurisdictions examine the returns of the Bancorp and its subsidiaries, 
the Bancorp may agree to extend the statute of limitations for a 

short period of time. Otherwise, with the exception of a few states 

with insignificant uncertain tax positions, the statutes of limitations 

for state income tax returns remain open only for tax years in 

accordance with each state™s statutes. 
Any interest and penalties incurred in connection with income 
taxes are recorded as a componen
t of income tax expense in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. During the years ended 
December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, the Bancorp recognized an 

immaterial amount of interest expense in connection with income 

taxes. At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the Bancorp had accrued 

interest liabilities, net of the related tax benefits, of $1 million and $3 

million, respectively. No material liabilities were recorded for 

penalties. Retained earnings at December 31, 2013 and 2012 included 
$157 million in allocations of earnings for bad debt deductions of 
former thrift subsidiaries for which no income tax has been 

provided. Under current tax law, 
if certain of the Bancorp™s 
subsidiaries use these bad debt reserves for purposes other than to 

absorb bad debt losses, they will be subject to federal income tax at 

the current corporate tax rate. 
21. RETIREMENT AND BENEFIT PLANS The Bancorp™s qualified defined benefit plan™s benefits were frozen 
in 1998, except for grandfathered employees. The Bancorp™s other 
retirement plans consist of nonqualified, supplemental retirement 
plans, which are funded on an as needed basis. A majority of these 
plans were obtained in acquisiti
ons from prior years. The Bancorp 
recognizes the overfunded and un
derfunded status of its pension 
plans as an asset and liability in 
the Consolidated Balance Sheets.       The overfunded and underfunded amounts reco
gnized in other assets and other liabilitie
s, respectively, on the Consolidated Bala
nce Sheets wereas follows as of December 31:
         ($ in millions) 
  2013 
2012 
Prepaid benefit cost 
$6 - Accrued benefit liabilit
y (27)(71)
Net underfunded status 
$(21)(71)
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  140  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  The following tables summarize the defined benefit reti
rement plans as of and for the years ended December 31: 
       Plans with an Overfunded Status
(a)     ($ in millions)
 2013 
2012 
Fair value of plan assets at January 1 
$185  - 
Actual return on assets 
30 
 - 
Contributions 
5  - 
Settlement 
(13) - 
Benefits paid 
(7) - 
Fair value of plan 
assets at December 31 
$200 
 - 
Projected benefit obligation at January 1 
$224 
 - 
Service cost 
 - 
 - 
Interest cost 10  - 
Settlement 
(13) - 
Actuarial gain 
(20) - 
Benefits paid 
(7) - 
Projected benefit oblig
ation at December 31 
$194  - 
Overfunded projected benefi
t obligation at December 31 
$6  - 
(a) The Bancorp™s defined benefit plan had an Overfunded status at 
December 31, 2013. The plan was 
Underfunded at December 31, 2012
 and is reflected in the Underfunded Status table.
  Plans with an Underfunded Status
     ($ in millions) 
2013 
2012 
Fair value of plan assets at January 1 
$ - 
 181 
Actual return on assets 
 - 
 21 
Contributions 
 4 
 4 
Settlement 
 - 
 (10)
Benefits paid 
 (4)
 (11)
Fair value of plan 
assets at December 31 
$ - 
 185 
Projected benefit obligation at January 1 
$32 
 253 
Service cost 
 - 
 - 
Interest cost 1  10 
Settlement 
 - 
 (10)
Actuarial (gain)/loss 
(2) 14 
Benefits paid 
(4) (11)
Projected benefit oblig
ation at December 31 
$27 
 256 
Unfunded projected benefit obligation at December 31 
$(27) (71)
  The estimated net actuarial loss for the defined benefit pension 
plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive 

income into net periodic benefit co
st during 2014 is $7 million. The 
estimated net prior service cost for the defined benefit pension plan 
that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive 
income into net periodic benefit cost during 2014 is immaterial to 

the Consolidated Financial Statements.    
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 141  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following table summarizes net periodic benefit cost and othe
r changes in plan assets and 
benefit obligations recognized 
in other comprehensive income for the years ended December 31:
      ($ in millions)
 2013
2012 
2011
Components of net periodic benefit cost: 
        Service cost 
$ - - 
 -  Interest cost 1010 
11  Expected return on assets (13)(13)
(15)
  Amortization of net actuarial loss 
1114 
11  Amortization of net prior service cost 
 - - 
1  Settlement 
56 6Net periodic benefit cost 
$1317 
14Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive income: 
  Net actuarial (gain)/loss 
$(38)7 50  Net prior service cost 
 - - 
 -  Amortization of net actuarial loss 
(11)(14)
(11)
  Amortization of prior service cost 
 - - 
(1)
  Settlement 
(5)(6)
(6)
Total recognized in other comprehensive income 
(54)(13)
32Total recognized in net periodic benefit cost and  
        other comprehensive income 
$(41)4 46       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  142  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Fair Value Measurements of Plan Assets
   The following table summarizes plan assets measured at
 fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31:
                        Fair Value Measurements Using
(a) 2013 ($ in millions)
 Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
Total Fair Value
Equity securities: 
                  Equity securities (Value) 
$8    -   - 
  $8    Equity securities (Blended)
(b) 40 
   -   - 
  40  Total equity securities 
48 
   -   - 
  48                      Mutual and exchange traded funds: 
                  Money market funds 7    -   - 
  7    International funds 
 - 
  43   - 
  43    Domestic funds 
 - 
  41   - 
  41    Debt funds 
 - 
  20   - 
  20    Alternative strategies 
 - 
  17   - 
  17    Commodity funds 
6    -   - 
  6  Total mutual and exchange traded funds 
13   121   - 
  134                      Debt securities: 
                  U.S. Treasury obligations 
3    -   - 
  3    Agency mortgage backed  
 - 
  13   - 
  13    Non-agency mortgage backed 
 - 
  2   - 
  2    Corporate bonds
(c)  - 
   -   - 
   -  Total debt securities 
3   15   - 
  18  Total plan assets 
$64 
  136   - 
  $200
                          Fair Value Measurements Using
(a) 2012 ($ in millions)
 Level 1 
 Level 2 
  Level 3 
 Total Fair Value
Equity Securities: 
                  Equity securities (Growth)
(b) $50 
   -   - 
  $50    Equity securities (Value) 
52 
   -   - 
  52    Equity securities (Blended) 
4    -   - 
  4  Total equity securities 
106 
   -   - 
  106
                      Mutual and exchange traded funds: 
                  Money market funds 4    -   - 
  4    International funds 
29 
   -   - 
  29    Commodity funds 
9    -   - 
  9  Total mutual and exchange traded funds 
42 
   -   - 
  42                      Debt securities: 
                  U.S. Treasury obligations 
13 
   -   - 
  13    Agency mortgage backed  
 - 
  21   - 
  21    Non-agency mortgage backed 
 - 
  2   - 
  2    Corporate bonds
(c)  - 
  1   - 
  1  Total debt securities 
13 
  24   - 
  37  Total plan assets 
$161 
  24   - 
  $185
  (a) For further information on fair value hierarchy levels, see Note 1.  
(b) Includes holdings in Bancorp common stock. 
(c) Includes private label asset backed securities. 
The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used 
for instruments measured at fair 
value, as well as the general 
classification of such instrumen
ts pursuant to the valuation 
hierarchy. 
 
Equity securities
 The plan measures common stock using quoted prices which are 
available in an active market and 
classifies these investments within 
Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. 

 
 
 Mutual and exchange traded funds 
All of the plan™s mutual and exch
ange traded funds are publicly 
traded. The plan measures the valu
e of these investments using the 
fund™s quoted prices that are ava
ilable in an active market and 
classifies these investments wi
thin Level 1 of the valuation 
hierarchy. Where quotes prices ar
e not available, the plan measures 
the fair value of these investments based on the redemption price of 
units held, which is based on the current fair value of the fund™s 

underlying assets. Unit values are determined by dividing the fund™s 

net assets at fair value by its units outstanding at the valuation dates 

to obtain the investment™s net a
sset value. Therefore, these 
investments are classified within Le
vel 2 of the valuation hierarchy. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 143  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  Debt securities 
For certain U.S. Treasury obligati
ons and federal agency securities, 
the plan measures the fair value based on quoted prices, which are 
available in an active market and 
classifies these investments within 
Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. Where quoted prices are not 

available, the plan measures the fair value of these investments 

based on matrix pricing models that include the bid price, which 

factors in the yield curve and other characteristics of the security 

including the interest rate, prepayment speeds and length of 

maturity. Therefore, these investments are classified within Level 2 
of the valuation hierarchy.  Plan Assumptions 
The plan assumptions are evaluated annually and are updated as 
necessary. The discount rate a
ssumption reflects the yield on a 
portfolio of high quality fixed-
income instruments that have a 
similar duration to the plan™s liabilit
ies. The expected long-term rate 
of return assumption reflects the 
average return expected on the 
assets invested to provide for th
e plan™s liabilities. In determining 
the expected long-term rate of
 return, the Bancorp evaluated 
actuarial and economic inputs, incl
uding long-term inflation rate 
assumptions and broad equity an
d bond indices long-term return 
projections, as well as actual long-term historical plan performance. 
                The following table summarizes the plan 
assumptions for the years ended December 31:
                   Weighted-Average Assumptions 
2013 
   2012 
 2011  
For measuring benefit obligations at year end: 
                Discount rate 
 4.72 
%    3.83 
   4.27 
    Rate of compensation increase 
 4.00 
     4.00 
   5.00 
    Expected return on plan assets 
 7.50 
     8.00 
   8.25 
  For measuring net periodic benefit cost: 
                Discount rate 
 3.83 
     4.27 
   5.39 
    Rate of compensation increase 
 4.00 
     5.00 
   5.00 
    Expected return on plan assets 
 7.50 
     8.00 
   8.25 
          Lowering both the expected rate of
 return on the plan assets and 
the discount rate by 0.25% would have increased the 2013 pension 

expense by approximately $1 million. Lowering the rate of 

compensation increase by 0.25% wo
uld have an immaterial impact 
on the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements.  
Based on the actuarial assumptions, the Bancorp expects to 
contribute $4 million to the plan in 2014. Estimated pension benefit 
payments, which reflect expected future service, are $18 million in 

2014, $18 million in 2015, $16 million in 2016, $15 million in 2017 

and $14 million in 2018. The total es
timated payments for the years 
2019 through 2023 is $63 million.  Investment Policies and Strategies 
The Bancorp™s policy for the investment of plan assets is to employ 

investment strategies that achieve a range of weighted-average target 

asset allocations relating to equity s
ecurities (including the Bancorp™s 
common stock), fixed income securities (including federal agency 
obligations, corporate bonds and notes), alternative strategies 

(including traditional mutual funds, precious metals and 

commodities) and cash.  
 The following table provides the Bancorp™s 
targeted and actual weighted-average asse
t allocations by asset category for the yea
rs ended Decembe
r31:  Weighted-average asset allocationTargeted range 
2013 
 2012 
 Equity securities 
    65 
%76 Bancorp common stock 
    2   1  Total equity securities
(a) 39-78
% 67 
  77  Total fixed income securities 
11-41
  22 
  20  Alternative strategies 
0-18
  7   -  Cash(b) 0-10
  4   3  Total 
    100 %100
  (a) Includes mutual and exchange traded funds 
(b) Cash was held in a Federated Prime Cash Obligation Fund in 2013 and in a Fifth Third Money Market Fund in 2012.  
 The risk tolerance for the plan is determined by management to be 
ﬁmoderate to aggressiveﬂ, recognizing that higher returns involve 

some volatility and that periodic dec
lines in the portfolio™s value are 
tolerated in an effort to achieve real capital growth. There were no 

significant concentrations of risk associated with the investments of 

the Bancorp™s benefit and retirement plan at December 31, 2013 
and 2012. Permitted asset classes of the plan include cash and cash 
equivalents, fixed income (domes
tic and non-U.S. bonds), equities 
(U.S., non-U.S., emerging markets and REITS), equipment leasing, 

precious metals, commodity transactions and mortgages. The plan 

utilizes derivative instruments in
cluding puts, calls, straddles or 
other option strategies, as approv
ed by management. Per ERISA, 
the Bancorp™s common stock cannot exceed ten percent of the fair 
value of plan assets.   
Fifth Third Bank, as Trustee, is expected to manage the plan 
assets in a manner consistent with the plan agreement and other 

regulatory, federal and state laws. The Fifth Third Bank Pension, 

Profit Sharing and Medical Plan Committee (the ﬁCommitteeﬂ) is 
the plan administrator. The Trustee is required to provide to the 
Committee monthly and quarterly re
ports covering a list of plan 
assets, portfolio performance, tran
sactions and asset allocation. The 
Trustee is also required to keep 
the Committee apprised of any 
material changes in the Trustee™s outlook and recommended 

investment policy.    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  144  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Other Information on Retirement and Benefit Plans 
The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit plans was 
$221 million and $256 million at December 31, 2013 and 2012, 

respectively. . Amounts relating to the Bancorp™s defined benefit plans with a
ssets exceeding benefit obligations were as follows at December 31
:            ($ in millions) 
  2013 
 2012 
 Projected benefit obligation 
$194    -  Accumulated benefit obligation 
  194    -  Fair value of plan assets 
  200 
   -         Amounts relating to the Bancorp™s defined benefit plans with be
nefit obligations exceeding assets were as follows at December 31
:              ($ in millions) 
  2013 
 2012 
 Projected benefit obligation 
$27 
  256
  Accumulated benefit obligation 
  27 
  256
  Fair value of plan assets 
   - 
  185
        As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, 
$200 million and $123 million, 
respectively, of plan assets were managed by Fifth Third Bank, a 

subsidiary of the Bancorp. Plan assets included $4 million and $3 

million of Bancorp common stock as of December 31, 2013 and 

2012, respectively. Plan assets are not
 expected to be returned to the 
Bancorp during 2014. 
The Bancorp™s profit sharing plan expense was $32 million, $46 
million and $35 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 

2012, and 2011, respectively. Expenses recognized for matching 

contributions to the Bancorp™s de
fined contribution savings plans were $43 million, $42 million and $40 million for the years ended 

December 31, 2013, 2012, and 2011, respectively.   
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 145  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 22. ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
The activity of the components of other comprehensive income an
d accumulated other comprehensive income for the years ended Dec
ember 31:
                                Total Other 
 Total Accumulated Other 
     Comprehensive Income 
 Comprehensive Income 
     Pretax Tax Net 
Beginning 
Net 
Ending ($ in millions) 
Activity 
Effect Activity 
Balance 
Activity 
Balance 
2013 
                         Unrealized holding losses on available-for-sale securities arising  
                          during period 
$(454)  159   (295)              Reclassification adjustment for ne
t losses included in net income
 6   (2)  4               Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities
 (448)  157   (291)  412 
  (291)  121                               Unrealized holding losses on cash flow hedge derivatives arising
                           during period 
(13)  5   (8)              Reclassification adjustment for net gains on cash flow
                           hedge derivatives included in net income 
(44)  15   (29)              Net unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedge derivatives
 (57)  20 
  (37)  50 
  (37)  13                               Net actuarial gain arising during the period
 38 
  (13)  25 
              Reclassification of amounts to net periodic benefit costs
 16   (6)  10               Defined benefit plans, net
 54 
  (19)  35 
  (87)  35 
  (52)  Total $(451)  158   (293)  375 
  (293)  82 
  2012 
                         Unrealized holding losses on available-for-sale securities arising  
                          during period 
$(97)
  34 
  (63)
              Reclassification adjustment for ne
t gains included in net income 
(15)
  5   (10)
              Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities 
(112)
  39 
  (73)
  485 
  (73)
  412 
                              Unrealized holding gains on cash flow hedge derivatives arising 
                          during period 
37 
  (13)
24 
          Reclassification adjustment for net gains on cash flow 
                          hedge derivatives included in net income 
(83)
  29 
  (54)
              Net unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedge derivatives 
(46)
  16 
  (30)
  80 
  (30)
  50 
                              Net actuarial loss arising during the period 
(7)
  2   (5)
        Reclassification of amounts to net periodic benefit costs 
20 
  (7)
  13 
        Defined benefit plans, net 
13 
  (5)
  8   (95)
  8  (87)
  Total 
$(145)
  50 
  (95)
  470 
  (95)
  375 
  2011 
                         Unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale securities arising  
                          during period 
$309 
  (108)
  201 
              Reclassification adjustment for ne
t gains included in net income 
(56)
  19 
  (37)
              Net unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities 
253 
  (89)
  164 
  321 
  164
  485 
                              Unrealized holding gains on cash flow hedge derivatives arising 
                          during period 
89 
  (31)
58 
          Reclassification adjustment for net gains on cash flow 
                          hedge derivatives included in net income 
(69)
  24 
  (45)
              Net unrealized gains (losses) on cash flow hedge derivatives 
20 
  (7)
  13 
  67 
  13  80 
                              Net actuarial loss arising during the period 
(50)
  17 
  (33)
        Reclassification of amounts to net periodic benefit costs 
18 
  (6)
  12 
        Defined benefit plans, net 
(32)
  11 
  (21)
  (74)
  (21)
  (95)
  Total 
$241 
  (85)
  156 
  314 
  156
  470 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  146  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  The table below presents recla
ssifications out of accumulated 
other comprehensive income for 
the year ended December 31, 2013:
                   Amount Reclassified  Affected Line Item in the  
Components of AOCI: ($ in millions) 
  from AOCI(b)   Consolidated Statements of Income
             Net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities 
          Net losses included in net income 
 $ (6)
  Securities gains, net 
       (6)
  Income before income taxes        2  Applicable income tax expense 
       (4)
  Net income 
            Net unrealized gains on cash
 flow hedge derivatives 
          Interest rate contracts related to C&I loans 
   45
  Interest and fees on loans and leases  
  Interest rate contracts related to long-term debt 
   (1)
  Interest on long-term debt  
       44
  Income before income taxes        (15)
  Applicable income tax expense 
       29
  Net income 
            Net periodic benefit costs  
          Amortization of net actuarial loss 
   (11)
  Employee benefits expense (a)
   Settlements 
   (5)
  Employee benefits expense (a)
        (16)
  Income before income taxes        6  Applicable income tax expense 
       (10)
  Net income 
            Total reclassifications for the period 
 $ 15
  Net income 
(a) This AOCI component is included in the computation of net period
ic benefit cost. Refer to Note 21 for information on the comput
ation of net periodic benefit cost. 
(b) Amounts in parentheses indicate
 reductions to net income. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 147  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 23. COMMON, PREFERRED AND TREASURY STOCK
   The following is a summary of the share activity within 
common, preferred and treasury stock for the years ended: 
                    Common Stock  
 Preferred Stock  
  Treasury Stock  
($ in millions, except share data)  
Value 
Shares Value 
Shares  Value 
Shares December 31, 2010 
$ 1,779 
 801,504,188 
$ 3,654 
 152,771 
$  130 
 5,231,666 
Issuance of common shares 
 272 
 122,388,393 
 - 
 - 
   - 
 - 
Exchange of preferred shares, Series G 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1)
   - 
 - 
Redemption of preferred shares, Series F  
 - 
 - 
 (3,408)
 (136,320)
   - 
 - 
Accretion from dividends on preferred shares, Series F  
 - 
 - 
  153 
 - 
   - 
 - 
Impact of stock transactions under stock compensation plans, net 
 - 
 - 
  - 
 - 
   (65)
 (1,093,116)
Other   - 
 - 
 (1)
     (1)
 (50,405)
December 31, 2011 
$ 2,051 
 923,892,581 
$ 398 
 16,450 
$  64 
 4,088,145 
Shares acquired for treasury  
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
   627 
 42,424,014 
Impact of stock transactions under stock compensation plans, net 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
   (54)
 (4,654,165)
Other   - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
   (3)
 (117,470)
December 31, 2012 
$ 2,051 
 923,892,581 
$ 398 
 16,450 
$  634 
 41,740,524 
Shares acquired for treasury  
 - 
 - 
  - 
 - 
   1,242 
 65,516,126 
Issuance of preferred shares, Series I
  - 
 - 
  441 
 18,000 
   - 
 - 
Issuance of preferred shares, Series H
  - 
 - 
  593 
 24,000 
   - 
 - 
Redemption of preferred shares, Series G
  - 
 - 
  (398)
 (16,450)
   (540)
 (35,529,018)
Impact of stock transactions under stock compensation plans, net
   - 
 - 
  - 
 - 
   (38)
 (3,697,042)
Other   - 
 - 
  - 
 - 
   (3)
 556,246 
December 31, 2013 
$ 2,051 
 923,892,581 
$ 1,034 
 42,000 
$  1,295 
 68,586,836 
      Common Stock  
On January 25, 2011, the Bancorp raised $1.7 billion in new 
common equity through the issuance of common stock in an 

underwritten offering with an initial price of $14.00 per share. 

121,428,572 shares were issued, wh
ich included 12,142,857 shares 
issued to the underwriters, who ex
ercised their option to purchase 
additional shares at the offering price of $14.00 per share on January 

24, 2011. In connection with this exercise, the Bancorp entered into 
a forward sale agreement which resu
lted in a final net payment of 
959,821 shares on February 4, 2011. 
  Preferred StockŠSeries I 
On December 9, 2013, the Bancorp issued, in a registered public 

offering, 18,000,000 depositary shares
, representing 18,000 shares of 
6.625% fixed-to-floating rate non-
cumulative Series I perpetual 
preferred stock, for net proceeds of $441 million. Each preferred 
share has a $25,000 liquidation preference. The preferred stock 
accrues dividends, on a non-cumulativ
e quarterly basis, at an annual 
rate of 6.625% through but excl
uding December 31, 2023, at which 
time it converts to a quarterly floa
ting rate dividend of three-month 
LIBOR plus 3.71%. Subject to any required regulatory approval, the 

Bancorp may redeem the Series I preferred shares at its option in 

whole or in part, at any time on or after December 31, 2023 and 

may redeem in whole but not in pa
rt, following a regulatory capital 
event at any time prior to December 31, 2023. The Series I 
preferred shares are not convertible into Bancorp common shares 

or any other securities. 
 Preferred StockŠSeries H 
On May 16, 2013, the Bancorp issued, in a registered public 

offering, 600,000 depositary shares, representing 24,000 shares of 
5.10% fixed-to-floating rate non-cumulative Series H perpetual 
preferred stock, for net proceeds of $593 million. Each preferred 
share has a $25,000 liquidation preference. The preferred stock 

accrues dividends, on a non-cumula
tive semi-annual basis, at an 
annual rate of 5.10% through but excluding June 30, 2023, at which 

time it converts to a quarterly floa
ting rate dividend of three-month 
LIBOR plus 3.033%. Subject to any required regulatory approval, 

the Bancorp may redeem the Series H preferred shares at its option 
in whole or in part, at any time on or after June 30, 2023 and may 
redeem in whole but not in part, fo
llowing a regulatory capital event 
at any time prior to June 30, 2023. The Series H preferred shares are 

not convertible into Bancorp common shares or any other 

securities.  Preferred StockŠSeries G  
In 2008, the Bancorp issued 8.
50% non-cumulative Series G 
convertible preferred stock. The depositary shares represented 
1/250th of a share of Series G conv
ertible preferred stock and had a 
liquidation preference of $25,000 per preferred share of Series G 

stock. The preferred stock was convertible at any time, at the option 

of the shareholder, into 2,159.8272 shares of common stock, 

representing a conversion price of approximately $11.575 per share 

of common stock.  
On June 11, 2013, pursuant to the Amended Articles of 
Incorporation, the Bancorp™s Board of Directors authorized the 
conversion into common stock, no 
par value, of all outstanding 
shares of the Bancorp™s Series G perpetual preferred stock. The 

Articles grant the Bancorp the righ
t, at its option, to convert all 
outstanding shares of Series G preferred stock if the closing price of 

common stock exceeded 130% of the applicable conversion price 

for 20 trading days within any peri
od of 30 consecutive trading days. 
The closing price of shares of common stock satisfied such 
threshold for the 30 trading days
 ended June 10, 2013, and the 
Bancorp gave the required notice of its exercise of its conversion 

right. On July 1, 2013, the Bancorp converted the remaining 16,442 
outstanding shares of Series G preferred stock, which represented 

4,110,500 depositary shares, into sh
ares of Fifth Third™s common 
stock. Each share of Series G preferred stock was converted into 

2,159.8272 shares of common stock,
 representing a total of 
35,511,740 issued shares. The common shares issued in the 
conversion are exempt securities pu
rsuant to Section 3(a)(9) of the 
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, 
as the securities exchanged were 
exclusively with the Bancorp™s exis
ting security holders where no 
commission or other remuneration 
was paid. Upon conversion, the 
depositary shares were delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select 

Market and withdrawn from the Exchange. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  148  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Preferred StockŠSeries F 
On December 31, 2008, the U.S. Treasu
ry purchased $3.4 billion, or 
136,320 shares, of the Bancorp™s fixed rate cumulative perpetual 

preferred stock, Series F, with 
a liquidation preference of $25,000 
per share and related 10-year warrant
 in the amount of 15% of the 
preferred stock investment. The warrant gave the U.S Treasury the 

right to purchase 43,617,747 shares of the Bancorp™s common stock 

at $11.72 per share. The Series F senior preferred stock was issued 

complying with the terms established by the CPP. Per the program 

terms, the U.S. Treasury™s investment consisted of senior preferred 

stock with a five percent dividend for each of the first five years of 

investment and nine percent thereafter, unless the shares were 
redeemed. The shares were callable by the Bancorp at par after three 
years and could be repurchased at any time under certain 

circumstances. The terms also included restrictions on the 

repurchase of common stock and increases in common stock 

dividends, which required the U.S. 
Treasury™s consent, for a period 
of three years from the date of investment unless the preferred 

shares were redeemed in whole or the U.S. Treasury had transferred 

all of the preferred shares to a third party.   
The proceeds from issuance of the Series F preferred stock 
were allocated to the preferred stock and to the warrant based on 

their relative fair values, which resulted in an initial book value of 

$3.2 billion for the preferred stock and $239 million for the warrant. 

The resulting discount to the preferred stock was being accreted 

over five years through retained earnings as a preferred stock 

dividend, resulting in an effectiv
e yield of 6.7% for the Series F 
preferred stock for the first five years.  
On February 2, 2011, the Bancorp used proceeds from the 
issuance of common shares along with proceeds from a senior debt 

offering and other available resources to repurchase all 136,320 

Series F preferred shares. In connection with the redemption of the 

Series F preferred stock, the Bancorp accelerated the accretion of 

the remaining issuance discount on the Series F preferred stock and 

recorded a reduction in retained earnings and a corresponding 

increase in preferred stock of $153 million in the Bancorp™s 
Consolidated Balance Sheet. On March 16, 2011, the Bancorp 
repurchased the warrant issued to 
the U.S. Treasury in connection 
with the CPP preferred stock investment at an agreed upon price of 

$280 million, which was recorded as a reduction to capital surplus in 

the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements.  Treasury Stock On March 13, 2012, the Bancorp announced the results of its capital plan submitted to the FRB as part of the 2012 CCAR. The FRB 
indicated to the Bancorp that it di
d not object to the repurchase of 
common shares in an amount equal 
to any after-tax gains realized by 
the Bancorp from the sale of Vantiv, Inc. common shares by either 

the Bancorp or Vantiv, Inc. Following the Vantiv Inc. IPO, the 

Bancorp entered into an accelerated share repurchase transaction 

with a counterparty pursuant 
to which the Bancorp purchased 
4,838,710 shares, or approximately $
75 million, of its outstanding 
common stock on April 26, 2012. As part of this transaction and all 
subsequent accelerated share repu
rchase transactions in 2012 and 
2013, the Bancorp entered into forward contracts in which the final 

number of shares to be delivered at settlement of the accelerated 

share repurchase transaction was ba
sed on a discount to the average 
daily volume-weighted average price of the Bancorp™s common 

stock during the term of the Repurchase Agreements. Each of the 

accelerated share repurchases was treated as two separate 
transactions (i) the acquisition of 
treasury shares on the acquisition 
date and (ii) a forward contract indexed to the Bancorp™s stock. At 

settlement of the April 2012 forward contract on June 1, 2012, the 

Bancorp received an additional 631,
986 shares which were recorded 
as an adjustment to the basis in the treasury shares purchased on the 
acquisition date. 
On August 21, 2012, the Bancorp announced that the FRB did 
not object to its capital plan resubmitted under the 2012 CCAR 
process, which included the repurchases of common shares of up to 
$600 million through the first quarter of 2013, in addition to any 

incremental repurchase of common shares related to any after-tax 

gains realized by the Bancorp from the sale of Vantiv, Inc. common 

shares by either the Bancorp or Va
ntiv, Inc. As a result, on August 
21, 2012, Fifth Third™s Board of Di
rectors authorized the Bancorp 
to repurchase up to 100 million shares of its outstanding common 

stock in the open market or in priv
ately negotiated transactions, and 
to utilize any derivative or similar instrument to affect share 
repurchase transactions. This 
share repurchase authorization 
replaced the Board™s previous authorization pursuant to which 

approximately 14 million shares remained available for repurchase 

by the Bancorp. 
On August 23, 2012, the Bancorp entered into an accelerated 
share repurchase transaction with a counterparty pursuant to which 

the Bancorp purchased 21,531,100 shares, or approximately $350 
million, of its outstanding common stock on August 28, 2012. At 
settlement of the forward contract on October 24, 2012, the 

Bancorp received an additional 1,444,047 shares which were 

recorded as an adjustment to the basis in the treasury shares 

purchased on the acquisition date. 
On November 6, 2012, the 
Bancorp entered into an 
accelerated share repurchase tr
ansaction with a counterparty 
pursuant to which the Bancorp purchased 7,710,761 shares, or 
approximately $125 million, of its outstanding common stock on 
November 9, 2012. At settlement of the forward contract on 

February 12, 2013, the Bancorp received an additional 657,914 

shares which were recorded as an adjustment to the basis in the 

treasury shares purchased on the acquisition date. 
Following the sale of a portion of the Bancorp™s shares of Class 
A Vantiv, Inc. common stock, the Bancorp entered into an 

accelerated share repurchase transaction on December 14, 2012 
with a counterparty pursuant 
to which the Bancorp purchased 
6,267,410 shares, or approximately 
$100 million, of its outstanding 
common stock on December 19, 2012. The Bancorp repurchased 

the shares of its common stock as part of its previously announced 

100 million share repurchase program. At settlement of the 

transaction on February 27, 2013, the Bancorp received an 

additional 127,760 shares which were
 recorded as an adjustment to 
the basis in the treasury shares purchased on the acquisition date. 
On January 28, 2013, the Bancorp entered into an accelerated 
share repurchase transaction with a counterparty pursuant to which 

the Bancorp purchased 6,953,028 shares, or approximately $125 

million, of its outstanding common stock on January 31, 2013. The 

Bancorp repurchased the shares of its common stock as part of its 

previously announced Board approved 100 million share repurchase 

program. This repurchase transaction concluded the $600 million of 

common share repurchases not objected to by the FRB in the 2012 
CCAR process. At settlement of the forward contract on April 5, 
2013, the Bancorp received an additi
onal 849,037 shares which were 
recorded as an adjustment to the basis in the treasury shares 

purchased on the acquisition date. 
On March 14, 2013, the Bancorp 
announced the results of its 
capital plan submitted to the FRB as part of the 2013 CCAR. The 

FRB indicated to the Bancorp that it did not object to the 

repurchase of common shares in an amount up to $984 million, 
including any shares issued in a Series G preferred stock conversion, 
and the repurchase of common shares in an amount equal to any 

after-tax gains realized by the Bancorp from the sale of Vantiv, Inc. 

common stock, which totaled $157 million and $55 million in after-

tax gains during the second and third quarters of 2013, respectively. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 149  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 On March 19, 2013, the Board of Directors authorized the 
Bancorp to repurchase up to 100 million common shares in the 

open market or in privately negotiated transactions, and to utilize 
any derivative or similar instrument to effect share repurchase 
transactions. This share repurchase authorization replaced the 

Board™s previous authorization from August of 2012. On May 21, 2013, the Bancorp entered into an accelerated 
share repurchase transaction with a counterparty pursuant to which 

the Bancorp purchased 25,035,519 shares, or approximately $539 

million, of its outstanding common stock on May 24, 2013. The 

Bancorp repurchased the shares of its common stock as part of its 
100 million share repurchase prog
ram previously announced on 
March 19, 2013. At settlement of the forward contract on October 

1, 2013, the Bancorp received an 
additional 4,270,250 shares which 
were recorded as an adjustment to the basis in the treasury shares 

purchased on the acquisition date. 
On November 13, 2013, the Bancorp entered into an 
accelerated share repurchase tr
ansaction with a counterparty 
pursuant to which the Bancorp purchased 8,538,423 shares, or 
approximately $200 million, of its outstanding common stock on 
November 18, 2013. The Bancorp repurchased the shares of its 

common stock as part of its Board approved 100 million share 
repurchase program previously announced on March 19, 2013. The 
Bancorp expects the settlement of the transaction to occur on or 

before February 28, 2014. On December 10, 2013, the Bancorp entered into an 
accelerated share repurchase tr
ansaction with a counterparty 
pursuant to which the Bancorp purchased 19,084,195 shares, or 

approximately $456 million, of its outstanding common stock on 

December 13, 2013. The Bancorp repurchased the shares of its 

common stock as part of its Board approved 100 million share 

repurchase program previously announced on March 19, 2013. The 

Bancorp expects the settlement of the transaction to occur on or 
before March 26, 2014. On January 28, 2014, the Bancorp entered into an accelerated 
share repurchase transaction with a counterparty pursuant to which 

the Bancorp purchased 3,950,705 shares, or approximately $99 

million, of its outstanding common stock on January 31, 2014. The 

Bancorp repurchased the shares of its common stock as part of its 

Board approved 100 million share repurchase program previously 

announced on March 19, 2013. The Bancorp expects the settlement 
of the transaction to occur on or before March 26, 2014. 
During 2011, the Bancorp repurchased an immaterial amount 
of common stock. 
24. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION 
The Bancorp has historically emphasized employee stock 
ownership. The following table pr
ovides detail of the number of 
shares to be issued upon exercise 
of outstanding stock-based awards 
and remaining shares available for 
future issuance under all of the 
Bancorp™s equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2013: 
 Plan Category (shares in thousands) 
 Number of Shares to be 
Issued Upon Exercise
  Weighted-Average 
Exercise Price 
Shares Available for 
Future Issuance 
Equity compensation plans approved by shareholders 
         5,393 
(a) 
   SARs 
(b) 
(b) 
(a)  
  Restricted stock  6,710 
  N/A (a)  
  Stock options
(c)  22 
  $45.82
  (a)  
  Phantom stock units 
(d) 
N/A N/A     Performance units 
(e) N/A (a)  
  Employee stock purchase plan 
         8,030 
(f)  Total shares 
  6,732 
       13,423 
  (a) Under the 2011 Incentive Compensation Plan, 39 million shares plus
 up to 4.5 million shares from the 2008 Incentive Compensatio
n Plan (the Predecessor Plan) 
of stock were authorized for 
issuance as incentive and nonqualified stock options, SARs, rest
ricted stock and rest
ricted stock units, performance units and 
performance restricted stock awards. 
(b) The number of shares to be issued upon exercise will be determin
ed at vesting based on the difference between the grant price a
nd the market price at the date of exercise. 
(c) Excludes 0.5 million outstanding options awarded under plans assu
med by the Bancorp in connection with certain mergers and acqu
isitions. The Bancorp has not made any awards under these plans 
and will make no additional awards under these plans. The weight
ed-average exercise price of the outstanding options is $19.69 
per share.  
 (d) Phantom stock units are settled in cash. 
(e) The number of shares to be issued is dependent upon the Bancor
p achieving certain predefined performance targets and ranges fro
m zero shares to approximately 2 million shares. 
(f) Represents remaining shares of Fifth Third common stock under the 
Bancorp™s 1993 Stock Purchase Pl
an, as amended and restated, 
including an additional 1.5 million shares approved by 
shareholders on March 28, 2007 and an additional 12 mi
llion shares approved by shareholders on April 21, 2009. 
 Stock-based awards are eligible for issuance under the Bancorp™s 
Incentive Compensation Plan to key employees and directors of the 

Bancorp and its subsidiaries. The 
Incentive Compensation Plan was 
approved by shareholders on Apr
il 19, 2011, and authorized the 
issuance of up to 39 million shares
 plus up to 4.5 million shares 
under the Predecessor Plan for Full Value Awards as equity 
compensation and provides for incentive and nonqualified stock 

options, stock appreciation rights
, restricted stock awards and 
restricted stock units, and performance shares. Full Value Awards 

are defined as awards with no ca
sh outlay for the employee to 
obtain the full value. Based on total stock-based awards outstanding 

(including stock options, stock appr
eciation rights, restricted stock 
and performance units) and shares remaining for future grants 
under the 2011 Incentive Compensati
on Plan, the potential dilution 
to which the Bancorp™s shareholders of common stock are exposed 

due to the potential that stock-based compensation will be awarded 
to executives, directors or key employees of the Bancorp is seven 
percent. SARs, restricted stock, stock options and performance 

units outstanding represent seven percent of the Bancorp™s issued 

shares at December 31, 2013. 
All of the Bancorp™s stock-based awards are to be settled with 
stock with the exception of phantom stock units that are to be 
settled in cash. The Bancorp has hi
storically used treasury stock to 
settle stock-based awards, when available. SARs, issued at fair value 

based on the closing price of the Bancorp™s common stock on the 

date of grant, have up to ten-year terms and vest and become 

exercisable either ratably or fu
lly over a four year period of 
continued employment. The Bancorp does not grant discounted 

SARs or stock options, re-price previously granted SARs or stock 
options, or grant reload stock options. Restricted stock grants vest 
after four years, or ratably over three or four years or ratably after 

three years of continued employment and include dividend and 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  150  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 voting rights. Stock options were previously issued at fair value 
based on the closing price of the Bancorp™s common stock on the 

date of grant, have up to ten-year terms and vested and became fully 

exercisable ratably over a three or
 four year period of continued 
employment. Performance unit awards
 have three-year cliff vesting 
terms with market conditions as defined by the plan. All of the 

Bancorp™s executive stock-based awards contain a performance 

hurdle of two percent return on tangible common equity. If this 

threshold is not met all awards that
 would vest in the next year are 
forfeited. The Bancorp met this threshold as of December 31, 2013.  
Stock-based compensation expense was $78 million, $69 
million and $59 million for the years ended December 31, 2013, 

2012 and 2011, respectively, and is in
cluded in salaries, wages, and 
incentives in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The total 
related income tax benefit recogniz
ed was $28 million, $24 million 
and $21 million for the years 
ended December 31, 2013, 2012 and 
2011, respectively.  
 Stock Appreciation Rights 
The Bancorp uses assumptions, which are evaluated and revised as 

necessary, in estimating the grant-date fair value of each SAR grant.
  The weighted-average assumptions were as follows for the years ended December 31:
          2013 
2012 
2011 
Expected life (in years)  
6 6 6 Expected volatility  
36%37%
35%
Expected dividend yield  
3.0%2.8%
2.0%
Risk-free interest rate 
1.0%1.2%
2.6%
        The expected life is derived from historical exercise patterns and 
represents the amount of time that SARs granted are expected to be 

outstanding. The expected volatility is based on a combination of 

historical and implied volatilities 
of the Bancorp™s common stock. 
The expected dividend yield is ba
sed on annual dividends divided by 
the Bancorp™s stock price. Annual dividends are based on projected 

dividends, estimated using a hist
orical long-term dividend payout 
ratio, over the estimated life of the awards. The risk-free interest 
rate for periods within the contractual life of the SARs is based on 

the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.   
The grant-date fair value of SARs is measured using the Black-
Scholes option-pricing model.
 The weighted-average grant-date fair 
value of SARs granted was $4.56, $4.23 and $4.29 per share for the 

years ended 2013, 2012 and 2011, resp
ectively. The total grant-date 
fair value of SARs that vested during 2013, 2012 and 2011 was $29 

million, $22 million, and $20 million, respectively.   
At December 31, 2013, there was $68 million of stock-based 
compensation expense related to nonvested SARs not yet 
recognized. The expense is expected to be recognized over a 

remaining weighted-average period of approximately 2.6 years. 
   2013 
 2012 
 2011  
     Weighted- 
    Weighted-
    Weighted- 
  Number of 
SARs 
Average 
Number of 
SARs 
Average 
Number of 
SARs 
Average 
SARs (Number of SARs in thousands) 
Grant Price 
Grant Price 
Grant Price 
Outstanding at January 1 
 44,120 
$20.41
   36,502 
$22.20 
   31,152 
$24.67
  Granted 
 10,267 
16.16 12,179 
14.36 
 8,633 
13.36
Exercised 
 (2,904)
11.18 (1,271)
6.29 
 (521)
3.96
Forfeited or expired 
 (2,884)
21.78
 (3,290)
23.33 
 (2,762)
25.76
Outstanding at December 31 
 48,599 
$19.98 44,120 
$20.41 
 36,502 
$22.20
Exercisable at December 31 
 26,462 
$24.14
 23,248 
$26.76 
 20,070 
$30.29
 The following table summarizes outstanding and ex
ercisable SARs by grant price at December 31, 2013:
                              Outstanding SARs  
 Exercisable SARs 
        Weighted- 
        Weighted- 
        Average 
        Average 
  Number of 
   Remaining 
 Number of 
   Remaining 
  SARs at  
Weighted- 
Contractual 
 SARs at  
Weighted- 
Contractual 
  Year End 
Average 
Life 
 Year End 
Average 
Life 
Grant price per share 
(000s) 
Grant Price 
(in years) 
 (000s) 
Grant Price 
(in years) 
Under $10.00 
 4,096 
$ 4.08
   5.3 
     4,096 
$4.08 
   5.3
  $10.01-$20.00 
 34,077 
 15.36
   7.6 
     11,940 
16.00 
   6.2
  $20.01-$30.00 
 33 
 22.85
   4.0 
     33 
22.85 
   4.0
  $30.01-$40.00 
 6,713 
 38.68
 2.7 
 6,713 
38.68 
 2.7
Over $40.00
  3,680 
 46.32
 1.2 
 3,680 
46.32 
 1.2
All SARs 
  48,599 
$ 19.98
 6.2 
 26,462 
$24.14 
 4.5
    Restricted Stock Awards  
The total grant-date fair value of RSAs that vested during 2013, 
2012 and 2011 was $40 million, $32 million and $37 million, 

respectively. At December 31, 2013, there was $69 million of stock-
based compensation expense related to nonvested restricted stock 
not yet recognized. The expense is ex
pected to be recognized over a 
remaining weighted-average period of approximately 2.6 years. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 151  Fifth Third Bancorp 
   2013 
 2012 
 2011  
     Weighted- 
   Weighted-
    Weighted- 
     Average 
   Average 
   Average 
     Grant -Date 
   Grant -Date 
   Grant -Date 
RSAs (shares in thousands) 
Shares Fair Value 
Shares Fair Value 
Shares Fair Value 
Nonvested at January 1 
 6,379 
$14.32   4,764 
$15.95 
   5,158 
$18.89
  Granted 
 3,583 
16.21 3,863 
14.33 
 1,702 
13.19
Exercised 
 (2,720)
14.71 (1,826)
18.37 
 (1,646)
22.52
Forfeited  (532)
14.97 (422)
15.35 
 (450)
15.34
Nonvested at December 31 
 6,710 
$15.11 6,379 
$14.32 
 4,764 
$ 15.95
 The following table summarizes unvested RSAs 
by grant-date fair value at December 31, 2013:            Nonvested RSAs 
    Weighted-Average 
  Number of 
Remaining 
  RSAs at Year End 
Contractual Life 
Grant-Date Fair Value Per Share 
(000s) 
(in years) 
$5.01-$10.00 
 62 
 1.7
  $10.01-$15.00 
 3,363 
 1.1
  $15.01-$20.00 
 3,285 
 1.8
  All RSAs 
 6,710 
   1.4
    Stock options 
The grant-date fair value of stock options is measured using the 
Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
 There were no stock options 
granted during 2013, 2012 and 2011.  The total intrinsic value of opti
ons exercised was $1 million in 
2013 and 2012 and was immaterial to the Bancorp™s Consolidated 

Financial Statements in 2011. Cash received from options exercised 
was $2 million in 2013 and 2012 and $1 million in 2011. The tax 
benefit realized from exercised options was immaterial to the 
Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements during 2013, 2012, 

and 2011. All stock options were vested as of December 31, 2008, 

therefore, no stock options vested during 2013, 2012, or 2011. As of 

December 31, 2013, the aggregate intrinsic value of both 

outstanding options and exercisable options was $3 million. 
   2013 
 2012 
 2011  
     Weighted- 
    Weighted-
    Weighted- 
  Number of  
Average 
Number of  
Average 
Number of  
Average 
Stock Options (Number of Options in thousands) 
Options 
Exercise PriceOptions 
Exercise Price 
Options 
Grant Price 
Outstanding at January 1 
 3,877 
$45.00
   7,584 
$53.88 
   11,859 
$52.01
  Exercised 
 (190)
11.88 (205)
10.32 
 (96)
 9.25
Forfeited or expired 
 (3,141)
51.23
 (3,502)
66.25 
 (4,179)
 49.61
Outstanding at December 31 
 546 
$20.72
 3,877 
$45.00 
 7,584 
$53.88
Exercisable at December 31 
 546 
$20.72
 3,877 
$45.00 
 7,584 
$53.88
 The following table summarizes outstand
ing and exercisable stock options by
 exercise price at December 31, 2013:
                 Outstanding and Exercisable Stock Options 
  Number of 
Options at Year 
End (000s) 
    Weighted-
Average 
Remaining 
Contractual Life 
(in years) 
  Weighted- 
  Average 
Exercise price per share 
Exercise PriceUnder $10.00 
 1 
$ 8.59 
   5.0
  $10.01-$20.00 
 385 
 13.42 
   1.6
  $20.01-$30.00 
 1 
 24.41 
   4.0
  $30.01-$40.00 
 133 
 36.38 
 0.3
Over $40.00
  26 
 49.46 
 1.1
All stock options
  546 
$ 20.72 
 1.3
    Other stock-based compensation  
The Bancorp™s Board of Directors previously approved the use of 
phantom stock units as part of 
its compensation for executives in 
connection with changes made in reaction to the TARP 

compensation rules. On February
 22, 2011, the Bancorp redeemed 
its Series F preferred stock held by the U.S. Treasury under the 
CPP. As a result of this redemption, the last payment of phantom 
stock occurred in April of 2011. The phantom stock units were 
issued under the Bancorp™s 2008 Incentive Compensation Plan. The 

number of phantom stock units was determined each pay period by 

dividing the amount of salary to be paid in phantom stock units for 

that pay period, by the reported closing price of the Bancorp™s 

common stock on the pay date for such pay period. The phantom 
stock units vested immediately on issuance. Phantom stock was 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  152  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 expensed based on the number of outstanding units multiplied by 
the closing price of the Bancorp™s stock at period end. The phantom 

stock units did not include any rights to receive dividends or 

dividend equivalents. Phantom stock units issued on or before June 
12, 2010 were settled in cash upon the earlier to occur of June 15, 
2011 or the executive™s death. Units issued thereafter were settled in 

cash with 50% settled on June 15, 2012 and 50% settled on June 15, 

2013. The amount paid on settlement of the phantom stock units 

was equal to the total amount of phantom stock units settled at the 

reported closing price of the Bancorp™s common stock on the 

settlement date. Under the phantom stock program, no phantom 

stock units were granted during the years ended December 31, 2013 
and 2012, and phantom stock units of 132,649 were granted with a 
weighted average grant price of $14.40 during the year ended 

December 31, 2011. During 2013, 
2012 and 2011, 200,130, 199,813, 
and 521,091 phantom stock units were settled, respectively.  
Performance units are payable contingent upon the Bancorp 
achieving certain predefined perfor
mance targets over the three-year 
measurement period. Awards granted during 2013, 2012 and 2011 

will be entirely settled in stock. The performance targets are based 
on the Bancorp™s performance relative to a defined peer group. 
During 2013, 2012 and 2011, 348,
595, 344,741, and 328,061 
performance units, respectively, were granted by the Bancorp. These 

awards were granted at a weighted-average grant-date fair value of 

$16.15, $14.36 and $13.36 per un
it during 2013, 2012 and 2011, 
respectively.  The Bancorp sponsors a stock purchase plan that allows 
qualifying employees to purchase shares of the Bancorp™s common 
stock with a 15% match. Duri
ng the years ended December 31, 
2013, 2012 and 2011, there we
re 690,039, 827,709 and 886,447 
shares, respectively, purchased by participants and the Bancorp 

recognized stock-based compensati
on expense of $1 million in each 
of the respective years.
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 153  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 25. OTHER NONINTEREST INCOME AND OTHER NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 The following table presents the major components of other noninterest income and other noninterest expense for the years ended
 December 31:
                 ($ in millions) 
  2013 
  2012 
  2011  
Other noninterest income:  
           Gain on Vantiv, Inc. IPO and sale of Vantiv, Inc. shares 
$  336 
 272 
 - 
    Net gain from warrant and put option associated with sale of the processing business
    206 
 67 
 39 
    Equity method income from interest in Vantiv Holding, LLC 
   77 
 61 
 57 
    Operating lease income
    75 
 60 
 58 
    BOLI income
    52 
 35 
 41 
    Cardholder fees 
   47 
 46 
 41 
    Banking center income 
   34 
 32 
 27 
    Consumer loan and lease fees 
   27 
 27 
 31 
    Insurance income    25 
 28 
 28 
    Gain on loan sales 
   3 
 20 
 37 
    TSA revenue 
   1 
 1 
 21 
    Loss on OREO 
   (26)
 (57)
 (71)
    Loss on swap associated with the sa
le of Visa, Inc. class B shares 
   (31)
 (45)
 (83)
    Other, net 
   53 
 27 
 24 
  Total 
$  879 
 574 
 250 
  Other noninterest expense:  
      Losses and adjustments 
$  221 
 187 
 129 
    Loan and lease 
   158 
 183 
 195 
    FDIC insurance and other taxes
    127 
 114 
 201 
    Marketing
    114 
 128 
 115 
    Impairment of affordable housing investments 
   108 
 90 
 85 
    Professional services fees 
   76 
 56 
 58 
    Operating lease 
   57 
 43 
 41 
    Travel 
   54 
 52 
 52 
    Postal and courier 
   48 
 48 
 49 
    Data processing 
   42 
 40 
 29 
    Recruitment and education 
   26 
 28 
 31 
    Insurance    17 
 18 
 25 
    OREO expense 
   16 
 21 
 34 
    Supplies 
   16 
 17 
 18 
    Intangible asset amortization 
   8 
 13 
 22 
    Loss (gain) on debt extinguishment 
   8 
 169 
 (8)
    Benefit from the reserve for unfunded
 commitments and letters of credit 
   (17)
 (2)
 (46)
    Other, net 
   185 
 169 
 194 
  Total 
$  1,264 
 1,374 
 1,224 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  154  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 26.  EARNINGS PER SHARE 
The calculation of earnings per share and the reconciliation of 
earnings per share and earnings
 per diluted share for the years ended December 31:
                             2013 
  2012 
   2011 
       AveragePer Share   AveragePer Share 
    AveragePer Share(in millions, except per share data) 
  Income 
Shares Amount
 Income 
Shares Amount 
  Income 
Shares Amount
Earnings per share:
                        Net income attributable to Bancorp 
$  1,836 
      1,576 
       1,297 
    Dividends on preferred stock 
   37 
      35 
       203 
    Net income available to common shareholders 
   1,799 
      1,541 
       1,094 
    Less: Income allocated to participating securities 
   14 
      10 
       6 
    Net income allocated to
 common shareholders 
$  1,785 
 869 
 2.05 
  1,531 
 904 
 1.69 
   1,088 
 906 
 1.20 
Earnings per diluted share:
                        Net income available to common shareholders 
$  1,799 
      1,541 
       1,094 
    Effect of dilutive securities: 
                           Stock-based awards 
   - 
 8 
    - 
 6 
     - 
 6 
      Series G convertible preferred stock 
   18 
 18 
    35 
 36 
     35 
 36 
      Warrants related to Series F preferred stock 
   - 
 - 
    - 
 - 
     - 
 2 
  Net income available to common shareholders 
   1,817 
      1,576 
       1,129 
        plus assumed conversions 
                       Less: Income allocated to participating securities 
   14 
      10 
       6 
    Net income allocated to
 common shareholders 
                           plus assumed conversions 
$  1,803 
895 
2.02 
  1,566 
946 
1.66 
   1,123 
950 
1.18 
Shares are excluded from the computation of net income per diluted 
share when their inclusion has an an
ti-dilutive effect on earnings per 
share. The diluted earnings per 
share computation for 2013, 2012, 
and 2011 excludes 24 million, 36 million, and 29 million, 
respectively, of stock appreciation rights and 1 million, 5 million, 

and 8 million, respectively, of stoc
k options because their inclusion 
would have been anti-dilutive.  
The diluted earnings per share computation for the year ended 
December 31, 2013 excludes the impact of the forward contracts 

related to the November 18, 2013 and December 13, 2013 

accelerated share repurchase tr
ansactions. Based on the average daily volume-weighted average price of the Bancorp™s common 
stock during the fourth quarter 
of 2013, the counterparty to the 
transactions would have been required to deliver approximately 5 

million shares as of December 31, 2013,
 and thus the impact of the 
two accelerated share repurchase tr
ansactions would have been anti-
dilutive to earnings per share.
 The diluted earnings per share 
computation for the year ended December 31, 2012 excludes the 

impact of the forward contracts related to the November 6, 2012 
and December 14, 2012 accelerated share repurchase transactions 
because, based upon the average 
daily volume-weighted average 
price of the Bancorp™s common stock during the fourth quarter of 

2012, the counterparty to the transa
ctions would have been required 
to deliver approximately 1 million shares as of December 31, 2012, 

and thus the impact of the two accelerated share repurchase 

transactions would have been anti-dilutive to earnings per share. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 155  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 27. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS The Bancorp measures certain fina
ncial assets and liabilities at fair 
value in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which defines fair value as the 
price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a 

liability in an orderly transaction be
tween market participants at the 
measurement date. U.S. GAAP als
o establishes a fair value 
hierarchy, which prioritizes the i
nputs to valuation techniques used 
to measure fair value into three broad levels. The fair value 
hierarchy gives the highest priori
ty to quoted prices in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest 
priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). A financial instrument™s 

categorization within the fair v
alue hierarchy is based upon the 
lowest level of input that is signif
icant to the instrument™s fair value 
measurement. For more information regarding the fair value 

hierarchy and how the Bancorp measures fair value, see Note 1.   
 Assets and Liabilities Measured at
 Fair Value on a Recurring Basi
sThe following tables summarize assets and liabilities measured at
 fair value on a recurring basis, including residential mortga
ge loans held for sale 
for which the Bancorp has elected the fair value option as of:
       Fair Value Measurements Using 
  December 31, 2013 ($ in millions)
  Level 1
(c)
 Level 2
(c) 
Level 3
 Total Fair Value 
Assets: 
      Available-for-sale securities: 
      U.S. Treasury 
and Government agencies $ 26 
 - 
 - 
 26
     U.S. Government sponsored agencies
   - 
 1,644 
 - 
 1,644
     Obligations of states and political subdivisions
   - 
 192 
 - 
 192
     Agency mortgage-backed securities
   - 
 12,284 
 - 
 12,284
     Other bonds, notes and debentures
   - 
 3,582 
 - 
 3,582
     Other securities
(a)    89 
 29 
 - 
 118
       Available-for-sale securities
(a)    115 
 17,731 
 - 
 17,846
      Trading securities:
       U.S. Treasury and Government agencies
   1 
 - 
 - 
 1     U.S. Government sponsored agencies
   - 
 4 
 - 
 4     Obligations of states and political subdivisions
   - 
 12 
 1 
 13
     Agency mortgage-backed securities
   - 
 3 
 - 
 3     Other bonds, notes and debentures
   - 
 7 
 - 
 7     Other securities
   315 
 - 
 - 
 315
       Trading securities
   316 
 26 
 1 
 343
      Residential mortgage loans held for sale
   - 
 890 
 - 
 890
   Residential mortgage loans
(b)    - 
 - 
 92 
 92
   Derivative assets:
       Interest rate contracts
   13 
 802 
 12 
 827
     Foreign exchange contracts
   - 
 276 
 - 
 276
     Equity contracts
   - 
 - 
 384 
 384
     Commodity contracts
   18 
 48 
 - 
 66
       Derivative assets
   31 
 1,126 
 396 
 1,553
Total assets
 $ 462 
 19,773 
 489 
 20,724
   Liabilities:
     Derivative liabilities:
       Interest rate contracts
 $ 1 
 384 
 4 
 389
     Foreign exchange contracts
   - 
 252 
 - 
 252
     Equity contracts
   - 
 - 
 48 
 48
     Commodity contracts
   9 
 56 
 - 
 65
       Derivative liabilities
   10 
 692 
 52 
 754
   Short positions
   4 
 4 
 - 
 8Total liabilities
 $ 14 
 696 
 52 
 762
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  156  Fifth Third Bancorp 
   Fair Value Measurements Using 
  December 31, 2012 ($ in millions) 
 Level 1
(c) 
 Level 2
(c)  
Level 3
 Total Fair Value 
Assets: 
      Available-for-sale securities: 
      U.S. Treasury 
and Government agencies $ 41 
 - 
 - 
 41
     U.S. Government sponsored agencies 
  - 
 1,911 
 - 
 1,911
     Obligations of states and political subdivisions 
  - 
 212 
 - 
 212
     Agency mortgage-backed securities 
  - 
 8,730 
 - 
 8,730
     Other bonds, notes and debentures 
  - 
 3,277 
 - 
 3,277
     Other securities
(a)    79 
 113 
 - 
 192
       Available-for-sale securities
(a)    120 
 14,243 
 - 
 14,363
      Trading securities: 
      U.S. Treasury 
and Government agencies   1 
 - 
 - 
 1     U.S. Government sponsored agencies 
  - 
 6 
 - 
 6     Obligations of states and political subdivisions 
  - 
 16 
 1 
 17
     Agency mortgage-backed securities 
  - 
 7 
 - 
 7     Other bonds, notes and debentures 
  - 
 15 
 - 
 15
     Other securities 
  161 
 - 
 - 
 161
       Trading securities 
  162 
 44 
 1 
 207
      Residential mortgage loans held for sale 
  - 
 2,856 
 - 
 2,856
   Residential mortgage loans
(b)    - 
 - 
 76 
 76
   Derivative assets: 
      Interest rate contracts 
  2 
 1,445 
 60 
 1,507
     Foreign exchange contracts 
  - 
 201 
 - 
 201
     Equity contracts 
  - 
 - 
 177 
 177
     Commodity contracts 
  - 
 87 
 - 
 87
       Derivative assets 
  2 
 1,733 
 237 
 1,972
Total assets 
$ 284 
 18,876 
 314 
 19,474
   Liabilities: 
    Derivative liabilities: 
      Interest rate contracts 
$ 14 
 600 
 3 
 617
     Foreign exchange contracts 
  - 
 183 
 - 
 183
     Equity contracts 
  - 
 - 
 33 
 33
     Commodity contracts 
  - 
 82 
 - 
 82
       Derivative liabilities 
  14 
 865 
 36 
 915
   Short positions 
  8 
 2 
 - 
 10
Total liabilities 
$ 22 
 867 
 36 
 925
(a) Excludes FHLB and FRB restricted stock totaling 
$402
 and 
$349
, respectively, at 
December 31, 2013
 and $497 and $347, respectively, at December 31, 2012. 
(b) Includes residential mortgage loans originated as held for 
sale and subsequently transferred to held for investment. 
(c) During the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, no assets 
or liabilities were transferred between Level 1 and Level 2.  
     
The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used 
for significant instruments measured 
at fair value, as well as the 
general classification of such inst
ruments pursuant 
to the valuation 
hierarchy.  
 
Available-for-sale an
d trading securities 
Where quoted prices are available in 
an active market, securities are 
classified within Level 1 of the valu
ation hierarchy. Level 1 securities include government bonds and exchange traded equities. If quoted 
market prices are not available, then
 fair values are estimated using 
quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics, or pricing 

models, such as discounted ca
sh flows. Examples of such 
instruments, which are classified within Level 2 of the valuation 

hierarchy, include agency and non-agency mortgage-backed 

securities, other asset-backed s
ecurities, obligations of U.S. 
Government sponsored agencies, and corporate and municipal 

bonds. Corporate bonds are included in other bonds, notes and 
debentures in the previous table. Agency mortgage-backed 
securities, obligations of U.S. Government sponsored agencies, and 

corporate and municipal bonds are generally valued using a market 
approach based on observable prices
 of securities with similar 
characteristics.   
Residential mortgage loans held for sale  

For residential mortgage loans held 
for sale, fair value is estimated 
based upon mortgage-backed securiti
es prices and spreads to those 
prices or, for certain ARM loans, DCF models that may incorporate 

the anticipated portfolio composition,
 credit spreads of asset-backed 
securities with similar collateral and market conditions. The 
anticipated portfolio composition includes the effect of interest rate 
spreads and discount rates due to loan characteristics such as the 

state in which the loan was orig
inated, the loan amount and the 
ARM margin. Residential mortgage loans held for sale that are 

valued based on mortgage backed s
ecurities prices are classified 
within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy as the valuation is based on 

external pricing for similar instruments. ARM loans classified as 

held for sale are also classified 
within Level 2 of the valuation 
hierarchy due to the use of observable inputs in the DCF model. 
These observable inputs include interest rate spreads from agency 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 157  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 mortgage-backed securities market
 rates and observable discount 
rates.  

 Residential mortgage loans Residential mortgage loans held for sale that are reclassified to held 

for investment are transferred from 
Level 2 to Level 3 of the fair 
value hierarchy. It is the Bancor
p™s policy to value any transfers 
between levels of the fair value hierarchy based on end of period 

fair values.  For residential mortgage loans reclassified from held for sale to 
held for investment, the fair value estimation is based on mortgage-
backed securities prices, intere
st rate risk and an internally 
developed credit component. Therefore, these loans are classified 

within Level 3 of the valuation hier
archy. An adverse change in the 
loss rate or severity assumption woul
d result in a decrease in fair 
value of the related loan. The Secondary Marketing Department, 

which reports to the Bancorp™s Chief Operating Officer, in 

conjunction with the Consumer 
Credit Risk Department, which 
reports to the Bancorp™s Chief Risk and Credit Officer, are 
responsible for determining the valuation methodology for 
residential mortgage loans held for investment. The Secondary 

Marketing Department reviews loss severity assumptions quarterly 

to determine if adjustments are necessary based on decreases in 

observable housing market data. This
 group also reviews trades in 
comparable benchmark securities and adjusts the values of loans as 

necessary. Consumer Credit Risk is responsible for the credit 

component of the fair value which is based on internally developed 
loss rate models that take into a
ccount historical loss rates and loss severities based on underlying collateral values. 

 
Derivatives 

Exchange-traded derivatives valued using quoted prices and certain 

over-the-counter derivatives valued using active bids are classified 

within Level 1 of the valuation hi
erarchy. Most of the Bancorp™s
derivative contracts are valued usin
g discounted cash flow or other 
models that incorporate current market interest rates, credit spreads 
assigned to the derivative counterparties and other market 

parameters and, therefore, are classified within Level 2 of the 

valuation hierarchy. Such derivati
ves include basic and structured 
interest rate swaps and options. Derivatives that are valued based 

upon models with significant u
nobservable market parameters are 
classified within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. At December 

31, 2013 and 2012, derivatives classified
 as Level 3, which are valued 
using models containing unobservabl
e inputs, consisted primarily of 
a warrant associated with the initial sale of the Bancorp™s 51% 

interest in Vantiv Holding, LLC 
to Advent International and a total 
return swap associated with the Ba
ncorp™s sale of Visa, Inc. Class B 
shares. Level 3 derivatives also include interest rate lock 

commitments, which utilize internally
 generated loan closing rate 
assumptions as a significant unobs
ervable input in the valuation 
process.  
The warrant allows the Bancorp to
 purchase approximately 20 
million incremental nonvoting units in
 Vantiv Holding, LLC under 
certain defined conditions involving change of control. The fair 

value of the warrant is calculated in conjunction with a third party 

valuation provider by applying
 Black-Scholes option valuation 
models using probability weighted
 scenarios which contain the 
following inputs: Vantiv, Inc. st
ock price, strike price per the 
Warrant Agreement and several unobservable inputs, such as 
expected term, expected volatility,
 and expected dividend rate.  
For the warrant, an increase in the expected term (years) and 
the expected volatility assumptions wo
uld result in an increase in the 
fair value; correspondingly, a decr
ease in these assumptions would 
result in a decrease in the fair 
value. The Accounting and Treasury 
Departments, both of which report to the Bancorp™s Chief Financial 

Officer, determined the valuation methodology for the warrant. 

Accounting and Treasury review changes in fair value on a quarterly 

basis for reasonableness based on ch
anges in historical and implied 
volatilities, expected terms, prob
ability weightings of the related 
scenarios, and other assumptions. 
Under the terms of the total return swap, the Bancorp will 
make or receive payments based on subsequent changes in the 
conversion rate of the Visa, Inc. Cl
ass B shares into Class A shares. 
Additionally, the Bancorp will make
 a quarterly payment based on 
Visa™s stock price and the conversi
on rate of the Visa, Inc. Class B 
shares into Class A shares unt
il the date on which the Covered 
Litigation is settled. The fair value of the total return swap was 

calculated using a discounted cash flow model based on 

unobservable inputs consisting of
 management™s estimate of the 
probability of certain litigation scenarios, the timing of the 
resolution of the Covered Litiga
tion and Visa litigation loss 
estimates in excess, or shortfall, of the Bancorp™s proportional share 

of escrow funds. 
An increase in the loss estimate or a delay in the resolution of 
the Covered Litigation would result 
in an increase in fair value; 
correspondingly, a decrease in the loss estimate or an acceleration of 

the resolution of the Covered Litigation would result in a decrease 
in fair value. The Accounting and Treasury Departments 
determined the valuation methodol
ogy for the total return swap. 
Accounting and Treasury review the changes in fair value on a 

quarterly basis for reasonableness based on Visa stock price 

changes, litigation contingencies, and escrow funding. The net fair value asset of the interest rate lock commitments 
at December 31, 2013 was $11 million. Immediate decreases in 

current interest rates of 25 bps and 50 bps would result in increases 
in the fair value of the interest rate lock commitments of 
approximately $8 million and $15 million, respectively. Immediate 
increases of current interest rates 
of 25 bps and 50 bps would result 
in decreases in the fair value of 
the interest rate lock commitments 
of approximately $9 million and $18 million, respectively. The 

decrease in fair value of interest rate lock commitments due to 

immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in the assumed loan 

closing rates would be approximately $1 million and $2 million, 
respectively, and the increase in fair value due to immediate 10% 
and 20% favorable changes in the assumed loan closing rates would 

be approximately $1 million and 
$2 million, respectively. These 
sensitivities are hypothetical and should be used with caution, as 

changes in fair value based on a variation in assumptions typically 

cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in 

assumptions to the change in f
air value may not be linear.  
The Secondary Marketing Department and the Consumer Line 
of Business Finance Department, which reports to the Bancorp™s 
Chief Financial Officer, are responsible for determining the 

valuation methodology for IRLCs. Secondary Marketing, in 

conjunction with a third party 
valuation provider, periodically 
review loan closing rate assump
tions and recent loan sales to 
determine if adjustments are needed for current market conditions 

not reflected in historical data.  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  158  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following tables are a reconciliation of
 assets and liabilities measured at fair v
alue on a recurring basis using significa
nt unobservable inputs 
(Level 3):       Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) 
     Residential 
Interest Rate 
Equity 
   For the year ended December 31, 2013
 Trading
 Mortgage  
Derivatives, 
Derivatives, 
 Total 
($ in millions) 
Securities 
Loans Net(a) Net(a)   Fair Value
 Beginning balance 
$ 1 
 76 
 57 
 144 
$ 278 
   Total gains or losses (realized/unrealized): 
      Included in earnings 
  - 
 (1)
 59 
 175 
 233 
   Purchases
   - 
 - 
 (2)
 - 
 (2)
   Settlements
   - 
 (17)
 (106)
 17 
 (106)
   Transfers into Level 3
(b)    - 
 34 
 - 
 - 
 34 
Ending balance
 $ 1 
 92 
 8 
 336 
$ 437 
The amount of total gains (losses) for the period
          included in earnings attributable to the change in
        unrealized gains or losses relating to assets
        still held at December 31, 2013
(c) $ - 
 (1)
 11 
 175 
$ 185 
   Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) 
     Residential 
Interest Rate 
Equity 
    For the year ended December 31, 2012 
Trading 
Mortgage  
Derivatives, 
Derivatives, 
  Total 
($ in millions) 
Securities 
Loans Net(a) Net(a)    Fair Value
Beginning balance 
$ 1 
 65 
32 
 32 
$130 
   Total gains or losses (realized/unrealized): 
       Included in earnings 
  - 
 - 
 418 
22 
 440 
   Settlements 
  - 
(15)
(393)
 90 
 (318)
   Transfers into Level 3
(b)    - 
 26 
 - 
 - 
 26 
Ending balance 
$ 1 
 76 
 57 
144 
$278 
The amount of total gains (losses) for the period 
        included in earnings attributable to the change in 
        unrealized gains or losses relating to assets 
        still held at December 31, 2012
(c) $  - 
 - 
 233 
22 
$255 
   Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3) 
     Residential 
Interest Rate 
Equity      For the year ended December 31, 2011 
 Trading 
Mortgage  
Derivatives,  
Derivatives, 
  Total 
($ in millions) 
 Securities
Loans Net(a) Net(a)    Fair Value
Beginning balance 
$ 6 
 46 
2 53 
$ 107 
   Total gains or losses (realized/unrealized): 
       Included in earnings 
  - 
 4 
205 
(43)
  166 
   Purchases 
  - 
 - 
 - 
2  2    Sales 
  (5)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (5)
   Settlements 
  - 
(9)
(175)
20 
 (164)
   Transfers into Level 3
(b)    - 
 24 
 - 
 - 
  24 
Ending balance 
$ 1 
 65 
 32 
 32 
$ 130 
The amount of total gains (losses) for the period 
          included in earnings attributable to the change in 
          unrealized gains or losses relating to assets 
          still held at December 31, 2011
(c) $  - 
 4 
32 
(43)
$(7)
(a) Net interest rate derivatives include derivative assets and liabilities of 
$12 
and 
$4, respectively, as of 
December 31, 2013
, $60 and $3, respectively as of December 31, 2012 and $34 and $2, 
respectively, as of December 31, 2011. Net equity de
rivatives include derivative assets and liabilities of 
$384
 and 
$48
, respectively, as of 
December 31, 2013,
 $177 and $33, respectively, as of 
December 31, 2012, and $113 and $81, respectively, as of December 31, 2011. 
(b) Includes residential mortgage loans held for sale 
that were transferred to held for investment. 
(c) Includes interest income and expense. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 159  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The total gains and losses included in earn
ings for assets and liabilities measured at
 fair value on a recurring basis using si
gnificant unobservable
inputs (Level 3) were recorded in the C
onsolidated Statements of Income as follows:
      ($ in millions)
  2013 
 2012 
 2011  
Mortgage banking net revenue 
  57 
 418 
 210 
Corporate banking revenue 
  1 
 1 
 2 
Other noninterest income 
  175 
 21 
 (46)
Total gains 
$ 233 
 440 
 166 
 The total gains and losses included in earnin
gs attributable to changes in unrealized 
gains and losses related to Level 3 asset
s and liabilities still held
at December 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 were recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Income as follows:
      ($ in millions)
  2013 
 2012 
 2011  
Mortgage banking net revenue 
 10 
 233 
 37 
Corporate banking revenue 
  - 
 1 
 1 
Other noninterest income 
  175 
 21 
 (45)
Total (losses) gains 
$ 185 
 255 
 (7)
      The following table presents information as of December 31, 2013 a
bout significant unobservable inpu
ts related to the Bancorp™s
 material
categories of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities measured on a recurring basis:
        ($ in millions) 
             Financial Instrument  
  Fair Value 
Valuation Technique 
Significant Unobservable 
Inputs  
Ranges of 
Inputs  
Weighted-Average
Residential mortgage loans  
$ 92 
 Loss rate model 
 Interest rate risk factor  
(23.7) - 16.5%
2.3%        Credit risk factor  
0 - 63.4%
2.6%IRLCs, net 
   11  Discounted cash flow 
 Loan closing rates  
14.9 - 98.7%
68.5%
Stock warrant associated with Vantiv Holding, LLC
   384 
 Black-Scholes option
 Expected term (years)  
2.00 - 15.50
5.1       valuation model 
 Expected volatility(a) 18.5 - 33.2%
25.4%
        Expected dividend rate  
--Swap associated with th
e sale of Visa, Inc. 
   (48) Discounted cash flow 
 Timing of the resolution  
12/31/2014 -
NMClass B shares
       of the Covered Litigation 
12/31/2019(a) Based on historical and implied volatilities of co
mparable companies assuming similar expected terms.
 The following table presents information as of December 31, 2012 a
bout significant unobservable inpu
ts related to the Bancorp™s
 material 
categories of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities measured on a recurring basis:
        ($ in millions) 
             Financial Instrument  
  Fair Value 
Valuation Technique 
Significant Unobservable 
Inputs  
Ranges of 
Inputs  
Weighted-Average
Residential mortgage loans  
$ 76  
Loss rate model  
Interest rate risk factor  
(91.2) - 17.0%
5.8%
        Credit risk factor  
0 - 68.4%
4.3%
IRLCs, net  
  60  
Discounted cash flow  
Loan closing rates  
9.9 - 95.0%
58.3%
Stock warrant associated with Vantiv Holding, LLC 
  177  
Black-Scholes option 
Expected term (years)  
2.00 - 16.50
6.2 
      valuation model  
Expected volatility(a) 27.2 - 40.0%
33.8%
        Expected dividend rate  
--Swap associated with th
e sale of Visa, Inc.  
  (33) 
Discounted cash flow  
Timing of the resolution  
12/31/2013 -
NMClass B shares 
      of the Covered Litigation 
12/31/2016
(a) Based on historical and implied volatilities of co
mparable companies assuming similar expected terms.
                          NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  160  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a 
Nonrecurring Basis 
Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a 

nonrecurring basis. These assets 
and liabilities are not measured at 
fair value on an ongoing basis; 
however, they are subject to fair 
value adjustments in certain circum
stances, such as when there is 
evidence of impairment.  
 The following tables represent those assets that were subject 
to fair value adjustments duri
ng the years ended December 31, 201
3 and 2012 and 
still held as of the end of the period, and the related losses from
 fair value adjustments on assets sold during the period as 
well as assets still held as 
of the end of the period:
          Fair Value Measurements Using
     Total Losses 
 As of December 31, 2013  ($ in millions) 
 Level 1
 Level 2 
Level 3 
Total 
2013 
  Commercial loans held for sale
(a) $ - 
 - 
 3 
 3 
 (7)
Commercial and industrial loans
   - 
 - 
 443 
 443 
 (281)
Commercial mortgage loans
   - 
 - 
 61 
 61 
 (41)
Commercial construction loans
   - 
 - 
 16 
 16 
 (10)
MSRs   - 
 - 
 967 
 967 
 192 
OREO   - 
 - 
 87 
 87 
 (45)
Private equity investment funds
   - 
 - 
 181 
 181 
 (4)
Total 
 $ - 
 - 
 1,758 
 1,758 
 (196)
    Fair Value Measurements Using 
    Total Losses 
 As of December 31, 2012
 ($ in millions) 
 Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
Total 
2012  
 Commercial loans held for sale
(a) $  - 
 - 
 9 
 9 
 (13)
Commercial and industrial loans 
  - 
 - 
 83 
 83 
 (122)
Commercial mortgage loans 
  - 
 - 
 46 
 46 
 (50)
Commercial construction loans 
  - 
 - 
 4 
 4 
 (22)
MSRs   - 
 - 
 697 
 697 
 (103)
OREO 
  - 
 - 
 165 
 165 
 (74)
Total  
$ - 
 - 
 1,004 
 1,004 
 (384)
(a) Includes commercial nonaccrual loans held for sale. 
The following tables present information as of December 31, 2013 
and 2012 about significant unobservable inputs related to the 
Bancorp™s 
material categories of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities measured on a nonrecurring basis:
              As of December 31, 2013
 ($ in millions) 
            Financial Instrument  
  Fair Value  
Valuation Technique 
Significant Unobservable 
Inputs  
Ranges of 
Inputs  
 Weighted-Average 
Commercial loans held for sale  
$ 3  Appraised value
 Appraised value  
NMNM         Cost to sell  
NM10.0%Commercial and industrial loans
   443 
 Appraised value
 Collateral value  
NMNM Commercial mortgage loans 
   61  Appraised value
 Collateral value  
NMNM Commercial construction loans 
   16  Appraised value
 Collateral value  
NMNM MSRs   967 
 Discounted cash flow
 Prepayment speed  
0 - 100%
(Fixed) 10.3%(Adjustable) 25.6%
        Discount rates 
9.4 - 18.0%
(Fixed) 10.4% 
(Adjustable) 11.6%
OREO   87 
 Appraised value
 Appraised value  
NMNM Private equity investment funds
   44(a) Liquidity discount applied 
to fund's net asset value
 Liquidity discount 
0 - 18%
3.0%(a) Includes funds the Bancorp will be prohibited from retaining afte
r the July 21, 2015 end of the 
conformance period for the fina
l rules, adopted under the Bank Holding Company Act, that 
implemented the provision of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 
Consumer Protection Act, commonly referred to as the Volcker
 Rule.  
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 161  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  As of December 31, 2012
 ($ in millions) 
                    Significant Unobservable 
Ranges of 
  Financial Instrument  
  Fair Value  
Valuation Technique 
Inputs 
Inputs 
Weighted-Average 
Commercial loans held for sale  
$ 9  Appraised value 
Appraised value  
NMNM         Cost to sell  
NM10.0%
Commercial and industrial loans 
  83  
Appraised value 
Default rates  
100%
NM         Collateral value  
NMNM Commercial mortgage loans  
  46  
Appraised value 
Default rates  
100%
NM         Collateral value  
NMNM Commercial construction loans  
  4  Appraised value 
Default rates  
100%
NM         Collateral value  
NMNM MSRs   697  
Discounted cash flow 
Prepayment speed  
0 - 100%
(Fixed) 16.1%
(Adjustable) 26.9%
        Discount rates 
9.4 - 18.0%
(Fixed) 10.5% 
(Adjustable) 11.7%
OREO 
  165  
Appraised value 
Appraised value  
NMNM         Commercial loans held for sale 
During 2013 and 2012, the Bancorp transferred $5 million and $16 

million, respectively, of commercial loans from the portfolio to 

loans held for sale that upon tran
sfer were measured at fair value 
using significant unobservable inputs. These loans had fair value 
adjustments in 2013 and 2012 totaling $4 million and $1 million, 

respectively, and were generally based on appraisals of the 
underlying collateral and were therefor
e, classified within Level 3 of 
the valuation hierarchy. Addition
ally, during 2013 and 2012 there 
were fair value adjustments on ex
isting commercial loans held for 
sale of $3 million and $12 million, respectively. The fair value 

adjustments were also based on 
appraisals of the underlying 
collateral and were therefore cla
ssified within Level 3 of the 
valuation hierarchy.
 An adverse change in the fair value of the 
underlying collateral would result 
in a decrease in the fair value 
measurement. The Accounting 
Department determines the 
procedures for valuation of 
commercial HFS loans which may 
include a comparison to recently executed transactions of similar 

type loans. A monthly review of the portfolio is performed for 

reasonableness. Quarterly, appr
aisals approaching a year old are 
updated and the Real Estate Valuation group, which reports to the 

Chief Risk and Credit Officer, in
 conjunction with the Commercial 
Line of Business review the third party appraisals for 
reasonableness. Additionally, the 
Commercial Line of Business 
Finance Department, which report
s to the Bancorp Chief Financial 
Officer, in conjunction with Accounting review all loan appraisal 

values, carrying values and vintages. 

 
Commercial loans held for investment  

During 2013 and 2012, the Bancorp recorded nonrecurring 

impairment adjustments to cert
ain commercial and industrial, 
commercial mortgage and commercial construction loans held for 
investment. Larger commercial loan
s included within aggregate 
borrower relationship balances ex
ceeding $1 million that exhibit 
probable or observed credit weak
nesses are subject to individual 
review for impairment. The Bancorp considers the current value of 

collateral, credit quality of any guar
antees, the guarantor™s liquidity 
and willingness to cooperate, the loan structure and other factors 

when evaluating whether an indivi
dual loan is impaired. When the 
loan is collateral dependent, the f
air value of the loan is generally 
based on the fair value of the underlying collateral supporting the 

loan and therefore these loans were 
classified within Level 3 of the 
valuation hierarchy. In cases wh
ere the carrying value exceeds the 
fair value, an impairmen
t loss is recognized.  
An adverse change in the fair v
alue of the underlying collateral 
would result in a decrease in th
e fair value measurement. The fair 
values and recognized impairmen
t losses are reflected in the 
previous table. Commercial Credit 
Risk, which reports to the Chief 
Risk and Credit Officer, is respons
ible for preparing and reviewing 
the fair value estimates for commercial loans held for investment.  
MSRs 

Mortgage interest rates increased during the year ended December 
31, 2013 and the Bancorp recogniz
ed a recovery of temporary 
impairment on servicing rights. The Bancorp recognized temporary 

impairments in certain classes of the MSR portfolio during the year 

ended December 31, 2012 and the carrying value was adjusted to 

the fair value. MSRs do not trade in an active, open market with 

readily observable prices. While sales of MSRs do occur, the precise 

terms and conditions typically are not readily available. Accordingly, 

the Bancorp estimates the fair 
value of MSRs using internal 
discounted cash flow models wi
th certain unobservable inputs, 
primarily prepayment speed assumptions, discount rates and 

weighted average lives, resulting in 
a classification within Level 3 of 
the valuation hierarchy. Refer to 
Note 11 for further information on 
the assumptions used in the valu
ation of the Bancorp™s MSRs. The 
Secondary Marketing Department and Treasury Department are 

responsible for determining the valuation methodology for MSRs. 

Representatives from Secondary Ma
rketing, Treasury, Accounting 
and Risk Management are responsible for reviewing key 
assumptions used in the internal 
discounted cash flow model. Two 
external valuations of the MSR por
tfolio are obtained from third 
parties that use valuation models in order to assess the 

reasonableness of the internal di
scounted cash flow model. 
Additionally, the Bancorp participates in peer surveys that provide 

additional confirmation of the re
asonableness of key assumptions 
utilized in the MSR valuation process and the resulting MSR prices. 
 OREO 
During 2013 and 2012, the Bancorp recorded nonrecurring 

adjustments to certain commercial and residential real estate 

properties classified as OREO and measured at the lower of 

carrying amount or fair value. These nonrecurring losses are 

primarily due to declines in real estate values of the properties 

recorded in OREO. For the years ended December 31, 2013 and 
2012, these losses include $19 milli
on and $17 million, respectively, 
recorded as charge-offs, on new OREO properties transferred from 

loans during the respective period
s and $26 million and $57 million, respectively, recorded as negative
 fair value adjustments on OREO 
in other noninterest income subsequent to their transfer from loans. 
As discussed in the following para
graphs, the fair value amounts are 
generally based on appraisals of the property values, resulting in a 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  162  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 classification within Level 3 of th
e valuation hierarchy. In cases 
where the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, less costs to sell, 

an impairment loss is recognized. The 
previous tables reflect the fair 
value measurements of the properties before deducting the 
estimated costs to sell. 
The Real Estate Valuation department, which reports to the 
Chief Risk and Credit Officer, is so
lely responsible for managing the 
appraisal process and evaluating 
the appraisal for all commercial 
properties transferred to OREO. All appraisals on commercial 

OREO properties are updated on at least an annual basis. The Real Estate Valuation department reviews the BPO data 
and internal market information to
 determine the initial charge-off 
on residential real estate loans transferred to OREO. Once the 
foreclosure process is completed, the Bancorp performs an interior 

inspection to update the initial fair value of the property. These 

properties are reviewed at least ever
y 30 days after the initial interior 
inspections are completed. The Asset Manager receives a monthly 

status report for each property which includes the number of 

showings, recently sold properties,
 current comparable listings and 
overall market conditions.  Private equity investment funds 
The Volcker Rule, which was approved by the respective federal 

agencies on December 10, 2013 and becomes effective July 21, 

2015, prohibits the Bancorp from retaining an interest in certain of 

its private equity fund investments. Therefore, while the Bancorp 

has not approved a formal plan to sell any of the private equity 

funds, the Bancorp has determined that it may be forced to sell 
certain of these funds prior to their scheduled redemption dates. As 
a result, the Bancorp has perf
ormed nonrecurring fair value 
measurements on a fund by fund basis to determine whether OTTI 

exists. The Bancorp estimated the fair value of a fund by using the 

net asset value reported by the fund manager, and in some cases, 

applying an estimated market di
scount to the reported net asset 
value of the fund. Because the length of time until the investment 

will become redeemable is generally not certain, these funds were 
classified within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. An adverse 
change in the reported net asse
t values or estimated market 
discounts where applicable, would result in a decrease in the fair 
value estimate. In cases where th
e carrying value exceeds the fair 
value, an impairment loss is r
ecognized. The Bancorp™s private 
equity department, which reports to
 the Chief Operating Officer, in 
conjunction with Accounting, is responsible for preparing and 
reviewing the fair value estimates.  

 Fair Value Option 
The Bancorp elected to measure certain residential mortgage loans 

held for sale under the fair value option as allowed under U.S. 

GAAP. Electing to measure residential mortgage loans held for sale 

at fair value reduces certain timing differences and better matches 
changes in the value of these assets with changes in the value of 
derivatives used as economic hedges for these assets. Management™s 

intent to sell residential mortgage loans classified as held for sale 

may change over time due to such factors as changes in the overall 

liquidity in markets or changes in 
characteristics specific to certain 
loans held for sale. Consequently, these loans may be reclassified to 

loans held for investment and main
tained in the Bancorp™s loan 
portfolio. In such cases, the loan
s will continue to be measured at 
fair value.  
Fair value changes recognized in
 earnings for instruments held 
at December 31, 2013 and 2012 for which the fair value option was 

elected as well as the changes in f
air value of the underlying IRLCs, 
included gains of $20 million and $157 million, respectively. 

Additionally, fair value changes incl
uded in earnings for instruments 
for which the fair value option was 
elected but are no longer held by 
the Bancorp at December 31, 2013 and 2012 included gains of $451 
million and $849 million during 2013 and 2012, respectively. These 
gains are reported in mortgage banking net revenue in the 

Consolidated Statements of Income.  
Valuation adjustments related to 
instrument-specific credit risk 
for residential mortgage loans measured at fair value negatively 

impacted the fair value of those loans by $2 million and $3 million 

at December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Interest on residential 

mortgage loans measured at fair value 
is accrued as it is earned using 
the effective interest method and is reported as interest income in 
the Consolidated Statements of Income.
  The following table summarizes the difference between the fair 
value and the principal balance for residential mortgage loans m
easured at fair 
value as of:              Aggregate 
Aggregate Unpaid 
   ($ in millions) 
 Fair Value 
Principal Balance 
 Difference December 31, 2013
  Residential mortgage loans measured at fair value 
$ 982 
 962 
 20 
Past due loans of 90 days or more
   1 
 2 
 (1)
Nonaccrual loans
   2 
 2 
 - 
   December 31, 2012 
 Residential mortgage loans measured at fair value 
$ 2,932 
 2,775 
 157 
Past due loans of 90 days or more 
  3 
 4 
 (1)
Nonaccrual loans 
  - 
 1 
 (1)
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 163  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Fair Value of Certain Financial Instruments
   The following tables summarize the carryin
g amounts and estimated fair values for 
certain financial instruments, excluding fina
ncial instruments 
measured at fair value on a recurring basis:        Net Carrying 
Fair Value Measurements Using  
Total  
As of December 31, 2013 ($ in millions)
  Amount 
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
Fair Value 
Financial assets: 
    Cash and due from banks
 $ 3,178
 3,178 
 - 
 - 
 3,178
   Other securities
   751
 - 
 751 
 - 
 751
   Held-to-maturity securities
   208
 - 
 - 
 208 
 208
   Other short-term investments
   5,116
 5,116 
 - 
 - 
 5,116
   Loans held for sale
   54
 - 
 - 
 54 
 54
   Portfolio loans and leases:
        Commercial and industrial loans
   38,549
 - 
 - 
 39,804 
 39,804
      Commercial mortgage loans
   7,854
 - 
 - 
 7,430 
 7,430
      Commercial construction loans
   1,013
 - 
 - 
 856 
 856
      Commercial leases
   3,572
 - 
 - 
 3,261 
 3,261
      Residential mortgage loans
(a)    12,399
 - 
 - 
 11,541 
 11,541
      Home equity
   9,152
 - 
 - 
 9,181 
 9,181
      Automobile loans
   11,961
 - 
 - 
 11,748 
 11,748
      Credit card
   2,202
 - 
 - 
 2,380 
 2,380
      Other consumer loans and leases
   348
 - 
 - 
 361 
 361
      Unallocated allowance for loan and lease losses
   (110)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -   Total portfolio loans and leases, net
(a)    86,940
 - 
 - 
 86,562 
 86,562
Financial liabilities:
     Deposits
   99,275
 - 
 99,288 
 - 
 99,288
   Federal funds purchased
   284
 284 
 - 
 - 
 284
   Other short-term borrowings
   1,380
 - 
 1,380 
 - 
 1,380
   Long-term debt
   9,633
 9,645 
 577 
 - 
 10,222
(a) Excludes $92 
of residential mortgage loans measured at fair value on a recurring basis. 
     Net Carrying 
Fair Value Measurements Using 
Total 
As of December 31, 2012
 ($ in millions) 
 Amount 
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
Fair Value 
Financial assets: 
    Cash and due from banks
 $ 2,441
 2,441 
 - 
 - 
 2,441
   Other securities 
  844
 - 
 844 
 - 
 844
   Held-to-maturity securities 
  284
 - 
 - 
 284 
 284
   Other short-term investments 
  2,421
 2,421 
 - 
 - 
 2,421
   Loans held for sale 
  83
 - 
 - 
 83 
 83
   Portfolio loans and leases: 
       Commercial and industrial loans 
  35,236
 - 
 - 
 36,496 
 36,496
      Commercial mortgage loans 
  8,770
 - 
 - 
 8,020 
 8,020
      Commercial construction loans 
  665
 - 
 - 
 505 
 505
      Commercial leases 
  3,481
 - 
 - 
 3,310 
 3,310
      Residential mortgage loans
(a)    11,712
 - 
 - 
 11,532 
 11,532
      Home equity 
  9,875
 - 
 - 
 9,798 
 9,798
      Automobile loans 
  11,944
 - 
 - 
 12,076 
 12,076
      Credit card 
  2,010
 - 
 - 
 2,139 
 2,139
      Other consumer loans and leases 
  270
 - 
 - 
 288 
 288
      Unallocated allowance for loan and lease losses 
  (111)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -   Total portfolio loans and leases, net
(a)    83,852
 - 
 - 
 84,164 
 84,164
Financial liabilities: 
    Deposits 
  89,517
 - 
 85,592 
 - 
 85,592
   Federal funds purchased 
  901
 901 
 - 
 - 
 901
   Other short-term borrowings 
  6,280
 - 
 6,280 
 - 
 6,280
   Long-term debt 
  7,085
 6,925 
 884 
 - 
 7,809
(a) Excludes $76 of residential mortgage loans measured at fair value on a recurring basis. 
  Cash and due from banks, other securit
ies, other short-term investments, 
deposits, federal funds purchased and other short-term borrowings 

For financial instruments with a short-term or no stated maturity, 
prevailing market rates and limited credit risk, carrying amounts 
approximate fair value. Those fina
ncial instruments include cash and 
due from banks, FHLB and FRB restricted stock, other short-term 
investments, certain deposits (demand, interest checking, savings, 
money market and foreign office deposits), and federal funds 

purchased. Fair values for other time deposits, certificates of deposit 
$100,000 and over and other short-term borrowings were estimated 
using a discounted cash flow calculation that applied prevailing 

LIBOR/swap interest rates for the same maturities. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  164  Fifth Third Bancorp 
   
Held-to-maturity securities 

The Bancorp™s held-to-maturity secu
rities are primarily composed of 
instruments that provide income tax credits as the economic return 
on the investment. The fair value of these instruments is estimated 

based on current U.S. Treasury tax credit rates. 

 
Loans held for sale 

Fair values for commercial loans held for sale were valued based on 

executable bids when available, or on
 discounted cash flow models 
incorporating appraisals of the un
derlying collateral, as well as 
assumptions about investor return requirements and amounts and 
timing of expected cash flows. F
air values for other consumer loans 
held for sale are based on contractual values upon which the loans 

may be sold to a third party, and approximate their carrying value. 
 
Portfolio loans and leases, net 

Fair values were estimated by di
scounting future cash flows using 
the current market rates of loans to borrowers with similar credit 
characteristics and similar remaining maturities.  
Long-term debt 
Fair values for long-term debt we
re based on quoted market prices, 
when available, or a discounted cash flow calculation using 

LIBOR/swap interest rates and, in some cases, a spread for new 

issuances with similar terms. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 165  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 28. CERTAIN REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS AND CAPITAL RATIOS The principal source of income and funds for the Bancorp (parent 
company) are dividends from its subsidiaries. The dividends paid by 
the Bancorp™s banking subsidiary 
are subject to regulations and 
limitations prescribed by the appropriate state and federal 

supervisory authorities. The Bancorp™s nonbank subsidiaries are also 

limited by certain federal and state statutory provisions and 

regulations covering the amount of
 dividends that may be paid in 
any given year. The Bancorp™s banking subsidiary must maintain cash reserve 
balances when total reservable depos
it liabilities are greater than the 
regulatory exemption. These reserv
e requirements may be satisfied 
with vault cash and balances on de
posit with the FRB. In 2013 and 
2012, the banking subsidiary was required to maintain average cash 

reserve balances of $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued 
capital adequacy guidelines pursuant to which it assesses the 

adequacy of capital in examining and supervising a bank holding 
company and in analyzing applicati
ons to it under the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956, as amende
d. These guidelines include 
quantitative measures that assign ri
sk weightings to assets and off-
balance sheet items, as well as define and set minimum regulatory 

capital requirements. All bank holding companies are required to 

maintain Tier I capital (core capital) of at least four percent of risk-

weighted assets (Tier I capital ratio), total capital (Tier I plus Tier II 

capital) of at least eight percent of risk-weighted assets (Total risk-
based capital ratio), and Tier I capital of at least three percent of 
adjusted quarterly average assets (Tier I leverage ratio). Failure to 

meet the minimum capital requiremen
ts can initiate certain actions 
by regulators that could have a direct material effect on the 

Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bancorp.   
Tier I capital consists princi
pally of shareholders™ equity 
including Tier I qualifying TruPS. 
It excludes unrealized gains and 
losses on available-for-sale securiti
es and unrecognized pension 
actuarial gains and losses and prior service cost, goodwill, certain 
other intangibles and unrealized gains and losses on cash flow 

hedges. The revised regulatory capital rules known as Basel III will 

phase out the inclusion of certain TruPS as a component of Tier I 

capital when the rules become effective for the Bancorp beginning 

January 1, 2015. Under these prov
isions, these TruPS would qualify 
as a component of Tier II capital. At December 31, 2013, the 
Bancorp™s Tier I capital included $60 million of TruPS representing 
approximately 5 bps of risk-weighted assets. 
Tier II capital consists principally of term subordinated debt, 
redeemable preferred stock and, subject to limitations, allowances 

for credit losses.  
Assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-balance-sheet 
items are assigned to one of several broad risk categories, according 

to the obligor, guarantor or nature
 of collateral. The aggregate dollar 
value of the amount of each category
 is multiplied by the associated 
risk weighting of that category. Th
e resulting weighted values from 
each of the risk categories in su
m is the total risk-weighted assets. 
Quarterly average assets for this
 purpose do not include goodwill 
and any other intangible assets an
d other investments that the FRB 
determines should be deducted from Tier I capital.   
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued 
capital adequacy guidelines for banking subsidiaries substantially 
similar to those adopted for bank holding companies, as described 
previously. In addition, the feder
al banking agencies have issued 
substantially similar regulations to implement the system of prompt 

corrective action established by Section 38 of the Federal Deposit 

Insurance Act. Under the regulations, a bank generally shall be 

deemed to be well-capitalized if it has a Total risk-based capital ratio 

of 10% or more, a Tier I capital ratio of six percent or more, a Tier 

I leverage ratio of five percent or more and is not subject to any 
written capital order or directive. If an institution becomes 
undercapitalized, it would become subject to significant additional 

oversight, regulations and requirements as mandated by the Federal 

Deposit Insurance Act.  
The Bancorp and its banking subsidiary, Fifth Third Bank, had 
Tier I capital, Total risk-based capital and Tier I leverage ratios 

above the well-capitalized levels at December 31, 2013 and 2012. As 

of December 31, 2013, the most recent notification from the FRB 
categorized the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary as well-
capitalized under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective 

action. To continue to qualify for financial holding company status 

pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, the Bancorp™s 

banking subsidiary must, among other things, maintain ﬁwell-

capitalizedﬂ capital ratios. 
 The following table presents capital and risk-based capital and 
leverage ratios for the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary at D
ecember 31:       2013 
  2012 
  ($ in millions) 
 Amount  Ratio  Amount
Ratio 
Tier I risk-based capital (to risk-weighted assets): 
             Fifth Third Bancorp (Consolidated) 
$12,094  10.36% 
$11,685 
 10.65% 
     Fifth Third Bank 
 13,245  11.52   12,145 
 11.28  
Total risk-based capital (to risk-weighted assets): 
               Fifth Third Bancorp (Consolidated) 
 16,441  14.08   15,816 
 14.42  
     Fifth Third Bank 
 14,795  12.86   13,721 
 12.74  
Tier I leverage (to average assets): 
               Fifth Third Bancorp (Consolidated) 
 12,094  9.64  
 11,685 
 10.05  
     Fifth Third Bank 
 13,245  10.73   12,145 
 10.65  
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  166  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 29. PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 Condensed Statements of Income (Parent Company Only)
              For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
 2013 
 2012 
 2011  
Income              Dividends from subsidiaries: 
               Consolidated bank subsidiaries
(a)   $ - 
   - 
   - 
    Consolidated nonbank subsidiary 
 859 
  1,959 
  1,677 
  Interest on loans to subsidiaries 
 14   17 
  29 
  Total income 
 873 
  1,976 
  1,706 
                   Expenses
              Interest 
 178   215 
  216 
  Other  36 
  61 
  25 
  Total expenses 
 214 
  276 
  241 
                   Income Before Income Taxes and Change in Undistributed
                Earnings of Subsidiaries
  659 
  1,700 
  1,465 
  Applicable income tax benefit 
 74 
  96 
  79 
  Income Before Change in Undist
ributed Earnings of Subsidiaries
  733 
  1,796 
  1,544 
  Change in undistributed earnings 
 1,103   (220)
  (247)
  Net Income
  $1,836 
  1,576 
  1,297 
  (a)  The Bancorp™s indirect banking subsidiary paid dividends to
 the Bancorp™s direct nonbank subsidiary holding company of 
$859 million
, $2.0 billion and $2.0 billion for the years ended 
2013
, 2012, and 2011, respectively. 
 Condensed Statements of Comprehensive Income (Parent Company Only)
   For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
   2013 
2012 
2011 
Net income 
 $1,836 
  1,576 
  1,297 
  Other comprehensive income, net of tax: 
               Unrealized gains on cash flow hedge derivatives 
  - 
  3   2   Other comprehensive income 
  - 
  3   2   Comprehensive income attributable to Parent 
 $1,836 
  1,579 
  1,299 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 167  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  Condensed Balance Sheets (Parent Company Only)
          As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
 2013 
 2012 
 Assets          Cash 
 $ - 
   - 
  Short-term investments 
 2,505 
  3,481 
  Loans to subsidiaries: 
           Bank subsidiaries 
  - 
   - 
    Nonbank subsidiaries 
 974 
  1,021 
  Total loans to subsidiaries 
 974 
  1,021 
  Investment in subsidiaries 
           Nonbank subsidiaries 
 16,254   15,376 
  Total investment in subsidiaries 
 16,254   15,376 
  Goodwill 
 80 
  80 
  Other assets 
 323 
  579 
  Total Assets
  $20,136 
  20,537 
  Liabilities          Other short-term borrowings 
 311   566 
  Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
 442 
  456 
  Long-term debt (external) 
 4,757 
  5,751 
  Total Liabilities
  5,510 
  6,773 
  Parent Company Shareholders' Equity
  14,626   13,764 
  Total Liabilities and Parent Company Shareholders' Equity
  $20,136 
  20,537 
   Condensed Statements of Cash Flows (Parent Company Only)
             For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
 2013 
 2012 
 2011  
Operating Activities
              Net income 
 $1,836 
  1,576 
  1,297 
  Adjustments to reconcile net income to net 
cash provided by operating activities: 
               (Benefit from) provision for deferred income taxes 
 (1)  2   (3)
    Net change in undistributed earnings 
 (1,103)  220 
  247 
  Net change in: 
               Other assets 
 13   57 
  39 
    Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
 (28)  18 
  3   Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
  717 
  1,873 
  1,583 
  Investing Activities
              Net change in: 
               Short-term investments 
 976 
  107 
  (635)
    Loans to subsidiaries 
 47 
  11 
  489 
  Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities
  1,023 
  118 
  (146)
  Financing Activities
              Net change in other short-term borrowings 
 (255)  (89)
  241 
  Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 
 750 
  500 
  1,000 
  Repayment of long-term debt 
 (1,500)  (1,440)
  (400)
  Dividends paid on common shares 
 (393)  (309)
  (192)
  Dividends paid on preferred shares 
 (37)  (35)
  (50)
  Issuance of common shares 
 -   -   1,648 
  Issuance of preferred stock 
 1,034 
  -   -   Repurchases of treasury shares and related forward contracts 
 (1,320)  (650)
  -   Redemption of Series F preferred shares and related warrants 
 -   -   (3,688)
  Other, net 
 (19)  (18)
  (6)
  Net Cash Used in Financing Activities
  (1,740)  (2,041)
  (1,447)
  Net (Decrease) Increase in Cash
  -   (50)
  (10)
  Cash at Beginning of Year
  -   50 
  60 
  Cash at End of Year
  $-   -   50 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  168  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 30. BUSINESS SEGMENTS 
The Bancorp reports on four business segments: Commercial 
Banking, Branch Banking, C
onsumer Lending and Investment 
Advisors. Results of the Bancorp™s business segments are presented 
based on its management structure and management accounting 

practices. The structure and accounti
ng practices are specific to the 
Bancorp; therefore, the financial results of the Bancorp™s business 

segments are not necessarily comp
arable with similar information 
for other financial institutions. The Bancorp refines its 

methodologies from time to time as management™s accounting 

practices are improved and businesses change. 
The Bancorp manages interest rate risk centrally at the 
corporate level by employing an FTP methodology. This 

methodology insulates the business segments from interest rate 

volatility, enabling them to focus 
on serving customers through loan 
originations and deposit taking
. The FTP system assigns charge 
rates and credit rates to classes of assets and liabilities, respectively, 

based on expected duration and the U.S. swap curve. Matching 

duration allocates interest income and interest expense to each 
segment so its resulting net interest income is insulated from 
interest rate risk. In a rising rate
 environment, the Bancorp benefits 
from the widening spread between deposit costs and wholesale 

funding costs. However, the Bancorp™s FTP system credits this 

benefit to deposit-providing businesses, such as Branch Banking 

and Investment Advisors, on a duration-adjusted basis. The net 

impact of the FTP methodology is captured in General Corporate 

and Other. The Bancorp adjusts the FTP charge and credit rates as 
dictated by changes in interest rates for various interest-earning 

assets and interest-bearing liabilities and by the review of the 

estimated durations for the indeterm
inate-lived deposits. The credit 
rate provided for demand deposit accounts is reviewed annually 

based upon the account type, its estimated duration and the 

corresponding fed funds, U.S. swap curve or swap rate. The credit 

rates for several deposit products were reset January 1, 2013 to 
reflect the current market rates 
and updated market assumptions. 
These rates were generally higher 
than those in place during 2012, 
thus net interest income for deposit providing businesses was 

positively impacted during 2013  The business segments are charged provision expense based on 
the actual net charge-offs experi
enced by the loans and leases 
owned by each segment. Provision expense attributable to loan and 

leases  growth and changes in AL
LL factors are captured in General 
Corporate and Other. The financial 
results of the business segments 
include allocations for shared serv
ices and headquarters expenses. 
Even with these allocations, the financial results are not necessarily 

indicative of the business segments™ financial condition and results 

of operations as if they existed as
 independent entities. Additionally, 
the business segments form synergies by taking advantage of cross-

sell opportunities and when funding operations, by accessing the 

capital markets as a collective unit.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 169  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  Results of operations and assets by segment for each of the three years ended December 31 are:
                            General 
       Commercial
Branch Consumer 
Investment  
Corporate 
    2013 ($ in millions)
  Banking 
Banking 
Lending 
Advisors and Other 
Eliminations
Total 
Net interest income  
$ 1,487 
 1,461 
 312 
 154 
 147 
 - 
 3,561
Provision for loan and lease losses
   187 
 217 
 92 
 2 
 (269)
 - 
 229
Net interest income after provision for loan 
      and lease losses
   1,300 
 1,244 
 220 
 152 
 416 
 - 
 3,332
Noninterest income:      Mortgage banking net revenue
   - 
 12 
 687 
 1 
 - 
 - 
 700
    Service charges on deposits
   242 
 304 
 - 
 3 
 - 
 - 
 549
    Corporate banking revenue
   386 
 13 
 - 
 3 
 (2)
 - 
 400
    Investment advisory revenue
   5 
 148 
 - 
 384 
 - 
 (144)
(a) 
 393
    Card and processing revenue
   52 
 291 
 - 
 5 
 (76)
 - 
 272
    Other noninterest income
   95 
 86 
 45 
 10 
 643 
 - 
 879
    Securities gains, net
   - 
 - 
 3 
 - 
 18 
 - 
 21    Securities gains, net - non-qualifying hedges on        
        mortgage servicing rights
   - 
 - 
 13 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 13
Total noninterest income
   780 
 854 
 748 
 406 
 583 
 (144)
 3,227
Noninterest expense:      Salaries, wages and incentives
   233 
 457 
 175 
 134 
 582 
 - 
 1,581
    Employee benefits
   40 
 127 
 40 
 25 
 125 
 - 
 357
    Net occupancy expense
   23 
 185 
 8 
 10 
 81 
 - 
 307
    Technology and communications
   11 
 4 
 1 
 - 
 188 
 - 
 204
    Card and processing expense
   7 
 126 
 - 
 - 
 1 
 - 
 134
    Equipment expense
   4 
 58 
 1 
 - 
 51 
 - 
 114
    Other noninterest expense
   825 
 748 
 460 
 284 
 (909)
 (144)
 1,264
Total noninterest expense
   1,143 
 1,705 
 685 
 453 
 119 
 (144)
 3,961
Income before income taxes    937 
 393 
 283 
 105 
 880 
 - 
 2,598
Applicable income tax expense
   171 
 138 
 100 
 37 
 326 
 - 
 772
Net income
   766 
 255 
 183 
 68 
 554 
 - 
 1,826
Less: Net income attributab
le to noncontrolling interests
   - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (10)
 - 
 (10)
Net income attributable to Bancorp
   766 
 255 
 183 
 68 
 564 
 - 
 1,836
Dividends on preferred stock 
   - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 37 
 - 
 37
Net income available to common shareholders 
 $ 766 
 255 
 183 
 68 
 527 
 - 
 1,799
Total goodwill
 $ 613 
 1,655 
 - 
 148 
 - 
 - 
 2,416
Total assets
 $ 52,287 
 50,038 
 22,610 
 10,711 
 (5,203)
 - 
 130,443
(a) Revenue sharing agreements between Investment Advisors and Branch
 Banking are eliminated in the Consolidated Statements of Inco
me. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  170  Fifth Third Bancorp 
                              General 
       Commercial
Branch Consumer 
Investment  
Corporate 
    2012 ($ in millions) 
 Banking 
Banking 
Lending 
Advisors and Other 
Eliminations
Total 
Net interest income  
$ 1,432 
 1,362 
 314 
 117 
 370 
 - 
 3,595 
Provision for loan and lease losses 
  223 
 294 
 176 
 10 
 (400)
 - 
 303 
Net interest income after provision for loan  
     and lease losses 
  1,209 
 1,068 
 138 
 107 
 770 
 - 
 3,292 
Noninterest income:      Mortgage banking net revenue 
  - 
 14 
 830 
 1 
 - 
 - 
 845 
    Service charges on deposits 
  225 
 294 
 - 
 3 
 - 
 - 
 522 
    Corporate banking revenue 
  395 
 15 
 - 
 3 
 - 
 - 
 413 
    Investment advisory revenue 
  6 
 129 
 - 
 366 
 - 
 (127)
(a)  374 
    Card and processing revenue 
  46 
 279 
 - 
 4 
 (76)
 - 
 253 
    Other noninterest income 
  65 
 81 
 42 
 19 
 367 
 - 
 574 
    Securities gains, net 
  - 
 - 
 1 
 - 
 14 
 - 
 15 
    Securities gains, net - non-qualifying hedges on 
        mortgage servicing rights 
  - 
 - 
 3 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3 
Total noninterest income 
  737 
 812 
 876 
 396 
 305 
 (127)
 2,999 
Noninterest expense:      Salaries, wages and incentives 
  229 
 448 
 192 
 136 
 602 
 - 
 1,607 
    Employee benefits 
  39 
 125 
 39 
 25 
 143 
 - 
 371 
    Net occupancy expense 
  21 
 187 
 8 
 11 
 75 
 - 
 302 
    Technology and communications 
  10 
 3 
 1 
 - 
 182 
 - 
 196 
    Card and processing expense 
  5 
 115 
 - 
 - 
 1 
 - 
 121 
    Equipment expense 
  2 
 54 
 1 
 1 
 52 
 - 
 110 
    Other noninterest expense 
  800 
 660 
 429 
 264 
 (652)
 (127)
 1,374 
Total noninterest expense 
  1,106 
 1,592 
 670 
 437 
 403 
 (127)
 4,081 
Income before income taxes  
  840 
 288 
 344 
 66 
 672 
 - 
 2,210 
Applicable income tax expense  
  146 
 102 
 121 
 23 
 244 
 - 
 636 
Net income 
  694 
 186 
 223 
 43 
 428 
 - 
 1,574 
Less: Net income attributab
le to noncontrolling interests 
  - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (2)
 - 
 (2)
Net income attributable to Bancorp 
  694 
 186 
 223 
 43 
 430 
 - 
 1,576 
Dividends on preferred stock  
  - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 35 
 - 
 35 
Net income available to common shareholders  
$ 694 
 186 
 223 
 43 
 395 
 - 
 1,541 
Total goodwill 
$ 613 
 1,655 
 - 
 148 
 - 
 - 
 2,416 
Total assets 
$ 48,693 
 48,856 
 24,657 
 9,212 
 (9,524)
 - 
 121,894 
(a) Revenue sharing agreements between Investment Advisors and Branch
 Banking are eliminated in the Consolidated Statements of Inco
me.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 171  Fifth Third Bancorp 
                             General 
       Commercial
Branch  
Consumer 
Investment  
Corporate 
    2011 ($ in millions) 
 Banking 
Banking 
Lending 
Advisors and Other 
Eliminations
Total 
Net interest income 
$ 1,357 
 1,423 
 343 
 113 
 321 
 - 3,557 
Provision for loan and lease losses 
  490 
 393 
 261 
 27 
 (748)
 - 423 
Net interest income after provision for loan  
     and lease losses 
  867 
 1,030 
 82 
 86 
 1,069 
 - 3,134 
Noninterest income:      Mortgage banking net revenue 
  - 
 11 
 585 
 1 
 - 
 - 597 
    Service charges on deposits 
  207 
 309 
 - 
 4 
 - 
 - 520 
    Corporate banking revenue 
  332 
 14 
 - 
 3 
 1 
 - 350 
    Investment advisory revenue 
  12 
 117 
 - 
 364 
 (1)
 (117)
(a) 375 
    Card and processing revenue 
  38 
 305 
 - 
 4 
 (39)
 - 308 
    Other noninterest income 
  52 
 81 
 36 
 (3)
 84 
 - 250 
    Securities gains, net 
  - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 46 
 - 46 
    Securities gains, net - non-qualifying hedges on  
         mortgage servicing rights 
  - 
 - 
 9 
 - 
 - 
 - 9 
Total noninterest income 
  641 
 837 
 630 
 373 
 91 
 (117)
 2,455 
Noninterest expense:      Salaries, wages and incentives 
  203 
 454 
 149 
 138 
 534 
 - 1,478 
    Employee benefits 
  37 
 127 
 34 
 26 
 106 
 - 330 
    Net occupancy expense 
  20 
 184 
 8 
 11 
 82 
 - 305 
    Technology and communications 
  11 
 5 
 1 
 1 
 170 
 - 188 
    Card and processing expense 
  5 
 114 
 - 
 - 
 1 
 - 120 
    Equipment expense 
  2 
 51 
 1 
 1 
 58 
 - 113 
    Other noninterest expense 
  795 
 640 
 433 
 244 
 (771)
 (117)
 1,224 
Total noninterest expense 
  1,073 
 1,575 
 626 
 421 
 180 
 (117)
 3,758 
Income before income taxes  
  435 
 292 
 86 
 38 
 980 
 - 1,831 
Applicable income tax expense (benefit)  
  (6)
 102 
 30 
 14 
 393 
 - 533 
Net income 
  441 
 190 
 56 
 24 
 587 
 - 1,298 
Less: Net income attributab
le to noncontrolling interests 
  - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1 
 - 1 
Net income attributable to Bancorp 
  441 
 190 
 56 
 24 
 586 
 - 1,297 
Dividends on preferred stock  
  - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 203 
 - 203 
Net income available to common shareholders  
$ 441 
 190 
 56 
 24 
 383 
 - 1,094 
Total goodwill 
$ 613 
 1,656 
 - 
 148 
 - 
 - 2,417 
Total assets 
$ 45,864 
 46,703 
 24,325 
 7,670 
 (7,595)
 - 116,967 
(a) Revenue sharing agreements between Investment Advisors and Branch
 Banking are eliminated in the Consolidated Statements of Inco
me. 
31. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 
On February 20, 2014, the Bancorp transferred approximately $1.3 
billion in fixed-rate consumer automobile loans to a bankruptcy 

remote trust which was deemed to be a VIE. The primary purposes 
for which the VIE was created were to issue asset-backed securities 
with varying levels of credit subordination and payment priority, as 

well as residual interests, and to provide the Bancorp with access to 

liquidity for its originated loans. The Bancorp retained residual 

interests in the VIE and, therefore, has an obligation to absorb 

losses and a right to receive bene
fits from the VIE that could 
potentially be significant to the VIE. In addition, the Bancorp 

retained servicing rights for the 
underlying loans and, therefore, 
holds the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most 
significantly impact the economic performance of the VIE. As a 

result, the Bancorp concluded that it is the primary beneficiary of 

the VIE and, therefore, will conso
lidate this VIE in the Bancorp™s 
first quarter of 2014 Form 10-Q. The assets of the VIE are 

restricted to the settlement of the notes and other obligations of the 

VIE. Third-party holders of the notes do not have recourse to the 

general assets of the Bancorp. 
  
 On January 28, 2014, the Bancorp entered into an accelerated 
share repurchase transaction with a counterparty pursuant to which 

the Bancorp purchased 3,950,705 shares, or approximately $99 
million, of its outstanding common stock on January 31, 2014. The 
Bancorp repurchased the shares of its common stock as part of its 

Board approved 100 million share repurchase program previously 

announced on March 19, 2013. The Bancorp expects the settlement 

of the transaction to occur on or before March 26, 2014. 
` 172  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 UNITED STATES
 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 Washington, D.C. 20549
 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 
15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
 EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2013
 Commission file number 001-33653
  Incorporated in the State of Ohio 
 I.R.S. Employer Identification No. 31-0854434 
 Address: 38 Fountain Square Plaza
 Cincinnati, Ohio 45263 
 Telephone: (800) 972-3030  
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
   Title of each class:   Name of each exchange 
on which registered: 
Common Stock, Without Par Value   
The NASDAQ Stock Market 
LLC 
Depositary Shares Representing a 
1/1000th Ownership Interest in a 
Share of 6.625% Fixed-to-
Floating Rate Non-Cumulative 
Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 
I   
The NASDAQ Stock Market 
LLC 
Indicate by checkmark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned 
issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  
Yes:  No:  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file 
reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes: 
 No:   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all 
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the 

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months 

(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file 

such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements 

for the past 90 days. Yes: 
 No: 
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted 
electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every 

Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant 
to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during 
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 

registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes: 
 No:   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant 
to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not 

contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of 

registrant™s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information 

statements incorporated by referen
ce in Part III of this Form 10-K 
or any amendment to this Form 10-K. 
   
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large 

accelerated filer, an accelerated file
r, a non-accelerated filer, or a 
smaller reporting company. See definitions of ﬁlarge accelerated 
filer,ﬂ ﬁaccelerated filerﬂ and ﬁsmaller reporting companyﬂ in 
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.  

Large accelerated filer 
 Accelerated filer 
 Non-accelerated 
filer  (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) Smaller 
reporting company 
   
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company 
(as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes:  No:   There were 851,455,370 shares of the Bancorp™s Common Stock, 
without par value, outstanding as of January 31, 2014. The 
Aggregate Market Value of the Voting Stock held by non-
affiliates of the Bancorp was $15,298,734,875 as of June 30, 

2013.  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
 This report incorporates into a single document the requirements 
of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with 

respect to annual reports on Form 10-K and annual reports to 

shareholders. The Bancorp™s Proxy Statement for the 2014 

Annual Meeting of Shareholders is incorporated by reference into 

Part III of this report.  
Only those sections of this 2013 Annual Report to Shareholders 
that are specified in this Cross Reference Index constitute part of 

the Registrant™s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 

2013. No other information contained in this 2013 Annual Report 

to Shareholders shall be deemed to constitute any part of this 

Form 10-K nor shall any such information be incorporated into 

the Form 10-K and shall not be deemed ﬁfiledﬂ as part of the 
Registrant™s Form 10-K.  
10-K Cross Reference Index 
 PART I
 Item 1.
 Business   16-20, 173-179  
  Employees   41  
  Segment Information   43-49, 168-171 
  Average Balance Sheets   37  

  Analysis of Net Interest Income and Net Interest 
Income Changes   36-49  
  Investment Securities Portfolio   54-55, 102-103  
  Loan and Lease Portfolio   53-54, 104-105  

  Risk Elements of Loan and Lease Portfolio   58-75  
  Deposits   55-57  
  Return on Equity and Assets   15  

  Short-term Borrowings   57, 128  
Item 1A.
 Risk Factors   27-35  
Item 1B.
 Unresolved Staff Comments   None  
Item 2.
 Properties   180  
Item 3.
 Legal Proceedings   135-136  
Item 4.
 Mine Safety Disclosures     N/A  
  Executive Officers of the Bancorp   180  
PART II
 Item 5.
  Market for Registrant™s Common Equity, Related 
Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity 
Securities   181  
Item 6.
 Selected Financial Data   15  
Item 7.
  Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations   15-85  
Item 7A.
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market 
Risk   75-78  
Item 8.
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   88-171  
Item 9.
  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on 
Accounting and Financial Disclosure   None  
Item 9A.
 Controls and Procedures   86  
Item 9B.
 Other Information   None  
PART III
 Item 10.
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate 
Governance   183  
Item 11.
 Executive Compensation   183  
Item 12.
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and 
Management and Related Stockholder Matters   149-152, 183  
Item 13.
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and 
Director Independence   183  
Item 14.
 Principal Accounting Fees and Services   183  
  173  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 PART IV
   Item 15.
  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules     183-185  
SIGNATURES
     186  
 AVAILABILITY OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION 
 Fifth Third Bancorp (the ﬁBancorpﬂ) files reports with the SEC. 
Those reports include the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly 

reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and proxy 

statements, as well as any amendments to those reports. The 

public may read and copy any materials the Bancorp files with the 

SEC at the SEC™s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, 

NW, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information 

on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the 

SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that 

contains reports, proxy and information statements and other 

information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC 

at www.sec.gov. The Bancorp™s 
annual report on Form 10-K, 
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, 
proxy statements, and amendments to those reports filed or 

furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act 

are accessible at no cost on the Bancorp™s web site at 

www.53.com on a same day basis after they are electronically 

filed with or furnished to the SEC.  
    
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
 PART I 
 ITEM 1.
BUSINESS 
General Information 
 The Bancorp, an Ohio corporation organized in 1975, is a bank 
holding company as defined by the Bank Holding Company Act 

of 1956, as amended (the ﬁBHCAﬂ), and is registered as such 

with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the 

ﬁFRBﬂ). The Bancorp™s principal office is located in Cincinnati, 

Ohio.  The Bancorp™s subsidiaries provide a wide range of financial 
products and services to the retail, commercial, financial, 

governmental, educational and medical sectors, including a wide 

variety of checking, savings and money market accounts, and 

credit products such as credit cards, installment loans, mortgage 

loans and leases. Fifth Third Bank has deposit insurance provided 

by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the ﬁFDICﬂ) 

through the Deposit Insurance Fund. Refer to Exhibit 21 filed as 
an attachment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a list of 
subsidiaries of the Bancorp as of December 31, 2013.  
The Bancorp derives the majority of its revenues from the 
U.S. Revenue from foreign countries and external customers 

domiciled in foreign countries is immaterial to the Bancorp™s 

Consolidated Financial Statements.  
Additional information regarding the Bancorp™s businesses is 
included in Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 

Condition and Results of Operations.  
Competition  The Bancorp competes for deposits, loans and other banking 
services in its principal geographic markets as well as in selected 

national markets as opportunities arise. In addition to the 

challenge of attracting and retaining customers for traditional 
banking services, the Bancorp™s competitors include securities 
dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and 

insurance companies. These competitors, with focused products 

targeted at highly profitable customer segments, compete across 

geographic boundaries and provide customers increasing access 

to meaningful alternatives to banking services in nearly all 

significant products. The increasingly competitive environment is 

a result primarily of changes in regulation, changes in technology, 

product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of 

consolidation among financial service providers. These 

competitive trends are likely to continue.  
Acquisitions 
 The Bancorp™s strategy for growth includes strengthening its 
presence in core markets, expanding into contiguous markets and 

broadening its product offerings while taking into account the 
integration and other risks of growth. The Bancorp evaluates 
strategic acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence 

activities in connection with possi
ble transactions. As a result, 
discussions, and in some cases, negotiations may take place and 

future acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may 

occur. These typically involve the payment of a premium over 

book value and current market price, and therefore, some dilution 

of book value and net income per share may occur with any 

future transactions.  
Regulation and Supervision 
 In addition to the generally applicable state and federal laws 
governing businesses and employers, the Bancorp and its banking 

subsidiary are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state 

laws and regulations applicable to financial institutions and their 

parent companies. Virtually all aspects of the business of the 
Bancorp and its banking subsidiary are subject to specific 
requirements or restrictions and general regulatory oversight. The 
` 174  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 principal objectives of state and federal banking laws and 
regulations and the supervision, regulation and examination of 

banks and their parent companies (such as the Bancorp) by bank 

regulatory agencies are the maintenance of the safety and 

soundness of financial institutions, maintenance of the federal 

deposit insurance system and the protection of consumers or 

classes of consumers, rather than the specific protection of 
shareholders of a bank or the parent company of a bank. To the 
extent the following material describes statutory or regulatory 

provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the 

particular statute or regulation.  

 
Regulators  
The Bancorp and/or its banking subsidiary are subject to 

regulation and supervision primarily by the FRB, the Consumer 

Financial Protection Bureau (the ﬁCFPBﬂ) and the Ohio Division 

of Financial Institutions (the ﬁDivisionﬂ) and additionally by 

certain other functional regulators and self-regulatory 

organizations.   The Bancorp is also subject to regulation by the 

SEC by virtue of its status as a public company and due to the 

nature of some of its businesses.  The Bancorp™s banking 

subsidiary is subject to regulation by the FDIC, which insures the 
bank™s deposits as permitted by law.   
The federal and state laws and regulations that are applicable 
to banks and to some extent bank holding companies regulate, 

among other matters, the scope of their business, their activities, 

their investments, their reserves against deposits, the timing of the 

availability of deposited funds, the amount of loans to individual 

and related borrowers and the nature, amount of and collateral for 

certain loans, and the amount of interest that may be charged on 

loans. Various federal and state consumer laws and regulations 

also affect the services provided to consumers.  
The Bancorp and/or its subsidiary are required to file various 
reports with, and is subject to examination by regulators, 

including the FRB and the Division. The FRB, Division and the 

CFPB have the authority to issue orders to bank holding 

companies and/or banks to cease and desist from certain banking 
practices and violations of conditions imposed by, or violations of 
agreements with, the FRB, Division and CFPB. Certain of the 

Bancorp™s and/or its banking subsidiary regulators are also 

empowered to assess civil money penalties against companies or 

individuals in certain situations, such as when there is a violation 

of a law or regulation. Applicable state and federal laws also 

grant certain regulators the authority to impose additional 

requirements and restrictions on the activities of the Bancorp and 

or its banking subsidiary and, in some situations, the imposition 

of such additional requirements and restrictions will not be 

publicly available information.  

 
Acquisitions 

The BHCA requires the prior approval of the FRB for a bank 

holding company to acquire substantially all the assets of a bank 
or to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 
5% of any class of the voting shares of any bank, bank holding 

company or savings association, or to increase any such non-

majority ownership or control of any bank, bank holding 

company or savings association, or to merge or consolidate with 

any bank holding company.  
The BHCA prohibits a bank holding company from 
acquiring a direct or indirect interest in or control of more than 

5% of any class of the voting shar
es of a company that is not a 
bank or a bank holding company and from engaging directly or 

indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or 
controlling banks or furnishing services to its banking 
subsidiaries, except that it may engage in and may own shares of 

companies engaged in certain activities the FRB has determined 

to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling 

banks as to be proper incident thereto. 

 
Financial Holding Companies  
The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (ﬁGLBAﬂ) permits a 
qualifying bank holding company to become a financial holding 

company (ﬁFHCﬂ) and thereby to engage directly or indirectly in 

a broader range of activities than those permitted for a bank 

holding company under the BHCA. Permitted activities for a 

FHC include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance 

underwriting and brokerage, merchant banking and other 

activities that are declared by the FRB, in cooperation with the 

Treasury Department, to be ﬁfinancial in nature or incidental 

theretoﬂ or are declared by the FRB unilaterally to be 

ﬁcomplementaryﬂ to financial activities. In addition, a FHC is 

allowed to conduct permissible new financial activities or acquire 

permissible non-bank financial companies with after-the-fact 

notice to the FRB. A bank holding company may elect to become 

a FHC if each of its banking subsidiaries is well capitalized, is 
well managed and has at least a ﬁSatisfactoryﬂ rating under the 
Community Reinvestment Act (ﬁCRAﬂ). The Dodd-Frank Wall 

Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the ﬁDodd-Frank 

Actﬂ) also extended the well capitalized and well managed 

requirement to the bank holding company. In 2000, the Bancorp 

elected and qualified for FHC status under the GLBA. To 

maintain FHC status, a holding company must continue to meet 

certain requirements. The failure to meet such requirements could 

result in restrictions on the activities of the FHC or loss of FHC 

status. If restrictions are imposed on the activities of an FHC, 

such information may not necessarily be available to the public.  

 
Dividends 

The Bancorp depends in part upon dividends received from its 

direct and indirect subsidiaries, including its indirect banking 
subsidiary, to fund its activities, including the payment of 
dividends. The Bancorp and its banking subsidiary are subject to 

various federal and state restrictions on their ability to pay 

dividends. The FRB has authority to prohibit bank holding 

companies from paying dividends if such payment is deemed to 

be an unsafe or unsound practice. The FRB has indicated 

generally that it may be an unsafe or unsound practice for bank 

holding companies to pay dividends unless a bank holding 

company™s net income is sufficient to fund the dividends and the 

expected rate of earnings retention is consistent with the 

organization™s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial 

condition. The ability to pay dividends may be further limited by 

provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and implanting regulations (see 

the ﬁRegulatory Reformﬂ section).   

 Source of Strength 
Under long-standing FRB policy and now as codified in the 

Dodd-Frank Act, a bank holding company is expected to act as a 

source of financial and managerial strength to each of its banking 

subsidiaries and to commit resources to their support.  This 

support may be required at times when the bank holding company 

may not have the resources to provide it.   
 FDIC Assessments  

As contemplated by the Dodd-Frank Act the FDIC has revised the 

framework by which insured depository institutions with more 
  175  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 than $10 billion in assets (ﬁlarg
e IDIsﬂ) are assessed for purposes 
of payments to the Deposit Insurance Fund (the ﬁDIFﬂ). The final 

rule implementing revisions to the assessment system took effect 

for the quarter beginning April 1, 2011.  
Prior to the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, a large IDI™s 
DIF premiums principally were based on the size of an IDI™s 

domestic deposit base. The Dodd-Frank Act changed the 

assessment base from a large IDI™s 
domestic deposit base to its 
total assets less tangible equity. In addition to potentially greatly 

increasing the size of a large IDI™s
 assessment base, the expansion 
of the assessment base affords the FDIC much greater flexibility 
to vary its assessment system based upon the different asset 
classes that large IDIs normally hold on their balance sheets.  
To implement this provision, the FDIC created an 
assessment scheme vastly different from the deposit-based 

system. Under the new system, large IDIs are assessed under a 

complex ﬁscorecardﬂ methodology that seeks to capture both the 

probability that an individual large IDI will fail and the 

magnitude of the impact on the DIF if such a failure occurs.  

 
Transactions with Affiliates 

Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, restrict 

transactions between a bank and its affiliates (as defined in 

Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act), including a 

parent bank holding company. The Bancorp™s banking subsidiary 
is subject to certain restrictions, including but not limited to 
restrictions on loans to its affiliates, on investments in the stock or 

securities thereof, on the taking of such stock or securities as 

collateral for loans to any borro
wer, and on the issuance of a 
guarantee or letter of credit on their behalf. Among other things, 

these restrictions limit the amount of such transactions, require 

collateral in prescribed amounts for extensions of credit, prohibit 

the purchase of low quality assets and require that the terms of 

such transactions be substantially equivalent to terms of 

comparable transactions with non-affiliates. Generally, the 

Bancorp™s banking subsidiary is limited in its extension of credit 

to any affiliate to 10% of the banking subsidiary™s capital stock 

and surplus and its extension of credit to all affiliates to 20% of 

the banking subsidiary™s capital stock and surplus.  

 Community Reinvestment Act
  The CRA generally requires insured depository institutions to 

identify the communities they serve and to make loans and 

investments and provide services that meet the credit needs of 

those communities. Furthermore, the CRA requires the FRB to 

evaluate the performance of the Bancorp™s banking subsidiary in 

helping to meet the credit needs of its communities. As a part of 

the CRA program, the banking subsidiary is subject to periodic 

examinations by the FRB, and must maintain comprehensive 

records of their CRA activities for this purpose. During these 

examinations, the FRB rates such institutions™ compliance with 

the CRA as ﬁOutstanding,ﬂ ﬁSatisfactory,ﬂ ﬁNeeds to Improveﬂ or 

ﬁSubstantial Noncompliance.ﬂ Failure of an institution to receive 

at least a ﬁSatisfactoryﬂ rating could inhibit such institution or its 

holding company from undertaking certain activities, including 
engaging in activities permitted as a financial holding company 
under the GLBA and acquiring other financial institutions. The 

FRB must take into account the record of performance of banks in 

meeting the credit needs of the entire community served, 

including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. Fifth Third 

Bank received a ﬁSatisfactoryﬂ CRA rating in its most recent 

CRA examination.  

 
 Capital  The FRB has established capital guidelines for bank holding 

companies and FHCs. The FRB, the Division and the FDIC have 

also issued regulations establishing capital requirements for 

banks. Failure to meet capital requirements could subject the 

Bancorp and its banking subsidiary to a variety of restrictions and 

enforcement actions. In addition, as discussed previously, the 

Bancorp and its banking subsidiary must remain well capitalized 

and well managed for the Bancorp to retain its status as a FHC. 

See the ﬁRegulatory Reformﬂ section for additional information 

on capital requirements impacting the Bancorp. 
 Privacy  
The FRB, FDIC and other bank regulatory agencies have adopted 

final guidelines (the ﬁGuidelines) for safeguarding confidential, 

personal customer information. The Guidelines require each 

financial institution, under the supervision and ongoing oversight 

of its Board of Directors or an 
appropriate committee thereof, to 
create, implement and maintain a comprehensive written 

information security program designed to ensure the security and 

confidentiality of customer information, protect against any 

anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such 

information and protect against unauthorized access to or use of 

such information that could result in substantial harm or 

inconvenience to any customer. The Bancorp has adopted a 
customer information security program that has been approved by 
the Bancorp™s Board of Directors. 
The GLBA requires financial institutions to implement 
policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of nonpublic 

personal information about consumers to non-affiliated third 

parties. In general, the statute requires explanations to consumers 

on policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of such 

nonpublic personal information, and, except as otherwise required 

by law, prohibits disclosing such information except as provided 

in the banking subsidiary™s policies and procedures. The 

Bancorp™s banking subsidiary has implemented a privacy policy.  

 
Anti-Money Laundering 

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing 

Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism 
Act of 2001 (the ﬁPatriot Actﬂ), designed to deny terrorists and 
others the ability to obtain access to the United States financial 

system, has significant implications for depository institutions, 

brokers, dealers and other businesses involved in the transfer of 

money. The Patriot Act, as implemented by various federal 

regulatory agencies, requires financial institutions, including the 

Bancorp and its subsidiaries, to implement new policies and 

procedures or amend existing policies and procedures with 

respect to, among other matters, anti-money laundering, 

compliance, suspicious activity and currency transaction reporting 

and due diligence on customers. The Patriot Act and its 

underlying regulations also permit information sharing for 

counter-terrorist purposes between federal law enforcement 

agencies and financial institutions, as well as among financial 

institutions, subject to certain conditions, and require the FRB 
(and other federal banking agencies) to evaluate the effectiveness 
of an applicant in combating money laundering activities when 

considering applications filed under Section 3 of the BHCA or the 

Bank Merger Act. The Bancorp™s Board has approved policies 

and procedures that are believed to be compliant with the Patriot 

Act.  
 
 
 ` 176  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Exempt Brokerage Activities The GLBA amended the federal securities laws to eliminate the 

blanket exceptions that banks traditionally have had from the 

definition of ﬁbrokerﬂ and ﬁdealer.ﬂ The GLBA also required that 

there be certain transactional activities that would not be 

ﬁbrokerageﬂ activities, which banks could effect without having 

to register as a broker. In September 2007, the FRB and SEC 
approved Regulation R to govern bank securities activities. 
Various exemptions permit banks to conduct activities that would 

otherwise constitute brokerage activ
ities under the securities laws. 
Those exemptions include conducting brokerage activities related 

to trust, fiduciary and similar se
rvices, certain services and also 
conducting a de minimis number of riskless principal 

transactions, certain asset-backed transactions and certain 

securities lending transactions. The Bancorp only conducts non-

exempt brokerage activities through its affiliated registered 

broker-dealer.   Regulatory Reform 
 On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-
Frank Act, which is aimed, in part, at accountability and 

transparency in the financial system and includes numerous 
provisions that apply to and/or could impact the Bancorp and its 
banking subsidiary. The Dodd-Frank Act implements changes 

that, among other things, affect the oversight and supervision of 

financial institutions, provide for a new resolution procedure for 

large financial companies, create a new agency responsible for 

implementing and enforcing compliance with consumer financial 

laws, introduce more stringent regulatory capital requirements, 

effect significant changes in the regulation of over-the-counter 

derivatives, reform the regulation of credit rating agencies, 

implement changes to corporate governance and executive 

compensation practices, incorporate requirements on proprietary 

trading and investing in certain funds by financial institutions 

(known as the ﬁVolcker Ruleﬂ), require registration of advisers to 

certain private funds, and effect significant changes in the 

securitization market.  In order to fully implement many 
provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, various government agencies, 
in particular banking and other financial services agencies are 

required to promulgate regulations. Set forth below is a 

discussion of some of the major sections the Dodd-Frank Act and 

implementing regulations that have or could have a substantial 

impact on the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary. Due to the 

volume of regulations required by the Dodd-Frank Act, not all 

proposed or final regulations that may have an impact on the 

Bancorp or its banking subsidiary are necessarily discussed.  

 
Financial Stability Oversight Council  

The Dodd-Frank Act created the Financial Stability Oversight 

Council (ﬁFSOCﬂ), which is chaired by the Secretary of the 

Treasury and composed of expertise from various financial 

services regulators. The FSOC has 
responsibility for identifying 
risks and responding to emerging threats to financial stability. On 
March 15, 2012, the Department of Treasury issued an interim 

final rule to establish an assessment schedule for the collection of 

fees from bank holding companies and foreign banks with at least 

$50 billion in assets to cover the expenses of the Office of 

Financial Research and FSOC. The fees would also cover certain 

expenses incurred by the FDIC. The Bancorp paid approximately 

$1 million for the initial assessment period which commenced 

July 21, 2012 and ended March 31, 2013 and was not assessed a 

fee in the first semiannual assessment which ended September 30, 

2013.  On August 16, 2013, the FRB also adopted a final rule to 
implement an assessment provision under the Dodd-Frank Act 

equal to the expense and the FRB estimates are necessary or 

appropriate to supervise and regulate bank holding companies 

with $50 billion or more in assets. The Bancorp paid 

approximately $3 million for the first annual assessment under the 

FRB™s rule.  
 Executive Compensation 
 The Dodd-Frank Act provides for a say on pay for shareholders of 

all public companies. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, each company 

must give its shareholders the opportunity to vote on the 

compensation of its executives at least once every three years. 

The Dodd-Frank Act also adds disclosure and voting 

requirements for golden parachute compensation that is payable 

to named executive officers in connection with sale transactions. 

The SEC adopted rules finalizing these say on pay provisions in 

January 2011. 
Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, in June 2012, the SEC 
adopted a final rule directing the stock exchanges to prohibit 

listing classes of equity securities if a company™s compensation 

committee members are not independent. The rule also provides 
that a company™s compensation committee may only select a 
compensation consultant, legal counsel or other advisor after 

taking into consideration factors to be identified by the SEC that 

affect the independence of a compensation consultant, legal 

counsel or other advisor.  The SEC is required under the Dodd-Frank Act to issue rules 
obligating companies to disclose in proxy materials for annual 

meetings of shareholders information that shows the relationship 

between executive compensation actually paid to their named 

executive officers and their financial performance, taking into 

account any change in the value of the shares of a company™s 

stock and dividends or distributions. The Dodd-Frank Act also 

requires the SEC to propose rules requiring companies to disclose 

the ratio of the compensation of its chief executive officer to the 

median compensation of its employees. The SEC proposed rules 
implementing the pay ratio provisions in September 2013. 
The Dodd-Frank Act provides that the SEC must issue rules 
directing the stock exchanges to prohibit listing any security of a 

company unless the company develops and implements a policy 

providing for disclosure of the policy of the company on 

incentive-based compensation that is based on financial 

information required to be reported under the securities laws and 

that, in the event the company is required to prepare an 

accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the 

company with any financial reporting requirement under the 

securities laws, the company will recover from any current or 

former executive officer of the company who received incentive-

based compensation during the three-year period preceding the 

date on which the company is required to prepare the restatement 

based on the erroneous data, any exceptional compensation above 
what would have been paid under the restatement.  
The Dodd-Frank Act requires the SEC to adopt a rule to 
require that each company disclose in the proxy materials for its 

annual meetings whether an employee or board member is 

permitted to purchase financial instruments designed to hedge or 

offset decreases in the market value of equity securities granted as 

compensation or otherwise held by the employee or board 

member.  
    177  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Corporate Governance 
 The Dodd-Frank Act clarifies that the SEC may, but is not 
required to promulgate rules that would require that a company™s 

proxy materials include a nominee for the board of directors 

submitted by a shareholder. Although the SEC promulgated rules 

to accomplish this, these rules were invalidated by a federal 

appeals court decision.  The SEC has said that they will not 

challenge the ruling, but has not ruled out the possibility that new 

rules could be proposed. 
The Dodd-Frank Act requires stock exchanges to have rules 
prohibiting their members from voting securities that they do not 
beneficially own (unless they have received voting instructions 
from the beneficial owner) with respect to the election of a 

member of the board of directors (other than an uncontested 

election of directors of an investment company registered under 

the Investment Company Act of 1940), executive compensation 

or any other significant matter, as determined by the SEC by rule.  

 
Credit Ratings  

The Dodd-Frank Act includes a number of provisions that are 

targeted at improving the reliability of credit ratings. The SEC has 

been charged with adopting various rules in this regard.  
Consumer Issues 
 The Dodd-Frank Act created a new bureau, the CFPB, which has 
the authority to implement regulations pursuant to numerous 

consumer protection laws and has supervisory authority, 

including the power to conduct examination and take enforcement 

actions, with respect to depository institutions with more than $10 
billion in consolidated assets. The CFPB also has authority, with 
respect to consumer financial services to, among other things, 

restrict unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices, enforce laws 

that prohibit discrimination and unfair treatment and to require 

certain consumer disclosures.  

 
Debit Card Interchange Fees 
 The Dodd-Frank Act provides for a set of new rules requiring that 

interchange transaction fees for electric debit transactions be 

ﬁreasonableﬂ and proportional to certain costs associated with 

processing the transactions. The FRB was given authority to, 

among other things, establish standards for assessing whether 

interchange fees are reasonable and proportional. In June 2011, 

the FRB issued a final rule establishing certain standards and 

prohibitions pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, including 
establishing standards for debit card interchange fees and 
allowing for an upward adjustment if the issuer develops and 

implements policies and procedures reasonably designed to 

prevent fraud.  The provisions regarding debit card interchange 

fees and the fraud adjustment became effective October 1, 2011.   

The rules impose requirements on the Bancorp and its banking 

subsidiary and may negatively impact our revenues and results of 

operations. On July 31, 2013 a United States District Court found 

that portions of the final interchange rules were contrary to the 

language of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Court held that, in adopting 

the final rules, the FRB violated the Durbin Amendment™s 

provisions concerning which costs are allowed to be taken into 

account for purposes of setting fees that are reasonable and 

proportional to the costs incurred by the issuer and therefore the 
rule™s maximum permissible fees were too high. In addition, the 
Court held that the final rules™ network non-exclusivity provisions 

concerning unaffiliated payment networks for debit cards also 

violated the Durbin Amendment. The Court vacated the final rule, 

but stayed its ruling to provide the FRB an opportunity to replace 

the invalidated portions. The FRB has appealed this decision. If 

this decision is ultimately upheld and/or the FRB re-issues rules 
for purposes of implementing the Durbin Amendment in a 
manner consistent with this decision, the amount of debit card 

interchange fees the Bancorp would be permitted to charge likely 

would be reduced.  
FDIC Matters and Resolution Planning
 Title II of the Dodd-Frank Act creates an orderly liquidation 
process that the FDIC can employ for failing systemically 

important financial companies. Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act 

also codifies many of the temporary changes that had already 

been implemented, such as permanently increasing the amount of 

deposit insurance to $250,000.  
In January 2012, the FDIC issued a final rule that requires an 
insured depository institution with $50 billion or more in total 
assets to submit periodic contingency plans to the FDIC for 
resolution in the event of the institution™s failure.  The rule 

became effective in January 2012, however, submission of plans 

will be staggered over a period of time.  The Bancorp™s banking 

subsidiary is subject to this rule and submitted its first resolution 

plan pursuant to this rule as of December 31, 2013.  
In October 2011, the FRB and FDIC issued a final rule 
implementing the resolution planning requirements of 

Section165(d) of the Dodd-Frank Act.  The final rule requires 

bank holding companies with assets of $50 billion or more and 

nonbank financial firms designated by FSOC for supervision by 

the FRB to annually submit resolution plans to the FDIC and 

FRB.  Each plan shall describe the company™s strategy for rapid 

and orderly resolution in bankruptcy during times of financial 

distress.   Under the final rule, companies will submit their initial 
resolution plans on a staggered basis.  The Bancorp submitted its 
first resolution plan pursuant to this rule as of December 31, 

2013.  
 
Proprietary Trading and Investing in Certain Funds 

The Dodd-Frank Act sets forth new restrictions on banking 

organizations™ ability to engage in proprietary trading and 

sponsors of or invest in private equity and hedge funds (the 

ﬁVolcker Ruleﬂ). The final regulations implementing the Volcker 

Rule (ﬁFinal Rulesﬂ) were adopted on December 10, 2013. The 

Volcker Rule generally prohibits any banking entity from (i) 

engaging in short-term proprietary trading for its own account and 

(ii) sponsoring or acquiring any ownership interest in a private 

equity or hedge fund. The Volcker Rule and Final Rules contain a 

number of exceptions. The Volcker Rule permits transactions in 
the securities of the U.S. government and its agencies, certain 
government-sponsored enterprises and states and their political 

subdivisions, as well as certain investments in small business 

investment companies.  Transactions on behalf of customers and 

in connection with certain underwriting and market making 

activities, as well as risk-mitiga
ting hedging activities and certain 
foreign banking activities are also permitted. The Final Rules 

exclude certain funds from the prohibition on fund ownership and 

sponsorship including wholly-owned subsidiaries, joint ventures, 

and acquisitions vehicles, as well as SEC registered investment 

companies. 
De minimis
 ownership of private equity or hedge 
funds is also permitted under the Final Rules. In addition to the 

general prohibition on sponsorship and investment, the Volcker 

rule contains additional requirements applicable to any private 
equity or hedge fund that is sponsored by the banking entity or for 
which it serves as investment manager or investment advisor.  

The Bancorp will be required under the Final Rules to 

demonstrate that it has a Volcker Rule compliance program. In 

connection with the issuance of the Final Rules, the Federal 

Reserve extended the conformance period generally until July 21, 

2015. The Final Rules become effective April 2014, but because 
` 178  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 of the FRB general extension, the Bancorp will have until July 21, 
2015 to fully conform its activities and investments to the Final 

Rules. The FRB may extend the conformance period for two 

additional one-year periods. Further, with respect to covered 

funds that are ﬁilliquid fundsﬂ, the FRB has the authority to grant 

up to five more years for the Bancorp to conform to the final 

Volcker Rule with respect to such illiquid funds. The Bancorp 
does not know whether it will be granted any extension of time to 
conform its activities to the final Volcker Rule.  
  
Derivatives  

Title VII of the Dodd-Frank Act includes measures to broaden the 

scope of derivative instruments subject to regulation by requiring 

clearing and exchange trading of certain derivatives, imposing 

new capital and margin requirements for certain market 

participants and imposing position limits on certain over-the-

counter derivatives. Certain affiliates of the Bancorp that engage 

in significant swaps activities may be required to register with the 

Commodity Futures Trading Commission or the SEC as a swap 

dealer, security0based swap dealer, major swap participant or 

major security-based swap participant. As with the Volcker Rule, 

the Bancorp will be required to demonstrate that it has a 
satisfactory compliance program to monitor the activities of any 
such entity registered under the new regulations. The ultimate 

impact of these derivatives regulations, and the time it will take to 

comply, continues to remain uncertain. The final regulations will 

impose additional operational and compliance costs on us and 

may require us to restructure certain businesses and negatively 

impact our revenues and results of operations. 
Interstate Bank Branching 
 The Dodd-Frank Act includes provisions permitting national and 
insured state banks to engage in 
de novo
 interstate branching if, 
under the laws of the state where the new branch is to be 

established, a state bank chartered in that state would be permitted 

to establish a branch.  
Systemically Significant Companies and Capital
 Title I of the Dodd-Frank Act creates a new regulatory regime for 

large bank holding companies. U.S. bank holding companies with 

$50 billion or more in total consolidated assets, including Fifth 
Third, are subject to enhanced prudential standards and early 
remediation requirements under Title I. Title I of Dodd-Frank 

establishes a broad framework for identifying, applying 

heightened supervision and regulation to, and (as necessary) 

limiting the size and activities of systemically significant 

financial companies.  
The Dodd-Frank Act requires the FRB to impose enhanced 
capital and risk-management standards on these firms and 

mandates the FRB to conduct annual stress tests on all bank 

holding companies with $50 billion or more in assets to determine 

whether they have the capital needed to absorb losses in baseline, 

adverse, and severely adverse economic conditions.  In November 

2011, the FRB adopted final rules requiring bank holding 

companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets to 

submit capital plans to the FRB on an annual basis.  Under the 
final rules, the FRB annually will evaluate an institutions capital 
adequacy, internal capital adequacy, assessment processes and 

plans to make capital distributions such as dividend payments and 

stock repurchases.   
In November 2013, the FRB provided instructions on the 
2014 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (ﬁCCARﬂ). 

The 2014 CCAR required bank holding companies with 

consolidated assets of $50 billion or more to submit a capital plan 
to the FRB by January 6, 2014. The mandatory elements of the 
capital plan are an assessment of the expected use and sources of 

capital over the planning horizon, a description of all planned 

capital actions over the planning horizon, a discussion of any 

expected changes to the Bancorp™s business plan that are likely to 

have a material impact on its capital adequacy or liquidity, a 

detailed description of the Bancorp™s process for assessing capital 
adequacy and the Bancorp™s capital policy. 
 In December 2011, the FRB issued proposed rules to 
strengthen regulation and supervision of large bank holding 

companies and systemically important nonbank financial firms.  

The proposed rules would generally apply to all U.S. bank 

holding companies with consolidated assets of $50 billion or 

more, such as the Bancorp, and any nonbank financial firms that 

may be designated by the FSOC as systemically important 

companies.  The proposal, which is mandated by the Dodd-Frank 

Act, includes a wide range of measures addressing such issues as 

capital, liquidity, credit exposure, stress testing, risk management 

and early remediation requirements.   
In December of 2010 and revised in June of 2011, the Basel 
Committee on Banking Supervision (the ﬁBasel Committeeﬂ) 

issued Basel III, a global regulatory framework, to enhance 
international capital standards. Ba
sel III is designed to materially 
improve the quality of regulatory capital and introduces a new 

minimum common equity requireme
nt. Basel III also raises the 
numerical minimum capital requirements and introduces capital 

conservation and countercyclical buffers to induce banking 

organizations to hold capital in excess of regulatory minimums. 

In addition, Basel III establishe
s an international leverage 
standard for internationally active banks.  
In June of 2012, U.S. banking regulators proposed 
enhancements to the regulatory capital requirements for U.S. 

banks, which implement aspects of 
Basel III, such as re-defining 
the regulatory capital elements and minimum capital ratios, 

introducing regulatory capital buffers above those minimums, 

revising the agencies™ rules for calculating risk-weighted assets 

and introducing a new Tier I common equity ratio. In July of 
2013, U.S. banking regulators approved the final enhanced 
regulatory capital rules (ﬁFinal Capital Rulesﬂ), which included 

modifications to the proposed rules. 
The Final Capital Rules, among other things, (i) introduce a 
new capital measure ﬁCommon Equity Tier 1ﬂ (ﬁCET1ﬂ), (ii) 

specify that Tier 1 capital consists of CET1 and ﬁAdditional Tier 

1 capitalﬂ instruments meeting specified requirements, (iii) define 

CET1 narrowly by requiring that most adjustments to regulatory 

capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other 

components of capital and (iv) expand the scope of the 

adjustments as compared to existing regulations. CET1 capital 

consists of common stock instruments that meet the eligibility 

criteria in the final rules, retained earnings, accumulated other 

comprehensive income and common equity Tier 1 minority 

interest. 
When fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, the Final Capital 
Rules require banking organizations to maintain (i) a minimum 

ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 

2.5% ﬁcapital conservation bufferﬂ (which is added to the 4.5% 

CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased-in, effectively resulting in a 

minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7.0% 

upon full implementation), (ii) a minimum ratio of Tier 1 capital 

to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the capital 

conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0% Tier 1 capital 

ratio as that buffer is phased-in, effectively resulting in a 

minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation), 
  179  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 (iii) a minimum ratio of total capital (that is, Tier 1 plus Tier 2 
capital) to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the capital 

conservation buffer (which is added to the 8.0% total capital ratio 

as that buffer is phased-in, effectively resulting in a minimum 

total capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation) and (iv) as 

a newly adopted international standard, a minimum leverage ratio 

of 4.0%, calculated as the ratio of Tier 1 capital to adjusted 

average consolidated assets for large internationally active banks. 
The Final Capital Rules also provide for a ﬁcountercyclical 
capital bufferﬂ designed to absorb losses during periods of 

economic stress. Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to 
risk-weighted assets above the minimum but below the 
conservation buffer will face limitations on the payment of 

dividends, common stock repurchases and discretionary cash 

payments to executive officers based on the amount of the 

shortfall. The Final Capital Rules provide for a number of deductions 
from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the 

requirement that mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets 

dependent upon future taxable income and significant investments 

in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to 

the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all 

such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1. Under 

current capital standards, the effects of accumulated other 

comprehensive income items included in capital are excluded for 
the purposes of determining regulatory capital ratios. Under the 
Final Capital Rules, Bancorp has a one-time election (the ﬁOpt-

out Electionﬂ) to filter certain accumulated other comprehensive 

income (ﬁAOCIﬂ) components, comparable to the treatment under 

the current general risk-based capital rule.  
The new capital rules are effective for the Bancorp on 
January 1, 2015, subject to phase-in periods for certain of their 

components and other provisions. The Bancorp is in the process 

of evaluating the final rules and their potential impact. 
` 180  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 
 The Bancorp™s executive offices and the main office of Fifth Third 
Bank are located on Fountain Square 
Plaza in downtown Cincinnati, 
Ohio in a 32-story office tower, a 
five-story office 
building with an 
attached parking garage and a se
parate ten-story office building 
known as the Fifth Third Center, the William S. Rowe Building and 
the 530 Building, respectively. The 
Bancorp™s main operations center 
is located in Cincinnati, Ohio, in a three-story building with an 
attached parking garage known as the Madisonville Operations 
Center. The Bank owns 100% of these buildings.  
At December 31, 2013, the Bancorp, through its banking and non-
banking subsidiaries, operated 1,
320 banking centers, of which 941 
were owned, 264 were leased a
nd 115 for which the buildings are 
owned but the land is leased. The banking centers are located in the 
states of Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, Florida, 
Tennessee, North Carolina, West Vi
rginia, Pennsylvania, Missouri, 
and Georgia. The Bancorp™s signif
icant owned properties are owned 
free from mortgages and major encumbrances.  
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE BANCORP 
 Officers are appointed annually by the Board of Directors at the 
meeting of Directors immediatel
y following the Annual Meeting of 
Shareholders. The names, ages 
and positions of the Executive 
Officers of the Bancorp as of February 24, are listed below along 
with their business experience during the past 5 years:  
 Kevin T. Kabat
, 57. Vice Chairman of the Bancorp since September 
2012 and Chief Executive Officer of the Bancorp since April 2007. 
Previously, Mr. Kabat was President of the Bancorp from June 2006 
to September 2012 and Chairman 
from June 2008 to June 2010. Prior 
to that, Mr. Kabat was Executive Vice President of the Bancorp since 
December 2003.  
 Steven Alonso
, 53. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp since 
March 2012. Previously, Mr. Alonso was Executive Vice President of 
Fifth Third Bank since November 2008.  Prior to that, Mr. Alonso 
served as founder, chairman and 
CEO of OakStreet Mortgage, LLC. 
  Greg D. Carmichael
, 52. President of the Bancorp since September 
2012 and Chief Operating Officer of
 the Bancorp since June 2006. 
Previously, Mr. Carmichael was the Executive Vice President and 
Chief Information Officer of 
the Bancorp since June 2003.  
 Frank R. Forrest
, 59.  Executive Vice President and Chief Risk and 
Credit Officer of the Bancorp sin
ce September 2013. Previously, Mr. 
Forrest served with Bank of Amer
ica Merrill Lynch. From March 
2012 until June 2013, Mr. Forrest se
rved as Managing Director and 
Quality Control Executive for Legacy
 Asset Services, a division of 
Bank of America. From Sept
ember 2008 until March 2012, Mr. 
Forrest was Managing Director a
nd Global Debt Products Executive 
for Global Corporate and Investment Banking. Formerly from 
January 2007 to September 2008, Mr
. Forrest was Risk Management 
Executive for Commercial Banking.   
 Mark D. Hazel
, 48. Senior Vice President and Controller of the 
Bancorp since February 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Hazel was the 
Assistant Bancorp Controller sin
ce 2006 and was the Controller of 
Nonbank entities since 2003.  
 James R. Hubbard
, 55. Senior Vice President and Chief Legal 
Officer of the Bancorp since February 2010. Prior to that, 
Mr. Hubbard was the Senior Vice President and Director of Legal 
Services since June 2001.  
   James C. Leonard
, 44. Senior Vice President and Treasurer of the 
Bancorp since October 2013. Prev
iously, Mr. Leonard was the 
Director of Business Planning a
nd Analysis since 2006 and was the 
Chief Financial Officer of the 
Commercial Banking Division since 2001.  Gregory L. Kosch
, 54. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp 
since June 2005. Previously, Mr. Ko
sch was Senior Vice President 
and head of the Bancorp™s Commercial Division in the Chicago 
affiliate since June 2002.  
 Daniel T. Poston
, 55. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp since 
June 2003, and Chief Strategy a
nd Administrative Officer of the 
Bancorp since October 2013. Previ
ously, Mr. Poston was the Chief 
Financial Officer of the Bancor
p from September 2009 to October 
2013. Previously, Mr. Poston was the Controller of the Bancorp from 
July 2007 to May 2008 and from November 2008 to September 2009. 
Previously, Mr. Poston was the Chief Financial Officer of the 
Bancorp from May 2008 to Novemb
er 2008. Formerly, Mr. Poston 
was the Auditor of the Bancorp since October 2001 and was Senior 
Vice President of the Bancorp and Fifth Third Bank since January 
2002.   Joseph R. Robinson
, 46. Executive Vice President and Chief 
Information Officer and Director 
of Information Technology and 
Operations of the Bancorp si
nce September 2009. Previously, 
Mr. Robinson was Executive Vice President and Chief Information 
Officer of the Bancorp since April 2008. Prior to that, he was Senior 
Vice President and Director of Central Operations since November 
2006 and Senior Vice President of IT Enterprise Solutions since 
March 2004.  
 Robert A. Sullivan
, 59. Senior Executive Vice President of the 
Bancorp since December 2002.  
 Teresa J. Tanner
, 45. Executive Vice President and Chief Human 
Resources Officer of the Bancorp 
since February 2010. Previously, 
Ms. Tanner was Senior Vice Presiden
t and Director of Enterprise 
Learning since September 2008. 
Prior to that, she was Human 
Resources Senior Vice President a
nd Senior Business Partner for the 
Information Technology and Central 
Operations divisions since July 
2006. Previously, she was Vice Pr
esident and Senior Business 
Partner for Operations 
since September 2004.  
 Mary E. Tuuk
, 49. Executive Vice President of Corporate Services 
& Board Secretary of the Bancorp since July 2013. Previously, Ms. 
Tuuk served as Affiliate President of Fifth Third Bank (Western 
Michigan) from November 2011 to June 2013. Prior to that, Ms. 
Tuuk was the Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer of the 
Bancorp from June 2007 to October 2011 and from July 2013 
through September 2013. Ms. Tuuk wa
s Senior Vice President of 
Fifth Third Bancorp since 2003.  
 Tayfun Tuzun
, 49.  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial 
Officer of the Bancorp since October 2013. Previously, Mr. Tuzun 
was the Senior Vice President and Treasurer of the Bancorp from 
December 2011 to October 2013. Prior to that, Mr. Tuzun was the 
Assistant Treasurer and Balance Sheet Manager of Fifth Third 
Bancorp. Previously, Mr. Tuzun wa
s the Structured Finance Manager 
since 2007.   
  181  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 PART II 
 ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT™S COMMON EQ
UITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER 
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
 The Bancorp™s common stock is traded in the over-the-counter mark
et and is listed under the symbol ﬁFITBﬂ on the NASDAQ® Global
 Select Market System.  

 High and Low Stock Prices and Dividends Paid Per Share
   Dividends Paid
2013  High  Low
     Per Share
Fourth Quarter $21.14 
$17.49 
$0.12 
Third Quarter 
$19.79 
$17.80 
$0.12 
Second Quarter 
$18.74 
$15.62 
$0.12 
First Quarter 
$16.77 
$15.19 
$0.11 
          Dividends Paid
2012  High  Low
     Per Share
Fourth Quarter $16.16 
$13.75 
$0.10 
Third Quarter 
$15.95 
$13.07 
$0.10 
Second Quarter 
$14.67 
$12.04 
$0.08 
First Quarter 
$14.73 
$12.78 
$0.08 
        See a discussion of dividend limitations that the subsidiaries can pay to the Bancorp discussed in Note 3 of the Notes to the C
onsolidated 
Financial Statements. Additionally, as of December 31,
 2013, the Bancorp had 49,524 shareholders of record. 
 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
 Period Shares Purchased(a)
Average Price 
Paid Per Share Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced 
Plans or Programs Maximum Shares that May Be Purchased Under the 
Plans or Programs October 2013 
 4,270,250 
$18.39 
 4,270,250 
70,694,231
November 2013 
 8,538,423 
 19.68 
 8,538,423 
62,155,808
December 2013 
 19,084,195 
 20.33 
 19,084,195 
43,071,613
Total  31,892,868 
$19.90 
 31,892,868 
43,071,613
(a)
 The Bancorp repurchased 66,283,
 93,841 and 63,573 shares during October, Novembe
r and December of 2013 in connection with vario
us employee compensation plans of the Bancorp.  These purchases are not incl
uded against the maximum number of shares that may yet be purch
ased under the Board of 
Directors authorization. 
 See further discussion of stock-based compensation in Note 24 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
. ` 182  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following performance graphs do not constitute soliciting material and should not be deemed filed or incorporated by refere
nce into any 
other Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent the Bancorp 
specifically 
incorporates the performance graphs by reference therein. 
 Total Return Analysis 
 The graphs below summarize the cumulative return experienced by the Bancorp's shareholders over the years 2008 through 2013, an
d 2003 
through 2013, respectively, compared to the S&P 500 Stock and the S&P Banks indices.   
  FIFTH THIRD BANCORP VS. MARKET INDICES 
  183  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 PART III   
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND 

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 The information required by this item relating to the Executive 
Officers of the Registrant is included in PART I under 

ﬁEXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE BANCORP.ﬂ  
The information required by this item concerning Directors 
and the nomination process is incorporated herein by reference 

under the caption ﬁELECTION OF DIRECTORSﬂ of the 

Bancorp™s Proxy Statement for the 2014 Annual Meeting of 

Shareholders.  
The information required by this item concerning the Audit 
Committee and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is 

incorporated herein by reference under the captions 

ﬁCORPORATE GOVERNANCEﬂ and ﬁBOARD OF 

DIRECTORS, ITS COMMITTEES, MEETINGS AND 

FUNCTIONSﬂ of the Bancorp™s Proxy Statement for the 2014 

Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  
The information required by this item concerning Section 16 
(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance is incorporated 

herein by reference under the caption ﬁSECTION 16 (a) 

BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP RE
PORTING COMPLIANCEﬂ of 
the Bancorp™s Proxy Statement for the 2014 Annual Meeting of 

Shareholders.  
 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
 The information required by this item is incorporated herein by 
reference under the captions ﬁCOMPENSATION DISCUSSION 

AND ANALYSIS,ﬂ ﬁCOMPENSATION OF NAMED 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS,ﬂ 

ﬁCOMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORTﬂ and 
ﬁCOMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND 
INSIDER PARTICIPATIONﬂ of the Bancorp™s Proxy Statement 

for the 2014 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. 
 ITEM 12. SECURITY OW
NERSHIP OF CERTAIN 
BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND 
RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
 Security ownership information of certain beneficial owners and 
management is incorporated herein by reference under the 

captions ﬁCERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS,ﬂ ﬁELECTION 

OF DIRECTORS,ﬂ  ﬁCOMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND 

ANALYSISﬂ and ﬁCOMPENSATION OF NAMED 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORSﬂ of the Bancorp™s 

Proxy Statement for the 2014 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  
The information required by this item concerning Equity 
Compensation Plan information is included in Note 24 of the 

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED 

TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
 The information required by this item is incorporated herein by 
reference under the captions ﬁCERTAIN TRANSACTIONSﬂ, 

ﬁELECTION OF DIRECTORSﬂ, ﬁCORPORATE 

GOVERNANCEﬂ and ﬁBOARD OF DIRECTORS, ITS 

COMMITTEES, MEETINGS AND FUNCTIONSﬂ of the 

Bancorp™s Proxy Statement for the 2014 Annual Meeting of 

Shareholders.
   ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND 

SERVICES 
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by 
reference under the caption ﬁPRINCIPAL INDEPENDENT 

EXTERNAL AUDIT FIRM FEESﬂ of the Bancorp™s Proxy 
Statement for the 2014 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
   PART IV
 ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT 

SCHEDULES 
PagesPublic Accounting Firm 87
Fifth Third Bancorp and Subsidia
ries Consolidated Financial 
Statements 
88-92
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 93-
171 The schedules for the Bancorp and its subsidiaries are omitted 
because of the absence of conditions under which they are 

required, or because the information is set forth in the 

Consolidated Financial Statements or the notes thereto.  
 The following lists the Exhibits to the Annual Report on Form 10-K.
2.1 Master Investment Agreement (e
xcluding exhibits and schedules) 
dated as of March 27, 2009 and amended as of June 30, 2009, among 

Fifth Third Bank, Fifth Third Fi
nancial Corporation, Advent-Kong 
Blocker Corp., FTPS Holding, LL
C and Fifth Third Processing 
Solutions, LLC. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Current 

Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 2, 2009.  
3.1 Amended Articles of Incorpora
tion of Fifth Third Bancorp, as 
amended. 
3.2 Code of Regulations of Fifth 
Third Bancorp, as Amended as of 
September 18, 2012. Incorporated by
 reference to the Registrant™s 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on 

September 21, 2012.     
4.1 Junior Subordinated Indenture, 
dated as of March 20, 1997 between 
Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmingt
on Trust Company, as Debenture 
Trustee.  Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Current Report on 

Form 8-K filed with the Secur
ities and Exchange Commission on 
March 26, 1997. 
4.2 Indenture, dated as of May 23,
 2003, between Fifth Third Bancorp 
and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee.  Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant™s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Co
mmission on May 22, 2003.  
4.3 Global security representing Fifth Third Bancorp™s $500,000,000 
4.50% Subordinated Notes due 2018.  Incorporated by reference to 
Registrant™s Current Report on Form 
8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on May 22, 2003.  
4.4 First Supplemental Indenture, 
dated as of December 20, 2006, 
between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as 

Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual Report on 
Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.  
4.5 Global security representing Fifth Third Bancorp™s $500,000,000 
5.45% Subordinated Notes due 2017.  Incorporated by reference to 
Registrant's Annual Report on Form 
10-K filed for the fiscal year 
ended December 31, 2006.  
4.6 Global security representing Fifth Third Bancorp™s $250,000,000 
Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 
due 2016.  Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the 

fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.  
4.7 First Supplemental Indenture da
ted as of March 30, 2007 between 
Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee, to 
the Junior Subordinated Indenture 
dated as of May 20, 1997 between 
Fifth Third and the Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed w
ith the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on March 30, 2007.  
4.8 Global security dated as of March 4, 2008 representing Fifth Third 
Bancorp™s $500,000,000 8.25% 
Subordinated Notes due 2038. 
Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 

10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2008.  (1)  
4.9 Indenture for Senior Debt Secu
rities dated as of April 30, 2008 
between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as 

trustee.  Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Current Report on 
Form 8-K filed with the Secur
ities and Exchange Commission on 
May 6, 2008.  
 ` 184  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 4.10 Supplemental Indenture dated as
 of January 25, 2011 between Fifth 
Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee, to the 
Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 
between Fifth Third and the Trustee. 
Incorporated by reference to the 
Registrant™s Current Report on Form 
8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on January 25, 2011. 
4.11 Global Security dated as of Ja
nuary 25, 2011 representing Fifth Third 
Bancorp™s $500,000,000 3.625% Senior Notes due 2016. 
Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Current Report on Form 
8-K filed with the Securities a
nd Exchange Commission on January 
25, 2011. (2)  
4.12 Second Supplemental Indenture da
ted as of March 7, 2012 between 
Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington 
Trust Company, as Trustee, to 
the Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 
between Fifth Third and the Trustee. 
Incorporated by reference to the 
Registrant™s Current Report on Form 
8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on March 7, 2012. 
4.13 Global Security dated as of 
March 7, 2012 representing Fifth Third 
Bancorp™s $500,000,000 3.500% Senior Notes due 2022. 
Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Current Report on Form 

8-K/A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on 
March 7, 2012. 
4.14 Deposit Agreement dated May 16, 2013, between Fifth Third 
Bancorp, as issuer, Wilmington Trust, National Association, as 
depositary and calculation agent, Am
erican Stock Transfer & Trust 
Company, LLC, as transfer agent and registrar, and the holders from 

time to time of the depositary
 receipts issued thereunder.  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with
 the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on May 16, 2013.  
4.15 Form of Certificate Representi
ng the 5.10% Fixed-to-Floating Rate 
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred St
ock, Series H, of Fifth Third 
Bancorp. Incorporated by reference 
to Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant™s 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed w
ith the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on May 16, 2013.  
4.16 Form of Depositary Receipt fo
r the 5.10% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series H, of Fifth Third 
Bancorp.  Incorporated by reference 
to Exhibit 4.4 of the Registrant™s 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed wi
th the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on May 16, 2013. 
4.17 Global Security dated as of 
November 20, 2013 representing Fifth 
Third Bancorp™s $500,000,000 4.30%
 Subordinated Notes due 2024. 
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on November 20, 2013. 
4.18 Deposit Agreement dated Decemb
er 9, 2013, between Fifth Third 
Bancorp, as issuer, Wilmington Trust, National Association, as 
depositary and calculation agent, Am
erican Stock Transfer & Trust 
Company, LLC as transfer agent and registrar, and the holders from 
time to time of the depositary
 receipts issued thereunder.  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant™s Current 

Report on Form 8-K filed with
 the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on December 9, 2013.  
4.19 Form of Certificate Representi
ng the 6.625% Fixed-to-Floating Rate 
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series I, of Fifth Third 
Bancorp. Incorporated by reference 
to Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant™s 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed w
ith the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on December 9, 2013.  
4.20 Form of Depositary Receipt fo
r the 6.625% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series I, of Fifth Third 

Bancorp.  Incorporated by reference 
to Exhibit 4.4 of the Registrant™s 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed wi
th the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on December 9, 2013. 
10.1 Fifth Third Bancorp Unfunded 
Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-
Employee Directors, as Amended 
and Restated. Incorporated by 
reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant™s Quarterly Report on 

Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013. *  
10.2 Indenture effective November 19,
 1992 between Fifth Third Bancorp, 
Issuer and NBD Bank, N.A., Trustee.
  Incorporated by reference to 
Registrant™s Current Report on Form
 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on November 18, 1992 and as Exhibit 4.1 to 
the Registrant™s Registration Stat
ement on Form S-3, Registration 
No. 33-54134. 
10.3 Fifth Third Bancorp Master Pr
ofit Sharing Plan, as Amended and 
Restated. Incorporated by referenc
e to the Registrant™s Annual Report 
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.* 
10.4 First Amendment to Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing Plan, 
as Amended and Restated. Incor
porated by reference to the 
Registrant™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2011.*  
10.5 Second Amendment to Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing 
Plan, as Amended and Restated. Inco
rporated by reference to Exhibit 
10.7 of the Registrant™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 

ended December 31, 2012.*  
10.6 Third Amendment to Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing Plan, 
as Amended and Restated. Incorporat
ed by reference to Exhibit 10.8 
of the Registrant™s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter 
ended June 30, 2013.*  
10.7 Fourth Amendment to Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing 
Plan, as Amended and Restated.* 
10.8 Fifth Third Bancorp Incentive Compensation Plan. Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant™s Proxy St
atement dated February 19, 2004.* 
10.9 Fifth Third Bancorp 2008 Incentive Compensation Plan. Incorporated 
by reference to the Registrant™s Proxy Statement dated March 6, 
2008.* 
10.10  Fifth Third Bancorp 2011 Incentive Compensation Plan. Incorporated 
by reference to the Registrant™s Proxy Statement dated March 10, 
2011.*  
10.11 Amended and Restated Fifth 
Third Bancorp 1993 Stock Purchase 
Plan.  Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.* 
10.12 Fifth Third Bancorp Non-qualif
ied Deferred Compensation Plan, as 
Amended and Restated.    
10.13 Fifth Third Bancorp Stock Option 
Gain Deferral Plan.  Incorporated 
by reference to Registrant™s Proxy Statement dated February 9, 

2001.*  
10.14 Amendment No. 1 to Fifth Third 
Bancorp Stock Option Gain Deferral 
Plan.  Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Current Report on 

Form 8-K filed with the Secur
ities and Exchange Commission on 
May 26, 2006. *  
10.15 Notice of Grant of Performance Units and Award Agreement.  
Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Annual Report on Form 10-
K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. *  
10.16 Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock and Award Agreement (for 
Executive Officers).  Incorporated 
by reference to Registrant™s 
Annual Report on Form 10-K filed 
for the fiscal year ended 
December 31, 2004. *  
10.17 Notice of Grant of Stock Appreci
ation Rights and Award Agreement.  
Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Annual Report on Form 10-
K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. *  
10.18 Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock and Award Agreement (for 
Directors).  Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Annual Report 
on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. *  
10.19 Amended and Restated First Na
tional Bankshares of Florida, Inc. 
2003 Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to First National 
Bankshares of Florida, Inc.™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
year ended December 31, 2003. *   
10.20 Form of Executive Agreement effective December 31, 2008, between 
Fifth Third Bancorp and Kevin T. Kabat, Robert A. Sullivan and 
Greg D. Carmichael. Incorporated
 by reference to Registrant™s 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed w
ith the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on December 31, 2008. * 
10.21  Form of Executive Agreement effective December 31, 2008, between 
Fifth Third Bancorp and Mary E. Tuuk. Incorporated by reference to 
Registrant™s Current Report on Form 
8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on December 31, 2008. *  
10.22 Form of Executive Agreement effective February 3, 2014, between 
Fifth Third Bancorp and Tayfun Tuzun.  Incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 10.1 to Registrant™s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with 

the Securities and Exchange Co
mmission on February 7, 2014.* 
10.23 Form of Executive Agreement effective February 3, 2014, between 
Fifth Third Bancorp and Frank R. Forrest.  Incorporated by reference 
to Exhibit 10.2 to  Registrant™s Current Report on Form 8-K filed 

with the Securities and Exchange
 Commission on February 7, 2014.* 
10.24    Form of Amended Executive 
Agreement effective January 19, 2012, 
between Fifth Third Bancorp and Da
niel T. Poston. Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant™s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Comm
ission on January 24, 2012. * 
  185  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 10.25 Warrant dated June 30, 2009 issued by Vantiv Holding, LLC to Fifth 
Third Bank. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Schedule 

13D filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012.  
10.26 Second Amended & Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement 
(excluding certain exhibits) dated as
 of March 21, 2012 by and among 
Vantiv, Inc., Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC, Vantiv Holding, 
LLC and each person who becomes a member after March 21, 2012. 
Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Schedule 13D filed with 

the Commission on April 2, 2012.  
10.27 Amendment and Restatemen
t Agreement and Reaffirmation 
(excluding certain schedules) dated 
as of June 30, 2009 among Fifth 
Third Processing Solutions, LLC, FTPS Holding, LLC, Card 
Management Company, LLC, Fift
h Third Holdings, LLC and Fifth 
Third Bank. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Current 

Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 2, 2009. 
10.28 Registration Rights Agreement 
dated as of March 21, 2012 by and 
among Vantiv, Inc., Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC, JPDN 

Enterprises, LLC and certain stockholders of Vantiv, Inc. 
Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Schedule 13D filed with 
the Commission on April 2, 2012. 
10.29 Exchange Agreement dated as of March 21, 2012 by and among 
Vantiv, Inc., Vantiv Holding, LLC, Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, 
LLC and such other holders of Class B Units and Class C Non-Voting 

Units that are from time to time pa
rties of the Exchange Agreement. 
Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Schedule 13D filed with 
the Commission on April 2, 2012. 
10.30 Recapitalization Agreement da
ted as of March 21, 2012 by and 
among Vantiv, Inc., Vantiv Holding, LLC, Fifth Third Bank, FTPS 
Partners, LLC, JPDN Enterprises, 
LLC and certain stockholders of 
Vantiv, Inc. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Schedule 

13D filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012.  
10.31 Description of Vantiv, Inc. 
Director Compensation for Greg D. 
Carmichael. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 of the 

Registrant™s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
March 31, 2012. On May 10, 2012, Daniel T. Poston was elected as a 
Class B Director of Vantiv, In
c. Mr. Poston is subject to a 
substantially similar compensation arrangement as described in 
Exhibit 10.8 of the Registrant™s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for 
the quarter ended March 31, 2012.* 
10.32 Stock Appreciation Right Award Agreement. Incorporated by 
reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Registrant™s Quarterly Report on 
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013.* 
10.33 Performance Share Award Agreem
ent. Incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 10.3 of the Registrant™s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for 
the quarter ended June 30, 2013.* 
10.34 Restricted Stock Award Agreement (for Directors). Incorporated by 
reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Registrant™s Quarterly Report on 
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013.* 
10.35 Restricted Stock Award Agreement (for Executive Officers). 
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Registrant™s 
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013.* 
10.36 Separation Agreement dated Ju
ly 25, 2013 between Paul Reynolds 
and Fifth Third Bancorp.  Inco
rporated by reference to the 
Registrant™s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission 
on July 30, 2013.* 
10.37 Master Confirmation, as supplemented by a Supplemental 
Confirmation, for accelerated share repurchase transaction dated 
November 13, 2013 between Fifth 
Third Bancorp and Deutsche Bank 
AG, London Branch** 
10.38 Master Confirmation, as supplemented by a Supplemental 
Confirmation, for accelerated share repurchase transaction dated 

December 10, 2013 between Fifth Th
ird Bancorp and Deutsche Bank 
AG, London Branch** 
12.1 Computations of Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.  

12.2 Computations of Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to Combined Fixed 
Charges and Preferred Stock Dividend Requirements.  
21 Fifth Third Bancorp Subsidiaries, as of December 31, 2014.  

23 Consent of Independent Register
ed Public Accounting Firm-Deloitte 
& Touche LLP.  
31(i) Certification Pursuant to Secti
on 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002 by Chief Executive Officer.  
31(ii) Certification Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002 by Chief Financial Officer.  
32(i) Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted 
Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief 
Executive Officer.  
32(ii) Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted 
Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief 

Financial Officer.  
101 Interactive data files pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T: (i) the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) 
the Consolidated Statements of 
Income, (iii) the Consolidated Stat
ements of Comprehensive Income 
(iv) the Consolidated Statements
 of Changes in Equity, (v) the 
Consolidated Statements of Cash
 Flows, and (vi) the Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements 
tagged as blocks of text and in 
detail.  
 (1)
 Fifth Third Bancorp also entered into
 an identical security on March 4, 
2008 representing an additional $500,000,000 of its 8.25% Subordinated 
Notes due 2038.  
(2) Fifth Third Bancorp also entered in
to an identical security on January 25, 
2011 representing an additional $500,000,000 of its 3.625% Senior Notes 

due 2016. 
  
*    Denotes management contract or
 compensatory plan or arrangement. **  An application for confid
ential treatment for selected portions of this 
exhibit has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  ` 186  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 SIGNATURES 
 Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused 

this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto 

duly authorized. 

 FIFTH THIRD BANCORP 
Registrant 
 /s/ Kevin T. Kabat Kevin T. Kabat 
Vice Chairman and CEO 
Principal Executive Officer 

February 24, 2014 

 
Pursuant to requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 

this report has been signed on February 24, 2014 by the 

following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the 

capacities indicated. 

  OFFICERS
:  /s/ Kevin T. Kabat Kevin T. Kabat 
Vice Chairman and CEO 
Principal Executive Officer 

 /s/ Tayfun Tuzun 
Tayfun Tuzun 
Executive Vice President and CFO 
Principal Financial Officer 

 /s/ Mark D. Hazel 
Mark D. Hazel  
Senior Vice President and Controller 
Principal Accounting Officer 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
DIRECTORS: 
 /s/ William M. Isaac 
William M. Isaac 
Chairman  
 /s/ James P. Hackett 
James P. Hackett Lead Director  /s/ Nicholas K. Akins 
Nicholas K. Akins 
 /s/ Darryl F. Allen 
Darryl F. Allen  /s/ B. Evan Bayh III 
B. Evan Bayh III 
 /s/ Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr. 
Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr. 
 /s/ Emerson L. Brumback 
Emerson L. Brumback 
 /s/ Gary R. Heminger 
Gary R. Heminger  /s/ Jewell D. Hoover 
Jewell D. Hoover 
 /s/ Kevin T. Kabat Kevin T. Kabat 
 /s/ Mitchel D. Livingston, Ph.D. 
Mitchel D. Livingston, Ph.D. 
 /s/ Michael B. McCallister 
Michael B. McCallister  /s/ Hendrik G. Meijer 
Hendrik G. Meijer 
 /s/ John J. Schiff, Jr. 
John J. Schiff, Jr. 
 /s/ Marsha C. Williams 
Marsha C. Williams CONSOLIDATED TEN YEAR COMPARISON 
 187  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 AVERAGE ASSETS ($ IN MILLIONS) 
     Interest-Earning Assets  
              Year  Loans and Leases 
Federal 
Funds Sold (a)
   Interest-Bearing 
Deposits in Banks(a)
   Securities 
  Total  
  Cash and Due 
from Banks  
Other 
Assets  Total Average 
Assets  2013 
$  89,093 
  1   2,416 
   16,444 
  $  107,954 
     2,482 
   15,053
$  123,732 
  2012 
   84,822 
   2   1,493 
   15,319 
    101,636 
     2,355 
   15,695
  117,614 
  2011 
   80,214 
   1   2,030 
   15,437 
    97,682 
     2,352 
   15,335
  112,666 
  2010 
   79,232 
   11
   3,317 
   16,371 
    98,931 
     2,245 
   14,841
  112,434 
  2009 
   83,391 
   12
   1,023 
   17,100 
    101,526 
     2,329 
   14,266
  114,856 
  2008 
   85,835 
   438
   183 
   13,424 
    99,880 
     2,490 
   13,411
  114,296 
  2007 
   78,348 
   257
   147 
   11,630 
    90,382 
     2,275 
   10,613
  102,477 
  2006 
   73,493 
   252
   144 
   20,910 
    94,799 
     2,477 
   8,713
  105,238 
  2005 
   67,737 
   88
   113 
   24,806 
    92,744 
     2,750 
   8,102
  102,876 
  2004 
   57,042 
   120
   195 
   30,282 
    87,639 
     2,216 
   5,763
  94,896 
  AVERAGE DEPOSITS AND SHORT-TERM
 BORROWINGS ($ IN MILLIONS) 
                    Deposits           Year   Demand 
Interest Checking  
Savings  Money Market Other 
Time  
Certificates 
$100,000 and 
Over 
Foreign 
Office   Total  
Short-Term 
Borrowings
 Total  
2013 
  $  29,925 
   23,582 
   18,440 
   9,467 
  3,760
  6,339 
   1,518
  $  93,031 
   3,527 
  $  96,558 
  2012 
     27,196 
   23,096 
   21,393 
   4,903 
  4,306
  3,102 
   1,555
    85,551 
   4,806 
    90,357 
  2011 
     23,389 
   18,707 
   21,652 
   5,154 
  6,260
  3,656 
   3,497
   82,315 
   3,122 
   85,437 
  2010 
     19,669 
   18,218 
   19,612 
   4,808 
  10,526
  6,083 
   3,361
    82,277 
   1,926 
    84,203 
  2009 
     16,862 
   15,070 
   16,875 
   4,320 
  14,103
  10,367 
   2,265
    79,862 
   6,980 
    86,842 
  2008 
     14,017 
   14,191 
   16,192 
   6,127 
  11,135
  9,531 
   4,220
    75,413 
   10,760 
    86,173 
  2007 
     13,261 
   14,820 
   14,836 
   6,308 
  10,778
  6,466 
   3,155
    69,624 
   6,890 
    76,514 
  2006 
     13,741 
   16,650 
   12,189 
   6,366 
  10,500
  5,795 
   3,711
    68,952 
   8,670 
    77,622 
  2005 
     13,868 
   18,884 
   10,007 
   5,170 
  8,491
  4,001 
   3,967
    64,388 
   9,511 
    73,899 
  2004 
     12,327 
   19,434 
   7,941 
   3,473 
  6,208
  2,403 
   4,449
    56,235 
   13,539 
    69,774 
  INCOME ($ IN MILLIONS, 
EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) 
                                                   Per Share
(b)
                                               Originally Reported
 Year    Interest Income  Interest Expense  
Noninterest 
Income  Noninterest 
Expense 
Net Income (Loss) 
Available to Common 
Shareholders  
Earnings 
Diluted Earnings  
Dividends Declared  
Earnings 
 Diluted Earnings 
2013 
  $ 3,973 
  412 
   3,227 
   3,961 
   1,799 
   2.05 
   2.02 
  0.47 
2.05
  $2.02 
  2012 
     4,107 
  512 
   2,999 
   4,081 
   1,541 
   1.69 
   1.66 
  0.36 
 1.69
    1.66 
  2011 
     4,218 
  661 
   2,455 
   3,758 
   1,094 
   1.20 
   1.18 
   0.28 
 1.20
   1.18 
  2010 
     4,489 
   885 
   2,729 
   3,855 
   503 
   0.63 
   0.63 
   0.04 
 0.63
    0.63 
  2009 
     4,668 
   1,314 
   4,782 
   3,826 
   511 
   0.73 
   0.67 
   0.04 
 0.73
    0.67 
  2008 
     5,608 
   2,094 
   2,946 
   4,564 
   (2,180)
   (3.91)
   (3.91)
   0.75 
 (3.94)
    (3.94)
  2007 
     6,027 
   3,018 
   2,467 
   3,311 
   1,075 
   1.99 
   1.98 
   1.70 
 2.00
    1.99 
  2006 
     5,955 
   3,082 
   2,012 
   2,915 
   1,188 
   2.13 
   2.12 
   1.58 
 2.14
    2.13 
  2005 
     4,995 
   2,030 
   2,374 
   2,801 
   1,548 
   2.79 
   2.77 
   1.46 
 2.79
    2.77 
  2004 
     4,114 
   1,102 
   2,355 
   2,863 
   1,524 
   2.72 
   2.68 
   1.31 
 2.72
    2.68 
  MISCELLANEOUS AT DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
            
          Bancorp Shareholders' Equity          
Year Common 
Shares 
Outstanding    
Common 
Stock  
Preferred 
Stock  
Capital Surplus  Retained 
Earnings 
Accumulated 
Other 
Comprehensive 
Income  Treasury 
Stock   Total  
Book Value Per Share  
Allowance for 
Loan and Leases Losses 
2013    855,305,745   $ 2,051    1,034    2,561    10,156  82    (1,295)  $ 14,589    15.85   $ 1,582  
2012    882,152,057 
     2,051 
  398 
   2,758 
   8,768 
 375 
   (634)
    13,716 
   15.10 
    1,854  
2011    919,804,436    2,051   398    2,792    7,554  470    (64)   13,201    13.92    2,255  

2010    796,272,522      1,779    3,654    1,715    6,719   314    (130)    14,051    13.06     3,004  

2009    795,068,164      1,779    3,609    1,743    6,326   241    (201)    13,497    12.44     3,749  

2008    577,386,612      1,295    4,241    848    5,824   98    (229)    12,077    13.57     2,787  

2007    532,671,925      1,295    9    1,779    8,413   (126)   (2,209)    9,161    17.18     937  

2006    556,252,674      1,295    9    1,812    8,317   (179)   (1,232)    10,022    18.00     771  

2005    555,623,430      1,295    9    1,827    8,007   (413)   (1,279)    9,446    16.98     744  

2004    557,648,989      1,295    9    1,934    7,269   (169)   (1,414)    8,924    15.99     713  
(a) Federal funds sold and interest-bearing deposits in banks are co
mbined in other short-term investments in the Consolidated Fina
ncial Statements.  
(b) Adjusted for accounting guidance related to the calculation of 
earnings per share, which was adopted retroactively on January 1
, 2009.  
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS 
 188  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 FIFTH THIRD BANCORP DIRECTORS
 William M. Isaac, Chairman 
Senior Managing Director-Global 
Head of Financial Institutions  

FTI Consulting 
 James P. Hackett, Lead 
Director 

CEO & Director 
Steelcase, Inc.
 Nicholas K. Akins 
President & CEO 
American Electric Power Company 
 
Darryl F. Allen 

Retired Chairman 
President & CEO 
Aeroquip-Vickers, Inc. 
B. Evan Bayh III 
Partner 

McGuireWoods LLP  
 Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr. 

President 
B.F. Companies Emerson L. Brumback 
Retired President & COO 

M&T Bank
 Gary R. Heminger 
President, CEO & Director 
Marathon Petroleum Corporation
 Jewell D. Hoover Principal & Bank Consultant 
Hoover and Associates,
 LLC 
Kevin T. Kabat 
Vice Chairman & CEO 
Fifth Third Bancorp Mitchel D. Livingston, Ph.D. 
Retired Vice President for Student 

Affairs & Chief Diversity Officer  
University of Cincinnati 
Michael B. McCallister 
Retired Chairman & CEO 
Humana Inc.  

 
Hendrik G. Meijer Co-Chairman, Director 
& Co-CEO Meijer, Inc.
 John J. Schiff, Jr. 
Chairman of the Executive 

Committee & Director 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation  
 
Marsha C. Williams 

Retired Senior Vice President & 
Chief Financial Officer  
Orbitz Worldwide, Inc. 

 
DIRECTORS EMERITI  
Philip G. Barach 
John F. Barrett 
J. Kenneth Blackwell 

Milton C. Boesel, Jr. 
Douglas G. Cowan 
Thomas L. Dahl 

Ronald A. Dauwe 

Gerald V. Dirvin 
Thomas B. Donnell 
Nicholas M. Evans 

Richard T. Farmer 

Louis R. Fiore 
John D. Geary 
Ivan W. Gorr 

Joseph H. Head, Jr. 

Allen M. Hill 
William J. Keating 
Jerry L. Kirby 
Robert L. Koch II 

Kenneth W. Lowe 
Robert B. Morgan 
Michael H. Norris 
David E. Reese 

James E. Rogers George A. Schaefer, Jr. 
Donald B. Shackelford 

David B. Sharrock 

Stephen Stranahan 
Dennis J. Sullivan, Jr. 
Dudley S. Taft 

Alton C. Wendzel 

 FIFTH THIRD BANCORP OFFICERS
 Kevin T. Kabat 
Vice Chairman & CEO 
Greg D. Carmichael 
President &  Chief Operating Officer 
 
Steven Alonso 

Executive Vice President  
 Frank R. Forrest 
Executive Vice President,  

Chief Risk and Credit Officer 
 Mark D. Hazel 
Senior Vice President & 
Controller James R. Hubbard 
Senior Vice President & 

Chief Legal Officer 
Gregory L. Kosch 
Executive Vice President 
James C. Leonard 
Senior Vice President & Treasurer 
Daniel T. Poston 
Executive Vice President &  

Chief Strategy and Administrative 
Officer 
 
Joseph R. Robinson 

Executive Vice President & 

Chief Information Officer  
Robert A. Sullivan 
Senior Executive Vice President 
Teresa J. Tanner 
Executive Vice President & 
Chief Human Resources Officer 
Mary E. Tuuk Executive Vice President of 

Corporate Services and Board 
Secretary 
 Tayfun Tuzun 

Executive Vice President & 

Chief Financial Officer AFFILIATE AND 
MARKET PRESIDENTS  

Donald  Abel, Jr. 

David A. Call 
John N. Daniel 
Karen Dee 

David Girodat 

Shawn Hagan 
Thomas Heiks 
Nancy H. Huber  

Julie Hughes 

Jerry Kelsheimer 
Randolph Koporc 
Robert W. LaClair 

Brian Lamb Ralph S. Michael III  
Jordan A. Miller, Jr. 

Thomas Partridge Robert A. Sullivan 
Michelle L. VanDyke 

Thomas G. Welch, Jr. 

 FIFTH THIRD BANCORP BOARD 

COMMITTEES 

Finance Committee William M. Isaac, Chair   
Emerson L. Brumback 

James P. Hackett 

Gary R. Heminger 
Kevin T. Kabat  
 
Audit Committee 

Darryl F. Allen, Chair 
Emerson L. Brumback 
Jewell D. Hoover 
Michael B. McCallister 

Marsha C. Williams 
 Human Capital and 

Compensation Committee 

Gary R. Heminger, Chair 
Emerson L. Brumback 
Mitchel D. Livingston, Ph. D. 

Hendrik G. Meijer 
Marsha C. Williams 
 Nominating and Corporate 

Governance Committee 

James P. Hackett, Chair
 Darryl F. Allen 
B. Evan Bayh III 

Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr. 

 Risk and Compliance 
Committee 

Marsha C. Williams, Chair 

B. Evan Bayh III 
Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr. 
Jewell D. Hoover 
Hendrik G. Meijer 
 Trust Committee 
Mitchel D. Livingston, Ph.D., 

Chair 
Kevin T. Kabat  
John J. Schiff, Jr. 
  
˜

˜
˝
˜
˜

˜
˜

˜
˜

˙

˙

˙

˜

˙

˙

˙

˙

˙
†
˙
˙
€
˙
˙

˙
˙

˙

˙
˙

˙
˙
š
˙
˙

˙

˙

˙

˜
˘•
˙

˙

˙

˙

˙

˙
˙
˘˘
˙
˙

˙
˙

˙

˙
˙
•
˙
˙
•
˙
˙
•
˙

˙
˙

˙
˙

˙
˙

˙

˙
˙˙
˙˙
˙
˙
‹
˙

˜

˙

˙

˙

˙

˙
‹„
˙
˙
’…†‡‡’
˙
˙

˙
˙

˙

˙
˙
……†˘‡
˙
˙
–
˙
˙

˙
‚
˙
˜
…
˙
˙

˙
˙

˙

˙
˙˙
˙˙
˙
˙

˙
˙

˙
˙

˙
˙

˙

˙
˙
‡’•˘—
˙
˙

˙
˙

˙
‹Ž
˙
˙
…•…—
˙
˙

˙
˙
…š
˙
‹
˙
˙
•š—
˙
˙

˙
˙

˙
‹
˙
˙
€•’—
˙
˙

˙
˙

˙

˙
˙˙
˙˙
˙
˙
†’„
˙
˙

˙
˙

˙
˙

˙

˙
˙

˙
˙

˙
˙

˙
ˇ‹Ł’
˙
˙
˘†‡’š
˙
˙

˙
˙

˙
‹ﬁ
˙
˙
†€€š
˙
˙

˙
˙

˙

˙
˙

˙
˙
˙

˙
˙
˙

˙
˙
˙

˙
˙
˙

˛
˙

˙

˙

˙

˙

˙

˙
Œ
˙

˙

˙

˙
…›
˙

˙
•…
˙

˙

˙

˙

˙

˙
•…
˙
‹
˙
˙
…
˙˙
…–•
˙˙
•…
˙
˙

˙˙
•
˙˙
•…
˙

˙
˙
›
˙˙

˙˙
•…
˙
˙

˙˙
•›
˙˙
•…•–
˙

˙
˙

˙˙

˙˙
•…
˙
˙
š
˙˙
–
˙˙
•…•–
“‚”—ˇł
œ
¡

˙

š–˙Œ
š
˜¤¤š…
‹š•š•
˝
˜˚˙
˙

š–˙Œ

š
š…
‹

ﬁ†…
˚˛˝˝
˜¤¤
˙
‘
˙
‹
˙˙

˚˙
˙
†˝
€…ı
˙
˜
˙
¤˙¦
˜˜˜˚
˜˚˚˛˝˙
