2015  |  ANNUAL REPORT
Corporate Proﬁle
Fifth Third Bancorp
, established  
in 1858, is a diversiﬁed ﬁnancial 

services company headquartered  

in Cincinnati, Ohio.
  Corporate Locations (London and Torontes not shown)        
  Fifth Third Bank Regional Footprint as of Dec. 31, 2015
2015 STATISTICS
$141B 
 IN ASSETS
31CORPORATE 
OFFICE  
LOCATIONS
ESTABLISHED IN 
1858OPERATES
 1,254 FULL-SERVICE  
BANKING  
CENTERS2,593
ATMs
OH, KY, IN, MI, IL, 
FL, TN, WV, PA, MO, 
GA, NC95BANK MART® 
LOCATIONS 
Fifth Third operates four main businesses: 
Commercial Banking, Branch Banking, 

Consumer Lending, and Investment Advisors.
 Fifth Third also has an 18.3% interest in Vantiv 

Holding, LLC. Fifth Third is among the largest money 
 managers in the Midwest and, as of Dec. 31, 2015, 

had $297 billion in assets under care, of which it 

managed $26 billion for individuals, corporations 

and not-for-proﬁt organizations. Member FDIC. 
  Equal Housing Lender.  
A Message To  
Our Shareholders
Dear Fifth Third Shareholders,
It is my great pleasure to address you as chief executivth Third 
Bancorp. I am honored by the Board’s appointment to this post and I look 

forward to helping our Company deliver new solutions that will continue to 

raise the bar on the services we pro
vide as a trusted 
advisor to our 
retail and commercial customers.
Before turning to the highlights and challenges of 2015, and on behalf of 
everyone at Fifth Third, 
I want to thank Kevin Kabat for his 33 years of 
strong and steady leadership. 
Having served as CEO for more than eight  
of those years, Kevin deftly guided Fifth Third through the ﬁnancial crisis with a 
steadfast commitment to deliver shareholder value and support the communities 
we serve. I want to thank him for his guidance, his support and his friendship.
2015 was a transformative year for Fifth Third; a year in which we took bold  
steps to better navigate, manage and anticipate industry change as well as risk, 
and a year in which we rorts to keep the customer at the center  

of everything we do. 
The second half of the year was especially active as 
we worked to position 
Fifth Third for sustainable success through every economic cycle. 

For example, we welcomed several top-caliber executives who are already 
contributing to our talented leadership team. We 
chose to exit 
two of 
our retail markets to improvpetitiveness. And we resolved a number  
of long-standing regulatory matters, allowing us to take a strong step forward  
on the road ahead.
Given the grounding early in my career in technology and operations, you will 
not be surprised to hear that this road will include signiﬁcant technological 
milestones as well as a focus on process improvements, customer service and 

regulatory excellence. 
We are ﬁrmly committed to growing our businesses 
proﬁtably and responsibly.
2015 Performance
Our progress in 2015 across our businesses and markets provides a good start. 

Net income available to common shareholders was $1.6 billion and earnings 
per diluted share were $2.01. The results reﬂect a solid performance across each 
of our business lines, highlighted by revenue growth in mortgage banking, 
payments processing and wealth management. This contributed to a return on 

average assets of 1.2 percent, which is an increase from 2014 and higher than  
the average of our commercial bank peers. 
Return on average tangible common equity
1 of 13.5 percent was a 130-basis-point 
increase from 2014. Loan and lease balances grew by more than $2 billion in  
2015, as our continued focus on the commercial and industrial space remained  

strong. The growth in our commercial business was complemented by customer 
deposits, which increased by over $5 billion. We continued to recognize signiﬁcant  
value from our position in Vantiv and, as a result, generated over $500 million  
of after-tax cash proceeds after liquidating a portion of our position.
Greg D. Carmichael
President and Chief Executiv
1 Non-GAAP measure. For further information, see the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of MD&A.
FIFTH THIRD BANCORP 
2015 ANNUAL REPORT
    |    1Expenses were up in 2015 as we invested in our commitment to digitize our 
business and regulatory excellence. However, we improvatio 

by carefully managing the relationship between revenue and expenses. Line of 

business performance also improved. Mortgage banking revenue grew 12 percent 
due to more than $8 billion in originations. Wealth management revenue grew 
3 percent as asset management and securities and brokerage fees grew 3 and 

4 percent, respectively. Payment processing revenue increased 2 percent as we 

issued more credit cards to meet customer needs and grew our client base. We 
also continued to return capital to shareholders through a 2 percent dividend 
increase and the repurchase of over 42 million shares of common stock.
Driving Consistently Strong Results
In a world of higher and higher expectations—in terms of ser, 

results and returns—our own expectation for Fifth Third is to deliver a consistently 

strong performance throughout the cycle. To meet that expectation, we have 
added and enhanced talent and ramped up the level of accountability at all 
levels of the Company.
Our commitment to growing our businesses will be calibrated and 
measured, with a focus on proﬁtability, lower volatility and risk 

management. 
Resources will be allocated strategically and carefully managed. 
Additionally, we will seek relationships with the right risk/return proﬁles.  
This includes avoiding an over-reliance on credit income and building out more  
fee-driven relationships, speciﬁcally showcasing our suite of products across  

our consumer and core middle-market sectors.
The substantial investments we have made in people, products and services are 
already moving us toward a better mix of fee and credit income. By focusing on 

having a greater proportion of our revenue driven by fee-based products and 
services, we are supporting our goal to operate with lower volatility. We have also 
worked to reshape our business mix, again to manage the volatility inherent in 

certain, more cyclical industries. We regularly consider opportunities that could 

be additive to our existing businesses or could expand our existing lineup. 
We are very pleased to have assembled a leadership team that brings together 
signiﬁcant experience from within the industry and from companies that have  
served the industry. New additions include 
Lars Anderson, 
a seasoned 
commercial banker with a 30-year record of success at other large regional banks. 

Since the day he joined us as chief operugust, Lars has modeled 

the high level of work ethic and performance that is necessary for us to win.  
Tim Spence
 came to Fifth Third in September from Oliver Wyman, where he  
was a partner in the regional banking practice. As our new chief strat, 

Tim brings along substantial knowledge about our Company, our industry  

and the competitiv
Heather Russell Koenig,
 who also joined in September, has deep experience with regulatorairs at 
several other large ﬁnancial institutions. In addition to these great executives, 

we also have added senior talent in sales, credit and risk management 
over the last 18 months. 
These leaders, along with the highly capable and 
engaged individuals all across our Company, have the skill and energy to execute 

on our vision.A Message To Our Shareholders 
continued
Common Dividend Per Share
2011201220132014
$0.522015
$1.00
$0.75
$0.50
$0.25
$0$0.28
$0.36
$0.47
$0.51
Book Value Per Share
2011201220132014
2015
$20$0$4$8$12
$16
$13.92
$15.10
$15.85
$17.35
$18.48
Average Assets ($B)
2011201220132014
2015
$160
$0$40$80$120
$112.67
$117.61
$123.73
$131.94
$140.11
NPA Ratio
2011201220132014
2015
3.0
0.00.5
1.0
1.52.0
2.52.23%1.49%
1.10%
0.82%
0.70%Common Shares Outstanding
2011201220132014
2015
950700
750800850900920
882855
824
7852    |    FIFTH THIRD BANCORP 
2015 ANNUAL REPORT
Dealing Effectively with Uncertainty
Along with investing to grow and driv
our core businesses, we are also mindful of the challenges 
of operating threrent economic cycles to protect 

the value of the business. As you may know, interest rates  

have recently dominated discussion around bank earnings,  
and we continue to perform well in the current low 
interest rate environment. Our balance sheet is positioned  

very well and reﬂects our expectations for slowly rising 

interest rates, as our securities portfolio is structured  
with lower exposures to prepayments and re-pricing.  
At the same time, however, we have also maintained the  
ﬂexibility to adapt to an even lower rate environment in the event that the Fed takes  

a slower-than-expected approach. We believe this strategy will be pivotal to 
supporting a stable earnings stream in a continually uncertain rate environment.
In any environment, the keys to our future are steadfast: keep the 
customer at the center, operate with excellence, proactively manage 
risk and foster engagement among our teams.
Achieving Excellence in Risk Management and Operations
While we are constantly looking ahead, we are also focused on day-to-day operational 
 excellence while managing the risks that are inherent in the business of banking.  
As I mentioned earlier, we settled a few signiﬁcant regulatory matters in 2015 
and we were pleased to put these matters behind us. We are focused on ensuring 

that we meet or exceed our regulatory and compliance targets to avoid regulatory 

enforcement actions in the future. 
As the Dodd-Frank Act and other banking regulations takeect, we are gaining 
more clarity around the types of regulatory and compliance expectations we 
will be required to meet in the coming years. We have made the necessary 
investments to continue to meet these expectations and ensure that our risk 

management culture will be a competitive advantage going forward. 
Our commitment to risk management is not just about the bacrowly  
focused in support of regulatory and compliance areas. Our commitment is also 

a big driver of how we think about customer satisfaction as we strive to achieve 

service excellence. 
When we deliver on our operational duties, risks are 
mitigated, and both our customers and our Company win.
This means that whether a customer is standing in front of us or banking online, 
at the ATM or on the phone, he or she should have a great experience with  
Fifth Third. We need to make sure we do all we can, every time, to deliver from 

an operational standpoint. This will mitigate risk to the customer and to us, all 

while ensuring that every customer has a great overall experience at Fifth Third. 
Ultimately, we are proving to our customers that they can and should trust  
us to provide high-quality and highlvices that connect them with 

their goals.
  Our commitment to growing  
our businesses will be  

calibrated & measured, with a
  focus on proﬁtability,  

lower volatility and risk 

management.
FIFTH THIRD BANCORP 
2015 ANNUAL REPORT
    |    3Keeping Customers at the Center
Doing the right thing, the right way, is a core principle of our Company. We  
want to be the One Bank people most value and trust. To achieve this, we will 
remain focused on understanding and meeting customer needs; being clear  

and transparent; and delivering solutions when, and how they want to bank.  

We will look at processes through the lens of the customer and work to continually 
meet and exceed expectations. 
We know that by putting the customer  
at the center of everything we do, we will continue to create 

shareholder value.
With the right foundation in place, we are ﬁrmly focused on growing direct, 
proﬁtable relationships with our customers. Being a trusted advisor and taking 

care of our customers are vital to creating value for our franchise, and will require 

us to increase the pace of play across each of our businesses.
In the Consumer Bank, investments in technologyorts to 
develop and improve digital channels are essential to building these 

relationships. Customer demographics are changing, and by any measure, it’s 
clear that their comfort level with digital channels is growing. Digital channel 
experiences are generally more highly rated than traditional service channels 

and online services in retail and other categories are increasing expectations  

for access, transparency and speed. 
Digital channels are integral to the way people shop for, apply for and  
use ﬁnancial services and we are already using these tools to increase 
the number of customer touch points. 
This places a higher focus on 
customer-facing actions while helping to develop a consultative sales process  

in which we are the trusted advisor to our consumer customers. 
Late last year, we rolled out a new website with an enhanced look and feel  
to improve the customer experience, which is the most important factor in  

the ultimate success of digital deployment. As the frequency of digital contact 
is growing relative to physical contact, our investments have been increasingly 
moving to ensure and improve the quality of the experience. This also has led  

us to morective management of our brick and mortar branch network.  

These strategies will improve customer experience and take risks out of processes, 
A Message To Our Shareholders 
continued
4    |    FIFTH THIRD BANCORP 
2015 ANNUAL REPORT
all while allowing us to deliver services and solutions to 
our customers safelly through the channels 

they most prefer.
In the Commercial Bank, we are targeting high-
value customers with the right risk/reward 

balance. We have enhanced the capabilities available 
to our relationship managers so that they have the 
necessary tools to be assets to their customers, especially 
on the go. It is important that we monitor and consult 

on signiﬁcant macroeconomic trends to help beneﬁt 

commercial clients in a dynamic rate environment. By 
ering fast, seamless, convenient and ﬂexible solutions, 
we will earn respect from our customers by promoting trust and integrity as the 

valuable advantages to doing business with Fifth Third.
In the wealth management business, our investments in mobile 
enhancements and our convenient Life360 tool will connect our 

customers and advisors to more information faster, which will improve 

the quality of relationships.
 Our speciﬁc focus on intergenerational wealth 
transfer will help build long-term relationships driven by the value Fifth Third 
provides as a trusted advisor.
Over the last several years, we have also continued to grow our 
Payments and 
Commerce Solutions business,
 and I am enthused about the opportunities we 
have in this space. We are bringing value-added services to customers faster than 

the competition and are focused on this competitive advantage going forward. 
Through emerging products in mobile payments, digital sales and consulting 
tools, we continue to drive customer-centric innovations.
Overall, we are using technology to enhance our ability to be nimble 
and opportunistic in all aspects of our Company. 
While we will continue 
to have an intense focus on expenses in 2016, we have invested wisely in the 

digital space. Technology is transforming our industry through its impact on day-
to-day operations, its success in widening the delivery channels for products and 
services, and the value that data analytics provides. Our digital investments will 

set the stage for ongoing outperformance through all economic cycles.
  
 We will look at processes  

through the lens of 

the customer and work to 

continually meet and  

exceed expectations.
Digital channels are integral to the way people 
shop for, apply for and use ﬁnancial services  

and we are already using these tools to increase the 

number of customer touch points.
FIFTH THIRD BANCORP 
2015 ANNUAL REPORT
    |    5Improving the Lives of Customers and the Well-being  
of Communities
Fifth Third is committed to improving the lives of customers and the well-being 
of our communities. This commitment shows in our products, services and 

relationships, and it also shows in the way we step up and step together to 
positively impact the places where we live and work.
This long legacy of caring, which has been a hallmark of our Company,  
continued in 2015. 
Last August, for example, we announced that Fifth Third’s 
headquarters and Cincinnati region had held the most successful 
United Way 
campaign
 to date, raising more than $3 
million from employ
ee contributions alone. We provided roughly 800,000 meals to the hungry through 
Fifth Third 
Day 
celebrations in 2015 (5/3 on the calendar). 
In June, we received the prestigious Community Service Award from 
the Illinois Bankers Association (IBA)
 for our manorts to help the 
communities we serve, especially through our 
“Honoring Our Veterans” 
campaign. 
This campaign included providing veterans and military families 
with college scholarships, care packages, house remodeling, free pet adoptions,  

job coaching assistance and training for support dogs. It culminated on Veterans 

Day, when more than 200 veterans received either jobs or solid job leads at our 
ﬁrst-of-its-kind “Hiring Fair” for veterans.
Additionally, since our collaboration with 
Stand Up To Cancer (SU2C) 
began in 2013, Fifth Third has raised $6 million by providing opportunities for customers 
and community members to help in the ﬁght against this disease by donating  

to SU2C’s innovative research programs. 
We could not have this kind of community impact, nor could we deliver the 
ﬁnancial products and services that improve the lives of individual and families, 

without the dedication of our more than 18,000 
employees. 
Our employees are the face of  
Fifth Third. They also are the hands 

that put their neighbors in homes; help 

businesses launch, expand and operate; 
put kids through college and send workers 
to a secure retirement. 
I am proud to be  
part of this industry, this Company and this team. 

I look forward to the future with conﬁdence, 
optimism and great faith that Fifth Third will 
continue to make a positiverence in the  

lives of customers, communities, employees  
and shareholders.
 Sincerely,
Greg D. Carmichael
President and Chief Executiv
A Message To Our Shareholders 
continued
   I look forward to the  
future with conﬁdence,  

optimism & great faith  

that Fifth Third will continue  

to make a positiverence  

in the lives of customers,  

communities, employees  

and shareholders.
6    |    FIFTH THIRD BANCORP 
2015 ANNUAL REPORT
Full
-year 2015 net income available to common shareholders of 
 $1.6 billion increased 16 percent from 2014. Earnings per diluted
common share of $2.01 increased 21 
percent.
Results 
for both years included the beneﬁt to earnings related to our holding  
inVantiv. 
In 2015, after-tax Vantiv net gains were approximately 
$519 million (approximatel
y $0.64 per share), compared with net 
gains of $148 million (approximatel
y $0.17 per share) in 2014. We reduced our dire
ct owners
hip sta
ke and rea
lized signiﬁcant gains, and our remaining interest 
in Vantiv will continue to be a source o
f signiﬁcant future returns.
Our balance sheet is stron
g as we maintained our disci
plined approach to lendin
g and focused on areas that we believe have a compelling risk/return proﬁle. 
Average loans and leases increased to 
$93.3 billion, with a majority o
f the growth in commercial and industrial and commercial construction loans. 
Avera
ge securities increased
$5.2 billion as we worked toward an o
ptimalmix for the current and near-term rate and liquidity environment.
We also continued to 
grow hi
gh-value, low-cost transaction de
posits in 2015, 
with average balances increasing 6 percent 
from 2014.
We view the streng
th of our deposit franchise to be the driving force for proﬁtable balan
ce sheet growth in 
the coming years.
Full
-year net interest income declined 1 percent as we nearlyt 
$94 million dollars o
f revenue reduction 
from the changes made to our 
deposit 
advance
product that went into e
ect on Jan. 1, 2015. Excludin
g that, NII was u
p 1 percent.
Atyear-end, our li
quidit
y covera
ge ratio (LCR) was 116 
percent, w
hich excee
ds the Federa
l Banking Regu
lators’ LCR requirements
.Noninterest income increased 21 
percent from 2
014, reﬂectin
g thehighernet beneﬁt 
from our investment in Vantiv, partially o
set by charges associate
d with branc
h rationa
lization plans, and an 11 percent 
decline in corporate
banking revenue. Otherwise, 
fee income results were hi
ghlighted 
by mort
gagebanking net revenue and investment advisor
y fees. Throu
ghout the 
year, we
maintained our 
focus on expenses, and while total noninterest expense increase
d2 percent 
from 2014, we are drations that are 
largely fundingour investments in our risk and com
pliance infrastructur
e.Credit trends reﬂected the benign environment and our continued 
focus to
impro
ve our businesses and results. Full-year net charge-o
s decreased 22 percent, w
hile nonperformin
g assets declined 16 
percent from 
2014. Our covera
ge ratios remainsolid at 1.37 percent of loans and 252 percent of nonperform
ing loans. Overall, we have momentum in man
y of our cor
e businesses.  WeWe believe we 
are 
taking appropr
iate steps
 to be successfu
l today and toto position ourselves for 
long-term succes
s.  2015 Financial Review
Full-year net income 
available to  
common shareholders
INCREASED
 16%Average loans & leases
INCREASED TO
$93.3B
Average securities
INCREASED
$5.2BAverage  
transaction deposits 
INCREASED
6%At year-end, our  
LCR was
116%exceeding Federal 
requirementsNoninterest income
INCREASED
21%2015 HIGHLIGHTS
FIFTH THIRD BANCORP 
2015 ANNUAL REPORT
    |    7Consumer Lending
We proactively work 
with borrowers  

to explore options that 

make sense within 

their current ﬁnancial 

situation.  
2015 HIGHLIGHTS
Weer 
competitive rates with ﬂexible terms
 to help customers reach their goals. 
ers competitive 
rates with ﬂexible terms to help customers reach 

their goals, whether short- or long-term. 
In our 
consumer credit card business, 
we focus 
on acquiring and activating 
existing 
retail and 
small business customers to strengthen the total 

customer relationship. The recent creation of 
our Payments and Commerce Solutions division 
takes this strategy even further, allowing us to 

accelerate and deepen customer relationships. 
Our auto business is another important 
component of Consumer Lending, 
and it  
is a business that has remained stable in size 

throughout 2015. There is no shortage of 
opportunity to generate substantial auto loan 
growth, given the industry volume, but we believe 

we are sized right toectively manage risk and 
controls in this area. Fifth Third is one of the 
largest bank originators of indirect auto loans 

in the country, and we continue to value the 

relationships with our extensive dealer network 
across our 45-state indirect auto footprint.
Mortgage is the most cyclical of our 
businesses, 
and we have managed well through 
the most recent cycle. We have a fairly ﬂexible 
business model that can be adjusted quickly in 
response to the changing environment. Fifth 
Third is primarily an in-f
ootprint, direct 
and retail 
lender, though we also purchase loans through 

a correspondent channel. Weer home loans 

to our existing customers and new prospects, 
knowing that ideally, we can provide additional 
products and services beyond their home loan. 

Mortgage often opens the door to deeper, more 

proﬁtable relationships, and our One Bank 
approach to holistically serving the needs of 
customers is key to leveraging these opportunities.
Regardless of whether our credit customers 
come to us through card, auto, mortgage or 
other Consumer Lending areas, Fifth Third 

provides ample resources to simplify the process 

of obtaining a loan. We proactively work with 
borrowers to explore options that make sense 
within their current ﬁnancial situation. Our 

commitment to demonstrate better listening, 
better ideas and better solutions helps earn us 
the trust that creates value…value that lasts well 

beyond the life of the loan.  
$656M TOTAL REVENUE
$21B AVERAGE 
LOANS
8,717
DEALER  
INDIRECT AUTO 
LENDING  
NETWORK
$73B
MORTGAGE 
SERVICING 
PORTFOLIO
8    |    FIFTH THIRD BANCORP 
2015 ANNUAL REPORT
Branch Banking
Our mobile app and re-designed 
website makes it 
easier to 
bank where and when our 

customers prefer.
We continue to believe a 
strong Retail Bank
  is critical to the future of Fifth Third. 
Weer a complete suite of retail banking 
products and services, 
and our localized, high-touch service model allows us to connect 

with the unique and diverse areas of our 

footprint to create a more personal banking 
experience. Our branch network is fundamental 
to our success, as customers have indicated that 

convenience and branch proximity are still top 

factors in selecting a bank.
Our physical infrastructure complements 
our digitorts. 
Over the last several years,  
we have taken signiﬁcant action to re-engineer 
our retail operations to better meet the evolving 
needs of customers. As we announced in June, 

this work included changes to the size of our 
branch network. We are in the process of selling 
or consolidating 107 branches across our 

footprint. While our banking centers represent 
the physical manifestation of our brand in the 
community, our enhanced online and mobile 

presence is becoming an increasingly valued tool 

for our customers. 
Customers’ expectations for access, transparency 
and speed are quickly rising. Accordingly, 

we are prioritizing our investments to align 
with the demographic and technological 
changes that are reshaping these markets. 

The traditional lines acr
oss retail delivery 
channels are no longer well-deﬁned, and our 
investments will continue to integrate every 

touch point into a universal sales, service and 

marketing strategy. We believeorts 
toectively integrate digital technology in 
this fast-changing environment will not only 

improve the lives of our customers, but also will 
provide signiﬁcant shareholder value.  
2015 HIGHLIGHTS
$2.2B TOTAL REVENUE
$16.4B  AVERAGE 
 LOANS
$51.2B  AVERAGE 
 CORE  
 DEPOSITS
1.7M 
ONLINE  
BANKING  
CUSTOMERS
~1.2M MOBILE  
BANKING  
CUSTOMERS
FIFTH THIRD BANCORP 
2015 ANNUAL REPORT
    |    9Investment Advisors
We put more than 100 years 
of experience to work to help 

our clients 
protect, grow and 
manage their wealth.
We provide our clients with complete, powerful 
ﬁnancial solutions from 
one trusted advisor.
 Investment Advisors is comprised of four 
distinct businesses tailored to the unique 
needs of its customers. 
We put more than  
100 years of experience to work to help individuals, 

families, businesses, and institutional clients 

protect, grow, and manage their wealth.
• Fifth Third Private Bank
 serves the complex 
ﬁnancial needs of the Bank’s clients with teams 
of professionals dedicated to helping clients 
achieve their ﬁnancial goals.
• Fifth Third Securities
 helps individuals and families at every stage of their lives, 

ering retirement, investment and education 
planning, managed money, annuities and 
transactional brokerage services.  
• ClearArc Capital, Inc. 
provides asset 
management services to institutional clients.
• Fifth Third Institutional Services 
provides 
consulting, investment and record-keeping 

services for corporations, ﬁnancial institutions, 

foundations, endowments and not-for-proﬁt 
organizations. Products include retirement 
plans, endowment management, planned 

giving and global and domestic custody services. 
Our Investment Advisors business has become 
successful through helping clients over their 
lifetimes and becoming their trusted partner. 
Client behaviors, preferences and expectations 

are evolving alongside shifts in demographics.  

We are prioritizing our investments in recognition 
of these signiﬁcant changes. One such investment 
is in digital tools to help clients better manage 

their personal wealth and enhance their 

experience with us. 
By providing holistic advice, guidance and 
service, and focusing on the needs of our clients, 

Investment Advisors is poised to continue to 
deliver growth to Fifth Third.  
2015 HIGHLIGHTS
$546M TOTAL REVENUE
$2.8B AVERAGE 
LOANS
$26BASSETS UNDER 
MANAGEMENT
$9.4B
AVERAGE 
CORE  
DEPOSITS
$297B
ASSETS UNDER 
CARE10    |    FIFTH THIRD BANCORP 
2015 ANNUAL REPORT
Commercial Banking
Weer a variety of services  that 
can help your business succeed—no matter your industry.
Our commitment to 
business lending  
remains strong. 
In the Commercial Bank, we develop 
relationships with business, government, and 
professional customers through customized 
ﬁnancial solutions. With our focused 
segmentation strategy,
 we are targeting 
clients ranging in size from those with  
$20 million in annual revenue to some of the 

world’s largest companies. Our comprehensive 

and competitiverings span from traditional 
lending and depository products to global 
cash management, foreign exchange and 

international trade ﬁnance, derivatives and 

capital markets services, asset-based lending, 
real estate ﬁnance, public ﬁnance, commercial 
leasing, and syndicated ﬁnance.
This wide range of service and experience 
allows us to address our clients’ needs as our 

talented bankers become valued partners 

in our customers’ ﬁnancial success. We have 
seen the beneﬁts of our strategies in stronger 
partnerships with our customers and in the 

steady growth of this business. 
In 2015, our Commercial Bank produced 38 percent 
of Bancorp revenue
 and accounted for more 
than half of our loan balances. 
We are focused on sustaining the growth 
trajectory in this business by cultivating 

relationships that go well beyond traditional 

lending arrangements and that ﬁt within 
our risk appetite. We are focused on selecting 
high-value customers with the right risk/
reward balance. Our commitment to business 

lending remains strong. 
Our track record 
of success and ability to develop new 
capabilities sets Fifth Third apart from 
the competition. 
We have built specialized 
verticals and signiﬁcantly strengthened our 
credit underwriting by adding experienced 
talent in these areas as well. 
We stand ready to help businesses adapt to the 
new economy, drive innovation and growth, 
and access the working capital needed to 

meet their goals. We are conﬁdent we have 

the experience and knowledge to grow this 
business proﬁtably.  
2015 HIGHLIGHTS
$2.5B TOTAL REVENUE
$53B  AVERAGE 
 LOANS
$37.2B 
 AVERAGE 
 CORE  
 DEPOSITS
14,000 
CLIENTS
1,800 STRATEGIC 
VERTICAL  
CLIENTS
FIFTH THIRD BANCORP 
2015 ANNUAL REPORT
    |    11Our purpose is to 
improve lives
, and by 
extension, our communities. 
Community Giving
We are committed to serving our community 
by delivering signature programs that keep our 

customers at the center of everything we do.
Our alliance with 
Stand Up to Cancer  
(SU2C) hit a major milestone in 2015—the 
raising of $6 million for cancer research since 

our collaboration began in 2013. We helped  
to raise the funds through our SU2C credit  
and debit cards, regional SU2C Nights at minor 
league ballparks and an innovative social 
media campaign, which encouraged people  

to share stories about how they ﬁght cancer 
with the #howiﬁght hash tag. Fifth Third 
donated $1 to SU2C for each eligible post and 
more than 35,000 stories were shared.  
The Bank also expanded its unique collaboration 
with national employment solutions company, 
NextJob
, to help ﬁght against unemployment 
in the United States. In 2015, our outreach 

incering $1,000 scholarships to recent 
college graduates to get career coaching from 
NextJob experts.     
For more than 10 years, Fifth Third has worked  
to empower people through educational 
programs that equip people with the knowledge 
and tools they need
 to be 
ﬁnancially successful. 
Our Fifth Third Bank 
L.I.F.E. (Lives Improved 
through Financial Empowerment®) 
programs teach budgeting, saving and planning  
strategies for major life events like homeownership, 
 college funding and retirement.  
The Young Banker’s Club
®, our L.I.F.E. 
program for ﬁfth-graders, graduated more 
than 2,000 students in 2015. We took our 
sponsorship of 
Dave Ramsey’s Foundations 
in Personal Finance®
 curriculum into our 
ﬁfth consecutive year and into approximately 
1,800 schools. More than 800,000 students 

have gone through the program to date. 
Empower U®
, our program for adults, 
reached more employees within our business 
client base in 2015, as did our Fifth Third 
Financial Empowerment Mobiles, or 
eBuses
, which conducted more than 200 tours in 
over 100 cities. The eBuses are sted by Bank 
professionals who bring credit counseling, job 
search assistance, foreclosure prevention and 
homeownership help directly into underserved 

and minority neighborhoods.
We expanded our 
“Feeding Our Communities” 
initiative
 in 2015 where the fundraising 
and voluntorts of our employees helped 
to provide more than 800,000 meals and 
personal care items to those in need in our local 

neighborhoods. 
Veterans
, too, continued to receive our 
admiration and support. We provided NextJob 

scholarships for veterans looking to transition 
from their military career into a civilian role. 
We invested $220,000 with Rebuilding Together 
National to do 17 home rebuild projects for  
low-income veterans in our regional markets. 

We hosted job fairs, commemorative events and 
key sponsorships to give back and serve those 
who have served.
Finally, our innovative school-to-work transition 
program for people with disabilities, 
Project 
SEARCH®
, continued to positively impact the 
lives of student interns served at our three 
Project SEARCH campuses. We had 30 student 

interns in 2015. Further, the Bank hosted its 
annual Tor Project SEARCH golf outing 
and raised $151,000. Over the past 10 years,  
the Bank has helped raise more than $1 million 
in support of the program. 
Beyond our signature programs, we also 
invested directly into our communities. Our 
2015 corporate and employee donations to 

United Way 
were more than $7.8 million. 
We invested ovordable 
housing, historic preservation projects through 
the Fifth Third Community Development 
Corporation. We made more than $4 million 

in grants through the Fifth Third Foundation. 
These investments, and many others, helped  
to improve the lives of hundreds of thousands  

of people in the markets we serve.  
12    |    FIFTH THIRD BANCORP
 2015 ANNUAL REPORT
     2015 ANNUAL REPORT 
FINANCIAL CONTENTS 
 Glossary of Abbreviations and Acronyms 
14 
Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
 Selected Financial Data 
15 
Overview 
16 
Non-GAAP Financ
ial Measures 
21 
Recent Accounting Standards 
23 
Critical Accounting Policies   
23 
Risk Factors  
26 
Statements of Income Analysis 
35 
Business Segment Review 
42 
Fourth Quarter Review  
50 
Balance Sheet Analysis 
52 
Risk Management  
57 
Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
80 
Contractual Obligations 
and Other Commitments  
81 
Management™s Assessment as to the Effectiveness of Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
82 
Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
83 
Financial Statements 
 Consolidated Balance Sheets  
84 
Consolidated Statem
ents of Income  
85 
Consolidated Statements 
of Comprehensive Income 
86 
Consolidated Statements 
of Changes in Equity  
87 
Consolidated Statemen
ts of Cash Flows 
88 
    
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
   
Summary of Significant Accoun
ting and Reporting Policies
 89 Commitments, Contingent Li
abilities and Guarantees 132 
Supplemental Cash Flow Information
 100 Legal and Regulatory Proceedings 136 
Restrictions on Cash, Dividend
s and Other Capital Actions 100 Related Party Transactions 138 
Investment Securities 101 Income Taxes 140 

Loans and Leases 103 Retirement and Benefit Plans 142 

Credit Quality and the Allowance for Loan and Lease 
Losses 105 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 146 
Bank Premises and Equipment 114 Common, Preferred and Treasury Stock 147 

Operating Lease Equipment 115 Stock-Based Compensation 149 

Goodwill 116 Other Nonint
erest Income and Other Noninterest Expense 153 
Intangible Assets 116 Earnings Per Share 154 

Variable Interest Entities 117 Fair Value Measurements 155 

Sales of Receivables and Servicing Rights 120 Certai
n Regulatory Requirements
 and Capital Ratios 166 
Derivative Financial Instruments 122 Pa
rent Company Financ
ial Statements 167 
Other Assets 127 Business Segments 168 

Short-Term Borrowings 128
 Subsequent Event 170 
Long-Term Debt 129   
    Annual Report on Form 10-K
 171   
Consolidated Ten Year Comparison 
187   
Directors and Officers 
188   
Corporate Information 
   
 FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
This report contains statements that we believe are ﬁforward-look
ing statementsﬂ within the meanin
g of Section 27A of the Secur
ities Act of 1933, as amended, and Rule 175 promulgated thereunder, and Section 
21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 
3b-6 promulgated thereunder. These statements relate to our fi
nancial condition, results of operations, 
plans, objectives, future performance or 
business. They usually can be identified by the use of forward-looking language such as ﬁwill likely result,ﬂ ﬁmay,ﬂ ﬁare expec
ted to,ﬂ ﬁis anticipated,ﬂ ﬁestimate,ﬂ ﬁforecast,ﬂ ﬁprojected,ﬂ ﬁintends to,ﬂ or may include 
other similar words or phrases such as ﬁbelieves,ﬂ ﬁplans,ﬂ ﬁt
rend,ﬂ ﬁobjective,ﬂ ﬁc
ontinue,ﬂ ﬁremain,ﬂ or
 similar expressions,
 or future or conditional verbs such as ﬁwill,ﬂ ﬁwould,ﬂ ﬁshould,ﬂ ﬁcould,ﬂ ﬁmight,ﬂ 
ﬁcan,ﬂ or similar verbs. You should not place undue reliance on 
these statements, as they are subject to risks and uncertaintie
s, including but not limited to those set fort
h in the Risk Factors section of MD&A in 
this report. When considering these forwar
d-looking statements, you should keep in 
mind these risks and uncertainties, as well 
as any cautionary statements we may 
make. Moreover, you should treat these 
statements as speaking only as of the date they are made and ba
sed only on information then actually known to us. There are a n
umber of important factors that could cause future results to differ materially from 
historical performance and these forward-looking statements. Fact
ors that might cause such a difference include, but are not li
mited to: (1) general economic conditions and weakening in the economy, specifically 
the real estate market, either nationally or in the states in wh
ich Fifth Third, one or more acquired entities and/or the combi
ned company do business, are less favorable than expected; (2) deteriorating credit quality; 
(3) political developments, wars or other hostilities may disrup
t or increase volatility in securities markets or other economi
c conditions; (4) changes in the interest ra
te environment reduce interest margins; (5) 
prepayment speeds, loan origination and sale volumes, charge-o
ffs and loan loss provisions; (6) Fifth Third™s ability to mainta
in required capital levels and adequate sources of funding and liquidity; (7) maintaining 
capital requirements and adequate sources of funding and liquidity may limit Fifth Third™s operations and potential growth; (8)
 changes and trends in capital markets; (9) 
problems encountered by larger or similar 
financial institutions may adversely affect the banking industry 
and/or Fifth Third; (10) competitive pressures among depositor
y institutions increase significantly; (11) effects of critical accounting policies and 
judgments; (12) changes in accounting policies or procedures as
 may be required by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FA
SB) or other regulatory agencies; (13) legisl
ative or regulatory changes or actions, or 
significant litigation, adversely affect Fifth Third, one or more
 acquired entities and/or the combined company or the business
es in which Fifth Third, one or more acquired entities and/or the combined company 
are engaged, including the Dodd-Frank Wall St
reet Reform and Consumer Protection Act; (14) ability to maintain favorable rating
s from rating agencies; (15) fluctuation of Fifth Third™s stock price; (16) ability to 
attract and retain key personnel; (17) ability to receive dividend
s from its subsidiaries; (18) potentially dilutive effect of 
future acquisitions on current shareholders™ owners
hip of Fifth Third; (19) effects of accounting 
or financial results of one or more acquired entities; (20) di
fficulties from Fifth Third™s inve
stment in, relationship with, a
nd nature of the operations of Vantiv, LLC; (
21) loss of income from any sale or potential 
sale of businesses that could have an adverse effect on Fifth 
Third™s earnings and future growth; (22) difficulties in separati
ng the operations of any branches or other asse
ts divested; (23) inabi
lity to achieve expected 
benefits from branch consolidations and planned sales within de
sired timeframes, if at all; (24) ability to secure confidential
 information and deliver products and servi
ces through the use of computer systems and 
telecommunications networks; and (25) the impact of reputational ri
sk created by these developments on such matters as business
 generation and retention, funding and liquidity.
 GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
  14  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  Fifth Third Bancorp provides the following list of abbreviations an
d acronyms as a tool for the reader that are used in Managem
ent™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, th
e Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to Consolida
ted Financial 
Statements.  ALCO: Asset Liability Management Committee 
ALLL: Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses 
AML: Anti-Money Laundering
 AOCI: Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 
ARM: Adjustable Rate Mortgage ASU: Accounting Standards Update
 ATM: Automated Teller Machine
 BCBS: Basel Committee on Banking Supervision BHC: Bank Holding Company
 BHCA: Bank Holding Company Act
 BOLI: Bank Owned Life Insurance 
BPO: Broker Price Opinion bps: Basis Points BSA: Bank Secrecy Act 
CCAR: Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review 
CDC: Fifth Third Community Development Corporation 
CET1: Common Equity Tier 1 CFE: Collateralized Financing Entity 
CFPB: United States Consumer Financial Protection Bureau 
CFTC: Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
C&I: Commercial and Industrial 
CPP: Capital Purchase Program 
CRA: Community Reinvestment Act 
DCF: Discounted Cash Flow DFA: Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
 and Consumer Protection Act DIF:
 Deposit Insurance Fund DOJ:
 United States Department of Justice 
DTCC: Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation ERISA: Employee Retirement Income Security Act 
ERM: Enterprise Risk Management 
ERMC: Enterprise Risk Management Committee 
EVE: Economic Value of Equity FASB: Financial Accounting Standards Board 
FDIA: Federal Deposit Insurance Act FDIC: Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
FFIEC: Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council 
FHA: Federal Housing Administration FHLB: Federal Home Loan Bank 
FHLMC: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 
FICO: Fair Isaac Corporation (credit rating) 
FNMA: Federal National Mortgage Association 
FRB: Federal Reserve Bank 
FSOC: Financial Stability Oversight Council 
FTE: Fully Taxable Equivalent
 FTP: Funds Transfer Pricing 
FTS: Fifth Third Securities GDP:
 Gross Domestic Product 
GNMA: Government National Mortgage Association
 GSE: United States Government Sponsored Enterprise
 HAMP: Home Affordable Modification Program HARP: Home Affordable Refinance Program HFS: Held for Sale
 HQLA: High-Quality Liquid Assets 
HUD:
 Department of Housing and Urban Development
 IPO: Initial Public Offering
 IRC: Internal Revenue Code IRLC: Interest Rate Lock Commitment 
IRS: Internal Revenue Service 
ISDA:
 International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. 
LCR: Liquidity Coverage Ratio 
LIBOR: London Interbank Offered Rate 
LLC: 
Limited Liability Company
 LTV: Loan-to-Value 
MD&A: Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations 

MSA: Metro Statistical Area 
MSR: Mortgage Servicing Right 
N/A: Not Applicable 
NASDAQ: National Association of Securities Dealers Automated 
Quotations 
NII: Net Interest Income 
NM: Not Meaningful 
NSFR: Net Stable Funding Ratio 
OAS: Option-Adjusted Spread 
OCC: Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
 OCI: Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 
OREO: Other Real Estate Owned OTTI: Other-Than-Temporary Impairment 
PCA: Prompt Corrective Action PMI: Private Mortgage Insurance 
PSAs: Performance Share Awards 
RSAs: Restricted Stock Awards RSUs: Restricted Stock Units 
SARs: Stock Appreciation Rights 
SBA: Small Business Administration 
SEC: United States Securities and Exchange Commission TARP: Troubled Asset Relief Program 
TBAs: To Be Announced 
TDR: 
Troubled Debt Restructuring 
TRA: Tax Receivable Agreement TruPS: Trust Preferred Securities 
U.S.: United States of America 
U.S. GAAP: United States Generally Accepted Accounting Principles VA: Department of Veterans Affairs 
VIE: Variable Interest Entity 
VRDN: 
Variable Rate Demand Note 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  15  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following is Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations of certain significant f
actors that have 
affected Fifth Third Bancorp™s (the ﬁBancorpﬂ or ﬁFifth Thirdﬂ
) financial condition and results 
of operations during the period
s included in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements, which are a part of this fili
ng. Reference to the Bancorp incorporates the parent holding co
mpany and all 
consolidated subsidiaries.                           TABLE 1: SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
                           For the years ended December 31 ($ in
 millions, except for per share data)
    2015 
   2014 
  2013 
  2012 
  2011 
  Income Statement Data
                          Net interest income
(a) $ 3,554 
3,600 
3,581 
   3,613 
  3,575 
Noninterest income    3,003 
2,473 
3,227 
   2,999 
  2,455 
       Total revenue
(a)   6,557 
6,073 
6,808 
6,612 
6,030 
Provision for loan and lease losses
    396 
315 
229 
   303 
  423 
Noninterest expense
    3,775 
3,709 
3,961 
   4,081 
  3,758 
Net income attributable to Bancorp
    1,712 1,481 
  1,836 
 1,576 
  1,297 
  Net income available to common shareholders
    1,637 
1,414 
  1,799 
 1,541 
  1,094 
  Common Share Data
      Earnings per share - basic
  $2.03 
1.68 
  2.05 
1.69 
  1.20 
  Earnings per share - diluted
    2.01 
1.66 
  2.02 
1.66 
  1.18 
  Cash dividends declared per common share
    0.52 
0.51 
0.47 
0.36 
  0.28 
Book value per share
    18.48 17.35 
15.85 
15.10 
  13.92 
Market value per share
    20.10 
20.38 
21.03 
  15.20 
  12.72 
Financial Ratios
            Return on average assets
    1.22 %1.12 
  1.48 
1.34 
  1.15 
  Return on average common equity
    11.3 10.0 
  13.1 
11.6 
  9.0 
  Return on average tangible common equity
(b)   13.5 12.2 
  16.0 
14.3 
  11.4 
  Dividend payout ratio
    25.6 
30.3 
22.9 
21.3 
23.3 
  Average total Bancorp shareholders' equity as a percent of average assets
    11.32 11.59 
  11.56 
11.65 
  11.41 
  Tangible common equity as a percent of tangible assets
(b)(i)
   8.59 
8.43 
8.63 
8.83 
  8.68 
Net interest margin
(a)   2.88 
3.10 
3.32 
3.55 
  3.66 
Efficiency
(a)   57.6 
61.1 
58.2 
61.7 
  62.3 
Credit Quality 
        Net losses charged-off 
  $446 
575 
501 
  704 
  1,172 
Net losses charged-off as a percent of average portfolio loans and leases
    0.48 
0.64 
0.58 
  0.85 
  1.49 
ALLL as a percent of portfolio loans and leases
    1.37 1.47 
1.79 
  2.16 
  2.78 
Allowance for credit losses as a percent of portfolio loans and leases
(c)
   1.52 1.62 
1.97 
  2.37 
  3.01 
Nonperforming portfolio assets as a 
percent of portfolio loans and leases
             and OREO
    0.70 
0.82 
1.10 
  1.49 
  2.23 
Average Balances
        Loans and leases, including held for sale
  $93,339 
91,127 
  89,093 
  84,822 
  80,214 
  Total securities and other short-term investments
    30,245 
24,866 
  18,861 
  16,814 
  17,468 
  Total assets
    140,111 
131,943 
  123,732 
  117,614 
  112,666 
  Transaction deposits
(d)
   95,244 
89,715 
  82,915 
  78,116 
  72,392 
  Core deposits
(e)
   99,295 
93,477 
  86,675 
  82,422 
  78,652 
  Wholesale funding
(f)
   20,243 
19,188 
  17,797 
  16,978 
  16,939 
  Bancorp shareholders™ equity
    15,865 15,290 
  14,302 
13,701 
  12,851 
  Regulatory Capital Ratios
  Basel III 
Transitional(g)
 Basel I
(h)
   CET1 capital
    9.82 
% N/AN/A  N/A  N/A  Tier I risk-based capital
    10.93    10.83 
10.43 
   10.69 
   12.00 
  Total risk-based capital 
    14.13 14.33 
14.17 
   14.47 
   16.19 
  Tier I leverage
    9.54 
9.66 
9.73 
   10.15 
   11.25 
                Basel III Fully 
Phased-In
         CET1 capital
(b)
   9.72 
%N/AN/A  N/A  N/A  (a) Amounts presented on an FTE basis. The FTE adjustment for the years ended 
December 31, 2015
, 2014, 2013, 2012 and 2011 was 
$21, $21, $20, $18 and $18, respectively.
 (b) These are non-GAAP measures. For furthe
r information, refer to the Non-GAAP
 Financial Measures section of MD&A. 
(c) The allowance for credit losses is the sum of the 
ALLL and the reserve for unfunded commitments. 
(d) Includes demand deposits, interest checking deposits, savings 
deposits, money market deposits and foreign office deposits. 
(e) Includes transaction deposits and other time deposits. 
(f) Includes certificates $100,000 and 
over, other deposits, federal funds purchased, 
other short-term borrowings and long-term deb
t. 
(g) Under the U.S. banking agencies™ Basel III Final Rule, assets 
and credit equivalent amounts 
of off-balance sheet exposures 
are calculated according to the standardized approach for risk-weighted 
assets. The resulting values are 
added together in the Bancorp™
s total risk-weighted assets. 
(h) These capital ratios were calculated under the Supervisory Ag
encies general risk-based capital rules (Basel I) which were i
n effect prior to January 1, 2015. 
(i) Excludes unrealized gains and losses.  
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  16  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 OVERVIEW Fifth Third Bancorp is a diversified financial services company 
headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio. At December 31, 2015, the 
Bancorp had $141.1 billion in asse
ts and operates 1,254 full-service 
banking centers, including 95 Bank Mart® locations, open seven 

days a week, inside select grocery stores and 2,593 ATMs in twelve 

states throughout the Midwestern 
and Southeastern regions of the 
U.S. The Bancorp reports on four business segments: Commercial 

Banking, Branch Banking, C
onsumer Lending and Investment 
Advisors. The Bancorp also has an approximate 18% interest in 

Vantiv Holding, LLC. The carrying value of the Bancorp™s 
investment in Vantiv Holding, LLC was $360 million as of 
December 31, 2015. 
This overview of MD&A highlights selected information in the 
financial results of the Bancorp and may not contain all of the 

information that is important 
to you. For a more complete 
understanding of trends, even
ts, commitments, uncertainties, liquidity, capital resources and critical accounting policies and 

estimates, you should carefully read
 this entire document. Each of 
these items could have an impact on the Bancorp™s financial 
condition, results of operations and 
cash flows. In addition, refer to 
the Glossary of Abbreviations and Acronyms in this report for a list 

of terms included as a tool for the reader of this annual report on 

Form 10-K. The abbreviations and acronyms identified therein are 

used throughout this MD&A, as we
ll as the Consolidated Financial 
Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Net interest income, net interest margin and the efficiency ratio 
are presented in MD&A on an FTE basis. The FTE basis adjusts 
for the tax-favored status of 
income from certain loans and 
securities held by the Bancorp 
that are not taxable for federal 
income tax purposes. The Bancorp believes this presentation to be 

the preferred industry measurement of net interest income as it 

provides a relevant comparison between taxable and non-taxable 

amounts.  The Bancorp™s revenues are dependent on both net interest 
income and noninterest income. For the year ended December 31, 
2015, net interest income on an FTE basis and noninterest income 

provided 54% and 46% of total revenue, respectively. The Bancorp 

derives the majority of its revenues
 within the U.S. from customers 
domiciled in the United States. Re
venue from foreign countries and 
external customers domiciled in fo
reign countries was immaterial to 
the Consolidated Financial Statemen
ts. Changes in interest rates, 
credit quality, economic trends and the capital markets are primary 
factors that drive the performance of the Bancorp. As discussed 
later in the Risk Management secti
on of MD&A, risk identification, 
measurement, monitoring, control and reporting are important to 

the management of risk and to the financial performance and capital 

strength of the Bancorp.  
Net interest income is the difference between interest income 
earned on assets such as loans, le
ases and securities, and interest 
expense incurred on liabilities such 
as deposits, other short-term 
borrowings and long-term debt. Net interest income is affected by 
the general level of interest rates, 
the relative level of short-term and 
long-term interest rates, changes in
 interest rates and changes in the 
amount and composition of interest-earning assets and interest-

bearing liabilities. Generally, the rate
s of interest the Bancorp earns 
on its assets and pays on its liabilities are established for a period of 

time. The change in market interest rates over time exposes the 

Bancorp to interest rate risk through potential adverse changes to 
net interest income and financial position. The Bancorp manages 
this risk by continually analyzing and adjusting the composition of 

its assets and liabilities based on their payment streams and interest 

rates, the timing of their maturiti
es and their sensitivity to changes 
in market interest rates. Addition
ally, in the ordinary course of 
business, the Bancorp enters into certain derivative transactions as 
part of its overall strategy to manage its interest rate and prepayment risks. The Bancorp is also exposed to the risk of losses on its loan 
and lease portfolio as a result of changing expected cash flows 

caused by borrower credit events
, such as loan defaults and 
inadequate collateral due to 
a weakened economy within the 
Bancorp™s footprint. 
Noninterest income is derived from service charges on 
deposits, investment advisory revenue, corporate banking revenue, 

mortgage banking net revenue, card and processing revenue, 
securities gains, net and other noninterest income. Noninterest 
expense includes personnel costs, net occupancy expense, 

technology and communication costs, 
card and processing expense, 
equipment expense and other noninterest expense. 

 Vantiv, Inc. and Vantiv Holding, LLC Transactions  
During the fourth quarter of 2015,
 the Bancorp entered into an 
agreement with Vantiv, Inc. under which a portion of its TRA with 
Vantiv, Inc. was terminated and settled in full for a cash payment of 
approximately $49 million from Vantiv, Inc. Under the agreement, 

the Bancorp sold certain TRA cash flows it expected to receive 

from 2017 to 2030, totaling an
 estimated $140 million. 
Approximately half of the sold TRA cash flows related to 2025 and 

later. This sale did not impact the TRA payment recognized during 

the fourth quarter of 2015 and is not expected to impact the TRA 

payment to be recognized in the fo
urth quarter of 2016. In addition 
to the impact of the TRA termination discussed above, the Bancorp 
recognized $31 million, $23 milli
on and $9 million in noninterest 
income in the Consolidated Statements of Income associated with 

the TRA during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 

2013, respectively. The Bancorp agreed during the fourth quarter of 2015 to 
cancel rights to purchase approximately 4.8 million Class C units in 

Vantiv Holding, LLC, the who
lly-owned principal operating 
subsidiary of Vantiv, Inc., underl
ying the Bancorp™s warrant in 
exchange for a cash payment of $
200 million. Subsequent to this 
cancellation, the Bancorp exer
cised its right to purchase 
approximately 7.8 million Class C units underlying the Bancorp™s 

warrant at the $15.98 strike price. 
This exercise was settled on a net 
basis for approximately 5.4 million Class C units, which were then 

exchanged for approximately 5.4 milli
on shares of Vantiv, Inc. Class 
A common stock that were sold in the secondary offering. The 
Bancorp recognized a gain of $89 million on the 62% of the warrant 
that was settled or net exercised.  Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2015, the Bancorp 
exchanged 8 million Class B units of Vantiv Holding, LLC for 8 

million Class A shares in Vantiv, Inc., which were also sold in the 

secondary offering, and on which the Bancorp recognized a gain of 

$331 million. The Bancorp™s r
emaining investment in Vantiv 
Holding, LLC continues to be 
accounted for under the equity 
method of accounting. For more information, refer to Note 19 of 
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.   Branch Consolidation and Sales Plan 
The Bancorp monitors changing customer preferences associated 

with the channels it uses for bank
ing transactions to evaluate the 
efficiency, competitiveness and quality of the customer service 

experience in its consumer distribu
tion network. As part of this 
ongoing assessment, the Bancorp may determine that it is no longer 
fully committed to maintaining full-s
ervice branches at certain of its 
existing banking center locations.
 Similarly, the Bancorp may also 
determine that it is no longer fully committed to building banking 

centers on certain parcels of land which had previously been held 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  17  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 for future branch expansion. On June 16, 2015, the Bancorp™s 
Board of Directors authorized management to pursue a plan to 

further develop its distribution strategy, including a plan to 
consolidate and/or sell certain operating branch locations and to sell 
certain parcels of undeveloped land that had been acquired by the 

Bancorp for future branch expa
nsion (the ﬁBranch Consolidation and Sales Planﬂ). The Bancorp expects to receive $60 million in 
annual savings from operating ex
penses upon completion of the 
Branch Consolidation and Sales Plan. On September 3, 2015, the Bancorp announced the decision to 
enter into an agreement to sell branch banking locations, retail 

accounts, certain private banking deposits and related loan 

relationships in the Pittsburgh MSA to First National Bank of 

Pennsylvania. On September 30, 2015, the Bancorp announced the 
decision to enter into an agreement to sell its retail operations, 
including retail accounts, cert
ain private banking deposits and 
related loan relationships in the 
St. Louis MSA to Great Southern 
Bank. Both transactions are part of the Branch Consolidation and 

Sales Plan and are expected to clos
e in the first half of 2016. As of 
December 31, 2015, the Bancorp intended to consolidate and/or 

sell 107 operating branch locations and to sell an additional 32 

parcels of undeveloped land that had been acquired by the Bancorp 
for future branch expansion. For further information on a 
subsequent event related to the 
Branch Consolidation and Sales 
Plan, refer to Note 31 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial 

Statements. The Bancorp performs assessments of the recoverability of 
long-lived assets when events or 
changes in circumstances indicate 
that their carrying values may not be recoverable. Impairment losses 

associated with such assessments and lower of cost or market 

adjustments were $109 million, $20 million and $6 million for the 

years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The 
recognized impairment losses were recorded in other noninterest 
income in the Consolidated Statements of Income. For more 

information on the Branch Consolidation and Sales Plan, refer to 

Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

 Accelerated Share Repurchase Transactions 
During the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Bancorp 

entered into or settled a number of accelerated share repurchase 
transactions. As part of these transactions, the Bancorp entered into 
forward contracts in which the fin
al number of shares delivered at 
settlement was based generally on a discount to the average daily 

volume weighted-average price of the Bancorp™s common stock 

during the term of the repurchase agreements. For more 

information on the accelerated share repurchase program, refer to 

Note 23 of the Notes to Consolid
ated Financial Statements. For a 
summary of the Bancorp™s accelerated
 share repurchase transactions 
that were entered into or settled during the years ended December 
31, 2015 and 2014, refer to Table 2.  TABLE 2: SUMMARY OF ACCELERATED SHARE REPURCHASE TRANSACTIONS
 Shares Repurchased on 
Repurchase Date
Shares Received from Forward 
Contract Settlement 
Total Shares 
Repurchased 
 Repurchase Date
    Amount ($ in millions) 
Settlement Date 
November 18, 2013 
    200 
 8,538,423 
 1,132,495 
 9,670,918 
March 5, 2014
December 13, 2013 
    456 
 19,084,195 
 2,294,932 
 21,379,127 
March 31, 2014
January 31, 2014 
    99 
 3,950,705 
 602,109 
 4,552,814 
March 31, 2014
May 1, 2014 
    150 
 6,216,480 
 1,016,514 
 7,232,994 
July 21, 2014
July 24, 2014 
    225 
 9,352,078 
 1,896,685 
 11,248,763 
October 14, 2014
October 23, 2014 
    180 
 8,337,875 
 794,245 
 9,132,120 
January 8, 2015
January 27, 2015 
    180 
 8,542,713 
 1,103,744 
 9,646,457 
April 28, 2015
April 30, 2015 
    155 
 6,704,835 
 842,655 
 7,547,490 
July 31, 2015
August 3, 2015 
    150 
 6,039,792 
 1,346,314 
 7,386,106 
September 3, 2015
September 9, 2015 
    150 
 6,538,462 
 1,446,613 
 7,985,075 
October 23, 2015
December 14, 2015 
    215 
 9,248,482 
 1,782,477 
 11,030,959 
January 14, 2016
        Senior Notes Offerings 
On July 27, 2015, the Bancorp i
ssued and sold $1.1 billion of 
2.875% unsecured senior fixed-rate notes, with a maturity of five 

years, due on July 27, 2020. The notes
 are not subject to redemption 
at the Bancorp™s option at any time until 30 days prior to maturity. 
On August 20, 2015, the Bank i
ssued and sold $1.3 billion in 
aggregate principal amount of unsecured senior bank notes, with a 
maturity of three years, due on 
August 20, 2018. The bank notes 
consisted of $1.0 billion of 2.15% senior fixed-rate notes and $250 

million of senior floating-rate notes. The Bancorp entered into 

interest rate swaps to convert the fixed-rate notes to floating-rate, 

which resulted in an effective ra
te of three-month LIBOR plus 90 
bps. Interest on the floating-rate notes is three-month LIBOR plus 

91 bps. These bank notes will be redeemable by the Bank, in whole 

or in part, on or after the date that is 30 days prior to the maturity 
date at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount 
plus accrued and unpaid interest up to, but excluding, the 

redemption date. For additional information on the senior notes 

offerings, refer to Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial 

Statements.  
 Automobile Loan Securitization 
On November 5, 2015, the Banc
orp transferred an aggregate 
amount of approximately $750 million in consumer automobile 

loans to a bankruptcy remote trust which was deemed to be a VIE. 

The Bancorp concluded that it is the primary beneficiary of this 

VIE and, therefore, has consolid
ated this VIE. For additional 
information on the automobile loan securitization refer to Note 11 
and Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 Legislative and Regulatory Developments 
The FDIC published a notice of proposed rulemaking in October 

of 2015 which would implement a 4.5 bps surcharge on the 

quarterly FDIC insurance assessments of insured depository 

institutions with total consolidated assets of $10 billion or more. 

The surcharge would take effect at the same time the FDIC is 
required to lower the regular FDIC insurance assessments by 
approximately 2 bps under a rule ad
opted by the FDIC in 2011 that 
is triggered by the DIF reserve ratio reaching 1.15% of insured 

deposits. The FDIC estimates the DIF reserve ratio will reach 

1.15% in 2016 and the surcharge wo
uld be sufficient to raise the 
DIF reserve ratio to the 1.35% minimum mandated by the DFA in 

approximately eight quarters. Fifth Third estimates the proposed 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  18  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 changes to the FDIC assessments wo
uld result in a net increase in 
its FDIC insurance expense of 
approximately $25 million on an 
annual basis. The comment period for this proposal ended January 

5, 2016. On September 30, 2015, the Bancorp agreed to pay 
approximately $85 million to cover losses on approximately 500 

loans for which HUD had paid FHA insurance claims, and an 

additional $2 million to HUD, in connection with the Bancorp™s 

entry into a Stipulation and Order of Settlement and Dismissal with 

the DOJ and HUD, which was approved by the U.S. District Court 

for the Southern District of New York on October 5, 2015, and a 

related Settlement Agreement with HUD. On September 28, 2015, 
the Bancorp entered into consent orders and agreed, without 
admitting or denying any of the findings of fact or conclusions of 

law (except to establish jurisdiction), to pay $18 million to 

consumers in a settlement with the DOJ and the CFPB related to an 

investigation into whether Fifth Third Bank engaged in any 

discriminatory practices in conn
ection with the Bank™s indirect 
automobile loan portfolio. On 
September 28, 2015, the Bancorp 
agreed to pay an amount not less than $3 million in redress to 
consumers and a civil penalty 
of $500,000 to the CFPB in 
connection with its entry into a consent order with the CFPB 

related to the marketing and administration of the Bancorp™s debt 

protection credit card ﬁadd-onﬂ product for those enrolled in the 

product from January 1, 2007 
through November 11, 2013. For 
additional information on these legal and regulatory proceedings 

refer to Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
On March 11, 2015, the Bancorp 
announced the results of its 
capital plan submitted to the FRB as part of the 2015 CCAR. The 
FRB indicated to the Bancorp that it did not object to the following 

capital actions for the period beginning April 1, 2015 and ending 
June 30, 2016:  The potential increase in the quarterly common stock 
dividend to $0.14 per share in 2016; 
 The potential repurchase of common shares in an 
amount up to $765 million; and  The additional ability to repurchase shares in the 
amount of any after-tax gains from the sale of Vantiv, 
Inc. common stock. 

 The BHCs that participated in
 the 2015 CCAR, including the 
Bancorp, were required to conduct mid-cycle company-run stress 

tests using data as of March 31, 2015. For more information on the 

2015 CCAR results and 2015 mid-cycle stress test, refer to Note 3 

of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Fifth Third offers qualified deposit customers a deposit 
advance product if they choose to avail themselves of this product 

to meet short-term, small-dollar financial needs. In April of 2013, 
the CFPB issued a ﬁWhite Paperﬂ which studied financial services 
industry offerings and customer use of deposit advance products as 

well as payday loans and is cons
idering whether rules governing these products are warranted. At the same time, the OCC and FDIC 
each issued proposed supervisor
y guidance for public comment to 
institutions they supervise wh
ich supplements existing OCC and 
FDIC guidance, detailing the prin
ciples they expect financial 
institutions to follow in connecti
on with deposit advance products 
and supervisory expectations for the use of deposit advance 
products. The Federal Reserve also issued a statement in April of 

2013 to state member banks like Fifth Third for whom the Federal 

Reserve is the primary regulator. 
This statement encouraged state 
member banks to respond to customers™ small-dollar credit needs in 

a responsible manner; emphasized that they should take into 

consideration the risks associated with deposit advance products, 

including potential consumer harm and potential elevated 
compliance risk; and reminded them that these product offerings 
must comply with applicable laws and regulations.  
Fifth Third™s deposit advance product is designed to fully 
comply with the applicable feder
al and state laws and use of this 
product is subject to strict eligibility requirements and advance 
restriction guidelines to limit dependency on this product as a 

borrowing source. The Bancorp™
s deposit advance balances are 
included in other consumer loan
s and leases in the Loans and 
Leases subsection of the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A 

and in Table 9 in the Statements of Income Analysis section of 

MD&A. On January 17, 2014, given developments in industry 

practice, Fifth Third announced th
at it would no longer enroll new 
customers in its deposit advance product and expected to phase out 
the service to existing customers by the end of 2014. To avoid a 

disruption to its existing custo
mers during the extension period 
while the banking industry awaits further regulatory guidance on the 

deposit advance product, on November 3, 2014, Fifth Third 

announced changes to its current deposit advance product for 

existing customers beginning January 1, 2015, including a lower 

transaction fee, an extended 
repayment period and a reduced 
maximum advance period. The Bancorp is continuing to offer the 
service to existing deposit ad
vance customers until further 
regulatory guidance is finalized. These changes to the deposit 

advance product negatively impacted net interest income by $94 

million for the year ended December 31, 2015. 
In July of 2013, U.S. banking regulators approved final 
enhanced regulatory capital requi
rements (Basel III Final Rule), 
which included modifications to the proposed rules. The Basel III 
Final Rule provided for certain banks, including the Bancorp, to opt 
out of including AOCI in regulatory capital and also retained the 

treatment of residential mortgage exposures consistent with the 

current Basel I capital rules. The 
Basel III Final Rule phases out the 
inclusion of certain TruPS as a component of Tier I capital. The 

Bancorp became subject to the Ba
sel III Final Rule on January 1, 
2015. The Bancorp made a one-time permanent election not to 

include AOCI in regulatory capital in the March 31, 2015 FFIEC 
031 and FR Y-9C filings. For more information on the impact of 
the regulatory capital enhancements, refer to the Capital 

Management subsection of the 
Risk Management section of 
MD&A. On December 10, 2013, the U.S. 
banking agencies finalized 
section 619 of the DFA, known as the Volcker Rule, which became 

effective April 1, 2014. Though the Final Rule was effective April 1, 

2014, the FRB granted the industry an extension of time until July 
21, 2015 to conform certain of its activities related to proprietary 
trading to comply with the Volcker Rule. In addition, the FRB has 

granted the industry an extensi
on of time until July 21, 2016, and 
announced its intention to grant a one year extension of the 
conformance period until July 21, 2017, to conform certain 

ownership interests in, sponsorship 
activities of and relationships 
with private equity or hedge fu
nds as well as holding certain 
collateralized loan obligations that 
were in place as of December 31, 
2013. It is possible that additional conformance period extensions 
could be granted either to the entire industry, or, upon request, to 

requesting banking organizations on 
a case-by-case basis. The Final 
Rule prohibits banks and BHCs fr
om engaging in short-term 
proprietary trading of certain securities, derivatives, commodity 

futures and options on these inst
ruments for their own account. 
The Volcker Rule also restricts banks and their affiliated entities 

from owning, sponsoring or having certain relationships with 
private equity and hedge funds, as well as holding certain 
collateralized loan obligations that are deemed to contain ownership 

interests. Exemptions are provided
 for certain activities such as 
underwriting, market making, hedging, trading in certain 

government obligations and organizing and offering a hedge fund or 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  19  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 private equity fund. Fifth Third does not sponsor any private equity 
or hedge funds that, under the Final Rule, it is prohibited from 

sponsoring. At December 31, 2015, the Bancorp did not hold 

collateralized loan obligations. 
At December 31, 2015, the Bancorp 
had approximately $186 million in interests and approximately $37 

million in binding commitments to invest in private equity funds 
that are affected by the Volcker Rule. It is expected that over time 
the Bancorp may need to dispose of these investments, however no 

formal plan to sell has been approved as of December 31, 2015. As 

a result of the announced conformance period extension, the 

Bancorp believes it is likely that these investments will be reduced 

over time in the ordinary course of events before compliance is 

required. 
On October 10, 2014, the U.S. banking agencies published 
final rules implementing a quant
itative liquidity requirement 
consistent with the LCR standard established by the BCBS for large 

internationally active banking or
ganizations, generally those with 
$250 billion or more in total consolidated assets or $10 billion or 

more in on-balance sheet foreign ex
posure. In addition, a modified 
LCR requirement was implemented for BHCs with $50 billion or 

more in total consolidated assets
 but that are not internationally 
active, such as Fifth Third. The Modified LCR became effective 
January 1, 2016 and requires BHCs to calculate its LCR on a 
monthly basis. Refer to the Liqui
dity Risk Management subsection 
of the Risk Management section 
of MD&A for further discussion 
on these ratios. 
On July 31, 2013, the U.S. District Court for the District of 
Columbia issued an order granting summary judgment to the 
plaintiffs in a case challenging cert
ain provisions of the FRB™s rule 
concerning electronic debit card
 transaction fees and network 
exclusivity arrangements (the ﬁCurrent
 Ruleﬂ) that were adopted to 
implement Section 1075 of the DFA, known as the Durbin 

Amendment. The Court held that, 
in adopting the Current Rule, the 
FRB violated the Durbin Amendment™s provisions concerning 
which costs are allowed to be take
n into account for purposes of 
setting fees that are reasonable and proportional to the costs 

incurred by the issuer and, theref
ore, the Current Rule™s maximum 
permissible fees were too high. In addition, the Court held that the 

Current Rule™s network non-exclus
ivity provisions concerning 
unaffiliated payment networks for debit cards also violated the 

Durbin Amendment. The Court vacated the Current Rule, but 

stayed its ruling to provide the FRB an opportunity to replace the 
invalidated portions. The FRB appealed this decision and on March 
21, 2014, the District of Columbia Circuit Court of Appeals 

reversed the District Court™s grant of summary judgment and 

remanded the case for further proceedings in accordance with its 

opinion. The merchants have filed a 
petition for writ of certiorari to 
the U.S. Supreme Court. Howeve
r, on January 20, 2015, the U.S. 
Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal of the Circuit Court 

reversal, thereby largely upholding the Current Rule and 
substantially reducing uncertainty surrounding debit card 
interchange fees the Bancorp is permitted to charge. Refer to the 

Noninterest Income subsection of the Statements of Income 

Analysis section of MD&A for fu
rther information regarding the 
Bancorp™s debit card interchange revenue. 
       TABLE 3: CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                    For the years ended December 31 ($ 
in millions, except per share data)
 2015 
  2014 
   2013  
  2012  
 2011  
 Interest income (FTE) 
$4,049 
4,051 
3,993 
4,125 
4,236 
Interest expense 
 495 
451 
412 
512 
661 
Net Interest Income (FTE)
  3,554 
3,600 
3,581 
3,613 
3,575 
Provision for loan and lease losses 
 396 
315 
229 
303 
423 
Net Interest Income After Provision for Loan and Lease Losses (FTE)
  3,158 
3,285 
3,352 
3,310 
3,152 
Noninterest income  3,003 
2,473 
3,227 
2,999 
2,455 
Noninterest expense  3,775 
3,709 
3,961 
4,081 
3,758 
Income Before Income Taxes (FTE)
  2,386 
2,049 
2,618 
2,228 
1,849 
Fully taxable equivalent adjustment 
 21 21 
20 
18 
18 
Applicable income tax expense 
 659 
545 
772 
636 
533 
Net Income
  1,706 
1,483 
1,826 
1,574 
1,298 
Less: Net income attributab
le to noncontrolling interests 
 (6)2 (10)
(2)
1 Net Income Attributable to Bancorp
  1,712 1,481 
1,836 
1,576 
1,297 
Dividends on preferred stock 
 75 
67 
37 
35 
203 
Net Income Available to Common Shareholders
 $1,637 
1,414 
1,799 
1,541 
1,094 
Earnings per share - basic
 $ 2.03 
 1.68 
 2.05 
 1.69 
 1.20 
Earnings per share - diluted
 $ 2.01 
 1.66 
 2.02 
 1.66 
 1.18 
Cash dividends declared per common share
 $ 0.52 
 0.51 
 0.47 
 0.36 
 0.28 
         Earnings Summary 
The Bancorp™s net income available to common shareholders for 
the year ended December 31, 2015 was
 $1.6 billion, or $2.01 per 
diluted share, which was net of $75 million in preferred stock 

dividends. The Bancorp™s net 
income available to common 
shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2014 was $1.4 billion, 

or $1.66 per diluted share, which was net of $67 million in preferred 

stock dividends. Pre-provision net 
revenue was $2.8 billion and $2.3 
billion for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, 

respectively. Pre-provision net 
revenue is a non-GAAP measure. 
For further information, refer to the Non-GAAP Financial 
Measures section of MD&A. Net interest income on an FTE basis was $3.6 billion for both 
the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014. Net interest income 
was negatively impacted by a decrease in the net interest rate spread, 
changes made to the Bancorp™s deposit advance product beginning 
January 1, 2015 and an increase in average long-term debt of $1.7 
billion for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year 

ended December 31, 2014. These negative impacts were partially 

offset by increases in average taxable securities and average loans 

and leases of $5.2 billion and $2.2
 billion, respectively, for the year 
ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 

31, 2014. Net interest margin on an FTE basis was 2.88% and 

3.10% for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, 
respectively. Noninterest income increased $530 million from the year 
ended December 31, 2014 primarily due to increases in other 

noninterest income and mortgage banking net revenue partially 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  20  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 offset by a decrease in corporate banking revenue. Other 
noninterest income increased $529 million from the year ended 

December 31, 2014. The increase included the impact of a gain of 

$331 million on the sale of Vantiv, In
c. shares in the fourth quarter 
of 2015 compared to a gain of $125 million during the second 
quarter of 2014. The positive v
aluation adjustments on the stock 
warrant associated with Vantiv Holding, LLC were $236 million and 

$31 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, 

respectively. During the fourth
 quarter of 2015, the Bancorp 
recognized a gain of $89 million on both the sale and exercise of a 

portion of the warrant associated with Vantiv Holding, LLC. 

Additionally, the Bancorp recognized a gain of $49 million from the 
payment from Vantiv, Inc. to terminate a portion of the TRA and 
also recognized a gain of $31 million associated with the annual 

TRA payment during the fourth quarter of 2015. The Bancorp 

recognized a gain of $23 million a
ssociated with the TRA during the 
fourth quarter of 2014. Mortgage 
banking net revenue increased $38 
million from the year ended December 31, 2014 primarily due to 

increases in net mortgage servicing revenue and origination fees and 

gains on loan sales. Corporate banking revenue decreased $46 
million for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year 
ended December 31, 2014 primarily driven by decreases in 

syndication fees and lease remarketing fees. 
Noninterest expense increased $66 million for the year ended 
December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 

primarily due to increases in personnel costs, technology and 

communications expense and card 
and processing expense partially 
offset by a decrease in other noninterest expense. Personnel costs 
increased $65 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 
compared to the year ended Decemb
er 31, 2014 driven by higher 
executive retirement and severance co
sts as well as an increase in 
base compensation and an increase in incentive compensation, 

primarily in the mortgage business. Technology and 

communications expense increase
d $12 million for the year ended 
December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 

driven primarily by increased inve
stment in information technology 
associated with regulatory and compliance initiatives, system 
maintenance, and other growth initiatives. Card and processing 

expense increased $12 million for the year ended December 31, 

2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 driven 

primarily by increased fraud prevention related expenses. Other 

noninterest expense decreased $34 million for the year ended 

December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 

primarily due to a decrease in losses and adjustments partially offset 
by increases in the provision for the reserve for unfunded 
commitments, marketing expense, 
donations expense, impairment 
on affordable housing investments, 
FDIC insurance and other taxes 
and operating lease expense.  
For more information on net interest income, noninterest 
income and noninterest expense, refer to the Statements of Income 

Analysis section of MD&A. 
 Credit Summary 
The provision for loan and leas
e losses was $396 million and $315 
million for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, 

respectively. Net losses charged-off as a percent of average portfolio 

loans and leases decreased to 0.48% during the year ended 

December 31, 2015 compared to 0.64% during the year ended 

December 31, 2014. At December 31, 2015, nonperforming 

portfolio assets as a percent of
 portfolio loans and leases and 
OREO decreased to 0.70% compared to 0.82% at December 31, 
2014. For further discussion on credit quality, refer to the Credit 

Risk Management subsection of 
the Risk Management section of 
MD&A. 
 Capital Summary 
The Bancorp™s capital ratios exceed
 the ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ guidelines 
as defined by the PCA requirements of the U.S. banking agencies. 

As of December 31, 2015, as calculated under the Basel III 
transition provisions, the CET1 ca
pital ratio was 9.82%, the Tier I 
risk-based capital ratio was 10.93%, the Total risk-based capital ratio 

was 14.13% and the Tier I leverage ratio was 9.54%. 
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  21  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES 
The following are non-GAAP measures which are important to the 
reader of the Consolidated Financial Statements but should be 

supplemental to primary U.S. GAAP measures.  
The Bancorp considers many factors when determining the 
adequacy of its liquidity profile, including its LCR as defined by the 
U.S. banking agencies Basel III 
LCR Final Rule. Generally, the LCR 
is designed to ensure banks maintain an adequate level of 

unencumbered HQLA to satisfy the estimated net cash outflows 

under a 30-day stress scenario. The Bancorp is subject to the 
Modified LCR whereby the net cash outflow under the 30-day stress 
scenario is multiplied by a factor of 0.7. The LCR Final Rule became 

effective for the Bancorp on January 1, 2016. The Bancorp believes 

there is no comparable U.S. GAAP
 financial measure to the LCR. 
The Bancorp believes providing an estimated Modified LCR is 
important for comparability to other financial institutions. For a 

further discussion on liquidity ma
nagement and the LCR, refer to 
the Liquidity Risk Management subs
ection of the Risk Management 
section of MD&A. 
    TABLE 4:  NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES Œ ES
TIMATED MODIFIED LIQUIDITY COVERAGE RATIO
               December 31, As of ($ in millions) 
            2015 
 Estimated HQLA 
          $  21,897 
Estimated net cash outflow 
           18,849 
Estimated Modified LCR 
           116 
%    Pre-provision net revenue is net interest income plus noninterest 
income minus noninterest expense. The Bancorp believes this 
measure is important because it provides a ready view of the 
Bancorp™s pre-tax earnings before the impact of provision expense. 
      The following table reconciles the non-GAAP financial measure of pre-provision net revenue to U.S. GAAP for the years ended Dec
ember 31:         TABLE 5:  NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEAS
URES - PRE-PROVISION NET REVENUE
             ($ in millions)
     2015 
   2014 
    Net interest income (U.S. GAAP) 
  $  3,533 
  3,579 
  Add: Noninterest income 
     3,003 
  2,473 
  Less: Noninterest expense 
     (3,775)
  (3,709)
  Pre-provision net revenue 
  $  2,761 
   2,343 
         The Bancorp believes return on average tangible common equity is 
an important measure for comparativ
e purposes with other financial 
institutions, but is not defined under U.S. GAAP, and therefore is 
considered a non-GAAP financial measure.
      The following table reconciles the non-GAAP financial measure of re
turn on average tangible common equity to U.S. GAAP for the 
years ended
December 31:         TABLE 6:  NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES - 
RETURN ON AVERAGE TANGIBLE COMMON EQUITY
 ($ in millions)
     2015 
  2014 
    Net income available to common shareholders (U.S. GAAP) 
  $  1,637 
  1,414 
  Add: Intangible amortization, net of tax 
     2 
   3 
   Tangible net income available to common shareholders (1)
   $  1,639 
  1,417 
           Average Bancorp shareholders' equity (U.S. GAAP) 
  $  15,865 
  15,290 
  Less: Average preferred stock 
    (1,331) (1,205)
          Average goodwill 
    (2,416)
 (2,416)
          Average intangible assets and other servicing rights 
    (14) (20)
  Average tangible common equity (2) 
  $  12,104 
  11,649 
           Return on average tangible common equity (1) / (2) 
     13.5 
% 12.2 
        The Bancorp considers various measures when evaluating capital 
utilization and adequacy, including the tangible equity ratio and 

tangible common equity ratio, in addition to capital ratios defined by banking regulators. These calculat
ions are intended to complement 
the capital ratios defined by banking regulators for both absolute 
and comparative purposes. Because U.S. GAAP does not include 
capital ratio measures, the Bancorp believes there are no comparable 

U.S. GAAP financial measures to these ratios. These ratios are not 

formally defined by U.S. GAAP or codified in the federal banking 

regulations and, therefore, are considered to be non-GAAP financial 

measures. Additionally, the Bancorp became subject to the Basel III 

Final Rule on January 1, 2015. The CET1 capital ratio is a new 
measure defined by the banking regulatory agencies under the Basel 
III Final Rule. The CET1 capital rati
o has transition provisions that 
will be phased out over time. The Bancorp is presenting the CET1 

capital ratio on a fully phased-in 
basis for comparative purposes 
with other organizations. Since an
alysts and banking regulators may assess the Bancorp™s capital adequacy using these ratios, the 

Bancorp believes they are useful to provide investors the ability to 

assess its capital adequacy on the same basis. The Bancorp 

encourages readers to consider its Consolidated Financial 

Statements in their entirety and not to rely on any single financial 

measure. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  22  Fifth Third Bancorp 
                The following table reconciles non-GAAP capit
al ratios to U.S. GAAP as of December 31:
                  TABLE 7:  NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES - CAPITAL RATIOS
                ($ in millions)
    2015 
    2014 
      Total Bancorp Shareholders™ Equity (U.S. GAAP)
  $  15,839 
 15,626 
  Less:  Preferred stock
     (1,331)
 (1,331)
            Goodwill
     (2,416)
 (2,416)
            Intangible assets and other servicing rights
     (13)
 (16)
  Tangible common equity, including unrealized gains / losses
     12,079 
 11,863 
  Less:  AOCI
     (197)
 (429)
  Tangible common equity, excluding unrealized gains / losses (1)
     11,882 
 11,434 
  Add:   Preferred stock
     1,331 
 1,331 
  Tangible equity (2)
  $  13,213 
 12,765 
          Total Assets (U.S. GAAP)
  $  141,082 
 138,706 
  Less:  Goodwill
     (2,416)
 (2,416)
          Intangible assets and other servicing rights
     (13)
 (16)
          AOCI, before tax
     (303)
 (660)
Tangible assets, excluding unrealized gains / losses (3)
  $  138,350 
 135,614 
        Total Bancorp Shareholders™ Equity (U.S. GAAP)
  $ N/A 15,626 
  Less:  Goodwill and certain other intangibles
    N/A (2,476)
           Unrealized gains
    N/A (429)
  Add:  Qualifying TruPS
    N/A 60 
           Other
    N/A (17)
  Tier I risk-based capital
    N/A 12,764 
Less: Preferred stock
    N/A (1,331)
          Qualifying TruPS
    N/A (60)
          Qualified noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries
    N/A (1)
  Tier I common equity (4)
  $ N/A 11,372 
     Ratios:         Tangible equity as a percent of tangible assets (2) / (3)
(e)   9.55 
%  9.41 
  Tangible common equity as a percent of tangible assets (1) / (3)
(e)
   8.59 
   8.43 
          Basel III
     Transitional(a)
Basel I
(b)   Risk-weighted assets (5)
  $  121,290 
 117,878 
           Ratio:                Tier I common equity (4) / (5)
    N/A   9.65 
%         Basel III Final Rule - Transition to Fully Phased-In
                CET1 capital (transitional)
  $  11,917 
  N/A    Less: Adjustments to CET1 capital from transitional to fully phased-in
(c)    (8)
  N/A    CET1 capital (fully phased-in) (6)
     11,909 
  N/A    Risk-weighted assets (transitional)
     121,290 
  N/A    Add: Adjustments to risk-weighted assets 
from transitional to fully phased-in
(d)    1,178 
  N/A    Risk-weighted assets (fully phased-in) (7)
  $  122,468 
  N/A    Estimated CET1 capital ratio under Basel 
III Final Rule (fully phased-in) (6) / (7)
    9.72 
% N/A    (a) Under the U.S. banking agencies™ Basel III Final Rule, assets and 
credit equivalent amounts of 
off-balance sheet exposures are 
calculated according to the standardized approach for risk-weighted 
assets. The resulting weighted values 
are added together resulting in the Ba
ncorp™s total risk-weighted assets. 
(b) This capital amount and ratio were calculated under the Supervis
ory Agencies general risk-based capital rules (Basel I) which w
ere in effect prior to January 1, 2015. 
(c) Primarily relates to disallowed intangible assets (other than go
odwill and MSRs, net of associated deferred tax liabilities). 
(d) Primarily relates to higher risk weighting for MSRs. 
(e) Excludes unrealized gains and losses.
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  23  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 
Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements provides 
a discussion of the significant new 
accounting standards adopted by 
the Bancorp during 2015 and the expected impact of significant 
accounting standards issued, but not yet required to be adopted.  
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
The Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in 
accordance with U.S. GAAP. Certain accounting policies require 

management to exercise judgment in determining methodologies, 

economic assumptions and estimates 
that may materially affect the 
Bancorp™s financial position, result
s of operations and cash flows. 
The Bancorp™s critical accounting po
licies include the accounting for the ALLL, reserve for unfunded commitments, income taxes, 

valuation of servicing rights, fair value measurements, goodwill and 

legal contingencies. No material ch
anges were made to the valuation 
techniques or models described below during the year ended 

December 31, 2015. 
 ALLL 
The Bancorp disaggregates its por
tfolio loans and leases into 
portfolio segments for purposes of determining the ALLL. The 

Bancorp™s portfolio segments include commercial, residential 

mortgage and consumer. The Banc
orp further disaggregates its 
portfolio segments into classes for purposes of monitoring and 

assessing credit quality based on certain risk characteristics. For an 

analysis of the Bancorp™s ALLL by portfolio segment and credit 

quality information by class, refer to Note 6 of the Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
The Bancorp maintains the ALLL to absorb probable loan 
and lease losses inherent in its portfolio segments. The ALLL is 

maintained at a level the Bancorp considers to be adequate and is 

based on ongoing quarterly assessments and evaluations of the 

collectability and historical loss experience of loans and leases. 

Credit losses are charged and recoveries are credited to the ALLL. 

Provisions for loan and lease losses are based on the Bancorp™s 
review of the historical credit lo
ss experience and such factors that, 
in management™s judgment, deserve consideration under existing 

economic conditions in estimating probable credit losses. The 

Bancorp™s strategy for credit risk management includes a 

combination of conservative exposure limits significantly below 

legal lending limits and conserva
tive underwriting, documentation 
and collections standards. The strategy also emphasizes 

diversification on a geographic, indu
stry and customer level, regular 
credit examinations and quarte
rly management reviews of large 
credit exposures and loans experi
encing deterioration of credit 
quality. 
The Bancorp™s methodology for determining the ALLL 
requires significant management judgement and is based on 

historical loss rates, current cred
it grades, specific allocation on 
loans modified in a TDR and impaired commercial credits above 

specified thresholds and other qualitative adjustments. Allowances 
on individual commercial loans, TD
Rs and historical loss rates are 
reviewed quarterly and adjusted 
as necessary based on changing 
borrower and/or collateral condit
ions and actual collection and 
charge-off experience. An unalloca
ted allowance is maintained to 
recognize the imprecision in estima
ting and measuring losses when 
evaluating allowances for individu
al loans or pools of loans. Larger commercial loans included
 within aggregate borrower 
relationship balances exceeding $1 
million that exhibit probable or 
observed credit weaknesses, as well as loans that have been 
modified in a TDR, are subject to
 individual review for impairment. 
The Bancorp considers the current value of collateral, credit quality 

of any guarantees, the guaranto
r™s liquidity and willingness to 
cooperate, the loan structure and other factors when evaluating 

whether an individual loan is impaired. Other factors may include 
the industry and geographic region of the borrower, size and 
financial condition of the borrower, cash flow and leverage of the 

borrower and the Bancorp™s evaluation of the borrower™s 

management. When individual lo
ans are impaired, allowances are 
determined based on management™s estimate of the borrower™s 
ability to repay the loan given the availability of collateral and other 
sources of cash flow, as well as an evaluation of legal options 

available to the Bancorp. Allo
wances for impaired loans are 
measured based on the present value 
of expected future cash flows 
discounted at the loan™s effective interest rate, fair value of the 

underlying collateral or readily obs
ervable secondary market values. 
The Bancorp evaluates the collectability of both principal and 

interest when assessing the need for a loss accrual. 
Historical credit loss rates are 
applied to commercial loans that 
are not impaired or are impaired
, but smaller than the established 
threshold of $1 million and thus not subject to specific allowance 

allocations. The loss rates are derived from a migration analysis, 

which tracks the historical net charge-off experience sustained on 

loans according to their internal risk grade. The risk grading system 

utilized for allowance analysis purpos
es encompasses ten categories. Homogenous loans and leases in the residential mortgage and 
consumer portfolio segments are not individually risk graded. 
Rather, standard credit scoring systems and delinquency monitoring 

are used to assess credit risks an
d allowances are established based 
on the expected net charge-offs. 
Loss rates are based on the trailing twelve month net charge-off history by loan category. Historical loss 

rates may be adjusted for certain pr
escriptive and qualitative factors 
that, in management™s judgment, are necessary to reflect losses 

inherent in the portfolio. Factors that management considers in the 
analysis include the effects of the national and local economies; 
trends in the nature and volume 
of delinquencies, charge-offs and 
nonaccrual loans; changes in loan mix; credit score migration 

comparisons; asset quality trends
; risk management and loan 
administration; changes in the in
ternal lending policies and credit 
standards; collection practices; an
d examination results from bank 
regulatory agencies and the Bancorp™s internal credit reviewers. 
The Bancorp™s primary market areas for lending are the 
Midwestern and Southeastern regi
ons of the United States. When 
evaluating the adequacy of allowances, consideration is given to 

these regional geographic concentrations and the closely associated 

effect changing economic conditions have on the Bancorp™s 

customers. Refer to the Allowance for Credit Losses subsection of the 
Risk Management section of 
MD&A for a discussion on the 
Bancorp™s ALLL sensitivity analysis. 
 Reserve for Unfunded Commitments 
The reserve for unfunded commitmen
ts is maintained at a level 
believed by management to be sufficient to absorb estimated 

probable losses related to unfunded credit facilities and is included 

in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The 

determination of the adequacy of the reserve is based upon an 

evaluation of the unfunded credit facilities, including an assessment 
of historical commitment utilization 
experience, credit risk grading 
and historical loss rates based on credit grade migration. This 

process takes into consideration the same risk elements that are 

analyzed in the determination of the adequacy of the Bancorp™s 

ALLL, as discussed above. Net adjustments to the reserve for 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  24  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 unfunded commitments are included in other noninterest expense 
in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
 Income Taxes The income tax laws of the jurisdictions in which the Bancorp 

operates are complex and may be subject to different 

interpretations. The Bancorp evaluates and assesses the relative risks 

and appropriate tax treatment of transactions and filing positions 

after considering relevant statutes, 
regulations, judicial decisions and 
other information. The Bancorp maintains tax accruals consistent 

with its evaluation of these items.  
Changes in the estimate of tax accruals occur periodically as a 
result of changes in tax rates, interpretation of tax laws and 
regulations, and other guidance issued by tax authorities and the 
status of examinations conducted by tax authorities, as well as the 

expiration of statutes of limitatio
ns. These changes may significantly 
impact the Bancorp™s tax accruals, deferred taxes and income tax 

expense and may significantly impact the operating results of the 

Bancorp.   
Deferred taxes are determined using the balance sheet method.  
Under this method, the net deferred tax asset or liability is calculated 
based on the difference between the book and tax bases of the 

assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates. Significant management 

judgment is required to determine the realizability of deferred tax 

assets. Deferred tax assets are recognized when management 

believes that it is more likely than not that the deferred tax assets 

will be realized. Where management has determined that it is not 

more likely than not that certain deferred tax assets will be realized, 
a valuation allowance is maintained. For additional information on 
income taxes, refer to Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated 

Financial Statements. 
 Valuation of Servicing Rights 
When the Bancorp sells loans through either securitizations or 

individual loan sales in accordance 
with its investment policies, it 
often obtains servicing rights. Servicing rights resulting from loan 
sales are initially recorded at fair
 value and subsequently amortized 
in proportion to, and over the period of, estimated net servicing 

revenue. Servicing rights are assessed for impairment monthly, 

based on fair value, with tempor
ary impairment recognized through 
a valuation allowance and other-than-temporary impairment 

recognized through a write-off of the servicing asset and related 

valuation allowance. Significant 
management judgement is necessary 
to identify key economic assumptions used in measuring any 
potential impairment of the servicing rights including the 
prepayment speeds of the underlyi
ng loans, the weighted-average 
life, the OAS spread and the weighted-average coupon rate, as 

applicable. The primary risk of material changes to the value of the 

servicing rights resides in the 
potential volatility in the economic 
assumptions used, particularly th
e prepayment speeds. The Bancorp 
monitors risk and adjusts its valuation allowance as necessary to 

adequately reserve for impairment 
in the servicing portfolio. In 
order to assist in this assess
ment, the Bancorp obtains external 
valuations of the MSR portfolio from third parties and participates 

in peer surveys that provide additional confirmation of the 
reasonableness of key assumptions utilized in the internal OAS 
model. For purposes of measuring impairment, the MSRs are 

stratified into classes based on the financial asset type (fixed-rate vs. 

adjustable-rate) and interest rates. For additional information on 
servicing rights, refer to Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated 
Financial Statements. 
 Fair Value Measurements 
The Bancorp measures certain fina
ncial assets and liabilities at fair 
value in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which defines fair value as the 

price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a 
liability in an orderly transaction be
tween market participants at the 
measurement date. Valuation techniques the Bancorp uses to 
measure fair value include the ma
rket approach, income approach 
and cost approach. The market appr
oach uses prices or relevant 
information generated by market tr
ansactions involving identical or 
comparable assets or liabilities. 
The income approach involves 
discounting future amounts to a si
ngle present amount and is based 
on current market expectations a
bout those future amounts. The 
cost approach is based on the amount that currently would be 
required to replace the service capacity of the asset. 
U.S. GAAP establishes a fair v
alue hierarchy, which prioritizes 
the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into 

three broad levels. The fair value hi
erarchy gives the highest priority 
to quoted prices in active market
s for identical assets or liabilities 
(Level 1) and the lowest priority 
to unobservable inputs (Level 3). A 
financial instrument™s categorization within the fair value hierarchy 

is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the 
instrument™s fair value measuremen
t. For additional information on 
the fair value hierarchy and fair value measurements, refer to Note 1 

of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
The Bancorp™s fair value measurements involve various 
valuation techniques and models, which involve inputs that are 

observable, when available. Valuation techniques and parameters 

used for measuring assets and liabilities are reviewed and validated 

by the Bancorp on a quarterly basis. Additionally, the Bancorp 
monitors the fair values of sign
ificant assets and liabilities using a 
variety of methods including the 
evaluation of pricing runs and 
exception reports based on certain an
alytical criteria, comparison to 
previous trades and overall review and assessments for 

reasonableness. The level of management judgement necessary to 

determine fair value varies based upon the methods used in the 

determination of fair value. Financial instruments that are measured 

at fair value using quoted prices in active markets (Level 1) require 
minimal judgement.  The valuati
on of financial instruments when 
quoted market prices are not available (Levels 2 and 3) may require 

significant management judgement 
to assess whether quoted prices 
for similar instruments exist, the impact of changing market 

conditions including reducing liquidity in the capital markets, and, 

the use of estimates surrounding 
significant unobservable inputs. 
Table 8 provides a summary of the fair value of financial 

instruments carried at fair va
lue on a recurring basis and the 
amounts of financial instruments valued using Level 3 inputs.    MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  25  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 8:  FAIR VALUE SUMMARY
 As of ($ in millions)
   December 31, 2015 
  December 31, 2014
       Balance 
 Level 3 
  Balance
 Level 3 
  Assets carried at fair value 
$ 31,364 
  444 
 24,917 
 535 
  As a percent of total assets 
  22 
% - 
 18 
 - 
Liabilities carried at fair value 
$ 967 
  64 
 1,064 
 51 
  As a percent of total liabilities 
  1 % - 
 1 
 - 
      Refer to Note 27 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for further information on fair value measurements including a 

description of the valuation met
hodologies used for significant 
financial instruments. 
 Goodwill
 Business combinations entered into 
by the Bancorp typically include 
the acquisition of goodwill. U.S. GAAP requires goodwill to be 

tested for impairment at the Bancorp™s reporting unit level on an 

annual basis, which for the Bancorp is September 30, and more 

frequently if events or circumst
ances indicate that there may be 
impairment. Refer to Note 1 of th
e Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements for a discussion on the methodology used by the 

Bancorp to assess goodwill for impairment. 
Impairment exists when a report
ing unit™s carrying amount of 
goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. In testing goodwill for 

impairment, U.S. GAAP permits the Bancorp to first assess 

qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not 

that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. 

In this qualitative assessment, 
the Bancorp evaluates events and 
circumstances which may include, bu
t are not limited to, the general 
economic environment, banking industry and market conditions, 
the overall financial performance of the Bancorp, the performance 
of the Bancorp™s stock, the key fi
nancial performance metrics of the 
reporting units and events affecting the reporting units to determine 

if it is not more likely than not that
 the fair value of a reporting unit 
is less than its carrying amount. If the two-step impairment test is 

required or the decision to bypass the qualitative assessment is 

elected, the Bancorp would be required to perform the first step 

(Step 1) of the impairment test by
 comparing the fair value of a 
reporting unit with its carrying am
ount, including goodwill. If the 
carrying amount of the reporting un
it exceeds its fair value, Step 2 
of the goodwill impairment test is performed to measure the 

amount of impairment loss, if any.  
The fair value of a reporting unit is the price that would be 
received to sell the unit as a whole in an orderly transaction between 

market participants at the measurement date. Since none of the 

Bancorp™s reporting units are publicly traded, individual reporting 
unit fair value determinations cannot be directly correlated to the 
Bancorp™s stock price. The determination of the fair value of a 

reporting unit is a subjective pr
ocess that involves the use of 
estimates and judgments, particularly related to cash flows, the 

appropriate discount rates and an applicable control premium. The 

Bancorp employs an income-based 
approach, utilizing the reporting unit™s forecasted cash flows (inclu
ding a terminal value approach to 
estimate cash flows beyond the final year of the forecast) and the 
reporting unit™s estimated cost of equity as the discount rate. 
Significant management judgment is 
necessary in the preparation of 
each reporting unit™s forecasted cash flows surrounding expectations 
for earnings projections, growth 
and credit loss expectations and 
actual results may differ from forecasted results. Additionally, the 

Bancorp determines its market ca
pitalization based on the average 
of the closing price of the Bancorp™s stock during the month 

including the measurement date, inco
rporating an additional control 
premium, and compares this market-based fair value measurement 
to the aggregate fair value of the 
Bancorp™s reporting units in order 
to corroborate the results of the income approach. 
When required to perform Step 2, the Bancorp compares the 
implied fair value of a reporting unit™s goodwill with the carrying 

amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount exceeds the implied 
fair value, an impairment loss e
qual to that excess amount is 
recognized. A recognized impairment loss cannot exceed the 

carrying amount of that goodwill and cannot be reversed in future 

periods even if the fair value of the reporting unit recovers. 
During Step 2, the Bancorp determines the implied fair value 
of goodwill for a reporting unit by assigning the fair value of the 

reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit (including 

any unrecognized intangible assets) 
as if the reporting unit had been 
acquired in a business combination. Significant management 
judgement is necessary in the identification and valuation of 

unrecognized intangible assets an
d the valuation of the reporting 
unit™s recorded assets and liabilities. The excess of the fair value of 

the reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and 

liabilities is the implied fair v
alue of goodwill. This assignment 
process is only performed for purposes of testing goodwill for 

impairment. The Bancorp does not adjust the carrying values of 
recognized assets or liabilities (oth
er than goodwill, if appropriate), 
nor does it recognize previously un
recognized intangible assets in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements as a result of this assignment 

process. Refer to Note 9 of th
e Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements for further information regarding the Bancorp™s 

goodwill. 

  Legal Contingencies
 The Bancorp and its subsidiaries are parties to numerous claims and 

lawsuits as well as threatened or potential actions or claims 

concerning matters arising from the conduct of its business 

activities. The outcome of claims or litigation and the timing of 

ultimate resolution are inherently difficult to predict and significant 

judgment may be required in the determination of both the 

probability of loss and whether the amount of the loss is reasonably 

estimable. The Bancorp™s estimate
s are subjective and are based on 
the status of legal and regulatory proceedings, the merit of the 
Bancorp™s defenses and consultation with internal and external legal 

counsel. An accrual for a potential 
litigation loss is established when 
information related to the loss contingency indicates both that a loss 

is probable and that the amount of 
loss can be reasonably estimated. 
Refer to Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

for further information regarding the Bancorp™s legal proceedings.
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  26  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 RISK FACTORS 
The risks listed below present risks that could have a material 
impact on the Bancorp™s financial condition, the results of its 
operations, or its business.  
 RISKS RELATING TO ECONOMIC AND MARKET 
CONDITIONS 
Weakness in the U.S. economy, including within Fifth Third™s 
geographic footprint, has adversely affected Fifth Third in the 
past and may adversely affect
 Fifth Third in the future. 
If the strength of the U.S. economy in general or the strength of the 
local economies in which Fifth Third conducts operations declines, 
this could result in, among other things, a deterioration in credit 

quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect 

on Fifth Third™s loan portfolio and ALLL and in the receipt of 

lower proceeds from the sale of loans and foreclosed properties. 

These factors could result in higher delinquencies, greater charge-

offs and increased losses in future
 periods, which could materially 
adversely affect Fifth Third™s financial condition and results of 
operations. 
 Global financial conditions could hamper economic recovery 
or contribute to recessionary eco
nomic conditions and severe 
stress in the financial markets, including in the United States. 
Should the U.S. economic recovery be adversely impacted by 
these factors, the likelihood for loan and asset growth at U.S. 
financial institutions, like Fifth Third, may deteriorate.
 The global financial markets continue to be strained as a result of 
economic slowdowns, geopolitical con
cerns and the related path of 
commodity prices and interest rates. Divergence in economic 

growth in the U.S. and internat
ional economies and the resulting differences in monetary policy are placing strains on financial 

markets and strengthening the U.S.
 dollar. The relative strength of 
the U.S. dollar may continue to negatively impact the U.S. 

manufacturing sector. These factor
s could negatively impact the 
U.S. economy and affect the stabilit
y of global financial markets.   Changes in interest rates could 
affect Fifth Third™s income and 
cash flows. Fifth Third™s income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the 

difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning 

assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates 

paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. 
These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond 
Fifth Third™s control, including general economic conditions and the 

policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies (in 

particular, the FRB). Changes in monetary policy, including changes 

in interest rates, will influenc
e the origination of loans, the 
prepayment speed of loans, the purchase of investments, the 

generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and 

investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of 
funding. The impact of these changes may be magnified if Fifth 
Third does not effectively manage the relative sensitivity of its assets 

and liabilities to changes in market 
interest rates. Fluctuations in 
these areas may adversely affect Fifth Third and its shareholders. 

 Changes and trends in the capi
tal markets may affect Fifth 
Third™s income and cash flows. Fifth Third enters into and m
aintains trading and investment 
positions in the capital market
s on its own behalf and manages 
investment positions on behalf of its customers. These investment 

positions include derivative financial instruments. The revenues and 

profits Fifth Third derives from ma
naging proprietary and customer 
trading and investment positions are dependent on market prices. 
Market changes and trends may re
sult in a decline in investment 
advisory revenue or investment or trading losses that may impact 
Fifth Third. Losses on behalf of its customers could expose Fifth 
Third to litigation, credit risks or
 loss of revenue from those clients 
and customers. Additionally, losses in Fifth Third™s trading and 

investment positions could lead to a loss with respect to those 

investments and may adversely affect cash flows and funding costs. 
 Problems encountered by financial institutions larger than or 
similar to Fifth Third could adversely affect financial markets 
generally and have direct and indirect adverse effects on Fifth 
Third.  
 Fifth Third has exposure to counterp
arties in the financial services 
industry and other industries, an
d routinely executes transactions with such counterparties, includ
ing brokers and dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other 

institutional clients. Many of Fift
h Third™s transactions with other 
financial institutions expose Fifth Third to credit risk in the event of 
default of a counterparty or client. In addition, Fifth Third™s credit 
risk may be affected when the collateral it holds cannot be realized 

or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of 

the loan or derivative exposure. The commercial soundness of many 

financial institutions may be closely 
interrelated as a result of credit, 
trading, clearing or other relations
hips between the institutions. As a 
result, concerns about, or a defa
ult or threatened default by, one 
institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit 
problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes 
referred to as ﬁsystemic riskﬂ and may adversely affect financial 

intermediaries, such as clearing 
agencies, clearing houses, banks, 
securities firms and exchanges, wi
th which the Bancorp interacts on 
a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect Fifth Third. 
 Fifth Third™s stock price is volatile. 
Fifth Third™s stock price has been volatile in the past and several 
factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. 
These factors include: 
 Actual or anticipated variations in earnings; 
 Changes in analysts™ recommendations or projections; 
 Fifth Third™s announcements of developments related to 
its businesses; 
 Operating and stock performance of other companies 
deemed to be peers;  
 Actions by government regulators; 
 New technology used or services offered by traditional 
and non-traditional competitors; 
 News reports of trends, concerns and other issues related 
to the financial services industry;  Natural disasters; 
 Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism 
or military conflicts.  The price for shares of Fifth Third™s common stock may 
fluctuate significantly in the futu
re, and these fluctuations may be 
unrelated to Fifth Third™s performance. General market price 
declines or market volatility in th
e future could adversely affect the 
price for shares of Fifth Third™s common stock, and the current 

market price of such shares may not
 be indicative of future market 
prices. 
   MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  27  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Changes in retail distribution strategies and consumer 
behavior may adversely impact Fifth Third™s investments in its 
bank premises and equipment and other assets and may lead 
to increased expenditures to ch
ange its retail distribution 
channel.
 Fifth Third has significant investments in bank premises and 
equipment for its branch network 
including its 1,254 full-service 
banking centers, 56 parcels of land held for the development of 

future banking centers, as well as its retail work force and other 

branch banking assets. Advances in technology such as e-commerce, 

telephone, internet and mobile banking, and in-branch self-service 

technologies including automatic teller machines and other 

equipment, as well as changing cu
stomer preferences for these other 
methods of accessing Fifth Third™s products and services, could 
affect the value of Fifth Third™s branch network or other retail 
distribution assets and may cause it 
to change its retail distribution 
strategy, close and/or sell certain branches or parcels of land held 

for development and restructure or
 reduce its remaining branches 
and work force. Further advances in technology and/or changes in 

customer preferences could have additional changes in Fifth Third™s 

retail distribution strategy and/or branch network. These actions 

could lead to losses on these assets or could adversely impact the 
carrying value of other long-lived assets and may lead to increased 
expenditures to renovate and reconf
igure remaining branches or to 
otherwise reform its retail distribution channel. 
 
RISKS RELATING TO FIFTH THIRD™S GENERAL 

BUSINESS Deteriorating credit quality has adversely impacted Fifth 
Third in the past and may adversely impact Fifth Third in the 
future. When Fifth Third lends money or commits to lend money the 
Bancorp incurs credit risk or the risk of loss if borrowers do not 

repay their loans. The credit performance of the loan portfolios 

significantly affects the Bancorp™s 
financial results and condition. If 
the current economic environment were to deteriorate, more 

customers may have difficulty in 
repaying their loans or other 
obligations which could result in a higher level of credit losses and 
reserves for credit losses. Fifth Third reserves for credit losses by 
establishing reserves through a charge to earnings. The amount of 

these reserves is based on Fifth Third™s assessment of credit losses 

inherent in the loan portfolio including unfunded credit 

commitments. The process for determining the amount of the 

ALLL and the reserve for unfunded 
commitments is critical to Fifth 
Third™s financial results and condition. It requires difficult, 

subjective and complex judgments a
bout the environment, including 
analysis of economic or market conditions that might impair the 
ability of borrowers to repay their loans. 
Fifth Third might underestimate the credit losses inherent in its 
loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount 

reserved. Fifth Third might increase the reserve because of changing 

economic conditions, including falling home prices or higher 

unemployment, or other factors such as changes in borrower™s 

behavior. As an example, borrowers
 may "strategically default," or 
discontinue making payments on their real estate-secured loans if 
the value of the real estate is less 
than what they owe, even if they 
are still financially able to make the payments.  
Fifth Third believes that both the ALLL and the reserve for 
unfunded commitments are adequate to cover inherent losses at 

December 31, 2015; however, there is no assurance that they will be 

sufficient to cover future credit 
losses, especially if housing and 
employment conditions worsen. In the event of significant 
deterioration in economic conditions, Fifth Third may be required 
to increase reserves in future periods, which would reduce earnings. 
For more information, refer to the Credit Risk Management 
subsection of the Risk Manag
ement section of MD&A and the 
Allowance for Loan and Losses and Reserve for Unfunded 

Commitments subsections of th
e Critical Accounting Policies 
section of MD&A. 
 Fifth Third must maintain adequate sources of funding and 
liquidity. 
Fifth Third must maintain adequa
te funding sources in the normal 
course of business to support it
s operations and fund outstanding 
liabilities, as well as meet regulatory expectations. Fifth Third 

primarily relies on bank deposits to
 be a low cost and stable source 
of funding for the loans Fifth Third makes and the operations of 

Fifth Third™s business. Core depos
its, which include transaction 
deposits and other time deposits, have historically provided Fifth 
Third with a sizeable source of relatively stable and low-cost funds 

(average core deposits funded 71% of average total assets at 

December 31, 2015). In addition to 
customer deposits, sources of 
liquidity include investments in the 
securities portfolio, Fifth Third™s 
sale or securitization of loans in 
secondary markets and the pledging 
of loans and investment securities to access secured borrowing 

facilities through the FHLB and the FRB, and Fifth Third™s ability 
to raise funds in domestic and 
international money and capital 
markets. Fifth Third™s liquidity and ability to fund and run the business 
could be materially adversely affected by a variety of conditions and 

factors, including financial and credit market disruptions and 

volatility or a lack of market or
 customer confidence in financial 
markets in general similar to what occurred during the financial 

crisis in 2008 and early 2009, which may result in a loss of customer 
deposits or outflows of cash or collateral and/or ability to access 
capital markets on favorable terms.  
Other conditions and factors that could materially adversely 
affect Fifth Third™s liquidity and funding include a lack of market or 

customer confidence in Fifth Third or negative news about Fifth 

Third or the financial services industry generally which also may 

result in a loss of deposits and/or negatively affect the ability to 

access the capital markets; the loss of customer deposits to 
alternative investments;  inability to 
sell or securitize loans or other 
assets, increased regulatory requirements, and reductions in one or 

more of Fifth Third™s credit rating
s. A reduced credit rating could 
adversely affect Fifth Third™s ability to borrow funds and raise the 

cost of borrowings substantially and could cause creditors and 

business counterparties to raise co
llateral requirements or take other 
actions that could adversely aff
ect Fifth Third™s ability to raise 
capital. Many of the above conditi
ons and factors may be caused by 
events over which Fifth Third has little or no control such as what 
occurred during the financial crisis
. While market conditions have 
stabilized and, in many cases, improved, there can be no assurance 

that significant disruption and volat
ility in the financial markets will 
not occur in the future. 
Recent regulatory changes relating to liquidity and risk 
management may also negatively impact Fifth Third™s results of 

operations and competitive positi
on. Various regulations recently 
adopted or proposed, and additional regulations under 
consideration, impose or could impose more stringent liquidity 

requirements for large financial inst
itutions, including Fifth Third.  
These regulations address, among other matters, liquidity stress 

testing, minimum liquidity requir
ements and restrictions on short-
term debt issued by top-tier holding companies. Given the overlap 

and complex interactions of these regulations with other regulatory 

changes, including the resolution and recovery framework 
applicable to Fifth Third, the full impact of the adopted and 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  28  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 proposed regulations will remain
 uncertain until their full 
implementation.  If Fifth Third is unable to co
ntinue to fund assets through 
customer bank deposits or access capital markets on favorable terms or if Fifth Third suffers an increase in borrowing costs or otherwise 
fails to manage liquidity effectively; then Fifth Third™s liquidity, 

operating margins, and financi
al results and condition may be materially adversely affected. As Fifth Third did during the financial 

crisis, it may also need to rais
e additional capital through the 
issuance of stock, which could dilute the ownership of existing 

stockholders, or reduce or even eliminate common stock dividends 

to preserve capital. 
 Fifth Third may have more credit 
risk and higher credit losses 
to the extent loans are concentrated by location or industry of 
the borrowers or collateral. 
Fifth Third™s credit risk and credit losses can increase if its loans are 

concentrated to borrowers engaged in
 the same or similar activities 
or to borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or 

disproportionately affected by 
economic or market conditions. 
Deterioration in economic condit
ions, housing conditions and 
commodity and real estate values in
 these states and generally across 
the country could result in materially higher credit losses.   Fifth Third may be required to repurchase residential 
mortgage loans or reimburse investors and others as a result of 
breaches in contractual representations and warranties. 
Fifth Third sells residential mort
gage loans to various parties, 
including GSEs and other financial institutions that purchase 
residential mortgage loans for investment or private label 

securitization. Fifth Third may be 
required to repurchase residential 
mortgage loans, indemnify the secu
ritization trust, investor or 
insurer, or reimburse the securitiza
tion trust, investor or insurer for 
credit losses incurred on loans in the event of a breach of 

contractual representations or warra
nties that is not remedied within 
a specified period (usually 60 days or less) after Fifth Third receives 
notice of the breach. Contracts for 
residential mortgage loan sales to 
the GSEs include various types of specific remedies and penalties 

that could be applied to inadequate responses to repurchase 

requests. If economic conditions and the housing market deteriorate 

or future investor repurchase d
emand and Fifth Third™s success at 
appealing repurchase requests diffe
r from past experience, Fifth 
Third could have increased repurc
hase obligations and increased 
loss severity on repurchases, requiring material additions to the 
repurchase reserve.  
 If Fifth Third does not appropriately adjust to rapid changes 
in the financial services industry, its financial performance 
may suffer. 
Fifth Third™s ability to deliver strong financial performance and 

returns on investment to shareholde
rs will depend in part on its 
ability to expand the scope of available financial services to meet the 
needs and demands of its customers. In addition to the challenge of 
competing against other banks in attracting and retaining customers 

for traditional banking services, Fifth Third™s competitors also 
include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment 

advisors, and specialty finance, 
telecommunications, technology and 
insurance companies who seek to 
offer one-stop financial services 
that may include services that banks have not been able or allowed 

to offer to their customers in the past or may not be currently able 
or allowed to offer. This increasi
ngly competitive environment is 
primarily a result of changes in 
regulation, changes in technology 
and product delivery systems, as well as the accelerating pace of 

consolidation among financial serv
ice providers. Fifth Third may 
make strategic investments and may expand an existing line of 
business or enter into new lines of business to remain competitive. 
If it does not execute the appr
opriate strategies to effectively 
compete with or does not do so in an appropriate or timely manner 

its business may suffer. Additionally, 
these strategies, products and 
lines of business may bring with them unforeseeable or unforeseen 
risks and may not generate the exp
ected results or returns, which 
could adversely affect Fifth Third™
s results of operations or future 
growth prospects. 

 If Fifth Third is unable to grow its deposits, it may be subject 
to paying higher funding costs. 
The total amount that Fifth Third pays for funding costs is 
dependent, in part, on Fifth Third™s ability to grow its deposits. If 
Fifth Third is unable to sufficiently grow its deposits to meet 

liquidity objectives, it may be subject 
to paying higher funding costs.  
Fifth Third competes with banks and other financial services 

companies for deposits. If competitors raise the rates they pay on 

deposits, Fifth Third™s funding costs may increase, either because 

Fifth Third raises rates to avoid losing deposits or because Fifth 

Third loses deposits and must rely on more expensive sources of 
funding. Higher funding costs reduce Fifth Third™s net interest 
margin and net interest income. Fifth Third™s bank customers could 

take their money out of the Bank and put it in alternative 

investments, causing Fifth Third to lose a lower cost source of 

funding. Checking and savings acco
unt balances and other forms of 
customer deposits may decrease when customers perceive 

alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a 

better risk/return tradeoff.   The Bancorp™s ability to receive dividends from its 
subsidiaries accounts for most of its revenue and could affect 
its liquidity and ability to pay dividends. 
  Fifth Third Bancorp is a separate and distinct legal entity from its 

subsidiaries. Fifth Third Bancorp typically receives substantially all 

of its revenue from dividends from
 its subsidiaries. These dividends 
are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on Fifth Third 
Bancorp™s stock and interest and principal on its debt. Various 
federal and/or state laws and regulations, as well as regulatory 

expectations, limit the amount of dividends that the Bancorp™s 

banking subsidiary and certain
 nonbank subsidiaries may pay. 
Regulatory scrutiny of capital levels at bank holding companies and 

insured depository institution subsidiaries has increased since the 

financial crisis and has resulted in increased regulatory focus on all 

aspects of capital planning, including dividends and other 
distributions to shareholders of 
banks such as the parent bank 
holding companies. Also, Fifth Third Bancorp™s right to participate 

in a distribution of assets upon 
a subsidiary™s liquidation or 
reorganization is subject to the pr
ior claims of that subsidiary™s 
creditors. Limitations on the Bancorp™s ability to receive dividends 

from its subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on its 

liquidity and ability to pay dividends on stock or interest and 

principal on its debt. For further information refer to Note 3 of the 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 The financial services industry
 is highly competitive and 
creates competitive pressures that could adversely affect Fifth 
Third™s revenue and profitability.  
 The financial services industry in which Fifth Third operates is 

highly competitive. Fifth Third competes not only with commercial 

banks, but also with insurance 
companies, mutual funds, hedge 
funds, telecommunications and 
technology and other companies 
offering financial services in the U.S., globally and over the internet. 

Fifth Third competes on the basis of several factors, including 

capital, access to capital, revenu
e generation, products, services, 
transaction execution, innovation, 
reputation and price. Over time, 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  29  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 certain sectors of the financial serv
ices industry have become more 
concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial 

services have been acquired by or merged into other firms. These 

developments could result in Fifth Third™s competitors gaining 

greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of 

products and services and geogra
phic diversity. Fifth Third may 
experience pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some 
of its competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. 

 Fifth Third and/or the holders of its securities could be 
adversely affected by unfavorabl
e ratings from rating agencies. 
 Fifth Third™s ability to access the capital markets is important to its 

overall funding profile. This access is affected by the ratings 

assigned by rating agencies to Fift
h Third, certain of its subsidiaries 
and particular classes of securities 
they issue. The interest rates that 
Fifth Third pays on its securities are also influenced by, among 

other things, the credit ratings that it, its subsidiaries and/or its 

securities receive from recognized
 rating agencies. A downgrade to 
Fifth Third or its subsidiaries™ credit
 rating could affect its ability to 
access the capital markets, increase its borrowing costs and 

negatively impact its profitability. A ratings downgrade to Fifth 

Third, its subsidiaries or their secu
rities could also create obligations 
or liabilities to Fifth Third under the terms of its outstanding 
securities that could increase Fifth Third™s costs or otherwise have a 

negative effect on its results of 
operations or financial condition. 
Additionally, a downgrade of the credit rating of any particular 

security issued by Fifth Third or
 its subsidiaries could negatively 
affect the ability of the holders of 
that security to sell the securities 
and the prices at which any such securities may be sold.  
 Fifth Third could suffer if it fails to attract and retain skilled 
personnel. 
Fifth Third™s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract 

and retain key individuals. Competition for qualified candidates in 

the activities and markets that Fifth Third serves is great, which may 

increase Fifth Third™s expenses an
d may result in Fifth Third not 
being able to hire these candidates 
or retain them. If Fifth Third is 
not able to hire or retain these key individuals, Fifth Third may be 
unable to execute its business strategies and may suffer adverse 
consequences to its business, operations and financial condition. Compensation paid by financial institutions such as Fifth Third 
has become increasingly regulated, particularly under the DFA, 

which regulation affects the am
ount and form of compensation 
Fifth Third pays to hire and retain talented employees. If Fifth 

Third is unable to attract and ret
ain qualified employees, or do so at 
rates necessary to maintain its competitive position, or if 
compensation costs required to attract and retain employees 
become more expensive, Fifth Third™s performance, including its 

competitive position, could be materially adversely affected.  

 Fifth Third™s mortgage banking revenue can be volatile from 
quarter to quarter. 
Fifth Third earns revenue from the fees it receives for originating 

mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. When rates rise, 
the demand for mortgage loans tends to fall, reducing the revenue 
Fifth Third receives from loan originations. At the same time, 

revenue from MSRs can increase through increases in fair value. 

When rates fall, mortgage originations tend to increase and the value 

of MSRs tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect. 

Even though the origination of mortgage loans can act as a ﬁnatural 

hedge,ﬂ the hedge is not perfect, either in amount or timing. For 

example, the negative effect on revenue from a decrease in the fair 
value of residential MSRs is immediate, but any offsetting revenue 
benefit from more originations and the MSRs relating to the new 
loans would accrue over time. It is 
also possible that even if interest 
rates were to fall, mortgage originations may also fall or any increase 

in mortgage originations may not be enough to offset the decrease 

in the MSRs value caused by the lower rates.  
Fifth Third typically uses derivatives and other instruments to 
hedge its mortgage banking interest rate risk. Fifth Third generally 
does not hedge all of its risks, and the fact that Fifth Third attempts 
to hedge any of the risks does not mean Fifth Third will be 

successful. Hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated 

models and constant monitoring. Fifth Third may use hedging 

instruments tied to U.S. Treasury
 rates, LIBOR or Eurodollars that 
may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. 

Fifth Third could incur significant losses from its hedging activities. 
There may be periods where Fifth Third elects not to use derivatives 
and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk.  
 Fifth Third uses models for business planning purposes that 
may not adequately predict future results. 
Fifth Third uses financial models to aid in its planning for various 

purposes including its capital and 
liquidity needs, potential charge- 
offs, reserves, and other purposes. The models used may not 

accurately account for all variables th
at could affect future results, 
may fail to predict outcomes accurately and/or may overstate or 
understate certain effects. As a 
result of these potential failures, 
Fifth Third may not adequately prepare for future events and may 

suffer losses or other setbac
ks due to these failures.  Changes in interest rates could 
also reduce the value of MSRs.
 Fifth Third acquires MSRs when it
 keeps the servicing rights after 
the sale or securitization of the lo
ans that have been originated or 
when it purchases the servicing rights to mortgage loans originated 
by other lenders. Fifth Third initially measures all residential MSRs 

at fair value and subsequently am
ortizes the MSRs in proportion to, 
and over the period of, estimated net servicing income. Fair value is 

the present value of estimated future net servicing income, 

calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions 

about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. Servicing rights 

are assessed for impairment monthly, based on fair value, with 
temporary impairment recognized through a valuation allowance 
and other-than-temporary impairmen
t recognized through a write-
off of the servicing asset and related valuation allowance. 
Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions 
and thus fair value. When interest
 rates fall, borrowers are usually 
more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a 

lower rate. As the likelihood of pr
epayment increases, the fair value 
of MSRs can decrease. Each quarter Fifth Third evaluates the fair 
value of MSRs, and decreases in fair value below amortized cost 
reduce earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs. 
 The preparation of Fifth Third™s financial statements requires 
the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. 
The preparation of consolidated fi
nancial statements in conformity 
with U.S. GAAP requires managemen
t to make significant estimates 
that affect the financial statements. If new information arises that 
results in a material change to 
a reserve amount, such a change 
could result in a change to previously announced financial results. 

Refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section of MD&A for 

more information regarding management™s significant estimates.  
   MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  30  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Changes in accounting standards or interpretations could 
impact Fifth Third™s reported earnings and financial 
condition. 
The accounting standard setters, including the FASB, the SEC and 
other regulatory agencies, periodically change the financial 
accounting and reporting standards 
that govern the preparation of 
Fifth Third™s consolidated financial statements. These changes can 

be hard to predict and can materially impact how Fifth Third 

records and reports its financial c
ondition and results of operations. 
In some cases, Fifth Third could be required to apply a new or 

revised standard retroactively, whic
h would result in the recasting of 
Fifth Third™s prior period financial statements.  
 Future acquisitions may dilute current shareholders™ 
ownership of Fifth Third and may cause Fifth Third to 
become more susceptible to
 adverse economic events. 
Future business acquisitions could be material to Fifth Third and it 
may issue additional shares of st
ock to pay for those acquisitions, 
which would dilute current shareholders™ ownership interests. 

Acquisitions also could require Fifth Third to use substantial cash or 
other liquid assets or to incur debt. In those events, Fifth Third 
could become more susceptible to economic downturns and 

competitive pressures. 

 Difficulties in combining the operations of acquired entities 
with Fifth Third™s own operations may prevent Fifth Third 
from achieving the expected benefits from its acquisitions. 
Inherent uncertainties exist when 
integrating the operations of an 
acquired entity. Fifth Third may not be able to fully achieve its 
strategic objectives and planned operating efficiencies in an 

acquisition. In addition, the markets and industries in which Fifth 

Third and its potential acquisition targets operate are highly 

competitive. Fifth Third may lose customers or the customers of 

acquired entities as a result of an acquisition. Future acquisition and 

integration activities may require Fifth Third to devote substantial 

time and resources and as a result Fifth Third may not be able to 
pursue other business opportunities.   
After completing an acquisition, Fifth Third may find certain 
items are not accounted for properl
y in accordance with financial 
accounting and reporting standards. Fifth Third may also not realize 

the expected benefits of the acquisition due to lower financial 

results pertaining to the acquired entity. For example, Fifth Third 

could experience higher charge-o
ffs than originally anticipated 
related to the acquired loan portfolio.  Fifth Third may sell or consider selling one or more of its 
businesses. Should it determine 
to sell such a business, it may 
not be able to generate gains on sale or related increase in 
shareholders™ equity commensurate with desirable levels. 
Moreover, if Fifth Third sold 
such businesses, the loss of 
income could have an adverse effect on its earnings and future 
growth. 
Fifth Third owns, or owns a minorit
y stake in, as applicable, several 
non-strategic businesses that are not 
significantly synergistic with its 
core financial services businesses. 
Fifth Third has, from time to 
time, considered and undertaken (a
nd, in the case of Vantiv, has 
announced its intention to continue) the sale of such businesses 

and/or interests, including, for example, portions of Fifth Third™s 

stake in Vantiv Holding, LLC. If 
it were to determine to sell such 
businesses and/or interests, Fifth Th
ird would be subject to market 
forces that may make completion of a sale unsuccessful or may not 
be able to do so within a desirabl
e time frame. If Fifth Third were to 
complete the sale of any of its businesses and/or interests in third 

parties, it would suffer the loss of income from the sold businesses 

and/or interests, including those 
accounted for under the equity 
method of accounting, and such loss of income could have an 
adverse effect on its future earn
ings and growth. Additionally, Fifth 
Third may encounter difficulties in separating the operations of any 

businesses it sells, which may aff
ect its business or results of 
operations. 
 Fifth Third relies on its system
s and certain service providers, 
and certain failures could materially adversely affect 
operations. 
Fifth Third collects, processes and stores sensitive consumer data by 

utilizing computer systems and 
telecommunications networks 
operated by both Fifth Third and third party service providers. Fifth 
Third has security, backup and recove
ry systems in place, as well as 
a business continuity plan to ensure the systems will not be 

inoperable. Fifth Third also has s
ecurity to prevent unauthorized 
access to the systems. In addition, Fifth Third requires its third party 

service providers to maintain similar controls. However, Fifth Third 

cannot be certain that the measures will be successful. A security 

breach in the systems and loss of confidential information such as 

credit card numbers and related information could result in losing 
the customers™ confidence and thus the loss of their business as well 
as additional significant costs for 
privacy monitoring activities.  Fifth Third™s necessary dependence upon automated systems to 
record and process its transaction volume poses the risk that 

technical system flaws or employee errors, tampering or 

manipulation of those systems w
ill result in losses and may be 
difficult to detect. Fifth Third may 
also be subject to disruptions of 
its operating systems arising from events that are beyond its control 
(for example, computer viruses or
 electrical or telecommunications 
outages).  Third parties with which the Banc
orp does business, as well as 
retailers and other third parties wi
th which the Bancorp™s customers 
do business, can also be sources of operational risk to the Bancorp, 

particularly where activities of customers are beyond the Bancorp™s 

security and control systems, such as through the use of the 

internet, personal computers, tablets, smart phones and other 
mobile services. Security breaches affecting the Bancorp™s 
customers, or systems breakdowns or
 failures, security breaches or 
employee misconduct affecting such other third parties, may require 

the Bancorp to take steps to protect the integrity of its own 

operational systems or to safeguard confidential information of the 

Bancorp or its customers, thereby increasing the Bancorp™s 

operational costs and potentially dimi
nishing customer satisfaction. 
If personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or 
clients in the Bancorp™s possession were to be mishandled or 
misused, the Bancorp could 
suffer significant regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss. Such 

mishandling or misuse could include circumstances where, for 

example, such information was err
oneously provided to parties who 
are not permitted to have the info
rmation, either through the fault 
of the Bancorp™s systems, employees or counterparties, or where 

such information was intercepted or otherwise compromised by 
third parties. The Bancorp may be
 subject to disruptions of its 
operating systems arising from even
ts that are wholly or partially 
beyond the Bancorp™s control, which may include, for example, 

security breaches; electrical or te
lecommunications outages; failures 
of computer servers or other damage to the Bancorp™s property or 

assets; natural disasters or severe weather conditions; health 

emergencies; or events arising from
 local or larger-scale political 
events, including outbreaks of hostilities or terrorist acts. While the 
Bancorp believes that its current resiliency plans are both sufficient 
and adequate, there can be no assu
rance that such plans will fully 
mitigate all potential business continuity risks to the Bancorp or its 

customers and clients. Any failures
 or disruptions of the Bancorp™s 
systems or operations could give rise to losses in service to 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  31  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 customers and clients, adversely 
affect the Bancorp™s business and 
results of operations by subjecting the Bancorp to losses or liability, 

or require the Bancorp to expend significant resources to correct 

the failure or disruption, as we
ll as by exposing the Bancorp to 
litigation, regulatory fines or penalties or losses not covered by 

insurance.  Fifth Third is exposed to cyber-security risks, including denial 
of service, hacking, and identity theft.  
Fifth Third relies heavily on 
communications and information 
systems to conduct its business. Any failure, interruption or breach 

in security of these systems could result in disruptions to its 

accounting, deposit, loan and other 
systems, and adversely affect its 
customer relationships. While Fifth Third has policies and 
procedures designed to prevent or limit the effect of these possible 
events, there can be no assurance th
at any such failure, interruption 
or security breach will not occur or, 
if any does occur, that it can be 
sufficiently remediated. There have been increasing efforts on the 

part of third parties, including thro
ugh cyber attacks, to breach data 
security at financial institutions or with respect to financial 

transactions. There have been se
veral recent instances involving 
financial services and consumer-b
ased companies reporting the 
unauthorized disclosure of client or customer information or the 
destruction or theft of corporate 
data, by both private individuals 
and foreign governments. In addition, because the techniques used 

to cause such security breaches change frequently, often are not 

recognized until launched against 
a target and may originate from 
less regulated and remote areas around the world, Fifth Third may 

be unable to proactively address 
these techniques or to implement 
adequate preventative measures. Furthermore, there has been a well-
publicized series of apparently related distributed denial of service 
attacks on large financial services companies, including Fifth Third 

Bank. Distributed denial of service 
attacks are designed to saturate 
the targeted online network with excessive amounts of network 

traffic, resulting in slow respons
e times, or in some cases, causing 
the site to be temporarily unavailable. These events adversely 

affected the performance of Fifth Third™s website and in some 

instances prevented customers from accessing Fifth Third™s website. 
Future cyber-attacks could be more disruptive and damaging. Cyber 
threats are rapidly evolving and Fifth Third may not be able to 

anticipate or prevent all such attacks. Fifth Third may incur 

increasing costs in an effort to minimize these risks or in the 

investigation of such cyber-attacks 
or related to the protection of 
the Bancorp™s customers from identity theft as a result of such 

attacks. Despite this effort, the occurrence of any failure, 

interruption or security breach of
 Fifth Third™s systems or third-
party service providers, particularly if widespread or resulting in 
financial losses to customers, could also seriously damage Fifth 

Third™s reputation, result in a loss of
 customer business, subject it to 
additional regulatory scrutiny, or 
expose it to civil litigation and 
financial liability. 

 Fifth Third is exposed to operational and reputational risk. 
Fifth Third is exposed to many types of operational risk, including 
but not limited to, business c
ontinuity risk, information 
management risk, fraud risk, model risk, third party service provider 
risk, human resources risk, and process risk.  
Fifth Third™s actual or alleged conduct in activities, such as 
lending practices, data security, corporate governance and 

acquisitions, may result in negati
ve public opinion and may damage 
Fifth Third™s reputation. Actions 
taken by government regulators 
and community organizations ma
y also damage Fifth Third™s 
reputation. Additionally, whereas ne
gative public opinion once was 
primarily driven by adverse news coverage in traditional media, the 
advent and expansion of social media facilitates the rapid 
dissemination of information. Thou
gh Fifth Third monitors social 
media channels, the potential remains for rapid and widespread 

dissemination of inaccurate, mislea
ding or false information that 
could damage Fifth Third™s reputa
tion. Negative public opinion can 
adversely affect Fifth Third™s ability to attract and keep customers 
and can increase the risk that it will be a target of litigation and 
regulatory action.  
 The results of Vantiv Holding, LLC could have a negative 
impact on Fifth Third™s operating results and financial 
condition. 
In 2009, Fifth Third sold an approximate 51% interest in its 

processing business, Vantiv Holding, LLC (formerly Fifth Third 
Processing Solutions). As a result of additional share sales 
completed by Fifth Third in 20
13, 2014 and 2015, the Bancorp™s 
ownership share in Vantiv Holding, LLC as of December 31, 2015, 

is approximately 18%. The Bancorp™s investment in Vantiv Holding, 

LLC is currently accounted for under the equity method of 

accounting and is not consolidated based on Fifth Third™s remaining 

ownership share in Vantiv Holdin
g, LLC. Vantiv Holding, LLC™s 
operating results could be poor and could negatively affect the 
operating results of Fifth Third. 
In addition, Fifth Third owns a 
warrant to acquire approximatel
y 7.8 million Class C non-voting 
units of Vantiv Holding, LLC. Fi
fth Third participates in a multi-
lender credit facility to Vantiv Holding, LLC and repayment of these 

loans is contingent on the future 
cash flows of Vantiv Holding, 
LLC.  

 Changes in Fifth Third™s ownership in Vantiv Holding, LLC 
could have an impact on Fifth Third™s stock price, operating 
results, financial condition, and future outlook.  
Fifth Third expects that it will reduce its equity and derivative 

investments in Vantiv Holding, LLC and its publicly traded parent, 

Vantiv, Inc., in whole or in part, 
but there can be no assurance that 
such sales will occur or as to wh
en they will occur or the value that 
might be received by Fifth Third. A reduction in Fifth Third™s 

Vantiv ownership interest may result from a series of sale 
transactions similar to transactions
 in Vantiv securities engaged in 
by Fifth Third to date, or could occur as a result of one or more 

larger transactions, depending on st
rategic considerations, market 
conditions, or other factors d
eemed important by Fifth Third. 
Additionally, Fifth Third™s ownership 
in Vantiv could be affected by 
transactions that Vantiv may undertake. The nature, terms, and 

timing of transactions engaged in
 by Vantiv may not be entirely 
within Fifth Third™s control, if 
at all. If and when Fifth Third™s 
ownership in Vantiv is reduced, 
such changes in ownership could 
have a material impact, positive or negative, on Fifth Third™s stock 

price, operating results, financ
ial condition and future outlook.
  Weather related events or other natural disasters may have an 
effect on the performance of Fifth Third™s loan portfolios, 
especially in its coastal markets, thereby adversely impacting 
its results of operations. 
Fifth Third™s footprint stretches from the upper Midwestern to 

lower Southeastern regions of the United States. These regions have 

experienced weather events includ
ing hurricanes and other natural 
disasters. The nature and level of these events and the impact of 

global climate change upon their frequency and severity cannot be 

predicted. If large scale events o
ccur, they may significantly impact 
its loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral as 

well as impairing its borrowers™ 
ability to repay their loans.   MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  32  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 RISKS RELATED TO THE LEGAL AND REGULATORY 
ENVIRONMENT 
As a regulated entity, the Bancor
p is subject to certain capital 
requirements that may limit its operations and potential 
growth.  
 The Bancorp is a bank holding company and a financial holding 

company. As such, it is subject to
 the comprehensive, consolidated 
supervision and regulation of the FRB, including risk-based and 

leverage capital requirements, investment practices, dividend policy 

and growth. The Bancorp must m
aintain certain risk-based and 
leverage capital ratios as required by the FRB which can change 

depending upon general economic conditions and the Bancorp™s 
particular condition, risk profile
 and growth plans. Compliance with 
the capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit 
operations that require the inte
nsive use of capital and could 
adversely affect the Bancorp™s ability to expand or maintain present 

business levels. 
In July 2013, the Federal banking agencies issued final rules for 
the enhanced regulatory capital requirements for U.S. banking 

organizations, which implemented 
aspects of Basel III. The final 
rules provide the option for certain
 banking organizations, including 
the Bancorp, to opt out of includ
ing AOCI in regulatory capital and 
retain the treatment of residential mortgage exposures consistent 

with the current Basel I capital rules. The new capital rules became 

effective for the Bancorp on January 1, 2015, subject to phase-in 

periods for certain components and other provisions. The need to 

maintain more and higher quality ca
pital as well as greater liquidity 
could limit Fifth Third™s business activities, including lending, and 
the ability to expand, either orga
nically or through acquisitions. 
Moreover, although these new requi
rements are being phased in 
over time, U.S. federal banking agencies have been taking into 

account expectations regarding the ability of banks to meet these 

new requirements, including under stressed conditions, in approving 

actions that represent uses of capit
al, such as dividend increases and 
share repurchases.  
The Bank must be well-capitalized, well-managed and maintain 
at least a "Satisfactory" CRA rati
ng for the Bancorp to retain its 
status as a financial holding company. Failure to meet these 

requirements could result in th
e FRB placing limitations or 
conditions on the Bancorp's activities (and the commencement of 

new activities, including merger with or acquisitions of other 

financial institutions) and could ultimately result in the loss of 

financial holding company status. The FRB conducted a regularly 

scheduled examination covering 2011 through 2013 to determine 
the Bancorp's banking subsidiary's compliance with the CRA. 
Although the FRB has not made a final determination, the Bancorp 

believes that the results of such CRA examination may result in a 

rating of "Needs to Improve". If 
that would occur, such rating 
would last at least until the Bancorp's banking subsidiary's next CRA 

examination.  
In addition, failure by the Bancorp™s banking subsidiary to meet 
applicable capital guidelines could subject the Bank to a variety of 
enforcement remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities. 
These include limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the 

issuance by the regulatory authority of
 a capital directive to increase 
capital, and the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC.  
 Fifth Third™s business, financial condition and results of 
operations could be adversely affected by new or changed 
regulations and by the manner in which such regulations are 
applied by regulatory authorities. 
 Previous economic conditions, partic
ularly in the financial markets, 
have resulted in government regulatory agencies placing increased 

focus on and scrutiny of the fina
ncial services industry. The U.S. 
government has intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding 
to what has been commonly referred to as the financial crisis, by 
introducing various actions and passing legislation such as the DFA. 

Such programs and legislation 
subject Fifth Third and other 
financial institutions to restrictio
ns, oversight and/or costs that may 
have an impact on Fifth Third™s bu
siness, financial condition, results 
of operations or the price of its common stock.  
New proposals for legislation and regulations continue to be 
introduced that could further substantially increase regulation of the 

financial services industry. Fifth Third cannot predict whether any 

pending or future legislation will 
be adopted or the substance and 
impact of any such new legislation on Fifth Third. Additional 

regulation could affect Fifth Third in a substantial way and could 
have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and 
results of operations.    
 Fifth Third is subject to various regulatory requirements that 
may limit its operations and potential growth. 
Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety 
and soundness of insured depository institutions and their holding 

companies, the FRB, the FDIC, the CFPB and the Ohio Division of 
Financial Institutions have the author
ity to compel or restrict certain 
actions by Fifth Third and its banking subsidiary. Fifth Third and its 

banking subsidiary are subject to 
such supervisory authority and, 
more generally, must, in certain instances, obtain prior regulatory 

approval before engaging in certain 
activities or corporate decisions. 
There can be no assurance that such approvals, if required, would 

be forthcoming or that such approvals would be granted in a timely 

manner. Failure to receive any such approval, if required, could limit 
or impair Fifth Third™s operations, restrict its growth and/or affect 
its dividend policy. Such actions 
and activities subject to prior 
approval include, but are not limited 
to, increasing dividends paid by Fifth Third or its banking subsidiary, entering into a merger or 

acquisition transaction, acquiring 
or establishing new branches, and 
entering into certain new businesses. 
 In addition, Fifth Third, as well as other financial institutions 
more generally, have recently been subjected to increased scrutiny 
from government authorities, incl
uding bank regulatory authorities, 
stemming from broader systemic regulatory concerns, including 

with respect to stress testing, capital levels, asset quality, 

provisioning, AML/BSA, consumer compliance and other 

prudential matters and efforts to ensure that financial institutions 

take steps to improve their risk
 management and prevent future 
crises. In this regard, government
 authorities, including the bank 
regulatory agencies, are also pursuing aggressive enforcement 
actions with respect to compliance 
and other legal matters involving 
financial activities, which heightens the risks associated with actual 

and perceived compliance failures and may also adversely affect 

Fifth Third™s ability to enter into certain transactions or engage in 

certain activities, or obtain necessary regulatory approvals in 

connection therewith.  
In some cases, regulatory agencies may take supervisory actions 
that may not be publicly disclosed, which restrict or limit a financial 
institution. Finally, as part of Fifth Third™s regular examination 
process, Fifth Third™s and its 
banking subsidiary™s respective 
regulators may advise it and its banking subsidiary to operate under 

various restrictions as a prudent
ial matter. Such supervisory actions 
or restrictions, if and in whatever manner imposed, could negatively 

affect Fifth Third™s ability to enga
ge in new activities and certain 
transactions, as well as have a material adverse effect on Fifth 

Third™s business and results of ope
rations and may not be publicly 
disclosed.    MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  33  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved 
from time to time in information-gathering requests, 
investigations and proceedings by various governmental 
regulatory agencies and law en
forcement authorities, as well 
as self-regulatory agencies 
which may lead to adverse 
consequences. 
Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved from 

time to time in information-gathering requests, reviews, 

investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by 

governmental regulatory agencies 
and law enforcement authorities, as well as self-regulatory agencies, regarding their respective 

businesses. Such matters may result in material adverse 

consequences, including without limitation, adverse judgments, 

settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other actions, 
amendments and/or restatements of Fifth Third™s SEC filings 
and/or financial statements, as app
licable, and/or determinations of 
material weaknesses in its disclo
sure controls and procedures.   Deposit insurance premiums levied against Fifth Third Bank 
may increase if the number of 
bank failures increase or the 
cost of resolving failed banks increases.  
The FDIC maintains a DIF to protect insured depositors in the 
event of bank failures. The DIF 
is funded by fees assessed on 
insured depository institutions including Fifth Third Bank. Under a 

rule adopted by the FDIC in 2011, regular assessment rates for all 

banks will decline when the reserve ratio reaches 1.15%, which the 

FDIC expects will occur in early 2016. In October 2015, the FDIC 

issued a proposed rule which would impose on banks with at least 

$10 billion in assets, such as Fifth Third, a surcharge of 4.5 cents per $100 of their assessment base, after making certain adjustments. The 
Bancorp estimates the impact of 
these changes will increase Fifth 
Third™s FDIC premiums by approximately $25 million per year. 

Future deposit premiums paid by Fifth Third Bank depend on 

FDIC rules, which are subject to change, the level of the DIF and 

the magnitude and cost of future bank failures. Fifth Third Bank 

may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums if 

market developments change such that the DIF balance is reduced 

or the FDIC changes its rules to require higher premiums.  
 Fifth Third is subject to extensive governmental regulation 
which could adversely impact Fifth Third or the businesses in 
which Fifth Third is engaged. 
 Fifth Third is subject to extensive state and federal regulation, 

supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of its 

operations and limit the businesses in which Fifth Third may 

engage. These laws and regulations may change from time to time 
and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers and 
depositors. The impact of any changes to laws and regulations or 

other actions by regulatory agencies may negatively impact Fifth 

Third or its ability to increase th
e value of its business. Additionally, 
actions by regulatory agencies or significant litigation against Fifth 

Third could cause it to devote 
significant time and resources to defending itself and may lead to penalties that materially affect Fifth 

Third and its shareholders. Future 
changes in the laws, including tax 
laws, or regulations or their inte
rpretations or enforcement may also 
be materially adverse to Fifth Third and its shareholders or may 

require Fifth Third to expend significant time and resources to 

comply with such requirements. The DFA, enacted in 2010, is co
mplex and broad in scope and 
several of its provisions are still being implemented.  The DFA 

established the CFPB which has authority to regulate consumer 
financial products and services sold by banks and non-bank 
companies and to supervise banks with assets of more than $10 
billion and their affiliates for compliance with Federal consumer 
protection laws. Since its format
ion, the CFPB has finalized a 
number of significant rules that could have a significant impact on 

Fifth Third™s business and the financial services industry more 

generally including integrated mortgage disclosures under the Truth 

in Lending Act and the Real Esta
te Settlement Procedures Act. 
Compliance with the rules and policies adopted by the CFPB may 
limit the products Fifth Third may 
permissibly offer to customers, 
or limit the terms on which those products may be issued, or may 

adversely affect Fifth Third™s ability to conduct its business as 

previously conducted. Fifth Third may also be required to add 

additional compliance personnel or incur other significant 

compliance-related expenses. Fifth 
Third™s business, results of 
operations or competitive position 
may be adversely affected as a 
result.  The reforms, both under the DFA and otherwise, are having a 
significant effect on the entire financial industry. Fifth Third 

believes compliance with the DFA and implementing its regulations 

and other initiatives will likely continue to negatively impact revenue 

and increase the cost of doing business, both in terms of transition 

expenses and on an ongoing basis, and may also limit Fifth Third™s 

ability to pursue certain desirabl
e business opportunities. Any new 
regulatory requirements or changes to existing requirements could 
require changes to Fifth Third™s businesses, result in increased 
compliance costs and affect the pr
ofitability of such businesses. 
Additionally, reform could affect the behaviors of third parties that 

Fifth Third deals with in the course of business, such as rating 

agencies, insurance companies and investors. The extent to which 
Fifth Third can adjust its strategies
 to offset such adverse impacts 
also is not known at this time.  
 Conforming Covered Activities to the Volcker Rule may 
require the expenditure of resources and management 
attention.  
The DFA ﬁVolcker Ruleﬂ provisions implementing the final rule 

generally restrict banks and their affiliated entities from investing in 

or sponsoring certain private equity and hedge funds.  Fifth Third 

does not sponsor any private equity or hedge funds that it is 

prohibited from sponsoring.  As of December 31, 2015, the 
Bancorp had approximately $186 million in interests and 
approximately $37 million in binding commitments to invest in 

private equity funds likely to be affected by the Volcker Rule. It is 

expected that the Bancorp may need to dispose of these 

investments although it is likely 
that these investments will be 
reduced over time in the ordinary course before compliance is 

required. In December 2014, the FRB extended the conformance 

period through July 2016 for invest
ments in and relationships with 
such covered funds that were in
 place prior to December 31, 2013, 
and announced its intention to grant a one year extension of the 

conformance period until July 21, 2017. An ultimate forced sale of 

some of these investments could result in Fifth Third receiving less 

value than it would otherwise have received. 
 If an orderly liquidation of 
a systemically important bank 
holding company or non-bank financial company were 
triggered, Fifth Third could face assessments for the Orderly 
Liquidation Fund. 
The DFA creates authority for the orderly liquidation of 

systemically important bank hol
ding companies and non-bank 
financial companies and is based on the FDIC™s bank resolution 

model. The Secretary of the U.S. 
Treasury may trigger a liquidation 
under this authority only after consultation with the President of the 

United States and after receiving a recommendation from the 
boards of the FDIC and the Federal Reserve upon a two-thirds 
vote. Liquidation proceedings will be funded by the Orderly 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  34  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Liquidation Fund established under the DFA, which will borrow 
from the U.S. Treasury and impose risk-based assessments on 

covered financial companies. Risk
-based assessments would be 
made, first, on entities that received more in the resolution than they 
would have received in the liquidati
on to the extent of such excess, 
and second, if necessary, on, among others, bank holding companies 

with total consolidated assets of 
$50 billion or more, such as Fifth 
Third. Any such assessments may adversely affect Fifth Third™s 

business, financial conditi
on or results of operations. 
 Regulation of Fifth Third by the CFTC imposes additional 
operational and compliance costs. 
Title VII of DFA imposes a new regulatory regime on the U.S. 

derivatives markets. While most of the provisions related to 

derivatives markets are now in effect, several additional 

requirements await final regulations
 from the relevant regulatory 
agencies for derivatives, the CFTC
 and the SEC. One aspect of this 
new regulatory regime for derivatives is that substantial oversight 

responsibility has been provided to the CFTC, which, as a result, 

now has a meaningful supervisory role
 with respect to some of Fifth 
Third™s businesses. In 2014, Fifth Th
ird Bank registered as a swap 
dealer with the CFTC and became subject to new substantive 

requirements, including real time trade reporting and robust record 

keeping requirements, business conduct requirements (including 

daily valuations, disclosure of material risks associated with swaps 

and disclosure of material incentive
s and conflicts of interest), and 
mandatory clearing and exchange trading of all standardized swaps 

designated by the relevant regulatory agencies as required to be 
cleared. Although the ultima
te impact will depend on the 
promulgation of all final regulations, Fifth Third‚s derivatives 

business will likely be further 
subject to new substantive 
requirements, including margin requirements in excess of current 

market practice and capital requir
ements specific to this business. 
These requirements will collectively impose implementation and 

ongoing compliance burdens on Fifth Third and will introduce 

additional legal risk (including as a result of newly applicable 
antifraud and anti-manipulation pr
ovisions and private rights of 
action). Once finalized, the rules may raise the costs and liquidity 

burden associated with Fifth Th
ird™s derivatives businesses and adversely affect or cause Fifth 
Third to change its derivatives 
products. 
 Fifth Third and/or its affiliates
 are or may become the subject 
of litigation which could result in legal liability and damage to 
Fifth Third™s reputation.  
Fifth Third and certain of its directors and officers have been 
named from time to time as defendants in various class actions and 

other litigation relating to Fifth Thir
d™s business and activities. Past, 
present and future litigation have included or could include claims 

for substantial compensatory and/or 
punitive damages or claims for 
indeterminate amounts of damages.
 The SEC may seek admissions 
of liability when settling cases, which could adversely impact the 
defense of private litigation. These matters could result in material 
adverse judgments, settlements, fines,
 penalties, injunctions or other 
relief, amendments and/or restatements of Fifth Third™s SEC filings 

and/or financial statements, as app
licable and/or determinations of 
material weaknesses in its disclosure controls and procedures. Like 

other large financial institutions an
d companies, Fifth Third is also 
subject to risk from potential 
employee misconduct, including non-
compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of 
confidential information. Substantial legal liability or significant 
regulatory action against Fifth Third could materially adversely 

affect its business, financial cond
ition or results of operations 
and/or cause significant reputational harm to its business. 
 Fifth Third™s ability to pay or increase dividends on its 
common stock or to repurchase its capital stock is restricted. 
Fifth Third™s ability to pay dividend
s or repurchase stock is subject 
to regulatory requirements and the need to meet regulatory 
expectations. Fifth Third is subject
 to an annual assessment by the 
FRB as part of CCAR. The mandatory elements of the capital plan 

are an assessment of the expected use and sources of capital over 

the planning horizon, a description of all planned capital actions 

over the planning horizon, a discussion of any expected changes to 

the Bancorp™s business plan that are likely to have a material impact 

on its capital adequacy or liquidity
, a detailed description of the 
Bancorp™s process for assessing capital adequacy and the Bancorp™s 
capital policy. Fifth Third™s stress testing results and 2016 capital 
plan will be submitted to the FRB by April 5, 2016. 
The FRB™s review of the capital plan will assess the 
comprehensiveness of the capital plan, the reasonableness of the 

assumptions and the analysis underlying the capital plan. 

Additionally, the FRB will review 
the robustness of the capital 
adequacy process, the capital policy and the Bancorp™s ability to 

maintain capital above the minimu
m regulatory capital ratios and 
above a CET1 ratio of 5% under baseline and stressful conditions 
throughout a nine-quarter planning horizon.  
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  35  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 STATEMENTS OF INCOME ANALYSIS 
Net Interest Income 
Net interest income is the interest earned on loans and leases 
(including yield-related fees), securities and other short-term 

investments less the interest paid for core deposits (includes 
transaction deposits and other time deposits) and wholesale funding 
(includes certificates $100,000 an
d over, other deposits, federal 
funds purchased, other short-term
 borrowings and long-term debt). 
The net interest margin is calculated by dividing net interest income 

by average interest-earning assets. 
Net interest rate spread is the 
difference between the average yield earned on interest-earning 

assets and the average rate paid 
on interest-bearing liabilities. Net 
interest margin is typically greater than net interest rate spread due 
to the interest income earned on those assets that are funded by 
noninterest-bearing liabilities, or 
free funding, such as demand 
deposits or shareholders™ equity. 
Table 9 presents the components of net interest income, net 
interest margin and net interest rate spread for the years ended 

December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. N
onaccrual loans and leases 
and loans held for sale have been 
included in the average loan and 
lease balances. Average outstanding 
securities balances are based on 
amortized cost with any unrealize
d gains or losses on available-for-
sale securities included in other assets. Table 10 provides the relative 

impact of changes in the balance sheet and changes in interest rates 

on net interest income.  
Net interest income on an FTE basis was $3.6 billion for both 
the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014. Net interest income 

was negatively impacted by a decrease in the net interest rate spread, 

changes made to the Bancorp™s deposit advance product beginning 
January 1, 2015 and an increase in average long-term debt of $1.7 
billion for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year 

ended December 31, 2014. These negative impacts were partially 

offset by increases in average taxable securities and average loans 

and leases of $5.2 billion and $2.2
 billion, respectively, for the year 
ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 

31, 2014. The net interest rate spread decreased to 2.69% during the 

year ended December 31, 2015 from 2.94% in 2014 driven by a 21 
bps decrease in yields on average interest-earning assets coupled 
with a 3 bps increase in the rates paid on average interest-bearing 

liabilities. 
Net interest margin on an FTE basis was 2.88% for the year 
ended December 31, 2015 compared to 3.10% for the year ended 

December 31, 2014. The decrease from December 31, 2014 was 

driven primarily by the previous
ly mentioned decrease in the net 
interest rate spread coupled with a $7.6 billion increase in average 
interest-earning assets partially offset
 by an increase in average free 
funding balances. The increase in
 average free funding balances was 
driven by increases in average demand deposits and average 

shareholders™ equity of $3.4 b
illion and $572 million, respectively, 
for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended 

December 31, 2014.  
Interest income on an FTE basis from loans and leases 
decreased $147 million compared to the year ended December 31, 
2014 primarily due to a decrease of 24 bps in yields on average loans 
and leases partially offset by an in
crease of 2% in average loans and 
leases. The decrease in yields for the year ended December 31, 2015 

was primarily due to a $93 million decline in interest income on 

other consumer loans and leases pr
imarily due to changes made to 
the Bancorp™s deposit advance product beginning January 1, 2015. 

The decrease also included decreases in yields on average 

commercial and industrial loans, av
erage residential mortgage loans 
and average automobile loans of 14 bps, 19 bps and 11 bps, 
respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the 

year ended December 31, 2014. The increase in average loans and 
leases for the year ended December
 31, 2015 was driven primarily 
by increases in average commerc
ial loans and leases and average 
residential mortgage loans. For more information on the Bancorp™s 

loan and lease portfolio, refer to 
the Loans and Leases subsection of 
the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A. Interest income from 
investment securities and other short-term investments increased 

$145 million compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 

primarily as a result of the aforementioned increase in average 

taxable securities.  
Interest expense on core deposits decreased $15 million for the 
year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended 

December 31, 2014 as a decline in the cost of average interest-
bearing core deposits more than 
offset an increase in average 
interest-bearing core deposits. The cost of average interest-bearing 

core deposits decreased to 24 bps for the year ended December 31, 

2015 from 27 bps for the year ended December 31, 2014. Average 

interest-bearing core deposits increased $2.4 billion for the year 

ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 

31, 2014. The increase was primarily due to increases in average 

money market deposits. Refer to the Deposits subsection of the 
Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A for additional information 
on the Bancorp™s deposits. 
Interest expense on average wholesale funding increased $59 
million for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year 

ended December 31, 2014 primarily due to a $1.7 billion increase in 

average long-term debt coupled with a 18 bps increase in the rates 

paid on average long-term debt. Refer to the Borrowings subsection 

of the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A for additional 
information on the Bancorp™s borrowings. During both the years 
ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, 
average wholesale funding 
represented 24% of average interest-bearing liabilities. For more 

information on the Bancorp™s interest rate risk management, 

including estimated earnings sensitiv
ity to changes in market interest 
rates, see the Market Risk Ma
nagement subsection of the Risk 
Management section of MD&A.  
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  36  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 9: CONSOLIDATED AVERAGE BALANCE SHEET AND ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME
  For the years ended December 31
  2015 
 2014 
   2013 
             Average        Average 
           Average        Average 
 Revenue/ 
Yield/ 
 Average 
Revenue/ 
Yield/ 
    Average  
Revenue/ 
Yield/ 
($ in millions)
    Balance
  Cost Rate 
 Balance 
 Cost Rate 
      Balance 
 Cost Rate 
 Assets                                        Interest-earning assets:
                                      Loans and leases:
(a)
                                       Commercial and industrial loans
  $ 42,594 
$1,334 
 3.13% $41,178 
$1,346
 3.27 
%   $37,770 
$1,361 
 3.60
%  Commercial mortgage loans
    7,121 
227 
 3.19   7,745 
260
 3.36 
    8,481 
306 
 3.60
  Commercial construction loans
    2,717 
86 
 3.17   1,492 
51 3.44 
    793 
27 
 3.45
  Commercial leases
    3,796 
106  2.78
   3,585 
108
 3.01 
    3,565 
116 
 3.26
Total commercial loans and leases
    56,228 
1,753 
 3.12   54,000 
1,765
3.27 
    50,609 
1,810 
3.58
   Residential mortgage loans
    13,798 509 
 3.69
   13,344 
518
 3.88 
    14,428 
564 
 3.91
   Home equity    8,592 
312 
 3.63
   9,059 
336
 3.71 
    9,554 
355 
 3.71
   Automobile loans
    11,847 
315 
 2.66
   12,068 
334
 2.77 
    12,021 
373 
 3.10
   Credit card    2,303 
237 
 10.27   2,271 
227
 9.98 
    2,121 
209 
 9.87
   Other consumer loans and leases
    571 
45 
 8.00
   385 
138
 35.99 
    360 
155 
 42.93
 Total consumer loans and leases
    37,111 
1,418  3.82
   37,127 
1,553
4.18 
    38,484 
1,656 
4.30
 Total loans and leases
    93,339 
3,171 
 3.40
   91,127 
3,318
3.64 
    89,093 
3,466 
3.89
 Securities:
                                Taxable 
    26,932 
867 
 3.22
   21,770 
722
 3.32 
    16,395 
518 
 3.16
   Exempt from income taxes
(a)   55 
3  5.23
   53 
3 4.94 
    49 
3  5.29
 Other short-term investments
    3,258 
8  0.25
   3,043 
8 0.26 
    2,417 
6  0.26
 Total interest-earning assets
    123,584 
4,049 
3.28
   115,993 
4,051
3.49 
    107,954 
3,993 
3.70
 Cash and due from banks
    2,608 
        2,892 
        2,482 
   Other assets    15,212 
        14,539 
        15,053 
   Allowance for loan and lease losses
    (1,293)        (1,481)
        (1,757)
   Total assets
  $ 140,111 
       $131,943 
        $123,732 
   Liabilities and Equity
                              Interest-bearing liabilities:
                                Interest checking deposits
  $ 26,160 
$50 
 0.19% $25,382 
$56 0.22 
%   $23,582 
$53 
 0.23
%  Savings deposits
    14,951 9  0.06
  16,080 
16 0.10 
    18,440 
22 
 0.12
   Money market deposits
    18,152 44 
 0.24
  14,670 
51 0.35 
    9,467 
23 
 0.25
   Foreign office deposits
    817 
1  0.16  1,828 
5 0.29 
    1,501 
4  0.28
   Other time deposits
    4,051 
49 
 1.20  3,762 
40 1.06 
    3,760 
50 
 1.33
 Total interest-bearing core deposits
    64,131 
153  0.24
  61,722 
168
 0.27 
    56,750 
152 
 0.27
   Certificates $100,000 and over
    2,869 
33 
 1.16  3,929 
34 0.85 
    6,339 
50 
 0.78
   Other deposits
    57 
-  0.16  - - 0.02 
    17 
-  0.11
   Federal funds purchased
    920 
1  0.13  458 
- 0.09 
    503 
1  0.12
   Other short-term borrowings
    1,721 
2  0.12  1,873 
2 0.10 
    3,024 
5  0.18
   Long-term debt
    14,677 306 
 2.09
  12,928 
247
 1.91 
    7,914 
204 
 2.58
 Total interest-bearing liabilities 
  84,375 
495 
 0.59
  80,910 
451
0.56 
    74,547 
412 
0.55
 Demand deposits 
  35,164 
       31,755 
        29,925 
   Other liabilities 
  4,672 
       3,950 
        4,917 
   Total liabilities 
  124,211 
       116,615 
        109,389 
   Total equity 
  15,900        15,328 
        14,343 
   Total liabilities and equity 
$ 140,111 
       $131,943 
        $123,732 
   Net interest income (FTE) 
    $3,554 
        $3,600
       $3,581 
    Net interest margin (FTE) 
       2.88
%      3.10 
%     3.32
%Net interest rate spread (FTE) 
       2.69
       2.94 
      3.15
 Interest-bearing liabilities to interest-earning assets 
   68.27
      69.75 
         69.05
 (a) The FTE adjustments included in the above table were 
$21
 for both the years ended 
December 31, 2015
 and 2014 and $20 for the year ended December 31, 2013. 
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  37  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 10: CHANGES IN NET INTEREST INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO VOLUME AND YIELD/RATE
(a)
    For the years ended December 31
  2015 Compared to 2014
 2014 Compared to 2013
 ($ in millions)
    Volume Yield/Rate
Total 
Volume 
Yield/Rate
Total    Assets                           Interest-earning assets:
                           Loans and leases:
                             Commercial and industrial loans
  $  45 
 (57)
  (12)
   116 
 (131)
  (15)
    Commercial mortgage loans
     (21)
 (12)
  (33)
     (26)
 (20)
  (46)
    Commercial construction loans
     39 
 (4)
  35 
     24 
 - 
  24
    Commercial leases
     6 
 (8)
  (2)
     1 
 (9)
  (8)
  Total commercial loans and leases
     69 
 (81)
  (12)
     115 
 (160)
 (45)
    Residential mortgage loans
     17 
 (26)
  (9)
     (42)
 (4)
  (46)
    Home equity     (17)
 (7)
  (24)
     (18)
 (1)
  (19)
    Automobile loans
     (5)
 (14)
  (19)
     1 
 (40)
  (39)
    Credit card     3 
 7  10 
     16 
 2 
  18
    Other consumer loans and leases
     47 
 (140)
  (93)
     9 
 (26)
  (17)
  Total consumer loans and leases
     45 
 (180)
  (135)
     (34)
 (69)
 (103)
  Total loans and leases
     114 
 (261)
  (147)
     81 
 (229)
 (148)
  Securities:
                   Taxable 
     167 
 (22)
  145 
     177 
 27 
  204
  Other short-term investments
     - 
 -  - 
     2 
 - 
  2  Total change in interest income
  $  281 
 (283)
  (2)
   260 
 (202)
 58
  Liabilities                 Interest-bearing liabilities:
                   Interest checking deposits
  $  2 
 (8)
  (6)
   3 
 - 
  3    Savings deposits
     (1)
 (6)
  (7)
   (2)
 (4)
  (6)
    Money market deposits
     10 
 (17)
  (7)
   16 
 12 
  28
    Foreign office deposits
     (2)
 (2)
  (4)
   1 
 - 
  1    Other time deposits
     3 
 6  9 
   - 
 (10)
  (10)
  Total interest-bearing core deposits
     12 
 (27)
 (15)
     18 
 (2)
 16
    Certificates $100,000 and over
     (11)
 10
  (1)
   (20)
 4 
  (16)
    Federal funds purchased
     1 
 -  1 
   (1)
 - 
  (1)
    Other short-term borrowings
     - 
 -  - 
   (1)
 (2)
  (3)
    Long-term debt
     35 
 24
  59 
   106 
 (63)
  43
  Total change in interest expense
     37 
 7  44 
   102 
 (63)
 39
  Total change in net interest income
  $  244 
 (290)
  (46)
   158 
 (139)
  19
  (a) Changes in interest not solely due to volume or yield/rate are al
located in proportion to the absolute dollar amount of change 
in volume and yield/rate. 
Provision for Loan and Lease Losses 
The Bancorp provides as an expense an amount for probable losses 
within the loan and lease portf
olio that is based on factors 
previously discussed in the Critical Accounting Policies section of 

MD&A. The provision is recorded
 to bring the ALLL to a level 
deemed appropriate by the Bancorp to cover losses inherent in the 
portfolio. Actual credit losses on loans and leases are charged 
against the ALLL. The amount of loans actually removed from the 

Consolidated Balance Sheets is referred to as charge-offs. Net 

charge-offs include current period charge-offs less recoveries on 

previously charged-off loans and leases. The provision for loan and lease losses was $396 million for 
the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to $315 million for 

the same period in the prior year. The increase in provision expense 
for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the prior year 
was primarily due to the restructuring of a student loan backed 
commercial credit originated in 2
007, a broadening global economic 
slowdown, stress on capital market
s and the prolonged softness in 
commodity prices. The ALLL declined $50 million from December 

31, 2014 to $1.3 billion at December 31, 2015. At December 31, 

2015, the ALLL as a percent of portf
olio loans and leases decreased 
to 1.37%, compared to 1.47% at December 31, 2014.  Refer to the Credit Risk Management subsection of the Risk 
Management section of MD&A as well as Note 6 of the Notes to 

Consolidated Financial Statements for more detailed information on 

the provision for loan and lease losse
s, including an analysis of loan 
portfolio composition, nonperforming assets, net charge-offs and 

other factors considered by the Bancorp in assessing the credit 

quality of the loan and lease portfolio and the ALLL. 
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  38  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Noninterest Income
 Noninterest income increased $530 million for the year ended Decemb
er 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014. Th
e following table presents the components of noninterest income:  
         TABLE 11: COMPONENTS OF NONINTEREST INCOME
                   For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
 2015 
 2014 
 2013  
2012  
2011  
Service charges on deposits 
$ 563 
 560 
 549 
 522 
 520
  Investment advisory revenue 
  418 
 407 
 393 
 374 
 375
  Corporate banking revenue 
  384 
 430 
 400 
 413 
 350
  Mortgage banking net revenue 
  348 
 310 
 700 
 845 
 597
  Card and processing revenue 
  302 
 295 
 272 
 253 
 308
  Other noninterest income 
  979 
 450 
 879 
 574 
 250
  Securities gains, net 
  9 
 21 
 21 
 15 
 46
  Securities gains, net - non-qualifying hedges on mortgage service rights 
  - 
 - 
 13 
 3 
 9  Total noninterest income 
$ 3,003 
 2,473 
 3,227 
 2,999 
 2,455
          Service charges on deposits 
Service charges on deposits increased $3 million for the year ended 

December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 

due primarily to a $3 million increase in commercial deposit fees. 

The increase in commercial deposit fees was driven by an increase 
in activity from existing customers and new customer acquisition.  
 
Investment advisory revenue 
Investment advisory revenue increased $11 million for the year 

ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 

31, 2014. The increase was primarily 
due to an increase of $6 million 
in recurring securities brokerage f
ees driven by higher sales volume 
and an increase of $5 million in private client service fees due to an 
increase in personal asset management fees. The Bancorp had 
approximately $297 billion and $308 billion in total assets under care 

as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and managed $26 

billion and $27 billion in assets fo
r individuals, corporations and 
not-for-profit organizations as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, 
respectively.  Corporate banking revenue 
Corporate banking revenue decreased $46 million for the year ended 
December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 
2014. The decrease from the prior year was primarily the result of a 

decrease in syndication and lease remarketing fees. Syndication fees 

decreased $29 million compared to the year ended December 31, 

2014 as a result of decreased activity in the market and the 

Bancorp™s reduced leveraged loan appetite. The decrease in lease 

remarketing fees included the impact of impairment charges of $36 

million related to certain operating lease equipment that was 
recognized during the year ended December 31, 2015. The 
decreases for the year ended December 31, 2015 were partially 

offset by higher institutional sale
s revenue and gains on the sale of 
operating lease equipment. 
           Mortgage banking net revenu
e Mortgage banking net revenue increased $38 million for the yea
r ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31,
 2014. The 
following table presents the component
s of mortgage banking net revenue:
             TABLE 12: COMPONENTS OF MO
RTGAGE BANKING NET REVENUE
                For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
  2015 
   2014  
 2013  
Origination fees and gains on loan sales 
$171     153 
   453 
  Net mortgage servicing revenue: 
                  Gross mortgage servicing fees 
 222 
    246 
   251 
    MSR amortization 
 (139)    (119)
   (166)
    Net valuation adjustments on MSRs and free-standing derivatives  
                    entered into to economically hedge MSRs 
 94 
    30 
   162 
  Net mortgage servicing revenue 
 177     157 
   247 
  Mortgage banking net revenue 
$348 
    310 
   700 
              Origination fees and gains on loan
 sales increased $18 million for 
the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended 

December 31, 2014 primarily as the result of an 11% increase in 

residential mortgage loan originations. Residential mortgage loan 

originations increased to $8.3 billion for the year ended December 
31, 2015 from $7.5 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014 
due to strong refinancing activity that occurred during the year 

ended December 31, 2015.  
Net mortgage servicing revenue is comprised of gross 
mortgage servicing fees and related MSR amortization as well as 
valuation adjustments on MSRs and 
mark-to-market adjustments on 
both settled and outstanding free-standing derivative financial 

instruments used to economically hedge the MSR portfolio. Net 

mortgage servicing revenue increased $20 million for the year ended 

December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 
driven primarily by an increase of $64 million in net valuation 
adjustments, partially offset by a decrease in gross mortgage 

servicing fees of $24 million and an increase in mortgage servicing 

rights amortization of $20 million. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  39  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following table presents the components of net valuation ad
justments on the MSR portfolio an
d the impact of the non-qualify
ing hedgin
g strategy for the years ended December 31:
         TABLE 13: COMPONENTS OF NET VALUATION ADJUSTMENTS ON MSRs
             ($ in millions)
  2015 
 2014 
 2013  
Changes in fair value an
d settlement of free-standi
ng derivatives purchased 
     to economically hedge the MSR portfolio 
$90 
95 
(30)
Recovery of (provision for) MSR impairment 
 4 (65)
192 
Net valuation adjustments on MSRs and free-standing derivatives  
                entered into to economically hedge MSRs 
$94 
  30 
 162 
   Mortgage rates increased during the year ended December 31, 2015 
which caused the modeled prepayment speeds to slow, and led to 

the recovery of temporary impairment on servicing rights during the 

year. Mortgage rates decreased during the year ended December 31, 

2014 which caused the modeled pr
epayments speeds to increase, 
which led to temporary impairment 
on servicing rights during the 
year ended December 31, 2014. 
Servicing rights are deemed impaired when a borrower™s loan 
rate is distinctly higher than prevailing rates. Impairment on 

servicing rights is reversed when 
the prevailing rates return to a level 
commensurate with the borrower™s loan rate. Further detail on the 

valuation of MSRs can be found in Note 12 of the Notes to 

Consolidated Financial Statements. The Bancorp maintains a non-

qualifying hedging strategy to manage a portion of the risk 

associated with changes in the valuation on the MSR portfolio. 
Refer to Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for more information on the free-standing derivatives used to 

economically hedge the MSR portfolio. 
In addition to the derivative positions used to economically 
hedge the MSR portfolio, the Bancorp may acquire various 
securities as a component of its non-qualifying hedging strategy. 
The Bancorp did not sell securities related to the non-qualifying 

hedging strategy during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 

2014.  Net gains on the sale of these securities were $13 million 

during the year ended December 31, 2013, recorded in securities 

gains, net - non-qualifying hedges 
on mortgage servicing rights in 
the Consolidated Statements of Income.  
The Bancorp™s total residential mortgage loans serviced as of 
December 31, 2015 and 2014 were $
73.4 billion and $79.0 billion, respectively, with $59.0 billion an
d $65.4 billion, respectively, of 
residential mortgage loans serviced for others. 
 Card and processing revenue 
Card and processing revenue incr
eased $7 million for the year ended 
December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 
2014. The increase was primarily the result of an increase in the 
number of actively used cards and an increase in customer spend 

volume. Debit card interchange revenue, included in card and 

processing revenue, was $137 m
illion and $128 million for the years 
ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.  
 Other noninterest income
                 The following table presents the major components of other noninterest income:
          TABLE 14: COMPONENTS OF OTHER NONINTEREST INCOME
                For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
 2015 
     2014  
   2013  
  Gain on sale of Vantiv, Inc. shares  
$331 
125 
327 
Valuation ad
justments on the warrant associated with Vantiv Holding, LLC  
 236 
31 
206 
Gain on sale and exercise of the warrant
 associated with Vantiv Holding, LLC 
89 
 - 
 - 
Operating lease income 
89 
84 
75 
Income from the TRA associated with Vantiv, Inc. 
80 
23 
9 Equity method income from interest in Vantiv Holding, LLC 
 63 
48 
77 
BOLI income 
 48 
44 
52 
Cardholder fees 
 43 
45 
47 
Gain on loan sales 
 38 
 - 
3 Private equity investment income 
 28 
27 
24 
Consumer loan and lease fees 
 23 
25 
27 
Banking center income 
 21 30 
34 
Insurance income  14 13 
25 
Net losses on disposition and impairment of bank premises and equipment 
 (101)(19)
(6)
Loss on swap associated with the sa
le of Visa, Inc. Class B shares 
 (37)(38)
(31)
Other, net 
 14 12 
10 
Total other noninterest income 
$979 
450 
879 
          Other noninterest income increased $529 million for the year ended 
December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 

2014. The increase included the impact of a gain of $331 million on 

the sale of Vantiv, Inc. shares in the fourth quarter of 2015 

compared to a gain of $125 milli
on in 2014. The positive valuation 
adjustments on the stock warrant a
ssociated with Vantiv Holding, 
LLC were $236 million and $31 million for the years ended 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The fair value of the 
stock warrant is calculated usin
g the Black-Scholes option-pricing 
model, which utilizes several key i
nputs (Vantiv, Inc. stock price, 
strike price of the warrant and 
several unobservable inputs). The 
positive valuation adjustments 
for the years ended December 31, 
2015 and 2014 were primarily due to increases of 40% and 4%, 

respectively, in Vantiv, Inc.™s share price from December 31, 2014 

to December 31, 2015 and from December 31, 2013 to December 

31, 2014, respectively. During the fourth quarter of 2015, the 

Bancorp recognized a gain of $89 million on both the sale and 
exercise of a portion of the warrant
 associated with Vantiv Holding, 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  40  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 LLC. Additionally, the Bancorp recognized a gain of $49 million 
from the payment from Vantiv, Inc. to terminate a portion of the 

TRA and also recognized a gain of $31 million associated with the 

annual TRA payment during the fourth quarter of 2015. The 
Bancorp recognized a gain of $23 million associated with the TRA 
during the fourth quarter of 2014.  
In addition to the increases disc
ussed above, gain on loan sales 
increased $38 million during the year ended December 31, 2015 

compared to the same period in the prior year primarily due to a $37 

million gain on the sale of certain residential mortgage loans 

classified as TDRs during the first quarter of 2015. Equity method 
earnings from the Bancorp™s interest in Vantiv Holding, LLC 
increased $15 million from the year ended December 31, 2014 as 

2014 included charges taken by Vantiv Holding, LLC related to an 

acquisition during 2014.  
The year ended December 31, 2015 also included impairment 
charges, included in net losses on disposition and impairment of 

bank premises and equipment in other noninterest income of $109 

million compared to $20 million fo
r the same period in the prior 
year. For more information on these impairment charges, refer to 

Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 Noninterest Expense
                     Noninterest expense increased $66 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014, pr
imarily due 
to increases in personnel costs (salaries, wages and incentives 
plus employee benefits), technology and communications and card
 and processin
g expense partially offset by a decrease in 
other noninterest expense. The following ta
ble presents the major components of nonin
terest expense:
           TABLE 15: COMPONENTS OF NONINTEREST EXPENSE
                     For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
  2015 
  2014 
   2013  
  2012  
 2011  
 Salaries, wages and incentives 
$1,5251,449 
1,581 
1,607 
1,478 
Employee benefits  323
334 
357 
371 
330 
Net occupancy expense 
 321313 
307 
302 
305 
Technology and communications 
 224
212 
204 
196 
188 
Card and processing expense 
 153141 
134 
121 
120 
Equipment expense 
 124121 
114 
110 
113 
Other noninterest expense 
 1,1051,139 
1,264 
1,374 
1,224 
Total noninterest expense 
$3,775
3,709 
3,961 
4,081 
3,758 
Efficiency ratio 
 57.6
% 61.1 
58.2 
61.7 
62.3 
          Personnel costs increased $65 million for the year ended December 
31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 driven by 

higher executive retirement and severance costs as well as an 

increase in base compensation and an increase in incentive 
compensation, primarily in th
e mortgage business. Full-time 
equivalent employees totaled 18,261 at December 31, 2015 

compared to 18,351 at December 31, 2014. Technology and communications expense increased $12 
million for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year 
ended December 31, 2014 driven primarily by increased investment 
in information technology associated with regulatory and 

compliance initiatives, system maintenance and other growth 

initiatives. 
Card and processing expense increased $12 million for the year 
ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 

31, 2014 driven primarily by increased fraud prevention related 

expenses. 
 The following table presents the major components of other noninterest expense:
               TABLE 16: COMPONENTS OF OTHER NONINTEREST EXPENSE
              For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
  2015 
   2014 
   2013  
  Impairment on affordable housing investments  
$145   135 
  108 
  Loan and lease 
 118   119 
  158 
  Marketing 
 110   98 
  114 
  FDIC insurance and other taxes 
 99 
  89 
  127 
  Operating lease 
 74 
  67 
  57 
  Professional service fees 
 70 
  72 
  76 
  Losses and adjustments 
 55 
  188 
  221 
  Travel 
 54 
  52 
  54 
  Postal and courier 
 45 
  47 
  48 
  Data processing 
 45 
  41 
  42 
  Recruitment and education 
 33 
  28 
  26 
  Donations 
 29 
  18 
  24 
  Insurance  17   16 
  17 
  Supplies 
 16   15 
  16 
  Provision for (benefit from) the 
reserve for unfunded commitments 
 4   (27)
  (17)
  Other, net 
 191   181 
  193 
  Total other noninterest expense 
$ 1,105 
   1,139 
   1,264 
                   MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  41  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Other noninterest expense decreased $34 million for the year ended 
December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 

primarily due to a decrease in losses and adjustments partially offset 

by increases in the provision for the reserve for unfunded 

commitments, marketing expense, 
donations expense, impairment 
on affordable housing investments, 
FDIC insurance and other taxes 
and operating lease expense.  
Losses and adjustments decreased $133 million for the year 
ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 

31, 2014 primarily due to a decrease in legal settlements and reserve 

expense. The provision for the reserve for unfunded commitments 

increased $31 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 

compared to the year ended December
 31, 2014 primarily due to an 
increase in unfunded commitments for which the Bancorp holds 
reserves. Marketing expense increased $12 million for the year 
ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 

31, 2014. Donations expense increased $11 million for the year 

ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 

31, 2014 driven by contributions of $14 million to the Fifth Third 
Foundation. Impairment on affo
rdable housing investments 
increased $10 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 

compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 primarily due to 

incremental losses resulting from pr
evious growth in the portfolio. 
FDIC insurance and other taxes increased $10 million for the year 

ended December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 
31, 2014 primarily driven by an incr
ease in the assessment rate due 
to a change in asset mix as well 
as an increase in the assessment 
base. Operating lease expense increased $7 for the year ended 

December 31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014 

due primarily to an increase in depreciation on operating lease 

equipment. 
The Bancorp continues to focus on efficiency initiatives as part 
of its core emphasis on operating leverage and expense control. The 
efficiency ratio (noninterest expe
nse divided by the sum of net 
interest income (FTE) and noninter
est income) was 57.6% for the 
year ended December 31, 2015 compared to 61.1% for the year 

ended December 31, 2014. 
Applicable Income Taxes 
Applicable income tax expense for all periods includes the benefit 

from tax-exempt income, tax-advantaged investments, and certain 
gains on sales of leveraged leases that are exempt from federal 
taxation and tax credits, partially offset by the effect of certain 

nondeductible expenses. The tax credits are associated with the 

Low-Income Housing Tax Credit program established under 
Section 42 of the IRC, the New Markets Tax Credit program 

established under Section 45D of
 the IRC, the Rehabilitation 
Investment Tax Credit program established under Section 47 of the 

IRC and the Qualified Zone Academy Bond program established 
under Section 1397E of the IRC.  
The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2015 
and 2014 were primarily impacted by $178 million and $164 million, 

respectively, in tax credits and $39 million and $27 million of tax 

benefits from tax-exempt income in 2015 and 2014, respectively. 

The increase in the effective tax rate for the year ended December 

31, 2015 from the year ended December 31, 2014 was primarily 

related to an increase in income before income taxes partially offset 
by the increased amount of tax credits.  
As required under U.S. GAAP, the Bancorp established a 
deferred tax asset for stock-based awards granted to its employees 
and directors. When the actual ta
x deduction for these stock-based 
awards is less than the expense pr
eviously recognized for financial 
reporting or when the awards expire unexercised and where the 
Bancorp has not accumulated an excess tax benefit for previously 
exercised or released stock-based awards, the Bancorp is required to 

recognize a non-cash charge to income tax expense upon the write-

off of the deferred tax asset prev
iously established for these stock-
based awards. As the Bancorp had an accumulated excess tax 

benefit at December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Bancorp was not 

required to recognize a non-cash charge to income tax expense 

during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014.  
Based on the Bancorp™s stock price at December 31, 2015 and 
the Bancorp™s accumulation of an
 excess tax benefit through the 
period ended December 31, 2015, the Bancorp does not believe it 

will be required to recognize 
a non-cash charge to income tax 
expense over the next twelve months related to stock-based awards. 

However, the Bancorp cannot predict its stock price or whether its 

employees will exercise other st
ock-based awards with lower 
exercise prices in the future. Ther
efore, it is possible the Bancorp 
may be required to recognize a non-cash charge to income tax 
expense in the future. 
      The following table presents the Bancorp™s income before income ta
xes, applicable income tax expense and effective tax rate:   
         TABLE 17: APPLICABLE INCOME TAXES
                                 For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
   2015 
 2014 
 2013  
2012  
2011  
Income before income taxes  
$2,365 
  2,028 
   2,598 
    2,210 
   1,831 
  Applicable income tax expense  
  659 
  545 
   772 
    636 
   533 
  Effective tax rate 
   27.8 
%  26.9 
   29.7 
     28.8 
   29.1 
          MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  42  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 BUSINESS SEGMENT REVIEW 
The Bancorp reports on four business segments: Commercial 
Banking, Branch Banking, C
onsumer Lending and Investment 
Advisors. Additional financial information on each business 

segment is included in Note 30 of the Notes to Consolidated 

Financial Statements. Results of 
the Bancorp™s business segments are presented based on its management structure and management 

accounting practices. The structure and accounting practices are 

specific to the Bancorp; therefor
e, the financial results of the 
Bancorp™s business segments are not necessarily comparable with 
similar information for other financial institutions. The Bancorp 
refines its methodologies from time to time as management™s 

accounting practices or businesses change.  
The Bancorp manages interest rate risk centrally at the 
corporate level and employs an FTP methodology at the business 

segment level. This methodology insulates the business segments 

from interest rate volatility, 
enabling them to focus on serving 
customers through loan and deposit products. The FTP system 
assigns charge rates and credit rates to classes of assets and 
liabilities, respectively, based on expected duration and the U.S. 

swap curve. Matching duration allo
cates interest income and interest 
expense to each segment so its resulting net interest income is 

insulated from interest rate risk. 
In a rising rate environment, the 
Bancorp benefits from the widening spread between deposit costs 

and wholesale funding costs. However, the Bancorp™s FTP system 

credits this benefit to deposit-providing businesses, such as Branch 
Banking and Investment Advisors, on a duration-adjusted basis. The 
net impact of the FTP methodology is captured in General 

Corporate and Other.   
The Bancorp adjusts the FTP charge and credit rates as 
dictated by changes in interest rates for various interest-earning 
assets and interest-bearing liabilities and by review of the estimated 

durations for the indeterminate-liv
ed deposits. The credit rate 
provided for demand deposit accoun
ts is reviewed annually based 
upon the account type, its estimated duration and the corresponding 

federal funds, U.S. swap curve or
 swap rate. The credit rates for 
several deposit products were re
set January 1, 2015 to reflect the 
current market rates and updated 
duration assumptions. These rates 
were generally lower than those 
in place during 2014, thus net 
interest income for deposit-providing businesses was negatively 

impacted during 2015.  
The business segments are charged provision expense based on 
the actual net charge-offs experi
enced on the loans and leases 
owned by each business segment. Provision expense attributable to 

loan and lease growth and changes 
in ALLL factors are captured in 
General Corporate and Other. The fi
nancial results of the business 
segments include allocations for sh
ared services and headquarters 
expenses. Additionally, the business segments form synergies by 
taking advantage of cross-sell 
opportunities and when funding 
operations by accessing the capit
al markets as a collective unit.  The results of operations and 
financial position for the years 
ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 were adjusted to reflect the 

transfer of certain customers and Bancorp employees from 

Commercial Banking to Branch Bankin
g, effective January 1, 2015. 
In addition, the balances for 
the years ended December 31, 2014 
and 2013 were adjusted to reflect 
a change in internal allocation 
methodology. 
 The following table summarizes net in
come (loss) by business segment:
                TABLE 18: NET INCOME (LOSS) BY BUSINESS SEGMENT
               For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
  2015 
 2014 
 2013  
Income Statement Data
             Commercial Banking
 $  739 
 800 
 798 
Branch Banking
    311 
 365 
 219 
Consumer Lending
    112 
 (66)
 187 
Investment Advisors
    58 
 54 
 68 
General Corporate & Other
    486 
 330 
 554 
Net income
    1,706 
 1,483 
 1,826 
Less: Net income attributab
le to noncontrolling interests 
   (6)
 2 
 (10)
Net income attributable to Bancorp
    1,712 
 1,481 
 1,836 
Dividends on preferred stock 
   75 
 67 
 37 
Net income available to common shareholders
 $  1,637 
 1,414 
 1,799 
    MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  43  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Commercial Banking
 Commercial Banking offers credit 
intermediation, cash management 
and financial services to large and middle-market businesses and 

government and professional customers. In addition to the 

traditional lending and depository offerings, Commercial Banking 
products and services include global cash management, foreign 
exchange and international trade 
finance, derivatives and capital 
markets services, asset-based lending, real estate finance, public 
finance, commercial leasing and syndicated finance.  
               The following table contains selected financial data for the Commercial Banking segment:
                  TABLE 19: COMMERCIAL BANKING
                For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
    2015 
 2014 
 2013  
 Income Statement Data
                Net interest income (FTE)
(a) $  1,646 
 1,648 
 1,589 
Provision for loan and lease losses
     239 
 235 
 195 
Noninterest income:        Corporate banking revenue
     378 
 429 
 391 
    Service charges on deposits
     284 
 280 
 262 
    Other noninterest income
     191 
 171 
 158 
Noninterest expense:        Personnel costs
     303 
 304 
 306 
    Other noninterest expense
     1,099 
 1,013 
 924 
Income before income taxes     858 
 976 
 975 
Applicable income tax expense
(a)(b)
    119 
 176 
 177 
Net income
  $  739 
 800 
 798 
Average Balance Sheet Data
    Commercial loans and leases, including held for sale
  $  53,010 
 50,718 
 47,197 
Demand deposits
     20,677 
 18,381 
 16,582 
Interest checking deposits
     9,069 
 7,995 
 7,031 
Savings and money market deposits
     6,652 
 5,792 
 4,844 
Other time deposits and certificates $100,000 and over
     1,230 
 1,399 
 1,330 
Foreign office deposits
     813 
 1,817 
 1,483 
(a) Includes FTE adjustments of $21 for both the years ended 
December 31, 2015
 and 2014 and $20 for the year ended December 31,
 2013. 
(b) Applicable income tax expense for all periods includes the tax bene
fit from tax-exempt income and business tax credits, partial
ly offset by the effect of certain 
nondeductible expenses. Refer to the 
Applicable Income Taxes section of MD&A for additional information. 
Comparison of the year ended 2015 with 2014 
Net income was $739 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 

compared to net income of $800 million for the year ended 

December 31, 2014. The decrease in net income was the result of an 
increase in noninterest expense coupled with a decrease in 
noninterest income.  
Net interest income decreased $2 million from the year ended 
December 31, 2014 primarily driven by a decline in yields of 19 bps 

on average commercial loans and leases and increases in FTP 

charges on loans and leases driven by an increase in average 

balances. These decreases for the year ended December 31, 2015 

were partially offset by increases in FTP credits on core deposits 
driven by increases in average balances. 
Provision for loan and lease losses increased $4 million from 
the year ended December 31, 2014. The increase included a $102 

million charge-off during the third quarter of 2015 associated with 

the restructuring of a student loan backed commercial credit 

originated in 2007. The year ended December 31, 2014 included net 

charge-offs related to certain im
paired commercial and industrial 
loans in the first and third quarte
rs of 2014. Net charge-offs as a 
percent of average portfolio loans and leases decreased to 45 bps for 
the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to 46 bps for the year 

ended December 31, 2014.  
Noninterest income decreased $27 million from the year ended 
December 31, 2014 due primarily to a decrease in corporate banking 

revenue partially offset by an incr
ease in other noninterest income. 
Corporate banking revenue decreased $51 million from the year 

ended December 31, 2014 primarily driven by decreases in 
syndication fees and lease remarketing fees. The decrease in 
syndication fees was the result of decreased activity in the market 

and the Bancorp™s reduced leveraged loan appetite. The decrease in 
lease remarketing fees included the impact of impairment charges of 
$36 million related to certain op
erating lease equipment that was 
recognized during the year ended December 31, 2015. Refer to 

Note 8 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for 
additional information. The decrea
se in corporate banking revenue 
for the year ended December 31, 2015 was partially offset by higher 

institutional sales revenue. Other noninterest income increased $20 

million from the year ended December 31, 2014 primarily driven by 

increases in gains on loan sales.  Noninterest expense increased $85 million from the year ended 
December 31, 2014 driven by an increase in other noninterest 

expense. The increase in other noninterest expense was primarily 
driven by increases in corporate overhead allocations, operating 
lease expense and impairment on affordable housing investments. Average commercial loans increased $2.3 billion from the year 
ended December 31, 2014 primarily due to increases in average 

commercial and industrial loans and average commercial 

construction loans partially offset by a decrease in average 

commercial mortgage loans. Aver
age commercial and industrial 
loans and average commercial construction loans increased $1.4 
billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, from the year ended December 
31, 2014 primarily as a result of an 
increase in new loan origination 
activity resulting from an increase in demand and targeted marketing 

efforts. Average commercial mortga
ge loans decreased $552 million 
from the year ended December 31, 
2014 primarily due to a decline 
in new loan origination activity dr
iven by increased competition and 
an increase in paydowns. 
Average core deposits increased $3.2 billion from the year 
ended December 31, 2014. The increase was the result of growth in 
average demand deposits, average interest checking deposits and 

average savings and money market deposits which increased $2.3 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  44  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 billion, $1.1 billion and $860 million, respectively, from the year 
ended December 31, 2014. This increa
se was partially offset by a 
decrease in average foreign deposits of $1.0 billion from the year 

ended December 31, 2014. 
 Comparison of the year ended 2014 with 2013 

Net income was $800 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 

compared to net income of $798 million for the year ended 

December 31, 2013. The increase in net income was the result of 

increases in net interest income and noninterest income partially 

offset by increases in noninterest expense and the provision for loan 

and lease losses. Net interest income increased $59 million from the year ended 
December 31, 2013 primarily due to
 growth in average commercial 
construction loans, an increase in 
FTP credits due to an increase in 
demand deposits and a decrease in FTP charges, partially offset by a 

decline in yields of 29 bps, on average commercial loans. 
Provision for loan and lease losses increased $40 million from 
the year ended December 31, 2013 due to an increase in net charge-

offs related to certain impaired
 commercial and industrial loans in 
the first and third quarters of 2014. 
Net charge-offs as a percent of 
average portfolio loans and leases
 increased to 46 bps for the year 
ended December 31, 2014 compared to 41 bps for the year ended 

December 31, 2013.  
Noninterest income increased $69 million from the year ended 
December 31, 2013 due to increases in corporate banking revenue, 

service charges on deposits and other noninterest income. 

Corporate banking revenue increased $38 million from the year 
ended December 31, 2013 primarily 
driven by increases in 
syndication fees and lease remarketing fees. Service charges on 

deposits increased $18 million from the year ended December 31, 
2013 primarily driven by higher commercial deposit revenue which 
increased due to the acquisition of new customers and product 

expansion. Other noninterest income increased $13 million from 

the year ended December 31, 2013 primarily due to increases in 
operating lease income and card and processing revenue. 
Noninterest expense increased $87 million from the year ended 
December 31, 2013 primarily as a result of an increase in other 

noninterest expense. Other noninterest expense increased $89 

million from the year ended December 31, 2013 driven by increases 

in corporate overhead allocations, impairment on affordable 

housing investments and operating lease expense. 
Average commercial loans increased $3.5 billion from the year 
ended December 31, 2013 primarily due to increases in average 
commercial and industrial loans and average commercial 

construction loans partially offset by a decrease in average 

commercial mortgage loans. Aver
age commercial and industrial 
loans and average commercial construction loans increased $3.5 

billion and $684 million, respectively, from the year ended 

December 31, 2013 as a result of an in
crease in new loan origination 
activity and utilization resulting from a strengthening economy and 
targeted marketing efforts. Average commercial mortgage loans 
decreased $671 million from the year ended December 31, 2013 due 

to continued run-off as the level of new originations was less than 

the repayments on the current portfolio. 
Average core deposits increased $4.0 billion from the year 
ended December 31, 2013. The increase was the result of growth in 

average demand deposits, average interest checking deposits, 

average savings and money market deposits and average foreign 
deposits which increased $1.8 billion, $964 million, $948 million and 
$334 million, respectively, from the year ended December 31, 2013. 
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  45  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Branch Banking
  Branch Banking provides a full rang
e of deposit and loan products 
to individuals and small businesses through 1,254 full-service 

banking centers. Branch Bankin
g offers depository and loan 
products, such as checking and savings accounts, home equity loans 
and lines of credit, credit cards 
and loans for automobiles and other personal financing needs, as well as
 products designed to meet the 
specific needs of small businesses, including cash management 

services.          The following table contains selected financial data for the Branch Banking segment: 
                TABLE 20: BRANCH BANKING
               For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
  2015 
 2014 
 2013  
 Income Statement Data 
            Net interest income 
 $  1,555 
 1,573 
 1,380 
Provision for loan and lease losses
    159 
 181 
 211 
Noninterest income:       Service charges on deposits
    277 
 278 
 284 
    Card and processing revenue
    236 
 227 
 208 
    Investment advisory revenue
    157 
 152 
 147 
    Other noninterest income
    (18)
 69 
 106 
Noninterest expense:       Personnel costs
    524 
 539 
 550 
    Net occupancy and equipment expense
    248 
 246 
 241 
    Card and processing expense
    145 
 133 
 125 
    Other noninterest expense
    650 
 636 
 660 
Income before income taxes    481 
 564 
 338 
Applicable income tax expense 
   170 
 199 
 119 
Net income
 $  311 
 365 
 219 
Average Balance Sheet Data 
  Consumer loans, including held for sale
 $  14,374 
 14,978 
 15,223 
Commercial loans, including held for sale
    2,021 
 2,175 
 2,370 
Demand deposits
    12,715 
 11,781 
 11,284 
Interest checking deposits
    9,128 
 9,071 
 8,905 
Savings and money market deposits
    25,342 
 24,065 
 22,252 
Other time deposits and certificates $100,000 and over
    5,161 
 4,690 
 4,709 
    Comparison of the year ended 2015 with 2014 
Net income was $311 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 

compared to net income of $365 million for the year ended 

December 31, 2014. The decrease was driven by decreases in 

noninterest income and net interest in
come as well as an increase in 
noninterest expense partially offset by a decrease in the provision 

for loan and lease losses.  Net interest income decreased $18 million from the year ended 
December 31, 2014 primarily driven by changes made to the 
Bancorp™s deposit advance product beginning January 1, 2015 and a 

decline in interest income on home equity loans and residential 

mortgage loans driven by decreases in average balances partially 

offset by a decrease in FTP charges due to the decrease in these 

average balances. The decline in net interest income was partially 

offset by a decrease in interest expense on core deposits due to a 

decline in the rates paid and by increases in the benefits from FTP 
credits for demand deposits, other time deposits and interest 
checking deposits.
 Provision for loan and lease losses decreased $22 million from 
the year ended December 31, 2014 primarily due to improved credit 

trends. Net charge-offs as a percen
t of average portfolio loans and 
leases decreased to 96 bps for the year ended December 31, 2015 

compared to 106 bps for the year ended December 31, 2014. 
Noninterest income decreased $74 million from the year ended 
December 31, 2014. The decrease was primarily driven by decreases 
in other noninterest income partially offset by increases in card and 

processing revenue and investment advisory revenue. Other 

noninterest income decreased $87 million from the year ended 

December 31, 2014 primarily driven by impairment losses 

associated with lower of cost or market adjustments on long-lived 
assets of $109 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 
compared to $20 million for the year ended December 31, 2014. 

Refer to Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

for additional information on impairment of bank premises and 

equipment. Card and processing revenue increased $9 million from 

the year ended December 31, 2014 primarily due to an increase in 

the number of actively used cards and an increase in customer 

spend volume. Investment advisory revenue increased $5 million 
from the year ended December 31, 2014 primarily due to an 
increase of $3 million in recurring 
securities brokerage fees driven 
by higher sales volume and an increase of $2 million in private client 

service fees due to an increase in personal asset management fees.
 Noninterest expense increased $13 million from the year ended 
December 31, 2014 primarily driven by increases in other 

noninterest expense and card and processing expense partially offset 

by a decrease in personnel costs. Other noninterest expense 
increased $14 million from the year ended December 31, 2014 due 
to higher operational losses and an increase in corporate overhead 

allocations. Card and processing expense increased $12 million from 

the year ended December 31, 2014 driven by increased fraud 

prevention related expenses. Personnel costs decreased $15 million 

from the year ended December 31, 2014 driven by a decrease in 

employee benefits expense due to changes in the Bancorp™s 

employee benefit plan implemented in
 2015 as well as a decrease in 
base compensation due to a declin
e in the number of full-time 
equivalent employees. Average consumer loans decreased $604 million from the year 
ended December 31, 2014 primarily due to a decrease in average 

home equity loans and average residential mortgage loans of $336 

million and $261 million, respectively, as payoffs exceeded new loan 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  46  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 production. Average commercial loans decreased $154 million from 
the year ended December 31, 2014 primarily due to a decrease in 

average commercial mortgage lo
ans and average commercial and industrial loans of $97 million and 
$63 million, respectively, as 
payoffs exceeded new loan production.
  Average core deposits increased $2.6 billion from the year 
ended December 31, 2014 primarily driven by net growth in average 

savings and money market deposits
 of $1.3 billion and growth in 
average demand deposits of $934 million.
 The net growth in average 
savings and money market deposits was driven by a promotional 

product offering and the growth in average demand deposits was 

driven by an increase in average account balances.
  Comparison of the year ended 2014 with 2013 

Net income was $365 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 

compared to net income of $219 million for the year ended 

December 31, 2013. The increase was 
driven by an increase in net 
interest income and decreases in the provision for loan and lease 

losses and noninterest expense partially offset by a decrease in 

noninterest income.
  Net interest income increased $193 million from the year 
ended December 31, 2013 primarily driven by increases in the FTP 

credit rates for savings and money market deposits, demand 

deposits and interest checking deposits and a decrease in the FTP 

charges on loans and leases. These increases were partially offset by 

declines in yields on average commercial loans and a decrease in 

interest income relating to the Bancorp™s decision to no longer 

enroll new customers in the deposit advance product. 
Provision for loan and lease losses for December 31, 2014 
decreased $30 million from the year ended December 31, 2013 as a 

result of improved credit trends. Net charge-offs as a percent of 

average portfolio loans and leases decreased to 106 bps for the year 

ended December 31, 2014 compared to 119 bps for the year ended 

December 31, 2013. 
Noninterest income decreased $19 million from the year ended 
December 31, 2013. The decrease was primarily driven by decreases 
in other noninterest income and service charges on deposits partially 
offset by an increase in card and processing revenue. Other 

noninterest income decreased $37 million from the year ended 
December 31, 2013 primarily due to
 $20 million in impairment 
charges during the year ended December 31, 2014 for branches and 

land. The remaining decrease in other noninterest income was 

primarily due to decreases in gains on loan sales and mortgage 
origination fees and retail service fees. Service charges on deposits 
decreased $6 million from the year ended December 31, 2013 

primarily due to a decrease in consumer checking and savings fees 

from a decline in the percentage of consumer customers being 

charged service fees. Card and processing revenue increased $19 

million from the year ended December 31, 2013 primarily as a result 

of an increase in the number of ac
tively used cards as well as higher 
processing fees related to additional ATM locations.
  Noninterest expense decreased $22 million from the year 
ended December 31, 2013 primarily driven by decreases in other 

noninterest expense and personnel costs partially offset by increases 

in card and processing expense 
and net occupancy and equipment 
expense. Other noninterest expense decreased $24 million from the 

year ended December 31, 2013 primarily due to lower marketing 

expense and loan and lease expense. Personnel costs decreased $11 

million from the year ended December 31, 2013 primarily driven by 
lower compensation costs due to a decline in the number of full-
time equivalent employees. Card and processing expense increased 

$8 million from the year ended December 31, 2013 primarily due to 

higher rewards expense relating to credit cards and increased fraud-

related charges. Net occupancy and equipment expense increased $5 

million from the year ended December 31, 2013 primarily due to an 

increase in rent expense driven by additional ATM locations. 
Average consumer loans decreased $245 million from the year 
ended December 31, 2013 primarily due to a decrease in average 
home equity loans of $382 million as payoffs exceeded new 

advances and new loan producti
on. This decrease was partially 
offset by an increase in average credit card loans of $146 million 

from the year ended December 31, 2013 primarily due to an 

increase in open and active accounts driven by the volume of new 

accounts.  Average core deposits increased $2.5 billion from the year 
ended December 31, 2013 primarily driven by net growth in average 
savings and money market deposits
 of $1.8 billion and growth in 
average demand deposits of $497 million. 
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  47  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Consumer Lending 
Consumer Lending includes the 
Bancorp™s residential mortgage, home equity, automobile and other in
direct lending activities. Direct 
lending activities include the origination, retention and servicing of 

residential mortgage and home equity loans or lines of credit, sales 
and securitizations of those loans, 
pools of loans or lines of credit 
and all associated hedging activities. Indirect lending activities 

include loans to consumers through correspondent lenders and 

automobile dealers.  
        The following table contains selected financial data for the Consumer Lending segment: 
                TABLE 21: CONSUMER LENDING
               For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
  2015 
 2014 
 2013  
Income Statement Data
             Net interest income  
$  249 
 258 
 312 
Provision for loan and lease losses 
   45 
 156 
 93 
Noninterest income:       Mortgage banking net revenue 
   341 
 305 
 688 
    Other noninterest income 
   66 
 45 
 67 
Noninterest expense:       Personnel costs 
   185 
 181 
 281 
    Other noninterest expense 
   251 
 373 
 404 
Income (loss) before income taxes    175 
 (102)
 289 
Applicable income tax expense (benefit) 
   63 
 (36)
 102 
Net income (loss) 
$  112 
 (66)
 187 
Average Balance Sheet Data
   Residential mortgage loans, including held for sale 
$  9,251 
 8,866 
 10,222 
Home equity 
   424 
 496 
 572 
Automobile loans, including held for sale 
   11,341 
 11,517 
 11,409 
Other consumer loans and leases, including held for sale 
   11 
 19 
 16 
    Comparison of the year ended 2015 with 2014
 Net income was $112 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 
compared to a net loss of $66 million for the year ended December 

31, 2014. The increase was driven by
 decreases in noninterest 
expense and the provision for loan and lease losses as well as an 
increase in noninterest income partially offset by a decrease in net 

interest income. Net interest income decreased $9 million from the year ended 
December 31, 2014 primarily driven by lower yields on average 

residential mortgage loans and av
erage automobile loans and a 
decline in average home equity loans partially offset by decreases in 

FTP charge rates on loans and leases.
 The provision for loan and lease losses decreased $111 million 
from the year ended December 31, 2014 as the prior year included 

an $87 million charge-off related to th
e transfer of certain residential 
mortgage loans from the portfolio 
to held for sale in the fourth 
quarter of 2014. The decrease was also due to improved delinquency 

metrics on residential mortgage loans and home equity loans. Net 

charge-offs as a percent of aver
age portfolio loans and leases 
decreased to 22 bps for the year ended December 31, 2015 
compared to 77 bps for the year ended December 31, 2014.
  Noninterest income increased $57 million from the year ended 
December 31, 2014 as a result of increases in mortgage banking net 

revenue and other noninterest income. Mortgage banking net 

revenue increased $36 million from the year ended December 31, 

2014 driven by a $16 million increase in mortgage origination fees 

and gains on loan sales and a $20 million increase in net mortgage 

servicing revenue. Refer to the Noninterest Income section of 
MD&A for additional information on
 the fluctuations in mortgage 
banking net revenue. Other noninterest income increased $21 

million from the year ended December 31, 2014 primarily driven by 

a $37 million gain on the sale of held for sale residential mortgage 

loans classified as TDRs in the fi
rst quarter of 2015. This increase 
was partially offset by a decrease in retail service fees.
 Noninterest expense decreased $118 million from the year 
ended December 31, 2014 driven by a decrease in other noninterest 
expense of $122 million. The decrease in other noninterest expense 
was primarily due to decreased legal expenses and operational losses 

partially offset by an increase in corporate overhead allocations.
 Average consumer loans and leases increased $129 million 
from the year ended December 31, 2014. Average residential 
mortgage loans increased $385 million from the year ended 

December 31, 2014 primarily due to the continued retention of 

certain conforming ARMs and certain other fixed-rate loans. 

Average automobile loans and average home equity loans decreased 

$176 million and $72 million, respectively, from the year ended 

December 31, 2014 as payoffs exceeded new loan production.
    Comparison of the year ended 2014 with 2013
 Consumer Lending incurred a net loss of $66 million for the year 
ended December 31, 2014 compared to net income of $187 million 

from the year ended December 31, 2013. The decrease was driven 

by decreases in net interest income and noninterest income and an 

increase in the provision for loan 
and lease losses partially offset by 
a decrease in noninterest expense.
 Net interest income decreased $54 million from the year ended 
December 31, 2013 primarily due to decreases in average residential 
mortgage loans and average home 
equity loans as well as lower 
yields on average automobile loans 
partially offset by a decrease in 
FTP charges on loans and leases. 
The provision for loan and lease losses increased $63 million 
from the year ended December 31, 2013 primarily due to an $87 

million charge-off related to the transfer of certain residential 

mortgage loans from the portfolio 
to held for sale in the fourth 
quarter of 2014 partially offset by improved delinquency metrics on 
home equity loans. Net charge-offs 
as a percent of average portfolio 
loans and leases increased to 77 bps for the year ended December 

31, 2014 compared to 46 bps for the year ended December 31, 

2013.  Noninterest income decreased $405 million from the year 
ended December 31, 2013 as a result of decreases in mortgage 

banking net revenue of $383 million and other noninterest income 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  48  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 of $22 million. The decrease in mortgage banking net revenue was 
due to a $293 million decline in mort
gage origination fees and gains 
on loan sales due to a decline in 
mortgage originations and a $90 
million decrease in net mortgage servicing revenue. The decrease in 
other noninterest income was primarily due to a $16 million 
decrease in securities gains.
 Noninterest expense decreased $131 million due to decreases 
of $100 million in personnel costs and $31 million in other 

noninterest expense from the year ended December 31, 2013. The 

decrease in personnel costs was primarily the result of lower 

mortgage loan originations. The decrease in other noninterest 

expense was primarily due to decreases in loan and lease expense 
and corporate overhead allocations. 
Average consumer loans and leas
es decreased $1.3 billion from 
the year ended December 31, 2013. Average residential mortgage 
loans decreased $1.4 billion from the year ended December 31, 2013 
due primarily to a decline of $1.5 billion in average residential 

mortgage loans held for sale fr
om reduced origination volumes 
driven by a reduction in refinance activity and the exit of the broker 
origination channel during 2014. Th
is decrease was partially offset 
by the continued retention of certain shorter term residential 

mortgage loans originated through the Bancorp™s retail branches and 
the decision to retain certain conforming ARMs and certain other 

fixed-rate loans originated during the year ended December 31, 

2014. Average home equity loans decreased $76 million from the 

year ended December 31, 2013 as payoffs exceeded new loan 

production. Average automobile loans increased $108 million from 
the year ended December 31, 2013 due to new originations 
exceeding run-off. Investment Advisors 
Investment Advisors provides a full range of investment alternatives 

for individuals, companies and 
not-for-profit organizations. 
Investment Advisors is made up of four main businesses: FTS, an 

indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bancorp; ClearArc Capital, 
Inc., an indirect wholly-owned 
subsidiary of the Bancorp; Fifth 
Third Private Bank; and Fifth Third Institutional Services. FTS 
offers full-service retail brokerage services to individual clients and 
broker dealer services to the institutional marketplace. ClearArc 

Capital, Inc. provides asset management services. Fifth Third 

Private Bank offers holistic strategies to affluent clients in wealth 

planning, investing, insurance and wealth protection. Fifth Third 
Institutional Services provides advisory services for institutional 
clients including states and municipalities. 
        The following table contains selected financial data for the Investment Advisors segment: 
                TABLE 22: INVESTMENT ADVISORS
               For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
   2015 
 2014 
 2013  
Income Statement Data
             Net interest income  
$  128 
 121 
 154 
Provision for loan and lease losses 
   3 
 3 
 2 
Noninterest income:       Investment advisory revenue 
   406 
 397 
 384 
    Other noninterest income 
   12 
 13 
 22 
Noninterest expense:       Personnel costs 
   170 
 162 
 159 
    Other noninterest expense 
   285 
 283 
 294 
Income before income taxes    88 
 83 
 105 
Applicable income tax expense 
   30 
 29 
 37 
Net income 
$  58 
 54 
 68 
Average Balance Sheet Data
   Loans and leases, including held for sale 
$  2,805 
 2,270 
 2,014 
Core deposits 
   9,357 
 9,535 
 8,815 
    Comparison of the year ended 2015 with 2014 
Net income was $58 million for the year ended December 31, 2015 

compared to net income of $54 million for the year ended 

December 31, 2014. The increase in
 net income was primarily due 
to increases in net interest in
come and noninterest income partially 
offset by an increase in noninterest expense.  
Net interest income increased $7 million from the year ended 
December 31, 2014 primarily due to increases in interest income on 

loans and leases and FTP credits on demand deposits both due to 

increases in average balances as well as an increase in FTP credits on 

interest checking deposits due to an increase in FTP credit rates. 

These increases were partially offs
et by increases on FTP charges on 
loans and leases driven by increases in average balances. 
Noninterest income increased $8 million from the year ended 
December 31, 2014 primarily due to a $9 million increase in 

investment advisory revenue
 driven by increases in recurring 
securities brokerage fees and private client service fees.
 Noninterest expense increased $10 million from the year ended 
December 31, 2014 primarily due to increases in personnel costs 
due to higher incentive compensation and base compensation
.   Average loans and leases incr
eased $535 million from the year 
ended December 31, 2014 primarily driv
en by increases in average 
residential mortgage loans and average other consumer loans as a 

result of increases in new loan orig
ination activity partially offset by 
a decrease in average home equity loans as payoffs exceeded new 
loan production.  
Average core deposits decreased $178 million from the year 
ended December 31, 2014 primarily due to a decrease in average 

interest checking balances partially offset by increases in average 

savings and money market deposits and average demand deposits. 

 
Comparison of the year ended 2014 with 2013 

Net income was $54 million for the year ended December 31, 2014 
compared to net income of $68 million for the year ended 
December 31, 2013. The decrease in net income was primarily due 

to a decrease in net interest inco
me partially offset by a decrease in 
noninterest expense and an increase in noninterest income.  
Net interest income decreased $33 million from the year ended 
December 31, 2013 primarily due to a decrease in the FTP credit 

rate on certain interest checking deposits. 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  49  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Noninterest income increased $4 million from the year ended 
December 31, 2013 due to a $13 million increase in investment 

advisory revenue primarily driven by an increase of $12 million in 

private client services revenue due to growth in personal asset 

management fees partially offset by 
a decrease in securities broker 
fees due to a decline in transactional brokerage revenue. This 
increase was partially offset by a $9 million decrease in other 
noninterest income as other noninterest income in the prior year 

included gains on the sale of certain advisory contracts.
 Noninterest expense decreased $8 million from the year ended 
December 31, 2013 primarily due to a decrease in other noninterest 
expense driven by decreases in
 operational losses, marketing 
expense and corporate overhead allocations.
 Average loans and leases incr
eased $256 million from the year 
ended December 31, 2013 primarily driv
en by increases in average 
residential mortgage loans and av
erage commercial mortgage loans 
partially offset by a decrease in average home equity loans.
  Average core deposits increased $720 million from the year 
ended December 31, 2013 due to growth in average interest 

checking balances as customers have
 opted to maintain excess funds 
in liquid transaction accounts as a 
result of interest rates remaining 
near historic lows.
 General Corporate and Other 
General Corporate and Other includ
es the unallocated portion of 
the investment securities portfolio
, securities gains and losses, 
certain non-core deposit funding, unassigned equity, provision 
expense in excess of net charge-offs or a benefit from the reduction 

of the ALLL, representation and 
warranty expense in excess of 
actual losses or a benefit from th
e reduction of representation and 
warranty reserves, the payment of preferred stock dividends and 

certain support activities and other items not attributed to the 

business segments. 

 Comparison of the year ended 2015 with 2014 
Net interest income decreased $24 million from the year ended 

December 31, 2014 primarily due to increases in FTP credits on 

deposits allocated to business segments driven by increases in 

average deposits. The remaining decrease in net interest income was 

due to an increase in interest expense on long-term debt and a 

decrease in the benefit related to the FTP charges on loans and 

leases partially offset by an increase in interest income on taxable 
securities. Results for the year ended December 31, 2015 were 
impacted by a benefit of $50 million compared to a benefit of $260 

million for the year ended December 31, 2014 due to reductions in 

the ALLL. Noninterest income was $822 million for the year ended 
December 31, 2015 compared to $253 million for the year ended 

December 31, 2014. The increase in noninterest income included 

the impact of a gain of $331 million on the sale of Vantiv, Inc. 
shares in the fourth quarter of 
2015 compared to a gain of $125 
million in 2014. The positive valuation adjustments on the stock 

warrant associated with Vantiv Holding, LLC were $236 million and 

$31 million for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, 

respectively. During the fourth
 quarter of 2015, the Bancorp 
recognized a gain of $89 million on both the sale and exercise of a 

portion of the warrant associated with Vantiv Holding, LLC. 

Additionally, the Bancorp recognized a gain of $49 million from the 
payment from Vantiv, Inc. to terminate a portion of a TRA and also 
recognized a gain of $31 million associated with the annual TRA 

payment during the fourth quarter of 2015. The Bancorp recognized 

a gain of $23 million associated with the TRA during the fourth 

quarter of 2014. Equity method earnings from the Bancorp™s 

interest in Vantiv Holding, LLC 
increased $15 million from the year 
ended December 31, 2014. Noninterest income also included $37 

million in negative valuation adjustments related to the Visa total 
return swap for the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to $38 
million for the year ended December 31, 2014.
 Noninterest expense for the year ended December 31, 2015 
was an expense of $64 million compared to a benefit of $15 million 

for the year ended December 31, 2014. The increase was primarily 

due to an increase in personne
l costs and an increase in the 
provision for the reserve for unfunded commitments as well as 

increases in FDIC insurance and 
other taxes, donations expense, 
technology and communications expense and marketing expense. 
The increase was partially offset by decreased litigation and 
regulatory activity and increased corporate overhead allocations 

from General Corporate and Other to the other business segments.
  Comparison of the year ended 2014 with 2013 

Net interest income decreased $146 million from the year ended 

December 31, 2013 primarily due to increases in FTP credits on 

deposits allocated to business segments driven by increases in 

average deposits. The remaining decrease in net interest income was 

due to an increase in interest expense on long-term debt and a 

decrease in the benefit related to the FTP charges on loans and 
leases partially offset by an increase in interest income on taxable 
securities. Results for the year ended December 31, 2014 were 

impacted by a benefit of $260 million compared to a benefit of $272 

for the year ended December 31, 2013 due to reductions in the 

ALLL. 
Noninterest income was $253 million for the year ended 
December 31, 2014 compared to $654 million for the year ended 

December 31, 2013. The year ended December 31, 2014 included 
the impact of a gain of $125 million on the sale of Vantiv, Inc. 
shares in the second quarter of
 2014 compared to gains totaling 
$327 million during the second and third quarters of 2013. The 

Bancorp also recognized gains of $23 million and $9 million 

associated with a TRA with Vantiv
, Inc. in the fourth quarter of 
2014 and 2013, respectively. The positive valuation adjustments on 

the stock warrant associated with Vantiv Holding, LLC were $31 

million and $206 million for the years ended December 31, 2014 
and 2013, respectively. Additionally, the equity method earnings 
from the Bancorp™s interest in Vantiv Holding, LLC decreased $29 

million from the year ended December 31, 2013. Noninterest 

income also included $38 million in negative valuation adjustments 

related to the Visa total return swap for the year ended December 

31, 2014 compared to $31 million for the year ended December 31, 

2013. Noninterest expense for the year ended December 31, 2014 
was a benefit of $15 million compared to an expense of $161 
million for the year ended December 31, 2013. The decrease was 

driven by decreases in compensation expense, FDIC insurance and 

other taxes and litigation and regulatory activity partially offset by a 

decrease in the benefit from other noninterest expense driven by 

decreased corporate overhead al
locations from General Corporate 
and Other to the other business segments. 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  50  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 FOURTH QUARTER REVIEW The Bancorp™s 2015 fourth quarte
r net income available to common 
shareholders was $634 million, or $0.79 per diluted share, compared 
to net income available to common sh
areholders of $366 million, or 
$0.45 per diluted share, for the 
third quarter of 2015 and net income 
available to common shareholders of $362 million, or $0.43 per 

diluted share, for the fourth quarter of 2014.  
Net interest income on an FTE basis was $904 million during 
the fourth quarter of 2015 and decr
eased $2 million from the third 
quarter of 2015 and increased $16 million from the fourth quarter 

of 2014. The decrease from the third quarter of 2015 was primarily 
driven by the impact of the issuance of $2.4 billion of long-term 
debt during the third quarter of 2015, the $750 million auto 

securitization completed in Nov
ember of 2015 and commercial loan 
yield compression, partially offset 
by higher average loan balances. 
The increase in net interest in
come in comparison to the fourth 
quarter of 2014 was driven by higher investment securities balances, 

partially offset by a decline due to changes to the Bancorp™s deposit 

advance product beginning January 1, 2015.  
Fourth quarter 2015 noninterest income of $1.1 billion 
increased $391 million compared to
 the third quarter of 2015 and 
increased $451 million compared to 
the fourth quarter of 2014. The 
increase from the third quarter of 2015 was primarily due to an 

increase in other noninterest income. The year-over-year increase 

was primarily the result of increases in other noninterest income and 

mortgage banking net revenue, partially offset by lower corporate 

banking revenue. Service charges on deposits of $144 million decreased $1 
million from the previous quarter and increased $2 million 

compared to the fourth quarter 
of 2014. The decrease from the 
third quarter of 2015 was primarily du
e to a decrease in retail service 
charges due to lower overdraft occurrences. The increase from the 

fourth quarter of 2014 was driven 
by an increase in commercial 
service charges due to an increase in activity from existing 

customers and new customer acquisition.  
Corporate banking revenue of $104 million was flat compared 
to the previous quarter and decr
eased $16 million from the fourth 
quarter of 2014. The year-over-yea
r decrease was driven by lower 
loan syndications revenue, fore
ign exchange fees and business 
lending fees, partially offset by higher lease remarketing and 

institutional sales revenue. The decr
ease in syndication fees from the fourth quarter of 2014 was the result of decreased activity in the 

market and the Bancorp™s reduced leveraged loan appetite. 
Mortgage banking net revenue was $74 million in the fourth 
quarter of 2015 compared to $71 million in the third quarter of 2015 

and $61 million in the fourth quart
er of 2014. Fourth quarter 2015 
originations were $1.8 billion, compared with $2.3 billion in the 

previous quarter and $1.7 billion 
in the fourth quarter of 2014. 
Fourth quarter 2015 originations resulted in gains of $37 million on 

mortgages sold, compared with gains of $46 million during the 

previous quarter and $36 million duri
ng the fourth quarter of 2014. 
The decrease from the prior quarter was driven by lower production 
due to an increase in interest rate
s during the fourth quarter of 2015. The increase from the prior year was due to stronger refinancing 

activity during the fourth quarter of 2015. Gross mortgage servicing 

fees were $53 million in the four
th quarter of 2015, $54 million in 
the third quarter of 2015 and $60 m
illion in the fourth quarter of 
2014. Mortgage banking net revenue is
 also affected by net servicing 
asset valuation adjustments, which include MSR amortization and 
MSR valuation adjustments, including mark-to-market adjustments 
on free-standing derivatives used to economically hedge the MSR 

portfolio. These net servicing asset valuation adjustments were 

negative $16 million and negative $29 million in the fourth and third 
quarters of 2015, respectively, and negative $34 million in the fourth 
quarter of 2014.  Investment advisory revenue of $102 million decreased $1 
million from the previous quarter and increased $2 million from the 

fourth quarter of 2014. The declin
e from the third quarter of 2015 
was due to a decrease in securities and brokerage fees. The year-

over-year increase was due to an in
crease in private client services 
revenue.  
Card and processing revenue of $77 million was flat compared 
to the third quarter of 2015 and in
creased $1 million compared to 
the fourth quarter of 2014. The in
crease from the prior year was 
driven by an increase in the numb
er of actively used cards and an 
increase in customer spend volume. 
Other noninterest income of $602 million increased $389 
million compared to the third quar
ter of 2015 and increased $452 
million from the fourth quarter of
 2014. Fourth quarter 2015 results 
included a $331 million gain on the sale of Vantiv, Inc. shares, an 

$89 million gain on both the sale and exercise of a portion of the 
warrant associated with Vantiv, Holding, LLC, a $49 million gain 
from a payment received from Vantiv, Inc. to terminate a portion of 

the TRA, a $31 million gain from Vantiv, Inc. pursuant to the TRA 

and a $21 million positive valuation adjustment on the Vantiv 

Holding, LLC warrant. This compares with a $130 million positive 

warrant valuation adjustment in the third quarter of 2015, and a $56 

million positive warrant valuation adjustment in the fourth quarter 

of 2014 as well as $23 million in 
gains pursuant to Fifth Third™s 
TRA with Vantiv Holding, LLC reco
gnized in the fourth quarter of 
2014. Quarterly results also included 
charges related to the valuation 
of the total return swap entered into as part of the 2009 sale of Visa, 

Inc. Class B shares. Negative valuation adjustments on this swap 

were $10 million, $8 million and $19 
million in the fourth quarter of 
2015, the third quarter of 2015 an
d the fourth quarter of 2014, 
respectively. The net gains on investment securities were $1 million in the 
fourth quarter of 2015 and $4 milli
on in the fourth quarter of 2014. 
There were no net gains on investment securities during the third 
quarter of 2015.  Noninterest expense of $963 million increased $20 million 
from the previous quarter and incr
eased $45 million from the fourth 
quarter of 2014. The increase in noninterest expense compared to 

the third quarter of 2015 was driven by a $10 million contribution to 

the Fifth Third Foundation and higher net occupancy expense. The 
increase in noninterest expense from the fourth quarter of 2014 was 
primarily due to a $10 million contribution to the Fifth Third 

Foundation, higher personnel costs, net occupancy expense and 

technology and communications expense.  
The ALLL as a percentage of portfolio loans and leases was 
1.37% as of December 31, 2015, compared to 1.35% as of 

September 30, 2015 and 1.47% as of December 31, 2014. The 

provision for loan and lease losses was $91 million in the fourth 
quarter of 2015 compared to $156 million in the third quarter of 
2015 and $99 million in the fourth qua
rter of 2014. Net charge-offs 
were $80 million in the fourth quart
er of 2015, or 34 bps of average 
portfolio loans and leases on an annualized basis, compared with net 

charge-offs of $188 million in th
e third quarter of 2015 and $191 
million in the fourth quarter of
 2014. The third quarter of 2015 
included a charge-off of $102 million associated with the 

restructuring of a student loan ba
cked commercial credit originated 
in 2007. During the fourth quarter of 2014, the Bancorp transferred 
certain residential mortgage loans from
 the portfolio to held for sale 
resulting in a charge-off of $87 million.  
                 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  51  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 23: QUARTERLY INFORMATION (unaudited)
                     2015 
 2014 
 For the three months ended ($ in millions, except per share data)
  12/319/30
6/30
3/31
12/31
9/30
6/30
3/31
Net interest income
(a) $ 904 
906
892 
852
 888 
 908
 905 
 898
Provision for loan and lease losses
   91 
 156
 79 
 69
 99 
 71
 76 
 69
Noninterest income   1,104 
 713
 556 
 630
 653 
 520
 736 
 564
Noninterest expense
   963 
 943
 947 
 923
 918 
 888
 954 
 950
Net income attributable to Bancorp 
   657 
 381
 315 
 361
 385 
 340
 439 
 318
Net income available to common shareholders
   634 
 366
 292 
 346
 362 
 328
 416 
 309
Earnings per share, basic 
   0.80 
 0.46
 0.36 
 0.42
 0.44 
 0.39
 0.49 
 0.36
Earnings per share, diluted 
   0.79 
 0.45
 0.36 
 0.42
 0.43 
 0.39
 0.49 
 0.36
(a) Amounts presented on an FTE basis. The FTE adjustment was 
$5 
for all periods presented.
 COMPARISON OF THE YEAR ENDED 2014 WITH 2013 
The Bancorp™s net income available to common shareholders for 

the year ended December 31, 2014 was $1.4 billion, or $1.66 per 

diluted share, which was net of $67 million in preferred stock 

dividends. The Bancorp™s net 
income available to common 
shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2013 was $1.8 billion, 
or $2.02 per diluted share, which was net of $37 million in preferred 
stock dividends. The provision for loan and lease losses increased to 

$315 million during the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to 

$229 million during the year ended December 31, 2013 as the result 

of an increase in net charge-o
ffs related to certain impaired 
commercial and industrial loans and 
an increase in net charge-offs 
loans related to the transfer of 
certain residential mortgage loans 
from the portfolio to held for sale during 2014. The impact of these 
increases in charge-offs on provision expense during the year ended 
December 31, 2014 was partially offset by decreases in 

nonperforming loans and leases and improved delinquency metrics. 

Net charge-offs as a percent of av
erage portfolio loans and leases 
increased to 0.64% during 2014 compared to 0.58% during the year 

ended December 31, 2013.  
Net interest income was $3.6 billion for both of the years 
ended December 31, 2014 and 2013. For the year ended December 
31, 2014, net interest income was positively impacted by an increase 
in average taxable securities of $5
.4 billion coupled with an increase 
in yields on these securities of 16 bps compared to the year ended 

December 31, 2013. Net interest income also included the benefit 

of an increase in average loans and 
leases of $2.0 billion as well as a 
decrease in the rates paid on long-term debt for the year ended 

December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 31, 

2013. These benefits were partially 
offset by lower yields on loans 
and leases and an increase in average long-term debt of $5.0 billion 
for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended 

December 31, 2013.  
Noninterest income decreased $754 million during the year 
ended December 31, 2014 compared to the year ended December 

31, 2013. The decrease from December 31, 2013 was primarily due 

to decreases in mortgage banking net revenue and other noninterest 

income. Mortgage banking net revenue decreased $390 million for 
the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due 
to decreases in origination fees and gains on loan sales and net 

mortgage servicing revenue. Other noninterest income decreased 

$429 million compared to the ye
ar ended December 31, 2013. The 
decrease included the impact of a gain of $125 million on the sale of 

Vantiv, Inc. shares in the second 
quarter of 2014, compared to gains 
totaling $327 million during the second and third quarters of 2013. 

The Bancorp recognized gains of $23 million and $9 million 
associated with the TRA with Vantiv
, Inc. in the fourth quarters of 
2014 and 2013, respectively. Additionally, other noninterest income 

decreased for the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to 2013 

primarily due to positive valuation adjustments on the stock warrant 

associated with Vantiv Holding, LLC of $31 million during 2014 
compared to positive valuation 
adjustments of $206 million during 
2013 and a decrease in equity method earnings from Vantiv 

Holding, LLC. Noninterest expense decreased $252 million during the year 
ended December 31, 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due to 

decreases in total personnel costs and other noninterest expense. 
The decrease in total personnel costs was driven by a decrease in 
incentive compensation primarily in the mortgage business due to 

lower production levels and a decrease in base compensation and 

employee benefits as a result of a decline in the number of full-time 

equivalent employees. Other noninterest expense decreased during 

the year ended December 31, 2014 compared to 2013 primarily due 

to decreases in loan and lease expense, FDIC insurance and other 

taxes, losses and adjustments, marketing expense, debt 
extinguishment costs and an increase in the benefit from the reserve 
for unfunded commitments, partially offset by an increase in 

impairment on affordable housing investments.  
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  52  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS 
Loans and Leases 
The Bancorp classifies its commercial loans and leases based upon 
their primary purpose and consumer loans and leases based upon 
product or collateral. Table 24 summarizes end of period loans and 
leases, including loans held for sale and Table 25 summarizes 
average total loans and leases, 
including loans held for sale.                        TABLE 24: COMPONENTS OF TOTAL LOANS AND LEASES (INCLUDING HELD FOR SALE)
 As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
2015 
 2014 
 2013  
2012  
2011  
Commercial loans and leases: 
                   Commercial and industrial loans 
$42,151
 40,801 
  39,347 
  36,077 
 30,828
   Commercial mortgage loans 
6,991
 7,410 
  8,069 
  9,116 
 10,214
   Commercial construction loans 
3,214
 2,071 
  1,041 
  707 
 1,037
   Commercial leases 
3,854
 3,721 
  3,626 
  3,549 
 3,531
 Total commercial loans and leases 
56,210
 54,003 
  52,083 
  49,449 
 45,610
 Consumer loans and leases: 
                  Residential mortgage loans 
14,424 13,582 
  13,570 
  14,873 
 13,474
   Home equity 
8,336
 8,886 
  9,246 
  10,018 
 10,719
   Automobile loans 
11,497 12,037 
  11,984 
  11,972 
 11,827
   Credit card 
2,360
 2,401 
  2,294 
  2,097 
 1,978
   Other consumer loans and leases 
658
 436 
  381 
  312 
 364
 Total consumer loans and leases 
37,275
 37,342 
  37,475 
  39,272 
 38,362
 Total loans and leases 
$93,485
 91,345 
  89,558 
  88,721 
 83,972
 Total portfolio loans and leases (excluding loans held for sale) 
$92,582
 90,084 
  88,614 
  85,782 
 81,018
               Loans and leases, including loans held for sale, increased $2.1 
billion, or 2%, from December 31, 
2014. The increase in loans and 
leases from December 31, 2014 was the result of a $2.2 billion, or 
4%, increase in commercial loans and 
leases partially offset by a $67 
million decrease in consumer loans and leases.  Commercial loans and leases increased from December 31, 
2014 primarily due to increases in
 commercial and industrial loans 
and commercial construction loans partially offset by a decrease in 

commercial mortgage loans. Co
mmercial and industrial loans 
increased $1.4 billion, or 3%, from December 31, 2014 and 

commercial construction loans increased $1.1 billion, or 55%, from 
December 31, 2014 primarily as a result
 of an increase in new loan 
origination activity resulting from an increase in demand and 

targeted marketing efforts. Commercial mortgage loans decreased 

$419 million, or 6%, from December 31, 2014 primarily due to a 
decline in new loan origination activity driven by increased 
competition and an increase in paydowns.  
Consumer loans and leases decreased from December 31, 2014 
primarily due to decreases in home equity and automobile loans 
partially offset by increases in residential mortgage loans and other 

consumer loans and leases. Home e
quity decreased $550 million, or 
6%, from December 31, 2014 and automobile loans decreased $540 

million, or 4%, from December 31, 2014 as payoffs exceeded new 

loan production. Residential mortga
ge loans increased $842 million, 
or 6%, from December 31, 2014 primarily due to the continued 

retention of certain conforming ARMs and certain other fixed-rate 
loans originated during the year ended December 31, 2015. Other 
consumer loans and leases increased $222 million, or 51%, from 

December 31, 2014 primarily as a result
 of an increase in new loan 
origination activity.  
            TABLE 25: COMPONENTS OF TOTAL AVERAGE LOANS AND LEASES (INCLUDING HELD FOR SALE)
 For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
 2015 
 2014 
 2013  
2012  
2011  
Commercial loans and leases: 
                   Commercial and industrial loans 
$42,594 
 41,178 
  37,770 
  32,911
 28,546 
   Commercial mortgage loans 
7,121 
 7,745 
  8,481 
  9,686
 10,447 
   Commercial construction loans 
2,717 
 1,492 
  793 
  835
 1,740 
   Commercial leases 
3,796 
 3,585 
  3,565 
  3,502
 3,341 
 Total commercial loans and leases 
56,228 
 54,000 
  50,609 
  46,934
 44,074 
 Consumer loans and leases: 
                   Residential mortgage loans 
13,798  13,344 
  14,428 
  13,370
 11,318 
   Home equity 
8,592 
 9,059 
  9,554 
  10,369
 11,077 
   Automobile loans 
11,847 
 12,068 
  12,021 
  11,849
 11,352 
   Credit card 
2,303 
 2,271 
  2,121 
  1,960
 1,864 
   Other consumer loans and leases 
571 
 385 
  360 
  340
 529 
 Total consumer loans and leases 
37,111 
 37,127 
  38,484 
  37,888
 36,140 
 Total average loans and leases 
$93,339 
 91,127 
  89,093 
  84,822
 80,214 
 Total average portfolio loans and leases (excluding loans held for sale) 
$92,423 
 90,485 
  86,950 
  82,733
 78,533 
               Average loans and leases, includin
g loans held for sale, increased 
$2.2 billion, or 2%, from December 31, 2014. The increase from 

December 31, 2014 was the result of a $2.2 billion, or 4%, increase 

in average commercial loans and le
ases partially offset by a $16 
million decrease in average consumer loans and leases. Average commercial loans and leases increased from 
December 31, 2014 primarily due to increases in average 

commercial and industrial loans and average commercial 

construction loans partially offset by a decrease in average 
commercial mortgage loans. Aver
age commercial and industrial 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  53  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 loans increased $1.4 billion, or 3%, from December 31, 2014 and 
average commercial construction loans increased $1.2 billion, or 

82%, from December 31, 2014 primarily as
 a result of an increase in 
new loan origination activity result
ing from an increase in demand 
and targeted marketing efforts. Average commercial mortgage loans 

decreased $624 million, or 8%, from December 31, 2014 due to a 
decline in new loan origination activity driven by increased 
competition and an increase in paydowns. 
Average consumer loans and leases decreased from December 
31, 2014 primarily due to decreases in average home equity and 

average automobile loans partially offset by increases in average 
residential mortgage loans and average other consumer loans and 
leases. Average home equity decreased $467 million, or 5%, from 

December 31, 2014 and average automobile loans decreased $221 

million, or 2%, from December 31, 2014 as payoffs exceeded new 

loan production. Average residential mortgage loans increased $454 

million, or 3%, from December 31, 2014 primarily driven by the 
continued retention of certain conforming ARMs and certain other 
fixed-rate loans. Average other c
onsumer loans and leases increased 
$186 million, or 48%, from December 31, 2014 primarily as a result 

of an increase in new loan origination activity. 
Investment Securities 
The Bancorp uses investment securities as a means of managing 

interest rate risk, providing liqui
dity support and providing collateral 
for pledging purposes. As of December 31, 2015, total investment 
securities were $29.5 billion compared to $23.0 billion at December 
31, 2014. The taxable investment securities portfolio had an 

effective duration of 5.1 years at December 31, 2015 compared to 

4.5 years at December 31, 2014.  
At December 31, 2015, the Bancorp™s investment portfolio 
consisted primarily of AAA-rated 
available-for-sale securities. 
Securities classified as below investment grade were immaterial as of 

December 31, 2015 and 2014. The Bancorp™s management has 
evaluated the securities in an unrealized loss position in the 
available-for-sale and held-to-maturity portfolios for OTTI. The 
Bancorp recognized $5 million, $24 million and $74 million of 

OTTI on its available-for-sale and other debt securities, included in 
securities gains, net and securities
 gains, net Œ non-qualifying hedges 
on mortgage servicing rights in the Consolidated Statements of 

Income during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, 

respectively. The Bancorp did not recognize OTTI on any of its 

available-for-sale equity securities or
 held-to-maturity debt securities 
during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. Refer to 

Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the 

Bancorp™s methodology for both classifying investment securities 
and management™s evaluation of securities in an unrealized loss 
position for OTTI. 
                             TABLE 26: COMPONENTS OF INVESTMENT SECURITIES
                        As of December 31 ($ in millions)
    2015 
 2014 
 2013  
2012  
2011  
Available-for-sale and other secu
rities: (amortized cost basis)
                          U.S. Treasury and fede
ral agencies securities
  $1,155 1,545 
   1,549 
   1,771 
  1,953
   Obligations of states and political subdivisions securities
    50 185 
   187 
   203 
  96
   Mortgage-backed securities:
                            Agency residential mortgage-backed securities
    14,811 11,968 
  12,294 
  8,403 
 9,743
     Agency commercial mortgage-backed securities
    7,795
 4,465 
   - 
   - 
  -     Non-agency residential mo
rtgage-backed securities
     -  - 
   - 
   - 
 28     Non-agency commercial mortgage-backed securities
    2,801
 1,489 
  1,368 
  1,089 
 498
   Asset-backed securities an
d other debt securities
    1,363 1,324 
  2,146 
  2,072 
 1,266
   Equity securities
(a)
   703
 701 
  865 
  1,033 
 1,030
 Total available-for-sale and other securities
  $28,678
 21,677 
  18,409 
  14,571 
 14,614
 Held-to-maturity securities: (amortized cost basis)
                          Obligations of states and political subdivisions securities
  $68 186 
  207 
  282 
 320
   Asset-backed securities an
d other debt securities
    2 1   1   2  2 Total held-to-maturity securities
  $70 187 
  208 
  284 
 322
 Trading securities: (fair value)
                          U.S. Treasury and fede
ral agencies securities
  $19 14 
  5   7   -   Obligations of states and political subdivisions securities
    9 8   13 
  17 
 9   Mortgage-backed securities:
                            Agency residential mortgage-backed securities
    6 9   3   7  11     Non-agency residential mo
rtgage-backed securities
     -  - 
   - 
   - 
 1   Asset-backed securities an
d other debt securities
  19 13 
  7   15 
 12   Equity securities
    333
 316 
  315 
  161 
 144
 Total trading securities
  $386
 360 
  343 
  207 
 177
 (a) Equity securities consist of FHLB, FRB and 
DTCC restricted stock holdings that are carried at par, FHLMC and FNMA preferred sto
ck holdings and certain mutual
 fund holdings and equity 
security holdings. 
On an amortized cost basis, available-for-sale and other securities 
increased $7.0 billion, or 32%, from December 31, 2014 primarily 

due to repositioning of the portfolio for LCR purposes resulting in 

increases in agency residential mo
rtgage-backed securities, agency 
commercial mortgage-backed securities and non-agency commercial 

mortgage-backed securities. Agency residential mortgage-backed 

securities increased $2.8 billion, or 24%, from December 31, 2014 
primarily due to the purchase of $18.8 billion of agency residential 
mortgage-backed securities partially 
offset by sales of $13.6 billion 
and paydowns of $2.5 billion during the year ended December 31, 
2015. Agency commercial mortgage-backed securities increased $3.3 

billion, or 75%, from December 31, 2014 primarily due to the 

purchase of $5.6 billion of agency commercial mortgage-backed 

securities partially offset by sales of $2.1 billion and paydowns of 

$146 million during the year ended December 31, 2015. Non-agency 

commercial mortgage-backed securities increased $1.3 billion, or 
88%, from December 31, 2014 primarily due to the purchase of $1.9 
billion of non-agency commercial mortgage-backed securities 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  54  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 partially offset by sales of $483 million and paydowns of $105 
million during the year ended December 31, 2015. 
On an amortized cost basis, available-for-sale and other 
securities were 23% and 18% of total interest-earning assets at 
December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The estimated weighted-
average life of the debt securities in the available-for-sale and other 

portfolio was 6.4 years at December
 31, 2015 compared to 5.8 years 
at December 31, 2014. In addition, at December 31, 2015, the 

available-for-sale and other securities portfolio had a weighted-

average yield of 3.19% compared to 3.31% at December 31, 2014. 
Information presented in Table 27 is on a weighted-average life 
basis, anticipating future pr
epayments. Yield information is 
presented on an FTE basis and is computed using amortized cost 
balances. Maturity and yield calculat
ions for the total available-for-
sale and other portfolio exclude equity securities that have no stated 

yield or maturity. Total net unrealized gains on the available-for-sale 
and other securities portfolio were $366 million at December 31, 
2015 compared to $731 million at December 31, 2014. The decrease 

from December 31, 2014 was primarily due to an increase in interest 

rates and wider spreads during the year ended December 31, 2015. 

The fair value of investment securities is impacted by interest rates, 

credit spreads, market volatility and liquidity conditions. The fair 

value of investment securities generally increases when interest rates 

decrease or when credit spreads contract. 
                       TABLE 27: CHARACTERISTICS OF AVAILA
BLE-FOR-SALE AND OTHER SECURITIES
                 Weighted-Average 
Weighted-Average 
 As of December 31, 2015
 ($ in millions)
  Amortized Cost Fair Value 
Life (in years) 
Yield 
 U.S. Treasury and federa
l agencies securities:
                     Average life of 1 year or less
  $ 549 
   561 
   0.70 
   3.76 
%    Average life 1 Œ 5 years
   530 
 550 
 1.50 
 3.97 
     Average life 5 Œ 10 years
   76 
 76 
 5.10 
 1.80 
   Total  $ 1,155 
 1,187 
 1.30 
 3.72 
%  Obligations of states and political subdivisions securities:
(a)    Average life of 1 year or less
   14 
 14 
 0.80 
 0.01 
   Average life 1 Œ 5 years
   1 
 1 
 1.80 
 5.79 
   Average life 5 Œ 10 years
   35 
 37 
 7.30 
 3.93 
 Total  $ 50 
 52 
 5.30 
 2.80 
%  Agency residential mortgage-backed securities:
     Average life of 1 year or less
   13 
 14 
 0.70 
 4.15 
   Average life 1 Œ 5 years
   4,992 
 5,106 
 3.90 
 3.49 
   Average life 5 Œ 10 years
   9,154 
 9,295 
 6.50 
 3.18 
   Average life greater than 10 years
   652 
 666 
 12.90 
 3.45 
 Total  $ 14,811 
 15,081 
 5.90 
 3.30 
%  Agency commercial mortgage-backed securities:
    Average life 1 Œ 5 years
   1,063 
 1,083 
 4.40 
 3.11 
    Average life 5 Œ 10 years
   6,542 
 6,585 
 8.20 
 2.99 
    Average life greater than 10 years
   190 
 194 
 13.10 
 2.86 
  Total  $ 7,795 
 7,862 
 7.80 
 3.01 
%  Non-agency commercial mortgage-backed securities:
    Average life of 1 year or less
   117 
 118 
 0.50 
 3.09 
   Average life 1 Œ 5 years
   365 
 370 
 2.80 
 3.26 
    Average life 5 Œ 10 years
   2,319 
 2,316 
 8.10 
 3.30 
 Total  $ 2,801 
 2,804 
 7.10 
 3.29 
%  Asset-backed securities an
d other debt securities:
     Average life of 1 year or less
   89 
 87 
 0.20 
 2.17 
   Average life 1 Œ 5 years
   606 
 607 
 2.70 
 2.73 
   Average life 5 Œ 10 years
   207 
 199 
 8.30 
 2.62 
   Average life greater than 10 years
   461 
 462 
 14.00 
 2.10 
 Total  $ 1,363 
 1,355 
 7.20 
 2.46 
%  Equity securities
   703 
 703 
 Total available-for-sale and other securities
  $ 28,678 
 29,044 
 6.40 
 3.19 
%  (a) Taxable-equivalent yield adjustments included in the above tabl
e are 0.00%, 0.24%, 2.09% and 1.46% for securities with an avera
ge life of 1 year or less, 1-5 years, 5-10 years and in total, 
respectively. 
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  55  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Deposits 
The Bancorp™s deposit balances represent an important source of 
funding and revenue growth opportunity. The Bancorp continues to 

focus on core deposit growth in 
its retail and commercial franchises by improving customer satisfacti
on, building full relationships and 
offering competitive rates. Core deposits represented 71% of the 

Bancorp™s average asset funding base for both of the years ended 

December 31, 2015 and 2014. 
                       TABLE 28: COMPONENTS OF DEPOSITS 
                        As of December 31 ($ in millions)
    2015 
 2014 
 2013  
2012  
2011  
Demand 
  $ 36,267 
  34,809 
 32,634 
  30,023 
 27,600 
 Interest checking     26,768 
  26,800 
 25,875 
  24,477 
 20,392 
 Savings     14,601 
  15,051 
 17,045 
  19,879 
 21,756 
 Money market     18,494 
  17,083 
 11,644 
  6,875 
 4,989 
 Foreign office
     464 
  1,114 
 1,976 
  885 
 3,250 
 Transaction deposits
     96,594 
  94,857 
 89,174 
  82,139 
 77,987 
 Other time     4,019 
  3,960 
 3,530 
  4,015 
 4,638 
 Core deposits
     100,613 
  98,817 
 92,704 
  86,154 
 82,625 
 Certificates $100,000 and over
(a)
    2,592 
  2,895 
 6,571 
  3,284 
 3,039 
 Other     - 
  - 
 -   79 
 46 
 Total deposits
  $ 103,205 
  101,712 
 99,275 
  89,517 
 85,710 
 (a) Includes $1,449
, $1,483, $1,479, $1,402 and $1,772
 of certificates $250,000 and over at 
December 31, 2015
, 2014, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 Core deposits increased $1.8 billion, or 2%, from December 31, 
2014, driven by an increase of $1.7 billion, or 2%, in transaction 

deposits. Transaction deposits increased from December 31, 2014 

due to increases in demand deposits and money market deposits, 

partially offset by decreases in sa
vings deposits and foreign office 
deposits. Demand deposits increased $1.5 billion, or 4%, from 
December 31, 2014 primarily due to 
higher balances per customer 
account and the acquisition of 
new commercial customers. Money 
market deposits increased $1.4 billion, or 8%, from December 31, 

2014 driven primarily by higher balances per commercial account 

and the acquisition of new commer
cial customers. The remaining 
increase in money market deposits was due to a promotional 
product offering causing balance 
migration from savings deposits 
which decreased $450 million, or 3%, from December 31, 2014. 

Foreign office deposits decreased $650 million, or 58%, from 

December 31, 2014 driven primarily by lower balances per 

commercial account.  
The Bancorp uses certificates $100,000 and over as a method 
to fund earning assets. At December 31, 2015, certificates $100,000 

and over decreased $303 million, or 10%, compared to December 

31, 2014 primarily due to the matu
rity and run-off of retail and 
institutional certificates of 
deposit since December 31, 2014.                        The following table presents the components of average deposits for the years ended December 31: 
        TABLE 29: COMPONENTS OF AVERAGE DEPOSITS
                      ($ in millions)
  2015 
 2014 
 2013  
2012  
2011  
Demand 
  $ 35,164 
  31,755 
 29,925 
  27,196 
 23,389 
 Interest checking   26,160 
  25,382 
 23,582 
  23,096 
 18,707 
 Savings   14,951 
  16,080 
 18,440 
  21,393 
 21,652 
 Money market   18,152 
  14,670 
 9,467 
  4,903 
 5,154 
 Foreign office
   817 
  1,828 
 1,501 
  1,528 
 3,490 
 Transaction deposits
   95,244 
  89,715 
 82,915 
  78,116 
 72,392 
 Other time   4,051 
  3,762 
 3,760 
  4,306 
 6,260 
 Core deposits
   99,295 
  93,477 
 86,675 
  82,422 
 78,652 
 Certificates $100,000 and over
(a)
  2,869 
  3,929 
 6,339 
  3,102 
 3,656 
 Other   57 
  - 
 17 
  27 
 7  Total average deposits
  $ 102,221 
  97,406 
 93,031 
  85,551 
 82,315 
 (a) Includes $1,410
, $1,424, $1,283, $1,678 and $1,732 of average certificates $250,000 and over during the years ended 
December 31,
 2015
, 2014, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 On an average basis, core deposi
ts increased $5.8 billion, or 6%, 
compared to December 31, 2014 due to
 increases of $5.5 billion, or 
6%, in average transaction deposits and $289 million, or 8%, in 

average other time deposits. The increase in average transaction 

deposits was driven by increases in average money market deposits, 

average demand deposits and average interest checking deposits, 
partially offset by decreases in av
erage savings deposits and average 
foreign office deposits. Average money market deposits increased 

$3.5 billion, or 24%, from December 31, 2014 due to a balance 

migration from average savings deposits which decreased $1.1 

billion, or 7%, from December 31, 2014 driven by a promotional 

product offering. The remaining increase in average money market 
deposits was due to an increase in average commercial account 

balances and the acquisition of ne
w commercial customers. Average 
demand deposits increased $3.4 billion, or 11%, from December 31, 
2014 primarily due to an increase
 in average commercial account 
balances and new commercial customer
 accounts. Average interest 
checking deposits increased $778 million, or 3%, from December 

31, 2014 primarily due to an increa
se in average commercial account 
balances and new commercial custo
mer accounts. Average foreign 
office deposits decreased $1.0 billion, or 55%, from December 31, 
2014 primarily due to lower balan
ces per account for commercial 
customers. Average other time de
posits increased $289 million, or 
8%, from December 31, 2014 primarily driven by the acquisition of 

new customers due to promotional interest rates. Average 

certificates $100,000 and over decreased $1.1 billion, or 27%, from 

December 31, 2014 due primarily to the maturity and run-off of 

retail and institutional certificates of deposit since December 31, 

2014. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  56  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The contractual maturities of certificate
s $100,000 and over as of December 31, 2015 
are summarized in the following table: 
       TABLE 30: CONTRACTUAL MATURITIES OF CERTIFICATES $100,000 AND OVER
     ($ in millions)  
 2015  
Next 3 months 
$ 401 
 3-6 months 
  203 
 6-12 months 
  237 
 After 12 months 
  1,751 
 Total certificates $1
00,000 and over 
$ 2,592 
   The contractual maturities of other time deposits and certifi
cates $100,000 and over as of December 31, 2015 are summarized in 
the following table:       TABLE 31: CONTRACTUAL MATURITIES OF OTHER TIME DEPOSITS AND CERTIFICATES $100,000 AND OVER
     ($ in millions) 
 2015  
Next 12 months 
$ 2,425 
 13-24 months 
  1,570 
 25-36 months 
  637 
 37-48 months 
  1,025 
 49-60 months 
  930 
 After 60 months 
  24 
 Total other time deposits and certificates $100,000 and over 
$ 6,611 
   Borrowings
 Total borrowings increased $835 million, or 5%, from December 
31, 2014. Table 32 summarizes the end of period components of 
total borrowings. As of December 31, 2015, total borrowings as a 
percentage of interest-bearing lia
bilities were 21% compared to 20% 
at December 31, 2014.         TABLE 32: COMPONENTS OF BORROWINGS
                  As of December 31 ($ in millions)
  2015  
2014 
 2013  
2012  
2011  
Federal funds purchased 
$ 151 
  144 
   284 
   901 
  346 
 Other short-term borrowings 
 1,507 
  1,556 
   1,380 
   6,280 
  3,239 
 Long-term debt 
 15,844 
  14,967 
   9,633 
   7,085 
  9,682 
 Total borrowings 
$ 17,502 
  16,667 
   11,297 
   14,266 
  13,267 
           Other short-term borrowings decreased $49 million, or 3%, from 
December 31, 2014 driven primarily by a decrease in commercial 

repurchase agreements. Long-term debt increased $877 million, or 

6%, from December 31, 2014 primarily driven by issuances of $1.1 

billion of unsecured senior notes, 
$1.3 billion of unsecured senior 
bank notes and the issuance of 
asset-backed securities by a 
consolidated VIE of $750 million related to an automobile loan 
securitization in 2015. These increases were partially offset by the 
maturity of $500 million of subord
inated fixed-rate bank notes and 
$1.7 billion of paydowns on l
ong-term debt associated with 
automobile loan securitizati
ons. For additional information 
regarding automobile securitizati
ons and long-term debt, refer to 
Note 11 and Note 16, respectively, of the Notes to Consolidated 
Financial Statements. 
 TABLE 33: COMPONENTS OF AVERAGE BORROWINGS
                 For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
 2015 
 2014 
 2013  
2012  
 2011  
 Federal funds purchased 
$ 920 
  458 
  503 
   560 
  345 
 Other short-term borrowings 
  1,721 
  1,873 
  3,024 
   4,246 
  2,777 
 Long-term debt 
  14,677 
  12,928 
  7,914 
   9,043 
  10,154 
 Total average borrowings 
$ 17,318 
  15,259 
  11,441 
   13,849 
  13,276 
                    Average total borrowings increased $2.1 billion, or 13%, compared 
to December 31, 2014, due to increases in average long-term debt 

and average federal funds purchased, partially offset by a decrease in 

average other short-term borrowings. The increase in average long-

term debt of $1.7 billion, or 14%, was driven primarily by the 

issuances of long-term debt as discussed above and the issuance of 
asset-backed securities by a conso
lidated VIE of $1.0 billion related 
to an automobile loan securitization during the fourth quarter of 

2014. The impact of these issuances was partially offset by the 

aforementioned maturity of subordin
ated fixed-rate bank notes and 
paydowns on long-term debt associated with automobile loan 

securitizations since December 31, 2014. The level of average 

federal funds purchased and average other short-term borrowings 

can fluctuate significantly from period to period depending on 
funding needs and which sources are used to satisfy those needs. 
Information on the average rates paid on borrowings is presented in 
the Net Interest Income subsection of the Statements of Income 

Analysis section of MD&A. In addition, refer to the Liquidity Risk 

Management subsection of the Risk
 Management section of MD&A 
for a discussion on the role of borrowings in the Bancorp™s liquidity 

management. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  57  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 RISK MANAGEMENT - OVERVIEW 
Managing risk is an essential com
ponent of successfully operating a 
financial services company. The Bancorp™s risk management 

approach includes processes for 
identifying, assessing, managing, 
monitoring and reporting risks. The ERM division, led by the 
Bancorp™s Chief Risk Officer, ensures the consistency and adequacy 
of the Bancorp™s risk management a
pproach within the structure of 
the Bancorp™s operating model. Management within the lines of 

business and support functions asse
ss and manage risks associated 
with their activities and determine 
if actions need to be taken to 
strengthen risk management or redu
ce risk given their risk profile. 
They are responsible for considering risk when making business 

decisions and for integrating risk management into business 
processes. In addition, the Internal Audit division provides an 
independent assessment of the Bancorp™s internal control structure 

and related systems and processes. 
The assumption of risk requir
es robust and active risk 
management practices that comprise an integrated and 

comprehensive set of activities, measu
res and strategies that apply to 
the entire organization. The Bancorp has established a Risk Appetite 
Framework, approved by the Board, that provides the foundations 
of corporate risk capacity, risk 
appetite and risk tolerances. The 
Bancorp™s risk capacity is represented by its available financial 

resources. Risk capacity sets an 
absolute limit on risk-assumption in 
the Bancorp™s annual and strategic plans. The Bancorp understands 

that not all financial resources may persist as viable loss buffers over 

time. Further, consideration must
 be given to regulatory capital 
buffers required per Capital Policy 
Targets that would reduce risk 
capacity. Those factors take the fo
rm of capacity adjustments to 
arrive at an Operating Risk Capacity which represents the operating 
risk level the Bancorp can assume while maintaining its solvency 

standard. The Bancorp™s policy cu
rrently discounts its Operating 
Risk Capacity by a minimum of 5% 
to provide a buffer; as a result, 
the Bancorp™s risk appetite is limited by policy to, at most, 95% of 

its Operating Risk Capacity. Economic capital is the amount of unencumbered financial 
resources required to support the Bancorp™s risks. The Bancorp 
measures economic capital under the 
assumption that it expects to 
maintain debt ratings at strong investment grade levels over time. 

The Bancorp™s capital policies require that the Operating Risk 

Capacity less the aforementioned buffer exceed the calculated 

economic capital required in its business. 
Risk appetite is the aggregate amount of risk the Bancorp is 
willing to accept in pursuit of its strategic and financial objectives. 

By establishing boundaries arou
nd risk taking and business 
decisions, and by incorporating the needs and goals of its 
shareholders, regulators, rating agencies and customers, the 

Bancorp™s risk appetite is aligned with its priorities and goals. Risk 

tolerance is the maximum amount of risk applicable to each of the 

eight specific risk categories in
cluded in its Enterprise Risk 
Management Framework. This is ex
pressed primarily in qualitative 
terms; however certain risk types 
also have quantitative metrics that 
are used to measure the Bancorp™s level of risk against its risk 
tolerances. The Bancorp™s risk appetite and risk tolerances are 
supported by risk targets and risk limits. Those limits are used to 

monitor the amount of risk assumed at a granular level. On a 

quarterly basis, the Risk and Compliance Committee of the Board 

reviews current assessments of each
 of the eight risk types relative 
to the established tolerance. Information supporting these 

assessments, including policy limits 
and key risk indicators, is also 
reported to the Risk and Complian
ce Committee of the Board. Any 
results outside of tolerance requir
e the development of an action 
plan that describes actions to be taken to return the measure to 

within the tolerance. The risks faced by the Bancorp include, but are not limited to, 
credit, market, liquidity, operation
al, regulatory compliance, legal, 
reputational and strategic. Each of these risks is managed through 

the Bancorp™s risk program which includes the following key 
functions:  ŁERM 
is responsible for developing and overseeing the 
implementation of risk programs 
and reporting that facilitate 
a broad integrated view of risk. The department also leads 

the continual fostering of a strong risk management culture 

and the framework, policies and committees that suppor
t effective risk governance, including the oversight o
f Sarbanes-Oxley compliance;  ŁCommercial Credit Risk Management is responsible for 
overseeing the safety and soun
dness of the commercial loan 
portfolio within an independent portfolio managemen
t framework that supports the Bancorp™s commercial loan 

growth strategies and underw
riting practices, ensurin
g portfolio optimization and appropriate risk controls; 
 ŁRisk Strategies and Reporting is responsible for quantitative 
analysis needed to support the commercial dual ratin
g methodology, ALLL methodology 
and analytics needed to 
assess credit risk and develop mi
tigation strategies related to 
that risk. The department also provides oversight, reportin
g and monitoring of commercial underwriting and credit 

administration processes. The 
Risk Strategies and Reportin
g department is also responsible for the economic capital 

program; 
 ŁConsumer Credit Risk Management is responsible for 
overseeing the safety and soundness of the consumer 
portfolio within an independent management framework that 

supports the Bancorp™s consumer loan growth strategies, 

ensuring portfolio optimization, appropriate risk controls 

and oversight, reporting, and monitoring of underwriting and 

credit administration processes; 
 ŁOperational Risk Management works with lines of business 
and regional management to maintain processes to monitor 
and manage all aspects of operational risk, including ensur
ing consistency in application of operational risk programs; 
 ŁBank Protection oversees and manages fraud prevention and 
detection and provides investigative and recovery services for 

the Bancorp; 
 ŁCapital Markets Risk Management is responsible for 
instituting, monitoring, and reporting appropriate trading 
limits, monitoring liquidity, interest rate risk and risk 
tolerances within Treasury, Mortgage and Capital Markets 
groups and utilizing a value at risk model for Bancorp marke
t risk exposure;  ŁRegulatory Compliance Risk Management provides 
independent oversight to ensure that an enterprise-wide 

framework, including processes and procedures, are in place 

to comply with applicable la
ws, regulations, rules and other 
regulatory requirements; internal policies and procedures; 
and principles of integrity and 
fair dealing applicable to the 
Bancorp™s activities and functions The Bancorp focuses on 

managing regulatory compliance risk in accordance with the 

Bancorp™s integrated risk management framework, which 

ensures consistent processes for identifying, assessing, 

managing, monitoring and reporting risks; and 
 ŁThe ERM division creates and maintains other functions, 
committees or processes as are necessary to effectivel
y oversee risk management throughout the Bancorp. 
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  58  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Risk management oversight and governance is provided by the 
Risk and Compliance Committee of 
the Board of Directors and 
through multiple management committees whose membership 

includes a broad cross-section of 
line-of-business, regional market 
and support representatives. Th
e Risk and Compliance Committee 
of the Board of Directors consists of five outside directors and has 

the responsibility for the oversight of risk management for the 

Bancorp, as well as for the Bancorp™s overall aggregate risk profile. 

The Risk and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors has 

approved the formation of key management governance committees 
that are responsible for evaluating
 risks and controls. The primary 
committee responsible for the oversight of risk management is the 
ERMC. Committees accountable to the ERMC, which support the 
core risk programs, are the Corporate Credit Committee, the 

Operational Risk Committee,
 the Management Compliance 
Committee, the Asset/Liability 
Committee and the Enterprise 
Marketing Committee. Other commi
ttees accountable to the ERMC 
oversee the ALLL, capital, model risk and regulatory change 
management functions. There are als
o new products and initiatives 
processes applicable to every line of business to ensure an 

appropriate standard readiness assessment is performed before 
launching a new product or initiative. Significant risk policies 
approved by the management governance committees are also 

reviewed and approved by the Risk and Compliance Committee of 

the Board of Directors. 
Credit Risk Review is an independent function responsible for 
evaluating the sufficiency of un
derwriting, documentation and approval processes for consumer and commercial credits, the 

accuracy of risk grades assigned
 to commercial credit exposure, 
nonaccrual status, specific reserves and monitoring for charge-offs. 
Credit Risk Review reports dir
ectly to the Risk and Compliance 
Committee of the Board of Directors and administratively to the 

Chief Auditor. 
CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT 

The objective of the Bancorp™s credit
 risk management strategy is to 
quantify and manage credit risk on an aggregate portfolio basis, as 
well as to limit the risk of loss resulting from the failure of a 
borrower or counterparty to hono
r its financial or contractual 
obligations to the Bancorp. The Bancorp's credit risk management 

strategy is based on three core principles: conservatism, 

diversification and monitoring. The Bancorp believes that effective 

credit risk management begins with conservative lending practices. 

These practices include conserva
tive exposure and counterparty 
limits and conservative underwri
ting, documentation and collection standards. The Bancorp's credit risk management strategy also 
emphasizes diversification on a geog
raphic, industry and customer 
level as well as ongoing portfolio monitoring and timely 

management reviews of large credit exposures and credits 

experiencing deterioration of credit
 quality. Credit officers with the 
authority to extend credit are de
legated specific authority amounts, 
the utilization of which is closely m
onitored. Underwriting activities 
are centrally managed, and ERM manages the policy and the 
authority delegation process directly. The Credit Risk Review 

function provides objective a
ssessments of the quality of 
underwriting and documentation, th
e accuracy of risk grades and 
the charge-off, nonaccrual and reserve analysis process. The 

Bancorp™s credit review process and overall assessment of the 

adequacy of the allowance for credit losses is based on quarterly 

assessments of the probable estimated losses inherent in the loan 

and lease portfolio. The Bancorp uses these assessments to 

promptly identify potential problem loans or leases within the 

portfolio, maintain an adequate reserve and take any necessary 
charge-offs. The Bancorp defines potential problem loans and leases 
as those rated substandard that do not meet the definition of a 

nonaccrual loan or a restructured loan. Refer to Note 6 of the Notes 

to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information on the 

Bancorp™s credit grade categories, which are derived from standard 

regulatory rating definitions.   
    The following tables provide a summary of potential pr
oblem portfolio loans and leases as of December 31: 
              TABLE 34: POTENTIAL PROBLEM PORTFOLIO LOANS AND LEASES
                   Unpaid  
       Carrying 
  Principal  
    2015 ($ in millions)
  Value   Balance  
 Exposure 
Commercial and industrial loans 
$ 1,383 
   1,384 
   1,922 
Commercial mortgage loans
   170 
   171 
   172 
Commercial construction loans
   6 
   6 
   7 
Commercial leases 
   36 
   36 
   39 
Total potential problem portfolio loans and leases
 $ 1,595 
   1,597 
   2,140 
      TABLE 35: POTENTIAL PROBLEM PORTFOLIO LOANS AND LEASES
                  Unpaid  
       Carrying 
  Principal  
    2014 ($ in millions) 
 Value    Balance  
 Exposure 
Commercial and industrial loans 
$ 1,022 
   1,028 
   1,344 
Commercial mortgage loans 
  272 
   273 
   273 
Commercial construction loans 
  7 
   7 
   11 
Commercial leases  
  29 
   29 
   29 
Total potential problem portfolio loans and leases 
$ 1,330 
   1,337 
   1,657 
             In addition to the individual review of larger commercial loans that 
exhibit probable or observed credit weaknesses, the commercial 

credit review process includes the use of two risk grading systems. 

The risk grading system currently utilized for reserve analysis 

purposes encompasses ten categories. The Bancorp also maintains a 

dual risk rating system for credit approval and pricing, portfolio 
monitoring and capital allocation th
at includes a ﬁthrough-the-cycleﬂ rating philosophy for modeling expected losses. The dual risk rating 

system includes thirteen probabilitie
s of default grade categories and 
an additional six grade categories for estimating losses given an 

event of default. The probability of default and loss given default 

evaluations are not separated in the 
ten-category risk rating system. 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  59  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The Bancorp has completed significant validation and testing of the 
dual risk rating system as a commercial credit risk management tool. 

The Bancorp is assessing the nece
ssary modifications to the dual 
risk rating system outputs to develop a U.S. GAAP compliant 

ALLL model and will make a decision on the use of modified dual 

risk ratings for purposes of determining the Bancorp™s ALLL once 
the FASB has issued a final standard regarding proposed 
methodology changes to the determination of credit impairment as 

outlined in the FASB™s Proposed ASU
ŒFinancial Inst
rumentsŒCredit 
Losses (Subtopic 825-15) issued on December 20, 2012. Scoring 
systems, various analytical tools and portfolio performance 

monitoring are used to assess the credit risk in the Bancorp™s 

homogenous consumer and small business loan portfolios. 
 Overview 
Economic growth continues to improve, and GDP is expected to 
maintain its modest expansionary pattern. The U.S. job market is 

slowly but steadily improving. Hous
ing prices have largely stabilized 
and are increasing in many markets. However, overall current 

economic and competitive conditions are causing weaker than 

desired qualified loan growth, that
 combined with a weakness in 
global economic conditions and a relatively low interest rate 
environment, may directly or indirectly impact the Bancorp™s growth 
and profitability.  Among consumer portfolios, residential mortgage and 
brokered home equity portfolios exhibited the most stress. As of 

December 31, 2015, consumer real estate loans originated from 

2005 through 2008 represent approximately 20% of the consumer 

real estate portfolio and approxim
ately 60% of total losses for the 
year ended December 31, 2015. Loss rates continue to improve as 
newer vintages are performing within expectations. Currently, the 
level of new commercial real estate fundings is slightly above the 

amortization and payoff of the portfolio with growth in the 

commercial construction portfolio as those markets have 

rebounded. The Bancorp continues to engage in loss mitigation 

strategies such as reducing credit commitments, restructuring certain 
commercial and consumer loans, as
 well as utilizing commercial and 
consumer loan workout teams. 
For commercial and consumer loans 
owned by the Bancorp, loan modification strategies are developed 
that are workable for both the borrower and the Bancorp when the 

borrower displays a willingness to cooperate. These strategies 

typically involve either a reduction of the stated interest rate of the 

loan, an extension of the loan™s ma
turity date with a stated rate 
lower than the current market rate 
for a new loan with similar risk, 
or in limited circumstances, a reduction of the principal balance of 

the loan or the loan™s accrued interest. For residential mortgage 
loans serviced for FHLMC and FNMA, the Bancorp participates in 
the HAMP and HARP 2.0 programs. For loans refinanced under 

the HARP 2.0 program, the Bancorp strictly adheres to the 

underwriting requirements of th
e program. Loan restructuring 
under the HAMP program is performed on behalf of FHLMC or 

FNMA and the Bancorp does not take possession of these loans 

during the modification process. Th
erefore, participation in these 
programs does not significantly impact the Bancorp™s credit quality 
statistics. The Bancorp participates in trial modifications in 
conjunction with the HAMP program for loans it services for 

FHLMC and FNMA. As these trial modifications relate to loans 

serviced for others, they are not included in the Bancorp™s TDRs as 

they are not assets of the Bancorp. In the event there is a 

representation and warranty violation on loans sold through the 

programs, the Bancorp may be required to repurchase the sold 

loans. As of December 31, 2015, repurchased loans restructured or 
refinanced under these programs were immaterial to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, as of December 
31, 2015 and 2014, $14 million and 
$22 million, respectively, of 
loans refinanced under HARP 2.0 were included in loans held for 

sale in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. For the years ended 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Bancorp recognized $6 million 

and $13 million, respectively, of noninterest income in mortgage 

banking net revenue in the Cons
olidated Statements of Income 
related to the sale of loans restructured or refinanced under the 
HAMP and HARP 2.0 programs. 
In the financial services industry, there has been heightened 
focus on foreclosure activity and processes. The Bancorp actively 

works with borrowers experiencing
 difficulties and has regularly 
modified or provided forbearance to borrowers where a workable 

solution could be found. Forecl
osure is a last resort, and the 
Bancorp undertakes foreclosures only when it believes they are 
necessary and appropriate and is careful to ensure that customer and 
loan data are accurate.  At December 31, 2015, the Bancorp™s non-power producing 
energy portfolio balance was $1.7 billion, representing 

approximately 2% of total loans an
d leases. This portfolio continues 
to be an important part of the Bancorp™s commercial business 

strategy. Due to the sensitivity of this portfolio to downward 

movements in oil prices, the Bancorp has seen migration in the 
portfolio into criticized cla
ssifications during 2015. When 
establishing the ALLL, all portfo
lio and general economic factors 
are considered, including the level of
 criticized assets and the level 
of commodity prices.  

 Commercial Portfolio  
The Bancorp™s credit risk managemen
t strategy includes minimizing 
concentrations of risk through 
diversification. The Bancorp has 
commercial loan concentration limit
s based on industry, lines of 
business within the commercial segment, geography and credit 

product type. 
The risk within the commercial 
loan and lease portfolio is 
managed and monitored through an underwriting process utilizing 

detailed origination policies, continuous loan level reviews, 

monitoring of industry concentration and product type limits and 

continuous portfolio risk management reporting. The origination 
policies for commercial real estate outline the risks and underwriting 
requirements for owner and nonowner-occupied and construction 

lending. Included in the policies are maturity and amortization 

terms, maximum LTVs, minimum de
bt service coverage ratios, 
construction loan monitoring procedures, appraisal requirements, 

pre-leasing requirements (as applic
able), sensitivity and pro-forma 
analysis requirements and interest 
rate sensitivity. The Bancorp 
requires a valuation of real estate collateral, which may include third-
party appraisals, be performed at the time of origination and 
renewal in accordance with regulatory requirements and on an as 

needed basis when market conditi
ons justify. Although the Bancorp 
does not back test these collateral value assumptions, the Bancorp 

maintains an appraisal review depa
rtment to order and review third-
party appraisals in accordance with regulatory requirements. 

Collateral values on criticized assets with relationships exceeding $1 

million are reviewed quarterly to assess the appropriateness of the 
value ascribed in the assessment of charge-offs and specific reserves. 
In addition, the Bancorp applies 
incremental valuation adjustments 
to older appraisals that relate to
 collateral dependent loans, which 
can currently be up to 20-30% of the appraised value based on the 

type of collateral. These increment
al valuation adjustments generally 
reflect the age of the most recent a
ppraisal as well as collateral type. 
Trends in collateral values, such 
as home price indices and recent 
asset dispositions, are monitored in order to determine whether 
changes to the appraisal adjustments are warranted. Other factors 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  60  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 such as local market conditions or location may also be considered 
as necessary. 
The Bancorp assesses all real estate and non-real estate 
collateral securing a loan and cons
iders all cross-collateralized loans 
in the calculation of the LTV rati
o. The following tables provide 
detail on the most recent LTV ratios for commercial mortgage loans 
greater than $1 million, excluding impaired commercial mortgage 

loans individually evaluated. The Bancorp does not typically 

aggregate the LTV ratios for commercial mortgage loans less than 
$1 million.     TABLE 36: COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE LOANS OUTSTANDING BY LTV, LOANS GREATER THAN $1 MILLION
 As of December 31, 2015 ($ in millions) 
  LTV > 100% 
LTV 80-100%
LTV < 80% 
Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans 
$119   216 
  2,063 
  Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans 
120   194   2,032 
  Total  
$239 
  410 
  4,095 
        TABLE 37: COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE LOANS OUTSTANDING BY LTV, LOANS GREATER THAN $1 MILLION
 As of December 31, 2014
 ($ in millions)
   LTV > 100% 
LTV 80-100%
LTV < 80% 
Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans 
$148 
  248 
  1,982 
  Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans 
243 
  333 
  2,423 
  Total  
$391 
  581 
  4,405 
        MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  61  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following table provides detail on commerc
ial loan and leases by industry classifi
cation (as defined by the North American 
IndustryClassification System), by loan size and by
 state, illustrating the diversity and gr
anularity of the Bancorp™s commercial loans and leases:                                  TABLE 38: COMMERCIAL LOAN AND LEASE PORTFOLIO (EXCLUDING LOANS HELD FOR SALE)
                 2015 
  2014  
As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
  Outstanding
  Exposure 
Nonaccrual 
 Outstanding 
  Exposure 
Nonaccrual 
By Industry: 
                           Manufacturing 
$ 10,572 
    20,422 
  70 
  10,315 
     20,496 
  55 
   Real estate 
   6,494 
    10,293 
  40 
   5,392 
     8,612 
  32 
   Financial services and insurance 
   5,896 
    13,021 
  3 
  6,097 
     13,557 
  20 
   Healthcare 
   4,676 
    6,879 
  22 
  4,133 
     6,322 
  20 
   Business services 
   4,471 
    6,765 
  96 
  4,644 
     7,109 
  79 
   Wholesale trade 
   4,082 
    7,254 
  23 
  4,314 
     8,004 
  62 
   Retail trade 
   3,764 
    7,391 
  8 
  3,754 
     7,190 
  22 
   Transportation and warehousing 
   3,111 
    4,619 
  1 
  3,012 
     4,276 
  1 
   Communication and information 
   2,913 
    5,052 
  2 
  2,409 
     4,140 
  3 
   Accommodation and food 
   2,507 
    4,104 
  6 
  1,712 
     2,945 
  9 
   Construction 
   1,871 
    3,403 
  8 
  1,864 
     3,352 
  25 
   Mining 
   1,499 
    2,695 
  36 
 1,862 
     3,323 
  3 
   Utilities 
   1,217 
    2,854 
  - 
 1,044 
     2,551 
  - 
   Entertainment and recreation    1,210 
    2,066 
  4 
  1,451 
     2,321 
  10 
   Other services 
   864 
    1,188 
  10 
  881 
     1,207 
  11 
   Public administration  
   495 
    562 
  - 
  567 
     658 
  - 
   Agribusiness 
   368 
    527 
  4 
  318 
     444 
  11 
   Individuals 
   139 
    187 
  2 
  170 
     201 
  4 
   Other    7 
    6 
  6 
  14 
     17 
  - 
 Total 
$ 56,156 
    99,288 
  341 
   53,953 
     96,725 
  367 
 By Loan Size: 
                           Less than $200,000 
   1 
%   1 
  7 
  1 
     1 
  6 
   $200,000 to $1 million 
   4 
    3 
  10 
  5 
     3 
  15 
   $1 million to $5 million 
   10 
    8 
  25 
  11 
     9 
  22 
   $5 million to $10 million 
   8 
    7 
  25 
  8 
     7 
  19 
   $10 million to $25 million 
   24 
    21 
  15 
  25 
     22 
  24 
   Greater than $25 million 
   53 
    60 
  18 
  50 
     58 
  14 
 Total 
   100 
%   100 
  100 
  100 
     100 
  100 
 By State: 
                           Ohio    16 
%   17 
  8 
  17 
     20 
  11 
   Michigan 
   8 
    7 
  9 
  9 
     8 
  11 
   Florida 
   8 
    7 
  12 
  7 
     6 
  17 
   Illinois 
   7 
    8 
  20 
  7 
     8 
  6 
   Indiana 
   5 
    5 
  4 
  5 
     5 
  5 
   North Carolina 
   4 
    4 
  1 
  3 
     4 
  2 
   Tennessee    3 
    3 
  - 
  3 
     3 
  - 
   Kentucky 
   3 
    3 
  1 
  3 
     3 
  2 
   Pennsylvania 
   3 
    3 
  2 
  3 
     2 
  7 
   All other states 
   43 
    43 
  43 
  43 
     41 
  39 
 Total 
   100 
%   100 
  100 
  100 
     100 
  100 
                                MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  62  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The Bancorp has identified certain categories of loans which it 
believes represent a higher level of risk compared to the rest of the 
Bancorp™s commercial loan portfolio, due to economic or market 
conditions within the Bancorp™s key lending areas.  
 The following tables provide an analysis 
of nonowner-occupied commercial real estate loans (excluding loans held for sale):         TABLE 39: NONOWNER-OCCUPIED
 COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE
(a)
                             For the Year Ended 
December 31, 2015
      90 Days
 Net Charge-offs (Recoveries) 
 As of December 31, 2015 ($ in millions)
 Outstanding
 Exposure 
Past Due 
Nonaccrual 
By State: 
                      Ohio $1,334 
  1,594   - 
   7 
   (2)
  Florida 
 687 
  1,041   - 
   9 
   2 
  Illinois 
 650 
  1,028   - 
   2 
   - 
  Michigan 
 598 
  722
   - 
   13 
   7 
  North Carolina 
 375 
  669
   - 
   - 
   (1)
  Indiana 
 294 
  521   - 
   - 
   - 
  All other states 
 2,467 
  4,383
   - 
   4 
   11 
Total   $6,405 
  9,958
   - 
   35 
   17 
(a) Included in commercial mortgage loans and commercial constructi
on loans in the Loans and Leases 
subsection of the Balance Sheet
 Analysis section of MD&A. 
                   TABLE 40: NONOWNER-OCCUPIED
 COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE
(a)
                                     For the Year Ended  
December 31, 2014
      90 Days
 Net Charge-offs (Recoveries)   As of December 31, 2014 ($ in millions) 
 Outstanding
   Exposure
 Past Due 
Nonaccrual 
By State: 
                      Ohio $ 1,283 
 1,685
 - 
 7 
 (1)
  Florida 
  575 
 871
 - 
 16 
 5 
  Illinois 
  449 
 964
 - 
 6 
 2 
  Michigan 
  724 
 797
 - 
 9 
 8 
  North Carolina 
  369 
 537
 - 
 - 
 - 
  Indiana 
  250 
 344
 - 
 - 
 - 
  All other states 
  1,865 
 3,560
 - 
 19 
 4 
Total 
  $ 5,515 
 8,758
   - 
 57 
 18 
(a) Included in commercial mortgage loans and commercial constructi
on loans in the Loans and Leases 
subsection of the Balance Sheet
 Analysis section of MD&A. 
 Consumer Portfolio
 The Bancorp™s consumer portfolio 
is materially comprised of three 
categories of loans: residential mortgage, home equity and 

automobile. The Bancorp has identi
fied certain categories within 
these loan types which it believes represent a higher level of risk 
compared to the rest of the consumer loan portfolio due to high 
loan amount to collateral value.  
The Bancorp does not update LTV 
ratios for the consumer portfolio subsequent to origination except 

as part of the charge-off process 
for real estate secured loans.   
 
Residential Mortgage Portfolio 
The Bancorp manages credit risk in the residential mortgage 

portfolio through conservative underwriting and documentation 
standards and geographic and product diversification. The Bancorp 
may also package and sell loans in the portfolio. 
The Bancorp does not originate mortgage loans that permit 
customers to defer principal payments or make payments that are 
less than the accruing interest. The Bancorp originates both fixed 
and ARM loans. Resets of rates on ARMs are not expected to have 

a material impact on credit costs in the current interest rate 

environment, as approximately $
846 million of ARM loans will have 
rate resets during the next twelve months. Of those resets, 89% are 
expected to experience an increase in rate, with an average increase 
of approximately one third of a percent. 
Certain residential mortgage products have contractual features 
that may increase credit exposure to the Bancorp in the event of a 

decline in housing values. These types of mortgage products offered 

by the Bancorp include loans with 
high LTV ratios, multiple loans 
on the same collateral that when comb
ined result in a LTV greater 
than 80% and interest-only loans. The Bancorp has deemed 
residential mortgage loans with greater than 80% LTV ratios and no 
mortgage insurance as loans that represent a higher level of risk.            MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  63  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following table provides an analysis of the residential mort
gage portfolio loans outstanding by LTV at origination:  
                        TABLE 41: RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PORT
FOLIO LOANS BY LTV AT ORIGINATION
    2015 
     2014  
       Weighted-
Average LTV 
        Weighted-
Average LTV
 As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
 Outstanding 
     Outstanding  
LTV  80% 
$ 10,198 
   65.6 
%   $  9,220 
   65.1 
%LTV > 80%, with mortgage insurance 
  1,300 
   93.3 
       1,206 
   93.8 
 LTV > 80%, no mortgage insurance 
  2,218 
   96.0 
       1,963 
   96.2 
 Total  
$ 13,716 
   73.4 
%   $  12,389 
   73.0 
%          The following tables provide an analysis of the residential mortga
ge portfolio loans outstanding with a greater than 80% LTV ra
tio and no mortgage insurance:           TABLE 42: RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PORTFOLIO LOANS, LTV GREATER THAN 80%, NO MORTGAGE INSURANCE
                 For the Year Ended 
December 31, 2015
     90 Days 
    As of December 31, 2015 ($ in millions)
  Outstanding
 Past Due 
Nonaccrual
Net Charge-offs 
By State: 
                 Ohio  $ 517
 2 
 4 
 3 
  Illinois
   375
 - 
 1 
 1 
    Michigan
   280
 1 
 1 
 2 
  Florida
   278
 1 
 4 
 - 
  Indiana   137
 1 
 1 
 - 
  North Carolina
   108
 - 
 1 
 - 
  Kentucky   84
 1 
 - 
 - 
  All other states
   439
 - 
 1 
 - 
Total $ 2,218
 6 
 13 
 6 
           TABLE 43: RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PORTFOLIO LOANS, LTV GREATER THAN 80%, NO MORTGAGE INSURANCE
                    For the Year Ended 
December 31, 2014
         90 Days 
   Net Charge-offs 
As of December 31, 2014
 ($ in millions) 
 Outstanding 
Past Due 
Nonaccrual
By State: 
                Ohio  $ 509
 1 
 10 
 22 
  Illinois
   293
 1 
 4 
 3 
  Michigan
   265
 1 
 5 
 11 
  Florida
   247
 1 
 5 
 3 
  Indiana   126
 1 
 2 
 3 
  North Carolina
   100
 1 
 1 
 - 
  Kentucky   78
 - 
 1 
 2 
  All other states
   345
 - 
 2 
 2 
Total $ 1,963
 6 
 30 
 46 
(a)
(a) Includes $34 in charge-offs related to the transfer of $720 restru
ctured residential mortgage loans from the portfolio to loans
 held for sale during the fourth quarter of 2014.
 Home Equity Portfolio The Bancorp™s home equity portfolio is primarily comprised of 

home equity lines of credit. Beginning in the first quarter of 2013, 

the Bancorp™s newly originated home equity lines of credit have a 

10-year interest only draw period 
followed by a 20-year amortization 
period. The home equity line of credit previously offered by the 
Bancorp was a revolving facility with a 20-year term, minimum 
payments of interest only and a balloon payment of principal at 

maturity.  The ALLL provides coverage for probable and estimable losses 
in the home equity portfolio. Th
e allowance attributable to the 
portion of the home equity portfolio that has not been restructured 

in a TDR is calculated on a pooled basis with senior lien and junior 

lien categories segmented in the 
determination of the probable 
credit losses in the home equity portfolio. The modeled loss factor 
for the home equity portfolio is based on the trailing twelve month 
historical loss rate for each category, as adjusted for certain 

prescriptive loss rate factors and certain qualitative adjustment 

factors to reflect risks associated 
with current conditions and trends. 
The prescriptive loss rate factors include adjustments for 

delinquency trends, LTV trends and refreshed FICO score trends. 
The qualitative factors include adju
stments for credit administration 
and portfolio management, credit 
policy and underwriting and the 
national and local economy. The Bancorp considers home price 

index trends when determining the national and local economy 

qualitative factor. 
The home equity portfolio is managed in two primary groups: 
loans outstanding with a combin
ed LTV greater than 80% and 
those loans with a LTV 80% or less based upon appraisals at 
origination. The carrying value of the greater than 80% LTV home 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  64  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 equity loans and 80% or less LTV home equity loans were $2.7 
billion and $5.6 billion, respectiv
ely, as of December 31, 2015. Of 
the total $8.3 billion of outstanding home equity loans:  
 85% reside within the Bancorp™s Midwest footprint of 
Ohio, Michigan, Kentucky, Indiana and Illinois as of 
December 31, 2015; 
 35% are in senior lien positions and 65% are in junior lien 
positions at December 31, 2015;  Over 80% of non-delinquent borrowers made at least one 
payment greater than the minimum payment during the 
year ended December 31, 2015; and 
 The portfolio had an average refreshed
 FICO score of 742 
and 740 at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.   
 The Bancorp actively manages lines of credit and makes 
reductions in lending limits when it believes it is necessary based on 

FICO score deterioration and property devaluation.  The Bancorp 

does not routinely obtain appraisals on performing loans to update 
LTV ratios after origination. However, the Bancorp monitors the 
local housing markets by reviewin
g various home price indices and 
incorporates the impact of the changing market conditions in its on-

going credit monitoring processes. For junior lien home equity loans 
which become 60 days or more past due, the Bancorp tracks the 
performance of the senior lien loans in which the Bancorp is the 

servicer and utilizes consumer cred
it bureau attributes to monitor 
the status of the senior lien loans that the Bancorp does not service. 

If the senior lien loan is found to 
be 120 days or more past due, the 
junior lien home equity loan is 
placed on nonaccrual status unless 
both loans are well-secured and in the process of collection. 

Additionally, if the junior lien home equity loan becomes 120 days 
or more past due and the senior 
lien loan is also 120 days or more 
past due, the junior lien home equity
 loan is assessed for charge-off, 
unless it is well-secured and in the 
process of collection. Refer to the 
Analysis of Nonperforming Assets subsection of the Risk 

Management section of MD&A for more information. 
The following table provides an analysis of home equity portfolio
 loans outstanding disaggregated based upon refreshed FICO sco
re as of: 
 TABLE 44: HOME EQUITY PORTFOLIO LOANS OUTSTANDING BY REFRESHED FICO SCORE
      December 31, 2015
% of December 31, 2014
% of  
($ in millions) 
  Total 
 Total Senior Liens: 
                 FICO < 620 
  $  159 
 2 
% $ 178 
 2 
%FICO 621-719 
     563 
 7 
     613 
 7 
  FICO > 720  
     2,210 
 26 
     2,257 
 25 
          Total senior liens  
  2,932 
 35 
     3,048 
 34 
 Junior Liens: 
              FICO < 620 
     389 
 5 
     471 
 6 
  FICO 621-719 
     1,399 
 17 
 1,542 
 17 
  FICO > 720  
     3,581 
 43 
     3,825 
 43 
         Total junior liens  
   5,369 
 65 
     5,838 
 66 
  Total  
$  8,301 
 100 
% $ 8,886 
 100 
%      MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  65  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The Bancorp believes that home equity portfolio loans with a grea
ter than 80% combined LTV ratio 
present a higher level of risk
. The following table provides an analysis of the home equity portfolio loans outstanding in a senior and junior lien position by LTV at origin
ation:                         TABLE 45: HOME EQUITY PORTFOLIO LOANS OUTSTANDING BY LTV AT ORIGINATION
                2015 
     2014 
        Weighted-
Average LTV
         Weighted-
Average LTV
 As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
 Outstanding 
       Outstanding 
 Senior Liens: 
                   LTV  80% 
$ 2,557 
  55.1 
%   $ 2,635 
  55.2
%LTV > 80% 
  375 
  89.1 
       413 
  89.1
     Total senior liens  
  2,932 
  59.7 
       3,048 
  60.0
 Junior Liens:
                   LTV  80% 
  3,088 
   67.6 
       3,281 
   67.4
 LTV > 80% 
  2,281 
   90.9 
       2,557 
   91.1
     Total junior liens  
  5,369 
   79.2 
       5,838 
  79.6
 Total  
$ 8,301 
   71.8 
%   $ 8,886 
  72.4
%          The following tables provide an analysis of home equity portf
olio loans by state with a combined LTV greater than 80%:
              TABLE 46: HOME EQUITY PORTFOLIO LOANS OUTSTANDING WITH A LTV GREATER THAN 80%
                            For the Year Ended 
December 31, 2015 
     90 Days 
  As of December 31, 2015 ($ in millions)
  Outstanding
Exposure 
Past Due 
Nonaccrual
Net Charge-offs 
By State: 
                    Ohio $ 1,081
 1,830
 - 
 10 
 6 
  Michigan
   519
 773
 - 
 5 
 5 
  Illinois
   305
 457
 - 
 3 
 3 
  Indiana   220
 352
 - 
 3 
 3 
  Kentucky   208
 344
 - 
 2 
 1 
  Florida
   95
 129
 - 
 2 
 1 
  All other states
   228
 320
 - 
 5 
 2 
Total $ 2,656
 4,205
 - 
 30 
 21 
 TABLE 47: HOME EQUITY PORTFOLIO LOANS OUTSTANDING WITH A LTV GREATER THAN 80%
                            For the Year Ended 
December 31, 2014 
           90 Days 
   Net Charge-offs 
As of December 31, 2014
 ($ in millions) 
 Outstanding 
Exposure 
Past Due 
Nonaccrual
By State: 
                    Ohio $ 1,123
 1,838
 - 
 9 
 9 
  Michigan
   613
 882
 - 
 7 
 8 
  Illinois
   346
 507
 - 
 6 
 6 
  Indiana   260
 404
 - 
 4 
 3 
  Kentucky   246
 390
 - 
 3 
 3 
  Florida
   107
 143
 - 
 2 
 2 
  All other states
   275
 376
 - 
 5 
 4 
Total 
$ 2,970
 4,540
 - 
 36 
 35 
       MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  66  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Automobile Portfolio The automobile portfolio is charac
terized by direct and indirect 
lending products to consumers. As of December 31, 2015, 50% of 

the automobile loan portfolio is 
comprised of loans collateralized by 
new automobiles. It is a common practice to advance on automobile 
loans an amount in excess of the automobile value due to the 

inclusion of taxes, title and other fees paid at closing. The Bancorp 

monitors its exposure to these higher risk loans.  
        The following table provides an analysis of automobile 
portfolio loans outstanding by LTV at origination:                          TABLE 48: AUTOMOBILE PORTFOLIO LOANS OUTSTANDING BY LTV AT ORIGINATION
                2015 
     2014 
        Weighted-
Average LTV 
         Weighted-
Average LTV
 As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
 Outstanding 
       Outstanding 
  LTV  100% 
$ 7,740 
   81.7 
%   $  8,212 
  81.6 
%LTV > 100% 
  3,753 
   111.3 
       3,825 
  111.0 
 Total  
$ 11,493 
   91.7 
%   $  12,037 
  91.3 
%          The following table provides an analysis of the Bancorp™s autom
obile portfolio loans with a LTV at origination greater than 100
%:      TABLE 49: AUTOMOBILE PORTFOLIO LOANS OUTSTANDING WITH A LTV GREATER THAN 100% 
          90 Days Past 
      Net Charge-offs for the
As of ($ in millions) 
  Outstanding
   Due and Accruing
  Nonaccrual 
  Year Ended 
December 31, 2015
 $  3,753 
 5 
 1 
 20 
December 31, 2014
    3,825 
 5 
 1 
 16 
    European Exposure  
The Bancorp has no direct sovereign exposure to any European 
government as of December 31, 2015. In providing services to our 

customers, the Bancorp routinely en
ters into financial transactions 
with foreign domiciled and U.S. su
bsidiaries of foreign businesses as 
well as foreign financial institutions
. These financial transactions are 
in the form of loans, loan commitments, letters of credit, 
derivatives, guarantees, bankers 
acceptances and securities. The 
Bancorp™s risk appetite for foreign country exposure is managed by 
having established country exposure limits. The Bancorp™s total 

exposure to European domiciled or owned businesses and 

European financial institutions was $3.7 billion and funded 

exposure was $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2015.  Additionally, 

the Bancorp was within its estab
lished country exposure limits for 
all European countries.  
 The following table provides detail about 
the Bancorp™s exposure to all European domi
ciled and owned businesses and financial i
nstitutions as o
f December 31, 2015:
                                TABLE 50: EUROPEAN EXPOSURE
                       Sovereigns 
  Financial Institutions 
 Non-Financial 
Institutions  
  Total  
     Total 
  Funded 
  Total 
  Funded 
  Total 
  Funded 
   Total 
  Funded 
 ($ in millions) 
    Exposure
(a)Exposure
  Exposure
(a)Exposure
  Exposure
(a) Exposure
   Exposure
(a)Exposure
 Peripheral Europe
(b) $ - 
 -  270 
 228
  43 
 24 
   313 
 252
Other Eurozone
(c) 
  - 
 -  294 
 133
  1,850 
 994 
   2,144 
 1,127
      Total Eurozone 
  $ - 
 -  564 
 361
  1,893 
 1,018 
   2,457 
 1,379
Other Europe
(d)   - 
 -  145 
 92
  1,058 
 417 
   1,203 
 509
       Total Europe 
  $ - 
 -  709 
 453
  2,951 
 1,435 
   3,660 
 1,888
(a) Total exposure includes funded exposure and unfunded commitments.  
(b) Peripheral Europe includes Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain.  
(c) Eurozone includes countries participating in the European common currency (Euro).  
(d) Other Europe includes European countries not part of the 
Eurozone (primarily the Unit
ed Kingdom and Switzerland). 
Analysis of Nonperforming Assets 
Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans and leases for 
which ultimate collectability of the full amount of the principal 

and/or interest is uncertain; restru
ctured commercial and credit card 
loans which have not yet met the requirements to be classified as a 

performing asset; restructured consumer loans which are 90 days 

past due based on the restructured terms unless the loan is both 

well-secured and in the process of collection; and certain other 

assets, including OREO and other repossessed property. A 
summary of nonperforming assets is included in Table 51. For 
further information on the Bancorp™s policies related to accounting 

for delinquent and nonperforming loans and leases refer to the 

Nonaccrual Loans and Leases section of Note 1 of the Notes to 

Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Nonperforming assets were $659 million at December 31 2015 
compared to $783 million at D
ecember 31, 2014. At December 31, 
2015, $12 million of nonaccrual loans 
were held for sale, compared 
to $39 million at December 31, 2014. The decrease in nonaccrual 

loans held for sale from December 31, 2014 was primarily due to 

the sale in 2015 of $10 million of held for sale residential mortgage 

loans classified as TDRs. The remaining decrease was due to 

paydowns and additional sales of nonaccrual loans held for sale. 
Nonperforming assets as a percentage of total loans and leases 
and OREO, as of December 31, 2015 were 0.70%, compared to 
0.86% as of December 31, 2014. Nonperforming portfolio assets as 

a percent of portfolio loans and le
ases and OREO were 0.70% as of 
December 31, 2015, compared to 0.82% as of December 31, 2014. 

Nonaccrual loans and leases secured by real estate were 43% of total 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  67  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 nonaccrual loans and leases as of
 December 31, 2015 compared to 
50% as of December 31, 2014.  
Commercial portfolio nonaccrual loans and leases were $341 
million at December 31, 2015, a decrease of $26 million from 

December 31, 2014 as charge-offs, lo
an paydowns/payoffs, loan 
transfers to OREO and loans sold outpaced new nonaccruals.  
Consumer portfolio nonaccrual loans and leases were $165 
million at December 31, 2015, a decrease of $47 million from 

December 31, 2014. The decrease was 
primarily due to charge-offs, 
loan paydowns/payoffs and transf
ers to accrual status and OREO 
which outpaced new nonaccrual loans. Geographical market 

conditions continue to be a large driver of nonaccrual activity as 

Florida properties represent approximately 11% of residential 

mortgage balances, but represent 27% of nonaccrual loans at 
December 31, 2015. Refer to Table 52 for a rollforward of the 
nonaccrual loans and leases. 
OREO and other repossessed property was $141 million at 
December 31, 2015, compared to 
$165 million at December 31, 
2014. The Bancorp recognized $24 m
illion and $26 million in losses 
on the sale or write-down of OREO properties during the years 

ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The decrease 

from the prior year was primaril
y due to a modest improvement in 
general economic conditions.  
During the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, 
approximately $35 million and $49 mi
llion, respectively, of interest 
income would have been recognized if the nonaccrual and 

renegotiated loans and leases on nonaccrual status had been current 

in accordance with their original te
rms. Although these values help 
demonstrate the costs of carrying nonaccrual credits, the Bancorp 

does not expect to recover the full amount of interest as nonaccrual 
loans and leases are generally carr
ied below their principal balance. 
                                   TABLE 51: SUMMARY OF NONPERFORMING ASSETS AND DELINQUENT LOANS
                   As of December 31 ($ in millions)
    2015 
  2014  
 2013  
  2012  
 2011  
Nonaccrual portfolio loans and leases:
                                  Commercial and industrial loans
  $82 
   86   127 
    234
   408 
    Commercial mortgage loans
    56 
   64   90 
    215
   358 
    Commercial construction loans
    -    -   10 
    70   123 
    Commercial leases
    -    3   3     1   9     Residential mortgage loans
    28 
   44   83 
    114
   134 
    Home equity     62 
   72   74 
    30   25 
    Other consumer loans and leases
    -    -   -     1   1   Nonaccrual portfolio restructured loans and leases:
                                  Commercial and industrial loans 
    177    142
   154 
    96   79 
    Commercial mortgage loans
(c)
   25 
   71   53 
    67   63 
    Commercial construction loans
    -    -   19 
    6   15 
    Commercial leases
    1    1   2     8   3     Residential mortgage loans
    23 
   33   83 
    123
   141 
    Home equity    17    21   19 
    23   29 
    Automobile loans
    2    1   1     2   2     Credit card    33 
   41   33 
    39   48 
  Total nonaccrual portfolio loans and leases
(b)   506 
   579
   751 
    1,029
   1,438 
  OREO and other repossessed property
(d)   141    165
   229 
    257
   378 
  Total nonperforming portfolio assets
    647 
   744
   980 
    1,286
   1,816 
  Nonaccrual loans held for sale
    1    24   6     25   131 
  Nonaccrual restructured loans held for sale
    11    15   -     4   7   Total nonperforming assets
  $659 
   783
   986 
    1,315
   1,954 
  Loans and leases 90 days past due and accruing:
                                  Commercial and industrial loans
  $ 7 
    -    - 
     1    4 
    Commercial mortgage loans
     - 
    -    - 
     22
    3 
    Commercial construction loans
     - 
    -    - 
     1    1 
    Residential mortgage loans
(a)    40 
    56
    66 
     75
    79 
    Home equity     - 
    -    - 
     58
    74 
    Automobile loans
     10 
    8    8 
     8    9 
    Credit card     18 
    23
    29 
     30
    30 
  Total loans and leases 90 days past due and accruing
  $ 75 
    87
    103 
     195
    200 
  Nonperforming portfolio assets as a 
percent of portfolio loans and leases
                                and OREO
     0.70 
%  0.82
    1.10 
     1.49
    2.23 
  ALLL as a percent of nonperforming portfolio assets
     197 
    178
    161 
     144
    124 
  (a) Information for all periods presented exclud
es loans whose repayments are insured by th
e FHA or guaranteed by the VA. These loa
ns were 
$335
, $373, $378, $414 and $309 as of 
December 
31, 2015
, 2014, 2013, 2012, and 20
11, respectively. The Bancorp recognized losses of 
$8, $13, $5, $2 and immaterial for the years ended 
December 31, 2015
, 2014, 2013, 2012 and 
2011, respectively, due to claim denials and cu
rtailments associated with these advances.  
(b) Includes $6, $9, $10, $10 and $17 of nonaccrual go
vernment insured commercial loans who
se repayments are insured by the SBA at 
December 31, 2015
, 2014, 2013, 2012 and 2011, 
respectively, and 
$2, 
$4, $2, $1, and $2 of restructured nonaccrual government insured commercial loans at 
December 31, 2015
, 2014, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively.
 (c) Excludes $20 
of restructured nonaccrual loans at 
December 31, 2015
 and $21 at both December 31, 2014 and 2013 associated
 with a consolidated VIE in which the Bancorp has no 
continuing credit risk due to the ri
sk being assumed by a third party. 
(d) Excludes $14
, $71, $77, $72 and $64 of OREO related to government insured loans at 
December 31, 2015
, 2014, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Bancorp has historically 
excluded government guaranteed loans classi
fied in OREO from its nonperforming asset 
disclosures. Upon the prospective adoption
 on January 1, 2015 of ASU 2014-14, ﬁClassification of Certain 
Government-Guaranteed Mortgage Loans Upon Foreclosure,ﬂ governme
nt guaranteed loans meeting certain criteria will be reclassifi
ed to other receivables rather than OREO upon foreclosure. As of 
December 31, 2015
, the Bancorp had 
$44
 of government guaranteed loans classified as other receivables. 
Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Stateme
nts for further 
information on the adoption of this amended guidance. 
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  68  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following table provides a rollforward of portfo
lio nonaccrual loans and leases, by portfolio segment: 
                      TABLE 52: ROLLFORWARD OF PORTFOLIO NONACCRUAL LOANS AND LEASES
                     Residential         For the year ended December 31, 2015 ($ in millions)
  Commercial 
Mortgage 
Consumer  
 Total  
Balance, beginning of period 
$ 367 
  77 
   135 
 579 
    Transfers to nonaccrual 
  515 
  65 
   155 
 735 
    Transfers to accrual status 
  (9)
  (39)
   (68)
 (116)
    Transfers from held for sale  
  - 
  5 
 - 
 5 
    Transfers to held for sale 
  (12)
  - 
   (1)
 (13)
    Loans sold from portfolio 
  (11)
  - 
   - 
 (11)
    Loan paydowns/payoffs 
  (189)
  (15)
   (28)
 (232)
    Transfers to OREO 
  (32)
  (29)
   (18)
 (79)
    Charge-offs 
  (298)
  (13)
   (61)
 (372)
    Draws/other extensions of credit 
  10 
  - 
   - 
 10 
  Balance, end of period
 $ 341 
  51 
   114 
 506 
  For the year ended December 31
, 2014 ($ in millions) 
                Balance, beginning of period 
$ 458 
  166 
   127 
 751 
    Transfers to nonaccrual 
  520 
  135 
   219 
     874 
    Transfers to accrual status 
  (71)
  (79)
   (88)
     (238)
    Transfers to held for sale 
  (4)
  (24)
   - 
     (28)
    Loans sold from portfolio 
  (43)
  - 
   - 
     (43)
    Loan paydowns/payoffs 
  (181)
  (41)
   (9)
     (231)
    Transfers to OREO 
  (41)
  (67)
   (22)
     (130)
    Charge-offs 
  (279)
  (13)
   (92)
     (384)
    Draws/other extensions of credit 
  8 
  - 
   - 
     8 
  Balance, end of period 
$ 367 
  77 
   135 
 579 
                        Troubled Debt Restructurings
 If a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty, the Bancorp may 

consider, in certain circumstances, modifying the terms of their loan 

to maximize collection of amounts due. Typically, these 

modifications reduce the loan interest rate, extend the loan term, 

reduce the accrued interest or in limited circumstances, reduce the 

principal balance of the loan. Thes
e modifications are classified as 
TDRs. At the time of modification, the Bancorp maintains certain 
consumer loan TDRs (including residential mortgage loans, home 

equity loans, and other consumer loans) on accrual status, provided 

there is reasonable assurance of repayment and performance 

according to the modified terms based upon a current, well-

documented credit evaluation. Co
mmercial loans modified as part 
of a TDR are maintained on accrual status provided there is a 
sustained payment history of six months or greater prior to the 

modification in accordance with
 the modified terms and all 
remaining contractual payments under the modified terms are 

reasonably assured of collection. TDRs of commercial loans and 

credit card loans that do not have a sustained payment history of six 

months or greater in accordance with the modified terms remain on 
nonaccrual status until a six month payment history is sustained.  
Consumer restructured loans on accrual status totaled $979 
million and $905 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, 

respectively. As of December 31, 2015, the percentage of 

restructured residential mortgage loans, home equity loans, and 

credit card loans that are past due 30 days or more were 30%, 11% 

and 31%, respectively.  The following tables summarize TDRs 
by loan type and delinquency status:
                           TABLE 53: ACCRUING AND NONACCRUING PORTFOLIO TDRs
      Accruing                  30-89 Days 
 90 Days or 
       As of December 31, 2015 ($ in millions)
    Current
 Past Due 
More Past Due 
Nonaccruing 
 Total  
Commercial loans
(b)(c)
 $ 487 
  4   - 
  203 
    694
 Residential mortgage loans
(a)    443 
 54   110 
  23 
    630
 Home equity     307 
 20   - 
  17     344
 Automobile loans
     17 
 -   - 
  2     19
 Credit card     24 
  4   - 
  33 
    61 Total  $ 1,278 
 82   110 
  278 
    1,748
 (a) Information includes advances made pursuant to servicing agreements
 for GNMA mortgage pools whose repayments are insured by the
 FHA or guaranteed by the VA. As of 
December 31, 
2015
, these advances represented 
$202 
of current loans, 
$42 
of 30-89 days past due loans and 
$99
 of 90 days or more past due loans. 
 (b) As of 
December 31, 2015
, excludes $7 of restructured accruing loans and 
$20
 of restructured nonaccrual loans associated with a consol
idated VIE in which the Bancor
p has no continuing credit 
risk due to the risk being assumed by a third party. 
(c) Excludes restructured nonaccrual loans held for sale.  
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  69  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 54: ACCRUING AND NONACCRUING PORTFOLIO TDRs
      Accruing                  30-89 Days 
 90 Days or 
       As of December 31, 2014
 ($ in millions)
    Current
 Past Due 
More Past Due 
Nonaccruing 
 Total  
Commercial loans
(b)
 $  867 
  2   - 
  214 
    1,083
 Residential mortgage loans
(a)(c)
    312 
 54   119 
  33 
    518
 Home equity     337 
 23   - 
  21 
    381
 Automobile loans
     22 
 1   - 
  1     24
 Credit card     31 
  6   - 
  41 
    78
 Total  $  1,569 
 86   119 
  310 
    2,084
 (a) Information includes advances made pursuant to servicing agreements
 for GNMA mortgage pools whose repayments are insured by the
 FHA or guaranteed by the VA
. As of December 31, 2014, 
these advances represented $165 of current lo
ans, $42 of 30-89 days past due loans and $102 of 90 days or more past due loans. 
 (b) As of December 31, 2014, excludes $7 of restructured accruing 
loans and $21 of restructured nonaccrual loans associated with a 
consolidated VIE in which the Ba
ncorp has no continuing credit 
risk due to the risk being assumed by a third party. 
(c) Excludes restructured nonaccrual loans held for sale.  
Analysis of Net Loan Charge-offs 
Net charge-offs were 48 bps and 64 
bps of average portfolio loans 
and leases for the years 
ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, 
respectively. Table 55 provides a 
summary of credit loss experience 
and net charge-offs as a percentage
 of average portfolio loans and 
leases outstanding by loan category. The ratio of commercial loan and lease net charge-offs to 
average portfolio commercial loans and leases decreased to 46 bps 

during the year ended December 31, 2015 compared to 48 bps in 

the same period in the prior year, primarily as a result of an increase 
in average commercial loan and le
ase balances of $2.3 billion. 
Commercial net charge-offs were flat for the year ended December 

31, 2015 compared to the year ended December 31, 2014.  
The ratio of consumer loan 
and lease net charge-offs to 
average consumer loans and leases decreased to 51 bps for the year 

ended December 31, 2015 compared to 86 bps for the year ended 

December 31, 2014. Residential mort
gage loan net charge-offs, 
which typically involve partial 
charge-offs based upon appraised 
values of underlying collateral, decreased $109 million from 
December 31, 2014. The decrease in net charge-offs on residential 
mortgage loans was primarily du
e to an $87 million charge-off 
related to the transfer of certain residential mortgage loans from 
portfolio to held for sale in 
the fourth quarter of 2014. The 
remaining decrease was due to improvements in delinquencies and 

loss severities. The Bancorp expects the composition of the 

residential mortgage portfolio to improve as it continues to retain 

high quality residential mortgage loans.
 Home equity net charge-offs decreased $20 million compared 
to the year ended December 31, 2014, primarily due to 
improvements in loss severities. In addition, management actively 
manages lines of credit and makes reductions in lending limits when 

it believes it is necessary based on FICO score deterioration and 

property devaluation.  Automobile loans, credit card and other consumer loans and 
leases net charge-offs remained relat
ively flat compared to the prior 
year. The Bancorp utilizes a risk
-adjusted pricing methodology to 
ensure adequate compensation is received for those products that 
have higher credit costs. 
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  70  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 55: SUMMARY OF CREDIT LOSS EXPERIENCE
              For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
 2015  
2014 
 2013  
2012  
2011  
 Losses charged-off: 
                       Commercial and industrial loans  
$(253)  (248)
  (207)
  (194)
  (314)
    Commercial mortgage loans 
 (39)  (37)
  (66)
  (120)
  (211)
    Commercial construction loans 
 (4)  (13)
  (9)
  (34)
  (89)
    Commercial leases 
 (2)  (1)
  (2)
  (10)
  (1)
    Residential mortgage loans 
 (28)  (139)
  (70)
  (129)
  (180)
    Home equity  
 (55)  (75)
  (114)
  (172)
  (234)
    Automobile loans  
 (46)  (44)
  (44)
  (55)
  (85)
    Credit card 
 (94)  (95)
  (92)
  (90)
  (114)
    Other consumer loans and leases 
 (21)  (27)
  (33)
  (33)
  (86)
  Total losses charged-off 
 (542)  (679)
  (637)
  (837)
  (1,314)
  Recoveries of losses previously charged-off: 
                       Commercial and industrial loans  
 24 
  26 
  39 
  29 
  38 
    Commercial mortgage loans 
 12   11 
  19 
  21 
  16 
    Commercial construction loans 
 1   1   5   9   4     Commercial leases 
 -   -   1   2   3     Residential mortgage loans 
 11   13 
  10 
  7   7     Home equity  
 16   16 
  17 
  15 
  14 
    Automobile loans  
 18   17 
  22 
  24 
  32 
    Credit card 
 12   13 
  14 
  16 
  16 
    Other consumer loans and leases 
 2   7   9   10 
  12 
  Total recoveries of losses
 previously charged-off 
 96 
  104 
  136 
  133 
  142 
  Net losses charged-off: 
                       Commercial and industrial loans  
 (229)  (222)
  (168)
  (165)
  (276)
    Commercial mortgage loans 
 (27)  (26)
  (47)
  (99)
  (195)
    Commercial construction loans 
 (3)  (12)
  (4)
  (25)
  (85)
    Commercial leases 
 (2)  (1)
  (1)
  (8)
  2     Residential mortgage loans 
 (17)  (126)
  (60)
  (122)
  (173)
    Home equity  
 (39)  (59)
  (97)
  (157)
  (220)
    Automobile loans  
 (28)  (27)
  (22)
  (31)
  (53)
    Credit card 
 (82)  (82)
  (78)
  (74)
  (98)
    Other consumer loans and leases 
 (19)  (20)
  (24)
  (23)
  (74)
  Total net losses charged-off 
$(446)  (575)
  (501)
  (704)
  (1,172)
  Net losses charged-off as a percent of average portfolio loans and leases: 
                       Commercial and industrial loans  
 0.54 
%0.54 
  0.44 
  0.50 
  0.97 
    Commercial mortgage loans 
 0.38 
  0.34 
  0.56 
  1.02 
  1.89 
    Commercial construction loans 
 0.11   0.79 
  0.51 
  3.08 
  4.96 
    Commercial leases 
 0.04 
  0.01 
  0.04 
  0.22 
  (0.08)
  Total commercial loans and leases 
 0.46 
  0.48 
  0.44 
  0.63 
  1.26 
    Residential mortgage loans 
 0.13 
  0.99 
  0.48 
  1.07 
  1.75 
    Home equity  
 0.46 
  0.65 
  1.02 
  1.51 
  1.97 
    Automobile loans  
 0.24 
  0.22 
  0.18 
  0.26 
  0.47 
    Credit card 
 3.60 
  3.60 
  3.67 
  3.79 
  5.19 
    Other consumer loans and leases 
 3.26 
  5.80 
  6.71 
  7.02 
  15.29 
  Total consumer loans and leases 
 0.51 
  0.86 
  0.77 
  1.13 
  1.79 
  Total net losses charged-off as a percent of average portfolio loans and leases 
 0.48 
%0.64 
  0.58 
  0.85 
  1.49 
          Allowance for Credit Losses 
The allowance for credit losses is
 comprised of the ALLL and the 
reserve for unfunded commitments
. The ALLL provides coverage 
for probable and estimable losses in the loan and lease portfolio. 

The Bancorp evaluates the ALLL each quarter to determine its 

adequacy to cover inherent losses. Several factors are taken into 

consideration in the determinati
on of the overall ALLL, including 
an unallocated component. These factors include, but are not 
limited to, the overall risk profile 
of the loan and lease portfolios, 
net charge-off experience, the extent
 of impaired loans and leases, 
the level of nonaccrual loans and leases, the level of 90 days past 

due loans and leases and the overall level of the ALLL as a percent 

of portfolio loans and leases. The Bancorp also considers overall 

asset quality trends, credit administration and portfolio management 

practices, risk identification practi
ces, credit policy and underwriting 
practices, overall portfolio growth, portfolio concentrations and 
current national and local economic conditions that might impact 
the portfolio. Refer to the Critical Accounting Policies section of 

MD&A for more information. During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Bancorp did 
not substantively change any mater
ial aspect of its overall approach 
in the determination of the ALLL and there have been no material 

changes in assumptions or estimation techniques as compared to 

prior periods that impacted the de
termination of the current period 
allowance. In addition to the ALLL, the Bancorp maintains a 
reserve for unfunded commitments recorded in other liabilities in 

the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The methodology used to 

determine the adequacy of this reserve is similar to the Bancorp™s 

methodology for determining the ALLL. The provision for 

unfunded commitments is included 
in other noninterest expense in 
the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  71  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The ALLL attributable to the portion of the residential 
mortgage and consumer loan and lease portfolio that has not been 

restructured is determined on a 
pooled basis with the segmentation 
based on the similarity of credit risk characteristics. Loss factors for 

real estate backed consumer loans are developed for each pool 

based on the trailing twelve month historical loss rate, as adjusted 
for certain prescriptive loss rate factors and certain qualitative 
adjustment factors. The prescriptive
 loss rate factors and qualitative 
adjustments are designed to reflect risks associated with current 

conditions and trends which are not believed to be fully reflected in 

the trailing twelve month historical 
loss rate. For real estate backed 
consumer loans, the prescriptive loss rate factors include 

adjustments for delinquency trends
, LTV trends, refreshed FICO 
score trends and product mix, an
d the qualitative factors include 
adjustments for credit administration and portfolio management 
practices, credit policy and underwriting practices and the national 

and local economy. The Bancorp considers home price index trends 

in its footprint when determinin
g the national and local economy 
qualitative factor. The Bancorp also considers the volatility of 

collateral valuation trends when
 determining the unallocated 
component of the ALLL. 
The Bancorp™s determination of the ALLL for commercial 
loans is sensitive to the risk grades
 it assigns to these loans. In the 
event that 10% of commercial loans in each risk category would 

experience a downgrade of one ri
sk category, the allowance for 
commercial loans would increase by approximately $149 million at 

December 31, 2015. In addition, the Bancorp™s determination of the 
ALLL for residential mortgage and 
consumer loans and leases is 
sensitive to changes in estimate
d loss rates. In the event that 
estimated loss rates would increase by 10%, the ALLL for 

residential mortgage and consumer 
loans and leases would increase 
by approximately $32 million at December 31, 2015. As several 

qualitative and quantitative factors are considered in determining the 

ALLL, these sensitivity analyses do not necessarily reflect the nature 

and extent of future changes in the ALLL. They are intended to 
provide insights into the impact of adverse changes to risk grades 
and estimated loss rates and do not imply any expectation of future 

deterioration in the risk rating
s or loss rates. Given current 
processes employed by the Bancorp, management believes the risk 

grades and estimated loss rates currently assigned are appropriate.  TABLE 56: CHANGES IN ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
                     For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
 2015 
 2014 
 2013  
2012  
2011  
ALLL:  Balance, beginning of period 
$ 1,322 
 1,582 
 1,854 
 2,255 
 3,004 
  Losses charged-off 
  (542)
 (679)
 (637)
 (837)
 (1,314)
  Recoveries of losses previously charged-off 
  96 
 104 
 136 
 133 
 142 
  Provision for loan and lease losses 
  396 
 315 
 229 
 303 
 423 
Balance, end of period 
$ 1,272 
 1,322 
 1,582 
 1,854 
 2,255 
Reserve for unfunded commitments: 
                 Balance, beginning of period 
$ 135 
 162 
 179 
 181 
 227 
  Provision for (benefit fr
om) unfunded commitments 
  4 
 (27)
 (17)
 (2)
 (46)
  Charge-offs 
  (1)
   - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Balance, end of period 
$ 138 
 135 
 162 
 179 
 181 
    Certain inherent, but unconfirmed losses are probable within the 
loan and lease portfolio. The Bancorp™s current methodology for 

determining the level of losses is based on historical loss rates, 

current credit grades, specific allocation on impaired commercial 

credits above specified thresholds 
and restructured loans and other 
qualitative adjustments. Due to the heavy reliance on realized 

historical losses and the credit gr
ade rating process, the model-
derived estimate of ALLL tends to slightly lag behind the 
deterioration in the portfolio in 
a stable or deteriorating credit 
environment, and tends not to be as responsive when improved 

conditions have presented themselves. Given these model 

limitations, the qualitative adjustmen
t factors may be incremental or 
detrimental to the quantitative model results.  
An unallocated component to the ALLL is maintained to 
recognize the imprecision in esti
mating and measuring loss. The 
unallocated allowance as a percent of
 total portfolio loans and leases 
at both December 31, 2015 and 2014 was 0.12%. The unallocated 

allowance was 9% of the total allowance as of December 31, 2015 

compared to 8% as of December 31, 2014.  
As shown in Table 57, the ALLL as a percent of portfolio 
loans and leases was 1.37% at
 December 31, 2015, compared to 
1.47% at December 31, 2014. The 
ALLL was $1.3 billion at both 
December 31, 2015 and 2014.  

  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  72  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 57: ATTRIBUTION OF ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN 
AND LEASE LOSSES TO PORTFOLIO LOANS AND LEASES
As of December 31 ($ in millions)
  2015  
2014 
 2013  
2012  
2011  
Attributed ALLL: 
                       Commercial and industrial loans  
$ 652 
   673 
   767 
  802 
  929 
    Commercial mortgage loans 
  117 
   140 
   212 
  333 
  441 
    Commercial construction loans 
  24 
   17 
   26 
  33 
  77 
    Commercial leases 
  47 
   45 
   53 
  68 
  80 
    Residential mortgage loans 
  100 
   104 
   189 
  229 
  227 
    Home equity  
  67 
   87 
   94 
   143 
   195 
    Automobile loans  
  40 
   33 
   23 
   28 
   43 
    Credit card 
  99 
   104 
   92 
   87 
   106 
    Other consumer loans and leases 
  11 
   13 
   16 
   20 
   21 
    Unallocated 
  115 
   106 
   110 
  111 
  136 
  Total attributed ALLL 
$ 1,272 
   1,322 
   1,582 
  1,854 
  2,255 
  Portfolio loans and leases: 
                       Commercial and industrial loans  
$ 42,131 
   40,765 
   39,316 
   36,038 
   30,783 
    Commercial mortgage loans 
  6,957 
   7,399 
   8,066 
   9,103 
   10,138 
    Commercial construction loans 
  3,214 
   2,069 
   1,039 
   698 
   1,020 
    Commercial leases 
  3,854 
   3,720 
   3,625 
   3,549 
   3,531 
    Residential mortgage loans 
  13,716 
   12,389 
   12,680 
   12,017 
   10,672 
    Home equity  
  8,301 
   8,886 
   9,246 
   10,018 
   10,719 
    Automobile loans  
  11,493 
   12,037 
   11,984 
   11,972 
   11,827 
    Credit card 
  2,259 
   2,401 
   2,294 
   2,097 
   1,978 
    Other consumer loans and leases 
  657 
   418 
   364 
   290 
   350 
  Total portfolio loans and leases 
$ 92,582 
   90,084 
   88,614 
   85,782 
   81,018 
  Attributed ALL
L as a percent of respective portfolio loans and leases: 
                       Commercial and industrial loans  
  1.55 
% 1.65 
   1.95 
   2.23 
   3.02 
    Commercial mortgage loans 
  1.68 
   1.89 
   2.63 
   3.66 
   4.35 
    Commercial construction loans 
  0.75 
   0.82 
   2.50 
   4.73 
   7.55 
    Commercial leases 
  1.22 
   1.21 
   1.46 
   1.92 
   2.27 
    Residential mortgage loans 
  0.73 
   0.84 
   1.49 
   1.91 
   2.13 
    Home equity  
  0.81 
   0.98 
   1.02 
   1.43 
   1.82 
    Automobile loans  
  0.35 
   0.27 
   0.19 
   0.23 
   0.36 
    Credit card 
  4.38 
   4.33 
   4.01 
   4.15 
   5.36 
    Other consumer loans and leases 
  1.67 
   3.11 
   4.40 
   6.90 
   6.00 
    Unallocated (as a percent of portfolio loans and leases) 
  0.12 
   0.12 
   0.12 
   0.13 
   0.17 
  Attributed ALLL as a percent of portfolio loans and leases 
  1.37 
% 1.47 
   1.79 
   2.16 
   2.78 
          MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT 
Market risk arises from the potential for market fluctuations in 

interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices that may 

result in potential reductions in net income. Interest rate risk, a 

component of market risk, is the exposure to adverse changes in net 

interest income or financial position due to changes in interest rates. 

Management considers interest rate risk a prominent market risk in 

terms of its potential impact on earnin
gs. Interest rate
 risk can occur 
for any one or more of the following reasons: 
 Assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different times;  Short-term and long-term market interest rates may change 
by different amounts; or  
 The expected maturity of various assets or liabilities may 
shorten or lengthen as interest rates change. 
 In addition to the direct impact of interest rate changes on net 
interest income, interest rates can 
indirectly impact earnings through 
their effect on loan demand, credit losses, mortgage originations, the 

value of servicing rights and other sources of the Bancorp™s 

earnings. Stability of the Bancorp™s net income is largely dependent 

upon the effective management of 
interest rate risk. Management 
continually reviews the Bancorp™
s balance sheet composition and 
earnings flows and models the intere
st rate risk, and possible actions 
to reduce this risk, given numerous
 possible future interest rate 
scenarios. 
 Interest Rate Risk Management Oversight
 The Bancorp™s ALCO, which includes senior management 

representatives and is accountable to the ERMC, monitors and 

manages interest rate risk within Board approved policy limits. In 

addition to the risk management ac
tivities of ALCO, the Bancorp 
has a Market Risk Management fu
nction as part of ERM that 
provides independent oversight 
of market risk activities. 
 Net Interest Income Sensitivity
 The Bancorp employs a variety of measurement techniques to 

identify and manage its interest rate risk, including the use of an NII 

simulation model to analyze the sensitivity of net interest income to 

changing interest rates. The model is based on contractual and 

assumed cash flows and repricing characteristics for all of the 

Bancorp™s assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet exposures and 

incorporates market-based assumptions regarding the effect of 
changing interest rates on the prepayment rates of certain assets and 
attrition rates of certain liabilities. The model also includes senior 

management™s projections of the future volume and pricing of each 

of the product lines offered by the Bancorp as well as other 

pertinent assumptions. Actual resu
lts may differ from simulated 
results due to timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate 

changes as well as changes in market conditions and management 

strategies.   MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  73  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The Bancorp™s interest rate risk exposure is evaluated by 
measuring the anticipated change in net interest income over 12-

month and 24-month horizons 
assuming 100 bps and 200 bps 
parallel ramped increases and a 25 bps parallel rate decrease in 

interest rates. In accordance wi
th policy, the 100 bps and 200 bps 
parallel ramped increased rate 
movements are assumed to occur 
over one year and are sustained thereafter. The 25 bps parallel rate 
decrease is an immediate change. The analysis would typically 

include 100 bps and 200 bps parallel ramped decreases in interest 

rates; however, this analysis is currently omitted due to the current 

low levels of certain interest rate
s. Applying the ramps would result 
in certain interest rates becoming negative in the parallel ramped 

decrease scenarios.  
In this economic cycle, banks have experienced significant 
growth in deposit balances, part
icularly in noninterest-bearing 
demand deposits. The Bancorp, like other banks, is exposed to 

deposit balance run-off in a rising interest rate environment. In 

consideration of this risk, the Bancorp™s NII sensitivity modeling 

assumes that approximately $2.5
 billion of noninterest-bearing 
demand deposit balances run-off for each 100 bps increase in short-
term market interest rates. Thes
e lost noninterest-bearing demand 
deposit balances are modeled to flow into funding products that 

reprice in conjunction with
 market rate increases. 
Another important deposit modeling assumption is the amount 
by which interest-bearing deposit rates will increase when market 
rates increase. This deposit repricing sensitivity is known as the beta 
and it represents the expected amount by which the Bancorp 

deposit rates will increase for a given increase in short-term market 

rates. The Bancorp™s NII sensitivity modeling assumes a weighted-

average interest-bearing deposit beta of approximately 70%, which 

is approximately 20 percentage points higher than the 50% beta that 

the Bancorp experienced in the last FRB tightening cycle from June 

2004 to June 2006.  The Bancorp continually evaluates 
the sensitivity of its interest 
rate risk measures to these important deposit modeling 

assumptions. The Bancorp also evalu
ates the sensitivity of other 
important modeling assumptions, 
such as loan and security 
prepayments and early withdrawals on fixed-rate customer liabilities. 
                                 The following table shows the Bancorp™s estimated NII sens
itivity profile and ALCO policy limits as of December 31: 
                                 TABLE 58: ESTIMATED NII SENSITIVITY PROFILE
                            2015  
 2014 
     % Change in NII (FTE)
 ALCO Policy Limits 
 % Change in NII (FTE) 
  ALCO Policy Limits 
            12 Months 
  13-24 
Months 
 12 Months
 13-24 
Months 
 12 Months 
  13-24 
Months 
  12 Months
 13-24 
Months 
Change in Interest Rates (bps) 
          +200  
 2.05 
% 5.93 
 (4.00)
  (6.00)
 2.19 
   6.49 
 (4.00)
  (6.00)
+100  
 1.12 
   3.87 
 - 
  - 
 1.16 
   4.18 
 - 
  - 
-25  
 (1.39)
   (2.49)
 - 
  - 
 (1.43)
   (2.41)
 - 
  - 
           At December 31, 2015, the Bancorp™s net interest income would 
benefit in year one and year two un
der parallel ramp increases and 
suffer from a parallel rate curve decline. The benefit to rising rates 

was attributable to the combination 
of floating-rate assets, including 
the predominantly floating-rate commercial loan portfolio, and 

certain intermediate-term fixed-rate liabilities. The rising rates 

benefit was down modestly compared to December 31, 2014. The 

decline in the NII benefit was primar
ily attributable to growth in the 
investment portfolio, with a partial o
ffset from core deposit growth. 
The year two benefit was also impacted by changes to wholesale 
funding assumptions, which include a greater reliance on floating-

rate debt. 
Tables 59 and 60 provide information on the Bancorp™s 
estimated net interest income sensitivity profile given changes to 

balances or certain key assumptions. 
                    The following table shows the Bancorp's estimated net interest in
come sensitivity profile with a $1 billion decrease and a $1 b
illion increase in demand deposit balances as of December 31, 2015:  
                    TABLE 59:  ESTIMATED NII SENSITIVITY ASSUMING A 
$1 BILLION CHANGE IN DEMAND DEPOSIT BALANCES
      % Change in NII (FTE)
     $1 Billion Balance Decrease 
 $1 Billion Balance Increase 
    12  
 13-24 
 12  
 13-24 
 Change in Interest Rates (bps) 
Months 
 Months 
 Months 
 Months 
 +200  
1.77 
%5.37 
2.33 
6.49 
  +100  
0.98 
3.59 
1.26 
4.14 
            The following table shows the Bancorp's estimated net interest in
come sensitivity profile with a 25% increase and a 25% decreas
e to the deposit 
beta assumption as of December 31, 2015. The resulting weighted-avera
ge interest-bearing deposit beta included in this analysis
 is approximatel
y 88% and 52%, respectively, as of December 31, 2015: 
                      MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  74  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 60:  ESTIMATED NII SENSITIVITY WITH DEPOSIT BETA ASSUMPTION CHANGES
      % Change in NII (FTE)
     Betas 25% Higher 
 Betas 25% Lower 
    12  
 13-24 
 12  
 13-24 
 Change in Interest Rates (bps) 
Months 
 Months 
 Months 
 Months 
 +200  
(1.07)
%(0.30)
5.16 
12.16 
  +100  
(0.44)
0.75 
2.68 
6.98 
                     Economic Value of Equity Sensitivity
 The Bancorp also uses EVE as a measurement tool in managing 

interest rate risk. Whereas the net interest income sensitivity analysis 

highlights the impact on forecasted NII over one and two year time 
horizons, the EVE analysis is a point in time analysis of the current 
positions that incorporates all cash flows over their estimated 

remaining lives. The EVE of the balance sheet is defined as the 

discounted present value of all asset and net derivative cash flows 

less the discounted value of all liability cash flows. Due to this 
longer horizon, the sensitivity of
 EVE to changes in the level of 
interest rates is a measure of longer-term interest rate risk.  EVE 

values only the current balance sheet and does not incorporate the 

growth assumptions used in the NII 
sensitivity analysis. As with the 
NII simulation model, assumptions 
about the timing and variability 
of existing balance sheet cash flows are critical in the EVE analysis. 

Particularly important are assump
tions driving loan and security 
prepayments and the expected balance attrition and pricing of 

transaction deposits. 
                    The following table shows the Bancorp™s estima
ted EVE sensitivity profile as of December 31: 
        TABLE 61: ESTIMATED EVE SENSITIVITY PROFILE
                    2015  
 2014 
  Change in Interest Rates (bps) 
Change in EVE 
  ALCO Policy Limit
 Change in EVE 
  ALCO Policy Limit
 +200  
 (5.21)
% (12.00)
 (2.21)
 (12.00)
+100  
 (2.30)
   - 
   (0.62)
   - 
+25  
 (0.44)
   - 
   (0.06)
   - 
-25  
 0.32 
   - 
   (0.05)
   - 
    The EVE sensitivity to rising rates was modestly negative at 
December 31, 2015 and exposure to rising rates has increased from 
the EVE sensitivity at December 31, 2014. The higher level of EVE 
risk since December 31, 2014 was attributable to growth in the 

investment portfolio and certain 
fixed-rate consumer loans. While an instantaneous shift in interest rates was used in this 
analysis to provide an estimate of exposure, the Bancorp believes 

that a gradual shift in interest rates would have a much more modest 

impact. Since EVE measures the discounted present value of cash 
flows over the estimated lives of instruments, the change in EVE 
does not directly correlate to the degree that earnings would be 
impacted over a shorter time horizon (e.g., the current fiscal year). 

Further, EVE does not take into account factors such as future 

balance sheet growth, changes in 
product mix, changes in yield 
curve relationships and changing product spreads that could 

mitigate or exacerbate the impact of changes in interest rates. The 

NII simulations and EVE analyses do not necessarily include certain 

actions that management may undertake to manage risk in response 
to anticipated changes in interest rates. 
The Bancorp regularly evaluates its exposures to a static 
balance sheet forecast, LIBOR, Pri
me Rate and other basis risks, 
yield curve twist risks and embedded 
options risks. In addition, the 
impact on NII on an FTE basis and EVE of extreme changes in 

interest rates is modeled, wherein the Bancorp employs the use of 

yield curve shocks and envi
ronment-specific scenarios. 
 Use of Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate Risk 
An integral component of the Bancorp™s interest rate risk 

management strategy is its use of de
rivative instruments to minimize 
significant fluctuations in earnings caused by changes in market 

interest rates. Examples of deriva
tive instruments that the Bancorp 
may use as part of its interest rate risk management strategy include 
interest rate swaps, interest rate floors, interest rate caps, forward 
contracts, forward starting intere
st rate swaps, options, swaptions 
and TBA securities.  
 As part of its overall risk management strategy relative to its 
mortgage banking activity, the Bancorp enters into forward 

contracts accounted for as free-st
anding derivatives to economically 
hedge IRLCs that are also considered free-standing derivatives. 

Additionally, the Bancorp economically hedges its exposure to 

mortgage loans held for sale through the use of forward contracts 

and mortgage options.  
The Bancorp also establishes de
rivative contracts with major 
financial institutions to economic
ally hedge significant exposures 
assumed in commercial customer accommodation derivative 

contracts. Generally, these contracts 
have similar terms in order to 
protect the Bancorp from market volatility. Credit risk arises from 

the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their 

contracts, which the Bancorp minimizes through collateral 

arrangements, approvals, limits and monitoring procedures. For 
further information including the notional amount and fair values of 
these derivatives, refer to Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated 

Financial Statements. 

 Portfolio Loans and Leases and Interest Rate Risk 
Although the Bancorp™s portfolio
 loans and leases contain both 
fixed and floating/adjustable-rate products, the rates of interest 

earned by the Bancorp on the outstanding balances are generally 
established for a period of time. The interest rate sensitivity of loans 
and leases is directly related to the 
length of time the rate earned is 
established. The following table 
summarizes the carrying value of 
the Bancorp™s portfolio loans and le
ases expected cash flows as of 
December 31, 2015: 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  75  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 62: PORTFOLIO LOANS AND 
LEASES EXPECTED CASH FLOWS
               ($ in millions) 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-5 years  Over 5 years 
 Total 
     Commercial and industrial loans 
$ 21,699 
    18,933 
    1,499 
   42,131 
       Commercial mortgage loans 
  2,728 
    3,781 
    448 
   6,957 
       Commercial construction loans 
  1,301 
    1,881 
    32 
   3,214 
       Commercial leases 
  751 
    1,756 
    1,347 
   3,854 
  Total commercial loans and leases 
  26,479 
    26,351 
    3,326 
   56,156 
       Residential mortgage loans 
  2,446 
    6,229 
    5,041 
   13,716 
       Home equity 
  1,050 
    1,654 
    5,597 
   8,301 
       Automobile loans 
  5,159 
    6,203 
    131 
   11,493 
       Credit card 
  452 
    1,807 
    - 
   2,259 
       Other consumer loans and leases 
  482 
    135 
    40 
   657 
  Total consumer loans and leases 
  9,589 
    16,028 
    10,809 
   36,426 
  Total portfolio loans and leases 
$ 36,068 
    42,379 
    14,135 
   92,582 
    Additionally, the following table displays a su
mmary of expected cash flow
s, excluding interest recei
vable, occurring after one 
year for both fixed 
and floating/adjustable-rate loans and leases as of December 31, 2015:
             TABLE 63: PORTFOLIO LOANS AND LEASES EXPE
CTED CASH FLOWS OCCURRING AFTER 1 YEAR
      Interest Rate 
($ in millions) 
 Fixed 
  Floating or Adjustable 
     Commercial and industrial loans 
$ 2,729 
 17,703 
       Commercial mortgage loans 
  958 
 3,271 
       Commercial construction loans 
  4 
 1,909 
       Commercial leases 
  3,103 
 - 
  Total commercial loans and leases 
  6,794 
 22,883 
       Residential mortgage loans 
  8,113 
 3,157 
       Home equity 
  624 
 6,627 
       Automobile loans 
  6,280 
 54 
       Credit card 
  535 
 1,272 
       Other consumer loans and leases 
  20 
 155 
  Total consumer loans and leases 
  15,572 
 11,265 
  Total portfolio loans and leases 
$ 22,366 
 34,148 
    Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights and Interest Rate Risk 
The net carrying amount of the residential MSR portfolio was $784 
million and $856 million as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, 

respectively. The value of servic
ing rights can fluctuate sharply 
depending on changes in interest rates and other factors. Generally, 
as interest rates decline and loans 
are prepaid to take advantage of 
refinancing, the total value of existing servicing rights declines 

because no further servicing fees ar
e collected on repaid loans. The 
Bancorp maintains a non-qualifying hedging strategy relative to its 

mortgage banking activity in orde
r to manage a portion of the risk 
associated with changes in the valu
e of its MSR portfolio as a result 
of changing interest rates. 
Mortgage rates increased during the year ended December 31, 
2015 which caused actual prepayments
 on the servicing portfolio to 
decrease. The decrease in actual prepayments on the servicing 

portfolio caused the modeled prepayment speeds to decrease, which 

led to a recovery of temporary impairment of $4 million on 

servicing rights during the year ended December 31, 2015. Mortgage 

rates decreased during the year ended December 31, 2014 which 

caused actual prepayments on the servicing portfolio to increase. 
The increase in actual prepayments on the servicing portfolio caused 
the modeled prepayment speeds 
to increase, which led to a 
temporary impairment of $65 million on servicing rights during the 

year ended December 31, 2014. 
Servicing rights are deemed temporarily impaired when a 
borrower™s loan rate is distinctly higher than prevailing rates. 

Temporary impairment on servicing rights is reversed when the 
prevailing rates return to a level 
commensurate with the borrower™s 
loan rate. In addition to the MSR valuation, the Bancorp recognized 
net gains of $90 million and $95 million on derivatives associated 

with its non-qualifying hedging strategy during the years ended 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The Bancorp may adjust 
its hedging strategy to reflect its assessment of the composition of 
its MSR portfolio, the cost of hedging and the anticipated 

effectiveness of the hedges given the economic environment. Refer 

to Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for 

further discussion on servicing righ
ts and the instruments used to 
hedge interest rate risk on MSRs. 

 Foreign Currency Risk 
The Bancorp may enter into foreign exchange derivative contracts 

to economically hedge certain foreign denominated loans. The 

derivatives are classified as fr
ee-standing instruments with the 
revaluation gain or loss being recorded in other noninterest income 

in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The balance of the 

Bancorp™s foreign denominated loans at December 31, 2015 and 

December 31, 2014 was $812 million and $720 million, respectively. 

The Bancorp also enters into foreign exchange contracts for the 
benefit of commercial customers involved in international trade to 
hedge their exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. The Bancorp 

has internal controls in place to help ensure excessive risk is not 

being taken in providing this serv
ice to customers. These controls 
include an independent determination of currency volatility and 

credit equivalent exposure on these 
contracts, counterparty credit 
approvals and country limits.   MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  76  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT 
The goal of liquidity management is to provide adequate funds to 

meet changes in loan and lease demand, unexpected levels of 

deposit withdrawals and other cont
ractual obligations. Mitigating 
liquidity risk is accomplished by 
maintaining liquid assets in the 
form of cash, investment securities, maintaining sufficient unused 

borrowing capacity in the debt markets and delivering consistent 

growth in core deposits. A summary of certain obligations and 

commitments to make future payments under contracts is included 

in Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
The Bancorp maintains a contingency funding plan that 
assesses the liquidity needs unde
r various scenarios of market 
conditions, asset growth and cred
it rating downgrades. The plan 
includes liquidity stress testing 
which measures various sources and 
uses of funds under the different scenarios. The contingency plan 

provides for ongoing monitoring of unused borrowing capacity and 

available sources of contingent liquidity to prepare for unexpected 

liquidity needs and to cover unanti
cipated events that could affect 
liquidity. 

 Sources of Funds The Bancorp™s primary sources of funds relate to cash flows from 

loan and lease repayments, payments from securities related to sales 

and maturities, the sale or securi
tization of loans and leases and 
funds generated by core deposits, in addition to the use of public 

and private debt offerings. Table 62 of the Market Risk 
Management subsection of the 
Risk Management section of MD
&A illustrates the expected 
maturities from loan and lease 
repayments. Of the $29.0 billion of 
securities in the Bancorp™s availab
le-for-sale and other portfolio at 
December 31, 2015, $3.9 billion in prin
cipal and interest is expected 
to be received in the next 12 months and an additional $3.7 billion is 

expected to be received in the next 13 to 24 months. For further 

information on the Bancorp™s securities portfolio, refer to the 

Investment Securities subsection 
of the Balance Sheet Analysis 
section of MD&A. 
Asset-driven liquidity is provided by the Bancorp™s ability to 
sell or securitize loans and leases. In order to reduce the exposure to 

interest rate fluctuations and to manage liquidity, the Bancorp has 

developed securitization and sale procedures for several types of 

interest-sensitive assets. A majority of the long-term, fixed-rate 

single-family residential mortgage loans underwritten according to 

FHLMC or FNMA guidelines are sold for cash upon origination. 

Additional assets such as certain ot
her residential mortgages, certain 
commercial loans, home equity loan
s, automobile loans and other 
consumer loans are also capable of 
being securitized or sold. For the 
years ended December 31, 2015 and 
2014, the Bancorp sold or 
securitized loans totaling $6.4 billi
on and $9.4 billion, respectively. 
For further information on the transfer of financial assets, refer to 

Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Core deposits have historically provided the Bancorp with a 
sizeable source of relatively stable and low cost funds. The 
Bancorp™s average core deposits and average shareholders™ equity 
funded 82% of its average total assets during the years ended 

December 31, 2015 and 2014. In addition to core deposit funding, 

the Bancorp also accesses a variety of other short-term and long-

term funding sources, which include the use of the FHLB system. 

Certificates $100,000 and over and deposits in the Bancorp™s foreign 

branch located in the Cayman Islands are wholesale funding tools 

utilized to fund asset growth. Management does not rely on any one 
source of liquidity and manages av
ailability in response to changing 
balance sheet needs. As of December 31, 2015, $8.9 billion of debt or other 
securities were available for issuance under the current Bancorp™s 

Board of Directors™ authorizations 
and the Bancorp is authorized to 
file any necessary registration st
atements with the SEC to permit 
ready access to the public securi
ties markets; however, access to 
these markets may depend on market conditions. On July 27, 2015, 

the Bancorp issued and sold $1.1 billion of senior fixed-rate notes. 
At December 31, 2015, the Bancorp has approximately $38.6 billion 
of borrowing capacity available th
rough secured borrowing sources 
including the FHLB and FRB. 
The Bancorp™s banking subsidiary™s global bank note program 
has a borrowing capacity of $25 billion. On August 20, 2015, the 

Bank issued and sold $1.0 billion of
 senior fixed-rate notes and $250 
million of senior floating-rate notes. The Bank has $18.4 billion of 

borrowing capacity under the bank note program as of December 
31, 2015. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the Bancorp 
transferred approximately $750 million in consumer automobile 

loans to a bankruptcy remote trust which was deemed to be a VIE. 

The Bancorp concluded that it is the primary beneficiary of this 

VIE and, therefore, has consolidated this VIE. The assets of this 

VIE are restricted to the settlement of the notes and other 

obligations of the VIE. Third-party holders of the notes do not 
have recourse to the general assets of the Bancorp. 
 Liquidity Coverage Ratio and Net Stable Funding Ratio  
A key reform within the Basel III framework to strengthen 

international liquidity standards was the BCBS™ introduction of the 

LCR and NSFR. On January 7, 2013, the BCBS issued a final 

standard for the LCR applicable 
to large internationally active 
banking organizations. The BCBS i
ssued a final NSFR standard in 
the fourth quarter of 2014 and di
sclosure requirements in the 
second quarter of 2015 which are app
licable to internationally active 
banks. The NSFR will become a mi
nimum standard by January 1, 
2018. The Bancorp is currently ev
aluating the BCBS™ standard for 
NSFR and will begin to conform to a domestic version of the 

NSFR once adopted by the U.S. banking regulators. 
Section 165 of the DFA requires the FRB to establish 
enhanced liquidity standards in the U.S. for BHCs with total assets 
of $50 billion or greater. On October 10, 2014, the U.S. banking 
agencies published final rules im
plementing a quantitative liquidity 
requirement consistent with the LC
R standard established by the 
BCBS for large internationally active banking organizations, 

generally those with $250 billion or more in total consolidated assets 

or $10 billion or more in on-balance sheet foreign exposure. In 

addition, a Modified LCR requir
ement was finalized for BHCs with $50 billion or more in total cons
olidated assets that are not 
internationally active, such as 
the Bancorp. The Modified LCR 
requires BHCs to maintain HQLA eq
ual to its calculated net cash 
outflows over a 30 calendar-day stress period multiplied by a factor 

of 0.7. The Modified LCR is eff
ective January 1, 2016 and requires 
BHCs to calculate its LCR on a monthly basis. The final rule 

includes a transition period for the modified LCR in which BHCs 

must maintain HQLA of 90% of its calculated net cash outflows for 

2016 and then 100% beginning in 2017. The Bancorp estimates its 
Modified LCR was 116% at December 31, 2015 calculated under 
the Modified LCR final rule. For mo
re information on LCR, refer to 
the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of MD&A.  

 Credit Ratings 
The cost and availability of financing to the Bancorp are impacted 

by its credit ratings. A downgrade to the Bancorp™s credit ratings 

could affect its ability to access the credit markets and increase its 
borrowing costs, thereby adversely impacting the Bancorp™s 
financial condition and liquidity. Key factors in maintaining high 

credit ratings include a stable and diverse earnings stream, strong 

credit quality, strong capital ratios and diverse funding sources, in 

addition to disciplined liquidi
ty monitoring procedures. 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  77  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The Bancorp™s credit ratings ar
e summarized in Table 64. The 
ratings reflect the ratings agency™s 
view on the Bancorp™s capacity to 
meet financial commitments. *  

 * As an investor, you should be aware that a security rating is not a 
recommendation to buy, sell or hold securiti
es, that it may be subject to revision 
or withdrawal at any time by the assi
gning rating organization and that each 
rating should be evaluated independ
ently of any other rating. Additional 
information on the credit rating ranking wi
thin the overall classification system is 
located on the website of each credit rating agency. 
          TABLE 64: AGENCY RATINGS
         
As of February 25, 2016
 Moody's
 Standard and Poor's Fitch DBRS 
Fifth Third Bancorp:         
    Short-term No rating A-2 F1 R-1L 
    Senior debt Baa1 BBB+ A AL 

    Subordinated debt Baa1 BBB A- BBBH 

Fifth Third Bank:         

    Short-term P-1 A-2 F1 R-1L 

    Long-term deposit Aa3 No rating A+ A 

    Senior debt A3 A- A A 

    Subordinated debt Baa1 BBB+ A- AL 
          OPERATIONAL RISK MANAGEMENT 
Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or 

failed processes or systems or due to external events that are neither 

market nor credit-related. Operat
ional risk is inherent in the 
Bancorp™s activities and can manifest
 itself in various ways including 
fraudulent acts, business interrupt
ions, inappropriate behavior of 
employees, unintentional failure to co
mply with applicable laws and 
regulations, cyber-security incidents 
and privacy breaches, or failure 
of vendors to perform in accordance with their arrangements. These 
events could result in financial losse
s, litigation and regulatory fines, 
as well as other damage to the Bancorp. The Bancorp™s risk 

management goal is to keep operational risk at appropriate levels 

consistent with the Bancorp™s risk appetite, financial strength, the 

characteristics of its businesses, 
the markets in which it operates, 
and the competitive and regulatory environment to which it is 
subject. To control, monitor, and govern operational risk, the Bancorp 
maintains an overall Risk Management Framework which comprises 

governance oversight, risk assessment, capital measurement, 

monitoring, and reporting as well as
 a formal three lines of defense 
approach. ERM is responsible for prescribing the framework to the 

lines of business and corporate functions, and to provide 

independent oversight of its implementation (second line of 

defense). In 2015, Business Controls
 Directors were appointed in 
each of the lines of business to ensure consistent implementation 
and execution of managing day to day operational risk (first line of 
defense).   
The Bancorp™s risk management framework consists of five 
integrated components, including 
identifying, assessing, managing, 
monitoring and independent governance reporting of risk. The 

corporate Operational Risk Management function within Enterprise 

Risk is responsible for developing and overseeing the 

implementation of the Bancorp™s a
pproach to managing operational 
risk. This includes providing go
vernance, awareness and training, 
tools, guidance and oversight to 
support implementation of key risk 
programs and systems as they relate to operational risk 

management, such as risk and control self-assessments, new 

product/initiative risk reviews, 
key risk indicators, Vendor Risk 
Management, and operational losses. The function is also 

responsible for developing reports that support the proactive 

management of operational risk across the enterprise. The lines of 
business and corporate functions ar
e responsible for managing the 
operational risks associated with their areas in accordance with the 

risk management framework. The framework is intended to enable 

the Bancorp to function with a sound and well-controlled 

operational environment. These processes support the Bancorp™s 

goals to minimize future operational losses and strengthen the 

Bancorp™s performance by maintain
ing sufficient capital to absorb 
operational losses that are incurred.  
COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT 

Regulatory Compliance Risk is defined as the risk of legal or 

regulatory sanctions, financial loss, 
or damage to reputation as a 
result of noncompliance with (i) applicable laws, regulations, rules 

and other regulatory requirements (including but not limited to the 

risk of consumers experiencing economic loss or other legal harm as 

a result of noncompliance with consumer protection laws, 
regulations and requirements); (ii)
 internal policies and procedures, 
standards of best practice or codes of conduct; and (iii) principles of 

integrity and fair dealing applicable
 to Fifth Third™s activities and 
functions.  Fifth Third focuses 
on managing regulatory compliance 
risk in accordance with the Bancorp™s integrated risk management 

framework, which ensures consistent processes for identifying, 

assessing, managing, monitoring
, and reporting risks.  The 
Bancorp™s risk management goal is to keep compliance risk at 
appropriate levels consistent with the Bancorp™s risk appetite.  
 The current regulatory environment, including heightened 

regulatory expectations and 
material changes in laws and 
regulations, increases compliance ri
sk.  To mitigate compliance risk, 
Compliance Risk Management provides independent oversight to 
ensure consistency and sufficiency, and ensures that lines of 

business, regions and support functions are adequately identifying, 

assessing and monitoring compliance risks and adopting proper 

mitigation strategies.  The lines of
 business and enterprise functions 
are responsible for managing the compliance risks associated with 

their areas.  Additionally, Compliance Risk Management implements 
key compliance programs and processes including but not limited 
to, risk assessments, key risk indi
cators program, issues tracking, 
regulatory compliance testing and monitoring, anti-money 

laundering, privacy, and oversees
 the Bancorp™s compliance with the 
Community Reinvestment Act. 

 Fifth Third also focuses on reporting and escalation of 

compliance issues to senior management and the Board.  The 

Management Compliance Committee is the key committee that 
oversees and supports Fifth Third in the management of 
compliance risk across the enterprise.  The Management 

Compliance Committee addresses Fifth Third-wide compliance 

issues, industry best practices, legislative developments, regulatory 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  78  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 concerns, and other leading indi
cators of compliance risk.  The 
Management Compliance Committee reports to the Enterprise Risk 
Management Committee, which repor
ts to Risk and Compliance 
Committee of the Board of Directors. 
CAPITAL MANAGEMENT  

Management regularly reviews the Bancorp™s capital levels to help 
ensure it is appropriately posi
tioned under various operating 
environments. The Bancorp has established a Capital Committee 

which is responsible for making capital plan recommendations to 

management. These recommendations are reviewed by the ERMC 

and the annual capital plan is appr
oved by the Board of Directors. 
The Capital Committee is responsibl
e for execution oversight of the 
capital actions of the capital plan.  Regulatory Capital Ratios 
The Basel III Final Rule was effective for the Bancorp on January 1, 
2015, subject to phase-in periods for certain of its components and 

other provisions. It established quanti
tative measures that assign risk 
weightings to assets and off-ba
lance sheet items and also defined 
and set minimum regulatory capital requirements. Prior to January 1, 
2015, the Bancorp was subject to the General Risk-Based Capital 

Rules (Basel I). The minimum capi
tal ratios established under the 
Basel III Final Rule are 4.5% for the CET1 capital ratio, 6% for the 
Tier I risk-based capital ratio, 8% for the Total risk-based capital 
ratio and 4% for the Tier I Leverage ratio (Tier I capital to average 
consolidated assets). The PCA provisions adopted by the U.S. 
banking agencies define ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ ratios for CET1 capital, 
Tier I risk-based capital, Total risk-based capital and Tier I Leverage 

greater than or equal to 6.5%, 8%, 10% and 5%, respectively. 

Additionally, the Basel III Final Rule 
includes a capital conservation 
buffer of CET1 capital of 2.5% in additional to the 4.5% minimum 

requirement, or 7%, in order to
 avoid limitations on capital 
distributions and discretionary
 bonus payments to executive 
officers. The Bancorp exceeded these ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ and ﬁcapital 
conservation bufferﬂ ratios for all periods presented. 
The Bancorp made a one-time permanent election to not 
include AOCI in regulatory capital in the March 31, 2015 FFIEC 

031 and FR Y-9C filings. The Basel III Final Rule phases out the 

inclusion of certain TruPS as a component of Tier I capital. Under 

these provisions, these TruPS would qualify as a component of Tier 

II capital. At December 31, 2015, the Bancorp™s Tier I capital 

included $13 million of TruPS representing approximately 1 bp of 
risk-weighted assets under the tran
sition provisions of the Basel III 
Final Rule. 
                           The following table summarizes the Banc
orp's capital ratios as of December 31:
                             TABLE 65: CAPITAL RATIOS
  ($ in millions)
      2015 
    2014 
 2013  
2012  
2011 
  Average total Bancorp shareholders' equity as a percent of average assets
       11.32 
% 11.59 
  11.56 
   11.65 
  11.41 
Tangible equity as a percent of tangible assets
(a)(d)
      9.55 
   9.41 
  9.44 
   9.17 
  9.03 
Tangible common equity as a percent of tangible assets
(a)(d)
      8.59 
   8.43 
  8.63 
   8.83 
  8.68 
                                Basel III
                        Transitional(b)
   Basel I
(c)
 CET1 capital
  $   11,917 
  N/A N/A  N/A N/ATier I capital
       13,260 
  12,764 
  12,094 
   11,685 
  12,503 
Total regulatory capital
       17,134 
   16,895 
  16,431 
   15,811 
  16,876 
Risk-weighted assets
       121,290 
   117,878 
  115,969 
   109,301 
  104,219 
                           Regulatory capital ratios:
                          CET1 capital
       9.82 
%N/A N/A  N/A N/ATier I risk-based capital
       10.93 
  10.83 
  10.43 
   10.69 
  12.00 
Total risk-based capital
       14.13 
   14.33 
  14.17 
   14.47 
  16.19 
Tier I leverage
       9.54 
   9.66 
  9.73 
   10.15 
  11.25 
Tier I common equity(a)
     N/A   9.65 
  9.45 
   9.54 
  9.41 
                                Basel III
                        Fully Phased-In
                  CET1 capital
(a)
      9.72 
%N/A N/A  N/A N/A(a) These are non-GAAP measures. For furthe
r information, refer to the Non-GAAP
 Financial Measures section of MD&A. 
(b) Under the U.S. banking agencies™ Basel III Final Rule, assets and 
credit equivalent amounts of 
off-balance sheet exposures are 
calculated according to the standardized approach for risk-weighted 
assets. The resulting weighted values are added togeth
er resulting in the total risk-weighted assets. 
(c) These capital amounts and ratios were calculated under the Superv
isory Agencies general risk-based capital rules (Basel I) whic
h were in effect prior to January 1, 2015. 
(d) Excludes unrealized gains and losses. 
Preferred Stock Offering 
As contemplated by the 2014 capital plan part of the FRB™s CCAR, 
on June 5, 2014, the Bancorp issued 
in a registered public offering 
300,000 depositary shares, represen
ting 12,000 shares of 4.90% 
fixed-to-floating rate non-cumulativ
e Series J perpetual preferred 
stock, for net proceeds of $297 million. Each preferred share has a 

$25,000 liquidation preference. The preferred stock accrues 

dividends, on a non-cumulative semi-a
nnual basis, at an annual rate 
of 4.90% through but excluding September 30, 2019, at which time 

it converts to a quarterly floating rate dividend of three-month 
LIBOR plus 3.129%. Subject to any required regulatory approval, 
the Bancorp may redeem the Series J preferred shares at its option 
in whole or in part, at any time on or after September 30, 2019, or at 
any time following a regulatory capital event. The Series J preferred 

shares are not convertible into Bancorp common shares or any 

other securities.  

    MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  79  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Stress Tests and CCAR In 2011 the FRB adopted the capital plan rule, which requires BHCs 
with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more to submit annual 

capital plans to the FRB for revi
ew. Under the rule, these capital 
plans must include detailed descriptions of the following: the BHC™s 

internal processes for assessing capital adequacy; the policies 
governing capital actions such as common stock issuances, 
dividends and share repurchases; an
d all planned capital actions over 
a nine-quarter planning horizon. Further, each BHC must also 

report to the FRB the results of stress tests conducted by the BHC 

under a number of scenarios that assess the sources and uses of 

capital under baseline and stressed economic scenarios. The FRB 

launched the 2015 stress testing program and CCAR on October 23, 

2014, with firm submissions of stress 
test results and capital plans to 
the FRB due to the FRB on January 5, 2015, which the Bancorp 
submitted as required. Refer to Note 3 and Note 23 of the Notes to 

Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion on the FRB™s 

review of the capital plan, the 
FRB™s non-objection to the Bancorp™s 
proposed capital actions and the Bancorp™s capital actions taken in 

2015. The FRB launched the 2016 stress testing program and CCAR 
on January 28, 2016. The stress testing results and capital plan are 
required to be submitted by the Bancorp to the FRB by April 5, 
2016.  The FRB expects to release summary results of the 2016 stress 
testing program and CCAR in June 
of 2016. The results will include 
supervisory projections of capital 
ratios, losses and revenues under 
the supervisory adverse and supervisory severely adverse scenarios. 

The FRB will also issue an object
ion or non-objection to each 
participating institution™s capit
al plan submitted under CCAR. The 
FRB™s summary results will also include an overview of 

methodologies used for supervisory tests. Additionally, as a CCAR 
institution, the Bancorp will be requi
red to disclose the results of its 
company-run stress test as required by the DFA, within 15 days of 

the date the FRB discloses the results of its DFA supervisory stress 

test.   Dividend Policy and Stock Repurchase Program  
The Bancorp™s common stock dividend policy and stock repurchase 

program reflect its earnings outlook
, desired payout ratios, the need 
to maintain adequate capital levels
, the ability of its subsidiaries to 
pay dividends, the need to comply with safe and sound banking 

practices as well as meet regulat
ory requirements and expectations. 
The Bancorp declared dividends per common share of $0.52 and 

$0.51 during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, 

respectively. The Bancorp entered into or settled a number of 

accelerated share repurchase tran
sactions during the years ended 
December 31, 2015 and 2014. Refer to Note 23 of the Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements fo
r additional information on the 
accelerated share repurchases.          The following table summarizes shares authorized
 for repurchase for the years ended December 31:
          TABLE 66: SHARE REPURCHASES
      2015 
 2014 
 Shares authorized for repurchase at January 1
     73,180,368 
 43,071,613 
Additional authorizations
(a)
    - 
 64,908,628 
Share repurchases
(b)
    (42,607,855)
 (34,799,873)
Shares authorized for repurchase at December 31 
     30,572,513 
 73,180,368 
Average price paid per share
(b)
 $ 19.60 
 20.87 
(a) In March 2014, the Bancorp announced that its Board of Directors had authorized management to purchase 100 million shares of th
e Bancorp™s common stock through the open market or in any 
private transaction. The authorization does 
not include specific price targets or an expiration date. This share repurchase aut
horization replaces the Board™s previous authorization pursuant to which 
approximately 35 million shares remained available for repurchase by the Bancorp. 
(b) Excludes 1,930,233
 and 2,116,370 shares repurchased during the years ended 
December 31, 2015
 and 2014, respectively, in 
connection with various employee compensation plans. These 
purchases are not included in the calculation for average price pa
id per share and do not count against the maximum number of s
hares that may yet be repurchased under the Board of Directors™ 
authorization. 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  80  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS  
In the ordinary course of business, the Bancorp enters into financial 
transactions that are considered
 off-balance sheet arrangements as 
they involve varying elements of mark
et, credit and liquidity risk in 
excess of the amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance 

Sheets. The Bancorp™s off-balan
ce sheet arrangements include 
commitments, contingent liabilities,
 guarantees and transactions 
with non-consolidated VIEs. A brief discussion of these 

transactions is as follows: 

 Commitments 
The Bancorp has certain commitments to make future payments 

under contracts, including commitments to extend credit, letters of 

credit, forward contracts related to held for sale residential mortgage 

loans, noncancelable operating lease obligations, purchase 

obligations, capital commitments fo
r private equity investments and 
capital expenditures. Refer to Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated 

Financial Statements for additional information on commitments.  

 Guarantees and Contingent Liabilities 
The Bancorp has performance obligations upon the occurrence of 
certain events provided in cer
tain contractual arrangements, 
including residential mortgage loans sold with representation and 

warranty provisions or credit recourse. Refer to Note 17 of the 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional 

information on guarantees and contingent liabilities. 

 Transactions with Non-consolidated VIEs 
The Bancorp engages in a variety of activities that involve VIEs, 

which are legal entities that lack 
sufficient equity to finance their 
activities, or the equity investors of the entities as a group lack any 

of the characteristics of a controlling interest. The investments in 

those entities in which the Bancorp was determined not to be the 

primary beneficiary but holds a variable interest in the entity are 

accounted for under the equity method of accounting or other 
accounting standards as appropriate and not consolidated. Refer to 
Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for 

additional information on non-consolidated VIEs.
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  81  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER COMMITMENTS 
The Bancorp has certain obligations and commitments to make 
future payments under contracts. The aggregate contractual 

obligations and commitments at December 31, 2015 are shown in 

Table 67. As of December 31, 2015, the Bancorp has unrecognized 
tax benefits that, if recognized, wo
uld impact the effective tax rate 
in future periods. Due to the un
certainty of the amounts to be 
ultimately paid as well as the timing of such payments, all uncertain 

tax liabilities that have not been paid have been excluded from the 

following table. For further detail on the impact of income taxes, 
refer to Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 TABLE 67: CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER COMMITMENTS
      As of December 31, 2015
 ($ in millions)
    Less than 1 
year 1-3 years 3-5 years Greater than 5 years 
Total 
Contractually obligated payments due by period:
             Deposits with a stated maturity of less than one year
(a) $ 96,594
 - 
 - 
 - 
96,594
     Time deposits
(c)
    2,425
 2,207 
 1,955 
 24 
6,611
     Short-term borrowings
(e)
   1,658
 - 
 - 
 - 
1,658
     Long-term debt
(b)    3,844
4,813 
3,484 
3,703 
15,844
     Forward contracts related to he
ld for sale residential mortgage loans
(d)
   1,330
 - 
 - 
 - 
1,330
     Noncancelable operating lease obligations
(f)
   91166 
 136 
 242 
635
     Partnership investment commitments
(g)   212
 86 
 37 
 32 
367
     Pension benefit payments
(i)
   1935 
 32 
 79 
165
     Purchase obligations and capital expenditures
(h)
   4731 
 12 
 - 
90     Capital lease obligations
    712 
 6 
 2 
27Total contractually obligated payments due by period
  $ 106,227
7,350 
5,662 
4,082 
123,321
Other commitments by expiration period:
                   Commitments to extend credit
(j)
 $ 28,469
13,095 
17,774 
7,606 
66,944
     Letters of credit
(k)
   1,700
771 
530 
54 
3,055
Total other commitments by expiration period
  $ 30,169
13,866 
18,304 
7,660 
69,999
(a) Includes demand, interest checking, savings, money market and fo
reign office deposits. For additional information, refer to the
 Deposits subsection of the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A. 
(b) Interest-bearing obligations are principally used to fund inter
est-earning assets. As such, inte
rest charges on contractual obl
igations were excluded from reported amounts, as the potential cash outflows 
would have corresponding cash inflows from 
interest-earning assets. Refer to Note 16 
of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Sta
tements for additional information on these debt instruments. 
(c) Includes other time and certificates $100,000 and over. For additio
nal information, refer to the Deposits subsection of the Bal
ance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A. 
(d) Refer to Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statem
ents for additional information on forward contracts to sell resi
dential mortgage loans. 
(e) Includes federal funds purchased and borrowings with an original 
maturity of less than one year. For additional information, re
fer to Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
(f) Includes rental commitments. 
(g) Includes low-income housing and historic tax investments. For addit
ional information, refer to Note 11 of the Notes to Consolid
ated Financial Statements. 
(h) Represents agreements to purchase goods or services and includes 
commitments to various general contractors for work related to
 banking center construction. 
(i) Refer to Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial St
atements for additional information on pension obligations. 
(j) Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend, typically 
having fixed expiration dates or
 other termination clauses that 
may require payment of a fee. Many of
 the commitments to extend credit 
may expire without being drawn upon. The total commitment amount
s include capital commitments for private equity investments an
d do not necessarily represent future cash flow requirements. For 
additional information, refer to Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
(k) Letters of credit are conditional commitments issued to guarant
ee the performance of a customer to a third party. For additiona
l information, refer to Note 17 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements. 
   MANAGEMENT™S ASSESSMENT AS TO THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 
 82  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The Bancorp conducted an evaluation, under the supervision and wi
th the participation of the Bancorp™s management, including th
e Bancorp™s 
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effect
iveness of the design and operation of the Bancorp™s disclosu
re controls and 
procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the S
ecurities Exchange Act). Based on the foregoing, as of the e
nd of the period 
covered by this report, the Bancorp™s Chie
f Executive Officer and Chief Financial Offi
cer concluded that the Bancorp™s disclosu
re controls and 
procedures were effective, in all material re
spects, to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports the Ban
corp files and submits 
under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and re
ported as and when required and information is accumulated and 
communicated to management on a timely basis. 
The management of Fifth Third Bancorp is responsible for establis
hing and maintaining adequate in
ternal control, designed to pr
ovide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporti
ng and the preparation of financial statements for external 
purposes in accordance 
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United St
ates of America. The Bancorp™s management assessed the effectiven
ess of the 
Bancorp™s internal control over financial reporting as of Decemb
er 31, 2015. Management™s assessment is based on the criteria e
stablished in the 
Internal Control Š Integrated Framework (2013)
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organi
zations of the Treadway Commission and was 
designed to provide reasonable assurance th
at the Bancorp maintained effective intern
al control over financial reporting as of 
December 31, 2015. 
Based on this assessment, management believes that the Bancorp m
aintained effective internal control over financial reporting a
s of December 31, 
2015. The Bancorp™s independent registered pu
blic accounting firm, that audited the 
Bancorp™s consolidated financial statements
 included in this 
annual report, has issued an audit report on our internal contro
l over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015. This report
 appears on page 83 
of the annual report. 
The Bancorp™s management also conducted an evaluation of internal 
control over financial reporting to determine whether any cha
nges 
occurred during the year covered by this report that have mate
rially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, t
he Bancorp™s internal 
control over financial reporting. Based on this evaluation, there has been no such chan
ge during the year covered by this repor
t.  
Greg D. Carmichael              Tayfun Tuzun 
President and Chief Executive Officer                        
                  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Off
icer 
February 25, 2016                            February 25, 2016 
   
 
 
 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTER
ED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  83  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Fifth Third Bancorp: 
 
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of
 Fifth Third Bancorp and subsidiaries (the ﬁBancorpﬂ) as of Dec
ember 31, 2015, 
based on criteria established in Internal Control Š Inte
grated Framework (2013)
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the 
Treadway Commission. The Bancorp's managemen
t is responsible for maintaining effectiv
e internal control over financial reportin
g and for its 
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financ
ial reporting, included in the accompanying Management™s Assessm
ent as to the 
Effectiveness of Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our re
sponsibility is to express an 
opinion on the Bancorp™s intern
al control over 
financial reporting based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Pu
blic Company Accounting Oversigh
t Board (United States). Those
 standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtai
n reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control ov
er financial 
reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit in
cluded obtaining an understanding of internal control over finan
cial reporting, 
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and 
evaluating the design and operati
ng effectiveness of internal c
ontrol based on the 
assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we consid
ered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit 
provides a 
reasonable basis for our opinion. 
A company™s internal control over financial reporting is a proces
s designed by, or under the supervision of, the company™s prin
cipal executive 
and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar fu
nctions, and effected by the company™s board of directors, ma
nagement, and other 
personnel to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial re
porting and the preparation of financial sta
tements for external 
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting princi
ples. A company™s internal control over financial reporting inc
ludes those policies 
and procedures that (1) pertain to the main
tenance of records that, in reasonable det
ail, accurately and fairly reflect the tra
nsactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable 
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to perm
it preparation of 
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounti
ng principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the com
pany are being 
made only in accordance with authorizations of management and 
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance re
garding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
 acquisition, use, or disposition of the 
company™s assets that could have a mater
ial effect on the 
financial statements.  
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over 
financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or imp
roper management 
override of controls, material misstatements due to error or frau
d may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, pr
ojections of any 
evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over fina
ncial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that
 the controls may 
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that th
e degree of compliance with the po
licies or procedures may deteri
orate. In our opinion, the Bancorp maintained, in 
all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of Dec
ember 31, 2015, 
based on the criteria established in 
Internal ControlŠ Integrated Framework (2013)
 issued by the Committee of S
ponsoring Organizations of the 
Treadway Commission.  
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Pu
blic Company Accounting Oversigh
t Board (United States), the co
nsolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2015 
of the Bancorp and our report dated February 25, 2016 expre
ssed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. 
  Cincinnati, Ohio 
February 25, 2016 To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Fifth Third Bancorp: 
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
 Fifth Third Bancorp and subsidiaries (the ﬁBancorpﬂ) as of Dece
mber 31, 2015 
and 2014, and the related consolidated statements of income, compre
hensive income, equity, and cash flows for each of the three
 years in the 
period ended December 31, 2015. These consolidated financial stat
ements are the responsibility of the Bancorp™s management. Our
 responsibility 
is to express an opinion on these consolidat
ed financial statements based on our audits.  
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the 
Public Company Accounting Oversi
ght Board (United States). Thos
e standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
 reasonable assurance about whet
her the financial statements are 
free of material 
misstatement. An audit includes examining,
 on a test basis, evidence supporting the 
amounts and disclosures in the financial st
atements. An audit 
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and sign
ificant estimates made by manag
ement, as well as evaluating the 
overall financial 
statement presentation. We believe that our audi
ts provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.  
In our opinion, such consolidated financ
ial statements present fairly, in all materi
al respects, the financial position of Fift
h Third Bancorp and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the results of th
eir operations and their cash flows for each of the three y
ears in the period 
ended December 31, 2015, in conformity with accounting principles
 generally accepted in the United States of America.  
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Pu
blic Company Accounting Oversigh
t Board (United States), the Ba
ncorp™s 
internal control over financial reporting as of Decemb
er 31, 2015, based on the criteria established in 
Internal ControlŠIntegrated Framework (2013) 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Trea
dway Commission and our report dated February 25, 2016 expressed
 an 
unqualified opinion on the Bancorp™s inte
rnal control over financial reporting.   Cincinnati, Ohio 

February 25, 2016 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
 84  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 As of December 31 ($ in mi
llions, except share data)
    2015 
2014 
Assets        Cash and due from banks
(a) $  2,540 
 3,091 
Available-for-sale and other securities
(b)    29,044 
 22,408 
Held-to-maturity securities
(c)
    70 
 187 
Trading securities
     386 
 360 
Other short-term investments
     2,671 
 7,914 
Loans held for sale
(d)    903 
 1,261 
Portfolio loans and leases
(a)(e)
    92,582 
 90,084 
Allowance for loan and lease losses
(a)
    (1,272)
 (1,322)
Portfolio loans and leases, net
     91,310 
 88,762 
Bank premises and equipment
(f)
    2,239 
 2,465 
Operating lease equipment
     707 
 728 
Goodwill
     2,416 
 2,416 
Intangible assets
     12 
 15 
Servicing rights
     785 
 858 
Other assets(a)    7,999 
 8,241 
Total Assets
  $  141,082 
 138,706 
Liabilities    Deposits:
        Noninterest-bearing deposits
  $  36,267 
 34,809 
    Interest-bearing deposits
     66,938 
 66,903 
Total deposits
(g)    103,205 
 101,712 
Federal funds purchased
     151 
 144 
Other short-term borrowings
     1,507 
 1,556 
Accrued taxes, interest and expenses
     2,164 
 2,020 
Other liabilities
(a)
    2,341 
 2,642 
Long-term debt
(a)    15,844 
 14,967 
Total Liabilities
  $  125,212 
 123,041 
Equity
    Common stock(h) $  2,051 
 2,051 
Preferred stock(i)
    1,331 
 1,331 
Capital surplus
     2,666 
 2,646 
Retained earnings
     12,358 
 11,141 
Accumulated other comprehensive income
     197 
 429 
Treasury stock(h)
    (2,764)
 (1,972)
Total Bancorp shareholders™ equity
  $  15,839 
 15,626 
Noncontrolling interests
     31 
 39 
Total Equity
     15,870 
 15,665 
Total Liabilities and Equity
  $  141,082 
 138,706 
(a) Includes $152
 and $179 of cash and due from banks, 
$2,537 
and $3,378 of portfolio loans and leases, 
$(28)
 and $(22) of ALLL, 
$20
 and $25 of other assets, 
$3 and $5 of other liabilities 
and $2,493 
and $3,434 of long-term debt from consolidated VIEs that
 are included in their respective captions above at 
December 31, 2015
 and 2014, respectively. For further information, 
refer to Note 11. 
(b) Amortized cost of 
$28,678 
and $21,677 at 
December 31, 2015
 and 2014, respectively. 
(c) Fair value of 
$70 
and $187 at 
December 31, 2015
 and 2014, respectively.  
(d) Includes $519 
and $561 of residential mortgage loans held for sale measured at fair value at 
December 31, 2015
 and 2014, respectively. 
(e) Includes $167 
and $108
 of residential mortgage loans measured at fair value at 
December 31, 2015
 and 2014, respectively. 
(f) Includes $81 and $26 of bank premises and equipment held for sale at 
December 31, 2015 
and 2014, respectively. For further information refer to Note 7. 
(g) Includes $628
 and $0 of deposits held for sale at 
December 31, 2015
 and 2014, respectively. For further information refer to Note 7. 
(h) Common shares: Stated value $2.22 per shar
e; authorized 2,000,000; outstanding at
 December 31, 2015 Œ 785,080,314 
(excludes
 138,812,267 
treasury shares),
 2014 Œ 824,046,952 
(excludes 99,845,629 treasury shares). 
(i) 446,000
 shares of undesignated no par value pref
erred stock are authorized and unissued at
 December 31, 2015 
and 2014; fixed-to-floating rate non-cu
mulative Series H perpetual preferred 
stock with a $25,000 liquidation preference: 
24,000 
authorized shares,
 issued and outstanding at
 December 31, 2015 
and 2014; fixed-to-floating rate non-cumulative Series I perpetual 
preferred stock with a $25,
000 liquidation preference: 
18,000 
authorized shares, issued and outstanding at 
December 31, 2015 
and 2014; and fixed-to-floating rate non-cumulative Series J 
perpetual preferred stock with a 
$25,000 liquidation preference: 
12,000
 authorized shares, issued and outstanding at 
December 31, 2015 
and 2014.
   Refer to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
  85  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 For the years ended December 31 ($
 in millions, except share data)
 2015 
2014 
2013 
Interest Income
    Interest and fees on loans and leases
  $ 3,151 
 3,298 
 3,447 
Interest on securities
   869 
 724 
 520 
Interest on other short-term investments
   8 
 8 
 6 
Total interest income
   4,028 
 4,030 
 3,973 
Interest Expense
  Interest on deposits
   186 
 202 
 202 
Interest on federal funds purchased
   1 
 - 
 - 
Interest on other short-term borrowings
   2 
 2 
 6 
Interest on long-term debt
   306 
 247 
 204 
Total interest expense
   495 
 451 
 412 
Net Interest Income
   3,533 
 3,579 
 3,561 
Provision for loan and lease losses
   396 
 315 
 229 
Net Interest Income After Provision for Loan and Lease Losses
   3,137 
 3,264 
 3,332 
Noninterest Income
  Service charges on deposits
   563 
 560 
 549 
Investment advisory revenue
   418 
 407 
 393 
Corporate banking revenue
   384 
 430 
 400 
Mortgage banking net revenue
   348 
 310 
 700 
Card and processing revenue
   302 
 295 
 272 
Other noninterest income
   979 
 450 
 879 
Securities gains, net
   9 
 21 
 21 
Securities gains, net - non-qualifying hedges on mortgage servicing rights
   - 
 - 
 13 
Total noninterest income
   3,003 
 2,473 
 3,227 
Noninterest Expense
  Salaries, wages and incentives
   1,525 
 1,449 
 1,581 
Employee benefits   323 
 334 
 357 
Net occupancy expense
   321 
 313 
 307 
Technology and communications
   224 
 212 
 204 
Card and processing expense
   153 
 141 
 134 
Equipment expense
   124 
 121 
 114 
Other noninterest expense
   1,105 
 1,139 
 1,264 
Total noninterest expense
   3,775 
 3,709 
 3,961 
Income Before Income Taxes 
   2,365 
 2,028 
 2,598 
Applicable income tax expense 
   659 
 545 
 772 
Net Income 
   1,706 
 1,483 
 1,826 
Less: Net income attributab
le to noncontrolling interests
   (6)
 2 
 (10)
Net Income Attributable to Bancorp
   1,712 
 1,481 
 1,836 
Dividends on preferred stock 
   75 
 67 
 37 
Net Income Available to Common Shareholders 
  $ 1,637 
 1,414 
 1,799 
Earnings per share - basic
  $ 2.03 
 1.68 
 2.05 
Earnings per share - diluted
  $ 2.01 
 1.66 
 2.02 
Average common shares outstanding - basic 
   798,628,173 
 833,116,349 
 869,462,977 
Average common shares outstanding - diluted 
   807,658,669 
 842,967,356 
 894,736,445 
Cash dividends declared per common share 
  $ 0.52 
 0.51 
 0.47 
   Refer to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
 86  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
  2015 
2014 
2013
Net Income
 $ 1,706 
 1,483 
 1,826
Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income, Net of Tax:
          Unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities: 
           Unrealized holding (losses) gains arising during the year 
  (227)
 378 
 (295)
    Reclassification adjustment for net (gai
ns) losses included in net income 
  (10)
 (24)
 4  Unrealized gains on cash flow hedge derivatives: 
           Unrealized holding gains (losses) arising during the year 
  48 
 39 
 (8)
    Reclassification adjustment for ne
t gains included in net income 
  (49)
 (29)
 (29)
  Defined benefit pension plans, net: 
           Net actuarial (loss) gain arising during the year 
  (5)
 (25)
 25
    Reclassification of amounts to net periodic benefit costs 
  11 
 8 
 10
Other comprehensive (loss) income, net of tax 
  (232)
 347 
 (293)
Comprehensive Income
   1,474 
 1,830 
 1,533
  Less: Comprehensive income attrib
utable to noncontrolling interests 
  (6)
 2 
 (10)
Comprehensive Income Attributable to Bancorp
 $ 1,480 
 1,828 
 1,543
        Refer to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
  87  Fifth Third Bancorp 
      Bancorp Shareholders™ Equity
                  Accumulated   Total 
                 Other   Bancorp 
Non- 
       Common PreferredCapital RetainedComprehensive
Treasury 
Shareholders™ 
Controlling
Total 
($ in millions, except per share data)
    Stock Stock Surplus 
Earnings Income  
Stock Equity 
Interests 
Equity 
Balance at December 31, 2012
  $  2,051 
 398 
 2,758 
 8,768 
 375 
 (634)
 13,716 
 48
 13,764 
Net income
     1,836 
 1,836 
 (10)
 1,826 
Other comprehensive loss
     (293)
 (293)
 (293)
Cash dividends declared:
        Common stock at $0.47 per share
     (407)
 (407)
 (407)
    Preferred stock
(a)
    (37)
 (37)
 (37)
Shares acquired for treasury
     (78)
 (1,242)
 (1,320)
 (1,320)
Issuance of preferred stock
     1,034 
 1,034 
 1,034 
Redemption of preferred stock, Series G
     (398)
 (142)
 540 
 - 
 - 
Impact of stock transactions under
        stock compensation plans, net
     22 
 38 
 60 
 60 
Other     1 
 (4)
 3 
 - 
 (1)
 (1)
Balance at December 31, 2013
     2,051 
 1,034 
 2,561 
 10,156 
 82 
 (1,295)
 14,589 
 37
 14,626 
Net income
     1,481 
 1,481 
 2 1,483 
Other comprehensive income
     347 
 347 
 347 
Cash dividends declared:
        Common stock at $0.51 per share
     (427)
 (427)
 (427)
    Preferred stock
(b)
    (67)
 (67)
 (67)
Shares acquired for treasury
     72 
 (726)
 (654)
 (654)
Issuance of preferred stock
     297 
 297 
 297 
Impact of stock transactions under
        stock compensation plans, net
     13 
 47 
 60 
 60 
Other     (2)
 2 
 - 
 - 
Balance at December 31, 2014
     2,051 
 1,331 
 2,646 
 11,141 
 429 
 (1,972)
 15,626 
 39
 15,665 
Net income
     1,712 
 1,712 
 (6)
 1,706 
Other comprehensive loss
     (232)
 (232)
 (232)
Cash dividends declared:
        Common stock at 
$0.52
 per share
     (417)
 (417)
 (417)
    Preferred stock
(c)
    (75)
 (75)
 (75)
Shares acquired for treasury
     (3)
 (847)
 (850)
 (850)
Impact of stock transactions under
        stock compensation plans, net
     23 
 52 
 75 
 75 
Other     (3)
 3 
 - 
 (2)
 (2)
Balance at December 31, 2015
  $  2,051 
 1,331 
 2,666 
 12,358 
 197 
 (2,764)
 15,839 
 31 15,870 
(a) For the year ended December 31, 2013, divi
dends were $1,074.31 per preferred share for Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series G and 
$796.88 per preferred share for Pe
rpetual Preferred Stock, Series 
H. (b) For the year ended December 31, 2014, dividends were $1,275.00 
per preferred share for Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series H, $1,
757.46 per preferred share for Perp
etual Preferred Stock, Series I 
and $391.32 per preferred share for Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series J. 
(c) For the year ended 
December 31, 2015
, dividends were
 $1,275.00
 per preferred share for Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series H, 
$1,656.24
 per preferred share for Perpetual Preferred Stock, 
Series I and $1,225.00 
per preferred share for Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series J. 
 Refer to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
   88  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
  2015 
2014 
2013 
Operating Activities
  Net income  
$ 1,706 
 1,483 
1,826 
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net 
cash provided by operating activities: 
   Provision for loan and lease losses 
  396 
 315 
229 
  Depreciation, amortization and accretion 
  441 
 414 
507 
  Stock-based compensation expense 
  100 
 83 
78 
  (Benefit from) provision for deferred income taxes 
  (71)
 79 
253 
  Securities gains, net 
  (5)
 (21)
(21)
  Securities gains, net - non-qualifying hedges on mortgage servicing rights 
  -   
 -   
(13)
  (Recovery of) provision for MSR impairment 
  (4)
 65 
(192)
  Net gains on sales of loans and fair value adjustments on loans held for sale 
  (98)
 (67)
(622)
  Net losses on disposition and impairment of bank premises and equipment 
  101 
 19 
 6 
  Net losses on disposition and impairment of operating lease equipment 
  33 
 -   
 -   
  Loss on extinguishment of debt 
 -   
 -   
 8 
Proceeds from sales of loans held for sale 
  5,102 
 5,477 
22,047 
Loans originated for sale, net of repayments 
  (5,142)
 (4,874)
(19,003)
Dividends representing return on equity method investments 
  25 
 42 
54 
Gain on sale of Vantiv, Inc. shares 
  (331)
 (125)
 (327)
Gain on the TRA associat
ed with Vantiv, Inc. 
  (31)
 (23)
 (9)
Net change in: 
   Trading securities 
  (34)
 (16)
(131)
  Other assets 
 94 
(221)
(672)
  Accrued taxes, interest and expenses 
  327 
 1 
8   Other liabilities 
  (191)
 (555)
569 
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
   2,418 
 2,076 
4,595 
Investing Activities
  Proceeds from sales:    Available-for-sale and other securities 
  16,828 
 5,234 
9,328 
  Loans   741 
 147 
657 
  Bank premises and equipment 
  37 
 24 
33 
Proceeds from repayments / maturities: 
   Available-for-sale and other securities 
  2,865 
 2,265 
3,191 
  Held-to-maturity securities 
  117 
 20 
74 
Purchases: 
   Available-for-sale and other securities 
  (26,733)
 (10,691)
(16,216)
  Bank premises and equipment 
  (164)
 (216)
(274)
Proceeds from sales and dividends representi
ng return of equity method investments 
  458 
 279 
674 
Net change in: 
   Other short-term investments 
  5,243 
 (2,798)
(2,695)
  Loans and leases 
  (3,238)
 (3,136)
(4,750)
  Operating lease equipment 
  (85)
 (66)
(206)
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities
   (3,931)
 (8,938)
(10,184)
Financing Activities
  Net change in: 
   Deposits 
  1,493 
 2,437 
9,758 
  Federal funds purchased 
  7 
 (140)
(618)
  Other short-term borrowings 
  (49)
 176 
(4,900)
Dividends paid on common stock 
  (422)
 (423)
(393)
Dividends paid on preferred stock 
  (75)
 (67)
(37)
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 
  3,091 
 6,570 
5,044 
Repayment of long-term debt 
  (2,205)
 (1,399)
(2,225)
Repurchases of treasury shares and related forward contracts 
  (850)
 (654)
 (1,320)
Issuance of preferred stock 
  -   
 297 
 1,034 
Other   (28)
 (22)
(17)
Net Cash Provided by Financing Activities
   962 
 6,775 
6,326 
(Decrease) Increase in Cash and Due from Banks
   (551)
 (87)
 737 
Cash and Due from Banks at Beginning of Period
   3,091 
 3,178 
 2,441 
Cash and Due from Banks at End of Period
 $ 2,540 
 3,091 
3,178 
    Refer to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 2 contai
ns cash payments related to interest and income taxes in addi
tion to non-cash investing and financing activities.  
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  89  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING POLICIES 
Nature of Operations 
Fifth Third Bancorp, an Ohio cor
poration, conducts its principal 
lending, deposit gathering, transaction processing and service 

advisory activities through its 
banking and non-banking subsidiaries 
from banking centers located throughout the Midwestern and 
Southeastern regions of the United States. 
 Basis of Presentation The Consolidated Financial Statements
 include the accounts of the 
Bancorp and its majority-owned su
bsidiaries and VIEs in which the 
Bancorp has been determined to be the primary beneficiary. Other 

entities, including certain joint ventures, in which the Bancorp has 
the ability to exercise significan
t influence over operating and 
financial policies of the investee, but upon which the Bancorp does 

not possess control, are accounted for by the equity method of 

accounting and not consolidated. The investments in those entities 

in which the Bancorp does not have the ability to exercise 

significant influence are generally carried at the lower of cost or fair 

value. Intercompany transactions and balances have been 

eliminated. 
 Use of Estimates 
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. 

GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions 

that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and 

accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those 

estimates.  Cash and Due From Banks 
Cash and due from banks consist of currency and coin, cash items 
in the process of collection and due from banks. Currency and coin 

includes both U.S. and foreign currency owned and held at Fifth 

Third offices and that is in-transit
 to the FRB. Cash items in the 
process of collection include checks and drafts that are drawn on 

another depository institution or the FRB that are payable 

immediately upon presentation in the U.S. Balances due from banks 
include noninterest-bearing balances that are funds on deposit at 
other depository institutions or the FRB. 
 Securities 
Securities are classified as held-to-maturity, available-for-sale or 

trading on the date of purchase. Only those securities which 

management has the intent and ability to hold to maturity are 

classified as held-to-maturity and reported at amortized cost. 
Securities are classified as avail
able-for-sale when, in management™s 
judgment, they may be sold in response to, or in anticipation of, 

changes in market conditions. Secu
rities are classified as trading 
when bought and held principally 
for the purpose of selling them in 
the near term. Available-for-sale secu
rities are reported at fair value 
with unrealized gains and losses, net of related deferred income 

taxes, included in OCI. Trading s
ecurities are reported at fair value 
with unrealized gains and losses 
included in noninterest income. 
The fair value of a security is determined based on quoted market 
prices. If quoted market prices are not available, fair value is 

determined based on quoted prices of similar instruments or DCF 

models that incorporate market 
inputs and assumptions including 
discount rates, prepayment speeds 
and loss rates. Realized securities 
gains or losses are reported within noninterest income in the 

Consolidated Statements of Income. 
The cost of securities sold is 
based on the specific identification method. 
Available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities with 
unrealized losses are reviewed quarterly for possible OTTI. For debt 

securities, if the Bancorp intends 
to sell the debt security or will 
more likely than not be required to sell the debt security before 
recovery of the entire amortized cost basis, then an OTTI has 

occurred. However, even if the Bancorp does not intend to sell the 

debt security and will not likely be required to sell the debt security 
before recovery of its entire amortized cost basis, the Bancorp must 
evaluate expected cash flows to be received and determine if a credit 

loss has occurred. In the event of a credit loss, the credit 

component of the impairment is recognized within noninterest 

income and the non-credit component is recognized through OCI. 

For equity securities, the Banc
orp™s management evaluates the 
securities in an unrealized loss
 position in the available-for-sale 
portfolio for OTTI on the basis of the duration of the decline in 
value of the security and severity
 of that decline as well as the 
Bancorp™s intent and ability to hold 
these securities for a period of 
time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in the market 

value. If it is determined that th
e impairment on an equity security is 
other-than-temporary, an impair
ment loss equal to the difference 
between the amortized cost of the 
security and its fair value is 
recognized within noninterest income. 
 Portfolio Loans and Leases 
Basis of Accounting 
Portfolio loans and leases are ge
nerally reported at the principal 
amount outstanding, net of unearned income, deferred loan fees 

and costs and any direct princi
pal charge-offs. Direct loan 
origination fees and costs are deferred and the net amount is 

amortized over the estimated life of the related loans as a yield 

adjustment. Interest income is r
ecognized based on the principal 
balance outstanding computed using the effective interest method. Loans acquired by the Bancorp through a purchase business 
combination are recorded at fair value as of the acquisition date. 

The Bancorp does not carry over the acquired company™s ALLL, 

nor does the Bancorp add to its existing ALLL as part of purchase 

accounting. Purchased loans are evaluated for evidence of credit 
deterioration at acquisition and recorded at their initial fair value. 
For loans acquired with no evidence of credit deterioration, the fair 
value discount or premium is amortized over the contractual life of 

the loan as an adjustment to yiel
d. For loans acquired with evidence 
of credit deterioration, the Bancorp determines at the acquisition 

date the excess of the loan™s cont
ractually required payments over all 
cash flows expected to be collected 
as an amount that should not be 
accreted into interest income (nonaccretable difference). The 

remaining amount representing the 
difference in the expected cash 
flows of acquired loans and the 
initial investment in the acquired 
loans is accreted into interest in
come over the remaining life of the 
loan or pool of loans (accretable yield). Subsequent to the 

acquisition date, increases in ex
pected cash flows over those 
expected at the acquisition date are recognized prospectively as 

interest income over the remaining life of the loan. The present 

value of any decreases in expected 
cash flows resulting directly from 
a change in the contractual interest rate are recognized prospectively 
as a reduction of the accretable yield. The present value of any 
decreases in expected cash flows af
ter the acquisition date as a result 
of credit deterioration is recognized by recording an ALLL or a 

direct charge-off. Subsequent to the purchase date, the methods 

utilized to estimate the required ALLL are similar to originated 

loans. Loans carried at fair value,
 residential mortgage loans held for 
sale and loans under revolving cred
it agreements are excluded from 
the scope of this guidance on loans acquired with deteriorated credit 
quality. 
The Bancorp™s lease portfolio consists of both direct financing 
and leveraged leases. Direct financing leases are carried at the 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  90  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 aggregate of lease payments plus estimated residual value of the 
leased property, less unearned income. Interest income on direct 

financing leases is recognized over the term of the lease to achieve a 

constant periodic rate of retu
rn on the outstanding investment. 
Leveraged leases are carried at the aggregate of lease payments 
(less nonrecourse debt payments) plus estimated residual value of 

the leased property, less unearned income. Interest income on 

leveraged leases is recognized over the term of the lease to achieve a 

constant rate of return on the outstanding investment in the lease, 

net of the related deferred income ta
x liability, in the years in which 
the net investment is positive. 
 Nonaccrual Loans and Leases 
When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, the accrual of interest, 

amortization of loan premium, a
ccretion of loan discount and 
amortization/accretion of deferred net loan fees are discontinued 

and all previously accrued and unp
aid interest is charged against 
income. Commercial loans are pla
ced on nonaccrual status when 
there is a clear indication that the borrower™s cash flows may not be 

sufficient to meet payments as they 
become due. Such loans are also 
placed on nonaccrual status when the principal or interest is past 
due 90 days or more, unless the loan is both well-secured and in the 

process of collection. The Bancor
p classifies residential mortgage 
loans that have principal and in
terest payments that have become 
past due 150 days as nonaccrual un
less the loan is both well-secured 
and in the process of collection. Residential mortgage loans may 

stay on nonperforming status for an extended time as the 

foreclosure process typically lasts longer than 180 days. Home 
equity loans and lines of credit are reported on nonaccrual status if 
principal or interest has been in default for 90 days or more unless 

the loan is both well-secured and in the process of collection. Home 

equity loans and lines of credit that have been in default for 60 days 

or more are also reported on nonaccrual status if the senior lien has 

been in default 120 days or more, unless the loan is both well 

secured and in the process of 
collection. Residential mortgage, 
home equity, automobile and other 
consumer loans and leases that 
have been modified in a TDR and 
subsequently become past due 90 
days are placed on nonaccrual status unless the loan is both well-

secured and in the process of collection. Commercial and credit card 

loans that have been modified in 
a TDR are classified as nonaccrual 
unless such loans have sustained repayment performance of six 

months or more and are reasonably assured of repayment in 

accordance with the restructured terms. Well-secured loans are 

collateralized by perfected security interests in real and/or personal 
property for which the Bancorp estimates proceeds from the sale 
would be sufficient to recover the 
outstanding principal and accrued interest balance of the loan and pa
y all costs to sell the collateral. 
The Bancorp considers a loan in the process of collection if 

collection efforts or legal action is proceeding and the Bancorp 

expects to collect funds sufficien
t to bring the loan current or 
recover the entire outstanding 
principal and accrued interest 
balance. Nonaccrual commercial loans and nonaccrual credit card loans 
are generally accounted for on the cost recovery method. The 

Bancorp believes the cost recovery method is appropriate for 

nonaccrual commercial loans and nonaccrual credit card loans 

because the assessment of collectability of the remaining recorded 

investment of these loans involves 
a high degree of subjectivity and 
uncertainty due to the nature or 
absence of underlying collateral. 
Under the cost recovery method, any payments received are applied 
to reduce principal. Once the entire recorded investment is 
collected, additional payments received are treated as recoveries of 

amounts previously charged-off un
til recovered in full, and any 
subsequent payments are treated 
as interest income. Nonaccrual 
residential mortgage loans and other nonaccrual consumer loans are 
generally accounted for on the cash basis method. The Bancorp 
believes the cash basis method is appropriate for nonaccrual 

residential mortgage and other nonaccrual consumer loans because 

such loans have generally been wr
itten down to estimated collateral 
values and the collectability of th
e remaining investment involves 
only an assessment of the fair valu
e of the underlying collateral, 
which can be measured more objectively with a lesser degree of 

uncertainty than assessments of 
typical commercial loan collateral. 
Under the cash basis method, interest income is recognized upon 

cash receipt to the extent to which it would have been accrued on 

the loan™s remaining balance at the contractual rate. Nonaccrual 

loans may be returned to accrual st
atus when all delinquent interest 
and principal payments become current
 in accordance with the loan 
agreement and are reasonably assured of repayment in accordance 

with the contractual terms of the loan agreement, or when the loan 

is both well-secured and in the process of collection. 
Commercial loans on nonaccrual status, including those 
modified in a TDR, as well as
 criticized commercial loans with 
aggregate borrower relationships ex
ceeding $1 million, are subject to 
an individual review to identify 
charge-offs. The Bancorp does not 
have an established delinquency 
threshold for partially or fully 
charging off commercial loans. Re
sidential mortgage loans, home 
equity loans and lines of credit 
and credit card loans that have 
principal and interest payments that have become past due 180 days 

are assessed for a charge-off to the ALLL, unless such loans are 

both well-secured and in the process of collection. Home equity 

loans and lines of credit are als
o assessed for charge-off to the 
ALLL when such loans or lines of 
credit have become past due 120 
days if the senior lien is also 120 da
ys past due, unless such loans are 
both well-secured and in the process of collection. Automobile and 

other consumer loans and leases th
at have principal and interest 
payments that have become past due 120 days are assessed for a 

charge-off to the ALLL, unless such
 loans are both well-secured and 
in the process of collection. 

 
Restructured Loans and Leases 
A loan is accounted for as a TDR if the Bancorp, for economic or 
legal reasons related to the borrowe
r™s financial difficulties, grants a 
concession to the borrower that it would not otherwise consider. A 

TDR typically involves a modificati
on of terms such as a reduction 
of the stated interest rate or rem
aining principal amount of the loan, 
a reduction of accrued interest or 
an extension of the maturity date 
at a stated interest rate lower than the current market rate for a new 

loan with similar risk. In 2012, the OCC, a national bank regulatory 
agency, issued interpretive guid
ance that requires non-reaffirmed 
loans included in Chapter 7 bankruptcy filings to be accounted for 

as nonperforming TDRs and collateral dependent loans regardless 

of their payment history and capaci
ty to pay in the future. The 
Bancorp™s banking subsidiary is a state chartered bank which 

therefore is not subject to guidance of the OCC. The Bancorp does 

not consider the bankruptcy court™s discharge of the borrower™s 

debt a concession when the discharged debt is not reaffirmed and as 
such, these loans are classified as TDRs only if one or more of the 
previously mentioned concessions are granted. 
The Bancorp measures the impairment loss of a TDR based on 
the difference between the original loan™s carrying amount and the 

present value of expected future
 cash flows discounted at the 
original, effective yield of the loan. Residential mortgage loans, 

home equity loans, automobile 
loans and other consumer loans 
modified as part of a TDR are maintained on accrual status, 
provided there is reasonable assurance of repayment and of 
performance according to the modified terms based upon a current, 

well-documented credit evaluati
on. Commercial loans and credit 
card loans modified as part of a TDR are maintained on accrual 

status provided there is a sustained payment history of six months 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  91  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 or more prior to the modification in accordance with the modified 
terms and all remaining contractual payments under the 

modified terms are reasonably a
ssured of collection. TDRs of 
commercial loans and credit cards that do not have a sustained 

payment history of six months or more in accordance with their 

modified terms remain on nonaccrual status until a six month 
payment history is sustained. In certain cases, commercial TDRs on 
nonaccrual status may be accounted for using the cash basis method 

for income recognition, provided that full repayment of principal 

under the modified terms of the loan is reasonably assured. 

 
Impaired Loans and Leases 

A loan is considered to be impaired when, based on current 

information and events, it is probable that the Bancorp will be 
unable to collect all amounts due (including both principal and 
interest) according to the contract
ual terms of the loan agreement. 
Impaired loans generally consist of nonaccrual loans and leases, 

loans modified in a TDR and loans over $1 million that are 

currently on accrual status and not yet modified in a TDR, but for 

which the Bancorp has determined that it is probable that it will 

grant a payment concession in the near term due to the borrower™s 

financial difficulties. For loans modified in a TDR, the contractual 
terms of the loan agreement refer to the terms specified in the 
original loan agreement. A loan rest
ructured in a TDR is no longer 
considered impaired in years 
after the restructuring if the 
restructuring agreement specifies a rate equal to or greater than the 

rate the Bancorp was willing to accept at the time of the 

restructuring for a new loan with 
comparable risk and the loan is 
not impaired based on the terms specified by the restructuring 

agreement. Refer to the ALLL section for discussion regarding the 
Bancorp™s methodology for identifying impaired loans and 
determination of the need for a loss accrual. 
 Loans Held for Sale 
Loans held for sale primarily re
present conforming fixed-rate 
residential mortgage loans originated
 or acquired with the intent to 
sell in the secondary market and 
jumbo residential mortgage loans, 
commercial loans, other residential mortgage loans and other 
consumer loans that management ha
s the intent to sell. Loans held 
for sale may be carried at the lower of
 cost or fair value, or carried at 
fair value where the Bancorp has 
elected the fair value option of 
accounting under U.S. GAAP. The 
Bancorp has elected to measure 
certain residential mortgage loans or
iginated as held for sale under 
the fair value option. For loans in which the Bancorp has not 

elected the fair value option, the lower of cost or fair value is 

determined at the individual loan level. 
The fair value of residential mortgage loans held for sale for 
which the fair value election has b
een made is estimated based upon 
mortgage-backed securities prices and spreads to those prices or, for 

certain ARM loans, DCF models that may incorporate the 

anticipated portfolio composition, 
credit spreads of asset-backed 
securities with similar collateral, and market conditions. The 

anticipated portfolio composition includes the effects of interest 

rate spreads and discount rates due to loan characteristics such as 
the state in which the loan was or
iginated, the loan amount and the 
ARM margin. These fair value marks are recorded as a component 

of noninterest income in mortgage banking net revenue. The 

Bancorp generally has commitments to sell residential mortgage 

loans held for sale in the secondary market. Gains or losses on sales 

are recognized in mortgage banking net revenue. 
Management™s intent to sell residential mortgage loans 
classified as held for sale may change over time due to such factors 
as changes in the overall liquidity in markets or changes in 
characteristics specific to certain 
loans held for sale. Consequently, 
these loans may be reclassified to
 loans held for investment and, 
thereafter, reported within the Ba
ncorp™s residential mortgage class 
of portfolio loans and leases. In such cases, the residential mortgage 

loans will continue to be measured at
 fair value, which is based on 
mortgage-backed securities prices, in
terest rate risk and an internally 
developed credit component. 
Loans held for sale are placed
 on nonaccrual status consistent 
with the Bancorp™s nonaccrual poli
cy for portfolio loans and leases.  Other Real Estate Owned 
OREO, which is included in other assets, represents property 

acquired through foreclosure or ot
her proceedings and is carried at 
the lower of cost or fair value, less costs to sell. All OREO property 

is periodically evaluated for imp
airment and decreases in carrying 
value are recognized as reductions
 in other noninterest income in 
the Consolidated Statements 
of Income. For government-
guaranteed mortgage loans, upon foreclosure, a separate other 

receivable is recognized if certain 
conditions are met for the amount 
of the loan balance (principal and in
terest) expected to be recovered 
from the guarantor. This receivable 
is also included in other assets, 
separate from OREO, in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
 ALLL 
The Bancorp disaggregates its por
tfolio loans and leases into 
portfolio segments for purposes of determining the ALLL. The 

Bancorp™s portfolio segments include commercial, residential 

mortgage and consumer. The Banc
orp further disaggregates its 
portfolio segments into classes for purposes of monitoring and 

assessing credit quality based on certain risk characteristics. Classes 

within the commercial portfolio 
segment include commercial and 
industrial, commercial mortgage owner-occupied, commercial 
mortgage nonowner-occupied, commercial construction and 

commercial leasing. The residential 
mortgage portfolio segment is 
also considered a class. Classes within the consumer portfolio 

segment include home equity, automobile, credit card and other 

consumer loans and leases. For an
 analysis of the Bancorp™s ALLL 
by portfolio segment and credit quality information by class, refer to 

Note 6. The Bancorp maintains the ALLL to absorb probable loan and 
lease losses inherent in its portfolio segments. The ALLL is 

maintained at a level the Bancorp considers to be adequate and is 

based on ongoing quarterly assessments and evaluations of the 

collectability and historical loss experience of loans and leases. 

Credit losses are charged and recoveries are credited to the ALLL. 

Provisions for loan and lease losses are based on the Bancorp™s 

review of the historical credit lo
ss experience and such factors that, 
in management™s judgment, deserve consideration under existing 
economic conditions in estimating probable credit losses. The 

Bancorp™s strategy for credit risk management includes a 

combination of conservative exposure limits significantly below 

legal lending limits and conserva
tive underwriting, documentation 
and collections standards. The strategy also emphasizes 

diversification on a geographic, indu
stry and customer level, regular 
credit examinations and quarte
rly management reviews of large 
credit exposures and loans experi
encing deterioration of credit 
quality. 
The Bancorp™s methodology for determining the ALLL is 
based on historical loss rates, current credit grades, specific 

allocation on loans modified in a TDR and impaired commercial 

credits above specified thresholds and other qualitative adjustments. 

Allowances on individual commerc
ial loans, TDRs and historical 
loss rates are reviewed quarterly and adjusted as necessary based on 
changing borrower and/or collat
eral conditions and actual 
collection and charge-off experience. An unallocated allowance is 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  92  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 maintained to recognize the imprecision in estimating and 
measuring losses when evaluating allowances for individual loans or 

pools of loans. 
Larger commercial loans included
 within aggregate borrower 
relationship balances exceeding $1 
million that exhibit probable or 
observed credit weaknesses, as well as loans that have been 

modified in a TDR, are subject to
 individual review for impairment. 
The Bancorp considers the current value of collateral, credit quality 

of any guarantees, the guaranto
r™s liquidity and willingness to 
cooperate, the loan structure and other factors when evaluating 

whether an individual loan is impaired. Other factors may include 

the industry and geographic region of the borrower, size and 
financial condition of the borrower, cash flow and leverage of the 
borrower and the Bancorp™s evaluation of the borrower™s 

management. When individual lo
ans are impaired, allowances are 
determined based on management™s estimate of the borrower™s 

ability to repay the loan given the availability of collateral and other 

sources of cash flow, as well as an evaluation of legal options 

available to the Bancorp. Allo
wances for impaired loans are 
measured based on the present value 
of expected future cash flows 
discounted at the loan™s effective interest rate, fair value of the 
underlying collateral or readily obs
ervable secondary market values. 
The Bancorp evaluates the collectability of both principal and 

interest when assessing the need for a loss accrual. 
Historical credit loss rates are 
applied to commercial loans that 
are not impaired or are impaired
, but smaller than the established 
threshold of $1 million and thus not subject to specific allowance 

allocations. The loss rates are derived from a migration analysis, 
which tracks the historical net charge-off experience sustained on 
loans according to their internal risk grade. The risk grading system 

utilized for allowance analysis purpos
es encompasses ten categories. Homogenous loans and leases in the residential mortgage and 
consumer portfolio segments are not individually risk graded. 

Rather, standard credit scoring systems and delinquency monitoring 

are used to assess credit risks an
d allowances are established based 
on the expected net charge-offs. Lo
ss rates are based on the trailing  
twelve month net charge-off history by loan category. Historical loss 
rates may be adjusted for certain pr
escriptive and qualitative factors 
that, in management™s judgment, are necessary to reflect losses 

inherent in the portfolio. Factors that management considers in the 

analysis include the effects of the national and local economies; 

trends in the nature and volume 
of delinquencies, charge-offs and 
nonaccrual loans; changes in loan mix; credit score migration 

comparisons; asset quality trends
; risk management and loan 
administration; changes in the in
ternal lending policies and credit 
standards; collection practices; an
d examination results from bank 
regulatory agencies and the Bancorp™s internal credit reviewers. 
The Bancorp™s primary market areas for lending are the 
Midwestern and Southeastern regi
ons of the United States. When 
evaluating the adequacy of allowances, consideration is given to 

these regional geographic concentrations and the closely associated 

effect changing economic conditions have on the Bancorp™s 
customers. In the current year, the Bancor
p has not substantively changed 
any material aspect to its overall approach to determining its ALLL 

for any of its portfolio segments. There have been no material 

changes in criteria or estimation techniques as compared to prior 

periods that impacted the determination of the current period 

ALLL for any of the Bancorp™s portfolio segments. 
 Reserve for Unfunded Commitments 
The reserve for unfunded commitmen
ts is maintained at a level 
believed by management to be sufficient to absorb estimated 

probable losses related to unfunded credit facilities and is included 

in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The 
determination of the adequacy of the reserve is based upon an 
evaluation of the unfunded credit facilities, including an assessment 

of historical commitment utilization 
experience, credit risk grading 
and historical loss rates based on credit grade migration. This 
process takes into consideration the same risk elements that are 
analyzed in the determination of the adequacy of the Bancorp™s 

ALLL, as previously discussed. Net
 adjustments to the reserve for 
unfunded commitments are included in other noninterest expense 

in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
 Loan Sales and Securitizations 
The Bancorp periodically sells loan
s through either securitizations 
or individual loan sales in acco
rdance with its investment policies. 
The sold loans are removed from th
e balance sheet and a net gain or loss is recognized in the Consolid
ated Financial Statements at the 
time of sale. The Bancorp typically isolates the loans through the 

use of a VIE and thus is required to assess whether the entity 

holding the sold or securitized loans is a VIE and whether the 

Bancorp is the primary beneficiary and therefore consolidator of 

that VIE. If the Bancorp holds the 
power to direct activities most 
significant to the economic performance of the VIE and has the 
obligation to absorb losses or right to receive benefits that could 

potentially be significant to the VI
E, then the Bancorp will generally 
be deemed the primary beneficiary of the VIE. If the Bancorp is 

determined not to be the primary beneficiary of a VIE but holds a 

variable interest in the entity, su
ch variable interests are accounted 
for under the equity method of accounting or other accounting 

standards as appropriate. Refer to
 Note 11 for further information 
on consolidated and non-consolidated VIEs. 
The Bancorp™s loan sales and 
securitizations are generally 
structured with servicing retained. As a result, servicing rights 

resulting from residential mortgage loan sales are initially recorded 

at fair value and subsequently amortized in proportion to and over 

the period of estimated net servicing revenues and are reported as a 

component of mortgage banking net revenue in the Consolidated 

Statements of Income. Servicing rights are assessed for impairment 
monthly, based on fair value, with temporary impairment 
recognized through a valuation 
allowance and other-than-temporary 
impairment recognized through a wr
ite-off of the servicing asset 
and related valuation allowance. Key economic assumptions used in 

measuring any potential impairment of
 the servicing rights include 
the prepayment speeds of the underlying loans, the weighted-

average life, the discount rate and the weighted-average coupon, as 

applicable. The primary risk of material changes to the value of the 
servicing rights resides in the 
potential volatility in the economic 
assumptions used, particularly th
e prepayment speeds. The Bancorp 
monitors risk and adjusts its valuation allowance as necessary to 

adequately reserve for impairment in the servicing portfolio. For 

purposes of measuring impairment,
 the mortgage servicing rights 
are stratified into classes based on the financial asset type (fixed-rate 

vs. adjustable-rate) and interest ra
tes. Fees received for servicing 
loans owned by investors are based on a percentage of the 
outstanding monthly principal 
balance of such loans and are 
included in noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements of 

Income as loan payments are received. Costs of servicing loans are 

charged to expense as incurred. 
 Reserve for Representation and Warranty Provisions 
Conforming residential mortgage loans sold to unrelated third 

parties are generally sold with representation and warranty 
provisions. A contractual liability aris
es only in the event of a breach 
of these representations and warranties and, in general, only when a 

loss results from the breach. The Bancorp may be required to 

repurchase any previously sold loan or indemnify (make whole) the 

investor or insurer for which the representation or warranty of the 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  93  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Bancorp proves to be inaccurate, incomplete or misleading. The 
Bancorp establishes a residential mortgage repurchase reserve 
related to various representati
ons and warranties that reflects 
management™s estimate of losses base
d on a combination of factors. 
The Bancorp™s estimation process requires management to 
make subjective and complex judg
ments about matters that are 
inherently uncertain, such as futu
re demand expectations, economic 
factors and the specific characteristics of the loans subject to 

repurchase. Such factors incorpor
ate historical investor audit and 
repurchase demand rates, appeals success rates, historical loss 

severity and any additional information obtained from the GSEs 

regarding future mortgage repurchase
 and file request criteria. At the 
time of a loan sale, the Bancorp records a representation and 

warranty reserve at the estimated fair value of the Bancorp™s 
guarantee and continually updates the reserve during the life of the 
loan as losses in excess of the reserve become probable and 

reasonably estimable. The provision 
for the estimated fair value of 
the representation and warranty guarantee arising from the loan 

sales is recorded as an adjustmen
t to the gain on sale, which is 
included in other noninterest income at the time of sale. Updates to 

the reserve are recorded in other noninterest expense. 
 Legal Contingencies 
The Bancorp and its subsidiaries are parties to numerous claims and 

lawsuits as well as threatened or potential actions or claims 

concerning matters arising from the conduct of its business 

activities. The outcome of claims or litigation and the timing of 

ultimate resolution are inherently difficult to predict and significant 

judgment may be required in the determination of both the 

probability of loss and whether the amount of the loss is reasonably 
estimable. The Bancorp™s estimate
s are subjective and are based on 
the status of legal and regulatory proceedings, the merit of the 

Bancorp™s defenses and consultation with internal and external legal 

counsel. An accrual for a potential 
litigation loss is established when 
information related to the loss contingency indicates both that a loss 

is probable and that the amount of 
loss can be reasonably estimated. 
This accrual is included in other liabilities in the Consolidated 

Balance Sheets and is adjusted from time to time as appropriate to 
reflect changes in circumstances. Legal expenses are recorded in 
other noninterest expense in the Consolidated Statements of 

Income.  Bank Premises and Equipment and Other Long-Lived 
Assets Bank premises and equipment, including leasehold improvements, 

are carried at cost less accumulat
ed depreciation and amortization. 
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method based on 
estimated useful lives of the assets for book purposes, while 

accelerated depreciation is used for income tax purposes. 

Amortization of leasehold improvements is computed using the 

straight-line method over the lives 
of the related leases or useful 
lives of the related assets, whichever is shorter. Whenever events or 

changes in circumstances dictate, the Bancorp tests its long-lived 

assets for impairment by determining whether the sum of the 
estimated undiscounted future cash 
flows attributable to a long-lived 
asset or asset group is less than the carrying amount of the long-

lived asset or asset group through a probability-weighted 

approach. In the event the carrying
 amount of the long-lived asset 
or asset group is not recoverable,
 an impairment loss is measured as 
the amount by which the carrying am
ount of the long-lived asset or 
asset group exceeds its fair value.
 Maintenance, repairs and minor 
improvements are charged to noninterest expense in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income as incurred. 
 Derivative Financial Instruments 
The Bancorp accounts for its derivati
ves as either assets or liabilities 
measured at fair value through adjustments to AOCI and/or current 

earnings, as appropriate. On the 
date the Bancorp enters into a 
derivative contract, the Bancorp designates the derivative 

instrument as either a fair value he
dge, cash flow hedge or as a free-
standing derivative instrument. Fo
r a fair value hedge, changes in 
the fair value of the derivative 
instrument and changes in the fair 
value of the hedged asset or liability attributable to the hedged risk 

are recorded in current period net income. For a cash flow hedge, 

changes in the fair value of the de
rivative instrument, to the extent 
that it is effective, are recorded in AOCI and subsequently 

reclassified to net income in the same period(s) that the hedged 

transaction impacts net income. For free-standing derivative 
instruments, changes in fair values are reported in current period net 
income. Prior to entering into a hedge transaction, the Bancorp 
formally documents the relationship between the hedging 

instrument and the hedged item, as well as the risk management 

objective and strategy for undertaking the hedge transaction. This 

process includes linking the derivative instrument designated as a 

fair value or cash flow hedge to a specific asset or liability on the 
balance sheet or to specific forecasted transactions and the risk 
being hedged, along with a formal assessment at both inception of 

the hedge and on an ongoing basis as to the effectiveness of the 

derivative instrument in offsetting 
changes in fair values or cash 
flows of the hedged item. If it is determined that the derivative 

instrument is not highly effective 
as a hedge, hedge accounting is 
discontinued.  Income Taxes The Bancorp estimates income tax expense based on amounts 
expected to be owed to the vari
ous tax jurisdictions in which the 
Bancorp conducts business. On 
a quarterly basis, management 
assesses the reasonableness of its e
ffective tax rate based upon its 
current estimate of the amount and components of net income, tax 

credits and the applicable statutor
y tax rates expected for the full 
year. The estimated income tax expense is recorded in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are determined using 
the balance sheet method and the net deferred tax asset or liability 

by taxing jurisdiction is reported in other assets or accrued taxes, 

interest and expenses in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Under 

this method, the net deferred tax asset or liability is based on the tax 

effects of the differences between the book and tax basis of assets 

and liabilities and reflects enacted changes in tax rates and laws. 
Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent they exist and are 
subject to a valuation allowanc
e based on management™s judgment that realization is more likely than not. This analysis is performed on 

a quarterly basis and includes an evaluation of all positive and 

negative evidence, such as the limitation on the use of any net 

operating losses, to determine wh
ether realization is more likely 
than not. 
Accrued taxes represent the net estimated amount due to 
taxing jurisdictions and are reported
 in accrued taxes, interest and 
expenses in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Bancorp 

evaluates and assesses the relative risks and appropriate tax 

treatment of transactions and f
iling positions after considering 
statutes, regulations, judicial precedent and other information and 

maintains tax accruals consistent wi
th its evaluation of these relative 
risks and merits. Changes to the 
estimate of accrued taxes occur 
periodically due to changes in tax rates, interpretations of tax laws, 
the status of examinations being conducted by taxing authorities 
and changes to statutory, judic
ial and regulatory guidance that 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  94  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 impact the relative risks of tax po
sitions. These changes, when they 
occur, can affect deferred taxes an
d accrued taxes as well as the 
current period™s income tax expense and can be significant to the 

operating results of the Bancorp. Any interest and penalties incurred 
in connection with income taxes are recorded as a component of 
income tax expense in the Consolidated Financial Statements. For 

additional information on income taxes, refer to Note 20. 
 Earnings Per Share 
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income 

available to common shareholders by the weighted-average number 

of shares of common stock outstand
ing during the period. Earnings 
per diluted share is computed by dividing adjusted net income 
available to common shareholders by the weighted-average number 

of shares of common stock and common stock equivalents 

outstanding during the period. D
ilutive common stock equivalents 
represent the assumed conversion of
 dilutive convertible preferred 
stock, the exercise of dilutive 
stock-based awards and warrants and 
the dilutive effect of the settlement of outstanding forward 

contracts. 
The Bancorp calculates earnings per share pursuant to the two-
class method. The two-class method is an earnings allocation 

formula that determines earnings
 per share separately for common 
stock and participating securities according to dividends declared 

and participation rights in undist
ributed earnings. For purposes of 
calculating earnings per share under the two-class method, restricted 

shares that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends are considered 

participating securities until vested. While the dividends declared per 
share on such restricted shares ar
e the same as dividends declared 
per common share outstanding, the dividends recognized on such 

restricted shares may be less because dividends paid on restricted 

shares that are expected to be forfeited are reclassified to 

compensation expense during the 
period when forfeiture is 
expected. 
  Goodwill 
Business combinations entered into 
by the Bancorp typically include 
the acquisition of goodwill. Goodwill is required to be tested for 

impairment at the Bancorp™s reporting unit level on an annual basis, 

which for the Bancorp is September 30, and more frequently if 

events or circumstances indicate 
that there may be impairment. The 
Bancorp has determined that its segments qualify as reporting units 

under U.S. GAAP. 
Impairment exists when a report
ing unit™s carrying amount of 
goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. In testing goodwill for 
impairment, U.S. GAAP permits the Bancorp to first assess 

qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not 

that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. 

In this qualitative assessment, 
the Bancorp evaluates events and 
circumstances which may include, bu
t are not limited to, the general 
economic environment, banking industry and market conditions, 

the overall financial performance of the Bancorp, the performance 
of the Bancorp™s common stock, the key financial performance 
metrics of the Bancorp™s reporting units and events affecting the 

reporting units. If, after assessing the totality of events and 

circumstances, the Bancorp determines it is not more likely than not 

that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, 

then performing the two-step impairment test would be 

unnecessary. However, if the Bancorp concludes otherwise or elects 

to bypass the qualitative assessment,
 it would then be required to 
perform the first step (Step 1) of the goodwill impairment test, and 
continue to the second step (Step 2), if necessary. Step 1 of the 

goodwill impairment test compares the fair value of a reporting unit 

with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount 

of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, Step 2 of the goodwill 
impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment 
loss, if any. The fair value of a reporting unit is the price that would be 
received to sell the unit as a whole in an orderly transaction between 
market participants at the measurement date. As none of the 
Bancorp™s reporting units are publicly traded, individual reporting 

unit fair value determinations cannot be directly correlated to the 

Bancorp™s stock price. To determine the fair value of a reporting 

unit, the Bancorp employs an income-based approach, utilizing the 

reporting unit™s forecasted cash 
flows (including a terminal value 
approach to estimate cash flows beyond the final year of the 

forecast) and the reporting unit™s 
estimated cost of equity as the 
discount rate. Additionally, the 
Bancorp determines its market 
capitalization based on the average of the closing price of the 

Bancorp™s stock during the month including the measurement date, 

incorporating an additional cont
rol premium, and compares this 
market-based fair value measuremen
t to the aggregate fair value of 
the Bancorp™s reporting units in order to corroborate the results of 

the income approach. 
When required to perform Step 2, the Bancorp compares the 
implied fair value of a reporting unit™s goodwill with the carrying 
amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount exceeds the implied 

fair value, an impairment loss e
qual to that excess amount is 
recognized. A recognized impairment loss cannot exceed the 

carrying amount of that goodwill and cannot be reversed in future 

periods even if the fair value of the reporting unit subsequently 

recovers. During Step 2, the Bancorp determines the implied fair value 
of goodwill for a reporting unit by assigning the fair value of the 
reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit (including 

any unrecognized intangible assets) 
as if the reporting unit had been 
acquired in a business combination. The excess of the fair value of 

the reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and 

liabilities is the implied fair v
alue of goodwill. This assignment 
process is only performed for purposes of testing goodwill for 

impairment. The Bancorp does not adjust the carrying values of 
recognized assets or liabilities (oth
er than goodwill, if appropriate), 
nor does it recognize previously un
recognized intangible assets in 
the Consolidated Financial Statements as a result of this assignment 

process. Refer to Note 9 for further information regarding the 

Bancorp™s goodwill. 
 Fair Value Measurements 
The Bancorp measures certain fina
ncial assets and liabilities at fair 
value in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which defines fair value as the 
price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a 
liability in an orderly transaction be
tween market participants at the 
measurement date. Valuation techniques the Bancorp uses to 

measure fair value include the ma
rket approach, income approach 
and cost approach. The market appr
oach uses prices or relevant 
information generated by market tr
ansactions involving identical or 
comparable assets or liabilities. 
The income approach involves 
discounting future amounts to a si
ngle present amount and is based 
on current market expectations a
bout those future amounts. The 
cost approach is based on the amount that currently would be 

required to replace the service capacity of the asset. 
U.S. GAAP establishes a fair v
alue hierarchy, which prioritizes 
the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into 

three broad levels. The fair value hi
erarchy gives the highest priority 
to quoted prices in active market
s for identical assets or liabilities 
(Level 1) and the lowest priority 
to unobservable inputs (Level 3). A 
financial instrument™s categorization within the fair value hierarchy 

is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the 

instrument™s fair value measurement. 
The three levels within the fair 
value hierarchy are described as follows: 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  95  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Level 1
 Œ Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities th
at the Bancorp has the ability 
to access at the measurement date. 

 
Level 2
 Œ Inputs other than quoted prices included within 
Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either 
directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs include: quoted prices 
for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted 

prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets 

that are not active; inputs other than quoted prices that are 

observable for the asset or liability; and inputs that are 

derived principally from or corroborated by observable 

market data by correlation or other means. 

 Level 3
 Œ Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability for 
which there is little, if any, market activity at the 

measurement date. Unobservable inputs reflect the 

Bancorp™s own assumptions abou
t what market participants 
would use to price the asset or liability. The inputs are 

developed based on the best information available in the 

circumstances, which might include the Bancorp™s own 

financial data such as internally developed pricing models 
and DCF methodologies, as well as instruments for which 
the fair value determination requires significant management 

judgment.  The Bancorp™s fair value measurements involve various 
valuation techniques and models, which involve inputs that are 

observable, when available. Valuation techniques and parameters 

used for measuring assets and liabilities are reviewed and validated 
by the Bancorp on a quarterly basis. Additionally, the Bancorp 
monitors the fair values of sign
ificant assets and liabilities using a 
variety of methods including the 
evaluation of pricing runs and 
exception reports based on certain an
alytical criteria, comparison to 
previous trades and overall review and assessments for 

reasonableness. Refer to Note 27 for further information on fair 

value measurements. 

  Stock-Based Compensation 
The Bancorp recognizes compensation expense for the grant-date 

fair value of stock-based awards th
at are expected to vest over the 
requisite service period. All awards
, both those with cliff vesting and 
graded vesting, are expensed on a straight-line basis. Awards to 

employees that meet eligible retirement status are expensed 

immediately. As compensation expense is recognized, a deferred tax 

asset is recorded that represents an estimate of the future tax 
deduction from exercise or rele
ase of restrictions. At the time 
awards are exercised, cancelled, ex
pire or restrictions are released, 
the Bancorp may be required to r
ecognize an adjustment to income 
tax expense for the difference betw
een the previously estimated tax 
deduction and the actual tax deduction realized. For further 

information on the Bancorp™s stock-based compensation plans, 

refer to Note 24.  Pension Plans 
The Bancorp uses an expected long
-term rate of return applied to 
the fair market value of assets as of the beginning of the year and 

the expected cash flow during th
e year for calculating the expected 
investment return on all pension plan assets. Amortization of the 

net gain or loss resulting from experience different from that 

assumed and from changes in assu
mptions (excluding asset gains 
and losses not yet reflected in market-related value) is included as a 
component of net periodic benefit cost. If, as of the beginning of 
the year, that net gain or loss exceeds 10% of the greater of the 
projected benefit obligation and th
e market-related value of plan 
assets, the amortization is that excess divided by the average 

remaining service period of participating employees expected to 

receive benefits under the plan. The Bancorp uses a third-party 

actuary to compute the remaining service period of participating 

employees. This period reflects exp
ected turnover, pre-retirement 
mortality and other applicable employee demographics. 
 Other 
Securities and other property held by Fifth Third Investment 

Advisors, a division of the Banc
orp™s banking subsidiary, in a 
fiduciary or agency capacity are not
 included in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheets because such items are not assets of the subsidiaries. 

Investment advisory revenue in the Consolidated Statements of 
Income is recognized on the accrual basis. Investment advisory 
service revenues are recognized monthly based on a fee charged per 

transaction processed and/or a fee charged on the market value of 

average account balances associated with individual contracts. 
The Bancorp recognizes revenue from its card and processing 
services on an accrual basis as such services are performed, 

recording revenues net of certain costs (primarily interchange fees 

charged by credit card associations) not controlled by the Bancorp. 
The Bancorp purchases life insurance policies on the lives of 
certain directors, officers and employees and is the owner and 

beneficiary of the policies. The Ba
ncorp invests in these policies, 
known as BOLI, to provide an efficient form of funding for long-

term retirement and other employee benefits costs. The Bancorp 

records these BOLI policies within other assets in the Consolidated 

Balance Sheets at each policy™s respect
ive cash surrender value, with 
changes recorded in other noninterest income in the Consolidated 
Statements of Income. 
Other intangible assets consist of core deposit intangibles, 
customer lists, non-compete agreements and cardholder 

relationships. Other intangible assets are amortized on either a 

straight-line or an accelerated basi
s over their estimated useful lives. 
The Bancorp reviews other intangible assets for impairment 

whenever events or changes in circ
umstances indicate that carrying 
amounts may not be recoverable. 
Securities sold under repurchase agreements are accounted for 
as secured borrowings and included in other short-term borrowings 

in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at the amounts at which the 

securities were sold plus accrued interest. 
Acquisitions of treasury stock ar
e carried at cost. Reissuance of 
shares in treasury for acquisitions
, exercises of stock-based awards 
or other corporate purposes is recorded based on the specific 

identification method. Advertising costs are generally expensed as incurred.  Accounting and Reporting Developments 
Accounting for Investments in Qual
ified Affordable Housing Projects 
In January 2014, the FASB issu
ed amended guidance which would 
permit the Bancorp to make an accounting policy election to 

account for its investments in qualified affordable housing projects 

using a proportional amortization method if certain conditions are 
met and to present the amortization as a component of income tax 
expense. The amended guidance would be applied retrospectively to 

all periods presented and is effective for fiscal years, and interim 

periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2014, with 

early adoption permitted. Regard
less of the policy election, the 
amended guidance requires disclosures to enable the users of the 

financial statements to understand the nature of the Bancorp™s 

investments in qualified affordable housing projects and the effect 
of the measurement of the invest
ments in qualified affordable 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  96  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 housing projects and the related tax credits on the Bancorp™s 
financial position and results of operation. 

       The Bancorp adopted the amended guidance on January 1, 

2015 and did not make an accounting policy election to apply the 
proportional amortization method for its investments in qualified 
affordable housing projects. Therefore, the adoption of the 

amended guidance did not have a material impact on the 

Consolidated Financial Statements. The required disclosures are 

included in Note 11.  

 
Reclassification of Residential Real Es
tate Collateralized Consumer Mortgage 
Loans upon Foreclosure In January 2014, the FASB issued
 amended guidance that clarifies 
when a creditor should be considered to have received physical 

possession of residential real estate property collateralizing a 

consumer mortgage loan such that the loan receivable should be 

derecognized and the real estate property recognized. The amended 

guidance clarifies that an in substance repossession or foreclosure 

occurs and a creditor is considered to have received physical 

possession of residential real estate property collateralizing a 
consumer mortgage loan, upon either 1) the creditor obtaining legal 
title to the residential real estate property upon completion of a 

foreclosure or 2) the borrower conveying all interest in the 

residential real estate property to the creditor to satisfy that loan 

through completion of a deed in lieu of foreclosure or through a 

similar legal agreement. In addition, the amended guidance requires 

interim and annual disclosures of 
both 1) the amount of foreclosed 
residential real estate property held by the creditor and 2) the 
recorded investment in consumer mortgage loans collateralized by 
residential real estate property that are in the process of foreclosure 

according to local requirements of the applicable jurisdiction. The 

amended guidance may be applied prospectively or through a 

modified retrospective approach and is effective for fiscal years, and 

interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 

2014, with early adoption permitted. The Bancorp adopted the 

amended guidance on January 1, 2015 and the adoption of the 
amended guidance did not have a material impact on the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. The required disclosures are 

included in Note 6.  Reporting Discontinued Operations 
and Disclosures of Disposals of 
Components of an Entity 

In April 2014, the FASB issued a
mended guidance that changes the 
criteria for reporting discontinued operations. The amended 
guidance requires a disposal of a component of an entity or a group 
of components of an entity to be reported in discontinued 

operations if the disposal represents a strategic shift that has (or will 

have) a major effect on an entity™s operations and financial results 

when any of the following occurs: 1) the component of an entity or 

group of components of an entity meets the criteria to be classified 

as held for sale; 2) the component of an entity or group of 

components of an entity is disposed of by sale; or 3) the component 
of an entity or group of components of an entity is disposed of 
other than by sale (for example, by
 abandonment or in a distribution 
to owners in a spinoff). The amended guidance requires an entity to 

present, for each comparative peri
od, the assets and liabilities of a 
disposal group that includes a di
scontinued operation separately in 
the asset and liability sections, respectively, of the statement of 

financial position, as well as additional disclosures about 

discontinued operations. The amended guidance is to be applied 
prospectively for 1) all disposals (or classifications as held for sale) 
of components of an entity that occur within annual periods 

beginning on or after December 15, 2014, and interim periods 

within those years; and 2) all businesse
s or nonprofit activities that, 
on acquisition, are classified as held 
for sale that occur within annual 
periods beginning on or after December 15, 2014, and interim 
periods within those years. The Bancorp adopted the amended 

guidance on January 1, 2015 and the adoption of the amended 

guidance did not have a material impact on the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. 
 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 

In May 2014, the FASB issued amended guidance on revenue 

recognition from contracts with cu
stomers. The standard outlines a 
single comprehensive model for enti
ties to use in accounting for 
revenue arising from contracts with
 customers and supersedes most 
contract revenue recognition guid
ance, including industry-specific 
guidance. The core principle of 
the amended guidance is that an 
entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised 

goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the 

consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange 

for those goods or services. The amended guidance is effective for 

annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, and 

interim periods within the reporting period, and should be applied 

either retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or 
retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the 
amendments recognized at the date of initial application. Early 

adoption is permitted only as of 
annual reporting periods beginning 
after December 15, 2016 and interim reporting periods within those 

fiscal years. The Bancorp is currently in the process of evaluating 

the impact of the amended guidance on its Consolidated Financial 

Statements. 
 Repurchase-to-Maturity Transactions, 
Repurchase Financings and Disclosures In June 2014, the FASB issued amended guidance that changes the 

accounting for repurchase-to-matu
rity transactions to secured 
borrowing accounting. The amended guidance also requires separate 

accounting for a transfer of a financial asset executed 

contemporaneously with a repurchase agreement with the same 

counterparty, which will result in
 secured borrowing accounting for 
the repurchase agreement. The amended guidance requires 
disclosures for certain transactions
 comprising: 1) a transfer of a 
financial asset accounted for as a 
sale and 2) an agreement with the 
same transferee entered into in contemplation of the initial transfer 

that results in the transferor 
retaining substantially all of the 
exposure to the economic return on the transferred financial asset 

throughout the term of the transaction. The amended guidance also 

requires new disclosures for repurchase agreements, securities 

lending transactions and repurc
hase-to-maturity transactions 
accounted for as secured borrowings. The amended guidance is 
effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, 

beginning after December 15, 2014, with early adoption prohibited. 

Changes in accounting for transact
ions outstanding on the effective 
date should be presented as a cumulative-effect adjustment to 

retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. The 

disclosures for certain transacti
ons accounted for as a sale are 
required to be presented for interim and annual periods beginning 
after December 15, 2014, and the disclosures for repurchase 
agreements, securities lending tr
ansactions and repurchase-to-
maturity transactions accounte
d for as secured borrowings are 
required to be presented for annual periods beginning after 

December 15, 2014, and interim periods beginning after March 15, 

2015. The Bancorp adopted the amended guidance on January 1, 

2015 and the adoption of the amended guidance did not have a 

material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements. The 
required disclosures are included in Note 15.  
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  97  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Accounting for Share-Based Payments Wh
en the Terms of the Award Provide 
That a Performance Target Could be Achieved after the Requisite Service 

Period 
In June 2014, the FASB issued amended guidance which clarifies 

that a performance target that affects vesting and can be achieved 

after the requisite service period be treated as a performance 
condition. The amended guidance pr
ovides that an entity should 
apply existing guidance as it relates to awards with performance 

conditions that affect vesting to account for such awards. As such, 

the performance target should not 
be reflected in estimating the 
grant-date fair value of the award. Compensation cost should be 

recognized in the period in which it becomes probable that the 

performance target will be achieved and should represent the 

compensation cost attributable to the period(s) for which the 
requisite service has already been rendered. If the performance 
target becomes probable of being achieved before the end of the 

requisite service period, the remaining unrecognized compensation 

cost should be recognized prospectively over the remaining requisite 

service period. The total amount of compensation cost recognized 

during and after the requisite se
rvice period should reflect the 
number of awards that are expected to vest and should be adjusted 

to reflect those awards that ultimately vest. The requisite service 
period ends when the employee can cease rendering service and still 
be eligible to vest in the award if the performance target is achieved. 

The amended guidance is effective for annual periods, and interim 

periods within those annual periods, beginning after December 15, 

2015, with early adoption permitte
d. The amended guidance may be 
adopted either prospectively to all awards granted or modified after 

the effective date or retrospectively to all awards with performance 

targets that are outstanding as of th
e beginning of the earliest annual 
period presented in the financial statements and to all new or 
modified awards thereafter. If retrospective transition is adopted, 

the cumulative effect of applying
 the amended guidance as of the 
beginning of the earliest annual 
period presented in the financial 
statements should be recognized as an adjustment to the opening 

retained earnings balance at that date. The Bancorp adopted the 

amended guidance prospectively on January 1, 2016 and the 

adoption of the amended guidance did not have a material impact 
on the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 
Measuring the Financial Assets and Fina
ncial Liabilities of a Consolidated 
Collateralized Financing Entity 

In August 2014, the FASB issued
 amended guidance that provides 
an alternative to ASC Topic 
820: Fair Value Measurement for 
measuring the financial assets and financial liabilities of a CFE, such 

as a collateralized debt obligation 
or a collateralized loan obligation 
entity consolidated as a VIE when
 a) all of the financial assets and 
the financial liabilities of that CFE are measured at fair value in the 

consolidated financial statements and b) the changes in the fair 

values of those financial assets and financial liabilities are reflected 

in earnings. If elected, the measu
rement alternative would allow the 
Bancorp to measure both the financial assets and the financial 

liabilities of the CFE by using the more observable of the fair value 

of the financial assets or the fair value of the financial liabilities and 
to eliminate any measurement di
fference. When the measurement 
alternative is not elected for a consolidated CFE within the scope of 

this amended guidance, the amendmen
ts clarify that 1) the fair value 
of the financial assets and the fair value of the financial liabilities of 

the consolidated CFE should be measured using the requirements 

of Topic 820 and 2) any difference in the fair value of the financial 

assets and the fair value of the financial liabilities of that 

consolidated CFE should be reflected in earnings and attributed to 
the Bancorp in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The 
amended guidance may be applied retrospectively or through a 
modified retrospective approach and is effective for fiscal years, and 
interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after 

December 15, 2015. The Bancorp adopted the amended guidance 

on January 1, 2016 and the adoption did not have a material impact 

on the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 Classification of Certain Governmen
t-Guaranteed Mortgage Loans upon 
Foreclosure 

In August 2014, the FASB issued amended guidance clarifying the 

classification of certain foreclosed 
mortgage loans that are either full 
or partially guaranteed under government programs. The amended 

guidance requires that a mortgage 
loan be derecognized and that a 
separate other receivable be recognized upon foreclosure if the 

following conditions are met: 1) the loan has a government 
guarantee that is not separable from
 the loan before foreclosure; 2) 
at the time of foreclosure, the creditor has the intent to convey the 

real estate property to the guarantor and make a claim on the 

guarantee, and the creditor has 
the ability to recover under that 
claim; and 3) at the time of foreclosure, any amount of the claim 

that is determined on the basis of the fair value of the real estate is 

fixed. Upon foreclosure, the sepa
rate other receivable would be 
measured based on the amount of the loan balance (principal and 
interest) expected to be reco
vered from the guarantor. The 
amended guidance may be applied prospectively or through a 

modified retrospective approach and is effective for fiscal years, and 

interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 

2014, with early adoption permitted. The Bancorp adopted the 

amended guidance prospectively on January 1, 2015 and the 

adoption of the amended guidance did not have a material impact 

on the Consolidated Financial Statements. The required disclosures 
are included in Note 6.  
 
Determining Whether the Host Contract
 in a Hybrid Financial Instrument 
Issued in the Form of a Share is More Akin to Debt or Equity 

In November 2014, the FASB issued amended guidance that 

clarifies how current U.S. GAAP s
hould be interpreted in evaluating 
the economic characteristics and risks of a host contract in a hybrid 

financial instrument that is issued in the form of a share. 
Specifically, the amendments clarify 
that an entity should consider 
all relevant terms and features, including the embedded derivative 

features being evaluated for bifurcation, in evaluating the nature of 

the host contract. Furthermore, the amendments clarify that no 

single term or feature would necessarily determine the economic 

characteristics and risks of the hos
t contract. Rather, the nature of 
the host contract depends upon the economic characteristics and 

risks of the entire hybrid financial instrument. The amended 
guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within 
those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2015, with early 

adoption permitted. The effects of initially adopting the amended 

guidance should be applied on a modified retrospective basis to 

existing hybrid financial instruments issued in the form of a share as 

of the beginning of the fiscal year for which the amendments are 

effective and shall be reported as a cumulative-effect adjustment 

directly to retained earnings as of the beginning of the year of 
adoption. The Bancorp adopted the amended guidance on January 
1, 2016 and the adoption of the amended guidance did not have a 

material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

 
Simplifying Income Statement Presentati
on by Eliminating the Concept of 
Extraordinary Items 

In January 2015, the FASB issued amended guidance that eliminates 

the concept of extraordinary items from U.S. GAAP. Presently, an 
event or transaction is presumed to 
be an ordinary and usual activity 
of a reporting entity unless evidence clearly supports its 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  98  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 classification as an extraordinary item, which must be both unusual 
in nature and infrequent in occurrence. An entity was required to 

segregate the extraordinary item from the results of ordinary 

operations and show the item separately in the income statement, 
net of tax, after income from continuing operations. An entity was 
also required to disclose applicab
le income taxes and either present 
or disclose earnings-per-share data
 applicable to the extraordinary 
item. The presentation and disclosu
re guidance for items that are 
unusual in nature or occur infreque
ntly will be retained and will be 
expanded to include items that are both unusual in nature and 

infrequently occurring. The amended guidance is effective for fiscal 

years, and interim periods within 
those fiscal years, beginning after 
December 15, 2015, with early adoption permitted provided that the 
guidance is applied from the beginning of the fiscal year of 

adoption. The amended guidance may be applied prospectively or 

retrospectively to all periods presented in the financial statements. 

The Bancorp adopted the amended guidance prospectively on 

January 1, 2016 and the adoption of the amended guidance did not 

have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Amendments to the Consolidation Analysis 
In February 2015, the FASB issu
ed amended guidance that changes 
the analysis a reporting entity must perform to determine whether it 

should consolidate certain types of legal entities. The amended 

guidance 1) modifies the evaluation 
of whether limited partnerships 
and similar legal entities are VIEs
 or voting interest entities; 2) 
eliminates the presumption that a 
general partner should consolidate 
a limited partnership; 3) affects the consolidation analysis of 
reporting entities that are involved 
with VIEs, particularly those that 
have fee arrangements and related party relationships; and 4) 

provides a scope exception from consolidation guidance for 

reporting entities that are required
 to comply with or operate in 
accordance with requirements that are similar to those in Rule 2a-7 

of the Investment Company Act of 1940 for registered money 

market funds. The amended guidance is effective for fiscal years, 

and interim periods within those years, beginning after 
December 15, 2015, with early adoption permitted. The amended 
guidance may be applied using either a retrospective approach or a 

modified retrospective approa
ch with a cumulative-effect 
adjustment to equity as of the beginning of the fiscal year of 

adoption. The Bancorp adopted the amended guidance on January 

1, 2016 and the adoption of the amended guidance did not have a 

material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs 
In April 2015, the FASB issued 
amended guidance to address the 
different balance sheet presentation requirements for debt issuance 

costs and debt discounts and premiums. The amended guidance 

requires that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability 

be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the 

carrying amount of that debt liability, consistent with debt 

discounts. The recognition an
d measurement guidance for debt 
issuance costs are not affected by the amended guidance. The 
amended guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods 

within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2015, with 

early adoption permitted for financial statements that have not been 
previously issued. The amended guidance should be applied 

retrospectively, wherein the balance 
sheet of each individual period 
presented should be adjusted to re
flect the period-specific effects of 
applying the amended guidance. As of December 31, 2015 and 
2014, the Bancorp had approximately $34 million and $36 million of 
debt issuance costs, respectively, r
ecorded within other assets in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets that were required to be reclassified 

and presented as a direct deduction from the debt liability upon the 

adoption of the amended guidance on January 1, 2016.  
Practical Expedient for the Measurem
ent Date of an Employer™s Defined 
Benefit Obligation and Plan Assets 

In April 2015, the FASB issued amended guidance intended to 

simplify an entity™s measurement of the fair value of plan assets of a 
defined benefit pension or other postretirement benefit plan when 
the fiscal year-end does not coincide with a month end. For an 

entity with a fiscal year-end that does not coincide with a month-

end, the amended guidance provid
es a practical expedient that 
permits the entity to measure defined benefit plan assets and 

obligations using the month-end that 
is closest to the entity™s fiscal 
year-end and apply that practical ex
pedient consistently from year to 
year. The amended guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim 
periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 
2015, with early adoption permitte
d. The amended guidance should 
be applied prospectively. The adoption of the amended guidance 

did not have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements as 

the Bancorp™s fiscal year-end coincides with a month end.  

 
Customer™s Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement 
In April 2015, the FASB issued a
mended guidance on a customer™s 
accounting for fees paid in a 
cloud computing arrangement. Under 
the amended guidance, if a cloud computing arrangement includes a 

software license, then the customer
 should account for the software 
license element of the arrangement consistent with the acquisition 

of other software licenses. If a cloud computing arrangement does 

not include a software license, the customer should account for the 

arrangement as a service contract. The amended guidance is 

effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal 
years, beginning after December 15, 2015, with early adoption 
permitted. The amended guidance may be applied either 

prospectively to all arrangements entered into or materially modified 

after the effective date, or retrospectively. The Bancorp adopted the 

amended guidance prospectively on January 1, 2016 and the 

adoption did not have material impact on the Consolidated 

Financial Statements. 

 Disclosures for Investments in Certain
 Entities That Calculate Net Asset 
Value per Share 
In May 2015, the FASB issued amended guidance to remove the 

requirement to categorize within
 the fair value hierarchy all 
investments for which fair value 
is measured using the net asset 
value per share practical expedient. The amended guidance also 

removes the requirement to make certain disclosures for all 

investments that are eligible to be
 measured at fair value using the 
net asset value per share practical expedient. Rather, those 
disclosures are limited to investments for which the entity has 

elected to measure the fair value us
ing that practical expedient. The 
amended guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods 

within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2015. The 

amended guidance should be applied retrospectively to all periods 

presented. The retrospective appr
oach requires that an investment 
for which fair value is measured using the net asset value per share 
practical expedient be removed from
 the fair value hierarchy in all 
periods presented in an entity™s financial statements. Earlier 

application is permitted. The Bancorp adopted the amended 

guidance on January 1, 2016 and the adoption did not have a 

material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

 
Presentation and Subsequent Measurement 
of Debt Issuance Costs Associated 
with Line-Of-Credit Agreements 
In August 2015, the FASB issu
ed amended guidance about the 
presentation and subsequent measu
rement of debt issuance costs 
associated with line of credit arrangements. Given the absence of 

authoritative guidance for debt issuance costs related to line of 

credit arrangements within ASU 2015-03, the amended guidance 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  99  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 provides that the SEC staff would not object to an entity deferring 
and presenting debt issuance costs as an asset and subsequently 

amortizing the deferred debt issuance costs ratably over the term of 

the line of credit arrangement, regardless of whether there were any 

outstanding borrowings on the line of credit arrangement. The 

amended guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods 
within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2015. The 
amended guidance should be applied retrospectively, where in the 

balance sheet of each individual peri
od presented should be adjusted 
to reflect the period-specific eff
ects of applying the amendments. 
Early adoption is permitted for financial statements that have not 

been previously issued. The Bancorp adopted the amended 

guidance on January 1, 2016 and the adoption did not have a 

material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 Simplifying the Accounting for Me
asurement-Period Adjustments 
In September 2015, the FASB issued amended guidance to simplify 

the accounting for adjustments made to provisional amounts 

recognized in a business combination. The amended guidance 

eliminates the requirement to re
trospectively account for those 
adjustments and requires that an 
acquirer recognize adjustments to 
provisional amounts that are id
entified during the measurement 
period in the reporting period in which the adjustment amounts are 
determined. The acquirer shall record, in the same period™s financial 

statements, the effect on earnings of changes in depreciation, 

amortization or other income effects, if any, as a result of the 

change to the provisional amounts, 
calculated as if the accounting 
had been completed at the acquisition date. The amended guidance 

requires an entity to present separately on the face of the income 

statement or disclose in the notes the portion of the amount 
recorded in current-period earnings
 by line item that would have 
been recorded in previous reporting periods if the adjustment to the 

provisional amounts had been recognized as of the acquisition date. 

The amended guidance is effective for fiscal years, and interim 

periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 

2015, with earlier application permitted for financial statements that 

have not been issued. The amended guidance should be applied 

prospectively to adjustments to provisional amounts that occur after 
the effective date of the amended guidance.  The Bancorp adopted 
the amended guidance on January 1, 2016 and the adoption did not 

have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 
Recognition and Measurement of Fina
ncial Assets and Financial Liabilities 
In January 2016, the FASB issu
ed amended guidance to improve 
certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and 

disclosure of financial instrument
s. Specifically, the amendments 
significantly revise an entity™s accounting related to 1) the 
classification and measurement of in
vestments in equity securities, 
2) the presentation of certain f
air value changes for financial 
liabilities measured at fair value, and 3) certain disclosure 

requirements associated with the fair value of financial instruments. 

The amendments require equity investments (except those 

accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that 

result in consolidation of the investee) to be measured at fair value 
with changes in fair value recogn
ized in net income. However, an 
entity may choose to measure equi
ty investments that do not have 
readily determinable fair values at
 cost minus impairment, if any, 
plus or minus changes as a result 
of an observable price change. The 
amendments also simplify the im
pairment assessment of equity 
investments for which fair value 
is not readily determinable by 
requiring an entity to perform a 
qualitative assessment to identify 
impairment. If qualitative indicators 
are identified, the entity will be 
required to measure the investment at fair value. For financial 
liabilities that an entity has electe
d to measure at fair value, the 
amendments require an entity to present separately in other 
comprehensive income the portion of the change in fair value that 

results from a change in instrument-
specific credit risk.  For public 
business entities, the amendments 1) eliminate the requirement to 

disclose the method(s) and significant assumptions used to estimate 

fair value for financial instruments measured at amortized cost and 
2) require, for disclosure purposes, the use of an exit price notion in 
the determination of the fair value of financial instruments. The 

amended guidance is effective for fiscal years and interim periods 

within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017. Upon 

adoption, the Bancorp will be required to make a cumulative-effect 

adjustment to the Consolidated B
alance Sheets as of the beginning 
of the fiscal year of adoption. The guidance on equity securities 

without readily determinable fair value will be applied prospectively 
to all equity investments that exist as of the date of adoption of the 
standard. Early adoption of the a
mendments is not permitted with 
the exception of the presentation of certain fair value changes for 

financial liabilities measured at fair value for which early application 

is permitted. The Bancorp is currently in the process of evaluating 

the impact of the amended guidance on its Consolidated Financial 

Statements. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  100  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 2.  SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION
   Cash payments related to interest and income taxes in addition to
 non-cash investing and financing activities are presented in 
the following table
for the years ended December 31:
          ($ in millions) 
 2015 
2014
2013 
Cash Payments:  Interest 
$475 
429
406 
Income taxes 
 400 
550
535 
   Non-cash Investing and Financing Activities:
        Portfolio loans to loans held for sale 
  487 
 855
 641 
Loans held for sale to portfolio loans 
  288 
 31
 44 
Portfolio loans to OREO 
  105 
 145
 204 
Loans held for sale to OREO 
  - 
 2 4 
Capital lease obligation 
  4 
 15
 - 
  3. RESTRICTIONS ON CASH, DIVIDENDS AND OTHER CAPITAL ACTIONS 
The FRB, under Regulation D, requires that banks hold cash in 
reserve against deposit liabilities, known as the reserve requirement. 

The reserve requirement is calculated based on a two-week average 
of daily net transaction account deposits as defined by the FRB and 
may be satisfied with average vaul
t cash during the following two-
week maintenance period. When vaul
t cash is not sufficient to meet 
the reserve requirement, the remaining amount must be satisfied 

with average funds held at the FRB. At December 31, 2015 and 

2014, the Bancorp™s banking subsidiary reserve requirement was 

$1.9 billion and $1.8 billion, resp
ectively. The Bancorp™s banking 
subsidiary satisfied its reserve 
requirement during the two-week 
maintenance periods covering December 31, 2015 and 2014. The 
noninterest-bearing portion of the Bancorp™s deposit at the FRB is 

held in cash and due from banks in the Consolidated Balance Sheets 

while the interest-bearing portion is held in other short-term 

investments in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
The dividends paid by the Bancorp™s indirect banking 
subsidiary are subject to regulations and limitations prescribed by 

state and federal supervisory agencies. The Bancorp™s indirect 
banking subsidiary paid the Bancorp™s direct nonbank subsidiary 
holding company, which in turn paid the Bancorp $1.0 billion and 

$1.1 billion in dividends during the years ended December 31, 2015 

and 2014, respectively. 
 In 2011, the FRB adopted the capital plan rule, which requires 

BHCs with consolidated assets of $50 billion or more to submit 

annual capital plans to the FRB for review. Under the rule, these 

capital plans must include detailed descriptions of the following: the 
BHC™s internal processes for assessi
ng capital adequacy; the policies 
governing capital actions such as common stock issuances, 

dividends, and share repurchases; and all planned capital actions 

over a nine-quarter planning horizon.
  Further, each BHC must also 
report to the FRB the results of stress tests conducted by the BHC 

under a number of scenarios that assess the sources and uses of 

capital under baseline and stressed economic scenarios. The FRB 

launched the 2015 stress testing program and CCAR on October 23, 
2014, with firm submissions of stre
ss test results and capital plans 
due to the FRB on January 5, 2015, which the Bancorp submitted as 

required. 
The FRB™s review of the capital plan assessed the 
comprehensiveness of the capital plan, the reasonableness of the 

assumptions and the analysis underlying the capital plan. 

Additionally, the FRB reviewed the robustness of the capital 

adequacy process, the capital policy and the Bancorp™s ability to 
maintain capital above the minimu
m regulatory capital ratios and 
above a Tier I common ratio (chang
ed to CET1 on January 1, 2015) 
of 5% on a pro forma basis under expected and stressful conditions 

throughout the planning horizon. The FRB assessed the Bancorp™s 
strategies for addressing proposed 
revisions to the regulatory capital 
framework agreed upon by the BCBS
 and requirements arising from 
the DFA.  
On March 11, 2015, the Bancorp 
announced the results of its 
capital plan submitted to the FRB as part of the 2015 CCAR. For 

BHCs that proposed capital distribu
tions in their plans, the FRB 
either objected to the plan or provided a non-objection whereby the 

FRB permitted the proposed 2015 capital distributions. The FRB 

indicated to the Bancorp that it did not object to the following 

capital actions for the period beginning April 1, 2015 and ending 

June 30, 2016:  The potential increase in the quarterly common stock 
dividend to $0.14 per share in 2016;  
 The potential repurchase of co
mmon shares in an amount 
up to $765 million; and 
 The additional ability to repurchase shares in the amount 
of any after-tax gains from the sale of Vantiv, Inc. 
common stock. 
 
As contemplated by the 2014 capital plan part of the FRB™s 
CCAR, during the first quarter of
 2015, the Bancorp entered into a 
$180 million accelerated share 
repurchase transaction. As 
contemplated by the 2015 capital plan part of the FRB™s CCAR, the 

Bancorp entered into $155 million, $300 million and $215 million of 

accelerated share repurchase transa
ctions during the second, third 
and fourth quarters of 2015, respectively. 
Additionally, as a CCAR institution, the Bancorp is required to 
disclose the results of its company-run stress test under the 

supervisory severely adverse scen
ario, and to provide information 
related to the types of risk included in its stress testing; a general 

description of the methodologies us
ed; estimates of certain financial 
results and pro forma capital ratios; and an explanation of the most 
significant causes of changes in regulatory capital ratios. On March 
5, 2015 the Bancorp publicly disclosed the results of its company-
run stress test as required by the DFA stress testing rules, in a press 

release. The BHCs that participated in
 the 2015 CCAR, including the 
Bancorp, were required to also conduct mid-cycle company-run 

stress tests using data as of Marc
h 31, 2015. The stress tests must be 
based on three BHC defined scen
arios Œ baseline, adverse and 
severely adverse. The Bancorp submitted the results of its mid-cycle 
stress test to the FRB by the required July 6, 2015 submission date. 
In addition, the Bancorp published a Form 8-K providing a 

summary of the results under the severely adverse scenario on July 

27, 2015. These results represented estimates of the Bancorp™s 

results from the second quarter of 2015 through the second quarter 

of 2017 under the severely adverse scenario.  
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  101  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 4. INVESTMENT SECURITIES 
The following table provides the amortized cost, fair value and 
unrealized gains and losses for the major categories of the ava
ilable-for-sale and 
other and held-to-maturity investment securities portfolios as of December 31:
                      2015 
 2014 
        AmortizedUnrealized
Unrealized
Fair  
Amortized Unrealized 
Unrealized
Fair  
($ in millions)
  Cost Gains 
Losses Value 
Cost Gains 
Losses Value 
Available-for-sale and other securities:
                                     U.S. Treasury and fede
ral agencies securities
  $ 1,155 
 32 
 - 
 1,187 
1,545 
 87 
 - 
1,632 
  Obligations of states and political subdivisions securities
   50 
 2 
 - 
 52 
185 
 7 
 - 
192 
  Mortgage-backed securities:
      Agency residential mortgage-backed securities
(a)
  14,811 
 283 
 (13)
 15,081 
11,968 
 437 
 (1)
12,404 
    Agency commercial mortgage-backed securities
   7,795 
 100 
  (33)
 7,862 
 4,465 
 101 
 (1)
 4,565 
    Non-agency commercial mortgage-backed securities
   2,801 
 35 
 (32)
 2,804 
1,489 
 61 
 - 
1,550 
  Asset-backed securities an
d other debt securities
   1,363 
 13 
 (21)
 1,355 
1,324 
 40 
 (2)
1,362 
  Equity securities
(b)  703 
 2 
 (2)
 703 
701 
 3 
 (1)
703 
Total available-for-sale and other securities
  $ 28,678 
 467 
 (101)
 29,044 
21,677 
736 
(5)
22,408 
Held-to-maturity securities:
    Obligations of states and political subdivisions securities
  $ 68 
 - 
 - 
 68 
186 
 - 
 - 
186 
  Asset-backed securities an
d other debt securities
   2 
 - 
 - 
 2 
1  - 
 - 
1 Total held-to-maturity securities
  $ 70 
 - 
 - 
 70 
187 
 - 
 - 
187 
(a) Includes interest-only mortgage-backed securities of 
$50 
and $175 as of
 December 31, 2015
 and 2014, respectively, recorded at fair value with 
fair value changes recorded in securities gains, net, 
in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
(b) Equity securities consist of FHLB, FRB an
d DTCC restricted stock holdings of 
$248
, $355
, and 
$1, respectively, at 
December 31, 2015
 and $248, $352 and $0, respectively, at December 
31, 2014, that are carried at cost, and certai
n mutual fund and equity security holdings. 
                 The following table presents realized gains 
and losses that were recognized in income 
from available-for-sale securities for th
e years ended
December 31:          ($ in millions)
    2015 
 2014 
 2013  
Realized gains
  $97 
  70 
  77 
  Realized losses
    (76)  (9)
   (102)
  OTTI     (5)
  (24)
  (74)
  Net realized gains (losses)
(a) $16 37 
  (99)
  (a) Excludes net losses on interest-only mortgage-backed securities of 
$4 and $17 for the years ended 
December 31, 2015
 and 2014, respectively, and net gain
s on interest-only mortgage-backed 
securities of $129 for the year ended December 31, 2013.
                  Trading securities were $386 million as of December 31, 2015, co
mpared to $360 million at December 31, 2014. The following tabl
e presents total 
gains and losses that were recognized in income fr
om trading securities for the years ended December 31:
          ($ in millions)
    2015 
 2014 
 2013  
Realized gains
(a) $ 6 
   8 
   5 
  Realized losses
(b)    (10)
   (7)
   (8)
  Net unrealized (losses) gains
(c)    (3)
   (3)
   3 
  Total trading securities losses
  $ (7)
 (2)
   - 
  (a) Includes realized gains of 
$6, $4 and $4 for the years ended 
December 31, 2015
, 2014 and 2013, respectively, recorded in corporate ban
king revenue and investment advisory revenue in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income. 
(b) Includes realized losses of 
$10
, $7 and $8 for the years ended 
December 31, 2015
, 2014 and 2013, respectively, recorded in corporate ban
king revenue and investment advisory revenue in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income. 
(c) Includes an immaterial amount of net unrealized gains for the years ended 
December 31, 2015
, 2014 and 2013 recorded in corporate banking re
venue and investment adv
isory revenue in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income.
 At December 31, 2015 and 2014, securities with a fair value of $11.0 
billion and $14.2 billion, respectively, were pledged to secure 
borrowings, public deposits, trust fu
nds, derivative contracts and for other purposes as required or permitted by law. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  102  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The expected maturity distribution of the 
Bancorp™s mortgage-backed securities and th
e contractual maturity
 distribution of the
 remainder of the
Bancorp™s available-for-sale and other and held-to-maturity inve
stment securities as of December 31, 2015 are shown in the foll
owing table:               Available-for-Sale and Other
   Held-to-Maturity 
($ in millions)
  Amortized Cost Fair Value 
  Amortized Cost 
Fair Value 
Debt securities:
(a)                     Less than 1 year
  $695 
  707 
    43 
  43 
    1-5 years  7,277 
  7,441 
    12 
  12 
    5-10 years
  18,191 
  18,372 
    13 
  13 
    Over 10 years
  1,812 
  1,821 
    2   2   Equity securities
  703 
  703 
     - 
   - 
Total  $28,678 
  29,044 
    70 
  70 
  (a) Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities when there exists a right to call or prepay obligations with or withou
t call or prepayment penalties. 
                          The following table provides the fair value and gross unrealized
 losses on available-for-sale and other securities in an unreal
ized loss position, 
aggregated by investment category and length of time the indivi
dual securities have been in a 
continuous unrealized loss positi
on as of December 
31:           Less than 12 months 
12 months or more 
Total 
     Unrealized 
    Unrealized 
   Unrealized 
($ in millions) 
Fair Value 
Losses 
Fair Value 
Losses 
Fair Value 
Losses 
2015 
                      Agency residential mortga
ge-backed securities 
$ 2,903 
 (13)
 - 
 - 
 2,903 
 (13)
Agency commercial mortgage-backed securities
  3,111 
 (33)
 - 
 - 
 3,111 
 (33)
Non-agency commercial mortgage-backed securities
  1,610 
 (32)
 - 
 - 
 1,610 
 (32)
Asset-backed securities an
d other debt securities
  623 
 (11)
 226 
 (10)
 849 
 (21)
Equity securities
  1 
 (1)
 37 
 (1)
 38 
 (2)
Total $ 8,248 
 (90)
 263 
 (11)
 8,511 
 (101)
2014 
 Agency residential mortgage-backed securities
 $ 73 
 (1)
 - 
 - 
 73 
 (1)
Agency commercial mortgage-backed securities 
 355 
 (1)
 - 
 - 
 355 
 (1)
Asset-backed securities an
d other debt securities 
 286 
 (1)
 74 
 (1)
 360 
 (2)
Equity securities 
 - 
 - 30 
 (1)
 30 
 (1)
Total 
$ 714 
 (3)
 104 
 (2)
 818 
 (5)
  Other-Than-Temporary Impairments 
The Bancorp recognized $5 million, $24 million and $74 million of 
OTTI on its available-for-sale and other debt securities, included in 

securities gains, net and securities
 gains, net Œ non-qualifying hedges 
on mortgage servicing rights in the Consolidated Statements of 

Income during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, 
respectively. The Bancorp did not recognize OTTI on any of its 
available-for-sale equity securities or
 held-to-maturity debt securities 
during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. At 

December 31, 2015, 1% of unrealized
 losses in the available-for-sale 
and other securities portfolio were represented by non-rated 

securities, compared to less than 1% at December 31, 2014. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  103  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 5. LOANS AND LEASES 
The Bancorp diversifies its loan and lease portfolio by offering a 
variety of loan and lease products with various payment terms and 

rate structures. Lending activities 
are generally concentrated within 
those states in which the Bancorp has banking centers and are 
primarily located in the Midwestern
 and Southeastern regions of the 
United States. The Bancorp™s commercial loan portfolio consists of 

lending to various industry types. Management periodically reviews 
the performance of its loan and lease products to evaluate whether 
they are performing within acceptabl
e interest rate and credit risk 
levels and changes are made to underwriting policies and procedures 

as needed. The Bancorp maintains 
an allowance to absorb loan and 
lease losses inherent in the port
folio. For further information on credit quality and the ALLL, refer to Note 6. 
      The following table provides a summary of 
commercial loans and leases classified by pr
imary purpose and consumer loans and leas
es classified 
based upon product or collateral as of December 31: 
            ($ in millions) 
2015 
 2014 
 Loans and leases held for sale: 
          Commercial and industrial loans  
$20 
  36 
    Commercial mortgage loans 
34 
  11 
    Commercial construction loans 
-   2     Commercial leases 
-   1     Residential mortgage loans 
708 
  1,193 
    Home equity 
35 
  -     Automobile loans 
4   -     Credit card 
101   -     Other consumer loans and leases 
1   18 
  Total loans and leases held for sale 
$903 
  1,261 
  Portfolio loans and leases: 
          Commercial and industrial loans  
$42,131 
  40,765 
    Commercial mortgage loans 
6,957 
  7,399 
    Commercial construction loans 
3,214 
  2,069 
    Commercial leases 
3,854 
  3,720 
  Total commercial loans and leases 
56,156 
  53,953 
    Residential mortgage loans 
13,716 
  12,389 
    Home equity 
8,301 
  8,886 
    Automobile loans 
11,493 
  12,037 
    Credit card 
2,259 
  2,401 
    Other consumer loans and leases  
657 
  418 
  Total consumer loans and leases 
36,426 
  36,131 
  Total portfolio loans and leases 
$92,582 
  90,084 
          Total portfolio loans and leases 
are recorded net of unearned 
income, which totaled $624 million as of December 31, 2015 and 

$665 million as of December 31, 2014. Additionally, portfolio loans 

and leases are recorded net of unamortized premiums and 

discounts, deferred loan fees an
d costs and fair value adjustments 
(associated with acquired loans or 
loans designated as fair value 
upon origination) which totaled a net premium of $220 million and 
$169 million as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 
The Bancorp™s FHLB and FRB advances are generally secured 
by loans. The Bancorp had loans of
 $11.9 billion and $11.1 billion at 
December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, pledged at the FHLB, 

and loans of $33.7 billion and 
$33.9 billion at December 31, 2015 
and 2014, respectively, pledged at the FRB.  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  104  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following table presents a summary of th
e total loans and leases owned by the Banc
orp and net charge-offs as of and for the
 years ended
December 31:                          90 Days Past Due 
  Net 
    Balance 
 and Still Accruing 
  Charge-Offs 
($ in millions) 
  2015 
 2014 
  2015 
 2014 
   2015 
 2014 
 Commercial and industrial loans 
$ 42,151 
40,801 
  7 
 - 
  229 
222 
Commercial mortgage loans 
  6,991 
7,410 
  - 
 - 
  27 
26 
Commercial construction loans 
  3,214 
2,071 
  - 
 - 
  3 12 
Commercial leases 
  3,854 
3,721 
  - 
 - 
  2 1 Residential mortgage loans 
  14,424 13,582 
 40 
56 
  17 126 
Home equity 
  8,336 
8,886 
  - 
 - 
  39 
59 
Automobile loans 
  11,497 
12,037 
 10 8   28 
27 
Credit card 
  2,360 
2,401 
 18 23 
  82 
82 
Other consumer loans and leases 
  658 
436 
  - 
 - 
  19 20 
Total loans and leases 
$ 93,485 
91,345 
 75 
87 
  446 
575 
Less: Loans and leases held for sale 
$ 903 
1,261 
   Total portfolio loans and leases 
$ 92,582 
90,084 
         The Bancorp engages in commercial lease products primarily related 
to the financing of commercial e
quipment. The Bancorp had $3.1 
billion and $2.8 billion of direct financing leases, net of unearned 

income, at December 31, 2015 and 
2014, respectively, and $801 
million and $874 million of leveraged leases, net of unearned 

income, at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 
Pre-tax income from leveraged leases was $27 million during 
the year ended December 31, 2015 and $25 million during both the 
years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 and the tax effect of this 

income was an expense of $1 million for the year ended December 

31, 2015 and $9 million during both the years ended December 31, 

2014 and 2013.              The following table provides the components of the 
commercial lease financing portfolio as of December 31:
              ($ in millions)
    2015 
 2014 
 Rentals receivable, net of principal and interest on nonrecourse debt
  $ 3,550 
3,589 
Estimated residual va
lue of leased assets
    906 
779 
Initial direct cost, net of amortization
    22 
17 
Gross investment in lease financing
    4,478 
4,385 
Unearned income    (624)(665)
Net investment in commercial lease financing
(a)
 $ 3,854 
3,720 
(a) The accumulated allowance for uncollectible minimum lease payments was 
$47 
and $45 at 
December 31, 2015 
and 2014, respectively.
 The Bancorp periodically reviews residual values associated with its 
leasing portfolio. Declines in residu
al values that are deemed to be 
other-than-temporary are recognized as a loss. The Bancorp 

recognized $8 million and $4 million of residual value write-downs 

related to commercial leases for the years ended December 31, 2015 

and 2014, respectively. The residual
 value write-downs related to 
commercial leases are recorded in corporate banking revenue in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income. At December 31, 2015, the 

minimum future lease payments r
eceivable for each of the years 
2016 through 2020 was $715 million, $632 million, $532 million, 

$449 million and $333 million, respectively. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  105  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 6. CREDIT QUALITY AND THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN AND LEASE LOSSES 
The Bancorp disaggregates ALLL balances and transactions in the ALLL by portfolio segment. Credit quality related disclosures f
or loans and 
leases are further disaggregated by class. 
 Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses
   The following tables summarize transactions in the AL
LL by portfolio segment for the years ended December 31:
               Residential 
          2015 ($ in millions)
  Commercial 
Mortgage 
Consumer 
Unallocated 
Total 
Balance, beginning of period 
$ 875
 104 
 237 
 106 
   1,322
    Losses charged-off 
  (298)
 (28)
 (216)
 - 
 (542)
  Recoveries of losses previously charged-off 
  37
 11 
 48 
 - 
 96
  Provision for loan and lease losses 
  226
 13 
 148 
 9 
 396
Balance, end of period
 $ 840
 100 
 217 
 115 
 1,272
              Residential 
          2014 ($ in millions) 
 Commercial 
Mortgage 
Consumer 
Unallocated 
Total 
Balance, beginning of period 
$ 1,058
 189 
 225 
 110 
   1,582
    Losses charged-off 
  (299)
 (139)
 (241)
 - 
 (679)
  Recoveries of losses previously charged-off 
  38
 13 
 53 
 - 
 104
  Provision for loan and lease losses 
  78
 41 
 200 
 (4)
 315
Balance, end of period
 $ 875
 104 
 237 
 106 
 1,322
              Residential 
          2013 ($ in millions) 
 Commercial 
Mortgage 
Consumer 
Unallocated 
Total 
Balance, beginning of period 
$ 1,236
 229 
 278 
 111 
   1,854
    Losses charged-off 
  (284)
 (70)
 (283)
 - 
 (637)
  Recoveries of losses previously charged-off 
  64
 10 
 62 
 - 
 136
  Provision for loan and lease losses 
  42
 20 
 168 
 (1)
 229
Balance, end of period
 $ 1,058
 189 
 225 
 110 
 1,582
                            The following tables provide a summary of the ALLL and re
lated loans and leases classified by portfolio segment:
                                       Residential           As of December 31, 2015 ($ in millions)
    Commercial
 Mortgage 
Consumer 
Unallocated 
Total 
ALLL:(a)                          Individually evaluated for impairment
  $ 119
a(c)
 67 
   49 
   - 
   235
    Collectively evalua
ted for impairment
     721
    33 
   168 
   - 
   922
    Unallocated
     -    - 
   - 
   115 
   115
  Total ALLL
  $ 840
    100 
   217 
   115 
   1,272
  Portfolio loans and leases:
(b)                          Individually evaluated for impairment
  $ 815
a(c)
 630 
   424 
   - 
   1,869
    Collectively evalua
ted for impairment
     55,341
    12,917 
   22,286 
   - 
   90,544
    Loans acquired with dete
riorated credit quality
     -    2 
   - 
   - 
   2  Total portfolio loans and leases
  $ 56,156
    13,549 
   22,710 
   - 
   92,415
  (a) Includes $5 related to leveraged leases at 
December 31, 2015
. (b) Excludes $167
 of residential mortgage loans measured at fair value and includes 
$801
 of leveraged leases, net of unearned income, at 
December 31, 2015
. (c) Includes five restructured loans at 
December 31, 2015
 associated with a consolidated VIE in which the Bancorp has no 
continuing credit risk due to the risk being assumed by a third
 party, with 
a recorded investment of 
$27
 and an ALLL of 
$15
.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  106  Fifth Third Bancorp 
           Residential           As of December 31, 2014
 ($ in millions)
    Commercial 
 Mortgage 
Consumer 
Unallocated 
Total  
ALLL:(a)                          Individually evaluated for impairment
  $  179
a(c) 65 
 61 
 - 
 305
  Collectively evalua
ted for impairment
     696
    39 
 176 
 - 
 911
  Unallocated
     -    - 
 - 
 106 
 106
Total ALLL
  $  875
    104 
 237 
 106 
 1,322
Portfolio loans and leases:
(b)        Individually evaluated for impairment
  $  1,260
a(c) 518 
 483 
 - 
 2,261
  Collectively evalua
ted for impairment
     52,693
 11,761 
 23,259 
 - 
 87,713
  Loans acquired with dete
riorated credit quality
     - 2 
 - 
 - 
 2Total portfolio loans and leases
  $  53,953
 12,281 
 23,742 
 - 
 89,976
(a) Includes $6 related to leverage
d leases at December 31, 2014. 
(b) Excludes $108 of residential mortgage loans measured at fair va
lue and includes $874 of leveraged leases, net of unearned incom
e, at December 31, 2014.  
(c) Includes five restructured loans at December
 31, 2014 associated with a consolidated 
VIE in which the Bancorp has no continuing
 credit risk due to the risk being assumed by a third party, with a 
recorded investment of $28 and an ALLL of $10. 
CREDIT RISK PROFILE 
Commercial Portfolio Segment 
For purposes of monitoring the credit quality and risk 
characteristics of its commercial portfolio segment, the Bancorp 
disaggregates the segment into th
e following classes: commercial 
and industrial, commercial mortgage owner-occupied, commercial 

mortgage nonowner-occupied, commercial construction and 

commercial leases.  
To facilitate the monitoring 
of credit quality within the 
commercial portfolio segment, and for purposes of analyzing 

historical loss rates used in the determination of the ALLL for the 
commercial portfolio segment, the 
Bancorp utilizes the following 
categories of credit grades: pa
ss, special mention, substandard, 
doubtful and loss. The five categories, which are derived from 

standard regulatory rating defi
nitions, are assigned upon initial 
approval of credit to borrowers and updated periodically thereafter.  
Pass ratings, which are assigned to those borrowers that do not 
have identified potential or well defined weaknesses and for which 

there is a high likelihood of orderly repayment, are updated at least 
annually based on the size and credit characteristics of the borrower. 
All other categories are updated on a quarterly basis during the 

month preceding the end of the calendar quarter.  
The Bancorp assigns a special mention rating to loans and 
leases that have potential weaknesses that deserve management™s 

close attention. If left uncorrected, these potential weaknesses may, 

at some future date, result in th
e deterioration of the repayment 
prospects for the loan or lease or the Bancorp™s credit position.  
The Bancorp assigns a substandard rating to loans and leases 
that are inadequately protected 
by the current sound worth and 
paying capacity of the borrower or of the collateral pledged. 
Substandard loans and leases have well defined weaknesses or 

weaknesses that could jeopardize the orderly repayment of the debt. 

Loans and leases in this grade also
 are characterized by the distinct 
possibility that the Bancorp will sustain some loss if the deficiencies 

noted are not addressed and corrected. 
The Bancorp assigns a doubtful ra
ting to loans and leases that 
have all the attributes of a substandard rating with the added 
characteristic that the weaknesses make collection or liquidation in 
full, on the basis of currently existi
ng facts, conditions, and values, 
highly questionable and improbable. The possibility of loss is 

extremely high, but because of cer
tain important and reasonable 
specific pending factors that may work to the advantage of and 

strengthen the credit quality of the loan or lease, its classification as 

an estimated loss is deferred until its more exact status may be 

determined. Pending factors may include a proposed merger or 
acquisition, liquidation proceeding, 
capital injection, perfecting liens 
on additional collateral or refinancing plans. Loans and leases classified as 
loss are considered uncollectible 
and are charged-off in the period in which they are determined to be 

uncollectible. Because loans and leas
es in this category are fully 
charged-off, they are not included in the following tables. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  107  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following tables summarize the credit risk profile 
of the Bancorp™s commercial portfolio segment, by class:
                                   Special            As of December 31, 2015 ($ in millions)
    Pass Mention 
Substandard 
Doubtful 
Total 
Commercial and industrial loans
  $ 38,756 
 1,633 
 1,742 
 - 
   42,131 
 Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans
     3,344 
 124 
 191 
 - 
   3,659 
 Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans 
     3,105 
 63 
 130 
 - 
   3,298 
 Commercial construction loans
     3,201 
 4 
 9 
 - 
   3,214 
 Commercial leases
     3,724 
 93 
 37 
 - 
   3,854 
 Total commercial loans and leases
  $ 52,130 
 1,917 
 2,109 
 - 
   56,156 
                                  Special            As of December 31, 2014
 ($ in millions)
    Pass Mention 
Substandard 
Doubtful 
Total 
Commercial and industrial loans
  $ 38,013 
 1,352 
 1,400 
 - 
   40,765 
 Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans
     3,430 
 137 
 267 
 - 
   3,834 
 Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans 
     3,198 
 76 
 284 
 7 
   3,565 
 Commercial construction loans
     1,966 
 65 
 38 
 - 
   2,069 
 Commercial leases
     3,678 
 9 
 33 
 - 
   3,720 
 Total commercial loans and leases
  $ 50,285 
 1,639 
 2,022 
 7 
   53,953 
Residential Mortgage and Consumer Portfolio Segments 
For purposes of monitoring the credit quality and risk 
characteristics of its consumer portfolio segment, the Bancorp 

disaggregates the segment into the following classes: home equity, 

automobile loans, credit card an
d other consumer loans and leases. 
The Bancorp™s residential mortgage portfolio segment is also a 

separate class. 
The Bancorp considers repayment performance as the best 
indicator of credit quality for residential mortgage and consumer 
loans, which includes both the de
linquency status and performing 
versus nonperforming status of the 
loans. The delinquency status of 
all residential mortgage and consumer loans is presented by class in 

the age analysis section while the performing versus nonperforming 

status is presented in the followi
ng table. Refer to the nonaccrual 
loans and leases section of Note 1 for additional delinquency and 

nonperforming information.  
                     The following table presents a summary of the Bancorp™s resident
ial mortgage and consumer portfolio segments, by class, disaggr
egated into 
performing versus nonperforming status as of December 31:
                           2015 
 2014 
 ($ in millions)
    Performing
 Nonperforming 
Performing 
Nonperforming 
Residential mortgage loans
(a) $ 13,498 
 51 
 12,204 
 77 
  Home equity     8,222 
 79 
 8,793 
 93 
  Automobile loans
     11,491 
 2 
 12,036 
 1 
  Credit card     2,226 
 33 
 2,360 
 41 
  Other consumer loans and leases
     657 
 - 
 418 
 - 
  Total residential mortgage and consumer loans and leases
(a) $ 36,094 
 165 
 35,811 
 212 
(a) Excludes $167
 and $108 of loans measured at fair value at 
December 31, 2015
 and 2014, respectively. 
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  108  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Age Analysis of Past Due Loans and Leases   The following tables summarize the Bancorp™s recorded in
vestment in portfolio loans and leases, by age and class:
                Current
  Past Due
    90 Days Past 
   Loans and 
  30-89 
  90 Days 
  Total 
 Total Loans 
Due and Still 
As of December 31, 2015 ($ in millions)
  Leases(c)
 Days
(c) 
or More
(c) 
Past Due
 and Leases 
Accruing Commercial loans and leases:
                     Commercial and industrial loans 
  $ 41,996 
    55 
    80 
    135 
   42,131 
   7 
    Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans
   3,610 
    15 
    34 
    49 
   3,659 
   - 
    Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans
   3,262 
    9 
    27 
    36 
   3,298 
   - 
    Commercial construction loans
   3,214 
    - 
    - 
    - 
   3,214 
   - 
    Commercial leases
   3,850 
    3 
    1 
    4 
   3,854 
   - 
  Residential mortgage loans
(a)(b)
  13,420 
    37 
    92 
    129 
   13,549 
   40 
  Consumer loans and leases:
                               Home equity   8,158 
    82 
    61 
    143 
   8,301 
   - 
    Automobile loans
   11,407 
    75 
    11 
    86 
   11,493 
   10 
    Credit card   2,207 
    29 
    23 
    52 
   2,259 
   18 
    Other consumer loans and leases 
   656 
    1 
    - 
    1 
   657 
   - 
  Total portfolio loans and leases
(a) $ 91,780 
    306 
    329 
    635 
   92,415 
   75 
  (a) Excludes $167
 of residential mortgage loans measured at fair value at 
December 31, 2015
. (b) Information includes advances made pursuant to servicing agreements
 for GNMA mortgage pools whose repayments are insured by the
 FHA or guaranteed by the VA. As of 
December 31, 
2015
, $102
 of these loans were 30-89 days past due and 
$335
 were 90 days or more past due. The Bancorp recognized 
$8 of losses during the year ended 
December 31, 2015
 due to claim 
denials and curtailments associated with these insured or guaranteed loans.  
(c) Includes accrual and nonaccrual loans and leases. 
                           Current
  Past Due
    90 Days Past 
   Loans and 
  30-89
  90 Days 
  Total 
 Total Loans 
Due and Still 
As of December 31, 2014
 ($ in millions)
  Leases(c)
 Days
(c) 
or More
(c) 
Past Due
 and Leases 
Accruing Commercial loans and leases:
                     Commercial and industrial loans 
  $40,651 
29 
   85 
114 
  40,765 
   - 
    Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans
  3,774 
7    53 
60 
  3,834 
   - 
    Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans
  3,537 
11 
   17 
28 
  3,565 
   - 
    Commercial construction loans
  2,069 
 - 
    - 
 - 
  2,069 
   - 
    Commercial leases
  3,717 
3     - 
3   3,720 
   - 
  Residential mortgage loans
(a)(b)
 12,109 
38 
   134 
172 
  12,281 
  56 
  Consumer loans and leases:
                            Home equity  8,710 
100 
   76 
176 
  8,886 
   - 
    Automobile loans
  11,953 
74 
   10 
84 
  12,037 
  8     Credit card  2,335 
34 
   32 
66 
  2,401 
  23 
    Other consumer loans and leases 
  417 
1     - 
1   418 
   - 
  Total portfolio loans and leases
(a) $89,272 
   297 
   407 
   704 
  89,976 
  87 
  (a) Excludes $108 of residential mortgage loans me
asured at fair value at December 31, 2014. 
(b) Information includes advances made pursuant to servicing agreements
 for GNMA mortgage pools whose repayments are insured by the
 FHA or guaranteed by the VA
. As of December 31, 2014, 
$99 of these loans were 30-89 days past due and $373 were 90 days
 or more past due. The Bancorp recognized $14 of losses during
 the year ended December 31, 2014 due to claim denials and 
curtailments associated with these 
insured or guaranteed loans.  
(c) Includes accrual and nonaccrual loans and leases. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  109  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Impaired Portfolio Loans and Leases 
Larger commercial loans and leases
 included within aggregate 
borrower relationship balances ex
ceeding $1 million that exhibit 
probable or observed credit weakne
sses are subject to individual 
review for impairment. The Bancor
p also performs an individual 
review on loans and leases that are restructured in a TDR. The 
Bancorp considers the current value of collateral, credit quality of 
any guarantees, the loan structure and other factors when 
evaluating whether an individual lo
an or lease is impaired. Other 
factors may include the geography and industry of the borrower, 

size and financial condition of the borrower, cash flow and 

leverage of the borrower and th
e Bancorp™s evaluation of the 
borrower™s management. Smaller-balance homogenous loans or 

leases that are collectively evaluated for impairment are not 
included in the following tables.                   The following tables summarize the Bancorp™s impaired portfolio lo
ans and leases, by class, that were subject to individual rev
iew, which includes
all portfolio loans and leases restru
ctured in a TDR as of December 31:
                             Unpaid
                Principal
 Recorded       2015 ($ in millions)
      Balance
 Investment  ALLL With a related ALLL:
                       Commercial loans and leases:
                Commercial and industrial loans 
        $412 
  346 
84    Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans
(b)       28 
  21 5    Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans
        75 
  64 
   12    Commercial construction loans
        4   4    2    Commercial leases
        3   3    1  Restructured residential mortgage loans
        450 
  444 
67  Restructured consumer
 loans and leases:
                  Home equity        226 
  225 
32    Automobile loans
        17   16 2    Credit card        61   61 15  Total impaired portfolio loans and leases with a related ALLL
        $1,276 
  1,184    220
  With no related ALLL:
                     Commercial loans and leases:
                  Commercial and industrial loans 
        $228 
  182     -    Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans
        54 
  51     -    Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans
        126   111     -    Commercial construction loans
        9   5     -    Commercial leases
        1   1     -  Restructured residential mortgage loans
        210 
  186    -  Restructured consumer
 loans and leases:
                       Home equity        122   119     -    Automobile loans
        3   3     -  Total impaired portfolio loans and leases with no related ALLL
        753 
  658 
    -  Total impaired portfolio loans and leases
        $2,029 
  1,842 
a(a)
220
  (a) Includes $491, $607
 and 
$372
, respectively, of commercial, residential mortgage and consumer portfolio TDRs on accrual status and 
$203
, $23
 and 
$52
, respectively, of commercial, residential 
mortgage and consumer portfolio TDRs on nonaccrual status at 
December 31, 2015
.  (b) Excludes five restructured loans at 
December 31, 2015
 associated with a consolidated VIE in which the Bancorp has no 
continuing credit risk
 due to the risk being assumed by a third
 party, 
with an unpaid principal balance of 
$27
, a recorded investment of 
$27
 and an ALLL of 
$15
.   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  110  Fifth Third Bancorp 
              Unpaid
                    Principal
 Recorded       2014 ($ in millions)
          Balance
 Investment  ALLL With a related ALLL:
                       Commercial loans and leases:
            Commercial and industrial loans 
  $598 
  486 
149
    Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans
(b)         54 
  46 
14    Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans
  69 
  57 
4    Commercial construction loans
  18 
  15 
 -    Commercial leases
  3   3 2  Restructured residential mortgage loans
  388 
  383 
65  Restructured consumer
 loans and leases:
              Home equity  203 
  201 
42    Automobile loans
  19 
  19 
3    Credit card  78 
  78 
16  Total impaired portfolio loans and leases with a related ALLL
          $1,430 
  1,288 
   295
  With no related ALLL:
                       Commercial loans and leases:
            Commercial and industrial loans 
          $311 
  276 
    -    Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans
          72 
  68 
    -    Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans
          251 
  231 
    -    Commercial construction loans
          48 
  48 
    -    Commercial leases
          2   2     -  Restructured residential mortgage loans
          155 
  135 
   -  Restructured consumer
 loans and leases:
                         Home equity          183 
  180 
    -    Automobile loans
          5   5     -  Total impaired portfolio loans and leases with no related ALLL
          1,027 
  945 
    -  Total impaired portfolio loans and leases
          $2,457 
  2,233 
a(a)295
  (a) Includes $869, $485 and $420, resp
ectively, of commercial, residential mortgage and consumer portfolio TDRs on accrual status a
nd $214, $33 and $63, respectively, of commercial, residential 
mortgage and consumer portfolio TDRs on no
naccrual status at December 31, 2014.   
(b) Excludes five restructured loans at December
 31, 2014 associated with a consolidated 
VIE in which the Bancorp has no continuing
 credit risk due to the risk being assumed by a third party, with 
an unpaid principal balance of $28, a recorded
 investment of $28 and an ALLL of $10. 
 The following table summarizes the Bancorp™s average impaired portf
olio loans and leases, by class, and interest income, by cla
ss, for the years 
ended December 31:
                                           2015 
  2014 
   2013  
          Average Interest 
 Average 
Interest 
  Average 
Interest 
          Recorded Income 
 Recorded Income 
  Recorded Income 
 ($ in millions)
      Investment Recognized 
 Investment 
Recognized 
  Investment 
Recognized
 Commercial loans and leases:
                                    Commercial and industrial loans 
  $ 663
   21    786
    25 
   517
    16
    Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans
(a)  92
   2    149
    4 
   146
    4    Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans
   224
   7    268
    8 
   321
    8    Commercial construction loans
   41   1    92
    2 
   108
    4    Commercial leases
   5   -    13
    - 
   11
    -  Restructured residential mortgage loans
   586
   23
    1,273
    54 
   1,311
    53
  Restructured consumer
 loans and leases:
                                  Home equity   361
   13
    394
    20 
   429
    23
    Automobile loans
   22
   1    24
    1 
   29
    1    Credit card   68
   6    62
    5 
   68
    4    Other consumer loans and leases 
   -   -    -    - 
   2    -  Total average impaired portfolio loans and leases
  $ 2,062
   74
    3,061
    119 
   2,942
    113
  (a) Excludes five restructured loans associated 
with a consolidated VIE in which the Bancor
p has no continuing credit risk due to t
he risk being assumed by a third party, with an average recorded 
investment of 
$27
 for the year ended 
December 31, 2015 
and $28 for both of the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013. An 
immaterial amount of interest income was recognized during t
he years ended December 31, 2015
, 2014 and 2013.  
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  111  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Nonperforming Assets 
Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans and leases for whic
h ultimate collectability of the full amount of the principal 
and/or interest is
uncertain; restructured commercial and credit card loans which have
 not yet met the requirements to be classified as a performi
ng asset; 
restructured consumer loans which are 90 days past due based on
 the restructured terms unless the loan is both well-secured and
 in the process o
f collection; and certain other assets, including OREO and other re
possessed property. The following table presents the Bancorp™s
 nonperformin
g loans and leases, by class, and OREO and other repossessed property as of December 31:
         ($ in millions)
  2015 
 2014 
 Commercial loans and leases:
        Commercial and industrial loans 
  $ 259 
   228 
  Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans
(a)   46 
   78 
  Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans
   35 
   57 
  Commercial leases
   1 
   4 
Total nonaccrual portfolio commercial loans and leases
   341 
   367 
  Residential mortgage loans
   51 
   77 
Consumer loans and leases:
          Home equity   79 
   93 
  Automobile loans
   2 
   1 
  Credit card   33 
   41 
Total nonaccrual portfolio consumer loans and leases
   114 
   135 
  Total nonaccrual portfolio loans and leases
(b)(c)
 $ 506 
   579 
  OREO and other repossessed property
(d)  141 
   165 
  Total nonperforming portfolio assets
(b)(c)(d)
 $ 647 
   744 
  (a) Excludes $20
 and $21 of restructured nonaccrual loans at 
December 31, 2015 
and 2014, respectively,
 associated with a consolidated VIE in which 
the Bancorp has no cont
inuing credit risk 
due the risk being assumed by a third party.  
(b) Excludes $12 
and $39 of nonaccrual loans held for sale at 
December 31, 2015
 and 2014, respectively. 
(c) Includes $6 and $9 of nonaccrual government insured commercial 
loans whose repayments are insured by the SBA at 
December 31, 2015 
and 2014, respectively, and 
$2 and $4 of restructured 
nonaccrual government insured commercial loans at 
December 31, 2015
 and 2014, respectively.  
(d) Excludes $14
 and $71 of OREO related to government insured loans at 
December 31, 2015
 and 2014, respectively. The Bancorp has histor
ically excluded government guaranteed loans 
classified in OREO from its nonperforming asset disclosures. Up
on the prospective adoption on Ja
nuary 1, 2015 of ASU 2014-14 ﬁC
lassification of Certain Gove
rnment-Guaranteed Mortgage 
Loans Upon Foreclosureﬂ, government guaranteed loans meeting cert
ain criteria were reclassified to other receivables rather tha
n OREO upon foreclosure. At 
December 31, 2015
, the Bancorp 
had $44
 of government guaranteed loans classified as other receivables.
 Refer to Note 1 for further information on the adoption of thi
s amended guidance.  
  The Bancorp™s recorded investment of consumer mortgage loans 
secured by residential real estate properties for which formal 

foreclosure proceedings are in process according to local 

requirements of the applicable jurisdiction was $303 million as of 
December 31, 2015. 
 Troubled Debt Restructurings  
If a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty, the Bancorp may 

consider, in certain circumstances, modifying the terms of their loan 

to maximize collection of amou
nts due. Within each of the 
Bancorp™s loan classes, TDRs typically involve either a reduction of 

the stated interest rate of the loan, an extension of the loan™s 
maturity date with a stated rate lower than the current market rate 
for a new loan with similar risk, or in limited circumstances, a 

reduction of the principal balance of
 the loan or the loan™s accrued 
interest. Modifying the terms of a loan may result in an increase or 

decrease to the ALLL depending upon the terms modified, the 

method used to measure the ALLL fo
r a loan prior to modification, 
and whether any charge-offs were recorded on the loan before or at 

the time of modification. Refer to the ALLL section of Note 1 for 
information on the Bancorp™s ALLL methodology. Upon 
modification of a loan, the Bancorp measures the related 
impairment as the difference between the estimated future cash 

flows expected to be collected on 
the modified loan, discounted at 
the original effective yield of the 
loan, and the carrying value of the 
loan. The resulting measurement may result in the need for minimal 
or no valuation allowance because it is probable that all cash flows 

will be collected under the modified
 terms of the loan. In addition, 
if the stated interest rate was increased in a TDR, the cash flows on 

the modified loan, using the pre-modification interest rate as the 

discount rate, often exceed the recorded investment of the loan.  

Conversely, upon a modification that 
reduces the stated interest rate 
on a loan, the Bancorp recognizes an
 impairment loss as an increase 
to the ALLL. If a TDR involves a 
reduction of the principal balance 
of the loan or the loan™s accrued in
terest, that amount is charged-off 
to the ALLL. 
As of December 31, 2015, the 
Bancorp had $39 million and 
$23 million in line of credit and letter of credit commitments, 

respectively, compared to $63 million and $26 million in line of 

credit and letter of credit commitments as of December 31, 2014, 

respectively, to lend additional funds to borrowers whose terms 
have been modified in a TDR.   
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  112  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following tables provide a summary of loans by class modifi
ed in a TDR by the Bancorp during the years ended December 31:
                       Recorded investment
 Increase          Number of loans
  in loans modified
 (Decrease) Charge-offs 
     modified in a TDR
  in a TDR 
 to ALLL upon
recognized upon  
2015 ($ in millions)
(a)
 during the year(b) during the year modification 
modification 
Commercial loans and leases:
                Commercial and industrial loans 
   77 
   $ 146 
   7 
   3    Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans
   18 
    16 
   (2)
   -    Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans
   12 
    7 
   (1)
   -  Residential mortgage loans
   1,089 
    155 
   8 
   -  Consumer loans and leases:
                     Home equity   267 
    16 
   (1)
   -    Automobile loans
   440 
    7 
   1 
   -    Credit card   12,569 
    62 
   11 
   7  Total portfolio loans and leases
   14,472 
   $ 409 
   23 
   10
  (a) Excludes all loans and leases held for sale and loans acquired wi
th deteriorated credit quality which were accounted for within
 a pool. 
(b) Represents number of loans post-modification and 
excludes loans previously modified in a TDR.
                       Recorded investment
 Increase          Number of loans
  in loans modified
 (Decrease) Charge-offs 
     modified in a TDR
  in a TDR 
 to ALLL upon
recognized upon  
2014 ($ in millions)
(a) during the year(b) 
during the year modification 
modification 
Commercial loans and leases:
                Commercial and industrial loans 
   128 
   $ 230 
   12 
   6    Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans
   32 
    54 
   (1)
   -    Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans
   28 
    30 
   (3)
   2  Residential mortgage loans
   1,093 
    160 
   8 
   -  Consumer loans and leases:
                     Home equity   284 
    12 
   - 
   -    Automobile loans
   608 
    10 
   1 
   -    Credit card   8,929 
    52 
   10 
   -  Total portfolio loans and leases
   11,102 
   $ 548 
   27 
   8  (a) Excludes all loans and leases held for sale and loans acquired wi
th deteriorated credit quality which were accounted for within
 a pool. 
(b) Represents number of loans post-modification and 
excludes loans previously modified in a TDR.
                       Recorded investment
 Increase          Number of loans
  in loans modified
 (Decrease) Charge-offs 
     modified in a TDR
  in a TDR 
 to ALLL upon
recognized upon  
2013 ($ in millions)
(a) during the year(b) 
during the year modification 
modification 
Commercial loans and leases:
                Commercial and industrial loans 
   146 
   $ 604 
   39 
   44
    Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans
(c)  65 
    19 
   (2)
   -    Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans
   59 
    72 
   (7)
   -    Commercial construction loans
   4 
    34 
   (2)
   -    Commercial leases
   1 
    2 
   (5)
   -  Residential mortgage loans
   1,620 
    249 
   28 
   -  Consumer loans and leases:
                     Home equity   695 
    37 
   (1)
   -    Automobile loans
   499 
    14 
   1 
   -    Credit card   8,202 
    50 
   7 
   -  Total portfolio loans and leases
   11,291 
   $ 1,081 
   58 
   44
  (a) Excludes all loans and leases held for sale and loans acquired wi
th deteriorated credit quality which were accounted for within
 a pool. 
(b) Represents number of loans post-modification and 
excludes loans previously modified in a TDR.
 (c) Excludes five loans modified in a TDR during the year ended December 31,
 2013
 associated with a consolidated VIE in which the Bancorp 
has no continuing credit risk due to the risk being 
assumed by a third party. The TDR had a recorded investment of $
29 at modification, the ALLL increased $7 upon modification and
 a charge-off of $2 was recognized upon modification.
 The Bancorp considers TDRs that become 90 days or more past 
due under the modified terms as subsequently defaulted. For 

commercial loans not subject to individual review for impairment, 

loss rates that are applied for pu
rposes of determining the ALLL 
include historical losses associated with subsequent defaults on 
loans previously modified in a 
TDR. For consumer loans, the 
Bancorp performs a qualitative a
ssessment of the adequacy of the 
consumer ALLL by comparing the 
consumer ALLL to forecasted 
consumer losses over the projected loss emergence period (the 
forecasted losses include the impact of subsequent defaults of 

consumer TDRs). When a residential mortgage, home equity, 

automobile or other consumer loan
 that has been modified in a 
TDR subsequently defaults, the present value of expected cash 
flows used in the measurement of the potential impairment loss is 

generally limited to the expected net proceeds from the sale of the 

loan™s underlying collateral and an
y resulting impairment loss is 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  113  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 reflected as a charge-off or an increase in ALLL. The Bancorp 
recognizes ALLL for the entire b
alance of the credit card loans 
modified in a TDR that subsequently default.          The following tables provide a summary of TDRs that subseque
ntly defaulted during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2
013 that was
within twelve months of the restructuring date:
               Number of
 Recorded December 31, 2015 ($ in millions)
(a)
 Contracts
 Investment 
Commercial loans and leases:
        Commercial and industrial loans 
   7 
  $ 11 
    Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans
   3 
   1 
  Residential mortgage loans
   156 
   21 
  Consumer loans and leases:
            Home equity   15 
   1 
    Automobile loans
   8 
   - 
    Credit card   1,935 
   8 
  Total portfolio loans and leases
   2,124 
  $ 42 
  (a) Excludes all loans and leases held for sale and lo
ans acquired with deteriorated credit quality. 
              Number of
 Recorded December 31, 2014 ($ in millions)
(a) Contracts
 Investment 
Commercial loans and leases:
        Commercial and industrial loans 
   11 
  $ 36 
    Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans
   3 
   4 
    Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans
   2 
   1 
  Residential mortgage loans
   235 
   32 
  Consumer loans and leases:
            Home equity   30 
   2 
    Automobile loans
   6 
   - 
    Credit card   2,059 
   12 
  Total portfolio loans and leases
   2,346 
  $ 87 
  (a) Excludes all loans and leases held for sale and lo
ans acquired with deteriorated credit quality. 
              Number of
 Recorded December 31, 2013 ($ in millions)
(a) Contracts
 Investment 
Commercial loans and leases:
        Commercial and industrial loans 
   6 
  $ 11 
    Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans
   7 
   1 
  Residential mortgage loans
   375 
   58 
  Consumer loans and leases:
            Home equity   65 
   4 
    Automobile loans
   4 
   - 
    Credit card   1,768 
   11 
  Total portfolio loans and leases
   2,225 
  $ 85 
  (a) Excludes all loans and leases held for sale and lo
ans acquired with deteriorated credit quality. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  114  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 7. BANK PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT 
The following table provides a summary of bank premises and equipment as of December 31:
        ($ in millions)
    Estimated Useful Life
 2015 
2014
Land and improvements
(a)   $685 
793
Buildings
    2 - 30 yrs.
 1,755 
1,807
Equipment    2 - 30 yrs.
 1,696 
1,682
Leasehold improvements
    5 - 30 yrs.
 403 
416
Construction in progress
      85 
98Bank premises and equipment held for sale:
               Land and improvements
      55 
23     Buildings
      20 
3     Equipment
      3  -     Leasehold improvements
      3  -Accumulated depreciation and amortization
      (2,466)
(2,357)
Total bank premises and equipment
      $2,239 
2,465
(a) At December 31, 2015
 and 2014, land and improvements included 
$102 
and $165, respectively, associated with parcels of und
eveloped land intended for future branch expansion. 
Depreciation and amortization expense related to bank premises 
and equipment was $256 million, $254 million and $245 million for 
the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.  
The Bancorp monitors changing customer preferences 
associated with the channels it uses for banking transactions to 

evaluate the efficiency, competitiven
ess and quality of the customer 
service experience in its consumer 
distribution network. As part of 
this ongoing assessment, the Bancorp may determine that it is no 

longer fully committed to maint
aining full-service branches at 
certain of its existing banking center locations. Similarly, the 
Bancorp may also determine that it is no longer fully committed to 

building banking centers on certain parcels of land which had 

previously been held for future branch expansion. On June 16, 

2015, the Bancorp™s Board of Directors authorized management to 

pursue a plan to further develop it
s distribution strategy, including a 
plan to consolidate and/or sell certain operating branch locations 

and certain parcels of undeveloped land that had been acquired by 
the Bancorp for future branch expansion (the ﬁBranch 
Consolidation and Sales Planﬂ). 
On September 3, 2015, the Bancorp announced the decision to 
enter into an agreement to sell branch banking locations, retail 

accounts, certain private banking deposits and related loan 
relationships in the Pittsburgh MSA to First National Bank of 
Pennsylvania. On September 30, 2015, the Bancorp announced the 
decision to enter into an agreement to sell its retail operations, 

including retail accounts, cert
ain private banking deposits and 
related loan relationships in the 
St. Louis MSA to Great Southern 
Bank. Both transactions are part of the Branch Consolidation and 

Sales Plan and are expected to clos
e in the first half of 2016. As of 
December 31, 2015, the Bancorp intended to consolidate and/or 

sell 107 operating branch locations and to sell an additional 32 
parcels of undeveloped land that had been acquired by the Bancorp 
for future branch expansion. For further information on a 

subsequent event related to the 
Branch Consolidation and Sales 
Plan, refer to Note 31. The Bancorp performs assessments of the recoverability of 
long-lived assets when events or 
changes in circumstances indicate 
that their carrying values may not be recoverable. Impairment losses 

associated with such assessments and lower of cost or market 
adjustments were $109 million, $20 million and $6 million for the 
years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The 

recognized impairment losses were recorded in other noninterest 

income in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  115  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following table summarizes the assets and 
liabilities classified as held for sale as
 a result of the Branch Consolidation a
nd Sales Plan as of:               ($ in millions)
    December 31, 2015
(d)Assets:            Loans held for sale:
             Commercial and industrial loans
    $20      Commercial mortgage loans
    22      Residential mortgage loans
    188
      Home equity    35      Automobile loans
    4  Total loans held for sale
(a)   $269
    Bank premises and equipment held for 
sale (included in 
the preceding table):
             Land and improvements
(b)   25      Buildings
(b)
   14      Equipment(b)   3      Leasehold improvements
(b)   3  Total bank premises and e
quipment held for sale (inc
luded in the preceding table)
    $45  Total assets held for sale
    $314
  Liabilities:
           Deposits held for sale:
             Noninterest-bearing deposits
    $117
      Interest-bearing deposits
      511
  Total deposits held for sale
(c)
   $628
  Total liabilities held for sale
    $628
  (a) Included in loans held for sale in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
(b) Included in bank premises and equipment 
in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
(c) Included in noninterest-bearing deposits and interest-b
earing deposits in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
(d) Included in the Branch Banking, Consumer Lend
ing and Investment Advisors business segments.  
  Gross occupancy expense for cancelable and noncancelable leases, 
which is included in net occupa
ncy expense in the Consolidated 
Statements of Income, was $110 
million, $100 million and $98 
million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, 

respectively, which was reduced by rental income from leased 
premises of $18 million, $17 million and $16 million during the 
years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The 

Bancorp™s subsidiaries have entered into a number of noncancelable 

operating and capital lease agreements with respect to bank 

premises and equipment. 
        The following table provides the annual futu
re minimum payments under noncancelable opera
ting leases and capital leases for the
 years ending 
December 31:     ($ in millions)
  Noncancelable 
Operating Leases
 Capital Leases 2016 
$91 
 7 2017 
84 
 6 2018 
82 
 6 2019 
74 
  5 
2020 
62 
  1 
Thereafter 242 
  2 
Total minimum lease payments 
$635 
 27 
Less: Amounts representing interest 
  - 
 3 Present value of net mi
nimum lease payments 
  - 
24 
        8. OPERATING LEASE EQUIPMENT 
As part of a periodic review of long-lived assets for impairment 
associated with operating lease a
ssets, during the first quarter of 
2015, the Bancorp identified an impairment regarding certain 

medium and large cabin corporate aircraft subject to leases expiring 

in 2017 and later. After applying the appropriate tests under current 

accounting guidance, it was determ
ined that such recoverability was 
in doubt and the assets had, in fa
ct, been impaired. The impact of 
the impairment was $30 million which was recognized as a 
reduction to corporate banking 
revenue in the Consolidated 
Statements of Income during the first quarter of 2015 as such 
diminution in value of the assets 
was associated with both the first 
quarter of 2015 and prior periods. The Bancorp assessed the 

materiality of this impairment and 
concluded it was immaterial to 
interim amounts during the first quarter of 2015 and previously 

reported annual and interim amounts. During the second and third 

quarters of 2015, the Bancorp recorded $4 million and $2 million, 

respectively, of impairment associat
ed with operating lease assets. 
The impact of the impairments was recognized as a reduction to 
corporate banking revenue in the Consolidated Statements of 

Income.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  116  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 9. GOODWILL Business combinations entered into 
by the Bancorp typically include 
the acquisition of goodwill. Acquisition activity includes acquisitions 
in the respective period in addition to purchase accounting 
adjustments related to previous 
acquisitions. During the fourth 
quarter of 2008, the Bancorp determined that the Commercial 

Banking and Consumer Lending repor
ting units™ goodwill carrying 
amounts exceeded their associated implied fair values by $750 
million and $215 million, respectively. The resulting $965 million 
goodwill impairment charge was reco
rded in the fourth quarter of 
2008 and represents the total amount of accumulated impairment 

losses as of December 31, 2015.              Changes in the net carrying amount of goodwill, by reporting
 unit, for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were as follo
ws:                 Commercial 
Branch Consumer 
Investment 
  ($ in millions) 
 Banking 
Banking 
Lending 
Advisors Total 
Net carrying value as of December 31, 2013 
$613
1,655 
             -
148 
2,416
Acquisition activit
y  - - 
             -
             -
 -Net carrying value as of December 31, 2014 
$613
1,655 
             -
148 
2,416
Acquisition activit
y   - - 
             -
           -
 -Net carrying value as of December 31, 2015
 $6131,655 
             -
148 2,416
   The Bancorp completed its annual goodwill impairment test as of 
September 30, 2015 and the estimated 
fair values of the Commercial 
Banking, Branch Banking and In
vestment Advisors reporting units 
substantially exceeded their carry
ing values, including goodwill.
  10. INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
Intangible assets consist of core 
deposit intangibles, customer lists, 
non-compete agreements and cardholder relationships. Intangible 

assets are amortized on either a straight-line or an accelerated basis 
over their estimated useful lives. In
tangible assets have an estimated 
remaining weighted-average life at December 31, 2015 of 4.3 years.  
       The details of the Bancorp™s intangible assets are shown in the following table: 
            Gross Carrying 
Accumulated  
Net Carrying 
($ in millions)  
Amount 
Amortization 
 Amount 
As of December 31, 2015
               Core deposit intangibles 
$34(26)8  Other 33(29)4Total intangible assets
 $67(55)12As of December 31, 2014
   Core deposit intangibles 
$122
(112)
10  Other 45(40)
5Total intangible assets 
$167
(152)
15    As of December 31, 2015, all of the Bancorp™s intangible assets 
were being amortized. Amortization expense recognized on 
intangible assets for the yea
rs ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 
2013 was $2 million, $4 million and $8 million, respectively. 
    The Bancorp's projections of amortization 
expense shown below are based on existing 
asset balances as of December 31, 2015. Fut
ure
amortization expense may vary from these 
projections. Estimated amortization expense for the years ending December 31, 2016 thr
ough 2020 is 
as follows:                ($ in millions) 
       Total 
2016  
      $2   2017  
         2   2018  
         2   2019  
         1   2020  
         1   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  117  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 11. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES 
The Bancorp, in the normal course of business, engages in a variety 
of activities that involve VIEs, which are legal entities that lack 

sufficient equity to finance their acti
vities or the equity investors of 
the entities as a group lack any of 
the characteristics of a controlling 
interest. The primary beneficiary of a VIE is generally the enterprise 
that has both the power to direct th
e activities most significant to 
the economic performance of the VIE and the obligation to absorb 

losses or receive benefits that coul
d potentially be significant to the 
VIE. For certain investment funds,
 the primary beneficiary is the 
enterprise that will absorb a majo
rity of the fund™s expected losses 
or receive a majority of the fund
™s expected residual returns. The 
Bancorp evaluates its interest in cert
ain entities to determine if these 
entities meet the definition of a VIE and whether the Bancorp is the 

primary beneficiary and should consolidate the entity based on the 

variable interests it held both at inception and when there is a 
change in circumstances that re
quires a reconsideration. If the 
Bancorp is determined to be the primary beneficiary of a VIE, it 

must account for the VIE as a consolidated subsidiary. If the 

Bancorp is determined not to be the primary beneficiary of a VIE 

but holds a variable interest in the 
entity, such variable interests are 
accounted for under the equity method of accounting or other 

accounting standards as appropriate.    Consolidated VIEs
              The following tables provide a summary of
 the classifications of consolidated VIE assets, liabilities and noncontrolling intere
sts included in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of:
        Automobile Loan 
CDC     December 31, 2015 ($ in millions)
  Securitizations 
Investments Total 
Assets: 
             Cash and due from banks 
$ 151 
   1 
 152 
  Commercial mortgage loans
   - 
 47 
47 
  Automobile loans
   2,490 
   - 
 2,490 
  ALLL  (11)  (17)  (28)  Other assets   20 
   - 
20 
  Total assets
 $ 2,650 
  31   2,681 
  Liabilities:
          Other liabilities
 $ 3 
   - 
 3 
  Long-term debt
   2,493 
   - 
 2,493 
  Total liabilities
 $ 2,496 
   - 
 2,496 
  Noncontrolling interests
 $ - 
   31 
31                      Automobile Loan
 CDC     December 31, 2014 ($ in millions)
    Securitizations
 Investments Total 
Assets:                Cash and due from banks
  $  178 
   1 
 179 
  Commercial mortgage loans
     - 
   47 
 47 
  Automobile loans
     3,331 
   - 
 3,331 
  ALLL     (11)
   (11)
   (22)
  Other assets     23 
   2 
 25 
  Total assets
  $  3,521 
   39 
   3,560 
  Liabilities:
                Other liabilities
  $  5 
   - 
 5 
  Long-term debt
     3,434 
   - 
 3,434 
  Total liabilities
  $  3,439 
   - 
   3,439 
  Noncontrolling interests
  $  - 
   39 
 39 
                   Automobile Loan Securitizations 
In securitization transactions that
 occurred during the years ended 
December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Bancorp transferred an aggregate 

amount of approximately $750 milli
on and $3.8 billion, respectively, 
in consumer automobile loans to
 bankruptcy remote trusts which 
were deemed to be VIEs. The primary purposes of the VIEs were 

to issue asset-backed securities 
with varying levels of credit 
subordination and payment priority, as 
well as residual interests, and 
to provide the Bancorp with access 
to liquidity for its originated 
loans. The Bancorp retained residual interests in the VIEs and, 

therefore, has an obligation to abso
rb losses and a right to receive 
benefits from the VIEs that could potentially be significant to the 

VIEs. In addition, the Bancorp retained servicing rights for the 

underlying loans and, therefore,
 holds the power to direct the 
activities of the VIEs that most significantly impact the economic 

performance of the VIEs. As a result, the Bancorp concluded that it 
is the primary beneficiary of the VIEs and, therefore, has 
consolidated these VIEs. The assets of the VIEs are restricted to 
the settlement of the notes and other obligations of the VIEs. 

Third-party holders of the notes do not have recourse to the general 

assets of the Bancorp. 
The economic performance of the VIEs is most significantly 
impacted by the performance of the underlying loans. The principal 

risks to which the VIEs are exposed include credit risk and 

prepayment risk. The credit and prepayment risks are managed 
through credit enhancements in the form of reserve accounts, 
overcollateralization, excess interest on the loans and the 

subordination of certain classes of 
asset-backed securities to other 
classes. 
 CDC Investments 

CDC, a wholly-owned indirect 
subsidiary of the Bancorp, was 
created to invest in projects to create affordable housing, revitalize 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  118  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 business and residential areas and preserve historic landmarks. CDC 
generally co-invests with other unrelated companies and/or 

individuals and typically makes investments in a separate legal entity 

that owns the property under devel
opment. The entities are usually 
formed as limited partnerships and LLCs and CDC typically invests 
as a limited partner/investor member in the form of equity 

contributions. The economic performance of the VIEs is driven by 

the performance of their underlying investment projects as well as 

the VIEs™ ability to operate in
 compliance with the rules and 
regulations necessary for the qualification of tax credits generated by 

equity investments. Typically, the general partner or managing 

member will be the party that has th
e right to make decisions that 
will most significantly impact the economic performance of the 
entity. The Bancorp™s subsidiaries serve as the managing member of 

certain LLCs invested in business revitalization projects. The 

Bancorp has provided an indemnific
ation guarantee to the investor 
member of these LLCs related to 
the qualification of tax credits 
generated by the investor members™ investment. Accordingly, the 
Bancorp concluded that it is the primary beneficiary and, therefore, 

has consolidated these VIEs. As a result, the investor members™ 

interests in these VIEs are presen
ted as noncontrolling interests in 
the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements. This presentation 
includes reporting separately the equity attributable to the 

noncontrolling interests in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and 

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity and reporting 

separately the comprehensive income attributable to the 

noncontrolling interests in the Consolidated Statements of 

Comprehensive Income and the net 
income attributable to the 
noncontrolling interests in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
The Bancorp™s maximum exposure relat
ed to these indemnifications 
at December 31, 2015 and 2014 was $27 million and $24 million, 

respectively, which is based on an amount required to meet the 

investor members™ defined target rate of return.
   Non-consolidated VIEs
              The following tables provide a summary of
 assets and liabilities carried on the Cons
olidated Balance Sheets related to non-cons
olidated VIEs for 
which the Bancorp holds an interest, but is not the primary bene
ficiary of the VIE, as well as the Bancorp™s maximum exposure to
 losses 
associated with its interests in the entities as of: 
                   Total  
Total  
Maximum  
December 31, 2015 ($ in millions)
  Assets 
Liabilities 
Exposure  
CDC investments 
$1,455 
  367 
  1,455 
  Private equity investments
  211    - 
271 
  Loans provided to VIEs
  1,630 
   - 
2,599 
  Automobile loan securitization
   1 
   - 
 1 
       Total  
Total  
Maximum  
December 31, 2014 ($ in millions) 
 Assets 
Liabilities 
Exposure  
CDC investments 
$1,432 
  364 
  1,432 
  Private equity investments 
 189 
   - 
267 
  Loans provided to VIEs 
 1,900 
   - 
2,759 
  Automobile loan securitization 
 2    - 
2              CDC Investments 
As noted previously, CDC typically invests in VIEs as a limited 

partner or investor member in the form of equity contributions. The 

Bancorp has determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of 

these VIEs because it lacks the power
 to direct the activities that 
most significantly impact the economic performance of the 

underlying project or the VIEs™ ability to operate in compliance with 

the rules and regulations necessary for the qualification of tax 
credits generated by equity invest
ments. This power is held by the 
general partners/managing members who exercise full and exclusive 

control of the operations of the VIEs. Accordingly, the Bancorp 

accounts for these investments under the equity method of 

accounting.  The Bancorp™s funding requirements are limited to its invested 
capital and any additional unfunded
 commitments for future equity 
contributions. The Bancorp™s maximum exposure to loss as a result 
of its involvement with the VIEs is limited to the carrying amounts 
of the investments, including the unfunded commitments. The 
carrying amounts of these investments, which are included in other 
assets in the Consolidated Balance 
Sheets, and the liabilities related 
to the unfunded commitments, which are included in other liabilities 

in the Consolidated Balance Sheets,
 are included in the previous 
tables for all periods presented. 
The Bancorp has no other liquidity arrangements or obligations to purchase assets of the VIEs that 

would expose the Bancorp to a loss. In certain arrangements, the 

general partner/managing member of the VIE has guaranteed a 
level of projected tax credits to be received by the limited 
partners/investor members, thereby minimizing a portion of the 

Bancorp™s risk. 
At both December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Bancorp™s CDC 
investments included $1.3 billion of investments in affordable 

housing tax credits recognized in 
other assets in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheets. The unfunded co
mmitments related to these 
investments were $356 million and $357 million as of December 31, 
2015 and 2014, respectively. The unfunded commitments as of 
December 31, 2015 are expected to be funded from 2016 to 2033. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  119  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The Bancorp has accounted for all of its inve
stments in qualified affordable housing ta
x credits using the equity method of acc
ounting. The 
following table summarizes the impact to 
the Consolidated Statements of Income relat
ing to investments in qualified affordable housin
g investments:                             Affected Line Item in the
         For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
    Consolidated Statements of Income
   2015 
   2014  
 2013  
 Pre-tax equity method and impairment losses
(a)   Other noninterest expense
  $126   118 
 90 Tax credits and other benefits
    Applicable income tax expense
    (205)
   (185)
 (164)
 (a) The Bancorp did not recognize impairment lo
sses resulting from the forfeiture or ineligibility of tax credits or other circumst
ances during the years ended 
December 31, 2015, 
2014 and 2013. 
  Private Equity Investments 
The Bancorp, through Fifth Third Capital Holdings, a wholly-

owned indirect subsidiary of the Bancorp, invests as a limited 

partner in private equity funds which provide the Bancorp an 

opportunity to obtain higher rates 
of return on invested capital, 
while also creating cross-selling 
opportunities for the Bancorp™s 
commercial products. Each of the limited partnerships has an 
unrelated third-party general partner responsible for appointing the 
fund manager. The Bancorp has not
 been appointed fund manager 
for any of these private equity funds. The funds finance primarily all 

of their activities from the pa
rtners™ capital contributions and 
investment returns. Under the VIE consolidation guidance still 

applicable to the funds, the Bancorp has determined that it is not 

the primary beneficiary of the funds because it does not absorb a 

majority of the funds™ expected losses or receive a majority of the 
funds™ expected residual returns. 
Therefore, the Bancorp accounts 
for its investments in these limited partnerships under the equity 

method of accounting. 
The Bancorp is exposed to losses arising from negative 
performance of the underlying investments in the private equity 

funds. As a limited partner, the Bancorp™s maximum exposure to 

loss is limited to the carrying amounts of the investments plus 

unfunded commitments. The carrying amounts of these 
investments, which are included in 
other assets in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheets, are included in the previous tables. Also, as of 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, the unfunded commitment amounts 

to the funds were $60 million and $78 million, respectively. The 

Bancorp made capital contributions
 of $30 million and $27 million 
to private equity funds during the years ended December 31, 2015 

and 2014, respectively. The Bancorp recognized $1 million, zero and 

$4 million of OTTI on its investments in private equity funds 
during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, 
respectively. Refer to Note 27 for further information. 
 Loans Provided to VIEs 

The Bancorp has provided funding to certain unconsolidated VIEs 

sponsored by third parties. These 
VIEs are generally established to 
finance certain consumer and small business loans originated by 

third parties. The entities are pr
imarily funded through the issuance 
of a loan from the Bancorp or syndication through which the 
Bancorp is involved. The sponsor/administrator of the entities is 
responsible for servicing the underlying assets in the VIEs. Because 

the sponsor/administrator, not the Bancorp, holds the servicing 

responsibilities, which include th
e establishment and employment of 
default mitigation policies and procedures, the Bancorp does not 

hold the power to direct the activiti
es that most significantly impact 
the economic performance of the entity and, therefore, is not the 

primary beneficiary. The principal risk to which these 
entities are exposed is credit 
risk related to the underlying
 assets. The Bancorp™s maximum 
exposure to loss is equal to the carrying amounts of the loans and 

unfunded commitments to the VIEs. The Bancorp™s outstanding 

loans to these VIEs are included 
in commercial loans in Note 5. As 
of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Bancorp™s unfunded 
commitments to these entities 
were $969 million and $859 million, 
respectively. The loans and unfund
ed commitments to these VIEs 
are included in the Bancorp™s 
overall analysis of the ALLL and 
reserve for unfunded commitments, 
respectively. The Bancorp does 
not provide any implicit or explicit liquidity guarantees or principal 

value guarantees to these VIEs. 

 Automobile Loan Securitization 
The Bancorp previously securitize
d and sold certain automobile 
loans with a carrying amount of approximately $509 million in a 

transaction that qualified for sale accounting. The Bancorp has 

concluded that it is not the primary beneficiary of the trust because 

it has neither the obligation to abso
rb losses of the entity that could 
potentially be significant to the VIE nor the right to receive benefits 

from the entity that could potentially
 be significant to the VIE. The 
Bancorp is not required and does not currently intend to provide 
any additional financial support to th
e trust. Investors and creditors 
only have recourse to the assets he
ld by the trust. The interest the 
Bancorp holds in the VIE relates to servicing rights which are 

included in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The maximum 

exposure to loss is equal to the carrying value of the servicing asset. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  120  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 12. SALES OF RECEIVABLES AND SERVICING RIGHTS 
Residential Mortgage TDR Loan Sale 
In March of 2015, the Bancorp recognized a $37 million gain, 
included in other noninterest income in the Consolidated 
Statements of Income, on the sale of certain HFS residential 

mortgage loans with a carrying value of $568 million that were 

previously modified in a TDR. As
 part of this sale, the Bancorp 
provided certain standard representations and warranties. 

Additionally, the Bancorp did not obtain servicing responsibilities 

on the sales of these loans and the investors have no credit recourse 

to the Bancorp™s other assets for failu
re of debtors to pay when due.  
 Residential Mortgage Loan Sales 
The Bancorp sold fixed and adjustable-rate residential mortgage 

loans during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. In 
those sales, the Bancorp obtained servicing responsibilities and 

provided certain standard repres
entations and warranties, however 
the investors have no recourse to the Bancorp™s other assets for 

failure of debtors to pay when due. The Bancorp receives annual 

servicing fees based on a percentage of the outstanding balance. The 

Bancorp identifies classes of servicing assets based on financial asset 

type and interest rates. 
Information related to residential mortgage loan sales and the Ba
ncorp™s mortgage banking activity, which is included in mortga
ge banking net
revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income, for the years ended December 31 is as follows:
                  ($ in millions)
    2015 
  2014 
 2013  
Residential mortgage loan sales
(a) $ 5,078 
 (b) 5,467 
21,529 
     Origination fees and gains on loan sales
     171 
153 
453 
Gross mortgage servicing fees
     222 
246 
251 
(a) Represents the unpaid principal balance at the time of the sale. 
(b) Excludes $568
 of HFS residential mortgage loans previously modified in a TDR that were sold during the first quarter of 2015.  
Servicing Rights 
The following table presents changes in the servicing rights re
lated to residential mortgage and automobile loans for the years
 ended December 31:
      ($ in millions)
   2015 
 2014 
 Carrying amount before valuation allowance: 
     Balance, beginning of period 
$  1,392 
1,440 
     Servicing rights that result from the transfer of residential mortgage loans 
  63 
73 
     Amortization 
  (140)(121)
     Other-than-temporary impairment 
  (111)-    Balance, end of period 
$  1,204 
1,392 
Valuation allowance for servicing rights: 
     Balance, beginning of period 
$ (534)(469)
     Recovery of (provision for) MSR impairment 
  4 (65)
     Other-than-temporary impairment 
  111 -    Balance, end of period 
  (419)(534)
Carrying amount after valuation allowance 
$ 785 
858 
    Amortization expense recognized on servicing rights
 for the years 
ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $140 million, $121 

million and $168 million, respectively. The Bancorp's projections of 
amortization expense shown below are based on existing asset 
balances and static key economic assumptions as of December 31, 

2015. Future amortization expense ma
y vary from these projections. Estimated amortization expense for the years en
ding December 31, 2016 through 2020 is as follows: 
  ($ in millions)
  Total 
2016  
$114 
  2017  
 103 
  2018  
 93 
  2019  
 85 
  2020  
 77 
    Temporary impairment or impairmen
t recovery, affected through a 
change in the MSR valuation allowance, is captured as a component 
of mortgage banking net revenue in the Consolidated Statements of 

Income. Other-than-temporary im
pairment recognized through a 
write-off of the servicing right and related valuation allowance is 

captured as a component of servicing rights on the Consolidated 

Balance Sheets. The Bancorp maintains a non-qualifying hedging 

strategy to manage a portion of the risk associated with changes in 
the value of the MSR portfolio. This strategy includes the purchase 
of free-standing derivatives and va
rious available-for-sale securities. 
The interest income, mark-to-market
 adjustments and gain or loss 
from sale activities associated wi
th these portfolios are expected to 
economically hedge a portion of the change in value of the MSR 

portfolio caused by fluctuating discount rates, earnings rates and 

prepayment speeds.
 The fair value of the servicing asset is based on 
the present value of expected
 future cash flows.    
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  121  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following table displays the beginning and ending fair v
alue of the servicing rights for the years ended December 31:
       ($ in millions)
   2015 
 2014 
 Fixed-rate residential mortgage loans: 
      Balance, beginning of period 
$ 823 
929
    Balance, end of period 
  757 
823
Adjustable-rate residential mortgage loans: 
      Balance, beginning of period 
  33 
38    Balance, end of period 
  27 
33Fixed-rate automobile loans: 
      Balance, beginning of period 
  2 4    Balance, end of period 
  1   2   The following table presents activity related to valuations of
 the MSR portfolio and the impact of the non-qualifying hedging s
trategy, which is
included in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31:
        ($ in millions)
  2015 
 2014 
 2013  
Securities gains, net - non-qualifying hedges on MSRs 
$ - 
 - 
 13 
Changes in fair value an
d settlement of free-standi
ng derivatives purchased 
     to economically hedge the MSR portfolio (mortgage banking net revenue) 
 90 
95 
(30)
Recovery of (provision for) MSR impairment (mortgage banking net revenue) 
 4 (65)
192 
  As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the key economic assumptions used 
in measuring the interests in residential mortgage loans tha
t continued to be held by the Bancorp at the date of sale or securitization 
resulting from transactions completed during the years ended Decem
ber 31 were as 
follows:                                           2015 
  2014 
     Weighted- 
          Weighted-
              Average 
Prepayment   Weighted-  
 Average 
Prepayment   Weighted- 
    Life 
 Speed OAS SpreadAverage 
 Life  
Speed Discount Rate
Average 
  Rate 
(in years) 
(annual) 
(bps) 
Default Rate
 (in years) 
(annual) 
(annual) 
Default Rate
Residential mortgage loans: 
    Servicing rights 
Fixed 
6.9 
11.0 %534 
  N/A6.611.3 
% 10.0 
% N/A    Servicing rights 
Adjustable 
3.4 
25.2 
303 
N/A3.722.3 
11.7 
N/A    During the first quarter of 2015, the Bancorp adopted an OAS 
valuation approach for valuing it
s MSRs. This approach projects 
servicing cash flows over multiple interest rate scenarios, which are 

then discounted at risk-adjusted rates. 
Based on historical credit experience, expected credit losses for 
residential mortgage loan servicing assets have been deemed 
immaterial, as the Bancorp sold the majority of the underlying loans 
without recourse. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Bancorp 

serviced $59.0 billion and $65.4 b
illion, respectively, of residential 
mortgage loans for other investors. The value of MSRs that 
continue to be held by the Bancorp is subject to credit, prepayment 
and interest rate risks on the sold financial assets.   
                                      At December 31, 2015, the sensitivity of the current fair value of 
residual cash flows to immediate 10%, 20% and 50% adverse cha
nges in 
prepayment speed assumptions and immediate 10% and 20% ad
verse changes in other assumptions are as follows:
                                                       Prepayment    Residual Servicing  
              Speed Assumption   Cash Flows        Fair Weighted-
Average Life 
   Impact of Adverse Change 
on Fair Value 
OAS SpreadImpact of Adverse 
Change on Fair 
Value 
($ in millions)
(a) Rate   Value 
(in years) 
Rate 
10% 
20% 
50% 
(bps) 
10% 
20% 
Residential mortgage loans:
        Servicing rights
  Fixed $ 757 
5.911.8 
%$(32)
(61)
(134)
618 
$(18)
(34)
    Servicing rights
  Adjustable
   27 
3.027.0 
(2)
(3)
(7)
703 
(1)
(1)
(a) The impact of the weighted-average default rate on the current fa
ir value of residual cash flows for all scenarios is immateria
l.  These sensitivities are hypothetical an
d should be used with caution. 
As the figures indicate, changes in fair value based on these 

variations in the assumptions ty
pically cannot be extrapolated 
because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change 
in fair value may not be linear. The Bancorp believes variations of 

these levels are reasonably possible; however, there is the potential 

that adverse changes in key assumptions could be even greater. 
Also, in the previous table, the eff
ect of a variation in a particular 
assumption on the fair value of the interests that continue to be held 

by the Bancorp is calculated without changing any other 
assumption; in reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in another (for example, increases in ma
rket interest rates may result in 
lower prepayments), which might 
magnify or counteract these 
sensitivities. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  122  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 13. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
The Bancorp maintains an overall risk management strategy that 
incorporates the use of derivative 
instruments to reduce certain risks 
related to interest rate, prepaymen
t and foreign currency volatility. Additionally, the Bancorp holds derivative instruments for the 

benefit of its commercial customers and for other business 

purposes. The Bancorp does not enter into unhedged speculative 

derivative positions. 

 The Bancorp™s interest rate risk management strategy involves 

modifying the repricing characteristics of certain financial 

instruments so that changes in interest rates do not adversely affect 
the Bancorp™s net interest margin and cash flows. Derivative 
instruments that the Bancorp may use as
 part of its interest rate risk 
management strategy include interest rate swaps, interest rate floors, 

interest rate caps, forward contract
s, forward starting interest rate 
swaps, options and swaptions. Inte
rest rate swap contracts are 
exchanges of interest payments, such as fixed-rate payments for 

floating-rate payments, based on a stated notional amount and 

maturity date. Interest rate floors protect against declining rates, 
while interest rate caps protect against rising interest rates. Forward 
contracts are contracts in which the buyer agrees to purchase, and 

the seller agrees to make delivery of, a specific financial instrument 

at a predetermined price or yield. Options provide the purchaser 

with the right, but not the obligation, to purchase or sell a 

contracted item during a specified 
period at an agreed upon price. 
Swaptions are financial instruments 
granting the owner the right, 
but not the obligation, to enter into or cancel a swap. 
 Prepayment volatility arises mostly from changes in fair value 
of the largely fixed-rate MSR portfolio, mortgage loans and 

mortgage-backed securities. The 
Bancorp may enter into various 
free-standing derivatives (principal-only swaps, interest rate 

swaptions, interest rate floors, mortgage options, TBAs and interest 

rate swaps) to economically hedge 
prepayment volatility. Principal-
only swaps are total return swaps based on changes in the value of 

the underlying mortgage principal-only trust.
 TBAs are a forward 
purchase agreement for a mortgage-backed securities trade whereby 
the terms of the security are undefined at the time the trade is made. 

 Foreign currency volatility occurs as the Bancorp enters into 

certain loans denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative 

instruments that the Bancorp may use to economically hedge these 

foreign denominated loans include foreign exchange swaps and 

forward contracts. 
 The Bancorp also enters into 
derivative contracts (including 
foreign exchange contracts, commodity contracts and interest rate 
contracts) for the benefit of commercial customers and other 

business purposes. The Bancorp economically hedges significant 

exposures related to these free-standi
ng derivatives by entering into 
offsetting third-party contract
s with approved, reputable and 
independent counterparties with 
substantially matching terms and 
currencies. Credit risk arises from the possible inability of 

counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts. The Bancorp™s 
exposure is limited to the replacement value of the contracts rather 
than the notional, principal or c
ontract amounts. Credit risk is 
minimized through credit approvals, limits, counterparty collateral 
and monitoring procedures.  
 The Bancorp™s derivative asse
ts include certain contractual 
features in which the Bancorp requi
res the counterparties to provide 
collateral in the form of cash and s
ecurities to offset changes in the 
fair value of the derivatives, incl
uding changes in the fair value due 
to credit risk of the counterparty. As of December 31, 2015 and 

2014, the balance of collateral held by the Bancorp for derivative 

assets was $821 million and $830 mi
llion, respectively. The credit 
component negatively impacting the fair value of derivative assets 
associated with customer accommo
dation contracts as of December 
31, 2015 and 2014 was $9 million and $16 million, respectively. 

 In measuring the fair value of derivative liabilities, the Bancorp 

considers its own credit risk, taking into consideration collateral 

maintenance requirements of certain
 derivative counterparties and 
the duration of instruments with co
unterparties that do not require 
collateral maintenance. When necessary, the Bancorp posts 
collateral primarily in the form of 
cash and securities to offset 
changes in fair value of the deriva
tives, including changes in fair 
value due to the Bancorp™s credit risk. As of December 31, 2015 and 

2014, the balance of collateral posted by the Bancorp for derivative 

liabilities was $504 million and $574 million, respectively. Certain of 

the Bancorp™s derivative liabilities contain credit-risk related 

contingent features that could 
result in the requirement to post 
additional collateral upon the occurre
nce of specified events. As of 
December 31, 2015 and 2014, the fair value of the additional 
collateral that could be required to be posted as a result of the 

credit-risk related contingent features being triggered was immaterial 

to the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements.
 The posting of 
collateral has been determined to remove the need for further 

consideration of credit risk. As a result, the Bancorp determined 

that the impact of the Bancorp™s cr
edit risk to the valuation of its 
derivative liabilities was immaterial to the Bancorp™s Consolidated 
Financial Statements. 
 The Bancorp holds certain derivative instruments that qualify 

for hedge accounting treatment and 
are designated as either fair 
value hedges or cash flow hedges. Derivative instruments that do 

not qualify for hedge accounting 
treatment, or for which hedge 
accounting is not established, are 
held as free-standing derivatives. 
All customer accommodation derivatives are held as free-standing 

derivatives. 
 The fair value of derivative in
struments is presented on a gross 
basis, even when the derivative 
instruments are subject to master 
netting arrangements. Derivative in
struments with a positive fair 
value are reported in other assets
 in the Consolidated Balance 
Sheets while derivative instruments with a negative fair value are 

reported in other liabilities in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets. Cash 
collateral payables and receivables associated with the derivative 

instruments are not added to or netted against the fair value 
amounts. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  123  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following tables reflect the notional amounts and fair values
 for all derivative instruments included in the Consolidated B
alance Sheets as of:
             Fair Value 
   Notional
   Derivative 
Derivative 
December 31, 2015 ($ in millions)
  Amount
   Assets 
Liabilities 
Qualifying Hedging Instruments
     Fair value hedges:
       Interest rate swaps related to long-term debt
 $ 2,705 
 372 
 2 
   Total fair value hedges
   372 
 2 
   Cash flow hedges:
       Interest rate swaps related to C&I loans
   5,475 
 39 
 - 
   Total cash flow hedges
   39 
 - 
Total derivatives designated as qualifying hedging instruments
   411 
 2 
Derivatives Not Designated as Qualifying Hedging Instruments 
    Free-standing derivatives - risk management and other business purposes:
       Interest rate contracts related to MSRs
   11,657 
 239 
 9 
     Forward contracts related to he
ld for sale residential mortgage loans
   1,330 
 3 
 1 
     Stock warrant associated with Vantiv Holding, LLC
   369 
 262 
 - 
     Swap associated with the sale of Visa, Inc. Class B shares
   1,292 
 - 
 61 
   Total free-standing derivatives - risk management and other business purposes
   504 
 71 
   Free-standing derivatives - customer accommodation:
       Interest rate contracts for customers
   29,889 
 242 
 249 
     Interest rate lock commitments
   721 
 15 
 - 
     Commodity contracts
   2,464 
 294 
 276 
     Foreign exchange contracts
   16,243 
 386 
 340 
   Total free-standing deriva
tives - customer accommodation
   937 
 865 
Total derivatives not designated as qualifying hedging instruments
   1,441 
 936 
Total 
 $ 1,852 
 938 
           Fair Value 
   Notional 
Derivative 
Derivative 
December 31, 2014 ($ in millions) 
 Amount
 Assets 
Liabilities 
Qualifying Hedging Instruments
     Fair value hedges: 
     Interest rate swaps related to long-term debt 
$ 2,205 
 399 
 - 
   Total fair value hedges 
 399 
 - 
   Cash flow hedges: 
     Interest rate swaps related to C&I loans 
 3,150 
 36 
 - 
   Total cash flow hedges 
 36 
 - 
Total derivatives designated as 
qualifying hedging instruments 
 435 
 - 
Derivatives Not Designated as Qualifying Hedging Instruments
    Free-standing derivatives - risk management and other business purposes: 
     Interest rate contracts related to MSRs 
 4,487 
 181 
 - 
     Forward contracts related to he
ld for sale residential mortgage loans 
 999 
 - 
 6 
     Stock warrant associated with Vantiv Holding, LLC 
 691 
 415 
 - 
     Swap associated with the sale of Visa, Inc. Class B shares 
 1,092 
 - 
 49 
   Total free-standing derivatives - risk management and other business purposes 
 596 
 55 
   Free-standing derivatives - customer accommodation: 
     Interest rate contracts for customers 
 29,558 
 272 
 278 
     Interest rate lock commitments 
 613 
 12 
 - 
     Commodity contracts 
 3,558 
 348 
 338 
     Foreign exchange contracts 
 16,475 
 417 
 372 
   Total free-standing deriva
tives - customer accommodation 
 1,049 
 988 
Total derivatives not designated as qualifying hedging instruments 
 1,645 
 1,043 
Total 
$ 2,080 
 1,043 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  124  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Fair Value Hedges 
The Bancorp may enter into interest
 rate swaps to convert its fixed-
rate funding to floating-rate. Deci
sions to convert fixed-rate funding 
to floating are made primarily through consideration of the 
asset/liability mix of the Bancorp, the desired asset/liability 
sensitivity and interest rate levels. For all interest rate swaps as of 

December 31, 2015, an assessment of hedge effectiveness using 

regression analysis was performed and such swaps were accounted 

for using the ﬁlong-haulﬂ method. The long-haul method requires a 
quarterly assessment of hedge effectiveness and measurement of 
ineffectiveness. For interest rate 
swaps accounted for as a fair value 
hedge using the long-haul method, 
ineffectiveness is the difference 
between the changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap and 
changes in fair value of the related hedged item attributable to the 
risk being hedged. The ineffectiveness on interest rate swaps 

hedging fixed-rate funding is reported within interest expense in the 

Consolidated Statements of Income.   
      The following table reflects the change in f
air value of interest rate contracts, desi
gnated as fair value hedges, as well as t
he change in fair value o
f the related hedged items attributable to the risk being he
dged, included in the Consolidated Statements of Income: 
          Consolidated Statements of  
Income Caption 
            For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
  2015 
 2014 
 2013  
Interest rate contracts: 
        Change in fair value of interest rate swaps hedging long-term debt 
 Interest on long-term debt 
$  (29)
 120 
 (279)
     Change in fair value of hedged long-term debt attributable to the risk being hedged
 Interest on long-term debt 
   25 
 (126)
 276 
        Cash Flow Hedges 
The Bancorp may enter into interest rate swaps to convert floating-
rate assets and liabilities to fixed ra
tes or to hedge certain forecasted 
transactions. The assets or liabilities may be grouped in 
circumstances where they share the same risk exposure that the 
Bancorp desires to hedge. The Bancorp may also enter into interest 

rate caps and floors to limit cash 
flow variability of floating-rate 
assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2015, all hedges designated 

as cash flow hedges were assessed for effectiveness using regression 

analysis. Ineffectiveness is gene
rally measured as the amount by 
which the cumulative change in the fair value of the hedging 

instrument exceeds the present valu
e of the cumulative change in 
the hedged item™s expected cash flow
s attributable to the risk being 
hedged. Ineffectiveness is reported within other noninterest income 

in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The effective portion of 

the cumulative gains or losses on cash flow hedges are reported 

within AOCI and are reclassified from AOCI to current period 

earnings when the forecasted tran
saction affects earnings. As of 
December 31, 2015, the maximum length of time over which the 
Bancorp is hedging its exposure to the variability in future cash 
flows is 48 months. 

 Reclassified gains and losses on interest rate contracts related 

to commercial and industrial loans 
are recorded within interest 
income in the Consolidated Statements of Income. As of December 
31, 2015 and 2014, $22 million and $23 million, respectively, of net 

deferred gains, net of tax, on cash flow hedges were recorded in 

AOCI in the Consolidated Bala
nce Sheets. As of December 31, 
2015, $25 million in net deferred gains, net of tax, recorded in 

AOCI are expected to be reclassifi
ed into earnings during the next 
twelve months. This amount could differ from amounts actually 

recognized due to changes in intere
st rates, hedge de-designations, 
and the addition of other hedges subsequent to December 31, 2015. 
 During the years ended 2015 and 2014, there were no gains or 

losses reclassified from AOCI into earnings associated with the 

discontinuance of cash flow hedges
 because it was probable that the 
original forecasted transaction would no longer occur by the end of 

the originally specified time period or within the additional period of 

time as defined by U.S. GAAP.     The following table presents the pretax net 
gains (losses) recorded in the Consolidat
ed Statements of Income and the Consolidat
ed Statements o
f Comprehensive Income relating to derivative in
struments designated as cash flow hedges: 
      For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
  2015 
 2014 
 2013  
Amount of pretax net gains (losses) recognized in OCI 
$ 74 
 60 
 (13)
Amount of pretax net gains reclassified from OCI into net income
   75 
 44 
 44 
      Free-Standing Derivative Instruments Œ Risk Management 
and Other Business Purposes 
As part of its overall risk management strategy relative to its 

mortgage banking activity, the Ba
ncorp may enter into various free-
standing derivatives (principal-only 
swaps, interest rate swaptions, 
interest rate floors, mortgage opti
ons, TBAs and interest rate swaps) 
to economically hedge changes in fair value of its largely fixed-rate 
MSR portfolio. Principal-only sw
aps hedge the mortgage-LIBOR 
spread because these swaps appreciate in value as a result of 

tightening spreads. Principal-only swaps also provide prepayment 

protection by increasing in value when prepayment speeds increase, 

as opposed to MSRs that lose value in a faster prepayment 

environment. Receive fixed/pay floating interest rate swaps and 

swaptions increase in value when interest rates do not increase as 

quickly as expected.  The Bancorp enters into forward contracts and mortgage 
options to economically hedge the ch
ange in fair value of certain 
residential mortgage loans held for 
sale due to changes in interest 
rates. IRLCs issued on residential 
mortgage loan commitments that 
will be held for sale are also considered free-standing derivative 

instruments and the interest rate
 exposure on these commitments is 
economically hedged primarily with forward contracts. Revaluation 

gains and losses from free-standing 
derivatives related to mortgage 
banking activity are recorded as a component of mortgage banking 

net revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
 In conjunction with the initial sale of the Bancorp™s 51% 
interest in Vantiv Holding, LL
C, the Bancorp received a warrant 
which is accounted for as a free-s
tanding derivative. Refer to Note 
27 for further discussion of signific
ant inputs and assumptions used 
in the valuation of the warrant
. During the year ended December 
31, 2015, the Bancorp both sold and exercised part of the warrant. 

For more information, refer to Note 19. 

 In conjunction with the sale of Visa, Inc. Class B shares in 
2009, the Bancorp entered into a to
tal return swap in which the 
Bancorp will make or receive payments based on subsequent 

changes in the conversion rate of the Class B shares into Class A 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  125  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 shares. This total return swap is
 accounted for as a free-standing 
derivative. Refer to Note 27 for 
further discussion of significant 
inputs and assumptions used in th
e valuation of this instrument.  
 The net gains (losses) recorded in the Cons
olidated Statements of Income relating to 
free-standing derivative instruments used 
for risk management and other business purposes 
are summarized in the following table:
           Consolidated Statements of 
Income Caption
              For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
   2015 
   2014 
 2013  
Interest rate contracts: 
        Forward contracts related to residential mortgage loans held for sale
  Mortgage banking net revenue 
$  8 
 (18)
 24 
     Interest rate contracts related to MSR portfolio 
 Mortgage banking net revenue 
   90 
 95 
 (30)
Foreign exchange contracts: 
          Foreign exchange contracts for risk management purposes
  Other noninterest income 
   23 
 14 
 5 
Equity contracts: 
          Stock warrant associated with Vantiv Holding, LLC
  Other noninterest income 
   325 
 (a)
 31 
 206 
     Swap associated with sale of Visa, Inc. Class B shares 
 Other noninterest income 
   (37)
 (38)
 (31)
(a) The Bancorp recognized a net gain of $89 million on both the sa
le and exercise of the warrant during the fourth quarter of 2015
. Free-Standing Derivative Instruments Œ Customer 
Accommodation 
The majority of the free-standing derivative instruments the 

Bancorp enters into are for the benefit of its commercial customers. 
These derivative contracts are not designated against specific assets 
or liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets or to forecasted 

transactions and, therefore, do
 not qualify for hedge accounting. 
These instruments include foreign exchange derivative contracts 

entered into for the benefit of commercial customers involved in 

international trade to hedge their exposure to foreign currency 

fluctuations and commodity contracts to hedge such items as 

natural gas and various other deriva
tive contracts. The Bancorp may 
economically hedge significant exposures related to these derivative 
contracts entered into for the benefit of customers by entering into 

offsetting contracts with appr
oved, reputable, independent 
counterparties with substantiall
y matching terms. The Bancorp 
hedges its interest rate exposure on commercial customer 

transactions by executing offsetti
ng swap agreements with primary 
dealers. Revaluation gains and losses on interest rate, foreign 

exchange, commodity and other commercial customer derivative 
contracts are recorded as a component of corporate banking 
revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  
 The Bancorp enters into risk participation agreements, under 
which the Bancorp assumes credit exposure relating to certain 

underlying interest rate deriva
tive contracts. The Bancorp only 
enters into these risk participati
on agreements in instances in which 
the Bancorp has participated in the loan that the underlying interest 
rate derivative contract was designed to hedge. The Bancorp will 

make payments under these agreements
 if a customer defaults on its 
obligation to perform under the terms of the underlying interest rate 

derivative contract. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the total 

notional amount of the risk participation agreements was $1.7 

billion and $1.1 billion, respectively, 
and the fair value was a liability 
of $3 million at December 31, 2015 and $2 million at December 31, 
2014, which is included in other liabilities in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2015, the risk participation 

agreements had a weighted-average
 remaining life of 3.2 years. 
 The Bancorp™s maximum exposure in the risk participation 

agreements is contingent on the fair value of the underlying interest 

rate derivative contracts in an a
sset position at the time of default. 
The Bancorp monitors the credit risk associated with the underlying 

customers in the risk participation agreements through the same risk 
grading system currently utilized for 
establishing loss reserves in its 
loan and lease portfolio.     Risk ratings of the notional amount of ri
sk participation agreements under this risk
 rating system are summarized in the follow
ing table:       At December 31 ($ in millions)
   2015  
2014 
 Pass 
$  1,650 
 1,052
Special mention 
   7 
 59
Substandard 
   7 
 2Total 
$  1,664 
 1,113
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  126  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The net gains (losses) recorded in the Consolidated Statements 
of Income relating to free-standing
 derivative instruments used 
for customer 
accommodation are summarized in the following table:
         Consolidated Statements of 
Income Caption 
       For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
  2015 
 2014 
 2013 
 Interest rate contracts: 
       Interest rate contracts for customers (contract revenue) 
Corporate banking revenue 
$  23
 19 
 29 
     Interest rate contracts for customers (credit losses) 
Other noninterest expense 
   (1)
 (3)
 (3)
     Interest rate contracts for customers (credit portion of fair value adjustment) 
Other noninterest expense 
   1 3 
 7 
     Interest rate lock commitments 
Mortgage banking net revenue 
   111
 124 
 58 
Commodity contracts: 
         Commodity contracts fo
r customers (contract revenue) Corporate banking revenue 
   5 6 
 7 
     Commodity contracts 
for customers (credit losses) 
Other noninterest expense 
   (2)
 - 
 - 
     Commodity contracts for customers (credit portion of fair value adjustment) 
Other noninterest expense 
   6 (7)
 - 
Foreign exchange contracts: 
         Foreign exchange contract
s for customers (contract revenue) 
Corporate banking revenue 
   70
 72 
 69 
     Foreign exchange contracts for customers (credit portion of fair value adjustment) 
Other noninterest expense 
   - - 
 (2)
    Offsetting Derivative Financial Instruments 
The Bancorp™s derivative transactions are generally governed by 
ISDA Master Agreements and similar arrangements, which include 

provisions governing the setoff of 
assets and liabilities between the 
parties. When the Bancorp has more than one outstanding 
derivative transaction with a single counterparty, the setoff 
provisions contained within these agreements generally allow the 

non-defaulting party the right to re
duce its liability to the defaulting 
party by amounts eligible for seto
ff, including the collateral received 
as well as eligible offsetting tran
sactions with that counterparty, 
irrespective of the currency, pl
ace of payment or booking office. 
The Bancorp™s policy is to present it
s derivative assets and derivative 
liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets on a gross basis, even 
when provisions allowing for setoff are in place. 
 Collateral amounts included in the tables below consist 

primarily of cash and highly-rated government-backed securities. 
                       Gross Amount  
    Gross Amounts Not Offset in the
        Recognized in the 
    Consolidated Balance Sheets
     As of  December 31, 2015  ($ in millions)
 Consolidated Balance Sheets
(a) Derivatives
  Collateral
(b) 
  Net Amount 
                 Assets                           Derivatives
 $ 1,575 
      (512)
    (627)
       436
Total assets
  1,575 
      (512)
    (627)
       436
                         Liabilities 
                        Derivatives
  938 
      (512)
    (173)
       253
Total liabilities 
 $ 938 
      (512)
    (173)
       253
(a) Amount does not include the stock warrant asso
ciated with Vantiv Holding, LLC and IR
LCs because these instruments are not subje
ct to master netting or similar arrangements. 
(b) Amount of collateral received as an offset to asset positions or
 pledged as an offset to liability positions. Collateral values
 in excess of related derivative amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance 
Sheets were excluded from this table. 
                       Gross Amount  
    Gross Amounts Not Offset in the
        Recognized in the 
    Consolidated Balance Sheets 
     As of December 31, 2014
 ($ in millions) 
Consolidated Balance Sheets
(a) Derivatives
  Collateral
(b) 
  Net Amount 
                     Assets                           Derivatives
 $ 1,653 
      (440)
    (684)
       529
Total assets 
 1,653 
      (440)
    (684)
       529
                         Liabilities 
                        Derivatives
  1,043 
      (440)
    (293)
       310
Total liabilities  
$ 1,043 
      (440)
    (293)
       310
(a) Amount does not include the stock warrant asso
ciated with Vantiv Holding, LLC and IR
LCs because these instruments are not subje
ct to master netting or similar arrangements. 
(b) Amount of collateral received as an offset to asset positions or
 pledged as an offset to liability positions. Collateral values
 in excess of related derivative amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance 
Sheets were excluded from this table. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  127  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 14. OTHER ASSETS 
The following table provides the components of other assets in
cluded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31:
   ($ in millions)
  2015 
2014 
Derivative instruments 
$1,852 
2,080 
Partnership investments 
1,756 
1,685 
Accounts receivable an
d drafts-in-process  1,653 
1,452 
Bank owned life insurance 
 1,651 
1,623 
Investment in Vantiv Holding, LLC 
 360 
394 
Accrued interest an
d fees receivable 
 329 
312 
OREO and other repossessed personal property 
 155 236 
Prepaid expenses 
 101 97 
Income tax receivable 
 - 107 
Other  142 255 
Total other assets 
$7,999 
8,241 
  The Bancorp utilizes derivative inst
ruments as part of its overall risk 
management strategy to reduce certain risks related to interest rate, 

prepayment and foreign currency volatility. The Bancorp also holds 
derivatives instruments for the benefit of its commercial customers 

and for other business purposes. For further information on 
derivative instruments, refer to Note 13.  

       CDC, a wholly-owned indirect subsidiary of the Bancorp, was 
created to invest in projects to create affordable housing, revitalize 
business and residential areas and preserve historic landmarks, 

which are included above in part
nership investments. In addition, 
Fifth Third Capital Holdings, a who
lly-owned indirect subsidiary of 
the Bancorp, invests as a direct private equity investor and as a 

limited partner in private equity funds, which are included above as 

partnership investments. The Bancorp has determined that these 

partnership investments are VIEs and the Bancorp™s investments 
represent variable interests. Refer to Note 11 for further 
information. The Bancorp recognized $1 million, zero and $4 

million of OTTI on its investments in private equity funds during 

the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 

Refer to Note 27 for further information. 
The Bancorp purchases life insurance policies on the lives of 
certain directors, officers and employees and is the owner and 

beneficiary of the policies. Certain 
BOLI policies have a stable value 
agreement through either a large, we
ll-rated bank or multi-national 
insurance carrier that provides limited cash surrender value 

protection from declines in the value of each policy™s underlying 

investments. Refer to Note 1 for further information. 
In 2009, the Bancorp sold an approximate 51% interest in its 
processing business, Vantiv Holding,
 LLC. As a result of additional 
share sales completed by the Bancorp, its current ownership share 

in Vantiv Holding, LLC is ap
proximately 18%. The Bancorp™s 
ownership in Vantiv Holding, LLC is currently accounted for under 
the equity method of accounting. Refer to Note 19 for further 

information. OREO represents property acquired through foreclosure or 
other proceedings and is carried at the lower of cost or fair value, 

less costs to sell. Refer to Note 1 for further information.
    
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  128  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 15. SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS Borrowings with original maturities 
of one year or less are classified 
as short-term and include federal funds purchased and other short-
term borrowings. Federal funds purchased are excess balances in 
reserve accounts held at the FRB that the Bancorp purchased from 
other member banks on an overnight basis. Other short-term 
borrowings include securities sold under repurchase agreements, 
derivative collateral, FHLB advances and other borrowings with 
original maturities of one year or less.   
                 The following table summarizes short-term
 borrowings and weighted-average rates:
                      2015 
    2014 
   ($ in millions)
   Amount  
Rate 
   Amount
Rate 
 As of December 31: 
                   Federal funds purchased 
$151 0.30 
%$144 
0.08 
%     Other short-term borrowings 
  1,507 
0.11     1,556 
0.08 
 Average for the years ended December 31: 
                Federal funds purchased 
$920 
0.13 
%$458 
0.09 
%     Other short-term borrowings 
  1,721 
0.12 
    1,873 
0.10 
 Maximum month-end balance for 
the years ended December 31: 
                    Federal funds purchased 
$200 
    $286 
        Other short-term borrowings 
  4,904 
      3,756 
       The following table presents a summary of the Bancor
p's other short-term borrowings as of December 31: 
        ($ in millions)
         2015 
 2014 
   Securities sold under repurchase agreements 
      $ 925 
995 
  Derivative collateral 
        582 
561 
  Total other short-term borrowings 
      $  1,507 
 1,556 
        The Bancorp™s securities sold under repurchase agreements are 
accounted for as secured borro
wings and are collateralized by 
securities included in available-for
-sale and other securities in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets. These s
ecurities are subject to changes 
in market value and, therefore, the Bancorp may increase or 
decrease the level of securities pledged as collateral based upon 

these movements in market value.   
      The following table summarizes the Bancorp's 
securities sold under repurchase agreements
 by the type of collateral securing the
 borrowing and 
remaining contractual maturity as of December 31: 
        ($ in millions)
     2015 
   2014  
          Amount 
Remaining Contractual 
Maturity 
 Amount 
Remaining Contractual 
Maturity 
  Collateral type: 
                  Agency residential mortga
ge-backed securities 
  $ 646 
Overnight 
$ 896 
Overnight     U.S. Treasury and federa
l agencies securities 
    279 
Overnight 
  99 
Overnight   Total securities sold under repurchase agreements 
  $ 925 
  $ 995 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  129  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 16. LONG-TERM DEBT 
The following table is a summary of the Bancorp™s long-term borrowings at December 31:
      ($ in millions)
  Maturity
 Interest Rate 
 2015 
 2014 
 Parent Company
           Senior:
                Fixed-rate notes
  2016 
 3.625% 
$1,000 
 1,000 
     Fixed-rate notes
  2019 
 2.30% 
500 
 499 
     Fixed-rate notes
  2020 
 2.875% 
1,099 
 - 
     Fixed-rate notes
  2022 
 3.50% 
 498 
 497 
Subordinated:
(a)
               Floating-rate notes
(c) 2016 
 0.99% 
 250 
250 
     Fixed-rate notes
  2017 
 5.45% 
 520 
539 
     Fixed-rate notes
  2018 
 4.50% 
 532 
544 
     Fixed-rate notes
  2024 
 4.30% 
 748 
 748 
     Fixed-rate notes
  2038 
 8.25% 
 1,327 
1,317 
Subsidiaries            Senior:
                 Fixed-rate notes
  2016
 1.15% 
 1,000 
 1,000 
     Fixed-rate notes
  2016
 0.90% 
 400 
 400 
     Floating-rate notes
(c) 2016
 0.87% 
 750 
 750 
     Floating-rate notes
(c) 2016
 0.82% 
 300 
 300 
     Fixed-rate notes
  2017
 1.35% 
 652 
 654 
     Fixed-rate notes
  2018
 2.15% 
 998 
 - 
     Fixed-rate notes
  2018
 1.45% 
 598 
 597 
     Floating-rate notes
(c) 2018
 1.28% 
 250 
 - 
     Fixed-rate notes
  2019
 2.375% 
 850 
 850 
     Fixed-rate notes
  2021
 2.875% 
 846 
 846 
Subordinated:
(a)
                Fixed-rate bank notes
  2015 
 4.75% 
  - 
502 
Junior subordinated:
(b)                Floating-rate debentures
(c) 2035 
 1.93% - 2.20% 
 52 
51 
FHLB advances  2016 - 2041
 0.05% - 6.87% 
  37 
41 
Notes associated with consolidated VIEs:
                 Automobile loan securitizations:
                      Fixed-rate and floating-rate notes
(c) 2016 - 2022
 0.43% - 1.79% 
  2,493 
 3,434 
Other  2016 - 2039
 Varies   144 
 148 
Total     $15,844 14,967 
(a) Qualifies as Tier II capital for regulatory capital purposes. 
(b) Under the Basel III Final Rule transition pr
ovisions, $13 million qualifies as Tier I c
apital as of December 31, 2015 while the
 remaining amount qualifies as Tier
 II capital. The entire amount 
qualified as Tier I capital as of December 31, 
2014. Refer to Note 28 for further information. 
(c) These rates reflect the floating rates as of December 31, 2015.  
The Bancorp pays down long-term debt in accordance with contract
ual terms over maturity periods 
summarized in the above table. 
The aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt obligat
ions (based on final maturity dates) as of December 31, 2015 are presented in the fo
llowing table: 
   ($ in millions)
  Parent Subsidiaries 
Total 
2016 
$ 1,250 
 2,594 
 3,844 
2017 
 520 
 954 
 1,474 
2018 
 532 
 2,807 
 3,339 
2019 
 500 
 1,221 
 1,721 
2020 
 1,099 
 664 
 1,763 
Thereafter  2,573 
 1,130 
 3,703 
Total  
$ 6,474 
 9,370 
 15,844 
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  130  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 At December 31, 2015, the Bancorp had outstanding principal 
balances of $15.5 billion, net discounts of $24 million and additions 

for mark-to-market adjustments on 
its hedged debt of $382 million. 
At December 31, 2014, the Bancorp had outstanding principal 
balances of $14.6 billion, net discounts of $25 million and additions 
for mark-to-market adjustments on 
its hedged debt of $407 million. 
The Bancorp was in compliance with all debt covenants at 

December 31, 2015. 
 Parent Company Long-Term Borrowings
 Senior Notes 
On January 25, 2011, the Bancorp issued and sold $1.0 billion of 

senior notes to third-party investors. The senior notes bear a fixed-
rate of interest of 3.625% per annum. The notes are unsecured, 
senior obligations of the Bancorp. Payment of the full principal 

amounts of the notes is due upon maturity on January 25, 2016. The 

notes are not subject to redempti
on at the Bancorp™s option at any 
time prior to maturity. 
On March 7, 2012, the Bancorp issued and sold $500 million of 
senior notes to third-party investors and entered into a 

Supplemental Indenture dated March 7, 2012 with the Trustee, 
which modified the existing Indenture for Senior Debt Securities 
dated April 30, 2008. The Supplemental Indenture and the 

Indenture define the rights of the senior notes, which senior notes 

are represented by a Global Security dated as of March 7, 2012. The 

senior notes bear a fixed-rate of 
interest of 3.50% per annum. The 
notes are unsecured, senior obligations of the Bancorp. Payment of 

the full principal amounts of the 
notes will be due upon maturity on 
March 15, 2022. The notes are not subject to redemption at the 
Bancorp™s option at any time un
til 30 days prior to maturity. 
On February 28, 2014, the Bancorp issued and sold $500 
million of senior notes to third-party investors. The senior notes 

bear a fixed-rate of interest of 2.30% per annum. The notes are 

unsecured, senior obligations of 
the Bancorp. Payment of the full 
principal amounts of the notes is
 due upon maturity on March 1, 
2019. The notes are not subject to
 redemption at the Bancorp™s 
option at any time until 30 days prior to maturity. 
On July 27, 2015, the Bancorp issued and sold $1.1 billion of 
senior notes to third-party investors. The senior notes bear a fixed-

rate of interest of 2.875% per annum. The notes are unsecured, 

senior obligations of the Bancorp. Payment of the full principal 

amounts of the notes is due upon 
maturity on July 27, 2020. The 
notes are not subject to redempti
on at the Bancorp™s option at any 
time until 30 days prior to maturity. 

 Subordinated Debt 
The subordinated floating-rate notes due in 2016 pay interest at 

three-month LIBOR plus 42 bps. The Bancorp has entered into 

interest rate swaps to convert it
s subordinated fixed-rate notes due 
in 2017 and 2018 to floating-rate, which pay interest at three-month 

LIBOR plus 42 bps and 25 bps, respectively, at December 31, 2015. 

The rates paid on the swaps hedgin
g the subordinated floating-rate 
notes due in 2017 and 2018 were 0.78% and 0.66%, respectively, at 
December 31, 2015. Of the $1.0 billion in 8.25% subordinated 
fixed-rate notes due in 2038, $705 million were subsequently hedged 

to floating and paid a rate of 3.46% at December 31, 2015.   
On November 20, 2013, the Bancorp issued and sold $750 
million of 4.30% unsecured subordinated fixed-rate notes with a 

maturity date of January 16, 2024. These fixed-rate notes will be 

redeemable by the Bancorp, in whole or in part, on or after the date 

that is 30 days prior to the maturi
ty date at a redemption price equal 
to 100% of the principal amount pl
us accrued and unpaid interest 
up to, but excluding, the redemption date.   Subsidiary Long-Term Borrowings 
Senior and Subordinated Debt Medium-term senior notes and subordinated bank notes with 

maturities ranging from one year to
 30 years can be issued by the 
Bancorp™s banking subsidiary. On February 25, 2013, the Bancorp™s 
banking subsidiary updated and amended its existing global bank 

note program. The amended global bank note program increased 

the Bank™s capacity to issue its 
senior and subordinated unsecured 
bank notes from $20 billion to $25 billion. As of December 31, 

2015, $18.4 billion was available for future issuance under the global 

bank note program.  
On February 28, 2013, the Bank issued and sold, under its 
amended bank notes program, $1.3 billion in aggregate principal 
amount of unsecured senior bank
 notes. The bank notes consisted 
of: $600 million of 1.45% senior fixed-rate notes due on 

February 28, 2018; $400 million of 
0.90% senior fixed-rate notes 
due on February 26, 2016; and $300 million of senior floating-rate 

notes due on February 26, 2016. Interest on the floating-rate notes 

is three-month LIBOR plus 41 bps. These bank notes will be 

redeemable by the Bank, in whole or in part, on or after the date 
that is 30 days prior to the maturi
ty date at a redemption price equal 
to 100% of the principal amount pl
us accrued and unpaid interest 
through the redemption date.  
On November 20, 2013, the Bank issued and sold, under its 
amended bank notes program, $1.8 billion in aggregate principal 

amount of unsecured senior bank
 notes. The bank notes consisted 
of $1.0 billion of 1.15% senior fixed-rate notes due on 

November 18, 2016 and $750 million of senior floating-rate notes 
due on November 18, 2016. Interest 
on the floating-rate notes is 
three-month LIBOR plus 51 bps. These bank notes will be 

redeemable by the Bank, in whole or in part, on or after the date 

that is 30 days prior to the maturi
ty date at a redemption price equal 
to 100% of the principal amount pl
us accrued and unpaid interest 
up to, but excluding, the redemption date. On April 25, 2014, the Bank issued and sold, under its 
amended bank notes program, $1.5 billion in aggregate principal 
amount of unsecured senior bank
 notes. The bank notes consisted 
of $850 million of 2.375% senior fixed-rate notes due on April 25, 

2019 and $650 million of 1.35% senior fixed-rate notes due on June 

1, 2017. These bank notes will be 
redeemable by the Bank, in whole 
or in part, on or after the date that is 30 days prior to the maturity 

date at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount 

plus accrued and unpaid interest up to, but excluding, the 

redemption date. On September 5, 2014, the Bank issued and sold, under its 
amended bank notes program, $850 million of 2.875% unsecured 

senior fixed-rate bank notes with
 a maturity date of October 1, 
2021. These bank notes will be redeemable by the Bank, in whole or 

in part, on or after the date that is
 30 days prior to the maturity date 
at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal amount plus 

accrued and unpaid interest up to, but excluding, the redemption 

date. On August 20, 2015, the Bank issued and sold, under its 
amended bank notes program, $1.3 billion in aggregate principal 

amount of unsecured senior bank
 notes. The bank notes consisted 
of $1.0 billion of 2.15% senior fi
xed-rate notes due on August 20, 
2018 and $250 million of senior floating-rate notes due on August 

20, 2018. The Bancorp entered into 
interest rate swaps to convert 
the fixed-rate notes to floating-rate, which resulted in an effective 

rate of three-month LIBOR plus 90 bps. Interest on the floating-
rate notes is three-month LIBOR pl
us 91 bps. These bank notes will 
be redeemable by the Bank, in whole or in part, on or after the date 

that is 30 days prior to the maturi
ty date at a redemption price equal 
to 100% of the principal amount pl
us accrued and unpaid interest 
up to, but excluding, the redemption date. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  131  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Junior Subordinated Debt 
The junior subordinated floating-r
ate bank notes due in 2035 were 
assumed by the Bancorp™s banking subsidiary as part of the 

acquisition of First Charter in 
May 2008. The obligation was issued 
to First Charter Capital Trust I an
d II, respectively. The notes of 
First Charter Capital Trust I and II pay a floating-rate at three-
month LIBOR plus 169 bps and 142 bps, respectively. The Bank 
has fully and unconditionally guar
anteed all obligations under the 
acquired TruPS issued by First Charter Capital Trust I and II.  

 
FHLB Advances 

At December 31, 2015, FHLB advances have rates ranging from 

0.05% to 6.87%, with interest payable monthly. The Bancorp has 

pledged $17.3 billion of certain residential mortgage loans and 
securities to secure its borrowing capacity at the Federal Home 
Loan Bank which is partially utilized to fund $37 million in FHLB 
advances that are outstanding. The FHLB advances mature as 

follows: $2 million in 2016, $1 million in 2017, $4 million in 2018, 

$9 million in 2019, $4 million in 2020 and $17 million thereafter.  Notes Associated with Consolidated VIEs 
As previously discussed in Note 11, the Bancorp was determined to 
be the primary beneficiary of various VIEs associated with 

automobile loan securitizations 
completed during the years ended 
December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. As such, $2.5 billion of long-

term debt related to these VIEs 
was consolidated in the Bancorp™s 
Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 2015. Third-

party holders of this debt do not have recourse to the general assets 

of the Bancorp. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  132  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 17. COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND GUARANTEES 
The Bancorp, in the normal course 
of business, enters into financial 
instruments and various agreements to meet the financing needs of 
its customers. The Bancorp also enters into certain transactions and 
agreements to manage its interest rate and prepayment risks, provide 

funding, equipment and locations fo
r its operations and invest in its 
communities. These instruments and 
agreements involve, to varying 
degrees, elements of credit risk, counterparty risk and market risk in 
excess of the amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance 
Sheets. The creditworthiness of co
unterparties for all instruments 
and agreements is evaluated on a case-by-case basis in accordance 
with the Bancorp™s credit polic
ies. The Bancorp™s significant 
commitments, contingent liabilities and guarantees in excess of the 

amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets are 

discussed in further detail below: Commitments
   The Bancorp has certain commitments to make future payments un
der contracts. The following ta
ble reflects a summary of signif
icant commitments as of December 31:
       ($ in millions)
   2015 
 2014 
 Commitments to extend credit 
$  66,884 
 63,827 
Letters of credit 
   3,055 
 3,974 
Forward contracts related to held for sale residential mortgage loans 
   1,330 
 999 
Noncancelable operating lease obligations 
   635 
 697 
Capital commitments for private equity investments 
   60 
 78 
Purchase obligations 
   60 
 77 
Capital expenditures 
   30 
 28 
Capital lease obligations 
   27 
 37 
      Commitments to extend credit 
Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend, typically 

having fixed expiration dates or ot
her termination clauses that may 
require payment of a fee. Since many of the commitments to extend 

credit may expire without being 
drawn upon, the total commitment 
amounts do not necessarily represen
t future cash flow requirements. 
The Bancorp is exposed to credit risk in the event of 

nonperformance by the counterparty for the amount of the 
contract. Fixed-rate commitments 
are also subject to market risk 
resulting from fluctuations in interest rates and the Bancorp™s 
exposure is limited to the repla
cement value of those commitments. 
As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Bancorp had a reserve for 

unfunded commitments, including letters of credit, totaling $138 

million and $135 million, respectively, included in other liabilities in 

the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Bancorp monitors the credit 

risk associated with commitments to extend credit using the same 

risk rating system utilized within its loan and lease portfolio. 
    Risk ratings under this risk rating system are su
mmarized in the following table as of December 31: 
      ($ in millions)
   2015  
2014 
 Pass 
$  65,645 
 62,787 
Special mention 
   647 
 660 
Substandard 
   592 
 380 
Total commitments to extend credit 
$  66,884 
 63,827 
      Letters of credit
   Standby and commercial letters of credit are 
conditional commitments issued to guarant
ee the performance of a customer to a thi
rd party and 
expire as summarized in the following table as of December 31, 2015:
          ($ in millions)
        Less than 1 year
(a)
 $  1,700 
1 - 5 years
(a)    1,301 
Over 5 years
     54 
Total letters of credit
  $  3,055 
(a) Includes $28 and $15 issued on behalf of commercial customers to 
facilitate trade payments in U.S. dollars and foreign currenci
es which expire less than 1 year
 and between 1 and 5 years, 
respectively.   
Standby letters of credit accounted for 99% and 97% of total letters 
of credit at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and are 

considered guarantees in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 

Approximately 65% and 60% of the total standby letters of credit 

were collateralized as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 
In the event of nonperformance by the customers, the Bancorp has 
rights to the underlying collater
al, which can include commercial 
real estate, physical plant and property, inventory, receivables, cash 
and marketable securities. The reserve related to these standby 

letters of credit, which is included
 in the total reserve for unfunded 
commitments, was immaterial at December 31, 2015 and $1 million 

at December 31, 2014. The Bancorp monitors the credit risk 
associated with letters of credit using the same risk rating system 
utilized within its loan and lease portfolio.  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  133  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Risk ratings under this risk rating system are su
mmarized in the following table as of December 31: 
      ($ in millions)
   2015  
2014 
 Pass 
$  2,606 
 3,483 
Special mention 
   130 
 147 
Substandard 
   258 
 299 
Doubtful 
   61 
 45 
Total letters of credit 
$  3,055 
 3,974 
    At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Bancorp had outstanding 
letters of credit that were suppor
ting certain securities issued as 
VRDNs. The Bancorp facilitates financing for its commercial 

customers, which consist of companies and municipalities, by 

marketing the VRDNs to investors. The VRDNs pay interest to 

holders at a rate of interest th
at fluctuates based upon market 
demand. The VRDNs generally have long-term maturity dates, but 

can be tendered by the holder for 
purchase at par value upon proper 
advance notice. When the VRDNs are tendered, a remarketing 
agent generally finds another investor to purchase the VRDNs to 
keep the securities outstanding 
in the market. As of December 31, 
2015 and 2014, total VRDNs in which the Bancorp was the 

remarketing agent or were supported by a Bancorp letter of credit 

were $1.3 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively, of which FTS acted 

as the remarketing agent to issuer
s on $1.1 billion and $1.4 billion, 
respectively. As remarketing agent, FTS is responsible for finding 

purchasers for VRDNs that are put by investors. The Bancorp 
issued letters of credit, as a credit enhancement, to $921 million and 
$1.2 billion of the VRDNs remarketed by FTS, in addition to $187 

million and $247 million in VRDNs remarketed by third parties at 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectivel
y. These letters of credit 
are included in the total letters of credit balance provided in the 

previous table. 
 
Forward contracts related to held fo
r sale residential mortgage loans 
The Bancorp enters into forward contracts to economically hedge 
the change in fair value of certain residential mortgage loans held 

for sale due to changes in interest rates. The outstanding notional 

amounts of these forward contracts are included in the summary of 

significant commitments table for all periods presented. 
 
Noncancelable lease obligations and other commitments 

The Bancorp™s subsidiaries have entered into a number of 
noncancelable lease agreements. The minimum rental commitments 
under noncancelable lease agreements
 are shown in the summary of 
significant commitments table. The Bancorp has also entered into a 

limited number of agreements for work related to banking center 

construction and to purchase goods or services.  

 Contingent Liabilities 
Private mortgage reinsurance For certain mortgage loans originated by the Bancorp, borrowers 
may be required to obtain PMI provided by third-party insurers. In 

some instances, these insurers cede a portion of the PMI premiums 

to the Bancorp, and the Bancorp provides reinsurance coverage 

within a specified range of the total PMI coverage. The Bancorp™s 

reinsurance coverage typically ranges from 5% to 10% of the total 

PMI coverage. The Bancorp™s maximum exposure in the event of 

nonperformance by the underlying borrowers is equivalent to the 
Bancorp™s total outstanding reinsurance coverage, which was $27 
million at December 31, 2015 and $29 million at December 31, 

2014. At both December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Bancorp 

maintained a reserve of $2 million related to exposures within the 

reinsurance portfolio which was included in other liabilities in the 

Consolidated Balance Sheets. Duri
ng 2009, the Bancorp suspended 
the practice of providing reinsurance of PMI for newly originated 
mortgage loans. 
 
Legal claims 

There are legal claims pending against the Bancorp and its 

subsidiaries that have arisen in the normal course of business. Refer 

to Note 18 for additional information regarding these proceedings. 

 Guarantees 
The Bancorp has performance obligations upon the occurrence of 
certain events under financial guarantees provided in certain 

contractual arrangements as discu
ssed in the following sections. 
 
Residential mortgage loans sold with representation and warranty provisions 
Conforming residential mortgage loans sold to unrelated third 

parties are generally sold with representation and warranty 

provisions. A contractual liability aris
es only in the event of a breach 
of these representations and warranties and, in general, only when a 
loss results from the breach. The Bancorp may be required to 

repurchase any previously sold loan or indemnify (make whole) the 

investor or insurer for which the representation or warranty of the 

Bancorp proves to be inaccurate, incomplete or misleading.  For 

more information on how the Bancorp establishes the residential 

mortgage repurchase reserve, refer to Note 1.  

 During the fourth quarter of 2013, the Bancorp settled certain 
repurchase claims related to residential mortgage loans originated 
and sold to FHLMC prior to Janu
ary 1, 2009 for $25 million, after 
paid claim credits and other adjustments. The settlement removes 

the Bancorp™s responsibility to repurchase or indemnify FHLMC 

for representation and warranty violations on any loan sold prior to 

January 1, 2009 except in limited circumstances.  

 As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Bancorp maintained 

reserves related to loans sold with representation and warranty 
provisions totaling $25 million 
and $35 million, respectively, 
included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
The Bancorp uses the best information available when 
estimating its mortgage representation and warranty reserve; 

however, the estimation process is inherently uncertain and 

imprecise and, accordingly, losses in excess of the amounts reserved 

as of December 31, 2015, are reasonably possible. The Bancorp 

currently estimates that it is reasonably possible that it could incur 
losses related to mortgage represen
tation and warranty provisions in 
an amount up to approximately 
$27 million in excess of amounts 
reserved. This estimate was derived by modifying the key 

assumptions previously discussed 
to reflect management's judgment 
regarding reasonably possible adverse changes to those assumptions. 
The actual repurchase losses could vary significantly from the 

recorded mortgage representation and warranty reserve or this 

estimate of reasonably possibly lo
sses, depending on the outcome of 
various factors, including those previously discussed. 
During the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, the 
Bancorp paid $2 million and $11 milli
on, respectively, in the form of make whole payments and repurchased $74 million and $59 million, 

respectively, in outstanding princi
pal of loans to satisfy investor 
demands. Total repurchase demand requests during the years ended 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  134  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 December 31, 2015 and 2014 were $75 million and $97 million, 
respectively. Total outstanding repu
rchase demand inventory was $4 
million at December 31, 2015 compared to $7 million at December 
31, 2014.      The following table summarizes activity in the reserve for re
presentation and warranty provisions for the years ended December 
31: 
      ($ in millions)
   2015 
2014 
Balance, beginning of period 
$  35 
 44 
   Net (reductions) additions to the reserve 
   (3)
 6 
   Losses charged against the reserve 
   (7)
 (15)
Balance, end of period 
$  25 
 35 
    The following tables provide a rollforward of unresolved claims by claimant type for the years ended December 31:
         GSE   Private Label 
 2015 ($ in millions)
 Units
  Dollars 
Units 
Dollars 
Balance, beginning of period 
 37 
$ 6 
 1 
$ 1 
   New demands 
 436 
  33 
 261 
  42 
   Loan paydowns/payoffs 
 (29)
  (2)
 - 
  - 
   Resolved demands 
 (428)
  (33)
 (260)
  (43)
Balance, end of period 
 16 
$ 4 
 2 
$ - 
    GSE   Private Label 
 2014 ($ in millions) 
Units 
 Dollars 
Units 
Dollars 
Balance, beginning of period 
 264 
$ 41 
 33 
$ 5 
   New demands 
 744 
  95 
 14 
  2 
   Loan paydowns/payoffs 
 (44)
  (5)
 (2)
  (1)
   Resolved demands 
 (927)
  (125)
 (44)
  (5)
Balance, end of period 
 37 
$ 6 
 1 
$ 1 
      Residential mortgage loans sold with credit recourse The Bancorp sold certain residential mortgage loans in the 

secondary market with credit recourse. In the event of any customer 
default, pursuant to the credit recourse provided, the Bancorp is 
required to reimburse the third party. The maximum amount of 

credit risk in the event of nonperformance by the underlying 

borrowers is equivalent to the 
total outstanding balance. In the 
event of nonperformance, the Bancorp has rights to the underlying 

collateral value securing the loan. 
The outstanding balances on these 
loans sold with credit recourse were $465 million and $548 million 

at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and the delinquency 
rates were 3.0% at December 31, 2015 and 4.0% at December 31, 
2014. The Bancorp maintained an estimated credit loss reserve on 

these loans sold with credit recourse of $9 million at December 31, 

2015 and $11 million at December 31, 2014 recorded in other 

liabilities in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheets. To determine the 
credit loss reserve, the Bancorp used an approach that is consistent 

with its overall approach in esti
mating credit losses for various 
categories of residential mortgage 
loans held in its loan portfolio.  Margin accounts 

FTS, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bancorp, 

guarantees the collection of all margin account balances held by its 

brokerage clearing agent for the benefit of its customers. FTS is 

responsible for payment to its brokerage clearing agent for any loss, 

liability, damage, cost or expense in
curred as a result of customers 
failing to comply with margin or 
margin maintenance calls on all 
margin accounts. The margin acco
unt balance held by the brokerage 
clearing agent was $10 million at December 31, 2015 and $13 

million at December 31, 2014. In the event of any customer default, 

FTS has rights to the underlying collateral provided. Given the 

existence of the underlying co
llateral provided and negligible 
historical credit losses, the Bancor
p does not maintain a loss reserve 
related to the margin accounts. 

 Long-term borrowing obligations The Bancorp had certain fully and unconditionally guaranteed long-

term borrowing obligations issued by wholly-owned issuing trust 
entities of $62 million at both December 31, 2015 and 2014.  
 
Visa litigation 
The Bancorp, as a member bank of Visa prior to Visa™s 

reorganization and IPO (the ﬁIPOﬂ) of its Class A common shares 

(the ﬁClass A Sharesﬂ) in 2008, had certain indemnification 

obligations pursuant to Visa™s cer
tificate of incorporation and by-
laws and in accordance with th
eir membership agreements. In 
accordance with Visa™s by-laws prior to the IPO, the Bancorp could 
have been required to indemnify Visa for the Bancorp™s 

proportional share of losses based on the pre-IPO membership 

interests. As part of its reorganization and IPO, the Bancorp™s 

indemnification obligation was modified to include only certain 

known or anticipated litigation (the
 ﬁCovered Litigationﬂ) as of the 
date of the restructuring. This 
modification triggered a requirement 
for the Bancorp to recognize a liabilit
y equal to the fair value of the 
indemnification liability.  
In conjunction with the IPO, the Bancorp received 10.1 million 
of Visa™s Class B common shares
 (the ﬁClass B Sharesﬂ) based on 
the Bancorp™s membership percentage in Visa prior to the IPO. The 

Class B Shares are not transferable
 (other than to another member 
bank) until the later of the third anniversary of the IPO closing or 

the date which the Covered Litigation has been resolved; therefore, 

the Bancorp™s Class B Shares were classified in other assets and 
accounted for at their carryover 
basis of $0. Visa deposited $3 
billion of the proceeds from the IPO into a litigation escrow 

account, established for the purpose of funding judgments in, or 

settlements of, the Covered Litigation. Since then, when Visa™s 

litigation committee determined that the escrow account was 

insufficient, Visa issued additional Class A Shares and deposited the 

proceeds from the sale of the Class A Shares into the litigation 

escrow account. When Visa funded
 the litigation escrow account, 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  135  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 the Class B Shares were subjected 
to dilution through an adjustment 
in the conversion rate of Cla
ss B Shares into Class A Shares. 
In 2009, the Bancorp completed the sale of Visa, Inc. Class B 
Shares and entered into a total re
turn swap in which the Bancorp 
will make or receive payments based on subsequent changes in the 

conversion rate of the Class B Shares into Class A Shares. The swap 
terminates on the later of the third anniversary of Visa™s IPO or the 
date on which the Covered Litigation is settled. Refer to Note 27 for 

additional information on the valuation of the swap. The 

counterparty to the swap as a result of its ownership of the Class B 

Shares will be impacted by dilu
tive adjustments to the conversion 
rate of the Class B Shares into Class A Shares caused by any 

Covered Litigation losses in excess of
 the litigation escrow account. 
If actual judgments in, or settlements of, the Covered Litigation 
significantly exceed current expect
ations, then additional funding by 
Visa of the litigation escrow account and the resulting dilution of 

the Class B Shares could result in a scenario where the Bancorp™s 

ultimate exposure associated with the Covered Litigation (the ﬁVisa 

Litigation Exposureﬂ) exceeds the 
value of the Class B Shares 
owned by the swap counterparty (th
e ﬁClass B Valueﬂ). In the event 
the Bancorp concludes that it is 
probable that the Visa Litigation 
Exposure exceeds the Class B Value,
 the Bancorp would record a 
litigation reserve liability and a corresponding amount of other 

noninterest expense for the amount of the excess. Any such 

litigation reserve liability would be separate and distinct from the 

fair value derivative liability associated with the total return swap. 
As of the date of the Bancorp™s sale of the Visa Class B Shares 
and through December 31, 2015, the Bancorp has concluded that it 
is not probable that the Visa 
Litigation Exposure will exceed the 
Class B value. Based on this determination, upon the sale of the 

Class B Shares, the Bancorp reversed its net Visa litigation reserve 

liability and recognized a free-standi
ng derivative liability associated 
with the total return swap. The f
air value of the swap liability was 
$61 million and $49 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, 

respectively. Refer to Note 13 and 
Note 27 for further information. 
After the Bancorp™s sale of the 
Class B Shares, Visa has funded 
additional amounts into the litigation escrow account which have 

resulted in further dilutive adjust
ments to the conversion of Class B 
Shares into Class A Shares, and al
ong with other terms of the total 
return swap, required the Bancorp to make cash payments in 

varying amounts to the swap counterparty as follows: 
                        Visa     Bancorp Cash 
    Period ($ in millions)
    Funding Amount 
     Payment Amount    Q2 2010
   $500 
  20    Q4 2010
    800 
    35    Q2 2011
   400 
    19    Q1 2012
   1,565 
    75    Q3 2012
   150 
    6    Q3 2014
     450 
    18    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  136  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 18. LEGAL AND REGULATORY PROCEEDINGS 
During April 2006, the Bancorp was added as a defendant in a 
consolidated antitrust class action lawsuit originally filed against 
Visa®, MasterCard® and several other major financial institutions 
in the United States District Cour
t for the Eastern District of New 
York. The plaintiffs, merchants operating commercial businesses 

throughout the U.S. and trade associations, claimed that the 

interchange fees charged by card-issuing banks were unreasonable 

and sought injunctive relief and un
specified damages. In addition to 
being a named defendant, the Bancorp is also subject to a possible 

indemnification obligation of Visa as discussed in Note 17 and has 
also entered into judgment and lo
ss sharing agreements with Visa, 
MasterCard and certain other named defendants. In October 2012, 

the parties to the litigation ente
red into a settlement agreement. On 
January 14, 2014, the court entered 
a final order approving the class settlement. A number of merchants have filed appeals from that 

approval. The appellate court held a hearing on those appeals on 

September 28, 2015, and the matter 
is under consideration. In 
addition, on July 28, 2015, the 
merchants who oppose the class 
settlement filed a motion in the District Court to set aside the order 
approving the settlement because of alleged misconduct by one of 

the merchant class counsel in another case and a former attorney for 

MasterCard. Defendants opposed 
the motion on August 17, 2015. 
The court has not set a hearing on the motion. Pursuant to the 

terms of the settlement agreement, the Bancorp paid $46 million 

into a class settlement escrow accoun
t. Previously, the Bancorp paid 
an additional $4 million in another settlement escrow in connection 
with the settlement of claims from
 plaintiffs not included in the 
class action. Approximately 8,000 merchants have requested 

exclusion from the class settlement. Pursuant to the terms of the 

settlement agreement, 25% of the funds paid into the class 

settlement escrow account have been returned to the control of the 

defendants through Class Exclusion Takedown Payments. More 

than 460 of the merchants who requested exclusion from the class 

have filed separate federal lawsuits against Visa, MasterCard and 
certain other defendants alleging si
milar antitrust violations. These 
ﬁopt-outﬂ federal lawsuits have 
been transferred to the United 
States District Court for the Ea
stern District of New York. The 
Bancorp was not named as a defendant in any of the opt-out federal 

lawsuits, but may have obligations pursuant to indemnification 

arrangements and/or the judgment or loss sharing agreements 

noted above. In addition, one merchant filed a separate state court 

lawsuit against Visa, MasterCard and certain other defendants, 
including the Bancorp, alleging sim
ilar antitrust violations. The state 
court lawsuit has been settled. On 
July 18, 2015, the court in which 
all but one of the opt-out federal lawsuits have been consolidated 

denied defendants™ motion to dismiss the complaints. Refer to Note 

17 for further information. 
On January 15, 2016, the Bancorp agreed to pay $6 million and 
make certain changes to the Bancor
p™s profit sharing plan to settle 
two class action lawsuits consolidated as 
Dudenhoeffer v Fifth Third 
Bancorp et al. (Case No. 1:08-cv-538) 
filed in 2008 in the United States 
District Court for the Southern 
District of Ohio. The complaints 
alleged that the Bancorp and certain officers violated ERISA by 

continuing to offer Fifth Third stock in the Bancorp™s profit sharing 

plan when it was no longer a prudent investment. The settlement is 

subject to court approval.  
In November 2014, a shareholder of the Bancorp filed a 
shareholder derivative suit in the Court of Common Pleas for 
Hamilton County, Ohio, against current and former members of the 
Bancorp™s Board of Directors, the Bancorp™s former Chief Financial 

Officer, Daniel T. Poston, the Ba
ncorp™s former Chief Executive 
Officer, Kevin T. Kabat, and, nominally, the Bancorp. The suit 

alleges breach of fiduciary duty, wast
e of corporate assets and unjust 
enrichment in connection with the 
Bancorp™s alleged violations of 
federal and state securities laws, among other charges, in relation to 
its administrative settlement with th
e United States Securities and 
Exchange Commission announced 
on December 4, 2013 to resolve 
the previously reported investigation of the Bancorp™s historical 

accounting and reporting with re
spect to certain commercial loans 
that were sold or reclassified as held for sale by the Bancorp in the 

fourth quarter of 2008. The su
it seeks, among other things, 
unspecified monetary damages, di
sgorgement of profits, certain 
corporate governance and personnel actions and compliance and 
disclosure changes. On January 16, 2015, a motion to dismiss the 
complaint was filed on behalf of all 
defendants, which the plaintiff 
opposed. On May 18, 2015, the court dismissed the complaint with 

prejudice and no appeal was filed. This matter has been concluded.  
The Bancorp and its subsidiaries are not parties to any other 
material litigation. However, there are other litigation matters that 

arise in the normal course of busi
ness. While it is impossible to 
ascertain the ultimate resolution or range of financial liability with 
respect to these contingent matters, management believes that 
resulting liability, if any, from these other actions would not have a 

material effect upon the Bancorp™s consolidated financial position, 

results of operations or cash flows. 
The Bancorp and/or its affiliates are involved in information-
gathering requests, reviews, investigations and proceedings (both 

formal and informal) by various governmental regulatory agencies 

and law enforcement authorities, as
 well as self-regulatory bodies 
regarding their respective businesses. Additional matters will likely 
arise from time to time. Any of th
ese matters may result in material 
adverse consequences to the Banc
orp, its affiliates and/or their 
respective directors, officers and other personnel, including adverse 

judgments, findings, settlements, fines, penalties, orders, injunctions 

or other actions, amendments and/or restatements of the Bancorp™s 

SEC filings and/or financial statements, as applicable, and/or 

determinations of material weaknesses in our disclosure controls 
and procedures. Investigations by
 regulatory authorities may from 
time to time result in civil or cr
iminal referrals to law enforcement 
authorities such as the Department of Justice or a United States 

Attorney.  On September 30, 2015, the Bancorp agreed to pay 
approximately $85 million to cover losses on approximately 500 

loans for which HUD had paid FHA insurance claims, and an 

additional $2 million to HUD, in connection with the Bancorp™s 
entry into a Stipulation and Order of Settlement and Dismissal with 
the Department of Justice and HUD, which was approved by the 

U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York on 

October 5, 2015, and a related Settlement Agreement with HUD. 

The total amount is within the am
ount the Bancorp had previously 
included in its accrual for this matter. The Bancorp has also agreed 
to indemnify HUD for any losses related to approximately 900 loans 

which have not been the subject of mortgage insurance claims. The 
settlement resulted in part from th
e Bancorp™s voluntary disclosure 
of approximately 1,400 mortgages that it had previously certified as 

eligible for FHA insurance but which were later determined to be 

ineligible for such insurance. On September 28, 2015, the Bancorp entered into consent 
orders and agreed, without admitting or denying any of the findings 

of fact or conclusions of law (excep
t to establish jurisdiction), to pay 
$18 million to consumers in a settlement with the Department of 
Justice and the CFPB related to an investigation into whether Fifth 
Third Bank engaged in any discriminatory practices in connection 

with the Bank™s indirect automobile
 loan portfolio. This amount is 
within the amount included in the 
Bancorp™s accrual for this matter. 
This amount is also subject to a credit of between $5 million and $6 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  137  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 million for remediation the Bancorp had already paid. The consent 
orders also provide that the Bancorp will implement a new dealer 

compensation policy and that the Bancorp™s Board of Directors will 

oversee its compliance with the consent orders. On September 28, 2015, the Bancorp agreed to pay an amount 
not less than $3 million in redress to consumers and a civil penalty 
of $500,000 to the CFPB in connecti
on with its entry into a consent 
order with the CFPB related to the marketing and administration of 

the Bancorp™s debt protection credit card ﬁadd-onﬂ product for 

those enrolled in the product from January 1, 2007, through 

November 11, 2013. This $3.5 m
illion is within the amount the 
Bancorp had included in its accrual for this matter. As part of this 

settlement, the Bancorp has also agreed, without admitting or 

denying any findings of fact or
 conclusions of law (except to 
establish jurisdiction), to adopt 
a compliance plan with respect to 
the advertising, marketing, promotion,
 offering or sale of any credit 
card add-on products, the performance of any such products and 

the management of its vendors with respect to such products and 

not to market or sell similar debt protection add-on products 

without first securing a determ
ination of non-objection from the 
CFPB. 
The Bancorp and its subsidiaries are parties to numerous 
claims and lawsuits as well as th
reatened or potential actions or 
claims concerning matters arising from the conduct of its business 

activities. The outcome of claims or litigation and the timing of 

ultimate resolution are inherently di
fficult to predict. The following 
factors, among others, 
contribute to this lack of predictability: 
plaintiff claims often include significant legal uncertainties, damages 

alleged by plaintiffs are often unspecified or overstated, discovery 

may not have started or may not be complete and material facts may 
be disputed or unsubstantiated. As a result of these factors, the 
Bancorp is not always able to provide an estimate of the range of 

reasonably possible outcomes for each claim. An accrual for a 

potential litigation loss is established when information related to 

the loss contingency indicates both that a loss is probable and that 

the amount of loss can be reasonabl
y estimated. Any such accrual is 
adjusted from time to time thereafter as appropriate to reflect 

changes in circumstances. The Bancorp also determines, when 
possible (due to the uncertainties described above), estimates of 
reasonably possible losses or ranges 
of reasonably possible losses, in 
excess of amounts accrued. Under U.S. GAAP, an event is 

ﬁreasonably possibleﬂ if ﬁthe chan
ce of the future event or events 
occurring is more than remote but 
less than likelyﬂ and an event is 
ﬁremoteﬂ if ﬁthe chance of the future event or events occurring is 

slight.ﬂ Thus, references to the upper end of the range of reasonably 

possible loss for cases in which the Bancorp is able to estimate a 
range of reasonably possible loss mean the upper end of the range 
of loss for cases for which the Bancorp believes the risk of loss is 

more than slight. For matters where 
the Bancorp is able to estimate 
such possible losses or ranges 
of possible losses, the Bancorp 
currently estimates that it is reasonably possible that it could incur 

losses related to legal and regulatory proceedings in an aggregate 

amount up to approximately $
37 million in excess of amounts 
accrued, with it also being reason
ably possible that no losses will be 
incurred in these matters. The estima
tes included in this amount are 
based on the Bancorp™s analysis of 
currently available information, 
and as new information is obtained the Bancorp may change its 

estimates. For these matters and others where an unfavorable outcome is 
reasonably possible but not probabl
e, there may be a range of 
possible losses in excess of the established accrual that cannot be 

estimated. Based on information currently available, advice of 
counsel, available insurance covera
ge and established accruals, the 
Bancorp believes that the eventual outcome of the actions against 
the Bancorp and/or its subsidiaries, including the matters described 
above, will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material 

adverse effect on the Bancorp™s 
consolidated financial position. 
However, in the event of unexpect
ed future developments, it is 
possible that the ultimate resolution 
of those matters, if unfavorable, 
may be material to the Bancorp™
s results of operations for any 
particular period, depending, in 
part, upon the size of the loss or 
liability imposed and the operating re
sults for the applicable period. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  138  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 19. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
The Bancorp maintains written policies and procedures covering 
related party transactions to principal shareholders, directors and 
executives of the Bancorp. These procedures cover transactions 
such as employee-stock purchase 
loans, personal lines of credit, 
residential secured loans, overdrafts, letters of credit and increases in 

indebtedness. Such transactions are subject to the Bancorp™s normal 

underwriting and approval procedures
. Prior to approving a loan to 
a related party, Compliance Risk Management must review and 
determine whether the transaction requires approval from or a post 
notification to the Bancorp™s Board of Directors. At December 31, 
2015 and 2014, certain directors, 
executive officers, principal 
holders of Bancorp common stock and their related interests were 

indebted, including undrawn commitments to lend, to the Bancorp™s 

banking subsidiary.   The following table summarizes the Bancorp™s 
lending activities with its principal sh
areholders, directors, executives and thei
r related interests at 
December 31:     ($ in millions)
   2015 
2014
Commitments to lend, net of participations: 
      Directors and their affiliated companies 
$ 831 
525
Executive officers    5 
3Total 
$ 836 
528
    Outstanding balance on loans, net of participations and undrawn commitments
$ 97 
63    The commitments to lend are in the form of loans and guarantees 
for various business and personal interests. This indebtedness was 
incurred in the ordinary course of business on substantially the same 

terms, including interest rates an
d collateral, as those prevailing at 
the time for comparable transactions
 with unrelated parties. This 
indebtedness does not involve more than the normal risk of 

repayment or present other features unfavorable to the Bancorp. 

 
Vantiv Holding, LLC  
On June 30, 2009, the Bancorp completed the sale of a majority 
interest in its processing business, Vantiv Holding, LLC. Advent 
International acquired an approximate 51% interest in Vantiv 
Holding, LLC for cash and a warrant. The Bancorp retained the 
remaining approximate 49% interest in Vantiv Holding, LLC.  
During the first quarter of 2012, Vantiv, Inc. priced an IPO of 
its shares and contributed the net proceeds to Vantiv Holding, LLC 

for additional ownership interests. As a result of this offering, the 

Bancorp™s ownership of Vantiv Holding, LLC was reduced to 

approximately 39%. The impact of the capital contributions to 

Vantiv Holding, LLC and the resu
lting dilution in the Bancorp™s 
interest resulted in a gain of $
115 million recognized by the Bancorp 
in the first quarter of 2012.    The following table provides a summary of the sales transactions 
that impacted the Bancorp's ownership interest in Vantiv Holdi
ng, LLC after the 
initial IPO:
        Ownership 
Percentage Sold
   Gain on Sale 
Remaining Ownership 
Percentage(a) ($ in millions)
 Q4 2012 
6 %   $ 157 
  33 
%  Q2 2013
 5       242 
  28 
   Q3 2013
 3      85 
  25 
   Q2 2014
 3       125 
  23 
   Q4 2015
 5       331 
  18 
   (a) The Bancorp™s remaining investment in Vantiv Holding, LLC of 
$360
 as of 
December 31, 2015
 was accounted for as an equity method invest
ment in the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial 
Statements. 
During the fourth quarter of 2015,
 the Bancorp entered into an 
agreement with Vantiv, Inc. under which a portion of its TRA with 

Vantiv, Inc. was terminated and settled in full for a cash payment of 
approximately $49 million from Vantiv, Inc. Under the agreement, 
the Bancorp sold certain TRA cash flows it expected to receive 

from 2017 to 2030, totaling an
 estimated $140 million. 
Approximately half of the sold TRA cash flows related to 2025 and 

later. This sale did not impact the TRA payment recognized during 

the fourth quarter of 2015 and is not expected to impact the TRA 

payment to be recognized in the fo
urth quarter of 2016. In addition 
to the impact of the TRA termination discussed above, the Bancorp 
recognized $31 million, $23 milli
on and $9 million in noninterest 
income in the Consolidated Statements of Income associated with 

the TRA during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 

2013, respectively. The Bancorp agreed during the fourth quarter of 2015 to 
cancel rights to purchase approximately 4.8 million Class C units in 

Vantiv Holding, LLC, the who
lly-owned principal operating 
subsidiary of Vantiv, Inc., underlying the warrant in exchange for a 
cash payment of $200 million. Subse
quent to this cancellation, the 
Bancorp exercised its right to pu
rchase approximately 7.8 million 
Class C units underlying the warrant at the $15.98 strike price. This 
exercise was settled on a net basi
s for approximately 5.4 million 
Class C units, which were then exchanged for approximately 5.4 

million shares of Vantiv, Inc. Class A common stock that were sold 

in the secondary offering. The Ba
ncorp recognized a gain of $89 
million on the 62% of the warrant that
 was settled or net exercised.  
Additionally, during the fourth quarter of 2015, the Bancorp 
exchanged 8 million Class B units of Vantiv Holding, LLC for 8 

million Class A shares in Vantiv, Inc., which were also sold in the 
secondary offering and on which the Bancorp recognized a pre-tax 
gain of $331 million. The Bancorp™s remaining investment in Vantiv 

Holding, LLC continues to be 
accounted for under the equity 
method of accounting.  
As of December 31, 2015, the Bancorp continued to hold 
approximately 35 million Class B units of Vantiv Holding, LLC and 

a warrant to purchase approximat
ely 7.8 million Class C non-voting 
units of Vantiv Holding, LLC, both of which may be exchanged for 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  139  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Class A common stock of Vantiv, In
c. on a one-for-one basis or at 
Vantiv, Inc.™s option for cash. 
In addition, the Bancorp holds 
approximately 35 million Class B 
common shares of Vantiv, Inc. 
The Class B common shares give the Bancorp voting rights, but no 

economic interest in Vantiv, Inc. Th
e voting rights attributable to 
the Class B common shares are limited to 18.5% of the voting 
power in Vantiv, Inc. at any time 
other than in connection with a 
stockholder vote with respect to a change in control in Vantiv, Inc. 

These securities are subject to 
certain terms and restrictions. 
The Bancorp recognized $63 million, $48 million and $77 
million, respectively, in other noninterest income as part of its 

equity method investment in Vantiv Holding, LLC for the years 

ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 and received cash 

distributions totaling $11 million, $23 million and $40 million during 
the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 
The Bancorp and Vantiv Holding, LLC have various 
agreements in place covering services relating to the operations of 

Vantiv Holding, LLC. The services provided by the Bancorp to 

Vantiv Holding, LLC were initial
ly required to support Vantiv 
Holding, LLC as a standalone 
entity during the deconversion 
period. The majority of services pr
eviously provided by the Bancorp 
to support Vantiv Holding, Inc. as a standalone entity are no longer 
necessary and are now limited to certain general business resources. 
Vantiv Holding, LLC paid the Bancorp $1 million for these services 

for each of the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. 

Other services provided to Vantiv Holding, LLC by the Bancorp, 

have continued beyond the deconversion period, include 

interchange clearing, settlement and sponsorship. Vantiv Holding, 

LLC paid the Bancorp $47 million, $44 million and $34 million for 

these services for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 
2013, respectively. In addition to the previously mentioned services, 
the Bancorp previously entered into an agreement under which 

Vantiv Holding, LLC will provide processing services to the 

Bancorp. The total amount of fees relating to the processing 

services provided to the Bancorp by Vantiv Holding, LLC totaled 

$89 million, $83 million and $88 million for the years ended 

December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, re
spectively. These fees are 
reported as a component of card and processing expense in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income. 
As part of the initial sale, Vant
iv Holding, LLC assumed loans 
totaling $1.25 billion owed to the Bancorp, which were refinanced 

in 2010 into a larger syndicated lo
an structure that included the 
Bancorp. The outstanding carryi
ng value of loans to Vantiv 
Holding, LLC was $191 and $204 million at December 31, 2015 and 
2014, respectively. Interest income relating to the loans was $4 
million, $5 million and $7 million, 
respectively, for the years ended 
December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 and is
 included in interest and 
fees on loans and leases in the C
onsolidated Statements of Income. 
Vantiv Holding, LLC™s unused line of credit was $46 million and 

$50 million as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively.  
SLK Global As of December 31, 2015, the Bancorp owns 100% of Fifth Third 

Mauritius Holdings Limited, which owns 49% of SLK Global, and 

accounts for this investment under the equity method of 

accounting. The Bancorp™s investment in SLK Global was $6 

million at both December 31, 2015 and 2014. The Bancorp 

recognized $3 million in othe
r noninterest income in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income as part of its equity method 
investment in SLK Global for th
e years ended December 31, 2015 
and 2014 and $2 million for the year ended December 31, 2013 and 

received an immaterial amount of ca
sh distributions during the years 
ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. The Bancorp paid SLK 

Global $17 million, $13 million and $16 million for their process 

and software services during the years ended December 31, 2015, 

2014 and 2013, respectively.  

 CDC Investments 
The Bancorp had $5 million of loans outstanding to its CDC 

investments at both December 31, 2015 and 2014 and unfunded 

commitment balances of $88 million and $9 million at December 

31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The Bancorp held $23 million and 

$29 million of deposits for its CDC investments at December 31, 

2015 and 2014, respectively. For further information on CDC 

investments, refer to Note 11. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  140  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 20. INCOME TAXES 
The Bancorp and its subsidiaries file a consolidated federal in
come tax return. The following is a summary of applicable income
 taxes included in 
the Consolidated Statements of Income 
for the years ended December 31:   
     ($ in millions)
   2015 
2014 
2013 
Current income tax expense: 
             U.S. Federal income taxes 
$ 662 
424 
 494 
     State and local income taxes 
  55 
34 
 23 
     Foreign income taxes 
  13  8 
 2 
Total current income tax expense  
  730 
466 
 519 
Deferred income tax (benefit) expense: 
             U.S. Federal income taxes 
  (78)71 
 232 
     State and local income taxes 
  6 9  23 
     Foreign income taxes 
  1  (1)
 (2)
Total deferred income tax (benefit) expense 
   (71)
 79 
 253 
Applicable income tax expense  
$  659 
 545 
 772 
      The following is a reconciliation between the statutory U.S. Fede
ral income tax rate and the Bancorp™s effective tax rate for t
he years ended
December 31:            2015 
  2014 
2013 
Statutory tax rate 
  35.0 
%35.0 
35.0 
Increase (decrease) resulting from: 
             State taxes, net of federal benefit 
  1.7   1.4 
1.2 
     Tax-exempt income 
  (1.7)  (1.4)
(1.1)
     Credits 
  (7.5)  (8.1)
(6.0)
     Unrealized stock-based compensation benefits 
  -   - 0.3 
     Other, net 
  0.3 
  - 0.3 
Effective tax rate 
  27.8 
%26.9 
29.7 
       Credits in the rate reconciliation table include Low-Income 
Housing, New Markets, Rehabilitation Investment and Qualified 

Zone Academy Bond tax credits. Tax-exempt income in the rate 

reconciliation table includes interest on municipal bonds, interest on 
tax-exempt lending, income/charges on life insurance policies held 
by the Bancorp, and certain gains on
 sales of leases that are exempt 
from federal taxation.  The following table provides a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of the Bancorp™s unrecognized tax benefits:            ($ in millions)
    2015 
2014 
2013 
Unrecognized tax benefits at January 1
  $  11 
 7 
 18 
Gross increases for tax positions taken during prior period
     1 
 2 
 1 
Gross decreases for tax positions taken during prior period
    - -  (7)
Gross increases for tax positions taken during current period
     2 
 2 
 1 
Settlements with taxing authorities
    - -  (5)
Lapse of applicable statute of limitations
     (1)
-  (1)
Unrecognized tax bene
fits at December 31
(a) $ 13 11 
7 (a) Amounts represent unrecognized tax benefits that, if reco
gnized, would affect the annual effective tax rate. 
The Bancorp™s unrecognized tax be
nefits as of December 31, 2015, 
2014, and 2013 primarily relate to st
ate income tax exposures from 
taking tax positions where the Ba
ncorp believes it is likely that, 
upon examination, a state will ta
ke a position contrary to the 
position taken by the Bancorp. 
While it is reasonably possible that the amount of the 
unrecognized tax benefits with respect to certain of the Bancorp™s 

uncertain tax positions could increa
se or decrease during the next 
twelve months, the Bancorp believes it is unlikely that its 
unrecognized tax benefits will chan
ge by a material amount during 
the next twelve months. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  141  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Deferred income taxes are comprised of the following items at December 31:
   ($ in millions)
  2015 
2014 
Deferred tax assets: 
          Allowance for loan and lease losses
 $445 
463 
     Deferred compensation 
 118 113 
     Reserves 
 61 96 
     Reserve for unfunded commitments 
 48 
47 
     State net operating loss carryforwards 
 10 18 
     Other 
 194 189 
Total deferred tax assets 
$876 
926 
Deferred tax liabilities: 
        Lease financing 
$935 
896 
     Investments in joint ventures and partnership interests 
 248 
329 
     MSRs and related economic hedges 
 245 
237 
     Other comprehensive income 
 106 231 
     State deferred taxes 
 79 
81 
     Qualifying hedges and free-standing derivatives 
58 
105 
     Bank premises and equipment 
 53 
103 
     Other   
 160 148 
Total deferred tax liabilities 
$1,884 
2,130 
Total net deferred tax liability 
$(1,008)(1,204)
  At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Bancorp recorded deferred tax 
assets of $10 million and $18 million, respectively, related to state 

net operating loss carryforwards. The deferred tax assets relating to 

state net operating losses (primarily resulting from leasing 

operations) are presented net of specific valuation allowances of $22 
million and $19 million at December 31, 2015 and 2014, 
respectively. If these carryforwards 
are not utilized, they will expire 
in varying amounts through 2035. At December 31, 2015, the 

Bancorp recorded a deferred tax asset of $5 million related to a 

foreign tax credit carryforward. If not utilized, the deferred tax asset 

relating to the foreign tax credit carryforward will expire in 2025. 
The Bancorp has determined that
 a valuation allowance is not 
needed against the remaining deferred tax assets as of December 31, 
2015 or 2014. The Bancorp considered all of the positive and 
negative evidence available to determine whether it is more likely 

than not that the deferred tax assets
 will ultimately be realized and, 
based upon that evidence, the Bancorp believes it is more likely than 

not that the deferred tax assets recorded at December 31, 2015 and 

2014 will ultimately be realized. The Bancorp reached this 

conclusion as the Bancorp has taxable income in the carryback 

period and it is expected that the Bancorp™s remaining deferred tax 
assets will be realized through the reversal of its existing taxable 
temporary differences and its projected future taxable income.  
The IRS has concluded its audit of the Bancorp™s 2010 and 
2011 federal income tax returns. No 
material issues were identified 
as a result of the IRS audit and there are no contested issues 
outstanding. The IRS is currently examining the Bancorp™s 2012 and 
2013 federal income tax returns. The statute of limitations for the 

Bancorp™s federal income tax returns remains open for tax years 

2010-2015. On occasion, as various state and local taxing 

jurisdictions examine the returns of the Bancorp and its subsidiaries, 
the Bancorp may agree to extend the statute of limitations for a 
reasonable period of time. Otherwise,
 the statutes of limitations for 
state income tax returns remain open only for tax years in 

accordance with each state™s statutes. 
Any interest and penalties incurred in connection with income 
taxes are recorded as a componen
t of income tax expense in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. During the years ended 

December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, the Bancorp recognized an 
immaterial amount of interest expense/benefit in connection with 
income taxes. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Bancorp had 

accrued interest liabilities, net of the related tax benefits, of $1 

million. No material liabilities were 
recorded for penalties related to 
income taxes. Retained earnings at December 31, 2015 and 2014 included 
$157 million in allocations of earnings for bad debt deductions of 

former thrift subsidiaries for which no income tax has been 
provided. Under current tax law, 
if certain of the Bancorp™s 
subsidiaries use these bad debt reserves for purposes other than to 

absorb bad debt losses, they will be subject to federal income tax at 

the current corporate tax rate. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  142  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 21. RETIREMENT AND BENEFIT PLANS The Bancorp™s qualified defined benefit plan™s benefits were frozen 
in 1998, except for grandfathered employees. The Bancorp™s other 
retirement plans consist of non-qua
lified, defined benefit plans, 
which are frozen and funded on an as needed basis. A majority of 

these plans were obtained in acqui
sitions from prior years and are 
included with the qualified define
d benefit plan in the following 
tables (ﬁthe Planﬂ). The Bancorp recognizes the overfunded and 
underfunded status of the Plan as 
an asset and liability, respectively, 
in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Plan had an underfunded 
projected benefit obligation at both December 31, 2015 and 2014. 
The underfunded amounts recognized in other liabilities in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets were $54 million and $52 million at 

December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 
     The following table summarizes the Plan as of and for the years ended December 31:
        ($ in millions)
  2015 
2014 
Fair value of plan assets at January 1
  $ 195 
 200 
Actual return on assets
   (6)
 12 
Contributions
   4 
 3 
Settlement   (17)
 (11)
Benefits paid
   (10)
 (9)
Fair value of plan 
assets at December 31
  $ 166 
 195 
Projected benefit obligation at January 1
  $ 247 
 221 
Interest cost   9 
 10 
Settlement   (17)
 (11)
Actuarial (gain) loss
   (9)
 36 
Benefits paid
   (10)
 (9)
Projected benefit obligation at December 31
  $ 220 
 247 
Underfunded projected benefi
t obligation at December 31  $ (54)
 (52)
Accumulated benefit obligation at December 31
(a)
 $ 220 
 247 
(a) Since the Plan™s benefits were frozen, the rate of compensation in
crease is no longer an assumption used to calculate the accum
ulated benefit obligation. Therefore, 
the accumulated benefit obligation was 
the same as the projected benefit obligation at both 
December 31, 2015
 and 2014. 
The estimated net actuarial loss for the Plan that will be amortized 
from AOCI into net periodic benefit cost during 2016 is $10 
million. The estimated net prior service cost for the Plan that will be 
amortized from AOCI into net periodic benefit cost during 2016 is 
immaterial to the Consolidated Financial Statements.    
    The following table summarizes net periodic benefit cost and othe
r changes in the Plan's assets and benefit obligations recogni
zed in OCI for the 
years ended December 31: 
      ($ in millions)
 2015
2014 
2013
Components of net periodic benefit cost: 
        Interest cost $910 
10  Expected return on assets (13)(14)
(13)
  Amortization of net actuarial loss 
107 11  Settlement 
75 5Net periodic benefit cost 
$138 13Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive income: 
  Net actuarial loss (gain) 
$937 
(38)
  Amortization of net actuarial loss 
(10)(7)
(11)
  Settlement 
(7)(5)
(5)
Total recognized in other comprehensive income 
(8)25 
(54)
Total recognized in net periodic benefit cost and other comprehensive income 
$533 
(41)
        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  143  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Fair Value Measurements of Plan Assets
   The following tables summarize plan assets measured 
at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31:
                Fair Value Measurements Using
(a)
 2015 ($ in millions)
  Level 1
 Level 2 
Level 3 
Total Fair Value
 Equity securities
(b)
 $ 52 
   -   - 
   52
   Mutual and exchange-traded funds:
                     Money market funds   15 
   -   - 
   15
     International funds
   - 
   35
   - 
   35
     Domestic funds
   - 
   31   - 
   31     Debt funds
   - 
   3   - 
   3     Alternative strategies
   - 
   11
   - 
   11
     Commodity funds
   6 
   -   - 
   6   Total mutual and exchange-traded funds
  $ 21 
   80
   - 
   101
   Debt securities:
                     U.S. Treasury and fede
ral agencies securities
   2 
   2   - 
   4     Mortgage-backed securities:
                          Agency residential mortgage-backed securities
   - 
   3   - 
   3          Agency commercial mortgage-backed securities
   - 
   2   - 
   2          Non-agency commercia
l mortgage-backed securities
   - 
   1   - 
   1     Asset-backed securities an
d other debt securities
(c)
  - 
   3   - 
   3   Total debt securities
  $ 2 
   11
   - 
   13
   Total plan assets
  $ 75 
   91   - 
   166
   (a) For further information on fair value hierarchy levels, refer to Note 1.  
(b) Includes holdings in Bancorp common stock. 
(c) Includes corporate bonds. 
             Fair Value Measurements Using
(a)
 2014 ($ in millions)
  Level 1
  Level 2 
  Level 3 
 Total Fair Value
 Equity securities
(b)
 $ 56 
   -   - 
   56
   Mutual and exchange-traded funds:
                     Money market funds   7 
   -   - 
   7     International funds
   - 
   38
   - 
   38
     Domestic funds
   - 
   31
   - 
   31
     Debt funds
   - 
   22
   - 
   22
     Alternative strategies
   - 
   22
   - 
   22
   Total mutual and exchange-traded funds
  $ 7 
   113
   - 
   120
   Debt securities:
                     U.S. Treasury and fede
ral agencies securities
   3 
   -   - 
   3     Mortgage-backed securities:
                          Agency residential mortgage-backed securities
   - 
   4   - 
   4          Agency commercial mortgage-backed securities
   - 
   7   - 
   7          Non-agency commercia
l mortgage-backed securities
   - 
   2   - 
   2     Asset-backed securities an
d other debt securities
(c)
  - 
   3   - 
   3   Total debt securities
  $ 3 
   16
   - 
   19
   Total plan assets
  $ 66 
   129
   - 
   195
   (a) For further information on fair value hierarchy levels, refer to Note 1.  
(b) Includes holdings in Bancorp common stock. 
(c) Includes corporate bonds. 
The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used 
for instruments measured at fair 
value, as well as the general 
classification of such instrumen
ts pursuant to the valuation 
hierarchy. 
 
Equity securities
 The Plan measures common stock using quoted prices which are 

available in an active market and 
classifies these investments within 
Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. 
 
Mutual and exchange-traded funds 

All of the Plan™s mutual and exchange-traded funds are publicly 

traded. The Plan measures the value of these investments using the 

fund™s quoted prices that are ava
ilable in an active market and 
classifies these investments wi
thin Level 1 of the valuation 
hierarchy. Level 1 securities include money market funds and 
commodity funds. Where quoted prices are not available, the Plan 

measures the fair value of these investments based on the 

redemption price of units held, which is based on the current fair 

value of the fund™s underlying assets. Unit values are determined by 

dividing the fund™s net assets at fair value by its units outstanding at 

the valuation dates to obtain the investment™s net asset value. 

Therefore, investments such as in
ternational funds, domestic funds, 
debt funds and alternative strategies are classified within Level 2 of 
the valuation hierarchy. 

 
Debt securities 
Where quoted prices are available in 
an active market, securities are 
classified within Level 1 of the valu
ation hierarchy. Level 1 securities include U.S. Treasury securities. 
If quoted market prices are not 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  144  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 available, then fair values are esti
mated using pricing models, quoted 
prices of securities with similar 
characteristics, or DCFs. Examples 
of such instruments, which are classified within Level 2 of the 

valuation hierarchy, include fe
deral agency securities, agency 
residential mortgage-backed securities, agency commercial 
mortgage-backed securities, non-agency commercial mortgage-

backed securities and asset-back
ed securities and other debt 
securities. 
      Plan Assumptions 
The Plan™s assumptions are evaluated annually and are updated as 
necessary. The discount rate a
ssumption reflects the yield on a 
portfolio of high quality fixed-
income instruments that have a 
similar duration to the Plan™s liabilities. The expected long-term rate 
of return assumption reflects the 
average return expected on the 
assets invested to provide for th
e Plan™s liabilities. In determining 
the expected long-term rate of
 return, the Bancorp evaluated 
actuarial and economic inputs, incl
uding long-term inflation rate 
assumptions and broad equity an
d bond indices long-term return 
projections, as well as actual long-term historical plan performance. 

In 2015, the Bancorp updated the mortality assumption which 
resulted in a decrease of $3 million to the projected benefit 
obligation.                 The following table summarizes the weighted-average
 plan assumptions for the years ended December 31:
                     2015 
   2014 
 2013  
For measuring benefit obligations at year end: 
                  Discount rate
  4.16 
%    3.82 
   4.72 
    Rate of compensation increase 
N/A(a)    N/A(a)   4.00 
    Expected return on plan assets 
 7.00 
     7.25 
   7.50 
  For measuring net periodic benefit cost: 
               Discount rate
  3.82 
     4.72 
   3.83 
    Rate of compensation increase 
N/A(a)    N/A(a)   4.00 
    Expected return on plan assets 
 7.00 
     7.25 
   7.50 
  (a) Since the Plan™s benefits were frozen, exce
pt for grandfathered employees, the rate of compensation increase is no longer appli
cable beginning in 2014 since minimal grandfathered employees are still 
accruing benefits. 
Lowering both the expected rate of
 return on the plan assets and 
the discount rate by 0.25% would have increased the 2015 pension 

expense by approximately $1 million. 
Based on the actuarial assumptions, the Bancorp expects to 
contribute $3 million to the Plan in 2016. Estimated pension benefit 
payments, which reflect expected future service, are $19 million in 

2016, $18 million in 2017, $17 million in 2018, $16 million in 2019 

and $16 million in 2020. The total es
timated payments for the years 
2021 through 2025 is $79 million. Investment Policies and Strategies 
The Bancorp™s policy for the investment of plan assets is to employ 

investment strategies that achieve a range of weighted-average target 

asset allocations relating to equity s
ecurities (including the Bancorp™s 
common stock), fixed-income securiti
es (including U.S. Treasury 
and federal agencies securities, 
mortgage-backed securities and 
asset-backed securities), alternative
 strategies (including traditional 
mutual funds, precious metals and commodities) and cash.  
              The following table provides the Bancorp™s 
targeted and actual weighted-average asse
t allocations by asset category for the yea
rs ended Decembe
r31:                    Targeted range
(b)
   2015 
 2014 
 Equity securities
       69 
%62 Bancorp common stock
       2   2  Total equity securities
(a)
 60-90
% 71  64  Fixed-income securities
  5-25
  16   20  Alternative strategies
  3-11
  7   12  Cash  0-13
  6   4  Total       100 %100
  (a) Includes mutual and exchange-traded funds. 
(b) These reflect the targeted ranges for 
the year ended December 31, 2015. 
The risk tolerance for the Plan is determined by management to be 
ﬁmoderate to aggressiveﬂ, recognizing that higher returns involve 

some volatility and that periodic dec
lines in the portfolio™s value are 
tolerated in an effort to achieve real capital growth. There were no 
significant concentrations of risk associated with the investments of 
the Plan at December 31, 2015 and 2014. 
Permitted asset classes of the Plan include cash and cash 
equivalents, fixed-income (domes
tic and non-U.S. bonds), equities 
(U.S., non-U.S., emerging markets and REITS), equipment leasing, 

precious metals, commodity transact
ions and mortgages. The Plan 
utilizes derivative instruments in
cluding puts, calls, straddles or 
other option strategies, as approv
ed by management. Per ERISA, 
the Bancorp™s common stock cannot exceed 10% of the fair value 
of plan assets.   
Fifth Third Bank, as Trustee, is expected to manage plan assets 
in a manner consistent with the plan agreement and other 
regulatory, federal and state laws. The Fifth Third Bank Pension, 
Profit Sharing and Medical Plan Committee (the ﬁCommitteeﬂ) is 

the plan administrator. The Trustee is required to provide to the 

Committee monthly and quarterly re
ports covering a list of plan 
assets, portfolio performance, tran
sactions and asset allocation. The 
Trustee is also required to keep
 the Committee apprised of any 
material changes in the Trustee™s outlook and recommended 

investment policy. There were no fees paid by the Plan for 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  145  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 investment management, accounting
 or administrative services 
provided by the Trustee. 
As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, $166 million and $195 
million, respectively, of plan assets were managed by Fifth Third 

Bank, a subsidiary of the Bancorp. 
Plan assets included $4 million of 
Bancorp common stock at both December 31, 2015 and 2014. Plan 
assets are not expected to be retu
rned to the Bancorp during 2016. 
 Other Information on Retirement and Benefit Plans 
The Bancorp has a qualified defined contribution savings plan that 

allows participants to make voluntary 401(k) contributions on a pre-

tax or Roth basis, subject to 
statutory limitations. The Bancorp amended and restated the qualified defined contribution savings 

plan in its entirety, effective as 
of January 1, 2015. Beginning with 
the 2015 plan year, the Bancorp provides a higher company 401(k) 
match contribution. Expenses recognized for matching 

contributions to the Bancorp™
s qualified defined contribution 
savings plan were $71 million, $44 million and $43 million for the 

years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The 

Bancorp did not make a profit sh
aring contribution during the year 
ended December 31, 2015. The Bancorp™s profit sharing plan 

expense was $19 million and $32 million for the years ended 
December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. In addition, the Bancorp 
has a non-qualified defined contribution plan that allows certain 

employees to make voluntary contributions into a deferred 

compensation plan. Expenses recognized by the Bancorp for its 

non-qualified defined contribution plan were $3 million for the year 

ended December 31, 2015 and $2 million for both of the years 

ended December 31, 2014 and 2013. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  146  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 22. ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
The table below presents the activity of the com
ponents of OCI and AOCI for the years ended December 31:
                                 Total Other 
 Total Accumulated Other 
     Comprehensive Income 
 Comprehensive Income 
     Pretax Tax Net 
Beginning 
Net 
Ending ($ in millions) 
Activity 
Effect Activity 
Balance 
Activity 
Balance 
2015 
                         Unrealized holding losses on available-for-sale securities arising  
                          during the year 
$(349)  122   (227)              Reclassification adjustment for net gains on available-for-sale
                            securities included in net income 
(16)  6   (10)              Net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities
 (365)  128   (237)  475 
  (237)  238 
                              Unrealized holding gains on cash flow hedge derivatives arising
                           during the year 
74 
  (26)  48 
              Reclassification adjustment for net gains on cash flow hedge
                           derivatives included in net income 
(75)  26 
  (49)              Net unrealized gains on cash flow hedge derivatives
 (1)  -   (1)  23 
  (1)  22 
                              Net actuarial loss arising during the year
 (9)  4   (5)              Reclassification of amounts to net periodic benefit costs
 17   (6)  11               Defined benefit pension plans, net
 8   (2)  6   (69)  6   (63)  Total $(358)  126   (232)  429 
  (232)  197   2014 
                         Unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale securities arising  
                          during the year 
$580 
  (202)
  378 
              Reclassification adjustment for net gains on available-for-sale 
                          securities included in net income 
(37)
  13 
  (24)
              Net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities 
543 
  (189)
  354 
  121 
  354
  475 
                              Unrealized holding gains on cash flow hedge derivatives arising 
                          during the year 
60 
  (21)
39 
          Reclassification adjustment for net gains on cash flow hedge 
                          derivatives included in net income 
(44)
  15 
  (29)
              Net unrealized gains on cash
 flow hedge derivatives 
16 
  (6)
  10 
  13 
  10  23 
                              Net actuarial loss arising during the year 
(37)
  12 
  (25)
        Reclassification of amounts to net periodic benefit costs 
12 
  (4)
  8         Defined benefit pension plans, net 
(25)
  8   (17)
  (52)
  (17)
  (69)
  Total 
$534 
  (187)
  347 
  82 
  347
  429 
  2013 
                         Unrealized holding losses on available-for-sale securities arising  
                          during the year 
$(454)
  159 
  (295)
              Reclassification adjustment for net losses on available-for-sale 
                          securities included in net income 
6   (2)
  4               Net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities 
(448)
  157 
  (291)
  412 
  (291)
  121 
                              Unrealized holding losses on cash flow hedge derivatives arising 
                          during the year 
(13)
  5 (8)
          Reclassification adjustment for net gains on cash flow hedge 
                          derivatives included in net income 
(44)
  15 
  (29)
              Net unrealized gains on cash
 flow hedge derivatives 
(57)
  20 
  (37)
  50 
  (37)
  13 
                              Net actuarial gain arising during the year 
38 
  (13)
  25 
        Reclassification of amounts to net periodic benefit costs 
16 
  (6)
  10 
        Defined benefit pension plans, net 
54 
  (19)
  35 
  (87)
  35  (52)
  Total 
$(451)
  158 
  (293)
  375 
  (293)
  82 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  147  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The table below presents reclassifications out of AOCI for the years ended December 31:
                         Consolidated Statements of
          Components of AOCI: ($ in millions)
    Income Caption
    2015 
 2014 
 2013  
Net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities:
(b)
                Net gains (losses) included in net income
    Securities gains, net
  $  16 
 37 
 (6)
       Income before income taxes     16 
 37 
 (6)
       Applicable income tax expense
     (6)
 (13)
 2       Net income
     10 
 24 
 (4)
                  Net unrealized gains on cash flow hedge derivatives:
(b)
                Interest rate contracts related to C&I loans
    Interest and fees on loans and leases 
     75 
 44 
 45
  Interest rate contracts related to long-term debt
    Interest on long-term debt 
     - 
 - 
 (1)
       Income before income taxes     75 
 44 
 44
       Applicable income tax expense
     (26)
 (15)
 (15)
       Net income
     49 
 29 
 29
                  Net periodic benefit costs:
(b)                Amortization of net actuarial loss
    Employee benefits expense(a)
    (10)
 (7)
 (11)
  Settlements
    Employee benefits expense(a)
    (7)
 (5)
 (5)
       Income before income taxes     (17)
 (12)
 (16)
       Applicable income tax expense
     6 
 4 
 6       Net income
     (11)
 (8)
 (10)
                  Total reclassifications for the period
    Net income
  $  48 
 45 
 15
(a) This AOCI component is included in the computation of net period
ic benefit cost. Refer to Note 21 for information on the comput
ation of net periodic benefit cost. 
(b) Amounts in parentheses indicate
 reductions to net income. 
 23. COMMON, PREFERRED AND TREASURY STOCK
   The table presents a summary of the share activity within 
common, preferred and treasury stock for the years ended: 
         Common Stock  
 Preferred Stock  
  Treasury Stock  
($ in millions, except share data)  
Value 
Shares Value 
Shares  Value 
Shares December 31, 2012 
$ 2,051 
 923,892,581 
$ 398 
 16,450 
$ (634)
 41,740,524 
Shares acquired for treasury  
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
   (1,242)
 65,516,126 
Issuance of preferred shares, Series I 
 - 
 - 
 441 
 18,000 
   - 
 - 
Issuance of preferred shares, Series H 
 - 
 - 
 593 
 24,000 
   - 
 - 
Redemption of preferred shares, Series G 
 - 
 - 
 (398)
 (16,450)
   540 
 (35,529,018)
Impact of stock transactions under stock compensation plans, net 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
   38 
 (3,697,042)
Other   - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
   3 
 556,246 
December 31, 2013 
$ 2,051 
 923,892,581 
$ 1,034 
 42,000 
$ (1,295)
 68,586,836 
Shares acquired for treasury  
 - 
 - 
  - 
 - 
   (726)
 34,799,873 
Issuance of preferred shares, Series J 
 - 
 - 
  297 
 12,000 
   - 
 - 
Impact of stock transactions under stock compensation plans, net 
  - 
 - 
  - 
 - 
   47 
 (3,493,671)
Other   - 
 - 
  - 
 - 
   2 
 (47,409)
December 31, 2014 
$ 2,051 
 923,892,581 
$ 1,331 
 54,000 
$ (1,972)
 99,845,629 
Shares acquired for treasury  
 - 
 - 
  - 
 - 
   (847)
 42,607,855 
Impact of stock transactions under stock compensation plans, net
  - 
 - 
  - 
 - 
   52 
 (3,593,406)
Other   - 
 - 
  - 
 - 
   3 
 (47,811)
December 31, 2015 
$ 2,051 
 923,892,581 
$ 1,331 
 54,000 
$ (2,764)
 138,812,267 
      Preferred StockŠSeries J 
On June 5, 2014, the Bancorp issued, in a registered public offering, 
300,000 depositary shares, represen
ting 12,000 shares of 4.90% 
fixed to floating-rate non-cumulativ
e Series J perpetual preferred 
stock, for net proceeds of $297 million. Each preferred share has a 
$25,000 liquidation preference. The preferred stock accrues 
dividends, on a non-cumulative semi-a
nnual basis, at an annual rate 
of 4.90% through but excluding September 30, 2019, at which time 

it converts to a quarterly floati
ng-rate dividend of three-month 
LIBOR plus 3.129%. Subject to any required regulatory approval, 

the Bancorp may redeem the Series J preferred shares at its option, 

in whole or in part, at any time on or after September 30, 2019, or 
any time prior following a regulatory capital event. The Series J 
preferred shares are not convertible into Bancorp common shares 

or any other securities.
  Preferred StockŠSeries I 
On December 9, 2013, the Bancorp issued, in a registered public 

offering, 18,000,000 depositary shares
, representing 18,000 shares of 
6.625% fixed to floating-rate non-
cumulative Series I perpetual 
preferred stock, for net proceeds of $441 million. Each preferred 

share has a $25,000 liquidation preference. The preferred stock 

accrues dividends, on a non-cumulativ
e quarterly basis, at an annual 
rate of 6.625% through but excl
uding December 31, 2023, at which 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  148  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 time it converts to a quarterly floating-rate dividend of three-month 
LIBOR plus 3.71%. Subject to any required regulatory approval, the 

Bancorp may redeem the Series I preferred shares at its option in 

whole or in part, at any time on or after December 31, 2023 and 
may redeem in whole but not in pa
rt, following a regulatory capital 
event at any time prior to December 31, 2023. The Series I 

preferred shares are not convertible into Bancorp common shares 

or any other securities. 
 Preferred StockŠSeries H 
On May 16, 2013, the Bancorp issued, in a registered public 

offering, 600,000 depositary shares, representing 24,000 shares of 
5.10% fixed to floating-rate non-
cumulative Series H perpetual 
preferred stock, for net proceeds of $593 million. Each preferred 

share has a $25,000 liquidation preference. The preferred stock 

accrues dividends, on a non-cumula
tive semi-annual basis, at an 
annual rate of 5.10% through but excluding June 30, 2023, at which 

time it converts to a quarterly floating-rate dividend of three-month 

LIBOR plus 3.033%. Subject to any required regulatory approval, 

the Bancorp may redeem the Series H preferred shares at its option 
in whole or in part, at any time on or after June 30, 2023 and may 
redeem in whole but not in part, fo
llowing a regulatory capital event 
at any time prior to June 30, 2023. The Series H preferred shares are 

not convertible into Bancorp common shares or any other 

securities.  Preferred StockŠSeries G  
In 2008, the Bancorp issued 8.
50% non-cumulative Series G 
convertible preferred stock. The depositary shares represented 
1/250th of a share of Series G conv
ertible preferred stock and had a 
liquidation preference of $25,000 per preferred share of Series G 

stock. The preferred stock was convertible at any time, at the option 

of the shareholder, into 2,159.8272 shares of common stock, 

representing a conversion price of approximately $11.575 per share 

of common stock.  
On June 11, 2013, pursuant to the Amended Articles of 
Incorporation, the Bancorp™s Board of Directors authorized the 
conversion into common stock, no 
par value, of all outstanding 
shares of the Bancorp™s Series G perpetual preferred stock. The 

Articles grant the Bancorp the righ
t, at its option, to convert all 
outstanding shares of Series G preferred stock if the closing price of 

common stock exceeded 130% of the applicable conversion price 

for 20 trading days within any peri
od of 30 consecutive trading days. 
The closing price of shares of common stock satisfied such 
threshold for the 30 trading days
 ended June 10, 2013, and the 
Bancorp gave the required notice of its exercise of its conversion 

right. On July 1, 2013, the Bancorp converted the remaining 16,442 
outstanding shares of Series G preferred stock, which represented 

4,110,500 depositary shares, into shares of the Bancorp™s common 

stock. Each share of Series G preferred stock was converted into 

2,159.8272 shares of common stock,
 representing a total of 
35,511,740 issued shares. The common shares issued in the 
conversion are exempt securities pu
rsuant to Section 3(a)(9) of the 
Securities Act of 1933, as amended, 
as the securities exchanged were 
exclusively with the Bancorp™s exis
ting security holders where no 
commission or other remuneration 
was paid. Upon conversion, the 
depositary shares were delisted from the NASDAQ Global Select 
Market and withdrawn from the Exchange. 
 Treasury Stock On March 14, 2013, the Bancorp announced the results of its capital plan submitted to the FRB as part of the 2013 CCAR. The FRB 

indicated to the Bancorp that it
 did not object to the potential 
repurchase of common shares in an amount up to $984 million, 
including any shares issued in a Series G preferred stock conversion 
and the repurchase of common shares in an amount equal to any 

after-tax gains realized by the Bancorp from the sale of Vantiv, Inc. 

common stock. On March 19, 2013, the Board of Directors 

authorized the Bancorp to repurchase up to 100 million common 

shares in the open market or in pr
ivately negotiated transactions and 
to utilize any derivative or similar instrument to effect share 

repurchase transactions. This 
share repurchase authorization 
replaced the Board™s previous au
thorization from August of 2012. On March 18, 2014, the Board of Directors authorized the 
Bancorp to repurchase up to 100 million common shares in the 

open market or in privately negotiated transactions and to utilize 

any derivative or similar instrument to effect share repurchase 

transactions. This share repurchase authorization replaced the 

Board™s previous authorization from March of 2013. 
On March 26, 2014, the Bancorp 
announced the results of its 
capital plan submitted to the FRB as part of the 2014 CCAR. The 
FRB indicated to the Bancorp that it did not object to the potential 

repurchase of $669 million of common shares with the additional 

ability to repurchase common shares
 in an amount equal to any 
after-tax gains realized by the Bancorp from the sale of Vantiv, Inc. 

common stock for the period beginning April 1, 2014 and ending 

March 31, 2015. On March 11, 2015, the Bancorp 
announced the results of its 
capital plan submitted to the FRB as part of the 2015 CCAR. The 
FRB indicated to the Bancorp that it did not object to the potential 

repurchase of $765 million of common shares with the additional 

ability to repurchase common shares
 in an amount equal to any 
after-tax gains realized by the Bancorp from the sale of Vantiv, Inc. 

common stock for the period beginning April 1, 2015 and ending 

June 30, 2016.    
The Bancorp entered into a number of accelerated share 
repurchase transactions during the years ended December 31, 2014 
and 2015. As part of these transactions, the Bancorp entered into 

forward contracts in which the fin
al number of shares delivered at 
settlement was based generally on a discount to the average daily 

volume weighted-average price of the Bancorp™s common stock 

during the term of these repurchase agreements. The accelerated 

share repurchases were treated as 
two separate transactions: (i) the 
acquisition of treasury shares on the acquisition date and (ii) a 
forward contract indexed to the Bancorp™s common stock. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  149  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following table presents a summary of the Bancorp's accelerated
 share repurchase transactions that were entered into or set
tled during the 
years ended December 31, 2014 and 2015.
         Shares Repurchased on 
Repurchase Date
Shares Received from Forward 
Contract Settlement 
Total Shares 
Repurchased 
 Repurchase Date
    Amount ($ in millions) 
Settlement Date 
November 18, 2013 
    200 
 8,538,423 
 1,132,495 
 9,670,918 
March 5, 2014
December 13, 2013 
    456 
 19,084,195 
 2,294,932 
 21,379,127 
March 31, 2014
January 31, 2014 
    99 
 3,950,705 
 602,109 
 4,552,814 
March 31, 2014
May 1, 2014 
    150 
 6,216,480 
 1,016,514 
 7,232,994 
July 21, 2014
July 24, 2014 
    225 
 9,352,078 
 1,896,685 
 11,248,763 
October 14, 2014
October 23, 2014 
    180 
 8,337,875 
 794,245 
 9,132,120 
January 8, 2015
January 27, 2015 
    180 
 8,542,713 
 1,103,744 
 9,646,457 
April 28, 2015
April 30, 2015 
    155 
 6,704,835 
 842,655 
 7,547,490 
July 31, 2015
August 3, 2015 
    150 
 6,039,792 
 1,346,314 
 7,386,106 
September 3, 2015
September 9, 2015 
    150 
 6,538,462 
 1,446,613 
 7,985,075 
October 23, 2015
December 14, 2015 
    215 
 9,248,482 
 1,782,477 
 11,030,959 
January 14, 2016
24. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION 
The Bancorp has historically emphasized employee stock 
ownership. The following table pr
ovides detail of the number of 
shares to be issued upon exercise 
of outstanding stock-based awards 
and remaining shares available for 
future issuance under all of the 
Bancorp™s equity compensation plans approved by shareholders as 

of December 31, 2015: 
             Plan Category (shares in thousands) 
  Number of Shares to be 
Issued Upon Exercise
   Weighted-Average 
Exercise Price Per Share
Shares Available for 
Future Issuance 
Equity compensation plans approved by shareholders
           24,667 
(a)
   SARs  (b)
N/A(a) 
  RSAs   8,281 
  N/A(a) 
  RSUs
   371 
  N/A(a) 
  Stock options
(c)  7 
  $32.26
  (a) 
  Phantom stock units
  (d)
N/AN/A    PSAs  (e)N/A(a) 
  Employee stock purchase plan
           6,813 
(f) Total shares 
   8,659 
       31,480 
  (a) Under the 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan, 36 million shares were 
authorized for issuance as S
ARs, RSAs, RSUs, stock options, 
performance share or unit awards, dividend or dividend 
equivalent rights and stock awards. 
(b) The number of shares to be issued upon exercise will be determin
ed at exercise based on the difference between the grant price 
and the market price on the date of 
exercise and the calculation of taxes 
owed on the exercise. 
(c) Excludes 0.1 million outstanding options awarded under plans assu
med by the Bancorp in connection with certain mergers and acqu
isitions. The Bancorp has not made any awards under these plans 
and will make no additional awards under these plans. The weight
ed-average exercise price of the outstanding options is $13.89 
per share.  
 (d) Phantom stock units are settled in cash. 
(e) The number of shares to be issued is dependent upon the Bancor
p achieving certain predefined performance targets and ranges fro
m zero shares to approximately 1 million shares. 
(f) Represents remaining shares of Fifth Third common stock under the 
Bancorp™s 1993 Stock Purchase Pl
an, as amended and restated, 
including an additional 1.5 million shares approved by 
shareholders on March 28, 2007 and an additional 12 mi
llion shares approved by shareholders on April 21, 2009. 
Stock-based awards are eligible for issuance under the Bancorp™s 
Incentive Compensation Plan to executives, directors and key 
employees of the Bancorp and its subsidiaries. The Incentive 

Compensation Plan was approved by shareholders on April 15, 

2014 and authorized the issuance 
of up to 36 million shares, 
including 16 million shares for Full Value Awards, as equity 

compensation and provides for SARs, RSAs, RSUs, stock options, 

performance share or unit awards, dividend or dividend equivalent 

rights and stock awards. Full Valu
e Awards are defined as awards 
with no cash outlay for the emplo
yee to obtain the full value. Based 
on total stock-based awards outstanding (including SARs, RSAs, 

RSUs, stock options and PSAs) an
d shares remaining for future 
grants under the 2014 Incentive Co
mpensation Plan, the potential 
dilution to which the Bancorp™s shareholders of common stock are 

exposed due to the potential that 
stock-based compensation will be 
awarded to executives, directors or key employees of the Bancorp 

and its subsidiaries is 10%. SARs, RSAs, RSUs, stock options and 
PSAs outstanding represent 7% of the Bancorp™s issued shares at 
December 31, 2015. 
All of the Bancorp™s stock-based awards are to be settled with 
stock. The Bancorp has historically used treasury stock to settle 
stock-based awards, when available. SARs, issued at fair value based 
on the closing price of the Bancorp™s common stock on the date of 
grant, have up to ten year term
s and vest and become exercisable 
either ratably or fully over a four year period of continued 

employment. The Bancorp does not grant discounted SARs or stock 

options, re-price previously granted SARs or stock options or grant 

reload stock options. RSAs and RSUs vest after four years or ratably 

over three or four years of cont
inued employment.  RSAs include 
dividend and voting rights. Stock opt
ions were previously issued at 
fair value based on the closing price of the Bancorp™s common 
stock on the date of grant, had up to ten year terms and vested and 

became fully exercisable ratably over
 a three or four year period of 
continued employment. PSAs have three year cliff vesting terms 

with market conditions and/or performance conditions as defined 

by the plan. All of the Bancorp™s executive stock-based awards 

contain an annual performance hurdle of 2% return on tangible 

common equity. If this threshold is not met, all PSAs that would 
vest in the next year are forfeited and all SARs and RSAs that would 
vest in the next year may also be forfeited at the discretion of the 

Human Capital and Compensation Committee of the Board of 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  150  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Directors. The Bancorp met this threshold as of December 31, 
2015.  Stock-based compensation expense was $100 million, $83 
million and $78 million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 
2014 and 2013, respectively, and is 
included in salaries, wages and 
incentives in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The total 

related income tax benefit recogniz
ed was $36 million, $30 million 
and $28 million for the years 
ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 
2013, respectively.  
 Stock Appreciation Rights 
The Bancorp uses assumptions, which are evaluated and revised as 

necessary, in estimating the grant-date fair value of each SAR grant.
  The weighted-average assumptions were as follows for the years ended December 31: 
                  2015 
 2014 
 2013  
Expected life (in years)  
6   6   6   Expected volatility  
35 
%35 
  36 
  Expected dividend yield  
2.7 
  2.4  3.0  Risk-free interest rate 
1.6   2.0  1.0     The expected life is generally derived from historical exercise 
patterns and represents the amount
 of time that SARs granted are 
expected to be outstanding. The expected volatility is based on a 

combination of historical and implied volatilities of the Bancorp™s 
common stock. The expected dividend yield is based on annual 
dividends divided by the Bancorp™
s stock price. Annual dividends 
are based on projected dividends, estimated using an expected long-

term dividend payout ratio, over the estimated life of the awards. 

The risk-free interest rate for peri
ods within the contractual life of 
the SARs is based on the U.S. Treasu
ry yield curve in effect at the 
time of grant.   
The grant-date fair value of SARs is measured using the Black-
Scholes option-pricing model.
 The weighted-average grant-date fair 
value of SARs granted was $5.52, $6.53 and $4.56 per share for the 

years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The 

total grant-date fair value of SARs that vested during the years 
ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $35 million, $34 
million and $29 million, respectively. 
At December 31, 2015, there was $45 million of stock-based 
compensation expense related to nonvested SARs not yet 

recognized. The expense is expect
ed to be recognized over an 
estimated remaining weighted-average period at December 31, 2015 

of 2.4 years.         2015 
 2014 
 2013  
     Weighted- 
   Weighted- 
   Weighted- 
  Number of 
SARs 
Average Grant
Number of 
SARs 
Average Grant 
Number of 
SARs 
Average Grant
SARs (in thousands, except per share data) 
Price Per Share
Price Per Share 
Price Per Share
Outstanding at January 1 
 45,590 
$19.79    48,599 
$19.98 
   44,120 
$20.41
  Granted 
 5,219 
18.99  4,526 
21.63 
 10,267 
16.16
Exercised 
 (3,242)
13.59  (4,408)
13.63 
 (2,904)
11.18
Forfeited or expired 
 (3,438)
32.96 
 (3,127)
34.19 
 (2,884)
21.78
Outstanding at December 31 
 44,129 
$19.14  45,590 
$19.79 
 48,599 
$19.98
Exercisable at December 31 
 29,721 
$19.71 
 27,950 
$21.71 
 26,462 
$24.14
  The following table summarizes outstand
ing and exercisable SARs by grant price per share at December 31, 2015:
                               Outstanding SARs  
 Exercisable SARs 
        Weighted- 
        Weighted- 
       Average 
      Average 
    Weighted- 
Remaining 
   Weighted- 
Remaining 
  Number of 
Average Grant
Contractual Life
 Number of 
Average Grant
Contractual Life
SARs (in thousands, except per share data) 
SARs 
Price Per Share
(in years) 
 SARs 
Price Per Share
(in years) 
Under $10.00 
 2,943 
$ 3.98
   3.3 
     2,943 
$3.98 
   3.3
  $10.01-$20.00 
 30,488 
 15.99
   6.3 
     19,074 
15.37 
   5.3
  $20.01-$30.00 
 4,047 
 21.64
   8.2 
     1,053 
21.66 
   8.1
  $30.01-$40.00 
 6,069 
 38.66
 0.8 
 6,069 
38.66 
 0.8
Over $40.00
  582 
 40.11
 1.3 
 582 
40.11 
 1.3
All SARs 
  44,129 
$ 19.14
 5.5 
 29,721 
$19.71 
 4.2
    Restricted Stock Awards  
The total grant-date fair value of 
RSAs that vested during the years 
ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 was $43 million, $32 
million and $40 million, respectively. At December 31, 2015, there 
was $101 million of stock-based compensation expense related to 
nonvested RSAs not yet recognized. The expense is expected to be 
recognized over an estimated rem
aining weighted-average period at 
December 31, 2015 of 2.7 years. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  151  Fifth Third Bancorp 
   2015 
 2014 
 2013  
     Weighted-Average
   Weighted-Average
    Weighted-Average
     Grant-Date 
   Grant-Date 
   Grant-Date 
     Fair Value 
   Fair Value 
   Fair Value 
RSAs (in thousands, except per share data) 
Shares Per Share 
Shares Per Share 
Shares Per Share 
Nonvested at January 1 
 7,253 
$17.98    6,710 
$15.11 
   6,379 
$14.32 
  Granted 
 4,250 
19.11  3,264 
21.61 
 3,583 
16.21 
Exercised 
 (2,580)
16.86  (2,183)
14.84 
 (2,720)
14.71 
Forfeited  (642)
18.64  (538)
16.73 
 (532)
14.97 
Nonvested at December 31 
 8,281 
$18.88  7,253 
$17.98 
 6,710 
$15.11 
  The following table summarizes nonvested RSAs 
by grant-date fair value at December 31, 2015:            Nonvested RSAs 
    Weighted-Average 
    Remaining 
    Contractual Life 
RSAs (in thousands) 
Shares (in years) 
$10.01-$15.00 
 690 
 0.3
  $15.01-$20.00 
 5,153 
 1.6
  $20.01-$25.00 
 2,438 
 1.4
  All RSAs 
 8,281 
   1.4
    Restricted Stock Units  
The total grant-date fair value of RSUs that vested during the year 
ended December 31, 2015 was $2 million. At December 31, 2015, 
there was $4 million of stock-based compensation expense related 
to nonvested RSUs not yet recognized. The expense is expected to 
be recognized over an estimated remaining weighted-average period 

at December 31, 2015 of 2.9 years.         2015 
           Weighted-Average
          Grant-Date 
          Fair Value 
RSUs (in thousands, except per share data) 
    Shares Per Share 
Nonvested at January 1 
     - 
$N/A  Granted
  377 
19.58 
Released
  (5)
21.63 
Forfeited  (1)
19.46 
Nonvested at December 31
  371 
$19.56 
  The following table summarizes nonvested RSUs 
by grant-date fair value at December 31, 2015:            Nonvested RSUs 
    Weighted-Average 
    Remaining 
    Contractual Life 
RSUs (in thousands) 
Shares (in years) 
$15.01-$20.00 
 318 
 1.8
  $20.01-$25.00 
 53 
 -  All RSUs 
 371 
   1.6
    Stock Options 
The grant-date fair value of stock options is measured using the 
Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
 There were no stock options 
granted during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.  
The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised was $1 
million for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, 

respectively. Cash received from 
stock options exercised was $2 
million, $1 million and $2 million for the years ended December 31, 
2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The tax benefit realized from 
exercised stock options was immaterial to the Bancorp™s 

Consolidated Financial Statements during the years ended 

December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013. All stock options were vested 
as of December 31, 2008, therefore, 
no stock options vested during 
the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 or 2013. As of December 

31, 2015, the aggregate intrinsic value of both outstanding stock 

options and exercisable stock options was $1 million. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  152  Fifth Third Bancorp 
   2015 
 2014 
 2013  
     Weighted-Average
   Weighted-Average
    Weighted-Average
  Number of 
Exercise Price 
Number of 
Exercise Price 
Number of 
Exercise Price 
Stock Options (in thousands, except per share data) 
Options 
Per Share 
Options 
Per Share 
Options 
Per Share 
Outstanding at January 1 
 265 
$14.25    546 
$20.72 
   3,877 
$45.00 
  Exercised 
 (126)
13.67  (115)
12.84 
 (190)
11.88 
Forfeited or expired 
 (20)
13.59  (166)
36.42 
 (3,141)
51.23 
Outstanding at December 31 
 119 
$14.97  265 
$14.25 
 546 
$20.72 
Exercisable at December 31 
 119 
$14.97  265 
$14.25 
 546 
$20.72 
  The following table summarizes outstandin
g and exercisable stock options by exer
cise price per share at December 31, 2015:
                Outstanding and Exercisable Stock Options 
  Number of Options 
   Weighted-Average
  Weighted-Average
Remaining 
  Exercise Price 
Contractual Life 
Stock Options (in thousands, except per share data) 
Per Share 
(in years) 
Under $10.00 
 1 
$ 8.59 
   3.0
  $10.01-$20.00 
 112 
 13.89 
   0.8
  $20.01-$30.00 
 1 
 24.41 
   2.0
  $30.01-$40.00 
 - 
 - 
 -Over $40.00
  5 
 40.98 
 1.0
All stock options
  119 
$ 14.97 
 0.8
  Other Stock-Based Compensation  
The Bancorp™s Board of Directors previously approved the use of 
phantom stock units as part of 
its compensation for executives in 
connection with changes made in response to the TARP 

compensation rules. On February
 22, 2011, the Bancorp redeemed 
its Series F preferred stock held by the U.S. Treasury under the 

CPP. As a result of this redemption, the last payment of phantom 
stock occurred in April 2011. The 
phantom stock units were issued 
under the Bancorp™s 2008 Incentive Compensation Plan. The 

number of phantom stock units was determined each pay period by 

dividing the amount of salary to be paid in phantom stock units for 

that pay period by the reported closing price of the Bancorp™s 

common stock on the pay date for such pay period. The phantom 

stock units vested immediately upon issuance. Phantom stock was 

expensed based on the number of outstanding units multiplied by 
the closing price of the Bancorp™s stock at period end. The phantom 
stock units did not include any rights to receive dividends or 

dividend equivalents. Phantom stock units issued on or before June 

12, 2010 were settled in cash upon the earlier to occur of June 15, 

2011 or the executive™s death. Units issued thereafter were settled in 

cash with 50% settled on June 15, 2012 and 50% settled on June 15, 

2013. The amount paid on settlement of the phantom stock units 

was equal to the total amount of phantom stock units settled at the 
reported closing price of the Bancorp™s common stock on the 
settlement date. Under the phantom stock program, no phantom 

stock units were granted during the years ended December 31, 2015, 

2014 and 2013. No phantom stock units were settled during both 

the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 and 200,130 phantom 

stock units were settled during the year ended December 31, 2013. 
PSAs are payable contingent upon the Bancorp achieving 
certain predefined performance targets over the three-year 
measurement period. Awards granted during the years ended 
December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 will be 
entirely settled in stock. 
The performance targets are based on the Bancorp™s performance 

relative to a defined peer group.
 During the years ended December 
31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, 458,
355, 322,567 and 348,595 PSAs, 
respectively, were granted by the Bancorp. These awards were 

granted at a weighted-average grant-
date fair value of $19.48, $15.61 
and $16.15 per unit during the years ended December 31, 2015, 
2014 and 2013, respectively.  
The Bancorp sponsors an employee stock purchase plan that 
allows qualifying employees to purchase shares of the Bancorp™s 

common stock with a 15% match. During the years ended 

December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013,
 there were 617,829, 599,101 
and 690,039 shares, respectively, purc
hased by participants and the 
Bancorp recognized stock-based compensation expense of $1 

million in each of the respective years.
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  153  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 25. OTHER NONINTEREST INCOME AND OTHER NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 The following table presents the major components of other noninterest income and other noninterest expense for the years ended
 December 31:
          ($ in millions)
   2015 
  2014 
  2013  
Other noninterest income:  
           Gain on sale of Vantiv, Inc. shares 
$  331 
 125 
 327 
    Valuation ad
justments on the warrant associated with sale of Vantiv Holding, LLC  
   236 
 31 
 206 
    Gain on sale and exercise of the warrant
 associated with Vantiv Holding, LLC 
   89 
 - 
 - 
    Operating lease income 
   89 
 84 
 75 
    Income from the TRA associated with Vantiv, Inc. 
   80 
 23 
 9 
    Equity method income from interest in Vantiv Holding, LLC 
   63 
 48 
 77 
    BOLI income 
   48 
 44 
 52 
    Cardholder fees
    43 
 45 
 47 
    Gain on loan sales
    38 
 - 
 3 
    Private equity investment income 
   28 
 27 
 24 
    Consumer loan and lease fees 
   23 
 25 
 27 
    Banking center income 
   21 
 30 
 34 
    Insurance income    14 
 13 
 25 
    Net losses on disposition and impairment of bank premises and equipment 
   (101)
 (19)
 (6)
    Loss on swap associated with the sa
le of Visa, Inc. Class B shares 
   (37)
 (38)
 (31)
    Other, net 
   14 
 12 
 10 
  Total other noninterest income 
$  979 
 450 
 879 
  Other noninterest expense:  
      Impairment on affordable housing investments  
$  145 
 135 
 108 
    Loan and lease 
   118 
 119 
 158 
    Marketing 
   110 
 98 
 114 
    FDIC insurance and other taxes 
   99 
 89 
 127 
    Operating lease 
   74 
 67 
 57 
    Professional services fees 
   70 
 72 
 76 
    Losses and adjustments 
   55 
 188 
 221 
    Travel 
   54 
 52 
 54 
    Postal and courier 
   45 
 47 
 48 
    Data processing 
   45 
 41 
 42 
    Recruitment and education 
   33 
 28 
 26 
    Donations 
   29 
 18 
 24 
    Insurance    17 
 16 
 17 
    Supplies 
   16 
 15 
 16 
    Provision for (benefit from) the re
serve for unfunded commitments  
   4 
 (27)
 (17)
    Other, net 
   191 
 181 
 193 
  Total other noninterest expense 
$  1,105 
 1,139 
 1,264 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  154  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 26.  EARNINGS PER SHARE 
The following table provides the calculation of earnings per sh
are and the reconciliation of earn
ings per share and earnings pe
r diluted share for the years ended December 31:
               2015 
  2014 
   2013 
       Average Per Share   Average Per Share 
    Average Per Share($ in millions, except per share data) 
  Income 
Shares  Amount
 Income 
Shares  Amount 
  Income 
Shares  Amount
Earnings per Share:
                           Net income attributable to Bancorp 
$ 1,712 
     $ 1,481 
     $ 1,836 
     Dividends on preferred stock 
   75 
       67 
        37 
     Net income available to common shareholders 
   1,637 
       1,414 
        1,799 
     Less: Income allocated to participating securities 
   15 
       12 
        14 
     Net income allocated to
 common shareholders 
$ 1,622 
 799 
$ 2.03 
$ 1,402 
 833 
$ 1.68 
$ 1,785 
 869 
$ 2.05 
Earnings per Diluted Share:
                           Net income available to common shareholders 
$ 1,637 
     $ 1,414 
     $ 1,799 
     Effect of dilutive securities: 
                              Stock-based awards 
   - 
 9 
     - 
 10 
      - 
 8 
       Series G convertible preferred stock 
   - 
 - 
     - 
 - 
      18 
 18 
   Net income available to common shareholders 
   1,637 
       1,414 
        1,817 
         plus assumed conversions 
                          Less: Income allocated to participating securities 
   15 
       12 
        14 
     Net income allocated to
 common shareholders 
                              plus assumed conversions 
$ 1,622 
 808 
$2.01 
$ 1,402 
843 
$1.66 
$ 1,803 
895 
$2.02 
                            Shares are excluded from the computation of net income per diluted 
share when their inclusion has an an
ti-dilutive effect on earnings per 
share. The diluted earnings per 
share computation for the years 
ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2
013 excludes 16 million, 13 
million and 24 million, respectively, of SARs and an immaterial 

amount for both the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 and 

1 million for the year ended December 31, 2013, of stock options 
because their inclusion would 
have been anti-dilutive.  
The diluted earnings per share computation for the year ended 
December 31, 2015 excludes the impact of the forward contract 

related to the December 14, 2015 accelerated share repurchase 

transaction. Based upon the averag
e daily volume weighted-average 
price of the Bancorp™s common stock during the fourth quarter of 

2015, the counterparty to the transa
ction would have been required 
to deliver additional shares fo
r the settlement of the forward 
contract as of December 31, 2015, and thus the impact of the 
forward contract related to the accelerated share repurchase 

transaction would have been anti-d
ilutive to earnings per share.  
The diluted earnings per share computation for the year ended 
December 31, 2014 excludes the impact of the forward contract 

related to the October 23, 2014 accelerated share repurchase 

transaction. Based upon the averag
e daily volume weighted-average 
price of the Bancorp™s common stock during the fourth quarter of 
2014, the counterparty to the transa
ction would have been required 
to deliver additional shares fo
r the settlement of the forward 
contract as of December 31, 2014, and thus the impact of the 

forward contract related to the accelerated share repurchase 

transaction would have been anti-d
ilutive to earnings per share.  
The diluted earnings per share computation for the year ended 
December 31, 2013 excludes the impact of the forward contracts 

related to the November 18, 2013 and December 13, 2013 
accelerated share repurchase tran
sactions. Based upon the average 
daily volume weighted-average price of the Bancorp™s common 

stock during the fourth quarter 
of 2013, the counterparty to the 
transactions would have been requi
red to deliver additional shares 
for the settlement of the forward contracts as of December 31, 

2013, and thus the impact of the forward contracts related to the 

two accelerated share repurchase tr
ansactions would have been anti-
dilutive to earnings per share. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  155  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 27. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS The Bancorp measures certain fina
ncial assets and liabilities at fair 
value in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which defines fair value as the 

price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a 

liability in an orderly transaction be
tween market participants at the 
measurement date. U.S. GAAP als
o establishes a fair value 
hierarchy, which prioritizes the i
nputs to valuation techniques used 
to measure fair value into three broad levels. For more information 

regarding the fair value hierarchy and how the Bancorp measures 

fair value, refer to Note 1.   
             Assets and Liabilities Measured at
 Fair Value on a Recurring Basi
s The following tables summarize assets and liabilities measured at
 fair value on a recurring basis, including residential mortga
ge loans held for sale 
for which the Bancorp has elected the fair value option as of:
                   Fair Value Measurements Using
   December 31, 2015 ($ in millions)
    Level 1
(c) Level 2
(c) 
Level 3
 Total Fair Value 
Assets:          Available-for-sale and other securities:
         U.S. Treasury and federal agencies securities
  $ 100 
 1,087 
 - 
 1,187
     Obligations of states and political subdivisions securities
     - 
 52 
 - 
 52
     Mortgage-backed securities:
              Agency residential mortgage-backed securities
     - 
 15,081 
 - 
 15,081
          Agency comme
rcial mortgage-backed securities
     - 
 7,862 
 - 
 7,862
          Non-agency co
mmercial mortgage-backed securities
     - 
 2,804 
 - 
 2,804
     Asset-backed securities and other debt securities
     - 
 1,355 
 - 
 1,355
     Equity securities
(a)    98 
 1 
 - 
 99
   Available-for-sale and other securities
(a)
    198 
 28,242 
 - 
 28,440
        Trading securities:
         U.S. Treasury and federal agencies securities
     - 
 19 
 - 
 19
     Obligations of states and political subdivisions securities
     - 
 9 
 - 
 9     Mortgage-backed securities:
              Agency residential mortgage-backed securities
     - 
 6 
 - 
 6     Asset-backed securities and other debt securities
     - 
 19 
 - 
 19
     Equity securities
     333 
 - 
 - 
 333
   Trading securities
     333 
 53 
 - 
 386
        Residential mortgage loans held for sale
     - 
 519 
 - 
 519
   Residential mortgage loans
(b)
    - 
 - 
 167 
 167
   Derivative assets:
         Interest rate contracts
     3 
 892 
 15 
 910
     Foreign exchange contracts
     - 
 386 
 - 
 386
     Equity contracts
     - 
 - 
 262 
 262
     Commodity contracts
     54 
 240 
 - 
 294
   Derivative assets
(d)    57 
 1,518 
 277 
 1,852
Total assets
  $ 588 
 30,332 
 444 
 31,364
     Liabilities:
       Derivative liabilities:
         Interest rate contracts
  $ 1 
 257 
 3 
 261
     Foreign exchange contracts
     - 
 340 
 - 
 340
     Equity contracts
     - 
 - 
 61 
 61     Commodity contracts
     37 
 239 
 - 
 276
   Derivative liabilities
(e)
    38 
 836 
 64 
 938
        Short positions
(e)
    22 
 7 
 - 
 29
Total liabilities
  $ 60 
 843 
 64 
 967
(a) Excludes FHLB, FRB and DTCC restricted stock totaling 
$248
, $355 
and 
$1, respectively, at 
December 31, 2015
. (b) Includes residential mortgage loans originated as held for 
sale and subsequently transferred to held for investment. 
(c) During the year ended December 31, 2015, no assets or li
abilities were transferred between Level 1 and Level 2.  
(d) Included in other assets in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
(e) Included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets 
      
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  156  Fifth Third Bancorp 
    Fair Value Measurements Using
   December 31, 2014 ($ in millions)
    Level 1
(c) 
 Level 2
(c)  
Level 3
 Total Fair Value 
Assets:          Available-for-sale and other securities:
         U.S. Treasury and federal agencies securities
  $  25 
 1,607 
 - 
 1,632
     Obligations of states and political subdivisions securities
     - 
 192 
 - 
 192
     Mortgage-backed securities:
              Agency residential mortgage-backed securities
     - 
 12,404 
 - 
 12,404
          Agency comme
rcial mortgage-backed securities
     - 
 4,565 
 - 
 4,565
          Non-agency co
mmercial mortgage-backed securities
     - 
 1,550 
 - 
 1,550
     Asset-backed securities and other debt securities
     - 
 1,362 
 - 
 1,362
     Equity securities
(a)    84 
 19 
 - 
 103
   Available-for-sale and other securities
(a)
    109 
 21,699 
 - 
 21,808
        Trading securities:
         U.S. Treasury and federal agencies securities
     - 
 14 
 - 
 14
     Obligations of states and political subdivisions securities
     - 
 8 
 - 
 8     Mortgage-backed securities:
              Agency residential mortgage-backed securities
     - 
 9 
 - 
 9     Asset-backed securities and other debt securities
     - 
 13 
 - 
 13
     Equity securities
     316 
 - 
 - 
 316
   Trading securities
     316 
 44 
 - 
 360
        Residential mortgage loans held for sale
     - 
 561 
 - 
 561
   Residential mortgage loans
(b)
    - 
 - 
 108 
 108
   Derivative assets:
         Interest rate contracts
     - 
 888 
 12 
 900
     Foreign exchange contracts
     - 
 417 
 - 
 417
     Equity contracts
     - 
 - 
 415 
 415
     Commodity contracts
     68 
 280 
 - 
 348
   Derivative assets
(d)    68 
 1,585 
 427 
 2,080
Total assets
  $  493 
 23,889 
 535 
 24,917
     Liabilities:
       Derivative liabilities:
         Interest rate contracts
  $  6 
 276 
 2 
 284
     Foreign exchange contracts
     - 
 372 
 - 
 372
     Equity contracts
     - 
 - 
 49 
 49
     Commodity contracts
     58 
 280 
 - 
 338
   Derivative liabilities
(e)
    64 
 928 
 51 
 1,043
        Short positions
(e)
    16 
 5 
 - 
 21
Total liabilities
  $  80 
 933 
 51 
 1,064
(a) Excludes FHLB and FRB restricted stock totaling $2
48 and $352, respectively, at December 31, 2014. 
(b) Includes residential mortgage loans originated as held for 
sale and subsequently transferred to held for investment. 
(c) During the year ended December 31, 2014, no assets or 
liabilities were transferred between Level 1 and Level 2. 
(d) Included in other assets in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
(e) Included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets 
The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used 
for significant instruments measured 
at fair value, as well as the 
general classification of such inst
ruments pursuant 
to the valuation 
hierarchy.  
 
Available-for-sale and ot
her and trading securities 
Where quoted prices are available in 
an active market, securities are 
classified within Level 1 of the valu
ation hierarchy. Level 1 securities include U.S. Treasury securities and exchange-traded equities. If 
quoted market prices are not available
, then fair values are estimated 
using pricing models, quoted prices
 of securities with similar 
characteristics or DCFs. Examples of such instruments, which are 

classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy, include federal 

agencies securities, obligations of states and political subdivisions 

securities, agency residential mortgage-backed securities, agency and 

non-agency commercial mortgage-backed securities and asset-
backed securities and other debt 
securities. These securities are 
generally valued using a market approach based on observable 
prices of securities with similar characteristics. 

 
Residential mortgage loans held for sale  

For residential mortgage loans held for sale for which the fair value 

election has been made, fair value is estimated based upon 

mortgage-backed securities prices and spreads to those prices or, for 

certain ARM loans, DCF models that may incorporate the 
anticipated portfolio composition, 
credit spreads of asset-backed 
securities with similar collateral and market conditions. The 

anticipated portfolio composition includes the effect of interest rate 

spreads and discount rates due to loan characteristics such as the 

state in which the loan was orig
inated, the loan amount and the 
ARM margin. Residential mortgage loans held for sale that are 

valued based on mortgage-backed s
ecurities prices are classified 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  157  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy as the valuation is based on 
external pricing for similar instruments. ARM loans classified as 

held for sale are also classified 
within Level 2 of the valuation 
hierarchy due to the use of observable inputs in the DCF model. 

These observable inputs include interest rate spreads from agency 

mortgage-backed securities market
 rates and observable discount 
rates.  
 
Residential mortgage loans 
Residential mortgage loans held for sale that are reclassified to held 

for investment are transferred from 
Level 2 to Level 3 of the fair 
value hierarchy. It is the Bancor
p™s policy to value any transfers 
between levels of the fair value hierarchy based on end of period 

fair values.  For residential mortgage loans for which the fair value election 
has been made, and that are reclassi
fied from held for sale to held 
for investment, the fair value 
estimation is based on mortgage-
backed securities prices, intere
st rate risk and an internally 
developed credit component. Therefore, these loans are classified 

within Level 3 of the valuation hier
archy. An adverse change in the 
loss rate or severity assumption woul
d result in a decrease in fair 
value of the related loan. The Secondary Marketing department, 
which reports to the Bancorp™s Head of the Consumer Bank, in 
conjunction with the Consumer Credit Risk department, which 

reports to the Bancorp™s Chief Risk Officer, are responsible for 

determining the valuation methodology for residential mortgage 

loans held for investment. The Secondary Marketing department 

reviews loss severity assumptions quarterly to determine if 

adjustments are necessary based on 
decreases in observable housing 
market data. This group also reviews trades in comparable 
benchmark securities and adjusts the values of loans as necessary. 
Consumer Credit Risk is responsible for the credit component of 

the fair value which is based on internally developed loss rate 

models that take into account hist
orical loss rates and loss severities 
based on underlying collateral values. 

 
Derivatives 

Exchange-traded derivatives valued using quoted prices and certain 
over-the-counter derivatives valued using active bids are classified 
within Level 1 of the valuation hi
erarchy. Most of the Bancorp™s
derivative contracts are valued using DCF or other models that 

incorporate current market interest rates, credit spreads assigned to 

the derivative counterparties and other market parameters and, 

therefore, are classified within Le
vel 2 of the valuation hierarchy. 
Such derivatives include basic and 
structured interest rate, foreign 
exchange and commodity swaps and options. Derivatives that are 
valued based upon models with 
significant unobservable market parameters are classified within Le
vel 3 of the valuation hierarchy. 
At December 31, 2015 and 2014, deriva
tives classified as Level 3, 
which are valued using models 
containing unobservable inputs, 
consisted primarily of a warrant asso
ciated with the initial sale of the 
Bancorp™s 51% interest in Vantiv Holding, LLC to Advent 

International and a total return sw
ap associated with the Bancorp™s 
sale of Visa, Inc. Class B shares. For further information on the 
warrant, refer to Note 19. Level 3 derivatives also include IRLCs, 
which utilize internally generated lo
an closing rate assumptions as a 
significant unobservable input in the valuation process.  
As of December 31, 2015, the wa
rrant allows the Bancorp to 
purchase approximately 7.8 mil
lion incremental nonvoting units in Vantiv Holding, LLC at an exercise price of $15.98 per unit and 

requires settlement under certain defined conditions involving 

change of control. The fair value of the warrant is calculated in 
conjunction with a third-party valu
ation provider by applying Black-
Scholes option-pricing models using probability weighted scenarios 

which contain the following inputs: Vantiv, Inc. stock price, strike 

price per the Warrant Agreement and several unobservable inputs, 

such as expected term and expected volatility.  
For the warrant, an increase in the expected term (years) and 
the expected volatility assumptions wo
uld result in an increase in the 
fair value; conversely, a decrease 
in these assumptions would result 
in a decrease in the fair valu
e. The Accounting and Treasury 
departments, both of which report
 to the Bancorp™s Chief Financial 
Officer, determined the valuatio
n methodology for the warrant. The 
Accounting and Treasury departments
 review changes in fair value 
on a quarterly basis for reasonableness based on changes in 

historical and implied volatilities, expected terms, probability 
weightings of the related scenarios and other assumptions. 
Under the terms of the total return swap, the Bancorp will 
make or receive payments based on subsequent changes in the 

conversion rate of the Visa, Inc. Cl
ass B shares into Class A shares. 
Additionally, the Bancorp will make
 a quarterly payment based on 
Visa™s stock price and the conversi
on rate of the Visa, Inc. Class B 
shares into Class A shares unt
il the date on which the Covered 
Litigation is settled. The fair value of the total return swap was 
calculated using a DCF model based on unobservable inputs 
consisting of management™s estimate of the probability of certain 

litigation scenarios, the timing 
of the resolution of the Covered 
Litigation and Visa litigation loss esti
mates in excess, or shortfall, of 
the Bancorp™s proportional share of escrow funds. 
An increase in the loss estimate or a delay in the resolution of 
the Covered Litigation would result 
in an increase in fair value; 
conversely, a decrease in the loss estimate or an acceleration of the 
resolution of the Covered Litigation would result in a decrease in 
fair value. The Accounting and 
Treasury departments determined 
the valuation methodology for the total return swap. The 

Accounting and Treasury departments review the changes in fair 

value on a quarterly basis for re
asonableness based on Visa stock 
price changes, litigation contingencies, and escrow funding. The net fair value asset of the IRLCs at December 31, 2015 
was $15 million. Immediate decreases in current interest rates of 25 
bps and 50 bps would result in increases in the fair value of the 
IRLCs of approximately $6 million and $11 million, respectively. 

Immediate increases of current interest rates of 25 bps and 50 bps 

would result in decreases in the fair value of the IRLCs of 

approximately $7 million and $14 mi
llion, respectively. The decrease 
in the fair value of IRLCs due to immediate 10% and 20% adverse 

changes in the assumed loan closing rates would be approximately 

$2 million and $3 million, respectivel
y, and the increase in the fair 
value due to immediate 10% and 20% favorable changes in the 
assumed loan closing rates would 
be approximately $2 million and 
$3 million, respectively. These sensitivities are hypothetical and 

should be used with caution, as changes in fair value based on a 

variation in assumptions typically cannot be extrapolated because 

the relationship of the change in assumptions to the change in fair 

value may not be linear.  
The Consumer Line of Busine
ss Finance department, which 
reports to the Bancorp™s Chief Financial Officer, and the 
aforementioned Secondary Marketing department are responsible 

for determining the valuation methodology for IRLCs. Secondary 

Marketing, in conjunction with a third-party valuation provider, 

periodically review loan closing 
rate assumptions and recent loan 
sales to determine if adjustments are needed for current market 

conditions not reflected in historical data.   
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  158  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following tables are a reconciliation of
 assets and liabilities measured at fair v
alue on a recurring basis using significa
nt unobservable inputs 
(Level 3):                       Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3)
        Residential Interest Rate
  Equity         Trading
 Mortgage  
Derivatives,
  Derivatives,
    Total For the year ended December 31, 2015 ($ in millions)
  Securities
 Loans Net(a) Net(a)   Fair Value
 Balance, beginning of period
  $  - 
 108 
 10 
 366 
 484 
   Total gains or losses (realized/unrealized):
         Included in earnings
     - 
 - 
 111 
 288 
 399 
   Purchases
     - 
 - 
 (2)
 - 
 (2)
   Sale and exercise of warrant
     - 
 - 
 - 
 (477)
 (477)
   Settlements
     - 
 (28)
 (107)
 24 
 (111)
   Transfers into Level 3
(b)    - 
 87 
 - 
 - 
 87 
Balance, end of period
  $ - 
 167 
 12 
 201 
 380 
The amount of total gains for the period
             included in earnings attributable to the change in
          unrealized gains or losses relating to assets
          still held at December 31, 2015
(c)
 $  - 
 - 
 17 
 66 
 83 
(a) Net interest rate derivatives include derivative assets and liabilities of 
$15 
and $3, respectively, as of 
December 31, 2015
. Net equity derivatives include derivative assets and liabilities of 
$262
 and $61
, respectively, as of 
December 31, 2015
. (b) Includes residential mortgage loans held for sale 
that were transferred to held for investment. 
(c) Includes interest income and expense. 
                      Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3)
        Residential Interest Rate
  Equity          Trading
 Mortgage  
Derivatives,
  Derivatives,
     Total For the year ended December 31
, 2014 ($ in millions)
  Securities
 Loans Net(a) Net(a)    Fair Value
Balance, beginning of period
  $  1 
 92 
8  336 
  437 
   Total gains or losses (realized/unrealized):
           Included in earnings
     - 
4  125 
(7)
  122 
   Purchases
     - 
 - 
(1)
 - 
  (1)
   Sales
    (1)
 - 
 - 
 - 
  (1)
   Settlements
     - 
(17)
(122)
 37 
  (102)
   Transfers into Level 3
(b)    - 
 29 
 - 
 - 
  29 
Balance, end of period
  $  - 
 108 
 10 
366 
  484 
The amount of total gains (losses) for the period
            included in earnings attributable to the change in
            unrealized gains or losses relating to assets
            still held at December 31, 2014
(c)
 $  - 
4  13 
(7)
  10 
(a) Net interest rate derivatives include derivative assets and liabi
lities of $12 and $2, respectively as of December 31, 2014. Ne
t equity derivatives include derivative assets and liabilities of $415 and 
$49, respectively, as of December 31, 2014. 
(b) Includes residential mortgage loans held for sale 
that were transferred to held for investment. 
(c) Includes interest income and expense. 
                      Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3)
       Residential Interest Rate
  Equity            Trading
 Mortgage  
Derivatives, 
  Derivatives,
     Total For the year ended December 31
, 2013 ($ in millions)
   Securities
Loans Net(a) Net(a)    Fair Value
Balance, beginning of period
  $  1 
 76 
57 
144 
   278 
   Total gains or losses (realized/unrealized):
           Included in earnings
     - 
(1)
59 
175 
   233 
   Purchases
     - 
 - 
(2)
 - 
  (2)
   Settlements
     - 
(17)
(106)
17 
  (106)
   Transfers into Level 3
(b)    - 
 34 
 - 
 - 
   34 
Balance, end of period
  $  1 
 92 
 8 
 336 
   437 
The amount of total gains (losses) for the period
               included in earnings attributable to the change in
               unrealized gains or losses relating to assets
               still held at December 31, 2013
(c)
 $  - 
(1)
11 
175 
  185 
(a) Net interest rate derivatives include derivative assets and liabi
lities of $12 and $4, respectively, as of December 31, 2013. N
et equity derivatives include derivati
ve assets and liabilities of $384 and 
$48, respectively, as of December 31, 2013. 
(b) Includes residential mortgage loans held for sale 
that were transferred to held for investment. 
(c) Includes interest income and expense. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  159  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The total gains and losses included in earn
ings for assets and liabilities measured at
 fair value on a recurring basis using si
gnificant unobservable 
inputs (Level 3) were recorded in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013
 as follows:      ($ in millions)
  2015 
 2014 
 2013  
Mortgage banking net revenue 
$ 110 
 127 
 57 
Corporate banking revenue 
  1 
 2 
 1 
Other noninterest income 
  288 
 (7)
 175 
Total gains 
$ 399 
 122 
 233 
  The total gains and losses included in earnin
gs attributable to changes in unrealized 
gains and losses related to Level 3 asset
s and liabilities still held
at December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Income as follows:
      ($ in millions)
  2015 
 2014 
 2013  
Mortgage banking net revenue 
$ 16 
 16 
 10 
Corporate banking revenue 
  1 
 1 
 - 
Other noninterest income 
  66 
 (7)
 175 
Total gains 
$ 83 
 10 
 185 
      The following tables present information as of December 31, 2015 
and 2014 about significant unobservable inputs related to the 
Bancorp™s
material categories of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities measured on a recurring basis:
                As of December 31, 2015 ($ in millions)
               Financial Instrument 
    Fair Value 
 Valuation Technique 
Significant Unobservable 
Inputs 
  Ranges of 
Inputs 
 Weighted-Average
Residential mortgage loans 
  $ 167  Loss rate model 
 Interest rate risk factor 
  (9.2) - 16.5%
3.1%         Credit risk factor   0 - 80.5%
1.3%IRLCs, net 
    15  Discounted cash flow 
 Loan closing rates 
  5.8 - 94.0%
76.3%
Stock warrant associated with Vantiv Holding, LLC
    262 
 Black-Scholes option-
 Expected term (years)   2.0 - 13.5
5.9 
       pricing model 
 Expected volatility(a) 22.6 - 31.2%
25.9%
Swap associated with th
e sale of Visa, Inc. 
    (61) Discounted cash flow 
 Timing of the resolution 
  12/31/2016 -
NMClass B shares
            of the Covered Litigation 
  3/31/2021
(a) Based on historical and implied volatilities of Vantiv, Inc.
 and comparable companies assuming similar expected terms.
               As of December 31, 2014
 ($ in millions)
               Financial Instrument 
    Fair Value
 Valuation Technique 
Significant Unobservable 
Inputs
  Ranges of 
Inputs
 Weighted-Average
Residential mortgage loans 
  $ 108  
Loss rate model  
Interest rate risk factor 
  (7.2) - 17.7%
5.0%
         Credit risk factor   0 - 46.6%
1.8%
IRLCs, net 
    12 
 Discounted cash flow  
Loan closing rates 
  8.8 - 86.7%
65.2%
Stock warrant associated with Vantiv Holding, LLC
    415 
 Black-Scholes option- 
Expected term (years)   2.0 - 14.5
6.0 
       pricing model 
 Expected volatility(a) 22.9 - 32.2%
26.5%
Swap associated with th
e sale of Visa, Inc. 
    (49)
 Discounted cash flow  
Timing of the resolution 
  12/31/2015 -
NMClass B shares
            of the Covered Litigation
  6/30/2020
(a) Based on historical and implied volatilities of Vantiv, Inc.
 and comparable companies assuming similar expected terms.
 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a 
Nonrecurring Basis 
Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a 

nonrecurring basis. These assets 
and liabilities are not measured at 
fair value on an ongoing basis; 
however, they are subject to fair 
value adjustments in certain circum
stances, such as when there is 
evidence of impairment.  
  
 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  160  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following tables provide the fair value hierarchy and carryin
g amount of all assets that were held as of December 31, 2015 
and 2014, and for 
which a nonrecurring fair value adjustment was recorded duri
ng the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related ga
ins and losses 
from fair value adjustments on assets sold
 during the period as well as assets still held as of the end of the period. 
                Fair Value Measurements Using
     Total (Losses) Gains 
 As of December 31, 2015 ($ in millions) 
    Level 1
 Level 2 
Level 3 
Total 
For the year ended December 31, 2015
 Commercial loans held for sale 
  $  - 
 - 13 
 13 
 3 
Residential mortgage loans held for sale
      - 
 - 68 
 68 
 (2)
Automobile loans held for sale
      - 
 - 2 
 2 
 - 
Credit cards held for sale      - 
 - 4 
 4 
 (2)
Commercial and industrial loans
      - 
 - 344 
 344 
 (137)
Commercial mortgage loans
      - 
 - 103 
 103 
 (41)
Commercial construction loans
      - 
 - 6 
 6 
 (5)
Residential mortgage loans
      - 
 - 55 
 55 
 (1)
MSRs      - 
 - 784 
 784 
 4 
OREO      - 
 - 58 
 58 
 (24)
Bank premises and equipment
      - 
 - 83 
 83 
 (101)
Operating lease equipment
      - 
 - 42 
 42 
 (33)
Private equity investment funds
      - 
 - 13 
 13 
 (1)
Total 
   $  - 
 - 1,575 
 1,575 
 (340)
              Fair Value Measurements Using 
    Total Losses 
 As of December 31, 2014
 ($ in millions) 
    Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
Total 
For the year ended December 31, 2014
 Commercial loans held for sale 
  $  - - 33 
 33 
 (12)
Residential mortgage loans held for sale 
     - - 554 
 554 
 (87)
Commercial and industrial loans 
     - - 456 
 456 
 (382)
Commercial mortgage loans 
     - - 110 
 110 
 (36)
Commercial construction loans 
     - - 23 
 23 
 (1)
MSRs      - - 856 
 856 
 (65)
OREO 
     - - 90 
 90 
 (26)
Bank premises and equipment 
     - - 22 
 22 
 (20)
Total  
  $  - - 2,144 
 2,144 
 (629)
              The following tables present information as of December 31, 2015 
and 2014 about significant unobservable inputs related to the 
Bancorp™s 
material categories of Level 3 financial 
assets measured on a nonrecurring basis:                 As of December 31, 2015 ($ in millions)
                 Financial Instrument  
  Fair 
Value 
   Valuation Technique 
Significant Unobservable 
Inputs  
Ranges of 
Inputs  
Weighted-Average 
Commercial loans held for sale  
$ 13   Discounted cash flow
 Discount spread 
NM4.4%Residential mortgage loans held for sale 
   68 
  Loss rate model
 Interest rate risk factor 
(7.5) - 0.1%
(1.6%)        Credit risk factor 
NM0.1%Automobile loans held for sale
   2   Discounted cash flow
 Discount spread 
NM3.1%Credit cards held for sale   4   Comparable transactions
 Estimated sales proceeds from 
NMNM         comparable transactions 
Commercial and industrial loans
   344 
  Appraised value
 Collateral value  
NMNM Commercial mortgage loans 
   103   Appraised value
 Collateral value  
NMNM Commercial construction loans 
   6   Appraised value
 Collateral value  
NMNM Residential mortgage loans
   55 
  Appraised value
 Appraised value  
NMNM MSRs   784 
  Discounted cash flow
 Prepayment speed  
1.0 - 100%
(Fixed) 11.8%(Adjustable) 27.0%
        OAS spread (bps) 
364 - 1,515
(Fixed) 618
(Adjustable) 703
OREO   58 
  Appraised value
 Appraised value  
NMNM Bank premises and equipment
   83 
  Appraised value
 Appraised value  
NMNM Operating lease equipment
   42 
  Appraised value
 Appraised value  
NMNM Private equity investment funds
   13   Liquidity discount applied
Liquidity discount 
NM18.0%          to fund's net asset value
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  161  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 As of December 31, 2014
 ($ in millions)
                            Significant Unobservable 
Ranges of 
  Financial Instrument  
  Fair 
Value 
   Valuation Technique 
Inputs 
Inputs 
Weighted-Average 
Commercial loans held for sale  
$ 33 
  Appraised value 
Appraised value  
NMNM         Cost to sell  
NM10.0%
Residential mortgage loans held for sale  
  554 
  Comparable transactions
Estimated sales  proceeds from 
NM15.0%
        comparable transactions 
Commercial and industrial loans 
  456 
  Appraised value 
Collateral value  
NMNM Commercial mortgage loans  
  110 
  Appraised value 
Collateral value  
NMNM Commercial construction loans  
  23 
  Appraised value 
Collateral value  
NMNM MSRs   856 
  Discounted cash flow 
Prepayment speed  
0 - 100%
(Fixed) 12.0%
(Adjustable) 26.2%
        Discount rates 
9.6 - 13.2%
(Fixed) 9.9% 
(Adjustable) 11.8%
OREO 
  90 
  Appraised value 
Appraised value  
NMNM Bank premises and equipment 
  22 
  Appraised value 
Appraised value  
NMNM             Commercial loans held for sale 
During the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Bancorp 

transferred $37 million and $28 million, respectively, of commercial 

loans from the portfolio to loans held for sale that upon transfer 

were measured at the lower of cost or fair value. These loans had 

fair value adjustments during 
the years ended December 31, 2015 
and 2014 totaling $1 million and $10 million, respectively, and were 

generally based on either appraisals
 of the underlying collateral or 
were estimated by discounting futu
re cash flows using the current 
market rates of loans to borrowers with similar credit characteristics, 

similar remaining maturities, prepayment speeds and loss severities 

and were, therefore, classified 
within Level 3 of the valuation 
hierarchy. Additionally, during the years ended December 31, 2015 

and 2014 there were fair value adjustments on existing loans held 

for sale of $1 million and $2 million, respectively. The fair value 

adjustments were also based on 
appraisals of the underlying 
collateral. The Bancorp recognized $5
 million in gains on the sale of 
certain commercial loans held for sale during the year ended 

December 31, 2015.   

     The Accounting department determines the procedures for the 

valuation of commercial loans held for sale using appraised value 

which may include a comparison to 
recently executed transactions 
of similar type loans. A monthly review of the portfolio is 

performed for reasonableness. Quarterly, appraisals approaching 
one year old are updated and the Real Estate Valuation group, 
which reports to the Bancorp™s Chief Risk Officer, in conjunction 

with the Commercial Line of Business review the third-party 

appraisals for reasonableness. Additionally, the Commercial Line of 

Business Finance department, which reports to the Bancorp™s Chief 

Financial Officer, in conjunction with the Accounting department 

reviews all loan appraisal values, carry values and vintages. The 

Treasury department, which reports to the Bancorp™s Chief 
Financial Officer, is responsible for the estimate of fair value 
adjustments when a discounted future cash flow valuation technique 

is employed.   

 
Residential mortgage loans held for sale  

During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Bancorp transferred 

$233 million of residential mortgage loans from the portfolio to 

loans held for sale that upon transfer were measured at the lower of 
cost or fair value using significan
t unobservable inputs. Fair values 
were estimated based on mortgage-backed securities prices, interest 

rate risk and an internally develo
ped credit component. These loans 
had $2 million of fair value adjustments during the year ended 

December 31, 2015. The Secondary Marketing department, which 

reports to the Bancorp™s Head of the Consumer Bank, in 
conjunction with the Consumer Credit Risk department, which 
reports to the Bancorp™s Chief Risk Officer, are responsible for 

determining the valuation methodology for residential mortgage 

loans held for investment. The Secondary Marketing department 

reviews loss severity assumptions quarterly to determine if 

adjustments are necessary based on 
decreases in observable housing 
market data. This group also reviews trades in comparable 

benchmark securities and adjusts the values of loans as necessary. 
Consumer Credit Risk is responsible for the credit component of 
the fair value which is based on internally developed loss rate 

models that take into account hist
orical loss rates and loss severities 
based on underlying collateral values.  

     During the year ended December 31, 2014 the Bancorp 

transferred $720 million of restructured residential mortgage loans 

from the portfolio to loans held for sale that upon transfer were 

measured at the lower of cost or fair value using significant 
unobservable inputs. These loans had fair value adjustments during 
the year ended December 31, 2014 totaling $87 million. The fair 

value adjustments were based on es
timated third-party valuations 
utilizing recent sales data from similar transactions. Broker opinion 

statements were also obtained as 
additional evidence to support the 
third-party valuations. The Treasury department worked with the 
third-party advisor to estimate 
the fair value adjustments. The 
discounts taken were intended to represent the perspective of a 
market participant, considerin
g among other things, required 
investor returns which include liquidity discounts reflected in similar 

bulk transactions. 
 
Automobile loans held for sale  

During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Bancorp transferred 

$5 million of automobile loans from the portfolio to loans held for 

sale that upon transfer were measured at the lower of cost or fair 
value using significant unobserva
ble inputs. Fair values were 
estimated by discounting future ca
sh flows using the current market 
rates of loans to borrowers with sim
ilar credit characteristics, similar 
remaining maturities, prepayment speeds and loss severities. These 

loans had an immaterial amount of fair value adjustments during the 

year ended December 31, 2015. The Treasury department, which 

reports to the Bancorp™s Chief Fina
ncial Officer, is responsible for 
the estimate of fair value adjustments.  
 Credit cards held for sale  

During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Bancorp transferred 

$102 million of credit cards from the portfolio to loans held for sale 

that upon transfer were measured at the lower of cost or fair value 

using significant unobservable inpu
ts. Fair values were estimated 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  162  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 based on recent sales data from similar transactions. These loans 
had fair value adjustments of $2
 million during the year ended 
December 31, 2015. The Consumer Credit Risk department, which 

reports to the Bancorp™s Chief Risk Officer, in conjunction with the 
Accounting department, which reports to the Bancorp™s Chief 
Financial Officer, are responsible 
for the estimate of fair value 
adjustments.  
 
Commercial loans held for investment  

During the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Bancorp 

recorded nonrecurring impairment adjustments to certain 

commercial and industrial loans, 
commercial mortgage loans and 
commercial construction loans held for investment. Larger 
commercial loans included within aggregate borrower relationship 

balances exceeding $1 million that exhibit probable or observed 

credit weaknesses are subject to individual review for impairment. 

The Bancorp considers the current value of collateral, credit quality 

of any guarantees, the guaranto
r™s liquidity and willingness to 
cooperate, the loan structure and other factors when evaluating 

whether an individual loan is imp
aired. When the loan is collateral 
dependent, the fair value of the loan is generally based on the fair 
value of the underlying collateral 
supporting the loan and therefore 
these loans were classified within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. 

In cases where the carrying value exceeds the fair value, an 

impairment loss is recognized. Th
e fair values and recognized 
impairment losses are reflected in
 the previous tables. Commercial 
Credit Risk, which reports to the Bancorp™s Chief Risk Officer, is 

responsible for preparing and review
ing the fair value estimates for 
commercial loans held for investment. 
 
Residential mortgage loans held for investment 

During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Bancorp transferred 

approximately $55 million of restru
ctured residential mortgage loans 
from held for sale to the portfolio as the Bancorp no longer had the 

intent to sell the loans. Upon tr
ansfer, the Bancorp recognized a 
nonrecurring fair value adjustment of $1 million on these loans, 
which had previously been transferre
d to held for sale in the fourth 
quarter of 2014.  
 
MSRs 

Mortgage interest rates increased during the year ended December 

31, 2015 which led to a recovery of temporary impairment on 

servicing rights. Mortgage rates decreased during the year ended 

December 31, 2014 and the Bancorp recognized temporary 
impairment in certain classes of the MSR portfolio and the carrying 
value was adjusted to fair value. MSRs do not trade in an active, 

open market with readily observable prices. While sales of MSRs do 

occur, the precise terms and conditions typically are not readily 

available. Accordingly, the Bancorp 
estimates the fair value of MSRs 
using internal OAS models with
 certain unobservable inputs, 
primarily prepayment speed assumptions, OAS and weighted-

average lives, resulting in a classification within Level 3 of the 
valuation hierarchy. Refer to Note 12 for further information on the 
assumptions used in the valuat
ion of the Bancorp™s MSRs. The 
Secondary Marketing department and Treasury department are 

responsible for determining the valuation methodology for MSRs. 

Representatives from Secondary Ma
rketing, Treasury, Accounting 
and Risk Management are responsible for reviewing key 

assumptions used in the internal OAS model. Two external 

valuations of the MSR portfolio are obtained from third parties that 
use valuation models in order to assess the reasonableness of the 
internal OAS model. Additionally, th
e Bancorp participates in peer 
surveys that provide additional c
onfirmation of the reasonableness 
of key assumptions utilized in th
e MSR valuation process and the 
resulting MSR prices. OREO During the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Bancorp 

recorded nonrecurring adjustments to certain commercial and 

residential real estate properties classified as OREO and measured 
at the lower of carrying amount 
or fair value. These nonrecurring 
losses were primarily due to declines in real estate values of the 

properties recorded in OREO. For the years ended December 31, 

2015 and 2014, these losses include $14 million and $12 million, 

respectively, recorded as charge-offs, on new OREO properties 

transferred from loans during the respective periods and $10 million 

and $14 million, respectively, recorded as negative fair value 

adjustments on OREO in other noninterest expense in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income 
subsequent to their transfer 
from loans. As discussed in the fo
llowing paragraphs, the fair value 
amounts are generally based on appraisals of the property values, 

resulting in a classification within 
Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. 
In cases where the carrying amount exceeds the fair value, less costs 

to sell, an impairment loss is recogn
ized. The previous tables reflect 
the fair value measurements of the properties before deducting the 

estimated costs to sell. 
     The Real Estate Valuation department, which reports to the 
Bancorp™s Chief Risk Officer, is solely responsible for managing the 

appraisal process and evaluating the appraisal for commercial 

properties transferred to OREO. All appraisals on commercial 

OREO properties are updated on at least an annual basis.  
     The Real Estate Valuation department reviews the BPO data and 

internal market information to de
termine the initial charge-off on 
residential real estate loans transferred to OREO. Once the 
foreclosure process is completed, the Bancorp performs an interior 
inspection to update the initial fair value of the property. These 

properties are reviewed at least ever
y 30 days after the initial interior 
inspections are completed. The Asset Manager receives a monthly 

status report for each property, which includes the number of 

showings, recently sold properties,
 current comparable listings and 
overall market conditions.  

 Bank premises and equipment 
The Bancorp performs assessments 
of the recoverability of long-
lived assets when events or changes in circumstances indicate that 

their carrying values may not be recoverable. These properties were 

written down to their lower of cost or market values. At least 

annually thereafter, the Bancorp w
ill review these properties for 
market fluctuations. The fair value amounts were generally based on 

appraisals of the property values, re
sulting in a classification within 
Level 3 of the valuation hierarch
y. Corporate Facilities, which 
reports to the Bancorp™s Chief Administrative Officer, in 

conjunction with Accounting, is responsible for preparing and 

reviewing the fair value estimates 
for bank premises and equipment. 
For further information on bank premises and equipment and 
discussion on changes to the branch network, refer to Note 7 and 

Note 31. 
 Operating lease equipment During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Bancorp recorded 

nonrecurring impairment adjustments to certain operating lease 

equipment. When evaluating whether 
an individual asset is impaired, 
the Bancorp considers the current fair value of the asset, the 

changes in overall market demand for the asset and the rate of 

change in advancements associated with technological 

improvements that impact the demand for the specific asset under 
review. As part of this ongoing assessment, the Bancorp determined 
that the carrying values of certain
 operating lease equipment were 
not recoverable and as a result, the Bancorp recorded an 

impairment loss equal to the amount by which the carrying value of 

the assets exceeded the fair value. The fair value amounts were 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  163  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 generally based on appraised values of the assets, resulting in a 
classification within Level 3 of
 the valuation hierarchy. The 
Commercial Leasing department, wh
ich reports to the Bancorp™s 
Chief Operating Officer, is respons
ible for preparing and reviewing 
the fair value estimates for operating
 lease equipment. Refer to Note 
8 for further information on the impairment charge related to 
certain operating lease equipment.  
 
Private equity investment funds 
On December 10, 2013, the U.S. bank
ing agencies finalized section 
619 of the DFA, known as the Volcker Rule, which became 

effective April 1, 2014. Though the 
final rule was effective April 1, 
2014, the FRB granted the industry an extension of time until July 

21, 2015 to conform certain of its activities related to proprietary 
trading to comply with the Volcker Rule. In addition, the FRB has 
granted the industry an extensi
on of time until July 21, 2016, and 
announced its intention to grant a one year extension of the 

conformance period until July 21, 2017, to conform certain 

ownership interests in, sponsorship 
activities of and relationships 
with private equity or hedge fu
nds as well as holding certain 
collateralized loan obligations that 
were in place as of December 31, 
2013. It is expected that over time the Bancorp may need to sell or 
redeem these investments, however no formal plan to sell has been 
approved as of December 31, 2015. As a result of the announced 

conformance period extension, the Bancorp believes it is likely that 

these investments will be reduced over time in the ordinary course 
of events before compliance is required
. As a result, the Bancorp 
has performed nonrecurring fair v
alue measurements on a fund by 
fund basis to determine whether OTTI exists. The Bancorp 
estimated the fair value of a fund by using the net asset value 
reported by the fund manager, and in some cases, applying an 

estimated market discount to the reported net asset value of the 

fund. Because the length of time until the investment will become 

redeemable is generally not certain, these funds were classified 

within Level 3 of the valuation hi
erarchy. The Bancorp recognized 
$1 million of OTTI on its investments in private equity funds 

during the year ended December 31, 2015. The Bancorp did not 
recognize OTTI on its investments in private equity funds during 
the year ended December 31, 2014. An adverse change in the 

reported net asset values or estimated market discounts where 

applicable, would result in a decrea
se in the fair value estimate. In 
cases where the carrying value exceed
s the fair value, an impairment 
loss is recognized. The Bancorp™s 
Private Equity department, which 
reports to the Chief Operating Officer, in conjunction with the 
Accounting department, is respons
ible for preparing and reviewing 
the fair value estimates. 
 Fair Value Option 
The Bancorp elected to measure certain residential mortgage loans 

held for sale under the fair value option as allowed under U.S. 

GAAP. Electing to measure residential mortgage loans held for sale 
at fair value reduces certain timing differences and better matches 
changes in the value of these assets with changes in the value of 

derivatives used as economic hedges for these assets.
 Management™s 
intent to sell residential mortgage loans classified as held for sale 

may change over time due to such factors as changes in the overall 

liquidity in markets or changes in 
characteristics specific to certain 
loans held for sale. Consequently, these loans may be reclassified to 

loans held for investment and main
tained in the Bancorp™s loan 
portfolio. In such cases, the loan
s will continue to be measured at 
fair value.  

     Fair value changes recognized 
in earnings for instruments held at 
December 31, 2015 and 2014 for which the fair value option was 

elected, as well as the changes in f
air value of the underlying IRLCs, 
included gains of $17 million and $26 million, respectively. These 

gains are reported in mortgage banking net revenue in the 

Consolidated Statements of Income.  
     Valuation adjustments related
 to instrument-specific credit risk 
for residential mortgage loans measured at fair value negatively 

impacted the fair value of those loans by $2 million at both 

December 31, 2015 and 2014. Interest on residential mortgage loans 

measured at fair value is accrued as
 it is earned using the effective 
interest method and is reported
 as interest income in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income. 
  The following table summarizes the difference between the fair 
value and the principal balance for residential mortgage loans m
easured at fair
value as of:        Aggregate 
Aggregate Unpaid 
   ($ in millions) 
 Fair Value 
Principal Balance 
 Difference December 31, 2015
  Residential mortgage loans measured at fair value 
$ 686 
 669 
 17 
Past due loans of 90 days or more
   2 
 2 
 - 
Nonaccrual loans
   2 
 2 
 - 
   December 31, 2014 
 Residential mortgage loans measured at fair value 
$ 669 
 643 
 26 
Past due loans of 90 days or more 
  2 
 2 
 - 
Nonaccrual loans 
  3 
 3 
 - 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  164  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Fair Value of Certain Financial Instruments
   The following tables summarize the carryin
g amounts and estimated fair values for 
certain financial instruments, excluding f
inancial instruments 
measured at fair value on a recurring basis:        Net Carrying 
Fair Value Measurements Using  
Total  
As of December 31, 2015 ($ in millions)
  Amount 
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
Fair Value 
Financial assets: 
    Cash and due from banks
 $ 2,540
 2,540 
 - 
 - 
 2,540
   Other securities
   604
 - 
 604 
 - 
 604
   Held-to-maturity securities
   70
 - 
 - 
 70 
 70
   Other short-term investments
   2,671
 2,671 
 - 
 - 
 2,671
   Loans held for sale
   384
 - 
 - 
 384 
 384
   Portfolio loans and leases:
        Commercial and industrial loans
   41,479
 - 
 - 
 41,802 
 41,802
      Commercial mortgage loans
   6,840
 - 
 - 
 6,656 
 6,656
      Commercial construction loans
   3,190
 - 
 - 
 2,918 
 2,918
      Commercial leases
   3,807
 - 
 - 
 3,533 
 3,533
      Residential mortgage loans
   13,449
 - 
 - 
 14,061 
 14,061
      Home equity
   8,234
 - 
 - 
 8,948 
 8,948
      Automobile loans
   11,453
 - 
 - 
 11,170 
 11,170
      Credit card
   2,160
 - 
 - 
 2,551 
 2,551
      Other consumer loans and leases
   646
 - 
 - 
 643 
 643
      Unallocated allowance for loan and lease losses
   (115)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -   Total portfolio loans and leases, net
   91,143
 - 
 - 
 92,282 
 92,282
Financial liabilities:
     Deposits
   103,205
 - 
 103,219 
 - 
 103,219
   Federal funds purchased
   151
 151 
 - 
 - 
 151
   Other short-term borrowings
   1,507
 - 
 1,507 
 - 
 1,507
   Long-term debt
   15,844
 15,637 
 625 
 - 
 16,262
     Net Carrying 
Fair Value Measurements Using 
Total 
As of December 31, 2014
 ($ in millions) 
 Amount 
Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
Fair Value 
Financial assets: 
    Cash and due from banks
 $ 3,091
 3,091 
 - 
 - 
 3,091
   Other securities 
  600
 - 
 600 
 - 
 600
   Held-to-maturity securities 
  187
 - 
 - 
 187 
 187
   Other short-term investments 
  7,914
 7,914 
 - 
 - 
 7,914
   Loans held for sale 
  700
 - 
 - 
 700 
 700
   Portfolio loans and leases: 
       Commercial and industrial loans 
  40,092
 - 
 - 
 40,781 
 40,781
      Commercial mortgage loans 
  7,259
 - 
 - 
 6,878 
 6,878
      Commercial construction loans 
  2,052
 - 
 - 
 1,735 
 1,735
      Commercial leases 
  3,675
 - 
 - 
 3,426 
 3,426
      Residential mortgage loans 
  12,177
 - 
 - 
 12,249 
 12,249
      Home equity 
  8,799
 - 
 - 
 9,224 
 9,224
      Automobile loans 
  12,004
 - 
 - 
 11,748 
 11,748
      Credit card 
  2,297
 - 
 - 
 2,586 
 2,586
      Other consumer loans and leases 
  405
 - 
 - 
 414 
 414
      Unallocated allowance for loan and lease losses 
  (106)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -   Total portfolio loans and leases, net 
  88,654
 - 
 - 
 89,041 
 89,041
Financial liabilities: 
    Deposits 
  101,712
 - 
 101,715 
 - 
 101,715
   Federal funds purchased 
  144
 144 
 - 
 - 
 144
   Other short-term borrowings 
  1,556
 - 
 1,561 
 - 
 1,561
   Long-term debt 
  14,967
 14,993 
 655 
 - 
 15,648
  Cash and due from banks, other securit
ies, other short-term investments, 
deposits, federal funds purchased and other short-term borrowings 

For financial instruments with a short-term or no stated maturity, 
prevailing market rates and limited credit risk, carrying amounts 
approximate fair value. Those fina
ncial instruments include cash and 
due from banks, FHLB and FRB restricted stock, other short-term 

investments, certain deposits (demand, interest checking, savings, 

money market and foreign office deposits), federal funds purchased 

and other short-term borrowings excluding FHLB borrowings. Fair 
values for other time deposits, certificates of deposit $100,000 and 
over and FHLB borrowings were es
timated using a DCF calculation 
that applies prevailing LIBOR/swap 
interest rates and a spread for 
new issuances with similar terms.  
Held-to-maturity securities 

The Bancorp™s held-to-maturity secu
rities are primarily composed of 
instruments that provide income tax credits as the economic return 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  165  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 on the investment. The fair value of these instruments is estimated 
based on current U.S. Treasury tax credit rates. 

 
Loans held for sale 

Fair values for commercial loans held for sale were valued based on 

executable bids when available or on DCF models incorporating 
appraisals of the underlying collat
eral, as well as assumptions about 
investor return requirements and amounts and timing of expected 

cash flows. Fair values for residential mortgage loans held for sale 

were valued based on estimated third-party valuations utilizing 

recent sales data from similar transactions. Broker opinion 

statements were also obtained as 
additional evidence to support the 
third-party valuations. Fair values 
for other consumer loans held for 
sale were based on contractual values upon which the loans may be 
sold to a third party and approximate their carrying value. 
 
Portfolio loans and leases, net 

Fair values were estimated based on either appraisals of the 

underlying collateral or by discou
nting future cash flows using the 
current market rates of loans to
 borrowers with similar credit 
characteristics, similar remainin
g maturities, prepayment speeds and 
loss severities. The Bancorp estimate
s fair values at the transaction 
level whenever possible. For certain
 products with a large number 
of homogenous transactions, the 
Bancorp employs a pool approach. 
This approach involves stratifyin
g and sorting the entire population 
of transactions into a smaller number of pools with like 

characteristics. Characteristics ma
y include maturity date, coupon, 
origination date and principal amortization method. 
 
Long-term debt Fair value of long-term debt was 
based on quoted market prices, 
when available, or a DCF calculation using LIBOR/swap interest 

rates and, in some cases, Fifth Third credit and/or debt instrument 

spreads for new issuances with similar terms. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  166  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 28. CERTAIN REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS AND CAPITAL RATIOS The principal source of income and funds for the Bancorp (parent 
company) are dividends from its subsidiaries. The dividends paid by 
the Bancorp™s banking subsidiary 
are subject to regulations and 
limitations prescribed by the appropriate state and federal 

supervisory authorities. The Bancorp™s nonbank subsidiaries are also 

limited by certain federal and state statutory provisions and 

regulations covering the amount of
 dividends that may be paid in 
any given year. The Bancorp™s banking subsidiary must maintain cash reserve 
balances when total reservable depos
it liabilities are greater than the 
regulatory exemption. These reserv
e requirements may be satisfied 
with vault cash and balances on de
posit with the FRB. In 2015 and 
2014, the Bancorp™s banking subsidiary was required to maintain 

average cash reserve balances of $1.8 billion and $1.7 billion, 

respectively. The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued 
capital adequacy guidelines pursuant to which it assesses the 

adequacy of capital in examining and supervising a BHC and in 
analyzing applications to it un
der the BHCA of 1956, as amended. 
These guidelines include quantita
tive measures that assign risk 
weightings to assets and off-bala
nce sheet items, as well as define 
and set minimum regulatory capital requirements. The Basel III 

Final Rule was effective for the Bancorp on January 1, 2015, subject 

to phase-in periods for certain of its components and other 

provisions. It revised the quantitati
ve measures used to define risk 
weightings to assets and off-balance sheet items and also defined the 
regulatory capital components and 
set minimum regulatory capital requirements. The minimum capital 
ratios established under the 
Basel III Final Rule are Common equity Tier 1 capital of at least 

4.5% (CET1 ratio), Tier I capital (core capital) of at least 6% of risk-

weighted assets (Tier I risk-based capital ratio), Total regulatory 

capital (Tier I plus Tier II capital) of at least 8% of risk-weighted 

assets (Total risk-based capital ratio) and Tier I capital of at least 4% 

of adjusted quarterly average assets (Tier I leverage ratio). Failure to 
meet the minimum capital requiremen
ts can initiate certain actions 
by regulators that could have a direct material effect on the 

Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bancorp.   
The Basel III Final Rule provided for certain banks, including 
the Bancorp, to opt out of includ
ing AOCI in regulatory capital and 
also retained the treatment of residential mortgage exposures 

consistent with the current Basel I capital rules. The Bancorp made 
a one-time permanent election to not include AOCI in regulatory 
capital in the March 31, 2015 FFIEC 031 and FR Y-9C filings. The 
Basel III Final Rule phases out the inclusion of certain TruPS as a 
component of Tier I capital. Under these provisions, these TruPS 

would qualify as a component of Tier II capital. At December 31, 

2015, the Bancorp™s Tier I capital included $13 million of TruPS 

representing approximately 1 bp of risk-weighted assets. Tier II 

capital consists principally of term
 subordinated debt and, subject to 
limitations, allowances for credit losses.  
The Bancorp™s assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-
balance sheet items are assigned to one of several broad risk 
categories according to the Standardized Approach for risk-

weighting assets as defined in the Basel III Final Rule. The aggregate 

dollar value of the amount of each category is multiplied by the 

associated risk weighting. The resu
lting weighted values from each 
of the risk categories in sum is the total risk-weighted assets. 

Quarterly average assets for this
 purpose do not include goodwill 
and any other intangible assets an
d other investments that the FRB 
determines should be deducted from Tier I capital.   
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued 
capital adequacy guidelines for banking subsidiaries substantially 

similar to those adopted for BHCs, as described previously. In 

addition, the U.S. banking agencies
 have issued substantially similar 
regulations to implement the system of prompt corrective action 

established by Section 38 of the FDIA. Under the regulations, a 

bank generally shall be deemed to be well-capitalized if it has a 
CET1 ratio of 6.5% or more, a Tier I risk-based capital ratio of 8% 
or more, a Total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or more, a Tier I 

leverage ratio of 5% or more and is not subject to any written 

capital order or directive. If an 
institution becomes undercapitalized, 
it would become subject to significant additional oversight, 

regulations and requirements as mandated by the FDIA.  
The Bancorp and its banking subsidiary, Fifth Third Bank, had 
a CET1 capital ratio above the we
ll-capitalized level at December 
31, 2015 and Tier I risk-based capit
al, Total risk-based capital and 
Tier I leverage ratios above the 
well-capitalized levels at December 
31, 2015 and 2014. To continue to qualify for financial holding 

company status pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, 

the Bancorp™s banking subsidiary must, among other things, 

maintain ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ capital ratios. 
                The following table presents capital and risk-based capital and 
leverage ratios for the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary at D
ecember 31:                    2015 
        2014 
       Basel III 
Transitional(a)
       Basel I(b)
   ($ in millions)
  Amount  Ratio        Amount
 Ratio   CET1 capital (to risk-weighted assets):
                        Fifth Third Bancorp
 $ 11,917 
 9.82 
%     N/AN/A      Fifth Third Bank
   14,216 
 11.92 
      N/AN/A Tier I risk-based capital (to risk-weighted assets):
              Fifth Third Bancorp
  13,260 
 10.93 
    $ 12,764 
 10.83 
%     Fifth Third Bank 
  14,216 
 11.92 
       13,760 
 11.85 
 Total risk-based capital (to risk-weighted assets):
              Fifth Third Bancorp
   17,134 
 14.13 
       16,895 
 14.33 
      Fifth Third Bank
   15,642 
 13.12 
       15,213 
 13.10 
 Tier I leverage (to average assets):
               Fifth Third Bancorp
   13,260 
 9.54 
       12,764 
 9.66 
      Fifth Third Bank
   14,216 
 10.43 
       13,760 
 10.58 
 (a) Under the U.S. banking agencies™ Basel III Final Rule, assets and 
credit equivalent amounts of 
off-balance sheet exposures are 
calculated according to the standardized approach for risk-weighted 
assets. The resulting weighted values are added togeth
er resulting in the total risk-weighted assets.  
(b) These capital amounts and ratios were calculated under the Superv
isory Agencies general risk-based capital rules (Basel I) whic
h were in effect prior to January 1, 2015.  
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  167  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 29. PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 Condensed Statements of Income (Parent Company Only)
              For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
   2015 
 2014 
 2013  
Income                Dividends from subsidiaries:
                  Consolidated nonbank subsidiaries
(a)   $1,040 
  1,094 
  859 
  Interest on loans to subsidiaries
    15   14 
  14 
  Total income
    1,055 
  1,108 
  873 
  Expenses
                Interest    178   163 
  178 
  Other    22 
  17 
  36 
  Total expenses
    200 
  180 
  214 
  Income Before Income Taxes and Change in
 Undistributed Earnings of Subsidiaries
   855 
  928 
  659 
  Applicable income tax benefit
    69 
  62 
  74 
  Income Before Change in Undist
ributed Earnings of Subsidiaries
    924 
  990 
  733 
  Change in undistributed earnings
    788 
  491 
  1,103 
  Net Income
    $1,712   1,481 
  1,836 
  Other Comprehensive Income
    -   -   -   Comprehensive Income Attributable to Bancorp
    $1,712   1,481 
  1,836 
  (a)  The Bancorp™s indirect banking subsidiary paid dividends to 
the Bancorp™s direct nonbank subsidiary holding company of 
$1.0 billion
, $1.1 billion and $859 million for the years ended 
December 31,
 2015
, 2014 and 2013, respectively. 
           Condensed Balance Sheets (Parent Company Only)
          As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
 2015  
2014 
 Assets          Cash 
 $ 128 
   - 
  Short-term investments 
 3,728 
  3,189 
  Loans to subsidiaries: 
           Nonbank subsidiaries 
 982 
  984 
  Total loans to subsidiaries 
 982 
  984 
  Investment in subsidiaries 
           Nonbank subsidiaries 
 17,831   17,186 
  Total investment in subsidiaries 
 17,831   17,186 
  Goodwill 
 80 
  80 
  Other assets 
 432 
  451 
  Total Assets
  $23,181 
  21,890 
  Liabilities          Other short-term borrowings 
 $404 
  426 
  Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
 433 
  405 
  Long-term debt (external) 
 6,474 
  5,394 
  Total Liabilities
  $7,311 
  6,225 
  Shareholders' Equity
          Common stock 
 $2,051 
  2,051 
  Preferred stock  1,331 
  1,331 
  Capital surplus 
 2,666 
  2,646 
  Retained earnings 
 12,358   11,141 
  Accumulated other comprehensive income 
 197   429 
  Treasury stock 
 (2,764)
  (1,972)
  Noncontrolling interests 
 31   39 
  Total Equity
  15,870   15,665 
  Total Liabilities and Equity
  $23,181 
  21,890 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  168  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Condensed Statements of Cash Flows (Parent Company Only)
            For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
 2015 
 2014 
 2013  
Operating Activities
              Net income 
 $1,712   1,481 
  1,836 
  Adjustments to reconcile net income to net 
cash provided by operating activities: 
               Benefit from deferred income taxes 
 (4)  (1)
  (1)
    Net change in undistributed earnings 
 (788)  (491)
  (1,103)
  Net change in: 
               Other assets 
 (19)  8   13 
    Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
 32 
  (40)
  (28)
  Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
  933 
  957 
  717 
  Investing Activities
              Net change in: 
               Short-term investments 
 (539)  (684)
  976 
    Loans to subsidiaries 
 2   (10)
  47 
  Net Cash (Used in) Provided by Investing Activities
  (537)  (694)
  1,023 
  Financing Activities
              Net change in other short-term borrowings 
 (22)  115 
  (255)
  Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 
 1,099 
  499 
  750 
  Repayment of long-term debt 
 -   -   (1,500)
  Dividends paid on common shares 
 (422)  (423)
  (393)
  Dividends paid on preferred shares 
 (75)  (67)
  (37)
  Issuance of preferred shares 
 -   297 
  1,034 
  Repurchase of treasury shares and related forward contract 
 (850)  (654)
  (1,320)
  Other, net 
 2   (30)
  (19)
  Net Cash Used in Financing Activities
  (268)  (263)
  (1,740)
  Increase in Cash
  128   -   -   Cash at Beginning of Period
  -   -   -   Cash at End of Period
  $128   -   -    30. BUSINESS SEGMENTS 
The Bancorp reports on four business segments: Commercial 
Banking, Branch Banking, C
onsumer Lending and Investment 
Advisors. Results of the Bancorp™s business segments are presented 

based on its management structure and management accounting 

practices. The structure and accounti
ng practices are specific to the 
Bancorp; therefore, the financial results of the Bancorp™s business 
segments are not necessarily comp
arable with similar information 
for other financial institutions. The Bancorp refines its 

methodologies from time to time as management™s accounting 

practices and businesses change. 
The Bancorp manages interest rate risk centrally at the 
corporate level by employing an FTP methodology. This 

methodology insulates the business segments from interest rate 
volatility, enabling them to focus 
on serving customers through loan 
originations and deposit taking
. The FTP system assigns charge 
rates and credit rates to classes of assets and liabilities, respectively, 

based on expected duration and the U.S. swap curve. Matching 

duration allocates interest income and interest expense to each 

segment so its resulting net interest income is insulated from 

interest rate risk. In a rising rate
 environment, the Bancorp benefits 
from the widening spread between deposit costs and wholesale 
funding costs. However, the Bancorp™s FTP system credits this 
benefit to deposit-providing businesses, such as Branch Banking 

and Investment Advisors, on a duration-adjusted basis. The net 

impact of the FTP methodology is captured in General Corporate 

and Other. The Bancorp adjusts the FTP charge and credit rates as 
dictated by changes in interest rates for various interest-earning 

assets and interest-bearing liabilities and by the review of the 
estimated durations for the indeterm
inate-lived deposits. The credit 
rate provided for demand deposit accounts is reviewed annually 

based upon the account type, its estimated duration and the 

corresponding fed funds, U.S. swap curve or swap rate. The credit 
rates for several deposit products were reset January 1, 2015 to 
reflect the current market rates 
and updated market assumptions. 
These rates were generally lower than those in place during 2014, 

thus net interest income for deposit-providing businesses was 

negatively impacted during 2015.  
The business segments are charged provision expense based on 
the actual net charge-offs experi
enced by the loans and leases 
owned by each segment. Provision expense attributable to loan and 

lease growth and changes in ALLL 
factors are captured in General 
Corporate and Other. The financial 
results of the business segments 
include allocations for shared serv
ices and headquarters expenses. 
Additionally, the business segments
 form synergies by taking 
advantage of cross-sell opportuniti
es and when funding operations 
by accessing the capital markets as a collective unit.  
The results of operations and 
financial position for the years 
ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 were adjusted to reflect the 

transfer of certain customers and Bancorp employees from 

Commercial Banking to Branch Bankin
g, effective January 1, 2015. 
In addition, the balances for 
the years ended December 31, 2014 
and 2013 were adjusted to reflect 
a change in internal allocation 
methodology. 
The following is a description of each of the Bancorp™s 
business segments, and the products and services they provide to 

their respective client bases. 
Commercial Banking
 offers credit intermediation, cash 
management and financial services to large and middle-market 

businesses and government and professional customers. In addition 

to the traditional lending and 
depository offerings, Commercial 
Banking products and services 
include global cash management, 
foreign exchange and internation
al trade finance, derivatives and 
capital markets services, asset-base
d lending, real estate finance, 
public finance, commercial leasing and syndicated finance.  
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  169  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Branch Banking
 provides a full range of deposit and loan and 
lease products to individuals 
and small businesses through 1,254 
full-service banking centers. Branch
 Banking offers depository and 
loan products, such as checking and savings accounts, home equity 

loans and lines of credit, credit 
cards and loans for automobiles and 
other personal financing needs, as well as products designed to meet 
the specific needs of small businesses, including cash management 
services.  Consumer Lending
 includes the Bancorp™s residential 
mortgage, home equity, automobile
 and other indirect lending 
activities. Direct lending activities include the origination, retention 

and servicing of residential mortgage and home equity loans or lines 

of credit, sales and securitizations of those loans, pools of loans or 

lines of credit, and all associated hedging activities. Indirect lending 
activities include extending loans to consumers through 
correspondent lenders and automobile dealers.  
Investment Advisors
 provides a full range of investment 
alternatives for individuals, companies and not-for-profit 

organizations. Investment Advisors is made up of four main 

businesses: FTS, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the 

Bancorp; ClearArc Capital, Inc., an indirect wholly-owned 

subsidiary of the Bancorp; Fifth Third Private Bank; and Fifth Third 
Institutional Services. FTS offers full service retail brokerage 
services to individual clients and broker dealer services to the 

institutional marketplace. ClearArc Capital, Inc. provides asset 

management services. Fifth Third Private Bank offers holistic 

strategies to affluent clients in wealth planning, investing, insurance 

and wealth protection. Fifth Third Institutional Services provides 

advisory services for institutional clients including states and 

municipalities.                          Results of operations and assets by business segment for the years ended December 31 are:
                                              General
           Commercial
  Branch    Consumer
 Investment  
Corporate 
      2015 ($ in millions)
   Banking 
  Banking
   Lending
 Advisors and Other 
Eliminations
  Total Net interest income  
$ 1,625 
 1,555 
 249 
 128 
 (24)
 - 3,533
Provision for loan and lease losses
    239 
 159 
 45 
 3 
 (50)
 - 396
Net interest income after provision for loan and lease losses
    1,386 
 1,396 
 204 
 125 
 26 
 - 3,137
Total noninterest income
    853 
(c) 652 
 (b) 407 
 418 
 822 
 (149)
(a) 3,003
Total noninterest expense
    1,402 
 1,567 
 436 
 455 
 64 
 (149)
 3,775
Income before income taxes     837 
 481 
 175 
 88 
 784 
 - 2,365
Applicable income tax expense
    98 
 170 
 63 
 30 
 298 
 - 659
Net income
    739 
 311 
 112 
 58 
 486 
 - 1,706
Less: Net income attributab
le to noncontrolling interests
    - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (6)
 - (6)
Net income attributable to Bancorp
    739 
 311 
 112 
 58 
 492 
 - 1,712
Dividends on preferred stock 
    - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 75 
 - 75
Net income available to common shareholders 
 $ 739 
 311 
 112 
 58 
 417 
 - 1,637
Total goodwill
 $ 613 
 1,655 
 - 
 148 
 - 
 - 2,416
Total assets
 $ 58,166 
 53,587 
 22,656 
 9,938 
 (3,265)
 - 141,082
(a) Revenue sharing agreements between Investment Advisors and Branch
 Banking are eliminated in the Consolidated Statements of Inco
me. 
(b) Includes an impairment charge of 
$109
 for branches and land. For more information refer to Note 7 and Note 27. 
(c) Includes an impairment charge of 
$36
 for operating lease equipment. For more 
information refer to Note 8 and Note 27. 
                              General
           Commercial
Branch  
  Consumer
 Investment  
Corporate 
      2014 ($ in millions)
   Banking 
Banking 
  Lending
 Advisors and Other 
Eliminations
  Total Net interest income  
$ 1,627 
 1,573 
 258 
 121 
 - 
 - 
 3,579 
Provision for loan and lease losses 
   235 
 181 
 156 
 3 
 (260)
 - 
 315 
Net interest income after provision for loan and lease losses 
   1,392 
 1,392 
 102 
 118 
 260 
 - 
 3,264 
Total noninterest income 
   880 
 726 
(b) 350 
 410 
 253 
 (146)
(a) 2,473 
Total noninterest expense 
   1,317 
 1,554 
 554 
 445 
 (15)
 (146)
 3,709 
Income (loss) before income taxes  
   955 
 564 
 (102)
 83 
 528 
 - 
 2,028 
Applicable income tax expense (benefit) 
   155 
 199 
 (36)
 29 
 198 
 - 
 545 
Net income (loss) 
   800 
 365 
 (66)
 54 
 330 
 - 
 1,483 
Less: Net income attributab
le to noncontrolling interests 
   - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 2 
 - 
 2 
Net income (loss) attributable to Bancorp 
   800 
 365 
 (66)
 54 
 328 
 - 
 1,481 
Dividends on preferred stock  
   - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 67 
 - 
 67 
Net income (loss) available to common shareholders  
$ 800 
 365 
 (66)
 54 
 261 
 - 
 1,414 
Total goodwill 
$ 613 
 1,655 
 - 
 148 
 - 
 - 
 2,416 
Total assets 
$ 56,306 
 51,462 
 22,567 
 10,443 
 (2,072)
 - 
 138,706 
(a) Revenue sharing agreements between Investment Advisors and Branch
 Banking are eliminated in the Consolidated Statements of Inco
me.
(b) Includes an impairment charge of $20 for branches and la
nd. For more information refer to Note 7 and Note 27.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  170  Fifth Third Bancorp 
               General
           Commercial
Branch  
  Consumer
 Investment  
Corporate 
      2013 ($ in millions)
   Banking 
Banking 
  Lending
 Advisors and Other 
Eliminations
  Total Net interest income 
$ 1,569 
 1,380 
 312 
 154 
 146 
 - 3,561
Provision for loan and lease losses 
   195 
 211 
 93 
 2 
 (272)
 - 229
Net interest income after provision for loan and lease losses  
   1,374 
 1,169 
 219 
 152 
 418 
 - 3,332
Total noninterest income 
   811 
 745 
(b)
 755 
 406 
 654 
 (144)
(a)
 3,227
Total noninterest expense 
   1,230 
 1,576 
 685 
 453 
 161 
 (144)
 3,961
Income before income taxes  
   955 
 338 
 289 
 105 
 911 
 - 2,598
Applicable income tax expense 
   157 
 119 
 102 
 37 
 357 
 - 772
Net income 
   798 
 219 
 187 
 68 
 554 
 - 1,826
Less: Net income attributab
le to noncontrolling interests 
   - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (10)
 - (10)
Net income attributable to Bancorp 
   798 
 219 
 187 
 68 
 564 
 - 1,836
Dividends on preferred stock  
   - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 37 
 - 37
Net income available to common shareholders  
$ 798 
 219 
 187 
 68 
 527 
 - 1,799
Total goodwill 
$ 613 
 1,655 
 - 
 148 
 - 
 - 2,416
Total assets 
$ 54,495 
 47,788 
 22,624 
 10,711 
 (5,175)
 - 130,443
(a) Revenue sharing agreements between Investment Advisors and Branch
 Banking are eliminated in the Consolidated Statements of Inco
me. 
(b) Includes an impairment charge of $6 for branches and la
nd. For more information refer to Note 7 and Note 27. 
 31. SUBSEQUENT EVENT 
On January 29, 2016, the Bancorp closed the previously announced 
sale of its retail operations, including retail accounts, certain private 

banking deposits and related loan relationships in the St. Louis MSA 

to Great Southern Bank. The sale included loans, premises and 
equipment and deposits with aggregate carrying amounts of 
approximately $158 million, $18 million and $228 million, 

respectively. The Bancorp recorded a gain on the sale of 

approximately $8 million that will 
be recognized in the Bancorp™s 
first quarter 2016 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q. 
  171  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 UNITED STATES
 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 Washington, D.C. 20549
 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 
15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
 EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015
 Commission file number 001-33653
  Incorporated in the State of Ohio 
 I.R.S. Employer Identification No. 31-0854434 
 Address: 38 Fountain Square Plaza 
 Cincinnati, Ohio 45263 
 Telephone: (800) 972-3030  
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
   Title of each class:   Name of each exchange 
on which registered: 
Common Stock, Without Par Value   
The NASDAQ Stock Market 
LLC 
Depositary Shares Representing a 
1/1000th Ownership Interest in a 
Share of 6.625% Fixed-to-
Floating Rate Non-Cumulative 
Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 
I   
The NASDAQ Stock Market 
LLC 
Indicate by checkmark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned 
issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  
Yes:  No:  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file 
reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes: 
 No:   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all 
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the 

Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months 

(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file 

such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements 

for the past 90 days. Yes: 
 No: 
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted 
electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every 

Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant 

to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during 

the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 

registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes: 
 No:   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant 
to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not 

contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of 

registrant™s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information 

statements incorporated by referen
ce in Part III of this Form 10-K 
or any amendment to this Form 10-K. 
  
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large 

accelerated filer, an accelerated file
r, a non-accelerated filer, or a 
smaller reporting company. See definitions of ﬁlarge accelerated 
filer,ﬂ ﬁaccelerated filerﬂ and ﬁsmaller reporting companyﬂ in 
Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.  

Large accelerated filer 
 Accelerated filer 
 Non-accelerated 
filer  (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) Smaller 
reporting company 
   
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company 

(as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes:  No:   There were 783,231,128 shares of the Bancorp™s Common Stock, 
without par value, outstanding as of January 31, 2016. The 
Aggregate Market Value of the Voting Stock held by non-

affiliates of the Bancorp was $16,277,829,299 as of June 30, 

2015.  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
 This report incorporates into a single document the requirements 
of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with 
respect to annual reports on Form 10-K and annual reports to 
shareholders. The Bancorp™s Proxy Statement for the 2016 

Annual Meeting of Shareholders is incorporated by reference into 

Part III of this report.  
Only those sections of this 2015 Annual Report to Shareholders 
that are specified in this Cross Reference Index constitute part of 

the Registrant™s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 

2015. No other information contained in this 2015 Annual Report 

to Shareholders shall be deemed to constitute any part of this 

Form 10-K nor shall any such information be incorporated into 

the Form 10-K and shall not be deemed ﬁfiledﬂ as part of the 

Registrant™s Form 10-K.  
10-K Cross Reference Index 
 PART I
 Item 1.
 Business   16-20, 172-178  
  Employees   40  
  Segment Information   42-49, 168-170 

  Average Balance Sheets   36  

  Analysis of Net Interest Income and Net Interest 
Income Changes   35-37  
  Investment Securities Portfolio   53-54, 101-102  

  Loan and Lease Portfolio   52-53, 103-104  

  Risk Elements of Loan and Lease Portfolio   57-72  
  Deposits   55-56  
  Return on Equity and Assets   15  

  Short-term Borrowings   56, 128  
Item 1A.
 Risk Factors   26-34  
Item 1B.
 Unresolved Staff Comments   None  
Item 2.
 Properties   179  
Item 3.
 Legal Proceedings   136-137  
Item 4.
 Mine Safety Disclosures     N/A  
  Executive Officers of the Bancorp   179  
PART II
 Item 5.
  Market for Registrant™s Common Equity, Related 
Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity 
Securities   180  
Item 6.
 Selected Financial Data   15  
Item 7.
  Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations   15-81  
Item 7A.
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market 
Risk   72-75  
Item 8.
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   84-170  
Item 9.
  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on 
Accounting and Financial Disclosure   None  
Item 9A.
 Controls and Procedures   82  
Item 9B.
 Other Information   None  
PART III
 Item 10.
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate 
Governance   182  
Item 11.
 Executive Compensation   182  
Item 12.
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and 
Management and Related Stockholder Matters   149-152, 182  
Item 13.
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and 
Director Independence   182  
Item 14.
 Principal Accounting Fees and Services   182  
  ` 172  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 PART IV
 Item 15.
   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules     182-185  
SIGNATURES
     186  
 PART I 
 ITEM 1.
 BUSINESS 
 General Information 
 Fifth Third Bancorp (the ﬁBancorpﬂ), an Ohio corporation 
organized in 1975, is a bank holding company (ﬁBHCﬂ) as 

defined by the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended 

(the ﬁBHCAﬂ), and is registered as such with the Board of 

Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the ﬁFRBﬂ). The 

Bancorp™s principal office is located in Cincinnati, Ohio.  
The Bancorp™s subsidiaries provide a wide range of financial 
products and services to the retail, commercial, financial, 

governmental, educational and medical sectors, including a wide 

variety of checking, savings and money market accounts, and 

credit products such as credit cards, installment loans, mortgage 

loans and leases. Fifth Third Bank has deposit insurance provided 

by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the ﬁFDICﬂ) 
through the Deposit Insurance Fund. Refer to Exhibit 21 filed as 
an attachment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a list of 

subsidiaries of the Bancorp as of December 31, 2015.  
The Bancorp derives the majority of its revenues from the 
U.S. Revenue from foreign countries and external customers 

domiciled in foreign countries is immaterial to the Bancorp™s 

Consolidated Financial Statements.  
Additional information regarding the Bancorp™s businesses is 
included in Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 

Condition and Results of Operations.  
 Availability of Financial Information
 The Bancorp files reports with the SEC. Those reports include the 
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, 
current reports on Form 8-K and proxy statements, as well as any 
amendments to those reports. The public may read and copy any 

materials the Bancorp files with
 the SEC at the SEC™s Public 
Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 

20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the 

Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 

The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy 

and information statements and other information regarding 

issuers that file electronically 
with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The 
Bancorp™s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 

10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and 

amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 

13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are accessible at no cost on 

the Bancorp™s web site at https://www.53.com on a same day 

basis after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the 
SEC.  Competition  The Bancorp competes for deposits, loans and other banking 
services in its principal geographic markets as well as in selected 

national markets as opportunities arise. In addition to the 

challenge of attracting and retaining customers for traditional 

banking services, the Bancorp™s competitors include securities 

dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and 

insurance companies. These competitors, with focused products 

targeted at highly profitable customer segments, compete across 

geographic boundaries and provide customers increasing access 

to meaningful alternatives to banking services in nearly all  

 significant products. The increasingly competitive environment is 
a result primarily of changes in regulation, changes in technology, 

product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of 

consolidation among financial service providers. These 

competitive trends are likely to continue.  
 Acquisitions 
 The Bancorp™s strategy for growth includes strengthening its 
presence in core markets, expanding into contiguous markets and 

broadening its product offerings while taking into account the 

integration and other risks of growth. The Bancorp evaluates 

strategic acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence 

activities in connection with possi
ble transactions. As a result, 
discussions, and in some cases, negotiations may take place and 

future acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may 

occur. These typically involve the payment of a premium over 

book value and current market price, and therefore, some dilution 

of book value and net income per share may occur with any 

future transactions.  
 Regulation and Supervision 
 In addition to the generally applicable state and federal laws 
governing businesses and employers, the Bancorp and its banking 
subsidiary are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state 

laws and regulations applicable to financial institutions and their 

parent companies. Virtually all aspects of the business of the 

Bancorp and its banking subsidiary are subject to specific 

requirements or restrictions and general regulatory oversight. The 

principal objectives of state and federal banking laws and 

regulations and the supervision, regulation and examination of 

banks and their parent companies (such as the Bancorp) by bank 

regulatory agencies are the maintenance of the safety and 

soundness of financial institutions, maintenance of the federal 

deposit insurance system and the protection of consumers or 

classes of consumers, rather than the specific protection of 

shareholders of a bank or the parent company of a bank. The 

Bancorp and its subsidiaries are subject to an extensive regulatory 
framework of complex and comprehensive federal and state laws 
and regulations addressing the provision of banking and other 

financial services and other aspects of the Bancorp™s businesses 

and operations. Regulation and regulatory oversight have 

increased significantly over the past five years, primarily as a 

result of the passage of The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and 

Consumer Protection Act (the ﬁDFAﬂ). The DFA imposes 

regulatory requirements and oversight over banks and other 

financial institutions in a number of ways, among which are 

(i) creating the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (the 

ﬁCFPBﬂ)  to regulate consumer financial products and services; 

(ii) creating the Financial Stability Oversight Council to identify 

and impose additional regulatory oversight on large financial 

firms; (iii) granting orderly liquidation authority to the FDIC for 

the liquidation of financial corporations that pose a risk to the 
financial system of the U.S.; (iv) requiring financial institutions to 
draft a resolution plan that contemplates the dissolution of the 

enterprise and submit that resolution plan to both the Federal 

Reserve and the FDIC; (v) limiting debit card interchange fees; 

(vi) adopting certain changes to shareholder rights and 

responsibilities, including a shareholder ﬁsay on payﬂ vote on 

executive compensation; (vii) strengthening the SEC's powers to 

regulate securities markets; (viii) regulating OTC derivative 

markets; (ix) restricting variable-rate lending by requiring the 

ability to repay to be determined for variable-rate loans by using 

the maximum rate that will apply during the first five years of a 
  173  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 variable-rate loan term, and making more loans subject to 
provisions for higher cost loans, new disclosures, and certain 

other revisions; (x) changing the base upon which the deposit 

insurance assessment is assessed from deposits to, substantially, 

average consolidated assets minus equity; and (xi) amending the 

Truth in Lending Act with respect to mortgage originations, 

including originator compensation, minimum repayment 

standards, and prepayment considerations. To the extent the 

following material describes statutory or regulatory provisions, it 

is qualified in its entirety by reference to the particular statute or 

regulation. In addition, due to the volume of regulations required 
by the DFA, not all proposed or final regulations that may have 
an impact on the Bancorp or its banking subsidiary are 

necessarily discussed.  

 
Regulators  
The Bancorp and/or its banking subsidiary are subject to 

regulation and supervision primarily by the FRB, the CFPB and 

the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions (the ﬁDivisionﬂ) and 

additionally by certain other functional regulators and self-

regulatory organizations. The Bancorp is also subject to 

regulation by the SEC by virtue of its status as a public company 

and due to the nature of some of its businesses.  The Bancorp™s 

banking subsidiary is subject to regulation by the FDIC, which 

insures the bank™s deposits as permitted by law.   
The federal and state laws and regulations that are applicable 
to banks and to BHCs regulate, among other matters, the scope of 

their business, their activities, their investments, their capital and 

liquidity levels, their reserves against deposits, the timing of the 

availability of deposited funds, the amount of loans to individual 

and related borrowers and the nature, the amount of and collateral 

for certain loans, and the amount of interest that may be charged 

on loans as applicable. Various federal and state consumer laws 

and regulations also affect the services provided to consumers.  
The Bancorp and/or its banking subsidiary are required to 
file various reports with, and is subject to examination by 

regulators, including the FRB and the Division. The FRB, the 

Division and the CFPB have the authority to issue orders for 

BHCs and/or banks to cease and desist from certain banking 

practices and violations of conditions imposed by, or violations of 
agreements with, the FRB, the Division and the CFPB. Certain of 
the Bancorp™s and/or its banking subsidiary regulators are also 

empowered to assess civil money penalties against companies or 

individuals in certain situations, such as when there is a violation 

of a law or regulation. Applicable state and federal laws also 

grant certain regulators the authority to impose additional 

requirements and restrictions on the activities of the Bancorp and 

or its banking subsidiary and, in some situations, the imposition 

of such additional requirements and restrictions will not be 

publicly available information.  

 
Acquisitions 

The BHCA requires the prior approval of the FRB for a BHC to 

acquire substantially all the assets of a bank or to acquire direct or 

indirect ownership or control of more than 5% of any class of the 
voting shares of any bank, BHC or
 savings association, or to 
increase any such non-majority ownership or control of any bank, 

BHC or savings association, or to merge or consolidate with any 

BHC.  
The BHCA prohibits a BHC from acquiring a direct or 
indirect interest in or control of more than 5% of any class of the 

voting shares of a company that is not a bank or a BHC and from 

engaging directly or indirectly in activities other than those of 

banking, managing or controlling banks or furnishing services to 
its banking subsidiaries, except that it may engage in and may 
own shares of companies engaged in certain activities the FRB 

has determined to be so closely related to banking or managing or 

controlling banks as to be proper incident thereto. 

 
Financial Holding Companies  

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (ﬁGLBAﬂ) permits a 

qualifying BHC to become a financial holding company (ﬁFHCﬂ) 

and thereby to engage directly or indirectly in a broader range of 

activities than those permitted for a BHC under the BHCA. 

Permitted activities for a FHC include securities underwriting and 
dealing, insurance underwriting and brokerage, merchant banking 
and other activities that are declared by the FRB, in cooperation 

with the Treasury Department, to be ﬁfinancial in nature or 

incidental theretoﬂ or are declared by the FRB unilaterally to be 

ﬁcomplementaryﬂ to financial activities. In addition, a FHC is 

allowed to conduct permissible new financial activities or acquire 

permissible non-bank financial companies with after-the-fact 

notice to the FRB. A BHC may elect to become a FHC if each of 

its banking subsidiaries is well capitalized, is well managed and 

has at least a ﬁSatisfactoryﬂ rating under the Community 

Reinvestment Act (ﬁCRAﬂ). The DFA also extended the well 

capitalized and well managed requirement to the BHC. In 2000, 

the Bancorp elected and qualified for FHC status under the 

GLBA. To maintain FHC status, a holding company must 
continue to meet certain requirements. The failure to meet such 
requirements could result in material restrictions on the activities 

of the FHC and may also adversely affect the FHC™s ability to 

enter into certain transactions or obtain necessary approvals in 

connection therewith, as well as loss of FHC status. If restrictions 

are imposed on the activities of an FHC, such information may 

not necessarily be available to the public.  

 
Dividends 

The Bancorp depends in part upon dividends received from its 

direct and indirect subsidiaries, including its indirect banking 

subsidiary, to fund its activities, including the payment of 

dividends. The Bancorp and its banking subsidiary are subject to 

various federal and state restrictions on their ability to pay 

dividends. The FRB has authority to prohibit BHCs from paying 
dividends if such payment is deemed to be an unsafe or unsound 
practice. The FRB has indicated generally that it may be an 

unsafe or unsound practice for BHCs to pay dividends unless a 

BHC™s net income is sufficient to fund the dividends and the 

expected rate of earnings retention is consistent with the 

organization™s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial 

condition. The ability to pay dividends may be further limited by 

provisions of the DFA and implanting regulations (see 

Systematically Significant Companies and Capital).   

 
Source of Strength 

Under long-standing FRB policy and now as codified in the DFA, 

a BHC is expected to act as a source of financial and managerial 

strength to each of its banking subsidiaries and to commit 

resources to their support.  This support may be required at times 
when the BHC may not have the resources to provide it.   
 FDIC Assessments  

As contemplated by the DFA the FDIC has revised the 

framework by which insured depository institutions with more 

than $10 billion in assets (ﬁlarg
e IDIsﬂ) are assessed for purposes 
of payments to the Deposit Insurance Fund (the ﬁDIFﬂ). The final 

rule implementing revisions to the assessment system took effect 

for the quarter beginning April 1, 2011.  
` 174  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Prior to the passage of the DFA, a large IDI™s DIF premiums 
principally were based on the size of an IDI™s domestic deposit 

base. The DFA changed the assessment base from a large IDI™s 

domestic deposit base to its total assets less tangible equity. In 

addition to potentially greatly increasing the size of a large IDI™s 

assessment base, the expansion of the assessment base affords the 

FDIC much greater flexibility to vary its assessment system based 
upon the different asset classes that large IDIs normally hold on 
their balance sheets.  
To implement this provision, the FDIC created an 
assessment scheme vastly different from the deposit-based 

system. Under the new system, large IDIs are assessed under a 

complex ﬁscorecardﬂ methodology that seeks to capture both the 

probability that an individual large IDI will fail and the 

magnitude of the impact on the DIF if such a failure occurs.  

 
Transactions with Affiliates 

Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, restrict 

transactions between a bank and its affiliates (as defined in 

Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act), including a 

parent BHC. The Bancorp™s banking subsidiary is subject to 

certain restrictions, including but not limited to restrictions on 
loans to its affiliates, on investments in the stock or securities 
thereof, on the taking of such stock or securities as collateral for 

loans to any borrower, and on the issuance of a guarantee or letter 

of credit on their behalf. Among other things, these restrictions 

limit the amount of such transactions, require collateral in 

prescribed amounts for extensions of credit, prohibit the purchase 

of low quality assets and require that the terms of such 

transactions be substantially equi
valent to terms of comparable 
transactions with non-affiliates. Generally, the Bancorp™s banking 

subsidiary is limited in its extension of credit to any affiliate to 

10% of the banking subsidiary™s capital stock and surplus and its 

extension of credit to all affiliates to 20% of the banking 

subsidiary™s capital stock and surplus.  

 
Community Reinvestment Act
  The CRA generally requires insured depository institutions, 
including the Bank, to identify the communities they serve and to 

make loans and investments and provide services that meet the 

credit needs of those communities and the CRA requires the FRB 

to evaluate the performance of such depository institutions with 

respect to these CRA obligations. Depository institutions must 

maintain comprehensive records of their CRA activities for 

purposes of these examinations. The FRB must take into account 

the record of performance of depository institutions in meeting 

the credit needs of the entire community served, including low- 

and moderate-income neighborhoods. For purposes of CRA 

examinations, the FRB rates such institutions™ compliance with 

the CRA as "Outstanding," "Satisf
actory," "Needs to Improve" or 
"Substantial Noncompliance." The Bank must be well-

capitalized, well-managed and maintain at least a "Satisfactory" 
CRA rating for the Bancorp to retain its status as a financial 
holding company. Failure to meet these requirements could result 

in the FRB placing limitations or conditions on the Bancorp's 

activities (and the commencement of new activities, including 

merger with or acquisitions of other financial institutions) and 

could ultimately result in the loss of financial holding company 

status. The FRB conducted a regularly scheduled examination 

covering 2011 through 2013 to determine the Bancorp's banking 

subsidiary's compliance with the CRA. Although the FRB has not 

made a final determination, the Bancorp believes that the results 

of such CRA examination may result in a rating of "Needs to 
Improve". If that would occur, such rating would last at least until 
the Bancorp's banking subsidiary's next CRA examination.  

 
Capital Generally 

The FRB has established capital guidelines for BHCs and FHCs. 

The FRB, the Division and the FDIC have also issued regulations 

establishing capital requirements for banks. Failure to meet 
capital requirements could subject the Bancorp and its banking 
subsidiary to a variety of restri
ctions and enforcement actions. In 
addition, as discussed previously, the Bancorp and its banking 

subsidiary must remain well capitalized and well managed for the 

Bancorp to retain its status as a FHC.  

 
Systemically Significant Companies and Capital  

Title I of the DFA creates a ne
w regulatory regime for large 
BHCs. U.S. BHCs with $50 billion or more in total consolidated 

assets, including Fifth Third, are subject to enhanced prudential 

standards and early remediation requirements under Title I. Title I 

of the DFA establishes a broad framework for identifying, 

applying heightened supervision and regulation to, and (as 

necessary) limiting the size and activities of systemically 

significant financial companies.  
The DFA requires the FRB to impose enhanced capital and 
risk-management standards on these firms and mandates the FRB 

to conduct annual stress tests on all BHCs with $50 billion or 

more in assets to determine whether they have adequate capital 

available to absorb losses in baseline, adverse, or severely adverse 

economic conditions. In November 2011, the FRB adopted final 

rules requiring BHCs with $50 billion or more in consolidated 

assets to submit capital plans to the FRB on an annual basis. 

Under the final rules, the FRB annually will evaluate an 

institution™s capital adequacy, internal capital adequacy, 

assessment processes and capital distribution plans such as 

dividend payments and stock repurchases. Banks are also required 

to report certain data to the FRB on a quarterly basis to allow the 

FRB to monitor progress against the approved capital plans.  
The CCAR process is intended to help ensure that BHCs 
have robust, forward-looking capital planning processes that 
account for each company™s unique risks and that permit 

continued operations during times of economic and financial 

stress. The mandatory elements of the capital plan are an 

assessment of the expected uses and sources of capital over a 

nine-quarter planning horizon, a description of all planned capital 

actions over the planning horizon, a discussion of any expected 

changes to the Bancorp™s business plan that are likely to have a 

material impact on its capital adequacy or liquidity, a detailed 

description of the Bancorp™s process for assessing capital 

adequacy and the Bancorp™s capital policy. The stress tests 

require increased involvement by boards of directors in stress 

testing and public disclosure of the results of both the FRB™s 

annual stress tests and a BHC™s annual supervisory stress tests, 

and semi-annual internal stress tests.  
In 2014, the FRB amended its capital planning and stress 
testing rules to, among other things, generally limit a BHC™s 

ability to make quarterly capital distributions Œ that is, dividends 

and share repurchases Œ commencing April 1, 2015 if the amount 

of the bank™s actual cumulative quarterly capital issuances of 

instruments that qualify as regulatory capital are less than the 

bank had indicated in its submitted capital plan as to which it 

received a non-objection from the FRB. For example, if the BHC 

issued a smaller amount of additional common stock than it had 

stated in its capital plan, it would be required to reduce common 

dividends and/or the amount of common stock repurchases so that 
  175  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 the dollar amount of capital distributions, net of the dollar amount 
of additional common stock issued (ﬁnet distributionsﬂ), is no 

greater than the dollar amount of net distributions relating to its 

common stock included in its capital plan, as measured on an 

aggregate basis beginning in the third quarter of the nine-quarter 

planning horizon through the end of the then current quarter. 

However, not raising sufficient amounts of common stock as 

planned would not affect distributions related to Additional Tier I 

Capital instruments and/ or Tier II Capital. These limitations also 

contain several important qualifications and exceptions, including 

that scheduled dividend payments on (as opposed to repurchases 
of) a BHC™s Additional Tier I Capital and Tier II Capital 
instruments are not restricted if the BHC fails to issue a sufficient 

amount of such instruments as planned, as well as provisions for 

certain de minimis excess distributions. The 2014 amendments 

also revised the due date for capital plan and stress testing 

submissions. BHCs with consolidated asset of $50 billion or more 

are required to submit their 2016 capital plan to the FRB by April 

5, 2016. In December of 2010 and revised in June of 2011, the Basel 
Committee on Banking Supervision (the ﬁBasel Committeeﬂ) 

issued Basel III, a global regulatory framework, to enhance 

international capital standards. Ba
sel III is designed to materially 
improve the quality of regulatory capital and introduces a new 

minimum common equity requireme
nt. Basel III also raises the 
minimum capital requirements and introduces capital 
conservation and countercyclical buffers to induce banking 

organizations to hold capital in excess of regulatory minimums. 

In addition, Basel III establishe
s an international leverage 
standard for internationally active banks.  
In July of 2013, U.S. banking regulators approved the final 
enhanced regulatory capital rules (ﬁFinal Capital Rulesﬂ). The 

Final Capital Rules substantially revise the risk-based capital 

requirements applicable to BHCs and their depository institution 

subsidiaries as compared to the previous U.S. risk-based capital 

and leverage ratio rules, and thereby implement certain provisions 

of the DFA.  
The Final Capital Rules, among other things, (i) introduce a 
new capital measure ﬁCommon Equity Tier Iﬂ (ﬁCET1ﬂ), 

(ii) specify that Tier I capital consists of CET1 and ﬁAdditional 
Tier I capitalﬂ instruments meeting specified requirements, 
(iii) define CET1 narrowly by requiring that most adjustments to 

regulatory capital measures be made to CET1 and not to the other 

components of capital and (iv) expand the scope of the 

adjustments as compared to existing regulations. CET1 capital 

consists of common stock instruments that meet the eligibility 

criteria in the final rules, including; common stock and related 

surplus, net of treasury stock and retained earnings, certain 

minority interests and accumulated other comprehensive income 

(ﬁAOCIﬂ), if elected.  
When fully phased-in on January 1, 2019, the Final Capital 
Rules require banking organizations to maintain (i) a minimum 

ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 4.5%, plus a 

2.5% ﬁcapital conservation bufferﬂ (which is added to the 4.5% 

CET1 ratio as that buffer is phased-in, effectively resulting in a 
minimum ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted assets of at least 7.0% 
upon full implementation), (ii) a minimum ratio of Tier I capital 

to risk-weighted assets of at least 6.0%, plus the capital 

conservation buffer (which is added to the 6.0% Tier I capital 

ratio as that buffer is phased-in, effectively resulting in a 

minimum Tier I capital ratio of 8.5% upon full implementation), 

(iii) a minimum ratio of total capital (that is, Tier I plus Tier 2 

capital) to risk-weighted assets of at least 8.0%, plus the capital 

conservation buffer (which is added to the 8.0% total capital ratio 
as that buffer is phased-in, effectively resulting in a minimum 
total capital ratio of 10.5% upon full implementation) and (iv) a 

minimum Tier I leverage ratio of 4.0%, calculated as the ratio of 

Tier I capital to adjusted average consolidated assets.  
Banking institutions with a ratio of CET1 to risk-weighted 
assets above the minimum but below the conservation buffer will 

face limitations on the payment of dividends, common stock 

repurchases and discretionary cash payments to executive officers 

based on the amount of the shortfall.  
The Final Capital Rules provide for a number of deductions 
from and adjustments to CET1. These include, for example, the 
requirement that mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets 
dependent upon future taxable income and significant investments 

in non-consolidated financial entities be deducted from CET1 to 

the extent that any one such category exceeds 10% of CET1 or all 

such categories in the aggregate exceed 15% of CET1. Under the 

Final Capital Rules, the Bancorp made a one-time election (the 

ﬁOpt-out Electionﬂ) to filter certain AOCI components, 

comparable to the treatment under the current general risk-based 

capital rule.  The Final Capital Rules were effective for the Bancorp on 
January 1, 2015, subject to phase-in periods for certain of their 

components and other provisions. Although not currently 

required, Fifth Third Bancorp believes the aforementioned capital  

ratios under the revised Final Capital Rules meet or exceed the 
ratios on a fully phased-in basis. Refer to the Non-GAAP 
Financial Measures section of MD&A for an estimated CET1 

capital ratio under the Basel III Final Rule (fully phased-in) as of 

December 31, 2015.  
In February 2014, the FRB approved a final rule 
implementing several heightened prudential requirements. 

Beginning in 2015, the rules require BHCs with $10 billion or 

more in consolidated assets to establish risk committees and 

require BHCs with $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets 

to comply with enhanced liquidity and overall risk management 

standards, including company-run liquidity stress testing and a 

buffer of highly liquid assets based on projected funding needs 

for various time horizons, including 30, 60, and 90 days. These 

liquidity-related provisions are designed to be complementary, 

and in addition to the Final LCR Rule applicable to BHCs (as 
discussed below). Rules to implement two other components of 
the DFA™s enhanced prudential standards Œsingle-counterparty 

credit limits and early remediation requirementsŒ are still under 

consideration by the FRB. Fifth Third has conducted a self 

evaluation of all the requirements within the enhanced prudential 

standards, and believe the necessary steps have been taken to 

ensure compliance with all requirements regarding liquidity, risk 

exposures, and early remediation.  

 
Liquidity Regulation  

Liquidity risk management and supervision have become 

increasingly important since the financial crisis. On September 3, 

2014, the FRB and other banking regulators adopted final rules 

(ﬁFinal LCR Ruleﬂ) implementing a U.S. version of the Basel 

Committee™s Liquidity Coverage Ratio requirement (ﬁLCRﬂ), 
which is designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains an 
adequate level of unencumbered high-quality liquid assets 

(ﬁHQLAﬂ) equal to the entity™s expected net cash outflow for a 

30-day time horizon (or, if greater, 25% of its expected total cash 

outflow) under an acute liquidity stress scenario. The rules apply 

in modified form to banking organizations, such as the Bancorp, 

having $50 billion or more in total consolidated assets but less 

than $250 billion. The LCR is the ratio of an institution™s stock of 

HQLA (the numerator) over projected net cash out-flows over the 
` 176  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 30-day horizon (the denominator), in each case, as calculated 
pursuant to the Final LCR Rule. Once fully phased-in, a subject 

institution must maintain an LCR equal to at least 100% in order 

to satisfy this regulatory requirement. Only specific classes of 

assets, including U.S. Treasur
ies, other U.S. government 
obligations and agency mortgaged-backed securities, qualify 

under the rule as HQLA, with classes of assets deemed relatively 
less liquid and/or subject to greater 
degree of credit risk subject to 
certain haircuts and caps for purposes of calculating the 

numerator under the Final LCR Rule. The total net cash outflows 

amount is determined under the rule by applying certain 

hypothetical outflow and inflow rates, which reflect certain 

standardized stressed assumptions, against the balances of the 

banking organization™s funding sour
ces, obligations, transactions 
and assets over the 30-day stress period. Inflows that can be 

included to offset outflows are limited to 75% of outflows (which 

effectively means that banking organizations must hold high-

quality liquid assets equal to 25% of outflows even if outflows 

perfectly match inflows over the stress period). The total net cash 

outflow amount for the modified LCR applicable to the Bancorp 

is capped at 70% of the outflow rate that applies to the full LCR.  
The initial compliance date for the modified LCR was 
January 31, 2016, with the requirement fully phased-in by 
January 2017. The LCR is a minimum requirement, and the FRB 

can impose additional liquidity requirements as a supervisory 

matter.  
In addition, the Bancorp is also subject to the liquidity-
related requirements of the enhanced prudential supervision rules 

adopted by the FRB under Section 165 of the DFA, as described 

above. As of December 31, 2015, the Bancorp™s estimated LCR 

complied with the fully phased-in LCR requirements which 

become effective in 2017 as outlined in the final rule. 
In addition to the LCR, the Basel III framework also 
included a second standard, referred to as the net stable funding 

ratio (ﬁNSFRﬂ), which is designed to promote more medium-and 

long-term funding of the assets and activities of banks over a one-

year time horizon. Although the Basel Committee finalized its 
formulation of the NSFR in 2014, the U.S. banking agencies have 
not yet proposed an NSFR for application to U.S. banking 

organizations or addressed the scope of banking organizations to 

which it will apply. The Basel Committee™s final NSFR document 

states that the NSFR applies to internationally active banks, as did 

its final LCR document as to that ratio.  

 
Privacy  
The FRB, FDIC and other bank regulatory agencies have adopted 

final guidelines (the ﬁGuidelines) for safeguarding confidential, 

personal customer information. The Guidelines require each 

financial institution, under the supervision and ongoing oversight 

of its Board of Directors or an 
appropriate committee thereof, to 
create, implement and maintain a comprehensive written 

information security program designed to ensure the security and 
confidentiality of customer information, protect against any 
anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such 

information and protect against unauthorized access to or use of 

such information that could result in substantial harm or 

inconvenience to any customer. The Bancorp has adopted a 

customer information security program that has been approved by 

the Bancorp™s Board of Directors. 
The GLBA requires financial institutions to implement 
policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of nonpublic 

personal information about consumers to non-affiliated third 

parties. In general, the statute requires explanations to consumers 
on policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of such 
nonpublic personal information, and, except as otherwise required 

by law, prohibits disclosing such information except as provided 

in the banking subsidiary™s policies and procedures. The 

Bancorp™s banking subsidiary has implemented a privacy policy.  

 
Anti-Money Laundering 
The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing 
Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism 

Act of 2001 (the ﬁPatriot Actﬂ), designed to deny terrorists and 

others the ability to obtain access to the United States financial 

system, has significant implications for depository institutions, 

brokers, dealers and other businesses involved in the transfer of 

money. The Patriot Act, as implemented by various federal 

regulatory agencies, requires financial institutions, including the 

Bancorp and its subsidiaries, to implement policies and 

procedures or amend existing policies and procedures with 

respect to, among other matters, anti-money laundering, 

compliance, suspicious activity and currency transaction reporting 

and due diligence on customers. The Patriot Act and its 

underlying regulations also permit information sharing for 

counter-terrorist purposes between federal law enforcement 
agencies and financial institutions, as well as among financial 
institutions, subject to certain conditions, and require the FRB 

(and other federal banking agencies) to evaluate the effectiveness 

of an applicant in combating money laundering activities when 

considering applications filed under Section 3 of the BHCA or the 

Bank Merger Act. The Bancorp™s Board has approved policies 

and procedures that are believed to be compliant with the Patriot 

Act.  
 
Exempt Brokerage Activities 

The GLBA amended the federal securities laws to eliminate the 

blanket exceptions that banks traditionally have had from the 

definition of ﬁbrokerﬂ and ﬁdealer.ﬂ The GLBA also required that 

there be certain transactiona
l activities that would not be 
ﬁbrokerageﬂ activities, which banks could effect without having 
to register as a broker. In September 2007, the FRB and SEC 
approved Regulation R to govern bank securities activities. 

Various exemptions permit banks to conduct activities that would 

otherwise constitute brokerage ac
tivities under the 
securities laws. 
Those exemptions include conducting brokerage activities related 

to trust, fiduciary and similar se
rvices, certain services and also 
conducting a de minimis number of riskless principal 

transactions, certain asset-backed transactions and certain 

securities lending transactions. The Bancorp only conducts non-

exempt brokerage activities through its affiliated registered 

broker-dealer.  
 
Financial Stability Oversight Council  

The DFA created the Financial Stability Oversight Council 

(ﬁFSOCﬂ), which is chaired by the Secretary of the Treasury and 
composed of expertise from various financial services regulators. 
The FSOC has responsibility for identifying risks and responding 

to emerging threats to financial stability. The Department of 

Treasury established an assessment schedule for the collection of 

fees from BHCs and foreign banks with at least $50 billion in 

assets to cover the expenses of the Office of Financial Research 

and FSOC. The fees would also cover certain expenses incurred 

by the FDIC. The Bancorp paid approximately $1 million for the 

assessment periods from October 1, 2014 through March 31, 

2016.    177  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The FRB also adopted a final rule to implement an 
assessment provision under the DFA equal to the expense and the 

FRB estimates are necessary or appropriate to supervise and 

regulate BHCs with $50 billion or more in assets. The Bancorp 

paid approximately $3 million for the 2015 annual assessment 

period under the FRB™s rule.  
 
Executive Compensation 
 The DFA provides for a say on pay for shareholders of all public 

companies. Under the DFA, each company must give its 

shareholders the opportunity to vote on the compensation of its 
executives at least once every three years. The DFA also adds 
disclosure and voting requirements for golden parachute 

compensation that is payable to named executive officers in 

connection with sale transactions. The SEC adopted rules 

finalizing these say on pay provisions in January 2011. 
Pursuant to the DFA, in June 2012, the SEC adopted a final 
rule directing the stock exchanges to prohibit listing classes of 

equity securities if a company™s compensation committee 

members are not independent. The rule also provides that a 

company™s compensation committee may only select a 

compensation consultant, legal counsel or other advisor after 

taking into consideration factors to be identified by the SEC that 

affect the independence of a compensation consultant, legal 

counsel or other advisor.  The SEC is required under the DFA to issue rules obligating 
companies to disclose in proxy materials for annual meetings of 

shareholders information that shows the relationship between 

executive compensation actually paid to their named executive 

officers and their financial performance, taking into account any 

change in the value of the shares of a company™s stock and 

dividends or distributions. The DFA also requires the SEC to 

propose rules requiring companies to disclose the ratio of the 

compensation of its chief executive officer to the median 

compensation of its employees. The SEC adopted final rules 

implementing the pay ratio provisions in August 2015.  For a 

registrant with a fiscal year ending on December 31, such as 

Bancorp, the pay ratio will be required as part of its executive 

compensation disclosure in proxy statements or Form 10-Ks filed 

starting in 2018. 
The DFA provides that the SEC must issue rules directing 
the stock exchanges to prohibit listing any security of a company 

unless the company develops and implements a policy providing 

for disclosure of the policy of the company on incentive-based 

compensation that is based on financial information required to be 

reported under the securities laws and that, in the event the 

company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to 

the material noncompliance of the company with any financial 

reporting requirement under the securities laws, the company will 

recover from any current or former executive officer of the 

company who received incentive-based compensation during the 

three-year period preceding the date on which the company is 

required to prepare the restatement based on the erroneous data, 

any exceptional compensation above what would have been paid 

under the restatement.  
The DFA requires the SEC to adopt a rule to require that 
each company disclose in the proxy materials for its annual 

meetings whether an employee or board member is permitted to 

purchase financial instruments designed to hedge or offset 

decreases in the market value of equity securities granted as 

compensation or otherwise held by the employee or board 

member.  

 
 Corporate Governance 
 The DFA clarifies that the SEC may, but is not required to 

promulgate rules that would require that a company™s proxy 

materials include a nominee for the board of directors submitted 

by a shareholder. Although the SEC promulgated rules to 

accomplish this, these rules were invalidated by a federal appeals 

court decision.  The SEC has said that they will not challenge the 

ruling, but has not ruled out the possibility that new rules could be 

proposed. 
The DFA requires stock exchanges to have rules prohibiting 
their members from voting securities that they do not beneficially 
own (unless they have received voting instructions from the 
beneficial owner) with respect to the election of a member of the 

board of directors (other than an uncontested election of directors 

of an investment company registered under the Investment 

Company Act of 1940), executive compensation or any other 

significant matter, as determined by the SEC by rule.  

 
Debit Card Interchange Fees 
 The DFA provides for a set of new rules requiring that 

interchange transaction fees for electric debit transactions be 

ﬁreasonableﬂ and proportional to certain costs associated with 

processing the transactions. The FRB was given authority to, 

among other things, establish standards for assessing whether 

interchange fees are reasonable and proportional. In June 2011, 
the FRB issued a final rule establishing certain standards and 
prohibitions pursuant to the DFA, including establishing 

standards for debit card interchange fees and allowing for an 

upward adjustment if the issuer develops and implements policies 

and procedures reasonably designed to prevent fraud.  The 

provisions regarding debit card interchange fees and the fraud 

adjustment became effective October 1, 2011. The rules impose 

requirements on the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary and may 

negatively impact our revenues and results of operations. On July 

31, 2013, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia 

issued an order granting summary judgment to the plaintiffs in a 

case challenging certain provisions of the FRB™s rule concerning 

electronic debit card transaction fees and network exclusivity 

arrangements (the ﬁCurrent Ruleﬂ) that were adopted to 

implement Section 1075 of the DFA, known as the Durbin 
Amendment. The Court held that, in adopting the Current Rule, 
the FRB violated the Durbin Amendment™s provisions concerning 

which costs are allowed to be taken into account for purposes of 

setting fees that are reasonable and proportional to the costs 

incurred by the issuer and therefore the Current Rule™s maximum 

permissible fees were too high. In addition, the Court held that the 

Current Rule™s network non-exclusivity provisions concerning 

unaffiliated payment networks for debit cards also violated the 

Durbin Amendment. The Court vacated the Current Rule, but 

stayed its ruling to provide the FRB an opportunity to replace the 

invalidated portions. The FRB appealed this decision and on 

March 21, 2014, the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the 

District Court™s grant of summary judgment and remanded the 

case for further proceedings in accordance with its opinion. The 

merchants have filed a petition for writ of certiorari to the U.S. 
Supreme Court. However, on January 20, 2015, the U.S. Supreme 
Court declined to hear an appeal of the Circuit Court reversal, 

thereby largely upholding the Current Rule and substantially 

reducing uncertainty surrounding debit card interchange fees the 

Bancorp is permitted to charge.  Refer to the Noninterest Income 

subsection of the Statements of Income Analysis section of 

MD&A for further information regarding the Bancorp™s debit 

card interchange revenue. 

 ` 178  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 FDIC Matters and Resolution Planning
 Title II of the DFA creates an orderly liquidation process that the 

FDIC can employ for failing systemically important financial 

companies. Additionally, the DFA also codifies many of the 

temporary changes that had already been implemented, such as 

permanently increasing the amount of deposit insurance to 

$250,000.  In January 2012, the FDIC issued a final rule that requires an 
insured depository institution with $50 billion or more in total 

assets to submit periodic contingency plans to the FDIC for 

resolution in the event of the institution™s failure.  The Bancorp™s 

banking subsidiary is subject to this rule and submitted its most 

recent resolution plan pursuant to this rule as of December 31, 

2015.  In October 2011, the FRB and FDIC issued a final rule 
implementing the resolution planning requirements of Section 

165(d) of the DFA.  The final rule requires BHCs with assets of 

$50 billion or more and nonbank financial firms designated by 

FSOC for supervision by the FRB to annually submit resolution 

plans to the FDIC and FRB.  Each plan shall describe the 

company™s strategy for rapid and orderly resolution in bankruptcy 

during times of financial distress.   Under the final rule, 
companies must submit their initial resolution plans on a 
staggered basis. The Bancorp submitted its most recent resolution 

plan pursuant to this rule as of December 31, 2015. 

 
Proprietary Trading and Investing in Certain Funds 

The DFA sets forth new restrictions on banking organizations™ 

ability to engage in proprietary trading and sponsors of or invest 

in private equity and hedge funds (the ﬁVolcker Ruleﬂ). The final 

regulations implementing the Volcker Rule (ﬁFinal Rulesﬂ) were 

adopted on December 10, 2013. The Volcker Rule generally 

prohibits any banking entity from (i) engaging in short-term 

proprietary trading for its own account and (ii) sponsoring or 

acquiring any ownership interest in a private equity or hedge 

fund. The Volcker Rule and Final Rules contain a number of 

exceptions. The Volcker Rule permits transactions in the 
securities of the U.S. government and its agencies, certain 
government-sponsored enterprises and states and their political 

subdivisions, as well as certain investments in small business 

investment companies.  Transactions on behalf of customers and 

in connection with certain underwriting and market making 

activities, as well as risk-mitigating hedging activities and certain 

foreign banking activities are also permitted. The Final Rules 

exclude certain funds from the prohibition on fund ownership and 

sponsorship including wholly-owned subsidiaries, joint ventures, 

and acquisitions vehicles, as well as SEC registered investment 

companies. 
De minimis
 ownership of private equity or hedge 
funds is also permitted under the Final Rules. In addition to the 

general prohibition on sponsorship and investment, the Volcker 

rule contains additional requirements applicable to any private 

equity or hedge fund that is sponsored by the banking entity or for 
which it serves as investment manager or investment advisor.  
The Bancorp is required under the Final Rules to demonstrate that 

it has a Volcker Rule compliance program. In connection with the 

issuance of the Final Rules, the Federal Reserve extended the 

conformance period generally until July 21, 2015. The Final 

Rules became effective April 2014 and in December 2014, the 

FRB extended the compliance period through July 2016 for 

investments in and relationships with such covered funds that 

were in place prior to December 31, 2013, and indicated that it 

intends to further extend the compliance period for such 

investments through July 2017.  Further, with respect to covered 
funds that are ﬁilliquid fundsﬂ, the FRB has the authority to grant 
up to five more years for the Bancorp to conform to the final 

Volcker Rule with respect to such illiquid funds.   
  
Derivatives  

Title VII of the DFA includes measures to broaden the scope of 

derivative instruments subject to regulation by requiring clearing 
and exchange trading of certain derivatives, imposing new capital 
and margin requirements for certa
in market participants and 
imposing position limits on certain over-the-counter derivatives. 

Certain affiliates of the Bancorp that engage in significant swap 

activities may be required to register with the Commodity Futures 

Trading Commission or the SEC as a swap dealer, security-based 

swap dealer, major swap participant or major security-based swap 

participant. As with the Volcker Rule, the Bancorp will be 

required to demonstrate that it has a satisfactory compliance 

program to monitor the activities of any such entity registered 

under the new regulations. The ultimate impact of these 

derivatives regulations, and the time it will take to comply, 

continues to remain uncertain. The final regulations will impose 

additional operational and compliance costs on us and may 

require us to restructure certain businesses and negatively impact 
our revenues and results of operations. 
    179  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 
 The Bancorp™s executive offices and the main office of Fifth Third 
Bank are located on Fountain Square 
Plaza in downtown Cincinnati, 
Ohio in a 32-story office tower, a 
five-story office 
building with an 
attached parking garage and a se
parate ten-story office building 
known as the Fifth Third Center, the William S. Rowe Building and 
the 530 Building, respectively. The 
Bancorp™s main operations center 
is located in Cincinnati, Ohio, in a three-story building with an 
attached parking garage known as the Madisonville Operations 
Center. The Bank owns 100% of these buildings.  
At December 31, 2015, the Bancorp, through its banking and non-
banking subsidiaries, operated 1,
254 banking centers, of which 902 
were owned, 243 were leased a
nd 109 for which the buildings are 
owned but the land is leased. The banking centers are located in the 
states of Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, Florida, 
Tennessee, North Carolina, West Vi
rginia, Pennsylvania, Missouri, 
and Georgia. The Bancorp™s signif
icant owned properties are owned 
free from mortgages and major encumbrances.  
 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE BANCORP 
 Officers are appointed annually by the Board of Directors at the 
meeting of Directors immediatel
y following the Annual Meeting of 
Shareholders. The names, ages 
and positions of the Executive 
Officers of the Bancorp as of February 25, are listed below along 
with their business experience during the past five years:  
 Greg D. Carmichael
, 54. Chief Executive Officer of the Bancorp 
since November 2015 and Pres
ident since September 2012. Previously, Mr. Carmichael was 
Chief Operating Officer of the 
Bancorp from June 2006 to August 2015, Executive Vice President 
of the Bancorp from June 2006 to September 2012 and Chief 
Information Officer of the Banc
orp from June 2003 to June 2006. 
 Lars C. Anderson
, 55. Executive Vice President and Chief 
Operating Officer of the Bancorp since August 2015. Previously, 
Mr. Anderson was Vice Chairman of Comerica Incorporated and 
Comerica Bank since December 2010. 
 Chad M. Borton
, 45. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp since 
April 2014. Previously, Mr. Borton was Head of Retail Banking for 
Fifth Third Bank from July 2012 to April 2014.  Prior to that, Mr. 
Borton served in multiple positions at
 JP Morgan Chase including the 
Head of Branch Administration from August 2011 to July 2012; 
Senior Vice President and Market
 Manager from August 2010 to 
August 2011; Head of Retail Distribution from 2008 to 2010 and 
Consumer Bank Chief Financial Officer from 2006 to 2008. 
  Frank R. Forrest
, 61. Executive Vice President and Chief Risk 
Officer of the Bancorp since April 2014.  Previously, Mr. Forrest was 
Executive Vice President and Chief Risk and Credit Officer of the 
Bancorp since September 2013. Prior to
 that, Mr. Forrest served with 
Bank of America Merrill Lynch. From March 2012 until June 2013, 
Mr. Forrest served as Managing 
Director and Quality Control 
Executive for Legacy Asset Services, a division of Bank of America. 
From September 2008 until March 2012,
 Mr. Forrest was Managing 
Director and Global Debt Products Executive for Global Corporate 
and Investment Banking. Formerly
 from January 2007 to September 
2008, Mr. Forrest was Risk Mana
gement Executive for Commercial 
Banking.   
 Mark D. Hazel
, 50. Senior Vice President and Controller of the 
Bancorp since February 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Hazel was the 
Assistant Bancorp Controller sin
ce 2006 and was the Controller of 
Nonbank entities since 2003.  
  Heather Russell Koenig
, 44. Executive Vice President, Chief Legal 
Officer and Corporate Secretary of the Bancorp since September 
2015.  Previously, Ms. Koenig wa
s Global Chief Regulatory Counsel 
and Head of the Office of Public Policy and Regulatory Affairs of 
Bank of New York Mellon since 
July 2011 and Associate General 
Counsel at Bank of America from October 2006 through June 2011. 
 Randolph J. Koporc
, 49. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp 
since October 2010. Previously, Mr. Koporc was President and Chief 
Executive Officer of Fifth Third Bank (Georgia) from October 2010 
to March 2014.  
 Gregory L. Kosch
, 56. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp 
since June 2005. Previously, Mr. Ko
sch was Senior Vice President 
and head of the Bancorp™s Commercial Division in the Chicago 
affiliate since June 2002.
  James C. Leonard
, 46. Executive Vice President since September 
2015 and Treasurer of the Bancorp since October 2013. Previously, 
Mr. Leonard was Senior Vice President from October 2013 to 
September 2015, the Director of Business Planning and Analysis 
from 2006 to 2013 and the Chief Financ
ial Officer of the Commercial Banking Division from 2001 to 2013. 
 Philip R. McHugh
, 51. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp 
since December 2014.  Previously
, Mr. McHugh was Executive Vice 
President of Fifth Third Bank sin
ce June 2011 and was Senior Vice 
President of Fifth Third Bank from June 2010 through June 2011.  
Prior to that, Mr. McHugh was the President and CEO of the 
Louisville Affiliate of Fifth 
Third Bank from January 2005 through 
June 2010.  Joseph R. Robinson
, 48. Executive Vice President and Chief 
Information Officer and Director 
of Information Technology and 
Operations of the Bancorp si
nce September 2009. Previously, 
Mr. Robinson was Executive Vice President and Chief Information 
Officer of the Bancorp since April 2008. Prior to that, he was Senior 
Vice President and Director of Central Operations since November 
2006 and Senior Vice President of IT Enterprise Solutions since 
March 2004.  
 Timothy N. Spence
, 37. Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy 
Officer of the Bancorp since September 2015. Previously, 
Mr. Spence was a senior partner in the Financial Services practice at 
Oliver Wyman, a global strategy and risk management consulting 
firm.  Teresa J. Tanner
, 47. Executive Vice President and Chief 
Administrative Officer since Se
ptember 2015. Previously, Ms. 
Tanner was the Executive Vice President and Chief Human 
Resources Officer of the Bancorp since February 2010 and Senior 
Vice President and Director of Enterprise Learning since September 
2008. Prior to that, she was Human Resources Senior Vice President 
and Senior Business Partner for 
the Information Technology and 
Central Operations divisions sin
ce July 2006. Previously, she was 
Vice President and Senior Busine
ss Partner for Operations since 
September 2004.  
 Tayfun Tuzun
, 51. Executive Vice President and Chief Financial 
Officer of the Bancorp since October 2013. Previously, Mr. Tuzun 
was the Senior Vice President and Treasurer of the Bancorp from 
December 2011 to October 2013. Prior to that, Mr. Tuzun was the 
Assistant Treasurer and Balance Sheet Manager of Fifth Third 
Bancorp. Previously, Mr. Tuzun wa
s the Structured Finance Manager 
since 2007.   
` 180  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 PART II 
 ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT™S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER 

PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
 The Bancorp™s common stock is traded in the over-the-counter market and is listed under the symbol ﬁFITBﬂ on the NASDAQ® Global
 Select Market System.  

 High and Low Stock Prices and Dividends Paid Per Share
   Dividends Paid 
2015  High  Low
Per Share 
Fourth Quarter $21.14 
$18.15 
$0.13 
Third Quarter 
$21.93 
$18.21 
$0.13 
Second Quarter 
$21.90 
$18.63 
$0.13 
First Quarter 
$20.53 
$17.14 
$0.13 
          Dividends Paid 
2014  High  Low
Per Share 
Fourth Quarter $20.82 
$17.65 
$0.13 
Third Quarter 
$21.79 
$19.45 
$0.13 
Second Quarter 
$23.41 
$19.82 
$0.13 
First Quarter 
$23.90 
$20.37 
$0.12 
        See a discussion of dividend limitations that the subsidiaries can
 pay to the Bancorp discussed in Note 3 of the Notes to Conso
lidated 
Financial Statements. Additionally, as of December 31,
 2015, the Bancorp had 44,678 shareholders of record. 
 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
 Period Total Number 
of Shares Purchased(a)
   Average Price Paid 
Per Share  Total Number of Shares 
Purchased as Part of Publicly 
Announced Plans or 
Programs   Maximum Number of 
Shares that May Yet be 
Purchased Under the Plans 
or Programs(b)
   October 2015  1,525,580 
$ 18.79 
 1,446,613 
 39,820,995
November 2015
  53,701 
 19.31 
 - 
 39,820,995
December 2015
  9,286,351 
 19.95 
 9,248,482 
 30,572,513
Total  10,865,632 
$ 19.78 
 10,695,095 
 30,572,513
(a)
 The Bancorp repurchased 78,967,
 53,701 and 37,869 shares during October, Novembe
r and December of 2015, re
spectively, in connection with various employee 
compensation plans of the Bancorp. These purchases do not count ag
ainst the maximum number of shares that may yet be purchased 
under the Board of 
Directors™ authorization. 
(b)
 In March of 2014, the Bancorp announced t
hat its Board of Directors had authorized 
management to purchase 100 million shares of
 the Bancorp™s common stock 
through the open market or in any private party transactions. 
The authorization does not include specific price targets or an e
xpiration date. 
 See further discussion on accelerated share repurchase transactions and stock-based compensation in Note 23 and Note 24 of the 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
.   181  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following performance graphs do not constitute soliciting material and should not be deemed filed or incorporated by refere
nce into any 
other Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent the Bancorp 
specifically 
incorporates the performance graphs by reference therein. 
 Total Return Analysis 
The graphs below summarize the cumulative return experienced 
by the Bancorp's shareholders over the years 2009 through 2015, an
d 2004 
through 2015, respectively, compared to the S&P 500 Stock and the S&P Banks indices.   

  FIFTH THIRD BANCORP VS. MARKET INDICES 
` 182  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 PART III.  ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE 
OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 The information required by this item relating to the Executive 
Officers of the Registrant is included in PART I under 

ﬁEXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE BANCORP.ﬂ  
The information required by this item concerning Directors 
and the nomination process is incorporated herein by reference 
under the caption ﬁELECTION OF DIRECTORSﬂ of the 
Bancorp™s Proxy Statement for the 2016 Annual Meeting of 

Shareholders.  
The information required by this item concerning the Audit 
Committee and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is 

incorporated herein by reference under the captions 

ﬁCORPORATE GOVERNANCEﬂ and ﬁBOARD OF 

DIRECTORS, ITS COMMITTEES, MEETINGS AND 

FUNCTIONSﬂ of the Bancorp™s Proxy Statement for the 2016 

Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  
The information required by this item concerning Section 16 
(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance is incorporated 

herein by reference under the caption ﬁSECTION 16 (a) 

BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP RE
PORTING COMPLIANCEﬂ of 
the Bancorp™s Proxy Statement for the 2016 Annual Meeting of 
Shareholders.  
 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
 The information required by this item is incorporated herein by 
reference under the captions ﬁCOMPENSATION DISCUSSION 

AND ANALYSIS,ﬂ ﬁCOMPENSATION OF NAMED 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS,ﬂ 

ﬁCOMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORTﬂ and 

ﬁCOMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND 
INSIDER PARTICIPATIONﬂ of the Bancorp™s Proxy Statement 
for the 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. 
 ITEM 12. SECURITY OW
NERSHIP OF CERTAIN 
BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND 

RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
 Security ownership information of certain beneficial owners and 
management is incorporated herein by reference under the 
captions ﬁCERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS,ﬂ ﬁELECTION 
OF DIRECTORS,ﬂ  ﬁCOMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND 

ANALYSISﬂ and ﬁCOMPENSATION OF NAMED 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORSﬂ of the Bancorp™s 

Proxy Statement for the 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  
The information required by this item concerning Equity 
Compensation Plan information is included in Note 24 of the 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED 

TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
 The information required by this item is incorporated herein by 
reference under the captions ﬁCERTAIN TRANSACTIONSﬂ, 

ﬁELECTION OF DIRECTORSﬂ, ﬁCORPORATE 

GOVERNANCEﬂ and ﬁBOARD OF DIRECTORS, ITS 

COMMITTEES, MEETINGS AND FUNCTIONSﬂ of the 

Bancorp™s Proxy Statement for the 2016 Annual Meeting of 

Shareholders.
   ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND 
SERVICES 
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by 
reference under the caption ﬁPRINCIPAL INDEPENDENT 
EXTERNAL AUDIT FIRM FEESﬂ of the Bancorp™s Proxy 
Statement for the 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.
   PART IV
. ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL 
STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 PagesPublic Accounting Firm 83
Fifth Third Bancorp and Subsidia
ries Consolidated Financial 
Statements 
84-88
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 89-
170 The schedules for the Bancorp and its subsidiaries are omitted 
because of the absence of conditions under which they are 

required, or because the information is set forth in the 

Consolidated Financial Statements or the notes thereto.  

 The following lists the Exhibits to the Annual Report on Form 10-K.
2.1 Master Investment Agreement (e
xcluding exhibits and schedules) 
dated as of March 27, 2009 and amended as of June 30, 2009, among 

Fifth Third Bank, Fifth Third Fi
nancial Corporation, Advent-Kong 
Blocker Corp., FTPS Holding, LL
C and Fifth Third Processing 
Solutions, LLC. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the 

Registrant™s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission 
on July 2, 2009.  
3.1 Amended Articles of Incorpora
tion of Fifth Third Bancorp, as 
Amended. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registrant™s 

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended June 30, 
2014. 
3.2 Code of Regulations of Fifth 
Third Bancorp, as Amended as of 
September 15, 2014.  
4.1 Junior Subordinated Indenture, 
dated as of March 20, 1997 between 
Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee.  

Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Current Report on Form 8-
K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on March 26, 
1997. 
4.2 Indenture, dated as of May 23,
 2003, between Fifth Third Bancorp 
and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee.  Incorporated by 
reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant™s Current Report on Form 8-

K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 22, 
2003.  
4.3 Global Security representing 
Fifth Third Bancorp™s $500,000,000 
4.50% Subordinated Notes due 2018.  Incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant™s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on May 22, 2003.  
4.4 First Supplemental Indenture, 
dated as of December 20, 2006, 
between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as 
Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual Report on 

Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.  
4.5 Global Security representing 
Fifth Third Bancorp™s $500,000,000 
5.45% Subordinated Notes due 2017.  Incorporated by reference to 

Exhibit 4.15 to the Registrant's 
Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for 
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.  
4.6 Global Security representing 
Fifth Third Bancorp™s $250,000,000 
Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 
due 2016.  Incorporated by 
reference to Exhibit 4.16 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 
10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.  
4.7 First Supplemental Indenture da
ted as of March 30, 2007 between 
Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee, to 
the Junior Subordinated Indenture 
dated as of May 20, 1997 between 
Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmingt
on Trust Company. Incorporated 
by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to 
the Registrant™s Current Report on 
Form 8-K filed with the Secur
ities and Exchange Commission on 
March 30, 2007.  
4.8 Global Security dated as of March 4, 2008 representing Fifth Third 
Bancorp™s $500,000,000 8.25% 
Subordinated Notes due 2038. 
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's Quarterly 

Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2008.  (1)  
  183  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 4.9 Indenture for Senior Debt Secu
rities dated as of April 30, 2008 
between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as 

trustee.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant™s 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed w
ith the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on May 6, 2008.  
4.10 First Supplemental Indenture da
ted as of January 25, 2011 between 
Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington 
Trust Company, as Trustee, to 
the Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 

between Fifth Third and the Trustee.
 Incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant™s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on January 25, 2011. 
4.11 Global Security dated as of Ja
nuary 25, 2011 representing Fifth Third 
Bancorp™s $500,000,000 3.625% Senior Notes due 2016. 
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Registrant™s Current 

Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on January 25, 2011. (2)  
4.12 Second Supplemental Indenture da
ted as of March 7, 2012 between 
Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington 
Trust Company, as Trustee, to 
the Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 
between Fifth Third Bancorp a
nd Wilmington Trust Company. 
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on March 7, 2012. 
4.13 Global Security dated as of 
March 7, 2012 representing Fifth Third 
Bancorp™s $500,000,000 3.500% Senior Notes due 2022. 
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant™s Current 

Report on Form 8-K/A filed with
 the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on March 7, 2012. 
4.14 Deposit Agreement dated as of May 16, 2013, between Fifth Third 
Bancorp, as issuer, Wilmington Trust, National Association, as 

depositary and calculation agent, Am
erican Stock Transfer & Trust 
Company, LLC, as transfer agent and registrar, and the holders from 
time to time of the depositary
 receipts issued thereunder.  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with
 the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on May 16, 2013.  
4.15 Form of Certificate Representi
ng the 5.10% Fixed-to-Floating Rate 
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred St
ock, Series H, of Fifth Third 
Bancorp. Incorporated by reference 
to Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant™s 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed w
ith the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on May 16, 2013.  
4.16 Form of Depositary Receipt fo
r the 5.10% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series H, of Fifth Third 
Bancorp.  Incorporated by reference 
to Exhibit 4.4 of the Registrant™s 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed wi
th the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on May 16, 2013. 
4.17 Global Security dated as of 
November 20, 2013 representing Fifth 
Third Bancorp™s $500,000,000 4.30%
 Subordinated Notes due 2024. 
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on November 20, 2013. 
4.18 Deposit Agreement dated Decemb
er 9, 2013, between Fifth Third 
Bancorp, as issuer, Wilmington Trust, National Association, as 
depositary and calculation agent, Am
erican Stock Transfer & Trust 
Company, LLC as transfer agent and registrar, and the holders from 

time to time of the depositary
 receipts issued thereunder.  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with
 the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on December 9, 2013.  
4.19 Form of Certificate Representi
ng the 6.625% Fixed-to-Floating Rate 
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series I, of Fifth Third 

Bancorp. Incorporated by reference 
to Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant™s 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed w
ith the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on December 9, 2013.  
4.20 Form of Depositary Receipt fo
r the 6.625% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series I, of Fifth Third 
Bancorp.  Incorporated by reference 
to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant™s 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed wi
th the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on December 9, 2013. 
4.21 Deposit Agreement dated June 5,
 2014, among Fifth Third Bancorp, 
as issuer, Wilmington Trust, Nationa
l Association, as depositary and 
calculation agent, American Stock 
Transfer & Trust Company, LLC 
as transfer agent and registrar, and 
the holders from time to time of 
the depositary receipts 
issued thereunder. Incorporated by reference 
to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant™s
 Current Report on Form 8-K filed 
with the Securities and Excha
nge Commission on June 5, 2014. 
4.22 Form of Certificate Representi
ng the 4.90% Fixed-to-Floating Rate 
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series J, of Fifth Third 

Bancorp. Incorporated by reference 
to Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant™s 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed wi
th the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on June 5, 2014. 
4.23 Form of Depositary Receipt fo
r the 4.90% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series J, of Fifth Third 
Bancorp. Incorporated by reference 
to Exhibit 4.4 of the Registrant™s 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed wi
th the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on June 5, 2014. 
4.24 Third Supplemental Indenture da
ted as of February 28, 2014 between 
Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington 
Trust Company, as Trustee, to 
the Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 
between Fifth Third Bancorp and the Trustee. Incorporated by 

reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Registrant™s Current Report on Form 
8-K filed with the Commission on February 28, 2014. 
4.25 Global Security dated as of 
February 28, 2014, representing Fifth 
Third Bancorp™s $500,000,000 in principal amount of its 2.30% 
Senior Notes due 2019. Incorporated 
by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of 
the Registrant™s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the 

Commission on February 28, 2014. 
4.26 Deposit Agreement dated June 5,
 2014, among Fifth Third Bancorp, 
as issuer, Wilmington Trust, Nationa
l Association, as depositary and 
calculation agent, American Stock 
Transfer & Trust Company, LLC 
as transfer agent and registrar, and 
the holders from time to time of 
the depositary receipts 
issued thereunder. Incorporated by reference 
to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant™s
 Current Report on Form 8-K filed 
with the Securities and Excha
nge Commission on June 5, 2014. 
4.27 Form of Certificate Representi
ng the 4.90% Fixed-to-Floating Rate 
Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series J, of Fifth Third 

Bancorp. Incorporated by reference 
to Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant™s 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed wi
th the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on June 5, 2014. 
4.28 Form of Depositary Receipt fo
r the 4.90% Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series J, of Fifth Third 
Bancorp. Incorporated by reference 
to Exhibit 4.4 of the Registrant™s 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed wi
th the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on June 5, 2014. 
4.29 Fourth Supplemental Indenture 
dated as of July 27, 2015 between 
Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington 
Trust Company, as Trustee, to 
the Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 
between Fifth Third Bancorp and the Trustee. Incorporated by 

reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant™s Current Report on Form 8-
K filed with the Commission on July 27, 2015.  
 4.30 Global Security dated as of July 27, 2015, representing Fifth Third 
Bancorp™s $1,100,000,000 in principal amount of its 2.875% Senior 
Notes due 2020. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the 
Registrant™s Current Report on Form
 8-K filed with the Commission 
on July 27, 2015.
   10.1 Fifth Third Bancorp Unfunded 
Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-
Employee Directors, as Amended 
and Restated. Incorporated by 
reference to Exhibit 10.1 of the Registrant™s Quarterly Report on 

Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013. *  
10.2 Indenture effective November 19,
 1992 between Fifth Third Bancorp, 
Issuer and NBD Bank, N.A., Trustee.
  Incorporated by reference to 
Registrant™s Current Report on Form
 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on November 18, 1992 and as Exhibit 4.1 to 
the Registrant™s Registration Stat
ement on Form S-3, Registration 
No. 33-54134. 
10.3 Fifth Third Bancorp Master Pr
ofit Sharing Plan, as Amended and 
Restated. Incorporated by reference 
to Exhibit 10.5 to the Registrant™s 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
2011.* 
10.4 First Amendment to Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing Plan, 
as Amended and Restated. Incorporat
ed by reference to Exhibit 10.6 
to the Registrant™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2011.*  
10.5 Second Amendment to Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing 
Plan, as Amended and Restated. Inco
rporated by reference to Exhibit 
10.7 to the Registrant™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 

ended December 31, 2012.*  
10.6 Third Amendment to Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing Plan, 
as Amended and Restated. Incorporat
ed by reference to Exhibit 10.8 
of the Registrant™s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter 
ended June 30, 2013.*  
` 184  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 10.7 Fifth Third Bancorp 401(k) Savings
 Plan, as Amended and Restated.
 Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Registrant™s Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.* 
10.8 First Amendment to Fifth Third Bancorp 401(k) Savings Plan, as 
Amended and Restated.* 
10.9 The Fifth Third Bancorp Master Retirement Plan, as Amended and 
Restated. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 of the 

Registrant™s Annual Report on Form 
10-K for the fiscal year ended 
December 31, 2014.** 
10.10 First Amendment toThe Fifth Third Bancorp Master Retirement Plan, 
as Amended and Restated.* 
10.11 Fifth Third Bancorp Incentive Compensation Plan. Incorporated by 
reference to Annex 2 to the Registrant™s Proxy Statement dated 

February 19, 2004.* 
10.12 Fifth Third Bancorp 2008 Incentive Compensation Plan. Incorporated 
by reference to Annex 2 to the Re
gistrant™s Proxy Statement dated 
March 6, 2008.* 
10.13  Fifth Third Bancorp 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan. Incorporated 
by reference to Annex A to the 
Registrant™s Proxy Statement dated 
March 6, 2014.*  
10.14 Amended and Restated Fifth 
Third Bancorp 1993 Stock Purchase 
Plan.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Registrant™s 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 

2011.* 
10.15 Fifth Third Bancorp Non-qualif
ied Deferred Compensation Plan, as 
Amended and Restated.  Incorporat
ed by reference to Exhibit 10.12 
to the Registrant™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2013.* 
10.16 Amendment to the Fifth Th
ird Bancorp Non-qualified Deferred 
Compensation Plan, as Amended a
nd Restated. Incorporated by 
reference to Exhibit 10.14 of the Registrant™s Annual Report on Form 
10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.* 
10.17 Fifth Third Bancorp Stock Option 
Gain Deferral Plan.  Incorporated 
by reference to Registrant™s Proxy Statement dated February 9, 
2001.*  
10.18 Amendment No. 1 to Fifth Third 
Bancorp Stock Option Gain Deferral 
Plan.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant™s 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed 
with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on May 26, 2005. *  
10.19 Amended and Restated First Na
tional Bankshares of Florida, Inc. 
2003 Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to 

First National Bankshares of Florida, Inc.™s Annual Report on Form 

10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003. *   
10.20 Fifth Third Bancorp Executive Change in Control Severance Plan, 
effective January 1, 2015. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 

to Registrant™s Current Report on Fo
rm 8-K filed with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission on November 21, 2014.* 
10.21 Warrant dated June 30, 2009 issued by Vantiv Holding, LLC to Fifth 
Third Bank. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit L to the Registrant™s 
Schedule 13D/A filed with the Co
mmission on December 30, 2015.  
10.22 Second Amended & Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement 
(excluding certain exhibits) dated as
 of March 21, 2012 by and among 
Vantiv, Inc., Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC, Vantiv Holding, 
LLC and each person who becomes a member after March 21, 2012. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit C to the Registrant™s Schedule 
13D filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012.  
10.23 Amendment and Restatemen
t Agreement and Reaffirmation 
(excluding certain schedules) dated 
as of June 30, 2009 among Fifth 
Third Processing Solutions, LLC, FTPS Holding, LLC, Card 
Management Company, LLC, Fift
h Third Holdings, LLC and Fifth 
Third Bank. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the 
Registrant™s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission 
on July 2, 2009. 
10.24 Registration Rights Agreement 
dated as of March 21, 2012 by and 
among Vantiv, Inc., Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC, JPDN 
Enterprises, LLC and certain stockholders of Vantiv, Inc. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhib
it E to  the Registrant™s Schedule 
13D filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012. 
10.25 Exchange Agreement dated as of March 21, 2012 by and among 
Vantiv, Inc., Vantiv Holding, LLC, Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, 

LLC and such other holders of Class B Units and Class C Non-Voting 
Units that are from time to time pa
rties of the Exchange Agreement. 
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit B to the Registrant™s Schedule 

13D filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012. 
10.26 Recapitalization Agreement da
ted as of March 21, 2012 by and 
among Vantiv, Inc., Vantiv Holding, LLC, Fifth Third Bank, FTPS 
Partners, LLC, JPDN Enterprises, 
LLC and certain stockholders of 
Vantiv, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit D to the Registrant™s 

Schedule 13D filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012.  
10.27 Stock Appreciation Right Award Agreement. Incorporated by 
reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Registrant™s Quarterly Report on 

Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013.* 
10.28 Performance Share Award Agreem
ent. Incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 10.3 of the Registrant™s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for 

the quarter ended June 30, 2013.* 
10.29 Restricted Stock Award Agreement (for Directors). Incorporated by 
reference to Exhibit 10.4 of the Registrant™s Quarterly Report on 

Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013.* 
10.30 Restricted Stock Award Agreement (for Executive Officers). 
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of the Registrant™s 
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2013.* 
10.31 Stock Appreciation Right Award Agreement. Incorporated by 
reference to Exhibit 10.34 of the Registrant™s Annual Report on Form 
10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.* 
10.32 Performance Share Award Agreem
ent. Incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 10.35 of the Registrant™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.* 
10.33 Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (for Directors). Incorporated by 
reference to Exhibit 10.36 of the Registrant™s Annual Report on Form 
10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.* 
10.34 Restricted Stock Award Agreement (for Executive Officers). 
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.37 of the Registrant™s Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014.* 
10.35 Master Confirmation, as supplemented by a Supplemental 
Confirmation, for accelerated share repurchase transaction dated 
October 20, 2014 between Fifth Th
ird Bancorp and Deutsche Bank 
AG, London Branch. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.38 of 
the Registrant™s Annual Report on Fo
rm 10-K for the fiscal year 
ended December 31, 2014.** 
10.36  Master Confirmation, as supplemented by a Supplemental 
Confirmation, for accelerated share repurchase transaction dated July 
29, 2015 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Morgan Stanley & Co. 

LLC. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant™s 
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Commission on 
November 5, 2015.** 
10.37  Supplemental Confirmation date
d September 3, 2015, to Master 
Confirmation, dated May 21, 2013, 
for accelerated share repurchase 
transaction between Fifth Third 
Bancorp and Deutsche Bank AG, 
London Branch, with Deutsche Bank 
Securities Inc. acting as agent. 
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant™s 
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the Commission on 
November 5, 2015.  Master Confirmation is incorporated by reference 

to Exhibit 10.6 to the Registrant™s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q 
filed with the Commission on August 7, 2013.** 
10.38 Separation Agreement between Fi
fth Third Bancorp and Dan Poston 
dated October 2, 2015. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to 
the Registrant™s Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed with the 
Commission on October 6, 2015.  
10.39  Master Confirmation, as supplemented by a Supplemental 
Confirmation, for accelerated share repurchase transaction dated 
April 27, 2015 between Fifth Third Bancorp and Barclays Bank PLC, 

through its agent Barclays Capital Inc.
  Incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant™s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed 
with the Commission on August 5, 2015.** 
10.40  Offer letter from Fifth Thir
d Bancorp to Lars C. Anderson. 
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 16, 2015** 
10.41  Master Confirmation, dated 
January 22, 2015, and Supplemental 
Confirmation, for accelerated share repurchase transaction dated 
January 22, 2015 between Fifth 
Third Bancorp and Wells Fargo 
Bank, National Association. Incorpor
ated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 
to the Registrant™s Quarterly Re
port on Form 10-Q filed with the 
Commission on May 11, 2015.** 
10.42 Supplemental Confirmation date
d December 9, 2015, to Master 
Confirmation dated January 22,
 2015, for accelerated share 
repurchase transaction between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wells Fargo 
Bank, National Association.**     
12.1 Computations of Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.  
  185  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 12.2 Computations of Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to Combined Fixed 
Charges and Preferred Stock Dividend Requirements.  
21 Fifth Third Bancorp Subsidiaries, as of December 31, 2015.  
23 Consent of Independent Register
ed Public Accounting Firm-Deloitte 
& Touche LLP.  
31(i) Certification Pursuant to Secti
on 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002 by Chief Executive Officer.  
31(ii) Certification Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002 by Chief Financial Officer.  
32(i) Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted 
Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief 

Executive Officer.  
32(ii) Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted 
Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief 

Financial Officer.  
99.1  Consent Order pursuant to the C
onsumer Financial Protection Act of 
2010, dated September 28, 2015, between Fifth Third Bank and the 

U.S. Department of Justice re
garding indirect auto loans. 
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on September 29, 

2015.   
99.2  Consent Order pursuant to the C
onsumer Financial Protection Act of 
2010, dated September 28, 2015, between Fifth Third Bank and the 

Consumer Financial Protection Bure
au, including the Stipulation and 
Consent to the Issuance of a Consent Order, dated September 28, 
2015, by Fifth Third Bank regarding indirect auto loans. Incorporated 

by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Registrant™s Current Report on 

Form 8-K filed with the Commission on September 29, 2015.   
 99.3 Consent Order pursuant to the C
onsumer Financial Protection Act of 
2010, dated September 28, 2015, between Fifth Third Bank and the 

Consumer Financial Protection Bure
au, including the Stipulation and 
Consent to the Issuance of a Consent Order, dated September 28, 
2015, by Fifth Third Bank regarding credit card add-on products. 

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 to the Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on September 29, 
2015.   
 99.4  Settlement Agreement entered 
into on September 30, 2015, between 
the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development 
and Fifth Third Bancorp and its 
subsidiaries. Incorporated by 
reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant™s Current Report on Form 
8-K filed with the Commission on October 7, 2015.   
 99.5 Stipulation and Order of Settle
ment and Dismissal entered into on 
September 30, 2015, by and among 
plaintiff the United States of 
America and on behalf of the Unite
d States Department of Housing 
and Urban Development and the Fe
deral Housing Administration and 
Fifth Third Bancorp and its subsidiaries (excluding exhibits). 
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 to the Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on October 7, 2015.   
101 Interactive data files pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T: (i) the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) 
the Consolidated Statements of 
Income, (iii) the Consolidated Stat
ements of Comprehensive Income 
(iv) the Consolidated Statements
 of Changes in Equity, (v) the 
Consolidated Statements of Cash
 Flows, and (vi) the Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements 
tagged as blocks of text and in 
detail.  
  (1)
 Fifth Third Bancorp also entered into an identical security on March 4, 
2008 representing an additional $500,000,000 of its 8.25% Subordinated 
Notes due 2038.  
(2) Fifth Third Bancorp also entered into
 an identical security on January 25, 
2011 representing an additional $500,000,
000 of its 3.625% Senior Notes 
due 2016. 
 
 *    Denotes management contract or
 compensatory plan or arrangement. ** An application for confid
ential treatment for selected portions of this 
exhibit has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  ` 186  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 SIGNATURES 
 Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused 

this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto 

duly authorized. 

 FIFTH THIRD BANCORP 
Registrant 
 /s/ Greg D. Carmichael 
Greg D. Carmichael 
President and CEO 
Principal Executive Officer 

February 25, 2016 

 
Pursuant to requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 

this report has been signed on February 25, 2016 by the 

following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the 

capacities indicated. 

  OFFICERS
:  /s/ Greg D. Carmichael 
Greg D. Carmichael 
President and CEO 
Principal Executive Officer 

 /s/ Tayfun Tuzun 
Tayfun Tuzun 
Executive Vice President and CFO 
Principal Financial Officer 

 /s/ Mark D. Hazel 
Mark D. Hazel  
Senior Vice President and Controller 
Principal Accounting Officer 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 DIRECTORS: 
 /s/ James P. Hackett 
James P. Hackett Chairman  
 /s/ Marsha C. Williams 
Marsha C. Williams Lead Director  /s/ Nicholas K. Akins 
Nicholas K. Akins 
 /s/ B. Evan Bayh III 
B. Evan Bayh III 
 /s/ Jorge L. Benitez 
Jorge L. Benitez 
 /s/ Katherine B. Blackburn 
Katherine B. Blackburn 
 /s/ Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr. 
Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr. 
 /s/ Emerson L. Brumback 
Emerson L. Brumback 
 /s/ Greg D. Carmichael 
Greg D. Carmichael 
 /s/ Gary R. Heminger 
Gary R. Heminger  /s/ Jewell D. Hoover 
Jewell D. Hoover 
 /s/ Kevin T. Kabat Kevin T. Kabat 
 /s/ Michael B. McCallister 
Michael B. McCallister  /s/ Hendrik G. Meijer 
Hendrik G. Meijer 
CONSOLIDATED TEN YEAR COMPARISON 
 187  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 AVERAGE ASSETS FOR THE YEARS ENDE
D DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS) 
    Interest-Earning Assets  
              Year  Loans and Leases 
Federal Funds 
Sold(a)
   Interest-Bearing 
Deposits in Banks(a)
   Securities 
  Total  
  Cash and Due 
from Banks  
Other 
Assets  Total Average 
Assets  2015 
$ 93,339 
   1 
   3,257 
   26,987 
   123,584 
     2,608 
   15,212
 140,111 
  2014 
   91,127 
  -   3,043 
   21,823 
    115,993 
     2,892 
   14,539
  131,943 
  2013 
   89,093 
   1 
   2,416 
   16,444 
    107,954 
     2,482 
   15,053
  123,732 
  2012 
   84,822 
   2 
   1,493 
   15,319 
    101,636 
     2,355 
   15,695
  117,614 
  2011 
   80,214 
   1 
   2,030 
   15,437 
    97,682 
     2,352 
   15,335
  112,666 
  2010 
   79,232 
   11 
   3,317 
   16,371 
    98,931 
     2,245 
   14,841
  112,434 
  2009 
   83,391 
   12 
   1,023 
   17,100 
    101,526 
     2,329 
   14,266
  114,856 
  2008 
   85,835 
   438 
   183 
   13,424 
    99,880 
     2,490 
   13,411
  114,296 
  2007 
   78,348 
   257 
   147 
   11,630 
    90,382 
     2,275 
   10,613
  102,477 
  2006 
   73,493 
   252 
   144 
   20,910 
    94,799 
     2,477 
   8,713
  105,238 
            AVERAGE DEPOSITS AND SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS FOR 
THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS) 
      Deposits           Year   Demand 
Interest Checking  
Savings  Money Market Other 
Time  
Certificates 
$100,000 and 
Over 
Foreign 
Office   Total  
Short-Term 
Borrowings
 Total  
2015 
  $ 35,164 
   26,160 
   14,951 
   18,152 
  4,051
  2,869 
   874
   102,221 
   2,641 
   104,862 
  2014 
     31,755 
   25,382 
   16,080 
   14,670 
  3,762
  3,929 
   1,828
    97,406 
   2,331 
    99,737 
  2013 
     29,925 
   23,582 
   18,440 
   9,467 
  3,760
  6,339 
   1,518
   93,031 
   3,527 
   96,558 
  2012 
     27,196 
   23,096 
   21,393 
   4,903 
  4,306
  3,102 
   1,555
    85,551 
   4,806 
    90,357 
  2011 
     23,389 
   18,707 
   21,652 
   5,154 
  6,260
  3,656 
   3,497
    82,315 
   3,122 
    85,437 
  2010 
     19,669 
   18,218 
   19,612 
   4,808 
  10,526
  6,083 
   3,361
    82,277 
   1,926 
    84,203 
  2009 
     16,862 
   15,070 
   16,875 
   4,320 
  14,103
  10,367 
   2,265
    79,862 
   6,980 
    86,842 
  2008 
     14,017 
   14,191 
   16,192 
   6,127 
  11,135
  9,531 
   4,220
    75,413 
   10,760 
    86,173 
  2007 
     13,261 
   14,820 
   14,836 
   6,308 
  10,778
  6,466 
   3,155
    69,624 
   6,890 
    76,514 
  2006 
     13,741 
   16,650 
   12,189 
   6,366 
  10,500
  5,795 
   3,711
    68,952 
   8,670 
    77,622 
  INCOME FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31 
($ IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) 
                                Per Share
(b)
                                                Originally Reported
 Year    Interest Income  Interest Expense  
Noninterest 
Income  Noninterest 
Expense 
Net Income (Loss) 
Available to Common 
Shareholders  
Earnings 
Diluted Earnings  
Dividends Declared  
Earnings 
 Diluted Earnings 
2015 
  $ 4,028 
   495 
   3,003 
   3,775 
   1,637 
   2.03 
   2.01 
   0.52 
 2.03
  $ 2.01 
  2014 
     4,030 
   451 
   2,473 
   3,709 
   1,414 
   1.68 
   1.66 
   0.51 
 1.68
    1.66 
  2013 
     3,973 
   412 
   3,227 
   3,961 
   1,799 
   2.05 
   2.02 
   0.47 
 2.05
   2.02 
  2012 
     4,107 
   512 
   2,999 
   4,081 
   1,541 
   1.69 
   1.66 
   0.36 
 1.69
    1.66 
  2011 
     4,218 
   661 
   2,455 
   3,758 
   1,094 
   1.20 
   1.18 
   0.28 
 1.20
    1.18 
  2010 
     4,489 
   885 
   2,729 
   3,855 
   503 
   0.63 
   0.63 
   0.04 
 0.63
    0.63 
  2009 
     4,668 
   1,314 
   4,782 
   3,826 
   511 
   0.73 
   0.67 
   0.04 
 0.73
    0.67 
  2008 
     5,608 
   2,094 
   2,946 
   4,564 
   (2,180)
   (3.91)
   (3.91)
   0.75 
 (3.94)
    (3.94)
  2007 
     6,027 
   3,018 
   2,467 
   3,311 
   1,075 
   1.99 
   1.98 
   1.70 
 2.00
    1.99 
  2006 
     5,955 
   3,082 
   2,012 
   2,915 
   1,188 
   2.13 
   2.12 
   1.58 
 2.14
    2.13 
  MISCELLANEOUS AT DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
                      Bancorp Shareholders' Equity  
        Year Common 
Shares 
Outstanding    Common 
Stock  
Preferred 
Stock  
Capital Surplus Retained 
Earnings 
Accumulated 
Other 
Comprehensive 
Income  Treasury 
Stock  
 Total  
Book Value Per Share 
 Allowance for 
Loan and Lease Losses 
2015 
   785,080,314 
  $ 2,051 
   1,331 
   2,666 
  12,358 
  197 
   (2,764)
   15,839 
   18.48 
  $ 1,272 
 2014 
   824,046,952 
     2,051 
   1,331 
   2,646 
  11,141 
  429 
   (1,972)
    15,626 
   17.35 
    1,322 
 2013 
   855,305,745 
   2,051 
   1,034 
   2,561 
  10,156 
  82 
   (1,295)
   14,589 
   15.85 
   1,582 
 2012 
   882,152,057 
     2,051 
   398 
   2,758 
  8,768 
  375 
   (634)
    13,716 
   15.10 
    1,854 
 2011 
   919,804,436 
     2,051 
   398 
   2,792 
  7,554 
  470 
   (64)
    13,201 
   13.92 
    2,255 
 2010 
   796,272,522 
     1,779 
   3,654 
   1,715 
  6,719 
  314 
   (130)
    14,051 
   13.06 
    3,004 
 2009 
   795,068,164 
     1,779 
   3,609 
   1,743 
  6,326 
  241 
   (201)
    13,497 
   12.44 
    3,749 
 2008 
   577,386,612 
     1,295 
   4,241 
   848 
  5,824 
  98 
   (229)
    12,077 
   13.57 
    2,787 
 2007 
   532,671,925 
     1,295 
   9 
   1,779 
  8,413 
  (126)
   (2,209)
    9,161 
   17.18 
    937 
 2006 
   556,252,674 
     1,295 
   9 
   1,812 
  8,317 
  (179)
   (1,232)
    10,022 
   18.00 
    771 
 (a) Federal funds sold and interest-bearing deposits in banks are co
mbined in other short-term investments in the Consolidated Fina
ncial Statements.  
(b) Adjusted for accounting guidance related to the calculation of 
earnings per share, which was adopted retroactively on January 1
, 2009.  
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS 
 188 Fifth Third Bancorp 
 FIFTH THIRD  
BANCORP DIRECTORS
 James P. Hackett, Chairman 
Interim Director of Athletics 
University of Michigan 
Vice Chair and Director 
Steelcase, Inc.  Marsha C. Williams, Lead Director 

Retired Senior Vice President & Chief 
Financial Officer 
Orbitz Worldwide, Inc. 
 Nicholas K. Akins 
Chairman, President & CEO 
American Electric Power 
 Company  B. Evan Bayh III 

Partner 
McGuireWoods LLP  
 Jorge L. Benitez 

Retired CEO (U.S.) and 
Senior Managing Director 
(North America), Accenture 
 Katherine B. Blackburn 

Executive Vice President 
Cincinnati Bengals, Inc. 
 Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr. 

President 
B.F. Companies  Emerson L. Brumback 
Retired President & COO 
M&T Bank 
 Greg D. Carmichael 
President & CEO 
Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Gary R. Heminger 

President, CEO & Director 
Marathon Petroleum  
Corporation  Jewell D. Hoover 
Principal & Bank Consultant 
Hoover and Associates,
 LLC 
 Kevin T. Kabat 
Vice Chairman 
Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Michael B. McCallister 

Retired Chairman & CEO 
Humana Inc.  
 Hendrik G. Meijer 

Co-Chairman, Director 
& CEO 
Meijer, Inc.  
     FIFTH THIRD BANCORP OFFICERS
 Greg D. Carmichael 
President &  
Chief Executive Officer 
 Lars C. Anderson 

Executive Vice President & 
Chief Operating Officer 
 Chad M. Borton 

Executive Vice President  
 Frank R. Forrest 

Executive Vice President &  

Chief Risk Officer 
 Mark D. Hazel 

Senior Vice President &  
Controller   Heather Russell Koenig 
Executive Vice President, 
Chief Legal Officer & 
Corporate Secretary  Randolph J. Koporc 

Executive Vice President 
 Gregory L. Kosch 

Executive Vice President 
 James C. Leonard 

Executive Vice President &  
Treasurer 
 Philip R. McHugh 

Executive Vice President 
 Joseph R. Robinson 

Executive Vice President & 
Chief Operations  
and Technology Officer  
 Timothy N. Spence 

Executive Vice President &  
Chief Strategy Officer 
 Teresa J. Tanner 

Executive Vice President & 
Chief Administrative Officer 
 Tayfun Tuzun 
Executive Vice President & 
Chief Financial Officer 
               REGIONAL PRESIDENTS  
Ralph S. Michael III 
(Group Regional President) 
Donald Abel, Jr. 
Michael Ash 
Steven Alonso 
David A. Call Hal Clemmer 
Timothy Elsbrock 
(Market President) 
David Girodat Thomas Heiks Jerry Kelsheimer 

Robert W. LaClair 
Brian Lamb Jordan A. Miller, Jr. 
Robert A. Sullivan 
Thomas G. Welch, Jr.  FIFTH THIRD BANCORP BOARD 

COMMITTEES Audit Committee Emerson L. Brumback, Chair 
Nicholas K. Akins 
Katherine B. Blackburn 
Jewell D. Hoover  Finance Committee Gary R. Heminger, Chair   
Emerson L. Brumback 
James P. Hackett 
Kevin T. Kabat 
Marsha C. Williams  
 Human Capital and Compensation 
Committee Marsha C. Williams, Chair 
Nicholas K. Akins 
Gary R. Heminger 
Michael B. McCallister 
Hendrik G. Meijer 
 Nominating and Corporate Governance 

Committee Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr., Chair 
B. Evan Bayh III 
Gary R. Heminger 
Hendrik G. Meijer 
 Regulatory Oversight Committee 
Marsha C. Williams, Chair 
Nicholas K. Akins 
Emerson L. Brumback 
Jewell D. Hoover  Risk and Compliance Committee 
Jewell D. Hoover, Chair 
B. Evan Bayh III 
Jorge L. Benitez 
Hendrik G. Meijer 
Marsha C. Williams 
   For the years ended Dec. 31
$ in millions, except per share data 
201520142013
Earnings and Dividends   Net income attributable to Bancorp
$ 1,712
$ 1,481 $ 1,836 
Common dividends declared
417 
427 407 
Preferred dividends declared
75 
67 37 
Per Common Share
   Earnings     $ 2.03 
        $ 1.68         $ 2.05 
Diluted earnings
      2.01 
         1.66          2.02 
Cash dividends      0.52 
         0.51          0.47 
Book value per share
    18.48        17.35        15.85 
At Year-End
   Total Assets
$ 141,082 
  $ 138,706   $ 130,443 
Total Loans and Leases 
(incl. held-for-sale)
   93,485 
     91,345      89,558 
Deposits 103,205 
   101,712      99,275 
Bancorp Shareholders' Equity
   15,839      15,626      14,589 
Key Ratios
   Net Interest Margin (FTE)
2.88%3.10%3.32%
tio (FTE)
57.6%
61.1%58.2%
Tier 1 Common Equity Ratio*
N/A
9.65%9.45%
CET1 Ratio (Basel III Transitional)
9.82%
N/AN/A
Tier 1 Risk-Based Capital Ratio
10.93%
10.83%10.43%
Total Risk-Based Capital Ratio
14.13%
14.33%14.17%
Actuals
   Common Shares Outstanding (000's)
 785,080 
   824,047    855,306 
Banking Centers
    1,254        1,302        1,320 
ATMs
    2,593 
       2,638        2,586 
Full-Time Equivalent Employees
   18,261 
     18,351      19,446 
* Non-GAAP measure. For further information, see the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of MD&A.
 20152014
Stock  
Performance
HighLow
Dividends 
Declared 
Per Share
HighLow
Dividends 
Declared 
Per Share
Fourth Quarter
$ 21.14$ 18.15 $ 0.13 
$ 20.82$ 17.65 $ 0.13 
Third Quarter
21.93 18.210.13
21.79 19.450.13
Second Quarter
21.90 18.630.13
23.41 19.820.13
First Quarter
20.53 17.140.13
23.90 20.370.12
Fifth Third’s common stock is traded on the NASDAQ
® Global Select Market under the symbol “FITB.”
 Financial Highlights 2015
Fifth Third Bancorp
Corporate Address
38 Fountain Square Plaza
Cincinnati, OH 45263
www.53.com

1.800.972.3030
Investor Relations 
(For Inquiries of Shareholders Only)
38 Fountain Square Plaza
MD 1090QC
Cincinnati, OH 45263
ir@53.com
1.866.670.0468
  
 
Transfer Agent
American Stock Transfer  

and Trust Company, LLC.
For Correspondence
6201 15th Ave.
Brooklyn, NY 11219
www.amstock.com

1.888.294.8285For Dividend Reinvestment  
and Direct Stock Purchase  

Plan Transaction Processing
P.O. Box 922

Wall Street Station

New York, NY 10269-0560
FIFTH THIRD BANCORP 
2015 ANNUAL REPORT
    |     www.53.com
