˜˚˚˛
˜˚˛˜

š˙
…˙–ƒ‡˙⁄‹ƒ⁄‡˙•š˙›ƒ⁄⁄˙
ƒ−˙ƒ‡–⁄−˙†˙•ƒ‹™˙

ﬂ˙š‰††”˙
⁄‡Łƒ−˙˜‡˙š‡˙‡˙
Œ˘
••˝
˜––Ÿ˙Œ
˝˝•…˙š˙
–ƒ‡˙⁄‹ƒ⁄‡˙›–‹Ž˙†‡˙
›⁄ı˙
—†˙‰‰‰‰…−–…

˚˜˜ž
ﬂ˙


˜˚˛˝˚˛˙ˆˇ
˜˚˛˜˝˙ˆˆˇ
˙˙˙˝˙˙˙˛˝
˝

˝Œ˙
˙

2012 brought important clarity on a number of fronts and demon
-strated the strength and resilience of our business model. Fi˜h ˚ird™s 
overall ˛nancial results included the second highest net income in 
our history, with returns that approached those associated with a 
normalized environment. Although there is still more work to do, we 
have signi˛cant momentum in the business. 
˚e past several years have brought a transformation to the bank
-ing and ˛nancial services industries that has introduced uncertainty 
and required a signi˛cant amount of adaptation on the part of banks. 
However, many important regulatory and legislative requirements 
have been ˛nalized and adapted to, or have at least been proposed so 
that business plans can be made with the rules in mind. ˚e election was 
another signi˛cant source of uncertainty for businesses and consumers and 
it is now behind us.  
˚e challenges for Fi˜h ˚ird and the industry are also clearer. Most critically, 
 ˛nancial services ˛rms, including banks, must address the e˝ects of the ˛nancial  
crisis on their reputations and regain the public™s trust. We also face an anemic 
 economic recovery. Interest rates will almost certainly remain historically low for 
several more years Œ which is detrimental to bank earnings Œ and there are signi˛
-cant federal and local budget issues that must be resolved. 
At Fi˜h ˚ird, we rise to these challenges each day. ˚e environment demands new 
ways of doing business; we develop innovative solutions that drive value for our 
customers and sustainable revenue for our Company. It demands simplicity; we 
 o˝er products and services that are straightforward and fairly priced. It demands 
agility; our unique a˙liate model combines a responsive, local and customer-
 oriented approach with the e˙ciencies of a centralized operating platform. Market 
leaders and boards of directors in each of our 15 a˙liates provide an intimate under
-standing of dynamics across our footprint. We leverage our size to provide e˙cient 
functional support while maintaining a local focus. ˚is approach, we believe, is 
 the source of our competitive advantage. We are able to build stronger custom
-er relationships while bene˛ting from economies of scale without the complexity 
 associated with being a mega-bank. We believe that these traits will be key to our 
success in 2013 and beyond.
˜˝Our e˝orts to meet the demands of the new land
-scape align with our belief that favorably di˝erenti
-ated banks with consistent, focused execution will 
 be rewarded. ˚e back-to-basics operating environ
-ment is well-suited for our culture, our business 
model and our practices. We provide critically 
 important products and services to individuals and 
businesses, including ˛nancial advice, safekeeping of 
assets and funding for life™s key moments. Banks that 
do the right things for their customers Œ listening 
 to them, focusing on building relationships rather 
than transaction volume, and holding themselves 
 accountable Œ will be rewarded as they earn their 
 customers™ and the public™s trust.
˚roughout the last ˛ve years or so, we have con
-tinued to invest in our businesses and to update our 
sales processes. We believe that this attention to the 
future was critical and the right course of action, 
despite being di˙cult at times, particularly during 
the crisis. ˚e e˝ects of this focus were evident in 
our 2012 results. Net income available to common 
shareholders increased 41 percent compared with 
2011 and Fi˜h ˚ird earned a return on assets of 1.3 
 percent. High-quality loan growth, solid fee income 
production, expense discipline and credit improve
-ment contributed to our strong results Œ results 
that enabled us to increase our return of capital to 
shareholders through dividends and share buybacks. 
 Total capital returned to common shareholders 
 increased by more than 275 percent from 2011 to 
nearly $1 billion while we continued to increase 
 lending activity and maintained strong capital levels.
Despite the demands faced by the industry, we 
never lost sight of our goals to improve customer 
 satisfaction and employee engagement. Fi˜h ˚ird 
Bank ranked second in 2012 on the Ponemon 
 Institute™s list of the Most Trusted Retail Banks for 
Privacy for 2011. Additionally, Fi˜h ˚ird Bank™s 
2012 Retail Banking Customer Satisfaction score, as 
measured by J.D. Power and Associates, improved 
 10 points from last year, and remains strong among 
our peers. ˚ese analyses and those of other third-
 party research ˛rms validate our work to improve the 
 customer experience, which corresponds with higher 
customer loyalty and improved ˛nancial results.
Customer satisfaction extends past components 
like problem resolution, loyalty and retention. It 
 reˆects the whole experience, no matter how our 
 services are accessed. We continue to make invest
-ments in our distribution network through both 
traditional and newer channels. We opened 15 
 banking centers in areas we have identi˛ed as growth 
or underserved markets, relocated eight banking 
centers and upgraded approximately 40 percent of 
our ATMs with image capture capability. We are 
 constantly looking to new technologies and 
 methodologies to better serve our customers. We 
have found that customers who use our mobile 
 products have lower attrition rates and add more 
value to the Bank than non-users. To that end, we 
made enhancements to our mobile apps, including 
the ability to deposit checks by taking a picture using 
an iPhone, and real-time alerts, such as transactional 
updates for credit card, debit card and ATM usage. 
˜˚˛˝˙ˆˇ˘˚ˇˆ
ˇˆ
˚ˆ
ˆ
ˇ
˜˚˛˜˝˙ˆˆˇ
˙˙˙˝˙˙˙†£ Non-GAAP measure. For further information, see the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of MD&A.
Customer feedback has been positive and adoption 
rates of these services continue to increase. We are 
competitive with others in the industry with our 
 mobile o˝erings and we will continue to expand and 
di˝erentiate our distribution channels.
Although consumers increasingly select self-
 service transactions, our physical presence via bank
-ing centers and employees is a critical component of 
our ability to deliver value-added services. When we 
talk about building trust and relationships with our 
customers, the responsibility starts with management 
and ultimately rests with our employees, the face of 
our Company. We have the right people at Fi˜h ˚ird 
to make it happen. Our workforce is energetic, smart, 
curious and engaged. We demonstrated continued 
improvement on our employee engagement scores 
as measured by Gallup, which increased nearly 20 
 percent from 2005 when we started measuring en
-gagement, and are now in the top quartile of Gallup™s 
employee engagement database. ˚is is a signi˛cant 
increase and indicates that our e˝orts are having a 
strong impact with employees.
As with employee engagement, our e˝orts to 
 simplify our deposit products in 2012 support a 
number of changes we have made to become a 
more customer-centric organization. In simplifying 
 product o˝erings to better serve our Retail customers, 
we reduced nearly 40 types of checking and savings 
accounts Œ mostly legacy products accumulated over 
time and through acquisitions Œ to ˛ve core check
-ing and three core savings products. We designed 
 relationship-based alternatives that ˛t the way 
 customers prefer to do business with us, and we 
 simpli˛ed our service charges, eliminating certain 
daily overdra˜ and early account closure fees, among 
others, to make our products even more attractive. 
˚e products introduced and the policy chang
-es made as part of this recon˛guration were driven 
by direct customer feedback. ˚e new product set 
streamlines work for our employees and simpli˛es 
choices for customers. ˚is approach squarely puts 
our customers ˛rst, in concert with our aim to be 
 the ˛rst choice and trusted advisor for all of our 
 customers. Early feedback has validated our expec
-tations Œ that engaging in conversations with our 
customers leads to opportunities for deeper bank
-ing relationships. ˚e value of these relationships is 
 not simply derived from a single product or line of 
business, but represents the total opportunity across 
the Bank. We have successfully converted customers 
in six of our markets and we expect to complete the 
roll-out in the ˛rst half of 2013.
I look back on 2012 and see the bene˛ts of our 
 investments, starting with our strategic plan before 
the ˛nancial crisis and continuing through it. We 
 adopted new technologies. We developed strong 
market positions and further invested in our broad 
product o˝ering. We are on a clear path forward, with 
great momentum and the capacity and ability to 
 continue to improve market shares. We believe that 
the di˝erentiating factors of Fi˜h ˚ird are now, and 
in the future will be, recognized in the market. In 
2012, Fi˜h ˚ird™s total shareholder return (stock 
price plus dividends) increased 23 percent, which 
outperformed the S&P Banks index, up 21 percent, 
and the broader S&P 500 index, up 16 percent.

Fi˜h ˚ird™s 2012 ˛nancial results reˆected our 
strong competitive position and pro˛table business 
model. We reported full year net income available 
to common shareholders of $1.5 billion, the highest 
since 2005, and pre-provision net revenue
£ of $2.5 
billion. Although the low interest rate environment 
and other environmental costs present near-term 
challenges, return on assets of 1.3 percent was just 
within our long-term target range for a more normal
-ized environment, and return on average common 
equity was 11.6 percent, compared with 9.0 percent 
for 2011. Our e˙ciency ratio (expenses as a percent
-˜˚˛˚˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˝˜˙ˆ˛ˇ˘˜˙ˆ˚˘˙˜˚˛˝˙˙˜˚˛ˆ˙˙˜ˇ˙˙˜˙˜˚˛˚˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˜˜˚˛˚˜˚˛˛˜˚˛˜˚˙’˝£ Non-GAAP measure. For further information, see the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of MD&A.
age of revenue) of 61.7 percent also remains higher 
than our longer-term expectation for a more normal 
 operating environment. We will continue to carefully 
manage expenses in the context of the business and 
revenue environment.
Credit metrics continued to improve across the 
 board. Full year net charge-o˝s of $704 million 
 declined 40 percent to 85 bps of average portfolio  
loans and leases, the lowest level in ˛ve years. Non
-performing assets, including those held-for-sale, of 
$1.3 billion declined $639 million, or 33 percent. At 
year-end, total delinquencies excluding nonaccrual 
of $525 million were at their lowest level since the 
second quarter of 2004. ˚is improvement in credit 
trends led to a reduction in our loan loss reserves of 
 $401 million during 2012, while at the same time 
producing strong coverage ratios, at 2.16 percent of 
portfolio loans and 180 percent of nonperforming 
portfolio loans.
Net interest income remained stable despite the 
 challenging interest rate environment, up 1 percent 
compared with 2011, and bene˛ted from our focus 
on growing interest earning assets while we manage 
interest rate risk. Net interest margin was 3.55 
 percent and, although we expect additional margin 
compression given the interest rate environment, we 
expect it to remain manageable due to our relatively 
neutral interest rate risk pro˛le. 
Total loan growth at year-end of 6 percent was 
driven by higher origination volume particularly 
 in commercial and industrial (C&I), residential 
mortgage and automobile loans. Average commercial 
loans increased 6 percent from 2011, with average 
 C&I loan growth of $4 billion, up 15 percent. In 2012, 
we expanded our Commercial capabilities by estab
-lishing a specialized energy industry lending group 
and remained focused on the healthcare industry, 
with our continued investment in new products to 
help hospitals and medical practices streamline their 
 collection cycles and accelerate their cash ˆows.
Average consumer loans increased 5 percent from 
2011, largely due to average residential mortgage 
loan growth of 18 percent. Our mortgage business 
 bene˛ted from increased re˛nancing due to low 
rates and originations related to the government™s 
HARP 2.0 program, which represented nearly 20 
percent of total mortgage originations. We continue 
to see opportunities in the mortgage business with 
˝
˝
˝
˝
˜˚˛˜˝˙ˆˆˇ
˙˙˙˝˙˙˙‹the ongoing housing market recovery and across the 
Bank as we deepen relationships with many of these 
 customers. Also within the consumer portfolio, av
-erage auto loans increased 4 percent from 2011, and 
bene˛ted from our continuous presence in the indi
-rect auto market and our expanding footprint, which 
now reaches 45 states. Average credit card balances 
increased 5 percent from 2011. Originations of our 
DUO Card represent an important component of our 
total card production and we continue to bring new 
o˝erings to market. One example is Access 360°, our 
di˝erentiated prepaid, reloadable card that gives cus
-tomers the ˆexibility to bank on their terms. Both of 
these cards are natural complements to our product 
suite and represent another example of listening to 
what our customers want and providing it to them in 
an e˝ective way.
Deposit growth in 2012 was also robust and bene˛ted 
from our focus on new customer acquisition and 
household growth. Average transaction deposit 
 account balances (primarily demand, savings and 
money market accounts) increased in 2012 by $6 
 billion, or 8 percent, and average core deposits in
-creased by $4 billion, or 5 percent. 
Noninterest income represented about 45 percent of 
the Company™s total revenue. Consistent with 
strength in loan production, we have seen strong 
 fee income in mortgage banking net revenue and 
 corporate banking revenue. Mortgage banking net 
revenue grew 41 percent from 2011. ˚is outstanding 
result is attributable to our ability to capture market 
opportunities while interest rate movements and 
 government programs increased the demand for new 
mortgages and re˛nancing. Corporate banking 
 revenue grew 18 percent from 2011. We know that 
today™s businesses have needs that extend beyond 
 traditional commercial bank o˝erings. ˚at is why 
we have come to market with smart, new business 
solutions that incorporate modern technology and 
facilitate tailored solutions for our customers. For 
 example, our Remote Currency Manager, a treasury 
management product that enables customers to 
 maximize cash ˆow while boosting cash manage
-ment, eclipsed 7,000 locations during the year and 
generated annual revenue of about $13 million.
Our Investment Advisors business contributed about 
12 percent of fee income. Total assets under care 
increased to more than $300 billion as a result of 
growth in the Private Bank, Institutional Services 
and Fi˜h ˚ird Securities. ˚is business bene˛ts 
from a highly experienced sales force, a continued 
 focus on attracting top talent, and growth in the 
number of pro˛table households. In the third quarter 
of 2012, we completed the sale of our money market 
 mutual funds to Federated Investors and our retail 
stock and bond funds to Touchstone. ˚ese transac
-tions enable Fi˜h ˚ird Asset Management to focus 
on institutional money management and reinforce 
our commitment to an open architecture advisory 
model. ˚ey provide another example of how we have 
simpli˛ed and focused our operating model and are 
increasing the value proposition to customers, which 
ultimately bene˛ts our shareholders.
Another signi˛cant transaction for Fi˜h ˚ird in 
2012 was Vantiv, Inc.™s initial public o˝ering (IPO). 
˚is IPO was part of a process that began four years 
ago with our decision to sell an interest in Fi˜h ˚ird 
Processing Solutions. We believed then that the 
growth of the business would be accelerated by 
 enabling it to operate independently, and that is 
 exactly what has happened. Vantiv nearly doubled its 
revenue since 2008, which also included the bene˛t 
of several acquisitions that would have been di˙cult 
to accomplish had the processing business remained 
 a fully consolidated subsidiary of the Bank. In the 
second half of 2012 we sold a portion of our Class A 
shares of Vantiv common stock to further monetize 
our ownership position in Vantiv. ˚ese transactions 
have strengthened our Company by increasing our 
focus and core strengths and have led to the creation 
of a strong and well-positioned new public company 
in Vantiv. We continue to own a 33 percent interest in 
Vantiv, whose market capitalization was $4.6 billion 
at year-end. ˚is is a valuable stake relative to 
 our market capitalization and we have signi˛cant 
ˆexibility in our future actions and our options for 
deploying that capital.
Our strong earnings results produce high rates of 
 internal capital generation, which have been supple
-mented by the Vantiv gains. Our capital levels 
 substantially exceed required regulatory well-capital
-ized minimums and proposed future standards. 
˚ese characteristics position Fi˜h ˚ird with the 
ability to distribute excess capital to shareholders 
while maintaining already strong capital levels. In 
2012, we increased our quarterly dividend to $0.10, 
which moved us closer to levels consistent with the 
Federal Reserve™s near-term dividend payout ratio 
guidance of 30 percent. In addition, under our 2012 
capital plan approved during the Federal Reserve™s 
Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review, we 
 repurchased $475 million of common shares and also 
repurchased $175 million of common shares as a 
 result of gains on the sale of Vantiv shares. Despite 
these repurchases, our Tier 1 common ratio
£ in-creased 16 bps in 2012 to 9.5 percent, and our Tier 1 
risk-based capital ratio was 10.7 percent at year-end 
compared with the 6 percent regulatory well-capital
-ized minimum.
We believe we are well-positioned to continue the 
momentum reˆected in a pro˛table 2012, and 
 our business model has a demonstrated ability to 
generate organic growth even in a challenging 
 environment. ˚e economy is recovering, albeit 
slowly, and we are well-suited to take advantage of 
marketplace developments and opportunities. Our 
employees are determined, ready and able to meet 
the demands of the environment and I thank them 
for their dedication to Fi˜h ˚ird, our customers and 
our shareholders. Our workforce is more engaged 
than ever and is committed to providing a top-notch 
customer experience that incorporates customers™ 
 input and delivers innovative solutions. We share a 
vision for Fi˜h ˚ird to be the one bank that people 
most value and trust. As we work to achieve this 
 vision, I am con˛dent that through a thoughtful, 
straightforward and balanced approach, our 
 Company will be an industry leader into the future.
Sincerely,
Kevin T. Kabat
 Vice Chairman and Chief Executive O˜cer
February 2013
›˝£ Non-GAAP measure. For further information, see the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of MD&A.
ˆ
ˆ
˙ˆ˘˚˙ˆ˚ˆ˚ˇˇ˚ˇˆ

 ˜˚˛˜˝˙ˆˆˇ
˙˙˙˝˙˙˙−Our Company desires to empower people ˛nancially and enhance our rep
-utation for doing so. While our bankers work tirelessly every day to provide 
the quality service, products and knowledge that our clients need to be suc
-cessful, we realize that more needs to be done within the broader community.  
We have invested signi˛cant ˛nancial and human resources into ˛nancial 
empowerment programs. ˚e e˝ort took hold in 2004 but has solidi˛ed in 
recent years as the need for ˛nancial education became apparent in the U.S. 
Fi˜h ˚ird Bank o˝ers a full spectrum of ˛nancial empowerment programs 
that start with children so they can develop sound, life-long habits.  
˚e Young Bankers Club is a ˛nancial literacy program for elementary 
 students. Originally launched in 2004, it was completely revised and updated 
in 2012 to meet new and evolving national academic standards. ˚e program 
teaches a foundation of responsibility, ˛nancial basics, and education that 
carries students forward.  
When students enter eighth grade, our partnership with the American 
 Bankers Association™s 
Teach Children to Save
 program supports good ˛nan
-cial practices and understanding of the economic world. With an emphasis 
on saving money and delaying grati˛cation, this program helps pre-teens 
 appreciate the value of hard work and reaping due rewards.
In high school, our alliance with Dave Ramsey, arguably one of the country™s 
most inˆuential ˛nancial experts, educates teens who are embarking on 
 college and adulthood. We sponsor Ramsey™s ˛nancial education curriculum, 
Foundations in Personal Finance
, throughout our footprint. In 2012, we in
-vested $2.2 million to bring the program to more than 1,800 high schools. We 
reached more than 270,000 students and count every one as a life potentially 
changed for the better. Our alliance with ˚e Lampo Group has educated 
more than 400,000 students since 2010. 
Many adults also need assistance. Partnering with local community organiza
-tions, our two 40-foot Financial Empowerment mobiles traveled into 88 un
-derserved communities in 2012. ˚e 29,000 people who boarded our eBuses 
received credit counseling, foreclosure avoidance training, or gained access to 
quality banking services. 
In 2012 we piloted an industry-˛rst program with NextJob, a nationwide re
-employment company, that gave some of our distressed mortgage borrowers 
job search assistance fully funded by the Bank. Knowing that nearly half of 
mortgage delinquencies are due to job loss, we recognized an opportunity 
to assist our customers in re-gaining ˛nancial stability. ˚e pilot resulted in 
40 percent of participants ˛nding a full-time job, and we plan to expand the 
program in 2013. 
‚˝
¤˙
˙
•˙
„˙

Our Retail bank provides the ability to reach all customer segments and 
 produce the largest number of customer interactions for the Company. 
 Although our Branch Banking services now extend beyond a physical location 
to an online and mobile presence, customers continue to turn to our banking 
centers for checking and savings accounts, home equity loans and lines of 
 credit, credit cards, direct loans for automobiles, and other personal ˛nancing 
needs, as well as products for small businesses, including cash management. 
Our Retail channels introduce Fi˜h ˚ird to customers and are o˜en the ˛rst 
step in building a valued and lasting relationship with Fi˜h ˚ird Bank.

˚e more we understand our customers™ needs, their families™ needs, and their 
business needs, the better we can serve them. Our goal is to make comprehen
-sive o˝erings available, along a value continuum that customers want, and to 
create deeper relationships as a result. In 2012, we introduced new solutions 
that eliminate complexity and make banking a better experience and a better 
value for everyone. ˚is includes our simpli˛ed deposit products, a reloadable 
prepaid card called Access 360°, and continued enhancements to our online 
and mobile banking platforms. 
For business customers, Fi˜h ˚ird™s Branch Banking provides a robust 
 resource that in 2012 was ranked ˛rst by Ath Power Consulting for Small 
 Business Banking Advocacy. We get to know our customers. We assess their 
changing needs in a changing environment, and we address those needs 
 with smart, speci˛c ˛nancial solutions on everything from loans to treasury 
management to employee savings plans and banking programs.
“
Listening is the foundation of our Branch Banking strategy. We ask questions 
 to learn where customers are now, where they want to go, and how we can help 
them get there. 
Customers want simplicity, straight-forward products, good value and a 
 relationship.
At Fi˜h ˚ird, our holistic approach to Retail banking puts the customer ˛rst 
and solidi˛es our position as a trusted ˛nancial partner.
    ™˙˙
˜˚˝
˝
˝˝’š’
ﬂ˛Ł
˝˝€…‡•€š€—⁄
˝˝˝€…‡•€ƒ‡ˆ‹š•‡ˆ›‡−š⁄‰’⁄
˛Œ†˜‹˝
˝…‰‹‡ˆ
ˆ˜€—”‰—ƒˆ‹‡—’‡•⁄˜Œ’˛‹˝
˝€’‚˙
−˝
˝˝ˆ
ˆ‹–⁄’š‚‡•⁄
    ˜˚˛˜˝˙ˆˆˇ
˙˙˙˝˙˙˙Ł€
˜˚˛˜˝€˝
˝
˝˝’š’
˚˝
˝˝€…‡•€š€—⁄
ﬂ−−
˝˝‚š•’ƒ€ƒ‡ˆ⁄‡•…‰‹‰—ƒˆ
ˆ−š•’„
™Œ™‹›˝
˝–’šˆ
ˆš•”

Our Consumer Lending solutions enable customers to achieve their goals. 
Mortgages, home equity loans and lines, student loans, and auto loans that are 
 originated through a network of auto dealers positively impact not only our 
 customers, but also the communities in which they live.

Buying a car or house, ˛nancing an education and building a future are 
deeply personal events. Fi˜h ˚ird™s loan products are designed to be just 
 as personal.
Each customer and situation is di˝erent. We consistently work with 
 borrowers to understand their ˛nances and their goals. We provide expert 
advice from an integrated team, dedicated service from resourceful employ
-ees, and smart solutions that are tailored to the customer. ˚is may include 
options that can help customers pay o˝ a loan faster by re˛nancing to a 
 shorter term or lowering a rate to reduce the payment. We are committed to 
working with customers to create bene˛cial outcomes.
“
To evolve with the dynamic marketplace and meet our customers™ 
 changing needs, we continue to adjust our o˝erings. For example, in response 
to customer feedback, our mortgage company launched a state-of-the-art 
 noti˛cation system that automatically updates customers on the status of 
their loans via email and online. And from the start, we provide ample 
 resources to make the process of obtaining a loan less daunting. We make 
application checklists, loan calculators, and tools such as frequently asked 
questions available online so that customers can access them at any time, 
from anywhere. 
It is important for us to be trusted and valued over the life of the loans we 
 make, and hopefully, for many years beyond. Our professional bankers are 
 committed to understanding our customers™ unique needs, providing 
 options, and choosing the best solution. In 2012, we maintained our mortgage 
 origination market share within the top 20, with originations of $25.2 billion, 
up 35 percent from $18.6 billion in 2011, and we remained a top-˛ve market 
share leader within the non-captive prime auto lending space.
˜˚˛˜˝€˝
˝
˝˝’š’
ﬂ’
˝˝€…‡•€š€—⁄
˝˝€…‡•€ƒ‡ˆ‹š•‡ˆ›‡−š⁄‰’⁄
™›‹˝
˝š•−š•€’‡ˆ
ˆ’‰š—⁄™‰−⁄
˜Œ˜’‹˝
˝ˆ
ˆ’‰š—⁄™‰−⁄
™Œ˛˚˚˝
˝’•‡€⁄–•ﬁˆ‚€—€ƒ‡‚‡—’ˆ
ˆ‹‹š–—’⁄
€
˛˚˙˙
Fi˜h ˚ird™s Commercial line of business builds relationships with business, 
 government and professional customers with customized ˛nancial solutions. We 
provide banking, working capital, and ˛nancial services to middle-market, 
mid-corporate, and large organizations. With customers ranging in size from 
those with $20 million in annual revenue to some of the world™s largest companies, 
our bankers are valued partners in our customers™ ˛nancial success. We o˝er 
 traditional lending and depository products as well as global cash management, 
foreign exchange and international trade ˛nance, derivatives and capital markets 
services, asset-based lending, real estate ˛nance, public ˛nance, commercial 
 leasing, and syndicated ˛nance. 

Serving customers well requires understanding them. We know, for example, 
that customers want more than products from their bank. ˚ey want ideas that 
 contribute to their success. ˚ey want results. Our Commercial team delivers with 
innovations such as:











 marketplace and processed $6.5 billion in transactions in 2012.













cards that allows businesses to authorize transactions more e˙ciently while 
 traveling abroad and improves the security of international transactions.













the country and specialized products like the RevLink Solutions platform.














strong relationships and customized services for companies in petroleum 
and natural gas production, processing and distribution industries.
“
We have demonstrated commitment to our customers by increasing sta˙ng for 
the mid-corporate segment, which targets clients with $200 million to $2 billion 
in revenue, working closely with our customer executives, and expanding our ex
-pertise in speci˛c industry categories.
Expertise, experience, innovation and trust are valued in the marketplace. ˚ey 
are assets customers value as they work to build their business. We will continue 
to leverage these assets for the good of the Bank and the communities we serve.

˜˚˝
˝
ﬂ‹˛†˝˝˝’š’
˝˝€…‡•€š€—⁄
ﬂ−˝
˝˝€…‡•€ƒ‡ˆ‹š•‡ˆ›‡−š⁄‰’⁄
ﬂ˜−˝
˝˝€⁄⁄‡’⁄ˆ–—›‡•ˆ‚€—€ƒ‡‚‡—’
ﬂ†˚™˝˝˝€⁄⁄‡’⁄ˆ–—›‡•ˆ‹€•‡
˜˚˛˜˝˙ˆˆˇ
˙˙˙˝˙˙˙˛˛
Our Investment Advisors segment is comprised of ˛ve distinct businesses, 
each tailored to the unique needs of its customers. Fi˜h ˚ird Private Bank, 
Fi˜h ˚ird Securities, Fi˜h ˚ird Asset Management, Fi˜h ˚ird Institutional 
 Services and Fi˜h ˚ird Insurance put more than 100 years of experience to 
work to help individual, business and institutional clients build and manage 
their wealth.
Better ideas Œ and better solutions Œ begin with better listening. We take 
the time to listen, understand and collaborate. We are trusted advisors 
 whose specialized approach acknowledges the needs, goals and expectations 
of our clients:














most aˇuent clients, with teams of professionals dedicated to helping 
 clients achieve their ˛nancial goals.














lives, o˝ering retirement, investment and education planning, managed 
 money, annuities and transactional brokerage services. 











through insurance products and services such as life insurance, long-term 
care insurance, disability income protection and annuities. 











 institutional clients.









and record-keeping services for corporations, ˛nancial institutions, 
 foundations, endowments and not-for-pro˛t organizations. Products 
 include retirement plans, endowment management, planned giving and 
global and domestic custody services. 
“
Listening to our clients is at the heart of our strategy. ˚is helps us build deeper 
relationships and fully understand their unique needs. ˚ese insights give us 
the information we need to o˝er the best ideas, education and solutions to 
 help our clients achieve their ˛nancial goals. 
Collaboration with our Retail, Commercial and Business Banking partners 
adds even more value, providing comprehensive ˛nancial advice for our 
 clients and serving their wealth management needs. By leveraging our 
 internal company partnerships, Investment Advisors provides our clients 
 with complete, powerful ˛nancial solutions from one trusted advisor.
˛˜€˝
Supporting the community is integral to our business. We appreciate that 
 the stronger the community is, the stronger our Bank can be. Quite simply, our 
employee family lives and works where our customers do, so we have a vested 
interest in building vibrant communities.
“˝
We were the ˛rst ˛nancial institution in the United States to establish a 
 corporate foundation in 1948. ˚e Fi˜h ˚ird Foundation funds non-pro˛t and 
community organizations focused on education, community development, health 
and human services, and the arts, including signi˛cant funding for United Way. In 
2012, the Bank™s corporate and employee donations to United Way totaled more 
than $9 million. ˚e Foundation also provides annual college scholarships to our 
employees™ children and matches employee gi˜s to institutes of higher learning. 
Our Company also operates a separate Foundation O˙ce, through which we 
 administer 70 private and family foundations.
˝
Our employees make the Bank™s greatest impact in the community. ˚ey 
 augment our ˛nancial community sponsorships by getting personally involved 
 in causes ranging from walks supporting physical and mental health to various 
improvement and beauti˛cation projects. On May 3 of each year, our entire 
 employee family celebrates Fi˜h ˚ird Day Œ or 5/3 on the calendar Œ by feeding 
the hungry in our 12-state market. In 2012, employees provided more than 
360,000 free meals to needy families.

We respect our natural environment. We introduced recycling to an addition
-al 2,500 employees at 21 facilities in 2012, an e˝ort that built upon a landmark 
 recycling and food scrap composting program launched a year prior at our 
5,000-employee campus in Cincinnati, Ohio. We now have ˛ve LEED certi˛ed 
banking centers and have incorporated LEED requirements into future branch 
builds. Our greenhouse gas emissions have fallen 17 percent since 2007 while our 
support for green power, in the form of Renewable Energy Certi˛cates (RECs), 
increased from 3 percent to 30 percent between 2011 and 2012.

˚e Bank funded $391.9 million in a˝ordable housing and community 
 redevelopment projects through the Fi˜h ˚ird Community Development 
 Corporation, and funded economic growth through investments of $977,500 
through our Enterprise Investment Fund.  
˚e 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report will be available in May 2013. 
˙
š˙

˜˚˛˜˝˙ˆˇ˘˝

˙

     2012 ANNUAL REPORT 
FINANCIAL CONTENTS 
 Glossary of Terms 
14Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
Selected Financial Data 
15Overview 16Non-GAAP Financial Measures 
20Recent Accounting Standards 
22Critical Accounting Policies   
22Risk Factors  
26Statements of Income Analysis 35Business Segment Review 42Fourth Quarter Review  
49Balance Sheet Analysis 
51Risk Management  
56Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
79Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments  
80Management™s Assessment as to the Effectiveness of Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
81Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
82Financial Statements 
Consolidated Balance Sheets  
83Consolidated Statements of Income  
84Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 
85Consolidated Statements 
of Changes in Equity  
86Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
87  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
 Summary of Significant Accounting and Reporting Policies
 88Commitments, Contingent Liabilities and Guarantees 125
Supplemental Cash Flow Information
 95Legal and Regulato
ry Proceedings 129
Restrictions on Cash and Dividends 95Related Party Transactions 131
Securities 96Income Taxes 132
Loans and Leases 98Retirement and Benefit Plans 134
Credit Quality and the Allowance for Loan and Lease 
Losses 99Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 138
Bank Premises and Equipment 108Comm
on, Preferred and Treasury Stock 139
Goodwill 108Stock-Bas
ed Compensation 140
Intangible Assets 109Other Noninterest Income and Other Noninterest Expense 144
Variable Interest Entities 110Earnings Per Share 145

Sales of Residential Mortgage Receivables and MSRs 113F
air Value Measurements 146
Derivative Financial Instruments 115Certain Regulatory Requirements and Capital Ratios 155
Other Assets 120Parent Company Financial Statements 156
Short-Term Borrowings 121Business Segments 158
Long-Term Debt 122Subsequent Event 162
    Annual Report on Form 10-K
 163 
Consolidated Ten Year Comparison 
178 
Directors and Officers 
179 
Corporate Information 
  FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
This report contains statements that we believe are ﬁforward-look
ing statementsﬂ within the meanin
g of Section 27A of the Secur
ities Act of 1933, as amended, and Rule 175 promulgated thereunder, and Section 
21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and Rule 
3b-6 promulgated thereunder. These statements relate to our fi
nancial condition, results of operations, 
plans, objectives, future performance or 
business. They usually can be identified by the use of forward-looking language such as ﬁwill likely result,ﬂ ﬁmay,ﬂ ﬁare expec
ted to,ﬂ ﬁis anticipated,ﬂ ﬁestimate,ﬂ ﬁforecast,ﬂ ﬁprojected,ﬂ ﬁintends to,ﬂ or may include 
other similar words or phrases such as ﬁbelieves,ﬂ ﬁplans,ﬂ ﬁt
rend,ﬂ ﬁobjective,ﬂ ﬁc
ontinue,ﬂ ﬁremain,ﬂ or
 similar expressions,
 or future or conditional verbs such as ﬁwill,ﬂ ﬁwould,ﬂ ﬁshould,ﬂ ﬁcould,ﬂ ﬁmight,ﬂ 
ﬁcan,ﬂ or similar verbs. When considering these forward-looking 
statements, you should keep in mind these risks and uncertainti
es, as well as any cautiona
ry statements we may make. Moreover, you should treat 
these statements as speaking only as of the date they are made 
and based only on information then actually known to us. There a
re a number of important factors that coul
d cause future results to differ materially 
from historical performance and these forward-looking statements
. Factors that might cause such a difference include, but are n
ot limited to: (1) general economic cond
itions and weakening in the economy, 
specifically the real estate market, either nationally or in the 
states in which Fifth Third, one or more acquired entities and
/or the combined company do business, are less favorable than expected; (2) deteriorating 
credit quality; (3) political developments, wars or other hostilities may disrupt or increase volatility in securities markets 
or other economic conditions; (4) changes in the interest rate environment reduce interest 
margins; (5) prepayment speeds, loan origination and sale volu
mes, charge-offs and loan loss provisions; (6) Fifth Third™s abil
ity to maintain required capital levels and adequate sources of funding and liquidity; (7) 
maintaining capital requirements may limit Fifth Third™s operations and potential growth; (8) changes and trends in capital mar
kets; (9) problems encountered by larger or similar financial institutions may adversely 
affect the banking industry and/or Fifth Third; (10) competitive 
pressures among depository institutions increase significantly
; (11) effects of critical accounting policie
s and judgments; (12) changes in accounting 
policies or procedures as may be required by the Financial Accoun
ting Standards Board (FASB) or other regulatory agencies; (13)
 legislative or regulatory changes or actions, or significant litigation, adversely affect 
Fifth Third, one or more acquired entities and/or the combined 
company or the businesses in which Fifth Third, one or more acqu
ired entities and/or the combined company are engaged, including the Dodd-
Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act; (14) ability 
to maintain favorable ratings from rating agencies; (15) flu
ctuation of Fifth Third™s stock price; (16) ab
ility to attract and retain key personnel; (17) 
ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries; (18) potentially dilutive effect of future acquisitions on current sharehol
ders™ ownership of Fifth Third; (19) effects of 
accounting or financial results of one or more 
acquired entities; (20) difficulties from the separation of or th
e results of operations of Vantiv, LLC from Fifth Third; (21) 
loss of income from any sale or potential sale of businesses that could have an adverse 
effect on Fifth Third™s earnings and future growth; (22) ability 
to secure confidential information and deliver products and se
rvices through the use of computer systems 
and telecommunications networks; and (23) 
the impact of reputational risk created by
 these developments on such matters as bu
siness generation and retention, funding and
 liquidity. 
GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
 14  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Fifth Third Bancorp provides the following list of acronyms as a 
tool for the reader. The acronyms identified below are used in
 Management™s 
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditi
on and Results of Operations, the Consolid
ated Financial Statements and in the Note
s to 
Consolidated Financial Statements. 

 ALCO: Asset Liability Management Committee 
ALLL: Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses 
AOCI: Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 
ARM: Adjustable Rate Mortgage  ATM: Automated Teller Machine
  BBA: British Bankers™ Association
 BOLI: Bank Owned Life Insurance 
bps: Basis points BPO: Broker Price Opinion CCAR: Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review  
CDC: Fifth Third Community Development Corporation 
CFPB: United States Consumer 
Financial Protection Bureau  
C&I: Commercial and Industrial 
CPP: Capital Purchase Program 
CRA: Community Reinvestment Act 
DCF: Discounted Cash Flow DIF:
 Deposit Insurance Fund ERISA: Employee Retirement Income Security Act 
ERM: Enterprise Risk Management 
ERMC: Enterprise Risk Management Committee 
EVE: Economic Value of Equity FASB: Financial Accounting Standards Board 
FDIC: Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
FHLB: Federal Home Loan Bank 
FHLMC: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 
FICO: Fair Isaac Corporation (credit rating) 
FNMA: Federal National Mortgage Association 
FRB: Federal Reserve Bank 
FSOC: Financial Stability Oversight Council 
FTAM: Fifth Third Asset Management, Inc. 
FTE: Fully Taxable Equivalent
 FTP: Funds Transfer Pricing 
FTPS: Fifth Third Processing Solutions, now Vantiv, LLC  
FTS: Fifth Third Securities GNMA: Government National Mortgage Association 
GSE: Government Sponsored  Enterprise 
HAMP: Home Affordable Modification Program HARP: Home Affordable Refinance Program 
HFS: Held for Sale
 IFRS: International Financial Reporting Standards IPO: Initial Public Offering 
IRC: Internal Revenue Code IRLC: Interest Rate Lock Commitment 
IRS: Internal Revenue Service 
LIBOR: London InterBank Offered Rate 
LLC: 
Limited Liability Company
 LTV: Loan-to-Value 
MD&A: Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations 
MSR: Mortgage Servicing Right 
NII: Net Interest Income 
NM: Not Meaningful 
NPR:
 Notice of Proposed Rulemaking 
OCC: Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
 OCI: Other Comprehensive Income 
OFR: Office of Financial Research OREO: Other Real Estate Owned OTTI: Other-Than-Temporary Impairment 
PMI: Private Mortgage Insurance 
RSAs: Restricted Stock Awards SARs: Stock Appreciation Rights  
SEC: United States Securities and Exchange Commission SCAP: Supervisory Capital Assessment Program 
TARP: Troubled Asset Relief Program 
TBA: To Be Announced TDR: 
Troubled Debt Restructuring 
TruPS: Trust Preferred Securities 
TSA: Transition Service Agreement 
UK: United Kingdom 
U.S.: United States of America 
U.S. GAAP: Accounting principles generally accepted in the United 
States of America VaR: Value-at-Risk 
VIE: Variable Interest Entity 
VRDN: 
Variable Rate Demand Note 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  15  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following is MD&A of certain significant factors that have 
affected Fifth Third Bancorp™s (th
e ﬁBancorpﬂ or ﬁFifth Thirdﬂ) 
financial condition and results of operations during 
the periods included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, which are a part of t
his filing. Reference 
to the Bancorp incorporates the parent holdi
ng company and all consolidated subsidiaries.  TABLE 1: SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
            For the years ended December 31 ($ in
 millions, except for per share data)
  2012 
 2011 
 2010 
 2009 
 2008 
 Income Statement Data
                 Net interest income
(a) $ 3,613 
 3,575 
3,622 
  3,373 
 3,536 
Noninterest income  2,999 
 2,455 
2,729 
  4,782 
 2,946 
       Total revenue
(a)  6,612 
 6,030 
6,351 
  8,155 
 6,482 
Provision for loan and lease losses 
 303 
 423 
1,538 
  3,543 
 4,560 
Noninterest expense  4,081 
 3,758 
3,855 
  3,826 
 4,564 
Net income (loss) attributable to Bancorp 
 1,576 
 1,297 
 753 
 737 
 (2,113)
 Net income (loss) available to common shareholders 
 1,541 
 1,094 
 503 
 511 
 (2,180)
 Common Share Data
    Earnings per share, basic 
$ 1.69  1.20 
 0.63 
 0.73 
 (3.91)
 Earnings per share, diluted 
 1.66  1.18 
 0.63 
 0.67 
 (3.91)
 Cash dividends per common share 
 0.36 
 0.28 
0.04 
 0.04 
 0.75 
Book value per share 
 15.10  13.92 
13.06 
 12.44 
 13.57 
Market value per share 
 15.20  12.72 
14.68 
  9.75 
 8.26 
Financial Ratios (%)
       Return on assets 
 1.34 %1.15 
 0.67 
 0.64 
 (1.85)
 Return on average common equity 
 11.6  9.0 
 5.0 
 5.6 
 (23.0)
 Dividend payout ratio 
 21.3 
 23.3 
6.3 
 5.5 
 NM Average equity as a percent of average assets 
 11.65  11.41 
 12.22 
 11.36 
 8.78 
 Tangible common equity
(b)  8.83 
 8.68 
7.04 
 6.45 
 4.23 
Net interest margin
(a)  3.55 
 3.66 
3.66 
 3.32 
 3.54 
Efficiency
(a)  61.7 
 62.3 
60.7 
 46.9 
 70.4 
Credit Quality 
     Net losses charged off  
$ 704 
 1,172 
2,328 
 2,581 
 2,710 
Net losses charged off as a per
cent of average loans and leases
(d)  0.85 
%1.49 
3.02 
 3.20 
 3.23 
ALLL as a percent of portfolio loans and leases 
 2.16 
 2.78 
3.88 
 4.88 
 3.31 
Allowance for credit losses as a percent of portfolio loans and leases
(c)  2.37 
 3.01 
4.17 
 5.27 
 3.54 
Nonperforming assets as a percent of
 portfolio loans, leases and other 
         assets, including other real estate owned
(d) (e)  1.49  2.23 
2.79 
 4.22 
 2.38 
Average Balances
     Loans and leases, including held for sale 
$ 84,822 
 80,214 
 79,232 
 83,391 
 85,835 
 Total securities and other short-term investments 
 16,814 
 17,468 
 19,699 
 18,135 
 14,045 
 Total assets 
 117,614 
 112,666 
 112,434 
 114,856 
 114,296 
 Transaction deposits
(f)  78,116 
 72,392 
 65,662 
 55,235 
 52,680 
 Core deposits
(g)  82,422 
 78,652 
 76,188 
 69,338 
 63,815 
 Wholesale funding
(h)  16,978  16,939 
 18,917 
 28,539 
 36,261 
 Bancorp shareholders™ equity 
 13,701  12,851 
 13,737 
13,053 
 10,038 
 Regulatory Capital Ratios (%)
      Tier I risk-based capital 
 10.65 %11.91 
13.89 
 13.30 
 10.59 
 Total risk-based capital  
 14.42  16.09 
18.08 
 17.48 
 14.78 
 Tier I leverage 
 10.05  11.10 
12.79 
 12.34 
 10.27 
 Tier I common equity(b)  9.51 
 9.35 
7.48 
 6.99 
 4.37 
 (a) Amounts presented on an FTE basis. The FTE adjustment for years ended 
December 31, 2012
, 2011, 2010, 2009, and 2008 were 
$18, 
$18, $18, $19 and $22, respectively.
 (b) The tangible common equity and Tier I common equity ratios are 
non-GAAP measures. For further information, see the Non-GAAP Fin
ancial Measures section of the MD&A. 
(c) The allowance for credit losses is the sum of the 
ALLL and the reserve for unfunded commitments. 
(d) Excludes nonaccrual loans held for sale. 
(e) The Bancorp modified its nonaccrual policy in 2009 to exclude co
nsumer TDR loans less than 90 day
s past due as they were perfor
ming in accordance with restructuring terms. For comparability 
purposes, prior periods were adjusted 
to reflect this reclassification. 
(f) Includes demand, interest checking, savings, money market and foreign office deposits. 
(g) Includes transaction deposits plus other time deposits. 
(h) Includes certificates $100,000 and 
over, other deposits, federal funds purchased, 
other short-term borrowings and long-term deb
t. 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  16  Fifth Third Bancorp 
OVERVIEW Fifth Third Bancorp is a diversified financial services company 
headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio. At December 31, 2012, the 
Bancorp had $122 billion in assets, operated 15 affiliates with 1,325 
full-service Banking Centers, including 106 Bank Mart® locations 

open seven days a week inside select grocery stores, and 2,415 

ATMs in 12 states throughout th
e Midwestern and Southeastern 
regions of the United States. The Bancorp reports on four business 

segments: Commercial Banking, Branch Banking, Consumer 

Lending and Investment Advisors. The Bancorp also has a 33% 

interest in Vantiv Holding, LLC. 
This overview of MD&A highlights selected information in the 
financial results of the Bancorp and may not contain all of the 

information that is important 
to you. For a more complete 
understanding of trends, even
ts, commitments, uncertainties, liquidity, capital resources and critical accounting policies and 

estimates, you should carefully read
 this entire document. Each of 
these items could have an impact on the Bancorp™s financial 

condition, results of operations and 
cash flows. In addition, see the 
Glossary of Terms in this report for a list of acronyms included as a 
tool for the reader of this annual report on Form 10-K. The 

acronyms identified therein are 
used throughout this MD&A, as 
well as the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to 

Consolidated Financial Statements. 
The Bancorp believes that banking is first and foremost a 
relationship business where the strength of the competition and 
challenges for growth can vary in every market. The Bancorp 
believes its affiliate operating model provides a competitive 
advantage by emphasizing individual relationships. Through its 

affiliate operating model, individual
 managers at all levels within the 
affiliates are given the opportunity
 to tailor financial solutions for 
their customers. Net interest income, net interest margin and the efficiency ratio 
are presented in MD&A on an FTE basis. The FTE basis adjusts 

for the tax-favored status of 
income from certain loans and 
securities held by the Bancorp 
that are not taxable for federal 
income tax purposes. The Bancorp believes this presentation to be 

the preferred industry measurement of net interest income as it 

provides a relevant comparison between taxable and non-taxable 

amounts.  The Bancorp™s revenues are dependent on both net interest 
income and noninterest income. For the year ended December 31, 

2012, net interest income, on a FTE basis, and noninterest income 
provided 55% and 45% of total revenue, respectively. The Bancorp 
derives the majority of its revenues within the United States from 

customers domiciled in the United States. Revenue from foreign 

countries and external customers do
miciled in foreign countries is 
immaterial to the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Changes in interest rates, credit
 quality, economic trends and the 
capital markets are primary factors that drive the performance of the 
Bancorp. As discussed later in th
e Risk Management section, risk 
identification, measurement, monito
ring, control and reporting are 
important to the management of risk and to the financial 

performance and capital strength of the Bancorp.  
Net interest income is the difference between interest income 
earned on assets such as loans, le
ases and securities, and interest 
expense incurred on liabilities su
ch as deposits, short-term 
borrowings and long-term debt. Net interest income is affected by 

the general level of interest rates, 
the relative level of short-term and 
long-term interest rates, changes in
 interest rates and changes in the 
amount and composition of interest-earning assets and interest-

bearing liabilities. Generally, the rate
s of interest the Bancorp earns 
on its assets and pays on its liabilities are established for a period of 

time. The change in market interest rates over time exposes the 

Bancorp to interest rate risk through potential adverse changes to 
net interest income and financial position. The Bancorp manages 
this risk by continually analyzing and adjusting the composition of 
its assets and liabilities based on their payment streams and interest 
rates, the timing of their maturiti
es and their sensitivity to changes 
in market interest rates. Addition
ally, in the ordinary course of 
business, the Bancorp enters into certain derivative transactions as 

part of its overall strategy to manage its interest rate and prepayment 
risks. The Bancorp is also exposed to the risk of losses on its loan 

and lease portfolio, as a result of
 changing expected cash flows 
caused by borrower credit events
, such as loan defaults and 
inadequate collateral due to 
a weakened economy within the 
Bancorp™s footprint. 
Noninterest income is derived primarily from mortgage 
banking net revenue, service charges on deposits, corporate banking 

revenue, investment advisory revenue and card and processing 

revenue. Noninterest expense is primarily driven by personnel costs, 

net occupancy expenses, and technology and communication costs. 

 Senior Notes Offerings 
On March 7, 2012, the Bancorp issu
ed $500 million of senior notes 
to third party investors, and en
tered into a Supplemental Indenture 
with Wilmington Trust Company, 
as Trustee, which modified the 
existing Indenture for Senior Debt 
Securities dated as of April 30, 
2008. The Supplemental Indenture 
and the Indenture define the 
rights of the senior notes, which senior notes are represented by a 

Global Security dated as of March 7, 2012. The senior notes bear a 
fixed rate of interest of 3.50% per annum. The notes are unsecured, 
senior obligations of the Bancorp. Payment of the full principal 

amount of the notes will be due 
upon maturity on March 15, 2022. 
The notes will not be subject to re
demption at the Bancorp™s option 
at any time until 30 days prior to maturity. For additional 

information regarding long-term debt, see Note 15 of the Notes to 

the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 CCAR Results 
On March 13, 2012, the Bancorp announced the results of its capital plan submitted to the FRB as part of the 2012 CCAR. The FRB 

indicated to the Bancorp that it did not object to the following 

capital actions: a continuation of 
its quarterly common dividend of 
$0.08 per share; the redemption of
 up to $1.4 billion in certain 
TruPS and the repurchase of common shares in an amount equal to 

any after-tax gains realized by the Bancorp from the sale of Vantiv, 

Inc. common shares by either the Bancorp or Vantiv, Inc. The FRB 
indicated to the Bancorp that it did object to other elements of its 
capital plan, including potential 
increases in its quarterly common 
dividend and the initiation of other common share repurchases.  
The Bancorp resubmitted its capital plan to the FRB in the 
second quarter of 2012. The resubmitted plan included capital 

actions and distributions for the covered period through March 31, 

2013 that were substantially similar to
 those included in the original 
submission, with adjustments primar
ily reflecting the change in the 
expected timing of capital action
s and distributions relative to the 
timing assumed in the original submission. On August 21, 2012, the 

Bancorp announced the FRB did not object to the Bancorp™s 

resubmitted capital plan which included potential increases to the 

quarterly common stock dividend and potential repurchases of 

common shares of up to $600 million through the first quarter of 

2013, in addition to any increment
al repurchase of common shares 
related to any after-tax gains realized by the Bancorp from the sale 
of Vantiv, Inc. common shares by either the Bancorp or Vantiv, 
Inc. As a result, the Board of Directors authorized the Bancorp to 

repurchase up to 100 million common 
shares in the open market or 
in privately negotiated transactions
. In addition, in the third quarter 
of 2012 the Bancorp declared a quarterly common dividend of $0.10 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  17  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 per share, an increase of $0.02 per share from the second quarter of 
2012.  Vantiv, Inc. IPO 
On June 30, 2009, the Bancorp completed the sale of a majority 
interest in its processing business to Advent International. As part 
of this transaction, the processi
ng business was contributed into a 
partnership now known as Vantiv
 Holding, LLC. Vantiv, Inc., 
formed by Advent International and owned by certain funds 

managed by Advent International, acquired an approximate 51% 

interest in Vantiv Holding, LLC for cash and warrants. The Bancorp 
retained the remaining approximate 49% interest in Vantiv Holding, 

LLC and accounted for it as an 
equity method investment in the 
Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
During the first quarter of 2012, Vantiv, Inc. priced an IPO of 
its shares and contributed the net proceeds to Vantiv Holding, LLC 

for additional ownership interests. As a result of this offering, the 

Bancorp™s ownership of Vantiv Holding, LLC was reduced to 

approximately 39% and the Bancorp™s investment continued to be 

accounted for as an equity method investment in the Bancorp™s 

Consolidated Financial Statements. The impact of the capital 
contributions to Vantiv Holding, 
LLC and the resulting dilution in 
the Bancorp™s interest resulted in the recognition of a pre-tax gain of 

$115 million ($75 million after-tax) by the Bancorp in the first 

quarter of 2012. 

 
Vantiv, Inc. Share Sale 

During the fourth quarter of 2012,
 Vantiv, Inc. priced a secondary 
offering of 12,454,545 shares of Class A Common Stock of Vantiv, 
Inc. sold on behalf of the Bancorp. As a result of this offering, the 
Bancorp™s ownership of Vantiv Holding, LLC was reduced to 

approximately 33% and the Bancorp™s investment continued to be 

accounted for as an equity method investment in the Bancorp™s 

Consolidated Financial Statements
. The carrying value of the 
Bancorp™s investment in Vantiv Ho
lding, LLC was $563 million as 
of December 31, 2012. The impact of the sale of the Bancorp™s 

interest in Vantiv Holding, LLC resulted in the recognition of a pre-
tax gain of $157 million ($102 million after-tax) by the Bancorp in 
the fourth quarter of 2012. 
As of December 31, 2012, the Bancorp continued to hold 
approximately 70 million units of Vantiv Holding, LLC and a 

warrant to purchase approximately 20 million incremental Vantiv 

Holding, LLC non-voting units, both of which may be exchanged 

for common stock of Vantiv, Inc. on a one for one basis or at 

Vantiv, Inc.™s option for cash. 
In addition, the Bancorp holds 
approximately 70 million Class B 
common shares of Vantiv, Inc. 
The Class B common shares give the Bancorp voting rights, but no 

economic interest in Vantiv, Inc. Th
e voting rights attributable to 
the Class B common shares are limited to 18.5% of the voting 

power in Vantiv, Inc. at any time 
other than in connection with a 
stockholder vote with respect to a change in control in Vantiv, Inc. 

These securities are subject to 
certain terms and restrictions. 
 Accelerated Share Repurchase Transactions 
Following the Vantiv, Inc. IPO, the Bancorp entered into an 

accelerated share repurchase tr
ansaction with a counterparty 
pursuant to which the Bancorp purchased 4,838,710 shares, or 

approximately $75 million, of its outstanding common stock on 

April 26, 2012. As part of this 
transaction, and all subsequent 
accelerated share repurchase tr
ansactions in 2012, the Bancorp 
entered into a forward contract in 
which the final number of shares 
to be delivered at settlement of the accelerated share repurchase 
transaction was based on a discount to the average daily volume-

weighted average price of the Bancorp™s common stock during the 

term of the Repurchase Agreement. The accelerated share 
repurchase was treated as two 
separate transactions (i) the 
acquisition of treasury shares on the acquisition date and (ii) a 

forward contract indexed to the Bancorp™s stock. At settlement of 

the April 2012 forward contract on June 1, 2012, the Bancorp 
received an additional 631,986 shares
 which were recorded as an 
adjustment to the basis in the tr
easury shares purchased on the 
acquisition date. 
Consistent with the 2012 CCAR plan, on August 23, 2012, the 
Bancorp entered into an accelerated share repurchase transaction 

with a counterparty pursuant 
to which the Bancorp purchased 
21,531,100 shares, or approximately $350 million, of its outstanding 

common stock on August 28, 2012. At settlement of the forward 
contract on October 24, 2012, the Bancorp received an additional 
1,444,047 shares which were recorded 
as an adjustment to the basis 
in the treasury shares purchased on the acquisition date. 
Additionally, on November 6, 2012, the Bancorp entered into 
an accelerated share repurchase transaction with a counterparty 

pursuant to which the Bancorp purchased 7,710,761 shares, or 

approximately $125 million, of its outstanding common stock on 

November 9, 2012. At settlement of the forward contract on 
February 12, 2013, the Bancorp received an additional 657,917 
shares which were recorded as an adjustment to the basis in the 

treasury shares purchased on the acquisition date. 
Following the sale of a portion of the Bancorp™s shares of Class 
A Vantiv, Inc. common stock, the Bancorp entered into an 

accelerated share repurchase transaction on December 14, 2012 

with a counterparty pursuant 
to which the Bancorp purchased 
6,267,410 shares, or approximately 
$100 million, of its outstanding 
common stock on December 19, 2012. The Bancorp expects the 
settlement of the transaction to occur on March 14, 2013. 
 Redemption of TruPS 
On August 8, 2012, consistent with the 2012 CCAR plan, the 

Bancorp redeemed all $862.5 million of the outstanding TruPS 

issued by Fifth Third Capital Tr
ust VI. These securities had a 
distribution rate of 7.25% and a scheduled maturity date 

of November 15, 2067. Pursuant to the terms of the TruPS, the 
securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust VI were redeemable within 
ninety days of a Capital Treatmen
t Event. The Bancorp determined 
that a Capital Treatment Event o
ccurred upon the authorization for publication in the Federal Register of a Joint Notice of Proposed 

Rulemaking by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 

System, the FDIC and the Office of the Comptroller of the 

Currency addressing, among other matters, Section 171 of the 

Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 and providing detailed information 
regarding the cessation of Tier I risk-based capital treatment for 
outstanding TruPS. The redemption price was $25 per security, 

which reflected 100% of the liquidation amount, plus accrued and 

unpaid distributions through the actual redemption date of 

$0.422917 per security. The Bancorp recognized a $9 million loss on 
extinguishment of these TruPS within other noninterest expense in 

the Bancorp™s Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Additionally, on August 15, 20
12, the Bancorp redeemed all 
$575 million of the outstanding TruPS issued by Fifth Third Capital 
Trust V. The Fifth Third Capital Trust V securities had a 

distribution rate of 7.25% and a sc
heduled maturity date of August 
15, 2067, and were redeemable at any time on or after August 15, 
2012. The redemption price was $25 per security, which reflected 

100% of the liquidation amount, plus accrued and unpaid 

distributions through the actual redemption date of $0.453125 per 

security. The Bancorp recognized a $17 million loss on 
extinguishment within other noninterest expense in the Bancorp™s 
Consolidated Statements of Income. 
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  18  Fifth Third Bancorp 
Legislative Developments 
On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank 
Act was signed into federal law. 
This act implements changes to th
e financial services industry and 
affects the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating 
activities of financial institutions and their holding companies. The 
legislation establishes a CFPB responsible for implementing and 

enforcing compliance with consumer
 financial laws, changes the 
methodology for determining deposit insurance assessments, gives 

the FRB the ability to regulate and limit interchange rates charged to 

merchants for the use of debit cards, enacts new limitations on 

proprietary trading, broadens the scope of derivative instruments 

subject to regulation, require
s on-going stress tests and the submission of annual capital plan
s for certain organizations and 
requires changes to regulatory capital ratios. This act also calls for 

federal regulatory agencies to conduct multiple studies over the next 

several years in order to implement its provisions.  
The Bancorp was impacted by a number of the components of 
the Dodd-Frank Act which were implemented during 2011. The 

CFPB began operations on July 21,
 2011. The CFPB holds primary 
responsibility for regulating consumer protection by enforcing 
existing consumer laws, writin
g new consumer legislation, 
conducting bank examinations, monitoring and reporting on 

markets, as well as collecting 
and tracking consumer complaints. 
The FRB final rule implementing
 the Dodd-Frank Act™s ﬁDurbin 
Amendmentﬂ, which limits debit card interchange fees, was issued 

on July 21, 2011 for transactions occurring after September 30, 

2011. The final rule establishes a 
cap on the fees banks with more 
than $10 billion in assets can charge merchants for debit card 
transactions. The fee was set at $.21 per transaction plus an 
additional 5 bps of the transacti
on amount and $.01 to cover fraud 
losses. The FRB repealed Regulation Q as mandated by the Dodd-

Frank Act on July 21, 2011. Regulation Q was implemented as part 

of the Glass-Steagall Act in the 1930™s and provided a prohibition 

against the payment of interest on commercial demand deposits. 

While the total impact of the fully-implemented Dodd-Frank Act on 

Fifth Third is not currently known, the impact is expected to be 
substantial and may have an adverse impact on Fifth Third™s 
financial performance and growth opportunities. In December of 2010 and revised in June of 2011, the Basel 
Committee on Banking Supervision issued Basel III, a
 global 
regulatory framework, to enhance international capital standards. In 

June of 2012, U.S. banking regu
lators proposed enhancements to 
the regulatory capital requirements for U.S. banks, which implement 

aspects of Basel III, such as re-defining the regulatory capital 
elements and minimum capital ratios
,  introducing regulatory capital 
buffers above those minimums, re
vising the agencies™ rules for 
calculating risk-weighted assets and introducing a new Tier I 

common equity ratio. The Bancorp continues to evaluate these 

proposals and their potential impact. For more information on the 

impact of the proposed regulatory capital enhancements, refer to 

the Capital Management section of the MD&A. 
On October 9, 2012, the FRB pu
blished final stress testing rules that implement section 165(i)(1) and (i)(2) of the Dodd-Frank 
Act. The 19 bank holding companies that participated in the 2009 

SCAP and subsequent CCAR, which includes Fifth Third, are 

subject to the final stress testing rules. The rules require both 

supervisory and company-run stress tests, which provide forward-

looking information to supervisors to help assess whether 

institutions have sufficient capi
tal to absorb losses and support 
operations during adverse economic conditions.  
The FRB launched the 2013 stress testing program and CCAR 
on November 9, 2012. The CCAR requires bank holding companies 

to submit a capital plan in addition 
to their stress testing results. The 
mandatory elements of the capital plan are an assessment of the 
expected use and sources of capital over the planning horizon, a 
description of all planned capital ac
tions over the planning horizon, 
a discussion of any expected change
s to the Bancorp™s business plan 
that are likely to have a material impact on its capital adequacy or 

liquidity, a detailed description of the Bancorp™s process for 

assessing capital adequacy and the Bancorp™s capital policy. The 

stress testing results and capital plan were submitted by the Bancorp 

to the FRB on January 7, 2013. The FRB™s review of the capital plan will assess the 
comprehensiveness of the capital plan, the reasonableness of the 

assumptions and the analysis underlying the capital plan. 

Additionally, the FRB will review 
the robustness of the capital 
adequacy process, the capital policy and the Bancorp™s ability to 

maintain capital above the minimu
m regulatory capital ratios and 
above a Tier 1 common ratio of 5 percent on a pro forma basis 

under expected and stressful conditions throughout the planning 
horizon. The FRB will also assess the Bancorp™s strategies for 
addressing proposed revisions to
 the regulatory capital framework 
agreed upon by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and 

requirements arising from the Dodd-Frank Act.  
The FRB has indicated that it expects to disclose on March 7, 
2013 its estimates of participating institutions results under the FRB 

supervisory stress scenario, includ
ing capital results, which assume 
that all banks take certain consistently applied future capital actions.  
The FRB has indicated that it expects to disclose on March 14, 2013 
its estimates of participating institutions results under the FRB 

supervisory severe stress scenarios 
including capital results based on 
each company™s own base scenario
 capital actions. The FRB will 
also issue an objection or non-obj
ection to each participating 
institution™s capital plan submitted under CCAR. Additionally, as a 

CCAR institution, Fifth Third is required to disclose our own 

estimates of results under the supervisory severely adverse scenario 
using the same consistently applied capital actions noted above, and 
to provide information related to risks included in its stress testing; 

a summary description of the met
hodologies used; estimates of 
aggregate pre-provision net revenue, losses, provisions, and pro 

forma capital ratios at the end 
of the forward-looking planning 
horizon of at least nine quarters; and an explanation of the most 

significant causes of changes in
 regulatory capital ratios. These 
disclosures are required by March 31, 2013 and are to be sent to the 
FRB and publicly disclosed.  
In January of 2013, the CFPB issued several final regulations 
and changes to certain consumer protections under existing laws. 

These regulations are intended to strengthen consumer protections 

for high-cost mortgages, amend escrow requirements under the 

Truth in Lending Act, require mortgage lenders to consider the 

consumers™ ability to repay home loans before extending them 

credit, implement mortgage servicin
g rules, amend the Equal Credit 
Opportunity Act regarding appraisals
 and other written valuations 
for first lien residential mortgage 
loans and revises the Truth in Lending Act to strengthen loan or
iginator qualification requirements 
and regulate industry compensation practices. These regulations take 
effect in 2014 except for the escrow requirements and certain 

provisions of the compensation rules under the Truth in Lending 

Act which takes effect on June 1, 2013.  The Bancorp is currently 

assessing the impact these new 
regulations will have on its 
Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  19  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 2: CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
           For the years ended December 31 ($ 
in millions, except per share data)
 2012 
 2011 
 2010  
2009  
2008  
Interest income (FTE) 
$4,125 
4,236 
4,507 
4,687 
5,630 
Interest expense 
 512 
661 
885 
1,314 
2,094 
Net interest income (FTE)
  3,613 
3,575 
3,622 
3,373 
3,536 
Provision for loan and lease losses 
 303 
423 
1,538 
3,543 
4,560 
Net interest income (loss) after prov
ision for loan and lease losses (FTE)
  3,310 
3,152 
2,084 
(170)
(1,024)
Noninterest income  2,999 
2,455 
2,729 
4,782 
2,946 
Noninterest expense  4,081 
3,758 
3,855 
3,826 
4,564 
Income (loss) before income taxes (FTE)
  2,228 
1,849 
958 
786 
(2,642)
Fully taxable equivalent adjustment 
 18 18 
18 
19 
22 
Applicable income tax expense (benefit) 
 636 
533 
187 
30 
(551)
Net income (loss)
  1,574 
1,298 
753 
737 
(2,113)
Less: Net income attributab
le to noncontrolling interests 
 (2) 1 
 - 
 - 
 - 
Net income (loss) attributable to Bancorp
  1,576 
1,297 
753 
737 
(2,113)
Dividends on preferred stock 
 35 
203 
250 
226 
67 
Net income (loss) available to common shareholders
 $1,541 
1,094 
503 
511 
(2,180)
Earnings per share 
$1.69 1.20 
0.63 
0.73 
(3.91)
Earnings per diluted share 
 1.66 1.18 
0.63 
0.67 
(3.91)
Cash dividends declared per common share 
$0.36 
0.28 
0.04 
0.04 
0.75 
     Earnings Summary 
The Bancorp™s net income available to common shareholders for 

the year ended December 31, 2012 was $1.5 billion, or $1.66 per 

diluted share, which was net of $35 million in preferred stock 
dividends. The Bancorp™s net 
income available to common 
shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2011 was $1.1 billion, 

or $1.18 per diluted share, which was net of $203 million in 

preferred stock dividends. The preferred stock dividends during 

2011 included $153 million in discount accretion resulting from the 

Bancorp™s repurchase of Series F preferred stock. 
Net interest income was $3.6 billion for the years ended 
December 31, 2012 and 2011. Net interest income was positively 
impacted by an increase in average loans and leases of $4.6 billion as 
well as a decrease in interest ex
pense compared to the year ended 
December 31, 2011. Average interest-earning assets increased $4.0 

billion while average interest-bearing
 liabilities were relatively flat 
compared to the prior year. In a
ddition, net interest income in 2012 
compared to the prior year was negatively impacted by a 28 bps 

decrease in average yield on average interest-earning assets partially 

offset by a 21 bps decrease in the average rate paid on interest-
bearing liabilities, coupled with a mi
x shift to lower cost deposits. 
Net interest margin was 3.55% and 3.66% for the years ended 

December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
Noninterest income increased $544 million, or 22%, in 2012 
compared to 2011. The increase from the prior year was primarily 

due to an increase in mortgage banking net revenue, corporate 

banking revenue and other noninterest income partially offset by a 

decrease in card and processing revenue. Mortgage banking net 
revenue increased $248 million, or 41%, primarily due to an increase 
in origination fees and gains on lo
an sales partially offset by an 
increase in losses on net valuati
on adjustments on servicing rights 
and free-standing derivatives entered into to economically hedge the 

MSR portfolio. Corporate banking revenue increased $63 million, or 

18%, primarily due to increases in syndication fees, business lending 

fees, lease remarketing fees and in
stitutional sales. Other noninterest 
income increased $324 million primarily due to a $115 million gain 
from the Vantiv, Inc. IPO recognized in the first quarter of 2012 
and a $157 million gain from the sale
 of Vantiv, Inc. shares in the 
fourth quarter of 2012. Card and processing revenue decreased $55 

million, or 18%, primarily as the result of the full year impact of the 

implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act™s debit card interchange fee 

cap in the fourth quarter of 2011. 
Noninterest expense increased $323 million, or nine percent, in 
2012 compared to 2011 primarily due 
to an increase of $170 million 
in total personnel costs (salaries, wages and incentives plus 

employee benefits); an increase of $53 million in the provision for 
representation and warranty claims related to residential mortgage 
loans sold to third parties; an increase of $177 million in debt 

extinguishment costs; and a $44 million decrease in the benefit from 

the provision for unfunded commitments and letters of credit. This 

activity was partially offset by an $87 million decrease in FDIC 

insurance and other taxes. 
 Credit Summary 
The Bancorp does not originate subprime mortgage loans and does 
not hold asset-backed securities ba
cked by subprime mortgage loans 
in its securities portfolio. However, the Bancorp has exposure to 

disruptions in the capital markets and weakened economic 

conditions. Over the last few years, the Bancorp has continued to be 

negatively affected by high unem
ployment rates, weakened housing 
markets, particularly in Michigan and Florida, and a challenging 

credit environment. Credit trends have improved, and as a result, 
the provision for loan and lease 
losses decreased to $303 million in 
2012 compared to $423 million in 2011.
 In addition, net charge-offs 
as a percent of average portfolio loans and leases decreased to 

0.85% during 2012 compared to 1.49% during 2011. At December 

31, 2012, nonperforming assets as a 
percent of loans, leases and 
other assets, including OREO (excluding nonaccrual loans held for 

sale) decreased to 1.49%, compared to 2.23% at December 31, 

2011. For further discussion on credit quality, see the Credit Risk 
Management section in MD&A. 
 
Capital Summary 

The Bancorp™s capital ratios exceed
 the ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ guidelines 
as defined by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 

System. As of December 31, 2012, the 
Tier I risk-based capital ratio 
was 10.65%, the Tier I leverage ratio was 10.05% and the total risk-

based capital ratio was 14.42%.   
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  20  Fifth Third Bancorp 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES 
The Bancorp considers various measures when evaluating capital 
utilization and adequacy, including the 
tangible equity ratio, tangible 
common equity ratio and Tier I common equity ratio, in addition to 
capital ratios defined by banking 
regulators. These calculations are 
intended to complement the capital ratios defined by banking 

regulators for both absolute and 
comparative purposes. Because 
U.S. GAAP does not include capital ratio measures, the Bancorp 

believes there are no comparable U.S. GAAP financial measures to 

these ratios. These ratios are not formally defined by U.S. GAAP or 

codified in the federal banking 
regulations and, therefore, are 
considered to be non-GAAP fina
ncial measures. Since analysts and 
banking regulators may assess the Bancorp™s capital adequacy using 

these ratios, the Bancorp believes they are useful to provide 

investors the ability to assess its capital adequacy on the same basis. 
The Bancorp believes these non-GAAP measures are 
important because they reflect the level of capital available to 

withstand unexpected market c
onditions. Additionally, presentation of these measures allows readers to compare certain aspects of the 
Bancorp™s capitalization to other 
organizations. However, because 
there are no standardized definitions for these ratios, the Bancorp™s 
calculations may not be comparab
le with other organizations, and 
the usefulness of these measures to investors may be limited. As a 
result, the Bancorp encourages readers to consider its Consolidated 

Financial Statements in their entirety and not to rely on any single 

financial measure.  
The banking regulators issued pr
oposed capital rules (Basel III) 
in June of 2012 that would substantially amend the existing risk-

based capital rules (Basel I) for banks.  The Bancorp believes 

providing an estimate of its 
capital position based upon its 
interpretation of these proposed rules is important to complement 
the existing capital ratios and for comparability to other financial 

institutions.  Since these rules are in proposal stage, they are 

considered non-GAAP measures and therefore are included in the 

following non-GAAP financial measures table. 
Pre-provision net revenue is net interest income plus 
noninterest income minus noninterest expense. The Bancorp 

believes this measure is important because it provides a ready view 
of the Bancorp™s earnings before the impact of provision expense. 
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  21  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following table reconciles non-GAAP
 financial measures to U.S. GAAP as of and for the years ended December 31: 
   TABLE 3: NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
       ($ in millions)
           2012
           2011
   Income before income taxes (U.S. GAAP)
   2,210 
 1,831 
 Add: Provision expense (U.S. GAAP)
   303 
 423 
 Pre-provision net revenue
   2,513 
 2,254 
        Net income available to common shareholders (U.S. GAAP)
$  1,541 
 1,094 
Add: Intangible amortization, net of tax
   9 
 15 
Tangible net income available to common shareholders
   1,550 
 1,109 
  Total Bancorp shareholders™ equity (U.S. GAAP)
 $  13,716 
 13,201 
 Less:  Preferred stock
   (398)
 (398)
           Goodwill
   (2,416)
 (2,417)
           Intangible assets
   (27)
 (40)
 Tangible common equity, including unrealized gains / losses
   10,875 
 10,346 
 Less:  Accumulated other comprehensive income
   (375)
 (470)
 Tangible common equity, excluding unrealized gains / losses (1)
   10,500 
 9,876 
 Add:   Preferred stock
   398 
 398 
 Tangible equity (2)
   10,898 
 10,274 
     Total assets (U.S. GAAP)
 $  121,894 
 116,967 
 Less:  Goodwill
   (2,416)
 (2,417)
          Intangible assets
   (27)
 (40)
          Accumulated other comprehensive income, before tax
   (577)
 (723)
Tangible assets, excluding unrealized gains / losses (3)
 $  118,874 
 113,787 
    Total Bancorp shareholders™ equity (U.S. GAAP)
 $  13,716 
 13,201 
 Less:  Goodwill and certain other intangibles
   (2,499)
 (2,514)
           Accumulated other comprehensive income
   (375)
 (470)
 Add:  Qualifying TruPS
   810 
 2,248 
           Other
   33 
 38 
 Tier I risk-based capital
   11,685 
 12,503 
Less: Preferred stock
   (398)
 (398)
          Qualifying TruPS
   (810)
 (2,248)
          Qualified noncontrolling interests in consolidated subsidiaries
   (48)
 (50)
 Tier I common equity (4)
 $  10,429 
 9,807 
    Risk-weighted assets (5)
(a) $  109,699 
 104,945 
     Ratios:              Tangible equity (2) / (3)
  9.17 
%9.03 
           Tangible common equity (1) / (3)
  8.83 
%8.68 
           Tier I common equity (4) / (5)
  9.51 
%9.35 
        Basel III - Estimated Tier 
I common equity ratio
       Tier I common equity (Basel I)
 $  10,429 
    Add: Adjustment related to AOCI for available-for-sale securities 
  429 
    Estimated Tier I common equity under Basel III rules
(b)
   10,858 
    Estimated risk-weighted assets under Basel III rules
(c)   123,725 
    Estimated Tier I common equity ratio under Basel III rules 
 8.78 
%   (a) Under the banking agencies™ risk-based capital guidelines, assets 
and credit equivalent amounts of derivatives and off-balance 
sheet exposures are assigned to broad 
risk categories. The aggregate dollar 
amount in each risk category is multiplied by the associated 
risk weight of the category. Th
e resulting weighted values are add
ed together, along with the measure 
for market risk, resulting in the 
Bancorp™s total risk-weighted assets. 
(b) Tier I common equity under Basel III includes the unrealized gain
s and losses for available-for-sale securities. Other adjustme
nts include mortgage servicing rights and deferred tax assets subject to 
threshold limitations and deferred tax liabilities related to intangible assets. 
(c) Key differences under Basel III in the calculation of risk-weighte
d assets compared to Basel I include: (1) risk weighting for 
commitments under 1 year;
 (2) higher risk weighting for exposures to 
residential mortgage, home equity, past due loans, 
foreign banks and certain commercial real estate;
 (3) higher risk weighting for mortgage servicing ri
ghts and deferred tax assets that are under certain 
thresholds as a percent of Tier I capital;
 (4) incremental capital requirements for stress VaR; and (5) deri
vatives are differentiated between exchange clearing and over-
the-counter and the 50% risk-
weight cap is removed. The estimated Basel III risk-weighted a
ssets are based upon the Bancorp™s 
interpretations of the three d
raft Federal Register notices proposing enhancements to the regulatory 
capital requirements that were published in June of 2012.  Th
ese amounts are preliminary and subject to change depending on the
 adoption of final Basel III capital rules by the Regulatory Agencies. 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  22  Fifth Third Bancorp 
RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 
Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements provides 
a discussion of the significant new 
accounting standards adopted by 
the Bancorp during 2012 and the expected impact of significant 
accounting standards issued, but not yet required to be adopted.  
 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
The Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in 
accordance with U.S. GAAP. Certain accounting policies require 

management to exercise judgment in determining methodologies, 

economic assumptions and estimates 
that may materially affect the 
Bancorp™s financial position, result
s of operations and cash flows. 
The Bancorp's critical accounting po
licies include the accounting for 
the ALLL, reserve for unfunded commitments, income taxes, 

valuation of servicing rights, fair value measurements and goodwill. 

No material changes were made 
to the valuation techniques or 
models described below during the year ended December 31, 2012.  

 ALLL 
The Bancorp disaggregates its por
tfolio loans and leases into 
portfolio segments for purposes of determining the ALLL. The 

Bancorp™s portfolio segments include commercial, residential 

mortgage, and consumer. The Banc
orp further disaggregates its 
portfolio segments into classes for purposes of monitoring and 

assessing credit quality based on certain risk characteristics. Classes 

within the commercial portfolio 
segment include commercial and 
industrial, commercial mortgage owner-occupied, commercial 
mortgage nonowner-
occupied, commercial construction, and 
commercial leasing. The residential 
mortgage portfolio segment is 
also considered a class. Classes within the consumer portfolio 

segment include home equity, automobile, credit card, and other 

consumer loans and leases. For an
 analysis of the Bancorp™s ALLL 
by portfolio segment and credit 
quality information by class, see 
Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
The Bancorp maintains the ALLL to absorb probable loan and 
lease losses inherent in its portfolio segments. The ALLL is 
maintained at a level the Bancorp considers to be adequate and is 

based on ongoing quarterly assessments and evaluations of the 

collectability and historical loss experience of loans and leases. 

Credit losses are charged and recoveries are credited to the ALLL. 

Provisions for loan and lease losses are based on the Bancorp™s 

review of the historical credit lo
ss experience and such factors that, 
in management™s judgment, deserve consideration under existing 
economic conditions in estimating probable credit losses. The 
Bancorp™s strategy for credit risk management includes a 

combination of conservative exposure limits significantly below 

legal lending limits and conserva
tive underwriting, documentation 
and collections standards. The strategy also emphasizes 

diversification on a geographic, indu
stry and customer level, regular 
credit examinations and quarte
rly management reviews of large 
credit exposures and loans experi
encing deterioration of credit 
quality.  
The Bancorp™s methodology for determining the ALLL is 
based on historical loss rates, current credit grades, specific 

allocation on loans modified in a TDR and impaired commercial 

credits above specified thresholds and other qualitative adjustments. 

Allowances on individual commerc
ial loans, TDRs and historical 
loss rates are reviewed quarterly and adjusted as necessary based on 

changing borrower and/or collat
eral conditions and actual 
collection and charge-off experience. An unallocated allowance is 
maintained to recognize the imprecision in estimating and 

measuring losses when evaluating allowances for individual loans or 

pools of loans.  
Larger commercial loans included
 within aggregate borrower 
relationship balances exceeding $1 
million that exhibit probable or 
observed credit weaknesses, as well as loans that have been 
modified in a TDR, are subject to
 individual review for impairment. 
The Bancorp considers the current value of collateral, credit quality 

of any guarantees, the guaranto
r™s liquidity and willingness to 
cooperate, the loan structure, an
d other factors when evaluating 
whether an individual loan is impaired. Other factors may include 
the industry and geographic region of the borrower, size and 

financial condition of the borrower, cash flow and leverage of the 

borrower, and the Bancorp™s evaluation of the borrower™s 

management. When individual lo
ans are impaired, allowances are 
determined based on management™s estimate of the borrower™s 

ability to repay the loan given the availability of collateral and other 

sources of cash flow, as well as an evaluation of legal options 
available to the Bancorp. Allo
wances for impaired loans are 
measured based on the present value 
of expected future cash flows 
discounted at the loan™s effective interest rate, fair value of the 

underlying collateral or readily obs
ervable secondary market values. 
The Bancorp evaluates the collectability of both principal and 

interest when assessing the need for a loss accrual. 
Historical credit loss rates are 
applied to commercial loans that 
are not impaired or are impaired
, but smaller than the established 
threshold of $1 million and thus not subject to specific allowance 
allocations. The loss rates are derived from a migration analysis, 

which tracks the historical net charge-off experience sustained on 

loans according to their internal risk grade. The risk grading system 

utilized for allowance analysis purpos
es encompasses ten categories.  
Homogenous loans and leases in the residential mortgage and 
consumer portfolio segments are not individually risk graded. 

Rather, standard credit scoring systems and delinquency monitoring 
are used to assess credit risks, and allowances are established based 
on the expected net charge-offs. 
Loss rates are based on the trailing twelve month net charge-off history by loan category. Historical loss 

rates may be adjusted for certain pr
escriptive and qualitative factors 
that, in management™s judgment, are necessary to reflect losses 

inherent in
 the portfolio. Factors that management considers in the 
analysis include the effects of the national and local economies; 

trends in the nature and volume 
of delinquencies, charge-offs and 
nonaccrual loans; changes in loan mix; credit score migration 
comparisons; asset quality trends
; risk management and loan 
administration; changes in the in
ternal lending policies and credit 
standards; collection practices; an
d examination results from bank 
regulatory agencies and the Bancorp™s internal credit reviewers.  
The Bancorp™s primary market areas for lending are the 
Midwestern and Southeastern regi
ons of the United States. When 
evaluating the adequacy of allowances, consideration is given to 
these regional geographic concentrations and the closely associated 
effect changing economic conditions have on the Bancorp™s 

customers.  Reserve for Unfunded Commitments 
The reserve for unfunded commitmen
ts is maintained at a level 
believed by management to be sufficient to absorb estimated 

probable losses related to unfunded credit facilities and is included 
in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The 
determination of the adequacy of the reserve is based upon an 

evaluation of the unfunded credit facilities, including an assessment 

of historical commitment utilization 
experience, credit risk grading 
and historical loss rates based on credit grade migration. This 

process takes into consideration the same risk elements that are 

analyzed in the determination of the adequacy of the Bancorp 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  23  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 ALLL, as discussed above. Net adjustments to the reserve for 
unfunded commitments are included in other noninterest expense 

in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
 Income Taxes The Bancorp estimates income tax expense based on amounts 
expected to be owed to the vari
ous tax jurisdictions in which the 
Bancorp conducts business. On 
a quarterly basis, management 
assesses the reasonableness of its e
ffective tax rate based upon its 
current estimate of the amount and components of net income, tax 

credits and the applicable statutor
y tax rates expected for the full 
year. The estimated income tax expense is recorded in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are determined using 
the balance sheet method and are reported in other assets and 

accrued taxes, interest and ex
penses, respectively, in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets. Under this method, the net deferred 

tax asset or liability is based on the tax effects of the differences 

between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities, and reflects 

enacted changes in tax rates and laws. Deferred tax assets are 
recognized to the extent they ex
ist and are subject to a valuation 
allowance based on management™s judgment that realization is more 

likely than not. This analysis is performed on a quarterly basis and 

includes an evaluation of all positive and negative evidence to 

determine whether realization is more likely than not. 
Accrued taxes represent the net estimated amount due to 
taxing jurisdictions and are reported
 in accrued taxes, interest and 
expenses in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Bancorp 
evaluates and assesses the relative risks and appropriate tax 
treatment of transactions and f
iling positions after considering 
statutes, regulations, judicial precedent and other information and 

maintains tax accruals consistent wi
th its evaluation of these relative 
risks and merits. Changes to the 
estimate of accrued taxes occur 
periodically due to changes in tax rates, interpretations of tax laws, 

the status of examinations being conducted by taxing authorities 

and changes to statutory, judic
ial and regulatory guidance that 
impact the relative risks of tax po
sitions. These changes, when they 
occur, can affect deferred taxes an
d accrued taxes as well as the 
current period™s income tax expense and can be significant to the 

operating results of the Bancorp. For additional information on 

income taxes, see Note 19 of the 
Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements.  
 Valuation of Servicing Rights 
When the Bancorp sells loans through either securitizations or 

individual loan sales in accordance 
with its investment policies, it 
often obtains servicing rights. Servicing rights resulting from loan 

sales are initially recorded at fair
 value and subsequently amortized 
in proportion to, and over the period of, estimated net servicing 

revenue. Servicing rights are assessed for impairment monthly, 

based on fair value, with tempor
ary impairment recognized through 
a valuation allowance and perm
anent impairment recognized 
through a write-off of the servicing asset and related valuation 
allowance. Key economic assumptions used in measuring any 

potential impairment of the servicin
g rights include the prepayment 
speeds of the underlying loans, the weighted-average life, the 

discount rate, the weighted-average coupon and the weighted-

average default rate, as applicable. The primary risk of material 

changes to the value of the servicin
g rights resides in the potential 
volatility in the economic assumptions used, particularly the 
prepayment speeds. The Bancorp monitors risk and adjusts its 
valuation allowance as necessary to adequately reserve for 

impairment in the servicing portfo
lio. For purposes of measuring 
impairment, the mortgage servicing ri
ghts are stratified into classes 
based on the financial asset type (fixed rate vs. adjustable rate) and 
interest rates. For additional in
formation on servicing rights, see 
Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

 Fair Value Measurements
  The Bancorp measures certain fina
ncial assets and liabilities at fair 
value in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which defines fair value as the 

price that would be received to sell 
an asset or paid to transfer a 
liability in an orderly transaction be
tween market participants at the 
measurement date. Valuation techniques the Bancorp uses to 

measure fair value include the ma
rket approach, income approach 
and cost approach. The market appr
oach uses prices or relevant 
information generated by market tr
ansactions involving identical or 
comparable assets or liabilities. 
The income approach involves 
discounting future amounts to a si
ngle present amount and is based 
on current market expectations a
bout those future amounts. The 
cost approach is based on the amount that currently would be 

required to replace the service capacity of the asset. 
U.S. GAAP establishes a fair v
alue hierarchy, which prioritizes 
the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into 

three broad levels. The fair value hi
erarchy gives the highest priority 
to quoted prices in active market
s for identical assets or liabilities 
(Level 1) and the lowest priority 
to unobservable inputs (Level 3). A 
financial instrument™s categorization
 within the fair value hierarchy 
is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the 

instrument™s fair value measurement. 
The three levels within the fair 
value hierarchy are described as follows:    

 Level 1
 Œ Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities that the Bancorp has the ability 
to access at the measurement date. 
Level 2
 Œ Inputs other than quoted prices included within 
Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either 

directly or indirectly. Level 2 
inputs include: quoted prices 
for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted 

prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets 

that are not active; inputs other than quoted prices that are 
observable for the asset or liability; and inputs that are 
derived principally from or corroborated by observable 

market data by correlation or other means. 
Level 3
 Œ Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability for 
which there is little, if any, market activity at the 

measurement date. Unobservable inputs reflect the 

Bancorp™s own assumptions
 about what market 
participants would use to pric
e the asset or liability. The 
inputs are developed based on the best information 
available in the circumstances, which might include the 

Bancorp™s own financial data such as internally developed 

pricing models and discounted cash flow methodologies, 

as well as instruments for which the fair value 

determination requires significant management judgment. 

 The Bancorp's fair value measurements involve various 
valuation techniques and models, which involve inputs that are 
observable, when available. Valuation techniques and parameters 

used for measuring assets and liabilities are reviewed and validated 

by the Bancorp on a quarterly basis. Additionally, the Bancorp 

monitors the fair values of sign
ificant assets and liabilities using a 
variety of methods including the 
evaluation of pricing runs and 
exception reports based on certain analyti
cal criteria, comparison to 
previous trades and overall review and assessments for 
reasonableness. The following is a summary of valuation techniques 
utilized by the Bancorp for its significant assets and liabilities 

measured at fair value on a recurring basis. 
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  24  Fifth Third Bancorp 
Available-for-sale a
nd trading securities 
Where quoted prices are available in an active market, 

securities are classified within Level 1 of the valuation 

hierarchy. Level 1 securities include government bonds 
and exchange traded equities. 
If quoted market prices are 
not available, then fair values are estimated using pricing 

models, quoted prices of securities with similar 

characteristics, or discounted
 cash flows. Examples of 
such instruments, which are classified within Level 2 of 

the valuation hierarchy, in
clude agency and non-agency 
mortgage-backed securities, ot
her asset-backed securities, 
obligations of U.S. Government sponsored agencies, and 
corporate and municipal bonds. Agency mortgage-backed 
securities, obligations of U.S. Government sponsored 

agencies, and corporate and municipal bonds are generally 

valued using a market a
pproach based on observable 
prices of securities with similar characteristics. Non-

agency mortgage-backed securities and other asset-backed 

securities are generally valued using an income approach 

based on discounted cash flows, incorporating 
prepayment speeds, performance of underlying collateral 
and specific tranche-level attributes. In certain cases where 

there is limited activity or less transparency around inputs 

to the valuation, securities are classified within Level 3 of 

the valuation hierarchy.  

 
Residential mortgage loans held for sale and held for 

investment 
For residential mortgage loans held for sale, fair value is 
estimated based upon mortgage
-backed securities prices 
and spreads to those prices or, for certain ARM loans, 

discounted cash flow models that may incorporate the 

anticipated portfolio composition, credit spreads of asset-

backed securities with similar collateral, and market 

conditions. The anticipated portfolio composition 

includes the effect of interest rate spreads and discount 
rates due to loan characteristics such as the state in which 
the loan was originated, the loan amount and the ARM 

margin. Residential mortgage loans held for sale that are 

valued based on mortgage-backed securities prices are 

classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy as the 

valuation is based on external pricing for similar 

instruments. ARM loans classified as held for sale are also 

classified within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy due to 
the use of observable inputs in
 the discounted cash flow 
model. These observable inputs include interest rate 

spreads from agency mortgage-backed securities market 

rates and observable discount rates. For residential 

mortgage loans reclassified from held for sale to held for 

investment, the fair value estimation is based on 

mortgage-backed securities prices, interest rate risk and an 

internally developed credit component.. Therefore, these 
loans are classified within Level 3 of the valuation 
hierarchy.  Derivatives 

Exchange-traded derivatives valued using quoted prices 

and certain over-the-counter derivatives valued using 

active bids are classified within Level 1 of the valuation 

hierarchy. Most of the Bancorp™s derivative contracts are 
valued using discounted cash flow or other models that 
incorporate current market interest rates, credit spreads 

assigned to the derivative counterparties, and other market 

parameters and, therefore, are classified within Level 2 of 

the valuation hierarchy. Such 
derivatives include basic and 
structured interest rate swaps and options. Derivatives 
that are valued based upon models with significant 

unobservable market paramete
rs are classified within 
Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. At December 31, 2012, 
derivatives classified as Level 3, which are valued using an 
option-pricing model containing unobservable inputs, 

consisted primarily of warrants associated with the sale of 

the processing business to Advent International and a 

total return swap associated with the Bancorp™s sale of its 

Visa, Inc. Class B shares. Level 3 derivatives also include 

interest rate lock commitments, which utilize internally 

generated loan closing rate assumptions as a significant 
unobservable input in the valuation process. 
 In addition to the assets and liabilities measured at fair value on 
a recurring basis, the Bancorp measures servicing rights, certain 

loans and long-lived assets at 
fair value on a nonrecurring basis. 
Refer to Note 26 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

for further information on fair value measurements.  

 Goodwill
 Business combinations entered into 
by the Bancorp typically include 
the acquisition of goodwill. U.S. GAAP requires goodwill to be 

tested for impairment at the Bancorp™s reporting unit level on an 

annual basis, which for the Bancorp is September 30, and more 

frequently if events or circumst
ances indicate that there may be 
impairment. The Bancorp has determ
ined that its segments qualify 
as reporting units under U.S. GAAP.  
Impairment exists when a report
ing unit™s carrying amount of 
goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. In testing goodwill for 

impairment, U.S. GAAP permits the Bancorp to first assess 

qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not 

that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. 

If, after assessing the totality of events and circumstances, the 

Bancorp determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value 

of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing 
the two-step impairment test would be unnecessary. However, if the 
Bancorp concludes otherwise, it wo
uld then be required to perform 
the first step (Step 1) of the goodwill impairment test, and continue 

to the second step (Step 2), if necessary. Step 1 compares the fair 

value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including 

goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its 

fair value, Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test is performed to 

measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The fair value of a reporting unit is the price that would be 
received to sell the unit as a whole in an orderly transaction between 

market participants at the measurement date. Since none of the 

Bancorp™s reporting units are publicly traded, individual reporting 

unit fair value determinations cannot be directly correlated to the 

Bancorp™s stock price. To determine the fair value of a reporting 

unit, the Bancorp employs an income-based approach, utilizing the 

reporting unit™s forecasted cash 
flows (including a terminal value 
approach to estimate cash flows beyond the final year of the 
forecast) and the reporting unit™s 
estimated cost of equity as the 
discount rate. Additionally, the 
Bancorp determines its market 
capitalization based on the average of the closing price of the 

Bancorp's stock during the mont
h including the measurement date, incorporating an additional cont
rol premium, and compares this 
market-based fair value measuremen
t to the aggregate fair value of 
the Bancorp's reporting units in order to corroborate the results of 
the income approach.  
When required to perform Step 2, the Bancorp compares the 
implied fair value of a reporting unit™s goodwill with the carrying 

amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount exceeds the implied 

fair value, an impairment loss e
qual to that excess amount is 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  25  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 recognized. A recognized impairment loss cannot exceed the 
carrying amount of that goodwill and cannot be reversed in future 

periods even if the fair value of the reporting unit recovers. 
During Step 2, the Bancorp determines the implied fair value 
of goodwill for a reporting unit by assigning the fair value of the 
reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of that unit (including 

any unrecognized intangible assets) 
as if the reporting unit had been 
acquired in a business combination. The excess of the fair value of 

the reporting unit over the amounts assigned to its assets and 

liabilities is the implied fair v
alue of goodwill. This assignment 
process is only performed for purposes of testing goodwill for 

impairment. The Bancorp does not adjust the carrying values of 
recognized assets or liabilities (oth
er than goodwill, if appropriate), 
nor recognize previously unrecogn
ized intangible assets in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements as a result of this assignment 

process. Refer to Note 8 of th
e Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements for further information regarding the Bancorp™s 

goodwill. 
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  26  Fifth Third Bancorp 
RISK FACTORS 
The risks listed below present risks that could have a material 
impact on the Bancorp™s financial condition, the results of its 
operations, or its business.  
 RISKS RELATING TO ECONOMIC AND MARKET 
CONDITIONS 

 Weakness in the U.S. economy and in the real estate market, 
including specific weakness within Fifth Third™s geographic 
footprint, has adversely affected Fifth Third and may continue 
to adversely affect Fifth Third. 
If the strength of the U.S. economy in general or the strength of the 
local economies in which Fifth Third conducts operations declines 

or does not improve in a reasonable 
time frame, this could result in, 
among other things, a deterioration in credit quality or a reduced 

demand for credit, including a resultant effect on Fifth Third™s loan 

portfolio and ALLL and in the receipt of lower proceeds from the 

sale of loans and foreclosed properties. A portion of Fifth Third™s 
residential mortgage and commercial 
real estate loan portfolios are 
comprised of borrowers in Florida, whose markets have been 

particularly adversely affected by job losses, declines in real estate 

value, declines in home sale volumes, and declines in new home 

building. These factors could result
 in higher delinquencies, greater 
charge-offs and increased losses on foreclosed real estate in future 

periods, which could materially 
adversely affect Fifth Third™s 
financial condition and results of operations. 
 The global financial markets continue to be strained as a 
result of economic slowdowns and concerns, especially about 
the creditworthiness of the European Union member states 
and financial institutions in the European Union.  These 
factors could have international implications, which could 
hinder the U.S. economic recovery and affect the stability of 
global financial markets.
 Certain European Union member states have fiscal obligations 
greater than their fiscal revenue, 
which has caused investor concern 
over such countries™ ability to c
ontinue to service their debt and 
foster economic growth in their economies. During 2011, the 

European debt crisis caused spreads to widen in the fixed income 

debt markets and liquidity to be less abundant. The European debt 

crisis and measures adopted to address it have significantly 

weakened European economies. A weaker European economy may 
cause investors to lose confidence in the safety and soundness of 
European financial institutions and the stability of European 

member economies. A failure to adequately address sovereign debt 

concerns in Europe could hamper economic recovery or contribute 

to recessionary economic conditions and severe stress in the 

financial markets, including in the 
United States. Should the U.S. 
economic recovery be adversely impacted by these factors, the 

likelihood for loan and asset growth
 at U.S. financial institutions, 
like Fifth Third, may deteriorate.  
 Changes in interest rates could 
affect Fifth Third™s income and 
cash flows. Fifth Third™s income and cash flows depend to a great extent on the 

difference between the interest rates earned on interest-earning 

assets such as loans and investment securities, and the interest rates 

paid on interest-bearing liabilities such as deposits and borrowings. 
These rates are highly sensitive to many factors that are beyond 
Fifth Third™s control, including general economic conditions and the 

policies of various governmental and regulatory agencies (in 

particular, the FRB). Changes in monetary policy, including changes 

in interest rates, will influenc
e the origination of loans, the 
prepayment speed of loans, the purchase of investments, the 
generation of deposits and the rates received on loans and 
investment securities and paid on deposits or other sources of 
funding. The impact of these changes may be magnified if Fifth 
Third does not effectively manage the relative sensitivity of its assets 

and liabilities to changes in market 
interest rates. Fluctuations in 
these areas may adversely affect Fifth Third and its shareholders. 

 Potential changes in determining LIBOR could affect Fifth 
Third™s debt securities and other financial obligations. 
Beginning in 2008, concerns have been raised about the accuracy of 
the calculation of the daily LIBOR, which is currently overseen by 
the BBA. Fifth Third was not and is not a LIBOR panelist surveyed 

for LIBOR estimates. The BBA has taken steps to change the 

process for determining LIBOR by increasing the number of banks 

surveyed to set LIBOR and to strengthen the oversight of the 

process. In addition a report published in September 2012, set forth 

recommendations relating to the setting and administration of 

LIBOR, and the United Kingdom government has announced that 
it intends to incorporate these recommendations in the new 
legislation.  At the present time, it is uncertain
 what changes, if any, may be 
required or made by the United Kingdom government or other 

governmental or regulatory authorities in the method for 

determining LIBOR. Accordingly, it is not apparent whether or to 

what extent any such changes would have an adverse impact on the 

value of any LIBOR-linked debt securities issued by Fifth Third or 
any loans, derivatives and other fi
nancial obligations or extensions 
of credit for which Fifth Third is an obligor, or whether or to what 

extent any such changes would have
 an adverse effect on the value 
of any LIBOR-linked securities, loans, derivatives and other 

financial obligations or extensions of
 credit held by or due to Fifth 
Third or on Fifth Third™s financial condition or results of 

operations.  
 Changes and trends in the capi
tal markets may affect Fifth 
Third™s income and cash flows. Fifth Third enters into and m
aintains trading and investment 
positions in the capital market
s on its own behalf and manages 
investment positions on behalf of its customers. These investment 

positions include derivative financial instruments. The revenues and 

profits Fifth Third derives from ma
naging proprietary and customer 
trading and investment positions are dependent on market prices. 
Market changes and trends may re
sult in a decline in investment 
advisory revenue or investment or trading losses that may materially 

affect Fifth Third. Losses on beh
alf of its customers could expose 
Fifth Third to litigation, credit risks or loss of revenue from those 

customers. Additionally, substantial 
losses in Fifth Third™s trading 
and investment positions could lead 
to a loss with respect to those 
investments and may adversely affect cash flows and funding costs. 
 The removal or reduction in stimulus activities sponsored by 
the Federal Government and its agents may have a negative 
impact on Fifth Third™s results and operations. 
The Federal Government has intervened in an unprecedented 

manner to stimulate economic grow
th. The expiration or rescission 
of any of these programs and actions may have an adverse impact 

on Fifth Third™s operating results by increasing interest rates, 

increasing the cost of funding, and reducing the demand for loan 
products, including mortgage loans. 
   MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  27  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Problems encountered by financial institutions larger than or 
similar to Fifth Third could adversely affect financial markets 
generally and have indirect adverse effects on Fifth Third.  
 The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be 
closely interrelated as a result of 
credit, trading, clearing or other 
relationships between the instituti
ons. As a result, concerns about, 
or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to 

significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or 

defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as 

ﬁsystemic riskﬂ and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, 

such as clearing agencies, clearing
 houses, banks, securities firms 
and exchanges, with which the Bancorp interacts on a daily basis, 
and therefore could adversely affect Fifth Third. 
 Fifth Third™s stock price is volatile. 
Fifth Third™s stock price has been volatile in the past and several 

factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the future. 

These factors include: 
 Actual or anticipated variations in earnings; 
 Changes in analysts™ recommendations or projections; 
 Fifth Third™s announcements of developments related to 
its businesses; 
 Operating and stock performance of other companies 
deemed to be peers;  
 Actions by government regulators; 
 New technology used or services offered by traditional 
and non-traditional competitors; 
 News reports of trends, concerns and other issues related 
to the financial services industry;  Natural disasters; 
 Geopolitical conditions such as acts or threats of terrorism 
or military conflicts.  The price for shares of Fifth Third™s common stock may fluctuate 

significantly in the future, and thes
e fluctuations may be unrelated to 
Fifth Third™s performance. General market price declines or market 

volatility in the future could advers
ely affect the price for shares of 
Fifth Third™s common stock, and the current market price of such 

shares may not be indicative
 of future market prices.  RISKS RELATING TO FIFTH THIRD™S GENERAL 
BUSINESS 
 Deteriorating credit quality, particularly in real estate loans, 
has adversely impacted Fifth Third and may continue to 
adversely impact Fifth Third. 
When Fifth Third lends money or commits to lend money the 

Bancorp incurs credit risk or the risk of losses if borrowers do not 
repay their loans. The credit performance of the loan portfolios 
significantly affects the Bancorp™s 
financial results and condition. If 
the current economic environment were to deteriorate, more 

customers may have difficulty in 
repaying their loans or other 
obligations which could result in a higher level of credit losses and 

reserves for credit losses. Fifth Third reserves for credit losses by 

establishing reserves through a charge to earnings. The amount of 

these reserves is based on Fifth Third™s assessment of credit losses 
inherent in the loan portfolio
 (including unfunded credit 
commitments). The process for determining the amount of the 

allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded 

commitments is critical to Fift
h Third™s financial results and 
condition. It requires difficult, subjective and complex judgments 

about the environment, including analysis of economic or market 

conditions that might impair the 
ability of borrowers to repay their 
loans. Fifth Third might underestimate the credit losses inherent in its 
loan portfolio and have credit losses in excess of the amount 

reserved. Fifth Third might increase the reserve because of changing 

economic conditions, including falling home prices or higher 
unemployment, or other factors such as changes in borrower™s 
behavior. As an example, borrowers
 may "strategically default," or 
discontinue making payments on their real estate-secured loans if 

the value of the real estate is less 
than what they owe, even if they 
are still financially able to make the payments.  
Fifth Third believes that both the allowance for loan and lease 
losses and reserve for unfunded commitments are adequate to cover 

inherent losses at December 31, 2012; however, there is no 
assurance that they will be sufficient to cover future credit losses, 
especially if housing and employment conditions worsen. In the 

event of significant deterioration in economic conditions, Fifth 

Third may be required to increase reserves in future periods, which 

would reduce earnings. For more information, refer to
 the "Risk Management - Credit 
Risk Management," "Critical Acco
unting Policies - Allowance for 
Loan and Leases,ﬂ and ﬁReserve for Unfunded Commitmentsﬂ of 
the MD&A.  
 Fifth Third must maintain adequate sources of funding and 
liquidity. 
Fifth Third must maintain adequa
te funding sources in the normal 
course of business to support it
s operations and fund outstanding 
liabilities, as well as meet regulatory expectations.  Fifth Third 

primarily relies on bank deposits to
 be a low cost and stable source 
of funding for the loans Fifth Third makes and the operations of 
Fifth Third™s business. Core customer deposits, which include 

transaction deposits and other time deposits, have historically 

provided Fifth Third with a sizeable source of relatively stable and 

low-cost funds (average core depos
its funded 70% of average total 
assets at December 31, 2012). In 
addition to customer deposits, 
sources of liquidity include invest
ments in the securities portfolio, 
Fifth Third™s ability to sell or secu
ritize loans in secondary markets 
and to pledge loans to access secured borrowing facilities through 
the FHLB and the FRB, and Fifth Th
ird™s ability to raise funds in 
domestic and international money and capital markets. Fifth Third™s liquidity and ability to fund and run the business 
could be materially adversely affected by a variety of conditions and 

factors, including financial and credit market disruptions and 

volatility or a lack of market or
 customer confidence in financial 
markets in general similar to what occurred during the financial 
crisis in 2008 and early 2009, which may result in a loss of customer 
deposits or outflows of cash or collateral and/or ability to access 

capital markets on favorable terms.  
Other conditions and factors that could materially adversely 
affect Fifth Third™s liquidity and funding include a lack of market or 

customer confidence in Fifth Third or negative news about Fifth 

Third or the financial services industry generally which also may 

result in a loss of deposits and/or negatively affect the ability to 
access the capital markets; the loss of customer deposits to 
alternative investments;  inability to 
sell or securitize loans or other 
assets, and reductions in one or more
 of Fifth Third™s credit ratings. 
A reduced credit rating could adversely affect Fifth Third™s ability to 

borrow funds and raise the cost of borrowings substantially and 

could cause creditors and business 
counterparties to raise collateral 
requirements or take other actions that could adversely affect Fifth 

Third™s ability to raise capital. Many of the above conditions and 
factors may be caused by events over which Fifth Third has little or 
no control such as what occurred 
during the financial crisis. While 
market conditions have stabilized and, in many cases, improved, 

there can be no assura
nce that significant disruption and volatility in 
the financial markets will not occur in the future.  
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  28  Fifth Third Bancorp 
Other material adverse effects could include a reduction in 
Fifth Third™s credit ratings resulting from a further decrease in the 

probability of government support for large financial institutions 

such as Fifth Third assumed by the 
ratings agencies in their current 
credit ratings. If Fifth Third is unable to co
ntinue to fund assets through 
customer bank deposits or access capital markets on favorable terms or if Fifth Third suffers an increase in borrowing costs or otherwise 

fails to manage liquidity effectively; liquidity, operating margins, 

financial results and condition may be materially adversely affected. 

As Fifth Third did during the financial crisis, it may also need to 

raise additional capital through th
e issuance of stock, which could 
dilute the ownership of existing 
stockholders, or reduce or even 
eliminate common stock dividends to preserve capital. 
 Fifth Third may have more credit 
risk and higher credit losses 
to the extent loans are concentrated by location of the 
borrower or collateral. 
Fifth Third™s credit risk and credit losses can increase if its loans are 

concentrated to borrowers engaged in
 the same or similar activities 
or to borrowers who as a group may be uniquely or 
disproportionately affected by 
economic or market conditions. 
Deterioration in economic conditions
, housing conditions and real 
estate values in these states an
d generally across the country could 
result in materially higher credit losses. 

 Fifth Third may be required to repurchase residential 
mortgage loans or reimburse investors and others as a result of 
breaches in contractual representations and warranties. 
Fifth Third sells residential mort
gage loans to various parties, 
including GSEs and other financial institutions that purchase 

residential mortgage loans for investment or private label 

securitization. Fifth Third may be 
required to repurchase residential 
mortgage loans, indemnify the secu
ritization trust, investor or 
insurer, or reimburse the securitiza
tion trust, investor or insurer for 
credit losses incurred on loans in the event of a breach of 
contractual representations or warra
nties that is not remedied within 
a period (usually 60 days or less) after Fifth Third receives notice of 

the breach. Contracts for residential mortgage loan sales to the 

GSEs include various types of specific remedies and penalties that 

could be applied to inadequate res
ponses to repurchase requests. If 
economic conditions and the housing market do not recover or 

future investor repurchase d
emand and success at appealing 
repurchase requests differ from pa
st experience, Fifth Third could 
continue to have increased repurchase obligations and increased loss 
severity on repurchases, requiri
ng material additions to the 
repurchase reserve.  

 If Fifth Third does not adjust to rapid changes in the financial 
services industry, its financial performance may suffer. 
Fifth Third™s ability to deliver strong financial performance and 

returns on investment to shareholde
rs will depend in part on its 
ability to expand the scope of available financial services to meet the 
needs and demands of its customers. In addition to the challenge of 

competing against other banks in attracting and retaining customers 

for traditional banking services, Fifth Third™s competitors also 
include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment 

advisors, specialty finance and insurance companies who seek to 

offer one-stop financial services that
 may include services that banks 
have not been able or allowed to o
ffer to their customers in the past 
or may not be currently able or allowed to offer. This increasingly 
competitive environment is primarily a result of changes in 

regulation, changes in technology
 and product delivery systems, as 
well as the accelerating pace of consolidation among financial 

service providers. 
If Fifth Third is unable to grow its deposits, it may be subject 
to paying higher funding costs. 
The total amount that Fifth Third pays for funding costs is 

dependent, in part, on Fifth Third™s ability to grow its deposits. If 
Fifth Third is unable to sufficiently grow its deposits, it may be 
subject to paying higher funding co
sts.  Fifth Third competes with 
banks and other financial services companies for deposits. If 

competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, Fifth Third™s 

funding costs may increase, either because Fifth Third raises rates to 

avoid losing deposits or because 
Fifth Third loses deposits and must 
rely on more expensive sources of funding. Higher funding costs 

reduce our net interest margin and net interest income. Fifth Third™s 
bank customers could take their mon
ey out of the bank and put it in 
alternative investments, causing Fi
fth Third to lose a lower cost 
source of funding. Checking and sa
vings account balances and other 
forms of customer deposits may d
ecrease when customers perceive 
alternative investments, such as the stock market, as providing a 

better risk/return tradeoff.   The Bancorp™s ability to receive dividends from its 
subsidiaries accounts for most of its revenue and could affect 
its liquidity and ability to pay dividends. 
  Fifth Third Bancorp is a separate and distinct legal entity from its 

subsidiaries. Fifth Third Bancorp typically receives substantially all 

of its revenue from dividends from
 its subsidiaries. These dividends 
are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on Fifth Third 

Bancorp™s stock and interest and principal on its debt. Various 

federal and/or state laws and regulations, as well as regulatory 
expectations, limit the amount of dividends that the Bancorp™s 
banking subsidiary and certain
 nonbank subsidiaries may pay. 
Regulatory scrutiny of capital levels at bank holding companies and 

insured depository institution subsidiaries has increased since the 

financial crisis and has resulted in increased regulatory focus on all 

aspects of capital planning, including dividends and other 

distributions to shareholders of 
banks such as the parent bank 
holding companies. Also, Fifth Third Bancorp™s right to participate 
in a distribution of assets upon 
a subsidiary™s liquidation or 
reorganization is subject to the pr
ior claims of that subsidiary™s 
creditors. Limitations on the Bancorp™s ability to receive dividends 

from its subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on its 

liquidity and ability to pay dividends on stock or interest and 

principal on its debt. 

 The financial services industry
 is highly competitive and 
creates competitive pressures that could adversely affect Fifth 
Third™s revenue and profitability.  
 The financial services industry in which Fifth Third operates is 

highly competitive. Fifth Third competes not only with commercial 

banks, but also with insurance 
companies, mutual funds, hedge 
funds, and other companies offering
 financial services in the U.S., 
globally and over the internet. Fifth Third competes on the basis of 

several factors, including capital, access to capital, revenue 
generation, products, services, tr
ansaction execution, innovation, 
reputation and price. Over time, 
certain sectors of the financial 
services industry have become more
 concentrated, as institutions 
involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired 

by or merged into other firms. These developments could result in 

Fifth Third™s competitors gaining greater capital and other 

resources, such as a broader range of products and services and 

geographic diversity. Fifth Third may experience pricing pressures 
as a result of these factors and as some of its competitors seek to 
increase market share by reducing prices. 

  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  29  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Fifth Third and/or the holders of its securities could be 
adversely affected by unfavorabl
e ratings from rating agencies. 
 Fifth Third™s ability to access the capital markets is important to its 

overall funding profile. This access is affected by the ratings 
assigned by rating agencies to Fift
h Third, certain of its subsidiaries 
and particular classes of securities 
they issue. The interest rates that 
Fifth Third pays on its securities are also influenced by, among 

other things, the credit ratings that it, its subsidiaries and/or its 

securities receive from recognized
 rating agencies. A downgrade to 
Fifth Third or its subsidiaries™ credit
 rating could affect its ability to 
access the capital markets, increase its borrowing costs and 

negatively impact its profitability. A ratings downgrade to Fifth 
Third, its subsidiaries or their secu
rities could also create obligations 
or liabilities to Fifth Third under the terms of its outstanding 

securities that could increase Fifth Third™s costs or otherwise have a 

negative effect on its results of 
operations or financial condition. 
Additionally, a downgrade of the credit rating of any particular 

security issued by Fifth Third or
 its subsidiaries could negatively 
affect the ability of the holders of 
that security to sell the securities 
and the prices at which any such securities may be sold.  
 Fifth Third could suffer if it fails to attract and retain skilled 
personnel. 
Fifth Third™s success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract 

and retain key individuals. Competition for qualified candidates in 

the activities and markets that Fift
h Third serves is great and Fifth 
Third may not be able to hire these candidates and retain them. If 

Fifth Third is not able to hire or retain these key individuals, Fifth 
Third may be unable to execute 
its business strategies and may 
suffer adverse consequences to its business, operations and financial 

condition. In June 2010, the federal banking agencies issued joint 
guidance on executive compensation designed to help ensure that a 

banking organization™s incentive compensation policies do not 

encourage imprudent risk taking an
d are consistent with the safety 
and soundness of the organization. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act 
requires those agencies, along with the SEC, to adopt rules to 
require reporting of incentive compensation and to prohibit certain 

compensation arrangements. The federal banking agencies and the 

SEC proposed such rules in April 2011. In addition, in June 2012, 

the SEC issued final rules to 
implement Dodd-Frank™s requirement 
that the SEC direct the national 
securities exchanges to adopt 
certain listing standards related to the compensation committee of a 

company's board of directors as well as its compensation advisers. If 
Fifth Third is unable to attract an
d retain qualified employees, or do 
so at rates necessary to maintain its competitive position, or if 

compensation costs required to attract and retain employees 

become more expensive, Fifth Third™s performance, including its 

competitive position, could be materially adversely affected.  

 Fifth Third™s mortgage banking revenue can be volatile from 
quarter to quarter. 
Fifth Third earns revenue from the fees it receives for originating 

mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. When rates rise, 

the demand for mortgage loans tends to fall, reducing the revenue 

Fifth Third receives from loan originations. At the same time, 

revenue from MSRs can increase through increases in fair value. 

When rates fall, mortgage originations tend to increase and the value 

of MSRs tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue effect. 

Even though the origination of mortgage loans can act as a ﬁnatural 
hedge,ﬂ the hedge is not perfect, either in amount or timing. For 
example, the negative effect on revenue from a decrease in the fair 

value of residential MSRs is immediate, but any offsetting revenue 

benefit from more originations and the MSRs relating to the new 

loans would accrue over time. It is also possible that, because of the 
recession and deteriorating housing 
market, even if interest rates 
were to fall, mortgage originations may also fall or any increase in 

mortgage originations may not be enough to offset the decrease in 

the MSRs value caused by the lower rates.  
     Fifth Third typically uses derivatives and other instruments to 
hedge its mortgage banking interest rate risk. Fifth Third generally 

does not hedge all of its risks, and the fact that Fifth Third attempts 

to hedge any of the risks does not mean Fifth Third will be 

successful. Hedging is a complex process, requiring sophisticated 

models and constant monitoring. Fifth Third may use hedging 

instruments tied to U.S. Treasury
 rates, LIBOR or Eurodollars that 
may not perfectly correlate with the value or income being hedged. 
Fifth Third could incur significant losses from its hedging activities. 
There may be periods where Fifth Third elects not to use derivatives 

and other instruments to hedge mortgage banking interest rate risk.  

 Fifth Third uses financial models for business planning 
purposes that may not adequately predict future results. 
Fifth Third uses financial models to aid in its planning for various 

purposes including its capital and 
liquidity needs, potential charge- 
offs, reserves, and other purposes. The models used may not 
accurately account for all variables th
at could affect future results, 
may fail to predict outcomes accurately and/or may overstate or 

understate certain effects. As a 
result of these potential failures, 
Fifth Third may not adequately prepare for future events and may 

suffer losses or other setbac
ks due to these failures.  Changes in interest rates could 
also reduce the value of MSRs.
 Fifth Third acquires MSRs when it
 keeps the servicing rights after 
the sale or securitization of the lo
ans that have been originated or 
when it purchases the servicing rights to mortgage loans originated 

by other lenders. Fifth Third initially measures all residential MSRs 

at fair value and subsequently am
ortizes the MSRs in proportion to, 
and over the period of, estimated net servicing income. Fair value is 

the present value of estimated future net servicing income, 

calculated based on a number of variables, including assumptions 
about the likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. Servicing rights 
are assessed for impairment monthly, based on fair value, with 

temporary impairment recognized through a valuation allowance 
and permanent impairment recogniz
ed through a write-off of the 
servicing asset and related valuation allowance. 
Changes in interest rates can affect prepayment assumptions 
and thus fair value. When interest
 rates fall, borrowers are usually 
more likely to prepay their mortgage loans by refinancing them at a 
lower rate. As the likelihood of pr
epayment increases, the fair value 
of MSRs can decrease. Each quarter Fifth Third evaluates the fair 

value of MSRs, and decreases in fair value below amortized cost 

reduce earnings in the period in which the decrease occurs. 
 The preparation of Fifth Third™s financial statements requires 
the use of estimates that may vary from actual results. 
The preparation of consolidated fi
nancial statements in conformity 
with U.S. GAAP requires managemen
t to make significant estimates 
that affect the financial statements. See the ﬁCritical Accounting 

Policiesﬂ section of the MD&A for more information regarding 

management™s significant estimates. Additionally, Fifth Third™s 

litigation reserve is a managemen
t estimate which is regularly 
reviewed for accuracy.  Fifth Third regularly reviews its litigation reserve for adequacy 
considering its litigation risks and probability of incurring losses 
related to litigation. However, Fift
h Third cannot be certain that its 
current litigation reserves will be 
adequate over time to cover its 
losses in litigation due to higher 
than anticipated settlement costs, 
prolonged litigation, adverse judgments, or other factors that are 

largely outside of Fifth Third™s control. If Fifth Third™s litigation 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  30  Fifth Third Bancorp 
reserves are not adequate, Fifth Third™s business, financial 
condition, including its liquidity and capital, and results of 

operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, in 

the future, Fifth Third may increase its litigation reserves, which 
could have a material adverse effect on its capital and results of 
operations. 
 Changes in accounting standards or interpretations could 
impact Fifth Third™s reported earnings and financial 
condition. 
The accounting standard setters, including the FASB, the SEC and 

other regulatory agencies, periodically change the financial 
accounting and reporting standards 
that govern the preparation of 
Fifth Third™s consolidated financial statements. These changes can 

be hard to predict and can materially impact how Fifth Third 

records and reports its financial c
ondition and results of operations. 
In some cases, Fifth Third could be required to apply a new or 

revised standard retroactively, whic
h would result in the recasting of 
Fifth Third™s prior period financial statements. 

 Future acquisitions may dilute current shareholders™ 
ownership of Fifth Third and may cause Fifth Third to 
become more susceptible to
 adverse economic events. 
Future business acquisitions could be material to Fifth Third and it 
may issue additional shares of st
ock to pay for those acquisitions, 
which would dilute current shareholders™ ownership interests. 

Acquisitions also could require Fifth Third to use substantial cash or 

other liquid assets or to incur debt. In those events, Fifth Third 
could become more susceptible to economic downturns and 
competitive pressures. 

 Difficulties in combining the operations of acquired entities 
with Fifth Third™s own operations may prevent Fifth Third 
from achieving the expected benefits from its acquisitions. 
Inherent uncertainties exist when 
integrating the operations of an 
acquired entity. Fifth Third may not be able to fully achieve its 
strategic objectives and planned operating efficiencies in an 
acquisition. In addition, the markets and industries in which Fifth 

Third and its potential acquisition targets operate are highly 

competitive. Fifth Third may lose customers or the customers of 

acquired entities as a result of an acquisition. Future acquisition and 

integration activities may require Fifth Third to devote substantial 

time and resources and as a result Fifth Third may not be able to 

pursue other business opportunities.   
After completing an acquisition, Fifth Third may find certain 
items are not accounted for properl
y in accordance with financial 
accounting and reporting standards. Fifth Third may also not realize 

the expected benefits of the acquisition due to lower financial 

results pertaining to the acquired entity. For example, Fifth Third 

could experience higher charge-o
ffs than originally anticipated 
related to the acquired loan portfolio. 
 Fifth Third may sell or consider selling one or more of its 
businesses. Should it determine 
to sell such a business, it may 
not be able to generate gains on sale or related increase in 
shareholders™ equity commensurate with desirable levels. 
Moreover, if Fifth Third sold 
such businesses, the loss of 
income could have an adverse effect on its earnings and future 
growth. 
Fifth Third owns several non-strategic businesses that are not 
significantly synergistic with its 
core financial services businesses. 
Fifth Third has, from time to time, considered the sale of such 

businesses. If it were to determine to sell such businesses, Fifth 

Third would be subject to market forces that may make completion 

of a sale unsuccessful or may not be able to do so within a desirable 
time frame. If Fifth Third were to complete the sale of non-core 
businesses, it would suffer the loss of income from the sold 

businesses, and such loss of income could have an adverse effect on 

its future earnings and growth.  Fifth Third relies on its system
s and certain service providers, 
and certain failures could materially adversely affect 
operations. 
Fifth Third collects, processes and stores sensitive consumer data by 

utilizing computer systems and 
telecommunications networks 
operated by both Fifth Third and third party service providers. Fifth 

Third has security, backup and recove
ry systems in place, as well as 
a business continuity plan to ensure the system will not be 
inoperable. Fifth Third also has s
ecurity to prevent unauthorized 
access to the system. In addition, Fifth Third requires its third party 

service providers to maintain similar controls. However, Fifth Third 

cannot be certain that the measures will be successful. A security 

breach in the system and loss of 
confidential information such as 
credit card numbers and related information could result in losing 

the customers™ confidence and thus the loss of their business as well 
as additional significant costs for 
privacy monitoring activities.  Fifth Third™s necessary dependence upon automated systems to 
record and process its transaction volume poses the risk that 

technical system flaws or employee errors, tampering or 

manipulation of those systems w
ill result in losses and may be 
difficult to detect. Fifth Third may 
also be subject to disruptions of 
its operating systems arising from events that are beyond its control 

(for example, computer viruses or
 electrical or telecommunications 
outages). Fifth Third is further ex
posed to the risk that its third 
party service providers may be unab
le to fulfill their contractual 
obligations (or will be subject to
 the same risk of fraud or 
operational errors as Fifth Third). These disruptions may interfere 

with service to Fifth Third™s custo
mers and result in a financial loss 
or liability. 
 Fifth Third is exposed to cyber-security risks, including denial 
of service, hacking, and identity theft.  
Recently, there has been a well-publicized series of apparently 
related distributed denial of service attacks on large financial 

services companies, including Fifth Third Bank. Distributed denial 

of service attacks are designed 
to saturate the targeted online 
network with excessive amounts of ne
twork traffic, resulting in slow 
response times, or in some cases, causing the site to be temporarily 

unavailable. To date these attacks hare not been intended to steal 
financial data, but meant to interrupt or suspend a company™s 
Internet service. These events did 
not result in a breach of Fifth 
Third™s client data and accoun
t information remained secure; 
however, the attacks did adversely 
affect the performance of Fifth 
Third™s website and in some instances prevented customers from 

accessing Fifth Third™s website. While the event was resolved in a 

timely fashion and primarily resulted in inconvenience to our 

customers, future cyber-attacks 
could be more disruptive and 
damaging. Hacking and identity theft risks, in particular, could cause 
serious reputational harm. Cyber th
reats are rapidly evolving and 
Fifth Third may not be able to antici
pate or prevent all such attacks. 
Fifth Third may incur increasing cost
s in an effort to minimize these 
risks and could be held liable fo
r any security breach or loss.  Fifth Third is exposed to operational and reputational risk. 
Fifth Third is exposed to many types of operational risk, including 
reputational risk, legal and comp
liance risk, environmental risks from its properties, the risk of fraud or theft by employees, 

customers or outsiders, unauthor
ized transactions by employees, 
operating system disruptions or operational errors. 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  31  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  Negative public opinion can result from Fifth Third™s actual or 
alleged conduct in activities, such as lending practices, data security, 

corporate governance and acquisitions, and may damage Fifth 

Third™s reputation. Additionally, actions taken by government 
regulators and community organi
zations may also damage Fifth 
Third™s reputation. This negative pu
blic opinion can adversely affect 
Fifth Third™s ability to attract and keep customers and can expose it 

to litigation and regulatory action.  
 The results of Vantiv, LLC could have a negative impact on 
Fifth Third™s operating results and financial condition. 
During the second quarter of 2009, Fifth Third sold an approximate 
51% interest in its processing business, Vantiv, LLC (formerly Fifth 
Third Processing Solutions). As a result of the Vantiv, Inc. IPO, the 

Bancorp™s ownership of Vantiv Holding, LLC was reduced to 

approximately 39% in the first quarter of 2012. In addition, Fifth 

Third sold an approximate 6% interest during the fourth quarter of 

2012. Based on Fifth Third™s current ownership share in Vantiv 

Holding, LLC, of approximately 33%, Vantiv Holding, LLC is 

accounted for under the equity method and is not consolidated. 
Poor operating results of Vantiv, 
LLC could negatively affect the 
operating results of Fifth Third. In
 addition, Fifth Third participates 
in a multi lender credit facili
ty to Vantiv Holding, LLC and 
repayment of these loans is contingent on future cash flows from 

Vantiv Holding, LLC.  

 Weather related events or other natural disasters may have an 
effect on the performance of Fifth Third™s loan portfolios, 
especially in its coastal markets, thereby adversely impacting 
its results of operations. 
Fifth Third™s footprint stretches from the upper Midwestern to 

lower Southeastern regions of the United States. This area has 

experienced weather events includ
ing hurricanes and other natural 
disasters. The nature and level of these events and the impact of 

global climate change upon their frequency and severity cannot be 

predicted. If large scale events o
ccur, they may significantly impact 
its loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral as 
well as impairing its borrowers™ 
ability to repay their loans.  
RISKS RELATED TO THE LEGAL AND REGULATORY 

ENVIRONMENT 

 As a regulated entity, the Bancor
p is subject to certain capital 
requirements that may limit its operations and potential 
growth.  
 The Bancorp is a bank holding company and a financial holding 

company. As such, it is subject to
 the comprehensive, consolidated 
supervision and regulation of the FRB, including risk-based and 

leverage capital requirements. The Bancorp must maintain certain 

risk-based and leverage capital ratios as required by its banking 

regulators and which can change depending upon general economic 

conditions and the Bancorp™s partic
ular condition, risk profile and 
growth plans. Compliance with th
e capital requirements, including 
leverage ratios, may limit operations that require the intensive use of 

capital and could adversely affect the Bancorp™s ability to expand or 

maintain present business levels. Comprehensive revisions to the regulatory capital framework 
were proposed by the FRB, OCC, 
and FDIC in June 2012. Included 
within those revisions is the Basel III NPR, which incorporates 

changes made by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision to 
the Basel Capital framework in addition to implementing relevant 
provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Basel III NPR specifically 

revises what qualifies as regulatory capital, raises minimum 

requirements and introduces the 
concept of additional capital 
buffers. The need to maintain more and higher quality capital as well 
as greater liquidity going forward could limit our business activities, 
including lending, and our ability to
 expand, either organically or 
through acquisitions. In addition, the new liquidity standards could 

require us to increase our holdi
ngs of highly liquid short-term 
investments, thereby reducing our 
ability to invest in longer-term 
assets even if more desirable from a balance sheet management 

perspective. Moreover, although these new requirements are being 

phased in over time, U.S. Federal banking agencies have been taking 

into account expectations regarding the ability of banks to meet 

these new requirements, including under stressed conditions, in approving actions that represent uses
 of capital, such as dividend 
increases and share repurchases.  
The Bancorp™s banking subsidiary must remain well-capitalized, 
well-managed and maintain at least 
a ﬁSatisfactoryﬂ CRA rating for 
the Bancorp to retain its status 
as a financial holding company. 
Failure to meet these requirements 
could result in the FRB placing 
limitations or conditions on the 
Bancorp™s activities (and the 
commencement of new activities) and co
uld ultimately result in the 
loss of financial holding company st
atus. In addition, failure by the 
Bancorp™s banking subsidiary to meet
 applicable capital guidelines 
could subject the bank to a 
variety of enforcement remedies 
available to the federal regulat
ory authorities. These include 
limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the issuance by the 

regulatory authority of a capital directive to increase capital, and the 

termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC.  

 Fifth Third™s business, financial condition and results of 
operations could be adversely affected by new or changed 
regulations and by the manner in which such regulations are 
applied by regulatory authorities. 
 Current economic conditions, particul
arly in the financial markets, 
have resulted in government regulatory agencies placing increased 

focus on and scrutiny of the fina
ncial services industry. The U.S. 
government has intervened on an unprecedented scale, responding 

to what has been commonly referred to as the financial crisis, by 

introducing various actions and passing legislations such as the 
Dodd-Frank Act. Such programs an
d legislation subject Fifth Third 
and other financial institutions to restrictions, oversight and/or 

costs that may have an impact on 
Fifth Third™s business, financial 
condition, results of operations or
 the price of its common stock.  
New proposals for legislation and regulations continue to be 
introduced that could further substantially increase regulation of the 

financial services industry. Fifth Third cannot predict whether any 

pending or future legislation will 
be adopted or the substance and 
impact of any such new legislation on Fifth Third. Additional 
regulation could affect Fifth Third in a substantial way and could 

have an adverse effect on its business, financial condition and 

results of operations.   
During the third quarter of 2012, the OCC, a national bank 
regulatory agency, issued interpretive guidance that requires Chapter 

7 non-reaffirmed loans to be accounted for as nonperforming 

TDRs and collateral dependent loan
s regardless of their payment 
history and capacity to pay in 
the future. The Bancorp™s banking 
subsidiary is a state chartered bank which therefore is not directly 

subject to the guidance of the OCC. At December 31, 2012, the 

Bancorp had loans with unpaid
 principal balances totaling 
approximately $175 million that could potentially be impacted by 

this guidance, of which approximately 87% are current with their 

original contractual payments an
d approximately one third are 
already classified as TDRs.  
 Fifth Third is subject to various regulatory requirements that 
may limit its operations and potential growth. 
Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the safety 
and soundness of insured depository institutions and their holding 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  32  Fifth Third Bancorp 
companies, the FRB, the CFPB,  an
d the Ohio Division of Financial 
Institutions have the authority to 
compel or restrict certain actions 
by Fifth Third and its banking subsidiary. Fifth Third and its 

banking subsidiary are subject to 
such supervisory authority and, 
more generally, must, in certain 
instances, obtain prior regulatory 
approval before engaging in certain 
activities or corporate decisions. 
There can be no assurance that such approvals, if required, would 

be forthcoming or that such approvals would be granted in a timely 

manner. Failure to receive any such approval, if required, could limit 

or impair Fifth Third™s operations, restrict its growth and/or affect 

its dividend policy. Such actions 
and activities subject to prior 
approval include, but are not limited 
to, increasing dividends paid by Fifth Third or its banking subsidiary, entering into a merger or 
acquisition transaction, acquiring 
or establishing new branches, and 
entering into certain new businesses. 
 In addition, Fifth Third, as well as other financial institutions 
more generally, have recently been subjected to increased scrutiny 

from regulatory authorities stemming from broader systemic 

regulatory concerns, including with 
respect to stress testing, capital 
levels, asset quality, provisioning
 and other prudential matters, 
arising as a result of the recent fi
nancial crisis and efforts to ensure 
that financial institutions take steps to improve their risk 

management and prevent future crises.  
In some cases, regulatory agencies may take supervisory actions 
that may not be publicly disclosed, which restrict or limit a financial 

institution. Finally, as part of Fifth Third™s regular examination 

process, Fifth Third™s and its 
banking subsidiary™s respective 
regulators may advise it and its banking subsidiary to operate under 
various restrictions as a prudent
ial matter. Such supervisory actions 
or restrictions, if and in whatever manner imposed, could have a 

material adverse effect on Fifth Third™s business and results of 

operations and may not be publicly disclosed. 

 Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved 
from time to time in information-gathering requests, 
investigations and proceedings by government and self-
regulatory agencies which may lead to adverse consequences. 
Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved from 
time to time in information-gathering requests, reviews, 

investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by 

government and self-regulatory agencies, including the SEC, 

regarding their respective businesse
s. Such matters may result in 
material adverse consequences, incl
uding without limitation, adverse 
judgments, settlements, fines, penaltie
s, injunctions or other actions, 
amendments and/or restatements of Fifth Third™s SEC filings 
and/or financial statements, as app
licable, and/or determinations of 
material weaknesses in its disclosure controls and procedures. The 

SEC is investigating and has made several requests for information, 

including by subpoena, and interviews of certain of our current and 

former officers and employees and others, concerning issues which 

Fifth Third understands relate to accounting and reporting matters 

involving certain of its commercial 
loans. This could lead to an 
enforcement proceeding by the SEC which, in turn, may result in 
one or more such material adverse consequences. 
 Deposit insurance premiums le
vied against Fifth Third may 
increase if the number of bank failures increase or the cost of 
resolving failed banks increases.  
The FDIC maintains a DIF to resolve the cost of bank failures. The 

DIF is funded by fees assessed 
on insured depository institutions 
including Fifth Third. The magnitude and cost of resolving an 
increased number of bank failure
s have reduced the DIF. Future 
deposit premiums paid by Fifth Third depend on the level of the 

DIF and the magnitude and cost of future bank failures. Fifth Third 

also may be required to pay significantly higher FDIC premiums 
because market developments have
 significantly depleted the DIF 
of the FDIC and reduced the ratio of reserves to insured deposits.  
 Legislative or regulatory compliance, changes or actions or 
significant litigation, could adversely impact Fifth Third or the 
businesses in which Fifth Third is engaged. 
 Fifth Third is subject to extensive state and federal regulation, 

supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of its 

operations and limit the businesses in which Fifth Third may 

engage. These laws and regulations may change from time to time 

and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, 

depositors and the deposit insurance funds. The impact of any 
changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory 
agencies may negatively impact Fifth Third or its ability to increase 

the value of its business. Additionally
, actions by regulatory agencies 
or significant litigation against Fifth Third could cause it to devote 

significant time and resources to de
fending itself and may lead to 
penalties that materially affect Fifth Third and its shareholders. 

Future changes in the laws, including tax laws, or regulations or 

their interpretations or enforcement may also be materially adverse 
to Fifth Third and its shareholders or may require Fifth Third to 
expend significant time and resources to comply with such 

requirements. On July 21, 2010 the President of the United States signed into 
law the Dodd-Frank Act. Many parts of the Dodd-Frank Act are 

now in effect, while others are in an implementation stage likely to 

continue for several years. A number of reform provisions are likely 

to significantly impact the ways 
in which banks and bank holding 
companies, including Fifth Third 
and its bank subsidiary, conduct 
their business: 
 The newly created regulatory bodies include the 
CFPB and the FSOC. The CFPB has been given 
authority to regulate consumer financial products and 

services sold by banks and non-bank companies and 

to supervise banks with assets of more than $10 

billion and their affiliates for compliance with Federal 

consumer protection laws. Any new regulatory 

requirements promulgated by the CFPB could 

require changes to our consumer businesses, result in 
increased compliance costs and affect the streams of 
revenue of such businesses. The FSOC has been 

charged with identifying systemic risks, promoting 

stronger financial regulation and identifying those 

non-bank companies that are systemically important 

and thus should be subject to regulation by the 

Federal Reserve. In addition, in extraordinary cases 

and together with the Federal Reserve, the FSOC 
could break up financial firms that are deemed to 
present a grave threat to the financial stability of the 

United States.  The Dodd-Frank Act ﬁVolcker Ruleﬂ provisions 
prohibit banks and bank holding companies from 
engaging in certain types of proprietary trading. The 

scope of the proprietary trading prohibition, and its 

impact on Fifth Third, will depend on the definitions 

in the final rule, particularly those definitions related 

to statutory exemptions for risk-mitigating hedging 
activities; market-making; and customer-related 
activities. 
 The Volcker Rule and the rulemakings promulgated 
thereunder are also expected to restrict banks and 
their affiliated entities from investing in or 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  33  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 sponsoring certain private equity and hedge funds.  
Fifth Third does not sponsor any private equity or 

hedge funds that, under the proposed rule, it is 

prohibited from sponsoring.  As of December 31, 
2012, the Bancorp had approximately $163 million in 
interests and approximately $108 million binding 

commitments to invest in private equity funds likely 

to be affected by the Volcker rule.  It is expected that 

over time the Bancorp may need to eliminate these 

investments although it is likely that these amounts 

will be reduced over time in the ordinary course 

before compliance is required. Under the proposed 
rulemaking announced on October 11, 2011, Fifth 
Third expects to be able to hold these investments 

until July 2014 with no restriction, and be eligible to 

obtain up to three one-year extension periods, subject 

to regulatory approvals. A forced sale of some of 

these investments could result in Fifth Third 

receiving less value than it would otherwise have 

received. Depending on the provisions of the final 
rule, it is possible that other structures through which 
Fifth Third conduct business but that are not 

typically referred to as private equity or hedge funds 

could be restricted, with an impact that cannot be 

evaluated. 
 The FDIC and the Federal Reserve have adopted a 
final rule that requires bank holding companies that 
have $50 billion or more in assets, like Fifth Third, to 

periodically submit to the Federal Reserve, the FDIC 

and the FSOC a plan discussing how the company 

could be resolved in a rapid and orderly fashion if the 
company were to fail or experience material financial 
distress. In a related rulemaking, the FDIC adopted a 

final rule that requires insured depository institutions 

with $50 billion or more in assets, like Fifth Third, to 

prepare and submit a resolution plan to the FDIC. 

The initial plans for Fifth Third and its bank 

subsidiary are due December 31, 2013. Fifth Third 

and its bank subsidiary will be required to submit 
updated plans annually thereafter. The Federal 
Reserve and the FDIC may jointly impose 

restrictions on Fifth Third or its bank subsidiary, 

including additional capital requirements or 

limitations on growth, if the agencies determine that 

the institution™s plan is not credible or would not 

facilitate a rapid and orderly resolution of Fifth Third 

under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, or Fifth Third Bank 
under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, as 
amended (the ﬁFDIAﬂ), and additionally could 

require Fifth Third to divest assets or take other 

actions if it did not subm
it an acceptable resolution 
within two years after any such restrictions were 

imposed. 
 Dodd-Frank imposes a new regulatory regime on the 
U.S. derivatives markets. While some of the 
provisions related to derivatives markets went into 

effect on July 16, 2011, most of the new requirements 
await final regulations from the relevant regulatory 
agencies for derivatives, the Commodities Futures 

Trading Commission (ﬁCFTCﬂ) and the SEC. One 

aspect of this new regulatory regime for derivatives is 

that substantial oversight responsibility has been 
provided to the CFTC, which, as a result, will for the 
first time have a meaningful supervisory role with 

respect to some of our businesses. Although the 

ultimate impact will depend on the final regulations, 
Fifth Third expects that its derivatives business will 
likely be subject to new substantive requirements, 

including registration with the CFTC, margin 

requirements in excess of current market practice, 

capital requirements specific to this business, real 

time trade reporting and robust record keeping 

requirements, business conduct requirements 
(including daily valuations, disclosure of material risks 
associated with swaps and disclosure of material 
incentives and conflicts of interest), and mandatory 

clearing and exchange trading of all standardized 

swaps designated by the relevant regulatory agencies 

as required to be cleared. These requirements will 

collectively impose implementation and ongoing 

compliance burdens on Fifth Third and will 

introduce additional legal risk (including as a result of 
newly applicable antifraud and anti-manipulation 
provisions and private rights of action). Depending 

on the final rules that relate to Fifth Third™s swaps 

businesses, the nature and 
extent of those businesses 
may change.  Financial institutions may be required, regardless of 
risk, to pay taxes or other fees to the U.S. Treasury. 
Such taxes or other fees could be designed to 

reimburse the U.S. Treasury for the many 

government programs and initiatives it has taken or 

may undertake as part of its economic stimulus 
efforts. It is clear that the reforms, both under the Dodd-Frank Act 
and otherwise, will have a significant effect on the entire financial 

industry. Although it is difficult to predict the magnitude and extent 

of these effects at this stage, 
Fifth Third believes compliance with 
the Dodd-Frank Act and its implementing regulations and other 

initiatives will likely negatively impact revenue and increase the cost 

of doing business, both in terms of transition expenses and on an 
ongoing basis, and may also limit Fifth Third™s ability to pursue 
certain desirable business oppor
tunities. Any new regulatory requirements or changes to existing requirements could require 

changes to Fifth Third™s businesses, result in increased compliance 

costs and affect the profitability of such businesses. Additionally, 

reform could affect the behaviors of third parties that we deal with 

in the course of our business, su
ch as rating agencies, insurance 
companies and investors. The ex
tent to which Fifth Third can 
adjust its strategies to offset such adverse impacts also is not known 
at this time.  
 Fifth Third and other financial institutions have been the 
subject of litigation which could result in legal liability and 
damage to its reputation.   
Fifth Third and certain of its directors and officers have been 

named from time to time as defendants in various class actions and 
other litigation relating to Fifth Thir
d™s business and activities. Past, 
present and future litigation have included or could include claims 

for substantial compensatory and/or 
punitive damages or claims for 
indeterminate amounts of damages. Fifth Third is also involved 

from time to time in other reviews, investigations and proceedings 

(both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory 

agencies regarding its business. These matters also could result in 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  34  Fifth Third Bancorp 
adverse judgments, settlements, fines,
 penalties, injunctions or other 
relief. Like other large financial in
stitutions and companies, Fifth 
Third is also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct, 

including non-compliance with policies and improper use or 
disclosure of confidential informat
ion. Substantial legal liability or 
significant regulatory action against Fifth Third could materially 

adversely affect its business, fi
nancial condition or results of 
operations and/or cause significant reputational harm to its 

business. 

 Fifth Third™s ability to pay or increase dividends on its 
common stock or to repurchase its capital stock is restricted. 
Fifth Third™s ability to pay dividend
s or repurchase stock is subject 
to regulatory requirements and the need to meet regulatory 

expectations. The FRB launched the 2013 stress testing program 
and CCAR on November 9, 2012. The CCAR requires bank holding 

companies to submit a capital plan in addition to their stress testing 

results. The mandatory elements of the capital plan are an 

assessment of the expected use and sources of capital over the 

planning horizon, a description of all planned capital actions over 
the planning horizon, a discussion of any expected changes to the 
Bancorp™s business plan that are lik
ely to have a material impact on 
its capital adequacy or liquidity, a detailed description of the 

Bancorp™s process for assessing capital adequacy and the Bancorp™s 

capital policy. The stress testing results and capital plan were 

submitted to the FRB on January 7, 2013. 
The FRB™s review of the capital plan will assess the 
comprehensiveness of the capital plan, the reasonableness of the 
assumptions and the analysis underlying the capital plan. 
Additionally, the FRB will review 
the robustness of the capital 
adequacy process, the capital policy and the Bancorp™s ability to 

maintain capital above the minimu
m regulatory capital ratios and 
above a Tier 1 common ratio of 5 percent on a pro forma basis 

under expected and stressful conditions throughout the planning 

horizon. The FRB will also assess the Bancorp™s strategies for 

addressing proposed revisions to
 the regulatory capital framework 
agreed upon by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and 
requirements arising from the Dodd-Frank Act.  

 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  35  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 STATEMENTS OF INCOME ANALYSIS 
Net Interest Income 
Net interest income is the interest earned on securities, loans and 
leases (including yield-related fees) and other interest-earning assets 
less the interest paid for core deposits (includes transaction deposits 

and other time deposits) and wholes
ale funding (includes certificates 
of deposit $100,000 and over, other deposits, federal funds 

purchased, short-term borrowings and long-term debt). The net 

interest margin is calculated by dividing net interest income by 

average interest-earning assets. Net interest rate spread is the 

difference between the average yield earned on interest-earning 
assets and the average rate paid 
on interest-bearing liabilities. Net 
interest margin is typically greater than net interest rate spread due 

to the interest income earned on those assets that are funded by 

noninterest-bearing liabilities, or 
free funding, such as demand 
deposits or shareholders™ equity. 
Table 4 presents the components of net interest income, net 
interest margin and net interest rate spread for the years ended 

December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010. N
onaccrual loans and leases 
and loans held for sale have been 
included in the average loan and 
lease balances. Average outstanding 
securities balances are based on 
amortized cost with any unrealize
d gains or losses on available-for-
sale securities included in other assets. Table 5 provides the relative 

impact of changes in the balance sheet and changes in interest rates 

on net interest income.  
Net interest income was $3.6 billion for the years ended 
December 31, 2012 and 2011. Included
 within net interest income 
are amounts related to the accreti
on of discounts on acquired loans 
and deposits, primarily as a result 
of acquisitions in previous years, 
which increased net interest income by $31 million during 2012 and 

$40 million during 2011. The origin
al purchase accounting discounts 
reflected the high discount rates in the market at the time of the 

acquisitions; the total loan discounts are being accreted into net 

interest income over the remaining period to maturity of the loans 

acquired. Based upon the remaining period to maturity, and 
excluding the impact of prepayments, the Bancorp anticipates 
recognizing approximately $9 million in additional net interest 

income during 2013 as a result of 
the amortization and accretion of 
premiums and discounts on acquired loans and deposits. 
For the year ended December 31, 2012, net interest income 
was positively impacted by an increase in average loans and leases of 

$4.6 billion as well as a decrease in
 interest expense compared to the 
year ended December 31, 2011. In 
addition, net interest income 
benefited from the free funding provided by a $3.8 billion increase 
in average demand deposits in 2012 compared to 2011. Average 

interest-earning assets increased by $4.0 billion in 2012 while 

average interest-bearing liabilities we
re flat compared to the prior 
year. These benefits were offset by lower yields on the Bancorp™s 

interest-earning assets. The increase
 in average loans and leases for 
the year ended December 31, 2012 was driven primarily by an 

increase of 15% in average com
mercial and industrial loans and an 
increase of 18% in average residential mortgage loans. For more 
information on the Bancorp™s loan and lease portfolio, see the 

Loans and Leases section of the Balance Sheet analysis of MD&A. 

The decrease in interest expense was primarily the result of 

decreases in the rates paid on average interest-bearing liabilities of 

21 bps, primarily due to lower rates offered on savings account 

balances and other time deposits, compared to the year ended 

December 31, 2011, coupled with a 
continued mix shift to lower 
cost core deposits. For the year ended December 31, 2012, the net 
interest rate spread decreased to
 3.35% from 3.42% in 2011 as the 
benefit from a decrease in rates on 
average interest-bearing liabilities 
was more than offset by a 28 bps decrease in yield on average 

interest-earnings assets.   
Net interest margin was 3.55% for the year ended December 
31, 2012 compared to 3.66% for the year ended December 31, 2011. Net interest margin was impacted by the amortization and accretion 
of premiums and discounts on acquired loans and deposits that 

resulted in an increase in net in
terest margin of 3 bps during 2012 
compared to 5 bps during 2011. Exclusive of these amounts, net 

interest margin decreased 9 bps for the year ended December 31, 

2012 compared to the prior year driven primarily by the previously 

mentioned decline in the yield on average interest-earning assets and 

higher average balances on interest-e
arning assets, partially offset by 
a mix shift to lower cost core depos
its, the decline in rates paid on 
interest-bearing liabilities and an 
increase in free funding balances. 
Interest income from loans and leases decreased $37 million, or 
one percent, compared to the year ended December 31, 2011 driven 

primarily by a 29 bps decrease in 
average loans and leases yields 
attributable to loan repricing,
 mainly in the commercial and 
industrial loan portfolio as well as 
in the automobile and residential 
mortgage portfolios, partially offset
 by a six percent increase in 
average loans and leases. Interest 
income from investment securities 
and short-term investments decreased $74 million, or 12%, from the 

prior year primarily as the result of a 44 bps decrease in the average 

yield of taxable securities due to 
paydowns and the sale of higher 
yielding agency mortgage-backed securities coupled with the 

reinvestment into lower yielding securities. 
Average core deposits increased $3.8 billion, or five percent, 
compared to the year ended December
 31, 2011 primarily due to an 
increase in average interest checking deposits and average demand 
deposits partially offset by a decrease in average foreign office 

deposits and average other time depos
its. The cost of average core 
deposits decreased to 21 bps for the year ended December 31, 2012 

compared to 36 bps from the prior year. This decrease was primarily 

the result of a mix shift to lower cost core deposits as a result of 

runoff of higher priced CDs combined
 with a 64 bps decrease in the 
rates paid on average other time deposits and a 14 bps decrease in 
the rate paid on average savings deposits compared to year ended 
December 31, 2011.  
Interest expense on average wholesale funding for the year 
ended December 31, 2012 decreased $38 million, or 10%, compared 

to the prior year, primarily as the re
sult of a 49 bps decrease in the 
rate paid on average certificates $100,000 and over and a $554 

million decrease in average certifi
cates $100,000 and over, coupled 
with a $1.1 billion decrease in average long-term debt. These 
impacts were partially offset by a 16 bps increase in the rate paid on 
average long-term debt. Refer to the Borrowings section of MD&A 

for additional information on the Bancorp™s changes in average 

borrowings. During the year ended December 31, 2012, wholesale 

funding represented 24% of interest-bearing liabilities compared to 

23% during the prior year. For more information on the Bancorp™s 

interest rate risk management
, including estimated earnings 
sensitivity to changes in market interest rates, see the Market Risk 
Management section of MD&A.   
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  36  Fifth Third Bancorp 
TABLE 4: CONSOLIDATED AVERAGE BALANCE SHEET AND ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME
   For the years ended December 31 
2012 
 2011 
  2010 
      Average    Average      Average   Average 
 Revenue/ 
Yield/ 
Average  
Revenue/ 
Yield/ 
    Revenue/ 
Yield/ 
($ in millions) 
 Balance
  Cost Rate 
Balance 
 Cost Rate 
   Volume 
  Cost Rate 
 Assets                       Interest-earning assets:
                      Loans and leases:
(a)
                      Commercial and industrial loans
 $ 32,911 
$1,349 
 4.10 
%$28,546 
$1,240
 4.34 
%  $26,334 
$1,238 
 4.70
%Commercial mortgage  
 9,686 
369 
 3.81 
  10,447 
417
 3.99 
  11,585 
476 
 4.11
Commercial construction 
 835 
25 
 2.99 
  1,740 
53 3.06 
  3,066 
93 
 3.01
Commercial leases 
 3,502 
127  3.62 
  3,341 
133
 3.99 
  3,343 
147 
 4.40
Subtotal Œ commercial 
 46,934 
1,870 
 3.98 
  44,074 
1,843
 4.18 
  44,328 
1,954 
4.41
 Residential mortgage loans 
 13,370 543 
 4.06 
  11,318 
503
 4.45 
  9,868 
478 
 4.84
 Home equity 
 10,369 393 
 3.79 
  11,077 
433
 3.91 
  11,996 
479 
 4.00
 Automobile loans 
 11,849 
439 
 3.70 
  11,352 
530
 4.67 
  10,427 
608 
 5.83
 Credit card 
 1,960 
192  9.79 
  1,864 
184
 9.86 
  1,870 
201 
 10.73
 Other consumer loans/leases 
 340 
155  45.32 
  529 
136
 25.77 
  743 
116 
 15.58
 Subtotal Œ consumer 
 37,888 
1,722 
 4.54 
  36,140 
1,786
 4.94 
  34,904 
1,882 
5.39
 Total loans and leases 
 84,822 
3,592 
 4.23 
  80,214 
3,629
 4.52 
  79,232 
3,836 
4.84
 Securities: 
               Taxable 
  15,262 527 
 3.45 
  15,334 
596
 3.89 
  16,054 
650 
 4.05
 Exempt from income taxes
(a)  57 
2  3.29 
  103 
6 5.41 
  317 
13 
 3.92
 Other short-term investments 
 1,495 
4  0.26 
  2,031 
5 0.25 
  3,328 
8  0.25
 Total interest-earning assets 
 101,636 4,125 
4.06 
  97,682 
4,236
4.34 
  98,931 
4,507 
4.56
 Cash and due from banks 
 2,355 
     2,352 
    2,245 
  Other assets 
 15,695      15,335 
    14,841 
  Allowance for loan and lease losses 
 (2,072)
     (2,703)
     (3,583)
   Total assets 
$ 117,614 
    $112,666 
    $112,434 
  Liabilities and Equity
                Interest-bearing liabilities:
                Interest checking $ 23,096 
$49 
 0.22 
%$18,707 
$49 0.26 
%  $18,218 
$52 
 0.29
%Savings  
 21,393 
37 
 0.17 
 21,652 
67 0.31 
  19,612 
107 
 0.55
 Money market  4,903 
11  0.22 
 5,154 
14 0.27 
  4,808 
19 
 0.40
 Foreign office deposits 
 1,528 
4  0.27 
 3,490 
10 0.28 
  3,355 
12 
 0.35
 Other time deposits 
 4,306 
68 
 1.59  6,260 
140
 2.23 
  10,526 
276 
 2.62
 Certificates - $100,000 and over 
 3,102 
46 
 1.48  3,656 
72 1.97 
  6,083 
125 
 2.06
 Other deposits 
 27 
-  0.13 
 7 - 0.03 
  6 -  0.13
 Federal funds purchased 
 560 
1  0.14 
 345 
- 0.11 
  291 
1  0.17
 Other short-term borrowings 
 4,246 
8  0.18 
 2,777 
3 0.12 
  1,635 
3  0.21
 Long-term debt 
 9,043 
288 
 3.17 
 10,154 
306
 3.01 
  10,902 
290 
 2.65
 Total interest-bearing liabilities 
 72,204 
512 
 0.71 
 72,202 
661
0.92 
  75,436 
885 
1.17
 Demand deposits 
 27,196 
    23,389 
    19,669 
  Other liabilities 
 4,462 
    4,189 
    3,580 
  Total liabilities 
 103,862 
    99,780 
    98,685 
  Total equity 
 13,752     12,886 
    13,749 
  Total liabilities and equity 
$ 117,614 
    $112,666 
    $112,434 
  Net interest income  
  $3,613 
     $3,575
    $$3,622 
   Net interest margin 
    3.55 
%   3.66 
%   3.66
%Net interest rate spread 
    3.35 
    3.42 
   3.39
 Interest-bearing liabilities to interest-earning assets 
  71.04 
    73.92 
     76.25
 (a) The FTE adjustments included in the above table are 
$18
 for the years ended 
December 31, 2012
, 2011 and 2010. The federal 
statutory rate utilized was 
35% for all periods presented.
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  37  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 5: CHANGES IN NET INTEREST INCOME ATRRIBUTABLE TO VOLUME AND YIELD/RATE
(a) 
  For the years ended December 31
 2012 Compared to 2011
  2011 Compared to 2010
 ($ in millions) 
 Volume Yield/Rate
Total 
 Volume 
Yield/Rate
Total 
 Assets               Interest-earning assets:
               Loans and leases:
               Commercial and industrial loans
 $ 180
 (71)
  109 
  $ 100 
 (98)
  2 Commercial mortgage 
   (30)
 (18)
  (48)
    (45)
 (14)
  (59)
 Commercial construction
   (27)
 (1)
  (28)
    (42)
 2 
  (40)
 Commercial leases
   7 (13)
  (6)
    - 
 (14)
  (14)
 Subtotal Œ commercial
   130
 (103)
  27 
    13 
 (124)
 (111)
 Residential mortgage loans
   87
 (47)
  40 
    67 
 (42)
  25
 Home equity   (27)
 (13)
  (40)
    (34)
 (12)
  (46)
 Automobile loans
   23
 (114)
  (91)
    51 
 (129)
  (78)
 Credit card   9 (1)
  8 
    (1)
 (16)
  (17)
 Other consumer loans/leases
   (59)
 78
  19 
    (41)
 61 
  20
 Subtotal Œ consumer
   33
 (97)
  (64)
    42 
 (138)
 (96)
 Total loans and leases
   163
 (200)
  (37)
    55 
 (262)
 (207)
 Securities:
         Taxable 
   (2)
 (67)
  (69)
    (29)
 (25)
  (54)
 Exempt from income taxes
   (2)
 (2)
  (4)
    (10)
 3 
  (7)
 Other short-term investments
   (1)
 -  (1)
    (3)
 - 
  (3)
 Total interest-earning assets
   158
 (269)
 (111)
    13 
 (284)
 (271)
 Total change in interest income
 $ 158
 (269)
  (111)
  $ 13 
 (284)
 (271)
 Liabilities and Equity
         Interest-bearing liabilities:
         Interest checking $ 9 (9)
  - 
  $ 2 
 (5)
  (3)
 Savings 
   - (30)
  (30)
   11 
 (51)
  (40)
 Money market   (1)
 (2)
  (3)
   1 
 (6)
  (5)
 Foreign office deposits
   (6)
 -  (6)
   - 
 (2)
  (2)
 Other time deposits
   (38)
 (34)
  (72)
   (99)
 (37)
  (136)
 Certificates - $100,000 and over
   (10)
 (16)
  (26)
   (48)
 (5)
  (53)
 Federal funds purchased
   1 -  1 
   (1)
 - 
  (1)
 Other short-term borrowings
   3 2  5 
   2 
 (2)
  - Long-term debt
   (34)
 16
  (18)
   (21)
 37 
  16
 Total interest-bearing liabilities
   (76)
 (73)
  (149)
   (153)
 (71)
 (224)
 Total change in interest expense
   (76)
 (73)
  (149)
   (153)
 (71)
 (224)
 Total change in net interest income
 $ 234
 (196)
  38 
  $ 166 
 (213)
  (47)
 (a) Changes in interest not solely due to volume or yield/rate are al
located in proportion to the absolute dollar amount of change 
in volume and yield/rate. 
 Provision for Loan and Lease Losses 
The Bancorp provides as an expense an amount for probable loan 
and lease losses within the loan and 
lease portfolio that is based on 
factors previously discussed in the Critical Accounting Policies 

section. The provision is recorded to bring the ALLL to a level 

deemed appropriate by the Bancorp to cover losses inherent in the 

portfolio. Actual credit losses on loans and leases are charged 

against the ALLL. The amount of loans actually removed from the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets is referred to as charge-offs. Net 
charge-offs include current period charge-offs less recoveries on 

previously charged-off loans and leases. The provision for loan and lease losses decreased to $303 
million in 2012 compared to $423 m
illion in 2011. The decrease in 
provision expense for 2012 compared to the prior year was due to 
decreases in nonperforming loans and leases, improved delinquency 
metrics in commercial and cons
umer loans and leases, and 
improvement in underlying loss tr
ends. The ALLL declined $401 
million from $2.3 billion at December 31, 2011 to $1.9 billion at 

December 31, 2012. As of December 31, 2012, the ALLL as a 

percent of portfolio loans and leas
es decreased to 2.16%, compared 
to 2.78% at December 31, 2011.  
Refer to the Credit Risk Management section of the MD&A as 
well as Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for more detailed information on the provision for loan and lease 

losses, including an analysis of
 loan portfolio composition, 
nonperforming assets, net charge-offs, and other factors considered 

by the Bancorp in assessing the credit quality of the loan and lease 

portfolio and the ALLL.  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  38  Fifth Third Bancorp 
Noninterest Income
 Noninterest income increased $544 million, or 22%, for the yea
r ended December 31, 2012 compared to the year ended December 31,
 2011. The components of noninterest income are as follows:  
     TABLE 6: NONINTEREST INCOME
            For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
 2012 
 2011 
 2010  
2009  
2008  
Mortgage banking net revenue 
$ 845 
 597 
 647 
 553 
 199
 Service charges on deposits 
  522 
 520 
 574 
 632 
 641
 Corporate banking revenue 
  413 
 350 
 364 
 372 
 431
 Investment advisory revenue 
  374 
 375 
 361 
 326 
 366
 Card and processing revenue 
  253 
 308 
 316 
 615 
 912
 Gain on sale of the processing business 
  - 
 - 
 - 
 1,758 
 - Other noninterest income 
  574 
 250 
 406 
 479 
 363
 Securities gains (losses), net 
  15 
 46 
 47 
 (10)
 (86)
 Securities gains, net, non-qualifying hedges on mortgage servicing rights 
  3 
 9 
 14 
 57 
 120
 Total noninterest income 
$ 2,999 
 2,455 
 2,729 
 4,782 
 2,946
             Mortgage banking net revenu
e Mortgage banking net revenue increased $248 million, or 41%, in 
2012 compared to 2011.  The components of mortgage banking net 
revenue are as follows:            TABLE 7: COMPONENTS OF MO
RTGAGE BANKING NET REVENUE
          For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
  2012 
  2011  
 2010  
Origination fees and gains on loan sales 
$821 
  396 
  490 
 Net servicing revenue: 
          Gross servicing fees 
 250 
  234 
  221 
  Servicing rights amortization 
 (186)  (135)
  (137)
  Net valuation adjustments on servicing rights and free-standing derivatives  
            entered into to economically hedge MSR 
 (40)  102 
  73 
 Net servicing revenue 
 24 
  201 
  157 
 Mortgage banking net revenue 
$845 
  597 
  647 
           Origination fees and gains on loan sales increased $425 million in 
2012 compared to 2011 primarily as th
e result of a 36% increase in 
residential mortgage loan originati
ons coupled with an increase in 
profit margins on sold resident
ial mortgage loans. Residential 
mortgage loan originations incr
eased to $25.2 billion during 2012 
compared to $18.6 billion during 2011.
 The increase in originations 
is primarily due to strong refina
ncing activity as mortgage rates 
remain at historical lows coupled 
with an increase in refinancing 
activity under the HARP 2.0 program.  
Net servicing revenue is comprised of gross servicing fees and 
related servicing rights amortization as well as valuation adjustments 
on MSRs and mark-to-market ad
justments on both settled and 
outstanding free-standing derivati
ve financial instruments used to 
economically hedge the MSR portfolio. Net servicing revenue 

decreased $177 million in 2012 compared to 2011 driven primarily 

by decreases of $142 million in net valuation adjustments. 

Additionally, servicing rights amor
tization increased by $51 million 
in 2012 compared to 2011 driven by higher prepayments due to 

declining market interest rates and increased MSR volume. 
The net valuation adjustment loss of $40 million during 2012 
included $103 million of temporary impairment on the MSRs 

partially offset by $63 million in 
gains from derivatives economically 
hedging the MSRs. Mortgage rate
s decreased during 2012 compared 
to 2011 causing modeled prepayments
 speeds to increase, which led 
to the temporary impairment on the servicing rights for the year 

ended 2012. In the second half 
of 2011 and continuing throughout 
2012, the Bancorp utilized a macro hedging strategy for the MSR 
portfolio whereby it reduced the amount of hedges and relied on 
income from new production to offset declines in the net valuation 

of MSRs and the related hedges of
 the MSR portfolio in the down 
rate environment. The net valuati
on adjustment gain of $102 million 
during 2011 included $344 million in gains from derivatives 
economically hedging the MSRs part
ially offset by $242 million in 
temporary impairment on the MSR portfolio. The gain in the net 
valuation adjustment in 2011 was reflective of refinancing activity in 
recent years that contributed to prepayments being less sensitive to 

lower mortgage rates due to cust
omers taking advantage of lower 
rates in earlier periods as well as 
the impact of tighter underwriting 
standards. Additionally, the net MSR/hedge position benefited from 

the positive carry of the hedge and the widening spread between 

mortgage and swap rates. Gross se
rvicing fees increased $16 million 
in 2012 compared to 2011 as a result of an increase in the size of the 
Bancorp™s servicing portfolio. The 
Bancorp™s total residential loans 
serviced as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 was $77.3 billion and 

$70.6 billion, respectively, with
 $62.5 billion and $57.1 billion, 
respectively, of residential mortgage loans serviced for others. 
Servicing rights are deemed impaired when a borrower™s loan 
rate is distinctly higher than prevailing rates. Impairment on 

servicing rights is reversed when 
the prevailing rates return to a level 
commensurate with the borrower™s loan rate. Further detail on the 
valuation of MSRs can be found in Note 11 of the Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements. The Bancorp maintains a non-

qualifying hedging strategy to manage a portion of the risk 

associated with changes in the 
valuation on the MSR portfolio. See 
Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for 

more information on the free-standing derivatives used to 

economically hedge the MSR portfolio. 
In addition to the derivative positions used to economically 
hedge the MSR portfolio, the Bancorp acquires various securities as 
a component of its non-qualifying hedging strategy. Net gains on 

sales of these securities were $3 million and $9 million in 2012 and 

2011, respectively, and were recorded
 in securities gains, net, non-
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  39  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 qualifying hedges on mortgage servicing rights in the Bancorp™s 
Consolidated Statements of Income. 
 Service charges on deposits 
Service charges on deposits increased $2 million in 2012 compared 
to 2011. Commercial deposit revenue increased by $20 million in 

2012 compared to 2011 due to new customer relationships offset by 

an $18 million decrease in consumer deposit revenue primarily due 

to the elimination of daily overdraft fees on continuing consumer 

overdraft positions which took effect in the second quarter of 2012. 
 Corporate banking revenue Corporate banking revenue increased $63 million in 2012 compared 
to 2011. The increase from the prior year was primarily the result of 

increases in syndication fees
, business lending fees, lease 
remarketing fees and institutional sales. 
  Investment advisory revenue Investment advisory revenue decreased $1 million in 2012 

compared to 2011. The decrease was primarily driven by a decline in 

mutual fund fees due to the sale of certain FTAM funds during the 
third quarter of 2012 which was partially offset by the positive 
impact of an overall increase in equity and bond market values. As 

of December 31, 2012, the Bancorp had approximately $308 billion 

in total assets under care and managed $27 billion in assets for 

individuals, corporations and 
not-for-profit organizations. 
 
Card and processing revenue 
Card and processing revenue decreased $55 million in 2012 
compared to 2011.  The decrease was primarily the result of the 
impact of the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act™s debit card 

interchange fee cap in the fourth quarter of 2011 partially offset by 

increased debit and credit card transaction volumes, higher levels of 

consumer spending, and new products. 
 Other noninterest income
         The major components of other noninterest income are as follows:
     TABLE 8: COMPONENTS OF OTHER NONINTEREST INCOME
         For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
 2012 
  2011 
 2010 
 Gain on Vantiv, Inc. IPO and sale of Vantiv, Inc. shares 
$272 
- - Net gain from warrant and put options associat
ed with sale of the processing business 
 67 
39 
5 Equity method income from interest in Vantiv Holding, LLC 
 61 57 
26 
Operating lease income 
 60 
58 
62 
Cardholder fees 
 46 
41 
36 
BOLI income 
 35 
41 
194 
Banking center income 
 32 
27 
22 
Insurance income  28 
28 
38 
Consumer loan and lease fees 
 27 
31 
32 
Gain on loan sales 
 20 
37 
51 
TSA revenue 
 1 21 
49 
Loss on swap associated with the sa
le of Visa, Inc. class B shares 
 (45)(83)
(19)
Loss on sale of OREO 
 (57)(71)
(78)
Other, net 
 27 
24 
(12)
Total other noninterest income 
$574 
250 
406 
         Other noninterest income increased $324 million in 2012 compared 
to 2011 primarily due to an $115 million gain from the Vantiv, Inc. 

IPO recognized in the first quarter
 of 2012 and a $157 million gain 
from the sale of Vantiv, Inc. shar
es in the fourth quarter of 2012. 
Compared to 2011, losses from 
fair value adjustments on 
commercial loans designated as held for sale, recorded in the 

ﬁotherﬂ caption above, were reduced by $38 million. Additionally, 

other noninterest income included a 
$38 million increase in income 
related to the Visa total return swap which had a negative valuation 

adjustment of $45 million in 2012 compared with a negative 

valuation adjustment of $83 million in 2011. The $61 million in 
equity method income from the Bancorp™s interest in Vantiv 
Holding, LLC recorded in 2012 was reduced by $34 million in debt 

termination charges incurred in c
onnection with the refinancing of 
Vantiv Holding, LLC debt which occurred in the first quarter of 
2012. The net gain from warrant and put options associated with 

the sale of the processing business increased by $28 million and the 
loss on the sale of OREO decreased by $14 million in 2012 
compared to 2011. These impacts were partially offset by $21 

million in lower of cost or market adjustments associated with bank 

premises incurred during 2012, reco
rded in the ﬁotherﬂ caption, 
along with a $20 million decrease in TSA revenue. As part of the 

sale of the processing business, in 2009, the Bancorp entered into a 

TSA with the processing business. For additional information on 

the valuation of the swap associated 
with the sale of Visa, Inc. Class 
B shares and the valuation of wa
rrants and put options associated 
with the sale of the processing business, see Note 26 of the Notes 

to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  40  Fifth Third Bancorp 
TABLE 9: NONINTEREST EXPENSE
           For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
  2012 
 2011 
 2010  
2009  
2008  
Salaries, wages and incentives 
$1,6071,478 
1,430 
 1,339 
1,337 
Employee benefits  371330 
314 
 311 
278 
Net occupancy expense 
 302
305 
298 
 308 
300 
Technology and communications 
 196188 
189 
 181 
191 
Card and processing expense 
 121120 
108 
 193 
274 
Equipment expense 
 110113 
122 
 123 
130 
Goodwill impairment 
 -- -  - 
965 
Other noninterest expense 
 1,3741,224 
1,394 
 1,371 
1,089 
Total noninterest expense 
$4,081
3,758 
3,855 
 3,826 
4,564 
Efficiency ratio 
  61.7
%  62.3 
 60.7 
 46.9 
 70.4 
     Noninterest Expense
 Total noninterest expense increased $323 million, or nine percent, in 

2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to an increase in total 

personnel costs (salaries, wages and incentives plus employee 
benefits) and other noninterest expense. Total personnel costs 
increased $170 million, or nine per
cent, in 2012 compared to 2011 
due to an increase in base and incentive compensation primarily 
driven by higher compensation costs as a result of improved 
financial performance and production levels, as well as higher 

employee benefits expense due to increases in medical costs under 

the Bancorp™s self-insured medical 
plan and an increase in other 
employee benefits. Full time equivalent employees totalled 20,798 at 
December 31, 2012 compared to 21,334 at December 31, 2011. 
 The major components of other noninterest expense are as follows: 
        TABLE 10: COMPONENTS OF OTHER NONINTEREST EXPENSE
        For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
  2012 
 2011 
 2010 
 Losses and adjustments 
$187  129 
 187 
 Loan and lease 
 183  195 
 211 
 Loss (gain) on debt extinguishment 
 169  (8)
 17 
 Marketing 
 128  115 
 98 
 FDIC insurance and other taxes 
 114  201 
 242 
 Impairment of affordable housing investments 
 90 
 85 
 100 
 Professional service fees 
 56 
 58 
 77 
 Travel 
 52 
 52 
 51 
 Postal and courier 
 48 
 49 
 48 
 Operating lease 
 43 
 41 
 41 
 Data processing 
 40 
 29 
 24 
 Recruitment and education 
 28 
 31 
 31 
 OREO expense 
 21  34 
 33 
 Insurance  18  25 
 42 
 Supplies 
 17  18 
 24 
 Intangible asset amortization 
 13  22 
 43 
 Provision (benefit) for unfunded co
mmitments and letters of credit 
 (2) (46)
 (24)
 Other, net 
 169  194 
 149 
 Total other noninterest expense 
$ 1,374 
  1,224 
  1,394 
         Total other noninterest expense increased $150 million, or 12%, in 
2012 compared to 2011 primarily due to increases in the provision 

for representation and warranty claims, recorded in losses and 

adjustments, a decrease in the benefit from the reserve for unfunded 

commitments and letters of credit and an increase in debt 

extinguishment losses, partially offset by a decrease in FDIC 

insurance and other taxes. 
The provision for representation and warranty claims increased 
$53 million in 2012 compared to 2011 
primarily due to an increase 
in the reserve as a result of additional information obtained from 

FHLMC regarding future mortgage re
purchase and file requests. As 
such, the Bancorp was able to be
tter estimate the losses that are 
probable on loans sold to FHLMC with representation and warranty 

provisions. Debt extinguishment costs increased by $177 million in 
2012 compared to 2011. During the third quarter of 2012, the 
Bancorp incurred $26 million of debt extinguishment costs 
associated with the redemption of 
the outstanding TruPS issued by 
Fifth Third Capital Trust V and Fifth Third Capital Trust VI. In 

addition, during the fourth quarter of 2012 the Bancorp incurred 
$134 million of debt extinguishment costs associated with the 
termination of $1 billion of FHLB debt. FDIC insurance and other 

taxes decreased $87 million in 2012 compared to 2011. The decrease 

in FDIC insurance and other taxes 
is primarily attributable to a 
decrease in the assessment rate due to changes in the level and 

measurement of higher risk assets and improved credit quality 

metrics. In addition, the provisi
on for unfunded commitments and 
letters of credit was a benefit of $2 million in 2012 compared to a 
benefit of $46 million in 2011. The decrease in the benefit recorded 

in each period reflects an increase in unfunded commitments for 

which the Bancorp holds a reserve partially offset by a decline in 

estimated loss rates due to improved credit trends. For additional 

information on the TruPS redemptions and FHLB debt 

termination, see Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial 

Statements. The Bancorp continues to focus on efficiency initiatives as part 
of its core emphasis on operating leverage and expense control. The 

efficiency ratio (noninterest expe
nse divided by the sum of net 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  41  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 interest income (FTE) and noninterest income) 
was 61.7% for 2012 compared to 62.3% in 2011. 
 Applicable Income Taxes 
Applicable income tax expense for all periods includes the benefit 
from tax-exempt income, tax-advant
aged investments, certain gains 
on sales of leveraged leases that are exempt from federal taxation 
and tax credits, partially offset by the effect of certain nondeductible 
expenses. The tax credits are associated with the Low-Income 

Housing Tax Credit program established under Section 42 of the 

IRC, the New Markets Tax Credit program established under 

Section 45D of the IRC, the Rehabilitation Investment Tax Credit 

program established under Section 
47 of the IRC, and the Qualified 
Zone Academy Bond program established under Section 1397E of 

the IRC.  
The effective tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2012 
and 2011 were primarily impacted by $149 million and $135 million, 

respectively, in tax credits and $19 million and $26 million, 

respectively, of non-cash charges relating to previously recognized 

tax benefits associated with stoc
k-based compensation that will not 
be realized.  
As required under U.S. GAAP, the Bancorp established a 
deferred tax asset for stock-based awards granted to its employees. 
When the actual tax deduction for these stock-based awards is less 
than the expense previously reco
gnized for financial reporting or 
when the awards expire unexerci
sed, the Bancorp is required to 
write-off the deferred tax asset pr
eviously established for these 
stock-based awards.
 As a result of the expiration of certain stock 
options and SARs and the lapse of restrictions on certain shares of 

restricted stock during the year ended December 31, 2012, the 

Bancorp recorded additional income tax expense of approximately 
$19 million related to the write-off of a portion of the deferred tax 
asset previously established. As a result of the Bancorp™s stock price 

as of December 31, 2012, it is probable that the Bancorp will be 

required to record an additional $13 million of income tax expense 

during the next twelve months, primarily in the first quarter of 2013. 

However, the Bancorp cannot predict its stock price or whether its 

employees will exercise other st
ock-based awards with lower 
exercise prices in the future; theref
ore, it is possible that the total 
impact to income tax expense will be greater than or less than this 
amount. 
 Deductibility of Executive Compensation 
Certain sections of the IRC limit 
the deductibility of compensation 
paid to or earned by certain executive officers of a public company. 

This has historically limited the deductibility of certain executive 

compensation to $1 million per execu
tive officer, and the Bancorp™s 
compensation philosophy has been to position pay to ensure 

deductibility. However, both the amount of the executive 

compensation that is deductible 
for certain executive officers and 
the allowable compensation vehicles
 changed as a result of the 
Bancorp™s participation in TARP. In
 particular, the Bancorp was not 
permitted to deduct compensation earned by certain executive 

officers in excess of $500,000 per executive officer as a result of the 

Bancorp™s participation in TARP. Therefore, a portion of the 

compensation earned by certain
 executive officers was not 
deductible by the Bancorp for the period in which the Bancorp 

participated in TARP. Subsequent 
to ending its participation in 
TARP, certain limitations on the deductibility of executive 
compensation will continue to apply to some forms of 

compensation earned while under TARP. The Bancorp™s 

Compensation Committee determined that the underlying executive 

compensation programs are appropriate and necessary to attract, 

retain and motivate senior execut
ives, and that failing to meet these 
objectives creates more risk for the Bancorp and its value than the 

financial impact of losing the tax deduction. For the years ended 
December 31, 2012 and 2011, the tax impact related to non-
deductible compensation expense, which is based on the grant date 

fair values of the respective awards, was $1 million and $2 million, 

respectively.  In addition, the IRS limitation prevented the Bancorp 

from recognizing a tax benefit of $3 million for the year ended 

December 31, 2012 that otherwise would have resulted from the 

vesting and/or exercise of certain
 stock based compensation awards 
at fair values in excess of their respective grant date fair values. 
  The Bancorp™s income before income taxes, applicable inco
me tax expense and effective tax rate are as follows:  
      TABLE 11: APPLICABLE INCOME TAXES
                 For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
  2012 
 2011 
 2010  
2009  
2008  
Income (loss) before income taxes  
$ 2,210 
  1,831 
   940 
  767 
   (2,664)
  Applicable income tax expense (benefit) 
  636 
  533 
  187 
  30 
   (551)
  Effective tax rate 
 28.8 
% 29.1 
  19.8 
  3.9 
  20.7 
      MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  42  Fifth Third Bancorp 
BUSINESS SEGMENT REVIEW 
The Bancorp reports on four business segments: Commercial 
Banking, Branch Banking, C
onsumer Lending and Investment 
Advisors. Additional detailed financial information on each business 

segment is included in Note 29 of the Notes to Consolidated 

Financial Statements. Results of 
the Bancorp™s business segments are presented based on its management structure and management 

accounting practices. The structure and accounting practices are 

specific to the Bancorp; therefor
e, the financial results of the 
Bancorp™s business segments are not necessarily comparable with 
similar information for other financial institutions. The Bancorp 
refines its methodologies from time to time as management™s 

accounting practices are improved or businesses change.  
The Bancorp manages interest rate risk centrally at the 
corporate level and employs a FTP methodology at the business 

segment level. This methodology insulates the business segments 

from interest rate volatility, 
enabling them to focus on serving 
customers through loan originations and deposit taking. The FTP 
system assigns charge rates and credit rates to classes of assets and 
liabilities, respectively, based on expected duration and the U.S. 

swap curve. Matching duration allo
cates interest income and interest 
expense to each segment so its resulting net interest income is 

insulated from interest rate risk. 
In a rising rate environment, the 
Bancorp benefits from the widening spread between deposit costs 

and wholesale funding costs. However, the Bancorp™s FTP system 

credits this benefit to deposit-providing businesses, such as Branch 
Banking and Investment Advisors, on a duration-adjusted basis. The 
net impact of the FTP methodology is captured in General 
Corporate and Other.   
The Bancorp adjusts the FTP charge and credit rates as 
dictated by changes in interest rates for various interest-earning 

assets and interest-bearing liabilitie
s. The credit rate provided for 
demand deposit accounts is re
viewed annually based upon the 
account type, its estimated duration and the corresponding fed 

funds, U.S. swap curve or swap 
rate. The credit rates for several 
deposit products were reset January 1, 2012 to reflect the current 
market rates and updated durati
on assumptions. These rates were 
lower than those in place during 
2011, thus net interest income for 
deposit providing businesses was negatively impacted during 2012.  
The business segments are charged provision expense based on 
the actual net charge-offs experi
enced on the loans and leases 
owned by each segment. Provision expense attributable to loan and 

lease growth and changes in ALLL 
factors are captured in General 
Corporate and Other. The financial 
results of the business segments 
include allocations for shared serv
ices and headquarters expenses. 
Even with these allocations, the financial results are not necessarily 

indicative of the business segments™ financial condition and results 

of operations as if they existed as
 independent entities. Additionally, 
the business segments form synergies by taking advantage of cross-

sell opportunities and when funding operations, by accessing the 

capital markets as a collective unit.  
 Net income by business segment is summarized in the following table: 
        TABLE 12: BUSINESS SEGMENT NET INCOME
 AVAILABLE TO COMMON SHAREHOLDERS
        For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
 2012 
 2011 
 2010  
Income Statement Data
      Commercial Banking
 $  694 
 441 
 178 
Branch Banking
   186 
 190 
 185 
Consumer Lending
   223 
 56 
 (26)
Investment Advisors
   43 
 24 
 29 
General Corporate & Other
   428 
 587 
 387 
Net income
   1,574 
 1,298 
 753 
Less: Net income attributab
le to noncontrolling interests 
  (2)
 1 
 - 
Net income attributable to Bancorp
   1,576 
 1,297 
 753 
Dividends on preferred stock 
  35 
 203 
 250 
Net income available to common shareholders
 $  1,541 
 1,094 
 503 
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  43  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Commercial Banking
 Commercial Banking offers credit 
intermediation, cash management 
and financial services to large and middle-market businesses and 

government and professional customers. In addition to the 
traditional lending and depository offerings, Commercial Banking 
products and services include global cash management, foreign 
exchange and international trade 
finance, derivatives and capital 
markets services, asset-based lending, real estate finance, public 
finance, commercial leasing and syndicated finance.  
 The following table contains selected financial data for the Commercial Banking segment:
        TABLE 13: COMMERCIAL BANKING
        For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
  2012 
 2011 
 2010  
Income Statement Data 
       Net interest income (FTE)
(a) $  1,449 
 1,374 
 1,545 
Provision for loan and lease losses
   223 
 490 
 1,159 
Noninterest income:      Corporate banking revenue
   395 
 332 
 346 
    Service charges on deposits
   225 
 207 
 199 
    Other noninterest income
   117 
 102 
 90 
Noninterest expense:      Salaries, incentives and benefits
   268 
 240 
 214 
    Other noninterest expense
   838 
 833 
 757 
Income before taxes 
  857 
 452 
 50 
Applicable income tax expense (benefit)
(a)(b)   163 
 11 
 (128)
Net income
 $  694 
 441 
 178 
Average Balance Sheet Data 
 Commercial loans, including held for sale
 $  41,364 
 38,384 
 38,304 
Demand deposits
   15,046 
 13,130 
 10,872 
Interest checking   7,613 
 7,901 
 8,432 
Savings and money market
   2,669 
 2,776 
 2,823 
Other time and certificates - $100,000 and over
   1,793 
 1,778 
 3,014 
Foreign office deposits and other deposits
   1,282 
 1,581 
 2,017 
(a) Includes FTE adjustments of $17
 for the years ended 
December 31, 2012
 and 2011, and, $14
 for the year ended December 31, 2010. 
(b) Applicable income tax expense for all periods includes the tax bene
fit from tax-exempt income and business tax credits, partial
ly offset by the effect of certain 
nondeductible expenses. Refer to the 
Applicable Income Taxes section of the MD&A for additional information. 
 Comparison of 2012 with 2011 Net income was $694 million for the year ended December 31, 

2012, compared to net income of
 $441 million for the year ended 
December 31, 2011. The increase in net income was primarily 

driven by a decrease in the prov
ision for loan and lease losses and 
increases in noninterest income 
and net interest income, partially 
offset by higher noninterest expense. 
Net interest income increased $75 million primarily due to an 
increase in interest income relat
ed to an increase in average 
commercial and industrial portfolio lo
ans and a decrease in the FTP 
charges on loans, partially offset by 
a decrease in yields of 12 bps on 
average commercial loans. Provis
ion for loan and lease losses 
decreased $267 million from 2011 as a result of improved credit 

trends. Net charge-offs as a percen
t of average portfolio loans and 
leases decreased to 54 bps for 2012 compared to 128 bps for 2011.  
Noninterest income increased $96 million from 2011 to 2012, 
due to increases in corporate banking revenue, service charges on 

deposits and other noninterest income. The increase in corporate 

banking revenue was primarily driven by increases in syndication 

fees, business lending fees, lease remarketing fees and institutional 
sales. Service charges on deposits increased from 2011 primarily due 

to new customer relationships. The increase in other noninterest 
income was primarily due to a decrease in net losses and valuation 
adjustments recognized on the sale of loans and OREO. 
Noninterest expense increased $33 million from the prior year 
as a result of increases in salarie
s, incentives and benefits and other 
noninterest expense. The increase in 
salaries, incentives and benefits 
of $28 million was primarily the result of increased base and 

incentive compensation due to improved production levels. The 

increase from 2011 to 2012 in other noninterest expense was due to 
higher corporate overhead allocations 
as a result of strategic growth 
initiatives, partially offset by a d
ecrease in loan and lease expenses 
and recognized derivative credit losses. 
Average commercial loans increased $3.0 billion compared to 
the prior year. Average commercial 
and industrial loans increased 
$4.5 billion from 2011 as a result of an increase in new loan 

origination activity, partially offset by decreases in average 
commercial mortgage and construction loans. Average commercial 
mortgage loans decreased $827 million and average commercial 

construction loans decreased $836 million due to continued run-off 

as the level of new originations was below the level of repayments 

on the current portfolio.  
Average core deposits increased $1.2 billion compared to 2011. 
The increase was primarily driven by strong growth in demand 

deposit accounts, which increased $1
.9 billion compared to the prior 
year. The increase in demand depos
it accounts was partially offset 
by decreases in interest-bearing deposits of $698 million as 

customers opted to maintain their 
balances in more liquid accounts 
due to interest rates remaining near historical lows. 
 
Comparison of 2011 with 2010 
Net income was $441 million for the year ended December 31, 

2011, compared to net income of
 $178 million for the year ended 
December 31, 2010. The increase in net income was primarily 
driven by a decrease in the provision for loan and lease losses 

partially offset by lower net interest income and higher noninterest 

expense. 
Net interest income decreased $171 million primarily due to 
declines in the FTP credits for demand deposit accounts and 

decreases in interest income driven primarily by a decline in yields 

of 17 bps on average loans. Provision for loan and lease losses 
decreased $669 million. Net charge-offs as a percent of average 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  44  Fifth Third Bancorp 
loans and leases decreased to 128 bps for 2011 compared to 302 bps for 2010 largely due net charge-o
ffs on commercial loans moved to 
held for sale during the third qu
arter of 2010 and the improvement 
in credit trends across all commercial loan types.  
Noninterest income was relatively flat from 2010 to 2011, as 
increases in other noninterest income and service charges on 

deposits were offset by a decrease in corporate banking revenue. 
Noninterest expense increased $102 million from the prior year 
as a result of increases in salarie
s, incentives and benefits and other 
noninterest expense. The increase in 
salaries, incentives and benefits 
of $26 million was primarily the result of increased incentive 

compensation due to improved production levels. FDIC insurance 
expense, which is recorded in other noninterest expense, increased 
$14 million due to a change in the methodology in determining 
FDIC insurance premiums. The remaining increase in other 

noninterest expense was the result of higher corporate overhead 

allocations in 2011 compared to 2010.  
Average commercial loans were flat compared to the prior year. 
Average commercial mortgage loans decreased $1.0 billion and 

average commercial construction loans decreased $1.2 billion. The 

decreases in average commercial mortgage and construction loans 

were offset by growth in aver
age commercial and industrial loans 
due to new loan origination activity. Average core deposits increased 

$1.2 billion compared to 2010. The increase was primarily driven by 

strong growth in demand deposit accounts, partially offset by 
decreases in interest-bearing deposits of $1.0 billion. 
 Branch Banking
  Branch Banking provides a full rang
e of deposit and loan and lease 
products to individuals and sm
all businesses through 1,325 full-
service Banking Centers. Branch Banking offers depository and loan 

products, such as checking and savings accounts, home equity loans 
and lines of credit, credit cards 
and loans for automobiles and other personal financing needs, as well as
 products designed to meet the 
specific needs of small businesses, including cash management 

services.   The following table contains selected financial data for the Branch Banking segment:
        TABLE 14: BRANCH BANKING
        For the years ended Decembe
r 31  ($ in millions) 
 2012 
 2011 
 2010  
Income Statement Data 
     Net interest income 
 $  1,362 
 1,423 
 1,514 
Provision for loan and lease losses
   294 
 393 
 555 
Noninterest income:      Service charges on deposits
   294 
 309 
 369 
    Card and processing revenue
   279 
 305 
 298 
    Investment advisory revenue
   129 
 117 
 106 
    Other noninterest income
   110 
 106 
 112 
Noninterest expense:      Salaries, incentives and benefits
   573 
 581 
 560 
    Net occupancy and equipment expense
   241 
 235 
 223 
    Card and processing expense
   115 
 114 
 105 
    Other noninterest expense
   663 
 645 
 668 
Income before taxes 
  288 
 292 
 288 
Applicable income tax expense 
  102 
 102 
 103 
Net income
 $  186 
 190 
 185 
Average Balance Sheet Data 
 Consumer loans, including held for sale
 $  14,926 
 14,151 
 13,125 
Commercial loans, including held for sale
   4,569 
 4,621 
 4,815 
Demand deposits
   10,087 
 8,408 
 7,006 
Interest checking   9,262 
 8,086 
 7,462 
Savings and money market
   22,729 
 22,241 
 19,963 
Other time and certificates - $100,000 and over
   5,389 
 7,778 
 12,712 
  Comparison of 2012 with 2011 Net income decreased $4 million compared to 2011, driven by a 
decrease in net interest income and noninterest income and an 
increase in noninterest expense, partially offset by a decline in the 

provision for loan and lease losses. Net interest income decreased 

$61 million compared to the prior year primarily driven by decreases 

in the FTP credits for checking and savings products and lower 

yields on average commercial and consumer loans.  These decreases 

were partially offset by higher c
onsumer loan balances and a decline 
in interest expense on core deposits due to favorable shifts from 
certificates of deposit to lower cost transaction and savings 
products. Provision for loan and lease losses for 2012 decreased $99 
million compared to the prior year as a result of improved credit 

trends. Net charge-offs as a percen
t of average portfolio loans and 
leases decreased to 151 bps for 2012 compared to 210 bps for 2011. 

The decrease is primarily due to decreases in home equity net 
charge-offs as a result of improvements in several key markets.  In 
addition, net charge-offs were positively impacted by lower 
commercial net charge-offs due to
 improved delinquency trends, 
aggressive line management, an
d stabilization in unemployment 
levels. Noninterest income decreased $25 million compared to the 
prior year.  The decrease was primarily driven by lower card and 

processing revenue, which declined $26 million from 2011 due to 

the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act™s debit card interchange 

fee cap in the fourth quarter of 2011,
 partially offset by higher debit 
and credit card transaction volumes and the impact of the Bancorp™s 
initial mitigation activity, and allocated commission revenue 

associated with merchant sales. Service charges on deposits declined 

$15 million primarily due to the elimination of daily overdraft fees 

on continuing customer overdraft positions in the second quarter of 

2012. These decreases were partially offset by a $12 million increase 

in investment advisory revenue due to increased amounts from 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  45  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 revenue sharing agreements between investment advisors and 
branch banking. 
Noninterest expense increased $17 million, primarily driven by 
increases in other noninterest expense due to an increase in 
allocated costs related to higher merchant sales and corporate 
overhead allocations as a result of strategic growth initiatives, 

partially offset by a decrease in FDIC insurance expense.  
Average consumer loans increased $775 million in 2012 
primarily due to increases in aver
age residential mortgage portfolio 
loans of $1.3 billion due to the retention of certain shorter-term 

originated mortgage loans. The increases in average residential 

mortgage portfolio loans was partially offset by decreases in average 
home equity portfolio loans of $560 million as payoffs exceeded 
new loan production. Average core deposits increased $1.4 billion 

compared to the prior year as the 
growth in transaction accounts 
due to excess customer liquidity and historically low interest rates 

outpaced the runoff of higher
 priced other time deposits. 
 
Comparison of 2011 with 2010 
Net income increased $5 million compared to 2010, driven by a 
decline in the provision for loan an
d lease losses partially offset by a 
decrease in net interest income and noninterest income and an 

increase in noninterest expense. Net interest income decreased $91 

million compared to the prior yea
r. The primary drivers of the 
decline include decreases in the FTP credits for demand deposit 

accounts, lower yields on averag
e commercial and consumer loans, 
and a decline in average commercial loans. These decreases were 

partially offset by a favorable shift in the segment™s deposit mix 
towards lower cost transaction de
posits resulting in declines in 
interest expense of $193 million compared to 2010, and an increase 

in average consumer loans. 
Provision for loan and lease losses for 2011 decreased $162 
million compared to the prior year. 
Net charge-offs as a percent of 
average loans and leases decrease
d to 210 bps for 2011 compared to 
313 bps for 2010. In addition, the decrease is due to $24 million in 

charge-offs taken on $60 million of commercial loans which were 
sold or moved to held for sale during the third quarter of 2010.  
Noninterest income decreased $48 million compared to the 
prior year.  The decrease was driven by lower service charges on 

deposits primarily due to the implementation of Regulation E in the 

third quarter of 2010. The decrease was partially offset by increased 
card and processing revenue due to higher debit and credit card 
transaction volumes, which was partially offset by the impact of the 

implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act™s debit card interchange fee 

cap in the fourth quarter of 2011.
 Investment advisory revenue also 
increased due to improved market performance and sales force 

expansion. 
Noninterest expense increased $19 million, primarily driven by 
increases in salaries, incentives an
d benefits expense and card and 
processing expense partially offset by a decline in other noninterest 
expense.  
Average consumer loans increased $1.0 billion in 2011 
primarily due to increases in aver
age residential mortgage portfolio 
loans of $1.5 billion due to management™s decision in the third 

quarter of 2010 to retain certain 
mortgage loans. The increases in 
average residential mortgage portfolio loans was partially offset by 

decreases in average home equity loans of $421 million due to 
decreased customer demand and continued tighter underwriting 
standards. Average commercial loan
s decreased $194 million due to 
declines in commercial and indust
rial loans resulting from lower 
customer demand for new originations and continued tighter 

underwriting standards applied to both originations and renewals.  
Average core deposits increased by $120 million compared to 
the prior year as the growth in transaction accounts outpaced the 

runoff of higher priced 
certificates of deposit. Consumer Lending 
Consumer Lending includes the Bancorp™s mortgage, home equity, 
automobile and other indirect lending activities. Mortgage and home 
equity lending activities include the origination, retention and 

servicing of mortgage and home equity loans or lines of credit, sales 

and securitizations of those loans, 
pools of loans or lines of credit, 
and all associated hedging activities. Indirect lending activities 

include loans to consumers through mortgage brokers and 

automobile dealers.  
 The following table contains selected financial data for the Consumer Lending segment:
        TABLE 15: CONSUMER LENDING
        For the years ended Decembe
r 31  ($ in millions) 
 2012 
 2011 
 2010  
Income Statement Data
      Net interest income  
$  314 
 343 
 405 
Provision for loan and lease losses 
  176 
 261 
 569 
Noninterest income:      Mortgage banking net revenue 
  830 
 585 
 619 
    Other noninterest income 
  46 
 45 
 51 
Noninterest expense:      Salaries, incentives and benefits 
  231 
 183 
 194 
    Other noninterest expense 
  439 
 443 
 352 
Income (loss) before taxes 
  344 
 86 
 (40)
Applicable income tax expense (benefit) 
  121 
 30 
 (14)
Net income (loss) 
$  223 
 56 
 (26)
Average Balance Sheet Data
  Residential mortgage loans, including held for sale 
$  10,143 
 9,348 
 9,384 
Home equity 
  643 
 730 
 851 
Automobile loans 
  11,191 
 10,665 
 9,713 
Consumer leases 
  35 
 158 
 384 
    
   
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  46  Fifth Third Bancorp 
Comparison of 2012 with 2011 Net income was $223 million in 2012 compared to net income of 
$56 million in 2011. The increase wa
s driven by an increase in 
noninterest income and a decline in 
the provision for loan and lease 
losses, partially offset by an increase in noninterest expense and a 
decrease in net interest income. Net interest income decreased $29 

million due to lower yields on average residential mortgage and 

automobile loans, partially offset by
 increases in average residential 
mortgage and average automobile 
loans and favorable decreases in the FTP charge applied to the segment. 
Provision for loan and lease losses decreased $85 million 
compared to the prior year as de
linquency metrics and underlying 
loss trends improved across all consumer loan types. Net charge-
offs as a percent of average loans 
and leases decreased to 88 bps for 
2012 compared to 134 bps for 2011.  
Noninterest income increased $246 million primarily due to 
increases in mortgage banking net revenue of $245 million driven by 

an increase in gains on residential mortgage loan sales of $424 

million due to an increase in profit margins on sold loans coupled 

with higher origination volumes. Th
is increase was partially offset 
by a decrease in net residential mo
rtgage servicing revenue of $178 
million, primarily driven by a decrease of $142 million in net 

valuation adjustments on MSRs and free-standing derivatives 

entered into to economically hedge the MSRs.  
Noninterest expense increased $44 million driven by salaries, 
incentives and benefits which increased $48 million primarily as a 

result of higher mortgage loan originations. 
Average consumer loans and leases increased $1.1 billion from 
the prior year. Average automobile
 loans increased $526 million due 
to a strategic focus to increase automobile lending throughout 2011 

and 2012 through consistent and co
mpetitive pricing, disciplined 
sales execution, and enhanced customer service with our dealership 

network. Average residential mortgage loans increased $795 million 

as a result of higher origination volumes. Average home equity loans 

decreased $87 million due to continued runoff in the discontinued 

brokered home equity product. Average consumer leases decreased 
$123 million due to runoff as the Ba
ncorp discontinued this product 
in the fourth quarter of 2008.  Comparison of 2011 with 2010 Net income was $56 million in 2011 co
mpared to a net loss of $26 
million in 2010. The increase wa
s driven by a decline in the 
provision for loan and lease losses, partially offset by decreases in 

noninterest income and net interest income and an increase in 
noninterest expense. Net interest income decreased $62 million due 
to a decline in average loan bala
nces for residential mortgage, home 
equity, and consumer leases as 
well as lower yields on average 
residential mortgage and automobile
 loans, partially offset by 
favorable decreases in the FTP ch
arge applied to the segment. Provision for loan and lease losses decreased $308 million 
compared to the prior year, as 
delinquency metrics and underlying 
loss trends improved across all c
onsumer loan types. Additionally, 
2010 included charge-offs of $123 million on the sale of $228 
million of portfolio loans.  Net ch
arge-offs as a percent of average 
loans and leases decreased to 134 bps for 2011 compared to 305 bps for 2010.  
Noninterest income decreased $40 million primarily due to 
decreases in mortgage banking net revenue of $34 million.  The 
decrease from 2010 was driven by d
eclines in origination fees and 
gains on loan sales of $78 million due to decreased margins and 

lower origination volumes, partially 
offset by an increase in net 
servicing revenue of $44 million.  Noninterest expense increased $80 million driven in part by 
increased FDIC insurance expense, as the methodology used to 

determine FDIC insurance premiums changed in 2011 from one 

based on domestic deposits to one based on total assets less tangible 
equity.  Additional changes were due 
to an increase of $41 million in 
the provision for representation and warranty claims related to 

residential mortgage loans sold to 
third parties and an increase of 
$21 million in losses on escrow ad
vances to borrowers relating to 
bank owned residential mortgages. 
Average consumer loans and leases increased $558 million 
from the prior year. Average au
tomobile loans increased $952 
million due to a strategic focus to increase automobile lending 
throughout 2010 and 2011. This incr
ease was partially offset by 
declines across all other types of consumer loans. Average 

residential mortgage loans decreased $36 million as a result of the 

lower origination volumes. Average home equity loans decreased 

$121 million due to continued runoff in the discontinued brokered 

home equity product. Average consumer leases decreased $226 

million due to runoff as the Bancorp discontinued this product in 

the fourth quarter of 2008. 
Investment Advisors 
Investment Advisors provides a full range of investment alternatives 
for individuals, companies and 
not-for-profit organizations. 
Investment Advisors is made up of four main businesses: FTS, an 

indirect wholly-owned subsidia
ry of the Bancorp; FTAM, an 
indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the Bancorp; Fifth Third 

Private Bank; and Fifth Third Instit
utional Services. FTS offers full 
service retail brokerage services to individual clients and broker 

dealer services to the institutional marketplace. FTAM provides 

asset management services and previously advised the Bancorp™s 
proprietary family of mutual funds.
 Fifth Third Private Bank offers 
holistic strategies to affluent clients in wealth planning, investing, 

insurance and wealth protection. Fifth Third Institutional Services 

provides advisory services for institutional clients including states 

and municipalities.  
As previously mentioned, the Bancorp announced that FTAM 
entered into two agreements un
der which a third party would 
acquire assets of 16 mutual funds from FTAM and another third 
party would acquire certain assets relating to the management of 
Fifth Third money market funds. Both transactions were completed 

in the third quarter of 2012. Upon completion of the transactions, 

the Bancorp recognized a $13 milli
on gain on sale within other 
noninterest income in the Bancorp™s Consolidated Statements of 

Income.  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  47  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following table contains selected financial data for the Investment Advisors segment:
        TABLE 16: INVESTMENT ADVISORS
        For the years ended Decembe
r 31  ($ in millions)
  2012 
 2011 
 2010  
Income Statement Data
      Net interest income  
$  117 
 113 
 138 
Provision for loan and lease losses 
  10 
 27 
 44 
Noninterest income:      Investment advisory revenue 
  366 
 364 
 346 
    Other noninterest income 
  30 
 9 
 10 
Noninterest expense:      Salaries, incentives and benefits 
  161 
 164 
 156 
    Other noninterest expense 
  276 
 257 
 249 
Income before taxes 
  66 
 38 
 45 
Applicable income tax expense 
  23 
 14 
 16 
Net income 
$  43 
 24 
 29 
Average Balance Sheet Data
  Loans and leases 
$  1,877 
 2,037 
 2,574 
Core deposits 
  7,709 
 6,798 
 5,897 
  Comparison of 2012 with 2011 Net income increased $19 million 
compared to 2011 primarily due 
to an increase in noninterest income and a decrease in the provision 
for loan and lease losses, partially
 offset by an increase in 
noninterest expense. Net interest income increased $4 million from 

2011 due to a decrease in interest
 expense on core deposits and 
favorable decreases in the FTP charge applied to the segment, 

partially offset by a decline in av
erage loan and lease balances and 
declines in yields of 27 bps on loans and leases. 
Provision for loan and lease losses decreased $17 million from 
the prior year. Net charge-offs as
 a percent of average loans and 
leases decreased to 53 bps compared to 132 bps for the prior year 
reflecting improved credit trends during 2012.  
Noninterest income increased $23 million compared to 2011 
primarily due to increases in other noninterest income. The increase 

in other noninterest income was primarily driven by the $13 million 

gain on the sale of certain funds previously mentioned and an 

increase in gains on the sale of loans of $5 million. 
Noninterest expense increased $16 million compared to 2011 
due to increases in other noninterest expense primarily driven by an 
increase in corporate allocations. Average loans and leases decreased $160 million compared to 
the prior year. The decrease was primarily driven by declines in 

home equity loans of $55 million, commercial mortgage loans of 

$45 million and commercial and industrial loans of $30 million. 
Average core deposits increased $911 million compared to 2011 due 

to growth in interest checking as customers have opted to maintain 
excess funds in liquid transaction a
ccounts as a result of interest 
rates remaining near historic lows, partially offset by account 

migration from foreign office deposits. 

 
Comparison of 2011 with 2010 
Net income decreased $5 million compared to 2010 primarily due to 

a decline in net interest income and an increase in noninterest 

expense partially offset by a decrease in the provision for loan and 
lease losses and an increase in investment advisory revenue. Net 
interest income decreased $25 million from 2010 due to a decline in 

average loan and lease balances as we
ll as declines in yields on loans 
and leases.    
Provision for loan and leases lo
sses decreased $17 million from 
the prior year. Net charge-offs as
 a percent of average loans and 
leases decreased to 132 bps compared to 171 bps for the prior year 

reflecting moderation of general economic conditions during 2011.  
Noninterest income increased $17 million compared to 2010 
primarily due to increases in investment advisory revenue related to 
an increase of $10 million in Private Bank income driven by market 
performance and an increase of $7
 million in securities and broker 
income due to continued expansion 
of the sales force and market 
performance. 
Noninterest expense increased $16 million compared to 2010 
due to increases in salaries, incen
tives and benefit expense resulting from the expansion of the sales force and compensation related to 

improved performance in investment advisory revenue related fees. 
Average loans and leases decreased $537 million compared to 
the prior year. The decrease was primarily driven by declines in 

home equity loans of $373 million due to tighter underwriting 
standards. Average core deposits increased $901 million compared 
to 2010 due to growth in interest checking and foreign deposits. 
General Corporate and Other 
General Corporate and Other includ
es the unallocated portion of 
the investment securities portfolio
, securities gains and losses, 
certain non-core deposit funding, unassigned equity, provision 

expense in excess of net charge-offs or a benefit from the reduction 

of the ALLL, representation and 
warranty expense in excess of 
actual losses or a benefit from th
e reduction of representation and 
warranty reserves, the payment of preferred stock dividends and 
certain support activities and other items not attributed to the 
business segments. 

 
Comparison of 2012 with 2011 
Results for 2012 and 2011 were impacted by a benefit of $400 

million and $748 million, respectively, due to reductions in the 

ALLL. The decrease in provision expense was driven by general 

improvements in credit quality and 
declines in net charge-offs. Net 
interest income increased from $321 million in 2011 to $370 million 
for 2012 due to a benefit in the FTP rate. The change in net income 

compared to the prior year was impacted by a $157 million gain on 

the sale of Vantiv, Inc. shares and $115 million in gains on the initial 

public offering of Vantiv, Inc. In
 addition, the results for 2012 were 
impacted by dividends on preferred stock of $35 million compared 

to $203 million in the prior year.  

 Comparison of 2011 with 2010 Results for 2011 and 2010 were impacted by a benefit of $748 

million and $789 million, respectively, due to reductions in the 

ALLL. The decrease in provision expense for both years was due to 

a decrease in nonperforming assets and improvement in 

delinquency metrics and underlying 
loss trends. Net interest income 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  48  Fifth Third Bancorp 
increased from $16 million in 2010 to $321 million for 2011 due to a 
benefit in the FTP rate. The change in net income compared to the 

prior year was impacted by a $127 
million benefit, net of expenses, 
from the settlement of litigation associated with one of the 
Bancorp™s BOLI policies that was recorded in the third quarter of 
2010. The results for 2011 were impacted by dividends on preferred 

stock of $203 million compared to $250 million in the prior year. 

2011 results included $153 million in preferred stock dividends as a 

result of the accelerated accr
etion of the remaining issuance 
discount on the Series F Preferred Stock that was repaid in the first 

quarter of 2011. 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  49  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 FOURTH QUARTER REVIEW The Bancorp™s 2012 fourth quarte
r net income available to common 
shareholders was $390 million, or $0.43 per diluted share, compared 
to net income available to common sh
areholders of $354 million, or 
$0.38 per diluted share, for the 
third quarter of 2012 and net income 
available to common shareholders of $305 million, or $0.33 per 

diluted share, for the fourth qu
arter of 2011. Fourth quarter 2012 
earnings included a $157 million gain on the sale of Vantiv shares, 

$134 million in debt extinguishment costs associated with the 

termination of $1.0 billion of FHLB borrowings and $38 million of 

mortgage representation and warranty provision expense primarily 
due to additional information obtained from FHLMC regarding 
future mortgage repurchase and file requests. Third quarter 2012 

results included $26 million in debt extinguishment costs associated 

with the redemption of certain TruPS, a $16 million negative 

adjustment on the valuation of the warrant associated with the 

processing business sale, $13 million 
in gains recognized on the sale 
of certain FTAM funds, and charges of $34 million related to the 

mortgage representation and warrant
y reserve. Fourth quarter 2011 
earnings included a $54 million charge
 related to changes in the fair 
value of a swap liability that the Ba
ncorp entered into in conjunction 
with its sale of Visa, Inc. Class 
B shares in 2009 and $10 million in 
positive valuation adjustments on puts and warrants associated with 

the sale of the processing busine
ss. The ALLL to loan and lease 
ratio was 2.16% as of December 31, 2012, compared to 2.32% as of 

September 30, 2012 and 2.78% as of December 31, 2011.  
Fourth quarter 2012 net interest income of $903 million 
decreased $4 million from the third quarter of 2012 and $17 million 
from the same period a year ago. The decrease from the third 

quarter of 2012 was driven by a decrease in interest income, partially 

offset by a decline in interest expense. Interest income decreased $7 

million from the third quarter of 2012 as the benefit of average 

loans and leases growth was more than
 offset by a decline in interest 
income attributable to loan repric
ing, primarily in the commercial 
and industrial, auto, and residential 
mortgage portfolios, as well as 
lower reinvestment rates on the securities portfolio. Interest expense 
declined $3 million from the third quarter of 2012, driven by higher 

demand deposit balances and continued runoff in consumer CD 

balances due to the low interest
 rate environment and their 
replacement into lower yielding prod
ucts. The decline in net interest 
income in comparison to the fourth
 quarter of 2011 was driven by 
lower asset yields partially offset 
by higher average loan balances, 
run-off in higher-priced CDs and a mix shift to lower cost deposit 
products.  Fourth quarter 2012 noninterest income of $880 million 
increased $209 million compared to
 the third quarter of 2012 and 
$330 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2011. The sequential 

and year-over-year increases were both driven by a $157 million gain 

from the sale of Vantiv shares and higher mortgage banking and 

corporate banking revenue. Fourth quarter 2012 noninterest income 
included a $19 million negative valuation adjustment on the Vantiv 
warrants, compared with a $16 million negative valuation 
adjustment in the third quarter of 2012 and a $10 million positive 

valuation adjustment on the Vantiv warrant and put instruments in 

the fourth quarter of 2011. Fourth
 quarter 2012 results also included 
a $15 million charge related to the v
aluation of the total return swap 
entered into as part of the 2009 s
ale of Visa, Inc. Class B shares. 
Negative valuation adjustments on this swap were $1 million in the 

third quarter of 2012 and $54 million 
in the fourth quarter of 2011. 
Third quarter 2012 results also included $13 million in gains 
recognized on the sale of certain FTAM funds. 
 Mortgage banking net revenue was $258 million in the fourth 
quarter of 2012, compared to $200 million in the third quarter of 

2012 and $156 million in the fourth 
quarter of 2011. Fourth quarter 
2012 originations were $7.0 billion, compared with $5.8 billion in 
the previous quarter and $7.1 billi
on in the fourth quarter of 2011. 
Fourth quarter 2012 originations resulted in gains of $239 million 
on mortgages sold, reflecting higher mortgage sales revenue partially 
offset by lower gain on sale margin
s. This compares with gains of 
$226 million during the third quarter of 2012 and $152 million 

during the fourth quarter of 2011. Mortgage servicing fees in the 

fourth quarter of 2012 were $64 m
illion, compared with $62 million 
in the third quarter of 2012 and $58 million in the fourth quarter of 

2011. Mortgage banking net revenue is
 also affected by net servicing 
asset value adjustments, which include MSR amortization and MSR 
valuation adjustments. These factors led to a net loss of $45 million 
on the net valuation adjustments on MSRs in the fourth quarter of 

2012 compared to a net loss of $88 million in the third quarter of 

2012 and a net loss of $54 million in the fourth quarter of 2011. Net 

losses on nonqualifying hedges on mortgage servicing rights were $2 

million and $3 million in the fourth quarter of 2012 and 2011, 

respectively, and net gains on nonqualifying hedges on mortgage 

servicing rights were $5 million during the third quarter of 2012.  
Service charges on deposits of $134 million increased $6 
million sequentially and decreased $2 million compared to the 

fourth quarter of 2011. Retail 
service charges grew 10 percent 
sequentially largely due to a se
asonal increase in consumer 
overdrafts as well as the initial 
benefit of the transition to the 
Bancorp™s new and simplified deposit product offerings. Compared 

with the fourth quarter of 2011, retail service charges decreased 11 

percent primarily due to changes in
 the Bancorp™s overdraft policies 
during 2012. Commercial service charges increased two percent 
sequentially and six percent from a year ago primarily as a result of 

higher treasury management fees. 
Corporate banking revenue of $114 million increased $13 
million from the previous quarter 
and $32 million from the fourth 
quarter of 2011. The sequential increase was primarily driven by 

higher syndication fees, business lending fees, and derivative fees, 

which benefited from accelerated activity in anticipation of changes 
to tax rules. The increase from
 the fourth quarter of 2011 was 
primarily driven by increased syndication fees and business lending 

fees as a result of the Bancorp™s 
investments in the capital markets 
and treasury management capabilities, which are creating more 

opportunities and increased production.
 Investment advisory revenue of $93 million increased $1 
million sequentially and $3 million from the fourth quarter of 2011. 

Sequential and year-over-year increases were driven by higher 
private client services and instit
utional trust fees, which benefited 
from improvement in equity and bond 
market values, partially offset 
by lower mutual fund fees largely due to the sale of certain Fifth 

Third funds in the third quarter of 2012. Card and processing revenue of $66 million increased $1 
million compared to the third quarter of 2012 and $6 million from 

the fourth quarter of 2011. Both in
creases were driven by higher 
transaction volumes and higher levels of consumer spending. 
The net gain on investment securities was $2 million in both 
the fourth and third quarters of 2012 
and a net gain of $5 million in 
the fourth quarter of 2011.  
Noninterest expense of $1.2 billion increased $157 million 
sequentially and increased $170 million from the fourth quarter of 

2011. Fourth quarter 2012 expenses included $134 million of debt 
extinguishment costs associated with
 the termination of $1.0 billion 
of FHLB debt; $38 million of expenses associated with the 
mortgage representation and warra
nty reserve; and $13 million in 
charges to increase litigation reserves. Third quarter 2012 expenses 

included $26 million of debt extinguishment costs associated with 

the redemption of TruPS and $34 million of expenses associated 

with the mortgage representation and warranty reserve. Fourth 

quarter 2011 expenses included $
14 million in charges to increase 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  50  Fifth Third Bancorp 
litigation reserves related to bankcard association membership and 
$5 million in other litigation reserve additions. Net charge-offs as a percent of average loans and leases 
decreased to 1.49% during 2011 compared to 3.02% during 2010 
largely due to decreases in nonperforming loans and leases, 
improved delinquency metrics in
 commercial and consumer loans 
and leases, and improvement in underlying loss trends. 
 TABLE 17: QUARTERLY INFORMATION (unaudited)
          2012 
 2011 
 For the three months ended ($ in millions, except per share data) 
12/319/30
6/30
3/31
12/31
9/30
6/30
3/31
Net interest income (FTE)  
$903
907 
899 
903 
920 
902 
869 
884 
Provision for loan and lease losses 
76 
65 
71 91 55 
87 
113 
168 
Noninterest income 880 
671 
678 
769 
550 
665 
656 
584 
Noninterest expense 1,163 1,006 
937 
973 
993 
946 
901 
918 
Net income attributable to Bancorp  
399 
363 
385 
430 
314 
381 
337 
 265 
Net income available to common shareholders 
390 
354 
376 
421 
305 
373 
328 
 88 
Earnings per share, basic  
0.44 
0.39 
0.41 
0.46 
0.33 
0.41 
0.36 
 0.10 
Earnings per share, diluted  
0.43 
0.38 
0.40 
0.45 
0.33 
0.40 
0.35 
 0.10 
         COMPARISON OF THE YEAR ENDED 2011 WITH 2010 
Net income available to common shareholders for the year ended 

December 31, 2011 was $1.1 billion, or $1.18 per diluted share, 
which was net of $203 million in preferred stock dividends.  The 
Bancorp™s net income available to common shareholders of $503 

million, or $0.63 per diluted share, for 2010, was net of $250 million 

in preferred stock dividends. The preferred stock dividends in 2011 

included $153 million in discount
 accretion resulting from the 
Bancorp™s repurchase of Series F preferred stock.  Overall, credit 

trends improved in 2011, and as a 
result, the provision for loan and 
lease losses decreased to $423 million in 2011 compared to $1.5 
billion in 2010. Noninterest inco
me decreased from 2010, primarily 
due to a $152 million litigation settlement related to one of the 

Bancorp™s BOLI policies during the third quarter of 2010 and 

reduced service charges on deposits and a decrease in mortgage 

banking net revenue. Noninterest expense decreased in comparison 

to 2010, primarily due to a d
ecrease in the provision for 
representation and warranty claims and a decrease in FDIC expense 

and other taxes.  
Net interest income was $3.6 billion for the years ended 
December 31, 2011 and 2010. Net interest income in 2011 

compared to the prior year was impacted by a 22 bps decrease in 

average yield on average interest-earning assets offset by a 25 bps 

decrease in the average rate paid on interest-bearing liabilities and a 

$3.2 billion decrease in average in
terest-bearing liabilities, coupled 
with a mix shift to lower cost deposits. Noninterest income decreased $274 million, or 10%, in 2011 
compared to 2010 primarily as the result of a $152 million litigation 
settlement related to one of the Bancorp™s BOLI policies during the 

third quarter of 2010, a $54 million decrease in service charges on 

deposits primarily due to the impact of Regulation E and a $50 

million decrease in mortgage banking net revenue primarily as the 

result of a decrease in origination fees and a decrease in gains on 

loan sales partially offset by an increase in net servicing revenue.  
Noninterest expense decreased $97 million, or three percent, in 
2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to a decrease of $59 million in 
the provision for representation and warranty claims related to 

residential mortgage loans sold to third parties; a decrease of $41 

million in FDIC insurance and other taxes, a $22 million decrease 

from the change in the provision for unfunded commitments and 

letters of credit, a $21 million decrease in intangible asset 

amortization and a $19 million decrease in professional service fees. 

This activity was partially offset 
by a $64 million increase in total 
personnel costs (salaries, wages and incentives plus employee 
benefits). Net charge-offs as a percent of average loans and leases 
decreased to 1.49% during 2011 compared to 3.02% during 2010 
largely due net charge-offs on co
mmercial loans moved to held for 
sale during the third quarter of 2010 coupled with improved credit 

trends across all commercial loan types. In addition, residential 
mortgage loan net charge-offs, which typically involve partial 
charge-offs based upon appraised values of underlying collateral, 

decreased $266 million from 2010 as a result of improvements in 

delinquencies and a decrease in the average loss recorded per 

charge-off. The Bancorp took a number of ac
tions that impacted its capital 
position in 2011. On January 25, 2011, the Bancorp raised $1.7 

billion in new common equity through the issuance of shares of 
common stock in an underwritten offering. On February 2, 2011, 
the Bancorp redeemed all 136,320 shares of its Series F Preferred 

Stock held by the U.S. Treasury totaling $3.4 billion. The Bancorp 

used the net proceeds from the common stock offerings previously 

discussed and a senior debt offering to redeem the Series F 

Preferred Stock. On March 16, 2011, the Bancorp repurchased the 

warrant issued to the U.S. Treasu
ry under the CPP for $280 million, 
which was recorded as a reduct
ion to capital surplus in the 
Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements. On March 18, 2011, 
the Bancorp announced that the FRB did not object to the 

Bancorp™s capital plan submitted under the FRB 2011 CCAR. 

Pursuant to this plan, in the second quarter of 2011, the Bancorp 

redeemed $452 million of certain trust preferred securities, at par, 

classified as long-term debt. As a result of these redemptions the 

Bancorp recorded a $6 million gain on the extinguishment within 

other noninterest expense in the Consolidated Statements of 
Income.  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  51  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS 
Loans and Leases 
The Bancorp classifies its loans and leases based upon the primary 
purpose of the loan. Table 18 summarizes end of period loans and 
leases, including loans held for sale and Table 19 summarizes 
average total loans and leases, 
including loans held for sale.  TABLE 18: COMPONENTS OF LOANS AND LEASES (INCLUDES HELD FOR SALE)
 As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
2012 
 2011 
 2010  
2009  
2008  
Commercial: 
           Commercial and industrial loans 
$36,077
 30,828 
 27,275 
 25,687 
 29,220
  Commercial mortgage loans 
9,116 10,214 
 10,992 
 11,936 
 12,731
  Commercial construction loans 
707
 1,037 
 2,111 
 3,871 
 5,335
  Commercial leases 
3,549
 3,531 
 3,378 
 3,535 
 3,666
   Subtotal Œ commercial 
49,449
 45,610 
 43,756 
 45,029 
 50,952
 Consumer: 
           Residential mortgage loans 
14,873 13,474 
 10,857 
 9,846 
 10,292
  Home equity 
10,018
 10,719 
 11,513 
 12,174 
 12,752
  Automobile loans 
11,972 11,827 
 10,983 
 8,995 
 8,594
  Credit card 
2,097
 1,978 
 1,896 
 1,990 
 1,811
  Other consumer loans and leases 
312 364 
 702 
 812 
 1,194
   Subtotal Œ consumer 
39,272
 38,362 
 35,951 
 33,817 
 34,643
 Total loans and leases 
$88,721
 83,972 
 79,707 
 78,846 
 85,595
 Total portfolio loans and leases (excludes loans held for sale) 
$85,782
 81,018 
 77,491 
 76,779 
 84,143
        Loans and leases, including loans held for sale, increased $4.7 
billion, or six percent, from D
ecember 31, 2011. The increase in 
loans and leases from December 31, 2011 was the result of a $3.8 

billion, or eight percent, increa
se in commercial loans and a $910 
million, or two percent, increase in consumer loans. 
 The increase in commercial loans and leases from December 
31, 2011 was primarily due to an
 increase in commercial and 
industrial loans partially offset 
by a decrease in commercial 
mortgage and commercial constr
uction loans. Commercial and 
industrial loans increased $5.2 b
illion, or 17%, due to targeted 
marketing efforts, an increase in ne
w loan origination activity due to 
a strengthening economy and strong growth in December from 

uncertainty over tax increases an
d U.S. fiscal policy. Commercial 
mortgage loans decreased $1.1 
billion, or 11%, from December 31, 
2011 and commercial construction loans decreased $330 million, or 
32%, from December 31, 2011 due to continued runoff as the level 
of new originations was less than the repayments of the current 

portfolio.  The increase in consumer loans and leases from December 31, 
2011 was primarily due to an increase
 in residential mortgage loans, 
automobile loans, and credit card 
loans partially offset by a decrease 
in home equity loans. Residential mortgage loans increased $1.4 

billion, or 10%, from December 31, 2011 due to management™s 

decision to retain certain shorter term residential mortgage loans 

originated through the Bancorp™
s retail branches throughout 2011 
and 2012 and strong originations 
due to continued refinancing 
activity associated with historically
 low interest rates. Automobile 
loans increased $145 million, or one percent, from December 31, 

2011 due to strong origination volumes through consistent and 

competitive pricing, enhanced customer service with our dealership 

network, and disciplined sales execu
tion. Credit card loans increased 
$119 million, or six percent, from December 31, 2011 driven by 

strong new account originations 
and modest attrition rates. Home 
equity loans decreased $701 million, or seven percent, from 
December 31, 2011 as payoffs exceeded new loan production.  
 TABLE 19: COMPONENTS OF AVERAGE LOANS 
AND LEASES (INCLUDES HELD FOR SALE)
As of December 31 ($ in millions)
 2012 
 2011 
 2010  
2009  
2008  
Commercial: 
          Commercial and industrial loans 
$32,911
 28,546 
 26,334 
 27,556 
 28,426 
  Commercial mortgage loans 
9,686
 10,447 
 11,585 
 12,511 
 12,776 
  Commercial construction loans 
835
 1,740 
 3,066 
 4,638 
 5,846 
  Commercial leases 
3,502
 3,341 
 3,343 
 3,543 
 3,680 
   Subtotal Œ commercial 
46,934
 44,074 
 44,328 
 48,248 
 50,728 
 Consumer: 
           Residential mortgage loans 
13,370 11,318 
 9,868 
 10,886 
 10,993 
  Home equity 
10,369 11,077 
 11,996 
 12,534 
 12,269 
  Automobile loans 
11,849 11,352 
 10,427 
 8,807 
 8,925 
  Credit card 
1,960 1,864 
 1,870 
 1,907 
 1,708 
  Other consumer loans and leases 
340
 529 
 743 
 1,009 
 1,212 
   Subtotal Œ consumer 
37,888
 36,140 
 34,904 
 35,143 
 35,107 
 Total average loans and leases 
$84,822
 80,214 
 79,232 
 83,391 
 85,835 
 Total average portfolio loans and leases (excludes loans held for sale) 
$82,733
 78,533 
 77,045 
 80,681 
 83,895 
        Average commercial loans and leases 
increased $2.9 billion, or six 
percent, compared to December 31,
 2011. The increase in average 
commercial loans and leases was driven by an increase in average 
commercial and industrial loans 
and commercial leases partially 
offset by a decrease in average commercial mortgage loans and 

average commercial construction loans. Average commercial and 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  52  Fifth Third Bancorp 
industrial loans increased $4.4 
billion, or 15%, average commercial 
mortgage loans decreased $761 million, or seven percent, and 

average commercial construction loans decreased $905 million, or 

52%, from December 31, 2011 due to the reasons previously 
discussed in the end of 
period discussion above. 
Average consumer loans and leas
es increased $1.7 billion, or 
five percent, compared to Decemb
er 31, 2011. The increase in 
average consumer loans and leases from December 31, 2011 was 

driven by an increase in average 
residential mortgage loans, average 
automobile loans, and average credit
 card loans partially offset by a 
decrease in average home equity loans. Average residential mortgage 

loans increased $2.1 billion, or 18%, average credit card balances 

increased $96 million, or five pe
rcent, and average home equity 
loans decreased $708 million, or six percent, from December 31, 
2011 due to the reasons previously discussed in the end of period 

discussion above. Average automobile loans increased $497 million, 

or four percent, due to strong originations in the second half of 

2011 and throughout 2012.   Investment Securities 
The Bancorp uses investment securities as a means of managing 
interest rate risk, providing liqui
dity support and providing collateral 
for pledging purposes. As of December 31, 2012, total investment 
securities were $15.7 billion compared to $15.9 billion at December 
31, 2011. See Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial 

Statements for the Bancorp™s methodology for both classifying 

investment securities and managemen
t™s evaluation of securities in 
an unrealized loss position for OTTI.  
At December 31, 2012, the Bancorp™s investment portfolio 
consisted primarily of AAA-rated 
available-for-sale securities. The 
Bancorp did not hold asset-backed 
securities backed by subprime 
mortgage loans in its investment portfolio. Additionally, there was 
approximately $100 million of secu
rities classified as below 
investment grade as of December 31, 2012, compared to $122 
million as of December 31, 2011. 
The Bancorp™s management has evaluated the securities in an 
unrealized loss position in the available-for-sale and held-to-

maturity portfolios for OTTI. During the years ended December 

31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, the Bancor
p recognized $58 million, $19 
million and $3 million of OTTI on its investment securities 

portfolio, respectively. The Bancorp did not recognize any OTTI on 

any of its held-to-maturity invest
ment securities during the years 
ended December 31, 2012, 2011 or 2010.  
 TABLE 20: COMPONENTS OF INVESTMENT SECURITIES
           As of December 31 ($ in millions)
  2012 
 2011 
 2010  
2009  
2008  
Available-for-sale and other: (amortized cost basis) 
            U.S. Treasury and government agencies
 $41 171 
  225 
 464 
 186
  U.S. Government sponsored agencies 
 1,730 1,782 
  1,564 
 2,143 
 1,651
  Obligations of states and political subdivisions 
 203
 96 
  170 
 240 
 323
  Agency mortgage-backed securities 
 8,403
 9,743 
  10,570 
 11,074 
 8,529
  Other bonds, notes and debentures
(a)  3,161 1,792 
  1,338 
 2,541 
 613
  Other securities
(b)  1,033 1,030 
  1,052 
 1,417 
 1,248
 Total available-for-sale and other securities 
$14,571 14,614 
  14,919 
 17,879 
 12,550
 Held-to-maturity: (amortized cost basis) 
            Obligations of states and political subdivisions
 $282
 320 
  348 
 350 
 355
  Other bonds, notes and debentures 
 2 2   5 
 5  5 Total held-to-maturity 
$284
 322 
  353 
 355 
 360
 Trading: (fair value) 
            Variable rate demand notes
 - -   106 
 235 
  1,140
  Other securities 
 207
 177 
  188 
 120 
 51 Total trading  
$207
 177 
  294 
 355 
 1,191
 (a) Other bonds, notes, and debentures consist 
of non-agency mortgage backed securities,
 certain other asset backed securities (pri
marily automobile and commercial loan backed securities) and corporate 
bond securities.  
(b) Other securities consist of FHLB and FRB restricted stock holdings
 that are carried at par, FHLMC and FNMA preferred stock hold
ings and certain mutual fund holdings and equity security 
holdings. 
 As of December 31, 2012, available
-for-sale securities on an 
amortized cost basis decreased $43 million from December 31, 2011 
due to a decrease in agency mort
gage-backed securities and U.S. 
Treasury and government agency secu
rities partially offset by an 
increase in obligations of states and political subdivision securities 

and other bonds, notes, and debentures. Agency mortgage-backed 

securities decreased $1.3 billion, or 14%, from December 31, 2011 

primarily due to sales of collate
ralized mortgage obligations and 
mortgage-backed securities totaling $2.2 billion which was partially 

offset by reinvesting cash flows 
from securities paydown activity. 
The decrease of $130 million, or 76%, in U.S. Treasury and 
government agencies securities was 
due to maturities and the excess 
cash was reinvested in obligations of states and political subdivisions 
securities which increased $107
 million, or 111%, from December 
31, 2011. Other bonds, notes, and debentures increased $1.4 billion, 

or 76%, due to purchases of commercial mortgage-backed 

securities, asset-backed securiti
es, and corporate bonds during the 
year partially offset by sales, paydowns, and bonds called during the 
year.  At December 31, 2012 and 2011, av
ailable-for-sale securities 
were 14% of total interest-earning assets. The estimated weighted-
average life of the debt securities 
in the available-for-sale portfolio 
was 3.8 years at December 31, 2012, compared to 3.6 years at 

December 31, 2011. In addition, at December 31, 2012, the 

available-for-sale securities portfolio
 had a weighted-average yield of 
3.30%, compared to 3.66% at December 31, 2011. 
Information presented in Table 21 is on a weighted-average life 
basis, anticipating future pr
epayments. Yield information is 
presented on an FTE basis and is computed using historical cost 
balances. Maturity and yield calculat
ions for the total available-for-
sale portfolio exclude equity securities that have no stated yield or 

maturity. Total net unrealized gains on the available-for-sale 

securities portfolio were $636 million at December 31, 2012, 

compared to $748 million at Decemb
er 31, 2011. The decrease in 
net unrealized gains was driven by the sales of agency mortgage-

backed securities which generated a total realized gain of $67 million 

recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The 
remaining decrease in net unrealized
 gains was due to a decline in 
interest rates. The fair value of investment securities is impacted by 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  53  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 interest rates, credit spreads, market volatility and liquidity 
conditions. The fair value of investment securities generally 
decreases when interest rates increase or when credit spreads widen.  
 TABLE 21: CHARACTERISTICS OF AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE AND OTHER SECURITIES
        Weighted-Average 
Weighted-Average 
 As of December 31, 2012
 ($ in millions)
 Amortized Cost Fair Value 
Life (in years) 
Yield 
 U.S. Treasury and government agencies:
           Average life of one year or less
 $40 
40 
 0.4 
 0.13 
%   Average life 5 Œ 10 years 
1 1  6.1 
 1.48 
 Total 41 
41 
 0.5 
 0.16 
 U.S. Government sponsored agencies:
   Average life of one year or less
 204 
206 
 0.5 
 2.50 
  Average life 1 Œ 5 years 
1,526 
1,705 
 4.0 
 3.63 
 Total 1,730 
1,911 
 3.6 
 3.50 
 Obligations of states and political subdivisions:
(a)   Average life of one year or less
 7 7  0.8 
 0.12 
  Average life 1 Œ 5 years 
84 
85 
 2.9 
 1.50 
  Average life 5 Œ 10 years 
96 
102 
 6.3 
 4.37 
  Average life greater than 10 years 
16 
18 
 11.3 
 5.21 
 Total 203 
212 
 5.1 
 3.10 
 Agency mortgage-backed securities:
   Average life of one year or less
 495 
506 
 0.7 
 4.44 
  Average life 1 Œ 5 years 
6,254 
6,529 
 3.3 
 3.59 
  Average life 5 Œ 10 years 
1,654 
1,695 
 5.8 
 3.42 
 Total 8,403 
8,730 
 3.6 
 3.60 
 Other bonds, notes and debentures:
   Average life of one year or less
 245 
252 
 0.7 
 1.46 
  Average life 1 Œ 5 years 
2,049 
2,135 
 3.4 
 2.55 
  Average life 5 Œ 10 years 
659 
677 
 6.4 
 2.52 
  Average life greater than 10 years 
208 
213 
 14.7 
 2.35 
 Total 3,161 
3,277 
 4.6 
 2.45 
 Other securities
 1,033 
1,036 
 Total available-for-sale and other securities
 $14,571 
15,207 
 3.8 
 3.30 
%  (a) Taxable-equivalent yield adjustments included in the above tabl
e are 0.03%, 0.01%, 0.40%, 1.79% and 0.34% for securities with a
n average life of one year or less, 1-5 years, 5-10 years, greater 
than 10 years and in total, respectively. 
 Deposits 
The Bancorp™s deposit balances represent an important source of 
funding and revenue growth opportunity. The Bancorp continues to 

focus on core deposit growth in 
its retail and commercial franchises by improving customer satisfacti
on, building full relationships and 
offering competitive rates. Core deposits represented 71% of the 

Bancorp™s asset funding base at December 31, 2012 and 2011. 
 TABLE 22: DEPOSITS 
            As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
 2012 
 2011 
 2010  
2009  
2008  
Demand  
$ 30,023 
  27,600 
 21,413 
 19,411 
 15,287 
 Interest checking   24,477 
  20,392 
 18,560 
 19,935 
 14,222 
 Savings 
  19,879 
  21,756 
 20,903 
 17,898 
 16,063 
 Money market   6,875 
  4,989 
 5,035 
 4,431 
 4,689 
 Foreign office 
  885 
  3,250 
 3,721 
 2,454 
 2,144 
 Transaction deposits 
  82,139 
  77,987 
 69,632 
 64,129 
 52,405 
 Other time   4,015 
  4,638 
 7,728 
 12,466 
 14,350 
 Core deposits 
  86,154 
  82,625 
 77,360 
 76,595 
 66,755 
 Certificates - $100,000 and over 
  3,284 
  3,039 
 4,287 
 7,700 
 11,851 
 Other   79 
  46 
 1  10 
 7  Total deposits 
$ 89,517 
  85,710 
 81,648 
 84,305 
 78,613 
    Core deposits increased $3.5 billion, or four percent, compared to 
December 31, 2011, driven by an increase of $4.2 billion, or five 

percent, in transaction deposits, partially offset by a decrease of 

$623 million, or 13%, in other time deposits. Transaction deposits 
increased due to an increase in demand deposits, interest checking 
deposits, and money market deposits partially offset by a decrease in 

savings deposits and foreign office deposits. Demand deposits 

increased $2.4 billion, or nine percent, from December 31, 2011 due 

to an increase in the average 
balance per account, new product 
offerings, and commercial customers opting to hold money in 
demand deposit accounts at year-end due to uncertainty over tax 

increases and U.S. fiscal policy. In
terest checking deposits increased 
$4.1 billion, or 20%, from December 31, 2011 due to account 
migration from foreign office deposits which decreased $2.4 billion, 
or 73%, from December 31, 2011. The remaining increase in 

interest checking deposits was due to continued growth from the 

preferred checking program which was introduced in early 2011 and 

growth from maturing certifica
tes of deposits. Money market 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  54  Fifth Third Bancorp 
deposits increased $1.9 billion, or 38%, due to account migration 
from savings deposits which decrease
d $1.9 billion, or nine percent, 
from December 31, 2011. Other time deposits decreased primarily 

as a result of continued run-off of
 certificates of deposits due to the 
low interest rate environment, as 
customers have opted to maintain 
balances in more liquid transaction accounts.  
Included in core deposits are foreign office deposits, which are 
primarily Eurodollar sweep a
ccounts from the Bancorp™s 
commercial customers. These accounts 
bear interest rates at slightly 
higher than money market accounts and unlike repurchase 
agreements the Bancorp does not have to pledge collateral.  
The Bancorp uses certificates of deposit $100,000 and over, as 
a method to fund earning asset growth. At December 31, 2012, 
certificates $100,000 and over increased $245 million, or eight 
percent, compared to December 31,
 2011 due to the diversification 
of funding sources through the i
ssuance of retail and institutional 
certificates of deposits in the fourth quarter of 2012.  The following table presents average deposits for the twelve months ending December 31: 
           TABLE 23: AVERAGE DEPOSITS
           As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
2012 
 2011 
 2010  
2009  
2008  
Demand  
$ 27,196 
  23,389 
 19,669 
 16,862 
 14,017 
 Interest checking  23,096 
  18,707 
 18,218 
 15,070 
 14,191 
 Savings 
 21,393 
  21,652 
 19,612 
 16,875 
 16,192 
 Money market  4,903 
  5,154 
 4,808 
 4,320 
 6,127 
 Foreign office 
 1,528 
  3,490 
 3,355 
 2,108 
 2,153 
 Transaction deposits 
 78,116 
  72,392 
 65,662 
 55,235 
 52,680 
 Other time  4,306 
  6,260 
 10,526 
 14,103 
 11,135 
 Core deposits 
 82,422 
  78,652 
 76,188 
 69,338 
 63,815 
 Certificates - $100,000 and over 
 3,102 
  3,656 
 6,083 
 10,367 
 9,531 
 Other  27 
 7  6  157 
 2,067 
 Total average deposits 
$ 85,551 
  82,315 
 82,277 
 79,862 
 75,413 
    On an average basis, core deposits increased $3.8 billion, or five 
percent, compared to December 31, 201
1 due to an increase of $5.7 
billion, or eight percent, in average transaction deposits partially 
offset by a decrease of $2.0 billi
on, or 31%, in average other time 
deposits. The increase in average transaction deposits was driven by 
an increase in average demand deposits and average interest 
checking deposits, partially offset by a decrease in average foreign 
office deposits due to the reasons discussed in the end of period 
section. The decrease in average other time deposits was due to the 

reasons discussed in the end of period discussion.  
 On an end of period basis, other time deposits and certifica
tes $100,000 and over totaled $7.3 billion and $7.7 billion at Dece
mber 31, 2012 and 
2011, respectively. All of these deposits were interest-bearing. 
 The contractual maturities of certifica
tes $100,000 and over as of December 31, 
2012 are summarized in the following table:
     TABLE 24: CONTRACTUAL MATURITIES OF CERTIFICATES $100,000 AND OVER
    As of  December 31 ($ in millions)  
 2012  
Three months or less 
$ 1,444 
 After three months through six months 
  230 
 After six months through 12 months 
  639 
 After 12 months 
  971 
 Total 
$ 3,284 
  The contractual maturities of other time deposits and certifi
cates $100,000 and over as of December 31, 2012 are summarized in 
the following table:      TABLE 25: CONTRACTUAL MATURITIES OF OTHER TIME DEPOSITS AND CERTIFICATES $100,000 AND OVER
    As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
 2012  
Next 12 months 
$ 4,834 
 13-24 months 
  1,464 
 25-36 months 
  565 
 37-48 months 
  231 
 49-60 months 
  152 
 After 60 months 
  53 
 Total 
$ 7,299 
  Borrowings
 Total borrowings increased $1.0 billion, or eight percent, from 

December 31, 2011 due to an increase in other short-term 

borrowings and federal funds purchased, partially offset by a 
decrease in long-term debt. Total borrowings as a percentage of 
interest-bearing liabilities were
 19% at both December 31, 2012 and 
2011. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  55  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  TABLE 26: BORROWINGS
           As of December 31 ($ in millions)
  2012  
2011 
 2010  
2009  
2008  
Federal funds purchased 
$ 901 
  346 
  279 
  182 
  287 
 Other short-term borrowings 
 6,280 
  3,239 
  1,574 
  1,415 
  9,959 
 Long-term debt 
 7,085 
  9,682 
  9,558 
  10,507 
  13,585 
 Total borrowings 
$ 14,266 
  13,267 
  11,411 
  12,104 
  23,831 
      Federal funds purchased increased by $555 million, or 160%, from 
December 31, 2011 driven by an increase in excess balances in 

reserve accounts held at Federal Reserve Banks that the Bancorp 

purchased from other member bank
s on an overnight basis. Other 
short-term borrowings increase
d $3.0 billion, or 94%, from 
December 31, 2011 driven by an increase of $3.2 billion in short-

term FHLB borrowings offset by a decrease of $132 million in 

securities sold under repurchase agreements which are accounted 
for as collateralized financing tr
ansactions. The level of these 
borrowings can fluctuate significantly from period to period 

depending on funding needs and which sources are used to satisfy 

those needs. Long-term debt decreased $2.6 billion, or 27%, from 

December 31, 2011 driven by the redemption of $1.4 billion of 

TruPS during the third quarter of 2012 and the extinguishment of 

$1.0 billion of long-term FHLB advances during the fourth quarter 

of 2012.   TABLE 27: AVERAGE BORROWINGS
            As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
 2012 
 2011 
 2010  
2009  
2008  
Federal funds purchased 
$ 560 
  345 
  291 
  517 
  2,975 
 Other short-term borrowings 
  4,246 
  2,777 
  1,635 
  6,463 
  7,785 
 Long-term debt 
  9,043 
  10,154 
  10,902 
  11,035 
  13,903 
 Total average borrowings 
$ 13,849 
  13,276 
  12,828 
  18,015 
  24,663 
  Average total borrowings increased 
$573 million, or four percent, 
compared to December 31, 2011, pr
imarily due to an increase in 
average federal funds purchased an
d other short-term borrowings, 
partially offset by a decrease in average long-term debt. Average 
federal funds purchased increased $215 million, or 62%, primarily 
due to an increase in excess balan
ces in reserve accounts held at 
Federal Reserve Banks that the Bancorp purchased from other 

member banks on an overnight basis. Average other short-term 

borrowings increased $1.5 billion, or 53%, primarily due to the 

previously mentioned increase in short-term FHLB borrowings. 

Average long-term debt decreased $1.1 billion, or 11%, primarily 

due to the previously mentioned extinguishment of $1.0 billion in 
long-term FHLB borrowings and the redemption of $1.4 billion of 
certain TruPS during the year ended December 31, 2012. 
Information on the average rates paid on borrowings is 
discussed in the net interest income section of the MD&A. In 

addition, refer to the Liquidit
y Risk Management section for a 
discussion on the role of borrowi
ngs in the Bancorp™s liquidity 
management. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  56  Fifth Third Bancorp 
RISK MANAGEMENT Managing risk is an essential com
ponent of successfully operating a 
financial services company. The Bancorp™s risk management 

approach includes processes for 
identifying, assessing, managing, 
monitoring and reporting risks. The ERM division, led by the 
Bancorp™s Chief Risk Officer, and the Bancorp Credit division, led 

by the Bancorp™s Chief Credit O
fficer, ensure the consistency and 
adequacy of the Bancorp™s risk management approach within the 

structure of the Bancorp™s affiliate 
operating model. In addition, the 
Internal Audit division provides an independent assessment of the 

Bancorp™s internal control structure and related systems and 

processes. 
The assumption of risk requir
es robust and active risk 
management practices that comprise an integrated and 

comprehensive set of activities, measu
res and strategies that apply to 
the entire organization. The Bancorp has established a Risk Appetite 
Framework that provides the founda
tions of corporate risk capacity, 
risk appetite and risk tolerances
. The Bancorp™s risk capacity is 
represented by its available financial resources. Risk capacity sets an 

absolute limit on risk-assumption 
in the Bancorp™s annual and 
strategic plans. The Bancorp understands that not all financial 
resources may persist as viable loss buffers over time. Further, 

consideration must be given to planned or foreseeable events that 

would reduce risk capacity. Those fa
ctors take the form of capacity 
adjustments to arrive at an Operating Risk Capacity which 

represents the operating risk level the Bancorp can assume while 

maintaining its solvency standard. The Bancorp™s policy currently 

discounts its Operating Risk Capaci
ty by a minimum of five percent 
to provide a buffer; as a result, the 
Bancorp™s risk appetite is limited 
by policy to, at most, 95% of its Operating Risk Capacity. 
Economic capital is the amount of unencumbered financial 
resources required to support the Bancorp™s risks. The Bancorp 

measures economic capital under the 
assumption that it expects to 
maintain debt ratings at strong investment grade levels over time. 

The Bancorp™s capital policies require that the Operating Risk 

Capacity less the aforementioned buffer exceed the calculated 
economic capital required in its business. 
Risk appetite is the aggregate amount of risk the Bancorp is 
willing to accept in pursuit of its strategic and financial objectives. 

By establishing boundaries arou
nd risk taking and business 
decisions, and by incorporating the needs and goals of its 

shareholders, regulators, rating agencies and customers, the 

Bancorp™s risk appetite is aligned with its priorities and goals. Risk 

tolerance is the maximum amount of risk applicable to each of the 
eight specific risk categories in
cluded in its Enterprise Risk 
Management Framework. This is ex
pressed primarily in qualitative 
terms. The Bancorp™s risk appetite and risk tolerances are supported 

by risk targets and risk limits. Those limits are used to monitor the 

amount of risk assumed at a granular level. 
The risks faced by the Bancorp include, but are not limited to, 
credit, market, liquidity, operation
al, regulatory compliance, legal, 
reputational and strategic. Each of these risks is managed through 
the Bancorp™s risk program which includes the following key 
functions: 
   Ł   Enterprise Risk Management Programs is responsible for 
developing and overseeing the implementation of risk 

programs and reporting that facilitate a broad integrated 
view of risk. The department also leads the continual 
fostering of a strong risk management culture and the 
framework, policies and committees that support effective 
risk governance, including the oversight of Sarbanes-Oxley 

compliance;   Ł   Commercial Credit Risk Management provides safety and 
soundness within an independent portfolio management 
framework that supports the Bancorp™s commercial loan 
growth strategies and underw
riting practices, ensuring 
portfolio optimization and appropriate risk controls; 
 Ł Risk Strategies and Reporting is responsible for 
quantitative analysis needed to support the commercial 

dual rating methodology, ALLL methodology and analytics 

needed to assess credit risk and develop mitigation 

strategies related to that risk. The department also provides 

oversight, reporting and monitoring of commercial 

underwriting and credit admini
stration processes. The Risk 
Strategies and Reporting department is also responsible for 
the economic capital program; 
 Ł Consumer Credit Risk Management provides safety and 
soundness within an independent management framework 

that supports the Bancorp™s consumer loan growth 

strategies, ensuring portfolio 
optimization, appropriate risk 
controls and oversight, reporting, and monitoring of 

underwriting and credit administration processes; 
 Ł Operational Risk Management works with affiliates and 
lines of business to maintain processes to monitor and 
manage all aspects of operati
onal risk, including ensuring 
consistency in application of operational risk programs; 
 Ł Bank Protection oversees and manages fraud prevention 
and detection and provides investigative and recovery 

services for the Bancorp; 
 Ł Capital Markets Risk Management is responsible for 
instituting, monitoring, and reporting appropriate trading 
limits, monitoring liquidity, interest rate risk and risk 
tolerances within Treasury, 
Mortgage, and Capital Markets groups and utilizing a value at risk model for Bancorp 

market risk exposure;  Ł Regulatory Compliance Risk Management ensures that 
processes are in place to monitor and comply with federal 

and state banking regulations, including processes related 

to fiduciary, community reinvestment act and fair lending 
compliance. The function also has the responsibility for 
maintenance of an enterprise-wide compliance framework; 

and  Ł The ERM division creates and maintains other functions, 
committees or processes as are necessary to effectively 

manage risk throughout the Bancorp. 
 
Risk management oversight and governance is provided by the 
Risk and Compliance Committee of 
the Board of Directors and 
through multiple management committees whose membership 

includes a broad cross-section of
 line-of-business, affiliate and 
support representatives. The Risk and Compliance Committee of 

the Board of Directors consists of five outside directors and has the 

responsibility for the oversight of ri
sk management for the Bancorp, 
as well as for the Bancorp™s overall aggregate risk profile. The Risk 

and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors has approved 
the formation of key management governance committees that are 
responsible for evaluating risks and controls. The primary 

committee responsible for the oversight of risk management is the 

ERMC. Committees accountable to the ERMC, which support the 

core risk programs, are the Corporate Credit Committee, the 

Operational Risk Committee,
 the Management Compliance 
Committee, the Asset/Liability 
Committee and the Enterprise 
Marketing Committee. Other commi
ttees accountable to the ERMC 
oversee the ALLL, capital and community reinvestment act/fair 
lending functions. There are also new products and initiatives 

processes applicable to every line of business to ensure an 

appropriate standard readiness assessment is performed before 

launching a new product or initiative. Significant risk policies 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  57  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 approved by the management governance committees are also 
reviewed and approved by the Risk and Compliance Committee of 

the Board of Directors. 
Credit Risk Review is an independent function responsible for 
evaluating the sufficiency of un
derwriting, documentation and approval processes for consumer and commercial credits; the 
accuracy of risk grades assigned
 to commercial credit exposure; 
nonaccrual status; specific reserves and monitoring of charge-offs. 

Credit Risk Review reports dir
ectly to the Risk and Compliance 
Committee of the Board of Directors and administratively to the 
Chief Auditor. 
 CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT 
The objective of the Bancorp™s credit
 risk management strategy is to 
quantify and manage credit risk on an aggregate portfolio basis, as 

well as to limit the risk of loss resulting from an individual customer 

default. The Bancorp's credit risk management strategy is based on 

three core principles: conservatism, diversification and monitoring. 

The Bancorp believes that effective credit risk management begins 

with conservative lending practices. These practices include 

conservative exposure and counte
rparty limits and conservative 
underwriting, documentation an
d collection standards. The 
Bancorp's credit risk management strategy also emphasizes 

diversification on a geographic, industry and customer level as well 

as regular credit examinations 
and timely management reviews of large credit exposures and credit
s experiencing deterioration of 
credit quality. Credit officers with 
the authority to extend credit are 
delegated specific authority amounts, the utilization of which is 

closely monitored. Underwriting 
activities are centrally managed, 
and ERM manages the policy and the authority delegation process 
directly. The Credit Risk Revi
ew function provides objective 
assessments of the quality of unde
rwriting and documentation, the 
accuracy of risk grades and the charge-off, nonaccrual and reserve 

analysis process. The Bancorp™s cr
edit review process and overall 
assessment of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses is 
based on quarterly assessments of the probable estimated losses 
inherent in the loan and lease 
portfolio. The Bancorp uses these 
assessments to promptly identify potential problem loans or leases 

within the portfolio, maintain an
 adequate reserve and take any 
necessary charge-offs.  The Bancorp defines potential problem 

loans as those rated substandard that do not meet the definition of a 

nonperforming asset or a restructured loan.  See Note 6 of the 

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further 
information on the Bancorp™s credit grade categories, which are 
derived from standard regulatory rating definitions.   
 The following tables provide a summary of potential problem loans as of December 31:       TABLE 28: POTENTIAL PROBLEM LOANS
           Unpaid  
    Carrying 
 Principal  
  As of December 31, 2012 ($ in millions)
  Value  Balance  
Exposure 
Commercial and industrial  $ 1,015 
  1,017 
  1,212 
Commercial mortgage
   848 
  849 
  851 
Commercial construction
   87 
  87 
  100 
Commercial leases 
   9 
  9 
  9 
Total 
 $ 1,959 
  1,962 
  2,172 
    TABLE 29: POTENTIAL PROBLEM LOANS
           Unpaid  
    Carrying 
 Principal  
  As of December 31, 2011
 ($ in millions) 
 Value   Balance  
Exposure 
Commercial and industrial  $ 1,376 
  1,376 
  1,744 
Commercial mortgage 
  1,215 
  1,216 
  1,223 
Commercial construction 
  239 
  240 
  258 
Commercial leases  
  33 
  33 
  33 
Total  
$ 2,863 
  2,865 
  3,258 
       In addition to the individual review of larger commercial loans that 
exhibit probable or observed credit weaknesses, the commercial 

credit review process includes the use of two risk grading systems. 

The risk grading system currently utilized for reserve analysis 

purposes encompasses ten categories. The Bancorp also maintains a 

dual risk rating system for credit approval and pricing, portfolio 

monitoring and capital allocation th
at includes a ﬁthrough-the-cycleﬂ rating philosophy for modeling expected losses. The dual risk rating 
system includes thirteen probabilitie
s of default grade categories and 
an additional six grade categories for estimating losses given an 

event of default. The probability of default and loss given default 

evaluations are not separated in the 
ten-category risk rating system. 
The Bancorp has completed significant validation and testing of the 

dual risk rating system as a commercial credit risk management tool. 

The Bancorp is assessing the nece
ssary modifications to the dual 
risk rating system outputs to develop a GAAP compliant ALLL 
model and will make a decision on the use of modified dual risk 
ratings for purposes of determining the Bancorp™s ALLL once the 

FASB has issued a final standa
rd regarding proposed methodology 
changes to the determination of credit impairment as outlined in the 

FASB™s proposed Accounting Standard UpdateŠ
Financial 
InstrumentsŒCredit Losses
 (Subtopic 825-15) issued on December 20, 
2012. Scoring systems, various analytical tools and delinquency 

monitoring are used to assess the credit risk in the Bancorp™s 

homogenous consumer and small business loan portfolios. 
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  58  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Overview 
General economic conditions showed only modest improvement in 

2011 and 2012 as the economic recovery struggled to gain any 

significant momentum.  Uncertainty in terms of finding long term 

solutions for federal government deficit spending continues to 

weigh on the economy.   Geographi
cally, the Bancorp continues to experience the most stress in Michigan and Florida due to the 
decline in real estate values. Re
al estate value deterioration, as 
measured by the Home Price Index, was most prevalent in Florida 

due to past real estate price appreciation and related over-

development, and in Michigan due in
 part to cutbacks in automobile 
manufacturing and the state™s economic downturn. Among 

commercial portfolios, the homebuilder, residential developer and 

portions of the remaining non-owner occupied commercial real 

estate portfolios continue to remain under stress. Among consumer portfolios, residential mortgage and 
brokered home equity portfolios exhibited the most stress. 

Management suspended homebuilder 
and developer lending in 2007 
and new commercial non-owner occupied real estate lending in 

2008, discontinued the origination of brokered home equity 

products at the end of 2007 and tightened underwriting standards 

across both the commercial and consumer loan product offerings. 

With the stabilization of certain real estate markets, the Bank began 
to selectively originate new homebuilder and developer lending and 
non-owner occupied commercial lending real estate in the third 

quarter of 2011. However, the level 
of new originations is below the 
amortization and pay-off of the current portfolio.
 Since the fourth 
quarter of 2008, in an effort to reduce loan exposure to the real 

estate and construction industries, the Bancorp has sold certain 

consumer loans and sold or transferred to held for sale certain 

commercial loans. Throughout 
2011 and 2012, the Bancorp 
continued to aggressively engage 
in other loss mitigation strategies 
such as reducing credit commitments, restructuring certain 

commercial and consumer loans, tigh
tening underwriting standards 
on commercial loans and across the c
onsumer loan portfolio, as well 
as utilizing expanded commerc
ial and consumer loan workout 
teams. For commercial and consumer loans owned by the Bancorp, 

loan modification strategies are developed that are workable for 

both the borrower and the Bancorp when the borrower displays a 
willingness to cooperate. These stra
tegies typically involve either a 
reduction of the stated interest rate of the loan, an extension of the 

loan™s maturity date(s) with a st
ated rate lower than the current 
market rate for a new loan with similar risk, or in limited 

circumstances, a reduction of the principal balance of the loan or 

the loan™s accrued interest. For residential mortgage loans serviced 

for FHLMC and FNMA, the Bancorp participates in the HAMP 

and HARP 2.0 programs. For loans refinanced under the HARP 2.0 
program, the Bancorp strictly adheres to the underwriting 
requirements of the program and promptly sells the refinanced loan 

back to the agencies. Loan restructuring under the HAMP program 

is performed on behalf of FHLMC or FNMA and the Bancorp does 

not take possession of these loans 
during the modification process. 
Therefore, participation in these programs does not significantly 

impact the Bancorp™s credit quality statistics. The Bancorp 

participates in trial modifications in conjunction with the HAMP 
program for loans it services fo
r FHLMC and FNMA. As these trial 
modifications relate to loans serviced for others, they are not 

included in the Bancorp™s troubled debt restructurings as they are 

not assets of the Bancorp. In the event there is a representation and 

warranty violation on loans sold through the programs, the Bancorp 

may be required to repurchase the sold loan. As of December 31, 

2012, repurchased loans restructured or refinanced under these 

programs were immaterial to the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial 
Statements. Additionally, as of December 31, 2012, $475 million of 
loans refinanced under HARP 2.0 were included in loans held for 
sale in the Bancorp™s Consolidated Balance Sheets. For the year 
ended December 31, 2012 the Bancorp recognized $218 million of 

fee income in mortgage banking net revenue in the Bancorp™s 

Consolidated Statements of Income 
related to the sale of loans 
restructured or refinanced under the HAMP and HARP 2.0 
programs. 
In the financial services industry, there has been heightened 
focus on foreclosure activity and processes. The Bancorp actively 

works with borrowers experiencing
 difficulties and has regularly 
modified or provided forbearance to borrowers where a workable 

solution could be found. Forecl
osure is a last resort, and the 
Bancorp undertakes foreclosures only when it believes they are 
necessary and appropriate and is careful to ensure that customer and 
loan data are accurate. Reviews of
 the Bancorp™s foreclosure process 
and procedures conducted in 2010 did not reveal any material 

deficiencies. These reviews were ex
panded and extended in 2011 to 
improve the Bancorp™s processes as additional aspects of the 

industry's foreclosure practices ha
ve come under intensified scrutiny 
and criticism. These reviews are complete and the Bancorp has 

enhanced some of its processes and procedures to address some 
concerns that were raised and to comply with changes in state laws. 
  Commercial Portfolio  

The Bancorp™s credit risk managemen
t strategy includes minimizing 
concentrations of risk through 
diversification. The Bancorp has 
commercial loan concentration limit
s based on industry, lines of 
business within the commercial segment, geography and credit 

product type. 
The risk within the commercial 
loan and lease portfolio is 
managed and monitored through an underwriting process utilizing 

detailed origination policies, continuous loan level reviews, 

monitoring of industry concentration and product type limits and 

continuous portfolio risk management reporting. The origination 

policies for commercial real estate outline the risks and underwriting 

requirements for owner and non-owner occupied and construction 

lending. Included in the policies are maturity and amortization 
terms, maximum LTVs, minimum de
bt service coverage ratios, 
construction loan monitoring procedures, appraisal requirements, 

pre-leasing requirements (as app
licable) and sensitivity and pro-
forma analysis requirements. The Bancorp requires a valuation of 

real estate collateral, which may 
include third-party appraisals, be 
performed at the time of origination and renewal in accordance with 

regulatory requirements and on an as needed basis when market 

conditions justify. Although the 
Bancorp does not back test these 
collateral value assumptions, the Bancorp maintains an appraisal 
review department to order and review third-party appraisals in 

accordance with regulatory requirements. Collateral values on 

criticized assets with relationships exceeding $1 million are reviewed 

quarterly to assess the appropriateness of the value ascribed in the 

assessment of charge-offs and specific reserves. In addition, the 

Bancorp applies incremental valuation haircuts to older appraisals 
that relate to collateral dependent lo
ans, which can currently be up 
to 25-40% of the appraised value based on the type of collateral. 
These incremental valuation haircuts generally reflect the age of the 

most recent appraisal as well as co
llateral type. Trends in collateral 
values, such as home price indices and recent asset dispositions, are 

monitored in order to determine whether adjustments to the 

appraisal haircuts are warranted. Other factors such as local market 

conditions or location may also be considered as necessary. 
The Bancorp assesses all real estate and non-real estate 
collateral securing a loan and cons
iders all cross collateralized loans 
in the calculation of the LTV rati
o. The following table provides 
detail on the most recent LTV ratios for commercial mortgage loans 
greater than $1 million, excluding impaired commercial mortgage 

loans individually evaluated. The Bancorp does not typically 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  59  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 aggregate the LTV ratios for commercial 
mortgage loans less than $1 million. 
 TABLE 30: COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE LOANS OUTSTANDING BY LTV, LOANS GREATER THAN $1 MILLION
 As of December 31, 2012 ($ in millions) 
 LTV > 100% 
LTV 80-100%
LTV  80% 
Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans 
$390 
 302 
 2,325 
 Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans 
450 
 605 
 1,955 
 Total  
$840 
 907 
 4,280 
  TABLE 31: COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE LOANS OUTSTANDING BY LTV, LOANS GREATER THAN $1 MILLION
 As of December 31, 2011($ in millions)
  LTV > 100% 
LTV 80-100%
LTV  80% 
Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans 
$528 
 419 
 2,353 
 Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans 
684 
 734 
 2,164 
 Total  
$1,212 
 1,153 
 4,517 
  The following table provides detail on commerc
ial loan and leases by industry classifi
cation (as defined by the North American 
IndustryClassification System), by loan size and by
 state, illustrating the diversity and gr
anularity of the Bancorp™s commercial loans and leases:                 TABLE 32: COMMERCIAL LOAN AND LEASE PORTFOLIO (EXCLUDING LOANS HELD FOR SALE)
          2012 
 2011  
As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
 Outstanding
  Exposure 
Nonaccrual 
 Outstanding 
 Exposure 
Nonaccrual 
By industry: 
                Manufacturing 
$ 9,982 
   18,414 
  58 
 $ 9,020 
   17,065 
  116 
  Real estate 
  5,588 
   6,840 
  198 
   6,274 
   7,060 
  299 
  Financial services and insurance 
  4,886 
   12,062 
  54 
  4,596 
   9,975 
  46 
  Business services 
  4,600 
   6,917 
  56 
  3,898 
   5,976 
  78 
  Healthcare 
  4,079 
   6,094 
  14 
  3,477 
   5,179 
  15 
  Wholesale trade 
  4,042 
   7,401 
  26 
  3,656 
   6,796 
  50 
  Transportation and warehousing 
  3,105 
   4,222 
  3 
  2,304 
   3,152 
  16 
  Retail trade 
  2,624 
   5,699 
  38 
  2,639 
   5,548 
  56 
  Construction 
  1,995 
   3,254 
  105 
  2,226 
   3,470 
  199 
  Mining 
  1,683 
   2,767 
  - 
 1,157 
   1,994 
  7 
  Communication and information 
  1,547 
   2,631 
  19 
  1,128 
   2,117 
  3 
  Accommodation and food 
  1,478 
   2,160 
  17 
  1,127 
   1,636 
  22 
  Other services 
  1,156 
   1,517 
  42 
  998 
   1,503 
  48 
  Entertainment and recreation   914 
   1,393 
  11 
  874 
   1,228 
  18 
  Utilities 
  608 
   2,009 
  - 
 564 
   1,752 
  - 
  Public administration  
  441 
   693 
  - 
  644 
   886 
  - 
  Agribusiness 
  376 
   527 
  44 
  425 
   564 
  65 
  Individuals 
  281 
   335 
  12 
  460 
   512 
  20 
  Other   3 
   2 
  - 
  5 
   5 
  - 
 Total 
$ 49,388 
   84,937 
  697 
 $ 45,472 
   76,418 
  1,058 
 By loan size: 
                Less than $200,000 
  2 
%   1 
  9 
  2 
%   2 
  7 
  $200,000 to $1 million 
  6 
   5 
  22 
  8 
   6 
  23 
  $1 million to $5 million 
  15 
   12 
  28 
  18 
   15 
  32 
  $5 million to $10 million 
  11 
   9 
  13 
  12 
   10 
  15 
  $10 million to $25 million 
  27 
   25 
  24 
  28 
   25 
  19 
  Greater than $25 million 
  39 
   48 
  4 
  32 
   42 
  4 
 Total 
  100 
%   100 
  100 
  100 
%   100 
  100 
 By state: 
                Ohio   20 
%   24 
  13 
  24 
%   27 
  16 
  Michigan 
  11 
   10 
  17 
  13 
   11 
  22 
  Illinois 
  8 
   8 
  8 
  7 
   8 
  10 
  Florida 
  7 
   6 
  19 
  8 
   6 
  17 
  Indiana 
  5 
   5 
  11 
  5 
   5 
  10 
  Kentucky 
  4 
   3 
  4 
  4 
   4 
  4 
  North Carolina 
  3 
   3 
  2 
  3 
   3 
  4 
  Tennessee   3 
   3 
  5 
  3 
   3 
  2 
  Pennsylvania 
  3 
   2 
  1 
  2 
   2 
  1 
  All other states 
  36 
   36 
  20 
  31 
   31 
  14 
 Total 
  100 
%   100 
  100 
  100 
%   100 
  100 
                  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  60  Fifth Third Bancorp 
The Bancorp has identified certain categories of loans which it 
believes represent a higher level of risk compared to the rest of the 
Bancorp™s loan portfolio, due to economic or market conditions 
within the Bancorp™s key lending areas.  
 The following table provides analysis of each of the categories
 of loans (excluding loans held for sale) by state as of Decembe
r 31, 2012 and 2011:
   TABLE 33: NON-OWNER OCCUPIED COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE
(a)
      As of December 31, 2012 ($ in millions)
      For the Year Ended 
December 31, 2012
   90 Days
 Net Charge-offs   
By State: 
Outstanding 
Exposure 
Past Due 
Nonaccrual 
Ohio $1,236 
 1,351  - 
  39 
  19 
Michigan
  1,098 
 1,123  - 
  49 
  32 
Florida
  596 
 632
  - 
  42 
  20 
Illinois
  430 
 481  - 
  21 
  11 
Indiana  283 
 303
  - 
  14 
  2 
North Carolina
  205 
 228
  - 
  12 
  6 
All other states
  972 
 1,250  - 
  33 
  (3)
Total $4,820 
 5,368
  - 
  210 
  87 
(a) Included in commercial mortgage and commercial cons
truction loans on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
 TABLE 34: NON-OWNER OCCUPIED COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE
(a)
       As of December 31, 2011
 ($ in millions)
      For the Year Ended  
December 31, 2011
   90 Days
 Net Charge-offs   
By State: 
 Outstanding 
Exposure 
Past Due 
Nonaccrual 
Ohio $ 1,958 
 2,125
 1 
 88 
 64 
Michigan 
  1,443 
 1,476
 1 
 77 
 39 
Florida 
  713 
 740
 - 
 72 
 44 
Illinois 
  417 
 499
 1 
 44 
 31 
Indiana 
  312 
 316
 - 
 13 
 6 
North Carolina 
  302 
 332
 - 
 33 
 13 
All other states 
  586 
 650
 - 
 35 
 14 
Total 
$ 5,731 
 6,138
  3 
 362 
 211 
(a) Included in commercial mortgage and commercial cons
truction loans on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
 TABLE 35: HOMEBUILDER AND DEVELOPER
(a)
       As of December 31, 2012 ($ in millions)
      For the Year Ended 
December 31, 2012
   90 Days
 Net Charge-offs   
By State: 
 Outstanding 
Exposure 
Past Due 
Nonaccrual 
Ohio $ 133 
  199
  - 
 11 
  7 
Michigan
   52 
  60
  - 
 6 
  7 
Florida
   32 
  59
  - 
 3 
  10 
North Carolina
   24 
  34
  - 
 4 
  1 
Indiana   18 
  21  - 
 8 
  - 
Illinois
   28 
  31  - 
 8 
  3 
All other states
   31 
  35
  - 
 2 
  - 
Total $ 318 
  439
  - 
  42 
  28 
(a) Homebuilder and Developer loans, exclusive 
of commercial and industrial loans with an outstanding balance of $73 and a total ex
posure of $132 are also included in Table 33: Non-Owner 
Occupied Commercial Real Estate.
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  61  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 36: HOMEBUILDER AND DEVELOPER
(a)
      As of December 31, 2011
 ($ in millions)
      For the Year Ended 
December 31, 2011
   90 Days
 Net Charge-offs   
By State: 
 Outstanding 
Exposure 
Past Due 
Nonaccrual 
Ohio $ 166 
 234
 - 
 15 
 22 
Michigan 
  108 
 128
 - 
 8 
 7 
Florida 
  64 
 73
 - 
 27 
 12 
North Carolina 
  50 
 56
 - 
 13 
 7 
Indiana 
  51 
 56
 - 
 10 
 3 
Illinois 
  16 
 27
 - 
 9 
 4 
All other states 
  57 
 69
 - 
 14 
 1 
Total 
$ 512 
 643
 - 
 96 
 56 
(a) Homebuilder and Developer loans, exclusive of commercial and indu
strial loans with an outstanding balance of $136 and a total e
xposure of $222 are also incl
uded in Table 34: Non-Owner 
Occupied Commercial Real Estate.
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  62  Fifth Third Bancorp 
Consumer Portfolio
 The Bancorp™s consumer portfolio 
is materially comprised of three 
categories of loans: residential mortgage, home equity, and 

automobile. The Bancorp has identi
fied certain categories within 
these loan types which it believes represent a higher level of risk 
compared to the rest of the consumer loan portfolio due to high 

loan amount to collateral value.  
The Bancorp does not update LTV 
ratios for the consumer portfolio subsequent to origination except 

as part of the charge-off process 
for real estate secured loans.    Residential Mortgage Portfolio The Bancorp manages credit risk in the residential mortgage 

portfolio through conservative underwriting and documentation 

standards and geographic and product diversification. The Bancorp 
may also package and sell loans in the portfolio. 
The Bancorp does not originate mortgage loans that permit 
customers to defer principal payments or make payments that are 
less than the accruing interest. The Bancorp originates both fixed 
and adjustable rate residential mortgage loans. Resets of rates on 

adjustable rate mortgages are not expected to have a material impact 

on credit costs in the current interest rate environment, as 
approximately $1.1 billion of adju
stable rate residential mortgage 
loans will have rate resets during 
the next twelve months, with less 
than one percent of those resets expected to experience an increase 

in monthly payments in comparison to the monthly payment at the 

time of origination.  
Certain residential mortgage products have contractual features 
that may increase credit exposure to the Bancorp in the event of a 

decline in housing values. These types of mortgage products offered 
by the Bancorp include loans with 
high LTV ratios, multiple loans 
on the same collateral that when comb
ined result in an LTV greater 
than 80% and interest-only loans. The Bancorp monitors residential 

mortgage loans with greater than
 80% LTV ratios and no mortgage 
insurance as it believes these loans 
represent a higher level of risk. 
  The following table provides an analysis of the residential mortga
ge portfolio loans outstanding, excluding held for sale, by L
TV at origination:             TABLE 37: RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PORT
FOLIO LOANS BY LTV AT ORIGINATION
   2012 
   2011  
    Weighted 
Average LTV 
    Weighted 
Average LTV
As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
 Outstanding 
   Outstanding  
LTV  80% 
$ 8,993 
  65.8 
%  $  7,876 
 66.6 
%LTV > 80%, with mortgage insurance 
  1,165 
  93.6 
    1,030 
 92.7 
 LTV > 80%, no mortgage insurance 
  1,859 
  95.6 
    1,766 
 95.6 
 Total  
$ 12,017 
  73.1 
%  $  10,672 
 73.9 
% The following tables provide analysis of the residential mortgage 
portfolio loans outstanding, ex
cluding held for sale, with a 
greater than 80% LT
V ratio and no mortgage insurance as of December 31, 2012 and 2011:
    TABLE 38: RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PORTFOLIO LOANS, LTV GREATER THAN 80%, NO MORTGAGE INSURANCE
As of December 31, 2012 ($ in millions) 
     For the Year Ended 
December 31, 2012 
  90 Days 
Net Charge-offs 
By State: 
 Outstanding
Past Due 
Nonaccrual 
Ohio  $ 600
 4 
 24 
 13 
Michigan
   310
 1 
 10 
 10 
Florida
   262
 - 
 17 
 15 
North Carolina
   111
 1 
 5 
 3 
Indiana   115
 1 
 5 
 2 
Illinois
   193
 1 
 5 
 3 
Kentucky   89
 1 
 2 
 1 
All other states
   179
 - 
 5 
 5 
Total $ 1,859
 9 
 73 
 52 
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  63  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 39: RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE PORTFOLIO LOANS, LTV GREATER THAN 80%, NO MORTGAGE INSURANCE
As of December 31, 2011
 ($ in millions)
      For the Year Ended 
December 31, 2011 
   90 Days 
  Net Charge-offs 
By State: 
 Outstanding 
Past Due 
Nonaccrual 
Ohio  $ 600
 6 
 25 
 15 
Michigan 
  305
 1 
 14 
 13 
Florida 
  283
 2 
 27 
 29 
North Carolina 
  123
 - 
 4 
 7 
Indiana 
  111
 1 
 4 
 2 
Illinois 
  122
 1 
 3 
 2 
Kentucky 
  84
 1 
 3 
 1 
All other states 
  138
 1 
 5 
 7 
Total 
$ 1,766
 13 
 85 
 76 
  Home Equity Portfolio The Bancorp™s home equity portfolio is primarily comprised of 

home equity lines of credit. The home equity line of credit offered 

by the Bancorp is a revolving facility with a 20-year term, minimum 
payments of interest only and a balloon payment of principal at 
maturity.  The ALLL provides coverage for probable and estimable losses 
in the home equity portfolio. Th
e allowance attributable to the 
portion of the home equity portfolio that has not been restructured 

in a TDR is calculated on a pooled basis with first lien and junior-

lien categories segmented in the 
determination of the probable 
credit losses in the home equity portfolio. The modeled loss factor 
for the home equity portfolio is based on the trailing twelve month 
historical loss rate for each category, as adjusted for certain 

prescriptive loss rate factors and certain qualitative adjustment 

factors to reflect risks associated 
with current conditions and trends. 
The prescriptive loss rate factors include adjustments for 

delinquency trends, LTV trends, re
freshed FICO score trends and 
product mix. The qualitative factor
s include adjustments for credit 
administration and portfolio management, credit policy and 
underwriting and the national 
and local economy. The Bancorp 
considers home price index trends when determining the national 

and local economy qualitative factor. 
The home equity portfolio is managed in two primary groups: 
loans outstanding with a LTV greater than 80% and those loans 

with a LTV 80% or less based upon appraisals at origination. The 

carrying value of the greater than 80% LTV home equity loans and 

80% or less LTV home equity loans were $3.7 billion and $6.3 
billion, respectively, as of Decemb
er 31, 2012. Of the total $10.0 
billion of outstanding home equity loans:  
 82% reside within the Bancorp™s Midwest footprint of 
Ohio, Michigan, Kentucky, Indiana and Illinois;  32% are in first lien positions and 68% are in second lien 
positions at December 31, 2012;  For approximately 1/3 of the home equity portfolio in a 
second lien position, the first lien is either owned or 
serviced by the Bancorp; 
 Over 80% of non-delinquent borrowers made at least one 
payment greater than the minimum payment during the 
year ended December 31, 2012; and 
 The portfolio had an average refreshed
 FICO score of 735 
and 734 at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively.   
 The Bancorp actively manages lines of credit and makes 
reductions in lending limits when it believes it is necessary based on 

FICO score deterioration and property devaluation.  The Bancorp 

does not routinely obtain appraisals on performing loans to update 

LTV ratios after origination.  However, the Bancorp monitors the 

local housing markets by reviewin
g various home price indices and 
incorporates the impact of the changing market conditions in its on-

going credit monitoring processes.  For second lien home equity 
loans, the Bancorp is unable to 
track the performance of the first 
lien loans if it does not service the first lien loan, but instead 

monitors the refreshed FICO scores as part of its assessment of the 

home equity portfolio.   The following table provides an analysis of home equity loan
s outstanding disaggregated based upon refreshed FICO score: 
 TABLE 40: HOME EQUITY LOANS OUTSTANDING BY REFRESHED FICO SCORE
    December 31, 
2012
% of Total  
 December 31, 2011 
% of 
Total 
 ($ in millions) 
   First Liens: 
       FICO < 620 
 $  224 
 2 
%  214 
 2 
%FICO 621-719 
   653 
 6 
  643 
 6 
 FICO > 720  
   2,374 
 24 
  2,466 
 23 
         Total First Liens  
  3,251 
 32 
  3,323 
 31 
 Second Liens: 
      FICO < 620 
   661 
 7 
  750 
 7 
 FICO 621-719 
   1,817 
 18 
 1,929 
 18 
 FICO > 720  
   4,289 
 43 
  4,717 
 44 
        Total Second Liens  
  6,767 
 68 
  7,396 
 69 
 Total  
 $  10,018 
 100 
%  10,719 
 100 
% MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  64  Fifth Third Bancorp 
The Bancorp believes that home equity loans with a greater than 
80% combined LTV ratio present a higher level of risk. The foll
owing table 
provides an analysis of the home equity loans outstanding in
 a first and second lien position by LTV at origination: 
             TABLE 41: HOME EQUITY LOANS OUTSTANDING BY LTV AT ORIGINATION
         2012 
   2011 
     Weighted 
Average LTV 
     Weighted 
Average LTV
 As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
 Outstanding 
    Outstanding 
First Liens: 
           LTV  80% 
$ 2,763 
  54.9 
%  $  2,800
  54.9 
%LTV > 80% 
  488 
  88.9 
    523
  89.2 
    Total First Liens  
  3,251 
  60.2 
    3,323
  60.4 
 Second Liens:
           LTV  80% 
  3,602 
  67.3 
    3,882
 67.3 
 LTV > 80% 
  3,165 
  91.6 
    3,514
 91.8 
     Total Second Liens  
  6,767 
  80.5 
    7,396
 81.0 
 Total  
$ 10,018 
  73.4 
%  $  10,719
 74.0 
% The following tables provide analysis of home equity loans by
 state with LTV greater than 80% as of December 31, 2012 and 2011:
    TABLE 42: HOME EQUITY LOANS OUTSTANDING WITH LTV GREATER THAN 80%
  As of December 31, 2012 ($ in millions) 
     For the Year Ended 
December 31, 2012 
  90 Days 
Net Charge-offs 
By State: 
 Outstanding
Exposure 
Past Due 
Nonaccrual 
Ohio $ 1,254 
 1,927 
 8 
 6 
 24 
Michigan
   795 
 1,108 
 6 
 4 
 24 
Illinois
   428 
 611 
 5 
 3 
 17 
Indiana   348 
 521 
 2 
 2 
 5 
Kentucky   327 
 499 
 2 
 1 
 6 
Florida
   130 
 175 
 2 
 3 
 8 
All other states
   371 
 491 
 4 
 2 
 17 
Total $ 3,653 
 5,332 
 29 
 21 
 101 
 TABLE 43: HOME EQUITY LOANS OUTSTANDING WITH LTV GREATER THAN 80%
  As of December 31, 2011
 ($ in millions)
      For the Year Ended 
December 31, 2011 
    90 Days 
  Net Charge-offs 
By State: 
 Outstanding 
Exposure 
Past Due 
Nonaccrual 
Ohio $ 1,393
 2,083
 12 
 7 
 33 
Michigan 
  884
 1,197
 8 
 4 
 37 
Illinois 
  448
 630
 8 
 2 
 17 
Indiana 
  391
 573
 2 
 2 
 9 
Kentucky 
  366
 549
 3 
 2 
 8 
Florida 
  146
 190
 4 
 3 
 17 
All other states 
  409
 519
 5 
 2 
 19 
Total 
$ 4,037
 5,741
 42 
 22 
 140 
  Automobile Portfolio The automobile portfolio is charac
terized by direct and indirect 
lending products to consumers. As of December 31, 2012, 50% of 
the automobile loan portfolio is co
mprised of new automobiles. It is 
a common practice to advance on automobile loans an amount in 
excess of the automobile value due to the inclusion of taxes, title, 
and other fees paid at closing. The Bancorp monitors its exposure 
to these higher risk loans.  
 The following table provides an analysis of autom
obile loans outstanding by LTV at origination: 
            TABLE 44: AUTOMOBILE LOANS OUTSTANDING WITH LTV AT ORIGINATION
         2012 
   2011 
     Weighted 
Average LTV 
     Weighted 
Average LTV
As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
 Outstanding 
    Outstanding 
 LTV  100% 
$ 8,123 
  81.5 
%  $  7,805 
 81.7 
%LTV > 100% 
  3,849 
  110.8 
    4,022 
 111.5 
 Total  
$ 11,972 
  91.2 
%  $  11,827 
 92.1 
% MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  65  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following tables provide analysis of the Bancorp™s automobile
 loans with a LTV at origination greater than 100% as of Decem
ber 31, 2012 
and 2011, respectively:    TABLE 45: AUTOMOBILE LOANS OUTSTANDING WITH LTV GREATER THAN 100%
As of December 31, 2012 ($ in millions) 
     For the Year Ended 
December 31, 2012 
    90 Days 
  Net Charge-offs 
By State: 
 Outstanding
 Past Due 
Nonaccrual 
Ohio $ 409 
 - 
 - 
 2 
Illinois
   232 
 - 
 - 
 2 
Michigan
   221 
 - 
 - 
 2 
Indiana   158 
 - 
 - 
 1 
Florida
   194 
 - 
 - 
 1 
Kentucky   141 
 - 
 - 
 1 
All other states
   2,494 
 4 
 2 
 15 
Total $ 3,849 
 4 
 2 
 24 
 TABLE 46: AUTOMOBILE LOANS OUTSTANDING WITH LTV GREATER THAN 100%
As of December 31, 2011
 ($ in millions)
      For the Year Ended 
December 31, 2011 
  90 Days 
Net Charge-offs 
By State: 
 Outstanding 
Past Due 
Nonaccrual 
Ohio $ 425 
 1 
 - 
 3 
Illinois 
  291 
 - 
 - 
 3 
Michigan 
  245 
 - 
 - 
 2 
Indiana 
  181 
 - 
 - 
 2 
Florida 
  192 
 - 
 - 
 3 
Kentucky 
  158 
 - 
 - 
 1 
All other states 
  2,530 
 3 
 2 
 20 
Total 
$ 4,022 
 4 
 2 
 34 
  European Exposure  
The Bancorp has no direct sovereign exposure to any European 

nation as of December 31, 2012.  In providing services to our 

customers, the Bancorp routinely en
ters into financial transactions 
with foreign domiciled and U.S. su
bsidiaries of foreign businesses as 
well as foreign financial institutions
.  These financial transactions are 
in the form of loans, loan commit
ments, letters of credit, derivatives 
and securities.  The Bancorp™s risk appetite for foreign country 
exposure is managed by having es
tablished country exposure limits. The Bancorp™s total exposure to European domiciled or owned 
businesses and European financial institutions was $2.6 billion and 
funded exposure was $1.5 billi
on as of December 31, 2012.  
Additionally, the Bancorp was within its established country 

exposure limits for all European countries.  
Certain European countries have been experiencing increased 
levels of stress throughout 2012 
including Greece, Ireland, Italy, 
Portugal and Spain.  The Bancorp™s total exposure to businesses 
domiciled or owned by companies an
d financial institutions in these 
countries was approximately $210 
million and funded exposure was 
$115 million as of December 31, 2012.   
 The following table provides detail about 
the Bancorp™s exposure to all European domi
ciled and owned businesses and financial i
nstitutions as o
fDecember 31, 2012: 
             TABLE 47: EUROPEAN EXPOSURE
          Sovereigns 
  Financial Institutions 
 Non-Financial 
Institutions  
 Total  
  Total 
 Funded  
Total  
Funded  
 Total  
Funded  
 Total  
Funded 
 ($ in millions)  
 Exposure 
Exposure 
Exposure 
Exposure 
 Exposure  
Exposure  
 Exposure
(a)Exposure 
Peripheral Europe
(b) $ - 
 - 26 
 -  184 
 115 
  210 
 115
Other Eurozone
(c)   - 
 - 50 
 46
  1,463 
 846 
  1,513 
 892
      Total Eurozone 
  - 
 - 76 
 46
  1,647 
 961 
  1,723 
 1,007
Other Europe
(d)   - 
 - 62 
 32
  821 
 485 
  883 
 517
       Total Europe 
 $ - 
 - 138 
 78
  2,468 
 1,446 
  2,606 
 1,524
(a) Total exposure includes funded exposure and unf
unded commitments, reported net of collateral.  
(b) Peripheral Europe includes Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain.  
(c) Eurozone includes countries participating in the European common currency (Euro).  
(d) Other Europe includes European countries not part of th
e Euro (primarily the United Kingdom and Switzerland). 
 Analysis of Nonperforming Assets 
Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans and leases for 

which ultimate collectability of the full amount of the principal 

and/or interest is uncertain; restru
ctured commercial and credit card 
loans which have not yet met the requirements to be classified as a 
performing asset; restructured consumer loans which are 90 days 

past due based on the restructured terms unless the loan is both 

well-secured and in the process of collection; and certain other 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  66  Fifth Third Bancorp 
assets, including OREO and other repossessed property. A 
summary of nonperforming assets
 is included in Table 48.  
Residential mortgage loans are typically placed on nonaccrual 
status when principal and intere
st payments have become past due 
150 days unless such loans are both
 well secured and in the process 
of collection. Residential mortga
ge loans may stay on nonaccrual 
status for an extended time as the 
foreclosure process typically lasts 
longer than 180 days. Typically, home equity loans are reported on 

nonaccrual status if principal or interest has been in default for 180 

days or more unless the loan is bo
th well secured and in the process 
of collection. Residential mortgage, home equity, automobile
 and other consumer loans and leases that have been modified in a TDR 
and subsequently become past due 90 days are placed on nonaccrual 
status unless the loan is both we
ll secured and in the process of 
collection. Commercial and credit card loans that have been 

modified in a TDR are classified as nonaccrual unless such loans 

have a sustained repayment performance of six months or greater 

and the Bancorp is reasonably assured of repayment in accordance 

with the restructured terms. Well secured loans are collateralized by 

perfected security interests in real and/or personal property for 
which the Bancorp estimates proceeds from sale would be sufficient 
to recover the outstanding princip
al and accrued interest balance of 
the loan and pay all costs to se
ll the collateral. The Bancorp 
considers a loan in the process of collection if collection efforts or 

legal action is proceeding and the Bancorp expects to collect funds 

sufficient to bring the loan current or recover the entire outstanding 

principal and accrued interest b
alance. When a loan is placed on 
nonaccrual status, the accrual of 
interest, amortization of loan 
premiums, accretion of loan discounts and amortization or accretion of deferred net loan fees or costs are discontinued and previously 

accrued, but unpaid interest is reversed. Commercial loans on 

nonaccrual status are reviewed for im
pairment at least quarterly. If 
the principal or a portion of the principal is deemed a loss, the loss 

amount is charged off to the ALLL.  
Total nonperforming assets, including loans held for sale, were 
$1.3 billion at December 31 2012 compared to $2.0 billion at 
December 31, 2011. At December 31, 2012, $29 million of 
nonaccrual loans, consisting primarily
 of real estate secured loans, 
were held for sale, compared to $138 million at December 31, 2011.  
Nonperforming assets as a percentage of total loans, leases and 
other assets, including OREO and nonaccrual loans held for sale as 

of December 31, 2012 were 1.48%, compared to 2.32% as of 

December 31, 2011. Excluding nonaccrual loans held for sale, 

nonperforming assets as a percentage of portfolio loans, leases and 
other assets, including OREO was 1.49% as of December 31, 2012, 
compared to 2.23% as of December 31, 2011. The composition of 

nonaccrual loans and leases continues to be concentrated in real 

estate as 67% of nonaccrual loans an
d leases were secured by real 
estate as of December 31, 2012 compared to 69% as of December 

31, 2011.  Commercial nonperforming loans and leases were $726 million 
at December 31, 2012, a decrease of $470 million from December 
31, 2011. Excluding commercial nonperforming loans and leases 
held for sale, commercial nonperforming loans and leases at 

December 2012 decreased $361 million compared to December 31, 

2011. The decrease from December 31, 2011 was due to a 

continued decrease in new nonaccruals and an increase in paydowns 

and payoffs in 2012 due to improv
ed delinquency metrics and an 
improvement in underlying loss trends.  
Consumer nonperforming loans an
d leases were $332 million 
at December 31, 2012, a decrease of $48 million from December 31, 
2011. The decrease is due to the continued moderation in general 

economic conditions in 2012. Home equity nonaccrual levels remain 

modest as the Bancorp continues to fully charge-off a high 

proportion of the severely delinquent
 loans at 180 days past due. 
Geography continues to be a large 
driver of nonaccrual activity as 
Florida properties represent approximately 14% and 8% of 

residential mortgage and home equi
ty balances, respectively, but 
represent 47% and 19% of nonaccrual loans for each category. 
Refer to Table 49 for a rollforward of the nonperforming loans and 
leases. Consumer restructured loans on accrual status totaled $1.7 
billion and $1.6 billion at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 

As of December 31, 2012, the percenta
ge of restructured residential 
mortgage loans, home equity loans 
and credit card loans that are 
past due 30 days or more are 25%, 13% and 14%, respectively. 
OREO and other repossessed property was $257 million at 
December 31, 2012, compared to 
$378 million at December 31, 
2011. The decrease from December 31, 2011 was primarily due to a 

decrease in new OREO properties reflecting the changes made to 

the Bancorp™s underwriting of real estate loans in prior periods as 

well as improvements in general ec
onomic conditions during 2011 
and 2012. The Bancorp recognized 
$74 million and $171 million in 
losses on the sale or write-down
 of OREO properties in 2012 and 
2011, respectively. These losses are primarily reflective of the 
continued stress in the Michigan and Florida markets for 
commercial real estate and resident
ial mortgage loans as Michigan 
and Florida represented 14% and 17%, respectively, of total OREO 

losses in 2012 compared with 16% and 26%, respectively, in 2011. 

Properties in Michigan and Florida accounted for 38% of OREO at 

December 31, 2012, compared to 42% at December 31, 2011.  
In 2012 and 2011, approximately $102 million and $125 
million, respectively, of interest income would have been recorded if 
the nonaccrual and renegotiated loans and leases on nonaccrual 
status had been current in acco
rdance with their original terms. 
Although these values help demonstrate the costs of carrying 

nonaccrual credits, the Bancorp does not expect to recover the full 

amount of interest as nonaccrual loans and leases are generally 

carried below their principal balance. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  67  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 48: SUMMARY OF NONPERFORMING ASSETS AND DELINQUENT LOANS
          As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
 2012 
  2011  
2010  
 2009  
2008  
Nonaccrual loans and leases: 
                Commercial and industrial loans
 $234 
  408 
   473 
   734 
   541 
  Commercial mortgage loans 
 215 
  358 
   407 
   898 
   482 
  Commercial construction loans 
 70 
  123 
   182 
   646 
   362 
  Commercial leases 
 1   9    11 
   67 
   21 
  Residential mortgage loans 
 114   134 
   152 
   275 
   259 
  Home equity  
 30 
  25 
   23 
   21 
   26 
  Automobile loans  
  - 
   - 
   1 
   1 
   5 
  Other consumer loans and leases 
  1 
   1 
   84 
   - 
 - 
Restructured loans and leases: 
                Commercial and industrial loans 
  96 
  79 
   95 
   35 
   - 
  Commercial mortgage loans 
 67 
  63 
   28 
   4 
   - 
  Commercial construction loans 
 6   15 
   10 
   8 
   - 
  Commercial leases 
 8   3    8 
   - 
   - 
  Residential mortgage loans
(a)  123   141 
   116 
   137 
   20 
  Home equity(a)  23 
  29 
   33 
   33 
   29 
  Automobile loans
(a)
  2   2    2 
   1 
   1 
  Credit card 
 39 
  48 
   55 
   87 
   30 
 Total nonperforming loans and leases
(e)  1,029 
  1,438 
   1,680 
   2,947 
   1,776 
 OREO and other repossessed property
(d)  257 
  378 
   494 
   297 
   230 
 Total nonperforming assets 
 1,286 
  1,816 
   2,174 
   3,244 
   2,006 
 Nonaccrual loans held for sale 
 29 
  138 
   294 
   224 
   473 
 Total nonperforming assets including loans held for sale 
$1,315   1,954 
   2,468 
   3,468 
   2,479 
 Loans and leases 90 days past due and accruing: 
                Commercial and industrial loans
 $ 1 
   4 
   16 
   118 
   76 
  Commercial mortgage loans 
  22 
   3 
   11 
   59 
   136 
  Commercial construction loans 
  1 
   1 
   3 
   17 
   74 
  Commercial leases 
  - 
   - 
   - 
   4 
   4 
  Residential mortgage loans
(c)   75 
   79 
   100 
   189 
   198 
  Home equity 
  58 
   74 
   89 
   99 
   96 
  Automobile loans 
  8 
   9 
   13 
   17 
   21 
  Credit card and other 
  30 
   30 
   42 
   64 
   56 
  Other consumer loans and leases 
  - 
   - 
   - 
   - 
   1 
 Total loans and leases 90 days past due and accruing
(f) $195   200 
   274 
   567 
   662 
 Nonperforming assets as a percent 
of portfolio loans, leases and  
                  other  assets, including OREO
(b)  1.49 % 2.23 
  2.79 
  4.22 
  2.38 
 Allowance for loan and lease 
losses as a percent of  
                  nonperforming assets
(a)(b)  144   124 
  138 
  116 
  139 
 (a) During 2009, the Bancorp modified its cons
umer nonaccrual policy to exclude TDR loan
s that were less than 90 days past due beca
use they were performing in accor
dance with the restructured terms. 
For comparability purposes, prior periods were
 adjusted to reflect this reclassification.
 (b) Excludes nonaccrual loans held for sale.
 (c) Information for all periods presented excludes 
advances made pursuant to servicing agreements to GNMA mortgage loan pools whose
 repayments are insured by the Federal Housing Administration 
or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs. As of 
December 31, 2012
, 2011, 2010, 2009, and 
2008 these advances were 
$414
, $309, $279, $130 and $40 respectively. The 
Bancorp recognized credit losses of
 $2 million for the year ended 
December 31, 2012
 and immaterial credit losses for 2011 due to claim denial
s and curtailments associated with these advances.  
(d) Excludes $72
, $64, $38, $15 and $23 of OREO rela
ted to government insured loans at 
December 31, 2012
, 2011, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.  
(e) Includes $10
, $17, $24, $32, and $29 of no
naccrual government insured commercial loans who
se repayments are insured by the Small Business A
dministration at 
December 31, 2012
, 2011, 
2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively, and 
$1 
and $2 of restructured nonaccrual government insured commercial loans at 
December 31, 2012
 and 2011, respectively and zero for 2010, 2009 and 
2008.
 (f) Includes an immaterial amount of government insured commercial 
loans 90 days past due and accruing whose repayments are insured
 by the Small Business Administration at December 31, 2012, 
2011, 2010, 2009, and 2008. 
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  68  Fifth Third Bancorp 
The following table provides a rollforward of portfolio
 nonperforming loans and leases, by portfolio segment: 
           TABLE 49: ROLLFORWARD OF PORTFOLIO NONPERFORMING LOANS AND LEASES
          Residential    For the year ended December 31, 2012 ($ in millions)
 Commercial 
Mortgage 
Consumer  
Total  
Beginning Balance  
$ 1,058 
 275 
  105 
  1,438 
  Transfers to nonperforming 
  560 
 318 
  354 
  1,232 
  Transfers to performing 
  (22)
 (45)
  (73)
  (140)
  Transfers to performing (restructured) 
  (31)
 (57)
  (90)
  (178)
  Transfers to held for sale 
  (13)
 - 
  - 
  (13)
  Loans sold from portfolio 
  (36)
 (4)
  - 
  (40)
  Loan paydowns/payoffs 
  (466)
 (121)
  (12)
  (599)
  Transfers to other real estate owned 
  (108)
 (71)
  - 
  (179)
  Charge-offs 
  (297)
 (58)
  (194)
  (549)
  Draws/other extensions of credit 
  52 
 - 
  5 
  57 
 Ending Balance 
 $ 697 
 237 
  95 
  1,029 
     For the year ended December 31
, 2011 ($ in millions) 
       Beginning Balance  
$ 1,214 
 268 
  198 
  1,680 
  Transfers to nonperforming 
  1,075 
 396 
  456 
  1,927 
  Transfers to performing 
  (23)
 (45)
  (85)
  (153)
  Transfers to performing (restructured) 
  (1)
 (74)
  (95)
  (170)
  Transfers from held for sale  
  4 
 - 
  - 
  4 
  Transfers to held for sale 
  (92)
 - 
  - 
  (92)
  Loans sold from portfolio 
  (57)
 (1)
  (21)
  (79)
  Loan paydowns/payoffs 
  (425)
 (85)
  (13)
  (523)
  Transfers to other real estate owned 
  (110)
 (79)
  - 
  (189)
  Charge-offs 
  (554)
 (106)
  (342)
  (1,002)
  Draws/other extensions of credit 
  27 
 1 
  7 
  35 
 Ending Balance  
$ 1,058 
 275 
  105 
  1,438 
           Troubled Debt Restructurings
 If a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty, the Bancorp may 

consider, in certain circumstances, modifying the terms of their loan 
to maximize collection of amounts due. Typically, these 
modifications reduce the loan interest
 rate, extend the loan term, or 
in limited circumstances, reduce the principal balance of the loan. 

These modifications are classified as TDRs. 
At the time of modification, the Bancorp maintains certain 
consumer loan TDRs (including residential mortgage loans, home 

equity loans, and other consumer loans) on accrual status, provided 

there is reasonable assurance of repayment and performance 
according to the modified terms based upon a current, well-
documented credit evaluation. Co
mmercial loans modified as part 
of a TDR are maintained on accrual status provided there is a 

sustained payment history of six months or greater prior to the 

modification in accordance with
 the modified terms and all 
remaining contractual payments under the modified terms are 

reasonably assured of collection. TDRs of commercial loans and 

credit card loans that do not have a sustained payment history of six 
months or greater in accordance with the modified terms remain on 
nonaccrual status until a six-mont
h payment history is sustained.  
During the third quarter of 2012, the OCC, a national bank 
regulatory agency, issued interpretive guidance that requires Chapter 
7 non-reaffirmed loans to be accounted for as nonperforming 

TDRs and collateral dependent loan
s regardless of their payment 
history and capacity to pay in 
the future. The Bancorp™s banking 
subsidiary is a state chartered bank
 and therefore is not subject to 
guidance of the OCC, however, the Bancorp is closely following 

these developments and is in co
mmunication with its regulators to 
evaluate their position on this new guidance. At December 31, 2012, 
the Bancorp had loans with unp
aid principal balances totaling 
approximately $175 million that could potentially be impacted by 

this guidance, of which approximately 87% are current with their 

original contractual payments and approximately one third of which 

are already classified as TDRs. This guidance, if fully adopted by the 

Bancorp™s regulators, would result
 in additional charge-offs of 
approximately $70 million as well as additional TDRs and possible 

increases to nonperforming assets.  
 The following table summarizes TDRs by
 loan type and delinquency status: 
             TABLE 50: PERFORMING AND NONPERFORMING TDRs
             Performing
         30-89 Days 
 90 Days or 
   As of December 31, 2012
 ($ in millions) 
 Current
 Past Due 
More Past Due 
Nonaccrual 
Total  
Commercial 
$  431 
  -  - 
 177 
 $ 608
 Residential mortgages
(a)   1,006 
 70  99 
 123 
   1,298
 Home equity 
  377 
 35  - 
 23 
   435
 Credit card 
  35 
  -  - 
 39 
   74
 Automobile and other consumer loans and leases 
  31 
 2  - 
 2    35
 Total 
$  1,880 
 107
  99 
 364 
 $ 2,450
 (a) Information includes advances made pursuant to servicing agreemen
ts for GNMA mortgage pools whose repayments are insured by the
 Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the 
Department of Veterans Affairs. As of December 31, 2012, these 
advances represented $107 of current
 loans, $26 of 30-89 days pa
st due loans and $79 of 90 days or more past due loans.  
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  69  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  Analysis of Net Loan Charge-offs 
Net charge-offs were 85 bps and 149 
bps of average portfolio loans 
and leases for the years 
ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, 
respectively. Table 51 provides a 
summary of credit loss experience 
and net charge-offs as a percentage
 of average portfolio loans and 
leases outstanding by loan category. The ratio of commercial loan and lease net charge-offs to 
average portfolio commercial loans and leases decreased to 63 bps 

during 2012 compared to 126 bps in 2011, as a result of decreases in 

net charge-offs of $257 million couple
d with an increase in average 
portfolio commercial loan and le
ase balances of $3.0 billion. 
Decreases in net charge-offs were realized across all commercial 
loan types, excluding commercial le
ases, and were primarily due to 
improvements in general economic conditions and previous actions 

taken by the Bancorp to address problem loans. Among several 

actions taken by the Bancorp were suspending homebuilder and 

developer lending in 2007 and non-owner occupied commercial real 

estate lending in 2008 and tightened underwriting standards across 

all commercial loan product offerings. The Bancorp resumed 

homebuilder and developer le
nding and non-owner occupied commercial real estate lending in the third quarter of 2011. Net 
charge-offs for 2012 related to non-owner occupied commercial real 

estate were $87 million compared to $211 million in 2011. Net 

charge-offs related to non-owner occupied commercial real estate 

are recorded in the commercial mortgage loans and commercial 

construction loans captions in Table 51. Net charge-offs on these 

loans represented 29% of tot
al commercial loan and lease net 
charge-offs in 2012 and 38% in 2011.  
The ratio of consumer loan 
and lease net charge-offs to 
average consumer loans and leases
 decreased to 113 bps in 2012 
compared to 179 bps in 2011. Resi
dential mortgage loan net charge-
offs, which typically involve partial charge-offs based upon 

appraised values of underlying collateral, decreased $51 million from 
the prior year as a result of improvements in delinquencies and a 
decrease in the average loss recorded per charge-off. The Bancorp™s 

combined Florida and Michigan markets accounted for 66% and 

58% of net charge-offs on residential mortgage loans in the 
portfolio in 2012 and 2011, respectiv
ely. Fifth Third expects the 
composition of the residential mortgage portfolio to improve as it 

continues to retain high quality, shorter duration residential 

mortgage loans that are originated
 through its branch network as a 
low-cost, refinance product of 
conforming residential mortgage 
loans.  Home equity net charge-offs decreased $63 million compared 
to the prior year, primarily due to decreases in net charge-offs in the 
Michigan market. In addition, mana
gement actively manages lines of 
credit and makes reductions in lending limits when it believes it is 

necessary based on FICO score deterioration or property 

devaluation.  
Automobile loan net charge
-offs decreased $22 million 
compared to 2011, due to the origin
ation of high credit quality loans 
as a result of tighter underwriting standards and higher resale on 

automobiles sold at auction. Credit card net charge-offs decreased $24 million from 2011 
reflecting improving delinquency trends, aggressive line 

management, and stabilization 
in unemployment levels. The 
Bancorp utilizes a risk-adjusted pricing methodology to ensure 

adequate compensation is received for those products that have 

higher credit costs. 
Other consumer loan net char
ge-offs decreased $51 million 
compared to 2011 due to charge-offs
 of $56 million recognized in 
2011 associated with certain cons
umer loans that were acquired 
during the fourth quarter of 2010 when the Bancorp foreclosed on a 

commercial loan that was collater
alized by individual consumer 
loans.  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  70  Fifth Third Bancorp 
TABLE 51: SUMMARY OF CREDIT LOSS EXPERIENCE
       For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
 2012  
2011 
 2010  
2009  
2008  
Losses charged off: 
            Commercial and industrial loans  
$(194) (314)
 (631)
 (768)
 (667)
  Commercial mortgage loans 
 (120) (211)
 (541)
 (436)
 (618)
  Commercial construction loans 
 (34) (89)
 (265)
 (420)
 (750)
  Commercial leases 
 (10) (1)
 (7)
  (11)
  - 
  Residential mortgage loans 
 (129) (180)
 (441)
 (359)
 (243)
  Home equity  
 (172) (234)
 (276)
 (330)
 (212)
  Automobile loans  
 (55) (85)
 (132)
 (189)
 (168)
  Credit card 
 (90) (114)
 (164)
 (178)
 (101)
  Other consumer loans and leases 
 (33) (86)
 (28)
 (28)
 (32)
 Total losses 
 (837) (1,314)
 (2,485)
 (2,719)
 (2,791)
 Recoveries of losses previously charged off: 
            Commercial and industrial loans  
 29 
 38 
 45 
 50 
 18 
  Commercial mortgage loans 
 21  16 
 17 
 14 
 5   Commercial construction loans 
 9  4  13 
 4  2   Commercial leases 
 2   3 
  5 
 4  1   Residential mortgage loans 
 7  7  2  2   - 
  Home equity  
 15  14 
 12 
 8  7   Automobile loans  
 24 
 32 
 44 
 41 
 34 
  Credit card 
 16  16 
 9  8  7   Other consumer loans and leases 
 10  12 
 10 
 7  7  Total recoveries 
 133  142 
 157 
 138 
 81 
 Net losses charged off: 
            Commercial and industrial loans  
 (165) (276)
 (586)
 (718)
 (649)
  Commercial mortgage loans 
 (99) (195)
 (524)
 (422)
 (613)
  Commercial construction loans 
 (25) (85)
 (252)
 (416)
 (748)
  Commercial leases 
 (8) 2  (2)
 (7)
 1   Residential mortgage loans 
 (122) (173)
 (439)
 (357)
 (243)
  Home equity  
 (157) (220)
 (264)
 (322)
 (205)
  Automobile loans  
 (31) (53)
 (88)
 (148)
 (134)
  Credit card 
 (74) (98)
 (155)
 (170)
 (94)
  Other consumer loans and leases 
 (23) (74)
 (18)
 (21)
 (25)
 Total net losses charged off 
$(704) (1,172)
 (2,328)
 (2,581)
 (2,710)
 Net charge-offs as a percent of average loan
s and leases (excluding held for sale): 
            Commercial and industrial loans  
 0.50 
%0.97 
 2.23 
 2.61 
 2.31 
  Commercial mortgage loans 
 1.02  1.89 
 4.58 
 3.43 
 4.80 
  Commercial construction loans 
 3.08 
 4.96 
 8.48 
 9.24 
 12.80 
  Commercial leases 
  0.22 
  (0.08)
  0.05 
  0.22 
  (0.02)
 Total commercial loans 
  0.63 
 1.26 
 3.10 
 3.27 
 3.99 
  Residential mortgage loans 
 1.07  1.75 
 5.49 
 4.15 
 2.47 
  Home equity  
 1.51  1.97 
 2.20 
 2.57 
 1.67 
  Automobile loans  
 0.26 
 0.47 
 0.85 
 1.68 
 1.56 
  Credit card 
 3.79 
 5.19 
 8.28 
 8.87 
 5.51 
  Other consumer loans and leases 
 7.02 
 15.29 
 2.58 
 2.14 
 2.10 
 Total consumer loans and leases 
 1.13  1.79 
 2.92 
 3.10 
 2.08 
 Total net losses charged off 
  0.85 
% 1.49 
  3.02 
  3.20 
  3.23 
     Allowance for Credit Losses 
The allowance for credit losses is
 comprised of the ALLL and the 
reserve for unfunded commitments
. The ALLL provides coverage 
for probable and estimable losses in the loan and lease portfolio. 

The Bancorp evaluates the ALLL each quarter to determine its 

adequacy to cover inherent losses. Several factors are taken into 

consideration in the determinati
on of the overall ALLL, including 
an unallocated component. These factors include, but are not 
limited to, the overall risk profile 
of the loan and lease portfolios, 
net charge-off experience, the extent
 of impaired loans and leases, 
the level of nonaccrual loans and leases, the level of 90 days past 

due loans and leases and the over
all percentage level of the ALLL. 
The Bancorp also considers overall asset quality trends, credit 

administration and portfolio 
management practices, risk 
identification practices, credit po
licy and underwriting practices, 
overall portfolio growth, portfolio concentrations and current 
national and local economic conditions that might impact the 
portfolio. See the Critical Accounting Policies section for more 

information. In 2012, the Bancorp did not substantively change any material 
aspect of its overall approach in the determination of the ALLL and 

there have been no material changes in assumptions or estimation 

techniques as compared to prior periods that impacted the 

determination of the current period allowance. In addition to the 
ALLL, the Bancorp maintains a reserve for unfunded commitments 
recorded in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The 

methodology used to determine the adequacy of this reserve is 

similar to the Bancorp™s methodo
logy for determining the ALLL. 
The provision for unfunded commitments is included in other 

noninterest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
The ALLL attributable to the portion of the residential 
mortgage and consumer loan and lease portfolio that has not been 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  71  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 restructured is determined on a 
pooled basis with the segmentation 
being based on the similarity of credit risk characteristics. Loss 

factors for real estate backed consumer loans are developed for each 

pool based on the trailing twelve month historical loss rate, as 
adjusted for certain prescriptive loss rate factors and certain 
qualitative adjustment factors. The prescriptive loss rate factors and 

qualitative adjustments are designed to reflect risks associated with 

current conditions and trends which are not believed to be fully 

reflected in the trailing twelve month historical loss rate. For real 

estate backed consumer loans, the prescriptive loss rate factors 

include adjustments for delinquency trends, LTV trends, refreshed 

FICO score trends and product mi
x, and the qualitative factors 
include adjustments for credit administration and portfolio 
management practices, credit policy and underwriting practices and 

the national and local economy. The Bancorp considers home price 

index trends in its footprint when
 determining the national and local 
economy qualitative factor. The Bancorp also considers the volatility 

of collateral valuation trends wh
en determining the unallocated 
component of the ALLL. 
The Bancorp™s determination of the ALLL for commercial 
loans is sensitive to the risk grades
 it assigns to these loans. In the 
event that 10% of commercial loans in each risk category would 

experience a downgrade of one ri
sk category, the allowance for 
commercial loans would increase by approximately $154 million at 
December 31, 2012. In addition, the Bancorp™s determination of the 

allowance for residential and consumer
 loans is sensitive to changes 
in estimated loss rates. In the ev
ent that estimated loss rates would 
increase by 10%, the allowance for residential and consumer loans 

would increase by approximately $51 million at December 31, 2012. 

As several qualitative and quantitative factors are considered in 

determining the ALLL, these sensitiv
ity analyses do not necessarily 
reflect the nature and extent of 
future changes in the ALLL. They 
are intended to provide insights in
to the impact of adverse changes 
to risk grades and estimated loss rates and do not imply any 

expectation of future deterioration in
 the risk ratings or loss rates. 
Given current processes employed by the Bancorp, management 

believes the risk grades and estimated loss rates currently assigned 

are appropriate. 
 TABLE 52: CHANGES IN ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
           For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
 2012 
 2011 
 2010  
2009  
2008  
ALLL:  Balance, beginning of period 
$ 2,255 
 3,004 
 3,749 
 2,787 
 937 
 Impact of change in accounting principle 
  - 
 - 
 45 
 - 
 - 
 Losses charged off 
  (837)
 (1,314)
 (2,485)
 (2,719)
 (2,791)
 Recoveries of losses previously charged off 
  133 
 142 
 157 
 138 
 81 
 Provision for loan and lease losses 
  303 
 423 
 1,538 
 3,543 
 4,560 
Balance, end of period 
$ 1,854 
 2,255 
 3,004 
 3,749 
 2,787 
    Reserve for unfunded commitments: 
       Balance, beginning of period 
$ 181 
 227 
 294 
 195 
 95 
 Impact of change in accounting principle 
  - 
 - 
 (43)
 - 
 - 
 Provision for unfunded commitments 
  (2)
 (46)
 (24)
 99 
 100 
Balance, end of period 
$ 179 
 181 
 227 
 294 
 195 
  Certain inherent, but unconfirmed losses are probable within the 
loan and lease portfolio. The Bancorp™s current methodology for 

determining the level of losses is based on historical loss rates, 

current credit grades, specific allocation on impaired commercial 

credits above specified threshol
ds and restructured residential 
mortgage and consumer loans and other qualitative adjustments. 

Due to the heavy reliance on realized historical losses and the credit 

grade rating process, the model-de
rived estimate of ALLL tends to 
slightly lag behind the deterioration in the portfolio, in a stable or 
deteriorating credit environment, and tend not to be as responsive 

when improved conditions have presented themselves. Given these 

model limitations, the qualitative adjustment factors may be 

incremental or decremental to the 
quantitative model results.  
An unallocated component to the ALLL is maintained to 
recognize the imprecision in esti
mating and measuring loss. The 
unallocated allowance as a percent of
 total portfolio loans and leases 
at December 31, 2012 and 2011 was 0.13% and 0.17%, respectively. 

The unallocated allowance was six percent of the total allowance as 

of December 31, 2012 and 2011.  
As shown in Table 53, the ALLL as a percent of portfolio loan 
and leases was 2.16% at December 31, 2012, compared to 2.78% at 
December 31, 2011. The ALLL was $1.9 billion as of December 31, 
2012, compared to $2.3 billion at December 31, 2011. The decrease 

is reflective of a number of factors including decreases in 

nonperforming loans and leases, improved delinquency metrics in 

commercial and consumer loans an
d leases and improvement in 
underlying loss trends.  
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  72  Fifth Third Bancorp 
TABLE 53: ATTRIBUTION OF ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN 
AND LEASE LOSSES TO PORTFOLIO LOANS AND LEASES
As of December 31 ($ in millions)
  2012  
2011 
 2010  
2009  
2008  
Allowance attributed to: 
            Commercial and industrial loans  
$ 802 
  929 
 1,123 
 1,282 
 824 
  Commercial mortgage loans 
  333 
  441 
 597 
 734 
 363 
  Commercial construction loans 
  33 
  77 
 158 
 380 
 252 
  Commercial leases 
  68 
  80 
 111 
 121 
 61 
  Residential mortgage loans 
  229 
  227 
 310 
 375 
 388 
  Home equity  
  143 
  195 
  265 
  294 
  289 
  Automobile loans  
  28 
  43 
  73 
  127 
  150 
  Credit card 
  87 
  106 
  158 
  199 
  148 
  Other consumer loans and leases 
  20 
  21 
  59 
  44 
  33 
  Unallocated 
  111 
  136 
 150 
 193 
 279 
 Total ALLL 
$ 1,854 
  2,255 
 3,004 
 3,749 
 2,787 
 Portfolio loans and leases: 
            Commercial and industrial loans  
$ 36,038 
  30,783 
  27,191 
  25,683 
  29,197 
  Commercial mortgage loans 
  9,103 
  10,138 
  10,845 
  11,803 
  12,502 
  Commercial construction loans 
  698 
  1,020 
  2,048 
  3,784 
  5,114 
  Commercial leases 
  3,549 
  3,531 
  3,378 
  3,535 
  3,666 
  Residential mortgage loans 
  12,017 
  10,672 
  8,956 
  8,035 
  9,385 
  Home equity  
  10,018 
  10,719 
  11,513 
  12,174 
  12,752 
  Automobile loans  
  11,972 
  11,827 
  10,983 
  8,995 
  8,594 
  Credit card 
  2,097 
  1,978 
  1,896 
  1,990 
  1,811 
  Other consumer loans and leases 
  290 
  350 
  681 
  780 
  1,122 
 Total portfolio loans and leases 
$ 85,782 
  81,018 
  77,491 
  76,779 
  84,143 
 Attributed allowance as a 
percent of respective portfolio loans and leases: 
            Commercial and industrial loans  
  2.23 
% 3.02 
  4.13 
  4.99 
  2.82 
  Commercial mortgage loans 
  3.66 
  4.35 
  5.50 
  6.22 
  2.90 
  Commercial construction loans 
  4.73 
  7.55 
  7.71 
  10.04 
  4.93 
  Commercial leases 
  1.92 
  2.27 
  3.29 
  3.42 
  1.66 
  Residential mortgage loans 
  1.91 
  2.13 
  3.46 
  4.67 
  4.13 
  Home equity  
  1.43 
  1.82 
  2.30 
  2.41 
  2.27 
  Automobile loans  
  0.23 
  0.36 
  0.66 
  1.41 
  1.75 
  Credit card 
  4.15 
  5.36 
  8.33 
  10.00 
  8.17 
  Other consumer loans and leases 
  6.90 
  6.00 
  8.66 
  5.64 
  2.94 
  Unallocated (as a percent of to
tal portfolio loans and leases) 
  0.13 
  0.17 
  0.19 
  0.25 
  0.33 
 Total portfolio loans and leases 
  2.16 
% 2.78 
  3.88 
  4.88 
  3.31 
     MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT 
Market risk arises from the potential for market fluctuations in 

interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices that may 

result in potential reductions in net income. Interest rate risk, a 

component of market risk, is the exposure to adverse changes in net 

interest income or financial position due to changes in interest rates. 
Management considers interest rate risk a prominent market risk in 
terms of its potential impact on earnin
gs. Interest rate
 risk can occur 
for any one or more of the following reasons: 
  Assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different times;  Short-term and long-term market interest rates may change 
by different amounts; or  
 The expected maturity of various assets or liabilities may 
shorten or lengthen as interest rates change. 
 In addition to the direct impact of interest rate changes on net 
interest income, interest rates can 
indirectly impact earnings through 
their effect on loan demand, credit losses, mortgage originations, the 

value of servicing rights and other sources of the Bancorp™s 

earnings. Stability of the Bancorp™s net income is largely dependent 

upon the effective management of 
interest rate risk. Management 
continually reviews the Bancorp™
s balance sheet composition and 
earnings flows and models the intere
st rate risk, and possible actions 
to reduce this risk, given numerous
 possible future interest rate 
scenarios.  Net Interest Income Simulation Model
 The Bancorp utilizes a variety of measurement techniques to 

identify and manage its interest rate risk, including the use of an NII 

simulation model to analyze the sensitivity of net interest income to 

changing interest rates. The model is based on contractual and 

assumed cash flows and repricing characteristics for all of the 
Bancorp™s financial instruments and incorporates market-based 
assumptions regarding the effect of
 changing interest rates on the 
prepayment rates of certain asse
ts and liabilities. The model also 
includes senior management™s project
ions of the future volume and 
pricing of each of the product lines offered by the Bancorp as well 

as other pertinent assumptions. Actual results may differ from these 

simulated results due to timing, ma
gnitude and frequency of interest 
rate changes as well as changes in market conditions and 
management strategies. The Bancorp™s Executive ALCO, which includes senior 
management representatives and is accountable to the ERM 

Committee, monitors and manages interest rate risk within Board 

approved policy limits. In addition 
to the risk management activities 
of ALCO, the Bancorp has a Mark
et Risk Management function as 
part of ERM that provides independent oversight of market risk 

activities. In 2012, the NII and EVE ALCO policy limits were 
lowered to reflect the Bancorp™s current risk appetite and due to 
significant uncertainty with resp
ect to the economic environment, 
market interest rates and balance sheet and deposit pricing 

behaviors.  The policy limits were updated in conjunction with the 

Market Risk Management group 
and were approved by ALCO. 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  73  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The Bancorp™s interest rate risk
 exposure is currently evaluated 
by measuring the anticipated change in net interest income over 12-

month and 24-month horizons assuming a 100 bps and 200 bps 

parallel ramped increase in intere
st rates. The Fed Funds interest 
rate, targeted by the Federal Reserve at a range of 0% to 0.25%, is 
currently set at a level that would be negative in parallel ramped 
decrease scenarios; therefore, thos
e scenarios were omitted from the 
interest rate risk analyses at December 31, 2012. In accordance with 

the current policy, the rate movements are assumed to occur over 
one year and are sustained thereafter.  
 The following table shows the Bancorp™s estimated net interest 
income sensitivity profile and ALCO policy limits as of December
 31:                 TABLE 54: ESTIMATED NII SENSITIVITY PROFILE
               2012  
2011 
   Percent Change in NII 
(FTE)  ALCO Policy Limits 
Percent Change in NII 
(FTE)  ALCO Policy Limits 
      12 Months
 13 to 24 
Months 
 12 Months
13 to 24 
Months 
12 Months 
 13 to 24 
Months 
 12 Months
13 to 24 
Months 
Change in Interest Rates (bps) 
    +200  
1.78  %7.75  
(4.00) (6.00) 
0.35  
% 5.61  
 (5.00)
 (7.00) 
+100  
0.90 
  3.78  
 - 
  -  
 -  
 2.64  
  -  
 -  
                    At December 31, 2012, the Bancorp™s interest rate risk profile 
reflects moderate asset sensitivity in year one in contrast to a 

relatively neutral profile at December 31, 2011 with year two asset 

sensitivity increases from year one at both December 31, 2012 and 
2011. The higher asset sensitivity at December 31, 2012 compared 
to December 31, 2011 is the result of growth in core deposit 

balances and lower market interest rates, partially offset by increases 

in fixed rate loan balances. 
 Economic Value of Equity
 The Bancorp also utilizes EVE as 
a measurement tool in managing 
interest rate risk. Whereas the 
NII simulation model highlights 
exposures over a relatively short time horizon, the EVE analysis 
incorporates all cash flows over 
the estimated remaining life of all 
balance sheet and derivative positions. The EVE of the balance 

sheet, at a point in time, is defined as the discounted present value 

of asset and net derivative cash flows less the discounted value of 
liability cash flows. The sensitivity 
of EVE to changes in the level of 
interest rates is a measure of longer-term interest rate risk. EVE 

values only the current balance sheet and does not incorporate the 

growth assumptions used in the N
II simulation model. As with the 
NII simulation model, assumptions 
about the timing and variability 
of existing balance sheet cash flows are critical in the EVE analysis. 

Particularly important are assump
tions driving loan and security 
prepayments and the expected balance attrition and pricing of 
transaction deposit portfolios.  
 The following table shows the Bancorp™s EVE sensitivity profile as of December 31:
         TABLE 55: ESTIMATED EVE SENSITIVITY PROFILE
          2012  
2011 
 Change in Interest Rates (bps) 
Change in EVE
 ALCO Policy Limit
Change in EVE 
 ALCO Policy Limit
+200  
2.16%(12.00)1.37 
%(15.00)
+100  
1.50   1.22 
  +25  
0.43
   0.32 
  -25  
(0.52)   (0.25)
    The EVE at risk profile suggests a positive impact from market rate 
increases of +25 bps through the +200 bps scenarios for 2012.  The 
EVE at risk reported at December 31, 2012 for the +200 basis 
points scenario shows a change to a slightly more asset sensitive 

position compared to December 31,
 2011. The primary factors 
contributing to the change are the decline in market interest rates 

over this time period, growth in core deposits and changes in the 

MSR risk profile, partially offset by the impact of an increase in 

fixed rate loan balances. While an instantaneous shift in in
terest rates is used in this 
analysis to provide an estimate of exposure, the Bancorp believes 
that a gradual shift in interest rates would have a much more modest 

impact. Since EVE measures the discounted present value of cash 
flows over the estimated lives of instruments, the change in EVE 

does not directly correlate to the degree that earnings would be 

impacted over a shorter time horizon (e.g., the current fiscal year). 

Further, EVE does not take into account factors such as future 

balance sheet growth, changes in 
product mix, changes in yield 
curve relationships and changing product spreads that could 
mitigate or exacerbate the impact of changes in interest rates. The 

NII simulations and EVE analyses do not necessarily include certain 
actions that management may undertake to manage risk in response 
to anticipated changes in interest rates. 
The Bancorp regularly evaluates its exposures to LIBOR and 
Prime basis risks, nonparallel shifts
 in the yield curve and embedded 
options risk. In addition, the 
impact on NII and EVE of extreme 
changes in interest rates is modeled, wherein the Bancorp employs 

the use of yield curve shocks and environment-specific scenarios. 
 Use of Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate Risk 
An integral component of the Bancorp™s interest rate risk 

management strategy is its use of de
rivative instruments to minimize 
significant fluctuations in earnings caused by changes in market 
interest rates. Examples of deriva
tive instruments that the Bancorp 
may use as part of its interest rate risk management strategy include 

interest rate swaps, interest rate floors, interest rate caps, forward 

contracts, options, swapti
ons and TBA securities.  
 As part of its overall risk management strategy relative to its 
mortgage banking activity, the Bancorp enters into forward 

contracts accounted for as free-st
anding derivatives to economically 
hedge interest rate lock commitments that are also considered free-
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  74  Fifth Third Bancorp 
standing derivatives. Additionally,
 the Bancorp economically hedges 
its exposure to mortgage loans he
ld for sale through the use of 
forward contracts and mortgage options.  
The Bancorp also establishes de
rivative contracts with major 
financial institutions to economic
ally hedge significant exposures 
assumed in commercial customer accommodation derivative 

contracts. Generally, these contracts 
have similar terms in order to 
protect the Bancorp from market volatility. Credit risk arises from 

the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their 

contracts, which the Bancorp minimizes through collateral 

arrangements, approvals, limits and monitoring procedures. For 

further information including the notional amount and fair values of 
these derivatives, see Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated 
Financial Statements. 
 Portfolio Loans and Leases and Interest Rate Risk 
Although the Bancorp™s portfolio
 loans and leases contain both 
fixed and floating/adjustable rate products, the rates of interest 
earned by the Bancorp on the outstanding balances are generally 
established for a period of time. The interest rate sensitivity of loans 

and leases is directly related to the 
length of time the rate earned is 
established. Table 56 summarizes th
e expected principal cash flows 
of the Bancorp™s portfolio loans and leases as of December 31, 

2012. Additionally, Table 57 displays a summary of expected 

principal cash flows occurring 
after one year for both fixed and 
floating/adjustable rate loans, as of December 31, 2012.
TABLE 56: PORTFOLIO LOAN AND LEASE CONTRACTUAL MATURITIES
         As of December 31, 2012
 ($ in millions) 
 Less than 1 year 
 1-5 years  Over 5 years 
 Total 
     Commercial and industrial loans 
$ 9,822 
   23,971 
   2,245 
   36,038 
      Commercial mortgage loans 
  4,297 
   4,110 
   696 
   9,103 
      Commercial construction loans 
  299 
   369 
   30 
   698 
      Commercial leases 
  612 
   1,573 
   1,364 
   3,549 
  Subtotal - commercial loans and leases 
  15,030 
   30,023 
   4,335 
   49,388 
      Residential mortgage loans 
  3,213 
   4,879 
   3,925 
   12,017 
      Home equity 
  1,485 
   5,560 
   2,973 
   10,018 
      Automobile loans 
  4,798 
   6,945 
   229 
   11,972 
      Credit card 
  598 
   1,499 
   - 
   2,097 
      Other consumer loans and leases 
  232 
   55 
   3 
   290 
  Subtotal - consumer loans and leases 
  10,326 
   18,938 
   7,130 
   36,394 
  Total 
$ 25,356 
   48,961 
   11,465 
   85,782 
  TABLE 57: PORTFOLIO LOAN AND LEASE PRINCIPAL CASH FLOWS OCCURING AFTER ONE YEAR
    Interest Rate 
As of December 31, 2012
 ($ in millions) 
 Fixed 
 Floating or Adjustable 
     Commercial and industrial loans 
$ 3,385 
 22,831 
      Commercial mortgage loans 
  1,319 
 3,487 
      Commercial construction loans 
  27 
 372 
      Commercial leases 
  2,937 
 - 
 Subtotal - commercial loans and leases 
  7,668 
 26,690 
      Residential mortgage loans 
  6,394 
 2,410 
      Home equity 
  1,058 
 7,475 
      Automobile loans 
  7,128 
 46 
      Credit card 
  627 
 872 
      Other consumer loans and leases 
  38 
 20 
 Subtotal - consumer loans and leases 
  15,245 
 10,823 
 Total 
$ 22,913 
 37,513 
  Residential Mortgage Servicing Rights and Interest Rate Risk 
The net carrying amount of the residential MSR portfolio was $697 
million and $681 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, 

respectively. The value of servic
ing rights can fluctuate sharply 
depending on changes in interest rates and other factors. Generally, 
as interest rates decline and loans 
are prepaid to take advantage of 
refinancing, the total value of existing servicing rights declines 

because no further servicing fees ar
e collected on repaid loans. The 
Bancorp maintains a non-qualifying hedging strategy relative to its 

mortgage banking activity in orde
r to manage a portion of the risk 
associated with changes in the valu
e of its MSR portfolio as a result 
of changing interest rates. 
Mortgage rates decreased during both 2012 and 2011. This 
caused modeled prepayments speeds 
to increase, which led to $103 
million in temporary impairment on servicing rights during the year 

ended 2012, compared to $242 milli
on in temporary impairment on 
servicing rights during the year ended 2011. Servicing rights are 

deemed temporarily impaired when a borrower™s loan rate is 
distinctly higher than prevailing rates. Temporary impairment on 
servicing rights is reversed when 
the prevailing rates return to a level 
commensurate with the borrower™s loan rate. In addition to the 

mortgage servicing rights valuat
ion, the Bancorp recognized net 
gains of $66 million and $354 million on its non-qualifying hedging 
strategy for the years ended 20
12 and 2011, respectively. The net 
gains include net gains on the sale of securities related to the 

Bancorp™s non-qualifying hedging strategy of $3 million and $9 

million for 2012 and 2011, respectivel
y. During the fourth quarter 
of 2011, the Bancorp assessed the composition of its MSR 

portfolio, the cost of hedging and the anticipated effectiveness of 

the hedges given the economic environment.  Based on this review, 
the Bancorp adjusted its MSR he
dging strategy to exclude the 
hedging of MSRs related to certain
 mortgage loans originated in 
2008 and prior, representing appr
oximately 16% of the carrying 
value of the MSR portfolio as of December 31, 2012.  The 

prepayment behavior of these loans is expected to be less sensitive 

to changes in interest rates as tighter industry underwriting 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  75  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 standards, borrower credit characteristics and home price values 
have had a greater impact on prepayment speeds. Thus, the 

predictive power of traditional prepayment models that are based 

solely on the historical dependency of prepayment speeds on market interest rates may not be reliable for these loans. As a result, the 
Bancorp has considered these additional factors as it models 

prepayment speeds when valuing the MSRs. The Bancorp utilizes 

valuation opinions from servicing brokers, peer surveys and its 

historical prepayment experience in validating the modeled 
prepayment speeds utilized in th
e fair value measurement of the 
MSRs. As these additional factors have had an impact on 

prepayment speeds, the effectiveness of traditional hedging 
strategies utilizing benchmark interest rate based derivatives has 
been reduced. In addition to the market factors that impact 

prepayment speeds, the Bancorp is exposed to prepayment risk on 

these loans in the event borrowers refinance at higher than expected 

levels due to government intervention or other factors.  The 

Bancorp continues to monitor the performance of these MSRs and 

may decide to hedge this portion of the MSR portfolio in future 

periods. See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements for further discussion on servicing rights and the 
instruments used to hedge interest rate risk on MSRs. 
 Foreign Currency Risk 
The Bancorp may enter into foreign exchange derivative contracts 

to economically hedge certain foreign denominated loans. The 
derivatives are classified as fr
ee-standing instruments with the 
revaluation gain or loss being recorded in other noninterest income 

in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The balance of the 

Bancorp™s foreign denominated loans at December 31, 2012 and 

2011 was $549 million and $374 million, respectively. The Bancorp 

also enters into foreign exchange contracts for the benefit of 

commercial customers involved in in
ternational trade to hedge their 
exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. The Bancorp has internal 
controls in place to help ensure ex
cessive risk is not being taken in 
providing this service to custo
mers. These controls include an 
independent determination of currency volatility and credit 

equivalent exposure on these contracts, counterparty credit 

approvals and country limits.  LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT 

The goal of liquidity management is to provide adequate funds to 

meet changes in loan and lease demand, unexpected levels of 

deposit withdrawals and other cont
ractual obligations. Mitigating 
liquidity risk is accomplished by 
maintaining liquid assets in the 
form of investment securities, maintaining sufficient unused 

borrowing capacity in the debt markets and delivering consistent 

growth in core deposits. A summary of certain obligations and 
commitments to make future payments under contracts is included 
in Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
The Bancorp maintains a contingency funding plan that 
assesses the liquidity needs unde
r various scenarios of market 
conditions, asset growth and cred
it rating downgrades. The plan 
includes liquidity stress testing 
which measures various sources and 
uses of funds under the different scenarios. The contingency plan 

provides for ongoing monitoring of unused borrowing capacity and 
available sources of contingent liquidity to prepare for unexpected 
liquidity needs and to cover unanti
cipated events that could affect 
liquidity. 

 Sources of Funds The Bancorp™s primary sources of funds relate to cash flows from 

loan and lease repayments, payments from securities related to sales 

and maturities, the sale or securi
tization of loans and leases and 
funds generated by core deposits, in addition to the use of public 
and private debt offerings. Projected contractual maturities from loan and lease 
repayments are included in Ta
ble 56 of the Market Risk 
Management section of MD&A. Of th
e $15.2 billion of securities in 
the Bancorp™s available-for-sale portfolio at December 31, 2012, 
$3.8 billion in principal and interest 
is expected to be received in the 
next 12 months and an additional $2.2 billion is expected to be 
received in the next 13 to 24 months. For further information on 
the Bancorp™s securities portfolio
, see the Securities section of 
MD&A. Asset-driven liquidity is provided by the Bancorp™s ability to 
sell or securitize loan and lease 
assets. In order to reduce the 
exposure to interest rate fluctuations and to manage liquidity, the 

Bancorp has developed securitization and sale procedures for 

several types of interest-sensitive assets. A majority of the long-
term, fixed-rate single-family residential mortgage loans 
underwritten according to FHLMC or FNMA guidelines are sold 

for cash upon origination. Additi
onal assets such as residential 
mortgages, certain commercial loans,
 home equity loans, automobile 
loans and other consumer loans are 
also capable of being securitized 
or sold. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, the 

Bancorp sold loans totaling $
21.7 billion and $15.2 billion, 
respectively. For further information on the transfer of financial 

assets, see Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial 

Statements. Core deposits have historically provided the Bancorp with a 
sizeable source of relatively stable and low cost funds. The 
Bancorp™s average core deposits and shareholders™ equity funded 
82% of its average total assets during 2012, compared to 81% in 

2011. In addition to core deposit funding, the Bancorp also accesses 

a variety of other short-term and long-term funding sources, which 

include the use of the FHLB system. Certificates of deposit carrying 

a balance of $100,000 or more and deposits in the Bancorp™s foreign 

branch located in the Cayman Islands are wholesale funding tools 

utilized to fund asset growth. Management does not rely on any one 
source of liquidity and manages av
ailability in response to changing 
balance sheet needs. The Bancorp has a shelf registration in place with the SEC 
permitting ready access to the public debt markets and qualifies as a 

ﬁwell-known seasoned issuerﬂ under the SEC rules. As of 2012, $5.6 
billion of debt or other securities were available for issuance under 

the current Bancorp™s Board of Directors™ authorizations, however, 

access to these markets may depend on market conditions. The 
Bancorp also has $19.0 billion of funding available for issuance 
through private offerings of debt s
ecurities pursuant to its bank note 
program and currently has approximately $33.7 billion of borrowing 

capacity available through secure
d borrowing sources including the 
FHLB and FRB. Additionally, from time to time the Bancorp may 

change the terms of the bank note program, including by increasing 

its size. 
On March 7, 2012, the Bancorp issued $500 million in 
aggregate principal amount of 3.50% Senior Notes due March 15, 
2022. On August 8, 2012, the Ba
ncorp redeemed all $862.5 million 
of the outstanding TruPS issued by
 Fifth Third Capital Trust VI. In 
addition, on August 15, 2012, the Bancorp redeemed all $575 

million of the outstanding TruPS issued by Fifth Third Capital Trust 

V. On December 7, 2012, the Bancor
p terminated a $1.0 billion 
FHLB advance with a fixed rate of 4.56% and a maturity date of 

January 5, 2016. See Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements for additional informati
on regarding the Senior Notes, 
TruPS and FHLB advances.   MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  76  Fifth Third Bancorp 
Credit Ratings 
The cost and availability of financing to the Bancorp are impacted 
by its credit ratings. A downgrade to the Bancorp™s credit ratings 

could affect its ability to access the credit markets and increase its 
borrowing costs, thereby adversely impacting the Bancorp™s 
financial condition and liquidity. Key factors in maintaining high 

credit ratings include a stable and diverse earnings stream, strong 

credit quality, strong capital ratios and diverse funding sources, in 

addition to disciplined liquidi
ty monitoring procedures. 
The Bancorp™s credit ratings ar
e summarized in Table 58. The 
ratings reflect the ratings agencies 
view on the Bancorp™s capacity to 
meet financial commitments. *  

 * As an investor, you should be aware that a security rating is not a 
recommendation to buy, sell or hold securiti
es, that it may be subject to revision 
or withdrawal at any time by the assi
gning rating organization and that each 
rating should be evaluated independ
ently of any other rating. Additional 
information on the credit rating ranking wi
thin the overall classification system is 
located on the website of each credit rating agency.                         
 TABLE 58: AGENCY RATINGS
     As of  February 22, 2013
 Moody's Standard and Poor's 
Fitch DBRS 
Fifth Third Bancorp: 
        Short-term 
No rating 
A-2 F1 R-1L 
    Senior debt 
Baa1 
BBB A- AL     Subordinated debt 
Baa2 
BBB- 
BBB+ BBBH Fifth Third Bank: 
        Short-term 
P-2 A-2 F1 R-1L 
    Long-term deposit 
A3 No rating 
A A     Senior debt 
A3 BBB+ A- A     Subordinated debt 
Baa1 
BBB BBB+ A (low) 
     CAPITAL MANAGEMENT  
Management regularly reviews the Bancorp™s capital levels to help 

ensure it is appropriately posi
tioned under various operating 
environments. The Bancorp has established a Capital Committee, 

which is responsible for all capital related decisions. The Capital 
Committee makes recommendations to management involving 
capital actions. These recommendati
ons are reviewed and approved 
by the ERM Committee. 
 Capital Ratios 
The U.S banking agencies establis
hed quantitative measures that 
assign risk weightings to assets
 and off-balance sheet items and also 
define and set minimum regulatory
 capital requirements. The U.S. 
banking agencies define ﬁwell capitalizedﬂ ratios for Tier I and total 
risk-based capital as 6% and 10%, respectively. The Bancorp 

exceeded these ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ ratios for all periods presented. 
The Basel II advanced approach
 framework was finalized by 
U.S. banking agencies in 2007. Co
re banks, defined as those with 
consolidated total assets in excess of $250 billion or on balance 

sheet foreign exposures of $10 billion were required to adopt the 

advanced approach effective April 1, 2008. The Bancorp does not 
meet these thresholds and, therefore, is not subject to the 
requirements of Basel II. The Dodd-Frank Act requires more stringent prudential 
standards, including capital and 
liquidity requirements, for larger 
institutions. It addresses the quality of capital components by 

limiting the degree to which certain hybrid instruments can be 

included. The Dodd-Frank Act will phase out the inclusion of 

certain TruPS as a component of Tier I risk-based capital beginning 
January 1, 2013. At December 31, 2012, the Bancorp™s Tier I risk-
based capital included $810 million of TruPS representing 

approximately 74 bps of risk-weighted assets. 
In December of 2010 and revised in June of 2011, the Basel 
Committee on Banking Supervision issued Basel III, a global 
regulatory framework, to enhance international capital standards. In 
June of 2012, U.S. banking regu
lators proposed enhancements to 
the regulatory capital requirements for U.S. banks, which implement 

aspects of Basel III, such as re-defining the regulatory capital 

elements and minimum capital ratios
,  introducing regulatory capital 
buffers above those minimums, re
vising the agencies™ rules for 
calculating risk-weighted assets and introducing a new Tier I 

common equity ratio. The Bancorp continues to evaluate these 

proposals and their potential impact. Its current estimate of the pro-

forma fully phased in Tier I comm
on equity ratio at December 31, 
2012 under the proposed capital rules is approximately 8.78%* 

compared with 9.51% as calculated 
under the existing Basel I capital 
framework. The primary drivers of the change from the existing 
Basel I capital framework to the Basel III proposal are an increase in 
Tier I common equity of approximately 39 bps (primarily from 

including AOCI) which would be more
 than offset by the impact of 
increases in risk-weighted assets (p
rimarily from 1-4 family senior 
and junior lien residential mortgages and commitments with an 

original maturity of one year or less). The pro-forma Tier I common 

equity ratio exceeds the proposed minimum Tier I common equity 

ratio of 7% comprised of a mi
nimum of 4.5% plus a capital 
conservation buffer of 2.5%.  The pro-forma Tier I common equity 
ratio does not include the effect of any mitigating actions the 

Bancorp may undertake to offset the impact of the proposed capital 

enhancements. For further discussion on the Basel I and Basel III 

Tier I common equity ratios, see the Non-GAAP Financial 

Measures section of MD&A.  
 * The pro forma Tier I  common equity rati
o is management™s estimate based upon 
its current interpretation of the three draft Federal Register notices proposing 

enhancements to regulatory capital requir
ements published in June of 2012.  The 
actual impact to the Bancorp™s Tier I common equity ratio may change significantly 
due to further clarification of the agencies 
proposals or revisions to the agencies final 
rules, which remain subject to public comment.     
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  77  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 TABLE 59: CAPITAL RATIOS
      As of December 31 ($ in millions)
  2012 
  2011 
 2010  
2009  
2008  
Average equity as a percent of average assets 
  11.65 
 %  11.41 
  12.22  
  11.36  
  8.78  
 Tangible equity as a percent of tangible assets
(a)   9.17 
    9.03 
  10.42  
  9.71  
  7.86  
 Tangible common equity as a percent of tangible assets
(a)   8.83 
    8.68 
  7.04  
  6.45  
  4.23  
              Tier I capital
 $  11,685 
   12,503 
  13,965  
  13,428  
  11,924  
 Total risk-based capital 
  15,816 
    16,885 
  18,178  
  17,648  
  16,646  
 Risk-weighted assets
(b)   109,699 
    104,945 
  100,561  
  100,933  
  112,622  
              Regulatory capital ratios:
             Tier I capital
   10.65 
 %  11.91 
  13.89  
  13.30  
  10.59  
 Total risk-based capital 
  14.42 
    16.09 
  18.08  
  17.48  
  14.78  
 Tier I leverage 
  10.05 
    11.10 
  12.79  
  12.34  
  10.27  
 Tier I common equity(a)   9.51 
    9.35 
  7.48  
  6.99  
  4.37  
 (a) For further information on these ratios, see the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of the MD&A. 
(b) Under the banking agencies™ risk-based capital guidelines, assets 
and credit equivalent amounts of derivatives and off-balance 
sheet exposures are assigned to broad 
risk categories. The aggregate dollar 
amount in each risk category is multipli
ed by the associated risk weight of the 
category. The resulting weighted values are add
ed together resulting in the Banc
orp™s total risk-weighted assets. 
2012 Capital Actions 
As part of the 2012 CCAR, on January 9, 2012, the Bancorp 
submitted to the FRB a capital plan approved by its Board of 

Directors covering the period from January 1, 2012 to March 31, 

2013. The mandatory elements of the capital plan were an 

assessment of the expected use and sources of capital over the 

planning horizon, a description of all planned capital actions over 
the planning horizon, a discussion of any expected changes to the 
Bancorp™s business plan that are lik
ely to have a material impact on 
its capital adequacy or liquidity, a detailed description of the 

Bancorp™s process for assessing capital adequacy and the Bancorp™s 

capital policy. 
 The FRB assessed the comprehensiveness of the capital plan, 

the reasonableness of the assumptions and the analysis underlying 

the capital plan and reviewed the robustness of the capital adequacy 
process, the capital policy and th
e Bancorp™s ability to maintain 
capital above the minimum regulatory capital ratio and above a Tier 
I common ratio of 5% on a pro-forma basis under expected and 

stressful conditions throughout the planning horizon.   

 On March 13, 2012 the Bancorp announced the FRB™s 

response to the capital plan it su
bmitted as part of the 2012 CCAR. 
The FRB indicated that it did not object to the following capital 

actions: a continuation of its quart
erly common dividend of $0.08 
per share; the redemption of up to 
$1.4 billion in certain TruPS; and 
the repurchase of common shares in an amount equal to any after-

tax gains realized by Fifth Third from the sale of Vantiv, Inc. 

common shares by either Fifth Third or Vantiv, Inc. 

 The FRB indicated to the Bancorp that it did object to other 

elements of its capital plan, incl
uding increases in its quarterly 
common dividend and the initiation of common share repurchases 

other than those described in the paragraph above. The Bancorp 
resubmitted its capital plan to the FRB on June 8, 2012. The 
resubmitted plan included capital 
actions and distributions for the 
covered period through March 31, 2013 that were substantially 

similar to those included in the original submission, with 

adjustments primarily reflecting the 
change in the expected timing 
of capital actions and distributions 
relative to the timing assumed in 
the original submission. 
 Consistent with the 2012 CCAR plan, the Bancorp redeemed 
all $862.5 million of the outstanding TruPS issued by Fifth Third 
Capital Trust VI and recognized a $9 million loss on extinguishment 

in the Bancorp™s Consolidated 
Financial Statements. Additionally, 
the Bancorp redeemed all $575 million of the outstanding TruPS 

issued by Fifth Third Capital Trust V and recognized a $17 million 

loss on extinguishment in the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial 

Statements.  On August 21, 2012, the Bancorp announced that the FRB did 
not object to its capital plan resubmitted under the CCAR process, 

which included potential increases to the quarterly common stock 

dividend and the repurchases of common shares of up to $600 

million through the first quarter of 2013, in addition to any 

incremental repurchase of common shares related to any after-tax 

gains realized by the Bancorp from the sale of Vantiv, Inc. common 
shares by either the Bancorp or Vantiv, Inc. 
 Dividend Policy and Stock Repurchase Program  
The Bancorp™s common stock dividend policy and stock repurchase 

program reflect its earnings outlook
, desired payout ratios, the need 
to maintain adequate capital levels
, the ability of its subsidiaries to 
pay dividends, the need to comply with safe and sound banking 

practices as well as meet regulat
ory requirements and expectations. 
The Bancorp declared dividends per common share of $0.36 and 
$0.28 during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, 

respectively.   
Consistent with the 2012 CCAR plan, on April 23, 2012, the 
Bancorp entered into an accelerated share repurchase transaction 

with a counterparty pursuant 
to which the Bancorp purchased 
4,838,710 shares, or approximately $
75 million, of its outstanding 
common stock on April 26, 2012. As pa
rt of this transaction, and all 
subsequent accelerated share repurchase transactions in 2012, the 
Bancorp entered into a forward contract in which the final number 

of shares delivered at settlement of
 the accelerated share repurchase 
transaction was based on a discount to the average daily volume-

weighted average price of the Bancorp™s common stock during the 

term of the Repurchase Agreement. The accelerated share 

repurchase was treated as two 
separate transactions (i) the 
acquisition of treasury shares on the acquisition date and (ii) a 
forward contract indexed to the Bancorp™s stock. At settlement of 
the April 2012 forward contract on June 1, 2012, the Bancorp 

received an additional 631,986 shares
 which were recorded as an 
adjustment to the basis in the tr
easury shares purchased on the 
acquisition date.   
As a result of the FRB™s non-obj
ection to the Bancorp™s capital 
plan resubmitted under the CCAR process, on August 21, 2012, 

Fifth Third™s Board of Directors authorized the Bancorp to 
repurchase up to 100 million shares of its outstanding common 
stock in the open market or in priv
ately negotiated transactions, and 
to utilize any derivative or similar instrument to affect share 

repurchase transactions. 
Additionally, on August 23, 2012, the Bancorp entered into an 
accelerated share repurchase tr
ansaction with a counterparty 
pursuant to which the Bancorp purchased 21,531,100 shares or 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  78  Fifth Third Bancorp 
approximately $350 million of it
s outstanding common stock on 
August 28, 2012. At settlement of the forward contract on October 

24, 2012, the Bancorp received an 
additional 1,444,047 shares which 
were recorded as an adjustment to the basis in the treasury shares 
purchased on the acquisition date. 
On November 6, 2012, the 
Bancorp entered into an 
accelerated share repurchase tr
ansaction with a counterparty 
pursuant to which the Bancorp purchased 7,710,761 shares, or 

approximately $125 million, of its outstanding common stock on 

November 9, 2012. At settlement of the forward contract on 
February 12, 2013, the Bancorp received an additional 657,917 
shares which were recorded as an adjustment to the basis in the 

treasury shares purchased on the acquisition date. 
Following the sale of a portion of the Bancorp™s shares of Class 
A Vantiv, Inc. common stock, the Bancorp entered into an 
accelerated share repurchase transaction on December 14, 2012 

with a counterparty pursuant 
to which the Bancorp purchased 
6,267,410 shares, or approximately 
$100 million, of its outstanding 
common stock on December 19, 2012. The Bancorp expects the 

settlement of the transaction to occur on March 14, 2013. 
 TABLE 60: SHARE REPURCHASES
  For the years ended December 31
 2012 
 2011 
 2010  
Shares authorized for repurchase at January 1 
 19,201,518 
  19,201,518 
  19,201,518 
 Additional authorizations
(a)  86,269,178 
 - - Share repurchases
(b)
  (42,424,014)
 - - Shares authorized for repurchase at December 31  
 63,046,682 
  19,201,518 
  19,201,518 
 Average price paid per share  
$ 14.82
 N/A  N/A  (a) In August 2012, the Bancorp announced that its Board of Direct
ors had authorized management to purchase 100 million shares of t
he Bancorp™s common stock through the open market or in any 
private transaction. The authorization does 
not include specific price targets or an expiration date. This share repurchase aut
horization replaces the Board™s previous authorization pursuant to which 
approximately 14 million shares remained available for repurchase by the Bancorp. 
(b) Excludes 2,059,003
, 1,164,254 and 333,808 shares repurchased during 
2012
, 2011, and 2010, respectively, in co
nnection with various employee compensa
tion plans. These repurchases are not 
included in the calculation for average price paid and do not co
unt against the maximum number of shares that may yet be repurc
hased under the Board of Directors™ authorization. 
 2013 Stress Tests and CCAR On October 9, 2012, the FRB published final stress testing rules 
that implement section 165(i)(1) and (i)(2) of the Dodd-Frank Act. 

The 19 bank holding companies that participated in the 2009 SCAP 

and subsequent CCAR, which includes Fifth Third, are subject to 

the final stress testing rules. The rules require both supervisory and 

company-run stress tests, which provide forward-looking 

information to supervisors to help 
assess whether institutions have 
sufficient capital to absorb loss
es and support operations during 
adverse economic conditions.  
The FRB launched the 2013 stress testing program and CCAR 
on November 9, 2012. The CCAR requires bank holding companies 

to submit a capital plan in addition 
to their stress testing results. The 
mandatory elements of the capital plan are an assessment of the 

expected use and sources of capital over the planning horizon, a 

description of all planned capital ac
tions over the planning horizon, 
a discussion of any expected change
s to the Bancorp™s business plan 
that are likely to have a material impact on its capital adequacy or 
liquidity, a detailed description of the Bancorp™s process for 

assessing capital adequacy and the Bancorp™s capital policy. The 

stress testing results and capital plan were submitted by the Bancorp 

to the FRB on January 7, 2013. The FRB™s review of the capital plan will assess the 
comprehensiveness of the capital plan, the reasonableness of the 

assumptions and the analysis underlying the capital plan. 
Additionally, the FRB will review 
the robustness of the capital 
adequacy process, the capital policy and the Bancorp™s ability to 

maintain capital above the minimu
m regulatory capital ratios and 
above a Tier 1 common ratio of 5 percent on a pro forma basis 

under expected and stressful conditions throughout the planning 

horizon. The FRB will also assess the Bancorp™s strategies for 

addressing proposed revisions to
 the regulatory capital framework 
agreed upon by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and 
requirements arising from the Dodd-Frank Act.  
The FRB has indicated that it expects to disclose on March 7, 
2013 its estimates of participating institutions results under the FRB 

supervisory stress scenario, includ
ing capital results, which assume 
that all banks take certain consistently applied future capital actions.  

The FRB has indicated that it expects to disclose on March 14, 2013 

its estimates of participating institutions results under the FRB 

supervisory severe stress scenarios 
including capital results based on 
each company™s own base scenario
 capital actions. The FRB will 
also issue an objection or non-obj
ection to each participating 
institution™s capital plan submitted under CCAR. Additionally, as a 

CCAR institution, Fifth Third is required to disclose our own 

estimates of results under the supervisory severely adverse scenario 

using the same consistently applied capital actions noted above, and 

to provide information related to risks included in its stress testing; 

a summary description of the met
hodologies used; estimates of 
aggregate pre-provision net revenue, losses, provisions, and pro 
forma capital ratios at the end 
of the forward-looking planning 
horizon of at least nine quarters; and an explanation of the most 

significant causes of changes in
 regulatory capital ratios. These 
disclosures are required by March 31, 2013 and are to be sent to the 

FRB and publicly disclosed.  
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  79  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS  
In the ordinary course of business, the Bancorp enters into financial 
transactions to extend credit 
and various forms of commitments 
and guarantees that may be considered off-balance sheet 
arrangements. These transactions involve varying elements of 

market, credit and liquidity risk. Refer to Note 16 of the Notes to 

Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. A 

discussion of these transactions is as follows: 

 
Residential Mortgage Loan Sales 

Conforming residential mortgage loans sold to unrelated third 
parties are generally sold with re
presentation and warranty recourse provisions. Such provisions in
clude the loan™s compliance with 
applicable loan criteria, includ
ing certain documentation standards 
per agreements with unrelated third parties. Additional reasons for 

the Bancorp having to repurchase the loans include compliance with 

collateral appraisal standards, fraud 
related to the loan application 
and the rescission of mortgage insurance. Under these provisions, 

the Bancorp is required to repurcha
se any previously sold loan for 
which the representation or warranty of the Bancorp proves to be 
inaccurate, incomplete or mislea
ding. As of December 31, 2012 and 
2011, the Bancorp maintained reserv
es related to these loans sold 
with representation and warranty recourse provisions totaling $110 

million and $55 million, respectively, included in other liabilities in 

the Bancorp™s Consolidated Balance Sheets. During the third and 

fourth quarters of 2012, the Bancorp received additional 

information from FHLMC regarding their file selection criteria.  As 
a result of these communications, the Bancorp was able to better 
estimate the probable losses on cer
tain loans sold to FHLMC which 
was the primary driver in the incr
ease in the representation and 
warranty reserve from December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2012. 
During 2012 and 2011, the Bancorp paid $34 million and $63 
million, respectively, in the form of make whole payments and 

repurchased $114 million and $122 million, respectively, in 

outstanding principal of loans to 
satisfy investor demands. Total 
repurchase demand requests during 2012 and 2011 were $340 
million and $350 million, respective
ly. Total outstanding repurchase 
demand inventory was $67 million at December 31, 2012 compared 

to $66 million at December 31, 2011. The Bancorp sold certain residential mortgage loans in the 
secondary market with credit recourse. In the event of any customer 

default, pursuant to the credit recourse provided, the Bancorp is 

required to reimburse the third party. The maximum amount of 
credit risk in the event of nonperformance by the underlying 
borrowers is equivalent to the 
total outstanding balance. In the 
event of nonperformance, the Bancorp has rights to the underlying 

collateral value securing the loan. At December 31, 2012, the 

outstanding balances on these loans sold with credit recourse was 

$662 million compared to $772 million at December 31, 2011. The 

Bancorp maintained an estimated credit loss reserve on these loans 

sold with credit recourse of $20 million and $17 million at 
December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, included in other 
liabilities in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheets. To determine the 
credit loss reserve, the Bancorp used an approach that is consistent 

with its overall approach in esti
mating credit losses for various 
categories of residential mortgage lo
ans held in its loan portfolio.   
 
Private Mortgage Insurance 

For certain mortgage loans originated by the Bancorp, borrowers 
may be required to obtain PMI provided by third-party insurers. In 
some instances, these insurers cede a portion of the PMI premiums 

to the Bancorp, and the Bancorp provides reinsurance coverage 

within a specified range of the total PMI coverage. The Bancorp™s 

reinsurance coverage typically ranges from 5% to 10% of the total 

PMI coverage.  
The Bancorp™s maximum exposure in the event of 
nonperformance by the underlying borrowers is equivalent to the 
Bancorp's total outstanding reinsurance coverage, which was $58 
million at December 31, 2012 and $77 million at December 31, 

2011. The Bancorp maintained a reserve, included in other liabilities 

in the Bancorp™s Consolidated B
alance Sheets, related to exposures 
within the reinsurance portfolio 
of $18 million as of December 31, 
2012 and $27 million as of December 31, 2011. In 2009, the 

Bancorp suspended the practice of providing reinsurance of private 

mortgage insurance for newly originated mortgage loans. In the 
second quarter of 2011, the Bancorp allowed one of its third-party 
insurers to terminate its reinsurance agreement with the Bancorp, 

resulting in the Bancorp releasin
g collateral to the insurer in the 
form of investment securities and other assets with a carrying value 

of $5 million, and the insurer assuming the Bancorp™s obligations 

under the reinsurance agreement, resulting in a decrease to the 

Bancorp™s reserve liability of $11 million and decrease in the 

Bancorp™s maximum exposure of $27 
million. In the fourth quarter 
of 2012, the Bancorp allowed one of its third-party insurers to 
terminate its reinsurance agreement with the Bancorp, resulting in 

the insurer assuming the Bancorp™s obligations under the 

reinsurance agreement, resulting in a decrease to the Bancorp™s 

reserve liability of $2 million and decrease in the Bancorp™s 

maximum exposure of $3 million.
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  80  Fifth Third Bancorp 
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER COMMITMENTS 
The Bancorp has certain obligations and commitments to make 
future payments under contracts. The aggregate contractual 
obligations and commitments at December 31, 2012 are shown in 
Table 61. As of December 31, 2012, the Bancorp has unrecognized 

tax benefits that, if recognized, wo
uld impact the effective tax rate 
in future periods. Due to the un
certainty of the amounts to be 
ultimately paid as well as the timing of such payments, all uncertain 
tax liabilities that have not been paid have been excluded from the 
Contractual Obligations and Other 
Commitments table. For further 
detail on the impact of income taxes see Note 19 of the Notes to 

Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 TABLE 61: CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER COMMITMENTS
   As of December 31, 2012 ($ in millions) 
 Less than 1 
year 1-3 years 3-5 years Greater than 5 years 
Total 
Contractually obligated payments due by period: 
        Deposits with a stated maturity of less than one year
(a) $82,218
 - 
 - 
 - 
82,218
     Time deposits
(c)  4,834
2,029 
 383 
 53 
7,299
     Short-term borrowings
(e)
  7,181
 - 
 - 
 - 
7,181
     Long-term debt
(b)  1,277
597 
1,928 
3,283 
7,085
     Forward contracts to sell mortgage loans
(d)  5,322
 - 
 - 
 - 
5,322
     Noncancelable lease obligations
(f)  89166 
 141 
 373 
769
     Partnership investment commitments
(g)  219
 134 
 10 
 31 
394
     Pension obligations
(i)  1935 
 31 
 67 
152
     Purchase obligations and capital expenditures
(h)  4942 
 25 
 - 
116
     Capital lease obligations 
 713 
 3 
 1 
24Total contractually obligated payments due by period 
$101,215
3,016 
2,521 
3,808 
110,560
Other commitments by expiration period 
           Commitments to extend credit
(j) $30,715
7,497 
15,191 
121 
53,524
     Letters of credit
(k)  1,831
2,088 
319 
43 
4,281
Total other commitments by expiration period 
$32,546
9,585 
15,510 
164 
57,805
(a) Includes demand, interest checking, savings, money market and 
foreign office deposits. For additional information, see the Depo
sits discussion in the Balance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A. 
(b) In the banking industry, interest-bearing obligations are principal
ly used to fund interest-earning assets. As such, interest c
harges on contractual obligations were 
excluded from reported amounts, as 
the potential cash outflows would have corresponding cash inflows 
from interest-earning assets. S
ee Note 15 of the Notes to Con
solidated Financial Statements for additional information on these debt 
instruments. 
(c) Includes other time and certificates $100,000 and over. For addit
ional information, see the Deposits discussion in the Balance 
Sheet Analysis section of MD&A. 
(d) See Note 11 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for additional information on forward contracts to sell residenti
al mortgage loans. 
(e) Includes federal funds purchased and borrowings with an original 
maturity of less than one year. For additional information, se
e Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
(f) Includes rental commitments. 
(g) Includes low-income housing, historic ta
x investments and market tax credits. 
(h) Represents agreements to purchase goods or services and includes 
commitments to various general contractors for work related to
 banking center construction. 
(i) See Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on pension obligations. 
(j) Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend, typically 
having fixed expiration dates or
 other termination clauses that 
may require payment of a fee. Many of
 the commitments to extend credit 
may expire without being drawn upon. The total commitment amount
s include capital commitments for private equity investments an
d do not necessarily represent future cash flow requirements. For 
additional information, see Note 16 of the No
tes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
(k) Letters of credit are conditional commitments issued to guarant
ee the performance of a customer to a third party. For additiona
l information, see Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements. 
   MANAGEMENT™S ASSESSMENT AS TO THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 
  81  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The Bancorp conducted an evaluation, under the supervision and wi
th the participation of the Bancorp™s management, including th
e Bancorp™s 
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effect
iveness of the design and operation of the Bancorp™s disclosu
re controls and 
procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the S
ecurities Exchange Act). Based on the foregoing, as of the e
nd of the period 
covered by this report, the Bancorp™s Chie
f Executive Officer and Chief Financial Offi
cer concluded that the Bancorp™s disclosu
re controls and 
procedures were effective, in all material re
spects, to ensure that information required to be disclosed in the reports the Ban
corp files and submits 
under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and re
ported as and when required and information is accumulated and 
communicated to management on a timely basis. 
The management of Fifth Third Bancorp is responsible for establis
hing and maintaining adequate in
ternal control, designed to pr
ovide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporti
ng and the preparation of financial statements for external 
purposes in accordance 
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United St
ates of America. The Bancorp™s management assessed the effectiven
ess of the 
Bancorp™s internal control over financial reporting as of Decemb
er 31, 2012. Management™s assessment is based on the criteria e
stablished in the 
Internal Control Š Integrated Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizati
ons of the Treadway Commission and was designed to 
provide reasonable assurance that the Bancorp maintained effect
ive internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
 2012. Based on 
this assessment, management believes that the Bancorp maintained
 effective internal control over financial reporting as of Dece
mber 31, 2012. 
The Bancorp™s independent registered public accounting firm, th
at audited the Bancorp™s consolidated financial statements inclu
ded in this annual 
report, has issued an audit report on our internal control over
 financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. This report appear
s on page 82 of the 
annual report. The Bancorp™s management also conducted an evaluation of internal 
control over financial reporting to determine whether any cha
nges 
occurred during the year covered by this report that have mate
rially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, t
he Bancorp™s internal 
control over financial reporting. Based on this evaluation, there has been no such chan
ge during the year covered by this repor
t.  
Kevin T. Kabat                            Daniel T. Poston 
Vice Chairman and Chief Executive Officer                        
                      Executive Vice President and Chief Finan
cial Officer 
February 22, 2013                                        February 22, 2013 
   
 
  REPORTS OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  82  Fifth Third Bancorp 
To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Fifth Third Bancorp: 
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of
 Fifth Third Bancorp and subsidiaries (the ﬁBancorpﬂ) as of Dec
ember 31, 2012, 
based on criteria established in 
Internal Control Š Integrated Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsori
ng Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission. The Bancorp's management is responsible for maintain
ing effective internal control over financial reporting and for
 its assessment of 
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, in
cluded in the accompanying Ma
nagement™s Assessment as to the 
Effectiveness of 
Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to
 express an opinion on the Bancorp's internal control over f
inancial reporting 
based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Pu
blic Company Accounting Oversigh
t Board (United States). Those
 standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtai
n reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control ov
er financial 
reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit in
cluded obtaining an understanding of internal control over finan
cial reporting, 
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and 
evaluating the design and operati
ng effectiveness of internal c
ontrol based on the 
assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we consid
ered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit 
provides a 
reasonable basis for our opinion. 
A company's internal control over financial re
porting is a process designed by, or un
der the supervision of, the company's prin
cipal executive 
and principal financial officers, or persons 
performing similar functions, and effected 
by the company's board of directors, ma
nagement, and other 
personnel to provide reasonable 
assurance regarding the reliability of financial re
porting and the preparation of financial sta
tements for external 
purposes in accordance with generally accep
ted accounting principles. A company's in
ternal control over financial reporting inc
ludes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the main
tenance of records that, in reasonable det
ail, accurately and fairly reflect the tra
nsactions and 
dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable 
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to perm
it preparation of 
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounti
ng principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the com
pany are being 
made only in accordance with authorizations of management and 
directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance re
garding 
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
 acquisition, use, or disposition of the 
company's assets that could have a mater
ial effect on the 
financial statements. 
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over 
financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or imp
roper management 
override of controls, material misstatements due to error or frau
d may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, pr
ojections of any 
evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over fina
ncial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that
 the controls may 
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that th
e degree of compliance with the po
licies or procedures may deteri
orate. In our opinion, the Bancorp maintained, in 
all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of Dec
ember 31, 2012, 
based on the criteria established in 
Internal Control Š Integrated Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsor
ing Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission.  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Pu
blic Company Accounting Oversigh
t Board (United States), the co
nsolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2012 
of the Bancorp and our report dated February 22, 2013 expre
ssed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. 
 Cincinnati, Ohio 
February 22, 2013 To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Fifth Third Bancorp: 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
 Fifth Third Bancorp and subsidiaries (the ﬁBancorpﬂ) as of Dece
mber 31, 2012 
and 2011, and the related consolidated statements of income, compre
hensive income, equity, and cash flows for each of the three
 years in the 
period ended December 31, 2012. These consolidated financial st
atements are the responsibility of the Bancorp's management. Our
 responsibility 
is to express an opinion on these consolidat
ed financial statements based on our audits. 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the 
Public Company Accounting Oversi
ght Board (United States). Thos
e standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
 reasonable assurance about whet
her the financial statements are 
free of material 
misstatement. An audit includes examining,
 on a test basis, evidence supporting the 
amounts and disclosures in the financial st
atements. An audit 
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and sign
ificant estimates made by manag
ement, as well as evaluating the 
overall financial 
statement presentation. We believe that our audi
ts provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
In our opinion, such consolidated financ
ial statements present fairly, in all materi
al respects, the financial position of Fift
h Third Bancorp and subsidiaries at December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the results of th
eir operations and their cash flows for each of the three year
s in the period ended 
December 31, 2012, in conformity with accounting principles
 generally accepted in the United States of America. 
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Pu
blic Company Accounting Oversigh
t Board (United States), the Ba
ncorp™s 
internal control over financial reporting as of D
ecember 31, 2012, based on the criteria established in 
Internal ControlŠIntegrated Framework 
issued 
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission and our report dated February 22, 2013 expressed an unq
ualified 
opinion on the Bancorp's internal 
control over financial reporting. 
  Cincinnati, Ohio 

February 22, 2013 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
 83  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 As of December 31 ($ in mi
llions, except share data)
  2012 
2011 
Assets     Cash and due from banks
(a) $  2,441 
 2,663 
Available-for-sale and other securities
(b)   15,207 
 15,362 
Held-to-maturity securities
(c)   284 
 322 
Trading securities 
  207 
 177 
Other short-term investments
(a)   2,421 
 1,781 
Loans held for sale
(d)   2,939 
 2,954 
Portfolio loans and leases: 
     Commercial and industrial loans 
   36,038 
 30,783 
    Commercial mortgage loans
(a)   9,103 
 10,138 
    Commercial construction loans 
  698 
 1,020 
    Commercial leases  
  3,549 
 3,531 
    Residential mortgage loans
(e)   12,017 
 10,672 
    Home equity
(a)   10,018 
 10,719 
    Automobile loans
(a)   11,972 
 11,827 
    Credit card 
  2,097 
 1,978 
    Other consumer loans and leases 
  290 
 350 
Portfolio loans and leases 
  85,782 
 81,018 
Allowance for loan and lease losses
(a)   (1,854)
 (2,255)
Portfolio loans and leases, net 
  83,928 
 78,763 
Bank premises and equipment 
  2,542 
 2,447 
Operating lease equipment 
  581 
 497 
Goodwill 
  2,416 
 2,417 
Intangible assets 
  27 
 40 
Servicing rights 
  697 
 681 
Other assets(a)   8,204 
 8,863 
Total Assets
 $  121,894 
 116,967 
Liabilities  Deposits:
      Demand
 $  30,023 
 27,600 
    Interest checking 
  24,477 
 20,392 
    Savings  
  19,879 
 21,756 
    Money market 
  6,875 
 4,989 
    Other time 
  4,015 
 4,638 
    Certificates - $100,000 and over 
  3,284 
 3,039 
    Foreign office and other 
  964 
 3,296 
Total deposits 
  89,517 
 85,710 
Federal funds purchased 
  901 
 346 
Other short-term borrowings 
  6,280 
 3,239 
Accrued taxes, interest and expenses 
  1,708 
 1,469 
Other liabilities
(a)   2,639 
 3,270 
Long-term debt
(a)   7,085 
 9,682 
Total Liabilities
   108,130 
 103,716 
Equity
  Common stock(f)   2,051 
 2,051 
Preferred stock(g)
   398 
 398 
Capital surplus 
  2,758 
 2,792 
Retained earnings 
  8,768 
 7,554 
Accumulated other comprehensive income 
  375 
 470 
Treasury stock 
  (634)
 (64)
Total Bancorp shareholders™ equity 
  13,716 
 13,201 
Noncontrolling interests 
  48 
 50 
Total Equity
   13,764 
 13,251 
Total Liabilities and Equity
 $  121,894 
 116,967 
(a) At December 31, 2012
 and 2011, includes 
$0 and $30 of cash, 
$0 and $7 of other short-term investments, 
$50
 and $50 of commercial mortgage loans, 
$0 and $223 of home equity loans, 
$0 and $259 of automobile loans, 
($5)
 and ($10) of ALLL, 
$3 and $4 of other assets, 
$0 and $4 of other liabilities, 
$0 and $191 of long-term debt from consolidated VIEs that are included in 
their respective captions. See Note 10. 
(b) Amortized cost of 
$14,571 
and $14,614 at 
December 31, 2012
 and 2011, respectively. 
(c) Fair value of 
$284 
and $322 at 
December 31, 2012
 and 2011, respectively.  
(d) Includes $2,856 
and $2,751 of residential mortgage loans held for sale measured at fair value at 
December 31, 2012
, and 2011, respectively. 
(e) Includes $76 
and $65
 of residential mortgage loans measured at fair value at 
December 31, 2012
 and 2011, respectively. 
(f) Common shares: Stated value $2.22 per share; authorized 2,000,000,000; outstanding at
 December 31, 2012 Œ 882,152,057 (excludes 41,740,524 treasury shares) 
and December 
31, 2011 Œ 919,804,436 (excludes 4,088,145 treasury shares). 
(g) 317,680 shares of undesignated no par value preferred stock are auth
orized of which none had been issued; 8.5% non-cumulative S
eries G convertible (into 2,159.
8272 common shares) perpetual 
preferred stock with a $25,000 liquidat
ion preference: 46,000 authorized, 
16,450 
issued and outstanding at 
December 31, 2012
 and 2011.  
 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
  84  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 For the years ended December 31 ($ 
in millions, except per share data)
 2012 
2011 
2010 
Interest Income
  Interest and fees on loans and leases
 $ 3,574 
 3,613 
 3,823 
Interest on securities 
 529 
 600 
 658 
Interest on other short-term investments 
 4 
 5 
 8 
Total interest income 
 4,107 
 4,218 
 4,489 
Interest Expense
 Interest on deposits
  216 
 352 
 591 
Interest on other short-term borrowings 
 8 
 4 
 4 
Interest on long-term debt 
 288 
 305 
 290 
Total interest expense 
 512 
 661 
 885 
Net Interest Income
  3,595 
 3,557 
 3,604 
Provision for loan and lease losses 
 303 
 423 
 1,538 
Net Interest Income After Provision for Loan and Lease Losses
  3,292 
 3,134 
 2,066 
Noninterest Income
 Mortgage banking net revenue
  845 
 597 
 647 
Service charges on deposits 
 522 
 520 
 574 
Corporate banking revenue 
 413 
 350 
 364 
Investment advisory revenue 
 374 
 375 
 361 
Card and processing revenue 
 253 
 308 
 316 
Other noninterest income 
 574 
 250 
 406 
Securities gains, net 
 15 
 46 
 47 
Securities gains, net - non-qualifying hedges on mortgage servicing rights 
 3 
 9 
 14 
Total noninterest income 
 2,999 
 2,455 
 2,729 
Noninterest Expense
 Salaries, wages and incentives
  1,607 
 1,478 
 1,430 
Employee benefits  371 
 330 
 314 
Net occupancy expense 
 302 
 305 
 298 
Technology and communications 
 196 
 188 
 189 
Card and processing expense 
 121 
 120 
 108 
Equipment expense 
 110 
 113 
 122 
Other noninterest expense 
 1,374 
 1,224 
 1,394 
Total noninterest expense 
 4,081 
 3,758 
 3,855 
Income Before Income Taxes 
  2,210 
 1,831 
 940 
Applicable income tax expense  
 636 
 533 
 187 
Net Income 
  1,574 
 1,298 
 753 
Less: Net income attributab
le to noncontrolling interests 
 (2)
 1 
 - 
Net Income Attributable to Bancorp
  1,576 
 1,297 
 753 
Dividends on preferred stock  
 35 
 203 
 250 
Net Income Available to Common Shareholders 
 $ 1,541 
 1,094 
 503 
Earnings Per Share
 $1.69  1.20 
0.63 
Earnings Per Diluted Share
 $1.66  1.18 
0.63 
Average common shares - basic 
  904,425,226 
 906,460,550 
 790,852,185 
Average common shares - diluted 
  945,554,102 
 949,545,420 
 799,381,153 
Cash dividends declared per share 
 $0.36 
 0.28 
0.04 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
 85  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
  2012 
2011 
2010
Net income 
$ 1,574 
 1,298 
  753
Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax: 
      Unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities: 
       Unrealized holding (losses) gains on available-for-sale securities arising during period 
  (63)
 201 
  143
  Reclassification adjustment for ne
t gains included in net income 
  (10)
 (37)
  (38)
 Unrealized gains on cash flow hedge derivatives: 
       Unrealized holding gains on cash flow hedge derivatives arising during period 
  24 
 58 
  1  Reclassification adjustment for ne
t gains included in net income 
  (54)
 (45)
  (39)
 Defined benefit pension plans: 
       Net actuarial loss (gain) arising during period 
  8 
 (21)
  6Other comprehensive (loss) income 
  (95)
 156 
  73
Comprehensive income 
  1,479 
 1,454 
  826
 Less: Comprehensive income attrib
utable to noncontrolling interests 
  (2)
 1 
  -Comprehensive income attributable to Bancorp 
$ 1,481 
 1,453 
  826
    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 
  86  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  Bancorp Shareholders™ Equity 
        Accumulated 
 Total 
        Other  Bancorp 
Non- 
   Common 
PreferredCapital RetainedComprehensive
Treasury 
Shareholders™ 
Controlling
Total 
($ in millions, except per share data) 
 Stock Stock Surplus 
Earnings Income  
Stock Equity 
Interests 
Equity 
Balance at December 31, 2009
 $  1,779 
 3,609 
 1,743 
 6,326 
 241 
 (201)
 13,497
 13,497
Net income 
  753 
 753
 753
Other comprehensive income 
  73 
 73
 73
Cash dividends declared: 
     Common stock at $0.04 per share 
  (32)
 (32)
 (32)
    Preferred stock 
  (205)
 (205)
 (205)
Accretion of preferred dividends, Series F 
  45 
 (45)
 - -Stock-based compensation expense 
  45 
 (1)
 44
 44
Stock-based awards issued or exercised,  
     including trea
sury shares issued 
  (10)
 6 
 (4)
 (4)
Restricted stock grants 
  (62)
 62 
 - -Impact of cumulative effect of change in 
     accounting principle 
  (77)
 (77)
 (77)
Noncontrolling interest 
  - 29 
 29
Other   (1)
 3 
 2 2Balance at December 31, 2010
   1,779 
 3,654 
 1,715 
 6,719 
 314 
 (130)
 14,051
 29 
 14,080
Net income 
  1,297 
 1,297
 1 
 1,298
Other comprehensive income 
  156 
 156
 156
Cash dividends declared: 
     Common stock at $0.28 per share 
  (257)
 (257)
 (257)
    Preferred stock 
  (50)
 (50)
 (50)
Issuance of common stock 
  272 
 1,376 
 1,648
 1,648
Redemption of preferred shares, Series F 
  (3,408)
 (3,408)
 (3,408)
Redemption of stock warrant 
  (280)
 (280)
 (280)
Accretion of preferred dividends, Series F 
  153 
 (153)
 - -Stock-based compensation expense 
  52 
 52
 52
Stock-based awards issued or exercised,  
     including trea
sury shares issued 
  (15)
 7 
 (8)
 (8)
Restricted stock grants 
  (58)
 58 
 - -Noncontrolling interests 
  - 21 
 21
Other   (1)
 2 
 (2)
 1 
 - (1)
 (1)
Balance at December 31, 2011
   2,051 
 398 
 2,792 
 7,554 
 470 
 (64)
 13,201
 50 
 13,251
Net income 
  1,576 
 1,576
 (2)
 1,574
Other comprehensive loss
   (95)
 (95)
 (95)
Cash dividends declared:
      Common stock at 
$0.36 per share
   (325)
 (325)
 (325)
    Preferred stock
   (35)
 (35)
 (35)
Shares acquired for treasury
   (23)
 (627)
 (650)
 (650)
Stock-based compensation expense
   63 
 63
 63
Stock-based awards issued or exercised, 
      including trea
sury shares issued
   (27)
 7 
 (20)
 (20)
Restricted stock grants
   (47)
 47 
 - -Other   (2)
 3 
 1 1Balance at December 31, 2012 
$  2,051 
 398 
 2,758 
 8,768 
 375 
 (634)
 13,716
 48 
 13,764
  See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
   87  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
  2012 
2011 
2010 
Operating Activities
  Net income  
$ 1,574 
1,298 
753 
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net 
cash  provided by operating activities: 
  Provision for loan and lease losses 
  303 
423 
1,538 
 Depreciation, amortization and accretion 
  531 
455 
457 
 Stock-based compensation expense 
  69 
59 
64 
 Provision for deferred income taxes 
  271 
437 
176 
 Realized securities gains 
  (69)
(58)
(60)
 Realized securities gains Œ non-qualifying hedges on mortgage servicing rights 
 (10)(24)
(14)
 Realized securities losses 
  54 
12 
13 
 Realized securities losses Œ non-qualifying hedges on mortgage servicing rights 
  7 
15 
 - 
 Provision for mortgage servicing rights 
  103 
242 
36 
 Net (gains) losses on sales of loans and fair value adjustments on loans held for sale 
  (278)
(145)
114 
 Bank premises and equipment impairment  
  21 
 - 
 - 
 Capitalized mortgage servicing rights 
  (305)
(236)
(297)
 Loss on extinguishment on TruPS 
 26 
-  - 
Loss on extinguishment on debt 
  143 
 - 
 - 
Proceeds from sales of loans held for sale 
  22,044 
14,783 
18,634 
Loans originated for sale, net of repayments 
  (21,439)
(15,199)
(18,231)
Dividends representing return on equity method investments 
  45 
13 
31 
Gain on Vantiv, Inc. IPO and sale of Vantiv, Inc. shares 
  (272)
 - 
 - 
Net change in:
   Trading securities 
  (28)
115 
67 
 Other assets 
 4 (67)
9  Accrued taxes, interest and expenses 
  1 
79 
(63)
 Other liabilities 
  (238)
164 
78 
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
   2,557 
2,366 
3,305 
Investing Activities
  Sales: 
  Available-for-sale securities 
  2,521 
2,471 
2,578 
 Loans   275 
371 
538 
 Disposal of bank premises and equipment 
  13 
35 
10 
Repayments / maturities: 
  Available-for-sale securities 
  4,100 
3,502 
4,620 
 Held-to-maturity securities 
  36 
29 
1 Purchases: 
  Available-for-sale securities 
  (6,813)
(5,689)
(5,218)
 Held-to-maturity securities 
  - 
 - 
(1)
 Bank premises and equipment 
  (362)
(319)
(224)
Restricted cash from the initial consolidation of variable interest entities 
  - 
 - 
63 
Proceeds from sale and dividends representi
ng return of equity method investments 
  393 
63 
8 Net change in: 
  Other short-term investments 
  (640)
(267)
1,861 
 Loans and leases 
  (5,930)
(5,422)
(2,507)
 Operating lease equipment 
  (126)
(59)
(21)
Net Cash (Used in) Provided by Investing Activities
   (6,533)
(5,285)
1,708 
Financing Activities
  Net change in: 
  Core deposits 
  3,529 
5,264 
784 
 Certificates - $100,000 and over, including other foreign office 
  279 
(1,202)
(3,429)
 Federal funds purchased 
  555 
67 
97 
 Other short-term borrowings 
  3,041 
1,665 
38 
Dividends paid on common shares 
  (309)
(192)
(32)
Dividends paid on preferred shares 
  (35)
(50)
(205)
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 
  523 
1,500 
14 
Repayment of long-term debt 
  (3,159)
(1,607)
(2,473)
Repurchases of treasury shares and related forward contracts 
  (650)
 - 
 - 
Issuance of common shares
   - 
1,648 
 - 
Redemption of preferred shares, Series F
   - 
(3,408)
 - 
Redemption of stock warrant
   - 
(280)
 - 
Capital contributions from noncontrolling interests
   - 
21 
30 
Other   (20)
(3)
 4 
Net Cash Provided By (Used In) Financing Activities
   3,754 
3,423 
(5,172)
(Decrease) Increase in Cash and Due from Banks
   (222)
 504 
 (159)
Cash and Due from Banks at Beginning of Period
   2,663 
2,159 
2,318 
Cash and Due from Banks at End of Period
 $ 2,441 
2,663 
2,159 
See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 2 contains cash payments related to interest and income taxes in addition 
to noncash investing and financing activities.
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  88  Fifth Third Bancorp 
1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING POLICIES 
Nature of Operations 
Fifth Third Bancorp, an Ohio cor
poration, conducts its principal 
lending, deposit gathering, transaction processing and service 

advisory activities through its 
banking and non-banking subsidiaries 
from banking centers located throughout the Midwestern and 
Southeastern regions of the United States.   
 Basis of Presentation 
The Consolidated Financial Statements
 include the accounts of the 
Bancorp and its majority-owned su
bsidiaries and VIEs in which the 
Bancorp has been determined to be the primary beneficiary. Other 
entities, including certain joint ventures, in which the Bancorp has 
the ability to exercise significan
t influence over operating and 
financial policies of the investee, but upon which the Bancorp does 

not possess control, are accounted for by the equity method and not 

consolidated. Those entities in which the Bancorp does not have the 

ability to exercise significant infl
uence are generally carried at the 
lower of cost or fair value. Inte
rcompany transactions and balances 
have been eliminated. Certain prior period data has been reclassified 
to conform to current period presentation.  
 Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. 
GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions 

that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and 
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those 
estimates.  Cash and Due From Banks 
Cash and due from banks consist of currency and coin, cash items 

in the process of collection and due from banks. Currency and coin 
includes both U.S. and foreign currency owned and held at Fifth 
Third offices and that is in-transit
 to the FRB. Cash items in the 
process of collection include checks and drafts that are drawn on 

another depository institution or the FRB that are payable 

immediately upon presentation in the U.S. Balances due from banks 

include non-interest bearing balances that are funds on deposit at 

other depository institutions or the FRB. 
 Securities 
Securities are classified as held-to-maturity, available-for-sale or 

trading on the date of purchase. Only those securities which 

management has the intent and ability to hold to maturity are 

classified as held-to-maturity and reported at amortized cost. 

Securities are classified as avail
able-for-sale when, in management™s 
judgment, they may be sold in response to, or in anticipation of, 
changes in market conditions. Secu
rities are classified as trading 
when bought and held principally 
for the purpose of selling them in 
the near term. Available-for-sale secu
rities are reported at fair value 
with unrealized gains and losses, net of related deferred income 

taxes, included in other comprehe
nsive income. Trading securities 
are reported at fair value with un
realized gains and losses included 
in noninterest income. The fair valu
e of a security is determined 
based on quoted market prices. If 
quoted market prices are not 
available, fair value is determined based on quoted prices of similar 

instruments or discounted cash flow
 models that incorporate market 
inputs and assumptions includin
g discount rates, prepayment 
speeds, and loss rates. Realized 
securities gains or losses are 
reported within noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements 

of Income. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific 

identification method.  
Available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities with 
unrealized losses are reviewed quarterly for possible OTTI. For debt 

securities, if the Bancorp intends to sell the debt security or will 

more likely than not be required to sell the debt security before 

recovery of the entire amortized cost basis, then an OTTI has 
occurred. However, even if the Banc
orp does not intend to sell the 
debt security and will not likely be required to sell the debt security 
before recovery of its entire amortized cost basis, the Bancorp must 
evaluate expected cash flows to be received and determine if a credit 

loss has occurred. In the event of a credit loss, the credit component 

of the impairment is recognized 
within noninterest income and the 
non-credit component is recognized through other comprehensive 

income. For equity securities, th
e Bancorp™s management evaluates 
the securities in an unrealized lo
ss position in the available-for-sale 
portfolio for OTTI on the basis of the duration of the decline in 
value of the security and severity
 of that decline as well as the 
Bancorp™s intent and ability to hold these securities for a period of 

time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in the market 

value. If it is determined that th
e impairment on an equity security is 
other than temporary, an impair
ment loss equal to the difference 
between the carrying value of the 
security and its fair value is 
recognized within noninterest income.  
 Portfolio Loans and Leases Basis of Accounting 
Portfolio loans and leases are ge
nerally reported at the principal 
amount outstanding, net of unearned income, deferred loan fees 

and costs, and any direct prin
cipal charge-offs. Direct loan 
origination fees and costs are deferred and the net amount is 
amortized over the estimated life of the related loans as a yield 
adjustment. Interest income is r
ecognized based on the principal 
balance outstanding computed using the effective interest method.  
Loans acquired by the Bancorp through a purchase business 
combination are recorded at fair value as of the acquisition date. 

The Bancorp does not carry over the acquired company™s ALLL, 

nor does the Bancorp add to its existing ALLL as part of purchase 

accounting. Purchased loans are evaluated for evidence of credit 
deterioration at acquisition and recorded at their initial fair value. 

For loans acquired with no evidence of credit deterioration, the fair 

value discount or premium is amortized over the contractual life of 

the loan as an adjustment to yiel
d. For loans acquired with evidence 
of credit deterioration, the Bancorp determines at the acquisition 

date the excess of the loan™s cont
ractually required payments over all 
cash flows expected to be collected 
as an amount that should not be 
accreted into interest income (nonaccretable difference). The 
remaining amount representing the 
difference in the expected cash 
flows of acquired loans and the 
initial investment in the acquired 
loans is accreted into interest in
come over the remaining life of the 
loan or pool of loans (accretable yi
eld). Subsequent to the purchase 
date, increases in expected cash 
flows over those expected at the 
purchase date are recognized prospectively as interest income over 

the remaining life of the loan. The present value of any decreases in 
expected cash flows resulting directly from a change in the 
contractual interest rate are recognized prospectively as a reduction 

of the accretable yield. The present value of any decreases in 

expected cash flows after the purcha
se date as a result of credit 
deterioration is recognized by 
recording an ALLL or a direct 
chargeoff. Subsequent to the purc
hase date, the methods utilized to 
estimate the required ALLL are si
milar to originated loans. Loans 
carried at fair value, mortgage loans held for sale and loans under 
revolving credit agreements are ex
cluded from the scope of this 
guidance on loans acquired with deteriorated credit quality.  
The Bancorp™s lease portfolio consists of both direct financing 
and leveraged leases. Direct financing leases are carried at the 

aggregate of lease payments plus estimated residual value of the 

leased property, less unearned income. Interest income on direct 

financing leases is recognized over the term of the lease to achieve a 

constant periodic rate of retu
rn on the outstanding investment. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  89  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Leveraged leases are carried at the aggregate of lease payments (less 
nonrecourse debt payments) plus es
timated residual value of the 
leased property, less unearned income. Interest income on leveraged 

leases is recognized over the term 
of the lease to achieve a constant 
rate of return on the outstanding 
investment in the lease, net of the 
related deferred income tax liability,
 in the years in which the net 
investment is positive.  Nonaccrual Loans 

When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, the accrual of interest, 

amortization of loan premium, a
ccretion of loan discount, and 
amortization/accretion of deferred net loan fees are discontinued 

and all previously accrued and unp
aid interest is charged against 
income. Commercial loans are pla
ced on nonaccrual status when 
there is a clear indication that the borrower™s cash flows may not be 
sufficient to meet payments as they 
become due. Such loans are also 
placed on nonaccrual status when the principal or interest is past 

due 90 days or more, unless the loan
 is both well secured and in the 
process of collection. The Bancor
p classifies residential mortgage 
loans that have principal and in
terest payments that have become 
past due 150 days as nonaccrual unless the loan is both well secured 

and in the process of collection. Residential mortgage loans may 

stay on nonperforming status for an extended time as the 
foreclosure process typically lasts
 longer than 180 days. Typically 
home equity loans are reported on nonaccrual status if principal or 

interest has been in default for 180 
days or more unless the loan is 
both well secured and in the process of collection. Residential 

mortgage, home equity, automobile and other consumer loans and 

leases that have been modified 
in a TDR and subsequently become 
past due 90 days are placed on nonaccrual status unless the loan is 

both well secured and in the process of collection. Commercial and 
credit card loans that have been modified in a TDR are classified as 
nonaccrual unless such loans have sustained repayment 

performance of six months or grea
ter and are reasonably assured of 
repayment in accordance with the restructured terms. Well secured 

loans are collateralized by perfecte
d security interests in real and/or 
personal property for which the Bancorp estimates proceeds from 

sale would be sufficient to reco
ver the outstanding principal and 
accrued interest balance of the lo
an and pay all costs to sell the 
collateral. The Bancorp considers a lo
an in the process of collection 
if collection efforts or legal action is proceeding and the Bancorp 

expects to collect funds sufficien
t to bring the loan current or 
recover the entire outstanding 
principal and accrued interest 
balance.  Nonaccrual commercial loans, othe
r than those modified in a 
TDR and nonaccrual credit card loan
s, are generally accounted for 
on the cost recovery method. The Bancorp believes the cost 
recovery method is appropriate for nonaccrual commercial loans 
and nonaccrual credit card loans because the assessment of 

collectability of the remaining reco
rded investment of these loans 
involves a high degree of subject
ivity and uncertainty due to the 
nature or absence of underlying 
collateral. Under the cost recovery 
method, any payments received are applied to reduce principal. 

Once the entire recorded investment is collected, additional 

payments received are treated as recoveries of amounts previously 
charged-off until recovered in full,
 and any subsequent payments are 
treated as interest income. Nonaccrual residential mortgage loans 

and other nonaccrual consumer loans are generally accounted for on 

the cash basis method. The Bancorp believes the cash basis method 

is appropriate for nonaccrual residential mortgage and other 

nonaccrual consumer loans because such loans have generally been 

written down to estimated collater
al values and the collectability of 
the remaining investment involves 
only an assessment of the fair 
value of the underlying collateral, which can be measured more 
objectively with a lesser degree of uncertainty than assessments of 
typical commercial loan collateral. Under the cash basis method, 
interest income is recognized upon cash receipt to the extent to 

which it would have been accrued 
on the loan's remaining balance at 
the contractual rate. Nonaccrual lo
ans may be returned to accrual 
status when all delinquent interest
 and principal payments become 
current in accordance with the loan
 agreement or when the loan is 
both well-secured and in the process of collection.  
Commercial loans on nonaccrual status, including those 
modified in a troubled debt rest
ructuring, as well as criticized 
commercial loans with aggregate borrower relationships exceeding 

$1 million, are subject to an individual review to identify charge-

offs. The Bancorp does not have an established delinquency 
threshold for partially or fully charging off commercial loans. 
Residential mortgage, home equity and credit card loans that have 

principal and interest payments that have become past due 180 days 

are charged off to the ALLL, unless such loans are both well-

secured and in the process of collection. Automobile and other 

consumer loans and leases that ha
ve principal and interest payments 
that have become past due 120 days
 are charged off to the ALLL, 
unless such loans are both well-secured and in the process of 
collection.  Restructured Loans 
A loan is accounted for as a TDR if the Bancorp, for economic or 
legal reasons related to the borrowe
r™s financial difficulties, grants a 
concession to the borrower that it would not otherwise consider. A 

TDR typically involves a modificati
on of terms such as a reduction 
of the stated interest rate or face amount of the loan, a reduction of 

accrued interest, or an extension of
 the maturity date(s) at a stated 
interest rate lower than the curren
t market rate for a new loan with 
similar risk. The Bancorp does not consider the bankruptcy court™s 
discharge of the borrower™s debt a concession when the discharged 
debt is not reaffirmed, and as such these loans are classified as 

TDRs only if one or more of the previously mentioned concessions 

are granted. The Bancorp measures the impairment loss of a TDR 

based on the difference between the original loan™s carrying amount 

and the present value of expected 
future cash flows discounted at 
the original, effective yield of the loan. Residential mortgage loans, 

home equity loans, automobile 
loans and other consumer loans 
modified as part of a TDR are maintained on accrual status, 
provided there is reasonable assurance of repayment and of 

performance according to the modified terms based upon a current, 

well-documented credit evaluati
on. Commercial loans and credit 
card loans modified as part of a TDR are maintained on accrual 

status provided there is a sustain
ed payment history of six-months 
or greater prior to the modificati
on in accordance with the modified 
terms and all remaining contractual payments under the modified 
terms are reasonably assured of collection. TDRs of commercial 
loans and credit cards that do not have a sustained payment history 

of six months or greater in accordance with their modified terms 

remain on nonaccrual status until 
a six-month payment history is 
sustained. During the nonaccrual period, TDRs of commercial loans 

are accounted for using the cash basis method for income 

recognition, provided that full
 repayment of principal under the 
modified terms of the loan is reasonably assured.   
 Impaired Loans 

A loan is considered to be impaired when, based on current 

information and events, it is probable that the Bancorp will be 

unable to collect all amounts due (including both principal and 

interest) according to the contract
ual terms of the loan agreement. 
For loans modified in a TDR, th
e contractual terms of the loan 
agreement refer to the terms specified in the original loan 
agreement. A loan restructured in a TDR is no longer considered 
impaired in years after the restructuring if the restructuring 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  90  Fifth Third Bancorp 
agreement specifies a rate equal to
 or greater than the rate the 
Bancorp was willing to accept at the time of the restructuring for a 

new loan with comparable risk an
d the loan is not impaired based 
on the terms specified by the restructuring agreement. Refer to the 
ALLL section for discussion rega
rding the Bancorp™s methodology 
for identifying impaired loans and determination of the need for a 

loss accrual.  Loans Held for Sale 
Loans held for sale primarily re
present conforming fixed rate 
residential mortgage loans originated
 or acquired with the intent to 
sell in the secondary market and commercial loans and other 

consumer loans that management ha
s an active plan to sell. Loans 
held for sale may be carried at the lower of cost or fair value, or 

carried at fair value where the Ba
ncorp has elected the fair value 
option of accounting under U.S. 
GAAP. The Bancorp has elected to 
measure residential mortgage loans originated as held for sale under 

the fair value option. For loans in which the Bancorp has not 
elected the fair value option, the lower of cost or fair value is 
determined at the individual loan level. 
The fair value of residential mortgage loans held for sale is 
estimated based upon mortgage-backe
d securities prices and spreads 
to those prices or, for certain ARM loans, discounted cash flow 

models that may incorporate the an
ticipated portfolio composition, 
credit spreads of asset-backed securities with similar collateral, and 

market conditions. The anticipate
d portfolio composition includes 
the effects of interest rate spreads and discount rates due to loan 
characteristics such as the state in which the loan was originated, the 

loan amount and the ARM margin. These fair value marks are 

recorded as a component of noninterest income in mortgage 

banking net revenue. The Bancorp generally has commitments to 

sell residential mortgage loans held for sale in the secondary market. 

Gains or losses on sales are recognized in mortgage banking net 

revenue upon delivery. 
Management™s intent to sell residential mortgage loans 
classified as held for sale may change over time due to such factors 

as changes in the overall liquidity in markets or changes in 

characteristics specific to certain 
loans held for sale. Consequently, 
these loans may be reclassified to
 loans held for investment and, 
thereafter, reported within the Ba
ncorp™s residential mortgage class 
of portfolio loans and leases. In such cases, the residential mortgage 

loans will continue to be measured at
 fair value, which is based on 
mortgage-backed securities prices, in
terest rate risk and an internally 
developed credit component.  
Loans held for sale are placed
 on nonaccrual status consistent 
with the Bancorp™s nonaccrual policy 
for portfolio loans and leases.  
 Other Real Estate Owned 
OREO, which is included in other assets, represents property 
acquired through foreclosure or ot
her proceedings and is carried at 
the lower of cost or fair value, less costs to sell. All OREO property 

is periodically evaluated for imp
airment and decreases in carrying 
value are recognized as reductions
 in other noninterest income in 
the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
 ALLL 
The Bancorp disaggregates its por
tfolio loans and leases into 
portfolio segments for purposes of determining the ALLL. The 

Bancorp™s portfolio segments include commercial, residential 

mortgage, and consumer. The Banc
orp further disaggregates its 
portfolio segments into classes for purposes of monitoring and 

assessing credit quality based on certain risk characteristics. Classes 
within the commercial portfolio 
segment include commercial and 
industrial, commercial mortgage owner-occupied, commercial 

mortgage nonowner-
occupied, commercial construction, and 
commercial leasing. The residential 
mortgage portfolio segment is 
also considered a class. Classes within the consumer portfolio 
segment include home equity, automobile, credit card, and other 
consumer loans and leases. For an
 analysis of the Bancorp™s ALLL 
by portfolio segment and credit 
quality information by class, see 
Note 6.  
The Bancorp maintains the ALLL to absorb probable loan and 
lease losses inherent in its portfolio segments. The ALLL is 

maintained at a level the Bancorp considers to be adequate and is 

based on ongoing quarterly assessments and evaluations of the 

collectability and historical loss experience of loans and leases. 

Credit losses are charged and recoveries are credited to the ALLL. 

Provisions for loan and lease losses are based on the Bancorp™s 

review of the historical credit lo
ss experience and such factors that, 
in management™s judgment, deserve consideration under existing 
economic conditions in estimating probable credit losses. The 

Bancorp™s strategy for credit risk management includes a 

combination of conservative exposure limits significantly below 

legal lending limits and conserva
tive underwriting, documentation 
and collections standards. The strategy also emphasizes 

diversification on a geographic, indu
stry and customer level, regular 
credit examinations and quarte
rly management reviews of large 
credit exposures and loans experi
encing deterioration of credit 
quality.  
The Bancorp™s methodology for determining the ALLL is 
based on historical loss rates, current credit grades, specific 

allocation on loans modified in a TDR and impaired commercial 

credits above specified thresholds and other qualitative adjustments. 

Allowances on individual commerc
ial loans, TDRs and historical 
loss rates are reviewed quarterly and adjusted as necessary based on 
changing borrower and/or collat
eral conditions and actual 
collection and charge-off experience. An unallocated allowance is 
maintained to recognize the imprecision in estimating and 

measuring losses when evaluating allowances for individual loans or 

pools of loans.  
Larger commercial loans included
 within aggregate borrower 
relationship balances exceeding $1 
million that exhibit probable or 
observed credit weaknesses, as well as loans that have been 
modified in a TDR, are subject to
 individual review for impairment. 
The Bancorp considers the current value of collateral, credit quality 

of any guarantees, the guaranto
r™s liquidity and willingness to 
cooperate, the loan structure, an
d other factors when evaluating 
whether an individual loan is impaired. Other factors may include 

the industry and geographic region of the borrower, size and 

financial condition of the borrower, cash flow and leverage of the 

borrower, and the Bancorp™s evaluation of the borrower™s 
management. When individual lo
ans are impaired, allowances are 
determined based on management™s estimate of the borrower™s 

ability to repay the loan given the availability of collateral and other 

sources of cash flow, as well as an evaluation of legal options 

available to the Bancorp. Allo
wances for impaired loans are 
measured based on the present value 
of expected future cash flows 
discounted at the loan™s effective interest rate, fair value of the 

underlying collateral or readily obs
ervable secondary market values. 
The Bancorp evaluates the collectability of both principal and 
interest when assessing the need for a loss accrual.   
Historical credit loss rates are 
applied to commercial loans that 
are not impaired or are impaired
, but smaller than the established 
threshold of $1 million and thus not subject to specific allowance 

allocations. The loss rates are derived from a migration analysis, 

which tracks the historical net charge-off experience sustained on 

loans according to their internal risk grade. The risk grading system 
utilized for allowance analysis purpos
es encompasses ten categories.  
Homogenous loans and leases in the residential mortgage and 
consumer portfolio segments are not individually risk graded. 

Rather, standard credit scoring systems and delinquency monitoring 

are used to assess credit risks, and allowances are established based 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  91  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 on the expected net charge-offs. 
Loss rates are based on the trailing twelve month net charge-off history by loan category. Historical loss 

rates may be adjusted for certain pr
escriptive and qualitative factors 
that, in management™s judgment, are necessary to reflect losses 
inherent in the portfolio. Factors that management considers in the 
analysis include the effects of the national and local economies; 

trends in the nature and volume 
of delinquencies, charge-offs and 
nonaccrual loans; changes in loan mix; credit score migration 

comparisons; asset quality trends
; risk management and loan 
administration; changes in the in
ternal lending policies and credit 
standards; collection practices; an
d examination results from bank 
regulatory agencies and the Bancorp™s internal credit reviewers.  
The Bancorp™s primary market areas for lending are the 
Midwestern and Southeastern regions of the Unites States. When 

evaluating the adequacy of allowances, consideration is given to 

these regional geographic concentrations and the closely associated 

effect changing economic conditions have on the Bancorp™s 

customers.  In the current year, the Bancor
p has not substantively changed 
any material aspect to its overall approach to determining its ALLL 
for any of its portfolio segments. There have been no material 
changes in criteria or estimation techniques as compared to prior 

periods that impacted the determination of the current period 

ALLL for any of the Bancorp™s portfolio segments.  
 Reserve for Unfunded Commitments 
The reserve for unfunded commitmen
ts is maintained at a level 
believed by management to be sufficient to absorb estimated 

probable losses related to unfunded credit facilities and is included 

in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The 

determination of the adequacy of the reserve is based upon an 

evaluation of the unfunded credit facilities, including an assessment 

of historical commitment utilization 
experience, credit risk grading 
and historical loss rates based on credit grade migration. This 
process takes into consideration the same risk elements that are 
analyzed in the determination of the adequacy of the Bancorp™s 

ALLL, as discussed above. Net adjustments to the reserve for 

unfunded commitments are included in other noninterest expense 

in the Consolidated Statements of Income.
  Loan Sales and Securitizations 
The Bancorp periodically sells loan
s through either securitizations 
or individual loan sales in acco
rdance with its investment policies. 
The Bancorp recognizes the sale 
of loans in accordance with the 
sale accounting criteria under ASC Topic 860 Œ 
Accounting for 
Transfers of Financial Assets
. The sold loans are removed from the 
balance sheet and a net gain or loss 
is recognized in the Bancorp™s 
Consolidated Financial Statements at the time of sale. The Bancorp 
typically isolates the loans throug
h the use of a VIE and thus is 
required to assess whether the entity holding the sold or securitized 

loans is a VIE and whether the Ba
ncorp is the primary beneficiary 
and therefore consolidator of that VIE. If the Bancorp holds the 

power to direct activities most significant to the economic 

performance of the VIE and has the obligation to absorb losses or 

right to receive benefits that coul
d potentially be significant to the 
VIE, then the Bancorp will generally be deemed the primary 
beneficiary of the VIE. When the Bancorp previously sold loans 
into isolated trusts or conduits, it obtained one or more 

subordinated tranches or other residual interests in these trusts or 

conduits, as well as the servicing 
rights to the underlying loans. 
Effective with the adoption of amended VIE consolidation 

guidance on January 1, 2010, the Bancorp was required to 

consolidate these VIEs, and accordingly, the underlying loans and 
other assets and liabilities of these VIEs were included in the 
Bancorp™s Consolidated Balance Sheets. See Note 10 for further 
information on these consolidated VIEs.  
The Bancorp™s loan sales and 
securitizations are generally 
structured with servicing retained. As a result, servicing rights 

resulting from residential mortgage loan sales are initially recorded 

at fair value and subsequently amortized in proportion to and over 
the period of estimated net servicing revenues and are reported as a 
component of mortgage banking ne
t revenue, in the Consolidated 
Statements of Income. Servicing rights are assessed for impairment 

monthly, based on fair value, with temporary impairment 

recognized through a valuat
ion allowance and permanent 
impairment recognized through a wr
ite-off of the servicing asset 
and related valuation allowance. Key economic assumptions used in 

measuring any potential impairment of
 the servicing rights include 
the prepayment speeds of the underlying loans, the weighted-
average life, the discount rate, the weighted-average coupon and the 

weighted-average default rate, as applicable. The primary risk of 

material changes to the value of the servicing rights resides in the 

potential volatility in the economic assumptions used, particularly 

the prepayment speeds. The Bancorp 
monitors risk and adjusts its 
valuation allowance as necessary to adequately reserve for 

impairment in the servicing portfo
lio. For purposes of measuring 
impairment, the mortgage servicing ri
ghts are stratified into classes 
based on the financial asset type (fixed rate vs. adjustable rate) and 

interest rates. Fees received for servicing loans owned by investors 

are based on a percentage of the outstanding monthly principal 

balance of such loans and are incl
uded in noninterest income in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income 
as loan payments are received. 
Costs of servicing loans are char
ged to expense as incurred.  
 Reserve for Representation and Warranty Provisions 
Conforming residential mortgage loans sold to unrelated third 
parties are generally sold with representation and warranty 

provisions. A contractual liability aris
es only in the event of a breach 
of these representations and warranties and, in general, only when a 

loss results from the breach. The Bancorp may be required to 
repurchase any previously sold loan or indemnify (make whole) the 
investor or insurer for which the representation or warranty of the 

Bancorp proves to be inaccurate, incomplete or misleading. The 

Bancorp establishes a residential mortgage repurchase reserve 
related to various representati
ons and warranties that reflects 
management™s estimate of losses base
d on a combination of factors.  
The Bancorp™s estimation process requires management to 
make subjective and complex judg
ments about matters that are 
inherently uncertain, such as, futu
re demand expectations, economic 
factors and the specific characteristics of the loans subject to 

repurchase. Such factors incorpor
ate historical investor audit and 
repurchase demand rates, appeals success rates, historical loss 

severity, and any additional information obtained from the GSEs 

regarding future mortgage repurchase
 and file request criteria. At the 
time of a loan sale, the Bancorp records a representation and 

warranty reserve at the estimated fair value of the Bancorp™s 
guarantee and continually updates the reserve during the life of the 
loan as losses in excess of the reserve become probable and 

reasonably estimable. The provision 
for the estimated fair value of 
the representation and warranty guarantee arising from the loan 

sales is recorded as an adjustmen
t to the gain on sale, which is 
included in other noninterest income at the time of sale. Updates to 

the reserve are recorded in other noninterest expense.  
  Bank Premises and Equipment 
Bank premises and equipment, including leasehold improvements, 
are carried at cost less accumulat
ed depreciation and amortization. 
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method based on 

estimated useful lives of the assets for book purposes, while 

accelerated depreciation is used for income tax purposes. 

Amortization of leasehold improvements is computed using the 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  92  Fifth Third Bancorp 
straight-line method over the lives 
of the related leases or useful 
lives of the related assets, whichever is shorter. The Bancorp tests 

its long-lived assets for impairment through both a probability-

weighted and primary-asset approach whenever events or changes in 
circumstances dictate. Maintenance, repairs and minor 
improvements are charged to noninterest expense in the 

Consolidated Statements of Income as incurred. 

 Derivative Financial Instruments 
The Bancorp accounts for its derivati
ves as either assets or liabilities 
measured at fair value through adjustments to accumulated other 

comprehensive income and/or current earnings, as appropriate. On 

the date the Bancorp enters into a derivative contract, the Bancorp 

designates the derivative instrument as
 either a fair value hedge, cash 
flow hedge or as a free-standing derivative instrument. For a fair 
value hedge, changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument 
and changes in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability or of an 

unrecognized firm commitment attrib
utable to the hedged risk are 
recorded in current period net income. For a cash flow hedge, 

changes in the fair value of the de
rivative instrument, to the extent 
that it is effective, are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive 
income and subsequently reclassi
fied to net income in the same 
period(s) that the hedged transaction impacts net income. For free-
standing derivative instruments, ch
anges in fair values are reported 
in current period net income.  
Prior to entering into a hedge transaction, the Bancorp 
formally documents the relationshi
p between hedging instruments 
and hedged items, as well as the risk management objective and 

strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. This process 

includes linking all derivative instru
ments that are designated as fair 
value or cash flow hedges to specific assets or liabilities on the 
balance sheet or to specific forecasted transactions, along with a 
formal assessment at both inception of the hedge and on an 

ongoing basis as to the effectivene
ss of the derivative instrument in 
offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item. If 

it is determined that the derivative instrument is not highly effective 

as a hedge, hedge accounting is discontinued and the adjustment to 

fair value of the derivative instrument is recorded in net income.  
 Income Taxes 
The Bancorp estimates income tax expense based on amounts 

expected to be owed to the vari
ous tax jurisdictions in which the 
Bancorp conducts business. On 
a quarterly basis, management 
assesses the reasonableness of its e
ffective tax rate based upon its 
current estimate of the amount and components of net income, tax 
credits and the applicable statutor
y tax rates expected for the full 
year. The estimated income tax expense is recorded in the 

Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are determined using 
the balance sheet method and the net deferred tax asset or liability is 

reported in other assets and accrued taxes, interest and expenses in 

the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Under this method, the net 

deferred tax asset or liability is based on the tax effects of the 
differences between the book and tax 
basis of assets and liabilities, 
and reflects enacted changes in tax rates and laws. Deferred tax 

assets are recognized to the extent they exist and are subject to a 

valuation allowance based on management™s judgment that 

realization is more likely than not. This analysis is performed on a 

quarterly basis and includes an evaluation of all positive and 

negative evidence to determine whether realization is more likely 

than not. 
Accrued taxes represent the net estimated amount due to 
taxing jurisdictions and are reported
 in accrued taxes, interest and 
expenses in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Bancorp 

evaluates and assesses the relative risks and appropriate tax 

treatment of transactions and f
iling positions after considering 
statutes, regulations, judicial precedent and other information and 
maintains tax accruals consistent wi
th its evaluation of these relative 
risks and merits. Changes to the 
estimate of accrued taxes occur 
periodically due to changes in tax rates, interpretations of tax laws, 
the status of examinations being conducted by taxing authorities 
and changes to statutory, judic
ial and regulatory guidance that 
impact the relative risks of tax po
sitions. These changes, when they 
occur, can affect deferred taxes an
d accrued taxes as well as the 
current period™s income tax expense and can be significant to the 

operating results of the Bancorp. Any interest and penalties incurred 

in connection with income taxes are recorded as a component of 

income tax expense in the Consolidated Financial Statements. For 
additional information on income taxes, see Note 19. 
 Earnings Per Share 
Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income 
available to common shareholders by the weighted-average number 

of shares of common stock outstand
ing during the period. Earnings 
per diluted share is computed by dividing adjusted net income 
available to common shareholders by the weighted-average number 

of shares of common stock and common stock equivalents 

outstanding during the period. D
ilutive common stock equivalents 
represent the assumed conversion of
 dilutive convertible preferred 
stock, the exercise of dilutive 
stock-based awards and warrants and 
the dilutive effect of the settlement of outstanding forward 

contracts.  
The Bancorp calculates earnings per share pursuant to the two-
class method. The two-class method is an earnings allocation 

formula that determines earnings
 per share separately for common 
stock and participating securities according to dividends declared 

and participation rights in undist
ributed earnings. For purposes of 
calculating earnings per share under the two-class method, restricted 

shares that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends are considered 

participating securities until vested. While the dividends declared per 
share on such restricted shares ar
e the same as dividends declared 
per common share outstanding, the dividends recognized on such 

restricted shares may be less because dividends paid on restricted 

shares that are expected to be forfeited are reclassified to 

compensation expense during the 
period when forfeiture is 
expected.   Goodwill 
Business combinations entered into 
by the Bancorp typically include 
the acquisition of goodwill. U.S. GAAP requires goodwill to be 

tested for impairment at the Bancorp™s reporting unit level on an 

annual basis, which for the Bancorp is September 30, and more 

frequently if events or circumst
ances indicate that there may be 
impairment. The Bancorp has determ
ined that its segments qualify 
as reporting units under U.S. GAAP.  
Impairment exists when a report
ing unit™s carrying amount of 
goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. In testing goodwill for 

impairment, U.S. GAAP permits the Bancorp to first assess 

qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not 

that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. 

If, after assessing the totality of events and circumstances, the 

Bancorp determines it is not more likely than not that the fair value 
of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, then performing 
the two-step impairment test would be unnecessary. However, if the 

Bancorp concludes otherwise, it wo
uld then be required to perform 
the first step (Step 1) of the goodwill impairment test, and continue 

to the second step (Step 2), if 
necessary. Step 1 of the goodwill 
impairment test compares the fair v
alue of a reporting unit with its 
carrying amount, including goodwill. If the carrying amount of the 

reporting unit exceeds its fair value, Step 2 of the goodwill 
impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment 
loss, if any. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  93  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The fair value of a reporting unit is the price that would be 
received to sell the unit as a whole in an orderly transaction between 

market participants at the measurement date. Since none of the 

Bancorp™s reporting units are publicly traded, individual reporting 
unit fair value determinations cannot be directly correlated to the 
Bancorp™s stock price. To determine the fair value of a reporting 

unit, the Bancorp employs an income-based approach, utilizing the 

reporting unit™s forecasted cash 
flows (including a terminal value 
approach to estimate cash flows beyond the final year of the 

forecast) and the reporting unit™s 
estimated cost of equity as the 
discount rate. Additionally, the 
Bancorp determines its market 
capitalization based on the average of the closing price of the 
Bancorp™s stock during the month including the measurement date, 
incorporating an additional cont
rol premium, and compares this 
market-based fair value measuremen
t to the aggregate fair value of 
the Bancorp™s reporting units in order to corroborate the results of 

the income approach.  
When required to perform Step 2, the Bancorp compares the 
implied fair value of a reporting unit™s goodwill with the carrying 

amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount exceeds the implied 
fair value, an impairment loss e
qual to that excess amount is 
recognized. A recognized impairment loss cannot exceed the 

carrying amount of that goodwill and cannot be reversed in future 

periods even if the fair value of the reporting unit subsequently 

recovers. During Step 2, the Bancorp determines the implied fair value of 
goodwill for a reporting unit by assigning the fair value of the 

reporting unit to all of the assets an
d liabilities of that unit (including 
any unrecognized intangible assets) 
as if the reporting unit had been 
acquired in a business combination. The excess of the fair value of 

the reporting unit over the amou
nts assigned to its assets and 
liabilities is the implied fair v
alue of goodwill. This assignment 
process is only performed for purposes of testing goodwill for 

impairment. The Bancorp does not adjust the carrying values of 

recognized assets or liabilities (oth
er than goodwill, if appropriate), 
nor recognize previously unrecogn
ized intangible assets in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements as a result of this assignment 
process. Refer to Note 8 for further information regarding the 

Bancorp™s goodwill. 
  Fair Value Measurements 
The Bancorp measures certain fina
ncial assets and liabilities at fair 
value in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which defines fair value as the 

price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a 
liability in an orderly transaction be
tween market participants at the 
measurement date. Valuation techniques the Bancorp uses to 

measure fair value include the ma
rket approach, income approach 
and cost approach. The market appr
oach uses prices or relevant 
information generated by market tr
ansactions involving identical or 
comparable assets or liabilities. 
The income approach involves 
discounting future amounts to a si
ngle present amount and is based 
on current market expectations a
bout those future amounts. The 
cost approach is based on the amount that currently would be 
required to replace the service capacity of the asset. 
U.S. GAAP establishes a fair v
alue hierarchy, which prioritizes 
the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into 

three broad levels. The fair value hi
erarchy gives the highest priority 
to quoted prices in active market
s for identical assets or liabilities 
(Level 1) and the lowest priority 
to unobservable inputs (Level 3). A 
financial instrument™s categorization
 within the fair value hierarchy 
is based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the 
instrument™s fair value measurement. 
The three levels within the fair 
value hierarchy are described as follows:    

 Level 1
 - Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities that the Bancorp has the ability 

to access at the measurement date. 

 Level 2
 - Inputs other than quoted prices included within 
Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either 

directly or indirectly. Level 2 
inputs include: quoted prices 
for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted 

prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets 

that are not active; inputs other than quoted prices that are 

observable for the asset or liability; and inputs that are 

derived principally from or corroborated by observable 
market data by correlation or other means. 
 
Level 3
 - Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability for 
which there is little, if any, market activity at the 

measurement date. Unobservable inputs reflect the 

Bancorp™s own assumptions
 about what market 
participants would use to pric
e the asset or liability. The 
inputs are developed based on the best information 
available in the circumstances, which might include the 
Bancorp™s own financial data such as internally developed 

pricing models and discounted cash flow methodologies, 

as well as instruments for which the fair value 

determination requires significant management judgment. 

 The Bancorp's fair value measur
ements involve various valuation 
techniques and models, which involve inputs that are observable, 
when available. Valuation techniques and parameters used for 
measuring assets and liabilities are reviewed and validated by the 

Bancorp on a quarterly basis. Addi
tionally, the Bancorp monitors 
the fair values of significant asse
ts and liabilities using a variety of 
methods including the evaluation of pricing runs and exception
 reports based on certain analytical 
criteria, comparison to previous 
trades and overall review and asse
ssments for reasonableness. See 
Note 26 for further information on fair value measurements.  
 Stock-Based Compensation  
In accordance with U.S. GAAP, the Bancorp recognizes 

compensation expense for the grant-
date fair value of stock-based 
awards that are expected to vest over the requisite service period. 

All awards, both those with cliff vesting and graded vesting, are 
expensed on a straight-line basis. Awards to employees that meet 
eligible retirement status are expensed immediately. As 

compensation expense is recognized, a deferred tax asset is recorded 

that represents an estimate of the future tax deduction from exercise 

or release of restrictions. At the time awards are exercised, 

cancelled, expire, or restrictions
 are released, the Bancorp may be 
required to recognize an adjustmen
t to income tax expense for the 
difference between the previously 
estimated tax deduction and the 
actual tax deduction realized. For further information on the 
Bancorp™s stock-based compensation plans, see Note 23. 
 Other 
Securities and other property held by Fifth Third Investment 

Advisors, a division of the Banc
orp™s banking subsidiary, in a 
fiduciary or agency capacity are not
 included in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheets because such items are not assets of the subsidiaries. 

Investment advisory revenue in the Consolidated Statements of 

Income is recognized on the accrual basis. Investment advisory 

service revenues are recognized monthly based on a fee charged per 

transaction processed and/or a fee charged on the market value of 

average account balances associated with individual contracts.  
The Bancorp recognizes revenue from its card and processing 
services on an accrual basis as such services are performed, 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  94  Fifth Third Bancorp 
recording revenues net of certain costs (primarily interchange fees 
charged by credit card associations) not controlled by the Bancorp.  
The Bancorp purchases life insurance policies on the lives of 
certain directors, officers and employees and is the owner and 
beneficiary of the policies. The Ba
ncorp invests in these policies, 
known as BOLI, to provide an efficient form of funding for long-

term retirement and other employee benefits costs. The Bancorp 

records these BOLI policies within other assets in the Consolidated 

Balance Sheets at each policy™s respect
ive cash surrender value, with 
changes recorded in other noninterest income in the Consolidated 

Statements of Income. 
Other intangible assets consist of core deposit intangibles, 
customer lists, non-compete agreements and cardholder 
relationships. Other intangible assets are amortized on either a 

straight-line or an accelerated basi
s over their estimated useful lives. 
The Bancorp reviews other intangible assets for impairment 

whenever events or changes in circ
umstances indicate that carrying 
amounts may not be recoverable. 
Securities sold under repurchase agreements are accounted for 
as collateralized financing transacti
ons and included in other short-
term borrowings in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at the amounts 
which the securities were sold plus accrued interest. 
 Acquisitions of treasury stock ar
e carried at cost. Reissuance of 
shares in treasury for acquisitions
, exercises of stock-based awards 
or other corporate purposes is recorded based on the specific 

identification method. Advertising costs are generally expensed as incurred.  Accounting and Reporting Developments 
Reconsideration of Effective Control for Repurchase Agreements 
In April 2011, the FASB issued amended guidance clarifying when 

the Bancorp can recognize a sale upon the transfer of financial 
assets subject to a repurchase agreement. That determination is 
based, in part, on whether the Bancorp has maintained effective 

control over the transferred financial assets. Under the amended 

guidance, the FASB concluded that the assessment of effective 

control should focus on a transf
eror™s contractual rights and 
obligations with respect to tran
sferred financial assets, not on whether the transferor has the practical ability to perform in 

accordance with those rights or obligations. The amended guidance 
was effective for transactions th
at occur in interim and annual 
periods beginning on or after December 15, 2011. The Bancorp 

accounts for all of its existing 
repurchase agreements as secured 
borrowings and therefore, the adoption of this amended guidance 

on January 1, 2012 did not have a material impact on the Bancorp™s 

Consolidated Financial Statements.  

 
Amendments to Achieve Common Fair
 Value Measurement and Disclosure 
Requirements in U.S. GAAP and IFRSs 
In May 2011, the FASB issued amended guidance that resulted in 

common fair value measurement and disclosure requirements 

between U.S. GAAP and IFRS. Under the amended guidance, the 

Bancorp is required to expand its disclosure for fair value 

instruments categorized within Level 
3 of the fair value hierarchy to 
include (1) the valuation processes used by the Bancorp; and (2) a 
narrative description of the sensitiv
ity of the fair value measurement 
to changes in unobservable inputs for recurring fair value 
measurements and the interrelationships between those 

unobservable inputs, if any. The Bancorp is also required to disclose 

the categorization by level of the f
air value hierarchy for items that 
are not measured at fair value in the statement of financial position 

but for which the fair value is required to be disclosed (e.g. portfolio 

loans). The amended guidance is to be applied prospectively and was 

effective for interim and annual periods beginning after December 
15, 2011. The amended guidance was adopted by the Bancorp on 
January 1, 2012 and the required disclosures are included in Note 26. 

 
Presentation of Comprehensive Income 
In June 2011, the FASB issued amended guidance on the 
presentation requirements for comprehensive income. The amended 

guidance requires the Bancorp to present total comprehensive 

income, the components of net income and the components of 

other comprehensive income on the 
face of the financial statements, 
either in a single continuous statement of comprehensive income or 

in two separate but consecutive
 statements. The amended guidance 
does not change the items that must be reported in other 
comprehensive income or when an item of other comprehensive 
income must be reclassified to net income. The amended guidance 

was effective for interim and a
nnual periods beginning after 
December 15, 2011. This amended guidance was adopted by the 

Bancorp on January 1, 2012 and has been applied retrospectively. 

The Bancorp presents comprehensive income in two separate but 

consecutive statements, and has included the requirements of the 

amended guidance in the Consolidated Statements of 
Comprehensive Income.  
Testing Goodwill for Impairment 
In September 2011, the FASB issued amended guidance on testing 

goodwill for impairment. The amended guidance simplifies how the 

Bancorp is required to test goodwill for impairment and permits the 

Bancorp to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is 

more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If, after asse
ssing the totality of events or 
circumstances, the Bancorp determines it is not more likely than not 

that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, 

then performing the two-step impairment test would be 

unnecessary. However, if the Bancorp concludes otherwise, it would 

then be required to perform Step 
1 of the goodwill impairment test, 
and continue to Step 2, if necessary. The amended guidance was 

effective for annual and interim goodwill impairment tests 
performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011 and 
was adopted by the Bancorp on January 1, 2012. The results of the 

Bancorp™s most recent annual impairment test are included in Note 

8. 
 
Disclosures about Offsetting Assets and Liabilities  

In December 2011, the FASB issued amended guidance related to 

disclosures about offsetting assets and liabilities. The amended 
guidance requires the Bancorp to disclose both gross information 
and net information about financial instruments, including 

derivatives, and transactions eligib
le for offset in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheets as well as financial instruments and transactions 

subject to agreements similar to a master netting arrangement. The 

amended guidance will be applied retr
ospectively and is effective for 
fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning on or 

after January 1, 2013. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  95  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 2.  SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION
   Cash payments related to interest and inco
me taxes, in addition to noncash investin
g and financing activities, are presented 
in the following table 
for the years ended December 31: 
    ($ in millions) 
2012 
2011
2010 
Cash payments: Interest 
$524 
658
920 
Income taxes 
383 
102
79 
 Transfers:
    Portfolio loans to held for sale loans 
 62 
 143
 650 
Held for sale loans to portfolio loans 
 77 
 32
 160 
Portfolio loans to OREO 
 272 
 342
 662 
Held for sale loans to OREO 
 23 
 43
 68 
 Impact of change in accounting principle:
 Decrease in available-fo
r-sale securities, net 
 - 
 - 941 
Increase in portfolio loans 
 - 
 - 2,217 
Decrease in demand deposits  
 - 
 - 18 
Increase in other short-term borrowings 
 - 
 - 122 
Increase in long-term debt 
 - 
 - 1,344 
3. RESTRICTIONS ON CASH AND DIVIDENDS 
The FRB, under Regulation D, requires that banks hold cash in 
reserve against deposit liabilities, known as the reserve requirement.  

The reserve requirement is calculated based on a two-week average 

of daily net transaction account deposits as defined by the FRB and 

may be satisfied with vault cash. Wh
en vault cash is not sufficient to 
meet the reserve requirement, the remaining amount must be 
satisfied with funds held at the FRB. At the years ended 2012 and 

2011, the Bancorp™s banking subsidiary reserve requirement was 

$1.5 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively. Vault cash was not 

sufficient to meet the total reserve requirement; therefore, for the 

years ended 2012 and 2011, the Bancorp™s banking subsidiary 

satisfied the remaining reserve requirement with $1.1 billion and 

$265 million, respectively, of the Ba
ncorp™s total deposit at the FRB. 
The Bancorp™s total deposit at the FRB is held in short-term 
investments in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
The dividends paid by the Bancorp™s banking subsidiary are 
subject to regulations and limitations
 prescribed by state and federal 
supervisory agencies. Due to the regulations and limitations, the 

Bancorp™s banking subsidiary was prohibited from declaring 

dividends without also obtaining prior approval from supervisory 

agencies at December 31, 2012 an
d 2011. The Bancorp™s banking 
subsidiary paid the Bancorp™s no
nbank subsidiary holding company 
$2.0 billion in dividends during both of the years ended December 

31, 2012 and 2011. The Bancorp™s nonbank subsidiary holding 

company paid the Bancorp $2.0 billion and $1.7 billion in dividends 

during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
In 2008, the Bancorp sold $3.4 billion in Series F senior 
preferred stock and related warrants to the U.S. Treasury under the 

terms of the CPP. The terms included certain restrictions on 
common stock dividends, which required the U.S. Treasury™s 
consent to increase common stock dividends for a period of three 

years from the date of investment unless the preferred shares were 

redeemed in whole or the U.S. Treasury transferred all of the 

preferred shares to a third party. Also, no dividends could be 

declared or paid on the Bancorp™s common stock unless all accrued 

and unpaid dividends had been paid on the preferred shares and 

certain other outstanding securi
ties. Additionally, the Bancorp™s 
ability to pay dividends on its common stock was limited by its need 
to maintain adequate capital leve
ls, comply with safe and sound 
banking practices and meet regulatory expectations.  
On February 2, 2011, the Bancorp redeemed all 136,320 shares 
of its Series F senior preferred stock held by the U.S. Treasury 

under the CPP totaling $3.4 billion. As such, the Bancorp had no 

restrictions on common stock divide
nds pursuant to the CPP as of 
December 31, 2012 and 2011. See Note 22 for further information 
on the redemption of the preferred shares. 
In February 2009, the FRB advised bank holding companies 
that safety and soundness considerations required that dividends be 

substantially reduced or eliminated. Subsequently, the FRB indicated 

that increased capital distributions would generally not be 

considered prudent in the absence 
of a well-developed capital plan 
and a capital position that would r
emain strong even under adverse 
conditions. In November 2010, the FRB issued guidelines to 
provide a common, conservative a
pproach to ensure bank holding 
companies hold adequate capital 
to maintain ready access to 
funding, continue operations and meet their obligations to creditors 

and counterparties, and continue to serve as credit intermediaries, 

even in adverse conditions.  These guidelines required the nineteen 

bank holding companies that participated in the 2009 SCAP to 

participate in the CCAR process.
  The CCAR process required the 
submission of a comprehensive capital plan that assumed a 
minimum planning horizon of 
nine quarters under various 
economic scenarios. The mandatory elements of the capital plan 

among others are an assessment of the expected use and sources of 

capital over the planning horizon, a description of all planned capital 

actions over the planning horizon,
 a discussion of any expected 
changes to the Bancorp™s business plan that are likely to have a 

material impact on its capital adequacy or liquidity, a detailed 

description of the Bancorp™s proce
ss for assessing capital adequacy 
and the Bancorp™s capital policy. 
In March 2012, the FRB announced it had completed the 2012 
CCAR and for bank holding companies that proposed capital 

distributions in their plan, the FRB either objected to the plan or 

provided a non objection whereby the FRB concurred with the 

proposed 2012 capital distributions.  The FRB indicated to the 

Bancorp that it did not object to the following capital actions: a 

continuation of its quarterly co
mmon dividend, the redemption of certain TruPS and the repurchase of common shares in an amount 
equal to any after-tax gains realized by the Bancorp from the sale of 

Vantiv, Inc. common shares by either the Bancorp or Vantiv, Inc. 

The FRB indicated to the Bancorp that it did object to other 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  96  Fifth Third Bancorp 
elements of its capital plan, incl
uding increases in its quarterly 
common dividend and the initiation of common share repurchases. 

The Bancorp resubmitted its capital 
plan to the FRB in the second 
quarter of 2012. The resubmitted plan included capital actions and 
distributions for the covered period through March 31, 2013 that 
were substantially similar to those included in the original 

submission, with adjustments primar
ily reflecting the change in the 
expected timing of capital action
s and distributions relative to the 
timing assumed in the original submission. On August 21, 2012, the 

Bancorp announced the FRB did not object to the Bancorp™s 

resubmitted capital plan which included the potential increase of the 

quarterly common stock dividend and the repurchases of common 
shares of up to $600 million through the first quarter of 2013. 
On October 9, 2012, the FRB pu
blished final stress testing rules that implement section 165(i)(1) and (i)(2) of the Dodd-Frank 

Act. The 19 bank holding companies that participated in the 2009 

SCAP and subsequent CCAR, which includes Fifth Third, are 

subject to the final stress testing rules. The rules require both 

supervisory and company-run stress tests, which provide forward-

looking information to supervisors to help assess whether 
institutions have sufficient capi
tal to absorb losses and support 
operations during adverse economic conditions.  
The FRB launched the 2013 stress testing program and CCAR 
on November 9, 2012. The CCAR requires bank holding companies 

to submit a capital plan in addition 
to their stress testing results. The 
mandatory elements of the capital plan are an assessment of the 

expected use and sources of capital over the planning horizon, a 

description of all planned capital ac
tions over the planning horizon, 
a discussion of any expected change
s to the Bancorp™s business plan 
that are likely to have a material impact on its capital adequacy or 

liquidity, a detailed description of the Bancorp™s process for 

assessing capital adequacy and the Bancorp™s capital policy. The 

stress testing results and capital plan were submitted by the Bancorp 

to the FRB on January 7, 2013. The FRB™s review of the capital plan will assess the 
comprehensiveness of the capital plan, the reasonableness of the 

assumptions and the analysis underlying the capital plan. 

Additionally, the FRB will review 
the robustness of the capital 
adequacy process, the capital policy and the Bancorp™s ability to 
maintain capital above the minimu
m regulatory capital ratios and 
above a Tier 1 common ratio of 5 percent on a pro forma basis 

under expected and stressful conditions throughout the planning 

horizon. The FRB will also assess the Bancorp™s strategies for 

addressing proposed revisions to
 the regulatory capital framework 
agreed upon by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision and 

requirements arising from the Dodd-Frank Act.  
The FRB has indicated that it expects to disclose on March 7, 
2013 its estimates of participating institutions results under the FRB 

supervisory stress scenario, includ
ing capital results, which assume 
that all banks take certain consistently applied future capital actions.  

The FRB has indicated that it expects to disclose on March 14, 2013 

its estimates of participating institutions results under the FRB 

supervisory severe stress scenarios 
including capital results based on 
each company™s own base scenario
 capital actions. The FRB will 
also issue an objection or non-obj
ection to each participating 
institution™s capital plan submitted under CCAR. Additionally, as a 

CCAR institution, Fifth Third is required to disclose our own 

estimates of results under the supervisory severely adverse scenario 

using the same consistently applied capital actions noted above, and 

to provide information related to risks included in its stress testing; 

a summary description of the met
hodologies used; estimates of 
aggregate pre-provision net revenue, losses, provisions, and pro 
forma capital ratios at the end 
of the forward-looking planning 
horizon of at least nine quarters; and an explanation of the most 

significant causes of changes in
 regulatory capital ratios. These 
disclosures are required by March 31, 2013 and are to be sent to the 

FRB and publicly disclosed.  
 4. SECURITIES 
The following table provides the amortized cost, fair value and 
unrealized gains and losses for the major categories of the ava
ilable-for-sale and 
held-to-maturity securities portfolios as of December 31:
          2012 
 2011 
   Amortized Unrealized
Unrealized
Fair  
Amortized Unrealized 
Unrealized
Fair  
($ in millions) 
Cost Gains 
Losses 
Value 
Cost Gains 
Losses 
Value 
Available-for-sale and other: 
                 U.S. Treasury and government agencies
 $ 41 
 - 
 - 
 41 
171 
- - 171 
 U.S. Government sponsored agencies 
 1,730 
 181 
 - 
 1,911 
1,782 
180 
- 1,962 
 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 
 203 
 9 
 - 
 212 
96 
5 - 101 
 Agency mortgage-backed securities
(a)  8,403 
 345 
 (18)
 8,730 
9,743 
542 
(1)
10,284 
 Other bonds, notes and debentures 
 3,161 
 119 
 (3)
 3,277 
1,792 
29 
(9)
1,812 
 Other securities
(b)  1,033 
 3 
 - 
 1,036 
1,030 
2 - 1,032 
Total $ 14,571 
 657 
 (21)
 15,207 
14,614 
758 
(10)
15,362 
Held-to-maturity:
  Obligations of states and political subdivisions
 $ 282 
 - 
 - 
 282 
320 
- - 320 
 Other debt securities 
 2 
 - 
 - 
 2 
2 - - 2 Total $ 284 
 - 
 - 
 284 
322 
- - 322 
(a) Includes interest-only mortgage backed securities of 
$408 
and $110  as of
 December 31, 2012
 and 2011, respectively, recorded at fair value with 
fair value changes recorded in securities gains, net 
and securities gains, net Œ non-qualifying hedges on mortgage ser
vicing rights in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  
(b) Other securities consist of FHLB and FRB restricted stock holdings of 
$497
 and 
$347
, respectively, at 
December 31, 2012
 and, $497 and $345, respectively, at December 31, 2011, that are 
carried at cost, and certain mutual fund and equity security holdings.
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  97  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following table presents realized gains 
and losses that were recognized in income 
from available-for-sale securities for th
e years ended
December 31:     ($ in millions)
  2012 
 2011 
 2010  
Realized gains 
$75 
 75 
 69 
 Realized losses 
 (2) -  (10)
 OTTI  (58) (19)
 (3)
 Net realized gains 
$15 56 
 56 
   Trading securities totaled $207 million as of December 31, 2012, 
compared to $177 million at December 31, 2011. Gross realized 

gains on trading securities were $2 million for the year ended 

December 31, 2012, and $1 million for the years ended 2011 and 

2010. Gross realized losses on trading 
securities were immaterial to 
the Bancorp for the year ended December 31, 2012 and $7 million 
and $1 million for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, 
respectively. Net unrealized gains on trading securities were $1 
million and $5 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, 

and immaterial to the Bancorp at December 31, 2010.  
At December 31, 2012 and 2011 securities with a fair value of 
$12.6 billion and $13.3 billion, respectively, were pledged to secure 

borrowings, public deposits, trust fu
nds, derivative contracts and for other purposes as required or permitted by law. 
 The expected maturity distribution of the 
Bancorp™s agency mortgage-backed securities 
and the contractual maturity distribution
 of the Bancorp™s 
available-for-sale and other and held-to-maturity securities as of December 
31, 2012 are shown in the following table: 
      Available-for-Sale & Other
 Held-to-Maturity 
($ in millions) 
Amortized Cost Fair Value 
Amortized Cost 
Fair Value 
Debt securities:
(a)          Under 1 year $555 
 566 
 73 
 73 
  1-5 years 8,865 
 9,356 
 185 
 185 
  5-10 years 
2,223 
 2,280 
 20 
 20 
  Over 10 years 
1,895 
 1,969 
 6  6  Other securities 
1,033 
 1,036 
 -  - Total 
$14,571 
 15,207 
 284 
 284 
 (a) Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities when there exists a right to call or prepay obligations with or withou
t call or prepayment penalties. 
 The following table provides the fair va
lue and gross unrealized losses on available-fo
r-sale securities in an unrealized loss 
position, aggregated b
y investment category and length of time the 
individual securities have been in a co
ntinuous unrealized loss position as of Decem
ber 31:      Less than 12 months 
12 months or more 
Total 
  Unrealized 
  Unrealized 
 Unrealized 
($ in millions) 
Fair Value 
Losses 
Fair Value 
Losses 
Fair Value 
Losses 
2012 
           U.S. Treasury and government agencies 
$ - 
 - - 
 - 
 - 
 -U.S. Government sponsored agencies
  - 
 - - 
 - 
 - 
 -Obligations of states and political subdivisions
  - 
 - - 
 - 
 - 
 -Agency mortgage-backed securities
  1,784 
 (18)
 - 
 - 
 1,784 
 (18)
Other bonds, notes and debentures
  454 
 (3)
 - 
 - 
 454 
(3)Other securities
  1 
 - - 
 - 
 1 
 -Total $ 2,239 
 (21)
 - 
 - 
 2,239 
 (21)
2011 
 U.S. Treasury and government agencies
 $70 
-1 - 71 
-U.S. Government sponsored agencies 
- -- - - -Obligations of states and political subdivisions 
- -2 - 2 -Agency mortgage-backed securities 
34 
(1)
6 - 40 
(1)
Other bonds, notes and debentures 
523 
(4)
38 
(5)
561 
(9)
Other securities 
6 -- - 6 -Total 
$633 
(5)
47 
(5)
680 
(10)
 Other-Than-Temporary Impairments 
The Bancorp recognized $58 million,
 $19 million, and $3 million of 
OTTI, included in securities gains,
 net and securities gains, net Œ 
non-qualifying hedges on mortgage servicing rights, in the 

Bancorp™s Consolidated Statements of Income, on its available-for-
sale and other debt securities during the years ended December 31, 
2012,  2011, and 2010, respectively,
 and no OTTI was recognized 
on held-to-maturity debt securities for the years ended December 

31, 2012, 2011, and 2010. Less than 
one percent of unrealized losses 
in the available-for-sale securities
 portfolio were represented by 
non-rated securities at December 31, 2012 and 2011. 
During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, the 
Bancorp did not recognize OTTI on any of its available-for-sale 
equity securities. In addition, 
for the year ended December 31, 2010, 
OTTI recognized on available-for-sale equity securities was 

immaterial to the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements.   
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  98  Fifth Third Bancorp 
5. LOANS AND LEASES 
The Bancorp diversifies its loan and lease portfolio by offering a 
variety of loan and lease products with various payment terms and 
rate structures. Lending activities
 are concentrated within those 
states in which the Bancorp has banking centers and are primarily 

located in the Midwestern and Sout
heastern regions of the United 
States. The Bancorp™s commercial loan
 portfolio consists of lending 
to various industry types. Management periodically reviews the 
performance of its loan and lease products to evaluate whether they 
are performing within acceptable interest rate and credit risk levels 
and changes are made to underwri
ting policies and procedures as 
needed. The Bancorp maintains an 
allowance to absorb loan and 
lease losses inherent in the port
folio. For further information on credit quality and the ALLL, see Note 6. 
 The following table provides a summary of the total loans an
d leases classified by primary purpose as of December 31:  
      ($ in millions) 
2012 
 2011 
 Loans and leases held for sale: 
     Commercial and industrial loans  
$39 
 45 
  Commercial mortgage loans 
13  76 
  Commercial construction loans 
9  17 
  Residential mortgage loans 
2,856 
 2,802 
  Other consumer loans and leases 
22 
 14 
 Total loans and leases held for sale 
$2,939 
 2,954 
 Portfolio loans and leases: 
     Commercial and industrial loans  
$36,038 
 30,783 
  Commercial mortgage loans 
9,103 
 10,138 
  Commercial construction loans 
698 
 1,020 
  Commercial leases 
3,549 
 3,531 
 Total commercial loans and leases 
49,388 
 45,472 
  Residential mortgage loans 
12,017 
 10,672 
  Home equity 
10,018 
 10,719 
  Automobile loans 
11,972 
 11,827 
  Credit card 
2,097 
 1,978 
  Other consumer loans and leases  
290 
 350 
 Total consumer loans and leases 
36,394 
 35,546 
 Total portfolio loans and leases 
$85,782 
 81,018 
     Total portfolio loans and leases 
are recorded net of unearned 
income, which totaled $758 million as of December 31, 2012 and 

$942 million as of December 31, 2011. Additionally, portfolio loans 

and leases are recorded net of unamortized premiums and 

discounts, deferred loan fees and costs, and fair value adjustments 
(associated with acquired loans or 
loans designated as fair value 
upon origination) which totaled a net premium of $73 million and 
$45 million as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The Bancorp™s FHLB and FRB advances are generally secured by 
loans. The Bancorp had loans of 
$12.7 billion and $11.2 billion at 
December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, pledged at the FHLB, 
and loans of $30.9 billion and 
$26.8 billion at December 31, 2012 
and 2011, respectively, pledged at the FRB.   
 The following table presents a summary of the total loans and le
ases owned by the Bancorp as of and for the years ended Decembe
r 31:              90 Days Past Due 
 Net 
  Balance 
 and Still Accruing 
 Charge-Offs 
($ in millions) 
 2012 
 2011 
 2012 
 2011 
  2012 
 2011 
 Commercial and industrial loans 
$ 36,077 
30,828 
$1 4 $ 165 276 
Commercial mortgage loans 
 9,116 10,214 
 22 
3  99 
195 
Commercial construction loans 
 707 
1,037 
 1 1  25 
85 
Commercial leases 
 3,549 
3,531 
  - 
 - 
 8 (2)
Residential mortgage loans 
 14,873 13,474 
 75 
79 
 122 173 
Home equity loans 
 10,018 
10,719 
 58 
74 
 157 220 
Automobile loans 
 11,972 
11,827 
 8 9  31 53 
Credit card 
 2,097 
1,978 
 30 
30 
 74 
98 
Other consumer loans and leases 
 312 
364 
  - 
 - 
 23 
74 
Total loans and leases 
$ 88,721 
83,972 
$195 200 
$ 704 
1,172 
Less: Loans held for sale 
$ 2,939 
2,954 
  Total portfolio loans and leases 
$ 85,782 
81,018 
     The Bancorp engages in commerc
ial and consumer lease products 
primarily related to the financ
ing of commercial equipment and 
automobiles. The Bancorp had $3.0 
billion of direct financing leases 
and $1.3 billion of leveraged leases at December 31, 2012 compared 
to $2.9 billion and $1.7 billion, respectively, at December 31, 2011. 
Pre-tax income from leveraged 
leases for 2012 was $37 million 
compared to pre-tax income in 2011 of $33 million. The tax effect 

of this income was a benefit of $6 million in 2012 and an expense of 

$10 million in 2011.   
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  99  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  The components of the investment in lease financing at December 31: 
   ($ in millions)
  2012 
 2011 
 Rentals receivable, net of principal and interest on nonrecourse debt 
$ 3,543 
3,757 
Estimated residual valu
e of leased assets 
 760 
772 
Initial direct cost, net of amortization 
 16 16 
Gross investment in lease financing 
 4,319 
4,545 
Unearned income  (758)(942)
Net investment in lease financing
(a) $ 3,561 
3,603 
(a) The accumulated allowance for uncollectible minimum lease payments was 
$67 million
 and $79 million at 
December 31, 2012 
and 2011, respectively.
 The Bancorp periodically reviews residual values associated with its 
leasing portfolio. Declines in residu
al values that are deemed to be 
other-than-temporary are recognized as a loss. The Bancorp 

recognized $9 million and $4 million of residual value write-downs 

related to commercial leases for the years ended December 31, 2012 

and 2011, respectively. The residual
 value write-downs related to 
commercial leases are recorded in corporate banking revenue in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income. The Bancorp recognized no 
residual value write-downs relating to consumer automobile leases 
in 2012 and 2011. At December 31, 2012, the minimum future lease 

payments receivable for each of the years 2013 through 2017 was 

$612 million, $593 million, $472 million, $389 million and $312 

million, respectively. 
6. CREDIT QUALITY AND THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN AND LEASE LOSSES 
The Bancorp disaggregates ALLL balances and transactions in the ALLL by portfolio segment. Credit quality related disclosures f
or loans and 
leases are further disaggregated by class. 
  Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses
   The following tables summarize transacti
ons in the ALLL by portfolio segment:
             For the year ended December 31, 2012
    Residential       ($ in millions) 
 Commercial
 Mortgage 
Consumer 
Unallocated 
Total 
Transactions in the ALLL: 
            Balance at January 1
 $  1,527
 227 
 365 
 136 
  2,255
  Losses charged off 
  (358)
 (129)
 (350)
 - 
 (837)
 Recoveries of losses previously charged off 
  61 7 
 65 
 - 
 133
 Provision for loan and lease losses 
  6 124 
 198 
 (25)
 303
Balance at December 31
 $  1,236
 229 
 278 
 111 
 1,854
   For the year ended December 31, 2011
    Residential       ($ in millions) 
 Commercial
 Mortgage 
Consumer 
Unallocated 
Total 
Transactions in the ALLL: 
            Balance at January 1
 $  1,989
 310 
 555 
 150 
  3,004
  Losses charged off 
  (615)
 (180)
 (519)
 - 
 (1,314)
 Recoveries of losses previously charged off 
  61
 7 
 74 
 - 
 142
 Provision for loan and lease losses 
  92
 90 
 255 
 (14)
 423
Balance at December 31
 $  1,527
 227 
 365 
 136 
 2,255
    For the year ended December 31, 2010
    Residential       ($ in millions) 
 Commercial
 Mortgage 
Consumer 
Unallocated 
Total 
Transactions in the ALLL: 
            Balance at January 1
 $  2,517
 375 
 664 
 193 
  3,749
  Losses charged off 
  (1,444)
 (441)
 (600)
 - 
 (2,485)
 Recoveries of losses previously charged off 
  80
 2 
 75 
 - 
 157
 Provision for loan and lease losses 
  836
 374 
 371 
 (43)
 1,538
 Impact of change in accounting principle 
  - - 
 45 
 - 
 45
Balance at December 31
 $  1,989
 310 
 555 
 150 
 3,004
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  100  Fifth Third Bancorp 
The following tables provide a summary of the ALLL and re
lated loans and leases classified by portfolio segment:
         Residential      As of December 31, 2012 ($ in millions)
  Commercial
 Mortgage 
Consumer 
Unallocated 
Total 
ALLL:(a)             Individually evaluated for impairment
 $  95 
  137 
  62 
  - 
  294 
  Collectively evaluate
d for impairment 
  1,140 
  91 
  216 
  - 
  1,447 
  Loans acquired with dete
riorated credit quality 
  1 
  1 
  - 
  - 
  2 
  Unallocated 
  - 
  - 
  - 
  111 
  111 
 Total ALLL
 $  1,236 
  229 
  278 
  111 
  1,854 
 Loans and leases:
(b)
             Individually evaluated for impairment
 $  980 
  1,298 
  544 
  - 
  2,822 
  Collectively evaluate
d for impairment 
  48,407 
  10,637 
  23,833 
  - 
  82,877 
  Loans acquired with dete
riorated credit quality 
  1 
  6 
  - 
  - 
  7 
 Total portfolio loans and leases
 $  49,388 
  11,941 
  24,377 
  - 
  85,706 
 (a)
 Includes $11 related to leveraged leases. 
(b)
 Excludes $76 of residential mortgage loans measured at fair valu
e, and includes $862 of leveraged leases, net of unearned incom
e.       Residential       As of December 31, 2011
 ($ in millions) 
 Commercial 
 Mortgage 
Consumer 
Unallocated 
Total  
ALLL:(a)             Individually evaluated for impairment
 $  155
 130 
 65 
- 350
 Collectively evaluate
d for impairment 
  1,371
 96 
 300 
- 1,767
 Loans acquired with dete
riorated credit quality 
  1 1 
-- 2 Unallocated 
  --- 136 
 136
Total ALLL 
$  1,527
 227 
 365 
 136 
 2,255
Loans and leases:
(b)
   Individually evaluated for impairment
 $  1,170
 1,258 
 574 
- 3,002
 Collectively evaluate
d for impairment 
  44,299
 9,341 
 24,300 
- 77,940
 Loans acquired with dete
riorated credit quality 
  3 8 
 - 
- 11
Total portfolio loans and leases 
$  45,472
 10,607 
 24,874 
- 80,953
(a) Includes $14 related to leveraged leases. 
(b) Excludes $65 of residential mortgage loans measured at fair valu
e, and includes $1,022 of leveraged leases, net of unearned inc
ome.  
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  101  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 CREDIT RISK PROFILE 
Commercial Portfolio Segment 
For purposes of monitoring the credit quality and risk 
characteristics of its commercial portfolio segment, the Bancorp 
disaggregates the segment into th
e following classes: commercial 
and industrial, commercial mortgage owner-occupied, commercial 

mortgage nonowner-occupied, commercial construction and 

commercial leasing.  
To facilitate the monitoring 
of credit quality within the 
commercial portfolio segment, and for purposes of analyzing 

historical loss rates used in the determination of the ALLL for the 

commercial portfolio segment, the 
Bancorp utilizes the following 
categories of credit grades: pa
ss, special mention, substandard, 
doubtful or loss. The five categories, which are derived from 

standard regulatory rating defi
nitions, are assigned upon initial 
approval of credit to borrowers and updated periodically thereafter. 

Pass ratings, which are assigned to those borrowers that do not have 
identified potential or well define
d weaknesses and for which there 
is a high likelihood of orderly repayment, are updated periodically 

based on the size and credit characteristics of the borrower. All 
other categories are updated on a quarterly basis during the month 
preceding the end of the calendar quarter.  
The Bancorp assigns a special mention rating to loans and 
leases that have potential weaknesses that deserve management™s 

close attention. If left uncorrected, these potential weaknesses may, 

at some future date, result in th
e deterioration of the repayment 
prospects for the loan or lease or the Bancorp™s credit position.  
The Bancorp assigns a substandard rating to loans and leases 
that are inadequately protected 
by the current sound worth and 
paying capacity of the borrower or of the collateral pledged. 
Substandard loans and leases have well defined weaknesses or 
weaknesses that could jeopardize the orderly repayment of the debt. 

Loans and leases in this grade also
 are characterized by the distinct 
possibility that the Bancorp will sustain some loss if the deficiencies 

noted are not addressed and corrected. 
The Bancorp assigns a doubtful ra
ting to loans and leases that 
have all the attributes of a substandard rating with the added 

characteristic that the weaknesses make collection or liquidation in 
full, on the basis of currently existi
ng facts, conditions, and values, 
highly questionable and improbable. The possibility of loss is 

extremely high, but because of cer
tain important and reasonable 
specific pending factors that may work to the advantage of and 

strengthen the credit quality of the loan or lease, its classification as 

an estimated loss is deferred until its more exact status may be 

determined. Pending factors may include a proposed merger or 

acquisition, liquidation proceeding, 
capital injection, perfecting liens 
on additional collateral or refinancing plans. Loans and leases classified as 
loss are considered uncollectible 
and are charged off in the period in
 which they are determined to be 
uncollectible. Because loans and leas
es in this category are fully 
charged down, they are not included in the following tables. 
            The following table summarizes the cred
it risk profile of the Bancorp™s commercial portfolio segment, by class:
                 Special      As of December 31, 2012 ($ in millions)
  Pass 
Mention 
Substandard 
Doubtful 
Total 
Commercial and industrial loans 
$ 33,521 
 1,113 
 1,379 
25 
  36,038 
 Commercial mortgage loans owner-occupied
   3,934 
 338 
 603 
 1 
  4,876 
 Commercial mortgage loans nonowner-occupied
   2,958 
 449 
 815 
 5 
  4,227 
 Commercial construction loans
   444 
 59 
 195 
 - 
  698 
 Commercial leases
   3,483 
 48 
 18 
 - 
  3,549 
 Total $ 44,340 
 2,007 
 3,010 
 31 
  49,388 
     Special      As of December 31, 2011
 ($ in millions) 
 Pass 
Mention 
Substandard 
Doubtful 
Total 
Commercial and industrial loans 
$ 27,199 
 1,641 
 1,831 
 112 
  30,783 
 Commercial mortgage loans owner-occupied 
  3,893 
 567 
 778 
 28 
  5,266 
 Commercial mortgage loans nonowner-occupied 
  3,328 
 521 
 984 
 39 
  4,872 
 Commercial construction loans 
  343 
 235 
 413 
 29 
  1,020 
 Commercial leases 
  3,434 
 52 
 44 
 1 
  3,531 
 Total 
$ 38,197 
 3,016 
 4,050 
 209 
  45,472 
   Consumer Portfolio Segment 
For purposes of monitoring the credit quality and risk 
characteristics of its consumer portfolio segment, the Bancorp 

disaggregates the segment into the following classes: home equity, 

automobile loans, credit card, an
d other consumer loans and leases. 
The Bancorp™s residential mortgage portfolio segment is also a 

separate class.  
The Bancorp considers repayment performance as the best 
indicator of credit quality for residential mortgage and consumer 
loans, which includes both the de
linquency status and performing 
versus nonperforming status of th
e loans. The delinquency status 
of all residential mortgage and consumer loans is presented by 

class in the age analysis section be
low while the performing versus 
nonperforming status is presented in the table below. Residential 

mortgage loans that have princip
al and interest payments that have 
become past due 150 days and home 
equity loans with principal 
and interest payments that have become past due 180 days are 
classified as nonperforming unle
ss such loans are both well secured 
and in the process of collecti
on. Residential mortgage, home 
equity, automobile and other consu
mer loans and leases that have 
been modified in a TDR and subsequently become past due 90 

days are classified as nonperforming, unless the loan is both well 

secured and in the process of coll
ection. Credit card loans that 
have been modified in a TDR are classified as nonperforming 

unless such loans have a sustained repayment performance of six 
months or greater and are reasonably assured of repayment in 
accordance with the restructured terms. Well secured loans are 

collateralized by perfected security interests in real and/or personal 

property for which the Bancorp estimates proceeds from sale 

would be sufficient to recover 
the outstanding principal and 
accrued interest balance of the loan and pay all costs to sell the 

collateral. The Bancorp considers a loan in the process of 

collection if collection efforts or legal action is proceeding and the 
Bancorp expects to collect funds sufficient to bring the loan 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  102  Fifth Third Bancorp 
current or recover the entire outstanding principal and accrued 
interest balance.  The following table presents a summary of 
the Bancorp™s residential mortgage and consu
mer portfolio segments disaggregated into
 performin
gversus nonperforming status as of December 31: 
     2012 
 2011 
 ($ in millions) 
 Performing
 Nonperforming 
Performing 
Nonperforming 
Residential mortgage loans
(a) $ 11,704 
 237 
 10,332 
 275 
 Home equity 
  9,965 
 53 
 10,665 
 54 
 Automobile loans 
  11,970 
 2 
 11,825 
 2 
 Credit card 
  2,058 
 39 
 1,930 
 48 
 Other consumer loans and leases 
  289 
 1 
 349 
 1 
 Total 
$ 35,986 
 332 
 35,101 
 380 
(a) Excludes $76
 and $65 of loans measured at fair value at 
December 31, 2012
 and 2011, respectively. 
Age Analysis of Past Due Loans and Leases   The following tables summarize the Bancorp™s recorded in
vestment in portfolio loans and leases by age and class:
       Past Due
       Current
   90 Days 
     90 Days Past
 As of December 31, 2012
 Loans and 
 30-89 
 and
 Total 
 Total Loans 
Due and Still 
($ in millions) 
Leases(c) Days
(c) 
Greater
(c) Past Due
 and Leases 
Accruing Commercial: 
         Commercial and industrial loans 
 $35,826 
 46 
 166  212 
 36,038 
 1   Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans 
4,752 
 29 
 95 
 124  4,876 
 22 
  Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans 
4,094 
 21  112  133  4,227 
 -   Commercial construction loans 
622 
 -  76 
 76 
 698 
 1   Commercial leases 
3,546 
 2  1  3  3,549 
 -  Residential mortgage loans
(a)(b) 11,547 
 87 
 307 
 394 
 11,941 
 75 
  Home equity 
9,782 
 126  110  236 
 10,018 
 58 
  Automobile loans 
11,900 
 62 
 10  72 
 11,972 
 8   Credit card 
2,025 
 38 
 34 
 72 
 2,097 
 30 
  Other consumer loans and leases  
287 
 2  1  3  290 
 -  Total portfolio loans and leases
(a)(d) $84,381 
 413 
 912 
 1,325 
 85,706 
 195  (a)
 Excludes $76 of loans measured at fair value. 
(b)
 Information for current residential mortgage loans includes advance
s made pursuant to servicing agreements for GNMA mortgage po
ols whose repayments are insured by the Federal Housing 
Administration or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affa
irs. As of December 31, 2012, $80 of these loans were 30-89 days
 past due and $414 were 90 days or more past due. The 
Bancorp recognized $2 million of losses for the year ended December
 31, 2012 due to claim denials and curtailments associated w
ith these advances.  
(c) Includes accrual and nonaccrual loans and leases. 
(d)
 Includes an immaterial amount of government insured commercia
l loans 30-89 days and 90 days past due and accruing whose repayme
nts are insured by the Small Business Administration at 
December 31, 2012. 
 
     Past Due
       Current
   90 Days 
     90 Days Past
 As of December 31, 2011 
Loans and 
 30-89
 and
 Total 
 Total Loans 
Due and Still 
($ in millions) 
Leases(c) Days
(c) 
Greater
(c) Past Due
 and Leases 
Accruing Commercial: 
         Commercial and industrial loans 
 $30,493 
49 
 241 
290 
 30,783 
 4   Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans 
5,088 
62 
 116 
178 
 5,266 
 1   Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans 
4,649 
41 
 182 
223 
 4,872 
 2   Commercial construction loans 
887 
12 
 121 
133 
 1,020 
 1   Commercial leases 
3,521 
4  6 10 
 3,531 
 -  Residential mortgage loans
(a)(b) 10,149 
110 
 348 
458 
 10,607 
 79 
 Consumer: 
           Home equity 10,455 
136 
 128 
264 
 10,719 
 74 
  Automobile loans 
11,744 
71 
 12 
83 
 11,827 
 9   Credit card 
1,873 
33 
 72 
105 
 1,978 
 30 
  Other consumer loans and leases  
348 
1  1 2  350 
 -  Total portfolio loans and leases
(a)(d) $79,207 
 519 
 1,227 
 1,746 
 80,953 
 200 
 (a) Excludes $65 of loans measured at fair value. 
(b) Information for current residential mortgage loans includes advance
s made pursuant to servicing agreements for GNMA mortgage po
ols whose repayments are insured by the Federal Housing 
Administration or guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affa
irs. As of December 31, 2011, $45 of these loans were 30-89 days
 past due and $309 were 90 days or more past due. The 
Bancorp recognized an immaterial amount of losses for the year en
ded December 31, 2011 due to claim denials and curtailments as
sociated with these advances.  
(c) Includes accrual and nonaccrual loans and leases. 
(d) Includes an immaterial amount of government insured commercial 
loans 30-89 and 90 days past due and accruing whose repayments a
re insured by the Small Business Administration at December 
31, 2011. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  103  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  Impaired Loans and Leases 
Larger commercial loans included within aggregate borrower 

relationship balances exceeding $1 
million that exhibit probable or 
observed credit weaknesses are subject to individual review for 
impairment. The Bancorp also performs an individual review on 
loans that are restructured in a troubled debt restructuring. The 

Bancorp considers the current value of collateral, credit quality of 

any guarantees, the loan structure, and other factors when 
evaluating whether an individual loan is impaired. Other factors 
may include the geography and industry of the borrower, size and 

financial condition of the borrower, cash flow and leverage of the 

borrower, and the Bancorp™s evaluation of the borrower™s 
management. Smaller balance homogenous loans that are 
collectively evaluated for impairment are not included in the 
following tables.   The following table summarizes the Bancorp™s im
paired loans and leases (by class) that 
were subject to individual review as of 
December 31, 2012:
           Unpaid
     As of December 31, 2012
   Principal 
Recorded    ($ in millions)
   Balance 
Investment 
Allowance
 With a related allowance recorded: 
          Commercial:
        Commercial and industrial loans 
    $263 
 194 65  Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans 
   54 
 43 
5  Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans 
   215 
 160  16  Commercial construction loans 
   48 
 37 
5  Commercial leases 
   8  8 5 Restructured residential mortgage loans 
   1,067 
 1,023 
137 Restructured consumer: 
        Home equity    400 
 396 
46  Automobile loans 
   31  30 
4  Credit card 
   74 
 74 
12  Other consumer loans and leases  
   2  2 - Total impaired loans with a related allowance 
   $2,162 
 1,967 
 295
 With no related allowance recorded: 
         Commercial:
         Commercial and industrial loans 
    $207 
 169  -  Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans 
   107  99 
 -  Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans 
   209 
 199  -  Commercial construction loans 
   109  67 
 -  Commercial leases 
   5  5  - Restructured residential mortgage loans 
   326 
 275 
 - Restructured consumer: 
          Home equity    40 
 39 
 -  Automobile loans 
   3  3  - Total impaired loans with no related allowance 
   1,006 
 856 
 - Total impaired loans  
   $3,168 
 2,823 
(a)
 295
 (a) Includes $431, $1,175
 and 
$480
, respectively, of commercial, residential mortgage and consumer TDRs on accrual status; 
$177
, $123
 and 
$64, respectively, of commercial, residential mortgage and 
consumer TDRs on nonaccrual status.   
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  104  Fifth Third Bancorp 
The following table summarizes the Bancorp™s im
paired loans and leases (by class) that 
were subject to individual review as of 
December 31, 2011:
      Unpaid
     As of December 31, 2011
 Principal 
Recorded    ($ in millions)
 Balance 
Investment 
Allowance
 With a related allowance recorded: 
      Commercial:
      Commercial and industrial loans 
 $330 
 246 
102
  Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans 
66 
 52 
10  Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans 
203 
 147 
24  Commercial construction loans 
213 
 120 
18  Commercial leases 
11 
 10 
2 Restructured residential mortgage loans 
1,091 
 1,038 
131
 Restructured consumer: 
     Home equity 401 
 397 
46  Automobile loans 
37 
 37 
5  Credit card 
94 
 88 
14  Other consumer loans and leases  
2  2 - Total impaired loans with a related allowance 
$2,448 
 2,137 
 352
 With no related allowance recorded: 
      Commercial:
      Commercial and industrial loans 
 $375 
 265 
 -  Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans 
78 
 69 
 -  Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans 
191 
 157 
 -  Commercial construction loans 
143 
 105 
 -  Commercial leases 
2  2  - Restructured residential mortgage loans 
276 
 228 
 - Restructured consumer: 
       Home equity 48 
 46 
 -  Automobile loans 
4  4  - Total impaired loans with no related allowance 
1,117 
 876 
 - Total impaired loans  
$3,565 
 3,013 
(a) 352
 (a) Includes $390, $1,117 and $495, respectively, of commercial, residential mortgage and consumer TDRs on accrual status; $160, $1
41 and $79, respectively, of comme
rcial, residential mortgage and 
consumer TDRs on nonaccrual status.   
The following table summarizes the Bancorp™s average impaired lo
ans and leases and interest income by class for the year ended 
December 31:                 2012 
  2011 
       Average 
Interest 
 Average 
Interest 
      Recorded Income 
 Recorded Income 
 ($ in millions) 
   Investment 
Recognized 
 Investment 
Recognized 
 Commercial: 
             Commercial and industrial loans  
 $448 
 4  532 
  5  Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans 
 156  4  117 
  2  Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans 
 361 
 10  288 
  5  Commercial construction loans 
 160  2  198 
  3  Commercial leases 
 10  -  16 
  - Restructured residential mortgage loans
  1,276 
 47  1,217 
  41 Restructured consumer:
             Home equity 
 439 
 24  444 
  23  Automobile loans 
 38 
 1  41 
  1  Credit card 
 80 
 4  94 
  3  Other consumer loans and leases  
 1  -  21 
  - Total impaired loans
  $2,969 
 96  2,968 
  83 During the year ended December 31, 2010, interest income of $74 mill
ion was recognized on impaired loans that had an average ba
lance of $3.2 
billion.   
 
 
 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  105  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Nonperforming Assets 
 The following table summarizes the Bancorp™s nonperformi
ng loans and leases, by class, as of December 31:
     ($ in millions)
 2012 
 2011 
 Commercial: 
   Commercial and industrial loans 
 $330 
 487 
 Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans 
125  170 
 Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans 
157  251 
 Commercial construction loans 
76 
 138 
 Commercial leases 
9  12 
Total commercial loans and leases 
697 
 1,058 
 Residential mortgage loans 
237 
 275 
Consumer: 
   Home equity 53 
 54 
 Automobile loans 
2  2  Credit card 
39 
 48 
 Other consumer loans and leases  
1  1 Total consumer loans and leases 
95 
 105 
 Total nonperforming loans and leases
(a)(c) $1,029 
 1,438 
 OREO and other repossessed property
(b) 257 
 378 
 (a) Excludes $29 
and $138 of nonaccrual loans held for sale at 
December 31, 2012
 and 2011, respectively. 
(b) Excludes $72
 and $64 of OREO related to government insured loans at 
December 31, 2012
 and 2011, respectively.  
(c) Includes $10
 and $17 of nonaccrual government insured commercial loans who
se repayments are insured by the 
Small Business Administration at
 December 31, 2012 
and 2011, respectively, 
and $1 and $2 of restructured nonaccrual government insured commercial loans at 
December 31, 2012
 and 2011, respectively. 
 Troubled Debt Restructurings  
If a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty, the Bancorp may 
consider, in certain circumstances, modifying the terms of their loan 
to maximize collection of amou
nts due. Within each of the 
Bancorp™s loan classes, TDRs typically involve either a reduction of 

the stated interest rate of the loan, an extension of the loan™s 

maturity date(s) with a stated rate lower than the current market rate 

for a new loan with similar risk, or in limited circumstances, a 

reduction of the principal balance of
 the loan or the loan™s accrued 
interest. Modifying the terms of loans may result in an increase or 
decrease to the ALLL depending upon the terms modified, the 
method used to measure the ALLL fo
r a loan prior to modification, 
and whether any charge-offs were recorded on the loan before or at 

the time of modification. Refer to the ALLL section of Note 1 for 

information on the Bancorp™s ALLL methodology. Upon 

modification of a loan, the Bancorp measures the related 

impairment as the difference between the estimated future cash 
flows, discounted at the original e
ffective yield of the loan, expected 
to be collected on the modified lo
an and the carrying value of the 
loan. The resulting measurement may result in the need for minimal 
or no valuation allowance because it is probable that all cash flows 

will be collected under the modified
 terms of the loan. In addition, 
if the stated interest rate was increased in a TDR, the cash flows on 

the modified loan, using the pre-modification interest rate as the 

discount rate, often exceed the recorded investment of the loan.  

Conversely, the Bancorp often reco
gnizes an impairment loss as an 
increase to ALLL upon a modification that reduces the stated 
interest rate on a loan. If a TDR involves a reduction of the 
principal balance of the loan or 
the loan™s accrued interest, that 
amount is charged off to the 
ALLL. At December 31, 2012, the 
Bancorp had $28 million in line of credit commitments and $25 

million in letter of credit commitments to lend additional funds to 

borrowers whose terms have been modified in a TDR compared to 

$42 million and $1 million, respectively, at December 31, 2011.    
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  106  Fifth Third Bancorp 
The following table provides a summary of loans modified 
in a TDR by the Bancorp during the year ended December 31: 
       Recorded investment
 Increase     Number of loans
 in loans modified
 (Decrease) Charge-offs 
  modified in a TDR
 in a TDR 
 to ALLL upon
recognized upon  
2012 ($ in millions)
(a) during the period
(b) 
during the period
 modification 
modification 
Commercial: 
       Commercial and industrial loans 
 108  $84 
  (7)
 9  Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans 
67 
 53 
  (8)
 2  Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans 
67 
 91   (7)
 -  Commercial construction loans 
17  38 
  (4)
 -  Commercial leases 
8  7  1  - Residential mortgage loans
 1,758 
 340 
 35 
 - Consumer:
          Home equity 1,343 
 82 
 1  -  Automobile loans 
1,289 
 23 
 2  -  Credit card 
11,407 
 75 
 11  - Total portfolio loans and leases
 16,064  $793 
  24 
 11        Recorded investment
 Increase     Number of loans
 in loans modified
 (Decrease) Charge-offs 
  modified in a TDR
 in a TDR 
 to ALLL upon
recognized upon  
2011 ($ in millions)
(a) during the period
(b) 
during the period
 modification 
modification 
Commercial: 
       Commercial and industrial loans 
 52 
 $83 
  (4)
 3  Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans 
32 
 55 
  (6)
 2  Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans 
39 
 90 
  (21)
 3  Commercial construction loans 
26 
 59 
  (9)
 1  Commercial leases 
2  -  -  - Residential mortgage loans
 1,728 
 338 
 34 
 - Consumer:
          Home equity 1,317 
 80 
 1  -  Automobile loans 
1,482 
 26 
 3  -  Credit card 
12,234 
 79 
 11 
 - Total portfolio loans and leases
 16,912 
 $810 
  9 
 9 (a)
 Excludes all loans and leases held for sale and lo
ans acquired with deteriorated credit quality. 
(b)
 Represents number of loans post-modification.
  The Bancorp considers TDRs that become 90 days or more past 
due under the modified terms as subsequently defaulted.  For 
commercial loans not subject to individual review for impairment, 
the historical loss rates that are applied to such commercial loans for 

purposes of determining the allo
wance include historical losses 
associated with subsequent defaults
 on loans previously modified in 
a TDR.  For consumer loans, th
e Bancorp performs a qualitative 
assessment of the adequacy of the consumer ALLL by comparing 

the consumer ALLL to forecasted consumer losses over the 

projected loss emergence period (the forecasted losses include the 
impact of subsequent defaults of consumer TDRs).  When a 
residential mortgage, home equity, auto or other consumer loan that 
has been modified in a TDR subsequently defaults, the present 
value of expected cash flows used in the measurement of the 
potential impairment loss is generally limited to the expected net 

proceeds from the sale of the lo
an™s underlying collateral and any 
resulting impairment loss is reflected
 as a charge-off or an increase 
in ALLL.  When a credit card loan
 that has been modified in a TDR 
subsequently defaults, the calcu
lation of the impairment loss is 
consistent with the Bancorp™s calculation for other credit card loans 

that have become 90 days or more past due.  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  107  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following table provides a summary of
 subsequent defaults that occurred duri
ng the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 a
nd within 12 
months of the restructuring date: 
    Number of
 Recorded December 31, 2012 ($ in millions)
(a)
 Contracts
 Investment 
Commercial: 
   Commercial and industrial loans 
 2  $3   Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans 
3  2   Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans 
2  1   Commercial construction loans 
2  3  Residential mortgage loans
 332 
 57 
 Consumer:
      Home equity 101  7   Automobile loans 
42 
 -   Credit card 
28 
 -  Total portfolio loans and leases
 512 
 $73 
       Number of
 Recorded December 31, 2011 ($ in millions)
(a) Contracts
 Investment 
Commercial: 
   Commercial and industrial loans 
 8  $4   Commercial mortgage owner-occupied loans 
4  5   Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied loans 
4  3   Commercial construction loans 
3  4  Residential mortgage loans
 337 
 55 
 Consumer:
      Home equity 206 
 13 
  Automobile loans 
28 
 1   Credit card 
67 
 1  Total portfolio loans and leases
 657 
 $86 
 (a)
 Excludes all loans and leases held for sale and lo
ans acquired with deteriorated credit quality. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  108  Fifth Third Bancorp 
7. BANK PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT 
The following is a summary of bank premises and equipment at December 31:
    ($ in millions)
  Estimated Useful Life
2012 
2011
Land and improvements 
 $841 
 834
Buildings 
 5 to 50 yrs.
 1,692 
 1,623
Equipment  2 to 20 yrs.
 1,460 
 1,318
Leasehold improvements 
 3 to 40 yrs.
 386 
 394
Construction in progress 
  141  140
Accumulated depreciation and amortization 
  (1,978) (1,862)
Total  
  $2,542 
2,447
  Depreciation and amortization expense related to bank premises 
and equipment was $233 million 
in 2012, $224 million in 2011 and 
$225 million in 2010.  During 2012, the Bancorp recorded charges of $21 million of 
lower of cost or market adjustment
s associated with bank premises. 
These adjustments were generally based on appraisals of the 

underlying bank premises less estimated selling costs. The 

recognized impairment losses were recorded in other noninterest 

income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  
Gross occupancy expense for cancelable and noncancelable 
leases was $99 million in 2012 an
d 2011 and $98 million in 2010, 
which was reduced by rental income from leased premises of $17 

million in 2012 and $19 million in
 2011 and 2010.  The Bancorp™s 
subsidiaries have entered into a number of noncancelable and 

capital lease agreements with respect to bank premises and 

equipment. 
 The following table provides the annual futu
re minimum payments under capital leases and noncancelable operating leases at Dece
mber 31, 2012:    ($ in millions)
  Operating Leases
Capital LeasesYear ended December 31, 
      2013 
$89 
7      2014 
85 
7      2015 
81 
6      2016 
74 
3      2017 
66 
 - 
Thereafter 374 
1 Total minimum lease payments 
$769 
24 
Less: Amounts representing interest 
  - 
3 Present value of net mi
nimum lease payments 
  - 
21 
 8. GOODWILL Business combinations entered into 
by the Bancorp typically include 
the acquisition of goodwill. Acquisition activity includes acquisitions 
in the respective period, in addition to purchase accounting 
adjustments related to previous 
acquisitions. During the fourth 
quarter of 2008, the Bancorp determined that the Commercial 

Banking and Consumer Lending segments™ goodwill carrying 
amounts exceeded their associated implied fair values by $750 
million and $215 million, respectively. The resulting $965 million 
goodwill impairment charge was reco
rded in the fourth quarter of 
2008 and represents the total amount of accumulated impairment 

losses as of December 31, 2012.  
 Changes in the net carrying amount of goodwill, by reporting
 unit, for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follo
ws:         Commercial 
Branch Consumer 
Investment 
 ($ in millions) 
 Banking 
Banking 
Lending 
Advisors Total 
Net carrying value as of December 31, 2010 
$613
1,656 
             -
148 
2,417
Acquisition activit
y  --             -
             -
            -
Net carrying value as of December 31, 2011 
$613
1,656 
             -
148 
2,417
Acquisition activit
y   - (1)
             -
           -
 (1)
Net carrying value as of December 31, 2012
 $6131,655 
             -
148 2,416
  The Bancorp completed its annual goodwill impairment test as of 
September 30, 2012 and the estimated 
fair values of the Commercial 
Banking, Branch Banking and Investment Advisors segments 
substantially exceeded their carry
ing values, including goodwill. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  109  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 9. INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
Intangible assets consist of mortga
ge servicing rights, core deposit 
intangibles, customer lists, non-compete agreements and cardholder 

relationships. Intangible assets, excluding servicing rights, are 
amortized on either a straight-line or
 an accelerated basis over their 
estimated useful lives and have 
an estimated remaining weighted-
average life at December 31, 2012 of 3.9 years. For more 

information on mortgage servicing rights, see Note 11.  
  The details of the Bancorp™s intangible assets are shown in the following table:
            Gross Carrying 
Accumulated  
Valuation 
Net Carrying 
($ in millions)  
Amount 
Amortization 
 Allowance  Amount 
As of December 31, 2012
          Mortgage servicing rights 
$2,825 
(1,467)(661)697 
 Core deposit intangibles 
180 (160) - 
20 
 Other 44 
(37) - 
7 Total intangible assets
 $3,049 
(1,664)(661)724 
As of December 31, 2011
  Mortgage servicing rights 
$2,520 
(1,281)
(558)
681 
 Core deposit intangibles 
439 
(407)
 - 
32 
 Other 44 
(36)
 - 
8 Total intangible assets 
$3,003 
(1,724)
(558)
721 
  As of December 31, 2012, all of the Bancorp™s intangible assets 
were being amortized. Amortization expense recognized on 

intangible assets, including mortgage servicing rights, for the years 
ending December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $199 million, $157 
million and $181 million, respectively.  Estimated amortization expense for the years en
ding December 31, 2013 through 2017 is as follows: 
          Mortgage 
Other    ($ in millions) 
 Servicing Rights 
Intangible Assets
Total 
2013  
$284 
 8  292 
 2014  
 220 
 4  224 
 2015  
 173 
 2  175 
 2016  
 137 
 2  139 
 2017  
 109 
 2  111 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  110  Fifth Third Bancorp 
10. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES 
The Bancorp, in the normal course of business, engages in a variety 
of activities that involve VIEs, which are legal entities that lack 
sufficient equity to finance their acti
vities, or the equity investors of 
the entities as a group lack any of 
the characteristics of a controlling 
interest. The primary beneficiary of a VIE is generally the enterprise 

that has both the power to direct th
e activities most significant to 
the economic performance of the VIE and the obligation to absorb 

losses or receive benefits that coul
d potentially be significant to the 
VIE. For certain investment funds,
 the primary beneficiary is the 
enterprise that will absorb a majo
rity of the fund™s expected losses 
or receive a majority of the fund
™s expected residual returns. The 
Bancorp evaluates its interest in cert
ain entities to determine if these 
entities meet the definition of a VIE and whether the Bancorp is the 
primary beneficiary and should consolidate the entity based on the 
variable interests it held both at inception and when there is a 

change in circumstances that re
quires a reconsideration. If the 
Bancorp is determined to be the primary beneficiary of a VIE, it 

must account for the VIE as a consolidated subsidiary. If the 

Bancorp is determined not to be the primary beneficiary of a VIE 

but holds a variable interest in the 
entity, such variable interests are 
accounted for under the equity method of accounting or other 
accounting standards as appropriate.  Consolidated VIEs
          The following table provides a summary of
 the classifications of consolidated VIE assets, liabilities and noncontrolling intere
sts included in the
Bancorp™s Consolidated Balance Sheets as of:
             Home Equity 
Automobile Loan 
CDC   December 31, 2012 ($ in millions)
  Securitization 
Securitizations 
Investments Total 
Assets: 
         Cash and due from banks 
$  - 
  - 
  - 
 - 
 Other short-term investments
   - 
 - 
  - 
 - 
 Commercial mortgage loans
   - 
 - 
 50 
50 
 Home equity   - 
  - 
 - 
 - 
 Automobile loans
   - 
 - 
  - 
 - 
 ALLL   - 
  - 
 (5) (5) Other assets   - 
  - 
  3 
3  Total assets
   - 
  - 
 48 
 48 
 Liabilities:
        Other liabilities
 $  - 
 - 
  - 
 - 
 Long-term debt
   - 
  - 
  - 
 - 
 Total liabilities
 $  - 
  - 
  - 
 - 
 Noncontrolling interests
       48 
48 
   Home Equity 
Automobile Loan 
CDC   December 31, 2011 ($ in millions) 
 Securitization 
Securitizations 
Investments Total 
Assets: 
         Cash and due from banks 
$ 5  25 
  - 
30 
 Other short-term investments 
  - 
7   - 
7  Commercial mortgage loans 
  - 
 - 
 50 
50 
 Home equity 
 223 
  - 
 - 
223 
 Automobile loans 
  - 
259 
  - 
259 
 ALLL  (5)
 (3)
 (2)
 (10)
 Other assets 
 1  1   2 
4  Total assets 
 224 
 289 
 50 
 563 
 Liabilities: 
       Other liabilities 
$  - 
4   - 
4  Long-term debt 
 22 
 169 
  - 
191 
 Total liabilities 
$ 22 
 173 
  - 
195 
 Noncontrolling interest 
      50 
50 
         Home Equity and Automobile Loan Securitizations 
The Bancorp previously sold $903 million of home equity lines of 
credit to an isolated trust. Additi
onally, the Bancorp previously sold 
$2.7 billion of automobile loans to 
an isolated trust and conduits in 
three separate transactions. Each of these transactions isolated the 

related loans through the use of a VIE that, under accounting 

guidance effective prior to January 1, 2010, was not consolidated by 

the Bancorp. The VIEs were funded through loans from large 

multi-seller asset-backed commerc
ial paper conduits sponsored by 
third party agents, asset-backed secu
rities issued with varying levels 
of credit subordination and payment 
priority, and residual interests. 
The Bancorp retained residual interests in these entities and, 

therefore, had an obligation to abso
rb losses and a right to receive 
benefits from the VIEs that could potentially be significant to the 
VIEs. In addition, the Bancorp retained servicing rights for the 
underlying loans and, therefore,
 held the power to direct the 
activities of the VIEs that most significantly impact the economic 

performance of the VIEs. As a result, the Bancorp determined it 

was the primary beneficiary of these VIEs and, effective January 1, 

2010, these VIEs were consolidated
 in the Bancorp™s Consolidated 
Financial Statements. On February
 8, 2012, the Bancorp exercised 
cleanup call options on an automob
ile securitization conduit and an 
isolated trust and acquired all 
remaining automobile loans, the 
proceeds of which were used by the conduit and trust to repay 
outstanding debt. On April 12, 2012, the Bancorp exercised its 

cleanup call option on the home equity isolated trust and acquired 

all remaining home equity loans, th
e proceeds of which were used 
by the trust to repay outstandin
g debt. On September 17, 2012, the 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  111  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Bancorp exercised its cleanup call option on the remaining 
automobile securitization conduit and acquired all remaining 

automobile loans, the proceeds of which were used by the conduit 

to repay outstanding debt. The economic performance of the VIEs was most significantly 
impacted by the performance of the underlying loans. The principal 

risks to which the entities were 
exposed include credit risk and 
interest rate risk. Credit risk was managed through credit 

enhancement in the form of reserve accounts, overcollateralization, 

excess interest on the loans, the subordination of certain classes of 

asset-backed securities to other c
lasses, and in the case of the home 
equity transaction, an insurance policy with a third party 
guaranteeing payment of accrued an
d unpaid interest and principal 
on the securities. Interest rate risk was managed by interest rate 

swaps between the VIEs and third parties.  
 
CDC Investments 
CDC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Bancorp, was created to 

invest in projects to create af
fordable housing, revitalize business 
and residential areas, and preserve historic landmarks. CDC 

generally co-invests with other unrelated companies and/or 

individuals and typically makes investments in a separate legal entity 
that owns the property under devel
opment. The entities are usually 
formed as limited partnerships an
d LLCs, and CDC typically invests 
as a limited partner/investor member in the form of equity 

contributions. The economic performance of the VIEs is driven by 

the performance of their underlying investment projects as well as 
the VIEs™ ability to operate in
 compliance with the rules and 
regulations necessary for the qualification of tax credits generated by 

equity investments. Typically, the general partner or managing 

member will be the party that has th
e right to make decisions that 
will most significantly impact the economic performance of the 
entity. The Bancorp serves as the managing member of certain 

LLCs invested in business revitalization projects. The Bancorp has 

provided an indemnification guarantee to the investor member of 

these LLCs related to the qualification of tax credits generated by 

the investor member™s investment. Accordingly, the Bancorp 

concluded that it is the primary 
beneficiary and, therefore, has 
consolidated these VIEs. As a 
result, the investor members™ 
interests in these VIEs are presen
ted as noncontrolling interests in 
the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements. This presentation 

includes reporting separately the equity attributable to the 

noncontrolling interests in the Consolidated Balance Sheets and 

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Equity and reporting 

separately the comprehensive income attributable to the 

noncontrolling interests in the Consolidated Statements of Income 

and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income. 
Additionally, the net income attributable to the noncontrolling 
interests is reported separately in the Consolidated Statements of 

Income. The Bancorp™s maximum exposure related to these 

indemnifications at December 31, 2012 and 2011 was $18 million 

and $10 million, respectively, which is based on an amount required 

to meet the investor member™s defined target rate of return.
  Non-consolidated VIEs
        The following tables provide a summary of assets and liabilities
 carried on the Bancorp™s Consolidated Balance Sheets related t
o non-consolidated 
VIEs for which the Bancorp holds a variable interest, but is not 
the primary beneficiary of the VIE, as well as the Bancorp™s ma
ximum exposure 
to losses associated with its interests in the entities: 
           Total  
Total  
Maximum  
As of December 31, 2012 ($ in millions)
  Assets 
Liabilities 
Exposure  
CDC investments 
$1,442 
 394 
 1,442 
 Private equity investments
  189   - 
310 
 Loans provided to VIEs
  1,622 
 -2,465 
 Restructured loans 
  2  - 2 
    Total  
Total  
Maximum  
As of December 31, 2011
 ($ in millions) 
 Assets Liabilities 
Exposure  
CDC investments 
$1,243
 269 
 1,243 
 Private equity investments 
 161
  3 
327 
 Money market funds  53  - 
62 
 Loans provided to VIEs 
 1,370
 -2,203 
 Restructured loans  
 10 -12 
  CDC Investments 
As noted previously, CDC typically invests in VIEs as a limited 

partner or investor member in the form of equity contributions. The 

Bancorp has determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of 
these VIEs because it lacks the power
 to direct the activities that 
most significantly impact the economic performance of the 

underlying project or the VIEs™ ability to operate in compliance with 

the rules and regulations necessary for the qualification of tax 

credits generated by equity invest
ments. This power is held by the 
general partners/managing members who exercise full and exclusive 

control of the operations of the VIEs. Accordingly, the Bancorp 

accounts for these investments under the equity method of 
accounting.     The Bancorp™s funding requirements are limited to its invested 
capital and any additional unfunded
 commitments for future equity 
contributions. The Bancorp™s maximum exposure to loss as a result 
of its involvement with the VIEs is limited to the carrying amounts 

of the investments, including the unfunded commitments. The 

carrying amounts of these investments, which are included in other 

assets in the Consolidated Balance 
Sheets, and the liabilities related 
to the unfunded commitments, which are included in other liabilities 

in the Consolidated Balance Sheets,
 are included in the previous 
tables for all periods presented. 
The Bancorp has no other liquidity arrangements or obligations to purchase assets of the VIEs that 
would expose the Bancorp to a loss. In certain arrangements, the 

general partner/managing member of the VIE has guaranteed a 

level of projected tax credits to be received by the limited 

partners/investor members, thereby minimizing a portion of the 

Bancorp™s risk. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  112  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Private Equity Investments 
The Bancorp invests as a limited partner in private equity funds 

which provide the Bancorp an opportunity to obtain higher rates of 

return on invested capital, while also creating cross-selling 

opportunities for the Bancorp™s commercial products. Each of the 
limited partnerships has an unrelated third-party general partner 
responsible for appointing the fund manager. The Bancorp has not 

been appointed fund manager for an
y of these private equity funds. 
The funds finance primarily all of their activities from the partners™ 

capital contributions and investment returns. Under the VIE 

consolidation guidance still applicable to the funds, the Bancorp has 

determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of the funds 

because it does not absorb a majority of the funds™ expected losses 
or receive a majority of the fund
s™ expected residual returns. 
Therefore, the Bancorp accounts fo
r its investments in these limited 
partnerships under the equity method of accounting. 
The Bancorp is exposed to losses arising from negative 
performance of the underlying investments in the private equity 

funds. As a limited partner, the Bancorp™s maximum exposure to 

loss is limited to the carrying amounts of the investments plus 

unfunded commitments. The carrying amounts of these 
investments, which are included in 
other assets in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheets, are included in the previous tables. Also, as of 

December 31, 2012 and 2011, the unfunded commitment amounts 

to the funds were $121 million an
d $166 million, respectively. The 
Bancorp made capital contributions
 of $61 million and $48 million 
to private equity funds during 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
 
Money Market Funds 
Under U.S. GAAP, money market funds are generally not 

considered VIEs because they are generally deemed to have 
sufficient equity at risk to finance their activities without additional 
subordinated financial support, and 
the fund shareholders do not 
lack the characteristics of a controlling interest. However, when a 

situation arises where an inve
stment manager provides credit 
support to a fund, even when not contractually required to do so, 

the investment manager is deemed under U.S. GAAP to have 

provided an implicit guarantee of the fund™s performance to the 

fund™s shareholders. Such an imp
licit guarantee would require the 
investment manager and other variable interest holders to 
reconsider the VIE status of the fund, as well as all other similar 

funds where such an implicit guarantee is now deemed to exist.  
In the fourth quarter of 2010, the Bancorp voluntarily provided 
credit support of less than $1 million to a money market fund 

managed by FTAM. Accordingly, the Bancorp was required to 

analyze the money market funds and similar funds managed by 

FTAM under the VIE consolidation guidance applicable to these 
funds to determine the primary beneficiary of each fund. In 
analyzing these funds, the Bancorp determined that interest rate risk 

and credit risk were the two main risks to which the funds were 

exposed. After analyzing the interest rate risk variability and credit 

risk variability associated with these funds, the Bancorp determined 

that it was not the primary beneficiary of these funds because it did 

not absorb a majority of the funds™ expected losses or receive a 

majority of the funds™ expected 
residual returns. Therefore, the 
Bancorp™s investments in these funds were included as other 
securities in the Bancorp™s Consolid
ated Balance Sheets. In the third 
quarter of 2012, the Bancorp sold certain assets relating to the 

management of Fifth Third money market funds. The remaining 

maximum exposure as of December 31, 2012 is immaterial to the 

Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Loans Provided to VIEs 
The Bancorp has provided funding to certain unconsolidated VIEs 
sponsored by third parties. These 
VIEs are generally established to 
finance certain consumer and small business loans originated by 

third parties. The entities are pr
imarily funded through the issuance 
of a loan from the Bancorp or syndication through which the 
Bancorp is involved. The sponsor/administrator of the entities is 

responsible for servicing the underlying assets in the VIEs. Because 

the sponsor/administrator, not the Bancorp, holds the servicing 

responsibilities, which include the 
establishment and employment of 
default mitigation policies and procedures, the Bancorp does not 

hold the power to direct the acti
vities most significant to the 
economic performance of the entity and, therefore, is not the 
primary beneficiary. The principal risk to which these 
entities are exposed is credit 
risk related to the underlying
 assets. The Bancorp™s maximum 
exposure to loss is equal to the carrying amounts of the loans and 

unfunded commitments to the VIEs. The Bancorp™s outstanding 

loans to these VIEs, included
 in commercial loans in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets, are incl
uded in the previous tables for 
all periods presented. Also, as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the 
Bancorp™s unfunded commitments 
to these entities were $843 
million and $833 million, respectively. The loans and unfunded 

commitments to these VIEs are in
cluded in the Bancorp™s overall 
analysis of the ALLL and reserve for unfunded commitments, 

respectively. The Bancorp does not provide any implicit or explicit 

liquidity guarantees or principal 
value guarantees to these VIEs. 
 
Restructured Loans As part of loan restructuring efforts, the Bancorp received equity 

capital from certain borrowers to facilitate the restructuring of the 
borrower™s debt. These borrowers meet the definition of a VIE 
because the Bancorp was involved 
in their refinancing and because 
their equity capital is insufficien
t to fund ongoing operations. These 
restructurings were intended to provide the VIEs with serviceable 

debt levels while providing the Bancorp an opportunity to maximize 

the recovery of the loans. The VIEs finance their operations from 

earned income, capital contributions
, and through restructured debt 
agreements. Assets of the VIEs are used to settle their specific 
obligations, including loan payments due to the Bancorp. The 
Bancorp continues to maintain its relationship with these VIEs as a 

lender and minority shareholder, however, it is not involved in 

management decisions and does not ha
ve sufficient voting rights to 
control the membership of the respective boards. Therefore, the 

Bancorp accounts for its equity investments in these VIEs under the 

equity method or cost method based on its percentage of ownership 

and ability to exercise significant influence. The Bancorp™s maximum exposure to loss as a result of its 
involvement with these VIEs is limit
ed to the equity investments, 
the principal and accrued interest 
on the outstanding loans, and any 
unfunded commitments. Due to the VIEs™ short-term cash deficit 

projections at the restructuring dates, the Bancorp determined that 

the initial fair value of its equity investments in these VIEs was zero. 

As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Bancorp™s carrying value of 

these equity investments was 
immaterial to the Bancorp™s 
Consolidated Balance Sheets. Additionally, the Bancorp had 
outstanding loans to these VIEs, included in commercial loans in 

the Consolidated Balance Sheets, whic
h are included in the previous 
tables for all periods presented. The Bancorp had no unfunded loan 

commitments to these VIEs as of December 31, 2012 and $2 

million at December 31, 2011. The loans and unfunded 

commitments to these VIEs are in
cluded in the Bancorp™s overall 
analysis of the ALLL and reserve for unfunded commitments, 
respectively. The Bancorp does not provide any implicit or explicit 
liquidity guarantees or principal 
value guarantees to these VIEs. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  113  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 11. SALES OF RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE RECE
IVABLES AND MORTGAGE SERVICING RIGHTS 
The Bancorp sold fixed and adjustable rate residential mortgage 
loans during 2012, 2011, and 2010. 
In those sales, the Bancorp 
obtained servicing responsibilities and the investors have no 
recourse to the Bancorp™s other asse
ts for failure of debtors to pay 
when due. The Bancorp receives annual servicing fees based on a 
percentage of the outstanding balance. The Bancorp identifies 
classes of servicing assets based on financial asset type and interest 
rates.   
 Information related to residential mortgage loan sales and the Ba
ncorp™s mortgage banking activity, which is included in mortga
ge banking net 
revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income, for the years ended December 31 is as follows: 
    ($ in millions)
  2012 
 2011 
 2010  
Residential mortgage loan sales 
$ 21,574 
14,733 
17,861 
  Origination fees and gains on loan sales 
  821 
396 
490 
Servicing fees 
  250 
234 
221 
 Servicing Assets The following table presents changes in the servicing assets 
related to residential mortgage loans for the years ended December
 31:
    ($ in millions)
  2012 
 2011 
 Carrying amount before valuation allowance as of the beginning of the period 
$  1,239 
1,138 
Servicing obligations that result from the transfer of residential mortgage loans 
 305 
236 
Amortization 
 (186)(135)
Carrying amount before valuation allowance 
  1,358 
1,239 
Valuation allowance for servicing assets: 
     Beginning balance 
 (558)(316)
    Servicing impairment 
 (103)(242)
    Ending balance 
 (661)(558)
Carrying amount as of the end of the period 
$ 697 
681 
  Temporary impairment or impairmen
t recovery, affected through a 
change in the MSR valuation allowance, is captured as a component 
of mortgage banking net revenue in the Consolidated Statements of 

Income. The Bancorp maintains a non-qualifying hedging strategy 

to manage a portion of the risk associated with changes in the value 

of the MSR portfolio. This strategy includes the purchase of free-

standing derivatives and various available-for-sale securities. The 
interest income, mark-to-market ad
justments and gain or loss from 
sale activities associated with 
these portfolios are expected to 
economically hedge a portion of the change in value of the MSR 

portfolio caused by fluctuating discount rates, earnings rates and 

prepayment speeds.
 The fair value of the servicing asset is based on 
the present value of expected
 future cash flows.    
 The following table displays the beginning and en
ding fair value for the years ended December 31: 
   ($ in millions)
  2012 
 2011 
 Fixed rate residential mortgage loans: 
     Beginning balance 
$ 649 
791
    Ending balance 
 664 
649
Adjustable 
rate residential mortgage loans: 
     Beginning balance 
 32 
31    Ending balance 
 33 
32  The following table presents activity related to valuations of
 the MSR portfolio and the impact of the non-qualifying hedging s
trategy, which is
included in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31:
    ($ in millions)
  2012 
 2011 
 2010  
Securities gains, net - non-qualifying hedges on MSRs 
$3  9 
 14 
Changes in fair value an
d settlement of free-standi
ng derivatives purchased 
     to economically hedge the MSR portfolio (Mortgage banking net revenue) 
 63 
344 
109 
Provision for MSR impairment (Mortgage banking net revenue) 
 (103)(242)
(36)
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  114  Fifth Third Bancorp 
As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the key economic assumptions used in 
measuring the MSRs that continued to be held by the Banco
rp at the
date of sale or securitization resultin
g from transactions completed during th
e years ended December 31 were as follows:
                      2012 
 2011 
  Rate 
Weighted-
Average Life 
(in years) 
Prepayment Speed (annual)Discount Rate 
(annual) 
Weighted-
Average 
Default rate
Weighted-
Average Life 
(in years) 
Prepayment Speed (annual) 
Discount Rate 
(annual) 
Weighted-
Average 
Default rate
Residential mortgage loans: 
    Servicing assets 
Fixed 
6.9 
9.6% 10.4 % N/A7.28.8 
% 10.5 
% N/A    Servicing assets 
Adjustable 
3.8 
22.0
11.4 N/A3.722.8 
11.4 
N/A  Based on historical credit experience, expected credit losses for 
residential mortgage loan servicing assets have been deemed 

immaterial, as the Bancorp sold the majority of the underlying loans 

without recourse. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Bancorp 
serviced $62.5 billion and $57.1 b
illion, respectively, of residential 
mortgage loans for other investors. The value of MSRs that 

continue to be held by the Bancorp is subject to credit, prepayment 

and interest rate risks on the sold financial assets.   
                    At December 31, 2012, the sensitivity of the current fair value of 
residual cash flows to immediate 10%, 20% and 50% adverse cha
nges in
prepayment speed assumptions and immediate 10% and 20% ad
verse changes in other assumptions are as follows:
                            Prepayment   Residual Servicing  
       Speed Assumption  Cash Flows    Fair Weighted-
Average 
Life (in 
 Impact of Adverse Change 
on Fair Value 
Discount 
Impact of Adverse 
Change on Fair 
Value 
($ in millions)
(a) Rate  Value 
years) Rate 
10% 
20% 
50% 
Rate 
10% 
20% 
Residential mortgage loans: 
     Servicing assets
 Fixed $664 
4.8 
16.1 
%$(37)
(72)
(159)
10.5
%$(22)
(42)
    Servicing assets 
Adjustable
  33 
3.1 
26.9 
(2)
(3)
(6)
11.7
(1)
(2)
(a) The impact of the weighted-average default rate on the current fa
ir value of residual cash flows for all scenarios is immateria
l.   These sensitivities are hypothetical an
d should be used with caution. 
As the figures indicate, changes in fair value based on these 

variations in the assumptions ty
pically cannot be extrapolated 
because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change 

in fair value may not be linear. The Bancorp believes variations of 

these levels are reasonably possible; however there is the potential 
that adverse changes in key assumptions could be even greater. 
Also, in the previous table, the eff
ect of a variation in a particular 
assumption on the fair value of the interests that continue to be held 

by the Bancorp is calculated without changing any other 

assumption; in reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in another (for example, increases in ma
rket interest rates may result in 
lower prepayments), which might 
magnify or counteract these 
sensitivities. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  115  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 12. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 
The Bancorp maintains an overall risk management strategy that 
incorporates the use of derivative 
instruments to reduce certain risks 
related to interest rate, prepaymen
t and foreign currency volatility. Additionally, the Bancorp holds derivative instruments for the 

benefit of its commercial customers and for other business 

purposes. The Bancorp does not enter into unhedged speculative 

derivative positions. 

 The Bancorp™s interest rate risk management strategy involves 

modifying the repricing characteristics of certain financial 

instruments so that changes in interest rates do not adversely affect 
the Bancorp™s net interest margin and cash flows. Derivative 
instruments that the Bancorp may use as
 part of its interest rate risk 
management strategy include interest rate swaps, interest rate floors, 

interest rate caps, forward contract
s, options and swaptions. Interest 
rate swap contracts are exchanges of interest payments, such as 

fixed-rate payments for floating-rate payments, based on a stated 

notional amount and maturity date
. Interest rate floors protect 
against declining rates, while interest
 rate caps protect against rising 
interest rates. Forward contracts are contracts in which the buyer 
agrees to purchase, and the seller agrees to make delivery of, a 

specific financial instrument at a predetermined price or yield. 

Options provide the purchaser with 
the right, but not the obligation, 
to purchase or sell a contracted it
em during a specified period at an 
agreed upon price. Swaptions are 
financial instruments granting the 
owner the right, but not the obligation, to enter into or cancel a 

swap.  Prepayment volatility arises mostly from changes in fair value 
of the largely fixed-rate MSR portfolio, mortgage loans and 

mortgage-backed securities. The 
Bancorp may enter into various 
free-standing derivatives (principal-only swaps, interest rate 

swaptions, interest rate floors, mortgage options, TBAs and interest 

rate swaps) to economically hedge 
prepayment volatility. Principal-
only swaps are total return swaps based on changes in the value of 

the underlying mortgage principal-only trust.
 TBAs are a forward 
purchase agreement for a mortgage-backed securities trade whereby 
the terms of the security are undefined at the time the trade is made. 

 Foreign currency volatility occurs as the Bancorp enters into 

certain loans denominated in foreign currencies. Derivative 

instruments that the Bancorp may use to economically hedge these 

foreign denominated loans include foreign exchange swaps and 

forward contracts. 
 The Bancorp also enters into 
derivative contracts (including 
foreign exchange contracts, commodity contracts and interest rate 
contracts) for the benefit of commercial customers and other 

business purposes. The Bancorp may economically hedge significant 

exposures related to these free-standi
ng derivatives by entering into 
offsetting third-party contra
cts with approved, reputable 
counterparties with substantiall
y matching terms and currencies. 
Credit risk arises from the possi
ble inability of counterparties to 
meet the terms of their contracts. The Bancorp™s exposure is limited 
to the replacement value of the contracts rather than the notional, 
principal or contract amounts. Cr
edit risk is minimized through 
credit approvals, limits, counte
rparty collateral and monitoring 
procedures.   The Bancorp™s derivative assets contain certain contracts in 

which the Bancorp requires the counterparties to provide collateral 
in the form of cash and securities 
to offset changes in the fair value 
of the derivatives, including changes in the fair value due to credit 

risk of the counterparty. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the 

balance of collateral held by the Bancorp for derivative assets was 

$927 million and $1.2 billion, respectively. The credit component 
negatively impacting the fair value of derivative assets associated 
with customer accommodation contracts as of December 31, 2012 

and 2011 was $18 million and $28 million, respectively. 

 In measuring the fair value of derivative liabilities, the Bancorp 

considers its own credit risk, taking into consideration collateral 

maintenance requirements of certain
 derivative counterparties and 
the duration of instruments with co
unterparties that do not require 
collateral maintenance. When necessary, the Bancorp primarily 
posts collateral in the form of cash 
and securities to offset changes 
in fair value of the derivatives, including changes in fair value due to 

the Bancorp™s credit risk. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the 

balance of collateral posted by the Ba
ncorp for derivative liabilities 
was $785 million and $788 million, respectively. Certain of the 

Bancorp™s derivative liabilities contain credit-risk related contingent 

features that could result in 
the requirement to post additional 
collateral upon the occurrence of specified events. As of December 
31, 2012 and 2011, the fair value 
of the additional collateral that 
could be required to be posted as a result of the credit-risk related 

contingent features being triggered was not material to the 

Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements.
 The posting of 
collateral has been determined to r
emove the need for consideration 
of credit risk. As a result, the Bancorp determined that the impact of 
the Bancorp™s credit risk to the valuation of its derivative liabilities 

was immaterial to the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 The Bancorp holds certain derivative instruments that qualify 
for hedge accounting treatment and 
are designated as either fair 
value hedges or cash flow hedges. Derivative instruments that do 

not qualify for hedge accounting 
treatment, or for which hedge 
accounting is not established, are 
held as free-standing derivatives. 
All customer accommodation derivatives are held as free-standing 

derivatives. 

 The fair value of derivative in
struments is presented on a gross 
basis, even when the derivative 
instruments are subject to master 
netting arrangements. Derivative in
struments with a positive fair 
value are reported in other assets
 in the Consolidated Balance 
Sheets while derivative instruments with a negative fair value are 

reported in other liabilities in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets. Cash 
collateral payables and receivables associated with the derivative 

instruments are not added to or netted against the fair value 

amounts.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  116  Fifth Third Bancorp 
The following tables reflect the notional amounts and fair values
 for all derivative instruments included in the Consolidated B
alance Sheets as of: 
       Fair Value 
  Notional
  Derivative 
Derivative 
December 31, 2012 ($ in millions)
  Amount
  Assets 
Liabilities 
Qualifying hedging instruments
     Fair value hedges:
       Interest rate swaps related to long-term debt
 $ 2,880 
 558 
 - 
   Total fair value hedges
   558 
 - 
   Cash flow hedges:
       Interest rate floors related to C&I loans
   1,500 
 22 
 - 
     Interest rate swaps related to C&I loans
   1,000 
 60 
 - 
     Interest rate caps related to long-term debt
   500 
 - 
 - 
     Interest rate swaps related to long-term debt
   250 
 - 
 1 
   Total cash flow hedges
   82 
 1 
Total derivatives designated as qualifying hedging instruments
   640 
 1 
Derivatives not designated as qualifying hedging instruments 
    Free-standing derivatives - risk management and other business purposes:
       Interest rate contracts related to MSRs
   10,177 
 219 
 - 
     Forward contracts related to held for sale mortgage loans
   5,322 
 2 
 14 
     Stock warrants associated with sale of the processing business
   416 
 177 
 - 
     Swap associated with the sale of Visa, Inc. Class B shares
   644 
 - 
 33 
   Total free-standing derivatives - risk management and other business purposes
   398 
 47 
   Free-standing derivatives - customer accommodation:
       Interest rate contracts for customers
   27,354 
 586 
 602 
     Interest rate lock commitments
   4,894 
 60 
 - 
     Commodity contracts
   3,084 
 87 
 82 
     Foreign exchange contracts
   17,297 
 201 
 183 
     Derivative instruments related to equity linked CDs
   5 
 - 
 - 
   Total free-standing deriva
tives - customer accommodation
   934 
 867 
Total derivatives not designated as qualifying hedging instruments
   1,332 
 914 
Total 
 $ 1,972 
 915 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  117  Fifth Third Bancorp 
     Fair Value 
 Notional 
Derivative 
Derivative 
December 31, 2011 ($ in millions) 
Amount
 Assets 
Liabilities 
Qualifying hedging instruments
    Fair value hedges: 
     Interest rate swaps related to long-term debt 
$ 4,080 
 662 
 - 
   Total fair value hedges 
 662 
 - 
   Cash flow hedges: 
     Interest rate floors related to C&I loans 
 1,500 
 91 
 - 
     Interest rate swaps related to C&I loans 
 1,500 
 59 
 - 
     Interest rate caps related to long-term debt 
 500 
 - 
 - 
     Interest rate swaps related to long-term debt 
 250 
 - 
 5 
   Total cash flow hedges 
 150 
 5 
Total derivatives designated as 
qualifying hedging instruments 
 812 
 5 
Derivatives not designated as qualifying hedging instruments
    Free-standing derivatives - risk management and other business purposes: 
     Interest rate contracts related to MSRs 
 3,077 
 187 
 - 
     Forward contracts related to held for sale mortgage loans 
 5,705 
 8 
 54 
     Interest rate swaps related to long-term debt 
 311 
 1 
 3 
     Put options associated with sale of the processing business 
 978 
 - 
 1 
     Stock warrants associated with sale of the processing business 
 223 
 111 
 - 
     Swap associated with the sale of Visa, Inc. Class B shares 
 436 
 - 
 78 
   Total free-standing derivatives - risk management and other business purposes 
 307 
 136 
   Free-standing derivatives - customer accommodation: 
     Interest rate contracts for customers 
 30,000 
 774 
 795 
     Interest rate lock commitments 
 3,835 
 33 
 1 
     Commodity contracts 
 2,074 
 134 
 130 
     Foreign exchange contracts 
 17,909 
 294 
 275 
     Derivative instruments related to equity linked CDs 
 34 
 2 
 2 
   Total free-standing deriva
tives - customer accommodation 
 1,237 
 1,203 
Total derivatives not designated as qualifying hedging instruments 
 1,544 
 1,339 
Total 
$ 2,356 
 1,344 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  118  Fifth Third Bancorp 
Fair Value Hedges 
The Bancorp may enter into interest
 rate swaps to convert its fixed-
rate funding to floating-rate. Deci
sions to convert fixed-rate funding 
to floating are made primarily through consideration of the 
asset/liability mix of the Bancorp, the desired asset/liability 
sensitivity and interest rate levels. As of December 31, 2012 and 

2011, certain interest rate swaps met
 the criteria required to qualify 
for the shortcut method of accounting. Based on this shortcut 

method of accounting treatment, no ineffectiveness is assumed. For 

interest rate swaps that do not meet the shortcut requirements, an 

assessment of hedge effectiveness using regression analysis was 
performed and such swaps were accounted for using the ﬁlong-
haulﬂ method. The long-haul 
method requires a quarterly 
assessment of hedge effectiveness and measurement of 

ineffectiveness. For interest rate 
swaps accounted for as a fair value 
hedge using the long-haul method, 
ineffectiveness is the difference 
between the changes in the fair value of the interest rate swap and 

changes in fair value of the related hedged item attributable to the 

risk being hedged. The ineffectiveness on interest rate swaps 

hedging fixed-rate funding is reported within interest expense in the 

Consolidated Statements of Income.   
 The following table reflects the change in f
air value of interest rate contracts, desi
gnated as fair value hedges, as well as t
he change in fair value o
f the related hedged items attributable to the risk being he
dged, included in the Consolidated Statements of Income: 
     Consolidated Statements of Income 
Caption 
     For the year ended December 31 ($ in millions) 
 2012 
 2011 
 2010  
Interest rate contracts: 
       Change in fair value of interest rate swaps hedging long-term debt 
 Interest on long-term debt 
$  (104)
 220 
 167 
     Change in fair value of hedged long-term debt attributable to the risk being hedged
 Interest on long-term debt 
  107 
 (227)
 (168)
     Change in fair value of interest rate swaps hedging time deposits 
 Interest on deposits 
  - 
 - 
 6 
     Change in fair value of hedged time deposits 
 Interest on deposits 
  - 
 - 
 (6)
    Cash Flow Hedges 
The Bancorp may enter into interest rate swaps to convert floating-
rate assets and liabilities to fixed ra
tes or to hedge certain forecasted 
transactions. The assets or liabilities may be grouped in 

circumstances where they share the same risk exposure for which 
the Bancorp desired to hedge. The Bancorp may also enter into 
interest rate caps and floors to limit cash flow variability of floating 

rate assets and liabilities. As of December 31, 2012, all hedges 

designated as cash flow hedges are assessed for effectiveness using 

regression analysis. Ineffectiveness is generally measured as the 

amount by which the cumulative change in the fair value of the 

hedging instrument exceeds the present value of the cumulative 
change in the hedged item™s expected cash flows attributable to the 
risk being hedged. Ineffectiveness is reported within other 
noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The 

effective portion of the cumulati
ve gains or losses on cash flow 
hedges are reported within accumulated other comprehensive 

income and are reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive 

income to current period earnings 
when the forecasted transaction 
affects earnings. As of December 31, 2012, the maximum length of 

time over which the Bancorp is hedging its exposure to the 
variability in future cash flows is 38 months. 
 Reclassified gains and losses on interest rate contracts related 
to commercial and industrial loans 
are recorded within interest 
income while reclassified gains and losses on interest rate contracts 

related to long-term debt are record
ed within interest expense in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income. As of December 31, 2012 and 
2011, $50 million and $80 million, respectively, of deferred gains, 
net of tax, on cash flow hedges were recorded in accumulated other 

comprehensive income in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of 

December 31, 2012, $20 million in net deferred gains, net of tax, 

recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income are expected 

to be reclassified into earnings
 during the next twelve months 
primarily due to the benefit of intere
st rate floors that mature during 
the second quarter of 2013. During 2012, there were no gains or 
losses reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income 
into earnings associated with 
the discontinuance of cash flow 
hedges because it was probable that the original forecasted 

transaction would not occur. Duri
ng 2011, $11 million of losses 
were reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income 

into noninterest expense as it wa
s determined that the original 
forecasted transaction was no long
er probable of occurring by the 
end of the originally specified time period or within the additional 
period of time as defined by U.S. GAAP. 
 The following table presents the net gains recorded in the Cons
olidated Statements of Income and the Consolidated Statements o
f Comprehensive Income relating to derivative in
struments designated as cash flow hedges: 
   For the year ended December 31 ($ in millions)
 2012 
 2011 
 2010  
Amount of net gain recognized in OCI 
$ 37 
 89 
 2 
Amount of net gain reclassified from OCI into net income
   83 
 69 
 60 
Amount of ineffectiveness recognized in other noninterest income
   - 
 1 
 6 
 Free-Standing Derivative Instruments Œ Risk Management 
and Other Business Purposes 
As part of its overall risk management strategy relative to its 

mortgage banking activity, the Ba
ncorp may enter into various free-
standing derivatives (principal-only 
swaps, interest rate swaptions, 
interest rate floors, mortgage opti
ons, TBAs and interest rate swaps) 
to economically hedge changes in fair value of its largely fixed-rate 

MSR portfolio. Principal-only sw
aps hedge the mortgage-LIBOR 
spread because these swaps appreciate in value as a result of 

tightening spreads. Principal-only swaps also provide prepayment 
protection by increasing in value when prepayment speeds increase, 
as opposed to MSRs that lose value in a faster prepayment 

environment. Receive fixed/pay floating interest rate swaps and 

swaptions increase in value when interest rates do not increase as 
quickly as expected.  The Bancorp enters into forward contracts and mortgage 

options to economically hedge the change in fair value of certain 

residential mortgage loans held for 
sale due to changes in interest 
rates. Interest rate lock commitmen
ts issued on residential mortgage 
loan commitments that will be held
 for sale are also considered free-
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  119  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 standing derivative instruments an
d the interest rate exposure on 
these commitments is economically 
hedged primarily with forward 
contracts. Revaluation gains and losses from free-standing 

derivatives related to mortgage banking activity are recorded as a 
component of mortgage banking net revenue in the Consolidated 
Statements of Income. 

 Additionally, as part of the 
Bancorp™s overall risk management 
strategy with respect to minimizing  significant fluctuations in 

earnings and cash flows caused by interest rate and prepayment 

volatility, the Bancorp may enter 
into free-standing derivative 
instruments (options, swaptions and 
interest rate swaps). The gains 
and losses on these derivative contracts are recorded within other 
noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
 In conjunction with the sale of the processing business in 2009, 
the Bancorp received warrants and 
issued put options, which are 
accounted for as free-standing deri
vatives. The put options expired 
as a result of the Vantiv, Inc. in
itial public offering in March of 
2012. Refer to Note 26 for further discussion of significant inputs 
and assumptions used in the valuation of these instruments. 

 In conjunction with the sale of Visa, Inc. Class B shares in 

2009, the Bancorp entered into a to
tal return swap in which the 
Bancorp will make or receive payments based on subsequent 

changes in the conversion rate of the Class B shares into Class A 

shares. This total return swap is
 accounted for as a free-standing 
derivative. See Note 26 for further 
discussion of significant inputs 
and assumptions used in the valuation of this instrument.  
 The net gains (losses) recorded in the Cons
olidated Statements of Income relating to 
free-standing derivative instruments used 
for risk management and other business purposes ar
e summarized in the following table: 
    Consolidated Statements of Income 
Caption 
    For the year ended December 31 ($ in millions) 
 2012 
 2011 
 2010  
Interest rate contracts: 
      Forward contracts related to mortgage loans held for sale 
Mortgage banking net revenue 
$  28 
 (128)
 40 
     Interest rate contracts related to MSRs 
Mortgage banking net revenue 
  63 
 345 
 109 
     Interest rate swaps related to long-term debt 
Other noninterest income 
  2 
 7 
 2 
Equity contracts: 
       Stock warrants associated with sale of the processing business 
Other noninterest income 
  66 
 32 
 4 
     Put options associated with sale of the processing business 
Other noninterest income 
  1 
 7 
 1 
     Swap associated with sale of Visa, Inc. Class B shares 
Other noninterest income 
  (45)
 (83)
 (19)
   Free-Standing Derivative Instruments Œ Customer 
Accommodation 
The majority of the free-standing derivative instruments the 
Bancorp enters into are for the benefit of its commercial customers. 
These derivative contracts are not designated against specific assets 

or liabilities on the Bancorp™s Consolidated Balance Sheets or to 

forecasted transactions and, th
erefore, do not qualify for hedge 
accounting. These instruments incl
ude foreign exchange derivative 
contracts entered into for the benefit of commercial customers 

involved in international trade to
 hedge their exposure to foreign 
currency fluctuations and commodity
 contracts to hedge such items 
as natural gas and various other de
rivative contracts. The Bancorp 
may economically hedge significant exposures related to these 

derivative contracts entered into for the benefit of customers by 

entering into offsetting contracts with approved, reputable, 

independent counterparties with 
substantially matching terms. The 
Bancorp hedges its interest ra
te exposure on commercial customer 
transactions by executing offsetti
ng swap agreements with primary 
dealers. Revaluation gains and losses on interest rate, foreign 
exchange, commodity and other commercial customer derivative 
contracts are recorded as a component of corporate banking 

revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  
 The Bancorp enters into risk participation agreements, under 
which the Bancorp assumes credit exposure relating to certain 

underlying interest rate deriva
tive contracts. The Bancorp only 
enters into these risk participati
on agreements in instances in which 
the Bancorp has participated in the loan that the underlying interest 

rate derivative contract was designed to hedge. The Bancorp will 

make payments under these agreements
 if a customer defaults on its 
obligation to perform under the terms of the underlying interest rate 

derivative contract. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the total 

notional amount of the risk participation agreements was $1.0 

billion and $808 million, respectively, and the fair value was a 
liability of $2 million at both December 31, 2012 and 2011, which is 
included in interest rate contracts for customers. As of December 

31, 2012, the risk participation agreements had an average life of 3.0 

years. 
 The Bancorp™s maximum exposure in the risk participation 

agreements is contingent on the fair value of the underlying interest 

rate derivative contracts in an a
sset position at the time of default. 
The Bancorp monitors the credit risk associated with the underlying 
customers in the risk participation agreements through the same risk 
grading system currently utilized for 
establishing loss reserves in its 
loan and lease portfolio.  Risk ratings of the notional amount of ri
sk participation agreements under this risk
 rating system are summarized in the follow
ing table:    At December 31 ($ in millions)
  2012  
2011 
 Pass 
$  993 
 772
Special mention 
  - 
 14
Substandard 
  13 
 18
Doubtful 
  - 
 4Total 
$  1,006 
 808
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  120  Fifth Third Bancorp 
The net gains (losses) recorded in the Consolidated Statements 
of Income relating to free-standing
 derivative instruments used 
for customer 
accommodation are summarized in the following table:
    For the year ended December 31
 Consolidated Statements of 
Income Caption 
   ($ in millions) 
 2012 
 2011 
 2010 
Interest rate contracts: 
      Interest rate contracts for customers (contract revenue) 
Corporate banking revenue 
$  30
 28 
 26 
     Interest rate contracts for customers (credit losses) 
Other noninterest expense 
  (2)
 (13)
 (22)
     Interest rate contracts for customers (credit portion of fair value adjustment) 
Other noninterest expense 
  6 13 
 (1)
     Interest rate lock commitments 
Mortgage banking net revenue 
  417
 206 
 187 
Commodity contracts: 
       Commodity contracts fo
r customers (contract revenue) Corporate banking revenue 
  7 8 
 8 
     Commodity contracts for customers (credit portion of fair value adjustment) 
Other noninterest expense 
  2 - 
 - 
Foreign exchange contracts: 
       Foreign exchange contract
s - customers (contract revenue) 
Corporate banking revenue 
  65
 47 
 63 
     Foreign exchange contracts - customers (credit portion of fair value adjustment) 
Other noninterest expense 
  2 1 
 (1)
 13. OTHER ASSETS 
The following table provides the components of other assets in
cluded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31:
  ($ in millions)
  2012 
2011 
Derivative instruments 
$1,972 
2,356 
Partnership investments 
 1,657 
1,413 
Bank owned life insurance 
 1,547 
1,742 
Accounts receivable an
d drafts-in-process  1,155 955 
Investment in Vantiv Holding, LLC 
 563 
576 
Bankers' acceptances  398 
726 
Accrued interest receivable 
 369 
382 
OREO and other repossessed personal property 
 329 
442 
Prepaid expenses 
 80 
84 
Income tax receivable 
 10 5 Other  124 182 
Total  
$8,204 
8,863 
 The Bancorp incorporates the utilization of derivative instruments 
as part of its overall risk managemen
t strategy to reduce certain risks 
related to interest rate, prepaymen
t and foreign currency volatility. The Bancorp also holds derivatives instruments for the benefit of its 
commercial customers. For further information on derivative 
instruments, see Note 12.  
CDC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Bancorp, was created 
to invest in projects to create a
ffordable housing, revitalize business 
and residential areas, and preserve
 historic landmarks, which are 
included above in partnership inve
stments. In addition, the Bancorp 
invests as a limited partner in priv
ate equity funds. The Bancorp has 
determined that these entities are VIEs and the Bancorp™s 
investments represent variable in
terests. See Note 10 for further 
information.  The Bancorp purchases life insurance policies on the lives of 
certain directors, officers and employees and is the owner and 

beneficiary of the policies. Certain 
BOLI policies have a stable value 
agreement through either a large, we
ll-rated bank or multi-national 
insurance carrier that provides limited cash surrender value 

protection from declines in the value of each policy™s underlying 
investments. See Note 1 for further information.  On June 30, 2009, the Bancorp sold an approximate 51% 
interest in Vantiv Holding, LLC 
to Advent International.  During 
the first quarter of 2012, Vantiv, Inc. priced an IPO of its shares 
and contributed the net proceeds to Vantiv Holding, LLC for 

additional ownership interests. As 
a result of this offering, the 
Bancorp™s ownership of Vantiv Holding, LLC was reduced to 
approximately 39%. In addition, the Bancorp sold an approximate 
6% interest during the fourth quarter of 2012. The Bancorp™s 

remaining approximate 33% ownershi
p in Vantiv Holding, LLC is 
accounted for under the equity method of accounting. See Note 18 

for further information. A bankers™ acceptance is created when a time draft is drawn on 
and accepted by a bank. By accepting the draft, the bank assumes 

the credit risk of the underlying obligor, usually the buyer or the 
seller of goods or their bank, and makes an unconditional promise 
to pay the holder of the draft the amount of the draft at maturity, 

which is generally less than one yea
r from the date of the draft. 
When the Bancorp is the accepting bank, it records the full amount 

of the acceptance in both other assets and other liabilities on the 

Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
OREO represents property acquired through foreclosure or 
other proceedings and is carried at the lower of cost or fair value, 
less costs to sell. See Note 1 for further information.
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  121  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 14. SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS Borrowings with original maturities 
of one year or less are classified 
as short term, and include federal funds purchased and other short-
term borrowings. Federal funds purchased are excess balances in 
reserve accounts held at FRBs that the Bancorp purchased from 
other member banks on an overnight basis. Other short-term 
borrowings include securities sold under repurchase agreements, 
derivative collateral, FHLB advances and other borrowings with 
original maturities of one year or less.   
 A summary of short-term borrowings 
and weighted-average rates follows:
    2012 
 2011 
  ($ in millions) 
 Amount  
Rate 
Amount
Rate 
As of December 31: 
          Federal funds purchased 
$901 
0.10% 
$346 
0.04% 
     Other short-term borrowings 
 6,280 
0.15  
 3,239 
0.09  
Average for the years ended December 31: 
           Federal funds purchased 
$560 
0.14% 
$345 
0.11% 
     Other short-term borrowings 
 4,246 
0.18  
 2,777 
0.12  
Maximum month-end balance for 
the years ended December 31: 
           Federal funds purchased 
$901 
 $451 
      Other short-term borrowings 
 6,330 
  4,894 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  122  Fifth Third Bancorp 
15. LONG-TERM DEBT 
The following table is a summary of the Bancorp™s long-term borrowings at December 31:
   ($ in millions)
 Maturity
 Interest Rate 
2012 
 2011 
 Parent Company
      Senior:
           Fixed-rate notes
 2013 
 6.25% 
$758 
779 
     Fixed-rate notes 
2016 
 3.625% 
999 
 1,000 
     Fixed-rate notes 
2022
 3.50% 
497 
 - 
Subordinated:
(b)           Floating-rate notes
 2016 
 0.73% 
250 
250 
     Fixed-rate notes 
2017 
 5.45% 
583 
589 
     Fixed-rate notes 
2018 
 4.50% 
584 
581 
     Fixed-rate notes 
2038 
 8.25% 
1,330 
1,348 
Junior subordinated:
(a)           Fixed-rate notes
(c) 2067 
 6.50% 
750 
750 
     Fixed-rate notes
(c)     - 
594 
     Fixed-rate notes
(c)     - 
894 
Structured repurchase agreements: 
          Floating-rate notes
     - 
 250 
     Floating-rate notes 
    - 
 125 
Subsidiaries      Senior:
           Floating-rate bank notes
 2013 
 0.42% 
500 
500 
Subordinated:
(b)           Fixed-rate bank notes
 2015 
 4.75% 
546 
561 
Junior subordinated:
(a)           Floating-rate debentures
 2035 
 1.73% - 2.00% 
50 
62 
FHLB advances 2014-2041
 0.05% - 8.34% 
 53 
1,055 
Notes associated with consolidated VIEs: 
          Automobile loan securitizations:
                Fixed-rate notes
     - 
2           Floating-rate notes 
    - 
169 
     Home equity securitization: 
               Floating-rate notes
     - 
22 
Other 2013-2039
 Varies  185 
151 
Total 
  $7,085 
9,682 
(a) Qualify as Tier I capital for regulatory capital 
purposes. See Note 27 for further information. 
(b) Qualify as Tier II capital for regulatory capital purposes.  
(c) Future periods of debt are floating. 
 The Bancorp pays down long-term debt in accordance with contract
ual terms over maturity periods 
summarized in the above table. 
The aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt obligat
ions (based on final maturity dates) as 
of December 31, 2012, are presented in the f
ollowing table: 
 ($ in millions)
  Parent Subsidiaries 
Total 
     2013 
$758 
519 
1,277 
     2014 
 - 
38 
38 
     2015 
 - 
560 
560 
     2016 
1,249 
10 
1,259 
     2017 
583 
 86 
669 
Thereafter 3,161 
121 
3,282 
Total  
$5,751 
1,334 
7,085 
     At December 31, 2012, the Bancorp had outstanding principal 
balances of $6.5 billion, net disc
ounts of $20 million and additions 
for mark-to-market adjustments on 
its hedged debt of $555 million. 
At December 31, 2011, the Bancorp had outstanding principal 
balances of $9.0 billion, net disc
ounts of $18 million and additions 
for mark-to-market adjustments on 
its hedged debt of $662 million. 
The Bancorp was in compliance with all debt covenants at 

December 31, 2012. 
  
 PARENT COMPANY LONG-TERM BORROWINGS
  Senior Notes 
In April 2008, the Bancorp issued $750 million of senior notes to 
third party investors. The senior notes bear a fixed rate of interest of 

6.25% per annum. The Bancorp entered into interest rate swaps to 

convert $675 million to floating rate and, at December 31, 2012 and 

2011, paid a rate of 2.72% and 2.84%, respectively. The notes are 

unsecured, senior obligations of 
the Bancorp. Payment of the full 
principal amount of the notes will be due upon maturity on May 1, 
2013. The notes are not subject to redemption at the Bancorp's 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  123  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 option at any time prior to maturity.  
On January 25, 2011, the Bancorp issued $1.0 billion of senior 
notes to third party investors. The senior notes bear a fixed rate of 

interest of 3.625% per annum. The notes are unsecured, senior 
obligations of the Bancorp. Payment of the full principal amounts 
of the notes is due upon maturi
ty on January 25, 2016. The notes 
are not subject to redemption at 
the Bancorp™s option at any time 
prior to maturity. On March 7, 2012, the Bancorp issued $500 million of senior 
notes to third party investors, and entered into a Supplemental 

Indenture dated March 7, 2012 with the Trustee, which modified 

the existing Indenture for Senior
 Debt Securities dated April 30, 
2008. The Supplemental Indenture and the Indenture define the 
rights of the senior notes, which senior notes are represented by a 

Global Security dated as of March 7, 2012. The senior notes bear a 

fixed rate of interest of 3.50% per annum. The notes are unsecured, 

senior obligations of the Bancorp. Payment of the full principal 

amounts of the notes will be due 
upon maturity on March 15, 2022. 
The notes are not subject to red
emption at the Bancorp™s option at 
any time until 30 days prior to maturity. 
 Subordinated Debt 
The subordinated floating-rate notes due in 2016 pay interest at 

three-month LIBOR plus 42 bps. The Bancorp has entered into 

interest rate swaps to convert it
s subordinated fixed-rate notes due 
in 2017 and 2018 to floating-rate, which pay interest at three-month 

LIBOR plus 42 bps and 25 bps, respectively, at December 31, 2012. 

The rates paid on the swaps hedgin
g the subordinated floating-rate 
notes due in 2017 and 2018 were 0.76% and 0.56%, respectively, at 
December 31, 2012. Of the $1.0 billion in 8.25% subordinated fixed 

rate notes due in 2038, $705 million were subsequently hedged to 

floating and paid a rate of 3.36% at December 31, 2012.   
 Junior Subordinated Debt 
The 6.50% junior subordinated notes due in 2067, with a carrying 

and outstanding principal balance of $750 million at December 31, 
2012 and 2011, pay a fixed rate of 6.
50% until 2017, then convert to 
a floating rate at three-month LIBOR plus 137 bps until 2047. 

Thereafter, the notes pay a floating rate at one-month LIBOR plus 

237 bps. The obligations were issued to Fifth Third Capital Trust 

IV. Consistent with the 2012 CCAR plan, the Bancorp redeemed 
all $575 million of the outstanding TruPS issued by Fifth Third 

Capital Trust V on August 15, 2012. The Fifth Third Capital Trust 
V securities had a distribution 
rate of 7.25% and a scheduled 
maturity date of August 15, 2067, and were redeemable at any time 

on or after August 15, 2012. The redemption price was $25 per 

security, which reflected 100% of the liquidation amount, plus 

accrued and unpaid distributions through the actual redemption 

date of $0.453125 per security. The Bancorp recognized a $17 

million loss on extinguishment within
 other noninterest expense in 
the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Additionally, the Bancorp redeemed all $862.5 million of the 
outstanding TruPS issued by Fifth Third Capital Trust VI on 

August 8, 2012. These securities 
had a distribution rate of 7.25% 
and a scheduled maturity date of November 15, 2067. Pursuant to 

the terms of the TruPS, the securi
ties of Fifth Third Capital Trust 
VI were redeemable within ninety days of a Capital Treatment 

Event. The Bancorp determined 
that a Capital Treatment Event 
occurred upon the authorization for publication in the Federal 
Register of a Joint Notice of Proposed Rulemaking by the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the FDIC and the Office 

of the Comptroller of the Currency addressing, among other 

matters, Section 171 of the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010 and providing 

detailed information regarding th
e cessation of Tier I capital 
treatment for outstanding TruPS. The redemption price was $25 per 
security, which reflected 100% of the liquidation amount, plus 

accrued and unpaid distributions through the actual redemption 

date of $0.422917 per security. The Bancorp recognized a $9 million 
loss on extinguishment within other noninterest expense in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income. 
The Bancorp fully and unconditionally guaranteed all 
obligations under the trust preferred securities issued by Fifth Third 

Capital Trusts IV, V and VI. In addition, the Bancorp entered into 

replacement capital covenants for the benefit of holders of long-

term debt senior to the junior su
bordinated notes that limits, subject 
to certain restrictions, the Bancorp™s ability to redeem the junior 
subordinated notes prior to their 
scheduled maturity. In November 
2010, the Bancorp amended the debt covenants to remove a 

requirement to issue replacement capit
al securities at least 180 days 
prior to calling the trust preferred securities. 
 Structured Repurchase Agreements 
In order to meet its funding obligations, the Bancorp enters into 

repurchase agreements with customers, which are accounted for as 
collateralized financing transactions, where excess customer funds 
are borrowed overnight by the Bancorp, and later repurchased by 

the customers. On March 29, 2012, the Bancorp terminated $375 million of 
structured repurchase agreements c
lassified as long-term debt. As a 
result of these terminations in th
e first quarter of 2012, the Bancorp 
recorded a $9 million loss on extinguishment within other 

noninterest expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
 SUBSIDIARY LONG-TERM BORROWINGS 
 Senior and Subordinated Debt 
Medium-term senior notes and subordinated bank notes with 
maturities ranging from one year to
 30 years can be issued by the 
Bancorp™s banking subsidiary, of 
which $1.0 billion was outstanding 
at December 31, 2012 and 2011 with $19.0 billion available for 

future issuance. The senior floati
ng-rate bank notes due in 2013 pay 
a floating rate at three-month LIBOR plus 11 bps. For the 

subordinated fixed-rate bank notes due in 2015, the Bancorp 

entered into interest rate swaps to
 convert the fixed-rate debt into 
floating rate. At December 31, 2012, the weighted-average rate paid 
on the swaps was 0.41%.  
 Junior Subordinated Debt 
The junior subordinated floating-r
ate bank notes due in 2035 were 
assumed by the Bancorp™s banking subsidiary as part of the 

acquisition of First Charter in 
May 2008. The obligation was issued 
to First Charter Capital Trust I an
d II, respectively. The notes of 
First Charter Capital Trust I and II pay floating at three-month 
LIBOR plus 169 bps and 142 bps, respectively. The Bancorp has 
fully and unconditionally guaranteed all obligations under the 

acquired trust preferred securities
 issued by First Charter Capital 
Trust I and II.  
 FHLB Advances 
At December 31, 2012, FHLB advances have rates ranging from 

0.05% to 8.34%, with interest pa
yable monthly. The advances are 
secured by certain residential mortga
ge loans and securities totaling 
$19.1 billion. On December 7, 2012 the Bancorp terminated a $1.0 

billion FHLB advance with a fixed rate of 4.56% and a maturity date 

of January 5, 2016. As a result, the Bancorp recognized a $134 

million loss on extinguishment within
 other noninterest expense in 
the Consolidated Statements of
 Income. The $53 million in 
remaining advances mature as fo
llows: $3 million in 2014, $4 million 
in 2015, $4 million in 2016, and $42 million thereafter. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  124  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Notes Associated with
 Consolidated VIEs 
As previously discussed in Note 10, the Bancorp was determined to 
be the primary beneficiary of VIEs associated with certain 
automobile loan and home equity 
securitizations and, effective 
January 1, 2010, these VIEs were 
consolidated in the Bancorp™s 
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 On February 8, 2012, the Bancorp exercised cleanup call 
options on an automobile securi
tization conduit and an isolated 
trust and acquired all remaining auto
mobile loans, the proceeds of 
which were used by the conduit and trust to repay outstanding debt. 

On April 12, 2012, the Bancorp exercised its cleanup call option on 
the home equity isolated trust 
and acquired all remaining home 
equity loans, the proceeds of which were used by the trust to repay 

outstanding debt. On September 17, 2012, the Bancorp exercised its 

cleanup call option on the remainin
g automobile securitization 
conduit and acquired all remaining 
automobile loans, the proceeds 
of which were used by the conduit to repay outstanding debt. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  125  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 16. COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND GUARANTEES 
The Bancorp, in the normal course 
of business, enters into financial 
instruments and various agreements to meet the financing needs of 
its customers. The Bancorp also enters into certain transactions and 
agreements to manage its interest rate and prepayment risks, provide 

funding, equipment and locations fo
r its operations and invest in its 
communities. These instruments and 
agreements involve, to varying 
degrees, elements of credit risk, counterparty risk and market risk in 
excess of the amounts recognized in the Bancorp™s Consolidated 
Balance Sheets. The creditworthiness of counterparties for all 
instruments and agreements is evaluated on a case-by-case basis in 
accordance with the Bancorp™s credit policies. The Bancorp™s 

significant commitments, continge
nt liabilities and guarantees in 
excess of the amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance 

Sheets are discussed in further detail below: 
 Commitments
   The Bancorp has certain commitments to make future payments un
der contracts. The following ta
ble reflects a summary of signif
icant commitments as of December 31:
    ($ in millions)
  2012 
 2011 
 Commitments to extend credit 
$  53,403 
 47,719 
Forward contracts to sell mortgage loans 
  5,322 
 5,705 
Letters of credit 
  4,281 
 4,744 
Noncancelable lease obligations 
  769 
 851 
Capital commitments for private equity investments 
  121 
 166 
Purchase obligations 
  87 
 115 
Capital expenditures 
  29 
 41 
Capital lease obligations 
  24 
 26 
 Commitments to extend credit 
Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend, typically 
having fixed expiration dates or ot
her termination clauses that may 
require payment of a fee. Since many of the commitments to extend 

credit may expire without being 
drawn upon, the total commitment 
amounts do not necessarily represen
t future cash flow requirements. 
The Bancorp is exposed to credit risk in the event of 

nonperformance by the counterparty for the amount of the 

contract. Fixed-rate commitments 
are also subject to market risk 
resulting from fluctuations in interest rates and the Bancorp™s 
exposure is limited to the repla
cement value of those commitments. 
As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Bancorp had a reserve for 

unfunded commitments totaling $179 million and $181 million, 

respectively, included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance 

Sheets. The Bancorp monitors the credit risk associated with 

commitments to extend credit using the same risk rating system 

utilized within its loan and lease portfolio.  
 Risk ratings under this risk rating system are su
mmarized in the following table as of December 31: 
   ($ in millions)
  2012  
2011 
 Pass 
$  52,812 
 46,825 
Special mention 
  370 
 480 
Substandard 
  221 
 403 
Doubtful 
  - 
 11 
Total 
$  53,403 
 47,719 
 Forward contracts to sell mortgage loans 
The Bancorp enters into forward contracts to economically hedge 
the change in fair value of certain residential mortgage loans held 
for sale due to changes in interest rates. The outstanding notional 
amounts of these forward contracts are included in the summary of 
significant commitments table above for all periods presented. 
 Letters of credit
 Standby and commercial letters of credit are conditional commitments
 issued to guarantee the performance of a customer to a thi
rd party and 
expire as summarized in the following table as of December 31, 2012:
  ($ in millions)
   Less than 1 year
(a) $ 1,831 
1 - 5 years
(a)   2,407 
Over 5 years 
  43 
Total 
$ 4,281 
(a) Includes $60 and $4 issued on behalf of commercial customers to facilitate trade payments in U.S. dollars and foreign currencie
s which expire less than one year 
and between one and five years, 
respectively.   
 Standby letters of credit accounted for 99% of total letters of credit 

at December 31, 2012 compared to 98% at December 31, 2011 and 

are considered guarantees in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 

Approximately 49% and 54% of the total standby letters of credit 

were fully secured as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 

In the event of nonperformance by the customers, the Bancorp has 
rights to the underlying collater
al, which can include commercial 
real estate, physical plant and property, inventory, receivables, cash 

and marketable securities. At December 31, 2012 and 2011 the 

reserve related to these standby letters of credit was $4 million and 

$5 million, respectively, included in other liabilities in the 

Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Bancorp monitors the credit risk 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  126  Fifth Third Bancorp 
associated with letters of credit using the same risk ra
ting system utilized within its loan and lease portfolio.  
  Risk ratings under this risk rating system are 
summarized in the following table as of December 31:
   ($ in millions)
  2012  
2011 
 Pass 
$  3,902 
 4,338 
Special mention 
  129 
 149 
Substandard 
  223 
 254 
Doubtful 
  27 
 2 
Loss   - 
 1 
Total 
$  4,281 
 4,744 
  At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Bancorp had outstanding 
letters of credit that were suppor
ting certain securities issued as 
VRDNs. The Bancorp facilitates financing for its commercial 

customers, which consist of companies and municipalities, by 

marketing the VRDNs to investors. The VRDNs pay interest to 

holders at a rate of interest th
at fluctuates based upon market 
demand. The VRDNs generally have long-term maturity dates, but 
can be tendered by the holder for 
purchase at par value upon proper 
advance notice. When the VRDNs are tendered, a remarketing 

agent generally finds another investor to purchase the VRDNs to 

keep the securities outstanding 
in the market. As of December 31, 
2012 and 2011, FTS acted as the remarketing agent to issuers on 

$2.5 billion and $2.9 billion, respectively, of VRDNs. As 

remarketing agent, FTS is responsible for finding purchasers for 
VRDNs that are put by investors. The Bancorp issues letters of 
credit, as a credit enhancement, to the VRDNs remarketed by FTS, 

in addition to $345 million and $440 million in VRDNs remarketed 

by third parties at December 31, 
2012 and 2011, respectively. These 
letters of credit are included in 
the total letters of credit balance 
provided in the previous table.  

 
Noncancelable lease obligations and other commitments 
The Bancorp™s subsidiaries have entered into a number of 
noncancelable lease agreements. The minimum rental commitments 

under noncancelable lease agreements
 are shown in the summary of 
significant commitments table. The Bancorp has also entered into a 

limited number of agreements for work related to banking center 

construction and to purchase goods or services.  

 Contingent Liabilities 
 
Private mortgage reinsurance 
For certain mortgage loans originated by the Bancorp, borrowers 

may be required to obtain PMI provided by third-party insurers. In 

some instances, these insurers cede a portion of the PMI premiums 

to the Bancorp, and the Bancorp provides reinsurance coverage 

within a specified range of the total PMI coverage. The Bancorp™s 

reinsurance coverage typically ranges from 5% to 10% of the total 
PMI coverage. The Bancorp™s maximum exposure in the event of 
nonperformance by the underlying borrowers is equivalent to the 

Bancorp™s total outstanding reinsurance coverage, which was $58 

million at December 31, 2012 and $77 million at December 31, 

2011. As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Bancorp maintained a 

reserve of $18 million and $27 million, respectively, related to 

exposures within the reinsurance 
portfolio which was included in 
other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. During 2009, the Bancorp suspended the practice of providing reinsurance of private 
mortgage insurance for newly originated mortgage loans. In the 

second quarter of 2011, the Bancorp allowed one of its third-party 

insurers to terminate its reinsurance agreement with the Bancorp, 

resulting in the Bancorp releasin
g collateral to the insurer in the 
form of investment securities and other assets with a carrying value 

of $5 million, and the insurer assuming the Bancorp™s obligations 
under the reinsurance agreement, resulting in a decrease to the 
Bancorp™s reserve liability of $11 million and decrease in the 

Bancorp™s maximum exposure of $27 
million. In the fourth quarter 
of 2012, the Bancorp allowed one of its third-party insurers to 

terminate its reinsurance agreement with the Bancorp, resulting in 

the insurer assuming the Bancorp™s obligations under the 
reinsurance agreement, resulting in a decrease to the Bancorp™s 
reserve liability of $2 million and decrease in the Bancorp™s 

maximum exposure of $3 million. 

 
Legal claims 

There are legal claims pending against the Bancorp and its 

subsidiaries that have arisen in 
the normal course of business. See 
Note 17 for additional information regarding these proceedings. 
 Guarantees 
The Bancorp has performance obligations upon the occurrence of 
certain events under financial guarantees provided in certain 

contractual arrangements as discu
ssed in the following sections. 
 
Residential mortgage loans sold with representation and warranty provisions 
Conforming residential mortgage loans sold to unrelated third 
parties are generally sold with representation and warranty 
provisions. A contractual liability aris
es only in the event of a breach 
of these representations and warranties and, in general, only when a 

loss results from the breach. The Bancorp may be required to 

repurchase any previously sold loan or indemnify (make whole) the 

investor or insurer for which the representation or warranty of the 

Bancorp proves to be inaccurate
, incomplete or misleading.   
 The Bancorp establishes a residential mortgage repurchase 
reserve related to various represen
tations and warranties that reflects management™s estimate of losses ba
sed on a combination of factors. 
The Bancorp™s estimation process requires management to make 

subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently 

uncertain, such as, future demand
 expectations, economic factors 
and the specific characteristics of the loans subject to repurchase. 

Such factors incorporate historic
al investor audit and repurchase 
demand rates, appeals success rates, historical loss severity and any 
additional information obtained fr
om the GSEs regarding future 
mortgage repurchase and file request criteria. At the time of a loan 

sale, the Bancorp records a representation and warranty reserve at 

the estimated fair value of the Bancorp™s guarantee and continually 

updates the reserve during the life of the loan as losses in excess of 

the reserve become probable and reasonably estimable. The 

provision for the estimated fair value of the representation and 

warranty guarantee arising from the 
loan sales is recorded as an 
adjustment to the gain on sale, which is included in other 
noninterest income at the time of sale. Updates to the reserve are 

recorded in other noninterest expense. 

 As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Bancorp maintained 

reserves related to these loans so
ld with representation and warranty 
provisions totaling $110 million and $55 million, respectively, 

included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  127  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The Bancorp uses the best information available to it in 
estimating its mortgage repres
entation and warranty reserve, however, the estimation process is inherently uncertain and 

imprecise and, accordingly, losses in excess of the amounts accrued 
as of December 31, 2012, are reasonably possible. The Bancorp 
currently estimates that it is reasonably possible that it could incur 

losses related to mortgage representation and warranty provisions in 

an amount up to approximately 
$83 million in excess of amounts 
reserved. This estimate was derived by modifying the key 
assumptions discussed above to 
reflect management's judgment 
regarding reasonably possible adverse changes to those assumptions. 
The actual repurchase losses could vary significantly from the 
recorded mortgage representation and warranty reserve or this 
estimate of reasonably possibly lo
sses, depending on the outcome of 
various factors, including those noted above. 
  The following table summarizes activity in the re
serve for representation and warranty provisions:
  ($ in millions)
 2012 
2011 
Balance, beginning of period 
$ 55 
 85 
   Net additions to the reserve 
  107 
 52 
   Losses charged against the reserve 
  (52)
 (82)
Balance, end of period 
$ 110 
 55 
 The following table provides a rollforward of unresolved claims by claimant type for the year ended December 31, 2012:
     GSE  Private Label 
($ in millions) 
Units
Dollars
Units
Dollars
Balance, beginning of period 
 328 
$ 47 
 109 
$ 19 
   New demands 
 2,519 
  333 
 230 
  7 
   Loan paydowns/payoffs 
 (42)
  (7)
 (2)
  - 
   Resolved demands 
 (2,511)
  (325)
 (213)
  (7)
Balance, end of period 
 294 
$ 48 
 124 
$ 19 
 The following table provides a rollforward of unresolved claims by claimant type for the year ended December 31, 2011:
     GSE  Private Label 
($ in millions) 
Units
Dollars
Units
Dollars
Balance, beginning of period 
 845 
$ 150 
 71 
$ 11 
   New demands 
 2,050 
  328 
 107 
  22 
   Loan paydowns/payoffs 
 (21)
  (3)
 (2)
  - 
   Resolved demands 
 (2,546)
  (428)
 (67)
  (14)
Balance, end of period 
 328 
$ 47 
 109 
$ 19 
   Residential mortgage loans sold with credit recourse The Bancorp sold certain residential mortgage loans in the 
secondary market with credit recourse. In the event of any customer 
default, pursuant to the credit recourse provided, the Bancorp is 

required to reimburse the third party. The maximum amount of 

credit risk in the event of nonperformance by the underlying 

borrowers is equivalent to the 
total outstanding balance. In the 
event of nonperformance, the Bancorp has rights to the underlying 

collateral value securing the loan. 
The outstanding balances on these 
loans sold with credit recourse were $662 million and $772 million 
at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and the delinquency 
rates were 5.9% at December 31, 2012 and 6.7% at December 31, 

2011. The Bancorp maintained an estimated credit loss reserve on 

these loans sold with credit reco
urse of $20 million at December 31, 
2012 and $17 million at December 31, 2011 recorded in other 

liabilities in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheets. To determine the 
credit loss reserve, the Bancorp used an approach that is consistent 

with its overall approach in esti
mating credit losses for various 
categories of residential mortgage 
loans held in its loan portfolio.  
Margin accounts 

FTS, a subsidiary of the Bancorp,
 guarantees the collection of all 
margin account balances held by its brokerage clearing agent for the 

benefit of its customers. FTS is responsible for payment to its 

brokerage clearing agent for any loss, liability, damage, cost or 

expense incurred as a result of cu
stomers failing to comply with 
margin or margin maintenance 
calls on all margin accounts. The 
margin account balance held by th
e brokerage clearing agent was 
$17 million at December 31, 2012 and $14 million at December 31, 
2011. In the event of any customer default, FTS has rights to the 

underlying collateral provided. Given the existence of the underlying 

collateral provided and negligible
 historical credit losses, the 
Bancorp does not maintain a loss reserve related to the margin 

accounts. 
 
Long-term borrowing obligations The Bancorp had fully and unconditionally guaranteed certain long-
term borrowing obligations issued by wholly-owned issuing trust 

entities of $800 million and $2.2 billion as of December 31, 2012 

and 2011, respectively.  See Note 15 for further information on 

these long-term borrowing obligations.  

 
Visa litigation 
The Bancorp, as a member bank of Visa prior to Visa™s 
reorganization and IPO (the ﬁIPOﬂ) of its Class A common shares 
in 2008, had certain indemnification 
obligations pursuant to Visa™s 
certificate of incorporation and by
-laws and in accordance with their 
membership agreements. In accordance 
with Visa™s by-laws prior to 
the IPO, the Bancorp could have 
been required to indemnify Visa 
for the Bancorp™s proportional share of losses based on the pre-IPO 

membership interests. As part of its reorganization and IPO, the 

Bancorp™s indemnification obligati
on was modified to include only 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  128  Fifth Third Bancorp 
certain known litigation (the ﬁCovered Litigationﬂ) as of the date of 
the restructuring. This modification triggered a requirement to 

recognize a $3 million liability for the year ended December 31, 

2007 equal to the fair value of the indemnification obligation. 
Additionally during 2007, the Bancorp recorded $169 million for its 
share of litigation formally settled by Visa and for probable future 

litigation settlements. In conjunction with the IPO, the Bancorp 

received 10.1 million of Visa™s Class B shares based on the 

Bancorp™s membership percentage in Visa prior to the IPO. The 

Class B shares are not transferable (other than to another member 

bank) until the later of the third anniversary of the IPO closing or 

the date which the Covered Litigation has been resolved; therefore, 
the Bancorp™s Class B shares were classified in other assets and 
accounted for at their carryover 
basis of $0. Visa deposited $3 
billion of the proceeds from the IPO into a litigation escrow 

account, established for the purpose of funding judgments in, or 

settlements of, the Covered Litigati
on. If Visa™s litigation committee 
determines that the escrow accoun
t is insufficient, then Visa will 
issue additional Class A shares and deposit the proceeds from the 

sale of the shares into the litig
ation escrow account. When Visa 
funds the litigation escrow account, 
the Class B shares are subject to 
dilution through an adjustment in the conversion rate of Class B 

shares into Class A shares. Du
ring 2008, the Bancorp recorded 
additional reserves of $71 million for probable future settlements 

related to the Covered Litigation and recorded its proportional share 

of $169 million of the Visa escrow account net against the 

Bancorp™s litigation reserve. 

 During 2009, Visa announced 
it had deposited an additional 
$700 million into the litigation escrow account. As a result of this 
funding, the Bancorp recorded it
s proportional share of $29 million 
of these additional funds as a reduction to its net Visa litigation 

reserve liability and a reduction to noninterest expense. Later in 

2009, the Bancorp completed the sale of Visa, Inc. Class B shares 

for proceeds of $300 million. As part of this transaction the 

Bancorp entered into a total return swap in which the Bancorp will 

make or receive payments based on subsequent changes in the 
conversion rate of the Class B shares into Class A shares. The swap 
terminates on the later of the third anniversary of Visa™s IPO or the 

date on which the Covered Litigation is settled. The Bancorp 

calculates the fair value of the swap based on its estimate of the 

probability and timing of certain Covered Litigation settlement 

scenarios and the resulting payments related to the swap. The 
counterparty to the swap as a result of its ownership of the Class B 

shares will be impacted by dilutive adjustments to the conversion 
rate of the Class B shares into Class A shares caused by any Covered 
Litigation losses in excess of the litigation escrow account. If actual 

judgments in, or settlements of, th
e Covered Litigation significantly 
exceed current expectations, then a
dditional funding by Visa of the 
litigation escrow account and the resulting dilution of the Class B 

shares could result in a scenario where the Bancorp™s ultimate 

exposure associated with the Covered Litigation (the ﬁVisa 

Litigation Exposureﬂ) exceeds the 
value of the Class B shares 
owned by the swap counterparty (th
e ﬁClass B Valueﬂ). In the event 
the Bancorp concludes that it is 
probable that the Visa Litigation 
Exposure exceeds the Class B Value,
 the Bancorp would record a 
litigation reserve liability and a corresponding amount of other 

noninterest expense for the amount of the excess. Any such 

litigation reserve liability would be separate and distinct from the 

fair value derivative liability associated with the total return swap. 

 As of the date of the Bancorp™s sale of Visa Class B shares and 
through December 31, 2012, the Bancorp has concluded that it is 
not probable that the Visa Litiga
tion Exposure will exceed the Class 
B value. Based on this determinat
ion, upon the sale of Class B 
shares, the Bancorp reversed its net Visa litigation reserve liability 

and recognized a free-standing deriva
tive liability associated with the 
total return swap with an initial fair
 value of $55 million. The sale of 
the Class B shares, recognition of th
e derivative liability and reversal 
of the net litigation reserve liability resulted in a pre-tax benefit of 

$288 million ($187 million after-tax) recognized by the Bancorp for 
the year ended December 31, 2009. In the second and fourth 
quarters of 2010, Visa funded an additional $500 million and $800 

million, respectively, into the es
crow account which resulted in 
further dilution in the conversion 
of Class B shares into Class A 
shares and required the Bancorp to make cash payments of $20 

million and $35 million, respectively, (each of which reduced the 

swap liability) to the swap counte
rparty in accordance with the 
terms of the swap contract. In the second quarter of 2011, Visa 
funded an additional $400 million into
 the litigation escrow account. 
Upon Visa™s funding of the litigation escrow account in the second 

quarter of 2011, along with additional terms of the total return 

swap, the Bancorp made a $19 milli
on cash payment (which reduced 
the swap liability) to the swap co
unterparty. During the fourth 
quarter of 2011, Visa announced it
 decided to fund an additional 
$1.565 billion into the litigation es
crow account which increased the 
swap liability approximately $54 m
illion. Upon Visa™s funding of the 
litigation escrow account in the first quarter of 2012, along with 
additional terms of the total return swap, the Bancorp made a $75 

million cash payment (which reduced the swap liability) to the swap 

counterparty. On July 24, 2012, 
Visa funded an additional $150 
million into the litigation escrow a
ccount which resulted in further 
dilution in the conversion of Class B shares into Class A shares and 

required the Bancorp to make a $6 million cash payment (which 

reduced the swap liability) to the 
swap counterparty during the 
quarter ended September 30, 2012. The fair value of the swap 
liability was $33 million and $78 million as of December 31, 2012 

and 2011, respectively. Refer to Note 17 for further information. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  129  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 17. LEGAL AND REGULATORY PROCEEDINGS 
During April 2006, the Bancorp was added as a defendant in a 
consolidated antitrust class action lawsuit originally filed against 
Visa®, MasterCard® and several other major financial institutions in 
the United States District Court 
for the Eastern District of New 
York. The plaintiffs, merchants operating commercial businesses 

throughout the U.S. and trade associations, claim that the 

interchange fees charged by card-issuing banks are unreasonable and 

seek injunctive relief and unspecified damages. In addition to being 

a named defendant, the Bancorp is also subject to a possible 

indemnification obligation of Visa as discussed in Note 16 and has 
also entered into judgment and lo
ss sharing agreements with Visa, 
MasterCard and certain other named defendants. On October 19, 

2012, the parties to the litigation entered into a settlement 

agreement.  The court entered a Class Settlement Preliminary 

Approval Order on November 27, 2012.  Pursuant to the terms of 

the settlement agreement, the Bancor
p paid $46 million into a class 
settlement escrow account. Prev
iously, the Bancorp paid an 
additional $4 million in another 
settlement escrow in connection 
with the settlement of claims from
 plaintiffs not included in the 
class action. The Bancorp had no remaining reserves related to this 

litigation as of December 31, 2012 and reserves of $49 million as of 

December 31, 2011. Refer to Note 16 for further information 

regarding the Bancorp™s net litigation reserve and ownership interest 

in Visa.  
In September 2007, Ronald A. Katz Technology Licensing, 
L.P. (Katz) filed a suit in the Un
ited States District Court for the 
Southern District of Ohio against the Bancorp and its Ohio banking 
subsidiary. In the suit, Katz alleges that the Bancorp and its Ohio 

bank are infringing on Katz™s pate
nts for interactive call processing technology by offering certain automated telephone banking and 

other services. This lawsuit is one of many related patent 

infringement suits brought by Ka
tz in various courts against 
numerous other defendants. Katz is seeking unspecified monetary 

damages and penalties as well as
 injunctive relief in the suit. 
Management believes there are substantial defenses to these claims 
and intends to defend them vigorously. The impact of the final 

disposition of this lawsuit cannot
 be assessed at this time.  
For the year ended December 31, 2008, five putative securities 
class action complaints were filed 
against the Bancorp and its Chief 
Executive Officer, among other parties. The five cases have been 

consolidated under the caption Local 295/Local 851 IBT Employer 

Group Pension Trust and Welfare Fund v. Fifth Third Bancorp. et 
al., Case No. 1:08CV00421, and are currently pending in the United 
States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio. On 

December 18, 2012, the Bancorp entered into a settlement 

agreement to resolve these cases.  The settlement is subject to court 

approval. Under the terms of the settlement, the Bancorp and its 

insurer will pay a total of $16 million to a fund to settle all the claims 

of the class members.  In the settlement the Bancorp has denied any 

liability and has agreed to the settlement in order to avoid potential 
future litigation costs and uncertainty
. The Bancorp does not 
consider the impact of the settlement to be material to its financial 

condition or results of operations. 
In addition to the foregoing, two 
cases were filed in the United States District Court for the Southern 

District of Ohio against the Bancorp and certain officers alleging 

violations of ERISA based on allegations similar to those set forth 

in the securities class action case
s filed during the same period of 
time. The two cases alleging violations of ERISA were dismissed by 
the trial court, but the Sixth Circ
uit Court of Appeals recently 
reversed the trial court decision.  The Bancorp intends to petition 

the Supreme Court to review and reverse the Sixth Circuit decision 

and seek a stay of proceedings in
 the trial court pending appeal. The 
impact of the final disposition of these ERISA lawsuits cannot be 
assessed at this time.  
The Bancorp and its subsidiaries are not parties to any other 
material litigation. However, there are other litigation matters that 

arise in the normal course of busi
ness. While it is impossible to 
ascertain the ultimate resolution or range of financial liability with 

respect to these contingent matters, management believes any 

resulting liability from these other actions would not have a material 

effect upon the Bancorp™s consolidat
ed financial position, results of 
operations or cash flows.  
The Bancorp and/or its affiliates are or may become involved 
from time to time in information-gathering requests, reviews, 

investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by 

government and self-regulatory agencies, including the SEC, 

regarding their respective businesse
s. Such matters may result in 
material adverse consequences, incl
uding without limitation, adverse 
judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, orders, injunctions or other 

actions, amendments and/or restatements of the Bancorp™s SEC 
filings and/or financial statements, as applicable, and/or 
determinations of material weaknesses in our disclosure controls 

and procedures. The SEC is inve
stigating and has made several 
requests for information, including by subpoena, and interviews of 

certain of our current and former officers and employees and 

others, concerning issues which the Bancorp understands relate to 

accounting and reporting matters involving certain of its 

commercial loans. This could lead 
to an enforcement proceeding by 
the SEC which, in turn, may result
 in one or more such material 
adverse consequences.  
The Bancorp is party to numerous claims and lawsuits 
concerning matters arising from the conduct of its business 

activities. The outcome of litigation and the timing of ultimate 

resolution are inherently difficult to predict.  The following factors, 

among others, contribute to this lack of predictability: plaintiff 

claims often include significant le
gal uncertainties, damages alleged 
by plaintiffs are often unspecified or overstated, discovery may not 
have started or may not be complete and material facts may be 

disputed or unsubstantiated.  As a result of these factors, the 

Bancorp is not always able to provide an estimate of the range of 

reasonably possible outcomes for each claim. A reserve for a 

potential litigation loss is established when information related to 

the loss contingency indicates both that a loss is probable and that 

the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Any such reserve is 
adjusted from time to time thereafter as appropriate to reflect 
changes in circumstances. The Bancorp also determines, when 

possible (due to the uncertainties described above), estimates of 

reasonably possible losses or ranges 
of reasonably possible losses, in 
excess of amounts reserved. Under U.S. GAAP, an event is 

ﬁreasonably possibleﬂ if ﬁthe chan
ce of the future event or events 
occurring is more than remote but 
less than likelyﬂ and an event is 
ﬁremoteﬂ if ﬁthe chance of the future event or events occurring is 
slight.ﬂ Thus, references to the upper end of the range of reasonably 
possible loss for cases in which the Bancorp is able to estimate a 

range of reasonably possible loss mean the upper end of the range 

of loss for cases for which the Bancorp believes the risk of loss is 

more than slight.  For matters where the Bancorp is able to estimate 

such possible losses or ranges 
of possible losses, the Bancorp 
currently estimates that it is reasonably possible that it could incur 

losses related to legal proceedings
 including the matters discussed 
above in an aggregate amount up to approximately $38 million in 
excess of amounts reserved, with it also being reasonably possible 

that no losses will be incurred in 
these matters.  The estimates 
included in this amount are based on the Bancorp™s analysis of 

currently available information, an
d as new information is obtained 
the Bancorp may change its estimates. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  130  Fifth Third Bancorp 
For these matters and others where an unfavorable outcome is 
reasonably possible but not probabl
e, there may be a range of 
possible losses in excess of the established reserve that cannot be 

estimated.  Based on information currently available, advice of 
counsel, available insurance covera
ge and established reserves, the 
Bancorp believes that the eventual outcome of the actions against 

the Bancorp and/or its subsidiaries, including the matters described 
above, will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material 

adverse effect on the Bancorp™s co
nsolidated financial position.  
However, in the event of unexpect
ed future developments, it is 
possible that the ultimate resolution 
of those matters, if unfavorable, 
may be material to the Bancorp™
s results of operations for any 
particular period, depending, in 
part, upon the size of the loss or 
liability imposed and the operating re
sults for the applicable period. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  131  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 18. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
The Bancorp maintains written policies and procedures covering 
related party transactions to principal shareholders, directors and 
executives of the Bancorp. These procedures cover transactions 
such as employee-stock purchase 
loans, personal lines of credit, 
residential secured loans, overdrafts, letters of credit and increases in 

indebtedness. Such transactions are subject to the Bancorp™s normal 

underwriting and approval procedures
. Prior to the closing of a loan 
to a related party, Compliance Risk Management must approve and 
determine whether the transaction requires approval from or a post 
notification be sent to the Bancorp™s Board of Directors. At 
December 31, 2012 and 2011, certain di
rectors, executive officers, 
principal holders of Bancorp common stock, associates of such 

persons, and affiliated companies of
 such persons were indebted, 
including undrawn commitments to lend, to the Bancorp™s banking 

subsidiary.  The following table summarizes the Bancorp™s activities with its 
principal shareholders, directors and executives at December 3
1:   ($ in millions)
  2012 
2011 
Commitments to lend, net of participations: 
   Directors and their affiliated companies 
$364 
254 
Executive officers  3 5 Total 
$367 
259 
    Outstanding balance on loans, net of participations and undrawn commitments 
$93 
172 
 The commitments to lend are in the form of loans and guarantees 
for various business and personal interests. This indebtedness was 

incurred in the ordinary course of business on substantially the same 

terms, including interest rates an
d collateral, as those prevailing at 
the time for comparable transactions
 with unrelated parties. This 
indebtedness does not involve more than the normal risk of 

repayment or present other features unfavorable to the Bancorp.  
On June 30, 2009, the Bancorp completed the sale of a 
majority interest in its processing business, Vantiv Holding, LLC. 

Advent International acquired an
 approximate 51% interest in 
Vantiv Holding, LLC for cash an
d warrants. The Bancorp retained 
the remaining approximate 49% inte
rest in Vantiv Holding, LLC. 
During the first quarter of 2012, Va
ntiv, Inc. priced an IPO of its 
shares and contributed the net pro
ceeds to Vantiv Holding, LLC for 
additional ownership interests. As 
a result of this offering, the 
Bancorp™s ownership of Vantiv Holding, LLC was reduced to 

approximately 39%.  The impact 
of the capital contributions to 
Vantiv Holding, LLC and the resu
lting dilution in the Bancorp™s 
interest resulted in a gain of $
115 million recognized by the Bancorp 
in the first quarter of 2012.  
The Bancorp™s ownership share in
 Vantiv was further reduced 
during the fourth quarter of 
2012 when the Bancorp sold an 
approximate 6% interest and recognized a $157 million gain. The 

Bancorp™s remaining approximate 33% ownership in Vantiv 

Holding, LLC is accounted for under the equity method of 

accounting and has a carrying value of $563 million as of December 

31, 2012. As of December 31, 2012, the Bancorp continued to hold 
approximately 70 million units of Vantiv Holding, LLC and a 
warrant to purchase approximately 20 million incremental Vantiv 

Holding, LLC non-voting units, both of which may be exchanged 

for common stock of Vantiv, Inc. on a one for one basis or at 

Vantiv, Inc.™s option for cash. 
In addition, the Bancorp holds 
approximately 70 million Class B 
common shares of Vantiv, Inc. 
The Class B common shares give the Bancorp voting rights, but no 

economic interest in Vantiv, Inc. Th
e voting rights attributable to 
the Class B common shares are limited to 18.5% of the voting 
power in Vantiv, Inc. at any time 
other than in connection with a 
stockholder vote with respect to a change in control in Vantiv, Inc. 

These securities are subject to 
certain terms and restrictions 
The Bancorp recognized $
61 million and $57 million, 
respectively, in noninterest income 
as part of its equity method 
investment in Vantiv Holding, LLC for the years ended December 

31, 2012 and 2011 and received distributions totaling $74 million 
and $3 million, respectively, during 2012 and 2011. The Bancorp and Vantiv Holding, LLC have various 
agreements in place covering services relating to the operations of 

Vantiv Holding, LLC. The services provided by the Bancorp to 
Vantiv Holding, LLC were required to support Vantiv Holding, 
LLC as a standalone entity during the deconversion period. These 

services involve transition support, including product development, 

risk management, legal, accounting and general business resources. 

Vantiv Holding, LLC paid the Bancorp $1 million and $21 million, 

respectively, for these services for the years ended December 31, 

2012 and 2011. Other services provided to Vantiv Holding, LLC by 

the Bancorp, which will continue beyond the deconversion period, 
include treasury management, clea
ring, settlement, sponsorship, and 
data center support. Vantiv Hold
ing, LLC paid the Bancorp $34 
million and $37 million, respectively, for these services for the years 

ended December 31, 2012 and 2011. In 
addition to the previously 
mentioned services, the Bancorp entered into an agreement under 

which Vantiv Holding, LLC will pr
ovide processing services to the 
Bancorp. The total amount of fees relating to the processing 

services provided to the Bancorp by Vantiv Holding, LLC totaled 
$83 million and $74 million, respectively, for the years ended 
December 31, 2012 and 2011.  
As part of the sale, Vantiv
 Holding, LLC assumed loans 
totaling $1.25 billion owed to the Bancorp. During the fourth 

quarter of 2010, Vantiv Holding, LLC refinanced its debt into a 

larger syndicated loan structure that included the Bancorp. The 

Bancorp recognized $4 million in syndication fees in 2010 

associated with the refinanced lo
an to Vantiv Holding, LLC. The 
outstanding balance of loans to 
Vantiv Holding, LLC was $325 
million and $377 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, 

respectively. Interest income relating to the loans was $11 million, 

$18 million and $102 million, respectively, for the years ended 

December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 and is
 included in interest and 
fees on loans and leases in the C
onsolidated Statements of Income. 
Vantiv Holding, LLC™s line of credit was $50 million as of 

December 31, 2012 and 2011. Vantiv 
Holding, LLC did not draw 
upon its lines of credit during the years ended December 31, 2012 
or 2011. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  132  Fifth Third Bancorp 
19.  INCOME TAXES 
The Bancorp and its subsidiaries file a consolidated federal in
come tax return. The following is a summary of applicable income
 taxes included in 
the Consolidated Statements of Income 
for the years ended December 31:   
    ($ in millions)
  2012 
2011 
2010 
Current income tax expense (benefit): 
         U.S. Federal income taxes 
$ 327 
82 
 (5)
     State and local income taxes 
 38 
14 
 16 
Total current tax expense  
 365 
96 
 11 
Deferred income tax expense  
         U.S. Federal income taxes 
 252 
411 
 165 
     State and local income taxes 
 19 26 
 11 
Total deferred income tax expense 
  271 
 437 
 176 
Applicable income tax expense  
$  636 
 533 
 187 
   The following is a reconciliation between the statutory U.S. Fede
ral income tax rate and the Bancorp™s effective tax rate for t
he years ended 
December 31:      ($ in millions)
  2012 
 2011 
2010 
Statutory tax rate 
 35.0 
%35.0 
35.0 
Increase (decrease) resulting from: 
         State taxes, net of federal benefit 
 1.7  1.4 
1.8 
     Tax-exempt income 
 (2.1) (1.4)
(3.6)
     Credits 
 (6.7) (7.3)
(14.1)
     Interest to taxing authority, net of tax 
  - 
  - 
(0.8)
     Other changes in 
unrecognized tax benefits 
  - 
  - 
(1.8)
     Unrealized stock-based compensation benefits 
 0.8 
 1.3 
2.5 
     Other, net 
 0.1  0.1 
0.8 
Effective tax rate 
 28.8 
%29.1 
19.8 
    Tax-exempt income in the rate reconciliation table includes interest 
on municipal bonds, interest on tax-exempt lending, 

income/charges on life insurance policies held by the Bancorp, and 

certain gains on sales of leases that are exempt from federal 

taxation.  
During 2010, the Bancorp settled its outstanding dispute with 
the IRS relating to a specific capi
tal raising transaction. This 
favorable settlement reduced income tax expense (including 

interest) by $19 million. During 2009, the Bancorp settled its 

outstanding dispute with the IRS re
lating to certain leveraged lease 
transactions. This favorable settlement reduced income tax expense 

(including interest) by $6 million for 2010. 
 The following table provides a summary of the Bancor
p™s unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31: 
  ($ in millions)
  2012 
2011
Tax positions that would impact the 
effective tax rate, if recognized 
$18 14Tax positions where the ultimate 
deductibility is highly certain, but for which th
ere is uncertainty abou
t the timing of the de
duction 
  - 
 -Unrecognized tax benefits
 $18 14 The following table provides a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of the Bancorp™s unrecognized tax benefits:    ($ in millions)
  2012 
2011 
2010 
Unrecognized tax benefits at January 1 
$ 14 16 
82 
Gross increases for tax positions taken during prior period 
 6 1 4 Gross decreases for tax positions taken during prior period 
 (3)(2)
(23)
Gross increases for tax positions taken during current period 
  2 
 - 
2 Settlements with taxing authorities 
  - 
 - 
(48)
Lapse of applicable statute of limitations 
 (1)(1)
(1)
Unrecognized tax bene
fits at December 31 
$ 18 14 
16 
   The Bancorp™s unrecognized tax be
nefits as of December 31, 2012 
and 2011 relate largely to state income tax exposures from taking tax 

positions where the Bancorp believes it is likely that, upon 

examination, a state will take a position contrary to the position 

taken by the Bancorp. 
Substantially all of the reduction 
of unrecognized tax benefits 
during 2010 related to the settlement of the Bancorp™s dispute with 
the IRS relating to the specific capital raising transaction mentioned 
previously.    While it is reasonably possible that the amount of the 
unrecognized tax benefit with resp
ect to certain of the Bancorp™s 
uncertain tax positions could increase
 or decrease during the next 12 
months, the Bancorp believes it is unlikely that its unrecognized tax 

benefits will change by a material amount during the next 12 
months. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  133  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Deferred income taxes are comprised of the following items at December 31: 
  ($ in millions)
  2012 
2011 
Deferred tax assets: 
        Allowance for loan and lease losses
 $649 
789 
     Deferred compensation 
 105 119 
     Impairment reserves 
 74 
102 
     Reserves 
 63 
70 
     Reserve for unfunded commitments 
 47 
63 
     State net operating losses 
 33 
63 
     Other 
 191 216 
Total deferred tax assets 
$1,162 1,422 
Deferred tax liabilities: 
       Lease financing 
$844 
853 
     Investments in joint ventures and partnership interests 
 470 
468 
     Other comprehensive income 
 202 
253 
     MSRs 
 162 173 
     Bank premises and equipment 
 108 95 
     State deferred taxes 
 64 
74 
     Other   
 155 130 
Total deferred tax liabilities 
$2,005 
2,046 
Total net deferred tax liability 
$(843)(624)
 At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the Bancorp had recorded 
deferred tax assets of $33 million and $63 million, respectively, 

related to state net operating loss carryforwards. The deferred tax 
assets relating to state net operating losses are presented net of 
specific valuation allowances, primarily resulting from leasing 

operations, of $20 million and $34 million at December 31, 2012 

and 2011, respectively. If these carryforwards are not utilized, they 

will expire in varying amounts through 2030. Additionally, at 

December 31, 2011, the Bancorp had federal general business tax 

credit carryforwards of $5 million that were fully utilized in 2012.  
The Bancorp has determined that
 a valuation allowance is not 
needed against the remaining deferred tax assets as of December 31, 
2012 or 2011. The Bancorp considered all of the positive and 

negative evidence available to determine whether it is more likely 

than not that the deferred tax assets
 will ultimately be realized and, 
based upon that evidence, the Bancorp believes it is more likely than 

not that the deferred tax assets recorded at December 31, 2012 and 

2011 will ultimately be realized. The Bancorp reached this 

conclusion as the Bancorp has taxable income in the carryback 
period and it is expected that the Bancorp™s remaining deferred tax 
assets will be realized through the reversal of its existing taxable 

temporary differences and its projected future taxable income.  
The IRS concluded its audit for 2008 and 2009 during the first 
quarter of 2012. As a result, all issues have been resolved with the 
IRS through 2009. The IRS is currently examining the Bancorp™s 
2010 and 2011 federal income tax returns. The statute of limitations 

for the Bancorp™s federal income tax returns remains open for tax 
years 2008-2012. On occasion, as various state and local taxing 
jurisdictions examine the returns of the Bancorp and its subsidiaries, 

the Bancorp may agree to extend the statute of limitations for a 

short period of time. Otherwise, with the exception of a few states 

with insignificant uncertain tax positions, the statutes of limitations 

for state income tax returns remain open only for tax years in 

accordance with each state™s statutes. 
During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, the 
Bancorp recognized an immaterial 
amount of interest expense in 
connection with income taxes. At December 31, 2012 and 2011, the 

Bancorp had accrued interest liabilities, net of the related tax 

benefits of $3 million. No material liabilities were recorded for 

penalties. Retained earnings at December 31, 2012 and 2011 included 
$157 million in allocations of earnings for bad debt deductions of 

former thrift subsidiaries for which no income tax has been 
provided. Under current tax law, 
if certain of the Bancorp™s 
subsidiaries use these bad debt reserves for purposes other than to 

absorb bad debt losses, they will be subject to federal income tax at 

the current corporate tax rate. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  134  Fifth Third Bancorp 
20. RETIREMENT AND BENEFIT PLANS The Bancorp™s qualified defined benefit plan™s benefits were frozen 
in 1998, except for grandfathered employees. The Bancorp™s other 

retirement plans consist of nonqualified, supplemental retirement 

plans, which are funded on an as needed basis. A majority of these 
plans were obtained in acquisiti
ons from prior years. The Bancorp 
recognizes the overfunded and un
derfunded status of its pension 
plans as an asset and liability, re
spectively. The Bancorp™s other 
defined benefit plans had an underfunded projected benefit 

obligation at December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The 

underfunded amounts recognized in other liabilities on the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets were $71 million and $72 million as of 
December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. 
 The following table summarizes the defined benefit reti
rement plans as of and for the years ended December 31: 
    Plans with an Underfunded Status
   ($ in millions) 
2012 
2011
Fair value of plan assets at January 1 
$ 181 
 197
Actual return on assets 
 21 
 -Contributions 
 4 
 4Settlement 
 (10)
 (10)
Benefits paid 
 (11)
 (10)
Fair value of plan 
assets at December 31 
$ 185 
 181
Projected benefit obligation at January 1 
$253 
 227
Service cost 
 - 
 -Interest cost 10  11
Settlement 
(10) (10)
Actuarial loss 
14  35
Benefits paid 
(11) (10)
Projected benefit oblig
ation at December 31 
$256 
 253
Unfunded projected benefit obligation at December 31 
$(71) (72)
 The estimated net actuarial loss for the defined benefit pension 
plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive 

income into net periodic benefit cost during 2013 is $13 million. 

The estimated net prior service cost for the defined benefit pension 
plan that will be amortized from
 accumulated other comprehensive 
income into net periodic benefit cost during 2013 is immaterial to 

the Consolidated Financial Statements.    
 The following table summarizes net periodic benefit cost and othe
r changes in plan assets and 
benefit obligations recognized 
in other comprehensive income for the years ended December 31: 
   ($ in millions)
 2012
2011 
2010
Components of net periodic benefit cost: 
    Service cost 
$-- - Interest cost 1011 
12 Expected return on assets (13)(15)
(14)
 Amortization of net actuarial loss 
1411 
12 Amortization of net prior se
rvice cost 
-1 1 Settlement 
66 -Net periodic benefit cost 
$1714 
11Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive income: 
 Net actuarial loss 
750 
2 Net prior service cost 
-- - Amortization of net actuarial loss 
(14)(11)
(12)
 Amortization of prior service cost 
-(1)
(1)
 Settlement 
(6)(6)
-Total recognized in other comprehensive income 
(13)32 
(11)
Total recognized in net periodic benefit cost and  
    other comprehensive income 
$446 
-    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  135  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Fair Value Measurements of Plan Assets
   The following table summarizes plan assets measured at
 fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31:
      Fair Value Measurements Using
(a) 2012 ($ in millions)
 Level 1
 Level 2 
Level 3 
Total Fair Value
Equity securities:
          Equity securities (Growth)
(b) $50 
 - -  $50  Equity securities (Value)
 52 
 - -  52  Equity securities (Blended)
 4  - -  4 Total equity securities
 106  - -  106           Mutual and exchange traded funds:
          Money market funds 4  - -  4  International funds
 29 
 - -  29  Commodity funds
 9  - -  9 Total mutual and exchange traded funds
 42 
 - -  42           Debt securities:
          U.S. Treasury obligations
 13  - -  13  Agency mortgage backed 
 -  21 -  21  Non-agency mortgage backed
 -  2 -  2  Corporate bonds
(c) -  1 -  1 Total debt securities
 13  24 -  37 Total plan assets
 $161  24 -  $185             Fair Value Measurements Using
(a) 2011 ($ in millions)
 Level 1
  Level 2 
 Level 3 
 Total Fair 
Value 
 Equity Securities:
          Equity securities (Growth)
(b) $53 
 - -  $53  Equity securities (Value)
 52 
 - -  52 Total equity securities
 105 
 - -  105
           Mutual and exchange traded funds:
          Money market funds 5  - -  5  International funds
 25 
 - -  25  Commodity funds
 9  - -  9 Total mutual and exchange traded funds
 39 
 - -  39           Debt securities:
          U.S. Treasury obligations
 10 
 - -  10  Agency mortgage backed 
 -  25 -  25  Non-agency mortgage backed
 -  1 -  1  Corporate bonds
(c) -  1 -  1 Total debt securities
 10 
 27 -  37 Total plan assets
 $154 
 27 -  $181
 (a) For further information on fair value hierarchy levels, see Note 1.  
(b) Includes holdings in Bancorp common stock. 
(c) Includes private label asset backed securities.  
 The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used 
for instruments measured at fair 
value, as well as the general 
classification of such instrumen
ts pursuant to the valuation 
hierarchy. 
 
Equity securities
 The plan measures common stock using quoted prices which are 
available in an active market and 
classifies these investments within 
Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. 

 
Mutual and exchange traded funds 

All of the plan™s mutual and exch
ange traded funds are publicly 
traded. The plan measures the valu
e of these investments using the 
fund™s quoted prices that are ava
ilable in an active market and 
classifies these investments wi
thin Level 1 of the valuation 
hierarchy.  
 
Debt securities 
For certain U.S. Treasury obligati
ons and federal agency securities, 
the plan measures the fair value based on quoted prices, which are 

available in an active market and 
classifies these investments within 
Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. Where quoted prices are not 
available, the plan measures the fair value of these investments 

based on matrix pricing models that include the bid price, which 

factors in the yield curve and other characteristics of the security 

including the interest rate, prepayment speeds and length of 

maturity. Therefore, these investments are classified within Level 2 

of the valuation hierarchy.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  136  Fifth Third Bancorp 
Plan Assumptions 
The plan assumptions are evaluated annually and are updated as 
necessary. The discount rate a
ssumption reflects the yield on a 
portfolio of high quality fixed-
income instruments that have a 
similar duration to the plan™s liabilit
ies. The expected long-term rate 
of return assumption reflects the 
average return expected on the 
assets invested to provide for th
e plan™s liabilities. In determining 
the expected long-term rate of
 return, the Bancorp evaluated 
actuarial and economic inputs, incl
uding long-term inflation rate 
assumptions and broad equity an
d bond indices long-term return 
projections, as well as actual long-term historical plan performance. 
         The following table summarizes the plan 
assumptions for the years ended December 31:
          Weighted-Average Assumptions 
2012 
  2011 
 2010  
For measuring benefit obligations at year end: 
        Discount rate 
 3.83 
%   4.27 
  5.39 
  Rate of compensation increase 
 4.00 
   5.00 
  5.00 
  Expected return on plan assets 
 8.00 
   8.25 
  8.25 
 For measuring net periodic benefit cost: 
        Discount rate 
 4.27 
   5.39 
  5.88 
  Rate of compensation increase 
 5.00 
   5.00 
  5.00 
  Expected return on plan assets 
 8.00 
   8.25 
  8.25 
     Lowering both the expected rate of
 return on the plan assets and 
the discount rate by 0.25% would have increased the 2012 pension 

expense by approximately $1 million. Lowering the rate of 

compensation increase by 0.25% wo
uld have an immaterial impact 
on the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements.  
Based on the actuarial assumptions, the Bancorp does not 
expect to contribute to the plan
 in 2013. Estimated pension benefit 
payments, which reflect expected future service, are $19 million in 

2013, $18 million in 2014, $17 million in 2015, $16 million in 2016 
and $15 million in 2017. The total es
timated payments for the years 
2018 through 2022 is $67 million.  Investment Policies and Strategies 
The Bancorp™s policy for the investment of plan assets is to employ 
investment strategies that achieve a range of weighted-average target 
asset allocations relating to equity s
ecurities (including the Bancorp™s 
common stock), fixed income securities (including federal agency 

obligations, corporate bonds and notes) and cash.  
 The following table provides the Bancorp™s 
targeted and actual weighted-average asse
t allocations by asset category for the yea
rs ended Decembe
r31:  Weighted-average asset allocationTargeted range
 2012 
 2011 
 Equity securities 
  76 
%74 Bancorp common stock 
  1  2 Total equity securities
(a) 70-80
% 77 
 76 Total fixed income securities 
20-25
 20 
 21 Cash(b) 0-5
 3  3 Total 
  100 %100
 (a) Includes mutual and exchange traded funds 
(b) Cash held in a Fifth Third Money Market Fund.  
 The risk tolerance for the plan is determined by management to be 
ﬁmoderate to aggressiveﬂ, recognizing that higher returns involve 

some volatility and that periodic dec
lines in the portfolio™s value are 
tolerated in an effort to achieve real capital growth. There were no 

significant concentrations of risk associated with the investments of 

the Bancorp™s benefit and retirement plan at December 31, 2012 
and 2011. Permitted asset classes of the plan include cash and cash 
equivalents, fixed income (domes
tic and non-U.S. bonds), equities 
(U.S., non-U.S., emerging markets and REITS), equipment leasing, 

precious metals, commodity transactions and mortgages. The plan 

utilizes derivative instruments in
cluding puts, calls, straddles or 
other option strategies, as approved by management.     
Prohibited asset classes of the plan include venture capital, 
short sales, limited partnerships and leveraged transactions. Per 
ERISA, the Bancorp™s common stock cannot exceed ten percent of 

the fair value of plan assets.   
Fifth Third Bank, as Trustee, is expected to manage the plan 
assets in a manner consistent with the plan agreement and other 

regulatory, federal and state laws. The Fifth Third Bank Pension, 

Profit Sharing and Medical Plan Committee (the ﬁCommitteeﬂ) is 

the plan administrator. The Trustee is required to provide to the 

Committee monthly and quarterly re
ports covering a list of plan 
assets, portfolio performance, tran
sactions and asset allocation. The 
Trustee is also required to keep
 the Committee apprised of any 
material changes in the Trustee™s outlook and recommended 

investment policy.  Other Information on Retirement and Benefit Plans 
The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit plans was 

$256 million and $253 million at December 31, 2012 and 2011, 
respectively. The Bancorp does not have any defined benefit plans 
with assets exceeding benefit obligations at December 31, 2012 and 

2011, respectively.   
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  137  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Amounts relating to the Bancorp™s defined benefit plans with be
nefit obligations exceeding assets were as follows at December 31
:   
      ($ in millions) 
 2012 
 2011 
 Projected benefit obligation 
$256 
 253
 Accumulated benefit obligation 
 256 
 253
 Fair value of plan assets 
 185  181
    As of December 31, 2012 and 2011, 
$123 million and $159 million, 
respectively, of plan assets were managed through a collective fund 

and separately managed accounts by Fifth Third Bank, a subsidiary 
of the Bancorp. Plan assets included $3 million and $5 million of 
Bancorp common stock as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, 

respectively. Plan assets are not 
expected to be returned to the 
Bancorp during 2013. 
The Bancorp™s profit sharing plan expense was $46 million for 
2012, $35 million for 2011, and $31 million for 2010. Expenses 

recognized for matching contribu
tions to the Bancorp™s defined 
contribution savings plans were $42 million, $40 million, and $36 
million for the years ended Decemb
er 31, 2012, 2011, and 2010, 
respectively.   
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  138  Fifth Third Bancorp 
21. ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
The activity of the components of other comprehensive income an
d accumulated other comprehensive income for the years ended Dec
ember 31:
                Total Other 
 Total Accumulated Other 
   Comprehensive Income 
 Comprehensive Income 
   Pretax Tax Net 
Beginning 
Net 
Ending ($ in millions) 
Activity 
Effect Activity 
Balance 
Activity 
Balance 
2012 
             Unrealized holding losses on available-for-sale securities arising  
             during period 
$(97) 34 
 (63)       Reclassification adjustment for ne
t gains included in net income
 (15) 5  (10)       Net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities
 (112) 39 
 (73) 485 
 (73) 412 
               Unrealized holding gains on cash flow hedge derivatives arising
              during period 
37 
 (13) 24 
       Reclassification adjustment for net gains on cash flow
              hedge derivatives included in net income 
(83) 29 
 (54)       Net unrealized gains on cash flow hedge derivatives
 (46) 16  (30) 80 
 (30) 50 
               Defined benefit plans:
              Net actuarial loss 
13  (5) 8        Defined benefit plans, net
 13  (5) 8  (95) 8  (87) Total $(145) 50 
 (95) 470 
 (95) 375 
 2011 
             Unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale securities arising  
             during period 
$309 
 (108)
 201 
       Reclassification adjustment for ne
t gains included in net income 
(56)
 19 
 (37)
       Net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities 
253 
 (89)
 164 
 321 
 164
 485 
               Unrealized holding gains on cash flow hedge derivatives arising 
             during period 
89 
 (31)
58 
     Reclassification adjustment for net gains on cash flow 
             hedge derivatives included in net income 
(69)
 24 
 (45)
       Net unrealized gains on cash
 flow hedge derivatives 
20 
 (7)
 13 
 67 
 13 80 
               Defined benefit plans: 
             Net actuarial gain 
(32)
 11 
 (21)
    Defined benefit plans, net 
(32)
 11 
 (21)
 (74)
 (21)
 (95)
 Total 
$241 
 (85)
 156 
 314 
 156
 470 
 2010 
             Unrealized holding gains on available-for-sale securities arising  
             during period 
$216 
 (73)
 143 
       Reclassification adjustment for ne
t gains included in net income 
(57)
 19 
 (38)
       Net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities 
159 
 (54)
 105 
 216 
 105
 321 
               Unrealized holding gains on cash flow hedge derivatives arising 
             during period 
2  (1)
1      Reclassification adjustment for net gains on cash flow 
             hedge derivatives included in net income 
(60)
 21 
 (39)
       Net unrealized gains on cash
 flow hedge derivatives 
(58)
 20 
 (38)
 105 
 (38)
 67 
               Defined benefit plans: 
             Net prior service cost 
 1 
 (1)
 - 
 Net actuarial loss 
10 
 (4)
 6     Defined benefit plans, net 
11 
 (5)
 6  (80)
 6 (74)
 Total 
$112 
 (39)
 73 
 241 
 73 314 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  139  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 22. COMMON, PREFERRED AND TREASURY STOCK
   The following is a summary of the share activity within comm
on, preferred and treasury stock for the years ended December 31: 
          Common Stock  
Preferred Stock  
 Treasury Stock  
($ in millions, except share data)  
Value 
Shares Value 
Shares Value 
Shares Shares at December 31, 2009 
$ 1,779 
 801,504,188 
$ 3,609 
 152,771 
$  201 
 6,436,024 
Accretion from dividends on preferred shares, Series F 
 - 
 - 
 45 
 - 
  - 
 - 
Stock-based awards issued or exercise
d, including treasu
ry shares issued 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
  (6)
 16,391 
Restricted stock grants  
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
  (62)
 (1,334,967)
Other   - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
  (3)
 114,218 
Shares at December 31, 2010 
$ 1,779 
 801,504,188 
$ 3,654 
 152,771 
$  130 
 5,231,666 
Issuance of common shares 
 272 
 122,388,393 
 - 
 - 
  - 
 - 
Exchange of preferred shares, Series G 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (1)
  - 
 - 
Redemption of preferred shares, Series F  
 - 
 - 
 (3,408)
 (136,320)
  - 
 - 
Accretion from dividends on preferred shares, Series F  
 - 
 - 
  153 
 - 
  - 
 - 
Stock-based awards issued or exercise
d, including treasu
ry shares issued 
 - 
 - 
  - 
 - 
  (7)
 (336,735)
Restricted stock grants  
 - 
 - 
  - 
 - 
  (58)
 (756,381)
Other   - 
 - 
 (1)
   (1)
 (50,405)
Shares at December 31, 2011 
$ 2,051 
 923,892,581 
$ 398 
 16,450 
$  64 
 4,088,145 
Shares acquired for treasury  
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
  627 
 42,424,014 
Stock-based awards issued or exercise
d, including treasu
ry shares issued  - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
  (7)
 (1,776,508)
Restricted stock grants 
  - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
  (47)
 (2,877,657)
Other   - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
  (3)
 (117,470)
Shares at December 31, 2012 
$ 2,051 
 923,892,581 
$ 398 
 16,450 
$  634 
 41,740,524 
   Common Stock  
On January 25, 2011, the Bancorp raised $1.7 billion in new 
common equity through the issuance of common stock in an 

underwritten offering with an initial price of $14.00 per share. 

121,428,572 shares were issued, wh
ich included 12,142,857 shares 
issued to the underwriters, who ex
ercised their option to purchase 
additional shares at the offering price of $14.00 per share on January 

24, 2011. In connection with this exercise, the Bancorp entered into 

a forward sale agreement which resu
lted in a final net payment of 
959,821 shares on February 4, 2011. 
  Preferred StockŠSeries G  
In 2008, the Bancorp issued 
8.5% non-cumulative Series G 
convertible preferred stock. The depository shares represent shares 

of its convertible preferred stock 
and have a liquidation preference 
of $25,000 per share. The preferred 
stock is convertible at any time, 
at the option of the shareholder, into 2,159.8272 shares of common 
stock, representing a conversion 
price of approximately $11.575 per 
share of common stock.  
As of December 31, 2012, Series G preferred stock had 
4,112,750 depositary shares represen
ting 16,450 shares outstanding 
and 1,700 shares reserved for issuance. 
 Preferred StockŠSeries F 
On December 31, 2008, the U.S. Treasu
ry purchased $3.4 billion, or 
136,320 shares, of the Bancorp™s Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual 
Preferred Stock, Series F, with a liquidation preference of $25,000 

per share and related 10-year warrant
 in the amount of 15% of the 
preferred stock investment. The warrant gave the U.S Treasury the 

right to purchase 43,617,747 shares of the Bancorp™s common stock 

at $11.72 per share. The Series F senior preferred stock was issued 

complying with the terms established by the CPP. Per the program 

terms, the U.S. Treasury™s investment consisted of senior preferred 
stock with a five percent dividend for each of the first five years of 
investment and nine percent thereafter, unless the shares were 

redeemed. The shares were callable by the Bancorp at par after three 

years and could be repurchased at any time under certain 

circumstances. The terms also included restrictions on the 

repurchase of common stock and an increase in common stock 
dividends, which required the U.S. 
Treasury™s consent, for a period 
of three years from the date of investment unless the preferred 
shares were redeemed in whole or the U.S. Treasury had transferred 

all of the preferred shares to a third party.   
The proceeds from issuance of the Series F preferred stock 
were allocated to the preferred stock and to the warrant based on 

their relative fair values, which resulted in an initial book value of 

$3.2 billion for the preferred stock and $239 million for the warrant. 

The resulting discount to the preferred stock was being accreted 
over five years through retained earnings as a preferred stock 
dividend, resulting in an effectiv
e yield of 6.7% for the Series F 
preferred stock for the first five years.  
On February 2, 2011, the Bancorp used proceeds from the 
issuance of common shares along with proceeds from a senior debt 

offering and other available resources to repurchase all 136,320 

Series F preferred shares. In connection with the redemption of the 

Series F Preferred Stock, the Banc
orp accelerated the accretion of 
the remaining issuance discount on the Series F Preferred Stock and 
recorded a reduction in retained earnings and a corresponding 

increase in preferred stock of $153 million in the Bancorp™s 

Consolidated Balance Sheet.  On March 16, 2011, the Bancorp 

repurchased the warrant issued to 
the U.S. Treasury in connection 
with the CPP preferred stock investment at an agreed upon price of 

$280 million, which was recorded as a reduction to capital surplus in 

the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements.  Treasury Stock  On March 13, 2012, the Bancorp announced the results of its capital plan submitted to the FRB as part of the 2012 CCAR. The FRB 

indicated to the Bancorp that it di
d not object to the repurchase of 
common shares in an amount equal 
to any after-tax gains realized by 
the Bancorp from the sale of Vantiv, Inc. common shares by either 

the Bancorp or Vantiv, Inc. Following the Vantiv Inc. IPO, the 
Bancorp entered into an accelerated share repurchase transaction 
with a counterparty pursuant 
to which the Bancorp purchased 
4,838,710 shares, or approximately $
75 million, of its outstanding 
common stock on April 26, 2012. As part of this transaction and all 

subsequent accelerated share repurchase transactions in 2012, the 

Bancorp entered into forward contracts in which the final number 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  140  Fifth Third Bancorp 
of shares to be delivered at settlement of the accelerated share 
repurchase transaction was based on a discount to the average daily 

volume-weighted average price of the Bancorp™s common stock 

during the term of the Repurchase Agreements. Each of the 
accelerated share repurchases was treated as two separate 
transactions (i) the acquisition of 
treasury shares on the acquisition 
date and (ii) a forward contract indexed to the Bancorp™s stock. At 

settlement of the April 2012 forward contract on June 1, 2012, the 

Bancorp received an additional 631,
986 shares which were recorded 
as an adjustment to the basis in the treasury shares purchased on the 

acquisition date. 
On August 21, 2012, the Bancorp announced that the FRB did 
not object to its capital plan resubmitted under the CCAR process, 
which included the repurchases of common shares of up to $600 

million through the first quarter of 2013, in addition to any 

incremental repurchase of common shares related to any after-tax 

gains realized by the Bancorp from the sale of Vantiv, Inc. common 

shares by either the Bancorp or Va
ntiv, Inc. As a result, on August 
21, 2012, Fifth Third™s Board of Di
rectors authorized the Bancorp 
to repurchase up to 100 million shares of its outstanding common 
stock in the open market or in priv
ately negotiated transactions, and 
to utilize any derivative or similar instrument to affect share 

repurchase transactions. This 
share repurchase authorization 
replaces the Board™s previous au
thorization pursuant to which 
approximately 14 million shares remained available for repurchase 

by the Bancorp. 
On August 23, 2012, the Bancorp entered into an accelerated 
share repurchase transaction with a counterparty pursuant to which 
the Bancorp purchased 21,531,100 shares, or approximately $350 
million, of its outstanding common stock on August 28, 2012. At 

settlement of the forward contract on October 24, 2012, the 

Bancorp received an additional 1,444,047 shares which were 
recorded as an adjustment to the basis in the treasury shares 
purchased on the acquisition date. 
On November 6, 2012, the 
Bancorp entered into an 
accelerated share repurchase tr
ansaction with a counterparty 
pursuant to which the Bancorp purchased 7,710,761 shares, or 

approximately $125 million, of its outstanding common stock on 

November 9, 2012. At settlement of the forward contract on 

February 12, 2013, the Bancorp received an additional 657,917 
shares which were recorded as an adjustment to the basis in the 
treasury shares purchased on the acquisition date. 
Following the sale of a portion of the Bancorp™s shares of Class 
A Vantiv, Inc. common stock, the Bancorp entered into an 

accelerated share repurchase transaction on December 14, 2012 

with a counterparty pursuant 
to which the Bancorp purchased 
6,267,410 shares, or approximately 
$100 million, of its outstanding 
common stock on December 19, 2012. The Bancorp expects the 
settlement of the transaction to occu
r on or before March 14, 2013.  
Additionally, on January 28, 2013, the Bancorp entered into an 
accelerated share repurchase transa
ction. See Note 30 for additional 
information.  During 2011 and 2010, the Bancorp repurchased an immaterial 
amount of common stock.  23. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION 
The Bancorp has historically emphasized employee stock 
ownership. The following table pr
ovides detail of the number of 
shares to be issued upon exercise 
of outstanding stock-based awards 
and remaining shares available for 
future issuance under all of the 
Bancorp™s equity compensation plans as of December 31, 2012: 
 Plan Category (shares in thousands) 
 Number of Shares to be 
Issued Upon Exercise
  Weighted-Average 
Exercise Price 
Shares Available for 
Future Issuance 
Equity compensation plans approved by shareholders 
     23,215 
(a)
  SARs 
(b)
(b)
(a) 
 Restricted stock  6,379 
 N/A(a) 
 Stock options
(c)  3,108 
 $51.75
 (a) 
 Phantom stock units 
(d)
N/AN/A  Performance units 
(e)N/A(a) 
 Employee stock purchase plan 
     8,720 
(f) Total shares 
  9,487 
    31,935 
 (a) Under the 2011 Incentive Compensation Plan, 39 million shares plus
 up to 4.5 million shares from the 2008 Incentive Compensatio
n Plan (the Predecessor Plan) 
of stock were authorized for 
issuance as incentive and nonqualified stock options, SARs, rest
ricted stock and rest
ricted stock units, performance units and 
performance restricted stock awards. 
(b) The number of shares to be issued upon exercise will be determin
ed at vesting based on the difference between the grant price a
nd the market price at the date of exercise. 
(c) Excludes 0.8 million outstanding options awarded under plans assu
med by the Bancorp in connection with certain mergers and acqu
isitions. The Bancorp has not made any awards under these plans 
and will make no additional awards under these plans. The weight
ed-average exercise price of the outstanding options is $17.74 
per share.  
 (d) Phantom stock units are settled in cash. 
(e) The number of shares to be issued is dependent upon the Bancor
p achieving certain predefined performance targets and ranges fro
m zero shares to approximately 0.6 million shares. 
(f) Represents remaining shares of Fifth Third common stock under the 
Bancorp™s 1993 Stock Purchase Pl
an, as amended and restated, 
including an additional 1.5 million shares approved by 
shareholders on March 28, 2007 and an additional 12 mi
llion shares approved by shareholders on April 21, 2009. 
 
 Stock-based awards are eligible for issuance under the Bancorp™s 
Incentive Compensation Plan to key employees and directors of the 

Bancorp and its subsidiaries. The 
Incentive Compensation Plan was 
approved by shareholders on Apr
il 19, 2011, and authorized the 
issuance of up to 39 million shares
 plus up to 4.5 million shares 
under the Predecessor Plan for Full Value Awards as equity 

compensation and provides for incentive and nonqualified stock 

options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and restricted 
stock units, and performance share and restricted stock awards. Full 
Value Awards are defined as awards with no cash outlay for the 
employee to obtain the full value. Based on total stock-based awards 
outstanding (including stock opt
ions, stock appreciation rights, 
restricted stock and performance units) and shares remaining for 

future grants under the 2011 Incentive Compensation Plan, the 

potential dilution to which the Bancorp™s shareholders of common 

stock are exposed due to the potential that stock-based 

compensation will be awarded to 
executives, directors or key 
employees of the Bancorp is nine percent. SARs, restricted stock, 
stock options and performance units outstanding represent six 
percent of the Bancorp™s issued shares at December 31, 2012. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  141  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 All of the Bancorp™s stock-based awards are to be settled with 
stock with the exception of phantom stock units that are to be 

settled in cash. The Bancorp has hi
storically used treasury stock to 
settle stock-based awards, when available. SARs, issued at fair value 
based on the closing price of the Bancorp™s common stock on the 
date of grant, have up to ten-year terms and vest and become 

exercisable either ratably or fu
lly over a four year period of 
continued employment. The Bancorp does not grant discounted 

SARs or stock options, re-price previously granted SARs or stock 

options, or grant reload stock options. Restricted stock grants vest 

after four years, or ratably over three or four years or ratably after 

three years of continued employment and include dividend and 
voting rights. Stock options were previously issued at fair value 
based on the closing price of the Bancorp™s common stock on the 

date of grant, had up to ten-year terms and vested and became fully 
exercisable ratably over a three or
 four year period of continued 
employment. Performance unit awards
 have three-year cliff vesting 
terms with market conditions as defined by the plan. 
Stock-based compensation expense was $69 million, $59 
million and $64 million for the years ended December 31, 2012, 
2011 and 2010, respectively, and is in
cluded in salaries, wages, and 
incentives in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The total 

related income tax benefit recogniz
ed was $24 million, $21 million 
and $18 million for the years 
ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 
2010, respectively.  
 Stock Appreciation Rights 
The Bancorp uses assumptions, which are evaluated and revised as 

necessary, in estimating the grant-date fair value of each SAR grant.
  The weighted-average assumptions were as follows for the years ended:
      2012 
2011 
2010 
Expected life (in years)  
6 6 6 Expected volatility  
37%35%
38%
Expected dividend yield  
2.8%2.0%
2.0%
Risk-free interest rate 
1.2%2.6%
3.1%
    The expected life is derived from historical exercise patterns and 
represents the amount of time that SARs granted are expected to be 

outstanding. The expected volatility is based on a combination of 
historical and implied volatilities 
of the Bancorp™s common stock. 
The expected dividend yield is ba
sed on annual dividends divided by 
the Bancorp™s stock price. Annual dividends are based on projected 

dividends, estimated using a hist
orical long-term dividend payout 
ratio, over the estimated life of the awards. The risk-free interest 

rate for periods within the contractual life of the SARs is based on 

the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.   
The grant-date fair value of SARs is measured using the Black-
Scholes option-pricing model.
 The weighted-average grant-date fair 
value of SARs granted was $4.23, $4.29 and $5.10 per share for the 
years ended 2012, 2011 and 2010, resp
ectively. The total grant-date 
fair value of SARs that vested during 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $22 

million, $20 million, and $25 million, respectively.   
At December 31, 2012, there was $64 million of stock-based 
compensation expense related to nonvested SARs not yet 

recognized. The expense is expected to be recognized over a 

remaining weighted-average period of approximately 2.8 years. 
  2012 
 2011 
 2010  
  Weighted- 
  Weighted-
  Weighted- 
  Average 
  Average 
 Average 
SARs (shares in thousands) 
Shares Grant Price 
Shares Grant Price 
Shares Grant Price 
Outstanding at January 1 
 36,502 
$22.20
  31,152 
$24.67 
  28,571 
$26.82
 Granted 
 12,179 
14.36 8,633 
13.36 
 5,310 
14.74
Exercised 
 (1,271)
6.29
 (521)
3.96 
 (319)
3.96
Forfeited or expired 
 (3,290)
23.33
 (2,762)
25.76 
 (2,410)
30.87
Outstanding at December 31 
 44,120 
$20.41
 36,502 
$22.20 
 31,152 
$24.67
Exercisable at December 31 
 23,248 
$26.76
 20,070 
$30.29 
 16,347 
$34.94
 The following table summarizes outstanding and ex
ercisable SARs by grant price at December 31, 2012:
               Outstanding SARs  
 Exercisable SARs 
    Weighted- 
     Weighted- 
    Average 
     Average 
 Number of 
  Remaining 
 Number of 
  Remaining 
 SARs at  
Weighted- 
Contractual 
 SARs at  
Weighted- 
Contractual 
 Year End 
Average 
Life 
 Year End 
Average 
Life 
Grant price per share 
(000s) 
Grant Price 
(in years) 
 (000s) 
Grant Price 
(in years) 
Under $10.00 
 5,100 
$ 4.06
  6.3 
   3,481 
$3.96 
  6.3
 $10.01-$20.00 
 27,812 
 14.98
  8.0 
   8,559 
16.94 
  6.4
 $20.01-$30.00 
 34 
 22.88
  5.2 
   34 
22.88 
  5.2
 $30.01-$40.00 
 7,231 
 38.69
 3.6 
 7,231 
38.69 
 3.6
Over $40.00
  3,943 
 46.37
 2.2 
 3,943 
46.37 
 2.2
All SARs 
  44,120 
$ 20.41
 6.6 
 23,248 
$26.76 
 4.8
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  142  Fifth Third Bancorp 
Restricted Stock Awards  
The total grant-date fair value of RSAs that vested during 2012, 
2011 and 2010 was $32 million, $37 million and $30 million, 

respectively. At December 31, 2012, there was $57 million of stock-
based compensation expense related to nonvested restricted stock 
not yet recognized. The expense is ex
pected to be recognized over a 
remaining weighted-average period of approximately 2.7 years. 
  2012 
 2011 
 2010  
  Weighted- 
 Weighted-
  Weighted- 
  Average 
 Average 
 Average 
  Grant -Date 
 Grant -Date 
 Grant -Date 
RSAs (shares in thousands) 
Shares Fair Value 
Shares Fair Value 
Shares Fair Value 
Nonvested at January 1 
 4,764 
$15.95  5,158 
$18.89 
  4,645 
$23.85
 Granted 
 3,863 
14.33 1,702 
13.19 
 1,677 
14.69
Exercised 
 (1,826)
18.37 (1,646)
22.52 
 (817)
36.96
Forfeited  (422)
15.35 (450)
15.34 
 (347)
22.39
Nonvested at December 31 
 6,379 
$14.32 4,764 
$15.95 
 5,158 
$18.89
 The following table summarizes unvested RSAs 
by grant-date fair value at December 31, 2012:      Nonvested RSAs 
  Weighted-Average 
 Number of 
Remaining 
 RSAs at Year End 
Contractual Life 
Grant-Date Fair Value Per Share 
(000s) 
(in years) 
Under $10.00 
 254 
 0.9
 $10.01-$20.00 
 6,123 
 1.4
 $20.01-$30.00 
 2 
 0.3
 All RSAs 
 6,379 
  1.4
  Stock options 
The grant-date fair value of stock options is measured using the 
Black-Scholes option-pricing model.
 There were no stock options 
granted during 2012, 2011 and 2010.  The total intrinsic value of options exercised during 2012 was 
$1 million and was immaterial to the Bancorp™s Consolidated 

Financial Statements in both 2011 and 2010. Cash received from 

options exercised during 2012 and 2011 was $2 million and $1 

million, respectively. Cash receive
d from options exercised during 
2010 was immaterial to the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial 
Statements. Tax benefits realized from exercised options were 

immaterial to the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements 

during 2012, 2011 and 2010. All stock options were vested as of 
December 31, 2008, therefore, no stock options vested during 2012, 
2011, or 2010. As of December 31, 2012, the aggregate intrinsic 

value of both outstanding options 
and exercisable options was $1 
million.   2012 
 2011 
 2010  
  Weighted- 
  Weighted-
  Weighted- 
  Average 
  Average 
 Average 
Stock Options (shares in thousands) 
Shares Exercise PriceShares Exercise Price 
Shares Grant Price 
Outstanding at January 1 
 7,584 
$53.88
  11,859 
$52.01 
  15,504 
$49.29
 Exercised 
 (205)
10.32 (96)
9.25 
 (58)
 8.76
Forfeited or expired 
 (3,502)
66.25
 (4,179)
49.61 
 (3,587)
 40.54
Outstanding at December 31 
 3,877 
$45.00
 7,584 
$53.88 
 11,859 
$52.01
Exercisable at December 31 
 3,877 
$45.00
 7,584 
$53.88 
 11,859 
$52.01
 The following table summarizes outstand
ing and exercisable stock options by
 exercise price at December 31, 2012:
         Outstanding and Exercisable Stock Options 
 Number of 
Options at Year 
End (000s) 
   Weighted-
Average 
Remaining 
Contractual Life 
(in years) 
 Weighted- 
 Average 
Exercise price per share 
Exercise PriceUnder $10.00 
 5 
$ 9.65 
  1.5
 $10.01-$20.00 
 590 
 12.86 
  2.1
 $20.01-$30.00 
 33 
 23.38 
  0.2
 $30.01-$40.00 
 136 
 36.31 
 1.3
Over $40.00
  3,113 
 51.77 
 0.3
All stock options
  3,877 
$ 45.00 
 0.6
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  143  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 Other stock-based compensation  
During 2009, the Bancorp™s Board of Directors approved the use of 
phantom stock units as part of 
its compensation for executives in 
connection with changes made in reaction to the TARP 
compensation rules. On February
 22, 2011, the Bancorp redeemed 
its Series F preferred stock held by the U.S. Treasury under the 

CPP. As a result of this redemption, the last payment of phantom 

stock occurred in April of 2011. The phantom stock units were 

issued under the Bancorp™s 2008 Incentive Compensation Plan. The 

number of phantom stock units was determined each pay period by 

dividing the amount of salary to be paid in phantom stock units for 

that pay period, by the reported closing price of the Bancorp™s 
common stock on the pay date for such pay period. The phantom 
stock units vested immediately on issuance. Phantom stock was 

expensed based on the number of outstanding units multiplied by 

the closing price of the Bancorp™s stock at period end. The phantom 

stock units did not include any rights to receive dividends or 

dividend equivalents. Phantom stock units issued on or before June 

12, 2010 were settled in cash upon the earlier to occur of June 15, 

2011 or the executive™s death. Units issued thereafter will be settled 
in cash with 50% settled on June 15, 2012 and 50% to be settled on 
June 15, 2013. The amount paid on settlement of the phantom 

stock units is equal to the total amount of phantom stock units 

settled at the reported closing price of the Bancorp™s common stock 

on the settlement date. Under the phantom stock program, no 

phantom stock units were granted during the year ended December 

31, 2012, and phantom stock un
its of 132,649 and 488,703 were 
granted with a weighted average 
grant price of $14.40 and $12.80 
during the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. 
During 2012 and 2011, 199,813 and 
521,091, phantom stock units 
were settled, respectively. No phantom stock units were settled 

during 2010. 
Performance units are payable contingent upon the Bancorp 
achieving certain predefined perfor
mance targets over the three-year 
measurement period. Awards granted during 2012, 2011 and 2010 

will be entirely settled in stock. The performance targets are based 
on the Bancorp™s performance relative to a defined peer group. 
During 2012, 2011 and 2010,
 344,741, 328,061, and 61,320 
performance units, respectively, were granted by the Bancorp. These 

awards were granted at a weighted-average grant-date fair value of 

$14.36, $13.36 and $13.76 per un
it during 2012, 2011 and 2010, 
respectively.  The Bancorp sponsors a stock purchase plan that allows 
qualifying employees to purchase shares of the Bancorp™s common 
stock with a 15% match. Duri
ng the years ended December 31, 
2012, 2011 and 2010, there we
re 827,709, 886,447 and 749,127 
shares, respectively, purchased by participants and the Bancorp 

recognized stock-based compensati
on expense of $1 million in each 
of the respective years.
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  144  Fifth Third Bancorp 
24. OTHER NONINTEREST INCOME AND OTHER NONINTEREST EXPENSE
 The following table presents the major components of other noninterest income and other noninterest expense for the years ended
 December 31:
         ($ in millions) 
 2012 
 2011 
 2010  
Other noninterest income:  
     Gain on Vantiv, Inc. IPO and sale of Vantiv, Inc. shares 
$  272 
 - 
 - 
  Net gain from warrant and put options associated with sale of the processing business
   67 
 39 
 5 
  Equity method income from interest in Vantiv Holding, LLC 
  61 
 57 
 26 
  Operating lease income
   60 
 58 
 62 
  Cardholder fees 
  46 
 41 
 36 
  BOLI income 
  35 
 41 
 194 
  Banking center income 
  32 
 27 
 22 
  Insurance income   28 
 28 
 38 
  Consumer loan and lease fees 
  27 
 31 
 32 
  Gain on loan sales 
  20 
 37 
 51 
  TSA revenue 
  1 
 21 
 49 
  Loss on swap associated with the sa
le of Visa, Inc. class B shares 
  (45)
 (83)
 (19)
  Loss on sale of OREO
   (57)
 (71)
 (78)
  Other, net 
  27 
 24 
 (12)
 Total 
$  574 
250 
406 
 Other noninterest expense:  
   Losses and adjustments 
$  187 
 129 
 187 
  Loan and lease 
  183 
 195 
 211 
  Loss (gain) on debt extinguishment 
  169 
 (8)
 17 
  Marketing
   128 
 115 
 98 
  FDIC insurance and other taxes
   114 
 201 
 242 
  Impairment of affordable housing investments 
  90 
 85 
 100 
  Professional services fees 
  56 
 58 
 77 
  Travel 
  52 
 52 
 51 
  Postal and courier 
  48 
 49 
 48 
  Operating lease 
  43 
 41 
 41 
  Data processing 
  40 
 29 
 24 
  Recruitment and education 
  28 
 31 
 31 
  OREO expense 
  21 
 34 
 33 
  Insurance   18 
 25 
 42 
  Supplies 
  17 
 18 
 24 
  Intangible asset amortization 
  13 
 22 
 43 
  Provision (benefit) for unfunded co
mmitments and letters of credit 
  (2)
 (46)
 (24)
  Other, net 
  169 
 194 
 149 
 Total 
$  1,374 
 1,224 
 1,394 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  145  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 25.  EARNINGS PER SHARE 
The calculation of earnings per share and the reconciliation of 
earnings per share and earnings
 per diluted share for the years ended December 31:
               2012 
 2011 
  2010 
    AveragePer Share AveragePer Share 
  AveragePer Share(in millions, except per share data) 
 Income 
Shares Amount
Income 
Shares Amount 
 Income 
Shares Amount
Earnings per share:
             Net income attributable to Bancorp 
$  1,576 
    1,297 
    753 
  Dividends on preferred stock 
  35 
    203 
    250 
  Net income available to common shareholders 
  1,541 
    1,094 
    503 
  Less: Income allocated to participating securities 
  10 
    6 
    3 
  Net income allocated to
 common shareholders 
$  1,531 
 904 
 1.69 
  1,088 
 906 
 1.20 
  500 
 791 
 0.63 
Earnings per diluted share:
             Net income available to common shareholders 
$  1,541 
    1,094 
    503 
  Effect of dilutive securities: 
                Stock-based awards 
  - 
 6 
 - 
  - 
 6 
 - 
  - 
 5 
 - 
    Series G convertible preferred stock 
  35 
 36 
 (0.03)
  35 
 36 
 (0.02)
  - 
 - 
 - 
    Warrants related to Series F preferred stock 
  - 
 - 
 - 
  - 
 2 
 - 
  - 
 3 
 - 
Net income available to common shareholders 
  1,576 
    1,129 
    503 
      plus assumed conversions 
            Less: Income allocated to participating securities 
  10 
    6 
    3 
  Net income allocated to
 common shareholders 
                plus assumed conversions 
$  1,566 
946 
1.66   1,123 
950 
1.18 
  500 
799 
0.63 
Shares are excluded from the computation of net income per diluted 
share when their inclusion has an an
ti-dilutive effect on earnings per 
share. The diluted earnings per 
share computation for 2012, 2011, 
and 2010 excludes 36 million, 29 million, and 23 million, 
respectively, of stock appreciation rights, 5 million, 8 million, and 12 

million, respectively, of stock options and 1 million,  1 million and 1 

million shares, respectively, of unvested restricted stock that had not 

yet been exercised. In 2010,  36 million shares related to the 

Bancorp™s Series G preferred stock that were not part of the 

conversion of preferred shares in the second quarter of 2009 were 

excluded from the computation of net income per diluted share 
because their inclusion would have b
een anti-dilutive to earnings per 
share.  
The diluted earnings per share computation for the year ended 
December 31, 2012 excludes the impact of the forward contracts 

related to the November 6, 2012 and December 14, 2012 

accelerated share repurchase tran
sactions because, based upon the 
average daily volume-weighted average price of the Bancorp™s 

common stock during the fourth quarter of 2012, the counterparty 
to the transactions would have been required to deliver 
approximately 1 million shares as of December 31, 2012, and thus 

the impact of the two accelerated
 share repurchase transactions 
would have been anti-dilutiv
e to earnings per share. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  146  Fifth Third Bancorp 
26. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS The Bancorp measures certain fina
ncial assets and liabilities at fair 
value in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which defines fair value as the 
price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a 
liability in an orderly transaction be
tween market participants at the 
measurement date. U.S. GAAP als
o establishes a fair value 
hierarchy, which prioritizes the i
nputs to valuation techniques used 
to measure fair value into three broad levels. The fair value 
hierarchy gives the highest priori
ty to quoted prices in active 
markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest 
priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3). A financial instrument™s 
categorization within the fair v
alue hierarchy is based upon the 
lowest level of input that is signif
icant to the instrument™s fair value 
measurement. For more information regarding the fair value 

hierarchy and how the Bancorp measures fair value, see Note 1.   
 Assets and Liabilities Measured at
 Fair Value on a Recurring Basi
s The following tables summarize assets and liabilities measured at
 fair value on a recurring basis, including residential mortga
ge loans held for sale
for which the Bancorp has elected the fair value option as of:
    Fair Value Measurements Using
  December 31, 2012 ($ in millions)
  Level 1
(c)
 Level 2
(c) 
Level 3
 Total Fair Value 
Assets: 
     Available-for-sale securities:
       U.S. Treasury and Government agencies
 $ 41 
 - 
 - 
 41     U.S. Government sponsored agencies
   - 
 1,911 
 - 
 1,911
     Obligations of states and political subdivisions
   - 
 212 
 - 
 212
     Agency mortgage-backed securities
   - 
 8,730 
 - 
 8,730
     Other bonds, notes and debentures
   - 
 3,277 
 - 
 3,277
     Other securities
(a)   79 
 113 
 - 
 192
       Available-for-sale securities
(a)   120 
 14,243 
 - 
 14,363
     Trading securities:
       U.S. Treasury and Government agencies
   1 
 - 
 - 
 1     U.S. Government sponsored agencies
   - 
 6 
 - 
 6     Obligations of states and political subdivisions
   - 
 16 
 1 
 17
     Agency mortgage-backed securities
   - 
 7 
 - 
 7     Other bonds, notes and debentures
   - 
 15 
 - 
 15
     Other securities
   161 
 - 
 - 
 161
       Trading securities
   162 
 44 
 1 
 207
     Residential mortgage loans held for sale
   - 
 2,856 
 - 
 2,856
   Residential mortgage loans
(b)   - 
 - 
 76 
 76
   Derivative assets:
       Interest rate contracts
   2 
 1,445 
 60 
 1,507
     Foreign exchange contracts
   - 
 201 
 - 
 201
     Equity contracts
   - 
 - 
 177 
 177
     Commodity contracts
   - 
 87 
 - 
 87
       Derivative assets
   2 
 1,733 
 237 
 1,972
Total assets
 $ 284 
 18,876 
 314 
 19,474
  Liabilities:
     Derivative liabilities
       Interest rate contracts
 $ 14 
 600 
 3 
 617
     Foreign exchange contracts
   - 
 183 
 - 
 183
     Equity contracts
   - 
 - 
 33 
 33
     Commodity contracts
   - 
 82 
 - 
 82
       Derivative liabilities
   14 
 865 
 36 
 915
  Short positions
   8 
 2 
 - 
 10
Total liabilities
 $ 22 
 867 
 36 
 925
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  147  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  Fair Value Measurements Using
  December 31, 2011 ($ in millions) 
 Level 1
(c) 
 Level 2
(c)  
Level 3
 Total Fair Value 
Assets: 
     Available-for-sale securities:
       U.S. Treasury and Government agencies
 $  171 
 - 
 - 
 171
     U.S. Government sponsored agencies 
  - 
 1,962 
 - 
 1,962
     Obligations of states and political subdivisions 
  - 
 101 
 - 
 101
     Agency mortgage-backed securities 
  - 
 10,284 
 - 
 10,284
     Other bonds, notes and debentures 
  - 
 1,812 
 - 
 1,812
     Other securities
(a)   185 
 5 
 - 
 190
       Available-for-sale securities
(a)   356 
 14,164 
 - 
 14,520
     Trading securities:
       Obligations of states and political subdivisions
   - 
 8 
 1 
 9     Agency mortgage-backed securities 
  - 
 11 
 - 
 11
     Other bonds, notes and debentures 
  - 
 13 
 - 
 13
     Other securities 
  144 
 - 
 - 
 144
       Trading securities 
  144 
 32 
 1 
 177
     Residential mortgage loans held for sale
   - 
 2,751 
 - 
 2,751
   Residential mortgage loans
(b)   - 
 - 
 65 
 65
   Derivative assets: 
      Interest rate contracts
   8 
 1,773 
 34 
 1,815
     Foreign exchange contracts 
  - 
 294 
 - 
 294
     Equity contracts 
  - 
 - 
 113 
 113
     Commodity contracts 
  - 
 134 
 - 
 134
       Derivative assets 
  8 
 2,201 
 147 
 2,356
Total assets 
$  508 
 19,148 
 213 
 19,869
  Liabilities:
     Derivative liabilities
       Interest rate contracts
 $  54 
 802 
 2 
 858
     Foreign exchange contracts 
  - 
 275 
 - 
 275
     Equity contracts 
  - 
 - 
 81 
 81
     Commodity contracts 
  - 
 130 
 - 
 130
       Derivative liabilities 
  54 
 1,207 
 83 
 1,344
  Short positions
   2 
 4 
 - 
 6Total liabilities 
$  56 
 1,211 
 83 
 1,350
(a) Excludes FHLB and FRB restricted stock totaling 
$497
 and 
$347
, respectively, at 
December 31, 2012
 and $497 and $345, respectively, at December 31, 2011. 
(b) Includes residential mortgage loans originated as held for 
sale and subsequently transferred to held for investment. 
(c) During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, no assets 
or liabilities were transferred between Level 1 and Level 2.  
     
The following is a description of the valuation methodologies used 
for significant instruments measured 
at fair value, as well as the 
general classification of such inst
ruments pursuant 
to the valuation 
hierarchy.  
 
Available-for-sale an
d trading securities 
Where quoted prices are available in 
an active market, securities are 
classified within Level 1 of the valu
ation hierarchy. Level 1 securities include government bonds and exchange traded equities. If quoted 
market prices are not available, then
 fair values are estimated using 
pricing models, quoted prices of securities with similar 

characteristics, or discounted 
cash flows. Examples of such 
instruments, which are classified within Level 2 of the valuation 

hierarchy, include agency and non-agency mortgage-backed 

securities, other asset-backed s
ecurities, obligations of U.S. 
Government sponsored agencies, and corporate and municipal 

bonds. Corporate bonds are included in other bonds, notes and 
debentures in the previous table. Agency mortgage-backed 
securities, obligations of U.S. Government sponsored agencies, and 

corporate and municipal bonds are generally valued using a market 

approach based on observable prices
 of securities with similar 
characteristics.  Non-agency mortgage-backed securities and other asset-backed 
securities, which are included in other bonds, notes and debentures, 
are generally valued using an income approach based on discounted 

cash flows, incorporating prepayment speeds, performance of 

underlying collateral and specific tr
anche-level attributes. In certain 
cases where there is limited activity or less transparency around 

inputs to the valuation, securities 
are classified within Level 3 of the 
valuation hierarchy.  

 Residential mortgage loans held for sale  
For residential mortgage loans held 
for sale, fair value is estimated 
based upon mortgage-backed securiti
es prices and spreads to those 
prices or, for certain ARM loans, DCF models that may incorporate 

the anticipated portfolio composition,
 credit spreads of asset-backed 
securities with similar collateral and market conditions. The 

anticipated portfolio composition includes the effect of interest rate 

spreads and discount rates due to loan characteristics such as the 
state in which the loan was orig
inated, the loan amount and the 
ARM margin. Residential mortgage loans held for sale that are 

valued based on mortgage backed s
ecurities prices are classified 
within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy as the valuation is based on 

external pricing for similar instruments. ARM loans classified as 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  148  Fifth Third Bancorp 
held for sale are also classified 
within Level 2 of the valuation 
hierarchy due to the use of observable inputs in the DCF model. 

These observable inputs include interest rate spreads from agency 

mortgage-backed securities market
 rates and observable discount 
rates.  
 
Residential mortgage loans 
Residential mortgage loans held for sale that are reclassified to held 

for investment are transferred from 
Level 2 to Level 3 of the fair 
value hierarchy. It is the Bancor
p™s policy to value any transfers 
between levels of the fair value hierarchy based on end of period 

fair values.  For residential mortgage loans reclassified from held for sale to 
held for investment, the fair value estimation is based on mortgage-

backed securities prices, intere
st rate risk and an internally 
developed credit component. Therefore, these loans are classified 

within Level 3 of the valuation hier
archy. An adverse change in the 
loss rate or severity assumption woul
d result in a decrease in fair 
value of the related loan. The Secondary Marketing Department, 

which reports to the Bancorp™s Chief Operating Officer, in 
conjunction with the Consumer 
Credit Risk Department, which 
reports to the Bancorp™s Chief Risk Officer, are responsible for 

determining the valuation methodology for residential mortgage 

loans held for investment. The Secondary Marketing Department 

reviews loss severity assumptions quarterly to determine if 

adjustments are necessary based on 
decreases in observable housing 
market data. This group also reviews trades in comparable 

benchmark securities and adjusts the values of loans as necessary. 
Consumer Credit Risk is responsible for the credit component of 
the fair value which is based on internally developed loss rate 

models that take into account hist
orical loss rates and loss severities 
based on underlying collateral values. 

 
Derivatives 

Exchange-traded derivatives valued using quoted prices and certain 

over-the-counter derivatives valued using active bids are classified 
within Level 1 of the valuation hi
erarchy. Most of the Bancorp™s
derivative contracts are valued usin
g discounted cash flow or other 
models that incorporate current market interest rates, credit spreads 

assigned to the derivative counterparties and other market 

parameters and, therefore, are classified within Level 2 of the 

valuation hierarchy. Such derivati
ves include basic and structured 
interest rate swaps and options. Derivatives that are valued based 

upon models with significant u
nobservable market parameters are 
classified within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. At December 
31, 2012 and 2011, derivatives classified
 as Level 3, which are valued 
using models containing unobservabl
e inputs, consisted primarily of 
warrants associated with the sale of the processing business to 

Advent International and a total re
turn swap associated with the 
Bancorp™s sale of Visa, Inc. Class B shares. Level 3 derivatives also 

include interest rate lock commitments, which utilize internally 

generated loan closing rate assumptions as a significant 
unobservable input in the valuation process.  
In connection with the sale of the processing business, the 
Bancorp provided Advent International with certain put options 

that were exercisable in the even
t of certain circumstances. The put 
options expired as a result of the Vantiv, Inc. initial public offering 

in March of 2012. In addition, the associated warrants allow the 

Bancorp to purchase approximately 20 million incremental 

nonvoting units in Vantiv Holding, LLC under certain defined 
conditions involving change of control. The fair value of the 
warrants is calculated in conjunction with a third party valuation 
provider by applying Black-Scholes option valuation models using 

probability weighted scenarios whic
h contain the following inputs: 
Vantiv, Inc. stock price, strike price per the Warrant Agreement and 
several unobservable inputs, such
 as expected term, expected 
volatility, and expected dividend rate.  
For the warrants, an increase in 
the expected term (years), the 
expected volatility and the risk free 
rate assumptions would result in 
an increase in the fair value; co
rrespondingly, a decrease in these 
assumptions would result in a decrease in the fair value. The 

Accounting and Treasury Departments, both of which report to the 

Bancorp™s Chief Financial Officer, determined the valuation 
methodology for the warrants and put option. Accounting and 
Treasury review changes in fair value on a quarterly basis for 

reasonableness based on changes in historical and implied 

volatilities, expected terms, prob
ability weightings of the related 
scenarios, and other assumptions. 
Under the terms of the total return swap, the Bancorp will 
make or receive payments based on subsequent changes in the 

conversion rate of the Visa, Inc. Cl
ass B shares into Class A shares. 
The fair value of the total return swap was calculated using a 
discounted cash flow model 
based on unobservable inputs consisting of management™s estimate of the probability of certain 

litigation scenarios, the timing 
of the resolution of the Covered 
Litigation and Visa litigation loss esti
mates in excess, or shortfall, of 
the Bancorp™s proportional share of escrow funds. 
An increase in the loss estimate or a delay in the resolution of 
the Covered Litigation would result 
in an increase in fair value; 
correspondingly, a decrease in the loss estimate or an acceleration of 
the resolution of the Covered Litigation would result in a decrease 

in fair value. The Accounting and Treasury Departments 

determined the valuation methodol
ogy for the total return swap. 
Accounting and Treasury review the changes in fair value on a 

quarterly basis for reasonableness based on Visa stock price 

changes, litigation contingencies, and escrow funding. The net fair value of the intere
st rate lock commitments at 
December 31, 2012 was $60 million. Immediate decreases in current 
interest rates of 25 bps and 50 bps would result in increases in the 

fair value of the interest rate 
lock commitments of approximately 
$24 million and $39 million, respectively. Immediate increases of 

current interest rates of 25 bps and 50 bps would result in decreases 

in the fair value of the interest rate lock commitments of 

approximately $32 million and $69 million, respectively. The 

decrease in fair value of interest rate lock commitments due to 
immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in the assumed loan 
closing rates would be approximately $6 million and $12 million, 

respectively, and the increase in fair value due to immediate 10% 

and 20% favorable changes in the assumed loan closing rates would 

be approximately $6 million and $12 million, respectively. These 

sensitivities are hypothetical and should be used with caution, as 

changes in fair value based on a variation in assumptions typically 

cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in 
assumptions to the change in f
air value may not be linear.  
The Secondary Marketing Department and the Consumer Line 
of Business Finance Department, which reports to the Bancorp™s 

Chief Financial Officer, are responsible for determining the 

valuation methodology for IRLCs. Secondary Marketing, in 

conjunction with a third party 
valuation provider, periodically 
review loan closing rate assump
tions and recent loan sales to 
determine if adjustments are needed for current market conditions 
not reflected in historical data.  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  149  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 The following tables are a reconciliation of
 assets and liabilities measured at fair v
alue on a recurring basis using significa
nt unobservable inputs
(Level 3):    Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3)
    Residential Interest Rate 
Equity  For the year ended December 31, 2012
 Trading
 Mortgage  
Derivatives, 
Derivatives,
 Total ($ in millions) 
Securities
 Loans Net(a) Net(a) Fair Value
 Beginning balance 
$  1 
 65 
 32 
 32 
$ 130 
   Total gains or losses (realized/unrealized): 
      Included in earnings
   - 
 - 
 418 
 22 
 440 
   Purchases
   - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
   Settlements
   - 
 (15)
 (393)
 90 
 (318)
   Transfers into Level 3
(b)   - 
 26 
 - 
 - 
 26 
Ending balance
 $ 1 
 76 
 57 
 144 
$ 278 
The amount of total gains or losses for the period
       included in earnings attributable to the change in
      unrealized gains or losses relating to assets
      still held at December 31, 2012
(c) $ - 
 - 
 233 
 22 
$ 255 
  Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3)
    Residential Interest Rate 
Equity   For the year ended December 31, 2011
 Trading
 Mortgage  
Derivatives, 
Derivatives,
  Total ($ in millions) 
Securities
 Loans Net(a) Net(a)  Fair Value
Beginning balance 
$  6 
 46 
2  53 
$ 107 
   Total gains or losses (realized/unrealized): 
       Included in earnings
   - 
 4 
 205 
(43)
 166 
   Purchases 
  - 
 - 
 - 
 2 
 2    Sales 
 (5)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (5)
   Settlements 
  - 
(9)
(175)
 20 
 (164)
   Transfers into Level 3
(b)   - 
 24 
 - 
 - 
 24 
Ending balance 
$  1 
 65 
 32 
32 
$ 130 
The amount of total gains or losses for the period 
      included in earnings attributable to the change in
       unrealized gains or losses relating to assets
       still held at December 31, 2011
(c) $  - 
 4 
 32 
(43)
$ (7)
  Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Level 3)
  Residual   Residential Interest Rate 
Equity    For the year ended December 31, 2010
 Interests in 
 Trading
 Mortgage  
Derivatives,  
Derivatives,
  Total ($ in millions) 
Securitizations
Securities
 Loans Net(a) Net(a)  Fair Value
Beginning balance 
$ 174 
 13 
 26
(2)
11$  222 
   Total gains or losses (realized/unrealized): 
        Included in earnings
   - 
 3 
 -187 
(14)
  176 
   Purchases, sales, issuances, and settlements, net 
 (174)
(d) (10)
(6)
(183)
56 (317)
   Transfers into Level 3
(b)   - 
 - 
 26
 - 
 -  26 
Ending balance 
$  - 
 6 
 46
 2 
 53
$  107 
The amount of total gains or losses for the period 
        included in earnings attributable to the change in
         unrealized gains or losses relating to assets
         still held at December 31, 2010
(c) $  - 
 - 
 -60 
(14)
$ 46 
(a) Net interest rate derivatives include derivative assets and liabilities of 
$60 
and $3, respectively, as of 
December 31, 2012
, $34 and $2, respectively as of December 31, 2011 and $13 and $11, 
respectively, as of December 31, 2010. Net equity de
rivatives include derivative assets and liabilities of 
$177
 and 
$33, respectively, as of 
December 31, 2012,
 $113 and $81, respectively, as of 
December 31, 2011, and $81 and $28, r
espectively, as of December 31, 2010. 
(b) Includes residential mortgage loans held for sale 
that were transferred to held for investment. 
(c) Includes interest income and expense. 
(d) Due to a change in U.S. GAAP adopted by the Bancorp on January 
1, 2010, all residual interests in securitizations were eliminat
ed concurrent with the consolidation of the related VIEs. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  150  Fifth Third Bancorp 
The total gains and losses included in earn
ings for assets and liabilities measured at
 fair value on a recurring basis using si
gnificant unobservable 
inputs (Level 3) were recorded in the C
onsolidated Statements of Income as follows:
    ($ in millions)
 2012 
 2011 
 2010  
Mortgage banking net revenue 
  418 
 210 
 187 
Corporate banking revenue 
  1 
 2 
 1 
Other noninterest income 
  21 
 (46)
 (15)
Securities gains, net 
  - 
 - 
 3 
Total gains 
$ 440 
 166 
 176 
 The total gains and losses included in earnin
gs attributable to changes in unrealized 
gains and losses related to Level 3 asset
s and liabilities still held 
at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 were recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Income as follows:
   ($ in millions)
 2012 
 2011 
 2010  
Mortgage banking net revenue 
  233 
 37 
 60 
Corporate banking revenue 
  1 
 1 
 1 
Other noninterest income 
  21 
 (45)
 (15)
Total (losses) gains 
$ 255 
 (7)
 46 
   The following table presents information as of December 31, 2012 a
bout significant unobservable inpu
ts related to the Bancorp™s
 material 
categories of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities measured on a recurring basis:
       ($ in millions) 
       Financial Instrument 
  Fair Value 
 Valuation Technique 
Significant Unobservable 
Inputs  
Ranges of 
Inputs 
 Weighted-Average
Residential mortgage loans  
$ 76  
Loss rate model  
Interest rate risk factor  
(91.2) - 17.0%
5.8%
    Credit risk factor  0 - 68.4%
4.3%
IRLCs, net  
 60 
 Discounted cash flow  
Loan closing rates  
9.9 - 95.0%
58.3%
Stock warrants associated with the sale  
 177 
 Black-Scholes option 
Expected term (years)  
2.00 - 16.50
6.2 
of the processing business  
  valuation model 
 Expected volatility(a) 27.2 - 40.0%
33.8%
    Expected dividend rate 
 --Swap associated with th
e sale of Visa, Inc.  
 (33)
 Discounted cash flow  
Timing of the resolution  
12/31/2013 -
NMClass B shares 
   of the Covered Litigation
 12/31/2016
(a) Based on historical and implied volatilities of co
mparable companies assuming similar expected terms.
 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a 
Nonrecurring Basis 
Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a 

nonrecurring basis. These assets 
and liabilities are not measured at 
fair value on an ongoing basis; 
however, they are subject to fair 
value adjustments in certain circum
stances, such as when there is 
evidence of impairment.  
 The following tables represent those assets that were subject 
to fair value adjustments duri
ng the years ended December 31, 201
2 and 2011 and 
still held as of the end of the period, and the related losses from
 fair value adjustments on assets sold during the period as 
well as assets still held as
of the end of the period: 
     Fair Value Measurements Using
   Total Losses 
As of December 31, 2012  ($ in millions)
  Level 1
 Level 2 
Level 3 
Total 
2012 
 Commercial loans held for sale
(a) $ - 
 - 
 9 
 9 
 (13)
Commercial and industrial loans
   - 
 - 
 83 
 83 
 (122)
Commercial mortgage loans
   - 
 - 
 46 
 46 
 (50)
Commercial construction loans
   - 
 - 
 4 
 4 
 (22)
MSRs   - 
 - 
 697 
 697 
 (103)
OREO property
   - 
 - 
 165 
 165 
 (74)
Total 
 $ - 
 - 
 1,004 
 1,004 
 (384)
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  151  Fifth Third Bancorp 
   Fair Value Measurements Using
   Total Losses 
As of December 31, 2011
 ($ in millions) 
 Level 1
 Level 2 
Level 3 
Total 
2011  
Commercial loans held for sale
(a) $  - 
 - 
 27 
 27 
 (67)
Commercial and industrial loans 
  - 
 - 
 101 
 101 
 (328)
Commercial mortgage loans 
  - 
 - 
 85 
 85 
 (124)
Commercial construction loans 
  - 
 - 
 55 
 55 
 (60)
MSRs   - 
 - 
 681 
 681 
 (242)
OREO property 
  - 
 - 
 224 
 224 
 (171)
Total  
$  - 
 - 
 1,173 
 1,173 
 (992)
(a) Includes commercial nonaccrual loans held for sale. 
The following table presents information as of December 31, 2012 a
bout significant unobservable inpu
ts related to the Bancorp™s
 material
categories of Level 3 financial assets 
and liabilities measured on a nonrecurring basis:
        ($ in millions) 
       Financial Instrument 
  Fair Value 
 Valuation Technique 
Significant Unobservable 
Inputs  
Ranges of 
Inputs  
 Weighted-Average 
Commercial loans held for sale  
$ 9  Appraised value 
Appraised value  
NMNM     Cost to sell  NM10.0%
Commercial and industrial loans 
 83 
 Appraised value 
Default rates  
100%
NM     Collateral value 
 NMNM     Loss severities 
 0 - 100%
8.9%
Commercial mortgage loans  
 46 
 Appraised value 
Default rates  
100%
NM     Collateral value 
 NMNM     Loss severities 
 0 - 100%
19.9%
Commercial construction loans  
 4  Appraised value 
Default rates  
100%
NM     Collateral value 
 NMNM     Loss severities 
 0 - 21.5%
8.9%
MSRs  697 
 Discounted cash flow 
Prepayment speed  
0 - 100%
(Fixed) 16.1%
(Adjustable) 26.9%
    Discount rates
 9.4 - 18.0%
(Fixed) 10.5% 
(Adjustable) 11.7%
OREO property  
 165 
 Appraised value 
Appraised value  
NMNM      Commercial loans held for sale 
During 2012, the Bancorp transferred $16 million of commercial 

loans from the portfolio to loans held for sale that upon transfer 
were measured at fair value usin
g significant unobservable inputs. 
These loans had fair value adjustments totaling $1 million and were 

generally based on appraisals of the underlying collateral and were 

therefore, classified within Leve
l 3 of the valuation hierarchy. 
Additionally, during 2012 there were fair value adjustments on 

existing commercial loans held for s
ale of $12 million. The fair value 
adjustments are also based on appr
aisals of the underlying collateral 
and were therefore classified wi
thin Level 3 of the valuation 
hierarchy. An adverse change in the fair value of the underlying 
collateral would result in a decrease
 in the fair value measurement. 
The Accounting Department determines the procedures for 

valuation of commercial HFS loans which may include a 

comparison to recently executed transa
ctions of similar type loans. 
A monthly review of the portfolio is performed for reasonableness. 

Quarterly, appraisals approachin
g a year-old are updated and the 
Real Estate Valuation group, which reports to the Chief Credit 
Officer, in conjunction with th
e Commercial Line of Business 
review the third party appraisals for reasonableness. Additionally, 

the Commercial Line of Business Finance Department, which 

reports to the Bancorp Chief Financial Officer, in conjunction with 

Accounting review all loan appr
aisal values, carrying values and 
vintages. 
 
Commercial loans held for investment  
During 2012 and 2011, the Bancorp recorded nonrecurring 
impairment adjustments to cert
ain commercial and industrial, 
commercial mortgage and commercial construction loans held for 
investment. Larger commercial loan
s included within aggregate 
borrower relationship balances ex
ceeding $1 million that exhibit 
probable or observed credit weak
nesses are subject to individual 
review for impairment. The Bancorp considers the current value of 
collateral, credit quality of any guar
antees, the guarantor™s liquidity 
and willingness to cooperate, the loan structure and other factors 

when evaluating whether an indivi
dual loan is impaired. When the 
loan is collateral dependent, the f
air value of the loan is generally 
based on the fair value of the underlying collateral supporting the 

loan and therefore these loans were 
classified within Level 3 of the 
valuation hierarchy. In cases wh
ere the carrying value exceeds the 
fair value, an impairmen
t loss is recognized.  
An adverse change in the fair v
alue of the underlying collateral 
would result in a decrease in th
e fair value measurement. The fair 
values and recognized impairmen
t losses are reflected in the 
previous table. Commercial Credit 
Risk, which reports to the Chief 
Risk Officer, is responsible for 
preparing and reviewing the fair 
value estimates for commercial loans held for investment. 

 MSRs 
During 2012 and 2011, the Bancorp recognized temporary 

impairments in certain classes of
 the MSR portfolio in which the 
carrying value was adjusted to fair value. MSRs do not trade in an 

active, open market with readily observable prices. While sales of 

MSRs do occur, the precise terms 
and conditions typically are not 
readily available. Accordingly, the Bancorp estimates the fair value 

of MSRs using internal discounted 
cash flow models with certain 
unobservable inputs, primarily 
prepayment speed assumptions, 
discount rates and weighted average 
lives, resulting in a classification 
within Level 3 of the valuation hi
erarchy. Refer to Note 11 for 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  152  Fifth Third Bancorp 
further information on the assumptions
 used in the valuation of the 
Bancorp™s MSRs. The Secondary Marketing Department and 

Treasury Department are responsibl
e for determining the valuation 
methodology for MSRs. Representatives from Secondary Marketing, 
Treasury, Accounting and Risk Management are responsible for 
reviewing key assumptions used in 
the internal discounted cash flow 
model. Two external valuations of
 the MSR portfolio are obtained 
from third parties that use valuati
on models in order to assess the 
reasonableness of the internal di
scounted cash flow model. 
Additionally, the Bancorp participates in peer surveys that provide 

additional confirmation of the re
asonableness of key assumptions 
utilized in the MSR valuation process and the resulting MSR prices. 
 OREO 
During 2012 and 2011, the Bancorp recorded nonrecurring 

adjustments to certain commercial and residential real estate 

properties classified as OREO and measured at the lower of 

carrying amount or fair value. These nonrecurring losses are 

primarily due to declines in real estate values of the properties 

recorded in OREO. For the years ended December 31, 2012 and 
2011, these losses include $17 million and $100 million in losses, 
respectively, recorded as charge-offs, on new OREO properties 

transferred from loans during the periods and $57 million and $71 

million, respectively, in losses, recorded in other noninterest 

income, attributable to fair valu
e adjustments on OREO properties 
subsequent to their transfer from loans. As discussed in the 

following paragraphs, the fair value amounts are generally based on 

appraisals of the property values, re
sulting in a classification within 
Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. In cases where the carrying 
amount exceeds the fair value, less 
costs to sell, an impairment loss 
is recognized. The previous ta
bles reflect the fair value 
measurements of the properties before deducting the estimated 

costs to sell. 
The Real Estate Valuation department, which reports to the 
Chief Credit Officer, is solely responsible for managing the appraisal 

process and evaluating the appraisal for all commercial properties 
transferred to OREO. All appraisals on commercial OREO 
properties are updated on at least an annual basis. The Real Estate Valuation department reviews the BPO data 
and internal market information to
 determine the initial charge-off 
on residential real estate loans transferred to OREO. Once the 
foreclosure process is completed, the Bancorp performs an interior 

inspection to update the initial fair value of the property. These 

properties are reviewed at least ever
y 30 days after the initial interior 
inspections are completed. The Asset Manager receives a monthly 
status report for each property which includes the number of 

showings, recently sold properties,
 current comparable listings and 
overall market conditions. 
 Fair Value Option 
The Bancorp elected to measure certain residential mortgage loans 

held for sale under the fair value option as allowed under U.S. 
GAAP. Electing to measure residential mortgage loans held for sale 
at fair value reduces certain timing differences and better matches 

changes in the value of these assets with changes in the value of 

derivatives used as economic hedges for these assets. Management™s 

intent to sell residential mortgage loans classified as held for sale 

may change over time due to such factors as changes in the overall 

liquidity in markets or changes in 
characteristics specific to certain 
loans held for sale. Consequently, these loans may be reclassified to 
loans held for investment and main
tained in the Bancorp™s loan 
portfolio. In such cases, the loan
s will continue to be measured at 
fair value.  
Fair value changes recognized in
 earnings for instruments held 
at December 31, 2012 and 2011 for which the fair value option was 

elected as well as the changes in f
air value of the underlying IRLCs, 
included gains of $157 million and $123 million, respectively. 

Additionally, fair value changes incl
uded in earnings for instruments 
for which the fair value option was 
elected but are no longer held by 
the Bancorp at December 31, 2012 and 2011 included gains of $849 

million and $341 million during 2012 and 2011, respectively. These 

gains are reported in mortgage banking net revenue in the 

Consolidated Statements of Income.  
Valuation adjustments related to 
instrument-specific credit risk 
for residential mortgage loans measured at fair value negatively 

impacted the fair value of those loans by $3 million at December 31, 
2012 and 2011. Interest on residential mortgage loans measured at 
fair value is accrued as it is earned using the effective interest 

method and is reported as interest income in the Consolidated 

Statements of Income.
  The following table summarizes the difference between the fair 
value and the principal balance for residential mortgage loans m
easured at fair
value as of:        Aggregate 
Aggregate Unpaid 
  ($ in millions) 
Fair Value 
Principal Balance 
 Difference December 31, 2012
  Residential mortgage loans measured at fair value 
$ 2,932 
 2,775 
 157 
Past due loans of 90 days or more
   3 
 4 
 (1)
Nonaccrual loans
   - 
 1 
 (1)
  December 31, 2011 
 Residential mortgage loans measured at fair value 
$ 2,816 
 2,693 
 123 
Past due loans of 90 days or more 
  4 
 5 
 (1)
Nonaccrual loans 
  - 
 - 
 - 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  153  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  Fair Value of Certain Financial Instruments
   The following tables summarize the carryin
g amounts and estimated fair values for 
certain financial instruments, excluding fina
ncial instruments 
measured at fair value on a recurring basis:     Net Carrying
 Fair Value Measurements Using  
Total  
As of December 31, 2012 ($ in millions)
  Amount
 Level 1 
Level 2 
Level 3 
Fair Value 
Financial assets: 
    Cash and due from banks
 $ 2,441
 2,441 
 - 
 - 
 2,441
   Other securities
   844
 - 
 844 
 - 
 844
   Held-to-maturity securities
   284
 - 
 - 
 284 
 284
   Other short-term investments
   2,421
 2,421 
 - 
 - 
 2,421
   Loans held for sale
   83
 - 
 - 
 83 
 83
   Portfolio loans and leases:
        Commercial and industrial loans
   35,236
 - 
 - 
 36,496 
 36,496
      Commercial mortgage loans
   8,770
 - 
 - 
 8,020 
 8,020
      Commercial construction loans
   665
 - 
 - 
 505 
 505
      Commercial leases
   3,481
 - 
 - 
 3,310 
 3,310
      Residential mortgage loans
(a)   11,712
 - 
 - 
 11,532 
 11,532
      Home equity
   9,875
 - 
 - 
 9,798 
 9,798
      Automobile loans
   11,944
 - 
 - 
 12,076 
 12,076
      Credit card
   2,010
 - 
 - 
 2,139 
 2,139
      Other consumer loans and leases
   270
 - 
 - 
 288 
 288
      Unallocated allowance for loan and lease losses
   (111)
 - 
 - 
 - 
 -   Total portfolio loans and leases, net
(a)   83,852
 - 
 - 
 84,164 
 84,164
Financial liabilities:
     Deposits
   89,517
 - 
 89,592 
 - 
 89,592
   Federal funds purchased
   901
 901 
 - 
 - 
 901
   Other short-term borrowings
   6,280
 - 
 6,280 
 - 
 6,280
   Long-term debt
   7,085
 6,925 
 884 
 7,809
(a) Excludes $76 
of residential mortgage loans measured at fair value on a recurring basis. 
    Net Carrying
 As of December 31, 2011
 ($ in millions) 
 Amount
 Fair Value 
Financial assets: 
    Cash and due from banks
 $ 2,663 
 2,663 
   Other securities 
  842 
 842 
   Held-to-maturity securities 
  322 
 322 
   Other short-term investments 
  1,781 
 1,781 
   Loans held for sale 
  203 
 203 
   Portfolio loans and leases: 
       Commercial and industrial loans
   29,854 
 30,300 
      Commercial mortgage loans 
  9,697 
 8,870 
      Commercial construction loans 
  943 
 791 
      Commercial leases 
  3,451 
 3,237 
      Residential mortgage loans
(a)   10,380 
 9,978 
      Home equity 
  10,524 
 9,737 
      Automobile loans 
  11,784 
 11,747 
      Credit card 
  1,872 
 1,958 
      Other consumer loans and leases 
  329 
 346 
      Unallocated allowance for loan and lease losses 
  (136)
 - 
   Total portfolio loans and leases, net
(a)   78,698 
 76,964 
Financial liabilities: 
    Deposits
   85,710 
 85,599 
   Federal funds purchased 
  346 
 346 
   Other short-term borrowings 
  3,239 
 3,239 
   Long-term debt 
  9,682 
 10,197 
(a) Excludes $65 of residential mortgage loans measured at fair value on a recurring basis. 
  Cash and due from banks, other securit
ies, other short-term investments, 
deposits, federal funds purchased and other short-term borrowings 

For financial instruments with a short-term or no stated maturity, 
prevailing market rates and limited credit risk, carrying amounts 
approximate fair value. Those fina
ncial instruments include cash and 
due from banks, FHLB and FRB restricted stock, other short-term 

investments, certain deposits (demand, interest checking, savings, 
money market and foreign office deposits), and federal funds 
purchased. Fair values for other time deposits, certificates of deposit 

$100,000 and over and other short-term borrowings were estimated 
using a discounted cash flow calculation that applied prevailing 
LIBOR/swap interest rates for the same maturities. 

 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  154  Fifth Third Bancorp 
Held-to-maturity securities 
The Bancorp™s held-to-maturity secu
rities are primarily composed of 
instruments that provide income tax credits as the economic return 

on the investment. The fair value of these instruments is estimated 
based on current U.S. Treasury tax credit rates. 
 
Loans held for sale 

Fair values for commercial loans held for sale were valued based on 

executable bids when available, or on
 discounted cash flow models 
incorporating appraisals of the un
derlying collateral, as well as 
assumptions about investor return requirements and amounts and 

timing of expected cash flows. F
air values for other consumer loans 
held for sale are based on contractual values upon which the loans 
may be sold to a third party, and approximate their carrying value. 
 
Portfolio loans and leases, net 

Fair values were estimated by di
scounting future cash flows using 
the current market rates of loans to borrowers with similar credit 

characteristics and similar remaining maturities. 
 Long-term debt Fair value of long-term debt was 
based on quoted market prices, 
when available, or a discounted cash flow calculation using 

LIBOR/swap interest rates and, in some cases, a spread for new 

issuances with similar terms. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  155  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 27. CERTAIN REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS AND CAPITAL RATIOS The principal source of income and funds for the Bancorp (parent 
company) are dividends from its subsidiaries. The dividends paid by 
the Bancorp™s banking subsidiary 
are subject to regulations and 
limitations prescribed by the appropriate state and federal 

supervisory authorities. The Bancorp™s nonbank subsidiaries are also 

limited by certain federal and state statutory provisions and 

regulations covering the amount of
 dividends that may be paid in 
any given year. The Bancorp™s banking subsidiary must maintain cash reserve 
balances when total reservable depos
it liabilities are greater than the 
regulatory exemption. These reserv
e requirements may be satisfied 
with vault cash and balances on de
posit with the FRB. In 2012 and 
2011, the banking subsidiary was required to maintain average cash 

reserve balances of $1.5 billion and $744 million, respectively. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued 
capital adequacy guidelines pursuant to which it assesses the 

adequacy of capital in examining and supervising a bank holding 

company and in analyzing applicati
ons to it under the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956, as amende
d. These guidelines include 
quantitative measures that assign ri
sk weightings to assets and off-
balance sheet items, as well as define and set minimum regulatory 

capital requirements. All bank holding companies are required to 

maintain Tier I capital (core capital) of at least four percent of risk-

weighted assets (Tier I capital ratio), total capital (Tier I plus Tier II 

capital) of at least eight percent of risk-weighted assets (Total risk-

based capital ratio), and Tier I capital of at least three percent of 
adjusted quarterly average assets (Tier I leverage ratio). Failure to 
meet the minimum capital requiremen
ts can initiate certain actions 
by regulators that could have a direct material effect on the 

Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bancorp.   
Tier I capital consists princi
pally of shareholders™ equity 
including Tier I qualifying TruPS. 
It excludes unrealized gains and 
losses on available-for-sale securiti
es and unrecognized pension 
actuarial gains and losses and prior service cost, goodwill, certain 
other intangibles and unrealized cash flow hedges. Current 
provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act will phase out the inclusion of 

certain TruPS as a component of Tier I capital beginning January 1, 

2013. Under these provisions, these TruPS would qualify as a 

component of Tier II capital. At December 31, 2012, the Bancorp™s 
Tier I capital included $810 million of TruPS representing 
approximately 74 bps of risk-weighted assets. 
Tier II capital consists principally of term subordinated debt, 
redeemable preferred stock and, subject to limitations, allowances 

for loan and lease losses.  
Assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-balance-sheet 
items are assigned to one of several broad risk categories, according 

to the obligor, guarantor or nature
 of collateral. The aggregate dollar 
value of the amount of each category
 is multiplied by the associated 
risk weighting of that category. Th
e resulting weighted values from 
each of the risk categories in su
m is the total risk-weighted assets. 
Quarterly average assets for this
 purpose do not include goodwill 
and any other intangible assets an
d other investments that the FRB 
determines should be deducted from Tier I capital.   
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued 
capital adequacy guidelines for banking subsidiaries substantially 

similar to those adopted by the Board of Governors of the Federal 

Reserve System regarding bank holding companies, as described 
previously. In addition, the feder
al banking agencies have issued 
substantially similar regulations to implement the system of prompt 

corrective action established by Section 38 of the Federal Deposit 

Insurance Act. Under the regulations, a bank generally shall be 

deemed to be well-capitalized if it has a Total risk-based capital ratio 

of 10% or more, a Tier I capital ratio of six percent or more, a Tier 

I leverage ratio of five percent or more and is not subject to any 

written capital order or directive. If an institution becomes 
undercapitalized, it would become subject to significant additional 
oversight, regulations and requirements as mandated by the Federal 

Deposit Insurance Act.  
The Bancorp and its banking subsidiary, Fifth Third Bank, had 
Tier I capital, Total risk-based capital and Tier I leverage ratios 

above the well-capitalized levels at December 31, 2012 and 2011. As 

of December 31, 2012, the most recent notification from the FRB 

categorized the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary as well-
capitalized under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective 
action. To continue to qualify for financial holding company status 

pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, the Bancorp™s 

banking subsidiary must, among other things, maintain ﬁwell-

capitalizedﬂ capital ratios. 
 The following table presents capital and risk-based capital and 
leverage ratios for the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary at D
ecember 31:     2012 
 2011 
  ($ in millions) 
 Amount  Ratio Amount
Ratio 
Tier I risk-based capital (to risk-weighted assets):
(a)           Fifth Third Bancorp (Consolidated)
 $ 11,685 
 10.65% 
$12,503 
 11.91% 
     Fifth Third Bank 
 12,145  11.28  12,373 
 12.02  
Total risk-based capital (to risk-weighted assets):
(a)            Fifth Third Bancorp (Consolidated)
  15,816 
 14.42  16,885 
 16.09  
     Fifth Third Bank 
 13,721  12.74  14,013 
 13.61  
Tier I leverage (to average assets): 
           Fifth Third Bancorp (Consolidated)
  11,685 
 10.05  12,503 
 11.10  
     Fifth Third Bank 
 12,145  10.65  12,373 
 11.20  
(a) Under the banking agencies risk-based capital guidelines, assets an
d credit equivalent amounts of derivatives and off-balance s
heet exposures are assigned to broad 
risk categories. The aggregate dollar 
amount in each risk category is multipli
ed by the associated risk weight of the 
category. The resulting weighted values are add
ed together resulting in the Banc
orp™s total risk-weighted assets. 
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  156  Fifth Third Bancorp 
28. PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 Condensed Statements of Income (Parent Company Only)
        For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions)
  2012 
 2011 
 2010  
Income        Dividends from subsidiaries:
         Consolidated bank subsidiaries
(a)  $-  -  -   Consolidated nonbank subsidiary 
 1,959 
 1,677 
 1,400 
 Interest on loans to subsidiaries 
 17  29 
 33 
 Total income 
 1,976 
 1,706 
 1,433 
          Expenses
        Interest  215 
 216 
 188 
 Other  61  25 
 26 
 Total expenses 
 276 
 241 
 214 
          Income Before Income Taxes and Change in Undistributed
         Earnings of Subsidiaries
  1,700 
 1,465 
 1,219 
 Applicable income tax benefit 
 96 
 79 
 64 
 Income Before Change in Undist
ributed Earnings of Subsidiaries
  1,796 
 1,544 
 1,283 
 Decrease in undist
ributed earnings 
 (220) (247)
 (530)
 Net Income
  $1,576 
 1,297 
 753 
 (a)  The Bancorp™s indirect banking subsidiary paid dividends, to
 the Bancorp™s direct nonbank subsidiary holding company of 
$2.0 billion
, $2.0 billion, and $1.4 billion for the years ended 
2012
, 2011, and 2010, respectively. 
 Condensed Statements of Comprehensive Income (Parent Company Only)
   For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
  2012 
2011 
2010 
Net income 
 $1,576 
 1,297 
 753 
 Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax: 
        Unrealized gains on cash flow hedge derivatives 
 3  2  (4)
 Other comprehensive income (loss) 
 3  2  (4)
 Comprehensive income 
 1,579 
 1,299 
 749 
  Less: Comprehensive income attrib
utable to noncontrolling interests 
 (2) 1  -  Comprehensive income attributable to Bancorp 
 $1,581 
 1,298 
 749 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  157  Fifth Third Bancorp 
  Condensed Balance Sheets (Parent Company Only)
      As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
 2012 
 2011 
 Assets      Cash 
 $-  50 
 Short-term investments 
 3,481 
 3,588 
 Loans to subsidiaries: 
      Bank subsidiaries 
 -  -   Nonbank subsidiaries 
 1,021 
 1,032 
 Total loans to subsidiaries 
 1,021 
 1,032 
 Investment in subsidiaries 
      Nonbank subsidiaries 
 15,376  15,631 
 Total investment in subsidiaries 
 15,376  15,631 
 Goodwill 
 80 
 80 
 Other assets 
 579 
 731 
 Total Assets
  $20,537 
 21,112 
 Liabilities      Other short-term borrowings 
 566 
 655 
 Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
 456 
 422 
 Long-term debt (external) 
 5,751 
 6,784 
 Total Liabilities
  6,773 
 7,861 
 Parent Company Shareholders' Equity
  13,764  13,251 
 Total Liabilities and Parent Company Shareholders' Equity
  $20,537 
 21,112 
  Condensed Statements of Cash Flows (Parent Company Only)
       For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
 2012 
 2011 
 2010  
Operating Activities
        Net income 
 $1,576 
 1,297 
 753 
 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net 
cash provided by operating activities: 
        Provision for (Benefit from) deferred income taxes 
 2  (3)
 (2)
  Decrease in undist
ributed earnings 
 220 
 247 
 530 
 Net change in: 
        Other assets 
 57 
 39 
 (6)
  Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
 18  3  (339)
 Other, net 
 -  -  (11)
 Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
  1,873 
 1,583 
 925 
 Investing Activities
        Net change in: 
        Short-term investments 
 107  (635)
 (603)
  Loans to subsidiaries 
 11  489 
 (161)
 Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities
  118  (146)
 (764)
 Financing Activities
        Net change in other short-term borrowings 
 (89) 241 
 134 
 Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 
 500 
 1,000 
 -  Repayment of long-term debt 
 (1,440) (400)
 -  Dividends paid on common shares 
 (309) (192)
 (32)
 Dividends paid on preferred shares 
 (35) (50)
 (205)
 Issuance of common shares 
 -  1,648 
 -  Repurchase of treasury shares and related forward contracts 
 (650) -  -  Redemption of Series F preferred shares and related warrants 
 -  (3,688)
 -  Other, net 
 (18) (6)
 -  Net Cash Used in Financing Activities
  (2,041) (1,447)
 (103)
 Net (Decrease) Increase in Cash
  (50) (10)
 58 
 Cash at Beginning of Year
  50 
 60 
 2  Cash at End of Year
  $-  50 
 60 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  158  Fifth Third Bancorp 
29. BUSINESS SEGMENTS 
The Bancorp reports on four business segments: Commercial 
Banking, Branch Banking, C
onsumer Lending and Investment 
Advisors. Results of the Bancorp™s business segments are presented 
based on its management structure and management accounting 

practices. The structure and accounti
ng practices are specific to the 
Bancorp; therefore, the financial results of the Bancorp™s business 

segments are not necessarily comp
arable with similar information 
for other financial institutions. The Bancorp refines its 

methodologies from time to time as management™s accounting 

practices are improved and businesses change. 
The Bancorp manages interest rate risk centrally at the 
corporate level by employing a FTP methodology. This 

methodology insulates the business segments from interest rate 

volatility, enabling them to focus 
on serving customers through loan 
originations and deposit taking
. The FTP system assigns charge 
rates and credit rates to classes of assets and liabilities, respectively, 

based on expected duration and the U.S. swap curve. Matching 

duration allocates interest income and interest expense to each 
segment so its resulting net interest income is insulated from 
interest rate risk. In a rising rate
 environment, the Bancorp benefits 
from the widening spread between deposit costs and wholesale 

funding costs. However, the Bancorp™s FTP system credits this 

benefit to deposit-providing businesses, such as Branch Banking 

and Investment Advisors, on a duration-adjusted basis. The net 

impact of the FTP methodology is captured in General Corporate 

and Other. The Bancorp adjusts the FTP charge and credit rates as 
dictated by changes in interest rates for various interest-earning 
assets and interest-bearing liabilities and by the review of the 
estimated durations for the indeterm
inate-lived deposits. The credit 
rate provided for demand deposit accounts is reviewed annually 

based upon the account type, its estimated duration and the 

corresponding fed funds, U.S. swap curve or swap rate. The credit 

rates for several deposit products were reset January 1, 2012 to 

reflect the current market rates 
and updated market assumptions. 
These rates were lower than thos
e in place during 2011, thus net 
interest income for deposit prov
iding businesses was negatively 
impacted during 2012.  
The business segments are charged provision expense based on 
the actual net charge-offs experi
enced by the loans and leases 
owned by each segment. Provision expense attributable to loan and 

leases growth and changes in ALLL
 factors are captured in General 
Corporate and Other. The financial 
results of the business segments 
include allocations for shared serv
ices and headquarters expenses. 
Even with these allocations, the financial results are not necessarily 
indicative of the business segments™ financial condition and results 

of operations as if they existed as
 independent entities. Additionally, 
the business segments form synergies by taking advantage of cross-

sell opportunities and when funding operations, by accessing the 

capital markets as a collective unit.  Results of operations and assets by segment for each of the 
three years ended December 31 are: 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  159  Fifth Third Bancorp 
                General
     Commercial
 Branch Consumer 
Investment  
Corporate 
  2012
 ($ in millions)
  Banking
 Banking 
Lending 
Advisors and Other 
Eliminations
Total Net interest income  
$ 1,432 
 1,362 
 314 
 117 
 370 
 - 
 3,595
Provision for loan and lease losses
   223 
 294 
 176 
 10 
 (400)
 - 
 303
Net interest income after provision for loan 
      and lease losses
   1,209 
 1,068 
 138 
 107 
 770 
 - 
 3,292
Noninterest income:      Mortgage banking net revenue
   - 
 14 
 830 
 1 
 - 
 - 
 845
    Service charges on deposits
   225 
 294 
 - 
 3 
 - 
 - 
 522
    Corporate banking revenue
   395 
 15 
 - 
 3 
 - 
 413
    Investment advisory revenue
   6 
 129 
 - 
 366 
 - 
 (127)
(a) 374
    Card and processing revenue
   46 
 279 
 - 
 4 
 (76)
 - 
 253
    Other noninterest income
   65 
 81 
 42 
 19 
 367 
 - 
 574
    Securities gains, net
   - 
 - 
 1 
 - 
 14 
 - 
 15
    Securities gains, net - non-qualifying hedges on        
        mortgage servicing rights
   - 
 - 
 3 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 3Total noninterest income
   737 
 812 
 876 
 396 
 305 
 (127)
 2,999
Noninterest expense:      Salaries, wages and incentives
   229 
 448 
 192 
 136 
 602 
 - 
 1,607
    Employee benefits
   39 
 125 
 39 
 25 
 143 
 - 
 371
    Net occupancy expense
   21 
 187 
 8 
 11 
 75 
 - 
 302
    Technology and communications
   10 
 3 
 1 
 - 
 182 
 - 
 196
    Card and processing expense
   5 
 115 
 - 
 - 
 1 
 - 
 121
    Equipment expense
   2 
 54 
 1 
 1 
 52 
 - 
 110
    Other noninterest expense
  800 
660 
429 
264 
 (652)
 (127)
 1,374
Total noninterest expense
   1,106 
 1,592 
 670 
 437 
 403 
 (127)
 4,081
Income before income taxes    840 
 288 
 344 
 66 
 672 
 - 
 2,210
Applicable income tax expense
   146 
 102 
 121 
 23 
 244 
 - 
 636
Net income
   694 
 186 
 223 
 43 
 428 
 - 
 1,574
Less: Net income attributab
le to noncontrolling interests
   - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 (2)
 - 
 (2)
Net income attributable to Bancorp
   694 
 186 
 223 
 43 
 430 
 - 
 1,576
Dividends on preferred stock 
   - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 35 
 - 
 35
Net income available to common shareholders 
 $ 694 
 186 
 223 
 43 
 395 
 - 
 1,541
Total goodwill
 $ 613 
 1,655 
 - 
 148 
 - 
 - 
 2,416
Total assets
 $ 48,693 
 48,856 
 24,657 
 9,212 
 (9,524)
 - 
 121,894
(a) Revenue sharing agreements between Investment Advisors and Branch
 Banking are eliminated in the Consolidated Statements of Inco
me 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  160  Fifth Third Bancorp 
                General
     Commercial
 Branch Consumer 
Investment  
Corporate 
  2011 ($ in millions)
  Banking
 Banking 
Lending 
Advisors and Other 
Eliminations
Total Net interest income  
$ 1,357 
 1,423 
 343 
 113 
 321 
 - 
 3,557 
Provision for loan and lease losses 
  490 
 393 
 261 
 27 
 (748)
 - 
 423 
Net interest income after provision for loan  
     and lease losses
   867 
 1,030 
 82 
 86 
 1,069 
 - 
 3,134 
Noninterest income:      Mortgage banking net revenue
   - 
 11 
 585 
 1 
 - 
 - 
 597 
    Service charges on deposits 
  207 
 309 
 - 
 4 
 - 
 - 
 520 
    Corporate banking revenue 
  332 
 14 
 - 
 3 
 1 
 - 
 350 
    Investment advisory revenue 
  12 
 117 
 - 
 364 
 (1)
 (117)
(a) 375 
    Card and processing revenue 
  38 
 305 
 - 
 4 
 (39)
 - 
 308 
    Other noninterest income 
  52 
 81 
 36 
 (3)
 84 
 - 
 250 
    Securities gains, net 
  - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 46 
 - 
 46 
    Securities gains, net - non-qualifying hedges on 
        mortgage servicing rights
   - 
 - 
 9 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 9 
Total noninterest income 
  641 
 837 
 630 
 373 
 91 
 (117)
 2,455 
Noninterest expense:      Salaries, wages and incentives
   203 
 454 
 149 
 138 
 534 
 - 
 1,478 
    Employee benefits 
  37 
 127 
 34 
 26 
 106 
 - 
 330 
    Net occupancy expense 
  20 
 184 
 8 
 11 
 82 
 - 
 305 
    Technology and communications 
  11 
 5 
 1 
 1 
 170 
 - 
 188 
    Card and processing expense 
  5 
 114 
 - 
 - 
 1 
 - 
 120 
    Equipment expense 
  2 
 51 
 1 
 1 
 58 
 - 
 113 
    Other noninterest expense 
 795 
640 
433 
244 
 (771)
 (117)
 1,224 
Total noninterest expense 
  1,073 
 1,575 
 626 
 421 
 180 
 (117)
 3,758 
Income before income taxes  
  435 
 292 
 86 
 38 
 980 
 - 
 1,831 
Applicable income tax (benefit) expense  
  (6)
 102 
 30 
 14 
 393 
 - 
 533 
Net income 
  441 
 190 
 56 
 24 
 587 
 - 
 1,298 
Less: Net income attributab
le to noncontrolling interest 
  - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 1 
 - 
 1 
Net income attributable to Bancorp 
  441 
 190 
 56 
 24 
 586 
 - 
 1,297 
Dividends on preferred stock  
  - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 203 
 - 
 203 
Net income available to common shareholders  
$ 441 
 190 
 56 
 24 
 383 
 - 
 1,094 
Total goodwill 
$ 613 
 1,656 
 - 
 148 
 - 
 - 
 2,417 
Total assets 
$ 45,864 
 46,703 
 24,325 
 7,670 
 (7,595)
 - 
 116,967 
(a) Revenue sharing agreements between Investment Advisors and Branch
 Banking are eliminated in the Consolidated Statements of Inco
me.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  161  Fifth Third Bancorp 
               General
     Commercial
 Branch  
Consumer 
Investment  
Corporate 
  2010 ($ in millions)
  Banking
 Banking 
Lending 
Advisors and Other 
Eliminations
Total Net interest income 
$ 1,531 
 1,514 
 405 
 138 
 16 
 - 3,604 
Provision for loan and lease losses 
  1,159 
 555 
 569 
 44 
 (789)
 - 1,538 
Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan  
     and lease losses
   372 
 959 
 (164)
 94 
 805 
 - 2,066 
Noninterest income:      Mortgage banking net revenue
   - 
 27 
 619 
 2 
 (1)
 - 647 
    Service charges on deposits 
  199 
 369 
 1 
 6 
 (1)
 - 574 
    Corporate banking revenue 
  346 
 15 
 - 
 3 
 - 
 - 364 
    Investment advisory revenue 
  15 
 106 
 - 
 346 
 - 
 (106)
(a) 361 
    Card and processing revenue 
  33 
 298 
 - 
 1 
 (16)
 - 316 
    Other noninterest income 
  42 
 70 
 36 
 (2)
 260 
 - 406 
    Securities gains, net 
  - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 47 
 - 47 
    Securities gains, net - non-qualifying hedges on  
         mortgage servicing rights
   - 
 - 
 14 
 - 
 - 
 - 14 
Total noninterest income 
  635 
 885 
 670 
 356 
 289 
 (106)
 2,729 
Noninterest expense:      Salaries, wages and incentives
   182 
 439 
 163 
 131 
 515 
 - 1,430 
    Employee benefits 
  32 
 121 
 31 
 25 
 105 
 - 314 
    Net occupancy expense 
  16 
 174 
 7 
 9 
 92 
 - 298 
    Technology and communications 
  14 
 16 
 2 
 2 
 155 
 - 189 
    Card and processing expense 
  2 
 105 
 - 
 - 
 1 
 - 108 
    Equipment expense 
  2 
 49 
 1 
 1 
 69 
 - 122 
    Other noninterest expense 
  723 
 652 
 342 
 237 
 (454)
 (106)
 1,394 
Total noninterest expense 
  971 
 1,556 
 546 
 405 
 483 
 (106)
 3,855 
Income (loss) before income taxes  
  36 
 288 
 (40)
 45 
 611 
 - 940 
Applicable income tax expense (benefit)  
  (142)
 103 
 (14)
 16 
 224 
 - 187 
Net income (loss) 
  178 
 185 
 (26)
 29 
 387 
 - 753 
Less: Net income attributab
le to noncontrolling interest 
  - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 - - 
Net income (loss) attributable to Bancorp 
  178 
 185 
 (26)
 29 
 387 
 - 753 
Dividends on preferred stock  
  - 
 - 
 - 
 - 
 250 
 - 250 
Net income available to common shareholders  
$ 178 
 185 
 (26)
 29 
 137 
 - 503 
Total goodwill 
$ 613 
 1,656 
 - 
 148 
 - 
 - 2,417 
Total assets 
$ 43,609 
 46,244 
 22,604 
 6,759 
 (8,209)
 - 111,007 
(a) Revenue sharing agreements between Investment Advisors and Branch
 Banking are eliminated in the Consolidated Statements of Inco
me. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  
  162  Fifth Third Bancorp 
30. SUBSEQUENT EVENT 
On January 28, 2013, the Bancorp en
tered into an accelerated share 
repurchase transaction with a coun
terparty pursuant to which the 
Bancorp will purchase approximatel
y $125 million of its outstanding 
common stock. The Bancorp is repurchasing the shares of its 

common stock as part of its previously announced 100 million share 

repurchase program. This repurc
hase transaction concludes the 
$600 million of common share repurchases not objected to by the 

FRB in the 2012 CCAR process. As part of this transaction, the 

Bancorp entered into a forward contract in which the final number 

of shares to be delivered at settlement of the accelerated share 
repurchase transaction will be ba
sed generally on a discount to the 
average daily volume-weighted average price of the Bancorp's 

common stock during the term of the Repurchase Agreement. The 

accelerated share repurchase will
 be treated as two separate 
transactions (i) the acquisition of 
treasury shares on the acquisition 
date and (ii) a forward contract indexed to the Bancorp's stock.   
` 163  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 UNITED STATES
 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 Washington, D.C. 20549
 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 
15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
 EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012
 Commission file number 001-33653
  Incorporated in the State of Ohio 
 I.R.S. Employer Identification No. 31-0854434 
 Address: 38 Fountain Square 
 Plaza Cincinnati, Ohio 45263 
 Telephone: (800) 972-3030  
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
      
Title of each class:   Name of each exchange 
on which registered: 
Common Stock, Without Par Value   
The NASDAQ Stock Market 
LLC 
8.5% Non-Cumulative Series G 
Convertible Perpetual Preferred 
Stock   
The NASDAQ Stock Market 
LLC 
Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned 
issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  
Yes:  No:  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file 
reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes: 
 No:   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all 
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months 

(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file 

such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements 

for the past 90 days. Yes: 
 No: 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted 
electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every 

Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant 

to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (§232.405 of this chapter) during 

the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 

registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes: 
 No:   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant 
to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§229.405 of this chapter) is not 

contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of 
registrant™s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information 
statements incorporated by referen
ce in Part III of this Form 10-K 
or any amendment to this Form 10-K. 
   
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large 

accelerated filer, an accelerated file
r, a non-accelerated filer, or a 
smaller reporting company. See definitions of ﬁlarge accelerated 

filer,ﬂ ﬁaccelerated filerﬂ and ﬁsmaller reporting companyﬂ in 

Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.  
Large accelerated filer 
 Accelerated filer 
 Non-accelerated 
filer  (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) Smaller 
reporting company 
   
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company 

(as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act). Yes:  No:   There were 875,281,580 shares of the Bancorp™s Common Stock, 
without par value, outstanding as of January 31, 2013. The 
Aggregate Market Value of the Voting Stock held by non-

affiliates of the Bancorp was $12,248,353,562 as of June 30, 
2012.  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
 This report incorporates into a single document the requirements 
of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) with 

respect to annual reports on Form 10-K and annual reports to 

shareholders. The Bancorp™s Proxy Statement for the 2013 

Annual Meeting of Shareholders is incorporated by reference into 

Part III of this report.  
Only those sections of this 2012 Annual Report to Shareholders 
that are specified in this Cross Reference Index constitute part of 

the Registrant™s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 

2012. No other information contained in this 2012 Annual Report 

to Shareholders shall be deemed to constitute any part of this 

Form 10-K nor shall any such information be incorporated into 

the Form 10-K and shall not be deemed ﬁfiledﬂ as part of the 

Registrant™s Form 10-K.  
10-K Cross Reference Index 
 PART I
  Item 1.
 Business   16-19, 164-169  
  Employees   40  
  Segment Information   42-48, 158-161 

  Average Balance Sheets   36  

  Analysis of Net Interest Income and Net Interest 
Income Changes   35-48  
  Investment Securities Portfolio   52-53, 96-97  

  Loan and Lease Portfolio   51-52, 98-99  

  Risk Elements of Loan and Lease Portfolio   57-72  
  Deposits   53-54  
  Return on Equity and Assets   15  

  Short-term Borrowings   54-55, 121  
Item 1A.
 Risk Factors   26-34  
Item 1B.
 Unresolved Staff Comments   None  
Item 2.
 Properties   170  
Item 3.
 Legal Proceedings   129-130  
Item 4.
 Mine Safety Disclosures     N/A  
  Executive Officers of the Bancorp   170  
PART II
  Item 5.
  Market for Registrant™s Common Equity, Related 
Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity 
Securities   171  
Item 6.
 Selected Financial Data   15  
Item 7.
  Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations   15-80  
Item 7A.
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market 
Risk   72-75  
Item 8.
 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   83-162  
Item 9.
  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on 
Accounting and Financial Disclosure   None  
Item 9A.
 Controls and Procedures   81  
Item 9B.
 Other Information   None  
PART III
  Item 10.
 Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate 
Governance   173  
Item 11.
 Executive Compensation   173  
Item 12.
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and 
Management and Related Stockholder Matters   140-143, 173  
Item 13.
 Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and 
Director Independence   173  
Item 14.
 Principal Accounting Fees and Services   173  
PART IV
  Item 15.
 Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules   173-176  
SIGNATURES
  177  
  164  Fifth Third Bancorp 
AVAILABILITY OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION 
 Fifth Third Bancorp (the ﬁBancorpﬂ) files reports with the SEC. 
Those reports include the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly 

reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and proxy 

statements, as well as any amendments to those reports. The 

public may read and copy any materials the Bancorp files with the 

SEC at the SEC™s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street, 

NW, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information 
on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the 
SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that 

contains reports, proxy and information statements and other 

information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC 

at www.sec.gov. The Bancorp™s 
annual report on Form 10-K, 
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, 

proxy statements, and amendments to those reports filed or 

furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act 

are accessible at no cost on the Bancorp™s web site at 

www.53.com on a same day basis after they are electronically 

filed with or furnished to the SEC.  
  
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
  PART I 
 ITEM 1.
BUSINESS 
General Information 
 The Bancorp, an Ohio corporation organized in 1975, is a bank 
holding company as defined by the Bank Holding Company Act 

of 1956, as amended (the ﬁBHCAﬂ), and is registered as such 

with the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the 

ﬁFRBﬂ). The Bancorp™s principal office is located in Cincinnati, 

Ohio.  The Bancorp™s subsidiaries provide a wide range of financial 
products and services to the retail, commercial, financial, 

governmental, educational and medical sectors, including a wide 

variety of checking, savings and money market accounts, and 

credit products such as credit cards, installment loans, mortgage 
loans and leases. Fifth Third Bank has deposit insurance provided 
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the ﬁFDICﬂ) 

through the Deposit Insurance Fund. Refer to Exhibit 21 filed as 

an attachment to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a list of 

subsidiaries of the Bancorp as of December 31, 2012.  
The Bancorp derives the majority of its revenues from the 
U.S. Revenue from foreign countries and external customers 

domiciled in foreign countries is immaterial to the Bancorp™s 

Consolidated Financial Statements.  
Additional information regarding the Bancorp™s businesses is 
included in Management™s Discussion and Analysis of Financial 

Condition and Results of Operations.  
Competition  The Bancorp competes for deposits, loans and other banking 
services in its principal geographic markets as well as in selected 
national markets as opportunities arise. In addition to the 
challenge of attracting and retaining customers for traditional 

banking services, the Bancorp™s competitors include securities 

dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers, investment advisors and 

insurance companies. These competitors, with focused products 

targeted at highly profitable customer segments, compete across 

geographic boundaries and provide customers increasing access 

to meaningful alternatives to banking services in nearly all 

significant products. The increasingly competitive environment is 

a result primarily of changes in regulation, changes in technology, 

product delivery systems and the accelerating pace of 

consolidation among financial service providers. These 

competitive trends are likely to continue.  
Acquisitions 
 The Bancorp™s strategy for growth includes strengthening its 
presence in core markets, expanding into contiguous markets and 

broadening its product offerings while taking into account the 

integration and other risks of growth. The Bancorp evaluates 

strategic acquisition opportunities and conducts due diligence 

activities in connection with possi
ble transactions. As a result, 
discussions, and in some cases, negotiations may take place and 

future acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity securities may 

occur. These typically involve the payment of a premium over 

book value and current market price, and therefore, some dilution 

of book value and net income per share may occur with any 

future transactions.  
Regulation and Supervision 
 In addition to the generally applicable state and federal laws 
governing businesses and employers, the Bancorp and its banking 
subsidiary are subject to extensive regulation by federal and state 
laws and regulations applicable to financial institutions and their 

parent companies. Virtually all aspects of the business of the 

Bancorp and its banking subsidiary are subject to specific 

requirements or restrictions and general regulatory oversight. The 

principal objectives of state and federal banking laws and 
` 165  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 regulations and the supervision, regulation and examination of 
banks and their parent companies (such as the Bancorp) by bank 

regulatory agencies are the maintenance of the safety and 

soundness of financial institutions, maintenance of the federal 

deposit insurance system and the protection of consumers or 

classes of consumers, rather than the specific protection of 

shareholders of a bank or the parent company of a bank. To the 
extent the following material describes statutory or regulatory 
provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the 

particular statute or regulation.  

 
Regulators  
The Bancorp and/or its banking subsidiary are subject to 

regulation and supervision primarily by the FRB, the Consumer 

Financial Protection Bureau (the ﬁCFPBﬂ) and the Ohio Division 

of Financial Institutions (the ﬁDivisionﬂ) and additionally by 

certain other functional regulators and self-regulatory 

organizations.   The Bancorp is also subject to regulation by the 

SEC by virtue of its status as a public company and due to the 

nature of some of its businesses.  The Bancorp™s banking 

subsidiary is subject to regulation by the FDIC, which insures the 

bank™s deposits as permitted by law.   
The federal and state laws and regulations that are applicable 
to banks and to some extent bank holding companies regulate, 

among other matters, the scope of their business, their activities, 

their investments, their reserves against deposits, the timing of the 

availability of deposited funds, the amount of loans to individual 

and related borrowers and the nature, amount of and collateral for 

certain loans, and the amount of interest that may be charged on 

loans. Various federal and state consumer laws and regulations 

also affect the services provided to consumers.  
The Bancorp and/or its subsidiary are required to file various 
reports with, and are subject to examination by regulators, 

including the FRB and the Division. The FRB, Division and the 

CFPB have the authority to issue orders to bank holding 

companies and/or banks to cease and desist from certain banking 

practices and violations of conditions imposed by, or violations of 
agreements with, the FRB, Division and CFPB. Certain of the 
Bancorp™s and/or its banking subsidiary regulators are also 

empowered to assess civil money penalties against companies or 

individuals in certain situations, such as when there is a violation 

of a law or regulation. Applicable state and federal law also grant 

certain regulators the authority to impose additional requirements 

and restrictions on the activities of the Bancorp and or its banking 

subsidiary and, in some situations, the imposition of such 

additional requirements and restrictions will not be publicly 

available information.  

 
Acquisitions 

The BHCA requires the prior approval of the FRB for a bank 

holding company to acquire substantially all the assets of a bank 

or to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of more than 
5% of any class of the voting shares of any bank, bank holding 
company or savings association, or to increase any such non-

majority ownership or control of any bank, bank holding 

company or savings association, or to merge or consolidate with 

any bank holding company.  
The BHCA prohibits a bank holding company from 
acquiring a direct or indirect interest in or control of more than 

5% of any class of the voting shar
es of a company that is not a 
bank or a bank holding company and from engaging directly or 

indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or 

controlling banks or furnishing services to its banking 
subsidiaries, except that it may engage in and may own shares of 
companies engaged in certain ac
tivities the FRB has determined 
to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling 

banks as to be proper incident thereto. 

 
Financial Holding Companies  

The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (ﬁGLBAﬂ) permits a 
qualifying bank holding company to become a financial holding 
company (ﬁFHCﬂ) and thereby to engage directly or indirectly in 

a broader range of activities than those permitted for a bank 

holding company under the BHCA. Permitted activities for a 

FHC include securities underwriting and dealing, insurance 

underwriting and brokerage, merchant banking and other 

activities that are declared by the FRB, in cooperation with the 

Treasury Department, to be ﬁfinancial in nature or incidental 

theretoﬂ or are declared by the FRB unilaterally to be 

ﬁcomplementaryﬂ to financial activities. In addition, a FHC is 

allowed to conduct permissible new financial activities or acquire 

permissible non-bank financial companies with after-the-fact 

notice to the FRB. A bank holding company may elect to become 

a FHC if each of its banking subsidiaries is well capitalized, is 

well managed and has at least a ﬁSatisfactoryﬂ rating under the 
Community Reinvestment Act (ﬁCRAﬂ). Dodd-Frank also 
extended the well capitalized and well managed requirement to 

the bank holding company. In 2000, the Bancorp elected and 

qualified for FHC status under the GLBA. To maintain FHC 

status, a holding company must continue to meet certain 

requirements. The failure to meet such requirements could result 

in restrictions on the activities of
 the FHC or loss of FHC status. 
If restrictions are imposed on the activities of an FHC, such 

information may not necessarily be available to the public.  

 
Dividends 

The Bancorp depends in part upon dividends received from its 

direct and indirect subsidiaries, including its indirect banking 

subsidiary, to fund its activities, including the payment of 

dividends. The Bancorp and its banking subsidiary are subject to 
various federal and state restrictions on their ability to pay 
dividends. The FRB has authority to prohibit bank holding 

companies from paying dividends if such payment is deemed to 

be an unsafe or unsound practice. The FRB has indicated 

generally that it may be an unsafe or unsound practice for bank 

holding companies to pay dividends unless a bank holding 

company™s net income is sufficient to fund the dividends and the 

expected rate of earnings retention is consistent with the 

organization™s capital needs, asset quality and overall financial 

condition. The ability to pay dividends may be further limited by 

provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act and implanting regulations (see 

the ﬁRegulatory Reformﬂ section).   

 
Source of Strength 

Under long-standing FRB policy and now as codified in the 
Dodd-Frank Act, a bank holding company is expected to act as a 
source of financial and managerial strength to each of its banking 

subsidiaries and to commit resources to their support.  This 

support may be required at times when the bank holding company 

may not have the resources to provide it.   
 FDIC Assessments  

As contemplated by the Dodd-Frank Act the FDIC has revised the 

framework by which insured depository institutions with more 

than $10 billion in assets (ﬁlarg
e IDIsﬂ) are assessed for purposes 
of payments to the Deposit Insurance Fund (the ﬁDIFﬂ). The final 
  166  Fifth Third Bancorp 
rule implementing revisions to the assessment system was 
released on February 7, 2011, and took effect for the quarter 

beginning April 1, 2011.  
Prior to the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, a large IDI™s 
DIF premiums principally were based on the size of an IDI™s 

domestic deposit base. The Dodd-Frank Act changed the 

assessment base from a large IDI™s 
domestic deposit base to its 
total assets less tangible equity. In addition to potentially greatly 
increasing the size of a large IDI™s
 assessment base, the expansion 
of the assessment base affords the FDIC much greater flexibility 

to vary its assessment system based upon the different asset 

classes that large IDIs normally hold on their balance sheets.  
To implement this provision, the FDIC created an 
assessment scheme vastly different from the deposit-based 

system. Under the new system, large IDIs are assessed under a 

complex ﬁscorecardﬂ methodology that seeks to capture both the 

probability that an individual large IDI will fail and the 

magnitude of the impact on the DIF if such a failure occurs.  

 
Transactions with Affiliates 

Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, restrict 

transactions between a bank and its affiliates (as defined in 

Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act), including a 
parent bank holding company. The Bancorp™s banking subsidiary 
is subject to certain restrictions, including but not limited to 

restrictions on loans to its affiliates, on investments in the stock or 

securities thereof, on the taking of such stock or securities as 

collateral for loans to any borro
wer, and on the issuance of a 
guarantee or letter of credit on their behalf. Among other things, 

these restrictions limit the amount of such transactions, require 

collateral in prescribed amounts for extensions of credit, prohibit 

the purchase of low quality assets and require that the terms of 

such transactions be substantially equivalent to terms of 

comparable transactions with non-affiliates. Generally, the 

Bancorp™s banking subsidiary is limited in its extension of credit 

to any affiliate to 10% of the banking subsidiary™s capital stock 

and surplus and its extension of credit to all affiliates to 20% of 
the banking subsidiary™s capital stock and surplus.  
 
Community Reinvestment Act
  The CRA generally requires insured depository institutions to 

identify the communities they serve and to make loans and 

investments and provide services that meet the credit needs of 

those communities. Furthermore, the CRA requires the FRB to 

evaluate the performance of the Bancorp™s banking subsidiary in 

helping to meet the credit needs of its communities. As a part of 

the CRA program, the banking subsidiary is subject to periodic 

examinations by the FRB, and must maintain comprehensive 

records of their CRA activities for this purpose. During these 

examinations, the FRB rates such institutions™ compliance with 

the CRA as ﬁOutstanding,ﬂ ﬁSatisfactory,ﬂ ﬁNeeds to Improveﬂ or 

ﬁSubstantial Noncompliance.ﬂ Failure of an institution to receive 
at least a ﬁSatisfactoryﬂ rating could inhibit such institution or its 
holding company from undertaking certain activities, including 

engaging in activities permitted as a financial holding company 

under the GLBA and acquiring other financial institutions. The 

FRB must take into account the record of performance of banks in 

meeting the credit needs of the entire community served, 

including low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. Fifth Third 

Bank received a ﬁSatisfactoryﬂ CRA rating in its most recent 

CRA examination.  

Capital  
The FRB has established capital guidelines for bank holding 

companies and FHCs. The FRB, the Division and the FDIC have 

also issued regulations establishing capital requirements for 
banks. Failure to meet capital requirements could subject the 
Bancorp and its banking subsidiary to a variety of restrictions and 

enforcement actions. In addition, as discussed previously, the 

Bancorp and its banking subsidiary must remain well capitalized 

and well managed for the Bancorp to retain its status as a FHC. 

See the ﬁRegulatory Reformﬂ section for additional information 

on capital requirements impacting the Bancorp. 

 Privacy  The FRB, FDIC and other bank regulatory agencies have adopted 

final guidelines (the ﬁGuidelines) for safeguarding confidential, 

personal customer information. The Guidelines require each 

financial institution, under the supervision and ongoing oversight 

of its Board of Directors or an 
appropriate committee thereof, to 
create, implement and maintain a comprehensive written 

information security program designed to ensure the security and 

confidentiality of customer information, protect against any 

anticipated threats or hazards to the security or integrity of such 

information and protect against unauthorized access to or use of 

such information that could result in substantial harm or 

inconvenience to any customer. The Bancorp has adopted a 

customer information security program that has been approved by 

the Bancorp™s Board of Directors (the ﬁBoard).  
The GLBA requires financial institutions to implement 
policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of nonpublic 

personal information about consumers to non-affiliated third 

parties. In general, the statute requires explanations to consumers 

on policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of such 

nonpublic personal information, and, except as otherwise required 

by law, prohibits disclosing such information except as provided 

in the banking subsidiary™s policies and procedures. The 

Bancorp™s banking subsidiary has implemented a privacy policy.  

 
Anti-Money Laundering 

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing 

Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism 

Act of 2001 (the ﬁPatriot Actﬂ), designed to deny terrorists and 
others the ability to obtain access to the United States financial 
system, has significant implications for depository institutions, 

brokers, dealers and other businesses involved in the transfer of 

money. The Patriot Act, as implemented by various federal 

regulatory agencies, requires financial institutions, including the 

Bancorp and its subsidiaries, to implement new policies and 

procedures or amend existing policies and procedures with 

respect to, among other matters, anti-money laundering, 

compliance, suspicious activity and currency transaction reporting 

and due diligence on customers. The Patriot Act and its 

underlying regulations also permit information sharing for 

counter-terrorist purposes between federal law enforcement 

agencies and financial institutions, as well as among financial 

institutions, subject to certain conditions, and require the FRB 

(and other federal banking agencies) to evaluate the effectiveness 
of an applicant in combating money laundering activities when 
considering applications filed under Section 3 of the BHCA or the 

Bank Merger Act. The Bancorp™s Board has approved policies 

and procedures that are believed to be compliant with the Patriot 

Act.  
 
 
Exempt Brokerage Activities 

The GLBA amended the federal securities laws to eliminate the 

blanket exceptions that banks traditionally have had from the 

definition of ﬁbrokerﬂ and ﬁdealer.ﬂ The GLBA also required that 

there be certain transactiona
l activities that would not be 
ﬁbrokerageﬂ activities, which banks could effect without having 
` 167  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 to register as a broker. In September 2007, the FRB and SEC 
approved Regulation R to govern bank securities activities. 

Various exemptions permit banks to conduct activities that would 

otherwise constitute brokerage activ
ities under the securities laws. 
Those exemptions include conducting brokerage activities related 

to trust, fiduciary and similar se
rvices, certain services and also 
conducting a de minimis number of riskless principal 
transactions, certain asset-backed transactions and certain 
securities lending transactions. The Bancorp only conducts non-

exempt brokerage activities through its affiliated registered 

broker-dealer.   Regulatory Reform 
 On July 21, 2010, President Obama signed into law the Dodd-
Frank Act, which is aimed, in part, at accountability and 

transparency in the financial system and includes numerous 

provisions that apply to and/or could impact the Bancorp and its 

banking subsidiary. The Dodd-Frank Act implements changes 

that, among other things, affect the oversight and supervision of 

financial institutions, provide for a new resolution procedure for 

large financial companies, create a new agency responsible for 

implementing and enforcing compliance with consumer financial 
laws, introduce more stringent regulatory capital requirements, 
effect significant changes in the regulation of over-the-counter 

derivatives, reform the regulation of credit rating agencies, 

implement changes to corporate governance and executive 

compensation practices, incorporate requirements on proprietary 

trading and investing in certain funds by financial institutions 

(known as the ﬁVolcker Ruleﬂ), require registration of advisers to 

certain private funds, and effect significant changes in the 

securitization market.  In order to fully implement many 

provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act, various government agencies, 

in particular banking and other financial services agencies are 

required to promulgate regulations. Set forth below is a 

discussion of some of the major sections the Dodd-Frank Act and 

implementing regulations that have or could have a substantial 

impact on the Bancorp and its banking subsidiary. Due to the 
volume of regulations required by the Dodd-Frank Act, not all 
proposed or final regulations that may have an impact on the 

Bancorp or its banking subsidiary are necessarily discussed.  

 
Financial Stability Oversight Council  

The Dodd-Frank Act creates the Financial Stability Oversight 

Council (ﬁFSOCﬂ), which is chaired by the Secretary of the 

Treasury and composed of expertise from various financial 

services regulators. The FSOC has 
responsibility for identifying 
risks and responding to emerging threats to financial stability. On 

March 15, 2012, the Department of Treasury issued a final rule to 

establish an assessment schedule for the collection of fees from 

bank holding companies with at least $50 billion in assets and 

foreign banks with at least $50 billion in assets in the U.S. to 

cover the expenses of the Office of Financial Research and 
FSOC. The fees would also cover certain expenses incurred by 
the FDIC. The initial assessment period commenced July 21, 

2012 and ends March 31, 2013. The Bancorp paid approximately 

$1 million for the initial assessment period. The next scheduled 

assessment is set to occur on September 16, 2013.  

 
Executive Compensation 
 The Dodd-Frank Act provides for a say on pay for shareholders of 

all public companies. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, each company 

must give its shareholders the opportunity to vote on the 

compensation of its executives at least once every three years. 
The Dodd-Frank Act also adds disclosure and voting 
requirements for golden parachute compensation that is payable 

to named executive officers in connection with sale transactions.  
Pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, in June 2012, the SEC 
adopted a final rule directing the stock exchanges to prohibit 

listing classes of equity securities if a company™s compensation 

committee members are not independent. The rule also provides 
that a company™s compensation committee may only select a 
compensation consultant, legal counsel or other advisor after 

taking into consideration factors to be identified by the SEC that 

affect the independence of a compensation consultant, legal 

counsel or other advisor.  The SEC is required under the Dodd-Frank Act to issue rules 
obligating companies to disclose in proxy materials for annual 

meetings of shareholders information that shows the relationship 

between executive compensation actually paid to their named 

executive officers and their financial performance, taking into 

account any change in the value of the shares of a company™s 

stock and dividends or distributions.  
The Dodd-Frank Act provides that the SEC must issue rules 
directing the stock exchanges to prohibit listing any security of a 

company unless the company develops and implements a policy 
providing for disclosure of the policy of the company on 
incentive-based compensation that is based on financial 

information required to be reported under the securities laws and 

that, in the event the company is required to prepare an 

accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the 

company with any financial reporting requirement under the 

securities laws, the company will recover from any current or 

former executive officer of the company who received incentive-

based compensation during the three-year period preceding the 

date on which the company is required to prepare the restatement 

based on the erroneous data, any exceptional compensation above 

what would have been paid under the restatement.  
The Dodd-Frank Act requires the SEC to adopt a rule to 
require that each company disclose in the proxy materials for its 

annual meetings whether an employee or board member is 
permitted to purchase financial instruments designed to hedge or 
offset decreases in the market value of equity securities granted as 

compensation or otherwise held by the employee or board 

member.  
Corporate Governance 
 The Dodd-Frank Act clarifies that the SEC may, but is not 
required to promulgate rules that would require that a company™s 

proxy materials include a nominee for the board of directors 

submitted by a shareholder. Although the SEC promulgated rules 

to accomplish this, these rules were invalidated by a federal 

appeals court decision.  The SEC has said that they will not 

challenge the ruling, but has not ruled out the possibility that new 

rules could be proposed. 
The Dodd-Frank Act requires stock exchanges to have rules 
prohibiting their members from voting securities that they do not 

beneficially own (unless they have received voting instructions 

from the beneficial owner) with respect to the election of a 
member of the board of directors (other than an uncontested 
election of directors of an investment company registered under 

the Investment Company Act of 1940), executive compensation 

or any other significant matter, as determined by the SEC by rule.  

 
Credit Ratings  

The Dodd-Frank Act includes a number of provisions that are 

targeted at improving the reliability of credit ratings. The SEC has 

been charged with adopting various rules in this regard.  
  168  Fifth Third Bancorp 
Consumer Issues 
 The Dodd-Frank Act created a new bureau, the CFPB, which has 
the authority to implement regulations pursuant to numerous 

consumer protection laws and has supervisory authority, 

including the power to conduct examination and take enforcement 

actions, with respect to depository institutions with more than $10 

billion in consolidated assets. The CFPB also has authority, with 

respect to consumer financial services to, among other things, 
restrict unfair, deceptive or abusive acts or practices, enforce laws 
that prohibit discrimination and unfair treatment and to require 

certain consumer disclosures.  

 
Debit Card Interchange Fees 
 The Dodd-Frank Act provides for a set of new rules requiring that 

interchange transaction fees for electric debit transactions be 

ﬁreasonableﬂ and proportional to certain costs associated with 

processing the transactions. The FRB was given authority to, 

among other things, establish standards for assessing whether 

interchange fees are reasonable and proportional. In June 2011, 

the FRB issued a final rule establishing certain standards and 

prohibitions pursuant to the Dodd-Frank Act, including 

establishing standards for debit card interchange fees and 

allowing for an upward adjustment if the issuer develops and 
implements policies and procedures reasonably designed to 
prevent fraud.  The provisions regarding debit card interchange 

fees and the fraud adjustment became effective October 1, 2011.   

The rules impose requirements on the Bancorp and its banking 

subsidiary and may negatively impact our revenues and results of 

operations. 

 FDIC Matters and Resolution Planning
 The Dodd-Frank Act creates an orderly liquidation process that 
the FDIC can employ for failing financial companies that are not 

insured depository institutions. The Dodd-Frank Act gives the 

FDIC new authority to create a widely available emergency 

financial stabilization program to guarantee the obligations of 

solvent depository institutions and their holding companies and 

affiliates during times of severe economic stress. Additionally, 

the Dodd-Frank Act also codifies many of the temporary changes 

that had already been implemented, such as permanently 
increasing the amount of deposit insurance to $250,000.  
In September 2011, the FDIC approved an interim final rule 
that requires an insured depository institution with $50 billion or 

more in total assets to submit periodic contingency plans to the 

FDIC for resolution in the event of the institution™s failure.  The 

rule became effective in January 2012, however, submission of 

plans will be staggered over a period of time.  The Bancorp™s 

banking subsidiary is subject to this rule.  
In October 2011, the FRB issued a final rule implementing 
resolution planning requirements in the Dodd-Frank Act.  The 

final rule requires bank holding companies with assets of $50 

billion or more and nonbank financial firms designated by FSOC 

for supervision by the FRB to annually submit resolution plans to 

the FDIC and FRB.  Each plan shall describe the company™s 

strategy for rapid and orderly resolution in bankruptcy during 
times of financial distress.   Under the final rule, companies will 
submit their initial resolution plans on a staggered basis.  The 

Bancorp will be required to submit a resolution plan pursuant to 

this rule.  
 
Proprietary Trading and Investing in Certain Funds 

The Dodd-Frank Act sets forth new restrictions on banking 

organizations™ ability to engage in proprietary trading and 

sponsorship of or investment in private equity and hedge funds 

(the ﬁVolcker Ruleﬂ). The scope of the new restrictions will be 
more clear upon adoption of final regulations promulgated under 
the Volcker rule, however the Volcker Rule also generally 

prohibits any banking entity from sponsoring or acquiring any 

ownership interest in a private equity or hedge fund.  The Volcker 

rule, however, contains a number of exceptions, which exceptions 

will be clarified upon promulgation of final rules adopted on an 

interagency basis.  The Volcker rule permits transactions in the 

securities of the U.S. government and its agencies, certain 
government-sponsored enterprises and states and their political 
subdivisions, as well as certain investments in small business 

investment companies.  Transactions on behalf of customers and 

in connection with certain underwriting and market making 

activities, as well as risk-mitiga
ting hedging activities and certain 
foreign banking activities are also permitted.  
De minimus
 ownership of private equity or hedge funds will also be permitted 

under final regulations as well.  In addition to the general 

prohibition on sponsorship and investment, the Volcker rule 

contains additional requirements applicable to any private equity 

or hedge fund that is sponsored by the banking entity or for which 

it serves as investment manager or investment advisor.  The 

Bancorp will be required to demonstrate that it has a satisfactory 

compliance program specifically to monitor compliance with the 

Volcker rule. Under the final rule to implement the conformance 
period, the Bancorp will have until July 21, 2014, to fully 
conform its activities and investments.  The rule also grants the 

FRB the authority to grant up to three one-year extension periods 

for any illiquid funds.
  
Derivatives  

The Dodd-Frank Act includes measures to broaden the scope of 

derivative instruments subject to regulation by requiring clearing 

and exchange trading of certain derivatives, imposing new capital 

and margin requirements for certa
in market participants and 
imposing position limits on certain over-the-counter derivatives.  

To the extent that the Bancorp acts in certain capacities in trading 

derivatives or trades a certain amount of certain derivatives 

instruments, then certain affiliates of the Bancorp may be 
required to register with the Commodity Futures Trading 
Commission or the SEC.  As with the Volcker Rule, the Bancorp 

will be required to demonstrate that it has a satisfactory 

compliance program to monitor the activities of any swap dealer 

or major swap participant registered under the new regulations. 

Although final rules defining certain key terms were adopted in 

June, 2012, the ultimate impact of these derivatives regulations, 

and the time it will take to comply, continues to remain uncertain. 

The final regulations will impose additional operational and 

compliance costs on us and may require us to restructure certain 

businesses and negatively impact our revenues and results of 

operations. 
Interstate Bank Branching 
 The Dodd-Frank Act includes provisions permitting national and 
insured state banks to engage in 
de novo
 interstate branching if, 
under the laws of the state where the new branch is to be 

established, a state bank chartered in that state would be permitted 

to establish a branch.  
Systemically Significant Companies and Capital
 The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new regulatory regime for entities 

that are deemed to be ﬁsystemically significant financial 

companies.ﬂ The Dodd-Frank Act sets a $50 billion consolidated 

asset floor for a bank holding company to be subject to the 

heightened oversight and regulation, although the FRB can adjust 

those amounts upward for some of the heightened standards under 

certain circumstances. Dodd-Frank establishes a broad framework 

for identifying, applying heightened supervision and regulation 
` 169  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 to, and (as necessary) limiting the size and activities of 
systemically significant financial companies.  
The Dodd-Frank Act instructs the FRB to impose enhanced 
capital and risk-management standards on large financial firms 

and mandates the FRB to conduct annual stress tests on all bank 

holding companies with $50 billion or more in assets to determine 

whether they have the capital needed to absorb losses in baseline, 
adverse, and severely adverse economic conditions.  In November 
2011, the FRB adopted final rules requiring bank holding 

companies with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets to 

submit capital plans to the FRB on an annual basis.  Under the 

final rules, the FRB annually will evaluate an institutions capital 

adequacy, internal capital adequacy, assessment processes and 

plans to make capital distributions such as dividend payments and 

stock repurchases.   
In November 2012, the FRB provided instructions on the 
2013 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (ﬁCCARﬂ). 

The 2013 CCAR required bank holding companies with 

consolidated assets of $50 billion or more to submit a capital plan 

to the FRB by January 7, 2013. The mandatory elements of the 

capital plan are an assessment of the expected use and sources of 

capital over the planning horizon, a description of all planned 
capital actions over the planning horizon, a discussion of any 
expected changes to the Bancorp™s business plan that are likely to 

have a material impact on its capital adequacy or liquidity, a 

detailed description of the Bancorp™s process for assessing capital 

adequacy and the Bancorp™s capital policy. 
 In December 2011, the FRB issued proposed rules to 
strengthen regulation and supervision of large bank holding 

companies and systemically important nonbank financial firms.  

The proposed rules would generally apply to all U.S. bank 

holding companies with consolidated assets of $50 billion or 

more, such as the Bancorp, and any nonbank financial firms that 

may be designated by the FSOC as systemically important 

companies.  The proposal, which is mandated by the Dodd-Frank 

Act, includes a wide range of measures addressing such issues as 

capital, liquidity, credit exposure, stress testing, risk management 
and early remediation requirements.  In particular, the proposal 
includes proposed risk-based capital and leverage requirements 

that would be implemented in two phases, the first phase would 

be subject to the FRB™s capital plan rule issued in November 

2011.  The second phase would involve the FRB issuing a 

proposal to implement a risk-based capital surcharge based on the 

framework and methodology developed by the Basel Committee 

on Banking Supervision (the ﬁBasel Committeeﬂ), the current 

version referred to as ﬁBasel III.ﬂ    
Basel III is designed to materially improve the quality of 
regulatory capital and introduces a new minimum common equity 

requirement. Basel III also raises the numerical minimum capital 

requirements and introduces capital conservation and 

countercyclical buffers to induce banking organizations to hold 

capital in excess of regulatory minimums. In addition, Basel III 
establishes an international leverage standard for internationally 
active banks. The FRB is working with other U.S. banking 

regulators to implement the Basel 
III capital reforms in the United 
States.  On June 12, 2012, the federal banking agencies, including 

the FRB, issued a joint release announcing three separate notices 

of proposed rulemaking (ﬁNPRsﬂ) seeking comment on proposed 

rules that would revise and replace their current capital rules in a 

manner consistent both with relevant provisions of the Dodd-

Frank Act as well as the implementation of Basel III.  Also on 

June 12, 2012, these agencies announced the finalization of their 

market risk capital rule proposed in 2011. The NPRs indicated 
that the final rule would become effective on January 1, 2013, and 
the changes set forth in the final rules would be phased in from 

January 1, 2013 through January 1, 2019.  However, in November 

2012, the agencies announced that the effective date would be 

delayed. 
     170  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 
 The Bancorp™s executive offices and the main office of Fifth 
Third Bank are located on Fountain Square Plaza in downtown 

Cincinnati, Ohio in a 32-story office tower, a five-story office 

building with an attached parking garage and a separate ten-story 

office building known as the Fifth Third Center, the William S. 

Rowe Building and the 530 Building, respectively. The Bancorp™s 

main operations center is located in Cincinnati, Ohio, in a three-

story building with an attached parking garage known as the 

Madisonville Operations Center. The Bank owns 100% of these 

buildings.  At December 31, 2012, the Bancorp, through its banking and 
non-banking subsidiaries, operated 1,325 banking centers, of 
which 940 were owned, 267 were leased and 118 for which the 
buildings are owned but the land is leased. The banking centers 

are located in the states of Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, Michigan, 

Illinois, Florida, Tennessee, North Carolina, West Virginia, 

Pennsylvania, Missouri, and Georgia. The Bancorp™s significant 

owned properties are owned free from mortgages and major 

encumbrances.  
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE BANCORP 
 Officers are appointed annually by the Board of Directors at the 
meeting of Directors immediately following the Annual Meeting 

of Shareholders. The names, ages and positions of the Executive 

Officers of the Bancorp as of February 22, are listed below along 

with their business experience during the past 5 years:  

 
Kevin T. Kabat
, 56. Vice Charirman of the Bancorp since 
September 2012 and Chief Executive Officer of the Bancorp 
since April 2007. Previously, Mr. Kabat was President of the 

Bancorp from June 2006 to September 2012 and Chairman from 

June 2008 to June 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Kabat was Executive 

Vice President of the Bancorp since December 2003.  

 
Steven Alonso
, 52. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp 
since March 2012. Previously, Mr. Alonso was Executive Vice 

President of Fifth Third Bank since November 2008.  Prior to 

that, Mr. Alonso served as founder, chairman and CEO of 

OakStreet Mortgage, LLC. 
  Greg D. Carmichael
, 51. President of the Bancorp since 
September 2012 and Chief Operating Officer of the Bancorp 
since June 2006. Previously, Mr. Carmichael was the Executive 
Vice President and Chief Information Officer of the Bancorp 

since June 2003.  

 
Todd Clossin
, 51.  Executive Vice President and Chief 
Administrative Officer of the Bancorp since December 2011.  

Previously, Mr. Clossin was the President and CEO of Fifth Third 

Bank (Northeastern Ohio) since January 2005. 
 Mark D. Hazel
, 47. Senior Vice President and Controller of the 
Bancorp since February 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Hazel was the 

Assistant Bancorp Controller since 2006 and was the Controller 

of Nonbank entities since 2003.  

 
James R. Hubbard
, 54. Senior Vice President and Chief Legal 
Officer of the Bancorp since February 2010. Prior to that, 
Mr. Hubbard was the Senior Vice President and Director of Legal 

Services since June 2001.  

 
Gregory L. Kosch
, 53. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp 
since June 2005. Previously, Mr. Kosch was Senior Vice 

President and head of the Bancorp™s Commercial Division in the 

Chicago affiliate since June 2002.  
 Daniel T. Poston
, 54. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp 
since June 2003, and Chief Financial Officer of the Bancorp since 

September 2009. Previously, Mr. Poston was the Controller of the 

Bancorp from July 2007 to May 2008 and from November 2008 

to September 2009. Previously, Mr. Poston was the Chief 

Financial Officer of the Bancorp from May 2008 to November 

2008. Formerly, Mr. Poston was the Auditor of the Bancorp since 
October 2001 and was Senior Vice President of the Bancorp and 
Fifth Third Bank since January 2002.  
 Paul L. Reynolds
, 51. Executive Vice President, Secretary and 
Chief Risk Officer of the Bancorp since October 2011. 

Previously, Mr. Reynolds was Executive Vice President, 

Secretary and Chief Administrative Officer of the Bancorp since 

September 2009. Previously, Mr. Reynolds was Executive Vice 

President, Secretary and General Counsel since 2002. Prior to that 

he was Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant 

Secretary since 1999.  
 Joseph R. Robinson
, 44. Executive Vice President and Chief 
Information Officer and Director of Information Technology and 

Operations of the Bancorp since September 2009. Previously, 
Mr. Robinson was Executive Vice President and Chief 
Information Officer of the Bancorp since April 2008. Prior to 

that, he was Senior Vice President and Director of Central 

Operations since November 2006 and Senior Vice President of IT 

Enterprise Solutions since March 2004.  
 Robert A. Sullivan
, 58. Senior Executive Vice President of the 
Bancorp since December 2002.  
 Teresa J. Tanner
, 44. Executive Vice President and Chief 
Human Resources Officer of the Bancorp since February 2010. 

Previously, Ms. Tanner was Senior Vice President and Director of 

Enterprise Learning since September 2008. Prior to that, she was 

Human Resources Senior Vice President and Senior Business 
Partner for the Information Technology and Central Operations 
divisions since July 2006. Previously, she was Vice President and 

Senior Business Partner for Operations since September 2004.  
 Tayfun Tuzun
, 48.  Senior Vice President and Treasurer of the 
Bancorp since December of 2011.  Previously, Mr. Tuzun was the 

Assistant Treasurer and Balance Sheet Manager of Fifth Third 

Bancorp since 2007.  Previously, Mr. Tuzun was the Structured 

Finance Manager since 2007.   
` 171  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 PART II 
 ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT™S COMMON EQ
UITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER 
PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
 The Bancorp™s common stock is traded in the over-the-counter mark
et and is listed under the symbol ﬁFITBﬂ on the NASDAQ® Global
 Select Market System.  

 High and Low Stock Prices and Dividends Paid Per Share
  Dividends Paid
2012  High  Low
     Per Share
Fourth Quarter $16.16
$13.75
$0.10
Third Quarter 
$15.95
$13.07
$0.10
Second Quarter 
$14.67
$12.04
$0.08
First Quarter 
$14.73
$12.78
$0.08
     Dividends Paid
2011  High  Low
     Per Share
Fourth Quarter $13.08
$9.60
$0.08
Third Quarter 
$13.09
$9.13
$0.08
Second Quarter 
$14.15
$11.88
$0.06
First Quarter 
$15.75
$13.25
$0.06
    See a discussion of dividend limitations that the subsidiaries can pay to the Bancorp discussed in Note 3 of the Notes to the C
onsolidated 
Financial Statements. Additionally, as of December 31,
 2012, the Bancorp had 52,997 shareholders of record. 
 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
 Period Shares Purchased(a)
Average Price 
Paid Per Share Shares Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced 
Plans or Programs Maximum Shares that May Be Purchased Under the 
Plans or Programs October 2012 
 1,444,047 
$15.23 1,444,047 
77,024,853
November 2012 
 7,710,761 
 14.35 
 7,710,761 
69,314,092
December 2012 
 6,267,410 
 14.83 
 6,267,410 
63,046,682
Total  15,422,218 
$14.63 15,422,218 
63,046,682
(a)
 The Bancorp repurchased 87,515,
 65,484 and 55,046 shares during October, Novembe
r and December of 2012 in connection with vario
us employee compensation plans of the Bancorp.  These purchases are not incl
uded against the maximum number of shares that may yet be purch
ased under the Board of 
Directors authorization. 
 See further discussion of stock-based compensation in Note 23 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements
.   172  Fifth Third Bancorp 
The following performance graphs do not constitute soliciting material and should not be deemed filed or incorporated by refere
nce into any 
other Company filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent the Bancorp 
specifically 
incorporates the performance graphs by reference therein. 
 Total Return Analysis 
 The graphs below summarize the cumulative return experienced 
by the Bancorp's shareholders over the years 2007 through 2012, an
d 2002 
through 2012, respectively, compared to the S&P 500 Stock and the S&P Banks indices.   
  FIFTH THIRD BANCORP VS. MARKET INDICES 
` 173  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 PART III  ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE 
OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 The information required by this item relating to the Executive 
Officers of the Registrant is included in PART I under 

ﬁEXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE BANCORP.ﬂ  
The information required by this item concerning Directors 
and the nomination process is incorporated herein by reference 
under the caption ﬁELECTION OF DIRECTORSﬂ of the 
Bancorp™s Proxy Statement for the 2013 Annual Meeting of 

Shareholders.  
The information required by this item concerning the Audit 
Committee and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is 

incorporated herein by reference under the captions 

ﬁCORPORATE GOVERNANCEﬂ and ﬁBOARD OF 

DIRECTORS, ITS COMMITTEES, MEETINGS AND 

FUNCTIONSﬂ of the Bancorp™s Proxy Statement for the 2013 

Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  
The information required by this item concerning Section 16 
(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance is incorporated 

herein by reference under the caption ﬁSECTION 16 (a) 

BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCEﬂ of 

the Bancorp™s Proxy Statement for the 2013 Annual Meeting of 
Shareholders.  
 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
 The information required by this item is incorporated herein by 
reference under the captions ﬁCOMPENSATION DISCUSSION 

AND ANALYSIS,ﬂ ﬁCOMPENSATION OF NAMED 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS,ﬂ 
ﬁCOMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORTﬂ and 

ﬁCOMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND 

INSIDER PARTICIPATIONﬂ of the Bancorp™s Proxy Statement 

for the 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. 
 ITEM 12. SECURITY OW
NERSHIP OF CERTAIN 
BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND 

RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
 Security ownership information of certain beneficial owners and 
management is incorporated herein by reference under the 

captions ﬁCERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS,ﬂ ﬁELECTION 

OF DIRECTORS,ﬂ  ﬁCOMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND 

ANALYSISﬂ and ﬁCOMPENSATION OF NAMED 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORSﬂ of the Bancorp™s 

Proxy Statement for the 2013 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  
The information required by this item concerning Equity 
Compensation Plan information is included in Note 23 of the 

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED 

TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
 The information required by this item is incorporated herein by 
reference under the captions ﬁCERTAIN TRANSACTIONSﬂ, 

ﬁELECTION OF DIRECTORSﬂ, ﬁCORPORATE 

GOVERNANCEﬂ and ﬁBOARD OF DIRECTORS, ITS 

COMMITTEES, MEETINGS AND FUNCTIONSﬂ of the 
Bancorp™s Proxy Statement for the 2013 Annual Meeting of 
Shareholders.
   ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND 

SERVICES 
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by 
reference under the caption ﬁPRINCIPAL INDEPENDENT 
REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM FEESﬂ of the 

Bancorp™s Proxy Statement for the 2013 Annual Meeting of 

Shareholders.
  PART IV
 ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT 

SCHEDULES 
PagesPublic Accounting Firm 
82Fifth Third Bancorp and Subsidia
ries Consolidated Financial 
Statements 
83-87
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
88-162
 The schedules for the Bancorp and its subsidiaries are omitted 
because of the absence of conditions under which they are 

required, or because the information is set forth in the 

Consolidated Financial Statements or the notes thereto.  

 The following lists the Exhibits to the Annual Report on Form 10-K.
2.1 Master Investment Agreement (e
xcluding exhibits and schedules) 
dated as of March 27, 2009 and amended as of June 30, 2009, among 
Fifth Third Bank, Fifth Third Fi
nancial Corporation, Advent-Kong 
Blocker Corp., FTPS Holding, LL
C and Fifth Third Processing 
Solutions, LLC. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 2, 2009.  
3.1 Amended Articles of Incorpora
tion of Fifth Third Bancorp, as 
amended. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012.   
3.2 Code of Regulations of Fifth 
Third Bancorp, as Amended as of 
September 18, 2012. Incorporated by
 reference to the Registrant™s 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on 
September 21, 2012.     
4.1 Junior Subordinated Indenture, 
dated as of March 20, 1997 between 
Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmingt
on Trust Company, as Debenture 
Trustee.  Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Current Report on 
Form 8-K filed with the Secur
ities and Exchange Commission on 
March 26, 1997.  
4.2 Amended and Restated Trust Agre
ement, dated as of March 20, 1997 
of Fifth Third Capital Trust II, among Fifth Third Bancorp, as 

Depositor, Wilmington Trust Company, as Property Trustee, and the 
Administrative Trustees named therein.  Incorporated by reference to 
Registrant™s Current Report on Form 
8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on March 26, 1997.  
4.3 Guarantee Agreement, dated as of March 20, 1997 between Fifth 
Third Bancorp, as Guarantor, and Wilmington Trust Company, as 

Guarantee Trustee.  Incorporated by
 reference to Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with
 the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on March 26, 1997.  
4.4 Agreement as to Expense and Li
abilities, dated as of March 20, 1997 
between Fifth Third Bancorp, as 
the holder of the Common Securities 
of Fifth Third Capital Trust I and Fifth Third Capital Trust II.  

Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Current Report on Form 8-
K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on March 26, 
1997.  
4.5 Indenture, dated as of May 23,
 2003, between Fifth Third Bancorp 
and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee.  Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant™s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the 

Securities and Exchange Co
mmission on May 22, 2003.  
4.6 Global security representing Fifth Third Bancorp™s $500,000,000 
4.50% Subordinated Notes due 2018.  Incorporated by reference to 

Registrant™s Current Report on Form 
8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on May 22, 2003.  
4.7 First Supplemental Indenture, 
dated as of December 20, 2006, 
between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as 

Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Annual Report on 
Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.  
4.8 Global security representing Fifth Third Bancorp™s $500,000,000 
5.45% Subordinated Notes due 2017.  Incorporated by reference to 
Registrant's Annual Report on Form 
10-K filed for the fiscal year 
ended December 31, 2006.  
4.9 Global security representing Fifth Third Bancorp™s $250,000,000 
Floating Rate Subordinated Notes 
due 2016.  Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the 

fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.  
  174  Fifth Third Bancorp 
4.10 First Supplemental Indenture da
ted as of March 30, 2007 between 
Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee, to 
the Junior Subordinated Indenture 
dated as of May 20, 1997 between 
Fifth Third and the Trustee. Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s 

Current Report on Form 8-K filed w
ith the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on March 30, 2007.  
4.11 Certificate Representing $500,000,000.00 of 6.50% Junior 
Subordinated Notes of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant's Quarterl
y Report on Form 10-Q filed for the 
quarter ended March 31, 2007.  
4.12 Certificate Representing $250,010,000.00 of 6.50% Junior 
Subordinated Notes of Fifth Third Bancorp. Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant's Quarterl
y Report on Form 10-Q filed for the 
quarter ended March 31, 2007.  
4.13 Amended and Restated Declarati
on of Trust dated as of March 30, 
2007 of Fifth Third Capital Trust IV among Fifth Third Bancorp, as 
Sponsor, Wilmington Trust Company, as Property Trustee and 

Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees named therein. 
Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.  
4.14 Certificate Represen
ting 500,000 6.50% Trust Preferred Securities of 
Fifth Third Capital Trust IV (
liquidation amount 
$1,000 per Trust 
Preferred Security). Incorporated by reference to Registrant's 

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 
2007.  
4.15 Certificate Represen
ting 250,000 6.50% Trust Preferred Securities of 
Fifth Third Capital Trust IV (
liquidation amount 
$1,000 per Trust 
Preferred Security). Incorporated by reference to Registrant's 
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 

2007.  
4.16 Certificate Representing 10 6.
50% Common Securities of Fifth Third 
Capital Trust IV (liquidation am
ount $1,000 per Common Security). 
Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.  
4.17 Guarantee Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2007 between Fifth 
Third Bancorp, as Guarantor, and Wilmington Trust Company, as 
Guarantee Trustee. Incorporated 
by reference to Registrant's 
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 

2007.  
4.18 Agreement as to Expense and 
Liabilities, dated as of March 30, 2007 
between Fifth Third Bancorp and Fifth Third Capital Trust IV. 
Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 

10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2007.  
4.19 Replacement Capital Covenant of
 Fifth Third Bancorp dated as of 
March 30, 2007. Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Current 

Report on Form 8-K filed with
 the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on March 30, 2007.  
4.20 Amendment No. 1 to Replacement
 Capital Covenant, dated as of 
November 24, 2010 amending the 
Replacement Capital Covenant 
dated as of March 30, 2007. Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed w
ith the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on November 26, 2010.  
4.21 Global security dated as of March 4, 2008 representing Fifth Third 
Bancorp™s $500,000,000 8.25% 
Subordinated Notes due 2038. 
Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2008.  (1)  
4.22 Indenture for Senior Debt S
ecurities dated as of April 30, 2008 
between Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as 
trustee.  Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Current Report on 
Form 8-K filed with the Secur
ities and Exchange Commission on 
May 6, 2008.  
4.23 Global security dated as of April 30, 2008 representing Fifth Third 
Bancorp™s $500,000,000 6.25% Senior Notes due 2013. Incorporated 

by reference to Registrant™s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2008.  (2)  
4.24 Deposit Agreement dated June 25, 2008, between Fifth Third 
Bancorp, Wilmington Trust Compan
y, as depositary and conversion 
agent and American Stock Transfer 
and Trust Company, as transfer 
agent, and the holders from time to
 time of the Receipts described 
therein.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant™s 

Current Report on Form 8-K filed w
ith the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on June 25, 2008.  
4.25 Form of Certificate Representing the 8.50% Non-Cumulative 
Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series G, of Fifth Third 
Bancorp. Incorporated by reference 
to Exhibit 4.2 of the Registrant™s 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed w
ith the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on June 25, 2008.  
4.26 Form of Depositary Receipt fo
r the 8.50% Non-Cumulative Perpetual 
Convertible Preferred Stock, Series
 G, of Fifth Third Bancorp.  
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of the Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on June 25, 2008.  
4.27 Supplemental Indenture dated as
 of January 25, 2011 between Fifth 
Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee, to the 

Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 
between Fifth Third and the Trustee. 
Incorporated by reference to the 
Registrant™s Current Report on Form 
8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on January 25, 2011. 
4.28 Global Security dated as of Ja
nuary 25, 2011 representing Fifth Third 
Bancorp™s $500,000,000 3.625% Senior Notes due 2016. 

Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Current Report on Form 

8-K filed with the Securities a
nd Exchange Commission on January 
25, 2011. (3)  
4.29 Second Supplemental Indenture da
ted as of March 7, 2012 between 
Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington 
Trust Company, as Trustee, to 
the Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 
between Fifth Third and the Trustee. 
Incorporated by reference to the 
Registrant™s Current Report on Form 
8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on March 7, 2012. 
4.30 Global Security dated as of 
March 7, 2012 representing Fifth Third 
Bancorp™s $500,000,000 3.500% Senior Notes due 2022. 
Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Current Report on Form 
8-K/A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on 

March 7, 2012. 
10.1 Fifth Third Bancorp Unfunded 
Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-
Employee Directors, as Amended 
and Restated. Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 
ended December 31, 2011. * 
10.2 Fifth Third Bancorp 1990 Stock Option Plan.  Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant™s filing 
with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission as an exhibit to the Re
gistrant™s Registration Statement 
on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-34075. * 
10.3 Fifth Third Bancorp 1987 Stock Option Plan.  Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant™s filing 
with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission as an exhibit to the Re
gistrant™s Registration Statement 
on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-13252. * 
10.4 Indenture effective November 19,
 1992 between Fifth Third Bancorp, 
Issuer and NBD Bank, N.A., Trustee.
  Incorporated by reference to 
Registrant™s Current Report on Form
 8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on November 18, 1992 and as Exhibit 4.1 to 
the Registrant™s Registration Stat
ement on Form S-3, Registration 
No. 33-54134. 
10.5 Fifth Third Bancorp Master Pr
ofit Sharing Plan, as Amended and 
Restated. Incorporated by referenc
e to the Registrant™s Annual Report 
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.* 
10.6 First Amendment to Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing Plan, 
as Amended and Restated. Incor
porated by reference to the 
Registrant™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 

December 31, 2011.*  
10.7 Second Amended to Fifth Third Ba
ncorp Master Profit Sharing Plan, 
as Amended and Restated. * 
10.8 Fifth Third Bancorp 2011 Incentive Compensation Plan. Incorporated 
by reference to the Registrant™s Proxy Statement dated March 10, 
2011.*  
10.9 Amended and Restated Fifth Th
ird Bancorp 1993 Stock Purchase 
Plan.  Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.* 
10.10 Fifth Third Bancorp 1998 Long-Term Incentive Stock Plan, as 
Amended.  Incorporated by reference to the Exhibits to Registrant™s 
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2003.*  
10.11 Fifth Third Bancorp Non-qualif
ied Deferred Compensation Plan, as 
Amended and Restated.    
10.12 CNB Bancshares, Inc. 1999 Stock Incentive Plan, 1995 Stock 
Incentive Plan, 1992 Stock Incentive Plan and Associate Stock 

Option Plan; and Indiana Federal Corporation 1986 Stock Option and 
Incentive Plan.  Incorporat
ed by reference to Registrant™s filing with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to a 

Registration Statement on Form S-
4, Registration No. 333-84955 and 
by reference to CNB Bancshares Annual Report on Form 10-K, as 
amended, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998. *  
10.13 Fifth Third Bancorp Stock Option 
Gain Deferral Plan.  Incorporated 
by reference to Registrant™s Proxy Statement dated February 9, 
2001.*  
` 175  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 10.14 Amendment No. 1 to Fifth Third 
Bancorp Stock Option Gain Deferral 
Plan.  Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Current Report on 
Form 8-K filed with the Secur
ities and Exchange Commission on 
May 26, 2006. * . 
10.15 Old Kent Executive Stock Optio
n Plan of 1986, as Amended.  
Incorporated by reference to th
e following filings by Old Kent 
Financial Corporation with the S
ecurities and Exchange Commission: 
Exhibit 10 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995; 
Exhibit 10.19 to Form 8-K filed on March 5, 1997; Exhibit 10.3 to 
Form 8-K filed on March 2, 2000. *  
10.16 Old Kent Stock Option Incentive Plan of 1992, as Amended.  
Incorporated by reference to th
e following filings by Old Kent 
Financial Corporation with the S
ecurities and Exchange Commission: 
Exhibit 10(b) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1995; 
Exhibit 10.20 to Form 8-K filed on March 5, 1997; Exhibit 10(d) to 
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997; Exhibit 10.3 to Form 

8-K filed on March 2, 2000. *  
10.17 Old Kent Executive Stock Incen
tive Plan of 1997, as Amended.  
Incorporated by reference to Old Kent Financial Corporation™s 
Annual Meeting Proxy Statement dated March 1, 1997. *  
10.18 Old Kent Stock Incentive Plan of 1999.  Incorporated by reference to 
Old Kent Financial Corporation™
s Annual Meeting Proxy Statement 
dated March 1, 1999. * 
10.19  Notice of Grant of Performance Units and Award Agreement.  
Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Annual Report on Form 10-
K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. *  
10.20 Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock and Award Agreement (for 
Executive Officers).  Incorporated 
by reference to Registrant™s 
Annual Report on Form 10-K filed 
for the fiscal year ended 
December 31, 2004. *  
10.21 Notice of Grant of Stock Appreci
ation Rights and Award Agreement.  
Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Annual Report on Form 10-

K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. *  
10.22 Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock and Award Agreement (for 
Directors).  Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Annual Report 

on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. *  
10.23 Franklin Financial Corporation 1990 Incentive Stock Option Plan.  
Incorporated by reference to Franklin Financial Corporation™s Annual 

Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989.*  
10.24 Franklin Financial Corporation 2000 Incentive Stock Option Plan.  
Incorporated by reference to Franklin Financial Corporation™s 

Registration Statement on Form S-
8, Registration No. 333-52928. * 
10.25 Amended and Restated First Na
tional Bankshares of Florida, Inc. 
2003 Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to First National 
Bankshares of Florida, Inc.™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 

year ended December 31, 2003. *  
10.26 Southern Community Bancorp Equity Incentive Plan.  Incorporated 
by reference to Southern Co
mmunity Bancorp™s Registration 
Statement on Form SB-2, Registration No. 333-35548. *  
10.27 Southern Community Bancorp Di
rector Statutory Stock Option Plan. 
Incorporated by reference to Southern Community Bancorp™s 

Registration Statement on Form SB
-2, Registration No. 333-35548. *  
10.28 Peninsula Bank of Central Flor
ida Key Employee Stock Option Plan.  
Incorporated by reference to Southern Community Bancorp™s Annual 

Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003. *  
10.29 Peninsula Bank of Central Flor
ida Director Stock Option Plan.  
Incorporated by reference to Southern Community Bancorp™s Annual 

Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003. *  
10.30 First Bradenton Bank Amended 
and Restated Stock Option Plan. 
Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Annual Report on Form 10-

K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. *  
10.31 Stipulation and Agreement of 
Settlement dated March 29, 2005, as 
Amended.  Incorporated by refere
nce to Registrant™s Current Report 
on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on 
November 18, 2005. 
10.32 Amendment to Stipulation dated May 10, 2005.  Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant™s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the 

Securities and Exchange Comm
ission on November 18, 2005.  
10.33 Second Amendment to Stipul
ation dated August 12, 2005.  
Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Current Report on Form 8-

K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on November 
18, 2005.  
10.34 Order and Final Judgment of the 
United States District Court for the 
Southern District of Ohio.  Incorpor
ated by reference to Registrant™s 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed w
ith the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on November 18, 2005.  
10.35 Form of Executive Agreements effective December 31, 2008, 
between Fifth Third Banc
orp and Kevin T. Kabat, Robert A. Sullivan, 
Greg D. Carmichael, Ross Kari, Br
uce K. Lee, Charles D. Drucker 
and Terry Zink. Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with
 the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on December 31, 2008. *  
10.36 Form of Executive Agreements effective December 31, 2008, 
between Fifth Third Bancorp and Na
ncy Phillips, Daniel T. Poston, 
Paul L. Reynolds and Mary E. Tuuk. Incorporated by reference to 
Registrant™s Current Report on Form 
8-K filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on December 31, 2008. *  
10.37 Form of Executive Agreement effective December 31, 2008, between 
Fifth Third Bancorp and Mahesh Sank
aran. Incorporated by reference 
to Registrant™s Current Report on Fo
rm 8-K filed with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission on December 31, 2008. *  
10.38 Form of Executive Agreement effective January 17, 2012, between 
Fifth Third Bancorp and Tayfun Tuzun.  Incorporated by reference to 
Registrant™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 

December 31, 2011.*  
10.39    Form of Amended Executive 
Agreements effective January 19, 2012, 
between Fifth Third Bancorp and 
Daniel T. Poston and Paul L. 
Reynolds. Incorporated by referenc
e to Registrant™s Current Report 
on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on 
January 24, 2012. * 
10.40 Warrant dated June 30, 2009 issued by Vantiv Holding, LLC to Fifth 
Third Bank. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Schedule 
13D filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012.  
10.41 Second Amended & Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement 
(excluding certain exhibits) dated as
 of March 21, 2012 by and among 
Vantiv, Inc., Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC, Vantiv Holding, 

LLC and each person who becomes a member after March 21, 2012. 
Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Schedule 13D filed with 
the Commission on April 2, 2012.  
10.42 Amendment and Restatemen
t Agreement and Reaffirmation 
(excluding certain schedules) dated 
as of June 30, 2009 among Fifth 
Third Processing Solutions, LLC, FTPS Holding, LLC, Card 

Management Company, LLC, Fift
h Third Holdings, LLC and Fifth 
Third Bank. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 2, 2009. 
10.43 Registration Rights Agreement 
dated as of March 21, 2012 by and 
among Vantiv, Inc., Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, LLC, JPDN 
Enterprises, LLC and certain stockholders of Vantiv, Inc. 
Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Schedule 13D filed with 

the Commission on April 2, 2012. 
10.44 Exchange Agreement dated as of March 21, 2012 by and among 
Vantiv, Inc., Vantiv Holding, LLC, Fifth Third Bank, FTPS Partners, 

LLC and such other holders of Class B Units and Class C Non-Voting 
Units that are from time to time pa
rties of the Exchange Agreement. 
Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Schedule 13D filed with 

the Commission on April 2, 2012. 
10.45 Recapitalization Agreement da
ted as of March 21, 2012 by and 
among Vantiv, Inc., Vantiv Holding, LLC, Fifth Third Bank, FTPS 

Partners, LLC, JPDN Enterprises, 
LLC and certain stockholders of 
Vantiv, Inc. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Schedule 
13D filed with the Commission on April 2, 2012. 
10.46 Form of Agreement Regarding Po
rtion of Salary Payable in Phantom 
Stock Units dated October 16, 2009 
executed by Kevin Kabat, Greg 
Carmichael, Greg Kosch, Bruce Lee, Dan Poston, Paul Reynolds, 

Robert Sullivan, and Terry Zink. In
corporated by reference to the 
Registrant™s Quarterly Report on 10-Q for the quarter ended 
September 30, 2009. * 
10.47 Form of Letter Agreement dated June 29, 2010 executed by each of 
Kevin Kabat, Greg Carmichael, Greg Kosch, Bruce Lee, Dan Poston, 
Paul Reynolds, Robert A. Sullivan and Mary Tuuk with the 

Company. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Quarterly 

Report on 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010. * 
10.48 Form of Addendum No.1 to Agre
ement Regarding Portion of Salary 
Payable in Phantom Stock Units ex
ecuted by each of Kevin Kabat, 
Greg Carmichael, Greg Kosch, Bruce Lee, Dan Poston, Paul 
Reynolds, Robert A. Sullivan and Mary Tuuk with the Company. 
Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Quarterly Report on 10-

Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010. * 
  176  Fifth Third Bancorp 
10.49 Description of Vantiv, Inc. Director Compensation for Paul L. 
Reynolds and Greg D. Carmichael. Incorporated by reference to 
Exhibit 10.8 of the Registrant™s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for 
the quarter ended March 31, 2012. On May 10, 2012, Daniel T. 

Poston was elected as a Class B Director of Vantiv, Inc. to replace 
Paul L. Reynolds. Mr. Poston will be 
subject to a substantially similar 
compensation arrangement as described in Exhibit 10.8 of the 

Registrant™s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
March 31, 2012.* 
10.50 Master Confirmation, as supplemented by a Supplemental 
Confirmation, for accelerated share repurchase transaction dated 
November 6, 2012 between Fifth 
Third Bancorp and Credit Suisse 
International*** 
10.51 Master Confirmation, as supplemented by a Supplemental 
Confirmation, for accelerated share repurchase transaction dated 
December 14, 2012 between Fifth Th
ird Bancorp and Credit Suisse 
International*** 
12.1 Computations of Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.  
12.2 Computations of Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to Combined Fixed 
Charges and Preferred Stock Dividend Requirements.  
21 Fifth Third Bancorp Subsidiaries, as of December 31, 2013.  
23 Consent of Independent Register
ed Public Accounting Firm-Deloitte 
& Touche LLP.  
31(i) Certification Pursuant to Secti
on 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002 by Chief Executive Officer.  
31(ii) Certification Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002 by Chief Financial Officer.  
32(i) Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted 
Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief 

Executive Officer.  
32(ii) Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted 
Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by Chief 

Financial Officer.  
101 Interactive data files pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T: (i) the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) 
the Consolidated Statements of 
Income, (iii) the Consolidated Stat
ements of Comprehensive Income 
(iv) the Consolidated Statements
 of Changes in Equity, (v) the 
Consolidated Statements of Cash
 Flows, and (vi) the Notes to 
Consolidated Financial Statements 
tagged as blocks of text and in 
detail.  **   
  
(1)
 Fifth Third Bancorp also entered into
 an identical security on March 4, 
2008 representing an additional $500,000,000 of its 8.25% Subordinated 
Notes due 2038. 
(2) Fifth Third Bancorp also entered in
to an identical security on April 30, 
2008 representing an additional $250,000,000 of its 6.25% Senior Notes 
due 2013.  
(3) Fifth Third Bancorp also entered in
to an identical security on January 25, 
2011 representing an additional $500,000,000 of its 3.625% Senior Notes 
due 2016. 
  *    Denotes management contract or
 compensatory plan or arrangement. **  As provided in Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, this information is furnished 
and not filed for purposes of Sections 11 and 12 of the Securities Act of 
1933 and Section 18 of the Secur
ities Exchange Act of 1934.   
*** An application for confidential treatment for selected portions of this 
exhibit has been filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. ` 177  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 SIGNATURES 
 Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused 

this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto 

duly authorized. 

 FIFTH THIRD BANCORP 
Registrant 
 /s/ Kevin T. Kabat Kevin T. Kabat 
Vice Chairman and CEO 
Principal Executive Officer 
February 22, 2013 
 
Pursuant to requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 

this report has been signed on February 22, 2013 by the 

following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the 

capacities indicated. 
  OFFICERS
:  /s/ Kevin T. Kabat Kevin T. Kabat 
Vice Chairman and CEO 
Principal Executive Officer 

 /s/ Daniel T. Poston 
Daniel T. Poston  
Executive Vice President and CFO 
Principal Financial Officer 

 /s/ Mark D. Hazel 
Mark D. Hazel  
Senior Vice President and Controller 
Principal Accounting Officer 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 DIRECTORS: 
 /s/ William M. Isaac 
William M. Isaac 
Chairman  
 /s/ James P. Hackett 
James P. Hackett Lead Director  /s/ Darryl F. Allen 
Darryl F. Allen  /s/ B. Evan Bayh III 
B. Evan Bayh III 
 /s/ Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr. 
Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr. 
 /s/ Emerson L. Brumback 
Emerson L. Brumback 
 /s/ Gary R. Heminger 
Gary R. Heminger  /s/ Jewell D. Hoover 
Jewell D. Hoover 
 /s/ Kevin T. Kabat Kevin T. Kabat 
 /s/ Mitchel D. Livingston, Ph.D. 
Mitchel D. Livingston, Ph.D. 
 /s/ Michael B. McCallister 
Michael B. McCallister  /s/ Hendrik G. Meijer 
Hendrik G. Meijer 
 /s/ John J. Schiff, Jr. 
John J. Schiff, Jr. 
 /s/ Marsha C. Williams 
Marsha C. Williams CONSOLIDATED TEN YEAR COMPARISION 
 178  Fifth Third Bancorp 
AVERAGE ASSETS ($ IN MILLIONS) 
   Interest-Earning Assets  
       Year  Loans and Leases 
Federal Funds Sold
 (a)
  Interest-Bearing 
Deposits in Banks(a)
  Securities 
 Total  
 Cash and Due 
from Banks  
Other 
Assets  Total Average 
Assets  2012 
$  84,822 
  2  1,493 
  15,319 
 $ 101,636 
   2,355 
  15,695
$ 117,614 
 2011 
  80,214 
  1  2,030 
  15,437 
   97,682 
   2,352 
  15,335
  112,666 
 2010 
  79,232 
  11
  3,317 
  16,371 
   98,931 
   2,245 
  14,841
  112,434 
 2009 
  83,391 
  12
  1,023 
  17,100 
   101,526 
   2,329 
  14,266
  114,856 
 2008 
  85,835 
  438
  183 
  13,424 
   99,880 
   2,490 
  13,411
  114,296 
 2007 
  78,348 
  257
  147 
  11,630 
   90,382 
   2,275 
  10,613
  102,477 
 2006 
  73,493 
  252
  144 
  20,910 
   94,799 
   2,477 
  8,713
  105,238 
 2005 
  67,737 
  88
  113 
  24,806 
   92,744 
   2,750 
  8,102
  102,876 
 2004 
  57,042 
  120
  195 
  30,282 
   87,639 
   2,216 
  5,763
  94,896 
 2003 
  52,414 
  92
  215 
  28,640 
   81,361 
   1,600 
  5,250
  87,481 
     AVERAGE DEPOSITS AND SHORT-TERM
 BORROWINGS ($ IN MILLIONS) 
           Deposits       Year  Demand 
Interest Checking  
Savings  Money Market Other 
Time  
Certificates 
$100,000 and 
Over 
Foreign 
Office  Total  
Short-Term 
Borrowings
Total  
2012 
 $ 27,196 
  23,096 
  21,393 
  4,903 
  4,306
  3,102 
  1,555
 $ 85,551 
  4,806 
 $ 90,357 
 2011 
   23,389 
  18,707 
  21,652 
  5,154 
  6,260
  3,656 
  3,497
  82,315 
  3,122 
  85,437 
 2010 
   19,669 
  18,218 
  19,612 
  4,808 
  10,526
  6,083 
  3,361
   82,277 
  1,926 
   84,203 
 2009 
   16,862 
  15,070 
  16,875 
  4,320 
  14,103
  10,367 
  2,265
   79,862 
  6,980 
   86,842 
 2008 
   14,017 
  14,191 
  16,192 
  6,127 
  11,135
  9,531 
  4,220
   75,413 
  10,760 
   86,173 
 2007 
   13,261 
  14,820 
  14,836 
  6,308 
  10,778
  6,466 
  3,155
   69,624 
  6,890 
   76,514 
 2006 
   13,741 
  16,650 
  12,189 
  6,366 
  10,500
  5,795 
  3,711
   68,952 
  8,670 
   77,622 
 2005 
   13,868 
  18,884 
  10,007 
  5,170 
  8,491
  4,001 
  3,967
   64,388 
  9,511 
   73,899 
 2004 
   12,327 
  19,434 
  7,941 
  3,473 
  6,208
  2,403 
  4,449
   56,235 
  13,539 
   69,774 
 2003 
   10,482 
  18,679 
  8,020 
  3,189 
  6,426
  3,832 
  3,862
   54,490 
  12,373 
   66,863 
 INCOME ($ IN MILLIONS, 
EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA) 
                          Per Share
(b)
                        Originally Reported
 Year   Interest Income  Interest Expense  
Noninterest 
Income  Noninterest 
Expense 
Net Income (Loss) 
Available to Common 
Shareholders  
Earnings 
Diluted Earnings  
Dividends Declared  
Earnings 
Diluted Earnings 
2012 
 $ 4,107 
  512 
  2,999 
  4,081 
  1,541 
  1.69 
  1.66 
  0.36 
 1.69
 $ 1.66 
 2011 
   4,218 
  661 
  2,455 
  3,758 
  1,094 
  1.20 
  1.18 
  0.28 
 1.20
  1.18 
 2010 
   4,489 
  885 
  2,729 
  3,855 
  503 
  0.63 
  0.63 
  0.04 
 0.63
   0.63 
 2009 
   4,668 
  1,314 
  4,782 
  3,826 
  511 
  0.73 
  0.67 
  0.04 
 0.73
   0.67 
 2008 
   5,608 
  2,094 
  2,946 
  4,564 
  (2,180)
  (3.91)
  (3.91)
  0.75 
 (3.94)
   (3.94)
 2007 
   6,027 
  3,018 
  2,467 
  3,311 
  1,075 
  1.99 
  1.98 
  1.70 
 2.00
   1.99 
 2006 
   5,955 
  3,082 
  2,012 
  2,915 
  1,188 
  2.13 
  2.12 
  1.58 
 2.14
   2.13 
 2005 
   4,995 
  2,030 
  2,374 
  2,801 
  1,548 
  2.79 
  2.77 
  1.46 
 2.79
   2.77 
 2004 
   4,114 
  1,102 
  2,355 
  2,863 
  1,524 
  2.72 
  2.68 
  1.31 
 2.72
   2.68 
 2003 
   3,991 
  1,086 
  2,398 
  2,466 
  1,664 
  2.91 
  2.87 
  1.13 
 2.91
   2.87 
 MISCELLANEOUS AT DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
            Bancorp Shareholders' Equity  
     Year Common 
Shares 
Outstanding   Common 
Stock  
Preferred 
Stock  
Capital Surplus Retained 
Earnings 
Accumulated 
Other 
Comprehensive 
Income  Treasury 
Stock  
Total  
Book Value Per Share 
Allowance for 
Loan and Leases Losses 
2012 
  882,152,057 
 $ 2,051 
  398 
  2,758 
 8,768 
 375 
  (634)
 $ 13,716 
  15.10 
 $ 1,854 
 2011 
  919,804,436 
  2,051 
  398 
  2,792 
 7,554 
 470 
  (64)
  13,201 
  13.92 
  2,255 
 2010 
  796,272,522 
   1,779 
  3,654 
  1,715 
 6,719 
 314 
  (130)
   14,051 
  13.06 
   3,004 
 2009 
  795,068,164 
   1,779 
  3,609 
  1,743 
 6,326 
 241 
  (201)
   13,497 
  12.44 
   3,749 
 2008 
  577,386,612 
   1,295 
  4,241 
  848 
 5,824 
 98 
  (229)
   12,077 
  13.57 
   2,787 
 2007 
  532,671,925 
   1,295 
  9 
  1,779 
 8,413 
 (126)
  (2,209)
   9,161 
  17.18 
   937 
 2006 
  556,252,674 
   1,295 
  9 
  1,812 
 8,317 
 (179)
  (1,232)
   10,022 
  18.00 
   771 
 2005 
  555,623,430 
   1,295 
  9 
  1,827 
 8,007 
 (413)
  (1,279)
   9,446 
  16.98 
   744 
 2004 
  557,648,989 
   1,295 
  9 
  1,934 
 7,269 
 (169)
  (1,414)
   8,924 
  15.99 
   713 
 2003 
  566,685,301 
   1,295 
  9 
  1,964 
 6,481 
 (120)
  (962)
   8,667 
  15.29 
   697 
 (a) Federal funds sold and interest-bearing deposits in banks are co
mbined in other short-term investments in the Consolidated Fina
ncial Statements.  
(b) Adjusted for accounting guidance related to the calculation of 
earnings per share, which was adopted retroactively on January 1
, 2009. 
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS 
 179  Fifth Third Bancorp 
 FIFTH THIRD BANCORP DIRECTORS
 William M. Isaac, Chairman 
Senior Managing Director-Global 
Head of Financial Institutions  

FTI Consulting 
 James P. Hackett, Lead 
Director 

President & CEO 
Steelcase, Inc.
 Darryl F. Allen 
Retired Chairman 
President & CEO 
Aeroquip-Vickers, Inc. 
 B. Evan Bayh III 

Partner 
McGuireWoods LLP  
 
Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr. 

President 

B.F. Companies Emerson L. Brumback 
Retired President & COO 
M&T Bank
 Gary R. Heminger 
President & CEO 
Marathon Petroleum Corporation
 Jewell D. Hoover Principal & Bank Consultant 

Hoover and Associates,
 LLC 
Kevin T. Kabat 
Vice Chairman & CEO 
Fifth Third Bancorp Mitchel D. Livingston, Ph.D. 
Retired Vice President for Student 

Affairs & Chief Diversity Officer  
University of Cincinnati 
Michael B. McCallister 
Chairman  
Humana Inc.  
 Hendrik G. Meijer 
Co-Chairman & CEO 
Meijer, Inc.
   John J. Schiff, Jr. 
Chairman of the Executive 

Committee 
Cincinnati Financial Corporation  
 
Marsha C. Williams 

Retired Senior Vice President & 
Chief Financial Officer  
Orbitz Worldwide, Inc. 

 
DIRECTORS EMERITI  
Philip G. Barach 
John F. Barrett 
J. Kenneth Blackwell 

Milton C. Boesel, Jr. 
Douglas G. Cowan 
Thomas L. Dahl 

Ronald A. Dauwe 

Gerald V. Dirvin 
Thomas B. Donnell 
Nicholas M. Evans 

Richard T. Farmer 

Louis R. Fiore 
John D. Geary 
Ivan W. Gorr 

Joseph H. Head, Jr. 

Allen M. Hill 
William G. Kagler 
William J. Keating 

Jerry L. Kirby 
Robert L. Koch II 
Kenneth W. Lowe 
Robert B. Morgan 

Michael H. Norris 
David E. Reese 
James E. Rogers George A. Schaefer, Jr. 

Donald B. Shackelford 

David B. Sharrock 
Stephen Stranahan 
Dennis J. Sullivan, Jr. 

Dudley S. Taft 

Thomas W. Traylor 
Alton C. Wendzel 
 
FIFTH THIRD 
BANCORP OFFICERS
 Kevin T. Kabat 
Vice Chairman & CEO 
Greg D. Carmichael 
President & Chief Operating 

Officer 

 Steven Alonso 
Executive Vice President  

 Todd F. Clossin 
Executive Vice President &  

Chief Administrative Officer 

 Mark D. Hazel Senior Vice President & 
Controller James R. Hubbard 
Senior Vice President & 
Chief Legal Officer 
Gregory L. Kosch 
Executive Vice President 
Daniel T. Poston 
Executive Vice President & 
Chief Financial Officer Paul L. Reynolds  
Executive Vice President,  

Chief Risk Officer & Secretary 
 Joseph R. Robinson 

Executive Vice President & 
Chief Information Officer  
Robert A. Sullivan 
Senior Executive Vice President 
Teresa J. Tanner 
Executive Vice President & 
Chief Human Resources Officer 
Tayfun Tuzun 
Senior Vice President & Treasurer
  AFFILIATE AND 
MARKET PRESIDENTS  
Donald Abel, Jr. 

David A. Call 

John N. Daniel 
Karen Dee 
David Girodat 

Thomas Heiks 

Nancy H. Huber  
Julie Hughes 
Jerry Kelsheimer 

Randolph Koporc 

Robert W. LaClair 
Brian Lamb Ralph S. Michael III  

Jordan A. Miller, Jr. 

Thomas Partridge Reagan Rick Robert A. Sullivan 

Mary E. Tuuk Michelle L. VanDyke 
Thomas G. Welch, Jr. 

 
FIFTH THIRD BANCORP BOARD 
COMMITTEES 

Finance Committee 
William M. Isaac, Chair   
Emerson L. Brumback 
James P. Hackett 

Gary R. Heminger 

Kevin T. Kabat  
 Audit Committee 

Darryl F. Allen, Chair 

Emerson L. Brumback 
Jewell D. Hoover Michael B. McCallister 

Marsha C. Williams 

 Human Capital and 
Compensation Committee 

Gary R. Heminger, Chair 

Emerson L. Brumback 
Mitchel D. Livingston, Ph. D. 
Hendrik G. Meijer 
Marsha C. Williams 

 Nominating and Corporate 
Governance Committee 

James P. Hackett, Chair
 Darryl F. Allen 
B. Evan Bayh III 
Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr. 

 
Risk and Compliance 
Committee 
Marsha C. Williams, Chair 

B. Evan Bayh III 

Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr. 
Jewell D. Hoover Hendrik G. Meijer 
 
Trust Committee 
Mitchel D. Livingston, Ph.D., 
Chair Kevin T. Kabat  

John J. Schiff, Jr. 
  
 
 
  ˙˝Łˇ˚
˝˝
˜˚˛˜
˝˝˜˚˛˛
˝˝˜˚˛˚
˝
˙
˙›˙ƒ‡−ı™
˙›˙ƒ‡⁄¥ı˙
˙›˙ı−–
˙•
˙˙–⁄−˙˙⁄−ı
˙˙–⁄˙
˙˙–−
˙˙−‹˙˙⁄‹−˝
˙˙›˙ƒ…™¥
˙›˙ƒ…⁄‹˙›˙‹…™–
˙
˙˙ƒ…™™˙˙ƒ…ƒŽ
˙˙‹…™–
˙˙˙‹…–™
˙˙‹…⁄Ž
˙˙‹…‹Ł
˙†
˙˙ƒ−…ƒ‹
˙˙ƒ–…¥⁄
˙˙ƒ–…‹™
˝˙
˝˝˝
˝˝
˝˙
˙›˙ƒ⁄ƒ‡Ž¥Ł
˙›˙ƒƒ™‡¥™ı
˙›˙ƒƒƒ‡‹‹ı
˙§
˙˙ŽŽ‡ı⁄ƒ
˙˙Ž–‡¥ı⁄
˙˙ı¥‡ı‹ı
˙˙˙Ž¥‡−ƒı
˙˙Ž−‡ıƒ‹
˙˙Žƒ‡™ŁŽ˙œ
˙˙ƒ–‡ıƒ™
˙˙ƒ–‡⁄‹ƒ
˙˙ƒŁ‡‹−ƒ
˝
˝˝˝
˝˝
˝˙
˙˙–…−−Ÿ˙˙–…™™Ÿ˙˙–…™™Ÿ˙
˙˙™ƒ…ıŸ
˙˙™⁄…–Ÿ˙˙™‹…ıŸ
˙£
˙˙¥…−ƒŸ
˙˙¥…–−Ÿ
˙˙ı…ŁŽŸ
˙
˙˙ƒ‹…™−Ÿ
˙˙ƒƒ…¥ƒŸ˙˙ƒ–…ŽŽŸ˙
˙˙ƒŁ…Ł⁄Ÿ˙˙ƒ™…‹¥Ÿ
˙˙ƒŽ…‹ŽŸ
˝˙
˝˝˝
˝˝
˝˙•§
˙˙ŽŽ⁄‡ƒ−⁄
˙˙¥ƒ¥‡Ž‹Ł
˙˙ı¥™‡⁄ı–
˙
˙˙ƒ‡–⁄−˙˙ƒ‡–ƒ™˙˙ƒ‡–ƒ⁄˙˜
˙˙⁄‡Łƒ−
˙˙⁄‡Ł⁄−˙˙⁄‡ŁŁ−˙š
˙˙⁄‹‡ı¥Ž
˙˙⁄ƒ‡––Ł˙˙⁄‹‡Ž–Ž
˝˝˝˜˚˛˜
˝˝˝˜˚˛˛
˝˝˝˝
˝˝˝
˝˝˝˝˝˝˝
˝‡š—‡˝˝˘Ÿ
˝˝‡š—‡˝˘Ÿ
˝˙
˙›˙ƒ™…ƒ™
˙›˙ƒ–…ı−
˙›˙‹…ƒ‹
˙›˙ƒ–…‹Ž
˙›˙¥…™‹
˙›˙‹…‹Ž
˙
˙˙ƒ−…¥−
˙˙
ƒ–…‹ı
˙˙
‹…ƒ‹
˙˙ƒ–…‹¥
˙˙
¥…ƒ–
˙˙
‹…‹Ž
˙
˙˙ƒŁ…™ı
˙˙
ƒ⁄…‹Ł
˙˙
‹…‹Ž
˙˙ƒŁ…ƒ−
˙˙
ƒƒ…ŽŽ˙˙
‹…‹™
˙
˙˙ƒŁ…ı–
˙˙
ƒ⁄…ıŽ
˙˙
‹…‹Ž
˙˙ƒ−…ı−
˙˙
ƒ–…⁄−˙˙
‹…‹™
˜ž
ﬂ¡
˜˚
€


⁄™–
†Š˙‰‰‰…−–…
ı⁄„–‹–‹
˙
†

š‡˙˝˝•…
˜˚˛˝˙˚˛˛
™⁄‹†…
˙†Š˙‰‰‰

˙
˜ˆˇ˛ˆˇ
˘…¢˙¥⁄⁄

˚†‰˙¤⁄™¥„‹−™‹
…
‹†…•ﬁ
