  38 FOUNTAIN SQUARE PLAZA 
 CINCINNATI, OHIO 45263 
 NOTICE OF ANNUAL MEETI
NG OF SHAREHOLDERS  March 10, 2016 
To the Shareholders of Fifth Third Bancorp: 
 You are cordially invited to attend the Annual Meeting of the Shareholders of Fifth Third Bancorp to be held at the Regency 
Ballroom, located on the third floor of the Hyatt Regency Cincinna
ti, at 151 West 5 Street, Cincinnati, Ohio on Tuesday, April 
19, 2016 at 11:30 a.m. Eastern daylight savings time for the purposes of considering and acting upon the following: 
           Shareholders of record at the close of business on February 26, 2016 will be entitled to vote at the Annual Meeting. 
 All shareholders who 
find it convenient to do so are invited to attend 
the Annual Meeting in person
. In any event, please vote at your earliest convenie
nce by signing and returning the 
proxy card you receive or by vo
ting over the internet or by 
telephone. 
   If you have any questions or need assistance voting your shares
, please call D.F. King & Co., In
c., which is assisting us, toll
-free 
at 1-800-821-8780. 
 By Order of the Board of Directors 
 Heather Russell Koenig 
 Corporate Secretary  (1)Election of all members of the Board of 
Directors to serve un
til the Annual Meetin
g of Shareholders in 2017. 
 (2)Approval of the appointment of the firm of Deloitte & Touche
 LLP to serve as the independent
 external audit firm for the Company for the 
year 2016. 
 (3)An advisor
y approval of the Compan
y™s executive compensation. 
 (4)An advisory vote to determine whethe
r the shareholder vote on th
e compensation of the Compan
y™s executives will occur 
every 1, 2, or 3 
years. 
 (5)Transaction of such other business that ma
y properl
y come before the Annual Meetin
g or an
y adjournment thereof.   If you plan to attend
 the Annual Meeting:
   Please note that space limitations make it
 necessary to limit attendance only to
 shareholders of the Company and the 
holders of shareholder proxies. Admission to the Annual Meeting will be on a first-come, first-served basis and will require 
presentation of a valid driver™s license or other federal or stat
e issued photo identif
ication card. Shareholders of record sho
uld 
bring the admission ticket attached to their proxy card or the 
Notice of Internet Availability they receive in order to be 
admitted to the meeting. ﬁStreet
 nameﬂ shareholders will need to bring a notice 
regarding the availability of proxy materials, 
the top portion of a vo
ting instruction form or a 
recent proxy or letter from
 the bank, broker or othe
r intermediary that holds
 the beneficial holders™ shares and which 
confirms the beneficial hold
ers™ ownership of those shares. Registration and seating 
will begin at approximately 11:00 a.m. Eastern daylight savings time. Communication and recording devices will not be 
permitted at the Annual Meeting.
 A copy of the regulations for conduct at the 
Annual Meeting is attach
ed as Annex A to the 
proxy statement.
   thTABLE OF CONTENTS 
  QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ABOUT THE ANNUAL MEETING AND VOTING
 2 INFORMATION ABOUT THE 2016 ANNUAL MEETING
 9 CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
  10 
SECTION 16(a) BENEFICIAL OW
NERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE 10 
ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
 (Item 1 on Proxy Card)
  11 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS, ITS COMMITTEES, MEETINGS AND FUNCTIONS
 18 
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
  20 
BOARD LEADERSHIP
  20 
RISK MANAGEMENT OVERSIGHT
 20 
COMMUNICATION WITH THE BOARD
  21 
SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION WITH INVESTOR RELATIONS DEPARTMENT
 22 
COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
  23 
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
  23 
2015 PERFORMANCE RESULTS
 25 
THE COMPANY™S HUMAN CAPITAL AND COMPENSATION COMMITTEE
 26 
EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION PHILOSOPHY AND RISK MANAGEMENT
 29 
COMPENSATION STRUCTURE AND METHODOLOGY
 31 
2015 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN DESIGN AND AWARD DECISIONS
 34 
2016 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATI
ON PLAN DESIGN CHANGES
 41 
EXECUTIVE BENEFITS AND PERQUISITES
  42 
TAX AND ACCOUNTING IMPACT OF COMPENSATION PROGRAMS
 44 
EXECUTIVE OWNERSHIP AND CAPITAL ACCUMULATION
 44 
COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS
 46 
POTENTIAL PAYMENTS UPON TERMINATION OR CHANGE
-IN-CONTROL 55 
DIRECTOR COMPENSATION 58 
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS 
AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION 61 
COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT
 61 
CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS
  62 
REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
 64 
PRINCIPAL INDEPENDENT EX
TERNAL AUDIT FIRM FEES
 65 
COMPANY PROPOSAL 1: INDEPENDENT EX
TERNAL AUDIT FIRM (Item 2 on Prox
y Card) 
  66 
COMPANY PROPOSAL 2: ADVISORY VOTE ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (Item 3 on Prox
y Card) 
  67 
COMPANY PROPOSAL 3: ADVISORY VOTE ON FREQ
UENCY OF VOTES ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
(Item 4 on Prox
y Card) 
  68 
2017 SHAREHOLDER PROPOSALS
 69 
OTHER BUSINESS
  71 
ANNEX A
  A-1 
AGENDA
      38 Fountain Square Plaza  Cincinnati, Ohio 45263    2016 Proxy Statement    This proxy statement, notice of 
the 2016 Annual Meeting,
 notice of internet availability, form of proxy, and the Annual Report 
of the Company for the 
year 2015 are first bein
g sent or made available to shareholders on or about March 10, 2016. 
 QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 ABOUT THE ANNUAL M
EETING AND VOTING 
 What is this document? 
 This document is called a proxy 
statement. This proxy statement 
includes information regarding th
e matters to be acted upon at 
the 2016 Fifth Third Bancorp Annual Meeting of Shareholders (the ﬁAnnual Meetingﬂ) and certain other information required by th
e Securities and Exchange Commission (the
 ﬁSECﬂ) and the rules of the Nasdaq
 Global Select Market (ﬁNasdaqﬂ). 
   When is the Annual
 Meeting and where will it be held? 
 The Annual Meeting will be held on Tuesday, April 19, 2016, at 
the Regency Ballroom, located on the third floor of the Hyatt 
Regency Cincinnati, at 151 West 5 Street, Cincinnati, Ohio at 11:30 A.M. Eastern Daylight Savings Time. 
   Why am I being provided this proxy statement? 
 Fifth Third Bancorp (the ﬁCompanyﬂ or ﬁFifth Thirdﬂ) is required by the SEC to give you, or provide you access to, this proxy 
statement because it is soliciting your prox
y to vote your shares of Fifth Third stock 
at the Annual Meeting. The enclosed prox
y statement summarizes informatio
n you need in order to vote at the Annual Meeting. 
   What is a proxy? 
 A proxy is your designation of another person to vote stock y
ou own. That other person is called a proxy. If you designate 
someone as your proxy in a written document, that document also is called a proxy or a proxy card. When you designate a proxy, 
you 
also may direct the proxy how to vote your shares. Three Fifth Th
ird directors, James P. Hackett,
 Kevin T. Kabat and Marsha C. 
Williams, have been designated as the proxies to cast the vot
es of Fifth Third™s shareholders at the Annual Meeting. 
   What actions are shareholders ap
proving at the Annual Meeting? 
 Election of Directors
. Eleven director nominees have
 been recommended for election to
 the Board of Directors by the 
Nominating and Corporate Governan
ce Committee of the Board. The 
nominees for election are: Nichol
as K. Akins, B. Evan Bayh, 
Jorge L. Benitez, Katherine B.
 Blackburn, Emerson L. Brumback, Greg D. Carm
ichael, Gary R. Heminger, Jewell D. Hoover, 
Michael B. McCallister, Hendrik G. Meijer,
 and Marsha C. Williams. Information about these nominees may be found in the proxy 
statement section titled ﬁE
lection of Directors.ﬂ  Company Proposal 1: Ratification of Auditors
. This is a proposal to ratify the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the 
Company™s independent external audi
t firm for 2016. This approval is not required 
by law to appoint an in
dependent external aud
it 
firm, but this appointment is submitted by the Audit Committee in order to give shareholders a voice in the designation of the 
independent external audit firm. If this re
solution is rejected by the 
shareholders, then the Audit 
Committee will reconsider its choice 
of independent external audit firm. Even if this resolution is 
approved, the Audit Committee, at its discretion, may direct the
 appointment of a different independent external
 audit firm at any time during the year 
if it determines that such a change woul
d be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. 
   2 thQUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ABOUT 
THE ANNUAL MEETI
NG AND VOTING
    Company Proposal 2: Advisory Approval of Executive Compensation
. Proposal 2 is an annual advisory vote to approve the 
compensation of Fifth Third™s na
med executive officers, or NEOs. The Board will st
rongly consider the outcome of this advisory 
vote 
in determining the compensation of such executives. In 2015, over 94% of Fifth Third™s shareholders who cast a vote on the 
Company™s executive compensation program voted to approve it. 
 Company Proposal 3: Advisory Vote to Determine Frequency of Executive Compensation Votes
. Proposal 3 is an advisory vote 
to determine how often shareholders will be given the opportunity 
to approve the compensation of the Company™s NEOs: either eve
ry 
one, every two, or every three 
years. The Board will str
ongly consider the outcome of these votes in determining how often the 
shareholders are provided a say on pay vote. At the 2015 Annual Meeting, Fifth Third™s shareholders supported the Board™s 
recommendation that shareholders 
be provided the option to cast 
an advisory vote every one y
ear on the compensation of the 
Company™s NEOs. Accordingly, the Board decided to hold a ﬁsay on payﬂ vote annually. 
   What vote is required to approve the prop
osals considered at th
e Annual Meeting?  Election of Directors 
 As long as cumulative voting is 
not in effect, in an uncontested election of di
rectors those nominees fo
r director receiving a greater number of votes ﬁforﬂ his or her el
ection than votes ﬁagainstﬂ his or her electio
n will be elected as directors. In the
 event of a 
contested election or if cumulative voting is
 in effect, the eleven nominees receiving 
the greatest number of votes ﬁforﬂ his o
r her 
election shall be elected. Abstentions and shares not voted by brok
ers and other entities holding shares on behalf of beneficia
l owners 
will not be counted and will have no effect on the outcome of the election. 
 All Other Proposals 
 All other proposals at the Annual Meeting re
quire the affirmative vote of 
a majority of the shares pr
esent in person or by prox
y at the Annual Meeting and entitled to vote on the proposal. Abst
entions have the same effect as a vote cast against a proposal.
 Shares 
not voted by brokers or other entities holding shares on behalf
 of beneficial owners will have no effect on the outcome. 
 It is important to vote your 
shares at the Annual Meeting. 
   Who may vote and what constitutes a quorum at the meeting? 
 Holders of Fifth Third common stock on February 26, 2016 are entitled to vote on every matter that is to be voted on at the 
Annual Meeting. 
 In order to conduct the Annual Meeting, a majority of shares of Fifth Third common stock entitled to vote at the Annual 
Meeting on every matter that is to be voted on must be present in person or by proxy. This is called a quorum. Shareholders who
 deliver valid proxies or vote in person at the meeting will be 
considered part of the quorum. 
Once a share is represented for a
ny 
purpose at the meeting, it 
is deemed present for quorum purposes for the remainder of the meeting and for any adjourned meeting
. Abstentions will be counted as present and entitled to vote for pu
rposes of determining a quorum. Broker ﬁnon-votesﬂ (which are
 explained below) are counted as present and entitled
 to vote for purposes of determining a quorum. 
     3 QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ABOUT THE ANNUAL M
EETING AND VOTING 
    How many votes do I have? 
 Each share of Fifth Third common stock outstanding on February 26, 2016 is entitled to one vote on all proposals at the 
meeting. As of the close of business on February 26, 2016, ther
e were approximately 783,805,368 shares of Fifth Third common 
stock outstanding and entitled to vote. 
 If notice in writing is given by any shareholder to the President,
 a Vice President, or the Secret
ary of the Company not less t
han 
forty-eight (48) hours before the time fixed for holding a meeting of shareholders for the purpose of electing directors that a
 shareholder desires that the voti
ng at such election shall be cumulative, and if 
an announcement of the gi
ving of such notice i
s made 
upon the convening of the m
eeting by the Chairman or Secretary 
or by or on behalf of the shar
eholder giving such notice, each 
shareholder shall have the right to cumulate such voting power as he or she possesses in voting for directors. This will not af
fect the voting procedures for the other proposal
s considered at th
e Annual Meeting. 
   How do I vote? 
 Record Shareholders  A shareholder who owns their shares in their own name may vote in person at the Annual Meeting by filling out a ballot or may 
authorize a proxy to vote on his or her behalf
. There are three ways 
to authorize a proxy: 
 1. Internet
: You may access the proxy mate
rials on the Internet at 
www.cesvote.com and follow the instructions on the proxy 
card or on the Notice of Internet Availability. 
 2. Telephone
: You may call toll-free 1-888-693-8683, and follow the instructions on the proxy card or on the Notice of Internet 
Availability. 
 3. Mail: If you received your proxy 
materials by mail, you may vo
te by signing, dati
ng and mailing the enclosed proxy card in 
the postage-paid envelope provided. 
 Shareholders who vote over the Internet 
may incur costs, such as telephone an
d Internet access charges, for which the 
shareholder is responsible. The Internet and telephone voting pro
cedures are designed to authen
ticate a shareholder™s identity 
and to allow a shareholder to vote his or her shar
es and confirm that his or he
r instructions have been pr
operly recorded. You may use
 the 
Internet or telephone to submit your proxy until 11:00 a.m., Eastern daylight savings time, on the morning of the Annual Meetin
g, 
April 19, 2016. 
 Street Name Shareholders 
 Shareholders who hold shares in ﬁstreet name
,ﬂ that is, through a broker, bank or other nominee, should instruct their nominee 
to 
vote their shares by following the instructions provided by the nominee. Your vote as a shareholder is important. Please vote a
s soon 
as possible to ensure that your
 vote is recorded. See ﬁCan 
my broker vote for me?ﬂ below. 
     4 QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ABOUT 
THE ANNUAL MEETI
NG AND VOTING
    What if I sign and date my proxy but
 do not provide voting instructions? 
 A proxy that is signed and dated, but which does not contain voting instructions will be voted as follows: 
           Can my broker vote for me?
 If you are a beneficial owner of shares held in street name through a broker, bank or other nominee and do not provide the 
organization that holds your shares with specific voting instruc
tions then, under applicable rule
s, the organization that holds
 your 
shares generally has discretionary authority to vote on ﬁroutineﬂ matters without receiving instructions from you but cannot vo
te on 
ﬁnon-routineﬂ matters unless you pr
ovide instructions. If the organization that hol
ds your shares does not receive instructions
 from 
you on how to vote your shares on a non-routine matter, that organization will inform the inspector of election that it does no
t have 
the authority to vote on that matter with respect to your sh
ares. This is generally referred to as a ﬁbroker non-vote.ﬂ 
 All proposals at the Annual M
eeting except Company Proposal 1 (Ratification of
 Auditors) are considered non-routine matters 
under applicable rules. A broker, bank or other nominee cannot vote without instructions on non-routine matters, and therefore 
broker 
non-votes may exist in connection with the el
ection of directors and Company Proposals 2 
and 3. It is important to instruct you
r broker, bank or other nominee to vote your shares. 
 The ratification of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Company™s inde
pendent external audit firm for 2016 (Company Proposal 1) is 
considered a routine matter under applicable
 rules. A broker or other nominee generally exercises its discretionary authority t
o vote 
on routine matters without instructions. Although brokers and other nominees are not required to exercise discretionary authori
ty, we expect that no broker non-votes will exis
t in connection with Company Proposal 1. 
   Can I change my vote or revoke my proxy? 
 You may change your vote or revoke your proxy at any time before it is voted at the Annual Meeting by filing with the 
Company an instrument revoking it, filing a duly executed proxy bearing a later date (including a proxy given over the Internet
 or by 
telephone), or by attending the meeting and electing to vote in person. 
Even if you plan to attend 
the Annual Meeting, you are 
encouraged to vote your shares by proxy.
     How are proxy materials delivered? 
 Fifth Third controls its costs by following SEC rules that 
allow for the delivery of proxy materials to the Company™s 
shareholders primarily through the Internet. In addition to reducing the amount of paper used in producing these materials, thi
s method lowers the costs associated with mailing the proxy material
s to shareholders. Shareholders 
who own shares directly in Fi
fth 
Third and not through a bank, broker or intermediary (ﬁrecord hol
dersﬂ) will have a Notice of Internet Availability of Proxy Ma
terials delivered directly to their mailing address. Shareholders whose 
shares are held for them by ba
nks, brokerages or other intermed
iaries 
   5  Ł ﬁFORﬂ the election of each of the eleven
 directors nominated by the Fifth Thir
d Nominating and Co
rporate Governance Committee; 
  Ł ﬁFORﬂ the ratification of Deloitte & Touche LLP as Fifth Thir
d™s independent external audit firm (Compan
y Proposal 1); 
 Ł ﬁFORﬂ the advisory vote on executive compensation (Compan
y Proposal 2); and 
 Ł For holding an advisory vote for approval of the co
mpensation of the Company™
s executives every ﬁ1 Yea
rﬂ (Company 
Proposal 3). 
 QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ABOUT THE ANNUAL M
EETING AND VOTING 
    (ﬁbeneficial holdersﬂ) will have a Notice of Internet Availability
 of Proxy Materials forwarded to them by the intermediary tha
t holds 
the shares. Shareholders who have requeste
d paper copies of all proxy materials and certain institutional and other shareholder
s will 
also receive paper copies of the other prox
y materials including this pr
oxy statement, the 2015 Annual
 Report of 
Fifth Third Ba
ncorp 
and a proxy card or voting instruction sheet. 
 If you received only a Notice of Internet Av
ailability of Proxy 
Materials by mail, you will not 
receive a printed copy of the 
proxy materials unless you request a copy by following the instructions on the notice. The Notice of Internet Availability of P
roxy 
Materials also contains instructions for 
accessing and reviewing the proxy materials 
over the Internet and 
provides directions 
for 
submitting your vote over the Internet. 
   What if I share an address and a last na
me with other Fifth 
Third shareholders? 
 To reduce the expenses of delivering duplicate proxy mate
rials to shareholders, the Company is relying upon SEC 
ﬁhouseholdingﬂ rules that permit it to deliver only one set of applicable proxy materials to multiple shareholders who share an
 address 
and have the same last name, unless the Comp
any receives contrary instructions from an
y shareholder at that address. Shareholde
rs o
f record who have the same address and last name and have not pr
eviously requested electronic delivery of proxy materials will re
ceive 
a single envelope containing the notices or the proxy statement and proxy card for all shareholders having that address. The no
tice or proxy card for each shareholder w
ill include that shareholder™s un
ique control number needed to 
vote his or her shares. This 
procedure reduces our printing costs and postage fees. If, in the future, you do not wish to participate in householding and pr
efer to receive your Notice or Proxy Statem
ent in a separate envelope, please call us to
ll-free at 1-800-821-8780 in the U.S., or infor
m us in 
writing at: Fifth Third Bancorp, c/o D.F. King & Co., Inc., 48 Wall Street Œ 22 Floor, New York, NY 10005, or by email at 
FITB@dfking.com. We will respond promptly to such requests. 
 For those shareholders who have the same address and last na
me and who request to receive 
a printed copy of the proxy 
materials by mail, we will send only one 
copy of such materials to each
 address unless one or more of those shareholders notifi
es us, 
in the same manner described above, that
 they wish to receive a printed copy 
for each shareholder 
at that address. 
 Beneficial shareholders can request information about householding from their banks, brokers or other holders of record. 
   How do I request a paper or e-mail
 copy of the proxy materials? 
 Record Shareholders  You may request a paper or e-mail copy of the proxy materials by following the instructions below. You will be asked to 
provide your 11-digit control number located on 
your proxy card or Notice of Internet Availability. 
 1. Call the toll-free telephone number 1-800-516-1564 and follow the instructions provided, or 
 2. Access the website www.SendMaterial.com and follow the instructions provided, or 
 3. Send an e-mail to papercopy@SendMaterial.com with your control number in the Subject line. Unless you instruct otherwise, 
we will reply to your e-mail with links to the prox
y materials in PDF format for this meeting only. 
 Please make your request for a copy on or before April 5, 2016 to facilitate timely delivery. 
   6 ndQUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ABOUT 
THE ANNUAL MEETI
NG AND VOTING
    Street Name Shareholders 
 Shareholders who hold shares in ﬁstreet name
,ﬂ that is, through a broker, bank or other nominee, should request copies of the 
proxy materials by following the instructions provided by the nominee. 
   Can I attend the Annual Meeting? 
 You can attend the Annual Meeting if you are a: 
       In addition to a valid photo ID or other satisfactory proof of identification, you should bring the following items to be admit
ted 
to the Annual Meeting: 
 a) Record holders must presen
t the admission ticket 
attached to their proxy card or 
Notice of Internet Availability. 
 b) Beneficial holders must present eviden
ce of their ownership. Materials that a
ppropriately evidence ownership include: a 
notice regarding the availability 
of proxy materials, th
e top portion of a voti
ng instruction form or 
a recent proxy or letter 
from 
the bank, broker or other intermediary that holds the beneficial holders™ shares and which confirms the beneficial holders™ 
ownership of those shares. 
 c) In addition to any evidence required under (B) above for be
neficial holders, authorized representatives of beneficial 
holders must present a letter from the reco
rd holder certifying as to th
e beneficial ownership of th
e entity they represent and a letter from the beneficial holder certifying as to
 their status as an authorized representative. 
 No recording devices, photographic equipment or bullhorns will be
 permitted into the Annual M
eeting. No written materials 
may be distributed by any person at or in physical proximity to the Annual Meeting. The Chairman of the Annual Meeting shall ha
ve the power to silence or have removed any person in order to ensure the orderly conduct of the Annual Meeting. Fifth Third 
representatives will be at the entrance to 
the Annual Meeting and these representatives 
will have the authority, on the Company
™s behalf, to determine whether the admission policy and procedures are being followed and whether you will be granted admission t
o the Annual Meeting. 
   How do I propose actions for the 201
7 Annual Meeting of Shareholders? 
 Shareholder Proposals to be
 included in the Company
™s Proxy Statement 
 In order for a shareholder proposal for the 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be eligible for inclusion in the Company™s 
proxy statement, it must comply with the requirements of Rule 
14a-8 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the ﬁExchange Actﬂ)
, and must be received by the Company on or be
fore the date provided on page 69 at the 
address or facsimile 
number provided on pa
ge 69. 
   7  1.Record holder of Fifth Third common stock; 
 2.Beneficial holder of Fifth Third common stock; or 
 3.Authorized representative of persons or entities who are beneficial holders of Fifth Third common stock. 
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS ABOUT THE ANNUAL M
EETING AND VOTING 
    Shareholder Proposals not 
included in the Company
™s Proxy Statement  Any shareholder who intends to propose any matter to be acted upon at the 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders without such 
proposal being included in the Company™s proxy statement as a sh
areholder proposal must send a 
notice to the Corporate Secretar
y during the period referenced on page 69 using the address and facsimile number listed on page 69. 
   Who can I call for help in voting my shares? 
 If you have any questions or need assistance voting your shares
, please call D.F. King & Co., In
c., which is assisting us, toll
-free 
at 1-800-821-8780. 
   Who can I contact with questions about my investment in Fifth Third? 
 Shareholders who wish to speak to a Fifth Third representative regarding their investment in Fifth Third may communicate 
directly with Fifth Third™s Investor Relations Department by 
calling 866-670-0468. In addition, shareholders may communicate in
 writing directly with the Investor Relations Department by sending a letter to 38 Foun
tain Square Plaza, MD
 1090QC, Cincinnati,
 OH
45263 or by emailing ir@53.com. You can also view information and request documents from the Investor Relations page of Fifth 
Third™s website at www.53.com. 
   8 INFORMATION ABOUT THE 2016 ANNUAL MEETING 
The Board of Directors of Fifth Third Bancorp (the ﬁCompanyﬂ) is soliciting proxies for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to 
be held at the Regency Ballroom, located on the third floor of the Hyatt Regency Cincinnati, at 151 West 5 Street, Cincinnati, 
Ohio 
on Tuesday, April 19, 2016 at 11:30 a.m. Eastern daylight sa
vings time (the ﬁAnnual Meetingﬂ
). Each of the approximately 
783,805,368 shares of common stock outstanding on February 26, 2016 is entitled to one vote on all matters acted upon at the An
nual 
Meeting. Only shareholders of record on the books of the Company at the close of business on February 26, 2016 will be entitled
 to 
vote at the Annual Meeting, either in person or by proxy. The 
shares represented by all properl
y executed proxies that are sent
 to the 
Company will be voted as designated and each 
not designated will be voted and counted as
 described in this 
proxy statement. Each person giving a proxy may revoke it by giving notice to the Company in writing or in open meeting at any time before it is vote
d. 
 The laws of Ohio under which the Company is
 incorporated provide 
that if notice in writing is gi
ven by any shareholder to the 
President, a Vice President, or 
the Secretary of the Company not 
less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time fixed for hol
ding a 
meeting of shareholders for the purpose of
 electing directors that such shareholder 
desires that the voting at such election sh
all be cumulative, and if an announcemen
t of the giving of such notice is made upon th
e convening of the meeting by the Chairman or 
Secretary or by or on behalf of the shar
eholder giving such notice, each
 shareholder shall have the right to cumulate such voti
ng 
power as he or she possesses in voting for directors. This will
 not affect the votin
g procedures for the other proposals consid
ered at the Annual Meeting. 
 The expense of soliciting proxies will be borne by the Company. 
Proxies will be solicited principally by mail, but may also be 
solicited by the directors, officers, and 
other regular employees of the Company, wh
o will receive no comp
ensation therefore in addition to their regular compensation. Brokers and others who hold 
stock on behalf of others will be asked to send proxy mater
ial to 
the beneficial owners of the stock, and the Co
mpany will reimburse them for their expenses.  The Company has retained D.F. King & Co., Inc., a proxy solic
itation firm, to assist the Co
mpany in soliciting proxies. The 
Company anticipates that the costs of D.F. Ki
ng™s services will be approximately $12,000. 
 The Annual Report of the Company for the year 2015, including fi
nancial statements, has been delivered or made available to 
all shareholders. Such report and financial 
statements are not a part of this proxy st
atement. This proxy st
atement, form of proxy, 
notice of Annual Meeting, notice of internet
 availability and the 
Annual Report are first being se
nt or made available to share
holders 
on or about March 10, 2016. 
   9 thCERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS 
Under Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act, a beneficial owner of a security is any person who directly or indirectly has or share
s voting power or investment power over such security. Such bene
ficial owner under this definition need not enjoy the economic 
benefit of such securities. The fo
llowing are the only shareholders 
known to the Company to be deemed to be beneficial owners o
f 5% or more of the common stock of 
the Company as of December 31, 2015: 
       SECTION 16(a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING COMPLIANCE 
 Section 16(a) of the Exchange Ac
t requires the Company™s executive officers and 
directors, and persons who own more than ten 
percent of a registered class of the Compan
y™s stock, to file reports of ownership and changes in ownership with the SEC. Execu
tive officers, directors and greater th
an ten percent shareholders are 
required by SEC regulation to furnish the Company with copies
 of all 
Section 16(a) forms they file. 
 Based solely on its review of the copies 
of such forms received by it, or written re
presentations from cer
tain reporting person
s that no Annual Statement of Changes In Bene
ficial Ownership of Securitie
s on Form 5 were required for those persons, the Compan
y believes that, for the period January 1, 
2015 through December 31, 2015
, its executive officers and di
rectors complied with all
 filing 
requirements applicable to them. 
   10 Title of Class Name and Address of
Beneficial Owner Amount and Nature 
of Beneficial Ownership
 Percent
of ClassCommon Stock  The Vanguard Group
 46,665,894
 5.9%  100 Van
guard Blvd.
   Malvern, PA 19355
  Common Stock  BlackRock, Inc. 46,271,503
 5.8%  55 East 52nd Street
   New York, NY 10022
  Common Stock  State Street Corporation
 43,450,450
 5.5%  State Street Financial Cente
r   One Lincoln Stree
t   Boston, MA 02111
  (1)The Vanguard Group owns the above holdings in its capacity as an investment advisor in accordance with SEC Rule 13
d-1(b)(1)(ii)(E). According to the Schedule 13G 
filed with the SEC on February 10, 2016, in the aggregate, Vanguard Group and the affiliated entities included in the Schedule 
13G have sole dispositive power over 
45,087,736 shares, shared dispositive power over 1,578,158 shares, sole voting power over 1,470,364 shares and shared voting po
wer over 80,200 shares of our common 
stock. (2)BlackRock, Inc. owns the above holdings in its capacity as a parent holding company or control person in accordance with SEC
 Rule 13
d-1(b)(1)(ii)(G). According to the 
Schedule 13G filed with the SEC on January 26, 2016, in the aggregate, BlackRock, Inc. and the affiliated entities included in 
the Schedule 13G have sole dispositive 
power over 46,165,917 shares, sole voting power over 39,128,575 sh
ares and shared voting and dispositive power over 105,586 shar
es of our common stock. 
(3)State Street Corporation owns the above holdings in its capacity as parent holding company or control person in accordance w
ith SEC Rule 13
d-1(b)(1)(ii)(G). According 
to the Schedule 13G filed with the SEC on February 12, 2016, in the aggregate, State Street Corporation and the affiliated enti
ties included in the Schedule 13G have shared 
dispositive power and shared votin
g power over 43,450,450 shares of our common stock. 
(1)
(2)
(3)
ELECTION OF DIRECTORS 
(Item 1 on Proxy Card) 
 In accordance with the Company™s 
Code of Regulations, directors ar
e elected annually to a one (1) 
year term expiring at the nex
t Annual Meeting of Shareholders. The terms of
 the directors listed below expire at the 
Annual Meeting on April 19, 2016 and thes
e individuals constitute the nominees to be el
ected to serve until the Annual Meeting of
 Shareholders in 2017. Messrs. Bridgeman,
 Hackett and Kabat will retire from the Boar
d at the Annual Meeting. All of them have generously given valuable service to the 
Company as directors for many years. The Bo
ard of Directors will 
decrease the size of the Board such
 that no vacancies will res
ult 
from these retirements. Any vacancies that 
occur after the directors are elected may be
 filled by the Board of Directors in acc
ordance with law and the Company™s Code of Re
gulations for the remainder of the fu
ll term of the vacant directorship. 
 Director candidates are nominated by th
e Company™s Nominating and 
Corporate Governance Commit
tee. The Nominating and 
Corporate Governance Committee™s charter dir
ects the Committee to investigate and asse
ss the background and skills of potential
 candidates and to maintain an active file of suitable candida
tes for directors. The Nominatin
g and Corporate Governance Committee utilizes its pool of existing subsidiary and affiliate directors as well as the significant network of business contacts of its
 existing 
directors and executive management as the pr
imary pipeline from which its director ca
ndidates are identified. The Company has a
lso 
retained Diversified Search to aid it in identifying potentia
l director candidates. Upon identifying a candidate for serious 
consideration, the Company™s Ch
ief Executive Officer and one or more member
s of the Nominating and Corporate Governance 
Committee initially interviews such candidate. If the candidate me
rits further consideration, the candidate subsequently interv
iews 
with other Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee members (individually or as a group), and ultimately meets the 
remaining directors. The Nominating and Co
rporate Governance Committee elicits feedback from persons who meet the candidate 
and then determines whether or 
not to nominate the candidate. 
 The Company™s Corporate Governance Guidelines set forth the following criteri
a for directors: independence (in order to 
compose a Board of Directors that has a majo
rity of its members who are independent); highest personal and professional ethics 
and integrity; willingness to devote sufficient time to fulfilling dutie
s as a director; impact on th
e diversity of the Board™s ove
rall 
experience in business, government, educati
on, technology and other areas relevant to
 the Company™s business; impact on the 
diversity of the Board™s composition in term
s of age, skills, ethnicity and other factors relevant to the Company™s business; a
nd number of other public company boards on which the candidate may 
serve (generally, should not be 
more than three public company
 boards in addition to the Co
mpany). The Company™s Corporate Governance Guidelines provide th
at shareholders may propose 
nominees to the Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee by submitting the names and qualifications of such persons to the
 Nominating and Corporate Governan
ce Committee no later than December 31 of each y
ear. Submissions are to be addressed to the 
Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee at the Company™s ex
ecutive offices, which submissions will then be forwarded to 
the Committee. The No
minating and Corporate Governance Committee would then
 evaluate the possible no
minee using the criteria 
outlined above and would consider such person in comparison 
to all other candidates. The No
minating and Corporate Governance 
Committee is not obligated to
 nominate any such individual for election. No such shareholder nomina
tions have been received by 
the 
Company for this Annual Meeting. Accordingly, no rejections or
 refusals of such candidates ha
ve been made by the Company. 
Shareholders may also nominate candidates di
rectly for election by followi
ng the procedures in the Company™s Code of Regulation
s. These are summarized in the ﬁ
2017 Shareholder Proposalsﬂ section of this proxy statement. 
 The Nominating and Corporate Go
vernance Committee of the Board of Directors 
has nominated for election as directors the 
following eleven (11) pers
ons: Nicholas K. Akins, B. Evan Bayh III, Jorg
e L. Benitez, Katherine 
B. Blackburn, Emerson L. 
Brumback, Greg D. Carmichael, Ga
ry R. Heminger, Jewell D. Hoover, Michael B. Mc
Callister, Hendrik G. Meijer, and Marsha C. 
Williams. 
   11 ELECTION OF DIRECTORS      The following tables set forth 
information with respect to each director nominee for election at the An
nual Meeting including 
their business experience, share holdings and 
qualifications as a director
 of the Company. The Board of Directors has determine
d that 
all director nominees have met the independ
ence standards of Rule 5605(a)(2) of the Na
tional Association of
 Securities Dealers 
listing standards with the ex
ception of Mr. Carmichael. 
     12      
     
Shares of Compan
yCommon Stock 
Beneficially Owned
on January 31, 
2016    
Name, Age and Principal Occupation Durin
g the Past Five Years
 Director
Since   
Number
   
Percentof Class  NOMINEES FOR ELECTION AS DIRECTORS:
     
  NICHOLAS K. AKINS
, 55, is the Chairman, President & Chief 
Executive Officer of Am
erican Electric Power.  2013  
   0  
  .0000% 
  Mr. Akins possesses valuable business expertise obtain
ed in his role as the Ch
ief Executive Officer of 
a large, multi-state electri
c utility where he gained experience fro
m a focus on local operating utilities, 
community involvement, government relations and regulations at the state, local and federal levels. 
Mr. Akins has experience in all facet
s of operational, financial and 
compliance related activities in a 
heavily regulated business and industry.
                                                                                   
       
        B. EVAN BAYH III
, 60, is a Partner in the law firm McGuireWoods 
LLP and a senior adviso
r to the private equity
 firm, Apollo Global 
Management. Mr. Bayh also serves on the Board of Directors of 
Marathon Petroleum Corporation, Berry Plastics Group, Inc. and RLJ 
Lodging Trust.
     2011  
   15,358  
  .0020% 
  For two decades, first as Governor 
of Indiana and then in the Unite
d States Senate, Mr. Bayh dealt 
with a variety of financial, economic and policy issu
es that impact a wide variety of businesses. He 
had supervisory authority over thousands of employees and oversaw a budget in excess of $10 billion. 
As a member of the Senate Banking Committee and 
Chairman of the Interna
tional Trade and Finance 
Subcommittee, Mr. Bayh gained perspective on issues of particular relevance to Fifth Third Bancorp.
                                                                                   
       
     JORGE L. BENITEZ
, 56, is the retired Chie
f Executive Officer of North America of Accenture plc and a 
director of World Fuel Services Corporation. Previously, from September 2006 to August 2011, 
Mr. Benitez served as Chief Operatin
g Officer of Accenture™s Products 
Operating Group.
     2015  
   0  
  .0000% 
  Mr. Benitez brings to the Board his extensive experi
ence developing and executing business strategies 
across a range of industries, particul
arly air, freight 
and travel and transportatio
n services, as well as 
significant executive experience running operating units within a large multinational publicly-traded 
corporation.                                                                                   
     
   (1)
(2)(3)
ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
      13      
    
Shares of CompanyCommon Stock 
Beneficially Owned
on January 31, 
2016    
Name, Age and Principal Occupation Durin
g the Past Five Years
 Director
Since   
Number   
Percentof Class     KATHERINE B. BLACKBURN, 50, is the Executive Vice President 
of the Cincinnati Bengals, Inc.
    2014  
   19,500  
   .0025% 
  Ms. Blackburn possesses valuable and unique business experience in running operations for the 
Cincinnati Bengals professional football franchise. Her experiences have given her skills and 
expertise that qualify her for Board service, incl
uding her roles in player contract negotiations, 
oversight of the team™s management of the NFL 
salary cap, her service as chair of the NFL™s 
diversity committee and Super Bowl committee and her 
position as one of six tr
ustees of the Player 
Retirement Benefit Board (three of whom are re
tired players and three 
of whom are NFL Club 
representatives), as well as her education and 
prior experiences as an 
attorney. Additionally, 
Ms. Blackburn brings to the Board knowledge and 
familiarity of the Compan
y and its headquarters 
city of Cincinnati.
                                                                                   
          
     EMERSON L. BRUMBACK, 64, Retired President & COO of M&T 
Bank. Former director of M&T Bank
 Corporation. Vice Chairman of 
the Board of the Great Lakes 
Higher Education Corporation.
    2009  
   32,358  
   .0041% 
  Mr. Brumback possesses a vast amount of knowledge regarding banking through his experience of 
more than 30 years in the financial services indus
try with several banking organizations, including 
the Buffalo branch of the Federa
l Reserve Bank of New York. He has gained valuable insight 
through his experience in executiv
e positions overseeing many as
pects of the banking field, 
including retail banking, commercial banking, banking operations and systems. He also brings his 
experience as a former board member wi
th another financial services company.
                                                                                   
        
        GREG D. CARMICHAEL, 
54, Chief Executive Officer of Fifth 
Third Bancorp since November 2015 and President since September 
2012. Previously, Mr. Carmichael was Chief Operating Officer of 
Fifth Third Bancorp from June 2006 to August 2015, Executive Vice 
President from June 2006 to September 2012 and Chief Information 
Officer from June 2003 to June 2006.
    2015  
   1,015,421  
   .1295% 
  Mr. Carmichael possesses valuable insight and know
ledge to the Board due to his service as its Chie
f Executive Officer and his prior 
role as Chief Operating Officer
. Mr. Carmichael also brings 
important technical expertise from
 his years of service as Chief 
Information Officer and his prior 
service in information technology roles with prior employers.
                                                                                   
      
   (1)
(2)(3)
ELECTION OF DIRECTORS        14      
     
Shares of Compan
yCommon Stock 
Beneficially Owned
on January 31, 2016    
Name, Age and Principal Occupation Durin
g the Past Five Years
 Director
Since   
Number
   
Percentof Class  GARY R. HEMINGE
R, 62, President, Chie
f Executive Officer and 
Director of Marathon Petroleum Co
rporation and the Chairman and 
Chief Executive Officer of MPLX GP LLC (the general partner of 
MPLX LP).
     2006  
   39,436  
  .0050% 
  Mr. Heminger possesses valuable business knowledge gained from his responsibilities in overseeing 

all operations, performance, reporting and financial metrics for Marathon™s refining, marketing, 
transportation and Speedway business and has financial experience through his oversight of all 
financial data, working capital, and merger and acquisition activity.
                                                                                   
      
     JEWELL D. HOOVER, 67, author of the ﬁUltimate Guide for Bank 
Directorsﬂ and retired senior official
 with the Office of the Comptroller 
of the Currency. Ms. Hoov
er is also a former director of First Charter 
Corporation and was a principal with the bank consulting firm of 
Hoover and Associates, LLC until 2014.
     2009  
   30,495  
  .0039% 
  Ms. Hoove
r™s qualifications for service as a director of
 the Company include 28 
years of service with 
the Office of the Comptroller of 
the Currency, including service as
 the Deputy Comptroller of the 
agency™s Western District. She also has gained valuable banking experience and knowledge as a bank 
consultant for corporate governa
nce, director training and problem bank resolution matters. 
Additionally, she has first-hand knowledge of the Company through her service as a former affiliate 
director and director of a 
predecessor banking organization.
                                                                                   
        
      MICHAEL B. MCCALLISTE
R, 63, is the retired Chairman of the 
Board of Directors of Humana In
c. Mr. McCallister was the Chief 
Executive Officer of Humana Inc. 
from February 2000 until December 
2012. He was elected as a Humana bo
ard member in February 2000 and 
was Chairman of the Board from 
August 2010 to
 December 2013. Director of AT&T Inc. an
d director of Zoetis Inc.
     2011  
   16,143  
  .0021% 
  As a 39-year veteran of Humana Inc., Mr. McCallis
ter brings an unparalleled depth of experience in 
the health care sector combined wi
th an intimate knowledge of Humana™s operational, financial and 
strategic development. Beyond Humana, Mr. McCallister plays a leadership role in key business 
advocacy organizations. He served on the board of 
the Business Roundtable and is the past chairman 
of the organization™s Health and Retirement Task Force.
                                                                                   
       
   (1)
(2)(3)
ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
      15      
     
Shares of Compan
yCommon Stock 
Beneficially Owned
on January 31, 
2016    
Name, Age and Principal Occupation Durin
g the Past Five Years
 Director
Since   
Number
   
Percentof Class     HENDRIK G. MEIJE
R, 64, Co-Chairman, Director and Chief 
Executive Officer of Meijer, Inc. and its affiliates, a food and general 
merchandise retailer with approximately 223 supercenters located in 
Michigan, Ohio, Indiana, Illinois, Kentucky and Wisconsin.
     2001  
   71,120  
  .0091% 
  Mr. Meijer has extensive business knowledge and e
xperience gained through hi
s position as the Chief 
Executive Officer of a company wi
th more than 65,000 employees and approximately 223 retail 
locations that competes successfully 
with the largest retailers in the 
United States. Mr. Meijer also has 
valuable banking knowledge through his service as a director of a predecessor banking organization.
                                                                                   
      
        MARSHA C. WILLIAMS
, 64, retired Senior 
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Orbitz Worldwide, Inc. from July 2007 through 
December 31, 2010. From 2002 to 
2007, Ms. Williams served as 
Executive Vice President and Chief Fi
nancial Officer of Equity Office 
Properties Trust, the nation™s largest owner and operator of office 
buildings. Supervisory Director of Chicago Bridge & Iron Company 
N.V. Lead Independent Director of Modine Manufacturing Company. 
Director of the Davis Funds.
     2008  
   31,822  
  .0041% 
  Ms. Williams™qualifications for director includ
e her extensive experience in financial matters 
including 42 years in finance and her service as 
the Chief Financial Officer of Orbitz and Equity 
Office Properties Trust as well as
 her service on the board of directors of other publicly traded 
corporations and mutual funds. Ms. Williams al
so possesses knowledge and experience in the 
financial services industry through her 15 years of service with other banking organizations.
                                                                                   
       
     NON-CONTINUING DIRECTORS:
     
     ULYSSES L. BRIDGEMAN, J
R., 61, is the owner and President of 
B.F. Companies, which operates a number of Wendy™s Old Fashioned 
Hamburger restaurants and Chili™s restaurants. Director of Churchill 

Downs, Incorporated.     2007  
   36,989  
  .0047% 
                                                                                                                          
 (1)
(2)(3)
ELECTION OF DIRECTORS            16      
      
Shares of CompanyCommon Stock 
Beneficially Owned
on January 31, 
2016    
Name, Age and Principal Occupation Durin
g the Past Five Years
  Director
Since   
Number Percentof Class  JAMES P. HACKETT
, 60, Vice Chair and Director of Steelcase Inc., a 
manufacturer of office systems. Previously, Mr. Hackett also served as 
the Chief Executive Officer of Steelcase Inc. unti
l March 1, 2014 and its 
President until April 2013. Mr. Hackett was named interim Athletic 
Director of the University of Michigan on October 31, 2014. Trustee of 
The Northwestern Mutual Life Insu
rance Company. Di
rector of Ford 
Motor Company.
      2001  
   48,452 
 .0062% 
                                                                                                                          
      KEVIN T. KABAT, 
58, Vice Chairman of the Bancorp since September 
2012. Previously, Mr. Kabat was Chie
f Executive Officer of the Bancorp 
from April 2007 to November 2015 and President of the Bancorp from 
June 2006 through September 2012. Prior to that, he was Executive Vice 
President of the Bancorp from D
ecember 2003 thro
ugh June 2006. 
Director of Unum Group and NiSource.
      2007  
   3,423,952 
 .4358% 
                                                                                                                          
   All directors and executive officers as a Group (28 persons)
      
 7,750,170 
 .9895% 
(1)As reported to Fifth Third Bancorp by the Directors as of the date stated. Includes shares held in the name of spouses, mino
r children, certain relatives, trusts, estates and 
certain affiliated companies as to which beneficial ownership may be disclaimed. As of January 31, 2016, none of the Company™s 
current executive officers or directors 
owned any Series H Preferred Stock, Series I Preferred Stock, Series J Preferred Stock, or any Depositary Shares representing i
nterests in Series H Preferred Stock, Series I 
Preferred Stock or Series J Preferred Stock. 
(2)The amounts shown represent the total shares owned outright by such individuals together with shares which are issuable upon
 the exercise of currently exercisable (or 
exercisable within 60 days), but unexercised, stock appreciation rights. Specifically, the following individuals have the right
 to acquire the shares indicated after their 
names, upon the exercise of stock appreciation rights: Mr. Bridgeman, 500; Mr. Carmichael, 815,700; Ms. Hoover, 500 and Mr. Kab
at, 2,498,096. The aggregate number o
f shares issuable upon the exercise of currently exercisable (or exercisable within 60 days), but unexercised, stock appreciation
 rights held by the executive officers who are 
not also directors or nominees is 1,663,914. 
(3)The amounts shown do not include shares of common stock underlying outstanding restricted stock units. Directors owned the f
ollowing number of restricted stock units as 
of January 31, 2016: Nicholas K. Akins, Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Em
erson L. Brumback, B. Evan Bayh, Gary R. Heminger, Jewell D. Ho
over, Kevin T. Kabat, Michael B. 
McCallister and Marsha C. Williams, 9,883 (each); Katherine H. Blackburn, 5,260; Greg D. Carmichael, 102,302; and Hendrik G. Me
ijer, 10,042. All directors and 
executive officers as a 
group own 391,646 restricted stock units. None of these restricted stock units are expected to vest within 60 da
ys of Januar
y 31, 2016. 
(1)
(2)(3)
ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
    VOTE REQUIRED 
 Under Ohio law and the Company™s Articles of Incorporation and Code of Regulations, as long as cumulative voting is not in 
effect, in an unconteste
d election of directors (
i.e., an election where the number of candidates nominated for election to the Board of 
Directors equals the number of 
directors to be elected), those 
persons receiving a greater number 
of votes ﬁforﬂ his or her ele
ction 
than votes ﬁagainstﬂ his or her 
election will be elected as direct
ors. In the event of a contes
ted election or if cumulative vo
ting is in 
effect, the eleven nominees r
eceiving the greatest number of votes ﬁforﬂ his or
 her election shall be elected. The Company has 
also adopted provisions of its Corporate Govern
ance Guidelines stating that, as long as cumulative voting is not in effect, in an 
uncontested election of di
rectors, any nominee for 
director who receives a greater number 
of votes ﬁagainstﬂ his or her electio
n than 
votes ﬁforﬂ his or her election will promptly tender his or her resignation to the Chairman of the Board following certificatio
n of the 
shareholder vote. The Nominating and Corpor
ate Governance Committee will
 promptly consider the tendered resignation and will 
recommend to the Board whether to accept or reject the tendered re
signation no later than 60 da
ys following the date of the 
shareholders™ meeting at 
which the election occurred
. In considering wh
ether to accept or reject the 
tendered resignation, the 
Nominating and Corporate Governan
ce Committee will consid
er factors deemed relevant by the Committee members including, 
without limitation, the director™s length of service, the director™s particular qualifications and contributions to Fifth Third
, the reasons 
underlying the majority against vote (if known) and whether thes
e reasons can be cured, and comp
liance with stock exchange list
ing 
standards and the Corporate Governance Guid
elines. The Board will act on the Nominati
ng and Corporate Go
vernance Committee™s 
recommendation no later than 90 days following the date of the 
shareholders™ meeting at which th
e election occurr
ed. In conside
ring 
the Nominating and Corporate Go
vernance Committee™s recommendatio
n, the Board will consider th
e factors considered by that 
committee and such additional in
formation and factors the Boar
d believes to be relevant. 
 If any nominee(s) shall be unable to serv
e, which is not now contemplated, the proxi
es will be voted for such substitute nomine
e(s) as the Nominating and Corporate Govern
ance Committee of the Board of
 Directors recommends. Prox
ies in the form solicited 
hereby which are returned to the Company will be voted in favo
r of the eleven (11) nominees 
specified above unless otherwise 
instructed by the shareholder. Abstentions and shares not voted 
by brokers or other entities holding shares on behalf of benefi
cial owners will not be counted and will have no
 effect on the outcome of the election in 
accordance with Ohio la
w and the Company™s
 Articles of Incorporation and Code of Regulations. 
 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS A VOTE ﬁFORﬂ EACH OF THE 
 CANDIDATES FOR DIRECTOR NAMED ABOVE. 
   17 BOARD OF DIRECTORS, ITS CO
MMITTEES, MEETINGS AND FUNCTIONS  The Board of Directors of the Company met thirteen (13) times during 2015. The Company™s Board of Directors also regularly 
holds executive sessions of those members of the Board of Dir
ectors who meet the th
en current standards 
of independence. The chairman at these executive sessions is the Ch
airman of the Company™
s Board of Directors. 
 No member of the Board of Directors of
 the Company attended less than 75% of 
the aggregate meetings
 of the Board of 
Directors and all committees on which 
such director served during 2015. 
 Neither the Board nor the Nominating and Corporate Govern
ance Committee has implemented 
a formal policy regarding 
director attendance at the Annual Meeting;
 however, the Board typica
lly holds a Board meeting directly following the Annual 
Meeting. In 2015, al
l directors attended th
e Annual Meeting.  During 2015, there were six (6) committees of the Board of Directors: Audit, Human Capital and Compensation, Finance, 
Nominating and Corporate Gove
rnance, Regulatory Oversigh
t, and Risk and Compliance 
 The Audit Committee of the 
Company was established in accordance with Section 3(a)(58)(A) of the Ex
change Act and serves 
in a dual capacity as the 
Audit Committee of the Company and Fifth Third Bank. Twelve (12) meetings of this Committee were held
 during 2015. This Committee™s functions include the engagement of the independent external audit firm, reviewing with that firm
 the plans and results of the audit engagement of the Company, approving the annual audit plan and reviewing the results of the 
procedures for internal auditing, reviewing the independence of
 the independent external aud
it firm, reviewing the Company™s 
financial results and periodic SEC filings, reviewing the design 
and effectiveness of the Company™
s internal controls and simil
ar functions and approving all auditing and non-auditing services pe
rformed by its independent external audit firm. Another functi
on of 
the Audit Committee is to carry out the statutory requirements of
 a bank audit committee as prescr
ibed under applicable law. Th
e Board of Directors has adopted a written ch
arter for the Audit Committee, which may be
 found in the Corpor
ate Governance sectio
n of the Company™s website at www.53.com. 
The Audit Committee members fo
r 2015 were Emerson L. Brum
back, Nicholas K. Akins, 
Katherine B. Blackburn and Jewell D. Hoover
. Michael B. McCallister also served on
 the Audit Committee from January through 
April of 2015. All members of the Audit Committee met the inde
pendence standards of Rule 5605
(a)(2) and the audit committee 
qualifications of Rule 4350(d)(2) of the National Association of
 Securities Dealers listing standa
rds. The Board of Directors h
as determined that Nicholas K. Akins and Emerson L. Brumback
 are audit committee financial ex
perts for the Company and are 
independent as described in the preceding se
ntence. The formal report of 
the Audit Committee with resp
ect to the year 2015 is o
n page 64 herein. 
 The Finance Committee of th
e Company serves in a dual cap
acity as the Finance Committee 
of the Company and Fifth Third 
Bank. This Committee exercises, du
ring the intervals between the meetings of the 
Board of Directors, all 
the powers of the Boar
d of 
Directors of the Company and Fifth Third Bank in the management of the business, properties and affairs of the Company and Fift
h Third Bank that may be permissibly exercised by a committee th
ereof. The Finance Committee me
t five (5) times in 2015 and 
consisted of Emerson L. Brumback, James P.
 Hackett, Gary R. Heminger, Marsha C. 
Williams and Kevin Kabat. The Board of 
Directors has adopted a Finance Committee charter which may be found in the Corpor
ate Governance section of the Company™s 
website at www.53.com. 
 The Human Capital and Compensation Committee of the Company is
 comprised entirely of indepe
ndent directors. Executive 
compensation and equity plan a
llocations are determined by this Committee of the 
Board of Directors. The 
Board of Directors has
 adopted a Human Capital and Compensation 
Committee charter which may be
 found in the Corporate 
Governance section of the 
Company™s website at www.53.com. In 2015, the Human Capital 
and Compensation Committee consis
ted of Nicholas K. Akins, 
Gary R. Heminger, Michael B. McCallister, 
Hendrik G. Meijer and Marsha C. Williams. Mi
tchel D. Livingston, Ph.D., also served o
n the 
   18 BOARD OF DIRECTORS, ITS CO
MMITTEES, MEETING
S AND FUNCTIONS
    Human Capital and Compensation Committee from January thro
ugh April of 2015. The Human Capital and Compensation 
Committee met nine (9) times during 2015. The formal report of 
the Human Capital and Compensation Committee with respect to 
2015 compensation is on page 61 herein. 
 The Nominating and Corporate Go
vernance Committee of the Company comprised en
tirely of independent directors. This 
Committee develops and recomme
nds to the Board corporate gov
ernance policies and guidelines for the Company and for the 
identification and nomination of 
director and committee member 
candidates; and nominates direct
ors for election to the Board an
d appointment to committee membership. The 
Board of Directors has adopted a Nomina
ting and Corporate 
Governance Committee charter which may be found in the Corp
orate Governance section of the Company™
s website at www.53.com. In 2015, the 
Nominating and Corporate Governan
ce Committee consisted of B. Evan Bayh, Ulysse
s L. Bridgeman, Jr., Gary R. Heminger and 
Hendrik G. Meijer. The Nominating and Corporate G
overnance Committee met three 
(3) times during 2015. 
 The Risk and Compliance Committee of the 
Company serves in a dual 
capacity as the Risk and 
Compliance Committee of the 
Company and the Bank. This Committee is resp
onsible for the risk management policies 
of the Corporation™s 
global operation and oversight of its global risk management framework. The Board 
of Directors has adopted a Risk 
and Compliance Committee charter which may be found in the Corporate Gove
rnance section of the Company™s website 
at www.53.com. The 
Risk and Compliance 
Committee met eleven (11) times in 2015 and co
nsisted of five independent directors: B.
 Evan Bayh, Jorge L. Benitez, Jewell D. 
Hoover, Hendrik G. Meijer and Marsha C. Williams. Former director
 Mitchel D. Livingston, Ph.D., also served on the Risk and 
Compliance Committee from January through April of 2015. 
 The Regulatory Oversight Committee of the Company is comprise
d entirely of independent dir
ectors and serves in a dual 
capacity as the Regulatory Over
sight Committee of the Company and Fifth Third 
Bank. This Committee oversees the Company™s 
supervisory issues and en
forcement actions, if any,
 and the Company™s 
efforts to remediate them. 
The Regulatory Oversight 
Committee met eleven (11) times in 2015 and 
consisted of Nicholas K. Akins, Emerson 
L. Brumback, Jewell D. Hoover and Marsha 
C. Williams. 
   19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
The Board of Directors has adopted the Fifth Third Bancorp 
Corporate Governance Guidelines
 which may be found in the 
Corporate Governance section of the Company™
s website at www.53.com. The Board of Di
rectors has also adopted the Fifth Third 
Bancorp Code of Business Conduct and Ethics which applies to the Company™s Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, 
Controller and its other employees and may also be found in 
the Corporate Governance section of the Company™s website at 
www.53.com. 
 BOARD LEADERSHIP 
 The same person does not currently serv
e as the Company™s Chief Ex
ecutive Officer and Chairman
. The Company™s Chairman, James P. Hackett, is an independent, non-ex
ecutive director and the Comp
any also has an independent 
Lead Director, Marsha C. 
Williams. The position duty statement for the Lead Director may be
 found in the Corporate Governance Section of the Company™s 
website at www.53.com. The Board established 
this structure in order to allow the Chai
rman to provide suppo
rt and guidance to t
he Chief Executive Officer while also allowing the Board to have a separate direct
or handle governance matters and coordinate meet
ings 
of independent directors. Those decisions were based, in part, 
on the qualifications of the individuals serving in those roles 
including 
the experience of the Chairman 
as the former Chief Executive Of
ficer of a global manufacturi
ng organization and the experience 
of 
the Lead Director including her 42 years in
 finance and her service as the Chief Fina
ncial Officer of Orbitz and Equity Office 
Properties Trust as well as her service w
ith other banking organizations. The Board be
lieves that the Company™s shareholders are best served by a Board that has the fl
exibility to establish a leadersh
ip structure that fits the need
s of the Company at any partic
ular point 
in time. Under the Company™s Code of Regulations and Corporate 
Governance Guidelines, the Board 
of Directors has the authority 
to 
combine or separate the positions of Chai
rman and Chief Executive Officer as well as 
determine whether, if the positions are 
separated, the Chairman is an affiliated di
rector or an independent director. It also has the flexibility to operate without a 
Chairman or a Lead Director. 
 In light of the retirement of Mr. Hackett 
as Chairman, the Board will re-evaluate its
 leadership structure and roles under the 
guidance of its Lead Director
 and its Nominating and Corp
orate Governance Committee.  RISK MANAGEMEN
T OVERSIGHT  The role of the Board of Directors is to provide oversight to en
sure an effective enterprise risk
 management program is in plac
e, including an appropriate enterpri
se risk management framework and related gover
nance structure. The Board sets the overall risk
 appetite for the Company, in
cluding the establishment and monitoring of risk 
tolerances. The formulation of risk appetite consi
ders 
the Company™s operating capacity, which is 
represented by its available financial resources, defined as Tier 1 Capital less the
 Company™s largest capital buffer (Tier 1 Co
mmon Capital Policy Target less the Basel III
 Buffered Tier 1 Co
mmon Minimum), that sets an absolute limit on risk assumption in the Company™s annual
 and strategic plans. The Company™s risk appetite is limited b
y policy to a maximum of 95 percent of opera
ting capacity. Tolerances are the maximum amo
unt of risk applicab
le to each of the ei
ght 
specific risk categories included in the ente
rprise risk management framework. Through their oversight role, directors ensure t
hat the 
risk management processes designed and implemented under this 
framework and governance structur
e are aligned to the Board™s 
corporate strategy and are functioning as 
directed. The Board also cons
iders the optimal organizationa
l structure at both the B
oard 
and  management levels. This may include delegating responsibility
 through Board committees, mana
gement committees, the Chief 
Executive Officer and th
e Chief Risk Officer. 
 Risk management oversight and governance is provided primar
ily by the Risk and Complian
ce Committee of the Board of 
Directors and through the Enterprise Risk Management Committee, a 
management committee that reports to it. The Enterprise Risk 
Management Committee is supported by several management commi
ttees whose membership includes 
a broad cross-section of line 
of business, affiliate and support representa
tives. The Risk and Complian
ce Committee of the Board of 
Directors consists of fiv
e outside directors and has 
   20 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE     responsibility for the oversight of risk management for the Compan
y, as well as ensuring that 
risks are properly controlled, qu
antified and within the Company™s risk appetite. 
 The primary purpose of the Risk and Compliance Committee is responsibility for the risk management policies of the 
Corporation™s global operation and oversight of its global risk management framework. 
 The Risk and Compliance Committee charter outlines more specific 
responsibilities under all categories of risk. The Chief Risk 
Officer has a direct reporting relationshi
p to the Chief Executive Officer and the 
Risk and Compliance Co
mmittee and has regula
r executive sessions with the 
Risk and Compliance Committee withou
t other members of management present. In addition, the Directo
r of Credit Risk Review re
ports directly to the Risk and Compliance Committee. 
 COMMUNICATION WI
TH THE BOARD  Shareholders may communicate directly to 
the Board of Directors in writing by sendin
g a letter to the Board at: Fifth Third 
Bancorp Board of Director
s, 38 Fountain Square Plaza, MD 10A
T76, Cincinnati OH, 45263 or by a secure e-mail via the Company™s 
website at www.53.com. All communications directed to the Board 
of Directors will be received an
d processed by the Fifth Third 
Legal Department and will be transmitted to the Nominating a
nd Corporate Governance Committee without any editing or screening 
by the Legal Department. 
 The Audit Committee has also established Fifth Third™s EthicsLine
, a toll free hotline through which confidential complaints 
may be made by employees regarding: illegal or fraudulent ac
tivity; questionable accounting, internal controls or auditing matt
ers; conflicts of interest, dishonest or unethical conduct; disclosures in the Company™s SEC reports, bank regulatory filings and ot
her 
public disclosures that are not full, fair
, accurate, timely and understanda
ble; violations of the Co
mpany™s Code of Business C
onduct 
and Ethics; and/or any other violations of laws, rules or regu
lations. Complaints submitted thr
ough this process are presented 
to the 
Audit Committee on a regular, periodic basis. 
   21 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
     SHAREHOLDER COMMUNICATION WITH 
INVESTOR RELATIONS DEPARTMENT 
 Shareholders who wish to speak to a Fifth Third representative regarding their investment in Fifth Third may communicate 
directly with Fifth Third™s Investor Relations Department by 
calling 866-670-0468. In addition, shareholders may communicate in
 writing directly with the Investor Relations Department by sending a letter to 38 Foun
tain Square Plaza, MD
 1090QC, Cincinnati,
 OH
45263 or by emailing ir@53.com. You can also view information and request documents from the Investor Relations page of Fifth 
Third™s website at www.53.com. 
   22 COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
The Company™s Compensation Discussion and Analysis provides 
information concerning the co
mpensation for our executive officers. This information is set forth in the following sections: 
     
        
          
    EXECUTIVE SUMMARY 
 2015 was a transformative year in which the Company took bold steps to better navigate, manage, and anticipate industry 
change as well as risk. Our overall operating results reflected
 solid performance across each of
 our business lines, significan
t returns 
from the sale of a portion of 
our Vantiv ownership, an
d thoughtful management of our balance sheet given the uncertain pace of 
interest-rate increases. We believe we are well positioned 
for the future. Key themes of
 our performance include: 
       23  Ł Executive Summary   Ł 2015 Performance Results 
  Ł The Company™s Human Capital and Compen
sation Committee (as used in this Co
mpensation Discussion and Analysis 
Section, ﬁthe Committeeﬂ)   Ł Executive Compensation Philosoph
y and Risk Mana
gement  Ł Compensation Structure and Methodolo
gy   Ł 2015 Executive Compensation Plan Desi
gn and Award Decisions 
 Ł 2016 Executive Compensation Plan Desi
gn Chan
ges  Ł Executive Benefits and Perquisites 
  Ł Tax and Accountin
g Impact of Compensation Pro
grams  Ł Executive Ownership and Capital Accumulation 
  Ł Compensation of Named Executive Officers and Directors  Ł Potential Pa
yments Upon Termination or Chan
ge-in-Control 
 Ł Director Compensation 
 COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
     We believe it is a good governance practice 
to review and assess our compensation pr
actices and programs on an annual basis. 
We completed an annual risk assessment of
 all incentive plans in acco
rdance with guidance from banking regulators. We also 
considered the Company™s strategi
c objectives, compensation philoso
phy, regulatory guidance, risk
 culture and market practices.
 As a 
result, we made the following changes to the 2015 senior executive compensation programs to build on the progress made in the p
rior 
year in creating ris
k-balanced programs that alig
n with the business strategy: 
   Summary of Executive Compen
sation Best Practices.
 The Company™s executive 
compensation program in
cludes certain ﬁbest 
practicesﬂ such as:    Throughout this proxy statement, the individuals who served as
 the Company™s Chief Executive 
Officer (Kevin T. Kabat and 
Greg D. Carmichael) and Chief Financial Offi
cer (Tayfun Tuzun) duri
ng fiscal year 2015, 
   24     PlanFeature Key Design ChangeRationale
Annual Incentive Plan
 Performance 
Metric Replaced Return on 
Tangible Common Equity 
(ROTCE) with Return on 
Risk-Weighted Assets (RORWA) as a core 
funding metric
   RORWA had been used as a modifier. 

RORWA will provide greater focus in the core metrics on balance sheet effectiveness 
and capital management while managing 
riskLong-Term In
centive Plan Award Type 
Mix Reduced the use of Stock 

Appreciation Rights from 
25% to 15% of the award 
mix; Performance Share Awards increased from 
35% to 45% and Restricted 
Stock remained at 40%
Reflects regulatory guidance and 
preference to reduce the use of options or 
option-like vehicles to mitigate risk that 
might otherwise be a
ssociated with such 
awards; also reflects changing market 
practice   Increases performance orientation of the 

program
   Performance 
metric for 
Performance 
Share Awards Replaced Total Shareholder 

Return (TSR) with Return 
on Average Equity 
(ROAE), as adjusted, 
relative to peer banks as the 
performance metric used
   ROAE is believed to better align the plan 

with long-term shareholder value creation 
and is indicative of management™s 
effectiveness in ex
ecuting value-added 
tactics and strategies to achieve optimal 
core performance
 Performance 

Payout Grid for 
Performance 
Share Awards   Lowered the threshold from 

33 percentile to 25 
percentile
Revised to better align with competitive 
practice     Pa
ying for performance
     Incorporatin
g risk balancin
g features into our compensation pro
grams     Includin
g double-tri
gger change-in-control provisions
     Providin
g no excise tax 
gross-ups to Executive Officers
     Maintainin
g share ownership 
guidelines and share retention policies
     Prohibitin
g speculative tradin
g and hedging strategies by Executive Officers     Utilizin
g an independent compensation consultant hired and overseen b
y the Committee
      Providin
g minimal perquisites
 rdth
COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
    as well as certain other individuals includ
ed in the Summary Compensation Table on pa
ge 46 (Lars C. Anderson, Executive Vice 
President and Chief Operating Of
ficer, Timothy N. Spence,
 Executive Vice President and Chief 
Strategy Officer, Frank R. Forrest
, Executive Vice President and Chie
f Risk Officer, and Daniel T. 
Poston, former Executive Vice Pr
esident and Chief Strategy and 
Administrative Officer), are referred to herein as both the ﬁN
amed Executive Officersﬂ and ﬁNEOsﬂ. 
 Effective November 1, 2015, Mr. Kabat retired from his role as
 Chief Executive Officer. Mr. Kaba
t will remain an employee of 
the Company and continue to hold hi
s position as Vice Chairman of the 
Board of Directors until April 2016. 
 Non-Binding Advisory Say on Pay Proposal.
 In 2015, our shareholders approved a non-binding advisory say-on-pay proposal 
at our 2015 Annual Meeting with over 94% of the votes cast voting in favor of that proposal. The Committee believes the results
 of 
the shareholder vote indicate strong support among shareholders for our pay-for-performance approach. We intend to continue to 
monitor our current compensation 
structure and future vote
s to ensure that there is continued support for our pay programs amon
g our 
shareholders. 
 2015 PERFORMANCE RESULTS 
 Consistent with our practice used in settin
g goals and evaluating results, in addition to showing reported results, below we al
so show the adjusted results. Adjust
ed results have been adjusted 
for certain events to reflect co
re financial performance in the 
plan year for annual incentive plan funding purposes: 
               25  Ł The reported earnings per share (ﬁEPSﬂ) were $2.01. The adju
sted EPS were $1.65, which was 99% of our financial plan. 
EPS is a commonl
y used measure for assessin
g our abilit
y to 
generate earnings for our shareholders. 
  Ł The reported return on ris
k-weighted assets (ﬁRORWAﬂ) was $1.35%. The adjusted RORWA was 1.10%. RORWA is a 
measure of adjusted net income
 available to common shareholders as a pe
rcent of average risk
-weighted assets and 
excludes certain one-time items to
 arrive at core earnings co
nsistent with earnings per sh
are. Adjusted RORWA results 
were 98% of our financial plan. 
 Ł The reported efficiency ratio was 57.6%. The adjusted ratio was 61.8%, which was slightly better than the financial plan. 
The efficiency ratio is a measure of expenses as a percentage
 of revenue, and reflects how effective we are at generating 
revenue while mana
ging expenses.  *One-time adjustments excluded from EPS, RORWA and Efficiency Ratio include Vantiv warrant valuation adjustments, gain on sale 
of Vantiv shares, gain on Vantiv 
warrant actions, losses associated with Visa total return swap, treasury-related securities gains/losses, impact of market inte
rest rates relative to expectations at the time of 
plan design, net gain on TDR sale, branch impairment charges, certain litigation-related items and other one-time adjustments d
escribed in our Annual Report on Form 10-
K. COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
     In addition to these key financial perfor
mance measures, we had solid performance 
on other measures 
considered by the 
Committee in assessing 
annual performance: 
   THE COMPANY™S HUM
AN CAPITAL AND COMP
ENSATION COMMITTEE  The Committee™s Role. The Committee is composed of independent directors and is responsible for establishing, implementing 
and monitoring the administration of comp
ensation and benefits programs in acco
rdance with the Company™s compensation 
philosophy and strategy and approving executive compensation and eq
uity plan awards. The Committ
ee focuses on the attraction an
d retention of key executives and, when ma
king decisions, considers 
the Company™s compensation philosophy, the achievement of 
business goals set by the Company, relevant peer data, recomme
ndations made by the Chief Execu
tive Officer, and the advice of 
Compensation Advisory Partners LLC (ﬁCAPﬂ), 
an external executive compensation consulting firm with financial services industry
 expertise.  The Committee seeks to establish ﬁTotal Rewardsﬂ for the Company™
s executive officers that are fa
ir, reasonable, risk-balanced and competitive. The Total Rewards progra
m includes base salary, annual cash incentiv
e compensation, long
-term equity-based 
incentive compensation, benefits, and certain perquisites. Generall
y, the types of compensation and benefits paid to the Named 
Executive Officers are similar to those prov
ided to other officer
s of the Company. 
 The Committee has taken the following 
steps to ensure that it effectiv
ely carries out its responsibilities: 
         
      26 Performance Modifier Measures
  Financial Plan
  Final Results
Net Charge-Offs   .41%  .48%Non-Performin
g Assets
   .71%  .70%Capital Levels
  Meet Required Regulatory 
Minimum and Internal Target 
Levels  ExceededAvailable Liquidit
y   $20B
  $29.7B
 Ł Engaged CAP, a respected external comp
ensation consultant with expertise in 
executive compensation, to provide the 
Committee with relevant market data and 
to advise the Committee on alternativ
es when making compensation decisions 
for the Named Executive Officers and on 
the recommendations being made by th
e Company™s Management for executive officers other than the Named Executive Officers. In addition to the support provided by CAP, employees who have 
significant compensation experience in the Company™s Human Capital division provide support, data, and analysis to the 
Committee 
  Ł Conducted an annual review 
of the Committee charter to
 ensure that it effectivel
y reflects the Committee™s responsibilities 
 Ł Provided oversight of incentive and variable compensation practices and balanced ris
k-taking across the Company with the 
Compensation Risk Oversight Committee   Ł Conducted an annual review of the Comp
any™s compensation philosophy to ensure 
that it remains appropriate given the 
Company™s strate
gic ob
jectives  Ł Conducted an annual review of the Compan
y™s Compensation Peer Group 
 Ł Reviewed all compensation co
mponents for the Company™s 
Chief Executive Officer, Chief 
Financial Officer, and other 
Named Executive Officers, incorporatin
g a tally sheet and pa
y-fo
r-performance sensitivity analysis for each executive 
COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
            
        Role of Executive Officers in
 Compensation Decisions
. The Chief Executive Officer annua
lly reviews the performance of each 
of the other Named Executive Officers, along with a risk perfor
mance assessment. Based on this 
review, the Chief Executive Officer 
makes compensation recommendations to the 
Committee, including recommendations for sala
ry adjustments, annual cash incentives, 
and long-term equity-based incentive awards. In addition, the Ch
ief Executive Officer and other me
mbers of Management annually 
assess performance for other executive o
fficers and make compensation recommendations to the Committee. Although the 
Committee considers these recommendations alo
ng with data provided by its other advisors, it retains full discretion to set all
 compensation for the Company™s 
executive officers. The 
Committee works with its consultant to determine compensation for the 
Chief Executive Officer and the Chie
f Executive Officer has no input into his own award determinations. 
 Additionally, the Chief Risk Officer revi
ews and evaluates with the 
Committee all executive of
ficer and employee incentive compensation plans. The purpose of the revi
ew is to ensure that the 
Company™s incentive compensati
on plans do not incent or pos
e unnecessary or excessive risks to the Company. 
 The Role of the Third Part
y Compensation Consultant.The Committee uses the services of 
an outside executive compensation consultant, CAP, to provide guid
ance and advice to the Committee on 
all matters covered by its char
ter. This consultant was dir
ectly selected and engaged by the Committee to provide a broad set of
 services pertaining to the 
compensation of the Company™s 
executives. 
 The consultant fulfills the following responsibilities:
     
      27  Ł Evaluated the execution of the Company™s pay-fo
r-performance philosophy to
 ensure that the act
ual award decisions 
resulted in ali
gnment of relative pa
y and relative performance compared
 to the Compensation Peer Group 
  Ł Scheduled an executive session prior to the conclusion of the Committee meetings, without members of management, for 
the purpose of discussing decisions related to the Chief Ex
ecutive Officer™s performance, goal-setting, compensation 
levels, and other items deemed important b
y the Committee 
 Ł Executed the succession plan for Mr. Kabat and updated th
e succession profile based on Mr. Carmichael succeeding 
Mr. Kabat as Chief Executive Officer 
  Ł Reviewed and approved new hire compensatio
n packages, ensuring that offers were appropriate to the strategic needs of 
each position and the comp
ensation required to attract the selected candidate to the role 
 Ł Completed an annual self-evaluation of the Committee™s effectiveness 
 Ł Completed an annual review of the external compensation cons
ultant™s performance to ensu
re the Committee receives the 
appropriate resources and counsel  Ł Reviewed jointly with the Risk and Co
mpliance Committee of the Board, the Co
mpany™s risk assessm
ent of executive and 
employee incentive plans with the Chief Ri
sk Officer to ensure that the Compan
y™s compensation design does not incent 
unnecessar
y risk-takin
g behavior 
 Ł Worked to meet 
expectations and guidance from our bankin
g re
gulators 
 Ł Reviews the Company™s compensation philosoph
y and competitive positionin
g for reasonableness and appropriateness 
 Ł Annuall
y reviews the Committee™s ch
arter and recommends chan
ges as appropriate 
 Ł Reviews the Committee™s a
gendas and supportin
g materials in advance of each meetin
g  Ł Advises the Committee on mana
gement proposals, as requested 
COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
           
        During 2015, CAP was specifically engaged on the following projects:
   
            
    The Company does not engage CAP for any additional services outside of executive compensation consulting. 
 The Committee believes that the third pa
rty services of CAP are objective and 
unbiased. The Committee conducted an 
assessment of potential conflicts of interest of CAP and no conf
licts of interest relating to CAP™s services were identified by
 the Committee. 
 The Committee™s Considerations. The Committee considers both the aggregate am
ounts and mix of an ex
ecutive officer™s Total 
Direct Compensation (base 
salary, annual cash incentive compensation, and long-t
erm equity-based incentive compensation) when 
making decisions. In 2015, the Committee asse
ssed Total Direct Compensation relative to
 competitive market data in its November
 meeting, discussed recommendations for 
   28  Ł Reviews information from a peer group of publicly traded banking and financial institutions (collectively the 
ﬁCompensation Peer Groupﬂ) and surve
y data for competitive comparisons 
 Ł Annually reviews the Company™s executive compensation program
s and advises the Committee on
 the design of incentive 
plans or practices that mi
ght be changed to improve the effectiven
ess of its compensation pro
gram   Ł Annually reviews competitive pay practices
 of the Compensation Peer Group for it
s Boards of Directors and recommends 
to the Committee chan
ges required to pa
y the Compan
y™s Board of Directors in
 a competitive fashion 
  Ł Reviews, analyzes, and summarizes surve
y data on executive pa
y practices and amo
unts that come before the Committee 
 Ł Attends all of the Committee meetin
gs, including executive sessions with onl
y the Committee members as requested 
 Ł Advises the Committee on potential practices
 for Board governance of executive comp
ensation as well as areas of concern 
and risk in the Compan
y™s pro
grams 
  Ł Undertakes special projects at the reques
t of the Committee, including Institutio
nal Shareholder Services (ﬁISSﬂ) test 
simulation   Ł Advised the Committee with respect to 
the appropriateness of compensation st
ructure and actual amounts paid to the 
Company™s executive officers 
given the Compan
y™s compensation philosoph
y, size, and Compensa
tion Peer Group 
 Ł Activel
y participated in the review and desi
gn of all executive
 compensation pro
grams  Ł Advised on the appropriaten
ess of executive performance 
goals and metrics 
 Ł Reviewed and advised on
 the compensation pro
gram for the Compan
y™s Board of Directors 
  Ł Reviewed the Compan
y™s risk assessment of executive and emplo
yee incentive plans 
 Ł Advised the Committee on market and re
gulator
y trends and developments 
 Ł Provided recommendations to the 
Committee on the compensation of
 the Chief Executive Officer 
  Ł Assessed the relationship between
 the Chief Executive Office
r™s compensation and perfor
mance on a realizable pa
y basis  Ł Reviewed the 2015 Compen
sation Discussion and Anal
ysis and related sections for the prox
y statement  COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
    executive compensation in its January meeting, and approved final me
rit, annual cash incentive aw
ards (our Variable Compensatio
n Plan; ﬁVCPﬂ), and final long-t
erm incentive recommendations at its February meeting. 
 Based on its most recent review of the 
competitive data, the Committee has determ
ined that the compensation structure for executive officers is effective and appropria
te. The structure reflects the Company™s co
mpensation philosophy, in that its ince
ntive 
payout ranges are aligned with 
the competitive market data, it has appropriate leverage to ensure a strong linkage between 
compensation, risk outcomes, and performance,
 and it drives rewards based on the most relevant performance measures for the 
Company and shareholders. Also based on this review, the Commit
tee determined that the Company™
s aggregate 2015 Total Rewards 
packages (and potential payouts in the se
verance and change-in-control 
scenarios where applicable) 
for its Named Executive Offi
cers are reasonable, consistent with in
dustry practices, and not excessive. 
 The Committee believes that the relative
 difference between the co
mpensation of the Chief Ex
ecutive Officer and the 
compensation of the Company™s ot
her executive officers is consiste
nt with such differences found in the Co
mpany™s Compensation Peer Group and external reference labor 
market. Further, the Committ
ee has reviewed the internal relationships between the 
compensation for the Chief Executive Of
ficer and for other 
executive officers and has deemed
 them to be appropriate. 
 The remainder of this report outlines the Company™s compensation philosophy and executive compensation structure, and 
provides an analysis of compensation decisions made during 2015. The discussion of 2015 will focus primarily on the compensatio
n structure established for our Named Executive Officers. 
 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION PHILOSOPHY AND RISK MANAGEMENT 
 Compensation Philosophy.
 The Company endeavors to 
attract and retain the best people in 
the financial services industry, and 
motivate them to fulfill the Comp
any™s vision of becoming the one bank that peopl
e most value and trust. We intend to accomplis
h this in the way that we consider our shar
eholders™ long-term interests, by establishing compensation programs that reward our p
eople for delivering products our customers highly value, and avoiding excessive risk. Our compensation philosophy comprises the 
following guiding principles: 
             In order to drive our business strategy and human capital plan, 
compensation must be competitive to attract and retain essentia
l talent, reward high performance, and be internally equitable. 
In addition, the Company is co
mmitted to making compensation 
decisions that are fiscally responsible, su
ch that we carefully consid
er those decisions™ expected return on investment. Our ex
pected total compensation opportunities generally reflect the median pay levels of our peer group with variations based on specific ta
lent 
needs, experience and other internal factors.
 We believe that actual total compensation
 should vary with the performance of the
 organization, such that outstanding performa
nce results in above market 
compensation. Since a majority
 of compensation is tied 
to performance outcomes, actual total compensatio
n will vary within a competitive range. 
 Compensation Risk Management.
 The above strategic principles
 include the integration of sound risk management in all 
aspects of our compensation programs, particular
ly incentive compensation. We believe it is 
   29  Ł Provide competitive compensation opportunities in order to attr
act and retain executive talent that will drive the business 
strategy   Ł Effectively manage risk within incentive pro
grams desi
gned to pa
y for performance 
 Ł Ali
gn compensation with lon
g-term shareholder interests 
 Ł Provide stron
g oversi
ght of executive pa
y   Ł Conduct recurrin
g processes that ensure strate
gic and fiscal soundness alon
g with balanced risk takin
g   Ł Communicate for understanding and transparency COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
     critical to bring a multi
-faceted strategy toward mitigating ri
sk in incentive plans. We inco
rporate formulaic and discretionar
y risk-
balancing mechanisms, which outlin
e specific metrics for modifying payouts to di
scourage unnecessary or 
imprudent risk-taking actions.  Successful risk management requires strong oversight on pay for senior executives, given their role in the Company™s strategic 
direction. For this reason, seni
or executives™ pay includes a heavy focus on lo
ng-term incentives. This 
long-term focus facilitates collaboration among business units, ownership in the Company, and a focus on shareholder goals. 
 To execute the risk mitigation strategies, we conduct yearly revi
ew processes, which are document
ed and incorporate input from Finance, Human Resources, Risk Management, and 
business leaders. Thes
e processes include: 
   As a financial institution that is regulated by federal and state banking authorities, the Company has gone through a rigorous 
process over the past few years 
to ensure that our compensation programs for our executives do not provide incentives to take 
excessive risks that could have material 
adverse impact on the Company. Our comp
ensation program for our Named Executive 
Officers has several features that help to
 address potential co
ncerns about risk:            
  Finally, we believe it is critical that 
our people clearly understand ho
w they are rewarded to ensu
re that pay facilitates the 
appropriate strategic and risk aw
areness behaviors. Because of this, we provid
e ongoing compensation co
mmunication and education.   30 Processes
 PurposeMarket Reviews  Human Resources uses peer benchmark data to en
sure that pay programs 
are competitive in the 
financial services industr
yIncentive Plan Reviews
  Senior business leaders ensure that incentive plans support the business strate
gyRisk Reviews
  Senior risk and credit leaders determine whether 
incentive plans support the 
Company™s risk culture 
and the incentive compen
sation risk framewor
kFinancial Reviews  Senior executives, including the Chief Executive Officer, confirm that
 the incentive plans are fiscally 
sound, risk ali
gned, and successfull
y contribute to shareholder value
Board Reviews
  Independent directors, serving on the Human Capital and Compensation Committee and Risk and 
Compliance Committee, assess the stra
tegic, risk, and fiscal soundn
ess of compensation plans and 
ensure that the
y are aligned with the Compan
y™s compensation philosoph
y Ł Downward discretionary pay adjustment based on risk performance assessment which includes results of examinations by 
our bankin
g re
gulators, internal examinations b
y our audit staff, and a qualitative review b
y the Chief Risk Officer  Ł Caps on the maximum pa
yment under our annual cash incentive plan and our performance share plan   Ł Balanced mix of shor
t-term, medium-term, and lon
g-term compensation  Ł Forfeiture provisions related to material risk events 
 Ł Stock ownership and retention 
guidelines 
  Ł Company claw back ri
ghts (as outlined under Other Lon
g-term Equit
y-based Plan Provisions on pa
ge 41  COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
    In January 2015, the Committee, in conjunction with the Risk
 and Compliance Committee, revi
ewed our executi
ve and other 
incentive programs to determine if their design and/or metrics encourage unnecessary a
nd or material risk taking. The Committee
 believes, based on the provisions and actions described above, that they do not. 
 COMPENSATION STRUCTURE AND METHODOLOGY 
 Compensation Structure
. The compensation structure (i.e., each element of pay described belo
w and the respective amounts for 
each element) for executive officers is revi
ewed annually. When determining the compensation structur
e, the following items are considered:
         Benchmarking Methodology.
 In making compensation decisi
ons, the Committee compares 
Company performance and each 
element of executive officers Total Direct
 Compensation with the Compensation Peer
 Group. The Committee refers to this 
Compensation Peer Group for both compensation and performance-
related benchmarking. Financial performance data is prepared 
either by the Committee™s external
 compensation consultant or by 
the Company, using publicly available data from public filings
. Compensation data is generally prepared by
 the Committee™s external 
compensation consultants, us
ing proprietary compensation 
databases and publicly available data from proxy statements. The 
Committee™s external compensati
on consultant reviews all finan
cial and/or compensation data that 
is prepared by the Company a
nd provided to the Committee. 
 The Compensation Peer Group consists of
 companies with which the Committee belie
ves the Company competes for talent and 
for stockholder investment, and which are similar in asset size and business mix. The following 12 companies were identified by
 the Committee as the 2015 Comp
ensation Peer Group: 
   The Committee annually reviews the Compensation Peer Group an
d considers changes to the Co
mpensation Peer Group deemed 
necessary to ensure that the nature and si
ze of the organizations continue to be appr
opriate. Based on th
e Committee™s evaluati
on of 
the Compensation Peer Group for 2
015 there were no changes from the prior year. However, in making decisions on pay levels for 
the CEO and other senior executives, the Committee regularly looks at side by side data for the Compensation Peer Group includi
ng 
and excluding Wells Fargo and 
   31  Ł The most recent and prior years™comparat
ive proxy statement and survey data fo
r similar jobs among the Compensation 
Peer Group   Ł The 25th percentile, median (i.e
., 50th percentile), and 75th percentile peer data for each
 element of co
mpensation (base salary, target annual cash incentive compen
sation, and target long-term equity-bas
ed incentive compensation, as well as 
the resultin
g Total Direct Compensation) 
  Ł The ability to provide market 
median (i.e., 50th percentile) Total Cash Compensation (i.e., base salary plus annual cash 
incentive compensation) for 50th percentile performance relative to the Compensation Peer Group 
  Ł The ability to provide upper quartile Total Cash Compensati
on for upper quartile performance (i.e., 75th percentile or 
better performance relative to th
e Compensation Peer Group) 
BB&T Corporation
  The PNC Financial Services Group, Inc.
Capital One Financial Corporation
  Regions Financial Corporation
Comerica Incorporated  SunTrust Banks, Inc.
Huntin
gton Bancshares
 Incorporated U.S. Bancorp
KeyCorp  Wells Far
go & Compan
yM&T Bank Corporation
  Zions Bancorporation
COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
     Capital One, to ensure that the median pa
y levels of the Compensation P
eer Group are not biased upward due to pay levels at the
se companies. The Company™s assets were in ap
proximately the 48th percentile of its 2015 Compensation Peer Group as of September 
2015. 
 Pay for Performance.
 Under the compensation structure, annual cash an
d long-term incentives comprise the majority of 
executive officers™ Total Direct Compensati
on. The actual amounts realized by executiv
e officers under these incentive plans va
ry based on the performance of the Company and individual performance. Company performance is evaluated from a variety of 
perspectives, including:              Annual cash incentive compensati
on awards to executive officers 
are approved from a pool f
unded on the basis of Company 
performance relative to the specific goals de
scribed below. This pool of available 
compensation awards is allocated to each 
participant based on qualitative assessments of individual perfor
mance against a set of stated objectives and individual risk 
assessment. Long-term equity-based incenti
ve compensation awards are also made to
 each participant ba
sed on qualitative 
assessments of individual perfor
mance against a set of stated objectives and in
dividual risk assessment.
 Long-term equity-based
 incentive compensation awards derive value 
based on shareholder return and stock pri
ce appreciation. Amounts realizable from pr
ior 
compensation awards do no
t influence decisions relative to future awards. 
 Pay Elements and Pay Mix.
 Under the pay-for-performance compensation structure, compensation is delivered through three 
primary elements:          32  Ł Absolute performance and performance relative to peers 
 Ł Return measures includin
g return on avera
ge equity  Ł Growth in earnings per share 
 Ł Efficiency ratio 
  Ł Stock price 
growth 
  Ł Risk performance assessment 
 Ł Base Salary   Ł Annual Cash Incentive (delivered throu
gh the Variable Compensation Plan) 
 Ł Long-term Incentives 
 COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
    The 2015 total compensation includ
ed a mix of cash and equity awards. The Compan
y typically pays base salary and the annual 
incentive compensation in cash. All long-ter
m equity-based incentive comp
ensation awards are paid in
 shares of the Company™s 
common stock. Generally, our Named Executive Officers have approximately 50% or more of their total compensation delivered in 
the form of equity-based
 compensation. The charts below sh
ow the mix between cash and equity for our Chief Executive Officer an
d average pay mix for our other Named Executive 
Officers. For the purposes of
 this analysis, we are using Mr. Carmichael as CEO a
nd 
Messrs. Tuzun, Anderson, Spence and Forrest as the NEOs. 
     Tally Sheet. The Company annually prepares a ta
lly sheet of all compensation and pot
ential payouts for 
the Committee™s use when considering compensa
tion matters. The Committee revi
ews all components of the Compa
ny™s Chief Executive Officer, Chief 
Financial Officer, and the other Named Execu
tive Officers™ compen
sation, including: 
           
    The tally sheet review of 2015
 compensation components has been moved from February 2016 to June 2016. At that time, the 
Committee will review all the above components and the associated 
dollar amounts for 2015 compensation. Moving this review to 
June will allow for a more focused look at each executive™s
 compensation components, sepa
rate from when annual pay 
recommendations are being made. Also at this time the Committee 
will review a sensitivity analysis of the relationship between 
each NEO™s 2015 Total Direct Compensation and the Company™s performance; both stock price performance and Company results. 
 Determinations.
 The Committee considers several fact
ors and objectives relevant to each
 specific program when determining 
compensation, including a risk 
performance assessment. The Committee also contem
plates each award™s impact on the Total Direct 
Compensation package. Total Direct Compensation opportunities are 
   33 (1)The percentages reflect the Named Executive Office
r™s base salary as of 12/31/2015, actual annual incentive award the executive earned for 2015 performance under the 
Annual Incentive Plan, and target long-term incentive. Actual long-term incentive awards for 2015 performance may vary from tar
get and will be approved by the 
Committee in Februar
y 2016. 
 Ł Base salar
y   Ł Annual cash incentive compensation 
  Ł Long-term equity-
based incentive compensation 
  Ł Accumulated, realized, and unrealized equity award gains 
 Ł The dollar value to the executi
ve and cost to the Compan
y of all perquisites and other personal benefits 
  Ł The earnings and accumulated pa
yout obli
gations under the Compan
y™s nonqualified deferred compensation plan 
 Ł Several potential termination scenarios, includin
g change-in-control where applicable 
COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
     intended to target the median (i.e., 50th percentile) of the relevant market data, and actual compensation (both amount and mix
) for 
executives varies based on their performance,
 prior experience, and other pertinent factors. In addition, for purposes of attra
cting and 
retaining key executives, the Committee may determine that an 
additional award, an above-median sign-on package and/or an 
incentive guarantee for a new hire, or a To
tal Direct Compensation package that is above market 
median is appropriate.  2015 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN DESIGN AND AWARD DECISIONS 
 Base Salary
. The Committee reviews individual base 
salaries of the Company™
s executive officers annual
ly; and/or at the time 
of promotion or hire, as applicable. The ob
jectives of the Company™s base salary progr
am are to provide salaries at a level tha
t allows the Company to attr
act and retain qualified executives an
d to recognize and rewa
rd individual performance. The following items 
are considered when determining base salary levels: 
         Determination of Base Salary.
 Salary increases, if any, are based on the Co
mpany™s overall performa
nce and the executive™s 
attainment of individual objectives during the preceding year in the context of competitive market data. In establishing 2015 
compensation levels for Named Executive Offi
cers, the Committee was guided
 by these principles and made
 base salary adjustments
 ranging from 0% to 6% versus 2014 salary levels for the NEOs
. Increases were driven by the ma
rket for equivalent executive positions among peers and subjective evaluation of the individua
l™s responsibilities, tenure, and overall contribution to the C
ompany.
 2015 Annual Cash Incentive Compensation Plan Design
. The annual cash incentiv
e compensation program™s objective is to 
reward executives for corporate, business unit, and/or individual 
performance. Each year, we review and update our VCP program 
to 
ensure alignment with our business strategy, regulatory guidance and the external market. For 2015, the three primary core fund
ing 
measures were: 
     
  It is the view of the Committee 
that core funding measures with
in the VCP program provide execu
tives with balanced incentives 
to increase the absolute level of earnings, 
while also ensuring that shar
eholders capital is used ef
ficiently to generate compe
titive 
returns. The efficiency
 ratio is useful as a complementary measure as it pr
ovides an assessment of the 
cost efficiency of the 
Company™s operations. 
 In addition to the primary fundin
g measures, there are four fundin
g modifier metrics that the Comm
ittee considers to adjust the
 calculated pool funding up or down, as described in more detail below: 
     
      34  Ł Market data provided b
y the Compan
y™s external compensation consultant 
 Ł The executive officer™s experience, scope of responsibili
ties, performance, and potential 
 Ł Internal equity in relation to other 
executive officers with similar levels of
 experience, scope of responsibilities, performance, and potential 
  Ł Other relevant information, which ma
y include federal pro
grams, re
gulator
y requirements, etc. 
  1.Earnin
gs Per Share vs. Plan: 50% wei
ght 
 2.Return on Ris
k-Wei
ghted Assets vs. Plan: 25% wei
ght  3.Efficienc
y Ratio vs. Plan: 25% wei
ght 
 Ł Net Charge-Offs   Ł Non-Performin
g Assets 
  Ł Capital Levels 
  Ł Available liquidit
y  COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
    The Committee retains discretion to adjust pool funding downward based on other factors as well. 
 For 2015, the only change made to the VCP program compared to 2014 was to remove return on risk-weighted assets 
(RORWA) from the funding modifiers and use it as a core funding 
metric, replacing return on tangible common equity (ROTCE). 
RORWA provides the appropriate focus on bala
nce sheet effectiveness and capital management while managing risk. Consistent with
 our prior practice used in setting goals and evaluating performance,
 results for RORWA will be adju
sted for certain events to r
eflect core financial performance in the plan year
 for annual incentive plan funding purposes. 
 VCP Performance Goals.
 The financial plan approved by th
e Board of Directors in
cludes specific target levels for each of the 
measures that are shown below. 
Actual performance against these targets is consid
ered, in addition to the four funding modifier
s, when determining the available funding for all participants of th
e VCP. The Committee set the 2015
 performance metrics to exclu
de certain non-recurring items not in
cluded in the Company™s financia
l plan and excluded those item
s when determining the adjusted Company performance results. The goals unde
r the VCP were scaled to represent four 
quartiles of performa
nce. Each quartile 
contains a performance level range, a score, a score range and a funding pool range. 
   To determine the VCP fundi
ng pool, each performance measure is reviewed to
 determine the performa
nce quartile that was 
achieved and the associated score is assign
ed. The overall funding score 
represents the sum of the we
ighted average score for e
ach performance measure. The overall funding sc
ore is compared to the quartile score rang
es to determine the funding pool range. Th
e NEOs are included in the senior
 executive pool, which includes 
all senior executives designated as Category 1 in accordance with
 the 
Federal Reserve™s Interagency Guidance 
on sound incentive comp
ensation practices.  As mentioned in the above Plan Design section, the Committ
ee may use the funding modifiers 
to increase or decrease the 
funding score. The maximum increase is 0.6 points; however, downw
ard discretion can be made in any amount deemed appropriate. 
These measures are outlined below: 
     35 Performance 
Measures
 Wei
ght Company Performance Levels
 2015 FinalResults 
(Adjusted)
  BelowThresholdQuartile 1
 Score: 1 Quartile 2
Score: 2Quartile 3
Score: 3 Quartile 4
 Score: 4
  EPS
  50%
 <$1.50
$1.50 
Œ $1.58
$1.59 
Œ$1.67
$1.68 
Œ$1.76
 $1.77 
Œ >$1.85  $1.65     
RORWA
  25%
 < 0.92%
0.92% Œ 1.02%
1.03% Œ1.12%
1.13% Œ1.22%
 1.23% 
Œ >1.32%    1.10% 
Efficiency Ratio  25%
 > 64.9%64.9% Œ 63.4%
63.3% Œ61.9%
61.8% Œ60.4%
 60.3% 
Œ <58.9% 61.8% Score Range    0< 1.5
>1.5 < 2.5
>2.5 <
3.0 > 3.0 Œ < 4.0
 Fundin
g Pool Ran
ges   $0$6.5M$9.15M
$12.8M
 $15.6M
 Performance Modifier Measures
 Target Goal
  2015Final ResultsNet Charge-Offs  .41%  .48%Non-Performin
g Assets
  .71%  .70%Capital Levels
  Meet Required Re
gulator
y Levels  ExceedAvailable Liquidit
y  $20B
  $29.7B
COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
     Determination of VCP Awards
. As described in the VCP Performance Goals s
ection, to determine th
e VCP funding pool, each 
performance measure is reviewed to determine the performance quar
tile that was achieved and the associated score is assigned. T
he overall funding score represents the sum of
 the weighted average score for each perf
ormance measure. The overall funding score 
is compared to the quartile score ranges to determine the funding 
pool range. For 2015, the overall funding score was a 2.25, resu
lting in
a pool of up to $9.15 million for senior executives. The pool fu
nding calculation, based on the adjusted primary metrics, produ
ced a VCP pool of up to 58% of the maximum incentive opportunity of th
e Named Executive Officers. This
 funding level reflects that th
e Company™s results on two of the performance metrics relative to 
our financial plan fell within the second quartile, and results
 on one 
of the performance metrics fell within the third quartile. Addi
tionally, the Committee considered
 the four funding modifiers an
d determined that, as a result of the strong
 performance on three of the four funding modifiers, an upward adjustment of .30 woul
d be made. The funding modifier adjustment resulted in a final funding score of 2.55. This moved the pool funding to Quartile 3 (up 
to 
$12.8 million). The table below shows the calculation for the 2015 pool: 
   When making the final determination of 
awards, not to exceed $12.8 
million or 82% of 
the maximum pool, 
the Committee had 
the benefit of information relating to market median and market
 75 percentile compensation levels and 2015 Company financial 
performance. The Committee consid
ered that results were slightly better than the goals established in our financial plan. While
 a pool 
of $12.8 million was available, considerin
g actual performance the Committee thought it appropriate to make final award decisio
ns of 
approximately 80% of the maximum pool. 
   36 Performance Measures
 Score Weight Weighted Score (Score x Weight)
 EPS
  2 50%
 1.00
RORWA
  2 25%
 .50Efficiency Ratio  3 25%
 .75Core Funding Score  2.25 Core Funding Pool Ran
ge    <$9.15M (Quartile 2)
Fundin
g Modifier Score Ad
justment    .30Final Funding Score
    2.55
Final Pool Ran
ge    <12.8M (Quartile 3)thCOMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
    After considering each individual™s qu
alitative performance assessment descri
bed below, overall Company financial 
performance, each individual™s risk performance assessment, mark
et compensation levels, and th
at several executives who were 
either promoted or newly hired had their VCP payments prorated or guaranteed for 2015, the Committee approved a VCP award of 
58% of the Chief Executive Officer™s indi
vidual maximum for the Chie
f Executive Officer and VCP aw
ards ranging from 23% to 
84% of their individual maximums for the other NEOs. 
     VCP payments for Messrs. Carmichael and Spence were prorated for time served in their new roles. The VCP payment for Mr. Anders
on was guaranteed as part of his new hire 
offer. 
 2015 Long-term Equity-based Incentive Compensation Plan Design.
 The objective of the long-t
erm equity-based incentive 
program is to align executives™ interests with shareholders™ 
interests, facilitate share owne
rship among Named Executive Office
rs, 
and to link rewards with the long-term perfor
mance of the Company. Target
 award levels are established at the beginning of the 
year for each executive officer based on market me
dian compensation for each pos
ition. Award levels are not
 automatically made at ta
rget. 
The actual award levels are based on Company performance and th
e Committee may include qualitati
ve assessments of individual 
performance of each Named Executiv
e Officer in areas such as: 
         
      37  Ł The Company™s revenue and expense results 
  Ł Division™s revenue and expenses vs. bud
get   Ł Internal and external customer service levels 
  Ł Performance relative to the Compan
y™s strate
gic initiatives 
 Ł Results related to specific individual responsibilities 
 Ł Results related to specific in
dividual risk assessments 
COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
     The Company currently employs three types of long-term equity
-based incentive compensation
 awards: stock-settled stock 
appreciation rights (ﬁSARsﬂ), rest
ricted stock, and performance sh
ares. The mix of long-term equ
ity-based incentive compensatio
n awards for its executive officers was reviewed in 2015 to ensure that it eff
ectively supported the Co
mpany™s objectives of:
             The Committee believes that a portion of 
the long-term equity-based incentive compensation opportunity should come from a 
growth-oriented incentive (i.e., SARs) that 
aligns executives™ interests 
with those of the Company™
s shareholders. In addition,
 the Committee believes that full-value share awar
ds (i.e., performance shares and restrict
ed stock) complement each other and are 
important to drive stronger retention value and enhanced ownership creation opportunities, and should therefore be a meaningful
 portion of the long-term incentive. The Committee also believes th
at performance shares further th
e objective of creating a cle
ar connection between results achieved and compen
sation earned. The Committ
ee determined that the mix of long-term incentives for 
2014 was still overly weighted towards SARs and as such adjusted
 the mix of long-term incentives as per the Table below. The 
Committee believes that the mix is now appropriate based on th
e Company™s strategic objectives, compensation philosophy, 
regulatory guidance, risk culture and competitive practice. 
     Stock Appreciation Rights.
 SARs for Named Executive Officers have been and wi
ll continue to be granted at the closing price 
of the Company™s common stock on the date of grant, with a 10-y
ear term and generally a 4-year 
graded vesting schedule. These 
award terms are consistent with 
the annual grant for all eligible 
employees at the Company. The gr
ant date is the date of the 
Committee™s approval of the awards, which will
 typically be at a 
first quarter meeting of the Comm
ittee or at the annual shareh
older 
meeting in April. The grant dates for 2015 awards are detailed in 
the 2015 Grants of Plan-Based Aw
ards table. The Company does 
not adjust the timing of its annual grant based on SEC filings or
 press releases. Rather, the annual grant date is established 
and communicated well in advance of the date.
    38  Ł Ali
gnin
g management and shareholders™ interests 
 Ł Motivatin
g senior executives to optimize lon
g-term shareholder value 
 Ł Encouraging stock ownership amon
g senior executives 
 Ł Enhancin
g the Compan
y™s abilit
y to retain ke
y executives 
 Ł Ensuring the program desi
gn is consistent with our compensation philosoph
y and reflective of exte
rnal market trends 
 Ł Strengthenin
g the risk-adjusted pa
y decisions 
 Award Type 2014 Proportion o
fLong-Term
 Incentive Value
 2015 Proportion o
fLong-Term Incentive Value
2015 Calculation of Awards
Stock Appreciation 
Rights  25% 
  15% 
Total award dollar value multiplied by 15% divided 
by stated 
yearly SAR valuePerformance 
Shares  35%   45% Total award dollar value multiplied by 45% divided 
by the Company™s closing stock price on the grant 
date
Restricted Stock   40% 
  40% 
Total award dollar value multiplied by 40% divided 
by the Company™s closing stock price on the grant 
date
(1)The Company assigns a compensation value for SARs based on a number of factors including the calculated Blac
k-Scholes value using a six year expected life. This 
valuation utilizes the estimated accounting or expense value of the stock appreciations rights. 
(1)
COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
    Performance Share Awards.
 Prior to granting performance shares in 2015
, we considered our programs™ alignment with 
competitive practices compared to our peer banks. Based on this 
review, the following changes were made to the performance shar
e award program: 
         The performance payout grid is shown below. Payout opportunities range from 0% to 150% of target, with no payout earned if 
relative ROAE falls below the 25 percen
tile of the Compensation Peer Group. 
     The 2012 performance share award measured performance from April 1, 2012 through March 31, 2015. The Company™s 
performance on total shareholder return over the 3-year performa
nce period was at the 25th percen
tile relative to peers. The re
sult was a zero share payout fo
r this award in 2015. 
 Restricted Stock Awards.
 Restricted stock awards have a 3-year graded ves
ting schedule. These awards 
are full-value shares of 
stock that are eligible for divide
nd payments and receive voting ri
ghts during the rest
riction period.  For senior executives (including NEOs), a performance based ve
sting requirement was introduced in 2013 using ROTCE as a 
threshold metric before each annual equi
ty grant vesting tranche is earned. The 
ROTCE threshold goal for 2015 was 2%. The 
threshold was put in place to protect agai
nst high levels of compen
sation payouts for poor risk or performance outcomes. 
 Determination of Long-term Eq
uity-based Incentive Awards
. The Chief Executive Officer recommends the award levels for 
the other Named Executive Officers and the 
Committee makes the final aw
ard determination for all Na
med Executive Officers. The 
award considerations are not based on a fo
rmula. Rather, the Committee ma
y choose to make the actual award higher or lower than
 the target award based on the qualitative 
assessment of performance ag
ainst stated objectives as we
ll as the individual™s risk 
assessment results. The Committee believes that by including a 
performance element as part of 
the upfront grant process, the 
Company is able to further reinforce the pay-fo
r-performance objective of the long-term incentives. 
 These grants provide incentive for the crea
tion of shareholder value since the full 
benefit of the grant 
to each Named Executiv
e Officer can only be realized with an appreciation in the price of
 the Company™s common shares or based on relative return on av
erage equity, depending on the type of award. The Company does not 
   39  Ł The primary metric used for our performan
ce share awards was changed from relative 
total shareholder return to return on 
average equity (ﬁROAEﬂ), as ad
justed, relative to our peer banks 
 Ł To achieve balance between relative and absolute metr
ics, two absolute performance hurdles were added: 
  ŠROTCE must be 
greater than a predet
ermined threshold each 
year in order for awards to vest 
 ŠEfficiency ratio must be better than a 
predetermined threshold at 
the end of the three year
 performance period in 
order to earn an award pa
yout 
greater than tar
get Payout Grid for the 2015 Performance Share Award
Performance Level
   Relative ROE
 Payout Percenta
geThreshold   Below the 25th Percentile
 0%Between Threshold and Below Tar
get performance
 25%Below Tar
get   Median performance median 150 basis points
 50%Target   Median performance (50th percentile)
 100%
Maximum   Median performance plus 150 basis points
 150%
  Straight line interpolation will be used to determine payouts between Threshold and Maximum 
thCOMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
     grant discounted stock options or SARs, re-price previously granted stock options or SARs, or grant reload stock options. 
 When making the final determination to
 grant long-term equity incentive compensation awards in February 2015, the 
Committee had the benefit of information relating to market medi
an compensation levels, Company 
financial performance during 
2014, the qualitative performance assessment described below, an
d individual risk performance assessments. After reviewing this
 information for 2014, the Committee granted a 2015 long-term equity incentive compensation award of 106% of target for the Chie
f Executive Officer and equity awards ranging from 90% to 110% of target for the NEOs. 
 Qualitative Performance Assessments.
 The individual qualitative performance asse
ssment referenced in the discussions above 
is a review of how each Named Ex
ecutive Officer performed against a set of stated objectives. 
This assessment is performed by t
he Board of Directors with respect
 to the Chief Executive Officer™s
 performance and by the Chief Ex
ecutive Officer with respect to
 the 
performance of the other Named Executi
ve Officers. The specific objectives a
ssessed for each NEO are as follows: 
 For Mr. Carmichael: Leadership and execution as President and Ch
ief Operating Officer relating to objectives tied to Company 
and line of business financial performance in a well managed risk
 environment, customer service 
levels, team work across divisi
onal 
and functional areas, and promotion of core
 values of accountability, integrity, re
spect and inclusion, and teamwork and 
collaboration. Mr. Carmichael™s objectives were consistent in 2014 and most of 2015 until his transition to Chief Executive Off
icer in November. The VCP award was based on 2015 
performance against these objectives. The 
LTI award granted in February 2015 was 
based on 2014 performance against these objectives. 
 For Mr. Kabat: Leadership and pe
rformance as Chief Executive 
Officer relating to objectives tied to Company financial 
performance in a well managed risk envir
onment, customer and employee index goals, ﬁO
ne Bankﬂ success, and promotion of core 
values of accountability, integrity, respect and inclusion, and 
teamwork and collabora
tion. Mr. Kabat™s objectives were consist
ent in 
2014 and most of 2015 until he stepped down as Chief Executive Officer in November. The VCP award was based on 2015 
performance against these objectives. The LTI
 award granted in February 2015 was based on 2014 performance against these 
objectives.  For Mr. Tuzun: Leadership and execution 
as Executive Vice President and Chief Fi
nancial Officer relating to objectives 
concerning balance sheet, capital and liquidity management, risk management and compliance, credit loss management, operational
 excellence, maintaining a strong financial team, and promotion of
 core values of accountability, integrity, respect and inclusi
on, and 
teamwork and collaboration. Th
e VCP award was based on 2015 performance agains
t these objectives. The LTI award granted in 
February 2015 was based on 2014 performance against similar objectives. 
 For Mr. Anderson: Mr. Anderson joined the Company as Executive
 Vice President and Chief Operat
ing Officer in August 2015. 
His 2015 VCP award was guara
nteed at $750,000 as part of his new hire offer. He also 
received an equity grant of restricted sto
ck valued at approximately $3,000,000 and a sign-on bonus of $3,000,000 to cover equity compensation forfeited when joining the 
Company. 
 For Mr. Spence: Mr. Spence joined the Co
mpany as Executive Vice President and Chie
f Strategy Officer in September 2015. 
His VCP award was prorated for 2015 based on time served in his 
role and objectives 
concerning strategic planning, investments,
 and promotion of the core values of
 accountability, in
tegrity, respect and inclusio
n, and teamwork and coll
aboration. The VCP award 
was 
based on 2015 performance against these objectives. He also received an equity
 grant of restricted stoc
k valued at approximately $3,675,000 to cover cash and equity compensation forfeited when jo
ining the Company, and a sign-on bonus of $700,000 as part of
 his new hire offer. 
   40 COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
    For Mr. Forrest: Leadership and execution as Executive Vice Presid
ent and Chief Risk Officer rela
ting to objectives concerning 
risk management and compliance, operational 
excellence, and promotion of core values of accountability, integrity, respect and inclusion, and teamwork and colla
boration. Mr. Forrest™s objectives were consistent in 2014 and 2015. The VCP award was based o
n 2015 performance against these objectives. Th
e LTI award granted in February 2015 was based on 2014 performance against these 
objectives.  For Mr. Poston: Leadership and execution as 
Executive Vice President and Chief Strategy and Administrative Officer relating to 
objectives concerning strategic planning, 
capital management, operational excellence, 
and promotion of core values of accountab
ility, 
integrity, respect and inclusion, and teamwo
rk and collaboration. Mr. Poston™s objectives were consistent for 2014 and 2015. He
 did 
not receive a VCP award based on 2
015 performance against these ob
jectives as he separated from
 the Company in October 2015. 
The LTI award granted in February 2015 was based on 2014 performance against these objectives 
 Other Long-term Equity-based Plan Provisions.
 The annual cash and long-term equity
-based incentive co
mpensation awards made in 2015 were authorized under the Company™s 2014 Incentive
 Compensation Plan. This Plan wa
s approved and adopted by the 
Company™s shareholders in 2014. 
 The Company™s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics provides that
 the Company reserves the right 
to and, if a
ppropriate, will 
seek restitution of any bonus, commission,
 or other compensation receive
d as a result of an
 employee™s intentional or knowing 
fraudulent or illegal conduct or misconduct, including the making of a material misrepresentation contained in the Company™s 
financial statements.  The Committee has delegated to certain Named Executive Officer
s, as well as to the Chief Human Resource Officer, the 
authority to grant equity
 awards for recruiting an
d retention purposes up to specified limits. 
 2016 EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 PLAN DESIGN CHANGES 
 2016 Variable Compensation Plan Changes. 
As stated above, the Company and 
the Committee review the variable 
compensation plan annually
 to determine if any changes need to be made to 
the plan for the next year. During 2015, the Company 
reviewed the plan and determined
 that the core funding metrics 
and modifiers continue to provid
e the right business focus and a
re aligned with business strategy. However, net charge offs will no 
longer be reviewed as a modifier
 as the expense associated wit
h net 
charge offs is included in the core fundin
g metric of EPS and typically another one of the modifier metrics, non-performing ass
ets. Non-performing assets is a forward looking indicator of credit qual
ity and is viewed as a better ear
ly warning signal of any eme
rging 
credit issues than net charge offs.
  2016 Long-term Equity-based Incentive Plan Changes. 
The Company and the Committee also
 reviews the long-term incentive 
plan annually to determine if any changes need to be made to 
the plan (i.e. award mix, performa
nce measures, modifiers, etc.) f
or the 
next year. During 2015, the Comp
any reviewed the long-ter
m incentive plan and decided to make
 the following ch
anges to continue
 to strengthen the governance, reporting, and risk adjusted pay decisions to meet evolving regulatory guidance: 
     
  The Committee approved the changes 
at their December 2015 meeting.    41  Ł Starting with awards granted in 2017, the vesting schedule
 for SARs granted to executives
 will change from a 4-year 
graded vestin
g to a 3-
year graded vestin
g to ali
gn with the vestin
g schedules of their other equit
y vehicles   Ł The retirement eligibility criteria for all long-term incentive aw
ards granted after January 1, 2016 will be 55 years of age 
minimum with 5 or more 
years of service where a
ge plus years of service equal 65 
 Ł The termination provision was revised such that employees will now have 90 days post voluntary termination to exercise 

any vested SARs 
granted after January 1, 2016 
 COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
     EXECUTIVE BENEFITS AND PERQUISITES 
 Summary of Eligibility for Benefits and Perquisites.
 The Company provides few benefits and perquisites to executive officers 
that are not available to the general empl
oyee population. Special benefits include an
 executive physical exam program and a de
ferred 
compensation plan. Special perquisites for executives include the following: financial planning reimbursement, nominal holiday 
gifts, 
and parking. Additionally, spouses or gues
ts of executive officers may be provided trav
el and/or entertainment benefits related
 to business events where their attendance is exp
ected and appropriate, such 
as company recognition events
 or trips, recruiting mea
ls, or social events held for marketing or other business purposes. Thes
e benefits are often provided w
ith little or no incremental co
st to the 
Company. The Company does not provide tax gross-ups for these special perquisites. 
 As part of Mr. Anderson™s new hire offer, the Company made a one-time reimbursement of Mr. Anderson™s country club 
initiation fee. The Co
mpany believes that such 
reimbursement was appropriate and necessary
 to attract Mr. Anderson to join the 
Company. This reimbursement is noted in 
the Summary Compensation Table on page 46. 
 Retirement Benefits.
 The Company™s retirement benefits are designed to
 assist employees in accumu
lating wealth to provide income during their retirement year
s. The retirement benefits are designed to 
attract and retain empl
oyees and to encourage 
employees to save money for their retirement while maintainin
g a competitive cost 
structure for the Comp
any. Based on the 
Company™s research using two national benefits surveys, its retirement benefits are positioned near the market median for simil
ar employers. The Company™s primary retirement benefit plan is a defined contribution 401(k) plan with a company match. This plan 
was amended effective January 1, 2015 as discussed below. The Company also maintains a defined benefit pension plan that has be
en frozen and none of the Named Executiv
e Officers participate in the plan. 
 The Company maintains the same 401(k) plan for all eligible 
employees, including the Named Ex
ecutive Officers. The 401(k) plan provides a match to employee contributions. Effective January 
1, 2015, the Company™s match is 150% of the first 2% and 100
% of the next 4% of eligible compensation an
 employee contributes to the plan, and is in
vested in any of th
e plan™s existing inve
stment 
alternatives that the employee se
lects. This Company match is immediately 100% 
vested. All Named Executive Officers are eligibl
e for this plan up to the IRS wage or contribution limits. 
 The Company maintains a defined benefit pension plan. Em
ployees who met the age and 
service requirement were ﬁgrandfatheredﬂ and continue to 
accrue benefits under that plan. No Named Executi
ve Officers continue to accrue benefits under 
this 
plan. Mr. Kabat has a frozen benefit for his service while at Old Kent Bank prior to it being acquired by the Company. The Old 
Kent 
Bank defined benefit pension plan was frozen for all participants shortly after the Company acquired Old Kent Financial Corpora
tion. 
The retirement benefit under the defined benefit pension plan is based on years of service and a percent of an employee™s highe
st five 
consecutive years of earnings over the last 
ten years of employment. Compensation for retirement benefit calculations is define
d as the base salary plus variable compensation. 
 Health and Welfare Benefits.
 The Company offers medical, dental, vision, life 
and disability insurance to its employees. The 
benefits are designed to attract and retain employees and provid
e security to employees
 and their dependents for their health a
nd welfare needs. Based on the Company™s resear
ch using two national benefits surveys, it
s health and welfare 
benefits are positio
ned 
near the market median for similar employer
s. These benefits are offered to employees
 and Named Executive 
Officers on a uniform
 basis and are subject to insurance policy 
limitations. The Comp
any provides to each Named Execu
tive Officer a comprehensive 
physical exam program. The Company provides Company-paid life in
surance coverage equal to an 
employee™s base salary, up to 
$1,000,000. The Company™s long-term disability benefit is 60% of 
an employee™s base salary and the benefit is limited to $20,00
0 per 
month. The Company also offers a Company-paid short-term disabi
lity benefit with similar benefits to the long-term disability 
program. 
   42 COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
    Deferred Compensation.
 The Company offers some of its employees (at ce
rtain salary band levels
, including 
its executive officers) a nonqualified deferred compensation 
plan. This plan allows for the deferral of
 base salary and bonus. The plan also 
provides for the Company to make a contribution for loss of qualified plan 401(k) match due to deferral of pay into this plan or
 due to 
IRS wage and/or contribution li
mitations under the qualified 4
01(k) plan. The deferred funds 
receive earnings based on the mutu
al funds elected by each executive. Executives may 
also elect a rate equal to the return on
 Company common stock. The executives d
o not earn any preferential or
 above market returns. 
 Severance and Change-i
n-Control Benefits.
 On November 18, 2014, the Committee adopted the Fifth Third Bancorp 
Executive Change-in-Control Severance Plan (t
he ﬁSeverance Planﬂ) that was effective as
 of January 1, 2015. The Severance Plan 
replaced all existing change-in-co
ntrol agreements with executives, which expired on December 31,
 2014 in accordance with their terms. The Severance Plan also eliminated 
the remaining excise tax gross-up provisions
 in the expiring ch
ange-in-control agreements, 
provides market level severance benefits 
to certain officers upon a qu
alifying termination after a change-in-control, continues
 to 
condition receipt of such severance benef
its upon execution of a release and non-compet
e agreement, and allo
ws for a consistent
 approach to change-in-control severance benefits for covered of
ficers. The plan covers approxim
ately 45 officers including all 
of the 
2015 Named Executive Officers. 
 Under the Severance Plan, certain executives 
will receive severance if, in connection 
with a change-in-control, the executive™s
 employment is terminated without Cause (as defined in the Seve
rance Plan) or the executive resi
gns for Good Reason (as defined 
in 
the Severance Plan). Upon a qualifying term
ination after a change-in-c
ontrol, the Named Executive Of
ficers will receive an amount equal to 2.99 times the sum of base salary and variable comp
ensation amount, except for Messrs. Spence and Forr
est who will rec
eive 2.0 times (each as defined in the Severance 
Plan). In addition, insurance benefits an
d certain retirement benefits payable to t
he Named Executive Officers will be paid for three years. As noted above, no excise tax gr
oss-ups will be provided. For this purpose, a 
change-
in-control would occur in any of the following instances: 
     
    The Severance Plan defers to the applicab
le Incentive Compensation Plans for treatme
nt of long-term equi
ty-based incentive 
compensation in the event of a 
change-in-control. Since April 2008, we have not 
granted any awards which 
provide for single tri
gger 
vesting upon a change-in-control. Instead, the vesting provisions for those awards provide for 
accelerated vesting only if ther
e is a change-in-control and a subsequent qualifying termination of 
employment (i.e. double trigger). Performance-based awards 
(performance shares) would be paid out at th
e higher of (1) the extent to which the 
performance goals had been met through the 
date of the change-in-control or (2) 
the value on the date of the chan
ge-in-control of the number of 
target shares awarded on the gr
ant date.   43  Ł Any person is or becomes the beneficial owner of 25% or more of the voting power of the Company™s outstanding 
securities 
  Ł During any consecutive 2-year 
period, the directors in office in the beginning of such period (or directors who were 
approved b
y 2/3 of such directors) cease to constitute a ma
jorit
y of the Board 
 Ł The sale or disposition of substantially all of the Company™s 
assets or the merger or consolidation of the Company with 
any other corporation unless the voting securities of the Company 
outstanding prior to such action continue to represent at 
least 50% of the votin
g power of the mer
ged or consolidated entit
y  Ł The Company™s shareholders approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Compan
y COMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
     TAX AND ACCOUNTING IMPACT OF COMPENSATION PROGRAMS 
 Deductibility of Executive Compensation. 
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code limits the deductibility of 
compensation paid to or earned by certain 
executive officers of a public
 company. Section 162(m) limits the annual deductibilit
y of 
certain (non-performance based) executive compensation to $1 
million per covered executive officer. Certain other limitations o
n the deductibility of executive compensation will continue to appl
y to some forms of compensation earned during the Company™s 
participation in the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) in 
addition to the limitation under Section 162(m). While the Company
™s compensation philosophy has been to, where appropriate, positi
on executive compensation to qualify for deductibility, in approv
ing 
compensation that may not be deductible, the Committee has dete
rmined that the underlying ex
ecutive compensa
tion programs are 
appropriate and necessary to attract, retain
, and motivate senior executives, and that
 failing to meet these objectives creates
 more risk 
for the Company than the financial impact 
of losing the tax deduction. 
For the year ending December 
31, 2015, the tax impact re
lated to non-deductible compensation expe
nse was approximately $1,500,000. 
 Accounting and Financial Reporting.
 The Company accounts for long-term equi
ty-based incentive compensation payments 
including stock options, SARs, restricted st
ock, and performance shares in accordan
ce with accounting prin
ciples generally acce
pted 
in the United States of America. 
 EXECUTIVE OWNERSHIP AND CAPITAL ACCUMULATION 
 Share Ownership Guidelines. 
The executive compensation program is designed to provide opportunities for executive officers 
to build ownership in the Company and to align performance with 
shareholder interests. Accordingl
y, the Company has established
 share ownership guidelines for senior empl
oyees in the Company™s salary band struct
ure, including the ex
ecutive officers. The amount of shares required to be retained varies based upon the a
ssigned salary band and associated
 multiple of base salary. The
se employees are expected to use shares net 
of taxes obtained through awards under the 
long-term equity-based incentive compensati
on 
program to establish a significant level of direct ownership. Stock ownership includes: 
           Until ownership guidelines are met, executi
ve officers are required to retain 100% of
 the net after-tax sh
ares following exerci
se or receipt of the shares. Executives have 
5 years to achieve their executive share 
ownership requirements. Specific ownership 
guidelines for the Named 
Executive Officers are:    The Committee reviews progress toward achieving the ownership goa
l for the Company™s 
executive officers on an annual basis. Based on the 2015 review and December 31, 
2015 share price, all of th
e Named Executive Officers ha
d reached their ownership guideline except Mr. Tuzun. Mr. Tuzun has un
til 2018 to meet his ownership requirement and is making appropriate progress towar
d meeting the requirement. 
   44  Ł Shares owned individuall
y and b
y immediate famil
y sharing the same household 
 Ł Restricted stock not 
yet vested  Ł Shares held in the 401(k) plan 
 Ł Shares held in the emplo
yee stock purchase plan 
  Ł Shares held in the nonqualifi
ed deferred compensation plan 
Share Ownership Guidelines
Chief Executive Officer
  6x Salar
yOther Named Executive Officers
 3x Salar
yCOMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 
    Beneficial Ownership.
 The following table sets forth certain informatio
n regarding the Named Execu
tive Officers™ beneficial 
ownership of the common stock of the Company as of January 31, 2016: 
     Prohibition on Hedging. 
The Company prohibits its executive
 officers from engaging
 in speculative tradi
ng and hedging shares 
of Company securities. This includes prohib
itions against day trading or short selling 
of Company secu
rities and in transaction
s in any derivative of Company securities, including buying and writing options. Executives are restricted from buying Company 
securities on margin or using Company secu
rities as collateral for a 
loan. Additionally, the Company™s insider trading policy p
rohibits 
trading during designated blackout periods and requires approval by the Legal Department prior to any trade. 
   45 Title of Class  Name of Officer Number of SharesBeneficially Owned 
  Percent of Class
Common Stock   Kevin T. Kaba
t 3,423,952
   0.4358%
Common Stock   Gre
g D. Carmichael 1,015,421 
  0.1295%
Common Stock   Daniel T. Poston
 610,033
   0.0778%
Common Stock   Timothy N. Spence
 197,726 
  0.0252%
Common Stock   Lars C. Anderson
 158,144
   0.0202%
Common Stock   Tayfun Tuzun
 120,609 
  0.0154%
Common Stock   Frank R. Forrest 63,712
   0.0081%
(1)The amounts shown represent the total shares owned outright by such individuals together with shares which are issuable upon
 the exercise of currently exercisable (or 
exercisable within 60 days), but unexercised, stock options and stock appreciation rights and shares held in the name of spouse
s, minor children, certain relatives, trusts, 
estates and certain affiliated companies as to which beneficial ownership may be disclaimed. These individuals have the right t
o acquire the shares indicated after their 
names, upon the exercise of currently exercisable (or exercisable within 60 days of January 31, 2016) stock appreciation rights
: Mr. Carmichael, 815,700; Mr. Kabat, 
2,498,096; Mr. Poston, 402,345 and Mr. Tuzun,
 64,859. The amounts listed for Stock Appreciation Rights represent the number of 
rights that may be exercised; the actual 
number of shares delivered will var
y based on the stoc
k™s appreciation over the 
grant price at the time of exercise. 
(2)The amounts shown do not include shares of common stock underlying outstanding restricted stock units. Named Executive Offic
ers owned the following number of 
restricted stock units as of January 31, 2016: Greg D. Carmichael, 102,302, and Frank R. Forrest, 26,357. None of these restric
ted stock units are expected to vest within 60 
days of January 31, 2016. 
(1)(2)
COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS 
 Summary Compensation Table.
 The table below summarizes th
e compensation awarded, paid 
to, or earned by the Company™s 
Named Executive Officers during 2013-2015. Th
e amounts in the Stock Awards and Option
 Awards columns indi
cate the grant date 
fair value associated with all 
grants awarded in the correspond
ing year and do not correspond with the amounts that the Named 
Executive Officers may eventually realize wi
th respect to these awards. The benefit, 
if any, actually recei
ved from these award
s will 
depend upon the future value of our common stock. 
         46 2015 Summar
y Compensation Table 
Name & Principal
 Position
  Year
  Salary($)Bonus ($)
  StockAwards($)OptionAwards($)
Non-EquityIncentive Plan
Compensation
($)Change in Pension 
Value & Nonqualified 
Deferred Compensation
Earnings ($)
  All Other 
Compensation
($) Total ($)
Greg D. Carmichael
 President and Chief 
Executive Officer
   2015   $806,986 $0   $3,748,629 $308,57
7 $1,336,000 $0   $250,858  $6,451,050 
  2014   $709,203
 $0   $1,385,816
 $537,497
 $935,459 $0   $345,374  $3,913,349
   2013   $695,447 $0   $1,505,406 $644,99
8 $1,151,720 $0   $375,913  $4,373,484 
Kevin T. Kabat,
 Vice Chairman and retired 
Chief Executive Officer
   2015   $1,099,768
 $0   $4,249,989
 $749,998
 $1,545,000 $0   $330,725  $7,975,480
   2014   $1,046,997 $0   $3,222,806 $1,249,999 
$1,545,000 $120,800   $241,794  $7,427,396 
  2013   $1,024,227
 $0   $3,500,933
 $1,499,998
 $1,850,000 $0   $289,711  $8,164,869
 Tayfun Tuzun
 Executive Vice President 
and Chief Financial Officer
   2015   $452,632 $0   $688,494 $121,500 $800,000 $0   $95,681  $2,158,307 
  2014   $425,006
 $0   $580,111
 $224,998
 $367,420 $0   $58,114  $1,655,649
   2013   $313,365 $0   $175,050 $74,998 $315,000 $0   $46,875  $925,288 
Lars C. Anderson,
 Executive Vice President 
and Chief Operating Office
r   2015   $272,597
 $3,750,000
   $2,999,992
 $0 $0 $0   $60,159  $7,082,748
 Timothy N. Spence,
 Executive Vice President 
and Chief Strategy Officer   2015   $131,541 $712,829   $3,674,982 $0 $217,230 $0   $2,372  $4,738,954 
Frank R. Forrest,
 Executive Vice President 
and Chief Risk Officer   2015   $528,093
 $0   $1,264,977
 $135,001
 $750,000 $0   $109,627  $2,787,698
   2014   $500,011 $0   $644,565 $250,001 $455,002 $0   $100,600  $1,950,179 
  2013   $144,234
 $1,150,000
   $674,999
 $0 $0 $0   $85,168  $2,054,401
 Daniel T. Poston,
 former Executive Vice 
President and Chief Strategy 
and Administrative Office
r   2015   $495,073 $0   $988,110 $174,
378 $0 $0   $2,155,435  $3,812,996 
  2014   $544,322
 $0   $741,815
 $287,718
 $540,000 $0   $287,229  $2,401,084
   2013   $530,281 $0   $927,737 $397,500 $562,500 $0   $306,454  $2,724,472 
(1)The amount shown for Mr. Anderson includes a $3,000,000 signing bonus and a $750,000 VCP payment guaranteed as part of his n
ew hire offer. The amount shown for 
Mr. Spence is a signing bonus as part of his new hire offer. The amount shown for Mr. Forrest in 2013 includes a $650,000 signi
ng bonus and a $500,000 VCP payment 
guaranteed as part of his new hire offer. 
(2)Amounts reflect the aggregate grant date fair value of awards granted during the year valued in accordance with statement ac
counting principles generally accepted in the 
United States of America. Assumptions used in determining fair value are disclosed in Note 24 ﬁStock-Based Compensationﬂ locate
d on pages 149-152 of the Company™s 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
year ended December 31, 2015. 
(1)(2)(3)(2)(4)(5)(6)
COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS
                  
  
        47 (3)The values shown for performance share awards for 2015 in both the Summary Compensation Table and the table below reflect th
e grant date fair value of $18.78 which 
was also the closing price on the February 11, 2015 grant date. The number of performance shares awarded was also calculated us
ing this value. The values shown for 
performance share awards for 2014 reflect the grant date fair value of $15.61 per share for these awards. The grant date closin
g stock price on April 15, 2014 was $21.63. 
However, in prior years, the number of performance shares awarded was calculated using the 30-day average closing stock price p
rior to the April 1, 2014 start of the 
performance period. That 30-day average stock price was $22.34 in 2014. The values shown for 2013 reflect the grant date fair v
alue of $16.15 per share which is also the 
grant date closing stock price on April 16, 2013. However, in prior years, the number of performance shares awarded was calcula
ted using the 30-day average closing stock 
price prior to the April 1, 2013 start of the performance period. That 30-day average stock price was $16.14 in 2013. Fair valu
e for 2015, 2014, and 2013 performance share 
awards assume target performance achievement as of the date of grant. Upon separation from the Company Mr. Poston™s awards were
 prorated for time served during the 
performance period. Fair values assumin
g maximum performance as of the date of 
grant are as follows: 
Fair Value at Maximum Performance
Executive
  2013
  2014
     2015
 Gre
g D. Carmichael  $1,290,805 
 $788,711  
  $1,388,612 
Kevin T. Kaba
t  $3,001,865
  $1,834,214
    $3,374,991
 Tayfun Tuzun
  $150,098 
 $330,152  
  $546,752 
Lars C. Anderson
  n/a
  n/a
     n/a
 Timothy N. Spence
  n/a 
 n/a  
   n/a 
Frank R. Forres
t  n/a
  $366,843
    $607,486
 Daniel T. Poston
  $662,893 
 $211,110  
  $196,176 
(4)Amounts reflect the VCP award paid in cash to each NEO for 2015 performance. Mr. Anderson™s VCP payment amount was guarantee
d at $750,000 as part of his new hire 
package. Mr. Spence™s VCP payment was prorated for the time served in his role during 2015. Mr. Poston did not receive a VCP pa
yment for 2015 performance as he 
separated from the Compan
y in October 2015. 
(5)Amounts reflect the change in pension value only. The Company has a nonqualified deferred compensation plan in which the exe
cutives do not receive any above-market 
or preferable earnin
gs. The earnings received are disclosed in the ﬁNonqualified Deferred Compensationﬂtable. 
(6)The amounts reflected in the All Other Compensation column consist of the benefits provided to the Company™s Named Executive
 Officers as described above under 
ﬁCompensation Discussion and Anal
ysis Œ Executive Benefits and Perquisites.ﬂThe followin
g table reflects the costs of these benefits for 2015: 
NamePerquisites
and Other Personal 
Benefits  RegistrantContributions
to Defined 
ContributionPlans
TaxReimbursements
& Insurance Premiums
Severance
  Other  Total
Greg D. Carmichael
 $25,127  $127,171 $512 $0   $98,048   $250,858 
Kevin T. Kaba
t $10,359
  $190,334 $720 $0   $129,312   $330,725
 Tayfun Tuzun
 $9,043  $64,929 $307 $0   $21,402   $95,681 
Lars C. Anderson
 $59,547
  $0 $487 $0   $125   $60,159
 Timoth
y N. Spence
 $2,047  $0 $325 $0   $0   $2,372 
Frank R. Forres
t $3,447
  $74,017 $361 $0   $31,802   $109,627
 Daniel T. Poston
 $6,750  $24,924 $328 $2,050,000   $73,433   $2,155,435 
 The amount shown for Mr. Carmichael represents trust and estate planning fees, parking, the incremental cost of travel and ente
rtainment benefits provided to 
Mr. Carmichael™s spouse at business functions, an executive ph
ysical, and a personal computer. 
 The amount shown for Mr. Kabat represents parking, an executive physical and the incremental cost of travel and entertainment b
enefits provided to Mr. Kaba
t™s spouse at business functions.   The amount shown for Mr. Tuzun represents trust and estate plannin
g fees, parkin
g, and a personal computer. 
 The amount shown for Mr. Anderson represents trust and estate planning fees, parking, a one-time country club initiation fee, e
xpenses associated with his move 
and a personal computer. 
  The amount shown for Mr. Spence represents parking and a personal computer. 
(H)(A)
(B)
 (C)
(D)
 (E) (F)
 (G)(A)(B)(C)(D)(E)COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS 
          Grants of Plan-Based Awards.
 The following table illustrates the long-term eq
uity-based incentive comp
ensation awards made 
to Named Executive Officers during 2015. The table reflects th
e full grant date fair valu
e of awards made in 2015. 
 On February 11, 2015, each 
of the Named Executive Officers (except Messrs.
 Anderson and Spence), received grants of 
performance shares that will ve
st three years from the grant date (contingent on meeting the performance threshold), restricted
 stock 
that will vest in three equal an
nual installments from the date of grant, and SARs
 that will vest in four equal annual installm
ents from the date of grant. 
 Dividends are paid on unvested restricted st
ock; these awards are reported in the All 
Other Stock Awards: Number of Shares of 
Stock or Units column below. None of these awards have been repriced or modified. 
   48   The amount shown for Mr. Forrest represents parkin
g and a personal computer. 
  The amount shown for Mr. Poston represents trust and estate planning fees and parking. 
  The amount shown for Mr. Carmichael represents wellness rewards, a company Health Savings Account contribution, dividends of $
58,048 paid on unvested 
restricted stock and retainer fees of $40,000 from Vantiv, Inc. for serving on the Vantiv Board of Directors. The amount shown 
for Mr. Kabat represents wellness 
rewards, a company Health Savings Account contribution and dividends of $125,812 paid on unvested restricted stock. The amount 
shown for Mr. Tuzun 
represents wellness rewards, a company Health Savings Account contribution, and dividends of $17,902 paid on unvested restricte
d stock. The amount shown for 
Mr. Anderson represents a company Health Savings Account contribution. The amount shown for Mr. Forrest represents wellness rew
ards, a company Health 
Savings Account contribution, and dividends of $28,302 paid on unvested restricted stock. The amount shown for Mr. Poston repre
sents wellness rewards, a 
company Health Savings Account contribution, dividends of $31,100 paid on unvested restricted stock and retainer fees of $40,00
0 from Vantiv, Inc. for serving 
on the Vantiv Board of Directors. 
 (F)(G)(H)COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS
        
    Upon separation, Daniel Poston™s 2015 performance share award was prorated for time served during the performance period result
ing in 6,964 performance shares remaining. Reflected above is the original grant date value 
of the award on the grant date. 
   49 2015 Grants of Plan-Based Awards
           Estimated Future Pa
youts Under
Non- Equity Incentive Plan Awards
Estimated Future Pa
youts UnderEquity Incentive Plan Awards
AllOtherStockAwards:Numberof 
Sharesof Stock
or Units
(#)All Other
Option Awards:Number ofSecurities
Underlying
Options (#)
Exercise
or BasePrice ofOptionAwards($ / Sh)
Grant
Date FairValue of
Stock and
OptionAwards($)Name
 Grant
 Date  Date Grant Approved by 
Compensation
Committee
  No. of 
Units Threshold
($)Target($)Maximum($)
Number
of UnitsThreshold
(#)  Tar
get 
(#)  Maximum
(#)Greg D. Carmichael
            $0 Š  $2,300,000
            2/11/2015    2/11/2015     49,294 12,324    49,294    73,941 $925,741 
   2/11/2015
    2/11/2015
             56,933
 $18.78
 $308,577
    2/11/2015    2/11/2015             43,817 $822,883 
   11/2/2015
    11/2/2015
             102,302 $2,000,005
 Kevin T. Kaba
t            $0 
Š  $3,200,000         
   2/11/2015
    2/11/2015
     119,808
 29,952
    119,808    179,712 $2,249,994
    2/11/2015    2/11/2015             138,376 $18.78 $749,998 
   2/11/2015
    2/11/2015
             106,496 $1,999,995
 Tayfun Tuzun
            $0 
Š  $950,000         
   2/11/2015
    2/11/2015
     19,409
 4,852
    19,409    29,114 $364,501
    2/11/2015    2/11/2015             22,417 $18.78 $121,500 
   2/11/2015
    2/11/2015
             17,252 $323,993
 Lars C. Anderson
   10/1/2015    10/1/2015     $0 
Š  $1,350,000         158,144 $2,999,992 
Timoth
y N. Spence
   10/1/2015
    10/1/2015
     $0 Š  $950,000
            10/1/2015    10/1/2015             35,582 $674,990 
Frank R. Forres
t   2/11/2015
    2/11/2015
     $0 Š  $950,000
 21,565
 5,391
    21,565    32,348 $404,991
    2/11/2015    2/11/2015             24,908 $18.78 $135,001 
   2/11/2015
    2/11/2015
             19,169 $359,994
    10/1/2015    10/1/2015             26,357 $499,992 
Daniel T. Poston
   2/11/2015
    2/11/2015
     $0 Š  $0 27,855
 6,964
    27,855    41,783 $523,117
    2/11/2015    2/11/2015             32,173 $18.78 $174,378 
   2/11/2015
    2/11/2015
             24,760 $464,993
 (1)Awards were made under the 2014 Incentive Compensation Plan as approved b
y shareholders on April 15, 2014 
(2)NEOs do not have assi
gned annual incentive tar
gets; rather, each NEO has an incentive opportunit
y ran
ge up to an established maximum. 
(3)Includes performance shares that are settled in Compan
y stock, onl
y after threshold performance or 
greater is achieved 
(4)Grant Date Fair Value of Option Awards granted on February 11, 2015 calculated as [total number of shares] multiplied by $5.
42. Grant Date Fair Value of Stock Awards granted (including performance shares) on 
February 11, 2015 calculated as [total number of shares] multiplied by $18.78 Grant Date Fair Value of Stock Awards granted on 
October 1, 2015 calculated as [total number of shares] multiplied by $18.97 Grant 
Date Fair Value of Stock Awards 
granted on November 2, 2015 calculated as [total number of shares] multiplied b
y $19.55 
(2)(3)
(4)(1) COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS 
    Outstanding Equity Awards at Year-End.
 The following table outlines outstand
ing long-term equi
ty-based incentive compensation awards for the Named Executive 
Officers as of December 31, 
2015. Each outstanding awar
d is shown separately. The 
Option Award columns reflect stoc
k appreciation rights. The Stock 
Award columns include 
restricted stock and performance share 
awards, with performance share aw
ards listed in the Equity Incen
tive Plan Award columns. Performa
nce shares settle entirely in 
shares of Company stock, only after thres
hold performance or greater is achieved. Th
e vesting schedule for each award is descri
bed in 
the footnotes to this table. 
     50 Outstandin
g Equity Awards at D
ecember 31, 2015   Option Awards
Stock Awards
Name Number of 
Securities Underlying Unexercised
Options (#) Exercisable  Number of 
Securities Underlying Unexercised 
Options (#) Unexercisable
  Equit
yIncentivePlan Awards: 
Number of
SecuritiesUnderlyingUnexercised
Unearned
Options (#)OptionExercise
Price ($)
OptionExpiration
DateNumberof Shares or Units
 of Stock 
That
 Have Not Vested (#)
Market Value of 
Shares or 
Units of 
Stock 
That HaveNot Vested ($)
   Equit
y Incentive 
Plan 
Awards: 
Number
 of Unearned 
Shares, 
Units or Other 
Rights 
That Have Not Vested
 (#)  EquityIncentive
Plan 
Awards:Market or
Payout 
Value ofUnearnedShares,Units or
Other 
Rights 
That HaveNot 
Vested 
($)
Greg D. Carmichael
   60,000   Š          Š  $37.58
 1/23/2016 Š  Š      Š        Š     71,100   
Š          
Š  $39.36 4/7/2016 
Š  Š      
Š        
Š     66,667   Š          Š  $38.27
 4/9/2017 Š  Š      Š        Š     84,615   
Š          
Š  $19.26 4/15/2018 
Š  Š      
Š        
Š     125,000   Š          Š  $3.96
 4/21/2019 Š  Š      Š        Š     185,476   
Š          
Š  $13.36 4/19/2021 
Š  Š      
Š        
Š     177,306   59,101        Š  $14.36
 4/17/2022 Š  Š      Š        Š     70,724   70,723        
Š  $16.15 4/16/2023 
Š  Š      
Š        
Š     20,578   61,734        Š  $21.63
 4/15/2024 Š  Š      Š        Š     
Š     56,933        
Š  $18.78 2/11/2025 
Š  Š      
Š        
Š     Š     Š          Š  Š  Š  4,698  $94,430    Š        Š     
Š     
Š          
Š  Š  Š  17,748  $356,735    
Š        
Š     Š     Š          Š  Š  Š  26,504  $532,730    Š        Š     
Š     
Š          
Š  Š  Š  43,817  $880,722    
Š        
Š     Š     Š          Š  Š  Š  102,302  $2,056,270    Š        Š     
Š     
Š          
Š  Š  Š  Š  Š      39,963      $803,256 
   Š     Š          Š  Š  Š  Š  Š      33,684      $677,048    
Š     
Š          
Š  Š  Š  Š  Š      49,294      $990,809 
(19)
(1)(2)(3)
(4)(5)(7)(8)
(10)

(11)

(15)
(16)(17)(18)
COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS
      51 Outstandin
g Equity Awards at D
ecember 31, 2015   Option AwardsStock Awards
Name Number of 
Securities 
Underlying 
Unexercised
Options (#) 
Exercisable  Number of 
Securities 
Underlying 
Unexercised 
Options (#) 
Unexercisable
  Equit
y Incentive 
Plan 
Awards: 
Number of
Securities 
UnderlyingUnexercised
Unearned
Options (#)OptionExercise
Price ($)
OptionExpiration
DateNumber
of Shares
 or Units of Stock That Have
 Not
 Vested 
(#)Market 
Value of Shares or 
Units of 
Stock 
That HaveNot 
Vested 
($)
   Equity Incentive 
Plan Awards: 
Number
 of Unearned 
Shares, 
Units or 
Other 
Rights 
That Have Not 
Vested
 (#)  EquityIncentive
Plan 
Awards:Market or
Payout 
Value ofUnearnedShares,Units or
Other 
Rights 
That HaveNot 
Vested 
($)
Kevin T. Kaba
t   60,000    Š        Š  $37.58
 1/23/2016 Š  Š      Š        Š     71,100    
Š        
Š  $39.36 4/7/2016 
Š  Š      
Š        
Š     233,333    Š        Š  $38.27
 4/9/2017 Š  Š      Š        Š     500,000    
Š        
Š  $40.10 4/23/2017 
Š  Š      
Š        
Š     269,231    Š        Š  $19.26
 4/15/2018 Š  Š      Š        Š     350,000    
Š        
Š  $3.96 4/21/2019 
Š  Š      
Š        
Š     428,571    Š        Š  $13.36
 4/19/2021 Š  Š      Š        Š     398,937    132,978       
Š  $14.36 4/17/2022 
Š  Š      
Š        
Š     164,474    164,473
       Š  $16.15
 4/16/2023 Š  Š      Š        Š     47,856    143,568        $21.63 4/15/2024 
Š  Š      
Š        
Š     Š      138,376
        $18.78
 2/11/2025             
Š      
Š        
Š  Š  Š  7,361  $147,956    
Š        
Š     Š      Š        Š  Š  Š  41,275  $829,628    Š        Š     
Š      
Š        
Š  Š  Š  61,636  $1,238,884    
Š        
Š     Š      Š        Š  Š  Š  106,496  $2,140,570    Š        Š     
Š      
Š        
Š  Š  Š  Š  Š      92,937      $1,868,034 
   Š      Š        Š  Š  Š  Š  Š      78,335      $1,574,534    
Š      
Š        
Š  Š  Š  Š  Š      119,808      $2,408,141 
Tayfun Tuzun
   3,923    Š        Š  $19.26
 4/15/2018 Š  Š      Š        Š     6,000    
Š        
Š  $3.96 4/21/2019 
Š  Š      
Š        
Š     4,615    Š        Š  $14.80
 4/20/2020 Š  Š      Š        Š     5,714    
Š        
Š  $13.36 4/19/2021 
Š  Š      
Š        
Š     22,164    7,387       Š  $14.36
 4/17/2022 Š  Š      Š        Š     8,224    8,223       
Š  $16.15 4/16/2023 
Š  Š      
Š        
Š     8,614    25,842       Š  $21.63
 4/15/2024 Š  Š      Š        Š     
Š      22,417       
Š  $18.78 2/11/2025          
   Š      Š        Š  Š  Š  2,176  $43,738    Š        Š     
Š      
Š        
Š  Š  Š  783  $15,738    
Š        
Š     Š      Š        Š  Š  Š  2,063  $41,466    Š        Š     
Š      
Š        
Š  Š  Š  11.094  $222,989    
Š        
Š     Š      Š        Š  Š  Š  17,252  $346,765    Š        Š     
Š      
Š        
Š  Š  Š  Š  Š  Š      4,647      $93,405 
   Š      Š        Š  Š  Š  Š  Š  Š      14,100      $283,410    
Š      
Š        
Š  Š  Š  Š  Š  Š      19,409      $390,121 
(19)
(1)(2)(3)(4)(5)(7)
(8)(10)

(11)
(16)(17)

(18)
(1)2)(3)
(4)
(5)(6)(7)(8)(10)

(11)
(16)
(17)(18)COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS 
      52 Outstandin
g Equity Awards at D
ecember 31, 2015   Option Awards
Stock AwardsName Number of 
Securities Underlying Unexercised
Options (#) ExercisableNumber of 
Securities 
Underlying 
Unexercised 
Options (#) Unexercisable
  Equit
yIncentivePlan 
Awards: 
Number of
SecuritiesUnderlyingUnexercised
Unearned
Options (#)OptionExercise
Price ($)
OptionExpiration
DateNumber
of Shares
 or Units of Stock 
That Have
 Not Vested 
(#) Market 
Value of Shares or 
Units of 
Stock 
That HaveNot Vested ($)
   Equity Incentive 
Plan Awards: 
Number of Unearned 
Shares, Units or Other 
Rights That Have Not Vested (#)  EquityIncentive
Plan 
Awards:Market or
Payout 
Value ofUnearnedShares,Units or
Other 
Rights 
That HaveNot 
Vested 
($)
Lars C. Anderson
   Š   Š          Š  Š  Š  158,144    3,178,694    Š        Š      
        
   
         
Timoth
y N. Spence
   Š   Š          Š  Š  Š  35,582   $715,198    Š        Š     
Š   
Š          
Š  Š  Š  158,144   $3,178,694    
Š        
Š                          Frank R. Forres
t   9,572 28,713        
Š  $21.63 4/15/2024             
   Š   24,908
        Š  $18.78
 2/11/2025                
Š   
Š           
Š  Š  Š  12,320   $247,632    
Š        
Š     Š   Š   
        Š  Š  Š  12,327   $247,773    Š        Š     
Š   
Š           
Š  Š  Š  19,169   $385,297    
Š        
Š     Š   Š   
        Š  Š  Š  26,357   $529,776    Š        Š                    15,667      $314,907 
                  21,565      $433,457 Daniel T. Poston
   30,000 
Š          
Š  $37.58 1/23/2016 
Š    
Š      
Š        
Š     35,550 Š          Š  $39.36
 4/7/2016 Š    Š      Š        Š     26,667 
Š          
Š  $38.27 4/9/2017 
Š    
Š      
Š        
Š     30,769 Š          Š  $19.26
 4/15/2018 Š    Š      Š        Š     40,000 
Š          
Š  $3.96 4/21/2019 
Š    
Š      
Š        
Š     104,762 Š          Š  $13.36
 4/19/2021 Š    Š      Š        Š     101,951 33,983         $14.36 4/17/2022 
Š    
Š      
Š        
Š     43,586 43,585
        Š  $16.15
 4/16/2023 Š    Š      Š        Š     11,016 33,045        
Š  $21.63 4/15/2024 
Š    
Š      
Š        
Š     Š   32,173
        Š  $18.78
 2/11/2025                
Š   
Š          
Š  Š  Š  2,741   $55,094    
Š        
Š     Š   Š          Š  Š  Š  10,937   $219,834    Š        Š     
Š   
Š          
Š  Š  Š  14,187   $285,159    
Š        
Š     Š   Š          Š  Š  Š  24,760   $497,676    Š        Š     
Š   
Š          
Š  Š  Š  Š    
Š      24,628      $495,023 
   Š   Š          Š  Š  Š  Š    Š      18,031      $362,423    
Š   
Š          
Š  Š  Š  Š    
Š      27,855      $559,886 
(19)
(12)
(13)
(14)
(4)(5)(9)
(10)

(11)
(12)(17)(18)
(1)(2)
(3)
(4)(5)(7)(8)
(10)

(11)
(16)
(17)(18)
COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS
                                          Option Exercises and Stock Vested.
 The following table outlines stock appreciation rights and stock options exercised and 
restricted stock, performance share awards, an
d long-term cash that vested during 2015. 
       Pension Benefits.
 The following table illustrates the 
payments in connection with retirement, shown for each retirement plan. 
The table shows the present value of accumu
lated benefits payable to each of the Na
med Executive Officers, 
including the number of 
years of service credited to each
 such Named Executive Officer under The Fifth Th
ird Bancorp Master Retirement Plan (the ﬁMaste
r Retirement Planﬂ) determined using interest 
   53 (1)A portion of the awards issued in 2009 prior to the Interim Final Rule on TARP Standards for Compensation and Corporate Gove
rnance issued by the U.S. Department of 
the Treasury on June 15, 2009 were forfeited in 2011 in order to comply with the Interim Final Rule. The value for the 2009 SAR
 award is the maximum possible award 
value, assuming a minimum proration factor calculated using the expiration date as the end date for the time awards are conside
red outstanding (proration is based on the 
number of days the executive officer was considered a TARP MHCE divided by the total number of days the award is considered out
standing). The award value will be 
less if the executive officer decides to exercise prior to the expiration date. 
(2)All unvested shares are scheduled to vest on April 17, 2016. 
(3)One-fourth of the unexercisable shares will vest on each of April 16, 2016, and 2017. 
(4)One-fourth of the unexercisable shares will vest on each of April 15, 2016, 2017, and 2018. 
(5)One-fourth of the unexercisable shares will vest on each of February 11, 2016, 2017, 2018, and 2019. 
(6)All unvested shares are scheduled to vest on April 17, 2016. 
(7)All unvested shares are scheduled to vest on February 19, 2016. 
(8)All unvested shares are scheduled to vest on April 16, 2016. 
(9)All unvested shares are scheduled to vest on October 1, 2016. 
(10)One-third of the unvested shares will vest on each of April 15, 2016, and 2017. 
(11)One-third of the unvested shares will vest on each of February 11, 2016, 2017, and 2018. 
(12)All unvested shares are scheduled to vest on October 1, 2018. 

(13)One-third of the unvested shares will vest on each of October 1, 2016, 2017, and 2018. 
(14)One-fourth of the unvested shares will vest on each of October 1, 2016, 2017, 2018, and 2019. 
(15)One-third of the unvested shares will vest on each of November 2, 2016, 2017, and 2018. 
(16)All unvested shares are scheduled to vest on April 16, 2016, sub
ject to achievement of stated performance 
goals. (17)All unvested shares are scheduled to vest on April 15, 2017, sub
ject to achievement of stated performance 
goals. (18)All unvested shares are scheduled to vest on Februar
y 11, 2018, sub
ject to achievement of stated performance 
goals. (19)Values are based on December 31, 2015 closin
g price of the Compan
y™s common stock of $20.10 and performance shares are based on achievement of tar
get performance. 
2015 Option Exercises & Stock Vested
  Option Awards
Stock AwardsNameNumber of Shares
Acquired on 
Exercise (#)
Value Realized
on Exercise ($)
Number of Shares 
Acquired on Vesting
(#)  Value Realized
on Vesting ($)Gre
g D. Carmichael  Š   Š  49,742
   $953,107
 Kevin T. Kaba
t   108,990  
 $2,087,931 
Tayfun Tuzun
   11,134
   $212,964
 Lars C. Anderson
  Š   
Š  Š    
  Š  Timothy N. Spence
  Š   Š  Š      Š  Frank R. Forres
t  Š   
Š  18,487  
 $351,932 
Daniel T. Poston
  Š   Š  28,781
   $551,543
 (1)There were no option exercises for Named Executive Officers in 2015. 
(2)The dollar figures in the table represent the value on the vest date for stock awards. 
(1)(2)
COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS 
    rates and mortality rate assumptions consi
stent with those used in th
e Company™s Financial Statements (disclosed in Note 21 
ﬁRetirement and Benefit Plansﬂ located 
on pages 142-145 of the Company™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2015).  The Master Retirement Plan was frozen as
 of November 15, 1998 except for employees who were at least age 50 and had 15 
years of credited service as of
 December 31, 1998. For the purpos
e of computing a bene
fit under these plans on December 31, 201
5, Mr. Kabat has a frozen benefit related to his service with Old Ke
nt Financial Corporation. His an
nual benefit at age 65 would b
e approximately $65,400. Messrs. Carmichael, Tuzun, Anderson, Sp
ence, Forrest and Post
on joined the Company after these plans 
were frozen and therefore are no
t eligible to participate. 
 The figures in the table below were calcula
ted as of December 31, 2015 using the earlies
t age (or current age, if older) at whi
ch the Named Executive Officer may reti
re under the plan without a reduction of benefits due to age. 
 The benefits under the Master Retirement Plan for Mr. Kabat are calculated using the highest five out of the last 10 years of 
eligible wages, which generally includes W-2 pay including pre-ta
x deferrals. The normal benefit 
is equal to 1.68% of average 
monthly compensation plus 0.625% of average monthly earnings in
 excess of his Social Security
 covered compensation. This 
monthly benefit was converted to a present 
value in the table below. Mr. Kabat becam
e eligible for early retirement upon becomi
ng 
55 years old. 
 Mr. Kabat™s credited service is as of the date the Old Kent Re
tirement Income Plan was frozen on March 10, 2002. His actual 
service with the Company is over 33 
years. There is no additional value on
 a termination basis for Mr. Kabat. 
   Nonqualified Deferred Compensation.
 The Company maintains a Nonqualified 
Deferred Compensation Plan (NQDCP) that 
allows participant and Company contributions. 
 Participants are able to defer all but $50,000 of their base 
salary and 100% of their annual
 cash incentive co
mpensation award. Beginning January 1, 2007, participants were able to diversify th
eir investments into investment 
alternatives that are similar 
to those 
that are available in the Company™s 401(k) plan. 
 In addition, the Company makes contributions for loss of qualified 401(k) plan matching contributions due to base salary or 
annual cash incentive compensation deferrals or due to IRS wage and/or contribution limitations under the qualified 401(k) plan
. The Company™s contribution to this plan is determined by taking the 
   54 2015 Pension Benefits
NamePlan NameNumber 
of Years Credited
Service 
(#)  Present 
Value of Accumulated
Benefit ($)  Payments
During
2015 ($)Gre
g D. Carmichael Š Š    
  Š    
 Š  Kevin T. Kaba
t Master Retirement Plan19.75    677,300
   Š  Tayfun Tuzun
 Š Š    
  Š    
 Š  Lars C. Anderson
 Š Š      Š     Š  Timothy N. Spence
 Š Š    
  Š    
 Š  Frank R. Forres
t Š Š      Š     Š  Daniel T. Poston
 Š Š    
  Š    
 Š  COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS
    participant™s eligible wages above the qualified 401(k) plan compensation limits ($265,000 for 2015) and applying the Company™s
 401(k) match (7%) percent. If other qualified plan 401(k) limita
tions applied, the participants would also have contributions m
ade to the plan for those limitations. 
 Distributions are made in a lump sum or in up to ten annua
l installments. The Named Executi
ve Officers may elect when the 
payments commence. The earliest di
stribution is August of the calen
dar year following the year of
 retirement. The entire distri
bution 
may be made no later than the tenth calendar year following the year of retirement. This plan is intended to comply with the 
requirements of Section 409(A) of the Internal Revenue Code. 
 The following table illustrates 
the nonqualified deferred compensation benefits. It includes each
 Named Executive Officer™s and the Company™s contributions (each of which are reflected in the amounts disc
losed in the 2015 Summary Co
mpensation Table) under
 the nonqualified plan as well as the earnings during 2015 but it does not reflect matching 401(k) or discretionary contribution
s made 
under the qualified plan. 
     POTENTIAL PAYMENTS UPON TERMINATION OR CHANGE-IN-CONTROL 
 The treatment of equity-based 
awards, under all termination scenarios, is di
ctated by the 2004, 2008, 2011 and 2014 Incentive 
Compensation Plans, which were approved by shareholders on Marc
h 23, 2004, April 15, 2008, April 19, 2011, and April 15, 2014 
respectively. The design of the 2004 plan, including the vesting provisions under which equity awards continue to vest upon 
retirement and accelerate upon a change-in-
control, was determined by
 the Committee to be approp
riate and consistent with 
competitive practice among the Company™s peers at that time. The 2008, 2011 and 2014 plans provide immediate vesting upon a 
change-in-control only upon involuntary separation from service 
within two years after a change-i
n-control (i.e., a double-trig
ger). 
 The Company™s change-in-control policies were also determined by the Committ
ee to provide appropriate benefits based on a 
competitive review of the Compensation Peer Group and published guidance at the time of their adoption from institutional 
shareholder groups such as ISS and CalPERS. 
 These arrangements fit into the Company™s 
overall compensation objectives as they are viewed to
 be competitive, but not excessive, relative to our Compensation Peer 
Group, and allow us to attract
 and retain qualified senior executives. However, th
ese arrangements impact neither the 
compensation target levels that 
are based on market median co
mpensation, nor 
the compensation awards that are based on a variety 
of performance factors, as described in this proxy statement. 
   55 2015 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation
Name Plan ExecutiveContributions
in 2015 ($)RegistrantContributions
in 2015 ($)Aggregate Earnings
in 2015
 ($)  Aggregate Withdrawals 
/Distributions 
($)  AggregateBalance at
December 31,
2015 ($)Gre
g D. Carmichael  NQDCP
 $314,563 
$103,421 
($47,439) 
  Š    
 $4,107,851 
Kevin T. Kaba
t  NQDCP
 $496,227
 $166,584
 ($16,752
)   Š     $3,435,190
 Tayfun Tuzun
  NQDCP
 $86,266 
$38,854 
($42,986) 
  Š    
 $755,708 
Lars C. Anderson
  NQDCP
 Š  Š  Š     Š      Š  Timothy N. Spence
  NQDCP
 Š  Š  Š     Š    
  Š  Frank R. Forres
t  NQDCP
 Š  $50,267
 $269
    Š     $74,867
 Daniel T. Poston
  NQDCP
 Š  Š  ($25,361) 
  Š    
 $205,579 
(1)The Company maintains a nonqualified deferred compensation plan. The investments under this plan would produce earnings equa
l to those of any other investor who 
invested like mone
y in like investments for the same time period durin
g the year. (1)
(1)

(1)

(1)

(1)

(1)

(1)
COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS 
    The estimated payouts under a variety of
 termination scenarios for the Named Executive Officers are shown below. For all 
termination scenarios, the figu
res reflect unvested long-term 
equity-based incentive compensatio
n awards as of December 31, 201
5, and at the closing stock price of $20.10 on that date. 
 Voluntary or Without Cause.
 The Company does not currently 
have contracts with its Named 
Executive Officers that would 
require cash severance payments upon voluntary termination. If the Named Executive Officer were retirement eligible, he would 
continue vesting in outstanding equity awards, the values of wh
ich are included in the table be
low. The Named Executive Officer
™s termination would not result in enhanced retirement benefits beyond
 the benefits described in the Pension Benefits Section. Eli
gibility 
for other payments would be determined in a manner consistent with all officers of the Company. 
 With Cause.
 The Company does not currently ha
ve contracts with its Named Executi
ve Officers that would require cash 
severance payments upon involuntary termination. Under the terms of the 2004, 2008, 2011 and 2014 Incentive Compensation Plans,
 if the Named Executive Officer is
 retirement eligible he may continue vesting in 
outstanding equity awards, the values of which
 are included in the table below. The Named Ex
ecutive Officer™s termination would not result in enhanced retirement benefits. Eligib
ility 
for other payments would be determined in a manner consistent with all officers of the Company. 
 Death and Disability.
 Under the terms of the 2004, 2008, 2011 and 2014 Incentive Compensation Plans all outstanding awards 
vest immediately. Performance shares are 
earned on a prorated basis based on the Name
d Executive Officer™s full months of servi
ce and are adjusted based on the ach
ievement of the performance goals for the full performance period. The Named Executive Officer
s™ 
termination would not result in enhanced retirement benefits, beyo
nd the benefits described in the Pension Benefits section. In
 the event of death, the defined benefit pension would be a 50% joint and survivor payout and the 401(k) Plan would immediately vest
. Eligibility for other payouts would be determined in a ma
nner consistent with all ot
her officers of the Company. 
 Change-in-Control.
 As described in the ﬁSeverance and Change-in-C
ontrol Benefitsﬂ section,
 the Company™s Executive 
Change-in-Control Severance Plan provides 
for the payment of benefits upon termination following a change-in-control (a ﬁtrigge
ring 
eventﬂ) for the Named Executive Officers and ot
her officers of the Company. In exchange for the payments and benefits under the
 plan, the eligible Named Executive Officer wo
uld be required to sign an agreement at th
e time of the triggering event to not co
mpete with, nor solicit employees or customers fr
om, the Company for a period 
of three years following the 
officer™s termination. For
ms of 
these agreements would be filed with
 the Company™s s
ecurities filings.  The cash severance payment would be equal to 2.99 times the Name
d Executive Officer™s base salary
 plus his target annual cash 
incentive compensation awar
d, except for Messrs. Spence and Fo
rrest who would receive 2.0 times 
base salary. In addition, the 
Named Executive Officer would earn a pro-rate
d VCP award for the fiscal year of the 
termination. The table below reflects an 
assumed full-year VCP award at the amount each Named Executive 
Officer would be eligible to 
receive if the Company achieves 
100% of its annual performance incentiv
e target under the Annual Incentive Plan
. Mr. Poston™s participation in the plan expired on 
his separation date. Therefore, he is
 excluded from the tables below. 
 Upon a change-in-control, as defined in ou
r Incentive Compensation Plan
s approved by shareholders, 
outstanding equity awards 
(stock options, stock appreciation rights, and restricted stock awards) granted prior to April 15, 2008 would vest immediately.
 This is true for all equity award recipients, not just for the Company™
s Named Executive Officers. Perfor
mance shares would be deemed 
earned and paid out based on the greater of the extent which applicable performance goals have been met up through and includin
g the effective date of the change-i
n-control, or the target number of performance 
shares determined at the date of grant. The va
lue of performance shares would be calcu
lated based on the current market
 value of the Company™s stock 
on the date of the change-in-
control times the earned number of performance 
shares. The table below reflects an assumed 
   56 COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS
    payout each Named Executive Officer would be eligible to receive if the Company 
achieves 100% of its 
performance goals for each
 outstanding performance sh
are award. Awards granted after April 15, 2008, contain double-trigger vesting provisions under which
 accelerated vesting will apply in the event of
 involuntary termination of employment within two year
s after the change-in-contr
ol. 
 The Named Executive Officer would receive three additional years of age and se
rvice credit under the qualified and 
nonqualified defined contribution plans, three years of medical, dental and life insurance benefits, and the additional value, 
if any, of 
the pension benefit at age 60 (which are re
flected in the Other Benefits
 and Potential Excise Tax Gr
oss-Up category below) upon
 a triggering event. The Named Execu
tive Officer™s termination would not result in enhanced retirement benefits, beyond the benefi
ts described in the Pension Benefits section. 
 Material differences in circumstances re
late to retirement eligibility, as desc
ribed above. As of December 31, 2015, 
Mr. Carmichael is the only one of our Named Executive Officers that is retirement eligible under any outstanding equity 
compensation award agreements, whic
h provide for continuing vesting of their outstanding equity awards. 
 The tables below contain the total pa
yments under each termination scenario
.          57 Termination Scenarios 
NameVoluntar
yor Without 
Cause  With 
Cause  Death or
Disability
Gre
g D. Carmichael Š      Š    
 $10,821,274 
Kevin T. Kaba
t Š      Š     $14,932,004
 Tayfun Tuzun
 Š      Š    
 $2,362,784 
Lars C. Anderson
 Š      Š     $3,186,441
 Timothy N. Spence
 Š      Š    
 $3,899,076 
Frank R. Forres
t Š      Š     $1,890,109
 (1)Unvested equit
y and/or retirement benefits are the onl
y eligible form of pa
yment in each of the termination scenarios 
Involuntar
y Termination Upon a Chan
ge-in-Control 
NameCash Severance Unvested
EquityPotential Excise
Tax Gross-Up
Other Benefits
  TotalGre
g D. Carmichael $8,027,500  
$7,085,748 
$0 
$5,244,416  
 $20,357,664 
Kevin T. Kaba
t $9,335,720
  $11,803,363
 $0 $6,223,594
   $27,362,677
 Tayfun Tuzun
 $3,303,893  
$1,542,105 
$0 
$1,462,336  
 $6,308,335 
Lars C. Anderson
 $5,010,756
  $3,178,694
 $0 $355,133
   $8,544,583
 Timothy N. Spence
 $2,850,016  
$3,893,893 
$0 
$189,991  
 $6,933,900 
Frank R. Forres
t $2,565,032
  $2,191,719
 $0 $274,115
   $5,052,033
 1COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS 
    DIRECTOR COMPENSATION 
 The following table illustrates the 2015 compensation structur
e for non-employee directors. Employee directors receive no 
compensation for their Boar
d service. In addition to the co
mpensation described below, non-em
ployee directors are reimbursed fo
r reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred 
for travel and attendance related to meetings
 of the Board of Directors or its commi
ttees. To the extent available, non-employee dir
ectors may travel on corporate aircraft fo
r board or committee 
meetings where their attendance is expected. Non-employee dir
ectors are not authorized to
 use corporate aircraft for their personal use. 
     The Company™s 2014 Incentive Compensation 
Plan provides that the Committee has fu
ll authority to provide equity-based or 
other incentive awards to non-employee directors. Equity-based awards shown in the table below were granted under the 2014 
Incentive Compensation Plan. The 
Company has a stock ownership guideline for its di
rectors of shares havi
ng a value equal to at
 least $250,000. 
 Pursuant to a Deferred Compensation Pl
an, directors may annually defer from one-h
alf to all of their cash compensation as directors. The deferred funds r
eceive earnings based on the mutual
 fund(s) elected by each direct
or or the directors may elect 
a rate equal to the rate of return on the Compan
y™s common stock. The direct
ors do not receive any above-m
arket or preferential earnin
gs.    58 Element of Compensation
   2015 Amount Annual retainer (cash)
  Director $50,000  
 Lead Director $100,000
   Chairman $200,000  
Annual committee chair retainer (cash)  Audit
 $17,500
   Finance $50,000  
 Human Capital & Compensation
 $15,000
   Nominatin
g & Corporate Governance
 $10,000  
  Risk & Compliance
 $15,000
  Board meeting fees Œ per meeting (cash)  $2,000  
Committee meetin
g fees Œper meeting (cash)  $2,000
  Restricted stock units
  $100,000  
(1)The Board Chair is not eli
gible for Board meetin
g fees or Committee meetin
g fees. 
(2)$250,000 for Chairman; all LTI granted to the Board of Directors vests on Board service end date, unless deferral instructio
ns are received prior to the year the grant is 
made. 112 COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS
    The following table summarizes the compen
sation earned by or awarded to each non
-employee director who served on the 
Board of Directors during 2015. The Stock Awards and Option Awards columns in the table display the grant date fair value 
associated with the equity awards. The am
ounts listed in the Stock Awards column re
present a restricted stock unit award which 
vests once service as a director ends. 
The award relates to the fiscal year in which 
it was granted. Directors did not receive any Op
tion 
Awards or Non-Equity Incentive Plan Compensation in 2015. 
           59 2015 Director Compensation 
Name Fees
Earned or Paid in Cash ($)  Stock Awards($) OptionAwards($)
Non-EquityIncentive Plan
Compensation
($)
Change in Pension Value 
& Nonqualified
Deferred 
Compensation 
Earnings
 ($)  All Other 
Compensation
($)   Total($)Nicholas K. Akins
  $166,000  
 $100,000 
Š  Š  Š    
 $4,362  
 $270,362 
B. Evan Ba
yh  $128,000
   $100,000
 Š  Š  Š     $15,564
   $243,564
 Jorge L. Benitez
  $41,000  
  Š   
Š  Š  Š    
 $3,945  
 $44,945 
Katherine B. Blackburn  $108,000
   $100,000
 Š  Š  Š     $1,368
   $209,368
 Ulysses L. Brid
geman, Jr.  $113,000  
 $100,000 
Š  Š  Š    
 $11,035  
 $224,035 
Emerson L. Brumbac
k  $185,500
   $100,000
 Š  Š  Š     $11,976
   $297,476
 James P. Hacket
t  $200,000  
 $250,000 
Š  Š  Š    
 $18,983  
 $468,983 
Gary R. Hemin
ger  $202,000
   $100,000
 Š  Š  Š     $11,035
   $313,035
 Jewell D. Hoove
r  $183,000  
 $100,000 
Š  Š  Š    
 $14,346  
 $297,346 
Mitchel D. Livin
gston, Ph.D.
  $43,000
    Š   Š  Š  Š     $8,466
   $51,466
 Michael B. McCallister  $116,000  
 $100,000 
Š  Š  Š    
 $20,489  
 $236,489 
Hendrik G. Mei
jer  $140,000
   $100,000
 Š  Š  Š     $7,865
   $247,865
 Marsha C. Williams
  $255,000  
 $100,000 
Š  Š  Š    
 $14,752  
 $369,752 
(1)Non-employee directors of Fifth Third Bancorp who also serve as directors of our subsidiary, Fifth Third Bank, receive attendanc
e fees for each board or committee 
meetin
g attended. Attendance fees are identical to the schedule of fees paid to directors of Fifth Third Bancorp and are included in t
hese totals. 
(2)Outstandin
g Stock Awards for current directors totaled 219,400 shares as of December 31, 2015. 
(3)There were no options awarded to directors in 2015. Outstandin
g Option Awards for current directors totaled 1,000 shares as of December 31, 2015. 
(1) 
(2)(4)(5)
(3)(6)
 COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS 
                60 Director
 Number of Outstanding 
Option Awards
 Nicholas K. Akins
   Š    
B. Evan Ba
yh   Š    Jorge L. Benitez
   Š    
Katherine B. Blackburn   Š    Ulysses L. Brid
geman, Jr.   500  
Emerson L. Brumbac
k   Š    James P. Hacket
t   Š    
Gary R. Hemin
ger   Š    Jewell D. Hoove
r   500  
Mitchel D. Livin
gston, Ph.D.
   Š    Michael B. McCallister   Š    
Hendrik G. Mei
jer   Š    Marsha C. Williams
   Š    
(4)The full fair value of stock awards granted in 2015 totaled $1,350,000: 
Director
  Grant Date SharesGranted
 Grant Date Fair Value o
fRestricted Stock AwardsNicholas K. Akins
    4/14/2015 
 5,260 
 $100,000 
B. Evan Ba
yh    4/14/2015
  5,260
  $100,000
 Jorge L. Benitez
    4/14/2015 
 5,260 
 $100,000 
Katherine B. Blackburn    4/14/2015
  5,260
  $100,000
 Ulysses L. Brid
geman, Jr.    4/14/2015 
 5,260 
 $100,000 
Emerson L. Brumbac
k    4/14/2015
  5,260
  $100,000
 James P. Hacket
t    4/14/2015 
 13,151 
 $250,000 
Gary R. Heminge
r    4/14/2015
  5,260
  $100,000
 Jewell D. Hoove
r    4/14/2015 
 5,260 
 $100,000 
Michael B. McCallister    4/14/2015
  5,260
  $100,000
 Hendrik G. Mei
jer    4/14/2015 
 5,260 
 $100,000 
Marsha C. Williams
    4/14/2015
  5,260
  $100,000
 (5)Assumptions used in determining fair value are disclosed in Note 24 ﬁStock Based Compensationﬂlocated on pages 149-152 of th
e Company™s Annual Report on Form 10-
K for the year ended December 31, 2015. 
(6)Amounts include restricted stock dividends and travel and expense reimbursements. 
COMPENSATION OF NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS
    COMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND INSIDER PARTICIPATION 
 In 2015, the Human Capital and Compensation Committee member
s were Messrs. Akins, Heming
er, McCallister, and Meijer, 
and Ms. Williams. No Executive Officer of th
e Company serves on any board of director
s or compensation comm
ittee of any entity that compensates any member of the Hu
man Capital and Compensation Committee. 
 COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT  The following Report of the Human Capital and Compensation Committee does not constitute soliciting material and should not 
be deemed filed or incorporated by refere
nce into any other Company f
iling under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except
 to the extent the Company specifically incorpor
ates this Report by reference therein. 
 The Human Capital and Compensation Comm
ittee has reviewed and discussed with 
management the preceding Compensation 
Discussion and Analysis (ﬁCD&Aﬂ) as well 
as the accompanying tables 
set forth in the section ti
tled ﬁCompensation of Named 
Executive Officers and Directors.ﬂ Based on that discussion, the Committee recomme
nded to the Board of Directors that the CD&A 
be included in this proxy statement an
d incorporated into the Co
mpany™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
December 31, 2015.  Marsha C. Williams, Chair 
 Nicholas K. Akins 
 Gary R. Heminger 
 Michael B. McCallister  Hendrik G. Meijer 
   61 CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS 
The Charter of the Company™s Human Ca
pital and Compensation Committee re
quires that the Human Capital and 
Compensation Committee pre-approve all related party or affiliate
 transactions between the Company and any of its affiliates, 
directors, officers and/or employees or in which any of such persons directly or indirectly is interested or benefited, other t
han for 
extensions of credit otherwise covered by policies and procedures governed by Federal Reserve Regulation O. 
 Certain of these related party transactions are required to
 be disclosed by the Company in this proxy statement: 
 One of the Company™s dir
ectors, Katherine B. Black
burn, is the Executive Vice President of the Cincinnati Bengals professional 
football team. She and members of her immediat
e family own substantially all of the equity interests in the parent company of t
he 
Cincinnati Bengals. During 2015, the Company paid the Cinc
innati Bengals approximately $1.5 million for sponsorship 
arrangements, tickets and advertising expenses. Prior to Ms. Blackburn™s appointment to the Board, in September 2014 the Compan
y and the Cincinnati Bengals signed a 5 year
 contract extension 
for these arrangements that call 
for total payments by the Compan
y during that period of over $7.9 million. By virtue of Ms. Blackburn™s being an executive officer and a principal owner of the 
Cincinnati Bengals, she is deemed to be a related party ha
ving a direct material inte
rest in these arrangements. 
 Joshua Livingston is employed by Fifth Third Bank as a Vi
ce President and Large Corporate 
Healthcare Relationship Manager 
III. He is the son of one of the Company™s former directors, Dr. Mitchel D. Livingston, who retired from the Board in April 201
5. In 
2015, Joshua Livingston received compensation of approximately $173,100 including base salary and incentive compensation as wel
l as benefits generally available to similarly situated employees
. This compensation package was 
established by the Company in 
accordance with its employment and compensatio
n policies and practices applicable to empl
oyees with equivalent qualifications a
nd responsibilities in similar positions. 
 Daniel Johnston is employed by Fifth Thir
d Bank as a Vice President. He is the son-
in-law of the Company™s retiring director 
and Vice Chairman of the 
Board and retired Chief Ex
ecutive Officer, Kevin Kabat.
 In 2015, Mr. Johnston 
received compensation of approximately $147,000 including base salary
 and incentive compensation as well as benefits generally available to similarly si
tuated employees.  Kevin Hipskind is employed by Fifth Third Bank as an Executive 
Vice President. He is the brot
her-in-law of Philip McHugh, 
who is an Executive Vice 
President of the Company. In 201
5, Mr. Hipskind receive
d compensation of appr
oximately $292,480 including base salary and incentive compensation as well as be
nefits generally available to similarly situated employees. 
 Timothy Smith, Jr., is employed by Fifth Third Bank as an officer
 and indirect lending underwriter. He is the brother of Teresa
 Tanner, who is an Executive Vice President 
of the Company. In 2015, Mr. Smith receive
d compensation of ap
proximately $129,530 including base salary and incentive compensation as well as be
nefits generally available to similarly situated employees. 
 The compensation packages of Joshua Li
vingston, Danny Johnston, Kevin Hipskind and Timothy Sm
ith were each established 
by the Company in accord
ance with its employment and compensation policies and practices appli
cable to employees with equivalent
 qualifications and responsibilities in similar positions. 
 The Company has also engaged in transactions with certain entities that have reported beneficial ownership of over 5% of its 
common stock. The Company paid State Str
eet Corporation approximatel
y $284,000 in 2015 for cu
stody, accounting and trustee 
services for certain private funds. Additionally, in 2015 the Co
mpany paid BlackRock Financial Management, Inc. approximately 
$2,145,000 for advisory services and tools used to measure risk 
weighted assets and to analyze 
risks in certain investment secu
rities 
and mortgage servicing rights. All of these business relationships 
and transactions were conducted 
at arm™s length in the Compa
ny™s 
ordinary course of business. 
   62 CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS
    Additionally, Fifth Third Bancorp has engaged and intends to conti
nue to engage in the lending of money through its subsidiary 
bank to various of its directors, executive officers and shareholders and corporations or other entities in which they may own 
a controlling interest. The loans to such persons (i) were made in th
e ordinary course of business, (ii) were made on substantial
ly the 
same terms, including interest rates and co
llateral, as those pr
evailing at the time for comparab
le loans with persons not rela
ted to the 
lender, and (iii) did not involve more than a normal risk of 
collectability or did not present other features unfavorable to th
e Company. 
   63 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE 
The following Report of the Audit Committee does not constitute
 soliciting material and should not be deemed filed or 
incorporated by reference into any other Company filing under the 
Securities Act of 1933 or the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
, except to the extent the Company sp
ecifically incorporates
 this Report by reference therein. 
 In accordance with its written charter adopted by the Board of
 Directors (ﬁBoardﬂ), which may be found in the Corporate 
Governance Section of the Company™
s website at www.53.com, the Audit Committee of
 the Board assists the Board in fulfilling its
 responsibility for oversight of 
the quality and integrity of th
e accounting, auditing and financial reporting practices of the 
Company. 
During 2015, the Committee met twelve (12) times, and the 
Committee discussed the interim financial and other information 
contained in each quarterly earnings announcem
ent and periodic filings to th
e Securities and Exchange 
Commission with the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financia
l Officer, Controller and the in
dependent external audit firm
 prior to public release. 
 In discharging its oversight responsibility as to the audit pro
cess, the Committee obtained from 
the independent external audit
 firm a formal written statement 
describing all relationships between the firm and the Company that might bear on the firm™s 
independence consistent with applicable re
quirements of the Public Co
mpany Accounting Oversight Boar
d (United States) regarding
 the independent accountant™s communicati
ons with the audit committee concerning independence, and has discussed with the 
independent accountant the independ
ent accountant™s independence and satisfied itself as to the 
firm™s independence. The Commit
tee also discussed with management, the internal
 auditors and the independent external au
dit firm the quality and adequacy of the Company™s internal controls and the internal audit function™s organization, responsibilities, budget and staffing. The Committe
e reviewed both with the independent external
 audit firm and inte
rnal auditors, their 
audit plans, audit scope and identification
 of audit 
risks.  The Committee discussed and reviewed with 
the independent external audit firm all 
communications required by standards of 
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board, including the matters required to be discussed by Auditing Standard No. 16, 
Communications with Audit Committees
, and Rule 2-07, 
Communication with Audit Committees
, of Regulation S-X, and, with and 
without management present, discussed and reviewed the results of
 the independent external audit 
firm™s examination of the fina
ncial 
statements. The Committee 
also discussed the results of internal audits. 
 The Committee reviewed and discussed the a
udited consolidated financial statements 
of the Company as of and for the year 
ended December 31, 2015, and management™s as
sertion on the design
 and effectiveness of the Comp
any™s internal 
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 20
15 with management and the independent ex
ternal audit firm. Management has the 
responsibility for the preparati
on of the Company™s consolidated financial stat
ements and their assertion on the design and 
effectiveness of the Company™s in
ternal control over financial reporting and the 
independent external audit firm has the respon
sibility 
for the audits of those consol
idated statements and of the 
effectiveness of internal cont
rol over financial reporting. 
 Based on the above-mentioned reviews and discussions with management and the independent external audit firm, the 
Committee recommended to th
e Board that the Company™s audited 
consolidated financial statements
 and report on the effectiveness
 of internal control over 
financial reporting be included in
 its Annual Report on 
Form 10-K for the year
 ended December 31, 2015
, for 
filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Committee 
also appointed the independent external audit firm for 2016. 
 Emerson L. Brum
back, Chairman  Nicholas K. Akins 
 Katherine B. Blackburn 
 Jewell D. Hoover 
   64 PRINCIPAL INDEPENDENT EXTERNAL AUDIT FIRM FEES 
 The following table sets forth the aggregat
e fees billed to Fifth Third Bancorp for th
e fiscal years ended December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014 by the Company™s independent 
external audit firm Deloitte & Touche LLP. 
   The Audit Committee is responsible for pre-approving all auditing se
rvices and permitted non-audit services to be performed by 
the independent external audit fi
rm, except as described below. 
 The Audit Committee will establish general guidelines for the perm
issible scope and nature of any permitted non-audit services 
in connection with its annual review of the audit plan and will re
view such guidelines with the 
Board of Director
s. Pre-approval may 
be granted by action of the full Audit Committee or, in the ab
sence of such Audit Committee act
ion, by the Audit Committee Chai
r whose action shall be considered to be that
 of the entire Committee. Pre-approval sh
all not be required for the provision of no
n-audit 
services if (1) the aggregate amount of all such non-audit servi
ces constitute no more than 5% of the total amount of fees paid
 by the 
Company to the auditors during th
e fiscal year in which the non-audit services ar
e provided, (2) such services were not recogni
zed by the Company at the time of engagement to be non-audit services, 
and (3) such services are promp
tly brought to the attention of 
the Audit Committee and approved prior to the completion of the audit. No services were provided by Deloitte & Touche LLP during 
2015 or 2014 pursuant to this exception. 
   65   December 31,
  2015   
2014Audit Fees  $3,887,038
    $3,875,775
 Audit-Related Fees (a)
  1,147,800  
   1,076,175 
Tax Fees (b)  213,064
     163,119
 All Other Fees (c)
  115,348  
   182,934 
             $5,363,250
    $5,298,003
              (a)Includes fees for services related to benefit plan 
audits, private and other comm
on trust fund audits, stan
d-alone statutory audits, 
examinations of management™s assertion, reports pursuant to 
Statement on Standards for Attest
ation Engagements No. 16, loan 
servicin
g reports and trust compliance. 
(b)Includes fees for services related to tax compliance and tax 
consulting and planning. Of these amounts, for 2015, $113,478 
represents fees for tax compliance services 
and $99,586 represents fees for tax consulting and planning services, and for 2014,
 $74,361 represents fees for tax 
compliance services and $88,758 re
presents fees for tax consultin
g and plannin
g services. (c)Includes fees for subscriptio
n services and certain agree
d-upon procedures in 2015 and 2014. The Audit Committee has 
concluded that the provision of these se
rvices is compatible with maintainin
g the principal accountant™s independence. COMPANY PROPOSAL 1: 
INDEPENDENT EXTERNAL AUDIT FIRM 
 (Item 2 on Proxy Card) 
 The Audit Committee of the Board 
of Directors proposes and reco
mmends that the shareholders 
approve the selection by the 
Committee of the firm of Deloitte & Touche LLP to serve as its 
independent external audit firm 
for the Company for the year 201
6. The firm has served as the independent ex
ternal audit firm for the Bank since 1970 
and the Company since 
1975. Representatives 
of 
Deloitte & Touche LLP will be present at the Annual Meeting to ma
ke such comments as they desi
re and to respond to questions 
from shareholders of the Company. Action by the shareholders is not required by law in the appointment of an independent extern
al audit firm, but their appointment is submitted by the Audit Commi
ttee in order to give the shareholders a voice in the designat
ion of 
the independent external audit firm. If the resolution approving 
Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Co
mpany™s independent external au
dit 
firm is rejected by the shareholders, then the Audit Committee 
will reconsider its choice of independent external audit firm. E
ven if 
the resolution is approved, the Audit Committee at its discretion 
may direct the appoin
tment of a different 
independent externa
l audit 
firm at any time during the year if it dete
rmines that such a change would be in th
e best interests of the Company and its shar
eholders. 
The Audit Committee is dir
ectly responsible for the appointment, compensation, retention and oversight of the Company™s 
independent external audit firm. The Aud
it Committee is also responsible for the audit fee negotiations associated with the 
Company™s retention of Deloitte & Touche LLP. In order to assure continuing auditor independence, the Audit Committee 
periodically considers whether th
ere should be a regular rotation of the independent external audit firm. Additionally, the Aud
it Committee and its Chair are directly
 involved in the selection and mandated rotation of the lead engagement partner from Deloit
te & Touche LLP. 
 The members of the Audit Committ
ee believe that the continued re
tention of Deloitte & Touche LLP to serve as the Company™s 
independent external audit firm is in the best interest of the Company and its investors. 
 VOTE REQUIRED 
 Proxies in the form solicited hereby which are returned to th
e Company will be voted in favor of the resolution unless otherwis
e instructed by the shareholder. Pursuant to
 the Company™s Code of Regulations, the affi
rmative vote of a majority of the shares 
of the 
Company™s common stock present in person or by proxy at the Annual Meeting and entitled to vote on this proposal is required to
 approve the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP. Abstentions 
will have the same effect as a 
vote cast against the proposal. Sh
ares not voted by brokers or other entities holding shares on behalf of
 beneficial owners will not be counted as present to vote on 
this 
proposal and will have no effect on the outcome. 
 THE AUDIT COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTOR
S RECOMMENDS THE ADOPTION
 OF THE RESOLUTION. 
  66 COMPANY PROPOSAL 2
:ADVISORY VOTE ON EXE
CUTIVE COMPENSATION 
 (Item 3 on Proxy Card) 
 As required by Section 14A of 
the Exchange Act, we are seeking advisory sh
areholder approval of 
the compensation of the 
Named Executive Officers as disclosed in this
 proxy statement. This proposal, commonly known as a ﬁSay-on-Payﬂ proposal, gives 
you as a shareholder the opportunity to endorse or not endorse our executive pay program through the following resolution: 
 RESOLVED, that the shareholders advise th
at they approve the co
mpensation of the Company™s Named Executive 
Officers, as disclosed pursuant to the di
sclosure rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission (which disclosure shall 
include the ﬁCompensation Discussion and 
Analysisﬂ section and the compensation ta
bles and any related material in the 
ﬁCompensation of Named Executive Officers 
and Directorsﬂ section of this proxy st
atement for its 2016 Annual Meeting). 
 Because your vote is adviso
ry, it will not be binding upon the Board. However, the 
Human Capital and Compensation 
Committee will take into account the outcome
 of the vote when cons
idering future executive co
mpensation arrangements. 
 As discussed in ﬁCompensation Discussion and Analysisﬂ the 
Human Capital and Compensation Committee has determined that 
the compensation structure for ex
ecutive officers is effective a
nd appropriate and has determined
 that the Company™s aggregate 
2015 
Total Rewards package (and potential payouts
 in the severance and change-in-control s
cenarios) for its Named Executive Officers are reasonable and appropriate. Shareholders ar
e encouraged to read the section of this proxy statement titled ﬁCompensation Discus
sion 
and Analysisﬂ as well as the tabular disc
losure regarding Named Executive Officer co
mpensation together 
with the accompanying narrative disclosure. 
 The Company is currently conducting ﬁSay-on-Payﬂ advisory votes on an annual basis. The next ﬁSay-on-Payﬂ vote is currently 
scheduled for the 2017 Annual Meeting. Ho
wever, please see Company Proposal 3 regarding an advisory vote on the frequency of 
these ﬁSay-on-Payﬂ votes. 
 VOTE REQUIRED 
 Pursuant to the Company™s Code of Regula
tions, the affirmative vote of a majority 
of the shares of th
e Company™s common 
stock present in person or by proxy at the Annual Meeting and en
titled to vote on this proposal is required to approve this adv
isory proposal. Proxies received by the Company an
d not revoked prior to or at the Annual Meeting will be
 voted in favor of this non-
binding advisory proposal unless otherwise instructed by the shareh
older. Abstentions will have th
e same effect as a vote cast 
against the advisory proposal. Shares not voted by brokers and other entities holding shares on behalf of beneficial owners will not be
 counted as present to vote on this proposal
 and will have no effect on the outcome. 
 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS A VOTE ﬁFORﬂ 
ADVISORY APPROVAL OF THE COMPENSATION OF 
THE NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AS DISCLOSED PU
RSUANT TO THE DISCLOSURE RULES OF THE 
SECURITIES AND EXC
HANGE COMMISSION
   67 COMPANY PROPOSAL 3
:ADVISORY VOTE ON FREQUENCY OF 
VOTES ON EXECUTIV
E COMPENSATION  (Item 4 on Proxy Card) 
 As required by Section 14A of the Exchange
 Act, we are seeking adviso
ry shareholder approval of the frequency of advisory 
shareholder votes on compensation of the named ex
ecutive officers through the following resolution: 
 RESOLVED, that the shareholders advise that 
an advisory resolution wi
th respect to executive 
compensation should be 
presented to the shareholders every one, two 
or three years as reflected 
by their votes for each of th
ese alternatives in connec
tion 
with this resolution. 
 In voting on this resolution, you should mark your proxy for one, two or three years based on your preference as to the 
frequency with which an advisory vote on ex
ecutive compensation should be held. If 
you have no preference you should abstain. 
 The Board believes that current best co
rporate practices and govern
ance trends favor an annual advisory vote and has 
determined to hold an annual advi
sory vote. This would give shareholders the oppor
tunity to react promptly
 to emerging trends i
n compensation, and the Board and the Human 
Capital and Compensation Committee the 
opportunity to evaluate compensation 
decisions in light of yearly feedback from shareholders. 
 Because your vote is advisory, 
it will not be binding upon the Board. However, the Board will ta
ke into account the outcome of 
the vote when considering the 
frequency of advisory shareholder approval of
 the compensation of na
med executive officers. 
 Although we are only required to conduct an advisory vote 
on the frequency of votes on 
executive compensation every six years, we believe that holding 
an annual vote will allow the shar
eholders and our Board to promp
tly consider this frequency as 
emerging corporate practices and governance trends develop. 
 VOTE REQUIRED 
 Pursuant to the Company™s Code of Regula
tions, the affirmative vote of a majority 
of the shares of th
e Company™s Common 
Stock present in person or by proxy at the Annual Meeting and entitled to vote on this proposal is required to approve one of t
he selections under this advisory proposal. 
Proxies received by the Compan
y and not revoked prior to or
 at the Annual Meeting will
 be 
voted in favor of ﬁevery 1 yearﬂ unless otherwise instructed by 
the shareholder. Abstentions, and shares not voted by sharehold
ers of record present or represented at the Annual 
Meeting and entitled to vote, will have th
e same effect as a vote cast against this
 advisory 
proposal. Shares not voted by brokers and other entities holding sh
ares on behalf of beneficial owners will not be counted as p
resent 
to vote on this proposal and will have no effect on the outcome. 
 THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS RECOMMENDS HOLDING AN 
ADVISORY VOTE FOR THE APPROVAL OF THE 
COMPENSATION OF THE NAMED EXECUTIVE OFFICERS EVERY ﬁ1 YEARﬂ 
   68 2017 SHAREHOLDER PROPOSALS 
Shareholder Proposals to be
 included in the Company
™s Proxy Statement 
 In order for a shareholder proposal for the 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be eligible for inclusion in the Company™s 
proxy statement, it must comply with the requirements of Rule 
14a-8 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the ﬁExchange Actﬂ)
, and must be received by the Company on or before November
 10, 2016 at the following 
address or facsimile number: 
 Fifth Third Bancorp 
 38 Fountain Square Plaza 
 MD10AT76 
 Cincinnati, Ohio 45263 
 Attn: Corporate Secretary  Facsimile: (513) 534-6757 
 Shareholder Proposals not 
included in the Company
™s Proxy Statement  Any shareholder who intends to propose any matter to be acted upon at the 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders without such 
proposal being included in the Company™s proxy statement as a sh
areholder proposal must send a 
notice to the Corporate Secretar
y using the address and facsimile nu
mber listed above no earlier than January 19, 2017 and no later than February 18, 2017. If th
e notice is not provided by February 18, 2017, the persons named as proxies for the 2017 Annual Meeting will be allowed to exerci
se discretionary authority to vote upon such additional proposal without describing in the proxy statement for the 2017 Annual Mee
ting 
how they intend to vote on it. 
 The notice to the Corporate Secr
etary must meet the requiremen
ts set forth in the Company™s Code of Regulations which are 
summarized below.  The notice must include: 
         
  
  The notice must also include: 
     69  Ł the name and address of the record shar
eholder as they appear on the Company™
s books and the name and address of any 
beneficial owner of the shares on whose 
behalf the record shareholder is acting, 
and, if different, 
the current name and 
address of the shareholder and an
y beneficial owner;  Ł the class and number of shares of the Comp
any held of record by the shareholder or beneficially owned as of the date of 
the notice, and a representation that the shareholder will noti
fy the Company in writing within five (5) business days after 
the record date for such meeting of the cl
ass and number of shares of
 the Company held of record or beneficially owned on 
such record date;   Ł any other information relating to such shareholder and beneficial owner, if any, that would be required to be disclosed in a 
prox
y statement or other filin
gs required to be made in connection with solicitations of proxies for the matter proposed; 
 Ł such shareholder™s and any beneficial owne
r™s written consent to the public disclosure of information provided to the 
Company in the notice; 
  Ł a representation that the shareh
older intends to appear at the meeting to bring such nomination or other business before the 
meeting; and   Ł such other information as ma
y reasonabl
y be required b
y the Board of Directors and described in this prox
y statement . 
 a)any agreements, arrangements or understan
dings entered into by the shareholder or
 beneficial owner and their affiliates 
with respect to equity securities of 
the Company, including any put or call ar
rangements, derivative securities, short 
positions, borrowed shares or swap or similar arran
gements, 2017 SHAREHOLDER PROPOSALS 
        If the notice relates to the nomination of di
rectors, it must include for each nominee: 
       If the notice relates to any business other than nomination of directors, it must contain: 
         70  specifying in each case the effect of su
ch agreements, arrangements 
or understandings on any vo
ting or economic rights of 
equity securities of th
e Company, in each case as of the date of the 
notice and in each case describing any changes in 
votin
g or economic ri
ghts which ma
y arise pursuant to the terms of such a
greements, arrangements or understandin
gs;  b)to the extent not covered in clause (a) above, any disclosures that would be required pursuant to Item 5 or Item 6 of 
Schedule 13D (regardless of whether the re
quirement to file a Schedule 13D is app
licable to the shareholder or beneficial 
owner); and 
 c)a representation that the shareholder will
 notify the Company in writing within five (5) business days after the record date 
for such meetin
g of the information set forth in clauses 
(a) and (b) above as of the record date. 
 Ł all information relating to such nominee that is required to be 
disclosed in a proxy statement or other filing required to be 
made in connection with solicitations of proxies for election of
 directors in a contested electio
n pursuant to Section 14 of 
the Exchange Act (including such person™s written consent to
 being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to 
serving as a director if elected); 
 Ł a description of all direct and indirect compensation an
d other material monetary agreements, arrangements and 
understandings during the past three (3) years, and any material relationships, between or among the nominating 
shareholder and beneficial owner, if any,
 and their respective affiliates and associ
ates, or others actin
g with them, and each proposed nominee, and his or he
r respective affiliates and asso
ciates, or others acting with 
them, including all information 
that would be required to be disclosed under Item 404 of Regulation S-K if the nominating shareholder and any beneficial 
owner, or any affiliate or associate or any person acting with th
em, were the ﬁregistrantﬂ for pu
rposes of such rule and the 
nominee were a director or 
executive officer of the re
gistrant; and 
 Ł information necessary to make a determination of the eligibility
 of the nominee to serve as an independent director of the 
Company as defined by Rule 5605(a)(2) of the National Association of Securities Dealers listing standards and to meet the 
requirements of membership for each of 
the Committees of the Comp
any™s Board of Directors (w
hich are contained in the 
charters of the Committees and are accessi
ble on the Company™s website
 at www.53.com) and such
 information that could be material to a reasonable shareholder™s understandin
g of the independence, or lack
 thereof, of the nominee. 
  Ł a description in reasonable detail of the business to be brought before the meeting, the reasons for conducting such 
business at the meetin
g, and an
y material interest of the proposin
g shareholder and an
y beneficial owner in such business; 
 Ł the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and, if the business 
includes a proposal to amend the Company™s Code of Regulati
ons or Articles of Incorporation, the language of the 
proposed amendment); and  Ł a description of all ag
reements, arrangements and under
standings between the proposing 
shareholder, any beneficial 
owner, and any other person or persons (including their names) acting in connection with them in bringing the proposal of 
such business.  OTHER BUSINESS Discretion of Proxies 
 The Board of Directors does not know of any other business to be presented to the Annual Meeting and does not intend to bring 
other matters before the Annual Meeting. However, if any other ma
tters properly come before the Annual Meeting, it is intended 
that 
the persons named in the Pr
oxy will vote thereon according to 
their best judgment and interest of
 the Company. No other shareho
lder has informed the Company of any intention to propose any other matter to be acted upon at the Annual Meeting. Accordingly, the 
persons named in the accompanying 
Proxy are allowed to exercise 
their discretionary authority to
 vote upon any 
such proposal without the matter having been discussed in this proxy statement. 
 Householding 
 Shareholders of record who have the same address and last name
 and have not previously requested electronic delivery of proxy 
materials will receive a single 
envelope containing the notices or the proxy 
statement and proxy card fo
r all shareholders havi
ng that 
address. The notice or proxy card 
for each shareholder will
 include that shareholder™s unique 
control number needed to vote his
 or her 
shares. This procedure reduces ou
r printing costs and postage fees. If, in the future, you do not wish to participate in househ
olding 
and prefer to receive your noti
ce or proxy statement in a separate envelope, pl
ease call us toll-free at 
1-800-821-8780 in the 
U.S., or 
inform us in writing at: Fifth Third Bancorp, c/o D.F. King & Co
., Inc., 48 Wall Street Œ 22 Floor, New York, NY 10005, or by 
email at FITB@dfking.com. We will 
respond promptly to such requests. 
 For those shareholders who have the same address and last na
me and who request to receive 
a printed copy of the proxy 
materials by mail, we will send only one 
copy of such materials to each
 address unless one or more of those shareholders notifi
es us, 
in the same manner described above, that
 they wish to receive a printed copy 
for each shareholder 
at that address. 
 Beneficial shareholders can request information about householding from their banks, brokers or other holders of record. 
 Copies 
 A copy of the Company™s Annual Report 
on Form 10-K for the most recent fiscal 
year, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, not including exhibi
ts, will be mailed without charge to sh
areholders upon written request. Requests 
should be addressed to Investor Relations, 38 Fountain S
quare Plaza, MD 1090QC, Cincinnati, OH 45263 or by emailing 
ir@53.com. You can also view information 
and request documents from the Investor 
Relations page of Fifth Third™s website 
at www.53.com. The Form 
10-K includes certain list
ed exhibits, which will be provided
 upon payment of a 
fee covering the Company™s reasonable expenses. 
 By Order of the Board of Directors 
 Heather Russell Koenig 
 Corporate Secretary 
   71 ndANNEX A 
REGULATIONS FOR CONDUCT AT THE 
APRIL 19, 2016 ANNUAL MEETING 
 OF SHAREHOLDERS OF FIFTH THIRD BANCORP 
 We welcome you to the 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Fifth Third Bancorp. In order to provide a fair and informative 
Meeting, we ask you to honor the following regulations for the Meet
ing. The business of the Meeting will be taken up as set for
th in 
the Agenda attached to these Re
gulations. Annual Meetings are business meetings, 
and they can be effectiv
e only if conducted in
 an orderly, business-like manner. Strict rules of parliamentary pro
cedure will not be followed. The 
Chairman of the Meeting will c
ontrol 
the meeting and make any required procedural rulings. Please fo
llow the instructions of the 
Chairman. Thank you for your 
cooperation. 
 1. ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
. Every shareholder having the right to vote shall 
be entitled to vote in person or by proxy. Each 
shareholder of record shall be 
entitled to one vote for each
 share of common stock registered in
 his or her name on the books o
f the 
Company. All uncontested elections where cumulative voting is not 
in effect shall be determined by a majority voting standard 
whereby a director wi
ll only be elected if he or she receives more votes 
ﬁforﬂ election than votes ﬁag
ainstﬂ election. All othe
r elections shall be determined by a plurality vote. 
 The Company has, however, adopted provisions of its Corporat
e Governance Guidelines stating 
that, as long as cumulative 
voting is not in effect, in an un
contested election of Directors (
i.e., an election where the only nomi
nees are those recommended by 
the Board of Directors), any nomi
nee for Director who receives a gr
eater number of votes ﬁagainstﬂ
 his or her election than vot
es ﬁforﬂ his or her election will promptly tender his or her resign
ation to the Chairman of the Bo
ard following certification of t
he shareholder vote. The Nominating and Corpor
ate Governance Committee will
 promptly consider the tendered resignation and will 
recommend to the Board whether to accept or reject the tendered re
signation no later than 60 da
ys following the date of the 
shareholders™ meeting at 
which the election occurred
. In considering wh
ether to accept or reject the 
tendered resignation, the 
Nominating and Corporate Governan
ce Committee will consid
er factors deemed relevant by the Committee members including, 
without limitation, the Director™s length of service, the Director™s particular qualifications and contributions to Fifth Third
, the reasons underlying the majority against vote (if known) and whet
her these reasons can be cured, 
and compliance with stock excha
nge 
listing standards and the Corporate Governance Guidelines. Th
e Board will act on the Nominating and Corporate Governance 
Committee™s recommendation no later than 90 days following the da
te of the shareholders™ meetin
g at which the election occurred. In considering the Nominating and Co
rporate Governance Committee™s recommendation, th
e Board will consider the factors considered 
by the Committee and such additi
onal information and factors the Board believes to be relevant.  2. VOTING
. Every shareholder having the right to vote shall be entitle
d to vote in person or by proxy at the Meeting. If you 
have already voted by proxy, there is no need to vote by ballot, unless you wish to change your vote
. The polls shall be opened 
immediately after completion of the nominations, and shall remain
 open until closed by the Chairm
an. After the closing of the p
olls, 
no further voting shall be permitted and 
no further proxies, ballots or evidence shall be accepted 
by the Inspectors of Election. Except as otherwise stated in the proxy materials 
for this Meeting or as required by Ohio law, each matter 
brought before this Meeting
 for a 
vote shall require the affirmative vote of a majority of the vo
tes entitled to be cast by the holders of the Company™s common s
tock at this Meeting and entitled to vote on such matter. 
 3. ITEMS OF BUSINESS; SHAREHOLDER PROPOSALS 
Œ THREE MINUTE LIMIT
. The items of business listed on the 
accompanying Agenda are expected to be properly introduced at the Meeting and taken 
up in the order set forth in the Agenda. 
Additional matters may be propos
ed by shareholders of record 
in accordance with the federal secu
rities laws, the Ohio Revised C
ode 
and these Regulations. The Chairman
 will not entertain any proposal
s that are inconsistent with Ohio law or that relate to acti
vities 
that have been delegated to the Company™s Board of Directors by the authority of Ohio law. Shareholder proposals will be entert
ained in the following order: first, any proposals of which th
e Company was informed prior 
to the commencement of this 
   A-1 
Meeting; and then, any other proposals pr
operly made in accordance w
ith these Regulations. Each 
proposing shareholder will be 
allotted three minutes in which to present 
the proposal and any desired remarks in support thereof. Properly introduced motions
 need not be seconded in order to be considered
 by the shareholders at this Meeting. 
 4. QUESTIONS/STATEMENTS BY SHAREHOLDERS 
Œ ONE MINUTE LIMIT
. To make a proposal or to speak at the 
Meeting you must be either a shareholder of record as of February 26, 2016 or a person named in a proxy given by such a 
shareholder. No other persons will be permitte
d to make a proposal or to speak at the Meeting. There will be one period for que
stions 
and statements by shareholders
 as set forth on the Agenda at
tached to these Regulations. 
 In order that we may give as many shareholders as possible th
e opportunity to speak, remarks and questions will be limited to 
one minute per shareholder. You must restrict yourself to one co
mment or question at a time so th
at others may have an opportun
ity 
to be heard. Each shareholder may have only one turn to speak until all shareholders who wish to speak have had the opportunity
 to 
do so- additional turns may be allowed as time permits. 
 If you wish to speak, please raise your hand and wait until
 you are recognized. 
Please do not addre
ss the Meeting until recognized by the Chairman. When 
you are recognized, please stat
e your name, place of residence, and whether you are a Fifth Th
ird shareholder or a holder of a shareholder proxy, and, in the la
tter case, identify the sharehol
der on whose behalf you are speak
ing. All 
questions should be directed to the Chairman, who may call on other persons to respond or further direct questions when appropr
iate. If you have a matter of individual concern which is not an appropriate subject for general discussion, please defer discussion 
until after the Meeting at which time offi
cers of the Company will be available. Th
e Chairman will stop discussions which are 
repetitive, derogatory, over the time limit, irrelevant to the 
business of the Company or the ite
ms on the Agenda for the Meeti
ng, 
related to pending or threatened 
litigation, regulatory pr
oceedings or similar actions or ot
herwise inappropriate. Derogatory r
eferences 
to personalities, comments that are in bad 
taste, the airing of persona
l grievances, the injection of irrelevant controversy, p
ersonal attacks, refusal to follow these Regulations or interference wi
th any speaker will not be permitted and will be a basis for sil
encing or removal from the Meeting. 
 5. MISCELLANEOUS
. No recording devices, photographic equipment or bullhorns will be permitted into the Meeting. No 
written materials may be distributed by any person at or in physical proximity to the Meeting. The Chairman of the Meeting shal
l have the power to silence or have removed any person in order to ensure the orderly conduct of the Meeting. 
 6. ADMINISTRATION AND INTERPRETATION
. The Chairman of the Meeting has so
le authority to preside over the 
Meeting and make any and all determinations
 with respect to the conduct of the Meeting, including, without limitation, the 
administration and interpretation of these 
regulations and procedures. The Chairman al
so has sole authority to create such addi
tional 
regulations and procedures and to waive full 
or partial compliance with an
y regulation or procedure as
 the reasonably determine
s. 
Any action taken by the Chairman at the M
eeting will be final, conclusive and binding on all persons. The Secretary of the Comp
any shall act as secretary of the Meeting. 
 THANK YOU FOR YOUR COOPERAT
ION AND ENJOY 
THE MEETING.    A-2 
  Annual Meeting of Shareholders 
 APRIL 19, 2016 
 AGENDA 
 Call to Order 
 Introductions 
 Approval of 2015 Minutes 
 Nomination and Elect
ion of Directors 
 Ratification of Auditors 
 Approval of executive compensation 
 Determination of frequency of 
votes on executiv
e compensation  Presentation of 2015 Results 
 Question and Answer Session 
 Announcement of Voting Results on all matters presented 
 Adjournment 
     
              38 Fountain Square Plaza 
 Cincinnati, Ohio 45263 
 (800) 972-3030 
