Charting the Course
with Conﬁdence
2010 ANNUAL REPORT
Fifth Third Bancorp is a diversiﬁed ﬁnancial services 
company headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio. The 
Company has $111 billion in assets, operates 
with 1,312 full-service Banking Centers, including 

103 Bank Mart® locations open seven days a week 

inside select grocery stores and 2,445 ATMs in Ohio, 
Kentucky, 
Indiana, Michigan, Illinois, Florida, Tennessee, 
West Virginia, Pennsylvania, Missouri, Georgia and 
North Carolina. Fifth Third operates four 
main businesses: Commercial Banking, Branch Banking, 
Consumer Lending and Investment Advisors. Fifth 

Third also has a 49% interest in Fifth Third Processing 
 Solutions, LLC. Fifth Third is among the largest money 
managers in the Midwest and, as of December 31, 
2010, had $266 billion in assets under care, of which 
it managed $25 billion for individuals, corporations 
and not-for-proﬁt organizations. Investor information 
and press releases can be viewed at www.53.com. 

Fifth Third’s common stock is traded on the NASDAQ® 
 National Global Select Market under the symbol 

“FITB.” Member FDIC.
Corporate 
Proﬁle
2010 ANNUAL REPORT
1Dear Shareholders,
Last year marked an important turning point for 
Fifth Third, as many of the actions we™ve taken over 

the past several years had a direct and positive 

impact on our results. Fifth Third took aggressive 

action early in the credit cycle and I™m pleased with 

the progress we™ve shown through improved credit 

trends, continued strong operating metrics and our 

strong capital position. We returned to pro˚tability 

in early 2010 and have continued to generate 

increasing levels of earnings through the remainder 

of the year Œ over $750 million in net income for the 

full year. Our return on assets was 0.7 percent in 2010 

and 1.2 percent in the most recent quarter, which 

demonstrates our progress to normalized levels.   
In February 2011, we fully repaid the U.S. Department 
of Treasury™s $3.4 billion investment in preferred 

stock under its Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) 

Capital Purchase Program. Since December 2008, 

we™ve paid more than $350 million of dividends to 

the American taxpayers, who will also bene˚t from 

the disposition of the warrants issued in conjunction 

with that investment. We are pleased to close this 

chapter in our history and move forward into a 

period that we believe will be marked by continued 
improvement in results, enhanced shareholder value 
and prudent management of our capital.Getting to where we are today didn™t happen by 

chance. We began taking aggressive actions to 

position the Company for the coming storm back in 

2007, and we have seen and will continue to see the 

bene˚t of those actions. Our story is about more 

than aggressively attacking credit issues - it™s about 

improving the levels of customer satisfaction and 

employee engagement, continuing to invest in our 

already strong earnings capacity and deepening 

customer relationships through new products and 

services. These are part of a strategic plan that, 

along with relentless focus on execution, allows us 

to chart our future course with con˚dence. 
Our strategic agenda as we move forward is 
focused on opportunities in markets where 

we are underpenetrated and on continuous 

improvement of the customer experience, both of 

which aim for deeper customer relationships and 

improved retention. This focus contributes to our 

overall goal of positioning Fifth Third as a unique 

value proposition Œ a bank with the capabilities, 

technology and products of the largest banks in 

the country and with the service and local touch 
A Message to 
Our Shareholders
Kevin T. Kabat
President and
Chief Executiver
FIFTH THIRD BANCORP
2typically associated with a community bank. We™re 
making great progress on this front. In the most 

recent University of Michigan American Customer 

Satisfaction Index (ACSI), Fifth Third™s overall 

score was the highest we have ever received Œ 

signi˚cantly above the average for the industry 

and other large peers. This is a testament to our 

commitment in making customer satisfaction one of 

our top priorities and it emphasizes the importance 

of working with our customers as valued partners 

in their ˚nancial decision making.Our core businesses remain strong and we remain 
focused on providing quality products to our 

customers. We see signi˚cant opportunity in our 

markets today and our sales force continues to win 

new business throughout our footprint. We see that 

in stronger relative loan growth, deposit growth 

and fee growth compared with our competitors. 

Subsequently, our stock continued its recovery and 

signi˚cantly outperformed the industry in 2010, 

with a total shareholder return (stock price plus 

dividends) of 51 percent compared with 20 percent 

for the S&P Banks Index.  
Signiﬁcant events in the 
banking industry
There have been a number of legislative and 
regulatory developments within the banking 

industry during 2010. Many of these are aimed 

at reducing risk in the industry and protecting 

the economy and taxpayers frects of 

˚nancial system dislocations. We wholeheartedly 

support a strong global ˚nancial system and feel 

that many of the changes will ultimately prove to be 

bene˚cial. There will be additional costs associated 

with implementing many new regulations; h
owever, 
we are prepared to address any challenges that 

may lie ahead. We™ve demonstrated success 

thrating environment and 

we expect to generate sustainable growth in the 

new operating environment.
Overdraft regulation, sometimes referred to as 

“Reg E,” went intect in the middle of the year 

and prohibits banks from processing electronic 

withdrawal transactions and charging overdraft 

fees in accs 

the customer has “opted-in” to the program. Many 

of our customers have opted-in, and therefore 
approved such payments, or have otherwise 
arranged for overdraft protection.
In the second half of the year, the Dodd-Frank 
Act Œ with multiple elements aimed at ˚nancial 

reform Œ was signed into law. A signi˚cant focus of 

the ˚nancial reform bill is reducing or eliminating 

activities not related to traditional banking Œ 
activities that are inherently volatile, add complexity, 

and create interconnections across ˚nancial 
companies. Fifth Third™s business model is largely 

driven by traditional banking activities, which are 

generally not the focus of the legislation, and we 

believe we are well-positioned to adapt and even 

bene˚t from changing regulations. An 
additional element of the Dodd-Frank Act, unrelated 
to the 
˚nancial crisis, is commonly referred to as the 

“Durbin Amendment.” This requires the Federal 

Reserve to limit debit interchange rates charged to 

merchants by issuers. Signi˚cant limits have been 

proposed on such interchange rates that unless 

mitigated, would prevent us and other banks from 

fully recapturing the costs of operating our debit 

card businesses. While no one knows what the 

˚nal rules and limits will be, we are con˚dent that 

wetantial portion of the impact 

through mitigation strategies.   
New capital proposals were another focal point of 
˚nancial reform in 2010. Both the Dodd-Frank Act 

and “Basel III” (an international capital standard) 

were introduced to establish future guidelines 

regarding the minimum amounts and types of 

capital we may be required to maintain. While 

we are still awaiting clarity on what the U.S. rules 

will be, we do not expect them to present any 

or Fifth Third. Despite the 

lack of ˚nal rules, the publication of Basel III and 
the stabilization and relative improvement in the 

economy have begun to provide the industry with 

important direction regarding capital requirements 

in the future.
Finally, as previously noted, in February of 2011 
Fifth Third fully repaid the $3.4 billion in preferred 

stock that was issued under the government™s 

Troubled Asset Relief Program. Fifth Third issued 

$1.7 billion of common equity and $1 billion of 

senior debt to facilitate this repayment. Fifth Third™s 

capital levels upon repayment substantially exceed 

all capital standards as they exist today and we 
Total Shareholder Return (12/31/09 - 12/31/10)*
*See Total Return Analysis section in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for Fifth Third Bancorp™s 5-year and 10-year total return 
analysis.
2010 ANNUAL REPORT
3believe 
they will also exceed the fully phased-in 
Basel III proposed capital requirements. Now that 

we have this behind us and based on our strong 

˚nancial results and capital position, we expect 

to have greater ﬂexibility in managing our capital, 

including dividends.Despite the headwinds we have faced, we are 

generating solid levels of earnings and expect 
results to further improve. Change can be 
challenging, but how a company deals with change 

determines its success and ultimately its return to 

shareholders. We are con˚dent that we are up to 

the challenge.
2010 results
For the full year 2010, we reported net income of 

$753 million, an increase from our 2009 results that 

included the bene˚t of a $1.1 billion after-tax gain 

on the sale of a 51 percent interest in Fifth Third 

Processing Solutions.
Core operating results remained strong. We™ve 
maintained consistently strong pre-tax pre-

provision net revenue (revenue minus expenses) Œ 

nearly $2.5 billion in 2010 Œ which is relatively high 

compared with our asset base and has enabled 
us to absorb losses better and generate stronger 
pro˚ts compared with many peer institutions. 
Net interest income and net interest margin 
continued to expand as we lowered our excess 

liquidity and bene˚ted from deposit repricing. We 

have begun to see some stabilization in our loan 

balances and continue to see solid loan production, 

particularly in commercial and industrial (C&I) 

loans. Within C&I, origination volumes have been at 

historically high levels, but paydowns also remain 

high. Within consumer loans, auto loan originations 
have been very strong and our mortgage production 
picked up in the latter half of the year. Overall, we™ve 

been pleased with our lending volumes throughout 

the year and believe that we have some positive 

momentum heading into 2011. We also continued 

to grow high-value transaction deposit accounts in 

2010, with average balances increasing 19 percent, 

or $10.4 billion, over last year.
Our provision expense for loan and lease losses 
declined more than $2 billion from 2009, reﬂecting 

signi˚cantly lower net chareductions 

in problem assets. We ˚nished the year strong 

with fourth quarter net charopping 

below 2 percent of average loans on an annualized 

basis, signi˚cantly better than most large peers. 
FIFTH THIRD BANCORP
4The 
improvement in credit trends resulted in 
reductions of our loan loss reserves by $745 

million during the year; h
owever, 
these reserves 
are still 
among the strongest coverage levels in the 
industry, at 3.88 percent of loans and 179 percent of 

nonperforming loans.
Noninterest income bene˚ted from solid mortgage 

banking revenue of $647 million in 2010, an increase 

of 17 percent over 2009. Our investment advisory 

revenue increased 11 percent over the prior year 

and deposit fees declined only 9 percent despite 

the impact of the overdraft regulation. 
Our capital position remains robust. Our Tier 1 
capital ratio was 13.9 percent at year-end compared 

with 13.3 percent at the end of 2009.  Our tangible 

common equity (TCE) ratio including unrealized 

gains on securities, which increased to 7.3 percent, 

continues to compare favorably with our peers and 

is even more favorable when viewed in light of our 

capital raise at the beginning of 2011.  Given our 

capital position and our strong reserve position, 

Fifth Third has one of the strongest balance sheets 

among commercial banks.  
Strategic initiatives and  
Lines of Business
Fifth Third has a simple overall value proposition 
Œ we have the resources and technology toer 

products competitive with the largest banks in the 

country for traditional banking business, but our 

customer service rivals that of most community 

banks. By focusing on this “sweet spot,” we 

believe we are able to driverentiation to our 

customers and value creation for our shareholders. 

Our strategic plan is designed to further improve 

that position through a variety of initiatives that 

have the ultimate goal of developing deeper 

customer relationships and growing our customer 

base through the strength of the Fifth Third brand. 
Our Commercial Banking line of business is 
focused on maintaining a close relationship with 

our customers, developing new value-added 

products based on customer needs, and continuing 

to enhance sales processes. We strive to develop 

innovative solutions for our customers, such as 

our Remote Currency Manager product, which 

has enhanced our suite of treasury management 

prerings. We™ve also hired exceptional 
talent across our footprint, and we expect this to 
contribute to our revenue growth going forward. 

Recently, we™ve begun to see some positive 

signs within C&I lending, particularly within the manufacturing and health care industries, and 
we have seen signi˚cant growth in core deposits, 

posting a 32 percent increase over last year.
Our Branch Banking line of business has continued 
to post strong results. We have been successful 

in introducing new product bundles in the last 

few years, such as our Secure Checking Package 

that combines identity theft protection with a 

traditional 
checking account. Our Relationship 
Savings product 
has attracted over $9 billion in 
balances since inception and has more than tripled 

in balances this year alone. We were one of the ˚rst 

of our peers to eliminate free checking products, 

and we continue to focus on providing value-added 

products to our customers. Customer service 
remains a top priority and during 2010 we expanded 
our traditional branch hours on weeknights and 

weekends at many locations in order to be even 

more accessible to our customers. Additionally, we 

have hired over 100 small businesers 

focused on customers in the $1 million to $3 million 

revenue range, as we see additional opportunities 

in this underpenetrated market space and are 

committed to fostering economic growth through 

investing in this area.  
Our Consumer Lending line of business had another 
outstanding year. Our mortgage originations 

exceeded $18 billion and we generated over $600 

million of mortgage banking revenue. Our recent J.D. 

Power Mortgage Origination Customer Satisfaction 

scores improved signi˚cantly compared with 

2009 results. Our J.D. Power Mortgage Servicer 

Satisfaction score increased Œ ranking Fifth Third in 

the top ˚ve - while the industry average declined 

compared with 2009. Our auto lending operations 

continued to perform well as we maintained 

strong credit quality and pricing discipline, while 

generating more than $5 billion in originations. 

We remain committed toering responsible 

credit solutions to our customers and helping them 

through our mortgage modi˚cation programs, 

while also keeping long-term value creation for 

shareholders a priority.
Our Investment Advisors business bene˚ted 
from the overall lift in the equity and bond 
2010 ANNUAL REPORT
5markets throughout 2010. As a result of market 
performance and continued investment in our 

sales force, investment advisory revenue increased 

more than $30 million compared with 2009. 

Additionally, assets under care were up 46 percent 

on a year-over-year basis, reﬂecting inﬂows from 

new business won in 2010. In terms of year-over-

year revenue growth, Fifth Third™s retail brokerage 

segment outperformed its peers throughout 2010 

as it has shifted its focus from a single product 

approach to a full-service advisory model.  We 

believe this business is well-positioned for future 

market growth.  
Looking to 2011 and beyond, we expect to continue 
our organic growth strategy, with the ultimate goal 

of developing or maintaining a market leading 

position in a majority of our markets. We have 

found that in markets where we have a top three 

market share we consistently have higher deposits 

per branch, as well as more products per customer. 

Fifth Third is currently in the top three in just under 

half of our markets and we are targeting being in 

the top three in about two-thirds of our markets 

over the next several years. This strategy, coupled 

with our customer experience initiatives, should 

strengthen our position in the future.
Economic overview and outlook
As we entered 2010 we started to see some 

improvement in economic trends and signs 
pointing to an economic recovery - although 
we expect it will take some time before we see 

meaningful, sustained economic growth.  The U.S. 

Gross Domestic Product (GDP) has seen positive 

growth throughout the year. There has been 

some stabilization in home prices although values 

continue to decline in some markets and there has 

not been any substantial growth in most others. The 

unemployment rate also appears to have stabilized 

although it remains at elevated levels. All of this 

has contributed to uncertainty in the markets, 

yet despite this uncertainty we™ve demonstrated 

continued improvement through our pro˚tability. 
Despite the challenging operating environment, we 
have continued to lend and have extended more 

than $86 billion of credit in 2010, an increase of 

15 percent from the previous year. Our mortgage 

originations have outperformed the Mortgage 

Bankers Association (MBA) forecast each quarter 

in 2010.
Commercial loan demand has started to pick up 
and credit line utilization appears to have stabilized. 

Customers remain cautious, although we continue 

to have optimistic conversations with our customers 

about business expansion and investment. We 

remain focused on developing and maintaining 

relationships with our customers so that as they are 

ready to invest in business expansion we are there 

to assist them with their plans. 
ﬁChange can be challenging, 
but how a company deals 
with change determines its 
success and
 ultimately its 
return to shareholders.ﬂ
FIFTH THIRD BANCORP
6Fifth Third is also committed to helping our 
customers stay in their homes, and we continue 

toer many options to help achieve this. We 

recognize that ˚nding mutually bene˚cial solutions 

is the best way to operate. We continue to outpace 

the industry in permanent modi˚cation conversions 

in the government™s Home Aordable Modi˚cation 

Program (HAMP).  Of Fifth Third™s portfolio eligible 

for HAMP consideration, more than 78 percent 

of those trial plans have been converted to 

permanent modi˚cations, which is nearly double 
the national average. Additionally, Fifth Third has 

been providing its “You Have Options” program for 

bank-owned morters various loan 

modi˚cations based on each customer™s speci˚c 

˚nancial situation. We started this program in early 

2007, well ahead of the government™s mortgage 

modi˚cation program, and have seen great success. 

We have modi˚ed $2.3 billion of these loans since 

the inception of the program. 
We anticipate steady, modest growth in 2011. 

We™re not expecting a double dip recession but 

economic activity is not at full capacity. We will 

continue to execute on our core growth strategies 

that we expect to build value for our shareholders, 

particularly as the economy improves.
Looking forward
We have made a number of positive strides over the 

course of the year Œ a return to pro˚tability, proactive 

management of our credit portfolio, signi˚cant 

improvement in our risk management capabilities, 

and improved customer satisfaction scores. Many 

of these positive outcomes are attributable to 

the hard work and dedication of our employees 

in a challenging operating environment. We have 

maintained the advantages of our strong sales 

culture while signi˚cantly increasing our focus on 

customer satisfaction and employee engagement.
There will likely still be headwinds in 2011, in part 

due to the regulatory changes that will continue to 

evolve. However, 
our traditional banking model is 
consistent with the objectives of ˚nancial reform, 

and it is this traditional banking focus that we 

expect will position us well for the future. We™ve 

endured one of the most trying economic and 

banking periods in history and we have made many 

e believe were in the best 

long-term interests of our shareholders. We have 

made the appropriate investments over time, 

without indiscriminate expense cuts, in order to 

preserve and increase future revenue opportunities. 

Our actions and investments have positioned us 

well, and we will continue to focus on enhancing 

our performance in the future to enable us to 

deliver results and returns that create value to you 

as shareholders.
Thank you for your continued support of Fifth Third. 
I appreciate your loyalty, especially throughout 

orward to taking 

advantage of the positive momentum we have 

going into 2011.
Sincerely,
 Kevin T. Kabat 
President and Chief Executiver 
February 2011
2010 ANNUAL REPORT
7Fifth Third Bancorp is committed to maintaining 
strong corporate governance practices. As 
measured by RiskMetrics Group, Fifth Third™s 
Governance Risk Indicators (GRId) classify Audit, 

Board Structure, Compensation and Shareholder 

Rights as Low Concern, the best possible rating.
Fifth Third™s board is controlled by a majority of 
independent outsiders. In May of 2010, Fifth Third 

appointed William Isaac to the role of chairman of 
the board.  Mr. Isaac brings a wealth of experience 
to the board, having spent his career in the banking 

industry and serving as Chairman of the FDIC 

from 1981 to 1985. The addition of a non-executive 
chairman to the board of directors improves our 
already strong corporate governance practices and 

provides support to the executive leadership team. 
For more on Fifth Third™s corporate governance, 
visit www.53.com.
 Corporate 
Governance
Front row:
 Dudley S. Taft, Jewell D. Hoover, John J.., Kevin T. Kabat, William M. Isaac
Second row:
 Dr. Mitchel D. Livingston, James P. Hackett, Darryl F. Allen, Marsha C. Williams
Third row:
 Emerson L. Brumback, Hendrik G. Meijer, Gary R. Heminger, Ulysses L. Bridgeman Jr. 
FIFTH THIRD BANCORP
8Business Description
Branch Banking provides a full range of deposit 
and lending products to individuals and small 

businesses in 12 states in the Midwestern and 

Southeastern regions of the United States. Branch 

ers depository and loan products, such 

as checking and savings accounts, home equity 

loans and lines of credit, credit cards and direct 

loans for automobiles and other personal ˚nancing 

needs, as well as products designed to meet the 

speci˚c needs of small businesses, including cash 

management services.
Customer Focus
As the needs of our customers change, Fifth Third is 

looking toward the futurerings 

to reﬂect how people want to bank today. To add 

convenience to the branch banking experience, 

we extended operating hours at a majority of our 

banking centers across our footprint. In addition 

to the branch network, which includes BankMart® 
locations inside select grocery stores, Fifth Third 
ers online, ATM, telephone and mobile banking 

services that are available 24 hours a day, seven 

days a week.
Whether saving for a home or a child™s education, 
planning for retirement, or building a business, 

customers can depend on our knowledgeable and 

reliable employees to provide banking products 

that meet their needs and help reach their goals. 

Likewise, our business bankers provide full solutions 

including loans, treasury management products, 

employee savings plans and employee banking 

programs to small business customers.
Strategy
Fifth Third continues to enhance its branded sales 

and service process, which drove a 13 percent 

improvement in our 90-day new customer cross-

sell ratio during 2010 and contributed to account 

growth of 8 percent compared with the prior year.
During 2010, Fifth Third continued toer several 
packaged checking products designed to provide 

signi˚cant customer bene˚ts for a standard 

monthly fee. These products, which include Gold, 

Rewards and Secure checking, drove growth in fee 

income from value-added services that are bundled 

with deposit accounts. Balances of the Relationship 

Savings product, which doubles a customer™s 

interest rate when accompanied by an active 

checking account, more than tripled over the year.
2010 Highlights










Branch 
Banking2010 ANNUAL REPORT
9Business Description
Consumer Lending provides loan solutions 
to customers across and beyond Fifth Third™s 

footprint. Our loan products include mortgages 

and home equity loans and lines. Consumer 

Lending also partners with a network of auto 

dealers that originate loans on the Bank™s behalf. 

Whether in need of a mortgage or a new car, our 

customers know weer a solution to help them 

achieve their goals.
Customer Focus
We recognize that personal loans are often a vital 

element for the prosperity of our customers. We 

deliver a full spectrum of competitive lending 

solutions that correspond to their ˚nancial situations. 

Throughout the entire customer experience, we 

strive to provide expert advice and outstanding 

service. To help prepare for major life moments like 

buying a car or for purchasing every day necessities, 

Fifth Third provides lending solutions that ˚t our 
customers™ needs today and tomorrow.
We also support homeownership byering a 
variety of re˚nancing and workout arrangements 

to give our customers options. While each situation 

erent, we intend to work toward mutually 

bene˚cial outcomes with our borrowers. Some 

alternative modi˚cation options may include 

changing the terms of the original loan to make the 

payments morordable, primarily by lowering 

interest rates and extending the terms.
Strategy
Fifth Third understands that each customer 

has unique needs. To evolve with the dynamic 

marketplace and meet the changing needs of 
customers as they progress through life, we continue 
to adjust our lending solutions. Our strategic focus is 

to surround each new and existing customer with a 

team of professional bankers committed to providing 

complete banking solutions in order to pro˚tably 

grow market share.
Our sales and service associates strive to achieve 

the highest ratings for customer experience while 

delivering operational excellence. In 2010, we 

advanced our mortgage origination market share 

within the top 20, and remain a top ˚ve market 

share leader within the non-captive prime auto 

lending space.
2010 Highlights






Consumer 
Lending
FIFTH THIRD BANCORP
10Business Description
Fifth Third™s Commercial line of businesers 
banking, cash management and ˚nancial services 

to large and middle market businesses, government 

and professional customers. In addition to the 

traditional lending and depositerings, 

commercial products and services include global cash 

management, foreign exchange and international 

trade ˚nance, derivatives and capital markets 

services, asset-based lending, real estate ˚nance, 

public ˚nance, commercial leasing and syndicated 

˚nance. Our Commercial line of business serves 

clients ranging from middle market companies with 

$20 million in annual revenue to some of the largest 

companies in the world.
Customer Focus
Fifth Third has a long tradition of commercial 

banking experience. In addition toering complete 

˚nancial solutions to our clients, we believe the 

focus should be on our total relationship with them. 

In 2010, to support the focus on developing those 

trusted advisor relationships, we implemented a 
customer experience initiative to provide quick and 
consistent feedback from our clients to the sales 

teams. Keeping in close contact with customers and 

ering speci˚c solutions is more important than 

ever in today™s demanding operating environment. 
Strategy
Our Commercial line of business delivers innovative 
and client-speci˚c solutions that leverage Fifth 

Third™s expertise in treasury management, capital 

markets and international products and services. 

Our sales process drives the delivery of ˚nancial 

solutions through a relationship team consisting of 

subject matter experts to ensure that all aspects of 

client needs are assessed and met. 
During 2010, Fifth Third continued to invest in 

treasury management solutions with the rollout of a 

Working Capital Management tool, implementation of 

the Sales Resource Center, and enhancements to the 

Remote Currency Manager and RevLink products. Our 

Remote Currency Manager product, which automates 

cash handling in the marketplace, processed $4.7 

billion in transactions through 4,300 locations in 2010. 

The RevLink product, which accelerates the posting 

of paper-based claim payments for healthcare 

providers, processed 7.2 million payment transactions, 

accounting for $5 billion in claim payments, a 400 

percent increase from the prior year.
Fifth Third also invested in improved capital markets 
solutions for our clients, assembling a team of 

strategists who consult with middle market clients 

in areas such as capital structure, currency risk and 

privaterings. In 2010, this team helped 

drive an increase in capital markets revenue of 9 

percent.
2010 Highlights










Commercial 
Banking2010 ANNUAL REPORT
11Business Description
Investment Advisors is comprised of ˚ve distinct 
businesses: Fifth Third Private Bank, Fifth Third 

Securities, Fifth Third Asset Management, Fifth Third 

Institutional Services and Fifth Third Insurance. We 

have more than 100 years of experience helping our 

individual, business and institutional clients build 

and manage their wealth.
Client Focus
Clients receive specialized advice from each of our 

business lines. Fifth Third Private Bank simpli˚es 

˚nancial complexity for the Bank™s mos

clients by collaborating with them to articulate and 

achieve their goals. Fifth Third Securities serves 

individuals and families byering retirement, 

investment and education planning, managed 

money, annuities, and transactional brokerage 

services.  Fifth Third Insurancers a number 

of insurance products and services such as life 

insurance, long-term care insurance, disability 

income protection, and annuities to help clients 

minimize risk and protect their wealth.  Fifth Third 
Asset Management provides asset management 
services to institutional clients and also advises 

the Company™s proprietary family of mutual 

funds, Fifth Third Funds. Fifth Third Institutional 

Services provides consulting, investment and 

record-keeping services for corporations, ˚nancial 

institutions, foundations, endowments and not-for-

pro˚t organizations. Products include retirement 

plans, endowment management, planned giving 

and global and domestic custody services.  
Strategy
Investment Advisors serves to deepen and enhance 

the Bank™s most important client relationships 

by collaborating with our Retail, Commercial and 

Business Banking partners. We begin by completely 

understanding each client™s unique needs, goals and 

circumstances. For our mos

and families, we have teams of professionals to 

design unbiased solutions that meet all of their 
wealth management needs in one place. For our 

Retail clients, weer a comprehensive suite of 

investment and insurance solutions to complement 

their existing banking products and services. For 

institutions and corporations, our retirement, asset 

management and custody capabilities mean they 

can turn to Fifth Third for more than just their 

capital needs. By leveraging our internal company 

partnerships, Investment Advisors provides the Bank 

with ongoing fee revenue at low incremental capital, 

and provides our clients with complete, powerful 

˚nancial solutions from one trusted advisor.
Investment 
Advisors
2010 Highlights  







Community 
GivingStudents from Schroder High School in Cincinnati, Ohio, will be taught Dave Ramsey™s ﬁnancial literacy high school curriculum t
hanks to a new partnership 
between Fifth Third Bank and The Lampo Group.  At the press conference announcement, the students were joined by Mary Ronan, su
perintendent of 
Cincinnati Public Schools; Gail Williams, community relations manager for Fifth Third Bank; Bob Sullivan, former president and 
CEO of Fifth Third Bank 
(Greater Cincinnati); Jim King, vice president of high school curriculums, The Lampo Group; and Kevin Boyce, former Ohio State 
Treasurer. 
FIFTH THIRD BANCORP
12Integral to our continued success is the health and 
vitality of the communities we serve. Our community 

giving is centered on empowering people — the 

individuals who are the backbone of families, non-

pro˚t and faith-based organizations, businesses and 

government that make a community strong. 
The Bank™s priority is to give people access to the 
tools and knowledge they need to be successful. 

Since ful˚llment of nearly any goal begins with 

understanding money, knowing how to use it wisely 

and having the means to invest for the future, Fifth 

Third Bank™s mission is ˚nancial empowerment.   
We have developed several signature programs and 
partnerships that help people become ˚nancially 

sound.  The Fifth Third Bank Young Bankers Club is 

designed for ˚fth-grade students and teaches the 

basics of money using a curriculum that meets state 

and local educational standards in mathematics and 

social studies. Nearly 6,000 students have graduated 

from Young Bankers Club since 2004. 
Our ˚nancial empowerment programs grow with the 

children and, when they reach the ninth grade, they 

can take the Bank™s six-week ˚nancial literacy course, 

Smart Bankers Club. Smart Bankers Club teaches 

teenagers about money management, including 

budgeting, understanding credit and maintaining 

bank accounts. 
In 2010, Fifth Third Bank announced an innovative 

partnership with The Lampo Group, the company of 

nationally-syndicated radio talk show host and money 

management expert Dave Ramsey, to expand our suite 

of ˚nancial programs further into high school. Fifth 

Third Bank is sponsoring Ramsey™s “Foundations in 

Personal Finance” curriculum for 11th- and 12th-grade 

students in select high schools throughout our 12-state 

footprint. Our sponsorship enables students to take 

the course at no cost to the school or to themselves, 
just as many states are adopting legislation that 
mandates ˚nancial literacy education in schools. The 

pilot program includes 11,000 students throughout 

2010 and 2011. Ters additional ˚nancial empowerment 
programs for adults. The eBus, a 40-foot retro˚tted 

bus, travels to traditionally underserved communities 

to take ˚nancial education and services directly 

to people in those neighborhoods. On the bus, 

individuals can get their credit score, learn how to 

obtain a mortgage or avoid foreclosure and receive 

individualized ˚nancial counseling. The Bank™s Dream 

Guard initiative also helps empower individuals by 

providing tips and advice on topics ranging from 
ways 
to reduce everyday expenses, to extend the life of what 

you own and many other topics related to budgeting, 

planning and using money wisely in challenging times. 

Dream Guard tip sheets are available for free on the 

Bank™s website, www.53.com. 
In addition to its emphasis on ˚nancial empowerment, 
Fifth Third Bank is an active supporter of many 

charitable organizations, community development 

projects and neighborhood activities that make a 
positive impact in people™s lives. In 2010, the Bank 

made $2.5 million in grants through its corporate 
foundation, the Fifth Third Foundation and It invested 

$254 million in revitalization projects through the Fifth 

Third Community Development Corporation (CDC). 

Through our many Bank departments, including 

those focused on meeting Community Reinvestment 

Act (CRA) requirements, we supported thousands 

of local events and initiatives, and our employees 

volunteered both their time and money to causes 

they believe in, from raising $7 million for the United 

Way to environmental causes, fundraising walks and 

more. More information can be found in the Fifth Third 

Bancorp Corporate Social Responsibility Report, which 

will be available in May 2011 at www.53.com/csrreport.
 GlMSeOvNCrRiSt
BuFoBaRiOCoMReFiCoCoCoCo NSuSuBuReSeLoCrLoBaGInVaSaDOShAnCoDCo FOTh19riskbuexpﬁrecauecocomoth(6)gro(10be ThtheThshaThinfgenlossary of Term
sManagement™s D
ielected Financial Dverview on-GAAP Finan
critical Accountin
gisk Factors 
atements of Inco
musiness Segment 
Rourth Quarter Re
valance Sheet Anal
yisk Management 
 ff-Balance Sheet 
Aontractual Obliga
tManagement™s A
seports of Indep
einancial Statemeonsolidated Balan
onsolidated State
monsolidated State
monsolidated State
mNotes to Consoli
dummary of Signifi
cupplemental Cash 
usiness Combinat
iestrictions on Cas
ecurities 
oans and Leases  
redit Quality and 
toans with Deterio
ank Premises and 
oodwill 
ntangible Assets 
ariable Interest E
nales of Receivable
serivatives ther Assets hort-Term Borro
wnnual Report on 
onsolidated Te
nirectors and Off
iorporate Inform
aORWARD-LO
Ohis report may contai
n33, as amended, and 
ks and uncertainties. 
usiness of Fifth Thir
dpected to,ﬂ ﬁis antici
pemain,ﬂ or similar ex
puse future results to 
donomic conditions a
nmpany do business, 
aher economic conditi
) Fifth Third™s ability 
owth; (8) changes a
n0) competitive pressu
rrequired by the Fin
ahird, one or more ac
qe recently enacted D
ohird™s stock price; (1
6areholders™ ownershi
phird; (21) loss of inc
oformation through t
hneration and retentio
ns iscussion and A
nData 
cial Measures 
g Policies
 me Analysis Review  view ysis
 Arrangements 
tions and Other 
Cssessment as to 
tendent Register
eents ce Sheets ments of Income 
ments of Changes 
ments of Cash Fl
odated Financial 
Scant Accounting 
aFlow Informatio
nions and Asset A
ch and Dividends 
the Allowance forrated Credit Qua
lEquipment 
ntities 
s and Servicing R
iwings 
 Form 10-K 
n Year Comparis
oicers 
ation  OKING STAT
En forward-looking st
aRule 175 promulgat
eThis report may co
nd Bancorp and/or th
epated,ﬂ ﬁestimate,ﬂ 
ﬁpressions, or future o
rdiffer materially fro
mnd weakening in the e
are less favorable tha
nons; (4) changes in t
hto maintain require
dnd trends in capital 
res among depositor
yancial Accounting St
aquired entities and/or 
odd-Frank Wall Stre
e6) ability to attract 
ap of Fifth Third; (19) 
ome from any sale 
ohe use of computer 
sn, funding and liquidi
nalysis of Finan
cCommitments 
the Effectivenes
sed Public Accou
nin Equit
y ows 
Statements 
and Reporting Po
ln cquisitions 
r Loan and Lease 
Llity Acquired in a 
Tights 
on EMENTS 
atements about Fifth 
ed thereunder, and S
entain certain forwar
de combined compan
yﬁforecast,ﬂ ﬁprojecte
dr conditional verbs s
u historical performa
nconomy, specifically 
tn expected; (2) deteri
ohe interest rate envir
od capital levels and a
dmarkets; (9) proble
my institutions increase 
andards Board (FAS
Bthe combined comp
aet Reform and Cons
uand retain key perso
neffects of accountin
gor potential sale of 
bsystems and telecom
mty. 2010 ANFINA
Ncial Condition a
ns of Internal Co
nnting Firm
 licies 
777778Losses 8Transfer 888889999Third Bancorp and/
oection 21E of the Se
cd-looking statements 
y including statemen
td,ﬂ ﬁintends to,ﬂ or 
much as ﬁwill,ﬂ ﬁwould
,nce and these forwar
dthe real estate marke
torating credit quality; 
(onment reduce intere
sdequate sources of f
ums encountered by 
lsignificantly; (11) eff
eB) or other regulator
yany or the businesses 
umer Protection Act 
(nnel; (17) ability to 
rg or financial results 
obusinesses that could 
munications networ
kANNUAL RE
PNCIAL CON
Tnd Results of O
pntrol over Finan
c72 Long-
T78 Commi78 Legal a
n79 Relate
d79 Income81 Retire
m82 Accumu85 Commo86 Stock-
B86 Other N87 Earnin
g88 Fair V
a90 Certain93 Parent 
97 Busine
s98 Subseq
u      
  or the company as c
ocurities Exchange Ac
twith respect to the 
ts preceded by, follo
wmay include other si
m,ﬂ ﬁshould,ﬂ ﬁcould,ﬂ 
d-looking statements. 
t, either nationally or 
i(3) political develop
mst margins; (5) prepa
yunding and liquidity; 
(larger or similar fin
aects of critical accou
ny agencies; (13) legisl
in which Fifth Third
(Dodd-Frank Act); (
1receive dividends fr
oof one or more acqui
rhave an adverse ef
fks; and (23) the imp
aPORT TENTS 
perations
 cial Reportin
g Term Debt 
itments, Conting
end Regulatory Pr
od Party Transactione Taxes ment and Benefit 
Pulated Other Co
mon, Preferred and 
Based Compensat
iNoninterest Inco
mgs Per Share 
alue Measurement
n Regulatory Requ
iCompany Financiss Segments 
uent Events 
ombined acquired en
tt of 1934, as amend
efinancial condition, 
rwed by or that inclu
dmilar words or phras
eﬁmight,ﬂ ﬁcan,ﬂ or s
iFactors that might c
ain the states in 
which 
ments, wars or other h
oyment speeds, loan or
i(7) maintaining capit
aancial institutions m
anting policies and jud
gative or regulatory c
h, one or more acquir
e14) ability to maintai
nom its subsidiaries; (
1red ent
ities; (20) diffi
fect on Fifth Third™s 
act of reputational ri
s ent Liabilities and 
oceedings ns Plans 
mprehensive IncomTreasury Stock 
ion me and Other No
s irements and Ca
pial Statements 
tities within the mea
ned, and Rule 3b-6 pr
oresults of operations,
de the 
words or phra
ses such as ﬁbelieves,
ﬂimilar verbs. There a
rause such a differenc
eFifth Third, one or 
mostilities may disrupt 
igination and sale vo
lal requirements may 
lay adversely affect 
tgments; (12) changes 
ihanges or actions, or 
ed entities and/or th
en favorable ratings fr
o18) potentially diluti
vculties in separating 
Fearnings and future
sk created by these 
dGuarantees 
me ninterest Expens
epital Ratios 
ning of Section 27A 
oomulgated thereunde
r plans, objectives, f
uses such as ﬁwill like
lﬂ ﬁplans,ﬂ ﬁtrend,ﬂ ﬁ
ore a number of impo
re include, but are no
tmore acquired entitie
sor increase volatility 
ilumes, charge-offs a
nlimit Fifth Third™s o
pthe banking industr
yin accounting policie
s significant litigation
,e combined company 
om rating agencies; (
1ve effect of future a
cFifth Third Processin
 growth; (22) ability 
developments on su
c1415161920232935
414348
636566676869
707199101
104
104
105
108
110
111
112
e 115
116
117
124

125
126
128
129
145
146
of the Securities Act 
or, that involve inhere
nuture performance a
nly result,ﬂ ﬁmay,ﬂ ﬁa
robjective,ﬂ ﬁcontinue
,rtant factors that cou
lt limited to: (1) gener
s and/or the combin
ein securities markets 
ond loan loss provisio
nperations and potenti
ay and/or Fifth Thir
ds or procedures as m
a, adversely affect Fif
tare engaged, includi
n15) fluctuation of Fif
tcquisitions on curre
ng Solutions from Fif
tto secure confidenti
ach matters as busine
sof nt nd re ,ﬂ ld al ed or ns; 
al 
d; ay th ng th nt th al 
ss GLOSSARY OF TERMS
 14    Fifth Third Bancorp 
  Fifth Third Bancorp provides the following list of acronyms as a 
tool for the reader. The acronyms identified below are used in
 Management™s 
Discussion & Analysis of Financial Condition & Results of Operati
ons, the Consolidated Financial Statements and in the Notes to
 Consolidated Financial Statements.
  ALCO: Asset Liability Management Committee 
ALLL: 
Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses 
ARM: Adjustable Rate Mortgage  
ASC: Accounting Standards Codification 
BOLI:
 Bank Owned Life Insurance 
bp: Basis Point(s) 
C&I: Commercial and Industrial 
CARD: Card Accountability, Responsibility and Disclosure  
CDC: Fifth Third Community Development Corporation 
CPP: Capital Purchase Program 
DCF: Discounted Cash Flow 
DIF: Deposit Insurance Fund 
EESA:
 Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 
ERISA:
 Employee Retirement Income Security Act 
ERM: Enterprise Risk Management 
ERMC: 
Enterprise Risk Management Committee 
EVE: 
Economic Value of Equity 
FASB: 
Financial Accounting Standards Board 
FDIC: 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
FHLB: 
Federal Home Loan Bank 
FHLMC: 
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 
FICO:
 Fair Isaac Corporation (credit rating) 
FNMA: Federal National Mortgage Association 
FRB: 
Federal Reserve Bank 
FTAM: 
Fifth Third Asset Management, Inc.
 FTE: 
Fully Taxable Equivalent
 FTP: 
Funds Transfer Pricing 
FTPS: 
Fifth Third Processing Solutions 
FTS: 
Fifth Third Securities  GNMA: Government National Mortgage Association 
IPO: 
Initial Public Offering IRS: Internal Revenue Service LAPA: 
Liquid Asset Purchase Agreement 
LIBOR: 
London InterBank Offered Rate 
LTV: 
Loan-to-Value MD&A: Management™s Discussion & Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations 
MSR: Mortgage Servicing Right 
NII: Net Interest Income 
OCI: Other Comprehensive Income 
OREO: Other Real Estate Owned 
OTTI: Other-Than-Temporary Impairment 
PMI: 
Private Mortgage Insurance 
QSPE: Qualifying Special-Purpose Entity 
RSA: Restricted Stock Award 
SAR: Stock Appreciation Right 
SEC: United States Securities and Exchange Commission 
SCAP: Supervisory Capital Assessment Program 
TAG: Transaction Account Guarantee  
TARP: Troubled Asset Relief Program 
TLGP: 
Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program 
TDR: Troubled Debt Restructuring 
TSA: Transition Service Agreement 
U.S.: United States of America 
U.S. GAAP: Accounting principles generally accepted in the 
United States of America 

VIE: Variable Interest Entity 
VRDN: Variable Rate Demand Note 
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 Fifth Third Bancorp    15
 The following is MD&A of certain significant factors that have 
affected Fifth Third Bancorp™s (th
e ﬁBancorpﬂ or ﬁFifth Thirdﬂ) 
financial condition and results of operations during 
the periods included in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements, which are a part of t
his filing. 
Reference to the Bancorp incorporates the parent holding company 
and all consolidated subsidiaries. 
 TABLE 1: SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA      
For the years ended December 31 ($ in
 millions, except per share data) 
2010
2009 2008 2007 2006 
Income Statement Data 
     
Net interest income 
(a)
 $3,622
3,373 3,536 3,033 2,899 
Noninterest income 
2,729
4,782 2,946 2,467 2,012 
Total revenue 
(a)
 6,351
8,155 6,482 5,500 4,911 
Provision for loan and lease losses 
1,5383,543 4,560 628 343 
Noninterest expense 
3,855
3,826 4,564 3,311 2,915 
Net income (loss) attributable to Bancorp 
753
737 (2,113) 1,076 1,188 
Net income (loss) available to common shareholders 
503
511 (2,180) 1,075 1,188 
Common Share Data 
    
Earnings per share, basic 
$.63
.73 (3.91) 1.99 2.13 
Earnings per share, diluted 
.63.67 (3.91) 1.98 2.12 
Cash dividends per common share 
.04.04 .75 1.70 1.58 
Market value per share 
14.689.75 8.26 25.13 40.93 
Book value per share 
13.0612.44 13.57 17.18 18.00 
Financial Ratios 
     
Return on assets 
             .67 % 
      .64 (1.85) 1.05 1.13 
Return on averag
e common equity   5.0
  5.6   (23.0) 11.2 12.1 
Average equity as a per
cent of average assets 
12.2211.36 8.78 9.35 9.32 
Tangible equity 
(b) 
10.429.71 7.86 6.05 7.79 
Tangible common equity 
(b) 
7.04
6.45 4.23 6.14 7.95 
Net interest margin 
(a)
 3.66
3.32 3.54 3.36 3.06 
Efficiency 
(a)
 60.7
46.9 70.4 60.2 59.4 
Credit Quality  
    
Net losses charged off 
$2,328
2,581 2,710 462 316 
Net losses charged off as a percen
t of average loans and leases 
3.02 %
3.20 3.23 .61 .44 
ALLL as a percent of loans and leases
 3.88
4.88 3.31 1.17 1.04 
Allowance for credit losses as 
a percent of loans and leases 
(c) 4.175.27 3.54 1.29 1.14 
Nonperforming assets as a percent of
 loans, leases and other assets, 
including other real estate owned 
(d)(e)
 2.79
4.22 2.38 1.25 .61 
Average Balances  
    
Loans and leases, including held for sale 
$79,232
83,391 85,835 78,348 73,493 
Total securities and other short-term investments 
19,69918,135 14,045 12,034 21,288 
Total assets 
112,434114,856 114,296 102,477 105,238 
Transaction deposits 
(f) 65,662
55,235 52,680 50,987 49,678 
Core deposits 
(g) 76,188
69,338 63,815 61,765 60,178 
Wholesale funding 
(h) 18,917
28,539 36,261 27,254 31,691 
Bancorp shareholders™ equity 
13,73713,053 10,038 9,583 9,811 
Regulatory Capital Ratios 
     
Tier I capital 
13.94 %13.30 10.59  7.72 8.39 
Total risk-based capital 
18.1417.48 14.78 10.16 11.07 
Tier I leverage 
12.7912.34 10.27 8.50 8.44 
Tier I common equity 
(b) 
7.50
6.99 4.37 5.72 8.22 
(a) Amounts presented on an FTE basis. The FTE adjustments for years ended 
December 31, 2010
, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were 
$18
, $19, $22, $24 and $26, respectively. 
(b) The tangible equity, tangible common equity and Tier I common e
quity ratios are non-GAAP measur
es. For further information, see
 the Non-GAAP Financial Measures section of MD&A. 
(c) The allowance for credit losses is the sum of the 
ALLL and the reserve for unfunded commitments. 
(d) Excludes nonaccrual loans held for sale. 
(e) The Bancorp modified its nonaccrual policy in 2009 to exclude co
nsumer TDR loans less than 90 day
s past due as they were perfor
ming in accordance with restructuring terms. For comparability 
purposes, prior periods were adjusted 
to reflect this reclassification. 
(f) Includes demand, interest checking, savings, money market and foreign office deposits. 
(g) Includes transaction deposits plus other time deposits. 
(h) Includes certificates $100,000 and 
over, other foreign office deposits, federal f
unds purchased, short-term borrowings and long
-term debt.  TABLE 2: QUARTERLY INFORMATION (unaudited)  
      2010 
         2009 
For the three months ended ($ in
 millions, except per share data) 
12/319/306/303/31 
12/31 9/306/303/31
Net interest income (FTE) 
$919916887901 
$882 874836781
Provision for loan and lease losses 
166457325590 
776 9521,041773
Noninterest income 
656827620627 
651 8512,583697
Noninterest expense 
987979935956 
967 8761,021962
Net income (loss) attributable to Bancorp 
333238192(10) 
(98) (97)88250
Net income (loss) available to common shareholders 
270175130(72) 
(160) (159)856(26)
Earnings per share, basic  
.34       .22.16(.09) 
(.20)     (.20) 1.35(.04)
Earnings per share, diluted  
.33.22.16(.09) 
(.20) (.20)1.15(.04)
   
 
     MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  16    Fifth Third Bancorp 
OVERVIEWFifth Third Bancorp is a diversified financial services company 
headquartered in Cincinnati, Ohio. At December 31, 2010, the 
Bancorp had $111 billion in assets and operated 15 affiliates with 

1,312 full-service Banking Centers including 103 Bank Mart® 

locations open seven days a week inside select grocery stores and 

2,445 Jeanie® ATMs in 12 states 
throughout the Midwestern and 
Southeastern regions of the United States. The Bancorp reports 

on four business segments: Commercial Banking, Branch 

Banking, Consumer Lending and Investment Advisors. The 
Bancorp also has a 49% interest in Fifth Third Processing 
Solutions, LLC. 
This overview of MD&A highlights selected information in 
the financial results of the Bancorp and may not contain all of the 

information that is important to you. For a more complete 

understanding of trends, even
ts, commitments, uncertainties, liquidity, capital resources and 
critical accounting policies and 
estimates, you should carefully read this entire document. Each of 
these items could have an impact on the Bancorp™s financial 
condition, results of oper
ations and cash flows. 
The Bancorp believes that banking is first and foremost a 
relationship business where the strength of the competition and 

challenges for growth can vary in every market. The Bancorp 

believes its affiliate operating model provides a competitive 

advantage by emphasizing indivi
dual relationships. Through its 
affiliate operating model, individual managers at all levels within 
the affiliates are given the opportunity to tailor financial solutions 
for their customers. 
The Bancorp™s revenues are dependent on both net interest 
income and noninterest income. For the year ended December 31, 
2010, net interest income, on an
 FTE basis, and noninterest 
income provided 58% and 42% of total revenue, respectively. 

Changes in interest rates, credit
 quality, economic trends and the 
capital markets are primary factors that drive the performance of 
the Bancorp. As discussed later in the Risk Management section, 
risk identification, measuremen
t, monitoring, control and 
reporting are important to the management of risk and to the 

financial performance and capital strength of the Bancorp.  
Net interest income is the difference between interest income 
earned on assets such as loans, le
ases and securities, and interest 
expense incurred on liabilities su
ch as deposits, short-term 
borrowings and long-term debt. Net interest income is affected by 
the general level of interest rates,
 the relative level of short-term 
and long-term interest rates, changes in interest rates and changes 

in the amount and composition of interest-earning assets and 

interest-bearing liabilities. Generally, the rates of interest the 

Bancorp earns on its assets and pays on its liabilities are 

established for a period of time. The change in market interest 

rates over time exposes the Bancorp to interest rate risk through 

potential adverse changes to net interest income and financial 
position. The Bancorp manages this risk by continually analyzing 
and adjusting the composition of its assets and liabilities based on 

their payment streams and interest rates, the timing of their 

maturities and their sensitivity to 
changes in market interest rates. 
Additionally, in the ordinary co
urse of business, the Bancorp 
enters into certain derivative transactions as part of its overall 

strategy to manage its interest rate and prepayment risks. The 

Bancorp is also exposed to the risk of losses on its loan and lease 
portfolio as a result of changing
 expected cash flows caused by 
loan defaults and inadequate
 collateral due to a weakened 
economy within the Bancorp™s footprint. 
Net interest income, net interest margin and the efficiency 
ratio are presented in MD&A on an FTE basis. The FTE basis 

adjusts for the tax-favored status of income from certain loans 

and securities held by the Bancor
p that are not taxable for federal 
income tax purposes. The Bancorp believes this presentation to 
be the preferred industry measurement of net interest income as it 
provides a relevant comparison between taxable and non-taxable 
amounts. Noninterest income is derived primarily from mortgage 
banking net revenue, service charges on deposits, corporate 

banking revenue, fiduciary and investment management fees and 

card and processing revenue. Noninterest expense is primarily 

driven by personnel costs and occupancy expenses, costs incurred 

in the origination of loans and le
ases, and insurance expenses paid 
to the FDIC. On June 30, 2009, the Bancorp completed the sale 
(hereinafter the ﬁProcessing Business Saleﬂ) of a majority interest 

in its merchant acquiring and fi
nancial institutions processing 
business. As a result of the sale, the Bancorp recognized a pre-tax 

gain of approximately $1.8 billion. Under the terms of the sale, 

Advent International acquired an a
pproximate 51% interest in the 
business. The Bancorp accounts for the retained noncontrolling 
interest in the business under the equity method of accounting.  
Common Stock and Senior Notes Offerings 

On January 25, 2011, the Bancorp raised $1.7 billion in new 

common equity through the is
suance of 121,428,572 shares of 
common stock in an underwriting offering at an initial price of 

$14.00 per share. On January 24, 2011, the underwriters exercised 

their option to purchase an additional 12,142,857 shares at the 
offering price of $14.00 per share. In connection with this 
exercise, the Bancorp entered into a forward sale agreement which 

resulted in a final net payment of 959,821 shares on February 4, 

2011. On January 25, 2011, the Bancorp issued $1.0 billion of 
senior notes to third party investors, and entered into a 

Supplemental Indenture dated January 25, 2011 with Wilmington 

Trust Company, as Trustee, which 
modifies the existing Indenture 
for Senior Debt Securities dated April 30, 2008 between the 
Bancorp and the Trustee. The Supplemental Indenture and the 

Indenture define the rights of the Senior Notes, which Senior 

Notes are represented by Global Secu
rities dated as of January 25, 
2011. The senior notes bear a fixed rate of interest of 3.625% per 

annum. The notes are unsecured, senior obligations of the 

Bancorp. Payment of the full principal amount of the notes will be 

due upon maturity on January 25, 2016. The notes will not be 
subject to the redemption at the Bancorp™s option at any time 
prior to maturity.  Repurchase of Outstanding TARP Preferred Stock  

As further discussed in Note 24 
of the Notes to Consolidated 
Financial Statements, on December 31, 2008, the Bancorp issued 

$3.4 billion of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, 

Series F, and related warrants to the U.S. Treasury under the U.S. 
Treasury™s CPP.  
On February 2, 2011, the Bancorp redeemed all 136,320 
shares of its Series F Preferred Stock held by the U.S. Treasury. 

As discussed above, the net proceeds from the Bancorp™s January 

2011 common stock and senior notes offerings and other funds 

were used to redeem the $3.4 billion of Series F Preferred Stock. 
In connection with the redemption of the Series F preferred 
Stock, the Bancorp accelerated the accretion of the remaining 
issuance discount on the Series F Preferred Stock and recorded a 
corresponding reduction in retained earnings of $153 million. This 

resulted in a one-time, noncash re
duction in net income available 
to common shareholders and related basic and diluted earnings 

per share. This transaction will 
be reflected in the Bancorp™s 
Consolidated Financial Statements for the quarter ended March 

31, 2011. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
       Fifth Third Bancorp    17 
Dividends of $15 million were paid on February 2, 2011 
when the Series F Preferred Stock was redeemed. The Bancorp 

paid total dividends of $356 million to the U.S. Treasury while the 

Series F Preferred Stock was outstanding. The Bancorp notified 
the U.S. Treasury on February 17, 2011, of its intention to 
negotiate for the purchase of th
e warrants issued to the U.S. 
Treasury in connection with the CPP preferred stock investment. 

 
Recent Legislative Developments 

On July 21, 2010, the Dodd-Frank 
Act was signed into law. This 
act significantly changes the financial services industry and affects 

the lending, deposit, investment, trading and operating activities 
of financial institutions and their holding companies. The 
legislation establishes a Bureau 
of Consumer Financial Protection, 
changes the base for deposit insurance assessments, gives the 

Federal Reserve the ability to regulate and limit interchange rates 

charged to merchants for the use of debit cards, and excludes 

certain instruments currently included in determining Tier I 

regulatory capital. This act calls for federal regulatory agencies to 

adopt hundreds of new rules and conduct multiple studies over 
the next several years in order to implement its provisions. While 
the total impact of this legislat
ion on Fifth Third is not currently 
known, the impact is expected to
 be substantial and may have an 
adverse impact on Fifth Third™s fi
nancial performance and growth opportunities. 

 
Earnings Summary 

The Bancorp™s net income available to common shareholders for 
2010 was $503 million, or $0.63 per diluted share, which was net 
of $250 million in preferred stock dividends. The Bancorp™s net 

income available to common share
holders was $511 million, or 
$0.67 per diluted share, for 2009, which was net of $226 million in 

preferred stock dividends. The Bancorp™s results for both years 

reflect a number of significant items.  Such items affecting 2010 include: 
  $152 million of noninterest income from the settlement 
of litigation associated with one of the Bancorp™s BOLI 
policies and $25 million of noninterest expense from 

related legal fees;  $110 million of noninterest ex
pense from charges to 
representation and warranty reserves related to 
residential mortgage loans sold to third-parties; and 
 $68 million of net interest income due to the accretion 
of purchase accounting adjustments related to loans and 
deposits from acquisitions during 2008. 
 For comparison purposes, such items affecting 2009 include: 
  $1.8 billion of noninterest in
come from the Processing 
Business Sale to Advent International; 
 $244 million of noninterest income from the sale of the 
Bancorp™s Visa, Inc. Class B common shares and a $73 
million reduction to noninterest expense from the 

release of Visa litigation reserves;  $136 million of net interest income due to the accretion 
of purchase accounting adjustments related to loans and 
deposits from acquisitions during 2008; 
 $106 million income tax benefit from the decision to 
surrender one of the Bancorp™s BOLI policies and the 
determination that previously recorded losses on the 

policy are tax deductible;   $31 million of noninterest expense from charges to 
representation and warranty reserves related to 
residential mortgage loans sold to third-parties; 
 $55 million of noninterest expense from a special 
assessment by the FDIC; 
 $55 million income tax benefit from an agreement with 
the IRS to settle all of the Bancorp™s disputed leverage 
leases for all open years;  $53 million in charges to other noninterest income 
reflecting reserves recorded in connection with the 
intent to surrender one of the Bancorp™s BOLI policies 

as well as losses related to market value declines; and 
 $35 million increase to net 
income available to common 
shareholders from the exchange of 63% of outstanding 
Series G preferred shares for approximately 60 million 

common shares and $230 million in cash.   
 Net interest income increased to $3.6 billion, from $3.4 
billion in 2009. The primary reason for the seven percent increase 

in net interest income was a 39 bp increase in the net interest rate 

spread due to the runoff of higher priced term deposits in 2010 

and the benefit of lower rates offered on new term deposits, as 

well as improved pricing on commercial loans. These benefits 

were partially offset by a decrease in the accretion of purchase 
accounting adjustments related to the 2008 acquisition of First 
Charter, which were $68 milli
on in 2010, compared to $136 
million in 2009. Net interest margin was 3.66% in 2010, an 

increase of 34 bp from 2009. Noninterest income decreased 43% to $2.7 billion in 2010 
compared to $4.8 billion in 2009, driven primarily by the 

Processing Business Sale in the second quarter of 2009, which 

resulted in a pre-tax gain of $1.8 billion, as well as a $244 million 
gain related to the sale of the Bancorp™s Visa, Inc. Class B shares 
in 2009. Mortgage banking net revenue increased $94 million as a 

result of strong net servicing revenue and higher margins on sold 

loans, partially offset by a declin
e in mortgage originations. Card 
and processing revenue decreased 49% due to the Processing 

Business Sale in the second quarter of 2009. Service charges on 

deposits decreased $58 million primarily due to the impact of new 

overdraft regulation and policies which resulted in a decrease in 
overdraft occurrences. Investment advisory revenue increased $35 
million as the result of improved market performance and sales 

production that drove an increase in brokerage activity and assets 

under care. Corporate banking revenue decreased two percent 

largely due to decreases in international income and lease 

remarketing fees, partially offset by growth in syndication and 

business lending fees. 
Noninterest expense increased $29 million, or one percent, 
compared to 2009. Noninterest expense in 2010 included $25 
million in legal fees associated with the settlement of claims with 

the insurance carrier on one of the Bancorp™s BOLI policies while 

noninterest expense in 2009 included a $73 million reduction in 

the Visa litigation reserve as well as a $55 million FDIC special 

assessment charge. Total personnel costs increased $94 million, or 
six percent in 2010 compared to 2009, due primarily to 

investments in the sales force in
 2010. In addition, charges to 
representation and warranty rese
rves related to residential 
mortgage loans sold to third-part
ies totaled $110 million in 2010, 
compared to $31 million in 2009 due to a higher volume of 

repurchase demands. Partially o
ffsetting these negative impacts 
was a $123 million decrease in the provision for unfunded 

commitments and letters of credit due to lower estimates of 

inherent losses as the result of a decrease in delinquent loans 

driven by moderation in economic conditions during 2010. In 
addition, card and processing
 expense decreased $85 million 
compared to 2009 due to the Processing Business Sale in June of 

2009. Noninterest expense in 2010 and 2009 included $242 

million and $269 million, respectively, of FDIC insurance and 

other taxes.  
The Bancorp does not originate subprime mortgage loans, 
does not hold credit default swap
s and does not hold asset-backed 
securities backed by subprime mo
rtgage loans in its securities 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  18    Fifth Third Bancorp     
portfolio. However, the Bancorp has exposure to disruptions in 
the capital markets and weakened economic conditions. 

Throughout 2010, the Bancorp continued to be affected by high 

unemployment rates, weakened housing markets, particularly in 

the upper Midwest and Florida, and a challenging credit 
environment. Credit trends, however, continued to show signs of 
moderation in 2010 and, as a result, the provision for loan and 

lease losses decreased to $1.5 billion for the year ended December 

31, 2010, compared to $3.5 billion during 2009.  
Net charge-offs as a percent 
of average loans and leases 
decreased to 3.02% in 2010 comp
ared to 3.20% in 2009. In the 
third quarter of 2010, the Bancorp took significant actions to 

reduce credit risk. Residential mortgage loans in the Bancorp™s 
portfolio with a carrying value of $228 million were sold for $105 
million, generating $123 million in
 net charge-offs. Additionally, 
commercial loans with a carrying value prior to transfer of $961 

million were transferred to held-for-sale, generating $387 million 

in net charge-offs. Including the impact of these actions, 

nonperforming assets as a percent of loans, leases and other 

assets, including other real estate owned (excluding nonaccrual 

loans held for sale) decreased 
to 2.79% at December 31, 2010, 
from 4.22% at December 31, 2009. Refer to the Credit Risk 
Management section in MD&A for more information on credit 

quality.
 The Bancorp took a number of actions to strengthen its 
capital position in 2009. On June 4, 2009, the Bancorp completed 
an at-the-market offering resulting 
in the sale of $1 billion of its 
common shares at an average share 
price of $6.33. In addition, on 
June 17, 2009, the Bancorp completed its offer to exchange shares 

of its common stock and cash for shares of its Series G 

convertible preferred stock. As a result, the Bancorp recognized 

an increase in net income available to common shareholders of 

$35 million based upon the difference in carrying value of the 

Series G preferred shares and the fair value of the common shares 
and cash issued. See the Capita
l Management section of MD&A 
for further information on the Bancorp™s capital transactions. 
The Bancorp™s capital ratios exceed the ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ 
guidelines as defined by the Board of Governors of the Federal 

Reserve System. As of December 31, 2010, the Tier 1 capital ratio 

was 13.94%, the Tier 1 leverage ratio was 12.79% and the total 

risk-based capital ratio was 18.14%.
   MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
       Fifth Third Bancorp    19 
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
The Bancorp considers various mea
sures when evaluating capital 
utilization and adequacy, including the tangible equity ratio, 
tangible common equity ratio and tier I common equity ratio, in 

addition to capital ratios define
d by banking regulators. These 
calculations are intended to comp
lement the capital ratios defined 
by banking regulators for both absolute and comparative 

purposes. Because U.S. GAAP do
es not include capital ratio 
measures, the Bancorp believes there are no comparable U.S. 

GAAP financial measures to these 
ratios. Tier I common equity is 
not formally defined by U.S. GAAP or codified in the federal 
banking regulations and, therefor
e, is considered to be a non-
GAAP financial measure. Since analysts and banking regulators 

may assess the Bancorp™s capital 
adequacy using these ratios, the 
Bancorp believes they are useful to provide investors the ability to 

assess its capital adequacy on the same basis. 
The Bancorp believes these non-GAAP measures are 
important because they reflect the level of capital available to 
withstand unexpected market conditions. Additionally, 

presentation of these measures allows readers to compare certain 

aspects of the Bancorp™s capit
alization to other organizations. 
However, because there are no standardized definitions for these 

ratios, the Bancorp™s calculations may not be comparable with 

other organizations, and the usefulness of these measures to 

investors may be limited. As a result, the Bancorp encourages 
readers to consider its Consolidated Financial Statements in their 
entirety and not to rely on any single financial measure.  
The following table reconciles non-GAAP financial measures 
to U.S. GAAP as of December 31: 
  TABLE 3: NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES 
($ in millions) 
         2010 
          2009 
Total Bancorp shareholders™ equity (U.S. GAAP) 
$14,051 
$13,497
Less: 
   Goodwill 
(2,417) 
(2,417)
  Intangible assets 
(62) 
(106)
  Accumulated other comprehensive income 
(314) 
(241)
Tangible equity (1) 
11,258 10,733
Less: preferred stock 
(3,654) 
(3,609)
Tangible common equity (2) 
7,604 
7,124
  Total assets (U.S. GAAP) 
111,007 113,380
Less: 
    Goodwill    
(2,417) 
(2,417)
   Intangible assets 
(62) 
(106)
  Accumulated other comprehensive income, before tax 
(483) (370)
Tangible assets, excluding unrealized gains / losses (3) 
$108,045 
$110,487
  Total Bancorp shareholders™ equity (U.S. GAAP) 
14,051 
$13,497
Goodwill and certain other intangibles 
(2,546) 
(2,565)
Unrealized gains 
(314) 
(241)
Qualifying trust pr
eferred securities 
2,763 
2,763
Other 11 (26)
Tier I capital 
13,965 13,428
Less: Preferred stock 
(3,654) 
(3,609)
         Qualifying 
trust preferred securities 
(2,763) 
(2,763)
         Qualified noncontrolling in
terest in consolidated subsidiaries 
(30) 
-Tier I common equity (4) 
7,518 
7,056
  Risk-weighted assets (5) (
a) 100,193 
100,933
  Ratios: 
 Tangible equity (1) / (3) 
10.42% 
9.71%
Tangible common equity (2) / (3) 
7.04% 
6.45%
Tier I common equity (4) / (5) 
7.50% 
6.99%
(a)  Under the banking agencies™ risk-based capital guidelines, assets 
and credit equivalent amounts of derivatives and off-balance 
sheet exposures are assigned to broad risk categories. The aggregate 
dollar amount in each risk category is multiplied by the associ
ated risk weight of the category. The resulting weighted values 
are added together, resulting in the Ba
ncorp™s total risk-weighted assets. 
 RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS
Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
provides a discussion of the significant new accounting standards 

adopted by the Bancorp during 2010 and 2009 and the expected 

impact of significant accounting
 standards issued, but not yet 
required to be adopted. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  20    Fifth Third Bancorp     
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in 
accordance with U.S. GAAP. Certain accounting policies require 
management to exercise judgment in determining methodologies, 

economic assumptions and estimates that may materially affect 

the value of the Bancorp™s assets or liabilities and results of 

operations and cash flows. The Bancorp's critical accounting 

policies include the accounting for the ALLL, reserve for 

unfunded commitments, income taxes, valuation of servicing 

rights, fair value measurements an
d goodwill. No material changes 
were made to the valuation techniques or models described below 
during the year ended December 31, 2010.  

 ALLL 
The Bancorp disaggregates its por
tfolio loans and leases into 
portfolio segments for purposes of determining the ALLL. The 

Bancorp™s portfolio segments include commercial, residential 

mortgage, and consumer. The Banc
orp further disaggregates its 
portfolio segments into classes for purposes of monitoring and 
assessing credit quality based on certain risk characteristics. 

Classes within the commercial portfolio segment include 

commercial & industrial, commercial mortgage owner-occupied, 

commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied, commercial 

construction, and commercial leasing. The residential mortgage 

portfolio segment is also consider
ed a class. Classes within the 
consumer segment include home equity, automobile, credit card, 
and other consumer loans and leases. For an analysis of the 
Bancorp™s ALLL by portfolio segment and credit quality 

information by class, see Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated 

Financial Statements.  
Larger commercial loans included within aggregate borrower 
relationship balances exceeding $1 
million that exhibit probable or 
observed credit weaknesses, as well as loans that have been 

modified in a TDR, are subject to individual review for 
impairment. The Bancorp considers the current value of collateral, 
credit quality of any guarantees, the loan structure, and other 

factors when evaluating whether an
 individual loan is impaired. 
Other factors may include the industry of the borrower, size and 

financial condition of the borrower
, cash flow, leverage of the 
borrower, and the Bancorp™s evaluation of the borrower™s 

management. When individual lo
ans are impaired, allowances are 
determined based on management™s estimate of the borrower™s 
ability to repay the loan given th
e availability of collateral, other 
sources of cash flow, as well as evaluation of legal options 

available to the Bancorp. Allo
wances for impaired loans are 
measured based on the present valu
e of expected future cash 
flows discounted at the loan™s eff
ective interest rate, fair value of 
the underlying collateral or readily observable secondary market 

values. The Bancorp evaluates th
e collectability of both principal 
and interest when assessing th
e need for a loss accrual. 
Historical credit loss rates are applied to commercial loans 
that are not impaired or are 
impaired, but smaller than the 
established threshold of $1 million and thus not subject to specific 

allowance allocations. The loss rates are derived from a migration 

analysis, which tracks the hist
orical net charge-off experience sustained on loans according to their internal risk grade. The risk 

grading system currently utilized for allowance analysis purposes 

encompasses ten categories.  
Homogenous loans and leases in the residential mortgage and 
consumer portfolio segments are not individually risk graded. 

Rather, standard credit scoring systems and delinquency 

monitoring are used to assess 
credit risks, and allowances are 
established based on the expected net charge-offs. Loss rates are 

based on the average net charge-off history by loan category. 

Historical loss rates may be adjusted for significant factors that, in 

management™s judgment, are necessary to reflect losses inherent in 
the portfolio. Factors that management considers in the analysis 
include the effects of the national and local economies; trends in 
the nature and volume of delinquencies, charge-offs and 

nonaccrual loans; changes in loan mix; credit score migration 

comparisons; asset quality trends
; risk management and loan 
administration; changes in the in
ternal lending policies and credit 
standards; collection practices; an
d examination results from bank 
regulatory agencies and the Bancorp™s internal credit reviewers.  
The Bancorp™s current methodology for determining the 
ALLL is based on historical loss rates, current credit grades, 
specific allocation on TDRs and impaired commercial credits 

above specified thresholds an
d other qualitative adjustments. 
Allowances on individual commerc
ial loans and historical loss rates are reviewed quarterly and adjusted as necessary based on 

changing borrower and/or collat
eral conditions and actual 
collection and charge-off experien
ce. An unallocated allowance is 
maintained to recognize the imprecision in estimating and 
measuring losses when evaluating allowances for individual loans 
or pools of loans.  
Loans acquired by the Bancorp through a purchase business 
combination are recorded at fair value as of the acquisition date. 

The Bancorp does not carry over the acquired company™s ALLL, 

nor does the Bancorp add to its existing ALLL as part of purchase 

accounting. The Bancorp™s primary market areas for lending are the 
Midwestern and Southeastern regions of the United States. When 
evaluating the adequacy of allowances, consideration is given to 

these regional geographic concentrations and the closely 

associated effect changing economic conditions have on the 

Bancorp™s customers. 
 Reserve for Unfunded Commitments 
The reserve for unfunded commitments is maintained at a level 
believed by management to be su
fficient to absorb estimated 
probable losses related to unfunded credit facilities and is included 

in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The 

determination of the adequacy of the reserve is based upon an 

evaluation of the unfunded credit facilities, including an 

assessment of historical commitment 
utilization experience, credit 
risk grading and historical lo
ss rates based on credit grade 
migration. Net adjustments to the reserve for unfunded 
commitments are included in other noninterest expense in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income. 
 Income Taxes The Bancorp estimates income tax expense based on amounts 
expected to be owed to the various tax jurisdictions in which the 
Bancorp conducts business. On a quarterly basis, management 

assesses the reasonableness of its e
ffective tax rate based upon its 
current estimate of the amount and components of net income, 

tax credits and the applicable statutory tax rates expected for the 

full year. The estimated income tax expense is recorded in the 

Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are determined 
using the balance sheet method and are reported in other assets 
and accrued taxes, interest and expenses, respectively in the 

Consolidated Balance Sheets. Under this method, the net deferred 

tax asset or liability is based on the tax effects of the differences 

between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities, and 

recognizes enacted changes in 
tax rates and laws. Deferred tax 
assets are recognized to the extent they exist and are subject to a 

valuation allowance based on management™s judgment that 
realization is more-likely-than-not. 
This analysis is performed on a 
quarterly basis and includes an evaluation of all positive and 

negative evidence to determine whether realization is more-likely-

than-not. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 Fifth Third Bancorp    21 
Accrued taxes represent the net estimated amount due to 
taxing jurisdictions and are reported in accrued taxes, interest and 

expenses in the Consolidated
 Balance Sheets. The Bancorp 
evaluates and assesses the relative risks and appropriate tax 
treatment of transactions and f
iling positions after considering 
statutes, regulations, judicial precedent and other information and 

maintains tax accruals consistent with its evaluation of these 

relative risks and merits. Changes to the estimate of accrued taxes 

occur periodically due to changes 
in tax rates, interpretations of 
tax laws, the status of examinations being conducted by taxing 

authorities and changes to statutory, judicial and regulatory 

guidance that impact the relative risks of tax positions. These 
changes, when they occur, can affect deferred taxes and accrued 
taxes as well as the current period™s income tax expense and can 

be significant to the operating results of the Bancorp. For 

additional information on income taxes, see Note 21 of the Notes 

to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
 Valuation of Servicing Rights 
When the Bancorp sells loans through either securitizations or 

individual loan sales in accordance 
with its investment policies, it 
often obtains servicing rights. Servicing rights resulting from loan 

sales are initially recorded at fair
 value and subsequently amortized 
in proportion to, and over the period of, estimated net servicing 
income. Servicing rights are assessed for impairment monthly, 

based on fair value, with temporary impairment recognized 

through a valuation allowance and permanent impairment 

recognized through a write-off of
 the servicing asset and related 
valuation allowance. Key economic assumptions used in 

measuring any potential impairment of the servicing rights include 

the prepayment speeds of the underlying loans, the weighted-
average life, the discount rate, the weighted-average coupon and 
the weighted-average default rate, as applicable. The primary risk 

of material changes to the value of the servicing rights resides in 

the potential volatility in the economic assumptions used, 

particularly the prepayment speeds. 
The Bancorp monitors risk 
and adjusts its valuation 
allowance as necessary to adequately reserve for impairment in the 

servicing portfolio. For purposes of measuring impairment, the 
mortgage servicing rights are stra
tified into classes based on the 
financial asset type and interest rates. Fees received for servicing 

loans owned by investors are based on a percentage of the 

outstanding monthly principal balance of such loans and are 

included in noninterest income in 
the Consolidated Statements of 
Income as loan payments are received. Costs of servicing loans are 

charged to expense as incurred. For additional information on 

servicing rights, see Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated 
Financial Statements. 
 Fair Value Measurements
  The Bancorp measures fair value 
in accordance with U.S. GAAP, 
which defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell 

an asset or paid to transfer a 
liability in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at 
the measurement date. Valuation 
techniques the Bancorp uses to measure fair value include the 

market approach, income approa
ch and cost approach. The 
market approach uses prices or relevant information generated by 

market transactions involving iden
tical or comparable assets or 
liabilities. The income approach involves discounting future 
amounts to a single present amount and is based on current 

market expectations about thos
e future amounts. The cost 
approach is based on the amount that currently would be required 

to replace the service capacity of the asset. 
U.S. GAAP establishes a fa
ir value hierarchy, which
 prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair 
value into three broad levels. The fair value hierarchy gives the 
highest priority to quoted prices 
in active markets for identical 
assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest priority to 

unobservable inputs (Level 3). 
An instrument™s categorization 
within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of 
input that is significant to the instrument™s fair value 

measurement. The three levels with
in the fair value hierarchy are 
described as follows:   
  Level 1
 - Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets 
for identical assets or liabilit
ies that the Bancorp has the 
ability to access at the measurement date. 
Level 2
 - Inputs other than quoted prices included within 
Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, 

either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs include: 

quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active 

markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or 

liabilities in markets that are not active; inputs other 

than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or 
liability; and inputs that are 
derived principally from or 
corroborated by observable market data by correlation 

or other means. 
Level 3
 - Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability for 
which there is little, if any, market activity at the 

measurement date. Unobservable inputs reflect the 

Bancorp™s own assumptions
 about what market 
participants would use to pr
ice the asset or liability. The 
inputs are developed based on the best information 
available in the circumstances, which might include the 

Bancorp™s own financial data such as internally 

developed pricing models and discounted cash flow 

methodologies, as well as instruments for which the fair 

value determination requires significant management 

judgment.  The Bancorp's fair value measurements involve various 
valuation techniques and models, which involve inputs that are 

observable, when available, and in
clude the following significant 
instruments: available-for-sale and 
trading securities, residential 
mortgage loans held for investment and held for sale and certain 
derivatives. The following is a summary of valuation techniques 
utilized by the Bancorp for its significant assets and liabilities 

measured at fair value on a recurring basis. 
 Available-for-sale a
nd trading securities 
Where quoted prices are available in an active market, 

securities are classified with
in Level 1 of the valuation 
hierarchy. Level 1 securities include government bonds 

and exchange traded equities. If quoted market prices 

are not available, then fair values are estimated using 

pricing models, quoted prices 
of securities with similar 
characteristics, or discounted
 cash flows. Examples of 
such instruments, which are classified within Level 2 of 

the valuation hierarchy, in
clude agency and non-agency 
mortgage-backed securities, other asset-backed 

securities, obligations of U.S. Government sponsored 

agencies, and corporate and municipal bonds. Agency 

mortgage-backed securities, obligations of U.S. 

Government sponsored agencies, and corporate and 
municipal bonds are generally valued using a market 
approach based on observable 
prices of securities with 
similar characteristics. Non-agency mortgage-backed 

securities and other asset-back
ed securities are generally 
valued using an income approach based on discounted 

cash flows, incorporating prepayment speeds, 

performance of underlying collateral and specific 

tranche-level attributes. In certain cases where there is 
limited activity or less transp
arency around inputs to the 
valuation, securities are classified within Level 3 of the 

valuation hierarchy. Trading securities classified as Level 

3 consist of auction rate secu
rities. Due to the illiquidity 
in the market for these types of securities at December 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  22    Fifth Third Bancorp     
31, 2010, the Bancorp measured fair value using a 
discount rate based on the assumed holding period. 
 
Residential mortgage loans held for sale and held 

for investment 
For residential mortgage loans held for sale, fair value is 
estimated based upon mortgage-backed securities prices 

and spreads to those prices or, for certain ARM loans, 

discounted cash flow models that may incorporate the 

anticipated portfolio composition, credit spreads of 

asset-backed securities with similar collateral, and market 
conditions. The anticipated portfolio composition 

includes the effect of interest rate spreads and discount 
rates due to loan characteristics such as the state in 
which the loan was originated, the loan amount and the 

ARM margin. Residential mortgage loans held for sale 

that are valued based on mortgage-backed securities 

prices are classified within Level 2 of the valuation 

hierarchy as the valuation is based on external pricing 

for similar instruments. ARM loans classified as held for 

sale are also classified within Level 2 of the valuation 
hierarchy due to the use of observable inputs in the 
discounted cash flow model.
 These observable inputs 
include interest rate spreads from agency mortgage-

backed securities market ra
tes and observable discount rates. For residential mortgage loans reclassified from 

held for sale to held for investment, the fair value 

estimation is based primarily on the underlying collateral 

values. Therefore, these loans are classified within Level 
3 of the valuation hierarchy. 
 Derivatives 

Exchange-traded derivatives va
lued using quoted prices 
and certain over-the-counter derivatives valued using 

active bids are classified within Level 1 of the valuation 

hierarchy. Most of the Bancorp™s derivative contracts are 

valued using discounted cash flow or other models that 

incorporate current market interest rates, credit spreads 

assigned to the derivative counterparties, and other 

market parameters and, therefore, are classified within 
Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy. Such derivatives 
include basic and structured interest rate swaps and 

options. Derivatives that ar
e valued based upon models 
with significant unobserva
ble market parameters are 
classified within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. At 

December 31, 2010, derivatives classified as Level 3, 

which are valued using an option-pricing model 

containing unobservable inputs, consisted primarily of 
warrants and put rights associated with the Processing 
Business Sale and a total return swap associated with the 

Bancorp™s sale of its Visa, Inc. Class B shares. Level 3 

derivatives also include interest rate lock commitments, 

which utilize internally generated loan closing rate 

assumptions as a significan
t unobservable input in the 
valuation process. 
 Valuation techniques and parameters used for measuring 
assets and liabilities are reviewed and validated by the Bancorp on 

a quarterly basis. Additionally, the Bancorp monitors the fair 
values of significant assets and liabilities using a variety of 
methods including the evaluation of pricing runs and exception 
reports based on certain analytical 
criteria, comparison to previous 
trades and overall review and assessments for reasonableness. 
In addition to the assets and liabilities measured at fair value 
on a recurring basis, the Banc
orp measures servicing rights, 
certain loans and long-lived assets
 at fair value on a nonrecurring 
basis. Refer to Note 28 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements for further information on fair value measurements.  
 Goodwill
 Business combinations entered into by the Bancorp typically 

include the acquisition of goodwill. U.S. GAAP requires goodwill 

to be tested for impairment at the Bancorp™s reporting unit level 

on an annual basis, which for the Bancorp is September 30, and 

more frequently if events or circ
umstances indicate that there may 
be impairment. The Bancorp has determined that its segments 

qualify as reporting units under U.S. GAAP. Impairment exists 
when a reporting unit™s carrying 
amount of goodwill exceeds its 
implied fair value, which is 
determined through a two-step 
impairment test. The first step (Ste
p 1) compares the fair value of 
a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If 

the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, 

the second step (Step 2) of the goodwill impairment test is 

performed to measure the impairment loss amount, if any. The fair value of a reporting unit is the price that would be 
received to sell the unit as a whole in an orderly transaction 
between market participants at
 the measurement date. Since none 
of the Bancorp™s reporting units are publicly traded, individual 

reporting unit fair value determinations cannot be directly 

correlated to the Bancorp™s stock price. To determine the fair 

value of a reporting unit, the Bancorp employs an income-based 

approach, utilizing the reporting unit™s forecasted cash flows 
(including a terminal value appr
oach to estimate cash flows 
beyond the final year of the forecast) and the reporting unit™s 
estimated cost of equity as the discount rate. Additionally, the 

Bancorp determines its market capitalization based on the average 

of the closing price of the Bancorp's stock during the month 

including the measurement date, incorporating an additional 

control premium, and allocates this market-based fair value 

measurement to the Bancorp's reporting units in order to 

corroborate the results of the income approach.  
When required to perform Step 2, the Bancorp compares the 
implied fair value of a reporting 
unit™s goodwill with the carrying 
amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount exceeds the 

implied fair value, an impairment 
loss equal to that excess amount 
is recognized. An impairment loss recognized cannot exceed the 

carrying amount of that goodwill 
and cannot be reversed even if 
the fair value of the reporting unit recovers. 
During Step 2, the Bancorp determines the implied fair value 
of goodwill for a reporting unit by assigning the fair value of the 
reporting unit to all of the asse
ts and liabilities of that unit 
(including any unrecognized intang
ible assets) as if the reporting 
unit had been acquired in a business combination. The excess of 

the fair value of the reporting un
it over the amounts assigned to 
its assets and liabilities is the imp
lied fair value of goodwill. This 
assignment process is only performed for purposes of testing 

goodwill for impairment. The Bancorp does not adjust the 
carrying values of recognized assets or liabilities (other than 
goodwill, if appropriate), nor reco
gnize previously unrecognized 
intangible assets in the Consol
idated Financial Statements as a 
result of this assignment process.
 Refer to Note 10 of the Notes 
to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information 

regarding the Bancorp™s goodwill.    
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
   23    Fifth Third Bancorp 
RISK FACTORS
The risks listed here are not the onl
y risks that Fifth Third faces. 
Additional risks that are not presen
tly known or that Fifth Third 
presently deems to be immaterial could also have a material, 

adverse impact on its financial condition, the results of its 

operations, or its business. 
 RISKS RELATING TO ECONOMIC AND MARKET 

CONDITIONS 

 Weakness in the economy and in the real estate market, 
including specific weakness within Fifth Third™s geographic 
footprint, has adversely af
fected Fifth Third and may 
continue to adversely affect Fifth Third. 
If the strength of the U.S. economy in general and the strength of 

the local economies in which Fifth Third conducts operations 

declines or does not improve in a reasonable time frame, this 

could result in, among other things, a deterioration in credit 
quality or a reduced demand for credit, including a resultant effect 
on Fifth Third™s loan portfolio and ALLL and in the receipt of 

lower proceeds from the sale of loans and foreclosed properties. 

A significant portion of Fifth Third™s residential mortgage and 

commercial real estate loan portfo
lios are comprised of borrowers 
in Michigan, Northern Ohio and Florida, which markets have 

been particularly adversely affected by job losses, declines in real 

estate value, declines in home sale volumes, and declines in new 
home building. These factors could 
result in higher delinquencies, 
greater charge-offs and increased 
losses on the sale of foreclosed 
real estate in future periods, 
which could materially adversely 
affect Fifth Third™s financial condition and results of operations. 
 Changes in interest rates coul
d affect Fifth Third™s income 
and cash flows. 
Fifth Third™s income and cash flows depend to a great extent on 
the difference between the interest rates earned on interest-
earning assets such as loans and investment securities, and the 

interest rates paid on interest-bea
ring liabilities such as deposits 
and borrowings. These rates are highly sensitive to many factors 

that are beyond Fifth Third™s control, including general economic 

conditions and the policies of various governmental and 

regulatory agencies (in particular, the FRB). Changes in monetary 

policy, including changes in inte
rest rates, will influence the 
origination of loans, the prepaymen
t speed of loans, the purchase 
of investments, the generation of deposits and the rates received 

on loans and investment securities and paid on deposits or other 

sources of funding. The impact of these changes may be 

magnified if Fifth Third does not effectively manage the relative 

sensitivity of its assets and liabiliti
es to changes in market interest 
rates. Fluctuations in these areas may adversely affect Fifth Third 

and its shareholders. 
 Changes and trends in the capital markets may affect Fifth 
Third™s income and cash flows. Fifth Third enters into and m
aintains trading and investment 
positions in the capital market
s on its own behalf and manages 
investment positions on behalf of its customers. These investment 

positions include derivative fina
ncial instruments. The revenues 
and profits Fifth Third derives from managing proprietary and 
customer trading and investment positions are dependent on 
market prices. If Fifth Third does
 not correctly anticipate market 
changes and trends, Fifth Third may experience a decline in 

investment advisory revenue or investment or trading losses that 

may materially affect Fifth Third. Losses on behalf of its 

customers could expose Fifth Third 
to litigation, credit risks or 
loss of revenue from those customers. Additionally, substantial 

losses in Fifth Third™s trading and investment positions could lead 
to a loss with respect to those investments and may adversely 
affect cash flows and funding costs. 
 The removal or reduction in stimulus activities sponsored by 
the Federal Government and its agents may have a negative 
impact on Fifth Third™s results and operations. 
The Federal Government has intervened in an unprecedented 

manner to stimulate economic growth. Some of these activities 

have included the following:  Target fed funds rates which have remained close to 
zero percent; 
 Mortgage rates that have remained at historical lows in 
part due to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York™s 
$1.25 trillion mortgage-backed securities purchase 
program; 
 Bank funding that has remained stable through an 
increase in FDIC deposit in
surance to a covered limit 
of $250,000 per account from the previous coverage 

limit of $100,000; and 
 Housing demand that has been stimulated by 
homebuyer tax credits.  
 
The expiration or rescission of any of these programs may 
have an adverse impact on Fifth Third™s operating results by 

increasing interest rates, increasing the cost of funding, and 

reducing the demand for loan prod
ucts, including mortgage loans. 
 Problems encountered by financial institutions larger than or 
similar to Fifth Third could adversely affect financial 
markets generally and have indirect adverse effects on Fifth 
Third.  
 The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be 

closely interrelated as a result of 
credit, trading, clearing or other 
relationships between the instituti
ons. As a result, concerns about, 
or a default or threatened default 
by, one institution could lead to 
significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or 

defaults by other institutions. Th
is is sometimes referred to as 
ﬁsystemic riskﬂ and may adversely affect financial intermediaries, 

such as clearing agencies, clearing
 houses, banks, securities firms 
and exchanges, with which the Bancorp interacts on a daily basis, 

and therefore could adversely affect Fifth Third.
  Fifth Third™s stock price is volatile. 
Fifth Third™s stock price has been volatile in the past and several 
factors could cause the price to fluctuate substantially in the 

future. These factors include:  Actual or anticipated variations in earnings; 
 Changes in analysts™ recommendations or projections; 
 Fifth Third™s announcements of developments related to 
its businesses; 
 Operating and stock performance of other companies 
deemed to be peers;  
 Actions by government regulators; 
 New technology used or services offered by traditional 
and non-traditional competitors; and 
 News reports of trends, concerns and other issues 
related to the financial services industry.  The price for shares of Fifth Third™s common stock may fluctuate 

significantly in the future, and these fluctuations may be unrelated 

to Fifth Third™s performance. Gen
eral market price declines or 
market volatility in the future could adversely affect the price for 
shares of Fifth Third™s common stock, and the current market 
price of such shares may not be in
dicative of future market prices.  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  24   Fifth Third Bancorp     
RISKS RELATING TO FIFTH THIRD™S GENERAL 
BUSINESS 
 Deteriorating credit quality, particularly in real estate loans, 
has adversely impacted Fifth Third and may continue to 
adversely impact Fifth Third. 
Fifth Third has experienced a down
turn in credit performance and 
credit conditions and the performance of its loan portfolio could 

deteriorate in the future. The do
wnturn caused Fifth Third to 
increase its ALLL, driven primarily by higher allocations related to 

residential mortgage and home equity loans, commercial real 

estate loans and loans of entities related to or dependent upon the 

real estate industry. If the performance of Fifth Third™s loan 
portfolio does not continue to improve and/or stabilize, 
additional increases in the ALLL 
may be necessary in the future. 
Accordingly, a decrease in the 
quality of Fifth Third™s credit 
portfolio could have a material adverse effect on earnings and 

results of operations. 

 Fifth Third must maintain adequate sources of funding and 
liquidity.
 Fifth Third must maintain adequate funding sources in the normal 
course of business to support its 
operations and fund outstanding 
liabilities, as well as meet regulatory expectations. Fifth Third™s 

ability to maintain sources of 
funding and liquidity could be 
impacted by changes in the capital markets in which it operates. 

Additionally, if Fifth Third sought additional sources of capital, 

liquidity or funding, those additional sources could dilute current 

shareholders™ ownership interests. 
 If Fifth Third does not adjust to rapid changes in the 
financial services industry, its financial performance may 
suffer. Fifth Third™s ability to deliver strong financial performance and 

returns on investment to shareholde
rs will depend in part on its 
ability to expand the scope of available financial services to meet 

the needs and demands of its cu
stomers. In addition to the 
challenge of competing against other banks in attracting and 
retaining customers for traditional banking services, Fifth Third™s competitors also include securities dealers, brokers, mortgage 

bankers, investment advisors, specialty finance and insurance 

companies who seek to offer one-
stop financial services that may 
include services that banks have 
not been able or allowed to offer 
to their customers in the past or may not be currently able or 

allowed to offer. This increasing
ly competitive environment is 
primarily a result of changes in regulation, changes in technology 
and product delivery systems, as well as the accelerating pace of 

consolidation among financial service providers. 
 If Fifth Third is unable to grow its deposits, it may be 
subject to paying higher funding costs. 
The total amount that Fifth Third pays for funding costs is 

dependent, in part, on Fifth Third™
s ability to grow its deposits. If 
Fifth Third is unable to sufficiently grow its deposits, it may be 
subject to paying higher fundin
g costs. This could materially 
adversely affect Fifth Third™s earn
ings and results of operations.  Fifth Third™s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries 
accounts for most of its revenue and could affect its liquidity 
and ability to pay dividends. 
  Fifth Third Bancorp is a separate an
d distinct legal entity from its 
subsidiaries. Fifth Third Bancorp typically receives substantially all 
of its revenue from dividends from its subsidiaries. These 

dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on 

Fifth Third Bancorp™s stock and interest and principal on its debt. 

Various federal and/or state laws and regulations, as well as 

regulatory expectations, limit the amount of dividends that Fifth 
Third™s bank and certain nonbank subsidiaries may pay. Also, 
Fifth Third Bancorp™s right to pa
rticipate in a distribution of 
assets upon a subsidiary™s liquidati
on or reorganization is subject 
to the prior claims of that subsid
iary™s creditors. Limitations on 
Fifth Third™s ability to receive dividends from its subsidiaries 
could have a material adverse effect on Fifth Third™s liquidity and 
ability to pay dividends on stock or
 interest and principal on its 
debt. 
 The financial services industry is highly competitive and 
creates competitive pressures that could adversely affect 
Fifth Third™s revenue and profitability.  
 The financial services industry in which Fifth Third operates is 
highly competitive. Fifth Third competes not only with 
commercial banks, but also with 
insurance companies, mutual
 funds, hedge funds, and other companies offering financial 

services in the U.S., globally and over the internet. Fifth Third 

competes on the basis of several fa
ctors, including capital, access 
to capital, revenue generation, 
products, services, transaction 
execution, innovation, reputation 
and price. Over time, certain 
sectors of the financial services
 industry have become more 
concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial 
services have been acquired by or merged into other firms. 

Recently, this trend accelerated c
onsiderably, as several major U.S. 
financial institutions consolidated, were forced to merge, received 

substantial government assistance or were placed into 

conservatorship by the U.S. Government. These developments 

could result in Fifth Third™s co
mpetitors gaining greater capital 
and other resources, such as a broader range of products and 
services and geographic diversity. Fifth Third may experience 
pricing pressures as a result of these factors and as some of its 

competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. 

 Fifth Third and/or the holders of its securities could be 
adversely affected by unfavorable ratings from rating 
agencies.  Fifth Third™s ability to access the 
capital markets is important to 
its overall funding profile. This access is affected by the ratings 
assigned by rating agencies to Fifth Third, certain of its 

subsidiaries and particular classes of securities they issue. The 

interest rates that Fifth Third 
pays on its securities are also 
influenced by, among other things, the credit ratings that it, its 

subsidiaries and/or its securities receive from recognized rating 

agencies. A downgrade to Fifth Th
ird or its subsidiaries™ credit 
rating could affect its ability to access the capital markets, increase 
its borrowing costs and negatively impact its profitability. A 
ratings downgrade to Fifth Third, its subsidiaries or their securities 
could also create obligations or liab
ilities to Fifth Third under the 
terms of its outstanding securities 
that could increase Fifth Third™s 
costs or otherwise have a negative
 effect on the Bancorp™s results 
of operations or financial condition. Additionally, a downgrade of 

the credit rating of any particular 
security issued by Fifth Third or 
its subsidiaries could negatively affect the ability of the holders of 
that security to sell the securities
 and the prices at which any such 
securities may be sold. On November 1, 2010, citing their view 

that the likelihood of government support in the future for larger 

regional banks had declined, Moody™s downgraded ten large 

regional banks, including Fifth Third™s subsidiary bank, Fifth 

Third Bank. Fifth Third Bank™s 
credit ratings for short-term 
obligations, long-term deposit and senior debt were downgraded 

to P2, A3 and A3, respectively, from P1, A2 and A2, respectively. 
During 2010, DBRS Investors Service downgraded Fifth Third™s 
issuer rating to ﬁALﬂ from ﬁAﬂ and downgraded the long term 

debt rating and deposit ratings fo
r Fifth Third™s bank subsidiary to 
ﬁAﬂ from ﬁAH.ﬂ 

 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
       Fifth Third Bancorp    25 
Fifth Third could suffer if it fails to attract and retain skilled 
personnel. 
As Fifth Third continues to grow, its success depends, in large 

part, on its ability to attract and retain key individuals. 
Competition for qualified candidates in the activities and markets 
that Fifth Third serves is great and Fifth Third may not be able to 

hire these candidates and retain th
em. If Fifth Third is not able to 
hire or retain these key individuals, Fifth Third may be unable to 

execute its business strategies and may suffer adverse 

consequences to its business, operations and financial condition.       Pursuant to the standardized terms of the CPP, among other 

things, Fifth Third has agreed to institute certain restrictions on 
the compensation of certain senior management positions, which 
could have an adverse effect on Fifth Third™s ability to hire or 

retain the most qualified senior management. It is possible that 

the U.S. Treasury may, as it is
 permitted to do, impose further 
requirements on Fifth Third. In June 2010, the federal banking 

agencies issued joint guidan
ce on executive compensation 
intended to ensure that a bank organization™s incentive 

compensation policies don™t encourage excessive risk taking. In 
addition, the Dodd-Frank Act requires those agencies to adopt 
guidance or rules to enhance the reporting of incentive 

compensation and to prohibit certain compensation arrangements. 

Also in 2010, the FDIC issued a request for comments on 

whether banks with compensation plans that encourage excessive 

risk taking should be charged at higher deposit assessment rates 

than such banks would otherwise be charged. If Fifth Third is 

unable to attract and retain quali
fied employees, or do so at rates 
necessary to maintain its competit
ive position, or if compensation 
costs required to attract and retain employees become more 

expensive, Fifth Third™s performance, including its competitive 

position, could be materially adversely affected.  
 Fifth Third™s mortgage banking revenue can be volatile from 
quarter to quarter. 
Fifth Third earns revenue from the fees it receives for originating 

mortgage loans and for servicing mortgage loans. When rates rise, 

the demand for mortgage loans tends to fall, reducing the revenue 

Fifth Third receives from loan originations. At the same time, 

revenue from MSRs can increase through increases in fair value. 
When rates fall, mortgage originations tend to increase and the 
value of MSRs tends to decline, also with some offsetting revenue 

effect. Even though they can act as a ﬁnatural hedge,ﬂ the hedge is 

not perfect, either in amount or 
timing. For example, the negative 
effect on revenue from a decrease in the fair value of residential 

MSRs is immediate, but any offsetting revenue benefit from more 

originations and the MSRs relatin
g to the new loans would accrue 
over time. It is also possible that, because of the recession and 
deteriorating housing market, even 
if interest rates were to fall, 
mortgage originations may also fall or any increase in mortgage 

originations may not be enough to offset the decrease in the 

MSRs value caused by the lower rates.  

     Fifth Third typically uses derivatives and other instruments to 

hedge its mortgage banking interest
 rate risk. Fifth Third generally 
does not hedge all of its risks, and the fact that Fifth Third 

attempts to hedge any of the risk
s does not mean Fifth Third will 
be successful. Hedging is a complex process, requiring 
sophisticated models and constant monitoring, and is not a 

perfect science. Fifth Third may use hedging instruments tied to 

U.S. Treasury rates, LIBOR or Eurodollars that may not perfectly 

correlate with the value or income being hedged. Fifth Third 

could incur significant losses from its hedging activities. There 

may be periods where Fifth Third 
elects not to use derivatives and 
other instruments to hedge mortgage
 banking interest rate risk.  
 The preparation of Fifth Third™s financial statements 
requires the use of estimates 
that may vary from actual 
results. The preparation of consolidat
ed financial statements in 
conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make 
significant estimates that affect the financial statements. Two of 

Fifth Third™s most critical estimates are the level of the ALLL and 

the valuation of mortgage servicing rights. Due to the uncertainty 

of estimates involved, Fifth Third may have to significantly 

increase the ALLL and/or sust
ain credit losses that are 
significantly higher than the provided allowance and could 

recognize a significant provision 
for impairment of its mortgage 
servicing rights. If Fifth Third™s ALLL is not adequate, Fifth 
Third™s business, financial condition, including its liquidity and 

capital, and results of operations could be materially adversely 

affected.  Fifth Third regularly reviews its litigation reserves for 
adequacy considering its litigation risks and probability of 

incurring losses related to litiga
tion. However, Fifth Third cannot 
be certain that its current litigation reserves will be adequate over 
time to cover its losses in litigation due to higher than anticipated 
settlement costs, prolonged litigati
on, adverse judgments, or other 
factors that are largely outside of Fifth Third™s control. If Fifth 

Third™s litigation reserves are not 
adequate, Fifth Third™s business, 
financial condition, including its liquidity and capital, and results 

of operations could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, 

in the future, Fifth Third may increase its litigation reserves, which 

could have a material adverse effect on its capital and results of 
operations. 
 Changes in accounting standards could impact Fifth Third™s 
reported earnings and financial condition. 
The accounting standard setters, including the FASB, the SEC and 

other regulatory bodies, periodically change the financial 

accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation of 

Fifth Third™s consolidated financial statements. These changes can 
be hard to predict and can materially impact how Fifth Third 
records and reports its financial condition and results of 

operations. In some cases, Fifth Third could be required to apply 

a new or revised standard retroactively, which would result in the 

recasting of Fifth Third™s prior period financial statements. 
 Future acquisitions may dilute current shareholders™ 
ownership of Fifth Third and may cause Fifth Third to 
become more susceptible to adverse economic events. 
Future business acquisitions could be material to Fifth Third and 
it may issue additional shares of stock to pay for those 

acquisitions, which would dilute 
current shareholders™ ownership 
interests. Acquisitions also could require Fifth Third to use 

substantial cash or other liquid asse
ts or to incur debt. In those 
events, Fifth Third could become more susceptible to economic 

downturns and competitive pressures. 
 Difficulties in combining the op
erations of acquired entities 
with Fifth Third™s own operations may prevent Fifth Third 
from achieving the expected benefits from its acquisitions. 
Inherent uncertainties exist when 
integrating the operations of an 
acquired entity. Fifth Third may not be able to fully achieve its 

strategic objectives and planned 
operating efficiencies in an 
acquisition. In addition, the markets and industries in which Fifth 
Third and its potential acquisition targets operate are highly 
competitive. Fifth Third may lose customers or the customers of 

acquired entities as a result of an acquisition. Future acquisition 

and integration activities may 
require Fifth Third to devote 
substantial time and resources and as a result Fifth Third may not 

be able to pursue other 
business opportunities.   
After completing an acquisition, Fifth Third may find certain 
items are not accounted for properly in accordance with financial 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  26   Fifth Third Bancorp     
accounting and reporting standards. Fifth Third may also not 
realize the expected benefits of the acquisition due to lower 

financial results pertaining to the acquired entity. For example, 

Fifth Third could experience higher charge offs than originally 
anticipated related to the acquired loan portfolio. 
 Fifth Third may sell or consider selling one or more of its 
businesses. Should it determine to sell such a business, it 
may not be able to generate gains on sale or related increase 
in shareholders™ equity commensurate with desirable levels. 
Moreover, if Fifth Third sold 
such businesses, the loss of 
income could have an adverse effect on its earnings and 
future growth. 
Fifth Third owns several non-strategic businesses that are not 
significantly synergistic with its 
core financial serv
ices businesses. 
Fifth Third has, from time to time, considered the sale of such 

businesses. If it were to determine to sell such businesses, Fifth 

Third would be subject to market forces that may make 

completion of a sale unsuccessful or may not be able to do so 

within a desirable time frame. If Fifth Third were to complete the 

sale of non-core businesses, it would suffer the loss of income 

from the sold businesses, and such loss of income could have an 
adverse effect on its future earnings and growth. 
 Material breaches in security
 of Fifth Third™s systems may 
have a significant effect on Fifth Third™s business.   
Fifth Third collects, processes and stores sensitive consumer data 

by utilizing computer systems and telecommunications networks 

operated by both Fifth Third and third party service providers. 

Fifth Third has security, backup and recovery systems in place, as 
well as a business continuity plan to ensure the system will not be 
inoperable. Fifth Third also has s
ecurity to prevent unauthorized 
access to the system. In addition, Fifth Third requires its third 

party service providers to maintain similar controls. However, 

Fifth Third cannot be certain that the measures will be successful. 

A security breach in the system and loss of confidential 

information such as credit card numbers and related information 

could result in losing the customer
s™ confidence and thus the loss 
of their business as well as additional significant costs for privacy 
monitoring activities.   Fifth Third is exposed to operational and reputational risk. 
Fifth Third is exposed to many types of operational risk, including 
reputational risk, legal and comp
liance risk, environmental risks from its properties, the risk of fraud or theft by employees, 

customers or outsiders, unauthor
ized transactions by employees, 
operating system disruptions or operational errors. 
 Negative public opinion can result from Fifth Third™s actual 
or alleged conduct in activities, such as lending practices, data 

security, corporate governance and acquisitions, and may damage 

Fifth Third™s reputation. Negative public opinion has been 
observed in relation to banks partic
ipating in the U.S. Treasury™s 
TARP program, in which Fifth Third was a participant. 

Additionally, actions taken by government regulators and 

community organizations may 
also damage Fifth Third™s 
reputation. This negative public 
opinion can adversely affect Fifth 
Third™s ability to attract and keep
 customers and can expose it to 
litigation and regulatory action.  
Fifth Third™s necessary dependence upon automated systems 
to record and process its transaction volume poses the risk that 
technical system flaws or employee errors, tampering or 

manipulation of those systems will result in losses and may be 

difficult to detect. Fifth Third ma
y also be subject to disruptions 
of its operating systems arising fr
om events that are beyond its 
control (for example, comput
er viruses or electrical or 
telecommunications outages). Fift
h Third is further exposed to 
the risk that its third party service providers may be unable to 
fulfill their contractual obligations (or will be subject to the same 
risk of fraud or operational errors as Fifth Third). These 

disruptions may interfere with se
rvice to Fifth Third™s customers 
and result in a financial loss or liability. 
 The inability of FTPS to succeed as a stand-alone entity 
could have a negative impact on Fifth Third™s operating 
results and financial condition. 
During the second quarter of 2009, Fifth Third sold an 

approximate 51% interest in FTPS
 to Advent International. Prior 
to the sale, FTPS relied on Fifth Third to support its operating 

and administrative functions. 
Fifth Third has entered into 
agreements to provide FTPS certain services during the 
deconversion period. Fifth Third™s 
operating results may suffer if 
the cost of providing these services exceeds the amount received 

from FTPS. As part of the sale, FTPS also assumed loans owed 

Fifth Third. Repayment of these loans is contingent on future 

cash flows and profitability at FTPS.   

     In connection with the sale, Fifth Third provided Advent 

International with certain put righ
ts that are exercisable in the 
event of three unlikely circumstances. Based on Fifth Third™s 
current ownership share in FTPS of approximately 49%, FTPS is 
accounted for under the equity method and is not consolidated. 

The exercise of the put rights wo
uld result in FTPS becoming a 
wholly owned subsidiary of Fifth 
Third. As a result, FTPS would 
be consolidated and would subject Fifth Third to the risks 

inherent in integrating a business. Additionally, such a change in 

the accounting treatment for FTPS may adversely impact Fifth 

Third™s capital.  Weather related events or other natural disasters may have 
an effect on the performance of
 Fifth Third™s loan portfolios, 
especially in its coastal markets, thereby adversely impacting 
its results of operations. 
Fifth Third™s footprint stretches from the upper Midwestern to 

lower Southeastern regions of the United States. This area has 

experienced weather events includ
ing hurricanes and other natural 
disasters. The nature and level of these events and the impact of 
global climate change upon their frequency and severity cannot be 

predicted. If large scale events o
ccur, they may significantly impact its loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as collateral as 

well as impairing its borrower™s 
ability to repay their loans.  
RISKS RELATED TO THE LEGAL AND REGULATORY 

ENVIRONMENT 
 As a regulated entity, Fifth Third must maintain certain 
capital requirements that ma
y limit its operations and 
potential growth.  
 Fifth Third is a bank holding company and a financial holding 

company. As such, Fifth Third is subject to the comprehensive, 

consolidated supervision and regulation of the FRB, including 

risk-based and leverage capital requirements. Fifth Third must 
maintain certain risk-based and leve
rage capital ratios as required 
by its banking regulators and which can change depending upon 

general economic conditions and Fifth Third™s particular 

condition, risk profile and gr
owth plans. Compliance with the 
capital requirements, including leverage ratios, may limit 

operations that require the intensive use of capital and could 

adversely affect Fifth Third™s abilit
y to expand or maintain present 
business levels. 
Fifth Third™s subsidiary bank must remain well-capitalized, 
well-managed and maintain at leas
t a ﬁSatisfactoryﬂ CRA rating 
for Fifth Third to retain its status as a financial holding company. 

Failure to meet these requirements 
could result in the FRB placing 
limitations or conditions on Fift
h Third™s activities (and the 
commencement of new activities) and 
could ultimately result in 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
       Fifth Third Bancorp    27 
the loss of financial holding company status. In addition, failure 
by Fifth Third™s bank subsidiar
y to meet applicable capital 
guidelines could subject the bank to a variety of enforcement 

remedies available to the federal regulatory authorities. These 
include limitations on the ability to pay dividends, the issuance by 
the regulatory authority of a capit
al directive to increase capital, 
and the termination of deposit insurance by the FDIC.  
Fifth Third™s business, financial condition and results of 
operations could be adversely affected by new or changed 
regulations and by the manner in which such regulations are 
applied by regulatory authorities. 
 Current economic conditions, partic
ularly in the financial markets, 
have resulted in government regulatory agencies placing increased 
focus on and scrutiny of the fina
ncial services industry. The U.S. 
Government has intervened on an unprecedented scale, 

responding to what has been commonly referred to as the 

financial crisis. In addition to the 
Bancorp™s participation in U.S. 
Treasury™s CPP and Capital A
ssistance Program, the U.S. 
Government has taken steps that include enhancing the liquidity 

support available to financial institutions, establishing a 
commercial paper funding facility, temporarily guaranteeing 
money market funds and certain types of debt issuances, and 

increasing insured deposits. These programs subject the Bancorp 

and other financial institutions who have participated in these 

programs to additional restricti
ons, oversight and/or costs that 
may have an impact on the Ba
ncorp™s business, financial 
condition, results of operations or
 the price of its common stock.  
Compliance with such regulation and scrutiny may 
significantly increase the Bancorp™s costs, impede the efficiency of 
its internal business processes, require it to increase its regulatory 

capital and limit its ability to purs
ue business opportunities in an 
efficient manner. The Bancorp also may be required to pay 

significantly higher FDIC premiums because market 

developments have significantly depleted the insurance fund of 

the FDIC and reduced the ratio of
 reserves to insured deposits. 
The increased costs associated with anticipated regulatory and 
political scrutiny could adversely 
impact the Bancorp™s results of 
operations.  New proposals for legislation continue to be introduced in 
the U.S. Congress that could further substantially increase 

regulation of the financial servi
ces industry. The Bancorp cannot 
predict whether any pending or fu
ture legislation will be adopted 
or the substance and impact of any such new legislation on the 

Bancorp. Additional regulation could affect the Bancorp in a 
substantial way and could have an adverse effect on its business, 
financial condition and results of operations.   
 Fifth Third is subject to various regulatory requirements that 
limit its operations and potential growth. 
Under federal and state laws and regulations pertaining to the 

safety and soundness of insured 
depository institutions and their 
holding companies, the FRB and the Ohio Division of Financial 
Institutions have the authority to 
compel or restrict certain actions 
by Fifth Third and its subsidiary bank. Fifth Third and its 

subsidiary bank are subject to su
ch supervisory authority and, 
more generally, must, in certain 
instances, obtain prior regulatory 
approval before engaging in certain activities or corporate 

decisions. There can be no assura
nce that such approvals, if 
required, would be forthcoming or
 that such approvals would be 
granted in a timely manner. Failure to receive any such approval, if 
required, could limit or impair Fi
fth Third™s operations, restrict its 
growth and/or affect its dividend policy. Such actions and 

activities subject to prior approval include, but are not limited to, 

increasing dividends paid by Fifth Third or its subsidiary bank, 

purchasing or redeeming any shares of its stock, entering into a 
merger or acquisition transaction, acquiring or establishing new 
branches, and entering into new businesses. 
 In addition, Fifth Third, as well as other financial institutions 
more generally, have recently been subjected to increased scrutiny 
from regulatory authorities stemming from broader systemic 
regulatory concerns, including with respect to stress testing, 

capital levels, asset quality, provisioning and other prudential 

matters, arising as a result of th
e recent financial crisis and efforts 
to ensure that financial institutions take steps to improve their risk 

management and prevent future crises.  
In some cases, regulatory agen
cies may take supervisory 
actions that are considered to be confidential supervisory 
information which may not be publicly disclosed. Finally, as part 
of Fifth Third™s regular examinati
on process, Fifth Third™s and its 
subsidiary bank™s respective regu
lators may advise it and its 
subsidiary bank to operate under various restrictions as a 

prudential matter. Such supervisory actions or restrictions, if and 

in whatever manner imposed, could have a material adverse effect 

on Fifth Third™s business and results of operations. 

 Fifth Third and/or its affiliates
 are or may become involved 
from time to time in information-gathering requests, 
investigations and proceedings by government and self-
regulatory agencies which may lead to adverse 
consequences. 
Fifth Third and/or its affiliates are or may become involved from 

time to time in information-gathering requests, reviews, 

investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by 
government and self-regulatory agencies, including the SEC, 
regarding their respective businesse
s. Such matters may result in 
material adverse consequences, 
including without limitation, 
adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or 

other actions, amendments and/or restatements of Fifth Third™s 

SEC filings and/or financial statements, as applicable, and/or 

determinations of material weaknesses in its disclosure controls 

and procedures. The SEC is inve
stigating and has made several 
requests for information, including by subpoena, concerning 
issues which Fifth Third understands relate to accounting and 

reporting matters involving certain
 of its commercial loans. This 
could lead to an enforcement proceeding by the SEC which, in 

turn, may result in one or more such material adverse 

consequences. 
 Deposit insurance premiums levied against Fifth Third may 
increase if the number of bank failures do not subside or the 
cost of resolving failed banks increases.  
The FDIC maintains a DIF to resolve the cost of bank failures. 

The DIF is funded by fees assessed on insured depository 

institutions including Fifth Third. The magnitude and cost of 

resolving an increased number of bank failures have reduced the 

DIF. In 2009, the FDIC collected a special assessment to 

replenish the DIF. In addition, a prepayment of an estimated 
amount of future deposit insurance premiums was made on 
December 30, 2009. Future deposit premiums paid by Fifth Third 

depend on the level of the DIF and the magnitude and cost of 

future bank failures. 
 Legislative or regulatory compliance, changes or actions or 
significant litigation, could adversely impact the Bancorp or 
the businesses in which the Bancorp is engaged. 
 The Bancorp is subject to extensive state and federal regulation, 
supervision and legislation that govern almost all aspects of its 

operations and limit the businesses in which the Bancorp may 

engage. These laws and regulations may change from time to time 

and are primarily intended for the protection of consumers, 

depositors and the deposit insurance funds. The impact of any 

changes to laws and regulations or other actions by regulatory 

agencies may negatively impact
 the Bancorp or its ability to 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  28    Fifth Third Bancorp     
increase the value of its business. Additionally, actions by 
regulatory agencies or significant litigation against the Bancorp 

could cause it to devote sign
ificant time and resources to 
defending itself and may lead to penalties that materially affect the 

Bancorp and its shareholders. Future changes in the laws, 
including tax laws, or, as a pa
rticipant in the CPP under the 
EESA, the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder or the 

American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or regulations 

or their interpretations or enforcement may also be materially 

adverse to the Bancorp and its shareholders or may require the 

Bancorp to expend significant ti
me and resources to comply with 
such requirements. On July 21, 2010 the President of the United States signed 
into law the Dodd-Frank Act. 
The Dodd-Frank Act will have 
material implications for Fifth 
Third and the entire financial 
services industry. Among other things it will or potentially could: 
 Result in Fifth Third being subject to enhanced oversight 
and scrutiny as a result of being a bank holding company 
with $50 billion or more in consolidated assets;   
 Result in the appointment of the FDIC as receiver of Fifth 
Third in an orderly liquidation 
proceeding, if the Secretary 
of the U.S. Treasury, upon 
recommendation of two-thirds 
of the FRB and the FDIC and in consultation with the 

President of the United States, finds Fifth Third to be in 

default or danger of default;  Affect the levels of capital and liquidity with which Fifth 
Third must operate and how it plans capital and liquidity 
levels (including a phased-in elimination of Fifth Third™s 
existing trust preferred securities as Tier 1 capital); 
 Subject Fifth Third to new and/or higher fees paid to 
various regulatory entities, including but not limited to 
deposit insurance fees to the FDIC; 
 Impact Fifth Third™s ability to invest in certain types of 
entities or engage in certain activities;  Impact a number of Fifth Third™s business and risk 
management strategies;  Restrict the revenue that Fifth Third generates from 
certain businesses, including interchange fee revenue 
generated by Fifth Third™s credit card business; 
 Subject Fifth Third to a new Consumer Financial 
Protection Bureau, which will have very broad rule-making 
and enforcement authorities; and 
 Subject Fifth Third to oversight and regulation by a new 
and different litigation and regulatory regime
.  
As the Dodd-Frank Act requires that many studies be conducted 

and that hundreds of regulations be written in order to fully 

implement it, the full impact of this legislation on Fifth Third, its 

business strategies and financial 
performance cannot be known at 
this time, and may not be known for a number of years. However, 
these impacts are expected to be
 substantial and some of them are 
likely to adversely affect Fifth Third and its financial performance. 

The extent to which Fifth Third can adjust its strategies to offset 

such adverse impacts also is not known at this time. 

          Fifth Third and other financial institutions have been the 
subject of increased litigation which could result in legal 
liability and damage to its reputation.  
 Fifth Third and certain of its directors and officers have been 

named from time to time as defendants in various class actions 
and other litigation relating to Fifth Third™s business and activities.  
Past, present and future litigation have included or could include 

claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or 

claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. Fifth Third is also 

involved from time to time in other reviews, investigations and 

proceedings (both formal and info
rmal) by governmental and self-
regulatory agencies regarding its business. These matters also 

could result in adverse judgment
s, settlements, fines, penalties, 
injunctions or other relief. Like other large financial institutions 
and companies, Fifth Third is als
o subject to risk from potential 
employee misconduct, including non-compliance with policies and 

improper use or disclosure of confidential information. 

Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action against 

Fifth Third could materially adversely affect its business, financial 

condition or results of operations and/or cause significant 

reputational harm to its business. 
 Fifth Third™s ability to pay or increase dividends on its 
common stock or to repurchase its capital stock is restricted. 
Fifth Third™s ability to pay dividend
s or repurchase stock is subject to regulatory requirements and the need to meet regulatory 

expectations.MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  Fifth Third Bancorp    29 
STATEMENTS OF INCOME ANALYSIS 
Net Interest Income 
Net interest income is the interest earned on debt securities, loans 
and leases (including yield-relate
d fees) and other interest-earning assets less the interest paid for core deposits (includes transaction 

deposits and other time deposits) 
and wholesale funding (includes 
certificates $100,000 and over, other deposits, federal funds 

purchased, short-term borrowings and long-term debt). The net 

interest margin is calculated by dividing net interest income by 

average interest-earning assets. Net interest rate spread is the 
difference between the average rate earned on interest-earning 
assets and the average rate paid 
on interest-bearing liabilities. Net 
interest margin is typically greater than net interest rate spread due 

to the interest income earned on those assets that are funded by 

non-interest-bearing liabilities, or 
free-funding, such as demand 
deposits or shareholders™ equity. 
Table 5 presents the components of net interest income, net 
interest margin and net interest spread for 2010, 2009 and 2008. 
Nonaccrual loans and leases and loans held for sale have been 
included in the average loan
 and lease balances. Average 
outstanding securities balances are based on amortized cost with 

any unrealized gains or losses on available-for-sale securities 

included in other assets. Table 6 provides the relative impact of 

changes in the balance sheet and changes in interest rates on net 

interest income. Net interest income was $3.6 billion for the year ended 
December 31, 2010, compared to $3.4
 billion in 2009. Net interest 
income was affected by the amortization and accretion of 

premiums and discounts on acquired loans and deposits, primarily 

from the acquisition of First Charter that increased net interest 

income by $68 million during 2010, compared to an increase of 

$136 million during 2009. Excluding this impact, net interest 

income increased $317 million, or 10%, in 2010 compared to 

2009. The purchase accounting 
accretion reflects the high discount rate in the market at th
e time of the acquisition; the total 
loan discounts are being accreted into net interest income over the 

remaining period to maturity of the loans acquired. Based upon 

the remaining period to maturity
, and excluding the impact of 
prepayments, the Bancorp anticipa
tes recognizing approximately 
$41 million in additional net interest income during 2011 as a 

result of the amortization an
d accretion of premiums and 
discounts on acquired loans and deposits.  
For the year ended December 31, 2010, net interest income 
was positively impacted by a decrease of $5.6 billion in average 

interest-bearing liabilities as well 
as a mix shift to lower cost core 
deposits from 2009. This was primarily a result of runoff of higher 

priced term deposits as well as the benefit of lower rates offered 
on new term deposits. In addition, 2010 benefitted from a $3.2 
billion increase in the free funding position. This benefit was 

partially offset by a $2.6 billion decrease in average interest 

earning assets from 2009. The shift 
in funding position, as well as 
improved pricing on commercial loans, led to a 39 bp increase in 

the net interest rate spread to 3.39% in 2010 compared to 2009. 
Net interest margin was 3.66% in 2010, compared to 3.32% 
in 2009. For 2010 and 2009, the accretion of the discounts on 
acquired loans and deposits increase
d the net interest margin by 7 
bp and 14 bp, respectively. Exclud
ing the accretion of discounts 
on acquired loans and deposits, net interest margin was up 41 bp 

from 2009, driven by improved pricing on new commercial loan 

originations, the shift in funding 
composition to lower cost core 
deposits, an increase in free-fu
nding balances and a decrease in 
the average rates paid on interest bearing liabilities.  
Average interest-earning assets decreased three percent from 
2009. Average commercial loans decreased $3.9 billion due to 
decreases across all commercial loan categories, and average 

consumer loans decreased $239 million due primarily to decreases 

in average residential mortgage, home equity and other consumer 

loans and leases, partially offset
 by an increase in average 
automobile loans. In addition,
 average investment securities 
decreased $729 million, or four 
percent, compared to 2009. The 
declines in average loans and in
vestment securities were partially 
offset by a $2.3 billion increase in average other short-term 
investments, which includes intere
st bearing cash held at the 
Federal Reserve. For further discussion on the Bancorp™s loan and 

lease and investment securities por
tfolios, see the Loan and Lease 
and Investment Securities sections, respectively, of MD&A.  
Interest income from loans and leases decreased $112 million 
compared to 2009. Excluding th
e accretion of discounts on 
acquired loans in 2010 and 2009, in
terest income from loans and 
leases decreased $46 million, or one percent, compared to the 
prior year. The year-over-year decr
ease in interest income from 
loans and leases is a result of 
a five percent decline in average 
balances, partially offset by an 11 bp increase in the average yield. 

Interest income from investment securities decreased nine percent 

compared to 2009 due to a 68 bp decrease in the weighted-

average yield and a four percent decline in average balances. 
Average interest-bearing core deposits increased $4.0 billion, 
or eight percent, compared to 
2009, primarily due to increased 
interest checking, savings, money market and foreign office 

deposits, partially offset by a de
cline in other time deposits. The 
cost of interest-bearing core deposits was 0.83% in 2010; a 

decrease of 45 bp from 2009. The decrease is a result of a mix 
TABLE 4: CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
   
For the years ended December 31 ($ 
in millions, except per share data) 
2010
20092008 20072006
Interest income (FTE) 
$4,507
4,6875,630 6,0515,981
Interest expense 
885
1,3142,094 3,0183,082
Net interest income (FTE) 
3,622
3,3733,536 3,0332,899
Provision for loan and lease losses 
1,5383,5434,560 628343
Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan and lease losses (FTE) 
2,084
(170)(1,024) 2,4052,556
Noninterest income 2,729
4,7822,946 2,4672,012
Noninterest expense 3,855
3,8264,564 3,3112,915
Income (loss) before income taxes and cumulative effect (FTE) 
958
786(2,642) 1,5611,653
Fully taxable equivalent adjustment 
181922 2426
Applicable income tax expense (benefit) 
18730(551) 461443
Income (loss) before
 cumulative effect 
753
737(2,113) 1,0761,184
Cumulative effect of 
change in accounting principle, net of tax 
--- -4
Net income (loss)
 753
737(2,113) 1,0761,188
Less: Net income attributab
le to noncontrolling interest 
--- --
Net income (loss) attributable to Bancorp 
753
737(2,113) 1,0761,188
Dividends on preferred stock 
250
22667 1-
Net income (loss) available to common shareholders 
$503
511(2,180) 1,0751,188
Earnings per share 
$0.63
0.73(3.91) 1.992.13
Earnings per diluted share  
0.63
0.67(3.91) 1.982.12
Cash dividends declared per common share
 0.04
0.040.75 1.701.58
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  30    Fifth Third Bancorp     
shift to lower cost core deposits 
and a decrease in rates on average 
time deposits of 71 bp compared to 2009. 
Interest expense on wholesale funding decreased 35% 
compared to the prior year due to a 34% decrease in average 

balances and a 45 bp decrease in average rates. In 2010, wholesale 
funding represented 25% of intere
st-bearing liabilities, down from 
35% in 2009. Impacting this change was a decrease of $4.8 billion 

in average other short term borrowings due to the repayment of 

Term Auction Facility funds and FHLB advances which had an 

average balance of $3.7 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, in 
2009. In addition, average certificates of deposit over $100,000 
decreased $4.3 billion from 2009 due to maturities throughout 

2010. The decreased reliance on wholesale funding in 2010 was a 

result of the growth of core deposits and a decline in average 

interest earning assets. For more information on the Bancorp™s 
interest rate risk management, including estimated earnings 
sensitivity to changes in market interest rates, see the Market Risk 

Management section of MD&A. 
.   TABLE 5: CONSOLIDATED AVERAGE BALANCE SHEETS AND ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME   
For the years ended December 31 
   2010 
  2009    2008 
($ in millions) 
Average BalanceRevenue/
Cost Average Yield/RateAverage 
Balance
Revenue/ 
Cost Average 
Yield/Rate 
Average 
Balance 
Revenue/
Cost Average 
Yield/Rate
Assets   Interest-earning assets: 
  Loans and leases 
(a)
:   Commercial and industrial loans 
$26,334$1,2384.70 %
$27,556$1,1624.22 % $28,426 $1,5205.35 %
Commercial mortgage 
11,5854764.11 
12,5115454.35 12,776 8666.78 
Commercial construction 
3,066933.01 
4,6381342.90 5,846 3425.85 
Commercial leases 
3,3431474.40 
3,5431504.24 3,680 180.49 
Subtotal - commercial 
44,3281,954           4.41 
48,2481,991         4.13 50,728 2,746           5.41 
Residential mortgage 
9,8684784.84 
10,8866025.53 10,993 7056.41 
Home equity 
11,9964794.00 
12,5345204.15 12,269 7015.71 
Automobile loans 
10,4276085.83 
8,8075566.31 8,925 5666.34 
Credit card 
1,87020110.73 
1,90719310.10 1,708 1679.77 
Other consumer loans and leases 
74311615.58 
1,009868.49 1,212 645.28 
Subtotal - consumer 
34,9041,8825.39 
35,1431,9575.57 35,107 2,2036.27 
Total loans and leases 
79,2323,8364.84 
83,3913,9484.73 85,835 4,9495.77 
Securities: 
  Taxable 
16,0546504.05 
16,8617214.28 13,082 6434.91 
Exempt from income taxes 
(a)
 317133.92 
239177.19 342 257.35 
Other short-term investments 
3,32880.25 
1,03510.14 621 132.15 
Total interest-earning assets 
98,9314,5074.56 
101,5264,6874.62 99,880 5,6305.64 
Cash and due from banks 
2,245 
2,329 2,490  
Other assets 
14,841 
14,266 13,411  
Allowance for loan and lease losses 
(3,583) 
(3,265) (1,485)  
Total assets 
$112,434
$114,856 $114,296 
Liabilities and Equity 
  Interest-bearing liabilities:    
Interest-bearing core deposits: 
  Interest checking $18,218$520.29 %
$15,070$400.26 % $14,191 $1280.91 %
Savings  
19,6121070.55 
16,8751270.75 16,192 2241.38 
Money market 4,808190.40 
4,320260.60 6,127 1181.92 
Foreign office deposits 
3,355120.35 
2,108100.45 2,153 341.60 
Other time deposits 
10,5262762.62 
14,1034703.33 11,135 4113.69 
Total interest-bearing core deposits 
56,5194660.83 
52,4766731.28 49,798 9151.84 
Certificates - $100,000 and over 
6,0831252.06 
10,3672802.70 9,531 3243.40 
Other foreign office deposits 
6-0.13 
157-0.20 2,067 502.42 
Federal funds purchased 
29110.17 
51710.20 2,975 702.34 
Other short-term borrowings 
1,63530.21 
6,463420.64 7,785 1782.29 
Long-term debt 
10,9022902.65 
11,0353182.89 13,903 5574.01 
Total interest-bearing liabilities 
75,436 8851.17 
81,0151,3141.62 86,059 2,0942.43 
Demand deposits 
19,66916,862 14,017 
Other liabilities 
3,580
3,926 4,182 
Total liabilities 
98,685
101,803 104,258 
Equity 
13,74913,053 10,038 
Total liabilities and equity 
$112,434
$114,856 $114,296 
Net interest income 
$3,622
$3,373  $3,536
Net interest margin 
          3.66 %
           3.32 %       3.54 %
Net interest rate spread  
         3.39 
3.00  3.21 
Interest-bearing liabilities to interest-earning assets 
         76.25 
  79.80   86.16 
(a) The FTE adjustments included in the above table are 
$18
, $19 and $22 for the years ended 
December 31, 2010
, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
       Fifth Third Bancorp    31 
Provision for Loan and Lease Losses 
The Bancorp provides as an expense an amount for probable loan 
and lease losses within the loan an
d lease portfolio that is based 
on factors previously discussed in
 the Critical Accounting Policies 
section. The provision is record
ed to bring the ALLL to a level 
deemed appropriate by the Bancorp to cover losses inherent in 
the portfolio. Actual credit losses on loans and leases are charged 
against the ALLL. The amount of loans actually removed from 

the Consolidated Balance Sheets is referred to as charge-offs. Net 

charge-offs include current period
 charge-offs less recoveries on 
previously charged-off loans and leases. The provision for loan and lease losses decreased to $1.5 
billion in 2010 compared to $3.5 b
illion in 2009. The decrease in 
provision expense from the prior year was due to decreases in 
nonperforming assets and delinquencies in commercial and 

consumer loans. In addition to th
ese trends, signs of moderation 
in general economic conditions during 2010 further contributed to 
a decrease in expected loss rates. As of December 31, 2010, the 

ALLL as a percent of loans and le
ases decreased to 3.88%, from 
4.88% at December 31, 2009. Refer to the Credit Risk Management section for more 
detailed information on the provision for loan and lease losses 

including an analysis of the loan portfolio composition, non-

performing assets, net charge-offs, and other factors considered 

by the Bancorp in assessing the cred
it quality of the loan portfolio 
and the ALLL.    TABLE 6: CHANGES IN NET INTEREST INCOME ATTRIBUTED TO VOLUME AND YIELD/RATE 
(a)
 For the years ended December 31 
2010 Compared to 2009 
 2009 Compared to 2008 
 ($ in millions) 
VolumeYield/Rate
TotalVolumeYield/RateTotal
Assets Increase (decrease) in interest income:
 Loans and leases: 
Commercial and industrial loans 
($53)12976
($45)(313)(358)
Commercial mortgage 
(39)(30)(69)
(17)(304)(321)
Commercial construction 
(46)5(41)
(60)(148)(208)
Commercial leases 
(8)5(3)
(1)133132
Subtotal - commercial 
(146)109(37)
(123)(632)(755)
Residential mortgage 
(53)(71)(124)
(7)(96)(103)
Home equity 
(22)(19)(41)
15(196)(181)
Automobile loans 
97(45)52
(7)(3)(10)
Credit card  
(4)128
20626
Other consumer loans and leases 
(27)5730
(12)3422
Subtotal - consumer 
(9)(66)(75)
9(255)(246)
Total loans and leases 
(155)43(112)
(114)(887)(1,001)
Securities: 
Taxable 
(34)(37)(71)
169(91)78
Exempt from income taxes 
6(10)(4)
(7)(1)(8)
Other short-term investments 
527
5(17)(12)
Total interest-earning assets  
(178)(2)(180)
53(996)(943)
Cash and due from banks 
Other assets 
Allowance for loan and lease losses 
Total change in interest income  
($178)(2)(180)
$53(996)(943)
Liabilities and Equity 
Increase (decrease) in interest expense: 
Interest-bearing core deposits: 
Interest checking $8412
$8(96)(88)
Savings  
18(38)(20)
9(106)(97)
Money market 2(9)(7)
(28)(64)(92)
Foreign office deposits 
4(2)2
(1)(23)(24)
Other time deposits 
(105)(89)(194)
102(43)59
Total interest-bearing core deposits 
(73)(134)(207)
90(332)(242)
Certificates - $100,000 and over 
(98)(57)(155)
27(71)(44)
Other foreign office deposits 
---
(25)(25)(50)
Federal funds purchased 
---
(33)(36)(69)
Other short-term borrowings 
(21)(18)(39)
(26)(110)(136)
Long-term debt 
(3)(25)(28)
(101)(138)(239)
Total interest-bearing liabilities 
(195)(234)(429)
(68)(712)(780)
Demand deposits 
Other liabilities 
Total change in interest expense 
(195)(234)(429)
(68)(712)(780)
Equity 
Total liabilities and equity 
Total change in net interest income  
$17232249
$121(284)(163)
(a) Changes in interest not solely due to volume or yield/rate are allocated in proportion to the absolute amount of change in 
volume or yield/rate.
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  32    Fifth Third Bancorp     
    Noninterest Income 
Total noninterest income decreased $2.1 billion, or 43%, in 2010 
compared to 2009, due primarily to the Processing Business Sale 

in the second quarter of 2009 as well as decreases in service 

charges on deposits, corporate banking revenue and card and 

processing revenue, partially offset
 by strong growth in mortgage 
banking net revenue and investment advisory revenue. The 
components of noninterest income are shown in Table 7. 
Mortgage banking net revenue increased to $647 million in 
2010 from $553 million in 2009. The components of mortgage 

banking net revenue for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 

and 2008 are shown in Table 8.  TABLE 8: COMPONENTS OF
 MORTGAGE BANKING NET 
REVENUE 
For the years ended December 31  
($ in millions)
 2010 
20092008
Origination fees and gains on loan sales
 $490 
485260
Servicing revenue: 
 Servicing fees 
221 
197164
Servicing rights amortization 
(137) 
(146)(107)
Net valuation adjustments on servicing 
rights and free-standing derivatives 
entered into to economically hedge 

MSR 73 
17(118)
Net servicing revenue (expense) 
157 68(61)
Mortgage banking net revenue 
$647 
553199
 Origination fees and gains on lo
an sales increased $5 million 
compared to 2009 as higher margins on loans sold were largely 
offset by a decline in mortgage originations due to the homebuyer 
tax credit expiring in the second 
quarter of 2010, as well as tighter 
underwriting standards and declining home values. Mortgage 

originations were $20.3 billion 
in 2010 compared to $21.7 billion 
in 2009.  Mortgage net servicing revenue increased $89 million 
compared to 2009. Net servicing 
revenue is comprised of gross 
servicing fees and related servicing rights amortization as well as 
valuation adjustments on mortgage servicing rights and mark-to-
market adjustments on both settle
d and outstanding free-standing 
derivative financial instruments. The increase in net servicing 

revenue was driven by an increase of $24 million in servicing fees 

due to an increase in residential mortgage loans serviced and a $9 

million decrease in servicing rights amortization due to a decline 

in prepayments. The Bancorp™s to
tal residential mortgage loans 
serviced at December 31, 2010 and 2009 was $63.2 billion and 
$58.5 billion, respectively, with
 $54.2 billion and $48.6 billion, 
respectively, of residential mortgage loans serviced for others. 

Also impacting the increase in net servicing revenue were 

improvements in net valuation adjustments on MSRs and MSR 

derivatives as gains on the Bancorp™s free-standing MSR 

derivatives exceeded impairment losses recorded against the 

hedged MSRs. This was a result of a widening spread between 

swap rates and primary and secondary market mortgage rates as 
swap rates declined more than primary and secondary market 
mortgage rates over the year, as well as a positive carry in the net 
MSR hedge position. These factors led to a net gain of $73 million 

on the net valuation adjustments on MSRs, compared to a net 

gain of $17 million in 2009.  
Servicing rights are deemed temporarily impaired when a 
borrower™s loan rate is distinct
ly higher than prevailing rates. 
Temporary impairment on servicing rights is reversed when the 

prevailing rates return to a level commensurate with the 

borrower™s loan rate. Further information on the valuation of 

MSRs can be found in Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated 

Financial Statements. The Bancorp maintains a non-qualifying 

hedging strategy to manage a port
ion of the risk associated with 
changes in the valuation on the MSR portfolio. See Note 14 of the 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information 
on the free-standing derivatives used to hedge the MSR portfolio. 
The Bancorp recognized a gain from MSR derivatives of 
$109 million, offset by a temporary impairment of $36 million, 

resulting in a net gain of $73 million for the year ended December 

31, 2010. For the year ended December 31, 2009, the Bancorp 

recognized a gain from MSR derivatives of $41 million, offset by a 

temporary impairment of $24 million, resulting in a net gain of 
$17 million. In addition to the derivative positions used to 
economically hedge the MSR portfolio, the Bancorp acquires 

various securities as a compone
nt of its non-qualifying hedging 
strategy. A gain on these non-qualifying hedges on mortgage 

servicing rights of $14 million and $57 million in 2010 and 2009, 

respectively, was included in noninterest income within the 

Consolidated Statements of Income, but is shown separate from 

mortgage banking net revenue. 
Service charges on deposits de
creased $58 million, or nine 
percent, to $574 million in 2010 compared to 2009. Consumer 

deposit revenue decreased $56 million from 2009 as the impact of 

Regulation E and new overdraft policies resulted in a decrease in 

overdraft occurrences. Regulation E is a Federal Reserve Board 

rule that prohibits financial instit
utions from charging customers 
fees for paying overdrafts on ATMs and one-time debit card 

transactions unless a customer consents to the overdraft service 
for those types of transactions. 
Regulation E became effective on 
July 1, 2010 for new accounts and August 15, 2010 for existing 

accounts.  Commercial deposit revenue was flat compared to 2009 as a 
two percent increase in service fees for treasury management 

services was largely offset by an increase in earnings credits paid 

on customer balances. Commercial customers receive earnings 

credits to offset the fees charged for banking services on their 
deposit accounts, such as acco
unt maintenance, lockbox, ACH 
transactions, wire transfers and other ancillary corporate treasury 

management services. Earning credits are based on the customer™s 
average balance in qualifying depos
its multiplied by the crediting 
rate. Qualifying deposits include demand deposits and interest-

bearing checking accounts. The Ba
ncorp has a standard crediting 
rate that is adjusted as necessary based on competitive market 

conditions and changes in short-term interest rates.  
TABLE 7: NONINTEREST INCOME 
     For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions) 
201020092008 20072006
Mortgage banking net revenue 
$647553199 133155
Service charges on deposits 
574632641 579517
Corporate banking revenue 
364372431 367318
Investment advisory revenue 361326366 382367
Card and processing revenue 
316615912 826717
Gain on sale of processing business 
-1,758- --
Other noninterest income 
406479363 153299
Securities gains (losses), net 
47(10)(86) 21(364)
Securities gains, net Œ 
non-qualifying hedges on mortgage servicing rights
         14 
       57       120           6       3 
Total noninterest income 
$2,7294,7822,946 2,4672,012
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
       Fifth Third Bancorp    33 
Corporate banking revenue decreased $8 million, or two 
percent, in 2010, largely due to d
ecreases in international income 
and lease remarketing fees, partially offset by growth in 

syndication and business lending f
ees. Foreign exchange derivative 
income of $63 million decreased 17% driven by volume declines. 
Loan syndication fees were $28 million in 2010, compared to $8 

million in 2009.  Investment advisory revenue increased $35 million, or 11%, 
from 2009 as the result of improved market performance and 

sales production that drove an increase in brokerage activity and 

assets under care. Brokerage fee income, which includes Fifth 

Third Securities income, increase
d $23 million in 2010 as investors 
migrated balances to stock an
d bond funds due to improved 
market performance, which increased commission-based 

transactions. As of December 31, 2010, the Bancorp had $266 

billion in assets under care and managed $25 billion in assets for 

individuals, corporations and 
not-for-profit organizations. 
On June 30, 2009, the Bancorp completed the sale of a 
majority interest in its merchant acquiring and financial 

institutions processing businesses. The Processing Business Sale 
generated a pre-tax gain of $1.8 billion ($1.1 billion after-tax). As 
part of the transaction, the Bancorp retained certain debit and 

credit card interchange revenue and sold the financial institutions 

and merchant processing portions of the business, which 

historically comprised approximately 70% of total card and 

processing revenue. As a result of the sale, card and processing 

revenue decreased $299 million, or 49%, compared to 2009. Card 

issuer interchange, which was retained by the Bancorp, increased 
eight percent, to $284 million, compared to 2009 due to strong 
growth in debit and credit card transaction volumes. 
Other noninterest income decreased $73 million in 2010 
compared to 2009. The components
 of other noninterest income 
are shown in Table 9. The decrease was primarily due a $244 

million gain relating to the sale of the Bancorp™s Visa, Inc. Class B 

shares in 2009 and a $27 million decrease in revenue in 2010 

related to the TSA entered into as part of the Processing Business 
Sale, partially offset by an in
crease of $196 million in BOLI 
income. The year ended December
 31, 2010 includes a $152 
million litigation settlement related to one of the Bancorp™s BOLI 

policies while 2009 includes $53 m
illion in charges to record a 
reserve in connection with the intent to surrender one of the 

Bancorp™s BOLI policies as well as losses related to market value 

declines. Net securities gains totaled $47 
million in 2010 compared to 
$10 million of net securities losses during 2009.  Noninterest Expense  
Total noninterest expense remained relatively flat in 2010 
compared to 2009 as increases in
 salaries, wages and incentives 
and the expense for representation and warranties were largely 
offset by a decrease in the provision for unfunded commitments 

and letters of credit, lower FDIC insurance and other taxes and a 

decrease in card and processing expense. The components of 

noninterest expense are shown in Table 10. Noninterest expense 

in 2010 included $49 million of expenses related to the TSA and 

$25 million in legal fees associated with the settlement of claims 
with the insurance carrier on one of the Bancorp™s BOLI policies 
Noninterest expense in 2009 included $76 million of expense 

related to the TSA and a $55 million FDIC special assessment 

charge, partially offset by a $73 million reduction in the Visa 
litigation reserve.  
Total personnel costs (salaries, 
wages and incentives plus 
employee benefits) increased $94 million, or six percent in 2010 

compared to 2009 due primarily to increased base, variable and 

incentive compensation, partially offset by lower deferred 

compensation. Base and incentive compensation increased due 

primarily to investments in the sales force and expanded banking 

center hours during 2010. As of December 31, 2010, the Bancorp 
employed 21,613 employees, of which 6,742 were officers and 
2,519 were part-time employees. Full-time equivalent employees 

totaled 20,838 as of December 31, 
2010 compared to 20,998 as of 
December 31, 2009. The decrease in full-time equivalent 

employees is primarily due to the transfer of employees on 

January 1, 2010 from the Processing Business Sale, partially offset 

by an increase in the sales force in 2010. 
Card and processing expense includes third-party processing 
expenses, card management fees 
and other bankcard processing 
expenses. Card and processing expense decreased $85 million, or 

44%, in 2010 compared to 2009 due 
to the Processi
ng Business 
Sale in June of 2009.  
Total other noninterest expense increased $23 million in 
2010 compared to 2009. The components of other noninterest 

expense are shown in Table 11. The increase from 2009 was 

primarily due to increased charges to representation and warranty 
reserves related to residential mortgage loans sold to third-parties, 
as well as higher impairment on 
affordable housing investments, 
higher marketing expense due to
 increased consumer marketing 
campaigns and an increase in prof
essional services fees primarily 
due to legal expenses related to the settlement of one of the 

Bancorp™s BOLI policies. The increase in affordable housing 

investment impairment was due to 
an increase in the volume of 
investments. These impacts were partially offset by a decrease in 
the provision for unfunded commitments and letters of credit, 
lower FDIC insurance and other taxes and a decrease in intangible 

asset amortization due to certain customer deposit intangibles 
TABLE 9: COMPONENTS OF OTHER NONINTEREST 
INCOME For the years ended December 31  
($ in millions)
2010 
20092008
BOLI income (loss)  
194 (2)(156)
Operating lease income 
62 
5947
Gain (loss) on loan sales 
51 38(11)
TSA revenue 
49 
76-
Insurance income 38 
4736
Cardholder fees 
36 4858
Consumer loan and lease fees 
32 
4351
Banking center income 
22 
2231
Loss on sale of OREO 
(78) 
(70)(60)
Gain on sale/redemption of Visa, 
Inc. ownership interests 
- 244273
Litigation settlement 
- -76
Other, net 
- (26)18
Total other noninterest income 
$406 
$479363
   TABLE 10: NONINTEREST EXPENSE
    
For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
2010
20092008 2007 2006 
Salaries, wages and incentives 
$1,430
1,3391,337 1,239 1,174 
Employee benefits 314311278 278 292 
Net occupancy expense 
298
308300 269 245 
Technology and communications 
189181191 169 141 
Equipment expense 
122123130 123 116 
Card and processing expense 
108193274 244 184 
Goodwill impairment 
--965 - - 
Other noninterest expense
  1,3941,3711,089 989 763 
Total noninterest expense 
$3,855
3,8264,564 3,311 2,915 
Efficiency ratio 
60.7%
46.970.4 60.2 59.4 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  34   Fifth Third Bancorp 
from previous acquisitions being 
fully amortized. Additionally, the 
Bancorp recorded a $73 million reversal of the Visa litigation 

reserve in 2009. The expense for representation and warranties, 

which is included in losses and 
adjustments, totaled $110 million 
and $31 million in 2010 and 2009, re
spectively, with the increase 
resulting primarily from a higher volume of repurchase demands. 
The decrease in the provision for unfunded commitments was 

due to lower estimates of inherent
 losses resulting from a decrease 
in delinquent loans as general economic conditions began to show 

signs of moderation in 2010. 
The Bancorp incurred $242 million of expense for FDIC 
insurance and other taxes in 2010 compared to $269 million in 

2009. Effective June 30, 2009, the FDIC imposed a special 
assessment on each insured deposit
ory institution calculated as 5 
bp of total assets less Tier 1 capital which resulted in the Bancorp 

incurring a $55 million special assessment charge in the second 

quarter of 2009. Due to the pass
age of the Dodd-Frank Act, the 
FDIC was required to redefine the deposit insurance assessment 

base, make changes to assessment rate methodology and 

implement new DIF dividend provisions. The FDIC adopted the 

final rule on February 7, 2011, 
that revises the risk-based 
assessment system for all large insured depository institutions. The Bancorp anticipates a decline in FDIC insurance for the year 

ended December 31, 2011, compared to levels incurred for the 

year ended December 31, 2010. 
 The efficiency ratio (noninterest expense divided by the sum 
of net interest income and noninterest income) was 60.7% and 

46.9% for 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase from 2009 

was driven by the Processing Business Sale which resulted in a 

pre-tax gain of $1.8 billion in 2009. Excluding the gain from the 

Processing Business Sale, the efficiency ratio was 60.0% for 2009. 
The Bancorp continues to focus on efficiency initiatives, as part of 
its core emphasis on operating leverage and on expense control. 
 Applicable Income Taxes 
The Bancorp™s income (loss) befo
re income taxes, applicable 
income tax expense (benefit) and effective tax rate for each of the 

periods indicated are shown in Table 12. Applicable income tax 

expense for all periods includes the benefit from tax-exempt 
income, tax-advantaged investments and general business tax 
credits, partially offset by the effect of nondeductible expenses. 

The effective tax rate for the 
tax year ended December 31, 2010 
was primarily impacted by $133 million in tax credits, a $26 

million tax benefit resulting from the settlement of certain 

uncertain tax positions with the IRS and $25 million of non-cash 
charges relating to previously reco
gnized tax benefits associated 
with stock-based compensation that will not be realized. The 

effective tax rate for the tax year ended December 31, 2009 was 

primarily impacted by $112 milli
on in tax credits, a $106 million 
tax benefit related to the decision to surrender one of the 

Bancorp™s BOLI policies and the determination that losses on the 

policy recorded in prior periods are now tax deductible, and a $55 

million reduction in income tax expense related to the Bancorp™s 
leveraged lease litigation settlement with the IRS. See Note 21 of 
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further 

information on income taxes. 
    TABLE 11: COMPONENTS OF OTHER NONINTEREST 
EXPENSE 
For the years ended December 31  
($ in millions)
2010
20092008
FDIC insurance and other taxes 
$242
26973
Loan and lease 
211234188
Losses and adjustments 
18711095
Affordable housing investments 
impairment 
1008367
Marketing 
9879102
Professional services fees 
7763102
Travel 
514154
Postal and courier 
485354
Intangible asset amortization 
435756
Insurance expense 
425030
Operating lease 
413932
OREO 
332411
Recruitment and education 
313033
Supplies 
242531
Data processing 
242114
Visa litigation reserve  
-(73)(99)
Provision for unfunded commitments and 
letters of credit 
(24)9998
Other 166167148
Total other noninterest expense 
$1,394
1,3711,089
TABLE 12: APPLICABLE INCOME TAXES 
    
For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
 2010
 2009 2008 20072006
Income (loss) before income 
taxes and cumulative effect 
$940
767(2,664) 1,5371,627
Applicable income tax expense (benefit)  
18730(551) 461443
Effective tax rate 
19.8%3.920.7 30.0 27.2 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 Fifth Third Bancorp    35 
BUSINESS SEGMENT REVIEW
At December 31, 2010, the Bancorp reports on four business 
segments: Commercial Banking, Branch Banking, Consumer 
Lending and Investment Advisors. Additional detailed financial 

information on each business segment is included in Note 31 of 

the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Results of the 

Bancorp™s business segments are presented based on its 

management structure and management accounting practices. The 

structure and accounting practices
 are specific to the Bancorp; 
therefore, the financial results of the Bancorp™s business segments 
are not necessarily comparable with similar information for other 
financial institutions. The Bancorp refines its methodologies from 

time to time as management accounting practices are improved 

and businesses change.  
On June 30, 2009, the Bancorp completed the Processing 
Business Sale, which represented the sale of a majority interest in 

the Bancorp™s merchant acquirin
g and financial institutions 
processing businesses. Financial 
data for the merchant acquiring 
and financial institutions proce
ssing businesses was originally 
reported in the former Processing Solutions segment through 

June 30, 2009. As a result of the sale, the Bancorp no longer 

presents Processing Solutions as a segment and therefore, 

historical financial information for the merchant acquiring and 

financial institutions processing 
businesses has been reclassified 
under General Corporate and Other for all periods presented. 

Interchange revenue previously recorded in the Processing 
Solutions segment and associated with cards currently included in 
Branch Banking is now included 
in the Branch Banking segment 
for all periods presented. Additionally, the Bancorp retained its 

retail credit card and commercial multi-card service businesses, 

which were also originally reported in the former Processing 

Solutions segment through June 30, 2009, and are now included in 

the Consumer Lending and Commercial Banking segments, 

respectively, for all periods presented. Revenue from the 
remaining ownership interest in the Processing Business is 
recorded in General Corporate and Other as noninterest income. 
The Bancorp manages interest rate risk centrally at the 
corporate level by employing a FTP methodology. This 

methodology insulates the business segments from interest rate 

volatility, enabling them to focus on serving customers through 

loan originations and deposit taking. The FTP system assigns 

charge rates and credit rates to 
classes of assets and liabilities, 
respectively, based on expected
 duration and the LIBOR swap 
curve. Matching duration allocates interest income and interest 
expense to each segment so its resulting net interest income is 

insulated from interest rate risk. 
In a rising rate environment, the 
Bancorp benefits from the widening spread between deposit costs 

and wholesale funding costs. However, the Bancorp™s FTP system 

credits this benefit to deposit-providing businesses, such as 

Branch Banking and Investment Advisors, on a duration-adjusted 

basis. The net impact of the FTP methodology is captured in 
General Corporate and Other. 
The business segments are charged provision expense based 
on the actual net charge-offs experienced by the loans owned by 

each segment. Provision expense a
ttributable to loan growth and 
changes in factors in the ALLL 
are captured in General Corporate 
and Other. The financial results of the business segments include 

allocations for shared services 
and headquarters expenses. Even 
with these allocations, the financial results are not necessarily 
indicative of the business segments™ financial condition and results 
of operations as if they existed as independent entities. 

Additionally, the business segments
 form synergies by taking 
advantage of cross-sell opportunities and when funding 

operations, by accessing the capital markets as a collective unit. 

Net income (loss) by business segment is summarized in the 

following table.      
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   TABLE 13: BUSINESS SEGMENT NET INCOME (LOSS) 

AVAILABLE TO COMMON SHAREHOLDERS 
For the years ended December 31       
($ in millions)
2010
2009 2008 
Income Statement Data 
  Commercial Banking 
$165
(120) (733) 
Branch Banking 
201324 632 
Consumer Lending 
(40)23 (148) 
Investment Advisors 
2953 98 
General Corporate and Other 
398
457 (1,962) 
Net income (loss) 
 753
 737  (2,113) 
Less: Net income attributable to 
noncontrolling interest -- - Net income (loss) attributable to Bancorp 
753
737 (2,113) 
Dividends on preferred stock 
250
226 67 
Net income (loss) available to common 
shareholders 
$503
511 (2,180) 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  36    Fifth Third Bancorp     
Commercial Banking
 Commercial Banking offers banking, cash management and 
financial services to large and middle-market businesses and 

government and professional customers. In addition to the 

traditional lending and depository offerings, Commercial Banking 
products and services include global cash management, foreign 
exchange and international trade finance, derivatives and capital 

markets services, asset-based lendin
g, real estate finance, public 
finance, commercial leasing and synd
icated finance. The following 
table contains selected financial data for the Commercial Banking 

segment.    Comparison of 2010 with 2009
 Commercial Banking realized net income of $165 million in 2010 
compared to a net loss of $120 
million in 2009. This improvement 
was primarily due to an increase in net interest income and a 

decrease in provision for loan and lease losses partially offset by 

growth in salaries, incentives an
d benefits. Net interest income 
increased $162 million, or 12%, prim
arily due to a mix shift from 
higher cost term deposits to lower cost deposit products which 

resulted in a decrease to intere
st expense of 34% during 2010. 
This improvement was partially offset by the negative impact to 
net interest income of a decrease in average commercial loans 
during 2010 and a decrease of $35 million in the accretion of 

discounts on loans associated with the acquisition of First Charter 

in 2008.   
Provision for loan and lease losses decreased $201 million, or 
15%, from 2009. Net charge-offs as a percent of average loans 

and leases decreased from 329 bp in 2009 to 302 bp in 2010. 

These decreases are primarily due to actions taken by the Bancorp 
to address problem loans which resulted in significant net charge-
offs recorded in 2008 and 2009, as well as the impact of loss 

mitigation activities such as
 suspending home builder and 
developer lending and non-owner occupied commercial real estate 

lending in 2007 and 2008, respectively, and tighter underwriting 

standards across commercial loan product offerings. 
Noninterest income increased $
26 million, or four percent, 
from 2009 primarily as a result of
 $24 million increase in gains on 
private equity investments, included in other noninterest income, 
and a $5 million increase in card and processing revenue due to an 
increase in commercial credit card activity, partially offset by a $7 
million decrease in corporate banking revenue. Corporate banking 

revenue decreased from the prior year primarily as a result of a $6 

million decrease in fees on letters of credit. 
Noninterest expense was flat compared to 2009 due to an 
increase in salaries, incentives and 
benefits offset by a decrease in 
other noninterest expense. Salaries, incentives and benefits 

increased $33 million, or 15%, due to compensation related to 

improved performance in the segment and an increase in 

headcount during 2010. Loan an
d lease expense decreased $32 
million, or four percent, as a resu
lt of lower loan demand during 
2010, a decrease in collection related expenses and a decrease in 

FDIC expenses due to a special assessment in the second quarter 
of 2009.   Average commercial loans and leases decreased $3.0 billion, 
or seven percent, compared to the prior year due to decreases 

across all commercial loan categories. Commercial construction 

loans decreased $1.5 billion, commercial and industrial loans 

decreased $655 million, commercial mortgage loans decreased 

$631 million and commercial leases 
decreased $209 million. These 
decreases were the result of lower customer demand for new 
originations, lower utilization rates on corporate lines and tighter 
underwriting standards applied to both new commercial loan 

originations and renewals. These impacts were partially offset by 

the consolidation of $724 million of commercial and industrial 

loans on January 1, 2010, which ha
d a remaining balance of $372 
million at December 31, 2010.   
Average core deposits increased $5.8 billion, or 32%, 
compared to 2009 due to the migration of higher priced 
certificates of deposit into tran
saction accounts, as well as the 
impact of historically low inte
rest rates and excess customer 
liquidity.  
 Comparison of 2009 with 2008
  Commercial Banking reported a net loss of $120 million in 2009 

compared to a net loss of $733 
million in 2008. This improvement 
was due to a $750 million goodwill impairment charge taken in 

2008 and a $504 million decrease in the provision for loan and 

lease losses in 2009, partially offset by a decrease in net interest 

income of $184 million. The decrease in net interest income 
compared to 2008 was primarily due to a decrease in the accretion 
of loan discounts on acquired loans and deposits which 

contributed $204 million to net interest income in 2008 compared 

to $60 million in 2009. Averag
e commercial loans and leases 
decreased $1.9 billion, or four 
percent, due to lower utilization 
rates on corporate lines, net charge-offs and tighter lending 

standards implemented in the second half of 2008 and continued 

throughout 2009.  
Provision expense decreased from $1.9 billion in 2008 to $1.4 
billion in 2009. Net charge-offs as 
a percent of average loans and 
leases decreased to 329 bp from 432 bp in 2008 due primarily to 

$800 million in net charge-offs in
 2008 resulting from the sale or 
transfer to held-for-sale of $1.3 billion in commercial and 

industrial loans and commercial mo
rtgage loans in the fourth 
quarter of 2008. 
Noninterest income decreased $69 million compared to 2008 
due to a decrease in corporate banking revenue of $48 million and 
a $31 million decline in other noninterest income, partially offset 

by a $10 million increase in 
service charges on deposits. Noninterest expense decreased $679 million compared to 
2008 primarily due to goodwill impairment of $750 million in 

2008. Excluding the goodwill im
pairment charge, noninterest expense increased $71 million due to increases in FDIC and loan 

and leases expenses.     TABLE 14: COMMERCIAL BANKING   
For the years ended December 31 
($ in millions)
 2010 
2009 2008 
Income Statement Data  
  Net interest income (FTE) 
(a) 
$1,545 
1,383 1,567 
Provision for loan and lease 
losses 
1,159 1,360 1,864 
Noninterest income:    Corporate banking revenue 
346 
353 401 
Service charges on deposits 
199 196 186 
Other noninterest income 
90 
60 91 
Noninterest expense:    Salaries, incentives and 
benefits 
254 
221 243 
Goodwill impairment 
- - 750 
Other noninterest expense 
736 
768 675 
Income (loss) before taxes 
31 (357) (1,287) 
Applicable income tax benefit 
 (134) 
(237) (554) 
Net income (loss) 
$165 
(120) (733) 
Average Balance Sheet Data  
  Commercial loans 
$38,304 
41,341 43,198 
Demand deposits 10,872 8,581 6,206 
Interest checking 
8,432 
6,018 4,632 
Savings and money market 
2,823 
2,457 4,046 
Certificates $100,000 and over and 
other time 
3,014 
4,376 2,293 
Foreign office deposits 
2,017 
1,275 1,835 
(a) Includes FTE adjustments of 
$14 for 2010, $13 for 2009 and $1
5 for 2008
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
       Fifth Third Bancorp    37 
Branch Banking
  Branch Banking provides a full range of deposit and loan and 

lease products to individuals and small businesses through 1,312 

full-service banking centers. Bran
ch Banking offers depository 
and loan products, such as chec
king and savings accounts, home 
equity loans and lines of credit, credit cards and loans for 

automobiles and other personal financing needs, as well as 
products designed to meet the specific needs of small businesses, 

including cash management services
. The following table contains 
selected financial data for the Branch Banking segment.  Comparison of 2010 with 2009 
Net income decreased $123 million, or 38%, compared to 2009 

driven by an increase in noninterest expense and a decrease in net 

interest income partially offset by a decrease in provision for loan 

and lease losses. Net interest income decreased $58 million, or 

four percent, compared to 2009 
as the impact of lower loan 
balances more than offset a fa
vorable shift in the segment™s 
deposit mix towards lower cost transaction deposits.    
Provision for loan and lease loss
es decreased $43 million, or 
seven percent, from 2009. Net charge-offs as a percent of average 

loans and leases decreased from 317 bp in 2009 to 305 bp in 2010 

as a result of a 36 bp decrease in consumer net charge-offs as a 

percent of average consumer loans partially offset by a 52 bp 

increase in commercial net charge
-offs as a percent of average 
commercial loans. The decrease in consumer net charge-offs was 

primarily the result of a decrease in delinquencies, tighter 
underwriting standards and signs of improvement in economic 
conditions during 2010. The increase in commercial net charge-

offs was primarily due to $24 million of charge-offs taken on $60 

million of commercial loans which were sold or moved to held for 

sale during the third quarter of 2010. 
Noninterest income decreased $5 million, or one percent, 
from 2009 as decreases in service charges on deposits and other 

noninterest income were partially offs
et by increases in card and 
processing revenue and investment advisory revenue. Service 
charges on deposits decreased $59 million, or 14%, compared to 

2009 as a result of new regulations in 2010 that decreased income 

on overdrafts. Card and processing revenue increased $39 million, 

or 15%, from 2009 primarily due to 
an increase in debit and credit 
card transactions that resulted in a 13% increase in both credit and 
debit card interchange revenue. Investment advisory revenue 
increased $22 million, or 26%, co
mpared to 2009 primarily due to 
an increase in retail brokerage transactions. Other noninterest 

income decreased $7 million, or six percent, primarily due to the 
CARD Act of 2009, which resulted in the reduction of certain 
credit card fees.      
Noninterest expense increased $169 million, or 12%, from 
2009 due to increases in each category. Salaries, incentives and 

benefits increased $50 million, or 10%, from the prior year due 

primarily to additional branch personnel related to expanded 

branch hours of operation and greater incentive accruals 

attributable to success in opening new deposit and brokerage 
accounts. Net occupancy and equipment expense increased $6 
million, or three percent, as a resu
lt of increases to rent expenses 
during 2010. Card and processing
 expense increased $34 million, 
or 50%, from 2009 due to increased costs associated with an 

increase in credit and debit card
 transaction volumes during 2010. 
Other noninterest expense increased $79 million, or 14%, due to 

increases in loan and lease expense, marketing expense and other 

allocated shared service expenses.     
 Average consumer loans decreased $152 million, or one 
percent, and average commercial lo
ans decreased $520 million, or 
10%. The decrease in average consumer loans was the result of a 

$311 million decrease in home equity loans due to a decrease in 

demand and tighter underwriting standards that limited allowable 

loan to value ratios, partially offs
et by a $254 million increase in 
residential mortgage loans due to management™s decision to retain 

certain residential mortgage loans in portfolio upon origination. 
The decrease in average commercial loans was due to lower 
customer demand for new originations, lower utilization rates on 

corporate lines and tighter underwriting standards applied to both 

new commercial loan originations and renewals.   
Average core deposits were flat compared to 2009 as runoff 
of higher priced consumer certificates of deposit, included in 

other time deposits, was replaced with growth in transaction 

accounts due to excess customer li
quidity and low interest rates. 
 Comparison of 2009 with 2008
 Net income decreased $308 million, or 49%, in 2009 compared to 

2008 driven by decreases in net interest income and service fees 

combined with a higher provisi
on for loan and lease losses. Net 
interest income decreased nine pe
rcent compared to 2008 due to a 
$27 million decline in the accretion of discounts on acquired loans 

and deposits combined with an incr
ease in interest expense due to 
higher average balances in other time deposits.  
Net charge-offs as a percent of average loan and leases 
increased to 317 bp in 2009, from 194 bp in 2008. Net charge-offs 

increased compared to 2008 as 
the segment experienced higher 
charge-offs on home equity lines 
and loans, commercial loans and 
credit cards reflecting borrower stress and a decrease in home 

values primarily within the Bancorp™s footprint. 
Noninterest income was relatively flat compared to 2008 as 
decreases in deposit fees and retail service fees, included in other 
noninterest income, were offset by an increase in card and 

processing revenue. 
Noninterest expense increased $80 million, or six percent, 
compared to 2008 primarily due to 
an increase in FDIC related 
expenses of $86 million as a resu
lt of a special assessment charged 
in 2009 coupled with an increase in assessment rates. 
Average loans and leases increased one percent compared to 
2008 as a three percent growth in consumer loans was partially 
offset by a five percent decrease 
in commercial loans. In addition, 
credit card balances grew $211 
million, or 14%. Average core 
deposits were up eight percent co
mpared to 2008 primarily due to 
growth in short term consumer certificates. 
 
   
TABLE 15: BRANCH BANKING  
For the years ended December 31  
($ in millions)
 2010 
2009 2008 
Net interest income  
 $1,501 
1,559 1,714 
Provision for loan and lease 
losses 
542 
585 352 
Noninterest income:    Service charges on deposits 
369 
428 447 
Card and processing revenue 
303 
264 246 
Investment advisory revenue 
106 84 84 
Other noninterest income 
115 122 130 
Noninterest expense:    Salaries, incentives and 

benefits 
552 
502 517 
Net occupancy and equipment  
expense 223 
217 203 
Card and processing expense 
102 68 45 
Other noninterest expense 
664 
585 528 
Income before taxes
 311 500 976 
Applicable income tax expense  
110 176 344 
Net income 
$201 
324 632 
Average Balance Sheet Data  
  Consumer loans 
$12,944 
13,096 12,665 
Commercial loans 
4,815 
5,335 5,600 
Demand deposits 6,936 
6,363 6,008 
Interest checking 
7,332 
7,395 7,845 
Savings and money market 
19,963 17,010 16,184 
Other time 
12,712 
16,995 13,749 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  38    Fifth Third Bancorp     
Consumer Lending 
Consumer Lending includes the Bancorp™s mortgage, home 
equity, automobile and other indirect lending activities. Mortgage 

and home equity lending activities include the origination, 

retention and servicing of mortgage and home equity loans or 
lines of credit, sales and securitiza
tions of those loans or pools of 
loans or lines of credit and all associated hedging activities. Other 

indirect lending activities incl
ude loans to consumers through 
mortgage brokers and automobile dealers. The following table 

contains selected financial da
ta for the Consumer Lending 
segment.  Comparison of 2010 with 2009
 Consumer Lending reported a net loss of $40 million in 2010 

compared to net income of $23 million in 2009 due to a decrease 

in net interest income and an increase in noninterest expense 

partially offset by an increase in noninterest income. Net interest 

income decreased $76 million, or 15%, from 2009 primarily due to 

a decrease in yields on average interest earning assets, which 

includes the impact of a $21 million decrease in the accretion of 

discounts on loans associated with the acquisition of First Charter 
in 2008, partially offset by a decrease
 in funding costs during 2010.    
Provision for loan and lease lo
sses increased $8 million, or 
one percent, from 2009. Net charge
-offs as a percent of average 
loans and leases decreased from 313 bp in 2009 to 309 bp in 2010. 

The increase in provision for loan and lease losses from the prior 

year was the result of a 23% increase in net charge-offs on 

residential mortgage loans primarily due to $123 million in charge-

offs taken on $228 million of portfolio loans which were sold 
during the third quarter of 2010. 
Automobile loan net charge-offs 
decreased $44 million compared to 2009 as a result of tighter 

underwriting standards implemented in 2008, maturation of the 

automobile portfolio and higher re
sale values on automobiles sold 
at auction. Home equity net charge-offs decreased $24 million 

from 2009 due to run off of brokered home equity loans, the 

origination of which were discontinued in 2007. Noninterest income increased $35 million, or six percent, as 
the result of an increase in mo
rtgage banking net revenue partially 
offset by a decrease in other noninterest income. Mortgage 

banking net revenue increased $93 million, or 18%, from 2009 

primarily due to an $89 million increase in net servicing revenue. 

The increase in net servicing revenue was driven by a $56 million 

increase in net valuation adjustments on MSRs and MSR 

derivatives and a $24 million increase in servicing fees. Residential 

mortgage loans serviced for others at December 31, 2010 and 
2009 were $54.2 billion and $48.6 
billion, respectively. Other 
noninterest income decreased $58 million, or 57%, primarily due 
to decreases in securities gains re
lated to mortgage servicing rights 
hedging activities and an increase in bankcard rewards program 

costs recognized within fee income.   
Noninterest expense increased $48 million, or nine percent, 
due to increases in salaries, in
centives and benefits and other 
noninterest expense. Salaries, in
centives and benefits increased 
$13 million, or seven percent, from 2009 due to the continued 

high levels of mortgage loan originations in 2010. Other 

noninterest expense increased $35 million, or 11%, from 2009 

primarily as a result of a $48 million increase in the representation 

and warranty reserve partially offset by a $13 million decrease in 

loan and lease expense. Average consumer loans were flat compared to 2009 as a 
$1.7 billion increase in automobile loans was offset by decreases in 

all other consumer loan and lease products. Average residential 

mortgage loans decreased $1.3 billion from 2009 due to a decrease 

in origination activity during the first half of 2010. Average home 

equity loans decreased $144 million from 2009 due to the 

previously mentioned run off of brokered home equity loans. The 

increase in automobile loans was 
due to a change in U.S. GAAP 
that required the Bancorp to cons
olidate certain automobile loans 
on January 1, 2010 and a strategic focus to increase automobile 

lending during 2010 through consis
tent and competitive pricing, 
enhanced customer service wi
th our dealership network and 
disciplined sales execution. The 
automobile loans consolidated 
due to the change in U.S. GAAP
 had an average balance of $920 
million during 2010. Average consumer leases decreased $245 

million due to run off of consumer leases which were 
discontinued in the fourth quarter of 2008. 
 
Comparison of 2009 with 2008
 Consumer Lending reported net income of $23 million in 2009 

compared to a net loss of $148 million in 2008 primarily due to a 

goodwill impairment charge of $215 million taken in 2008. In 

addition, increases in net intere
st income and mortgage banking 
net revenue in 2009 more than offset the growth in provision for 
loan and lease losses.  
Net interest income increased $13 million in 2009 primarily 
due to a decrease in funding costs driven by low interest rates 

throughout 2009 partially offset by
 a decrease of $17 million on 
the accretion of discounts on loan
s and deposits associated with 
the acquisition of First Charter in 2008. Mortgage banking net revenue increased $342 million due to 
an increase in residential mortgage
 originations from $11.2 billion 
in 2008 to $20.7 billion in 2009 du
e to lower interest rates and 
government incentive programs offered to home buyers as well as 

higher sales margins on sold 
loans. The decrease in other 
noninterest income to $101 million in 2009 is attributable to 

decreases in securities gains related to mortgage servicing rights 

hedging activities.   
The increase in salaries, incenti
ves and benefits compared to 
2008 was driven by employee costs that were necessary to manage 
the increase in residential mortgage originations. The $56 million 
increase in other noninterest expense compared to 2008 is 

attributed to a $20 million increase in loan processing costs as a 

result of increased mortgage originations and $36 million in other 

credit related expenses and an increase in FDIC insurance 

expenses. 
Average residential mortgage loans and average automobile 
loans remained relatively flat compared to 2008. Net charge-offs 
as a percent of average loan an
d leases increased from 223 bp in 
2008 to 313 bp in 2009.   TABLE 16: CONSUMER LENDING  
For the years ended December 31  
($ in millions) 
2010 
2009 2008 
Income Statement Data  
  Net interest income  
$418 
494 481 
Provision for loan and lease losses 
582 
574 441 
Noninterest income:    Mortgage banking net revenue 
619 
526 184 
Other noninterest income  
43 
101 167 
Noninterest expense:    Salaries, incentives and benefits 
200 
187 137 
Goodwill impairment 
- - 215 
Other noninterest expense 
359 
324 268 
Income (loss) before taxes 
(61) 36 (229) 
Applicable income tax expense 
(benefit) 
 (21) 13 (81) 
Net income (loss) 
($40) $23 (148) 
Average Balance Sheet Data  
  Residential mortgage loans 
$9,384 
10,650 10,698 
Home equity 
851 
995 1,142 
Automobile loans 
9,713 
8,024 7,984 
Consumer leases
  384 
629 797 
    MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
       Fifth Third Bancorp    39 
Investment Advisors 
Investment Advisors provides a full range of investment 
alternatives for individuals, companies and not-for-profit 

organizations. Investment Advisors is made up of four main 
businesses: FTS, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the 
Bancorp; FTAM, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of the 

Bancorp; Fifth Third Private Bank
; and Fifth Third Institutional 
Services. FTS offers full service retail brokerage services to 

individual clients and broker dealer services to the institutional 

marketplace. Fifth Third Asset Ma
nagement, Inc. provides asset 
management services and also advises the Bancorp™s proprietary 

family of mutual funds. Fifth Third Private Banking offers holistic 
strategies to affluent clients in wealth planning, investing, 
insurance and wealth protection. Fi
fth Third Institutional Services 
provide advisory services for institutional clients including states 

and municipalities. The following 
table contains selected financial 
data for the Investment Advisors segment. 
 Comparison of 2010 with 2009 

Net income decreased $24 million, or 45%, compared to 2009 as a 

decrease in net interest income and an increase in noninterest 
expense were partially offset by a decrease in provision for loan 
and lease losses and an increase 
in investment advisory revenue. 
Net interest income decreased $19 million, or 12%, from 2009 

due to a decrease in average loans 
and leases partially offset by an 
increase in the yield on interest earning assets.   
Provision for loan and lease loss
es decreased $13 million, or 
23%, from 2009. Net charge-offs as a percent of average loans 

and leases decreased from 183 bp in 2009 to 171 bp in 2010 
reflecting moderation of general economic conditions during 
2010. Noninterest income increased $20 million, or six percent, 
compared to 2009 due to an incr
ease in investment advisory 
revenue partially offset by a decrease in other noninterest income. 

Investment advisory revenue increased $31 million, or 10%, 
compared to 2009 due to increases in securities and broker 
income, private client service income and institutional income. 

Securities and broker income incr
eased $18 million, or 17%, from 
2009 due to continued expansion of the sales force and effective 
sales management, resulting in strong net asset and account 

growth. Private client service income increased $11 million, or 

eight percent, and institutional 
income increased $5 million, or 
seven percent, from 2009 due to increases in the market value of 

managed assets and an increase in transaction activity. Assets 

under care increased from $182 billion at December 31, 2009 to 

$266 billion at December 31, 2010 and managed assets increased 
from $24 billion at December 31, 2009 to $25 billion at December 
31, 2010. Noninterest expense increased $51 million, or 14%, 
compared to 2009 due to an increa
se in salaries, incentives and 
benefits and other noninterest expense. Salaries, incentives and 

benefits increased $16 million, 
or 11%, primarily due to the 
expansion of the sales force and compensation related to 

improved performance in investment advisory revenue related 
fees. Other noninterest expense increased $35 million, or 16%, 
primarily due to an increase in
 expenses associated with the 
revenue sharing agreement between Investment Advisors and 

Branch Banking.     
Average loans and leases decreased $538 million, or 17%, 
from 2009 primarily due to a $418 million decrease in commercial 

loans as a result of a decrease 
in demand and decrease in line 
utilization rates among the Bancorp™s high net worth customers 
due to excess liquidity. Average core deposits increased $958 
million, or 19%, compared to 2009 primarily due to growth in 

interest checking and foreign deposits as customers have opted to 

maintain excess funds in liquid 
transaction accounts as rates 
remained near historic lows. 
 
Comparison of 2009 with 2008
 Net income decreased $45 million in 2009, or 46%, compared to 
2008 as decreases in net interest income and investment advisory 
revenue were only partially offset by lower salaries and benefit 

expenses. 
Noninterest income decreased $50 million in 2009 compared 
to 2008, as investment advisory 
revenue decreased $39 million, 
with private client services income declining $14 million and 

institutional income declining $13 million, driven by lower asset 

values on assets managed compared to 2008. Also included within 
investment advisory revenue is s
ecurities and brokerage income, 
which declined $10 million, or ni
ne percent, compared to 2008, 
reflecting a decline in transaction-based revenue as well as the 

continued shift in assets from e
quity products to lower yielding 
money market funds due to mark
et volatility through much of 
2009. 
     
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 TABLE 17: INVESTMENT ADVISORS 
For the years ended December 31  
($ in millions) 
2010 
20092008
Income Statement Data  
Net interest income  
$138 
157191
Provision for loan and lease losses 
44 
5749
Noninterest income:  Investment advisory revenue 
346 
315354
Other noninterest income  
10 2132
Noninterest expense:  Salaries, incentives and benefits 
156 140159
Other noninterest expense 
249 
214217
Income before taxes 
45 
82152
Applicable income tax expense
 16 2954
Net income 
$29 
$5398
Average Balance Sheet Data  
Loans and leases 
$2,574 
3,1123,527
Core deposits 
       5,897 
     4,939    4,666
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  40    Fifth Third Bancorp     
General Corporate and Other 
General Corporate and Other includ
es the unallocated portion of 
the investment securities portfolio
, securities gains and losses, 
certain non-core deposit funding, unassigned equity, provision 

expense in excess of net charge-offs or income from the reduction 
of ALLL, the payment of preferred stock dividends, historical 
financial information for the merchant acquiring and financial 

institutions processing business
es and certain support activities 
and other items not attributed to the business segments. 

 
Comparison of 2010 with 2009 

The results for 2010 were impacted by $789 million in income due 

to a reduction in the ALLL during 2010 compared to $967 million 
of provision expense recorded in excess of net charge-offs during 
2009. The decrease in provision ex
pense was due to a decrease in 
nonperforming assets and improvement in credit trends as general 

economic conditions began to show signs of moderation. The 

2010 results were also impacted by $152 million of noninterest 

income recognized from the settlement of litigation associated 

with one of the Bancorp™s BOLI policies and $25 million of 

noninterest expense from related legal fees associated with the 
settlement. The results for 2009 were primarily impacted by a $1.8 
billion pre-tax gain ($1.1 billion after tax) resulting from the 

Processing Business Sale in the second quarter of 2009. Results 

for 2009 also included a $244 million gain on the sale of the 

Bancorp™s Visa Inc., Class B shares and a $73 million benefit from 

the reversal of the Visa litigation reserve, an $18 million benefit in 

noninterest income due to mark
-to-market adjustments on 
warrants and put options related to the Processing Business Sale 
and a $106 million tax benefit as a result of the Bancorp™s decision 
to surrender one of its BOLI policies. These benefits were 

partially offset by a $54 million BOLI charge reflecting reserves 

recorded in the connection with the intent to surrender the policy. 

Additionally, the Bancorp recorded dividends on preferred stock 
of $226 million during 2009 compared to $250 million during 
2010. 
 
Comparison of 2009 with 2008 

The results for 2009 were primarily impacted by the previously 

mentioned Processing Business Sale, gain on the sale of the 

Bancorp™s Visa Inc., Class B shares and benefit from the reversal 

of the Visa litigation reserve, 
mark-to-market adjustments on 
warrants and put options related to the Processing Business Sale, 
and the tax benefit as a result of the Bancorp™s decision to 

surrender one of its BOLI policies, partially offset by charges 

reflecting reserves recorded in the connection with the intent to 

surrender the policy. The results for 2008 were impacted by $273 

million in income related to the redemption of a portion of Fifth 

Third™s ownership interest in Visa, $99 million in net reductions to 

noninterest expense to reflect the reversal of a portion of the 
litigation reserve related to the Bancorp™s indemnification of Visa, 
$229 million after-tax impact of charges relating to certain 

leveraged leases, and $215 million in charges related to reduction 

in the cash surrender value of one of the Bancorp™s BOLI policies. 

Provision expense in excess of net charge-offs decreased from 

$1.9 billion in 2008 to $967 million in 2009. Dividends on 

preferred stock increased from $67 million in 2008 to $226 million 

in 2009.  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
      Fifth Third Bancorp    41 
 FOURTH QUARTER REVIEW The Bancorp™s 2010 fourth quarter net income available to 
common shareholders was $270 million, or $0.33 per diluted 

share, compared to net income available to common shareholders 

of $175 million, or $0.22 per dilute
d share, for the third quarter of 
2010 and a net loss available to common shareholders of $160 
million, or $0.20 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter of 2009. 

Fourth quarter 2010 earnings included the impact of a $17 million 

charge related to the early extinguishment of $1.0 billion in FHLB 

borrowings as well as $21 million in net investment securities 

gains. Third quarter 2010 results included a $127 million benefit, 

net of expenses, from the settlement of litigation associated with 

one of the Bancorp™s BOLI policies. Fourth quarter 2009 earnings 
were impacted by the benefit of a $20 million pre-tax, mark-to-
market adjustment on warrants relat
ed to the Processing Business 
Sale, offset by a $22 million pre-tax litigation reserve for litigation 

associated with a bank card association membership. Provision 

expense was $166 million in the fourth quarter of 2010, down 

from $457 million in the third quarter of 2010 and $776 million in 

the fourth quarter of 2009. Both the sequential decrease and the 

decline from the fourth quarter of 2009 reflect improved credit 
trends, as evidenced by a decrease in net charge-offs and 
improvements in nonperforming assets and delinquent loans. The 

allowance to loan and lease ratio was 3.88% as of December 31, 

2010, compared to 4.20% as of 
September 30, 2010 and 4.88% as 
of December 31, 2009.  
Fourth quarter 2010 net interest income of $919 million 
increased $3 million from the third quarter of 2010 and increased 

$37 million from the same period a year ago. Net interest income 
was affected by the loan and depos
it discount accretion related to 
the acquisition of First Charter in the second quarter of 2008, 

which resulted in increases to net interest income of $15 million in 

the fourth quarter 2010, $14 milli
on in the third quarter 2010 and 
$23 million in the fourth quarter of 2009. Excluding these 

benefits, net interest income in
creased $2 million from the third 
quarter of 2010 and increased $45 
million from the fourth quarter 
of 2009. The increase from the fourth quarter of 2009 was driven 
by a 20 bp increase in the net interest margin, largely the result of 
a mix shift from higher cost term deposits to lower cost deposit 

products throughout 2010.  Noninterest income decreased $171 million compared to the 
third quarter of 2010 and increase
d $5 million compared to the 
fourth quarter of 2009. The seque
ntial decline was driven by a 
$152 million benefit from the settlement of litigation related to 

one of the Bancorp™s BOLI policies in the third quarter of 2010, 
as well as a 36% decrease in mortgage banking net revenue, 
partially offset by an increase 
in corporate banking revenue. 
Compared to the fourth quarter 
of 2009, increases in corporate 
banking revenue, mortgage banking net revenue, investment 

advisory revenue and card and processing revenue were largely 

offset by a decrease in service charges on deposits and a $28 

million decline in TSA revenue relat
ed to the Processing Business 
Sale. The fourth quarter of 2010 included a benefit of $3 million 
in mark-to-market adjustments
 on warrants and put options 
related to the Processing Business Sale, compared to a negative $5 

million adjustment in the third quarter of 2010 and a $20 million 

benefit in the fourth quarter of 2009.  Mortgage banking net revenue was $149 million in the fourth 
quarter of 2010, compared to $232 million in the third quarter of 

2010 and $132 million in the four
th quarter of 2009. Fourth 
quarter originations were $7.4 billion, compared to $5.6 billion in 
the previous quarter and $4.8 billion in the same quarter last year. 
These originations resulted in gain
s on mortgage loan sales activity 
of $158 million in the fourth qu
arter of 2010, compared to $173 
million in the third quarter of 2
010 and $97 million in the fourth 
quarter of 2009. Gain on sale margins declined compared to 

record levels in the third quarte
r of 2010 due to rising mortgage 
interest rates in the fourth quarter of 2010 but increased 
compared to the fourth quarter 
of 2009 due to declining mortgage 
interest rates in the fourth quarter of 2010 compared with the 

fourth quarter of 2009. Also impacting mortgage banking net 
revenue was net valuation adjustments on MSRs and MSR 
derivatives. In the fourth quart
er of 2010, losses on the Bancorp™s 
free-standing MSR derivatives exceeded impairment reversal 

recorded against the hedged MSRs. By comparison, in both the 

third quarter of 2010 and the four
th quarter of 2009, gains on the 
MSR derivatives exceeded impairment losses recognized against 

the hedged MSRs. These factors led to a net loss of $20 million on 

the net valuation adjustments on MS
Rs in the fourth quarter of 
2010, compared to net gains of $46 million and $9 million in the 
third quarter of 2010 and the fourth
 quarter of 2009, respectively. 
A net gain on non-qualifying hedges on mortgage servicing rights 

of $14 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 was included in 

noninterest income within the Consolidated Statements of 

Income, but shown separate from 
mortgage banking net revenue. 
Net gains on non-qualifying hedges on mortgage servicing rights 

were immaterial in both the third quarter of 2010 and the fourth 
quarter of 2009. 
Service charges on deposits of $140 million decreased three 
percent sequentially and decreased 12% compared to the fourth 

quarter of 2009. Retail service charges declined nine percent from 

the third quarter of 2010 and 26% fr
om a year ago, largely driven 
by the impact of Regulation E. Commercial service charges 

increased three percent sequentially and two percent from the 
same quarter last year due to an 
increase in fees for treasury 
management services. 
Corporate banking revenue of $103 million increased $17 
million, or 21%, from the prev
ious quarter and increased $14 
million, or 16%, from the fourth quarter of 2009. The sequential 

increase was driven primarily by higher loan syndication fee 

revenue and lease remarketing fees, as well as growth in business 

lending fees and foreign exchange revenue due primarily to higher 

loan volumes. Compared to the fo
urth quarter of 2009, increased 
loan syndication and lease remarketing fees, as well as revenue 
from interest rate derivative sales and business lending fees, more 

than offset a decline in institutional sales.  
Investment advisory revenue of $93 million increased four 
percent sequentially and eight percent from the fourth quarter of 

2009. The sequential growth was driven by higher private client 

service revenue, institutional trust revenue and brokerage fees due 

to market value increases and improved sales production resulting 
in improved net asset and account growth. Including the 
previously mentioned impacts, the increase from the fourth 

quarter of 2009 also reflected an overall increase in equity and 

bond market values. Card and processing revenue of $81 million increased five 
percent compared to the third 
quarter of 2010 and increased 
seven percent from the fourth 
quarter of 2009. Both increases 
were driven by higher transaction volumes. 
The net gain on investment securities was $21 million in the 
fourth quarter of 2010 compared to 
a net gain of $4 million in the 
third quarter of 2010 and a net gain
 of $2 million in the fourth 
quarter of 2009.  Noninterest expense of $987 million increased $8 million 
sequentially and increased $20 million from the fourth quarter of 

2009. Fourth quarter 2010 results included $17 million of 

expenses related to the early termination of $1.0 billion in FHLB 
borrowings as well as $11 million of expenses related to the TSA. 
Third quarter 2010 results included $25 million in legal expenses 

associated with the settlement of litigation associated with one of 

the Bancorp™s BOLI policies and $13 million of expenses related 

to the TSA, while fourth quarter 2009 included a $22 million 

reserve established for litigation associated with bank card 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  42    Fifth Third Bancorp     
memberships and $39 million of ex
penses related to the TSA. 
Excluding these items, noninteres
t expense increased $16 million 
sequentially and $25 million from the fourth quarter of 2009 

driven by higher compensation expense due to sales force 

expansion, partially offset by lower credit-related expenses. 
Expenses incurred related to pr
oblem assets totaled $53 million in 
the fourth quarter of 2010, compar
ed to $67 million in the third 
quarter of 2010 and $73 million in the fourth quarter of 2009.  
Net charge-offs totaled $356 million in the fourth quarter of 
2010, compared to $956 million in
 the third quarter of 2010 and 
$708 million in the fourth quarter of 2009. Third quarter 2010 net 

charge-offs included $510 million related to the sale or transfer of 

loans to held-for-sale. Excludin
g these losses, net charge-offs 
declined $90 million from the thir
d quarter of 2010. The decreases 
in net charge-offs from both periods reflects continued 

improvement in the credit quality 
of portfolio loans. Commercial 
net charge-offs were $173 million 
in the fourth quarter of 2010, 
compared to $627 million in the third quarter of 2010 and $468 

million in the fourth quarter 
of 2009. Third quarter 2010 net 
charge-offs include $387 million 
from the transfer of commercial 
loans to held-for-sale. Exclud
ing these losses, commercial net 
charge-offs declined $67 million 
from the third quarter of 2010. 
Consumer net charge-offs were $183 million in the fourth quarter 

of 2010, compared to $329 million in the third quarter of 2010 

and $240 million in the fourth quar
ter of 2009. Third quarter 2010 
net charge-offs include $123 milli
on in net charge-offs on the sale 
of portfolio residential mortgage loans during the quarter. 

Excluding these losses, consumer net charge-offs decreased $23 

million from the third quarter of 2010. The provision for loan and 
lease losses totaled $166 million in the fourth quarter of 2010 
compared to $457 million in the third quarter of 2010 and $776 

million in the fourth quarter of 2009. The decrease from each 

quarter was primarily due to a d
ecline in delinquent loans and net 
charge-offs.   COMPARISON OF THE YEAR ENDED 2009 WITH 2008 

Net income available to common sh
areholders for the year ended 
2009 was $511 million, or $0.67 per diluted share, compared to a 

net loss available to common shareholders of $2.2 billion, or $3.91 

per diluted share, in 2008. Overall,
 a $1.8 billion pre-tax gain on 
the Processing Business Sale and $244 million of noninterest 

income on the sale of the Bancorp™s Visa, Inc. Class B shares as 
well as an increase in mortgage banking net revenue and a 
decrease in the provision for loan and lease losses of $1.0 billion 

compared to 2008, were partially offset by decreases in net interest 

income and card and processing revenue. In addition, the Bancorp 

recorded a $965 million goodwill impairment charge in 2008. 

While the Bancorp continued to be affected by rising 

unemployment rates, weakened housing markets, particularly in 

the upper Midwest and Florida, and a challenging credit 
environment, credit trends began 
to show signs of stabilization in 
late 2009, which led to the decrea
se in provision expense. The 
2008 goodwill impairment charge reflected a decline in estimated 

fair values of two of the Bancorp™s business reporting units below 

their carrying values and the dete
rmination that the implied fair 
values of the reporting units were less than their carrying values. 
Net interest income decreased five percent compared to 
2008. This was primarily due to a 
21 bp decline in the net interest 
rate spread, as well as a decrease 
in the benefit from the accretion 
of purchase accounting adjustments related to the 2008 

acquisition of First Charter, which added $136 million to net 
interest income in 2009 compared
 to $358 million in 2008. Net 
interest margin decreased to 3.
32% in 2009 from 3.54% in 2008.  
Noninterest income increased 62% compared to 2008. This 
was driven primarily by the Processing Business Sale in the second 

quarter of 2009, which resulted in a pre-tax gain of $1.8 billion, as 

well as a $244 million gain related 
to the sale of the Bancorp™s 
Visa, Inc. Class B shares. Mortga
ge banking net revenue increased 
$354 million as a result of strong growth in originations, which 
were up 89% to $21.7 billion 
in 2009. Card and processing 
revenue decreased 33% compared to 2008 due to the Processing 

Business Sale in the second quarter of 2009. Corporate banking 

revenue decreased 10% largely due to a lower volume of interest 

rate derivatives sales and foreign exchange revenue, partially offset 

by growth in institutional sales and business lending fees. 
Noninterest expense decreased $738 million, or 16% 
compared to 2008. Noninterest expense in 2008 included the 
previously mentioned goodwill impairment charge of $965 
million. Excluding this charge, n
oninterest expense increased $227 
million due primarily to an increase of $196 million of FDIC 

insurance and other taxes as the re
sult of an increase in deposit 
insurance and participation in the 
TLGP, as well as increased loan 
related expenses from higher mortgage origination volume and 

expenses incurred from the management of problem assets.  
In 2009, net charge-offs as a 
percent of average loans and 
leases remained relatively steady
 at 320 bp, compared to 323 bp in 
2008. This was impacted by a decrease of $446 million in 

commercial loan net charge-offs du
e primarily to net charge-offs 
of $800 million on $1.3 billion on loans moved to held-for-sale or 

sold in the fourth quarter of 
2008. These actions were taken to 
address areas of the loan portfolio exhibiting the most significant 

credit deterioration. In addition, residential mortgage net charge-

offs increased to $357 million 
in 2009, compared to $243 million 
in 2008, reflecting increased forecl
osure rates in the Bancorp™s key 
lending markets. At December 31, 2009, nonperforming assets as 

a percent of loans and leases in
creased to 4.22% from 2.38% at 
December 31, 2008. The Bancorp in
creased its allowance for loan 
and lease losses as percent of loan
s and leases from 3.31% as of 
December 31, 2008 to 4.88% as of December 31, 2009.  
The Bancorp took a number of actions to strengthen its 
capital position in 2009. On June 4, 2009, the Bancorp completed 
an at-the-market offering resulting 
in the sale of $1 billion of its 
common shares at an average share 
price of $6.33. In addition, on 
June 17, 2009, the Bancorp completed its offer to exchange shares 

of its common stock and cash for shares of its Series G 

convertible preferred stock. As a result, the Bancorp recognized 

an increase in net income available to common shareholders of 

$35 million based upon the difference in carrying value of the 

Series G preferred shares and the fair value of the common shares 
and cash issued. See the Capita
l Management section of MD&A 
for further information on the Bancorp™s capital transactions. 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
   Fifth Third Bancorp    43 
 BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS 
Loans and Leases 
The Bancorp classifies its loans and leases based upon the primary 
purpose of the loan. Table 18 summarizes end of period loans and 

leases, including loans held for sale, and Table 19 summarizes 

average total loans and leases, in
cluding loans held for sale.   
At December 31, 2010, total loans 
and leases, including loans held for sale, increased $861 million,
 or one percent, compared to 
December 31, 2009. The increase consisted of a $2.1 billion 

increase in consumer loans partially offset by a $1.3 billion 
decrease in commercial loans. In a
ccordance with a change in U.S. 
GAAP, on January 1, 2010 the Bancorp consolidated certain 

commercial and industrial, automob
ile and home equity loans with 
remaining outstanding balances 
of $372 million, $648 million and 
$241 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010. Excluding the 

impact of this change in U.S. 
GAAP, total loans and leases were 
relatively flat compared to December 31, 2009. For further 

discussion on this change in U.S. GAAP, refer to Note 1 of the 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
Total commercial loans and leases decreased $1.3 billion, or 
three percent, compared to De
cember 31, 2009 primarily as the 
result of decreases in commercial construction loans and 

commercial mortgage loans, partially
 offset by an increase in 
commercial and industrial loans.
 Commercial construction loans 
decreased $1.8 billion, or 45%, from December 31, 2009 primarily 

due to management™s strategy to suspend new lending on 
commercial non-owner occupied real estate beginning in 2008 and 
the outflow of completed construction projects that were 

transitioned to commercial mortgage
 loans. Despite the transition 
of commercial construction loans, commercial mortgage loans 

decreased $944 million, or eight percent, from December 31, 2009 

due to tighter underwriting st
andards on commercial real estate loans in an overall effort to limit exposure to commercial real 

estate. Commercial and industrial lo
ans increased $1.6 billion, or 
six percent, compared to December
 31, 2009 as a result of the 
previously mentioned change in U.S. GAAP and an increase in 

new loan originations activity, pr
imarily due to an increase in 
customer demand with continued growth in the manufacturing 

and healthcare industries. This increase was partially offset by an 

$856 million decrease in loans originally issued to FTPS in 

conjunction with the Processing 
Business Sale; FTPS refinanced 
the original $1.25 billion in loans 
into a larger syndicated loan 
structure in connection with an acquisition.  
Total consumer loans and leases 
increased $2.1 billion, or six 
percent, from December 31, 2009. Th
is increase was primarily the 
result of increases in automob
ile loans and residential mortgage 
loans, partially offset by a d
ecrease in home equity loans. 
Automobile loans increased $2.0 billion, or 22%, compared to 

December 31, 2009 primarily as a 
result of the previously 
mentioned impact on automobile loans due to the change in U.S. 
GAAP and a strategic focus to increase automobile lending during 

2010 through consistent and competitive pricing, enhanced 

customer service with our dealership network and disciplined sales 

execution. Residential mortgage loans increased $1.0 billion, or 

10%, from December 31, 2009 as a result of a 51% increase in 

origination activity for the fourth quarter of 2010 compared to the 

fourth quarter of 2009 and management™s decision in the third 
quarter of 2010 to retain certain mortgage loans primarily 
originated through the Bancorp™
s retail branches. Home equity 
loans decreased $660 million, or five percent, from December 31, 

2009 as tighter underwriting standa
rds and a decrease in customer 
demand were partially offset by the previously mentioned impact 

on home equity loans due to the change in U.S. GAAP. Credit 

card loans decreased $94 million, or five percent, as a result of a 

decrease in new account origination activity throughout 2010. 
Other consumer loans and leases, primarily made up of student 
loans designated as held for sale
 and automobile leases, decreased 
$110 million, or 14%, due to a dec
line in new originations driven 
by tighter underwriting standards.   
Average commercial loans and leases decreased $3.9 billion, 
or eight percent, compared to
 2009. The decrease in average 
commercial loans consisted of a decrease of $1.6 billion, or 34%, 

in average commercial construction 
loans, $1.2 billion, or four 
percent, in average commercial 
and industrial loans and $926 
million, or seven percent, in average commercial mortgage loans. 

These decreases were driven by
 lower customer line utilization 
rates, lower demand for new loans and tighter underwriting 

standards on commercial real estate loans to manage risk, partially 

offset by the impact of the prev
iously discussed change in U.S. 
GAAP. Commercial and industrial loans experienced an increase 

in origination activity primarily during the fourth quarter of 2010 
which led to a higher period end balance at December 31, 2010 
compared to December 31, 2009 
Average consumer loans and leases were relatively flat 
compared to 2009. An increase in
 average automobile loans of 
$1.6 billion, or 18%, was offset by decreases in average residential 

mortgage loans of $1.0 billion, or
 nine percent, and average home 
equity loans of $538 million, or 
four percent. The impact of the 
previously mentioned consolidation of automobile and home 
equity loans was largely offset by
 a decrease in customer demand 
and tighter underwriting standards. Residential mortgage 

originations in 2009 were higher 
than in 2010 resulting in a lower 
annual average; however volume of
 new originations during the 
fourth quarter of 2010 were greater than the fourth quarter of 

2009 resulting in a higher period end balance at December 31, 

2010 compared to December 31, 2009. 
TABLE 18: COMPONENTS OF TOTAL LOANS AND LEASES (INCLUDES HELD FOR SALE)   
As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
2010
20092008 20072006
Commercial:
  Commercial and industrial loans 
$27,275
25,68729,220 26,07920,831
Commercial mortgage 
10,99211,93612,731 11,96710,405
Commercial construction 
2,1113,8715,335 5,5616,168
Commercial leases 
3,378
3,5353,666 3,7373,841
       Subtotal Œ commercial 
43,756
45,02950,952 47,34441,245
Consumer: 
 Residential mortgage loans 
10,8579,84610,292 11,4339,905
Home equity 
11,51312,17412,752 11,87412,154
Automobile loans 
10,9838,9958,594 11,18310,028
Credit card 
1,8961,9901,811 1,5911,004
Other consumer loans and leases 
702
8121,194 1,1571,167
       Subtotal Œ consumer 
35,951
33,81734,643 37,23834,258
Total loans and leases 
$79,707
78,84685,595 84,58275,503
Total loans and leases (excludes held for sale) 
$77,491
76,77984,143 80,25374,353
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  Fifth Third Bancorp 
44 
     Investment Securities 
The Bancorp uses investment securities as a means of managing 
interest rate risk, providing liquidity support and providing 

collateral for pledging purposes. As of December 31, 2010, total 

investment securities were $16.1 
billion compared to $18.9 billion 
at December 31, 2009. See Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated 

Financial Statements for the Bancorp™s methodology for both 

classifying investment securities 
and management™s evaluation of 
securities in an unrealized loss position for OTTI.  At December 31, 2010, the Bancorp™s investment portfolio 
primarily consisted of AAA-rated agency mortgage-backed 

securities. In 2010, the Bancorp recognized $3 million of OTTI 

on its investment securities portfolio. During the year ended 

December 31, 2009, OTTI was immaterial to the Consolidated 

Financial Statements. In 2008, the Bancorp recognized OTTI 

charges of $67 million on FHLMC and FNMA preferred stock 
and $37 million on certain trust 
preferred securities. Upon a 
change in U.S. GAAP in 2009, 
the Bancorp concluded that the 
OTTI charges on these trust preferred securities were due to non-

credit related factors and therefore, recognized an increase of $37 

million to the investment balance and related unrealized losses.  
The Bancorp did not hold asset-ba
cked securities backed by 
subprime mortgage loans in its investment portfolio as of, or for 

the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. Additionally, there 
was approximately $137 million of securities classified as below 
investment grade as of December 31, 2010, compared to $178 

million as of December 31, 2009. 
As of December 31, 2010, availabl
e-for-sale securities on an 
amortized cost basis decreased $3.0 billion from December 31, 

2009. The decrease included the impact of a change in U.S. 

GAAP that required the Bancorp to consolidate certain VIEs, 

resulting in the elimination of $805 million in commercial paper 
and $236 million of residual interests classified as available-for-sale 
securities on January 1, 2010. Fu
rther impacting the available-for-
sale securities were approximately $1.1 billion in sales and 

paydowns on agency mortgage-backe
d securities, primarily related 
to the FNMA and FHLMC delinquent
 loan buy-back programs in 
the second quarter of 2010, and management™s decision not to 

fully reinvest cash flows in securities due to the low market rate 

environment. In addition, sales of $579 million of FNMA and 

FHLMC agency debentures, $151 million of commercial 
mortgage-backed securities and commercial mortgage obligations 
and $103 million of trust preferred securities as well as $150 

million in paydowns on other asset-backed securities further drove 
the decline from December 31, 2009. 
At December 31, 2010, available-for
-sale securities decreased 
to 15% of interest-earning assets, compared to 18% at December 

31, 2009. This was due to a 17% d
ecrease in the available-for-sale 
portfolio as discussed above, partially offset by the impact of a 
four percent decline in averag
e interest earning assets. The 
estimated weighted-average life of the debt securities in the 

available-for-sale portfolio was 
4.4 years at December 31, 2010 
and 2009. At December 31, 2010, th
e fixed-rate securities within 
the available-for-sale securities por
tfolio had a weighted-average 
yield of 4.24% compared to 4.48% at December 31, 2009. 
 Information presented in Table 21 is on a weighted-average 
life basis, anticipating future 
prepayments. Yield information is 
presented on an FTE basis and is computed using historical cost 
balances. Maturity and yield calculat
ions for the total available-for-
sale portfolio exclude equity securities that have no stated yield or 

maturity. Market rates declined from 2009, which led to net 

unrealized gains on agency mortgage-backed securities of $403 

million, compared to $323 million as of December 31, 2009. Total 

net unrealized gains on the available-for-sale securities portfolio 

were $495 million at December 31, 2010, compared to $334 
million at December 31, 2009. TABLE 19: COMPONENTS OF AVERAGE TOTAL LOANS AND LEASES (INCLUDES HELD FOR SALE) 
As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
2010
20092008 20072006
Commercial:
  Commercial and industrial loans 
$26,334
27,55628,426 22,35120,504
Commercial mortgage 
11,58512,51112,776 11,0789,797
Commercial construction 
3,066
4,6385,846 5,6616,015
Commercial leases 
3,343
3,5433,680 3,6833,730
       Subtotal Œ commercial 
44,328
48,24850,728 42,77340,046
Consumer: 
 Residential mortgage loans 
9,868
10,88610,993 10,4899,574
Home equity 
11,99612,53412,269 11,88712,070
Automobile loans 
10,4278,8078,925 10,7049,570
Credit card 
1,8701,9071,708 1,276838
Other consumer loans and leases 
743
1,0091,212 1,2191,395
       Subtotal Œ consumer 
34,904
35,14335,107 35,57533,447
Total average loans and leases  
$79,232
83,39185,835 78,34873,493
Total average portfolio loans and leases (excludes held for sale) 
$77,045
80,68183,895 76,03372,447
TABLE 20: COMPONENTS OF INVESTMENT SECURITIES
   
As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
2010
20092008 20072006
Available-for-sale and other: (amortized cost basis) 
 U.S. Treasury and Go
vernment agencies $225
$464186 31,396
U.S. Government sponsored agencies 
1,5642,1431,651 160100
Obligations of states and political subdivisions 
170240323 490603
Agency mortgage-backed securities 
10,57011,0748,529 8,7387,999
Other bonds, notes and debentures 
1,3382,541613 385172
    Other securities 
1,0521,4171,248 1,045966
Total available-for-sale and other  
$14,919
17,87912,550 10,82111,236
Held-to-maturity (amortized cost basis): 
 Obligations of states and political subdivisions 
$348
350355 351345
Other bonds, notes and debentures 
555 411
Total held-to-maturity 
$353
355360 355356
Trading (fair value): 
 Variable rate demand notes 
$106
2351,140 --
Other securities 
18812051 171187
Total trading  
$294
3551,191 171187
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
         Fifth Third Bancorp    45 
  Trading securities decreased from $355 million at December 
31, 2009 to $294 million at December 31, 2010. The decrease was 

driven by the sale of VRDNs which were held by the Bancorp in 

its trading securities portfolio. These securities were purchased 

from the market during 2008 and 2009 through FTS who was also 

the remarketing agent. During th
e fourth quarter of 2009 and into 
2010, the rates on these securities began to decline substantially, 

and as a result the Bancorp sold a majority of its VRDNs and 
replaced them with higher-yielding agency mortgage-backed 
securities classified as available-for-sale. The Bancorp continued 
to sell the VRDNs throughout 2010, resulting in the decrease 

from December 31, 2009. For more information on the VRDNs, 

see Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Included in trading securities as of December 31, 2010 were $6 

million of auction rate securities, which had an unrealized loss of 

$1 million. The Bancorp held $13 m
illion of auction rate securities 
in its trading portfolio at December 31, 2009, which had an 
unrealized loss of $4 million.    
   
TABLE 21: CHARACTERISTICS OF AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE AND OTHER SECURITIES 
As of December 31, 2010 ($ in millions) Amortized Cost Fair Value 
Weighted-Average Life (in 
years) 
Weighted- Average Yield 
U.S. Treasury and Government agencies:     
Average life of one year or less $25                $25 0.3 0.91% 
Average life 1 Œ 5 years 100 101 1.4 1.20 
Average life 5 Œ 10 years 100 104 8.9 3.57 

Average life greater than 10 years -       - - - 
Total 225 230 4.6 2.22 
U.S. Government sponsored agencies:     
Average life of one year or less 80 81 0.2 3.35 
Average life 1 Œ 5 years 51 51 1.7 1.54 

Average life 5 Œ 10 years 1,433 1,513 5.9 3.75 

Average life greater than 10 years - - - - 
Total 1,564 1,645 5.5 3.66 
Obligations of states and political subdivisions 
(a)
:     
Average life of one year or less 126 126 0.1 4.20 

Average life 1 Œ 5 years 4 5 2.8 8.21 

Average life 5 Œ 10 years 8 9 9.4 6.27 
Average life greater than 10 years 32 32 11.0           5.98 
Total 170 172 2.7 4.73 
Agency mortgage-backed securities:     
Average life of one year or less 264 270 0.7 4.85 
Average life 1 Œ 5 years 8,579 8,956 3.8 4.40 
Average life 5 Œ 10 years 1,668 1,689 6.8 4.30 

Average life greater than 10 years 59 58 10.3 4.09 
Total 10,570 10,973 4.2 4.40 
Other bonds, notes and debentures 
(b)
:     
Average life of one year or less 131 131 0.5 1.11 
Average life 1 Œ 5 years 801 812 2.6 4.37 

Average life 5 Œ 10 years 337 330 6.0 3.60 

Average life greater than 10 years 69 69 23.0 7.21 
Total 1,338 1,342 4.3 4.00 
Other securities 
(c) 1,052 1,052   
Total available-for-sale and other s
ecurities $14,919 $15,414 4.4 4.24% 
(a) Taxable-equivalent yield adjustments included in the above
 table are 1.45%, 2.83%, 2.16%, 2.06% and 1.63% 
for securities with an average life of on
e year or less, 1-5 years, 5-10 years, 
greater than 10 years and in total, respectively. 
(b) Other bonds, notes, and debentures consist of non-agency mort
gage backed securities, certain other asset backed securities (pri
marily automobile and commercial loan backed securities) and 
corporate bond securities.  
(c) Other securities consist of FHLB and FRB restricted stock holdings
 that are carried at par, FHLMC and FNMA preferred stock, cer
tain mutual fund holdings and equity security 
holdin
gs. MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  46    Fifth Third Bancorp     
Deposits 
Deposit balances represent an im
portant source of funding and 
revenue growth opportunity. The Bancorp continues to focus on 
core deposit growth in its re
tail and commercial franchises by 
improving customer satisfaction, 
building complete relationships 
and offering competitive rates. At December 31, 2010, core 

deposits represented 70% of the Bancorp™s asset funding base 

compared to 68% at December 31, 2009. 
Core deposits increased $765 million, or one percent, 
compared to 2009 due primarily to increases of $3.0 billion in 

savings and $2.0 billion in demand deposits which was primarily 
the result of excess customer liqui
dity. In addition, foreign office 
deposits increased $1.3 billion due to an increase in commercial 

customer deposits due to excess 
customer liquidity, and those 
customers opting to sweep additi
onal funds into these accounts 
for the higher interest rates. Th
ese increases were partially offset 
by the continued run-off of higher
 priced certificates included in 
other time deposits, which declined $4.7 billion, or 38%, 

compared to December 31, 2009, as
 well as a decline in interest 
checking due primarily to rate management actions on single 
product public funds accounts in the second half of 2010.  
Included in core deposits are foreign office deposits, which 
are Eurodollar sweep accounts for the Bancorp™s commercial 
customers. These accounts bear interest at rates slightly higher 

than money market accounts, but the Bancorp does not have to 

pay FDIC insurance nor pledge collateral. The Bancorp uses these 

deposits, as well as certificates of deposit $100,000 and over, as a 

method to fund earning asset growth. Certificates $100,000 and 

over at December 31, 2010 decreased $3.4 billion compared to 

December 31, 2009 as customers opted to maintain their balances 
in liquid accounts due to historically low interest rates. 
On an average basis, core depo
sits increased $6.9 billion, or 
10%, due to increases in interest checking of $3.1 billion, demand 

deposits of $2.8 billion, saving
s deposits of $2.7 billion and 
foreign office deposits of $1.2 billion, partially offset by a decrease 

in other time deposits of $3.6 billion. This activity was the result 

of the migration of higher priced
 certificates included in other 
time deposits into transaction accounts, as well as the impact of 
historically low rates and excess customer liquidity. 
  TABLE 22: DEPOSITS      
As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
2010
20092008 20072006
Demand  
$21,413
19,41115,287 14,40414,331
Interest checking 18,56019,93514,222 15,25415,993
Savings 
20,903
17,89816,063 15,63513,181
Money market 5,035
4,4314,689 6,5216,584
Foreign office 
3,721
2,4542,144 2,5721,353
   Transaction deposits 
69,632
64,12952,405 54,38651,442
Other time 7,728
12,46614,350 11,44010,987
   Core deposits 
77,360
76,59566,755 65,82662,429
Certificates - $100,000 and over 
4,287
7,70011,851 6,7386,628
Other  1107 2,881323
Total deposits 
$81,648
84,30578,613 75,44569,380
     
TABLE 23: AVERAGE DEPOSITS     
As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
2010
20092008 20072006
Demand  
$19,669
16,86214,017 13,26113,741
Interest checking 18,218
15,07014,191 14,82016,650
Savings 
19,612
16,87516,192 14,83612,189
Money market 4,808
4,3206,127 6,3086,366
Foreign office 
3,355
2,1082,153 1,762732
   Transaction deposits 
65,662
55,23552,680 50,98749,678
Other time 10,52614,10311,135 10,77810,500
   Core deposits 
76,188
69,33863,815 61,76560,178
Certificates - $100,000 and over 
6,083
10,3679,531 6,4665,795
Other  61572,067 1,3932,979
Total average deposits 
$82,277
79,86275,413 69,62468,952
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
         Fifth Third Bancorp    47 
Borrowings 
Total borrowings declined $693 million from December 31, 2009, 
as the result of a decrease in long-term debt partially offset by an 

increase in federal funds purchased and other short-term 

borrowings.   
Long-term debt at December 31, 2010 decreased $949 
million, or nine percent, compared to December 31, 2009 

primarily as the result of the repayment of $1.0 billion in FHLB 

advances during the fourth quarter of 2010 and the maturity of 

$800 million of long-term debt in the first quarter of 2010. These 

declines were partially offset by 
the impact of a change in U.S. 
GAAP which required the Bancorp to consolidate long-term debt 

on January 1, 2010 that had an outstanding balance of $692 
million as of December 31, 2010. 
Average borrowings declined $5.2 billion from 2009, 
primarily as a result of repayment of term auction facility funds 
and FHLB advances throughout 2009 which contributed $3.7 
billion and $1.2 billion, respectivel
y, to average balances in 2009. 
These repayments were made possible by a decrease in loan 

demand combined with growth in deposits during 2009. See the 

Capital Management Section for additional information. 
 Information on the average rates paid on borrowings is 
included within the Statements 
of Income Analysis. Additionally, 
refer to the Liquidity Risk Mana
gement section for a discussion 
on the role of borrowings in the Bancorp™s liquidity management.
 On January 25, 2011, the Bancorp issued $1.0 billion of 
senior notes to third party investors, bearing a fixed rate of 

interest of 3.625% per annum. Th
e notes are unsecured, senior 
obligations of the Bancorp and mature on January 25, 2016. See 
Note 32 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statement for 
further information on the debt issuance.
    
   
  TABLE 24: BORROWINGS     
As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
2010
20092008 20072006
Federal funds purchased 
$279
182287 4,4271,421
Other short-term borrowings 
1,5741,4159,959 4,7472,796
Long-term debt 
9,558
10,50713,585 12,85712,558
Total borrowings 
$11,41112,10423,831 22,03116,775
 TABLE 25: AVERAGE BORROWINGS     
As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
2010
20092008 20072006
Federal funds purchased 
$291
5172,975 3,6464,148
Other short-term borrowings 
1,6356,4637,785 3,2448,670
Long-term debt 
10,90211,03513,903 12,50514,247
Total borrowings 
$12,828
18,01524,663 19,39527,065
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  48     Fifth Third Bancorp 
 RISK MANAGEMENT  
Managing risk is an essential co
mponent of successfully operating 
a financial services company. The Bancorp™s risk management 
approach includes processes for 
identifying, assessing, managing, 
monitoring and reporting risks. The ERM division, led by the 

Bancorp™s Chief Risk Officer, ensures the consistency and 

adequacy of the Bancorp™s risk management approach within the 

structure of the Bancorp™s affiliat
e operating model. In addition, 
the Internal Audit division provides an independent assessment of 
the Bancorp™s internal control structure and related systems and 
processes.  
The assumption of risk require
s robust and active risk 
management practices that comprise an integrated and 

comprehensive set of activities, mea
sures and strategies that apply 
to the entire organization. The Bancorp has established a Risk 

Appetite Framework that provides the foundations of corporate 

risk capacity, risk appetite and ri
sk tolerances. The Bancorp™s risk 
capacity is represented by its available financial resources. Risk 
capacity sets an absolute limit 
on risk-assumption in the Bancorp™s 
annual and strategic plans. The Bancorp™s policy currently 

discounts its risk capaci
ty by five percent to provide a buffer; as a 
result, the Bancorp™s risk appetite is limited by policy to 95% of its 

risk capacity. Economic capital is the amount of unencumbered financial 
resources necessary to support the Bancorp™s risks. The Bancorp 

measures economic capital under the 
assumption that it expects to 
maintain debt ratings at strong investment grade levels over time. 
The Bancorp™s capital policies require that the economic capital 

necessary in its business not ex
ceed its risk capacity less the 
aforementioned buffer. Risk appetite is the aggregate 
amount of risk the Bancorp is 
willing to accept in pursuit of its strategic and financial objectives. 

By establishing boundaries arou
nd risk taking and business 
decisions, and by incorporating the needs and goals of its 
shareholders, regulators, rating agencies and customers, the 
Bancorp™s risk appetite is aligned with its priorities and goals. Risk 

tolerance is the maximum amount of risk applicable to each of the 

eight specific risk categories included in its Enterprise Risk 

Management Framework. This is ex
pressed primarily in qualitative 
terms. The Bancorp™s risk appetite and risk tolerances are 

supported by risk targets and risk 
limits. Those limits are used to 
monitor the amount of risk a
ssumed at a granular level.  
 The risks faced by the Bancorp include, but are not limited to, 

credit, market, liquidity, operational, regulatory compliance, legal, 

reputational and strategi
c. Each of these risks is managed through 
the Bancorp™s risk program. ERM includes the following key 

functions:      Enterprise Risk Management Programs is responsible 
for  developing and overseeing the implementation of risk 
programs and reporting that facilitate a broad integrated 

view of risk. The department also leads the ongoing 
development of a strong risk management culture and the 
framework, policies and committees that support effective 

risk governance; 
     Commercial Credit Risk Management provides safety 
and soundness within an independent portfolio 
management framework that supports the Bancorp™s 

commercial loan growth strategies and underwriting 

practices, ensuring portfolio optimization and appropriate 

risk controls; 
     Risk Strategies and Reporting is responsible for 
quantitative analysis needed
 to support the commercial 
dual grading system, ALLL methodology and analytics 

needed to assess credit risk and develop mitigation 
strategies related to that risk. The department also 
provides oversight, reporting and monitoring of 
commercial underwriting and credit administration 
processes. The Risk Strategies and Reporting department 

is also responsible for the economic capital program; 
     Consumer Credit Risk Management provides safety and 
soundness within an independent management framework 
that supports the Bancorp™s consumer loan growth 

strategies, ensuring portfolio optimization, appropriate 

risk controls and oversight, reporting, and monitoring of 

underwriting and credit administration processes; 
     Operational Risk Management works with affiliates and 
lines of business to maintain processes to monitor and 
manage all aspects of operation
al risk including ensuring 
consistency in application of operational risk programs 
and Sarbanes-Oxley compliance;      Bank Protection oversees and manages fraud 
prevention and detection and provides investigative and 
recovery services for the Bancorp; 
     Capital Markets Risk Management is responsible for 
instituting, monitoring, and reporting appropriate trading 
limits, monitoring liquidity, interest rate risk, and risk 

tolerances within Treasury, Mortgage, and Capital Markets 

groups and utilizing a value at risk model for Bancorp 

market risk exposure;      Regulatory Compliance Risk Management ensures that 
processes are in place to monitor and comply with federal 
and state banking regulations, including fiduciary 

compliance processes. The function also has the 
responsibility for maintenance of an enterprise-wide 
compliance framework; and      The ERM division creates and maintains other 
functions, committees or processes as are necessary to 
effectively manage risk throughout the Bancorp. 
 
Risk management oversight and governance is provided by 
the Risk and Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors 

and through multiple management committees whose 

membership includes a broad cross-section of line of business, 
affiliate and support representati
ves. The Risk and Compliance 
Committee of the Board of Directors consists of five outside 

directors and has the responsibility for the oversight of risk 

management for the Bancorp, as well as for the Bancorp™s overall 

aggregate risk profile. The Risk and Compliance Committee of the 

Board of Directors has approved the formation of key 

management governance committees that are responsible for 

evaluating risks and controls. The primary committee responsible 
for the oversight of risk management is the ERMC. Committees 
accountable to the ERMC, which support the core risk programs, 

are the Corporate Credit Committee, the Operational Risk 

Committee, the Management Compliance Committee, the 

Executive Asset Liability 
Management Committee and the Enterprise Marketing Committee. Other committees accountable 

to the ERMC oversee the ALLL, capital and community 

reinvestment act/fair lending functions. There are also new 
products and initiatives processe
s applicable to every line of 
business to ensure an appropriate 
standard readiness assessment is 
performed before launching a new product or initiative. 

Significant risk policies approved by the management governance 

committees are also reviewed and approved by the Risk and 

Compliance Committee of the Board of Directors. 
Finally, Credit Risk Review is an independent function 
responsible for evaluating the sufficiency of underwriting, 
documentation and approval processes for consumer and 
commercial credits, the accuracy of
 risk grades assigned to 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
   Fifth Third Bancorp    49 
commercial credit exposure, appropriate accounting for charge-
offs, and non-accrual status and 
specific reserves. Credit Risk 
Review reports directly to the 
Risk and Compliance Committee of 
the Board of Directors and administratively to the Director of 

Internal Audit. 
 CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT  
The objective of the Bancorp's credit risk management strategy is 
to quantify and manage credit risk
 on an aggregate portfolio basis, 
as well as to limit the risk of loss resulting from an individual 

customer default. The Bancorp's credit risk management strategy 

is based on three core principles: conservatism, diversification and 
monitoring. The Bancorp believes that effective credit risk 
management begins with conservative lending practices. These 

practices include conservative 
exposure and counterparty limits 
and conservative underwriting
, documentation and collection standards. The Bancorp's credit risk management strategy also 

emphasizes diversification on a geog
raphic, industry and customer 
level as well as regular cred
it examinations and monthly 
management reviews of large credit exposures and credits 
experiencing deterioration of cred
it quality. Lending officers with 
the authority to extend credit are delegated specific authority 

amounts, the utilization of which is closely monitored. 

Underwriting activities are centrally managed, and ERM manages 

the policy and the authority delega
tion process directly. The Credit 
Risk Review function, which repor
ts to the Risk and Compliance 
Committee of the Board of Directors, provides objective 

assessments of the quality of underwriting and documentation, the 
accuracy of risk grades and the charge-off, nonaccrual and reserve 
analysis process. The Bancorp's credit review process and overall 

assessment of the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses is 

based on quarterly assessments of the probable estimated losses 

inherent in the loan and lease 
portfolio. The Bancorp uses these 
assessments to promptly identify potential problem loans or leases 

within the portfolio, maintain an
 adequate reserve and take any 
necessary charge-offs. In addition to the individual review of 
larger commercial loans that exhibit probable or observed credit 
weaknesses, the commercial credit review process includes the use 

of two risk grading systems. Th
e risk grading system currently 
utilized for reserve analysis purposes encompasses ten categories. 

The Bancorp also maintains a dual risk rating system that provides 

for thirteen probabilities of default grade categories and an 

additional six grade categories for 
estimating losses given an event 
of default. The probability of default and loss given default 
evaluations are not separated in the ten-grade risk rating system. 
The Bancorp has completed significant validation and testing of 

the dual risk rating system. Sc
oring systems, various analytical 
tools and delinquency monitoring are used to assess the credit risk 

in the Bancorp's homogenous consumer and small business loan 

portfolios.  

 
Overview 
General economic conditions remained weak throughout most of 
2009, but showed some signs of moderation during 2010. These 

conditions negatively impacted the 2009 performance of a 

majority of the Bancorp's loan and lease products. Geographically, 

the Bancorp continues to experience the most stress in Michigan 

and Florida due to the decline in
 real estate values. Real estate 
value deterioration, as measured by the Home Price Index, was 

most prevalent in Florida due to past real estate price appreciation 
and related over-development, and in Michigan due in part to 
cutbacks in automobile manufa
cturing and the state's economic 
downturn. Among commercial portf
olios, the homebuilder and 
developer and the remaining non-owner occupied commercial real 

estate portfolios remained under 
stress throughout 2009 and 2010. 
Among consumer portfolios, residential mortgage and brokered 
home equity portfolios exhibited the most stress. Management 

suspended homebuilder and developer lending in the fourth 

quarter of 2007 and new commercial non-owner occupied real 

estate lending in the second quarter of 2008, discontinued the 
origination of brokered home equity
 products at the end of 2007 
and tightened underwriting standards across both the commercial 

and consumer loan product offering
s. Since the fourth quarter of 
2008, in an effort to reduce loan
 exposure to the real estate and 
construction industries, the Bancorp has sold certain consumer 

loans and sold or transferred to held for sale certain commercial 

loans. Throughout 2009 and 2010,
 the Bancorp continued to 
aggressively engage in other lo
ss mitigation strategies such as 
reducing credit commitments, restructuring certain commercial 
and consumer loans, tightening underwriting standards on 

commercial loans and across the cons
umer loan portfolio, as well 
as utilizing expanded commerc
ial and consumer loan workout 
teams. In the financial services industry, there has been 

heightened focus on foreclosure activity and processes in recent 

months due to issues concer
ning documentation supporting 
foreclosures. Fifth Third actively works with borrowers 
experiencing difficulties and has modified or provided forbearance 
to borrowers on approximately $1
.8 billion of its own mortgages 
during the past several years wh
ere a workable solution could be 
found. Foreclosure is a last reso
rt, and the Bancorp undertakes 
foreclosures only when it believes they are necessary and 

appropriate and are careful to ensure
 that customer and loan data 
are accurate. The Bancorp conducted reviews of its foreclosure 

processes and procedures in the 
third quarter of 2010, which did 
not reveal any material deficiencies, and has continued to expand 
and extend these reviews and impr
ove its processes as additional 
aspects of the industry™s foreclosure practices have come under 

intensified scrutiny and criticis
m. These reviews are ongoing and 
the Bancorp may determine to amend its processes and 

procedures as a result of these reviews. While any impact to the 

Bancorp that ultimately results 
from continued reviews cannot yet 
be determined, management currently believes that such impact 
will not materially adversely affect the Bancorp's results of 
operations, liquidity or capital resources. 
 Commercial Portfolio 
The Bancorp™s credit risk management strategy includes 

minimizing concentrations of ri
sk through diversification. The 
Bancorp has commercial loan concentration limits based on 

industry, lines of business within the commercial segment and 
credit product type. 
The risk within the commercial 
loan and lease portfolio is 
managed and monitored through an
 underwriting process utilizing 
detailed origination policies, cont
inuous loan level reviews, the 
monitoring of industry concentration and product type limits and 

continuous portfolio risk management reporting. The origination 

policies for commercial real estate outline the risks and 

underwriting requirements fo
r owner occupied, non-owner 
occupied and construction lending. Included in the policies are 
maturity and amortization terms,
 maximum LTV, minimum debt 
service coverage ratios, construction loan monitoring procedures, 

appraisal requirements, pre-leasing requirements (as applicable) 

and sensitivity and pro-forma analysis requirements. The Bancorp 

requires an appraisal of collateral be performed at origination and 

on an as-needed basis, in conformi
ty with market conditions and 
regulatory requirements. It is the Bancorp™s policy to obtain an ﬁas 
is valueﬂ appraisal annually on all criticized assets. Independent 
reviews are performed on appraisals to ensure the appraiser is 

qualified and consistency in the evaluation process exists.  
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  50   Fifth Third Bancorp     
Table 26 provides detail on total commercial loan and leases, excl
uding held-for-sale, by major industry classification (as def
ined by the North 
American Industry Classification System), by loan size and by 
state, illustrating the diversity and granularity of the Bancorp™
s commercial loans and leases. The Bancorp has identified certain categories of commercial loans 
which it believes represent a higher level of risk, as compared to 

the rest of the Bancorp™s commercial loan portfolio, due to 

economic or market conditions in the Bancorp™s key lending areas. 
Tables 27 Œ 30 provide analysis 
of each of the categories of 
commercial loans, excluding loans he
ld for sale, as of and for the 
years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
 TABLE 27: NON-OWNER OCCUPIED COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE
    
 As of December 31, 2010 ($ in millions) 
   
For the Year Ended  
December 31, 2010 
 
By State: 
 Outstanding  
 Exposure 
90 Days        
Past Due 
 Nonaccrual 
 Net Charge-offs 
Ohio       $2,332    2,565290 119
Michigan 
        1,695    1,809285 123
Florida 
        935    1,0221120 180
Illinois 
           568654-39 65
North Carolina 
           392438-37 58
Indiana 
           387419-19 32
All other states 
        751823-39 48
Total 
     $7,0607,7305429                    625
 TABLE 26: COMMERCIAL LOAN AND LEASE PORTFOLIO EXPOSURE
  2010
 2009 
As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
OutstandingExposureNonaccrua
lOutstandin
g ExposureNonaccrual
By industry: 
Real estate 
$8,2959,532378
10,091 11,622915
Manufacturing 
7,20214,979149
6,289 13,093204
Financial services and insurance 
3,8308,18478
4,354 8,70240
Healthcare 
3,4025,42135
3,004 4,92167
Business services 
3,3145,37950
2,643 4,59549
Wholesale trade 
2,9265,68918
2,248 4,63248
Construction 
2,7894,124242
3,759 5,281700
Retail trade 
2,5485,37748
2,678 5,552104
Transportation and warehousing 
2,0742,56615
2,503 3,00351
Other services 
1,0621,47335
1,127 1,55833
Communication and information 
1,0041,6687
792 1,3468
Accommodation and food 
9531,47626
1,019 1,50558
Mining 
8511,44319
765 1,18216
Entertainment and recreation 7881,0127
740 94915
Individuals 
69083010
737 90519
Public administration 
6168489
681 877-
Utilities 
5951,600-
473 1,310-
Agribusiness 
48362185
585 74259
Other 401193
317 6796
Total 
$43,46272,3411,214
44,805 72,4542,392
By loan size: 
 Less than $200,000 
3 % 28 
3  24
$200,000 to $1 million 
10 825
12 918
$1 million to $5 million 
21 1734
26 2039
$5 million to $10 million 
13118
13 1118
$10 million to $25 million 
252519
24 2617
Greater than $25 million 
28376
22 324
Total 
 100 % 100 100 
 100  100 100 
By state: 
 Ohio 25% 2917
28 3115
Michigan 
151322
16 1418
Illinois 
888
8 99
Florida 
8717
9 726
Indiana 
667
6 66
Kentucky 
545
5 54
North Carolina 
334
3 31
Tennessee 331
2 24
Pennsylvania 
221
2 2-
All other states 
252518
21 2117
Total 
 100% 100 100
100 100 100
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
         Fifth Third Bancorp    51 
 TABLE 29: HOME BUILDER AND DEVELOPER 
(a)     
 As of December 31, 2010 ($ in millions) 
   
For the Year Ended  
December 31, 2010 
 
By State: 
 Outstanding  
 Exposure 
90 Days        
Past Due 
 Nonaccrual 
 Net Charge-offs 
Ohio       $202331-35 39
Michigan 
151212123 65
Florida 
103117-44 81
North Carolina 
6880-10 33
Indiana 
6785-8 13
All other states 
108159-20 43
Total 
$6999841140 274
(a) Home Builder and Developer loans, exclusive of commercia
l and industrial loans with an outstanding balance of 
$134
 and a total exposure of 
$319
 are also included in Table 27: Non-Owner 
Occupied Commercial Real Estate 
. TABLE 30: HOME BUILDER AND DEVELOPER 
(a)     
 As of December 31, 2
009 ($ in millions) 
   For the Year Ended  
December 31, 2009 
 
By State: 
 Outstanding  
 Exposure 
90 Days        
Past Due 
 Nonaccrual 
 Net Charge-offs 
Ohio       $346542273 34
Michigan 278351763 77
Florida 3183364136 98

North Carolina 229260395 49
Indiana 108133-12 9
All other states 284383394 91
Total $1,5632,00519473                    358
(a) Home Builder and Developer loans, exclusive of commercial an
d industrial loans with an outstanding balance of $200 and a to
tal exposure of $461 are also included in Table 28: Non-Owner 
Occupied Commercial Real Estate
    Consumer Portfolio 
The Bancorp™s consumer portfolio
 is materially comprised of 
three categories of loans: residential mortgage, home equity, and 

automobile loans. The Bancorp ha
s identified certain categories 
within these loan types which it believes represent a higher level 
of risk compared to the rest of the consumer loan portfolio due to 

high loan amount to collateral value. 
 Residential Mortgage Portfolio 
The Bancorp manages credit risk in the mortgage portfolio 

through conservative underwriti
ng and documentation standards 
and geographic and product diversification. The Bancorp may also 
package and sell loans in the portfolio or may purchase mortgage 

insurance for the loans sold in order to mitigate credit risk.  
The Bancorp does not originate mortgage loans that permit 
customers to defer principal payments or make payments that are 
less than the accruing interest. The Bancorp originates both fixed 

and adjustable rate residential mortgage loans. Resets of rates on 

adjustable rate mortgages are not expected to have a material 
impact on credit costs in the current interest rate environment, as 
approximately $1.3 billion of adju
stable rate residential mortgage 
loans will have rate resets in 2011, with less than one percent of 

those resets expected to experience an increase in monthly 
payments. Certain residential mortgage products have contractual 
features that may increase credit
 exposure to the Bancorp in the 
event of a decline in housing prices. These types of mortgage 

products offered by the Bancorp include loans with high LTV 

ratios, multiple loans on the same collateral that when combined 

result in an LTV greater than 80% (80/20 loans) and interest-only 

loans. The Bancorp monitors residential mortgages loans with 
greater than 80% LTV ratio and no mortgage insurance as it 
believes these loans represent a higher level of risk. Tables 31 and 

32 provide analysis of the residential mortgage loans outstanding 

with a greater than 80% LTV ratio and no mortgage insurance as 

of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 
  
 
       TABLE 28: NON-OWNER OCCUPIED COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE
    
 As of December 31, 2
009 ($ in millions) 
   For the Year Ended  
December 31, 2009 
 
By State: 
 Outstanding  
 Exposure 
90 Days        
Past Due 
 Nonaccrual 
 Net Charge-offs 
Ohio       $2,917    3,25014204 111
Michigan         2,003    2,19316173 153
Florida         1,517    1,6117384 229

Illinois            8209354109 48
North Carolina            7167683146 54
Indiana            531553-49 27

All other states         1,0371,3453154 99
Total      $9,54110,655471,219                    721
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  52    Fifth Third Bancorp  
   TABLE 31: RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE LOANS OUTSTANDING,
 LTV GREATER THAN 80%, NO MORTGAGE INSURANCE
  As of December 31, 2010 ($ in millions) 
  For the Year Ended  
December 31, 2010 
 
By State: 
 Outstanding 
90 Days         
Past Due 
 Nonaccrual 
 Net Charge-offs 
Ohio   $569  3   24                   22
Michigan 
   294   2      20                   21
Florida 
   294   4      31                   56
North Carolina 
   131   1      7                    12
Indiana  
   111   1       4                    6
Kentucky 
   78   1       3                    2
Illinois 
   67   -       1                    4
All other states 
   122   3      5                    8
Total 
            $1,666   15    95                    131
 TABLE 32: RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE LOANS OUTSTANDING,
 LTV GREATER THAN 80%, NO MORTGAGE INSURANCE
  As of December 31, 2
009 ($ in millions) 
  For the Year Ended  
December 31, 2009 
 
By State: 
 Outstanding 
90 Days         
Past Due 
 Nonaccrual 
 Net Charge-offs 
Ohio   $673  4         25                   18
Michigan    350   3      13                   21
Florida    388   9      50                   68

North Carolina    169   5       9                    8
Indiana     145   1       7                    4
Kentucky    92   1       3                    2

Illinois    62   1       6                    2
All other states    141   2      8                    5
Total             $2,020   26    121                    128
 Home Equity Portfolio 
The home equity portfolio is managed in two categories, loans 

outstanding with a LTV greater than 80% and those loans with a 

LTV of less than 80%. The carrying value of the greater than 80% 

LTV home equity loans and less than 80% LTV home equity 

loans were $4.6 billion and $6.9 billion, respectively, as of 

December 31, 2010. Of the total $11.5 billion of outstanding 
home equity loans, 82% reside 
within the Bancorp™s Midwest 
footprint of Ohio, Michigan, Kent
ucky, Indiana and Illinois. The 
portfolio has an average FICO score at loan origination of 734 at 

December 31, 2010 compared to 730 at December 31, 2009.  
The Bancorp actively manages lines of credit and makes 
reductions in lending limits when it believes it is necessary based 

on FICO score deterioration and property devaluation. The 

Bancorp believes that home equity 
loans with a greater than 80% 
LTV ratio present a higher level of risk. The following tables 

provide analysis of these loans as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
  TABLE 33: HOME EQUITY LOANS OUTSTANDING WITH LTV GREATER THAN 80%
  As of December 31, 2010 ($ in millions) 
   
For the Year Ended  
December 31, 2010 
 
By State: 
 Outstanding  
 Exposure 
90 Days       
Past Due 
 Nonaccrual 
 Net Charge-offs 
Ohio       $1,5762,28897 35
Michigan 
      998     1,317         9          5                      50
Illinois 
        482     662        5        3                      22
Indiana  
      451     638         4          2                      10
Kentucky 
      421     614         3          2                      9
Florida 
      172     218         8          4                      21
All other states 
      466     568        7          4                      28
Total 
     $4,566     6,305        45          27                      175
 TABLE 34: HOME EQUITY LOANS OUTSTANDING WITH LTV GREATER THAN 80%
  As of December 31, 2
009 ($ in millions) 
   For the Year Ended  
December 31, 2009 
 
By State: 
 Outstanding  
 Exposure 
90 Days       
Past Due 
 Nonaccrual 
 Net Charge-offs 
Ohio       $1,7272,46513          6 43
Michigan       1,091     1,417         14          6                      61

Illinois         505     689         5        3                      32
Indiana        499     691         5          2                      13
Kentucky       471     672         4          2                      12
Florida       198     248         8          3                      35

All other states       523     618        9          5                      37
Total      $5,014     6,800        58          27                      233
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
     Fifth Third Bancorp    53     
Automobile Portfolio 
The automobile portfolio is charac
terized by direct and indirect 
lending products to consumers. As of December 31, 2010, the 

automobile loan portfolio was comprised of approximately 48% 

in new automobile loans. It is
 a common practice to advance on 
automobile loans an amount in excess of the automobile value 
due to the inclusion of taxes, title,
 and other fees paid at closing. 
The Bancorp monitors its exposure 
to these higher risk accounts. 
The following tables provide analy
sis of the Bancorp™s automobile 
loans with a LTV at origination greater than 100% as of 

December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
    TABLE 36: AUTOMOBILE LOANS OUTSTANDING WITH LTV GREATER THAN 100%
  As of December 31, 2
009 ($ in millions) 
  For the Year Ended  
December 31, 2009 
 By State: 
 Outstanding 
90 Days       
Past Due 
 Nonaccrual 
 Net Charge-offs 
Ohio      $422        1          -                      9
Illinois  3571          -                    9
Michigan  2521          -                    6
Indiana  215-          -                      5

Florida  1931          -                      11
Kentucky  177-          -                      4
All other states 2,0676          1 46
Total $3,68310          1                    90
Analysis of Nonperforming Assets
   
A summary of nonperforming assets
 is included in Table 37. 
Nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans and leases for 

which ultimate collectability of the full amount of the principal 
and/or interest is uncertain; rest
ructured consumer loans which 
are 90 days past due based on the restructured terms and credit 

card loans immediately upon re
structuring; restructured 
commercial loans which have not yet met the requirements to be 

classified as a performing asset; and other assets, including OREO 

and repossessed equipment. Typically, commercial loans, home 

equity, automobile and other consumer loans and leases are 

reported on nonaccrual status if principal or interest has been in 
default for 90 days or more unless the loan is both well-secured 
and in the process of collection. Residential mortgage loans are 

typically placed on nonaccrual status
 when principal and interest 
payments have become past due 150 days unless such loans are 

both well secured and in the process 
of collection. When a loan is 
placed on nonaccrual status, the accr
ual of interest, amortization 
of loan premiums, accretion of loan discounts and amortization or 

accretion of deferred net loan fees or costs are discontinued and 
previously accrued, but unpaid 
interest is reversed. Commercial 
loans on nonaccrual status are reviewed for level of impairment at 

least quarterly. If the principal 
or a portion of the principal is 
deemed a loss, the loss amount is charged off to the ALLL. 
Total nonperforming assets were $2.5 billion at December 
31, 2010, compared to $3.5 billion at December 31, 2009. At 

December 31, 2010, $294 million 
of nonaccrual commercial loans 
were held-for-sale, a significant portion of which were real estate 
secured loans in Michigan and Florida. Nonperforming assets as a 
percentage of total loans, leases and other assets, including OREO 

and nonaccrual loans held for sale, was 3.08% and 4.38% as of 

December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Excluding the held-

for-sale nonaccrual loans, nonperforming assets as a percentage of 
total loans, leases and other assets, including OREO, as of 
December 31, 2010 was 2.79% compared to 4.22% as of 

December 31, 2009. The composition of nonaccrual loans and 
leases continues to be concentr
ated in real estate as 66% of 
nonaccrual loans were secured by real estate as of December 31, 

2010 compared to approximately 77% as of December 31, 2009.  
Commercial nonperforming loans and leases decreased to 
$1.6 billion at December 31, 2010 from $2.6 billion at December 

31, 2009 due to the impact of previous loss mitigation actions and 

moderation in general economic conditions. Excluding 

nonperforming loans held-for-sale, commercial nonperforming 
loans and leases decreased from $2.3 billion at December 31, 2009 
to $1.3 billion as of December 31, 2010. These decreases were due 

to the previously discussed fact
ors and the impact of commercial 
nonperforming loans transferred to held for sale during the third 

quarter of 2010. The Bancorp tran
sferred commercial loans with a 
carrying value prior to transfer of $961 million to held for sale 

during the third quarter, of which $694 million were 

nonperforming. Of those loans transferred in the third quarter of 
2010, 52% were secured by non-owner occupied real estate, 
including 22% secured by developed and undeveloped land. 

Approximately 40% of those transferred loans were in Florida or 

Michigan. The remaining balance of the loans transferred during 
the third quarter of 2010 was $223 million at December 31, 2010.   
Consumer nonperforming loans and leases decreased to $466 
million as of December 31, 2010, compared to $555 million at 

December 31, 2009, driven primarily 
by a $144 million decrease in 
residential mortgage loans on nonaccrual, partially offset by an 
$84 million increase in other consumer loans. The decrease in 

residential mortgage loans was primarily the result of $205 million 

of nonperforming residential mortgage loans sold during the third 

quarter of 2010. The increase in other consumer loans was the 
TABLE 35: AUTOMOBILE LOANS OUTSTANDING WITH LTV GREATER THAN 100%
  As of December 31, 2010 ($ in millions) 
  For the Year Ended    
December 31, 2010 
 
By State: 
 Outstanding 
90 Days       
Past Due 
 Nonaccrual 
 Net Charge-offs 
Ohio      $4471          -                      5
Illinois 
 3751          -                    5
Michigan 
 269-          -                    4
Indiana 
 2081          -                      3
Florida 
 199-          -                      5
Kentucky 
 181-          -                      3
All other states 
2,4514          2 33
Total 
$4,1307          2                    58
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  54    Fifth Third Bancorp     
result of the Bancorp™s foreclosure, during the fourth quarter of 
2010, on a commercial loan collater
alized by individual consumer 
loans with a carrying value of $78 million that were classified as 

nonaccrual loans at December 31, 2010. Consumer restructured 

loans on accrual status totaled $1.6 billion and $1.4 billion as of 
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectivel
y, driven by an increased 
volume of restructured loans. 
As of December 31, 2010, redefault 
rates on restructured residential mortgage, home equity loans and 

credit card loans were 27%, 18% and 20%, respectively. Repossessed personal property and OREO increased from 
$297 million at December 31, 2009 to $494 million at December 

31, 2010, driven by higher levels
 of foreclosures on commercial 
mortgage loans. At December 
31, 2010 OREO totaled $467 
million and included $351 million of commercial assets and $116 
million of consumer assets. Properties in Michigan and Florida 

accounted for 49% of foreclosed real estate at December 31, 

2010.  In 2010 and 2009, approximately $10 million and $20 million, 
respectively, of interest income was recognized on a cash basis for 

loans on nonaccrual. In 2010 and 
2009, additional interest income 
of approximately $206 million and $236 million, respectively, 
would have been recorded if the nonaccrual and renegotiated 
loans and leases on nonaccrual status had been current in 

accordance with the original terms. Although this value helps 

demonstrate the costs of carrying nonaccrual credits, the Bancorp 

does not expect to recover the full amount of interest. 
 Analysis of Net Loan Charge-offs 
Net charge-offs were 302 bp of av
erage loans and leases for 2010, 
compared to 320 bp for 2009. Table 39 provides a summary of 
credit loss experience and net charge-offs as a percentage of 

average loans and leases outstanding by loan category. 
The ratio of commercial loan net charge-offs to average 
commercial loans outstanding decreased to 3.10% in 2010 

compared to 3.27% in 2009. Th
is improvement was primarily due 
to actions taken by the Bancorp to address problem loans, 

reflected by significant net charge-offs recorded in 2008 and 2009 
and the impact of loss mitigation 
activities such as suspending 
home builder and developer lending and non-owner occupied 

commercial real estate lending in 2007 and 2008, respectively, and 

tighter underwriting standards implemented on commercial loan 

products over the past three years. Net charge-offs for 2010 

included $625 million related to
 non-owner occupied commercial 
real-estate, a decrease from $721 million in 2009. Charge-offs on 

these loans represented 46% of 
all commercial net charge-offs in 
2010 and 2009. Florida and Michigan
 continued to experience the 
most stress, accounting for approximately 48% of the total net 
charge-offs in the commercial lo
an product portfolio in 2010 
compared to 44% in 2009. 
The ratio of consumer loan net charge-offs to average 
consumer loans outstanding decreased to 2.92% in 2010 

compared to 3.10% in 2009. Comp
ared to 2009, total consumer 
net charge-offs decreased $54 million to $964 million in 2010. 
Residential mortgage loan net char
ge-offs increased $82 million to 
$439 million during 2010. The ratio of residential mortgage net 

charge-offs to average residential 
mortgage loans increased from 
4.15% in 2009 to 5.49% in 2010. These increases were primarily 

due to $123 million in charge-offs taken on $228 million of 

portfolio residential mortgage loans sold during the third quarter 

of 2010. The Bancorp™s Florida and Michigan markets continue to 
experience the most stress as resi
dential mortgage loan charge-offs 
in these states accounted for 72% of residential mortgage net 

charge-offs during 2010.    
Home equity net charge-offs d
ecreased $58 million to $264 
million during 2010. The ratio of home equity net charge-offs to 

average home equity loans decreased from 2.57% in 2009 to 

2.20% in 2010. These decreases ar
e primarily due to a $33 million 
decrease in net charge-offs on the brokered home equity portfolio 
and a $20 million decrease in net charge-offs in the Florida and 
Michigan markets on home equity products originated by the 

Bancorp. Management responded to the performance of the 

brokered home equity portfolio by
 eliminating this channel of 
origination at the end of 2007. 
In addition, management actively 
manages lines of credit and makes reductions in lending limits 

when it believes it is necessary based on FICO score deterioration 

and property devaluation.  
Automobile loan net charge offs decreased $60 million to $88 
million in 2010. The ratio of auto
mobile loan net charge-offs to 
average automobile loans was .85% for 2010, a decrease of 83 bp 

compared to 2009. These decreases are the result of 

improvements in delinquencies and loss severity as well as 

improvements made in underwriting over the past three years. 
Credit card net charge-offs decreased $15 million to $155 
million in 2010. The net charge-off ratio on credit card balances 
decreased from 8.87% in 2009 to 8.28% in 2010. The decreases 
from the prior year are primarily due to the Bancorp actively 

managing open credit card balances and a decrease in delinquency 

trends throughout 2010 as general economic conditions began to 

show signs of improvement. Management expects trends in the 

charge-off ratio on credit card balances to be consistent with 

general economic trends, such as unemployment and personal 

bankruptcy filings. The Bancorp employs a risk-adjusted pricing 
methodology to help ensure adequate compensation is received 
for those products that have higher credit costs. 
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
      Fifth Third Bancorp    55     
 Troubled Debt Restructurings 
If a borrower is experiencing financial difficulty, the Bancorp may 
consider, in certain circumstances, modifying the terms of their 

loan to maximize collection of amounts due. Typically, these 

modifications reduce the loan interest rate, extend the loan term, 

or in limited circumstances, reduce the principal balance of the 
loan. These modifications are classified as TDRs.  
At the time of modification, the Bancorp maintains certain 
consumer loan TDRs (including residential mortgage loans, home 

equity loans, and other consumer loans) on accrual status, 
provided there is reasonable assurance of repayment and 
performance according to the modified terms based upon a 

current, well-documented credit evaluation. Commercial loan 

TDRs and credit card TDRs are c
lassified as nonaccrual loans and 
are typically returned to accrual status upon a six month period of 
sustained performance under the restructured terms. These 
approaches are consistent with published guidance from 

regulatory agencies. The following table summarizes TDRs by 

loan type and delinquency status. 
       TABLE 37: SUMMARY OF NONPERFORMING ASSETS AND DELINQUENT LOANS    
As of December 31 ($ in mill
ions) 20102009
2008 20072006
Nonaccrual loans and leases: 
 Commercial and industrial loans 
(a)
 $473
734541 175127
Commercial mortgage loans 
407
898482 24384
Commercial construction loans 
182646362 24954
Commercial leases 
116721 56
Residential mortgage loans 
152275259 9238
Home equity  
232126 4540
Automobile loans 
 115 33
Other consumer loans and leases 
(a) 
84-- 1-
Restructured loans and leases: 
 Commercial and industrial loans  
9535- --
Commercial mortgage loans 
284- --
Commercial construction loans 
108- --
Commercial leases 
8-- --
Residential mortgage loans 
(b)
 11613720 27-
Home equity (b)
 333329 11-
Automobile loans 
(b) 
 211 --
Credit card 
558730 5-
Total nonperforming loans and leases 
1,6802,9471,776 856352
Repossessed personal property and other real estate owned 
494
297230 171103
Total nonperforming assets 
(c) 2,174
3,2442,006 1,027455
Nonaccrual loans held for sale 
294
224473 --
Total nonperforming assets including loans held for sale 
$2,468
3,4682,479 1,027455
  Commercial and industrial loans 
$1611876 4438
Commercial mortgage loans 
1159136 7317
Commercial construction loans 
31774 676
Commercial leases 
-44 42
Residential mortgage loans
(d) 
100189198 18668
Home equity 899996 7251
Automobile loans
 131721 1311
Credit card  
426456 3116
Other consumer loans and leases 
--1 11
Total 90 days past 
due loans and leases 
$274
567662 491210
Nonperforming assets as a percent of 
total loans, leases and other assets, 
including other real estate owned 
(c)  2.79%
4.222.38 1.25.61
Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percent of nonperforming assets 
(b) 
138116139 93170
(a) Nonaccrual loans and leases reflect a reclassification of $84 mill
ion in nonperforming loans from commercial and industrial loa
ns to other consumer loans and leases which occurred after the 
Bancorp™s Form 8-K was filed on January 19, 2011. This reclassifi
cation was primarily a result of the determination that consum
er loans obtained in the foreclosure of a commercial loan were 
more appropriately categorized as other consumer loan
s and leases in accordance with regulatory guidance. 
(b) During 2009, the Bancorp modified its cons
umer nonaccrual policy to exclude TDR loan
s that were less than 90 days past due beca
use they were performing in a
ccordance with the restructured 
terms. For comparability purposes, prior periods were adjusted to reflect this reclassification. 
(c) Excludes nonaccrual loans held for sale. 
(d) Information for all periods presented excludes 
advances made pursuant to servicing agreem
ents to GNMA mortgage pools whose repa
yments are insured by the Federal Housing Administration or 
guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs. As of 
December 31, 2010
, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 
2006, these advances were 
$279
, $130, $40, $25 and $14, respectively. 
 TABLE 38: PERFORMING AND NONPERFORMING TDRs
  Performing
    
As of December 31, 2010 ($
 in millions) Current 
30-89 Days Past 
Due 
90 Days or More 
Past Due  
 Nonaccrual Total  
Commercial $227-1  141$369
Residential mortgages
(a)
 9506749  1161,182
Home equity 36447-  33444
Credit card 46--  55101

Other consumer 323-  237
Total $1,61911750  347$2,133
(a) Information includes advances made pursuant to servicing agreemen
ts to GNMA mortgage pools whose repayments are insured by the 
Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the 
Department of Veterans Affairs. As of December 31, 2010, th
ese advances represented $44 of current loans, $17 of 30-89 days pas
t due loans and $22 of 90 days or more past due loans.
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  56    Fifth Third Bancorp     
Allowance for Credit Losses 
The allowance for credit losses is comprised of the ALLL and the 
reserve for unfunded commitments. The ALLL provides coverage 

for probable and estimable losses in the loan and lease portfolio. 

The Bancorp evaluates the ALLL each quarter to determine its 

adequacy to cover inherent losses. Several factors are taken into 
consideration in the determination of the overall ALLL, including 
an unallocated component. These factors include, but are not 

limited to, the overall risk profile 
of the loan and lease portfolios, 
net charge-off experience, the extent
 of impaired loans and leases, 
the level of nonaccrual loans and le
ases, the level of 90 days past 
due loans and leases and the over
all percentage level of the ALLL. 
The Bancorp also considers overall asset quality trends, credit 

administration and portfolio 
management practices, risk 
identification practices, credit po
licy and underwriting practices, 
overall portfolio growth, portfolio concentrations and current 

national and local economic conditions. See the Critical 

Accounting Policies section for more information. 
 In 2010 the Bancorp did not substantively change any 
material aspect of its overall approach in the determination of the 

ALLL and there have been no mate
rial changes in assumptions or 
estimation techniques as compared to prior periods that impacted 
the determination of the current period allowance. In addition to 
the ALLL, the Bancorp maintains a reserve for unfunded 
commitments recorded in other liabilities in the Consolidated 

Balance Sheets. The methodology used to determine the adequacy 

of this reserve is similar to the Bancorp™s methodology for 

determining the ALLL. The provis
ion for unfunded commitments 
is included in other noninterest expense in the Consolidated 
Statements of Income. 
Certain inherent, but unconfirmed losses are probable within 
the loan and lease portfolio. The Bancorp™s current methodology 

for determining the level of losses is based on historical loss rates, 

current credit grades, specific allocation on loans modified in a 

TDR and impaired commercial credits above specified thresholds 

and other qualitative adjustments. Due to the heavy reliance on 

realized historical losses and the credit grade rating process, the 
model derived required reserves tend to slightly lag the 
deterioration in the portfolio, in a stable or deteriorating credit 

environment, and tend not to be as responsive when improved 

conditions have presented themselves. Given these model 

limitations, the qualitative adjustment factors may be incremental 

or decremental to the quantitativ
e model results. An unallocated 
component to the ALLL is maintained to recognize the 

imprecision in estimating and mea
suring loss. The unallocated 
allowance as a percent of total por
tfolio loans and 
leases for the 
TABLE 39: SUMMARY OF CREDIT LOSS EXPERIENCE     
For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
2010
20092008 20072006
Losses charged off: 
 Commercial and industrial loans 
($631)(768)(667) (121)(131)
Commercial mortgage loans 
(541)(436)(618) (46)(27)
Commercial construction loans 
(265)(420)(750) (29)(7)
Commercial leases 
(7)(11)- (1)(4)
Residential mortgage loans 
(441)(359)(243) (43)(23)
Home equity 
(276)(330)(212) (106)(65)
Automobile loans 
(132)(189)(168) (117)(87)
Credit card 
(164)(178)(101) (54)(36)
Other consumer loans and leases 
(28)(28)(32) (27)(28)
Total losses 
(2,485)
(2,719)(2,791) (544)(408)
Recoveries of losses previously charged off: 
 Commercial and industrial loans 
455018 1224
Commercial mortgage loans 
17145 23
Commercial construction loans 
1342 --
Commercial leases 
541 15
Residential mortgage loans 
22- --
Home equity 
1287 99
Automobile loans 
444134 3230
Credit card 
987 85
Other consumer loans and leases 
1077 1816
Total recoveries 
15713881 8292
Net losses charged off: 
 Commercial and industrial loans 
(586)(718)(649) (109)(107)
Commercial mortgage loans 
(524)(422)(613) (44)(24)
Commercial construction loans 
(252)(416)(748) (29)(7)
Commercial leases 
(2)(7)1 -1
Residential mortgage loans 
(439)(357)(243) (43)(23)
Home equity 
(264)(322)(205) (97)(56)
Automobile loans 
(88)(148)(134) (85)(57)
Credit card 
(155)(170)(94) (46)(31)
Other consumer loans and leases 
(18)(21)(25) (9)(12)
Total net losses charged off 
($2,328)
(2,581)(2,710) (462)(316)
Net charge-offs as a percent of average lo
ans and leases (excluding held for sale):
  Commercial and industrial loans 
2.23% 
2.612.31 .49.53
Commercial mortgage loans 
4.58
3.434.80 .40.25
Commercial construction loans 
8.48
9.2412.80 .51.11
Commercial leases 
0.05
0.22(.02) .01(.03)
Total commercial loans and leases 
3.103.273.99 .43.34
Residential mortgage loans 
5.49
4.152.47 .48.27
Home equity 
2.20
2.571.67 .82.46
Automobile loans 
0.85
1.681.56 .83.60
Credit card 
8.28
8.875.51 3.553.65
Other consumer loans and leases 
2.58
2.142.10 .83.91
Total consumer loans and leases 
2.92
3.102.08 .84.55
Total net losses charged off 
3.02% 
3.203.23 .61.44
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
         Fifth Third Bancorp    57 
year ended December 31, 2010 was .19%, or five percent of the 
total ALLL, compared to .25%, or 
five percent of the total ALLL, 
as of December 31, 2009. The unallocated allowance was held 

consistent to the total ALLL due to many of the impacts of recent 

economic events being more fully incorporated into the historical 
loss rates within the portfolio specific models and stabilization in 
general economic factors including re
al estate values in certain of 
the Bancorp™s lending markets.  
The ALLL as a percent of the total loan and lease portfolio 
decreased to 3.88% at December 31, 2010, compared to 4.88% at 

December 31, 2009. Total ALLL was $3.0 billion and $3.7 billion 

as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, resp
ectively. This decrease is 
reflective of a number of factors 
including decreases in net charge-
offs and delinquencies and signs of moderation in general 
economic conditions during 2010.  
 The Bancorp™s determination of the allowance for 
commercial loans is sensitive to the risk grades it assigns to these 

loans. In the event that 10% of
 commercial loans in each risk 
category would experience a downgrade of one risk category, the 

allowance for commercial loans woul
d increase by approximately 
$156 million at December 31, 2010. 
In addition, the Bancorp™s 
determination of the allowance for residential mortgage loans and 
consumer loans is sensitive to ch
anges in estimated loss rates. In 
the event that estimated loss rates would increase 10%, the 

allowance for residential mortgage loans and consumer loans 
would increase approximately $31 million and $56 million, 
respectively at December 31, 2010. As several qualitative and 

quantitative factors are considered
 in determining the ALLL, these 
sensitivity analyses do not necessarily reflect the nature and extent 

of future changes in the ALLL. They are intended to provide 
insights into the impact of adverse changes to risk grades and 
estimated loss rates and do not imply any expectation of future 

deterioration in the risk rating
s or loss rates. Given current 
processes employed by the Bancorp, management believes the risk 

grades and estimated loss rates currently assigned are appropriate. Total impaired loans consist of
 loans and leases that are 
restructured in a troubled debt 
restructuring and larger commercial 
loans included with aggregate borrower relationship balances 
exceeding $1 million that exhibi
t probable or observed credit 
weaknesses. Impaired loans are subject to individual review and 

decreased from $3.3 billion as of December 31, 2009 to $2.9 

billion as of December 31, 2010.  
The Bancorp continually reviews 
its credit administration and 
loan and lease portfolio and makes changes based on the 

performance of its products. Management discontinued the 

origination of brokered home equity products at the end of 2007, 
suspended homebuilder lending in
 the fourth quarter of 2007 and 
new commercial non-owner occupied real estate lending in 2008, 

and raised underwriting standards across both the commercial and 

consumer loan product offerings. 
   TABLE 41: ATTRIBUTION OF ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN AND 
LEASE LOSSES TO PORTFOLIO LOANS AND LEASES   
As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
2010
20092008 20072006
Allowance attributed to: 
 Commercial and industrial loans 
$1,123
1,282824 271252
Commercial mortgage loans 
597
734363 13595
Commercial construction loans 
158380252 9849
Commercial leases 
11112161 2724
Residential mortgage loans 
310375388 6751
Consumer loans  
554
660611 287247
Consumer leases 
149 55
Unallocated 
150193279 4748
Total ALLL 
$3,004
3,7492,787 937771
Portfolio loans and leases: 
 Commercial and industrial loans 
$27,191
25,68329,197 24,81320,831
Commercial mortgage loans 
10,84511,80312,502 11,86210,405
Commercial construction loans 
2,048
3,7845,114 5,5616,168
Commercial leases 
3,378
3,5353,666 3,7373,842
Residential mortgage loans 
8,956
8,0359,385 10,5408,830
Consumer loans  
24,801
23,43923,509 22,94323,204
Consumer leases 
272
500770 7971,073
Total portfolio loans and leases 
$77,491
76,77984,143 80,25374,353
Attributed allowance as
 a percent of respective portfolio loans: 
 Commercial and industrial loans 
 4.13% 
4.992.82 1.091.21
Commercial mortgage loans 
5.50
6.222.90 1.14.91
Commercial construction loans 
7.7110.044.93 1.77.80
Commercial leases 
3.29
3.421.66 .72.62
Residential mortgage loans 
3.35
4.674.13 .63.58
Consumer loans  
2.23
2.812.60 1.251.06
Consumer leases 
.37.801.17 .63.47
Unallocated (as a percent of to
tal portfolio loans and leases) 
.19.25.33 .06.06
Total portfolio loans and leases 
3.88% 
4.883.31 1.171.04
 TABLE 40: CHANGES IN ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES
  For the years ended Decembe
r 31 ($ in millions) 
2010
20092008 20072006
Balance beginning of period 
$3,749
2,787937 771744
Impact of change in accounting principle 
45-- --
Net losses charged off 
(2,328)
(2,581)(2,710) (462)(316)
Provision for loan and lease losses 
1,5383,5434,560 628343
Balance, end of year 
$3,004
3,7492,787 937771
Reserve for unfunded commitments: 
 Balance beginning of period 
294
19595 7670
Impact of change in accounting principle 
(43)-- --
Provision for unfunded commitments 
(24)99100 196
Balance, end of year 
$227
294195 9576
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  58    Fifth Third Bancorp     
   MARKET RISK MANAGEMENT 
Market risk arises from the potential for market fluctuations in 

interest rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices that may 

result in potential reductions in 
net income. Interest rate risk, a 
component of market risk, is the exposure to adverse changes in 
net interest income or financial position due to changes in interest 

rates. Management considers interest rate risk a prominent market 

risk in terms of its potential impact on earnings. Interest rate risk 

can occur for any one or more of the following reasons: 
  Assets and liabilities may mature or reprice at different times;  Short-term and long-term market interest rates may change 
by different amounts; or  
 The expected maturity of various assets or liabilities may 
shorten or lengthen as interest rates change. 
 In addition to the direct impact of interest rate changes on net 
interest income, interest rates can indirectly impact earnings 

through their effect on loan demand, credit losses, mortgage 

originations, the value of servicing rights and other sources of the 

Bancorp™s earnings. Stability of the Bancorp™s net income is largely 

dependent upon the effective management of interest rate risk. 

Management continually reviews the Bancorp™s balance sheet 

composition and earnings flows and models the interest rate risk, 
and possible actions to reduce th
is risk, given numerous possible 
future interest rate scenarios. 
 Net Interest Income Simulation Model
 The Bancorp employs a variety of measurement techniques to 

identify and manage its interest rate risk, including the use of an 

NII simulation model to analyze the sensitivity of net interest 

income to changing interest rates. The model is based on 

contractual and assumed cash flow
s and repricing characteristics 
for all of the Bancorp™s financial 
instruments and incorporates 
market-based assumptions regarding the effect of changing 

interest rates on the prepayment rates of certain assets and 
liabilities. The model also includes senior management projections 
of the future volume and pricing of each of the product lines 

offered by the Bancorp as well as other pertinent assumptions. 

Actual results may differ from these simulated results due to 

timing, magnitude and frequency of interest rate changes as well 

as changes in market conditions and management strategies. 
The Bancorp™s Executive ALCO, which includes senior 
management representatives and is accountable to the Enterprise 
Risk Management Committee, monito
rs and manages interest rate 
risk within Board approved policy limits. In addition to the risk 

management activities of ALCO, 
the Bancorp has a Market Risk 
Management function as part of ERM that provides independent 

oversight of market risk activities
. The Bancorp™s interest rate risk 
exposure is currently evaluated 
by measuring the anticipated 
change in net interest inco
me over 12-month and 24-month 
horizons assuming a 100 bp parallel ramped increase and a 200 bp 
parallel ramped increase in intere
st rates. The Fed Funds interest 
rate, targeted by the Federal Reserve at a range of 0% to 0.25%, is 

currently set at a level that would be negative in parallel ramped 

decrease scenarios; therefore, those scenarios were omitted from 

the interest rate risk analyses for December 31, 2010. In 

accordance with the current policy, the rate movements are 

assumed to occur over one year and are sustained thereafter. 
At December 31, 2010, the Bancorp™s simulated exposure to 
a change in interest rates as described above reflects moderate 
asset sensitivity in year one with increased asset sensitivity in year 

two. Table 42 shows the Bancorp's estimated net interest income 

sensitivity profile and ALCO policy limits as of December 31, 

2010. 
 
   TABLE 42: ESTIMATED NII SENSITIVITY PROFILE 
 Percent Change in NII 
(FTE) ALCO Policy Limits 
Change in Interest Rates (bp) 
12 
Months 
13 to 24  
Months 
12 
Months 
13 to 24 
 Months 
+200    1.02% 4.99 (5.00) (7.00) 
+100 0.49 2.73 - - 
 Economic Value of Equity The Bancorp employs EVE as a 
measurement tool in managing 
interest rate risk. Whereas th
e earnings simulation highlights 
exposures over a relatively short time horizon, the EVE analysis 
incorporates all cash flows over th
e estimated remaining life of all 
balance sheet and derivative positions. The EVE of the balance 

sheet, at a point in time, is defined as the discounted present value 

of asset and derivative cash fl
ows less the discounted value of 
liability cash flows. The sensitivity of EVE to changes in the level 

of interest rates is a measure of 
longer-term interest rate risk. EVE 
values only the current balance sheet and does not incorporate the 
growth assumptions used in the 
earnings simulation model. As 
with the earnings simulation mode
l, assumptions about the timing 
and variability of balance sheet cash flows are critical in the EVE 

analysis. Particularly important are the assumptions driving 

prepayments and the expected chan
ges in balances and pricing of 
the transaction deposit portfolios.
 The following table shows the 
Bancorp™s EVE sensitivity profile as of December 31, 2010. 
 TABLE 43: ESTIMATED EVE SENSITIVITY PROFILE 
Change in  Interest Rates (bp) Change in EVE ALCO Policy Limits 
+200    (1.62%) (15.0) 
+100 (0.50)  
  +25 (0.09)  
   -25  (0.13)  
 This EVE profile suggests that the Bancorp would 
experience a slight adverse effect from an initial increase in rates, 
and that the adverse impact would become greater as rates 

continue to rise. While an instantaneous shift in interest rates is 

used in this analysis to provid
e an estimate of exposure, the 
Bancorp believes that a gradual shif
t in interest rates would have a 
much more modest impact. Sin
ce EVE measures the discounted 
present value of cash flows 
over the estimated lives of 
instruments, the change in EVE does not directly correlate to the 
degree that earnings would be impacted over a shorter time 
horizon (e.g., the current fiscal year). Further, EVE does not take 

into account factors such as future balance sheet growth, changes 

in product mix, changes in yield curve relationships and changing 

product spreads that could mitigate the adverse impact of changes 

in interest rates. The NII simulation and EVE analyses do not 

necessarily include certain actions that management may 

undertake to manage this risk in response to anticipated changes 
in interest rates. The Bancorp regularly evaluates its exposures to LIBOR and 
Prime basis risks, 
nonparallel shifts in the yield curve
 and 
embedded options risk. In addition, the impact on NII and EVE 

of extreme changes in interest rates is modeled, wherein the 

Bancorp employs the use of yield curve shocks and environment-

specific scenarios. 
 Use of Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate Risk 
An integral component of the Bancorp™s interest rate risk 
management strategy is its use of derivative instruments to 

minimize significant fluctuations in
 earnings caused by changes in 
market interest rates. Examples of derivative instruments that the 

Bancorp may use as part of its 
interest rate risk management
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
         Fifth Third Bancorp    59 
strategy include interest rate swaps, interest rate floors, interest 
rate caps, forward contracts, principal only swaps, options and 

swaptions. As part of its overall risk management strategy relative to its 
mortgage banking activity, the Bancorp enters into forward 
contracts accounted for as free-standing derivatives to 
economically hedge interest rate lock commitments that are also 

considered free-standing derivatives. Additionally, the Bancorp 

economically hedges its exposure to mortgage loans held for sale. 
The Bancorp also establishes derivative contracts with major 
financial institutions to economically hedge significant exposures 

assumed in commercial customer accommodation derivative 

contracts. Generally, these contracts have similar terms in order to 
protect the Bancorp from market vo
latility. Credit risk arises from 
the possible inability of counterparties to meet the terms of their 

contracts, which the Bancorp 
minimizes through collateral 
arrangements, approvals, limits and monitoring procedures. See 

Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for 

further information on these derivatives. 
 Portfolio Loans and Leases and Interest Rate Risk
 Although the Bancorp™s portfolio loans and leases contain both 

fixed and floating/adjustable rate products, the rates of interest 

earned by the Bancorp on the outstanding balances are generally 

established for a period of time. The interest rate sensitivity of 
loans and leases is directly related
 to the length of time the rate 
earned is established. Table 44 di
splays the expected principal cash 
flows of the Bancorp™s portfolio loans and leases as of December 

31, 2010. Table 45 displays a summary of expected principal cash 

flows occurring after one 
year as of December 31, 2010. 
  Residential Mortgage Servicing Ri
ghts and Interest Rate Risk 
The net carrying amount of the residential MSR portfolio was 
$822 million and $699 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, 

respectively. The value of servic
ing rights can fluctuate sharply 
depending on changes in interest rates and other factors. 

Generally, as interest rates decline and loans are prepaid to take 
advantage of refinancing, the total value of existing servicing 
rights declines because no further servicing fees are collected on 
repaid loans. The Bancorp maintains a non-qualifying hedging 
strategy relative to its mortgage banking activity in order to 

manage a portion of the risk associated with changes in the value 

of its MSR portfolio as a result of changing interest rates. 
Mortgage rates declined during 2010 and 2009. The decrease 
in rates caused prepayment assumptions to increase and led to $36 
million in temporary impairment of servicing rights during the 

year ended December 31, 2010 compared to $24 million in 

temporary impairment in 2009. 
Servicing rights are deemed 
temporarily impaired when a borro
wer™s loan rate is distinctly 
higher than prevailing rates. Te
mporary impairment on servicing 
rights is reversed when the pr
evailing rates return to a level 
commensurate with the borrower™s loan rate. Offsetting the 
mortgage servicing rights valuat
ion, the Bancorp recognized net 
gains of $123 million and $98 million on its non-qualifying 

hedging strategy for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 

2009, respectively. The net gains from the Bancorp™s non-

qualifying hedging strategy for 2010 and 2009 include $14 million 

and $57 million, respectively, of ne
t gains on the sale of securities. 
See Note 13 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

for further discussion on servicing rights. 
 Foreign Currency Risk 
The Bancorp enters into foreign exchange derivative contracts to 

economically hedge certain foreign denominated loans. The 
derivatives are classified as free-standing instruments with the 
revaluation gain or loss being recorded in other noninterest 

income in the Consolidated Stat
ements of Income. The balance of 
the Bancorp™s foreign denominated loans at December 31, 2010 

and 2009 was approximately $283 million and $272 million, 

respectively. The Bancorp also enters into foreign exchange 

contracts for the benefit of co
mmercial customers involved in 
international trade to hedge their exposure to foreign currency 
fluctuations. The Bancorp has internal controls in place to help 
ensure excessive risk is not being taken in providing this service to 

customers. These controls include an independent determination 

of currency volatility and credit equivalent exposure on these 

contracts, counterparty credit approvals and country limits.
TABLE 44: PORTFOLIO LOAN AND LEASE PRINCIPAL CASH FLOWS 
 As of December 31, 2010 ($ in millions) Less
 than 1 year 1-5 years Over 5 years Total 
   Commercial and industrial loans $9,755 14,794 2,642 27,191 
   Commercial mortgage loans 5,414 4,390 1,041 10,845 
   Commercial construction loans 1,146 655 247 2,048 

   Commercial leases 522 1,365 1,491 3,378 
Subtotal Œ commercial 16,837 21,204 5,421 43,462 
   Residential mortgage loans 1,437 3,544 3,975 8,956 
   Home equity 1,656 4,241 5,616 11,513 
   Automobile loans 4,324 6,399 260 10,983 
   Credit card 191 1,705 - 1,896 

   Other consumer loans and leases 517 160 4 681 
Subtotal Œ consumer 8,125 16,049 9,855 34,029 
Total $24,962 37,253 15,276 77,491 
 TABLE 45: PORTFOLIO LOAN AND LEASE PRINCI
PAL CASH FLOWS OCCURRING AFTER ONE YEAR
  Interest Rate 
As of December 31, 2010 ($ in milli
ons) Fixed Floating or Adjustable 
   Commercial and industrial loans $3,350 14,086 
   Commercial mortgage loans 1,934 3,497 
   Commercial construction loans 259 643 
   Commercial leases 
2,856 - 
Subtotal - commercial 
8,399 18,226 
   Residential mortgage loans 5,127 2,392 
   Home equity 
1,472 8,385 
   Automobile loans 
6,601 58 
   Credit card 
770 935 
   Other consumer loans and leases 128 36 
Subtotal Œ consumer 
14,098 11,806 
Total 
$22,497 30,032 
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  60    Fifth Third Bancorp     
   
LIQUIDITY RISK MANAGEMENT
 The goal of liquidity management is to provide adequate funds to 

meet changes in loan and lease demand, unexpected deposit 

withdrawals and other contractual obligations. Mitigating liquidity 

risk is accomplished by maintaining liquid assets in the form of 

investment securities, maintaining sufficient unused borrowing 
capacity in the debt markets and delivering consistent growth in 
core deposits. A summary of certain obligations and commitments 

to make future payments under contracts is included in Note 18 

of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
The Bancorp maintains a contingency funding plan that 
assesses the liquidity needs under various scenarios of market 

conditions, asset growth and credit rating downgrades. The plan 

includes liquidity stress testin
g which measures various sources 
and uses of funds under the different scenarios. The contingency 
plan provides for ongoing monitoring of unused borrowing 

capacity and available sources of 
contingent liquidity to prepare 
for unexpected liquidity needs an
d to cover unanticipated events 
that could affect liquidity. 
The Bancorp has approximately $6.8 billion of unsecured 
long-term debt outstanding as of December 31, 2010. Long-term 

debt with a principal balance of $15 million and a carrying value 
of $14 million will mature during 2011. 
 Sources of Funds 
The Bancorp™s primary sources of funds relate to cash flows from 

loan and lease repayments, payments from securities related to 

sales and maturities, the sale or securitization of loans and leases 

and funds generated by core deposits, in addition to the use of 

public and private debt offerings. 
Projected contractual maturities from loan and lease 
repayments are included in Table 44 of the Market Risk 

Management section. Of the $15.4 billion of securities in the 

available-for-sale portfolio at 
December 31, 2010, $4.0 billion in 
principal and interest is expected
 to be received in the next 12 
months and an additional $2.5 billion is expected to be received in 

the next 13 to 24 months. For further information on the 

Bancorp™s available-for-sale s
ecurities portfolio, see the 
Investment Securities section of the MD&A.  
Asset-driven liquidity is provided by the Bancorp™s ability to 
sell or securitize loan and leas
e assets. In order to reduce the 
exposure to interest rate fluctuat
ions and to manage liquidity, the 
Bancorp has developed securitization and sale procedures for 

several types of interest-sensitive assets. A majority of the long-

term, fixed-rate single-family residential mortgage loans 

underwritten according to FHLMC 
or FNMA guidelines are sold 
for cash upon origination. Additional assets such as jumbo fixed-
rate residential mortgages, certain commercial loans, home equity 

lines and loans, automobile loan
s and other consumer loans are 
also capable of being securitized or sold. For the years ended 

December 31, 2010 and 2009, loans 
totaling $18.2 billion and $21.8 billion, respectively, were sold, securitized or transferred 

off-balance sheet. For further information on the transfer of 

financial assets, see Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated 
Financial Statements. 
Core deposits have historically provided the Bancorp with a 
sizeable source of relatively stable and low cost funds. The 

Bancorp™s average core deposits and shareholders™ equity funded 

80% of its average total assets during 2010 compared to 72% 

during 2009. In addition to core 
deposit funding, the Bancorp also 
accesses a variety of other short-term and long-term funding 
sources, which include the use of the FHLB system. Certificates 
of deposit carrying a balance of $100,000 or more and deposits in 

the Bancorp™s foreign branch lo
cated in the Cayman Islands are 
wholesale funding tools utilized to fund asset growth. 

Management does not rely on any one source of liquidity and 

manages availability in response to changing balance sheet needs.  
The Bancorp previously participated in the FDIC™s TAG 
program that was adopted on November 21, 2008 under EESA. 
The TAG program provides insurance to any funds held in 
qualifying noninterest-bearing tran
saction accounts without limit. 
On April 13, 2010, the FDIC adopted an interim final rule 

extending the TAG program for six months, through December 

31, 2010, with the possibility of extending the program an 

additional twelve months wit
hout further rulemaking. As a 
participant in the TAG program, the Bancorp was required to 

decide whether to opt out of the program on or before April 30, 
2010. The Bancorp opted out of the TAG program effective July 
1, 2010. After this date, customer accounts that qualified under 

the TAG program are no longer guaranteed in full, but are insured 

up to $250,000 under the FDIC™s general deposit insurance rules. 
The Bancorp has a shelf registration in place with the SEC 
permitting ready access to the public debt markets and qualifies as 

a ﬁwell-known seasoned issuerﬂ un
der SEC rules. As of December 
31, 2010, $8.8 billion of debt or other securities were available for 
issuance from this shelf registra
tion under the current Bancorp™s 
Board of Directors™ authorizations, however, access to these 

markets may depend on market c
onditions. The Bancorp also has 
$19.0 billion of funding available for issuance through private 

offerings of debt securities purs
uant to its bank note program and 
currently has approximately $25.
3 billion of borrowing capacity 
available through secured borrowi
ng sources including the FHLB 
and FRB.  On January 25, 2011, the Bancorp raised $1.7 billion in new 
common equity through the is
suance of 121,428,572 shares of 
common stock in an underwriting offering at an initial price of 

$14.00 per share. Additionally, on January 25, 2011, the Bancorp 

sold $1.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of 3.625% Senior 

Notes due January 25, 2016. Note 32 of the Notes to 

Consolidated Financial Statements provides additional 

information regarding the common equity and senior notes 
offerings.  
Credit Ratings 

The cost and availability of financing to the Bancorp are impacted 

by its credit ratings. A downgrade to the Bancorp™s credit ratings 

could affect its ability to access the credit markets and increase its 

borrowing costs, thereby adversely impacting the Bancorp™s 

financial condition and liquidity. Key factors in maintaining high 
credit ratings include a stable and diverse earnings stream, strong 
TABLE 46: AGENCY RATINGS 
    
As of February 28, 2011 Moody™s Standard and Poor™s Fitch DBRS 
Fifth Third Bancorp:   
Short-term P-2 A-2 F1 R-1L 
Senior debt Baa1 BBB A- AL 

Subordinated debt Baa2 BBB- BBB+ BBBH 
Fifth Third Bank:     
Short-term P-2 A-2 F1 R-1L 

Long-term deposit A3 No rating A A 

Senior debt 
A3 BBB+ A- A 
Subordinated debt Baa1 BBB BBB+ A (low) 
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
         Fifth Third Bancorp    61 
credit quality, strong capital ratios and diverse funding sources, in 
addition to disciplined liquidi
ty monitoring procedures. 
The Bancorp™s senior debt credit ratings are summarized in 
Table 46. The ratings reflect th
e ratings agencies view on the 
Bancorp™s capacity to meet financial commitments.* Additional 
information on senior debt credit ratings is as follows: 
 Moody™s ﬁBaa1ﬂ rating is considered medium-grade 
obligations and is the fourth
 highest ranking within its 
overall classification system; 
 Standard & Poor™s ﬁBBBﬂ rating indicates the obligor™s 
capacity to meet its financial commitment is adequate 
and is the fourth highest 
ranking within its overall 
classification system;  Fitch Ratings™ ﬁA-ﬂ rating is considered high credit 
quality and is the third highest ranking within its overall 
classification system; and  DBRS Ltd.™s ﬁA (low)ﬂ rating is considered satisfactory 
credit quality and is the third highest ranking within its 
overall classification system. 
 Additionally, the Bancorp™s subsidiary bank (Fifth Third Bank) 
also receives independent credit ratings. On November 1, 2010, 
Moody™s downgraded ten large regional banks, including Fifth 

Third Bank, due to the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Act 

signaled the government™s intent 
to limit support for individual 
banks, thus reducing Moody™
s support assumptions for these 
banks. Fifth Third Bank™s credit ratings for Short-Term, Long-

Term Deposit, Senior Debt and Subordinated Debt were 

downgraded to P-2, A3, A3 and B
aa1, respectively, from P-1, A2, 
A2 and A3, respectively. Additionally, Moody™s changed Fifth 
Third Bancorp and Fifth Third Bank™s outlook from negative to 

stable. During 2010, DBRS Investors Service downgraded the 

long-term debt rating and deposit ratings for the Bancorp™s 

subsidiary to ﬁAﬂ from ﬁAHﬂ. 
* As an investor, you should be aware that a security rating is not 
a recommendation to buy, sell or hol
d securities, that it may be 
subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning 

rating organization and that each
 rating should be evaluated 
independently of any other rating. 
 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
  Management, including the Bancorp™s Board of Directors, 

regularly reviews the Bancorp™s capital position to help ensure it is 
appropriately positioned under va
rious operating environments.
  2009 Capital Actions 
On May 7, 2009, the Bancorp a
nnounced its SCAP results which 
indicated that the Bancorp™s Tier 1 common equity would be 

required to be augmented to maintain a capital buffer above the 

newly required four percent threshold of the Tier 1 common 

equity ratio under the more adverse scenario of the assessment. 
The total amount required, prior to considering activities by the 
Bancorp since the end of the fourth quarter of 2008, was $2.6 
billion.   
After considering such activities, primarily the Processing 
Business Sale, the indicated additional net Tier I common equity 

required was $1.1 billion. To address the SCAP results the 
Bancorp undertook a number of ca
pital actions during the second 
quarter of 2009. The Bancorp completed a $1 billion common 

stock offering and issued approximately 158 million shares at an 

average price of $6.33. In addition, the Bancorp completed an 

exchange of a portion of its Series G preferred stock for 

2,158.8272 shares of its common stock, no par value, and $8,250 

in cash, for each set of 250 validly tendered and accepted 

depositary shares. The Bancorp issued approximately 60 million 
shares of common stock and paid $230 million in cash in 
exchange for 7 million depositary shares. After settlement of the 

exchange offer, 4,112,750 deposita
ry shares representing 16,451 
shares of Series G preferred stock remained outstanding. As a 

result of this exchange, the Bancorp increased its common equity 

by $441 million. The Bancorp also sold its Visa, Inc. Class B 

common shares resulting in an additional $187 million benefit to 

equity. 
 2011 Capital Actions 
On January 25, 2011, the Bancorp raised $1.7 billion in new 
common equity through the is
suance of 121,428,572 shares of 
common stock in an underwriting offering at an initial price of 

$14.00 per share. On January 24, 2011, the underwriters exercised 

their option to purchase an additional 12,142,857 shares at the 

offering price of $14.00 per share. In connection with this 
exercise, the Bancorp elected that all such additional shares be 
sold and the Bancorp entered into
 a forward sale agreement which 
resulted in a final net payment of 959,821 shares on February 4, 

2011. On February 2, 2011, the Bancorp redeemed all 136,320 
shares of its Series F Preferred Stock held by the U.S. Treasury 

totaling $3.4 billion. The Bancorp used the net proceeds from the 

common stock and senior notes offerings previously described 
and other funds to redeem the Series F Preferred Stock. 
In connection with the redemption of the Series F Preferred 
Stock, the Bancorp accelerated the accretion of the remaining 

issuance discount on the Series F Preferred Stock and recorded a 

corresponding reduction in retained earnings of $153 million.  
Dividends of $15 million were paid on February 2, 2011 
when the Series F Preferred Stock was redeemed. The Bancorp 

notified the U.S. Treasury on February 17, 2011, of its intention to 
negotiate for the purchase of th
e warrants issued to the U.S. 
Treasury in connection with the CPP preferred stock investment. 
These transactions will be reflected in the Bancorp™s 
consolidated financial statements for the quarter ended March 31, 

2011. Note 32 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

provides additional information regarding the redemption of the 

Series F Preferred Stock and the January 2011 common stock 

offering. TABLE 47: CAPITAL RATIOS     
As of December 31 ($ in millions) 
2010
20092008 20072006
Average equity as a percent of average assets 
12.22%               
11.36
 8.78 9.359.32
Tangible equity as a percent of tangible assets 
10.429.717.86 6.147.95
Tangible common equity as a percent of tangible assets 
7.04
6.454.23 6.147.95
Tier I capital 
$13,965
13,42811,924 8,9248,625
Total risk-based capital 
18,17317,64816,646 11,73311,385
Risk-weighted assets 
100,193
100,933112,622 115,529102,823
Regulatory capital ratios:  
 Tier I capital 
13.94% 
13.3010.59 7.728.39
Total risk-based capital 
18.1417.4814.78 10.1611.07
Tier I leverage 
12.7912.3410.27 8.508.44
Tier I common equity 
7.50
6.994.37 5.728.22
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  62   Fifth Third Bancorp     
    
Capital Ratios 
The Federal Reserve Board establis
hed quantitative measures that 
assign risk weightings to assets and off-balance sheet items and 

also define and set minimum regu
latory capital requirements (risk-
based capital ratios). Additionally
, the guidelines define ﬁwell-
capitalizedﬂ ratios for Tier I and total risk-based capital as 6% and 

10%, respectively. The Bancorp ex
ceeded these ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ 
ratios for all periods presented. 
Additionally, although the assessed 
companies under SCAP were only
 required to demonstrate that 
they met the 4% Tier I common equity ratio requirement for the 

period evaluated in the SCAP, it is reasonable to assume the 

supervisory agencies expect the 19 large bank holding companies 
assessed under the SCAP stress tests to maintain their Tier I 
common equity ratio above 4%, although no formal requirement 

exists.  
       On November 17, 2010, the Federal Reserve issued a revised 

temporary addendum to Supervision and Regulation letter 09-4, 

"Dividend Increases and Other Capital Distributions for the 19 

Supervisory Capital Assessment Program Firms." This letter 

requires the 19 financial institutions including the Bancorp, to 
undergo a review of their capital planning processes and plans 
regarding capital redistribution and absorption activity. As part of 
this review, the Bancorp was required to submit a comprehensive 

capital plan by January 7, 2011, that demonstrated its ability to 

withstand losses under ﬁadverseﬂ economic conditions over the 

next two years. The Bancorp submitted all of its documents 

according to the regulatory timeline. The results of this assessment 

process are not expected to be made public. 
Current provisions of the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act 
will phase out the inclusion of certain trust preferred securities as 

a component of Tier I capital 
beginning January 1, 2013. At 
December 31, 2010, the Bancorp™s Tier I capital included $2.8 

billion of trust preferred securities
 representing approximately 276 
bp of risk-weighted assets. 
The Bancorp manages the adequacy of its capital, including 
Tier I common equity, by conducting ongoing internal stress tests 
and ensuring the results are properly considered in capital 
planning. It is the intent of the 
Bancorp™s capital planning process 
to ensure that the Bancorp™s capital positions remain in excess of 
well-capitalized minimums as defi
ned by the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System in the ﬁCapital Adequacy 

Guidelines for Bank Holdin
g Companies,ﬂ and any other 
regulatory requirements. The Bancorp™s Tier I common equity 

ratio was 7.50% as of December 31, 2010. 
 Dividend Policy and Stock Repurchase Program 
The Bancorp™s common stock dividend policy and stock 

repurchase program reflect its ea
rnings outlook, desired payout 
ratios, the need to maintain adequate capital levels, alternative 

investment opportunities and the n
eed to comply with safe and 
sound banking practices as well 
as meet regulatory expectations. 
In each of the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the 

Bancorp paid dividends per common share of $0.04.  
The Bancorp issued $3.4 billi
on in senior preferred stock 
(Series F) and related warrants to the U.S. Treasury as part of the 

CPP. Upon issuance, the Bancorp agreed to limit dividends to 

common stock holders to the quarterly dividend rate paid prior to 

October 14, 2008, which was $0.15. This restriction was in effect 

until the earlier of December 31, 2011 or the date upon which the 

Series F senior preferred shares were redeemed in whole or 

transferred to an unaffiliated thir
d party. On February 2, 2011, the 
Bancorp repurchased all $3.4 billion 
of its Series F Preferred Stock held by the U.S. Treasury. 
The Bancorp™s repurchase of common stock is shown in 
Table 48. The Bancorp™s Board of Directors had previously 

authorized management to purchase 30 million shares of the 

Bancorp™s common stock through the open market or in any 

private transaction. The authoriz
ation does not include specific 
price targets or an expiration date. Under the agreement with the 
U.S. Treasury, as part of the CPP,
 the Bancorp is restricted in its 
repurchases of its common stock. 
This restriction was in effect 
until the earlier of December 31, 2011 or the date upon which the 

Series F senior preferred shares were redeemed in whole or 

transferred to an unaffiliated thir
d party. On February 2, 2011, the 
Bancorp repurchased all $3.4 billion 
of its Series F Preferred Stock held by the U.S. Treasury. 
 TABLE 48: SHARE REPURCHASES 
   For the years ended December 31           
2010 
                 2009                  2008 
Shares authorized for repurchase at January 1 
19,201,518
19,201,518 19,201,518
Additional authorizations 
             -
             -   -
Shares repurchases (a) 
             -
             -               -
Shares authorized for repurchase at December 31 
19,201,518
19,201,518 19,201,518
Average price paid per share  
N/AN/A N/A(a) Excludes 333,808
, 265,802 and 63,270 shares repurchased during 
2010
, 2009 and 2008, respectively, in connection with variou
s employee compensation plans. These repurchases are not 
included in the calculation for average price paid and do not co
unt against the maximum number of shares that may yet be repurc
hased under the Board of Directors™ authorization. 
 MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
         Fifth Third Bancorp    63 
OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS In the ordinary course of business, the Bancorp enters into 
financial transactions to extend credit and various forms of 

commitments and guarantees that 
may be considered off-balance 
sheet arrangements. These transactions involve varying elements 
of market, credit and liquidity risk.  

 
Residential Mortgage Loan Sales 

Conforming residential mortgage loans sold to unrelated third 

parties are generally sold with representation and warranty 

recourse provisions. Such provisions include the loan™s 

compliance with applicable loan
 criteria, including certain 
documentation standards per agreements with the unrelated third 
parties. Additional reasons for the Bancorp having to repurchase 

the loans include appraisal standa
rds with the collateral, fraud 
related to the loan application and the rescission of mortgage 

insurance. Under these provisions, the Bancorp is required to 

repurchase any previously sold lo
an for which the representation 
or warranty of the Bancorp proves to be inaccurate, incomplete or 

misleading. As of December 31, 2010, and 2009, the Bancorp 
maintained reserves related to
 these loans sold with the 
representation and warranty recourse provisions totaling $85 

million and $37 million, respectively.  
For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, the 
Bancorp paid $47 million and $19 million, respectively, in the 

form of make whole payments 
and repurchased approximately $83 million and $61 million, respectively, of loans to satisfy third 

party representation and warranty claims. Total repurchase 
demand requests during 2010 were $365 million compared to 
$210 million during 2009. Total outstanding repurchase demand 

inventory was $162 million at December 31, 2010, compared to 

$119 million at December 31, 2009.  
The Bancorp previously sold certain residential mortgage 
loans in the secondary market with 
credit recourse. In the event of 
any customer default, pursuant to
 the credit recourse provided, 
the Bancorp is required to reimburse the third party. The 
maximum amount of credit risk in the event of nonperformance 
by the underlying borrowers is e
quivalent to the total outstanding 
balance. In the event of nonperformance, the Bancorp has rights 

to the underlying collateral value securing the loan. At December 

31, 2010 and 2009, the outstandin
g balances on these loans sold 
with credit recourse were approximately $916 million and $1.1 

billion, respectively. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Bancorp 

maintained an estimated credit loss reserve on these loans sold 
with credit recourse of approxim
ately $16 million and $21 million, 
respectively, recorded in other liabilities in the Consolidated 

Balance Sheets. To determine the credit loss reserve, the Bancorp 

used an approach that is consistent with its overall approach in 

estimating credit losses for vari
ous categories of residential 
mortgage loans held in its loan portfolio. For further information 

on residential mortgage loans sold with recourse, see Note 18 of 

the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  Private Mortgage Insurance 

For certain mortgage loans originated by the Bancorp, borrowers 

may be required to obtain PMI provided by third-party insurers. 

In some instances, these insurers cede a portion of the PMI 

premiums to the Bancorp, and the Bancorp provides reinsurance 

coverage within a specified range of the total PMI coverage. The 

Bancorp™s reinsurance coverage typically ranges from 5% to 10% 
of the total PMI coverage. During the second quarter of 2009, the 
Bancorp suspended the practice of providing reinsurance of 

private mortgage insurance for newl
y originated mortgage loans.  The Bancorp™s maximum exposure in the event of 
nonperformance by the underlying borrowers is equivalent to the 
Bancorp™s total outstanding reinsurance coverage, which was $122 
million and $182 million, respectively, at December 31, 2010 and 

2009. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Bancorp 
maintained a reserve of $42 million and $44 million, respectively, 
related to exposures within the reinsurance portfolio. The reserve 

was flat year over year as increases to the reserve resulting from 

estimated losses outpacing paid claims were offset by a decrease 

relating to a reinsurance agreemen
t termination. In the third 
quarter of 2010, the Bancorp allowed one of its third-party 

insurers to terminate its reinsu
rance agreement with the Bancorp. 
This resulted in the Bancorp releasing collateral to the insurer in 
the form of investment securities and other assets with a carrying 
value of $19 million, and the insurer assuming the Bancorp™s 

obligations under the reinsurance agreement, resulting in a 

decrease to the Bancorp™s reserve liability of $20 million and a 

decrease to the Bancorp™s maximum exposure of $53 million. 
 Loan Securitizations 

The Bancorp utilizes securitization 
trusts, formed by independent 
third parties to facilitate the secu
ritization process of residential 
mortgage loans, certain autom
obile loans and other consumer 
loans. During 2008, the Bancorp so
ld $2.7 billion of automobile 
loans in three separate transacti
ons. Each transaction isolated the 
related loans through the use of a 
securitization trust or a conduit, 
formed as QSPEs, to facilitat
e the securitization process in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The QSPEs issued asset-backed 

securities with varying levels 
of credit subordination and payment 
priority. The investors in these securities have no credit recourse 

to the Bancorp™s other assets for 
failure of debtors to pay when 
due. During 2008 and 2009, required repurchases of previously 
transferred automobile loans from
 the QSPE were immaterial to 
the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements. For further 

information on these automobile securitizations, see Note 12 of 

the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Upon adoption on January 1, 20
10 of the FASB guidance on 
the accounting for QSPEs and VIEs, the Bancorp determined it 

was the primary beneficiary (and therefore consolidator) of these 

QSPEs. Refer to Note 1 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements for further details regarding the guidance and the 
related impact of adoption by the Bancorp.  

 
Commercial Loan Sales to a QSPE Through 2008, the Bancorp had transferred at par, subject to 
credit recourse, certain primarily floating-rate, short-term 

investment grade commercial loans to a VIE, which prior to 
January 1, 2010, was an unconsolidated QSPE that was wholly 
owned by an independent third-party. Generally, the loans 
transferred to the VIE provided a lower yield due to their 

investment grade nature and, therefore, transferring these loans 

allowed the Bancorp to reduce its interest rate exposure to these 

lower yielding loan assets while maintaining the customer 

relationships. The outstanding balance of these loans at December 

31, 2009 was $771 million. These loan
s may have been transferred 
back to the Bancorp upon the occurrence of certain specified 
events. These events included borrower default on the loans 
transferred, ineligible loans transf
erred by the Bancorp to the VIE, 
the inability of the VIE to issue commercial paper, and in certain 

circumstances, bankruptcy preferences initiated against underlying 

borrowers. The maximum amount of credit risk in the event of 

nonperformance by the underlying borrowers was approximately 

equivalent to the total outstanding balance. At December 31, 

2009, the Bancorp™s loss reserve related to the credit enhancement 
provided to the VIE was $45 million and was recorded in other 
liabilities in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheets. During the year 
MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  64    Fifth Third Bancorp 
ended December 31, 2009, the VIE did not transfer any loans 
back to the Bancorp as a result of a credit event.  
The VIE issued commercial paper and used the proceeds to 
fund the acquisition of commercial loans transferred to it by the 

Bancorp. The ability of the VIE to issue commercial paper was a 
function of general market conditi
ons and the credit rating of the 
liquidity provider. In the even
t the VIE was unable to issue 
commercial paper, the Bancorp agreed to provide liquidity 

support in the form of a line of credit to the VIE and the 

repurchase of assets from the VIE. As of December 31, 2009, the 

LAPA was $1.4 billion. In addition to the liquidity support 

options discussed above, the Bancorp also purchased commercial 

paper issued by the VIE. Beginning in 2008 and continuing 
through the year ended December 31, 2009, dislocation in the 
short-term funding market caused
 the VIE difficulty in obtaining 
sufficient funding through the issu
ance of commercial paper. As a 
result, the Bancorp purchased commercial paper throughout 2009. 

As of December 31, 2009, the Bancorp held $805 million of asset-
backed commercial paper issued by the VIE, representing 87% of 
the total commercial paper issued by the VIE. Effective January 1, 2010, with the adoption of guidance 
amending the accounting for QSPEs and the consolidation of 

VIEs, the Bancorp determined it was the primary beneficiary (and 

therefore consolidator) of this VIE. Refer to Note 1 of the Notes 

to Consolidated Financial Statements for further details regarding 

the guidance and the related impact of adoption by the Bancorp.
  MANAGEMENT™S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
   Fifth Third Bancorp    65     
CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS
 AND OTHER COMMITMENTS
 The Bancorp has certain obligations and commitments to make 
future payments under contract
s. The aggregate contractual 
obligations and commitments at
 December 31, 2010 are shown in 
Table 49. As of December 31, 2010, the Bancorp has unrecognized 
tax benefits that, if recognized, wo
uld impact the effective tax rate 
in future periods. Due to the uncertainty of the amounts to be 
ultimately paid as well as the timi
ng of such payments, all uncertain 
tax liabilities that have not been paid have been excluded from the 

Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments table. For 
further detail on the impact of income taxes see Note 21 of the 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
. (a)   Includes demand, interest checking, savings, money market
 and foreign office deposits. For additional information, see th
e Deposits discussion in the Balance Sheet Analysis section of 
MD&A. 
(b)    Includes other time and certificates $100,000 and over. Fo
r additional information, see the Deposits discussion in the B
alance Sheet Analysis section of MD&A. 
(c) In the banking industry, interest-bearing
 obligations are principally used to fund
 interest-earning assets. As such, intere
st charges on contractual obli
gations were excluded from 
reported amounts, as the potential cash outflows would have corr
esponding cash inflows from inte
rest-earning assets. See Note 1
7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
for additional information on these debt instruments. 
(d) See Note 14 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statemen
ts for additional information on forward contracts to sell resid
ential mortgage loans. 
(e)  Includes federal funds purchased and borr
owings with an original maturity of l
ess than one year. For additional informatio
n, see Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial 
Statements. 
(f) Includes rental commitments. 

(g)  Includes low-income housing, historic
 tax investments and 
market tax credits. 
(h)    See Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on pension obligations. 
(i)     Represents agreements to purcha
se goods or services and includes commitments to various general contractors for work re
lated to banking center construction. 
(j)     Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend, typically having fixed expiration dates or other termination claus
es that may require payment of a fee. Many of the commitments    
to extend credit may expire without being drawn upon. The tota
l commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash flo
w requirements. For additional information, see 
Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
(k)   Letters of credit are conditional co
mmitments issued to guarantee the performanc
e of a customer to a third party. For add
itional information, see Note 18 of the Notes to Consolidated 
Financial Statements. 
  TABLE 49: CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND OTHER
COMMITMENTS
  As of December 31, 2010
 ($ in millions) 
Less than 
        1 year 1-3 years3-5 years 
Greater than       5 years Total
Contractually obligated payments due by period: 
 Deposits without a stated maturity 
(a)
 $69,632-- -69,632
Time deposits 
(b) 
7,83130874 3,80312,016
Long-term debt 
(c)
 142,519599 6,4269,558
Forward contracts to sell mortgage loans 
(d)
 6,389-- -6,389
Short-term borrowings 
(e) 1,853-- -1,853
Noncancelable lease obligations 
(f) 91170154 454869
Partnership investment commitments 
(g) 1548824 20286
Pension obligations 
(h) 193733 70159
Purchase obligations 
(i)
 662917 -112
Capital lease obligations  1417- 132
Total contractually obligated payments due by period $86,0633,168901 10,774100,906
Other commitments by expiration period:  
Commitments to extend credit 
(j)
 $28,44211,1904,195 4343,870
Letters of credit (k)
 2,3672,704229 2165,516
Total other commitments by expiration period $30,80913,8944,424 25949,386
 MANAGEMENT™S ASSESSMENT AS TO THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 
 66    Fifth Third Bancorp     
 The Bancorp conducted an evaluation, under the supervision and wi
th the participation of the Bancorp™s management, including th
e Bancorp™s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of 
the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Bancorp™
s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-
15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act). Based on the foregoing
, as of the 
end of the period covered by this report, the Bancorp™s Chief 
Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the 
Bancorp™s disclosure controls and procedures were effective, in all material respects, to ensure that in
formation required to be disclose
d in the reports the 
Bancorp files and submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, pro
cessed, summarized and reported 
as and when required and infor
mation is 
accumulated and communicated to
 management on a timely basis. 
The management of Fifth Third Bancorp is responsible for establis
hing and maintaining adequate in
ternal control, designed to pr
ovide 
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporti
ng and the preparation of financial statements for external 
purposes in 
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the 
United States of America. The Bancorp™s management assessed the
 effectiveness of the Bancorp™s internal control over financial re
porting as of December 31, 2010. Management™s assessment is ba
sed on the criteria established in the 
Internal Control Š Integrated Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsor
ing Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission and was designed to provide reasonable assurance that 
the Bancorp maintained effective internal control over financi
al reporting as of December 31, 2010. Based on this assessment, management belie
ves that the Bancorp maintained effective internal control o
ver financial reporting as of December 31, 2010. The Bancorp™s independent regist
ered public accounting firm, that audited the Bancorp™s cons
olidated 
financial statements included in this annual report, has issued
 an audit report on our intern
al control over financial reportin
g as of December 
31, 2010. This report appears on page 67 of the annual report. 
The Bancorp™s management also conducted an evaluation of internal 
control over financial reporting to determine whether any cha
nges 
occurred during the year covered by this report that have materi
ally affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, t
he Bancorp™s internal 
control over financial reporting. Based on this evaluation, there has been no such chan
ge during the year covered by this repor
t.    Kevin T. Kabat      
President and Chief Executive Officer  

February 28, 2011  
     Daniel T. Poston 
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

February 28, 2011 
 REPORTS OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
       Fifth Third Bancorp    67 
To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Fifth Third Bancorp: 
We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of 
Fifth Third Bancorp and subsidiaries (the ﬁBancorpﬂ) as of Dec
ember 31, 2010, 
based on criteria established in 
Internal Control Š Integrated Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsori
ng Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission. The Bancorp's management is responsible for maintainin
g effective internal control ov
er financial reporting and for
 its assessment 
of the effectiveness of internal control ov
er financial reporting, included in the acco
mpanying Management™s Assessment as to t
he Effectiveness 
of Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is
 to express an opinion on the Bancorp's internal control ove
r financial reporting based on our audit. 
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Pu
blic Company Accounting Oversigh
t Board (United States). Those
 standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtai
n reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control ov
er financial 
reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit incl
uded obtaining an understanding of internal control over finan
cial reporting, 
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and 
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal c
ontrol based on the 
assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we consid
ered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit 
provides a 
reasonable basis for our opinion. 
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a proce
ss designed by, or under the su
pervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing 
similar functions, and effected by the company's board of dir
ectors, management, and other personnel to provid
e reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the prepar
ation of financial 
statements for external purposes in accord
ance with generally accepted accounting pr
inciples. A company's internal control over financial 
reporting includes those policies and procedur
es that (1) pertain to the maintenance of
 records that, in reasonable detail, acc
urately and fairly 
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of th
e company; (2) provide reasonable a
ssurance that transactions are 
recorded as necessary 
to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
 generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts an
d expenditures of 
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations
 of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide r
easonable 
assurance regarding prevention or timely dete
ction of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
 disposition of the company's assets tha
t could have a 
material effect on the financial statements. 
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over 
financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or imp
roper management override of controls, material mi
sstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basi
s. Also, 
projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the intern
al control over financial reporting
 to future periods are subje
ct to the risk that the 
controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions
, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedur
es may 
deteriorate. In our opinion, the Bancorp maintained, in 
all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of Dec
ember 31, 2010, 
based on the criteria established in 
Internal Control Š Integrated Framework
 issued by the Committee of Sponsor
ing Organizations of the Treadway 
Commission.  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the 
Public Company Accounting Oversi
ght Board (United States), the 
consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended 
December 31, 2010 of the Bancorp and our report dated February 2
8, 2011 
expressed an unqualified opinion on thos
e consolidated financial statements. 
    Cincinnati, Ohio 
February 28, 2011  To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Fifth Third Bancorp: 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of 
Fifth Third Bancorp and subsidiaries (the ﬁBancorpﬂ) as of Dece
mber 31, 
2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of income, e
quity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the per
iod ended 
December 31, 2010. These consolidated financ
ial statements are the responsibility of th
e Bancorp's management. Our responsibili
ty is to express 
an opinion on these consolidated fina
ncial statements based on our audits. 
We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the 
Public Company Accounting Oversi
ght Board (United States). Thos
e standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
 reasonable assurance about whet
her the financial statements are 
free of material 
misstatement. An audit includes examining,
 on a test basis, evidence supporting the 
amounts and disclosures in the financial st
atements. An audit 
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and sign
ificant estimates made by manag
ement, as well as evaluating the 
overall financial 
statement presentation. We believe that our audi
ts provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
In our opinion, such consolidat
ed financial statements present fairly, in all ma
terial respects, the financial position of Fift
h Third Bancorp 
and subsidiaries at December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the results of th
eir operations and their cash 
flows for each of the three 
years in the period 
ended December 31, 2010, in conformity with accounting principl
es generally accepted in the United States of America. 
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Pu
blic Company Accounting Oversigh
t Board (United States), the Ba
ncorp™s 
internal control over financial reporting as of Decemb
er 31, 2010, based on the criteria established in 
Internal ControlŠIntegrated Framework 
issued 
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Co
mmission and our report dated February 28, 2011 expressed an unq
ualified 
opinion on the Bancorp's internal 
control over financial reporting. 
    Cincinnati, Ohio 
February 28, 2011 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 68    Fifth Third Bancorp 
 As of December 31 ($ in millions, except share data) 
20102009Assets 
  Cash and due from banks 
(a) $2,159
2,318 Available-for-sale and other securities 
(b) 15,414
18,213 Held-to-maturity securities 
(c) 353355 Trading securities 
294355 Other short-term investments 
(a)
 1,5153,369 Loans held for sale 
(d) 2,2162,067 Portfolio loans and leases: 
      Commercial and industrial loans 
27,191
25,683     Commercial mortgage loans 
(a)
 10,845
11,803     Commercial construction loans 
2,0483,784     Commercial leases 
3,3783,535     Residential mortgage loans 
(e) 8,9568,035     Home equity 
(a) 11,513
12,174    Automobile loans 
(a) 10,983
8,995    Credit card 
1,8961,990    Other consumer loans and leases 
681780Portfolio loans and leases 
77,491
76,779Allowance for loan and lease losses 
(a)
 (3,004)(3,749)Portfolio loans and leases, net 
74,487
73,030Bank premises and equipment 
2,3892,400Operating lease equipment 
479499Goodwill 
2,4172,417Intangible assets 
62106Servicing rights 
822700Other assets 
(a)
 8,4007,551Total Assets 
$111,007
113,380 
Liabilities   Deposits: 
      Demand 
$21,413
19,411     Interest checking 
18,560
19,935     Savings  
20,903
17,898    Money market 
5,0354,431     Other time 
7,72812,466    Certificates - $100,000 and over 
4,2877,700    Foreign office and other 
3,7222,464Total deposits 
81,648
84,305Federal funds purchased 
279182Other short-term borrowings 
1,5741,415Accrued taxes, interest and expenses 
889773Other liabilities 
(a) 2,9792,701Long-term debt 
(a) 9,55810,507Total Liabilities 96,927
99,883Equity   Common stock 
(f) 1,779 1,779 Preferred stock
 (g)
 3,6543,609 Capital surplus 
(h)
 1,7151,743Retained earnings 
6,7196,326 Accumulated other comprehensive income  
314241Treasury stock 
(130)(201)Total Bancorp shareholders™ equity 
(i) 14,051
13,497Noncontrolling interest 
29-Total Equity 14,080
13,497 Total Liabilities and Equity 
$111,007
113,380 
(a) At December 31, 2010, $52 of cash, $7 of other short-term investments, $29 of commercial mortgage loans, $241 of home equit
y loans, $648 of automobile loans, ($14) of allowance 
for loan and lease losses, $7 of other assets, $12 of other liabilities and $692 of long-term debt from consolidated VIEs are i
ncluded in their respective Balance Sheet captions above. 
See Note 12. 
(b) Amortized cost of 
$14,919
 and $17,879 at 
December 31, 2010 
and 2009, respectively. 
(c) Fair value of 
$353 
and $355 at 
December 31, 2010 
and 2009, respectively. 
(d) Includes 
$1,892 
and $1,470 of residential mortgage loans held for sale measured at fair value at 
December 31, 2010
 and 2009, respectively. 
(e) Includes 
$46 
and $26 of residential mortgage loans measured at fair value at 
December 31, 2010
 and 2009, respectively. 
(f) Common shares: Stated value $2.22 per share; authorized 2,000,000,000; outstanding at
 December 31, 2010 Œ 796,272,522 (excludes 5,231,666 treasury shares)
 and December 31, 
2009 Œ 795,068,164 (excludes 6,436,024 treasury shares).  
(g) 317,680 shares of undesignated no par value preferred stock are authorized of which none had been issued; 5.0% cumulative S
eries F perpetual preferred stock with a $25,000 
liquidation preference: 
136,320 issued and outstanding at December 31, 2010
 and December 31, 2009; 8.5% non
-cumulative Series G convertibl
e (into 2,159.8272 common shares) 
perpetual preferred stock with a $25,000 liquidation preference: 46,000 authorized, 
16,451
 issued and outstanding at
 December 31, 2010
 and December 31, 2009. 
(h) Includes ten-year warrants initially valued at $239 to purchase up to 43,617,747 shares of common stock, no par value, rela
ted to Series F preferred stock, at an initial exercise price 
of $11.72 per share. 
(i) See Note 32 for additional information on capital actions taken by the Bancorp subsequent to December 31, 2010. 
 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
   Fifth Third Bancorp    69 
    
 For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions, except per share data) 
201020092008
Interest Income 
 Interest and fees on loans and leases 
          $3,823
          3,934           4,935 
Interest on securities 
658733           660 
Interest on other short-term investments 
                8
                1                 13 
Total interest income 
4,489          4,668           5,608 
Interest Expense Interest on deposits 
             591
             953              1,289 
Interest on other short-term borrowings 
              4 
              43               248 
Interest on long-term debt 
             290
             318              557 
Total interest expense 
8851,314 2,094 Net Interest Income           3,604
          3,354           3,514 
Provision for loan and lease losses 
1,538             3,543              4,560 
Net Interest Income (Loss) After Pr
ovision for Loan and Lease Losses 2,066
          (189)           (1,046) 
Noninterest Income Mortgage banking net revenue 
              647 
              553               199 
Service charges on deposits 
              574
              632               641 
Corporate banking revenue 
364372431
Investment advisory revenue 
             361
             326              366
Card and processing revenue 
           316
           615             912 
Gain on sale of processing business 
-1,758-
Other noninterest income 
406479 363Securities gains (losses), net 
47            (10)            (86)
Securities gains - non-qualifying hedg
es on mortgage servicing rights 
1457 120 Total noninterest income 
2,729           4,782            2,946 
Noninterest Expense Salaries, wages and incentives 
            1,430
            1,339             1,337 
Employee benefits 
             314
             311              278 
Net occupancy expense 
             298
             308              300 
Technology and communications 
189181 191 Equipment expense 
122123               130 
Card and processing expense 
             108 
             193              274 
Goodwill impairment 
--965
Other noninterest expense 
1,394 1,371 1,089Total noninterest expense 
3,855 3,826 4,564 Income (Loss) Before Income Taxes             940 
           767            (2,664) 
Applicable income tax expense (benefit) 
187 30 (551) Net Income (Loss)                    753 
                   737                  (2,113) 
Less: Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 
---Net income (loss) attributable to Bancorp 
753737(2,113)
Dividends on preferred stock 
25022667
Net Income (Loss) Available to Common Shareholders
             $503 
           511             (2,180) 
Earnings Per Share              $0.63 
             0.73              (3.91
) Earnings Per Diluted Share              $0.63 
            0.67              (3.91
)    See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
  70    Fifth Third Bancorp 
           
 Bancorp Shareholders™ Equity   
     
Accumulated 
Other  Total  
Bancorp 
 Non-  
 Common PreferredCapital Retained ComprehensiveTreasury Shareholders™controllingTotal

($ in millions, except per share data) Stock Stock SurplusEarnings Income (Loss)Stock Equity Interest Equit
yBalance at December 31, 2007 
$1,295 9 1,779  8,413(126) (2,209) 9,1619,161
Net loss (2,113)  (2,113) (2,113) 
Other comprehensive income     224   224 224 
Comprehensive loss 
 (1,889)(1,889)
Cash dividends declared: 
     Common stock at $0.75 per share (413) (413)(413)

    Preferred stock (48) (48)(48)
Dividends on redemption of preferred 
shares (19) (19)(19)
Issuance of preferred shares
, Series G 1,072 1,0721,072
Issuance of preferred shares, 
Series F 3,169239 3,4083,408
Shares issued in business combinations (1,071)1,841 770770
Retirement of preferred shares, Series D, E (9) (9)(9)
Stock-based compensation expense 561 5757

Restricted stock grants (136)136 --
Stock-based awards ex
ercised, including 
treasury shares issued (2)2 --
Loans repaid related to the exercise of stock-
based awards, net 4 44
Change in corporate tax benefit related 
to stock-based compensation (16) (16)(16)
Other (5)31(1)(1)
Balance at December 31, 2008
 1,2954,2418485,82498(229)12,07712,077
Net income 737 737737
Other comprehensive income     143 143 143 
Comprehensive income 
880880
Cash dividends declared: 
    Common stock at $0.04 per share (29)(29)(29)
    Preferred stock (220)(220)(220)
Accretion of preferred dividends, Series F 41(41)--
Issuance of common shares 351635986986
Dividends on exchange of preferred shares, 
Series G 353535
Exchange of preferred shares, Series G 133(674)272(269)(269)

Stock-based compensation expense 46(1)4545
Restricted stock grants (27)27--
Stock-based awards ex
ercised, including 
treasury shares issued 1(1)--
Change in corporate tax benefit related to 
stock-based compensation (29)(29)(29)
Reversal of OTTI 242424
Other 1(3)(3)2(3)(3)
Balance at December 31, 2009
 1,7793,6091,7436,326241(201)13,49713,497
Net income 
753 753- 753
Other comprehensive income 
737373
Comprehensive income 
826826
Cash dividends declared: 
    Common stock at 
$0.04 per share
 (32)(32)(32)
    Preferred stock 
(205)(205)(205)
Accretion of preferred dividends, Series F 
45(45)--
Stock-based compensation expense 
45(1)44 44
Restricted stock grants 
(62)62--
Stock-based awards ex
ercised, including 
treasury shares issued 
(10) 6(4)(4)
Loans repaid related to the exercise of stock-
based awards, net 
111
Impact of cumulative effect of change in 
accounting principle 
(77)(77)(77)
Noncontrolling interest 
-29 29
Other (2)311
Balance at December 31, 2010
 $1,7793,6541,7156,719314(130)14,05129 14,080
  See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
      Fifth Third Bancorp    71     
  For the years ended December 31 ($ in millions) 
 2010 
20092008
Operating Activities 
Net income (loss) attributable to Bancorp 
$753 
737 (2,113) 
Adjustments to reconcile net income (lo
ss) attributable to Bancorp to net ca
sh provided by op
erating activities: 
    Provision for loan and lease losses 
1,538 
3,543 4,560 
    Depreciation, amortization and accretion 
457 
341 8 
    Stock-based compensation expense 
6445 57     Provision (benefit) for deferred income taxes 
176
184(1,140)
    Realized securities gains 
(60)(27)(41)
    Realized securities gains - non-quali
fying hedges on mortga
ge servicing rights           (14) 
          (64)           (120) 
    Realized securities losses 
1337127 
    Realized securities losses - non-qualify
ing hedges on mortga
ge servicing rights -7          -
    Provision for mortgage servicing rights 
3624207
    Net losses (gains) on sales of loans and fair value adjustments on loans held for sale 
114116(47)
    Capitalized mortgage servicing rights 
(297)
(373)(195)
    Loss on recalculation of the timing
 of tax benefits on leveraged leases 
--130
    Impairment charges on goodwill 
--965
Loans originated for sale, net of repayments 
(18,231)
(22,252)(11,527)
Proceeds from sales of loans held for sale 
18,634
21,50411,273
Dividends representing return 
on equity method investments 
312213
Excess tax benefit related to stock-based compensation 
(4)--Gain on sale of processi
ng business, net of tax 
-(1,052)-
Net change in: 

    Trading securities 
671,000134
    Other assets 
9826(478)
    Accrued taxes, interest and expenses 
(63)(1,200)925
    Other liabilities 
82 376 355 
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 3,305
3,7943,093
Investing Activities 
Sales: 
    Available-for-sale securities 
2,578 
3,750 7,226 
    Loans 
5383315,216
    Disposal of bank
 premises and equipment 
10 
20 34 Repayments / maturities: 

    Available-for-sale securities 
4,620
117,90167,883 
    Held-to-maturity securities 
 1 3 3
Purchases: 

    Available-for-sale securities 
(5,218)(126,942)(76,317)
    Held-to-maturity securities 
(1)-(11)
    Bank premises and equipment 
(224)
(173)(410)
Restricted cash from the initial conso
lidation of variable interest entities 
63--Dividends representing return 
of equity method investments 
8911
Proceeds from sale of
 processing business 
-562-
Net cash (paid) acquired in business combinations 
-(16) 66 
Net change in: 

    Other short-term investments 
1,861
209(2,910)
    Loans and leases 
(2,507)
5,497(6,553)
    Operating lease equipment 
(21) (75) (142) 
Net Cash Provided by (Used 
In) Investing Activities 1,708
1,076     (5,904)
Financing Activities 
Net change in: 
    Core deposits 
7849,550(2,820)
    Certificates - $100,000 and over, including other foreign office 
(3,429)
(4,159)       1,927 
    Federal funds purchased 
97(104)(4,352)
    Other short-term borrowings 
38(8,544)4,478
Proceeds from issuance 
of long-term debt  
145272,157
Repayment of long-term debt 
    (2,473)
    (3,065)    (2,272)
Issuance of common shares 
-986-
Issuance of preferred shares, Series G, F 
--4,480
Exchange of preferred shares, Series G 
-(269)-
Dividends on exchange of preferred shares, Series G 
-35-
Dividends paid on common shares 
(32)(27)(639)
Dividends paid on preferred shares 
       (205)
       (220)       (48)
Retirement of preferred shares, Series D, E 
--(9)
Dividends on redemption of pref
erred shares, Series D, E 
--(19)
Capital contribution from noncontrolling interest 
30--Other, net 
4(1)7
Net Cash (Used In) Provided by Financing Activities (5,172)
(5,291)         2,890
(Decrease) Increase in Cash and Due fr
om Banks            (159) 
           (421)            79 
Cash and Due from Banks at Beginning of Year 2,318 
2,739 2,660 
Cash and Due from Banks at End of Year $2,159 
$2,318 2,739 
Cash Payments 
Interest 
$920
1,416 2,053 
Income taxes 
79109 416 
 See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Note 
2 contains noncash investin
g and financing activities. 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 72    Fifth Third Bancorp     
1.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUN
TING AND REPORTING POLICIES 
Nature of Operations 
Fifth Third Bancorp, an Ohio corporation, conducts its principal 
lending, deposit gathering, transaction processing and service 

advisory activities through its banking and non-banking 

subsidiaries from banking centers located throughout the 

Midwestern and Southeastern regions of the United States.  
 Basis of Presentation 
The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of 

the Bancorp and its majority-owned subsidiaries and variable 

interest entities in which the Ba
ncorp has been determined to be 
the primary beneficiary. Other en
tities, including certain joint 
ventures, in which the Bancorp has the ability to exercise 
significant influence over operating and financial policies of the 

investee, but upon which the Bancorp does not possess control, 

are accounted for by the equity method and not consolidated. 

Those entities in which the Bancor
p does not have the ability to 
exercise significant influence are generally carried at the lower of 

cost or fair value. Intercompany
 transactions and balances have 
been eliminated. Certain prior period data has been reclassified to 
conform to current period presentation.  
 Use of Estimates The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. 
GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions 

that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and 
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those 
estimates.  Cash and Due From Banks 
Cash and due from banks consist of currency and coin, cash items 

in the process of collection and due from banks. Currency and 
coin includes both U.S. and fore
ign currency owned and held at 
Fifth Third offices and that is in-t
ransit to the FRB. Cash items in 
the process of collection include checks and drafts that are drawn 

on another depository institution or the FRB that are payable 

immediately upon presentation in the U.S. Balances due from 

banks include non-interest bearing balances that are funds on 

deposit at other depository institutions or the FRB. 
 Securities 
Securities are classified as held-to-maturity, available-for-sale or 

trading on the date of purchase. Only those securities which 

management has the intent and ability to hold to maturity are 

classified as held-to-maturity and reported at amortized cost. 

Securities are classified as available-for-sale when, in 
management™s judgment, they may be sold in response to, or in 
anticipation of, changes in mark
et conditions. Securities are 
classified as trading when bought and held principally for the 

purpose of selling them in the near term. Available-for-sale and 

trading securities are reported at fair value with unrealized gains 

and losses, net of related deferred income taxes, included in other 

comprehensive income and noninterest income, respectively. The 

fair value of a security is determined based on quoted market 
prices. If quoted market prices are not available, fair value is 
determined based on quoted prices of similar instruments or 

discounted cash flow models that
 incorporate market inputs and 
assumptions including discount ra
tes, prepayment speeds, and loss 
rates. Realized securities gain
s or losses are reported within 
noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 

The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification 

method.  Available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities with 
unrealized losses are reviewed quarterly for possible OTTI. For 

debt securities, if the Bancorp intends to sell the debt security or 

will more likely than not be required to sell the debt security 

before recovery of the entire amortized cost basis, then an OTTI 

has occurred. However, even if the Bancorp does not intend to 
sell the debt security and will not likely be required to sell the debt 
security before recovery of its entire amortized cost basis, the 

Bancorp must evaluate expected 
cash flows to be received and 
determine if a credit loss has occurred. In the event of a credit 
loss, the credit component of the impairment is recognized within 

noninterest income and the non-credit component is recognized 

through other comprehensive income. For equity securities, the 

Bancorp™s management evaluates the 
securities in an unrealized 
loss position in the available-for-sale portfolio for OTTI on the 

basis of the duration of the declin
e in value of the security and 
severity of that decline as well 
as the Bancorp™s intent and ability 
to hold these securities for a peri
od of time sufficient to allow for 
any anticipated recovery in the mark
et value. If it is determined 
that the impairment on an equity s
ecurity is other than temporary, 
an impairment loss equal to the difference between the carrying 

value of the security and its f
air value is recognized within 
noninterest income.  
 Portfolio Loans and Leases Basis of Accounting 
Portfolio loans and leases are ge
nerally reported at the principal 
amount outstanding, net of unearned income, deferred loan fees 

and costs, and any direct prin
cipal charge-offs. Direct loan 
origination fees and costs are deferred and the net amount is 

amortized over the estimated life of the related loans as a yield 
adjustment. Interest income is r
ecognized based on the principal 
balance outstanding computed using the effective interest method.  
Purchased loans are evaluated for evidence of credit 
deterioration at acquisition and reco
rded at their initial fair value. 
For loans acquired with no evidence of credit deterioration, the 

fair value discount or premium is
 amortized over the contractual 
life of the loan as an adjustment 
to yield. For loans acquired with 
evidence of credit deterioration, the Bancorp determines at the 
acquisition date the excess of the loan™s contractually required 
payments over all cash flows expected to be collected as an 

amount that should not be accreted into interest income 

(nonaccretable difference). The remaining amount representing 

the difference in the expected cash flows of acquired loans and 

the initial investment in the acquired 
loans is accreted into interest 
income over the remaining life of the loan or pool of loans 

(accretable yield). Subsequent to 
the purchase date, increases in 
expected cash flows over those ex
pected at the purchase date are 
recognized prospectively as interest income over the remaining 

life of the loan. The present value of any decreases in expected 

cash flows after the purchase date is recognized by recording an 

ALLL or a direct charge-off. Subsequent to the purchase date, the 

methods utilized to estimate the required ALLL is similar to 

originated loans. Loans carried at 
fair value, mortgage loans held 
for sale and loans under revolving credit agreements are excluded 
from the scope of this guidance on loans acquired with 
deteriorated credit quality.  
The Bancorp™s lease portfolio consists of both direct 
financing and leveraged leases. Direct financing leases are carried 

at the aggregate of lease payments 
plus estimated residual value of 
the leased property, less unearned income. Interest income on 

direct financing leases is recognized over the term of the lease to 

achieve a constant periodic rate
 of return on the outstanding 
investment. Leveraged leases are carried at the aggregate of lease 
payments (less nonrecourse debt payments) plus estimated 

residual value of the leased pr
operty, less unearned income. 
Interest income on leveraged leases is recognized over the term of 

the lease to achieve a constant rate of return on the outstanding 

investment in the lease, net of the related deferred income tax 

liability, in the years in which the net investment is positive. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
   Fifth Third Bancorp    73    
Nonaccrual Loans 
When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, the accrual of interest 
is discontinued and all previously 
accrued and unpaid interest is 
charged against income. Commer
cial loans are placed on 
nonaccrual status when there is
 a clear indication that the 
borrower™s cash flow may not be sufficient to meet payments as 

they become due. Such loans are also placed on nonaccrual status 

when the principal or interest is past due ninety days or more, 

unless the loan is both well s
ecured and in the process of 
collection. Residential mortgage loans that have principal and 
interest payments that have beco
me past due 150 days are placed 
on nonaccrual status unless such loans are both well secured and 

in the process of collection. Home equity, automobile, and other 

consumer loans and leases that have principal and interest 

payments that have become past due ninety days are placed on 

nonaccrual status unless the loan is both well secured and in the 

process of collection. Nonaccrual commercial loans, other than 

loans modified in a TDR, are accounted for on the cost recovery 
method. Nonaccrual residential mortgage loans and nonaccrual 
consumer loans are accounted for on the cash basis method. 

Nonaccrual loans may be returned
 to accrual status when all 
delinquent interest and principal payments become current in 

accordance with the loan agreemen
t or when the loan is both well-
secured and in the process of collection.  
Commercial loans on nonaccrual status, as well as 
commercial loans above a specified threshold are subject to an 
individual review to identify charge-offs. Residential mortgage 
loans and credit card loans that have principal and interest 

payments that have become past 
due 180 days are charged off to 
the ALLL, unless such loans are both well-secured and in the 

process of collection. Home equity, automobile and other 

consumer loans and leases that have principal and interest 

payments that have become past due one hundred and twenty 

days are charged off to the ALLL, unless such loans are both well-
secured and in the process of collection. 
 
Restructured Loans 
A loan is accounted for as a TDR if the Bancorp, for economic or 

legal reasons related to the borrowe
r™s financial difficulties, grants 
a concession to the borrower that it would not otherwise consider. 

A TDR typically involves a modification of terms such as a 

reduction of the stated interest rate or face amount of the loan, a 
reduction of accrued interest, or an extension of the maturity 
date(s) at a stated interest rate lower than the current market rate 

for a new loan with similar risk. The Bancorp measures the 

impairment loss of a TDR based on the difference between the 

original loan™s carrying amount an
d the present value of expected 
future cash flows discounted at th
e original, effective yield of the 
loan. Beginning with the first quarter of 2009, based on published 

guidance with respect to TDRs from certain banking regulators 
and to conform to general practices within the banking industry, 
the Bancorp determined it was appropriate to maintain consumer 

loans modified as part of a TDR on accrual status, provided there 

is reasonable assurance of repayment and of performance 

according to the modified te
rms based upon a current, well-
documented credit evaluation. Ma
nagement believes this policy is 
reflective of regulatory guidance and provides better comparability 

to other financial institutions. TDRs on commercial loans remain 
on nonaccrual status until a si
x-month payment history is 
sustained. During the nonaccru
al period, TDRs on commercial 
loans are accounted for using the cash basis method for income 

recognition, provided that full repayment of principal under the 

modified terms of the loan is reasonably assured.   

 
Impaired Loans 

A loan is considered to be impaired when, based on current 
information and events, it is pr
obable that the Bancorp will be 
unable to collect all amounts due 
(including both principal and 
interest) according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement. 
For loans modified in a TDR, the contractual terms of the loan 
agreement refer to the terms specified in the original loan 

agreement. A loan restructured in a TDR is no longer considered 

impaired in years after the rest
ructuring if the restructuring 
agreement specifies a rate equal to
 or greater than the rate the 
Bancorp was willing to accept at the time of the restructuring for a 

new loan with comparable risk an
d the loan is not impaired based 
on the terms specified by the restructuring agreement. Refer to 
the ALLL section for discussion regarding the Bancorp™s 
methodology for identifying impaired loans and determination of 

the need for a loss accrual. 
 Loans Held for Sale 
Loans held for sale represent conforming fixed rate residential 

mortgage loan originations intended to be sold in the secondary 

market, commercial loans and other loans that management has 
an active plan to sell. Loans held for sale may be carried at the 
lower of cost or fair value, or
 carried at fair value where the 
Bancorp has elected the fair v
alue option of accounting under 
U.S. GAAP. The Bancorp has elected to measure residential 

mortgage loans originated as held
 for sale under the fair value 
option. For loans in which the Bancorp has not elected the fair 

value option, the lower of cost or fair value is determined at the 

individual loan level. 
Management™s intent to sell residential mortgage loans 
classified as held for sale may change over time due to such 

factors as changes in the overall liq
uidity in markets or changes in 
characteristics specific to certain 
loans held for sale. Consequently, 
these loans may be reclassified to
 loans held for investment and, 
thereafter, reported within th
e Bancorp™s residential mortgages 
class of portfolio loans and leases. In such cases, the residential 

mortgage loans will continue to be measured at fair value. The fair 
value of residential mortgage loans is estimated based upon 
mortgage-backed securities prices and spreads to those prices or, 

for certain ARM loans, discounted cash flow models that may 

incorporate the anticipated portfolio composition, credit spreads 

of asset-backed securities with similar collateral, and market 

conditions. The anticipated portfolio composition includes the 

effects of interest rate spreads and discount rates due to loan 

characteristics such as the state 
in which the loan was originated, 
the loan amount and the ARM margin. These fair value marks are 
recorded as a component of noninterest income in mortgage 

banking net revenue. The Bancorp generally has commitments to 

sell residential mortgage loans held for sale in the secondary 

market. Gains or losses on sales are recognized in mortgage 

banking net revenue upon delivery. 
Loans held for sale are placed on nonaccrual status consistent 
with the Bancorp™s nonaccrual policy for portfolio loans and 
leases.   Other Real Estate Owned 
OREO, which is included in other assets, represents property 
acquired through foreclosure or other proceedings and is carried 

at the lower of cost or fair value, less costs to sell. All OREO 
property is periodically evaluated and decreases in carrying value 
are recognized as reductions in other noninterest income in the 

Consolidated Statements of Income. 
 Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses 
The Bancorp disaggregates its por
tfolio loans and leases into 
portfolio segments for purposes of determining the ALLL. The 
Bancorp™s portfolio segments include commercial, residential 

mortgage, and consumer. The Banc
orp further disaggregates its 
portfolio segments into classes for purposes of monitoring and 

assessing credit quality based on certain risk characteristics. 

Classes within the commercial portfolio segment include 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 74    Fifth Third Bancorp     
commercial & industrial, commercial mortgage owner-occupied, 
commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied, commercial 
construction, and commercial leasing. The residential mortgage 
portfolio segment is also consider
ed a class. Classes within the 
consumer segment include home equity, automobile, credit card, 

and other consumer loans and leases. For an analysis of the 

Bancorp™s ALLL by portfolio segment and credit quality 

information by class, see Note 7.  
The Bancorp maintains the ALLL to absorb probable loan 
and lease losses inherent in its portfolio segments. The ALLL is 
maintained at a level the Bancorp 
considers to be adequate and is 
based on ongoing quarterly assessments and evaluations of the 

collectibility and historical loss 
experience of loans and leases. 
Credit losses are charged and recoveries are credited to the ALLL. 

Provisions for loan and lease losses are based on the Bancorp™s 

review of the historical credit 
loss experience and such factors 
that, in management™s judgment, deserve consideration under 

existing economic conditions in estimating probable credit losses. 
In determining the appropriate level of the ALLL, the Bancorp 
estimates losses using a range derived from ﬁbaseﬂ and 

ﬁconservativeﬂ estimates. The Banc
orp™s strategy for credit risk 
management includes a combination of conservative exposure 

limits significantly below legal lending limits and conservative 

underwriting, documentation and 
collections standards. The 
strategy also emphasizes diversific
ation on a geographic, industry 
and customer level, regular cred
it examinations and quarterly 
management reviews of large credit exposures and loans 
experiencing deterioration of credit quality.  
The Bancorp™s current methodology for determining the 
ALLL is based on historical loss rates, current credit grades, 

specific allocation on loans modified in a TDR and impaired 

commercial credits above specified thresholds and other 

qualitative adjustments. Allowan
ces on individual commercial 
loans, TDRs and historical loss rates are reviewed quarterly and 
adjusted as necessary based on changing borrower and/or 
collateral conditions and actual collection and charge-off 

experience. An unallocated allowan
ce is maintained to recognize 
the imprecision in estimating and measuring losses when 

evaluating allowances for individu
al loans or pools of loans.  
Larger commercial loans included within aggregate borrower 
relationship balances exceeding $1 
million that exhibit probable or 
observed credit weaknesses, as well as loans that have been 
modified in a TDR, are subject to individual review for 
impairment. The Bancorp considers the current value of collateral, 

credit quality of any guarantees, the guarantor™s liquidity and 

willingness to cooperate, the loan structure, and other factors 

when evaluating whether an indi
vidual loan is impaired. Other 
factors may include the industry and geographic region of the 

borrower, size and financial condit
ion of the borrower, cash flow, 
leverage of the borrower, and the Bancorp™s evaluation of the 
borrower™s management. When in
dividual loans are impaired, 
allowances are determined based on management™s estimate of the 

borrower™s ability to repay the loan given the availability of 

collateral, other sources of cash flow, as well as evaluation of legal 

options available to the Bancorp. Allowances for impaired loans 

are measured based on the present v
alue of expected future cash 
flows discounted at the loan™s eff
ective interest rate, fair value of 
the underlying collateral or readily observable secondary market 
values. The Bancorp evaluates the collectibility of both principal 
and interest when assessing the 
need for a loss accrual.   Historical credit loss rates are applied to commercial loans 
that are not impaired or are 
impaired, but smaller than the 
established threshold of $1 million and thus not subject to specific 

allowance allocations. The loss rates are derived from a migration 

analysis, which tracks the hist
orical net charge-off experience sustained on loans according to their internal risk grade. The risk 
grading system currently utilized for allowance analysis purposes 
encompasses ten categories.  
Homogenous loans and leases in the residential mortgage and 
consumer portfolio segments are not individually risk graded. 
Rather, standard credit scoring systems and delinquency 

monitoring are used to assess 
credit risks, and allowances are 
established based on the expected net charge-offs. Loss rates are 

based on the average net charge-off history by loan category. 

Historical loss rates may be adjusted for significant factors that, in 

management™s judgment, are necessary to reflect losses inherent in 

the portfolio. Factors that management considers in the analysis 
include the effects of the national and local economies; trends in 
the nature and volume of delinquencies, charge-offs and 

nonaccrual loans; changes in loan mix; credit score migration 

comparisons; asset quality trends
; risk management and loan 
administration; changes in the in
ternal lending policies and credit 
standards; collection practices; an
d examination results from bank 
regulatory agencies and the Bancor
p™s internal credit examiners.  The Bancorp™s primary market areas for lending are the 
Midwestern and Southeastern regions of the Unites States. When 
evaluating the adequacy of allowances, consideration is given to 

these regional geographic concentrations and the closely 

associated effect changing economic conditions have on the 

Bancorp™s customers.  
In the current year, the Ba
ncorp has not substantively 
changed any material aspect to it
s overall approach to determining 
its ALLL for any of its portfolio segments. There have been no 
material changes in criteria or estimation techniques as compared 
to prior periods that impacted the determination of the current 

period ALLL for any of the Bancorp™s portfolio segments.  
 Reserve for Unfunded Commitments 
The reserve for unfunded commitments is maintained at a level 
believed by management to be su
fficient to absorb estimated 
probable losses related to unfunded credit facilities and is included 

in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The 

determination of the adequacy of the reserve is based upon an 

evaluation of the unfunded credit facilities, including an 

assessment of historical commitment 
utilization experience, credit 
risk grading and credit grade migration. This process takes into 

consideration the same risk elements that are analyzed in the 
determination of the adequacy of the Bancorp™s ALLL, as 
discussed above. Net adjustments
 to the reserve for unfunded 
commitments are included in other noninterest expense in the 

Consolidated Statements of Income.
  Loan Sales and Securitizations 
When the Bancorp sells loans through either securitizations or 

individual loan sales in accordance 
with its investment policies, it 
is required to assess whether the entity holding the sold or 

securitized loans is a VIE and whether the Bancorp is the primary 

beneficiary and therefore consolidator of that VIE.  If the 

Bancorp holds the power to direct activities most significant to 

the economic performance of the VIE and has the obligation to 

absorb losses or right to receive benefits that could potentially be 
significant to the VIE, then the Bancorp will generally be deemed 
the primary beneficiary of the VIE.  When the Bancorp previously 

sold loans into isolated trusts or conduits, it obtained one or more 

subordinated tranches or other resi
dual interests in these trusts or 
conduits, as well as the servicing ri
ghts to the underlying loans. As 
a result, effective with the January 1, 2010 adoption of the VIE 

consolidation guidance further discussed in the Accounting and 

Reporting Developments section below, the Bancorp was required 
to consolidate these VIEs, and accordingly, the underlying loans 
and other assets and liabilities of these VIEs are included in the 

Bancorp™s Consolidated Balance 
Sheet as of December 31, 2010.  
Prior to the January 1, 2010 adoption of the VIE 
consolidation guidance referen
ced above, the subordinated 
tranches and other residual intere
sts in the trusts and conduits 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
   Fifth Third Bancorp    75    
referenced above were carried at fair value and included in 
available-for-sale securities. The fair value of such interests were 
based on quoted market prices, if available. If quoted prices were 
not available, fair value was based on the present value of future 

expected cash flows using management™s best estimates for the 

key assumptions, including cred
it losses, prepayment speeds, 
forward yield curves and discount
 rates commensurate with the 
risks involved. Gains or losses recognized on the sale or 

securitization of such loans prior 
to January 1, 2010 were reported 
as a component of noninterest income in the Consolidated 
Statements of Income and were based on the previous carrying 
amount of the loans sold or securiti
zed, as well as the fair value of 
the servicing rights and other interests obtained by the Bancorp at 

the date of sale or securitization. Adjustments to the fair value of 

such interests prior to January 1, 2010 were included in 

accumulated other comprehensiv
e income in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheets or in noninterest income in the Consolidated 

Statements of Income if the fair value had declined below the 
carrying amount and such decline was determined to be other-
than-temporary.   
Servicing rights resulting from residential mortgage and 
commercial loan sales are initially recorded at fair value and 

subsequently amortized in proportion to and over the period of 

estimated net servicing revenues and are reported as a component 

of mortgage banking net revenue and corporate banking revenue, 

respectively, in the Consolidated Statements of Income. Servicing 
rights are assessed for impairment monthly, based on fair value, 
with temporary impairment reco
gnized through a valuation 
allowance and permanent impairment recognized through a write-
off of the servicing asset and related valuation allowance. Key 

economic assumptions used in measuring any potential 

impairment of the servicing rights include the prepayment speeds 

of the underlying loans, the weig
hted-average life, the discount 
rate, the weighted-average coupon and the weighted-average 
default rate, as applicable. The primary risk of material changes to 
the value of the servicing rights resides in the potential volatility in 

the economic assumptions used, particularly the prepayment 

speeds. The Bancorp monitors risk and adjusts its valuation 

allowance as necessary to adequately reserve for impairment in the 

servicing portfolio. For purposes of measuring impairment, the 

mortgage servicing rights are stra
tified into classes based on the 
financial asset type (fixed-rate vs. adjustable-rate) and interest 
rates. Fees received for servicing loans owned by investors are 
based on a percentage of the 
outstanding monthly principal 
balance of such loans and are included in noninterest income in 

the Consolidated Statements of Income as loan payments are 

received. Costs of servicing loans are charged to expense as 

incurred.  
 Bank Premises and Equipment 
Bank premises and equipment, including leasehold improvements, 

are carried at cost less accumula
ted depreciation and amortization. 
Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method based on 

estimated useful lives of the assets for book purposes, while 

accelerated depreciation is used for income tax purposes. 

Amortization of leasehold improvements is computed using the 
straight-line method over the lives 
of the related leases or useful 
lives of the related assets, whichever is shorter. The Bancorp tests 

its long-lived assets for imp
airment through both a probability-
weighted and primary-asset approach whenever events or changes 

in circumstances dictate. Maintenance, repairs and minor 

improvements are charged to noninterest expense in the 

Consolidated Statements of Income as incurred. 
 Derivative Financial Instruments 
The Bancorp accounts for its derivatives as either assets or 
liabilities measured at fair value through adjustments to 
accumulated other comprehensive income and/or current 
earnings, as appropriate. On the 
date the Bancorp enters into a 
derivative contract, the Bancorp designates the derivative 
instrument as either a fair value hedge, cash flow hedge or as a 
free-standing derivative instrument. For a fair value hedge, 

changes in the fair value of the 
derivative instrument and changes 
in the fair value of the hedged asset or liability or of an 

unrecognized firm commitment attrib
utable to the hedged risk are 
recorded in current period net income. For a cash flow hedge, 

changes in the fair value of the derivative instrument, to the extent 

that it is effective, are recorded in accumulated other 
comprehensive income and subsequently reclassified to net 
income in the same period(s) that the hedged transaction impacts 

net income. For free-standing deri
vative instruments, changes in 
fair values are reported in current period net income.  
Prior to entering into a hedge transaction, the Bancorp 
formally documents the relationship between hedging instruments 

and hedged items, as well as the risk management objective and 

strategy for undertaking various hedge transactions. This process 
includes linking all derivative instruments that are designated as 
fair value or cash flow hedges to specific assets or liabilities on the 

balance sheet or to specific foreca
sted transactions, along with a 
formal assessment at both inception of the hedge and on an 

ongoing basis as to the effectiven
ess of the derivative instrument 
in offsetting changes in fair valu
es or cash flows of the hedged 
item. If it is determined that the derivative instrument is not 

highly effective as a hedge, hedg
e accounting is discontinued and 
the adjustment to fair value of the derivative instrument is 
recorded in net income.  
 Income Taxes 
The Bancorp estimates income tax expense based on amounts 

expected to be owed to the various tax jurisdictions in which the 
Bancorp conducts business. On a quarterly basis, management 
assesses the reasonableness of its e
ffective tax rate based upon its 
current estimate of the amount and components of net income, 

tax credits and the applicable statutory tax rates expected for the 

full year. The estimated income tax expense is recorded in the 

Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are determined 
using the balance sheet method and are reported in other assets 
and accrued taxes, interest and 
expenses, respectively, in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets. Under this method, the net deferred 

tax asset or liability is based on the tax effects of the differences 

between the book and tax basis of assets and liabilities, and 

reflects enacted changes in tax ra
tes and laws. Deferred tax assets 
are recognized to the extent they exist and are subject to a 

valuation allowance based on management™s judgment that 

realization is more-likely-than-not. 
This analysis is performed on a 
quarterly basis and includes an evaluation of all positive and 
negative evidence to determine whether realization is more-likely-

than-not. Accrued taxes represent the net estimated amount due to 
taxing jurisdictions and are reported in accrued taxes, interest and 

expenses in the Consolidated
 Balance Sheets. The Bancorp 
evaluates and assesses the relative risks and appropriate tax 

treatment of transactions and f
iling positions after considering 
statutes, regulations, judicial precedent and other information and 
maintains tax accruals consistent with its evaluation of these 

relative risks and merits. Changes to the estimate of accrued taxes 

occur periodically due to changes 
in tax rates, interpretations of 
tax laws, the status of examinations being conducted by taxing 

authorities and changes to statutory, judicial and regulatory 

guidance that impact the relative risks of tax positions. These 

changes, when they occur, can affect deferred taxes and accrued 
taxes as well as the current period™s income tax expense and can 
be significant to the operating results of the Bancorp. For 

additional information on income taxes, see Note 21. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 76    Fifth Third Bancorp     
Earnings Per Share 
In accordance with U.S. GAAP, basic earnings per share is 
computed by dividing net income available to common 

shareholders by the weighted-average number of shares of 

common stock outstanding during
 the period. Earnings per 
diluted share is computed by dividing adjusted net income 
available to common shareholders by the weighted-average 

number of shares of common stock and common stock 

equivalents outstanding during th
e period. Dilutive common stock 
equivalents represent the assumed conversion of dilutive 

convertible preferred stock and the exercise of dilutive stock-
based awards and warrants.  
The Bancorp calculates earnings per share pursuant to the 
two-class method. The two-class method is an earnings allocation 
formula that determines earnings
 per share separately for common 
stock and participating securities according to dividends declared 

and participation rights in undist
ributed earnings. For purposes of 
calculating earnings per share under the two-class method, 

restricted shares that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends are 

considered participating securities until vested. While the 

dividends declared per share on such restricted shares are the 
same as dividends declared per common share outstanding, the 
dividends recognized on such restricted shares may be less 

because dividends paid on restricted shares that are expected to be 

forfeited are reclassified to 
compensation expense during the 
period when forfeiture is expected.  
 Goodwill 
Business combinations entered into by the Bancorp typically 

include the acquisition of goodwill. U.S. GAAP requires goodwill 

to be tested for impairment at the Bancorp™s reporting unit level 

on an annual basis, which for the Bancorp is September 30, and 

more frequently if events or circ
umstances indicate that there may 
be impairment. The Bancorp has determined that its segments 
qualify as reporting units under U.S. GAAP. Impairment exists 

when a reporting unit™s carrying 
amount of goodwill exceeds its 
implied fair value, which is 
determined through a two-step 
impairment test. The first step (Ste
p 1) compares the fair value of 
a reporting unit with its carrying amount, including goodwill. If 

the carrying amount of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, 

the second step (Step 2) of the goodwill impairment test is 
performed to measure the impairment loss amount, if any. The fair value of a reporting unit is the price that would be 
received to sell the unit as a whole in an orderly transaction 

between market participants at
 the measurement date. Since none 
of the Bancorp™s reporting units are publicly traded, individual 

reporting unit fair value determinations cannot be directly 

correlated to the Bancorp™s stock price. To determine the fair 

value of a reporting unit, the Bancorp employs an income-based 
approach, utilizing the reporting unit™s forecasted cash flows 
(including a terminal value appr
oach to estimate cash flows 
beyond the final year of the forecast) and the reporting unit™s 

estimated cost of equity as the discount rate. Additionally, the 

Bancorp determines its market capitalization based on the average 

of the closing price of the Bancorp™s stock during the month 

including the measurement date, incorporating an additional 

control premium, and allocates this market-based fair value 
measurement to the Bancorp™s reporting units in order to 
corroborate the results of the income approach.  
When required to perform Step 2, the Bancorp compares the 
implied fair value of a reporting 
unit™s goodwill with the carrying 
amount of that goodwill. If the carrying amount exceeds the 

implied fair value, an impairment 
loss equal to that excess amount 
is recognized. An impairment loss recognized cannot exceed the 

carrying amount of that goodwill 
and cannot be reversed even if 
the fair value of the reporting unit recovers. 
During Step 2, the Bancorp determines the implied fair value 
of goodwill for a reporting unit by assigning the fair value of the 
reporting unit to all of the asse
ts and liabilities of that unit 
(including any unrecognized intang
ible assets) as if the reporting 
unit had been acquired in a business combination. The excess of 

the fair value of the reporting un
it over the amounts assigned to 
its assets and liabilities is the imp
lied fair value of goodwill. This 
assignment process is only performed for purposes of testing 

goodwill for impairment. The Bancorp does not adjust the 

carrying values of recognized assets or liabilities (other than 

goodwill, if appropriate), nor reco
gnize previously unrecognized 
intangible assets in the Consol
idated Financial Statements as a 
result of this assignment process. Refer to Note 10 for further 

information regarding the Bancorp™s goodwill.  Other 
Securities and other property held by Fifth Third Investment 
Advisors, a division of the Bancorp™s banking subsidiary, in a 
fiduciary or agency capacity are not
 included in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheets because such items are not assets of the 

subsidiaries. Investment advisory revenue in the Consolidated 

Statements of Income is recogn
ized on the accrual basis. 
Investment advisory service revenues are recognized monthly 

based on a fee charged per transaction processed and/or a fee 

charged on the market value of average account balances 
associated with individual contracts.  
The Bancorp recognizes revenue from its card and 
processing services on an accrual basis as such services are 

performed, recording revenues net of certain costs (primarily 

interchange fees charged by credit card associations) not 

controlled by the Bancorp.  
The Bancorp purchases life insurance policies on the lives of 
certain directors, officers and employees and is the owner and 
beneficiary of the policies. The Bancorp invests in these policies, 
known as BOLI, to provide an efficient form of funding for long-

term retirement and other employee benefits costs. The Bancorp 

records these BOLI policies wi
thin other assets in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets at 
each policy™s respective cash 
surrender value, with changes recorded in other noninterest 

income in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
Other intangible assets consist 
of core deposit intangibles, 
customer lists, non-competition agreements and cardholder 
relationships. Other intangibles are amortized on either a straight-

line or an accelerated basis over their useful lives. The Bancorp 

reviews other intangible assets for impairment whenever events or 

changes in circumstances indicate that carrying amounts may not 

be recoverable. Securities sold under repurchase agreements are accounted 
for as collateralized financing tran
sactions and included in other 
short-term borrowings in the Consolidated Balance Sheets at the 
amounts which the securities were sold plus accrued interest. 
 Acquisitions of treasury stock 
are carried at cost. Reissuance 
of shares in treasury for acqui
sitions, exercises of stock-based 
awards or other corporate purposes is recorded based on the 

specific identification method. Advertising costs are generally expensed as incurred.  Accounting and Reporting Developments 
Transfers of Financial Assets In June 2009, the FASB issued gu
idance amending the accounting 
for the transfers of financial assets. This amended guidance 

removed the concept of a QSPE, changed the requirements for 

derecognizing financial assets and measuring gains or losses on 

the sale of financial assets, and required additional disclosures 

about transfers of financial assets
 and a transferor™s continuing 
involvement in transferred financial assets. The amended guidance 

was adopted by the Bancorp on January 1, 2010 on a prospective 
basis and may impact the Bancorp™
s structuring of securitizations 
and other transfers of financial assets, including guaranteed 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
   Fifth Third Bancorp    77    
mortgage securitizations, in order to meet the amended sale 
treatment criteria under the amen
ded guidance. In addition, see 
the discussion below regarding amended guidance on the consolidation of VIEs and the impact on the Bancorp™s 

Consolidated Financial Statements for assets previously 

transferred to QSPEs.  Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities 
In June 2009, the FASB issued gu
idance amending the accounting 
for the consolidation of VIEs. This guidance, adopted by the 
Bancorp on January 1, 2010, amends the methodology for 

determining the primary beneficiary (and therefore consolidator) 

of a VIE and requires such assessment to be performed on an 

ongoing basis. Under this new guidance, the primary beneficiary 

of a VIE is defined as the enterp
rise that has both (1) the power 
to direct activities of the VIE th
at most significantly impact the 
VIE™s economic performance, and (2) the obligation to absorb 
losses or right to receive benefits from the VIE that could 
potentially be significant to the VIE. Due to the concurrent 

issuance and effective date of th
e previously discussed amended 
guidance for the transfers of financial assets and the removal of 

the QSPE concept, the Bancorp was required to assess all VIEs, 

including those formed as QSPEs in transfers that occurred prior 

to January 1, 2010, to determine whether the Bancorp was the 

primary beneficiary of the VIE under the amended guidance. The 
Bancorp is also required under the amended guidance to provide 
additional disclosures about its involvement with both 

consolidated and non-consolidated VIEs, any significant changes 

in risk exposure due to that involvement, and how that 

involvement affects the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial 

Statements. See Note 12 for further discussion. 
In accordance with the transition guidance for the initial 
consolidation of VIEs resulting from the adoption of the 
amended guidance, the Bancorp in
itially measured the assets and 
liabilities of newly consolidated VIEs at their carrying amounts, 

defined as the amounts at which the assets and liabilities would 

have been carried in the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial 

Statements if the amended guidance had been effective when the 

Bancorp first met the conditions to be the primary beneficiary 

under the amended guidance. The difference between the 

amounts added to the Bancorp™s Consolidated Balance Sheets and 
the amounts of previously reco
gnized interests in the newly 
consolidated VIEs was recognized as a cumulative effect 

adjustment to retained earnings. 
The consolidation of these VIEs 
on January 1, 2010 resulted in an increase in total assets of 

approximately $1.3 billion, a negati
ve adjustment of $1 million to 
accumulated other comprehensive income and a negative 

cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings of $77 million. 

The impact of consolidating these VIEs did not have a material 
effect on the Bancorp™s regulatory capital ratios.   
In February 2010, the FASB issued guidance deferring the above 
amendments to the consolidation of VIEs for a reporting entity™s 
interest in registered money market funds. In addition, the deferral 

also applies to a reporting
 entity™s interest in entities meeting either of 
the following two criteria: (1) the en
tity has all the attributes of an 
investment company as specified in ASC Topic 946, ﬁFinancial 
Services - Investment Companies,ﬂ or (2
)  it is an entity for which it is 
acceptable based on industry practice to apply measurement 

principles that are consistent with those in ASC Topic 946 (including 
recognizing changes in fair value currently in the statement of 
operations) for financial reporting purposes. The deferral does not 

apply to those entities in situations
 in which a reporting entity has the 
explicit or implicit obligation to fu
nd losses of an entity that could 
potentially be significant to the entity
. As a result of this deferral, the 
Bancorp has determined that its interests in private equity funds, 
mutual funds and money market funds are not subject to the above 

amended guidance for the consolidation of VIEs. For entities that 

meet the deferral criteria, the primary beneficiary of the VIE is the 
enterprise that will absorb a majori
ty of the VIE™s expected losses or 
receive a majority of the VIE™s expected residual returns. 
 
Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements 

In January 2010, the FASB issued new guidance clarifying current 

fair value disclosure requirements and also requiring certain 

additional disclosures about 
fair value measurements. The 
disclosure requirements under this new guidance were 
implemented by the Bancorp during the first quarter of 2010 and 
are included in Note 28. 
 
Embedded Credit Derivatives 

In March 2010, the FASB issued guidance clarifying the type of 

embedded credit derivative that is exempt from bifurcation 

requirements. Under the guidance, the only form of embedded 

credit derivative that qualifies for the exemption is one that is 
related only to the subordination 
of one financial instrument to 
another. The adoption of this guidance on July 1, 2010 did not 

have a material impact on the Ba
ncorp™s Consolidated Financial 
Statements. 
 
Modification of a Loan Included in a 
Pool Accounted for as a Single Asset 
In April 2010, the FASB issued guidance clarifying that 

modifications of loans that are 
accounted for within a pool under 
ASC Subtopic 310-30 do not result
 in the removal of those loans 
from the pool even if the modification of those loans would 

otherwise be considered a TDR.
 Under the new guidance, an 
entity will continue to be required to consider whether the pool of 

assets in which the loan is includ
ed is impaired if expected cash 
flows for the pool change. The adoption of this guidance on July 

1, 2010 did not have a material impact on the Bancorp™s 

Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 Disclosures about the Credit Quality 
of Financing Receivables and the 
Allowance for Credit Losses 

In July 2010, the FASB issued guidance that requires the Bancorp 

to disclose a greater level of disaggregated information about the 

credit quality of its loans an
d leases and the ALLL. The new 
guidance defines two levels of disaggregationŠportfolio segment 

and class. A portfolio segment is 
defined as the level at which the 
Bancorp develops and documents a systematic method for 
determining its ALLL. Classes generally represent a further 

disaggregation of a portfolio segment based on certain risk 

characteristics. The new disclosures relating to information as of 

the end of a reporting period are 
effective for interim and annual 
reporting periods ending on or after December 15, 2010 and have 

been included in Note 7. The new disclosures about activity that 

occurs during a reporting period
 are effective for interim and 
annual reporting periods beginning on or after December 15, 
2010.  In January 2011, the FASB issued guidance that temporarily 
delayed the effective date of the disclosures about TDR™s that are 

included in this July 2010 guidance on disclosures about credit 

quality and the ALLL. The TDR disclosure guidance will be 

coordinated with the FASB™s proposed guidance for determining 

what constitutes a TDR and is currently anticipated to be effective 
for interim and annual periods 
ending after June 15, 2011.  
               NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 78    Fifth Third Bancorp         
 2. SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION  
Noncash investing and financing activities are presente
d in the following table for the years ended December 31: 
($ in millions) 
          2010 
           2009            2008 
Transfers: 
Portfolio loans to held for sale loans 
     $650 
     $45        $532 
Held for sale loans to portfolio loans 
            160  
              47 1,692 
Portfolio loans to available-for-sale securities 
- -430
Portfolio loans to trading securities 
- -92
Held for sale loans to trading securities 
- 136268
Portfolio loans to OREO 
662 
377303
Held for sale loans to OREO 
68 
36-
Acquisitions: 
 Fair value of tangible assets acquired  
- 74,368
Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets acquired 
- 131,194
Contingent consideration  
- (4)-
Liabilities assumed 
- -(4,858)
Common stock issued 
- -(770)
Impact of change in accounting principle:  

Decrease in available-for-sale securities, net 
941 
--Increase in portfolio loans 
2,217 
--Decrease in demand deposits  
18 
--Increase in other short-term borrowings 
122 
--Increase in long-term debt 
1,344 
-- 3. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND ASSET ACQUISITIONS 
First Charter Corporation
  On June 6, 2008, the Bancorp acquired 100% of the outstanding 

stock of First Charter, a full service financial institution 

headquartered in Charlotte, No
rth Carolina. First Charter 
operated 57 branches in North Carolina and two in suburban 

Atlanta, Georgia. The acquisition of First Charter expanded the 

Bancorp's footprint into the Char
lotte, North Carolina market and 
strengthened the Bancorp's presence in Georgia.  
Under the terms of the transaction, the Bancorp paid $31.00 
per First Charter share, or $1.1 billion. Consideration was paid in 

the form of approximately 70% Fifth Third common stock and 

30% cash. First Charter common stock shareholders who received 

shares of Fifth Third common stock in the merger received 

1.7412 shares of Fifth Third common stock for each share of First 

Charter common stock, resulting in the issuance of 42.9 million 
shares of Fifth Third common stock. The common stock issued 
to affect the transaction was valued at $17.80 per share, the 

average closing price of the Bancorp™s common stock on the five 

previous trading days ending on 
the trading day immediately prior 
to the closing date.  
The assets and liabilities of First Charter were recorded on 
the Consolidated Balance Sheets at 
their respective fair values as 
of the closing date. The results of First Charter's operations were 
included in the Bancorp™s Consolidated Statements of Income 
from the date of acquisition. In addition, the Bancorp realized 

charges against its earnings for acquisition-related expenses of $17 

million during 2008. The acquisition-related expenses consisted 

primarily of consulting, marketing,
 travel and relocation, and other 
costs associated with system conversions.  
The transaction resulted in total intangible assets of $1.2 
billion based upon the purchase price, the fair values of the 

acquired assets and assumed liabilities and applicable purchase 

accounting adjustments. Of this total intangibles amount, $56 

million was allocated to core deposit intangibles, $9 million was 

allocated to customer lists and 
$2 million was allocated to lease 
intangibles. The remaining $1.1 
billion of intangible assets was 
recorded as goodwill, which is non-deductible for tax purposes.  
The pro forma effect and the financial results of First Charter 
included in the results of operations subsequent to the date of 

acquisition were immaterial to the Bancorp™s financial condition 

or the operating results for the periods presented. 
 Other
 On October 31, 2008, banking regulators declared Bradenton, 

Florida-based Freedom Bank insolvent and the FDIC was named 

receiver. The FDIC approved the assumption of all deposits by 

the Bancorp, which approximated $257 million. The FDIC 
retained substantially all of Freedom Bank's loan portfolio for 
later disposition. As part of the asset acquisition, the Bancorp 

recorded a core deposit intangible of $3 million. 
On May 2, 2008, the Bancorp completed its purchase of nine 
branches located in Atlanta, Geor
gia from First Horizon National 
Corporation (First Horizon). Under terms of the deal, the 

Bancorp acquired the nine branches and assumed the related 

deposits of $114 million. First Horizon retained all loans held at 
the branches. As part of the asset acquisition, the Bancorp 
recorded a core deposit intangible of $1 million.
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
     Fifth Third Bancorp    79 
4. RESTRICTIONS ON CASH AND DIVIDENDS        
The FRB requires that banks hold cash in reserve against deposit 
liabilities, known as the reserve requirement.  The amount of the 

reserve requirement is currently calculated based on net 
transaction account deposits, and is satisfied with vault cash.  
When vault cash alone is not sufficient to meet the reserve 

requirement, the remaining amount must be satisfied with funds 

held at the FRB.  At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Bancorp™s 

reserve requirements were satisfied with vault cash. The dividends 

paid by the Bancorp™s state chartered bank and nonbank 

subsidiaries are subject to regula
tions and limitations prescribed 
by the appropriate state authority. The Bancorp™s state chartered 
bank paid the Bancorp $1.4 billion in dividends during the year 
ended December 31, 2010 and did not pay a dividend during the 

year ended December 31, 2009. Based on retained earnings at 

December 31, 2010 and 2009, the dividend limitation of the 

Bancorp™s nonbank subsidiaries un
der these provisions was $150 
million and $87 million, respectively. 
On December 31, 2008, the Bancorp sold $3.4 billion in 
senior preferred stock and related warrants to the U.S. Treasury 
under the terms of the CPP. The terms include restrictions on 
common stock dividends, which require the U.S. Treasury™s 
consent to increase common stock dividends for a period of three 

years from the date of investment unless the preferred shares are 
redeemed in whole or the U.S. Treasury has transferred all of the 
preferred shares to a third party. For the Bancorp, approval from 

the U.S. Treasury will be required for common stock dividends in 

excess of $0.15 per share of common stock. Also, no dividends 

can be declared or paid on the Bancorp™s common stock unless all 

accrued and unpaid dividends have been paid on the preferred 

shares and certain other outstanding securities. Additionally, the 

Bancorp™s ability to pay dividends on its common stock is limited 
by its need to maintain adequate 
capital levels, comply with safe 
and sound banking practices and meet regulatory expectations. 
On February 2, 2011, the Bancorp redeemed all 136,320 
shares of its Series F preferred stock held by the U.S Treasury 

under the CPP totaling $3.4 billion. See Note 32 for further 

information on the redemption of the preferred shares. 
  5. SECURITIES 
The following table provides the amortized cost, fair value and 
unrealized gains and losses for the major categories of the ava
ilable-for-sale and 
held-to-maturity securities 
portfolio as of December 31: 
  2010 
2009 
($ in millions) 
Amortized Cost 
Unrealized Gains 
Unrealized Losses 
Fair Value Amortized 
Cost Unrealized 
Gains 
Unrealized 
Losses 
Fair Value 
Available-for-sale and other:   
U.S. Treasury and Government agencies 
$225 5-230
4642 (8)458
U.S. Government sponsored agencies 
1,564 81-1,645
2,14332 (33)2,142
Obligations of states and 
political subdivisions 
170 2-172
2403 -243
Agency mortgage-backed 
securities 
10,570 435(32)10,973
11,074315 (7)11,382
Other bonds, notes and 
debentures 
1,338 19(15)1,342
2,54157 (29)2,569
Other securities
(a) 1,052 --1,052
1,4172 -1,419
Total $14,919 542(47)15,414
17,879411 (77)18,213
Held-to-maturity:   Obligations of states and 
political subdivisions 
$348 --348
350- -350
Other debt securities 
5 --5
5- -5
Total $353 --353
355- -355
(a) Other securities consist of FHLB and FRB restricted stock holdings of 
$524
 and 
$344
 at 
December 31, 2010
, respectively, and $551 and $342 at December 31, 2009, respectively, that are 
carried at cost, and certain mutual fund holdings and equity security holdings. 
 The following table presents realized gain
s and losses recognized in income from av
ailable-for-sale securities for the years en
ded December 31:  
  ($ in millions) 
      
2010 
            2009 
  2008Realized gains 
     $69
      91        161 
Realized losses 
              (13) 
               (34) (130) 
Net realized gains 
$56 
5731
 Trading securities totaled $294 million as of December 31, 2010 
compared to $355 million at December 31, 2009. Gross realized 

gains and gross realized losses on trading securities were $1 million 

each for the year ended December 31, 2010. Gross unrealized gains 

and gross unrealized losses on trading securities were $8 million 
each. for the year ended December
 31, 2010. Gross realized gains 
and losses on trading securities were $1 million and $2 million, 

respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2009. Gross 

unrealized losses on trading securities were $8 million and gross 
unrealized gains were immaterial to
 the Bancorp for the year ended 
December 31, 2009. Gross realized g
ains on trading securities for 
the year ended December 31, 2008 were $3 million, while gross 

realized losses as well as gross 
unrealized gains and losses were 
immaterial to the Bancorp. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, securities with a fair value of 
$11.3 billion and $14.2 billion, respect
ively, were pledged to secure 
borrowings, public deposits, trust 
funds, derivative contracts and 
for other purposes as required or permitted by law. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 80    Fifth Third Bancorp     
The amortized cost and fair value of avai
lable-for-sale and held-to-maturity securiti
es at December 31, 2010, by contractual ma
turity, are 
shown in the following table:     
   Available-for-Sale & Other Held-to-Maturity 
($ in millions) 
Amortized 
Cost Fair Value 
Amortized 
Cost Fair Value 
Debt securities: 
(a)   Under 1 year 
$626633 2121
 1-5 years 
9,5359,925 190190
 5-10 years 
3,5463,645 116116
 Over 10 years 
160159 2626
 Other securities 1,0521,052 --
Total $14,91915,414 353353
(a) Actual maturities may differ from contractual maturities when there exists a right to call or prepay obligations with or wi
thout call or prepayment penalties.
  The following table provides the fair v
alue and gross unrealized losses on available-for
-sale securities in an unrealized loss 
position, aggregated 
by investment category and length of time the individual securities have been in a c
ontinuous unrealized loss position, as of December 31: 
   Less than 12 months 12 months or more Total 
($ in millions) Fair Value 
Unrealized 
Losses Fair Value 
Unrealized 
Losses Fair Value 
Unrealized 
Losses 
2010 
 U.S. Treasury and Government agencies 
$ --1- 1-
U.S. Government sponsored agencies 
---- --
Obligations of states and political subdivisions 
11-4- 15-
Agency mortgage-backed securities 
1,555(32)-- 1,555(32)
Other bonds, notes and debentures 
563(10)47(5) 610(15)
Other securities 
---- --
Total $2,129(42)52(5) 2,181(47)
2009 
 U.S. Treasury and Government agencies $288(8)1- 289(8)
U.S. Government sponsored agencies 1,024(15)347(18) 1,371(33)
Obligations of states and political subdivisions 4-3- 7-
Agency mortgage-backed securities 1,583(7)-- 1,583(7)
Other bonds, notes and debe
ntures 782(15)108(14) 890(29)
Other securities 2--- 2-
Total $3,683(45)459(32) 4,142(77)
   Other-Than-Temporary Impairments (OTTI) 
If the fair value of an available-for-sale or held-to-maturity security 
is less than its amortized cost basis, the Bancorp must determine 

whether an OTTI has occurred. Under U.S. GAAP, the 

recognition and measurement requir
ements related to OTTI differ 
for debt and equity securities. See Note 1 for further information 

on the Bancorp™s accounting for OTTI. 
During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Bancorp 
recognized $3 million in OTTI on its available-for-sale debt 

securities, however, no OTTI was 
recognized on held-to-maturity 
debt securities. During the year ended December 31, 2009, OTTI 

recognized on available-for-sale and held-to-maturity debt 

securities was immaterial to the 
Bancorp™s consolidated financial 
statements. In addition, for the years ended December 31, 2010, 

2009 and 2008, OTTI recognized on available-for-sale equity 
securities was immaterial to the 
Bancorp™s consolidated financial 
statements. At December 31, 2010 less than one percent of 

unrealized losses in the available-for
-sale securities portfolio were 
represented by non-rated securities, compared to two percent at 

December 31, 2009. 
During 2008, the Bancorp recogn
ized a pre-tax OTTI charge 
of $67 million on FHLMC and FNMA preferred stock included in 
other securities as well as a pre-tax OTTI charge of $37 million on 
certain bank trust-preferred debt securities classified as available-

for-sale. Upon a change in U.
S. GAAP and adoption by the 
Bancorp in the second quarter of 2009, the Bancorp concluded 

that the OTTI charges on the trust 
preferred securities were due to 
non-credit related factors. Therefore, the Bancorp recognized an 

increase of $37 million to the investment balance and related 

unrealized losses during the year ended December 31, 2009.
    
 
   
 
   
 
      
 
   
 
   
 
   
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 Fifth Third Bancorp 
816.  LOANS AND LEASES   The following table provides a summary of the total loans an
d leases classified by primary purpose as of December 31: 
Total portfolio loans and leases 
were recorded net of unearned 
income, which totaled $1.0 billion and $1.2 billion as of December 
31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Additionally, unamortized 

premiums and discounts, deferred loan fees and costs, and fair 

value adjustments (associated with acquired loans or loans 

designated as fair value upon origination), totaled a net discount 

of $19 million and $106 million as of December 31, 2010 and 
2009, respectively.  
The Bancorp diversifies its loan and lease portfolio by 
offering a variety of loan and le
ase products with various payment 
terms and rate structures. Lending activities are concentrated 

within those states in which the Bancorp has banking centers and 

are primarily located in the Midw
estern and Southeastern regions 
of the United States. The Banc
orp™s commercial loan portfolio 
consists of lending to various industry types. Management 
periodically reviews the performance of its loan and lease 
products to evaluate whether they are performing within 
acceptable interest rate and credit risk levels and changes are made 
to underwriting policies and procedures as needed. The Bancorp 

maintains an allowance to absorb lo
an and lease losses inherent in 
the portfolio. For further information on credit quality and the 

ALLL, see Note 7.  
The Bancorp engages in commercial and consumer lease 
products primarily related to the financing of commercial 
equipment and automobiles. Th
e Bancorp had $3.0 billion of 
direct financing leases and $1.7 billion of leveraged leases at 

December 31, 2010 compared to $3.2 billion and $2.0 billion, 

respectively, at December 31, 2009.
 Pre-tax income from leveraged leases for 2010 was $49 
million compared to pre-tax income in 2009 of $57 million and a 

pre-tax loss in 2008 of $97 million. 
The tax effect of this income 
was an expense of $10 million in each of the years ended 2010 and 
2009 and a tax benefit of $37 million in 2008. 
 The components of the investment in lease financing at December 31: 
 ($ in millions) 
20102009Rentals receivable, net of principal and interest on nonrecourse debt 
$3,775
4,174Estimated residual value of leased assets 
9001,028Initial direct cost, net of amortization 
1619Gross investment in lease financing 
4,6915,221Unearned income 
(1,040)
(1,186)Net investment in lease financing 
(a) $3,651
4,035(a) The accumulated allowance for unco
llectible minimum 
lease payments was 
$112
 and $125 at 
December 31, 2010
 and 2009, respectively.
  The Bancorp periodically reviews residual values associated with 
its leasing portfolio. Declines in residual values that are deemed to 
be other-than-temporary are recogn
ized as a loss. Residual value 
write-downs related to consumer automobile leases for the year 

ended December 31, 2010 were immaterial to the Consolidated 

Financial Statements. The Bancorp recognized $1 million and $3 

million in residual value write-downs related to consumer 

automobile leases for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 
2008, respectively. The Bancorp recognized an immaterial amount 
of residual value write-downs relat
ed to commercial leases in 2010 
and 2008 and $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. 

At December 31, 2010, the minimum future lease payments 

receivable for each of the years 2011 through 2015 was $860 

million, $686 million, $492 million, $457 million and $251 million, 

respectively.    
 
 
 
 
 
 ($ in millions) 
 2010
2009 
Loans and leases held for sale: 
     Commercial and industrial loans  
  $83
4     Commercial mortgage loans 
  147134 
    Commercial construction loans
   6387 
    Residential mortgage loans 
  1,9011,811 
 Other consumer loans and leases
   2231 
Total loans and leases held for sale
   $2,216
2,067 
Portfolio loans and leases: 
   Commercial and industrial loans 
  $27,191
$25,683 
Commercial mortgage loans
   10,84511,803 
Commercial construction loans
   2,048
3,784 
 Commercial leases 
  3,378
3,535 
Total commercial loans and leases
   43,462
44,805 
Residential mortgage loans
   8,956
8,035 
 Home equity 
  11,51312,174 
Automobile loans 
  10,9838,995 
Credit card 
  1,8961,990 
Other consumer loans and leases 
   681780 
Total consumer loans and leases
   34,029
31,974 
Total portfolio loans and leases 
  $77,491
76,779 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 82    Fifth Third Bancorp      
7. CREDIT QUALITY AND THE ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN AND LEASE LOSSES 
Effective December 31, 2010, the Bancorp adopted new 
disclosure requirements that require disaggregation of disclosures 

related to the ALLL by portfolio segment and disclosures related 
to credit quality of loans and le
ases by class. The Bancorp™s 
portfolio segments represent the 
level of disaggregation at which 
the Bancorp determines the ALLL. The Bancorp™s classes  
represent the level of dissagregation at which the Bancorp 
monitors the credit quality and risk characteristics of the portfolio 

segments. The new disclosure requirements do not apply to 
periods ending before December 15, 2010. Therefore, certain 
disclosures are presented on a comparative basis in aggregate and 

then on a disaggregated basis as of December 31, 2010.
  Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses 
The following table summarizes transactions in
 the ALLL for the years ended December 31: 
  ($ in millions
) 2010 
20092008
Balance at January 1 
$3,749 
$2,787$937
Impact of chan
ge in accountin
g princi
ple 
45 
--Losses char
ged of
f    
(2,485) (2,719)(2,791)Recoveries of losses 
previously char
ged of
f 157 
13881
Provision for loan and lease losses 
1,538 
3,5434
,560Balance at December 31 
$3,004 
$3,749$2
,787 The following table provides a summary of the ALLL and related lo
ans and leases classified by portfolio segment as of December 
31, 2010:   ($ in millions) Commercial 
Residential Mortgage Consumer Unallocated Total  
Allowance for loan and lease losses 
(a)
:      
Individually evaluated for impairment
 $209119107
 -$435
Collectively evaluated for impairment
 1,779189448
 - 2,416
Loans acquired with deterior
ated credit quality  1
2- -3Unallocated --- 150150
Total allowance for loan and lease losses $1,989
310555
 150$3,004
Loans and leases 
(b):  Individually evaluated 
for impairment $1,076
1,180651
 -$2,907
Collectively evaluated for impairment  42,382
7,71824,414
 - 74,514
Loans acquired with deterior
ated credit quality  4
128
 -24
Total portfolio loans and leases $43,462
8,91025,073
 -$77,445
(a)
 Includes $15 related to leveraged leases. 
(b)
 Excludes $46 of residential mortgage loans measured at fair valu
e, and includes $1,039 of levera
ged leases, net of unearned inc
ome.  Credit Risk Profile 
For purposes of monitoring the credit quality and risk 

characteristics of its commercial portfolio segment, the Bancorp 

disaggregates the segment into th
e following classes: commercial 
and industrial, commercial mortga
ge owner-occupied, commercial 
mortgage nonowner-occupied
, commercial construction and 
commercial leasing.  
To facilitate the monitoring of credit quality within the 
commercial portfolio segment, and for purposes of analyzing 

historical loss rates used in the determination of the ALLL for the 

commercial portfolio segment, the Bancorp utilizes the following 

categories of credit grades: pa
ss, special mention, substandard, 
doubtful or loss. The five categories, which are derived from 

standard regulatory rating defini
tions, are assigned upon initial 
approval of credit to borrowers and updated periodically 
thereafter. Pass ratings, which are assigned to those borrowers that 
do not have identified potential or well defined weaknesses and 

for which there is a high likelihood of orderly repayment, are 

updated periodically based on the size and credit characteristics of 

the borrower. All other categories are updated on a quarterly basis 

during the month preceding the end of the calendar quarter.  
The Bancorp assigns a special mention rating to loans and 
leases that have potential weaknesses that deserve management™s 
close attention. If left uncorrected, these potential weaknesses 
may, at some future date, result
 in the deterioration of the 
repayment prospects for the loan or lease or the Bancorp™s credit 

position.  
The Bancorp assigns a substandard rating to loans and 
leases that are inadequately prot
ected by the current sound worth 
and paying capacity of the borrower or of the collateral pledged. 

Substandard loans and leases have well defined weaknesses or 

weaknesses that could jeopardize the orderly repayment of the 

debt. Loans and leases in this grade also are characterized by the 
distinct possibility that the Bancorp will sustain some loss if the   
deficiencies noted are not addressed and corrected. 
The Bancorp assigns a doubtful 
rating to loans and leases 
that have all the attributes of a 
substandard rating with the added 
characteristic that the weaknesses make collection or liquidation 

in full, on the basis of currently 
existing facts, conditions, and 
values, highly questionable and improbable. The possibility of 

loss is extremely high, but because of certain important and 
reasonable specific pending factors that may work to the 
advantage of and strengthen the credit quality of the loan or 

lease, its classification as an estimated loss is deferred until its 

more exact status may be determined. Pending factors may 

include a proposed merger or acquisition, liquidation proceeding, 

capital injection, perfecting liens on additional collateral or 

refinancing plans. 
Loans and leases classified as loss are considered 
uncollectible and are charged off 
in the period in which they are 
determined uncollectible. Becaus
e loans and leases in this 
category are fully charged down, they are not included in the 

following tables.  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
     Fifth Third Bancorp    83 
 The following table summarizes the credit ri
sk profile of the Bancorp™s commercial portfolio segment, by class, as of December 
31, 2010:  
    Credit Grade
 ($ in millions) 
 Commercial &  
Industrial Loans 
Commercial 
Mortgage Loans 
Owner-Occupied 
Commercial 
Mortgage Loans 
Nonowner-Occupied 
 Commercial 
Construction 
 Commercial 
Leases Pass $23,147 4,0343,6201,034 3,269
Special Mention  1,406 430647416 60
Substandard  2,541 8541,174540 48

Doubtful  97 226458 1
Total $27,191 5,3405,5052,048  3,378
                                                                                                                               
                                                                                                             
For purposes of monitoring the credit quality and risk 
characteristics of its consumer portfolio segment, the Bancorp 

disaggregates the segment into the following classes: home equity, 

automobile loans, credit card
, and other consumer loans and 
leases. The Bancorp™s residential mortgage portfolio segment is 
also a separate class.  
The Bancorp considers repayment performance as the best 
indicator of credit quality for residential mortgage and consumer 

loans. Residential mortgage loans th
at have principal and interest 
payments that have become past due one hundred fifty days are 

classified as nonperforming unless such loans are both well 

secured and in the process of collection.  Home equity, 
automobile, and other consumer loans and leases that have 
principal and interest payments that have become past due ninety 

days are classified as nonperforming unless the loan is both well 
secured and in the process of coll
ection. Credit card loans that 
have been modified in a TDR are classified as nonperforming 

unless such loans have a sustained repayment performance of six 

months or greater and are reasonably assured of repayment in 
accordance with the restructured terms. All other loans and leases 
are classified as performing. Well secured loans are collateralized 

by perfected security interests in real and/or personal property for 

which the Bancorp estimates proceeds from sale would be 

sufficient to recover the outstandin
g principal and accrued interest 
balance of the loan and pay all co
sts to sell the collateral. The 
Bancorp considers a loan in the process of collection if collection 

efforts or legal action is proceeding and the Bancorp expects to 
collect funds sufficient to bring the loan current or recover the 
entire outstanding principal and accrued interest balance. 
 The following table summarizes the credit risk profile of the Ba
ncorp™s residential mortgage and consumer portfolio segments, b
y class, as 
of December 31, 2010:  
   ($ in millions) 
Residential 
Mortgage Loans
(a) Home Equity  
Automobile 
Loans 
Credit Card Other Consumer 
Loans and Leases 
Performing $8,64211,457
10,980 1,841 597
Nonperforming 26856
3 55 84
Total $8,91011,513
10,983 1,896 681
(a) Excludes $46 of loans me
asured at fair value. 
 Age Analysis of Past Due Loans and Leases 
The following table summarizes the Bancorp™s recorded investment 
in portfolio loans and leases by age and class as of December 
31, 2010:     
Portfolio Loans and Leases ($ in millions) 
 30-89 Days  
Past Due 
90 Days and Greater 
(b) Total Past Due 
Current 
Loans and 
Leases  Total Loans and Leases 
90 Days Past 
Due and Still 
Accruing 
Commercial:        
   Commercial and industrial loans $201
30350426,687 $27,191
$16   Commercial mortgage owner-occupied  50
1391895,151 5,3408   Commercial mortgage nonowner-occupied  38
2152535,252 5,5053   Commercial construction  721452171,831 2,0483

   Commercial leasing 10
7173,361 3,378-Residential mortgage loans 
(a)  1383685068,404 8,910100
Consumer:  
    Home equity loans  14814529311,220 11,51389

   Automobile loans 961511110,872 10,98313

   Credit card loans   35901251,771 1,89642
   Other consumer loan
s and leases  369672 681-
Total portfolio loans and leases 
(a)  $791
1,4332,22475,221 $77,445
$274(a)
  Excludes $46 of loans me
asured at fair value. 
(b)
  Includes accrual and nona
ccrual loans and leases. 
 Impaired Loans and Leases Larger commercial loans included within aggregate borrower 
relationship balances exceeding $1
 million that exhibit probable 
or observed credit weaknesses are subject to individual review. 

The Bancorp also performs an individual review on loans that are 

restructured in a troubled debt restructuring. The Bancorp 
considers the current value of collateral, credit quality of any 
guarantees, the loan structure, an
d other factors when evaluating 
whether an individual loan is impaired. Other factors may include 

the geography and industry of the borrower, size and financial 

condition of the borrower, cash flow and leverage of the 

borrower, and the Bancorp™s evaluation of the borrower™s 
management. NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 84    Fifth Third Bancorp      
 The following table summarizes the Bancorp™s recorded investment 
in impaired loans and leases and related allowance as of Decem
ber 31:  
                    2010 
                        2009 
($ in millions) 
 Recorded    
Investment               Allowance
              Recorded 
              Investment 
                Allowance 
With a related allowance recorded: 
  Commercial 
$695210
$1,468 510
 Residential mortgage 
1,071121
960 108
 Consumer 
607107
519 36
Total with a related allowance recorded 
$2,373438
$2,947 654
 With no related allowance recorded: 
  Commercial 
$385-
$214 -
 Residential mortgage 
121-
68 -
 Consumer 
52-
59 -
Total with no related allowance recorded 
558-
341 -
Total impaired loans and leases 
$2,931-
 $3,288 -
 The average balance of impaired loans du
ring 2010, 2009, and 2008 was $3.2 billion, $2
.9 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively
. Interest income 
recognized on impaired loans during 
2010, 2009, and 2008 was $74 million, $54 milli
on, and $12 million, respectively.   
 The following table summarizes the Bancorp™s recorded investment 
in impaired loans and related allowance by class as of Decembe
r 31, 2010:   ($ in millions)   
  Recorded 
Investment Unpaid Principal 
Balance  Allowance 
With a related allowance recorded:    
Commercial: 
         Commercial and industrial loans $291404128
      Commercial mortgage loans owner-occupied  37494

      Commercial mortgage loans nonowner-occupied 20238640

      Commercial construction loans 15024031
      Commercial leasing 15157
Restructured resident
ial mortgage loans 
Restructured consumer loans: 
1,0711,126121
      Home equity 
$39740053
      Automobile  
32335
      Credit card 
10010018
      Other 
787831
Total impaired loans with a related allowance $2,3732,831438
   With no related allowance recorded:    
Commercial: 
         Commercial and industrial loans $153194-
      Commercial mortgage loans owner-occupied  99113-

      Commercial mortgage loans nonowner-occupied 108126-

      Commercial construction loans 824-
      Commercial leasing 1717-
Restructured resident
ial mortgage loans 
Restructured consumer loans: 
121146-
      Home equity 
$4648-
      Automobile  
66-
Total impaired loans with no related allowance $558674-
 Nonperforming Assets 
The following table summarizes the total nonperforming an
d delinquent loans and leases as of December 31:  
 ($ in millions) 
   
           2010 
       2009  
Nonaccrual loans and leases 
 $1,333
$2,642Restructured nonaccrual loans and leases  
 347305Total nonperforming loans and leases 
 1,6802,947OREO and other repossessed personal property 
(a)  494297Total nonperforming assets 
(b)
  $2,174
$3,244Total loans and leases 90 days 
past due and still accruing  
 $274$567(a) Excludes 
$38
 and $15 of OREO related to government insured loans at 
December 31, 2010
 and 2009, respectively. 
(b) Excludes 
$294
 and $224 of nonaccrual loans held for sale at 
December 31, 2010
 and 2009, respectively. 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Fifth Third Bancorp 
85 Interest income recognized on a cash basis for loans on nonaccr
ual status during 2010, 2009, an
d 2008, was $25 million, $20 mil
lion, and $10 
million, respectively.  
 The following table summarizes the Bancor
p™s nonperforming loans and leases, by
 class, as of December 31, 2010:   
  ($in millions)     
 Nonperforming  
Loans & Leases 
(a) Commercial: 
    Commercial and industrial loans   $568
   Commercial mortgage loans owner-occupied  168
   Commercial mortgage loans nonowner-occupied  267

   Commercial construction  192

   Commercial leasing  19
Total Commercial  $1,214
  Residential mortgage loans  $268
Consumer: 
    Home equity   56
   Automobile loans  3

   Credit card  
 55
   Other consumer loans and leases   84
Total Consumer  $198
Total nonperforming loans and leases  $1,680
(a) Excludes 
$294
 and $224 of nonaccrual loans held for sale at 
December 31, 2010
 and 2009, respectively. 
 8. LOANS WITH DETERIORATED CREDIT QUALITY ACQUIRED IN A TRANSFER 
The Bancorp has acquired certain loans for which there was 
evidence of deterioration of credit quality since origination and for 

which it was probable, at acquisition, that all contractually 
required payments would not be collected. These loans were 
evaluated either individually or segregated into pools based on 

common risk characteristics and accounted for under U.S. GAAP 

guidance for loans acquired with deteriorated credit quality. U.S. 

GAAP requires acquired loans to be
 recorded at their initial fair 
value and prohibits carrying over valuation allowances when 

applying purchase accounting. 
Loans carried at fair value, 
mortgage loans held for sale and loans under revolving credit 
agreements are excluded from the scope of this guidance on loans 
acquired with deteriorated credit quality. During the years ended 

December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Bancorp recorded 

provision expense for loans acquir
ed with deteriorated credit 
quality of $6 million, $21 million and $35 million, respectively, in 

the Consolidated Statements of 
Income. In addition, as of 
December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Bancorp maintained an 

allowance for loan and lease losse
s of $3 million and $21 million, 
respectively, on these loans. 
The following table reflects the outstanding balance of all 
contractually required payments and carrying amounts of loans 

acquired with deteriorated credit quality at December 31: 
  ($ in millions) 
 2010
2009Commercial
  $15
158Consumer  
 58
58Outstanding balance 
 $73
216Carrying amount 
 $24
71 At the acquisition date, the Bancorp determines the excess of the 
loan™s contractually required payments over all cash flows 

expected to be collected as an am
ount that should not be accreted 
into interest income (nonaccretable difference). The remaining 

amount representing the difference 
in the expected cash flows of 
acquired loans and the initial inve
stment in the acquired loans is 
accreted into interest income over the remaining life of the loan or 
pool of loans (accretable yield). A 
summary of activity is provided. ($ in millions) 
Accretable 
Yield 
Balance as of December 31, 2007
 $6Additions 24
Accretion (15)
Disposals -

Reclassifications from (to) nonaccretable difference, 
net  13
Balance as of December 31, 2008
 $28Additions -
Accretion (6)
Disposals -

Reclassifications from (to) nonaccretable difference, 
net  (13)
Balance as of December 31, 2009 $9
Additions -Accretion 
(2)Disposals 
(2)Reclassifications from (to) nonaccretable difference, 
net  
(3)Balance as of December 31, 2010 
$2 The following table reflects loans that were acquired with 

deteriorated credit quality duri
ng the years ended December 31: 
($ in millions) 
 2010
20092008
Contractually required payments receivable 
at acquisition: Commercial
  $ -
 -182
Consumer  
 23
-34
Total  $23
 -216
 Cash flows expected to be collected at 
acquisition
 $8 
-90
Fair value of acquired loans at 
acquisition 
 8-66
        NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 86    Fifth Third Bancorp    
 9. BANK PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT The following is a summary of bank premises and equipment at December 31: 
 ($ in millions) Estimated Useful Life 
20102009Land and improvements  
$797748Buildings 
5 to 50 yrs. 
1,5931,539Equipment 3 to 20 yrs. 
1,2961,354Leasehold improvements 3 to 40 yrs. 
393401Construction in progress  
92105Accumulated depreciation and amortization  
(1,782)
(1,747)Total  $2,389
2,400Depreciation and amortization expense related to bank premises 
and equipment was $225 million in 2010, $227 million in 2009 and 

$218 million in 2008.  Gross occupancy expense for cancelable and noncancelable 
leases was $98 million in 2010, $102 million in 2009 and $98 

million in 2008, which is reduced by rental income from leased 
premises of $19 million in 2010, $16 million in 2009 and $13 
million in 2008. The Bancorp™s subsidiaries have entered into a number of 
noncancelable and capital lease agreements with respect to bank 

premises and equipment. The followi
ng table provides the annual 
future minimum payments under capital leases and noncancelable 

operating leases at December 31, 2010: 

  ($ in millions) 
  Operating Leases Capital Leases 
Year ended December 31
,   2011 
 $91 122012 
 8713
2013 
 833
2014 
 79-
2015 
 75-
Thereafte
r  4541
Total minimum lease 
payments 
$869 29Amounts re
presentin
g interest 
-3Present value o
f net minimum lease 
payments 
-32
 10. GOODWILL Business combinations entered into by the Bancorp typically 
include the acquisition of goodwill. Acquisition activity includes 

acquisitions in the respective pe
riod, in addition to purchase 
accounting adjustments related to
 previous acquisitions. During 
the fourth quarter of 2008, the 
Bancorp determined that the 
Commercial Banking and Consumer Lending segments™ goodwill 
carrying amounts exceeded their asso
ciated implied fair values by 
$750 million and $215 million, respectively. The resulting $965 

million goodwill impairment charge was recorded in the fourth 

quarter of 2008 and represents the total amount of accumulated 

impairment losses as of December 31, 2010. 
 Changes in the net carrying amount of goodwill by reporting 
segment for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 were as foll
ows:   Commercial Branch Consumer Investment Processing  
($ in millions) Banking Banking Lending Advisors Solutions 
(a) Total 
Balance as of December 31, 2008 $614 1,657 - 148 205 2,624 
Acquisition activity (1) (1) - - 7 5 
Sale of Processing Business - - - - (212) (212) 
Balance as of December 31, 2009 613 1,656 - 148 - 2,417 
Acquisition activity - - - -  - 
Balance as of December 31, 2010 
$613 1,656 - 148  2,417 
(a) As a result of the Processing Business Sale on June 30, 2009
, Processing Solutions is no longer a segment of the Bancorp. 
 The Bancorp conducts its evaluation of goodwill impairment as of 
September 30th each year, and more frequently if events or 

circumstances indicate that there may be impairment. The 

Bancorp completed its annual goodwill impairment test as of 
September 30, 2010 and determined that no impairment existed. 
The Bancorp evaluates goodwill for impairment at the segment 

level.  In Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test, the Bancorp 
compared the fair value of each segment to its carrying amount, 

including goodwill. To determine the fair value of a segment, the 

Bancorp employed an income-based approach utilizing the 

segment™s forecasted cash flow
s (including a terminal value 
approach to estimate cash flows beyond the final year of the 
forecast) and the segment™s estimated cost of equity as the 

discount rate. The Bancorp believes that this DCF method, using 

management projections for the respective segments and an 

appropriate risk adjusted discount
 rate, is most reflective of a 
market participant™s view of f
air values given current market 
conditions. Under the DCF method
, the forecasted cash flows 
were developed for each segment by considering several key 

business drivers such as new business initiatives, client retention 

standards, market share changes,
 anticipated loan and deposit 
growth, forward interest rates, historical performance, recent and 
anticipated regulatory changes, and industry and economic trends, 

among other considerations.  
The long-term growth rate used in determining the terminal 
value of each segment was estimated at three percent based on the 

Bancorp™s assessment of the long-term expected growth rate of 

each segment, as well as broader economic considerations such as 

long-term expectations for gross domestic product and inflation. 
The cash flow growth rate required to avoid failing Step 1 was 
determined to be negative 0.5%.  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    Fifth Third Bancorp    87    
The discount rates used in the goodwill impairment test as of 
September 30, 2010 to develop the estimated fair value of the 

segments were as follows: 
  
 Discount 
Rate Commercial Banking 16.7%
Branch Banking 16.0%

Investment Advisors 17.4%
 Discount rates were estimated based on a capital asset pricing 
model, which considers the risk-free interest rate, an estimated 

equity risk premium, an estimated beta for the Bancorp™s common 

stock and size premium adjustments
 specific to each particular 
segment.   Based on the results of the Step 1 test, the Bancorp 
determined that the fair value of
 the Commercial Banking, Branch 
Banking, and Investment Advisors segments exceeded their 
respective carrying values, and consequently, no further testing 

was required. 
The Step 1 analysis prepared for the Bancorp™s Branch 
Banking segment resulted in the unit™s fair value exceeding its 

carrying value, including goodwill, by 7%. The key assumptions 
used in estimating the fair valu
e for the segment include deposit 
and loan growth rates, forecast
ed changes in the absolute and 
relative levels of interest rates, and the impact of recent and 

anticipated regulatory changes affecting retail banking. The 
Bancorp forecasts its deposit growth based on an assessment of 
its expected funding needs, which 
includes an analysis of expected 
growth in loan and investment b
alances as well as availability and 
expected use of alternative funding sources over that period. The 

Bancorp looks at forward interest
 rate curves to forecast the 
future expected interest rate 
levels, which impact the revenue 
from the spread earned on loan 
balances as well as the funding 
benefit generated by the deposit base. The sensitivity of the 
Bancorp™s deposit rates to changes in LIBOR is also a key factor 
considered in this analysis. The Bancorp also considered the 

potential impact of recent and anticipated regulatory changes that 

may impact overdraft revenue, debit interchange revenue and 

credit card revenue in 2011 and beyond. Changes in these key 

assumptions could negatively impact the fair value of the Branch 

Banking segment in future period
s. These changes would include 
unanticipated regulatory changes, 
movements in interest rates and 
economic trends affecting the Branch Banking segment™s 
profitability.  11. INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
Intangible assets consist of servicing rights, core deposit 
intangibles, customer lists, non-compete agreements and 

cardholder relationships. Intangible assets, excluding servicing 

rights, are amortized on either a straight-line or an accelerated 
basis over their estimated useful lives and have an estimated 
weighted-average life at December 31, 2010 of 3.5 years. The 
Bancorp reviews intangible assets for possible impairment 
whenever events or changes in
 circumstances indicate that 
carrying amounts may not be recoverable. For more information 

on servicing rights, see Note 13. The details of the Bancorp™s 
intangible assets are shown in the following table.  
 As of December 31, 2010, all of the Bancorp™s intangible assets we
re being amortized. Amortization expense recognized on intang
ible assets, 
including servicing rights, for the years ending December 
31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $181 million, $204 million and $164 milli
on, respectively. Estimated amortization expens
e, including servicing rights, for the years ending December 31, 2011 through 2015 i
s as follows:  ($ in millions) 
Mortgage Servicing Rights 
Other Intangible 
Assets Total 
2011 
$20122 $223
2012 
16313 176
2013 
1338 141
2014 
1094 113
2015 
902 92
    
 
   
 
    ($ in millions)  
Gross Carrying Amount 
Accumulated 
Amortization 
Valuation 
Allowance 
Net Carrying Amount 
As of December 31, 2010: 
 Mortgage servicing rights $2,284 (1,146) (316) 822 
Core deposit intangibles 
439 (389) - 50 
Other  44 (32) - 12 
Total intangible assets 
$2,767 (1,567) (316) 884 
As of December 31, 2009:     
Mortgage servicing rights $1,987 (1,008) (280) 699 
Core deposit intangibles 487 (397) - 90 

Other consumer and commercial servicing rights 12 (11) - 1 

Other 53 (37) - 16 
Total intangible assets $2,539 (1,453) (280) 806 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 88    Fifth Third Bancorp 
12. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES 
The Bancorp, in the normal course of business, engages in a 
variety of activities that involve 
VIEs, which are legal entities that 
lack sufficient equity to finance their activities, or the equity 
investors of the entities as a group lack any of the characteristics 
of a controlling interest. Unless the VIE qualifies for the deferral 

of the amended VIE consolidation guidance discussed in Note 1, 

the primary beneficiary of a VIE is the enterprise that has both 

the power to direct the activities most significant to the economic 

performance of the VIE and the obligation to absorb losses or 

right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the 

VIE. The Bancorp evaluates its interest in certain entities to 
determine if these entities meet the definition of a VIE and 
whether the Bancorp is the primary beneficiary and should 

consolidate the entity based on the variable interests it held both 
at inception and when there is a 
change in circumstances that 
require a reconsideration. If the Bancorp is determined to be the 

primary beneficiary of a VIE, it must account for the VIE as a 
consolidated subsidiary. If the Bancorp is determined not to be 
the primary beneficiary of a VIE but holds a variable interest in 

the entity, such variable interests are accounted for under the 

equity method of accounting or other accounting standards as 

appropriate.  

 
Consolidated VIEs 

The following table provides a su
mmary of the classifications of 
consolidated VIE assets, liabilities and noncontrolling interest 
included in the Bancorp™s Consolidated Balance Sheets as of 

December 31, 2010: 
  
 ($ in millions) 
   Home Equity   
Securitization Automobile Loan 
Securitizations CDC Investment  Total Assets:  
 Cash and due from banks  $745- $52
Other short-term investments  -7- 7

Commercial mortgage loans  --29 29
Home equity  241-- 241
Automobile loans  -648- 648
Allowance for loan and lease losses  (5)(8)(1) (14)
Other assets  151 7
Total assets  $24469729 970
Liabilities:  
 Other liabilities  $ -12 - $12

Long-term debt  133559- 692
Total liabilities  $133571- $704
   Noncontrolling interest  $29 $29
 Home Equity and Automobile Loan Securitizations 
The Bancorp previously sold $903 million of home equity lines of 

credit to an isolated trust. Add
itionally, the Bancorp previously 
sold $2.7 billion of automobile 
loans to an isolated trust and 
conduits in three separate transactions. Each of these transactions 
isolated the related loans through the use of a VIE that, under 
accounting guidance effective prior to January 1, 2010, was not 

consolidated by the Bancorp. The VIEs were funded through 

loans from large multi-seller asset-backed commercial paper 

conduits sponsored by third party 
agents, asset-backed securities 
issued with varying levels of
 credit subordination and payment 
priority, and residual interests. The Bancorp retained residual 

interests in these entities and, 
therefore, has an obligation to 
absorb losses and a right to recei
ve benefits from the VIEs that 
could potentially be significant 
to the VIEs. In addition, the 
Bancorp retained servicing rights for the underlying loans and, 

therefore, holds the power to direct
 the activities of the VIEs that 
most significantly impact the economic performance of the VIEs. 

As a result, the Bancorp determined it is the primary beneficiary 

of these VIEs and, effective January 1, 2010, these VIEs have 

been consolidated in the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial 
Statements. The assets of each VIE are restricted to the 
settlement of the long-term debt and other liabilities of the 

respective entity. Third-party hold
ers of this debt do not have 
recourse to the general assets of the Bancorp. 
The economic performance of the VIEs is most significantly 
impacted by the performance of the underlying loans. The 

principle risks to which the entities
 are exposed include credit risk 
and interest rate risk. Credit risk is managed through credit 
enhancement in the form of reserve accounts, 
overcollateralization, excess interest on the loans, the 

subordination of certain classes of 
asset-backed securities to other 
classes, and in the case of the home equity transaction, an 
insurance policy with a third party guaranteeing payment of 
accrued and unpaid interest and principal on the securities. 

Interest rate risk is managed by interest rate swaps between the 

VIEs and third parties.  
 CDC Investment CDC, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Bancorp, was created to 

invest in projects to create affo
rdable housing, revitalize business 
and residential areas, and pres
erve historic landmarks. CDC 
generally co-invests with ot
her unrelated companies and/or 
individuals and typically makes investments in a separate legal 

entity that owns the property unde
r development. The entities are 
usually formed as limited pa
rtnerships and LLCs, and CDC 
typically invests as a limited partner/investor member in the form 
of equity contributions. The economic performance of the VIEs 

is driven by the performance of their underlying investment 

projects as well as the VIEs™ ability to operate in compliance with 

the rules and regulations necessary for the qualification of tax 

credits generated by equity investments. Typically, the general 

partner or managing member will be
 the party that has the right 
to make decisions that will most significantly impact the 
economic performance of the entity. The Bancorp serves as the 
managing member of one LLC invested in a business 

revitalization project. The Bancorp has provided an 

indemnification guarantee to th
e investor member of this LLC 
related to the qualification of tax credits generated by investor 

members™ investment. Accordingly, 
the Bancorp concluded that it 
is the primary beneficiary and, therefore, has consolidated this 

VIE. As a result, the VIE is presented as a noncontrolling interest 
in the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements. This 
presentation includes reporting sepa
rately the equity attributable 
to the noncontrolling interest in
 the Consolidated Balance Sheets 
and Consolidated Statements of Ch
anges in Equity. Additionally, 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
     Fifth Third Bancorp    89 
the net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest is 
reported separately in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 

The Bancorp™s maximum exposure related to this indemnification 

at December 31, 2010 is $9 million, which is based on an amount 
required to meet the investor member™s defined target rate of 
return.  
 Non-consolidated VIEs 
The following table provides a summary of assets and liabilities 

carried on the Bancorp™s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of 

December 31, 2010 related to non-consolidated VIEs for which 

the Bancorp holds a variable interest, but is not the primary 
beneficiary to the VIE, as well as the Bancorp™s maximum 
exposure to losses associated with
 its interests in the entities: 
   ($ in millions) 
Total Assets 
Total Liabilities 
Maximum 
Exposure 
CDC investments $1,241 $286$1,241
Private equity investments 129 3322
Money market funds 
148 -158
Loans provided to VIEs 1,175 -1,908
Restructured loans  
12 -13
 CDC Investments 
As noted previously, CDC typically invests in VIEs as a limited 
partner or investor member in the form of equity contributions. 
The Bancorp has determined that it is not the primary beneficiary 

of these VIEs because it lacks the pow
er to direct the activities that 
most significantly impact the economic performance of the 

underlying project or the VIEs™ ability to operate in compliance 

with the rules and regulations necessary for the qualification of tax 

credits generated by equity invest
ments. This power is held by the 
general partners/managing members who exercise full and 
exclusive control of the operations
 of the VIEs. Accordingly, the 
Bancorp accounts for these investments under the equity method 

of accounting.  
The Bancorp™s funding requirements are limited to its invested 
capital and any additional unfunded
 commitments for future equity 
contributions. The Bancorp™s maximum exposure to loss as a result 

of its involvement with the VIEs is limited to the carrying amounts 

of the investments, including the unfunded commitments. As of 
December 31, 2010 and 2009, the carrying amounts of these 
investments, which are included in other assets in the Consolidated 

Balance Sheets, were $1.2 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively. 

Also, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the liabilities related to 

the unfunded commitments, which are included in other liabilities 

in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, were $286 million and $235 

million, respectively. The Bancorp has no other liquidity 

arrangements or obligations to purchase assets of the VIEs that 
would expose the Bancorp to a loss. In certain arrangements, the 
general partner/managing member of the VIE has guaranteed a 

level of projected tax credits to be received by the limited 

partners/investor members, thereb
y minimizing a portion of the 
Bancorp™s risk. 

 Private Equity Investments 
The Bancorp invests as a limited partner in private equity funds 

which provide the Bancorp with an opportunity to obtain higher 
rates of return on invested capital,
 while also creating cross-selling 
opportunities for the Bancorp™s commercial products. Each of the 

limited partnerships has an unrelated third-party general partner 

responsible for appointing the fund
 manager. The Bancorp has not 
been appointed fund manager for an
y of these private equity funds. 
The funds finance primarily all of their activities from the partners™ 

capital contributions and investment returns. The private equity 

funds qualify for the deferral of the amended VIE consolidation 
guidance discussed in Note 1. However, under the VIE 
consolidation guidance still applicab
le to the funds, the Bancorp 
has determined that it is not the primary beneficiary of the funds 

because it does not absorb a majority of the funds™ expected losses 

or receive a majority of the fu
nds™ expected residual returns. 
Therefore, the Bancorp accounts for its investments in these 
limited partnerships under the equity method of accounting. 
The Bancorp is exposed to losses arising from a negative 
performance of the underlying investments in the private equity 

funds. As a limited partner, the Bancorp™s maximum exposure to 

loss is limited to the carrying amounts of the investments plus 

unfunded commitments. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the 

carrying amounts of these investments, which are included in other 

assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets, were $129 million and 
$98 million, respectively. Also as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, 
the unfunded commitment amounts to the funds were $193 million 

and $90 million, respectively. The Bancorp made capital 

contributions of $34 million to private equity funds during the year 

ended December 31, 2010. 
 Money Market Funds 

Under U.S. GAAP, money market funds are generally not 

considered VIEs because they are generally deemed to have 

sufficient equity at risk to financ
e their activities without additional 
subordinated financial support, and the fund shareholders do not 
lack the characteristics of a contro
lling interest.  However, when a 
situation arises where an investment manager provides credit 

support to a fund, even when not contractually required to do so, 

the investment manager is deemed under U.S. GAAP to have 

provided an implicit guarantee of the fund™s performance to the 

fund™s shareholders. Such an imp
licit guarantee would require the 
investment manager and other variable interest holders to 
reconsider the VIE status of the fund, as well as all other similar 
funds where such an implicit guarantee is now deemed to exist.   
In the fourth quarter of 2010, the Bancorp voluntarily 
provided credit support of less than $1 million to a money market 

fund managed by FTAM. Accordingly, the Bancorp was required 

to analyze the money market funds and similar funds managed by 

FTAM under the VIE consolidation guidance still applicable to 

these funds in order to determine the primary beneficiary of each 
fund. In analyzing these funds, the Bancorp determined that 
interest rate risk and credit risk are the two main risks to which the 

funds are exposed. After analyzing the interest rate risk variability 

and credit risk variability associated with these funds, the Bancorp 

determined that it is not the pr
imary beneficiary of these funds 
because it does not absorb a majority of the funds™ expected losses 

or receive a majority of the fu
nds™ expected residual returns. 
Therefore, the Bancorp™s investmen
ts in these funds are included 
as other securities in the Banc
orp™s Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
 Loans Provided to VIEs 

The Bancorp has provided funding to certain unconsolidated VIEs 

sponsored by third parties. These 
VIEs are generally established to 
finance certain consumer and small business loans originated by 

third parties. The entities are pr
imarily funded through the issuance 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 90    Fifth Third Bancorp     
of a loan from the Bancorp or syndication through which the 
Bancorp is involved. The sponsor/administrator of the entities is 
responsible for servicing the underlying assets in the VIEs. Because 
the sponsor/administrator, not the Bancorp, holds the servicing 

responsibilities, which include 
the establishment and employment 
of default mitigation policies and procedures, the Bancorp does not 

hold the power to direct the acti
vities most significant to the 
economic performance of the entity and, therefore, is not the 

primary beneficiary. 
      The principle risk to which 
these entities are exposed is credit 
risk related to the underlying
 assets. The Bancorp™s maximum 
exposure to loss is equal to the carrying amounts of the loans and 

unfunded commitments to the VIEs. As of December 31, 2010 

and 2009, the Bancorp had outstanding loans to these VIEs of $1.2 

billion included in commercial loan
s in the Consolidated Balance 
Sheets. Also as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Bancorp™s 

unfunded commitments to these entities were $733 million and 

$539 million, respectively. The loans and unfunded commitments 
to these VIEs are included in the Bancorp™s overall analysis of the 
allowance for loan and lease losses and reserve for unfunded 

commitments, respectively. The Bancorp does not provide any 

implicit or explicit liquidity guaran
tees or principal value guarantees  
to these VIEs.  
Restructured Loans As part of loan restructuring efforts in 2009 and 2010, the Bancorp 

received equity capital from certain borrowers to facilitate the 

restructuring of the borrower™s debt. These borrowers meet the 
definition of a VIE because the Bancorp was involved in their 
refinancing and because their equity
 capital is insufficient to fund 
ongoing operations. These restructurings were intended to provide 

the VIEs with serviceable debt le
vels while providing the Bancorp 
an opportunity to maximize the recovery of the loans. The VIEs 
finance their operations from earn
ed income, capital contributions, 
and through restructured debt agreements. Assets of the VIEs are 
used to settle their specific obligations, including loan payments 

due to the Bancorp. The Bancorp continues to maintain its 

relationship with these VIEs as a 
lender and minority shareholder, 
however, it is not involved in management decisions and does not 

have sufficient voting rights to
 control the membership of the 
respective boards. Therefore, the Bancorp accounts for its equity 

investments in these VIEs under the equity method or cost 
method based on its percentage of ownership and ability to 
exercise significant influence. 
     The Bancorp™s maximum exposure to loss as a result of its 

involvement with these VIEs is limit
ed to the equity investments, 
the principal and accrued interest 
on the outstanding loans, and any unfunded commitments. Due to the VIEs™ short-term cash deficit 

projections at the restructuring dates, the Bancorp determined that 

the fair value of its equity invest
ments in these VIEs was zero. As 
of December 31, 2010, the Bancorp™s carrying value of these equity 
investments was zero. Additionally, as of December 31, 2010 and 

2009, the Bancorp had outstanding loans to these VIEs of $12 

million and $23 million, respectively, included in commercial loans 

in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The Bancorp™s unfunded loan 

commitments to these VIEs were $1 million as of December 31, 

2010 and 2009. The loans and unfu
nded commitments to these 
VIEs are included in the Bancorp™s overall analysis of the 
allowance for loan and lease losses and reserve for unfunded 
commitments, respectively. The Bancorp does not provide any 

implicit or explicit liquidity guaran
tees or principal value guarantees 
to these VIEs. 
   13. SALES OF RECEIVABLES AND SERVICING RIGHTS 
Residential Mortgage Loan Sales 
The Bancorp sold fixed and adjustable rate residential mortgage 
loans during 2010, 2009 and 2008. 
In those sales, the Bancorp 
obtained servicing responsibilities and the investors have no 

recourse to the Bancorp™s other assets for failure of debtors to pay 
when due. The Bancorp receives annual servicing fees based on a 
percentage of the outstanding balance. The Bancorp identifies 

classes of servicing assets based on financial asset type and interest 

rates.  
     
Information related to residential mortgage loan sales and the 
Bancorp™s mortgage banking activity
, which is included in mortgage banking net revenue in the Consolidated Statements of Income for 

the years ended December 31 is as follows:  

     ($ in millions) 
2010 
 2009    2008 
Residential mortgage loan sales 
$17,861 
 20,60511,529
   Origination fees and gains on loan sales 
490 
 485260
Servicing fees 
221 
 197164
 Servicing Assets   The following table presents changes in the servicing assets
 related to residential mortgage loans for the years ended: 
  ($ in millions) 
             2010 
2009 
Carrying amount as of the beginning of period  
$979 
752 
Servicing obligations that result from 
transfer of residential mortgage loans 
297 
373 
Amortization 
(138) 
(146) Carrying amount before valuation allowance 
1,138 
979 
Valuation allowance for servicing assets: 
    Beginning balance 
(280) 
(256)   Servicing impairment 
(36) 
(24)   Ending balance 
(316) 
(280) Carrying amount as of the end of the period 
$822 
699 
     
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                    Fifth Third Bancorp    91
 Temporary impairment or impairmen
t recovery, effected through a 
change in the MSR valuation 
allowance, is captured as a 
component of mortgage banking net revenue in the Consolidated 

Statements of Income. The Bancorp maintains a non-qualifying 
hedging strategy to manage a portion of the risk associated with 
changes in value of the MSR portfolio. This strategy includes the 
purchase of free-standing derivatives and various available-for-sale 
securities. The interest income, 
mark-to-market adjustments and 
gain or loss from sale activities 
associated with these portfolios are 
expected to economically hedge a portion of the change in value of 
the MSR portfolio caused by fluctuating discount rates, earnings 
rates and prepayment speeds. 
 
The fair value of the servicing asset is based on the present v
alue of expected future cash fl
ows. The following table displays
 the beginning and 
ending fair value for the years ended December 31: 

 ($ in millions) 
2010 
2009 
Fixed rate residential mortgage loans: 
   Fair value at beginning of period  
$667 
458 
 Fair value at end of period 
791 
667 
Adjustable rate residential mortgage loans: 
   Fair value at beginning of period  
32 
38 
 Fair value at end of period 
31 
32 
 The following table presents activity relat
ed to valuations of the MSR portfolio an
d the impact of the non-qualifying hedging s
trategy, which is 
included in the Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31: 
 ($ in millions) 
       2010 
  2009    2008 
Securities gains, net Œ non-qualifying hedges on MSRs 
$1457120
Changes in fair value and settlement of
 free-standing derivatives purchased 
    to economically hedge the MSR portfolio (Mortgage banking net revenue) 
1094189
Provision for MSR impairment (Mortgage banking net revenue)     
(36)(24)(207)
  As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the key economic assumptions 

used in measuring the interests that continued to be held by the 

Bancorp at the date of sale or securitization resulting from 
transactions completed during 
the years ended December 31, 2010 
and 2009 were as follows: 
  Based on historical credit experience, expected credit losses for 
residential mortgage loan servicing assets have been deemed 

immaterial, as the Bancorp sold the majority of the underlying 

loans without recourse. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the 

Bancorp was servicing $54.2 billion an
d $48.6 billion, respectively,  
of residential mortgage loans for other investors. The value of 
interests that continue to be held by the Bancorp is subject to 

credit, prepayment and interest rate risks on the sold financial 

assets. At December 31, 2010, the sensitivity of the current fair 

value of residual cash flows to immediate 10% and 20% adverse 

changes in those assumptions are as follows:  These sensitivities are hypothetical and should be used with 

caution. As the figures indicate, changes in fair value based on a 

10% and 20% variation in assumptions typically cannot be 

extrapolated because the relationsh
ip of the change in assumption 
to the change in fair value may not
 be linear. Also, in the previous 
table, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the fair 

value of the interests that continue to be held by the Bancorp is 

calculated without changing any other assumption; in reality, 

changes in one factor may result
 in changes in another (for 
example, increases in market inte
rest rates may result in lower 
prepayments and increased credit losses), which might magnify or 
counteract the sensitivities.  Automobile Loan Securitizations 
During 2008, the Bancorp sold $2.7 billion of automobile loans in 

three separate transactions, recogn
izing gains of $15 million, offset 
by $26 million in losses on related hedges. Each transaction 

isolated the related loans through the use of a securitization trust or 

a conduit, formed as QSPEs, to fa
cilitate the securitization process. 
The QSPEs issued asset-backed securities with varying levels of 
  December 31, 2010 
December 31, 2009 
 Rate 
Weighted-Average Life 
(in years) Prepayment Speed  
(annual) 
Discount Rate (annual) 
Weighted-Average Default Rate Weighted-Average 
Life (in years) 
Prepayment 
Speed 
(annual) 
Discount 
Rate (annual) 
Weighted-Average 
Default 
Rate Residential mortgage loans: 
   Servicing assets Fixed 
6.7 10.7%10.3%N/A 
6.612.0% 9.8%N/A 
 Servicing assets Adjustable 
3.6 23.3 11.3 N/A 
2.735.5 10.8 N/A 
      
   
   
Weighted-Average 
Life (in years) 
Prepayment Speed 
Assumption Residual Servicing Cash Flows 
Weighted-Average Default 
  Fair  
Impact of Adverse 
Change on Fair 
Value Discount 
Impact of Adverse 
Change on Fair 
Value  
Impact of Adverse 
Change on Fair 
Value 
($ in millions)   Rate Value Rate 10%20% Rate 10% 20% Rate 10% 20% 
Residential mortgage loans:    
 Servicing assets Fixed $791 5.913.0%($36)(70)10.6%($30) (58) - %$ --

 Servicing assets Adjustable 31 3.026.2(2)(3)11.9(1) (2) ---
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 92    Fifth Third Bancorp 
credit subordination and payment priority. The investors in these 
securities have no credit recourse to the Bancorp™s other assets for 
failure of debtors to pay when due. During 2008 and 2009, 
required repurchases of previously transferred automobile loans 

from the QSPE were immaterial to the Bancorp™s Consolidated 

Financial Statements. 
In each of these sales, the Bancorp obtained servicing 
responsibilities, but no servicing asset or liability was recorded as 

the market based servicing fee was considered adequate 

compensation. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, 
the Bancorp recognized $8 million and $9 million, respectively, of 
servicing fees on these automobile
 loans. The servicing fees are 
included in other noninterest 
income in the Consolidated 
Statements of Income. 
As of December 31, 2009, the Bancorp held retained interests 
in the QSPEs in the form of asset-backed securities totaling $63 

million and residual interests totaling $98 million. These retained 

interests were included in avail
able-for-sale securities in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets. During the years ended December 
31, 2009 and 2008, the Bancorp received cash flows of $4 million 

and $3 million, respectively, from 
the asset-backed securities and 
$34 million and $37 million, resp
ectively, from the residual 
interests. The asset-backed securi
ties were measured at fair value 
using quoted market prices for similar assets. The residual interests 

were measured at fair value base
d on the present value of future 
expected cash flows using manag
ement™s best estimates for the key 
assumptions.  Upon adoption on January 1, 2010 of the FASB guidance on 
the accounting for QSPEs and VIEs, the Bancorp determined that 

it is the primary beneficiary (and
 therefore consolidator) of these 
QSPEs. Refer to Note 1 for further details. 
 Commercial Loan Sales to a QSPE 
Through 2008, the Bancorp transferre
d, subject to credit recourse, 
certain primarily floating-rate, short-term, investment grade 
commercial loans to an unconsolidated QSPE that is wholly owned 
by an independent third-party. Th
e transfers of loans to the QSPE 
were accounted for as sales. The QSPE issued commercial paper 

and used the proceeds to fund the acquisition of commercial loans 

transferred to it by the Bancorp. The Bancorp did not transfer any 

new loans to the QSPE during 2009.  
For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the 
Bancorp collected $6 million and $13 million, respectively, in 
servicing fees from the QSPE. For the year ended December 31, 
2009, the Bancorp collected $334 million in net cash proceeds 

from loan transfers to the QSPE.  
Upon adoption on January 1, 2010 of the FASB guidance on 
the accounting for QSPEs and VIEs, the Bancorp determined that 

it is the primary beneficiary (and
 therefore consolidator) of this 
QSPE. Refer to Note 1 for further details. 
 The following table provides a summary of the total loans and le
ases managed by the Bancorp, in
cluding loans securitized and lo
ans in VIEs 
that were not consolidated prior to January 1,
 2010, as of and for the years ended December 31: 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  Balance Balance of Loans 90 
Days or More Past Due 
Net Credit 
Losses 
($ in millions) 
2010 
2009 
      2010 
2009 
2010 
2009 
Commercial and industrial loans 
$27,275
26,458$16 
118 
$586718Commercial mortgage 
10,992
11,936 11 
 59 
524422Commercial construction loans 
2,111
3,921  3 
  16 
252417Commercial leases 
3,3783,535  - 
    4 
28Residential mortgage loans 
10,857
9,795 100 
 189 
439355Home equity loans 
11,513
12,437 89 
 100 
264325Automobile loans 
10,983
10,226 13 
   18 
88156Other consumer loans and leases 
2,5982,802  42 
   65 
173190Total loans and leases managed and securitized 
(a) $79,707
81,110$274 
569 
$2,328
2,591Less: 
    Automobile loans securitized 
$ -1,230  Home equity loans securitized 
-263  Commercial loans sold to unconsolidated QSPE 
-771  Loans held for sale 
2,2162,067  Total portfolio loans and leases 
$77,491
76,779   (a) Excluding securitized assets that 
the Bancorp continues to service, but has no other continuing involvement.
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
     Fifth Third Bancorp    93 
14.  DERIVATIVES The Bancorp maintains an overall risk management strategy that 
incorporates the use of derivati
ve instruments to reduce certain 
risks related to interest rate, prepayment and foreign currency 

volatility. Additionally, the Bancorp holds derivative instruments 

for the benefit of its commercial customers. The Bancorp does not 
enter into unhedged speculative derivative positions. 
The Bancorp™s interest rate risk management strategy involves 
modifying the repricing characteristics of certain financial 

instruments so that changes in interest rates do not adversely affect 

the Bancorp™s net interest margin and cash flows. Derivative 

instruments that the Bancorp may use as part of its interest rate 

risk management strategy include interest rate swaps, interest rate 

floors, interest rate caps, forwar
d contracts, options and swaptions. 
Interest rate swap contracts are exchanges of interest payments, 
such as fixed-rate payments for fl
oating-rate payments, based on a 
common notional amount and maturity date. Interest rate floors 

protect against declining rates, while interest rate caps protect 

against rising interest rates. Fo
rward contracts are contracts in which the buyer agrees to purchase, and the seller agrees to make 

delivery of, a specific financial instrument at a predetermined price 

or yield. Options provide the purc
haser with the right, but not the 
obligation, to purchase or sell a c
ontracted item during a specified 
period at an agreed upon price. 
Swaptions are financial instruments 
granting the owner the right, but 
not the obligation, to enter into 
or cancel a swap. 
Prepayment volatility arises mostly
 from changes in fair value 
of the largely fixed-rate MSR portfolio, mortgage loans and 

mortgage-backed securities. The 
Bancorp may enter into various 
free-standing derivatives (princip
al-only swaps, swaptions, floors, 
options and interest rate swaps) to economically hedge prepayment 
volatility. Principal-only swaps are total return swaps based on 

changes in the value of the underlying mortgage principal-only 

trust.  Foreign currency volatility occurs as the Bancorp enters into 
certain loans denominated in 
foreign currencies. Derivative 
instruments that the Bancorp may use to economically hedge these 

foreign denominated loans include foreign exchange swaps and 
forward contracts. The Bancorp also enters into derivative contracts (including 
foreign exchange contracts, commodity contracts and interest rate 

swaps, floors and caps) for the benefit of commercial customers 

and other business purposes. The Bancorp may economically 

hedge significant exposures related to these free-standing 

derivatives by entering into offs
etting third-party contracts with 
approved, reputable counterparties with substantially matching 
terms and currencies. Credit risk arises from the possible inability 
of counterparties to meet the terms of their contracts. The 
Bancorp™s exposure is limited to the replacement value of the 
contracts rather than the notional,
 principal or contract amounts. 
Credit risk is minimized through credit approvals, limits, 

counterparty collateral and monitoring procedures.  
The Bancorp™s derivative assets consist primarily of contracts 
in which the Bancorp requires the counterparties to provide 
collateral in the form of cash and s
ecurities to offset changes in the 
fair value of the derivatives, incl
uding changes in the fair value due 
to credit risk of the counterparty. As of December 31, 2010 and 

2009, the balance of collateral held 
by the Bancorp for derivative 
assets was $903 million and $548 million, respectively. Valuation 

adjustments related to the credit
 risk associated with certain 
counterparties of customer a
ccommodation derivative contracts 
negatively impacted the fair value of those contracts by $2 million 
and $3 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.  
In measuring the fair value of derivative liabilities, the 
Bancorp considers its own credit 
risk, taking into consideration 
collateral maintenance requirements of certain derivative 

counterparties and the duration of 
instruments with counterparties 
that do not require collater
al maintenance. The Bancorp™s 
derivative liabilities consist primarily of contracts that require 
collateral to be maintained in the 
form of cash and securities to 
offset changes in fair value of th
e derivatives, including changes in 
fair value due to the Bancorp™s credit risk. As of December 31, 

2010 and 2009, the balance of collateral posted by the Bancorp for 

derivative liabilities was $680 million and $726 million, respectively. 

The posting of collateral has been determined to remove the need 

for consideration of credit risk. As a result, the Bancorp 

determined that the impact of the Bancorp™s credit risk to the 
valuation of its derivative liabilities was immaterial to the 
Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
The Bancorp holds certain deriva
tive instruments that qualify 
for hedge accounting treatment and are designated as either fair 

value hedges or cash flow hedges
. Derivative instruments that do 
not qualify for hedge accounting treatment, or for which hedge 

accounting is not established, are 
held as free-standing derivatives 
and provide the Bancorp an economic hedge. All customer 
accommodation derivatives are held as free-standing derivatives. The fair value of derivative instruments is presented on a 
gross basis, even when the deriva
tive instruments are subject to 
master netting arrangements. Der
ivative instruments with a 
positive fair value are reported in other assets in the Consolidated 

Balance Sheets while derivative instruments with a negative fair 

value are reported in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance 

Sheets. Cash collateral payables an
d receivables associated with the 
derivative instruments are not added to or netted against the fair 
value amounts. 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 94    Fifth Third Bancorp 
The following table reflects the notional amounts and fair values 
for all derivative instruments included in the Consolidated B
alance Sheets as 
of December 31:   
  2010 2009 
  Fair value 
 Fair value 
($ in millions) 
Notional Amount Derivative Assets 
Derivative Liabilities Notional 
Amount 
Derivative 
Assets 
Derivative 
Liabilities 
Qualifying hedging instruments
:      Fair value hedges: 
        
Interest rate swaps rela
ted to long-term debt 
$4,355
$442$ -
$5,155 
$275$ -
       Interest rate sw
aps related to time deposits 
---771 
-6    Total fair value hedges 
442-
 2756
    Cash flow hedges: 
        Interest rate 
floors related to C&I loans 
1,500153-
1,500 
162-
       Interest rate 
swaps related to C&I loans 
3,0008-3,500 
33-
       Interest rate ca
ps related to long-term debt 
1,5004-2,750 
44-
       Interest rate sw
aps related to long-term debt 
1,190-31
- --    Total cash flow hedges 
16531
 239-
Total derivatives designated as qualifying hedging instruments 
 60731
 5146
Derivatives not designated as qualifying hedging 
instruments 
 Free-standing derivatives Œ risk management and other 
business purposes: 
       Interest rate contra
cts related to MSRs 
12,477 
141 81 
8,592 
114 24 
   Forward contracts related to 
held for sale mortgage loans  
6,389 90 14 
3,633 33 2 
   Interest rate swaps related to long-term debt 
173 3 1 
410 4 2 
   Foreign exchange contracts for trading purposes 
2,494 4 4 
- - - 
   Put options associated with Processing Business Sale 
769 - 8 
667 - 9 
   Stock warrants associated with Processing Business Sale 
175 79 - 
152 75 - 
   Swap associated with the sale of Visa, Inc. Class B shares 
363 - 18 
522 - 55 
Total free-standing derivatives Œ risk management and other 
business purposes 
317 126 
226 92 
Free-standing derivatives - customer accommodation: 
         Interest rate contracts for customers 
26,817 
701 735 
28,628 
719 753 
   Interest rate lock commitments 
1,772 
9 9 1,489 
3 8    Commodity contracts  
1,878 
99 92 
805 
63 58 
   Foreign exchange contracts 
17,998 
339 319 
10,997 
206 169 
   Derivative instruments re
lated to equity linked CDs 
70 
2 2 113 
2 2     Total free-standing derivatives Œ customer accommodation 
1,150 1,157 
 993 990 
Total derivatives not designated as qualifying hedging 
instruments 
1,467 1,283 
 1,219 1,082 
Total $2,074 $1,314 
 $1,733 $1,088 
 Fair Value Hedges 
The Bancorp may enter into interest rate swaps to convert its 
fixed-rate, long-term debt or 
time deposits to floating-rate. 
Decisions to convert fixed-rate debt
 or time deposits to floating are 
made primarily through consideration of the asset/liability mix of 

the Bancorp, the desired asset/liability sensitivity and interest rate 

levels. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, certain 

interest rate swaps met the criteria required to qualify for the 

shortcut method of accounting. Based on this shortcut method of 

accounting treatment, no ineffectiveness is assumed. For interest 

rate swaps that do not meet the shortcut requirements, an 
assessment of hedge effectiveness was performed and such swaps 
were accounted for using the ﬁlong-haulﬂ method. The long-haul 
method requires a quarterly assessment of hedge effectiveness and 
measurement of ineffectiveness. Fo
r interest rate swaps accounted 
for as a fair value hedge using the long-haul method, 

ineffectiveness is the difference between the changes in the fair 

value of the interest rate swap and changes in fair value of the 

long-term debt attributable to the risk being hedged. The 

ineffectiveness on interest rate swaps hedging long-term debt or 

time deposits is reported within interest expense in the 

Consolidated Statements of Income. 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
   Fifth Third Bancorp    95 
The following table reflects the change in fair value of interest 
rate contracts, designated as fair value hedges, as well as t
he change in fair value 
of the related hedged items, included in 
the Consolidated Statements of Income: 
 For the year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 
Consolidated Statements of 
Income  Caption 
2010 
2009 2008 
Interest rate contracts:  
   Change in fair value of interest rate swaps he
dging long-term debt Interest on long-term debt 
$167 
(548) (776)
Change in fair value of hedged long-term debt Interest on long-term debt 
(168) 
538 765
Change in fair value of interest rate swaps hedging time deposits 
Interest on deposits 
6 4 (19)Change in fair value of hedged time deposits Interest on deposits 
(6) 
(3) 19 Cash Flow Hedges 
The Bancorp may enter into interest rate swaps to convert 
floating-rate assets and liabilities to fixed rates or to hedge certain 

forecasted transactions. The asse
ts or liabilities are typically 
grouped and share the same risk exposure for which they are 
being hedged. The Bancorp may also enter into interest rate caps 

and floors to limit cash flow variability of floating rate assets and 

liabilities. As of December 31, 2010, 
all hedges designated as cash 
flow hedges are assessed for effectiveness using regression 

analysis. Ineffectiveness is gene
rally measured as the amount by 
which the cumulative change in the fair value of the hedging 

instrument exceeds the present valu
e of the cumulative change in 
the hedged item™s expected cash flows. Ineffectiveness is reported 
within other noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements 

of Income. The effective portion of the gains or losses on cash 

flow hedges are reported within accumulated other 

comprehensive income and are reclassified from accumulated 

other comprehensive income to current period earnings when the 

forecasted transaction affects earnings. As of December 31, 2010, 

the maximum length of time over which the Bancorp is hedging 
its exposure to the variability in future cash flows related to the 
forecasted issuance of floating rate debt is 27 months. 
Reclassified gains and losses on interest rate floors and 
swaps related to commercial loans and interest rate caps and 

swaps related to debt are record
ed within interest income and 
interest expense, respectively. As of December 31, 2010 and 
2009, $67 million and $105 million, respectively, of deferred 
gains, net of tax, on cash flow hedges were recorded in 

accumulated other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 

2010, $45 million in net deferred g
ains, net of tax, recorded in 
accumulated other comprehensive income are expected to be 

reclassified into earnings during the next twelve months.  
The following table presents the net gains recorded in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income and accumulated other 
comprehensive income relating to interest rate contracts 
designated as cash flow hedges. Included in the ineffectiveness 

for the year ended December 31, 2010 are certain terminated 

interest rate caps previously designated as cash flow hedges on 

debt. In conjunction with these terminations, the Bancorp 

reclassified $17 million of lo
sses from accumulated other 
comprehensive income into earnings as it was determined that the 

original forecasted transaction was no longer probable of 
occurring by the end of the orig
inally specified time period or 
within the additional period of time as defined by U.S. GAAP. 
   Free-Standing Derivative Instruments Œ Risk Management 
and Other Business Purposes 
As part of its overall risk management strategy relative to its 

mortgage banking activity, the Bancorp may enter into various 

free-standing derivatives (pri
ncipal-only swaps, swaptions, 
floors, options and interest ra
te swaps) to economically hedge 
changes in fair value of its largely fixed-rate MSR portfolio. 
Principal-only swaps hedge the mortgage-LIBOR spread 

because these swaps appreciate in v
alue as a result of tightening 
spreads. Principal-only swaps also provide prepayment 

protection by increasing in value when prepayment speeds 

increase, as opposed to MSRs 
that lose value in a faster 
prepayment environment. Receive 
fixed/pay floating interest 
rate swaps and swaptions increase in value when interest rates 
do not increase as quickly as expected. 
The Bancorp enters into forward contracts to 
economically hedge the change in fair value of certain 

residential mortgage loans held for sale due to changes in 

interest rates. The Bancorp may also enter into forward swaps 

to economically hedge the change in fair value of certain 

commercial mortgage loans held for sale due to changes in 

interest rates. Interest rate lock commitments issued on 
residential mortgage loan commitments that will be held for 
sale are also considered free-standing derivative instruments 

and the interest rate exposure on these commitments is 

economically hedged primarily with forward contracts. 

Revaluation gains and losses from free-standing derivatives 

related to mortgage banking activity are recorded as a 
component of mortgage banking net revenue in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income. 
The Bancorp previously entered into foreign exchange 
derivative contracts to economically hedge certain foreign 

denominated loans. Derivative instruments that the Bancorp 

may use to economically hedge these foreign denominated 
loans include foreign exchange 
swaps and forward contracts. 
The Bancorp does not designate these instruments against the 

foreign denominated loans, and therefore, does not obtain 

hedge accounting treatment. Revaluation gains and losses on 

these foreign currency derivative contracts are recorded within 

other noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements of 

Income, as are revaluation 
gains and losses on foreign 
denominated loans.  
Additionally, the Bancorp may enter into free-standing 
derivative instruments (options
, swaptions and interest rate 
swaps) in order to minimize significant fluctuations in earnings 

and cash flows caused by interest rate and prepayment 

volatility. The gains and losses on these derivative contracts are 

recorded within other noninterest income in the Consolidated 

Statements of Income. 
In conjunction with the Processing Business Sale in 2009, 
the Bancorp received warrants an
d issued put options, which 
are accounted for as free-standing derivatives. Refer to Note 28 

for further discussion of signif
icant inputs and assumptions 
used in the valuation of these instruments. 
In conjunction with the sale of Visa, Inc. Class B shares in 
2009, the Bancorp entered into a 
total return swap in which 
For the year ended December 31: ($ in millions) 
         2010 
     2009     2008 
Amount of gain recognized in OCI 
$2 
75100
Amount of gain reclassified from
 OCI into net interest income 
60 
493
Amount of ineffectiveness recognized in other noninterest income 
6 (1)1
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 96     Fifth Third Bancorp      
the Bancorp will make or receive payments based on 
subsequent changes in the conversion rate of the Class B 
shares into Class A shares. This 
total return swap is accounted 
for as a free-standing derivative. See Note 28 for further 

discussion of significant inputs
 and assumptions used in the 
valuation of this instrument.  
The Bancorp enters into certain derivatives (forwards, 
futures and options) related to its foreign exchange business. 

These derivative contracts are not designated against specific 

assets or liabilities or to foreca
sted transactions. Therefore, 
these instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting. The 
Bancorp economically hedges the exposures related to these 
derivative contracts by entering 
into offsetting contracts with 
approved, reputable, independent counterparties with 

substantially similar terms. 
The net gains (losses) recorded in the Consolidated 
Statements of Income relating to free-standing derivative 

instruments used for risk management and other business 

purposes are summarized in the following table: 
 For the year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 
Consolidated Statements of  
Income Caption 
2010 
2009 2008 
Interest rate contracts:  
   Interest rate contracts related to MSR portfolio Mort
gage banking net revenue 
$109 
41 89 
Forward contracts related to commercial mortgage loans held for sale Corporate banking revenue 
 -  - (8) 
Forward contracts related to residential mortgage loans held fo
r sale Mortgage ba
nking net revenue 
40 
55 (17) 
Interest rate swaps related to long-term debt Other noninterest income 
2 3 1 Foreign exchange contracts:  
   Foreign exchange contracts for trading purposes Other noninterest income 
- (10) 29 
Equity contracts:  
   Warrants associated with Processing Business Sale Other noninterest income 
4 13 - 
Put options associated with Processing Business Sale Other noninterest income 
1 5 - Swap associated with sale of Visa, Inc. Class B shares Other noninterest income 
(19) 
(2) -  Free-Standing Derivative Instruments Œ Customer 
Accommodation 
The majority of the free-standi
ng derivative instruments the 
Bancorp enters into are for the benefit of its commercial 

customers. These derivative contracts are not designated against 

specific assets or liabilities on the Bancorp™s Consolidated Balance 

Sheets or to forecasted transacti
ons and, therefore, do not qualify 
for hedge accounting. These instruments include foreign 
exchange derivative contracts entered into for the benefit of 
commercial customers involved in 
international trade to hedge 
their exposure to foreign currency fluctuations and commodity 

contracts to hedge such items as
 natural gas and various other 
derivative contracts. The Bancorp may economically hedge 

significant exposures related to th
ese derivative contracts entered 
into for the benefit of customers by entering into offsetting 

contracts with approved, reputabl
e, independent counterparties 
with substantially matching terms. The Bancorp hedges its 
interest rate exposure on commercial customer transactions by 

executing offsetting swap agreements with primary dealers. 

Revaluation gains and losses on interest rate, foreign exchange, 

commodity and other commercial customer derivative contracts 

are recorded as a component of corporate banking revenue in the 

Consolidated Statements of Income.  
The Bancorp enters into risk participation agreements, under 
which the Bancorp assumes credit exposure relating to certain 
underlying interest rate derivative contracts. The Bancorp only 

enters into these risk participation agreements in instances in 

which the Bancorp has particip
ated in the loan that the 
underlying interest rate derivative
 contract was designed to hedge. 
The Bancorp will make payments under these agreements if a 

customer defaults on its obligation to perform under the terms of 

the underlying interest rate derivative contract. As of December 
31, 2010 and 2009, the total notional amount of the risk 
participation agreements was $851 million and $810 million, 

respectively, and the fair value was a liability of $1 million and $2 

million, respectively, at December 31, 2010 and 2009, which is 

included in interest rate contracts for customers. The Bancorp™s 

maximum exposure in the risk participation agreements is 

contingent on the fair value of the underlying interest rate 

derivative contracts in an asset pos
ition at the time of default. The 
Bancorp monitors the credit risk 
associated with the underlying 
customers in the risk participation agreements through the same 

risk grading system currently utilized for establishing loss reserves 

in its loan and lease portfolio. Unde
r this risk rating system as of 
December 31, 2010, $744 million in notional amount of the risk 

participation agreements were classified pass; $37 million were 

classified as special mention; $69 million were classified as 

substandard; and $1 million were classified as doubtful. As of 
December 31, 2010, the risk participation agreements had an 
average life of 1.9 years.  
The Bancorp previously offered its customers an equity-linked 
certificate of deposit that had a 
return linked to equity indices. 
Under U.S. GAAP, a certificate of deposit that pays interest 

based on changes on an equity index is a hybrid instrument that 

requires separation into a host contract (the certificate of deposit) 

and an embedded derivative contract (written equity call option). 
The Bancorp entered into offsetting derivative contracts to 
economically hedge the exposure taken through the issuance of 

equity-linked certificates of deposit. Both the embedded 

derivative and the derivative contract entered into by the Bancorp 

are recorded as free-standing de
rivatives and recorded at fair 
value with offsetting gains 
and losses recognized within 
noninterest income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.  
                 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Fifth Third Bancorp    97 
 The net gains (losses) recorded in the Consolidated Statements of
 Income relating to free-standing derivative instruments used 
for customer accommodation are summarized in the following table:  
 For the year ended December 31, ($ in millions) 
Consolidated Statements of 
Income Caption 
2010 
2009 2008 
Interest rate contracts: 
    Interest rate contracts for customers (contract revenue) Corporate banking revenue 
$26 
21 50 
Interest rate contracts for customers (credit losses) Other noninterest expense 
(22) 
(33) (5) 
Interest rate contracts for customers (credit component of fair value 
adjustment) Other noninterest expense 
(1) 
(7)  (27) 
Interest rate lock commitments
 Mortgage banking net revenue 
187 
129 54 
Commodity contracts: 
    Commodity contracts for customers (contract revenue) Corporate banking revenue 
8 6 7 Commodity contracts for customers (credit component of fair value 
adjustment) Other noninterest expense 
- 2 (3) Foreign exchange contracts: 
    Foreign exchange contracts for customers (contract revenue) Corporate banking revenue 
63 
76 106 
Foreign exchange contracts for customers (credit component of fair 
value adjustment) Other noninterest expense 
(1) 
2 (7)  15. OTHER ASSETS 
The following table provides the components of other assets in
cluded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31: 
 ($ in millions) 
20102009Derivative instruments $2,074
1,733Bank owned life insurance 
1,7151,763Partnership investments 
1,3671,179Accounts receivable and drafts-in-process 
1,023892OREO and other repossessed personal property 
532312Investment in FTPS Holding, LLC 
522521Accrued interest receivable 
413417Prepaid expenses 
133282Deferred tax asset 
1326Income tax receivable  
198Other 607328Total $8,400
7,551 The Bancorp incorporates the utiliz
ation of derivative instruments 
as part of its overall risk management strategy to reduce certain 

risks related to interest rate, prepayment and foreign currency 

volatility. The Bancorp also holds derivatives instruments for the 

benefit of its commercial customers. For further information on 

derivative instruments, see Note 14. The Bancorp purchases life insurance policies on the lives of 
certain directors, officers and 
employees and is the owner and 
beneficiary of the policies. The Bancorp invests in these policies, 

known as BOLI, to provide an efficient form of funding for long-

term retirement and other employee benefits costs. Therefore, the 

Bancorp™s BOLI policies are intended to be long-term investments 

to provide funding for future payment of long-term liabilities. The 

Bancorp records these BOLI policies within other assets in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets at each policy™s respective cash 
surrender value, with changes recognized in other noninterest 

income in the Consolidated Statements of Income.   
Certain BOLI policies have a st
able value agreement through 
either a large, well-rated bank or multi-national insurance carrier 

that provides limited cash surrend
er value protection from declines 
in the value of each policy™s un
derlying investments. During 2008 
and 2009, the value of the investments underlying one of the 
Bancorp™s BOLI policies continued to decline due to disruptions in 
the credit markets, widening of
 credit spreads between U.S. 
treasuries/swaps versus municipal bonds and bank trust preferred 

securities, and illiquidity in the 
asset-backed securities market. 
These factors caused the cash surrender value to decline further 

beyond the protection provided by the stable value agreement. As a 

result of exceeding the cash su
rrender value protection, the 
Bancorp recorded charges totaling $10 million and $215 million 
during 2009 and 2008, respectively, to reflect declines in the 
policy™s cash surrender value. Th
e cash surrender value of this 
BOLI policy was $237 million at December 31, 2009.   
During 2009, the Bancorp notified the related insurance 
carrier of its intent to surrender 
this BOLI policy. Due to the fact 
the Bancorp had not yet decided the manner in which it would 

surrender the policy, which may ha
ve impacted the cash surrender 
value protection, and because of ongoing developments in 
litigation with the insurance ca
rrier, the Bancorp recognized 
charges of $43 million in 2009 to fully reserve for the potential loss 

of the cash surrender value protect
ion associated with the policy. 
In addition, the Bancorp recognized tax benefits of $106 million in 

2009 related to losses recorded in prior periods on this policy that 

are now expected to be tax deductible. During 2010, an agreement to settle the claims with the 
insurance carrier was reached among the parties to the litigation. 
As a result of this settlement and the corresponding receipt of 

settlement proceeds from the insurance carrier in the third quarter 

of 2010, the Bancorp recorded $152 million in other noninterest 

income and $25 million associated with legal fees related to the 

settlement in other noninterest expense in the Bancorp™s 

Consolidated Statements of Income. 
  CDC, a partnership investment and wholly owned subsidiary 
of the Bancorp, was created to invest in projects to create 
affordable housing, revitalize business and residential areas, and 
preserve historic landmarks.
 The Bancorp has determined that 
these entities are VIEs and the Bancorp™s investments represent 

variable interests. See Note 12 for further information.  
On June 30, 2009, the Bancorp sold an approximate 51% 
interest in its Processing Business to Advent International. The 
resulting new company was named FTPS Holding, LLC. The 

Bancorp™s remaining approximate 49% ownership in FTPS is 

accounted for under the equity method of accounting.  
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 98    Fifth Third Bancorp     
16. SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS 
Borrowings with original maturities of one year or less are 
classified as short term, and include federal funds purchased and 

other short-term borrowings. Federal funds purchased are excess 
balances in reserve accounts held at Federal Reserve Banks that 
the Bancorp purchased from other member banks on an 

overnight basis. Other short-term
 borrowings include securities 
sold under repurchase agreements, derivative collateral, FHLB 
advances and other borrowings with original maturities of one 

year or less.  
       A summary of short-term borrowings and weighted-average 
rates follows:  2010 
2009 
($ in millions) 
Amount Rate 
Amount Rate 
As of December 31: 
  Federal funds purchased 
$2790.18% 
$1820.11%
 Other short-term borrowings 
1,5740.14 
1,4150.16 
Average for the years ended December 31: 
  Federal funds purchased 
$2910.17% 
$5170.20%
 Other short-term borrowings 
1,6350.21 
6,4630.64 
Maximum month-end balance for 
the years ended December 31: 
  Federal funds purchased 
$422 
$1,160
 Other short-term borrowings 
1,975 
11,076 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Fifth Third Bancorp    99 
17. LONG-TERM DEBT The following table is a summary of the Bancorp™s long-term borrowings at December 31: 
 ($ in millions) MaturityInterest Rate 
2010
2009
Parent Company 
 Senior: 
 Fixed-rate notes
 20136.25% 
$797
785
Subordinated: 
(b)
  Floating-rate notes 
 20160.72% 
250
250
Fixed-rate notes  20175.45% 
613572
Fixed-rate notes
  20184.50% 
584
533
Fixed-rate notes  20388.25% 
1,0341,024
Junior subordinated: 
(a)
  Fixed-rate notes 
(c)
 20676.50% 
750
750
Fixed-rate notes 
(c)
 20677.25% 
613606
Fixed-rate notes 
(c)
 20677.25% 
907
886
Fixed-rate notes 
(c)
 20688.88% 
400
389
Subsidiaries 
 Senior: 
 Floating-rate bank notes 20130.39% 
499
500
Fixed-rate bank notes
  -804
Subordinated: 
(b)
  Fixed-rate bank notes  20154.75% 
561544
Junior subordinated: 
(a)
  Floating-rate bank notes  2032 - 20333.40% - 4.15% 
5152Floating-rate debentures 
 2033 - 20343.09% - 3.20% 
6767Floating-rate debentures 
 20351.72% - 1.99% 
6262FHLB advances 2011 - 20400% - 8.34% 
1,5612,564
Notes associated with consolidated VIEs: 
 Automobile loan securitizations: 
 Fixed-rate notes 20134.81% 
99-Floating-rate notes 2013 - 20150.76% - 2.26% 
460
-Home equity securitization: 
 Floating-rate notes 20230.51% 
133-Other 2011 - 2039Varies 
117119
Total 
 $9,558
10,507
(a)  Qualify as Tier I capital for regulatory capita
l purposes. See Note 29 for further information. 
(b)  Qualify as Tier II capital for regulatory capital purposes. 
(c)  Future periods of debt are floating. 
 The Bancorp pays down long-term debt in accordance with 
contractual terms over maturity 
periods summarized in the above 
table. Contractually obligated payments for long-term debt as of 
December 31, 2010 are due over the following periods: $14 
million in 2011; $15 million in 2012, $1.9 billion in 2013, $30 

million in 2014, $1.0 billion in 2015 and $6.6 billion after 2015.  

     At December 31, 2010 the Bancorp had outstanding principal 

balances of $9.1 billion, discounts and premiums of negative $15 

million and additions for mark-to-market adjustments on its 

hedged debt of $439 million. At December 31, 2009, the Bancorp 

had outstanding principal balances 
of $10.2 billion, discounts and 
premiums of negative $15 mil
lion and additions for mark-to-
market adjustments on its hedged debt of $272 million. The 

Bancorp is in compliance with all debt covenants at December 31, 

2010. Under recent regulatory developments, certain of the 
Bancorp™s trust preferred securities are callable at par as of certain 

dates, or may become callable at par under certain circumstances.  
 Parent Company Long-Term Borrowings 
In April 2008, the Bancorp issued $750 million of senior notes to 

third party investors. The senior notes bear a fixed rate of interest 

of 6.25% per annum. The Bancorp entered into interest rate 

swaps to convert $675 million to floating rate and, at December 

31, 2010, paid a rate of 2.70%. Th
e notes are unsecured, senior 
obligations of the Bancorp. Paymen
t of the full principal amount 
of the notes will be due upon maturity on May 1, 2013. The notes 

are not subject to redemption at the Bancorp's option at any time 
prior to maturity.  The subordina
ted floating-rate notes due in 
2016 pay interest at three-month LIBOR plus 42 bp. The Bancorp 

has entered into interest rate swaps to convert its subordinated 

fixed-rate notes due in 2017 and 2018 to floating-rate, which pay 
interest at three-month LIBOR plus 42 bp and 25 bp, respectively, 
at December 31, 2010. The rates paid on the swaps hedging the 

subordinated floating-rate notes due in 2017 and 2018 were 0.72% 
and 0.55%, respectively, at December 31, 2010. Of the $1.0 billion 
in 8.25% subordinated fixed rate notes due in 2038, $705 million 

were subsequently hedged to floati
ng and paid a rate of 3.35% at 
December 31, 2010.  
The 6.50% junior subordinated 
notes due in 2067 pay a fixed 
rate of 6.50% until 2017, then convert to a floating rate at three-

month LIBOR plus 137 bp until 2047. Thereafter, the notes pay a 

floating rate at one-month LIBOR plus 237 bp. Junior 
subordinated notes due in 2067, with a carrying amount of $613 
million and an outstanding principal balance of $575 million at 

December 31, 2010, pay a fixed rate of 7.25% until 2057, then 

convert to a floating rate at three-month LIBOR plus 257 bp. The 

Bancorp entered into interest rate swaps to convert $500 million 

of the fixed-rate debt into a floating rate. At
 December 31, 2010, 
the weighted-average rate paid on these swaps was 1.01%. Junior 

subordinated notes due in 2067, with a carrying amount of $907 
million and an outstanding principal balance of $863 million at 
December 31, 2010, pay a fixed rate of 7.25% until 2057, then 

convert to a floating rate at three-month LIBOR plus 303 bp 

thereafter. The Bancorp entered into interest rate swaps to 

convert $700 million of the fixed-rate debt into a floating rate. At 

December 31, 2010, the weighted-ave
rage rate paid on the swaps 
was 1.44%. The obligations were issued to Fifth Third Capital 

Trusts IV, V and VI, respectively. The Bancorp has fully and 
unconditionally guaranteed a
ll obligations under the trust 
preferred securities issued by Fi
fth Third Capital Trusts IV, V and 
VI. In addition, the Bancorp entered into replacement capital 

covenants for the benefit of holders of long-term debt senior to 

the junior subordinated notes th
at limits, subject to certain 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 100    Fifth Third Bancorp     
 restrictions, the Bancorp™s ability to redeem the junior 
subordinated notes prior to th
eir scheduled maturity. In 
November 2010, the Bancorp amended the debt covenants to 
remove a requirement to issue re
placement capital securities at 
least 180 days prior to calling the trust preferred securities. 
The 8.88% junior subordinated notes due in 2068, with a 
current carrying value and outstanding principal balance of $400 

million at December 31, 2010, pay a fixed rate until 2058, then 

convert to floating rate at three month LIBOR plus 500 bp. The 

Bancorp entered into an interest 
rate swap to convert $275 million 
of the fixed rate debt into a floating rate. At December 31, 2010, 
the rate paid on the swap was 3.54%. The obligations were issued 

by Fifth Third Capital Trust VII.
 The Bancorp™s obligations under 
the transaction documents, taken 
together, have the effect of 
providing a full and unconditional guarantee by the Bancorp, on a 

subordinated basis, of the payment obligations under the trust 

preferred securities. The juni
or subordinated notes may be 
redeemed at the option of the Bancorp on or after May 15, 2013, 
or in certain other limited circumstances, at a redemption price of 
100% of the principal amount plus
 accrued but unpaid interest. 
All redemptions are subject to certain conditions and generally 

require approval by the FRB.  
On January 25, 2011, the Bancorp issued $1.0 billion of 
senior notes to third party investors. The senior notes bear a fixed 

rate of interest of 3.625% per annum. The notes are unsecured, 

senior obligations of the Bancor
p. Payment of the full principal 
amount of the notes will be du
e upon maturity on January 25, 
2016. The notes will not be subject to the redemption at the 

Bancorp™s option at any time prior to maturity. See Note 32 for 

further information. 
 Subsidiary Long-Term Borrowings 
Medium-term senior notes and subordinated bank notes with 

maturities ranging from one year to
 30 years can be issued by the 
Bancorp™s subsidiary bank, of wh
ich $1.0 billion was outstanding 
at December 31, 2010 with $19.0 billion available for future 

issuance. The senior floating-rat
e bank notes due in 2013 pay a 
floating rate at three-month LIBOR plus 11 bp. For the 

subordinated fixed-rate bank not
es due in 2015, the Bancorp 
entered into interest rate swaps to
 convert the fixed-rate debt into 
floating rate. At December 31, 2010, the weighted-average rate 

paid on the swaps was 0.39%. 
The senior fixed-rate bank notes matured and were paid in 
February of 2010.  
The junior subordinated floati
ng-rate bank notes due in 2032 
and 2033 were assumed by a subsidiary of the Bancorp as part of 
the acquisition of RG Crown in November 2008. Two of the 
notes due in 2032 and 2033 pay floating rates at three-month 
LIBOR plus 325 and 310 bp, resp
ectively. A third note, due in 
2032, pays a floating rate at six-month LIBOR plus 370 bp.  
The three-month LIBOR plus 290 bp and the three-month 
LIBOR plus 279 bp junior subordinated debentures due in 2033 

and 2034, respectively, were assumed by a subsidiary of the 

Bancorp in connection with the ac
quisition of First National Bank 
in 2005. The obligations were issu
ed to FNB Statutory Trusts I 
and II, respectively. 
The junior subordinated floati
ng-rate bank notes due in 2035 
were assumed by a subsidiary of
 the Bancorp as part of the 
acquisition of First Charter in
 May 2008. The obligations were 
issued to First Charter Capital Trust I and II, respectively. The 

notes of First Charter Capital Trust I and II pay floating at three-

month LIBOR plus 169 bp and 142 bp, respectively. The Bancorp 

has fully and unconditionally guaranteed all obligations under the 
acquired trust preferred securities
 issued by First Charter Capital 
Trust I and II. At December 31, 2010, FHLB advances have rates ranging 
from 0% to 8.34%, with interest payable monthly. The advances 

are secured by certain residential mortgage loans and securities 

totaling $12.7 billion. At Decemb
er 31, 2010, $500 million of 
FHLB advances are floating-rate. The Bancorp entered into an 

interest rate swap with a notional value of $500 million to convert 
the floating-rate advances to a fi
xed rate of 2.63%. In November 
2010, the Bancorp repaid a floating-rate advance of $1.0 billion 

due in 2012 and terminated the interest rate cap associated with 

this advance. The Bancorp r
ecognized a gain on this 
extinguishment of debt of $1 million. The $1.6 billion in advances 

mature as follows: $2 million in 2011, $500 million in 2013, $3 

million in 2014, $5 million in 2015 and $1.1 billion thereafter. As previously discussed in Note 12, the Bancorp was 
determined to be the primary beneficiary of VIEs associated with 
certain automobile loan and ho
me equity securitizations and, 
effective January 1, 2010, these VI
Es have been consolidated in 
the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements. As of 

December 31, 2010, the outstanding long-term debt associated 

with the automobile loan securitizations and home equity 

securitization was $559 million and $133 million, respectively. 

Third-party holders of this debt do not have recourse to the 
general assets of the Bancorp.  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Fifth Third Bancorp    101 
18.  COMMITMENTS, CONTINGENT LI
ABILITIES AND GUARANTEES  
The Bancorp, in the normal course of business, enters into 
financial instruments and various agreements to meet the 

financing needs of its customers. The Bancorp also enters into 

certain transactions and agreements 
to manage its interest rate and 
prepayment risks, provide funding, equipment and locations for 
its operations and invest in it
s communities. These instruments 
and agreements involve, to vary
ing degrees, elements of credit 
risk, counterparty risk and market
 risk in excess of the amounts 
recognized in the Bancorp™s C
onsolidated Balance Sheets. The 
creditworthiness of counterparties for all instruments and 

agreements is evaluated on a case-by-case basis in accordance with 

the Bancorp™s credit policies. The Bancorp™s significant 

commitments, contingent liabilities and guarantees in excess of 
the amounts recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets are 
discussed in further detail as follows:  Commitments  

The Bancorp has certain commitments to make future payments 

under contracts. The following table reflects a summary of 

significant commitments as of December 31: 
 ($ in millions) 
   2010 
   2009 
Commitments to extend credit 
$43,677 
42,591 
Forward contracts to sell mortgage loans 
6,389 
3,633 
Letters of credit  
5,516 
6,657 
Noncancelable lease obligations 
869 
906 
Capital commitments for private equity 
investments 
193 
90 
Purchase obligations 
64 
25 
Capital expenditures 
48 
27 
Capital lease obligations 
32 
44 
 Commitments to extend credit 

Commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend, typically 
having fixed expiration dates or 
other termination clauses that 
may require payment of a fee. Since many of the commitments to 

extend credit may expire wit
hout being drawn upon, the total 
commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash 

flow requirements. The Bancorp is 
exposed to credit risk in the 
event of nonperformance by the counterparty for the amount of 

the contract. Fixed-rate commitmen
ts are also subject to market 
risk resulting from fluctuations in
 interest rates and the Bancorp™s 
exposure is limited to the replacement value of those 
commitments. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Bancorp 

had a reserve for unfunded commitments totaling $227 million 

and $294 million, respectively, in
cluded in other liabilities in the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

 
Forward contracts to sell mortgage loans 

The Bancorp enters into forward contracts to economically hedge 
the change in fair value of certain residential mortgage loans held 
for sale due to changes in interest rates. The outstanding notional 

amounts of these forward contracts were $6.4 billion and $3.6 

billion as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. 

 
Letters of credit 

Standby and commercial letters of credit are conditional 

commitments issued to guarantee 
the performance of a customer 
to a third party and as of December 31, 2010, are summarized by 
expiration in the following table: 

 
 
 
 
 
  ($ in millions)  
Less than 1 year 
(a) $2,367
1-5 years (a) 2,933
Over 5 years 216
Total $5,516
(a)
  Includes $67 of less than 1 year and $1 of 1-5 years issued on behalf of commercial 
customers to facilitate trade payments in U.S. dollars and foreign currencies. 
 Standby letters of credit accounted for 99% of total letters of 

credit at December 31, 2010 and 2009 and are considered 
guarantees in accordance with 
U.S. GAAP. Approximately 54% 
and 58% of the total standby letters of credit were secured as of 

December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In the event of 

nonperformance by the customers, the Bancorp has rights to the 

underlying collateral, which ca
n include commercial real estate, physical plant and property, inventory, receivables, cash and 

marketable securities. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the 

reserve related to these standby letters of credit was $10 million 
and $6 million, respectively. The Bancorp monitors the credit risk 
associated with letters of credit using the same risk rating system 

utilized for establishing loss rese
rves within its loan and lease 
portfolio. Risk ratings as of December 31, 2010 under this risk 

rating system are summarized in the following table: 
 ($ in millions)  
Pass $4,944Special mention
 193Substandard 360

Doubtful 17

Loss 2
Total $5,516
 At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Bancorp had outstanding 
letters of credit that were suppor
ting certain securities issued as 
VRDNs. The Bancorp facilitates financing for its commercial 

customers, which consist of companies and municipalities, by 

marketing the VRDNs to investors. The VRDNs pay interest to 

holders at a rate of interest th
at fluctuates based upon market 
demand. The VRDNs generally have long-term maturity dates, 

but can be tendered by the holder 
for purchase at par value upon 
proper advance notice. When the VRDNs are tendered, a 
remarketing agent generally finds another investor to purchase the 
VRDNs to keep the securities outstanding in the market. As of 

December 31, 2010 and 2009, FTS acted as the remarketing agent 

to issuers on $3.4 billion of VRDNs. As remarketing agent, FTS is 

responsible for finding purchasers for VRDNs that are put by 

investors. The Bancorp issues letters of credit, as a credit 

enhancement, to the VRDNs remarketed by FTS, in addition to 

$563 million and $936 million in VRDNs remarketed by third 
parties at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These letters 
of credit are included in the tot
al letters of credit balance provided 
in the previous table. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, FTS held 

$1 million and $47 million, respectively, of these VRDNs in its 

portfolio and classified them as 
trading securities. At December 
31, 2010 and 2009 the Bancorp held $105 million and $188 

million, respectively, of VRDNs which were purchased from the 

market, through FTS and held in its trading securities portfolio. 
For the VRDNs remarketed by third parties, in some cases, the 
remarketing agent has failed to remarket the securities and has 

instructed the indenture trustee to draw upon $11 million and $45 

million of letters of credit issued by the Bancorp at December 31, 

2010 and 2009, respectively. The Banc
orp recorded these draws as 
commercial loans in its Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 102    Fifth Third Bancorp       
Noncancelable lease obligations and other commitments 
The Bancorp™s subsidiaries have
 entered into a number of 
noncancelable lease agreements. The minimum rental 
commitments under noncancelable lease agreements are shown in 

the summary of commitments table. The Bancorp or its 

subsidiaries have also entered into a limited number of agreements 

for work related to banking center construction and to purchase 

goods or services. 

 
Contingent Liabilities 
 Private mortgage reinsurance 
 For certain mortgage loans originated by the Bancorp, borrowers 

may be required to obtain PMI provided by third-party insurers. 

In some instances, these insurers cede a portion of the PMI 

premiums to the Bancorp, and the Bancorp provides reinsurance 

coverage within a specified range of the total PMI coverage. The 

Bancorp™s reinsurance coverage typically ranges from 5% to 10% 
of the total PMI coverage. The Bancorp™s maximum exposure in 
the event of nonperformance by the underlying borrowers is 

equivalent to the Bancorp's 
total outstanding reinsurance coverage, which was $122 million and $182 million at December 

31, 2010 and 2009, respectivel
y. As of December 31, 2010 and 
2009, the Bancorp maintained a reserve of $42 million and $44 

million, respectively, related to 
exposures within the reinsurance 
portfolio. During the second quarter of 2009, the Bancorp 
suspended the practice of providing reinsurance of private 
mortgage insurance for newly originated mortgage loans. In the 

third quarter of 2010, the Bancorp allowed one of its third-party 

insurers to terminate its reinsu
rance agreement with the Bancorp, 
resulting in the Bancorp releasin
g collateral to the insurer in the 
form of investment securities an
d other assets with a carrying 
value of $19 million, and the insurer assuming the Bancorp™s 

obligations under the reinsurance agreement, resulting in a 
decrease to the Bancorp™s reserve liability of $20 million and 
decrease in the Bancorp™s maximum exposure of $53 million.
  
Legal claims 

There are legal claims pending against the Bancorp and its 

subsidiaries that have arisen in 
the normal course of business. See 
Note 19 for additional information regarding these proceedings. 
 Guarantees 

The Bancorp has performance obligations upon the occurrence of 

certain events under financial gu
arantees provided in certain 
contractual arrangements as discu
ssed in the following sections.  
 
Residential mortgage loans sold with credit recourse 
The Bancorp previously sold certain residential mortgage loans in 

the secondary market with credit recourse. In the event of any 
customer default, pursuant to th
e credit recourse provided, the 
Bancorp is required to reimburse the third party. The maximum 

amount of credit risk in the event of nonperformance by the 

underlying borrowers is equiv
alent to the total outstanding 
balance. In the event of nonperformance, the Bancorp has rights 

to the underlying collateral 
value securing the loan. The 
outstanding balances on these loans 
sold with credit recourse were 
$916 million at December 31, 2010 and $1.1 billion at December 
31, 2009 and the delinquency rates were approximately 8.7% and 
8.1%, respectively. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Bancorp 

maintained an estimated credit loss reserve on these loans sold 

with credit recourse of  $16 mi
llion and $21 million, respectively, 
recorded in other liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. To 

determine the credit loss reserve, the Bancorp used an approach 

that is consistent with its overall approach in estimating credit 

losses for residential mortgage loans held in its loan portfolio.  
 Residential mortgage loans sold with representation and warranty provisions 
Conforming residential mortgage loans sold to unrelated third 
parties are generally sold with representation and warranty 
provisions. A contractual liability 
arises only in the event of a 
breach of these representations and warranties and, in general, 

only when a loss results from the breach. The Bancorp may be 

required to repurchase any previously sold loan or indemnify 

(make whole) the investor or insurer for which the representation 

or warranty of the Bancorp proves to be inaccurate, incomplete or 

misleading. The Bancorp establishes a residential mortgage repurchase 
reserve related to various representations and warranties that 

reflect management™s estimate of losses based on a combination 

of factors. Such factors incorpor
ate historical investor audit and 
repurchase demand rates, appeal
s success rates and historical loss 
severity. At the time of a loan sale, the Bancorp records a 

representation and warranty reserve at the estimated fair value of 
the Bancorp™s guarantee and continually updates the reserve 
during the life of the loan as losses in excess of the reserve 
become probable and reasonably estimable. The provision for the 

estimated fair value of the repr
esentation and warranty guarantee 
arising from the loan sale is reco
rded as an adjustment to the gain 
on sale, which is included in other noninterest income at the time 

of sale. Updates to the reserve are recorded in other noninterest 

expense. The majority of repurchase demands occur within the 

first 36 months following origination. 
As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Bancorp maintained 
reserves related to these loan
s sold with representation and 
warranty provisions totaling $85 million and $37 million, 

respectively. The following table summarizes activity in the 

reserve for representation and warranty provisions for the years 

ended December 31: 
 Liquidity support and credit
 enhancement agreement 
Through 2008, the Bancorp had transferred at par, subject to 
credit recourse, certain primarily floating-rate, short-term 

investment grade commercial loans to a VIE, which prior to 
January 1, 2010, was an unconsolidated special purpose entity 

wholly-owned by an independen
t third party. The VIE issued 
asset-backed commercial paper and used the proceeds to fund the 

acquisition of commercial loans transferred to it by the Bancorp. 

Generally, the loans transferred to the VIE provided a lower yield 
due to their investment grade nature and, therefore, transferring 
these loans allowed the Bancorp to reduce its interest rate 

exposure to these lower yielding lo
an assets while maintaining the 
customer relationships. The outsta
nding balance of these loans at 
December 31, 2009 was $771 million. At December 31, 2009, the 

Bancorp™s loss reserve related to the credit enhancement provided 

to the VIE was $45 million and was recorded in other liabilities in 

the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
To determine the credit loss 
reserve, the Bancorp used an approach that was consistent with its 
overall approach in estimating cred
it losses for various categories 
of commercial loans held in its loan portfolio.  
In the event the VIE was unable to issue commercial paper, 
the Bancorp agreed to provide liquidity support in the form of a 

line of credit and the repurchase of assets from the VIE. As of 

December 31, 2009, the liquidity asset purchase agreement was 

$1.4 billion. In addition, due to
 dislocation in the short-term 
funding market which caused th
e VIE difficulty in obtaining 
sufficient funding through the i
ssuance of commercial paper, the 
Bancorp purchased commercial paper from the VIE throughout 

2008 and 2009. As of December 31, 2009, the Bancorp held $805 
($ in millions) 
20102009Balance, beginning of period 
$3712   Net additions to the reserve 
11565   Losses charged against the reserve 
(67)(40)Balance, end of period 
$8537NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
   Fifth Third Bancorp    103
 million of commercial paper issued by the VIE, representing 87% 
of the VIE™s total commercial paper then outstanding. Effective 

January 1, 2010 with the adoption of amended accounting 

guidance regarding the consolidation of VIEs, the Bancorp was 
required to consolidate the assets 
and liabilities of this VIE. See 
Note 1 for further information on the amended accounting 

guidance. 
 
Margin accounts 

FTS, a subsidiary of the Bancorp, guarantees the collection of all 

margin account balances held by its brokerage clearing agent for 

the benefit of its customers. FTS is responsible for payment to its 
brokerage clearing agent for any loss, liability, damage, cost or 
expense incurred as a result of customers failing to comply with 

margin or margin maintenance calls on all margin accounts. The 

margin account balance held by th
e brokerage clearing agent was 
$10 million and $8 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, 

respectively. In the event of any 
customer default, FTS has rights 
to the underlying collateral provided. Given the existence of the 

underlying collateral provided an
d negligible historical credit 
losses, the Bancorp does not maintain a loss reserve related to the 
margin accounts. 
 
Long-term borrowing obligations 
The Bancorp had fully and unconditionally guaranteed certain 

long-term borrowing obligations i
ssued by wholly-owned issuing 
trust entities with a carrying value of $2.9 billion and $2.8 billion 

as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. See Note 17 for 
further information on these long-term borrowing obligations. 
 
Visa litigation 
The Bancorp, as a member bank of Visa prior to Visa™s 

reorganization and initial public offerings of its Class A common 

shares in 2008, had certain indemnif
ication obligations pursuant to Visa™s certificate of incorporation and by-laws and in accordance 

with their membership agreements. In accordance with Visa™s by-
laws prior to the IPO, the Bancorp could have been required to 
indemnify Visa for the Bancorp™s proportional share of losses 

based on the pre-IPO membership interests. As part of its 

reorganization and IPO, the Bancorp™s indemnification obligation 

was modified to include only certain known litigation (the 

ﬁCovered Litigationﬂ) as of the date of the restructuring. This 

modification triggered a requiremen
t to recognize a $3 million 
liability for the year ended December
 31, 2007 equal to the fair 
value of the indemnification obligation. Additionally during 2007, 
the Bancorp recorded $169 million for its share of litigation 

formally settled by Visa and fo
r probable future litigation 
settlements. In conjunction with the IPO, the Bancorp received 

10.1 million of Visa™s Class B shares based on the Bancorp™s 

membership percentage in Visa prior to the IPO. The Class B 

shares are not transferable (other than to another member bank) 

until the later of the third anniversary of the IPO closing or the 
date which the Covered Litigation has been resolved; therefore, 
the Bancorp™s Class B shares were 
classified in other assets and 
accounted for at their carryover 
basis of $0. Visa deposited $3 
billion of the proceeds from the IPO into a litigation escrow 

account, established for the pur
pose of funding judgments in, or 
settlements of, the Covered Liti
gation. If Visa™s litigation 
committee determines that the escrow
 account is insufficient, then 
Visa will issue additi
onal Class A shares and deposit the proceeds 
from the sale of the shares into
 the litigation escrow account. 
When Visa funds the litigation escr
ow account, the Class B shares 
are subject to dilution through an
 adjustment in the conversion 
rate of Class B shares into Class A shares. During 2008, the 

Bancorp recorded additional reserves of $71 million for probable 

future settlements related to the Covered Litigation and recorded 

its proportional share of $169 million of the Visa escrow account 

net against the Bancorp™s litigation reserve.  
During 2009, Visa announced it
 had deposited an additional 
$700 million into the litigation escrow
 account. As a result of this 
funding, the Bancorp recorded its proportional share of $29 

million of these additional funds as a reduction to its net Visa 
litigation reserve liability and a redu
ction to noninterest expense. 
Later in 2009, the Bancorp completed the sale of its Visa, Inc. 

Class B shares for proceeds of $300 million. As part of this 

transaction the Bancorp entered into
 a total return swap in which 
the Bancorp will make or receive payments based on subsequent 

changes in the conversion rate of the Class B shares into Class A 

shares. The swap terminates on th
e later of the third anniversary 
of Visa™s IPO or the date on which the Covered Litigation is 
finally settled. The Bancorp calculates the fair value of the swap 
based on its estimate of the probability and timing of certain 

Covered Litigation settlement scenarios and the resulting 

payments related to the swap. The counterparty to the swap as a 

result of its ownership of the C
lass B shares will be impacted by 
dilutive adjustments to the conver
sion rate of the Class B shares 
into Class A shares caused by any Covered Litigation losses in 

excess of the litigation escrow acco
unt. If actual judgments in, or 
settlements of, the Covered Litiga
tion significantly exceed current 
expectations, then additional funding by Visa of the litigation 

escrow account and the resulting 
dilution of the Class B shares 
could result in a scenario where the Bancorp™s ultimate exposure 

associated with the Covered Litigation (the ﬁVisa Litigation 

Exposureﬂ) exceeds the value of the Class B shares owned by the 

swap counterparty (the ﬁClass 
B Valueﬂ). In the event the 
Bancorp concludes that it is pr
obable that the Visa Litigation 
Exposure exceeds the Class B Valu
e, the Bancorp would record a 
litigation reserve liability and a corresponding amount of other 

noninterest expense for the amount of the excess. Any such 

litigation reserve liability would be separate and distinct from the 

fair value derivative liability associated with the total return swap. 
As of the date of the Bancorp™s sale of Visa Class B shares 
and through December 31, 2010, the Bancorp has concluded that 

it is not probable that the Visa
 Covered Litigation Exposure will 
exceed the Class B Value. Based on this determination, upon the 
sale of Class B shares, the Bancorp reversed its net Visa litigation 

reserve liability and recognized a fr
ee-standing derivative liability 
associated with the total return sw
ap with an initial fair value of 
$55 million. The sale of the Cla
ss B shares, recognition of the 
derivative liability and reversal of the net litigation reserve liability 

resulted in a pre-tax benefit of $288 million ($187 million after-

tax) recognized by the Bancorp for the year ended December 31, 
2009. In the second quarter of 2010, Visa funded an additional 
$500 million into the escrow account which resulted in further 

dilution in the conversion of Class B shares into Class A shares 

and required the Bancorp to make a $20 million cash payment 

(which reduced the swap liability) 
to the swap counterparty in 
accordance with the terms of the swap contract. In the fourth 

quarter of 2010, Visa funded an additional $800 million into the 

litigation escrow account which resulted in further dilution in the 
conversion of Class B shares into Class A shares and required the 
Bancorp to make a $35 million ca
sh payment (which reduced the 
swap liability) to the swap coun
terparty in accordance with the 
terms of the swap contract. The fair value of the swap liability was 

$18 million and $55 million as
 of December 31, 2010 and 2009, 
respectively.  
   
 
 
 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 104    Fifth Third Bancorp       
  19. LEGAL AND REGULATORY PROCEEDINGS 
During April 2006, the Bancorp was added as a defendant in a 
consolidated antitrust class action lawsuit originally filed against 

Visa®, MasterCard® and several other major financial institutions 

in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of 

New York. The plaintiffs, merchants operating commercial 

businesses throughout the U.S. and trade associations, claim that 

the interchange fees charged by card-issuing banks are 
unreasonable and seek injunctive relief and unspecified damages. 
In addition to being a named defendant, the Bancorp is also 

subject to a possible indemnification obligation of Visa as 

discussed in Note 18 and has also entered into with Visa, 

MasterCard and certain other named defendants judgement and 

loss sharing agreements that attempt to allocate financial 

responsibility to the parties thereto in the event certain settlements 

or judgments occur. Accordingly,
 prior to the sale of Class B 
shares during 2009, the Bancorp had recorded a litigation reserve 
of $243 million to account for it
s potential exposure in this and 
related litigation. Additionally, the Bancorp had also recorded its 

proportional share of $199 million 
of the Visa escrow account 
funded with proceeds from the Visa IPO along with several 

subsequent fundings. Upon the Bancorp™s sale of Visa, Inc. Class 

B shares during 2009, and the recognition of the total return swap 

that transfers conversion risk of the Class B shares back to the 
Bancorp, the Bancorp reversed the remaining net litigation reserve 
related to the Bancorp™s exposu
re through Visa. Additionally, the 
Bancorp has remaining reserves related to this litigation of $30 

million and $22 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, 

respectively. Refer to Note 18 for further information regarding 

the Bancorp™s net litigation reserve and ownership interest in Visa. 

This antitrust litigation is still in the pre-trial phase. 
In September 2007, Ronald A. Katz Technology Licensing, 
L.P. (Katz) filed a suit in the Un
ited States District Court for the 
Southern District of Ohio against the Bancorp and its Ohio 

banking subsidiary. In the suit, Katz alleges that the Bancorp and 

its Ohio bank are infringing on Katz™s patents for interactive call 

processing technology by offering certain automated telephone 

banking and other services. This 
lawsuit is one of many related 
patent infringement suits brought by Katz in various courts 

against numerous other defendants
. Katz is seeking unspecified 
monetary damages and penalties as well as injunctive relief in the 
suit. Management believes there are substantial defenses to these 

claims and intends to defend them vigorously. The impact of the 

final disposition of this lawsuit cannot be assessed at this time.  
For the year ended December 31, 2008, five putative 
securities class action complaints were filed against the Bancorp 

and its Chief Executive Officer, among other parties. The five 

cases have been consolidated, and are currently pending in the 
United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio. 
The lawsuits allege violations of federal securities laws related to 

disclosures made by the Bancorp in
 press releases and filings with 
the SEC regarding its quality and sufficiency of capital, credit 

losses and related matters, and seeking unquantified damages on 

behalf of putative classes of 
persons who either purchased the 
Bancorp™s securities, or acquired th
e Bancorp™s securities pursuant 
to the acquisition of First Char
ter Corporation. These cases 
remain in the discovery stages of litigation. The impact of the final 
disposition of these lawsuits cannot be assessed at this time.  In 

addition to the foregoing, two cases were filed in the United States 

District Court for the Southern District of Ohio against the 

Bancorp and certain officers alleging violations of ERISA based 

on allegations similar to those set forth in the securities class 

action cases filed during the same 
period of time. The two cases 
alleging violations of ERISA were dismissed by the trial court, and 
are being appealed to the United States Sixth Circuit Court of 

Appeals.   
On September 16, 2010, Edward P. Zemprelli (Zemprelli) 
filed a lawsuit in the Hamilton County, Ohio Court of Common 

Pleas. The lawsuit is a purported derivative action brought by a 

shareholder of the Bancorp against certain of the Bancorp™s 

officers and directors, and which names the Bancorp as a nominal 
defendant. In the lawsuit, Zemprelli brings claims for breach of 
fiduciary duty, waste of corporat
e assets, and unjust enrichment 
against the defendant officers and directors. The alleged basis for 

these claims is that the defendan
t officers and directors attempted 
to disguise from the public the truth about the credit quality of the 

Bancorp™s loan portfolio, its capital position, and its need to raise 

capital. Zemprelli, on behalf of the Bancorp, is seeking 

unspecified money damages allegedl
y sustained by the Bancorp as 
a result of the defendants™ conduct, as well as injunctive relief. The 
case is in the early stages of lit
igation. The impact of the final 
disposition of this lawsuit ca
nnot be assessed at this time. 
The Bancorp and its subsidiaries are not parties to any other 
material litigation. However, there 
are other litigation matters that 
arise in the normal course of busi
ness. While it is impossible to 
ascertain the ultimate resolution or range of financial liability with 

respect to these contingent matters, management believes any 
resulting liability from these other actions would not have a 
material effect upon the Bancorp™s 
consolidated financial position, 
results of operations or cash flows.  
The Bancorp and/or its affiliates are or may become 
involved from time to time in information-gathering requests, 

reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and 

informal) by government and self
-regulatory agencies, including the SEC, regarding their respectiv
e businesses. Such matters may 
result in material adverse consequences, including without 
limitation, adverse judgments, 
settlements, fines, penalties, 
injunctions or other actions, amendments and/or restatements of 

Fifth Third™s SEC filings and/or financial statements, as 

applicable, and/or determinations of material weaknesses in our 

disclosure controls and procedur
es. The SEC is investigating and 
has made several requests for information, including by subpoena, 

concerning issues which Fifth Third understands relate to 
accounting and reporting matters involving certain of its 
commercial loans. This could lead
 to an enforcement proceeding 
by the SEC which, in turn, may result in one or more such 

material adverse consequences. 
  
 
   20.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS The Bancorp maintains written po
licies and procedures covering 
related party transactions to prin
cipal shareholders, directors and 
executives of the Bancorp. These procedures cover transactions 

such as employee-stock purchase loans, personal lines of credit, 

residential secured loans, overdrafts
, letters of credit and increases 
in indebtedness. Such transactions are subject to the Bancorp™s 
normal underwriting and approval procedures. Prior to the closing 

of a loan to a related party, Compliance Risk Management must 
approve and determine whether the transaction requires approval from or a post notification be sent to the Bancorp™s Board of 

Directors. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, certain directors, 

executive officers, principal holders of Bancorp common stock, 

associates of such persons, and affiliated companies of such 
persons were indebted, including undrawn commitments to lend, 
to the Bancorp™s banking subsidiary.  
The following table summarizes the Bancorp™s activities with 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
      Fifth Third Bancorp    105
 its principal shareholders, directors and executives at December 31: 
 ($ in millions) 
           
2010 
           
2009 
Commitments to lend, net of participations:   
Directors and their affiliated companies 
$157 
143 
Executive officers 3 6 Total 
160 149 
   Outstanding balance on loans, net of 
participations and undrawn commitments 
74 
68 
 The commitments to lend are in the form of loans and 
guarantees for various business and personal interests. This 

indebtedness was incurred in the ordinary course of business on 

substantially the same terms, includ
ing interest rates and collateral, 
as those prevailing at the time fo
r comparable transactions with 
unrelated parties. This indebtedness does not involve more than 

the normal risk of repayment or present other features unfavorable 

to the Bancorp.  
On June 30, 2009, the Bancorp completed the sale of a 
majority interest in its Processing Businesses, FTPS. Advent 

International acquired an approxim
ate 51% interest in FTPS for 
cash and warrants. The Bancorp retained the remaining 

approximate 49% interest in FTPS and, as part of the sale, FTPS 

assumed loans totaling $1.25 billion owed to the Bancorp. The 

Bancorp recognized $26 million and $15 million, respectively, in 

noninterest income as part of its equity method investment in 
FTPS for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 and 
received distributions totaling $25 million and $18 million, 

respectively, during 2010 and 2009. The Bancorp and FTPS have various agreements in place 
covering services relating to the operations of FTPS. The services 

provided by the Bancorp to FTPS were required to support FTPS 

as a standalone entity during the deconversion period. These 
services involve transition support, including product development, 
risk management, legal, accounting
 and general business resources. 
FTPS paid the Bancorp $49 million and $76 million, respectively, 

for these services for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 

2009. Other services provided to FTPS by the Bancorp, which will 

continue beyond the deconversion period, include treasury 

management, clearing, settlement, 
sponsorship, data center support 
and office space. FTPS paid the Bancorp $34 million and $14 
million, respectively, for these services for the years ended 
December 31, 2010 and 2009. In addition to the previously 

mentioned services, the Bancorp entered into an agreement under 

which FTPS will provide processing services to the Bancorp. The 

total amount of fees relating to the processing services provided to 

the Bancorp by FTPS totaled $64 million and $33 million, 

respectively, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009.  
During the fourth quarter of 2010, FTPS refinanced its debt 
into a larger syndicated loan structure that included the Bancorp. 
As a result, loans to FTPS declined to $381 million as of December 

31, 2010 from $1.24 billion at December 31, 2009. The Bancorp 

recognized $4 million in syndication fees in 2010 associated with 

the refinanced loan to FTPS. The amount of FTPS™ line of credit 

with the Bancorp was also reduced to $50 million as of December 

31, 2010 from $125 million as of December 31, 2009. FTPS did 

not draw upon its lines of credit
 during the years ended December 
31, 2010 or 2009. Interest income 
relating to the loans was $102 
million and $60 million, respectively, for the years ended December 

31, 2010 and 2009 and is included in
 interest and fees on loans and 
leases in the Consolidated Statements of Income.   
 21. INCOME TAXES 
The Bancorp and its subsidiaries file a consolidated federal income tax return. The following is a summary of applicable income taxes included in 
the Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31: 
 ($ in millions) 
201020092008
Current income tax (benefit) expense: 
 U.S. income taxes 
($5)(157)560
 State and local income taxes 
       16 
       6 25
    Non-U.S. income taxes 
      - 
      (3) 3
Total current tax  (benefit) expense 
11(154)588
Deferred income tax expense (benefit): 
 U.S. income taxes 
165190(1,090)
 State and local income taxes 
        11 
       (8)      (47) 
    Non-U.S. income taxes 
- 2(2)
Total deferred tax expense (benefit) 
      176
     184 (1,139) 
Applicable income tax expense (benefit)  
$18730(551)
 The following is a reconciliation between the 
statutory U.S. income tax rate and the Ba
ncorp™s effective tax rate for the years
 ended December 31: 
  201020092008
Statutory tax rate 
35.0%35.0(35.0)
Increase (decrease) resulting from:  
    State taxes, net of federal benefit 
1.8(.1)(.5)
 Tax-exempt income 
(3.6)(18.7)1.5
 Credits 
(14.1)   (14.6)   (3.6)   
Goodwill 
-8.711.9
     Interest to taxing authority, net of tax 
(0.8)(7.6)5.1
     Other changes in unrecognized tax benefits 
(1.8)--     Unrealized stock-based compensation benefits 
2.50.6-
 Other, net 
0.8 0.6 (.1)Effective tax rate 
19.8%3.9(20.7)
 Tax-exempt income in the rate reconciliation table includes 
interest on municipal bonds, interest on tax-exempt lending, 

income/charges on life insurance policies held by the Bancorp, 

and certain gains on sales of leas
es that are exempt from federal 
taxation.  
During 2010, the Bancorp settled its outstanding dispute with 
the IRS relating to a specific capi
tal raising transaction. This 
favorable settlement reduced in
come tax expense (including 
interest) by $19 million. During 2009, the Bancorp settled its 

outstanding dispute with the IRS relating to certain leveraged 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
     106    Fifth Third Bancorp          
lease transactions. This favorable settlement reduced income 
tax expense (including interest) by $6 million and $55 million 
for 2010 and 2009, respectively. The accrual of interest expense 
for these items had an adverse impact on income tax expense 

for 2008.  
During 2009, the Bancorp notified the carrier of one of the 
Bancorp™s policies of its intent to surrender a certain BOLI 
policy and was therefore required 
to establish a deferred tax 
asset relating to the difference between its financial reporting 
and tax basis of its investment. As a result, income tax expense 
for 2009 was favorably impacted by $106 million. Income tax 

expense was adversely impacted in 2008 by $78 million relating 

to the same BOLI policy.   The following table provides a summary of the Bancor
p™s unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31: 
 ($ in millions) 
2010
2009
Tax positions that would impact the 
effective tax rate, if recognized 
$15 
81 
Tax positions where the ultimate deductibility is highly certain
, but for which there is uncertain
ty about the timing of the de
duction1 1 Unrecognized tax benefits 
 $1682 The following table provides a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of the Bancorp™s unrecognized tax benefits:  ($ in millions) 
2010 
20092008Unrecognized tax benefits at January 1  
$82 
959469
 Gross increases for tax positions taken during prior period 
4 16496
 Gross decreases for tax positions taken during prior period 
(23) 
(329)(8)
 Gross increases for tax positions taken during current period 
2 14 Settlements with ta
xing authorities 
(48) 
(563)-
 Lapse of applicable statute of limitations 
(1) 
(2)(2)
 Unrecognized tax benefits at December 31 
$16 
82959
  The Bancorp™s unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 
2010 relate largely to U.S. state income tax exposures from taking 
tax positions where the Bancorp believes it is likely that upon 
examination a state will take a position contrary to the position 

taken by the Bancorp. 
Substantially all of the reduction of unrecognized tax benefits 
during 2010 related to the settlement of the Bancorp™s dispute with 

the IRS relating to the specific capital raising transaction 
mentioned previously. Similarly, substantially all of the reduction 
of unrecognized tax benefits du
ring 2009 related to the settlement 
of certain leveraged lease transactions with the IRS.  
  The Bancorp believes it is unlikely that its unrecognized tax 
benefits will change by a material amount during the next 12 

months. 

 
  Deferred income taxes are comprised of the following items at December 31: 
 ($ in millions) 
20102009Deferred tax assets: 
    Allowance for loan & lease losses 
$1,051
1,312    Impairment reserves 
144145    Deferred compensation 
136147    Reserve for unfunded commitments 
79103    State net operating losses  
6681    Other 
273224Total deferred tax assets 
$1,749
2,012Deferred tax liabilities: 
 Lease financing 
$801898 Investments in joint ventures and partnership interests 
481481 MSRs 
190191Other comprehensive income 
169130Bank premises and equipment 
6988    State deferred taxes 
5360    Other 
130138Total deferred tax liabilities 
$1,893
1,986Total net deferred tax (liability) asset  
 ($144)
26   Deferred tax assets are included as a component of other assets in 
the Consolidated Balance Sheets. Deferred tax liabilities are 

included as a component of accrued taxes, interest and expenses in 

the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Bancorp had recorded 
deferred tax assets of $66 milli
on and $81 million, respectively, 
related to state net operating loss carryforwards. The deferred tax 

assets relating to state net operating losses are presented net of 

specific valuation allowances, primarily resulting from leasing 

operations, of $25 million and $15 million at December 31, 2010 

and 2009, respectively. If these carry forwards are not utilized, they 

will expire in varying amounts through 2030. Additionally, at 
December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Bancorp had federal general 
business tax credit carryforwards of $45 million and $42 million, 
respectively. If unused, these cred
it carryforwards will expire in 
2030.  The Bancorp has determined that a valuation allowance is not 
needed against the remaining deferred tax assets as of December 
31, 2010 or 2009. The Bancorp considered all of the positive and 

negative evidence available to determine whether it is more likely 

than not that the deferred tax assets
 will ultimately be realized and, 
based upon that evidence, the Bancorp believes it is more likely 

than not that the deferred tax assets recorded at December 31, 

2010 and 2009 will ultimately be realized. The Bancorp reached this 

conclusion as the Bancorp has taxable income in the carryback 
period and it is expected that the Bancorp™s remaining deferred tax 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
     Fifth Third Bancorp    107
 assets will be realized through the reversal of its existing taxable 
temporary differences and its projected future taxable income.  
As required under U.S. GAAP, the Bancorp recognized a 
deferred tax asset for compensation expense recognized for 
financial reporting that may be dedu
ctible for tax purposes in the 
future for certain stock-based aw
ards granted to its employees. As 
a result of the Bancorp™s stock price as of December 31, 2010, as 

much as $24 million of deferred ta
x assets previously established 
for these stock-based awards will not
 be realized within the next 12 
months and will negatively impact the Bancorp™s income tax 

expense in 2011. The Bancorp cannot predict its stock price or 

whether its employees will exercise 
other stock-based awards with 
lower exercise prices in the future; 
therefore, it is possible that the 
impact to income tax expense will be greater than or less than $24 

million in 2011. The IRS concluded its audit for 2006 and 2007 during the 
third quarter of 2010. As a result, all 
issues have been resolved with 
the IRS through 2007. The statute of limitations for the Bancorp™s 

federal income tax returns remains open for tax years 2007 through 
2010. The IRS is currently auditing
 the Bancorp™s federal income 
tax returns for 2008 and 2009. On occasion, as various state and 
local taxing jurisdictions examine the returns of the Bancorp and 

its subsidiaries, the Bancorp may agree to extend the statute of 

limitations for a short period of time. Otherwise, with the 

exception of a few states with insi
gnificant uncertain tax positions, 
the statutes of limitations for st
ate income tax returns remain open 
only for tax years in accordance with each state™s statutes. 
Any interest and penalties incurred in connection with income 
taxes are recorded as a component of income tax expense in the 
Consolidated Financial Statements. During the years ended 
December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Bancorp recognized an interest 

benefit of $8 million and interest expense of $3 million, 

respectively, net of the related tax impact. This $3 million 

recognized in 2009 is exclusive of the $55 million interest reduction 

discussed previously. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the 

Bancorp had accrued interest liabilities, net of the related tax 

benefits, of $1 million and $13 million, respectively. No material 
liabilities were recorded for penalties. 
Retained earnings at December 31, 2010 and 2009 included 
$157 million in allocations of earnings for bad debt deductions of 

former thrift subsidiaries for which no income tax has been 

provided. Under current tax law, if certain of the Bancorp™s 

subsidiaries use these bad debt reserves for purposes other than to 

absorb bad debt losses, they will be subject to federal income tax at 

the current corporate tax rate. 
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 108    Fifth Third Bancorp    
22. RETIREMENT AND BENEFIT PLANS 
The Bancorp recognizes the overfunded and underfunded status 
of its pension plans as an asse
t and liability, respectively. The 
overfunded and underfunded amounts recognized in other assets 
and other liabilities, respectively,
 in the Consolidated Balance 
Sheets were as follows as of December 31:   
 ($ in millions)   
2010 
2009Prepaid benefit cost 
$4 
-Accrued benefit liabilit
y (34) 
(35)Net underfunded status 
($30) 
(35) The following tables summarize the defined benefit retirement 
plans as of and for the years ended December 31:  
  Plans with an Overfunded Status (a) 
(a)
   The Bancorp™s defined benefit plan had an overfunded status at December 31, 
2010. The plan was underfunded at Decemb
er 31, 2009 and is reflected in the 
Underfunded Status table
.  Plans with an Underfunded Status  The estimated net actuarial loss and prior service cost for the 
defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from 
accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic 
benefit cost during 2011 are $11 million and $1 million, 

respectively.  The following table summarizes ne
t periodic benefit cost and 
other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in 

other comprehensive income for the years ended December 31:  
    
 ($ in millions) 
2010 
20092008
Components of net periodic benefit cost: 
  Service cost 
$ - 
 --
 Interest cost 
12 1213
 Expected return on assets 
(14) (12)(18)
 Amortization of net actuarial loss 
12 157
 Amortization of net prior service cost 
1 11 Settlement 
- 1310
Net periodic benefit cost 
$11 2913
 Other changes in plan assets and benefit 
obligations recognized in other 

comprehensive income: 
     Net actuarial loss (gain) 
2 (10)93
 Net prior service cost 
- -- Amortization of net actuarial loss 
(12) (15)(7)
    Amortization of prior service cost 
(1) (1)(1)
    Settlement 
- (13)(10)
Total recognized in other comprehensive 
income 
(11) (39)75
Total recognized in net periodic benefit 
cost and other comprehensive income  
$ - 
(10)88
 Fair Value Measurements of Plan Assets 
The following table summarizes plan assets measured at fair value 
on a recurring basis as of December 31:  
                                                Fair Value Measurements Using (a)
2010
 ($ in millions) Level 1
 Level 2 Level 3 
Total 
Fair 
Value 
Equity securities: 
        Equity securities (Growth) 
(b)
$58 - -$58
    Equity securities (Value) 
53 - -53
Total equity securities  
111 - -111
   Mutual & exchange traded funds:
      Money market funds 
6 - -6
    International funds 
30 - -30
    Commodity funds 
11 - -11
Total mutual & exchange 
traded funds 
47 - -47
  Debt securities: 
     U.S Treasury obligations 
7 - -7
   U.S. Govt. agencies 
(c) - 1 -1
   Agency mortgage backed 
- 24 -24
   Non-agency mortgage 
backed 
- 6 -6
   Corporate bonds 
(d) 
- 1 -1
Total debt securities 
7 32 -39
Total plan assets 
$165 32 -$197 
                                                      Fair Value Measurements Using (a)
2009 ($ in millions) Level 1
 Level 2 Level 3 
Total 
Fair 
Value 
Equity securities: 
    
Equity securities (Growth) 
(b)
 $52 --$52
   Equity securities (Value) 49 --49
Total equity securities  101 --101
  Mutual & exchange traded funds: 
    Money market funds 6 --6
    International funds 28 --28

    Commodity funds 9 --9
Total mutual & exchange 
traded funds 43 --43
 Debt securities:  
   U.S Treasury obligations 6 --6
   U.S. Govt. agencies 
(c) - 3-3
   Agency mortgage backed - 27-27
   Corporate bonds 
(d) 
- 2-2
Total debt securities 6 32-38
Total plan assets $150 32-$182 
(a) For further information on fair value hierarchy levels, see Note 28.  
(b) Includes holdings in Bancorp common stock  
(c) Includes debt securities issued by U.S. Government sponsored agencies 
(d) Includes private label asset backed securities 
  ($ in millions)  
2010 
2009Fair value of plan assets at January 1 
$182 
-Actual return on assets 
31 
-Contributions 
- -Settlement - -Benefits paid 
(16) 
-Fair value of plan assets at December 31 
$197 
 -Projected benefit obligation at January 1 
$183 
-Service cost 
- -Interest cost 
10 
-Settlement - -Actuarial loss 
16 
-Benefits paid 
(16) 
-Projected benefit obligation at December 31 
$193 
-Overfunded projected benefit obligation recognized  
in the Consolidated Bala
nce Sheets as an asset
 $4 
-($ in millions)  
2010 
2009Fair value of plan assets at January 1 
$ - 144Actual return on assets 
- 29Contributions 
4 39Settlement - (19)Benefits paid 
(4) 
(11)Fair value of plan assets at December 31 
$ -  182
Projected benefit obligation at January 1 
$34 
228Service cost 
- -Interest cost 
2 12Settlement - (19)Actuarial loss 
2 7Benefits paid 
(4) 
(11)Projected benefit obligation at December 31 
$34 
217Unfunded pro
jected benefit obligation recognized 
the Consolidated Balance Sheets as a liability  
($34) 
(35)NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    Fifth Third Bancorp    109
 The following is a description of the valuation methodologies 
used for instruments measured at fair value, as well as the general 

classification of such instrume
nts pursuant to the valuation 
hierarchy.  Equity securities
 The plan measures common stock using quoted prices which are 
available in an active market 
and classifies these investments 
within Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. 
 Mutual and exchange traded funds 

All of the plan™s mutual and exchange traded funds are publicly 

traded. The plan measures the value of these investments using 

the fund™s quoted prices that are 
available in an active market and 
classifies these investments wi
thin Level 1 of the valuation 
hierarchy.   Debt securities 
For certain U.S. Treasury and federal agency and non-agency 

obligations, the plan measures the fair value based on quoted 

prices, which are available in an ac
tive market and classifies these 
investments within Level 1 of 
the valuation hierarchy. Where 
quoted prices are not available, the plan measures the fair value of 

these investments based on matrix pricing models that include the 

bid price, which factors in the yield curve and other characteristics 

of the security including the interest rate, prepayment speeds and 

length of maturity. Therefore, 
these investments are classified 
within Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy.
  Plan Assumptions 
The plan assumptions are evaluated annually and are updated as 

necessary. The discount rate as
sumption reflects the yield on a portfolio of high quality fixed-income instruments that have a 

similar duration to the plan™s li
abilities. The expected long-term 
rate of return assumption reflect
s the average return expected on 
the assets invested to provid
e for the plan™s liabilities. In 
determining the expected long-term rate of return, the Bancorp 
evaluated actuarial and economic inputs, including long-term 
inflation rate assumptions and broad equity and bond indices 

long-term return projections, as well as actual long-term historical 

plan performance. 
 The following table summarizes
 the plan assumptions for 
the years ended December 31: 
 Lowering both the expected rate of return on the plan and the 

discount rate by 0.25% would have increased the 2010 pension 

expense by approximately $1 million. 
Based on the actuarial assumptions, the Bancorp does not 
expect to contribute to the plan in 2011. Estimated pension 
benefit payments, which reflect exp
ected future service, are $19 
million in 2011, $20 million in 2012, $17 million in 2013, $17 

million in 2014 and $16 million in 2015. The total estimated 

payments for the years 2016 through 2020 is $70 million.  Investment Policies and Strategies 
The Bancorp™s policy for the investment of plan assets is to 
employ investment strategies that achieve a range of weighted-
average target asset allocations relating to equity securities 

(including the Bancorp™s common 
stock), fixed income securities 
(including federal agency obligations, corporate bonds and notes) 
and cash.  
The following table provides the Bancorp™s targeted and 
actual weighted-average asset allocations by asset category for 
years ended December 31: 
 Weighted-average asset 
allocation 
Targeted range 20102009Equity securities     72%
71Bancorp common stock 
 22Total equity securities (a)      70 Œ 80%
7473Total fixed income securities      20 Œ 25  
2324Cash          0 - 5  
33Total       100%
 100
(a)  Includes mutual and exchange traded funds.
   The risk tolerance for the plan is determined by management 
to be ﬁmoderate to aggressiveﬂ, recognizing that higher returns 

involve some volatility and that peri
odic declines in the portfolio™s 
value are tolerated in an effort
 to achieve real capital growth. 
There were no significant concentrations of risk associated with 

the investments of the Bancorp™s benefit and retirement plans at 

December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
Permitted asset classes of the plan include cash and cash 
equivalents, fixed income (domes
tic and non-U.S. bonds), equities 
(U.S., non-U.S., emerging markets and REITS), equipment leasing 

precious metals, commodity transacti
ons and mortgages.  The plan 
utilizes derivative instruments in
cluding puts, calls, straddles or 
other option strategies, as approved by management.     
Prohibited asset classes of the plan include venture capital, 
short sales, limited partnerships
 and leveraged transactions. Per 
ERISA, the Bancorp™s common stock cannot exceed ten percent 
of the fair value of plan assets.   
Fifth Third Bank, as Trustee, is
 expected to manage the plan 
assets in a manner consistent with the plan agreement and other 

regulatory, federal and state laws. The Fifth Third Bank Pension, 

Profit Sharing and Medical Plan Committee (the ﬁCommitteeﬂ) is 

the plan administrator. The Trust
ee is required to provide to the 
Committee monthly and quarterly reports covering a list of plan 
assets, portfolio performance, transactions and asset allocation. 
The Trustee is also required to keep the Committee apprised of 

any material changes in the Trustee™s outlook and recommended 

investment policy.  Other Information on Retirement and Benefit Plans 
The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit plans 

was $227 million and $217 million at December 31, 2010 and 

2009, respectively. Amounts relating to the Bancorp™s defined 

benefit plans with assets exceeding benefit obligations were as 

follows at December 31:   
 ($ in millions) 
2010 
2009 
Projected benefit obligation 
 $193 
 -Accumulated benefit obligation 
  193 
-Fair value of plan assets 
  197 
  - Amounts relating to the Bancorp™s defined benefit plans with 

benefit obligations exceeding assets were as follows at December 

31:   
 ($ in millions) 
2010 
2009 
Projected benefit obligation 
 $34 
  217
Accumulated benefit obligation 
  34 
217Fair value of plan assets 
  - 
  182
 As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, $172 million and $160 
million, respectively, of plan as
sets were managed through mutual 
funds by Fifth Third Bank, a su
bsidiary of the Bancorp. Plan 
assets included $5 million and $3 million of Bancorp common 
stock as of December 31, 2010 and 
2009, respectively. Plan assets 
are not expected to be return
ed to the Bancorp during 2011. 
Weighted-average assumptions 
2010 
20092008
For measuring benefit obligations 
at year end: 
  Discount rate 
5.39 % 5.886.11
 Rate of compensation increase 
 5.00 
 5.00 5.00
 Expected return on plan assets 
8.25 
8.508.53
For measuring net periodic benefit cost: 
  Discount rate 
5.88 
6.116.45
 Rate of compensation increase 
5.00 
5.005.00
 Expected return on plan assets 
8.25 
8.508.50
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 110    Fifth Third Bancorp        
        The Bancorp™s qualified defined benefit plan™s benefits were 
frozen in 1998, except for 
grandfathered employees. The 
Bancorp™s other retirement plans consist of nonqualified, 
supplemental retirement plans, which are funded on an as needed 

basis. A majority of these plans were obtained in acquisitions from 

prior years.  
The Bancorp™s profit sharing plan expense was $31 million 
for 2010, $17 million for 2009 and $18 million for 2008. Expenses 
recognized during the years 
ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 
2008 for matching contributions to the Bancorp™s defined 

contribution savings plans were $36 million, $36 million and $37 

million, respectively. 
 23.  ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
 The activity of the components of other comprehensive income an
d accumulated other comprehensive income was as follows for the 
years ended December 31: 
   Total Other               
Comprehensive Income 
      Total Accumulated Other    
       Comprehensive Income 
($ in millions) 
Pretax Activity    Tax    
    Effect 
Net 
Activity Beginning 
Balance Net 
Activity Ending Balance2010 
 Unrealized holding gains on available-
for-sale securities arising during 
period 
$216(73)143 
Reclassification adjustment for net gains included in net income 
(57)19(38) 
Net unrealized gains on available-for-sale securities 
159(54)105216 105321
  Unrealized holding gains on cash flow hedge derivatives arising during 
period 
2(1)1 
Reclassification adjustment for net gains on cash flow hedge  
    derivatives included in net income 
(60)21 (39) 
Net unrealized gains on cash flow hedge derivatives 
(58)20(38)105 (38)67
  Defined benefit plans: 
    Net prior service cost 
1(1)- 
   Net actuarial loss 
10(4)6 
Defined benefit plans, net 
11(5)6(80) 6(74)
Total $112(39)73241 73314
2009 
 Unrealized holding gains on available-
for-sale securities arising during 
period $248(86)162 
Reclassification adjustment for net gain
s included in net income (57)20(37) 
Reclassification adjustment related 
to prior OTTI charges (37)13(24) 
Net unrealized gains on available-fo
r-sale securities 154(53)101115 101216
  Unrealized holding gains on cash flow hedge derivatives arising during 
period 75(26)49 
Reclassification adjustment for net gains on cash flow hedge   
   derivatives included in net income (49)17 (32) 
Net unrealized gains on cash flow hedge derivatives 26(9)1788 17105
  Defined benefit plans: 
    Net prior service cost --- 
   Net actuarial loss 39(14)25 
Defined benefit plans, net 39(14)25(105) 25(80)
Total $219(76)14398 143241
2008 
 Unrealized holding gains on available-
for-sale securities arising during 
period $353(123)230 
Reclassification adjustment for net gain
s included in net income (31)10(21) 
Net unrealized gains (losses) on availabl
e-for-sale securities 322(113)209(94) 209115
  Unrealized holding gains on cash flow hedge derivatives arising during 
period 100(35)65 
Reclassification adjustment for net gains on cash flow hedge   

   derivatives included
 in net income (3)1(2) 
Net unrealized gains on cash flow hedge derivatives 97(34)6325 6388
  Defined benefit plans: 
    Net prior service cost --- 
   Net actuarial gain (74)26(48) 
Defined benefit plans, net (74)26(48)(57) (48)(105)
Total $345(121)224(126) 22498
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    Fifth Third Bancorp    111
  24. COMMON, PREFERRED AND TREASURY STOCK 
 The following is a summary of the share activity within comm
on, preferred and treasury stock for the years ended December 31: 
  Common Stock Preferred Stock  Treasury Stock 
($ in millions, except share data) ValueSharesValueShares  ValueShares
Shares at December 31, 2007 $1,
295583,427,104$99,250 $2,20951,482,500
Issuance of preferred shares, Series G --1,07244,300 --
Issuance of preferred shares, Series F --3,169136,320 --
Redemption of preferred shares, Series D, E --(9)(9,250) --

Stock-based awards exercised, including treasury shares issued ---- (2)-

Restricted stock grants  ---- (136)(2,551,432)
Shares issued in business combinations ---- (1,841)(42,890,576)
Employee stock ownership through benefit plans ---- (1)-
Shares at December 31, 2008 $1,295
583,427,104$4,241180,620 $2296,040,492
Issuance of common shares 351157,955,960-- --
Exchange of preferred shares, 
Series G 13360,121,124(674)(27,849) --
Accretion from dividends on preferred shares, Series F --41- --
Restricted stock forfeitures ---- 5819,796
Restricted stock grants  ---- (32)(751,464)

Other --1- (1)327,200
Shares at December 31, 2009 $1,779
801,504,188$3,609152,771 $2016,436,024
Accretion from dividends on preferred shares, Series F 
--45- --
Stock-based awards exercised, including treasury shares issued 
---- (8)16,391
Restricted stock grants and forfeitures, net 
---- (62)(1,334,967)
Employee stock ownership through benefit plans 
---- (1)114,218
Shares at December 31, 2010 
$1,779801,504,188$3,654152,771 $1305,231,666
 In 2008, 8.5% non-cumulative Se
ries G convertible preferred 
stock was issued in the second quarter. The depository shares 
represented shares of its convertible preferred stock and had a 

liquidation preference of $25,000 per share. The preferred stock is 

convertible at any time, at the option of the shareholder, into 

2,159.8272 shares of common stock, representing a conversion 

price of approximately $11.575 per 
share of common stock. As of 
December 31, 2010, Series G preferred stock had 16,451 shares 

outstanding and 1,700 shares reserved for issuance. 
On December 31, 2008, the U.S. Treasury purchased $3.4 
billion, or 136,320 shares, of the Bancorp™s Fixed Rate Cumulative 

Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series F, with a liquidation preference 

of $25,000 per share and related 10-year warrants in the amount 

of 15% of the preferred stock investment. The warrants allow the 

U.S. Treasury to purchase 
up to 43,617,747 shares of the 
Bancorp™s common stock with an exercise price of $11.72. The 

Series F senior preferred stock was issued complying with the 
terms established by the CPP. Per the program terms, the U.S. 
Treasury™s investment consists of senior preferred stock with a 

five percent dividend for each of 
the first five years of investment 
and nine percent thereafter, unless the shares are redeemed. The 

shares are callable by the Bancorp at par after three years and may 

be repurchased at any time under certain circumstances. The 

terms also include restrictions on the repurchase of common 

stock and an increase in common stock dividends, which require 
the U.S. Treasury™s consent, for a period of three years from the 
date of investment unless the preferred shares are redeemed in 

whole or the U.S. Treasury has 
transferred all of the preferred 
shares to a third party.   
The proceeds from issuance of the Series F preferred stock 
were allocated to the preferred stock and to the warrants based on 

their relative fair values, which re
sulted in an initial book value of 
$3.2 billion for the preferred stock and $239 million for the 
warrants. The resulting discount to the preferred stock is being 
accreted over five years through retained earnings as a preferred 

stock dividend, resulting in an effective yield of 6.7% for the 

Series F preferred stock for the first five years. The warrants will 

remain in capital surplus at their initial book value until they are 

exercised or expire.  
The CPP terms also required that preferred stock issued to 
U.S. Treasury rank senior to, or
 pari passu with, other preferred 
stock. In order to meet the U.S. Treasury™s standard terms, in the 
fourth quarter of 2008, the Bancorp repurchased its Series D and 
Series E preferred stock. The preferred stock was repurchased for 
aggregate consideration in cash of $28 million, in which $9 million 

par value was accounted for as retirement of the Series D and 

Series E preferred stock and the remaining $19 million was 

recognized as dividends paid to the holders of the preferred stock. 
On May 7, 2009, the Bancorp announced the SCAP results. 
While not required to raise additional overall capital, the Bancorp 

was required to augment its existing capital base to maintain a 
capital buffer above the newly required four percent threshold of 
the Tier I common equity ratio. As a result, the Bancorp initiated 

a number of capital actions includ
ing the offer to exchange Series 
G preferred shares and a common stock offering. 
On June 4, 2009, the Bancorp announced the successful 
completion of a $1 billion at-the-market offering of its common 

shares. Through this offering, the Bancorp issued approximately 

158 million shares at an average price of $6.33.    
On June 17, 2009, the Bancorp completed its offer to 
exchange 2,158.8272 shares of its common stock, no par value, 

and $8,250 in cash, for each set of 250 validly tendered and 

accepted depositary shares. The Ba
ncorp issued approximately 60 
million shares of common stock and paid $230 million in cash in 

exchange for 7 million depositary shares. Overall, $696 million in 

liquidation amount of the Bancorp™s depositary shares were validly 

tendered, not withdrawn and exchanged, which represented 63% 
of the aggregate liquidation amount of its depositary shares. An 
aggregate of 7 million depositary shares representing 27,849 shares 

of Series G preferred stock were retired upon receipt. At the time 

of exchange, the Bancorp recognized an increase to retained 

earnings and net income available to common shareholders of $35 

million, calculated as the difference between the carrying amount 

of the Series G preferred stock exchanged and the sum of the fair 

value of the common stock plus cash delivered. After settlement 
of the exchange offer and as of December 31, 2010, 4,112,750 
depositary shares representing 16,451 shares of Series G preferred 

stock remained outstanding. As 
a result of this exchange, the 
Bancorp increased its common equity by $441 million.    
      During 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Bancorp repurchased an 
immaterial amount of common stock.  
On January 20, 2011, the Bancorp announced it had priced a 
public offering of 121,428,572 shares of its common stock at a 
price of $14.00 per share, or $1.7 billion in aggregate gross 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 112    Fifth Third Bancorp     
proceeds. On January 24, 2011, th
e underwriters exercised their 
option to purchase an additional 12,142,857 shares at the offering 
price of $14.00 per share. In connection with this exercise, the 
Bancorp entered into a forward sale agreement which resulted in a 

final net payment of 959,821 shares
 on February 4, 2011. On 
February 2, 2011, the Bancorp us
ed these proceeds along with 
proceeds from a senior debt offering and other available resources 
to repurchase all 136,320 Series F preferred shares. See Note 32 
for further information.     25. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION 
The Bancorp has historically emphasized employee stock 
ownership. The following table pr
ovides detail of the number of 
shares to be issued upon exerci
se of outstanding stock-based 
awards and remaining shares availab
le for future issuance under all 
of the Bancorp™s equity compensation plans as of December 31, 

2010:  Plan Category (shares in thousands)  
Number of Shares to Be  
Issued Upon Exercise 
Weighted-Average Exercise 
Price 
Shares Available 
for Future Issuance  
Equity compensation plans approved by shareholders:  9,601
(a)  SARs 
(b) (b) (a)  Restricted stock 5,158 
 N/A (a) 
 Stock options 
(c) 10,333 $57.02 
(a) 
 Phantom stock units 
(d)  N/A  N/A 
 Performance units 
(e)  N/A (a)
     Performance-based restricted stock - 
 N/A (a) 
 Employee stock purchase plan   10,434
(f) Total shares 15,491  20,035
 (a) Under the 2008 Incentive Compensation Plan, 33 million shares of 
stock were authorized for issuance as incentive and nonqualifi
ed stock options, SARs, restricted stock and restricted stock 
units, performance units and performance restricted stock awards. 
(b) The number of shares to be issued upon exercise will be determin
ed at vesting based on the difference between the grant price a
nd the market price at the date of exercise. 
(c) Excludes 1.5 million outstanding options awarded under plans assu
med by the Bancorp in connectio
n with certain mergers and acqu
isitions. The Bancorp has not made any awards under these 
plans and will make no additional awards under these plans. The we
ighted-average exercise price of the outstanding options is $
18.09 per share.  
 (d) Phantom stock units are settled in cash. 
(e) The number of shares to be issued is dependent upon the Bancor
p achieving certain predefined performance targets and ranges fro
m zero shares to approximately 400 thousand shares. 
(f) Represents remaining shares of Fifth Third common stock under the 
Bancorp™s 1993 Stock Purchase Plan, as amended and restated, 
including an additional 1.5 million shares approved by 
shareholders on March 28, 2007 and an additional 12 mi
llion shares approved by shareholders on April 21, 2009. 
 Stock-based awards are eligible 
for issuance under the Bancorp™s 
Incentive Compensation Plan to key employees and directors of 

the Bancorp and its subsidiaries. The Incentive Compensation 

Plan was approved by shareholders on April 15, 2008, which 

authorizes the issuance of up 
to 33 million shares as equity 
compensation and provides for 
incentive and nonqualified stock 
options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock and restricted 
stock units, and performance shar
e and restricted stock awards. 
Based on total stock-based awards
 outstanding (including stock 
options, stock appreciation ri
ghts, restricted stock and 
performance units) and shares r
emaining for future grants under 
the 2008 Incentive Compensation Plan, the Bancorp™s total 

overhang is seven percent. The overhang measurement represents 
the potential dilution to which th
e Bancorp™s shareholders of 
common stock are exposed due to the potential that stock-based 

compensation will be awarded to executives, directors or key 

employees of the Bancorp. SARs, restricted stock, stock options 

and performance units outstanding represent six percent of the 

Bancorp™s issued shares at December 31, 2010. 
During 2009, the Bancorp™s Board of Directors approved the 
use of phantom stock units as part of its compensation for 
executives in connection with changes made in reaction to the 
TARP compensation rules. The phantom stock units were issued 

under the Bancorp™s 2008 Incentive Compensation Plan. The 
number of phantom stock units is determined each pay period by 

dividing the amount of salary to be paid in phantom stock units 

for that pay period, by the reported closing price of the Bancorp™s 

common stock on the pay date for such pay period. Phantom 

stock is expensed based on the number of outstanding units 
multiplied by the closing price of
 the Bancorp™s stock at period 
end. The phantom stock units do not include any rights to receive 

dividends or dividend equivalents.
 Phantom stock units issued on 
or before June 12, 2010 will be settled in cash upon the earlier to 

occur of June 15, 2011 or the executive™s death. Units issued 

thereafter will be settled in cash with 50% being settled on June 

15, 2012 and 50% being settled on June 15, 2013. The amount to 
be paid on settlement of the phantom stock units will be equal to 
the total amount of phantom stock units settled at the reported 

closing price of the Bancorp™s common stock on the settlement 

date.  All of the Bancorp™s stock-based awards are to be settled 
with stock with the exception of phantom stock units and a 
portion of the performance units that are to be settled in cash. 

The Bancorp has historically used treasury stock to settle stock-

based awards, when available. SARs, issued at fair value based on 

the closing price of the Bancorp™s common stock on the date of 

grant, have up to ten-year terms and vest and become exercisable 

either ratably or fully over a four year period of continued 

employment. The Bancorp does not grant discounted SARs or 
stock options, re-price previously granted SARs or stock options, 
or grant reload stock options. Restricted stock grants vest either 

after four years or ratably after three, four and five years of 

continued employment and include dividend and voting rights. 
Stock options were previously issued at fair value based on the 

closing price of the Bancorp™s common stock on the date of grant, 

had up to ten-year terms and vested and became fully exercisable 

ratably over a three or four year period of continued employment. 
Performance unit awards have th
ree-year cliff vesting terms with performance or market conditions as defined by the plan. 
Under U.S. GAAP, the Bancorp recognizes compensation 
expense for the grant-date fair v
alue of stock-based compensation 
issued over its requisite service pe
riod. The grant-date fair value of 
SARs and stock options is measured using the Black-Scholes 

option-pricing model. Awards with a graded vesting are expensed 
on a straight-line basis.   
  
 
 
 
 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Fifth Third Bancorp 
113The Bancorp uses assumptions, which are evaluated and 
revised as necessary, in estimating 
the grant-date fair value of each 
SAR grant. The weighted-average assumptions were as follows for 

the years ended:
   2010 
2009 2008 
Expected life (in years) 
6 6 6 Expected volatility  
38% 
73% 30% 
Expected dividend yield 
2.0% 
1.3% 8.7% 
Risk-free interest rate 
3.1% 
2.2% 3.3% 
 The expected option life is derived from historical exercise 
patterns and represents the amount of time that options granted 

are expected to be outstanding. The expected volatility is based on 

a combination of historical and implied volatilities of the 
Bancorp™s common stock. The expected dividend yield is based 
on annual dividends divided by the 
Bancorp™s stock price. Annual 
dividends are based on projected dividends, estimated using a 

historical long-term dividend payout
 ratio, over the estimated life 
of the awards. The risk-free interest rate for periods within the 
contractual life of the option is 
based on the U.S. Treasury yield 
curve in effect at the time of grant.   
Stock-based compensation expense was $64 million, $51 
million and $56 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 
2009 and 2008, respectively, and is
 included as compensation 
expense in the Consolidated Statements of Income. The total 

related income tax benefit recogniz
ed was $18 million, $18 million 
and $20 million for the years 
ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 
2008, respectively.  

 
Stock Appreciation Rights (SARs) 

The weighted-average grant-date fair value of SARs granted was 
$5.10, $2.41 and $2.09 per share for the years ended 2010, 2009 
and 2008, respectively. The total gran
t-date fair value of SARs that 
vested during 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $25 million, $26 million 

and $61 million, respectively.   
At December 31, 2010, there was $37 million of stock-based 
compensation expense related to nonvested SARs not yet 

recognized. The expense is expected to be recognized over a 

remaining weighted-average period of approximately 2.7 years. 
 The following table summarizes outstanding and ex
ercisable SARs by grant price at December 31, 2010:
  Restricted Stock Awards (RSAs)  
The total grant-date fair value of RSAs that vested during 2010, 

2009 and 2008 was $30 million, $36 million and $24 million, 

respectively. At December 31, 2010, there was $50 million of 

stock-based compensation expense re
lated to nonvested restricted 
stock not yet recognized. The expense is expected to be 
recognized over a remaining weighted-average period of 

approximately 2.4 years.   
  2010 
2009 2008 
RSAs (shares in thousands) 
Shares 
Weighted- Average Grant-Date Fair Value  
    Shares 
Weighted-Average 
Grant-Date 
Fair Value
      Shares 
Weighted-Average 
Grant-Date 
Fair Value
  Nonvested at January 1 
4,645 $23.85 
5,584 $29.04 3,519 $40.80 
Granted
 1,677 14.69 
751 4.72 3,157 19.27 
Vested 
(817) 36.96 
(870) 40.84 (486) 48.62 
Forfeited 
(347) 22.39 
(820) 23.86 (606) 30.72 
Nonvested at December 31 
5,158  $18.89 
4,645  $23.85 5,584  $29.04 
  
 
  2010 
2009 2008 
SARs (shares in thousands) 
Shares 
Weighted-Average Grant Price    Shares 
Weighted-Average 
Grant Price     Shares 
Weighted-Average 
Grant Price 
Outstanding at January 1 
28,571 $26.82 
22,508 $35.43 17,526 $41.81 
Granted
 5,310 14.74 
8,398 4.05 6,836 19.25 
Exercised 
(319) 3.96 
- - - - 
Forfeited or expired 
(2,410) 30.87 
(2,335) 27.93 (1,854) 36.03 
Outstanding at December 31 
31,152 $24.67 
28,571 $26.82 22,508  $35.43 
Exercisable at December 31 
16,347 $34.94 
12,254 $40.38 8,352 $44.46 
 Outstanding SARs  Exercisable SARs 
Grant Price Per Share 
Number of 
SARs at 
Year End 
(000™s) Weighted-Average   
Grant Price 
Weighted-Average 
Remaining 
Contractual 
Life  
(in years) 
 Number of 
SARs at 
Year End 
(000™s) Weighted-Average   
Grant Price 
 Weighted-Average 
Remaining 
Contractual 
Life  
(in years) 
Under $10.00 7,136
 $4.038.3 1,300
$3.968.3$10.01-$20.00 10,412
 17.048.3 2,718
19.217.3$20.01-$30.00 59
 23.387.2 23
23.687.1$30.01-$40.00 8,580
 38.745.4 7,569
38.805.3Over $40.00 4,965
 46.073.7 4,737
46.353.5All SARs 31,152
 $24.676.8 16,347
$34.945.4         
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 114    Fifth Third Bancorp     
 The following table summarizes unvested RSAs 
by grant-date fair value at December 31, 2010:  Stock options 

There were no stock options gr
anted during 2010. Stock options 
granted during 2009 were immaterial to the Bancorp™s 

Consolidated Financial Statements. The weighted-average grant-

date fair value of stock options granted for the year ended 2008 

was $2.87 per share.    
The total intrinsic value of opt
ions exercised was immaterial 
to the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial Statements in 2010, 2009 
and 2008. Cash received from options exercised during 2010 and 

2009 was immaterial to the Bancorp™s Consolidated Financial 
Statements in 2009. Cash received from options exercised was $3 
million 2008. Tax benefits realized from exercised options were 

immaterial to the Consolidated Financial Statements during 2010, 

2009 and 2008. All stock options were vested at December 31, 

2008, therefore, no stock options vested during 2010 or 2009. The 

total grant-date fair value of stock options that vested during 2008 

was immaterial to the Bancor
p™s Consolidated Financial 
Statements. As of December 31, 2010, the aggregate intrinsic 
value of both outstanding options
 and exercisable options was 
immaterial to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
  2010 
2009 2008 
Stock Options (shares in thousands) 
Shares  
Weighted-Average Exercise Price 
   Shares 
Weighted-Average 
Exercise  Price     Shares 
Weighted-Average 
Exercise  Price 
Outstanding at January 1 
15,504 $49.29 
20,564 $48.97 23,645 $49.07 
Granted 
(a) 
- - 1 8.59 1,133 11.57 
Exercised 
(58) 8.76 
(11) 8.33 (202) 15.32 
Forfeited or expired 
(3,587) 40.54 
(5,050) 48.06 (4,012) 40.73 
Outstanding at December 31 
11,859  $52.01 
15,504  $49.29 20,564  $48.97 
Exercisable at December 31 
11,859 $52.01 
15,504 $49.29 20,564 $48.97 
(a)
 2008 Options granted include 1,131 options assumed as part of the First Charter Corporation acquisition completed on June 6, 20
08. These options were granted under a First 
Charter Corporation Plan assumed by the Bancorp.  
 The following table summarizes outstand
ing and exercisable stock options by
 exercise price at December 31, 2010:
 Other stock-based compensation  
Under the phantom stock program, 488,703 and 299,681 

respective phantom stock units were granted with a weighted 

average grant price of $12.80 and $9.88, during the years ended 
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The phantom stock 
units vest immediately, however, none were settled during 2010 or 

2009.  Performance units are payable contingent upon the Bancorp 
achieving certain predefined performance targets over the three-

year measurement period. Awards granted during 2010 will be 

entirely settled in stock. 
During 2009 and 2008, the awards 
granted are payable 50% in stock and 50% in cash. The 
performance targets are based on the Bancorp™s performance 
relative to a defined peer group. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, 
61,320, 1,118,958 and 186,044 perf
ormance units, respectively, 
were granted by the Bancorp. Th
ese awards were granted at a 
weighted-average grant-date fair 
value of $13.76, $3.96 and $19.18 
per unit during 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  
Performance-based restricted shares were previously issued 
by the Bancorp and were payable in stock and contingent upon 

the Bancorp achieving certain predefined performance targets 

over the one-year measurement period. These performance targets 
were based on the Bancorp™s performance relative to a defined 

peer group. If performance targets were met, the shares were 

vested over a three-year peri
od. The Bancorp granted 179,604 
performance-based restricted shares during 2008 with a weighted-
 Nonvested RSAs 
Grant-Date Fair Value Per Share 
Number of 
RSAs at Year 
End (000™s) 
 Weighted-Average 
Remaining 
Contractual Life 
(in years) 
Under $10.00 
604  1.2
$10.01-$20.00 
3,641  1.6
$20.01-$30.00 
151  1.2
$30.01-$40.00 
728  0.6
Over $40.00 
34  0.3
All RSAs 
5,158  1.4
 Outstanding and Exercisable Stock Options 
Exercise Price per Share 
Number of 
Options at 
Year End 
(000™s) Weighted-Average   
Exercise 
Price 
 Weighted-Average 
Remaining 
Contractual 
Life  
(in years) 
Under $10.00 
237$9.43  0.8
$10.01-$20.00 
89413.64  3.0
$20.01-$30.00 
20125.38  1.2
$30.01-$40.00 
14036.23  3.3
Over $40.00 
10,38757.02  1.2
All stock options 11,859
$52.01  1.4
     
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
     Fifth Third Bancorp    115
 average grant-date fair valu
e of $23.39. The performance 
condition related to the performa
nce-based restricted shares was 
not achieved in 2008. There are no outstanding performance-

based restricted shares at December 31, 2010 and 2009. 
The Bancorp sponsors a stock purchase plan that allows 
qualifying employees to purchase shares of the Bancorp™s 

common stock with a 15% match. During the years ended 
December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, 
there were 749,127, 1,343,632 
and 712,338 shares, respectively, purchased by participants and 

the Bancorp recognized stock-based compensation expense of $1 

million, $1 million and $2 million, respectively.
  
   26.  OTHER NONINTEREST INCOME AND OTHER NONINTEREST EXPENSE 
The following presents the major components of other noninter
est income and other noninterest expense for the years ended Decem
ber 31:  ($ in millions) 
201020092008
Other noninterest income: 
 BOLI income (loss) 
$194(2)(156)
Operating lease income 
625947
 Gain (loss) on loan sales 
5138(11)
 TSA revenue 
4976-
 Insurance income 
384736
 Cardholder fees 
364858
 Consumer loan and lease fees 
324351
Banking center income 
222231
 Loss on sale of OREO 
(78)(70)(60)
 Gain on sale/redemption of Visa, Inc. ownership interests 
-244273
 Litigation settlement 
--76
 Other, net 
 - (26)18
Total $406479363
Other noninterest expense: 
 FDIC insurance and other taxes 
$24226973
 Loan and lease 
211234188
    Losses and adjustments 
18711095
  Affordable housing investments impairment 
1008367
 Marketing  
9879102
 Professional services fees 
7763102
 Travel 
514154
 Postal and courier 
485354
 Intangible asset amortization 
435756
    Insurance 
425030
    Operating lease 
413932
    OREO expense 
332411
    Recruitment and education 
313033
 Supplies 
242531
    Data processing 
242114
 Visa litigation reserve 
-(73)(99)
 Provision for unfunded commitments and letters of credit 
(24)9998
 Other 
166167148
Total $1,394
1,3711,089
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 116    Fifth Third Bancorp        
 27.  EARNINGS PER SHARE  
The calculation of earnings per share and the reconciliation of 
earnings per share to earnings per diluted share for the years 
ended December 31: 
  2010 
2009 2008 
(in millions, except per share data) 
Income 
Average Shares 
Per Share 
Amount Income Average 
Shares Per Share 
Amount Income 
Average 
Shares Per Share 
Amount 
Earnings per share:  
 Net income (loss) attributable to 
Bancorp 
$753 
$737 ($2,113) 
Dividends on preferred stock 
250 
226 67 
Net income (loss) available to 
common shareholders  
503  511  (2,180)  
Income (loss) allocated to 
participating securities 
3 4 (21) 
Net income (loss) allocated to 
common shareholders 
$500 791$0.63
$507696$0.73 ($2,159) 553($3.91)
Earnings per diluted share:  
  Net income (loss) available to 
common shareholders  
$503 
$511 ($2,180) 
Effect of dilutive securities: 
       Stock based awards 
 5-
2-  --
Warrants related to Series F preferred stock 
 3-
--  --
Series G convertible preferred   
stock 
(a) 
 - --
(21)28(0.06) - --
Net income (loss) available to 
common shareholders plus 

assumed conversions 
503 
490 (2,180) 
Income (loss) allocated to 
participating securities 
3 4 (21) 
Net income (loss) allocated to 
common shareholders 
$500 799$0.63
$486726$0.67 ($2,159) 553($3.91)
(a)
 The additive effect to income from dividends on convertible pref
erred stock for the year ended December 31, 2009 included prefe
rred dividends of $14 for Series G preferred shares, 
offset by a $35 reduction to preferred dividends due to the conv
ersion of a portion of Series G preferred shares during the sec
ond quarter of 2009.
  The diluted earnings per share computation for the years ended 

December 31, 2010 and 2009 excludes 23 million stock 

appreciation rights, 12 million and 17 million stock options, 

respectively, that had not yet been exercised, 1 million and 4 

million shares, respectively, of unvested restricted stock and 36 
million shares related to the Bancorp™s Series G preferred stock 
that were not part of the conversion of preferred shares in the 

second quarter of 2009. The shares were excluded from the 

computation of net income per diluted share because their 

inclusion would have been anti-dilu
tive to earnings per share.   
For the year ended December 31, 2009, there were 44 million 
shares under warrants related to the Bancorp™s Series F preferred 

stock from the CPP that were excluded from the computation of 
net income per diluted share, as their inclusion would have been 
anti-dilutive to earnings per share 
due to the exercise price of the 
shares being greater than the average market price of the common 

shares. The warrants have an initial exercise price of $11.72 per 

share. 
Due to the net loss for the year ended December 31, 2008, 
the diluted earnings per share calculation excluded all common 

stock equivalents, including 43 million stock options and stock 

appreciation rights, 6 million shares of restricted stock, 96 million 

common shares from convertible preferred stock and 44 million 

shares under warrants related to the CPP as their inclusion would 

have been anti-dilutive to earnings per share. 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
    Fifth Third Bancorp    117     
28.  FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS 
 The Bancorp measures certain financial assets and liabilities at fair 
value in accordance with U.S. GAAP, which defines fair value as 
the price that would be received to 
sell an asset or paid to transfer 
a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at 

the measurement date. U.S. GAAP also establishes a fair value 

hierarchy, which prioritizes the 
inputs to valuation techniques 
used to measure fair value into three broad levels. The fair value 

hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices in active 

markets for identical assets or liabilities (Level 1) and the lowest 
priority to unobservable inputs 
(Level 3). A financial instrument™s 
categorization within the fair v
alue hierarchy is based upon the 
lowest level of input that is significant to the instrument™s fair 

value measurement. The three levels within the fair value 

hierarchy are described as follows:    
 Level 1
 Œ Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for 
identical assets or liabilities that the Bancorp has the ability 

to access at the measurement date.  
  Level 2
 Œ Inputs other than quoted prices included within 
Level 1 that are observable for 
the asset or liability, either 
directly or indirectly. Level 2 
inputs include: quoted prices 
for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices 
for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are 
not active; inputs other than quoted prices that are 
observable for the asset or liability; and inputs that are 

derived principally from or corroborated by observable 

market data by correlation or other means. 
 Level 3
 Œ Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability for 
which there is little, if any, market activity at the 

measurement date. Unobservable inputs reflect the 

Bancorp™s own assumptions abou
t what market participants 
would use to price the asset or liability. The inputs are 
developed based on the best information available in the 

circumstances, which might include the Bancorp™s own 
financial data such as intern
ally developed pricing models, 
discounted cash flow methodologies, as well as instruments 

for which the fair value determination requires significant 

management judgment.
  Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a 
Recurring Basis
 The following tables summarize assets and liabilities measured at 

fair value on a recurring basis, in
cluding financial instruments in 
which the Bancorp has elected the fair value option.  
                                  Fair Value Measurements Using
 As of December 31, 2010 ($ in millions) 
                Level 1           Level 2            Level 3 Total Fair Value 
Assets:     
     Available-for-sale securities: 
    
        U.S. Treasury and Government agencies 
$230 - - $230 
        U.S. Government sponsored agencies 
- 1,645 - 1,645 
        Obligations of st
ates and political subdivisions 
- 172 - 172 
        Agency mortgage-backed securities 
- 10,973 - 10,973 
        Other bonds, notes and debentures 
- 1,342 - 1,342 
        Other securities 
(a) 180 4 - 184 
          Available-for-sale securities 
(a) 410 14,136 - 14,546 
     
     Trading securities: 
    
        U.S. Treasury and Government agencies 
1 - - 1 
        Obligations of st
ates and political subdivisions 
  - 20 1 21 
        Agency mortgage-backed securities 
- 8 - 8 
        Other bonds, notes and debentures 
- 115 5 120 
        Other securities 
47 97 - 144 
          Trading securities  
48 240 6 294 
     
     Residential mortgage loans held for sale 
  - 1,892 - 1,892 
     Residential mortgage loans 
(b)
  - - 46 46 
     Derivative assets: 
    
         Interest rate contracts 
90 1,448 13 1,551 
         Foreign exchange contracts 
- 343 - 343 
         Equity contracts 
- - 81 81 
         Commodity contracts 
- 99 - 99 
            Derivative assets 
90 1,890 94 2,074 
Total assets 
$548 18,158 146 $18,852 
Liabilities: 
    
     Derivative liabilities 
       
         Interest rate contracts 
14 846 11 871 
         Foreign exchange contracts 
- 323 - 323 
         Equity contracts 
- - 28 28 
         Commodity contracts 
- 92 - 92 
            Derivative liabilities 
14 1,261 39 1,314 
     
Short positions 
1 1 - 2 
Total liabilities 
$15 1,262 39 $1,316 
     
  
 
 
 
 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 118    Fifth Third Bancorp         
                                  Fair Value Measurements Using
 As of December 31, 2009 ($ in millions)                 Level 1 
          Level 2            Level 3 Total Fair Value 
Assets:     
     Available-for-sale securities: 
    
        U.S. Treasury and Government agencies $458 --$458 
        U.S. Government sponsored agencies - 2,142-2,142 
        Obligations of states 
and political subdivisions - 243-243 
        Agency mortgage-backed securities - 11,382-11,382 

        Residual interests in securitizations - -                          174 174 
        Other bonds, notes and debentures - 2,395-2,395 
        Other securities 
(a) 517 9-526 
          Available-for-sale securities 
(a) 975 16,17117417,320 
    
     Trading securities:    

        Obligations of states 
and political subdivisions  - 56157 
        Agency mortgage-backed securities - 24-24 
        Other bonds, notes and debentures - 2014205 
        Other securities 61 -869 
          Trading securities  61 28113355 
        Residential mortgage loans held for sale 
  - 1,470-1,470 
     Residential mortgage loans 
(b)
  - -2626 
     Derivative instruments
 33 1,616841,733 
Total assets $1,069 19,538297$20,904 
Liabilities:   
     Other liabilities 
(c)  
 $6 1,01375$1,094 
Total liabilities $6 1,01375$1,094 
(a) Excludes FHLB and FRB restricted stock totaling 
$524
 and 
$344
, respectively, at December 31, 2010
, and
 $551 and $342, respectively, at December 31, 2009.
(b) Includes residential mortgage loans originated as held fo
r sale and subsequently transferred to held for investment.
  (c) Includes derivative liabilities with a 
negative fair value and short positions. 
  The following is a description of
 the valuation methodologies used 
for significant instruments measured 
at fair value, as well as the 
general classification of such inst
ruments pursuant to the valuation 
hierarchy. There were no financial 
assets or liabilities transferred 
between Level 1 and Level 2 of the 
fair value hierarchy for any of 
the periods presented. Residential mortgage loans held for sale that 

are reclassified to held for investment are transferred from Level 2 

to Level 3 of the fair value hierar
chy as described below. It is the 
Bancorp™s policy to value any transf
ers between levels of the fair 
value hierarchy based on end of period fair values. 
 Available-for-sale and trading securities
 Where quoted prices are available in an active market, securities 

are classified within Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. Level 1 

securities include government bond
s and exchange traded equities. 
If quoted market prices are not 
available, then fair values are 
estimated using pricing models, quo
ted prices of securities with 
similar characteristics, or discounted
 cash flows. Examples of such  
instruments, which are classified within Level 2 of the valuation 
hierarchy, include agency and non-agency mortgage-backed 

securities, other asset-backed s
ecurities, obligations of U.S. 
Government sponsored agencies, and corporate and municipal 

bonds. Agency mortgage-backed securities, obligations of U.S. 

Government sponsored agencies, and corporate and municipal 

bonds are generally valued using a market approach based on 

observable prices of securities wi
th similar characteristics. Non-
agency mortgage-backed securities and other asset-backed 
securities are generally valued us
ing an income approach based on 
discounted cash flows, incorporating prepayment speeds, 

performance of underlying collat
eral and specific tranche-level 
attributes. In certain cases where 
there is limited activity or less 
transparency around inputs to 
the valuation, securities are 
classified within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. Trading 

securities classified as Level 3 c
onsist of auction rate securities. 
Due to the illiquidity in the market
 for these types of securities at 
December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Bancorp measured fair value 
using a discount rate based on the assumed holding period.  
 Residential mortgage loans held for sale and held for investment
 For residential mortgage loans held 
for sale, fair value is estimated 
based upon mortgage-backed securities prices and spreads to those 

prices or, for certain ARM lo
ans, DCF models that may 
incorporate the anticipated portfo
lio composition, credit spreads 
of asset-backed securities with similar collateral, and market 

conditions. The anticipated portfolio composition includes the 
effect of interest rate spreads and discount rates due to loan 
characteristics such as the state 
in which the loan was originated, 
the loan amount and the ARM margin. Residential mortgage loans 

held for sale that are valued ba
sed on mortgage backed securities 
prices are classified within Level 
2 of the valuation hierarchy as the 
valuation is based on external pricing for similar instruments. 

ARM loans classified as held for sale are also classified within 

Level 2 of the valuation hierarchy due to the use of observable 
inputs in the DCF model. These obs
ervable inputs include interest 
rate spreads from agency mortgage-backed securities market rates 

and observable discount rates. For residential mortgage loans 

reclassified from held for sale to 
held for investment, the fair value 
estimation is based primarily on the underlying collateral values. 

Therefore, these loans are classified
 within Level 3 of the valuation 
hierarchy.   Derivatives 

Exchange-traded derivatives valued using quoted prices and 

certain over-the-counter derivatives valued using active bids are 

classified within Level 1 of the valuation hierarchy. Most derivative 

contracts are valued using discount
ed cash flow or other models 
that incorporate current market interest rates, credit spreads 
assigned to the derivative counterparties and other market 

parameters and, therefore, are classified within Level 2 of the 

valuation hierarchy. Such derivati
ves include basic and structured NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                                   
  Fifth Third Bancorp    119     
interest rate swaps and options. Derivatives that are valued based 
upon models with significant unobservable market parameters are 

classified within Level 3 of th
e valuation hierarchy. At December 
31, 2010, derivatives classified as Level 3, which are valued using 
an option-pricing model containin
g unobservable inputs, consisted 
primarily of warrants and put rights
 associated with the Processing 
Business Sale and a total return swap associated with the 

Bancorp™s sale of Visa, Inc. Class B shares. Level 3 derivatives also 

include interest rate lock comm
itments, which utilize internally 
generated loan closing rate assumptions as a significant 
unobservable input in the valuation process.  
In connection with the Processing Business Sale, the Bancorp 
provided Advent International with
 certain put options that are 
exercisable in the event of certain
 circumstances. In addition, the 
warrants associated with the Pr
ocessing Business Sale allow the 
Bancorp to purchase an incremental 10% nonvoting interest in 

FTPS under certain defined conditions involving change of 

control. The fair values of 
the warrants and put options are 
calculated applying Black-Scholes
 option valuation models using 
probability weighted scenarios.  
 
The assumptions utilized in the models are summa
rized in the following table as of December 31: 
  2010  2009 
   Warrants Put Options      Warrants Put Options 
Expected term 
8.5 - 18.5 years.5 - 3.0 years
 9.5 - 19.5 years.5 - 4.0 years
Expected volatility 
(a) 36.0 - 37.0%25.6 - 44.6%
 36.7 - 41.1%31.3 - 50.2%
Risk free rate 
3.06 - 4.18%0.23 - 1.05%
 3.96 - 4.68%0.27 - 2.23%
Expected dividend rate 
0%0%
 0%0%
(a)
 Based on historical and implied volatilities of comp
arable companies assuming 
similar expected terms. 
 Under the terms of the total return swap, the Bancorp will make 
or receive payments based on subsequent changes in the 

conversion rate of the Visa Class B shares into Class A shares. The 

fair value of the total return swap was calculated using a DCF 
model based on unobservable inpu
ts consisting of management™s 
estimate of the probability of certain
 litigation scenarios, timing of 
litigation settlements and payments related to the swap. 
The net fair value of the interest rate lock commitments at 
December 31, 2010 was immaterial to the Bancorp. At December 

31, 2010, immediate decreases in current interest rates of 25 bp 

and 50 bp would result in increases in the fair value of the interest 

rate lock commitments of $14 million and $27 million, 
respectively. Immediate increases of current interest rates of 25 bp 
and 50 bp would result in decreases in the fair value of the interest 

rate lock commitments of $16 million and $33 million, 

respectively, at December 31, 2010. The change in fair value of 
interest rate lock commitments at December 31, 2010 due to 
immediate 10% and 20% favorable and adverse changes in the 

assumed loan closing rates would 
be immaterial to the Bancorp. 
These sensitivities are hypothetical and should be used with 

caution, as changes in fair value based on a variation in 

assumptions typically cannot be
 extrapolated because the 
relationship of the change in assumptions to the change in fair 

value may not be linear.  The following tables are a reconciliation of assets and liabilitie
s measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significa
nt unobservable 
inputs (Level 3): 
                                                              Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Lev
el 3)
  For the year ended December 31, 2010  

($ in millions) Residual Interests in 
SecuritizationsTrading Securities 
Residential 
Mortgage Loans 
Interest Rate Derivatives, 
Net 
(a) Equity 
Derivatives, 
Net 
(a)  Total  Fair Value 
Beginning balance $174 13 26 (2) 11 $222 
   Total gains or losses (realized/unrealized): 
      
       Included in earnings  
- 3 - 187 (14) 176 
       Included in other comprehensive income 
- - - - - - 
   Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements, net  
(174)(b) (10) (6) (183) 56 (317) 
   Transfers in and/or out of Level 3 
(c)
 -  26 - - 26 
Ending balance 
$ - 6 46 2 53 $107 
The amount of total gains or losses for the period 
included in earnings attributable to the change in 
unrealized gains or losses relating to assets still held 

at December 31, 2010 
(d) $ - - -  
   60 (14) $46 
                                                                 Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Lev
el 3)
  For the year ended December 31, 2009 ($ in millions) 
Residual Interests in 
SecuritizationsTrading Securities 
Residential 
Mortgage Loans  
Derivatives, 
Net 
(e)
  Total  Fair Value 
Beginning balance $146  - 7  24 $177 
   Total gains or losses (realized/unrealized):       
       Included in earn
ings  10 (4) (2)  145 149 
       Included in other comprehensive income 3 - -  - 3 
   Purchases, sales, issuances and se
ttlements, net 15 17 (8)  (160) (136) 
   Transfers in and/or out of Level 3 
(c)
 -  29  - 29 
Ending balance $174 13 26  9 $222 
The amount of total gains or losses for the period included in 
earnings attributable to the change in unrealized gains or losses 
relating to assets still held at December 31, 2009 
(d) $6 (4) (2)   16 $16 
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 120    Fifth Third Bancorp         
                                                               Fair Value Measurements Using Significant Unobservable Inputs (Lev
el 3)
  For the year ended December 31, 2008 ($ in millions) 
Residual Interests in 
SecuritizationsResidential 
Mortgage Loans  
Derivatives, 
Net 
(e)
  Total  Fair Value 
Beginning balance $10 -  (4) $6 
   Total gains or losses (realized/unrealized):      
       Included in earnings  (15) (1)  54 38 

       Included in other comprehensive income 1 -  - 1 
   Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements, net 150 -  (26) 124 
   Transfers in and/or out of Level 3 
(c)
 - 8  - 8 
Ending balance $146 7  24 $177 
The amount of total gains or losses for the 
period included in earnings attributable 
to the change in unrealized gains or losses
 relating to assets still held at December 
31, 2008 
(d) ($15) (1)   27 $11 
(a)
 Net interest rate derivatives include derivative assets and liabilities of 
$13 
and 
$11, respectively. Net equity derivatives incl
ude derivative assets and liabilities of 
$81
 and 
$28
, respectively. 
(b)
 Due to a change in U.S. GAAP adopted by the Bancorp on January 
1, 2010, all residual interests in securitizations were eliminat
ed concurrent with the consolidation of the 
related VIEs. See Note 1 for further discussion. 
(c) Includes residential mortgage loans held for sale 
that were transferred to held for investment. 
(d)
 Includes interest income and expense. 
(e) Net derivatives include derivative assets and liabilities of $84 
and $75, respectively, at Decemb
er 31, 2009, and derivative as
sets and liabilities of $30 and $6, respectively, at 
December 31, 2008. 
  The total gains and losses included in earnings for assets and 
liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using si
gnificant 
unobservable inputs (Level 3) were recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Income as follows:  
 ($ in millions) 
              2010               
2009          2008 
Interest income 
$ -157 
Mortgage banking net revenue 
18712753 
Corporate banking revenue 
11(4) 
Other noninterest income 
(15)155 
Securities gains (losses), net 
3(5)(23) 
Other noninterest expense 
-(4)- 
Total gains 
$17614938 
 The total gains and losses included in earnin
gs attributable to changes 
in unrealized gains and losses
 related to Level 3 asset
s and liabilities still 
held at year end were recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Income as follows: 
 ($ in millions)                 2010 
        2009         2008 
Interest income 
$ - 11 7 
Mortgage banking net revenue 
60 
(7) 21 Corporate banking revenue 
1 1 1 Other noninterest income 
(15) 
20 5 
Securities losses, net 
- (5) (23) Other noninterest expense 
- (4) - Total gains 
$46 
16 11 
 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis 
Certain assets and liabilities are measured at fair value on a 
nonrecurring basis. These assets
 and liabilities are not measure
d at fair value on an 
ongoing basis; however, they are subject to 
fair value adjustments in certain circumst
ances, such as when there is evidence of 
impairment. The following table represents those assets an
d liabilities that were subject to fair v
alue adjustments during the years ended Dece
mber 31, 2010 
and 2009 and the related losses from such fair value adjustments.  
   Fair Value Measurements Using
 Total Losses
  ($ in millions)                 Level 1           Level 2            Level 3 
Total  
Year Ended December 31, 2010
Commercial nonaccrual loans held for sale
 $120 - 770 $890  ($448) 
Commercial and industrial loans
  - - 272 272  (470) 
Commercial mortgage loans 
- - 234 234  (207) 
Commercial construction loans 
- - 109 109  (159) 
Residential mortgage loans 
- - 3 3  (6) 
Other consumer loans 
- 71 10 81  (12) 
MSRs - - 822 822  (36) 
OREO property 
- - 527 527  (264) 
Total  $120 71 2,747 $2,938  ($1,602) 
     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 Fifth Third Bancorp    121 
  Fair Value Measurements Using
 Total Losses
  ($ in millions)                 Level 1           Level 2            Level 3 
Total  
Year Ended December 31, 2009 
Commercial nonaccrual loans held for sale
 $60 - 163 $223  ($56) 
Residential mortgage loans held for sale - - 55 55  (2) 
Commercial and industrial loans
  64 - 243 307  (217) 
Commercial mortgage loans 37 - 303 340  (136) 

Commercial construction loans 40 - 199 239  (150) 
Commercial leases - - 1 1  (2) 
MSRs - - 699 699  (24) 

OREO property - - 461 461  (131) 

Investment in FTPS Holding, LLC - 524 - 524  - 
Total  $201 524 2,124 $2,849  ($718) 
 During 2010, the Bancorp transferred $650 million of commercial 
loans from the portfolio to loans 
held for sale. Of the loans that 
were transferred to held for sale, $112 million were fair valued 

based on executable bids and, theref
ore, classified within Level 1 
of the valuation hierarchy. The 
remaining $538 million were fair 
valued based on discounted cash flow models incorporating 

appraisals of the underlying collat
eral, as well as assumptions 
about investor return requireme
nts and amounts and timing of 
expected cash flows and, therefor
e, classified within Level 3 of 
the valuation hierarchy. In addition,
 existing loans held for sale of 
$240 million were further adjusted, $8 million of which were 

based on executable bids and theref
ore classified within Level 1 
of the valuation hierarchy, and the remaining $232 million based 

on appraisals of the underlying 
collateral value and, therefore, 
classified within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. 
During 2010, and 2009, the Banc
orp recorded nonrecurring 
impairment adjustments to cert
ain commercial and industrial, 
commercial mortgage and commercial construction loans held for 
investment. Such amounts are generally based on the fair value of 

the underlying collateral supporting the loan and were classified 

within Level 3 of the valuation 
hierarchy. During 2009, certain 
amounts were based on bids for th
e loans in active markets and, 
therefore, classified within Level 
1 of the valuation hierarchy. In 
cases where the carrying value exceeds the fair value, an 

impairment loss is recognized.  
During 2010, the Bancorp recorded nonrecurring 
adjustments to certain residential mortgage loans. The fair value 

of these loans was based on the un
derlying collateral values and, 
therefore, classified within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. 
During 2010, the Bancorp recorded nonrecurring 
adjustments to certain other cons
umer loans. As indicated in 
Note 12, the Bancorp provides funding to certain entities 

sponsored by third parties to finance consumer loans originated 
by third parties. During 2010, one of these entities agreed to 
transfer ownership of its underlying consumer loans to the 

Bancorp, and these loans are now classified as held for 

investment. Upon transfer, the Bancorp was required to measure 

and record the loans at fair valu
e, which was determined using a 
DCF model, which are classified within Level 2 of the valuation 

hierarchy, and in some cases, the value of the underlying 

collateral, which are classified within Level 3 of the valuation 
hierarchy. During 2010 and 2009, the Bancorp recognized temporary 
impairments in certain classes of
 the MSR portfolio in which the 
carrying value was adjusted to fair value as of December 31, 2010 

and 2009. MSRs do not trade in an active, open market with 

readily observable prices. While sales of MSRs do occur, the 

precise terms and conditions typically are not readily available. 

Accordingly, the Bancorp estimates the fair value of MSRs using 
discounted cash flow models wi
th certain unobservable inputs, 
primarily prepayment speed assumptions, resulting in a 

classification within Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. Refer to 

Note 13 for further information on the Bancorp™s MSRs. 
During 2010 and 2009, the Banc
orp recorded nonrecurring 
adjustments to certain commercial and residential real estate 
properties classified as OREO and measured at the lower of 

carrying amount or fair value, le
ss costs to sell. Such fair value 
amounts are generally based on appraisals of the property values, 

resulting in a classification within Level 3 of the valuation 

hierarchy. In cases where the carrying amount exceeds the fair 

value, less costs to sell, an im
pairment loss is recognized. The 
previous table reflects the fair value measurements of the 
properties before deducting the estimated costs to sell. 
During 2009, the Bancorp purchased residential mortgage 
loans with a principal balance of $57 million. The Bancorp 

subsequently recorded nonrecurring impairment adjustments 

totaling $2 million during 2009. Su
ch amounts are generally based 
on the fair value of the underlyi
ng collateral supporting the loan 
and, therefore, classified within 
Level 3 of the valuation hierarchy. 
On June 30, 2009, the Bancorp recorded an investment in 
FTPS Holdings, LLC related to its retained noncontrolling 
interest from the Processing Business Sale. The investment™s fair 

value was based on the Bancorp™s proportional share of the 

LLC™s equity capital and was 
measured using observable data directly from the sales transact
ion with Advent International. 
Therefore, this investment was classified within Level 2 of the 

valuation hierarchy. In subsequent periods, the investment in 

FTPS Holdings, LLC has been recorded under the equity method 
of accounting.  Fair Value Option 
The Bancorp has elected to measure residential mortgage loans held 
for sale under the fair value option as allowed under U.S. GAAP. 

Management™s intent to sell resident
ial mortgage loans classified as 
held for sale may change over time due to such factors as changes in 
the overall liquidity in markets or changes in characteristics specific to 

certain loans held for sale. Consequently, these loans may be 

reclassified to loans held for investment and maintained in the 
Bancorp™s loan portfolio. In such cases, the loans will continue to be 
measured at fair value. Residential loans with fair values of $26 

million and $29 million, respectively, were transferred to the 

Bancorp™s portfolio during 2010 and 2009. Losses related to fair 
value adjustments on these loans were immaterial to the Bancorp for 
the year ended December 31, 2010, compared to $2 million of losses 

during 2009.  
Fair value changes included in earnings for instruments for 
which the fair value option was elected included losses of $191 
million and $162 million, respectively during 2010 and 2009. These 

losses are reported as mortgage banking net revenue in the 

Consolidated Statements of Income.  
Valuation adjustments related to
 instrument-specific credit risk 
for residential mortgage loans meas
ured at fair value negatively 
impacted the fair value of these loans by $5 million and $3 million, 

respectively, during 2010 and 2009. Interest on residential mortgage 
loans measured at fair value is a
ccrued as it is earned using the 
effective interest method and is re
ported as interest income in the 
Consolidated Statements of Income.
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 122    Fifth Third Bancorp        
 The following tables summarize the difference between the aggreg
ate fair value and the aggregate unpaid principal balance for r
esidential 
mortgage loans measured at fair value. 
  ($ in millions) 
Aggregate 
Fair Value
Aggregate Unpaid  
Principal Balance Difference 
As of December 31, 2010  
   
Residential mortgage loans measured at fair value 
$1,938 1,913 $25 
Past due loans of 90 days or more 
5 6 (1) 
Nonaccrual loans 
1 1 - 
    
As of December 31, 2009  
  Residential mortgage loans measured at fair value $1,496 1,463 $33 

Past due loans of 90 days or more 3 4 (1) 

Nonaccrual loans 1 1 - 
 Fair Value of Certain Financial Instruments  
The following table summarizes carrying amou
nts and estimated fair values for certain
 financial instruments, excluding financia
l instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis at:  December 31, 2010 ($ in millions) 
        Carrying 
       Amount         Fair Value 
Financial assets: 
     Cash and due from banks 
$2,159 2,159
    Other securities 
868 868
 Held-to-maturity securities 
353 353
    Other short-term investments 
1,515 1,515
 Loans held for sale 
324 324
 Portfolio loans and leases:  
 Commercial and industrial loans 
26,068 27,322
Commercial mortgage loans 
10,248 9,513
Commercial construction loans 
1,890 1,471
Commercial leases 
3,267 2,934
Residential mortgage loans 
(a) 8,600 7,577
Home equity 
11,248 9,366
Automobile loans 
10,910 10,975
Credit card 
1,738 1,786
Other consumer loans and leases 
622 682
Unallocated allowance for loan and lease losses 
(150) -
Total portfolio loans and leases, net 
(a)
 74,441 71,626
Financial liabilities: 
     Deposits 
81,648 81,860
    Federal funds purchased 
279 279
    Other short-term borrowings 
1,574 1,574
 Long-term debt 
9,558 9,921
(a)
 Excludes 
$46
 of residential mortgage loans measured
 at fair value on a recurring basis. 
  December 31, 2009 ($ in millions) 
Carrying 
Amount Fair Value 
Financial assets: 
    Cash and due from banks 
$2,3182,318
    Other securities  
893893
 Held-to-maturity securities 
     355355
    Other short-term investments 
  3,3693,369
 Loans held for sale  
          543543
 Portfolio loans and leases, net 
(a)
 73,00468,748
Financial liabilities: 
    Deposits 
 84,305     84,544
    Federal funds purchased 
     182182
    Other short-term borrowings 
1,4151,415
 Long-term debt 
10,5079,899
(a)
 Excludes $26 of residential mortgage loans meas
ured at fair value on a recurring basis. 
    
     
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
   Fifth Third Bancorp    123 
 Cash and due from banks, other securi
ties, other short-term investments, 
deposits, federal funds purchased and other short-term borrowings 

For financial instruments with a shor
t-term or no stated maturity, 
prevailing market rates and limited credit risk, carrying amounts 
approximate fair value. Those fi
nancial instruments include cash 
and due from banks, FHLB and FRB restricted stock, other short-

term investments, certain deposits (demand, interest checking, 

savings, money market and foreign office deposits), and federal 

funds purchased. Fair values fo
r other time deposits, certificates 
of deposit $100,000 and over and other short-term borrowings 

were estimated using a discounted cash flow calculation that 
applied prevailing LIBOR/swap interest rates for the same 
maturities. 
 
Held-to-maturity securities
 The Bancorp's held-to-maturity securities are primarily composed 

of instruments that provide income tax credits as the economic 

return on the investment. The fair value of these instruments is 

estimated based on current U.S. 
Treasury tax credit rates.   
 
  Loans held for sale
  Fair values for commercial loans held for sale were valued based 
on executable bids when available,
 or on discounted cash flow 
models incorporating appraisals of
 the underlying collateral, as 
well as assumptions about investor return requirements and 

amounts and timing of expected ca
sh flows. Fair values for other 
consumer loans held for sale are 
based on contractual values upon 
which the loans may be sold to a third party, and approximate 

their carrying value. 

Portfolio loans and leases, net
 Fair values were estimated by di
scounting future cash flows using 
the current market rates of loans to borrowers with similar credit 
characteristics and similar remaining maturities. 
 
Long-term debt Fair value of long-term debt was 
based on quoted market prices, 
when available, or a discounted cash flow calculation using 

LIBOR/swap interest rates and, in some cases, a spread for new 

issues for borrowings of similar terms.   
 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 124    Fifth Third Bancorp          
 29.  CERTAIN REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS AND CAPITAL RATIOS 
The principal source of income and funds for the Bancorp (parent 
company) are dividends from its subsidiaries. The dividends paid 

by the Bancorp™s state chartered 
bank are subject to regulations 
and limitations prescribed by the appropriate state authority. The 

Bancorp™s nonbank subsidiaries are 
also limited by certain federal 
and state statutory provisions and 
regulations covering the amount 
of dividends that may be paid in any given year. 
The Bancorp™s subsidiary banks must maintain cash reserve 
balances when total reservable de
posit liabilities are greater than 
the regulatory exemption. These reserve requirements may be 

satisfied with vault cash and no
ninterest-bearing cash balances on 
deposit with the FRB. In 2010 and 2009, the subsidiary banks were 

required to maintain average cash reserve balances of $547 million 
and $439 million, respectively.  
The FRB adopted guidelines pursuant to which it assesses the 
adequacy of capital in examining and supervising a bank holding 

company and in analyzing applic
ations to it under the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, as
 amended. These guidelines 
include quantitative measures that a
ssign risk weightings to assets 
and off-balance sheet items, as 
well as define and set minimum 
regulatory capital requirements. All bank holding companies are 
required to maintain core capital (Tier I) of at least four percent of 
risk-weighted assets (Tier I capital ratio), total capital of at least 

eight percent of risk-weighted assets. (Total risk-based capital 

ratio) and Tier I capital of at least three percent of adjusted 

quarterly average assets (Tier I leverage ratio). Failure to meet the 

minimum capital requirements ca
n initiate certain actions by 
regulators that could have a direct material effect on the 

Consolidated Financial Statements of the Bancorp.   
Tier I capital consists princi
pally of shareholders™ equity 
including Tier I qualifying trust preferred securities. It excludes 

unrealized gains and losses on av
ailable-for-sale securities and 
unrecognized pension actuarial g
ains and losses and prior service 
cost, goodwill and certain other intangibles. Current provisions of 

the recently enacted Dodd-Frank Act will phase out the inclusion 

of certain trust preferred securities as a component of Tier I 

capital beginning January 1, 2013. Under these provisions, these 
trust preferred securities would qualify as a component of Tier II 
capital. At December 31, 2010, the Bancorp™s Tier I capital 

included $2.8 billion of trust preferred securities. 
Tier II capital consists principally of perpetual and trust 
preferred stock that is not eligible to be included as Tier I capital, 

term subordinated debt, intermediate-term preferred stock and, 

subject to limitations, allowances
 for loan and lease losses.  
Assets and credit equivalent amounts of off-balance-sheet 
items are assigned to one of several broad risk categories, 

according to the obligor, guarantor or nature of collateral. The 

aggregate dollar value of the amount of each category is multiplied 

by the associated risk weighting of that category. The resulting 
weighted values from each of the risk categories in sum is the total 
risk-weighted assets. Quarterly aver
age assets for this purpose do 
not include goodwill and any other intangible assets and other 

investments that the FRB determines should be deducted from 

Tier I capital.   
The supervisory agencies, including the Bancorp™s primary 
regulator, the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, have issued 

regulations regarding the capit
al adequacy of subsidiary banks. 
These requirements are substantially similar to those adopted by 
the FRB regarding bank holding companies, as described 

previously. In addition, the federal banking agencies have issued 

substantially similar regulations 
to implement the system of 
prompt corrective action established by Section 38 of the Federal 

Deposit Insurance Act. Under th
e regulations, a bank generally 
shall be deemed to be well-capitalized if it has a Total risk-based 

capital ratio of 10% or more, a Tier
 I capital ratio of six percent or 
more, a Tier I leverage ratio of five percent or more and is not 
subject to any written capital order 
or directive. If an institution 
becomes undercapitalized, it woul
d become subject to significant 
additional oversight, regulations 
and requirements as mandated by 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.  
On September 30, 2009 the Bancorp merged its Fifth Third 
Bank (Michigan) and Fifth Third Ba
nk N.A. charters into the Fifth 
Third Bank (Ohio) charter. As a result, regulatory capital 
requirements are only applicable to the Bancorp and its subsidiary 
bank, Fifth Third Bank (Ohio) as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. 

The Bancorp and its subsidiary bank had Tier I, Total risk-based 

capital and Tier I leverage ratios above the well-capitalized levels at 

December 31, 2010 and 2009. As of December 31, 2010, the most 

recent notification from the FRB categorized the Bancorp and its 

subsidiary bank as well-capitalized under the regulatory framework 

for prompt corrective action. To continue to qualify for financial 
holding company status pursuant to the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act 
of 1999, the Bancorp™s subsidiary banks must, among other things, 

maintain ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ capital ratios. 
The following table presents capi
tal and risk-based capital and 
leverage ratios for the Bancorp and its subsidiary bank at 

December 31:       2010 
   2009 
($ in millions) 
Amount Ratio 
AmountRatio 
Total risk-based capital (to
 risk-weighted assets): (a)
    Fifth Third Bancorp (Consolidated) 
$18,173 18.14 % 
$17,64817.48 %
 Fifth Third Bank  
14,931 15.17 
15,66315.56 
Tier I capital (to risk-weighted assets): 
    Fifth Third Bancorp (Consolidated) 
13,965 13.94 
13,42813.30 
 Fifth Third Bank  
12,976 13.18 
13,57413.49 
Tier I leverage (to average assets): 
    Fifth Third Bancorp (Consolidated) 
13,965 12.79 
13,42812.34 
 Fifth Third Bank  
12,976 12.08 
13,57412.69 
 (a) Under the banking agencies risk-based ca
pital guidelines, assets and credit equivale
nt amounts of derivatives and off-balanc
e sheet exposures are assigned 
to broad risk categories. The 
aggregate dollar amount in each risk catego
ry is multiplied by the associated risk 
weight of the category. The resulting weight
ed values are added together resulting in the Bancorp™s total 
risk-weighted assets. 
   
     
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
   Fifth Third Bancorp    125     
 30.  PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 ($ in millions) 
Condensed Statements of Income (Parent Company Only) For the years ended December 31 
2010 
2009   2008
Income  
Interest on loans to subsidiaries 
$33 
3980
Expenses  
Interest 
188 222293
Goodwill impairment  
- -57
Other 26 
2024
Total expenses 
214 
242374
Loss Before Income Taxes and Change i
nUndistributed Earnings of Subsidiaries (181) 
(203)(294)
Applicable income tax benefit 
64 
7184
Loss Before Change in Undistributed 
Earnings of Subsidiaries (117) 
(132)(210)
Undistributed earnings (loss) of subsidiaries 
870 
869(1,903)
Net Income (Loss) $753 
737(2,113)
   Condensed Balance Sheets (Parent Company Only) 
  As of December 31 2010
2009
Assets Cash 
$60
2Short-term investments 
2,953
2,350
Loans to subsidiaries 
1,5211,360
Investment in subsidiaries 
15,62216,105
Goodwill 
8080Other assets 
545
381
Total Assets
 $20,781
20,278
Liabilities 
Other short-term borrowings 
$414
280
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
356
695
Long-term debt 
5,960
5,806
Total Liabilities
 6,730
6,781
Shareholders™ Equity 14,051
13,497
Total Liabilities and Shareholders™ Equity $20,781
20,278
  ($ in millions)
 Condensed Statements of Cash Flows (Parent Company Only) 
For the years ended December 31 
2010
2009   2008
Operating Activities
Net income (loss) 
$753
737(2,113)
Adjustments to reconcile net income (loss) 
to net cash provided by operating 
activities: 

Provision (benefit) for deferred income 
taxes (2)211
Goodwill impairment 
--57
Dividend from subsidiary 
1,400--  Undistributed earnings of subsidiaries 
(870)(869)1,903
Net change in: 
  Other assets 
(6)83(85)
  Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
(339)59140
Other, net 
(11)(6)(5)
Net Cash Provided by (Used in)  
Operating Activities
 925
538(192)
Investing Activities
Capital contribution to subsidiaries 
-(1,600)(2,000)
Net cash paid in business combinations 
--(328)
Net change in: 

    Other short-term investments 
(603)1,158(2,423)
    Loans to subsidiaries 
(161)(117)(42)
Net Cash Used in Investing Activities
 (764)(559)(4,793)
Financing Activities
Net change in other short-term borrowings 
134(503)763
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 
--2,126
Repayment of long-term debt 
-(31)(1,714)
Dividends paid on common shares 
(32)(27)(639)
Dividends paid on preferred shares 
(205)(220)(48)
Issuance of preferred shares, series F, G 
--4,480
Issuance of common shares 
-987-
Exercise of stock-based awards 
--4Exchange of preferred shares, Series G 
-(269)-
Dividends on exchange of preferred shares, 
Series G 
-35-
Retirement of preferred shares, series D, E 
--(9)
Dividends on redemption of preferred 
shares, series D, E 
--(19)
Other, net 
-(10)(13)
Net Cash (Used in) Provided by 
Financing Activities
 (103)(38)4,931
Net Increase  (Decrease) in Cash 58
(59)(54)
Cash at Beginning of Year
 261115
Cash at End of Year
$60
261
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 126    Fifth Third Bancorp         
31. BUSINESS SEGMENTS  The Bancorp reports on four business segments: Commercial 
Banking, Branch Banking, C
onsumer Lending and Investment 
Advisors. Results of the Bancorp™s business segments are 

presented based on its management structure and management 

accounting practices. The structur
e and accounting practices are 
specific to the Bancorp; therefore, the financial results of the 
Bancorp™s business segments are not necessarily comparable with 

similar information for other fi
nancial institutions. The Bancorp 
refines its methodologies from time to time as management 

accounting practices are improved and businesses change. 
On June 30, 2009, the Bancorp completed the Processing 
Business Sale, which represented the sale of a majority interest in 

the Bancorp™s merchant acquirin
g and financial institutions 
processing businesses. Financial 
data for the merchant acquiring 
and financial institutions proce
ssing businesses was originally 
reported in the former Processing Solutions segment through 

June 30, 2009. As a result of the sale, the Bancorp no longer 

presents Processing Solutions as a segment and therefore, 

historical financial information for the merchant acquiring and 

financial institutions processing 
businesses has been reclassified 
under General Corporate and Other for all periods presented. 
Interchange revenue previously recorded in the Processing 
Solutions segment and associated with cards currently included in 

Branch Banking is now included 
in the Branch Banking segment 
for all periods presented. Additionally, the Bancorp retained its 

retail credit card and commercial multi-card service businesses, 

which were also originally reported in the former Processing 

Solutions segment through June 30, 2009, and are now included in 

the Consumer Lending and Commercial Banking segments, 
respectively, for all periods presented. Revenue from the 
remaining ownership interest in the Processing Business is 
recorded in General Corporate and Other as noninterest income.
   
The Bancorp manages interest rate risk centrally at the 
corporate level by employing a FTP methodology. This 

methodology insulates the business segments from interest rate 
volatility, enabling them to focus on serving customers through 
loan originations and deposit taking. The FTP system assigns 

charge rates and credit rates to 
classes of assets and liabilities, 
respectively, based on expected
 duration and the LIBOR swap 
curve. Matching duration allocates interest income and interest 

expense to each segment so its resulting net interest income is 

insulated from interest rate risk. 
In a rising rate environment, the 
Bancorp benefits from the widening spread between deposit costs 
and wholesale funding costs. However, the Bancorp™s FTP system 
credits this benefit to deposit-providing businesses, such as 

Branch Banking and Investment Advisors, on a duration-adjusted 

basis. The net impact of the FTP methodology is captured in 

General Corporate and Other. 
The business segments are charged provision expense based 
on the actual net charge-offs experienced by the loans owned by 

each segment. Provision expense a
ttributable to loan growth and 
changes in factors in the allowan
ce for loan and lease losses are 
captured in General Corporate and Other. The financial results of 

the business segments include allo
cations for shared services and 
headquarters expenses. Even with
 these allocations, the financial 
results are not necessarily indica
tive of the business segments™ 
financial condition and results of 
operations as if they existed as 
independent entities. Additionally, 
the business segments form 
synergies by taking advantage of cross-sell opportunities and when 
funding operations, by accessing th
e capital markets as a collective 
unit. 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
   Fifth Third Bancorp    127
 Results of operations and average assets by segmen
t for each of the three years ended December 31 are: 
  2010
 ($ in millions) 
Commercial 
Banking 
Branch Banking 
Consumer  
Lending 
Investment 
Advisors General 
Corporate Eliminations         Total
Net interest income 
(a)
 $1,545 1,501 418 138 20 -3,622
Provision for loan and lease losses 
1,159 542 582 44 (789) -1,538
Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan 
and lease losses 
386 959 (164) 94 809 -2,084
Noninterest income:      
Mortgage banking net revenue 
- 27 619 2 (1) -647
Service charges on deposits 
199 369 1 6 (1) -574
Corporate banking revenue 
346 15 - 3 - -364
Investment advisory revenue 
15 106 - 346 - (106)
(b)361Card and processing revenue  
33 303 (5) 1 (16) -316
Other noninterest income 
42 73 33 (2) 260 -406
Securities gains (losses), net 
- - 14 - 47 -61
Total noninterest income 
635 893 662 356 289 (106)2,729
Noninterest expense:      
Salaries, wages and incentives 
215 433 168 131 483 -1,430
Employee benefits 39 119 32 25 99 -314
Net occupancy expense 
16 174 7 9 92 -298
Technology and communications 
14 16 2 2 155 -189
Equipment expense 
2 49 1 1 69 -122
Card and processing expense 
2 102 4 - - -108
Other noninterest expense 
702 648 345 237 (432) (106)1,394
Total noninterest expense 
990 1,541 559 405 466 (106)3,855
Income before income taxes 31 311 (61) 45 632 -958
Applicable income tax (benefit) expense (
a) (134) 110 (21) 16 234 -205
Net income (loss) 
165 201 (40) 29 398 -753
Less: Net income (loss) attributable to 
noncontrolling interest - - - - - --
Net income (loss) attributable to Bancorp 
165 201 (40) 29 398 -753
Dividends on preferred stock 
- - - - 250 -250
Net income (loss) available to common shareholders 
165 201 (40) 29 148 -503
Average assets 
$43,316 49,066 22,260 6,461 (8,669) -112,434
(a) Includes FTE adjustments of $18. 
(b) Revenue sharing agreements between Investment Advisors and Branch
 Banking are eliminated in the Consolidated Statements of Inco
me 
  2009 ($ in millions) 
Commercial 
Banking 
Branch Banking 
Consumer  
Lending 
Investment 
Advisors General 
Corporate Eliminations         Total
Net interest income 
(a)
 $1,383 1,559 494 157 (220) -3,373
Provision for loan and lease losses 1,360 585 574 57 967 -3,543
Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan 
and lease losses 23 974 (80) 100 (1,187) -(170)
Noninterest income:      
Mortgage banking net revenue - 26 526 1 - -553
Service charges on deposits 196 428 - 8 - -632
Corporate banking revenue 353 10 - 11 (2) -372
Investment advisory revenue 11 84 - 315 (1) (83)
(b)326
Card and processing revenue  28 264 4 1 357 (39)
(c)615
Gain on sale of Processing Business - - - - 1,758 -1,758
Other noninterest income 20 86 40 - 333 -479
Securities gains (losses), net 1 - 57 - (11) -47
Total noninterest income 609 
898 627 336 2,
434 (122)4,782
Noninterest expense:      
Salaries, wages and incentives 186 396 160 117 480 -1,339
Employee benefits 35 
106 27 23 120 -311
Net occupancy expense 
17 169 7 10 105 -308
Technology and communications 6 16 2 2 155 -181
Equipment expense 3 48 1 1 70 -123
Card and processing expense 1 68 2 - 122 -193
Other noninterest expense 741 
569 312 201 (330) (122)1,371
Total noninterest expense 989 
1,372 511 354 
722 (122)3,826
Income (loss) before income taxes (357) 500 36 82 525 -786
Applicable income tax (benefit) expense 
(a)
 (237) 176 13 29 68 -49
Net income (loss) (120) 324 23 53 457 -737
Dividends on preferred stock - - - - 226 -226
Net income (loss) available to common 
shareholders (120) 324 23 53 231 -511
Average assets $46,082 50,019 22,623 5,679 (9,547) -114,856
(a)  Includes FTE adjustments of $19. 
(b) Revenue sharing agreements between Investment Advisors and Branch
 Banking are eliminated in the Consolidated Statements of Inco
me  
(c)  Card and processing revenues provided to the banking segments 
are eliminated in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 128    Fifth Third Bancorp         
 2008 ($ in millions) 
Commercial 
Banking 
Branch Banking 
Consumer  
Lending 
Investment 
Advisors General 
Corporate Eliminations          Total
Net interest income 
(a)
 $1,567 1,714 481 191 (417) - 3,536
Provision for loan and lease losses 1,864 352 441 49 1,854 - 4,560
Net interest income (loss) after provision for loan 
and lease losses (297) 1,362 40 142 (2,271) 
 - (1,024)
Noninterest income:       
Mortgage banking net revenue - 13 184 1 1 - 199

Service charges on deposits 186 447 - 9 (1) - 641
Corporate banking revenue 401 12 - 18 - - 431
Investment advisory revenue 18 84 - 354 (6) (84)
(b) 366
Card and processing revenue  26 246 3 2 701 (66)
(c) 912
Other noninterest income 47 105 40 2 169 - 363

Securities gains (losses), net - - 124 - (90) - 34
Total noninterest income 678 
907 351 386 7
74 (150) 2,946
Noninterest expense:       
Salaries, wages and incentives 208 409 111 133 476 - 1,337
Employee benefits 35 108 26 26 83 - 278

Net occupancy expense 17
 159 8 10 106 - 300
Technology and communications 7 16 2 2 164 - 191
Equipment expense 4 44 1 1 80 - 130
Card and processing expense 1 45 6 - 222 - 274
Goodwill impairment 750 - 215 - - - 965

Other noninterest expense 646 5
12 251 204 (374) (150) 1,089
Total noninterest expense 1,668 
1,293 620 376 7
57 (150) 4,564
Income (loss) before income taxes (1,287) 976 (229) 152 (2,254) - (2,642)
Applicable income tax expense (benefit) 
(a)
 (554) 344 (81) 54 (292) - (529)
Net income (loss) (733) 632 (148) 98 (1,962) - (2,113)
Dividends on preferred stock - - - - 67 - 67

Net income (loss) available to common 
shareholders (733) 632 (148) 98 (2,029) 
 - (2,180)
Average assets $47,834 46,182 23,294 5,496 (8,510) - 114,296
(a)  Includes FTE adjustments of $22. 
(b) Revenue sharing agreements between Investment Advisors and Branch
 Banking are eliminated in the Consolidated Statements of Inco
me. 
(c) Card and processing revenues provided to the banking segments 
are eliminated in the Consolidated Statements of Income. 
 32. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 
 Common stock and senior notes offerings 
On January 25, 2011, the Bancorp raised $1.7 billion in new 
common equity through the is
suance of 121,428,572 shares of 
common stock in an underwriting offering with an initial price of 

$14.00 per share. On January 24, 2011, the underwriters exercised 

their option to purchase an additional 12,142,857 shares at the 

offering price of $14.00 per share. In connection with this 

exercise, the Bancorp entered into a forward sale agreement which 

resulted in a final net payment of 959,821 shares on February 4, 

2011. On January 25, 2011, the Bancorp issued $1.0 billion of 
senior notes to third party investors, and entered into a 

Supplemental Indenture dated January 25, 2011 with Wilmington 

Trust Company, as Trustee, which 
modifies the existing Indenture 
for Senior Debt Securities dated April 30, 2008 between the 

Bancorp and the Trustee. The Supplemental Indenture and the 

Indenture define the rights of the Senior Notes, which Senior 

Notes are represented by Global Secu
rities dated as of January 25, 
2011. The senior notes bear a fixed rate of interest of 3.625% per 
annum. The notes are unsecured, senior obligations of the 

Bancorp. Payment of the full principal amount of the notes will be 

due upon maturity on January 25, 2016. The notes will not be 

subject to the redemption at the Bancorp™s option at any time 

prior to maturity.  Repurchase of outstanding TARP preferred stock 
As further discussed in Note 24, on December 31, 2008, the 
Bancorp issued $3.4 billion of Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual 
Preferred Stock, Series F, and related warrants to the U.S. 

Treasury under the U.S. Treasury™s CPP.  
On February 2, 2011, the Bancorp redeemed all 136,320 
shares of its Series F Preferred Stock held by the U.S. Treasury. 

The net proceeds from the Bancorp™s previously discussed 

common stock and senior notes offerings and other funds were 

used to redeem the $3.4 billion of Series F Preferred Stock. 
In connection with the redemption of the Series F Preferred 
Stock, the Bancorp accelerated the accretion of the remaining 

issuance discount on the Series F Preferred Stock and recorded a 

corresponding reduction in retained earnings of $153 million. This 

resulted in a one-time, noncash re
duction in net income available 
to common shareholders and related basic and diluted earnings 

per share. This transaction will 
be reflected in the Bancorp™s 
Consolidated Financial Statements for the quarter ended March 
31, 2011. Dividends of $15 million were paid on February 2, 2011 
when the Series F Preferred Stock was redeemed. The Bancorp
 notified the U.S. Treasury on February 17, 2011, of its intention to 

negotiate for the purchase of th
e warrants issued to the U.S. 
Treasury in connection with the CPP preferred stock investment. 
 
     1  
TiCoPa 8.CoSt 7.
of 7.
of 8.
of InseYe InreYe InreSemrefil InelInpuchpefil Inpuchthinth SECURIT
IANNUAL R
E15(d) OF THE 
For theCoInI.R.S. E
mAdSecurities regitle of each clasommon Stock, War Value  
5% Non-Cumulonvertible Perpetock  25% Trust Prefef Fifth Third Ca
p25% Trust Prefef Fifth Third Ca
p875% Trust Pre
ff Fifth Third Ca
pndicate by ch
eeasoned issuer, 
es:  No: 
 ndicate by che
ceports pursuant 
es:  No: 
 ndicate by che
ceports required 
ecurities Exch
amonths (or for 
equired to file 
sling requireme
nndicate by che
cectronically an
dnteractive Dataursuant to Ru
lhapter) during 
eriod that the r
eles). Yes:  Nondicate by ch
eursuant to Ite
mhapter) is not 
che best of re
gnformation stat
ehis Form 10-K 
oUNITEDIES AND EX
CWashingtonFORMEPORT PURSUSECURITIE
S fiscal year endommission file 
nncorporated in tmployer Identi
fddress: 38 Fou
nCincinnati, 
Telephone: (8gistere
d pursuanss:   
Without   
  ative Series G  
etual Preferred  
erred Securities 
pital Trust V 
erred Securities 
pital Trust VI 
ferred Securitie
spital Trust VII 
eckmark if t
has defined in 
ckmark if the 
rto Section 13 ock mark wheth
eto be filed 
bange Act of 
1such shorter 
such reports), ants for the past 
9ck mark wheth
d posted on its ca File require
dle 405 of Re
gthe preceding 
egistrant was r
eo:  eck mark if 
dm 405 of Re
gcontained herei
ngistrant™s knowements incorporor any amendm
e STATES 
CHANGE COMn, D.C. 20549
 M 10-K UANT TO SECS EXCHANG
Eded December 
3 number 001-33
6 the State of Ohification No. 31-ntain Square Pl
aOhio 45263  800) 972-3030
   nt to Section 12
( Name of 

on whichThe NASMarket LLThe NAS
Market LLNew YorkNew Yorks New Yor
khe registrant i
Rule 405 of t
hregistrant is no
r Section 15(d) er the registran
tby Section 13 
1934 during thperiod that t
hand (2) has bee90 days
.  Yes:
 er the Registr
acorporate Web 
d to be subm
igulation S-T (§12 months (or 
equired to sub
mdisclosure of gulation S-K (§n, and will notwledge, in de
frated by refere
nent to this FormMMISSION 
CTION 13 O
RE ACT OF 19331, 2010 653 io -0854434  
aza  (b) of the Act:each exchange 
h registere
d: DAQ Stock  
LC  DAQ Stoc
k LC k Stock Exchan
gk Stock Exchan
gk Stock Exchan
gs a well-kno
whe Securities 
At required to 
fof the Act.   t (1) has filed 
or 15(d) of 
the preceding he registrant 
wn subject to s
u No: 
ant has submit
tsite, if any, ev
eitted and pos
t§232.405 of t
hfor such shor
tmit and post s
udelinquent fil
e§229.405 of t
ht be contained, 
finitive proxy nce in Part III 
m 10-K.    R 4  ge ge ge wn Act.  file all the 
12 was uch ted 
ery ted his ter uch 
ers his to or of 
Indfilerepoﬁac

of t LarNonSm Ind(as  ThewithAggof t DOThithe to aTheSharepoShaconDecAnnpartincopart 10-PARItemItem 
Item 

Item 
Item 
Item 
PARItem 
Item 
Item 
Item 
Item 
Item 
Item 
Item 

PAR
Item 
Item 
ItemItem 
Item 
PAR
Item 
SIGNdicate by check 
mr, an accelerat
eorting compan
ycelerated filerﬂ 
the Exchange A
crge accelerated 
fn-accelerated fi
lmaller reporting 
cdicate by check 
defined in Rule 
ere were 917,7
5hout par valuegregate Market 
Vthe Bancorp wa
sOCUMENTS I
Nis report incorp
oU.S. Securities 
annual reports o
ne Banco
rp™s Pr
oareholders is i
nort. Only those 
areholders that 
nstitute part of 
tcember 31, 201
0nual Report to 
St of this For
morporated into t
ht of the Registr
a-K Cross Refe
rRT I  
m 1.
Business 
Employees

Segment In
fAverage Ba
lAnalysis of 

Changes 

Investment 
SLoan and L
eRisk Eleme
nDeposits 

Return on E
Short-term 
B1A. 
Risk Factor
s1B. 
Unresolved 
2. Properties 
3. Legal Proce
4. (Removed 
aExecutive 
OT II  5. Market for 
RStockholde
rSecurities 
6. Selected Fi
n7. Manageme
nCondition a
n7A. 
Quantitativ
eRisk  
8. Financial St
9. Changes in 
aAccounting 
9A. 
Controls an
d9B. 
Other Infor
mT III 
 10. 
Directors, E
11. 
Executive 
Cm 12. 
Security O
wManageme
n13. 
Certain Rel
aDirector In
d14. 
Principal A
cT IV 
 15. 
Exhibits, Fi
nNATURES 
   mark whether th
ed filer, a non
y. See definitio
and ﬁsmaller re
pct.  
file
r        
Acc
eler   (Do n
ocompany
   mark whether t
h12b-2 of the A
c59,578 shares o
fe, outstanding 
Value of the V
os $8,520,556,33
3NCORPORAT
Eorates into a sin
gand Exchange 
n Form 10-K a
noxy Statement 
fncorporated by 
sections of t
are specified 
ithe Registrant™s 
0. No other in
foShareholders shm 10-K nor s
hhe Form 10-K a
nant™s Form 10-K
.rence Index
 formation 
lance Sheets 
Net Interest Incom
eSecurities Portfolio 
ease Portfolio 
nts of Loan and Le
aquity and Assets 
Borrowings 
s Staff Comments 
edings  
and Reserved)  
Officers of the Banc
oRegistrant™s Comm
or Matters and Issue
rnancial Data  
nt™s Discussion and 
nd Results of Oper
ae and Qualitative D
iatements and Supp
land Disagreements 
and Financial Disc
ld Procedures  
mation 
xecutive Officers a
nCompensation  
wnership of Certain 
nt and Related Stoc
kationships and Rela
tdependence 
ccounting Fees and 
nancial Statement 
SFifth Th
ire registrant is a 
-accelerated fil
ens of ﬁlarge a
cporting companyelerated file
r  ot check if a smalle
rhe registrant is 
ct).  Yes: 
 No: 
f the Bancorp™s 
as of January 
oting Stock held 3 as of June 30, 
2ED BY REFEREgle document th
eCommission (S
End annual report
sfor the 2011 A
nreference into 
his 2010 An
nin this Cross 
RForm 10-K fo
rformation contai
hall be deemed 
thall any such 
nd shall not be 
d. e and Net Interest I
nase Portfolio 
orp 
on Equity, Related 
r Purchases of Equi
tAnalysis of Financ
ations  
isclosures About 
Mlementary Data  
with Accountants 
olosure 
nd Corporate Gov
eBeneficial Owners 
kholder Matters 
ted Transactions, a
nServices 
Schedules  
ird Bancorp    129 
large accelerate
der, or a small
eccelerated filer,
yﬂ in Rule 12b-
2  r reporting
 compan
ya shell compan
y      
 Common Stoc
k31, 2011. Thby non-affiliat
e2010.  
ENCE  
e requirements 
oEC) with respe
cs to shareholder
snnual Meeting 
oPart III of th
inual Report t
Reference Inde
xr the year ende
dned in this 201
to constitute an
yinformation bdeemed ﬁfiledﬂ 
a 16-18, 130-13
335-40, 126-1
23ncome 
29-3
44-45, 79-
843-44, 
849-54147, 
923-2Non13
10Non 13
ty 131ial 15-4
763-6Market 
48-668-1
2on Non6Non ernance 13
13and 
112-115, 1
nd 1313139-1
414    
d er ﬂ 2 y)               
y k, he es of ct s.  of is o x d 0 y e as 5328018081574659828ne3604ne637
57, 656228ne66ne39393939394344130    Fifth Third Bancorp     
AVAILABILITY OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION  
Fifth Third Bancorp (the ﬁBancorpﬂ) files reports with the SEC. 
Those reports include the annual report on Form 10-K, 

quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current event reports on Form 

8-K and proxy statements, as well as any amendments to those 

reports. The public may read and copy any materials the 

Bancorp files with the SEC at the SEC™s Public Reference 

Room at 450 Fifth Street, NW, Washington, DC 20549. The 
public may obtain information on the operation of the Public 
Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The 

SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and 

information statements and other information regarding issuers 

that file electronically with the SEC at www.sec.gov. The 

Bancorp™s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on 

Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, and 

amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to 

section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act are accessible at no 

cost on the Bancorp™s web site at www.53.com on a same day 

basis after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the 

SEC.   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 PART I 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 General Information 
Fifth Third Bancorp, an Ohio corporation organized in 1975, is 
a bank holding company as defined by the Bank Holding 

Company Act of 1956, as amended (the ﬁBHCAﬂ), and is 

registered as such with the Board of Governors of the Federal 

Reserve System (the ﬁFRBﬂ). The Bancorp™s principal office is 
located in Cincinnati, Ohio. 
The Bancorp™s subsidiaries provide a wide range of 
financial products and services to the retail, commercial, 

financial, governmental, educational and medical sectors, 

including a wide variety of checking, savings and money 

market accounts, and credit products such as credit cards, 

installment loans, mortgage loans and leases. Fifth Third Bank 

has deposit insurance provided by the Federal Deposit 

Insurance Corporation (FDIC) through the Deposit Insurance 

Fund. Refer to Exhibit 21 filed as an attachment to this Annual 

Report on Form 10-K for a list of subsidiaries of the Bancorp as 

of December 31, 2010. 
The Bancorp derives the majority of its revenues from the 
U.S. Revenue from foreign countries and external customers 

domiciled in foreign countries is immaterial to the Bancorp™s 
Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 Additional information regarding the Bancorp™s 
businesses is included in Management™s Discussion and 
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
.   Competition The Bancorp competes for deposits, loans and other banking 
services in its principal geographic markets as well as in 

selected national markets as opportunities arise. In addition to 
the challenge of attracting and retaining customers for 
traditional banking services, the Bancorp™s competitors include 

securities dealers, brokers, mo
rtgage bankers, investment 
advisors and insurance companies. These competitors, with 

focused products targeted at highly profitable customer 

segments, compete across geographic boundaries and provide 

customers increasing access to meaningful alternatives to 

banking services in nearly all significant products. The 

increasingly competitive environment is a result primarily of 

changes in regulation, changes in technology, product delivery 

systems and the accelerating pace of consolidation among 

financial service providers. These competitive trends are likely 

to continue.  Acquisitions
 The Bancorp™s strategy for growth includes strengthening its 
presence in core markets, expanding into contiguous markets 
and broadening its product offerings while taking into account 

the integration and other risks of growth. The Bancorp 

evaluates strategic acquisition opportunities and conducts due 

diligence activities in connection with possible transactions. As 

a result, discussions, and in some cases, negotiations may take 

place and future acquisitions involving cash, debt or equity 

securities may occur. These typically involve the payment of a 

premium over book value and current market price, and 

therefore, some dilution of book value and net income per share 

may occur with any future transactions.
  Additional information regarding acquisitions is included 
in Note 3 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 Regulation and Supervision 
In addition to the generally applicable state and federal laws 
governing businesses and employers, the Bancorp and its 
subsidiary bank are subject to extensive regulation by federal 

and state laws and regulations applicable to financial 
       Fifth Third Bancorp     131    
institutions and their parent companies. Virtually all aspects of 
the business of the Bancorp and its subsidiary bank are subject 

to specific requirements or rest
rictions and general regulatory 
oversight. The principal objectives of state and federal banking 

laws are the maintenance of the safety and soundness of 

financial institutions and the federal deposit insurance system 

and the protection of consumers or
 classes of consumers, rather 
than the specific protection of shareholders of a bank or the 
parent company of a bank, such as the Bancorp. In addition, the 
supervision, regulation and examination of the Bancorp and its 

subsidiaries by the bank regulatory agencies is not intended for 

the protection of the Bancorp™s security holders. To the extent 

the following material describes statutory or regulatory 

provisions, it is qualified in its entirety by reference to the 

particular statute or regulation.  
The Bancorp is subject to regulation and supervision by the 
FRB and the Ohio Division of Financial Institutions (the 

ﬁDivisionﬂ). The Bancorp is required to file various reports 

with, and is subject to examination by, the FRB and the 

Division. The FRB has the authority to issue orders to bank 

holding companies to cease and desist from unsound banking 

practices and violations of conditions imposed by, or violations 

of agreements with, the FRB. The FRB is also empowered to 
assess civil money penalties against companies or individuals 
who violate the BHCA or orders or regulations there under, to 

order termination of non-banking activities of non-banking 

subsidiaries of bank holding companies, and to order 

termination of ownership and control of a non-banking 

subsidiary by a bank holding company.   Applicable state and 

federal law also grant the FRB and the Division the authority to 

impose additional requirements and restrictions on the activities 

of the Bancorp and its subsidiary bank and, in some situations, 

the imposition of such additional requirements and restrictions 

will not be publicly available information. 
The BHCA requires the prior approval of the FRB, for a 
bank holding company to acquire substantially all the assets of 

a bank or to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of 
more than 5% of any class of the voting shares of any bank, 
bank holding company or savings association, or to increase 

any such non-majority ownership or control of any bank, bank 

holding company or savings association, or to merge or 

consolidate with any bank holding company. 
The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching 
Efficiency Act of 1994 generally authorizes bank holding 

companies to acquire banks located in any state, subject to 

certain state-imposed age and deposit concentration limits, and 

also generally authorizes interstate bank holding company and 

bank mergers and to a lesser extent, interstate branching. 
The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 (ﬁGLBAﬂ) permits 
a qualifying bank holding company to become a financial 

holding company (ﬁFHCﬂ) and thereby to engage directly or 

indirectly in a broader range of activities than those  permitted 
for a bank holding company under the BHCA. Permitted 
activities for a FHC include securi
ties underwriting and dealing, 
insurance underwriting and brokerage, merchant banking and 

other activities that are declared by the FRB, in cooperation 

with the Treasury Department, to be ﬁfinancial in nature or 

incidental theretoﬂ or are declared by the FRB unilaterally to be 

ﬁcomplementaryﬂ to financial activities. In addition, a FHC is 

allowed to conduct permissible new financial activities or 

acquire permissible non-bank financial companies with after-

the-fact notice to the FRB. A bank holding company may elect 

to become a FHC if each of its subsidiary banks is well 

capitalized, is well managed and has at least a ﬁSatisfactoryﬂ 

rating under the Community Reinvestment Act (ﬁCRAﬂ). Dodd-
Frank also extended the well capitalized and well managed 
requirement to the bank holding company.  In 2000, the 

Bancorp elected and qualified for FHC status under the GLBA.  

To maintain FHC status, a holding company must continue to 

meet certain requirements. The failure to meet such 

requirements could result in restrictions on the activities of the 

FHC or loss of FHC status.  If restrictions are imposed on the 

activities of an FHC, such information may not necessarily be 
available to the public. 
Unless a bank holding company becomes a FHC under 
GLBA, the BHCA also prohibits a bank holding company from 

acquiring a direct or indirect interest in or control of more than 

5% of any class of the voting shares of a company that is not a 

bank or a bank holding company and from engaging directly or 

indirectly in activities other than those of banking, managing or 

controlling banks or furnishing services to its subsidiary banks, 

except that it may engage in and may own shares of companies 

engaged in certain activities the FRB has determined to be so 

closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as 

to be proper incident thereto. The FRB has authority to prohibit bank holding companies 
from paying dividends if such payment is deemed to be an 

unsafe or unsound practice. The FRB has indicated generally 
that it may be an unsafe or unsound practice for bank holding 
companies to pay dividends unless a bank holding company™s 

net income is sufficient to fund the dividends and the expected 

rate of earnings retention is consistent with the organization™s 

capital needs, asset quality and overall financial condition. The 

Bancorp depends in part upon dividends received from its 

subsidiary bank to fund its activities, including the payment of 

dividends and its subsidiary bank is subject to regulatory 

limitations on the amount of dividends it may declare and pay. 
Under FRB policy, a bank holding company is expected to 
act as a source of financial and managerial strength to each of 

its subsidiary banks and to commit resources to their support.  

This support may be required at times when the bank holding 

company may not have the resources to provide it.   
The Bancorp™s subsidiary bank is subject to extensive 
federal and state regulation and examination by the Division, 

the FRB, and the FDIC, which insures the deposits of the 

Bancorp™s subsidiary bank to the maximum extent permitted by 

law. The federal and state laws and regulations that are 

applicable to banks regulate, among other matters, the scope of 

their business, their investments, their reserves against deposits, 

the timing of the availability of deposited funds, the amount of 

loans to individual and related borrowers and the nature, 

amount of and collateral for certain loans, and the amount of 

interest that may be charged on loans. Various federal and state 

consumer laws and regulations also affect the operations of 

banks.  In 2006, the Federal Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 
2005 was signed into law (ﬁFDIRAﬂ). Pursuant to the FDIRA, 
the Bank Insurance Fund and Savings Association Fund were 
merged to create the Deposit Insurance Fund (the ﬁDIFﬂ). The 

FDIC was granted broader authority in adjusting deposit 

insurance premium rates and more flexibility in establishing the 

designated reserve ratio.    
As contemplated by the Dodd-Frank Act the FDIC has 
revised the framework by which insured depository institutions 

with more than $10 billion in assets (ﬁlarge IDIsﬂ) are assessed 

for purposes of payments to the DIF.  The final rule 

implementing revisions to the assessment system was released 

on February 7, 2011, and will take effect for the quarter 

beginning April 1, 2011.   
132    Fifth Third Bancorp     
Prior to the passage of the Dodd-Frank Act, a large IDI™s 
DIF premiums principally were based on the size of an IDI™s 

domestic deposit base.  Section 331(b) of Dodd-Frank changed 

the assessment base from an IDI™s domestic deposit base to its 

total assets.  In addition to potentially greatly increasing the size 
of a large IDI™s assessment base, the expansion of the 

assessment base affords the FDIC
 much greater flexibility to 
vary its assessment system based upon the different asset 
classes that large IDIs normally hold on their balance sheets.   
To implement this provision, the FDIC created an 
assessment scheme vastly different from the deposit-based 

system.  Under the new system, large IDIs will be assessed 

under a complex ﬁscorecardﬂ methodology that seeks to capture 

both the probability that an individual large IDI will fail and the 

magnitude of the impact on the DIF if such a failure occurs.   
Sections 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, restrict 
transactions between a bank and an affiliated company, 

including a parent bank holding company. The Bancorp™s 

subsidiary bank is subject to certain restrictions on loans to 

affiliated companies, on investments in the stock or securities 

thereof, on the taking of such stock or securities as collateral for 

loans to any borrower, and on the issuance of a guarantee or 

letter of credit on their behalf. Among other things, these 
restrictions limit the amount of such transactions, require 
collateral in prescribed amounts for extensions of credit, 

prohibit the purchase of low quality assets and require that the 

terms of such transactions be substantially equivalent to terms 

of similar transactions with non-affiliates. Generally, the 

Bancorp™s subsidiary bank is limited in its extension of credit to 

any affiliate to 10% of the subsidiary bank™s capital and its 

extension of credit to all affiliates to 20% of the subsidiary 

bank™s capital.  
The CRA generally requires insured depository institutions 
to identify the communities they serve and to make loans and 

investments and provide services that meet the credit needs of 

these communities.  Furthermore, the CRA requires the FRB to 

evaluate the performance of each of the subsidiary banks in 
helping to meet the credit needs of their communities. As a part 
of the CRA program, the subsidiary banks are subject to 

periodic examinations by the FRB, and must maintain 

comprehensive records of their CRA activities for this purpose.  

During these examinations, the FRB rates such institutions™ 

compliance with CRA as ﬁOutstanding,ﬂ ﬁSatisfactory,ﬂ ﬁNeeds 

to Improveﬂ or ﬁSubstantial Noncompliance.ﬂ Failure of an 

institution to receive at least a ﬁSatisfactoryﬂ rating could 

inhibit such institution or its holding company from undertaking 

certain activities, including engaging in activities permitted as a 

financial holding company under the GLBA and acquiring other 

financial institutions. The FRB must take into account the 

record of performance of banks in meeting the credit needs of 

the entire community served, including low- and moderate-

income neighborhoods. Fifth Third Bank received a 
ﬁSatisfactoryﬂ CRA rating in its 
most recent CRA examination.  
The FRB has established capital guidelines for bank 
holding companies and FHCs.  The FRB, the Division and the 

FDIC have also issued regulations establishing capital 

requirements for banks.  Failure to meet capital requirements 

could subject the Bancorp and its subsidiary bank to a variety of 

restrictions and enforcement actions.  In addition, as discussed 

previously, the Bancorp™s subsidiary bank must remain well 

capitalized and well managed for the Bancorp to retain its status 

as a FHC.  In addition, as of the Dodd-Frank Act ﬁtransfer dateﬂ 

(currently anticipated to be July 21, 2011), the Bancorp also 

must be well capitalized and well managed to retain its financial 

holding company status.   
Historically, the minimum risk-based capital requirements 
adopted by the federal banking agencies typically followed the 

Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking 

Supervision.  On December 16, 2010, the Basel Committee on 

Banking Supervision (the ﬁBasel Committeeﬂ) issued the final 

text of a comprehensive update of the 2004 Basel II Accord 

(ﬁBasel IIIﬂ).  On January 13, 
2011, the Basel Committee issued 
an Annex to Basel III containing the final elements of reform to 
the definition of regulatory capital.  Basel III aims to reform the 
international financial system by instituting significantly higher 

global capital requirements and new liquidity and leverage 

standards.  Basel III is not itself binding, but rather must be 

adopted into United States law or regulation before affecting 

banks supervised in the United States.  Moreover, if adopted in 

the United States Ba
sil III likely would not become effective 
until 2013, and its provision would be subject to a multi-year 

transition period. 
Basel III significantly revises the definitions of regulatory 
capital, establishing separate capital requirements for common 

equity Tier 1 Capital (a new regulatory metric), Tier 1 Capital, 

consisting of the sum of Tier 1 Common Equity and Additional 

Tier 1 Capital, and Total Capital, consisting of the sum of Tier 

1 Common Equity, Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 Capital. Basel 
III, if implemented, ultimately 
would require banks to maintain 
a minimum Tier 1 Common Equity Capital ratio of 4.5%, a 

minimum Tier 1 Capital ratio of 6%, and a minimum Total 

Capital ratio of 8%.  Among other significant reforms to the 

definition of regulatory capital, Basel III disqualifies certain 

structured capital instruments, such as trust preferred securities, 

from Tier 1 capital status.  (Dodd-Frank also disqualifies trust-

preferred and similar instruments over a three year period 

beginning in 2013.) In addition to higher minimum capital 

standards, Basel III also institu
tes new capital conservation and 
countercyclical buffers that could, if fully implemented, create 

significant incentive for banks to maintain up to an additional 

5% above the minimum capital requirements. 
Basel III also introduces two measures of liquidity based 
on risk exposure, one based on a 30-day time horizon under an 
acute liquidity stress scenario and one designed to promote 

more medium and long-term funding of the assets and activities 

of banks over a one-year time horizon.  
 The FRB, FDIC and other bank regulatory agencies have 
adopted final guidelines (the ﬁGuidelines) for safeguarding 

confidential, personal customer information. The Guidelines 

require each financial institution, under the supervision and 

ongoing oversight of its Board of Directors or an appropriate 

committee thereof, to create, implement and maintain a 

comprehensive written information security program designed 

to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer 

information, protect against any anticipated threats or hazards to 

the security or integrity of such information and protect against 

unauthorized access to or use of such information that could 
result in substantial harm or inconvenience to any customer. 
The Bancorp has adopted a customer information security 

program that has been approved by the Bancorp™s Board of 

Directors (the ﬁBoard).  
The GLBA requires financial institutions to implement 
policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of nonpublic 

personal information about consumers to non-affiliated third 

parties. In general, the statute requires explanations to 

consumers on policies and procedures regarding the disclosure 

of such nonpublic personal information, and, except as 

otherwise required by law, prohibits disclosing such 

information except as provided in the subsidiary bank™s policies 

and procedures. The Bancorp™s subsidiary bank has 
       Fifth Third Bancorp     133    
implemented a privacy policy. The Uniting and Strengthening 
America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept 

and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the ﬁPatriot Actﬂ), 

designed to deny terrorists and others the ability to obtain 

access to the United States financial system, has significant 

implications for depository institutions, brokers, dealers and 

other businesses involved in the transfer of money. The Patriot 

Act, as implemented by various federal regulatory agencies, 
requires financial institutions, including the Bancorp and its 
subsidiaries, to implement new policies and procedures or 

amend existing policies and proce
dures with respect to, among 
other matters, anti-money laundering, compliance, suspicious 

activity and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on 

customers. The Patriot Act and its underlying regulations also 

permit information sharing for counter-terrorist purposes 

between federal law enforcement agencies and financial 

institutions, as well as among fina
ncial institutions, subject to 
certain conditions, and require the FRB (and other federal 

banking agencies) to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant 

in combating money laundering activities when considering 

applications filed under Section 3 of the BHCA or the Bank 

Merger Act. The Bancorp™s Board has approved policies and 

procedures that are believed to be compliant with the Patriot 
Act.  Certain mutual fund and unit investment trust custody and 
administrative clients are regulated as ﬁinvestment companiesﬂ 

as that term is defined under the Investment Company Act of 

1940, as amended (the ﬁICA), and are subject to various 

examination and reporting requirements.  The provisions of the 

ICA and the regulations promulgated there under prescribe the 

type of institution that may act as a custodian of investment 

company assets, as well as the manner in which a custodian 

administers the assets in its custody. As a custodian for a 

number of investment company clients, these regulations 

require, among other things, that certain minimum aggregate 

capital, surplus and undivided profit levels are maintained by 

the Bancorp™s subsidiary bank, and also require the Bancorp to 
manage and retain certain information about investment 
company clients pursuant to specific ICA requirements that are 

in addition to the Bancorp™s management and retention 

responsibilities under other applicable federal and state laws. 

Additionally, our arrangements with clearing agencies or other 

securities depositories must meet ICA requirements for 

segregation of assets, identification of assets and client 

approval. New legislation or regulatory requirements could 

have a significant impact on the information reporting 

requirements applicable to the Bancorp and may in the short 

term adversely affect the Bancorp™s ability to service 

investment company clients at a reasonable cost.  
The GLBA amended the federal securities laws to 
eliminate the blanket exceptions that banks traditionally have 

had from the definition of ﬁbrokerﬂ and ﬁdealer.ﬂ The GLBA 
also required that there be certain transactional activities that 
would not be ﬁbrokerageﬂ activities, which banks could effect 

without having to register as a broker. In September 2007, the 

FRB and SEC approved Regulation R to govern bank securities 

activities. Various exemptions permit banks to conduct 

activities that would otherwise constitute brokerage activities 

under the securities laws. Those exemptions include conducting 

brokerage activities related to trust, fiduciary and similar 

services, certain services and also conducting a de minimis 

number of riskless principal transactions, certain asset-backed 

transactions and certain securi
ties lending transactions. The 
Bancorp only conducts non-exempt brokerage activities through 

its affiliated registered broker-dealer. 
Emergency Economic Stabilization 
 On October 3, 2008, in response to the stresses experienced in 
the financial markets, the Emergency Economic Stabilization 

Act (ﬁEESAﬂ) was enacted. EESA authorizes the Secretary of 

the Treasury to purchase up to $700 billion in troubled assets 

from financial institutions under the Troubled Asset Relief 

Program or TARP. Troubled assets include residential or 

commercial mortgages and related instruments originated prior 
to March 14, 2008 and any other financial instrument that the 
Secretary determines, after consultation with the Chairman of 

the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the 

purchase of which is necessary to promote financial stability. 
  
Capital Purchase Program 

Pursuant to its authority under EESA, Treasury created the 

TARP Capital Purchase Program (ﬁCPPﬂ) under which the 

Treasury Department was authorized to invest up to $250 

billion in senior preferred stock of U.S. banks and savings 

associations or their holding companies. Qualifying financial 

institutions could issue senior preferred stock with a value equal 

to not less than 1% of risk-weighted assets and not more than 

the lesser of $25 billion or 3% of risk-weighted assets.   
In connection with the issuance of the senior preferred, 
participating institutions were required to issue to Treasury 
immediately exercisable 10-year warrants to purchase common 

stock with an aggregate market price equal to 15% of the 

amount of senior preferred.  
On December 31, 2008, the Bancorp entered into a Letter 
Agreement (including the Securities Purchase AgreementŠ

Standard Terms incorporated by reference therein, the 

ﬁPurchase Agreement) with Treasury pursuant to which the 

Company issued and sold to Treasury for an aggregate purchase 

price of approximately $3.4 billion in cash: (i) 136,320 shares 

of the Company™s Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred 

Stock, Series F, having a liqui
dation preference of $25,000 per 
share (the ﬁSeries F Preferred Stock), and (ii) a ten-year warrant 

to purchase up to 43,617,747 shares of the Company™s common 
stock, no par value per share, at an initial exercise price of 
$11.72 per share.   In the Purchase Agreement, the Bancorp agreed that, until 
such time as Treasury ceases to own any debt or equity 

securities of the Bancorp acquired pursuant to the Purchase 

Agreement, the Bancorp would take all necessary action to 

ensure that its benefit plans with respect to its senior executive 

officers comply with Section 111(b) of EESA as implemented 

by any guidance or regulation under the EESA that had been 

issued and was in effect as of the date of issuance of the Series 

F Preferred Stock and the Warrant, and agreed to not adopt any 

benefit plans with respect to, or which covers, its senior 

executive officers that do not comply with the EESA.  
On February 2, 2011 the Bancorp repurchased the Series F 
Preferred Stock issued to the Treasury pursuant to TARP.  The 
Bancorp notified the U.S. Treasury on February 17, 2011, of its 
intention to negotiate for the purchase of the warrants issued to 

the U.S. Treasury.   Supervisory Capital Assessment Program 
On February 10, 2009, the U.S. Treasury announced a new 

financial stability plan (the ﬁFinancial Stability Planﬂ), which 

built upon existing programs and earmarked the second $350 

billion of unused funds originally authorized under EESA. 

Pursuant to the CAP, the Bancorp, along with the other 

domestic bank holding companies with assets of more than 

$100 billion at December 31, 2008, was subject to a forward-

looking stress test called the Supervisory Capital Assessment 
134    Fifth Third Bancorp     
Program (the ﬁSCAPﬂ). The SCAP exam evaluated the 
projected level and quality of each institution™s capital during 

specified economic scenarios through the end of 2010, which 

included a baseline scenario, reflecting a consensus estimate of 

private-sector forecasters, and a more adverse scenario, 

reflecting an economic situation more severe than is generally 

anticipated.   
On May 7, 2009, the Bancorp announced its SCAP results. 
The results of the SCAP assessment indicated that the 
Bancorp™s Tier 1 Capital and Total Risk-Based Capital ratios 

were expected to continue to exceed the levels required to 

maintain a ﬁwell-capitalizedﬂ status under the more adverse 

scenario as defined by the assessment. As a result, the Bancorp 

was not required to raise additional overall capital. The SCAP 

results did indicate that the Bancorp™s Tier 1 common equity 

would be required to be augmented to maintain a capital buffer 

above the newly required four percent threshold of the Tier 1 

common equity ratio under the more adverse scenario of the 

assessment. The total amount required, prior to considering 

activities by the Bancorp since the end of the fourth quarter of 

2008, was $2.6 billion. After considering such activities, 

including the sale of the Bancorp™s processing business, the 

indicated additional net Tier 1 common equity required was 
$1.1 billion. During the second quarter of 2009, in order to raise 
additional capital to augment Tier 1 common equity, the 

Bancorp completed a $1 billion common stock offering and an 

exchange of a portion of its Series G preferred stock. As a result 

of the common stock offering, the exchange of the preferred 

stock, and the sale of its processing business, the Bancorp 

exceeded its Tier 1 common equity requirement under the 

SCAP assessment by approximately $650 million. Additionally, 

in July of 2009, the Bancorp sold its Visa, Inc. Class B common 

shares resulting in an additional net $206 million benefit to 

equity. 
Regulatory Reform  
On July 21, 2010 President Obama signed into law the Dodd-
Frank Act. The Dodd-Frank Act is aimed, in part, at 

accountability and transparency in the financial system and 

includes a numerous provisions that apply to and/or could 

impact the Bancorp and its subsidiary bank.  Some of the 

provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act are set forth below. 

 
Financial Stability Oversight Council 

The Dodd-Frank Act creates the Financial Stability Oversight 

Council, which is chaired by the Secretary of the Treasury and 

composed of expertise from various financial services 

regulators. The Financial Stability Oversight Council has 

responsibility for identifying risks and responding to emerging 

threats to financial stability.
  Executive Compensation 
The Dodd-Frank Act provides for a say on pay for shareholders 

of all public companies. Under the Dodd-Frank Act, each 

company must give its shareholders the opportunity to vote on 

the compensation of its executives at least once every three 

years. The Dodd-Frank Act also adds disclosure and voting 

requirements for golden parachute compensation that is payable 

to named executive officers in connection with sale 

transactions.   
The Dodd-Frank Act requires the SEC to issue rules 
directing the stock exchanges to prohibit listing classes of 

equity securities if a company™s compensation committee 

members are not independent.  The Dodd-Frank Act also 

provides that a company™s compensation committee may only 
select a compensation consultant, legal counsel or other advisor 
after taking into consideration factors to be identified by the 
SEC that affect the independence of a compensation consultant, 

legal counsel or other advisor. 
The SEC is required under the Dodd-Frank Act to issue 
rules obligating companies to disclose in proxy materials for 

annual meetings of shareholders information that shows the 

relationship between executive compensation actually paid to 

their named executive officers and their financial performance, 
taking into account any change in the value of the shares of a 
company™s stock and dividends or distributions.   
The Dodd-Frank Act provides that the SEC must issue 
rules directing the stock exchanges to prohibit listing any 

security of a company unless the company develops and 

implements a policy providing for disclosure of the policy of 

the company on incentive-based compensation that is based on 

financial information required to be reported under the 

securities laws and that, in the event the company is required to 

prepare an accounting restatement due to the material 

noncompliance of the company with any financial reporting 

requirement under the securities laws, the company will recover 

from any current or former executive officer of the company 

who received incentive-based compensation during the three-

years period preceding the date on which the company is 
required to prepare the restatement based on the erroneous data, 
any exceptional compensation above what would have been 

paid under the restatement.   
The Dodd-Frank Act requires the SEC, by rule, to require 
that each company disclose in the proxy materials for its annual 

meetings whether an employee or board member is permitted to 

purchase financial instruments designed to hedge or offset 

decreases in the market value of equity securities granted as 

compensation or otherwise held by the employee or board 

member. 
 Corporate Governance 

The Dodd-Frank Act clarifies that the SEC may, but is not 

required to promulgate rules that would require that a 
company™s proxy materials include a nominee for the board of 
directors submitted by a shareholder. 
The Dodd-Frank Act requires stock exchanges to have 
rules prohibiting their members from voting securities that they 

do not beneficially own (unless they have received voting 

instructions from the beneficial
 owner) with respect to the 
election of a member of the board of directors (other than an 

uncontested election of directors of an investment company 

registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940), 

executive compensation or any other significant matter, as 

determined by the SEC by rule. 
Additionally, the Dodd-Frank Act includes a number of 
provisions that are targeted at improving the reliability of credit 

ratings.  The SEC has been charged with adopting various rules 

in this regard.  Consumer Issues 

The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new Bureau of Consumer 

Financial Protection, which will be housed within the Federal 

Reserve System but which will be independent.  The Bureau of 

Consumer Financial Protection will have the authority to 

implement regulations pursuant to numerous consumer 

protection laws and will have supervisory authority, including 

the power to conduct examination and take enforcement 

actions, with respect to depository institutions with more than 

$10 billion in consolidated assets.  The Bureau of Consumer 

Financial Protection will also have new authority, among other 
       Fifth Third Bancorp     135    
things, to declare acts ﬁunfair, deceptive or abusiveﬂ and to 
require certain consumer disclosures. 

 
Debit Card Interchange Fees 

The Dodd-Frank Act provides for a set of new rules requiring 

that interchange transaction fees for electric debit transactions 

be ﬁreasonableﬂ and proportional to certain costs associated 

with processing the transactions.  The FRB is given authority to 
establish standards for assessing whether interchange fees are 
reasonable and proportional. 

 
FDIC Matters  

The Dodd-Frank Act creates an orderly liquidation process that 

the FDIC can employ for failing financial companies that are 

not insured depository institutions.  The Dodd-Frank Act gives 

the FDIC new authority to create a widely available emergency 

financial stabilization program to guarantee the obligations of 

solvent depository institutions and their holding companies and 

affiliates during times of severe economic stress.  Additionally 

Dodd-Frank also codifies many of the temporary changes that 

had already been implemented, such as permanently increasing 

the amount of deposit insurance to $250,000. 

 Volker Rule 
In the ﬁVolker Rule,ﬂ the Dodd-Frank Act sets forth new 

restrictions on banking organizations™ ability to engage in 

proprietary trading and sponsorship of or investment in private 

equity and hedge funds. The Volker Rule also generally 

prohibits any banking entity from sponsoring or acquiring any 

ownership interest in a private equity or hedge fund.  The 

Volker Rule, however, contains a number of exceptions.  The 

Volker Rule permits transactions 
in the securities of the U.S. 
government and its agencies, certain government-sponsored 

enterprises and states and their political subdivisions, as well as 

certain investments in small business investment companies.  

Transactions on behalf of customers and in connection with 

certain underwriting and market making activities, as well as 
risk-mitigating hedging activities and certain foreign banking 
activities are also permitted.  Dodd-Frank also defines certain 

parameters with respect to a permissible 
de minimis
 investment 
in a private equity or hedge fund that the banking entity 

organizes and offers.  In addition to the general prohibition on 

sponsorship and investment, the Volker Rule contains a second 

set of requirements applicable to any private equity or hedge 

fund that is sponsored by the banking entity or for which it 

serves as investment manager or investment advisor. 

 
Derivatives 

The Dodd-Frank Act sets forth a new regulatory system for the 

U.S. market for swaps and other over-the-counter derivatives.  

Under this new regime, all derivatives transactions and all 

entities that enter into them could be subject to potential 
regulations, and the goal of the regulatory framework is to 
promote the stability of the entire financial system and further 

transparency and competition in the derivatives market. 

 
Interstate Bank Branching 

The Dodd-Frank Act includes provisions permitting national 

and insured state banks to engage in 
de novo
 interstate 
branching if, under the laws of the state where the new branch 

is to be established, as state bank chartered in that state would 

be permitted to establish a branch. 

 
 
 Capital 
The Dodd-Frank Act instructs the FRB to seek to make capital 

requirements applicable to bank holding companies 

countercyclical, with a higher level required in times of 

economic expansion and lower level needed in times of 

economic contraction.   

 
Systemically Significant Companies 
The Dodd-Frank Act creates a new regulatory regime for 
entities that are deemed to be ﬁsystemically significant financial 

companies.ﬂ The Dodd-Frank Act sets a $50 billion 

consolidated asset floor for a bank holding company to be 

subject to the heightened oversight and regulation, although the 

FRB can adjust those amounts upward for some of the 

heightened standards under certain circumstances.  Dodd-Frank 

establishes a broad framework for identifying, applying 

heightened supervision and regulation to, and (as necessary) 

limiting the size and activities of systemically significant 

financial companies.  Under the Dodd-Frank Act, a new regime 

for the orderly liquidation of financial companies whose failure 

would pose systemic risk is also created. 

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 136    Fifth Third Bancorp     
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 The Bancorp™s executive offices and the main office of Fifth 
Third Bank are located on Fountain Square Plaza in downtown 

Cincinnati, Ohio in a 32-story office tower, a five-story office 

building with an attached parking garage and a separate ten-

story office building known as the Fifth Third Center, the 

William S. Rowe Building and the 530 Building, respectively. 

The Bancorp™s main operations center is located in Cincinnati, 
Ohio, in a three-story building with an attached parking garage 
known as the Madisonville Operations Center. The Bank owns 

100% of these buildings.  
At December 31, 2010, the Bancorp, through its banking 
and non-banking subsidiaries, operated 1,312 banking centers, 

of which 904 were owned, 277 were leased and 131 for which 

the buildings are owned but the land is leased. The banking 

centers are located in the states of Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, 

Michigan, Illinois, Florida, Tennessee, North Carolina, West 

Virginia, Pennsylvania, Missouri,
 and Georgia. The Bancorp™s 
significant owned properties are owned free from mortgages 

and major encumbrances.  
 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE BANCORP
 Officers are appointed annually by the Board of Directors at the 
meeting of Directors immediately following the Annual 
Meeting of Shareholders. The names, ages and positions of the 
Executive Officers of the Bancorp as of February 28, 2011 are 

listed below along with their business experience during the 

past 5 years:  
 Kevin T. Kabat
, 54. President and Chief Executive Officer of 
the Bancorp since June 2006 and April 2007, respectively. 
Previously, Mr. Kabat was Chairman from June 2008 to June 

2010. Previously, Mr. Kabat was Executive Vice President of 

the Bancorp since December 2003.  
 Greg D. Carmichael
, 49. Executive Vice President and Chief 
Operating Officer of the Bancorp since June 2006. Prior to that, 

Mr. Carmichael was the Executive Vice President and Chief 
Information Officer of the Bancorp since June 2003 
 Mark D. Hazel
, 45. Senior Vice President and Controller of the 
Bancorp since February 2010. Prior to that, Mr. Hazel was the 

Assistant Controller of the Bancorp since 2006 and was the 

Controller of Nonbank entities since 2003. 
 James R. Hubbard
, 52. Senior Vice President and Chief Legal 
Officer of the Bancorp since February 2010. Prior to that, Mr. 

Hubbard was the Senior Vice President and Director of Legal 

Services since June 2001. 
 Gregory L. Kosch
, 51. Executive Vice President of the 
Bancorp since June 2005.  Previously, Mr. Kosch was Senior 

Vice President and head of the Bancorp™s Commercial Division 

in the Chicago affiliate since June 2002. 
 Bruce K. Lee
, 50. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp 
since June 2005. Previously, Mr. Lee was President and CEO of 
Fifth Third Bank (Northwestern Ohio) since July 2002. 
 Daniel T. Poston
, 52. Executive Vice President of the Bancorp 
since June 2003, and Chief Financial Officer of the Bancorp 

since September 2009. Previously, Mr. Poston was the 

Controller of the Bancorp from July 2007 to May 2008 and 

from November 2008 to September 2009. Previously, Mr. 

Poston was the Chief Financial Officer of the Bancorp from 

May 2008 to November 2008. Formerly, Mr. Poston was the 
Auditor of the Bancorp since October 2001 and was Senior 
Vice President of the Bancorp and Fifth Third Bank since 

January 2002. 
  Paul L. Reynolds
, 49. Executive Vice President, Secretary and 
Chief Administrative Officer of the Bancorp since September 

2009.  Previously, Mr. Reynolds was Executive Vice President, 

Secretary and General Counsel since 2002.  Prior to that he was 

Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Assistant 

Secretary since 1999. 
 Joseph R. Robinson
, 43. Executive Vice President and Chief 
Information Officer and Director of Information Technology 

and Operations of the Bancorp since September 2009. 

Previously, Mr. Robinson was Executive Vice President and 

Chief Information Officer of the Bancorp since April 2008. 

Prior to that, he was Senior Vice President and Director of 

Central Operations since November 2006 and Senior Vice 

President of IT Enterprise Solutions since March 2004.  
 Mahesh Sankaran, 
48.  Senior Vice President and Treasurer of 
the Bancorp since June 2006.  Previously, Mr. Sankaran was 

Treasurer for Huntington Bancshares Incorporated since 

February 2005. 
  Robert A. Sullivan
, 55. Senior Executive Vice President of the 
Bancorp since December 2002.  
 Teresa J. Tanner
, 42. Executive Vice President and Chief 
Human Resources Officer of the Bancorp since February 2010. 

Previously, Ms. Tanner was Senior Vice President and Director 
of Enterprise Learning since September 2008. Prior to that, she 
was Human Resources Senior Vice President and Senior 

Business Partner for the Information Technology and Central 

Operations divisions since July 2006. Previously, she was Vice 

President and Senior Business Partner for Operations since 

September 2004. 
 Mary E. Tuuk
, 46. Executive Vice President and Chief Risk 
Officer of the Bancorp since June 2007. Previously, Ms. Tuuk 
was Senior Vice President of Fifth Third Bancorp since 2003.  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
        Fifth Third Bancorp     137    
PART II  ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT™S COMMON 

EQUITY,  RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND 

ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES
 The Bancorp™s common stock is traded in the over-the-counter 
market and is listed under the symbol ﬁFITBﬂ on the 

NASDAQ® Global Select Market System.  

 High and Low Stock Prices and Dividends Paid Per Share 
     Dividends Paid 
2010   High   Low      Per Share 
Fourth Quarter  $15.11   $11.71  $0.01 
Third Quarter  $13.81   $10.64  $0.01 

Second Quarter  $15.95   $12.00  $0.01 
First Quarter  $14.05   $9.81  $0.01 
      Dividends Paid 
2009   High   Low      Per Share 
Fourth Quarter  $10.92   $8.76  $0.01 
Third Quarter  $11.20   $6.33  $0.01 
Second Quarter  $9.15   $2.50  $0.01 

First Quarter  $8.65   $1.01  $0.01 
 See a discussion of dividend limitations that the subsidiaries can 

pay to the Bancorp discussed in Note 4 of the Notes to the 

Consolidated Financial Statements. Additionally, as of 

December 31, 2010, the Bancorp had 57,161 shareholders of 
record.   Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
  
 
 
 
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   Period 
Shares Purchased 
(a)
 Average Price Paid Per Share 
Shares Purchased 
as Part of 
Publicly Announced Plans or Programs 
Maximum 
Shares that May Be 
Purchased 
Under the 
Plans or Programs 
October 2010 - $ - - 19,201,518
November 2010 - - - 19,201,518
December 2010 - - - 19,201,518
Total - $ - - 19,201,518
(a)
 The Bancorp repurchased 6,337, 10,690, and 8,191 shares during 
October, November and December 
of 2010 in connection with various 
employee compensation plans of the Bancorp.  These purchases are not 

included against the maximum number of shares that may yet be 
purchased under the Board of Directors authorization. 
      13
8 The frefereexten Total The g2001     
 8    Fifth Third B
afollowing per
fence into any 
t the Bancorp 
sl Return Anal
ygraphs below s
uthrough 2010, 
rancorp     
formance gra
pother Compa
nspecifically in
cysis 
ummarize the 
crespectively, c
ophs do not co
nny filing under 
corporates the 
cumulative ret
uompared to the 
SFIFTH THInstitute solici
tthe Securitie
sperformance 
gurn experience
dS&P 500 Stock IRD BANC
Oting material 
as Act of 1933 
ographs by refe
rd by 
the Banco
rand the S&P 
BORP VS. MA  and should n
oor the Securit
irence therein.
rp's shareholde
rBanks indices.  
ARKET IND
Iot be deemed 
ies Exchange 
Ars over the ye
aICES 
filed or inco
rAct of 1934, e
xars 2006 throu
grporated by 
xcept to the 
gh 2010, and 
      Fifth Third Bancorp     139    
PART III  ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND 

CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
 The information required by this item relating to the Executive 
Officers of the Registrant is included in PART I under 

ﬁEXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE BANCORP.ﬂ  
The information required by this item concerning Directors 
and the nomination process is incorporated herein by reference 
under the caption ﬁELECTION OF DIRECTORSﬂ of the 
Bancorp™s Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of 

Shareholders.  
The information required by this item concerning the Audit 
Committee and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is 

incorporated herein by reference under the captions 

ﬁCORPORATE GOVERNANCEﬂ and ﬁBOARD OF 

DIRECTORS, ITS COMMITTEES, MEETINGS AND 

FUNCTIONSﬂ of the Bancorp™s Proxy Statement for the 2011 

Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  
The information required by this item concerning Section 
16 (a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance is 

incorporated herein by reference under the caption ﬁSECTION 

16 (a) BENEFICIAL OWNERSHIP REPORTING 

COMPLIANCEﬂ of the Bancorp™s Proxy Statement for the 2011 
Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  
 ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
 The information required by this item is incorporated herein by 
reference under the captions ﬁCOMPENSATION DISCUSSION 

AND ANALYSIS,ﬂ ﬁCOMPENSATION OF NAMED 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS,ﬂ 
ﬁCOMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORTﬂ and 

ﬁCOMPENSATION COMMITTEE INTERLOCKS AND 

INSIDER PARTICIPATIONﬂ of th
e Bancorp™s Proxy Statement 
for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders. 
 ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN 

BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND 

RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
 Security ownership information of certain beneficial owners and 
management is incorporated herein by reference under the 

captions ﬁCERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS,ﬂ ﬁELECTION 

OF DIRECTORS,ﬂ  ﬁCOMPENSATION DISCUSSION AND 

ANALYSISﬂ and ﬁCOMPENSATION OF NAMED 

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND DIRECTORSﬂ of the Bancorp™s 

Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  
The information required by this item concerning Equity 
Compensation Plan information is included in Note 25 of the 

Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
 ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED 

TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE
 The information required by this item is incorporated herein by 
reference under the captions ﬁCERTAIN TRANSACTIONSﬂ, 

ﬁELECTION OF DIRECTORSﬂ, ﬁCORPORATE 

GOVERNANCEﬂ and ﬁBOARD 
OF DIRECTORS, ITS 
COMMITTEES, MEETINGS AND FUNCTIONSﬂ of the 
Bancorp™s Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of 

Shareholders.
   ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND 

SERVICES 
The information required by this item is incorporated herein by 
reference under the caption ﬁPRINCIPAL INDEPENDENT 

REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM FEESﬂ of the 

Bancorp™s Proxy Statement for the 2011 Annual Meeting of 

Shareholders.
  PART IV ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT 

SCHEDULES 
Financial Statements Filed Pages
Report of Independent Register
ed Public Accounting Firm 67
Fifth Third Bancorp and Subsidia
ries Consolidated Financial 
Statements 68-71
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 72-128
 The schedules for the Bancorp and its subsidiaries are omitted 
because of the absence of conditions under which they are 

required, or because the information is set forth in the 

Consolidated Financial Statements or the notes thereto.  
 The following lists the Exhibits 
to the Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
2.1 
 Master Investment Agreement (e
xcluding exhibits and schedules) 
dated as of March 27, 2009 and amended as of June 30, 2009, 
among Fifth Third Bank, Fifth Th
ird Financial Corporation, 
Advent-Kong Blocker Corp., FTPS Ho
lding, LLC and Fifth Third 
Processing Solutions, LLC. Incorporated by reference to the 
Registrant™s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the 

Commission on July 2, 2009. 
3.1 
 Second Amended Articles of Incorpor
ation of Fifth Third Bancorp, 
as amended. Incorporated by refe
rence to the Registrant™s Annual 
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008.   
3.2 
 Code of Regulations of Fifth 
Third Bancorp, as amended. 
Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Current Report on 
Form 8-K filed with the Commission on June 21, 2010.     
4.1 
 Junior Subordinated Indenture, da
ted as of March 20, 1997 between 
Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmingt
on Trust Company, as Debenture 
Trustee.  Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Current Report 

on Form 8-K filed with the Secu
rities and Exchange Commission 
on March 26, 1997. 
4.2 
 Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, dated as of March 20, 
1997 of Fifth Third Capital Trust II,
 among Fifth Third Bancorp, as 
Depositor, Wilmington Trust Company, as Property Trustee, and 
the Administrative Trustees named therein.  Incorporated by 

reference to Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Co
mmission on March 26, 1997. 
4.3 
 Guarantee Agreement, dated as of March 20, 1997 between Fifth 
Third Bancorp, as Guarantor, and Wilmington Trust Company, as 
Guarantee Trustee.  Incorporated
 by reference to Registrant™s 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed wi
th the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on March 26, 1997. 
4.4 
 Agreement as to Expense and Liabilities, dated as of March 20, 
1997 between Fifth Third Bancorp, as the holder of the Common 

Securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust I and Fifth Third Capital 
Trust II.  Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Current Report 
on Form 8-K filed with the Secu
rities and Exchange Commission 
on March 26, 1997. 
4.5 
 Indenture, dated as of May 23,
 2003, between Fifth Third Bancorp 
and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee.  Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Co
mmission on May 22, 2003.  
4.6 
 Global security representing Fifth Third Bancorp™s $500,000,000 
4.50% Subordinated Notes due 2018.  Incorporated by reference to 

Registrant™s Current Report on Form
 8-K filed with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission on May 22, 2003.  
4.7 
 First Supplemental Indenture, 
dated as of December 20, 2006, 
between Fifth Third Bancorp and 
Wilmington Trust Company, as 
Trustee. Incorporated by referen
ce to Registrant's Annual Report on 
Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006.  
4.8 
 Global security representing Fifth Third Bancorp™s $500,000,000 
5.45% Subordinated Notes due 2017.  Incorporated by reference to 
Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year 

ended December 31, 2006. 
4.9 
 Global security representing Fifth Third Bancorp™s $250,000,000 
Floating Rate Subordinated Note
s due 2016.  Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant's Annual 
Report on Form 10-K filed for the 
fiscal year ended December 31, 2006. 
4.10 
 First Supplemental Indenture da
ted as of March 30, 2007 between 
Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington 
Trust Company, as trustee, to 
the Junior Subordinated Indent
ure dated as of May 20, 1997 
between Fifth Third and the Trustee.
 Incorporated by reference to 
Registrant™s Current Report on Form
 8-K filed with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission on March 30, 2007. 
             140    Fifth Third Bancorp     
4.11 
 Certificate Representing $500,000,000.00 of 6.50% Junior 
Subordinated Notes of Fifth Thir
d Bancorp. Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant's Quarte
rly Report on Form 10-Q filed for 
the quarter ended March 31, 2007. 
4.12 
 Certificate Representing $250,010,000.00 of 6.50% Junior 
Subordinated Notes of Fifth Thir
d Bancorp. Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant's Quarte
rly Report on Form 10-Q filed for 
the quarter ended March 31, 2007. 
4.13 
 Amended and Restated 
Declaration of Trust dated as of March 30, 
2007 of Fifth Third Capital Trust IV
 among Fifth Third Bancorp, as 
Sponsor, Wilmington Trust Compa
ny, as Property Trustee and 
Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees named therein. 
Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 

10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. 
4.14 
 Certificate Representing 500,000 
6.50% Trust Preferred Securities 
of Fifth Third Capital Trust IV 
(liquidation amount $1,000 per Trust 
Preferred Security). Incorporated by reference to Registrant's 

Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 
31, 2007. 
4.15 
 Certificate Representing 250,000 
6.50% Trust Preferred Securities 
of Fifth Third Capital Trust IV 
(liquidation amount $1,000 per Trust 
Preferred Security). Incorporated by reference to Registrant's 
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 

31, 2007. 
4.16 
 Certificate Representing 10 6.50% Common Securities of Fifth 
Third Capital Trust IV (liquidation amount $1,000 per Common 

Security). Incorporated by refe
rence to Registrant's Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. 
4.17 
 Guarantee Agreement, dated as of March 30, 2007 between Fifth 
Third Bancorp, as Guarantor, and Wilmington Trust Company, as 
Guarantee Trustee. Incorporated 
by reference to Registrant's 
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 

31, 2007. 
4.18 
 Agreement as to Expense and Liabilities, dated as of March 30, 
2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp a
nd Fifth Third Capital Trust IV. 
Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q filed for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. 
4.19 
 Replacement Capital Covenant of 
Fifth Third Bancorp dated as of 
March 30, 2007. Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on March 30, 2007. 
4.20 
 Amendment No. 1 to Replacement 
Capital Covenant, dated as of 
November 24, 2010 amending the Re
placement Capital Covenant 
dated as of March 30, 2007. Incorporated by reference to 
Registrant™s Current Report on Form
 8-K filed with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission on 
November 26, 2010. Second 
Supplemental Indenture dated as 
of August 8, 2007 between Fifth 
Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee, to the 

Junior Subordinated Indenture da
ted as of May 20, 1997 between 
Fifth Third and the Trustee. Incorporated by reference to 
Registrant™s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the 

Securities and Exchange Co
mmission on August 8, 2007. 
4.21 
 Certificate Representing $500,010,000 of 7.25% Junior 
Subordinated Notes of Fifth Thir
d Bancorp. Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant™s Regist
ration Statement on Form 8-A filed 
with the Securities and Excha
nge Commission on August 8, 2007. 
4.22 
 Amended and Restated 
Declaration of Trust dated as of August 8, 
2007 of Fifth Third Capital Trust 
V among Fifth Third Bancorp, as 
Sponsor, Wilmington Trust Compa
ny, as Property Trustee and 
Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees named therein. 

Incorporated by reference to Regi
strant™s Registration Statement on 
Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on 
August 8, 2007. 
4.23 
 Certificate Representing 20,000,000 7.25% Trust Preferred 
Securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust V (liquidation amount $25 
per Trust Preferred Security). Incorporated by reference to 

Registrant™s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the 

Securities and Exchange Co
mmission on August 8, 2007. 
4.24 
 Certificate Representing 400 7.25
% Trust Preferred Securities of 
Fifth Third Capital Trust V (
liquidation amount $25 per Trust 
Preferred Security). Incorporated by reference to Registrant's 
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended June 30, 
2007. 
4.25 
 Guarantee Agreement, dated as of August 8, 2007 between Fifth 
Third Bancorp, as Guarantor, and Wilmington Trust Company, as 
Guarantee Trustee. Incorporated 
by reference to Registrant™s 
Registration Statement on Form 8-
A filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on August 8, 2007. 
4.26 
 Agreement as to Expense and Liabilities, dated as of August 8, 
2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp a
nd Fifth Third Capital Trust V. 
Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 
10-Q filed for the quarter ended June 30, 2007. 
4.27 
 Replacement Capital Covenant of 
Fifth Third Bancorp dated as of 
August 8, 2007. Incorporated by re
ference to Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on August 8, 2007. 
4.28 
 Amendment No. 1 to Replacement 
Capital Covenant, dated as of 
November 24, 2010 amending the Re
placement Capital Covenant 
dated as of August 8, 2007. Incorporated by reference to 
Registrant™s Current Report on Form
 8-K filed with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission on November 26, 2010. Third 

Supplemental Indenture dated as 
of October 30, 2007 between Fifth 
Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee, to the 
Junior Subordinated Indenture da
ted as of May 20, 1997 between 
Fifth Third and the trustee. Incorporated by reference to 

Registrant™s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Comm
ission on October 31, 2007. 
4.29 
 Certificate Representing $862,510,000 of 7.25% Junior 
Subordinated Notes of Fifth Thir
d Bancorp. Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant™s Regist
ration Statement on Form 8-A filed 
with the Securities and Excha
nge Commission on October 31, 2007.
4.30 
 Amended and Restated 
Declaration of Trust da
ted as of October 30, 
2007 of Fifth Third Capital Trust VI
 among Fifth Third Bancorp, as 
Sponsor, Wilmington Trust Compa
ny, as Property Trustee and 
Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees named therein. 
Incorporated by reference to Regi
strant™s Registration Statement on 
Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on 

October 31, 2007.  
4.31 
 Certificate Representing 20,000,000 7.25% Trust Preferred 
Securities of Fifth Third Capital Trust VI (liquidation amount $25 
per Trust Preferred Security). Incorporated by reference to 
Registrant™s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commissi
on on October 31, 2007.  (Issuer also entered into an identi
cal certificate on October 30, 2007 
representing $362,500,000 in aggregate liquidation amount of 
7.25% Trust Preferred Securities of 
Fifth Third Capital Trust VI.)  
4.32 
 Certificate Representing 400 7.25% Common Securities of Fifth 
Third Capital Trust VI (liquidation amount $25 per Trust Preferred 
Security). Incorporated by refe
rence to Registrant's Quarterly 
Report on Form 10-Q filed for the quarter ended September 30, 

2007. 
4.33 
 Guarantee Agreement, dated as of October 30, 2007 between Fifth 
Third Bancorp, as Guarantor, and Wilmington Trust Company, as 

Guarantee Trustee. Incorporated 
by reference to Registrant™s 
Registration Statement on Form 8-
A filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission on October 31, 2007. 
4.34 
 Agreement as to Expense and Liabilities, dated as of October 30, 
2007 between Fifth Third Bancorp a
nd Fifth Third Capital Trust VI. 
Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Quarterly Report on Form 

10-Q filed for the quarter ended September 30, 2007. 
4.35 
 Replacement Capital Covenant of 
Fifth Third Bancorp dated as of 
October 30, 2007. Incorporated by re
ference to Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on October 31, 2007. 
4.36 
 Amendment No. 1 to Replacement 
Capital Covenant, dated as of 
November 24, 2010 amending the Re
placement Capital Covenant 
dated as of October 30, 2007. Incorporated by reference to 
Registrant™s Current Report on Form
 8-K filed with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission on November 26, 2010. Global security 
dated as of March 4, 2008 representing Fifth Third Bancorp™s 
$500,000,000 8.25% Subordinated Notes due 2038. Incorporated by 

reference to Registrant's Quarte
rly Report on Form 10-Q filed for 
the quarter ended March 31, 2008.  (1) 
4.37 
 Indenture for Senior Debt Secu
rities dated as of April 30, 2008 
between Fifth Third Bancorp and 
Wilmington Trust Company, as 
trustee.  Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Current Report 
on Form 8-K filed with the Secu
rities and Exchange Commission 
on May 6, 2008. 
4.38 
 Global security dated as of April 30, 2008 representing Fifth Third 
Bancorp™s $500,000,000 6.25% Senior Notes due 2013. 
Incorporated by reference to Regi
strant™s Current Report on Form 
8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 
2008.  (2) 
4.39 
 Fourth Supplemental Indenture da
ted as of May 6, 2008 between 
    Fifth Third Bancorp     141    
Fifth Third Bancorp and Wilmington 
Trust Company, as trustee, to 
the Junior Subordinated Indent
ure dated as of May 20, 1997 
between Fifth Third and the Trustee.
  Incorporated by reference to 
Registrant™s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the 

Securities and Exchange 
Commission on May 6, 2008. 
4.40 
 $400,010,000.00 8.875% Junior Subordinated Note dated as of May 
6, 2008 of Fifth Third Bancorp.  Incorporated by reference to 

Registrant™s Registration Statement on Form 8-A filed with the 
Securities and Exchange 
Commission on May 6, 2008. 
4.41 
 Amended and Restated 
Declaration of Trust of Fifth Third Capital 
Trust VII dated as of May 6, 2008 among Fifth Third Bancorp, as 
Sponsor, Wilmington Trust Compa
ny, as Property Trustee and 
Delaware Trustee, and the Administrative Trustees named therein. 

Incorporated by reference to Regi
strant™s Registration Statement on 
Form 8-A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on 
May 6, 2008. 
4.42 
 Certificate dated as of May 6, 2008 representing 16,000,000 
($400,000,000) 8.875% Tr
ust Preferred Securities of Fifth Third 
Capital Trust VII (liquidation 
amount $25 per Trust Preferred 
Security). Incorporated by refere
nce to Registrant™s Registration 
Statement on Form 8-A filed with
 the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on May 6, 2008. 
4.43 
 Certificate dated as of May 6, 2008 representing 400 ($10,000) 
8.875% Common Securities of Fi
fth Third Capital Trust VII (liquidation amount $25 per Common 
Security).  Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with the 
Securities and Exchange 
Commission on May 6, 2008. 
4.44 
 Guarantee Agreement dated as of May 6, 2008 for Fifth Third 
Capital Trust VII between Fifth Th
ird Bancorp, as Guarantor, and 
Wilmington Trust Company, as Guarantee Trustee. Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant™s Regist
ration Statement on Form 8-A filed 
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 2008. 
4.45 
 Agreement as to Expense and Liabilities, dated as of May 6, 2008 
between Fifth Third Bancorp and Fi
fth Third Capital Trust VII.  
Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Current Report on Form 

8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 6, 
2008. 
4.46 
 Deposit Agreement dated June 25, 2008, between Fifth Third 
Bancorp, Wilmington Trust Compan
y, as depositary and conversion 
agent and American Stock Transfer 
and Trust Company, as transfer 
agent, and the holders from time to time of the Receipts described 

therein.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 of the Registrant™s 

Current Report on Form 8-K filed wi
th the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on June 25, 2008.  
4.47 
 Form of Certificate Representing the 8.50 % Non-Cumulative 
Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series G, of Fifth Third 
Bancorp. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of the 
Registrant™s Current Report on Form
 8-K filed with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission on June 25, 2008. 
4.48 
 Form of Depositary Receipt for the 8.50 % Non-Cumulative 
Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series G, of Fifth Third 

Bancorp.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 of 
the Registrant™s
 Current Report on Form 8-K filed wi
th the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on June 25, 2008. 
4.49 
 
 
 4.50 
 
   
 
   4.51 
  Warrant to Purchase up to 43,617,747 shares of Common Stock.   
Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of 
the Registrant™s
 Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on December 31, 2008. 
 Supplemental Indenture dated as 
of January 25, 2011 between Fifth 
Third Bancorp and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee, to the 

Indenture for Senior Debt Securities dated as of April 30, 2008 
between Fifth Third and the Trustee.
 Incorporated by reference to 
the Registrant™s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the 

Securities and Exchange Co
mmission on January 25, 2011. 
 Global Security dated as of Ja
nuary 25, 2011 representing Fifth 
Third Bancorp™s $500,000,000 3.625% Senior Notes due 2016. 

Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Current Report on 
Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on 
January 25, 2011. (3) 
 10.1 
   Fifth Third Bancorp Unfunded
 Deferred Compensation Plan for 
Non-Employee Directors.  Incorporat
ed by reference to Registrant™s 
Annual Report on Form 10-K filed fo
r fiscal year ended December 
31, 1985. * 
10.2 
   Fifth Third Bancorp 1990 Stock Option Plan.  Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant™s filing 
with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission as an exhibit to the Re
gistrant™s Registration Statement 
on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-34075. * 
10.3 
  Fifth Third Bancorp 1987 Stock Option Plan.  Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant™s filing 
with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission as an exhibit to the Re
gistrant™s Registration Statement 
on Form S-8, Registration No. 33-13252. * 
10.4 
  Indenture effective November
 19, 1992 between Fifth Third 
Bancorp, Issuer and NBD Bank, N.A., Trustee.  Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Comm
ission on November 18, 1992 and 
as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant™s Registration Statement on Form S-
3, Registration No. 33-54134. 
10.5 
  Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing Plan, as Amended.  
Incorporated by reference to Re
gistrant™s Annual Report on Form 
10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. * 
10.6 
 Fifth Third Bancorp Incentive Compensation Plan.  Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant™s Proxy Statement dated February 19, 2004. * 
10.7 
  Amended and Restated Fifth 
Third Bancorp 1993 Stock Purchase 
Plan. Incorporated by reference 
to Registrant™s Annual Report on 
Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003. * 
10.8 
  Fifth Third Bancorp 1998 Long-Term Incentive Stock Plan, as 
Amended.  Incorporated by referenc
e to the Exhibits to Registrant™s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 

2003.* 
10.9 
  Fifth Third Bancorp Non-qualifie
d Deferred Compensation Plan, as 
Amended and Restated.  Incorporated
 by reference to Registrant™s 
Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended 
December 31, 2007. * 
10.10
  CNB Bancshares, Inc. 1999 Stock Incentive Plan, 1995 Stock 
Incentive Plan, 1992 Stock Incentiv
e Plan and Associate Stock 
Option Plan; and Indiana Federa
l Corporation 1986 Stock Option 
and Incentive Plan.  Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s filing 
with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission as an exhibit to a 
Registration Statement on Form 
S-4, Registration No. 333-84955 
and by reference to CNB Bancsh
ares Annual Report on Form 10-K, 
as amended, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998. * 
10.11
  Fifth Third Bancorp Stock Option 
Gain Deferral Plan.  Incorporated 
by reference to Registrant™s Pr
oxy Statement dated February 9, 
2001.* 
10.12
 Amendment No. 1 to Fifth Third Bancorp Stock Option Gain 
Deferral Plan.  Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Current 

Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on May 26, 2006. * 
10.13
  Old Kent Executive Stock Option Plan of 1986, as Amended.  
Incorporated by reference to the following filings by Old Kent 

Financial Corporation with 
the Securities and Exchange 
Commission: Exhibit 10 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
September 30, 1995; Exhibit 10.19 to Form 8-K filed on March 5, 

1997; Exhibit 10.3 to Form 8-K filed on March 2, 2000. * 
10.14
  Old Kent Stock Option Incentive Plan of 1992, as Amended.  
Incorporated by reference to the following filings by Old Kent 

Financial Corporation with 
the Securities and Exchange 
Commission: Exhibit 10(b) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
June 30, 1995; Exhibit 10.20 to Form 8-K filed on March 5, 1997; 

Exhibit 10(d) to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1997; 
Exhibit 10.3 to Form 8-K filed on March 2, 2000. * 
10.15
  Old Kent Executive Stock Incentive Plan of 1997, as Amended.  
Incorporated by reference to Old Kent Financial Corporation™s 
Annual Meeting Proxy Statement dated March 1, 1997. * 
10.16
  Old Kent Stock Incentive Plan of 1999.  Incorporated by reference 
to Old Kent Financial Corpor
ation™s Annual Meeting Proxy 
Statement dated March 1, 1999. * 
10.17
 Notice of Grant of Performance Units and Award Agreement.  
Incorporated by reference to Re
gistrant™s Annual Report on Form 
10-K filed for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. * 
10.18
 Notice of Grant of Restricted 
Stock and Award Agreement (for 
Executive Officers).  Incorporated
 by reference to Registrant™s 
Annual Report on Form 10-K filed for the fiscal year ended 
December 31, 2004. * 
10.19
 Notice of Grant of Stock Appreciation Rights and Award 
Agreement.  Incorporated by re
ference to Registrant™s Annual 
Report on Form 10-K filed for the 
fiscal year ended December 31, 
2004. * 
10.20
 Notice of Grant of Restricted 
Stock and Award Agreement (for 
Directors).  Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Annual 
Report on Form 10-K filed for the 
fiscal year ended December 31, 
2004. * 
             142    Fifth Third Bancorp     
10.21 
 Franklin Financial Corporation 1990 Incentive Stock Option Plan.  
Incorporated by reference to Fr
anklin Financial Corporation™s 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
1989.* 
10.22 
 Franklin Financial Corporation 2000 Incentive Stock Option Plan.  
Incorporated by reference to Fr
anklin Financial Corporation™s 
Registration Statement on Form S-
8, Registration No. 333-52928. *
10.23 
 Amended and Restated First Nati
onal Bankshares of Florida, Inc. 
2003 Incentive Plan. Incorporated by reference to First National 
Bankshares of Florida, Inc.™s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 

year ended December 31, 2003. * 
10.24 
 Southern Community Bancorp Equity Incentive Plan.  Incorporated 
by reference to Southern Co
mmunity Bancorp™s Registration 
Statement on Form SB-2, Registration No. 333-35548. * 
10.25 
 Southern Community Bancorp Director Statutory Stock Option Plan. 
Incorporated by reference to Southern Community Bancorp™s 
Registration Statement on Form SB-2, Registration No. 333-35548. * 
10.26 
 Peninsula Bank of Central Flor
ida Key Employee Stock Option 
Plan.  Incorporated by reference to Southern Community Bancorp™s 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 

2003. * 
10.27 
 Peninsula Bank of Central Florid
a Director Stock Option Plan.  
Incorporated by reference to Southern Community Bancorp™s 
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 

2003. * 
10.28 
 First Bradenton Bank Amended a
nd Restated Stock Option Plan. 
Incorporated by reference to Re
gistrant™s Annual Report on Form 
10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2004. * 
10.29 
 Letter Agreement with R. Mark Graf
.  Incorporated by reference to 
the Exhibits to Registrant™s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the 

quarter ended September 30, 2005. * 
10.30 
 Amendment Dated January 16, 2006 to the Letter Agreement with 
R. Mark Graf.  Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Current 

Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on January 17, 2006. 
10.31 
 Separation Agreement between Fi
fth Third Bancorp and Neal E. 
Arnold dated as of December 14, 2005.  Incorporated by reference 
to Registrant™s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Comm
ission on December 22, 2005. * 
10.32 
 Stipulation and Agreement of Se
ttlement dated March 29, 2005, as 
Amended.  Incorporated by refere
nce to Registrant™s Current Report 
on Form 8-K filed with the Secu
rities and Exchange Commission 
on November 18, 2005. 
10.33 
 Amendment to Stipulation dated May 10, 2005.  Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Comm
ission on November 18, 2005. 
10.34 
 Second Amendment to Stipula
tion dated August 12, 2005.  
Incorporated by reference to Registrant™s Current Report on Form 

8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on 

November 18, 2005.
 10.35 
 Order and Final Judgment of the Un
ited States District Court for the 
Southern District of Ohio.  Incorporated by reference to 

Registrant™s Current Report on Form
 8-K filed with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission on November 18, 2005. 
10.36 
 Offer letter from Fifth Third Banc
orp to Ross J. Kari. Incorporated 
by reference to Registrant™s Curre
nt Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange Co
mmission on November 12, 2008. *
10.37 
 Separation Agreement between
 Fifth Third Bancorp and 
Christopher G. Marshall dated May 1, 2008. Incorporated by 
reference to Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Co
mmission on May 2, 2008. * 
10.38 
 Letter Agreement, dated December 31, 2008, including Securities 
Purchase Agreement Œ Standard Terms incorporated by reference 
therein, between the Company and the United States Department of 

the Treasury. Incorporated by re
ference to Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on December 31, 2008. 
10.39 
 Form of Waiver, executed by each of Messrs. Kevin Kabat, Ross 
Kari, Greg Carmichael, Charles Drucker, Bruce Lee, Dan Poston, 
Robert A. Sullivan and Terry Zink.
 Incorporated by reference to 
Registrant™s Current Report on Form
 8-K filed with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission on December 31, 2008. * 
10.40
 Form of Letter Agreement, executed by each of Messrs. Kevin 
Kabat, Ross Kari, Greg Carmichael, Charles Drucker, Bruce Lee, 
Dan Poston, Robert A. Sullivan and Terry Zink with the Company. 
Incorporated by reference to Regi
strant™s Current Report on Form 
8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on 
December 31, 2008. * 
10.41
 Form of Executive Agreements effective December 31, 2008, 
between Fifth Third Bancorp and 
Kevin T. Kabat, Robert A. 
Sullivan, Greg D. Carmichael, Ross 
Kari, Bruce K. Lee, Charles D. 
Drucker and Terry Zink. Incorporated
 by reference to Registrant™s 
Current Report on Form 8-K filed wi
th the Securities and Exchange 
Commission on December 31, 2008. * 
10.42
 Form of Executive Agreements effective December 31, 2008, 
between Fifth Third Bancorp and Nancy Phillips, Daniel T. Poston, 
Paul L. Reynolds and Mary E. Tuuk. Incorporated by reference to 
Registrant™s Current Report on Form
 8-K filed with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission on December 31, 2008. * 
10.43
 Form of Executive Agreement effective December 31, 2008, 
between Fifth Third Bancorp and 
Mahesh Sankaran. Incorporated 
by reference to Registrant™s Curre
nt Report on Form 8-K filed with 
the Securities and Exchange Co
mmission on December 31, 2008. *
10.44
 Warrant dated June 30, 2009 issued 
by FTPS Holding, LLC to Fifth 
Third Bank. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 2, 2009. 
 10.45
 Amended & Restated Limited Liability Company Agreement 
(excluding certain exhibits) da
ted as of June 30, 2009 among 
Advent-Kong Blocker Corp., Fifth 
Third Bank, FTPS Partners, 
LLC, JPDN Enterprises, LLC and FTPS Holding, LLC. 

Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Current Report on 
Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 2, 2009. 
10.46
 Amendment and Restatement Agreement and Reaffirmation 
(excluding certain schedules) dated 
as of June 30, 2009 among Fifth 
Third Processing Solutions, LLC, FTPS Holding, LLC, Card 
Management Company, LLC, Fift
h Third Holdings, LLC and Fifth 
Third Bank. Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Current 
Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 2, 2009. 
10.47
 Registration Rights Agreement da
ted as of June 30, 2009 among 
Advent-Kong Blocker Corp., Fifth 
Third Bank, FTPS Partners, 
LLC, JPDN Enterprises, LLC and FTPS Holding, LLC. 
Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Current Report on 

Form 8-K filed with the Commission on July 2, 2009. 
10.48
 
 
   
10.49

   
 
10.50
  
 
 10.51
 Form of Agreement Regarding Portion of Salary Payable in 
Phantom Stock Units dated October 16, 2009 executed by Kevin 
Kabat, Greg Carmichael, Greg Kosch, Bruce Lee, Dan Poston, Paul 

Reynolds, Robert Sullivan, and 
Terry Zink. Incorporated by 
reference to the Registrant™s 
Quarterly Report on 10-Q for the 
quarter ended September 30, 2009. * 

Form of Agreement Regarding Portion of Salary Payable in 
Phantom Stock Units dated March 26, 2010 executed by Mary 
Tuuk.  Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Quarterly 

Report on 10-Q for the quarter 
ended September 30, 2009. * 
Form of Letter Agreement dated 
June 29, 2010 executed by each of 
Kevin Kabat, Greg Carmichael, Greg Kosch, Bruce Lee, Dan 

Poston, Paul Reynolds, Robert A. Sullivan and Mary Tuuk with the 
Company. Incorporated by referenc
e to the Registrant™s Quarterly 
Report on 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010. * 

Form of Addendum No.1 to Agreement Regarding Portion of 
Salary Payable in Phantom Stock 
Units executed by each of Kevin 
Kabat, Greg Carmichael, Greg Kosch, Bruce Lee, Dan Poston, Paul 

Reynolds, Robert A. Sullivan a
nd Mary Tuuk with the Company. 
Incorporated by reference to the Registrant™s Quarterly Report on 
10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010. *
 12.1 
 Computations of Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
12.2 
 Computations of Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to Combined 
Fixed Charges and Preferred 
Stock Dividend Requirements. 
14 
 Code of Ethics.  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 14 of the 
Registrant™s Current Report on Form
 8-K filed with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission on January 23, 2007. 
21 
 Fifth Third Bancorp Subsidiaries, as of December 31, 2010. 
23 
 Consent of Independent Regist
ered Public Accounting Firm-
Deloitte & Touche LLP. 
31(i)
 Certification Pursuant to Secti
on 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002 by Chief Executive Officer.  
31(ii)
 Certification Pursuant to Secti
on 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 
2002 by Chief Financial Officer. 
    Fifth Third Bancorp     143    
32(i) 
   Certification Pursuant to 
18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted 
Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by 
Chief Executive Officer. 
32(ii) 
 Certification Pursuant to 18 
U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted 
Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 by 
Chief Financial Officer. 
99.1 
 Certification Pursuant to S
ection 111 (b)(4) of the Emergency 
Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 by Chief Executive Officer 
99.2 
 Certification Pursuant to S
ection 111 (b)(4) of the Emergency 
Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 
by Chief Financial Officer 
101 
 Interactive data files pursuant to 
Rule 405 of Regulation S-T: (i) the 
Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) 
the Consolidated Statements of 
Income, (iii) the Consolidated
 Statements of Changes in 
Shareholders™ Equity, (iv) the C
onsolidated Statements of Cash 
Flows, and (v) the Notes to Cons
olidated Financial Statements 
tagged as blocks of text and in detail.  **   
   
(1) Fifth Third Bancorp also entered into an identical security on March 4, 2008 
representing an additional $500,000,000 of its 8.25% Subordinated Notes due 
2038. 
(2) Fifth Third Bancorp also entered into an identical security on April 30, 2008 
representing an additional $250,000,000 of its 6.25% Senior Notes due 2013.  
(3) Fifth Third Bancorp also entered into an identical security on January 25, 2011 
representing an additional $500,000,000 of its 3.625% Senior Notes due 2016. 
   *    Denotes management contract or
 compensatory plan or arrangement. **  As provided in Rule 406T of Regulation S-T, this information is furnished 
and not filed for purposes of Sections 11 and 12 of the Securities Act of 
1933 and Section 18 of the Secur
ities Exchange Act of 1934.   
             144    Fifth Third Bancorp     
SIGNATURES 
 Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused 

this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, 

thereunto duly authorized. 

 FIFTH THIRD BANCORP 
Registrant 
 /s/ Kevin T. Kabat Kevin T. Kabat President and CEO 

Principal Executive Officer 

February 28, 2011 
 Pursuant to requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 

1934, this report has been signed on February 28, 2011 by the 

following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the 

capacities indicated. 
  OFFICERS
:  /s/ Kevin T. Kabat Kevin T. Kabat 
President and CEO 
Principal Executive Officer 
 /s/ Daniel T. Poston 
Daniel T. Poston  
Executive Vice President and CFO 
Principal Financial Officer 

 /s/ Mark D. Hazel 
Mark D. Hazel  
Senior Vice President and Controller 
Principal Accounting Officer 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 DIRECTORS: 
 /s/ William M. Isaac 
William M. Isaac 
Chairman  
 /s/ James P. Hackett 
James P. Hackett Lead Director  /s/ Darryl F. Allen 
Darryl F. Allen  /s/ Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr. 
Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr. 
 /s/ Emerson L. Brumback 
Emerson L. Brumback 
 /s/ Gary R. Heminger 
Gary R. Heminger  /s/ Jewell D. Hoover 
Jewell D. Hoover 
 /s/ Kevin T. Kabat Kevin T. Kabat 
 /s/ Mitchel D. Livingston, Ph.D. 
Mitchel D. Livingston, Ph.D. 
 /s/ Hendrik G. Meijer 
Hendrik G. Meijer 
 /s/ John J. Schiff, Jr. 
John J. Schiff, Jr. 
 /s/ Dudley S. Taft 
Dudley S. Taft  /s/ Marsha C. Williams 
Marsha C. Williams  CONSOLIDATED TEN YEAR COMPARISON 
   Fifth Third Bancorp    145 
AVERAGE ASSETS ($ IN MILLIONS)
              
 Interest-Earning Assets    
Year Loans and Leases 
Federal Funds 
Sold (a)
 Interest-Bearing Deposits in Banks (a)
 Securities   Total 
Cash and Due 
from Banks 
Other  
Assets Total 
Average Assets 2010 $79,232 11 3,317 16,371 $98,931 2,245 14,841 $112,434 
2009 83,391 12 1,023 17,100 101,526 2,329 14,266 114,856 
2008 85,835 438 183 13,424 99,880 2,490 13,411 114,296 

2007 78,348 257 147 11,630 90,382 2,275 10,613 102,477 

2006 73,493 252 144 20,910 94,799 2,477 8,713 105,238 

2005 67,737 88 113 24,806 92,744 2,750 8,102 102,876 

2004 57,042 120 195 30,282 87,639 2,216 5,763 94,896 

2003 52,414  92  215  28,640  81,361  1,600  5,250 87,481 

2002 45,539  155  184  23,246  69,124  1,551  5,007 75,037 
2001 44,888  69  132  19,737  64,826  1,482  5,000 70,683 
 AVERAGE DEPOSITS AND SHORT-TERM
 BORROWINGS ($ IN MILLIONS)
            
 Deposits    
Year Demand 
Interest Checking Savings 
Money Market 
Other  
Time 
Certificates 
$100,000 
and Over 
Foreign 
Office Total 
Short-Term 
BorrowingsTotal 
2010 $19,669 18,218 19,612 4,808 10,526 6,083 3,361 $82,277 1,926 $84,203 
2009 16,862 15,070 16,875 4,320 14,103 10,367 2,265 79,862 6,980 86,842 
2008 14,017 14,191 16,192 6,127 11,135 9,531 4,220 75,413 10,760 86,173 

2007 13,261 14,820 14,836 6,308 10,778 6,466 3,155 69,624 6,890 76,514 

2006 13,741 16,650 12,189 6,366 10,500 5,795 3,711 68,952 8,670 77,622 

2005 13,868 18,884 10,007 5,170 8,491 4,001 3,967 64,388 9,511 73,899 

2004 12,327 19,434 7,941 3,473 6,208 2,403 4,449 56,235 13,539 69,774 
2003 10,482  18,679    8,020    3,189    6,426    3,832    3,862  54,490  12,373  66,863  
2002   8,953  16,239    9,465    1,162    8,855    2,237    2,018  48,929  7,191  56,120  

2001   7,394  11,489    4,928    2,552  13,473    3,821    1,992  45,649  8,799  54,448  
 INCOME ($ IN MILLIONS, 
EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
             
 Per Share 
(b) 
  Originally Reported
Year Interest Income Interest Expense 
Noninterest 
Income Noninterest 
Expense 
Net Income  
(Loss)  Available to Common 
Shareholders Earnings 
Diluted Earnings 
Dividends Declared Earnings 
Diluted Earnings
2010 $4,489 885 2,729 3,855 503 0.63 0.63 .04 0.63 $0.63 
2009 4,668 1,314 4,782 3,826 511 0.73 0.67 .04 0.73 0.67 
2008 5,608 2,094 2,946 4,564 (2,180) (3.91) (3.91) .75 (3.94) (3.94) 
2007 6,027 3,018 2,467 3,311 1,075 1.99 1.98 1.70 2.00 1.99 
2006 5,955 3,082 2,012 2,915 1,188 2.13 2.12          1.58 2.14 2.13 

2005 4,995 2,030 2,374 2,801 1,548 2.79 2.77          1.46  2.79 2.77 

2004 4,114 1,102 2,355 2,863 1,524 2.72 2.68           1.31 2.72 2.68 

2003   3,991    1,086    2,398    2,466    1,664  2.91  2.87            1.13 2.91  2.87  

2002   4,129    1,430    2,111    2,265    1,530  2.64 2.59            .98 2.64  2.59  

2001   4,709    2,278    1,732    2,397    1,001  1.74 1.70            .83 1.74  1.70  
 MISCELLANEOUS AT DECEMBER 31 ($ IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA) 
          
                        Bancorp Shareholders™ Equity  
Year Common Shares 
Outstanding  Common 
Stock 
Preferred 
Stock 
Capital Surplus 
Retained 
Earnings 
Accumulated 
Other 
Comprehensive 
Income Treasury 
Stock Total 
Book Value Per  
Share  
Allowance 
for Loan  
and Lease 
Losses 
2010 796,272,522 $1,779 3,654 1,715 6,719 314 (130) $14,051 13.06 $3,004 
2009 795,068,164 1,779 3,609 1,743 6,326 241 (201) 13,497 12.44 3,749 
2008 577,386,612 1,295 4,241 848 5,824 98 (229) 12,077 13.57 2,787 

2007 532,671,925 1,295 9 1,779 8,413 (126) (2,209) 9,161 17.18 937 

2006 556,252,674 1,295 9 1,812 8,317 (179) (1,232) 10,022 18.00 771 
2005 555,623,430 1,295 9 1,827 8,007 (413) (1,279) 9,446 16.98 744 
2004 557,648,989    1,295    9  1,934 7,269      (169)    (1,414)   8,924  15.99  713  

2003 566,685,301    1,295    9  1,964   6,481     (120)    (962)   8,667  15.29  697  

2002 574,355,247    1,295    9  2,010   5,465 369     (544)   8,604  14.98  683  

2001 582,674,580    1,294    9  1,943   4,502    8  (4)   7,752  13.31  624  
(a) Federal funds sold and inter
est-bearing deposits in banks ar
e combined in other short-term investments in the Consolidated 
Financial Statements. 
  (b) Adjusted for accounting guidance relating to the calculatio
n of earnings per share, which 
was adopted retroactively on Janu
ary 1, 2009.  
   
 DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS 
146    Fifth Third Bancorp     
 FIFTH THIRD BANCORP 
DIRECTORS William M. Isaac, Chairman 
Chairman 
LECG Global Financial Services James P. Hackett, Lead Director 
President & CEO 

Steelcase, Inc.
 Darryl F. Allen 
Retired Chairman 
President & CEO 
Aeroquip-Vickers, Inc. 
Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr. 
President 

ERJ Inc. and Manna, Inc.
 Emerson L. Brumback 
Retired President & COO 
M&T Bank
 Gary R. Heminger 
Executive Vice President 
Marathon Oil Corporation
 Jewell D. Hoover Principal 
Hoover and Associates,
 LLC 
Kevin T. Kabat 
President & CEO 
Fifth Third Bancorp Mitchel D. Livingston, Ph.D. 
Vice President for Student Affairs 

& Chief Diversity Officer  

University of Cincinnati 
Hendrik G. Meijer Co-Chairman & CEO 
Meijer, Inc.
 John J. Schiff, Jr. 
Chairman 

Cincinnati Financial Corporation & 

Cincinnati Insurance Company Dudley S. Taft 
President 
Taft Broadcasting Company 
Marsha C. Williams 
Senior Vice President & Chief 
Financial Officer  
Orbitz Worldwide, Inc.
 DIRECTORS EMERITI  

Neil A. Armstrong 
Philip G. Barach 
John F. Barrett 
Vincent H. Beckman 

J. Kenneth Blackwell 
Milton C. Boesel, Jr. 
Douglas G. Cowan 

Thomas L. Dahl 

Ronald A. Dauwe 
Gerald V. Dirvin 
Thomas B. Donnell 

Nicholas M. Evans 

Richard T. Farmer 
Louis R. Fiore 
John D. Geary 

Ivan W. Gorr 

Joseph H. Head, Jr. 
Allen M. Hill 
William G. Kagler 

William J. Keating 

Jerry L. Kirby Robert L. Koch II 
Kenneth W. Lowe 

Robert B. Morgan 

Michael H. Norris David E. Reese 
James E. Rogers 
C. Wesley Rowles 

George A. Schaefer, Jr. 
Donald B. Shackelford 
David B. Sharrock 

Stephen Stranahan 

Dennis J. Sullivan, Jr. 
Thomas W. Traylor 
N. Beverley Tucker, Jr. 
Alton C. Wendzel 

 FIFTH THIRD BANCORP OFFICERS Kevin T. Kabat 
President & CEO
 Greg D. Carmichael 
Executive Vice President & 
Chief Operating Officer 
Mark D. Hazel Senior Vice President & 
Controller James R. Hubbard 
Senior Vice President & 

Chief Legal Officer 
Gregory L. Kosch 
Executive Vice President 
Bruce K. Lee 
Executive Vice President 
Daniel T. Poston 
Executive Vice President & 
Chief Financial Officer Paul L. Reynolds  
Executive Vice President, Secretary & 

Chief Administrative Officer  
Joseph R. Robinson 
Executive Vice President & 
Chief Information Officer  
Mahesh Sankaran 
Senior Vice President & Treasurer
  Robert A. Sullivan 
Senior Executive Vice President 
Teresa J. Tanner 
Executive Vice President & 
Chief Human Resources Officer 
Mary E. Tuuk Executive Vice President &  
Chief Risk Officer 
 AFFILIATE CHAIRMEN 
H. Lee Cooper 
Southern Indiana 
Gordon E. Inman 
Tennessee 
John S. Szuch 
Northwestern Ohio Terry E. Zink 
Chicago 
 AFFILIATE AND MARKET 
PRESIDENTS  
Don Abel 

John H. Bultema III David A. Call 
Todd F. Clossin  

John N. Daniel 

Karen Dee 
Jay Ferguson David Girodat 

Dan W. Hogan 

Nancy H. Huber  
Robert E. James, Jr. 
Brian P. Keenan 

Jerry Kelsheimer 

Randy Koporc 
Robert W. LaClair 
Ralph S. Michael III  

Jordan A. Miller, Jr. 

Thomas Partridge Robert A. Sullivan 
Michelle L. VanDyke 

Thomas G. Welch, Jr. 

   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
   
 
  FIFTH THIRD BANCORP 
BOARD COMMITTEES 
Finance Committee Kevin T. Kabat, Chair  

James P. Hackett 

Gary R. Heminger 
Dudley S. Taft 
 
Audit Committee 

Darryl F. Allen, Chair 
Emerson L. Brumback 
Jewell D. Hoover 
Marsha C. Williams 

 Compensation Committee 
Gary R. Heminger, Chair 

Emerson L. Brumback 

Mitchel D. Livingston, Ph. D. 
Hendrik G. Meijer  
Nominating and Corporate 

Governance Committee 
James P. Hackett, Chair
 Darryl F. Allen 

Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr. 

Marsha C. Williams 
 Risk and Compliance 

Committee 

Marsha C. Williams, Chair 
Ulysses L. Bridgeman, Jr. 
Jewell D. Hoover 
Hendrik G. Meijer 
Dudley S. Taft 
 Trust Committee 

Mitchel D. Livingston, Ph.D., 
Chair Kevin T. Kabat  
John J. Schiff, Jr. 

 2010 Financial Highlightswww.53.com
