M&T BANK CORPORA
TION  
2013 
ANNUAL 
REPOR
Twww.mtb.com 
M&T BANK CORPORATION  /  2013 ANNUAL REPORT 10%
COVER & S
EC 10
-K:˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˝˘
NARRATIVE:
COVER: 
Flat size 17.1875ﬂ x 10.875ﬂ Finished 8.375ﬂ x 10.875ﬂ .46875ﬂ spine widthCMYK + PMS 341corp008511 2013Cover_db_M5.indd   1-31/24/14   2:55 PM DIVIDEND  A plan is available to common shareholders whereby they may invest their 
 REINVESTMENT PLAN  dividends and voluntary cash payments in additional shares of M&T Bank 
  Corporation™s common stock.
 INQUIRIES  Requests for information about the Dividend Reinvestment Plan and questions 
about stock certi˜cates, dividend checks or other account information should 

be addressed to M&T Bank Corporation™s transfer agent, registrar and dividend 

disbursing agent:
  Registrar and Transfer Company
  10 Commerce Drive 
   Cranford, NJ
 07016-3572  800-368-5948  E-mail address: info@rtco.com
  Internet address: www.rtco.com
   
Requests for additional copies of this publication or annual or quarterly reports 

˜led with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC Forms 

10-K and 10-Q), which are available at no charge, may be directed to:
  M&T Bank Corporation
  Shareholder Relations Department
  One M&T Plaza, 8th Floor
  Bu˚alo, NY
 14203-2399  716-842-5138  E-mail address: ir@mtb.com
  All other general inquiries may be directed to: 716-635-4000
 INTERNET ADDRESS www.mtb.com
 QUOTATION AND TRADING  M&T Bank Corporation™s common stock is traded under the
 OF CO
MMON STOCK  symbol MTB on the New York Stock Exchange (ﬁNYSEﬂ).
  COVER ART: Barnes Totem 
is the creation 
 of Ellsworth Kelly, an American master of abstract 
expressionism. It stands forty feet tall, is made 
 of bead-blasted stainless steel, and was designed 
speci˜cally for the garden outside ˚e Barnes 
 Foundation in Philadelphia. At the end of a re˛ecting 
pool, the sculpture is the focal point of a contemplative
 space between a row of maple trees and the building. 

Its pebbly surface complements the building™s exterior;
 its vertical lines reach upward, reinforcing the 
concept of con˜dent growth. 
Established by Dr. Albert C. Barnes in 1922, ˚e 
Barnes Foundation supports education, the ˜ne 
 arts and horticulture. Wilmington Trust, part of 
 the M&T corporate family, is proud to partner with 
˚e Barnes Foundation to promote the arts.
Ellsworth Kelly (American, b. 1923), Barnes Totem, 2011, 
 stainless steel, 480 x 80 x 20 inches (1219.2 x 203.2 x 50.8 cm), 
 
˚e Barnes Foundation. Made possible through the generosity 
 
of ˚e Neubauer Family Foundation, 2012.01.01.
www.barnesfoundation.org
Photographs by David Moser.
Flat size 17.21875ﬂ x 10.875ﬂ Finished 8.375ﬂ x 10.875ﬂ .46875ﬂ spine widthCMYK + PMS 376corp008511 2013Cover_db_M5.indd   4-61/24/14   2:55 PMi CONTENTS
 Financial Highlights
 ........................................ii  Message to Shareholders
 ....................................iv  O˜cers and Directors
 ...................................xxxiii  United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Form 10-K
 ..xxxvi
 ANNUAL MEETING  ˚e annual meeting of shareholders will take place at 11:00 a.m. on 
 April 15, 2014 at One M&T Plaza in Bu˛alo.
 PROFILE  
M&T Bank Corporation is a bank holding company headquartered in 
 Bu˛alo, New York, which had assets of $85.2 billion at December 31, 2013.
   
M&T Bank Corporation™s subsidiaries include M&T Bank and Wilmington 

Trust, National Association.
   M&T Bank has domestic banking o˜ces in New York State, Pennsylvania, 
Maryland, Delaware, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia, 
 and has o˜ces in Ontario, Canada and the Cayman Islands. 
 Major subsidiaries include:
M&T BANK CORPORATION
  M&T Insurance Agency, Inc.
  M&T Real Estate Trust
  M&T Realty Capital Corporation
  M&T Securities, Inc.
   Wilmington Trust Company 
  Wilmington Trust Investment Advisors, Inc.
   iiM&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
Financial Highlights(a) Excludes amortization and balances related to goodwill and core deposit and other intangible assets and merger-related gains and 
expenses which, except in the calculation of the e˜  ciency ratio, are net of applicable income tax e˚ ects. A reconciliation of net income 
and net operating income appears in Item 7, Table 2 in Form 10-K.
(b) Excludes impact of merger-related expenses and net securities transactions.
 2013 2012 Change
For the year
Performance
 Net income (thousands)
 ...........  $ 1,138,480 $1,029,498 
+ 11%
 Net income available to common 
  shareholders Š diluted (thousands)
 ...
 1,062,496 953,429 
+ 11%
 Return on
  Average assets 
 .................  1.36% 1.29%
  Average common equity
 ..........  10.93% 10.96%
 Net interest margin
 ..............  3.65% 3.73%
 Net charge-o˛ s/average loans
 .......  .28% .30%
Per common share data
 Basic earnings
 .................   $    8.26 $    7.57 
+ 9%
 Diluted earnings
 ...............  8.20 7.54 
+ 9%
 Cash dividends
 ................ 2.80 2.80  
   Š 
Net operating (tangible) results
(a) Net operating income (thousands)
 ....  $ 1,174,635 $1,072,510 
+ 10%
 Diluted net operating earnings 
  per common share
 ..............  8.48 7.88 
+ 8%
 Net operating return on
  Average tangible assets
 ...........  1.47% 1.40%
  Average tangible common equity
 .....
  17.79% 19.42%
 E˜  ciency ratio
(b)................  57.05% 56.19%
At December 31
Balance sheet data (millions)
 Loans and leases, 
  net of unearned discount
 ..........  $ 64,073 $  66,571 
- 4% Total assets
 ...................  85,162 83,009 
+ 3%
 Deposits
 .....................  67,119 65,611 
+ 2%
 Total shareholders™ equity
 ..........  11,306 10,203 
+ 11%
 Common shareholders™ equity
 ....... 10,421 9,327 
+ 12%
Loan quality
 Allowance for credit losses to total loans 
 .
  1.43% 1.39%
 Nonaccrual loans ratio
 ............  1.36% 1.52%
Capital
 Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
 .......  12.00% 10.22% 
 Total risk-based capital ratio
 ........ 15.07%  13.39% 
 Leverage ratio
 .................  10.78% 10.07%
 Tier 1 common ratio
 ............. 9.22% 7.57%
 Total equity/total assets
 ............  13.28% 12.29%
 Common equity (book value) per share
 .. $   79.81 $   72.73 
+ 10%
 Tangible common equity per share
 ....
 52.45 44.61 
+ 18%
 Market price per share
  Closing
 .....................  116.42 98.47 
+ 18%
  High
 .......................
  119.54 105.33
  Low
 .......................
  95.68 76.82  
iiiDILUTED EARNINGSPER COMMON SHARE 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013Diluted net operating(a)Diluted$3.54 $5.84 $6.55 $7.88 $8.48$2.89 $5.69 $6.35 $7.54 $8.20RETURN ON AVERAGE COMMONSHAREHOLDERS™ EQUITY 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013Net operating return on average tangible  common shareholders™ equity(a)Return on average common shareholders™ equity13.42% 18.95% 17.96% 19.42% 17.79%  5.07%   9.30%   9.67% 10.96% 10.93%NET INCOMEIn millions 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013Net operating income(a)Net income$455.4 $755.2 $884.3 $1,072.5 $1,174.6$379.9 $736.2 $859.5 $1,029.5 $1,138.5SHAREHOLDERS™ EQUITYPER COMMON SHARE AT YEAR-END 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Shareholders™ equity per common share  
at year-end 
Tangible shareholders™ equity per common share at year-end$59.31 $63.54 $66.82 $72.73 $79.81$28.27 $33.26 $37.79 $44.61 $52.45(a) Excludes merger-related gains and expenses and amortization of intangible assets, net of applicable income tax e˚ects. 
 A reconciliation of net operating (tangible) results with net income is included in Item 7, Table 2 in Form 10-K.
ivMESSAGE TO SHAREHOLDERS
vn these pages last year, I noted with pride the level of hard work and 
dedication our employees put into a year of noteworthy accomplishments. 
In 2013, our employees outdid themselves in undertaking the initiatives 
discussed in this Message, and in helping the bank grow amidst a very 

competitive banking environment, in spite of an extensive focus on 
 regulatory compliance e˛orts.
˚e year past was indeed an eventful one for M&T. In 2013, we 
 logged new highs in net income and earnings per common share while 

extending to 150 the number of quarters in which we have been pro˝table 
without interruption. Our progress also included signi˝cant growth in 
M&T™s capital ratios, a greatly improved liquidity pro˝le in anticipation of 

new regulatory requirements, and crucial enhancements to our compliance 
and operating processes. While doing so, we achieved a 17.79% net operating 
return on higher levels of average tangible common equity. 
In recognition of higher minimum regulatory capital requirements 
 for banks under the new Basel III rules, we remained focused on growing 
 our capital base. Our progress was substantial. We grew tangible common 
equity by $1.1 billion, an increase of 20%. At the same time, our Tier 1 
common capital ratio, a measure of capital that is of considerable importance 

to our regulators, improved to 9.22% at December 31, 2013. A year earlier it 
had been 7.57%. Over the course of last year, tangible book value per common 
Ivishare grew by 18% to $52.45. Diluted earnings per common share measured 
$8.20 last year, a 9% improvement from $7.54 in 2012. Our tally of net income 
in 2013 was $1.14 billion. ˚at record high earnings level grew by 11% from 
 $1.03 billion in 2012. Last year™s net income yielded returns on average assets 
and average common shareholders™ equity of 1.36% and 10.93%, respectively. 
 ˚e comparable ˝gures for 2012 were 1.29% and 10.96%.
During 2013, the largest component of net income Š that is, taxable-
equivalent net interest income Š rose to $2.70 billion from $2.62 billion in 

2012. ˚is 3% improvement was spurred by a $3.7 billion, or 5%, increase 
 in average earning assets. ˚e impact, however, was dampened by an eight 

basis point (hundredths of one percent) narrowing of the net interest margin, 
 or taxable-equivalent net interest income expressed as a percentage of average 
earning assets. Re˙ecting both changes in the composition of our earning 
assets and the continuing e˛ects of very low interest rates on yields from 
 loans, that key driver of pro˝tability was 3.65% in 2013, compared with 
 3.73% in the prior year. 
As the economy stabilized, the repayment performance of our lending 
relationships improved as well. Signi˝cantly, the level of nonaccrual loans Š 

those speci˝c customer obligations about which we have the most concerns 

regarding ultimate collectability Š fell sharply by 14% to $874 million at last 
year™s end. A year earlier we reported nonaccrual loans of $1.01 billion. As a 
percentage of outstanding loans at each year end, those ˝gures were 1.36% in 

2013 and 1.52% in 2012. Notwithstanding that improvement, nonaccrual loans 

still remain at elevated levels, both in dollar and percentage terms Š at least by 
our own historical standards.
vii
Re˙ecting an increase in the collection of balances that had previously 
been written o˛, net charge-o˛s of loans improved to $183 million in 2013, 
compared with $186 million in the preceding year. As a percentage of 
 average total loans outstanding, those net charge-o˛s were .28% last year, 
down from .30% in 2012. ˚at relative measure for each year remains among 
the lowest reported by the group of large regional banks that we consider to 
be our peers. Factoring in those performance statistics and information about 

speci˝c customers and the economy in general, we recorded a provision for 
loan losses last year of $185 million. In 2012, we had booked $204 million.
Income from noninterest sources rose 12% to $1.87 billion in 2013. A 
year earlier that ˝gure was $1.67 billion. Last year™s revenues re˙ect a series 
of investment initiatives we undertook to reduce risk in our balance sheet 
and boost our regulatory capital levels. To accomplish that, we divested 
our holdings of Visa and MasterCard common stock realizing pre-tax 

gains totaling $103 million and sold our $1.0 billion portfolio of higher-
risk, underperforming private label mortgage-backed securities for a net 
loss of $46 million. Ironically, given the relatively high-risk nature of those 

securities, the latter transaction also improved our risk-based regulatory 
capital ratios despite the incurrence of a loss. We reinvested the proceeds 
from those sales into lower-risk, highly liquid mortgage securities backed 

by the U.S. government. To further enhance our liquidity in advance of 
coming regulatory requirements, we securitized and sold $1.4 billion of 
automobile loans and converted $1.3 billion of residential mortgage loans 

into Government National Mortgage Association (ﬁGinnie Maeﬂ) mortgage-
backed securities, recognizing pre-tax gains of $63 million in the process. 
Higher trust revenues from our Wilmington Trust subsidiaries also 

contributed to the year-over-year growth in noninterest income.
viii
Noninterest expenses were $2.64 billion last year, an increase of 5% 
 from 2012. Factors contributing to that $127 million increase included an
 addition to our reserve for litigation, as well as investments made in 
strengthening our risk management and compliance functions, expanding 

our platform for mortgage servicing operations, and improving our operating 
infrastructure to enhance customer experience and internal processes. Each 
 of these investments will bene˝t us greatly in 2014 and beyond. 
WHAT
 KEPT US BUSY 
˚is past year represented a period of momentous progress and 
 investment for the future at M&T, developments tempered by some 

disappointments that bear discussion. Ultimately, strong earnings, as 
 well as growth in capital and liquidity, will enable us to continue to ful˝ll 
 our core mission: to provide crucial banking services to our customers 
 and communities. To that end, we have spent much time, e˛ort and money 
 this past year to enhance our infrastructure with the long-term view in 
mind Š be it our investment to meet heightened regulatory expectations, 
our continued focus on the New Jersey market, or improvement of customer 
service equipment and systems. Notwithstanding the combined e˛ect of 
 these initiatives on our e˜ciency ratio in the near term, we understand 
 them as essential in laying the foundation for future growth and sustained 

high performance.
Our accomplishments, however, were tempered by our inability to 
achieve one of our goals for 2013 Š successful completion of the merger with 

Paramus, New Jersey-based Hudson City Bancorp (ﬁHudson Cityﬂ). As readers 

of this message may be aware, in August 2012, M&T entered into a merger 
ixagreement with Hudson City. We believed then Š and continue to 
 believe Š that this acquisition makes good sense for both parties. We are 
con˝dent that it will, like our many partnerships, allow us to serve markets 
contiguous to those in which we already operate, and to do so in ways that 

customers and their communities will welcome. It is no secret, however, 
that in contrast to our many acquisitions which have received expeditious 
regulatory approval, this one has lagged. ˚at lag re˙ects the fact that the  

responsibilities of banks have changed since the domestic terrorist attacks, 
the 2008 ˝nancial crisis and a number of high pro˝le instances of money 
laundering.  ˚is changed environment calls on regulators to view plans for 

expansion, such as those which we have proposed, in a di˛erent light. Rest 
assured, we are very cognizant of our obligations in that regard. In June 
2013, we signed a Written Agreement with one of our key regulators, the 

Federal Reserve Bank of New York, without whose approval the Hudson 
City transaction cannot proceed. Our Agreement established the terms and 
timetable of enhanced compliance with anti-money laundering laws, rules 

and regulations, including the Bank Secrecy Act, otherwise referred to as 
BSA/AML. Working to realize the terms of that agreement became a central 
chapter in the story of 2013 for M&T.
BANK 
SECRECY
 AC
T/
ANTI-
MONEY LAUNDERING:
 Of course, the Bank 
Secrecy Act Š formally known as the Currency and Foreign Transactions 
Reporting Act Š is not a new law. Originally enacted in 1970, it was inspired 
by the need to ensure that organized crime was not using banks and our 

˝nancial system to ﬁlaunderﬂ the product of ill-gotten gains to make them 
appear to be legitimate transactions. Over time, however Š and especially as 
a result of the USA Patriot Act, passed post 9/11 Š BSA/AML was expanded 
xto be a mandate for banks to identify a wider array of suspicious activities, 
including non-U.S. transactions which could be the footprints of terrorist 
˝nancing, and to alert government about them.
One can think of this Š and at M&T we do Š as a partnership 
 between banking and law enforcement. ˚e stakes are high. According 
 to a study by the United Nations O˜ce on Drugs and Crime, based on 2009 

data, the proceeds from illegal ˝nancial activities around the world are 
estimated to be some $2.1 trillion, of which some $1.6 trillion is estimated 

to pass through the ˝nancial system. Perhaps one percent of the monies 
laundered are seized by government. In this context, regulators would clearly 
be remiss not to seek, aggressively, a heightened level of scrutiny on the 

part of ˝nancial institutions which could, absent such vigilance, help make 
wrongdoing possible. Such were the concerns which motivated Federal 
 Reserve sta˛ and which led to our Written Agreement to submit to the 
 Federal Reserve Bank an acceptable revised BSA/AML compliance program, 
 a ˝rst for us in over 30 years. ˚ough we had historically maintained a 
program which monitored suspicious ˝nancial transactions that could have 

been linked to illegal activities, in hindsight, we could have done 
 a better job of keeping pace with regulatory expectations and advances in 

technology in this area. 
˚e monitoring of individual transactions and reporting those 
which may call for further investigation is a far cry from the sort of robust 

compliance system we have undertaken to build. It is an understatement, 

indeed, to say that this is a project with a great many moving parts Š perhaps 
not at the level of ﬁhealthcare.gov,ﬂ but not far o˛. ˚e system we are building 
will have the capacity to identify those clients whose histories show them to 
xibe at highest risk for criminal behavior through review of up to 105 pieces 
of information for each account, ranging from ˝nancial activity to negative 
news searches. ˚is will enable us to better understand the risk, to determine 
whether they should continue to be permitted to do business with the bank, 

and also whether heightened scrutiny is warranted. Ultimately, we will have 
to ﬁrisk scoreﬂ each of our 3.7 million customers representing 5.4 million 
accounts Š and use our new processes to more e˛ectively monitor new 

customers, including those we inherit through acquisitions. ˚e scale of this 
undertaking is re˙ected in our hiring and investment levels. ˚rough the end 
of last year, our BSA/AML initiative has led to the hiring of 285 additional 

employees, 151 non-sta˛ consultants and the investment of $60 million.
To be clear, this is no one-time operation. M&T has always 
 had a strong culture of compliance. However, the e˛ort discussed entails 
 
a more formal and structured approach. Such change does not happen 

overnight Š and must not be imposed precipitously. Indeed, in keeping 
 with our thorough and prudent approach to everything we do, we are 
 making steady but careful change, based on an understanding that 
 
new protocols must be adopted and explained thoughtfully to ensure 
 they take root.
OVERALL 
RISK AND BALAN
CE SHEET 
MANAGEMENT 
AC
TIVITIES:
 Our 
BSA/AML initiative was not the only major regulatory compliance e˛ort. 
˚is past year we initiated an extensive e˛ort to prepare for compliance 
with the stress tests required by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform 
and Consumer Protection Act (ﬁDodd-Frankﬂ) and the Comprehensive 

Capital Analysis and Review, or CCAR process. CCAR was initiated by 
the Federal Reserve in 2011 in the wake of the ˝nancial crisis to facilitate 
xiiregulatory evaluation of the capital adequacy of the 19 largest U.S. bank 
holding companies, under normal and severely stressful macroeconomic 
scenarios. In 2014, the CCAR process was expanded to include all U.S. bank 
holding companies with total assets exceeding $50 billion, thus including 

M&T. While we have long-maintained a practice of assessing our capital levels 
in relation to the risks facing the ˝rm under a range of scenarios, the CCAR 
process involves a signi˝cant expansion in the volume of data and supporting 

quantitative analysis that is collected and reviewed by regulators, and thus has 
required signi˝cant investment, in both systems and talent. Coincident with 
our growth, we created a new Risk Committee of the Board, distinct from 

the Audit Committee, and a new position of Chief Risk O˜cer reporting to 
the Risk Committee and to me. With respect to capital, we have built a team 
of 69 professionals focused entirely on stress testing and capital planning, 

over half of whom have graduate degrees and four of whom have doctorates. 
Notwithstanding CCAR™s abundance of technical detail, complexity, and 
jargon, it has helped us develop a more sophisticated understanding of how 

M&T™s loan losses, income, and hence, capital, would fare under a variety of 
stressful scenarios, a number of which are constructed to be substantially more 
severe than the recent crisis. ˚is deepened understanding of our risk will 

serve as the foundation for the semi-annual stress test results to be provided 
 to the Federal Reserve.
˚e past year also saw us reposition our mortgage loan and securities 
portfolios to prepare for compliance with proposed liquidity rules based on 

guidelines under Basel III Š reforms developed by the Basel Committee 
on Banking Supervision to strengthen capital and liquidity globally in the 
banking sector. ˚ese directives mandate assumptions on how much of our 
xiiivarious types of customer deposits might be withdrawn over the course 
 of 21 days amidst a ˝nancial crisis. It is further required that M&T hold 
su˜cient liquid investments, with a preponderance of those backed by U.S. 
government guarantees, to cover the total deposit out˙ow calculated under 

prescribed assumptions. ˚ese mandates will require us to put aside some 
deposits previously used to make loans to businesses and individuals and, 
instead, redirect them to purchase the debt of our government or its agencies. 

˚e regulations also require that the cash in˙ows and out˙ows on our 
balance sheet be tracked and calculated daily. ˚is will require a signi˝cant 
investment in technology and new systems. As we re˙ect on the breadth 

and scope of the e˛ort dedicated to meeting the evolving requirements of 
regulation, new and existing, it is worth mentioning that our long-standing 
tabulation of the annual cost of regulatory compliance at M&T now stands at 

$265 million or 10.3% of our total operating expense, well over double what 
we spent a year ago, and nearly four times the amount spent in 2007.
Be it risk management or any other matter, we have long held the 
view that, at M&T, the proverbial ﬁbuckﬂ stopped with the CEO and the 
Management Committee. Put plainly, I understood my own role to include
 that as the chief risk o˜cer and expected other members of management 

to focus as keenly on risks, de˝ned broadly, as they did on their other 

responsibilities. ˚is discipline of owning risk, which has come to characterize 
M&T employees, we hope would not be foreign to those who have interacted 
with us in some capacity. As we expand our risk management culture 

to include quantitative modeling and other evolving risk management 
techniques, we are training the next generation of future leaders to ensure 
that they are prepared to understand this new formulaic approach to risk 
xiv
management, but without forgetting the value of good judgment. As we 
 have in the past, we are willing to invest the time and patience necessary 
 to build such a culture.
It will remain the case that we will not, even as we adopt new risk 
management and scoring systems, rely blindly or narrowly on formulas 
or algorithms for understanding what matters about our customers. In 
community banking there will always be a place for judgment, indeed 
 wisdom, in assessing the promise or potential pitfalls of individual 
transactions or prospective lines of business. In other words, as we move 
forward in line with what new regulations demand of a contemporary bank, 
we will not forget what has made us successful over the last 30 years Š our 

approach to navigating risk.
BE
YOND 
REGULATOR
Y MATTERS:
 While we have focused heavily on 
regulatory matters this past year, we have not neglected our core businesses 
and technology. We have signi˝cantly expanded our mortgage business 
through sub-servicing, which diversi˝es our revenue stream without 

increasing the kind of risks associated with servicing rights. ˚is business 
now services 579,694 individual loans, with $80.7 billion in total balances, 
more than 55% of which are sub-serviced. At the same time, we have grown 

organically in New Jersey, a market that we served in the past from our 
 New York City presence. M&T now has 171 employees serving customers in 

New Jersey, as well as $878 million in loans and $548 million in deposits there. 

Wilmington Trust has become an increasingly integrated and critical part of 

our business, as we invested in enhancing awareness among our existing and 
prospective customers of the services for which Wilmington Trust has been 
‚Renowned™ over the past 110 years.
xvOn the operations front, in an e˛ort to bene˝t our entire footprint, 
we are streamlining the processes to book and service our commercial and 
mortgage loans to increase e˜ciency, reduce processing times and enable 
 us to better serve our customers. M&T is upgrading its entire on-premise 
ATM network with 910 new machines that will have the ability to accept 
cash and checks without envelopes and will enable it to o˛er more rapid 
availability of funds. To combat increasingly sophisticated cyber criminals, 
 we continue to invest in upgrading our computer security systems to 
 ensure the con˝dentiality and integrity of the data that our customers have 
 entrusted with us. We have devoted time and resources in building an 

enterprise data warehouse and setting up a governance structure to manage 
data Š work that will continue in 2014. We will spend over $20 million to 
substantially upgrade our web banking platform and our mobile banking 

capabilities. M&T has invested some $60 million over the past three years 
 in data centers to serve its expanding business needs and to strengthen its 

back-up systems in case of disaster. In summary, we are not neglecting the 

needs of our businesses and our customers, while we go about the important 
work of enhancing infrastructure and reshaping the M&T culture for the 
 new banking environment.
BUILDING A STRONGER FINANCIAL SYSTEMM&T does not, of course, operate in a vacuum; the changing regulatory 

environment and the overall health and vitality of the ˝nancial services 
industry Š indeed, the American economy as a whole Š matter greatly to us. 

We are mindful of the fact that, in the aˆermath of an economic downturn 
that threatened the very foundation of our ˝nancial system, policy makers 
and regulatory agencies alike have joined to embrace rebuilding America™s 
xvi
economy and reputation such that it might regain its mantle of leadership 
around the globe Š a goal that we share. As we rebuild, indeed in order to 
 do so successfully, we must, however, not forget the culture that led to the 

crisis, lest we repeat those mistakes while shaping the future.
THE CULTURE OF 
THOSE 
DAYS:
 It is crucial to understand that, although 
 the failures and problems of a few select ˝rms appeared to spark that crisis, 
 the practices and values underlying them were long in building. While the 

banks and the bankers have been placed at the center of the storm, in many 

ways their behaviors were a manifestation of what might be characterized 
 as ﬁthe culture of those days,ﬂ which preceded the crisis. ˚e environment 
 in the 20 to 25 years leading up to those events which started in 2007 was 
 that of bustling entrepreneurism that sometimes came with unbridled risk-
taking and greed on the part of many constituents. ˚is era of growth, as we 
all can attest, produced many positives. Over the period 1981 through 2006, 

the stock market rose 11.6 times, unemployment reached its lowest level in 
nearly 31 years Š 3.8% in April 2000 Š and annual growth in Gross Domestic 
Product averaged 3.2%. However, in hindsight, it had some negative e˛ects 
 that went unnoticed Š or were overlooked Š until it was too late.
˚at culture of two and a half decades leading to the crisis represented 
 a departure from a long period Š for the better part of the 20th century 

prior to the 1980s Š in which prudent regulations established in the wake 

of the Great Depression shielded exuberant entrepreneurial spirits from 
ill-considered risk-taking. Legislative actions such as the Banking Act of 
1933, also known as Glass-Steagall, the Securities Act of 1933, the Securities 

Exchange Act of 1934 and the Investment Company Act of 1940 mark the 
xvii
beginning of this period. Each of these provided the foundation for economic 
growth and widely-shared prosperity for nearly 50 years.
It is this system which began to change rapidly in the early 1980s. By 
the time of the crisis, we had seen almost three decades of change. Examples 

of ﬁthe culture of those daysﬂ centered on innovation and creativity, where 

start-ups abounded, notably in high tech areas such as computing and the 
Internet that were only beginning to transform various industries and the way 
we work and entertain ourselves today. ˚is inspiration was fueled by stock 

options, which were not required to be recorded on the books and records of 
public companies as compensation, as if they were valueless, until 2005. ˚e 
major accounting ˝rms, providers of independent audit opinions, shopped 

creative tax avoidance schemes Š including those presented unsuccessfully to 
M&T Š that pushed the bounds of creativity relative to what one would ˝nd 
acceptable or even ethical by today™s standard. So buoyant was the atmosphere 

that, in approving a request by a money center bank to act as principal in a 
commodity price index swap with its customers, the O˜ce of the Comptroller 
of the Currency noted in 1987 that: ﬁ˚e business of banking has changed 

drastically over the 124 years since the National Bank Act was enacted to 
support a national currency, and no one expects banks today to be restricted 
to the practices that then constituted the business of banking.ﬂ
˚e encouragement of risk-seeking behavior continued, as government 
policies had the e˛ect of promoting risky trading practices reliant on 

borrowed capital Š whether through the CEO of one of the largest banks, 

and later Secretary of the Treasury, urging the Securities and Exchange 
Commission to relax leverage standards ﬁto allow for the more e˜cient use 
 of capital,ﬂ or a government-sponsored mortgage entity urging the origination 
xviii
and securitization of subprime mortgages. Noting that his ˝rm would begin 
buying lower-quality loans over the coming year and proceed further down 
the risk spectrum in 1999, the chairman of that agency said, ﬁWe will buy 
 all the loans we can that meet our parameters and can be priced pro˝tably.ﬂ 
 As Glass-Steagall fell in 1999, having theretofore prohibited banks from 

a˜liating with securities companies, the incumbent Treasury Secretary put 
forth an argument that, ﬁ˚is historic legislation will better enable American 

companies to compete in the new economy.ﬂ
All these changes created a self-feeding mechanism through exorbitant 
executive compensation that further fueled uninhibited risk-taking. Indeed, 

the executive pay packages for the Fortune top 50 companies during the 25 
years preceding the crisis increased 25 times.
THE 
PROGRESS OF 
REGULATION:
 Over the last ˝ve years we have, of course, 
taken signi˝cant steps as a nation to rein in ﬁthe culture of those daysﬂ and to 

mend the risk that our ˝nancial system posed. However, the task of writing 
regulations to implement the legislation passed in the aˆermath of the crisis is 

proving to be arduous and time consuming. ˚e severity of the crisis, pressure 
not to repeat the same mistakes with respect to known risks, the need to 
look around the corner for new ones, and ever-increasing public and political 

demands for stricter controls, has put regulating agencies in a position where 
extreme caution is essential. It is no surprise, then, that they are moving at 
a deliberate pace to complete the rules they have been tasked to develop. Of 

the 398 rulemaking requirements mandated by Dodd-Frank, just half, 50.5%, 
have been ˝nalized. Under these circumstances, the need that regulators feel 
to ensure that every ‚i™ is dotted and every ‚t™ is crossed, and that no quarter is 

seen to be given to the banks, is quite understandable.
xixWhile the rule writing process has clearly been slow, we are encouraged 
by many of the steps taken, and are concerned by some; but nonetheless, 
at M&T, we understand the spirit in which they have been implemented. 
Many of the rules that are emerging are likely to be bene˝cial to the goal 

of increasing the safety and soundness of the banking system. Forcing the 
˝nancial system to hold more capital will reduce the risk to taxpayers during 
future crises. ˚e Volcker rule is a step forward in limiting proprietary 

trading within the banking system. So called ﬁLiving Willsﬂ provide the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation with a road map for winding down 
failing institutions, hopefully reducing the cost to the insurance fund of 

future failures, with the potential to lower the deposit insurance premium, 
and thus decrease the impact on bank customers. Stress tests provide 
detailed information on the speci˝c vulnerabilities of individual institutions, 

allowing banks to calibrate more ˝nely their risk management practices and 
regulators to evaluate their ability to manage risk more accurately. Improved 
transparency on the terms of bank products and services enables customers 
 to make more informed decisions, and ultimately make them better and 
 safer for consumers.
So progress is being made, albeit slowly, that will bene˝t the ˝nancial 
industry and society for years to come. Some regulations, however, well 

intentioned as they undoubtedly are, will have rami˝cations that may 
diminish the impact of the good work to date, or worse still, create new 
problems in the future. For instance, certain rules appear to shiˆ risk outside 

the banking sector rather than create a mechanism to control them. Basel III 
capital rules that essentially cap the amount of mortgage servicing rights that 
can be held by a regulated ˝nancial institution will likely push servicing away 
xxfrom a well-controlled banking sector toward unregulated entities, including 
companies such as IBM. Hedge funds are becoming the largest landlords 
in the country, either through their ownership of mortgages via securities 
shed by banks to meet capital requirements or through outright ownership 

of properties, scooped up at bargain basement prices, now being rented and 
waiting for a chance to ﬁ˙ipﬂ when prices stabilize. Some new mandates 
have forced banks to be wary of even attempting to serve the unbanked 

and the underbanked, quite possibly leaving the most vulnerable and least 
˝nancially literate sections of our society out of the very environment we seek 
to strengthen. One wonders how pushing customers outside the regulated 

banking sector to unregulated players helps to protect them. It is concerning to 
observe that the shadow banking sector, which played such an important role in 
fostering the last crisis, is prospering, albeit, perhaps, in some di˛erent aspects.
Such are the complications that emerge from the pressures created by the 
tight timelines of legislation, the expectations of elected o˜cials and the public 
at large, and the need for new regulation to e˛ect change with a minimum of 
unintended consequences. We well recognize that, in this sort of environment, 

it is no easy task for supervisory agencies to craˆ rules that are both ˝nely- 
 tuned and achieve their overriding purposes Š to increase the safety and 

soundness of the ˝nancial system without compromising its vitality. We hope 

that we, industry and regulators alike, will have the opportunity to revisit 
some of these rules to re˝ne them for the better Š maximizing the intended 
bene˝ts while minimizing the unintended consequences. Yet even as we take 

stock of the wave of new regulation, there remains un˝nished business that 
must be addressed. I think here of speci˝c practices which were part of that 
past culture and help account for ongoing public distaste for the ˝nancial 
xxiindustry, which has persisted in the aˆermath of the ˝nancial crisis. My 
concern is focused on two areas: continued trading in the banking system 
 and executive compensation in corporate America.
TRADING:
 In years past, this Message has focused on the dangers to the 
economy, and to society at large, from trading and how banks strayed from 
their core function of safeguarding savings, ˝nancing home ownership, and 
providing the capital to expand commerce and industry. Ultimately, some 

stark truths became apparent about risks built up from ﬁthe culture of those 
daysﬂ and the mutual reinforcement of excessive compensation and speculative 
activities. ˚e impact on our industry in terms of lost integrity and damaged 

reputation has been considerable Š not to mention the tangible e˛ect of 
prosecutions and ˝nes levied on once well-respected institutions. By our 
estimates, the six largest U.S. bank holding companies by assets, the ﬁBig Six,ﬂ 

have paid $82 billion in ˝nes, sanctions and legal actions in seven di˛erent 
countries over the past ten years. Steps taken by regulators are attempting to 
curb trading in the banking sector. However, it continues to be a signi˝cant 

part of the business model in our industry, especially for the Big Six. For the 
˝rst three quarters of 2013, trading generated $42.6 billion in revenue for them, 
accounting for 91.0% of such revenue for the whole industry. Trading-related 

activities ranged from 2.0% to 41.6% of all revenues for those institutions. In 
the past year alone, these ˝rms have been cited 526 times byˇ
˛e Wall Street 
Journal
ˇandˇ
˛e New York Times
 in articles discussing alleged questionable 
activities by them, a proxy for the negative media attention they have attracted 

around the world.
˚e industry™s extension into the physical commodities business Š 
including ownerships in metal warehouses, oil tankers, power plants, natural 
xxiigas pipelines, coal mines, wind turbines, deep water exploration and uranium 
supplies Š has grabbed the attention of the media and regulatory agencies 
alike. As one looks at the sheer breadth of banks™ ownership of such assets and 
operations, one is inevitably leˆ to wonder how they ˝t into the central role of 

˝nancial intermediation.
Extension into these fringe activities did not happen overnight. ˚e 
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act loosened the restrictions on the banking industry 

in 1999. In 2003, the regulations permitted some commercial banks to handle 

physical commodities. Today, the large banks, by our count, have ownership 
in: 186 storage warehouses, 100 oil tankers, 81 power plants, 61 transport 
terminals, and about 14% of total U.S. natural gas pipeline miles, to mention 

just a few. Such practices give rise to potential for con˙ict of interest and 
market manipulation due to an excessive concentration of market power. 
Consider a few implications of such overextension in owning and controlling 

portions of the supply chain that transitions a bank beyond the role of 
˝nancing merchants into one of being a merchant itself.
Last year, a consumer beverage company Š a user of aluminum Š
 provided testimony to the Senate Committee on Banking, Financial 
Institutions and Consumer Protection about bottlenecks arti˝cially limiting 

supply. Of the 37 Detroit-based storage sites that control 70% of the available 
aluminum in North America, 29 are owned by a large U.S. bank. A media 
investigation pointed out that delivery times out of the warehouses have 

increased from six weeks to 16 months since the bank bought the warehouses 

in 2010, coincident with the fact that the institution earns 48 cents per ton, 
 per day, for storing the metal. It is little wonder that industrial users are 
 xxiiioutraged by bank ownership of parts of the supply chain for commodities. 
When put in this light, it seems directly at odds with the interests of 
 producers and, in turn, consumers.
In a case that goes beyond banking, a prominent expert in the tire 
industry in 2011 called for a discussion on speculation in raw materials at a 

Group of Twenty (ﬁG20ﬂ) meeting, and noted that speculative activities by 
˝nanciers in industrial markets drove shortages and price volatility at the 
expense of ˝nancing the real economy. He observed a quadrupling of prices 
 for natural rubber during a time frame when recessionary pressures on the 
auto industry that uses more than 65% of rubber production would have 
suggested a moderation in pricing. Indeed, in 2010 the trading volume of 

natural rubber equated to 156 times the annual industrial consumption. 
 Such an imbalance between industrial use and speculative trading volume 

naturally leads to price volatility, which is seldom desirable for manufacturers.
Students of ˝nancial history will be aware that speculative trading in 
 the broader sense takes place beyond the con˝nes of the banking industry 

and has a dark past with no bounds on the extent to which players will go 
to extract pro˝ts. ˚e U.S. experienced one of the most severe and extensive 
droughts in at least 25 years between May and August of 2012, which led to 

shortages and in turn to increases in the prices of corn, soybeans, and other 
 inputs in the food supply chain. During the midst of this crisis, a director at a 

major non-bank trading house remarked on an investor conference call, ﬁ˚e 

environment is a good one, high prices, a lot of volatility, a lot of dislocation, 

tightness, a lot of arbitrage opportunities.ﬂ ˚e reaction from a former United 
Nations employee Š an expert in global food trade was that they are ﬁmaking 
xxiv
money from other people™s misery caused by the drought.ﬂ ˚is institution, the 
world™s second largest public commodity trading conglomerate, with a 60% 
market share in zinc, 50% in copper and 22% in aluminum, was founded by one 
of history™s most successful American commodities traders, and a fugitive who 

was on the ﬁFBIs most wanted list.ﬂ In 1983 he was charged with 65 criminal 
counts including trading oil with Iran during the American hostage crisis 
and tax fraud Š ﬁthe biggest tax evasion case in U.S. history.ﬂ ˚is company 

has been implicated in numerous controversial practices around the world, 
allegations including accounting manipulation to evade taxes in Zambia, 
kickbacks within the United Nations oil-for-food program in Iraq, human 

rights violations and environmental pollution in Colombia and the Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, as well as aluminum price ˝xing in the United States. 
One wonders how di˛erent are such acts from those of terrorist ˝nancing, 

which banks have been deputized to help detect and prevent.
Examples such as the aforementioned raise the question of whether 
we can have a safer ˝nancial system when these types of institutions exist, 

inside or outside the system. Policy makers face di˜cult choices when trying 

to decide where to draw the boundaries of the ˝nancial system. However, 
irrespective of the decisions they make, banks have to be very cognizant of 
the contents of our balance sheet lest we risk losing our position as stewards 

of the ˝nancial industry. When participants in our industry choose to engage 
in speculative activities that produce ˝nancial gain by competing with 
institutions with a long history of questionable behavior, guilt by association is 

only logical. It does little to convey the position of strength and stability that 
the U.S. ˝nancial system seeks to achieve. Such speculative trading activities, 
xxvwhether inside or outside the banking industry, center on making pro˝ts from 
the market by exploiting visibility into customer order ˙ows, taking advantage 
of market imperfections, obscuring otherwise transparent market prices, and 
controlling parts of the commerce supply chain. Participants in such activities 

bene˝t from longer delivery delays, higher prices, volatility and shortages. 
What manufacturer or supplier of goods to the real economy does not seek 
predictable supplies, faster delivery times, and stable prices that ultimately 

bene˝t their customers? Su˜ce it to say that speculative trading activities are at 
odds with commerce, the facilitation of which is the very function of banking 
Š not to mention the bad publicity it brings at a time when we are trying to 

rebuild trust in our banking system. Limiting such activities and unwarranted 
ventures by banks would do much to make the banking system safer and, 
equally important, more reputable.
Rebuilding the reputation of our ˝nancial system and of corporate 
America at a broader level, however, requires us to focus our attention on 
another matter. While much of the excesses of the past generation have 
 been toned down or have gone away, one very visible and odious aspect 
 of that earlier culture continues unabated today. Indeed, far from waning, 
 it appears to be going from strength to strength Š executive compensation 
 in corporate America.
EXE
CUTIVE COMPENSATION:
 I have written in the past about the 
 excessive compensation of the CEOs of the largest banks. However, it has 
become clear to me that the issue of in˙ated pay packages does not lie solely 
or even primarily with the large banks. Rather, the problem is endemic to 
corporate America. Indeed, perusing a list of company executives ranked 
 xxvi
by compensation, one has to get past 50 ˝rms before one ˝nds the CEO 
 of a bank holding company. Non-bank executive remuneration has grown 
faster than that for banking counterparts over the past thirty years, though 
they have both risen at an astounding pace.
˚irty years ago, in 1983, the average pay of the leaders of the six largest 
banks was 40 times the average of all U.S. workers, while the multiple for the 
executives of the non-bank Fortune 50 companies was only slightly less at 38 
times. Since then, large bank CEO compensation has grown geometrically 

compared to that of the average worker and now stands at 208 times, while 
the non-bankers average 224 times. Put another way, the average pay for all 
American workers has grown 2.9 times over the past 30 years, while that of the 

bank executives grew 15.4 times and the non-bankers by 17.4 times. In other 
words, when the average worker was earning $23,556, and the top corporate 
leaders were earning $888,164, compensation packages were not media events 

like they are today with $10 to $50 million paychecks; and it is not unusual 
or surprising to see such salaries covered widely in the press. Consultants, 
engaged by boards of directors to advise on pay packages, are only too happy 

to justify this sky high compensation through so-called peer group analysis.
Public scrutiny is exacerbated by the earnings of hedge fund managers 
on Wall Street, where the top 25 averaged $565.6 million and the top 10 
averaged over $1 billion each in 2012. While hedge funds are not banks, the 
man or woman on the street lumps them together, which increases their 

antipathy toward our industry, particularly when these huge earnings are 

placed alongside the ˝nes and sanctions the banks have incurred.
xxvii
In 2012, one American chief executive had a total compensation package 
of $96 million while another, whose company had yet to make any money, 
earned $78 million. A third has a pension package of $159 million, which was 
recently reported by 
˛e Wall Street Journal
 to be ﬁby far the largest pension 
on ˝le for a current executive of a public company, and almost certainly the 
largest ever in corporate America.ﬂ ˚ese kinds of ˝gures are unfathomable 
to the average citizen. One can clearly see the American social fabric is 

at stake; outsized compensation based on limited personal risk but great 
public exposure invites resentment and not unjusti˝ed populist anger. ˚e 
compensation practices of corporate America cry out for correction, preferably 

through the actions of executives and boards of directors themselves.
We ignore the palpable public outrage over executive compensation and 
its role in worsening income inequality Š the divide between rich and poor Š 

at our peril. Our so-called recovery since the crisis has done little for ordinary 

citizens. According to the latest U.S. Census Bureau report, there were 46.5 
million people living in poverty, representing a poverty rate of 15% Š
 some 2.5% higher than in 2007. Since the beginning of the crisis, 4.8 million 
homes have been foreclosed. Even today, two million families are seriously 
delinquent on their mortgages.
When one contrasts these harsh realities with exorbitant executive 
compensation, which omnipresent media reports regularly highlight as a 
symbol of excess, it is easy to understand the widespread public resentment. 
 It is this sentiment that provides fuel for our elected o˜cials and policy 
 makers to call for more legislation and regulation, which is placing a costly 
burden on the engines of growth for our economy.
xxviii
As we strive to create the framework for the safest, most stable ˝nancial 
system in the world, we must be mindful of the importance of protecting 
the ˝scal interests of taxpayers as well as the dynamism and entrepreneurial 
spirit of our economy. In this regard, a measure of self-restraint on corporate 

compensation would seem to be a small price to pay.
LOOKING 
FORWARD:
 ˚e past year was one in which substantial progress was 
made toward building a stronger ˝nancial system. ˚e market realized that 
the American banking industry, including M&T, had not only survived the 
recent crisis that frightened people the world over, but had come out of it with 

stronger balance sheets and income statements than ever before. In many ways, 
the cumulative success to date was due to the e˛orts of the regulatory agencies, 
who had worked diligently to create a new paradigm for the industry. Looking 

ahead, reconciling competing societal interests to create the strongest global 
˝nancial system must be understood as far more art than science Š likely 
requiring an iterative process that allows ˝nancial institutions and regulators 

to understand what may need to be modi˝ed in light of the e˛ects, intended 
and unintended, of what has already been enacted.
Achieving this common goal will take the e˛orts of the best and 
brightest minds Š including legislators, regulators, and bankers. However, the 

post-crisis era has created signi˝cant public distaste toward Wall Street and the 
banking industry in general, due to the enormous sanctions and ˝nes imposed 

on a few institutions, as well as the excessive compensation of the leadership 

of corporate America. Unless a modicum of reason is brought to bear on the 
remaining elements of what I have referred to as ﬁthe culture of those days,ﬂ it 
will be di˜cult to get past the current rancor of public debate and widespread 
xxixpublic ill will, and allow bankers to once again take their place as productive 
members, indeed, leaders of their communities.
To move forward we need to transcend the current state of a˛airs, one in 
which lobbying, on the one hand, and ˝nes and sanctions on the other, are the 

main way bankers and regulators communicate. To progress past this period 

of reparations it may be time for banks, large and small, to come to peace with 
regulators, and for legislators of all political persuasion to stop criticizing the 
practices of another era. Banks are too important a part of our ˝nancial fabric 

and have greatly facilitated the positive aspects of society which we enjoy today. 
Taking the industry as a whole, bankers remain members of one of the most 
ethical professions in our towns and villages across the country, supporting the 

quality of life in our communities.
Speaking of communities, aˆer 30 years it is at long last a pleasure to 
report on what may be signs of a renaissance in Bu˛alo.
THE M&T MODEL AND BUFFALO
 In years past, we have written oˆen in this space about M&T™s business 
 model. It is one in which we still believe deeply Š one based on understanding 
and serving our local communities, on sound underwriting and prudent 
lending and, indeed, on opportunistic growth, though never for its own sake. 

It is an approach which has served our customers, our shareholders, our 

employees and our communities well. As part of that community banking 
model, M&T has long been committed to playing a catalytic role in the 
restoration of growth and prosperity in Bu˛alo, New York State™s second-

largest city, and its home since its founding in 1856. In this regard, it is 
especially gratifying to be able to report that signs of such renewed growth 
can, indeed, be found in Bu˛alo. 
xxxNotably, the region has made signi˝cant progress in increasing 
household income and spending power relative to other areas of the country. 
From 2007 to 2012, Bu˛alo™s per capita personal income rose by 8.3%, the 
second largest gain among the 100 most populous U.S. metropolitan areas, 

which collectively recorded a one percent decrease in income over the same 
period. ˚is improvement can be traced to employment levels and real estate 
values that did not contract as much during the so-called Great Recession as in 

harder hit parts of the country.
Simply put, Bu˛alo has played the role of ﬁtortoiseﬂ to the nation™s ﬁhare,ﬂ 
making up ground on regions that had previously grown at a much faster pace. 

In so doing, western New York has made itself more attractive to investors. 

More than $1.7 billion in new construction is underway or will soon break 
ground in the Bu˛alo area, much of it located within the City itself. Projects 
range from the construction of a new medical campus to redevelopment of the 

Bu˛alo waterfront and, most encouragingly, the rehabilitation and repurposing 
of older existing buildings into rental housing, attracting new residents and 
vitality to the urban core. Ninety percent of the construction projects involve 

private money, re˙ecting a strong vote of con˝dence in Bu˛alo™s future. 
We would hope that our own growth and pro˝tability Š the success of 
the M&T Model Š has played a role. We have grown from the fourth-largest 
bank in Bu˛alo three decades ago to become the city™s largest. Excluding 
not-for-pro˝t organizations and temporary-sta˜ng agencies, we are now the 

largest private sector employer in the city. Indeed, our growth has led our 

Bu˛alo workforce to increase by 938 just in the year past. As a result, we now 
own or lease 22% of the city of Bu˛alo™s class A o˜ce space. ˚is in a city in 
xxxiwhich the vacancy rate for class A space is 24%. Beyond the central business 
district, we occupy additional space including a state-of-the-art data center to 
be commissioned in 2014, which will house ﬁterabytesﬂ of data equivalent to 
four hundred times the books housed in the Library of Congress Š (though 

our data might not have quite the same level of historic signi˝cance!). It is our 
goal to continue to be, as we believe we have been, a contributing force to the 
resurgence of Bu˛alo, and the growth and success of all of the communities in 

which we live and work and which we serve.
A PERSONAL NOTEIt is with a heavy heart that I must take special note in this Message of an 

important change in the management ranks of M&T. As we announced in 
January, Michael P. Pinto has resigned his positions as a Director and Vice 
Chairman of the Board, because of a serious medical condition. Listing the 

many key roles he has played at the bank, as he rose from our ˝rst class of 
MBA graduates to become Chief Financial O˜cer and then CEO of the Mid-
Atlantic Division, does not begin to provide a sense of how crucial a colleague 

he has been for me personally as the bank has grown and changed. He 
brought to us the wisdom and experience gained in settings as wide-ranging 
as New Delhi (that part of India in which he was raised), Zambia (where he 

was a chartered accountant) and the Wharton School of the University of 
Pennsylvania, from which he came directly to M&T. In our Management 
Committee meetings, Mike could always be counted on to push the group to 
confront di˜cult questions that no one else may have wanted to ask. It was 
his acuity in seeing problems in di˛erent ways that allowed us, on countless 

occasions, to develop better solutions. We will continue to rely on his insight 
xxxiiand his acumen and value the chance to continue working together as 
colleagues and friends, despite his present limited day to day role with the 
Bank as Vice Chairman. From the bottom of my heart, I wish the best for 
Mike and his family.
Robert G. Wilmers
 Chairman of the Board
 and Chief Executive O˜cer
February 21, 2014
xxxiiiOFFICERSRobert G. Wilmers
 Chairman of the Board 
 
and Chief Executive O˜cer
Mark J. Czarnecki
 President and Chief 
 
Operating O˜cer
Robert J. Bojdak
 Executive Vice President 
 
and Chief Credit O˜cer
Stephen J. Braunscheidel
 Executive Vice President
Atwood Collins III
 Executive Vice President
William J. Farrell II
 Executive Vice President
Richard S. Gold
 Executive Vice President
Brian E. Hickey
 Executive Vice President
René F. Jones
 Executive Vice President 
 
and Chief Financial O˜cer
Darren J. King
 Executive Vice President
Gino A. Martocci
Executive Vice President
Kevin J. Pearson
 Executive Vice President 
Michele D. Trolli
 Executive Vice President and 
 
Chief Information O˜cer
Donald K. Truslow
 Executive Vice President
 and Chief Risk O˜cer
D. Scott N. Warman
 Executive Vice President
 and Treasurer
John L. D™Angelo
 Senior Vice President 
 
and General Auditor
Drew J. P˝rrman
 Senior Vice President 
 
and General Counsel
Michael R. Spychala
 Senior Vice President 
 
and Controller
DIRECTORSRobert G. Wilmers
 Chairman of the Board 
 
and Chief Executive O˜cer
Jorge G. Pereira
 Vice Chairman of the Board 

Private Investor
Brent D. Baird
 Private Investor
C. Angela Bontempo
 Former President and 
 
Chief Executive O˜cer
 
Saint Vincent Health System
Robert T. Brady
 Former Executive Chairman 

Moog Inc.
T. Je˛erson Cunningham III
 Former Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive O˜cer
 
Premier National Bancorp, Inc.
Mark J. Czarnecki
 President and Chief 
 
Operating O˜cer
Gary N. Geisel
 Former Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive O˜cer
 
Provident Bankshares Corporation
John D. Hawke, Jr.
 Partner
 Arnold & Porter LLP
Patrick W.E. Hodgson
 President
 Cinnamon Investments Limited
Richard G. King
 Chairman of the 
 Executive Committee
 
Utz Quality Foods, Inc.
Melinda R. Rich
 Vice Chairman
 Rich Products Corporation 
 
and President 
 
Rich Entertainment Group
Robert E. Sadler, Jr.
 Former President and 
 
Chief Executive O˜cer
 
M&T Bank Corporation
Herbert L. Washington
 President
 H.L.W. Fast Track, Inc.
M&T BANK CORPORATION
Officers and Directorsxxxiv
M&T BANK Officers and DirectorsOFFICERSRobert G. Wilmers
 Chairman of the Board 
 
and Chief Executive O˜cer
Mark J. Czarnecki
 President and Chief 
 
Operating O˜cer
Vice Chairmen
René F. Jones
 Kevin J. Pearson
 
Michael P. Pinto
Executive Vice Presidents
Robert J. Bojdak
 Stephen J. Braunscheidel
 
Atwood Collins III
 John F. Cook
 William J. Farrell II 
 
Richard S. Gold
 
Mark A. Graham
 
Brian E. Hickey
 
Darren J. King
 
Gino A. Martocci
 
Michele D. Trolli 
 
Donald K. Truslow
 
D. Scott N. Warman
Senior Vice Presidents
Je˛rey L. Barbeau
 John M. Beeson, Jr.
 
Keith M. Belanger
 
Deborah A. Bennett
 
Peter M. Black
 
Daniel M. Boscarino
 
Ira A. Brown
 
Daniel J. Burns
 Noel Carroll
 Mark I. Cartwright
 David K. Chamberlain
 
August J. Chiasera
 
Janet M. Coletti
 
Jerome W. Collier
 
Cynthia L. Corliss
 
R. Joe Crosswhite
 
John L. D™Angelo
 
Peter G. D™Arcy
 
Scott E. Dagenais
 
Carol A. Dalton
 
Ayan DasGupta
 
Shelley C. Drake
 
Michael A. Drury
 
Gary D. Dudish
 Donald I. Dussing, Jr.
 
Peter J. Eliopoulos
 
Ralph W. Emerson, Jr.
 Je˛rey A. Evershed
 Tari L. Flannery
 
James M. Frank
 
R. S. Fraundorf
 
Timothy E. Gillespie
 
Robert S. Graber
 
Sean Gray
 
Sam Guerrieri, Jr.
 
Harish A. Holla
 
Neil Hosty
 
Carl W. Jordan
 Michael T. Keegan
 
Nicholas P. Lambrow
 
Michele V. Langdon
 
Robert G. Loughrey
 
Alfred F. Luhr III
 
Rex P. Macey
 
Christopher R. Madel
 
Paula Mandell
 Louis P. Mathews, Jr.
 
Richard J. McCarthy
 
Donna McClure
 
Mark J. Mendel
 Christopher J. Minnich
 Paul D. Moore
 
Michael S. Murchie
 
Allen J. Naples
 
Drew J. P˝rrman
 
Paul T. Pitman
 Michael J. Quinlivan
 
Christopher D. Randall
 
Daniel J. Ripienski
 
John P. Rumschik
 
Charles Russella, Jr.
 
Mahesh Sankaran
 
Jack D. Sawyer
 
Jean-Christophe Schroeder
 
Susan F. Sciarra
 
Douglas A. Sheline
 
Michael J. Shryne
 Sabeth Siddique
 Glenn R. Small
 
Philip M. Smith
 
Michael R. Spychala
 
Kemp C. Stickney
 
John R. Taylor
 
Michael J. Todaro
 
Christopher E. Tolomeo
 
Patrick M. Trainor
 
Michael P. Wallace
 
Linda J. Weinberg
 Je˛rey A. Wellington
DIRECTORSRobert G. Wilmers
 Chairman of the Board
 
and Chief Executive O˜cer
Jorge G. Pereira
 Vice Chairman of the Board
 
Private Investor
Brent D. Baird
 Private Investor
C. Angela Bontempo
 Former President and 
 
Chief Executive O˜cer
 
Saint Vincent Health System
Robert T. Brady
 Former Executive Chairman
 
Moog Inc.
T. Je˛erson Cunningham III
 Former Chairman of the Board 
 
and Chief Executive O˜cer
 
Premier National Bancorp, Inc.
Mark J. Czarnecki
 President and Chief 
 
Operating O˜cer
Gary N. Geisel
 Former Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive O˜cer
 
Provident Bankshares Corporation
John D. Hawke, Jr.
 Partner
 Arnold & Porter LLP
Patrick W.E. Hodgson
 President 
 Cinnamon Investments Limited
Richard G. King
 Chairman of the 
 
Executive Committee
 
Utz Quality Foods, Inc.
Melinda R. Rich
 
Vice Chairman 
 
Rich Products Corporation 
 and President
 Rich Entertainment Group 
Robert E. Sadler, Jr.
 Former President and 
 
Chief Executive O˜cer
 
M&T Bank Corporation
Herbert L. Washington
 President
 H.L.W. Fast Track, Inc.
xxxvREGIONAL PRESIDENTSJe˛rey A. Wellington
 Bu˚alo
Allen J. Naples
 Central New York
Stephen A. Foreman
 Central Pennsylvania
Robert H. Newton, Jr.
 Central Virginia
Nicholas P. Lambrow
 Delaware
August J. Chiasera
 Greater Baltimore 
 
and Chesapeake
Peter M. Black
Greater Washington 
 and Northern Virginia
Michael T. Keegan
Hudson Valley North 
 and Albany
Peter G. D™Arcy
 New York City 
Philip H. Johnson
 Northern Pennsylvania 
Ira A. Brown
 Philadelphia 

Daniel J. Burns
 Rochester
Peter G. Newman
 Southern New York
R. Joe Crosswhite
 Southern Pennsylvania
 Paula Mandell 
Tarrytown
DIRECTORS ADVISORY COUNCILSN˜˚ Y˛˝˙ Sˆˇˆ˜
Central New York Division
Aminy I. Audi
James V. Breuer
Carl V. Byrne
 Mara Charlamb
 Richard W. Cook
 
James A. Fox
Richard R. Gri˜th
Robert H. Linn

Nicholas O. Matt
 Margaret O™Connell
 M. Catherine Richardson
Richard J. Zick
Hudson Valley Division
Elizabeth P. Allen
Kevin M. Bette
Nancy E. Carey Cassidy
Edward vK. Cunningham, Jr.
T. Je˛erson Cunningham III
Michael H. Graham

Christopher Madden
William Murphy
˚omas D. O™Connor, Jr.

Lewis J. Ruge
Albert K. Smiley
Archibald A. Smith III
 
˚omas G. Struzzieri
Charles C. Tallardy III

Peter Van Kleeck
Alan Yassky
Jamestown Division
Sebastian A. Baggiano
John R. Churchill
 Steven A. Godfrey
Joseph C. Johnson
Stan Lundine

Kim Peterson
Allen Short
 
Michael J. Wellman
New York City/Long Island 
Division
Earle S. Altman
Jay I. Anderson

Brent D. Baird
Louis Brause
Patrick J. Callan
Lloyd M. Goldman
Peter Hauspurg

Gary Jacob
 Maidad Rabina
 Don M. Randel
Michael D. Sullivan
Alair A. Townsend
Rochester Division
William A. Buckingham
 R. Carlos Carballada
Timothy D. Fournier
 Jocelyn Goldberg-Schaible
 Laurence Kessler

Anne M. Kress
Joseph M. Lobozzo II
James H. Norman
 
Mark S. Peterson
Carolyn A. Portanova
John K. Purcell

Victor E. Salerno
Derace L. Scha˛er
Albert J. Simone

Amy L. Tait
Linda Cornell Weinstein
Southern New York Division
George Akel, Jr.
 Daniel Babcock
Lee P. Bearsch
Richard J. Cole
 
Albert Nocciolino
Lawrence J. Schorr
 Robert R. Sprole
 
Terry R. Wood
Pˇ/
 Mˇ˝/ Vˇ /
 Wˆ Vˇ
Baltimore-Washington 
 Division
˚omas S. Bozzuto
 Daniel J. Canzoniero
 
Robert A. Chrencik
 Scott E. Dorsey
 Kevin R. Dunbar
 
Gary N. Geisel
 John F. Jaeger
 Warner P. Mason
 ˚omas R. Mullen
 
John H. Phelps
 Marc B. Terrill
Central 
 Pennsylvania Division
Christopher M. Cicconi
Mark X. DiSanto
 Rolen E. Ferris
Scott A. Heintzelman

Martin G. Lane, Jr.
Ronald M. Leitzel

John P. Massimilla
 Craig Nitterhouse
 
Ivo V. Otto III 
 William F. Rothman
Lynn C. Rotz 
 
Herbert E. Sandifer

John D. Sheridan
Frank R. Sourbeer
 Daniel K. Sunderland
 Sondra Wolfe Elias
Central Virginia Division
Toni R. Ardabell
 Otis L. Brown
 Robert J. Clark
 Daniel Loˆus
 
Bart H. Mitchell
 Robert Wayne Ohly, Jr.
 Michael Patrick

Charles W. Payne
 Brian R. Pitney
 Frank L. Robinson

Katheryn E. Surface Burks
 Debbie L. Sydow
Chesapeake Upper 
 Shore Division
Richard Bernstein
Hugh E. Grunden

William W. McAllister, Jr.
Lee McMahan
Chesapeake Lower 
 Shore Division
Michael G. Abercrombie, Jr.
John H. Harrison
John M. McClellan

James F. Morris
John M. Stern
Eastern 
 Pennsylvania Division
A. Joseph Antanavage
Paul J. Datte
Richard E. Fehr

Steven I. Field
Roy A. Heim
Donald E. Jacobs
Joseph H. Jones, Jr.
David C. Laudeman

Eric M. Mika
Stephen M. Moyer
Robert P. Powell

Gerald A. Ravitz
Larry A. Wittig
Northeast 
 Mid-Atlantic Division
Richard Alter
Clarence C. Boyle, Jr.

Nicole A. Funk
John N. Kunkel
James Lambdin

˚omas C. Mottley
Paul T. Muddiman
John D. Pursell, Jr.
John ˚omas Sadowski, Jr.
Kimberly L. Wagner
Craig A. Ward
Northeastern 
 Pennsylvania Division
Richard S. Bishop
Christopher L. Borton
Maureen M. Bu˛alino

Stephen N. Clemente
Robert Gill
˚omas F. Torbik
Murray U˘erg
Northern 
 Pennsylvania Division
Sherwin O. Albert, Jr.
Je˛rey A. Cerminaro
Cli˛ord R. Coldren
James E. Douthat
Charlene A. Friedman

Steven P. Johnson
Kenneth R. Levitzky
Robert E. More
John D. Rinehart
J. David Smith

Donald E. Stringfellow
Paul M. Walison
Philadelphia Division
Steven A. Berger
Edward M. D™Alba
 
Linda Ann Galante
 Ruth S. Gehring
 Eli Kahn
 
Mark Nicoletti
Robert N. Reeves, Jr.
Robert W. Sorrell
Steven L. Sugarman
Christina Wagoner
Western 
 Pennsylvania Division
Jodi L. Cessna
Paul I. Detweiler III

Philip E. Devorris
Michael A. Fiore
Joseph A. Grappone

Daniel R. Lawruk
Gerald E. Murray
Robert F. Pennington
Joseph S. Sheetz
William T. Ward
J. Douglas Wolf 
M&T BANK Regional Management and Directors Advisory Councils
xxxvi
SE
C FORM 10-K
UNITEDSTATESSECURITIESANDEXCHANGECOMMISSION
Washington,D.C.20549
Form10-K
ÍANNUALREPORTPURSUANTTOSECTION13OR15(d)
OFTHESECURITIESEXCHANGEACTOF1934
ForthefiscalyearendedDecember31,2013
or‘TRANSITIONREPORTPURSUANTTOSECTION13OR15(d)
OFTHESECURITIESEXCHANGEACTOF1934
Commissionfilenumber1-9861
M&TBANKCORPORATION
(Exactnameofregistrantasspecifiedinitscharter)
NewYork16-0968385
(Stateofincorporation)(I.R.S.EmployerIdentificationNo.)
OneM&TPlaza,Buffalo,NewYork14203
(Addressofprincipalexecutiveoffices)(ZipCode)
Registrant™stelephonenumber,includingareacode:
716-842-5445SecuritiesregisteredpursuanttoSection12(b)oftheAct:
TitleofEachClass
NameofEachExchangeonWhichRegistered
CommonStock,$.50parvalueNewYorkStockExchange
5%CumulativePerpetualPreferredStock,
SeriesA,$1,000liquidationpreferencepershare
NewYorkStockExchange
5%CumulativePerpetualPreferredStock,
SeriesC,$1,000liquidationpreferencepershare
NewYorkStockExchange
WarrantstopurchasesharesofCommonStock
(expiringDecember23,2018)
NewYorkStockExchange
SecuritiesregisteredpursuanttoSection12(g)oftheAct:
8.234%CapitalSecuritiesofM&TCapitalTrustI
(andtheGuaranteeofM&TBankCorporationwithrespectthereto)
(Titleofclass)
8.234%JuniorSubordinatedDebenturesof
M&TBankCorporation
(Titleofclass)
Indicatebycheckmarkiftheregistrantisawell-knownseasonedissuer,asdefinedinRule405oftheSecurities
Act.Yes
ÍNo‘IndicatebycheckmarkiftheregistrantisnotrequiredtofilereportspursuanttoSection13orSection15(d)ofthe
Act.Yes
‘NoÍIndicatebycheckmarkwhethertheregistrant(1)hasfiledallreportsrequiredtobefiledbySection13or15(d)oftheSecurities
ExchangeActof1934duringthepreceding12months,and(2)hasbeensubjecttosuchfilingrequirementsforthepast

90days.Yes
ÍNo‘IndicatebycheckmarkwhethertheregistranthassubmittedelectronicallyandpostedonitscorporateWebsite,ifany,every
InteractiveDataFilerequiredtobesubmittedandpostedpursuanttoRule405ofRegulationS-Tduringthepreceding12months(or

forsuchshorterperiodthattheregistrantwasrequiredtosubmitandpostsuchfiles).Yes
ÍNo‘IndicatebycheckmarkifdisclosureofdelinquentfilerspursuanttoItem405ofRegulationS-Kisnotcontainedherein,andwill
notbecontained,tothebestofregistrant™sknowledge,indefinitiveproxyorinformationstatementsincorporatedbyreferenceinPart

IIIofthisForm10-KoranyamendmenttothisForm10-K.
‘Indicatebycheckmarkwhethertheregistrantisalargeacceleratedfiler,anacceleratedfiler,anon-acceleratedfiler,orasmaller
reportingcompany.Seethedefinitionsofﬁlargeacceleratedfiler,ﬂﬁacceleratedfiler,ﬂandﬁsmallerreportingcompanyﬂinRule12b-2

oftheExchangeAct.(Checkone):
Largeacceleratedfiler
ÍAcceleratedfiler
‘Non-acceleratedfiler
‘Smallerreportingcompany
‘(Donotcheckifasmallerreportingcompany)

Indicatebycheckmarkwhethertheregistrantisashellcompany(asdefinedinRule12b-2oftheAct).Yes
‘NoÍAggregatemarketvalueoftheCommonStock,$0.50parvalue,heldbynon-affiliatesoftheregistrant,computedbyreferenceto
theclosingpriceasofthecloseofbusinessonJune30,2013:$12,619,414,344.
NumberofsharesoftheCommonStock,$0.50parvalue,outstandingasofthecloseofbusinessonFebruary14,2014:
131,031,744shares.
DocumentsIncorporatedByReference:
(1)PortionsoftheProxyStatementforthe2014AnnualMeet
ingofShareholdersofM&TBankCorporationinPartsIIandIII.
M&TBANKCORPORATION
Form10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2013
CROSS-REFERENCESHEET
Form10-K
PagePARTI
Item1.Business
.........................................................4
StatisticaldisclosurepursuanttoGuide3
I.Distributionofassets,liabilities,andshareholders™equity;interestrates
andinterestdifferential
A.Averagebalancesheets
.......................................48
B.Interestincome/expenseandresultingyieldorrateonaverage
interest-earningassets(includingnon-accrualloans)andinterest-

bearingliabilities
............................................48
C.Rate/volumevariances
.......................................24
II.Investmentportfolio
A.Year-endbalances
...........................................22
,110-111B.Maturityscheduleandweightedaverageyield
....................81
C.Aggregatecarryingvalueofsecuritiesthatexceedtenpercentof
shareholders™equity
.........................................111
III.Loanportfolio
A.Year-endbalances
...........................................22
,114B.Maturitiesandsensitivitiestochangesininterestrates
.............79
C.Riskelements
Nonaccrual,pastdueandrenegotiatedloans
.....................61,116-120Actualandproformainterestoncertainloans.
...................116,124Nonaccrualpolicy
...........................................105-106Loanconcentrations
.........................................70
IV.Summaryofloanlossexperience
A.Analysisoftheallowanceforloanlosses
.........................59,121-126Factorsinfluencingmanagement™sjudgmentconcerningtheadequacy
oftheallowanceandprovision
................................58-70,106,121-126B.Allocationoftheallowanceforloanlosses
.......................69,121,126V.Deposits
A.Averagebalancesandrates
....................................48
B.Maturityscheduleofdomestictimedepositswithbalancesof
$100,000ormore
...........................................82
VI.Returnonequityandassets
.......................................24
,42,85,87VII.Short-termborrowings
..........................................130
Item1A.RiskFactors
...................................................24-32
Item1B.UnresolvedStaffComments.
.....................................32
Item2.Properties
.....................................................32-33
Item3.LegalProceedings
...............................................33-34
Item4.MineSafetyDisclosures
..........................................34
ExecutiveOfficersoftheRegistrant
................................34-36
PARTII
Item5.MarketforRegistrant™sCommonEquity,RelatedStockholderMattersand
IssuerPurchasesofEquitySecurities
...............................36-38
A.Principalmarket
............................................36
Marketprices
..............................................94
B.Approximatenumberofholdersatyear-end
.....................22
2Form10-K
PageC.Frequencyandamountofdividendsdeclared
....................23-24
,94,103D.Restrictionsondividends
.....................................9-14
E.Securitiesauthorizedforissuanceunderequitycompensationplans..36-37

F.Performancegraph
..........................................37
G.Repurchasesofcommonstock
................................38
Item6.SelectedFinancialData
..........................................38
A.Selectedconsolidatedyear-endbalances
.........................22
B.Consolidatedearnings,etc.
...................................23
Item7.Management™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResults
ofOperations
..................................................38-95
Item7A.QuantitativeandQualitativeDisclosuresAboutMarketRisk
............96
Item8.FinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData
.......................96
A.ReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReporting
..............97
B.ReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm
.........98
C.ConsolidatedBalanceSheetŠDecember31,2013and2012
........99
D.ConsolidatedStatementofIncomeŠYearsendedDecember31,
2013,2012and2011
.........................................100
E.ConsolidatedStatementofComprehensiveIncomeŠYearsended
December31,2013,2012and2011
.............................101
F.ConsolidatedStatementofCashFlowsŠYearsendedDecember31,
2013,2012and2011
.........................................102
G.ConsolidatedStatementofChangesinShareholders™EquityŠYears
endedDecember31,2013,2012and2011
.......................103
H.NotestoFinancialStatements
.................................104-172I.QuarterlyTrends
...........................................94
Item9.ChangesinandDisagreementswithAccountantsonAccountingand
FinancialDisclosure
.............................................173
Item9A.ControlsandProcedures
.........................................173
A.Conclusionsofprincipalexecutiveofficerandprincipalfinancial
officerregardingdisclosurecontrolsandprocedures
...............173
B.Management™sannualreportoninternalcontroloverfinancial
reporting..................................................173
C.Attestationreportoftheregisteredpublicaccountingfirm
.........173
D.Changesininternalcontroloverfinancialreporting
...............173
Item9B.OtherInformation
..............................................173
PARTIII
Item10.Directors,ExecutiveOfficersandCorporateGovernance
...............173
Item11.ExecutiveCompensation
.........................................173
Item12.SecurityOwnershipofCertainBeneficialOwnersandManagementand
RelatedStockholderMatters
......................................174
Item13.CertainRelationshipsandRelatedTransactions,andDirector
Independence..................................................174
Item14.PrincipalAccountantFeesandServices
.............................174
PARTIV
Item15.ExhibitsandFinancialStatementSchedules
..........................174
SIGNATURES...........................................................175-176EXHIBITINDEX
........................................................177-1793PARTI
Item1.
Business.M&TBankCorporation(ﬁRegistrantﬂorﬁM&Tﬂ)isaNewYorkbusinesscorporationwhichisregisteredas
afinancialholdingcompanyundertheBankHoldingCompanyActof1956,asamended(ﬁBHCAﬂ)andas

abankholdingcompany(ﬁBHCﬂ)underArticleIII-AoftheNewYorkBankingLaw(ﬁBankingLawﬂ).The

principalexecutiveofficesoftheRegistrantarelocatedatOneM&TPlaza,Buffalo,NewYork14203.The

RegistrantwasincorporatedinNovember1969.TheRegistrantanditsdirectandindirectsubsidiariesare

collectivelyreferredtohereinastheﬁCompany.ﬂAsofDecember31,2013theCompanyhadconsolidated

totalassetsof$85.2billion,depositsof$67.1billionandshareholders™equityof$11.3billion.TheCompany

had14,629full-timeand1,264part-timeemployeesasofDecember31,2013.
AtDecember31,2013,theRegistranthadtwowhollyownedbanksubsidiaries:M&TBankand
WilmingtonTrust,NationalAssociation(ﬁWilmingtonTrust,N.A.ﬂ).Thebankscollectivelyofferawide

rangeofretailandcommercialbanking,trustandwealthmanagement,andinvestmentservicestotheir

customers.AtDecember31,2013,M&TBankrepresented99%ofconsolidatedassetsoftheCompany.
TheCompanyfromtimetotimeconsidersacquiringbanks,thriftinstitutions,branchofficesof
banksorthriftinstitutions,orotherbusinesseswithinmarketscurrentlyservedbytheCompanyorinother

locationsthatwouldcomplementtheCompany™sbusinessoritsgeographicreach.TheCompanyhas

pursuedacquisitionopportunitiesinthepast,continuestoreviewdifferentopportunities,includingthe

possibilityofmajoracquisitions,andintendstocontinuethispractice.
SubsidiariesM&TBankisabankingcorporationthatisincorporatedunderthelawsoftheStateofNewYork.M&TBank

isamemberoftheFederalReserveSystemandtheFederalHomeLoanBankSystem,anditsdepositsare

insuredbytheFederalDepositInsuranceCorporation(ﬁFDICﬂ)uptoapplicablelimits.M&Tacquiredallof

theissuedandoutstandingsharesofthecapitalstockofM&TBankinDecember1969.ThestockofM&T

BankrepresentsamajorassetofM&T.M&TBankoperatesunderachartergrantedbytheStateofNewYork

in1892,andthecontinuityofitsbankingbusinessistracedtotheorganizationoftheManufacturersand

TradersBankin1856.TheprincipalexecutiveofficesofM&TBankarelocatedatOneM&TPlaza,Buffalo,

NewYork14203.AsofDecember31,2013,M&TBankhad720domesticbankingofficeslocatedinNewYork

State,Pennsylvania,Maryland,Delaware,Virginia,WestVirginia,andtheDistrictofColumbia,afull-service

commercialbankingofficeinOntario,Canada,andanofficeinGeorgeTown,CaymanIslands.Asof

December31,2013,M&TBankhadconsolidatedtotalasse
tsof$84.4billion,depositsof$68.2billionand
shareholder™sequityof$11.0billion.ThedepositliabilitiesofM&TBankareinsuredbytheFDICthroughits

DepositInsuranceFund(ﬁDIFﬂ).Asacommercialbank,M&TBankoffersabroadrangeoffinancialservices

toadiversebaseofconsumers,businesses,professionalcl
ients,governmentalentitiesandfinancialinstitutions
locatedinitsmarkets.Lendingislargelyfocusedon
consumersresidinginNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,
Maryland,Virginia,DelawareandWashington,D.C.,andonsmallandmedium-sizebusinessesbasedinthose

areas,althoughloansareoriginatedthroughlendingofficesinotherstatesandinOntario,Canada.In

addition,theCompanyconductslendingactivitiesinvariousstatesthroughothersubsidiaries.Trustandother

fiduciaryservicesareofferedbyM&TBankandthroughitswhollyownedsubsidiary,WilmingtonTrust

Company.M&TBankandcertainofitssubsidiariesalso
offercommercialmortgageloanssecuredbyincome
producingpropertiesorpropertiesusedbyborrowersinatradeorbusiness.Additionalfinancialservicesare

providedthroughotheroperatingsubsidiariesoftheCompany.
WilmingtonTrust,N.A.,anationalbankingassociationandamemberoftheFederalReserveSystem
andtheFDIC,commencedoperationsonOctober2,1995.ThedepositliabilitiesofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.

areinsuredbytheFDICthroughtheDIF.ThemainofficeofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.islocatedat1100

NorthMarketStreet,Wilmington,Delaware,19890.AsecondofficeislocatedinOakfield,NewYork.

WilmingtonTrust,N.A.offersvarioustrustandwealthmanagementservices.Historically,Wilmington

Trust,N.A.offeredselecteddepositandloanproductsonanationwidebasis,throughdirectmail,telephone

marketingtechniquesandtheInternet.AsofDecember31,2013,WilmingtonTrust,N.A.hadtotalassetsof

$1.7billion,depositsof$1.1billionandshareholder™sequityof$422million.
WilmingtonTrustCompany,awhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&TBank,wasincorporatedasa
DelawarebankandtrustcompanyinMarch1901andamendeditscharterinJuly2011tobecomea

nondepositorytrustcompany.WilmingtonTrustCompanyprovidesavarietyofDelawarebasedtrust,

fiduciaryandcustodialservicestoitsclients.AsofDecember31,2013,WilmingtonTrustCompanyhad
4totalassetsof$1.1billionandshareholder™sequityof$544million.RevenuesofWilmingtonTrust
Companywere$119millionin2013.TheheadquartersofWilmingtonTrustCompanyarelocatedat1100

NorthMarketStreet,Wilmington,Delaware19890.
M&TLifeInsuranceCompany(ﬁM&TLifeInsuranceﬂ),awhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&T,was
incorporatedasanArizonabusinesscorporationinJanuary1984.M&TLifeInsuranceisacreditreinsurer

whichreinsurescreditlifeandaccidentandhealthinsurancepurchasedbytheCompany™sconsumerloan

customers.AsofDecember31,2013,M&TLifeInsurancehadassetsof$17millionandshareholder™sequity

of$16million.M&TLifeInsurancerecordedrevenuesof$456thousandduring2013.Headquartersof

M&TLifeInsurancearelocatedat101NorthFirstAvenue,Phoenix,Arizona85003.
M&TInsuranceAgency,Inc.(ﬁM&TInsuranceAgencyﬂ),awhollyownedinsuranceagency
subsidiaryofM&TBank,wasincorporatedasaNewYorkcorporationinMarch1955.M&TInsurance

Agencyprovidesinsuranceagencyservicesprincipallytothecommercialmarket.AsofDecember31,2013,

M&TInsuranceAgencyhadassetsof$52millionandshareholder™sequityof$38million.M&TInsurance

Agencyrecordedrevenuesof$25millionduring2013.TheheadquartersofM&TInsuranceAgencyare

locatedat285DelawareAvenue,Buffalo,NewYork14202.
M&TMortgageReinsuranceCompany,Inc.(ﬁM&TReinsuranceﬂ),awhollyownedsubsidiaryof
M&TBank,wasincorporatedasaVermontbusinesscorporationinJuly1999.M&TReinsuranceentersinto

reinsurancecontractswithinsurancecompanieswhoinsureagainsttheriskofamortgageborrower™s

paymentdefaultinconnectionwithM&TBank-relatedmortgageloans.M&TReinsurancereceivesashare

ofthepremiumforthosepoliciesinexchangeforacceptingaportionoftheinsurer™sriskofborrower

default.AsofDecember31,2013,M&TReinsurancehadassetsof$20millionandshareholder™sequityof

$14million.M&TReinsurancerecordedapproximately$2millionofrevenueduring2013.M&T

Reinsurance™sprincipalandregisteredofficeisat148CollegeStreet,Burlington,Vermont05401.
M&TRealEstateTrust(ﬁM&TRealEstateﬂ)isaMarylandRealEstateInvestmentTrustthatwasformed
throughthemergeroftwoseparatesubsidiaries,buttracesitsorigintotheincorporationofM&TRealEstate,

Inc.inJuly1995.M&TRealEstateengagesincommercialrealestatelendingandprovidesloanservicingtoM&T

Bank.AsofDecember31,2013,M&TRealEstatehadassetsof$17.8billion,commonshareholder™sequityof

$15.9billion,andpreferredshareholders™equity,consist
ingof9%fixed-ratepreferredstock(parvalue$1,000),of
$1million.Alloftheoutstandingcommonstockand89%ofthepreferredstockofM&TRealEstateisownedby

M&TBank.Theremaining11%ofM&TRealEstate™soutstandingpreferredstockisownedbyofficersorformer

officersoftheCompany.M&TRealEstaterecorded$767millionofrevenuein2013.TheheadquartersofM&T

RealEstatearelocatedatM&TCenter,OneFountainPlaza,Buffalo,NewYork14203.
M&TRealtyCapitalCorporation(ﬁM&TRealtyCapitalﬂ),awhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&TBank,
wasincorporatedasaMarylandcorporationinOctober1973.M&TRealtyCapitalengagesinmultifamily

commercialrealestatelendingandprovidesloanservicingtopurchasersoftheloansitoriginates.Asof

December31,2013,M&TRealtyCapitalserviced$11.4billionofcommercialmortgageloansfornon-

affiliatesandhadassetsof$492millionandshareholder™sequityof$85million.M&TRealtyCapital

recordedrevenuesof$97millionin2013.TheheadquartersofM&TRealtyCapitalarelocatedat25South

CharlesStreet,Baltimore,Maryland21202.
M&TSecurities,Inc.(ﬁM&TSecuritiesﬂ)isawhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&TBankthatwas
incorporatedasaNewYorkbusinesscorporationinNovember1985.M&TSecuritiesisregisteredasa

broker/dealerundertheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,asamended,andasaninvestmentadvisorunder

theInvestmentAdvisorsActof1940,asamended(theﬁInvestmentAdvisorsActﬂ).M&TSecuritiesis

licensedasalifeinsuranceagentineachstatewhereM&TBankoperatesbranchofficesandinanumberof

otherstates.Itprovidessecuritiesbrokerage,investmentadvisoryandinsuranceservices.Asof

December31,2013,M&TSecuritieshadassetsof$65millionandshareholder™sequityof$44million.M&T

Securitiesrecorded$103millionofrevenueduring2013.TheheadquartersofM&TSecuritiesarelocatedat

OneM&TPlaza,Buffalo,NewYork14203.
WilmingtonTrustInvestmentAdvisors,Inc.(ﬁWTInvestmentAdvisorsﬂ),awhollyowned
subsidiaryofM&TBankandformerlyknownasMTBInvestmentAdvisorspriortoitsnamechangeon

January10,2012,wasincorporatedasaMarylandcorporationonJune30,1995.WTInvestmentAdvisors,a

registeredinvestmentadvisorundertheInvestmentAdvisorsAct,servesasinvestmentadvisortothe

WilmingtonFunds,afamilyofproprietarymutualfunds,andinstitutionalclients.AsofDecember31,2013,

WTInvestmentAdvisorshadassetsof$34millionandshareholder™sequityof$27million.WTInvestment

Advisorsrecordedrevenuesof$45millionin2013.TheheadquartersofWTInvestmentAdvisorsare

locatedat100EastPrattStreet,Baltimore,Maryland21202.
5WilmingtonFundsManagementCorporation(ﬁWilmingtonFundsManagementﬂ),formerlyknown
asRodneySquareManagementCorporation,isawhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&Tthatwasincorporatedin

September1981asaDelawarecorporation.WilmingtonFundsManagementisregisteredasaninvestment

advisorundertheInvestmentAdvisorsActandservesastheinvestmentadvisortotheWilmingtonFunds.

WilmingtonFundsManagementhadassetsof$11millionandshareholder™sequityof$10millionasof

December31,2013.WilmingtonFundsManagementrecordedrevenuesof$19millionin2013.The

headquartersofWilmingtonFundsManagementarelocatedat1100NorthMarketStreet,Wilmington,

Delaware19890.
WilmingtonTrustInvestmentManagement,LLC(ﬁWTIMﬂ)isawhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&T
andwasincorporatedinDecember2001asaGeorgialimitedliabilitycompany.WTIMisaregistered

investmentadvisorundertheInvestmentAdvisorsActandprovidesinvestmentmanagementservicesto

clients,includingcertainprivatefunds.AsofDecember31,2013,WTIMhasassetsof$23millionand

shareholder™sequityof$23million.WTIMrecordedrevenuesof$7millionin2013.WTIM™sheadquarters

islocatedatTerminus27
thFloor,3280PeachtreeRoadN.E.,Atlanta,Georgia30305.
TheRegistrantanditsbankingsubsidiarieshaveanumberofotherspecial-purposeorinactive
subsidiaries.Theseothersubsidiariesdidnotrepresent,individuallyandcollectively,asignificantportionof

theCompany™sconsolidatedassets,netincomeandshareholders™equityatDecember31,2013.
SegmentInformation,PrincipalProducts/ServicesandForeignOperations
InformationabouttheRegistrant™sbusinesssegmentsisincludedinnote22ofNotestoFinancial

StatementsfiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancialStatementsandSupplementaryDataﬂandisfurther

discussedinPartII,Item7,ﬁManagement™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsof

Operations.ﬂTheRegistrant™sreportablesegmentshavebeendeterminedbaseduponitsinternal

profitabilityreportingsystem,whichisorganizedbystrategicbusinessunit.Certainstrategicbusinessunits

havebeencombinedforsegmentinformationreportingpurposeswherethenatureoftheproductsand

services,thetypeofcustomerandthedistributionofthoseproductsandservicesaresimilar.Thereportable

segmentsareBusinessBanking,CommercialBanking,CommercialRealEstate,DiscretionaryPortfolio,

ResidentialMortgageBankingandRetailBanking.TheCompany™sinternationalactivitiesarediscussedin

note17ofNotestoFinancialStatementsfiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancialStatementsand

SupplementaryData.ﬂ
Theonlyactivitiesthat,asaclass,contributed10%ormoreofthesumofconsolidatedinterest
incomeandotherincomeinanyofthelastthreeyearswereinterestonloans,trustincomeandfeesfor

providingdepositaccountservices.Theamountofincomefromsuchsourcesduringthoseyearsissetforth

ontheCompany™sConsolidatedStatementofIncomefiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancial

StatementsandSupplementaryData.ﬂ
SupervisionandRegulationoftheCompany
M&Tanditssubsidiariesaresubjecttothecomprehensiveregulatoryframeworkapplicabletobankand

financialholdingcompaniesandtheirsubsidiaries.RegulationoffinancialinstitutionssuchasM&Tandits

subsidiariesisintendedprimarilyfortheprotectionofdepositors,theFDIC™sDepositInsuranceFundand

thebankingandfinancialsystemasawhole,andgenerallyisnotintendedfortheprotectionof

shareholders,investorsorcreditorsotherthaninsureddepositors.Describedbelowarematerialelementsof

selectedlawsandregulationsapplicabletoM&Tanditssubsidiaries.Thedescriptionsarenotintendedtobe

completeandarequalifiedintheirentiretybyreferencetothefulltextofthestatutesandregulations

described.OverviewM&TisregisteredwiththeBoardofGovernorsoftheFederalReserveBoardSystem(theﬁFederalReserve

Boardﬂ)asaBHCundertheBHCA.Assuch,M&Tanditssubsidiariesaresubjecttothesupervision,

examinationandreportingrequirementsoftheBHCAandtheregulationsoftheFederalReserveBoard.
Ingeneral,theBHCAlimitsthebusinessofaBHCtobanking,managingorcontrollingbanksand
otheractivitiesthattheFederalReserveBoardhasdeterminedtobesocloselyrelatedtobankingastobea

properincidentthereto.Inaddition,bankholdingcompaniesthatqualifyandelecttobefinancialholding

companiesmayengageinanyactivity,oracquireandretainthesharesofacompanyengagedinanyactivity,

thatiseither(i)financialinnatureorincidentaltosuchfinancialactivity(asdeterminedbytheFederalReserve

Board,byregulationororder,inconsultationwiththeSecretaryoftheTreasury)or(ii)complementarytoa
6financialactivityanddoesnotposeasubstantialrisktothesafetyandsoundnessofdepositoryinstitutionsor
thefinancialsystemgenerally(assolelydeterminedbytheFederalReserveBoard).Activitiesthatarefinancial

innatureincludesecuritiesunderwritinganddealing,insuranceunderwritingandmakingmerchantbanking

investments.Tomaintainfinancialholdingcompanystatus,afinancialholdingcompanyandallofitsdepository
institutionsubsidiariesmustbeﬁwellcapitalizedﬂandﬁwellmanaged.ﬂM&Tbecameafinancialholding

companyonMarch1,2011.Ifafinancialholdingcompanyfailstocontinuetomeetanyoftheprerequisites

forfinancialholdingcompanystatus,thecompanymustenterintoanagreementwiththeFederalReserve

Boardtocomplywithallapplicablecapitalandmanagementrequirements.Undersuchagreement,the

noncompliantfinancialholdingcompanygenerallymaynotcommenceanyadditionalactivityoracquire

sharesofanycompanypursuanttothefinancialholdingcompanyprovisionsoftheBHCA,withoutprior

approvaloftheFederalReserveBoard.Ifthecompanydoesnotreturntocompliancewithin180days,the

FederalReserveBoardmayorderthecompanytodivestitssubsidiarybanksorthecompanymay

discontinueordivestinvestmentsincompaniesengagedinactivitiespermissibleonlyforaBHCelectingto

betreatedasafinancialholdingcompany.Inorderforafinancialholdingcompanytocommenceanynew

activityortoacquireacompanyengagedinanyactivitypursuanttothefinancialholdingcompany

provisionsoftheBHCA,eachinsureddepositoryinstitutionsubsidiaryofthefinancialholdingcompany

alsomusthaveatleastaﬁsatisfactoryﬂratingundertheCommunityReinvestmentActof1977(theﬁCRAﬂ).

SeethesectioncaptionedﬁCommunityReinvestmentActﬂincludedelsewhereinthisitem.
Currentfederallawalsoestablishesasystemoffunctionalregulationunderwhich,inadditiontothe
broadsupervisoryauthoritythattheFederalReserveBoardhasoverboththebankingandnon-banking

activitiesofbankholdingcompanies,thefederalbankingagenciesregulatethebankingactivitiesofbank

holdingcompanies,banksandsavingsassociationsandsubsidiariesoftheforegoing,theU.S.Securitiesand

ExchangeCommission(ﬁSECﬂ)regulatestheirsecuritiesactivities,andstateinsuranceregulatorsregulate

theirinsuranceactivities.
RecentDevelopments
TheeventsofthepastfewyearshaveledtonumerousnewlawsintheUnitedStatesandinternationallyfor

financialinstitutions.TheDodd-FrankWallStreetReformandConsumerProtectionAct(theﬁDodd-Frank

ActﬂorﬁDodd-Frankﬂ),whichwasenactedinJuly2010,significantlyrestructuresthefinancialregulatory

regimeintheUnitedStatesandprovidesforenhancedsupervisionandprudentialstandardsfor,among

otherthings,bankholdingcompanies,likeM&T,thathavetotalconsolidatedassetsof$50billionormore.

TheimplicationsoftheDodd-FrankActfortheCompany™sbusinesseswilldependtoalargeextentonthe

mannerinwhichrulesadoptedpursuanttotheDodd-FrankActareimplementedbytheprimaryU.S.

financialregulatoryagenciesaswellaspotentialchangesinmarketpracticesandstructuresinresponseto

therequirementsoftheDodd-FrankActandfinancialreformsinotherjurisdictions.
TheDodd-FrankActbroadenedthebaseforFDICinsuranceassessments.Beginninginthesecond
quarterof2011,assessmentsarebasedonaverageconsolidatedtotalassetslessaverageTier1capitaland

certainallowabledeductionsofafinancialinstitution.TheDodd-FrankActalsopermanentlyincreasedthe

maximumamountofdepositinsuranceforbanks,savingsinstitutionsandcreditunionsto$250,000per

depositor,retroactivetoJanuary1,2009.
Thelegislationalsorequiresthatpubliclytradedcompaniesgiveshareholdersanon-bindingvoteon
executivecompensationandﬁgoldenparachuteﬂpayments,andauthorizestheSecuritiesandExchange

Commissiontopromulgaterulesthatwouldallowshareholderstonominatetheirowncandidatesusinga

company™sproxymaterials.TheDodd-FrankActalsodirectstheFederalReserveBoardtopromulgaterules

prohibitingexcessivecompensationpaidtobankholdingcompanyexecutives,regardlessofwhetherthe

companyispubliclytraded.
TheDodd-FrankActestablishedanewBureauofConsumerFinancialProtection(ﬁCFPBﬂ)with
broadpowerstosuperviseandenforceconsumerprotectionlaws.TheCFPBhasbroadrule-making

authorityforawiderangeofconsumerprotectionlawsthatapplytoallbanksandsavingsinstitutions,

includingtheauthoritytoprohibitﬁunfair,deceptiveorabusiveﬂactsandpractices.TheCFPBhas

examinationandenforcementauthorityoverallbanksandsavingsinstitutionswithmorethan$10billion

inassets.
Inaddition,theDodd-FrankAct,amongotherthings:
Šweakenedthefederalpreemptionrulesthathavebeenapplicablefornationalbanksandgivesstate

attorneysgeneraltheabilitytoenforcefederalconsumerprotectionlaws;
7ŠamendedtheElectronicFundTransferAct(ﬁEFTAﬂ)whichresultedin,amongotherthings,the
FederalReserveBoardissuingrulesaimedatlimitingdebit-cardinterchangefees;
Šappliedthesameleverageandrisk-basedcapitalrequirementsthatapplytoinsureddepository

institutionstomostbankholdingcompanies;
ŠprovidedforanincreaseintheFDICassessmentfordepositoryinstitutionswithassetsof$10billion

ormoreandincreasedtheminimumreserveratioforthedepositinsurancefundfrom1.15%to

1.35%;Šimposedcomprehensiveregulationoftheover-the-counterderivativesmarket,whichwouldinclude

certainprovisionsthatwouldeffectivelyprohibitinsureddepositoryinstitutionsfromconducting

certainderivativesbusinessesintheinstitutionitself;
Šrepealedthefederalprohibitionsonthepaymentofinterestondemanddeposits,therebypermitting

depositoryinstitutionstopayinterestonbusinesstransactionandotheraccounts;
Šprovidedmortgagereformprovisionsregardingacustomer™sabilitytorepay,restrictingvariable-rate

lendingbyrequiringtheabilitytorepaytobedeterminedforvariable-rateloansbyusingthe

maximumratethatwillapplyduringthefirstfiveyearsofavariable-rateloanterm,andmaking

moreloanssubjecttoprovisionsforhighercostloans,newdisclosures,andcertainother

revisions;and
ŠcreatedtheFinancialStabilityOversightCouncil,whichwillrecommendtotheFederalReserve

Boardincreasinglystrictrulesforcapital,leverage,liquidity,riskmanagementandother

requirementsascompaniesgrowinsizeandcomplexity.
EnhancedSupervisionandPrudentialStandards
Section165oftheDodd-FrankActdirectedtheFederalReserveBoardtoenactenhancedprudential

standardsapplicabletoforeignbankingorganizationsandbankholdingcompanieswithtotalconsolidated

assetsof$50billionormore,suchasM&T.OnFebruary18,2014,theFederalReserveBoardadopted

amendmentstoRegulationYYtoimplementcertainoftherequiredenhancedprudentialstandards.These

enhancedprudentialstandards,whichareintendedtohelpincreasetheresiliencyoftheoperationsofthese

organizations,includeliquidityrequirements,requirementsforoverallriskmanagement(including

establishingariskcommittee),anda15-to-1debt-to-equitylimitforcompaniesthattheFinancialStability

OversightCouncilhasdeterminedposeagravethreattofinancialstability.M&Twillhavetocomplywith

theliquidityrequirementsandriskmanagementrequirementsbyJanuary1,2015.TheFederalReserve

Boardhasnotyetadoptedfinalsinglecounterpartycreditlimitsorearlyremediationrequirements.
Theruleaddressesadiversearrayofregulatoryareas,eachofwhichishighlycomplex.Insome
instancestheyimplementnewfinancialregulatoryrequirementsandinotherinstancestheyoverlapwith

regulatoryreformscurrentlyinexistence(suchastheBaselIIIcapitalandliquidityreformsdiscussedlater

inthissection).M&Tisanalyzingtheimpactofthefinalruleonitsbusinesses;however,thefullimpactwill

notbeknownuntiltheruleandotherregulatoryinitiativesthatoverlapwiththefinalrulecanbeanalyzed.
VolckerRule
TheDodd-FrankActrequiresthefederalfinancialregulatoryagenciestoadoptrulesthatprohibitbanksand

theiraffiliatesfromengaginginproprietarytradingandinvestinginandsponsoringcertainunregistered

investmentcompanies(definedashedgefundsandprivateequityfunds).Thestatutoryprovisionis

commonlycalledtheﬁVolckerRule.ﬂOnDecember10,2013,thefederalbankingregulatorsandtheSEC

adoptedfinalrulestoimplementtheVolckerRule.TheCompanybelievesthatitdoesnotengageinany

significantamountofproprietarytradingasdefinedintheVolckerRuleandthat,althoughitmaybe

requiredbythecoveredfundsprovisionstodivestcertaininvestmentsbytheendofthecomplianceperiod,

theVolckerRuleisnotexpectedtohaveasignificanteffectonM&T™sfinancialconditionoritsresultsof

operations.AlthoughtheVolckerRulebecameeffectiveonJuly21,2012andthefinalrulesareeffective

April1,2014,inconnectionwiththeadoptionofthefinalrulesonDecember10,2013bytheresponsible

agencies,theFederalReserveissuedanorderextendingtheperiodduringwhichinstitutionshaveto

conformtheiractivitiesandinvestmentstotherequirementsoftheVolckerRuletoJuly21,2015.
8DividendsM&Tisalegalentityseparateanddistinctfromitsbankingandothersubsidiaries.Historically,themajorityof

M&T™srevenuehasbeenfromdividendspaidtoM&Tbyitssubsidiarybanks.M&TBankandWilmington

Trust,N.A.aresubject,underoneormoreofthebankinglaws,torestrictionsontheamountofdividendsthey

maydeclareandpay.FuturedividendpaymentstoM&Tbyitssubsidiarybankswillbedependentona

numberoffactors,includingtheearningsandfinancialconditionofeachsuchbank,andaresubjecttothe

limitationsreferredtoinnote23ofNotestoFinancialStatementsfiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancial

StatementsandSupplementaryData,ﬂandtootherstatutorypowersofbankregulatoryagencies.
Aninsureddepositoryinstitutionisprohibitedfrommakinganycapitaldistributiontoitsowner,
includinganydividend,if,aftermakingsuchdistribution,thedepositoryinstitutionfailstomeetthe

requiredminimumlevelforanyrelevantcapitalmeasure,includingtherisk-basedcapitaladequacyand

leveragestandardsdiscussedherein.
DividendpaymentsbyM&TtoitsshareholdersandstockrepurchasesbyM&Taresubjecttothe
oversightoftheFederalReserveBoard.AsdescribedbelowinthissectionunderﬁFederalReserveBoard™s

CapitalPlanReview,ﬂdividendsandstockrepurchasesgenerallymayonlybepaidormadeunderacapital

planastowhichtheFederalReserveBoardhasnotobjected.
SupervisionandRegulationofM&TBank™sSubsidiaries
M&TBankhasanumberofsubsidiaries.Thesesubsidiariesaresubjecttothelawsandregulationsofboth

thefederalgovernmentandthevariousstatesinwhichtheyconductbusiness.Forexample,M&TSecurities

isregulatedbytheSEC,theFinancialIndustryRegulatoryAuthorityandstatesecuritiesregulators.
CapitalRequirements
M&Tanditssubsidiarybanksarerequiredtocomplywithapplicablecapitaladequacystandardsestablished

bythefederalbankingagencies.Thecurrentrisk-basedcapitalstandardsapplicabletoM&Tandits

subsidiarybanksarebasedonthe1988CapitalAccord,knownasBaselI,oftheBaselCommitteeon

BankingSupervision(theﬁBaselCommitteeﬂ).However,thefederalbankingagencieshaverecentlyadopted

rulesimplementingtheBaselIIIframeworkthatwillreplacetheserulesforM&Tanditssubsidiarybanks

effectiveJanuary1,2015.
BaselIRisk-basedCapitalStandards.
TheBaselIrisk-basedcapitalstandardsaredesignedtomake
regulatorycapitalrequirementsmoresensitivetodifferencesincreditandmarketriskprofilesamongbank

andfinancialholdingcompanies,toaccountforoff-balancesheetexposure,andtominimizedisincentives

forholdingliquidassets.Assetsandoff-balancesheetitemsareassignedtobroadriskcategories,eachwith

appropriateweights.Theresultingcapitalratiosrepresentcapitalasapercentageoftotalrisk-weightedassets

andoff-balancesheetitems.
Theminimumguidelinefortheratiooftotalcapital(ﬁTotalCapitalﬂ)torisk-weightedassets(including
certainoff-balancesheetitems,suchasstandbylettersofcredit)is8.0%.AtleasthalfoftheTotalCapitalmustbe

ﬁTier1Capital,ﬂwhichcurrentlyconsistsofqualifyin
gcommonequity,qualifyingperpetualpreferredstock
(includingrelatedsurplus),minorityinterestsrelatingtoqualifyingcommonornon-cumulativeperpetual

preferredstockissuedbyaconsolidatedU.S.depositoryinstitutionorforeignbanksubsidiary,andcertain

ﬁrestrictedcorecapitalelements,ﬂasdiscussedbelow,les
sgoodwillandcertainotherintangibleassets.Currently,
ﬁTier2Capitalﬂmayconsistof,amongotherthings,qual
ifyingsubordinateddebt,mandatorilyconvertibledebt
securities,preferredstockandtrustpreferredsecuritiesnotincludedinthedefinitionofTier1Capital,anda

limitedamountoftheallowanceforloanlosses.Non-cum
ulativeperpetualpreferredstock,trustpreferred
securitiesandotherso-calledﬁrestrictedcorecapitalelementsﬂarecurrentlylimitedto25%ofTier1Capital.

PursuanttotheDodd-FrankAct,trustpreferredsecuritieswillbephased-outofthedefinitionofTier1Capitalof

bankholdingcompanieshavingconsolidatedassetsexceeding$500million,suchthatin201525%oftrust

preferredsecuritieswillbeincludableinTier1Capitalandnonewillbeincludablebeginningin2016.
Theminimumguidelinetobeconsideredwell-capitalizedforTier1CapitalandTotalCapitalis6.0%and
10.0%,respectively.AtDecember31,2013,M&T™sconsoli
datedTier1Capitalratiowas12.00%,anditsTotal
Capitalratiowas15.07%.TheelementscurrentlycomprisingTier1CapitalandTier2Capitalandtheminimum

Tier1CapitalandTotalCapitalratiosmayinthefuturebesubjecttochange,asdiscussedingreaterdetailbelow.
9Bankholdingcompaniesandbanksarealsocurrentlyrequiredtocomplywithminimumleverage
ratiorequirements.Theleverageratioistheratioofabankingorganization™sTier1capitaltoitstotal

adjustedquarterlyaverageassets(asdefinedforregulatorypurposes).Therequirementsnecessitatea

minimumleverageratioof3.0%forbankholdingcompaniesandmemberbanksthateitherhavethe

highestsupervisoryratingorhaveimplementedtheappropriatefederalregulatoryauthority™sriskadjusted

measureformarketrisk.Allotherbankholdingcompaniesandmemberbanksarerequiredtomaintaina

minimumleverageratioof4.0%,unlessadifferentminimumisspecifiedbyanappropriateregulatory

authority.Inaddition,foradepositoryinstitutiontobeconsideredﬁwellcapitalizedﬂundertheregulatory

frameworkforpromptcorrectiveaction,itsleverageratiomustbeatleast5.0%.TheFederalReserveBoard

hasnotadvisedM&Toritssubsidiarybanksofanyspecificminimumleverageratioapplicabletothem.
BaselIIStandards.
In2004,theBaselCommitteepublishedanewsetofrisk-basedcapitalstandards
(ﬁBaselIIﬂ)inordertoupdateBaselI.BaselIIprovidestwoapproachesforsettingcapitalstandardsforcredit

riskŠaninternalratings-basedapproachtailoredtoindividualinstitutions™circumstancesandastandardized

approachthatbasesrisk-weightingonexternalcreditassessmentstoamuchgreaterextentthanpermittedinthe

existingrisk-basedcapitalguidelines.BaselIIalsowouldsetcapitalrequirementsforoperationalriskandrefine

theexistingcapitalrequirementsformarketriskexposures.Adefinitivefinalruleforimplementingtheadvanced

approachesofBaselIIintheUnitedStates,whichappliesonlytointernationallyactivebankingorganizations,or

ﬁcorebanksﬂ(definedasthosewithconsolidatedtotalassetsof$250billionormoreorconsolidatedon-balance

sheetforeignexposuresof$10billionormore)becameeffectiveonApril1,2008.OtherU.S.banking

organizationsmayelecttoadopttherequirementsofthisrule(iftheymeetapplicablequalification

requirements),butarenotrequiredtocomply.Therulealsoallowsabankingorganization™sprimaryfederal

supervisortodeterminethatapplicationoftherulewouldnotbeappropriateinlightofthebank™sassetsize,level

ofcomplexity,riskprofileorscopeofoperations.NeitherM&TBanknorWilmingtonTrust,N.A.iscurrently

requiredtocomplywithBaselII.
BaselIIIandtheNewCapitalRules.
InJuly2013,thefederalbankingagenciesapprovedfinalrules(the
ﬁNewCapitalRulesﬂ)establishinganewcomprehensivecapitalframeworkforU.S.bankingorganizations.The

NewCapitalRulesgenerallyimplementtheBaselCommittee™sDecember2010finalcapitalframeworkreferredto

asﬁBaselIIIﬂforstrengtheninginternationalcapitalstandards.TheNewCapitalRulessubstantiallyrevisethe

risk-basedcapitalrequirementsapplicabletobankholdingcompaniesandtheirdepositoryinstitution

subsidiaries,includingM&T,M&TBankandWilmington
Trust,N.A.,ascomparedtothecurrentU.S.general
risk-basedcapitalrules.TheNewCapitalRulesrevisethedefinitionsandthecomponentsofregulatorycapital,as

wellasaddressotherissuesaffectingthenumeratorinbankinginstitutions™regulatorycapitalratios.TheNew

CapitalRulesalsoaddressassetriskweightsandothermattersaffectingthedenominatorinbankinginstitutions™

regulatorycapitalratiosandreplacetheexistinggeneralrisk-weightingapproach,whichwasderivedfromthe

BaselIcapitalaccords,withamorerisk-sensitiveapproachbased,inpart,ontheﬁstandardizedapproachﬂinthe

BaselIIcapitalaccords.Inaddition,theNewCapitalRulesimplementcertainprovisionsoftheDodd-FrankAct,

includingtherequirementsofSection939Atoremoverefere
ncestocreditratingsfromthefederalagencies™rules.
TheNewCapitalRulesareeffectiveforM&TonJanuary1,2015,subjecttophase-inperiodsforcertainoftheir

componentsandotherprovisions.
Amongothermatters,theNewCapitalRules:(i)introduceanewcapitalmeasurecalledﬁCommon
EquityTier1ﬂ(ﬁCET1ﬂ)andrelatedregulatorycapitalratioofCET1torisk-weightedassets;(ii)specifythat

Tier1capitalconsistsofCET1andﬁAdditionalTier1capitalﬂinstrumentsmeetingcertainrevised

requirements;(iii)mandatethatmostdeductions/adjustmentstoregulatorycapitalmeasuresbemadeto

CET1andnottotheothercomponentsofcapital;and(iv)expandthescopeofthedeductionsfromand

adjustmentstocapitalascomparedtoexistingregulations.UndertheNewCapitalRules,formostbanking

organizations,includingM&T,themostcommonformofAdditionalTier1capitalisnon-cumulative

perpetualpreferredstockandthemostcommonformsofTier2capitalaresubordinatednotesanda

portionoftheallowanceforloanandleaselosses,ineachcase,subjecttotheNewCapitalRules™specific

requirements.PursuanttotheNewCapitalRules,theminimumcapitalratiosasofJanuary1,2015willbeas
follows:Š4.5%CET1torisk-weightedassets;
Š6.0%Tier1capital(thatis,CET1plusAdditionalTier1capital)torisk-weightedassets;
Š8.0%Totalcapital(thatis,Tier1capitalplusTier2capital)torisk-weightedassets;and
Š4.0%Tier1capitaltoaverageconsolidatedassetsasreportedonconsolidatedfinancialstatements

(knownastheﬁleverageratioﬂ).
10TheNewCapitalRulesalsointroduceanewﬁcapitalconservationbuffer,ﬂcomposedentirelyof
CET1,ontopoftheseminimumrisk-weightedassetratios.Thecapitalconservationbufferisdesignedto

absorblossesduringperiodsofeconomicstress.BankinginstitutionswitharatioofCET1torisk-weighted

assetsabovetheminimumbutbelowthecapitalconservationbufferwillfaceconstraintsondividends,

equityandothercapitalinstrumentrepurchasesandcompensationbasedontheamountoftheshortfall.

Thus,whenfullyphased-inonJanuary1,2019,thecapitalstandardsapplicabletoM&Twillincludean

additionalcapitalconservationbufferof2.5%ofCET1,effectivelyresultinginminimumratiosinclusiveof

thecapitalconservationbufferof(i)CET1torisk-weightedassetsofatleast7%,(ii)Tier1capitaltorisk-

weightedassetsofatleast8.5%;(iii)Totalcapitaltorisk-weightedassetsofatleast10.5%and(iv)a

minimumleverageratioof4%,calculatedastheratioofTier1capitaltoaverageassets(ascomparedtoa

currentminimumleverageratioof3%forbankingorganizationsthateitherhavethehighestsupervisory

ratingorhaveimplementedtheappropriatefederalregulatoryauthority™srisk-adjustedmeasureformarket

risk).Inaddition,M&TisalsosubjecttotheFederalReserveBoard™scapitalplanruleandsupervisory

CapitalAnalysisandReview(ﬁCCARﬂ)process,pursuanttowhichitsabilitytomakecapitaldistributions

andrepurchaseorredeemcapitalsecuritiesmaybelimitedunlessM&Tisabletodemonstrateitsabilityto

meetapplicableminimumcapitalratiosandcurrentlya5%minimumTier1commonequityratio,aswell

asotherrequirements,overaninequarterplanninghorizonunderaﬁseverelyadverseﬂmacroeconomic

scenariogeneratedyearlybythefederalbankregulators.SeeﬁStressTestingandCapitalPlanReviewﬂ,

below.TheNewCapitalRulesprovideforanumberofdeductionsfromandadjustmentstoCET1.These
include,forexample,therequirementthatmortgageservicingrights,deferredtaxassetsarisingfrom

temporarydifferencesthatcouldnotberealizedthroughnetoperatinglosscarrybacksandsignificant

investmentsinnon-consolidatedfinancialentitiesbedeductedfromCET1totheextentthatanyonesuch

categoryexceeds10%ofCET1orallsuchitems,intheaggregate,exceed15%ofCET1.
Inaddition,underthecurrentgeneralrisk-basedcapitalrules,theeffectsofaccumulatedother
comprehensiveincomeorloss(ﬁAOCIﬂ)itemsincludedinshareholders™equity(forexample,marks-to-

marketofsecuritiesheldintheavailable-for-saleportfolio)underU.S.GAAParereversedforthepurposes

ofdeterminingregulatorycapitalratios.PursuanttotheNewCapitalRules,theeffectsofcertainAOCI

itemsarenotexcluded;however,non-advancedapproachesbankingorganizations,includingM&T,may

makeaone-timepermanentelectiontocontinuetoexcludetheseitems.TheNewCapitalRulesalso

precludecertainhybridsecurities,suchastrustpreferredsecurities,frominclusioninbankholding

companies™Tier1capital,subjecttophase-outinthecaseofbankholdingcompanies,suchasM&T,that

had$15billionormoreintotalconsolidatedassetsasofDecember31,2009.Asaresult,beginningin2015

25%ofM&T™strustpreferredsecuritieswillbeincludableinTier1capital,andin2016,noneofM&T™s

trustpreferredsecuritieswillbeincludableinTier1capital.Trustpreferredsecuritiesnolongerincludedin

M&T™sTier1capitalmaynonethelessbeincludedasacomponentofTier2capitalonapermanentbasis

withoutphase-outandirrespectiveofwhethersuchsecuritiesotherwisemeetthereviseddefinitionofTier2

capitalsetforthintheNewCapitalRules.InFebruary2014,M&Twillredeemallofthe8.50%junior

subordinateddebenturesassociatedwiththetrustpreferredcapitalsecuritiesofM&TCapitalTrustIV.

Additionally,M&Tissued$350millionofpreferredstockduringthefirstquarterof2014thatqualifiesas

regulatorycapital.
ManagementbelievesthatM&Twillbeabletocomplywiththetargetedcapitalratiosupon
implementationoftherevisedrequirements,asfinalized.Morespecifically,managementestimatesthat

M&T™sratioofCET1torisk-weightedassetsundertheNewCapitalRulesonafullyphased-inbasiswas

approximately8.98%asofDecember31,2013,reflectingagoodfaithestimateofthecomputationofCET1

andM&T™srisk-weightedassetsunderthemethodologiessetforthintheNewCapitalRules.
M&T™sregulatorycapitalratiosunderrisk-basedcapitalrulescurrentlyineffectarepresentedinnote
23ofNotestoFinancialStatementsfiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancialStatementsand

SupplementaryData.ﬂ
LiquidityRatiosunderBaselIII.
Historically,regulationandmonitoringofbankandBHCliquidity
hasbeenaddressedasasupervisorymatter,bothintheU.S.andinternationally,withoutrequiredformulaic

measures.TheBaselIIIfinalframeworkrequiresbanksandbankholdingcompaniestomeasuretheir

liquidityagainstspecificliquiditytests.Onetest,referredtoastheliquiditycoverageratio(ﬁLCRﬂ),is

designedtoensurethatthebankingentitymaintainsanadequatelevelofunencumberedhigh-qualityliquid

assetsequaltotheentity™sexpectednetcashoutflowfora30-daytimehorizon(or,ifgreater,25%ofits

expectedtotalcashoutflow)underanacuteliquiditystressscenario.Theother,referredtoasthenetstable
11fundingratio(ﬁNSFRﬂ),isdesignedtopromotemoremedium-andlong-termfundingoftheassetsand
activitiesofbankingentitiesoveraone-yeartimehorizon.Theserequirementswillincentbankingentities

toincreasetheirholdingsofU.S.Treasurysecuritiesandothersovereigndebtasacomponentofassetsand

increasetheuseoflong-termdebtasafundingsource.
InOctober2013,thefederalbankingagenciesproposedrulesimplementingtheLCRforadvanced
approachesinstitutionsandamodifiedversionoftheLCRforbankholdingcompanieswithatleast$50

billionintotalconsolidatedassetsthatarenotadvancedapproachesinstitutions.M&Tisnotanadvanced

approachesinstitutionandwouldonlyberequiredtocomplywiththemodifiedLCR,whichascurrently

written,amongotherdifferencesfromtheLCR,onlyusesa21-daytimehorizonforcalculatingthelevelof

requiredhigh-qualityliquidassetsunderastressscenario.Theproposedrulewouldbephasedinovera

two-yearperiodbeginningJanuary1,2015,with80%compliancerequiredonJanuary1,2015,90%

complianceonJanuary1,2016and100%complianceonJanuary1,2017.Additionally,whiletheproposed

rulesdonotimplementtheNSFR,theFederalReserveBoardhasstateditsintenttoadoptaversionofthe

NSFRaswell.
TheFederalReserveBoard™sproposedheightenedprudentialrequirementsforbankholding
companieswith$50billionormoreofconsolidatedtotalassetsalsoincludeenhancedliquiditystandards,as

notedaboveunderthecaptionﬁEnhancedSupervisionandPrudentialStandards.ﬂ
CapitalRequirementsofSubsidiaryDepositoryInstitutions.
M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.
aresubjecttosubstantiallysimilarcapitalrequirementsasthoseapplicabletoM&T.AsofDecember31,

2013,bothM&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.wereincompliancewithapplicableminimumcapital

requirements.NoneofM&T,M&TBankorWilmingtonTrust,N.A.hasbeenadvisedbyanyfederal

bankingagencyofafailuretomeetanyspecificminimumcapitalratiorequirementapplicabletoitasof

December31,2013.Failuretomeetcapitalguidelinescouldsubjectabanktoavarietyofenforcement

remedies,includingtheterminationofdepositinsurancebytheFDIC,andtocertainrestrictionsonits

business.SeeﬁRegulatoryRemediesundertheFDIAﬂ,below.
StressTestingandCapitalPlanReview
Aspartoftheenhancedprudentialrequirementsapplicabletosystemicallyimportantfinancialinstitutions,

theFederalReserveBoardconductsannualanalysesofbankholdingcompanieswithatleast$50billionin

assets,suchasM&T,todeterminewhetherthecompanieshavesufficientcapitalonaconsolidatedbasis

necessarytoabsorblossesinthreeeconomicandfinancialscenariosgeneratedbytheFederalReserveBoard:

baseline,adverseandseverelyadversescenarios.TheFederalReserveBoardmakesitsmethodologiesand

dataforupcominganalysesavailablenolaterthanNovember15ofeachyear.M&Tisalsorequiredto

conductitsownsemi-annualstressanalysis(togetherwiththeFederalReserveBoard™sstressanalysis,the

ﬁstresstestsﬂ)toassessthepotentialimpactonM&Toftheeconomicandfinancialconditionsusedaspart

oftheFederalReserveBoard™sannualstressanalysis.TheFederalReserveBoardmayalsouse,andrequire

companiestouse,additionalcomponentsintheadverseandseverelyadversescenariosoradditionalor

morecomplexscenariosdesignedtocapturesalientriskstospecificbusinessgroups.M&TBankisalso

requiredtoconductannualstresstestingusingthesameeconomicandfinancialscenariosasM&Tand

reporttheresultstotheFederalReserveBoard.AsummaryofresultsoftheFederalReserveBoard™sanalysis

undertheadverseandseverelyadversestressscenarioswillbepubliclydisclosed,andthebankholding

companiessubjecttotherules,includingM&T,mustdiscloseasummaryofthecompany-runseverely

adversestresstestresults.M&Tisrequiredtoincludeinitsdisclosureasummaryoftheseverelyadverse

scenariostresstestconductedbyM&TBank.
Inaddition,bankholdingcompanieswithtotalconsolidatedassetsof$50billionormore,suchas
M&T,mustsubmitannualcapitalplansforapprovalaspartoftheFederalReserveBoard™sCCARprocess.

Coveredbankholdingcompaniesmayexecutecapitalactions,suchaspayingdividendsandrepurchasing

stock,onlyinaccordancewithacapitalplanthathasbeenreviewedandapprovedbytheFederalReserve

Board(oranyapprovedamendmentstosuchplan).Thecomprehensivecapitalplans,whicharecurrently

preparedusingBaselIcapitalguidelines,includeaviewofcapitaladequacyunderfourscenariosŠaBHC-

definedbaselinescenario,abaselinescenarioprovidedbytheFederalReserveBoard,atleastoneBHC-

definedstressscenario,andastressscenarioprovidedbytheFederalReserveBoard.TheCCARprocessis

intendedtohelpensurethatthesebankholdingcompanieshaverobust,forward-lookingcapitalplanning

processesthataccountforeachcompany™suniquerisksandthatpermitcontinuedoperationsduringtimes

ofeconomicandfinancialstress.EachofthebankholdingcompaniesparticipatingintheCCARprocessis

alsorequiredtocollectandreportcertainrelateddatatotheFederalReserveBoardonaquarterlybasisto

allowtheFederalReserveBoardtomonitorprogressagainsttheapprovedcapitalplans.Eachcapitalplan
12mustincludeaviewofcapitaladequacyunderthestresstestscenariosdescribedabove.TheFederalReserve
Boardmayobjecttoacapitalplaniftheplandoesnotshowthatthecoveredbankholdingcompanywill

maintainaTier1commonequityratio(asdefinedundertheBaselIframework)ofatleast5%onapro

formabasisunderexpectedandstressfulconditionsthroughoutthenine-quarterplanninghorizoncovered

bythecapitalplan.Evenifsuchquantitativethresholdsaremet,theFederalReserveBoardcouldobjecttoa

capitalplanforqualitativereasons,includinginadequateassumptionsintheplan,otherunresolved

supervisoryissuesoraninsufficientlyrobustcapitaladequacyprocess,orifthecapitalplanwouldotherwise

constituteanunsafeorunsoundpracticeorviolatelaw.TherulesalsoprovidethatacoveredBHCmaynot

makeacapitaldistributionunlessaftergivingeffecttothedistributionitwillmeetallminimumregulatory

capitalratiosandhavearatioofTier1commonequitytorisk-weightedassetsofatleast5%.TheCCAR

rules,consistentwithpriorFederalReserveBoardguidance,alsoprovidethatcapitalplanscontemplating

dividendpayoutratiosexceeding30%ofafter-taxnetincomewillreceiveparticularlyclosescrutiny.
InSeptember2013,theFederalReserveBoardissuedaninterimfinalruleamendingitsstresstestand
capitalplanrulestoclarifyhowbankholdingcompanieswithover$50billionintotalconsolidatedassets

shouldincorporatetherecentlyadoptedNewCapitalRulesforthe2014CCARprocessandthesupervisory

andcompanyrunstresstests.UndertheFederalReserveBoard™sinterimfinalrule,suchbankholding

companiesmustboth(i)projecttheirregulatorycapitalratiosandmeettherequiredminimumsunderthe

NewCapitalRulesforeachquarterofthenine-quarterplanninghorizoninaccordancewiththeminimum

capitalrequirementsthatareineffectduringthatquarterandsubjecttoappropriatephase-ins/phase-outs

underthenewrulesand(ii)continuetomeettheminimum5%Tier1commonequityratioascalculated

underthepreviouslygenerallyapplicablerisk-basedcapitalrules.M&T™smostrecentCCARcapitalplanwas

filedwiththeFederalReserveBoardonJanuary6,2014.
SafetyandSoundnessStandards
GuidelinesadoptedbythefederalbankregulatoryagenciespursuanttotheFederalDepositInsuranceAct,as

amended(theﬁFDIAﬂ),establishgeneralstandardsre
latingtointernalcontrolsandinformationsystems,
internalauditsystems,loandocumentation,creditunderwriting,interestrateexposure,assetgrowthand

compensation,feesandbenefits.Ingeneral,theseguidelinesrequire,amongotherthings,appropriatesystems

andpracticestoidentifyandmanagetheriskandexposuresspecifiedintheguidelines.Additionally,the

agenciesadoptedregulationsthatauthorize,butdonot
require,anagencytoorderaninstitutionthathasbeen
givennoticebyanagencythatitisnotsatisfyinganyofsuchsafetyandsoundnessstandardstosubmita

complianceplan.If,afterbeingsonotified,aninstitutionfailstosubmitanacceptablecomplianceplanorfails

inanymaterialrespecttoimplementanacceptablecomplianceplan,theagencymustissueanorderdirecting

actiontocorrectthedeficiencyandmayissueanorderdirectingotheractionsofthetypestowhichan

undercapitalizedinstitutionissubjectundertheﬁpromptcorrectiveactionﬂprovisionsoftheFDIA.See

ﬁRegulatoryRemediesundertheFDIAﬂbelow.Ifaninstitutionfailstocomplywithsuchanorder,theagency

mayseektoenforcesuchorderinjudicialproceedingsandtoimposecivilmoneypenalties.
RegulatoryRemediesundertheFDIA
TheFDIAestablishesasystemofregulatoryremediestoresolvetheproblemsofundercapitalized

institutions,referredtoasthepromptcorrectiveaction.Thefederalbankingregulatorshaveestablishedfive

capitalcategories(ﬁwell-capitalized,ﬂﬁadequatelycapitalized,ﬂﬁundercapitalized,ﬂﬁsignificantly

undercapitalizedﬂandﬁcriticallyundercapitalizedﬂ)andmusttakecertainmandatorysupervisoryactions,

andareauthorizedtotakeotherdiscretionaryactions,withrespecttoinstitutionswhichare

undercapitalized,significantlyundercapitalizedorcriticallyundercapitalized.Theseverityofthese

mandatoryanddiscretionarysupervisoryactionsdependsuponthecapitalcategoryinwhichtheinstitution

isplaced.Generally,subjecttoanarrowexception,theFDIArequiresthebankingregulatortoappointa

receiverorconservatorforaninstitutionthatiscriticallyundercapitalized.Thefederalbankregulatory

agencieshavespecifiedbyregulationtherelevantcapitallevelsforeachcategory:
ﬁWell-CapitalizedﬂﬁAdequatelyCapitalizedﬂ
LeverageRatioof5%,
Tier1Capitalratioof6%,

TotalCapitalratioof10%,and

Notsubjecttoawrittenagreement,order,capital

directiveorregulatoryremedydirectiverequiringa

specificcapitallevel.
LeverageRatioof4%,
Tier1Capitalratioof4%,and

TotalCapitalratioof8%.
13ﬁUndercapitalizedﬂﬁSignificantlyUndercapitalizedﬂ
LeverageRatiolessthan4%,
Tier1Capitalratiolessthan4%,or

TotalCapitalratiolessthan8%.
LeverageRatiolessthan3%,
Tier1Capitalratiolessthan3%,or

TotalCapitalratiolessthan6%.
ﬁCriticallyundercapitalizedﬂ
Tangibleequitytototalassetslessthan2%.
Forpurposesoftheseregulations,thetermﬁtangibleequityﬂincludescorecapitalelementscounted
asTier1Capitalforpurposesoftherisk-basedcapitalstandardsplustheamountofoutstandingcumulative

perpetualpreferredstock(includingrelatedsurplus),minusallintangibleassetswithcertainexceptions.
Aninstitutionthatisclassifiedaswell-capitalizedbasedonitscapitallevelsmaybeclassifiedas
adequatelycapitalized,andaninstitutionthatisadequatelycapitalizedorundercapitalizedbaseduponits

capitallevelsmaybetreatedasthoughitwereundercapitalizedorsignificantlyundercapitalized,

respectively,iftheappropriatefederalbankingagency,afternoticeandopportunityforhearing,determines

thatanunsafeorunsoundconditionoranunsafeorunsoundpracticewarrantssuchtreatment.
Aninstitutionthatiscategorizedasundercapitalized,significantlyundercapitalizedorcritically
undercapitalizedisrequiredtosubmitanacceptablecapitalrestorationplantoitsappropriatefederal

bankingregulator.UndertheFDIA,inorderforthecapitalrestorationplantobeacceptedbythe

appropriatefederalbankingagency,aBHCmustguaranteethatasubsidiarydepositoryinstitutionwill

complywithitscapitalrestorationplan,subjecttocertainlimitations.TheBHCmustalsoprovide

appropriateassurancesofperformance.TheobligationofacontrollingBHCundertheFDIAtofunda

capitalrestorationplanislimitedtothelesserof5.0%ofanundercapitalizedsubsidiary™sassetsorthe

amountrequiredtomeetregulatorycapitalrequirements.Anundercapitalizedinstitutionisalsogenerally

prohibitedfromincreasingitsaveragetotalassets,makingacquisitions,establishinganybranchesor

engaginginanynewlineofbusiness,exceptinaccordancewithanacceptedcapitalrestorationplanorwith

theapprovaloftheFDIC.Institutionsthataresignificantlyundercapitalizedorundercapitalizedandeither

failtosubmitanacceptablecapitalrestorationplanorfailtoimplementanapprovedcapitalrestoration

planmaybesubjecttoanumberofrequirementsandrestrictions,includingorderstosellsufficientvoting

stocktobecomeadequatelycapitalized,requirementstoreducetotalassetsandcessationofreceiptof

depositsfromcorrespondentbanks.Criticallyundercapitalizeddepositoryinstitutionsfailingtosubmitor

implementanacceptablecapitalrestorationplanaresubjecttoappointmentofareceiverorconservator.
TheNewCapitalRulesrevisethecurrentpromptcorrectiveactionrequirementseffectiveJanuary1,
2015by(i)introducingaCET1ratiorequirementateachlevel(otherthancriticallyundercapitalized),with

therequiredCET1ratiobeing6.5%forwell-capitalizedstatus;(ii)increasingtheminimumTier1capital

ratiorequirementforeachcategory(otherthancriticallyundercapitalized),withtheminimumTier1

capitalratioforwell-capitalizedstatusbeing8%(ascomparedtothecurrent6%);and(iii)eliminatingthe

currentprovisionthatprovidesthatabankwithacompositesupervisoryratingof1mayhavea3%leverage

ratioandstillbeadequatelycapitalized.TheNewCapitalRulesdonotchangethetotalrisk-basedcapital

requirementforanypromptcorrectiveactioncategory.
SupportofSubsidiaryBanks
UnderlongstandingFederalReserveBoardpolicywhichhasbeencodifiedbytheDodd-FrankAct,M&Tis

expectedtoactasasourceoffinancialstrengthto,andtocommitresourcestosupport,itssubsidiarybanks.

ThissupportmayberequiredattimeswhenM&Tmaynotbeinclinedorabletoprovideit.Inaddition,any

capitalloansbyaBHCtoasubsidiarybankaresubordinateinrightofpaymenttodepositsandtocertain

otherindebtednessofsuchsubsidiarybank.Intheeventofabankholdingcompany™sbankruptcy,any

commitmentbytheBHCtoafederalbankregulatoryagencytomaintainthecapitalofasubsidiarybank

willbeassumedbythebankruptcytrusteeandentitledtoapriorityofpayment.
Cross-GuaranteeProvisions
Eachinsureddepositoryinstitutionﬁcontrolledﬂ(asdefinedintheBHCA)bythesameBHCcanbeheld

liabletotheFDICforanylossincurred,orreasonablyexpectedtobeincurred,bytheFDICduetothe

defaultofanyotherinsureddepositoryinstitutioncontrolledbythatholdingcompanyandforany

assistanceprovidedbytheFDICtoanyofthosebanksthatisindangerofdefault.TheFDIC™sclaimunder

thecross-guaranteeprovisionsissuperiortoclaimsofshareholdersoftheinsureddepositoryinstitutionor
14itsholdingcompanyandtomostclaimsarisingoutofobligationsorliabilitiesowedtoaffiliatesofthe
institution,butissubordinatetoclaimsofdepositors,securedcreditorsandholdersofsubordinateddebt

(otherthanaffiliates)ofthecommonlycontrolledinsureddepositoryinstitution.TheFDICmaydeclineto

enforcethecross-guaranteeprovisionsifitdeterminesthatawaiverisinthebestinterestoftheDIF.
TransactionswithAffiliates
TherearevariouslegalrestrictionsontheextenttowhichM&Tanditsnon-banksubsidiariesmayborrow

orotherwiseobtainfundingfromM&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.Ingeneral,Sections23Aand23B

oftheFederalReserveBoardActandFederalReserveBoardRegulationWrequirethatanyﬁcovered

transactionﬂbyM&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.(oranyoftheirrespectivesubsidiaries)withan

affiliatemustincertaincasesbesecuredbydesignatedamountsofspecifiedcollateralandmustbelimitedas

follows:(a)inthecaseofanysinglesuchaffiliate,theaggregateamountofcoveredtransactionsofthe

insureddepositoryinstitutionanditssubsidiariesmaynotexceed10%ofthecapitalstockandsurplusof

suchinsureddepositoryinstitution,and(b)inthecaseofallaffiliates,theaggregateamountofcovered

transactionsofaninsureddepositoryinstitutionanditssubsidiariesmaynotexceed20%ofthecapitalstock

andsurplusofsuchinsureddepositoryinstitution.TheDodd-FrankActsignificantlyexpandedthecoverage

andscopeofthelimitationsonaffiliatetransactionswithinabankingorganization,includingforexample,

therequirementthatthe10%ofcapitallimitoncoveredtransactionsbegintoapplytofinancial

subsidiaries.ﬁCoveredtransactionsﬂaredefinedbystatutetoinclude,amongotherthings,aloanor

extensionofcredit,aswellasapurchaseofsecuritiesissuedbyanaffiliate,apurchaseofassets(unless

otherwiseexemptedbytheFederalReserveBoard)fromtheaffiliate,certainderivativetransactionsthat

createacreditexposuretoanaffiliate,theacceptanceofsecuritiesissuedbytheaffiliateascollateralfora

loan,andtheissuanceofaguarantee,acceptanceorletterofcreditonbehalfofanaffiliate.Allcovered

transactions,includingcertainadditionaltransactions(suchastransactionswithathirdpartyinwhichan

affiliatehasafinancialinterest),mustbeconductedonmarketterms.
FDICInsuranceAssessments
DepositInsuranceAssessments.
M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.paydepositinsurancepremiumsto
theFDICbasedonanassessmentrateestablishedbytheFDIC.Depositinsuranceassessmentsarebasedon

averagetotalassetsminusaveragetangibleequity.Forlargerinstitutions,suchasM&TBank,theFDICuses

aperformancescoreandaloss-severityscorethatareusedtocalculateaninitialassessmentrate.In

calculatingthesescores,theFDICusesabank™scapitallevelandsupervisoryratings(itsﬁCAMELSratingsﬂ)

andcertainfinancialmeasurestoassessaninstitution™sabilitytowithstandasset-relatedstressandfunding-

relatedstress.TheFDIChastheabilitytomakediscretionaryadjustmentstothetotalscorebasedupon

significantriskfactorsthatarenotadequatelycapturedinthecalculations.
Theinitialbaseassessmentraterangesfrom5to35basispointsonanannualizedbasis.Aftertheeffectof
potentialbase-rateadjustments,thetotalbaseassessmentratecouldrangefrom2.5to45basispointsonan

annualizedbasis.AstheDIFreserveratiogrows,therat
eschedulewillbeadjusteddownward.Additionally,an
institutionmustpayanadditionalpremiumequalto50basispointsoneverydollar(above3%ofaninstitution™s

Tier1capital)oflong-term,unsecureddebtheldthatwasissuedbyanotherinsureddepositoryinstitution

(excludingdebtguaranteedundertheTemporaryLiquidityGuaranteeProgram).
InOctober2010,theFDICadoptedanewDIFrestorationplantoensurethedesignatedreserveratio
reaches1.35%bySeptember2020.TheFDICwill,atleastsemi-annually,updateitsincomeandloss

projectionsfortheDIFand,ifnecessary,proposerulestofurtherincreaseassessmentrates.
UndertheFDIA,insuranceofdepositsmaybeterminatedbytheFDICuponafindingthatthe
institutionhasengagedinunsafeandunsoundpractices,isinanunsafeorunsoundconditiontocontinue

operations,orhasviolatedanyapplicablelaw,regulation,rule,orderorconditionimposedbytheFDIC.
FICOAssessments.
Inaddition,theDepositInsuranceFundsActof1996authorizedtheFinancing
Corporation(ﬁFICOﬂ)toimposeassessmentsonDIFapplicabledepositsinordertoservicetheintereston

FICO™sbondobligationsfromdepositinsurancefundassessments.Theamountassessedonindividual

institutionsbyFICOisinadditiontotheamount,ifany,paidfordepositinsuranceaccordingtotheFDIC™s

risk-relatedassessmentrateschedules.FICOassessmentratesmaybeadjustedquarterlytoreflectachange

inassessmentbase.M&TBankrecognized$5millionofexpenserelatedtoitsFICOassessmentsand

WilmingtonTrust,N.A.recognized$58thousandofsuchexpensein2013.
15AcquisitionsTheBHCArequireseveryBHCtoobtainthepriorapprovaloftheFederalReserveBoardbefore:(1)itmay

acquiredirectorindirectownershiporcontrolofanyvotingsharesofanybankorsavingsandloan

association,ifaftersuchacquisition,theBHCwilldirectlyorindirectlyownorcontrol5%ormoreofthe

votingsharesoftheinstitution;(2)itoranyofitssubsidiaries,otherthanabank,mayacquireallor

substantiallyalloftheassetsofanybankorsavingsandloanassociation;or(3)itmaymergeorconsolidate

withanyotherBHC.SinceJuly2011,financialholdingcompaniesandbankholdingcompanieswith

consolidatedassetsexceeding$50billion,suchasM&T,havebeenrequiredto(i)obtainpriorapproval

fromtheFederalReserveBoardbeforeacquiringcertainnonbankfinancialcompanieswithassetsexceeding

$10billionand(ii)providepriorwrittennoticetotheFederalReserveBoardbeforeacquiringdirector

indirectownershiporcontrolofanyvotingsharesofanycompanyhavingconsolidatedassetsof$10billion

ormore.SinceJuly2011,bankholdingcompaniesseekingapprovaltocompleteanacquisitionhavebeen

requiredtobewell-capitalizedandwell-managed.
TheBHCAfurtherprovidesthattheFederalReserveBoardmaynotapproveanytransactionthat
wouldresultinamonopolyorwouldbeinfurtheranceofanycombinationorconspiracytomonopolizeor

attempttomonopolizethebusinessofbankinginanysectionoftheUnitedStates,ortheeffectofwhich

maybesubstantiallytolessencompetitionortotendtocreateamonopolyinanysectionofthecountry,or

thatinanyothermannerwouldbeinrestraintoftrade,unlesstheanticompetitiveeffectsoftheproposed

transactionareclearlyoutweighedbythepublicinterestinmeetingtheconvenienceandneedsofthe

communitytobeserved.TheFederalReserveBoardisalsorequiredtoconsiderthefinancialand

managerialresourcesandfutureprospectsofthebankholdingcompaniesandbanksconcernedandthe

convenienceandneedsofthecommunitytobeserved.Considerationoffinancialresourcesgenerally

focusesoncapitaladequacy,andconsiderationofconvenienceandneedsissuesincludestheparties™

performanceundertheCRAandcompliancewithconsumerprotectionlaws.TheFederalReserveBoard

musttakeintoaccounttheinstitutions™effectivenessincombatingmoneylaundering.Inaddition,pursuant

totheDodd-FrankAct,theBHCAwasamendedtorequiretheFederalReserveBoard,whenevaluatinga

proposedtransaction,toconsidertheextenttowhichthetransactionwouldresultingreaterormore

concentratedriskstothestabilityoftheUnitedStatesbankingorfinancialsystem.
ExecutiveandIncentiveCompensation
GuidelinesadoptedbythefederalbankingagenciespursuanttotheFDIAprohibitexcessivecompensation

asanunsafeandunsoundpracticeanddescribecompensationasexcessivewhentheamountspaidare

unreasonableordisproportionatetotheservicesperformedbyanexecutiveofficer,employee,directoror

principalstockholder.InJune2010,theFederalReserveBoardissuedcomprehensiveguidanceonincentive

compensationpolicies(theﬁIncentiveCompensationGuidanceﬂ)intendedtoensurethattheincentive

compensationpoliciesofbankingorganizationsdonotunderminethesafetyandsoundnessofsuch

organizationsbyencouragingexcessiverisk-taking.TheIncentiveCompensationGuidance,whichcoversall

employeesthathavetheabilitytomateriallyaffecttheriskprofileofanorganization,eitherindividuallyor

aspartofagroup,isbaseduponthekeyprinciplesthatabankingorganization™sincentivecompensation

arrangementsshould(i)provideincentivesthatdonotencouragerisk-takingbeyondtheorganization™s

abilitytoeffectivelyidentifyandmanagerisks,(ii)becompatiblewitheffectiveinternalcontrolsandrisk

management,and(iii)besupportedbystrongcorporategovernance,includingactiveandeffectiveoversight

bytheorganization™sboardofdirectors.Thesethreeprinciplesareincorporatedintotheproposedjoint

compensationregulationsundertheDodd-FrankAct,discussedbelow.Anydeficienciesincompensation

practicesthatareidentifiedmaybeincorporatedintotheorganization™ssupervisoryratings,whichcan

affectitsabilitytomakeacquisitionsorperformotheractions.TheIncentiveCompensationGuidance

providesthatenforcementactionsmaybetakenagainstabankingorganizationifitsincentive

compensationarrangementsorrelatedrisk-managementcontrolorgovernanceprocessesposearisktothe

organization™ssafetyandsoundnessandtheorganizationisnottakingpromptandeffectivemeasuresto

correctthedeficiencies.
TheDodd-FrankActrequiresthefederalbankregulatoryagenciesandtheSECtoestablishjoint
regulationsorguidelinesprohibitingincentive-basedpaymentarrangementsatspecifiedregulatedentities,

suchasM&TandM&TBank,havingatleast$1billionintotalassetsthatencourageinappropriaterisksby

providinganexecutiveofficer,employee,directororprincipalshareholderwithexcessivecompensation,

fees,orbenefitsorthatcouldleadtomaterialfinanciallosstotheentity.Inaddition,theseregulatorsmust

establishregulationsorguidelinesrequiringenhanceddisclosuretoregulatorsofincentive-based
16compensationarrangements.TheagenciesproposedsuchregulationsinApril2011,andifthefinal
regulationsareadoptedintheforminitiallyproposed,theywillimposelimitationsonthemannerinwhich

M&Tmaystructurecompensationforitsexecutives.
ThescopeandcontentoftheU.S.bankingregulators™policiesonincentivecompensationare
continuingtodevelopandarelikelytocontinueevolvinginthefuture.Itcannotbedeterminedatthistime

whethercompliancewithsuchpolicieswilladverselyaffecttheabilityofM&Tanditssubsidiariestohire,

retainandmotivatetheirkeyemployees.
ResolutionPlanning
Bankholdingcompanieswithconsolidatedassetsof$50billionormore,suchasM&T,arerequiredto

reportperiodicallytoregulatorsaresolutionplanfortheirrapidandorderlyresolutionintheeventof

materialfinancialdistressorfailure.M&T™sresolutionplanmust,amongotherthings,ensurethatits

depositoryinstitutionsubsidiariesareadequatelyprotectedfromrisksarisingfromitsothersubsidiaries.

TheregulationadoptedbytheFederalReserveandFDICsetsspecificstandardsfortheresolutionplans,

includingrequiringastrategicanalysisoftheplan™scomponents,adescriptionoftherangeofspecific

actionsthecompanyproposestotakeinresolution,andadescriptionofthecompany™sorganizational

structure,materialentities,interconnectionsandinterdependencies,andmanagementinformationsystems,

amongotherelements.Inaddition,insureddepositoryinstitutionswith$50billionormoreintotalassets,

suchasM&TBank,arerequiredtosubmittotheFDICperiodicplansforresolutionintheeventofthe

institution™sfailure.M&TandM&TBanksubmittedtheirresolutionplansonDecember13,2013.
InsolvencyofanInsuredDepositoryInstitutionoraBankHoldingCompany
IftheFDICisappointedasconservatororreceiverforaninsureddepositoryinstitutionsuchasM&TBank

orWilmingtonTrust,N.A.,uponitsinsolvencyorincertainotherevents,theFDIChasthepower:
Štotransferanyofthedepositoryinstitution™sassetsandliabilitiestoanewobligor,includinganewly

formedﬁbridgeﬂbankwithouttheapprovalofthedepositoryinstitution™screditors;
Štoenforcethetermsofthedepositoryinstitution™scontractspursuanttotheirtermswithoutregard

toanyprovisionstriggeredbytheappointmentoftheFDICinthatcapacity;or
Štorepudiateordisaffirmanycontractorleasetowhichthedepositoryinstitutionisaparty,the

performanceofwhichisdeterminedbytheFDICtobeburdensomeandthedisaffirmanceor

repudiationofwhichisdeterminedbytheFDICtopromotetheorderlyadministrationofthe

depositoryinstitution.
Inaddition,underfederallaw,theclaimsofholdersofdomesticdepositliabilitiesandcertainclaims
foradministrativeexpensesagainstaninsureddepositoryinstitutionwouldbeaffordedapriorityoverother

generalunsecuredclaimsagainstsuchaninstitution,includingclaimsofdebtholdersoftheinstitution,in

theﬁliquidationorotherresolutionﬂofsuchaninstitutionbyanyreceiver.Asaresult,whetherornotthe

FDICeversoughttorepudiateanydebtobligationsofM&TBankorWilmingtonTrust,N.A.,thedebt

holderswouldbetreateddifferentlyfrom,andcouldreceive,ifanything,substantiallylessthan,the

depositorsofthebank.TheDodd-FrankActcreatedanewresolutionregime(knownasﬁorderlyliquidation

authorityﬂ)forsystemicallyimportantnon-bankfinancialcompanies,includingbankholdingcompanies

andtheiraffiliates.Undertheorderlyliquidationauthority,theFDICmaybeappointedasreceiverforthe

systemicallyimportantinstitution,anditsfailednon-banksubsidiaries,forpurposesofliquidatingthe

entityif,amongotherconditions,itisdeterminedatthetimeoftheinstitution™sfailurethatitisindefault

orindangerofdefaultandthefailureposesarisktothestabilityoftheU.S.financialsystem.
IftheFDICisappointedasreceiverundertheorderlyliquidationauthority,thenthepowersofthe
receiver,andtherightsandobligationsofcreditorsandotherpartieswhohavedealtwiththeinstitution,

wouldbedeterminedundertheDodd-FrankActprovisions,andnotundertheinsolvencylawthatwould

otherwiseapply.Thepowersofthereceiverundertheorderlyliquidationauthoritywerebasedonthe

powersoftheFDICasreceiverfordepositoryinstitutionsundertheFDIA.However,theprovisions

governingtherightsofcreditorsundertheorderlyliquidationauthorityweremodifiedincertainrespectsto

reducedisparitieswiththetreatmentofcreditors™claimsundertheU.S.BankruptcyCodeascomparedto

thetreatmentofthoseclaimsunderthenewauthority.Nonetheless,substantialdifferencesintherightsof

creditorsexistasbetweenthesetworegimes,includingtherightoftheFDICtodisregardthestrictpriority

ofcreditorclaimsinsomecircumstances,theuseofanadministrativeclaimsproceduretodetermine

creditors™claims(asopposedtothejudicialprocedureutilizedinbankruptcyproceedings),andtherightof

theFDICtotransferclaimstoaﬁbridgeﬂentity.
17Anorderlyliquidationfundwillfundsuchliquidationproceedingsthroughborrowingsfromthe
TreasuryDepartmentandrisk-basedassessmentsmade,first,onentitiesthatreceivedmoreintheresolution

thantheywouldhavereceivedinliquidationtotheextentofsuchexcess,andsecond,ifnecessary,onbank

holdingcompanieswithtotalconsolidatedassetsof$50billionormore,suchasM&T.Ifanorderly

liquidationistriggered,M&Tcouldfaceassessmentsfortheorderlyliquidationfund.
TheFDIChasdevelopedastrategyundertheorderlyliquidationauthorityreferredtoastheﬁsingle
pointofentryﬂstrategy,underwhichtheFDICwouldresolveafailedfinancialholdingcompanyby

transferringitsassets(includingsharesofitsoperatingsubsidiaries)and,potentially,verylimitedliabilities

toaﬁbridgeﬂholdingcompany;utilizetheresourcesofthefailedfinancialholdingcompanytorecapitalize

theoperatingsubsidiaries;andsatisfytheclaimsofunsecuredcreditorsofthefailedfinancialholding

companyandotherclaimantsinthereceivershipbydeliveringsecuritiesofoneormorenewfinancial

companiesthatwouldemergefromthebridgeholdingcompany.Underthisstrategy,managementofthe

failedfinancialholdingcompanywouldbereplacedandshareholdersandcreditorsofthefailedfinancial

holdingcompanywouldbearthelossesresultingfromthefailure.TheFDICissuedanoticeinDecember

2013describingsomeelementsofthissinglepointofentrystrategyandseekingpubliccommenttofurther

developthestrategy.TheorderlyliquidationauthorityprovisionsoftheDodd-FrankActbecameeffective

uponenactment.However,anumberofrulemakingsarerequiredunderthetermsofDodd-Frank,anda

numberofprovisionsofthenewauthorityrequireclarification.
DepositorPreference
Underfederallaw,depositorsandcertainclaimsforadministrativeexpensesandemployeecompensation

againstaninsureddepositoryinstitutionwouldbeaffordedapriorityoverothergeneralunsecuredclaims

againstsuchaninstitutionintheﬁliquidationorotherresolutionﬂofsuchaninstitutionbyanyreceiver.If

aninsureddepositoryinstitutionfails,insuredanduninsureddepositors,alongwiththeFDIC,willhave

priorityinpaymentaheadofunsecured,non-depositcreditors,includingdepositorswhosedepositsare

payableonlyoutsideoftheUnitedStatesandtheparentBHC,withrespecttoanyextensionsofcreditthey

havemadetosuchinsureddepositoryinstitution.
FinancialPrivacy
Thefederalbankingregulatorshaveadoptedrulesthatlimittheabilityofbanksandotherfinancial

institutionstodisclosenon-publicinformationaboutconsumerstonon-affiliatedthirdparties.These

limitationsrequiredisclosureofprivacypoliciestoconsumersand,insomecircumstances,allowconsumers

topreventdisclosureofcertainpersonalinformationtoanon-affiliatedthirdparty.Theseregulationsaffect

howconsumerinformationistransmittedthroughdiversifiedfinancialcompaniesandconveyedtooutside

vendors.Inaddition,consumersmayalsopreventdisclosureofcertaininformationamongaffiliated

companiesthatisassembledorusedtodetermineeligibilityforaproductorservice,suchasthatshownon

consumercreditreportsandassetandincomeinformationfromapplications.Consumersalsohavethe

optiontodirectbanksandotherfinancialinstitutionsnottoshareinformationabouttransactionsand

experienceswithaffiliatedcompaniesforthepurposeofmarketingproductsorservices.
ConsumerProtectionLaws
Inconnectionwiththeirrespectivelendingandleasingactivities,M&TBank,WilmingtonTrust,N.A.and

certainoftheirsubsidiaries,areeachsubjecttoanumberoffederalandstatelawsdesignedtoprotect

borrowersandpromotelendingtovarioussectorsoftheeconomy.TheselawsincludetheEqualCredit

OpportunityAct,theFairCreditReportingAct,theFairandAccurateCreditTransactionsAct,theTruthin

LendingAct,theHomeMortgageDisclosureAct,andtheRealEstateSettlementProceduresAct,and

variousstatelawcounterparts.
Inaddition,federallawcurrentlycontainsextensivecustomerprivacyprotectionprovisions.Under
theseprovisions,afinancialinstitutionmustprovidetoitscustomers,attheinceptionofthecustomer

relationshipandannuallythereafter,theinstitution™spoliciesandproceduresregardingthehandlingof

customers™nonpublicpersonalfinancialinformation.Theseprovisionsalsoprovidethat,exceptforcertain

limitedexceptions,afinancialinstitutionmaynotprovidesuchpersonalinformationtounaffiliatedthird

partiesunlesstheinstitutiondisclosestothecustomerthatsuchinformationmaybesoprovidedandthe

customerisgiventheopportunitytooptoutofsuchdisclosure.Federallawmakesitacriminaloffense,

exceptinlimitedcircumstances,toobtainorattempttoobtaincustomerinformationofafinancialnature

byfraudulentordeceptivemeans.
18SinceJuly1,2010,afederalbankingruleundertheElectronicFundTransferActprohibitsfinancial
institutionsfromchargingconsumersfeesforpayingoverdraftsonautomatedtellermachines(ﬁATMﬂ)and

one-timedebitcardtransactions,unlessaconsumerconsents,oroptsin,totheoverdraftserviceforthose

typeoftransactions.Ifaconsumerdoesnotoptin,anyATMtransactionordebitthatoverdrawsthe

consumer™saccountwillbedenied.Overdraftsonthepaymentofchecksandregularelectronicbill

paymentsarenotcoveredbythisnewrule.Beforeoptingin,theconsumermustbeprovidedanoticethat

explainsthefinancialinstitution™soverdraftservices,includingthefeesassociatedwiththeservice,andthe

consumer™schoices.Financialinstitutionsmustprovideconsumerswhodonotoptinwiththesame

accountterms,conditionsandfeatures(includingpricing)thattheyprovidetoconsumerswhodooptin.
ConsumerFinancialProtectionBureauSupervision
M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.aresupervisedbytheCFPBforcertainconsumerprotection

purposes.TheCFPBhasfocusedon:
Šriskstoconsumersandcompliancewiththefederalconsumerfinanciallaws,whenitevaluatesthe

policiesandpracticesofafinancialinstitution;
Šthemarketsinwhichfirmsoperateandriskstoconsumersposedbyactivitiesinthosemarkets;
Šdepositoryinstitutionsthatofferawidevarietyofconsumerfinancialproductsandservices;
Šdepositoryinstitutionswithamorespecializedfocus;and
Šnon-depositorycompaniesthatofferoneormoreconsumerfinancialproductsorservices.
CommunityReinvestmentAct
M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.aresubjecttotheprovisionsoftheCRA.Underthetermsofthe

CRA,eachappropriatefederalbankregulatoryagencyisrequired,inconnectionwithitsexaminationofa

bank,toassesssuchbank™srecordinassessingandmeetingthecreditneedsofthecommunitiesservedby

thatbank,includinglow-andmoderate-incomeneighborhoods.Duringtheseexaminations,theregulatory

agencyratessuchbank™scompliancewiththeCRAasﬁOutstanding,ﬂﬁSatisfactory,ﬂﬁNeedstoImproveﬂor

ﬁSubstantialNoncompliance.ﬂTheregulatoryagency™sassessmentoftheinstitution™srecordispartofthe

regulatoryagency™sconsiderationofapplicationstoacquire,mergeorconsolidatewithanotherbanking

institutionoritsholdingcompany,ortoopenorrelocateabranchoffice.Currently,M&TBankhasaCRA

ratingofﬁOutstandingﬂandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.hasaCRAratingofﬁSatisfactory.ﬂInthecaseofa

BHCapplyingforapprovaltoacquireabankorBHC,theFederalReserveBoardwillassesstherecordof

eachsubsidiarybankoftheapplicantBHCinconsideringtheapplication,andsuchrecordsmaybethebasis

fordenyingtheapplication.TheBankingLawcontainsprovisionssimilartotheCRAwhichareapplicable

toNewYork-charteredbanks.Currently,M&TBankhasaCRAratingofﬁOutstandingﬂasdeterminedby

theNewYorkStateDepartmentofFinancialServices.
USAPatriotAct
TheUnitingandStrengtheningAmericabyProvidingAppropriateToolsRequiredtoInterceptand

ObstructTerrorismActof2001(theﬁUSAPatriotActﬂ)imposesobligationsonU.S.financialinstitutions,

includingbanksandbroker/dealersubsidiaries,toimplementandmaintainappropriatepolicies,procedures

andcontrolswhicharereasonablydesignedtoprevent,detectandreportinstancesofmoneylaunderingand

thefinancingofterrorismandtoverifytheidentityoftheircustomers.Inaddition,provisionsoftheUSA

PatriotActrequirethefederalfinancialinstitutionregulatoryagenciestoconsidertheeffectivenessofa

financialinstitution™santi-moneylaunderingactivitieswhenreviewingbankmergersandBHCacquisitions.

Failureofafinancialinstitutiontomaintainandimplementadequateprogramstocombatmoney

launderingandterroristfinancingcouldhaveseriouslegalandreputationalconsequencesforthe

institution.AsaresultofaninspectionbytheFederalReserveBankofNewYork(ﬁFederalReserveBankﬂ),

M&TandM&TBankenteredintoawrittenagreementwiththeFederalReserveBankrelatedtoM&T

Bank™sBankSecrecyAct/Anti-MoneyLaunderingProgram.AdditionalinformationisincludedinPartII,

Item7underthecaptionﬁCorporateProfileandSignificantDevelopments.ﬂ
OfficeofForeignAssetsControlRegulation
TheUnitedStateshasimposedeconomicsanctionsthataffecttransactionswithdesignatedforeign

countries,nationalsandothers.ThesearetypicallyknownastheﬁOFACﬂrulesbasedontheir

administrationbytheU.S.TreasuryDepartmentOfficeofForeignAssetsControl(ﬁOFACﬂ).The

OFAC-administeredsanctionstargetingcountriestakemanydifferentforms.Generally,however,they

containoneormoreofthefollowingelements:(i)restrictionsontradewithorinvestmentinasanctioned
19country,includingprohibitionsagainstdirectorindirectimportsfromandexportstoasanctionedcountry
andprohibitionsonﬁU.S.personsﬂengaginginfinancialtransactionsrelatingtomakinginvestmentsin,or

providinginvestment-relatedadviceorassistanceto,asanctionedcountry;and(ii)ablockingofassetsin

whichthegovernmentorspeciallydesignatednationalsofthesanctionedcountryhaveaninterest,by

prohibitingtransfersofpropertysubjecttoU.S.jurisdiction(includingpropertyinthepossessionorcontrol

ofU.S.persons).Blockedassets(e.g.propertyandbankdeposits)cannotbepaidout,withdrawn,setoffor

transferredinanymannerwithoutalicensefromOFAC.Failuretocomplywiththesesanctionscouldhave

seriouslegalandreputationalconsequences.
RegulationofInsurersandInsuranceBrokers
TheCompany™soperationsintheareasofinsurancebrokerageandreinsuranceofcreditlifeinsuranceare

subjecttoregulationandsupervisionbyvariousstateinsuranceregulatoryauthorities.Althoughthescope

ofregulationandformofsupervisionmayvaryfromstatetostate,insurancelawsgenerallygrantbroad

discretiontoregulatoryauthoritiesinadoptingregulationsandsupervisingregulatedactivities.This

supervisiongenerallyincludesthelicensingofinsurancebrokersandagentsandtheregulationofthe

handlingofcustomerfundsheldinafiduciarycapacity.CertainofM&T™sinsurancecompanysubsidiaries

aresubjecttoextensiveregulatorysupervisionandtoinsurancelawsandregulationsrequiring,amongother

things,maintenanceofcapital,recordkeeping,reportingandexaminations.
GovernmentalPolicies
TheearningsoftheCompanyaresignificantlyaffectedbythemonetaryandfiscalpoliciesofgovernmental

authorities,includingtheFederalReserveBoard.Amongtheinstrumentsofmonetarypolicyusedbythe

FederalReserveBoardtoimplementtheseobjectivesareopen-marketoperationsinU.S.Government

securitiesandfederalfunds,changesinthediscountrateonmemberbankborrowingsandchangesin

reserverequirementsagainstmemberbankdeposits.Theseinstrumentsofmonetarypolicyareusedin

varyingcombinationstoinfluencetheoveralllevelofbankloans,investmentsanddeposits,andtheinterest

rateschargedonloansandpaidfordeposits.TheFederalReserveBoardfrequentlyusestheseinstrumentsof

monetarypolicy,especiallyitsopen-marketoperationsandthediscountrate,toinfluencethelevelof

interestratesandtoaffectthestrengthoftheeconomy,thelevelofinflationorthepriceofthedollarin

foreignexchangemarkets.ThemonetarypoliciesoftheFederalReserveBoardhavehadasignificanteffect

ontheoperatingresultsofbankinginstitutionsinthepastandareexpectedtocontinuetodosointhe

future.Itisnotpossibletopredictthenatureoffuturechangesinmonetaryandfiscalpolicies,ortheeffect

whichtheymayhaveontheCompany™sbusinessandearnings.
CompetitionTheCompanycompetesinofferingcommercialandpersonalfinancialserviceswithotherbanking

institutionsandwithfirmsinanumberofotherindustries,suchasthriftinstitutions,creditunions,

personalloancompanies,salesfinancecompanies,leasingcompanies,securitiesfirmsandinsurance

companies.Furthermore,diversifiedfinancialservicescompaniesareabletoofferacombinationofthese

servicestotheircustomersonanationwidebasis.TheCompany™soperationsaresignificantlyimpactedby

stateandfederalregulationsapplicabletothebankingindustry.Moreover,theprovisionsoftheGramm-

Leach-BlileyActof1999,theInterstateBankingActandtheBankingLawhaveallowedforincreased

competitionamongdiversifiedfinancialservicesproviders.
OtherLegislativeandRegulatoryInitiatives
ProposalsmaybeintroducedintheUnitedStatesCongressandstatelegislatures,aswellasbyregulatory

agencies.Suchinitiativesmayincludeproposalstoexpandorcontractthepowersofbankholding

companiesanddepositoryinstitutionsorproposalstosubstantiallychangethefinancialinstitution

regulatorysystem.Suchlegislationcouldchangebankingstatutesandtheoperatingenvironmentofthe

Companyinsubstantialandunpredictableways.Ifenacted,suchlegislationcouldincreaseordecreasethe

costofdoingbusiness,limitorexpandpermissibleactivitiesoraffectthecompetitivebalanceamongbanks,

savingsassociations,creditunions,andotherfinancialinstitutions.Achangeinstatutes,regulationsor

regulatorypoliciesapplicabletoM&Toranyofitssubsidiariescouldhaveamaterialeffectonthebusiness,

financialconditionorresultsofoperationsoftheCompany.
20OtherInformation
ThroughalinkontheInvestorRelationssectionofM&T™swebsiteatwww.mtb.com,copiesofM&T™s

AnnualReportsonForm10-K,QuarterlyReportsonForm10-QandCurrentReportsonForm8-K,and

amendmentstothosereportsfiledorfurnishedpursuanttoSection13(a)or15(d)oftheExchangeAct,are

madeavailable,freeofcharge,assoonasreasonablypracticableafterelectronicallyfilingsuchmaterialwith,

orfurnishingitto,theSEC.Copiesofsuchreportsandotherinformationarealsoavailableatnochargeto

anypersonwhorequeststhemoratwww.sec.gov.SuchrequestsmaybedirectedtoM&TBank

Corporation,ShareholderRelationsDepartment,OneM&TPlaza,8thFloor,Buffalo,NY14203-2399

(Telephone:(716)842-5138).
CorporateGovernance
M&T™sCorporateGovernanceStandardsandthefollowingcorporategovernancedocumentsarealso

availableonM&T™swebsiteattheInvestorRelationslink:DisclosureandRegulationFDPolicy;Executive

CommitteeCharter;Nomination,CompensationandGovernanceCommitteeCharter;AuditCommittee

Charter;RiskCommitteeCharter;FinancialReportingandDisclosureControlsandProceduresPolicy;

CodeofEthicsforCEOandSeniorFinancialOfficers;CodeofBusinessConductandEthics;andEmployee

ComplaintProceduresforAccountingandAuditingMatters.Copiesofsuchgovernancedocumentsarealso

available,freeofcharge,toanypersonwhorequeststhem.SuchrequestsmaybedirectedtoM&TBank

Corporation,ShareholderRelationsDepartment,OneM&TPlaza,8thFloor,Buffalo,NY14203-2399

(Telephone:(716)842-5138).
StatisticalDisclosurePursuanttoGuide3
Seecross-referencesheetfordisclosuresincorporatedelsewhereinthisAnnualReportonForm10-K.

Additionalinformationisincludedinthefollowingtables.
21Table1
SELECTEDCONSOLIDATEDYEAR-ENDBALANCES
20132012201120102009(Inthousands)
Interest-bearingdepositsatbanks
......$
1,651,138$129,945$154,960$101,222$133,335
Federalfundssold
...................99,5733,0002,85025,00020,119
Tradingaccount
....................376,131488,966561,834523,834386,984
Investmentsecurities
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies...7,770,7674,007,7255,200,4894,177,7834,006,968

Obligationsofstatesandpolitical
subdivisions...................180,495203,004228,949251,544266,748
Other...........................845,2351,863,6322,243,7162,721,2133,506,893
Totalinvestmentsecurities
.......8,796,4976,074,3617,673,1547,150,5407,780,609
Loansandleases
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc....18,876,16617,973,14015,952,10513,645,60013,790,737

RealestateŠconstruction
.........4,457,6503,772,4134,203,3244,332,6184,726,570
RealestateŠmortgage
............30,711,44033,494,35928,202,21722,854,16021,747,533
Consumer.......................10,280,52711,550,27412,020,22911,483,56412,041,617
Totalloansandleases
............64,325,78366,790,18660,377,87552,315,94252,306,457
Unearneddiscount
................(252,624)(219,229)(281,870)(325,560)(369,771)
Loansandleases,netofunearned
discount....................64,073,15966,570,95760,096,00551,990,38251,936,686
Allowanceforcreditlosses
..........(916,676)(925,860)(908,290)(902,941)(878,022)
Loansandleases,net
............63,156,48365,645,09759,187,71551,087,44151,058,664
Goodwill..........................3,524,6253,524,6253,524,6253,524,6253,524,625
Coredepositandotherintangible
assets...........................68,851115,763176,394125,917182,418
Realestateandotherassetsowned
.....66,875104,279156,592220,04994,604
Totalassets
........................85,162,39183,008,80377,924,28768,021,26368,880,399
Noninterest-bearingdeposits
.........24,661,00724,240,80220,017,88314,557,56813,794,636
NOWaccounts
.....................1,989,4411,979,6191,912,2261,393,3491,396,471
Savingsdeposits
....................36,621,58033,783,94731,001,08326,431,28123,676,798
Timedeposits
......................3,523,8384,562,3666,107,5305,817,1707,531,495
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
......322,7461,044,519355,9271,605,9161,050,438
Totaldeposits
..................67,118,61265,611,25359,394,64949,805,28447,449,838
Short-termborrowings
..............260,4551,074,482782,082947,4322,442,582
Long-termborrowings
...............5,108,8704,607,7586,686,2267,840,15110,240,016
Totalliabilities
.....................73,856,85972,806,21068,653,07859,663,56861,127,492
Shareholders™equity
.................11,305,53210,202,5939,271,2098,357,6957,752,907
Table2
SHAREHOLDERS,EMPLOYEESANDOFFICES
NumberatYear-End
20132012201120102009Shareholders.....................................15,01515,62315,95912,77313,207
Employees.......................................15,89314,94315,66613,36514,226
Offices..........................................796799849778832
22Table3
CONSOLIDATEDEARNINGS
20132012201120102009(Inthousands)
Interestincome
Loansandleases,includingfees
...................$2,734,708$2,704,156$2,522,567$2,394,082$2,326,748
Depositsatbanks
..............................5,2011,2212,9348834
Federalfundssold
.............................10421574263
Resellagreements
..............................10Š13240466
Tradingaccount
...............................1,2651,1261,198615534
Investmentsecurities
Fullytaxable
................................209,244227,116256,057324,695389,268
Exemptfromfederaltaxes
.....................6,8028,0459,1429,8698,484
Totalinterestincome
.........................2,957,3342,941,6852,792,0872,729,7952,725,197
Interestexpense
NOWaccounts
................................1,2871,3431,1458501,122
Savingsdeposits
...............................54,94868,01184,31485,226112,550
Timedeposits
.................................26,43946,10271,014100,241206,220
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
.................1,0181,1309621,3682,391
Short-termborrowings
.........................430
1,2861,0303,0067,129
Long-termborrowings
..........................199,983225,297243,866271,578340,037
Totalinterestexpense
.........................284,105343,169402,331462,269669,449
Netinterestincome
............................2,673,2292,598,5162,389,7562,267,5262,055,748
Provisionforcreditlosses
.......................185,000204,000270,000368,000604,000
Netinterestincomeafterprovisionforcreditlosses...2,488,2292,394,5162,119,7561,899,5261,451,748
Otherincome
Mortgagebankingrevenues
......................331,265349,064166,021184,625207,561
Servicechargesondepositaccounts
...............446,941446,698455,095478,133469,195
Trustincome
.................................496,008471,852332,385122,613128,568
Brokerageservicesincome
.......................65,64759,05956,47049,66957,611
Tradingaccountandforeignexchangegains
........40,82835,63427,22427,28623,125
Gainonbankinvestmentsecurities
................56,4579150,1872,7701,165
Totalother-than-temporaryimpairment(ﬁOTTIﬂ)
losses......................................(1,884)(32,067)(72,915)(115,947)(264,363)
PortionofOTTIlossesrecognizedinother
comprehensiveincome(beforetaxes)
............(7,916)(15,755)(4,120)29,666126,066
NetOTTIlossesrecognizedinearnings
............(9,800)(47,822)(77,035)(86,281)(138,297)
EquityinearningsofBayviewLendingGroupLLC...(16,126)(21,511)(24,231)(25,768)(25,898)

Otherrevenuesfromoperations
..................453,985374,287496,796355,053325,076
Totalotherincome
...........................1,865,2051,667,2701,582,9121,108,1001,048,106
Otherexpense
Salariesandemployeebenefits
....................1,355,1781,314,5401,203,993999,7091,001,873
Equipmentandnetoccupancy
...................264,327257,551249,514216,064211,391
Printing,postageandsupplies
....................39,55741,92940,91733,84738,216
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangible
assets......................................46,91260,63161,61758,10364,255
FDICassessments
..............................69,584101,110100,23079,32496,519
Othercostsofoperations
........................860,327733,499821,797527,790568,309
Totalotherexpense
..........................2,635,8852,509,2602,478,0681,914,8371,980,563
Incomebeforeincometaxes
.....................1,717,5491,552,5261,224,6001,092,789519,291
Incometaxes
..................................579,069523,028365,121356,628139,400
Netincome
...................................$1,138,480$1,029,498$859,479$736,161$379,891
Dividendsdeclared
Common..................................$
365,171$357,862$350,196$335,502$326,617
Preferred...................................53,45053,45048,20340,22531,946
23Table4
COMMONSHAREHOLDERDATA
20132012201120102009Pershare
Netincome
Basic........................................$8.26$
7.57$6.37$5.72$2.90
Diluted......................................8.207.546.355.692.89
Cashdividendsdeclared
..........................2.802.802.802.802.80
Commonshareholders™equityatyear-end
...........79.8172.7366.8263.5459.31
Tangiblecommonshareholders™equityatyear-end
....52.4544.6137.7933.2628.27
Dividendpayoutratio
............................33.94%36.98%44.15%48.98%97.36%
Table5
CHANGESININTERESTINCOMEANDEXPENSE(a)
2013Comparedwith2012
2012Comparedwith2011
TotalChangeResultingfrom
Changesin:
TotalChangeResultingfrom
Changesin:
VolumeRateVolumeRate(Increase(decrease)inthousands)
Interestincome
Loansandleases,includingfees
..............$
29,624100,052(70,428)$182,621286,590(103,969)
Depositsatbanks
.........................3,9803,92555(1,713)(1,499)(214)
Federalfundssoldandagreementstoresell
securities..............................93128
(35)(168)(346)178
Tradingaccount
..........................88
(298)386(17)30(47)
Investmentsecurities
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
..........15,37919,078(3,699)(4,839)13,157(17,996)
Obligationsofstatesandpolitical
subdivisions.........................(1,639)(1,339)(300)(2,066)(1,312)(754)
Other.................................(33,296)(30,940)(2,356)(23,705)(16,104)(7,601)
Totalinterestincome
....................$
14,229$150,113
Interestexpense
Interest-bearingdeposits
NOWaccounts
.........................$
(56)110(166)$19813464
Savingsdeposits
........................(13,063)5,798(18,861)(16,303)8,292(24,595)
Timedeposits
..........................(19,663)(9,814)(9,849)(24,912)(11,097)(13,815)
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
..........(112)(223)111168(256)424
Short-termborrowings
.....................(856)(570)(286)25615241
Long-termborrowings
.....................(25,314)(23,672)(1,642)(18,569)(54,973)36,404
Totalinterestexpense
....................$(59,064)$(59,162)
(a)Interestincomedataareonataxable-equivalentbasis.Theapportionmentofchangesresultingfromthe
combinedeffectofbothvolumeandratewasbasedontheseparatelydeterminedvolumeandratechanges.
Item1A.
RiskFactors.
M&Tanditssubsidiariescouldbeadverselyimpactedbyvariousrisksanduncertaintieswhicharedifficult
topredict.Asafinancialinstitution,theCompanyhassignificantexposuretomarketrisk,including

interest-raterisk,liquidityriskandcreditrisk,amongothers.Adverseexperiencewiththeseorotherrisks

couldhaveamaterialimpactontheCompany™sfinancialconditionandresultsofoperations,aswellason

thevalueoftheCompany™sfinancialinstrumentsingeneral,andM&T™scommonstock,inparticular.
24WeaknessintheeconomyhasadverselyaffectedtheCompanyandmayadverselyaffecttheCompanyinthe
future.Fromlate-2007throughmid-2009,theU.S.economywasinrecession.Althoughtherehasbeengradual
improvementintheU.S.economysincethen,economicgrowthhasbeenunevenandunemploymentlevels

arehigh.Aslowingofimprovementorareturntodeterioratingbusinessandeconomicconditionscould

haveoneormoreofthefollowingadverseeffectsontheCompany™sbusiness:
ŠAdecreaseinthedemandforloansandotherproductsandservicesofferedbytheCompany.
ŠAdecreaseinnetinterestincomederivedfromtheCompany™slendinganddepositgathering

activities.ŠAdecreaseinthevalueoftheCompany™sinvestmentsecurities,loansheldforsaleorotherassets

securedbyresidentialorcommercialrealestate.
ŠOther-than-temporaryimpairmentofinvestmentsecuritiesintheCompany™sinvestmentsecurities

portfolio.ŠAdecreaseinfeesfromtheCompany™sbrokerageandtrustbusinessesassociatedwithdeclinesor

lackofgrowthinstockmarketprices.
ŠPotentialhigherFDICassessmentsduetotheDIFfallingbelowminimumrequiredlevels.
ŠAnimpairmentofcertainintangibleassets,suchasgoodwill.
ŠAnincreaseinthenumberofcustomersandcounterpartieswhobecomedelinquent,filefor

protectionunderbankruptcylawsordefaultontheirloansorotherobligationstotheCompany.An

increaseinthenumberofdelinquencies,bankruptciesordefaultscouldresultinhigherlevelsof

nonperformingassets,netcharge-offs,provisionforcreditlossesandvaluationadjustmentsonloans

heldforsale.
TheCompany™sbusinessandfinancialperformanceisimpactedsignificantlybymarketinterestratesand
movementsinthoserates.Themonetary,taxandotherpoliciesofgovernmentalagencies,includingtheFederal

Reserve,haveasignificantimpactoninterestratesandoverallfinancialmarketperformanceoverwhichM&T

hasnocontrolandwhichM&Tmaynotbeabletoanticipateadequately
.AsaresultofthehighpercentageoftheCompany™sassetsandliabilitiesthatareintheformofinterest-
bearingorinterest-relatedinstruments,changesininterestrates,intheshapeoftheyieldcurveorinspreads

betweendifferentmarketinterestrates,canhaveamaterialeffectontheCompany™sbusinessand

profitabilityandthevalueoftheCompany™sassetsandliabilities.Forexample:
ŠChangesininterestratesorinterestratespreadscanaffectthedifferencebetweentheinterestthatthe

CompanyearnsonassetsandtheinterestthattheCompanypaysonliabilities,whichimpactsthe

Company™soverallnetinterestincomeandprofitability.
ŠSuchchangescanaffecttheabilityofborrowerstomeetobligationsundervariableoradjustablerate

loansandotherdebtinstruments,andcan,inturn,affecttheCompany™slossratesonthoseassets.
ŠSuchchangesmaydecreasethedemandforinterestratebasedproductsandservices,includingloans

anddeposits.
ŠSuchchangescanalsoaffecttheCompany™sabilitytohedgevariousformsofmarketandinterestrate

riskandmaydecreasetheprofitabilityorprotectionorincreasetheriskorcostassociatedwithsuch

hedges.ŠMovementsininterestratesalsoaffectmortgageprepaymentspeedsandcouldresultinthe

impairmentofcapitalizedmortgageservicingassets,reducethevalueofloansheldforsaleand

increasethevolatilityofmortgagebankingrevenues,potentiallyadverselyaffectingtheCompany™s

resultsofoperations.
Themonetary,taxandotherpoliciesofthegovernmentanditsagencies,includingtheFederal
Reserve,haveasignificantimpactoninterestratesandoverallfinancialmarketperformance.These

governmentalpoliciescanthusaffecttheactivitiesandresultsofoperationsofbankingcompaniessuchas

theCompany.AnimportantfunctionoftheFederalReserveistoregulatethenationalsupplyofbankcredit

andcertaininterestrates.TheactionsoftheFederalReserveinfluencetheratesofinterestthattheCompany

chargesonloansandthattheCompanypaysonborrowingsandinterest-bearingdepositsandcanalsoaffect

thevalueoftheCompany™son-balancesheetandoff-balancesheetfinancialinstruments.Also,duetothe

impactonratesforshort-termfunding,theFederalReserve™spoliciesalsoinfluence,toasignificantextent,

theCompany™scostofsuchfunding.Inaddition,theCompanyisroutinelysubjecttoexaminationsfrom
25variousgovernmentaltaxingauthorities.Suchexaminationsmayresultinchallengestothetaxreturn
treatmentappliedbytheCompanytospecifictransactions.Managementbelievesthattheassumptionsand

judgmentusedtorecordtax-relatedassetsorliabilitieshavebeenappropriate.Shouldtaxlawschangeorthe

taxauthoritiesdeterminethatmanagement™sassumptionswereinappropriate,theresultandadjustments

requiredcouldhaveamaterialeffectontheCompany™sresultsofoperations.M&Tcannotpredictthe

natureortimingoffuturechangesinmonetary,taxandotherpoliciesortheeffectthattheymayhaveon

theCompany™sbusinessactivities,financialconditionandresultsofoperations.
TheCompany™sbusinessandperformanceisvulnerabletotheimpactofvolatilityindebtandequitymarkets.
AsmostoftheCompany™sassetsandliabilitiesarefinancialinnature,theCompany™sperformancetendsto
besensitivetotheperformanceofthefinancialmarkets.TurmoilandvolatilityinU.S.andglobalfinancial

marketscanbeamajorcontributoryfactortooverallweakeconomicconditions,leadingtosomeofthe

risksdiscussedherein,includingtheimpairedabilityofborrowersandothercounterpartiestomeet

obligationstotheCompany.Financialmarketvolatilityalsocanhavesomeofthefollowingadverseeffects

ontheCompanyanditsbusiness,includingadverselyaffectingtheCompany™sfinancialconditionand

resultsofoperations:
ŠItcanaffectthevalueorliquidityoftheCompany™son-balancesheetandoff-balancesheetfinancial

instruments.ŠItcanaffectthevalueofcapitalizedservicingassets.
ŠItcanaffectM&T™sabilitytoaccesscapitalmarketstoraisefunds.Inabilitytoaccesscapitalmarkets

ifneeded,atcosteffectiverates,couldadverselyaffecttheCompany™sliquidityandresultsof

operations.ŠItcanaffectthevalueoftheassetsthattheCompanymanagesorotherwiseadministersorservices

forothers.AlthoughtheCompanyisnotdirectlyimpactedbychangesinthevalueofsuchassets,

decreasesinthevalueofthoseassetswouldaffectrelatedfeeincomeandcouldresultindecreased

demandfortheCompany™sservices.
ŠIngeneral,itcanimpactthenature,profitabilityorriskprofileofthefinancialtransactionsinwhich

theCompanyengages.
Volatilityinthemarketsforrealestateandotherassetscommonlysecuringfinancialproductshas
beenandmaycontinuetobeasignificantcontributortooverallvolatilityinfinancialmarkets.
TheCompany™sregionalconcentrationsexposeittoadverseeconomicconditionsinitsprimaryretailbanking
officefootprint.
AlthoughmanyoftheCompany™sbusinessesarenationalinscope,itscorebankingbusinessisconcentrated
withintheCompany™sretailbankingofficenetworkfootprint,locatedprincipallyinNewYork,

Pennsylvania,Maryland,Delaware,Virginia,WestVirginiaandtheDistrictofColumbia.Therefore,the

Companyis,orinthefuturemaybe,particularlyvulnerabletoadversechangesineconomicconditionsin

theNortheastandMid-Atlanticregions.
RisksRelatingtotheRegulatoryEnvironment
TheCompanyissubjecttoextensivegovernmentregulationandsupervisionandthisregulatoryenvironmentis
beingsignificantlyimpactedbythefinancialregulatoryreforminitiativesintheUnitedStates,includingthe

Dodd-FrankActandrelatedregulations.
TheCompanyissubjecttoextensivefederalandstateregulationandsupervision.Bankingregulationsare
primarilyintendedtoprotectdepositors™funds,federaldepositinsurancefundsandthefinancialsystemasa

whole,notsecurityholders.TheseregulationsandsupervisoryguidanceaffecttheCompany™slending

practices,capitalstructure,investmentpractices,dividendpolicyandgrowth,amongotherthings.Failureto

complywithlaws,regulations,policiesorsupervisoryguidancecouldresultincivilorcriminalpenalties,

includingmonetarypenalties,thelossofFDICinsurance,therevocationofabankingcharter,other

sanctionsbyregulatoryagencies,and/orreputationdamage,whichcouldhaveamaterialadverseeffecton

theCompany™sbusiness,financialconditionandresultsofoperations.Inthisregard,government

authorities,includingthebankregulatoryagencies,arepursuingaggressiveenforcementactionswithrespect

tocomplianceandotherlegalmattersinvolvingfinancialactivities,whichheightenstherisksassociatedwith

actualandperceivedcompliancefailures.
26TheUnitedStatesgovernmentandothershaverecentlyundertakenmajorreformsoftheregulatory
oversightstructureofthefinancialservicesindustry.M&Texpectstofaceincreasedregulationofits

industryasaresultofcurrentandpossiblefutureinitiatives.M&Talsoexpectsmoreintensescrutinyinthe

examinationprocessandmoreaggressiveenforcementofregulationsonboththefederalandstatelevels.

CompliancewiththesenewregulationsandsupervisoryinitiativeswilllikelyincreasetheCompany™scosts,

reduceitsrevenueandmaylimititsabilitytopursuecertaindesirablebusinessopportunities.
ManypartsoftheDodd-FrankActarenowineffect,whileothersdependonrulesthathaveyettobe
adoptedorimplemented.Reforms,bothundertheDodd-FrankActandotherwise,willhaveasignificant

effectontheentirefinancialservicesindustry.Althoughitisdifficulttopredictthemagnitudeandextentof

theseeffects,M&Tbelievescompliancewithnewregulationsandotherinitiativeswilllikelynegatively

impactrevenueandincreasethecostofdoingbusiness,bothintermsoftransitionexpensesandonan

ongoingbasis,andmayalsolimitM&T™sabilitytopursuecertaindesirablebusinessopportunities.Anynew

regulatoryrequirementsorchangestoexistingrequirementscouldrequirechangestotheCompany™s

businesses,resultinincreasedcompliancecostsandaffecttheprofitabilityofsuchbusinesses.Additionally,

reformcouldaffectthebehaviorsofthirdpartiesthattheCompanydealswithinthecourseofitsbusiness,

suchasratingagencies,insurancecompaniesandinvestors.Heightenedregulatorypractices,requirements

orexpectationscouldaffecttheCompanyinsubstantialandunpredictableways,and,inturn,couldhavea

materialadverseeffectontheCompany™sbusiness,financialconditionandresultsofoperations.
NewcapitalandliquiditystandardsadoptedbytheU.S.bankingregulatorswillresultinbanksandbank
holdingcompaniesneedingtomaintainmoreandhigherqualitycapitalandgreaterliquiditythanhas

historicallybeenthecase.
Newandevolvingcapitalstandards,bothasaresultoftheDodd-FrankActandimplementationintheU.S.
ofnewcapitalstandardsadoptedbytheBaselCommittee,includingtheso-calledﬁBaselIIIﬂcapitalaccord,

willhaveasignificanteffectonbanksandbankholdingcompanies,includingM&T.BaselIII,when

implementedandfullyphased-in,willrequirebankholdingcompaniesandtheirbanksubsidiariesto

maintainsubstantiallymorecapital,withagreateremphasisoncommonequity.Foradditional

information,seeﬁCapitalRequirementsﬂunderPartI,Item1ﬁBusiness.ﬂ
Theneedtomaintainmoreandhigherqualitycapital,aswellasgreaterliquidity,goingforwardthan
historicallyhasbeenrequired,andgenerallyincreasedregulatoryscrutinywithrespecttocapitallevels,

couldlimittheCompany™sbusinessactivities,includinglending,anditsabilitytoexpand,eitherorganically

orthroughacquisitions.ItcouldalsoresultinM&Tbeingrequiredtotakestepstoincreaseitsregulatory

capitalthatmaybedilutivetoshareholdersorlimititsabilitytopaydividendsorotherwisereturncapitalto

shareholders,orsellorrefrainfromacquiringassets,thecapitalrequirementsforwhicharenotjustifiedby

theassets™underlyingrisks.Inaddition,newliquiditystandardswillrequiretheCompanytoincreaseits

holdingsofunencumberedhighlyliquidinvestments,therebyreducingtheCompany™sabilitytoinvestin

otherlonger-termassetsevenifdeemedmoredesirablefromabalancesheetmanagementperspective.

Moreover,althoughthesenewrequirementsarebeingphasedinovertime,U.S.federalbankingagencies

havebeentakingintoaccountexpectationsregardingtheabilityofbankstomeetthesenewrequirements,

includingunderstressedconditions,inapprovingactionsthatrepresentusesofcapital,suchasdividend

increases,sharerepurchasesandacquisitions.
RisksRelatingtotheCompany™sBusiness
DeterioratingcreditqualitycouldadverselyimpacttheCompany.

Asalender,theCompanyisexposedtotheriskthatcustomerswillbeunabletorepaytheirloansin
accordancewiththetermsoftheagreements,andthatanycollateralsecuringtheloansmaybeinsufficient

toassurefullrepayment.Creditlossesareinherentinthebusinessofmakingloans.
FactorsthatinfluencetheCompany™screditlossexperienceincludeoveralleconomicconditions
affectingbusinessesandconsumers,generally,butalsoresidentialandcommercialrealestatevaluations,in

particular,giventhesizeoftheCompany™srealestateloanportfolios.Factorsthatcaninfluencethe

Company™screditlossexperienceinclude:(i)theimpactofresidentialrealestatevaluesonloansto

residentialrealestatebuildersanddevelopersandotherloanssecuredbyresidentialrealestate;(ii)the

concentrationsofcommercialrealestateloansintheCompany™sloanportfolio;(iii)theamountof

commercialandindustrialloanstobusinessesinareasofNewYorkStateoutsideoftheNewYorkCity
27metropolitanareaandincentralPennsylvaniathathavehistoricallyexperiencedlesseconomicgrowthand
vitalitythanmanyotherregionsofthecountry;(iv)therepaymentperformanceassociatedwithfirstand

secondlienloanssecuredbyresidentialrealestate;and(v)thesizeoftheCompany™sportfolioofloansto

individualconsumers,whichhistoricallyhaveexperiencedhighernetcharge-offsasapercentageofloans

outstandingthanloanstoothertypesofborrowers.
Commercialrealestatevaluationscanbehighlysubjectiveastheyarebaseduponmanyassumptions.
Suchvaluationscanbesignificantlyaffectedoverrelativelyshortperiodsoftimebychangesinbusiness

climate,economicconditions,interestratesand,inmanycases,theresultsofoperationsofbusinessesand

otheroccupantsoftherealproperty.Similarly,residentialrealestatevaluationscanbeimpactedbyhousing

trends,theavailabilityoffinancingatreasonableinterestrates,governmentalpolicyregardinghousingand

housingfinanceandgeneraleconomicconditionsaffectingconsumers.
TheCompanymaintainsanallowanceforcreditlosseswhichrepresents,inmanagement™sjudgment,
theamountoflossesinherentintheloanandleaseportfolio.Theallowanceisdeterminedbymanagement™s

evaluationoftheloanandleaseportfoliobasedonsuchfactorsasthedifferingeconomicrisksassociated

witheachloancategory,thecurrentfinancialconditionofspecificborrowers,theeconomicenvironmentin

whichborrowersoperate,thelevelofdelinquentloans,thevalueofanycollateraland,whereapplicable,the

existenceofanyguaranteesorindemnifications.Theeffectsofprobabledecreasesinexpectedprincipalcash

flowsonacquiredloansarealsoconsideredintheestablishmentoftheallowanceforcreditlosses.
M&Tbelievesthattheallowanceforcreditlossesappropriatelyreflectscreditlossesinherentinthe
loanandleaseportfolio.However,thereisnoassurancethattheallowancewillbesufficienttocoversuch

creditlosses,particularlyifhousingandemploymentconditionsworsenortheeconomyexperiencesa

downturn.Inthosecases,theCompanymayberequiredtoincreasetheallowancethroughanincreasein

theprovisionforcreditlosses,whichwouldreducenetincome.
TheCompanymustmaintainadequatesourcesoffundingandliquidity.
TheCompanymustmaintainadequatefundingsourcesinthenormalcourseofbusinesstosupportits
operationsandfundoutstandingliabilities,aswellasmeetregulatoryexpectations.TheCompanyprimarily

reliesondepositstobealowcostandstablesourceoffundingfortheloansitmakesandtheoperationsof

itsbusiness.Corecustomerdeposits,whichincludenoninterest-bearingdeposits,interest-bearing

transactionaccounts,savingsdepositsandtimedepositsof$250,000orless,havehistoricallyprovidedthe

Companywithasizeablesourceofrelativelystableandlow-costfunds.Inadditiontocustomerdeposits,

sourcesofliquidityincludeborrowingsfromthirdpartybanks,securitiesdealers,variousFederalHome

LoanBanksandtheFederalReserveBankofNewYork.
TheCompany™sliquidityandabilitytofundandrunthebusinesscouldbemateriallyadversely
affectedbyavarietyofconditionsandfactors,includingfinancialandcreditmarketdisruptionsand

volatilityoralackofmarketorcustomerconfidenceinfinancialmarketsingeneral,whichmayresultina

lossofcustomerdepositsoroutflowsofcashorcollateraland/orabilitytoaccesscapitalmarketson

favorableterms.
OtherconditionsandfactorsthatcouldmateriallyadverselyaffecttheCompany™sliquidityand
fundingincludealackofmarketorcustomerconfidencein,ornegativenewsabout,theCompanyorthe

financialservicesindustrygenerallywhichalsomayresultinalossofdepositsand/ornegativelyaffectthe

abilitytoaccessthecapitalmarkets;thelossofcustomerdepositstoalternativeinvestments;inabilitytosell

orsecuritizeloansorotherassets;anddowngradesinoneormoreoftheCompany™screditratings.A

downgradeintheCompany™screditratings,whichcouldresultfromgeneralindustry-wideorregulatory

factorsnotsolelyrelatedtotheCompany,couldadverselyaffecttheCompany™sabilitytoborrowfundsand

raisethecostofborrowingssubstantiallyandcouldcausecreditorsandbusinesscounterpartiestoraise

collateralrequirementsortakeotheractionsthatcouldadverselyaffectM&T™sabilitytoraisecapital.Many

oftheaboveconditionsandfactorsmaybecausedbyeventsoverwhichM&Thaslittleornocontrol.There

canbenoassurancethatsignificantdisruptionandvolatilityinthefinancialmarketswillnotoccurinthe

future.IftheCompanyisunabletocontinuetofundassetsthroughcustomerbankdepositsoraccess
fundingsourcesonfavorabletermsoriftheCompanysuffersanincreaseinborrowingcostsorotherwise

failstomanageliquidityeffectively,theCompany™sliquidity,operatingmargins,financialconditionand

resultsofoperationsmaybemateriallyadverselyaffected.
28Thefinancialservicesindustryishighlycompetitiveandcreatescompetitivepressuresthatcouldadverselyaffect
theCompany™srevenueandprofitability.
ThefinancialservicesindustryinwhichtheCompanyoperatesishighlycompetitive.TheCompany
competesnotonlywithcommercialandotherbanksandthrifts,butalsowithinsurancecompanies,mutual

funds,hedgefunds,securitiesbrokeragefirmsandothercompaniesofferingfinancialservicesintheU.S.,

globallyandovertheInternet.TheCompanycompetesonthebasisofseveralfactors,includingcapital,

accesstocapital,revenuegeneration,products,services,transactionexecution,innovation,reputationand

price.Overtime,certainsectorsofthefinancialservicesindustryhavebecomemoreconcentrated,as

institutionsinvolvedinabroadrangeoffinancialserviceshavebeenacquiredbyormergedintootherfirms.

ThesedevelopmentscouldresultintheCompany™scompetitorsgaininggreatercapitalandotherresources,

suchasabroaderrangeofproductsandservicesandgeographicdiversity.TheCompanymayexperience

pricingpressuresasaresultofthesefactorsandassomeofitscompetitorsseektoincreasemarketshareby

reducingpricesorpayinghigherratesofinterestondeposits.Finally,technologicalchangeisinfluencing

howindividualsandfirmsconducttheirfinancialaffairsandchangingthedeliverychannelsforfinancial

services,withtheresultthattheCompanymayhavetocontendwithabroaderrangeofcompetitors

includingmanythatarenotlocatedwithinthegeographicfootprintofitsbankingofficenetwork.
M&Tmaybeadverselyaffectedbythesoundnessofotherfinancialinstitutions.
Financialservicesinstitutionsareinterrelatedasaresultoftrading,clearing,counterparty,orother
relationships.TheCompanyhasexposuretomanydifferentindustriesandcounterparties,androutinely

executestransactionswithcounterpartiesinthefinancialservicesindustry,includingcommercialbanks,

brokersanddealers,investmentbanks,andotherinstitutionalclients.Manyofthesetransactionsexposethe

Companytocreditriskintheeventofadefaultbyacounterpartyorclient.Inaddition,theCompany™s

creditriskmaybeexacerbatedwhenthecollateralheldbytheCompanycannotberealizedorisliquidated

atpricesnotsufficienttorecoverthefullamountofthecreditorderivativeexposureduetotheCompany.

AnysuchlossescouldhaveamaterialadverseeffectontheCompany™sfinancialconditionandresultsof

operations.M&Treliesondividendsfromitssubsidiariesforitsliquidity.
M&Tisaseparateanddistinctlegalentityfromitssubsi
diaries.M&Ttypicallyreceivessubstantiallyallofits
revenuefromsubsidiarydividends.Thesedividendsaretheprincipalsourceoffundstopaydividendson

M&Tstockandinterestandprincipalonitsdebt.Variousfederaland/orstatelawsandregulations,aswellas

regulatoryexpectations,limittheamountofdividends
thatM&T™sbankingsubsidiariesandcertainnonbank
subsidiariesmaypay.Regulatoryscrutinyofcapitallevelsatbankholdingcompaniesandinsureddepository

institutionsubsidiarieshasincreasedinrecentyea
rsandhasresultedinincreasedregulatoryfocusonall
aspectsofcapitalplanning,includingdividendsandot
herdistributionstoshareholdersofbanks,suchas
parentbankholdingcompanies.SeeﬁItem1.BusinessŠDividendsﬂforadiscussionofregulatoryandother

restrictionsondividenddeclarations.Also,M&T™srighttoparticipateinadistributionofassetsupona

subsidiary™sliquidationorreorganizationissubjecttothepriorclaimsofthatsubsidiary™screditors.

LimitationsonM&T™sabilitytoreceivedividendsfromitssubsidiariescouldhaveamaterialadverseeffecton

itsliquidityandabilitytopaydividendsonitsstockorinterestandprincipalonitsdebt.
TheCompanyissubjecttooperationalrisk.
Likeallbusinesses,theCompanyissubjecttooperationalrisk,whichrepresentstheriskoflossresulting
fromhumanerror,inadequateorfailedinternalprocessesandsystems,andexternalevents.Operationalrisk

alsoencompassesreputationalriskandcomplianceandlegalrisk,whichistheriskoflossfromviolationsof,

ornoncompliancewith,laws,rules,regulations,prescribedpracticesorethicalstandards,aswellastherisk

ofnoncompliancewithcontractualandotherobligations.TheCompanyisalsoexposedtooperationalrisk

throughoutsourcingarrangements,andtheeffectthatchangesincircumstancesorcapabilitiesofits

outsourcingvendorscanhaveontheCompany™sabilitytocontinuetoperformoperationalfunctions

necessarytoitsbusiness.Inaddition,alongwithotherparticipantsinthefinancialservicesindustry,the

Companycontinuallyandfrequentlyattemptstointroducenewtechnology-drivenproductsandservices

thatareaimedatallowingtheCompanytobetterservecustomersandtoreducecosts.TheCompanymay

notbeabletoeffectivelyimplementnewtechnology-drivenproductsandservicesthatallowsittoremain
29competitiveorbesuccessfulinmarketingtheseproductsandservicestoitscustomers.Althoughthe
Companyseekstomitigateoperationalriskthroughasystemofinternalcontrolswhicharereviewedand

updated,nosystemofcontrols,howeverwelldesignedandmaintained,isinfallible.Controlweaknessesor

failuresorotheroperationalriskscouldresultincharges,increasedoperationalcosts,harmtothe

Company™sreputationorforegonebusinessopportunities.
ChangesinaccountingstandardscouldimpacttheCompany™sfinancialconditionandresultsofoperations.
Theaccountingstandardsetters,includingtheFinancialAccountingStandardsBoard(ﬁFASBﬂ),theSEC
andotherregulatorybodies,periodicallychangethefinancialaccountingandreportingstandardsthat

governthepreparationoftheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialstatements.Thesechangescanbehardto

predictandcanmateriallyimpacthowtheCompanyrecordsandreportsitsfinancialconditionandresults

ofoperations.Insomecases,theCompanycouldberequiredtoapplyaneworrevisedstandard

retroactively,whichwouldresultintherestatingoftheCompany™spriorperiodfinancialstatements.
M&T™saccountingpoliciesandprocessesarecriticaltothereportingoftheCompany™sfinancialconditionand
resultsofoperations.Theyrequiremanagementtomakeestimatesaboutmattersthatareuncertain.
AccountingpoliciesandprocessesarefundamentaltotheCompany™sreportedfinancialconditionand
resultsofoperations.Someofthesepoliciesrequireuseofestimatesandassumptionsthatmayaffectthe

reportedamountsofassetsorliabilitiesandfinancialresults.SeveralofM&T™saccountingpoliciesare

criticalbecausetheyrequiremanagementtomakedifficult,subjectiveandcomplexjudgmentsabout

mattersthatareinherentlyuncertainandbecauseitislikelythatmateriallydifferentamountswouldbe

reportedunderdifferentconditionsorusingdifferentassumptions.Pursuanttogenerallyaccepted

accountingprinciples(ﬁGAAPﬂ),managementisrequiredtomakecertainassumptionsandestimatesin

preparingtheCompany™sfinancialstatements.IfassumptionsorestimatesunderlyingtheCompany™s

financialstatementsareincorrect,theCompanymayexperiencemateriallosses.
Managementhasidentifiedcertainaccountingpoliciesasbeingcriticalbecausetheyrequire
management™sjudgmenttoascertainthevaluationsofassets,liabilities,commitmentsandcontingencies.A

varietyoffactorscouldaffecttheultimatevaluethatisobtainedeitherwhenearningincome,recognizingan

expense,recoveringanasset,valuinganassetorliability,orrecognizingorreducingaliability.M&Thas

establisheddetailedpoliciesandcontrolproceduresthatareintendedtoensurethesecriticalaccounting

estimatesandjudgmentsarewellcontrolledandappliedconsistently.Inaddition,thepoliciesand

proceduresareintendedtoensurethattheprocessforchangingmethodologiesoccursinanappropriate

manner.Becauseoftheuncertaintysurroundingjudgmentsandtheestimatespertainingtothesematters,

M&Tcouldberequiredtoadjustaccountingpoliciesorrestatepriorperiodfinancialstatementsifthose

judgmentsandestimatesprovetobeincorrect.Foradditionalinformation,seePartII,Item7,

Management™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations,ﬁCritical

AccountingEstimatesﬂandNote1,ﬁSignificantAccountingPolicies,ﬂtotheConsolidatedFinancial

StatementsinPartII,Item8.
DifficultiesincombiningtheoperationsofacquiredentitieswiththeCompany™sownoperationsmayprevent
M&Tfromachievingtheexpectedbenefitsfromitsacquisitions.
M&Thasregularlyconsideredopportunitiestoexpandandimproveitsbusinessthroughacquisitionof
otherfinancialinstitutions.Inherentuncertaintiesexistwhenintegratingtheoperationsofanacquired

entity.M&Tmaynotbeabletofullyachieveitsstrategicobjectivesandplannedoperatingefficienciesinan

acquisition.Inaddition,themarketsandindustriesinwhichtheCompanyanditspotentialacquisition

targetsoperatearehighlycompetitive.TheCompanymaylosecustomersorfailtoretainthecustomersof

acquiredentitiesasaresultofanacquisition.FutureacquisitionandintegrationactivitiesmayrequireM&T

todevotesubstantialtimeandresources,andasaresultM&Tmaynotbeabletopursueotherbusiness

opportunities.Aftercompletinganacquisition,theCompanymaynotrealizetheexpectedbenefitsofthe
acquisitionduetolowerfinancialresultspertainingtotheacquiredentity.Forexample,theCompanycould

experiencehighercreditlossesthanoriginallyanticipatedrelatedtoanacquiredloanportfolio.
30M&Tcouldsufferifitfailstoattractandretainskilledpersonnel.
M&T™ssuccessdepends,inlargepart,onitsabilitytoattractandretainkeyindividuals.Competitionfor
qualifiedcandidatesintheactivitiesandmarketsthattheCompanyservesissignificantandtheCompany

maynotbeabletohirethesecandidatesandretainthem.GrowthintheCompany™sbusiness,including

throughacquisitions,mayincreaseitsneedforadditionalqualifiedpersonnel.IftheCompanyisnotableto

hireorretainthesekeyindividuals,itmaybeunabletoexecuteitsbusinessstrategiesandmaysufferadverse

consequencestoitsbusiness,financialconditionandresultsofoperations.
Thefederalbankingagencieshaveissuedjointguidanceonexecutivecompensationdesignedtohelp
ensurethatabankingorganization™sincentivecompensationpoliciesdonotencourageimprudentrisk

takingandareconsistentwiththesafetyandsoundnessoftheorganization.Inaddition,theDodd-Frank

Actrequiredthoseagencies,alongwiththeSEC,toadoptrulestorequirereportingofincentive

compensationandtoprohibitcertaincompensationarrangements.Ifasaresultofcomplyingwithsuch

rulesM&Tisunabletoattractandretainqualifiedemployees,ordosoatratesnecessarytomaintainits

competitiveposition,orifthecompensationcostsrequiredtoattractandretainemployeesbecomemore

significant,theCompany™sperformance,includingitscompetitiveposition,couldbemateriallyadversely

affected.Severeweather,naturaldisasters,actsofwarorterrorismandotherexternaleventscouldsignificantlyimpactthe
Company™sbusiness.
Severeweather,naturaldisasters,actsofwarorterrorismandotheradverseexternaleventscouldhavea
significantimpactontheCompany™sabilitytoconductbusiness.Sucheventscouldaffectthestabilityofthe

Company™sdepositbase,impairtheabilityofborrowerstorepayoutstandingloans,impairthevalueof

collateralsecuringloans,causesignificantpropertydamage,resultinlossofrevenueand/orcausethe

Companytoincuradditionalexpenses.AlthoughtheCompanyhasestablisheddisasterrecoveryplansand

procedures,andmonitorsforsignificantenvironmentaleffectsonitspropertiesoritsinvestments,the

occurrenceofanysucheventcouldhaveamaterialadverseeffectontheCompany.
TheCompany™sinformationsystemsmayexperienceinterruptionsorbreachesinsecurity.
TheCompanyreliesheavilyoncommunicationsandinformationsystemstoconductitsbusiness.Any
failure,interruptionorbreachinsecurityofthesesystemscouldresultindisruptionstoitsaccounting,

deposit,loanandothersystems,andadverselyaffecttheCompany™scustomerrelationships.Whilethe

Companyhaspoliciesandproceduresdesignedtopreventorlimittheeffectofthesepossibleevents,there

canbenoassurancethatanysuchfailure,interruptionorsecuritybreachwillnotoccuror,ifanydoes

occur,thatitcanbesufficientlyremediated.
Therehavebeenincreasingeffortsonthepartofthirdpartiestobreachdatasecurityatfinancial
institutionsorwithrespecttofinancialtransactions.Inaddition,becausethetechniquesusedtocausesuch

securitybreacheschangefrequently,oftenarenotrecognizeduntillaunchedagainstatargetandmay

originatefromlessregulatedandremoteareasaroundtheworld,theCompanymaybeunabletoproactively

addressthesetechniquesortoimplementadequatepreventativemeasures.TheabilityoftheCompany™s

customerstobankremotely,includingonlineandthroughmobiledevices,requiressecuretransmissionof

confidentialinformationandincreasestheriskofdatasecuritybreaches.
Theoccurrenceofanyfailure,interruptionorsecuritybreachoftheCompany™ssystems,particularly
ifwidespreadorresultinginfinanciallossestocustomers,coulddamagetheCompany™sreputation,resultin

alossofcustomerbusiness,subjectittoadditionalregulatoryscrutiny,orexposeittocivillitigationand

financialliability.
TheCompanyisormaybecomeinvolvedfromtimetotimeinsuits,legalproceedings,information-gathering
requests,investigationsandproceedingsbygovernmentalandself-regulatoryagenciesthatmayleadtoadverse

consequences.ManyaspectsoftheCompany™sbusinessinvolvesubstantialriskoflegalliability.M&Tand/orits
subsidiarieshavebeennamedorthreatenedtobenamedasdefendantsinvariouslawsuitsarisingfromitsor

itssubsidiaries™businessactivities(andinsomecasesfromtheactivitiesofcompaniesM&Thasacquired).

Inaddition,fromtimetotime,M&Tis,ormaybecome,thesubjectofgovernmentalandself-regulatory

agencyinformation-gatheringrequests,reviews,investigationsandproceedingsandotherformsof
31regulatoryinquiry,includingbybankregulatoryagencies,theSECandlawenforcementauthorities.M&Tis
alsoatriskwhenithasagreedtoindemnifyothersforlossesrelatedtolegalproceedings,includinglitigation

andgovernmentalinvestigationsandinquiries,theyface,suchasinconnectionwiththepurchaseorsaleof

abusinessorassets.Theresultsofsuchproceedingscouldleadtosignificantcivilorcriminalpenalties,

includingmonetarypenalties,damages,adversejudgments,settlements,fines,injunctions,restrictionson

thewayinwhichtheCompanyconductsitsbusiness,orreputationalharm.
AlthoughtheCompanyestablishesaccrualsforlegalproceedingswheninformationrelatedtothe
losscontingenciesrepresentedbythosemattersindicatesboththatalossisprobableandthattheamountof

losscanbereasonablyestimated,theCompanydoesnothaveaccrualsforalllegalproceedingswhereitfaces

ariskofloss.Inaddition,duetotheinherentsubjectivityoftheassessmentsandunpredictabilityofthe

outcomeoflegalproceedings,amountsaccruedmaynotrepresenttheultimatelosstotheCompanyfrom

thelegalproceedingsinquestion.Thus,theCompany™sultimatelossesmaybehigher,andpossibly

significantlyso,thantheamountsaccruedforlegallosscontingencies,whichcouldadverselyaffectthe

Company™sfinancialconditionandresultsofoperations.
M&TreliesonothercompaniestoprovidekeycomponentsoftheCompany™sbusinessinfrastructure.
ThirdpartiesprovidekeycomponentsoftheCompany™sbusinessinfrastructuresuchasbankingservices,
processing,andInternetconnectionsandnetworkaccess.Anydisruptioninsuchservicesprovidedbythese

thirdpartiesoranyfailureofthesethirdpartiestohandlecurrentorhighervolumesofusecouldadversely

affecttheCompany™sabilitytodeliverproductsandservicestoclientsandotherwisetoconductbusiness.

TechnologicalorfinancialdifficultiesofathirdpartyserviceprovidercouldadverselyaffecttheCompany™s

businesstotheextentthosedifficultiesresultintheinterruptionordiscontinuationofservicesprovidedby

thatparty.TheCompanymaynotbeinsuredagainstalltypesoflossesasaresultofthirdpartyfailuresand

insurancecoveragemaybeinadequatetocoveralllossesresultingfromsystemfailuresorotherdisruptions.

FailuresintheCompany™sbusinessinfrastructurecouldinterrupttheoperationsorincreasethecostsof

doingbusiness.
DetaileddiscussionsofthespecificrisksoutlinedaboveandotherrisksfacingtheCompanyare
includedwithinthisAnnualReportonForm10-KinPartI,Item1ﬁBusiness,ﬂandPartII,Item7

ﬁManagement™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations.ﬂFurthermore,

inPartII,Item7undertheheadingﬁForward-LookingStatementsﬂisincludedadescriptionofcertainrisks,

uncertaintiesandassumptionsidentifiedbymanagementthataredifficulttopredictandthatcould

materiallyaffecttheCompany™sfinancialconditionandresultsofoperations,aswellasthevalueofthe

Company™sfinancialinstrumentsingeneral,andM&Tcommonstock,inparticular.
Inaddition,themarketpriceofM&Tcommonstockmayfluctuatesignificantlyinresponsetoa
numberofotherfactors,includingchangesinsecuritiesanalysts™estimatesoffinancialperformance,

volatilityofstockmarketpricesandvolumes,rumorsorerroneousinformation,changesinmarket

valuationsofsimilarcompaniesandchangesinaccountingpoliciesorproceduresasmayberequiredbythe

FASBorotherregulatoryagencies.
Item1B.
UnresolvedStaffComments.
None.Item2.
Properties.BothM&TandM&TBankmaintaintheirexecutiveofficesatOneM&TPlazainBuffalo,NewYork.This
twenty-onestoryheadquartersbuilding,containingapproximately300,000rentablesquarefeetofspace,is

ownedinfeebyM&TBankandwascompletedin1967.M&T,M&TBankandtheirsubsidiariesoccupy

approximately98%ofthebuildingandtheremainderisleasedtonon-affiliatedtenants.AtDecember31,

2013,thecostofthisproperty(includingimprovementssubsequenttotheinitialconstruction),netof

accumulateddepreciation,was$10.5million.
M&TBankownsanadditionalfacilityinBuffalo,NewYorkwithapproximately395,000rentable
squarefeetofspace.Approximately89%ofthisfacility,knownasM&TCenter,isoccupiedbyM&TBank

anditssubsidiaries,withtheremainderleasedtonon-affiliatedtenants.AtDecember31,2013,thecostof

thisbuilding(includingimprovementssubsequenttoacquisition),netofaccumulateddepreciation,was

$8.2million.
32M&TBankalsoownsandoccupiestwoseparatefacilitiesintheBuffaloareawhichsupportcertain
back-officeandoperationsfunctionsoftheCompany.Thetotalsquarefootageofthesefacilities

approximates225,000squarefeetandtheircombinedcost(includingimprovementssubsequentto

acquisition),netofaccumulateddepreciation,was$18.6millionatDecember31,2013.
M&TBankalsoownsafacilityinSyracuse,NewYorkwithapproximately160,000rentablesquare
feetofspace.Approximately48%ofthisfacilityisoccupiedbyM&TBank.AtDecember31,2013,thecost

ofthisbuilding(includingimprovementssubsequenttoacquisition),netofaccumulateddepreciation,was

$3.6million.
M&TBankalsoownsfacilitiesinHarrisburg,PennsylvaniaandMillsboro,Delawarewith
approximately225,000and325,000rentablesquarefeetofspace,respectively.M&TBankoccupies

approximately29%and87%oftheserespectivefacilities.AtDecember31,2013,thecostofthesebuildings

(includingimprovementssubsequenttoacquisition),netofaccumulateddepreciation,was$11.1million

and$7.1million,respectively.
M&TBankobtainedfacilitiesinconnectionwiththeWilmingtonTrustacquisitioninWilmington,
Delaware,withapproximately340,000(knownasWilmingtonCenter)and295,000(knownasWilmington

Plaza)rentablesquarefeetofspace,respectively.M&TBankoccupiesapproximately92%ofWilmington

Center.WilmingtonPlazais100%occupiedbyatenant.AtDecember31,2013,thecostofthesebuildings,

netofaccumulateddepreciation,was$44.1millionand$13.6million,respectively.
NootherpropertiesownedbyM&TBankhavemorethan100,000squarefeetofspace.Thecost,net
ofaccumulateddepreciationandamortization,oftheCompany™spremisesandequipmentisdetailedin

note6ofNotestoFinancialStatementsfiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancialStatementsand

SupplementaryData.ﬂOfthe722domesticbankingofficesoftheRegistrant™ssubsidiarybanksat

December31,2013,299areownedinfeeand423areleased.
Item3.
LegalProceedings.
M&Tanditssubsidiariesaresubjectinthenormalcourseofbusinesstovariouspendingandthreatened
legalproceedingsinwhichclaimsformonetarydamagesareasserted.Onanon-goingbasismanagement,

afterconsultationwithlegalcounsel,assessestheCompany™sliabilitiesandcontingenciesinconnectionwith

suchlegalproceedings.ForthosematterswhereitisprobablethattheCompanywillincurlossesandthe

amountsofthelossescanbereasonablyestimated,theCompanyrecordsanexpenseandcorresponding

liabilityinitsconsolidatedfinancialstatements.Totheextentthependingorthreatenedlitigationcould

resultinexposureinexcessofthatliability,theamountofsuchexcessisnotcurrentlyestimable.Although

notconsideredprobable,therangeofreasonablypossiblelossesforsuchmattersintheaggregate,beyond

theexistingrecordedliability,wasbetween$0and$50million.AlthoughtheCompanydoesnotbelievethat

theoutcomeofpendinglitigationswillbematerialtotheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialposition,it

cannotruleoutthepossibilitythatsuchoutcomeswillbematerialtotheconsolidatedresultsofoperations

foraparticularreportingperiodinthefuture.
WilmingtonTrustCorporationInvestigativeandLitigationMatters
M&T™sWilmingtonTrustCorporation(ﬁWilmingtonTrustﬂ)subsidiaryisthesubjectofcertain
governmentalinvestigationsarisingfromactionsundertakenbyWilmingtonTrustpriortoM&T™s

acquisitionofWilmingtonTrustanditssubsidiaries,assetforthbelow.
SECInvestigation:
PriortoM&T™sacquisitionofWilmingtonTrust,theSecuritiesandExchange
Commission(ﬁSECﬂ)commencedaninvestigationofWilmingtonTrust,relatingtothefinancialreporting

andsecuritiesfilingsofWilmingtonTrustpriortoitsacquisitionbyM&T.CounselforWilmingtonTrust

hasmetwiththeSECtodiscusstheinvestigationanditspossibleresolution.OnAugust5,2013,theSEC

issuedaWellsNoticetoWilmingtonTrust.OnSeptember20,2013,WilmingtonTrustfiledaWells

submission.TheSECinvestigationisongoing.
DOJInvestigation:
PriortoM&T™sacquisitionofWilmingtonTrust,theDepartmentofJustice
(ﬁDOJﬂ)alsocommencedaninvestigationofWilmingtonTrust,relatingtoWilmingtonTrust™sfinancial

reportingandsecuritiesfilings,aswellascertaincommercialrealestatelendingrelationshipsinvolvingits

subsidiarybank,WilmingtonTrustCompany,allofwhichrelatetofilingsandactivitiesoccurringpriorto

theacquisitionofWilmingtonTrustbyM&T.CounselforWilmingtonTrusthasmetwiththeDOJto

discusstheDOJinvestigation.TheDOJinvestigationisongoing.
33Eitheroftheseinvestigationscouldleadtoadministrativeorlegalproceedingsresultinginpotential
civiland/orcriminalremedies,orsettlements,including,amongotherthings,enforcementactions,fines,

penalties,restitutionoradditionalcostsandexpenses.
InReWilmingtonTrustSecuritiesLitigation(U.S.DistrictCourt,DistrictofDelaware,
CaseNo.10-CV-0990-SLR):
BeginningonNovember18,2010,aseriesofparties,purportingtobeclass
representatives,commencedaputativeclassactionlawsuitagainstWilmingtonTrust,allegingthat

WilmingtonTrust™sfinancialreportingandsecuritiesfilingswereinviolationofsecuritieslaws.Thecases

wereconsolidatedandWilmingtonTrustmovedtodismiss.OnMarch29,2012,theCourtgranted

WilmingtonTrust™smotiontodismissinitsentirety,butallowedplaintiffstore-filetheirComplaint.

PlaintiffssubsequentlyfiledaSecondAmendedComplaintandaThirdAmendedComplaint.OnJune11,

2013,plaintiffsfiledamotiontoserveaFourthAmendedComplaint,whichwasgranted,andtheFourth

AmendedComplaintwasfiled.OnJuly17,2013,WilmingtonTrustfiledamotiontodismisstheFourth

AmendedComplaint.
Duetotheircomplexnature,itisdifficulttoestimatewhenlitigationandinvestigatorymatterssuch
asthesemayberesolved.AssetforthintheintroductoryparagraphtothisItem3ŠLegalProceedings,

currentlitigationandregulatorymatterswhichthecompanyissubjectto,includingthoseinvolving

WilmingtonTrust-relatedentities,althoughnotcurrentlyconsideredprobable,arewithinarangeof

reasonablypossiblelossesforsuchmattersintheaggregate,beyondtheexistingrecordedliability,andare

includedintherangeofreasonablypossiblelossessetforthabove.
Item4.
MineSafetyDisclosures.
Notapplicable.
ExecutiveOfficersoftheRegistrant
InformationconcerningtheRegistrant™sexecutiveofficersispresentedbelowasofFebruary21,2014.The

yeartheofficerwasfirstappointedtotheindicatedpositionwiththeRegistrantoritssubsidiariesisshown

parenthetically.Inthecaseofeachentitynotedbelow,officers™termsrununtilthefirstmeetingoftheboard

ofdirectorsaftersuchentity™sannualmeeting,whichinthecaseoftheRegistranttakesplaceimmediately

followingtheAnnualMeetingofShareholders,anduntiltheirsuccessorsareelectedandqualified.
RobertG.Wilmers,age79,ischiefexecutiveofficer(2007),chairmanoftheboard(2000)anda
director(1982)oftheRegistrant.FromApril1998untilJuly2000,heservedaspresidentandchiefexecutive

officeroftheRegistrantandfromJuly2000untilJune2005heservedaschairman,president(1988)and

chiefexecutiveofficer(1983)oftheRegistrant.Heischiefexecutiveofficer(2007),chairmanoftheboard

(2005)andadirector(1982)ofM&TBank,andpreviouslyservedaschairmanoftheboardofM&TBank

fromMarch1983untilJuly2003andaspresidentofM&TBankfromMarch1984untilJune1996.
MarkJ.Czarnecki,age58,ispresident(2007),chiefoperatingofficer(2014)andadirector(2007)of
theRegistrantandofM&TBank.Previously,hewasanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(1999)and

M&TBank(1997)andwasresponsiblefortheM&TInvestmentGroupandtheCompany™sRetailBanking

network.Mr.Czarneckiisadirector(1999)ofM&TSecurities,chairmanoftheboard,presidentandchief

executiveofficer(2007)andadirector(2005)ofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.,andchairmanoftheboardanda

director(2011)ofWilmingtonTrustCompany.
RobertJ.Bojdak,age58,isanexecutivevicepresidentandchiefcreditofficer(2004)oftheRegistrant
andM&TBank.InadditiontomanagingtheCompany™screditrisk,Mr.Bojdakwasalsoresponsiblefor

managingtheCompany™senterprise-widerisk,includingoperational,complianceandinvestmentrisk,until

February2013.FromApril2002toApril2004,Mr.Bojdakservedasseniorvicepresidentandcreditdeputyfor

M&TBank.HeisanexecutivevicepresidentandadirectorofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.(2004).
StephenJ.Braunscheidel,age57,isanexecutivevicepresident(2004)oftheRegistrantandM&TBank,
andisinchargeoftheCompany™sHumanResourcesDivision.Previously,hewasaseniorvicepresidentinthe

M&TInvestmentGroup,wherehemanagedthePrivateClientServicesandEmployeeBenefitsdepartments.

Mr.BraunscheidelhasheldanumberofmanagementpositionswithM&TBanksince1978.
WilliamJ.FarrellII,age56,isanexecutivevicepresident(2011)oftheRegistrantandM&TBank,
andisresponsibleforM&T™sWealthandInstitutionalServicesDivision,whichincludesWealthAdvisory

Services,InstitutionalClientServices,AssetManagement,M&TSecuritiesandM&TInsuranceAgency.

Mr.FarrelljoinedM&TthroughtheWilmingtonTrustacquisition.HejoinedWilmingtonTrustin1976

andheldanumberofseniormanagementpositions,mostrecentlyasexecutivevicepresidentandheadof

theCorporateClientServicesbusiness.Mr.Farrellispresident,chiefexecutiveofficerandadirector
34(2012)ofWilmingtonTrustCompany,anexecutivevicepresidentandadirector(2011)ofWilmington
Trust,N.A.andadirector(2013)ofM&TSecurities.
RichardS.Gold,age53,isanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(2007)andM&TBank
(2006)andisresponsibleformanagingtheCompany™sResidentialMortgageandBusinessBanking

Divisions.HeisalsoresponsiblefortheOfficeofRegulatoryProjects.Mr.Goldservedasseniorvice

presidentofM&TBankfrom2000to2006,mostrecentlyresponsiblefortheRetailBankingDivision,

includingM&TSecurities.Mr.GoldisanexecutivevicepresidentofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.(2006).
BrianE.Hickey,age61,isanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(1997)andM&TBank
(1996).HeisamemberoftheDirectorsAdvisoryCouncil(1994)oftheRochesterDivisionofM&TBank.

Mr.Hickeyisresponsibleformanagingallofthenon-retailsegmentsinUpstateNewYorkandinthe

NorthernandCentral/WesternPennsylvaniaregions.Mr.HickeyisalsoresponsiblefortheAutoFloorPlan

lendingbusiness.
RenéF.Jones,age49,isanexecutivevicepresident(2006)andchieffinancialofficer(2005)ofthe
Registrant.Heisavicechairman(2014)andchieffinancialofficer(2005)ofM&TBank.Mr.Jonesisalso

responsibleforWilmingtonTrust™swealthandinstitutionalservicesbusinessesandforM&T™sTreasury

Division.Previously,Mr.JoneswasaseniorvicepresidentinchargeoftheFinancialPerformance

MeasurementdepartmentwithinM&TBank™sFinanceDivision.Mr.Joneshasheldanumberof

managementpositionswithinM&TBank™sFinanceDivisionsince1992.Mr.Jonesisanexecutivevice

presidentandchieffinancialofficer(2005)andadirector(2007)ofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.,andheis

chairmanoftheboard,president(2009)andatrustee(2005)ofM&TRealEstate.Heischairmanofthe

boardandadirector(2014)ofWilmingtonTrustInvestmentAdvisors,andisadirectorofM&TInsurance

Agency(2007)andM&TSecurities(2005).Mr.Jonesischieffinancialofficer(2012)andadirector

(2014)ofWilmingtonTrustCompany.
DarrenJ.King,age44,isanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(2010)andM&TBank(2009),
andisinchargeoftheRetailBankingDivision,theConsumerLendingDivisionandtheMarketingand

CommunicationsDivision.Mr.KingpreviouslyservedasseniorvicepresidentofM&TBank,mostrecently

responsiblefortheBusinessBankingDivision,andhasheldanumberofmanagementpositionswithin

M&TBanksince2000.Mr.KingisanexecutivevicepresidentofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.(2009).
GinoA.Martocci,age48,isanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrantandM&TBank(2014),and
isresponsibleforM&T™sNewYorkCity,BaltimoreandWashington,D.C.metropolitanmarkets.Healsois

responsibleforM&T™sspecialtybusinesses,commercialplanningandanalysis,commercialpayment

systems,andM&TRealtyCapital.Mr.MartocciservedasseniorvicepresidentofM&TBankfrom2002to

2013,servinginanumberofmanagementpositions.Heisadirector(2009)ofM&TRealtyCapital.

Mr.MartocciisalsothechairmanoftheDirectorsAdvisoryCouncil(2013)oftheNewYorkCity/Long

IslandDivisionofM&TBank.
KevinJ.Pearson,age52,isanexecutivevicepresident(2002)oftheRegistrantandisavicechairman
(2014)ofM&TBank.HeisamemberoftheDirectorsAdvisoryCouncil(2006)oftheNewYorkCity/Long

IslandDivisionofM&TBank.Mr.PearsonisresponsibleformanagingallofM&TBank™scommercial

bankinglinesofbusiness.Previously,hewasresponsibleforallofthenon-retailsegmentsintheNewYork

City,Philadelphia,Connecticut,NewJersey,Tarrytown,GreaterWashingtonD.C.andNorthernVirginia,

SouthernPennsylvaniaandDelawaremarketsofM&TBank,aswellastheCompany™scommercialreal

estatebusiness,CommercialMarketingandTreasuryManagement.Heisanexecutivevicepresidentof

M&TRealEstate(2003),andchairmanoftheboard(2009)andadirector(2003)ofM&TRealtyCapital.

Mr.PearsonservedasseniorvicepresidentofM&TBankfrom2000to2002.
MicheleD.Trolli,age52,isanexecutivevicepresidentandchiefinformationofficeroftheRegistrant
andM&TBank(2005).SheisinchargeoftheCompany™sBankingServices,Technology,Alternative

BankingandGlobalSourcinggroups.Previously,Ms.TrolliwasinchargeoftheTechnologyandBanking

OperationsDivision,theRetailBankingDivisionandtheCorporateServicesGroupofM&TBank.
DonaldK.Truslow,age55,isanexecutivevicepresidentandchiefriskofficer(2013)ofthe
RegistrantandM&TBank.HeisresponsibleformanagingtheCompany™senterprise-widerisk,including

operational,complianceandinvestmentrisk.PrevioustojoiningM&T,Mr.TruslowservedasPresident,

FinancialStabilityIndustryCouncilofTheFinancialServicesRoundtable,fortwoyears.Priortothat,

Mr.TruslowservedinseveralseniormanagementpositionsatWachoviaCorporation,includingeightyears

asseniorexecutivevicepresidentandchiefriskofficer.
D.ScottN.Warman,age48,isanexecutivevicepresident(2009)andtreasurer(2008)ofthe
RegistrantandM&TBank.HeisresponsibleformanagingtheCompany™sTreasuryDivision.Mr.Warman
35previouslyservedasseniorvicepresidentofM&TBankandhasheldanumberofmanagementpositions
withinM&TBanksince1995.HeisanexecutivevicepresidentandtreasurerofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.

(2008),atrusteeofM&TRealEstate(2009),adirectorofM&TSecurities(2008)andistreasurerof

WilmingtonTrustCompany(2012).
PARTII
Item5.
MarketforRegistrant™sCommonEquity,RelatedStockholderMattersandIssuerPurchasesof
EquitySecurities.
M&T™scommonstockistradedunderthesymbolMTBontheNewYorkStockExchange.Seecross-
referencesheetfordisclosuresincorporatedelsewhereinthisAnnualReportonForm10-Kformarket

pricesofM&T™scommonstock,approximatenumberofcommonshareholdersatyear-end,frequencyand

amountsofdividendsoncommonstockandrestrictionsonthepaymentofdividends.
Duringthefourthquarterof2013,M&Tdidnotissueanysharesofitscommonstockthatwerenot
registeredundertheSecuritiesActof1933.
EquityCompensationPlanInformation
ThefollowingtableprovidesinformationasofDecember31,2013withrespecttosharesofcommonstockthat

maybeissuedunderM&T™sexistingequitycompensatio
nplans.M&T™sexistingequitycompensationplans
includetheM&TBankCorporation2001StockOptionPlan,the2005IncentiveCompensationPlan,which

replacedthe2001StockOptionPlan,andthe2009EquityIncentiveCompensationPlan,eachofwhichhas

beenpreviouslyapprovedbyshareholders,andtheM&TBankCorporation2008Directors™StockPlanandthe

M&TBankCorporationDeferredBonusPlan,eachofwhichdidnotrequireshareholderapproval.
Thetabledoesnotincludeinformationwithrespecttosharesofcommonstocksubjectto
outstandingoptionsandrightsassumedbyM&Tinconnectionwithmergersandacquisitionsofthe

companiesthatoriginallygrantedthoseoptionsandrights.Footnote(1)tothetablesetsforththetotal

numberofsharesofcommonstockissuableupontheexerciseofsuchassumedoptionsandrightsasof

December31,2013,andtheirweighted-averageexerciseprice.
PlanCategory
Numberof
SecuritiestobeIssuedUpon
Exerciseof
OutstandingOptionsorRights
Weighted-AverageExercisePriceof
OutstandingOptionsorRights
NumberofSecurities
RemainingAvailable
forFutureIssuance
UnderEquity
CompensationPlans
(ExcludingSecurities
ReflectedinColumnA)
(A)(B)(C)
Equitycompensationplansapprovedby
securityholders:
2001StockOptionPlan
...............833,829$100.09Š
2005IncentiveCompensationPlan
......3,904,299104.773,357,716
2009EquityIncentiveCompensation
Plan.............................3,45475.131,516,826
Equitycompensationplansnotapprovedby
securityholders:
2008Directors™StockPlan
.............3,788116.4298,244
DeferredBonusPlan
..................33,04664.11Š
Total............................4,778,416$103.654,972,786
(1)AsofDecember31,2013,atotalof153,364sharesofM&Tcommonstockwereissuableuponexerciseof
outstandingoptionsorrightsassumedbyM&Tinconnectionwithmergerandacquisitiontransactions.The

weighted-averageexercisepriceofthoseoutstandingoptionsorrightsis$149.04percommonshare.
36Equitycompensationplansadoptedwithouttheapprovalofshareholdersaredescribedbelow:
2008Directors™StockPlan.
M&Tmaintainsaplanfornon-employeemembersoftheBoardof
DirectorsofM&TandthemembersofitsDirectorsAdvisoryCouncil,andthenon-employeemembersof

theBoardofDirectorsofM&TBankandthemembersofitsregionalDirectorsAdvisoryCouncils,which

allowssuchdirectors,advisorydirectorsandmembersofregionalDirectorsAdvisoryCouncilstoreceiveall

oraportionoftheirdirectorialcompensationinsharesofM&Tcommonstock.
DeferredBonusPlan.
M&TmaintainsadeferredbonusplanwhichwasfrozeneffectiveJanuary1,
2010anddidnotallowanydeferralsafterthatdate.PriortoJanuary1,2010,theplanallowedeligible

officersofM&Tanditssubsidiariestoelecttodeferalloraportionoftheirannualincentivecompensation

awardsandallocatesuchawardstoseveralinvestmentoptions,includingM&Tcommonstock.Atthetime

ofthedeferralelection,participantsalsoelectedthetimingofdistributionsfromtheplan.Suchdistributions

arepayableincash,withtheexceptionofbalancesallocatedtoM&Tcommonstockwhicharedistributable

intheformofsharesofcommonstock.
PerformanceGraph
ThefollowinggraphcontainsacomparisonofthecumulativeshareholderreturnonM&Tcommonstock

againstthecumulativetotalreturnsoftheKBWBankIndex,compiledbyKeefe,Bruyette&Woods,Inc.,

andtheS&P500Index,compiledbyStandard&Poor™sCorporation,forthefive-yearperiodbeginningon

December31,2008andendingonDecember31,2013.TheKBWBankIndexisamarketcapitalization

indexconsistingof24companiesrepresentingleadingnationalmoneycentersandregionalbanksorthrifts.
$020082009201020112013
2012$50$100$150$300$250$200Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Return*M&T Bank CorporationKBW Bank IndexS&P 500 IndexShareholderValueatYearEnd*
200820092010201120122013
M&TBankCorporation100123166151201243
KBWBankIndex10010411687119162

S&P500Index100126146149172228
*Assumesa$100investmentonDecember31,2008andreinvestmentofalldividends.
Inaccordancewithandtotheextentpermittedbyapplicablelaworregulation,theinformationset
forthaboveundertheheadingﬁPerformanceGraphﬂsha
llnotbeincorporatedbyreferenceintoanyfuture
filingundertheSecuritiesActof1933,asamended(theﬁSecuritiesActﬂ),ortheExchangeActandshallnotbe

deemedtobeﬁsolicitingmaterialﬂortobeﬁfiledﬂwiththeSECundertheSecuritiesActortheExchangeAct.
37IssuerPurchasesofEquitySecurities
InFebruary2007,M&TannouncedthatithadbeenauthorizedbyitsBoardofDirectorstopurchaseupto

5,000,000sharesofitscommonstock.M&Tdidnotrepurchaseanysharespursuanttosuchplanduring2013.
During3thefourthquarterof2013M&Tpurchasedsharesofitscommonstockasfollows:
Period(a)TotalNumberofShares
(orUnits)
Purchased(1)(b)AveragePricePaid
perShare
(orUnit)
(c)TotalNumberofShares
(orUnits)
PurchasedasPartof
PubliclyAnnouncedPlansor
Programs(d)MaximumNumber(or
ApproximateDollarValue)ofShares
(orUnits)
thatmayyet
bePurchased
Underthe
Plansor
Programs(2)October1-October31,2013
.....................11,939$113.84Š2,181,500
November1-November30,2013
.................35,942115.24Š2,181,500
December1-December31,2013
..................5,615114.46Š2,181,500
Total.........................................53,496$114.85Š
(1)Thetotalnumberofsharespurchasedduringtheperiodsindicatedreflectssharesdeemedtohavebeenreceived
fromemployeeswhoexercisedstockoptionsbyattestingtopreviouslyacquiredcommonsharesinsatisfactionof

theexercisepriceorsharesreceivedfromemployeesuponthevestingofrestrictedstockawardsinsatisfactionof

applicabletaxwithholdingobligations,asispermittedunderM&T™sstock-basedcompensationplans.
(2)OnFebruary22,2007,M&Tannouncedaprogramtopurchaseupto5,000,000sharesofitscommonstock.No
shareswerepurchasedundersuchprogramduringtheperiodsindicated.
Item6.
SelectedFinancialData.
Seecross-referencesheetfordisclosuresincorporatedelsewhereinthisAnnualReportonForm10-K.
Item7.
Management™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations.
CorporateProfileandSignificantDevelopments
M&TBankCorporation(ﬁM&Tﬂ)isabankholdingcompanyheadquarteredinBuffalo,NewYorkwith

consolidatedassetsof$85.2billionatDecember31,2013.Theconsolidatedfinancialinformationpresented

hereinreflectsM&Tandallofitssubsidiaries,whicharereferredtocollectivelyasﬁtheCompany.ﬂM&T™s

whollyownedbanksubsidiariesareM&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,NationalAssociation(ﬁWilmington

Trust,N.A.ﬂ).
M&TBank,withtotalassetsof$84.4billionatDecember31,2013,isaNewYork-chartered
commercialbankwith720domesticbankingofficesinNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,Delaware,

Virginia,WestVirginia,andtheDistrictofColumbia,afull-servicecommercialbankingofficeinOntario,

Canada,andanofficeintheCaymanIslands.M&TBankanditssubsidiariesofferabroadrangeoffinancial

servicestoadiversebaseofconsumers,businesses,professionalclients,governmentalentitiesandfinancial

institutionslocatedintheirmarkets.LendingislargelyfocusedonconsumersresidinginNewYorkState,

Pennsylvania,Maryland,Virginia,DelawareandWashington,D.C.,andonsmallandmediumsize

businessesbasedinthoseareas,althoughloansareoriginatedthroughlendingofficesinotherstatesandin

Ontario,Canada.Certainlendingactivitiesarealsoconductedinotherstatesthroughvarioussubsidiaries.

TrustandotherfiduciaryservicesareofferedbyM&TBankandthroughitswhollyownedsubsidiary,

WilmingtonTrustCompany.OthersubsidiariesofM&TBankinclude:M&TRealEstateTrust,a

commercialmortgagelender;M&TRealtyCapitalCorporation,amultifamilycommercialmortgagelender;

M&TSecurities,Inc.,whichprovidesbrokerage,investmentadvisoryandinsuranceservices;Wilmington

TrustInvestmentAdvisors,Inc.,whichservesasinvestmentadvisortotheWilmingtonFunds,afamilyof

proprietarymutualfunds,andotherfundsandinstitutionalclients;andM&TInsuranceAgency,Inc.,an

insuranceagency.
WilmingtonTrust,N.A.,withtotalassetsof$1.7billionatDecember31,2013,isanationalbankwith
officesinWilmington,DelawareandOakfield,NewYork.WilmingtonTrust,N.A.anditssubsidiariesoffer

varioustrustandwealthmanagementservices.WilmingtonTrust,N.A.alsoofferedselecteddepositandloan

productsonanationwidebasis,largelythroughteleph
one,Internetanddirectmailmarketingtechniques.
38OnAugust27,2012,M&TannouncedthatithadenteredintoadefinitiveagreementwithHudson
CityBancorp,Inc.(ﬁHudsonCityﬂ),headquarteredinParamus,NewJersey,underwhichHudsonCity

wouldbeacquiredbyM&T.Pursuanttothetermsoftheagreement,HudsonCitycommonshareholders

willreceiveconsiderationforeachcommonshareofHudsonCityinanamountvaluedat.08403ofanM&T

shareintheformofeitherM&Tcommonstockorcash,basedontheelectionofeachHudsonCity

shareholder,subjecttoprorationasspecifiedinthemergeragreement(whichprovidesforanaggregatesplit

oftotalconsiderationof60%commonstockofM&Tand40%cash).Theestimatedpurchaseprice

consideringtheclosingpriceofM&T™scommonstockof$116.42onDecember31,2013was$5.0billion.
AsofDecember31,2013,HudsonCityreported$38.6billionofassets,including$24.2billionof
loans(predominantlyresidentialrealestateloans)and$9.3billionofinvestmentsecurities,and$33.9billion

ofliabilities,including$21.5billionofdeposits.Themergerhasreceivedtheapprovalofthecommon

shareholdersofM&TandHudsonCity.However,themergerissubjecttoanumberofconditions,

includingregulatoryapprovals.
OnJune17,2013,M&TandM&TBankenteredintoawrittenagreementwiththeFederalReserve
BankofNewYork(ﬁFederalReserveBankﬂ).Underthetermsoftheagreement,M&TandM&TBankare

requiredtosubmittotheFederalReserveBankarevisedcomplianceriskmanagementprogramdesignedto

ensurecompliancewiththeBankSecrecyActandanti-moneylaunderinglawsandregulations

(ﬁBSA/AMLﬂ)andtotakecertainotherstepstoenhancetheircompliancepractices.TheCompany

commencedamajorinitiative,includingthehiringofoutsideconsultingfirms,intendedtofullyaddress

thoseregulatorconcerns.M&TandM&TBankcontinuetomakeprogresstowardscompletingthis

initiative.Inviewofthetimeframerequiredtoimplementthisinitiative,demonstrateitsefficacytothe

satisfactionoftheregulatorsandotherwisemeetanyotherregulatoryrequirementsthatmaybeimposedin

connectionwiththesematters,thetimeframeforclosingthetransactionbetweenM&TandHudsonCity

hasextendedbeyondthedatepreviouslyexpected.Accordingly,M&TandHudsonCityextendedthedate

afterwhicheitherpartymayelecttoterminatethemergeragreementifthemergerhasnotyetbeen

completedtoDecember31,2014.Nevertheless,therecanbenoassurancesthatthemergerwillbe

completedbythatdate.M&TandHudsonCityintendtoclosethemergerassoonaspossiblefollowingthe

receiptofallnecessaryregulatoryapprovalsandsatisfactionofallotherconditionstoclosing.
M&TparticipatedintheTroubledAssetReliefProgramŠCapitalPurchaseProgram(ﬁTARPﬂ)of
theU.S.DepartmentofTreasury(ﬁU.S.Treasuryﬂ),whichwasinitiatedduring2008,bothbyissuing

preferredshares(SeriesA)inDecember2008andthroughthe2009acquisitionofProvidentBankshares

Corporation(ﬁProvidentﬂ)byassumingshares(SeriesC)thathadbeenissuedbythatcorporationin

November2008.InAugust2012,theU.S.TreasurysolditsholdingsofM&T™sSeriesA(230,000shares)and

SeriesC(151,500shares)PreferredStocktothepublicwhichallowedM&TtoexittheTARP.M&T

modifiedcertainofthetermsoftheSeriesAandSeriesCPreferredStockrelatedtothedividendrateonthe

preferredsharesattheresetdates,whichwasoriginallysettochangeto9%onNovember15,2013forthe

SeriesCpreferredsharesandonFebruary15,2014fortheSeriesApreferredshares.Ineachcase,the

dividendratechangedto6.375%onNovember15,2013ratherthantothe9%intheoriginalterms.The

othermodificationrelatedtoM&TagreeingtonotredeemtheSeriesAandSeriesCpreferredsharesuntil

onorafterNovember15,2018,exceptthatifaneventoccurssuchthatthesharesnolongerqualifyasTier1

Capital,M&Tmayredeemalloftheshareswithin90daysfollowingthatoccurrence.
OnMay16,2011,M&TacquiredalloftheoutstandingcommonstockofWilmingtonTrust
Corporation(ﬁWilmingtonTrustﬂ),headquarteredinWilmington,Delaware,inastock-for-stock

transaction.WilmingtonTrustoperated55bankingofficesinDelawareandPennsylvaniaatthedateof

acquisition.TheresultsofoperationsacquiredintheWilmingtonTrusttransactionhavebeenincludedin

theCompany™sfinancialresultssincetheacquisitiondate.WilmingtonTrustshareholdersreceived.051372

sharesofM&TcommonstockinexchangeforeachshareofWilmingtonTrustcommonstock,resultingin

M&Tissuingatotalof4,694,486commonshareswithanacquisitiondatefairvalueof$406million.
TheWilmingtonTrusttransactionwasaccountedforusingtheacquisitionmethodofaccounting
and,accordingly,assetsacquired,liabilitiesassumedandconsiderationexchangedwererecordedat

estimatedfairvalueontheacquisitiondate.Assetsacquiredtotaledapproximately$10.8billion,including

$6.4billionofloansandleases(includingapproximately$3.2billionofcommercialrealestateloans,$1.4

billionofcommercialloansandleases,$1.1billionofconsumerloansand$680millionofresidentialreal

estateloans).Liabilitiesassumedaggregated$10.0billion,including$8.9billionofdeposits.Thecommon

stockissuedinthetransactionadded$406milliontoM&T™scommonshareholders™equity.Immediately
39priortotheclosingoftheWilmingtonTrusttransaction,M&Tredeemedthe$330millionofpreferredstock
issuedbyWilmingtonTrustaspartoftheTARPoftheU.S.Treasury.Inconnectionwiththeacquisition,

theCompanyrecorded$112millionofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets.Thecoredepositandother

intangibleassetsaregenerallybeingamortizedoverperiodsof5to7yearsusingacceleratedmethods.There

wasnogoodwillrecordedasaresultofthetransaction;however,inaccordancewithgenerallyaccepted

accountingprinciples(ﬁGAAPﬂ),anon-taxablegainof$65millionwasrealized,whichrepresentedthe

excessofthefairvalueofassetsacquiredlessliabilitiesassumedoverconsiderationexchanged.The

acquisitionofWilmingtonTrustaddedtoM&T™smarket-leadingpositionintheMid-Atlanticregionby

givingM&TaleadingdepositmarketshareinDelaware.
RecentLegislativeDevelopments
TheDodd-FrankWallStreetReformandConsumerProtectionAct(ﬁDodd-FrankActﬂ)thatwassigned

intolawonJuly21,2010hasandwillcontinuetosignificantlychangethebankregulatorystructureand

affectthelending,deposit,investment,tradingandoperatingactivitiesoffinancialinstitutionsandtheir

holdingcompanies,andthesystemofregulatoryoversightoftheCompany.TheDodd-FrankActrequires

variousfederalagenciestoadoptabroadrangeofnewimplementingrulesandregulations,andtoprepare

numerousstudiesandreportsforCongress,manyofwhicharenotyetcompletedorimplemented.The

Dodd-FrankActcouldhaveamaterialadverseimpactonthefinancialservicesindustryasawhole,aswellas

onM&T™sbusiness,resultsofoperations,financialconditionandliquidity.
AdiscussionoftheprovisionsoftheDodd-FrankActisincludedinPartI,Item1ofthisForm10-K.

OnJuly31,2013,theU.S.DistrictCourtfortheDistrictofColumbiaissuedanordergranting
summaryjudgmenttotheplaintiffsinacasechallengingcertainprovisionsoftheFederalReserveBoard™s

ruleconcerningelectronicdebitcardtransactionfeesandnetworkexclusivityarrangements(theﬁCurrent

Ruleﬂ)thatwereadoptedtoimplementSection1075oftheDodd-FrankActŠtheso-calledﬁDurbin

Amendment.ﬂTheCourtheldthat,inadoptingtheCurrentRule,theFederalReserveviolatedtheDurbin

Amendment™sprovisionsconcerningwhichcostsareallowedtobetakenintoaccountforpurposesof

settingfeesthatareﬁreasonableandproportionaltothecostsincurredbytheissuerﬂandthereforethe

CurrentRule™smaximumpermissiblefeesweretoohigh.Inaddition,theCourtheldthattheCurrentRule™s

networknon-exclusivityprovisionsconcerningunaffiliatedpaymentnetworksfordebitcardsalsoviolated

theDurbinAmendment.TheCourtvacatedtheCurrentRule.TheCourt™sjudgmentwasstayedin

September2013pendingappealbytheFederalReserve.TheFederalReservefileditsappealinOctober2013.

ThefeelimitsintheCurrentRulewillremainineffectuntiltheFederalReserverevisestherule,ifitis

ultimatelyrequiredtodoso.IftheFederalReserveisnotsuccessfulinitsappealandre-issuesrulesfor

purposesofimplementingtheDurbinAmendmentinamannerconsistentwiththisdecision,theamountof

debitcardinterchangefeestheCompanywouldbepermittedtochargelikelywouldbereduced.The

amountofsuchreductioncannotbeestimatedatthistime.
InJuly2013,theFederalReserveBoard,theOfficeoftheComptrolleroftheCurrencyandthe
FederalDepositInsuranceCorporationapprovedfinalrules(theﬁNewCapitalRulesﬂ)establishinganew

comprehensivecapitalframeworkforU.S.bankingorganizations.TheNewCapitalRulesgenerally

implementtheBaselCommitteeonBankingSupervision™s(theﬁBaselCommitteeﬂ)December2010final

capitalframeworkreferredtoasﬁBaselIIIﬂforstrengtheninginternationalcapitalstandards.TheNew

CapitalRulessubstantiallyrevisetherisk-basedcapitalrequirementsapplicabletobankholdingcompanies

andtheirdepositoryinstitutionsubsidiaries,includingM&TandM&TBank,ascomparedtothecurrent

U.S.generalrisk-basedcapitalrules.
TheNewCapitalRulesalsoprecludecertainhybridsecurities,suchastrustpreferredsecurities,from
inclusioninbankholdingcompanies™Tier1capital,subjecttophase-outinthecaseofbankholding

companies,suchasM&T,thathad$15billionormoreintotalconsolidatedassetsasofDecember31,2009.

Asaresult,beginningin201525%ofM&T™strustpreferredsecuritieswillbeincludableinTier1capital,

andin2016,noneofM&T™strustpreferredsecuritieswillbeincludableinTier1capital.Trustpreferred

securitiesnolongerincludedinM&T™sTier1capitalmaynonethelessbeincludedasacomponentofTier2

capitalonapermanentbasiswithoutphase-outandirrespectiveofwhethersuchsecuritiesotherwisemeet

thereviseddefinitionofTier2capitalsetforthintheNewCapitalRules.Inthefirstquarterof2014,M&T

willredeem$350millionof8.50%juniorsubordinateddebenturesassociatedwiththetrustpreferredcapital

securitiesofM&TCapitalTrustIVandissuedpreferredstockthatqualifiesasregulatorycapital.Adetailed

discussionoftheNewCapitalRulesisincludedinPartI,Item1ofthisForm10-Kundertheheading

ﬁCapitalRequirements.ﬂ
40ManagementbelievesthattheCompanywillbeabletocomplywiththetargetedcapitalratiosupon
implementationoftherevisedrequirements,asfinalized.Morespecifically,managementestimatesthatthe

Company™sratioofCommonEquityTier1(ﬁCET1ﬂ)torisk-weightedassetsundertheNewCapitalRules

(andasdefinedtherein)onafullyphased-inbasiswasapproximately8.98%asofDecember31,2013,

reflectingagoodfaithestimateofthecomputationofCET1andtheCompany™srisk-weightedassetsunder

themethodologiessetforthintheNewCapitalRules.
TheCompany™sregulatorycapitalratiosunderrisk-basedcapitalrulescurrentlyineffectare
presentedinnote23ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
OnDecember10,2013,theFederalReserveBoard,theOfficeoftheComptrolleroftheCurrency,the
FederalDepositInsuranceCorporationandtheSecuritiesandExchangeCommissionadoptedthefinalversion

oftheVolckerRule,whichwasmandatedunderDodd-Frank.TheVolckerRuleisintendedtoeffectively

reducerisksposedtobankingentitiesfromproprietarytradingactivitiesandinvestmentsinorrelationships

withcoveredfunds.Bankingentitiesaregenerallyprohibitedfromengaginginproprietarytrading.The

Companydoesnotbelievethatitengagesinanysignificantamountofproprietarytradingasdefinedinthe

VolckerRuleandthatanyimpactwouldbeminimal.Inaddition,areviewoftheCompany™sinvestmentswas

undertakentodetermineifanymeettheVolckerRule™sdefinitionofcoveredfunds.Basedonthatreview,the

Companybelievesthatanyimpactrelatedtoinvestmentsconsideredtobecoveredfundswouldnothavea

significanteffectontheCompany™sfinancialconditionoritsresultsofoperations.Nevertheless,theCompany

mayberequiredtodivestcertaininvestmentssubjecttotheVolckerRulebymid-2015.
OnOctober24,2013,theFederalReserveBoardandotherbankingregulatorsissuedaninteragency
proposalfortheU.S.versionoftheBaselCommittee™sLiquidityCoverageRatio(ﬁLCRﬂ).TheLCRrequires

abankingorganizationtomaintainaminimumamountofliquidassetstowithstanda30-daystandardized

supervisoryliquiditystressscenario.TheproposedeffectivedateisJanuary1,2015,subjecttoatwo-year

phase-inperiod.
CriticalAccountingEstimates
TheCompany™ssignificantaccountingpoliciesconformwithGAAPandaredescribedinnote1ofNotesto

FinancialStatements.Inapplyingthoseaccountingpolicies,managementoftheCompanyisrequiredto

exercisejudgmentindeterminingmanyofthemethodologies,assumptionsandestimatestobeutilized.

Certainofthecriticalaccountingestimatesaremoredependentonsuchjudgmentandinsomecasesmay

contributetovolatilityintheCompany™sreportedfinancialperformanceshouldtheassumptionsand

estimatesusedchangeovertimeduetochangesincircumstances.Someofthemoresignificantareasin

whichmanagementoftheCompanyappliescriticalassumptionsandestimatesincludethefollowing:
ŠAccountingforcreditlossesŠTheallowanceforcreditlossesrepresentstheamountthatin

management™sjudgmentappropriatelyreflectscreditlossesinherentintheloanandleaseportfolioas

ofthebalancesheetdate.Aprovisionforcreditlossesisrecordedtoadjusttheleveloftheallowance

asdeemednecessarybymanagement.Inestimatinglossesinherentintheloanandleaseportfolio,

assumptionsandjudgmentareappliedtomeasureamountsandtimingofexpectedfuturecash

flows,collateralvaluesandotherfactorsusedtodeterminetheborrowers™abilitiestorepay

obligations.Historicallosstrendsarealsoconsidered,asareeconomicconditions,industrytrends,

portfoliotrendsandborrower-specificfinancialdata.Inaccountingforloansacquiredatadiscount,

whichareinitiallyrecordedatfairvaluewithnocarry-overofanacquiredentity™spreviously

establishedallowanceforcreditlosses,thecashflowsexpectedatacquisitioninexcessofestimated

fairvaluearerecognizedasinterestincomeovertheremaininglivesoftheloans.Subsequent

decreasesintheexpectedprincipalcashflowsrequiretheCompanytoevaluatetheneedforadditions

totheCompany™sallowanceforcreditlosses.Subsequentimprovementsinexpectedcashflowsresult

firstintherecoveryofanyapplicableallowanceforcreditlossesandthenintherecognitionof

additionalinterestincomeovertheremaininglivesoftheloans.Changesinthecircumstances

consideredwhendeterminingmanagement™sestimatesandassumptionscouldresultinchangesin

thoseestimatesandassumptions,whichmayresultinadjustmentoftheallowanceor,inthecaseof

acquiredloans,increasesininterestincomeinfutureperiods.Adetaileddiscussionoffactsand

circumstancesconsideredbymanagementindeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlossesisincluded

hereinundertheheadingﬁProvisionforCreditLossesﬂandinnote5ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.ŠValuationmethodologiesŠManagementoftheCompanyappliesvariousvaluationmethodologies

toassetsandliabilitieswhichofteninvolveasignificantdegreeofjudgment,particularlywhenliquid
41marketsdonotexistfortheparticularitemsbeingvalued.Quotedmarketpricesarereferredtowhen
estimatingfairvaluesforcertainassets,suchastradingassets,mostinvestmentsecurities,and

residentialrealestateloansheldforsaleandrelatedcommitments.However,forthoseitemsfor

whichanobservableliquidmarketdoesnotexist,managementutilizessignificantestimatesand

assumptionstovaluesuchitems.Examplesoftheseitemsincludeloans,deposits,borrowings,

goodwill,coredepositandotherintangibleassets,andotherassetsandliabilitiesobtainedor

assumedinbusinesscombinations;capitalizedservicingassets;pensionandotherpostretirement

benefitobligations;estimatedresidualvaluesofpropertyassociatedwithleases;andcertainderivative

andotherfinancialinstruments.Thesevaluationsrequiretheuseofvariousassumptions,including,

amongothers,discountrates,ratesofreturnonassets,repaymentrates,cashflows,defaultrates,

costsofservicingandliquidationvalues.Theuseofdifferentassumptionscouldproduce

significantlydifferentresults,whichcouldhavematerialpositiveornegativeeffectsonthe

Company™sresultsofoperations.Inadditiontovaluation,theCompanymustassesswhetherthere

areanydeclinesinvaluebelowthecarryingvalueofassetsthatshouldbeconsideredotherthan

temporaryorotherwiserequireanadjustmentincarryingvalueandrecognitionofalossinthe

consolidatedstatementofincome.Examplesincludeinvestmentsecurities,otherinvestments,

mortgageservicingrights,goodwill,coredepositandotherintangibleassets,amongothers.Specific

assumptionsandestimatesutilizedbymanagementarediscussedindetailhereininmanagement™s

discussionandanalysisoffinancialconditionandresultsofoperationsandinnotes1,3,4,7,8,12,

18,19and20ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
ŠCommitments,contingenciesandoff-balancesheetarrangementsŠInformationregardingthe

Company™scommitmentsandcontingencies,includingguaranteesandcontingentliabilitiesarising

fromlitigation,andtheirpotentialeffectsontheCompany™sresultsofoperationsisincludedin

note21ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Inaddition,theCompanyisroutinelysubjectto

examinationsfromvariousgovernmentaltaxingauthorities.Suchexaminationsmayresultin

challengestothetaxreturntreatmentappliedbytheCompanytospecifictransactions.Management

believesthattheassumptionsandjudgmentusedtorecordtax-relatedassetsorliabilitieshavebeen

appropriate.Shouldtaxlawschangeorthetaxauthoritiesdeterminethatmanagement™sassumptions

wereinappropriate,theresultandadjustmentsrequiredcouldhaveamaterialeffectonthe

Company™sresultsofoperations.InformationregardingtheCompany™sincometaxesispresentedin

note13ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Therecognitionorde-recognitionintheCompany™s

consolidatedfinancialstatementsofassetsandliabilitiesheldbyso-calledvariableinterestentitiesis

subjecttotheinterpretationandapplicationofcomplexaccountingpronouncementsor

interpretationsthatrequiremanagementtoestimateandassesstherelativesignificanceofthe

Company™sfinancialinterestsinthoseentitiesandthedegreetowhichtheCompanycaninfluence

themostimportantactivitiesoftheentities.InformationrelatingtotheCompany™sinvolvementin

suchentitiesandtheaccountingtreatmentaffordedeachsuchinvolvementisincludedinnote19of

NotestoFinancialStatements.
OverviewNetincomefortheCompanyduring2013was$1.14billionor$8.20ofdilutedearningspercommonshare,

up11%and9%,respectively,from$1.03billionor$7.54ofdilutedearningspercommonsharein2012.

Basicearningspercommonshareincreased9%to$8.26in2013from$7.57in2012.Netincomein2011

aggregated$859million,whiledilutedandbasicearningspercommonsharewere$6.35and$6.37,

respectively.Theafter-taximpactofnetmerger-relatedgainsandexpensesassociatedwiththeacquisition

transactionspreviouslydescribedtotaledtoexpensesof$8million($12millionpre-tax)or$.06ofbasicand

dilutedearningspercommonsharein2013,comparedwithexpensesof$6million($10millionpre-tax)or

$.05ofbasicanddilutedearningspercommonsharein2012andnetgainsof$13million(netexpensesof

$19millionpre-tax)or$.10ofbasicanddilutedearningspercommonsharein2011.Expressedasarateof

returnonaverageassets,netincomein2013was1.36%,comparedwith1.29%in2012and1.16%in2011.

Thereturnonaveragecommonshareholders™equitywas10.93%in2013,10.96%in2012and9.67%in

2011.TheCompany™simprovedperformancein2013ascomparedwith2012reflectedcertainnoteworthy
items.Duringthesecondquarter,theCompanysoldthemajorityofitsprivatelyissuedmortgage-backed

securities(ﬁMBSﬂ)thathadbeenheldintheavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesportfolioforanafter-

taxlossof$28million($46millionpre-tax),or$.22perdilutedcommonshare.Inaddition,theCompany™s
42holdingsofVisaandMasterCardsharesweresoldforanafter-taxgainof$62million($103millionpre-tax),
or$.48perdilutedcommonshare.Finally,reflectedin2013™sresultswereafter-taxgainsfromloan

securitizationtransactionsof$38million($63millionpre-tax),or$.29perdilutedcommonshare.The

Companysecuritizedduringthesecondandthirdquartersof2013approximately$1.3billionofone-to-

fourfamilyresidentialrealestateloanspreviouslyheldintheCompany™sloanportfoliointoguaranteed

mortgage-backedsecuritieswiththeGovernmentNationalMortgageAssociation(ﬁGinnieMaeﬂ)and

recognizedgainsof$42million.TheCompanyretainedthesubstantialmajorityofthosesecuritiesinits

investmentsecuritiesportfolio.Inaddition,theCompanysecuritizedandsoldinSeptember2013

approximately$1.4billionofautomobileloansheldinitsloanportfolio,resultinginagainof$21million.

Partiallyoffsettingthepositiveimpactofthe2013securitytransactionsandgainsonsecuritizationactivities

werehigheroperatingexpenseslargelyattributabletoincreasedcostsforprofessionalservicesandsalaries.

TheCompany™simprovedfinancialperformancein2012ascomparedwith2011resultedfromanincrease

innetinterestincome,lowercreditcostsandsignificantlyhighermortgagebankingrevenuesandtrust

income,partiallyoffsetbynetinvestmentsecuritieslossesin2012,comparedwithnetgainsoninvestment

securitiesin2011.Resultsfor2012reflectedthefull-yearimpactoftheoperationsobtainedfromthe

acquisitionofWilmingtonTrustonMay16,2011.
Taxable-equivalentnetinterestincomeincreased3%to$2.70billionin2013from$2.62billionin
2012.Thatimprovementresultedlargelyfromgrowthinaverageloansandleasesof$2.4billionor4%.The

netinterestmargin,ortaxable-equivalentnetinterestincomedividedbyaverageearningassets,was3.65%

in2013,down8basispoints(hundredthsofonepercent)from3.73%in2012.Taxable-equivalentnet

interestincomerose$209millionor9%in2012ascomparedwith2011,resultingfroma$6.5billion,or

12%,increaseinaverageloansandleases.Thenetinterestmarginin2012wasunchangedfrom2011.
Theprovisionforcreditlossesin2013declined9%to$185millionfrom$204millionin2012.Net
charge-offsof$183millionin2013weredownfrom$186millionintheprioryear.Netcharge-offsasa

percentageofaverageloansandleaseswere.28%and.30%in2013and2012,respectively.TheCompany

continuedtoexperienceimprovementincreditqualityduring2013.Theprovisionforcreditlossesin2012

was$66millionor24%below$270millionin2011.Netcharge-offsin2012declined$79millionfrom$265

million,or.47%ofaverageloansandleases,in2011.
Otherincometotaled$1.87billionin2013,12%above$1.67billionin2012.Thatrisewasprimarily
theresultofnetgainsoninvestmentsecuritiesof$47millionin2013,comparedwithnetlossesof$48

millionin2012,andgainsonsecuritizationactivitiesin2013of$63million.Reflectedingainsandlosseson

investmentsecuritieswereother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesof$10millionand$48millionin

2013and2012,respectively,oncertainprivatelyissuedcollateralizedmortgageobligations(ﬁCMOsﬂ).In

addition,trustincomein2013rose$24million,or5%,from2012whilemortgagebankingrevenues

declined$18million,or5%,fromtheprioryear.Otherincomeincreased5%or$84millionin2012from

$1.58billionin2011.Thatimprovementwasledbymortgagebankingrevenues,whichrose$183millionor

110%,andtrustincome,whichincreased$139millionor42%,from2011.Gainsandlossesonbank

investmentsecuritiestotaledtonetgainsof$73millionin2011,comparedwiththe$48millionofnetlosses

in2012.Reflectedinthe2011netgainswereother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesof$77millionon

certainprivatelyissuedCMOs,andgainsof$150millionfromthesaleofinvestmentsecuritiesavailablefor

sale.Thosesoldsecuritieswerepredominantlymortgage-backedsecuritiesguaranteedbygovernment-

sponsoredentitiesthatweresoldinconnectionwiththeWilmingtonTrustacquisitioninordertomanage

theCompany™sbalancesheetcompositionandresultantcapitalratios.Alsoreflectedinotherincomein

2011was$55millionofcashreceivedinfullsettlementofalawsuitinitiatedbyM&Tin2008underwhich

M&Tsoughtdamagesarisingfroma2007investmentincollateralizeddebtobligations(ﬁCDOsﬂ)and

allegedthatthequalityoftheinvestmentwasnotasrepresented.The$65millionnon-taxablegain

associatedwiththeacquisitionofWilmingtonTrustwasalsoincludedinotherincomein2011.
Otherexpenseincreased5%to$2.64billionin2013from$2.51billionin2012.During2011,other
expensetotaled$2.48billion.IncludedinthoseamountsareexpensesconsideredbyM&Ttobe

ﬁnonoperatingﬂinnature,consistingofamortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsof$47

million,$61millionand$62millionin2013,2012and2011,respectively,andmerger-relatedexpensesof

$12millionin2013,$10millionin2012and$84millionin2011.Exclusiveofthosenonoperatingexpenses,

noninterestoperatingexpensesaggregated$2.58billionin2013,comparedwith$2.44billionin2012and

$2.33billionin2011.Theriseinsuchexpensesfrom2012to2013waslargelyattributabletohighercostsfor

professionalservicesandsalaries,partiallyoffsetbylowerFDICassessmentsandthereversalofanaccrual

foracontingentcompensationobligationassumedintheMay2011acquisitionofWilmingtonTrustthat
43expired,resultingina$26millionreductionofﬁothercostsofoperations.ﬂInaddition,theCompany
reachedalegalsettlementofapreviouslydisclosedlawsuitrelatedtoissuesthatwereallegedtooccurat

WilmingtonTrustCompanypriortoitsacquisitionbyM&Tthatledtoa$40millionincreaseinthe

Company™sreserveforlitigationasofDecember31,2013.Reflectedin2011™snoninterestoperating

expenseswerea$79millionother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargerelatedtoM&T™s20%investmentin

BayviewLendingGroupLLC(ﬁBLGﬂ)anda$30milliontax-deductiblecashcontributiontoTheM&T

CharitableFoundationinthefourthquarter.Afterconsideringthoseitems,theincreaseinnoninterest

operatingexpensesfrom2011to2012waslargelytheresultofthefull-yearimpactoftheoperations

obtainedintheMay2011acquisitionofWilmingtonTrust.
Theefficiencyratioexpressestherelationshipofoperatingexpensestorevenues.TheCompany™s
efficiencyratio,ornoninterestoperatingexpenses(aspreviouslydefined)dividedbythesumoftaxable-

equivalentnetinterestincomeandnoninterestincome(exclusiveofgainsandlossesfrombankinvestment

securitiesandgainsonmergertransactions),was57.0%in2013,comparedwith56.2%and60.4%in2012

and2011,respectively.Thecalculationsoftheefficiencyratioarepresentedintable2.
Table1
EARNINGSSUMMARY
Dollarsinmillions
Increase(Decrease)(a)
CompoundGrowthRate
5Years
2012to2013
2011to2012
Amount%Amount%201320122011201020092008to2013
$14.2Š$150.15Interestincome(b)
...........................$2,982.32,968.12,817.92,753.82,747.0(2)%
(59.1)(17)(59.2)(15)Interestexpense
.............................284.1343.2402.3462.3669.4(27)
73.33209.39Netinterestincome(b)
........................2,698.22,624.92,415.62,291.52,077.67
(19.0)(9)(66.0)(24)Less:provisionforcreditlosses
.................185.0204.0270.0368.0604.0(15)
94.5Š(121.0)ŠGain(loss)onbankinvestmentsecurities(c)
......46.7(47.8)73.2(83.5)(137.1)Š
103.46205.314Otherincome
...............................1,818.51,715.11,509.81,191.61,185.211
Less:40.63110.69Salariesandemployeebenefits
................1,355.21,314.61,204.0999.71,001.97
86.07(79.4)(6)Otherexpense
.............................1,280.71,194.71,274.1915.1978.711
163.610328.426Incomebeforeincometaxes
...................1,742.51,578.91,250.51,116.8541.118
Less:(1.4)(5).52Taxable-equivalentadjustment(b)
.............25.026.425.924.021.83
56.011157.943Incometaxes
..............................579.0523.0365.1356.6139.426
$109.011$170.020Netincome
.................................$1,1
38.51,029.5859.5736.2379.915%
(a)Changeswerecalculatedfromunroundedamounts.
(b)Interestincomedataareonataxable-equivalentbasis.Thetaxable-equivalentadjustmentrepresentsadditional
incometaxesthatwouldbedueifallinterestincomeweresubjecttoincometaxes.Thisadjustment,whichis

relatedtointerestreceivedonqualifiedmunicipalsecurities,industrialrevenuefinancingsandpreferredequity

securities,isbasedonacompositeincometaxrateofapproximately39%.
(c)Includesother-than-temporaryimpairmentlosses,ifany.
SupplementalReportingofNon-GAAPResultsofOperations
Asaresultofbusinesscombinationsandotheracquisitions,theCompanyhadintangibleassetsconsistingof

goodwillandcoredepositandotherintangibleassetstotaling$3.6billionateachofDecember31,2013and

2012,comparedwith$3.7billionatDecember31,2011.Includedinsuchintangibleassetswasgoodwillof

$3.5billionateachofthosedates.Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets,aftertaxeffect,

totaled$29million,$37millionand$38millionduring2013,2012and2011,respectively.
44M&Tconsistentlyprovidessupplementalreportingofitsresultsonaﬁnetoperatingﬂorﬁtangibleﬂ
basis,fromwhichM&Texcludestheafter-taxeffectofamortizationofcoredepositandotherintangible

assets(andtherelatedgoodwill,coredepositintangibleandotherintangibleassetbalances,netofapplicable

deferredtaxamounts)andgainsandexpensesassociatedwithmergingacquiredoperationsintothe

Company,sincesuchitemsareconsideredbymanagementtobeﬁnonoperatingﬂinnature.Thosemerger-

relatedexpensesgenerallyconsistofprofessionalservicesandothertemporaryhelpfeesassociatedwiththe

actualorplannedconversionofsystemsand/orintegrationofoperations;costsrelatedtobranchandoffice

consolidations;costsrelatedtoterminationofexistingcontractualarrangementstopurchasevarious

services;initialmarketingandpromotionexpensesdesignedtointroduceM&TBanktoitsnewcustomers;

severanceforformeremployees;incentivecompensationcosts;travelcosts;andprinting,suppliesandother

costsofcompletingthetransactionsandcommencingoperationsinnewmarketsandoffices.Althoughﬁnet

operatingincomeﬂasdefinedbyM&TisnotaGAAPmeasure,M&T™smanagementbelievesthatthis

informationhelpsinvestorsunderstandtheeffectofacquisitionactivityinreportedresults.
Netoperatingincometotaled$1.17billionin2013,up10%from$1.07billionin2012.Dilutednet
operatingearningspercommonsharein2013rose8%to$8.48from$7.88in2012.Netoperatingincome

anddilutednetoperatingearningspercommonsharewere$884millionand$6.55,respectively,in2011.
Expressedasarateofreturnonaveragetangibleassets,netoperatingincomewas1.47%in2013,
comparedwith1.40%in2012and1.26%in2011.Netoperatingreturnonaveragetangiblecommonequity

was17.79%in2013,comparedwith19.42%and17.96%in2012and2011,respectively.
ReconciliationsofGAAPamountswithcorrespondingnon-GAAPamountsarepresentedintable2.
45Table2
RECONCILIATIONOFGAAPTONON-GAAPMEASURES
201320122011Incomestatementdata
Inthousands,exceptpershare

Netincome

Netincome
.........................................................................$
1,138,480$1,029,498$859,479
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets(a)
...................................28,64437,01137,550
Merger-relatedgain(a)
................................................................ŠŠ
(64,930)Merger-relatedexpenses(a)
............................................................7,5116,00152,154
Netoperatingincome
..............................................................$
1,174,635$1,072,510$884,253
Earningspercommonshare
Dilutedearningspercommonshare
.....................................................$8.20$
7.54$6.35
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets(a)
....................................22.29.30
Merger-relatedgain(a)
................................................................ŠŠ
(.52)Merger-relatedexpenses(a)
.............................................................06.05.42
Dilutednetoperatingearningspercommonshare
........................................$8.48$
7.88$6.55
Otherexpense
Otherexpense
.......................................................................$2,635,885$2,509,260$2,478,068
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets
.....................................(46,912)(60,631)(61,617)
Merger-relatedexpenses
..............................................................(12,364)(9,879)(83,687)
Noninterestoperatingexpense
.......................................................$2,576,609$2,438,750$2,332,764
Merger-relatedexpenses
Salariesandemployeebenefits
..........................................................$836$
4,997$16,131
Equipmentandnetoccupancy
.........................................................69015412
Printing,postageandsupplies
..........................................................1,825Š2,663
Othercostsofoperations
..............................................................9,0134,86764,481
Total............................................................................$
12,364$9,879$83,687
Efficiencyratio
Noninterestoperatingexpense(numerator)
...............................................$2,576,609$2,438,750$2,332,764
Taxable-equivalentnetinterestincome
...................................................2,698,2002,624,9072,415,632
Otherincome
.......................................................................1,865,2051,667,2701,582,912
Less:Gainonbankinvestmentsecurities
.................................................56,4579150,187
NetOTTIlossesrecognizedinearnings
................................................(9,800)(47,822)(77,035)
Merger-relatedgain
................................................................ŠŠ
64,930Denominator.......................................................................$4,516,748$4,339,990$3,860,462
Efficiencyratio
......................................................................57.05%56.19%60.43%
Balancesheetdata
Inmillions

Averageassets

Averageassets
.......................................................................$
83,662$79,983$73,977
Goodwill...........................................................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
..................................................(90)(144)(168)
Deferredtaxes
.......................................................................274243
Averagetangibleassets
..............................................................$
80,074$76,356$70,327
Averagecommonequity
Averagetotalequity
..................................................................$
10,722$9,703$9,004
Preferredstock
......................................................................(878)(869)(797)
Averagecommonequity
............................................................9,8448,8348,207
Goodwill...........................................................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
..................................................(90)(144)(168)
Deferredtaxes
.......................................................................274243
Averagetangiblecommonequity
.....................................................$
6,256$5,207$4,557
Atendofyear
Totalassets

Totalassets
.........................................................................$
85,162$83,009$77,924
Goodwill...........................................................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
..................................................(69)(116)(176)
Deferredtaxes
.......................................................................213451
Totaltangibleassets
................................................................$
81,589$79,402$74,274
Totalcommonequity
Totalequity
........................................................................$
11,306$10,203$9,271
Preferredstock
......................................................................(882)(873)(865)
UndeclareddividendsŠpreferredstock
.................................................(3)(3)(3)
Commonequity,netofundeclaredpreferreddividends
.....................................10,4219,3278,403
Goodwill...........................................................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
..................................................(69)(116)(176)
Deferredtaxes
.......................................................................213451
Totaltangiblecommonequity
........................................................$
6,848$5,720$4,753
(a)Afteranyrelatedtaxeffect.
46NetInterestIncome/LendingandFundingActivities
Netinterestincomeonataxable-equivalentbasistotaled$2.70billionin2013,3%above$2.62billionin

2012.Growthinaverageearningassetswasthemajorfactorforthatincrease,partiallyoffsetbyanarrowing

ofthenetinterestmargin.Averageearningassetswere$74.0billionin2013,up5%from$70.3billionin

2012,theresultofhigheraverageloansandleasesandinterest-bearingdepositsattheFederalReserveBank.

Thenetinterestmargindeclinedto3.65%in2013from3.73%in2012.Contributingtothatnarrowingwere

an11basispointreductionintheaverageyieldonloansandleasesandtheloweryieldingcashbalanceson

depositwiththeFederalReserveBank.
Averageloansandleasesincreased$2.4billionor4%to$65.1billionin2013from$62.7billionin
2012.Commercialloansandleasesaveraged$17.7billionin2013,$1.4billionor9%higherthaninthe

prioryear.Averagebalancesofcommercialrealestateloansrose5%or$1.2billionto$26.1billionin2013

from$24.9billionin2012.Thegrowthincommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloansreflected

increaseddemandbycustomers.Averageresidentialrealestatebalancesgrewto$10.1billionin2013from

$9.7billionintheprecedingyear,resultingfromtheimpactoftheCompanyretainingforportfolioduring

thefirsteightmonthsof2012amajorityoforiginatedresidentialrealestateloans,partiallyoffsetbythe

securitizationof$1.3billionofloansheldintheloanportfolioduringmid-2013.Averageconsumerloans

totaled$11.1billionin2013,down$635millionor5%from$11.7billionin2012dueinparttotheimpact

ofthe$1.4billionautomobileloansecuritizationtransactioncompletedduringthethirdquarterof2013.
Taxable-equivalentnetinterestincomerose9%to$2.62billionin2012from$2.42billionin2011.
Thatimprovementresultedfroma9%increaseinaverageearningassets,to$70.3billionin2012from$64.7

billionin2011.Theriseinaverageearningassetswastheresultofhigheraverageloansandleasespartially

offsetbylowerinterest-bearingdepositsheldattheFederalReserveBank.Thenetinterestmarginof3.73%

in2012wasunchangedfrom2011.
Averagebalancesofloansandleasesincreased$6.5billionor12%in2012from$56.2billionin2011.
Commercialloansandleasesaveraged$16.3billionin2012,up$1.7billionor11%from$14.7billionin

2011.Averagecommercialrealestateloansincreased$2.0billionor9%to$24.9billionin2012from$22.9

billionintheprecedingyear.Thegrowthincommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloansreflected

higherloandemandbycustomers.Residentialrealestateloanbalancesrose$2.9billionor43%to$9.7

billionin2012from$6.8billionin2011,predominantlytheresultoftheCompanyretainingforportfolioa

higherproportionoforiginatedloansduringmostoftheyearratherthansellingthem.Consumerloans

averaged$11.7billionin2012,down$132millionor1%from$11.9billionin2011.Averageloansand

leasesin2012reflectedthefull-yearimpactofloansobtainedintheWilmingtonTrustacquisition.
47Table3
AVERAGEBALANCESHEETSANDTAXABLE-EQUIVALENTRATES
20132012201120102009AverageBalanceInterestAverageRateAverageBalanceInterestAverageRateAverageBalanceInterestAverageRateAverageBalanceInterestAverageRateAverageBalanceInterestAverageRate(Averagebalanceinmillions;interestinthousands)
Assets
Earningassets

Loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount(a)
Commercial,financial,etc.
........................................$17,736$628,1543.54%16,336606,4953.71%14,655564,7873.85%13,092521,7473.99%13,855524,6093.79%
RealestateŠcommercial
.........................................26,0831,198,4004.5324,9071,138,7234.5022,9011,051,7724.5920,714974,0474.7020,085894,6914.45
RealestateŠconsumer
..........................................10,136418,0954.129,727421,5164.336,778334,4214.935,746303,2625.285,297288,4745.45
Consumer......................................................11,098510,9624.6011,732559,2534.7711,865592,3864.9911,745613,4795.2211,722636,0745.43
Totalloansandleases,net
.......................................65,0532,755,6114.2462,7022,725,9874.3556,1992,543,3664.5351,2972,412,5354.7050,9592,343,8484.60
Interest-bearingdepositsatbanks
....................................2,1395,201.245281,221.231,1952,934.2510288.095034.07
Federalfundssoldandagreementstoresellsecurities
.....................128114.09421.55180189.11221446.2052129.25
Tradingaccount
...................................................78
1,4821.91961,3941.45941,4111.5094789.8487640.74
Investmentsecurities(b)
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
..................................5,123165,8793.244,538150,5003.324,165155,3393.734,483191,6774.283,805182,1634.79
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
........................194
9,9995.1522011,6385.2924413,7045.6126615,1075.6722113,1435.94
Other.........................................................1,29844,0193.392,21177,3153.502,655101,0203.803,269133,1764.074,377207,0694.73
Totalinvestmentsecurities
......................................6,615219,8973.326,969239,4533.447,064270,0633.828,018339,9604.248,403402,3754.79
Totalearningassets
.............................................74,0132,982,3054.0370,2992,968,0764.2264,7322,817,9634.3559,7322,753,8184.6159,5512,747,0264.61
Allowanceforcreditlosses
..........................................(932)(922)(916)(906)(864)
Cashandduefrombanks
...........................................1,3801,3841,2071,0991,121
Otherassets
......................................................9,2019,2228,9548,4557,664
Totalassets
...................................................$83,66279,98373,97768,38067,472
LiabilitiesandShareholders™Equity
Interest-bearingliabilities

Interest-bearingdeposits
NOWaccounts
..................................................$923
1,287.148561,343.167531,145.15601850.145431,122.21
Savingsdeposits
.................................................36,73954,948.1533,39868,011.2030,40384,314.2826,19085,226.3322,832112,550.49
Timedeposits
...................................................4,04526,439.655,34746,102.866,48071,0141.106,583100,2411.528,782206,2202.35
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
..................................496
1,018.216051,130.19779962.129531,368.141,6652,391.14
Totalinterest-bearingdeposits
...................................42,20383,692.2040,206116,586.2938,415157,435.4134,327187,685.5533,822322,283.95
Short-termborrowings
.............................................390430.11839
1,286.158271,030.121,8543,006.162,9117,129.24
Long-termborrowings
..............................................4,941199,9834.055,527225,2974.086,959243,8663.509,169271,5782.9611,092340,0373.07
Totalinterest-bearingliabilities
...................................47,534284,105.6046,572343,169.7446,201402,331.8745,350462,2691.0247,825669,4491.40
Noninterest-bearingdeposits
........................................23,72121,76117,27313,70911,054
Otherliabilities
....................................................1,6851,9471,4991,2181,311
Totalliabilities
..................................................72,94070,28064,97360,27760,190
Shareholders™equity
...............................................10,7229,7039,0048,1037,282
Totalliabilitiesandshareholders™equity
.............................$83,66279,98373,97768,38067,472
Netinterestspread
.................................................3.433.483.483.593.21
Contributionofinterest-freefunds
.....................................22.25.25.25.28
Netinterestincome/marginonearningassets
...........................$2,698,2003.65%2,624,9073.73%2,415,6323.73%2,291,5493.84%2,077,5773.49%
(a)Includesnonaccrualloans.
(b)Includesavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesatamortizedcost.
48Table4summarizesaverageloansandleasesoutstandingin2013andpercentagechangesinthe
majorcomponentsoftheportfoliooverthepasttwoyears.
Table4
AVERAGELOANSANDLEASES
(Netofunearneddiscount)
PercentIncrease
(Decrease)from
20132012to2013
2011to2012
(Inmillions)
Commercial,financial,etc.
...................................$17,7369%11%
RealestateŠcommercial
...................................26,08359
RealestateŠconsumer
.....................................10,136443
ConsumerAutomobile.............................................2,162(16)(6)
Homeequitylines
........................................5,776(3)Š
Homeequityloans
.......................................410
(27)(22)
Other..................................................2,75038
Totalconsumer
........................................11,098(5)(1)
Total..................................................$65,0534%12%
Commercialloansandleases,excludingloanssecuredbyrealestate,aggregated$18.7billionat
December31,2013,representing29%oftotalloansandleases.Table5presentsinformationoncommercial

loansandleasesasofDecember31,2013relatingtogeographicarea,size,borrowerindustryandwhether

theloansaresecuredbycollateralorunsecured.Ofthe$18.7billionofcommercialloansandleases

outstandingattheendof2013,approximately$16.2billion,or86%,weresecured,while43%,26%and18%

weregrantedtobusinessesinNewYorkState,PennsylvaniaandtheMid-Atlanticarea(whichincludes

Maryland,Delaware,Virginia,WestVirginiaandtheDistrictofColumbia),respectively.TheCompany

providesfinancingforleasestocommercialcustomers,primarilyforequipment.Commercialleases

includedintotalcommercialloansandleasesatDecember31,2013aggregated$1.2billion,ofwhich51%

weresecuredbycollaterallocatedinNewYorkState,15%weresecuredbycollateralinPennsylvaniaand

another12%weresecuredbycollateralintheMid-Atlanticarea.
49Table5
COMMERCIALLOANSANDLEASES,NETOFUNEARNEDDISCOUNT
(ExcludesLoansSecuredbyRealEstate)
December31,2013
NewYork
PennsylvaniaMid-AtlanticOtherTotalPercentofTotal
(Dollarsinmillions)
Automobiledealerships
............$1,463$817$331$780$3,39118%
Manufacturing...................1,5209162884803,20417
Services.........................1,0887558033322,97816
Wholesale.......................900397365183
1,84510
Transportation,communications,
utilities.......................409404181236
1,2307
Realestateinvestors
...............598191195195
1,1796
Healthservices
...................48217932543
1,0295
Financialandinsurance
...........487189225339345
Construction....................356278191348595
Retail..........................19524392685983
Publicadministration
.............181994933322
Agriculture,forestry,fishing,
mining,etc.
...................331092811711
Other..........................405278237359555
Total...........................$8,117$4,855$3,310$2,423$18,705100%
Percentoftotal
...................43%26%18%13%
100%Percentofdollarsoutstanding
Secured.........................82%77%80%78%80%
Unsecured......................1019161114
Leases..........................844116
Total...........................100%100%100%100%100%
Percentofdollarsoutstandingbysize
ofloan
Lessthan$1million
...............25%18%29%11%22%
$1millionto$5million
............2223232423
$5millionto$10million
...........1618162217
$10millionto$20million
..........1622202319
$20millionto$30million
..........7125108
$30millionto$50million
..........104578
Greaterthan$50million
...........43233
Total...........................100%100%100%100%100%
50Internationalloansincludedincommercialloansandleasestotaled$170millionand$138millionat
December31,2013and2012,respectively.Includedinsuchloanswere$72millionand$128million,

respectively,ofloansatM&TBank™scommercialbranchinOntario,Canada.
Loanssecuredbyrealestate,includingoutstandingbalancesofhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit
whichtheCompanyclassifiesasconsumerloans,representedapproximately65%oftheloanandlease

portfolioduring2013and2011,comparedwith66%in2012.AtDecember31,2013,theCompanyheld

approximately$26.1billionofcommercialrealestateloans,$8.9billionofconsumerrealestateloans

securedbyone-to-fourfamilyresidentialproperties(including$401millionofloansoriginatedforsale)and

$6.1billionofoutstandingbalancesofhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,comparedwith$26.0billion,

$11.2billionand$6.3billion,respectively,atDecember31,2012.Includedintotalloansandleaseswere

amountsduefrombuildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestateaggregating$1.3billionand$1.2billion

atDecember31,2013and2012,respectively,substantiallyallofwhichwereclassifiedascommercialreal

estateloans.
CommercialrealestateloansoriginatedbytheCompanyincludefixed-rateinstrumentswith
monthlypaymentsandaballoonpaymentoftheremainingunpaidprincipalatmaturity,inmanycasesfive

yearsafterorigination.Forborrowersingoodstanding,thetermsofsuchloansmaybeextendedbythe

customerforanadditionalfiveyearsatthethen-currentmarketrateofinterest.TheCompanyalso

originatesfixed-ratecommercialrealestateloanswithmaturitiesofgreaterthanfiveyears,generallyhaving

originalmaturitytermsofapproximatelyseventotenyears,andadjustable-ratecommercialrealestate

loans.Adjustable-ratecommercialrealestateloansrepresentedapproximately63%ofthecommercialreal

estateloanportfolioatthe2013year-end.Table6presentscommercialrealestateloansbygeographicarea,

typeofcollateralandsizeoftheloansoutstandingatDecember31,2013.NewYorkCitymetropolitanarea

commercialrealestateloanstotaled$8.6billionatDecember31,2013.The$6.8billionofinvestor-owned

commercialrealestateloansintheNewYorkCitymetropolitanareawerelargelysecuredbymultifamily

residentialproperties,retailspace,andofficespace.TheCompany™sexperiencehasbeenthatoffice,retail

andservice-relatedpropertiestendtodemonstratemorevolatilefluctuationsinvaluethrougheconomic

cyclesandchangingeconomicconditionsthandomultifamilyresidentialproperties.Approximately48%of

theaggregatedollaramountofNewYorkCity-arealoanswereforloanswithoutstandingbalancesof$10

millionorless,whileloansofmorethan$50millionmadeupapproximately9%ofthetotal.
51Table6
COMMERCIALREALESTATELOANS,NETOFUNEARNEDDISCOUNT
December31,2013
MetropolitanNewYork
CityOtherNewYork
StatePennsylvaniaMid-AtlanticOtherTotalPercentof
Total(Dollarsinmillions)
Investor-ownedPermanentfinancebypropertytype
Retail.............................$1,681$492$405$829$630$4,03715%

Office.............................1,1726913857632833,29413

Apartments/Multifamily...............1,3304821594732972,74110

Hotel.............................6623662793493992,0558

Industrial/Warehouse.................2481641912901561,0494

Healthfacilities......................871616188324292

Other.............................163434668753952
Totalpermanent.................
5,3432,3991,5262,8601,87214,00054%
Construction/DevelopmentCommercialConstruction.....................5883753106812062,1608%

Land/Landdevelopment.............4192446146186532
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
Construction.....................4036421381537423

Land/Landdevelopment.............431973323775352
Totalconstruction/development......1,4534244711,2884544,09015%
Totalinvestor-owned......................6,7962,8231,9974,1482,32618,09069%
Owner-occupiedbyindustry(a)
Healthservices......................7914883594662582,3629%

Otherservices.......................285309258525421,4195

Retail.............................165185222353599844

Automobiledealerships................981811871291857803

Manufacturing......................120213169113326472

Wholesale..........................10161146128524882

Realestateinvestors...................12613065118154542

Other.............................124183250349189244
Totalowner-occupied
.............1,8101,7501,6562,1816618,05831%
Totalcommercialrealestate.................$8,606$4,573$3,653$6,329$2,987$26,148100%
Percentoftotal..........................33%18%14%24%11%100%
Percentofdollarsoutstandingbysizeofloan
Lessthan$1million.......................5%23%21%17%7%13%

$1millionto$5million....................243733302129

$5millionto$10million...................191817161618

$10millionto$30million...................322123232826

$30millionto$50million...................11169138

$50millionto$100million
..................9ŠŠ5115
Greaterthan$100million
...................ŠŠŠŠ41
Total.................................100%100%
100%100%100%100%
(a)Includes$316millionofconstructionloans.
52CommercialrealestateloanssecuredbypropertieslocatedinotherpartsofNewYorkState,
PennsylvaniaandtheMid-Atlanticareatendtohaveagreaterdiversityofcollateraltypesandincludea

significantamountoflendingtocustomerswhousethemortgagedpropertyintheirtradeorbusiness

(owner-occupied).Approximately78%oftheaggregatedollaramountofcommercialrealestateloansin

NewYorkStatesecuredbypropertieslocatedoutsideofthemetropolitanNewYorkCityareawereforloans

withoutstandingbalancesof$10millionorless.Oftheoutstandingbalancesofcommercialrealestateloans

inPennsylvaniaandtheMid-Atlanticarea,approximately71%and63%,respectively,wereforloanswith

outstandingbalancesof$10millionorless.
CommercialrealestateloanssecuredbypropertieslocatedoutsideofPennsylvania,theMid-Atlantic
area,NewYorkStateandareasofstatesneighboringNewYorkconsideredtobepartoftheNewYorkCity

metropolitanarea,comprised11%oftotalcommercialrealestateloansasofDecember31,2013.
Commercialrealestateconstructionanddevelopmentloansmadetoinvestorspresentedintable6
totaled$4.1billionatDecember31,2013,or6%oftota
lloansandleases.Approximately94%ofthose
constructionloanshadadjustableinterestrates.Includedinsuchloansatthe2013year-endwere$1.3billion

ofloanstodevelopersofresidentialrealestateproperties.Informationaboutthecreditperformanceofthe

Company™sloanstobuildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestatepropertiesisincludedhereinunderthe

headingﬁProvisionForCreditLosses.ﬂTheremainderofthecommercialrealestateconstructionloan

portfoliowascomprisedofloansmadeforvariouspurposes,includingtheconstructionofofficebuildings,

multifamilyresidentialhousing,retailspaceandothercommercialdevelopment.
M&TRealtyCapitalCorporation,acommercialrealestatelendingsubsidiaryofM&TBank,
participatesintheDelegatedUnderwritingandServicing(ﬁDUSﬂ)programoftheFederalNational

MortgageAssociation(ﬁFannieMaeﬂ),pursuanttowhichcommercialrealestateloansareoriginatedin

accordancewithtermsandconditionsspecifiedbyFannieMaeandsold.Underthisprogram,loansaresold

withpartialcreditrecoursetoM&TRealtyCapitalCorporation.Theamountofrecourseisgenerallylimited

toone-thirdofanycreditlossincurredbythepurchaseronanindividualloan,althoughinsomecasesthe

recourseamountislessthanone-thirdoftheoutstandingprincipalbalance.TheCompany™smaximum

creditriskforrecourseassociatedwithsoldcommercialrealestateloanswasapproximately$2.3billionand

$2.0billionatDecember31,2013and2012,respectively.Therehavebeennomateriallossesincurredasa

resultofthoserecoursearrangements.CommercialrealestateloansheldforsaleatDecember31,2013and

2012aggregated$68millionand$200million,respectively.AtDecember31,2013and2012,commercial

realestateloansservicedforotherinvestorsbytheCompanywere$11.4billionand$10.6billion,

respectively.ThoseservicedloansarenotincludedintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheet.
Realestateloanssecuredbyone-to-fourfamilyresidentialpropertieswere$8.9billionat
December31,2013,includingapproximately41%securedbypropertieslocatedinNewYorkState,14%

securedbypropertieslocatedinPennsylvaniaand25%securedbypropertieslocatedintheMid-Atlantic

area.AtDecember31,2013,$401millionofresidentialrealestateloanshadbeenoriginatedforsale,

comparedwith$1.2billionatDecember31,2012.Thesignificantdecreaseinresidentialrealestateloans

heldforsaleatDecember31,2013ascomparedwithDecember31,2012reflecteddecreasedvolumesof

suchloanoriginations.TheCompany™sportfolioofalternative(ﬁAlt-Aﬂ)residentialrealestateloansheldfor

investmentatDecember31,2013declinedto$396millionfrom$462millionatDecember31,2012.Alt-A

loansrepresentloansthatatoriginationtypicallyincludedsomeformoflimitedborrowerdocumentation

requirementsascomparedwithmoretraditionalresidentialrealestateloans.LoansintheCompany™sAlt-A

portfoliowereoriginatedbytheCompanypriorto2008.Loanstoindividualstofinancetheconstructionof

one-to-fourfamilyresidentialpropertiestotaled$34millionatDecember31,2013and$39millionat

December31,2012,orapproximately.1%oftotalloansandleasesateachofthosedates.Informationabout

thecreditperformanceoftheCompany™sAlt-Aloansandotherresidentialrealestateloansisincluded

hereinundertheheadingﬁProvisionForCreditLosses.ﬂ
Consumerloanscomprisedapproximately16%and17%oftotalloansandleasesatDecember31,
2013and2012,respectively.Outstandingbalancesofhomeequitylinesofcreditrepresentthelargest

componentoftheconsumerloanportfolio.Suchbalancesrepresentedapproximately9%oftotalloansand

leasesateachofDecember31,2013and2012.Nootherconsumerloanproductrepresentedatleast4%of

loansoutstandingatDecember31,2013.Approximately41%ofhomeequitylinesofcreditoutstandingat

December31,2013weresecuredbypropertiesinNewYorkState,and21%and36%weresecuredby

propertiesinPennsylvaniaandtheMid-Atlanticarea,respectively.Outstandingautomobileloanbalances

decreasedto$1.4billionatDecember31,2013from$2.5billionatDecember31,2012.Thatdeclineresulted

fromthesecuritizationandsaleof$1.4billionofsuchloansneartheendofthethirdquarterof2013.
53Table7presentsthecompositionoftheCompany™sloanandleaseportfolioattheendof2013,
includingoutstandingbalancestobusinessesandconsumersinNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,theMid-

Atlanticareaandotherstates.Approximately45%oftotalloansandleasesatDecember31,2013wereto

NewYorkStatecustomers,while18%and23%weretoPennsylvaniaandtheMid-Atlanticareacustomers,

respectively.Table7
LOANSANDLEASES,NETOFUNEARNEDDISCOUNT
December31,2013
PercentofDollarsOutstanding
OutstandingsNewYork
StatePennsylvaniaMid-AtlanticOther(Inmillions)
Realestate
Residential.............................$
8,92841%14%25%20%
Commercial...........................26,14851(a)142411
Totalrealestate
.......................35,07648%14%24%14%
Commercial,financial,etc.
..................17,46743%27%18%12%
ConsumerHomeequitylines
.......................5,77041%21%36%2%
Homeequityloans
......................3521330516
Automobile............................1,36530232225
Othersecuredorguaranteed
..............2,10427141742
Otherunsecured
........................7014022344
Totalconsumer
.......................10,29236%20%31%13%
Totalloans
........................62,83545%18%24%13%
Commercialleases
........................1,23850%15%12%23%
Totalloansandleases
................$64,07345%18%23%14%
(a)Includesloanssecuredbypropertieslocatedinneighboringstatesgenerallyconsideredtobewithincommuting
distanceofNewYorkCity.
Averagebalancesofinvestmentsecuritieswere$6.6billionin2013,comparedwith$7.0billionand
$7.1billionin2012and2011,respectively.Thedeclineinsuchbalancesin2013reflectstheimpactof

maturitiesandpaydownsofmortgage-backedsecurities,offsetbytheneteffectofpurchases,salesand

securitizationsduring2013.Beginninginthesecondquarterof2013,theCompanyundertookcertain

actionstoimproveitsregulatorycapitalandliquiditypositionsinresponsetoevolvingregulatory

requirements.Asaresult,inthesecondquarterof2013approximately$1.0billionofprivatelyissued

mortgage-backedsecuritiesheldintheavailable-for-saleportfolioweresold,asweretheCompany™s

holdingsofVisaandMasterCardcommonstock.Inthesecondandthirdquartersof2013,theCompany

securitizedapproximately$1.3billionofresidentialrealestateloansheldinitsloanportfolioguaranteedby

theFederalHousingAuthority(ﬁFHAﬂ).AsubstantialmajorityoftheGinnieMaesecuritiesresultingfrom

thosesecuritizationswereretainedbytheCompany.Duringthesecondquarterof2013,theCompanyalso

beganoriginatingFHAresidentialrealestateloansforpurposesofsecuritizingsuchloansintoGinnieMae

mortgage-backedsecuritiestoberetainedintheCompany™sinvestmentsecuritiesportfolio.Approximately

$1.6billionofsuchloanswereoriginatedandsecuritizedduring2013.Finally,theCompanypurchased

approximately$1.9billionofGinnieMaesecuritiesand$250millionofFannieMaesecuritiesthatwere

addedtotheinvestmentsecuritiesportfolioduring2013.Theslightdeclineinaveragebalancesof

investmentsecuritiesin2012ascomparedwith2011reflectstheimpactofmaturitiesandpaydownsof
54mortgage-backedsecurities,partiallyoffsetbypurchasesof$250millionofresidentialmortgage-backed
securitiesguaranteedbytheFederalHomeLoanMortgageCorporation(ﬁFreddieMacﬂ)duringthesecond

quarterof2012andthefull-yearimpactofpurchasesofresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritiesguaranteed

byFannieMae,FreddieMacandtheGinnieMaeduring2011.
Theinvestmentsecuritiesportfolioislargelycomprisedofresidentialmortgage-backedsecurities,
debtsecuritiesissuedbymunicipalities,trustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbycertainfinancialinstitutions,and

shorter-termU.S.Treasuryandfederalagencynotes.Whenpurchasinginvestmentsecurities,theCompany

considersitsoverallinterest-rateriskandliquidityprofilesaswellastheadequacyofexpectedreturns

relativetorisksassumed,includingprepayments.Inmanagingitsinvestmentsecuritiesportfolio,the

Companyoccasionallysellsinvestmentsecuritiesasaresultofchangesininterestratesandspreads,actual

oranticipatedprepayments,creditriskassociatedwithaparticularsecurity,orasaresultofrestructuringits

investmentsecuritiesportfolioinconnectionwithabusinesscombination.Asnotedabove,in2013the

Companysoldinvestmentsecuritiestoreduceitsexposuretohigherrisksecuritiesinresponsetochanging

regulatorycapitalandliquiditystandards.
TheCompanyregularlyreviewsitsinvestmentsecuritiesfordeclinesinvaluebelowamortizedcost
thatmightbecharacterizedasﬁotherthantemporary.ﬂPre-taxother-than-temporaryimpairmentcharges

of$10million,$48millionand$77millionwererecognizedduring2013,2012and2011,respectively,

relatedtocertainprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesbackedbyresidentialandcommercialreal

estateloans.Persistentlyhighunemployment,loandelinquenciesandforeclosuresthatledtoabacklogof

homesheldforsalebyfinancialinstitutionsandothersweresignificantfactorscontributingtothe

recognitionoftheother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesrelatedtothemortgage-backedsecurities.As

notedearlier,substantiallyalloftheprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesheldintheavailable-for-sale

portfolioweresoldinthesecondquarterof2013.Theimpairmentchargesrecognizedduringthepastthree

yearspredominantlyrelatedtoasubsetofthosesoldsecurities.Basedonmanagement™sassessmentoffuture

cashflowsassociatedwithindividualinvestmentsecuritiesasofDecember31,2013,theCompany

concludedthattheremainingdeclinesassociatedwiththerestoftheinvestmentsecuritiesportfoliowere

temporaryinnature.Afurtherdiscussionoffairvaluesofinvestmentsecuritiesisincludedhereinunderthe

headingﬁCapital.ﬂAdditionalinformationabouttheinvestmentsecuritiesportfolioisincludedinnotes3

and20ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Otherearningassetsincludeinterest-bearingdepositsattheFederalReserveBankandotherbanks,
tradingaccountassets,federalfundssoldandagreements
toresellsecurities.Thoseotherearningassetsinthe
aggregateaveraged$2.3billionin2013,$628millionin2012and$1.5billionin2011.Interest-bearingdeposits

atbanksaveraged$2.1billionin2013,comparedwith$528millionand$1.2billionin2012and2011,

respectively.ThosebalanceswerepredominantlyduetodepositsattheFederalReserveBank,resultinglargely

fromWilmingtonTrust-relatedcustomerdeposits.Theamountsofinvestmentsecuritiesandotherearning

assetsheldbytheCompanyareinfluencedbysuchfactorsasdemandforloans,whichgenerallyyieldmore

thaninvestmentsecuritiesandotherearningassets,ongoingrepayments,thelevelsofdeposits,and

managementofliquidityandbalancesheetsizeandresultingcapitalratios.
ThemostsignificantsourceoffundingfortheCompanyiscoredeposits.TheCompanyconsiders
noninterest-bearingdeposits,interest-bearingtransactionaccounts,savingsdepositsandtimedepositsof

$250,000orlessascoredeposits.TheCompany™sbranchnetworkisitsprincipalsourceofcoredeposits,

whichgenerallycarrylowerinterestratesthanwholesalefundsofcomparablematurities.Averagecore

depositstotaled$63.8billionin2013,upfrom$59.1billionin2012and$52.0billionin2011.The

WilmingtonTrustacquisitionaddedapproximately$6.6billionofcoredepositsonMay16,2011.Average

coredepositsofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.,includingbothnoninterest-bearingtrustdepositsandcertificates

ofdepositof$250,000orlessgeneratedonanationwidebasis,were$1.4billionin2013,$1.2billionin2012

and$630millionin2011.ExcludingtheimpactofthedepositsobtainedintheWilmingtonTrust

acquisition,thegrowthincoredepositsfrom2011to2013wasdue,inpart,tothelackofattractive

alternativeinvestmentsavailabletotheCompany™scustomersresultingfromlowerinterestratesandfrom

theeconomicenvironmentintheU.S.andhigherbalancesheldonbehalfoftrustcustomers.Thelow

interestrateenvironmenthasresultedinashiftincustomersavingstrends,asaveragetimedepositshave

continuedtodecline,whileaveragenoninterest-bearingdepositsandsavingsdepositshavegenerally

increased.Fundingprovidedbycoredepositsrepresented86%ofaverageearningassetsin2013,compared

with84%and80%in2012and2011,respectively.Table8summarizesaveragecoredepositsin2013and

percentagechangesinthecomponentsofsuchdepositsoverthepasttwoyears.Coredepositsaggregated

$65.4billionand$62.7billionatDecember31,2013and2012,respectively.
55Table8
AVERAGECOREDEPOSITS
PercentageIncrease
(Decrease)from
20132012to2013
2011to2012
(Inmillions)
NOWaccounts
............................................$8998%15%
Savingsdeposits
...........................................35,7111011
Timedeposits
.............................................3,441(18)(14)
Noninterest-bearingdeposits
.................................23,721926
Total..................................................$63,7728%14%
AdditionalfundingsourcesfortheCompanyincludedbranch-relatedtimedepositsover$250,000,
depositsassociatedwiththeCompany™sCaymanIslandsoffice,andbrokereddeposits.Timedepositsover

$250,000,excludingbrokeredcertificatesofdeposit,averaged$325millionin2013,$410millionin2012

and$491millionin2011.CaymanIslandsofficedepositsaveraged$496millionin2013,$605millionin

2012and$779millionin2011.Averagebrokeredtimedepositstotaled$279millionin2013,comparedwith

$741millionin2012and$1.1billionin2011,andatDecember31,2013and2012totaled$26millionand

$462million,respectively.BrokeredtimedepositsobtainedintheacquisitionofWilmingtonTrusttotaled

$1.4billionasofMay16,2011.TheCompanyalsohadbrokeredNOWandbrokeredmoney-marketdeposit

accounts,whichintheaggregateaveraged$1.1billionineachof2013and2012and$1.3billionin2011.The

levelsofbrokeredNOWandbrokeredmoney-marketdepositaccountsreflectthedemandforsuchdeposits,

largelyresultingfromthedesireofbrokeragefirmstoearnreasonableyieldswhileensuringthatcustomer

depositsarefullyinsured.ThelevelofCaymanIslandsofficedepositsandbrokereddepositsarealso

reflectiveofcustomerdemand.Additionalamountsofsuchdepositsmaybeaddedinthefuturedepending

onmarketconditions,includingdemandbycustomersandotherinvestorsforthosedeposits,andthecost

offundsavailablefromalternativesourcesatthetime.
TheCompanyalsousesborrowingsfrombanks,securitiesdealers,variousFederalHomeLoanBanks
(ﬁFHLBsﬂ),theFederalReserveBankandothersassourcesoffunding.Averageshort-termborrowings

totaled$390millionin2013,$839millionin2012and$827millionin2011.Includedinshort-term

borrowingswereunsecuredfederalfundsborrowings,whichgenerallymatureonthenextbusinessday,that

averaged$284million,$669millionand$593millionin2013,2012and2011,respectively.Overnight

federalfundsborrowingsrepresentedthelargestcomponentofaverageshort-termborrowingsandtotaled

$169millionatDecember31,2013and$939millionatDecember31,2012.
Long-termborrowingsaveraged$4.9billionin2013,$5.5billionin2012and$7.0billionin2011.
Includedinaveragelong-termborrowingswereamountsborrowedfromFHLBsof$30millionin2013,

$768millionin2012and$1.9billionin2011,andsubordinatedcapitalnotesof$1.6billionin2013and

$2.0billionineachof2012and2011.OnApril15,2013,$250millionof4.875%subordinatednotesofthe

Companymaturedandwereredeemed.OnJuly2,2012,M&TBankredeemed$400millionofsubordinated

capitalnotesthatwereduetomaturein2013,assuchnotesceasedtoqualifyasregulatorycapitalduringthe

one-yearperiodbeforetheircontractualmaturitydate.Juniorsubordinateddebenturesassociatedwithtrust

preferredsecuritiesthatwereincludedinaveragelong-termborrowingswere$1.2billionineachof2013,

2012and2011.However,M&Texpectstoredeem$350millionof8.50%juniorsubordinateddebentures

associatedwithtrustpreferredsecuritiesinthefirstquarterof2014.Additionalinformationregarding

juniorsubordinateddebentures,aswellasinformationregardingcontractualmaturitiesoflong-term

borrowings,isprovidedinnote9ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Alsoincludedinlong-termborrowings

wereagreementstorepurchasesecurities,whichaveraged$1.4billionduringeachof2013and2012,and

$1.5billionduring2011.Theagreementshavevariousrepurchasedatesthrough2017,however,the

contractualmaturitiesoftheunderlyingsecuritiesextendbeyondsuchrepurchasedates.Duringthefirst

quarterof2013,M&TBankinitiatedaBankNoteProgramwherebyM&TBankmayofferupto$5billion

ofunsecuredseniorandsubordinatednotes.DuringMarch2013,three-yearfloatingrateseniornotesdue

March2016wereissuedfor$300millionandfive-year1.45%fixedrateseniornotesdueMarch2018were

issuedfor$500million.Averagebalancesofthoseseniornotesin2013were$657million.DuringJanuary

2014,M&TBankissuedanadditional$1.5billionofseniornotesofwhich$750millionareduein2017and
56$750millionareduein2019.TheCompanyhasutilizedinterestrateswapagreementstomodifythe
repricingcharacteristicsofcertaincomponentsoflong-termdebt.AsofDecember31,2013,interestrate

swapagreementswereusedtohedgeapproximately$900millionoffixedratesubordinatednotesand$500

millionoffixedrateseniornotes.Furtherinformationoninterestrateswapagreementsisprovidedinnote

18ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
ChangesinthecompositionoftheCompany™searningassetsandinterest-bearingliabilities,as
discussedherein,aswellaschangesininterestratesandspreads,canimpactnetinterestincome.Netinterest

spread,orthedifferencebetweenthetaxable-equivalentyieldonearningassetsandtheratepaidoninterest-

bearingliabilities,was3.43%in2013,comparedwith3.48%ineachof2012and2011.Theyieldonthe

Company™searningassetsdeclined19basispointsto4.03%in2013from4.22%in2012,whiletheratepaid

oninterest-bearingliabilitiesdecreased14basispointsto.60%in2013from.74%in2012.Theyieldon

earningassetsduring2012decreased13basispointsfrom4.35%in2011,whiletheratepaidoninterest-

bearingliabilitiesalsodeclined13basispointsfrom.87%in2011.Thedeclinesinyieldsonearningassets

andratesoninterest-bearingliabilitiesreflecttheimpactofactionstakenbytheFederalReservetomaintain

thetargetrangeforthefederalfundsrateof0%to.25%andtocontrolthelevelofinterestratesingeneral.
Netinterest-freefundsconsistlargelyofnoninterest-bearingdemanddepositsandshareholders™
equity,partiallyoffsetbybankownedlifeinsuranceandnon-earningassets,includinggoodwillandcore

depositandotherintangibleassets.Netinterest-freefundsaveraged$26.5billionin2013,comparedwith

$23.7billionin2012and$18.5billionin2011.Thesignificantincreasesinaveragenetinterest-freefundsin

2013and2012werelargelytheresultofhigherbalancesofnoninterest-bearingdeposits,whichaveraged

$23.7billionin2013,$21.8billionin2012and$17.3billionin2011.InconnectionwiththeWilmington

Trustacquisition,theCompanyaddednoninterest-bearingdepositstotaling$2.0billionattheacquisition

date.Goodwillandcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsaveraged$3.6billionin2013and$3.7billionin

eachof2012and2011.Thecashsurrendervalueofbankownedlifeinsuranceaveraged$1.6billionineach

of2013and2012,and$1.5billionin2011.Increasesinthecashsurrendervalueofbankownedlife

insurancearenotincludedininterestincome,butratherarerecordedinﬁotherrevenuesfromoperations.ﬂ

Thecontributionofnetinterest-freefundstonetinterestmarginwas.22%in2013and.25%ineachof2012

and2011.
Reflectingthechangestothenetinterestspreadandthecontributionofnetinterest-freefundsas
describedherein,theCompany™snetinterestmarginwas3.65%in2013and3.73%ineachof2012and

2011.Futurechangesinmarketinterestratesorspreads,aswellaschangesinthecompositionofthe

Company™sportfoliosofearningassetsandinterest-bearingliabilitiesthatresultinreductionsinspreads,

couldadverselyimpacttheCompany™snetinterestincomeandnetinterestmargin.Inparticular,the

relativelylowinterestrateenvironmentcontinuestoexertdownwardpressureonyieldsonloans,

investmentsecuritiesandotherearningassets.
Managementassessesthepotentialimpactoffuturechangesininterestratesandspreadsby
projectingnetinterestincomeunderseveralinterestratescenarios.Inmanaginginterestraterisk,the

Companyhasutilizedinterestrateswapagreementstomodifytherepricingcharacteristicsofcertain

portionsofitsportfoliosofearningassetsandinterest-bearingliabilities.Periodicsettlementamounts

arisingfromtheseagreementsaregenerallyreflectedineithertheyieldsearnedonassetsortheratespaidon

interest-bearingliabilities.Thenotionalamountofinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintoforinterest

rateriskmanagementpurposeswas$1.4billionand$900millionatDecember31,2013and2012,

respectively.Underthetermsofthoseswapagreements,theCompanyreceivedpaymentsbasedonthe

outstandingnotionalamountoftheagreementsatfixedratesandmadepaymentsatvariablerates.Those

swapagreementsweredesignatedasfairvaluehedgesofcertainfixedratelong-termborrowings.Therewere

nointerestrateswapagreementsdesignatedascashflowhedgesatthoserespectivedates.
Inafairvaluehedge,thefairvalueofthederivative(theinterestrateswapagreement)andchangesin
thefairvalueofthehedgeditemarerecordedintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheetwiththe

correspondinggainorlossrecognizedincurrentearnings.Thedifferencebetweenchangesinthefairvalue

oftheinterestrateswapagreementsandthehedgeditemsrepresentshedgeineffectivenessandisrecordedin

ﬁotherrevenuesfromoperationsﬂintheCompany™sconsolidatedstatementofincome.Theamountsof

hedgeineffectivenessrecognizedin2013,2012and2011werenotmaterialtotheCompany™sresultsof

operations.Theestimatedaggregatefairvalueofinterestrateswapagreementsdesignatedasfairvalue

hedgesrepresentedgainsofapproximately$103millionatDecember31,2013and$143millionat

December31,2012.Thefairvaluesofsuchswapagreementsweresubstantiallyoffsetbychangesinthefair

valuesofthehedgeditems.Thechangesinthefairvaluesoftheinterestrateswapagreementsandthe
57hedgeditemsprimarilyresultfromtheeffectsofchanginginterestratesandspreads.TheCompany™scredit
exposureasofDecember31,2013withrespecttotheestimatedfairvalueofinterestrateswapagreements

usedformanaginginterestrateriskhasbeensubstantiallymitigatedthroughmasternettingarrangements

withtradingaccountinterestratecontractswiththesamecounterpartyaswellascounterpartypostingsof

$85millionofcollateralwiththeCompany.Additionalinformationaboutswapagreementsandtheitems

beinghedgedisincludedinnote18ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Theaveragenotionalamountsof

interestrateswapagreementsenteredintoforinterestrateriskmanagementpurposes,therelatedeffecton

netinterestincomeandmargin,andtheweighted-averageinterestratespaidorreceivedonthoseswap

agreementsarepresentedintable9.
Table9
INTERESTRATESWAPAGREEMENTS
YearEndedDecember31
201320122011AmountRate(a)AmountRate(a)AmountRate(a)(Dollarsinthousands)
Increase(decrease)in:
Interestincome
...................$ŠŠ%$ŠŠ%$ŠŠ%
Interestexpense
...................(41,326)(.09)(36,368)(.08)(37,709)(.08)
Netinterestincome/margin
.........$
41,326.06%$36,368.05%$37,709.06%
Averagenotionalamount
.............$1,160,274$900,000$900,000
Ratereceived(b)
.....................5.03%6.07%6.07%
Ratepaid(b)
........................1.47%2.03%1.88%
(a)Computedasapercentageofaverageearningassetsorinterest-bearingliabilities.
(b)Weighted-averageratepaidorreceivedoninterestrateswapagreementsineffectduringyear.
ProvisionforCreditLosses
TheCompanymaintainsanallowanceforcreditlossesthatinmanagement™sjudgmentappropriately

reflectslossesinherentintheloanandleaseportfolio.Aprovisionforcreditlossesisrecordedtoadjustthe

leveloftheallowanceasdeemednecessarybymanagement.Theprovisionforcreditlosseswas$185million

in2013,comparedwith$204millionin2012and$270millionin2011.Netloancharge-offsaggregated

$183millionin2013,$186millionin2012and$265millionin2011.Netloancharge-offsasapercentageof

averageloansoutstandingwere.28%in2013,comparedwith.30%in2012and.47%in2011.Whilethe

Companyhasexperiencedimprovementinitscreditqualitymetricsduringthepastfewyears,sluggish

economicactivity,relativelyhighunemploymentrates,generallydepressedrealestatevaluationsandhigher

thannormallevelsofdelinquencieshavesignificantlyaffectedthecreditperformanceoftheCompany™sloan

portfolios.AsummaryoftheCompany™sloancharge-offs,provisionandallowanceforcreditlossesis

presentedintable10andinnote5ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
58Table10
LOANCHARGE-OFFS,PROVISIONANDALLOWANCEFORCREDITLOSSES
20132012201120102009(Dollarsinthousands)
Allowanceforcreditlossesbeginning
balance..............................$925,860$908,290$902,941$878,022$787,904
Charge-offsduringyear
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
.......109,32941,14855,02191,650180,119
RealestateŠconstruction
..............9,13727,68763,52986,603127,728
RealestateŠmortgage
.................49,07958,57281,691108,50095,109
Consumer...........................85,965103,348109,246125,593153,506
Totalcharge-offs
....................253,510230,755309,487412,346556,462
Recoveriesduringyear
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
.......11,77311,37510,22426,6217,999
RealestateŠconstruction
..............18,8003,6935,9304,9752,623
RealestateŠmortgage
.................13,7188,84710,44410,9546,917
Consumer...........................26,03520,41018,23823,96325,041
Totalrecoveries
.....................70,32644,32544,83666,51342,580
Netcharge-offs
.........................183,184186,430264,651345,833513,882
Provisionforcreditlosses
.................185,000204,000270,000368,000604,000
Allowancerelatedtoloanssoldor
securitized...........................(11,000)ŠŠŠŠConsolidationofloansecuritizationtrusts...ŠŠŠ2,752Š
Allowanceforcreditlossesendingbalance...$916,676$925,860$908,290$902,941$878,022
Netcharge-offsasapercentof:
Provisionforcreditlosses
...............99.02%91.39%98.02%93.98%85.08%
Averageloansandleases,netofunearned
discount............................28%.30%.47%.67%1.01%
Allowanceforcreditlossesasapercentof
loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount,

atyear-end
...........................1.43%1.39%1.51%1.74%1.69%
Loansacquiredinconnectionwithacquisitiontransactionssubsequentto2008wererecordedatfair
valuewithnocarry-overofanypreviouslyrecordedallowanceforcreditlosses.Determiningthefairvalueof

theacquiredloansrequiredestimatingcashflowsexpectedtobecollectedontheloansanddiscounting

thosecashflowsatthen-currentinterestrates.Theexcessofexpectedcashflowsoverthecarryingvalueof

theloansisrecognizedasinterestincomeoverthelivesoftheloans.Thedifferencebetweencontractually

requiredpaymentsandthecashflowsexpectedtobecollectedisreferredtoasthenonaccretablebalance

andisnotrecordedontheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Thenonaccretablebalancereflectsestimatedfuture

creditlossesandothercontractuallyrequiredpaymentsthattheCompanydoesnotexpecttocollect.The

Companyregularlyevaluatesthereasonablenessofitscashflowprojections.Anydecreasestotheexpected

cashflowsrequiretheCompanytoevaluatetheneedforanadditionalallowanceforcreditlossesandcould

leadtocharge-offsofacquiredloanbalances.Anysignificantincreasesinexpectedcashflowsresultin

additionalinterestincometoberecognizedoverthethen-remaininglivesoftheloans.Thecarryingamount

ofloansobtainedinacquisitionssubsequentto2008was$4.0billionand$5.8billionatDecember31,2013

and2012,respectively.Theportionofthenonaccretablebalancerelatedtoremainingprincipallossesaswell

aslife-to-dateprincipallosseschargedagainstthenonaccretablebalanceasofDecember31,2013and2012

arepresentedintable11.TheCompanyregularlyreviewsitscashflowprojectionsforacquiredloans,

includingitsestimatesoflifetimeprincipallosses.During2013,basedonstabilizingeconomicconditions
59theCompany™sestimatesofcashflowsexpectedtobegeneratedbyacquiredloansincreasedby$179million,
orapproximately3%.Thatimprovementreflectedaloweringofestimatedprincipallossesbyapproximately

$173million,primarilyduetoa$160milliondecreaseinexpectedprincipallossesintheacquired

commercialrealestateportfolios.Theincreaseinprojectedcashflows,includingboththe$173millionof

principalreferredtoaboveandinterestpaymentsrelatedthereto,resultedina$181milliontransferfrom

thenonaccretablebalancetotheaccretableyield.Similarly,in2012theestimatesofcashflowsexpectedto

begeneratedbyacquiredloansincreasedbyapproximately2%,or$178million.Thatimprovementalso

reflectedaloweringofestimatedprincipallossesthatamountedtoapproximately$175million,largely

drivenbya$132milliondecreaseinexpectedprincipallossesintheacquiredcommercialrealestate

portfolios.Includingboththe$175millionofprincipalreferredtoaboveandinterestpaymentsrelated

thereto,theincreasesinprojectedcashflowsresultedina$200milliontransferfromthenonaccretable

balancetotheaccretableyield.Intheaggregate,approximately$109millionand$45millionofthose

transferswererecognizedasinterestincomein2013and2012,respectively.Theremainderwillbe

recognizedasinterestincomeinsubsequentyears.
Table11
NONACCRETABLEBALANCEŠPRINCIPAL
RemainingBalance
Life-to-dateCharges
December31,
2013December31,
2012December31,
2013December31,
2012(Inthousands)
Commercial,financing,leasing,etc.
.............$
31,931$40,198$69,772$63,190
Commercialrealestate
........................110,984285,681277,222262,062
Residentialrealestate
.........................23,20136,47154,17746,842
Consumer..................................33,98950,85674,03963,132
Total.....................................$200,105$413,206$475,210$435,226
Nonaccrualloanstotaled$874millionor1.36%ofoutstandingloansandleasesatDecember31,
2013,comparedwith$1.01billionor1.52%atDecember31,2012and$1.10billionor1.83%at

December31,2011.Thedeclineinnonaccrualloansattheendof2013ascomparedwithDecember31,

2012and2011waslargelyduetolowercommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloansonnonaccrual

status.SinceDecember31,2011,additionstononaccrualloansweremorethanoffsetbytheimpactonsuch

loansfrompaymentsreceivedandcharge-offs.Nevertheless,conditionsintheU.S.economyhave

continuedtoresultingenerallyhigherlevelsofnonaccrualloansthanhistoricallyexperiencedbythe

Company.Accruingloanspastdue90daysormore(excludingacquiredloans)totaled$369millionor.58%of
totalloansandleasesatDecember31,2013,comparedwith$358millionor.54%atDecember31,2012and

$288millionor.48%atDecember31,2011.Thoseloansincludedloansguaranteedbygovernment-related

entitiesof$298million,$316millionand$253millionatDecember31,2013,2012and2011,respectively.

Suchguaranteedloansincludedone-to-fourfamilyresidentialmortgageloansservicedbytheCompanythat

wererepurchasedtoreduceservicingcosts,includingarequirementtoadvanceprincipalandinterest

paymentsthathadnotbeenreceivedfromindividualmortgagors.Despitetheloansbeingpurchasedbythe

Company,theinsuranceorguaranteebytheapplicablegovernment-relatedentityremainsinforce.The

outstandingprincipalbalancesoftherepurchasedloansthatareguaranteedbygovernment-relatedentities

aggregated$255millionatDecember31,2013,$294millionatDecember31,2012and$241millionat

December31,2011.Theremainingloansinthisclassificationwereloansconsideredtobewithcreditworthy

borrowersthatwereintheprocessofcollectionorrenewal.Asummaryofnonperformingassetsandcertain

pastdue,renegotiatedandimpairedloandataandcreditqualityratiosispresentedintable12.
60Table12
NONPERFORMINGASSETANDPASTDUE,RENEGOTIATEDANDIMPAIREDLOANDATA
December31
20132012201120102009(Dollarsinthousands)
Nonaccrualloans
............................$
874,156$1,013,176$1,097,
581$1,139,740$1,255,552
Realestateandotherforeclosedassets.............66,875
104,279156,592220,04994,604
Totalnonperformingassets....................$
941,031$1,117,455$1,254,
173$1,359,789$1,350,156
Accruingloanspastdue90daysormore(a)........$
368,510$358,397$287,876$250,705$205,172
Governmentguaranteedloansincludedintotalsabove:
Nonaccrualloans
..........................$63,647$57,420$40,529$39,883$37,658
Accruingloanspastdue90daysormore........
297,918316,403252,503207,243193,495
Renegotiatedloans...........................$
257,092$271,971$214,379$233,342$212,548
Acquiredaccruingloanspastdue90daysor
more(b).................................$
130,162$166,554$163,738$91,022$55,638
Purchasedimpairedloans(c):
Outstandingcustomerbalance................$
579,975$828,571$1,267,762$219,477$172,772
Carryingamount..........................
330,792447,114653,36297,01988,170
Nonaccrualloanstototalloansandleases,netof
unearneddiscount.........................1.36%1.52%1.83%2.19%2.42%
Nonperformingassetstototalnetloansandleasesand
realestateandotherforeclosedassets...........1.47%1.68%2.08%2.60%2.59%
Accruingloanspastdue90daysormore(a)tototal
loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount........58%.54%.48%.48%.40%
(a)Excludesacquiredloans.Predominantlyresidentialmortgageloans.
(b)Acquiredloansthatwererecordedatfairvalueatacquisitiondate.Thiscategorydoesnotincludepurchased
impairedloansthatarepresentedseparately.
(c)Accruingloansthatwereimpairedatacquisitiondateandrecordedatfairvalue.
Purchasedimpairedloansareloansobtainedinacquisitiontransactionssubsequentto2008thatas
oftheacquisitiondatewerespecificallyidentifiedasdisplayingsignsofcreditdeteriorationandforwhich

theCompanydidnotexpecttocollectalloutstandingprincipalandcontractuallyrequiredinterest

payments.Thoseloanswereimpairedatthedateofacquisition,wererecordedatestimatedfairvalueand

weregenerallydelinquentinpayments,but,inaccordancewithGAAP,theCompanycontinuestoaccrue

interestincomeonsuchloansbasedontheestimatedexpectedcashflowsassociatedwiththeloans.The

carryingamountofsuchloanswas$331millionatDecember31,2013,or.5%oftotalloans.Purchased

impairedloanstotaled$447millionatDecember31,2012.Thedeclineinsuchloansduring2013was

predominantlytheresultofpaymentsreceivedfromcustomers.
Acquiredaccruingloanspastdue90daysormoreareloansthatcouldnotbespecificallyidentifiedas
impairedasoftheacquisitiondate,butwererecordedatestimatedfairvalueasofsuchdate.Suchloans

totaled$130millionatDecember31,2013and$167millionatDecember31,2012.
Inanefforttoassistborrowers,theCompanymodifiedthetermsofselectloans.Iftheborrowerwas
experiencingfinancialdifficultyandaconcessionwasgranted,theCompanyconsideredsuchmodifications

astroubleddebtrestructurings.Loanmodificationsincludedsuchactionsastheextensionofloanmaturity

datesandtheloweringofinterestratesandmonthlypayments.Theobjectiveofthemodificationswasto

increaseloanrepaymentsbycustomersandtherebyreducenetcharge-offs.InaccordancewithGAAP,the

modifiedloansareincludedinimpairedloansforpurposesofdeterminingtheleveloftheallowancefor

creditlosses.Informationaboutmodificationsofloansthatareconsideredtroubleddebtrestructuringsis

includedinnote4ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
61Residentialrealestateloansmodifiedunderspecifiedlossmitigationprogramsprescribedby
governmentguarantorshavenotbeenincludedinrenegotiatedloansbecausetheloanguaranteeremainsin

fullforceand,accordingly,theCompanyhasnotgrantedaconcessionwithrespecttotheultimate

collectionoftheoriginalloanbalance.Suchloanstotaled$206millionand$167millionatDecember31,

2013andDecember31,2012,respectively.
Netcharge-offsofcommercialloansandleaseswere$98millionin2013,$30millionin2012and
$45millionin2011.Reflectedinnetcharge-offsofcommercialloansandleasesin2013were$49millionof

charge-offsforarelationshipwithamotorvehicle-relatedpartswholesaler.Commercialloansandleasesin

nonaccrualstatusaggregated$111millionatDecember31,2013,$152millionatDecember31,2012and

$164millionatDecember31,2011.
Charge-offsofcommercialrealestateloans,netofrecoveries,during2013,2012and2011totaled
$12million,$36millionand$77million,respectively.Reflectedinsuchcharge-offsin2013werenet

recoveriesof$12millionofloanstoresidentialrealestatebuildersanddevelopers,comparedwithnet

charge-offsof$23millionand$55millionin2012and2011,respectively.Commercialrealestateloans

classifiedasnonaccrualaggregated$305millionatDecember31,2013,comparedwith$412millionat

December31,2012and$559millionatDecember31,2011.ThedecreaseinsuchloansfromDecember31,

2012toDecember31,2013wasduetolowernonaccrualloanstoresidentialhomebuildersanddevelopers.

Thedeclineincommercialrealestateloansinnonaccrualstatusfromthe2011year-endtoDecember31,

2012waslargelyattributabletoadecreaseinloanstoresidentialhomebuildersanddevelopersinthis

categoryandtotheimpactofapayoffin2012™ssecondquarterofa$58millionconstructionloantoan

owner/operatorofretirementandassistedlivingfacilities.AtDecember31,2013and2012,commercialreal

estateloanstoresidentialhomebuildersanddevelopersclassifiedasnonaccrualaggregated$96millionand

$182million,respectively,comparedwith$281millionatDecember31,2011.Informationaboutthe

locationofnonaccrualandcharged-offloanstoresidentialrealestatebuildersanddevelopersasofandfor

theyearendedDecember31,2013ispresentedintable13.
Table13
RESIDENTIALBUILDERANDDEVELOPERLOANS,NETOFUNEARNEDDISCOUNT
December31,2013
YearEnded
December31,2013
NonaccrualNetCharge-offs(Recoveries)
OutstandingBalances(a)BalancesPercentof
OutstandingBalancesBalancesPercentofAverage
OutstandingBalances(Dollarsinthousands)
NewYork
...........................$
454,014$7,9521.75%$299.11%
Pennsylvania........................115,38947,28840.98583.32
Mid-Atlantic........................496,25840,5188.16(11,623)(2.06)
Other..............................242,0322,319.96(838)(.42)
Total...............................$1,307,693$98,0777.50%$(11,579)(.94)%
(a)Includesapproximately$31millionofloansnotsecuredbyrealestate,ofwhichapproximately$2millionarein
nonaccrualstatus.
Residentialrealestateloannetcharge-offstotaled$13millionin2013,$38millionin2012and
$52millionin2011.Thelowercharge-offsofsuchloansin2013ascomparedwith2012reflectlowerAlt-A

loancharge-offsandgenerallyimprovedeconomicconditions.Nonaccrualresidentialrealestateloansat

December31,2013totaled$334million,comparedwith$345millionand$278millionatDecember31,

2012and2011,respectively.Theincreaseinresidentialrealestateloansclassifiedasnonaccrualfrom

December31,2011tothe2012year-endwaspredominantlyrelatedtotheadditionof$64millionofloans

toonecustomerthataresecuredbyresidentialrealestate.Depressedrealestatevaluesandhighlevelsof

delinquencieshavecontributedtothehigherthanhistoricallevelsofresidentialrealestateloansclassifiedas

nonaccrual.Netcharge-offsofAlt-Aloanswere$8millionin2013,$20millionin2012and$32millionin

2011.NonaccrualAlt-Aloansaggregated$81millionatDecember31,2013,comparedwith$96millionand
62$105millionatDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.Residentialrealestateloanspastdue90daysor
moreandaccruinginterest(excludingacquiredloans)totaled$295million,$313millionand$250million

atDecember31,2013,2012and2011,respectively.Asubstantialportionofsuchamountsrelatedto

guaranteedloansrepurchasedfromgovernment-relatedentities.Informationaboutthelocationof

nonaccrualandcharged-offresidentialrealestateloansasofandfortheyearendedDecember31,2013is

presentedintable14.
Netcharge-offsofconsumerloansduring2013were$60million,comparedwith$83millionin2012
and$91millionin2011.Includedinnetcharge-offsofconsumerloanswere:automobileloansof

$11millionduring2013,$14millionduring2012and$22millionduring2011;recreationalvehicleloansof

$15million,$18millionand$21millionduring2013,2012and2011,respectively;andhomeequityloans

andlinesofcreditsecuredbyone-to-fourfamilyresidentialpropertiesof$12millionduring2013,

$31millionduring2012and$33millionduring2011.Reflectedinnetcharge-offsofhomeequityloansand

linesofcreditin2013were$9millionofrecoveriesofpreviouslycharged-offloansrelatedtoaportfolioof

loansacquiredin2007.Nonaccrualconsumerloanstotaled$125millionatDecember31,2013,compared

with$104millionand$97millionatDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.Includedinnonaccrual

consumerloansatthe2013,2012and2011year-endswere:automobileloansof$21million,$25million

and$27million,respectively;recreationalvehicleloansof$12million,$10millionand$13million,

respectively;andoutstandingbalancesofhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,includingjuniorlienAlt-A

loans,of$79million,$58millionand$47million,respectively.Theincreaseinnonaccrualhomeequity

loansandlinesofcreditin2013reflectstheCompany™sabilitytonowbetteridentifywhenrelatedsenior

lienloansnotownedorservicedbytheCompanyhaveadelinquencyinpaymentthatresultsinthehome

equityloanorlineofcreditbeingplacedinnonaccrualstatus.Informationaboutthelocationofnonaccrual

andcharged-offhomeequityloansandlinesofcreditasofandfortheyearendedDecember31,2013is

presentedintable14.
63Table14
SELECTEDRESIDENTIALREALESTATE-RELATEDLOANDATA
YearEnded
December31,2013
December31,2013
NetCharge-offs
NonaccrualPercentof
AverageOutstandingBalancesOutstandingBalancesBalancesPercentof
OutstandingBalancesBalances(Dollarsinthousands)
Residentialmortgages
NewYork
..............................................$3,636,005$68,8471.89%$1,656.04%
Pennsylvania............................................1,199,06219,1591.601,409.11
Mid-Atlantic............................................2,122,42834,0381.601,458.06
Other..................................................1,554,328129,2638.321,224.06
Total..................................................$8,511,823$251,3072.95%$5,747.06%
Residentialconstructionloans
NewYork
..............................................$
7,098$1351.90%$791.15%
Pennsylvania............................................1,56926717.02ŠŠ
Mid-Atlantic............................................7,69435.45ŠŠ
Other..................................................17,6531,0616.01(173)(.90)
Total..................................................$
34,014$1,4984.40%$(94)(.25)%
Alt-Afirstmortgages
NewYork
..............................................$
63,182$17,69328.00%$1,7122.54%
Pennsylvania............................................11,4892,90925.321721.34
Mid-Atlantic............................................74,63111,90415.95706.88
Other..................................................233,08248,61620.865,0572.00
Total..................................................$
382,384$81,12221.21%$7,6471.85%
Alt-Ajuniorlien
NewYork
..............................................$
1,430$26218.32%$28117.45%
Pennsylvania............................................43435
8.06(6)(1.25)
Mid-Atlantic............................................3,4472768.014.12
Other..................................................8,35084110.071,00711.26
Total..................................................$
13,661$1,41410.35%$1,2868.87%
Firstlienhomeequityloans
NewYork
..............................................$
24,862$2,0428.21%$158.69%
Pennsylvania............................................80,4452,6203.26313.35
Mid-Atlantic............................................99,834624.6352.05
Other..................................................2,913662.27ŠŠ
Total..................................................$
208,054$5,3522.57%$523.25%
Firstlienhomeequitylines
NewYork
..............................................$1,392,002$10,870.78%$1,435.12%
Pennsylvania............................................844,9665,835.69636.08
Mid-Atlantic............................................881,5003,864.44389.05
Other..................................................31,9211,6105.04100.40
Total..................................................$3,150,389$22,179.70%$2,560.10%
Juniorlienhomeequityloans
NewYork
..............................................$
19,432$2,61413.45%$5952.01%
Pennsylvania............................................23,3308283.554011.14
Mid-Atlantic............................................77,4101,5411.99863.80
Other..................................................9,7141641.69(37)(.32)
Total..................................................$
129,886$5,1473.96%$1,822.99%
Juniorlienhomeequitylines
NewYork
..............................................$
960,360$29,6273.08%$3,133.26%
Pennsylvania............................................391,3833,563.91648.14
Mid-Atlantic............................................1,198,8608,438.702,023.15
Other..................................................69,1962,7964.04(271)(.33)
Total..................................................$2,619,799$44,4241.70%$5,533.18%
64InformationaboutpastdueandnonaccrualloansasofDecember31,2013isalsoincludedinnote4
ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Realestateandotherforeclosedassetstotaled$67millionatDecember31,2013,comparedwith$104
millionatDecember31,2012and$157millionatDecember31,2011.Thedeclineinrealestateandother

foreclosedassetsduring2013and2012reflectssalesofsuchassets.Nosignificantgainsorlossesoccurredas

aresultofthosesales.AtDecember31,2013,theCompany™sholdingofresidentialrealestate-related

propertiescomprisedapproximately75%offoreclosedassets.
Managementdeterminedtheallowanceforcreditlossesbyperformingongoingevaluationsofthe
loanandleaseportfolio,includingsuchfactorsasthedifferingeconomicrisksassociatedwitheachloan

category,thefinancialconditionofspecificborrowers,theeconomicenvironmentinwhichborrowers

operate,thelevelofdelinquentloans,thevalueofanycollateraland,whereapplicable,theexistenceofany

guaranteesorindemnifications.Managementevaluatedtheimpactofchangesininterestratesandoverall

economicconditionsontheabilityofborrowerstomeetrepaymentobligationswhenquantifyingthe

Company™sexposuretocreditlossesandtheallowanceforsuchlossesasofeachreportingdate.Factorsalso

consideredbymanagementwhenperformingitsassessment,inadditiontogeneraleconomicconditions

andtheotherfactorsdescribedabove,included,butwerenotlimitedto:(i)theimpactofresidentialreal

estatevaluesontheCompany™sportfolioofloanstoresidentialrealestatebuildersanddevelopersandother

loanssecuredbyresidentialrealestate;(ii)theconcentrationsofcommercialrealestateloansinthe

Company™sloanportfolio;(iii)theamountofcommercialandindustrialloanstobusinessesinareasofNew

YorkStateoutsideoftheNewYorkCitymetropolitanareaandincentralPennsylvaniathathavehistorically

experiencedlesseconomicgrowthandvitalitythanthevastmajorityofotherregionsofthecountry;(iv)the

repaymentperformanceassociatedwiththeCompany™sfirstandsecondlienloanssecuredbyresidential

realestate;and(v)thesizeoftheCompany™sportfolioofloanstoindividualconsumers,whichhistorically

haveexperiencedhighernetcharge-offsasapercentageofloansoutstandingthanotherloantypes.Thelevel

oftheallowanceisadjustedbasedontheresultsofmanagement™sanalysis.
Managementcautiouslyandconservativelyevaluatedtheallowanceforcreditlossesasof
December31,2013inlightof:(i)residentialrealestatevaluesandthelevelofdelinquenciesofloanssecured

byresidentialrealestate;(ii)economicconditionsinthemarketsservedbytheCompany;(iii)continuing

weaknessinindustrialemploymentinupstateNewYorkandcentralPennsylvania;(iv)thesignificant

subjectivityinvolvedincommercialrealestatevaluationsforpropertieslocatedinareaswithstagnantorlow

growtheconomies;and(v)theamountofloangrowthexperiencedbytheCompany.Whiletherehasbeen

generalimprovementineconomicconditions,concernscontinuetoexistaboutthestrengthand

sustainabilityofsuchimprovements;theslowlystrengtheninghousingmarket;thetroubledstateof

financialandcreditmarkets;FederalReservepositioningofmonetarypolicy;highlevelsofunemployment;

andcontinuedstagnantpopulationgrowthintheupstateNewYorkandcentralPennsylvaniaregions

(approximately60%oftheCompany™sloansaretocustomersinNewYorkStateandPennsylvania).
TheCompanyutilizesaloangradingsystemwhichisappliedtoallcommercialandcommercialreal
estateloans.Loangradesareutilizedtodifferentiateriskwithintheportfolioandconsidertheexpectations

ofdefaultforeachloan.Commercialloansandcommercialrealestateloanswithalowerexpectationof

defaultareassignedoneoftenpossibleﬁpassﬂloangradesandaregenerallyascribedlowerlossfactorswhen

determiningtheallowanceforcreditlosses.Loanswithanelevatedlevelofcreditriskareclassifiedas

ﬁcriticizedﬂandareascribedahigherlossfactorwhendeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses.Criticized

loansmaybeclassifiedasﬁnonaccrualﬂiftheCompanynolongerexpectstocollectallamountsaccordingto

thecontractualtermsoftheloanagreementortheloanisdelinquent90daysormore.Criticized

commercialloansandcommercialrealestateloanswere$1.8billionatDecember31,2013,comparedwith

$2.4billionatDecember31,2012.Loanofficerswiththesupportofloanreviewpersonnelindifferent

geographiclocationsareresponsibletocontinuouslyreviewandreassignloangradestopassandcriticized

loansbasedontheirdetailedknowledgeofindividualborrowersandtheirjudgmentoftheimpactonsuch

borrowersresultingfromchangingconditionsintheirrespectivegeographicregions.Onaquarterlybasis,

theCompany™scentralizedloanreviewdepartmentreviewsallcriticizedcommercialandcommercialreal

estateloansgreaterthan$1milliontodeterminetheappropriatenessoftheassignedloangrade,including

whethertheloanshouldbereportedasaccruingornonaccruing.Forcriticizednonaccrualloans,additional

meetingsareheldwithloanofficersandtheirmanagers,workoutspecialistsandseniormanagementto

discusseachoftherelationships.Inanalyzingcriticizedloans,borrower-specificinformationisreviewed,

includingoperatingresults,futurecashflows,recentdevelopmentsandtheborrower™soutlook,andother

pertinentdata.Thetimingandextentofpotentiallosses,consideringcollateralvaluationandotherfactors,
65andtheCompany™spotentialcoursesofactionarereviewed.Totheextentthattheseloansarecollateral-
dependent,theyareevaluatedbasedonthefairvalueoftheloan™scollateralasestimatedatornearthefinancial

statementdate.Asthequalityofaloandeterioratestothepointofclassifyingtheloanasﬁcriticized,ﬂthe

processofobtainingupdatedcollateralvaluationinformationisusuallyinitiated,unlessitisnotconsidered

warrantedgivenfactorssuchastherelativesizeoftheloan,thecharacteristicsofthecollateralortheageofthe

lastvaluation.Inthosecaseswherecurrentappraisalsmaynotyetbeavailable,priorappraisalsareutilized

withadjustments,asdeemednecessary,forestimatesofsubsequentdeclinesinvalueasdeterminedbylineof

businessand/orloanworkoutpersonnelintherespective
geographicregions.Thoseadjustmentsarereviewed
andassessedforreasonablenessbytheCompany™screditd
epartment.Accordingly,forrealestatecollateral
securinglargercommercialandcommercialrealestateloans,estimatedcollateralvaluesarebasedoncurrent

appraisalsandestimatesofvalue.Fornon-realestateloans,collateralisassignedadiscountedestimated

liquidationvalueand,dependingonthenatureofthecollateral,isverifiedthroughfieldexamsorother

procedures.Inassessingcollateral,realestateandnon-r
ealestatevaluesarereducedbyanestimateofselling
costs.Withregardtoresidentialrealestateloans,theCompany™slossidentificationandestimationtechniques

makereferencetoloanperformanceandhousepricedatai
nspecificareasofthecountrywherecollateralthat
wassecuringtheCompany™sresidentialrealestateloansw
aslocated.Forresidentialrealestateloans,including
homeequityloansandlinesofcredit,theexcessofthelo
anbalanceoverthenetrealizablevalueoftheproperty
collateralizingtheloanischarged-offwhentheloanbecomes150daysdelinquent.Thatcharge-offisbasedon

recentindicationsofvaluefromexternalpartiesthataregenerallyobtainedshortlyafteraloanbecomes

nonaccrual.AtDecember31,2013approximately55%oftheCompany™shomeequityportfolioconsistedof

firstlienloansandlinesofcredit.Oftheremainingjuniorlienloansintheportfolio,approximately75%(or

approximately34%oftheaggregatehomeequityportfolio)consistedofjuniorlienloansthatwerebehinda

firstlienmortgageloanthatwasnotownedorservicedbytheCompany.Totheextentknownbythe

Company,ifaseniorlienloan,wouldbeonnonaccrualstatusbecauseofpaymentdelinquency,evenifsuch

seniorlienloanwasnotownedbytheCompany,thejuniorlienloanorlinethatisownedbytheCompanyis

placedonnonaccrualstatus.AtDecember31,2013,thebalanceofjuniorlienloansandlinesthatwerein

nonaccrualstatussolelyasaresultoffirstlienloanperformancewas$30million,comparedwith$7millionat

December31,2012whensuchdeterminationwasbasedonlyonthestatusofrelatedseniorlienloansthatwere

ownedorservicedbytheCompany.AtDecember31,2013,approximately$22millionofthe$30million

referredtoaboverelatedtoloanswheretheseniorlienloanwasnotownedorservicedbytheCompany.In

monitoringthecreditqualityofitshomeequityportfolioforpurposesofdeterminingtheallowanceforcredit

losses,theCompanyreviewsdelinquencyandnonaccr
ualinformationandconsidersrecentcharge-off
experience.Additionally,theCompanygenerallyevaluateshomeequityloansandlinesofcreditthataremore

than150dayspastdueforcollectibilityonaloan-by-loanbasisandtheexcessoftheloanbalanceoverthenet

realizablevalueofthepropertycollateralizingtheloanischarged-offatthattime.Indeterminingtheamount

ofsuchcharge-offs,iftheCompanydoesnotknowthep
reciseamountoftheremainingfirstlienmortgage
loan(typicallybecausetheCompanydoesnotownorservicethefirstlienloan),theCompanyassumesthat

thefirstlienmortgageloanhashadnoprincipalamortizationsincetheoriginationofthejuniorlienloan.

Similarly,datausedinestimatingincurredlossesforpu
rposesofdeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses
alsoassumesnoreductionsinoutstandingprincipaloffirstlienloanssincetheoriginationofthejuniorlien

loan.Homeequitylineofcredittermsvarybutsuchlinesaregenerallyoriginatedwithanopendrawperiodof

tenyearsfollowedbyanamortizationperiodofuptotwentyyears.AtDecember31,2013,approximately95%

ofalloutstandingbalancesofhomeequitylinesofcreditrelatedtolinesthatwerestillinthedrawperiod,the

weighted-averageremainingdrawperiodswereapprox
imatelyfiveyears,andapproximately21%weremaking
contractuallyallowedpaymentsthatdonotincludeanyrepaymentofprincipal.
FactorsthatinfluencetheCompany™screditlossexperienceincludeoveralleconomicconditions
affectingbusinessesandconsumers,generally,butalsoresidentialandcommercialrealestatevaluations,in

particular,giventhesizeoftheCompany™srealestateloanportfolios.Commercialrealestatevaluationscan

behighlysubjective,astheyarebaseduponmanyassumptions.Suchvaluationscanbesignificantlyaffected

overrelativelyshortperiodsoftimebychangesinbusinessclimate,economicconditions,interestrates,and,

inmanycases,theresultsofoperationsofbusinessesandotheroccupantsoftherealproperty.Similarly,

residentialrealestatevaluationscanbeimpactedbyhousingtrends,theavailabilityoffinancingat

reasonableinterestrates,andgeneraleconomicconditionsaffectingconsumers.
Indeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanyestimateslossesattributabletospecific
troubledcreditsidentifiedthroughbothnormalanddetailedorintensifiedcreditreviewprocessesandalso

estimateslossesinherentinotherloansandleases.Inquantifyingincurredlosses,theCompanyconsiders
66thefactorsandusesthetechniquesdescribedhereinandinnote5ofNotestoFinancialStatements.For
purposesofdeterminingtheleveloftheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanysegmentsitsloanandlease

portfoliobyloantype.TheamountofspecificlosscomponentsintheCompany™sloanandleaseportfolios

isdeterminedthroughaloanbyloananalysisofcommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloansin

nonaccrualstatus.Measurementofthespecificlosscomponentsistypicallybasedonexpectedfuturecash

flows,collateralvaluesorotherfactorsthatmayimpacttheborrower™sabilitytopay.Lossesassociatedwith

residentialrealestateloansandconsumerloansaregenerallydeterminedbyreferencetorecentcharge-off

historyandareevaluated(andadjustedifdeemedappropriate)throughconsiderationofotherfactors

includingnear-termforecastedlossestimatesdevelopedbytheCompany™screditdepartment.These

forecastsgiveconsiderationtooverallborrowerrepaymentperformanceandcurrentgeographicregion

changesincollateralvaluesusingthirdpartypublishedhistoricalpriceindicesorautomatedvaluation

methodologies.Withregardtocollateralvalues,therealizabilityofsuchvaluesbytheCompany

contemplatesrepaymentofanyfirstlienpositionpriortorecoveringamountsonajuniorlienposition.

Approximately45%oftheCompany™shomeequityportfolioconsistsofjuniorlienloansandlinesofcredit.

TheCompanygenerallyevaluatesresidentialrealestateloansandhomeequityloansandlinesofcreditthat

aremorethan150dayspastdueforcollectibilityonaloan-by-loanbasisandtheexcessoftheloanbalance

overthenetrealizablevalueofthepropertycollateralizingtheloanischarged-offatthattime.Exceptfor

consumerloansandresidentialrealestateloansthatareconsideredsmallerbalancehomogeneousloansand

areevaluatedcollectivelyandloansobtainedinacquisitiontransactions,theCompanyconsidersaloantobe

impairedwhen,basedoncurrentinformationandevents,itisprobablethattheCompanywillbeunableto

collectallamountsaccordingtothecontractualtermsoftheloanagreementortheloanisdelinquent

90daysormoreandhasbeenplacedinnonaccrualstatus.Thoseimpairedloansareevaluatedforspecific

losscomponents.Modifiedloans,includingsmallerbalancehomogenousloans,thatareconsideredtobe

troubleddebtrestructuringsareevaluatedforimpairmentgivingconsiderationtotheimpactofthe

modifiedloantermsonthepresentvalueoftheloan™sexpectedcashflows.Loanslessthan90days

delinquentaredeemedtohaveaminimaldelayinpaymentandaregenerallynotconsideredtobeimpaired.

Loansacquiredinconnectionwithacquisitiontransactionssubsequentto2008wererecordedatfairvalue

withnocarry-overofanypreviouslyrecordedallowanceforcreditlosses.Determiningthefairvalueofthe

acquiredloansrequiredestimatingcashflowsexpectedtobecollectedontheloansanddiscountingthose

cashflowsatthen-currentinterestrates.Theimpactofestimatedfuturecreditlossesrepresentsthe

predominantdifferencebetweencontractuallyrequiredpaymentsatacquisitionandthecashflowsexpected

tobecollectedatacquisition.SubsequentdecreasestothoseexpectedcashflowsrequiretheCompanyto

evaluatetheneedforanadditionalallowanceforcreditlossesandcouldleadtocharge-offsofacquiredloan

balances.TheinherentbaselevellosscomponentsoftheCompany™sallowanceforcreditlossesaregenerally
determinedbyapplyinglossfactorstospecificloanbalancesbasedonloantypeandmanagement™s

classificationofsuchloansundertheCompany™sloangradingsystem.TheCompanyutilizesaloangrading

systemwhichisappliedtoallcommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloans.Aspreviouslydescribed,

loanofficersareresponsibleforcontinuallyassigninggradestotheseloansbasedonstandardsoutlinedin

theCompany™sCreditPolicy.InternalloangradesarealsoextensivelymonitoredbytheCompany™sloan

reviewdepartmenttoensureconsistencyandstrictadherencetotheprescribedstandards.Loanbalances

utilizedintheinherentbaselevellosscomponentcomputationsexcludeloansandleasesforwhichspecific

allocationsaremaintained.LoangradesareassignedlosscomponentfactorsthatreflecttheCompany™sloss

estimateforeachgroupofloansandleases.Factorsconsideredinassigningloangradesandlosscomponent

factorsincludeborrower-specificinformationrelatedtoexpectedfuturecashflowsandoperatingresults,

collateralvalues,financialcondition,paymentstatus,andotherinformation;levelsofandtrendsin

portfoliocharge-offsandrecoveries;levelsofandtrendsinportfoliodelinquenciesandimpairedloans;

changesintheriskprofileofspecificportfolios;trendsinvolumeandtermsofloans;effectsofchangesin

creditconcentrations;andobservedtrendsandpracticesinthebankingindustry.Indeterminingthe

allowanceforcreditlosses,managementalsogivesconsiderationtosuchfactorsascustomer,industryand

geographicconcentrationsaswellasnationalandlocaleconomicconditionsincluding:(i)the

comparativelypoorereconomicconditionsandunfavorablebusinessclimateinmanymarketregionsserved

bytheCompany,includingupstateNewYorkandcentralPennsylvania,thatresultinsuchregionsgenerally

experiencingsignificantlypoorereconomicgrowthandvitalityascomparedwithmuchoftherestofthe

country;(ii)portfolioconcentrationsregardingloantype,collateraltypeandgeographiclocation,in

particular,thelargeconcentrationsofcommercialrealestateloansservicedbypropertiesintheNewYork
67CitymetropolitanareaandotherareasofNewYorkState;and(iii)additionalriskassociatedwiththe
Company™sportfolioofconsumerloans,inparticularautomobileloansandleases,whichgenerallyhave

higherratesoflossthanothertypesofcollateralizedloans.
Theinherentbaselevellosscomponentsrelatedtoresidentialrealestateloansandconsumerloansare
generallydeterminedbyapplyinglossfactorstoportfoli
obalancesafterconsiderationofpaymentperformance
andrecentlossexperienceandtrends,whicharemainlydrivenbycurrentcollateralvaluesinthemarketplace

aswellastheamountofloandefaults.Lossratesforloanssecuredbyresidentialrealestate,includinghome

equityloansandlinesofcredit,aredeterminedbyreferencetorecentcharge-offhistoryandareevaluated(and

adjustedifdeemedappropriate)throughconsiderationofotherfactorsaspreviouslydescribed.
Inevaluatingcollateral,theCompanyreliesextensivelyoninternallyandexternallyprepared
valuations.Residentialrealestatevaluationsareusuallybasedonsalesofcomparablepropertiesinthe

respectivelocation.Commercialrealestatevaluationsalsorefertosalesofcomparablepropertiesbut

oftentimesarebasedoncalculationsthatutilizemanyassumptionsand,asaresult,canbehighlysubjective.

Specifically,commercialrealestatevaluescanbesignificantlyaffectedoverrelativelyshortperiodsoftime

bychangesinbusinessclimate,economicconditionsandinterestrates,and,inmanycases,theresultsof

operationsofbusinessesandotheroccupantsoftherealproperty.Additionally,managementisawarethat

thereisoftentimesadelayintherecognitionofcreditqualitychangesinloansand,asaresult,inchangesto

assignedloangradesduetotimedelaysinthemanifestationandreportingofunderlyingeventsthatimpact

creditquality.Accordingly,lossestimatesderivedfromtheinherentbaselevellosscomponentcomputation

areadjustedforcurrentnationalandlocaleconomicconditionsandtrends.Economicindicatorsinthe

mostsignificantmarketregionsservedbytheCompanycontinuedtoimprovemodestlyin2013but

remainedgenerallybelowpre-recessionlevels.Forexample,during2013,privatesectoremploymentin

mostmarketareasservedbytheCompanyroseby1.4%,trailingthe2.0%U.S.average.Privatesector

employmentin2013increased0.8%inupstateNewYork,1.3%inareasofPennsylvaniaservedbythe

Company,1.6%inMaryland,1.4%inGreaterWashingtonD.C.and2.2%intheStateofDelaware.InNew

YorkCity,privatesectoremploymentincreasedby2.4%in2013,however,unemploymentratesthere

remainelevatedandareexpectedtocontinueatabovehistoricallevelsduring2014.Attheendof2013there

remainedsignificantconcernsaboutthepaceofnationaleconomicrecoveryfromtherecession,high

unemployment,realestatevaluations,highlevelsofconsumerindebtedness,volatileenergyprices,federal

fiscalpolicyandemergingmarketsgrowthprospectsthatweighontheglobaleconomicoutlook.Those

factorsareexpectedtoactasheadwindsforthenationaleconomyin2014.
Thespecificlosscomponentsandtheinherentbaselevellosscomponentstogethercomprisethetotal
baselevelorﬁallocatedﬂallowanceforcreditlosses.Suchallocatedportionoftheallowancerepresents

management™sassessmentoflossesexistinginspecificlargerbalanceloansthatarereviewedindetailby

managementandpoolsofotherloansthatarenotindividuallyanalyzed.Inaddition,theCompanyhas

alwaysprovidedaninherentunallocatedportionoftheallowancethatisintendedtorecognizeprobable

lossesthatarenototherwiseidentifiable.Theinherentunallocatedallowanceincludesmanagement™s

subjectivedeterminationofamountsnecessaryforsuchthingsasthepossibleuseofimpreciseestimatesin

determiningtheallocatedportionoftheallowanceandotherrisksassociatedwiththeCompany™sloan

portfoliowhichmaynotbespecificallyallocable.
Acomparativeallocationoftheallowa
nceforcreditlossesforeachofthep
astfiveyear-endsispresentedin
table15.Amountswereallocatedtospecificloancategori
esbasedoninformationavailabletomanagementatthe
timeofeachyear-endassessmentandusingthemethodolog
ydescribedherein.Variationsintheallocationofthe
allowancebyloancategoryasapercentageofthoseloans
reflectchangesinmanagement™sestimateofspecificloss
componentsandinherentbaselevelloss
components,includingtheimpactofd
elinquenciesandnonaccrualloans.
Asdescribedinnote5ofNotestoFinancialStatemen
ts,loansconsideredimpairedwere$889millionand
$1.1billionatDecember31,2013andDecember31,2012,resp
ectively.Theallocatedportionoftheallowancefor
creditlossesrelatedtoimpairedloanstotaled$93mi
llionatDecember31,2013and$133millionatDecember31,
2012.Theunallocatedportionoftheallowanceforcreditlosseswasequalto.12%and.11%ofgrossloans

outstandingatDecember31,2013and2012,respectively.G
iventheinherentimprecisioninthemanyestimates
usedinthedeterminationoftheallocatedportionofthea
llowance,managementdeliberatelyremainedcautious
andconservativeinestablishingtheoverallallowancefor
creditlosses.GiventheCompany™shighconcentrationof
realestateloansandconsideringtheotherfactorsalread
ydiscussedherein,managementconsiderstheallocated
andunallocatedportionsoftheallowanceforcreditlossestobeprudentandreasonable.Furthermore,the

Company™sallowanceisgeneralinnatureandisavail
abletoabsorblossesfromanyloanorleasecategory.
Additionalinformationabouttheallowanceforcreditlosse
sisincludedinnote5ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
68Table15
ALLOCATIONOFTHEALLOWANCEFORCREDITLOSSESTOLOANCATEGORIES
December31
20132012201120102009(Dollarsinthousands)
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
.........$273,383$246,759$234,022$212,579$219,170
Realestate
.............................403,634425,908459,552486,913451,352
Consumer.............................164,644179,418143,121133,067137,124
Unallocated............................75,01573,77571,59570,38270,376
Total................................$916,676$925,860$908,290$902,941$878,022
AsaPercentageofGrossLoans
andLeasesOutstanding
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
.........1.45%1.37%1.47%1.56%1.59%
Realestate
.............................1.151.141.421.791.70
Consumer.............................1.601.551.191.161.14
ManagementbelievesthattheallowanceforcreditlossesatDecember31,2013appropriately
reflectedcreditlossesinherentintheportfolioasofthatdate.Theallowanceforcreditlosseswas

$917millionor1.43%oftotalloansandleasesatDecember31,2013,comparedwith$926millionor1.39%

atDecember31,2012and$908millionor1.51%atDecember31,2011.Theratiooftheallowancetototal

loansandleasesateachrespectiveyear-endreflectstheimpactofloansobtainedinacquisitiontransactions

subsequentto2008thathavebeenrecordedatestimatedfairvaluebasedonestimatedfuturecashflows

expectedtobereceivedonthoseloans.Thosecashflowsreflecttheimpactofexpecteddefaultsoncustomer

repaymentperformance.Asnotedearlier,GAAPprohibitsanycarry-overofanallowanceforcreditlosses

foracquiredloansrecordedatfairvalue.Duringthethirdquarterof2013,theallowanceforcreditlosses

wasreducedby$11millionasaresultofthe$1.4billionautomobileloansecuritizationpreviouslynoted.

Theincreaseintheratiooftheallowancetototalloansandleasesfromthe2012year-endtoDecember31,

2013waslargelyduetotheautomobileloansecuritizationandthesecuritizationof$1.3billionofFHA

guaranteedresidentialrealestateloans.Thedeclineintheratiooftheallowancetototalloansandleases

fromDecember31,2011tothe2012yearendreflectstheimpactofnewlyoriginatedloansforwhich

significantlosseshadnotbeenincurredasofDecember31,2012aswellasimprovementinthelevelsof

criticizedandnonaccrualloans.Theleveloftheallowancereflectsmanagement™sevaluationoftheloanand

leaseportfoliousingthemethodologyandconsideringthefactorsasdescribedherein.Shouldthevarious

creditfactorsconsideredbymanagementinestablishingtheallowanceforcreditlosseschangeandshould

management™sassessmentoflossesinherentintheloanportfoliosalsochange,theleveloftheallowanceasa

percentageofloanscouldincreaseordecreaseinfutureperiods.Theratiooftheallowancetononaccrual

loansattheendof2013,2012and2011was105%,91%and83%,respectively.GiventheCompany™s

positionasasecuredlenderanditspracticeofchargingoffloanbalanceswhencollectionisdeemed

doubtful,thatratioandchangesinthatratioaregenerallynotanindicativemeasureoftheadequacyofthe

Company™sallowanceforcreditlosses,nordoesmanagementrelyuponthatratioinassessingtheadequacy

oftheallowance.Theleveloftheallowancereflectsmanagement™sevaluationoftheloanandleaseportfolio

asofeachrespectivedate.
Inestablishingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,managementfollowsthemethodologydescribed
herein,includingtakingaconservativeviewofborrowers™abilitiestorepayloans.Theestablishmentofthe

allowanceisextremelysubjectiveandrequiresmanagementtomakemanyjudgmentsaboutborrower,

industry,regionalandnationaleconomichealthandperformance.Inordertopresentexamplesofthe

possibleimpactontheallowancefromcertainchangesincreditqualityfactors,theCompanyassumedthe

followingscenariosforpossibledeteriorationofcreditquality:
ŠForconsumerloansandleasesconsideredsmallerbalancehomogenousloansandevaluated

collectively,a50basispointincreaseinlossfactors;
ŠForresidentialrealestateloansandhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,alsoconsideredsmaller

balancehomogenousloansandevaluatedcollectively,a25%increaseinestimatedinherent

losses;and
ŠForcommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloans,amigrationofloanstolower-rankedrisk

gradesresultingina25%increaseinthebalanceofclassifiedcreditsineachriskgrade.
69Forpossibleimprovementincreditqualityfactors,thescenariosassumedwere:
ŠForconsumerloansandleases,a20basispointdecreaseinlossfactors;
ŠForresidentialrealestateloansandhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,a10%decreasein
estimatedinherentlosses;and
ŠForcommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloans,amigrationofloanstohigher-rankedrisk

gradesresultingina5%decreaseinthebalanceofclassifiedcreditsineachriskgrade.
Thescenarioanalysesresultedinanadditional$75millionthatcouldbeidentifiableunderthe
assumptionsforcreditdeterioration,whereasundertheassumptionsforcreditimprovementa$25million

reductioncouldoccur.Theseexamplesareonlyafewofnumerousreasonablypossiblescenariosthatcould

beutilizedinassessingthesensitivityoftheallowanceforcreditlossesbasedonchangesinassumptionsand

otherfactors.
Investor-ownedcommercialrealestateloanssecuredbyretailpropertiesintheNewYorkCity
metropolitanarearepresented3%ofloansoutstandingatDecember31,2013.TheCompanyhadno

concentrationsofcreditextendedtoanyspecificindustrythatexceeded10%oftotalloansatDecember31,

2013.Outstandingloanstoforeignborrowerswere$192millionatDecember31,2013,or.3%oftotalloans

andleases.
OtherIncome
Otherincometotaled$1.87billionin2013,up12%from$1.67billionin2012.Reflectedinsuchincome

werenetgainsandlossesoninvestmentsecurities(includingother-than-temporaryimpairmentlosses),

whichtotaledtoanetgainof$47millionin2013andtoanetlossof$48millionin2012.Alsoreflectedin

noninterestincomein2013weregainsfromsecuritizationactivitiesof$63million.Excludingthespecific

itemsmentionedabove,noninterestincomewas$1.76billionin2013,up$40millionfrom$1.72billionin

2012.Highertrust,brokerageservicesandcreditcardinterchangeincomein2013waspartiallyoffsetby

lowermortgagebankingrevenues.
Otherincomein2012was5%higherthanthe$1.58billionearnedin2011.Asnotedabove,reflected
inotherincomein2012werenetlossesfrombankinvestmentsecuritiesof$48million,comparedwithnet

gainsof$73millionin2011.Excludingtheimpactofsecuritiesgainsandlossesfrombothyears,aswellas

the$55millionCDOlitigationsettlementandthe$65milliongainrecognizedontheacquisitionof

WilmingtonTrustin2011,otherincomeof$1.72billionin2012wasup$325millionfrom$1.39billionin

2011.Thepredominantcontributorstothatriseinnoninterestincomewerehigherlevelsofmortgage

bankingrevenuesandtrustincome,thelatterreflectingthefull-yearimpactoftheacquisitionof

WilmingtonTrust.
Mortgagebankingrevenuestotaled$331millionin2013,$349millionin2012and$166millionin
2011.Mortgagebankingrevenuesarecomprisedofbothresidentialandcommercialmortgagebanking

activities.TheCompany™sinvolvementincommercialmortgagebankingactivitiesincludestheorigination,

salesandservicingofloansunderthemultifamilyloanprogramsofFannieMae,FreddieMacandthe

U.S.DepartmentofHousingandUrbanDevelopment.
Residentialmortgagebankingrevenues,consistingofrealizedgainsfromsalesofresidentialreal
estateloansandloanservicingrights,unrealizedgainsandlossesonresidentialrealestateloansheldforsale

andrelatedcommitments,residentialrealestateloanservicingfees,andotherresidentialrealestateloan-

relatedfeesandincome,were$251millionin2013,$264millionin2012and$103millionin2011.The

declineinresidentialmortgagebankingrevenuesfrom2012to2013wasduetonarrowermarginsonloans

originatedforsale.Thesignificantlyhigherlevelofresidentialmortgagebankingrevenuesin2012as

comparedwith2011resultedfromincreasedvolumesofloansoriginatedforsaleandwidermarginsrelated

tosuchloans.Thosehighervolumesreflectedincreasedrefinancingactivitiesbyconsumersinlightofthe

lowinterestrateenvironmentandincludedtheimpactoftheCompany™sinvolvementintheU.S.

government™sHomeAffordableRefinanceProgram(ﬁHARP2.0ﬂ),whichallowshomeownerstorefinance

theirFannieMaeorFreddieMacmortgageswhenthevalueoftheirhomehasfallensuchthattheyhave

littleornoequity.TheHARP2.0programwassettoexpireDecember31,2013,butwasextendedandwill

nowbeavailabletoborrowersthroughDecember31,2015.Nevertheless,volumesassociatedwiththat

programhavecurtailedasmortgageloaninterestrateshaverisenandfollowingthesignificantre-financing

activitythathasalreadytakenplace.
Newcommitmentstooriginateresidentialrealestateloanstobesoldtotaledapproximately
$5.6billionin2013,comparedwith$5.1billionin2012and$1.9billionin2011.Includedinthose

commitmentstooriginateresidentialrealestateloanstobesoldwereHARP2.0commitmentsof$1.1
70billionin2013and$1.8billionin2012.TheHARP2.0programbeganinDecember2011.Realizedgains
fromsalesofresidentialrealestateloansandloanservicingrights(netoftheimpactofcostsassociatedwith

obligationstorepurchaserealestateloansoriginatedforsale)andrecognizednetunrealizedgainsorlosses

attributabletoresidentialrealestateloansheldforsale,commitmentstooriginateloansforsaleand

commitmentstosellloanstotaledtoagainof$123millionin2013,comparedwithgainsof$157millionin

2012and$17millionin2011.
TheCompanyiscontractuallyobligatedtorepurchasepreviouslysoldloansthatdonotultimately
meetinvestorsalecriteriarelatedtounderwritingproceduresorloandocumentation.Whenrequiredtodo

so,theCompanymayreimburseloanpurchasersforlossesincurredormayrepurchasecertainloans.The

Companyreducesresidentialmortgagebankingrevenuesforlossesrelatedtoitsobligationstoloan

purchasers.Theamountofthosechargesvariesbasedonthevolumeofloanssold,thelevelof

reimbursementrequestsreceivedfromloanpurchasersandestimatesoflossesthatmaybeassociatedwith

previouslysoldloans.Residentialmortgagebankingrevenuesduring2013,2012and2011werereducedby

approximately$17million,$28millionand$23million,respectively,relatedtotheactualoranticipated

settlementofrepurchaseobligations.
Formuchof2011and2012,theCompanyoriginatedcertainresidentialrealestateloanstobeheldin
itsloanportfolio,ratherthansellingsuchloans.TheretainedloansconformedtoFannieMaeandFreddie

Macunderwritingguidelines.Retainingthoseresidentialrealestateloansoffsettheimpactofthedeclining

investmentsecuritiesportfolioresultingfrommaturitiesandpay-downsofresidentialmortgage-backed

securitieswhileprovidinghighqualityassetsearningareasonableyield.Thedecisiontoretainforportfolio

themajorityofsuchloansoriginatedratherthansellingthemresultedinareductionofresidentialmortgage

bankingrevenuesofapproximately$53millionand$27millionin2012and2011,respectively.Duetothe

significantgrowthintheCompany™sresidentialrealestateloanportfolioandthependingHudsonCity

acquisition,beginninginSeptember2012themajorityoftheCompany™scommitmentsaretooriginate

residentialrealestateloansforsale.
Loansheldforsalethataresecuredbyresidentialrealestatetotaled$401millionand$1.2billionat
December31,2013and2012,respectively.Commitmentstosellresidentialrealestateloansand

commitmentstooriginateresidentialrealestateloansforsaleatpre-determinedrateswere$725millionand

$470million,respectively,atDecember31,2013,$2.3billionand$1.6billion,respectively,atDecember31,

2012and$296millionand$182million,respectively,atDecember31,2011.Netunrealizedgainson

residentialrealestateloansheldforsale,commitmentstosellloans,andcommitmentstooriginateloansfor

salewere$20millionand$83millionatDecember31,2013and2012,respectively,and$6millionat

December31,2011.Changesinsuchnetunrealizedgainsandlossesarerecordedinmortgagebanking

revenuesandresultedinnetdecreasesinrevenueof$63millionand$4millionin2013and2011,

respectively,andanetincreaseinrevenueof$77millionin2012.
Revenuesfromservicingresidentialrealestateloansforotherswere$128millionin2013,upfrom
$107millionin2012and$86millionin2011.Residentialrealestateloansservicedforotherstotaled

$72.4billionatDecember31,2013,$35.9billionayearearlierand$40.7billionatDecember31,2011,

includingcertainsmall-balancecommercialrealestateloansofapproximately$3.2billion,$3.8billionand

$4.4billionatDecember31,2013,2012and2011,respectively.Reflectedinresidentialrealestateloans

servicedforotherswereloanssub-servicedforothersof$46.6billion,$12.5billionand$14.3billionat

December31,2013,2012and2011,respectively.Includedinresidentialrealestateloanssub-servicedfor

otherswereloanssub-servicedforaffiliatesofBLGof$45.6billion,$11.4billionand$13.1billionat

December31,2013,2012,and2011,respectively.Duringthethirdquarterof2013,theCompanyadded

approximately$38billionofresidentialrealestateloanstoitsportfolioofloanssub-servicedforaffiliatesof

BLG.Thatadditionalsub-servicingaddedapproximately$20millionofrevenuein2013.OnSeptember30,

2011,theCompanypurchasedservicingrightsassociatedwithresidentialrealestateloanshavingan

outstandingprincipalbalanceofapproximately$6.7billion.Approximately$15million,$19millionand$5

millionofservicingfeesrelatedtothatportfolioofloanswereincludedinmortgagebankingrevenues

during2013,2012and2011,respectively.Capitalizedresidentialmortgageservicingassets,netofany

applicablevaluationallowanceforpossibleimpairment,totaled$129millionatDecember31,2013,

comparedwith$108millionand$145millionatDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.Includedin

capitalizedresidentialmortgageservicingassetsnotedabovewerepurchasedservicingrightsassociatedwith

thesmall-balancecommercialrealestateloans.AdditionalinformationabouttheCompany™scapitalized

residentialmortgageservicingassets,includinginformationaboutthecalculationofestimatedfairvalue,is

presentedinnote7ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
71Commercialmortgagebankingrevenueswere$80millionin2013,$85millionin2012and
$63millionin2011.Includedinsuchamountswererevenuesfromloanoriginationandsalesactivitiesof

$48millionin2013,$59millionin2012and$41millionin2011.Commercialrealestateloansoriginated

forsaletootherinvestorstotaledapproximately$1.9billionin2013,comparedwith$2.5billionin2012and

$1.5billionin2011.Loanservicingrevenuestotaled$32millionin2013,$26millionin2012and

$22millionin2011.Capitalizedcommercialmortgageservicingassetsaggregated$72millionat

December31,2013,$60millionatDecember31,2012and$51millionatDecember31,2011.Commercial

realestateloansservicedforotherinvestorstotaled$11.4billion,$10.6billionand$9.0billionat

December31,2013,2012and2011,respectively,andincluded$2.3billion,$2.0billionand$1.8billion,

respectively,ofloanbalancesforwhichinvestorshadrecoursetotheCompanyifsuchbalancesare

ultimatelyuncollectible.Commitmentstosellcommercialrealestateloansandcommitmentstooriginate

commercialrealestateloansforsalewere$130millionand$62million,respectively,atDecember31,2013,

$340millionand$140million,respectively,atDecember31,2012and$339millionand$178million,

respectively,atDecember31,2011.Commercialrealestateloansheldforsaletotaled$68million,

$200millionand$161millionatDecember31,2013,2012and2011,respectively.
Servicechargesondepositaccountswere$447millionineachof2013and2012.Depositaccount
servicechargesin2011were$455million.Thedeclinefrom2011to2012reflectednewregulationsthatwere

enactedaspartoftheDodd-FrankActrelatedtolimitingdebitcardinterchangefeesthatfinancial

institutionsareabletoassess.ThoseregulationswereeffectiveOctober1,2011.TheCompanyestimatesthat

theimpactofthatchangeresultedinareductionofservicechargesondepositaccountsofapproximately

$75millionand$17millionin2012and2011,respectively.Partiallyoffsettingtheimpactofthosenew

regulationsin2012wasthefull-yearimpactofservicechargesondepositaccountsobtainedinthe

WilmingtonTrustacquisition.
Trustincomeincludesfeesrelatedtotwosignificantbusinesses.TheInstitutionalClientServices
(ﬁICSﬂ)businessprovidesavarietyoftrustee,agency,investmentmanagementandadministrativeservices

forcorporationsandinstitutions,investmentbankers,corporatetax,financeandlegalexecutives,andother

institutionalclientswho:(i)usecapitalmarketsfinancingstructures;(ii)useindependenttrusteestohold

retirementplanandotherassets;and(iii)needinvestmentandcashmanagementservices.ManyICSclients

aremultinationalcorporationsandinstitutions.TheWealthAdvisoryServices(ﬁWASﬂ)businesshelpshigh

networthclientsgrowtheirwealth,protectit,andtransferittotheirheirs.Acomprehensivearrayofwealth

managementservicesareoffered,includingassetmanagement,fiduciaryservicesandfamilyofficeservices.

Trustincomeincreased5%in2013to$496millionfrom$472millionin2012.During2011,trustincome

totaled$332million.Theincreaseinsuchincomefrom2012to2013waslargelyduetohigherfeesfromthe

WASbusiness.Thesignificantriseintrustincomefrom2011to2012wasduetothefull-yearimpactin

2012oftheMay2011WilmingtonTrustacquisition.Adverselyimpactingtrustincomein2013,2012and

2011werefeewaiversbytheCompanyinordertoenableproprietarymoney-marketfundstopaycustomers

ayieldontheirinvestmentsinsuchfunds.Thosewaivedfeeswereapproximately$70millionin2013,

$57millionin2012and$33millionin2011.RevenuesassociatedwiththeICSandWASbusinessin2013

were$234millionand$214million,respectively.Priorto2013,certainothertrustoperationsofthe

CompanywerenotcombinedwiththerespectiveICSandWASactivities.Trustincomeattributabletothe

ICSbusinesswasapproximately$193millionin2012and$119millionin2011.Revenuesattributableto

WASwereapproximately$153millionand$87millionin2012and2011,respectively.Totaltrustassets,

whichincludeassetsundermanagementandassetsunderadministration,aggregated$266.1billionat

December31,2013,comparedwith$255.9billionatDecember31,2012.Trustassetsundermanagement

were$65.1billionand$61.5billionatDecember31,2013and2012,respectively.Inadditiontotheasset

amountsnotedabove,trustassetsundermanagementofaffiliatestotaled$17.1billionand$15.4billionat

December31,2013and2012,respectively.TheCompany™sproprietarymutualfundshadassetsof

$12.7billionand$13.9billionatDecember31,2013and2012,respectively.
Brokerageservicesincome,whichincludesrevenuesfromthesaleofmutualfundsandannuitiesand
securitiesbrokeragefees,totaled$66millionin2013,$59millionin2012and$56millionin2011.The

improvementfrom2012to2013reflectshighersalesofannuityproducts,whiletherisefrom2011to2012

wasduetohigherrevenuesearnedfromthesaleofmutualfunds.Tradingaccountandforeignexchange

activityresultedingainsof$41millionin2013,$36millionin2012and$27millionin2011.Therisein

suchgainsin2013ascomparedwith2012waslargelyduetoincreasednewvolumesofinterestrateswap

agreementtransactionsexecutedonbehalfofcommercialcustomers.Thehighergainsin2012ascompared

2011wereduetoincreasedmarketvaluesoftradingaccountassetsheldinconnectionwithdeferred
72compensationarrangementsandtohighernewvolumesofinterestrateswapagreementtransactions
executedonbehalfofcommercialcustomers.TheCompanyentersintointerestrateandforeignexchange

contractswithcustomerswhoneedsuchservicesandconcomitantlyentersintooffsettingtradingpositions

withthirdpartiestominimizetherisksinvolvedwiththesetypesoftransactions.Informationaboutthe

notionalamountofinterestrate,foreignexchangeandothercontractsenteredintobytheCompanyfor

tradingaccountpurposesisincludedinnote18ofNotestoFinancialStatementsandhereinunderthe

headingﬁLiquidity,MarketRisk,andInterestRateSensitivity.ﬂ
Includingother-than-temporaryimpairmentlosses,theCompanyrecognizednetgainson
investmentsecuritiesof$47millionand$73millionduring2013and2011,respectively,comparedwithnet

lossesof$48millionin2012.During2013,theCompanysolditsholdingsofVisaClassBsharesforagainof

approximately$90millionanditsholdingsofMasterCardClassBsharesforagainof$13million.The

sharesofVisaandMasterCardweresoldasaresultoffavorablemarketconditionsandtoenhancethe

Company™scapitalandliquidity.Inaddition,theCompanysoldsubstantiallyallofitsprivatelyissuedMBS

heldintheavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesportfolio.Intotal,$1.0billionofsuchsecuritiesweresold

foranetlossofapproximately$46million.TheMBSweresoldtoreducetheCompany™sexposuretosuch

relativelyhigherrisksecuritiesinfavoroflowerriskGinnieMaesecuritiesinresponsetochanging

regulatorycapitalandliquiditystandards.During2011,theCompanyrealizedgainsof$150millionfrom

thesaleofinvestmentsecuritiesavailableforsale,predominantlyresidentialmortgage-backedsecurities

guaranteedbyFannieMaeandFreddieMac,CDOsandtrustpreferredsecurities,havinganamortizedcost

of$1.75billion.Realizedgainsandlossesfromsalesofinvestmentsecuritieswerenotsignificantin2012.

Other-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesof$10million,$48millionand$77millionwererecordedin

2013,2012and2011,respectively.ThechargesrelatedtocertainprivatelyissuedCMOsbackedby

residentialandcommercialrealestateloans.EachreportingperiodtheCompanyreviewsitsinvestment

securitiesforother-than-temporaryimpairment.Forequitysecurities,theCompanyconsidersvarious

factorstodetermineifthedeclineinvalueisotherthantemporary,includingthedurationandextentofthe

declineinvalue,thefactorscontributingtothedeclineinfairvalue,includingthefinancialconditionofthe

issueraswellastheconditionsoftheindustryinwhichitoperates,andtheprospectsforarecoveryinfair

valueoftheequitysecurity.Fordebtsecurities,theCompanyanalyzesthecreditworthinessoftheissueror

reviewsthecreditperformanceoftheunderlyingcollateralsupportingthebond.Fordebtsecuritiesbacked

bypoolsofloans,suchasprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities,theCompanyestimatesthecashflows

oftheunderlyingloancollateralusingforward-lookingassumptionsofdefaultrates,lossseveritiesand

prepaymentspeeds.Estimatedcollateralcashflowsarethenutilizedtoestimatebond-specificcashflowsto

determinetheultimatecollectibilityofthebond.Ifthepresentvalueofthecashflowsindicatesthatthe

CompanyshouldnotexpecttorecovertheentireamortizedcostbasisofabondoriftheCompanyintends

tosellthebondoritmorelikelythannotwillberequiredtosellthebondbeforerecoveryofitsamortized

costbasis,another-than-temporaryimpairmentlossisrecognized.Ifanother-than-temporaryimpairment

lossisdeemedtohaveoccurred,theinvestmentsecurity™scostbasisisadjusted,asappropriateforthe

circumstances.Additionalinformationaboutother-than-temporaryimpairmentlossesisincludedherein

undertheheadingﬁCapital.ﬂ
M&T™sshareoftheoperatinglossesofBLGwas$16millionin2013,comparedwith$22millionand
$24millionin2012and2011,respectively.TheoperatinglossesofBLGintherespectiveyearsresultedfrom

disruptionsintheresidentialandcommercialrealestatemarketsandreflectedprovisionsforlosses

associatedwithsecuritizedloansandotherloansheldbyBLGandloanservicingandotheradministrative

costs.UnderGAAP,suchlossesarerequiredtoberecognizedbyBLGdespitethefactthatmanyofthe

securitizedloanlosseswillultimatelybebornebytheunderlyingthirdpartybond-holders.Astheseloan

lossesarerealizedthroughlaterforeclosureandstilllatersaleofrealestatecollateral,theunderlyingbonds

willultimatelybecharged-downresultinginBLG™sfuturerecognitionofdebtextinguishmentgains.The

timingofsuchdebtextinguishmentisdifficulttopredictandgivenongoingloanlossprovisioning,itisnot

possibletoprojectwhenBLGwillreturntoprofitability.Asaresultofcreditandliquiditydisruptions,BLG

ceaseditsoriginationsofsmall-balancecommercialrealestateloansin2008.However,asaresultofpast

securitizationactivities,BLGisentitledtocashflowsfrommortgageassetsthatitownsorthatareownedby

itsaffiliatesandisalsoentitledtoreceivedistributionsfromaffiliatesthatprovideassetmanagementand

otherservices.Accordingly,theCompanybelievesthatBLGiscapableofrealizingpositivecashflowsthat

couldbeavailablefordistributiontoitsowners,includingM&T,despitealackofpositiveGAAP-earnings

fromitscoremortgageactivities.Tothispoint,BLG™saffiliateshavelargelyreinvestedtheirearningsto

generateadditionalservicingandassetmanagementactivities,furthercontributingtothevalueofthose
73affiliates.Duringthefourthquarterof2011,theCompanyrecognizeda$79millionother-than-temporary
impairmentchargerelatedtoM&T™s20%investmentinBLG.Whilethesmallbusinesscommercialreal

estatesecuritizationmarketthatBLGpreviouslyoperatedincontinuestobestagnant,itsaffiliatedasset

managementandloanservicingoperationscontinuetogrowandperformwell.BLGisentitledtoreceive,if

andwhenmade,cashdistributionsfromaffiliates,aportionofwhichiscontractuallyrequiredtobe

distributedtoM&T.Nevertheless,inconsiderationofthepassageoftimesinceM&T™soriginalinvestment

inBLGin2007,theprospectsofongoingloanlossesatBLGandtheinabilitytoaccuratelypredictthe

timingofpotentialdistributionstoM&T,managementconcludedthattheinvestmentwasother-than-

temporarilyimpairedandwroteitdowntoitsestimatedfairvalueof$115million.Theimpairmentcharge

of$79millionwasrecordedinﬁothercostsofoperationsﬂin2011.TheCompanybelievesthatthevalueof

itsinvestmentinBLGasofDecember31,2013hasnotchangedsignificantlyfromwhentheimpairment

chargewasrecognizedandthatnoadditionalother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargeisrequired.

InformationabouttheCompany™srelationshipwithBLGanditsaffiliatesisincludedinnote24ofNotesto

FinancialStatements.
Otherrevenuesfromoperationsaggregated$454millionin2013,comparedwith$374millionin
2012.Reflectedinsuchrevenuesin2013weregainsfromsecuritizationtransactions,whichtotaled$63

million.During2013,theCompanysecuritizedapproximately$1.3billionofone-to-fourfamilyresidential

realestateloansheldintheCompany™sloanportfolioinguaranteedmortgagesecuritizationswithGinnie

Maeandrecognizedgainsof$42million.Inaddition,duringthethirdquarterof2013theCompany

securitizedandsoldapproximately$1.4billionofautomobileloansheldinitsloanportfolio,resultingina

gainof$21million.TheCompanysecuritizedthoseloanstoimproveitsregulatorycapitalratiosand

strengthenitsliquidityandriskprofileasaresultofchangingregulatoryrequirements.Otherrevenuesfrom

operationswere$497millionin2011.Reflectedinotherrevenuesfromoperationsinthatyearwerethe$65

milliongainrealizedontheacquisitionofWilmingtonTrustandthe$55millionCDOlitigationsettlement.

Excludingthosetwoitems,otherrevenuesfromoperationswerelittlechangedin2012ascomparedwith

2011,butneverthelessreflectedhighermerchantdiscountandcreditcardfeesin2012offsetbyadeclinein

gainsfromthesaleofpreviouslyleasedequipment.
Includedinotherrevenuesfromoperationswerethefollowingsignificantcomponents.Letterofcredit
andothercredit-relatedfeeswere$132million,$127millionand$130millionin2013,2012and2011,

respectively.Tax-exemptincomeearnedfrombankownedlifeinsurancetotaled$56millionin2013and$51

millionineachof2012and2011.Suchincomeincludesi
ncreasesincashsurrendervalueoflifeinsurance
policiesandbenefitsreceived.Revenuesfrommerchantdiscountandcreditcardfeeswere$84millionin2013,

$77millionin2012and$60millionin2011.Thehigherrevenuesin2013ascomparedwith2012andin2012

ascomparedwith2011werelargelyattributabletoincreasedtransactionvolumesrelatedtomerchantactivity

andusageoftheCompany™screditcardproducts.Insurance-relatedsalescommissionsandotherrevenues

totaled$42millionin2013,comparedwith$44millionin2012and$40millionin2011.Automatedteller

machineusagefeesaggregated$17millionin2013and$19millionineachof2012and2011.
OtherExpense
Otherexpensetotaled$2.64billionin2013,comparedwith$2.51billionin2012and$2.48billionin2011.

Includedinsuchamountsareexpensesconsideredtobeﬁnonoperatingﬂinnatureconsistingof

amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsof$47million,$61millionand$62millionin2013,

2012and2011,respectively,andmerger-relatedexpensesof$12millionin2013,$10millionin2012and

$84millionin2011.Exclusiveofthosenonoperatingexpenses,noninterestoperatingexpensesaggregated

$2.58billionin2013,$2.44billionin2012and$2.33billionin2011.Theriseinsuchexpensesin2013as

comparedwith2012waslargelyattributabletohighercostsforprofessionalservicesandsalaries,partially

offsetbylowerFDICassessmentsandthereversalofthe$26millionaccrualforacontingentcompensation

obligationatWilmingtonTrustthatexpired.Inaddition,theCompanyreachedalegalsettlementofa

previouslydisclosedlawsuit(
i.e.Mennen,etalv.Mennen,WilmingtonTrustCompany,etal
)relatedtoissues
thatwereallegedtooccuratWilmingtonTrustCompanypriortoitsacquisitionbyM&Tthatledtoa

$40millionincreaseintheCompany™sreserveforlitigationasofDecember31,2013.Theincreasein

noninterestoperatingexpensesin2012ascomparedwith2011waslargelyattributabletothefull-year

impactoftheoperationsobtainedintheWilmingtonTrustacquisition.Reflectedin2011noninterest

operatingexpenseswasthepreviouslydiscussed$79millionimpairmentchargerelatedtoBLG.
Salariesandemployeebenefitsexpensein2013totaled$1.36billion,comparedwith$1.31billionand
$1.20billionin2012and2011,respectively.Theincreaseinsuchexpensesin2013from2012was

predominantlyduetohighersalariesexpensesthatreflectanincreaseintheCompany™sloanservicing
74capacitytoaccommodatethesub-servicingarrangementsenteredintoduring2013andcostsrelatedto
BSA/AMLcompliance,capitalplanningandstresstesting,riskmanagementandotheroperational

initiatives.Thosefactorswerepartiallyoffsetbylowerpension-relatedcosts.Thehigherexpenselevelin

2012ascomparedwith2011reflectsthefull-yearimpactoftheoperationsobtainedintheacquisitionof

WilmingtonTrust.Alsocontributingtothehigherexpenselevelin2012wereincreasedincentive

compensationcostsandexpensesrelatedtopensionandpostretirementbenefits.Stock-basedcompensation

totaled$55millionin2013,$57millionin2012and$56millionin2011.Thenumberoffull-time

equivalentemployeeswas15,368atDecember31,2013,comparedwith14,404and15,072atDecember31,

2012and2011,respectively.
TheCompanyprovidespensionandotherpostretirementbenefits(includingaretirementsavings
plan)foritsemployees.Expensesrelatedtosuchbenefitstotaled$87millionin2013,$105millionin2012

and$86millionin2011.TheCompanysponsorsbothdefinedbenefitanddefinedcontributionpension

plans.Pensionbenefitexpenseforthoseplanswas$53millionineachof2013and2011,and$69millionin

2012.Includedinthoseamountsare$21millionin2013,$17millionin2012and$13millionin2011fora

definedcontributionpensionplanthattheCompanybeganonJanuary1,2006.Thedeclineinpensionand

otherpostretirementbenefitsexpensein2013ascomparedwith2012reflectstheimpactonthequalified

definedbenefitpensionplanoffavorableinvestmentreturnsandhigherbalancesofinvestedassets.The

Companymadea$200millioncontributiontothatplaninthethirdquarterof2012.Theriseinpension

andotherpostretirementbenefitsexpensein2012ascomparedwith2011waslargelyreflectiveofa$17

millionincreaseinamortizationofactuariallossesaccumulatedinthedefinedbenefitpensionplans.The

determinationofpensionexpenseandtherecognitionofnetpensionassetsandliabilitiesfordefinedbenefit

pensionplansrequiresmanagementtomakevariousassumptionsthatcansignificantlyimpacttheactuarial

calculationsrelatedthereto.Thoseassumptionsincludetheexpectedlong-termrateofreturnonplanassets,

therateofincreaseinfuturecompensationlevelsandthediscountrate.Changesinanyofthose

assumptionswillimpacttheCompany™spensionexpense.Theexpectedlong-termrateofreturnassumption

isdeterminedbytakingintoconsiderationassetallocations,historicalreturnsonthetypesofassetsheldand

currenteconomicfactors.Returnsoninvestedassetsareperiodicallycomparedwithtargetmarketindices

foreachassettypetoaidmanagementinevaluatingsuchreturns.ThediscountrateusedbytheCompanyto

determinethepresentvalueoftheCompany™sfuturebenefitobligationsreflectsspecificmarketyieldsfora

hypotheticalportfolioofhighlyratedcorporatebondsthatwouldproducecashflowssimilartothe

Company™sbenefitplanobligationsandthelevelofmarketinterestratesingeneralasoftheyear-end.Other

factorsusedtoestimatetheprojectedbenefitobligationsincludeactuarialassumptionsformortalityrate,

turnoverrate,retirementageanddisabilityrate.Thoseotherfactorsdonottendtochangesignificantlyover

time.TheCompanyreviewsitspensionplanassumptionsannuallytoensurethatsuchassumptionsare

reasonableandadjuststhoseassumptions,asnecessary,toreflectchangesinfutureexpectations.The

Companyutilizesactuariesandotherstoaidinthatassessment.
TheCompany™s2013pensionexpenseforitsdefinedbenefitplanswasdeterminedusingthe
followingassumptions:along-termrateofreturnonassetsof6.50%;arateoffuturecompensationincrease

of4.50%;andadiscountrateof3.75%.Todemonstratethesensitivityofpensionexpensetochangesinthe

Company™spensionplanassumptions,25basispointincreasesin:therateofreturnonplanassetswould

haveresultedinadecreaseinpensionexpenseof$3million;therateofincreaseincompensationwould

haveresultedinanincreaseinpensionexpenseof$400,000;andthediscountratewouldhaveresultedina

decreaseinpensionexpenseof$6million.Decreasesof25basispointsinthoseassumptionswouldhave

resultedinsimilarchangesinamount,butintheoppositedirectionfromthechangespresentedinthe

precedingsentence.Theaccountingguidancefordefinedbenefitpensionplansreflectsthelong-termnature

ofbenefitobligationsandtheinvestmenthorizonofplanassets,andhastheeffectofreducingexpense

volatilityrelatedtoshort-termchangesininterestratesandmarketvaluations.Actuarialgainsandlosses

includetheimpactofplanamendments,inadditiontovariousgainsandlossesresultingfromchangesin

assumptionsandinvestmentreturnswhicharedifferentfromthatwhichwasassumed.AsofDecember31,

2013,theCompanyhadcumulativeunrecognizedactuariallossesofapproximately$191millionthatcould

resultinanincreaseintheCompany™sfuturepensionexpensedependingonseveralfactors,including

whethersuchlossesateachmeasurementdateexceedtenpercentofthegreateroftheprojectedbenefit

obligationorthemarket-relatedvalueofplanassets.InaccordancewithGAAP,netunrecognizedgainsor

lossesthatexceedthatthresholdarerequiredtobeamortizedovertheexpectedserviceperiodofactive

employees,andareincludedasacomponentofnetpensioncost.Amortizationofthesenetunrealizedlosses
75hadtheeffectofincreasingtheCompany™spensionexpensebyapproximately$41millionin2013,
$37millionin2012and$21millionin2011.
GAAPrequiresanemployertorecognizeinitsbalancesheetasanassetorliabilitytheoverfundedor
underfundedstatusofadefinedbenefitpostretirementplan,measuredasthedifferencebetweenthefair

valueofplanassetsandthebenefitobligation.Forapensionplan,thebenefitobligationistheprojected

benefitobligation;foranyotherpostretirementbenefitplan,suchasaretireehealthcareplan,thebenefit

obligationistheaccumulatedpostretirementbenefitobligation.Gainsorlossesandpriorservicecostsor

creditsthatariseduringtheperiod,butarenotincludedascomponentsofnetperiodicbenefitcost,areto

berecognizedasacomponentofothercomprehensiveincome.AsofDecember31,2013,thecombined

benefitobligationsoftheCompany™sdefinedbenefitpostretirementplansexceededthefairvalueofthe

assetsofsuchplansbyapproximately$38million.Ofthatamount,$178millionwasrelatedtothenon-

qualifiedpensionandotherpostretirementbenefitplansthataregenerallynotfundeduntilbenefitsare

paid.IntheCompany™squalifieddefinedbenefitpensionplan,thefairvalueofassetsexceededtheprojected

benefitobligationbyapproximately$140millionasofDecember31,2013.Attheprioryear-end,the

projectedbenefitobligationexceededthefairvalueofthatplan™sassetsbyapproximately$105million.The

mainfactorscontributingtothatimprovementinthefundedstatusweretheincreaseinthediscountrate

usedtomeasuretheprojectedbenefitobligationto4.75%atDecember31,2013from3.75%at

December31,2012andbetterthanexpectedreturnsonplanassets.TheCompanywasrequiredtohavea

netpensionandpostretirementbenefitliabilityforthenon-qualifiedpensionandotherpostretirement

benefitplansthatwasequalto$178millionandanetprepaidassetforthequalifiedpensionplanthatwas

equalto$140millionatDecember31,2013.Accordingly,asofDecember31,2013theCompanyrecorded

anadditionalpostretirementbenefitadjustmentof$162million.Afterapplicabletaxeffect,thatadditional

adjustmentreducedaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome(andtherebyshareholders™equity)by

$98million.Theresultofthiswasayear-over-yeardecreaseof$294milliontotheadditionalminimum

postretirementbenefitliabilityfromthe$455millionrecordedatDecember31,2012.Afterapplicabletax

effect,the$294milliondecreaseintheadditionalrequiredliabilityadjustmentincreasedaccumulatedother

comprehensiveincomein2013by$179millionfromtheprioryear-endamountof$277million.Themain

factorscontributingtothechangeintheminimumliabilityfromDecember31,2012weretheimpactof

actualexperienceduring2013thatdifferedfromtheactuarialassumptionsusedandfromchangesinthose

assumptions.Aspreviouslynoted,gainswererealizedfromhigherthanexpectedinvestmentreturnsin2013

inadditiontogainsrealizedintheremeasurementofthebenefitobligationsthatresultedfromanincrease

inthediscountrateusedinthatmeasurement.Indeterminingthebenefitobligationfordefinedbenefit

postretirementplanstheCompanyusedadiscountrateof4.75%atDecember31,2013and3.75%at

December31,2012.A25basispointdecreaseintheassumeddiscountrateasofDecember31,2013to

4.50%wouldhaveresultedinincreasesinthecombinedbenefitobligationsofalldefinedbenefit

postretirementplans(includingpensionandotherplans)of$53million.Underthatscenario,theminimum

postretirementliabilityadjustmentatDecember31,2013wouldhavebeen$215million,ratherthanthe

$162millionthatwasactuallyrecorded,andthecorrespondingaftertax-effectchargetoaccumulatedother

comprehensiveincomeatDecember31,2013wouldhavebeen$131million,ratherthanthe$98million

thatwasactuallyrecorded.A25basispointincreaseintheassumeddiscountrateto5.00%wouldhave

decreasedthecombinedbenefitobligationsofalldefinedbenefitpostretirementplansby$51million.Under

thislatterscenario,theaggregateminimumliabilityadjustmentatDecember31,2013wouldhavebeen

$111millionratherthanthe$162millionactuallyrecordedandthecorrespondingaftertax-effectchargeto

accumulatedothercomprehensiveincomewouldhavebeen$67millionratherthan$98million.The

Companywasnotrequiredtomakeanycontributionstoitsqualifieddefinedbenefitpensionplanin2013,

2012or2011.However,during2012and2011theCompanyelectedtomakecashcontributionsof$200

millionand$70million,respectively.TheCompanydidnotmakeanycontributionstoitsqualifieddefined

benefitpensionplanin2013.InformationabouttheCompany™spensionplans,includingsignificant

assumptionsutilizedincompletingactuarialcalculationsfortheplans,isincludedinnote12ofNotesto

FinancialStatements.
TheCompanyalsoprovidesaretirementsavingsplan(ﬁRSPﬂ)thatisadefinedcontributionplanin
whicheligibleemployeesoftheCompanymaydeferupto50%ofqualifiedcompensationviacontributions

totheplan.TheCompanymakesanemployermatchingcontributioninanamountequalto75%ofan

employee™scontribution,upto4.5%oftheemployee™squalifiedcompensation.RSPexpensetotaled

$32millionin2013,$31millionin2012and$28millionin2011.
ExpensesassociatedwiththedefinedbenefitanddefinedcontributionpensionplansandtheRSP
totaled$85millionin2013,$100millionin2012and$81millionin2011.Expensesassociatedwith
76providingmedicalandotherpostretirementbenefitswere$2millionin2013,$5millionin2012and
$4millionin2011.
Excludingthenonoperatingexpenseitemsalreadynoted,nonpersonneloperatingexpensestotaled
$1.22billionin2013,comparedwith$1.13billionin2012.Thathigherlevelofsuchexpenseswas

predominantlytheresultofincreasedcostsforprofessionalservices,reflectingtheCompany™sinvestments

inBSA/AMLcompliance,capitalplanningandstresstesting,riskmanagement,andoperationalinitiatives,

andthepreviouslynotedincreaseinthelegalsettlementaccrual.Thosehigherexpenseswerepartiallyoffset

bylowerFDICassessmentsandthepreviouslynotedreversalofthecontingentcompensationaccrualrelated

toWilmingtonTrust.Nonpersonneloperatingexpenseswere$1.14billionin2011.Higherexpensesin2012

relatedtothefull-yearimpactoftheoperationsobtainedintheacquisitionofWilmingtonTrustand

professionalserviceswerepredominantlyoffsetbytheimpairmentchargerelatedtoBLGandhigher

charitablecontributionsin2011.
IncomeTaxes
Theprovisionforincometaxeswas$579millionin2013,comparedwith$523millionin2012and

$365millionin2011.Theeffectivetaxrateswere33.7%ineachof2013and2012and29.8%in2011.The

effectivetaxrateisaffectedbythelevelofincomeearnedthatisexemptfromtaxrelativetotheoveralllevel

ofpre-taxincome,thelevelofincomeallocatedtothevariousstateandlocaljurisdictionswherethe

Companyoperates,becausetaxratesdifferamongsuchjurisdictions,andtheimpactofanylargebut

infrequentlyoccurringitems.Forexample,therecognitionofthenon-taxablegainof$65milliononthe

WilmingtonTrustacquisitionservedtolowertheeffectivetaxratein2011.Incometaxesin2011alsoreflect

theresolutionofpreviouslyuncertaintaxpositionsthatallowedtheCompanytoreduceitsaccrualfor

incometaxesintotalby$12million.Excludingtheimpactof(i)thenon-taxablegainof$65milliononthe

WilmingtonTrustacquisitionand(ii)the$12millionaccrualreversalrelatedtotheresolutionwithtaxing

authoritiesofpreviouslyuncertaintaxpositions,theCompany™seffectivetaxratefor2011wouldhavebeen

32.5%.TheCompany™seffectivetaxrateinfutureperiodswillbeaffectedbytheresultsofoperations
allocatedtothevarioustaxjurisdictionswithinwhichtheCompanyoperates,anychangeinincometaxlaws

orregulationswithinthosejurisdictions,andinterpretationsofincometaxregulationsthatdifferfromthe

Company™sinterpretationsbyanyofvarioustaxauthoritiesthatmayexaminetaxreturnsfiledbyM&Tor

anyofitssubsidiaries.Informationaboutamountsaccruedforuncertaintaxpositionsandareconciliation

ofincometaxexpensetotheamountcomputedbyapplyingthestatutoryfederalincometaxratetopre-tax

incomeisprovidedinnote13ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
InternationalActivities
TheCompany™snetinvestmentininternationalassetstotaled$226millionatDecember31,2013and

$179millionatDecember31,2012.Suchassetsincluded$192millionand$149million,respectively,of

loanstoforeignborrowers.DepositsintheCompany™sofficeintheCaymanIslandstotaled$323millionat

December31,2013and$1.0billionatDecember31,2012.TheCompanyusessuchdepositstofacilitate

customerdemandandasanalternativetoshort-termborrowingswhenthecostsofsuchdepositsseem

reasonable.LoansanddepositsatM&TBank™scommercialbranchinOntario,CanadaasofDecember31,

2013were$94millionand$25million,respectively,comparedwith$139millionand$22million,

respectively,atDecember31,2012.TheCompanyalsoofferstrust-relatedservicesinEuropeandthe

CaymanIslands.Revenuesfromprovidingsuchservicesduring2013,2012and2011wereapproximately

$26million,$24millionand$15million,respectively.
Liquidity,MarketRisk,andInterestRateSensitivity
Asafinancialintermediary,theCompanyisexposedtovariousrisks,includingliquidityandmarketrisk.

LiquidityreferstotheCompany™sabilitytoensurethatsufficientcashflowandliquidassetsareavailableto

satisfycurrentandfutureobligations,includingdemandsforloansanddepositwithdrawals,funding

operatingcosts,andothercorporatepurposes.Liquidityriskariseswheneverthematuritiesoffinancial

instrumentsincludedinassetsandliabilitiesdiffer.
ThemostsignificantsourceoffundingfortheCompanyiscoredeposits,whicharegeneratedfroma
largebaseofconsumer,corporateandinstitutionalcustomers.Thatcustomerbasehas,overthepastseveral

years,becomemoregeographicallydiverseasaresultofacquisitionsandexpansionoftheCompany™s

businesses.Nevertheless,theCompanyfacescompetitioninofferingproductsandservicesfromalarge

arrayoffinancialmarketparticipants,includingbanks,thrifts,mutualfunds,securitiesdealersandothers.
77Coredepositsfinanced88%oftheCompany™searningassetsatDecember31,2013,comparedwith86%
and83%atDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.Theincreasesintheamountofearningassets

financedbycoredepositsatthe2013and2012year-endsascomparedwithDecember31,2011reflect

higherlevelsofcoredeposits,largelyduetohighernoninterest-bearingdeposits.
TheCompanysupplementsfundingprovidedthroughcoredepositswithvariousshort-termand
long-termwholesaleborrowings,includingfederalfundspurchasedandsecuritiessoldunderagreementsto

repurchase,brokeredcertificatesofdeposit,CaymanIslandsofficedepositsandlonger-termborrowings.At

December31,2013,M&TBankhadshort-termandlong-termcreditfacilitieswiththeFHLBsaggregating

$8.3billion.OutstandingborrowingsunderFHLBcreditfacilitiestotaled$29millionand$30millionat

December31,2013and2012,respectively.Suchborrowingsweresecuredbyloansandinvestment

securities.M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.hadavailablelinesofcreditwiththeFederalReserve

Bankthataggregatedapproximately$11.8billionatDecember31,2013.Theamountsofthoselinesare

dependentuponthebalancesofloansandsecuritiespledgedascollateral.Therewerenoborrowings

outstandingundersuchlinesofcreditatDecember31,2013orDecember31,2012.Duringthefirstquarter

of2013,M&TBankinstitutedaBankNoteProgramwherebyM&TBankmayofferupto$5billionin

unsecuredseniorandsubordinatednotes.DuringMarch2013,three-yearfloatingrateseniornotesdue

March2016wereissuedfor$300millionandfive-year1.45%fixedrateseniornotesdueMarch2018were

issuedfor$500million.Thefloatingratenotespayinterestquarterlyatratesthatareindexedtothethree-

monthLIBOR.TherateatDecember31,2013was.54%.Inaddition,inJanuary2014M&TBankissuedan

additional$1.5billionofseniornotes,ofwhich$750millionmaturein2017and$750millionmaturein

2019.TheCompanyhas,fromtimetotime,issuedsubordinatedcapitalnotesandjuniorsubordinated
debenturesassociatedwithtrustpreferredsecuritiestoprovideliquidityandenhanceregulatorycapitalratios.

SuchnotesgenerallyqualifyundertheFederalRese
rveBoard™scurrentrisk-basedcapitalguidelinesfor
inclusionintheCompany™scapital.However,inJuly2013,Federalregulatorsissuedafinalruleto

comprehensivelyrevisethecapitalframeworkfortheU
.S.bankingsector.Underthatrule,trustpreferred
securitieswillbephasedoutfrominclusioninTier1capitalsuchthatin2015only25%ofthen-outstanding

securitieswillbeincludedinTier1capitalandbeginningin2016noneofthesecuritieswillbeincludedinTier

1capital.TheamountsexcludedfromTier1capitalwillbeincludableintotalcapital.Informationaboutthe

Company™sborrowingsisincludedinnote9ofNotestoFinancialStatements.InFebruary2014,theCompany

willredeem$350millionof8.50%juniorsubordinateddebenturesassociatedwithtrustpreferredsecurities

andissued$350millionofpreferredstockthatqualifiesasregulatorycapital.
TheCompanyhasinformalandsometimesreciprocalsourcesoffundingavailablethroughvarious
arrangementsforunsecuredshort-termborrowingsfromawidegroupofbanksandotherfinancial

institutions.Short-termfederalfundsborrowingswere$169millionand$939millionatDecember31,2013

and2012,respectively.Ingeneral,thoseborrowingswereunsecuredandmaturedonthenextbusinessday.

Inadditiontosatisfyingcustomerdemand,CaymanIslandsofficedepositsandbrokeredcertificatesof

depositmaybeusedbytheCompanyasanalternativetoshort-termborrowings.CaymanIslandsoffice

depositsalsogenerallymatureonthenextbusinessdayandtotaled$323millionand$1.0billionat

December31,2013and2012,respectively.OutstandingbrokeredtimedepositsatDecember31,2013and

December31,2012were$26millionand$462million,respectively.AtDecember31,2013,theweighted-

averageremainingtermtomaturityofbrokeredtimedepositswas2months.TheCompanyalsohas

brokeredNOWandbrokeredmoney-marketdepositaccountswhichtotaled$1.0billionand$1.1billionat

December31,2013and2012,respectively.
TheCompany™sabilitytoobtainfundingfromtheseorothersourcescouldbenegativelyimpacted
shouldtheCompanyexperienceasubstantialdeteriorationinitsfinancialconditionoritsdebtratings,or

shouldtheavailabilityofshort-termfundingbecomerestrictedduetoadisruptioninthefinancialmarkets.

TheCompanyattemptstoquantifysuchcredit-eventriskbymodelingscenariosthatestimatetheliquidity

impactresultingfromashort-termratingsdowngradeovervariousgradinglevels.Suchimpactisestimated

byattemptingtomeasuretheeffectonavailableunsecuredlinesofcredit,availablecapacityfromsecured

borrowingsourcesandsecuritizableassets.InformationaboutthecreditratingsofM&TandM&TBankis

presentedintable16.AdditionalinformationregardingthetermsandmaturitiesofalloftheCompany™s

short-termandlong-termborrowingsisprovidedinnote9ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Inadditionto

depositsandborrowings,othersourcesofliquidityincludematuritiesofinvestmentsecuritiesandother

earningassets,repaymentsofloansandinvestmentsecurities,andcashgeneratedfromoperations,suchas

feescollectedforservices.
78Table16
DEBTRATINGS
Moody™sStandardandPoor™s
FitchM&TBankCorporation
Seniordebt
...................................................A3AŒAŒ
Subordinateddebt
.............................................Baa1BBB+BBB+
M&TBank
Short-termdeposits
............................................Prime-1A-1F1
Long-termdeposits
............................................A2AA
Seniordebt
...................................................A2AAŒ
Subordinateddebt
.............................................A3AŒ
BBB+CertaincustomersoftheCompanyobtainfinancingthroughtheissuanceofvariableratedemand
bonds(ﬁVRDBsﬂ).TheVRDBsaregenerallyenhancedbylettersofcreditprovidedbyM&TBank.M&T

BankoftentimesactsasremarketingagentfortheVRDBsand,atitsdiscretion,mayfromtime-to-timeown

someoftheVRDBswhilesuchinstrumentsareremarketed.Whenthisoccurs,theVRDBsareclassifiedas

tradingassetsintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheet.Nevertheless,M&TBankisnotcontractually

obligatedtopurchasetheVRDBs.ThevalueofVRDBsintheCompany™stradingaccounttotaled

$25millionand$7millionatDecember31,2013and2012,respectively.ThetotalamountofVRDBs

outstandingbackedbyM&TBanklettersofcreditwas$1.7billionand$1.9billionatDecember31,2013

and2012,respectively.M&TBankalsoservesasremarketingagentformostofthosebonds.
Table17
MATURITYDISTRIBUTIONOFSELECTEDLOANS(a)
December31,2013
Demand20142015-2018After2018
(Inthousands)
Commercial,financial,etc.
....................$6,846,809$2,529,923$7,041,403$952,949
RealestateŠconstruction
....................128,0351,789,1202,074,445332,725
Total....................................$6,974,844$4,319,043$9,115,848$1,285,674
Floatingoradjustableinterestrates
..............$7,535,569$883,098
Fixedorpredeterminedinterestrates
............1,
580,279402,576
Total....................................$9,115,848$1,285,674
(a)Thedatadonotincludenonaccrualloans.
TheCompanyentersintocontractualobligationsinthenormalcourseofbusinesswhichrequire
futurecashpayments.ThecontractualamountsandtimingofthosepaymentsasofDecember31,2013are

summarizedintable18.Off-balancesheetcommitmentstocustomersmayimpactliquidity,including

commitmentstoextendcredit,standbylettersofcredit,commerciallettersofcredit,financialguarantees

andindemnificationcontracts,andcommitmentstosellrealestateloans.Becausemanyofthese

commitmentsorcontractsexpirewithoutbeingfundedinwholeorinpart,thecontractamountsarenot

necessarilyindicativeoffuturecashflows.Furtherdiscussionofthesecommitmentsisprovidedinnote21

ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Table18summarizestheCompany™sothercommitmentsasof

December31,2013andthetimingoftheexpirationofsuchcommitments.
79Table18
CONTRACTUALOBLIGATIONSANDOTHERCOMMITMENTS
December31,2013
LessThanOne
YearOnetoThree
YearsThreetoFive
YearsOverFive
YearsTotal(Inthousands)
Paymentsdueforcontractualobligations
Timedeposits
.......................$
2,618,456$622,611$274,652$8,119$3,523,838
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
.......322,746ŠŠŠ322,746
Federalfundspurchasedand
agreementstorepurchasesecurities...260,455ŠŠŠ260,455
Long-termborrowings
................22,0211,110,8311,819,8622,156,1565,108,870
Operatingleases
.....................85,923146,50296,386135,156463,967
Other..............................51,76224,2279,8196,73892,546
Total..............................$
3,361,363$1,904,171$2,200,719$2,306,169$9,772,422
Othercommitments
Commitmentstoextendcredit
.........$
8,372,289$5,878,613$4,023,245$3,200,638$21,474,785
Standbylettersofcredit
...............1,631,0441,486,078396,53786,8693,600,528
Commerciallettersofcredit
...........12,20440,736344Š53,284
Financialguaranteesand
indemnificationcontracts
...........137,277268,483372,5681,679,3052,457,633
Commitmentstosellrealestateloans
....852,6492,007ŠŠ854,656
Total..............................$11,005,463$7,675,917$4,792,694$4,966,812$28,440,886
M&T™sprimarysourceoffundstopayforoperatingexpenses,shareholderdividendsandtreasury
stockrepurchaseshashistoricallybeenthereceiptofdividendsfromitsbankingsubsidiaries,whichare

subjecttovariousregulatorylimitations.DividendsfromanybankingsubsidiarytoM&Tarelimitedbythe

amountofearningsofthebankingsubsidiaryinthecurrentyearandthetwoprecedingyears.Forpurposes

ofthattest,atDecember31,2013approximately$1.11billionwasavailableforpaymentofdividendsto

M&Tfrombankingsubsidiaries.Thesehistoricsourcesofcashflowhavebeenaugmentedinthepastbythe

issuanceoftrustpreferredsecuritiesandseniornotespayable.Informationregardingtrustpreferred

securitiesandtherelatedjuniorsubordinateddebenturesisincludedinnote9ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.M&Talsomaintainsa$30millionlineofcreditwithanunaffiliatedcommercialbank,ofwhich

therewerenoborrowingsoutstandingatDecember31,2013.Asimilar$30millionlineofcreditwasentirely

availableforborrowingatDecember31,2012.
80Table19
MATURITYANDTAXABLE-EQUIVALENTYIELDOFINVESTMENTSECURITIES
December31,2013
OneYear
orLess
OnetoFive
YearsFivetoTen
YearsOverTen
YearsTotal(Dollarsinthousands)
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale(a)

U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
Carryingvalue
........................................$
28,713$7,328$1,735$Š$37,776
Yield................................................1.58%1.86%1.58%Š1.63%
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
Carryingvalue
........................................1,0732,1374,5393,06210,811
Yield................................................6.22%6.53%4.63%4.21%5.04%
Mortgage-backedsecurities(b)
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
Carryingvalue
......................................136,714581,180742,0762,705,1164,165,086
Yield..............................................3.38%3.38%3.38%3.39%3.39%
Privatelyissued
Carryingvalue
......................................43909
1,7081,850
Yield..............................................3.00%4.42%4.28%Š.31%
Otherdebtsecurities
Carryingvalue
........................................250
7,1521,741174,025183,168
Yield................................................2.73%2.96%4.55%3.77%3.74%
Equitysecurities
Carryingvalue
........................................ŠŠŠŠ
133,095Yield................................................ŠŠŠŠ
.57%Totalinvestmentsecuritiesavailableforsale
Carryingvalue
........................................166,793597,887750,1002,883,9114,531,786
Yield................................................3.09%3.37%3.39%3.41%3.31%
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
Carryingvalue
........................................19,48568,71381,486Š169,684
Yield................................................4.07%5.06%5.71%Š5.26%
Mortgage-backedsecurities(b)
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
Carryingvalue
......................................105,577463,333683,2042,315,7913,567,905
Yield..............................................3.07%3.07%3.07%3.05%3.06%
Privatelyissued
Carryingvalue
......................................6,97028,60037,756146,302219,628
Yield..............................................2.53%2.55%2.59%2.79%2.72%
Otherdebtsecurities
Carryingvalue
........................................ŠŠŠ
8,9138,913
Yield................................................ŠŠŠ
4.99%4.99%
Totalinvestmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity
Carryingvalue
........................................132,032560,646802,4462,471,0063,966,130
Yield................................................3.19%3.29%3.31%3.04%3.14%
Otherinvestmentsecurities
................................ŠŠŠŠ
298,581Totalinvestmentsecurities
Carryingvalue
........................................$298,825$1,158,533$1,552,546$5,354,917$8,796,497
Yield................................................3.13%3.33%3.35%3.24%3.12%
(a)Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsalearepresentedatestimatedfairvalue.Yieldsonsuchsecuritiesarebasedon
amortizedcost.
(b)Maturitiesarereflectedbaseduponcontractualpaymentsdue.Actualmaturitiesareexpectedtobesignificantly
shorterasaresultofloanrepaymentsintheunderlyingmortgagepools.
81Table20
MATURITYOFDOMESTICCERTIFICATESOFDEPOSITANDTIMEDEPOSITS
WITHBALANCESOF$100,000ORMORE
December31,2013
(Inthousands)
Under3months
.............................................................$279,1703to6months
...............................................................156,1206to12months
..............................................................213,428Over12months
.............................................................294,292Total....................................................................$943,010ManagementcloselymonitorstheCompany™sliquiditypositiononanongoingbasisforcompliance
withinternalpoliciesandbelievesthatavailablesourcesofliquidityareadequatetomeetfundingneeds

anticipatedinthenormalcourseofbusiness.Managementdoesnotanticipateengaginginanyactivities,

eithercurrentlyorinthelong-term,forwhichadequatefundingwouldnotbeavailableandwouldtherefore

resultinasignificantstrainonliquidityateitherM&Toritssubsidiarybanks.Asnotedpreviously,banking

regulatorshaveproposedrulesfortheU.S.versionoftheBaselCommittee™sLCRthatcouldimpactthelevel

oftheCompany™sliquidassets.TheCompanyhastakenstepstoimproveitsliquidityandwilltakefurther

action,asnecessary,tocomplywiththefinalregulationswhentheytakeeffect.
Marketriskistheriskoflossfromadversechangesinthemarketpricesand/orinterestratesofthe
Company™sfinancialinstruments.TheprimarymarketrisktheCompanyisexposedtoisinterestraterisk.

InterestrateriskarisesfromtheCompany™scorebankingactivitiesoflendinganddeposit-taking,because

assetsandliabilitiesrepriceatdifferenttimesandbydifferentamountsasinterestrateschange.Asaresult,net

interestincomeearnedbytheCompanyissubjecttotheeffectsofchanginginterestrates.TheCompany

measuresinterestrateriskbycalculatingthevariabilityofnetinterestincomeinfutureperiodsundervarious

interestratescenariosusingprojectedbalancesforearningassets,interest-bearingliabilitiesandderivatives

usedtohedgeinterestraterisk.Management™sphilosophytowardinterestrateriskmanagementistolimitthe

variabilityofnetinterestincome.Thebalancesoffinancialinstrumentsusedintheprojectionsarebasedon

expectedgrowthfromforecastedbusinessopportunit
ies,anticipatedprepaymentsofloansandinvestment
securities,andexpectedmaturitiesofinvestmentsecu
rities,loansanddeposits.Managementusesaﬁvalueof
equityﬂmodeltosupplementthemodelingtechniquedescribedabove.Thosesupplementalanalysesarebased

ondiscountedcashflowsassociatedwithon-andoff-ba
lancesheetfinancialinstruments.Suchanalysesare
modeledtoreflectchangesininterestratesandprovidemanagementwithalong-terminterestrateriskmetric.

TheCompanyhasenteredintointerestrateswapagreementstohelpmanageexposuretointerestraterisk.At

December31,2013,theaggregatenotionalamountofinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintoforinterest

rateriskmanagementpurposeswas$1.4billion.Informationaboutinterestrateswapagreementsenteredinto

forinterestrateriskmanagementpurposesisincludedhereinundertheheadingﬁNetInterestIncome/Lending

andFundingActivitiesﬂandinnote18ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
TheCompany™sRiskManagementCommittee,whichincludesmembersofseniormanagement,
monitorsthesensitivityoftheCompany™snetinterestincometochangesininterestrateswiththeaidofa

computermodelthatforecastsnetinterestincomeunderdifferentinterestratescenarios.Inmodeling

changinginterestrates,theCompanyconsidersdifferentyieldcurveshapesthatconsiderbothparallel(that

is,simultaneouschangesininterestratesateachpointontheyieldcurve)andnon-parallel(thatis,allowing

interestratesatpointsontheyieldcurvetovarybydifferentamounts)shiftsintheyieldcurve.Inutilizing

themodel,market-impliedforwardinterestratesoverthesubsequenttwelvemonthsaregenerallyusedto

determineabaseinterestratescenarioforthenetinterestincomesimulation.Thatcalculatedbasenet

interestincomeisthencomparedtotheincomecalculatedunderthevaryinginterestratescenarios.The

modelconsiderstheimpactofongoinglendinganddeposit-gatheringactivities,aswellasinterrelationships

inthemagnitudeandtimingoftherepricingoffinancialinstruments,includingtheeffectofchanging

interestratesonexpectedprepaymentsandmaturities.Whendeemedprudent,managementhastaken

actionstomitigateexposuretointerestrateriskthroughtheuseofon-oroff-balancesheetfinancial

instrumentsandintendstodosointhefuture.Possibleactionsinclude,butarenotlimitedto,changesin

thepricingofloananddepositproducts,modifyingthecompositionofearningassetsandinterest-bearing

liabilities,andaddingto,modifyingorterminatingexistinginterestrateswapagreementsorotherfinancial

instrumentsusedforinterestrateriskmanagementpurposes.
82Table21displaysasofDecember31,2013and2012theestimatedimpactonnetinterestincome
fromnon-tradingfinancialinstrumentsinthebasescenariodescribedaboveresultingfromparallelchanges

ininterestratesacrossrepricingcategoriesduringthefirstmodelingyear.
Table21
SENSITIVITYOFNETINTERESTINCOMETOCHANGESININTERESTRATES
CalculatedIncrease
(Decrease)inProjected
NetInterestIncome
December31
ChangesinInterestRates
20132012(Inthousands)
+200basispoints
......................................................$
245,089$210,030
+100basispoints
......................................................134,188117,198
Œ100basispoints
......................................................(72,755)(69,687)
Œ200basispoints
......................................................(100,543)(90,333)
TheCompanyutilizedmanyassumptionstocalculatetheimpactthatchangesininterestratesmay
haveonnetinterestincome.Themoresignificantofthoseassumptionsincludedtherateofprepaymentsof

mortgage-relatedassets,cashflowsfromderivativeandotherfinancialinstrumentsheldfornon-trading

purposes,loananddepositvolumesandpricing,anddepositmaturities.Inthescenariospresented,the

Companyalsoassumedgradualchangesinratesduringatwelve-monthperiodof100and200basispoints,

ascomparedwiththeassumedbasescenario.Intheeventthata100or200basispointratechangecannot

beachieved,theapplicableratechangesarelimitedtolesseramountssuchthatinterestratescannotbeless

thanzero.Theassumptionsusedininterestratesensitivitymodelingareinherentlyuncertainand,asa

result,theCompanycannotpreciselypredicttheimpactofchangesininterestratesonnetinterestincome.

Actualresultsmaydiffersignificantlyfromthosepresentedduetothetiming,magnitudeandfrequencyof

changesininterestratesandchangesinmarketconditionsandinterestratedifferentials(spreads)between

maturity/repricingcategories,aswellasanyactions,suchasthosepreviouslydescribed,whichmanagement

maytaketocountersuchchanges.
Table22presentscumulativetotalsofnetassets(liabilities)repricingonacontractualbasiswithin
thespecifiedtimeframes,asadjustedfortheimpactofinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintofor

interestrateriskmanagementpurposes.Managementbelievesthatthismeasuredoesnotappropriately

depictinterestraterisksincechangesininterestratesdonotnecessarilyaffectallcategoriesofearningassets

andinterest-bearingliabilitiesequallynor,asassumedinthetable,onthecontractualmaturityorrepricing

date.Furthermore,thisstaticpresentationofinterestrateriskfailstoconsidertheeffectofongoinglending

anddepositgatheringactivities,projectedchangesinbalancesheetcompositionoranysubsequentinterest

rateriskmanagementactivitiestheCompanyislikelytoimplement.
83Table22
CONTRACTUALREPRICINGDATA
December31,2013
ThreeMonths
orLess
FourtoTwelve
MonthsOneto
FiveYears
AfterFiveYears
Total(Dollarsinthousands)
Loansandleases,net
.............$39,467,322$4,249,463$10,464,608$9,891,766$64,073,159
Investmentsecurities
............426,18549,344213,8858,107,0838,796,497
Otherearningassets
.............1,835,447600100Š1,836,147
Totalearningassets
..............41,728,9544,299,40710,678,59317,998,84974,705,803
NOWaccounts
.................1,989,441ŠŠŠ1,989,441
Savingsdeposits
.................36,621,580ŠŠŠ36,621,580
Timedeposits
..................1,000,4151,618,041897,2638,1193,523,838
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice..223,68299,064ŠŠ322,746
Totalinterest-bearingdeposits
.....39,835,1181,717,105897,2638,11942,457,605
Short-termborrowings
...........260,455ŠŠŠ260,455
Long-termborrowings
...........609,49719,5602,886,5951,593,2185,108,870
Totalinterest-bearingliabilities
....40,705,0701,736,6653,783,8581,601,33747,826,930
Interestrateswaps
...............(1,400,000)Š1,400,000ŠŠ
Periodicgap
....................$
(376,116)$2,562,742$8,294,735$16,397,512
Cumulativegap
.................(376,116)2,186,62610,481,36126,878,873
Cumulativegapasa%oftotal
earningassets
.................(0.5)%2.9%14.0%36.0%
ChangesinfairvalueoftheCompany™sfinancialinstrumentscanalsoresultfromalackoftrading
activityforsimilarinstrumentsinthefinancialmarkets.Thatimpactismostnotableonthevaluesassigned

totheCompany™sinvestmentsecurities.Informationaboutthefairvaluationofsuchsecuritiesispresented

hereinundertheheadingﬁCapitalﬂandinnotes3and20ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
TheCompanyengagesintradingactivitiestomeetthefinancialneedsofcustomersandtofundthe
Company™sobligationsundercertaindeferredcompensationplans.Financialinstrumentsutilizedintrading

activitiesconsistpredominantlyofinterestratecontracts,suchasswapagreements,andforwardandfutures

contractsrelatedtoforeigncurrencies,buthavealsoincludedinvestmentsinU.S.Treasuryandother

governmentsecurities,mutualfundsand,aspreviouslydescribed,alimitednumberofVRDBs.The

Companygenerallymitigatestheforeigncurrencyandinterestrateriskassociatedwithtradingactivitiesby

enteringintooffsettingtradingpositions.Thefairvaluesoftheoffsettingtradingpositionsassociatedwith

interestratecontractsandforeigncurrencyandotheroptionandfuturescontractsarepresentedinnote18

ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Theamountsofgrossandnettradingpositions,aswellasthetypeof

tradingactivitiesconductedbytheCompany,aresubjecttoawell-definedseriesofpotentiallossexposure

limitsestablishedbymanagementandapprovedbyM&T™sBoardofDirectors.However,aswithanynon-

governmentguaranteedfinancialinstrument,theCompanyisexposedtocreditriskassociatedwith

counterpartiestotheCompany™stradingactivities.
Thenotionalamountsofinterestratecontractsenteredintofortradingpurposestotaled
$17.4billionatDecember31,2013and$15.5billionatDecember31,2012.Thenotionalamountsofforeign

currencyandotheroptionandfuturescontractsenteredintofortradingpurposeswere$1.4billionand

$869millionatDecember31,2013and2012,respectively.Althoughthenotionalamountsofthesetrading

contractsarenotrecordedintheconsolidatedbalancesheet,thefairvaluesofallfinancialinstrumentsused

fortradingactivitiesarerecordedintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Thefairvaluesofalltradingaccount

assetsandliabilitieswere$376millionand$250million,respectively,atDecember31,2013and

$489millionand$374million,respectively,atDecember31,2012.Includedintradingaccountassetsat

December31,2013and2012were$29millionand$36million,respectively,ofassetsrelatedtodeferred

compensationplans.Changesinthefairvalueofsuchassetsarerecordedasﬁtradingaccountandforeign

exchangegainsﬂintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.Includedinﬁotherliabilitiesﬂintheconsolidated
84balancesheetatDecember31,2013and2012were$31millionand$30million,respectively,ofliabilities
relatedtodeferredcompensationplans.Changesinthebalancesofsuchliabilitiesduetothevaluationof

allocatedinvestmentoptionstowhichtheliabilitiesareindexedarerecordedinﬁothercostsofoperationsﬂ

intheconsolidatedstatementofincome.
GiventheCompany™spolicies,limitsandpositions,managementbelievesthatthepotentialloss
exposuretotheCompanyresultingfrommarketriskassociatedwithtradingactivitieswasnotmaterial,

however,aspreviouslynoted,theCompanyisexposedtocreditriskassociatedwithcounterpartiesto

transactionsrelatedtotheCompany™stradingactivities.AdditionalinformationabouttheCompany™suseof

derivativefinancialinstrumentsinitstradingactivitiesisincludedinnote18ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.CapitalShareholders™equitywas$11.3billionatDecember31,
2013andrepresented13.28%oftotalassets,compared
with$10.2billionor12.29%atDecember31,2012and$9.3billionor11.90%atDecember31,2011.
Includedinshareholders™equitywaspreferredstockwithfinancialstatementcarryingvaluesof$882
millionatDecember31,2013and$873millionatDecember31,2012.Asnotedearlier,theU.S.Treasury

completedapublicofferingofitsholdingofM&TSeriesAandSeriesCpreferredstockinAugust2012,

resultinginM&T™sexitfromtheTARP.AtDecember31,2013and2012,preferredstockincluded$382

millionand$373million,respectively,forSeriesAandSeriesCFixedRateCumulativePerpetualPreferred

Stock.Theredemptionvalueofthoseseriesofstockwas$382millionateachofthosedates.Inconjunction

withtheU.S.Treasury™spublicofferingofitsholdingofM&TSeriesAandSeriesCpreferredstock,M&T

modifiedcertainofthetermsoftheSeriesAandSeriesCPreferredStock.Themodificationsrelatedtothe

dividendrateonthepreferredsharesattheresetdates,whichwasoriginallysettochangeto9%on

November15,2013fortheSeriesCpreferredsharesandonFebruary15,2014fortheSeriesApreferred

shares.Ineachcase,thedividendratechangedto6.375%onNovember15,2013ratherthantothe9%in

theoriginalterms.TheothermodificationrelatedtoM&TagreeingtonotredeemtheSeriesAandSeriesC

preferredsharesuntilonorafterNovember15,2018,exceptthatifaneventoccurssuchthatthesharesno

longerqualifyasTier1capitalM&Tmayredeemalloftheshareswithin90daysfollowingthatoccurrence.

OnMay31,2011,M&Tissued50,000sharesofSeriesDPerpetual6.875%Non-CumulativePreferredStock,

parvalue$1.00pershareandliquidationpreferenceof$10,000pershare.HoldersofSeriesDpreferred

stockareentitledtoreceive,onlywhen,asandifdeclaredbytheBoardofDirectors,non-cumulativecash

dividendsatanannualrateof6.875%,payablesemi-annuallyinarrears.TheSeriesDpreferredstockis

redeemableonorafterJune15,2016inwholeorinpartatparplusanydeclaredbutunpaiddividends.

Notwithstandingtheredemptionprovisionsnotedandsubjecttoregulatoryapproval,M&Tmayredeemall

oftheoutstandingsharesofSeriesDpreferredstockifaregulatorycapitaltreatmenteventtakesplace

wherebythefullliquidationvalueofthesharesnolongerqualifiesasTier1capital.DuringFebruary2014,

M&Tissued350,000sharesofSeriesEPerpetualFixed-to-FloatingRateNon-CumulativePreferredStock,

parvalue$1.00pershareandliquidationpreferenceof$1,000pershare.Furtherinformationconcerning

M&T™spreferredstockcanbefoundinnote10ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Commonshareholders™equitywas$10.4billion,or$79.81pershare,atDecember31,2013,
comparedwith$9.3billion,or$72.73pershare,atDecember31,2012and$8.4billion,or$66.82pershare,

atDecember31,2011.Tangibleequitypercommonshare,whichexcludesgoodwillandcoredepositand

otherintangibleassetsandapplicabledeferredtaxbalances,was$52.45atDecember31,2013,compared

with$44.61and$37.79atDecember31,2012and2011,respectively.TheCompany™sratiooftangible

commonequitytotangibleassetswas8.39%atDecember31,2013,comparedwith7.20%and6.40%at

December31,2012and2011,respectively.Reconciliationsoftotalcommonshareholders™equityand

tangiblecommonequityandtotalassetsandtangibleassetsasofDecember31,2013,2012and2011are

presentedintable2.During2013,2012and2011,theratioofaveragetotalshareholders™equitytoaverage

totalassetswas12.82%,12.13%and12.17%,respectively.Theratioofaveragecommonshareholders™equity

toaveragetotalassetswas11.77%,11.04%and11.09%in2013,2012and2011,respectively.
Shareholders™equityreflectsaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincomeorloss,whichincludesthe
netafter-taximpactofunrealizedgainsorlossesoninvestmentsecuritiesclassifiedasavailableforsale,

unrealizedlossesonheld-to-maturitysecuritiesforwhichanother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargehas

beenrecognized,gainsorlossesassociatedwithinterestrateswapagreementsdesignatedascashflow

hedges,foreigncurrencytranslationadjustmentsandadjustmentstoreflectthefundedstatusofdefined

benefitpensionandotherpostretirementplans.Netunrealizedgainsoninvestmentsecurities,netof
85applicabletaxeffect,were$34million,or$.26percommonshare,atDecember31,2013,comparedwithnet
unrealizedgainsof$37million,or$.29percommonshare,atDecember31,2012,andnetunrealizedlosses

of$78million,or$.62percommonshare,atDecember31,2011.Informationaboutunrealizedgainsand

lossesasofDecember31,2013and2012isincludedinnote3ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
ReflectedinnetunrealizedgainsatDecember31,2013werepre-taxeffectunrealizedlossesof
$40milliononavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritieswithanamortizedcostof$1.8billionandpre-tax

effectunrealizedgainsof$127milliononsecuritieswithanamortizedcostof$2.6billion.Thepre-taxeffect

unrealizedlossesreflect$19millionoflossesontrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutions

havinganamortizedcostof$123millionandanestimatedfairvalueof$104million(generallyconsidered

Level2valuations).FurtherinformationconcerningtheCompany™svaluationsofavailable-for-sale

investmentsecuritiesisprovidedinnote20ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Inthesecondquarterof2013,theCompanysoldsubstantiallyallofitsprivatelyissuedresidential
MBSthatwereclassifiedasavailableforsaleandrecordedapre-taxlossof$46million.Thoseprivately

issuedMBSpreviouslyheldbytheCompanyweregenerallycollateralizedbyprimeandAlt-Aresidential

mortgageloans.Thesales,whichwereinresponsetochangingregulatorycapitalandliquiditystandards,

resultedinimprovedliquidityandregulatorycapitalratiosfortheCompany.Furtherinformationonthe

salesisprovidedinnote3ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
TheCompanyassessesimpairmentlossesonprivatelyissuedMBSintheheld-to-maturityportfolio
byperforminginternalmodelingtoestimatebond-specificcashflowsthatreflecttheplacementofthebond

intheoverallsecuritizationstructureandtheremainingsubordinationlevels.Asaresult,theCompanydid

notrecognizeanyother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargerelatedtoMBSintheheld-to-maturity

portfolioduring2013.Intotal,atDecember31,2013and2012,theCompanyhadinitsheld-to-maturity

portfolioprivatelyissuedMBSwithanamortizedcostbasisof$220millionand$242million,respectively,

andafairvalueof$159millionand$148million,respectively.AtDecember31,2013,93%oftheMBSwere

inthemostseniortrancheofthesecuritizationstructurewith36%beingindependentlyratedasinvestment

grade.TheMBShadaweighted-averagecreditenhancementof20%atDecember31,2013,calculatedby

dividingtheremainingunpaidprincipalbalanceofbondssubordinatetothebondsownedbytheCompany

plusanyovercollateralizationremaininginthesecuritizationstructurebytheremainingunpaidprincipal

balanceofallbondsinthesecuritizationstructure.AllMBSintheheld-to-maturityportfoliohadacurrent

paymentstatusasofDecember31,2013.
Duringthefirstquarterof2013,theCompanyrecognized$10million(pre-tax)ofother-than-
temporaryimpairmentlossesrelatedtoprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesheldintheavailable-for-

saleportfolio.Inassessingimpairmentlossesfordebtsecurities,theCompanyperformedinternalmodeling

toestimatebond-specificcashflows,whichconsideredtheplacementofthebondintheoverall

securitizationstructureandtheremaininglevelsofsubordination.During2012and2011,theCompany

recognized$48million(pre-tax)and$77million(pre-tax),respectively,ofother-than-temporarylosses

relatedtoprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities.
AsofDecember31,2013,basedonareviewofeachoftheremainingsecuritiesintheinvestment
securitiesportfolio,theCompanyconcludedthatthedeclinesinthevaluesofanysecuritiescontainingan

unrealizedlossweretemporaryandthatanyadditionalother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargeswerenot

appropriate.ItispossiblethattheCompanymayberequiredtosellcertainofitscollateralizeddebtobligations

backedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesheldintheavailable-for-saleportfoliotocomplywiththeprovisionsofthe

VolckerRule.However,thefairvalueofsuchsecuritiespredominantlyexceededcarryingvalueat

December31,2013andtheCompanydidnotexpectthatitwouldrealizeanymateriallossesifitultimately

wasrequiredtosellsuchsecurities.Asofthatdate,theCompanydidnotintendtosellnorisitanticipatedthat

itwouldberequiredtosellanyofitsotherimpairedsecurities,thatis,wherefairvalueislessthanthecostbasis

ofthesecurity.TheCompanyintendstocontinuetocloselymonitortheperformanceofitssecuritiesbecause

changesintheirunderlyingcreditperformanceorothe
reventscouldcausethecostbasisofthosesecuritiesto
becomeother-than-temporarilyimpaired.However,becausetheunrealizedlossesonavailable-for-sale

investmentsecuritieshavegenerallyalreadybeenreflectedinthefinancialstatementvaluesforinvestment

securitiesandshareholders™equity,anyrecognitionofanother-than-temporarydeclineinvalueofthose

investmentsecuritieswouldnothaveamaterialeffectontheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialcondition.Any

other-than-temporaryimpairmentchargerelatedtohel
d-to-maturitysecuritieswouldresultinreductionsin
thefinancialstatementvaluesforinvestmentsecuritiesandshareholders™equity.Additionalinformation

concerningfairvaluemeasurementsandtheCompany™s
approachtotheclassificationofsuchmeasurements
isincludedinnote20oftheNotestoFinancialStatements.
86Adjustmentstoreflectthefundedstatusofdefinedbenefitpensionandotherpostretirementplans,
netofapplicabletaxeffect,reducedaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincomeby$98million,or$.75per

commonshare,atDecember31,2013,$277million,or$2.16percommonshare,atDecember31,2012,and

$278million,or$2.21percommonshare,atDecember31,2011.Thedecreaseinsuchadjustmentat

December31,2013ascomparedwithDecember31,2012and2011waspredominantlytheresultofa100

basispointincreaseinthediscountrateusedtomeasurethebenefitobligationsofthedefinedbenefitplans

atDecember31,2013ascomparedwithayearearlierandactualinvestmentreturnsinthequalifieddefined

benefitpensionplanthatwerehigherthanexpectedreturns.Informationaboutthefundedstatusofthe

Company™spensionandotherpostretirementbenefitplansisincludedinnote12ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.CashdividendsdeclaredonM&T™scommonstocktotaled$365millionin2013,comparedwith
$358millionand$350millionin2012and2011,respectively.Dividendspercommonsharetotaled$2.80in

eachof2013,2012and2011.Cashdividendsof$53millionineachof2013and2012and$48millionin

2011weredeclaredandpaidonpreferredstockinaccordancewiththetermsofeachseries.
TheCompanydidnotrepurchaseanysharesofitscommonstockin2013,2012or2011.

FederalregulatorsgenerallyrequirebankinginstitutionsunderthecurrentBaselIrulestomaintain
ﬁTier1capitalﬂandﬁtotalcapitalﬂratiosofatleast4%and8%,respectively,ofrisk-adjustedtotalassets.In

additiontotherisk-basedmeasures,Federalbankregulatorshavealsoimplementedaminimumﬁleverageﬂ

ratioguidelineof3%ofthequarterlyaverageoftotalassets.AtDecember31,2013,Tier1capitalincluded

trustpreferredsecuritiesof$1.2billionasdescribedinnote9ofNotestoFinancialStatementsandtotal

capitalfurtherincludedsubordinatedcapitalnotesof$1.4billion.Aspreviouslynoted,pursuanttothe

Dodd-FrankAct,trustpreferredsecuritieswillbephased-outofthedefinitionofTier1capitalofbank

holdingcompaniesbeginningin2015.ThecapitalratiosoftheCompanyanditsbankingsubsidiariesasof

December31,2013and2012arepresentedinnote23ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
FourthQuarterResults
Netincomeduringthefourthquarterof2013was$221million,comparedwith$296millionintheyear-

earlierquarter.Dilutedandbasicearningspercommonsharewere$1.56and$1.57,respectively,inthefinal

quarterof2013,comparedwith$2.16and$2.18ofdilutedandbasicearningspercommonshare,

respectively,inthecorrespondingquarterof2012.Onanannualizedbasis,theratesofreturnonaverage

assetsandaveragecommonshareholders™equityfortherecentquarterwere1.03%and7.99%,respectively,

comparedwith1.45%and12.10%,respectively,intheyear-earlierquarter.
Netoperatingincometotaled$228millionintherecentlycompletedquarter,comparedwith
$305millioninthefourthquarterof2012.Dilutednetoperatingearningspercommonsharewere$1.61

and$2.23inthefinalquartersof2013and2012,respectively.Theannualizednetoperatingreturnson

averagetangibleassetsandaveragetangiblecommonequityinthefourthquarterof2013were1.11%and

12.67%,respectively,comparedwith1.56%and20.46%,respectively,inthesimilarquarterof2012.Core

depositandotherintangibleassetamortization,aftertaxeffect,totaled$6millionand$8millioninthe

fourthquartersof2013and2012($.05and$.07perdilutedcommonshare),respectively.Reconciliationsof

GAAPresultswithnon-GAAPresultsforthequarterlyperiodsof2013and2012areprovidedintable24.
Netinterestincomeonataxable-equivalentbasistotaled$673millioninthefinal2013quarter,little
changedfrom$674millionintheyear-earlierquarter.An18basispointnarrowingofthenetinterest

margin,to3.56%intherecentquarterfrom3.74%in2012™sfourthquarter,wasoffsetbygrowthinaverage

earningassetsof$3.4billion.Thedeclineinthenetinterestmarginreflectsan11basispointdecreaseinthe

yieldonloansandtheimpactofhigherbalancesofinterest-bearingdepositsattheFederalReserveBankand

investmentsecuritieswhichhaveloweryieldsthanloans.Theincreaseinaverageearningassetswas

attributabletoa$2.7billionincreaseinaverageinterest-bearingdepositsheldattheFederalReserveBank

andhigherinvestmentsecuritiesbalancesof$2.1billion,partiallyoffsetbya$1.5billiondecreaseinaverage

loansandleases.Theincreaseintheinvestmentsecuritiesportfoliofromtheyear-earlierquarterreflectsthe

impactofpurchasesofGinnieMaeresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritiesandtheretentionofsimilar

securitiesresultingfrommortgagesecuritizationtransactionsduring2013,partiallyoffsetbymaturitiesand

paydownsofmortgage-backedsecuritiesandthesaleof$1.0billionofprivatelyissuedmortgage-backed

securitieslatein2013™ssecondquarter.Averagecommercialloanandleasebalanceswere$18.1billioninthe

recentquarter,up$1.1billionor6%from$17.0billioninthefinalquarterof2012.Commercialrealestate

loansaveraged$26.2billioninthefourthquarterof2013,up$899millionor4%from$25.3billioninthe

corresponding2012quarter.Thegrowthincommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloansreflects
87higherloandemandbycustomers.Averageresidentialrealestateloansoutstandingdeclined$2.1billionto
$9.0billionintherecentquarterfrom$11.1billioninthefourthquarterof2012.Includedintheresidential

realestateloanportfoliowereaveragebalancesofloansheldforsale,whichdeclinedto$463millioninthe

recentquarterfrom$997millioninthefourthquarterof2012,reflectinglowervolumesofloansoriginated

forsale.Thedecreaseinaverageresidentialrealestateloansoutstandingalsoreflectedtheimpactof

securitizationsinthesecondandthirdquartersof2013ofloanspreviouslyheldbytheCompanyinitsloan

portfolio.TheCompanysecuritizedapproximately$1.3billionofresidentialrealestateloansguaranteedby

theFHA,andasubstantialmajorityoftheresultingGinnieMaemortgage-backedsecuritieswereretained

bytheCompanyintheinvestmentsecuritiesportfolio.Consumerloansaveraged$10.2billionintherecent

quarter,down$1.4billionfrom$11.6billioninthelastquarterof2012.Thatdeclinewaslargelydueto

loweraveragebalancesofautomobileloans.InSeptember2013,theCompanysecuritizedandsold

approximately$1.4billionofautomobileloansheldinitsloanportfoliotoimproveitsregulatorycapital

ratiosandstrengthenitsliquidityandriskprofileasaresultofchangingregulatoryrequirements.Total

loansatDecember31,2013increased$414millionto$64.1billionfrom$63.7billionatSeptember30,2013.

Thatgrowthwasattributabletoincreasesincommercialloans,duelargelytoseasonally-higherautomobile

dealerfloorplanbalances.Theyieldonearningassetsinthefourthquarterof2013was3.92%,a25basis

pointdeclinefromtheyear-earlierquarter.Theratepaidoninterest-bearingliabilitiesdeclined11basis

pointsto.56%intherecentlycompletedquarterfrom.67%inthesimilar2012quarter.Theresultingnet

interestspreadwas3.36%inthefinalquarterof2013,14basispointslowerthan3.50%intheyear-earlier

quarter.Thatcompressionwaslargelyduetothechangedmixinearningassetsalreadynotedandthe11

basispointdeclineinloanyields.Thecontributionofnetinterest-freefundstotheCompany™snetinterest

marginwas.20%intherecentquarter,downfrom.24%intheyear-earlierquarter.Asaresult,the

Company™snetinterestmarginnarrowedto3.56%inthefourthquarterof2013from3.74%inthe

corresponding2012period.
Theprovisionforcreditlosseswas$42millionduringthethree-monthperiodendedDecember31,
2013,comparedwith$49millionintheyear-earlierperiod.Netcharge-offsofloanstotaled$42millioninthe

finalquarterof2013,representinganannualized.26%ofaverageloansandleasesoutstanding,comparedwith

$44millionor.27%duringthefourthquarterof2012.Netcharge-offsincluded:residentialrealestateloansof

$3millionintherecentlycompletedquarter,comparedwith$10millionin2012™sfourthquarter;net

recoveriesonloanstobuildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestatepropertiesof$2millioninthefinal2013

quarter,comparedwithnetcharge-offsof$8millionintheyear-earlierquarter;othercommercialrealestate

loansof$10millionin2013,comparedwith$1millionayearearlier;commercialloansof$21millionand

$3millionin2013and2012,respectively;andconsumerloansof$10millionintherecentquarter,compared

with$22millioninthe2012™sfourthquarter.Thehigherlevelofcommercialloancharge-offsintherecent

quarterreflectedahighervolumeofcharge-offs,noneofwhichindividuallyexceeded$5million.Reflectedin

netcharge-offsofconsumerloansforthefourthquar
terof2013wererecoveriesofpreviouslycharged-off
homeequitylineofcreditbalancesof$9millionrelatedtoaportfolioacquiredin2007.
Otherincomeaggregated$446millionintherecentquarter,comparedwith$453millionintheyear-
earlierquarter.Netlossesoninvestmentsecuritiesduringthefourthquarterof2012were$14million,due

toother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesrelatedtocertainoftheCompany™sprivatelyissuedmortgage-

backedsecurities.Therewerenogainsorlossesoninvestmentsecuritiesinthefourthquarterof2013.

Excludingtheimpactofthelossesoninvestmentsecuritiesinthefinal2012quarter,therecentquarter™s

declineinnoninterestincomewaspredominantlyduetolowermortgagebankingrevenues,partiallyoffset

byhighertrustincome.
Otherexpenseinthefourthquarterof2013totaled$743million,comparedwith$626millioninthe
year-earlierquarter.Includedinsuchamountsareexpensesconsideredtobeﬁnonoperatingﬂinnature

consistingofamortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsof$10millionand$14millioninthe

fourthquartersof2013and2012,respectively.Exclusiveofthosenonoperatingexpenses,noninterest

operatingexpenseswere$733millioninthefourthquarterof2013,upfrom$612millioninthe

correspondingquarterof2012.Thehigheroperatingexpensesintherecentlycompletedquarterreflect

increasedcostsforprofessionalserviceslargelyassociatedwithinvestmentsintheCompany™sinfrastructure

relatedtoBSA/AMLcompliance,capitalplanningandstresstesting,riskmanagement,andother

operationalinitiatives.Thoseincreasesamountedtoapproximately$50millionascomparedwiththefourth

quarterof2012.Inaddition,theCompanyreachedalegalsettlementofapreviouslydisclosedlawsuit

relatedtoissuesthatwereallegedtooccuratWilmingtonTrustCompanypriortoitsacquisitionbyM&T

thatledtoa$40millionincreaseintheCompany™sreserveforlitigationasofDecember31,2013.The
88higherlevelofexpensesintherecentquarterascomparedwiththeyear-earlierquarteralsoreflectssalaries
associatedwiththeCompany™sexpandedresidentialrealestateloansub-servicingactivities.TheCompany™s

efficiencyratioduringthefourthquarterof2013and2012was65.5%and53.6%,respectively.Table24

includesareconciliationofotherexpensetononinterestoperatingexpenseandthecalculationofthe

efficiencyratioforeachofthequartersof2013and2012.
SegmentInformation
InaccordancewithGAAP,theCompany™sreportablesegmentshavebeendeterminedbaseduponits

internalprofitabilityreportingsystem,whichisorganizedbystrategicbusinessunit.Certainstrategic

businessunitshavebeencombinedforsegmentinformationreportingpurposeswherethenatureofthe

productsandservices,thetypeofcustomer,andthedistributionofthoseproductsandservicesaresimilar.

ThereportablesegmentsareBusinessBanking,CommercialBanking,CommercialRealEstate,

DiscretionaryPortfolio,ResidentialMortgageBankingandRetailBanking.
ThefinancialinformationoftheCompany™ssegmentswascompiledutilizingtheaccountingpolicies
describedinnote22ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Themanagementaccountingpoliciesandprocesses

utilizedincompilingsegmentfinancialinformationarehighlysubjectiveand,unlikefinancialaccounting,

arenotbasedonauthoritativeguidancesimilartoGAAP.Asaresult,reportedsegmentsandthefinancial

informationofthereportedsegmentsarenotnecessarilycomparablewithsimilarinformationreportedby

otherfinancialinstitutions.Furthermore,changesinmanagementstructureorallocationmethodologies

andproceduresmayresultinchangesinreportedsegmentfinancialdata.Financialinformationaboutthe

Company™ssegmentsispresentedinnote22ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
TheBusinessBankingsegmentprovidesawiderangeofservicestosmallbusinessesandprofessionals
withinmarketsservedbytheCompanythroughtheCompany™sbranchnetwork,businessbankingcenters

andotherdeliverychannelssuchastelephonebanking,Internetbankingandautomatedtellermachines.

Servicesandproductsofferedbythissegmentincludevariousbusinessloansandleases,includingloans

guaranteedbytheSmallBusinessAdministration,businesscreditcards,depositproducts,andfinancial

servicessuchascashmanagement,payrollanddirectdeposit,merchantcreditcardandlettersofcredit.Net

incomefortheBusinessBankingsegmentdeclined24%to$111millionin2013from$147millionin2012.

Thatdecreasereflects:lowernetinterestincomeof$22million;increasedcostsassociatedwiththe

allocationofoperatingexpensesrelatedtoBSA/AMLcompliance,riskmanagement,andotheroperational

initiativesacrosstheCompany;a$6millionincreaseinpersonnelcosts;anda$4millionincreaseinthe

provisionforcreditlosses.Thelowernetinterestincomereflectsa43basispointnarrowingofthenet

interestmarginondeposits,partiallyoffsetbya$418millionincreaseinaverageoutstandingdeposit

balances(predominantlynoninterest-bearing).NetincomecontributedbytheBusinessBankingsegment

totaled$123millionin2011.The20%increaseinnetincomein2012ascomparedwith2011reflecteda$23

milliondeclineintheprovisionforcreditlosses,highernetinterestincomeof$12millionandincreased

merchantdiscountandcreditcardrevenuesof$5million.Thehighernetinterestincomereflecteda$1.0

billionincreaseinaverageoutstandingdepositbalances(predominantlynoninterest-bearing),offset,inpart,

bya9basispointnarrowingofthenetinterestmarginondeposits.
TheCommercialBankingsegmentprovidesawiderangeofcreditproductsandbankingservicesfor
middle-marketandlargecommercialcustomers,mainl
ywithinthemarketsservedbytheCompany.Services
providedbythissegmentincludecommerciallendingandleasing,lettersofcredit,depositproducts,andcash

managementservices.TheCommercialBankingsegmentrecordednetincomeof$391millionin2013,down

9%from$431millionin2012.Thatdeclinewaslargelyduetoa$61millionincreaseintheprovisionforcredit

losses,theresultofhighernetcharge-offspredominantlyrelatedto$49millionofloanscharged-offfora

relationshipwithamotorvehicle-relatedpartswholesaler.NetincomefortheCommercialBankingsegment

in2011was$369million.The17%increaseinnetincomein2012ascomparedwith2011reflectsa

$98millionriseinnetinterestincome,largelyduetohigheraverageloananddepositbalancesof$2.3billion

and$1.2billion,respectively,anda$14milliondeclineintheprovisionforcreditlosses.
TheCommercialRealEstatesegmentprovidescreditanddepositservicestoitscustomers.Realestate
securingloansinthissegmentisgenerallylocatedintheNewYorkCitymetropolitanarea,upstateNew

York,Pennsylvania,Maryland,theDistrictofColumbia,Delaware,Virginia,WestVirginia,andthe

northwesternportionoftheUnitedStates.Commercialrealestateloansmaybesecuredbyapartment/

multifamilybuildings;office,retailandindustrialspace;orothertypesofcollateral.Activitiesofthis

segmentalsoincludetheorigination,salesandservicingofcommercialrealestateloansthroughtheFannie

MaeDUSprogramandotherprograms.TheCommercialRealEstatesegmentearned$322millionin2013,
894%abovethe$309millionrecordedin2012.Thatimprovementwaslargelyattributabletoa$39million
increaseinnetinterestincome,resultingfromgrowthinaverageloananddepositbalancesof$694millionand

$466million,respectively,anda17basispointwideningofthenetinterestmarginonloans,partiallyoffsetby

a31basispointnarrowingofthenetinterestmarginondeposits.Thehighernetinterestincomewasoffset,in

part,by:a$3millionincreaseintheprovisionforcreditlosses;a$3milliondecreaseinmortgagebanking

revenues;andincreasedotheroperatingexpensesthatreflectcostsassociatedwiththeallocationofoperating

expensesrelatingtoBSA/AMLcompliance,riskmanagement,andotheroperationalinitiativesacrossthe

Company.NetincomefortheCommercialRealEstatesegmentin2012rose29%from$240millionin2011.

Factorscontributingtothathighernetincomeinclude:a$64millionincreaseinnetinterestincomeresulting

primarilyfromgrowthinaverageloananddepositbalancesof$1.4billionand$486million,respectively,anda

9basispointwideningofthenetinterestmarginonloans;a$54millionreductionintheprovisionforcredit

losses;anda$22millionincreaseinmortgagebankingrevenues.Thosefavorablefactorswereoffset,inpart,by

increasedFDICassessments,personnelcostsandotheroperatingexpenses.
TheDiscretionaryPortfoliosegmentincludesinvestmentandtradingsecurities,residentialmortgage
loansandotherassets;short-termandlong-termborrowedfunds;brokeredcertificatesofdepositand

interestrateswapagreementsrelatedthereto;andCaymanIslandsofficedeposits.Thissegmentalso

providesforeignexchangeservicestocustomers.IncludedintheassetsoftheDiscretionaryPortfolio

segmentaretheCompany™sportfolioofAlt-Amortgageloansand,priortothesecondquarterof2013,were

mostoftheinvestmentsecuritiesforwhichtheCompanyhadrecognizedother-than-temporaryimpairment

chargesineachofthelastthreeyears.TheDiscretionaryPortfoliosegmentcontributednetincomeof$30

millionin2013and$59millionin2011,comparedwithanetlossof$33millionin2012.Includedinthis

segment™sresultsfor2013werenetpre-taxlossesof$46millionassociatedwiththesecondquartersaleof

approximately$1.0billionofprivatelyissuedMBSthathadbeenheldintheavailable-for-saleinvestment

securitiesportfolioand$149millionofnetrealizedgainsin2011onthesaleofinvestmentsecurities,

predominantlycomprisedofresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritiesguaranteedbyFannieMaeandFreddie

Mac,CDOsandtrustpreferredsecurities.Alsoreflectedinsecuritiesgainsorlosseswereother-than-

temporaryimpairmentcharges,predominantlyrelatedtocertainprivatelyissuedMBS,of$10millionin

2013,$48millionin2012and$77millionin2011.Excludingsecuritiesgainsandlosses,theDiscretionary

Portfoliosegmentrecordednetincomeof$63millionin2013and$16millionin2011,comparedwithanet

lossof$5millionin2012.Themostsignificantcontributorstothefavorableperformancein2013as

comparedwith2012include:$42millionofgainsfromsecuritizationtransactionsassociatedwithone-to-

fourfamilyresidentialrealestateloanspreviouslyheldintheCompany™sloanportfolio;a$28million

declineintheprovisionforcreditlosses,predominantlytheresultoflowernetcharge-offs;anda$31

milliondecreaseinintersegmentcostsduetoalowerproportionofresidentialrealestateloansbeing

retainedforportfolioratherthanbeingsold.Onthatsamebasis,theunfavorableperformancein2012as

comparedwith2011reflectsa$48millionriseinintersegmentcostsrelatedtoahigherproportionof

residentialrealestateloansbeingretainedforportfolioratherthanbeingsold,offset,inpart,bya$15

milliondecreaseintheprovisionforcreditlosses.
TheResidentialMortgageBankingsegmentoriginatesandservicesresidentialmortgageloansandsells
substantiallyallofthoseloansinthesecondarymarkettoinvestorsortotheDiscretionaryPortfolio

segment.Thissegmenthadalsooriginatedandservicedloanstodevelopersofresidentialrealestate

properties,althoughthatoriginationactivityhasbeensignificantlycurtailed.Inadditiontothegeographic

regionsservedbyorcontiguouswiththeCompany™sbranchnetwork,theCompanymaintainsmortgage

loanoriginationofficesinseveralstatesthroughoutthewesternUnitedStates.TheCompanyperiodically

purchasestherightstoservicemortgageloansandalsosub-servicesresidentialmortgageloansforothers.

Residentialmortgageloansheldforsaleareincludedinthissegment.NetincomefortheResidential

MortgageBankingsegmentwas$99millionin2013,down26%from$135millionin2012.Thedecreasein

netincomewaslargelyduetoa$97milliondeclineinrevenuesfromresidentialmortgageoriginationand

salesactivities(includingintersegmentrevenues),duetoloweroriginationvolumesonloansoriginatedfor

saleandincreasedpersonnelandprofessionalservicescostsassociatedwithexpandedresidentialmortgage

loansub-servicingactivities.Thoseunfavorablefactorswereoffset,inpart,by:a$29milliondeclineinthe

provisionforcreditlossesreflectingnetrecoveriesin2013ofpreviouslycharged-offloanstorealestate

buildersanddevelopersof$12million;a$20millionriseinnetinterestincome,theresultofa$139million

increaseinaverageloanbalancesanda63basispointwideningofthenetinterestmarginonloansdueto

higherloanyields;anda$16millionriseinrevenuesfromservicingresidentialrealestateloans(including

intersegmentrevenues).Netincomeforthissegmenttotaled$13millionin2011.Thesignificant
90improvementin2012™sresultsascomparedwith2011wasattributabletoa$177millionincreasein
revenuesfromresidentialmortgageoriginationandsalesactivities(includingintersegmentrevenues),due

tohigheroriginationvolumesandwidermarginsonloansoriginatedforsale,anda$25millionrisein

revenuesfromservicingresidentialrealestateloans.Alsocontributingtotheincreaseinnetincomewerea

$19milliondeclineintheprovisionforcreditlossesanda$14millionriseinnetinterestincome,theresult

ofanincreaseinaverageloanbalancesof$445million.Thosepositivefactorswereoffset,inpart,byan

increaseinpersonnelcostsof$23million.
TheRetailBankingsegmentoffersavarietyofservicestoconsumersthroughseveraldeliverychannels
whichincludebranchoffices,automatedtellermachines,telephonebankingandInternetbanking.The

CompanyhasbranchofficesinNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,Virginia,theDistrictofColumbia,

WestVirginia,andDelaware.Creditservicesofferedbythissegmentincludeconsumerinstallmentloans,

automobileloans(originatedbothdirectlyandindirectlythroughdealers),homeequityloansandlinesof

creditandcreditcards.Thesegmentalsoofferstoitscustomersdepositproducts,includingdemand,

savingsandtimeaccounts;investmentproducts,includingmutualfundsandannuities;andotherservices.

TheRetailBankingsegment™snetincomedeclined17%to$182millionin2013from$221millionin2012.

Themainfactorforthatdeclinewasa$93milliondecreaseinnetinterestincome,largelyduetoa33basis

pointnarrowingofthenetinterestmarginondepositsandadecreaseinaverageoutstandingloansof$682

million,partiallyoffsetbya16basispointwideningofthenetinterestmarginonloansanda$720million

increaseinaverageoutstandingdepositbalances.Alsocontributingtothelowernetincomein2013were

highernoninterestoperatingexpenses,includingcostsrelatedtoBSA/AMLcompliance,riskmanagement,

andotheroperationalinitiatives.Thoseunfavorablefactorswereoffset,inpart,bya$21milliongainonthe

securitizationandsaleofapproximately$1.4billionofautomobileloanspreviouslyheldintheCompany™s

loanportfolioanda$23milliondeclineintheprovisionforcreditlosses,largelyduetolowernetcharge-

offs.Thissegment™snetincomerose10%in2012from$200millionin2011.Themostsignificantfactors

contributingtothatimprovementwere:a$52millionincreaseinnetinterestincome,duelargelytoa$1.8

billionincreaseinaverageoutstandingdepositbalancesandan8basispointwideningofthenetinterest

marginondeposits;a$6milliondecreaseintheprovisionforcreditlosses;anda$5millionriseinmerchant

discountandcreditcardrevenues.Thosefavorablefactorswereoffset,inpart,bya$24milliondecreasein

feesearnedforprovidingdepositaccountservicesanda$6millionincreaseinotheroperatingexpenses.
TheﬁAllOtherﬂcategoryreflectsotheractivitiesoftheCompanythatarenotdirectlyattributabletothe
reportedsegments.Reflectedinthiscategoryaretheamortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets

resultingfromtheacquisitionsoffinancialinstituti
ons,M&T™sshareoftheoperatinglossesofBLG,merger-
relatedgainsandexpensesresultingfromacquisitionsandthenetimpactoftheCompany™sallocation

methodologiesforinternaltransfersforfundingchargesandcreditsassociatedwiththeearningassetsand

interest-bearingliabilitiesoftheCompany™sreportablesegmentsandtheprovisionforcreditlosses.TheﬁAll

OtherﬂcategoryalsoincludestheICS,WASandothertrustactivitiesoftheCompany.Thevarious

componentsoftheﬁAllOtherﬂcategoryresultedinnetincomeof$3millionin2013,comparedwithnetlosses

of$181millionand$145million2012and2011,respectively.Theimprovedperformancein2013ascompared

withthepreviousyearresultedlargelyfromtherealizedgainsonthesaleoftheCompany™sholdingsofVisa

andMasterCardsharestotaling$103millionandthereversalofanaccrualforacontingentcompensation

obligationof$26millionassumedintheMay2011acquisitionofWilmingtonTrustthatexpired,eachof

whichwasrecordedin2013.Alsocontributingtotheimprovementwereincreasedtrustincomeof$24million

andthefavorableimpactfromtheCompany™sallocationmethodologiesforinternaltransfersforfundingand

otherchargesoftheCompany™sreportablesegmentsandtheprovisionforcreditlosses.Partiallyoffsetting

thosefavorablefactorswasthepreviouslynotedincreaseof$40millioninthelegalsettlementaccrualat

December31,2013.Themostsignificantcontributorstothehighernetlossin2012ascomparedwith2011

were:higherpersonnel-relatedexpensesandprofessionalservicescostsof$84millionand$57million,

respectively(due,inpart,tothefull-yearimpactof
theWilmingtonTrustacquisition);theimpacton2011™s
resultsofthe$65millionnon-taxablegainontheWilmi
ngtonTrustacquisitionandthe$55millionofincome
fromtheCDOlitigationsettlement;andtheimpactfromtheCompany™sallocationmethodologiesforinternal

transfersforfundingchargesandcreditsassociatedwiththeearningassetsandinterest-bearingliabilitiesofthe

Company™sreportablesegmentsandtheprovisionforcreditlosses.Partiallyoffsettingthosefactorswere:

increasesintrustincomeof$139million(reflectingt
hefull-yearimpactoftheacquisitionofWilmington
Trust);the$79millionother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargerelatedtoM&T™s20%investmentinBLG

andcashcontributionsmadetoTheM&TCharitableFoundation,eachofwhichwasrecordedin2011;and

merger-relatedexpensesof$10millionin2012,comparedwith$84millionin2011.
91RecentAccountingDevelopments
InJanuary2014,theFinancialAccountingStandardsBoard(ﬁFASBﬂ)issuedamendedaccountingand

disclosureguidanceforreclassificationofresidentialrealestatecollateralizedconsumermortgageloans

uponforeclosure.Theamendedguidanceclarifiesthataninsubstancerepossessionorforeclosureoccurs,

andacreditorisconsideredtohavereceivedphysicalpossessionofresidentialrealestateproperty

collateralizingaconsumermortgageloan,uponeither(1)thecreditorobtaininglegaltitletotheresidential

realestatepropertyuponcompletionofaforeclosureor(2)theborrowerconveyingallinterestinthe

residentialrealestatepropertytothecreditortosatisfythatloanthroughcompletionofadeedinlieuof

foreclosureorthroughasimilarlegalagreement.Theamendedguidancealsorequiresinterimandannual

disclosureofboth(1)theamountofforeclosedresidentialrealestatepropertyheldbythecreditorand

(2)therecordedinvestmentinconsumermortgageloanscollateralizedbyresidentialrealestateproperty

thatareintheprocessofforeclosureaccordingtolocalrequirementsoftheapplicablejurisdiction.This

guidanceiseffectiveforannualperiods,andinterimperiodswithinthoseannualperiods,beginningafter

December15,2014.Thisguidanceshouldbeappliedusingaprospectivetransitionmethodoramodified

retrospectivetransitionmethod.TheCompanydoesnotexpecttheguidancetohaveamaterialimpacton

itsfinancialpositionorresultsofoperations.
InJanuary2014,theFASBissuedamendedaccountingguidancepermittinganaccountingpolicy
electiontoaccountforinvestmentsinqualifiedaffordablehousingprojectsusingtheproportional

amortizationmethodifcertainconditionsaremet.Undertheproportionalamortizationmethod,anentity

amortizestheinitialcostoftheinvestmentinproportiontothetaxcreditsandothertaxbenefitsreceived

andrecognizesthenetinvestmentperformanceintheincomestatementasacomponentofincometax

expense.Thedecisiontoapplytheproportionalamortizationmethodofaccountingisanaccountingpolicy

electionthatshouldbeappliedconsistentlytoallqualifyingaffordablehousingprojectinvestments.This

guidanceiseffectiveforannualperiods,andinterimreportingperiodswithinthoseannualperiods,

beginningafterDecember15,2014.Thisguidanceshouldbeappliedretrospectivelytoallperiodspresented.

TheCompanyisstillevaluatingtheimpacttheguidancecouldhaveonitsconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
InJuly2013,theFASBissuedamendedaccountingguidancepermittingtheOvernightIndexSwap
Rate(alsoreferredtoastheFedFundsEffectiveSwapRate)tobeusedasaU.S.benchmarkinterestratefor

hedgeaccountingpurposes,inadditiontotheinterestrateondirectTreasuryobligationsoftheU.S.

governmentandtheLondonInterbankOfferedRate.Theamendmentsalsoremovetherestrictiononusing

differentbenchmarkratesforsimilarhedges.Theguidancewaseffectiveprospectivelyforqualifyingnewor

redesignatedhedgingrelationshipsenteredintoonorafterJuly17,2013.Inthepast,theCompanyhasnot

attemptedtohedgeitsassetsoritsliabilitiesforchangesintheOvernightIndexSwapRate,butcoulddoso

inthefuture.
InOctober2012,theFASBissuedamendedaccountingguidancerelatingtosubsequentaccounting
foranindemnificationassetrecognizedattheacquisitiondateasaresultofagovernment-assisted

acquisitionofafinancialinstitution.Theamendmentclarifiestheexistingsubsequentmeasurement

guidanceforindemnificationassetsrecognizedasaresultofagovernment-assistedacquisitionofafinancial

institutionthatincludesaloss-sharingagreement.Specifically,whenanentityrecognizesanindemnification

assetasaresultofagovernment-assistedacquisitionofafinancialinstitutionandsubsequentlyachangein

thecashflowsexpectedtobecollectedontheindemnificationassetoccurs(asaresultofachangeincash

flowsexpectedtobecollectedontheassetssubjecttoindemnification),theentityshouldaccountforthe

changeinthemeasurementoftheindemnificationassetonthesamebasisasthechangeintheassetssubject

toindemnification.Theperiodforanyamortizationofchangesinvaluewouldbelimitedtothelesserofthe

contractualtermoftheindemnificationagreementandtheremaininglifeoftheindemnifiedassets.The

guidancewaseffectiveforfiscalyears,andinterimperiodswithinthoseyears,beginningonorafter

December15,2012.Theguidanceshouldbeappliedprospectivelytoanynewindemnificationassets

recognizedafterthedateofadoptionandtoindemnificationassetsexistingasofthedateofadoption.The

adoptionofthisguidancedidnothaveasignificanteffectontheCompany™sfinancialpositionorresultsof

operations.InDecember2011,theFASBissuedamendeddisclosureguidancerelatingtooffsettingassetsand
liabilities.Theamendmentsrequiredisclosureofgrossandnetinformationaboutinstrumentsand

transactionseligibleforoffsetinthestatementoffinancialpositionandinstrumentsandtransactions

subjecttoanagreementsimilartoamasternettingarrangement.Thescopeofthisguidanceincludes

derivatives,saleandrepurchaseagreementsandreversesaleandrepurchaseagreements,andsecurities

borrowingandsecuritieslendingarrangements.Theguidancewaseffectiveforannualreportingperiods
92beginningonorafterJanuary1,2013,andinterimperiodswithinthoseannualperiods.Thenewrequired
disclosuresshouldbeappliedretrospectivelyforallcomparableperiodspresented.TheCompany™s

disclosuresrelatingtooffsettingassetsandliabilitiescanbefoundinnotes9and18ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.InJune2011,theFASBissuedamendedpresentationguidancerelatingtocomprehensiveincome.
Theamendmentseliminatetheoptiontopresentthecomponentsofothercomprehensiveincomeaspartof

thestatementofchangesinshareholders™equityandnowrequirethepresentationoftotalcomprehensive

income,thecomponentsofnetincome,andthecomponentsofothercomprehensiveincomeeitherina

singlecontinuousstatementofcomprehensiveincomeorintwoseparatebutconsecutivestatements.In

bothoptions,anentityisrequiredtopresenteachcomponentofnetincomealongwithtotalnetincome,

eachcomponentofothercomprehensiveincomealongwithatotalforothercomprehensiveincome,anda

totalamountforcomprehensiveincome.Thepresentationguidancewaseffectiveforfiscalyears,and

interimperiodswithinthoseyears,beginningafterDecember15,2011andwastobeappliedretrospectively.

TheCompanyhascompliedwiththenewpresentationguidanceusingseparatebutconsecutivestatements.

InFebruary2013,theFASBagainamendedpresentationguidancerelatingtocomprehensiveincometo

requiredisclosuresofsignificantamountsreclassifiedoutofaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincomeby

componentforreportingperiodsbeginningafterDecember15,2012.TheCompany™sdisclosuresrelatingto

accumulatedothercomprehensiveincomecanbefoundinnote15ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Forward-LookingStatements
Management™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperationsandothersections

ofthisAnnualReportcontainforward-lookingstatementsthatarebasedoncurrentexpectations,estimates

andprojectionsabouttheCompany™sbusiness,management™sbeliefsandassumptionsmadeby

management.Forward-lookingstatementsaretypicallyidentifiedbywordssuchasﬁbelieve,ﬂﬁexpect,ﬂ

ﬁanticipate,ﬂﬁintend,ﬂﬁtarget,ﬂﬁestimate,ﬂﬁcontinue,ﬂﬁpositions,ﬂﬁprospectsﬂorﬁpotential,ﬂbyfuture

conditionalverbssuchasﬁwill,ﬂﬁwould,ﬂﬁshould,ﬂﬁcould,ﬂorﬁmay,ﬂorbyvariationsofsuchwordsorby

similarexpressions.Thesestatementsarenotguaranteesoffutureperformanceandinvolvecertainrisks,

uncertaintiesandassumptions(ﬁFutureFactorsﬂ)whicharedifficulttopredict.Therefore,actualoutcomes

andresultsmaydiffermateriallyfromwhatisexpressedorforecastedinsuchforward-lookingstatements.

Forward-lookingstatementsspeakonlyasofthedatetheyaremadeandtheCompanyassumesnodutyto

updateforward-lookingstatements.
FutureFactorsincludechangesininterestrates,spreadsonearningassetsandinterest-bearing
liabilities,andinterestratesensitivity;prepaymentspeeds,loanoriginations,creditlossesandmarketvalues

ofloans,collateralsecuringloansandotherassets;sourcesofliquidity;commonsharesoutstanding;

commonstockpricevolatility;fairvalueofandnumberofstock-basedcompensationawardstobeissuedin

futureperiods;theimpactofchangesinmarketvaluesontrust-relatedrevenues;legislationand/or

regulationaffectingthefinancialservicesindustryasawhole,andM&Tanditssubsidiariesindividuallyor

collectively,includingtaxlegislationorregulation;regulatorysupervisionandoversight,includingmonetary

policyandcapitalrequirements;changesinaccountingpoliciesorproceduresasmayberequiredbythe

FASBorotherregulatoryagencies;increasingpriceandproduct/servicecompetitionbycompetitors,

includingnewentrants;rapidtechnologicaldevelopmentsandchanges;theabilitytocontinuetointroduce

competitivenewproductsandservicesonatimely,cost-effectivebasis;themixofproducts/services;

containingcostsandexpenses;governmentalandpublicpolicychanges;protectionandvalidityof

intellectualpropertyrights;relianceonlargecustomers;technological,implementationandcost/financial

risksinlarge,multi-yearcontracts;theoutcomeofpendingandfuturelitigationandgovernmental

proceedings,includingtax-relatedexaminationsandothermatters;continuedavailabilityoffinancing;

financialresourcesintheamounts,atthetimesandonthetermsrequiredtosupportM&Tandits

subsidiaries™futurebusinesses;andmaterialdifferencesintheactualfinancialresultsofmerger,acquisition

andinvestmentactivitiescomparedwithM&T™sinitialexpectations,includingthefullrealizationof

anticipatedcostsavingsandrevenueenhancements.
ThesearerepresentativeoftheFutureFactorsthatcouldaffecttheoutcomeoftheforward-looking
statements.Inaddition,suchstatementscouldbeaffectedbygeneralindustryandmarketconditionsand

growthrates,generaleconomicandpoliticalconditions,eithernationallyorinthestatesinwhichM&Tand

itssubsidiariesdobusiness,includinginterestrateandcurrencyexchangeratefluctuations,changesand

trendsinthesecuritiesmarkets,andotherFutureFactors.
93Table23
QUARTERLYTRENDS
2013Quarters
2012Quarters
EarningsanddividendsFourth
ThirdSecondFirstFourthThirdSecondFirstAmountsinthousands,exceptpershare
Interestincome(taxable-equivalentbasis)
..............................$740,665$748,791$756,424$736,425$751,860$751,385$744,031$720,800
Interestexpense
...................................................67,98269,57872,62073,92577,93182,12989,40393,706
Netinterestincome
................................................672,683679,213683,804662,500673,929669,256654,628627,094
Less:provisionforcreditlosses
.......................................42,00048,00057,00038,00049,00046,00060,00049,000
Otherincome
.....................................................446,246477,388508,689432,882453,164445,733391,650376,723
Less:otherexpense
.................................................743
,072658,626598,591635,596626,146616,027627,392639,695
Incomebeforeincometaxes
.........................................33
3,857449,975536,902421,786451,947452,962358,886315,122
Applicableincometaxes
............................................106,236149,391182,219141,223149,247152,966118,861101,954
Taxable-equivalentadjustment
.......................................6,1996,1056,2176,4506,5076,5346,6456,705
Netincome
.......................................................$
221,422$294,479$348,466$274,113$296,193$293,462$233,380$206,463
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders-diluted
....................$
203,451$275,356$328,557$255,096$276,605$273,896$214,716$188,241
Percommonsharedata
Basicearnings
...................................................$1.57$
2.13$2.56$2.00$2.18$2.18$1.71$1.50
Dilutedearnings
.................................................1.56
2.112.551.982.162.171.711.50
Cashdividends
..................................................$.70$.70$.70$.70$.70$.70$.70$.70
Averagecommonsharesoutstanding
Basic..........................................................129,497129,171128,252127,669126,918125,819125,488125,220
Diluted........................................................130,464130,265129,017128,636127,800126,292125,897125,616
Performanceratios,annualized

Returnon
Averageassets
...................................................1.03%
1.39%1.68%1.36%1.45%1.45%1.17%1.06%
Averagecommonshareholders™equity
...............................7.99%11.06%13.78%11.10%12.10%12.40%10.12%9.04%
Netinterestmarginonaverageearningassets(taxable-equivalentbasis)
......3.56%3.61%3.71%3.71%3.74%3.77%3.74%3.69%
Nonaccrualloanstototalloansandleases,netofunearneddiscount
.........1.36%1.44%1.46%1.60%1.52%1.44%1.54%1.75%
Netoperating(tangible)results(a)

Netoperatingincome(inthousands)
..................................$
227,797$300,968$360,734$285,136$304,657$302,060$247,433$218,360
Dilutednetoperatingincomepercommonshare
........................1.61
2.162.652.062.232.241.821.59
Annualizedreturnon
Averagetangibleassets
............................................1.11%
1.48%1.81%1.48%1.56%1.56%1.30%1.18%
Averagetangiblecommonshareholders™equity
........................12.67%17.64%22.72%18.71%20.46%21.53%18.54%16.79%
Efficiencyratio(b)
.................................................65.48%56.03%50.92%55.88%53.63%53.73%56.86%61.09%
Balancesheetdata

Inmillions,exceptpershare

Averagebalances
Totalassets(c)
..................................................$
85,330$84,011$83,352$81,913$81,366$80,432$80,087$78,026
Totaltangibleassets(c)
...........................................81,75480,42779,76078,31177,75576,81076,45574,381
Earningassets
...................................................75,04974,66773,96072,33971,67970,66270,45068,388
Investmentsecurities
.............................................8,3546,9795,2935,8036,2956,8117,2717,507
Loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount
...........................63,55064,85865,97965,85265,01163,45561,82660,484
Deposits.......................................................67,21266,23265,68064,54064,26962,74361,53059,291
Commonshareholders™equity(c)
...................................10,22810,0039,6879,4489,2338,9198,6688,510
Tangiblecommonshareholders™equity(c)
............................6,6526,4196,0955,8465,6225,2975,0364,865
Atendofquarter
Totalassets(c)
..................................................$
85,162$84,427$83,229$82,812$83,009$81,085$80,808$79,187
Totaltangibleassets(c)
...........................................81,58980,84779,64179,21579,40277,46977,18175,548
Earningassets
...................................................74,70674,08573,92773,54372,85971,22071,06569,490
Investmentsecurities
.............................................8,7968,3105,2115,6616,0746,6247,0577,195
Loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount
...........................64,07363,65965,97265,92466,57164,11262,85160,922
Deposits.......................................................67,11966,55265,66165,09065,61164,00762,54960,913
Commonshareholders™equity,netofundeclaredcumulativepreferred
dividends(c)..................................................10,42110,1339,8369,5459,3279,0718,7588,559
Tangiblecommonshareholders™equity(c)
............................6,8486,5536,2485,9485,7205,4555,1314,920
Equitypercommonshare
.........................................79.8177.8175.9873.9972.7371.1769.1567.64
Tangibleequitypercommonshare
..................................52.4550.3248.2646.1144.6142.8040.5238.89
Marketpricepercommonshare
High..........................................................$
117.29$119.54$112.01$105.90$105.33$95.98$88.00$87.37
Low...........................................................
109.23109.4795.6899.5995.0282.2976.9276.82
Closing........................................................116.42111.92111.75103.1698.4795.1682.5786.88
(a)Excludesamortizationandbalancesrelatedtogoodwillandcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsandmerger-relatedgainsandexpenseswhich
,exceptinthe
calculationoftheefficiencyratio,arenetofapplicableincometaxeffects.AreconciliationofnetincomeandnetoperatingincomeappearsinTabl
e24.
(b)Excludesimpactofmerger-relatedexpensesandnetsecuritiestransactions.

(c)Thedifferencebetweentotalassetsandtotaltangibleassets,andcommonshareholders™equityandtangiblecommonshareholders™equity,repre
sentsgoodwill,core
depositandotherintangibleassets,netofapplicabledeferredtaxbalances.AreconciliationofsuchbalancesappearsinTable24.
94Table24
RECONCILIATIONOFQUARTERLYGAAPTONON-GAAPMEASURES
2013Quarters
2012Quarters
FourthThirdSecondFirstFourthThirdSecondFirstIncomestatementdata
Inthousands,exceptpershare

Netincome

Netincome
......................................$2
21,422$294,479$348,466$274,113$296,193$293,462$233,380$206,463
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangible
assets(a).......................................6,3756,4897,6328,1488,4648,5989,70910,240
Merger-relatedexpenses(a)
..........................ŠŠ
4,6362,875ŠŠ4,3441,657
Netoperatingincome
............................$
227,797$300,968$360,734$285,136$304,657$302,060$247,433$218,360
Earningspercommonshare
Dilutedearningspercommonshare
...................$1.56$
2.11$2.55$1.98$2.16$2.17$1.71$1.50
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangible
assets(a)........................................05.05.06.06.07.07.08.08
Merger-relatedexpenses(a)
..........................ŠŠ.04.02ŠŠ.03.01
Dilutednetoperatingearningspercommonshare
.....$1.61$
2.16$2.65$2.06$2.23$2.24$1.82$1.59
Otherexpense
Otherexpense
....................................$74
3,072$658,626$598,591$635,596$626,146$616,027$627,392$639,695
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets..(10,439)(10,628)(12,502)(13,343)(13,865)(14,085)(15,907)(16,774)

Merger-relatedexpenses
............................ŠŠ
(7,632)(4,732)ŠŠ(7,151)(2,728)
Noninterestoperatingexpense
.....................$732
,633$647,998$578,457$617,521$612,281$601,942$604,334$620,193
Merger-relatedexpenses
Salariesandemployeebenefits
.......................$Š$Š$300$536$Š$Š$
3,024$1,973
Equipmentandnetoccupancy
.......................ŠŠ489201ŠŠŠ15
Printing,postageandsupplies
.......................ŠŠ998827
ŠŠŠŠOthercostsofoperations
...........................ŠŠ
5,8453,168ŠŠ4,127740
Total.........................................$Š$Š$
7,632$4,732$Š$Š$7,151$2,728
Efficiencyratio
Noninterestoperatingexpense(numerator)
............$732
,633$647,998$578,457$617,521$612,281$601,942$604,334$620,193
Taxable-equivalentnetinterestincome
................672,683679,213683,804662,500673,929669,256654,628627,094
Otherincome
....................................446,246477,388508,689432,882453,164445,733391,650376,723
Less:Gain(loss)onbankinvestmentsecurities
..........ŠŠ
56,457ŠŠ372(408)45
NetOTTIlossesrecognizedinearnings
............ŠŠŠ
(9,800)(14,491)(5,672)(16,173)(11,486)
Denominator.....................................$1,118,929$1,156,601$1,136,036$1,105,182$1,141,584$1,120,289$1,062,859$1,015,258
Efficiencyratio
....................................65.48%56.03%50.92%55.88%53.63%53.73%56.86%61.09%
Balancesheetdata
Inmillions

Averageassets

Averageassets
....................................$
85,330$84,011$83,352$81,913$81,366$80,432$80,087$78,026
Goodwill........................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
...............(74)(84)(95)(109)(122)(136)(151)(168)
Deferredtaxes
....................................2325283236394448
Averagetangibleassets
...........................$
81,754$80,427$79,760$78,311$77,755$76,810$76,455$74,381
Averagecommonequity
Averagetotalequity
................................$
11,109$10,881$10,563$10,322$10,105$9,789$9,536$9,376
Preferredstock
...................................(881)(878)(876)(874)(872)(870)(868)(866)
Averagecommonequity
..........................10,22810,0039,6879,4489,2338,9198,6688,510
Goodwill........................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
...............(74)(84)(95)(109)(122)(136)(151)(168)
Deferredtaxes
....................................2325283236394448
Averagetangiblecommonequity
...................$
6,652$6,419$6,095$5,846$5,622$5,297$5,036$4,865
Atendofquarter
Totalassets

Totalassets
......................................$
85,162$84,427$83,229$82,812$83,009$81,085$80,808$79,187
Goodwill........................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
...............(69)(79)(90)(102)(116)(129)(143)(160)
Deferredtaxes
....................................2124273034384146
Totaltangibleassets
.............................$
81,589$80,847$79,641$79,215$79,402$77,469$77,181$75,548
Totalcommonequity
Totalequity
......................................$
11,306$11,016$10,716$10,423$10,203$9,945$9,630$9,429
Preferredstock
...................................(882)(879)(877)(875)(873)(870)(868)(867)
Undeclareddividends-cumulativepreferredstock
........(3)(4)(3)(3)(3)(4)(4)(3)
Commonequity,netofundeclaredcumulativepreferred
dividends....................................10,42110,1339,8369,5459,3279,0718,7588,559
Goodwill........................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
...............(69)(79)(90)(102)(116)(129)(143)(160)
Deferredtaxes
....................................2124273034384146
Totaltangiblecommonequity
.......................$
6,848$6,553$6,248$5,948$5,720$5,455$5,131$4,920
(a)Afteranyrelatedtaxeffect.
95Item7A.
QuantitativeandQualitativeDisclosuresAboutMarketRisk.
IncorporatedbyreferencetothediscussioncontainedinPartII,Item7,ﬁManagement™sDiscussionand
AnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations,ﬂunderthecaptionsﬁLiquidity,MarketRisk,and

InterestRateSensitivityﬂ(includingTable21)andﬁCapital.ﬂ
Item8.
FinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData.
FinancialStatementsandSupplementaryDataconsistofthefinancialstatementsasindexedandpresented
belowandTable23ﬁQuarterlyTrendsﬂpresentedinPartII,Item7,ﬁManagement™sDiscussionand

AnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations.ﬂ
IndextoFinancialStatementsandFinancialStatementSchedules
ReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReporting
..........................................97
ReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm
......................................98
ConsolidatedBalanceSheetŠDecember31,2013and2012
....................................99
ConsolidatedStatementofIncomeŠYearsendedDecember31,2013,2012and2011
...............100
ConsolidatedStatementofComprehensiveIncomeŠYearsendedDecember31,2013,2012and
2011................................................................................101
ConsolidatedStatementofCashFlowsŠYearsendedDecember31,2013,2012and2011
............102
ConsolidatedStatementofChangesinShareholders™EquityŠYearsendedDecember31,2013,2012
and2011
............................................................................103
NotestoFinancialStatements
.............................................................104
96ReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReporting
Managementisresponsibleforestablishingandmaintainingadequateinternalcontroloverfinancial

reportingatM&TBankCorporationandsubsidiaries(ﬁtheCompanyﬂ).Managementhasassessedthe

effectivenessoftheCompany™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingasofDecember31,2013basedon

criteriadescribedinﬁInternalControlŠIntegratedFramework(1992)ﬂissuedbytheCommitteeof

SponsoringOrganizationsoftheTreadwayCommission.Basedonthatassessment,managementconcluded

thattheCompanymaintainedeffectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingasofDecember31,2013.
TheconsolidatedfinancialstatementsoftheCompanyhavebeenauditedby
PricewaterhouseCoopersLLP,anindependentregisteredpublicaccountingfirm,thatwasengagedto

expressanopinionastothefairnessofpresentationofsuchfinancialstatements.PricewaterhouseCoopers

LLPwasalsoengagedtoassesstheeffectivenessoftheCompany™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.

ThereportofPricewaterhouseCoopersLLPfollowsthisreport.
M&TBANKCORPORATION
ROBERTG.W
ILMERSChairmanoftheBoardandChiefExecutiveOfficer
RENÉF.J
ONESExecutiveVicePresidentandChiefFinancialOfficer
97ReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm
TotheBoardofDirectorsandShareholdersof
M&TBankCorporation
Inouropinion,theaccompanyingconsolidatedbalancesheetsandtherelatedconsolidatedstatementsof
income,comprehensiveincome,cashflows,andchangesinshareholders™equitypresentfairly,inall

materialrespects,thefinancialpositionofM&TBankCorporationanditssubsidiaries(theﬁCompanyﬂ)at

December31,2013andDecember31,2012,andtheresultsofitsoperationsanditscashflowsforeachof

thethreeyearsintheperiodendedDecember31,2013inconformitywithaccountingprinciplesgenerally

acceptedintheUnitedStatesofAmerica.Alsoinouropinion,theCompanymaintained,inallmaterial

respects,effectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingasofDecember31,2013,basedoncriteria

establishedinInternalControlŠIntegratedFramework(1992)issuedbytheCommitteeofSponsoring

OrganizationsoftheTreadwayCommission(COSO).TheCompany™smanagementisresponsibleforthese

financialstatements,formaintainingeffectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingandforits

assessmentoftheeffectivenessofinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting,includedintheaccompanying

ReportonInternalControloverFinancialReporting.Ourresponsibilityistoexpressopinionsonthese

financialstatementsandontheCompany™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingbasedonourintegrated

audits.WeconductedourauditsinaccordancewiththestandardsofthePublicCompanyAccounting

OversightBoard(UnitedStates).Thosestandardsrequirethatweplanandperformtheauditstoobtain

reasonableassuranceaboutwhetherthefinancialstatementsarefreeofmaterialmisstatementandwhether

effectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingwasmaintainedinallmaterialrespects.Ourauditsofthe

financialstatementsincludedexamining,onatestbasis,evidencesupportingtheamountsanddisclosuresin

thefinancialstatements,assessingtheaccountingprinciplesusedandsignificantestimatesmadeby

management,andevaluatingtheoverallfinancialstatementpresentation.Ourauditofinternalcontrolover

financialreportingincludedobtaininganunderstandingofinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting,

assessingtheriskthatamaterialweaknessexists,andtestingandevaluatingthedesignandoperating

effectivenessofinternalcontrolbasedontheassessedrisk.Ourauditsalsoincludedperformingsuchother

proceduresasweconsiderednecessaryinthecircumstances.Webelievethatourauditsprovideareasonable

basisforouropinions.
Acompany™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingisaprocessdesignedtoprovidereasonableassurance
regardingthereliabilityoffinancialreportingandthepreparationoffinancialstatementsforexternal

purposesinaccordancewithgenerallyacceptedaccountingprinciples.Acompany™sinternalcontrolover

financialreportingincludesthosepoliciesandproceduresthat(i)pertaintothemaintenanceofrecords

that,inreasonabledetail,accuratelyandfairlyreflectthetransactionsanddispositionsoftheassetsofthe

company;(ii)providereasonableassurancethattransactionsarerecordedasnecessarytopermit

preparationoffinancialstatementsinaccordancewithgenerallyacceptedaccountingprinciples,andthat

receiptsandexpendituresofthecompanyarebeingmadeonlyinaccordancewithauthorizationsof

managementanddirectorsofthecompany;and(iii)providereasonableassuranceregardingpreventionor

timelydetectionofunauthorizedacquisition,use,ordispositionofthecompany™sassetsthatcouldhavea

materialeffectonthefinancialstatements.
Becauseofitsinherentlimitations,internalcontroloverfinancialreportingmaynotpreventordetect
misstatements.Also,projectionsofanyevaluationofeffectivenesstofutureperiodsaresubjecttotherisk

thatcontrolsmaybecomeinadequatebecauseofchangesinconditions,orthatthedegreeofcompliance

withthepoliciesorproceduresmaydeteriorate.
Buffalo,NewYork

February21,2014
98M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
ConsolidatedBalanceSheet
(Dollarsinthousands,exceptpershare)December31
20132012AssetsCashandduefrombanks
...............................................$
1,573,361$1,983,615
Interest-bearingdepositsatbanks
........................................1,651,138129,945
Federalfundssold
.....................................................99,5733,000
Tradingaccount
......................................................376,131488,966
Investmentsecurities(includespledgedsecuritiesthatcanbesoldorrepledgedof
$1,696,438atDecember31,2013;$1,801,842atDecember31,2012)
Availableforsale(cost:$4,444,365atDecember31,2013;$4,643,070at
December31,2012)
...............................................4,531,7864,739,437
Heldtomaturity(fairvalue:$3,860,127atDecember31,2013;$976,883at
December31,2012)
...............................................3,966,1301,032,276
Other(fairvalue:$298,581atDecember31,2013;$302,648atDecember31,
2012)...........................................................298,581302,648
Totalinvestmentsecurities
..........................................8,796,4976,074,361
Loansandleases
......................................................64,325,78366,790,186
Unearneddiscount
..................................................(252,624)(219,229)
Loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount
.............................64,073,15966,570,957
Allowanceforcreditlosses
............................................(916,676)(925,860)
Loansandleases,net
...............................................63,156,48365,645,097
Premisesandequipment
................................................633,520594,652
Goodwill............................................................3,524,6253,524,625
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
...................................68,851115,763
Accruedinterestandotherassets
.........................................5,282,2124,448,779
Totalassets
......................................................$85,162,391$83,008,803
LiabilitiesNoninterest-bearingdeposits
............................................$24,661,007$24,240,802
NOWaccounts
.......................................................1,989,4411,979,619
Savingsdeposits
.......................................................36,621,58033,783,947
Timedeposits
........................................................3,523,8384,562,366
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
........................................322,7461,044,519
Totaldeposits
....................................................67,118,61265,611,253
Federalfundspurchasedandagreementstorepurchasesecurities
...............260,4551,074,482
Accruedinterestandotherliabilities
......................................1,368,9221,512,717
Long-termborrowings
.................................................5,108,8704,607,758
Totalliabilities
....................................................73,856,85972,806,210
Shareholders™equity
Preferredstock,$1.00par,1,000,000sharesauthorized;Issuedandoutstanding:
Liquidationpreferenceof$1,000pershare:381,500sharesatDecember31,2013

andDecember31,2012;Liquidationpreferenceof$10,000pershare:50,000

sharesatDecember31,2013andDecember31,2012
.......................881,500872,500
Commonstock,$.50par,250,000,000sharesauthorized,130,516,364sharesissued
atDecember31,2013;128,176,912sharesissuedatDecember31,2012
........65,25864,088
Commonstockissuable,47,231sharesatDecember31,2013;57,409sharesat
December31,2012
..................................................2,9153,473
Additionalpaid-incapital
...............................................3,232,0143,025,520
Retainedearnings
.....................................................7,188,0046,477,276
Accumulatedothercomprehensiveincome(loss),net
........................(64,159)(240,264)
Totalshareholders™equity
...........................................11,305,53210,202,593
Totalliabilitiesandshareholders™equity
...............................$85,162,391$83,008,803
Seeaccompanyingnotestofinancialstatements.
99M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
ConsolidatedStatementofIncome
(Inthousands,exceptpershare)YearEndedDecember31
201320122011Interestincome
Loansandleases,includingfees
........................................$2,734,708$2,704,156$2,522,567
Depositsatbanks
...................................................5,2011,2212,934
Federalfundssold
...................................................1042157
Agreementstoresellsecurities
.........................................10Š132
Tradingaccount
....................................................1,2651,1261,198
Investmentsecurities
Fullytaxable
.....................................................209,244227,116256,057
Exemptfromfederaltaxes
..........................................6,8028,0459,142
Totalinterestincome
............................................2,957,3342,941,6852,792,087
Interestexpense
NOWaccounts
.....................................................1,2871,3431,145
Savingsdeposits
....................................................54,94868,01184,314
Timedeposits
......................................................26,43946,10271,014
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
......................................1,0181,130962
Short-termborrowings
...............................................430
1,2861,030
Long-termborrowings
...............................................199,983225,297243,866
Totalinterestexpense
............................................284,105343,169402,331
Netinterestincome
..................................................2,673,2292,598,5162,389,756
Provisionforcreditlosses
...............................................185,000204,000270,000
Netinterestincomeafterprovisionforcreditlosses
........................2,488,2292,394,5162,119,756
Otherincome
Mortgagebankingrevenues
...........................................331,265349,064166,021
Servicechargesondepositaccounts
....................................446,941446,698455,095
Trustincome
.......................................................496,008471,852332,385
Brokerageservicesincome
............................................65,64759,05956,470
Tradingaccountandforeignexchangegains
..............................40,82835,63427,224
Gainonbankinvestmentsecurities
.....................................56,4579150,187
Totalother-than-temporaryimpairment(ﬁOTTIﬂ)losses
...................(1,884)(32,067)(72,915)
PortionofOTTIlossesrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincome(before
taxes)...........................................................(7,916)(15,755)(4,120)
NetOTTIlossesrecognizedinearnings
...............................(9,800)(47,822)(77,035)
EquityinearningsofBayviewLendingGroupLLC
........................(16,126)(21,511)(24,231)
Otherrevenuesfromoperations
.......................................453,985374,287496,796
Totalotherincome
..............................................1,865,2051,667,2701,582,912
Otherexpense
Salariesandemployeebenefits
.........................................1,355,1781,314,5401,203,993
Equipmentandnetoccupancy
.........................................264,327257,551249,514
Printing,postageandsupplies
.........................................39,55741,92940,917
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets
....................46,91260,63161,617
FDICassessments
...................................................69,584101,110100,230
Othercostsofoperations
.............................................86
0,327733,499821,797
Totalotherexpense
.............................................2,635,8852,509,2602,478,068
Incomebeforetaxes
.................................................1,71
7,5491,552,5261,224,600
Incometaxes
.........................................................579,069523,028365,121
Netincome
.........................................................$
1,138,480$1,029,498$859,479
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders
Basic.............................................................$
1,062,429$953,390$781,743
Diluted...........................................................1,062,496953,429781,765
Netincomepercommonshare
Basic.............................................................$8.26$
7.57$6.37
Diluted...........................................................8.20
7.546.35
Seeaccompanyingnotestofinancialstatements.
100M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
ConsolidatedStatementofComprehensiveIncome
(Inthousands)
YearEndedDecember31
201320122011Netincome
.............................................$
1,138,480$1,029,498$859,479
Othercomprehensiveincome,netoftaxandreclassification
adjustments:Netunrealizedgains(losses)oninvestmentsecurities
.........(2,865)114,8256,687
Reclassificationtoincomeforamortizationofgainson
terminatedcashflowhedges
............................Š
(112)(281)
Foreigncurrencytranslationadjustment
....................381519
(803)Definedbenefitplansliabilityadjustment
...................178,589945(156,824)
Totalothercomprehensiveincome
......................176,105116,177(151,221)
Totalcomprehensiveincome
...........................$1,314,585$1,145,675$708,258
Seeaccompanyingnotestofinancialstatements.
101M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
ConsolidatedStatementofCashFlows
(Inthousands)
YearEndedDecember31
201320122011Cashflowsfromoperatingactivities
Netincome
................................................................................$
1,138,480$1,029,498$859,479
Adjustmentstoreconcilenetincometonetcashprovidedbyoperatingactivities
Provisionforcreditlosses
..................................................................185,000204,000270,000
Depreciationandamortizationofpremisesandequipment
........................................91,46984,37580,304
Amortizationofcapitalizedservicingrights
....................................................65,35459,55555,859
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets
..........................................46,91260,63161,617
Provisionfordeferredincometaxes
..........................................................139,785131,85833,924
Assetwrite-downs
........................................................................17,91863,790170,632
Netgainonsalesofassets
...................................................................(127,890)(6,868)(187,120)
Netchangeinaccruedinterestreceivable,payable..
.............................................(10,523)(13,898)(27,508)
Netchangeinotheraccruedincomeandexpense...
.............................................71,523(200,704)147,465
Netchangeinloansoriginatedforsale
........................................................(674,062)(924,839)238,156
Netchangeintradingaccountassetsandliabilities..
.............................................(11,642)12,58369,438
Netcashprovidedbyoperatingactivities
......................................................932,324499,9811,772,246
Cashflowsfrominvestingactivities
Proceedsfromsalesofinvestmentsecurities
Availableforsale
..........................................................................1,081,80249,5281,909,829
Other..................................................................................13,17278,071116,410
Proceedsfrommaturitiesofinvestmentsecurities
Availableforsale
..........................................................................1,034,5641,585,2601,307,567
Heldtomaturity
..........................................................................287,837329,279272,841
Purchasesofinvestmentsecurities
Availableforsale
..........................................................................(197,931)(28,161)(3,491,759)
Heldtomaturity
..........................................................................(1,977,064)(285,125)(28,454)
Other..................................................................................(9,105)(13,833)(30,727)
Netdecreaseinagreementstoresellsecurities
....................................................ŠŠ
15,000Net(increase)decreaseinloansandleases
.......................................................123,120(5,672,747)(2,233,600)
Net(increase)decreaseininterest-bearingdepositsatbanks
.........................................(1,521,193)25,0152,552,527
Capitalexpenditures,net
.....................................................................(129,563)(91,519)(70,008)
Acquisitions,netofcashacquired
Banksandbankholdingcompanies
..........................................................ŠŠ
178,940PurchaseofWilmingtonTrustCorporationpreferredstock
.........................................ŠŠ
(330,000)Net(increase)decreaseinloanservicingadvances
.................................................(1,004,923)(69,084)55,698
Other,net
.................................................................................95,70632,458144,668
Netcashprovided(used)byinvestingactivities
.................................................(2,203,578)(4,060,858)368,932
Cashflowsfromfinancingactivities
Netincreaseindeposits
......................................................................1,513,8846,230,391742,653
Netincrease(decrease)inshort-termborrowings
.................................................(814,027)292,422(313,050)
Proceedsfromlong-termborrowings
...........................................................799,760ŠŠ
Paymentsonlong-termborrowings
............................................................(261,212)(2,080,167)(1,809,984)
DividendspaidŠcommon
...................................................................(365,349)(357,717)(350,129)
DividendspaidŠpreferred
...................................................................(53,450)(53,450)(48,203)
Proceedsfromissuanceofpreferredstock
........................................................ŠŠ
495,000Redemptionofpreferredstock
................................................................ŠŠ
(370,000)Other,net
.................................................................................137,96763,61631,177
Netcashprovided(used)byfinancingactivities
.................................................957,5734,095,095(1,622,536)
Netincrease(decrease)incashandcashequivalents
.................................................(313,681)534,218518,642
Cashandcashequivalentsatbeginningofyear
......................................................1,986,6151,452,397933,755
Cashandcashequivalentsatendofyear
...........................................................$
1,672,934$1,986,615$1,452,397
Supplementaldisclosureofcashflowinformation
Interestreceivedduringtheyear
...............................................................$
2,894,699$2,931,409$2,807,071
Interestpaidduringtheyear
..................................................................301,734371,887440,810
Incometaxespaidduringtheyear
..............................................................389,008405,598251,810
Supplementalscheduleofnoncashinvestingandfinancingactivities
Securitizationofresidentialmortgageloansallocatedto
Available-for-saleinvestmentsecurities
........................................................$
1,690,490$Š$Š
Held-to-maturityinvestmentsecurities
........................................................1,245,444ŠŠ
Capitalizedservicingrights
.................................................................30,879ŠŠ
Realestateacquiredinsettlementofloans
.......................................................44,80448,93281,588
AcquisitionsFairvalueof
Assetsacquired(noncash)
................................................................ŠŠ
10,666,102Liabilitiesassumed
......................................................................ŠŠ
10,044,555Commonstockissued
...................................................................ŠŠ
405,557Seeaccompanyingnotestofinancialstatements.
102M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
ConsolidatedStatementofChangesinShareholders™Equity
(Inthousands,exceptpershare)
PreferredStockCommonStockCommonStockIssuableAdditionalPaid-inCapitalRetainedEarningsAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome(Loss),
NetTreasuryStockTotal2011BalanceŠJanuary1,2011
.................$
740,65760,1984,1892,398,6155,426,701(205,220)(67,445)8,357,695
Totalcomprehensiveincome
................ŠŠŠŠ
859,479(151,221)Š708,258
AcquisitionofWilmingtonTrustCorporationŠ
commonstockissued....................Š
2,348Š403,209ŠŠŠ405,557
PartialredemptionofSeriesApreferredstock...(370,000)ŠŠŠŠŠŠ(370,000)

ConversionofSeriesBpreferredstockinto
433,144sharesofcommonstock
...........(26,500)192Š21,754ŠŠ4,554Š
IssuanceofSeriesDpreferredstock
..........500,000ŠŠ(5,000)ŠŠŠ495,000
Preferredstockcashdividends
...............ŠŠŠŠ
(48,203)ŠŠ(48,203)
Amortizationofpreferredstockdiscount
......20,428ŠŠŠ(20,428)ŠŠŠ
Stock-basedcompensationplans:
Compensationexpense,net
...............Š50Š
12,196ŠŠ31,66643,912
Exercisesofstockoptions,net
.............Š48Š
(4,300)ŠŠ30,10625,854
Directors™stockplan
....................Š6Š813ŠŠ612
1,431Deferredcompensationplans,net,including
dividendequivalents
..................ŠŠ
(117)(164)(188)Š50738
Other.................................ŠŠŠ
1,863ŠŠŠ1,863
CommonstockcashdividendsŠ$2.80per
share.................................ŠŠŠŠ
(350,196)ŠŠ(350,196)
BalanceŠDecember31,2011
..............$
864,58562,8424,0722,828,9865,867,165(356,441)Š9,271,209
2012
Totalcomprehensiveincome
................ŠŠŠŠ
1,029,498116,177Š1,145,675
Preferredstockcashdividends
...............ŠŠŠŠ
(53,450)ŠŠ(53,450)
Amortizationofpreferredstockdiscount
......7,915ŠŠŠ(7,915)ŠŠŠ
Stock-basedcompensationplans:
Compensationexpense,net
...............Š229Š
47,937ŠŠŠ48,166
Exercisesofstockoptions,net
.............Š928Š
135,017ŠŠŠ135,945
Stockpurchaseplan
.....................Š75Š
10,042ŠŠŠ10,117
Directors™stockplan
....................Š9Š
1,471ŠŠŠ1,480
Deferredcompensationplans,net,including
dividendequivalents
..................Š5
(599)593(160)ŠŠ(161)
Other.................................ŠŠŠ
1,474ŠŠŠ1,474
CommonstockcashdividendsŠ$2.80per
share.................................ŠŠŠŠ
(357,862)ŠŠ(357,862)
BalanceŠDecember31,2012
..............$
872,50064,0883,4733,025,5206,477,276(240,264)Š10,202,593
2013
Totalcomprehensiveincome
................ŠŠŠŠ
1,138,480176,105Š1,314,585
Preferredstockcashdividends
...............ŠŠŠŠ
(53,450)ŠŠ(53,450)
Amortizationofpreferredstockdiscount
......9,000ŠŠŠ(9,000)ŠŠŠ
Exerciseof407,542SeriesCstockwarrantsinto
186,589sharesofcommonstock
...........Š93Š
(93)ŠŠŠŠ
Exerciseof69,127SeriesAstockwarrantsinto
25,427sharesofcommonstock
............Š13Š
(13)ŠŠŠŠ
Stock-basedcompensationplans:
Compensationexpense,net
...............Š137Š
37,890ŠŠŠ38,027
Exercisesofstockoptions,net
.............Š914Š
163,891ŠŠŠ164,805
Directors™stockplan
....................Š8Š
1,636ŠŠŠ1,644
Deferredcompensationplans,net,including
dividendequivalents
..................Š5
(558)575(131)ŠŠ(109)
Other.................................ŠŠŠ
2,608ŠŠŠ2,608
CommonstockcashdividendsŠ$2.80per
share.................................ŠŠŠŠ
(365,171)ŠŠ(365,171)
BalanceŠDecember31,2013
..............$
881,50065,2582,9153,232,0147,188,004(64,159)Š11,305,532
Seeaccompanyingnotestofinancialstatements.
103M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatements
1.Significantaccountingpolicies
M&TBankCorporation(ﬁM&Tﬂ)isabankholdingcompanyheadquarteredinBuffalo,NewYork.
Throughsubsidiaries,M&Tprovidesindividuals,corporationsandotherbusinesses,andinstitutionswith

commercialandretailbankingservices,includingloansanddeposits,trust,mortgagebanking,asset

management,insuranceandotherfinancialservices.Bankingactivitiesarelargelyfocusedonconsumers

residinginNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,Delaware,VirginiaandtheDistrictofColumbiaand

onsmallandmedium-sizebusinessesbasedinthoseareas.BankingservicesarealsoprovidedinWest

VirginiaandNewJersey,whilecertainsubsidiariesalsoconductactivitiesinotherareas.
TheaccountingandreportingpoliciesofM&Tandsubsidiaries(ﬁtheCompanyﬂ)conformto
generallyacceptedaccountingprinciples(ﬁGAAPﬂ)andtogeneralpracticeswithinthebankingindustry.

ThepreparationoffinancialstatementsinconformitywithGAAPrequiresmanagementtomakeestimates

andassumptionsthataffectthereportedamountsofassetsandliabilitiesanddisclosureofcontingentassets

andliabilitiesatthedateofthefinancialstatementsandthereportedamountsofrevenuesandexpenses

duringthereportingperiod.Actualresultscoulddifferfromthoseestimates.Themoresignificant

accountingpoliciesareasfollows:
ConsolidationTheconsolidatedfinancialstatementsincludeM&Tandallofitssubsidiaries.Allsignificantintercompany

accountsandtransactionsofconsolidatedsubsidiarieshavebeeneliminatedinconsolidation.Thefinancial

statementsofM&Tincludedinnote25reportinvestmentsinsubsidiariesundertheequitymethod.

InformationaboutsomelimitedpurposeentitiesthatareaffiliatesoftheCompanybutarenotincludedin

theconsolidatedfinancialstatementsappearsinnote19.
ConsolidatedStatementofCashFlows
Forpurposesofthisstatement,cashandduefrombanksandfederalfundssoldareconsideredcashand

cashequivalents.
Securitiespurchasedunderagreementstoresellandsecuritiessoldunderagreementstorepurchase
Securitiespurchasedunderagreementstoresellandsecuritiessoldunderagreementstorepurchaseare

treatedascollateralizedfinancingtransactionsandarerecordedatamountsequaltothecashorother

considerationexchanged.ItisgenerallytheCompany™spolicytotakepossessionofcollateralpledgedto

secureagreementstoresell.
Tradingaccount
Financialinstrumentsusedfortradingpurposesarestatedatfairvalue.Realizedgainsandlossesand

unrealizedchangesinfairvalueoffinancialinstrumentsutilizedintradingactivitiesareincludedinﬁtrading

accountandforeignexchangegainsﬂintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.
Investmentsecurities
Investmentsindebtsecuritiesareclassifiedasheldtomaturityandstatedatamortizedcostwhen

managementhasthepositiveintentandabilitytoholdsuchsecuritiestomaturity.Investmentsinotherdebt

securitiesandequitysecuritieshavingreadilydeterminablefairvaluesareclassifiedasavailableforsaleand

statedatestimatedfairvalue.Amortizationofpremiumsandaccretionofdiscountsforinvestment

securitiesavailableforsaleandheldtomaturityareincludedininterestincome.
OthersecuritiesarestatedatcostandincludestockoftheFederalReserveBankofNewYorkandthe
FederalHomeLoanBank(ﬁFHLBﬂ)ofNewYork.
Thecostbasisofindividualsecuritiesiswrittendownthroughachargetoearningswhendeclinesin
valuebelowamortizedcostareconsideredtobeotherthantemporary.Incaseswherefairvalueislessthan

amortizedcostandtheCompanyintendstoselladebtsecurity,itismorelikelythannottoberequiredto

selladebtsecuritybeforerecoveryofitsamortizedcostbasis,ortheCompanydoesnotexpecttorecover

theentireamortizedcostbasisofadebtsecurity,another-than-temporaryimpairmentisconsideredtohave

occurred.IftheCompanyintendstosellthedebtsecurityormorelikelythannotwillberequiredtosellthe
104securitybeforerecoveryofitsamortizedcostbasis,theother-than-temporaryimpairmentisrecognizedin
earningsequaltotheentiredifferencebetweenthedebtsecurity™samortizedcostbasisanditsfairvalue.If

theCompanydoesnotexpecttorecovertheentireamortizedcostbasisofthesecurity,theCompanydoes

notintendtosellthesecurityanditisnotmorelikelythannotthattheCompanywillberequiredtosellthe

securitybeforerecoveryofitsamortizedcostbasis,theother-than-temporaryimpairmentisseparatedinto

(a)theamountrepresentingthecreditlossand(b)theamountrelatedtoallotherfactors.Theamountof

theother-than-temporaryimpairmentrelatedtothecreditlossisrecognizedinearningswhiletheamount

relatedtootherfactorsisrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincome,netofapplicabletaxes.Subsequently,

theCompanyaccountsfortheother-than-temporarilyimpaireddebtsecurityasifthesecurityhadbeen

purchasedonthemeasurementdateoftheother-than-temporaryimpairmentatanamortizedcostbasis

equaltothepreviousamortizedcostbasislesstheother-than-temporaryimpairmentrecognizedin

earnings.Thecostbasisofindividualequitysecuritiesiswrittendowntoestimatedfairvaluethrougha

chargetoearningswhendeclinesinvaluebelowcostareconsideredtobeotherthantemporary.Realized

gainsandlossesonthesalesofinvestmentsecuritiesaredeterminedusingthespecificidentification

method.Loansandleases
TheCompany™saccountingmethodsforloansdependsonwhethertheloanswereoriginatedbythe

Companyorwereacquiredinabusinesscombination.
Originatedloansandleases

Interestincomeonloansisaccruedonalevelyield
method.Loansareplacedonnonaccrualstatusand
previouslyaccruedinterestthereonischargedagainst
incomewhenprincipalorinterestisdelinquent90days,
unlessmanagementdeterminesthattheloanstatuscle
arlywarrantsothertreatment.Nonaccrualcommercial
loansandcommercialrealestateloansarereturnedtoaccrualstatuswhenborrowershavedemonstratedan

abilitytorepaytheirloansandtherearenodelinquentprincipalandinterestpayments.Consumerloansnot

securedbyresidentialrealestatearereturnedtoaccrualstatuswhenallpastdueprincipalandinterest

paymentshavebeenpaidbytheborrower.Loanssecured
byresidentialrealestatearereturnedtoaccrual
statuswhentheyaredeemedtohaveaninsignificantdelayinpaymentsof90daysorless.Loanbalancesare

chargedoffwhenitbecomesevidentthatsuchbalancesarenotfullycollectible.Forcommercialloansand

commercialrealestateloans,charge-offsarerecognizedafteranassessmentbycreditpersonnelofthecapacity

andwillingnessoftheborrowertorepay,theestimatedvalueofanycollateral,andanyotherpotentialsources

ofrepayment.Acharge-offisrecognizedwhen,aftersuchassessment,itbecomesevidentthattheloanbalance

isnotfullycollectible.Forloanssecuredbyresidentialrealestate,theexcessoftheloanbalancesoverthenet

realizablevalueofthepropertycollateralizingtheloanischarged-offwhentheloanbecomes150days

delinquent.Consumerloansaregenerallycharged-of
fwhentheloansare91to180dayspastdue,depending
onwhethertheloaniscollateralizedandthestatusofrepossessionactivitieswithrespecttosuchcollateral.

Loanfeesandcertaindirectloanoriginationcostsared
eferredandrecognizedasaninterestyieldadjustment
overthelifeoftheloan.Netdeferredfeeshavebeenincludedinunearneddiscountasareductionofloans

outstanding.CommitmentstosellrealestateloansareutilizedbytheCompanytohedgetheexposureto

changesinfairvalueofrealestateloansheldforsale.Thecarryingvalueofhedgedrealestateloansheldforsale

recordedintheconsolidatedbalancesheetincludeschangesinestimatedfairmarketvalueduringthehedge

period,typicallyfromthedateofclosethroughthesaledate.Valuationadjustmentsmadeontheseloansand

commitmentsareincludedinﬁmortgagebankingrevenues.ﬂ
Exceptforconsumerandresidentialmortgageloansthatareconsideredsmallerbalancehomogenous
loansandareevaluatedcollectively,theCompanyconsidersaloantobeimpairedforpurposesofapplying

GAAPwhen,basedoncurrentinformationandevents,itisprobablethattheCompanywillbeunableto

collectallamountsaccordingtothecontractualtermsoftheloanagreementortheloanisdelinquent

90days.Regardlessofloantype,theCompanyconsidersaloantobeimpairedifitqualifiesasatroubled

debtrestructuring.Impairedloansareclassifiedaseithernonaccrualorasloansrenegotiatedatbelow

marketrateswhichcontinuetoaccrueinterest,providedthatacreditassessmentoftheborrower™sfinancial

conditionresultsinanexpectationoffullrepaymentunderthemodifiedcontractualterms.Certainloans

greaterthan90daysdelinquentarenotconsideredimpairediftheyarewell-securedandintheprocessof

collection.Loanslessthan90daysdelinquentaredeemedtohaveaninsignificantdelayinpaymentandare

generallynotconsideredimpaired.Impairmentofaloanismeasuredbasedonthepresentvalueofexpected

futurecashflowsdiscountedattheloan™seffectiveinterestrate,theloan™sobservablemarketprice,orthe
105fairvalueofcollateraliftheloaniscollateral-dependent.Interestreceivedonimpairedloansplacedon
nonaccrualstatusisgenerallyappliedtoreducethecarryingvalueoftheloanor,ifprincipalisconsidered

fullycollectible,recognizedasinterestincome.
Residualvalueestimatesforcommercialleasesaregenerallydeterminedthroughinternalorexternal
reviewsoftheleasedproperty.TheCompanyreviewscommercialleaseresidualvaluesatleastannuallyand

recognizesresidualvalueimpairmentsdeemedtobeotherthantemporary.
Loansandleasesacquiredinabusinesscombination

LoansacquiredinabusinesscombinationsubsequenttoDecember31,2008arerecordedatfairvaluewith

nocarry-overofanacquiredentity™spreviouslyestablishedallowanceforcreditlosses.Theexcessofcash

flowsexpectedatacquisitionovertheestimatedfairvalueofacquiredloansisrecognizedasinterestincome

overtheremaininglivesoftheloans.Subsequentdecreasesintheexpectedprincipalcashflowsrequirethe

CompanytoevaluatetheneedforadditionstotheCompany™sallowanceforcreditlosses.Subsequent

improvementsinexpectedcashflowsresultfirstintherecoveryofanyrelatedallowanceforcreditlosses

andtheninrecognitionofadditionalinterestincomeoverthethen-remaininglivesoftheloans.
Purchasedimpairedloansrepresentspecificallyidentifiedloanswithevidenceofcreditdeterioration
forwhichitwasprobableatacquisitionthattheCompanywouldbeunabletocollectallcontractual

principalandinterestpayments.
Allowanceforcreditlosses
Theallowanceforcreditlossesrepresents,inmanagement™sjudgment,theamountoflossesinherentinthe

loanandleaseportfolioasofthebalancesheetdate.Theallowanceisdeterminedbymanagement™s

evaluationoftheloanandleaseportfoliobasedonsuchfactorsasthedifferingeconomicrisksassociated

witheachloancategory,thecurrentfinancialconditionofspecificborrowers,theeconomicenvironmentin

whichborrowersoperate,thelevelofdelinquentloans,thevalueofanycollateraland,whereapplicable,the

existenceofanyguaranteesorindemnifications.Theeffectsofprobabledecreasesinexpectedprincipalcash

flowsonacquiredloansarealsoconsideredintheestablishmentoftheallowanceforcreditlosses.
Assetstakeninforeclosureofdefaultedloans
Assetstakeninforeclosureofdefaultedloansareprimarilycomprisedofcommercialandresidentialreal

propertyandareincludedinﬁotherassetsﬂintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Uponacquisitionofassets

takeninsatisfactionofadefaultedloan,theexcessoftheremainingloanbalanceovertheasset™sestimated

fairvaluelesscoststosellischargedoffagainsttheallowanceforcreditlosses.Subsequentdeclinesinvalue

oftheassetsarerecognizedasﬁothercostsofoperationsﬂintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.
Premisesandequipment
Premisesandequipmentarestatedatcostlessaccumulateddepreciation.Depreciationexpenseiscomputed

principallyusingthestraight-linemethodovertheestimatedusefullivesoftheassets.
Capitalizedservicingrights
Capitalizedservicingassetsareincludedinﬁotherassetsﬂintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Separately

recognizedservicingassetsareinitiallymeasuredatfairvalue.TheCompanyusestheamortizationmethod

tosubsequentlymeasureservicingassets.Underthatmethod,capitalizedservicingassetsarechargedto

expenseinproportiontoandovertheperiodofestimatednetservicingincome.
Toestimatethefairvalueofservicingrights,theCompanyconsidersmarketpricesforsimilarassets
andthepresentvalueofexpectedfuturecashflowsassociatedwiththeservicingrightscalculatedusing

assumptionsthatmarketparticipantswoulduseinestimatingfutureservicingincomeandexpense.Such

assumptionsincludeestimatesofthecostofservicingloans,loandefaultrates,anappropriatediscountrate,

andprepaymentspeeds.Forpurposesofevaluatingandmeasuringimpairmentofcapitalizedservicing

rights,theCompanystratifiessuchassetsbasedonthepredominantriskcharacteristicsoftheunderlying

financialinstrumentsthatareexpectedtohavethemostimpactonprojectedprepayments,costofservicing

andotherfactorsaffectingfuturecashflowsassociatedwiththeservicingrights.Suchfactorsmayinclude

financialassetorloantype,noterateandterm.Theamountofimpairmentrecognizedistheamountby

whichthecarryingvalueofthecapitalizedservicingrightsforastratumexceedsestimatedfairvalue.

Impairmentisrecognizedthroughavaluationallowance.
106Salesandsecuritizationsoffinancialassets
TransfersoffinancialassetsforwhichtheCompanyhassurrenderedcontrolofthefinancialassetsare

accountedforassales.InterestsinasaleoffinancialassetsthatcontinuetobeheldbytheCompany,

includingservicingrights,aremeasuredatfairvalue.Thefairvaluesofretaineddebtsecuritiesaregenerally

determinedthroughreferencetoindependentpricinginformation.Thefairvaluesofretainedservicing

rightsandanyotherretainedinterestsaredeterminedbasedonthepresentvalueofexpectedfuturecash

flowsassociatedwiththoseinterestsandbyreferencetomarketpricesforsimilarassets.
Securitizationstructurestypicallyrequiretheuseofspecial-purposetruststhatareconsidered
variableinterestentities.Avariableinterestentityisincludedintheconsolidatedfinancialstatementsifthe

Companyhasthepowertodirecttheactivitiesthatmostsignificantlyimpactthevariableinterestentity™s

economicperformanceandhastheobligationtoabsorblossesortherighttoreceivebenefitsofthevariable

interestentitythatcouldpotentiallybesignificanttothatentity.
Goodwillandcoredepositandotherintangibleassets
Goodwillrepresentstheexcessofthecostofanacquiredentityoverthefairvalueoftheidentifiablenet

assetsacquired.Goodwillisnotamortized,butratheristestedforimpairmentatleastannuallyatthe

reportingunitlevel,whichiseitheratthesameleveloronelevelbelowanoperatingsegment.Other

acquiredintangibleassetswithfinitelives,suchascoredepositintangibles,areinitiallyrecordedatestimated

fairvalueandareamortizedovertheirestimatedlives.Coredepositandotherintangibleassetsaregenerally

amortizedusingacceleratedmethodsoverestimatedusefullivesoffivetotenyears.TheCompany

periodicallyassesseswhethereventsorchangesincircumstancesindicatethatthecarryingamountsofcore

depositandotherintangibleassetsmaybeimpaired.
Derivativefinancialinstruments
TheCompanyaccountsforderivativefinancialinstrumentsatfairvalue.Ifcertainconditionsaremet,a

derivativemaybespecificallydesignatedas(a)ahedgeoftheexposuretochangesinthefairvalueofa

recognizedassetorliabilityoranunrecognizedfirmcommitment,(b)ahedgeoftheexposuretovariable

cashflowsofaforecastedtransactionor(c)ahedgeoftheforeigncurrencyexposureofanetinvestmentina

foreignoperation,anunrecognizedfirmcommitment,anavailable-for-salesecurity,oraforeigncurrency

denominatedforecastedtransaction.
TheCompanyutilizesinterestrateswapagreementsaspartofthemanagementofinterestrateriskto
modifytherepricingcharacteristicsofcertainportionsofitsportfoliosofearningassetsandinterest-bearing

liabilities.Forsuchagreements,amountsreceivableorpayablearerecognizedasaccruedunderthetermsof

theagreementandthenetdifferentialisrecordedasanadjustmenttointerestincomeorexpenseofthe

relatedassetorliability.Interestrateswapagreementsmaybedesignatedaseitherfairvaluehedgesorcash

flowhedges.Inafairvaluehedge,thefairvaluesoftheinterestrateswapagreementsandchangesinthefair

valuesofthehedgeditemsarerecordedintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheetwiththe

correspondinggainorlossrecognizedincurrentearnings.Thedifferencebetweenchangesinthefairvalues

ofinterestrateswapagreementsandthehedgeditemsrepresentshedgeineffectivenessandisrecordedin

ﬁotherrevenuesfromoperationsﬂintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.Inacashflowhedge,the

effectiveportionofthederivative™sunrealizedgainorlossisinitiallyrecordedasacomponentofother

comprehensiveincomeandsubsequentlyreclassifiedintoearningswhentheforecastedtransactionaffects

earnings.Theineffectiveportionoftheunrealizedgainorlossisreportedinﬁotherrevenuesfrom

operationsﬂimmediately.
TheCompanyutilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloanstohedgetheexposuretochangesinthe
fairvalueofrealestateloansheldforsale.Commitmentstooriginaterealestateloanstobeheldforsaleand

commitmentstosellrealestateloansaregenerallyrecordedintheconsolidatedbalancesheetatestimated

fairmarketvalue.
Derivativeinstrumentsnotrelatedtomortgagebankingactivities,includingfinancialfutures
commitmentsandinterestrateswapagreements,thatdonotsatisfythehedgeaccountingrequirementsare

recordedatfairvalueandaregenerallyclassifiedastradingaccountassetsorliabilitieswithresultant

changesinfairvaluebeingrecognizedinﬁtradingaccountandforeignexchangegainsﬂintheconsolidated

statementofincome.
107Stock-basedcompensation
Stock-basedcompensationexpenseisrecognizedoverthevestingperiodofthestock-basedgrantbasedon

theestimatedgrantdatevalueofthestock-basedcompensationthatisexpectedtovest,exceptthatthe

recognitionofcompensationcostsisacceleratedforstock-basedawardsgrantedtoretirement-eligible

employeesandemployeeswhowillbecomeretirement-eligiblepriortofullvestingoftheawardbecausethe

Company™sincentivecompensationplanallowsforvestingatthetimeanemployeeretires.
Incometaxes
Deferredtaxassetsandliabilitiesarerecognizedforthefuturetaxeffectsattributabletodifferencesbetween

thefinancialstatementvalueofexistingassetsandliabilitiesandtheirrespectivetaxbasesand

carryforwards.Deferredtaxassetsandliabilitiesaremeasuredusingenactedtaxratesandlaws.
TheCompanyevaluatesuncertaintaxpositionsusingthetwo-stepprocessrequiredbyGAAP.The
firststeprequiresadeterminationofwhetheritismorelikelythannotthatataxpositionwillbesustained

uponexamination,includingresolutionofanyrelatedappealsorlitigationprocesses,basedonthetechnical

meritsoftheposition.Underthesecondstep,ataxpositionthatmeetsthemore-likely-than-not

recognitionthresholdismeasuredatthelargestamountofbenefitthatisgreaterthanfiftypercentlikelyof

beingrealizeduponultimatesettlement.
Earningspercommonshare
Basicearningspercommonshareexcludedilutionandarecomputedbydividingincomeavailableto

commonshareholdersbytheweighted-averagenumberofcommonsharesoutstanding(exclusiveofshares

representedbytheunvestedportionofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunitgrants)andcommonshares

issuableunderdeferredcompensationarrangementsduringtheperiod.Dilutedearningspercommonshare

reflectsharesrepresentedbytheunvestedportionofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunitgrantsandthe

potentialdilutionthatcouldoccurifsecuritiesorothercontractstoissuecommonstockwereexercisedor

convertedintocommonstockorresultedintheissuanceofcommonstockthatthensharedinearnings.

Proceedsassumedtohavebeenreceivedonsuchexerciseorconversionareassumedtobeusedtopurchase

sharesofM&Tcommonstockattheaveragemarketpriceduringtheperiod,asrequiredbytheﬁtreasury

stockmethodﬂofaccounting.
GAAPrequiresthatunvestedshare-basedpaymentawardsthatcontainnonforfeitablerightsto
dividendsordividendequivalents(whetherpaidorunpaid)shallbeconsideredparticipatingsecuritiesand

shallbeincludedinthecomputationofearningspercommonsharepursuanttothetwo-classmethod.The

Companyhasissuedstock-basedcompensationawardsintheformofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstock

unitsthatcontainsuchrightsand,accordingly,theCompany™searningspercommonsharearecalculated

usingthetwo-classmethod.
Treasurystock
RepurchasesofsharesofM&Tcommonstockarerecordedatcostasareductionofshareholders™equity.

Reissuancesofsharesoftreasurystockarerecordedataveragecost.
2.Acquisitions
OnAugust27,2012,M&TannouncedthatithadenteredintoadefinitiveagreementwithHudsonCity

Bancorp,Inc.(ﬁHudsonCityﬂ),headquarteredinParamus,NewJersey,underwhichHudsonCitywillbe

acquiredbyM&T.Pursuanttothetermsoftheagreement,HudsonCityshareholderswillreceive

considerationforeachcommonshareofHudsonCityinanamountvaluedat.08403ofanM&Tsharein

theformofeitherM&Tcommonstockorcash,basedontheelectionofeachHudsonCityshareholder,

subjecttoprorationasspecifiedinthemergeragreement(whichprovidesforanaggregatesplitoftotal

considerationof60%commonstockofM&Tand40%cash).AsofDecember31,2013totalconsideration

tobepaidwasvaluedatapproximately$5.0billion.
AtDecember31,2013,HudsonCityhad$38.6billionofassets,including$24.2billionofloansand
$9.3billionofinvestmentsecurities,and$33.9billionofliabilities,including$21.5billionofdeposits.The

mergerhasreceivedtheapprovalofthecommonshareholdersofM&TandHudsonCity.However,the

mergerissubjecttoanumberofotherconditions,includingregulatoryapprovals.
OnJune17,2013,M&TandManufacturersandTradersTrustCompany(ﬁM&TBankﬂ),M&T™s
principalbankingsubsidiary,enteredintoawrittenagreementwiththeFederalReserveBankofNewYork

(ﬁFederalReserveBankﬂ).Underthetermsoftheagreement,M&TandM&TBankarerequiredtosubmit
108totheFederalReserveBankarevisedcomplianceriskmanagementprogramdesignedtoensurecompliance
withtheBankSecrecyActandanti-money-launderinglawsandregulationsandtotakecertainothersteps

toenhancetheircompliancepractices.TheCompanyhascommencedamajorinitiative,includingthe

hiringofoutsideconsultingfirms,intendedtofullyaddresstheFederalReserveBank™sconcerns.Inviewof

thetimeframerequiredtoimplementthisinitiative,demonstrateitsefficacytothesatisfactionoftheFederal

ReserveBankandotherwisemeetanyotherregulatoryrequirementsthatmaybeimposedinconnection

withthesematters,M&TandHudsonCityextendedthedateafterwhicheitherpartymayelecttoterminate

themergeragreementifthemergerhasnotyetbeencompletedtoDecember31,2014.Nevertheless,there

canbenoassurancesthatthemergerwillbecompletedbythatdate.
OnMay16,2011,M&TacquiredalloftheoutstandingcommonstockofWilmingtonTrust
Corporation(ﬁWilmingtonTrustﬂ),headquarteredinWilmington,Delaware,inastock-for-stock

transaction.WilmingtonTrustoperated55bankingofficesinDelawareandPennsylvaniaatthedateof

acquisition.TheresultsofoperationsacquiredintheWilmingtonTrusttransactionhavebeenincludedin

theCompany™sfinancialresultssinceMay16,2011.WilmingtonTrustshareholdersreceived.051372shares

ofM&TcommonstockinexchangeforeachshareofWilmingtonTrustcommonstock,resultinginM&T

issuingatotalof4,694,486commonshareswithanacquisitiondatefairvalueof$406million.
TheWilmingtonTrusttransactionhasbeenaccountedforusingtheacquisitionmethodof
accountingand,accordingly,assetsacquired,liabilitiesassumedandconsiderationexchangedwererecorded

atestimatedfairvalueontheacquisitiondate.Assetsacquiredtotaledapproximately$10.8billion,including

$6.4billionofloansandleases(includingapproximately$3.2billionofcommercialrealestateloans,$1.4

billionofcommercialloansandleases,$1.1billionofconsumerloansand$680millionofresidentialreal

estateloans).Liabilitiesassumedaggregated$10.0billion,including$8.9billionofdeposits.Thecommon

stockissuedinthetransactionadded$406milliontoM&T™scommonshareholders™equity.Immediately

priortotheclosingoftheWilmingtonTrusttransaction,M&Tredeemedthe$330millionofpreferredstock

issuedbyWilmingtonTrustaspartoftheTroubledAssetReliefProgramŠCapitalPurchaseProgram

(ﬁTARPﬂ)oftheU.S.DepartmentofTreasury(ﬁU.S.Treasuryﬂ).Inconnectionwiththeacquisition,the

Companyrecorded$112millionofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets.Thecoredepositandother

intangibleassetsaregenerallybeingamortizedoverperiodsof5to7yearsusingacceleratedmethods.There

wasnogoodwillrecordedasaresultofthetransaction,however,anon-taxablegainof$65millionwas

realized,whichrepresentedtheexcessofthefairvalueofassetsacquiredlessliabilitiesassumedover

considerationexchanged.TheacquisitionofWilmingtonTrustaddedtoM&T™smarket-leadingpositionin

theMid-AtlanticregionbygivingM&TtheleadingdepositmarketshareinDelaware.
ThefollowingtabledisclosestheimpactofWilmingtonTrust(excludingtheimpactofthemerger-
relatedgainandexpenses)sincetheacquisitiononMay16,2011throughtheendof2011.Thetablealso

presentscertainproformainformationasifWilmingtonTrusthadbeenincludedintheCompany™s

consolidatedfinancialresultsforallof2011.TheseresultscombinethehistoricalresultsofWilmington

TrustintotheCompany™sconsolidatedstatementofincomeand,whilecertainadjustmentsweremadefor

theestimatedimpactofcertainfairvaluationadjustmentsandotheracquisition-relatedactivity,theyarenot

indicativeofwhatwouldhaveoccurredhadtheacquisitiontakenplaceearlierthanindicated.Inparticular,

noadjustmentshavebeenmadetoeliminatetheamountofWilmingtonTrust™sprovisionforcreditlosses

of$42millionin2011ortheimpactofother-than-temporaryimpairmentlossesrecognizedbyWilmington

Trustof$5millionin2011thatmaynothavebeennecessaryhadtheacquiredloansandinvestment

securitiesbeenrecordedatfairvalueasofthebeginningof2011.Expensesrelatedtosystemsconversions

andothercostsofintegrationof$84millionandthe$65milliongainrecordedinconnectionwiththe

acquisitionareincludedinthe2011proformaresults.Additionally,theCompanyhasachievedfurther

operatingcostsavingsandotherbusinesssynergiesasaresultoftheacquisitionwhicharenotreflectedin

theproformaamountsthatfollow.
ActualSince
AcquisitionThroughDecember31,2011
ProForma
YearEnded
December31,2011
(Inthousands)
Totalrevenues(a)
.............................................$380,945$4,202,109
Netincome
..................................................18,586808,696
(a)Representsnetinterestincomeplusotherincome.
109TheCompanyincurredmerger-relatedexpensesin2013associatedwiththependingHudsonCity
acquisitionandin2012and2011predominantlyassociatedwiththeWilmingtonTrustacquisitionrelated

toactualorplannedsystemsconversionsandothercostsofintegratingandconformingacquiredoperations

withandintotheCompany.Thoseexpensesconsistedlargelyofprofessionalservicesandothertemporary

helpfeesassociatedwiththeactualorplannedconversionofsystemsand/orintegrationofoperations;costs

relatedtobranchandofficeconsolidations;costsrelatedtoterminationofexistingcontractual

arrangementsforvariousservices;initialmarketingandpromotionexpensesdesignedtointroduceM&T

Banktoitsnewcustomers;severance(forformeremployeesofacquiredentities)andincentive

compensationcosts;travelcosts;andprinting,postage,suppliesandothercostsofplanningforor

completingthetransactionsandcommencingoperationsinnewmarketsandoffices.
Asummaryofmerger-relatedexpensesincludedintheconsolidatedstatementofincomeforthe
yearsendedDecember31,2013,2012and2011follows:
201320122011(Inthousands)
Salariesandemployeebenefits
......................................$836
$4,997$16,131
Equipmentandnetoccupancy
......................................69015412
Printing,postageandsupplies
......................................1,825Š2,663
Othercostsofoperations
..........................................9,0134,86764,481
$12,364$9,879$83,687
3.Investmentsecurities
Theamortizedcostandestimatedfairvalueofinvestmentsecuritieswereasfollows:
AmortizedCostGrossUnrealizedGainsGrossUnrealizedLossesEstimatedFairValue
(Inthousands)
December31,2013
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:

U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
.................$
37,396$382$2$37,776
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
.......10,484333610,811
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...............4,123,43561,00119,3504,165,086
Privatelyissued
...............................1,46838751,850
Collateralizeddebtobligations
....................42,27421,66685763,083
Otherdebtsecurities
............................137,8281,72219,465120,085
Equitysecurities
................................91,48041,842227133,095
4,444,365127,33339,9124,531,786
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity:
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
.......169,6843,744135173,293
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...............3,567,90516,16065,1493,518,916
Privatelyissued
...............................219,628Š60,623159,005
Otherdebtsecurities
............................8,913ŠŠ8,913
3,966,13019,904125,9073,860,127
Othersecurities
................................298,581ŠŠ298,581
Total.........................................$8,709,076$147,237$165,819$8,690,494
110AmortizedCostGrossUnrealizedGainsGrossUnrealizedLossesEstimatedFairValue
(Inthousands)
December31,2012
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:

U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
.................$
38,422$922$Š$39,344
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
.......20,375534820,901
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...............3,163,210208,0602293,371,041
Privatelyissued
...............................1,142,2877,272125,6731,023,886
Collateralizeddebtobligations
....................43,22819,6631,02261,869
Otherdebtsecurities
............................136,6032,24726,900111,950
Equitysecurities
................................98,94514,9213,420110,446
4,643,070253,619157,2524,739,437
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity:
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
.......182,1037,64727189,723
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...............597,34031,727Š629,067
Privatelyissued
...............................242,37816094,900147,638
Otherdebtsecurities
............................10,455ŠŠ10,455
1,032,27639,53494,927976,883
Othersecurities
................................302,648ŠŠ302,648
Total.........................................$5,977,994$293,153$252,179$6,018,968
Noinvestmentinsecuritiesofasinglenon-U.S.Governmentorgovernmentagencyissuerexceeded
tenpercentofshareholders™equityatDecember31,2013.
AsofDecember31,2013,thelatestavailableinvestmentratingsofallobligationsofstatesand
politicalsubdivisions,privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities,collateralizeddebtobligationsandother

debtsecuritieswere:
AmortizedCostEstimatedFairValue
AverageCreditRatingofFairValueAmount
AorBetter
BBBBBBorLess
NotRated
(Inthousands)
Obligationsofstatesandpolitical
subdivisions.....................$180,168$184,104$152,704$6,359$200$Š$24,841
Privatelyissuedmortgage-backed
securities.......................221,096160,85556,731ŠŠ104,000124
Collateralizeddebtobligations
........42,27463,08311,0053,6848,90439,490Š
Otherdebtsecurities
................146,741128,99812,07356,48128,96621,30010,178
Total.............................$590,279$537,040$232,513$66,524$38,070$164,790$35,143
Theamortizedcostandestimatedfairvalueofcollateralizedmortgageobligationsincludedin
mortgage-backedsecuritieswereasfollows:
December31
20132012(Inthousands)
Collateralizedmortgageobligations:
Amortizedcost
.....................................................$231,040$1,414,691
Estimatedfairvalue
.................................................171,1001,202,243
Grossrealizedgainsfromsalesofinvestmentsecuritieswere$116,490,000in2013.During2013,the
CompanysolditsholdingsofVisaClassBsharesforagainof$89,545,000anditsholdingsofMasterCard

ClassBsharesforagainof$13,208,000.Grossrealizedlossesoninvestmentsecuritieswere$60,033,000in
1112013.TheCompanysoldsubstantiallyallofitsprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesheldinthe
available-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesportfolioduring2013.Intotal,$1.0billionofsuchsecuritieswere

soldforanetlossofapproximately$46,302,000.In2011,grossrealizedgainsfromsalesofinvestment

securitieswere$150,223,000andgrossrealizedlosseswere$36,000.During2011,theCompanysold

residentialmortgage-backedsecuritiesguaranteedbytheFederalNationalMortgageAssociation(ﬁFannie

Maeﬂ)andtheFederalHomeLoanMortgageCorporation(ﬁFreddieMacﬂ)havinganaggregateamortized

costofapproximately$1.5billionwhichresultedinagainof$104million.TheCompanyalsosoldtrust

preferredsecuritiesandcollateralizeddebtsecuritiesduring2011havinganaggregateamortizedcostof$136

millionand$100million,respectively,whichresultedingainsof$25millionand$20million,respectively.

Grossrealizedgainsandlossesfromsalesofinvestmentsecuritieswerenotsignificantin2012.
TheCompanyrecognized$10million,$48millionand$77millionofpre-taxother-than-temporary
impairmentlossesrelatedtoprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesin2013,2012and2011,

respectively.Theimpairmentchargeswererecognizedinlightofdeteriorationofrealestatevaluesandarise

indelinquenciesandcharge-offsofunderlyingmortgageloanscollateralizingthosesecurities.Theother-

than-temporaryimpairmentlossesrepresentedmanagement™sestimateofcreditlossesinherentinthedebt

securitiesconsideringprojectedcashflowsusingassumptionsofdelinquencyrates,lossseverities,andother

estimatesoffuturecollateralperformance.
Changesincreditlossesduring2013,2012and2011associatedwithdebtsecuritiesforwhichother-
than-temporaryimpairmentlosseshavebeenrecognizedinearningsfollows:
YearEndedDecember31
201320122011(Inthousands)
EstimatedcreditlossesŠbeginningbalance
....................$
197,809$285,399$327,912
Additionsforcreditlossesnotpreviouslyrecognized
.............9,80047,82277,035
Reductionsforincreasesincashflows
.........................ŠŠ
(5,111)Reductionsforrealizedlosses
................................(207,441)(135,412)(114,437)
EstimatedcreditlossesŠendingbalance
.......................$168$
197,809$285,399
AtDecember31,2013,theamortizedcostandestimatedfairvalueofdebtsecuritiesbycontractual
maturitywereasfollows:
AmortizedCostEstimatedFairValue
(Inthousands)
Debtsecuritiesavailableforsale:
Dueinoneyearorless
.................................................$
29,839$30,036
Dueafteroneyearthroughfiveyears
.....................................16,00516,617
Dueafterfiveyearsthroughtenyears
....................................7,7188,015
Dueaftertenyears
....................................................174,420177,087
227,982231,755
Mortgage-backedsecuritiesavailableforsale
...............................4,124,9034,166,936
$4,352,885$4,398,691
Debtsecuritiesheldtomaturity:
Dueinoneyearorless
.................................................$
19,485$19,606
Dueafteroneyearthroughfiveyears
.....................................68,71370,618
Dueafterfiveyearsthroughtenyears
....................................81,48683,069
Dueaftertenyears
....................................................8,9138,913
178,597182,206
Mortgage-backedsecuritiesheldtomaturity
...............................3,787,5333,677,921
$3,966,130$3,860,127
112AsummaryofinvestmentsecuritiesthatasofDecember31,2013and2012hadbeeninacontinuous
unrealizedlosspositionforlessthantwelvemonthsandthosethathadbeeninacontinuousunrealizedloss

positionfortwelvemonthsorlongerfollows:
LessThan12Months
12MonthsorMore
FairValue
UnrealizedLossesFairValue
UnrealizedLosses(Inthousands)
December31,2013
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:

U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
....................$745$(2)$Š$Š
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
..........ŠŠ558(6)
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
..................1,697,094(19,225)5,815(125)
Privatelyissued
.................................ŠŠ98(5)
Collateralizeddebtobligations
.......................ŠŠ
6,257(857)
Otherdebtsecurities
...............................1,428(4)
103,602(19,461)
Equitysecurities
..................................159
(227)ŠŠ
1,699,426(19,458)116,330(20,454)
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity:
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
..........13,517(120)1,558(15)
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
..................2,629,950(65,149)ŠŠ
Privatelyissued
.................................ŠŠ
159,005(60,623)
2,643,467(65,269)160,563(60,638)
Total............................................$4,342,893$(84,727)$276,893$(81,092)
December31,2012
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:

Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
..........$166$(1)$683$(7)
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
..................12,107(65)8,804(164)
Privatelyissued
.................................121,487(692)774,328(124,981)
Collateralizeddebtobligations
.......................ŠŠ
6,043(1,022)
Otherdebtsecurities
...............................ŠŠ
95,685(26,900)
Equitysecurities
..................................5,535(1,295)2,956(2,125)
139,295(2,053)888,499(155,199)
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity:
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
..........1,026(5)3,558(22)
Privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities
............ŠŠ
147,273(94,900)
1,026(5)150,831(94,922)
Total............................................$
140,321$(2,058)$1,039,330$(250,121)
TheCompanyowned468individualinvestmentsecuritieswithaggregategrossunrealizedlossesof
$166millionatDecember31,2013.Approximately$61millionoftheunrealizedlossespertaintoprivately

issuedmortgage-backedsecuritieswithacostbasisof$220million.TheCompanyalsohad$19millionof

unrealizedlossesonavailable-for-saletrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutionshavingacost

basisof$123million.Basedonareviewofeachofthesecuritiesintheinvestmentsecuritiesportfolioat
113December31,2013,theCompanyconcludedthatitexpectedtorecovertheamortizedcostbasisofits
investment.AsofDecember31,2013,theCompanydoesnotintendtosellnorisitanticipatedthatitwould

berequiredtosellanyofitsimpairedinvestmentsecuritiesataloss.AtDecember31,2013,theCompany

hasnotidentifiedeventsorchangesincircumstanceswhichmayhaveasignificantadverseeffectonthefair

valueofthe$299millionofcostmethodinvestmentsecurities.
AtDecember31,2013,investmentsecuritieswithacarryingvalueof$3,902,317,000,including
$2,459,296,000ofinvestmentsecuritiesavailableforsale,werepledgedtosecureborrowingsfromvarious

FHLBs,repurchaseagreements,governmentaldeposits,interestrateswapagreementsandavailablelinesof

creditasdescribedinnote9.
InvestmentsecuritiespledgedbytheCompanytosecureobligationswherebythesecuredpartyis
permittedbycontractorcustomtosellorrepledgesuchcollateraltotaled$1,696,438,000atDecember31,

2013.ThepledgedsecuritiesincludedsecuritiesoftheU.S.Treasuryandfederalagenciesandmortgage-

backedsecurities.
4.Loansandleases
Totalloansandleasesoutstandingwerecomprisedofthefollowing:
December31
20132012(Inthousands)
LoansCommercial,financial,etc.
...........................................$17,477,238$16,500,202
Realestate:
Residential......................................................8,911,55411,161,323
Commercial.....................................................21,799,88622,333,036
Construction....................................................4,457,6503,772,413
Consumer.........................................................10,280,52711,550,274
Totalloans
......................................................62,926,85565,317,248
LeasesCommercial.....................................................1,398,9281,472,938
Totalloansandleases
...............................................64,325,78366,790,186
Less:unearneddiscount
.............................................(252,624)(219,229)
Totalloansandleases,netofunearneddiscount
..........................$64,073,159$66,570,957
One-to-fourfamilyresidentialmortgageloansheldforsalewere$401millionatDecember31,2013
and$1.2billionatDecember31,2012.Commercialrealestateloansheldforsalewere$68millionat

December31,2013and$200millionatDecember31,2012.
Duringthesecondandthirdquartersof2013,theCompanysecuritizedapproximately$1.3billionof
one-to-fourfamilyresidentialrealestateloanspreviouslyheldintheCompany™sloanportfoliointo

guaranteedmortgage-backedsecuritieswiththeGovernmentNationalMortgageAssociation(ﬁGinnie

Maeﬂ)andrecognizedgainsof$42,382,000.Inaddition,theCompanysecuritizedandsoldinSeptember

2013approximately$1.4billionofautomobileloansheldinitsloanportfolio,resultinginagainof

$20,683,000.AsofDecember31,2013,approximately$2.3billionofcommercialrealestateloanbalancesserviced
forothershadbeensoldwithrecourseinconjunctionwiththeCompany™sparticipationintheFannieMae

DelegatedUnderwritingandServicing(ﬁDUSﬂ)program.AtDecember31,2013,theCompanyestimated

thattherecourseobligationsdescribedabovewerenotmaterialtotheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancial

position.Therehavebeennomateriallossesincurredasaresultofthosecreditrecoursearrangements.
Inadditiontorecourseobligations,asdescribedinnote21,theCompanyiscontractuallyobligated
torepurchasepreviouslysoldresidentialrealestateloansthatdonotultimatelymeetinvestorsalecriteria

relatedtounderwritingproceduresorloandocumentation.Whenrequiredtodoso,theCompanymay

reimburseloanpurchasersforlossesincurredormayrepurchasecertainloans.Chargesincurredforsuch

obligation,whicharerecordedasareductionofmortgagebankingrevenues,were$17million,$28million

and$23millionin2013,2012and2011,respectively.
114Theoutstandingprincipalbalanceandthecarryingamountofacquiredloansthatwererecordedat
fairvalueattheacquisitiondatethatisincludedintheconsolidatedbalancesheetwereasfollows:
December31
20132012(Inthousands)
Outstandingprincipalbalance
.........................................$4,656,811$6,705,120
Carryingamount:
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
...................................580,685928,107
Commercialrealestate
.............................................1,541,3682,567,050
Residentialrealestate
..............................................576,473707,309
Consumer.......................................................1,308,9261,637,887
$4,007,452$5,840,353
Purchasedimpairedloansincludedinthetableabovetotaled$331millionatDecember31,2013and
$447millionatDecember31,2012,representinglessthan1%oftheCompany™sassetsasofeachdate.A

summaryofchangesintheaccretableyieldforacquiredloansfortheyearsendedDecember31,2013,2012

and2011follows:
ForYearEndedDecember31,
201320122011PurchasedOtherPurchasedOtherPurchasedOther
ImpairedAcquiredImpairedAcquiredImpairedAcquired(Inthousands)
Balanceatbeginningofperiod..$42,252$638,272$30,805$807,960$9,245$447,505
Additions...................ŠŠŠŠ
39,358648,631
Interestincome
..............(36,727)(247,295)(40,551)(295,654)(26,221)(268,315)
Reclassificationsfrom
nonaccretablebalance,net...31,705149,59551,998148,4908,6291,800
Other(a)...................Š
(1,939)Š(22,524)(206)(21,661)
Balanceatendofperiod
.......$
37,230$538,633$42,252$638,272$30,805$807,960
(a)Otherchangesinexpectedcashflowsincludingchangesininterestratesandprepaymentassumptions.
115Asummaryofcurrent,pastdueandnonaccrualloansasofDecember31,2013and2012follows:
90DaysorMorePast
DueandAccruing
Current30-89Days
PastDue
Non-acquiredAcquired(a)PurchasedImpaired(b)NonaccrualTotal(Inthousands)
December31,2013
Commercial,financial,
leasing,etc.
...........$18,489,474$77,538$4,981$6,778$15,706$110,739$18,705,216
Realestate:
Commercial..........21,236,071145,74963,35335,60388,034173,04821,741,858
Residentialbuilderand
developer..........1,025,9848,4861417,930137,54496,4271,276,512
Othercommercial
construction........2,986,59842,234Š8,03157,70735,2683,129,838
Residential...........7,630,368295,131294,64943,70029,184252,8058,545,837
ResidentialAlt-A
......283,25318,009ŠŠŠ81,122382,384
Consumer:Homeequitylinesand
loans..............5,972,36540,537Š27,7542,61778,5166,121,789
Automobile..........1,314,24629,144Š366Š21,1441,364,900
Other...............2,726,52247,8305,386ŠŠ25,0872,804,825
Total..................$61,664,881$704,658$368,510$130,162$330,792$874,156$64,073,159
December31,2012
Commercial,financial,
leasing,etc.
...........$17,511,052$62,479$23,490$10,587$17,437$151,908$17,776,953
Realestate:
Commercial..........21,759,997118,24913,11154,995132,962193,85922,273,173
Residentialbuilderand
developer..........757,31135,4193,25823,909187,764181,8651,189,526
Othercommercial
construction........2,379,95335,2745099,57268,97136,8122,531,091
Residential...........9,811,956337,969313,18445,12436,769249,31410,794,316
ResidentialAlt-A
......331,02119,692ŠŠŠ95,808446,521
Consumer:Homeequitylinesand
loans..............6,199,59140,759Š20,3183,21158,0716,321,950
Automobile..........2,442,50240,461Š251Š25,1072,508,321
Other...............2,661,43240,5994,8451,798Š20,4322,729,106
Total..................$63,854,815$730,901$358,397$166,554$447,114$1,013,176$66,570,957
(a)Acquiredloansthatwererecordedatfairvalueatacquisitiondate.Thiscategorydoesnotincludepurchased
impairedloansthatarepresentedseparately.
(b)Accruingloansthatwereimpairedatacquisitiondateandwererecordedatfairvalue.
Ifnonaccrualandrenegotiatedloanshadbeenaccruinginterestattheiroriginallycontractedterms,
interestincomeonsuchloanswouldhaveamountedto$62,010,000in2013,$69,054,000in2012and

$80,278,000in2011.Theactualamountsincludedininterestincomeduring2013,2012and2011onsuch

loanswere$31,987,000,$30,484,000and$31,301,000,respectively.
116Duringthenormalcourseofbusiness,theCompanymodifiesloanstomaximizerecoveryefforts.If
theborrowerisexperiencingfinancialdifficultyandaconcessionisgranted,theCompanyconsiderssuch

modificationsastroubleddebtrestructuringsandclassifiesthoseloansaseithernonaccrualloansor

renegotiatedloans.ThetypesofconcessionsthattheCompanygrantstypicallyincludeprincipaldeferrals

andinterestrateconcessions,butmayalsoincludeothertypesofconcessions.
ThetablebelowsummarizestheCompany™sloanmodificationactivitiesthatwereconsidered
troubleddebtrestructuringsfortheyearendedDecember31,2013:
RecordedInvestment
FinancialEffectsof
ModificationNumberPre-modifica-tionPost-modifica-tionRecordedInvestment(a)Interest(b)(Dollarsinthousands)
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
Principaldeferral
.................................79$
16,389$16,002$(387)$Š
Interestratereduction
.............................1104335231
(54)Other..........................................4
50,43350,924491Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................11
6,2295,578(651)(458)
Realestate:
CommercialPrincipaldeferral
.................................27
40,63940,464(175)Š
Other..........................................244947526Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................9
2,6493,040391(250)
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
Principaldeferral
.................................18
21,42320,577(846)Š
Other..........................................1
4,0393,888(151)Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................3
15,58015,514(66)(535)
Othercommercialconstruction
Principaldeferral
.................................3590521
(69)Š
ResidentialPrincipaldeferral
.................................32
3,5563,821265Š
Other..........................................1195195ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................61
73,94070,854(3,086)(924)
ResidentialAlt-A
Principaldeferral
.................................10
1,9001,880(20)Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................19
2,8263,148322(790)
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans
Principaldeferral
.................................108598612Š
Interestratereduction
.............................19999Š(8)
Other..........................................1106106ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................28
2,1902,190Š(270)
AutomobilePrincipaldeferral
.................................460
6,1486,148ŠŠ
Interestratereduction
.............................15235235Š
(22)Other..........................................78339339ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................225
2,5522,552Š(191)
OtherPrincipaldeferral
.................................36332332ŠŠ
Interestratereduction
.............................11212Š(2)
Other..........................................21414ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................120
4,2484,248Š(1,187)
Total...............................................1,258$258,075$254,352$(3,723)$(4,691)
(a)Financialeffectsimpactingtherecordedinvestmentincludedprincipalpaymentsoradvances,charge-offsand
capitalizedescrowarrearages.
(b)Representsthepresentvalueofinterestrateconcessionsdiscountedattheeffectiverateoftheoriginalloan.
117ThetablebelowsummarizestheCompany™sloanmodificationactivitiesthatwereconsidered
troubleddebtrestructuringsfortheyearendedDecember31,2012:
RecordedInvestment
FinancialEffectsof
ModificationNumberPre-modifica-tionPost-modifica-tionRecordedInvestment(a)Interest(b)(Dollarsinthousands)
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
Principaldeferral
.................................61$
23,888$22,456$(1,432)$Š
Other..........................................3
2,9673,05285Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................5628740112
(102)Realestate:
CommercialPrincipaldeferral
.................................24
22,85523,059204Š
Interestratereduction
.............................266570843
(129)Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................7
1,6371,65619(351)
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
Principaldeferral
.................................23
36,86834,740(2,128)Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................7
37,60236,148(1,454)Š
Othercommercialconstruction
Principaldeferral
.................................6
81,06279,312(1,750)Š
ResidentialPrincipaldeferral
.................................36
4,6434,808165Š
Interestratereduction
.............................1109109Š
(20)Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................62
12,88613,146260(657)
ResidentialAlt-A
Principaldeferral
.................................796898921Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................38
8,5258,717192(159)
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans
Principaldeferral
.................................15
1,2851,285ŠŠ
Interestratereduction
.............................1144144Š(6)
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................29
2,3322,332Š(368)
AutomobilePrincipaldeferral
.................................618
8,3478,347ŠŠ
Interestratereduction
.............................22328328Š
(24)Other..........................................67300300ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................375
5,8575,857Š(684)
OtherPrincipaldeferral
.................................80
1,2011,201ŠŠ
Interestratereduction
.............................22515515Š
(85)Other..........................................135454ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................84
1,0151,015Š(268)
Total...............................................1,608$256,681$251,018$(5,663)$(2,853)
(a)Financialeffectsimpactingtherecordedinvestmentincludedprincipalpaymentsoradvances,charge-offsand
capitalizedescrowarrearages.
(b)Representsthepresentvalueofinterestrateconcessionsdiscountedattheeffectiverateoftheoriginalloan.
118ThetablebelowsummarizestheCompany™sloanmodificationactivitiesthatwereconsidered
troubleddebtrestructuringsfortheyearendedDecember31,2011:
RecordedInvestment
FinancialEffectsof
ModificationNumberPre-modifica-tionPost-modifica-tionRecordedInvestment(a)Interest(b)(Dollarsinthousands)
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
Principaldeferral
.................................53$
10,703$10,778$75$Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................3
2,0492,046(3)(654)
Realestate:
CommercialPrincipaldeferral
.................................29
16,80416,704(100)Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................3
15,77815,777(1)(1,463)
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
Principaldeferral
.................................9
33,20826,811(6,397)Š
Other..........................................6
118,114110,156(7,958)Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................5
2,5402,56121Š
Othercommercialconstruction
Principaldeferral
.................................3
8,4368,553117Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................3
65,81360,973(4,840)Š
ResidentialPrincipaldeferral
.................................37
8,1758,23560Š
Interestratereduction
.............................14
1,9261,99165(318)
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................111
19,50819,934426(1,559)
ResidentialAlt-A
Principaldeferral
.................................380083535Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................34
6,8136,978165(889)
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans
Principaldeferral
.................................3259259ŠŠ
Other..........................................38686ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................26
2,1562,1582(444)
AutomobilePrincipaldeferral
.................................746
10,05310,053ŠŠ
Interestratereduction
.............................17183183Š
(13)Other..........................................111739739ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................431
6,7036,703Š(808)
OtherPrincipaldeferral
.................................23400400ŠŠ
Interestratereduction
.............................188Š(1)
Other..........................................4103103ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................102803803Š
(189)Total...............................................1,780$332,160$313,827$(18,333)$(6,338)
(a)Financialeffectsimpactingtherecordedinvestmentincludedprincipalpaymentsoradvances,charge-offs
andcapitalizedescrowarrearages.
(b)Representsthepresentvalueofinterestrateconcessionsdiscountedattheeffectiverateoftheoriginalloan.
Troubleddebtrestructuringsareconsideredtobeimpairedloansandforpurposesofestablishingthe
allowanceforcreditlossesareevaluatedforimpairmentgivingconsiderationtotheimpactofthemodified

loantermsonthepresentvalueoftheloan™sexpectedcashflows.Impairmentoftroubleddebt

restructuringsthathavesubsequentlydefaultedmayalsobemeasuredbasedontheloan™sobservablemarket

priceorthefairvalueofcollateraliftheloaniscollateral-dependent.Charge-offsmayalsoberecognizedon
119troubleddebtrestructuringsthathavesubsequentlydefaulted.Loansthatweremodifiedastroubleddebt
restructuringsduringthetwelvemonthsendedDecember31,2013,2012and2011andforwhichtherewas

asubsequentpaymentdefaultduringtherespectiveperiodwerenotmaterial.
BorrowingsbydirectorsandcertainofficersofM&Tanditsbankingsubsidiaries,andbyassociates
ofsuchpersons,exclusiveofloansaggregatinglessthan$120,000,amountedto$135,512,000and

$99,532,000atDecember31,2013and2012,respectively.During2013,newborrowingsbysuchpersons

amountedto$44,799,000(includinganyborrowingsofnewdirectorsorofficersthatwereoutstandingat

thetimeoftheirelection)andrepaymentsandotherreductions(includingreductionsresultingfrom

retirements)were$8,819,000.
AtDecember31,2013,approximately$8.9billionofcommercialloansandleases,$9.6billionof
commercialrealestateloans,$5.3billionofone-to-fourfamilyresidentialrealestateloans,$4.1billionof

homeequityloansandlinesofcreditand$2.1billionofotherconsumerloanswerepledgedtosecure

outstandingborrowingsfromtheFHLBofNewYorkandavailablelinesofcreditasdescribedinnote9.
TheCompany™sloanandleaseportfolioincludescommercialleasefinancingreceivablesconsistingof
directfinancingandleveragedleasesformachineryandequipment,railroadequipment,commercialtrucks

andtrailers,andaircraft.Asummaryofleasefinancingreceivablesfollows:
December31
20132012(Inthousands)
Commercialleases:
Directfinancings:
Leasepaymentsreceivable
.........................................$1,052,214$1,106,434
Estimatedresidualvalueofleasedassets
.............................85,59596,468
Unearnedincome
...............................................(114,101)(134,428)
Investmentindirectfinancings
..................................1,023,7081,068,474
Leveragedleases:
Leasepaymentsreceivable
.........................................127,821132,466
Estimatedresidualvalueofleasedassets
.............................133,298137,570
Unearnedincome
...............................................(47,188)(50,378)
Investmentinleveragedleases
...................................213,931219,658
Totalinvestmentinleases.
............................................$1,237,639$1,288,132
Deferredtaxespayablearisingfromleveragedleases
........................$
172,296$172,026
IncludedwithintheestimatedresidualvalueofleasedassetsatDecember31,2013and2012were$54
millionand$61million,respectively,inresidualvalueassociatedwithdirectfinancingleasesthatare

guaranteedbythelesseesorothers.
AtDecember31,2013,theminimumfutureleasepaymentstobereceivedfromleasefinancingswere
asfollows:
(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2014.......................................................................$
268,4342015.......................................................................247,6202016.......................................................................193,9202017.......................................................................122,7812018.......................................................................85,341Lateryears
...................................................................261,939$1,180,0351205.Allowanceforcreditlosses
ChangesintheallowanceforcreditlossesfortheyearsendedDecember31,2013,2012and2011wereas
follows:Commercial,Financial,Leasing,etc.
RealEstate
2013CommercialResidentialConsumerUnallocatedTotal(Inthousands)
Beginningbalance
..........$
246,759$337,101$88,807$179,418$73,775$925,860
Provisionforcreditlosses
....124,1802753,14956,1561,240185,000
Allowancerelatedtoloans
soldorsecuritized
........ŠŠŠ
(11,000)Š(11,000)
Netcharge-offs
Charge-offs.............(109,329)(34,595)(23,621)(85,965)Š(253,510)
Recoveries..............11,77322,19710,32126,035Š70,326
Netcharge-offs
............(97,556)(12,398)(13,300)(59,930)Š(183,184)
Endingbalance
............$
273,383$324,978$78,656$164,644$75,015$916,676
2012Beginningbalance
..........$
234,022$367,637$91,915$143,121$71,595$908,290
Provisionforcreditlosses
....42,5105,21134,864119,2352,180204,000
Netcharge-offs
Charge-offs.............(41,148)(41,945)(44,314)(103,348)Š(230,755)
Recoveries..............11,3756,1986,34220,410Š44,325
Netcharge-offs
............(29,773)(35,747)(37,972)(82,938)Š(186,430)
Endingbalance
............$
246,759$337,101$88,807$179,418$73,775$925,860
2011Beginningbalance
..........$
212,579$400,562$86,351$133,067$70,382$902,941
Provisionforcreditlosses
....66,24044,40457,081101,0621,213270,000
Netcharge-offs
Charge-offs.............(55,021)(86,869)(58,351)(109,246)Š(309,487)
Recoveries..............10,2249,5406,83418,238Š44,836
Netcharge-offs
............(44,797)(77,329)(51,517)(91,008)Š(264,651)
Endingbalance
............$
234,022$367,637$91,915$143,121$71,595$908,290
Despitetheaboveallocation,theallowanceforcreditlossesisgeneralinnatureandisavailableto
absorblossesfromanyloanorleasetype.
Inestablishingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanyestimateslossesattributabletospecific
troubledcreditsidentifiedthroughbothnormalanddetailedorintensifiedcreditreviewprocessesandalso

estimateslossesinherentinotherloansandleasesonacollectivebasis.Forpurposesofdeterminingthelevel

oftheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanyevaluatesitsloanandleaseportfoliobyloantype.The

amountsoflosscomponentsintheCompany™sloanandleaseportfoliosaredeterminedthroughaloanby

loananalysisoflargerbalancecommercialandcommercialrealestateloansthatareinnonaccrualstatus

andbyapplyinglossfactorstogroupsofloanbalancesbasedonloantypeandmanagement™sclassification

ofsuchloansundertheCompany™sloangradingsystem.Measurementofthespecificlosscomponentsis

typicallybasedonexpectedfuturecashflows,collateralvaluesandotherfactorsthatmayimpactthe

borrower™sabilitytopay.Indeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanyutilizesaloangrading

systemwhichisappliedtocommercialandcommercialrealestatecreditsonanindividualloanbasis.Loan

officersareresponsibleforcontinuallyassigninggradestotheseloansbasedonstandardsoutlinedinthe

Company™sCreditPolicy.InternalloangradesarealsomonitoredbytheCompany™sloanreview

departmenttoensureconsistencyandstrictadherencetotheprescribedstandards.Loangradesareassigned
121losscomponentfactorsthatreflecttheCompany™slossestimateforeachgroupofloansandleases.Factors
consideredinassigningloangradesandlosscomponentfactorsincludeborrower-specificinformation

relatedtoexpectedfuturecashflowsandoperatingresults,collateralvalues,geographiclocation,financial

conditionandperformance,paymentstatus,andotherinformation;levelsofandtrendsinportfoliocharge-

offsandrecoveries;levelsofandtrendsinportfoliodelinquenciesandimpairedloans;changesintherisk

profileofspecificportfolios;trendsinvolumeandtermsofloans;effectsofchangesincreditconcentrations;

andobservedtrendsandpracticesinthebankingindustry.Asupdatedappraisalsareobtainedonindividual

loansorothereventsinthemarketplaceindicatethatcollateralvalueshavesignificantlychanged,individual

loangradesareadjustedasappropriate.Changesinotherfactorscitedmayalsoleadtoloangradechangesat

anytime.Exceptforconsumerandresidentialrealestateloansthatareconsideredsmallerbalance

homogenousloansandacquiredloansthatareevaluatedonanaggregatedbasis,theCompanyconsidersa

loantobeimpairedforpurposesofapplyingGAAPwhen,basedoncurrentinformationandevents,itis

probablethattheCompanywillbeunabletocollectallamountsaccordingtothecontractualtermsofthe

loanagreementortheloanisdelinquent90days.Regardlessofloantype,theCompanyconsidersaloanto

beimpairedifitqualifiesasatroubleddebtrestructuring.Modifiedloans,includingsmallerbalance

homogenousloans,thatareconsideredtobetroubleddebtrestructuringsareevaluatedforimpairment

givingconsiderationtotheimpactofthemodifiedloantermsonthepresentvalueoftheloan™sexpected

cashflows.
122Thefollowingtablesprovideinformationwithrespecttoloansandleasesthatwereconsidered
impairedasofDecember31,2013and2012andfortheyearsendedDecember31,2013,2012and2011.
December31,2013
December31,2012
RecordedInvestmentUnpaidPrincipalBalanceRelatedAllowanceRecordedInvestmentUnpaidPrincipalBalanceRelatedAllowance(Inthousands)
Withanallowancerecorded:
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
..............$
90,293$112,092$24,614$127,282$149,534$33,829
Realestate:
Commercial..............................113,570132,32519,520121,542143,84623,641
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
.............33,31155,1224,379115,306216,21825,661
Othercommercialconstruction
..............86,26090,5154,02273,54476,8696,836
Residential...............................96,508114,5217,146103,451121,8193,521
ResidentialAlt-A
..........................111,911124,52814,000128,891141,94017,000
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans
.................13,67214,7963,31212,36013,5672,254
Automobile...............................40,44140,44111,07449,21049,21014,273
Other....................................17,66017,6604,54114,40814,4085,667
603,626702,00092,608745,994927,411132,682
Withnorelatedallowancerecorded:
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
..............28,09333,095Š32,63142,199Š
Realestate:
Commercial..............................65,27184,333Š78,380100,337Š
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
.............72,366104,768Š74,307105,438Š
Othercommercialconstruction
..............7,36911,493Š23,01823,532Š
Residential...............................84,14495,358Š86,34296,448Š
ResidentialAlt-A
..........................28,35752,211Š31,35458,768Š
285,600381,258Š326,032426,722Š
Total:Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
..............118,386145,18724,614159,913191,73333,829
Realestate:
Commercial..............................178,841216,65819,520199,922244,18323,641
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
.............105,677159,8904,379189,613321,65625,661
Othercommercialconstruction
..............93,629102,0084,02296,562100,4016,836
Residential...............................180,652209,8797,146189,793218,2673,521
ResidentialAlt-A
..........................140,268176,73914,000160,245200,70817,000
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans
.................13,67214,7963,31212,36013,5672,254
Automobile...............................40,44140,44111,07449,21049,21014,273
Other....................................17,66017,6604,54114,40814,4085,667
Total........................................$889,226$1,083,258$92,608$1,072,026$1,354,133$132,682
123YearEnded
December31,2013
YearEnded
December31,2012
AverageRecordedInvestmentInterestIncome
RecognizedAverageRecordedInvestmentInterestIncome
RecognizedTotalCashBasisTotalCashBasis(Inthousands)
Commercial,financial,leasing,
etc.........................$
155,188$7,197$7,197$151,314$2,938$2,938
Realestate:
Commercial................197,5334,8524,852185,1712,8342,834
Residentialbuilderand
developer.................147,2881,043796249,1911,5631,102
Othercommercial
construction..............96,4755,2485,24899,6725,0205,020
Residential..................183,0596,2034,111132,8885,2843,300
ResidentialAlt-A
.............149,4616,7842,341171,5467,1752,226
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans...12,81168318311,322663179

Automobile.................44,1162,91651551,6503,470724
Other......................15,71063420811,028472197
Total........................$1,001,641$35,560$25,451$1,063,782$29,419$18,520
YearEnded
December31,2011
InterestIncome
RecognizedAverageRecordedInvestmentTotalCashBasis(Inthousands)
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
...............................$
163,485$3,306$3,278
Realestate:
Commercial...............................................189,8372,0601,985
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
..............................317,2961,948860
Othercommercialconstruction
...............................105,947926684
Residential................................................99,1074,2712,286
ResidentialAlt-A
...........................................196,1617,7131,965
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans
..................................11,428681106
Automobile...............................................56,8623,8501,060
Other....................................................5,00627389
Total.......................................................$1,145,129$25,028$12,313
Inaccordancewiththepreviouslydescribedpolicies,theCompanyutilizesaloangradingsystemthat
isappliedtoallcommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloans.Loangradesareutilizedtodifferentiate

riskwithintheportfolioandconsidertheexpectationsofdefaultforeachloan.Commercialloansand

commercialrealestateloanswithalowerexpectationofdefaultareassignedoneoftenpossibleﬁpassﬂloan

gradesandaregenerallyascribedlowerlossfactorswhendeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses.Loans

withanelevatedlevelofcreditriskareclassifiedasﬁcriticizedﬂandareascribedahigherlossfactorwhen

determiningtheallowanceforcreditlosses.Criticizedloansmaybeclassifiedasﬁnonaccrualﬂifthe

Companynolongerexpectstocollectallamountsaccordingtothecontractualtermsoftheloanagreement
124ortheloanisdelinquent90daysormore.Alllargerbalancecriticizedcommercialloansandcommercial
realestateloansareindividuallyreviewedbycentralizedloanreviewpersonneleachquartertodetermine

theappropriatenessoftheassignedloangrade,includingwhethertheloanshouldbereportedasaccruingor

nonaccruing.Smallerbalancecriticizedloansareanalyzedbybusinesslineriskmanagementareastoensure

properloangradeclassification.Furthermore,criticizednonaccrualcommercialloansandcommercialreal

estateloansareconsideredimpairedand,asaresult,specificlossallowancesonsuchloansareestablished

withintheallowanceforcreditlossestotheextentappropriateineachindividualinstance.Thefollowing

tablesummarizestheloangradesappliedtothevariousclassesoftheCompany™scommercialloansand

commercialrealestateloans.
RealEstate
Commercial,Financial,Leasing,etc
CommercialResidentialBuilderand
DeveloperOtherCommercialConstruction(Inthousands)
December31,2013
Pass.....................................$17,894,592$20,972,257$1,107,144$3,040,106
Criticizedaccrual
..........................699,885596,55372,94154,464
Criticizednonaccrual
.......................110,739173,04896,42735,268
Total....................................$18,705,216$21,741,858$1,276,512$3,129,838
December31,2012
Pass.....................................$16,889,753$21,275,182$922,141$2,307,436
Criticizedaccrual
..........................735,292804,13285,520186,843
Criticizednonaccrual
.......................151,908193,859181,86536,812
Total....................................$17,776,953$22,273,173$1,189,526$2,531,091
Indeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,residentialrealestateloansandconsumerloansare
generallyevaluatedcollectivelyafterconsideringsuchfactorsaspaymentperformanceandrecentloss

experienceandtrends,whicharemainlydrivenbycurrentcollateralvaluesinthemarketplaceaswellasthe

amountofloandefaults.Lossratesonsuchloansaredeterminedbyreferencetorecentcharge-offhistory

andareevaluated(andadjustedifdeemedappropriate)throughconsiderationofotherfactorsincluding

near-termforecastedlossestimatesdevelopedbytheCompany™sCreditDepartment.Inarrivingatsuch

forecasts,theCompanyconsidersthecurrentestimatedfairvalueofitscollateralbasedongeographical

adjustmentsforhomepricedepreciation/appreciationandoverallborrowerrepaymentperformance.With

regardtocollateralvalues,therealizabilityofsuchvaluesbytheCompanycontemplatesrepaymentofthe

originalbalanceofanyfirstlienpositionpriortorecoveringamountsonasecondlienposition.However,

residentialrealestateloansandoutstandingbalancesofhomeequityloansandlinesofcreditthataremore

than150dayspastduearegenerallyevaluatedforcollectibilityonaloan-by-loanbasisgivingconsideration

toestimatedcollateralvalues.
TheCompanyalsomeasuresadditionallossesforpurchasedimpairedloanswhenitisprobablethat
theCompanywillbeunabletocollectallcashflowsexpectedatacquisitionplusadditionalcashflows

expectedtobecollectedarisingfromchangesinestimatesafteracquisition.Thedeterminationofthe

allocatedportionoftheallowanceforcreditlossesisverysubjective.Giventhatinherentsubjectivityand

potentialimprecisioninvolvedindeterminingtheallocatedportionoftheallowanceforcreditlosses,the

Companyalsoprovidesaninherentunallocatedportionoftheallowance.Theunallocatedportionofthe

allowanceisintendedtorecognizeprobablelossesthatarenototherwiseidentifiableandincludes

management™ssubjectivedeterminationofamountsnecessarytoprovideforthepossibleuseofimprecise

estimatesindeterminingtheallocatedportionoftheallowance.Therefore,theleveloftheunallocated

portionoftheallowanceisprimarilyreflectiveoftheinherentimprecisioninthevariouscalculationsused

indeterminingtheallocatedportionoftheallowanceforcreditlosses.Otherfactorsthatcouldalsoleadto

changesintheunallocatedportionincludetheeffectsofexpansionintonewmarketsforwhichthe

Companydoesnothavethesamedegreeoffamiliarityandexperienceregardingportfolioperformancein

changingmarketconditions,theintroductionofnewloanandleaseproducttypes,andotherrisks

associatedwiththeCompany™sloanportfoliothatmaynotbespecificallyidentifiable.
125TheallocationoftheallowanceforcreditlossessummarizedonthebasisoftheCompany™s
impairmentmethodologywasasfollows:
Commercial,Financial,Leasing,etc.
RealEstate
CommercialResidentialConsumerTotal(Inthousands)
December31,2013
Individuallyevaluatedforimpairment
.........$
24,614$27,563$21,127$18,927$92,231
Collectivelyevaluatedforimpairment
..........246,096296,78155,864144,210742,951
Purchasedimpaired
........................2,6736341,6651,5076,479
Allocated.................................$273,383$324,978$78,656$164,644841,661
Unallocated...............................75,015Total.....................................$916,676December31,2012
Individuallyevaluatedforimpairment
.........$
33,669$55,291$20,502$22,194$131,656
Collectivelyevaluatedforimpairment
..........212,930280,78966,684156,661717,064
Purchasedimpaired
........................160
1,0211,6215633,365
Allocated.................................$246,759$337,101$88,807$179,418852,085
Unallocated...............................73,775Total.....................................$925,860TherecordedinvestmentinloansandleasessummarizedonthebasisoftheCompany™simpairment
methodologywasasfollows:
Commercial,Financial,Leasing,etc.
RealEstate
CommercialResidentialConsumerTotal(Inthousands)
December31,2013
Individuallyevaluatedfor
impairment...............$
118,386$376,339$320,360$71,773$886,858
Collectivelyevaluatedfor
impairment...............18,571,12425,488,5848,578,67710,217,12462,855,509
Purchasedimpaired
..........15,706283,28529,1842,617330,792
Total......................$18,705,216$26,148,208$8,928,221$10,291,514$64,073,159
December31,2012
Individuallyevaluatedfor
impairment..............$
159,761$480,335$349,477$75,978$1,065,551
Collectivelyevaluatedfor
impairment..............17,599,75525,123,75810,854,59111,480,18865,058,292
Purchasedimpaired
.........17,437389,69736,7693,211447,114
Total.....................$17,776,953$25,993,790$11,240,837$11,559,377$66,570,957
1266.Premisesandequipment
Thedetailofpremisesandequipmentwasasfollows:
December31
20132012(Inthousands)
Land..............................................................$
84,220$84,545
BuildingsŠowned
..................................................402,065393,527
BuildingsŠcapitalleases
.............................................1,1311,131
Leaseholdimprovements
.............................................208,947198,498
FurnitureandequipmentŠowned
.....................................547,824465,113
FurnitureandequipmentŠcapitalleases
................................17,70317,915
1,261,8901,160,729
Less:accumulateddepreciationandamortization
Ownedassets
.....................................................617,228559,948
Capitalleases
.....................................................11,1426,129
628,370566,077
Premisesandequipment,net
..........................................$
633,520$594,652
Netleaseexpenseforalloperatingleasestotaled$103,297,000in2013,$102,924,000in2012and
$97,098,000in2011.Minimumleasepaymentsundernoncancelableoperatingleasesarepresentedin

note21.Minimumleasepaymentsrequiredundercapitalleasesarenotmaterial.
7.Capitalizedservicingassets
Changesincapitalizedservicingassetswereasfollows:
ResidentialMortgageLoans
CommercialMortgageLoans
ForYearEndedDecember31,
201320122011201320122011(Inthousands)
Beginningbalance
..............$104,855$131,264$92,066$59,978$51,250$42,613
Originations...................52,37514,57713,92026,75419,65317,613
Purchases.....................272109
61,642ŠŠŠ
Recognizedinloansecuritization
transactions.................13,696ŠŠŠŠŠ
Amortization..................(44,821)(41,095)(36,364)(14,233)(10,925)(8,976)
126,377104,855131,26472,49959,97851,250
Valuationallowance
............(300)(4,500)(1,800)ŠŠŠ
Endingbalance,net
.............$126,077$100,355$129,464$72,499$59,978$51,250
OtherTotalForYearEndedDecember31,
201320122011201320122011(Inthousands)
Beginningbalance
...............$
8,143$15,678$26,197$172,976$198,192$160,876
Originations...................ŠŠŠ
79,12934,23031,533
Purchases......................ŠŠŠ272109
61,642Recognizedinloansecuritization
transactions..................9,382ŠŠ23,078ŠŠ
Amortization...................(6,300)(7,535)(10,519)(65,354)(59,555)(55,859)
11,2258,14315,678210,101172,976198,192
Valuationallowance
.............ŠŠŠ
(300)(4,500)(1,800)
Endingbalance,net
..............$11,225$8,143$15,678$209,801$168,476$196,392
127Residentialmortgageloansservicedforotherswere$69.1billionatDecember31,2013,$32.1billion
atDecember31,2012and$36.3billionatDecember31,2011.Reflectedinresidentialmortgageloans

servicedforotherswereloanssub-servicedforothersof$46.6billion,$12.5billionand$14.3billionat

December31,2013,2012,and2011,respectively.Commercialmortgageloansservicedforotherswere$11.4

billion,$10.6billionand$9.0billionatDecember31,2013,2012and2011,respectively.Otherloans

servicedforothersincludesmall-balancecommercialmortgageloansandautomobileloanstotaling$4.4

billion,$3.8billionand$4.4billionatDecember31,2013,2012and2011,respectively.
Changesinthevaluationallowanceforcapitalizedresidentialmortgageservicingassetswerenot
significantin2013,2012or2011.Theestimatedfairvalueofcapitalizedresidentialmortgageloanservicing

assetswasapproximately$266millionatDecember31,2013and$138millionatDecember31,2012.The

fairvalueofcapitalizedresidentialmortgageloanservicingassetswasestimatedusingweighted-average

discountratesof9.3%and10.6%atDecember31,2013and2012,respectively,andcontemporaneous

prepaymentassumptionsthatvarybyloantype.AtDecember31,2013and2012,thediscountrate

representedaweighted-averageoption-adjustedspread(ﬁOASﬂ)of770basispoints(hundredthsofone

percent)and929basispoints,respectively,overmarketimpliedforwardLondonInterbankOfferedRates.

Theestimatedfairvalueofcapitalizedresidentialmortgageloanservicingrightsmayvarysignificantlyin

subsequentperiodsduetochanginginterestratesandtheeffectthereofonprepaymentspeeds.The

estimatedfairvalueofcapitalizedcommercialmortgageloanservicingassetswasapproximately$85million

and$71millionatDecember31,2013and2012,respectively.An18%discountratewasusedtoestimatethe

fairvalueofcapitalizedcommercialmortgageloanservicingrightsatDecember31,2013and2012withno

prepaymentassumptionsbecause,ingeneral,theservicingagreementsallowtheCompanytosharein

customerloanprepaymentfeesandtherebyrecovertheremainingcarryingvalueofthecapitalizedservicing

rightsassociatedwithsuchloan.TheCompany™sabilitytorealizethecarryingvalueofcapitalized

commercialmortgageservicingrightsismoredependentontheborrowers™abilitiestorepaytheunderlying

loansthanonprepaymentsorchangesininterestrates.
Thekeyeconomicassumptionsusedtodeterminethefairvalueofsignificantportfoliosof
capitalizedservicingrightsatDecember31,2013andthesensitivityofsuchvaluetochangesinthose

assumptionsaresummarizedinthetablethatfollows.Thosecalculatedsensitivitiesarehypotheticaland

actualchangesinthefairvalueofcapitalizedservicingrightsmaydiffersignificantlyfromtheamounts

presentedherein.Theeffectofavariationinaparticularassumptiononthefairvalueoftheservicingrights

iscalculatedwithoutchanginganyotherassumption.Inreality,changesinonefactormayresultinchanges

inanotherwhichmaymagnifyorcounteractthesensitivities.Thechangesinassumptionsarepresumedto

beinstantaneous.
ResidentialCommercialWeighted-averageprepaymentspeeds
.................................11.39%Impactonfairvalueof10%adversechange
..........................$(11,283,000)Impactonfairvalueof20%adversechange
..........................(21,664,000)Weighted-averageOAS
............................................7.70%Impactonfairvalueof10%adversechange
..........................$
(5,714,000)Impactonfairvalueof20%adversechange
..........................(11,155,000)Weighted-averagediscountrate
......................................18.00%Impactonfairvalueof10%adversechange
..........................$(3,677,000)Impactonfairvalueof20%adversechange
..........................(7,096,000)Asdescribedinnote19,during2013theCompanysecuritizedapproximately$1.3billionofone-to-
fourfamilyresidentialmortgageloansformerlyheldintheCompany™sloanportfolioinguaranteed

mortgagesecuritizationswithGinnieMaeandsecuritizedandsoldapproximately$1.4billionofautomobile

loans.Inconjunctionwiththesetransactions,theCompanyretainedtheservicingrightstotheloans.
1288.Goodwillandotherintangibleassets
InaccordancewithGAAP,theCompanydoesnotamortizegoodwill,however,coredepositandother
intangibleassetsareamortizedovertheestimatedlifeofeachrespectiveasset.Totalamortizingintangible

assetswerecomprisedofthefollowing:
GrossCarrying
AmountAccumulatedAmortizationNetCarrying
Amount(Inthousands)
December31,2013
Coredeposit
..........................................$755,794$705,518$50,276
Other...............................................177,268158,69318,575
Total................................................$933,062$864,211$68,851
December31,2012
Coredeposit
..........................................$755,794$670,940$84,854
Other...............................................177,268146,35930,909
Total................................................$933,062$817,299$115,763
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassetswasgenerallycomputedusingaccelerated
methodsoveroriginalamortizationperiodsoffivetotenyears.Theweighted-averageoriginalamortization

periodwasapproximatelyeightyears.Theremainingweighted-averageamortizationperiodasof

December31,2013wasapproximatelythreeyears.Amortizationexpenseforcoredepositandother

intangibleassetswas$46,912,000,$60,631,000and$61,617,000fortheyearsendedDecember31,2013,2012

and2011,respectively.Estimatedamortizationexpenseinfutureyearsforsuchintangibleassetsisas

follows:(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2014.......................................................................$
33,8252015.......................................................................20,9382016.......................................................................10,0522017.......................................................................3,3032018.......................................................................733
$68,851InaccordancewithGAAP,theCompanycompletedannualgoodwillimpairmenttestsasof
October1,2013,2012and2011.Forpurposesoftestingforimpairment,theCompanyassignedallrecorded

goodwilltothereportingunitsoriginallyintendedtobenefitfrompastbusinesscombinations,whichhas

historicallybeentheCompany™scorerelationshipbusinessreportingunits.Goodwillwasgenerallyassigned

basedontheimpliedfairvalueoftheacquiredgoodwillapplicabletothebenefitedreportingunitsatthe

timeofeachrespectiveacquisition.Theimpliedfairvalueofthegoodwillwasdeterminedasthedifference

betweentheestimatedincrementaloverallfairvalueofthereportingunitandtheestimatedfairvalueofthe

netassetsassignedtothereportingunitasofeachrespectiveacquisitiondate.Totestforgoodwill

impairmentateachevaluationdate,theCompanycomparedtheestimatedfairvalueofeachofitsreporting

unitstotheirrespectivecarryingamountsandcertainotherassetsandliabilitiesassignedtothereporting

unit,includinggoodwillandcoredepositandotherintangibleassets.Themethodologiesusedtoestimate

fairvaluesofreportingunitsasoftheacquisitiondatesandasoftheevaluationdatesweresimilar.Forthe

Company™scorecustomerrelationshipbusinessreportingunits,fairvaluewasestimatedasthepresentvalue

oftheexpectedfuturecashflowsofthereportingunit.Basedontheresultsofthegoodwillimpairmenttests,

theCompanyconcludedthattheamountofrecordedgoodwillwasnotimpairedattherespectivetesting

dates.129AsummaryofgoodwillassignedtoeachoftheCompany™sreportablesegmentsasofDecember31,
2013and2012forpurposesoftestingforimpairmentisasfollows.
(Inthousands)
BusinessBanking
...............................................................$
748,907CommercialBanking
............................................................907,524CommercialRealEstate
..........................................................349,197DiscretionaryPortfolio
..........................................................Š
ResidentialMortgageBanking
.....................................................Š
RetailBanking
.................................................................1,144,404AllOther
......................................................................374,593Total.........................................................................$3,524,6259.Borrowings
Theamountsandinterestratesofshort-termborrowingswereasfollows:
FederalFunds
PurchasedandRepurchaseAgreementsOtherShort-termBorrowingsTotal(Dollarsinthousands)
AtDecember31,2013
Amountoutstanding
....................................$
260,455$Š$260,455
Weighted-averageinterestrate
............................0.04%Š0.04%
FortheyearendedDecember31,2013
Highestamountatamonth-end
...........................$
563,879$Š
Daily-averageamountoutstanding
.........................390,034Š$390,034
Weighted-averageinterestrate
............................0.11%Š0.11%
AtDecember31,2012
Amountoutstanding
....................................$1,074,482$Š$1,074,482
Weighted-averageinterestrate
............................0.11%Š0.11%
FortheyearendedDecember31,2012
Highestamountatamonth-end
...........................$1,224,194$50,016
Daily-averageamountoutstanding
.........................822,85916,043$838,902
Weighted-averageinterestrate
............................0.15%0.57%0.15%
AtDecember31,2011
Amountoutstanding
....................................$
732,059$50,023$782,082
Weighted-averageinterestrate
............................0.04%0.70%0.09%
FortheyearendedDecember31,2011
Highestamountatamonth-end
...........................$1,389,237$142,927
Daily-averageamountoutstanding
.........................706,749120,059$826,808
Weighted-averageinterestrate
............................0.11%0.18%0.12%
Short-termborrowingshaveastatedmaturityofoneyearorlessatthedatetheCompanyentersinto
theobligation.Ingeneral,federalfundspurchasedandshort-termrepurchaseagreementsoutstandingat

December31,2013maturedonthenextbusinessdayfollowingyear-end.Othershort-termborrowingsat

December31,2011included$50millionofborrowingsfromFHLBs.Therewerenosimilarborrowingsat

December31,2013orDecember31,2012.
130AtDecember31,2013,theCompanyhadlinesofcreditunderformalagreementsasfollows:
M&TM&TBank
WilmingtonTrust,N.A.
(Inthousands)
Outstandingborrowings
.....................................$Š$
28,868$Š
Unused...................................................30,00019,838,117300,710
M&ThasarevolvingcreditagreementwithanunaffiliatedcommercialbankwherebyM&Tmay
borrowupto$30millionatitsdiscretionthroughNovember21,2014.AtDecember31,2013,M&TBank

hadborrowingfacilitiesavailablewiththeFHLBswherebyM&TBankcouldborrowuptoapproximately

$8.3billion.Additionally,M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,NationalAssociation(ﬁWilmingtonTrust,

N.A.ﬂ),awhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&T,hadavailablelinesofcreditwiththeFederalReserveBankof

NewYorktotalingapproximately$11.8billionatDecember31,2013.M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,

N.A.arerequiredtopledgeloansandinvestmentsecuritiesascollateralfortheseborrowingfacilities.
Long-termborrowingswereasfollows:
December31,
20132012(Inthousands)
SeniornotesofM&TBank:
Variableratedue2016
..............................................$
300,000$Š
1.45%due2018
...................................................502,479Š
AdvancesfromFHLB:
Fixedrates
.......................................................29,07930,066
Agreementstorepurchasesecurities
.....................................1,400,0001,400,000
SubordinatednotesofWilmingtonTrustCorporation
(awhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&T):

4.875%due2013
..................................................Š
251,2988.50%due2018
...................................................224,067230,255
SubordinatednotesofM&TBank:
6.625%due2017
..................................................437,582455,439
9.50%due2018
...................................................50,00050,000
5.585%due2020,variableratecommencing2015
.......................392,964385,669
5.629%due2021,variableratecommencing2016
.......................559,378583,097
JuniorsubordinateddebenturesofM&Tassociatedwithpreferredcapital
securities:Fixedrates:
M&TCapitalTrustIŠ8.234%,due2027
...........................154,640154,640
M&TCapitalTrustIIŠ8.277%,due2027
...........................103,093103,093
M&TCapitalTrustIIIŠ9.25%,due2027
...........................66,10966,434
BSBCapitalTrustIŠ8.125%,due2028
.............................15,58915,566
ProvidentTrustIŠ8.29%,due2028
...............................25,05124,746
SouthernFinancialStatutoryTrustIŠ10.60%,due2030
...............6,5216,496
M&TCapitalTrustIVŠ8.50%,due2068
...........................350,010350,010
Variablerates:
FirstMarylandCapitalIŠdue2027
................................144,641144,102
FirstMarylandCapitalIIŠdue2027
...............................145,964145,301
AllfirstAssetTrustŠdue2029
....................................96,05995,913
BSBCapitalTrustIIIŠdue2033
..................................15,46415,464
ProvidentTrustIIIŠdue2033
....................................52,17651,694
SouthernFinancialCapitalTrustIIIŠdue2033
......................7,7477,683
Other.............................................................30,25740,792
$5,108,870$4,607,758
131Duringthefirstquarterof2013,M&TBankinstitutedaBankNoteProgramwherebyM&TBank
mayofferupto$5billioninunsecuredseniorandsubordinatednotes.DuringMarch2013,three-year

floatingrateseniornotesdueMarch2016wereissuedfor$300millionandfive-year1.45%fixedratesenior

notesdueMarch2018wereissuedfor$500million.Thefloatingratenotespayinterestquarterlyatrates

thatareindexedtothethree-monthLIBOR.TherateatDecember31,2013was.54%.
Long-termfixedrateadvancesfromtheFHLBhadcontractualinterestratesrangingfrom3.48%to
7.32%atDecember31,2013and2012.Theweighted-averagecontractualinterestratespayablewere4.60%

atDecember31,2013and4.64%atDecember31,2012.AdvancesfromtheFHLBmatureatvariousdates

through2035andaresecuredbyresidentialrealestateloans,commercialrealestateloansandinvestment

securities.Long-termagreementstorepurchasesecuritieshadcontractualinterestratesthatrangedfrom3.61%
to4.30%ateachofDecember31,2013and2012.Theweighted-averagecontractualinterestrateswere

3.90%ateachofthosedates.TheagreementsoutstandingatDecember31,2013reflectvariousrepurchase

datesthrough2017,however,thecontractualmaturitiesoftheunderlyinginvestmentsecuritiesextend

beyondsuchrepurchasedates.Theagreementsaresubjecttolegallyenforceablemasternetting

arrangements,however,theCompanyhasnotoffsetanyamountsrelatedtotheseagreementsinits

consolidatedfinancialstatements.TheCompanypostedcollateralof$1.6billionateachofDecember31,

2013and2012.
ThesubordinatednotesofM&TBankandWilmingtonTrustCorporationareunsecuredandare
subordinatetotheclaimsofothercreditorsofthoseentities.
ThefixedandfloatingratejuniorsubordinateddeferrableinterestdebenturesofM&T(ﬁJunior
SubordinatedDebenturesﬂ)areheldbyvarioustrustsandwereissuedinconnectionwiththeissuanceby

thosetrustsofpreferredcapitalsecurities(ﬁCapitalSecuritiesﬂ)andcommonsecurities(ﬁCommon

Securitiesﬂ).TheproceedsfromtheissuancesoftheCapitalSecuritiesandtheCommonSecuritieswereused

bythetruststopurchasetheJuniorSubordinatedDebentures.TheCommonSecuritiesofeachofthose

trustsarewhollyownedbyM&Tandaretheonlyclassofeachtrust™ssecuritiespossessinggeneralvoting

powers.TheCapitalSecuritiesrepresentpreferredundividedinterestsintheassetsofthecorresponding

trust.UndertheFederalReserveBoard™scurrentrisk-basedcapitalguidelines,theCapitalSecuritiesare

includableinM&T™sTier1capital.However,inJuly2013,theFederalReserveBoard,theOfficeofthe

ComptrolleroftheCurrencyandtheFederalDepositInsuranceCorporationissuedafinalruleto

comprehensivelyrevisethecapitalframeworkfortheU.S.bankingsector.Underthatrule,trustpreferred

capitalsecuritieswillbephasedoutfrominclusioninTier1capitalsuchthatin2015only25%ofthen-

outstandingsecuritieswillbeincludedinTier1capitalandbeginningin2016noneofthesecuritieswillbe

includedinTier1capital.ThevariablerateJuniorSubordinatedDebenturespayinterestquarterlyatrates

thatareindexedtothethree-monthLIBOR.Thoseratesrangedfrom1.09%to3.59%atDecember31,2013

andfrom1.16%to3.69%atDecember31,2012.Theweighted-averagevariableratespayableonthose

JuniorSubordinatedDebentureswere1.67%atDecember31,2013and1.75%atDecember31,2012.
HoldersoftheCapitalSecuritiesreceivepreferentialcumulativecashdistributionsunlessM&T
exercisesitsrighttoextendthepaymentofinterestontheJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesasallowedbythe

termsofeachsuchdebenture,inwhichcasepaymentofdistributionsontherespectiveCapitalSecurities

willbedeferredforcomparableperiods.Duringanextendedinterestperiod,M&Tmaynotpaydividendsor

distributionson,orrepurchase,redeemoracquireanysharesofitscapitalstock.Intheeventofanextended

interestperiodexceedingtwentyquarterlyperiodsfor$350millionofJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesdue

January31,2068,M&Tmustfundthepaymentofaccruedandunpaidinterestthroughanalternative

paymentmechanism,whichrequiresM&Ttoissuecommonstock,non-cumulativeperpetualpreferred

stockorwarrantstopurchasecommonstockuntilM&Thasraisedanamountofeligibleproceedsatleast

equaltotheaggregateamountofaccruedandunpaiddeferredinterestontheJuniorSubordinated

DebenturesdueJanuary31,2068.Ingeneral,theagreementsgoverningtheCapitalSecurities,inthe

aggregate,provideafull,irrevocableandunconditionalguaranteebyM&Tofthepaymentofdistributions

on,theredemptionof,andanyliquidationdistributionwithrespecttotheCapitalSecurities.The

obligationsundersuchguaranteeandtheCapitalSecuritiesaresubordinateandjuniorinrightofpayment

toallseniorindebtednessofM&T.
TheCapitalSecuritieswillremainoutstandinguntiltheJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesarerepaid
atmaturity,areredeemedpriortomaturityoraredistributedinliquidationtotheTrusts.TheCapital

Securitiesaremandatorilyredeemableinwhole,butnotinpart,uponrepaymentatthestatedmaturity

dates(rangingfrom2027to2068)oftheJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesortheearlierredemptionofthe
132JuniorSubordinatedDebenturesinwholeupontheoccurrenceofoneormoreeventssetforthinthe
indenturesrelatingtotheCapitalSecurities,andinwholeorinpartatanytimeafteranoptional

redemptionpriortocontractualmaturitycontemporaneouslywiththeoptionalredemptionoftherelated

JuniorSubordinatedDebenturesinwholeorinpart,subjecttopossibleregulatoryapproval.InJanuary

2014,M&Tannouncedthatitwillredeemalloftheissuedandoutstanding8.5%$350milliontrust

preferredsecuritiesissuedbyM&TCapitalTrustIVandtherelatedjuniorsubordinateddebenturesheldby

M&TCapitalTrustIVonFebruary27,2014.
Long-termborrowingsatDecember31,2013matureasfollows:
(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2014.......................................................................$
22,0212015.......................................................................5,7562016.......................................................................1,105,0752017.......................................................................1,041,8712018.......................................................................777,991Lateryears
...................................................................2,156,156$5,108,87010.Shareholders™equity
M&Tisauthorizedtoissue1,000,000sharesofpreferredstockwitha$1.00parvaluepershare.Preferred
sharesoutstandingrankseniortocommonsharesbothastodividendsandliquidationpreference,buthave

nogeneralvotingrights.
IssuedandoutstandingpreferredstockofM&Tispresentedbelow:
December31,2013
December31,2012
SharesIssuedand
OutstandingCarryingValueSharesIssuedand
OutstandingCarryingValue(Dollarsinthousands)
SeriesA(a)
FixedRateCumulativePerpetualPreferredStock,
SeriesA,$1,000liquidationpreferencepershare
.....230,000$230,000230,000$226,965
SeriesC(a)

FixedRateCumulativePerpetualPreferredStock,
SeriesC,$1,000liquidationpreferencepershare
.....151,500151,500151,500145,535
SeriesD(b)

FixedRateNon-cumulativePerpetualPreferredStock,
SeriesD,$10,000liquidationpreferencepershare
....50,000500,00050,000500,000
(a)ShareswereoriginallyissuedaspartoftheTARPoftheU.STreasury.Cashproceedswereallocatedbetweenthe
preferredstockandaten-yearwarranttopurchaseM&Tcommonstock(SeriesAŠ1,218,522commonshares

at$73.86pershare,SeriesCŠ407,542commonsharesat$55.76pershare).TheU.S.Treasurysoldallofthe

sharesofM&TpreferredstockthatitheldinAugust2012.Inconnectionwiththatsale,thetermsofthepreferred

stockweremodifiedsuchthatdividends,ifdeclared,werepaidquarterlyatarateof5%peryearthrough

November14,2013andat6.375%thereafter,andM&Tagreedtonotredeemthepreferredsharesuntilonor

afterNovember15,2018.InDecember2012,theU.S.TreasurysoldtootherinvestorstheSeriesAwarrantsfor

$26.50perwarrant.InMarch2013,theU.S.TreasuryexercisedtheSeriesCwarrantsinaﬁcashlessﬂexercise,

resultingintheissuanceof186,589commonshares.During2013,69,127oftheSeriesAwarrantswereexercised

inﬁcashlessﬂexercises,resultingintheissuanceof25,427commonshares.RemainingoutstandingSeriesA

warrantswere1,149,395atDecember31,2013.
(b)Dividends,ifdeclared,willbepaidsemi-annuallyatarateof6.875%peryear.Thesharesareredeemablein
wholeorinpartonorafterJune15,2016.NotwithstandingM&T™soptiontoredeemtheshares,ifanevent

occurssuchthatthesharesnolongerqualifyasTier1capital,M&Tmayredeemalloftheshareswithin90days

followingthatoccurrence.
133InadditiontotheSeriesAandSeriesCwarrantsmentionedin(a)above,aten-yearwarrantto
purchase95,383sharesofM&Tcommonstockat$518.96persharewasoutstandingateachof

December31,2013and2012.ThatwarrantwasissuedbyWilmingtonTrustinDecember2008aspartofthe

TARPoftheU.S.Treasury.
11.Stock-basedcompensationplans
Stock-basedcompensationexpensewas$55millionin2013,$57millionin2012and$56millionin2011.

TheCompanyrecognizedincometaxbenefitsrelatedtostock-basedcompensationof$29millionin2013,

$30millionin2012and$22millionin2011.
TheCompany™sequityincentivecompensationplanallowsfortheissuanceofvariousformsof
stock-basedcompensation,includingstockoptions,restrictedstock,restrictedstockunitsandperformance-

basedawards.ThroughDecember31,2013,onlystock-basedcompensationawards,includingstock

options,restrictedstockandrestrictedstockunits,thatvestwiththepassageoftimeasserviceisprovided

havebeenissued.AtDecember31,2013and2012,respectively,therewere4,874,542and5,307,228shares

availableforfuturegrantundertheCompany™sequityincentivecompensationplan.
Restrictedstockawards
Restrictedstockawardsarecomprisedofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunits.Restrictedstockawards

generallyvestoverfouryears.Unrecognizedcompensationexpenseassociatedwithrestrictedstockwas

$27millionasofDecember31,2013andisexpectedtoberecognizedoveraweighted-averageperiodof

1.5years.TheCompanygenerallywillissuerestrictedsharesfromtreasurystocktotheextentavailable,but

mayalsoissuenewshares.During2013,2012and2011,thenumberofrestrictedsharesissuedwas269,755,

453,908and451,248,respectively,withaweighted-averagegrantdatefairvalueof$27,716,000,$36,969,000

and$38,369,000,respectively.Unrecognizedcompensationexpenseassociatedwithrestrictedstockunits

was$9millionasofDecember31,2013andisexpectedtoberecognizedoveraweighted-averageperiodof

1.4years.During2013,2012and2011thenumberofrestrictedstockunitsissuedwas315,316,278,505and

242,282,respectively,withaweighted-averagegrantdatefairvalueof$32,380,000,$22,139,000and

$20,921,000,respectively.
Asummaryofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunitactivityfollows:
RestrictedStockUnits
OutstandingWeighted-AverageGrantPrice
RestrictedStockOutstandingWeighted-AverageGrantPrice
UnvestedatJanuary1,2013
.......................799,495$70.281,095,631$71.01
Granted.......................................315,316102.69269,755102.75
Vested........................................(341,348)56.43(446,882)56.74
Cancelled......................................(2,633)96.90(55,809)87.05
UnvestedatDecember31,2013
....................770,830$89.58862,695$87.29
Stockoptionawards
Stockoptionsissuedgenerallyvestoverfouryearsandareexercisableovertermsnotexceedingtenyears

andoneday.TheCompanyusedanoptionpricingmodeltoestimatethegrantdatepresentvalueofstock

optionsgranted.Stockoptionsgrantedin2013,2012and2011werenotsignificant.
Asummaryofstockoptionactivityfollows:
StockOptionsOutstandingWeighted-AverageAggregateIntrinsicValue
(Inthousands)
ExercisePriceLife(InYears)
OutstandingatJanuary1,2013
.....................7,033,359$103.30
Granted........................................100
102.69Exercised.......................................(1,998,841)95.27
Expired........................................(153,857)138.46
OutstandingatDecember31,2013
..................4,880,761$105.482.8$66,464
ExercisableatDecember31,2013
...................4,879,148$105.492.8$66,400
134For2013,2012and2011,M&Treceived$172million,$153millionand$28million,respectively,in
cashandrealizedtaxbenefitsfromtheexerciseofstockoptionsof$12million,$8millionand$3million,

respectively.Theintrinsicvalueofstockoptionsexercisedduringthoseperiodswas$34million,$21million

and$7million,respectively.AsofDecember31,2013,theamountofunrecognizedcompensationcost

relatedtonon-vestedstockoptionswasnotsignificant.Thetotalgrantdatefairvalueofstockoptions

vestedduring2013wasnotsignificant,andfor2012and2011was$17millionand$29million,respectively.

Upontheexerciseofstockoptions,theCompanygenerallyissuessharesfromtreasurystocktotheextent

available,butmayalsoissuenewshares.
Stockpurchaseplan
ThestockpurchaseplanprovideseligibleemployeesoftheCompanywiththerighttopurchasesharesof

M&Tcommonstockatadiscountthroughaccumulatedpayrolldeductions.Inconnectionwiththe

employeestockpurchaseplan,2,500,000sharesofM&Tcommonstockwereauthorizedforissuanceunder

aplanadoptedin2013,ofwhichnoshareshavebeenissued.Therewerenosharesissuedin2013,151,014

sharesissuedin2012underapreviousplanandnosharesissuedin2011.For2012M&Treceived

$10,117,000incashforsharespurchasedthroughtheemployeestockpurchaseplan.Compensationexpense

recognizedforthestockpurchaseplanwasnotsignificantin2013,2012or2011.
Deferredbonusplan
TheCompanyprovidedadeferredbonusplanpursuanttowhicheligibleemployeescouldelecttodeferall

oraportionoftheirannualincentivecompensationawardsandallocatesuchawardstoseveralinvestment

options,includingM&Tcommonstock.Participantscouldelectthetimingofdistributionsfromtheplan.

SuchdistributionsarepayableincashwiththeexceptionofbalancesallocatedtoM&Tcommonstock

whicharedistributableintheformofM&Tcommonstock.SharesofM&Tcommonstockdistributable

pursuanttothetermsofthedeferredbonusplanwere33,046and38,593atDecember31,2013and2012,

respectively.Theobligationtoissuesharesisincludedinﬁcommonstockissuableﬂintheconsolidated

balancesheet.ThroughDecember31,2013,139,429shareshavebeenissuedinconnectionwiththedeferred

bonusplan.
Directors™stockplan
TheCompanymaintainsacompensationplanfornon-employeemembersoftheCompany™sboardsof

directorsanddirectorsadvisorycouncilsthatallowssuchmemberstoreceivealloraportionoftheir

compensationinsharesofM&Tcommonstock.ThroughDecember31,2013,197,905shareshadbeen

issuedinconnectionwiththedirectors™stockplan.
Throughacquisitions,theCompanyassumedobligationstoissuesharesofM&Tcommonstock
relatedtodeferreddirectorscompensationplans.Sharesofcommonstockissuableundersuchplanswere

14,185and18,816atDecember31,2013and2012,respectively.Theobligationtoissuesharesisincludedin

ﬁcommonstockissuableﬂintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.
12.Pensionplansandotherpostretirementbenefits
TheCompanyprovidespension(definedbenefitanddefinedcontributionplans)andotherpostretirement

benefits(includingdefinedbenefithealthcareandlifeinsuranceplans)toqualifiedretiredemployees.The

CompanyusesaDecember31measurementdateforallofitsplans.
Netperiodicpensionexpensefordefinedbenefitplansconsistedofthefollowing:
YearEndedDecember31
201320122011(Inthousands)
Servicecost
..................................................$
24,360$29,549$28,828
Interestcostonbenefitobligation
................................60,13062,03758,545
Expectedreturnonplanassets
..................................(87,353)(70,511)(60,700)
Amortizationofpriorservicecredit
..............................(6,556)(6,559)(6,559)
Recognizednetactuarialloss
....................................41,07637,38620,530
Netperiodicpensionexpense
...................................$
31,657$51,902$40,644
135Netotherpostretirementbenefitsexpensefordefinedbenefitplansconsistedofthefollowing:
YearEndedDecember31
201320122011(Inthousands)
Servicecost
......................................................$742$668$535
Interestcostonbenefitobligation
....................................2,6913,7373,761
Amortizationofpriorservicecost(credit)
.............................(1,359)21107
Recognizednetactuarialloss
........................................36053036
Netotherpostretirementbenefitsexpense
.............................$
2,434$4,956$4,439
Datarelatingtothefundingpositionofthedefinedbenefitplanswereasfollows:
PensionBenefits
OtherPostretirementBenefits
2013201220132012(Inthousands)
Changeinbenefitobligation:
Benefitobligationatbeginningofyear
............$1,644,567$1,496,490$74,966$90,104
Servicecost
..................................24,36029,549742668
Interestcost
..................................60,13062,0372,6913,737
Planparticipants™contributions
..................ŠŠ
3,0693,765
Amendments.................................ŠŠŠ
(13,313)Actuarial(gain)loss
...........................(184,181)116,237(12,830)(182)
Settlements/curtailments.......................Š
(320)ŠŠ
MedicarePartDreimbursement
.................ŠŠ509918
Benefitspaid
.................................(60,683)(59,426)(8,555)(10,731)
Benefitobligationatendofyear
..................1,484,1931,644,56760,59274,966
Changeinplanassets:
Fairvalueofplanassetsatbeginningofyear
........1,408,7711,117,972ŠŠ
Actualreturnonplanassets
.....................150,795143,430ŠŠ
Employercontributions
........................7,801207,1154,9776,048
Planparticipants™contributions
..................ŠŠ
3,0693,765
MedicarePartDreimbursement
.................ŠŠ509918
Settlements..................................Š
(320)ŠŠ
Benefitsandotherpayments
....................(60,683)(59,426)(8,555)(10,731)
Fairvalueofplanassetsatendofyear
.............1,506,6841,408,771ŠŠ
Fundedstatus
..................................$
22,491$(235,796)$(60,592)$(74,966)
Assetsandliabilitiesrecognizedintheconsolidated
balancesheetwere:
Netprepaidasset
..............................$
139,576$Š$Š$Š
Accruedliabilities
.............................(117,085)(235,796)(60,592)(74,966)
Amountsrecognizedinaccumulatedother
comprehensiveincome(ﬁAOCIﬂ)were:
Netloss(gain)
................................$
191,386$480,084$(1,056)$12,134
Netpriorservicecost
..........................(16,899)(23,455)(11,814)(13,173)
Pre-taxadjustmenttoAOCI
.....................174,487456,629(12,870)(1,039)
Taxes........................................(68,486)(179,227)5,051408
NetadjustmenttoAOCI.
.......................$
106,001$277,402$(7,819)$(631)
136TheCompanyhasanunfundedsupplementalpensionplanforcertainkeyexecutives.Theprojected
benefitobligationandaccumulatedbenefitobligationincludedintheprecedingdatarelatedtosuchplan

were$117,085,000asofDecember31,2013and$130,745,000asofDecember31,2012.
Theaccumulatedbenefitobligationforalldefinedbenefitpensionplanswas$1,460,498,000and
$1,618,119,000atDecember31,2013and2012,respectively.
GAAPrequiresanemployertorecognizeinitsbalancesheetasanassetorliabilitytheoverfundedor
underfundedstatusofadefinedbenefitpostretirementplan,measuredasthedifferencebetweenthefair

valueofplanassetsandthebenefitobligation.Forapensionplan,thebenefitobligationistheprojected

benefitobligation;foranyotherpostretirementbenefitplan,suchasaretireehealthcareplan,thebenefit

obligationistheaccumulatedpostretirementbenefitobligation.Gainsorlossesandpriorservicecostsor

creditsthatariseduringtheperiod,butarenotincludedascomponentsofnetperiodicbenefitexpense,are

recognizedasacomponentofothercomprehensiveincome.Asindicatedintheprecedingtable,asof

December31,2013theCompanyrecordedaminimumliabilityadjustmentof$161,617,000($174,487,000

relatedtopensionplansand$(12,870,000)relatedtootherpostretirementbenefits)withacorresponding

reductionofshareholders™equity,netofapplicabledeferredtaxes,of$98,182,000.Inaggregate,thebenefit

plansrealizedanetgainduring2013thatresultedfromactualexperiencedifferingfromtheplan

assumptionsutilizedandfromchangesinactuarialassumptions.Themainfactorscontributingtothatgain

wereactualinvestmentreturnsfromassetsinthequalifieddefinedbenefitpensionplanthatexceeded

expectedreturnsandfromanincreaseinthediscountrateusedinthemeasurementofthebenefit

obligationsto4.75%atDecember31,2013from3.75%atDecember31,2012.Asaresult,theCompany

decreaseditsminimumliabilityadjustmentfromthatwhichwasrecordedatDecember31,2012by

$293,973,000withacorrespondingincreasetoshareholders™equitythat,netofapplicabledeferredtaxes,

was$178,589,000.Thetablebelowreflectsthechangesinplanassetsandbenefitobligationsrecognizedin

othercomprehensiveincomerelatedtotheCompany™spostretirementbenefitplans.
PensionPlans
OtherPostretirementBenefitPlans
Total(Inthousands)
2013Netgain
...............................................$(247,622)$(12,830)$(260,452)
Amortizationofpriorservicecredit
.........................6,5561,3597,915
Amortizationofloss
......................................(41,076)(360)(41,436)
Totalrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincome,pre-tax
.......$(282,142)$(11,831)$(293,973)
2012Netloss(gain)
..........................................$
43,318$(182)$43,136
Priorservicecredit
.......................................Š
(13,313)(13,313)
Amortizationofpriorservice(cost)credit
....................6,559(21)6,538
Amortizationofloss
......................................(37,386)(530)(37,916)
Totalrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincome,pre-tax
.......$
12,491$(14,046)$(1,555)
Thefollowingtablereflectstheamortizationofamountsinaccumulatedothercomprehensive
incomeexpectedtoberecognizedascomponentsofnetperiodicbenefitexpenseduring2014:
PensionPlans
OtherPostretirementBenefitPlans
(Inthousands)
Amortizationofnetpriorservicecredit
.................................$
(6,552)$(1,359)
Amortizationofnetloss
..............................................13,460Š
TheCompanyalsoprovidesaqualifieddefinedcontributionpensionplantoeligibleemployeeswho
werenotparticipantsinthedefinedbenefitpensionplanasofDecember31,2005andtootheremployees

whohaveelectedtoparticipateinthedefinedcontributionplan.TheCompanymakescontributionstothe
137definedcontributionplaneachyearinanamountthatisbasedonanindividualparticipant™stotal
compensation(generallydefinedastotalwages,incentivecompensation,commissionsandbonuses)and

yearsofservice.Participantsdonotcontributetothedefinedcontributionpensionplan.Pensionexpense

recordedin2013,2012and2011associatedwiththedefinedcontributionpensionplanwasapproximately

$21million,$17millionand$13million,respectively.
AssumptionsTheassumedweighted-averageratesusedtodeterminebenefitobligationsatDecember31were:
PensionBenefitsOtherPostretirementBenefits2013201220132012Discountrate
.....................................................4.75%3.75%4.75%3.75%
Rateofincreaseinfuturecompensationlevels
...........................4.42%4.50%ŠŠ
Theassumedweighted-averageratesusedtodeterminenetbenefitexpensefortheyearsended
December31were:
PensionBenefits
OtherPostretirementBenefits
201320122011201320122011Discountrate
........................................3.75%4.25%5.25%3.75%4.25%5.25%
Long-termrateofreturnonplanassets
...................6.50%6.50%6.50%ŠŠŠ
Rateofincreaseinfuturecompensationlevels
..............4.50%4.50%4.50%ŠŠŠ
Theexpectedlong-termrateofreturnassumptionasofeachmeasurementdatewasdeveloped
throughanalysisofhistoricalmarketreturns,currentmarketconditions,anticipatedfutureassetallocations,

thefunds™pastexperience,andexpectationsonpotentialfuturemarketreturns.Theexpectedrateofreturn

assumptionrepresentsalong-termaverageviewoftheperformanceoftheplanassets,areturnthatmayor

maynotbeachievedduringanyonecalendaryear.
Formeasurementofotherpostretirementbenefits,a7.50%annualrateofincreaseinthepercapita
costofcoveredhealthcarebenefitswasassumedfor2014.Theratewasassumedtodecreaseto5.0%over

30years.Aone-percentagepointchangeinassumedhealthcarecosttrendrateswouldhavehadthe

followingeffects:
+1%-1%(Inthousands)
Increase(decrease)in:
Serviceandinterestcost
.....................................................$100$
(91)Accumulatedpostretirementbenefitobligation
..................................2,147(1,947)
PlanAssets
TheCompany™spolicyistoinvestthepensionplanassetsinaprudentmannerforthepurposeofproviding

benefitpaymentstoparticipantsandmitigatingreasonableexpensesofadministration.TheCompany™s

investmentstrategyisdesignedtoprovideatotalreturnthat,overthelong-term,placesastrongemphasis

onthepreservationofcapital.Thestrategyattemptstomaximizeinvestmentreturnsonassetsatalevelof

riskdeemedappropriatebytheCompanywhilecomplyingwithapplicableregulationsandlaws.The

investmentstrategyutilizesassetdiversificationasaprincipaldeterminantforestablishinganappropriate

riskprofilewhileemphasizingtotalreturnrealizedfromcapitalappreciation,dividendsandinterestincome.

Thetargetallocationsforplanassetsaregenerally45to80percentequitysecurities,5to40percentdebt

securities,and3to30percentmoney-marketfunds/cashequivalentsandotherinvestments,although

holdingscouldbemoreorlessthanthesegeneralguidelinesbasedonmarketconditionsatthetimeand

actionstakenorrecommendedbytheinvestmentmanagersprovidingadvicetotheCompany.Equity

securitiesincludeinvestmentsinlarge-capandmid-capcompanieslocatedintheUnitedStatesandequity

mutualfundswithdomesticandinternationalinvestments,and,toalesserextent,directinvestmentsin
138foreign-basedcompanies.Debtsecuritiesincludecorporatebondsofcompaniesfromdiversifiedindustries,
mortgage-backedsecuritiesguaranteedbygovernmentagencies,U.S.Treasurysecurities,andmutualfunds

thatinvestindebtsecurities.Additionally,theCompany™sdefinedbenefitpensionplanheld$168,040,000

(11.2%oftotalassets)ofrealestate,privateequityandotherinvestmentsatDecember31,2013.Returnson

investedassetsareperiodicallycomparedwithtargetmarketindicesforeachassettypetoaidmanagement

inevaluatingsuchreturns.Furthermore,managementregularlyreviewstheinvestmentpolicyandmay,if

deemedappropriate,makechangestothetargetallocationsnotedabove.
ThefairvaluesoftheCompany™spensionplanassetsatDecember31,2013,byassetcategory,wereas
follows:FairValueMeasurementofPlanAssetsAtDecember31,2013
TotalQuotedPrices
inActive
MarketsforIdenticalAssets
(Level1)
SignificantObservableInputs(Level2)
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level3)
(Inthousands)
Assetcategory:
Money-marketfunds
......................$
37,952$37,952$Š$Š
Equitysecurities:
M&T.................................
142,955142,955ŠŠ
Domestic(a)............................271,203271,203ŠŠ
International...........................24,05324,053ŠŠ
Mutualfunds:
Domestic............................194,099194,099ŠŠ
International.........................413,685413,685ŠŠ
1,045,9951,045,995ŠŠ
Debtsecurities:
Corporate(b)...........................63,196Š63,196Š
Government...........................75,043Š75,043Š
International...........................2,443Š2,443Š
Mutualfunds:
Domestic(c)..........................68,28068,280ŠŠ
International.........................43,74243,742ŠŠ
252,704112,022140,682Š
Other:Diversifiedmutualfund
..................93,05593,055ŠŠ
Privaterealestate
........................3,123ŠŠ3,123
Privateequity
...........................6,199ŠŠ6,199
Hedgefunds
............................65,66341,489Š24,174
168,040134,544Š33,496
Total(d).................................$1,504,691$1,330,513$140,682$33,496
139ThefairvaluesoftheCompany™spensionplanassetsatDecember31,2012,byassetcategory,wereas
follows:FairValueMeasurementofPlanAssetsAtDecember31,2012
TotalQuotedPrices
inActive
MarketsforIdenticalAssets
(Level1)
SignificantObservableInputs(Level2)
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level3)
(Inthousands)
Assetcategory:
Money-marketfunds
.........................$
46,657$46,657$Š$Š
Equitysecurities:
M&T....................................
120,914120,914ŠŠ
Domestic(a)..............................147,382147,382ŠŠ
International.............................8,5618,561ŠŠ
Mutualfunds:
Domestic..............................188,950188,950ŠŠ
International...........................208,696208,696ŠŠ
674,503674,503ŠŠ
Debtsecurities:
Corporate(b).............................307,712Š307,712Š
Government..............................141,224Š141,224Š
International.............................10,230Š10,230Š
Mutualfunds:
Domestic(c)............................107,576107,576ŠŠ
International...........................54,36254,362ŠŠ
621,104161,938459,166Š
Other:Diversifiedmutualfund
....................10,41510,415ŠŠ
Privaterealestate
..........................4,603ŠŠ4,603
Privateequity
.............................5,347ŠŠ5,347
Hedgefunds
..............................41,50910,000Š31,509
61,87420,415Š41,459
Total(d)...................................$1,404,138$903,513$459,166$41,459
(a)Thiscategoryiscomprisedofequitiesofcompaniesprimarilywithinthemid-capandlarge-capsectoroftheU.S.
economyandrangeacrossdiverseindustries.
(b)ThiscategoryrepresentsinvestmentgradebondsofU.S.issuersfromdiverseindustries.

(c)Approximately35%ofthemutualfundswereinvestedininvestmentgradebondsofU.S.issuersand65%in
high-yieldingbondsatDecember31,2013.Approximately40%ofthemutualfundswereinvestedininvestment

gradebondsofU.S.issuersand60%inhigh-yieldingbondsatDecember31,2012.Theholdingswithinthefunds

arespreadacrossdiverseindustries.
(d)Excludesdividendsandinterestreceivabletotaling$1,993,000and$4,633,000atDecember31,2013and2012,
respectively.PensionplanassetsincludedcommonstockofM&Twithafairvalueof$142,955,000(9.5%oftotal
planassets)atDecember31,2013and$120,914,000(8.6%oftotalplanassets)atDecember31,2012.No

investmentinsecuritiesofanon-U.S.Governmentorgovernmentagencyissuerexceededtenpercentof

planassetsatDecember31,2013.AssetssubjecttoLevel3valuationsdidnotconstituteasignificantportion

ofplanassetsatDecember31,2013orDecember31,2012.
140ThechangesinLevel3pensionplanassetsmeasuredatestimatedfairvalueonarecurringbasis
duringtheyearendedDecember31,2013wereasfollows:
BalanceŒ
January1,
2013Sales/PurchasesTotalRealized/UnrealizedGains(Losses)
BalanceŒ
December31,
2013(Inthousands)
OtherPrivaterealestate
...............................$
4,603$(308)$(1,172)$3,123
Privateequity
..................................5,3471656876,199
Hedgefunds
...................................31,509(9,873)2,53824,174
Total.......................................$41,459$(10,016)$2,053$33,496
TheCompanymakescontributionstoitsfundedqualifieddefinedbenefitpensionplanasrequired
bygovernmentregulationorasdeemedappropriatebymanagementafterconsideringfactorssuchasthe

fairvalueofplanassets,expectedreturnsonsuchassets,andthepresentvalueofbenefitobligationsofthe

plan.Subjecttotheimpactofactualeventsandcircumstancesthatmayoccurin2014,theCompanymay

makecontributionstothequalifieddefinedbenefitpensionplanin2014,buttheamountofanysuch

contributionhasnotyetbeendetermined.TheCompanymadecashcontributionsof$200millionand$70

milliontothequalifieddefinedbenefitpensionplanin2012and2011,respectively.TheCompanydidnot

makeanycontributionstotheplanin2013.TheCompanyregularlyfundsthepaymentofbenefit

obligationsforthesupplementaldefinedbenefitpensionandpostretirementbenefitplansbecausesuch

plansdonotholdassetsforinvestment.PaymentsmadebytheCompanyforsupplementalpensionbenefits

were$7,801,000and$7,115,000in2013and2012,respectively.PaymentsmadebytheCompanyfor

postretirementbenefitswere$4,977,000and$6,048,000in2013and2012,respectively.Paymentsfor

supplementalpensionandotherpostretirementbenefitsfor2014arenotexpectedtodifferfromthosemade

in2013byanamountthatwillbematerialtotheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialposition.
EstimatedbenefitsexpectedtobepaidinfutureyearsrelatedtotheCompany™sdefinedbenefit
pensionandotherpostretirementbenefitsplansareasfollows:
PensionBenefitsOtherPostretirementBenefits(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2014.............................................................$
65,970$6,780
2015.............................................................67,9936,503
2016.............................................................73,6286,283
2017.............................................................77,1805,995
2018.............................................................80,3805,741
2019through2023
.................................................461,39725,172
TheCompanyhasaretirementsavingsplan(ﬁRSPﬂ)thatisadefinedcontributionplaninwhich
eligibleemployeesoftheCompanymaydeferupto50%ofqualifiedcompensationviacontributionstothe

plan.TheCompanymakesanemployermatchingcontributioninanamountequalto75%ofanemployee™s

contribution,upto4.5%oftheemployee™squalifiedcompensation.Employees™accounts,including

employeecontributions,employermatchingcontributionsandaccumulatedearningsthereon,areatall

timesfullyvestedandnonforfeitable.EmployeebenefitsexpenseresultingfromtheCompany™s

contributionstotheRSPtotaled$31,797,000,$31,305,000and$27,738,000in2013,2012and2011,

respectively.14113.Incometaxes
Thecomponentsofincometaxexpense(benefit)wereasfollows:
YearEndedDecember31
201320122011(Inthousands)
CurrentFederal...................................................$371,249$309,156$277,631
Stateandcity
..............................................68,03582,01453,566
Totalcurrent
............................................439,284391,170331,197
DeferredFederal...................................................106,537117,22934,325
Stateandcity
..............................................33,24814,629(401)
Totaldeferred
...........................................139,785131,85833,924
Totalincometaxesapplicabletopre-taxincome
...............$
579,069$523,028$365,121
TheCompanyfilesaconsolidatedfederalincometaxreturnreflectingtaxableincomeearnedbyall
domesticsubsidiaries.Inprioryears,applicablefederaltaxlawallowedcertainfinancialinstitutionsthe

optionofdeductingasbaddebtexpensefortaxpurposesamountsinexcessofactuallosses.Inaccordance

withGAAP,suchfinancialinstitutionswerenotrequiredtoprovidedeferredincometaxesonsuchexcess.

Recaptureoftheexcesstaxbaddebtreserveestablishedunderthepreviouslyallowedmethodwillresultin

taxableincomeifM&TBankfailstomaintainbankstatusasdefinedintheInternalRevenueCodeor

chargesaremadetothereserveforotherthanbaddebtlosses.AtDecember31,2013,M&TBank™staxbad

debtreserveforwhichnofederalincometaxeshavebeenprovidedwas$79,121,000.Noactionsareplanned

thatwouldcausethisreservetobecomewhollyorpartiallytaxable.
Incometaxesattributabletogainsorlossesonbankinvestmentsecuritieswereexpensesof
$18,313,000in2013and$28,712,000in2011andabenefitof$18,766,000in2012.Noalternativeminimum

taxexpensewasrecognizedin2013,2012or2011.
Totalincometaxesdifferedfromtheamountcomputedbyapplyingthestatutoryfederalincometax
ratetopre-taxincomeasfollows:
YearEndedDecember31
201320122011(Inthousands)
Incometaxesatstatutoryfederalincometaxrate
...................$
601,142$543,384$428,610
Increase(decrease)intaxes:
Tax-exemptincome
........................................(34,747)(33,890)(33,799)
Stateandcityincometaxes,netoffederalincometaxeffect
........65,83462,81834,557
Lowincomehousingandothercredits
.........................(49,206)(42,074)(40,763)
Non-taxablegainonacquisition
..............................ŠŠ
(22,725)Other....................................................(3,954)(7,210)(759)
$579,069$523,028$365,121
142Deferredtaxassets(liabilities)werecomprisedofthefollowingatDecember31:
201320122011(Inthousands)
Lossesonloansandotherassets
............................$
645,713$809,033$896,219
Postretirementandotheremployeebenefits
..................30,02334,51739,992
Incentivecompensationplans
..............................37,77250,06749,183
Interestonloans
.........................................100,72572,27846,965
Retirementbenefits
......................................Š
91,980147,997
Stock-basedcompensation
................................63,10169,87478,014
Unrealizedinvestmentlosses
...............................ŠŠ
50,528Depreciationandamortization
.............................1,40412,1309,563
Other.................................................121,561103,02799,012
Grossdeferredtaxassets
................................1,000,2991,242,9061,417,473
Leasingtransactions
......................................(284,370)(291,524)(294,150)
Unrealizedinvestmentgains
...............................(21,779)(23,574)Š
Capitalizedservicingrights
................................(46,041)(20,348)(17,603)
Interestonsubordinatednoteexchange
......................(6,075)(8,794)(11,275)
Retirementbenefits
......................................(9,397)ŠŠ
Other.................................................(49,450)(61,410)(48,803)
Grossdeferredtaxliabilities
.............................(417,112)(405,650)(371,831)
Netdeferredtaxasset
.....................................$
583,187$837,256$1,045,642
TheCompanybelievesthatitismorelikelythannotthatthedeferredtaxassetswillberealized
throughtaxableearningsoralternativetaxstrategies.
TheincometaxcreditsshowninthestatementofincomeofM&Tinnote25ariseprincipallyfrom
operatinglossesbeforedividendsfromsubsidiaries.
143Areconciliationofthebeginningandendingamountofunrecognizedtaxbenefitsfollows:
Federal,Stateand
LocalTax
AccruedInterestUnrecognizedIncomeTax
Benefits(Inthousands)
GrossunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatJanuary1,2011
......................................$24,853$20,696$45,549
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakenduring2011
...........4,659Š4,659
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultofsettlementswithtaxingauthorities
........(9,742)(5,497)(15,239)
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakeninprioryears
..........Š
(1,645)(1,645)
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsbecauseapplicablereturnsarenolongersubjectto
examination...................................................................(8,471)(8,201)(16,672)
Unrecognizedtaxbenefitsacquiredinabusinesscombination
.............................7,0343,92410,958
GrossunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatDecember31,2011
...................................18,3339,27727,610
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakenduring2012
...........860Š860
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakeninprioryears
..........Š
4,5144,514
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultofsettlementswithtaxingauthorities
........(1,002)Š(1,002)
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsbecauseapplicablereturnsarenolongersubjectto
examination...................................................................(1,643)(1,412)(3,055)
GrossunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatDecember31,2012
...................................16,54812,37928,927
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakenduring2013
...........2,267Š2,267
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakeninprioryears
..........Š
4,4294,429
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultofsettlementswithtaxingauthorities
........(1,854)(487)(2,341)
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsbecauseapplicablereturnsarenolongersubjectto
examination...................................................................(2,350)(1,625)(3,975)
GrossunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatDecember31,2013
...................................$14,611$14,69629,307
Less:Federal,stateandlocalincometaxbenefits
........................................(9,611)NetunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatDecember31,2013that,ifrecognized,wouldimpactthe
effectiveincometaxrate
.........................................................$
19,696TheCompany™spolicyistorecognizeinterestandpenalties,ifany,relatedtounrecognizedtax
benefitsinincometaxesintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.Thebalanceofaccruedinterestat

December31,2013isincludedinthetableabove.TheCompany™sfederal,stateandlocalincometaxreturns

areroutinelysubjecttoexaminationsfromvariousgovernmentaltaxingauthorities.Suchexaminationsmay

resultinchallengestothetaxreturntreatmentappliedbytheCompanytospecifictransactions.

Managementbelievesthattheassumptionsandjudgmentusedtorecordtax-relatedassetsorliabilitieshave

beenappropriate.Shoulddeterminationsrenderedbytaxauthoritiesultimatelyindicatethatmanagement™s

assumptionswereinappropriate,theresultandadjustmentsrequiredcouldhaveamaterialeffectonthe

Company™sresultsofoperations.Understatute,theCompany™sfederalincometaxreturnsfortheyears

2010,2011and2012couldbeadjustedbytheInternalRevenueService,althoughexaminationsforthosetax

yearshavebeenconcluded.TheCompanyalsofilesincometaxreturnsinoverfortystatesandnumerous

localjurisdictions.Substantiallyallmaterialstateandlocalmattershavebeenconcludedforyearsthrough

2010.Itisnotreasonablypossibletoestimatewhenexaminationsforanysubsequentyearswillbe

completed.14414.Earningspercommonshare
Thecomputationsofbasicearningspercommonsharefollow:
YearEndedDecember31
201320122011(Inthousands,exceptpershare)
Incomeavailabletocommonshareholders:
Netincome
................................................$
1,138,480$1,029,498$859,479
Less:Preferredstockdividends(a)
..............................(54,120)(53,450)(45,839)
Amortizationofpreferredstockdiscount(a)
..................(7,942)(8,026)(20,018)
Netincomeavailabletocommonequity
.........................1,076,418968,022793,622
Less:Incomeattributabletounvestedstock-basedcompensation
awards..............................................(13,989)(14,632)(11,879)
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders
......................$
1,062,429$953,390$781,743
Weighted-averagesharesoutstanding:
Commonsharesoutstanding(includingcommonstockissuable)
andunvestedstock-basedcompensationawards
..............130,354127,793124,524
Less:Unvestedstock-basedcompensationawards
...............(1,700)(1,929)(1,861)
Weighted-averagesharesoutstanding
.............................128,654125,864122,663
Basicearningspercommonshare
................................$8.26$
7.57$6.37
(a)Includingimpactofnotasyetdeclaredcumulativedividends.
Thecomputationsofdilutedearningspercommonsharefollow:
YearEndedDecember31
201320122011(Inthousands,exceptpershare)
Netincomeavailabletocommonequity
.............................$
1,076,418$968,022$793,622
Less:Incomeattributabletounvestedstock-basedcompensation
awards................................................(13,922)(14,593)(11,857)
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders
.......................$
1,062,496$953,429$781,765
Adjustedweighted-averagesharesoutstanding:
Commonandunvestedstock-basedcompensationawards
............130,354127,793124,524
Less:Unvestedstock-basedcompensationawards
...................(1,700)(1,929)(1,861)
Plus:Incrementalsharesfromassumedconversionofstock-based
compensationawards
...................................949541416
Adjustedweighted-averagesharesoutstanding
.......................129,603126,405123,079
Dilutedearningspercommonshare
................................$8.20$
7.54$6.35
GAAPdefinesunvestedshare-basedawardsthatcontainnonforfeitablerightstodividendsor
dividendequivalents(whetherpaidorunpaid)asparticipatingsecuritiesthatshallbeincludedinthe

computationofearningspercommonsharepursuanttothetwo-classmethod.TheCompanyhasissued

stock-basedcompensationawardsintheformofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunits,which,in

accordancewithGAAP,areconsideredparticipatingsecurities.
Stock-basedcompensationawardsandwarrantstopurchasecommonstockofM&Trepresenting
approximately3,847,000,8,905,000and11,268,000commonsharesduring2013,2012and2011,

respectively,werenotincludedinthecomputationsofdilutedearningspercommonsharebecausetheeffect

onthoseyearswouldhavebeenantidilutive.
14515.Comprehensiveincome
Thefollowingtablesdisplaythecomponentsofothercomprehensiveincome(loss)andamountsreclassified
fromaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome(loss)tonetincome.
InvestmentSecurities
DefinedBenefitPlansOtherTotalAmountBeforeTax
IncomeTaxNetWithOTTIAllOther(inthousands)
BalanceŠJanuary1,2013
.........$
(91,835)152,199(455,590)(431)$(395,657)155,393$(240,264)
Othercomprehensiveincomebefore
reclassifications:Unrealizedholdinggains(losses),
net........................
77,794(129,628)ŠŠ(51,834)20,311(31,523)
Foreigncurrencytranslation
adjustment.................ŠŠŠ546546
(165)381
Currentyearpension
gains(losses)
................ŠŠ
260,452Š260,452(102,227)158,225
Totalothercomprehensiveincome
beforereclassifications
..........77,794(129,628)260,452546209,164(82,081)127,083
Amountsreclassifiedfrom
accumulatedother

comprehensiveincomethat

(increase)decreasenetincome:
Accretionofunrealizedholding
lossesonheld-to-maturity

(ﬁHTMﬂ)securities
...........279
4,008ŠŠ4,287(a)(1,683)2,604
OTTIchargesrecognizedinnet
income.....................9,800ŠŠŠ9,800(b)(3,847)5,953
Losses(gains)realizedinnet
income.....................41,217(8,129)ŠŠ33,088(c)(12,987)20,101
Amortizationofpriorservice
credit......................ŠŠ
(7,915)Š(7,915)(e)3,107(4,808)
Amortizationofactuariallosses...ŠŠ41,436Š41,436(e)(16,264)25,172
Totalreclassifications
.............51,296(4,121)33,521Š80,696(31,674)49,022
Totalgain(loss)duringthe
period.......................129,090(133,749)293,973546289,860(113,755)176,105
BalanceŠDecember31,2013
......$
37,25518,450(161,617)115$(105,797)41,638$(64,159)
146InvestmentSecurities
DefinedBenefitPlansOtherTotalAmountBeforeTax
IncomeTaxNetWithOTTIAllOther(inthousands)
BalanceŠJanuary1,2012
........$(138,319)9,757(457,145)(1,062)$(586,769)230,328$(356,441)
Othercomprehensiveincomebefore
reclassifications:Unrealizedholdinggains(losses),
net........................
(2,998)137,921ŠŠ134,923(52,905)82,018
Foreigncurrencytranslation
adjustment.................ŠŠŠ809809
(290)519
Currentyearpension
gains(losses)
...............ŠŠ
(29,823)Š(29,823)11,705(18,118)
Totalothercomprehensiveincome
beforereclassifications
..........(2,998)137,921(29,823)809105,909(41,490)64,419
Amountsreclassifiedfrom
accumulatedothercomprehensive

incomethat(increase)decrease

netincome:
Accretionofunrealizedholding
lossesonHTMsecurities
......1,6604,530ŠŠ6,190(a)(2,430)3,760
OTTIchargesrecognizedinnet
income....................47,822ŠŠŠ47,822(b)(18,770)29,052
Losses(gains)realizedinnet
income....................Š(9)ŠŠ(9
)(c)4(5)
Amortizationofgainson
terminatedcashflowhedges...ŠŠŠ(178)(178)66(112)
Amortizationofpriorservice
credit.....................ŠŠ
(6,538)Š(6,538)(e)2,566(3,972)
Amortizationofactuariallosses..ŠŠ37,916Š37,916(e)(14,881)23,035
Totalreclassifications
............49,4824,52131,378(178)85,203(33,445)51,758
Totalgain(loss)duringthe
period.......................46,484142,4421,555631191,112(74,935)116,177
BalanceŠDecember31,2012
.....$
(91,835)152,199(455,590)(431)$(395,657)155,393$(240,264)
147InvestmentSecurities
DefinedBenefitPlansOtherTotalAmountBeforeTax
IncomeTaxNetWithOTTIAllOther(inthousands)
BalanceŠJanuary1,2011
........$(143,139)3,860(198,999)626$(337,652)132,432$(205,220)
Othercomprehensiveincomebefore
reclassifications:Unrealizedholdinggains(losses),
net.......................
(68,946)145,522ŠŠ76,576(29,786)46,790
Foreigncurrencytranslation
adjustment................ŠŠŠ
(1,240)(1,240)437(803)
Currentyearpension
gains(losses)
...............ŠŠ
(272,260)Š(272,260)106,862(165,398)
Totalothercomprehensiveincome
beforereclassifications
.........(68,946)145,522(272,260)(1,240)(196,924)77,513(119,411)
Amountsreclassifiedfrom
accumulatedother

comprehensiveincomethat

(increase)decreasenetincome:
Accretionofunrealizedholding
lossesonHTMsecurities
.....545
6,490ŠŠ7,035(a)(2,762)4,273
OTTIchargesrecognizedinnet
income....................77,035ŠŠŠ77,035(b)(30,235)46,800
Losses(gains)realizedinnet
income....................(3,814)(146,115)ŠŠ(149,929)(c)58,753(91,176)
Amortizationofgainson
terminatedcashflowhedges..ŠŠŠ(448)(448)(d)167(281)
Amortizationofpriorservice
credit.....................ŠŠ
(6,452)Š(6,452)(e)2,532(3,920)
Amortizationofactuariallosses...ŠŠ20,566Š20,566(e)(8,072)12,494
Totalreclassifications
............73,766(139,625)14,114(448)(52,193)20,383(31,810)
Totalgain(loss)duringthe
period......................4,8205,897(258,146)(1,688)(249,117)97,896(151,221)
BalanceŠDecember31,2011
.....$(138,319)9,757(457,145)(1,062)$(586,769)230,328$(356,441)
(a)Includedininterestincome.
(b)IncludedinOTTIlossesrecognizedinearnings.

(c)Includedingain(loss)onbankinvestmentsecurities.

(d)Includedininterestexpense.

(e)Includedinsalariesandemployeebenefitsexpense.
148Accumulatedothercomprehensiveincome(loss),netconsistedofunrealizedgains(losses)asfollows:
InvestmentSecurities
CashFlowHedgesForeignCurrencyTranslationAdjustmentDefinedBenefitPlansTotalWithOTTI
AllOther
(Inthousands)
BalanceatJanuary1,2011
........$(87,053)$2,332$393$Š$(120,892)$(205,220)
Netgain(loss)during2011
.......3,0243,663(281)(803)(156,824)(151,221)
BalanceatDecember31,2011
....(84,029)5,995112(803)(277,716)(356,441)
Netgain(loss)during2012
.......28,23986,586(112)519945116,177
BalanceatDecember31,2012
....(55,790)92,581Š(284)(276,771)(240,264)
Netgain(loss)during2013
.......78,422(81,287)Š381178,589176,105
BalanceatDecember31,2013
....$
22,632$11,294$Š$97$(98,182)$(64,159)
16.Otherincomeandotherexpense
Thefollowingitems,whichexceeded1%oftotalinterestincomeandotherincomeintherespectiveperiod,
wereincludedineitherﬁotherrevenuesfromoperationsﬂorﬁothercostsofoperationsﬂintheconsolidated

statementofincome:
YearEndedDecember31
201320122011(Inthousands)
Otherincome:
Bankownedlifeinsurance
.....................................$
56,120$51,199$50,776
Credit-relatedfeeincome
.....................................72,27168,59673,886
Letterofcreditfees
...........................................59,88958,49656,247
Non-taxablegainfrombusinesscombination
.....................64,930Gainsfromloansecuritizationtransactions
.......................63,066Otherexpense:
Professionalservices
.........................................335,794248,544222,122
Amortizationofcapitalizedservicingrights
.......................65,35459,55555,859
Advertisingandpromotion
....................................56,59752,38858,312
Write-downofinvestmentinBayviewLendingGroupLLC(ﬁBLGﬂ)..79,012
17.Internationalactivities
TheCompanyengagesincertaininternationalactivitiesconsistinglargelyofcollectingEurodollardeposits,
engaginginforeigncurrencytradingonbehalfofcustomers,providingcredittosupporttheinternational

activitiesofdomesticcompaniesandholdingcertainloanstoforeignborrowers.Asaresultofthe

WilmingtonTrustacquisition,theCompanyofferscertaintrust-relatedservicesinEuropeandtheCayman

Islands.Revenuesfromprovidingsuchtrust-relatedserviceswereapproximately$26millionin2013,$24

millionin2012and$15millionin2011.Netassetsidentifiedwithinternationalactivitiesamountedto$226

millionand$179millionatDecember31,2013and2012,respectively.Suchassetsincluded$192million

and$149million,respectively,ofloanstoforeignborrowers.DepositsatM&TBank™sCaymanIslandsoffice

were$323millionand$1.0billionatDecember31,2013and2012,respectively.TheCompanyusessuch

depositstofacilitatecustomerdemandandasanalternativetoshort-termborrowingswhenthecostsof

suchdepositsseemreasonable.
18.Derivativefinancialinstruments
Aspartofmanaginginterestraterisk,theCompanyentersintointerestrateswapagreementstomodifythe

repricingcharacteristicsofcertainportionsoftheCompany™sportfoliosofearningassetsandinterest-

bearingliabilities.TheCompanydesignatesinterestrateswapagreementsutilizedinthemanagementof
149interestrateriskaseitherfairvaluehedgesorcashflowhedges.Interestrateswapagreementsaregenerally
enteredintowithcounterpartiesthatmeetestablishedcreditstandardsandmostcontainmasternettingand

collateralprovisionsprotectingtheat-riskparty.BasedonadherencetotheCompany™screditstandardsand

thepresenceofthenettingandcollateralprovisions,theCompanybelievesthatthecreditriskinherentin

thesecontractswasnotsignificantasofDecember31,2013.
Theneteffectofinterestrateswapagreementswastoincreasenetinterestincomeby$41millionin
2013,$36millionin2012and$38millionin2011.Theaveragenotionalamountsofinterestrateswap

agreementsimpactingnetinterestincomethatwereenteredintoforinterestrateriskmanagementpurposes

were$1.2billionin2013and$900millionineachof2012and2011.
Informationaboutinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintoforinterestrateriskmanagement
purposessummarizedbytypeoffinancialinstrumenttheswapagreementswereintendedtohedgefollows:
NotionalAmountAverageMaturityWeighted-AverageRateEstimatedFair
ValueGain
FixedVariable(Inthousands)(Inyears)(Inthousands)
December31,2013
Fairvaluehedges:

Fixedratelong-termborrowings(a)
............$1,400,0003.74.42%1.20%$102,875
December31,2012
Fairvaluehedges:

Fixedratelong-termborrowings(a)
............$
900,0004.46.07%1.85%$143,179
(a)Underthetermsoftheseagreements,theCompanyreceivessettlementamountsatafixedrateandpaysata
variablerate.
Thenotionalamountofinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintoforriskmanagementpurposes
thatwereoutstandingatDecember31,2013matureasfollows:
(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2016.......................................................................$
500,0002017.......................................................................400,0002018.......................................................................500,000$1,400,000TheCompanyutilizescommitmentstosellresidentialandcommercialrealestateloanstohedgethe
exposuretochangesinthefairvalueofrealestateloansheldforsale.Suchcommitmentshavegenerally

beendesignatedasfairvaluehedges.TheCompanyalsoutilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloansto

offsettheexposuretochangesinfairvalueofcertaincommitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsale.
Derivativefinancialinstrumentsusedfortradingpurposesincludedinterestratecontracts,foreign
exchangeandotheroptioncontracts,foreignexchangeforwardandspotcontracts,andfinancialfutures.

Interestratecontractsenteredintofortradingpurposeshadnotionalvaluesof$17.4billionand

$15.5billionatDecember31,2013and2012,respectively.Thenotionalamountsofforeigncurrencyand

otheroptionandfuturescontractsenteredintofortradingpurposesaggregated$1.4billionand

$869millionatDecember31,2013and2012,respectively.
150InformationaboutthefairvaluesofderivativeinstrumentsintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalance
sheetandconsolidatedstatementofincomefollows:
AssetDerivatives
FairValue
December31
LiabilityDerivatives
FairValue
December31
2013201220132012(Inthousands)
Derivativesdesignatedandqualifyingashedginginstruments
Fairvaluehedges:

Interestrateswapagreements(a)
............................$102,875$143,179$Š$Š
Commitmentstosellrealestateloans(a)
......................6,9571,1144873,825
109,832144,2934873,825
Derivativesnotdesignatedandqualifyingashedginginstruments
Mortgage-relatedcommitmentstooriginaterealestateloansfor
sale(a)................................................7,61648,0563,675197
Commitmentstosellrealestateloans(a)
......................6,1201,9822306,570
Trading:Interestratecontracts(b)
.................................274,864399,963234,455365,616
Foreignexchangeandotheroptionandfuturescontracts(b)
....15,8318,72515,3428,658
304,431458,726253,702381,041
Totalderivatives
..........................................$414,263$603,019$254,189$384,866
(a)Assetderivativesarereportedinotherassetsandliabilityderivativesarereportedinotherliabilities.
(b)Assetderivativesarereportedintradingaccountassetsandliabilityderivativesarereportedinotherliabilities.
AmountofUnrealizedGain(Loss)Recognized
YearEnded
December31,2013
YearEnded
December31,2012
YearEnded
December31,2011
DerivativeHedgedItem
DerivativeHedgedItem
DerivativeHedgedItem
(Inthousands)
Derivativesinfairvaluehedging
relationshipsInterestrateswapagreements:

Fixedratelong-term
borrowings(a).............$(40,304)$38,986$(4,123)$3,724$50,665$(47,916)
Derivativesnotdesignatedas
hedginginstruments
Trading:
Interestratecontracts(b)
......$
9,824$8,004$6,130
Foreignexchangeandother
optionandfutures

contracts(b)...............(3,369)(3,970)(2,649)
Total.......................$
6,455$4,034$3,481
(a)Reportedasotherrevenuesfromoperations.
(b)Reportedastradingaccountandforeignexchangegains.
Inaddition,theCompanyalsohascommitmentstosellandcommitmentstooriginateresidential
andcommercialrealestateloansthatareconsideredderivatives.TheCompanydesignatescertainofthe

commitmentstosellrealestateloansasfairvaluehedgesofrealestateloansheldforsale.TheCompanyalso

utilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloanstooffsettheexposuretochangesinthefairvalueofcertain
151commitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsale.Asaresultoftheseactivities,netunrealizedpre-taxgains
relatedtohedgedloansheldforsale,commitmentstooriginateloansforsaleandcommitmentstosellloans

wereapproximately$23millionand$89millionatDecember31,2013and2012,respectively.Changesin

unrealizedgainsandlossesareincludedinmortgagebankingrevenuesand,ingeneral,arerealizedin

subsequentperiodsastherelatedloansaresoldandcommitmentssatisfied.
TheCompanydoesnotoffsetderivativeassetandliabilitypositionsinitsconsolidatedfinancial
statements.TheCompany™sexposuretocreditriskbyenteringintoderivativecontractsismitigatedthrough

masternettingagreementsandcollateralpostingrequirements.Masternettingagreementscoveringinterest

rateandforeignexchangecontractswiththesamepartyincludearighttoset-offthatbecomesenforceable

intheeventofdefault,earlyterminationorunderotherspecificconditions.
Theaggregatefairvalueofderivativefinancialinstrumentsinaliabilityposition,whicharesubjectto
enforceablemasternettingarrangements,was$194millionand$374millionatDecember31,2013and

2012,respectively.Afterconsiderationofsuchnettingarrangements,thenetliabilitypositionswith

counterpartiesaggregated$107millionand$281millionatDecember31,2013and2012,respectively.The

Companywasrequiredtopostcollateralrelatingtothosepositionsof$95millionand$266millionat

December31,2013and2012,respectively.CertainoftheCompany™sderivativefinancialinstruments

containprovisionsthatrequiretheCompanytomaintainspecificcreditratingsfromcreditratingagencies

toavoidhighercollateralpostingrequirements.IftheCompany™sdebtratingweretofallbelowspecified

ratings,thecounterpartiestothederivativefinancialinstrumentscoulddemandimmediateincremental

collateralizationonthoseinstrumentsinanetliabilityposition.Theaggregatefairvalueofallderivative

financialinstrumentswithsuchcreditrisk-relatedcontingentfeaturesinanetliabilitypositionon

December31,2013was$34million,forwhichtheCompanyhadpostedcollateralof$23millioninthe

normalcourseofbusiness.Ifthecreditrisk-relatedcontingentfeatureshadbeentriggeredonDecember31,

2013,themaximumamountofadditionalcollateraltheCompanywouldhavebeenrequiredtopostwith

counterpartieswas$11million.
Theaggregatefairvalueofderivativefinancialinstrumentsinanassetposition,whicharesubjectto
enforceablemasternettingarrangements,was$183millionand$164millionatDecember31,2013and

2012,respectively.Afterconsiderationofsuchnettingarrangements,thenetassetpositionswith

counterpartiesaggregated$95millionand$71millionatDecember31,2013and2012,respectively.

Counterpartiespostedcollateralrelatingtothosepositionsof$93millionand$69millionatDecember31,

2013and2012,respectively.Tradingaccountinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintowithcustomersare

subjecttotheCompany™screditriskstandardsandoftencontaincollateralprovisions.
19.Variableinterestentitiesandassetsecuritizations
During2013,theCompanysecuritizedapproximately$3.0b
illionofone-to-fourfamilyresidentialmortgage
loansinguaranteedmortgagesecuritizationswithGinnieMae.Approximately$1.3billionofsuchloanswere

formerlyheldintheCompany™sloanportfolio,whereastheremainingloanswerenewlyoriginated.The

Companyrecognizedpre-taxgainsof$42millionrelatedtoloanspreviouslyheldinportfolio,whichhave

beenrecordedinﬁotherrevenuesfromoperations,ﬂandpre-taxgainsof$28milliononnewlyoriginated

loans,whichhavebeenreflectedinﬁmortgagebankingrev
enues.ﬂAsaresultofthesecuritizationstructure,the
Companydoesnothaveeffectivecontrolovertheunderlyingloansandexpectsnomaterialcredit-related

lossesontheretainedsecuritiesasaresultoftheguaranteesbyGinnieMae.Additionally,in2013theCompany

securitizedandsoldapproximately$1.4billionofauto
mobileloansthathadbeenheldinitsloanportfolio.
TheCompanyrecognizedagainof$21millionrelatedtothesale,whichhasbeenrecordedinﬁotherrevenues

fromoperations.ﬂTheCompanycontinuestoservicethe
automobileloans,buthasnootherfinancialinterest
inthesecuritizationtrustthattheloansweresoldinto.TheCompanysecuritizedloanstoimproveits

regulatorycapitalratiosandstrengthenitsliquidityandriskprofileasaresultofchangingregulatory

requirements.InaccordancewithGAAP,theCompanydeterminedthatitwastheprimarybeneficiaryofa
residentialmortgageloansecuritizationtrustconsideringitsroleasserviceranditsretainedsubordinated

interestsinthetrust.Asaresult,theCompanyhasincludedtheone-to-fourfamilyresidentialmortgage

loansthatwereincludedinthetrustinitsconsolidatedfinancialstatements.AtDecember31,2013and

2012,thecarryingvaluesoftheloansinthesecuritizationtrustwere$121millionand$151million,

respectively.Theoutstandingprincipalamountofmortgage-backedsecuritiesissuedbythequalifiedspecial

purposetrustthatwasheldbypartiesunrelatedtoM&TatDecember31,2013and2012was$18million

and$23million,respectively.Becausethetransactionwasnon-recourse,theCompany™smaximum
152exposuretolossasaresultofitsassociationwiththetrustatDecember31,2013islimitedtorealizingthe
carryingvalueoftheloanslesstheamountofthemortgage-backedsecuritiesheldbythirdparties.
Asdescribedinnote9,M&Thasissuedjuniorsubordinateddebenturespayabletovarioustruststhat
haveissuedCapitalSecurities.M&Townsthecommonsecuritiesofthosetrustentities.TheCompanyisnot

consideredtobetheprimarybeneficiaryofthoseentitiesand,accordingly,thetrustsarenotincludedinthe

Company™sconsolidatedfinancialstatements.AtDecember31,2013and2012,theCompanyincludedthe

JuniorSubordinatedDebenturesasﬁlong-termborrowingsﬂinitsconsolidatedbalancesheet.TheCompany

hasrecognized$34millioninotherassetsforitsﬁinvestmentﬂinthecommonsecuritiesofthetruststhat

willbeconcomitantlyrepaidtoM&TbytherespectivetrustfromtheproceedsofM&T™srepaymentofthe

juniorsubordinateddebenturesassociatedwithpreferredcapitalsecuritiesdescribedinnote9.
TheCompanyhasinvestedasalimitedpartnerinvariouspartnershipsthatcollectivelyhadtotal
assetsofapproximately$1.3billionatDecember31,2013and$1.5billionatDecember31,2012.Those

partnershipsgenerallyconstructoracquirepropertiesforwhichtheinvestingpartnersareeligibletoreceive

certainfederalincometaxcreditsinaccordancewithgovernmentguidelines.Suchinvestmentsmayalso

providetaxdeductiblelossestothepartners.ThepartnershipinvestmentsalsoassisttheCompanyin

achievingitscommunityreinvestmentinitiatives.Asalimitedpartner,thereisnorecoursetotheCompany

bycreditorsofthepartnerships.However,thetaxcreditsthatresultfromtheCompany™sinvestmentsin

suchpartnershipsaregenerallysubjecttorecaptureshouldapartnershipfailtocomplywiththerespective

governmentregulations.TheCompany™smaximumexposuretolossofitsinvestmentsinsuchpartnerships

was$236million,including$45millionofunfundedcommitments,atDecember31,2013and$270million,

including$71millionofunfundedcommitments,atDecember31,2012.TheCompanyhasnotprovided

financialorothersupporttothepartnershipsthatwasnotcontractuallyrequired.Managementcurrently

estimatesthatnomateriallossesareprobableasaresultoftheCompany™sinvolvementwithsuchentities.

TheCompany,initspositionaslimitedpartner,doesnotdirecttheactivitiesthatmostsignificantlyimpact

theeconomicperformanceofthepartnershipsand,therefore,inaccordancewiththeaccountingprovisions

forvariableinterestentities,thepartnershipentitiesarenotincludedintheCompany™sconsolidated

financialstatements.
20.Fairvaluemeasurements
GAAPpermitsanentitytochoosetomeasureeligiblefinancialinstrumentsandotheritemsatfairvalue.

TheCompanyhasnotmadeanyfairvalueelectionsatDecember31,2013.
PursuanttoGAAP,fairvalueisdefinedasthepricethatwouldbereceivedtosellanassetorpaidto
transferaliabilityinanorderlytransactionbetweenmarketparticipantsatthemeasurementdate.Athree-

levelhierarchyexistsinGAAPforfairvaluemeasurementsbasedupontheinputstothevaluationofan

assetorliability.
†Level1ŠValuationisbasedonquotedpricesinactivemarketsforidenticalassetsandliabilities.

†Level2ŠValuationisdeterminedfromquotedpricesforsimilarassetsorliabilitiesinactive
markets,quotedpricesforidenticalorsimilarinstrumentsinmarketsthatarenotactiveorby

model-basedtechniquesinwhichallsignificantinputsareobservableinthemarket.
†Level3ŠValuationisderivedfrommodel-basedandothertechniquesinwhichatleastone
significantinputisunobservableandwhichmaybebasedontheCompany™sownestimatesabout

theassumptionsthatmarketparticipantswouldusetovaluetheassetorliability.
Whenavailable,theCompanyattemptstousequotedmarketpricesinactivemarketstodetermine
fairvalueandclassifiessuchitemsasLevel1orLevel2.Ifquotedmarketpricesinactivemarketsarenot

available,fairvalueisoftendeterminedusingmodel-basedtechniquesincorporatingvariousassumptions

includinginterestrates,prepaymentspeedsandcreditlosses.Assetsandliabilitiesvaluedusingmodel-based

techniquesareclassifiedaseitherLevel2orLevel3,dependingonthelowestlevelclassificationofaninput

thatisconsideredsignificanttotheoverallvaluation.Thefollowingisadescriptionofthevaluation

methodologiesusedfortheCompany™sassetsandliabilitiesthataremeasuredonarecurringbasisat

estimatedfairvalue.
Tradingaccountassetsandliabilities
Tradingaccountassetsandliabilitiesconsistprimarilyofinterestrateswapagreementsandforeign

exchangecontractswithcustomerswhorequiresuchserviceswithoffsettingpositionswiththirdpartiesto

minimizetheCompany™sriskwithrespecttosuchtransactions.TheCompanygenerallydeterminesthefair

valueofitsderivativetradingaccountassetsandliabilitiesusingexternallydevelopedpricingmodelsbased
153onmarketobservableinputsandthereforeclassifiessuchvaluationsasLevel2.Mutualfundsheldin
connectionwithdeferredcompensationarrangementshavebeenclassifiedasLevel1valuations.Valuations

ofinvestmentsinmunicipalandotherbondscangenerallybeobtainedthroughreferencetoquotedprices

inlessactivemarketsforthesameorsimilarsecuritiesorthroughmodel-basedtechniquesinwhichall

significantinputsareobservableand,therefore,suchvaluationshavebeenclassifiedasLevel2.
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale
ThemajorityoftheCompany™savailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritieshavebeenvaluedbyreferenceto

pricesforsimilarsecuritiesorthroughmodel-basedtechniquesinwhichallsignificantinputsareobservable

and,therefore,suchvaluationshavebeenclassifiedasLevel2.Certaininvestmentsinmutualfundsand

equitysecuritiesareactivelytradedand,therefore,havebeenclassifiedasLevel1valuations.
Asdiscussedinnote3,theCompanysoldsubstantiallyallofitsprivatelyissuedmortgage-backed
securitiesclassifiedasavailableforsaleduringthesecondquarterof2013.Inpriorperiods,theCompany

generallyusedmodel-basedtechniquestovaluesuchsecuritiesbecausetheCompanywassignificantly

restrictedinthelevelofmarketobservableassumptionsthatcouldbereliedupon.Specifically,market

assumptionsregardingcreditadjustedcashflowsandliquidityinfluencesondiscountratesweredifficultto

observeattheindividualbondlevel.Becauseoftheinactivityinthemarketsandthelackofobservable

valuationinputs,theCompanyclassifiedthevaluationofprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesas

Level3.
TheCompanysupplementeditsdeterminationoffairvalueformanyofitsprivatelyissued
mortgage-backedsecuritiesbyobtainingpricingindicationsfromtwoindependentsourcesatDecember31,

2012.However,theCompanycouldnotreadilyascertainthatthebasisofsuchvaluationscouldbeascribed

toorderlyandobservabletradesinthemarketforprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities.Asaresult,

theCompanyalsoperformedinternalmodelingtoestimatethecashflowsandfairvalueofprivatelyissued

mortgage-backedsecuritieswithanamortizedcostbasisof$1.1billionatDecember31,2012.The

Company™sinternalmodelingtechniquesincludeddiscountingestimatedbond-specificcashflowsusing

assumptionsaboutcashflowsassociatedwithloansunderlyingeachofthebonds,includingestimatesabout

thetimingandamountofcreditlossesandprepayments.Inestimatingthosecashflows,theCompanyused

assumptionsastofuturedelinquency,defaults,homepriceappreciationordepreciationandlossrates.To

determinethepointwithintherangeofpotentialvaluesthatwasmostrepresentativeoffairvalueunder

currentmarketconditionsforeachofthebonds,theCompanyaveragedtheinternalmodelvaluationsand

theindicationsobtainedfromthetwoindependentpricingsources,suchthattheweighted-averagereliance

oninternalmodelpricingforthebondsmodeledwas33%witha67%averageweightingplacedonthe

valuesprovidedbytheindependentsources.SignificantunobservableinputsusedintheCompany™s

modelingoffairvalueformortgage-backedsecuritiesareincludedintheaccompanyingtableofsignificant

unobservableinputstoLevel3measurements.
Includedincollateralizeddebtobligationsaresecuritiesbackedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedby
financialinstitutionsandotherentities.TheCompanycouldnotobtainpricingindicationsformanyof

thesesecuritiesfromitstwoprimaryindependentpricingsources.TheCompany,therefore,performed

internalmodelingtoestimatethecashflowsandfairvalueofitsportfolioofsecuritiesbackedbytrust

preferredsecuritiesatDecember31,2013and2012.Themodelingtechniquesincludedestimatingcash

flowsusingbond-specificassumptionsaboutfuturecollateraldefaultsandrelatedlossseverities.The

resultingcashflowswerethendiscountedbyreferencetomarketyieldsobservedinthesingle-nametrust

preferredsecuritiesmarket.Indeterminingamarketyieldapplicabletotheestimatedcashflows,amargin

overLIBOR,rangingfrom5%to11%withaweighted-averageof8%wasused.Significantunobservable

inputsusedinthedeterminationofestimatedfairvalueofcollateralizeddebtobligationsareincludedinthe

accompanyingtableofsignificantunobservableinputstoLevel3measurements.AtDecember31,2013,the

totalamortizedcostandfairvalueofsecuritiesbackedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancial

institutionsandotherentitieswere$42millionand$63million,respectively,andatDecember31,2012

were$43millionand$62million,respectively.Privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesandsecurities

backedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutionsandotherentitiesconstitutedallofthe

available-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesclassifiedasLevel3valuations.
TheCompanyensuresanappropriatecontrolframeworkisinplaceoverthevaluationprocessesand
techniquesusedforLevel3fairvaluemeasurements.Internalpricingmodelsusedforsignificantvaluation

measurementshavegenerallybeensubjectedtovalidationproceduresincludingtestingofmathematical

constructs,reviewofvaluationmethodologyandsignificantassumptionsused.
154Realestateloansheldforsale
TheCompanyutilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloanstohedgetheexposuretochangesinfairvalueof

realestateloansheldforsale.Thecarryingvalueofhedgedrealestateloansheldforsaleincludeschangesin

estimatedfairvalueduringthehedgeperiod.Typically,theCompanyattemptstohedgerealestateloans

heldforsalefromthedateofclosethroughthesaledate.Thefairvalueofhedgedrealestateloansheldfor

saleisgenerallycalculatedbyreferencetoquotedpricesinsecondarymarketsforcommitmentstosellreal

estateloanswithsimilarcharacteristicsand,accordingly,suchloanshavebeenclassifiedasaLevel2

valuation.Commitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsaleandcommitmentstosellrealestateloans
TheCompanyentersintovariouscommitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsaleandcommitmentsto

sellrealestateloans.Suchcommitmentsareconsideredtobederivativefinancialinstrumentsand,therefore,

arecarriedatestimatedfairvalueontheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Theestimatedfairvaluesofsuch

commitmentsweregenerallycalculatedbyreferencetoquotedpricesinsecondarymarketsfor

commitmentstosellrealestateloanstocertaingovernment-sponsoredentitiesandotherparties.Thefair

valuationsofcommitmentstosellrealestateloansgenerallyresultinaLevel2classification.Theestimated

fairvalueofcommitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsaleareadjustedtoreflecttheCompany™s

anticipatedcommitmentexpirations.Theestimatedcommitmentexpirationsareconsideredsignificant

unobservableinputscontributingtotheLevel3classificationofcommitmentstooriginaterealestateloans

forsale.Significantunobservableinputsusedinthedeterminationofestimatedfairvalueofcommitments

tooriginaterealestateloansforsaleareincludedintheaccompanyingtableofsignificantunobservable

inputstoLevel3measurements.
Interestrateswapagreementsusedforinterestrateriskmanagement
TheCompanyutilizesinterestrateswapagreementsaspartofthemanagementofinterestrateriskto

modifytherepricingcharacteristicsofcertainportionsofitsportfoliosofearningassetsandinterest-bearing

liabilities.TheCompanygenerallydeterminesthefairvalueofitsinterestrateswapagreementsusing

externallydevelopedpricingmodelsbasedonmarketobservableinputsandthereforeclassifiessuch

valuationsasLevel2.TheCompanyhasconsideredcounterpartycreditriskinthevaluationofitsinterest

rateswapassetsandhasconsidereditsowncreditriskinthevaluationofitsinterestrateswapliabilities.
ThefollowingtablespresentassetsandliabilitiesatDecember31,2013and2012measuredat
estimatedfairvalueonarecurringbasis:
FairValue
Measurementsat
December31,
2013Level1(a)
Level2(a)
Level3
(Inthousands)
Tradingaccountassets
...............................$
376,13151,386324,745Š
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
....................37,776Š37,776Š
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
..........10,811Š10,811Š
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
..................4,165,086Š4,165,086Š
Privatelyissued
.................................1,850ŠŠ1,850
Collateralizeddebtobligations
.......................63,083ŠŠ63,083
Otherdebtsecurities
...............................120,085Š120,085Š
Equitysecurities
..................................133,09582,45050,645Š
4,531,78682,4504,384,40364,933
Realestateloansheldforsale
..........................468,650Š468,650Š
Otherassets(b)
.....................................123,568Š115,9527,616
Totalassets
......................................$5,500,135133,8365,293,75072,549
Tradingaccountliabilities
.............................$
249,797Š249,797Š
Otherliabilities(b)
...................................4,392Š7173,675
Totalliabilities
....................................$
254,189Š250,5143,675
155FairValue
Measurementsat
December31,
2012Level1(a)
Level2(a)
Level3
(Inthousands)
Tradingaccountassets
.............................$
488,96656,106432,860Š
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
.................39,344Š39,344Š
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
........20,901Š20,901Š
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
................3,371,041Š3,371,041Š
Privatelyissued
...............................1,023,886ŠŠ1,023,886
Collateralizeddebtobligations
.....................61,869ŠŠ61,869
Otherdebtsecurities
............................111,950Š111,950Š
Equitysecurities
................................110,44698,36412,082Š
4,739,43798,3643,555,3181,085,755
Realestateloansheldforsale
........................1,387,491Š1,387,491Š
Otherassets(b)
...................................194,331Š146,27548,056
Totalassets
....................................$6,810,225154,4705,521,9441,133,811
Tradingaccountliabilities
..........................$
374,274Š374,274Š
Otherliabilities(b)
................................10,592Š10,395197
Totalliabilities
.................................$
384,866Š384,669197
(a)TherewerenosignificanttransfersbetweenLevel1andLevel2ofthefairvaluehierarchyduringtheyearsended
December31,2013and2012.
(b)Comprisedpredominantlyofinterestrateswapagreementsusedforinterestrateriskmanagement(Level2),
commitmentstosellrealestateloans(Level2)andcommitmentstooriginaterealestateloanstobeheldforsale

(Level3).
ThechangesinLevel3assetsandliabilitiesmeasuredatestimatedfairvalueonarecurringbasis
duringtheyearendedDecember31,2013wereasfollows:
InvestmentSecuritiesAvailableforSale
PrivatelyIssued
Mortgage-backedSecuritiesCollateralizedDebtObligationsOtherAssetsand
OtherLiabilities(Inthousands)
BalanceŠJanuary1,2013
............................$1,023,886$61,869$47,859
Totalgains(losses)realized/unrealized:
Includedinearnings
...............................(56,102)(a)Š97,845(b)
Includedinothercomprehensiveincome
..............116,359(e)4,508(e)Š
Sales..............................................(978,608)ŠŠ
Settlements........................................(103,685)(3,294)Š
Transfersinand/oroutofLevel3(c)
....................ŠŠ
(141,763)(d)BalanceŠDecember31,2013
.........................$
1,850$63,083$3,941
Changesinunrealizedgainsincludedinearningsrelatedto
assetsstillheldatDecember31,2013
.................$Š$Š$
3,431(b)156ThechangesinLevel3assetsandliabilitiesmeasuredatestimatedfairvalueonarecurringbasis
duringtheyearendedDecember31,2012wereasfollows:
InvestmentSecuritiesAvailableforSale
PrivatelyIssuedMortgage-backedSecuritiesCollateralizedDebtObligationsOtherAssets
andOther
Liabilities(Inthousands)
BalanceŠJanuary1,2012
............................$1,151,285$52,500$6,923
Totalgains(losses)realized/unrealized:
Includedinearnings
...............................(42,467)(a)Š212,281(b)
Includedinothercomprehensiveincome
..............114,592(e)12,214(e)Š
Settlements........................................(199,524)(2,845)Š
Transfersinand/oroutofLevel3(c)
....................ŠŠ
(171,345)(d)BalanceŠDecember31,2012
.........................$1,023,886$61,869$47,859
Changesinunrealizedgains(losses)includedinearnings
relatedtoassetsstillheldatDecember31,2012
.........$
(42,467)(a)$Š$47,859(b)
ThechangesinLevel3assetsandliabilitiesmeasuredatestimatedfairvalueonarecurringbasis
duringtheyearendedDecember31,2011wereasfollows:
InvestmentSecuritiesAvailableforSale
PrivatelyIssuedMortgage-backedSecuritiesCollateralizedDebtObligationsOtherAssetsand
OtherLiabilities(Inthousands)
BalanceŠJanuary1,2011
............................$1,457,968$110,756$2,244
Totalgains(losses)realized/unrealized:
Includedinearnings
...............................(64,919)(a)19,231(a)67,163(b)
Includedinothercomprehensiveincome
..............6,816(e)(272)(e)Š
Purchases..........................................Š
50,790Š
Sales..............................................Š
(124,874)Š
Settlements.........................................(248,580)(3,131)Š
Transfersinand/oroutofLevel3(c)
....................ŠŠ
(62,484)(d)BalanceŠDecember31,2011
.........................$1,151,285$52,500$6,923
Changesinunrealizedgains(losses)includedinearnings
relatedtoassetsstillheldatDecember31,2011
..........$
(64,919)(a)$Š$6,902(b)
(a)Reportedasanother-than-temporaryimpairmentlossorasgain(loss)onbankinvestmentsecuritiesinthe
consolidatedstatementofincome.
(b)Reportedasmortgagebankingrevenuesintheconsolidatedstatementofincomeandincludesthefairvalueof
commitmentissuancesandexpirations.
(c)TheCompany™spolicyfortransfersbetweenfairvaluelevelsistorecognizethetransferasoftheactualdateofthe
eventorchangeincircumstancesthatcausedthetransfer.
(d)TransfersoutofLevel3consistofinterestratelockstransferredtoclosedloans.

(e)Reportedasnetunrealizedgainsoninvestmentsecuritiesintheconsolidatedstatementofcomprehensiveincome.
157TheCompanyisrequired,onanonrecurringbasis,toadjustthecarryingvalueofcertainassetsor
providevaluationallowancesrelatedtocertainassetsusingfairvaluemeasurements.Themoresignificantof

thoseassetsfollow.
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity
During2012and2011,other-than-temporarylossesof$5millionand$12million,respectively,were

recordedrelatedtocertainmortgage-backedsecurities.InaccordancewithGAAP,thecarryingvalueofsuch

securitieswasreducedtofairvalue,withestimatedcreditlossesrecognizedinearningsandanyremaining

unrealizedlossrecognizedinaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome.Thedeterminationoffairvalue

includeduseofexternalandinternalvaluationsourcesthat,asinthecaseofprivatelyissuedmortgage-

backedsecurities,wereweightedandaveragedwhenestimatingfairvalue.Duetothepresenceofsignificant

unobservableinputsthosevaluationsareclassifiedasLevel3.Theamortizedcost,fairvalueandimpacton

theCompany™sfinancialstatementsofthemodelingdescribedhereinwerenotmaterial.Nosuchother-

than-temporarylosseswererecordedin2013.
LoansLoansaregenerallynotrecordedatfairvalueonarecurringbasis.Periodically,theCompanyrecords

nonrecurringadjustmentstothecarryingvalueofloansbasedonfairvaluemeasurementsforpartial

charge-offsoftheuncollectibleportionsofthoseloans.Nonrecurringadjustmentsalsoincludecertain

impairmentamountsforcollateral-dependentloanswhenestablishingtheallowanceforcreditlosses.Such

amountsaregenerallybasedonthefairvalueoftheunderlyingcollateralsupportingtheloanand,asa

result,thecarryingvalueoftheloanlessthecalculatedvaluationamountdoesnotnecessarilyrepresentthe

fairvalueoftheloan.Realestatecollateralistypicallyvaluedusingappraisalsorotherindicationsofvalue

basedonrecentcomparablesalesofsimilarpropertiesorassumptionsgenerallyobservableinthe

marketplaceandtherelatednonrecurringfairvaluemeasurementadjustmentshavegenerallybeenclassified

asLevel2,unlesssignificantadjustmentshavebeenmadetothevaluationthatarenotreadilyobservableby

marketparticipants.Non-realestatecollateralsupportingcommercialloansgenerallyconsistsofbusiness

assetssuchasreceivables,inventoryandequipment.Fairvalueestimationsaretypicallydeterminedby

discountingrecordedvaluesofthoseassetstoreflectestimatednetrealizablevalueconsideringspecific

borrowerfactsandcircumstancesandtheexperienceofcreditpersonnelintheirdealingswithsimilar

borrowercollateralliquidations.Suchdiscountsweregenerallyintherangeof20%to90%atDecember31,

2013.Asthesediscountsarenotreadilyobservableandareconsideredsignificant,thevaluationshavebeen

classifiedasLevel3.Loanssubjecttononrecurringfairvaluemeasurementwere$222millionat

December31,2013,($173millionand$49millionofwhichwereclassifiedasLevel2andLevel3,

respectively),$335millionatDecember31,2012($207millionand$128millionofwhichwereclassifiedas

Level2andLevel3,respectively),and$419millionatDecember31,2011($262millionand$157millionof

whichwereclassifiedasLevel2andLevel3,respectively).Changesinfairvaluerecognizedforpartial

charge-offsofloansandloanimpairmentreservesonloansheldbytheCompanyattheendofeachofthose

yearsduringeachoftheyearsendedDecember31,2013,2012and2011weredecreasesof$58million,$67

millionand$158million,respectively.
Assetstakeninforeclosureofdefaultedloans
Assetstakeninforeclosureofdefaultedloansareprimarilycomprisedofcommercialandresidentialreal

propertyandaregenerallymeasuredatthelowerofcostorfairvaluelesscoststosell.Thefairvalueofthe

realpropertyisgenerallydeterminedusingappraisalsorotherindicationsofvaluebasedonrecent

comparablesalesofsimilarpropertiesorassumptionsgenerallyobservableinthemarketplace,andthe

relatednonrecurringfairvaluemeasurementadjustmentshavegenerallybeenclassifiedasLevel2.Assets

takeninforeclosureofdefaultedloanssubjecttononrecurringfairvaluemeasurementwere$29millionand

$34millionatDecember31,2013andDecember31,2012,respectively.Changesinfairvaluerecognizedfor

foreclosedassetsheldbytheCompanyatDecember31,2013,2012and2011werenotmaterialduringeach

of2013,2012and2011.
InvestmentinBayviewLendingGroupLLC
In2011,theCompanyrecognizeda$79millionother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargerelatedtoM&T™s

20%investmentinBLGandchargeditdowntoitsestimatedfairvalueatthattimeof$115million.That

impairmentchargeisincludedinﬁothercostsofoperations.ﬂIndeterminingthefairvalueofM&T™s
158investmentinBLGatDecember31,2011,theCompanyprojectednofurthercommercialmortgage
originationandsecuritizationactivitiesbyBLG.BLG,however,isentitledtoreceive,ifandwhenmade,cash

distributionsfromaffiliates,aportionofwhichiscontractuallyrequiredtobedistributedtoM&T.

Specifically,cashflowsrelatedtomortgageassetsheldbyBLGanditsaffiliateswereestimatedusingvarious

assumptionsonfuturedefaultandlossseveritiestoarriveattheexpectedamountofcashflowthatcouldbe

availablefordistribution.AsofDecember31,2011theweighted-averageassumptionsofprojecteddefault

percentageontheunderlyingmortgageloancollateralsupportingthosemortgageassetswas31%andthe

weighted-averagelossseverityassumptionwas75%.Withrespecttoprojectedvalueexpectedtobe

generatedbytheassetmanagementandservicingoperationsofBLG™saffiliates,M&Tdevelopedestimates

fromcompany-providedforecastsoffinancialresultsandthroughdiscussionswiththeirsenior

managementpertainingtolonger-termprojectionsofgrowthinassetsundermanagementandasset

servicingportfolios.M&Tconsidereddifferentscenariosofprojectedcashflowsthatcouldbegeneratedby

theassetmanagementandservicingoperationsofBLG™saffiliates.M&Tthendiscountedthevarious

projectionsusingdiscountratesthatrangedfrom8.0%to12.5%thatweredeterminedbyreferenceto

returnsrequiredbyinvestorsinsimilarbusinesses.ThedeterminationoffairvalueofM&T™s20%

investmentinBLGisconsideredaLevel3valuationduetotheunobservablenatureofkeyassumptions.

Therewasnoother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargerecognizedin2013or2012relatedtoM&T™s

investmentinBLG.
Significantunobservableinputstolevel3measurements
Thefollowingtablespresentquantitativeinformationaboutsignificantunobservableinputsusedinthefair

valuemeasurementsforLevel3assetsandliabilitiesatDecember31,2013and2012:
FairValueat
December31,
2013ValuationTechniqueUnobservableInput/AssumptionsRange(Weighted-Average)(Inthousands)
Recurringfairvalue
measurementsPrivatelyissued
mortgageŒbacked
securities..........$
1,850Twoindependent
pricingquotesŠŠ
Collateralizeddebt
obligations.........63,083DiscountedcashflowProbabilityofdefault17%-55%(39%)
Lossseverity100%
Netotherassets
(liabilities)(a).......3,941Discountedcashflow
Commitmentexpirations0%-90%(20%)
(a)OtherLevel3assets(liabilities)consistofcommitmentstooriginaterealestateloans.
FairValueat
December31,
2012ValuationTechniqueUnobservableInput/AssumptionsRange(Weighted-Average)(Inthousands)
Recurringfairvalue
measurementsPrivatelyissued
mortgageŒbacked
securities..........$1,023,886DiscountedcashflowProbabilityofdefault1%-40%(19%)
Lossseverity32%-82%(51%)
Collateralizeddebt
obligations.........61,869DiscountedcashflowProbabilityofdefault22%-69%(47%)
Lossseverity100%
Netotherassets
(liabilities)(a).......47,859Discountedcashflow
Commitmentexpirations0%-69%(20%)
(a)OtherLevel3assets(liabilities)consistofcommitmentstooriginaterealestateloans.
159Sensitivityoffairvaluemeasurementstochangesinunobservableinputs
Anincrease(decrease)intheprobabilityofdefaultandlossseverityformortgage-backedsecuritiesand

collateralizeddebtobligationsbackedbytrustpreferredsecuritieswouldgenerallyresultinalower(higher)

fairvaluemeasurement.
Anincrease(decrease)intheestimateofexpirationsforcommitmentstooriginateresidential
mortgageloanswouldgenerallyresultinalower(higher)fairvaluemeasurement.Estimatedcommitment

expirationsarederivedconsideringloantype,changesininterestratesandremaininglengthoftimeuntil

closing.Disclosuresoffairvalueoffinancialinstruments
Withtheexceptionofmarketablesecurities,certainoff-balancesheetfinancialinstrumentsandone-to-four

familyresidentialmortgageloansoriginatedforsale,theCompany™sfinancialinstrumentsarenotreadily

marketableandmarketpricesdonotexist.TheCompany,inattemptingtocomplywiththeprovisionsof

GAAPthatrequiredisclosuresoffairvalueoffinancialinstruments,hasnotattemptedtomarketits

financialinstrumentstopotentialbuyers,ifanyexist.Sincenegotiatedpricesinilliquidmarketsdepend

greatlyuponthethenpresentmotivationsofthebuyerandseller,itisreasonabletoassumethatactualsales

pricescouldvarywidelyfromanyestimateoffairvaluemadewithoutthebenefitofnegotiations.

Additionally,changesinmarketinterestratescandramaticallyimpactthevalueoffinancialinstrumentsina

shortperiodoftime.Additionalinformationabouttheassumptionsandcalculationsutilizedfollows.
160Thecarryingamountsandestimatedfairvalueforfinancialinstrumentassets(liabilities)are
presentedinthefollowingtable:
December31,2013
CarryingAmountEstimatedFairValue
Level1
Level2
Level3
(Inthousands)
Financialassets:
Cashandcashequivalents
.......$
1,672,934$1,672,934$1,596,877$76,057$Š
Interest-bearingdepositsat
banks......................1,651,1381,651,138Š1,651,138Š
Tradingaccountassets
..........376,131376,13151,386324,745Š
Investmentsecurities
...........8,796,4978,690,49482,4508,384,106223,938
Loansandleases:
Commercialloansandleases...18,705,21618,457,288ŠŠ18,457,288

Commercialrealestateloans...26,148,20826,018,195Š67,50525,950,690

Residentialrealestateloans
....8,928,2218,867,872Š5,432,2073,435,665
Consumerloans
.............10,291,51410,201,087ŠŠ10,201,087
Allowanceforcreditlosses
.....(916,676)ŠŠŠŠ
Loansandleases,net
.......63,156,48363,544,442Š5,499,71258,044,730
Accruedinterestreceivable
.......222,558222,558Š222,558Š
Financialliabilities:
Noninterest-bearingdeposits
.....$(24,661,007)$(24,661,007)Š$(24,661,007)Š
SavingsdepositsandNOW
accounts...................(38,611,021)(38,611,021)Š(38,611,021)Š
Timedeposits
.................(3,523,838)(3,542,789)Š(3,542,789)Š
DepositsatCaymanIslands
office......................(322,746)(322,746)Š(322,746)Š
Short-termborrowings
.........(260,455)(260,455)Š(260,455)Š
Long-termborrowings
..........(5,108,870)(5,244,902)Š(5,244,902)Š
Accruedinterestpayable
........(43,419)(43,419)Š(43,419)Š
Tradingaccountliabilities
.......(249,797)(249,797)Š(249,797)Š
Otherfinancialinstruments:
Commitmentstooriginatereal
estateloansforsale
...........$
3,941$3,941Š$Š$3,941
Commitmentstosellrealestate
loans......................12,36012,360Š12,360Š
Othercredit-related
commitments...............(118,886)(118,886)ŠŠ(118,886)
Interestrateswapagreementsused
forinterestraterisk

management................102,875102,875Š102,875Š
161December31,2012
CarryingAmountEstimatedFairValue
Level1
Level2
Level3
(Inthousands)
Financialassets:
Cashandcashequivalents
...........$
1,986,615$1,986,615$1,895,423$91,192$Š
Interest-bearingdepositsatbanks
.....129,945129,945Š129,945Š
Tradingaccountassets
..............488,966488,96656,106432,860Š
Investmentsecurities
...............6,074,3616,018,96898,3644,687,2111,233,393
Loansandleases:
Commercialloansandleases
.......17,776,95317,554,562ŠŠ17,554,562
Commercialrealestateloans
.......25,993,79025,858,482Š199,99725,658,485
Residentialrealestateloans
........11,240,83711,381,319Š8,100,9153,280,404
Consumerloans
.................11,559,37711,504,799ŠŠ11,504,799
Allowanceforcreditlosses
........(925,860)ŠŠŠŠ
Loansandleases,net
...........65,645,09766,299,162Š8,300,91257,998,250
Accruedinterestreceivable
..........222,897222,897Š222,897Š
Financialliabilities:
Noninterest-bearingdeposits
........$(24,240,802)$(24,240,802)Š$(24,240,802)Š
SavingsdepositsandNOWaccounts..(35,763,566)(35,763,566)Š(35,763,566)Š

Timedeposits
.....................(4,562,366)(4,584,384)Š(4,584,384)Š
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
.....(1,044,519)(1,044,519)Š(1,044,519)Š
Short-termborrowings
.............(1,074,482)(1,074,482)Š(1,074,482)Š
Long-termborrowings
.............(4,607,758)(4,768,408)Š(4,768,408)Š
Accruedinterestpayable
............(54,281)(54,281)Š(54,281)Š
Tradingaccountliabilities
...........(374,274)(374,274)Š(374,274)Š
Otherfinancialinstruments:
Commitmentstooriginaterealestate
loansforsale
...................$
47,859$47,859Š$Š$47,859
Commitmentstosellrealestate
loans..........................(7,299)(7,299)Š(7,299)Š
Othercredit-relatedcommitments
....(119,464)(119,464)ŠŠ(119,464)
Interestrateswapagreementsusedfor
interestrateriskmanagement
......143,179143,179Š143,179Š
Thefollowingassumptions,methodsandcalculationswereusedindeterminingtheestimatedfair
valueoffinancialinstrumentsnotmeasuredatfairvalueintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.
Cashandcashequivalents,interest-bearingdepositsatbanks,depositsatCaymanIslandsoffice,short-term
borrowings,accruedinterestreceivableandaccruedinterestpayable

Duetothenatureofcashandcashequivalentsandthenearmaturityofinterest-bearingdepositsatbanks,

depositsatCaymanIslandsoffice,short-termborrowings,accruedinterestreceivableandaccruedinterest

payable,theCompanyestimatedthatthecarryingamountofsuchinstrumentsapproximatedestimatedfair

value.162Investmentsecurities
Estimatedfairvaluesofinvestmentsinreadilymarketablesecuritiesweregenerallybasedonquotedmarket

prices.Investmentsecuritiesthatwerenotreadilymarketablewereassignedamountsbasedonestimates

providedbyoutsidepartiesormodelingtechniquesthatreliedupondiscountedcalculationsofprojected

cashflowsor,inthecaseofotherinvestmentsecurities,whichincludecapitalstockoftheFederalReserve

BankofNewYorkandtheFederalHomeLoanBankofNewYork,atanamountequaltothecarrying

amount.Loansandleases
Ingeneral,discountratesusedtocalculatevaluesforloanproductswerebasedontheCompany™spricingat

therespectiveperiodend.Ahigherdiscountratewasassumedwithrespecttoestimatedcashflows

associatedwithnonaccrualloans.Projectedloancashflowswereadjustedforestimatedcreditlosses.

However,suchestimatesmadebytheCompanymaynotbeindicativeofassumptionsandadjustmentsthat

apurchaseroftheCompany™sloansandleaseswouldseek.
DepositsPursuanttoGAAP,theestimatedfairvalueascribedtononinterest-bearingdeposits,savingsdepositsand

NOWaccountsmustbeestablishedatcarryingvaluebecauseofthecustomers™abilitytowithdrawfunds

immediately.Timedepositaccountsarerequiredtoberevaluedbaseduponprevailingmarketinterestrates

forsimilarmaturityinstruments.Asaresult,amountsassignedtotimedepositswerebasedondiscounted

cashflowcalculationsusingprevailingmarketinterestratesbasedontheCompany™spricingatthe

respectivedatefordepositswithcomparableremainingtermstomaturity.
TheCompanybelievesthatdepositaccountshaveavaluegreaterthanthatprescribedbyGAAP.The
Companyfeels,however,thatthevalueassociatedwiththesedepositsisgreatlyinfluencedbycharacteristics

ofthebuyer,suchastheabilitytoreducethecostsofservicingthedepositsanddepositattritionwhichoften

occursfollowinganacquisition.
Long-termborrowings
Theamountsassignedtolong-termborrowingswerebasedonquotedmarketprices,whenavailable,or

werebasedondiscountedcashflowcalculationsusingprevailingmarketinterestratesforborrowingsof

similartermsandcreditrisk.
Othercommitmentsandcontingencies
Asdescribedinnote21,inthenormalcourseofbusiness,variouscommitmentsandcontingentliabilities

areoutstanding,suchasloancommitments,creditguaranteesandlettersofcredit.TheCompany™spricing

ofsuchfinancialinstrumentsisbasedlargelyoncreditqualityandrelationship,probabilityoffundingand

otherrequirements.Loancommitmentsoftenhavefixedexpirationdatesandcontainterminationand

otherclauseswhichprovideforrelieffromfundingintheeventofsignificantdeteriorationinthecredit

qualityofthecustomer.TheratesandtermsoftheCompany™sloancommitments,creditguaranteesand

lettersofcreditarecompetitivewithotherfinancialinstitutionsoperatinginmarketsservedbythe

Company.TheCompanybelievesthatthecarryingamounts,whichareincludedinotherliabilities,are

reasonableestimatesofthefairvalueofthesefinancialinstruments.
TheCompanydoesnotbelievethattheestimatedinformationpresentedhereinisrepresentativeof
theearningspowerorvalueoftheCompany.Theprecedinganalysis,whichisinherentlylimitedin

depictingfairvalue,alsodoesnotconsideranyvalueassociatedwithexistingcustomerrelationshipsnorthe

abilityoftheCompanytocreatevaluethroughloanorigination,depositgatheringorfeegenerating

activities.Manyoftheestimatespresentedhereinarebasedupontheuseofhighlysubjectiveinformationand
assumptionsand,accordingly,theresultsmaynotbeprecise.Managementbelievesthatfairvalueestimates

maynotbecomparablebetweenfinancialinstitutionsduetothewiderangeofpermittedvaluation

techniquesandnumerousestimateswhichmustbemade.Furthermore,becausethedisclosedfairvalue

amountswereestimatedasofthebalancesheetdate,theamountsactuallyrealizedorpaiduponmaturityor

settlementofthevariousfinancialinstrumentscouldbesignificantlydifferent.
16321.Commitmentsandcontingencies
Inthenormalcourseofbusiness,variouscommitmentsandcontingentliabilitiesareoutstanding.The
followingtablepresentstheCompany™ssignificantcommitments.Certainofthesecommitmentsarenot

includedintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheet.
December31
20132012(Inthousands)
Commitmentstoextendcredit
Homeequitylinesofcredit
........................................$
6,218,823$6,282,615
Commercialrealestateloanstobesold
..............................62,386139,929
Othercommercialrealestateandconstruction
........................3,919,5453,819,342
Residentialrealestateloanstobesold
...............................469,8691,550,441
Otherresidentialrealestate
........................................384,617445,268
Commercialandother
...........................................10,419,54510,070,711
Standbylettersofcredit
.............................................3,600,5284,025,329
Commerciallettersofcredit
.........................................53,28453,201
Financialguaranteesandindemnificationcontracts
......................2,457,6332,120,361
Commitmentstosellrealestateloans
.................................854,6562,625,408
Commitmentstoextendcreditareagreementstolendtocustomers,generallyhavingfixed
expirationdatesorotherterminationclausesthatmayrequirepaymentofafee.Standbyandcommercial

lettersofcreditareconditionalcommitmentsissuedtoguaranteetheperformanceofacustomertoathird

party.Standbylettersofcreditgenerallyarecontingentuponthefailureofthecustomertoperform

accordingtothetermsoftheunderlyingcontractwiththethirdparty,whereascommerciallettersofcredit

areissuedtofacilitatecommerceandtypicallyresultinthecommitmentbeingfundedwhentheunderlying

transactionisconsummatedbetweenthecustomerandathirdparty.Thecreditriskassociatedwith

commitmentstoextendcreditandstandbyandcommerciallettersofcreditisessentiallythesameasthat

involvedwithextendingloanstocustomersandissubjecttonormalcreditpolicies.Collateralmaybe

obtainedbasedonmanagement™sassessmentofthecustomer™screditworthiness.
Financialguaranteesandindemnificationcontractsareoftentimessimilartostandbylettersofcredit
andincludemandatorypurchaseagreementsissuedtoensurethatcustomerobligationsarefulfilled,

recourseobligationsassociatedwithsoldloans,andotherguaranteesofcustomerperformanceor

compliancewithdesignatedrulesandregulations.Includedinfinancialguaranteesandindemnification

contractsareloanprincipalamountssoldwithrecourseinconjunctionwiththeCompany™sinvolvementin

theFannieMaeDUSprogram.TheCompany™smaximumcreditriskforrecourseassociatedwithloanssold

underthisprogramtotaledapproximately$2.3billionand$2.0billionatDecember31,2013and2012,

respectively.Sincemanyloancommitments,standbylettersofcredit,andguaranteesandindemnification
contractsexpirewithoutbeingfundedinwholeorinpart,thecontractamountsarenotnecessarily

indicativeoffuturecashflows.
TheCompanyutilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloanstohedgeexposuretochangesinthefair
valueofrealestateloansheldforsale.Suchcommitmentsareconsideredderivativesandalongwith

commitmentstooriginaterealestateloanstobeheldforsalearegenerallyrecordedintheconsolidated

balancesheetatestimatedfairmarketvalue.
164TheCompanyoccupiescertainbankingofficesandusescertainequipmentundernoncancellable
operatingleaseagreementsexpiringatvariousdatesoverthenext25years.Minimumleasepaymentsunder

noncancellableoperatingleasesaresummarizedinthefollowingtable:
(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2014.......................................................................$
85,9232015.......................................................................80,2372016.......................................................................66,2652017.......................................................................52,7932018.......................................................................43,593Lateryears
...................................................................135,156$463,967TheCompanyhasanagreementwiththeBaltimoreRavensoftheNationalFootballLeaguewhereby
theCompanyobtainedthenamingrightstoafootballstadiuminBaltimore,Maryland.Underthe

agreement,theCompanyisobligatedtopay$6millionperyearfrom2014through2017.
TheCompanyreinsurescreditlifeandaccidentandhealthinsurancepurchasedbyconsumerloan
customers.TheCompanyalsoentersintoreinsurancecontractswiththirdpartyinsurancecompanieswho

insureagainsttheriskofamortgageborrower™spaymentdefaultinconnectionwithcertainmortgageloans

originatedbytheCompany.Whenprovidingreinsurancecoverage,theCompanyreceivesapremiumin

exchangeforacceptingaportionoftheinsurer™sriskofloss.Theoutstandingloanprincipalbalances

reinsuredbytheCompanywereapproximately$19millionatDecember31,2013.Assetsofsubsidiaries

providingreinsurancethatareavailabletosatisfyclaimstotaledapproximately$36millionatDecember31,

2013.Theamountsnotedabovearenotnecessarilyindicativeoflosseswhichmayultimatelybeincurred.

Suchlossesareexpectedtobesubstantiallylessbecausemostloansarerepaidbyborrowersinaccordance

withtheoriginalloanterms.Managementbelievesthatanyreinsurancelossesthatmaybepayablebythe

CompanywillnotbematerialtotheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialposition.
TheCompanyiscontractuallyobligatedtorepurchasepreviouslysoldresidentialrealestateloans
thatdonotultimatelymeetinvestorsalecriteriarelatedtounderwritingproceduresorloandocumentation.

Whenrequiredtodoso,theCompanymayreimburseloanpurchasersforlossesincurredormay

repurchasecertainloans.TheCompanyreducesresidentialmortgagebankingrevenuesbyanestimatefor

lossesrelatedtoitsobligationstoloanpurchasers.Theamountofthosechargesisbasedonthevolumeof

loanssold,thelevelofreimbursementrequestsreceivedfromloanpurchasersandestimatesoflossesthat

maybeassociatedwithpreviouslysoldloans.AtDecember31,2013,managementbelievesthatanyfurther

liabilityarisingoutoftheCompany™sobligationtoloanpurchasersisnotmaterialtotheCompany™s

consolidatedfinancialposition.
M&Tanditssubsidiariesaresubjectinthenormalcourseofbusinesstovariouspendingand
threatenedlegalproceedingsinwhichclaimsformonetarydamagesareasserted.Onanon-goingbasis

management,afterconsultationwithlegalcounsel,assessestheCompany™sliabilitiesandcontingenciesin

connectionwithsuchlegalproceedings.ForthosematterswhereitisprobablethattheCompanywillincur

lossesandtheamountsofthelossescanbereasonablyestimated,theCompanyrecordsanexpenseand

correspondingliabilityinitsconsolidatedfinancialstatements.Totheextentthependingorthreatened

litigationcouldresultinexposureinexcessofthatliability,theamountofsuchexcessisnotcurrently

estimable.Althoughnotconsideredprobable,therangeofreasonablypossiblelossesforsuchmattersinthe

aggregate,beyondtheexistingrecordedliability,wasbetween$0and$50million.AlthoughtheCompany

doesnotbelievethattheoutcomeofpendinglitigationswillbematerialtotheCompany™sconsolidated

financialposition,itcannotruleoutthepossibilitythatsuchoutcomeswillbematerialtotheconsolidated

resultsofoperationsforaparticularreportingperiodinthefuture.
16522.Segmentinformation
ReportablesegmentshavebeendeterminedbasedupontheCompany™sinternalprofitabilityreporting
system,whichisorganizedbystrategicbusinessunit.Certainstrategicbusinessunitshavebeencombined

forsegmentinformationreportingpurposeswherethenatureoftheproductsandservices,thetypeof

customerandthedistributionofthoseproductsandservicesaresimilar.Thereportablesegmentsare

BusinessBanking,CommercialBanking,CommercialRealEstate,DiscretionaryPortfolio,Residential

MortgageBankingandRetailBanking.
ThefinancialinformationoftheCompany™ssegmentshasbeencompiledutilizingtheaccounting
policiesdescribedinnote1withcertainexceptions.Themoresignificantoftheseexceptionsaredescribed

herein.TheCompanyallocatesinterestincomeorinterestexpenseusingamethodologythatchargesusers

offunds(assets)interestexpenseandcreditsprovidersoffunds(liabilities)withincomebasedonthe

maturity,prepaymentand/orrepricingcharacteristicsoftheassetsandliabilities.Theneteffectofthis

allocationisrecordedintheﬁAllOtherﬂcategory.Aprovisionforcreditlossesisallocatedtosegmentsinan

amountbasedlargelyonactualnetcharge-offsincurredbythesegmentduringtheperiodplusorminusan

amountnecessarytoadjustthesegment™sallowanceforcreditlossesduetochangesinloanbalances.In

contrast,theleveloftheconsolidatedprovisionforcreditlossesisdeterminedusingthemethodologies

describedinnotes1and5.Indirectfixedandvariableexpensesincurredbycertaincentralizedsupportareas

areallocatedtosegmentsbasedonactualusage(forexample,volumemeasurements)andothercriteria.

Certaintypesofadministrativeexpensesandbankwideexpenseaccruals(includingamortizationofcore

depositandotherintangibleassetsassociatedwithacquisitionsoffinancialinstitutions)aregenerallynot

allocatedtosegments.IncometaxesareallocatedtosegmentsbasedontheCompany™smarginalstatutory

taxrateadjustedforanytax-exemptincomeornon-deductibleexpenses.Equityisallocatedtothesegments

basedonregulatorycapitalrequirementsandinproportiontoanassessmentoftheinherentrisksassociated

withthebusinessofthesegment(includinginterest,creditandoperatingrisk).
Themanagementaccountingpoliciesandprocessesutilizedincompilingsegmentfinancial
informationarehighlysubjectiveand,unlikefinancialaccounting,arenotbasedonauthoritativeguidance

similartoGAAP.Asaresult,reportedsegmentresultsarenotnecessarilycomparablewithsimilar

informationreportedbyotherfinancialinstitutions.Furthermore,changesinmanagementstructureor

allocationmethodologiesandproceduresmayresultinchangesinreportedsegmentfinancialdata.

InformationabouttheCompany™ssegmentsispresentedintheaccompanyingtable.Incomestatement

amountsareinthousandsofdollars.Balancesheetamountsareinmillionsofdollars.
FortheYearsEndedDecember31,2013,2012and2011
BusinessBanking
CommercialBanking
CommercialRealEstate
DiscretionaryPortfolio
201320122011201320122011201320122011201320122011Netinterestincome(a)
...............$325,521$347,067$334,811$758,231$753,678$655,407$570,786$531,398$467,683$66,157$66,303$63,030
Noninterestincome
.................102,945103,28395,429263,766253,808249,150130,895133,12099,409(2,126)(76,113)98,770
428,466450,350430,2401,021,9971,007,486904,557701,681664,518567,09264,031(9,810)161,800
Provisionforcreditlosses
.............26,45022,24545,68976,81815,78129,8237,3654,23858,47416,67044,30559,309
Amortizationofcoredepositandother
intangibleassets
..................ŠŠŠŠ
ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠ
Depreciationandotheramortization
....198122140564567553
14,29611,0049,0541,3302,0652,859
Othernoninterestexpense
............214,043179,428177,172288,842262,820248,428214,246190,879154,04230,43131,00632,262
Income(loss)beforetaxes
............187,775248,555207,239655,773728,318625,753465,774458,397345,52215,600(87,186)67,370
Incometaxexpense(benefit)
..........76,735101,48484,532264,433296,894256,311143,981149,321105,709(14,368)(54,071)7,975
Netincome(loss)
...................$111,040$147,071$122,707$391,340$431,424$369,442$321,793$309,076$239,813$29,968$(33,115)$59,395
Averagetotalassets(inmillions)
.......$
5,080$4,909$5,192$21,655$19,946$17,650$17,150$16,437$15,025$16,480$16,583$14,170
Capitalexpenditures(inmillions)
......$1$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š
166FortheYearsEndedDecember31,2013,2012and2011
ResidentialMortgage
Banking
RetailBanking
AllOther
Total201320122011201320122011201320122011201320122011Netinterestincome(a)
.......$
98,496$78,058$63,951$810,134$902,906$851,332$43,904$(80,894)$(46,458)$2,673,229$2,598,516$2,389,756
Noninterestincome
.........325,474402,211184,249373,362349,571366,042670,889501,390489,8631,865,2051,667,2701,582,912
423,970480,269248,2001,183,4961,252,4771,217,374714,793420,496443,4054,538,4344,265,7863,972,668
Provisionforcreditlosses
....(11,711)17,16936,37572,50295,345101,679(3,094)4,917(61,349)185,000204,000270,000
Amortizationofcoredeposit
andotherintangible

assets...................ŠŠ
ŠŠŠŠ46,91260,63161,61746,91260,63161,617
Depreciationandother
amortization.............48,71646,90244,34934,59932,73433,71357,12050,53645,495156,823143,930136,163
Othernoninterestexpense
....225,794195,604151,945768,644751,916744,905690,150693,046771,5342,432,1502,304,6992,280,288
Income(loss)beforetaxes
....161,171220,59415,531307,751372,482337,077(76,295)(388,634)(373,892)1,717,5491,552,5261,224,600
Incometaxexpense
(benefit)................61,77985,6712,403125,350151,616137,161(78,841)(207,887)(228,970)579,069523,028365,121
Netincome(loss)
...........$
99,392$134,923$13,128$182,401$220,866$199,916$2,546$(180,747)$(144,922)$1,138,480$1,029,498$859,479
Averagetotalassets(in
millions)................$
2,858$2,451$1,958$10,997$11,705$11,940$9,442$7,952$8,042$83,662$79,983$73,977
Capitalexpenditures(in
millions)................$Š$1$Š$40$15$25$89$76$45$130$92$70
(a)Netinterestincomeisthedifferencebetweenactualtaxable-equivalentinterestearnedonassetsandinterestpaid
onliabilitiesbyasegmentandafundingcharge(credit)basedontheCompany™sinternalfundstransferpricing

methodology.Segmentsarechargedacosttofundanyassets(e.g.loans)andarepaidafundingcreditforany

fundsprovided(e.g.deposits).Thetaxable-equivalentadjustmentaggregated$24,971,000in2013,$26,391,000

in2012and$25,876,000in2011andiseliminatedinﬁAllOtherﬂnetinterestincomeandincometaxexpense

(benefit).167TheBusinessBankingsegmentprovidesdeposit,lending,cashmanagementandotherfinancial
servicestosmallbusinessesandprofessionalsthroughtheCompany™sbankingofficenetworkandseveral

otherdeliverychannels,includingbusinessbankingcenters,telephonebanking,Internetbankingand

automatedtellermachines.TheCommercialBankingsegmentprovidesawiderangeofcreditproductsand

bankingservicestomiddle-marketandlargecommercialcustomers,mainlywithinthemarketsthe

Companyserves.Amongtheservicesprovidedbythissegmentarecommerciallendingandleasing,lettersof

credit,depositproductsandcashmanagementservices.TheCommercialRealEstatesegmentprovides

creditserviceswhicharesecuredbyvarioustypesofmultifamilyresidentialandcommercialrealestateand

depositservicestoitscustomers.Activitiesofthissegmentincludetheorigination,salesandservicingof

commercialrealestateloans.TheDiscretionaryPortfoliosegmentincludessecurities,residentialmortgage

loansandotherassets;short-termandlong-termborrowedfunds;brokeredcertificatesofdepositand

interestrateswapagreementsrelatedthereto;andCaymanIslandsbranchdeposits.Thissegmentalso

providesforeignexchangeservicestocustomers.TheResidentialMortgageBankingsegmentoriginatesand

servicesresidentialmortgageloansforconsumersandsellssubstantiallyallofthoseloansinthesecondary

markettoinvestorsortotheDiscretionaryPortfoliosegment.Thesegmentperiodicallypurchasesservicing

rightstoloansthathavebeenoriginatedbyotherentities.Residentialmortgageloansheldforsaleare

includedintheResidentialMortgageBankingsegment.TheRetailBankingsegmentoffersavarietyof

servicestoconsumersthroughseveraldeliverychannelsthatincludebankingoffices,automatedteller

machines,telephonebankingandInternetbanking.TheﬁAllOtherﬂcategoryincludesotheroperating

activitiesoftheCompanythatarenotdirectlyattributabletothereportedsegments;thedifferencebetween

theprovisionforcreditlossesandthecalculatedprovisionallocatedtothereportablesegments;goodwill

andcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsresultingfromacquisitionsoffinancialinstitutions;merger-

relatedgainsandexpensesresultingfromacquisitions;thenetimpactoftheCompany™sinternalfunds

transferpricingmethodology;eliminationsoftransactionsbetweenreportablesegments;certain

nonrecurringtransactions;theresidualeffectsofunallocatedsupportsystemsandgeneraland

administrativeexpenses;andtheimpactofinterestrateriskmanagementstrategies.Theamountof

intersegmentactivityeliminatedinarrivingatconsolidatedtotalswasincludedintheﬁAllOtherﬂcategory

asfollows:
YearEndedDecember31
201320122011(Inthousands)
Revenues...........................................$(50,128)$(71,452)$(64,239)
Expenses...........................................(16,235)(17,313)(14,146)
Incometaxes(benefit)
................................(13,791)(22,029)(20,383)
Netincome(loss)
....................................(20,102)(32,110)(29,710)
TheCompanyconductssubstantiallyallofitsoperationsintheUnitedStates.Thereareno
transactionswithasinglecustomerthatintheaggregateresultinrevenuesthatexceedtenpercentof

consolidatedtotalrevenues.
23.Regulatorymatters
PaymentofdividendsbyM&T™sbankingsubsidiariesisrestrictedbyvariouslegalandregulatory

limitations.DividendsfromanybankingsubsidiarytoM&Tarelimitedbytheamountofearningsofthe

bankingsubsidiaryinthecurrentyearandtheprecedingtwoyears.Forpurposesofthistest,at

December31,2013,approximately$1.11billionwasavailableforpaymentofdividendstoM&Tfrom

bankingsubsidiaries.Additionally,theFederalReserveBoardrequiresbankholdingcompanieswith$50

billionormoreoftotalconsolidatedassetstosubmitannualcapitalplans.Suchbankholdingcompanies

maypaydividendsandrepurchasestockonlyinaccordancewithacapitalplanwhichtheFederalReserve

Boardhasnotobjectedto.
BankingregulationsprohibitextensionsofcreditbythesubsidiarybankstoM&Tunless
appropriatelysecuredbyassets.Securitiesofaffiliatesarenoteligibleascollateralforthispurpose.
Thebanksubsidiariesarerequiredtomaintainnoninterest-earningreservesagainstcertaindeposit
liabilities.DuringthemaintenanceperiodsthatincludedDecember31,2013and2012,cashandduefrom

banksincludedadailyaverageof$595,593,000and$604,789,000,respectively,forsuchpurpose.
168Federalregulatorshaveadoptedcapitaladequacyguidelinesforbankholdingcompaniesandbanks.
Failuretomeetminimumcapitalrequirementscanresultincertainmandatory,andpossiblyadditional

discretionary,actionsbyregulatorsthat,ifundertaken,couldhaveamaterialeffectontheCompany™s

financialstatements.Underthecapitaladequacyguidelines,theso-calledﬁTier1capitalﬂandﬁTotalcapitalﬂ

asapercentageofrisk-weightedassetsandcertainoff-balancesheetfinancialinstrumentsmustbeatleast

4%and8%,respectively.Inadditiontotheserisk-basedmeasures,regulatorsalsorequirebanking

institutionsthatmeetcertainqualitativecriteriatomaintainaminimumﬁleverageﬂratioofﬁTier1capitalﬂ

toaveragetotalassets,adjustedforgoodwillandcertainotheritems,ofatleast3%tobeconsidered

adequatelycapitalized.AsofDecember31,2013,M&Tandeachofitsbankingsubsidiariesexceededall

applicablecapitaladequacyrequirements.Tobeconsideredﬁwellcapitalized,ﬂundertheregulatory

frameworkforpromptcorrectiveaction,abankinginstitutionmustmaintainTier1risk-basedcapital,total

risk-basedcapitalandleverageratiosofatleast6%,10%and5%,respectively.
ThecapitalratiosandamountsoftheCompanyanditsbankingsubsidiariesasofDecember31,2013
and2012arepresentedbelow:
M&T(Consolidated)M&TBank
WilmingtonTrust,N.A.
(Dollarsinthousands)
December31,2013:
Tier1capital
Amount.............................................$
8,792,035$7,341,506$420,330
Ratio(a).............................................12.00%10.08%73.79%
Minimumrequiredamount(b)
...........................2,930,9252,914,24622,786
Totalcapital
Amount.............................................11,045,5899,445,770424,975
Ratio(a).............................................15.07%12.96%74.60%
Minimumrequiredamount(b)
...........................5,861,8495,828,49145,573
LeverageAmount.............................................8,792,0357,341,506420,330
Ratio(c).............................................10.78%9.09%19.80%
Minimumrequiredamount(b)
...........................2,446,4762,422,09663,678
December31,2012:

Tier1capital
Amount.............................................$
7,810,196$6,767,774$405,469
Ratio(a).............................................10.22%8.92%61.02%
Minimumrequiredamount(b)
...........................3,057,0933,034,18426,580
Totalcapital
Amount.............................................10,230,3028,981,931410,873
Ratio(a).............................................13.39%11.84%61.83%
Minimumrequiredamount(b)
...........................6,114,1866,068,36753,160
LeverageAmount.............................................7,810,1966,767,774405,469
Ratio(c).............................................10.07%8.84%21.62%
Minimumrequiredamount(b)
...........................2,327,1222,297,90256,275
(a)Theratioofcapitaltorisk-weightedassets,asdefinedbyregulation.
(b)Minimumamountofcapitaltobeconsideredadequatelycapitalized,asdefinedbyregulation.

(c)Theratioofcapitaltoaverageassets,asdefinedbyregulation.
16924.RelationshipwithBayviewLendingGroupLLCandBayviewFinancialHoldings,L.P.
M&Tholdsa20%interestinBLG,aprivately-heldcommercialmortgagecompany.Thecarryingvalueof
thatinvestmentwas$74millionatDecember31,2013.M&TrecognizesincomeorlossfromBLGusingthe

equitymethodofaccounting.In2011,theCompanyrecognizeda$79millionother-than-temporary

impairmentchargerelatedtoitsinvestmentinBLGthatisincludedinﬁothercostsofoperations.ﬂFurther

informationconcerningtheother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargeisprovidedinnote20.
BayviewFinancialHoldings,L.P.(togetherwithitsaffiliates,ﬁBayviewFinancialﬂ),aprivately-held
specialtymortgagefinancecompany,isBLG™smajorityinvestor.Inadditiontotheircommoninvestmentin

BLG,theCompanyandBayviewFinancialconductotherbusinessactivitieswitheachother.TheCompany

hasobtainedloanservicingrightsformortgageloansfromBLGandBayviewFinancialhavingoutstanding

principalbalancesof$5.5billionand$6.5billionatDecember31,2013and2012,respectively.Revenues

fromthoseservicingrightswere$31million,$35millionand$41millionduring2013,2012and2011,

respectively.TheCompanysub-servicesresidentialmortgageloansforBayviewFinancialhaving

outstandingprincipalbalancestotaling$45.6billionand$11.4billionatDecember31,2013and2012,

respectively.Revenuesearnedforsub-servicingloansforBayviewFinancialwere$33millionin2013,$10

millionin2012and$477thousandin2011.Inaddition,theCompanyheld$2millionand$11millionat

December31,2013and2012,respectively,ofmortgage-backedsecuritiesinitsavailable-for-saleinvestment

securitiesportfoliothatweresecuritizedbyBayviewFinancial.Finally,theCompanyheld$220millionand

$242millionofsimilarinvestmentsecuritiesinitsheld-to-maturityportfolioatDecember31,2013and

2012,respectively.
25.Parentcompanyfinancialstatements
CondensedBalanceSheet
December31
20132012(Inthousands)
AssetsCashinsubsidiarybank
.............................................$
10,729$4,774
Duefromconsolidatedbanksubsidiaries
Money-marketsavings
...........................................968,274714,677
Currentincometaxreceivable
.....................................1,9141,835
Other.........................................................1,894Š
Totalduefromconsolidatedbanksubsidiaries
......................972,082716,512
Investmentsinconsolidatedsubsidiaries
Banksandbankholdingcompany
..................................11,364,65710,495,557
Other.........................................................16,21216,344
Investmentsinunconsolidatedsubsidiaries(note19)
.....................33,75133,916
InvestmentinBayviewLendingGroupLLC
............................73,88393,489
Otherassets
......................................................80,09883,975
Totalassets
...................................................$12,551,412$11,444,567
LiabilitiesDuetoconsolidatedbanksubsidiaries
.................................$Š$213
Accruedexpensesandotherliabilities
.................................62,81760,619
Long-termborrowings
.............................................1,183,0631,181,142
Totalliabilities
................................................1,245,8801,241,974
Shareholders™equity
...............................................11,305,53210,202,593
Totalliabilitiesandshareholders™equity
...........................$12,551,412$11,444,567
170CondensedStatementofIncome
YearEndedDecember31
201320122011(Inthousands,exceptpershare)
IncomeDividendsfromconsolidatedbanksubsidiaries
................$
700,000$700,000$715,000
EquityinearningsofBayviewLendingGroupLLC
.............(16,126)(21,511)(24,231)
Otherincome
............................................9,9928,75567,829
Totalincome
..........................................693,866687,244758,598
ExpenseInterestonlong-termborrowings
...........................73,11582,28690,959
Otherexpense(a)
........................................15,99419,22687,368
Totalexpense
..........................................89,109101,512178,327
Incomebeforeincometaxesandequityinundistributedincomeof
subsidiaries...........................................604,757585,732580,271
Incometaxcredits
........................................35,98643,14950,460
Incomebeforeequityinundistributedincomeofsubsidiaries
.......640,743628,881630,731
Equityinundistributedincomeofsubsidiaries
Netincomeofsubsidiaries
.................................1,197,7371,100,617943,748
Less:dividendsreceived
...................................(700,000)(700,000)(715,000)
Equityinundistributedincomeofsubsidiaries
.................497,737400,617228,748
Netincome
..............................................$1,138,480$1,029,498$859,479
Netincomepercommonshare
Basic.................................................$8.26$
7.57$6.37
Diluted...............................................8.20
7.546.35
(a)In2011includes$79millionwrite-downofInvestmentinBayviewLendingGroupLLC.
171CondensedStatementofCashFlows
YearEndedDecember31
201320122011(Inthousands)
Cashflowsfromoperatingactivities
Netincome
.............................................$
1,138,480$1,029,498$859,479
Adjustmentstoreconcilenetincometonetcashprovidedby
operatingactivities
Equityinundistributedincomeofsubsidiaries
...............(
497,737)(400,617)(228,748)
Provisionfordeferredincometaxes
........................1,5351,724(10,349)
Assetwrite-downs
......................................ŠŠ
79,012Netchangeinaccruedincomeandexpense
.................31,9796,79844,336
Netcashprovidedbyoperatingactivities
...................674,257637,403743,730
Cashflowsfrominvestingactivities
Proceedsfromsalesofinvestmentsecurities
...................Š411
1,987Proceedsfrommaturitiesofinvestmentsecurities
..............ŠŠ
4,400Investmentinsubsidiary
...................................(140,000)ŠŠ
PurchaseofWilmingtonTrustCorporationpreferredstock
......ŠŠ
(330,000)Other,net
...............................................3,2953242,833
Netcashprovided(used)byinvestingactivities
............(136,705)735(320,780)
Cashflowsfromfinancingactivities
Paymentsonlong-termborrowings
..........................Š
(300,000)Š
DividendspaidŠcommon
................................(365,349)(357,717)(350,129)
DividendspaidŠpreferred
................................(53,450)(53,450)(48,203)
Proceedsfromissuanceofpreferredstock
.....................ŠŠ
495,000Redemptionofpreferredstock
..............................ŠŠ
(370,000)Other,net
...............................................140,799143,35216,386
Netcashusedbyfinancingactivities
.....................(278,000)(567,815)(256,946)
Netincreaseincashandcashequivalents
.....................259,55270,323166,004
Cashandcashequivalentsatbeginningofyear
.................719,451649,128483,124
Cashandcashequivalentsatendofyear
......................$
979,003$719,451$649,128
Supplementaldisclosureofcashflowinformation
Interestreceivedduringtheyear
............................$
2,224$1,970$2,082
Interestpaidduringtheyear
................................71,09080,09087,184
Incometaxesreceivedduringtheyear
........................45,23721,87857,964
172Item9.
ChangesinandDisagreementswithAccountantsonAccountingandFinancialDisclosure.
None.
Item9A.
ControlsandProcedures.
(a)Evaluationofdisclosurecontrolsandprocedures.Basedupontheirevaluationoftheeffectiveness
ofM&T™sdisclosurecontrolsandprocedures(asdefinedinExchangeActrules13a-15(e)and15d-15(e)),

RobertG.Wilmers,ChairmanoftheBoardandChiefExecutiveOfficer,andRenéF.Jones,ExecutiveVice

PresidentandChiefFinancialOfficer,concludedthatM&T™sdisclosurecontrolsandprocedureswere

effectiveasofDecember31,2013.
(b)Management™sannualreportoninternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.Includedunderthe
headingﬁReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReportingﬂatItem8ofthisAnnualReporton

Form10-K.
(c)Attestationreportoftheregisteredpublicaccountingfirm.IncludedundertheheadingﬁReport
ofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirmﬂatItem8ofthisAnnualReportonForm10-K.
(d)Changesininternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.M&Tregularlyassessestheadequacyofits
internalcontroloverfinancialreportingandenhancesitscontrolsinresponsetointernalcontrol

assessmentsandinternalandexternalauditandregulatoryrecommendations.Nochangesininternal

controloverfinancialreportinghavebeenidentifiedinconnectionwiththeevaluationofdisclosure

controlsandproceduresduringthequarterendedDecember31,2013thathavemateriallyaffected,orare

reasonablylikelytomateriallyaffect,M&T™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.
Item9B.
OtherInformation.
None.PARTIII
Item10.
Directors,ExecutiveOfficersandCorporateGovernance.
TheidentificationoftheRegistrant™sdirectorsisincorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁNOMINEES
FORDIRECTORﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2014AnnualMeetingof

Shareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch6,2014.
TheidentificationoftheRegistrant™sexecutiveofficersispresentedunderthecaptionﬁExecutive
OfficersoftheRegistrantﬂcontainedinPartIofthisAnnualReportonForm10-K.
DisclosureofcompliancewithSection16(a)oftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,asamended,by
theRegistrant™sdirectorsandexecutiveofficers,andpersonswhoarethebeneficialownersofmorethan

10%oftheRegistrant™scommonstock,isincorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁSection16(a)Beneficial

OwnershipReportingComplianceﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2014

AnnualMeetingofShareholderswhichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononor

aboutMarch6,2014.
TheotherinformationrequiredbyItem10isincorporatedbyreferencetothecaptions
ﬁCORPORATEGOVERNANCEOFM&TBANKCORPORATION,ﬂﬁBOARDOFDIRECTORS,

COMMITTEESOFTHEBOARDANDATTENDANCEﬂandﬁCODESOFETHICSﬂcontainedinthe

Registrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2014AnnualMeetingofShareholders,whichwillbefiledwith

theSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch6,2014.
Item11.
ExecutiveCompensation.
IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁCOMPENSATIONOFEXECUTIVEOFFICERSAND
DIRECTORSﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2014AnnualMeetingof

Shareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch6,2014.
173Item12.
SecurityOwnershipofCertainBeneficialOwnersandManagementandRelatedStockholder
Matters.IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionsﬁPRINCIPALBENEFICIALOWNERSOFSHARESﬂandﬁSTOCK
OWNERSHIPBYDIRECTORSANDEXECUTIVEOFFICERSﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitive

ProxyStatementforits2014AnnualMeetingofShareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesand

ExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch6,2014.
TheinformationrequiredbythisitemconcerningEquityCompensationPlaninformationis
incorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁCOMPENSATIONOFEXECUTIVEOFFICERSAND

DIRECTORSﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2014AnnualMeetingof

Shareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch6,2014.
Item13.
CertainRelationshipsandRelatedTransactions,andDirectorIndependence.
IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionsﬁTRANSACTIONSWITHDIRECTORSANDEXECUTIVE
OFFICERSﬂandﬁBOARDOFDIRECTORS,COMMITTEESOFTHEBOARDANDATTENDANCEﬂ

containedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2014AnnualMeetingofShareholders,which

willbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch6,2014.
Item14.
PrincipalAccountantFeesandServices.
IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁPROPOSALTORATIFYTHEAPPOINTMENTOF
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERSLLPASTHEINDEPENDENTREGISTEREDPUBLICACCOUNTING

FIRMOFM&TBANKCORPORATIONﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits

2014AnnualMeetingofShareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissionon

oraboutMarch6,2014.
PARTIV
Item15.
ExhibitsandFinancialStatementSchedules.
(a)FinancialstatementsandfinancialstatementschedulesfiledaspartofthisAnnualReporton
Form10-K.SeePartII,Item8.ﬁFinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData.ﬂFinancialstatement

schedulesarenotrequiredorareinapplicable,andthereforehavebeenomitted.
(b)ExhibitsrequiredbyItem601ofRegulationS-K.TheexhibitslistedontheExhibitIndexofthis
AnnualReportonForm10-Khavebeenpreviouslyfiled,arefiledherewithorareincorporatedhereinby

referencetootherfilings.
(c)Additionalfinancialstatementschedules.None.
174SignaturesPursuanttotherequirementsofSection13or15(d)oftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,theRegistrant
hasdulycausedthisreporttobesignedonitsbehalfbytheundersigned,thereuntodulyauthorized,onthe

21stdayofFebruary,2014.
M&TBANKCORPORATION
By:/S/ROBERTG.W
ILMERSRobertG.Wilmers
ChairmanoftheBoardand
ChiefExecutiveOfficer
PursuanttotherequirementsoftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,thisreporthasbeensigned
belowbythefollowingpersonsonbehalfoftheRegistrantandinthecapacitiesandonthedatesindicated.
SignatureTitleDatePrincipalExecutiveOfficer:
/s/R
OBERTG.W
ILMERSRobertG.Wilmers
ChairmanoftheBoardFebruary21,2014
andChiefExecutiveOfficer
PrincipalFinancialOfficer:
/s/R
ENÉF.J
ONESRenéF.Jones
ExecutiveVicePresidentFebruary21,2014
andChiefFinancialOfficer
PrincipalAccountingOfficer:
/s/M
ICHAELR.S
PYCHALAMichaelR.Spychala
SeniorVicePresidentandFebruary21,2014
ControllerAmajorityoftheboardofdirectors:
/s/B
RENT
D.B
AIRDBrentD.Baird
February21,2014
/s/C.A
NGELABONTEMPOC.AngelaBontempo
February21,2014
RobertT.Brady
/s/T.J
EFFERSONCUNNINGHAMIIIT.JeffersonCunninghamIII
February21,2014
/s/M
ARKJ.C
ZARNECKI
MarkJ.Czarnecki
February21,2014
/s/G
ARYN.G
EISELGaryN.Geisel
February21,2014
/s/J
OHND.H
AWKE,JR.JohnD.Hawke,Jr.
February21,2014
175/s/P
ATRICKW.E.H
ODGSONPatrickW.E.Hodgson
February21,2014
/s/R
ICHARDG.K
INGRichardG.King
February21,2014
JorgeG.Pereira
/s/M
ELINDAR.R
ICHMelindaR.Rich
February21,2014
/s/R
OBERTE.S
ADLER,JR.RobertE.Sadler,Jr.
February21,2014
/s/H
ERBERTL.W
ASHINGTONHerbertL.Washington
February21,2014
/s/R
OBERTG.W
ILMERSRobertG.Wilmers
February21,2014
176EXHIBITINDEX
2.1AgreementandPlanofMerger,datedasofAugust27,2012,byandamongM&TBank
Corporation,HudsonCityBancorp,Inc.andWilmingtonTrustCorporation.Incorporated

byreferencetoExhibit2.1totheForm8-KdatedAugust31,2012(FileNo.1-9861).
2.2AmendmentNo.1,datedasofApril13,2013,toAgreementandPlanofMerger,datedasof
August27,2012,byandamongM&TBankCorporation,HudsonCityBancorp.,Inc.and

WilmingtonTrustCorporation.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit2.1totheForm8-K

datedApril13,2013(FileNo.1-9861).
2.3AmendmentNo.2,datedasofDecember16,2013,toAgreementandPlanofMerger,dated
asofAugust27,2012,byandamongM&TBankCorporation,HudsonCityBancorp.,Inc.

andWilmingtonTrustCorporation.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit2.1totheForm

8-KdatedDecember17,2013(FileNo.1-9861).
3.1RestatedCertificateofIncorporationofM&TBankCorporationdatedNovember18,2010.
IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit3.1totheForm8-KdatedNovember19,2010(File

No.1-9861).
3.2AmendedandRestatedBylawsofM&TBankCorporation,effectiveNovember16,2010.
IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit3.2totheForm8-KdatedNovember19,2010(File

No.1-9861).
3.3CertificateofAmendmenttoCertificateofIncorporationwithrespecttoPerpetual6.875%
Non-CumulativePreferredStock,SeriesD,datedMay26,2011.Incorporatedbyreference

toExhibit99.2ofM&TBankCorporation™sForm8-KdatedMay26,2011(File

No.1-9861).
3.4CertificateofAmendmenttoRestatedCertificateofIncorporationofM&TBank
Corporation,datedApril19,2013.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit3.1totheForm8-K

datedApril22,2013(FileNo.1-9861).
3.5CertificateofAmendmenttoRestatedCertificateofIncorporationofM&TBank
Corporation,datedFebruary11,2014.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit3.1tothe

Form8-KdatedFebruary11,2014(FileNo.1-9861).
4.1Therearenoinstrumentswithrespecttolong-termdebtofM&TBankCorporationandits
subsidiariesthatinvolvesecuritiesauthorizedundertheinstrumentinanamountexceeding

10percentofthetotalassetsofM&TBankCorporationanditssubsidiariesona

consolidatedbasis.M&TBankCorporationagreestoprovidetheSECwithacopyof

instrumentsdefiningtherightsofholdersoflong-termdebtofM&TBankCorporationand

itssubsidiariesonrequest.
4.2WarranttopurchasesharesofM&TBankCorporationCommonStockdatedasofMarch
26,2010.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit4.2totheForm10-Kfortheyearended

December31,2012(FileNo.1-9861).
4.3WarranttopurchasesharesofM&TBankCorporationCommonStockeffectiveMay16,
2011.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit4.1totheForm8-KdatedMay19,2011(FileNo.

1-9861).4.4WarrantAgreement(includingFormofWarrant),datedasofDecember11,2012,between
M&TBankCorporationandRegistrarandTransferCompany.Incorporatedbyreferenceto

Exhibit4.1totheForm8-AdatedDecember12,2012(FileNo.1-9861).
10.1CreditAgreement,datedasofDecember15,2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationand
Citibank,N.A.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.1totheForm10-Kfortheyear

endedDecember31,2000(FileNo.1-9861).
10.2AmendmentNo.1,datedDecember9,2003,totheCreditAgreement,datedasof
December15,2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationandCitibank,N.A.Incorporatedby

referencetoExhibit10.3totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2003(File

No.1-9861).
10.3AmendmentNo.2,datedJanuary30,2009,totheCreditAgreement,datedasof
December15,2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationandCitibank,N.A.Incorporatedby

referencetoExhibit10.3totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2008(File

No.1-9861).
10.4AmendmentNo.3,datedDecember4,2009,totheCreditAgreement,datedasof
December15,2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationandCitibank,N.A.Incorporatedby

referencetoExhibit10.4totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2009

(FileNo.1-9861).
17710.5AmendmentNo.4,datedDecember3,
2010,totheCreditAgreement,datedasofDecember15,
2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationandCitibank,N.A.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit

10.5totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2010(FileNo.1-9861).
10.6AmendmentNo.5,datedNovember21,
2011,totheCreditAgreement,datedasof
December15,2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationandCitibank,N.A.Incorporatedby

referencetoExhibit10.6totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2011

(FileNo.1-9861).
10.7AmendmentNo.6,datedNovember26,
2012,totheCreditAgreement,datedasofDecember
15,2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationandCitibank,N.A.Incorporatedbyreferenceto

Exhibit10.7totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2012(FileNo.1-9861).
10.8AmendmentNo.7,datedNovember22,2013,totheCreditAgreement,datedasof
December15,2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationandCitibank,N.A.Filedherewith.
10.9M&TBankCorporation2001StockOptionPlan.IncorporatedbyreferencetoAppendixA
totheProxyStatementofM&TBankCorporationdatedMarch6,2001(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.10M&TBankCorporationAnnualExecutiveIncentivePlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
ExhibitNo.10.3totheForm10-QforthequarterendedJune30,1998(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.11SupplementalDeferredCompensationAgreementbetweenManufacturersandTraders
TrustCompanyandBrianE.HickeydatedasofJuly21,1994.Incorporatedbyreferenceto

Exhibit10.8totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,1995(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.12Firstamendment,datedasofAugust1,2006,totheSupplementalDeferredCompensation
AgreementbetweenManufacturersandTradersTrustCompanyandBrianE.Hickeydated

asofJuly21,1994.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.2totheForm10-Qforthe

quarterendedSeptember30,2006(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.13SupplementalDeferredCompensationAgreement,datedJuly17,1989,betweenTheEast
NewYorkSavingsBankandAtwoodCollins,III.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.11

totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,1991(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.14Firstamendment,datedasofAugust1,2006,totheSupplementalDeferredCompensation
Agreement,datedJuly17,1989,betweenTheEastNewYorkSavingsBankandAtwood

Collins,III.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.3totheForm10-Qforthequarter

endedSeptember30,2006(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.15ConsultingAgreement,datedasofJune28,2012,betweenM&TBankCorporationand
RobertE.Sadler,Jr.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.2totheForm8-Kdated

December10,2012(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.16M&TBankCorporationSupplementalPensionPlan,asamendedandrestated.Incorporated
byreferencetoExhibit10.1totheForm8-KdatedNovember15,2005(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.17M&TBankCorporationSupplementalRetirementSavingsPlan.Incorporatedbyreference
toExhibit10.2totheForm8-KdatedNovember15,2005(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.18M&TBankCorporationDeferredBonusPlan,asamendedandrestated.Incorporatedby
referencetoExhibit10.12totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2004(File

No.1-9861).*
10.19M&TBankCorporation2008Directors™StockPlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
Exhibit4.1totheFormS-8datedApril7,2008(FileNo.333-150122).*
10.20M&TBankCorporation2008Directors™StockPlan,asamended.Incorporatedbyreference
toExhibit4.1totheFormS-8datedOctober19,2012(FileNo.333-184504).*
10.21KeystoneFinancial,Inc.1992DirectorFeePlan.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.11
totheForm10-KofKeystoneFinancial,Inc.fortheyearendedDecember31,1999(File

No.000-11460).*
10.22M&TBankCorporationEmployeeStockPurchasePlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.22totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2012(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.23M&TBankCorporation2005IncentiveCompensationPlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
AppendixAtotheProxyStatementofM&TBankCorporationdatedMarch4,2005

(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.24M&TBankCorporation2009EquityIncentiveCompensationPlan.Incorporatedby
referencetoAppendixAtotheProxyStatementofM&TBankCorporationdatedMarch6,

2009(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.25M&TBankCorporationFormofRestrictedStockAwardAgreement.Filedherewith.*
17810.26M&TBankCorporationFormofRestrictedStockUnitAwardAgreement.Filedherewith.*
10.27M&TBankCorporationFormofPerformance-VestedRestrictedStockUnitAward
Agreement.Filedherewith.*
10.28M&TBankCorporationEmployeeSeverancePlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.2totheForm10-QforthequarterendedMarch31,2005(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.29ProvidentBanksharesCorporationAmendedandRestatedStockOptionPlan.Incorporated
byreferencetoExhibit4.1totheRegistrationStatementonFormS-8datedJune5,2009

(FileNo.333-159795).*
10.30ProvidentBanksharesCorporation2004EquityCompensationPlan.Incorporatedby
referencetoExhibit4.2totheRegistrationStatementonFormS-8datedJune5,2009(File

No.333-159795).*
10.31WilmingtonTrustCorporationAmendedandRestated2002Long-TermIncentivePlan.
IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.64totheForm10-QofWilmingtonTrust

CorporationfiledonNovember9,2004(FileNo.1-14659).*
10.32WilmingtonTrustCorporationAmendedandRestated2005Long-TermIncentivePlan.
IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.21totheForm10-KofWilmingtonTrust

CorporationfiledonFebruary29,2008(FileNo.1-14659).*
10.33WilmingtonTrustCorporation2009Long-TermIncentivePlan.Incorporatedbyreference
toExhibitDtotheProxyStatementofWilmingtonTrustCorporationfiledonMarch16,

2009(FileNo.1-14659).*
11.1Statementre:ComputationofEarningsPerCommonShare.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
note14ofNotestoFinancialStatementsfiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancial

StatementsandSupplementaryData.ﬂ
12.1RatioofEarningstoFixedCharges.Filedherewith.
14.1M&TBankCorporationCodeofEthicsforCEOandSeniorFinancialOfficers.Incorporated
byreferencetoExhibit14.1totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2003(File

No.1-9861).
21.1SubsidiariesoftheRegistrant.IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁSubsidiariesﬂ
containedinPartI,Item1hereof.
23.1ConsentofPricewaterhouseCoopersLLPre:RegistrationStatementNos.333-57330,333-
63660,33-12207,33-58500,333-43171,333-43175,333-63985,333-97031,33-32044,333-

16077,333-84384,333-127406,333-150122,333-164015,333-163992,333-160769,333-

159795,333-170740,333-182348,333-189099and333-189097.Filedherewith.
31.1CertificationofChiefExecutiveOfficerunderSection302oftheSarbanes-OxleyActof
2002.Filedherewith.
31.2CertificationofChiefFinancialOfficerunderSection302oftheSarbanes-OxleyActof2002.
Filedherewith.
32.1CertificationofChiefExecutiveOfficerunder18U.S.C.§1350pursuanttoSection906of
theSarbanes-OxleyActof2002.Filedherewith.
32.2CertificationofChiefFinancialOfficerunder18U.S.C.§1350pursuanttoSection906ofthe
Sarbanes-OxleyActof2002.Filedherewith.
99.1ReplacementCapitalCovenantofM&TBankCorporationdatedJanuary31,
2008.Incorporated
byreferencetoExhibit99.1totheForm8-KdatedJanuary31,2008(FileNo.1-9861).
99.2AmendmenttoReplacementCapitalCovenantofM&TBankCorporation,datedasof
May27,2011,amendingtheReplacementCapitalCovenant,datedasofJanuary31,2008.

IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit99.2totheForm8-KdatedMay26,2011(File

No.1-9861).
101.INS**XBRLInstanceDocument.
101.SCH**XBRLTaxonomyExtensionSchema.

101.CAL**XBRLTaxonomyExtensionCalculationLinkbase.

101.LAB**XBRLTaxonomyExtensionLabelLinkbase.

101.PRE**XBRLTaxonomyExtensionPresentationLinkbase.

101.DEF**XBRLTaxonomyDefinitionLinkbase.
*Managementcontractorcompensatoryplanorarrangement.
**AsprovidedinRule406TofRegulationS-T,thisinformationisfurnishedandnotfiledforpurposesof
Sections11and12oftheSecuritiesActof1933andSection18oftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934.
179 DIVIDEND  A plan is available to common shareholders whereby they may invest their 
 REINVESTMENT PLAN  dividends and voluntary cash payments in additional shares of M&T Bank 
  Corporation™s common stock.
 INQUIRIES  Requests for information about the Dividend Reinvestment Plan and questions 
about stock certi˜cates, dividend checks or other account information should 

be addressed to M&T Bank Corporation™s transfer agent, registrar and dividend 

disbursing agent:
  Registrar and Transfer Company
  10 Commerce Drive 
   Cranford, NJ
 07016-3572  800-368-5948  E-mail address: info@rtco.com
  Internet address: www.rtco.com
   
Requests for additional copies of this publication or annual or quarterly reports 

˜led with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC Forms 

10-K and 10-Q), which are available at no charge, may be directed to:
  M&T Bank Corporation
  Shareholder Relations Department
  One M&T Plaza, 8th Floor
  Bu˚alo, NY
 14203-2399  716-842-5138  E-mail address: ir@mtb.com
  All other general inquiries may be directed to: 716-635-4000
 INTERNET ADDRESS www.mtb.com
 QUOTATION AND TRADING  M&T Bank Corporation™s common stock is traded under the
 OF CO
MMON STOCK  symbol MTB on the New York Stock Exchange (ﬁNYSEﬂ).
  COVER ART: Barnes Totem 
is the creation 
 of Ellsworth Kelly, an American master of abstract 
expressionism. It stands forty feet tall, is made 
 of bead-blasted stainless steel, and was designed 
speci˜cally for the garden outside ˚e Barnes 
 Foundation in Philadelphia. At the end of a re˛ecting 
pool, the sculpture is the focal point of a contemplative
 space between a row of maple trees and the building. 

Its pebbly surface complements the building™s exterior;
 its vertical lines reach upward, reinforcing the 
concept of con˜dent growth. 
Established by Dr. Albert C. Barnes in 1922, ˚e 
Barnes Foundation supports education, the ˜ne 
 arts and horticulture. Wilmington Trust, part of 
 the M&T corporate family, is proud to partner with 
˚e Barnes Foundation to promote the arts.
Ellsworth Kelly (American, b. 1923), Barnes Totem, 2011, 
 stainless steel, 480 x 80 x 20 inches (1219.2 x 203.2 x 50.8 cm), 
 
˚e Barnes Foundation. Made possible through the generosity 
 
of ˚e Neubauer Family Foundation, 2012.01.01.
www.barnesfoundation.org
Photographs by David Moser.
Flat size 17.21875ﬂ x 10.875ﬂ Finished 8.375ﬂ x 10.875ﬂ .46875ﬂ spine widthCMYK + PMS 376corp008511 2013Cover_db_M5.indd   4-61/24/14   2:55 PMM&T BANK CORPORA
TION  
2013 
ANNUAL 
REPOR
Twww.mtb.com 
M&T BANK CORPORATION  /  2013 ANNUAL REPORT 10%
COVER & S
EC 10
-K:˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˝˘
NARRATIVE:
COVER: 
Flat size 17.1875ﬂ x 10.875ﬂ Finished 8.375ﬂ x 10.875ﬂ .46875ﬂ spine widthCMYK + PMS 341corp008511 2013Cover_db_M5.indd   1-31/24/14   2:55 PM