M&T BANK CORPORATION 
2014 ANNUAL REPORT
COVER ART:
 An internationally renowned ˜ber artist, Sheila Hicks earned her BFA and MFA degrees from Yale University. As a young 
Fulbright Scholar in South America during the late 1950s, she developed a passion for using ˜bers in her art. 
˜read Bas-Relief
 was created 
in her Paris studio in 1972. Measuring 36 by 12 feet and mounted onto 11 separate panels, the intricate tapestry is made of cords of linen 

wrapped with gold and brightly colored threads, hand-wound by the artist using a modern approach to the ancient 
Passementrie
 technique. 

Specially commissioned for Wilmington Trust, the tapestry was originally installed in the Brandywine Building branch o˚ce in Delaware. 
 In May 2011, Wilmington Trust became part of M&T Bank Corporation. In May 2014, 
˜read Bas-Relief
 was moved to M&T corporate 

headquarters, located at One M&T Plaza, Bu˛alo, NY.
Sheila Hicks, 
˜read Bas-Relief,
 1972, 36 X 12 ˝., One M&T Plaza. 
i CONTENTS
 Financial Highlights
 ........................................ii  Message to Shareholders
 ....................................iv  O˜cers and Directors
 ..................................xxxvii
  United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Form 10-K
 ....xl ANNUAL MEETING  ˚e annual meeting of shareholders will take place at 11:00 a.m. on 
 April 21, 2015 at One M&T Plaza in Bu˛alo.
 PROFILE  
M&T Bank Corporation is a bank holding company headquartered in 
 Bu˛alo, New York, which had assets of $96.7 billion at December 31, 2014.
   
M&T Bank Corporation™s subsidiaries include M&T Bank and Wilmington 

Trust, National Association.
   M&T Bank has banking o˜ces in New York State, Pennsylvania, 
 Maryland, Delaware, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia. 
 Major subsidiaries include:
M&T BANK CORPORATION
 M&T Insurance Agency, Inc.
 M&T Real Estate Trust
 M&T Realty Capital Corporation
 M&T Securities, Inc.
  Wilmington Trust Company 
 Wilmington Trust Investment Advisors, Inc.
  iiM&T BANK CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
Financial Highlights(a) Excludes amortization and balances related to goodwill and core deposit and other intangible assets and merger-related expenses which, 
except in the calculation of the e˜ciency ratio, are net of applicable income tax e˚ects. A reconciliation of net income and net operating 
income appears in Item 7, Table 2 in Form 10-K.
(b) Excludes impact of merger-related expenses and net securities gains or losses.
 2014
 2013
 Change
For the year
Performance
 Net income (thousands)
 ...........  $ 1,066,246
 $ 1,138,480
 - 6% Net income available to common 
   shareholders Š diluted (thousands)
 ... 978,581 1,062,496 - 8% Return on
  Average assets 
 .................  1.16% 1.36%  Average common equity
 ..........  9.08% 10.93% Net interest margin
 ..............  3.31% 3.65% Net charge-o˛s/average loans
 .......  .19% .28%Per common share data
 Basic earnings
 .................   $  7.47 $  8.26 - 10% Diluted earnings
 ...............  7.42 8.20 - 10% Cash dividends
 ................ 2.80 2.80     Š Net operating (tangible) results
(a) Net operating income (thousands)
 ....  $ 1,086,903
 $ 1,174,635
 - 7% Diluted net operating earnings 
   per common share
 ..............  7.57 8.48 - 11% Net operating return on
  Average tangible assets
 ...........  1.23% 1.47%  Average tangible common equity
 .....  13.76% 17.79% E˜ciency ratio
(b)................  60.48% 57.05%At December 31
Balance sheet data (millions)
 Loans and leases, 
  net of unearned discount
 ..........  $ 66,669 $ 64,073 + 4% Total assets
 ...................  96,686 85,162 + 14% Deposits
 .....................  73,582 67,119 + 10% Total shareholders™ equity
 ..........  12,336 11,306 + 9%  Common shareholders™ equity
 ....... 11,102 10,421 + 7%Loan quality
 Allowance for credit losses to total loans 
 .  1.38% 1.43% Nonaccrual loans ratio
 ............  1.20% 1.36%Capital
 Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
 .......  12.47% 12.00%  Total risk-based capital ratio
 ........ 15.21%  15.07%  Leverage ratio
 .................  10.17% 10.78% Tier 1 common ratio
 ............. 9.83% 9.22%  Total equity/total assets
 ............  12.76% 13.28% Common equity (book value) per share
 .. $  83.88 $  79.81 + 5% Tangible common equity per share
 .... 57.06 52.45 + 9% Market price per share
  Closing
 .....................  125.62 116.42 + 8%  High
 .......................  128.96 119.54  Low
 .......................  109.16 95.68  iiiRETURN ON AVERAGE COMMONSHAREHOLDERS™ EQUITY 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014Net operating return on average tangible  common shareholders™ equity(a)Return on average common shareholders™ equity18.95% 17.96% 19.42% 17.79% 13.76%  9.30%   9.67% 10.96% 10.93%   9.08%(a) Excludes merger-related gains and expenses and amortization of intangible assets, net of applicable income tax e˚ects. 
 A reconciliation of net operating (tangible) results with net income is included in Item 7, Table 2 in Form 10-K.
DILUTED EARNINGSPER COMMON SHARE 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014Diluted net operating(a)Diluted  $5.84 $6.55 $7.88 $8.48 $7.57  $5.69 $6.35 $7.54 $8.20 $7.42 SHAREHOLDERS™ EQUITYPER COMMON SHARE AT YEAR-END 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Shareholders™ equity per common share  
at year-end 
Tangible shareholders™ equity per common share at year-end$63.54 $66.82 $72.73 $79.81 $83.88$33.26 $37.79 $44.61 $52.45 $57.06NET INCOMEIn millions 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014Net operating income(a)Net income$755.2 $884.3 $1,072.5 $1,174.6 $1,086.9$736.2 $859.5 $1,029.5 $1,138.5 $1,066.2ivMESSAGE TO SHAREHOLDERS
v         he year past was far from a typical one, either for U.S. banking 
 or at M&T. ˚e evolving nature of ˝nancial industry regulation, the 
attention paid to infrastructure and regulatory compliance, and the 
 uneven character of the economic recovery, all merit attention.
 M&T™s 2014 earnings did not match the record level of the 
 previous year. Nonetheless, they remained strong despite elevated 
 expenses, a consequence of investments in our infrastructure and the 

costs and complexity of responding to evolving regulatory compliance 
requirements. Our headway in such an environment re˙ects the core 
strength and resilience of the company. 
 Net income prepared in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles (ﬁGAAPﬂ) was $1.07 billion for the past year, 
 down 6% from $1.14 billion in the year prior. Diluted earnings per 
 common share totaled $7.42 in 2014, a decline of 10% from the earlier 
period. Last year™s net income, expressed as a return on average total 

assets and average common equity, was 1.16% and 9.08%, respectively. 
Comparable ˝gures for 2013 were 1.36% and 10.93%.
 Taxable-equivalent net interest income, which is comprised of 
interest received on loans and investments, less interest paid on deposits 
and borrowings, was $2.7 billion for 2014, a very slight increase from 2013, 
Tviowing in part to the continued low interest rate environment, which has 
remained in place for some 24 quarters. At the end of 2014, total loans were 
$66.7 billion, an increase of 4% from the end of the previous year. Average 
interest-earning assets rose by 10% last year, to $81.7 billion. ˚e largest 

component of that increase was a $4.9 billion or 74% higher level of 
 average investment securities. New regulations require banks like M&T to 

hold more government-backed securities as a ﬁliquid asset bu˛erﬂ for times 

of economic stress. Investment securities made up 13% of total assets at the 
end of 2014, compared with 10% of assets at the end of the previous year. 
˚ose lower yielding investments, purchased with $3.2 billion of borrowings 

raised in the debt capital markets, were additive to net interest income but 
negatively impacted our net interest margin. Taxable-equivalent net interest 
income expressed as a percentage of average earning assets Œ an important 

measure of balance sheet e˜ciency Œ was 3.31%, a decrease of 34 basis 
points (hundredths of one percent) from the year before.
 As the economy continued to improve during the year, so did the 
repayment performance of M&T™s loan portfolio. Net charge-o˛s were 
$121 million, an improvement from $183 million in 2013. Net charge-o˛s 
expressed as a percentage of average loans outstanding were 0.19%, which 
is the lowest ˝gure we™ve seen since the 0.16% level recorded in 2006, 

immediately prior to the last ˝nancial crisis. M&T™s allowance for losses on 
loans and leases stood at $920 million as of December 31, 2014, representing 
1.38% of loans outstanding. ˚e modest $3 million increase in the allowance 

from the end of the previous year re˙ects a provision for loan losses of $124 

million for 2014, less the $121 million of net charge-o˛s.
vii
 Income from fees and other sources totaled $1.78 billion in 2014, a 
decrease of $86 million from 2013. ˚e previous year was marked by net 
securities and securitization gains of $110 million, as M&T repositioned its 
balance sheet in preparation for our ˝rst-time participation in the Federal 

Reserve™s 2014 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (ﬁCCARﬂ) 
program. ˚ose gains did not reoccur in 2014. Revenues from mortgage 
banking increased by 10% to $363 million over the past year and trust 

revenues increased by 2% to $508 million.
 As a result of increased expenses arising from our ongoing e˛orts 
to upgrade M&T™s bank secrecy and anti-money laundering (ﬁBSA/AMLﬂ) 
compliance program, in addition to other key investments that position 
M&T for the new regulatory and operating environment, non-interest 
expenses increased to $2.74 billion last year, 4% higher than $2.64 billion 

in the previous year. Contributing to the higher level of expenses was a 4% 

increase in employee salaries and bene˝ts as well as a 9% increase in other 
costs of operations.
 We continued to grow our capital base in 2014. M&T™s Tier 1 
common capital ratio, which is the one most closely followed by both 
regulators and the investment community, increased to 9.83% at the end of 
the year, an improvement of 61 basis points from 9.22% at the end of 2013, 
e˛ectively closing the gap with our peer regional and super-regional banks. 

Our tangible book value per share was $57.06 at December 31, 2014, an 
increase of 9% from the end of 2013.
viii
PARDON OUR DUST
In the wake of our investments of the past two years, it is tempting to 
 borrow a slogan one sees at stores changing their inventories or displays: 
ﬁpardon our dust.ﬂ It implies that change, in some ways di˜cult and 
inconvenient,ˆis underway Œ but that something better is taking shape. 
 
˚at™s certainly indicative of what™s been going on at M&T.
 ˚e year 2014 will be remembered as one in which we turned our 
focus inward, enhanced our infrastructure and broadened our knowledge 
base. As discussed in these pages last year, a great deal of work was begun 
in 2013 to address heightened demands from our regulators. We continued 
to invest considerable time, money, thought and labor in 2014 to make 

substantial progress on those e˛orts, while simultaneously working to build 

a better, stronger M&T Bank. We have worked on improving technology, 
risk management and business processes while adding to our ranks of 
talented personnel. We hired top professionals with expertise in emerging 

areas of focus. Our technology and banking operations division alone was 

forti˝ed by key hires with responsibilities spanning development, security, 
architecture and connectivity. ˚ose additions included a Chief Technology 
O˜cer and an Enterprise Security O˜cer Œ new positions that embody the 

changing nature of our bank and our industry. Fundamentally, we know 
more about more topics than last year, and collectively we are acutely aware 
of the path required to succeed in tomorrow™s banking industry.
 ˚ere is no denying that the work undertaken thus far has not 
been optional Œ it™s work that had to be done. We spent $266 million in 
ix2014 in a broad swath of e˛orts that will help M&T ful˝ll its regulatory 
obligations Œ an unprecedented amount in unprecedented times. However, 
our construction e˛orts have not been limited to regulatory matters, nor 
does 2014 mark the end of such expenditures. We will continue to invest 

heavily in data, technology and personnel in 2015 and beyond; these 
are investments that will enable our colleagues to serve our clients more 
e˜ciently while providing the products and services needed to achieve 

their ˝nancial objectives.
 ˚e notion of strengthening our foundation is not foreign. ˚ere 
have been seminal moments in our history when we have paused to make 
signi˝cant investments driven by customer needs or movement into new 
markets. Whenever we grow by way of acquisition, we then busy ourselves 
by digesting what we™ve become while trying to make it better. ˚ink of 
 
the work we™re doing now in much the same way, though in this case we 

are improving because we expect to continue to grow.
RISK MANAGEMENT INFRASTRUCTURE:
 Enhancing our BSA/AML 
program consumed signi˝cant time, energy and money with investments 
of $151 million last year, in addition to the $60 million spent in the prior 
year. ˚e systems we began building in 2013 were deployed to great e˛ect 

this past year. ˚e expanse and depth of our new BSA/AML program is 
both imposing and remarkable; it ensures that the risk pro˝le of every 
customer of the bank, old and new, is understood and properly managed.
 In 2014, M&T fully implemented a new Know Your Customer 
program to better assess the potential risks presented by each of our 
 x3.6 million customers and their 5.4 million accounts. ˚is program, which 
has been in operation for nearly one full year, has been used with 149,065 
new customers. We have obtained appropriate additional information, or 
conducted remediation, as the jargon of BSA/AML would have it, on 671,502 

customers and remediated 95% of the existing customers whom our models 
identi˝ed as requiring a higher level of scrutiny. A year ago, the team 
responsible for researching customers with higher risk pro˝les reviewed an 

average of 77 per day; that ˝gure reached a peak of 327, a fourfold increase, 
stemming from additional resources, as well as enhanced processes and 
e˜ciency as the group became seasoned at their task. Our integrated BSA/

AML program spans all business units, and no corner of the enterprise lacks 
oversight or accountability. A rigorous, customized training curriculum was 
developed to ensure each employee is properly positioned to perform his or 

her respective duties. Collectively, they spent 91,834 hours in classrooms, 
person-to-person training and online courses about BSA/AML and related 
regulations. Each one of our employees understands his or her part in 

executing this program.
 Along with investments in systems and processes, we also invested 
in talent to support and oversee these e˛orts. In 2014, 630 colleagues were 
dedicated to this program, as well as over 300 contractors and consultants; 

together they occupied nearly 10% of our total o˜ce space in downtown 
Bu˛alo, where we are already the largest private sector employer.
 Our e˛orts in 2013 were characterized by intensive preparation for 
the inaugural participation in the CCAR process Œ which requires each 
xiparticipating organization to project its revenues, credit losses and capital 
levels under ˝ve hypothetical scenarios, two internally developed and 
three provided by the Federal Reserve. ˚ese scenarios include levels of 
economic indicators such as the real and nominal Gross Domestic Product, 

the Consumer Price Index, the U.S. unemployment rate, the CoreLogic 
U.S. House Price Index, the Federal Reserve Board™s U.S. Commercial Real 
Estate Price Index; interest rates: 3-month Treasury rate, 5-year Treasury 

yield, 10-year Treasury yield, BBB corporate yield, Mortgage rate and Prime 
rate; the Dow Jones Total Stock Market Index and the Market Volatility 
Index, which may be seen in distressed, recessionary environments.
 It was heartening to receive no objection to our ˝rst CCAR 
submission when the ˝nal results were released by the Federal Reserve in 
March of last year. Continued investment in 2014 was devoted to making 

our methodology more comprehensive and e˜cient. We are keenly 

aware that the regulatory bar continues to rise Œ and what was deemed 
satisfactory one year may not pass muster the next. Hence, we continued to 
strengthen intellectual capital by directing talent to the CCAR e˛ort, while 

adding specialized skill sets from outside the organization where needed. 
˚is team, dedicated to stress testing and the capital planning process, now 
includes 91 professionals Œ an increase of 32% over the team that supported 

the ˝rst submission.
 We continue to work on ensuring that our risk management and 
capital planning practices are comprehensive, that they permeate all parts 
of our day-to-day business activities and, therefore, are commensurate 
xiiwith our risk pro˝le. During 2014, 292 individuals across the organization, 
including the CCAR team, were involved in stress testing-related activities 
Œ an increase of 56% over the prior year. Given the quantitative emphasis 
of the exercise, nearly half of the 75 models that support our work were 

upgraded in response to evolving standards of the Federal Reserve and 
self-identi˝ed areas for improvement. ˚e key governing committees met 
74 times during the year to discuss capital and stress test-related topics, 

compared to 38 times in 2013 Œ prior to our initial CCAR submission.
 In addition to BSA/AML and CCAR, we have invested heavily to 
comply with other elements of the Federal Reserve™s enhanced prudential 
standards for bank holding companies. Our growing Risk Management 
division Œ which numbers 727 colleagues Œ is more than ˝ve times as large 
as it was in 2009 and 56% larger than in 2013 Œ at a cost of $181 million, 
 
an 84% increase over 2013.
 New regulatory standards also require more formal, structured risk 
management governance; which is furthered by the new systems, models, 
procedures and policies that allow us to better document the process used 
 to manage risk. Taken together, 190 committees produce nearly 7,600 pages 

of meeting minutes annually Œ more than twice that of ˝ve years ago. 
 Last year, the Risk Committee of our Board of Directors met 18 times, 
 while reviewing 4,445 pages of presentation materials.
 ˚ese are investments be˝tting an institution of broader size, 
geography and business model than M&T is currently, and which will 
undoubtedly serve to meet our own operational and strategic needs for 
xiiiyears to come. But they are far from unrelated to problems and challenges 
faced by the ˝nancial services industry as a whole Œ to protect it from the 
collateral damage that can be in˙icted by opaque systems and transactions, 
as well as from a growing wave of external security threats.
DATA, TECHNOLOGY AND CYBERSECURITY:
 Looking back at the last 
˝nancial crisis, it is evident that transparency and integrity of data on 
products, portfolios and services within the banking system and their 
attendant risks were seriously de˝cient. In its aˇermath, governing bodies 

are requiring banks to provide data on their operations frequently and 
oˇen on an ﬁon demandﬂ basis. ˚e magnitude of requests has grown 
signi˝cantly since the crisis and now, in addition to just providing answers, 

work papers and supporting documentation must be made available as well.
 Answers to regulatory-related questions can involve an array of 
 bits and bytes, which can be extremely time consuming to ful˝ll, coming 
from di˛erent corners of the enterprise. Beyond the demands of regulation, 
it is also clear to us that in the information age, data is the lifeblood of 
 
an organization Œ for customer service, marketing, ˝nance, risk and 
 other functions.
 In 2013, business needs, regulations, as well as common sense, 
stimulated us to begin implementation of an enterprise data warehouse. 
Beyond the $25 million we have already invested in getting the integrated 

warehouse up and running, we will continue to work on making the data 
it houses much more comprehensive and accessible, spending perhaps an 
additional $20 million annually for the next three years. It will enhance 
 xiv
our ability to analyze data for our own use and to better serve our 
customers, while allowing us to provide better information to regulators. 
Today, much of this information is maintained in ﬁvertical silos.ﬂ
 Banks are increasingly being de˝ned by their ﬁplumbing,ﬂ the 
technology they deploy to serve their customers. In the past year, we have 
invested in our online banking platform and mobile banking application, 
enhanced commercial and mortgage lending capabilities and began work on 

upgrading the operating system that resides on 27,333 personal computers 
and servers, requiring an investment of $19 million. Investments like these 
will mean a simpler approach for our clients and an easier experience for 
 
our colleagues.
 Improving that experience is but one of the priorities for our 
technology investments. Almost daily we are reminded that the threat of 
attacks on the systems that have created unprecedented convenience and 
e˜ciency, has also leˇ us at risk of novel forms of crime. Indeed, cybercrime 

is a new global growth industry. A recent report by the Center for Strategic 
and International Studies estimates that global cybercrime in˙icts losses 
of up to $400 billion each year, which is almost as much as the estimated 

cost of drug tra˜cking. In 2013, more than 40 million individuals in the 
U.S. experienced the theˇ of their personal information. Cybercrime, it is 
estimated, extracts between 15% and 20% of the $2 trillion to $3 trillion in 

value created by the Internet.
 A vast apparatus of nefarious, increasingly complex activities 
continues to manifest itself in a growing number of ways, threatening the 
xvviability of the systems the world uses to conduct commerce. From 
 the petty criminal on a home computer, to organized networks 
 of dedicated hackers, to foreign government-sponsored threats, 
 the various forms of cybercrime are growing rapidly. Government 
Accountability O˜ce (ﬁGAOﬂ) testimony before Congress revealed 
 that in 2007, US-CERT (Computer Emergency Readiness Team) received 
almost 12,000 information security incident reports. ˚at number 
 
had more than doubled by 2009, according to statistics from the GAO, 
 and it had quintupled by 2013. Based upon one study, the number of 
reported retail customer accounts compromised due to data breaches 

increased from less than one million in 2012 to over 60 million in 2014. 
 In 2012, M&T reissued 6,955 debit cards to cardholders who had 
 
been compromised because of identity theˇ, either as individuals or 

because a retailer had been hacked. In 2014, that number had grown to 
294,415. Over the same timeframe, the number of cyberattacks on our 
systems that we have blocked has gone up by 27% and the number of 

ﬁphishing sites,ﬂ those set up by fraudsters to trick customers into 
 
believing they are logging onto the M&T website, increased by 36%. 
A recent article in 
˛e New York Times
 on cyberattacks quoted law 
enforcement o˜cials as saying that the threat of hacking was particularly 

acute for the health care and ˝nancial services sectors, and that the 
 
FBI now ranks cybercrime as one of its top law enforcement priorities. 
Scarcely a week goes by, it seems, without headlines about a cyberattack 
 on a major U.S. corporation.
xvi
 ˚e payments system, the infrastructure that enables money to 
move through a modern economy, is a prime target of cybercriminals. 
Unfortunately, America has fallen behind much of the developed world in 
modernizing this core system. Money is increasingly moved electronically 

rather than through the traditional means of checks or cash. As of 2012, 
while check transactions in the U.S. declined to 15.5% of non-cash payment 
transactions, in mature markets like Europe they only account for 4.8%. 

Technology companies, retailers and service businesses have stepped in 
to attach to the existing payments infrastructure, providing convenient 
new ways of making payment transactions to their customers. While the 

innovation that is happening outside the banking industry has the potential 
to bene˝t the public, these non-bank entities are not regulated to the same 
high standards as banks and, ultimately, it is the banking industry that 

is held responsible for the safety and soundness of the payments system. 
As such, it behooves the entire banking industry, behemoth banks and 
community banks alike, to work together with regulators to ensure that 

America has a payments system that is highly secure and maintains the 

public trust, yet is open to many forms of innovation.
 It has always been our prime objective to secure our clients™ ˝nancial 
assets and the bank itself. Not so long ago, ensuring security primarily 
involved guards, armored carriers and vaults. We still need them, but the 
focus has shiˇed decisively to protecting our customers™ data and M&T™s 
technological infrastructure from electronic attack. To that end, we added 

senior cybersecurity experts last year, increasing our sta˛ by more than 
xvii
20%. We are also partnering with colleges to bring in a pipeline of young 
talent with the right education in security. We have invested signi˝cantly 
 in enterprise fraud technology and enhanced online security Œ e˛orts 
 that comprised just a portion of the 46% increase in investment in 
 
cybersecurity last year Œ an investment that will undoubtedly continue to 
grow in an attempt to stay ahead of rapidly expanding and varied threats. 
In an era in which the risks of poor cybersecurity are plain, high security 

standards are no luxury. Indeed, they are crucial to our operations.
NEW JERSEY:
 ˚ere are any number of reasons why it has long made sense 
for M&T to look to New Jersey should we choose to expand via acquisition. 
Quite simply, doing so is in keeping with the character of our past three 
decades of mergers and acquisitions, which have consistently brought us 

into markets similar to, and contiguous with, those we have served and 
with which we are familiar Œ and where a branch network providing our 
broad range of services would improve the banking options available to 

households and businesses. By most counts, New Jersey is an attractive 

market. Its median household income ranks third in the United States, 
while its median household net worth ranks seventh. Middle market and 
small businesses, the core of M&T™s clientele, are 20% higher per capita 

than the national average.
 ˚e attractiveness of this market underpinned our August 2012 
decision to enter into a merger agreement with Hudson City Bancorp 
(ﬁHudson Cityﬂ), believing that we had identi˝ed a transaction which 

made good sense for both parties Œ and for New Jersey, where Hudson 
xviii
City™s branch network is concentrated. Although the e˛ort to complete 
this transaction has proven to be more of a marathon than a sprint, we™re 
nonetheless dedicated to crossing the ˝nish line Œ even if it™s a bit farther 
out than we thought. In December, we announced an extension of our 

merger agreement Œ the third time we™ve done so. Still, everything that 
made our respective organizations a good ˝t in the summer of 2012 
 remains true today. Hudson City™s credit culture was always consistent 
 
with our own conservative approach to credit. ˚e passage of time is 
proving that to be even more true; in the two and a half years since we 
announced the merger, the credit characteristics of that portfolio have 

improved further. ˚e economic bene˝ts that we expected to accrue 
 to both institutions™ shareholders hold the same promise. Delays are 
admittedly frustrating, but this is a merger to which both parties remain 

deeply committed.
 Despite the delay, considerable progress has been made in bringing 
M&T™s community banking model to New Jersey. We opened three new 
o˜ces there in 2014, in addition to the four already in place. ˚ese o˜ces 

house 129 customer facing employees responsible for commercial banking, 
residential mortgages, investment securities and wealth management. 
 M&T now has a portfolio of $1.3 billion in loans to small and large 

companies, commercial real estate developers, auto dealers and residential 
mortgage customers in the state. It is interesting to note that there are 
already 34 of our colleagues serving on 83 not-for-pro˝t boards, which is 

typical of M&T™s community involvement. We are in New Jersey to stay.
xix So it is that we continue our work in earnest, heartened by the 
prospects of building a better bank for a better tomorrow. While one can 
be optimistic, indeed excited, about our future, the realities of the present 
environment must also be acknowledged. M&T has long been a community 

bank focused on its customers, employees and shareholders. Our core 
tenets of serving the ˝nancial needs of people in our communities through 
simple, easily understood products, strong credit standards and an e˜cient 

operating model, remain our mission.
 Our task now is to complete these transformational e˛orts and 
 to evolve without sacri˝cing those guiding tenets that are our hallmark. 
Rest assured that we will go about them diligently like every other endeavor 
in our history. We remain con˝dent in M&T™s ability to adapt, even as the 
environment changes around us.
COMPLEXITY NOT SIZE Œ CONTRASTING BUSINESS MODELS
Although our de˝ning character as a bank that serves its communities 
 
may be clear to us, it is no longer the yardstick against which we™re 
measured. ˚ere are 33 banks with more than $50 billion in assets in the 
United States; M&T is the ninth smallest of those banks. Because it exceeds 

that asset threshold, it is held to many of the same standards as banks 
with much more complex business models and intricate global exposures. 
We™re expected to maintain a regulatory infrastructure on a scale similar 

to the large banks Œ in a sense constructing a super highway to get through 
a small city. In this context, it seems worthwhile to point out that M&T™s 
estimated annual cost of regulatory compliance rose to $441 million, 
 xx16.3% of our total operating expense, an amount that is over four and a 
 half times the level of a mere three years ago. ˚e number of regulatory 
exams at M&T in 2014, conducted by nine di˛erent government agencies, 
was over 45% higher than in 2012. Our total operating expenses, which 

excludes intangible amortization and merger-related expenses, increased 
by 5% in 2014, outpacing our peers signi˝cantly, which in turn has led to 
substantial erosion, temporarily one hopes, of our traditional operating 

e˜ciency advantage.
 We remain con˝dent that our essential community-oriented business 
model will continue to serve both our customers and investors well. It is of 
concern, however, that the distinctive virtues of that traditional model of 
banking as practiced not just by M&T but the majority of American banks 
are less than fully appreciated in some important quarters. ˚e imperative 

of distinguishing between what might be called Main Street and Wall Street 
banks has been discussed previously in this Message, but it bears repetition, 
analysis and speci˝c illustration. Simply put, the 6,482 community and 

regional banks of Main Street have a very di˛erent business model than 
 
the ˝ve large U.S. banks that dominate the activities traditionally associated 
with Wall Street.
 Main Street banks gather deposits and make loans; they are the 
primary providers of ˝nance to local businesses in the neighborhoods 
they serve. Loans comprise 61% of assets at regional banks compared 
with just 31% for the ˝ve large, complex and globally interconnected U.S. 

bank holding companies. Perhaps no other measure illustrates this point 
xxibetter than the comparison of lending to small businesses. It is interesting 
to note that last year those ˝ve large banks funded 4% of Small Business 
Administration loans, a subset of loans made to small businesses, while the 
rest, Main Street banks, funded 96%. Core deposits fund 64% of assets at 

regional banks; the comparable ˝gure for large banks is just 32%. Here at 
M&T, some 69% of our assets are simple lending agreements made in the 
interest of funding commerce and industry as well as the personal needs 
 
of individuals, particularly mortgages for their homes and ˝nancing for 
their automobiles. Core deposits fund 75% of our assets. ˚ose ˝ve large 
banks have limited branch networks in smaller and rural communities. 
 
Just 55% of these large bank branch o˜ces can be found outside the ten 
largest metropolitan areas, compared with 73% for regional banks.
 Beyond these distinctions, the key feature that di˛erentiates the 
operating model of most large banks is their involvement in the trading and 
manufacturing of derivatives Œ instruments that have long bred complexity 
and confusion. In fact, ˝ve banks accounted for 95% of the $304 trillion of 
U.S. banking sector derivatives outstanding at the end of September 2014. 
 
To put it in perspective, that ˝gure amounts to 16 times the U.S. GDP and 
19 times the total banking system assets in the U.S. Œ eye popping indeed. 
Even aˇer the crisis and subsequent adoption of the Volcker rule, the ˝ve 

large banks in 2014 still accounted for 90% of total U.S. bank trading 
revenue while the remaining 6,482 banks accounted for 10%.
 ˚e American public™s relationship with derivatives is long and well 
chronicled. Since their creation in 1848, derivatives markets have been 
xxiia˘icted by speculation, lack of transparency and manipulation. Noting 
 the price distortions that wreaked ˝nancial havoc on America™s agricultural 
sector during the Great Depression and caused widespread public 
hardship, President Roosevelt said, ﬁ–it should be our national policy to 

restrict, as far as possible, the use of these [futures] exchanges for purely 
speculative operations.ﬂ ˚e Commodity Exchange Act (ﬁCEAﬂ) in 1936 
required that futures contracts be traded on regulated exchanges, which 

facilitated transparent price discovery, identi˝cation of buyers and sellers, 
standardization of contracts and adequate capital to support the ful˝lment 
of contractual commitments. Since the use of swap contracts came into 

being some 34 years ago, they have been progressively exempt from 
regulation. In 1993, they were o˜cially excluded from the purview of the 
exchange trading provision of the CEA with its attendant requirements of 

transparency and adequate capitalization. It is no surprise this was followed 
by events such as the bankruptcy ˝ling of Orange County, California in 
1994, aˇer losing $1.5 billion on poorly understood interest rate swaps, and 

losses through derivatives by such major corporations as Gibson Greetings 

and Procter & Gamble. In 2000, the passage of the Commodity Futures 
Modernization Act e˛ectively removed the swaps market from almost 
all pertinent federal regulatory oversight and preempted state rules and 

regulations. ˚e outcome: the bankruptcy of Je˛erson County, Alabama, 

also a consequence of interest rate swaps, which resulted in increases in 
sewer rates to its citizens of 7.9% annually; losses incurred by the City of 
Detroit, which later ˝led for bankruptcy, on swap contracts connected with 

pension debt; and payments required to be made by the Denver public 
xxiiischool system to terminate complex derivative transactions originally 
executed with the promise of bolstering its pension fund, among many 
 other instances of large scale impact on the taxpaying public.
 Use of credit default swaps (ﬁCDSﬂ) to place bets that homeowners 
would default on their mortgages had devastating consequences to the 
American public during the last crisis. ˚ese ﬁnaked tradesﬂ by parties with 
no exposures to the underlying mortgage loans signi˝cantly outweighed 

the actual amount of mortgage debt outstanding. In 2014, we saw that such 
wagers were alive and well in other areas of our economy and continued to 
provide participants with lucrative opportunity for speculation. As a well-

known electronics retailer teetered on the brink of bankruptcy, bets made 
on its eventual fate through the medium of CDS stood at $23.5 billion, 
dwar˝ng by 16.8 times the $1.4 billion in debt that the company actually 

owed to its creditors. ˚ese wagers, on whether and when the ˝rm would 

default on its debt, were facilitated by hedge fund managers, who ˝rst sold 
high premium insurance to those who believed that the company™s demise 
was imminent. ˚en, they turned around and provided temporary life 

support in the form of ﬁrescue ˝nancingﬂ to keep it alive long enough to 
pocket the premium. Lack of transparency in these markets makes it very 
di˜cult to ascertain the true economic motives and exposure of any parties 

involved with CDS. One can only sound a sigh of relief that those involved 
were outside the banking industry, were adequately capitalized and were not 
wagering with depositors™ funds. Such was not the case in 2012, when one of 

these same hedge fund managers was on the winning side of the ﬁLondon 
xxiv
Whaleﬂ trades that resulted in notable losses for one large bank and sparked 
outrage from regulators and the general public.
 ˚e disruptive forces that exist in the derivatives markets will most 
assuredly endure. Despite their usefulness as a risk management tool to 
assist those engaged in commerce and industry, derivatives have been a 
vehicle for speculation and price manipulation almost since their inception. 
In the absence of e˛ective regulation, their use for speculative endeavors 

continues to have the potential to damage our ˝nancial system.
 It is comforting that in the aˇermath of the crisis, government 
agencies have regained the required authority to supervise this $304 trillion 
market, particularly as it relates to bank holding companies. An indication 

of the breadth and depth of the regulatory e˛ort is provided by seven federal 

agencies: the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, the Commodity 
Futures Trading Commission, the O˜ce of the Comptroller of the Currency, 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit 

Insurance Corporation, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, and the 
Farm Credit Administration, which together issued 81 ˝nal rules and an 
additional 35 proposed rules, totaling by one estimate 11,844 pages in the 

Federal Register over four years. ˚e complexity, opacity and potential 
 of derivatives to again seriously damage our economy are clearly too great 
 to be ignored.
 Even with the bene˝t of the regulatory e˛orts mentioned above, one 
of the hallmarks of derivatives remains their lack of transparency; it is 
di˜cult for regulators, investors and others to understand the true exposure 
xxvof the banks that dominate trading in derivatives and the extent of their 
interconnectedness. Even with an average of 13 pages of footnotes in the 
˝nancial statements of the ˝ve large trading banks, one is leˇ with far more 
questions than answers. For example: How does the value of the derivatives 

change over time? Who are the counterparties and what is their level of 
creditworthiness? How do the counterparties™ risk exposures interconnect 
them with each other in di˛erent global markets? How will the payments 

and the associated sequence work in the case of a default? Can such 
mind-boggling numbers even be managed or do the derivatives portfolios 
ultimately manage us?
 Although complexity is oˇen equated with size, that equation is a 
spurious one Œ one of the largest U.S. banks has an operating model that 
is much more akin to Main Street banks than the other large banks. Loans 

to individuals and commercial borrowers comprise 52% of its assets while 

62% of those assets are funded with core deposits and 70% of its branches 
are located outside the ten largest metropolitan areas. Trading activities 
comprised just 2% of its revenue last year, yet it has $1.7 trillion of assets. 

It is interesting to note that this bank was the only one among the largest 
six U.S. banks whose plan to manage an orderly disposition in the event of 
distress, was accepted by the regulators Œ an indication of the simplicity of 

its business model.
 It is only logical that the sophistication and granularity of the 
quantitative modeling and analytical capabilities required to manage a 
large trading portfolio, where values change on a daily basis, and traders™ 
xxvi
compensation systems o˛er large payouts for short-term performance, 
 di˛er extremely from those required for a regional bank, whose loan 
portfolios are held to maturity rather than traded on a daily basis, 
 where the quantity of leverage is transparent, the bearer of risk of loss 
 
is clearly identi˝able and loan o˜cer compensation programs are 
 more mainstream.
 Indeed, rules intended to increase transparency, require adequate 
capital to honor commitments, and ensure identi˝cation of the parties 
involved through a central clearing system so that failures can be resolved 
 in an orderly manner, are not just logical but long overdue. So the question 

is not whether, but how. How does one e˛ectively regulate institutions 
 whose de˝ning characteristic is complexity, a feature derived signi˝cantly 
from their domination of the business of manufacturing, trading and 
 
selling derivatives in the United States, without burdening the rest of 

the banking system that is critical to facilitating much-needed economic 
growth? It seems abundantly evident that in order to maximize e˛ectiveness, 
regulation should be based on the complexity of business model, and not 
 
on the size of institutions.
A TIERED APPROACH TO REGULATION
While banks™ business models are di˛erent, government™s regulation 
 of them is similar. At the same time, compliance has become ever more 
 central to the business of banking.

 When the Dodd-Frank Act was written, the principle that size 
correlates to riskiness was not outlandish. Aˇer all, it was the failure 
 xxvii
(or potential failure) of the largest institutions that threatened the ˝nancial 
system and the economy at large. Size makes for a simple, perhaps too 
convenient barometer Œ a bank either has over $50 billion in assets or it 
doesn™t. ˚e complexity and systemic importance of an institution, on the 

other hand, is far more di˜cult to ascertain. To avoid subjective debates 
about which regulations should apply to which institutions, using size as a 
primary determinant was, perhaps, a practical starting point. However, it 

is now time to review the objectives of the enhanced prudential standards 
and allow for the varying supervision needs of organizations with di˛ering 
levels of complexity. Aˇer all, the goal of legislation and regulation is to 

protect consumers and the economy while facilitating commerce, not 
hampering it. Indeed, further adaptation of the regulations may be in store 
based on recent comments made by a member of the Board of Governors 

of the Federal Reserve System. In suggesting the possibility of a ﬁtiered 
approach to regulation and supervision of community banks,ﬂ the Governor 
noted, ﬁ[such banks] have a smaller balance sheet across which to amortize 

compliance costs.ﬂ
 Adoption of a ﬁtiered approach,ﬂ based on complexity as opposed to 
simply size, would be a welcome change while preserving the core intent 
of the Dodd-Frank regulations to minimize risks to U.S. ˝nancial stability. 

Banks over $50 billion in size are required to go through semiannual stress 
tests, as well as to annually create so-called Living Wills Œ instructions on 
how to e˛ectively wind down an institution if the capital and liquidity rules 

are insu˜cient to prevent its demise. Many CCAR standards are better 
xxviii
suited to assess, monitor and estimate complex exposures and activities such 
as trading, derivatives and counterparty risk, which carry a higher level of 
volatility in stressed environments. Using a standardized approach across 
the entire banking industry in these areas creates a risk that banks with 

simpler business models are not rewarded with lower infrastructure cost. 
 As an alternative to the current approach, the annual CCAR exercise could 
 be replaced with a review of the capital planning program through the
 normal supervisory teams dedicated to institutions with lower risk operations. 

˚is would allow for a more customized approach to determining capital 
planning and adequacy, commensurate with the complexity of the bank.
 For the most part, regional and community banks do not exhibit 
the maze of interconnectedness through derivative transactions that 
characterize the largest banks, and have much simpler legal structures, 

which make them much easier to deal with in case of failure through the 

traditional and time tested FDIC process. A publication of ˚e Clearing 
House Association noted, ﬁIf you were to add up the legal entities of all 
 of America™s regional banks, the total would still be less than the number 
 
of legal entities under America™s single largest bank holding company.ﬂ 
Simple regional banks could be required to update their plan for disposition 
only if a signi˝cant acquisition or other change meaningfully altered their 

legal structure.
 Banks with assets greater than $50 billion are required to hold large 
stocks of liquid securities under the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (ﬁLCRﬂ) 
rule to satisfy hypothetical funding needs calculated using standardized 
xxixassumptions provided by the regulators. Unlike large trading banks with 
volatile balance sheets that rely upon short-term wholesale funding, the 
balance sheets of regional and community banks are predominantly funded 
with stable core customer deposits. Given the lower liquidity risk presented 

by regional banks, it would seem appropriate for the LCR to substantially 
di˛erentiate them from trading banks with respect to the amount of 
securities required to be held, and the granularity, frequency and amount 

of data to be provided to the regulators. Such a tailored approach would 
satisfy the objective of improving the banking system™s ability to withstand 
increased liquidity needs during stressful economic environments without 

placing an outsized burden on Main Street banks.
 At the heart of the last crisis were incentive compensation systems 
that encouraged traders to take on undue risk, to earn large sums of money, 
without having to forfeit any previously earned compensation on trades that 

subsequently turned out to be excessively risky. In 2014, the average salary 
and bene˝ts per employee at the ˝ve large trading banks was $212,665. 
While at the rest of the domestic banks with total assets of over $50 billion 
 
it was $101,724, or 52% less. One large institution™s personnel earned 
$379,402 per person or nearly four times more than the rest of the banks 
that did not specialize in Wall Street activities.
 Given compensation systems with huge payouts at trading banks, 
regulators have rightly enacted a series of rules to ensure that incentive 
programs do not tempt employees into actions that expose banks to undue 
risk. However, while these policies are essential to preventing excessive risk-
xxxtaking by traders, the rules are burdensome for regional bank employees 
who have little ability to take risk positions that could bring down the bank. 
By way of example, last year, 2,461 individuals, or 16% of M&T™s employee 
base, fell within the purview of these provisions, requiring that their 

compensation packages be subject to heightened review. Allowing regional 
banks to restrict the applicability of these provisions to their executive 
management team and a handful of other employees, would reduce the 

burden of compliance, and focus more scrutiny on those individuals within 
the company who actually have the ability to subject the organization to 
material risk.
 While these are a few examples of what could be done, it is time to 
review all the impediments to community lending and economic growth 
that regulations predicated on size, rather than complexity, have created 

for the banking industry. Complexity, not size, is the de˝ning contributor 

of signi˝cant risk to the ˝nancial system and taxpayers. ˚e enhanced 
prudential standards adopted by the Federal Reserve in February 2014 
are not only a logical consequence of the recent ˝nancial crisis Œ they 

were necessary. Now, regulators and industry together should assess what 
we have learned since the crisis in an e˛ort to hone the e˛ectiveness of 
regulating complexity, without burdening simpler business models with 

disproportionately higher costs of compliance.  Aˇer all, our economic 
recovery is still very uneven, and people and communities are still su˛ering; 
regional banks need to be supported in their e˛orts to encourage the type 
 
of activity that fosters local economic growth.
xxxiECONOMY Œ THE BEST OF TIMES AND THE WORST OF TIMES 
As focused as one must be on the bank™s business and internal operations, 
one must not forget the larger economy which we are chartered to serve. 
 For some, it is true; the economy has turned, at least for now. To an extent, 
the ˝nancial crisis may seem like a faded memory. On an annualized basis, 

U.S. real GDP growth has topped the 3% long-term average in four of the 
past six quarters Œ the strongest period of sustained growth since 2006. 
 U.S. private sector employers created 2.5 million jobs in 2014 Œ the strongest 

year-over-year increase since 1999. ˚e low interest rate environment 

established by the Federal Reserve, along with the e˛orts of ordinary 
 people trying to minimize their ˝nancial risk, have reduced household 
 debt service burdens to generational lows.

 Despite these ostensibly positive trends, for far too many 
 Americans the recovery is something about which they read Œ a 

phenomenon a˛ecting other people in other places. While metropolitan 

areas are doing much better, rural areas continue to struggle. Over the 
past decade, U.S. employment growth has varied widely between larger 
urban areas and rural communities. Collectively, U.S. metropolitan areas 

experienced a 12% increase in private sector employment from 2003-2013 

while non-metropolitan areas recorded just a 5.4% gain. ˚is trend can 
 also be seen in upstate New York, where from January 2003 to November 
2014, private employment in metropolitan areas rose by 2.5% compared 
 
to just a 0.2% increase in non-metropolitan areas.
xxxii More worrisome is the impact of the current, uneven recovery 
 on the economy™s future. Tomorrow™s generation faces a number of 
headwinds that will forestall their ability to contribute to the next wave 
of economic growth. Aggregate student loan debt stands at more than 

$1.1 trillion, trailing only mortgage debt as the largest form of consumer 
indebtedness. One consequence of this rising student debt burden is 
deferment of home ownership Œ the percentage of 18-to-34 year olds who 

own homes has continued to decline and stands at 13% compared to over 
17% before the crisis.
 Contrary to their portrayals in popular media as a group of 
swashbuckling entrepreneurs, Millennials have actually become less 
 inclined to launch new businesses Œ the percentage of business owners in 
that demographic has not been this low since the early nineties. Since 2007, 

the average net worth of those under 30 has fallen by almost half. Young 

people who are now entering the workforce with limited professional, 
˝nancial and entrepreneurial opportunities may unfortunately be losing 
the most vital and economically productive years of their lives. It follows, 

then, that the total rate of business creation from 2012 to 2013 continued 
the downward trend that started in 2011. ˚ese are not the signs of the 
kind of America for which we strive and aspire Œ one in which opportunity, 

prosperity and growth are broadly shared.
 It is against such a backdrop that one must weigh the unintended 
consequences of regulation, which burden the institutions that power 
the core of our local economies in America. One cannot question the 
xxxiiiapplicability or utility of these regulations in improving transparency and 
reducing opacity in the ˝nancial services industry. However, there is a need 
for balance, where supervision is commensurate with the complexity of an 
institution™s business model.
 It is hard not to see the situation in this way: regulators, under the 
most extreme sort of pressure from elected o˜cials, train their sights on 
traditional banks, while capital heads elsewhere and with it, the sort of 

risks Dodd-Frank was meant to mitigate. At the same time, the traditional, 
so-called real economy recovers in ˝ts and starts and American businesses 
and consumers struggle to get the credit they need. M&T has been and 

remains dedicated to serving those credit needs. Doing so will depend, in 
part, on a supportive regulatory environment, one that is simpler and more 
predictable, tailored for di˛erent types of banks, and premised on a balance 

between costs and bene˝ts Œ not for banks or banking but, rather, for the 

American economy as a whole. ˚e time has come to allow America™s 
community banks to serve their traditional roles of taking deposits and 
making prudent loans to the friends and neighbors they know, and not 

allow misplaced animus and a one-size-˝ts-all approach to regulation to 
hinder the American economic recovery ˝nally underway.
 In thinking about the banking industry in the overall context 
 of the economy, we should pause to remind ourselves of history. Just as 
John Maynard Keynes presciently saw that the draconian terms of the 
Treaty of Versailles could be the harbingers of international instability Œ 
and which opened a Pandora™s Box from which came economic stagnation, 
xxxiv
hyperin˙ation and social instability Œ so must we be open to similar 
possibilities when it comes to ˝nancial regulation. An overly harsh 
undi˛erentiated response could plant the seeds of new problems. As a 
 long time banker, I am hopeful for a return to an intelligible milieu where 
banks are able to energetically ful˝ll their roles as facilitators of commerce 
and of the quality of life in the local communities across our country.
 ˚ose of us in the industry share the common goal of legislators and 
regulators, to create the safest ˝nancial system in the world. It pains me to 
see excessive regulation that might sti˙e innovation, drive society™s best and 
brightest away from our industry or discourage bankers from ful˝lling their 

role in the economy out of fear of being inordinately ˝ned and sanctioned. 
Much of what has been done is right, but it can be made better and more 
e˛ective. ˚e whole system will be better o˛ if all constituents can get past 

their entrenched positions to just ﬁmake it right.ﬂ
OUR COLLEAGUES
Once again, the 15,782 M&T employees I™m proud to call colleagues 

demonstrated an ability to adapt to changing circumstances and rise up 
 to conquer new challenges. We asked more of our employees than ever 
before and they delivered in a way that inspires awe, gratitude and respect. 

A talented legion of veteran M&T colleagues aided by a corps of newly 
hired reinforcements worked tirelessly to build a better M&T, oˇen working 
late into the night or through to the morning no matter the day of the 

week. Even a historic November storm that battered our home market just 
before ˚anksgiving, dumping almost eight feet of snow in some of our 
xxxvcommunities and rendering roads impassable, could not keep employees 
from the o˜ce Œ dozens of the dedicated stayed in downtown hotel rooms 
and made sure the work got done, not because they were asked to, but 
because they have a deep, inspiring sense of personal responsibility.

 Of course, our colleagues™ extraordinary e˛orts were not limited 
to the o˜ce. We refer here to their commitment, as citizen volunteers 

and leaders, in our communities. Time and again, they band together to 

help friends and neighbors Œ through work in schools, churches, civic 
organizations, environmental initiatives and many more organizations too 
numerous to list. ˚e colleagues whom I thank here do not understand 

such service as a burden, nor as unrelated to their ordinary activities Œ it 
is a part of who they are and what they do. ˚eir sel˙ess work de˝nes our 
company and goes to the heart of what M&T is and will continue to be: 

a community bank predicated upon the notion of the collective success 
of our clients and our colleagues. ˚ey are the face of our bank Œ for our 
customers and for our communities. ˚ey act as owners Œ in no small part 

because many are Œ and their sense of ownership is evident in the quality 

of and dedication to their work.
A PERSONAL NOTEFollowing the Annual Meeting of the Shareholders on April 21, 2015, 
 Jorge G. Pereira will retire as the Vice Chairman of the Boards of Directors 

of M&T Bank Corporation and M&T Bank. I would be remiss not to o˛er 
my special thanks to Jorge for his service. Jorge joined the boards of what 
were then known as First Empire State Corporation and M&T Bank with 
xxxvi
me in 1982, and although not an employee or member of management, 
he has been my close partner and colleague over the past 33 years. At the 
beginning of that partnership, it was his faith in me that helped provide 
the combination of con˝dence and guidance that I needed in my new role 

as chief executive. Over the years, I was fortunate to be able to rely on his 
judgment and wisdom; he helped to shape and re˝ne our vision of M&T 
as a bank whose business would be built on communities and customers, 

employees and shareholders. In his service on the boards, Jorge gave of his 
time in a wide range of roles. As M&T™s largest individual, non-management 
shareholder, Jorge added an independent voice to the board™s consideration of 

executive compensation and corporate governance matters, while serving as 
the lead independent director. We have been supremely fortunate to draw on 
Jorge™s advice and guidance, not least during the challenging years of the past 

decade. We extend our heartfelt gratitude for his long service, wise counsel 
and valuable contributions to the success of this company. I will miss him 
 as a colleague Œ but continue to cherish him as a friend.
Robert G. Wilmers
 Chairman of the Board
 and Chief Executive O˜cer
February 20, 2015
xxxvii
OFFICERSRobert G. Wilmers
 Chairman of the Board 
 
and Chief Executive O˜cer
Mark J. Czarnecki
 President and Chief 
 
Operating O˜cer
Robert J. Bojdak
 Executive Vice President 
 
and Chief Credit O˜cer
Stephen J. Braunscheidel
 Executive Vice President
William J. Farrell II
 Executive Vice President
Richard S. Gold
 Executive Vice President 
 
and Chief Risk O˜cer
Brian E. Hickey
 Executive Vice President
René F. Jones
 Executive Vice President 
 
and Chief Financial O˜cer
Darren J. King
 Executive Vice President
Gino A. Martocci
Executive Vice President
Kevin J. Pearson
 Executive Vice President 
Michele D. Trolli
 Executive Vice President and 
 
Chief Information O˜cer
D. Scott N. Warman
 Executive Vice President
 and Treasurer
John L. D™Angelo
 Senior Vice President 
 
and General Auditor
Drew J. P˝rrman
 Senior Vice President 
 
and General Counsel
Michael R. Spychala
 Senior Vice President 
 
and Controller
DIRECTORSRobert G. Wilmers
 Chairman of the Board 
 
and Chief Executive O˜cer
Jorge G. Pereira
 Vice Chairman of the Board 

Private Investor
Brent D. Baird
 Private Investor
C. Angela Bontempo
 Former President and 
 
Chief Executive O˜cer
 
Saint Vincent Health System
Robert T. Brady
 Former Executive Chairman 

Moog Inc.
T. Je˛erson Cunningham III
 Former Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive O˜cer
 
Premier National Bancorp, Inc.
Mark J. Czarnecki
 President and Chief 
 
Operating O˜cer
Gary N. Geisel
 Former Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive O˜cer
 
Provident Bankshares Corporation
John D. Hawke, Jr.
 Senior Counsel
 
Arnold & Porter LLP
Patrick W.E. Hodgson
 President
 Cinnamon Investments Limited
Richard G. King
 Chairman of the 
 Executive Committee
 
Utz Quality Foods, Inc.
Melinda R. Rich
 Vice Chairman
 Rich Products Corporation 
 
and President 
 
Rich Entertainment Group
Robert E. Sadler, Jr.
 Former President and 
 
Chief Executive O˜cer
 
M&T Bank Corporation
Herbert L. Washington
 President
 H.L.W. Fast Track, Inc.
M&T BANK CORPORATION
Officers and Directorsxxxviii
M&T BANK 
Officers and DirectorsOFFICERSRobert G. Wilmers
 Chairman of the Board 
 
and Chief Executive O˜cer
Mark J. Czarnecki
 President and Chief 
 
Operating O˜cer
Vice Chairmen
Richard S. Gold 
 René F. Jones
 
Kevin J. Pearson
Executive Vice Presidents
Robert J. Bojdak
 Stephen J. Braunscheidel
 
Janet M. Coletti
 John F. Cook
 William J. Farrell II 
 
Mark A. Graham
 
Brian E. Hickey
 
Darren J. King
 
Gino A. Martocci
 
Michael J. Todaro
 
Michele D. Trolli 
 
D. Scott N. Warman
Senior Vice Presidents
Je˛rey L. Barbeau
 Carol H. Bartosz
 
John M. Beeson, Jr.
 
Keith M. Belanger
 
Deborah A. Bennett
 
Peter M. Black
 
Daniel M. Boscarino
 
Ira A. Brown
 
Daniel J. Burns
 Nicholas L. Buscaglia
 Noel Carroll
 Mark I. Cartwright
 
David K. Chamberlain
 
August J. Chiasera
 
Jerome W. Collier
 
Cynthia L. Corliss
 
R. Joe Crosswhite
 
John L. D™Angelo
 
Peter G. D™Arcy
 
Carol A. Dalton
 
Ayan DasGupta
 
Shelley C. Drake
 
Michael A. Drury
 
Gary D. Dudish
 
Donald I. Dussing, Jr.
 
Peter J. Eliopoulos
 Ralph W. Emerson, Jr.
 Je˛rey A. Evershed
 Tari L. Flannery
 
James M. Frank
 
R. S. Fraundorf
 Timothy E. Gillespie
 Robert S. Graber
 
Sam Guerrieri, Jr.
 
Harish A. Holla
 
Neil Hosty
 
Carl W. Jordan
 Michael T. Keegan
 
Nicholas P. Lambrow
 
Michele V. Langdon
 
Lon P. LeClair
 
Robert G. Loughrey
 
Alfred F. Luhr III
 
Rex P. Macey
 
Christopher R. Madel
 
Paula Mandell
 Louis P. Mathews, Jr.
 
Richard J. McCarthy
 
Donna McClure
 
William McKenna
 
Mark J. Mendel
 
Christopher R. Morphew
 
Michael S. Murchie
 
Allen J. Naples
 Drew J. P˝rrman
 Eileen M. Pirson
 
Paul T. Pitman
 Michael J. Quinlivan
 
Christopher D. Randall
 
Daniel J. Ripienski
 
John F. Robbins
 
M. Julieta Ross
 
Anthony M. Roth
 
John P. Rumschik
 
Charles Russella, Jr.
 
Mahesh Sankaran
 
Jack D. Sawyer
 
Jean-Christophe Schroeder
 
Susan F. Sciarra
 
Douglas A. Sheline
 
Michael J. Shryne
 Sabeth Siddique
 Glenn R. Small
 
Philip M. Smith
 
Deepa Soni
 
Michael R. Spychala
 
David W. Stender
 
Kemp C. Stickney
 
John R. Taylor
 
Christopher E. Tolomeo
 
Patrick M. Trainor
 
Scott B. Vahue
 Michael P. Wallace
 Linda J. Weinberg
 
Je˛rey A. Wellington
 
Tracy S. Woodrow
DIRECTORSRobert G. Wilmers
 Chairman of the Board
 
and Chief Executive O˜cer
Jorge G. Pereira
 Vice Chairman of the Board
 
Private Investor
Brent D. Baird
 Private Investor
C. Angela Bontempo
 Former President and 
 
Chief Executive O˜cer
 
Saint Vincent Health System
Robert T. Brady
 Former Executive Chairman
 
Moog Inc.
T. Je˛erson Cunningham III
 Former Chairman of the Board 
 
and Chief Executive O˜cer
 
Premier National Bancorp, Inc.
Mark J. Czarnecki
 President and Chief 
 
Operating O˜cer
Gary N. Geisel
 Former Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive O˜cer
 
Provident Bankshares Corporation
John D. Hawke, Jr.
 Senior Counsel
 
Arnold & Porter LLP
Patrick W.E. Hodgson
 President 
 Cinnamon Investments Limited
Richard G. King
 Chairman of the 
 
Executive Committee
 
Utz Quality Foods, Inc.
Melinda R. Rich
 
Vice Chairman 
 
Rich Products Corporation 
 and President
 Rich Entertainment Group 
Robert E. Sadler, Jr.
 Former President and 
 
Chief Executive O˜cer
 
M&T Bank Corporation
Herbert L. Washington
 President
 H.L.W. Fast Track, Inc.
xxxixREGIONAL PRESIDENTSJe˛rey A. Wellington
 Western New York
Allen J. Naples
 Central New York
Stephen A. Foreman
 Central/Western Pennsylvania
Robert H. Newton, Jr.
 Central Virginia
Nicholas P. Lambrow
 Delaware
August J. Chiasera
 Baltimore and Chesapeake
Peter M. Black
Greater Washington 
Michael T. Keegan
Albany/Hudson Valley North 
Peter G. D™Arcy
 New York City/Long Island
Philip H. Johnson
 Northern Pennsylvania 
Ira A. Brown
 Philadelphia 
Daniel J. Burns
 Rochester
Peter G. Newman
 Southern New York
R. Joe Crosswhite
 Southeast Pennsylvania
 Paula Mandell 
Tarrytown/New Jersey
DIRECTORS ADVISORY COUNCILS
N˜˚ Y˛˝˙ Sˆˇˆ˜
Central New York Division
Aminy I. Audi
James V. Breuer
Carl V. Byrne
 Mara Charlamb
 Richard W. Cook
 
James A. Fox

Richard R. Gri˜th
Robert H. Linn
Nicholas O. Matt
 Margaret O™Connell
 M. Catherine Richardson

Richard J. Zick
Hudson Valley Division
Elizabeth P. Allen
Kevin M. Bette
Nancy E. Carey Cassidy
T. Je˛erson Cunningham III

Michael H. Graham
Christopher Madden
William Murphy
Lewis J. Ruge
Albert K. Smiley

Archibald A. Smith III
 ˚omas G. Struzzieri
Charles C. Tallardy III

Peter Van Kleeck
Alan Yassky
Jamestown Division
Sebastian A. Baggiano
John R. Churchill
 Steven A. Godfrey

Joseph C. Johnson
Stan Lundine
Kim Peterson

Allen Short
 Michael J. Wellman
New York City/Long Island 
Division
Earle S. Altman
Jay I. Anderson

Brent D. Baird
Louis Brause
Patrick J. Callan

Anthony J. Dowd
Lloyd M. Goldman
Peter Hauspurg

Gary Jacob
 Mickey Rabina
 Don M. Randel
Michael D. Sullivan
Alair A. Townsend
Rochester Division
William A. Buckingham
 R. Carlos Carballada

Timothy D. Fournier
 Jocelyn Goldberg-Schaible
 Laurence Kessler

Anne M. Kress
Joseph M. Lobozzo II
 Mark S. Peterson
Carolyn A. Portanova
John K. Purcell

Victor E. Salerno
Derace L. Scha˛er
Amy L. Tait

Linda Cornell Weinstein
Southern New York Division
George Akel, Jr.
 Daniel R. Babcock
Lee P. Bearsch

Richard J. Cole
 Joseph W. Donze
 Albert Nocciolino
Robert R. Sprole III
 Frank H. Suits, Jr.

Terry R. Wood
Pˇ/Dˇ˚ˇ˝˜ /
 Mˇ˝/ Vˇ /
 Wˆ Vˇ
Baltimore-Washington 
 Division
˚omas S. Bozzuto
 Daniel J. Canzoniero
 Robert A. Chrencik
 Je˛rey S. Detwiler
 Scott E. Dorsey
 
Steve Dubin
 Kevin R. Dunbar
 Gary N. Geisel
 
John F. Jaeger
 Warner P. Mason
 ˚omas R. Mullen
 
John H. Phelps
 Marc B. Terrill
Central 
 Pennsylvania Division
Christopher M. Cicconi
Mark X. DiSanto
 
Rolen E. Ferris
Martin G. Lane, Jr.
Ronald M. Leitzel

John P. Massimilla
 Craig J. Nitterhouse
 Ivo V. Otto III 
 William F. Rothman
Lynn C. Rotz 
 
Herbert E. Sandifer
John D. Sheridan

Frank R. Sourbeer
 Daniel K. Sunderland
 
Sondra Wolfe Elias
Central Virginia Division
Toni R. Ardabell
 Otis L. Brown
 Robert J. Clark
 Daniel Loˇis
 Bart H. Mitchell
 Robert Wayne Ohly, Jr.
 
Michael Patrick
Charles W. Payne, Jr.
 Brian R. Pitney
 Frank L. Robinson

Katheryn E. Surface Burks
 
Debbie L. Sydow
Chesapeake Upper 
 Shore Division
Richard Bernstein
Hugh E. Grunden
William W. McAllister, Jr.

Lee McMahan
Chesapeake Lower 
 Shore Division
Michael G. Abercrombie, Jr.
John H. Harrison

John M. McClellan
James F. Morris
John M. Stern
Eastern 
 Pennsylvania Division
Paul J. Datte
Richard E. Fehr
Steven I. Field
Roy A. Heim

Donald E. Jacobs
Joseph H. Jones, Jr.
David C. Laudeman

Eric M. Mika
Stephen M. Moyer
 Jeanne Boyer Porter

Robert P. Powell
 Greg Allen Stewart
Larry A. Wittig
Northeast 
 Mid-Atlantic Division
Richard Alter
Clarence C. Boyle, Jr.

Nicole A. Funk
James Lambdin
˚omas C. Mottley

Paul T. Muddiman
John D. Pursell, Jr.
John ˚omas Sadowski, Jr.
Kimberly L. Wagner
Craig A. Ward
Northeastern 
 Pennsylvania Division
Richard S. Bishop
Christopher L. Borton
Maureen M. Bufalino
Stephen N. Clemente
Robert Gill
˚omas F. Torbik

Murray Ug
Northern 
 Pennsylvania Division
Sherwin O. Albert, Jr.
Je˛rey A. Cerminaro
Cli˛ord R. Coldren
James E. Douthat
Charlene A. Friedman
Steven P. Johnson
Kenneth R. Levitzky
Robert E. More

John D. Rinehart
J. David Smith
Donald E. Stringfellow

Paul M. Walison
Philadelphia Division
Steven A. Berger
Edward M. D™Alba
 Linda Ann Galante
 
Ruth S. Gehring
 Eli A. Kahn
 Mark Nicoletti
Robert N. Reeves, Jr.
Robert W. Sorrell

Steven L. Sugarman
Christina Wagoner
Western 
 Pennsylvania Division
Jodi L. Cessna
Paul I. Detweiler III
Philip E. Devorris

Michael A. Fiore
Joseph A. Grappone
Daniel R. Lawruk
Gerald E. Murray
Robert F. Pennington

Joseph S. Sheetz
William T. Ward
J. Douglas Wolf 
M&T BANK 
Regional Management and Directors Advisory Councils
xlSEC FORM 10-KUNITEDSTATESSECURITIESANDEXCHANGECOMMISSION
Washington,D.C.20549
Form10-K
ÍANNUALREPORTPURSUANTTOSECTION13OR15(d)
OFTHESECURITIESEXCHANGEACTOF1934
ForthefiscalyearendedDecember31,2014
or‘TRANSITIONREPORTPURSUANTTOSECTION13OR15(d)
OFTHESECURITIESEXCHANGEACTOF1934
Commissionfilenumber1-9861
M&TBANKCORPORATION
(Exactnameofregistrantasspecifiedinitscharter)
NewYork16-0968385
(Stateofincorporation)(I.R.S.EmployerIdentificationNo.)
OneM&TPlaza,Buffalo,NewYork14203
(Addressofprincipalexecutiveoffices)(ZipCode)
Registrant™stelephonenumber,includingareacode:
716-635-4000SecuritiesregisteredpursuanttoSection12(b)oftheAct:
TitleofEachClass
NameofEachExchangeonWhichRegistered
CommonStock,$.50parvalueNewYorkStockExchange
6.375%CumulativePerpetualPreferredStock,
SeriesA,$1,000liquidationpreferencepershare
NewYorkStockExchange
6.375%CumulativePerpetualPreferredStock,
SeriesC,$1,000liquidationpreferencepershare
NewYorkStockExchange
WarrantstopurchasesharesofCommonStock
(expiringDecember23,2018)
NewYorkStockExchange
SecuritiesregisteredpursuanttoSection12(g)oftheAct:
8.234%CapitalSecuritiesofM&TCapitalTrustI
(andtheGuaranteeofM&TBankCorporationwithrespectthereto)
(Titleofclass)
8.234%JuniorSubordinatedDebenturesof
M&TBankCorporation
(Titleofclass)
Indicatebycheckmarkiftheregistrantisawell-knownseasonedissuer,asdefinedinRule405oftheSecurities
Act.Yes
ÍNo‘IndicatebycheckmarkiftheregistrantisnotrequiredtofilereportspursuanttoSection13orSection15(d)ofthe
Act.Yes
‘NoÍIndicatebycheckmarkwhethertheregistrant(1)hasfiledallreportsrequiredtobefiledbySection13or15(d)oftheSecurities
ExchangeActof1934duringthepreceding12months,and(2)hasbeensubjecttosuchfilingrequirementsforthepast

90days.Yes
ÍNo‘IndicatebycheckmarkwhethertheregistranthassubmittedelectronicallyandpostedonitscorporateWebsite,ifany,every
InteractiveDataFilerequiredtobesubmittedandpostedpursuanttoRule405ofRegulationS-Tduringthepreceding12months(or

forsuchshorterperiodthattheregistrantwasrequiredtosubmitandpostsuchfiles).Yes
ÍNo‘IndicatebycheckmarkifdisclosureofdelinquentfilerspursuanttoItem405ofRegulationS-Kisnotcontainedherein,andwill
notbecontained,tothebestofregistrant™sknowledge,indefinitiveproxyorinformationstatementsincorporatedbyreferenceinPart

IIIofthisForm10-KoranyamendmenttothisForm10-K.
‘Indicatebycheckmarkwhethertheregistrantisalargeacceleratedfiler,anacceleratedfiler,anon-acceleratedfiler,orasmaller
reportingcompany.Seethedefinitionsofﬁlargeacceleratedfiler,ﬂﬁacceleratedfiler,ﬂandﬁsmallerreportingcompanyﬂinRule12b-2

oftheExchangeAct.(Checkone):
Largeacceleratedfiler
ÍAcceleratedfiler
‘Non-acceleratedfiler
‘Smallerreportingcompany
‘(Donotcheckifasmallerreportingcompany)
Indicatebycheckmarkwhethertheregistrantisashellcompany(asdefinedinRule12b-2ofthe
Act).Yes
‘NoÍAggregatemarketvalueoftheCommonStock,$0.50parvalue,heldbynon-affiliatesoftheregistrant,computedbyreferenceto
theclosingpriceasofthecloseofbusinessonJune30,2014:$14,427,352,292.
NumberofsharesoftheCommonStock,$0.50parvalue,outstandingasofthecloseofbusinessonFebruary13,2015:
132,912,535shares.
DocumentsIncorporatedByReference:
(1)PortionsoftheProxyStatementforthe2015AnnualMeetingofShareholdersofM&TBankCorporationinPartsIIandIII.
M&TBANKCORPORATION
Form10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2014
CROSS-REFERENCESHEET
Form10-K
PagePARTI
Item1.Business
.......................................................4
StatisticaldisclosurepursuanttoGuide3
I.Distributionofassets,liabilities,andshareholders™equity;interestrates
andinterestdifferential
A.Averagebalancesheets
...................................47
B.Interestincome/expenseandresultingyieldorrateonaverage
interest-earningassets(includingnon-accrualloans)andinterest-

bearingliabilities
........................................47
C.Rate/volumevariances
...................................23
II.Investmentportfolio
A.Year-endbalances
.......................................21,109B.Maturityscheduleandweightedaverageyield
.................79
C.Aggregatecarryingvalueofsecuritiesthatexceedtenpercentof
shareholders™equity
......................................110
III.Loanportfolio
A.Year-endbalances
.......................................21,113
B.Maturitiesandsensitivitiestochangesininterestrates
..........77
C.Riskelements
Nonaccrual,pastdueandrenegotiatedloans
.................60,
115-119Actualandproformainterestoncertainloans.
...............115,123Nonaccrualpolicy
.......................................104,105Loanconcentrations
.....................................69
IV.Summaryofloanlossexperience
A.Analysisoftheallowanceforloanlosses
.....................58,120-125Factorsinfluencingmanagement™sjudgmentconcerningthe
adequacyoftheallowanceandprovision
.....................57-69,105,120-125
B.Allocationoftheallowanceforloanlosses
....................68,120,124-125V.Deposits
A.Averagebalancesandrates
................................47
B.Maturityscheduleofdomestictimedepositswithbalancesof
$100,000ormore
........................................80
VI.Returnonequityandassets
.....................................23,42,83,85VII.Short-termborrowings
.........................................129
Item1A.RiskFactors
..................................................23-32Item1B.UnresolvedStaffComments.
....................................32
Item2.Properties
...................................................32-33Item3.LegalProceedings
.............................................33
Item4.MineSafetyDisclosures
........................................33
ExecutiveOfficersoftheRegistrant
...............................34-35
PARTII
Item5.MarketforRegistrant™sCommonEquity,RelatedStockholderMatters
andIssuerPurchasesofEquitySecurities
..........................35-38A.Principalmarket
........................................35
Marketprices
...........................................93
B.Approximatenumberofholdersatyear-end
..................21
2Form10-K
PageC.Frequencyandamountofdividendsdeclared
.................22-23,93,102
D.Restrictionsondividends
.................................9-14E.Securitiesauthorizedforissuanceunderequitycompensation
plans..................................................35-36F.Performancegraph
......................................37
G.Repurchasesofcommonstock
.............................38
Item6.SelectedFinancialData
........................................38
A.Selectedconsolidatedyear-endbalances
.....................21
B.Consolidatedearnings,etc.
................................22
Item7.Management™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionand
ResultsofOperations
..........................................38-94Item7A.QuantitativeandQualitativeDisclosuresAboutMarketRisk
..........95
Item8.FinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData
.....................95
A.ReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReporting
..........96
B.ReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm
......97
C.ConsolidatedBalanceSheetŠDecember31,2014and2013
....98
D.ConsolidatedStatementofIncomeŠYearsendedDecember31,
2014,2013and2012
.....................................99
E.ConsolidatedStatementofComprehensiveIncomeŠYears
endedDecember31,2014,2013and2012
....................100
F.ConsolidatedStatementofCashFlowsŠYearsendedDecember
31,2014,2013and2012
..................................101
G.ConsolidatedStatementofChangesinShareholders™EquityŠ
YearsendedDecember31,2014,2013and2012
...............102
H.NotestoFinancialStatements
.............................103-169I.QuarterlyTrends
........................................93
Item9.ChangesinandDisagreementswithAccountantsonAccountingand
FinancialDisclosure
...........................................170
Item9A.ControlsandProcedures
.......................................170
A.Conclusionsofprincipalexecutiveofficerandprincipalfinancial
officerregardingdisclosurecontrolsandprocedures
...........170
B.Management™sannualreportoninternalcontroloverfinancial
reporting..............................................170
C.Attestationreportoftheregisteredpublicaccountingfirm
......170
D.Changesininternalcontroloverfinancialreporting
...........170
Item9B.OtherInformation
............................................170
PARTIII
Item10.Directors,ExecutiveOfficersandCorporateGovernance
.............170
Item11.ExecutiveCompensation
.......................................170
Item12.SecurityOwnershipofCertainBeneficialOwnersandManagementand
RelatedStockholderMatters
....................................171
Item13.CertainRelationshipsandRelatedTransactions,andDirector
Independence................................................171
Item14.PrincipalAccountantFeesandServices
............................171
PARTIV
Item15.ExhibitsandFinancialStatementSchedules
........................171
SIGNATURES.........................................................172-173EXHIBITINDEX
.......................................................174-1763PARTI
Item1.
Business.M&TBankCorporation(ﬁRegistrantﬂorﬁM&Tﬂ)isaNewYorkbusinesscorporationwhichisregisteredas
afinancialholdingcompanyundertheBankHoldingCompanyActof1956,asamended(ﬁBHCAﬂ)andas

abankholdingcompany(ﬁBHCﬂ)underArticleIII-AoftheNewYorkBankingLaw(ﬁBankingLawﬂ).The

principalexecutiveofficesofM&TarelocatedatOneM&TPlaza,Buffalo,NewYork14203.M&Twas

incorporatedinNovember1969.M&Tanditsdirectandindirectsubsidiariesarecollectivelyreferredto

hereinastheﬁCompany.ﬂAsofDecember31,2014theCompanyhadconsolidatedtotalassetsof$96.7

billion,depositsof$73.6billionandshareholders™equityof$12.3billion.TheCompanyhad14,609full-

timeand1,173part-timeemployeesasofDecember31,2014.
AtDecember31,2014,M&Thadtwowhollyownedbanksubsidiaries:M&TBankandWilmington
Trust,NationalAssociation(ﬁWilmingtonTrust,N.A.ﬂ).Thebankscollectivelyofferawiderangeofretail

andcommercialbanking,trustandwealthmanagement,andinvestmentservicestotheircustomers.At

December31,2014,M&TBankrepresented99%ofconsolidatedassetsoftheCompany.
TheCompanyfromtimetotimeconsidersacquiringbanks,thriftinstitutions,branchofficesof
banksorthriftinstitutions,orotherbusinesseswithinmarketscurrentlyservedbytheCompanyorinother

locationsthatwouldcomplementtheCompany™sbusinessoritsgeographicreach.TheCompanyhas

pursuedacquisitionopportunitiesinthepast,continuestoreviewdifferentopportunities,includingthe

possibilityofmajoracquisitions,andintendstocontinuethispractice.
SubsidiariesM&TBankisabankingcorporationthatisincorporatedunderthelawsoftheStateofNewYork.M&T

BankisamemberoftheFederalReserveSystemandtheFederalHomeLoanBankSystem,anditsdeposits

areinsuredbytheFederalDepositInsuranceCorporation(ﬁFDICﬂ)uptoapplicablelimits.M&Tacquired

alloftheissuedandoutstandingsharesofthecapitalstockofM&TBankinDecember1969.Thestockof

M&TBankrepresentsamajorassetofM&T.M&TBankoperatesunderachartergrantedbytheStateof

NewYorkin1892,andthecontinuityofitsbankingbusinessistracedtotheorganizationofthe

ManufacturersandTradersBankin1856.TheprincipalexecutiveofficesofM&TBankarelocatedatOne

M&TPlaza,Buffalo,NewYork14203.AsofDecember31,2014,M&TBankhad693domesticbanking

officeslocatedinNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,Delaware,Virginia,WestVirginia,andthe

DistrictofColumbia,afull-servicecommercialbankingofficeinOntario,Canada,andanofficeinGeorge

Town,CaymanIslands.AsofDecember31,2014,M&TBankhadconsolidatedtotalassetsof$95.9billion,

depositsof$74.8billionandshareholder™sequityof$11.5billion.ThedepositliabilitiesofM&TBankare

insuredbytheFDICthroughitsDepositInsuranceFund(ﬁDIFﬂ).Asacommercialbank,M&TBankoffers

abroadrangeoffinancialservicestoadiversebaseofconsumers,businesses,professionalclients,

governmentalentitiesandfinancialinstitutionslocatedinitsmarkets.Lendingislargelyfocusedon

consumersresidinginNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,Virginia,DelawareandWashington,D.C.,

andonsmallandmedium-sizebusinessesbasedinthoseareas,althoughloansareoriginatedthrough

lendingofficesinotherstatesandinOntario,Canada.Inaddition,theCompanyconductslendingactivities

invariousstatesthroughothersubsidiaries.TrustandotherfiduciaryservicesareofferedbyM&TBankand

throughitswhollyownedsubsidiary,WilmingtonTrustCompany.M&TBankandcertainofitssubsidiaries

alsooffercommercialmortgageloanssecuredbyincomeproducingpropertiesorpropertiesusedby

borrowersinatradeorbusiness.Additionalfinancialservicesareprovidedthroughotheroperating

subsidiariesoftheCompany.
WilmingtonTrust,N.A.,anationalbankingassociationandamemberoftheFederalReserveSystem
andtheFDIC,commencedoperationsonOctober2,1995.ThedepositliabilitiesofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.

areinsuredbytheFDICthroughtheDIF.ThemainofficeofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.islocatedat1100

NorthMarketStreet,Wilmington,Delaware,19890.WilmingtonTrust,N.A.offersvarioustrustandwealth

managementservices.Historically,WilmingtonTrust,N.A.offeredselecteddepositandloanproductsona

nationwidebasis,throughdirectmail,telephonemarketingtechniquesandtheInternet.AsofDecember31,

2014,WilmingtonTrust,N.A.hadtotalassetsof$2.8billion,depositsof$2.2billionandshareholder™s

equityof$436million.
WilmingtonTrustCompany,awhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&TBank,wasincorporatedasa
DelawarebankandtrustcompanyinMarch1901andamendeditscharterinJuly2011tobecomea

nondepositorytrustcompany.WilmingtonTrustCompanyprovidesavarietyofDelawarebasedtrust,
4fiduciaryandcustodialservicestoitsclients.AsofDecember31,2014,WilmingtonTrustCompanyhad
totalassetsof$1.0billionandshareholder™sequityof$542million.RevenuesofWilmingtonTrust

Companywere$116millionin2014.TheheadquartersofWilmingtonTrustCompanyarelocatedat1100

NorthMarketStreet,Wilmington,Delaware19890.
M&TLifeInsuranceCompany(ﬁM&TLifeInsuranceﬂ),awhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&T,was
incorporatedasanArizonabusinesscorporationinJanuary1984.M&TLifeInsuranceisacreditreinsurer

whichreinsurescreditlifeandaccidentandhealthinsurancepurchasedbytheCompany™sconsumerloan

customers.AsofDecember31,2014,M&TLifeInsurancehadassetsof$17millionandshareholder™sequity

of$16million.M&TLifeInsurancerecordedrevenuesof$421thousandduring2014.Headquartersof

M&TLifeInsurancearelocatedat101NorthFirstAvenue,Phoenix,Arizona85003.
M&TInsuranceAgency,Inc.(ﬁM&TInsuranceAgencyﬂ),awhollyownedinsuranceagency
subsidiaryofM&TBank,wasincorporatedasaNewYorkcorporationinMarch1955.M&TInsurance

Agencyprovidesinsuranceagencyservicesprincipallytothecommercialmarket.AsofDecember31,2014,

M&TInsuranceAgencyhadassetsof$29millionandshareholder™sequityof$15million.M&TInsurance

Agencyrecordedrevenuesof$28millionduring2014.TheheadquartersofM&TInsuranceAgencyare

locatedat285DelawareAvenue,Buffalo,NewYork14202.
M&TMortgageReinsuranceCompany,Inc.(ﬁM&TReinsuranceﬂ),awhollyownedsubsidiaryof
M&TBank,wasincorporatedasaVermontbusinesscorporationinJuly1999.M&TReinsuranceentersinto

reinsurancecontractswithinsurancecompanieswhoinsureagainsttheriskofamortgageborrower™s

paymentdefaultinconnectionwithM&TBank-relatedmortgageloans.M&TReinsurancereceivesashare

ofthepremiumforthosepoliciesinexchangeforacceptingaportionoftheinsurer™sriskofborrower

default.AsofDecember31,2014,M&TReinsurancehadassetsof$17millionandshareholder™sequityof

$14million.M&TReinsurancerecordedapproximately$1millionofrevenueduring2014.M&T

Reinsurance™sprincipalandregisteredofficeisat148CollegeStreet,Burlington,Vermont05401.
M&TRealEstateTrust(ﬁM&TRealEstateﬂ)isaMarylandRealEstateInvestmentTrustthatwas
formedthroughthemergeroftwoseparatesubsidiaries,buttracesitsorigintotheincorporationofM&T

RealEstate,Inc.inJuly1995.M&TRealEstateengagesincommercialrealestatelendingandprovidesloan

servicingtoM&TBank.AsofDecember31,2014,M&TRealEstatehadassetsof$19.1billion,common

shareholder™sequityof$16.6billion,andpreferredshareholders™equity,consistingof9%fixed-rate

preferredstock(parvalue$1,000),of$1million.Alloftheoutstandingcommonstockand89%ofthe

preferredstockofM&TRealEstateisownedbyM&TBank.Theremaining11%ofM&TRealEstate™s

outstandingpreferredstockisownedbyofficersorformerofficersoftheCompany.M&TRealEstate

recorded$769millionofrevenuein2014.TheheadquartersofM&TRealEstatearelocatedatM&TCenter,

OneFountainPlaza,Buffalo,NewYork14203.
M&TRealtyCapitalCorporation(ﬁM&TRealtyCapitalﬂ),awhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&TBank,
wasincorporatedasaMarylandcorporationinOctober1973.M&TRealtyCapitalengagesinmultifamily

commercialrealestatelendingandprovidesloanservicingtopurchasersoftheloansitoriginates.Asof

December31,2014,M&TRealtyCapitalserviced$11.3billionofcommercialmortgageloansfornon-

affiliatesandhadassetsof$656millionandshareholder™sequityof$115million.M&TRealtyCapital

recordedrevenuesof$90millionin2014.TheheadquartersofM&TRealtyCapitalarelocatedat25South

CharlesStreet,Baltimore,Maryland21202.
M&TSecurities,Inc.(ﬁM&TSecuritiesﬂ)isawhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&TBankthatwas
incorporatedasaNewYorkbusinesscorporationinNovember1985.M&TSecuritiesisregisteredasa

broker/dealerundertheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,asamended,andasaninvestmentadvisorunder

theInvestmentAdvisorsActof1940,asamended(theﬁInvestmentAdvisorsActﬂ).M&TSecuritiesis

licensedasalifeinsuranceagentineachstatewhereM&TBankoperatesbranchofficesandinanumberof

otherstates.Itprovidessecuritiesbrokerage,investmentadvisoryandinsuranceservices.Asof

December31,2014,M&TSecuritieshadassetsof$43millionandshareholder™sequityof$32million.M&T

Securitiesrecorded$106millionofrevenueduring2014.TheheadquartersofM&TSecuritiesarelocatedat

OneM&TPlaza,Buffalo,NewYork14203.
WilmingtonTrustInvestmentAdvisors,Inc.(ﬁWTInvestmentAdvisorsﬂ),awhollyowned
subsidiaryofM&TBank,wasincorporatedasaMarylandcorporationonJune30,1995.WTInvestment

Advisors,aregisteredinvestmentadvisorundertheInvestmentAdvisorsAct,servesasaninvestment

advisortotheWilmingtonFunds,afamilyofproprietarymutualfunds,andinstitutionalclients.Asof

December31,2014,WTInvestmentAdvisorshadassetsof$41millionandshareholder™sequityof$35

million.WTInvestmentAdvisorsrecordedrevenuesof$49millionin2014.TheheadquartersofWT
5InvestmentAdvisorsarelocatedat100EastPrattStreet,Baltimore,Maryland21202.
WilmingtonFundsManagementCorporation(ﬁWilmingtonFundsManagementﬂ)isawholly
ownedsubsidiaryofM&TthatwasincorporatedinSeptember1981asaDelawarecorporation.Wilmington

FundsManagementisregisteredasaninvestmentadvisorundertheInvestmentAdvisorsActandservesas

aninvestmentadvisortotheWilmingtonFunds.WilmingtonFundsManagementhadassetsof$13million

andshareholder™sequityof$12millionasofDecember31,2014.WilmingtonFundsManagementrecorded

revenuesof$18millionin2014.TheheadquartersofWilmingtonFundsManagementarelocatedat1100

NorthMarketStreet,Wilmington,Delaware19890.
WilmingtonTrustInvestmentManagement,LLC(ﬁWTIMﬂ)isawhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&T
andwasincorporatedinDecember2001asaGeorgialimitedliabilitycompany.WTIMisaregistered

investmentadvisorundertheInvestmentAdvisorsActandprovidesinvestmentmanagementservicesto

clients,includingcertainprivatefunds.AsofDecember31,2014,WTIMhasassetsof$25millionand

shareholder™sequityof$25million.WTIMrecordedrevenuesof$6millionin2014.WTIM™sheadquarters

islocatedatTerminus27
thFloor,3280PeachtreeRoadN.E.,Atlanta,Georgia30305.
TheRegistrantanditsbankingsubsidiarieshaveanumberofotherspecial-purposeorinactive
subsidiaries.Theseothersubsidiariesdidnotrepresent,individuallyandcollectively,asignificantportionof

theCompany™sconsolidatedassets,netincomeandshareholders™equityatDecember31,2014.
SegmentInformation,PrincipalProducts/ServicesandForeignOperations
InformationabouttheRegistrant™sbusinesssegmentsisincludedinnote22ofNotestoFinancial

StatementsfiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancialStatementsandSupplementaryDataﬂandisfurther

discussedinPartII,Item7,ﬁManagement™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsof

Operations.ﬂTheRegistrant™sreportablesegmentshavebeendeterminedbaseduponitsinternal

profitabilityreportingsystem,whichisorganizedbystrategicbusinessunit.Certainstrategicbusinessunits

havebeencombinedforsegmentinformationreportingpurposeswherethenatureoftheproductsand

services,thetypeofcustomerandthedistributionofthoseproductsandservicesaresimilar.Thereportable

segmentsareBusinessBanking,CommercialBanking,CommercialRealEstate,DiscretionaryPortfolio,

ResidentialMortgageBankingandRetailBanking.TheCompany™sinternationalactivitiesarediscussedin

note17ofNotestoFinancialStatementsfiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancialStatementsand

SupplementaryData.ﬂ
Theonlyactivitiesthat,asaclass,contributed10%ormoreofthesumofconsolidatedinterest
incomeandotherincomeinanyofthelastthreeyearswereinterestonloansandtrustincome.Theamount

ofincomefromsuchsourcesduringthoseyearsissetforthontheCompany™sConsolidatedStatementof

IncomefiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData.ﬂ
SupervisionandRegulationoftheCompany
M&Tanditssubsidiariesaresubjecttothecomprehensiveregulatoryframeworkapplicabletobankand

financialholdingcompaniesandtheirsubsidiaries.RegulationoffinancialinstitutionssuchasM&Tandits

subsidiariesisintendedprimarilyfortheprotectionofdepositors,theFDIC™sDepositInsuranceFundand

thebankingandfinancialsystemasawhole,andgenerallyisnotintendedfortheprotectionof

shareholders,investorsorcreditorsotherthaninsureddepositors.Describedbelowarematerialelementsof

selectedlawsandregulationsapplicabletoM&Tanditssubsidiaries.Thedescriptionsarenotintendedtobe

completeandarequalifiedintheirentiretybyreferencetothefulltextofthestatutesandregulations

described.OverviewM&TisregisteredwiththeBoardofGovernorsoftheFederalReserveSystem(theﬁFederalReserveBoardﬂ)

asaBHCundertheBHCA.Assuch,M&Tanditssubsidiariesaresubjecttothesupervision,examination

andreportingrequirementsoftheBHCAandtheregulationsoftheFederalReserveBoard.
Ingeneral,theBHCAlimitsthebusinessofaBHCtobanking,managingorcontrollingbanks,and
otheractivitiesthattheFederalReserveBoardhasdeterminedtobesocloselyrelatedtobankingastobea

properincidentthereto.Inaddition,bankholdingcompaniesthatqualifyandelecttobefinancialholding

companiesmayengageinanyactivity,oracquireandretainthesharesofacompanyengagedinanyactivity,

thatiseither(i)financialinnatureorincidentaltosuchfinancialactivity(asdeterminedbytheFederal

ReserveBoard,byregulationororder,inconsultationwiththeSecretaryoftheTreasury)or

(ii)complementarytoafinancialactivityanddoesnotposeasubstantialrisktothesafetyandsoundnessof
6depositoryinstitutionsorthefinancialsystemgenerally(assolelydeterminedbytheFederalReserveBoard).
Activitiesthatarefinancialinnatureincludesecuritiesunderwritinganddealing,insuranceunderwriting

andmakingmerchantbankinginvestments.
Tomaintainfinancialholdingcompanystatus,afinancialholdingcompanyandallofitsdepository
institutionsubsidiariesmustbeﬁwellcapitalizedﬂandﬁwellmanaged.ﬂM&Tbecameafinancialholding

companyonMarch1,2011.Thefailuretomeetsuchrequirementscouldresultinmaterialrestrictionson

theactivitiesofM&TandmayalsoadverselyaffecttheCompany™sabilitytoenterintocertaintransactions

orobtainnecessaryapprovalsinconnectiontherewith,aswellaslossoffinancialholdingcompanystatus.
Inorderforafinancialholdingcompanytocommenceanynewactivityortoacquireacompany
engagedinanyactivitypursuanttothefinancialholdingcompanyprovisionsoftheBHCA,eachinsured

depositoryinstitutionsubsidiaryofthefinancialholdingcompanyalsomusthaveatleastaﬁsatisfactoryﬂ

ratingundertheCommunityReinvestmentActof1977(theﬁCRAﬂ).Seethesectioncaptioned

ﬁCommunityReinvestmentActﬂincludedelsewhereinthisitem.
Currentfederallawalsoestablishesasystemoffunctionalregulationunderwhich,inadditiontothe
broadsupervisoryauthoritythattheFederalReserveBoardhasoverboththebankingandnon-banking

activitiesofbankholdingcompanies,thefederalbankingagenciesregulatethebankingactivitiesofbank

holdingcompanies,banksandsavingsassociationsandsubsidiariesoftheforegoing,theU.S.Securitiesand

ExchangeCommission(ﬁSECﬂ)regulatestheirsecuritiesactivities,andstateinsuranceregulatorsregulate

theirinsuranceactivities.
RecentDevelopments
TheDodd-FrankWallStreetReformandConsumerProtectionAct(theﬁDodd-FrankActﬂorﬁDodd-

Frankﬂ),whichwasenactedinJuly2010,significantlyrestructuresthefinancialregulatoryregimeinthe

UnitedStatesandprovidesforenhancedsupervisionandprudentialstandardsfor,amongotherthings,

bankholdingcompanies,likeM&T,thathavetotalconsolidatedassetsof$50billionormore.Notallofthe

rulesrequiredorexpectedtobeimplementedundertheDodd-FrankActhavebeenproposedoradopted,

andcertainoftherulesthathavebeenproposedoradoptedundertheDodd-FrankActaresubjecttophase-

inortransitionalperiods.TheultimateimplicationsoftheDodd-FrankActfortheCompany™sbusinesses

willdependtoalargeextentonthemannerinwhichrulesadoptedpursuanttotheDodd-FrankActare

implementedbytheprimaryU.S.financialregulatoryagenciesaswellaspotentialchangesinmarket

practicesandstructuresinresponsetotherequirementsoftheDodd-FrankActandfinancialreformsin

otherjurisdictions.
TheDodd-FrankActbroadenedthebaseforFDICinsuranceassessments.Beginninginthesecond
quarterof2011,assessmentsarebasedonaverageconsolidatedtotalassetslessaverageTier1capitaland

certainallowabledeductionsofafinancialinstitution.TheDodd-FrankActalsopermanentlyincreasedthe

maximumamountofdepositinsuranceforbanks,savingsinstitutionsandcreditunionsto$250,000per

depositor.
Thelegislationalsorequiresthatpubliclytradedcompaniesgiveshareholdersanon-bindingvoteon
executivecompensationandﬁgoldenparachuteﬂpayments,andauthorizestheSecuritiesandExchange

Commissiontopromulgaterulesthatwouldallowshareholderstonominatetheirowncandidatesusinga

company™sproxymaterials.TheDodd-FrankActalsodirectstheFederalReserveBoardtopromulgaterules

prohibitingexcessivecompensationpaidtobankholdingcompanyexecutives,regardlessofwhetherthe

companyispubliclytraded.
TheDodd-FrankActestablishedanewBureauofConsumerFinancialProtection(ﬁCFPBﬂ)withbroad
powerstosuperviseandenforceconsumerprotectionl
aws.TheCFPBhasbroadrule-makingauthorityfora
widerangeofconsumerprotectionlawsthatapplytoallbanksandsavingsinstitutions,includingtheauthorityto

prohibitﬁunfair,deceptiveorabusiveﬂactsandpractices
.TheCFPBhasexaminationandenforcementauthority
overallbanksandsavingsinstitutionswithmorethan$10billioninassets.
Inaddition,theDodd-FrankAct,amongotherthings:
Šweakenedthefederalpreemptionrulesthathavebeenapplicablefornationalbanksandgivesstate

attorneysgeneraltheabilitytoenforcefederalconsumerprotectionlaws;
ŠamendedtheElectronicFundTransferAct(ﬁEFTAﬂ)whichresultedin,amongotherthings,the

FederalReserveBoardissuingrulesaimedatlimitingdebit-cardinterchangefees;
Šappliedthesameleverageandrisk-basedcapitalrequirementsthatapplytoinsureddepository

institutionstomostbankholdingcompanies;
7ŠprovidedforanincreaseintheFDICassessmentfordepositoryinstitutionswithassetsof$10billion
ormoreandincreasedtheminimumreserveratioforthedepositinsurancefundfrom1.15%to

1.35%;Šimposedcomprehensiveregulationoftheover-the-counterderivativesmarket,whichwouldinclude

certainprovisionsthatwouldeffectivelyprohibitinsureddepositoryinstitutionsfromconducting

certainderivativesbusinessesintheinstitutionitself;
Šrepealedthefederalprohibitionsonthepaymentofinterestondemanddeposits,therebypermitting

depositoryinstitutionstopayinterestonbusinesstransactionandotheraccounts;
Šprovidedmortgagereformprovisionsregardingacustomer™sabilitytorepay,restrictingvariable-rate

lendingbyrequiringtheabilitytorepaytobedeterminedforvariable-rateloansbyusingthe

maximumratethatwillapplyduringthefirstfiveyearsofavariable-rateloanterm,andmaking

moreloanssubjecttoprovisionsforhighercostloans,newdisclosures,andcertainother

revisions;and
ŠcreatedtheFinancialStabilityOversightCouncil,whichwillrecommendtotheFederalReserve

Boardincreasinglystrictrulesforcapital,leverage,liquidity,riskmanagementandother

requirementsascompaniesgrowinsizeandcomplexity.
EnhancedSupervisionandPrudentialStandards
Section165oftheDodd-FrankActdirectedtheFederalReserveBoardtoenactenhancedprudential

standardsapplicabletoforeignbankingorganizationsandbankholdingcompanieswithtotalconsolidated

assetsof$50billionormore,suchasM&T.OnFebruary18,2014,theFederalReserveBoardadopted

amendmentstoRegulationYYtoimplementcertainoftherequiredenhancedprudentialstandards.These

enhancedprudentialstandards,whichareintendedtohelpincreasetheresiliencyoftheoperationsofthese

organizations,includeliquidityrequirements,requirementsforoverallriskmanagement(including

establishingariskcommittee),anda15-to-1debt-to-equitylimitforcompaniesthattheFinancialStability

OversightCouncilhasdeterminedposeagravethreattofinancialstability.Theliquidityrequirementsand

riskmanagementrequirementsbecameeffectiveastoM&TonJanuary1,2015.TheFederalReserveBoard

hasnotyetadoptedfinalsinglecounterpartycreditlimitsorearlyremediationrequirements.
Theruleaddressesadiversearrayofregulatoryareas,eachofwhichishighlycomplex.Insome
instancestheyimplementnewfinancialregulatoryrequirementsandinotherinstancestheyoverlapwith

regulatoryreformscurrentlyinexistence(suchastheBaselIIIcapitalandliquidityreformsdiscussedlater

inthissection).M&Tisanalyzingtheimpactofthefinalruleonitsbusinesses;however,thefullimpactwill

notbeknownuntiltheruleandotherregulatoryinitiativesthatoverlapwiththefinalrulecanbeanalyzed.
VolckerRule
TheDodd-FrankActrequiresthefederalfinancialregulatoryagenciestoadoptrulesthatprohibitbanksand

theiraffiliatesfromengaginginproprietarytradingandinvestinginandsponsoringcertainunregistered

investmentcompanies(definedashedgefundsandprivateequityfunds).Thestatutoryprovisionis

commonlycalledtheﬁVolckerRule.ﬂOnDecember10,2013,thefederalbankingregulatorsandtheSEC

adoptedfinalrulestoimplementtheVolckerRule.TheCompanybelievesthatitdoesnotengageinany

significantamountofproprietarytradingasdefinedintheVolckerRuleandthat,althoughitmaybe

requiredbythecoveredfundsprovisionstodivestcertaininvestmentsbytheendofthecomplianceperiod,

theVolckerRuleisnotexpectedtohaveasignificanteffectonM&T™sfinancialconditionoritsresultsof

operations.AlthoughtheVolckerRulebecameeffectiveonJuly21,2012andthefinalrulesbecameeffective

onApril1,2014,inconnectionwiththeadoptionofthefinalrulesonDecember10,2013bytheresponsible

agencies,theFederalReserveissuedanorderextendingtheperiodduringwhichinstitutionshaveto

conformtheirinvestmentstotherequirementsoftheVolckerRuletoJuly2016.
8DividendsM&Tisalegalentityseparateanddistinctfromitsbankingandothersubsidiaries.Historically,themajority

ofM&T™srevenuehasbeenfromdividendspaidtoM&Tbyitssubsidiarybanks.M&TBankand

WilmingtonTrust,N.A.aresubject,underoneormoreofthebankinglaws,torestrictionsontheamount

ofdividendstheymaydeclareandpay.FuturedividendpaymentstoM&Tbyitssubsidiarybankswillbe

dependentonanumberoffactors,includingtheearningsandfinancialconditionofeachsuchbank,and

aresubjecttothelimitationsreferredtoinnote23ofNotestoFinancialStatementsfiledherewithinPartII,

Item8,ﬁFinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData,ﬂandtootherstatutorypowersofbankregulatory

agencies.Aninsureddepositoryinstitutionisprohibitedfrommakinganycapitaldistributiontoitsowner,
includinganydividend,if,aftermakingsuchdistribution,thedepositoryinstitutionfailstomeetthe

requiredminimumlevelforanyrelevantcapitalmeasure,includingtherisk-basedcapitaladequacyand

leveragestandardsdiscussedherein.
DividendpaymentsbyM&TtoitsshareholdersandstockrepurchasesbyM&Taresubjecttothe
oversightoftheFederalReserveBoard.AsdescribedbelowinthissectionunderﬁStressTestingandCapital

PlanReview,ﬂdividendsandstockrepurchases(netofanynewstockissuancesasperacapitalplan)

generallymayonlybepaidormadeunderacapitalplanastowhichtheFederalReserveBoardhasnot

objected.SupervisionandRegulationofM&TBank™sSubsidiaries
M&TBankhasanumberofsubsidiaries.Thesesubsidiariesaresubjecttothelawsandregulationsofboth

thefederalgovernmentandthevariousstatesinwhichtheyconductbusiness.Forexample,M&TSecurities

isregulatedbytheSEC,theFinancialIndustryRegulatoryAuthorityandstatesecuritiesregulators.
CapitalRequirements
M&Tanditssubsidiarybanksarerequiredtocomplywithapplicablecapitaladequacystandardsestablished

bythefederalbankingagencies.Therisk-basedcapitalstandardsthatwereapplicabletoM&Tandits

subsidiarybanksthroughDecember31,2014werebasedonthe1988CapitalAccord,knownasBaselI,of

theBaselCommitteeonBankingSupervision(theﬁBaselCommitteeﬂ).However,inJuly2013,theFederal

ReserveBoard,theOCCandtheFDICapprovedfinalrules(theﬁNewCapitalRulesﬂ)establishinganew

comprehensivecapitalframeworkforU.S.bankingorganizations.TheseruleswentintoeffectastoM&T

anditssubsidiarybanksonJanuary1,2015,subjecttophase-inperiodsforcertaincomponentsandother

provisions.BaselIIIandtheNewCapitalRules.
TheNewCapitalRulesgenerallyimplementtheBasel
Committee™sDecember2010finalcapitalframeworkreferredtoasﬁBaselIIIﬂforstrengthening

internationalcapitalstandards.TheNewCapitalRulessubstantiallyrevisetherisk-basedcapital

requirementsapplicabletobankholdingcompaniesandtheirdepositoryinstitutionsubsidiaries,including

M&T,M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.,ascomparedtotheU.S.generalrisk-basedcapitalrulesthat

wereapplicabletotheCompanythroughDecember31,2014.TheNewCapitalRulesrevisethedefinitions

andthecomponentsofregulatorycapital,aswellasaddressotherissuesaffectingthenumeratorinbanking

institutions™regulatorycapitalratios.TheNewCapitalRulesalsoaddressassetriskweightsandother

mattersaffectingthedenominatorinbankinginstitutions™regulatorycapitalratios.Inaddition,theNew

CapitalRulesimplementcertainprovisionsoftheDodd-FrankAct,includingtherequirementsof

Section939Atoremovereferencestocreditratingsfromthefederalagencies™rules.
Amongothermatters,theNewCapitalRules:(i)introduceanewcapitalmeasurecalledﬁCommon
EquityTier1ﬂ(ﬁCET1ﬂ)andrelatedregulatorycapitalratioofCET1torisk-weightedassets;(ii)specifythat

Tier1capitalconsistsofCET1andﬁAdditionalTier1capitalﬂinstrumentsmeetingcertainrevised

requirements;(iii)mandatethatmostdeductions/adjustmentstoregulatorycapitalmeasuresbemadeto

CET1andnottotheothercomponentsofcapital;and(iv)expandthescopeofthedeductionsfromand

adjustmentstocapitalascomparedtothepreviousregulations.UndertheNewCapitalRules,formost

bankingorganizations,includingM&T,themostcommonformofAdditionalTier1capitalisnon-

cumulativeperpetualpreferredstockandthemostcommonformsofTier2capitalaresubordinatednotes

andaportionoftheallowanceforloanandleaselosses,ineachcase,subjecttotheNewCapitalRules™

specificrequirements.
9PursuanttotheNewCapitalRules,theminimumcapitalratiosasofJanuary1,2015areasfollows:
Š4.5%CET1torisk-weightedassets;
Š6.0%Tier1capital(thatis,CET1plusAdditionalTier1capital)torisk-weightedassets;
Š8.0%Totalcapital(thatis,Tier1capitalplusTier2capital)torisk-weightedassets;and
Š4.0%Tier1capitaltoaverageconsolidatedassetsasreportedonconsolidatedfinancialstatements
(knownastheﬁleverageratioﬂ).
TheNewCapitalRulesalsointroduceanewﬁcapitalconservationbuffer,ﬂcomposedentirelyof
CET1,ontopoftheseminimumrisk-weightedassetratios.Thecapitalconservationbufferisdesignedto

absorblossesduringperiodsofeconomicstress.BankinginstitutionswitharatioofCET1torisk-weighted

assetsabovetheminimumbutbelowthecapitalconservationbufferwillfaceconstraintsondividends,

equityandothercapitalinstrumentrepurchasesandcompensationbasedontheamountoftheshortfall.

Thus,whenfullyphased-inonJanuary1,2019,thecapitalstandardsapplicabletoM&Twillincludean

additionalcapitalconservationbufferof2.5%ofCET1,effectivelyresultinginminimumratiosinclusiveof

thecapitalconservationbufferof(i)CET1torisk-weightedassetsofatleast7%,(ii)Tier1capitaltorisk-

weightedassetsofatleast8.5%;(iii)Totalcapitaltorisk-weightedassetsofatleast10.5%and(iv)a

minimumleverageratioof4%,calculatedastheratioofTier1capitaltoaverageassets.Inaddition,M&Tis

alsosubjecttotheFederalReserveBoard™scapitalplanruleandsupervisoryCapitalAnalysisandReview

(ﬁCCARﬂ)process,pursuanttowhichitsabilitytomakecapitaldistributionsandrepurchaseorredeem

capitalsecuritiesmaybelimitedunlessM&Tisabletodemonstrateitsabilitytomeetapplicableminimum

capitalratiosandcurrentlya5%minimumTier1commonequityratio,aswellasotherrequirements,over

aninequarterplanninghorizonunderaﬁseverelyadverseﬂmacroeconomicscenariogeneratedyearlybythe

federalbankregulators.SeeﬁStressTestingandCapitalPlanReviewﬂbelow.
TheNewCapitalRulesprovideforanumberofdeductionsfromandadjustmentstoCET1.These
include,forexample,therequirementthatmortgageservicingrights,deferredtaxassetsarisingfrom

temporarydifferencesthatcouldnotberealizedthroughnetoperatinglosscarrybacksandsignificant

investmentsinnon-consolidatedfinancialentitiesbedeductedfromCET1totheextentthatanyonesuch

categoryexceeds10%ofCET1orallsuchitems,intheaggregate,exceed15%ofCET1.
Inaddition,undertherisk-basedcapitalrulesapplicabletotheCompanythroughDecember31,
2014,theeffectsofaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincomeorloss(ﬁAOCIﬂ)itemsincludedin

shareholders™equity(forexample,marks-to-marketofsecuritiesheldintheavailable-for-saleportfolio)

underU.S.GAAPwerereversedforthepurposesofdeterminingregulatorycapitalratios.Pursuanttothe

NewCapitalRules,theeffectsofcertainAOCIitemsarenotexcluded;however,non-advancedapproaches

bankingorganizations,includingM&T,maymakeaone-timepermanentelectiontocontinuetoexclude

theseitems.TheNewCapitalRulesalsoprecludecertainhybridsecurities,suchastrustpreferredsecurities,

frominclusioninbankholdingcompanies™Tier1capital,subjecttophase-outinthecaseofbankholding

companies,suchasM&T,thathad$15billionormoreintotalconsolidatedassetsasofDecember31,2009.

Asaresult,beginningin201525%ofM&T™strustpreferredsecuritiesbecameincludableinTier1capital,

andin2016,noneofM&T™strustpreferredsecuritieswillbeincludableinTier1capital.Trustpreferred

securitiesnolongerincludedinM&T™sTier1capitalmaynonethelessbeincludedasacomponentofTier2

capitalonapermanentbasiswithoutphase-outandirrespectiveofwhethersuchsecuritiesotherwisemeet

thereviseddefinitionofTier2capitalsetforthintheNewCapitalRules.ManagementbelievesthatM&Tis

incompliancewiththetargetedcapitalratios.Morespecifically,managementestimatesthatM&T™sratioof

CET1torisk-weightedassetsundertheNewCapitalRulesonafullyphased-inbasiswasapproximately

9.62%asofDecember31,2014,reflectinganestimateofthecomputationofCET1andM&T™srisk-

weightedassetsunderthemethodologiessetforthintheNewCapitalRules.
M&T™sregulatorycapitalratiosunderrisk-basedcapitalrulesineffectthroughDecember31,2014
arepresentedinnote23ofNotestoFinancialStatementsfiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancial

StatementsandSupplementaryData.ﬂ
LiquidityRatiosunderBaselIII.
Historically,regulationandmonitoringofbankandBHCliquidity
hasbeenaddressedasasupervisorymatter,bothintheU.S.andinternationally,withoutrequiredformulaic

measures.OnSeptember3,2014,theFederalReserveandotherbankingregulatorsadoptedfinalrules

(ﬁFinalLCRRuleﬂ)implementingaU.S.versionoftheBaselCommittee™sLiquidityCoverageRatio
10requirement(ﬁLCRﬂ).TheLCRisintendedtoensurethatbanksholdsufficientamountsofso-calledﬁhigh
qualityliquidassetsﬂ(ﬁHQLAﬂ)tocovertheanticipatednetcashoutflowsduringahypotheticalacute30-

daystressscenario.TheLCRistheratioofaninstitution™samountofHQLA(thenumerator)overprojected

netcashout-flowsoverthe30-dayhorizon(thedenominator),ineachcase,ascalculatedpursuanttothe

FinalLCRRule.Oncefullyphased-in,asubjectinstitutionmustmaintainanLCRequaltoatleast100%in

ordertosatisfythisregulatoryrequirement.Onlyspecificclassesofassets,includingU.S.Treasurysecurities,

otherU.S.governmentobligationsandagencymortgaged-backedsecurities,qualifyundertheruleas

HQLA,withclassesofassetsdeemedrelativelylessliquidand/orsubjecttogreaterdegreeofcreditrisk

subjecttocertainhaircutsandcapsforpurposesofcalculatingthenumeratorundertheFinalLCRRule.

Thetotalnetcashoutflowsamountisdeterminedundertherulebyapplyingcertainhypotheticaloutflow

andinflowrates,whichreflectcertainstandardizedstressedassumptions,againstthebalancesofthebanking

organization™sfundingsources,obligations,transactionsandassetsoverthe30-daystressperiod.Inflows

thatcanbeincludedtooffsetoutflowsarelimitedto75%ofoutflows(whicheffectivelymeansthatbanking

organizationsmustholdhigh-qualityliquidassetsequalto25%ofoutflowsevenifoutflowsperfectlymatch

inflowsoverthestressperiod).ThetotalnetcashoutflowamountforthemodifiedLCRapplicabletoM&T

iscappedat70%oftheoutflowratethatappliestothefullLCR.Theinitialcompliancedateforthe

modifiedLCRwillbeJanuary2016,withtherequirementfullyphased-inbyJanuary2017.
TheBaselIIIframeworkalsoincludedasecondstandard,referredtoasthenetstablefundingratio
(ﬁNSFRﬂ),whichisdesignedtopromotemoremedium-andlong-termfundingoftheassetsandactivitiesof

banksoveraone-yeartimehorizon.AlthoughtheBaselCommitteefinalizeditsformulationoftheNSFRin

2014,theU.S.bankingagencieshavenotyetproposedanNSFRforapplicationtoU.S.banking

organizationsoraddressedthescopeofbankingorganizationstowhichitwillapply.TheBaselCommittee™s

finalNSFRdocumentstatesthattheNSFRappliestointernationallyactivebanks,asdiditsfinalLCR

documentastothatratio.
CapitalRequirementsofSubsidiaryDepositoryInstitutions.
M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.
aresubjecttosubstantiallysimilarcapitalrequirementsasthoseapplicabletoM&T.AsofDecember31,

2014,bothM&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.wereincompliancewithapplicableminimumcapital

requirements.NoneofM&T,M&TBankorWilmingtonTrust,N.A.hasbeenadvisedbyanyfederal

bankingagencyofafailuretomeetanyspecificminimumcapitalratiorequirementapplicabletoitasof

December31,2014.Failuretomeetcapitalguidelinescouldsubjectabanktoavarietyofenforcement

remedies,includingtheterminationofdepositinsurancebytheFDIC,andtocertainrestrictionsonits

business.SeeﬁRegulatoryRemediesundertheFDIAﬂbelow.
StressTestingandCapitalPlanReview
Aspartoftheenhancedprudentialrequirementsapplicabletosystemicallyimportantfinancialinstitutions,

theFederalReserveBoardconductsannualanalysesofbankholdingcompanieswithatleast$50billionin

assets,suchasM&T,todeterminewhetherthecompanieshavesufficientcapitalonaconsolidatedbasis

necessarytoabsorblossesinthreeeconomicandfinancialscenariosgeneratedbytheFederalReserveBoard:

baseline,adverseandseverelyadversescenarios.M&Tisalsorequiredtoconductitsownsemi-annualstress

analysis(togetherwiththeFederalReserveBoard™sstressanalysis,theﬁstresstestsﬂ)toassessthepotential

impactonM&ToftheeconomicandfinancialconditionsusedaspartoftheFederalReserveBoard™sannual

stressanalysis.TheFederalReserveBoardmayalsouse,andrequirecompaniestouse,additional

componentsintheadverseandseverelyadversescenariosoradditionalormorecomplexscenariosdesigned

tocapturesalientriskstospecificbusinessgroups.M&TBankisalsorequiredtoconductannualstress

testingusingthesameeconomicandfinancialscenariosasM&TandreporttheresultstotheFederal

ReserveBoard.AsummaryofresultsoftheFederalReserveBoard™sanalysisundertheadverseandseverely

adversestressscenarioswillbepubliclydisclosed,andthebankholdingcompaniessubjecttotherules,

includingM&T,mustdiscloseasummaryofthecompany-runseverelyadversestresstestresults.M&Tis

requiredtoincludeinitsdisclosureasummaryoftheseverelyadversescenariostresstestconductedby

M&TBank.
Inaddition,bankholdingcompanieswithtotalconsolidatedassetsof$50billionormore,suchas
M&T,mustsubmitannualcapitalplansforapprovalaspartoftheFederalReserveBoard™sCCARprocess.

Coveredbankholdingcompaniesmayexecutecapitalactions,suchaspayingdividendsandrepurchasing

stock,onlyinaccordancewithacapitalplanthathasbeenreviewedandapprovedbytheFederalReserve

Board(oranyapprovedamendmentstosuchplan).Thecomprehensivecapitalplansincludeaviewof

capitaladequacyunderfourscenariosŠaBHC-definedbaselinescenario,abaselinescenarioprovidedby
11theFederalReserveBoard,atleastoneBHC-definedstressscenario,andastressscenarioprovidedbythe
FederalReserveBoard.TheCCARprocessisintendedtohelpensurethatthesebankholdingcompanies

haverobust,forward-lookingcapitalplanningprocessesthataccountforeachcompany™suniquerisksand

thatpermitcontinuedoperationsduringtimesofeconomicandfinancialstress.Eachofthebankholding

companiesparticipatingintheCCARprocessisalsorequiredtocollectandreportcertainrelateddatatothe

FederalReserveBoardonaquarterlybasistoallowtheFederalReserveBoardtomonitorprogressagainst

theapprovedcapitalplans.Eachcapitalplanmustincludeaviewofcapitaladequacyunderthestresstest

scenariosdescribedabove.TheFederalReserveBoardmayobjecttoacapitalplaniftheplandoesnotshow

thatthecoveredbankholdingcompanywillmaintainaTier1commonequityratio(asdefinedunderthe

BaselIframework)ofatleast5%onaproformabasisunderexpectedandstressfulconditionsthroughout

thenine-quarterplanninghorizoncoveredbythecapitalplan.Evenifsuchquantitativethresholdsaremet,

theFederalReserveBoardcouldobjecttoacapitalplanforqualitativereasons,includinginadequate

assumptionsintheplan,otherunresolvedsupervisoryissuesoraninsufficientlyrobustcapitaladequacy

process,orifthecapitalplanwouldotherwiseconstituteanunsafeorunsoundpracticeorviolatelaw.The

rulesalsoprovidethatacoveredBHCmaynotmakeacapitaldistributionunlessaftergivingeffecttothe

distributionitwillmeetallminimumregulatorycapitalratiosandhavearatioofTier1commonequityto

risk-weightedassetsofatleast5%.TheCCARrules,consistentwithpriorFederalReserveBoardguidance,

alsoprovidethatcapitalplanscontemplatingdividendpayoutratiosexceeding30%ofnetincomewill

receiveparticularlyclosescrutiny.M&T™smostrecentCCARcapitalplanwasfiledwiththeFederalReserve

BoardonJanuary5,2015.
InOctober2014,theFederalReserveBoardamendeditscapitalplanningandstresstestingrulesto,
amongotherthings,generallylimitaBHC™sabilitytomakequarterlycapitaldistributionsŒthatis,

dividendsandsharerepurchasesŒcommencingApril1,2015iftheamountoftheBHC™sactualcumulative

quarterlycapitalissuancesofinstrumentsthatqualifyasregulatorycapitalarelessthantheBHChad

indicatedinitssubmittedcapitalplanastowhichitreceivedanon-objectionfromtheFederalReserve

Board.Forexample,iftheBHCissuedasmalleramountofadditionalcommonstockthanithadstatedin

itscapitalplan,itwouldberequiredtoreducecommondividendsand/ortheamountofcommonstock

repurchasessothatthedollaramountofcapitaldistributions,netofthedollaramountofadditional

commonstockissued(ﬁnetdistributionsﬂ),isnogreaterthanthedollaramountofnetdistributionsrelating

toitscommonstockincludedinitscapitalplan,asmeasuredonanaggregatebasisbeginninginthethird

quarterofthenine-quarterplanninghorizonthroughtheendofthethencurrentquarter.However,not

raisingsufficientamountsofcommonstockasplannedwouldnotaffectdistributionsrelatedtoAdditional

Tier1Capitalinstrumentsand/orTier2Capital.Theselimitationsalsocontainseveralimportant

qualificationsandexceptions,includingthatscheduleddividendpaymentson(asopposedtorepurchases

of)aBHC™sAdditionalTier1CapitalandTier2CapitalinstrumentsarenotrestrictediftheBHCfailsto

issueasufficientamountofsuchinstrumentsasplanned,aswellasprovisionsforcertain
deminimis
excessdistributions.Inaddition,theseamendmentsalsorevisethetimelineforaBHC™sannualcapitalplanandcompany
andsupervisory-runstresstestingprocessesgenerallybypushingbackthevariousdeadlinesbyonequarter

beginningwiththecapitalplanningcyclecommencingsuchthattheCompany™sannualcapitalplanning

submissionwillbeduebyApril5(insteadofJanuary5)andtheFederalReservewillpublishtheresultsofits

supervisoryCCARreviewoftheCompany™scapitalplanbyJune30(insteadofMarch31)ofeachyear.
SafetyandSoundnessStandards
GuidelinesadoptedbythefederalbankregulatoryagenciespursuanttotheFederalDepositInsuranceAct,

asamended(theﬁFDIAﬂ),establishgeneralstandardsrelatingtointernalcontrolsandinformationsystems,

internalauditsystems,loandocumentation,creditunderwriting,interestrateexposure,assetgrowthand

compensation,feesandbenefits.Ingeneral,theseguidelinesrequire,amongotherthings,appropriate

systemsandpracticestoidentifyandmanagetheriskandexposuresspecifiedintheguidelines.Additionally,

theagenciesadoptedregulationsthatauthorize,butdonotrequire,anagencytoorderaninstitutionthat

hasbeengivennoticebyanagencythatitisnotsatisfyinganyofsuchsafetyandsoundnessstandardsto

submitacomplianceplan.If,afterbeingsonotified,aninstitutionfailstosubmitanacceptablecompliance

planorfailsinanymaterialrespecttoimplementanacceptablecomplianceplan,theagencymustissuean

orderdirectingactiontocorrectthedeficiencyandmayissueanorderdirectingotheractionsofthetypesto

whichanundercapitalizedinstitutionissubjectundertheﬁpromptcorrectiveactionﬂprovisionsofthe
12FDIA.SeeﬁRegulatoryRemediesundertheFDIAﬂbelow.Ifaninstitutionfailstocomplywithsuchan
order,theagencymayseektoenforcesuchorderinjudicialproceedingsandtoimposecivilmoney

penalties.RegulatoryRemediesundertheFDIA
TheFDIAestablishesasystemofregulatoryremediestoresolvetheproblemsofundercapitalized

institutions,referredtoasthepromptcorrectiveaction.Thefederalbankingregulatorshaveestablishedfive

capitalcategories(ﬁwell-capitalized,ﬂﬁadequatelycapitalized,ﬂﬁundercapitalized,ﬂﬁsignificantly

undercapitalizedﬂandﬁcriticallyundercapitalizedﬂ)andmusttakecertainmandatorysupervisoryactions,

andareauthorizedtotakeotherdiscretionaryactions,withrespecttoinstitutionswhichare

undercapitalized,significantlyundercapitalizedorcriticallyundercapitalized.Theseverityofthese

mandatoryanddiscretionarysupervisoryactionsdependsuponthecapitalcategoryinwhichtheinstitution

isplaced.Generally,subjecttoanarrowexception,theFDIArequiresthebankingregulatortoappointa

receiverorconservatorforaninstitutionthatiscriticallyundercapitalized.TheFDIChasspecifiedby

regulationtherelevantcapitallevelsforeachcategory,whichareprintedbelow.TheFederalReserveBoard

andtheOCChavespecifiedthesameorsimilarlevelsforeachcategory.
ﬁWell-CapitalizedﬂﬁAdequatelyCapitalizedﬂ
LeverageRatioof5%,

Tier1Capitalratioof6%,

TotalCapitalratioof10%,and

Notsubjecttoawrittenagreement,order,

capitaldirectiveorregulatoryremedy

directiverequiringaspecificcapitallevel.
LeverageRatioof4%,
Tier1Capitalratioof4%,and

TotalCapitalratioof8%.
ﬁUndercapitalizedﬂﬁSignificantlyUndercapitalizedﬂ
LeverageRatiolessthan4%,
Tier1Capitalratiolessthan4%,or

TotalCapitalratiolessthan8%.
LeverageRatiolessthan3%,
Tier1Capitalratiolessthan3%,or

TotalCapitalratiolessthan6%.
ﬁCriticallyundercapitalizedﬂ
Tangibleequitytototalassetslessthan2%.
Forpurposesoftheseregulations,thetermﬁtangibleequityﬂincludescorecapitalelementscounted
asTier1Capitalforpurposesoftherisk-basedcapitalstandardsplustheamountofoutstandingcumulative

perpetualpreferredstock(includingrelatedsurplus),minusallintangibleassetswithcertainexceptions.
Aninstitutionthatisclassifiedaswell-capitalizedbasedonitscapitallevelsmaybeclassifiedas
adequatelycapitalized,andaninstitutionthatisadequatelycapitalizedorundercapitalizedbaseduponits

capitallevelsmaybetreatedasthoughitwereundercapitalizedorsignificantlyundercapitalized,

respectively,iftheappropriatefederalbankingagency,afternoticeandopportunityforhearing,determines

thatanunsafeorunsoundconditionoranunsafeorunsoundpracticewarrantssuchtreatment.
Aninstitutionthatiscategorizedasundercapitalized,significantlyundercapitalizedorcritically
undercapitalizedisrequiredtosubmitanacceptablecapitalrestorationplantoitsappropriatefederal

bankingregulator.UndertheFDIA,inorderforthecapitalrestorationplantobeacceptedbythe

appropriatefederalbankingagency,aBHCmustguaranteethatasubsidiarydepositoryinstitutionwill

complywithitscapitalrestorationplan,subjecttocertainlimitations.TheBHCmustalsoprovide

appropriateassurancesofperformance.TheobligationofacontrollingBHCundertheFDIAtofunda

capitalrestorationplanislimitedtothelesserof5.0%ofanundercapitalizedsubsidiary™sassetsorthe

amountrequiredtomeetregulatorycapitalrequirements.Anundercapitalizedinstitutionisalsogenerally

prohibitedfromincreasingitsaveragetotalassets,makingacquisitions,establishinganybranchesor

engaginginanynewlineofbusiness,exceptinaccordancewithanacceptedcapitalrestorationplanorwith

theapprovaloftheFDIC.Institutionsthataresignificantlyundercapitalizedorundercapitalizedandeither

failtosubmitanacceptablecapitalrestorationplanorfailtoimplementanapprovedcapitalrestoration

planmaybesubjecttoanumberofrequirementsandrestrictions,includingorderstosellsufficientvoting

stocktobecomeadequatelycapitalized,requirementstoreducetotalassetsandcessationofreceiptof
13depositsfromcorrespondentbanks.Criticallyundercapitalizeddepositoryinstitutionsfailingtosubmitor
implementanacceptablecapitalrestorationplanaresubjecttoappointmentofareceiverorconservator.
EffectiveJanuary1,2015,theNewCapitalRulesrevisedthepromptcorrectiveactionrequirements
ineffectthroughDecember31,2014by(i)introducingaCET1ratiorequirementateachlevel(otherthan

criticallyundercapitalized),withtherequiredCET1ratiobeing6.5%forwell-capitalizedstatus;

(ii)increasingtheminimumTier1capitalratiorequirementforeachcategory(otherthancritically

undercapitalized),withtheminimumTier1capitalratioforwell-capitalizedstatusbeing8%(ascompared

totheformer6%);and(iii)eliminatingtheprovisionthatprovidedthatabankwithacomposite

supervisoryratingof1mayhavea3%leverageratioandstillbeadequatelycapitalized.TheNewCapital

Rulesdonotchangethetotalrisk-basedcapitalrequirementforanypromptcorrectiveactioncategory.
SupportofSubsidiaryBanks
UnderlongstandingFederalReserveBoardpolicywhichhasbeencodifiedbytheDodd-FrankAct,M&Tis

expectedtoactasasourceoffinancialstrengthto,andtocommitresourcestosupport,itssubsidiarybanks.

ThissupportmayberequiredattimeswhenM&Tmaynotbeinclinedorabletoprovideit.Inaddition,any

capitalloansbyaBHCtoasubsidiarybankaresubordinateinrightofpaymenttodepositsandtocertain

otherindebtednessofsuchsubsidiarybank.IntheeventofaBHC™sbankruptcy,anycommitmentbythe

BHCtoafederalbankregulatoryagencytomaintainthecapitalofasubsidiarybankwillbeassumedbythe

bankruptcytrusteeandentitledtoapriorityofpayment.
Cross-GuaranteeProvisions
Eachinsureddepositoryinstitutionﬁcontrolledﬂ(asdefinedintheBHCA)bythesameBHCcanbeheld

liabletotheFDICforanylossincurred,orreasonablyexpectedtobeincurred,bytheFDICduetothe

defaultofanyotherinsureddepositoryinstitutioncontrolledbythatholdingcompanyandforany

assistanceprovidedbytheFDICtoanyofthosebanksthatareindangerofdefault.TheFDIC™sclaimunder

thecross-guaranteeprovisionsissuperiortoclaimsofshareholdersoftheinsureddepositoryinstitutionor

itsholdingcompanyandtomostclaimsarisingoutofobligationsorliabilitiesowedtoaffiliatesofthe

institution,butissubordinatetoclaimsofdepositors,securedcreditorsandholdersofsubordinateddebt

(otherthanaffiliates)ofthecommonlycontrolledinsureddepositoryinstitution.TheFDICmaydeclineto

enforcethecross-guaranteeprovisionsifitdeterminesthatawaiverisinthebestinterestoftheDIF.
TransactionswithAffiliates
TherearevariouslegalrestrictionsontheextenttowhichM&Tanditsnon-banksubsidiariesmayborrow

orotherwiseobtainfundingfromM&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.Ingeneral,Sections23Aand23B

oftheFederalReserveBoardActandFederalReserveBoardRegulationWrequirethatanyﬁcovered

transactionﬂbyM&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.(oranyoftheirrespectivesubsidiaries)withan

affiliatemustincertaincasesbesecuredbydesignatedamountsofspecifiedcollateralandmustbelimitedas

follows:(a)inthecaseofanysinglesuchaffiliate,theaggregateamountofcoveredtransactionsofthe

insureddepositoryinstitutionanditssubsidiariesmaynotexceed10%ofthecapitalstockandsurplusof

suchinsureddepositoryinstitution,and(b)inthecaseofallaffiliates,theaggregateamountofcovered

transactionsofaninsureddepositoryinstitutionanditssubsidiariesmaynotexceed20%ofthecapitalstock

andsurplusofsuchinsureddepositoryinstitution.TheDodd-FrankActsignificantlyexpandedthecoverage

andscopeofthelimitationsonaffiliatetransactionswithinabankingorganization,includingforexample,

therequirementthatthe10%ofcapitallimitoncoveredtransactionsbegintoapplytofinancial

subsidiaries.ﬁCoveredtransactionsﬂaredefinedbystatutetoinclude,amongotherthings,aloanor

extensionofcredit,aswellasapurchaseofsecuritiesissuedbyanaffiliate,apurchaseofassets(unless

otherwiseexemptedbytheFederalReserveBoard)fromtheaffiliate,certainderivativetransactionsthat

createacreditexposuretoanaffiliate,theacceptanceofsecuritiesissuedbytheaffiliateascollateralfora

loan,andtheissuanceofaguarantee,acceptanceorletterofcreditonbehalfofanaffiliate.Allcovered

transactions,includingcertainadditionaltransactions(suchastransactionswithathirdpartyinwhichan

affiliatehasafinancialinterest),mustbeconductedonmarketterms.
FDICInsuranceAssessments
DepositInsuranceAssessments.
M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.paydepositinsurancepremiumsto
theFDICbasedonanassessmentrateestablishedbytheFDIC.Depositinsuranceassessmentsarebasedon

averagetotalassetsminusaveragetangibleequity.Forlargerinstitutions,suchasM&TBank,theFDICuses
14aperformancescoreandaloss-severityscorethatareusedtocalculateaninitialassessmentrate.In
calculatingthesescores,theFDICusesabank™scapitallevelandsupervisoryratings(itsﬁCAMELSratingsﬂ)

andcertainfinancialmeasurestoassessaninstitution™sabilitytowithstandasset-relatedstressandfunding-

relatedstress.TheFDIChastheabilitytomakediscretionaryadjustmentstothetotalscorebasedupon

significantriskfactorsthatarenotadequatelycapturedinthecalculations.
Theinitialbaseassessmentraterangesfrom5to35basispointsonanannualizedbasis.Afterthe
effectofpotentialbase-rateadjustments,thetotalbaseassessmentratecouldrangefrom2.5to45basis

pointsonanannualizedbasis.AstheDIFreserveratiogrows,therateschedulewillbeadjusteddownward.

Additionally,aninstitutionmustpayanadditionalpremiumequalto50basispointsoneverydollar(above

3%ofaninstitution™sTier1capital)oflong-term,unsecureddebtheldthatwasissuedbyanotherinsured

depositoryinstitution(excludingdebtguaranteedundertheTemporaryLiquidityGuaranteeProgram).
InOctober2010,theFDICadoptedanewDIFrestorationplantoensurethedesignatedreserveratio
reaches1.35%bySeptember2020.TheFDICwill,atleastsemi-annually,updateitsincomeandloss

projectionsfortheDIFand,ifnecessary,proposerulestofurtherincreaseassessmentrates.
UndertheFDIA,insuranceofdepositsmaybeterminatedbytheFDICuponafindingthatthe
institutionhasengagedinunsafeandunsoundpractices,isinanunsafeorunsoundconditiontocontinue

operations,orhasviolatedanyapplicablelaw,regulation,rule,orderorconditionimposedbytheFDIC.
FICOAssessments.
Inaddition,theDepositInsuranceFundsActof1996authorizedtheFinancing
Corporation(ﬁFICOﬂ)toimposeassessmentsonDIFapplicabledepositsinordertoservicetheintereston

FICO™sbondobligationsfromdepositinsurancefundassessments.Theamountassessedonindividual

institutionsbyFICOisinadditiontotheamount,ifany,paidfordepositinsuranceaccordingtotheFDIC™s

risk-relatedassessmentrateschedules.FICOassessmentratesmaybeadjustedquarterlytoreflectachange

inassessmentbase.M&TBankrecognized$5millionofexpenserelatedtoitsFICOassessmentsand

WilmingtonTrust,N.A.recognized$69thousandofsuchexpensein2014.
AcquisitionsTheBHCArequireseveryBHCtoobtainthepriorapprovaloftheFederalReserveBoardbefore:(1)itmay

acquiredirectorindirectownershiporcontrolofanyvotingsharesofanybankorsavingsandloan

association,ifaftersuchacquisition,theBHCwilldirectlyorindirectlyownorcontrol5%ormoreofthe

votingsharesoftheinstitution;(2)itoranyofitssubsidiaries,otherthanabank,mayacquireallor

substantiallyalloftheassetsofanybankorsavingsandloanassociation;or(3)itmaymergeorconsolidate

withanyotherBHC.SinceJuly2011,financialholdingcompaniesandbankholdingcompanieswith

consolidatedassetsexceeding$50billion,suchasM&T,havebeenrequiredto(i)obtainpriorapproval

fromtheFederalReserveBoardbeforeacquiringcertainnonbankfinancialcompanieswithassetsexceeding

$10billionand(ii)providepriorwrittennoticetotheFederalReserveBoardbeforeacquiringdirector

indirectownershiporcontrolofanyvotingsharesofanycompanyhavingconsolidatedassetsof$10billion

ormore.SinceJuly2011,bankholdingcompaniesseekingapprovaltocompleteanacquisitionhavebeen

requiredtobewell-capitalizedandwell-managed.
TheBHCAfurtherprovidesthattheFederalReserveBoardmaynotapproveanytransactionthat
wouldresultinamonopolyorwouldbeinfurtheranceofanycombinationorconspiracytomonopolizeor

attempttomonopolizethebusinessofbankinginanysectionoftheUnitedStates,ortheeffectofwhich

maybesubstantiallytolessencompetitionortotendtocreateamonopolyinanysectionofthecountry,or

thatinanyothermannerwouldbeinrestraintoftrade,unlesstheanticompetitiveeffectsoftheproposed

transactionareclearlyoutweighedbythepublicinterestinmeetingtheconvenienceandneedsofthe

communitytobeserved.TheFederalReserveBoardisalsorequiredtoconsiderthefinancialand

managerialresourcesandfutureprospectsofthebankholdingcompaniesandbanksconcernedandthe

convenienceandneedsofthecommunitytobeserved.Considerationoffinancialresourcesgenerally

focusesoncapitaladequacy,andconsiderationofconvenienceandneedsissuesincludestheparties™

performanceundertheCRAandcompliancewithconsumerprotectionlaws.TheFederalReserveBoard

musttakeintoaccounttheinstitutions™effectivenessincombatingmoneylaundering.Inaddition,pursuant

totheDodd-FrankAct,theBHCAwasamendedtorequiretheFederalReserveBoard,whenevaluatinga

proposedtransaction,toconsidertheextenttowhichthetransactionwouldresultingreaterormore

concentratedriskstothestabilityoftheUnitedStatesbankingorfinancialsystem.
15ExecutiveandIncentiveCompensation
GuidelinesadoptedbythefederalbankingagenciespursuanttotheFDIAprohibitexcessivecompensation

asanunsafeandunsoundpracticeanddescribecompensationasexcessivewhentheamountspaidare

unreasonableordisproportionatetotheservicesperformedbyanexecutiveofficer,employee,directoror

principalstockholder.InJune2010,theFederalReserveBoardissuedcomprehensiveguidanceonincentive

compensationpolicies(theﬁIncentiveCompensationGuidanceﬂ)intendedtoensurethattheincentive

compensationpoliciesofbankingorganizationsdonotunderminethesafetyandsoundnessofsuch

organizationsbyencouragingexcessiverisk-taking.TheIncentiveCompensationGuidance,whichcoversall

employeesthathavetheabilitytomateriallyaffecttheriskprofileofanorganization,eitherindividuallyor

aspartofagroup,isbaseduponthekeyprinciplesthatabankingorganization™sincentivecompensation

arrangementsshould(i)provideincentivesthatdonotencouragerisk-takingbeyondtheorganization™s

abilitytoeffectivelyidentifyandmanagerisks,(ii)becompatiblewitheffectiveinternalcontrolsandrisk

management,and(iii)besupportedbystrongcorporategovernance,includingactiveandeffectiveoversight

bytheorganization™sboardofdirectors.Thesethreeprinciplesareincorporatedintotheproposedjoint

compensationregulationsundertheDodd-FrankAct,discussedbelow.Anydeficienciesincompensation

practicesthatareidentifiedmaybeincorporatedintotheorganization™ssupervisoryratings,whichcan

affectitsabilitytomakeacquisitionsorperformotheractions.TheIncentiveCompensationGuidance

providesthatenforcementactionsmaybetakenagainstabankingorganizationifitsincentive

compensationarrangementsorrelatedrisk-managementcontrolorgovernanceprocessesposearisktothe

organization™ssafetyandsoundnessandtheorganizationisnottakingpromptandeffectivemeasuresto

correctthedeficiencies.
TheDodd-FrankActrequiresthefederalbankregulatoryagenciesandtheSECtoestablishjoint
regulationsorguidelinesprohibitingincentive-basedpaymentarrangementsatspecifiedregulatedentities,

suchasM&TandM&TBank,havingatleast$1billionintotalassetsthatencourageinappropriaterisksby

providinganexecutiveofficer,employee,directororprincipalshareholderwithexcessivecompensation,

fees,orbenefitsorthatcouldleadtomaterialfinanciallosstotheentity.Inaddition,theseregulatorsmust

establishregulationsorguidelinesrequiringenhanceddisclosuretoregulatorsofincentive-based

compensationarrangements.TheagenciesproposedsuchregulationsinApril2011,andifthefinal

regulationsareadoptedintheforminitiallyproposed,theywillimposelimitationsonthemannerinwhich

M&Tmaystructurecompensationforitsexecutives.
ThescopeandcontentoftheU.S.bankingregulators™policiesonincentivecompensationare
continuingtodevelopandarelikelytocontinueevolvinginthefuture.Itcannotbedeterminedatthistime

whethercompliancewithsuchpolicieswilladverselyaffecttheabilityofM&Tanditssubsidiariestohire,

retainandmotivatetheirkeyemployees.
ResolutionPlanning
Bankholdingcompanieswithconsolidatedassetsof$50billionormore,suchasM&T,arerequiredto

reportperiodicallytoregulatorsaresolutionplanfortheirrapidandorderlyresolutionintheeventof

materialfinancialdistressorfailure.M&T™sresolutionplanmust,amongotherthings,ensurethatits

depositoryinstitutionsubsidiariesareadequatelyprotectedfromrisksarisingfromitsothersubsidiaries.

TheregulationadoptedbytheFederalReserveandFDICsetsspecificstandardsfortheresolutionplans,

includingrequiringastrategicanalysisoftheplan™scomponents,adescriptionoftherangeofspecific

actionsthecompanyproposestotakeinresolution,andadescriptionofthecompany™sorganizational

structure,materialentities,interconnectionsandinterdependencies,andmanagementinformationsystems,

amongotherelements.Inaddition,insureddepositoryinstitutionswith$50billionormoreintotalassets,

suchasM&TBank,arerequiredtosubmittotheFDICperiodicplansforresolutionintheeventofthe

institution™sfailure.M&TandM&TBanksubmittedtheirresolutionplansonDecember16,2014.
InsolvencyofanInsuredDepositoryInstitutionoraBankHoldingCompany
IftheFDICisappointedasconservatororreceiverforaninsureddepositoryinstitutionsuchasM&TBank

orWilmingtonTrust,N.A.,uponitsinsolvencyorincertainotherevents,theFDIChasthepower:
Štotransferanyofthedepositoryinstitution™sassetsandliabilitiestoanewobligor,includinganewly

formedﬁbridgeﬂbankwithouttheapprovalofthedepositoryinstitution™screditors;
Štoenforcethetermsofthedepositoryinstitution™scontractspursuanttotheirtermswithoutregard

toanyprovisionstriggeredbytheappointmentoftheFDICinthatcapacity;or
16Štorepudiateordisaffirmanycontractorleasetowhichthedepositoryinstitutionisaparty,the
performanceofwhichisdeterminedbytheFDICtobeburdensomeandthedisaffirmanceor

repudiationofwhichisdeterminedbytheFDICtopromotetheorderlyadministrationofthe

depositoryinstitution.
Inaddition,underfederallaw,theclaimsofholdersofdomesticdepositliabilitiesandcertainclaims
foradministrativeexpensesagainstaninsureddepositoryinstitutionwouldbeaffordedapriorityoverother

generalunsecuredclaimsagainstsuchaninstitution,includingclaimsofdebtholdersoftheinstitution,in

theﬁliquidationorotherresolutionﬂofsuchaninstitutionbyanyreceiver.Asaresult,whetherornotthe

FDICeversoughttorepudiateanydebtobligationsofM&TBankorWilmingtonTrust,N.A.,thedebt

holderswouldbetreateddifferentlyfrom,andcouldreceive,ifanything,substantiallylessthan,the

depositorsofthebank.TheDodd-FrankActcreatedanewresolutionregime(knownasﬁorderlyliquidation

authorityﬂ)forsystemicallyimportantfinancialcompanies,includingbankholdingcompaniesandtheir

affiliates.Undertheorderlyliquidationauthority,theFDICmaybeappointedasreceiverforthe

systemicallyimportantinstitution,anditsfailedsubsidiaries,forpurposesofliquidatingtheentityif,among

otherconditions,itisdeterminedatthetimeoftheinstitution™sfailurethatitisindefaultorindangerof

defaultandthefailureposesarisktothestabilityoftheU.S.financialsystem.
IftheFDICisappointedasreceiverundertheorderlyliquidationauthority,thenthepowersofthe
receiver,andtherightsandobligationsofcreditorsandotherpartieswhohavedealtwiththeinstitution,

wouldbedeterminedundertheDodd-FrankActprovisions,andnotundertheinsolvencylawthatwould

otherwiseapply.Thepowersofthereceiverundertheorderlyliquidationauthoritywerebasedonthe

powersoftheFDICasreceiverfordepositoryinstitutionsundertheFDIA.However,theprovisions

governingtherightsofcreditorsundertheorderlyliquidationauthorityweremodifiedincertainrespectsto

reducedisparitieswiththetreatmentofcreditors™claimsundertheU.S.BankruptcyCodeascomparedto

thetreatmentofthoseclaimsunderthenewauthority.Nonetheless,substantialdifferencesintherightsof

creditorsexistasbetweenthesetworegimes,includingtherightoftheFDICtodisregardthestrictpriority

ofcreditorclaimsinsomecircumstances,theuseofanadministrativeclaimsproceduretodetermine

creditors™claims(asopposedtothejudicialprocedureutilizedinbankruptcyproceedings),andtherightof

theFDICtotransferclaimstoaﬁbridgeﬂentity.
Anorderlyliquidationfundwillfundsuchliquidationproceedingsthroughborrowingsfromthe
TreasuryDepartmentandrisk-basedassessmentsmade,first,onentitiesthatreceivedmoreintheresolution

thantheywouldhavereceivedinliquidationtotheextentofsuchexcess,andsecond,ifnecessary,onbank

holdingcompanieswithtotalconsolidatedassetsof$50billionormore,suchasM&T.Ifanorderly

liquidationistriggered,M&Tcouldfaceassessmentsfortheorderlyliquidationfund.
TheFDIChasdevelopedastrategyundertheorderlyliquidationauthorityreferredtoastheﬁsingle
pointofentryﬂstrategy,underwhichtheFDICwouldresolveafailedfinancialholdingcompanyby

transferringitsassets(includingsharesofitsoperatingsubsidiaries)and,potentially,verylimitedliabilities

toaﬁbridgeﬂholdingcompany;utilizetheresourcesofthefailedfinancialholdingcompanytorecapitalize

theoperatingsubsidiaries;andsatisfytheclaimsofunsecuredcreditorsofthefailedfinancialholding

companyandotherclaimantsinthereceivershipbydeliveringsecuritiesofoneormorenewfinancial

companiesthatwouldemergefromthebridgeholdingcompany.Underthisstrategy,managementofthe

failedfinancialholdingcompanywouldbereplacedandshareholdersandcreditorsofthefailedfinancial

holdingcompanywouldbearthelossesresultingfromthefailure.TheFDICissuedanoticeinDecember

2013describingsomeelementsofthissinglepointofentrystrategyandseekingpubliccommenttofurther

developthestrategy.TheorderlyliquidationauthorityprovisionsoftheDodd-FrankActbecameeffective

uponenactment.However,anumberofrulemakingsarerequiredunderthetermsofDodd-Frank,anda

numberofprovisionsofthenewauthorityrequireclarification.
DepositorPreference
Underfederallaw,depositorsandcertainclaimsforadministrativeexpensesandemployeecompensation

againstaninsureddepositoryinstitutionwouldbeaffordedapriorityoverothergeneralunsecuredclaims

againstsuchaninstitutionintheﬁliquidationorotherresolutionﬂofsuchaninstitutionbyanyreceiver.If

aninsureddepositoryinstitutionfails,insuredanduninsureddepositors,alongwiththeFDIC,willhave

priorityinpaymentaheadofunsecured,non-depositcreditors,includingdepositorswhosedepositsare

payableonlyoutsideoftheUnitedStatesandtheparentBHC,withrespecttoanyextensionsofcreditthey

havemadetosuchinsureddepositoryinstitution.
17FinancialPrivacy
Thefederalbankingregulatorshaveadoptedrulesthatlimittheabilityofbanksandotherfinancial

institutionstodisclosenon-publicinformationaboutconsumerstonon-affiliatedthirdparties.These

limitationsrequiredisclosureofprivacypoliciestoconsumersand,insomecircumstances,allowconsumers

topreventdisclosureofcertainpersonalinformationtoanon-affiliatedthirdparty.Theseregulationsaffect

howconsumerinformationistransmittedthroughdiversifiedfinancialcompaniesandconveyedtooutside

vendors.Inaddition,consumersmayalsopreventdisclosureofcertaininformationamongaffiliated

companiesthatisassembledorusedtodetermineeligibilityforaproductorservice,suchasthatshownon

consumercreditreportsandassetandincomeinformationfromapplications.Consumersalsohavethe

optiontodirectbanksandotherfinancialinstitutionsnottoshareinformationabouttransactionsand

experienceswithaffiliatedcompaniesforthepurposeofmarketingproductsorservices.
ConsumerProtectionLaws
Inconnectionwiththeirrespectivelendingandleasingactivities,M&TBank,WilmingtonTrust,N.A.and

certainoftheirsubsidiaries,areeachsubjecttoanumberoffederalandstatelawsdesignedtoprotect

borrowersandpromotelendingtovarioussectorsoftheeconomy.TheselawsincludetheEqualCredit

OpportunityAct,theFairCreditReportingAct,theFairandAccurateCreditTransactionsAct,theTruthin

LendingAct,theHomeMortgageDisclosureAct,andtheRealEstateSettlementProceduresAct,and

variousstatelawcounterparts.
Inaddition,federallawcurrentlycontainsextensivecustomerprivacyprotectionprovisions.Under
theseprovisions,afinancialinstitutionmustprovidetoitscustomers,attheinceptionofthecustomer

relationshipandannuallythereafter,theinstitution™spoliciesandproceduresregardingthehandlingof

customers™nonpublicpersonalfinancialinformation.Theseprovisionsalsoprovidethat,exceptforcertain

limitedexceptions,afinancialinstitutionmaynotprovidesuchpersonalinformationtounaffiliatedthird

partiesunlesstheinstitutiondisclosestothecustomerthatsuchinformationmaybesoprovidedandthe

customerisgiventheopportunitytooptoutofsuchdisclosure.Federallawmakesitacriminaloffense,

exceptinlimitedcircumstances,toobtainorattempttoobtaincustomerinformationofafinancialnature

byfraudulentordeceptivemeans.
SinceJuly1,2010,afederalbankingruleundertheElectronicFundTransferActprohibitsfinancial
institutionsfromchargingconsumersfeesforpayingoverdraftsonautomatedtellermachines(ﬁATMﬂ)and

one-timedebitcardtransactions,unlessaconsumerconsents,oroptsin,totheoverdraftserviceforthose

typeoftransactions.Ifaconsumerdoesnotoptin,anyATMtransactionordebitthatoverdrawsthe

consumer™saccountwillbedenied.Overdraftsonthepaymentofchecksandregularelectronicbill

paymentsarenotcoveredbythisrule.Beforeoptingin,theconsumermustbeprovidedanoticethat

explainsthefinancialinstitution™soverdraftservices,includingthefeesassociatedwiththeservice,andthe

consumer™schoices.Financialinstitutionsmustprovideconsumerswhodonotoptinwiththesame

accountterms,conditionsandfeatures(includingpricing)thattheyprovidetoconsumerswhodooptin.
ConsumerFinancialProtectionBureauSupervision
M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.aresupervisedbytheCFPBforcertainconsumerprotection

purposes.TheCFPBhasfocusedon:
Šriskstoconsumersandcompliancewiththefederalconsumerfinanciallaws,whenitevaluatesthe

policiesandpracticesofafinancialinstitution;
Šthemarketsinwhichfirmsoperateandriskstoconsumersposedbyactivitiesinthosemarkets;
Šdepositoryinstitutionsthatofferawidevarietyofconsumerfinancialproductsandservices;
Šdepositoryinstitutionswithamorespecializedfocus;and
Šnon-depositorycompaniesthatofferoneormoreconsumerfinancialproductsorservices.
CommunityReinvestmentAct
M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.aresubjecttotheprovisionsoftheCRA.Underthetermsofthe

CRA,eachappropriatefederalbankregulatoryagencyisrequired,inconnectionwithitsexaminationofa

bank,toassesssuchbank™srecordinassessingandmeetingthecreditneedsofthecommunitiesservedby

thatbank,includinglow-andmoderate-incomeneighborhoods.Duringtheseexaminations,theregulatory

agencyratessuchbank™scompliancewiththeCRAasﬁOutstanding,ﬂﬁSatisfactory,ﬂﬁNeedstoImproveﬂor

ﬁSubstantialNoncompliance.ﬂTheregulatoryagency™sassessmentoftheinstitution™srecordispartofthe

regulatoryagency™sconsiderationofapplicationstoacquire,mergeorconsolidatewithanotherbanking
18institutionoritsholdingcompany,ortoopenorrelocateabranchoffice.Currently,M&TBankhasaCRA
ratingofﬁOutstandingﬂandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.hasaCRAratingofﬁSatisfactory.ﬂInthecaseofa

BHCapplyingforapprovaltoacquireabankorBHC,theFederalReserveBoardwillassesstherecordof

eachsubsidiarybankoftheapplicantBHCinconsideringtheapplication,andsuchrecordsmaybethebasis

fordenyingtheapplication.TheBankingLawcontainsprovisionssimilartotheCRAwhichareapplicable

toNewYork-charteredbanks.Currently,M&TBankhasaCRAratingofﬁOutstandingﬂasdeterminedby

theNewYorkStateDepartmentofFinancialServices.
USAPatriotAct
TheUnitingandStrengtheningAmericabyProvidingAppropriateToolsRequiredtoInterceptand

ObstructTerrorismActof2001(theﬁUSAPatriotActﬂ)imposesobligationsonU.S.financialinstitutions,

includingbanksandbroker/dealersubsidiaries,toimplementandmaintainappropriatepolicies,procedures

andcontrolswhicharereasonablydesignedtoprevent,detectandreportinstancesofmoneylaunderingand

thefinancingofterrorismandtoverifytheidentityoftheircustomers.Inaddition,provisionsoftheUSA

PatriotActrequirethefederalfinancialinstitutionregulatoryagenciestoconsidertheeffectivenessofa

financialinstitution™santi-moneylaunderingactivitieswhenreviewingbankmergersandBHCacquisitions.

Failureofafinancialinstitutiontomaintainandimplementadequateprogramstocombatmoney

launderingandterroristfinancingcouldhaveseriouslegalandreputationalconsequencesforthe

institution.AsaresultofaninspectionbytheFederalReserveBankofNewYork(ﬁFederalReserveBankﬂ),

M&TandM&TBankenteredintoawrittenagreementwiththeFederalReserveBankrelatedtoM&T

Bank™sBankSecrecyAct/Anti-MoneyLaunderingProgram.AdditionalinformationisincludedinPartII,

Item7underthecaptionﬁCorporateProfileandSignificantDevelopments.ﬂ
OfficeofForeignAssetsControlRegulation
TheUnitedStateshasimposedeconomicsanctionsthataffecttransactionswithdesignatedforeign

countries,nationalsandothers.ThesearetypicallyknownastheﬁOFACﬂrulesbasedontheir

administrationbytheU.S.TreasuryDepartmentOfficeofForeignAssetsControl(ﬁOFACﬂ).TheOFAC-

administeredsanctionstargetingcountriestakemanydifferentforms.Generally,however,theycontainone

ormoreofthefollowingelements:(i)restrictionsontradewithorinvestmentinasanctionedcountry,

includingprohibitionsagainstdirectorindirectimportsfromandexportstoasanctionedcountryand

prohibitionsonﬁU.S.personsﬂengaginginfinancialtransactionsrelatingtomakinginvestmentsin,or

providinginvestment-relatedadviceorassistanceto,asanctionedcountry;and(ii)ablockingofassetsin

whichthegovernmentorspeciallydesignatednationalsofthesanctionedcountryhaveaninterest,by

prohibitingtransfersofpropertysubjecttoU.S.jurisdiction(includingpropertyinthepossessionorcontrol

ofU.S.persons).Blockedassets(e.g.propertyandbankdeposits)cannotbepaidout,withdrawn,setoffor

transferredinanymannerwithoutalicensefromOFAC.Failuretocomplywiththesesanctionscouldhave

seriouslegalandreputationalconsequences.
RegulationofInsurersandInsuranceBrokers
TheCompany™soperationsintheareasofinsurancebrokerageandreinsuranceofcreditlifeinsuranceare

subjecttoregulationandsupervisionbyvariousstateinsuranceregulatoryauthorities.Althoughthescope

ofregulationandformofsupervisionmayvaryfromstatetostate,insurancelawsgenerallygrantbroad

discretiontoregulatoryauthoritiesinadoptingregulationsandsupervisingregulatedactivities.This

supervisiongenerallyincludesthelicensingofinsurancebrokersandagentsandtheregulationofthe

handlingofcustomerfundsheldinafiduciarycapacity.CertainofM&T™sinsurancecompanysubsidiaries

aresubjecttoextensiveregulatorysupervisionandtoinsurancelawsandregulationsrequiring,amongother

things,maintenanceofcapital,recordkeeping,reportingandexaminations.
GovernmentalPolicies
TheearningsoftheCompanyaresignificantlyaffectedbythemonetaryandfiscalpoliciesofgovernmental

authorities,includingtheFederalReserveBoard.Amongtheinstrumentsofmonetarypolicyusedbythe

FederalReserveBoardtoimplementtheseobjectivesareopen-marketoperationsinU.S.Government

securitiesandfederalfunds,changesinthediscountrateonmemberbankborrowingsandchangesin

reserverequirementsagainstmemberbankdeposits.Theseinstrumentsofmonetarypolicyareusedin

varyingcombinationstoinfluencetheoveralllevelofbankloans,investmentsanddeposits,andtheinterest

rateschargedonloansandpaidfordeposits.TheFederalReserveBoardfrequentlyusestheseinstrumentsof
19monetarypolicy,especiallyitsopen-marketoperationsandthediscountrate,toinfluencethelevelof
interestratesandtoaffectthestrengthoftheeconomy,thelevelofinflationorthepriceofthedollarin

foreignexchangemarkets.ThemonetarypoliciesoftheFederalReserveBoardhavehadasignificanteffect

ontheoperatingresultsofbankinginstitutionsinthepastandareexpectedtocontinuetodosointhe

future.Itisnotpossibletopredictthenatureoffuturechangesinmonetaryandfiscalpolicies,ortheeffect

whichtheymayhaveontheCompany™sbusinessandearnings.
CompetitionTheCompanycompetesinofferingcommercialandpersonalfinancialserviceswithotherbanking

institutionsandwithfirmsinanumberofotherindustries,suchasthriftinstitutions,creditunions,

personalloancompanies,salesfinancecompanies,leasingcompanies,securitiesfirmsandinsurance

companies.Furthermore,diversifiedfinancialservicescompaniesareabletoofferacombinationofthese

servicestotheircustomersonanationwidebasis.TheCompany™soperationsaresignificantlyimpactedby

stateandfederalregulationsapplicabletothebankingindustry.Moreover,theprovisionsoftheGramm-

Leach-BlileyActof1999,theInterstateBankingActandtheBankingLawhaveallowedforincreased

competitionamongdiversifiedfinancialservicesproviders.
OtherLegislativeandRegulatoryInitiatives
ProposalsmaybeintroducedintheUnitedStatesCongressandstatelegislatures,aswellasbyregulatory

agencies.Suchinitiativesmayincludeproposalstoexpandorcontractthepowersofbankholding

companiesanddepositoryinstitutionsorproposalstosubstantiallychangethefinancialinstitution

regulatorysystem.Suchlegislationcouldchangebankingstatutesandtheoperatingenvironmentofthe

Companyinsubstantialandunpredictableways.Ifenacted,suchlegislationcouldincreaseordecreasethe

costofdoingbusiness,limitorexpandpermissibleactivitiesoraffectthecompetitivebalanceamongbanks,

savingsassociations,creditunions,andotherfinancialinstitutions.Achangeinstatutes,regulationsor

regulatorypoliciesapplicabletoM&Toranyofitssubsidiariescouldhaveamaterialeffectonthebusiness,

financialconditionorresultsofoperationsoftheCompany.
OtherInformation
ThroughalinkontheInvestorRelationssectionofM&T™swebsiteatwww.mtb.com,copiesofM&T™s

AnnualReportsonForm10-K,QuarterlyReportsonForm10-QandCurrentReportsonForm8-K,and

amendmentstothosereportsfiledorfurnishedpursuanttoSection13(a)or15(d)oftheExchangeAct,are

madeavailable,freeofcharge,assoonasreasonablypracticableafterelectronicallyfilingsuchmaterialwith,

orfurnishingitto,theSEC.Copiesofsuchreportsandotherinformationarealsoavailableatnochargeto

anypersonwhorequeststhemoratwww.sec.gov.SuchrequestsmaybedirectedtoM&TBank

Corporation,ShareholderRelationsDepartment,OneM&TPlaza,8thFloor,Buffalo,NY14203-2399

(Telephone:(716)842-5138).
CorporateGovernance
M&T™sCorporateGovernanceStandardsandthefollowingcorporategovernancedocumentsarealso

availableonM&T™swebsiteattheInvestorRelationslink:DisclosureandRegulationFDPolicy;Executive

CommitteeCharter;Nomination,CompensationandGovernanceCommitteeCharter;AuditCommittee

Charter;RiskCommitteeCharter;FinancialReportingandDisclosureControlsandProceduresPolicy;

CodeofEthicsforCEOandSeniorFinancialOfficers;CodeofBusinessConductandEthics;Employee

ComplaintProceduresforAccountingandAuditingMatters;andExcessiveorLuxuryExpendituresPolicy.

Copiesofsuchgovernancedocumentsarealsoavailable,freeofcharge,toanypersonwhorequeststhem.

SuchrequestsmaybedirectedtoM&TBankCorporation,ShareholderRelationsDepartment,OneM&T

Plaza,8thFloor,Buffalo,NY14203-2399(Telephone:(716)842-5138).
StatisticalDisclosurePursuanttoGuide3
Seecross-referencesheetfordisclosuresincorporatedelsewhereinthisAnnualReportonForm10-K.

Additionalinformationisincludedinthefollowingtables.
20Table1
SELECTEDCONSOLIDATEDYEAR-ENDBALANCES
20142013201220112010(Inthousands)
Interest-bearingdepositsatbanks
......$
6,470,867$1,651,138$129,945$154,960$101,222
Federalfundssold
...................83,39299,5733,0002,85025,000
Tradingaccount
....................308,175376,131488,966561,834523,834
Investmentsecurities
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies...12,042,3907,770,7674,007,7255,200,4894,177,783

Obligationsofstatesandpolitical
subdivisions...................157,159180,495203,004228,949251,544
Other...........................793,993845,2351,863,6322,243,7162,721,213
Totalinvestmentsecurities
.......12,993,5428,796,4976,074,3617,673,1547,150,540
Loansandleases
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc....19,617,25318,876,16617,973,14015,952,10513,645,600

RealestateŠconstruction
.........5,061,2694,457,6503,772,4134,203,3244,332,618
RealestateŠmortgage
............31,250,96830,711,44033,494,35928,202,21722,854,160
Consumer.......................10,969,87910,280,52711,550,27412,020,22911,483,564
Totalloansandleases
............66,899,36964,325,78366,790,18660,377,87552,315,942
Unearneddiscount
................(230,413)(252,624)(219,229)(281,870)(325,560)
Loansandleases,netofunearned
discount....................66,668,95664,073,15966,570,95760,096,00551,990,382
Allowanceforcreditlosses
..........(919,562)(916,676)(925,860)(908,290)(902,941)
Loansandleases,net
............65,749,39463,156,48365,645,09759,187,71551,087,441
Goodwill..........................3,524,6253,524,6253,524,6253,524,6253,524,625
Coredepositandotherintangible
assets...........................35,02768,851115,763176,394125,917
Realestateandotherassetsowned
.....63,63566,875104,279156,592220,049
Totalassets
........................96,685,53585,162,39183,008,80377,924,28768,021,263
Noninterest-bearingdeposits
.........26,947,88024,661,00724,240,80220,017,88314,557,568
NOWaccounts
.....................2,307,8151,989,4411,979,6191,912,2261,393,349
Savingsdeposits
....................41,085,80336,621,58033,783,94731,001,08326,431,281
Timedeposits
......................3,063,9733,523,8384,562,3666,107,5305,817,170
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
......176,582322,7461,044,519355,9271,605,916
Totaldeposits
..................73,582,05367,118,61265,611,25359,394,64949,805,284
Short-termborrowings
..............192,676260,4551,074,482782,082947,432
Long-termborrowings
...............9,006,9595,108,8704,607,7586,686,2267,840,151
Totalliabilities
.....................84,349,63973,856,85972,806,21068,653,07859,663,568
Shareholders™equity
.................12,335,89611,305,53210,202,5939,271,2098,357,695
Table2
SHAREHOLDERS,EMPLOYEESANDOFFICES
NumberatYear-End
20142013201220112010Shareholders.....................................14,55115,01515,62315,95912,773
Employees.......................................15,78215,89314,94315,66613,365
Offices..........................................766796799849778
21Table3
CONSOLIDATEDEARNINGS
20142013201220112010(Inthousands)
Interestincome
Loansandleases,includingfees
...................$2,596,586$2,734,708$2,704,156$2,522,567$2,394,082
Depositsatbanks
..............................13,3615,2011,2212,93488
Federalfundssold
.............................64104215742
Resellagreements
..............................Š10Š132404
Tradingaccount
...............................1,1191,2651,1261,198615
Investmentsecurities
Fullytaxable
................................340,391209,244227,116256,057324,695
Exemptfromfederaltaxes
.....................5,3566,8028,0459,1429,869
Totalinterestincome
.........................2,956,8772,957,3342,941,6852,792,0872,729,795
Interestexpense
NOWaccounts
................................1,4041,2871,3431,145850
Savingsdeposits
...............................45,46554,94868,01184,31485,226
Timedeposits
.................................15,51526,43946,10271,014100,241
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
.................699
1,0181,1309621,368
Short-termborrowings
.........................101430
1,2861,0303,006
Long-termborrowings
..........................217,247199,983225,297243,866271,578
Totalinterestexpense
.........................280,431284,105343,169402,331462,269
Netinterestincome
............................2,676,4462,673,2292,598,5162,389,7562,267,526
Provisionforcreditlosses
.......................124,000185,000204,000270,000368,000
Netinterestincomeafterprovisionforcreditlosses...2,552,4462,488,2292,394,5162,119,7561,899,526
Otherincome
Mortgagebankingrevenues
......................362,912331,265349,064166,021184,625
Servicechargesondepositaccounts
...............427,956446,941446,698455,095478,133
Trustincome
.................................508,258496,008471,852332,385122,613
Brokerageservicesincome
.......................67,21265,64759,05956,47049,669
Tradingaccountandforeignexchangegains
........29,87440,82835,63427,22427,286
Gainonbankinvestmentsecurities
................Š
56,4579150,1872,770
Totalother-than-temporaryimpairment(ﬁOTTIﬂ)
losses......................................Š
(1,884)(32,067)(72,915)(115,947)
PortionofOTTIlossesrecognizedinother
comprehensiveincome(beforetaxes)
............Š
(7,916)(15,755)(4,120)29,666
NetOTTIlossesrecognizedinearnings
............Š
(9,800)(47,822)(77,035)(86,281)
EquityinearningsofBayviewLendingGroupLLC...(16,672)(16,126)(21,511)(24,231)(25,768)

Otherrevenuesfromoperations
..................399,733453,985374,287496,796355,053
Totalotherincome
...........................1,779,2731,865,2051,667,2701,582,9121,108,100
Otherexpense
Salariesandemployeebenefits
....................1,404,9501,355,1781,314,5401,203,993999,709
Equipmentandnetoccupancy
...................269,299264,327257,551249,514216,064
Printing,postageandsupplies
....................38,20139,55741,92940,91733,847
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangible
assets......................................33,82446,91260,63161,61758,103
FDICassessments
..............................55,53169,584101,110100,23079,324
Othercostsofoperations
........................941,052860,327733,499821,797527,790
Totalotherexpense
..........................2,742,8572,635,8852,509,2602,478,0681,914,837
Incomebeforeincometaxes
.....................1,588,8621,717,5491,552,5261,224,6001,092,789
Incometaxes
..................................522,616579,069523,028365,121356,628
Netincome
...................................$1,066,246$1,138,480$1,029,498$859,479$736,161
Dividendsdeclared
Common..................................$
371,137$365,171$357,862$350,196$335,502
Preferred...................................75,87853,45053,45048,20340,225
22Table4
COMMONSHAREHOLDERDATA
20142013201220112010Pershare
Netincome
Basic........................................$
7.47$8.26$7.57$6.37$5.72
Diluted......................................7.428.207.546.355.69
Cashdividendsdeclared
..........................2.802.802.802.802.80
Commonshareholders™equityatyear-end
...........83.8879.8172.7366.8263.54
Tangiblecommonshareholders™equityatyear-end
....57.0652.4544.6137.7933.26
Dividendpayoutratio
............................37.49%33.94%36.98%44.15%48.98%
Table5
CHANGESININTERESTINCOMEANDEXPENSE(a)
2014Comparedwith2013
2013Comparedwith2012
TotalChangeResultingfrom
Changesin:
TotalChangeResultingfrom
Changesin:
VolumeRateVolumeRate(Increase(decrease)inthousands)
Interestincome
Loansandleases,includingfees
.............$(138,676)(16,282)(122,394)$29,624100,052(70,428)
Depositsatbanks
.........................8,1607,9382223,9803,92555
Federalfundssoldandagreementstoresell
securities.............................(50)(29)(21)93128(35)
Tradingaccount
.........................(101)(27)(74)88(298)386
Investmentsecurities
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
.........138,299158,630(20,331)15,37919,078(3,699)
Obligationsofstatesandpolitical
subdivisions.........................(1,884)(1,395)(489)(1,639)(1,339)(300)
Other................................(7,534)(19,986)12,452(33,296)(30,940)(2,356)
Totalinterestincome
...................$
(1,786)$14,229
Interestexpense
Interest-bearingdeposits
NOWaccounts
........................$117117Š$
(56)110(166)
Savingsdeposits
........................(9,483)5,494(14,977)(13,063)5,798(18,861)
Timedeposits
.........................(10,924)(4,401)(6,523)(19,663)(9,814)(9,849)
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
.........(319)(319)Š(112)(223)111
Short-termborrowings
....................(329)(149)(180)(856)(570)(286)
Long-termborrowings
....................17,26484,315(67,051)(25,314)(23,672)(1,642)
Totalinterestexpense
...................$
(3,674)$(59,064)
(a)Interestincomedataareonataxable-equivalentbasis.Theapportionmentofchangesresultingfromthe
combinedeffectofbothvolumeandratewasbasedontheseparatelydeterminedvolumeandratechanges.
Item1A.
RiskFactors.
M&Tanditssubsidiariescouldbeadverselyimpactedbyvariousrisksanduncertaintieswhicharedifficult
topredict.Asafinancialinstitution,theCompanyhassignificantexposuretomarketrisk,including

interest-raterisk,liquidityriskandcreditrisk,amongothers.Adverseexperiencewiththeseorotherrisks

couldhaveamaterialimpactontheCompany™sfinancialconditionandresultsofoperations,aswellason

thevalueoftheCompany™sfinancialinstrumentsingeneral,andM&T™scommonstock,inparticular.
23WeaknessintheeconomyhasadverselyaffectedtheCompanyinthepastandmayadverselyaffecttheCompany
inthefuture.
PoorbusinessandeconomicconditionsingeneralorspecificallyinmarketsservedbytheCompanycould
haveoneormoreofthefollowingadverseeffectsontheCompany™sbusiness:
ŠAdecreaseinthedemandforloansandotherproductsandservicesofferedbytheCompany.
ŠAdecreaseinnetinterestincomederivedfromtheCompany™slendinganddepositgathering

activities.ŠAdecreaseinthevalueoftheCompany™sinvestmentsecurities,loansheldforsaleorotherassets

securedbyresidentialorcommercialrealestate.
ŠOther-than-temporaryimpairmentofinvestmentsecuritiesintheCompany™sinvestmentsecurities

portfolio.ŠAdecreaseinfeesfromtheCompany™sbrokerageandtrustbusinessesassociatedwithdeclinesor

lackofgrowthinstockmarketprices.
ŠPotentialhigherFDICassessmentsduetotheDIFfallingbelowminimumrequiredlevels.
ŠAnimpairmentofcertainintangibleassets,suchasgoodwill.
ŠAnincreaseinthenumberofcustomersandcounterpartieswhobecomedelinquent,filefor

protectionunderbankruptcylawsordefaultontheirloansorotherobligationstotheCompany.An

increaseinthenumberofdelinquencies,bankruptciesordefaultscouldresultinhigherlevelsof

nonperformingassets,netcharge-offs,provisionforcreditlossesandvaluationadjustmentsonloans

heldforsale
.TheCompany™sbusinessandfinancialperformanceisimpactedsignificantlybymarketinterestratesand
movementsinthoserates.Themonetary,taxandotherpoliciesofgovernmentalagencies,includingtheFederal

Reserve,haveasignificantimpactoninterestratesandoverallfinancialmarketperformanceoverwhichthe

CompanyhasnocontrolandwhichtheCompanymaynotbeabletoanticipateadequately
.AsaresultofthehighpercentageoftheCompany™sassetsandliabilitiesthatareintheformofinterest-
bearingorinterest-relatedinstruments,changesininterestrates,intheshapeoftheyieldcurveorinspreads

betweendifferentmarketinterestrates,canhaveamaterialeffectontheCompany™sbusinessand

profitabilityandthevalueoftheCompany™sassetsandliabilities.Forexample:
ŠChangesininterestratesorinterestratespreadscanaffectthedifferencebetweentheinterestthatthe

CompanyearnsonassetsandtheinterestthattheCompanypaysonliabilities,whichimpactsthe

Company™soverallnetinterestincomeandprofitability.
ŠSuchchangescanaffecttheabilityofborrowerstomeetobligationsundervariableoradjustablerate

loansandotherdebtinstruments,andcan,inturn,affecttheCompany™slossratesonthoseassets.
ŠSuchchangesmaydecreasethedemandforinterestratebasedproductsandservices,includingloans

anddeposits.
ŠSuchchangescanalsoaffecttheCompany™sabilitytohedgevariousformsofmarketandinterestrate

riskandmaydecreasetheprofitabilityorprotectionorincreasetheriskorcostassociatedwithsuch

hedges.ŠMovementsininterestratesalsoaffectmortgageprepaymentspeedsandcouldresultinthe

impairmentofcapitalizedmortgageservicingassets,reducethevalueofloansheldforsaleand

increasethevolatilityofmortgagebankingrevenues,potentiallyadverselyaffectingtheCompany™s

resultsofoperations.
Themonetary,taxandotherpoliciesofthegovernmentanditsagencies,includingtheFederal
Reserve,haveasignificantimpactoninterestratesandoverallfinancialmarketperformance.These

governmentalpoliciescanthusaffecttheactivitiesandresultsofoperationsofbankingcompaniessuchas

theCompany.AnimportantfunctionoftheFederalReserveistoregulatethenationalsupplyofbankcredit

andcertaininterestrates.TheactionsoftheFederalReserveinfluencetheratesofinterestthattheCompany

chargesonloansandthattheCompanypaysonborrowingsandinterest-bearingdepositsandcanalsoaffect

thevalueoftheCompany™son-balancesheetandoff-balancesheetfinancialinstruments.Also,duetothe

impactonratesforshort-termfunding,theFederalReserve™spoliciesalsoinfluence,toasignificantextent,

theCompany™scostofsuchfunding.Inaddition,theCompanyisroutinelysubjecttoexaminationsfrom

variousgovernmentaltaxingauthorities.Suchexaminationsmayresultinchallengestothetaxreturn

treatmentappliedbytheCompanytospecifictransactions.Managementbelievesthattheassumptionsand
24judgmentusedtorecordtax-relatedassetsorliabilitieshavebeenappropriate.Shouldtaxlawschangeorthe
taxauthoritiesdeterminethatmanagement™sassumptionswereinappropriate,theresultandadjustments

requiredcouldhaveamaterialeffectontheCompany™sresultsofoperations.M&Tcannotpredictthe

natureortimingoffuturechangesinmonetary,taxandotherpoliciesortheeffectthattheymayhaveon

theCompany™sbusinessactivities,financialconditionandresultsofoperations.
TheCompany™sbusinessandperformanceisvulnerabletotheimpactofvolatilityindebtandequitymarkets.
AsmostoftheCompany™sassetsandliabilitiesarefinancialinnature,theCompany™sperformancetendsto
besensitivetotheperformanceofthefinancialmarkets.TurmoilandvolatilityinU.S.andglobalfinancial

marketscanbeamajorcontributoryfactortooverallweakeconomicconditions,leadingtosomeofthe

risksdiscussedherein,includingtheimpairedabilityofborrowersandothercounterpartiestomeet

obligationstotheCompany.Financialmarketvolatilityalsocanhavesomeofthefollowingadverseeffects

ontheCompanyanditsbusiness,includingadverselyaffectingtheCompany™sfinancialconditionand

resultsofoperations:
ŠItcanaffectthevalueorliquidityoftheCompany™son-balancesheetandoff-balancesheetfinancial

instruments.ŠItcanaffectthevalueofcapitalizedservicingassets.
ŠItcanaffectM&T™sabilitytoaccesscapitalmarketstoraisefunds.Inabilitytoaccesscapitalmarkets

ifneeded,atcosteffectiverates,couldadverselyaffecttheCompany™sliquidityandresultsof

operations.ŠItcanaffectthevalueoftheassetsthattheCompanymanagesorotherwiseadministersorservices

forothers.AlthoughtheCompanyisnotdirectlyimpactedbychangesinthevalueofsuchassets,

decreasesinthevalueofthoseassetswouldaffectrelatedfeeincomeandcouldresultindecreased

demandfortheCompany™sservices.
ŠIngeneral,itcanimpactthenature,profitabilityorriskprofileofthefinancialtransactionsinwhich

theCompanyengages.
Volatilityinthemarketsforrealestateandotherassetscommonlysecuringfinancialproductshas
beenandmaycontinuetobeasignificantcontributortooverallvolatilityinfinancialmarkets.
TheCompany™sregionalconcentrationsexposeittoadverseeconomicconditionsinitsprimaryretailbanking
officefootprint.
TheCompany™scorebankingbusinessislargelyconcentratedwithintheCompany™sretailbankingoffice
networkfootprint,locatedprincipallyinNewYork,Pennsylvania,Maryland,Delaware,Virginia,West

VirginiaandtheDistrictofColumbia.Therefore,theCompanyis,orinthefuturemaybe,particularly

vulnerabletoadversechangesineconomicconditionsintheNortheastandMid-Atlanticregions.
RisksRelatingtotheRegulatoryEnvironment
TheCompanyissubjecttoextensivegovernmentregulationandsupervisionandthisregulatoryenvironmentis
beingsignificantlyimpactedbythefinancialregulatoryreforminitiativesintheUnitedStates,includingthe

Dodd-FrankActandrelatedregulations.
TheCompanyissubjecttoextensivefederalandstateregulationandsupervision.Bankingregulationsare
primarilyintendedtoprotectdepositors™funds,federaldepositinsurancefundsandthefinancialsystemasa

whole,notsecurityholders.TheseregulationsandsupervisoryguidanceaffecttheCompany™slending

practices,capitalstructure,amountsofcapital,investmentpractices,dividendpolicyandgrowth,among

otherthings.Failuretocomplywithlaws,regulations,policiesorsupervisoryguidancecouldresultincivil

orcriminalpenalties,includingmonetarypenalties,thelossofFDICinsurance,therevocationofabanking

charter,othersanctionsbyregulatoryagencies,and/orreputationdamage,whichcouldhaveamaterial

adverseeffectontheCompany™sbusiness,financialconditionandresultsofoperations.Inthisregard,

governmentauthorities,includingthebankregulatoryagencies,arepursuingaggressiveenforcement

actionswithrespecttocomplianceandotherlegalmattersinvolvingfinancialactivities,whichheightensthe

risksassociatedwithactualandperceivedcompliancefailuresandmayalsoadverselyaffecttheCompany™s

abilitytoenterintocertaintransactionsorengageincertainactivities,orobtainnecessaryregulatory

approvalsinconnectiontherewith.
25TheUnitedStatesgovernmentandothershaverecentlyundertakenmajorreformsoftheregulatory
oversightstructureofthefinancialservicesindustry.M&Texpectstofaceincreasedregulationofits

industryasaresultofcurrentandpossiblefutureinitiatives.M&Talsoexpectsmoreintensescrutinyinthe

examinationprocessandmoreaggressiveenforcementofregulationsonboththefederalandstatelevels.

CompliancewiththesenewregulationsandsupervisoryinitiativeswilllikelyincreasetheCompany™scosts,

reduceitsrevenueandmaylimititsabilitytopursuecertaindesirablebusinessopportunities.
NotalloftherulesrequiredorexpectedtobeimplementedundertheDodd-FrankActhavebeen
proposedoradopted,andcertainoftherulesthathavebeenproposedoradoptedundertheDodd-Frank

Actaresubjecttophase-inortransitionalperiods.Reforms,bothundertheDodd-FrankActandotherwise,

willhaveasignificanteffectontheentirefinancialservicesindustry.Althoughitisdifficulttopredictthe

magnitudeandextentoftheseeffects,M&Tbelievescompliancewithnewregulationsandotherinitiatives

willlikelynegativelyimpactrevenueandincreasethecostofdoingbusiness,bothintermsoftransition

expensesandonanongoingbasis,andmayalsolimitM&T™sabilitytopursuecertaindesirablebusiness

opportunities.Anynewregulatoryrequirementsorchangestoexistingrequirementscouldrequirechanges

totheCompany™sbusinesses,resultinincreasedcompliancecostsandaffecttheprofitabilityofsuch

businesses.Additionally,reformcouldaffectthebehaviorsofthirdpartiesthattheCompanydealswithin

thecourseofitsbusiness,suchasratingagencies,insurancecompaniesandinvestors.Heightenedregulatory

practices,requirementsorexpectationscouldaffecttheCompanyinsubstantialandunpredictableways,

and,inturn,couldhaveamaterialadverseeffectontheCompany™sbusiness,financialconditionandresults

ofoperations.
NewcapitalandliquiditystandardsadoptedbytheU.S.bankingregulatorswillresultinbanksandbank
holdingcompaniesneedingtomaintainmoreandhigherqualitycapitalandgreaterliquiditythanhas

historicallybeenthecase.
Newcapitalstandards,bothasaresultoftheDodd-FrankActandthenewU.S.BaselIII-basedcapitalrules
willhaveasignificanteffectonbanksandbankholdingcompanies,includingM&T.ThenewU.S.capital

rulesrequirebankholdingcompaniesandtheirbanksubsidiariestomaintainsubstantiallymorecapital,

withagreateremphasisoncommonequity.Foradditionalinformation,seeﬁCapitalRequirementsﬂunder

PartI,Item1ﬁBusiness.ﬂ
Theneedtomaintainmoreandhigherqualitycapital,aswellasgreaterliquidity,goingforwardthan
historicallyhasbeenrequired,andgenerallyincreasedregulatoryscrutinywithrespecttocapitallevels,

couldlimittheCompany™sbusinessactivities,includinglending,anditsabilitytoexpand,eitherorganically

orthroughacquisitions.ItcouldalsoresultinM&Tbeingrequiredtotakestepstoincreaseitsregulatory

capitalthatmaybedilutivetoshareholdersorlimititsabilitytopaydividendsorotherwisereturncapitalto

shareholders,orsellorrefrainfromacquiringassets,thecapitalrequirementsforwhicharenotjustifiedby

theassets™underlyingrisks.
Inaddition,thenewU.S.finalBaselIII-basedliquiditycoverageratiorequirementthatwillcome
intoeffect,subjecttocertainphase-inrequirements,in2016andtheliquidity-relatedprovisionsofthe

FederalReserve™sliquidity-relatedenhancedprudentialsupervisionrequirementsadoptedpursuantto

Section165ofDodd-FrankwillrequiretheCompanytoholdincreasedlevelsofunencumberedhighly

liquidinvestments,therebyreducingtheCompany™sabilitytoinvestinotherlonger-termassetsevenif

deemedmoredesirablefromabalancesheetmanagementperspective.Moreover,althoughthesenew

requirementsarebeingphasedinovertime,U.S.federalbankingagencieshavebeentakingintoaccount

expectationsregardingtheabilityofbankstomeetthesenewrequirements,includingunderstressed

conditions,inapprovingactionsthatrepresentusesofcapital,suchasdividendincreases,sharerepurchases

andacquisitions.
TheeffectofresolutionplanrequirementsmayhaveamaterialadverseimpactonM&T.
Bankholdingcompanieswithconsolidatedassetsof$50billionormore,suchasM&T,arerequiredto
reportperiodicallytoregulatorsaresolutionplanfortheirrapidandorderlyresolutionintheeventof

materialfinancialdistressorfailure.M&T™sresolutionplanmust,amongotherthings,ensurethatits

depositoryinstitutionsubsidiariesareadequatelyprotectedfromrisksarisingfromitsothersubsidiaries.

TheregulationadoptedbytheFederalReserveandFDICsetsspecificstandardsfortheresolutionplans,

includingrequiringastrategicanalysisoftheplan™scomponents,adescriptionoftherangeofspecific
26actionstheCompanyproposestotakeinresolution,andadescriptionoftheCompany™sorganizational
structure,materialentities,interconnectionsandinterdependencies,andmanagementinformationsystems,

amongotherelements.ToaddresseffectivelyanyshortcomingsintheCompany™sresolutionplan,the

FederalReserveandtheFDICcouldrequiretheCompanytochangeitsbusinessstructureordisposeof

businesses,whichcouldhaveamaterialadverseeffectonitsliquidityandabilitytopaydividendsonits

stockorinterestandprincipalonitsdebt.
RisksRelatingtotheCompany™sBusiness
DeterioratingcreditqualitycouldadverselyimpacttheCompany.

Asalender,theCompanyisexposedtotheriskthatcustomerswillbeunabletorepaytheirloansin
accordancewiththetermsoftheagreements,andthatanycollateralsecuringtheloansmaybeinsufficient

toassurefullrepayment.Creditlossesareinherentinthebusinessofmakingloans.
FactorsthatinfluencetheCompany™screditlossexperienceincludeoveralleconomicconditions
affectingbusinessesandconsumers,generally,butalsoresidentialandcommercialrealestatevaluations,in

particular,giventhesizeoftheCompany™srealestateloanportfolios.Factorsthatcaninfluencethe

Company™screditlossexperienceinclude:(i)theimpactofresidentialrealestatevaluesonloansto

residentialrealestatebuildersanddevelopersandotherloanssecuredbyresidentialrealestate;(ii)the

concentrationsofcommercialrealestateloansintheCompany™sloanportfolio;(iii)theamountof

commercialandindustrialloanstobusinessesinareasofNewYorkStateoutsideoftheNewYorkCity

metropolitanareaandincentralPennsylvaniathathavehistoricallyexperiencedlesseconomicgrowthand

vitalitythanmanyotherregionsofthecountry;(iv)therepaymentperformanceassociatedwithfirstand

secondlienloanssecuredbyresidentialrealestate;and(v)thesizeoftheCompany™sportfolioofloansto

individualconsumers,whichhistoricallyhaveexperiencedhighernetcharge-offsasapercentageofloans

outstandingthanloanstoothertypesofborrowers.
Commercialrealestatevaluationscanbehighlysubjectiveastheyarebaseduponmanyassumptions.
Suchvaluationscanbesignificantlyaffectedoverrelativelyshortperiodsoftimebychangesinbusiness

climate,economicconditions,interestratesand,inmanycases,theresultsofoperationsofbusinessesand

otheroccupantsoftherealproperty.Similarly,residentialrealestatevaluationscanbeimpactedbyhousing

trends,theavailabilityoffinancingatreasonableinterestrates,governmentalpolicyregardinghousingand

housingfinanceandgeneraleconomicconditionsaffectingconsumers.
TheCompanymaintainsanallowanceforcreditlosseswhichrepresents,inmanagement™sjudgment,
theamountoflossesinherentintheloanandleaseportfolio.Theallowanceisdeterminedbymanagement™s

evaluationoftheloanandleaseportfoliobasedonsuchfactorsasthedifferingeconomicrisksassociated

witheachloancategory,thecurrentfinancialconditionofspecificborrowers,theeconomicenvironmentin

whichborrowersoperate,thelevelofdelinquentloans,thevalueofanycollateraland,whereapplicable,the

existenceofanyguaranteesorindemnifications.Theeffectsofprobabledecreasesinexpectedprincipalcash

flowsonacquiredloansarealsoconsideredintheestablishmentoftheallowanceforcreditlosses.
Managementbelievesthattheallowanceforcreditlossesappropriatelyreflectscreditlossesinherent
intheloanandleaseportfolio.However,thereisnoassurancethattheallowancewillbesufficienttocover

suchcreditlosses,particularlyifhousingandemploymentconditionsworsenortheeconomyexperiencesa

downturn.Inthosecases,theCompanymayberequiredtoincreasetheallowancethroughanincreasein

theprovisionforcreditlosses,whichwouldreducenetincome.
TheCompanymustmaintainadequatesourcesoffundingandliquidity.
TheCompanymustmaintainadequatefundingsourcesinthenormalcourseofbusinesstosupportits
operationsandfundoutstandingliabilities,aswellasmeetregulatoryexpectations.TheCompanyprimarily

reliesondepositstobealowcostandstablesourceoffundingfortheloansitmakesandtheoperationsof

itsbusiness.Corecustomerdeposits,whichincludenoninterest-bearingdeposits,interest-bearing

transactionaccounts,savingsdepositsandtimedepositsof$250,000orless,havehistoricallyprovidedthe

Companywithasizeablesourceofrelativelystableandlow-costfunds.Inadditiontocustomerdeposits,

sourcesofliquidityincludeborrowingsfromthirdpartybanks,securitiesdealers,variousFederalHome

LoanBanksandtheFederalReserveBankofNewYork.
TheCompany™sliquidityandabilitytofundandrunthebusinesscouldbemateriallyadversely
affectedbyavarietyofconditionsandfactors,includingfinancialandcreditmarketdisruptionsand
27volatilityoralackofmarketorcustomerconfidenceinfinancialmarketsingeneral,whichmayresultina
lossofcustomerdepositsoroutflowsofcashorcollateraland/orabilitytoaccesscapitalmarketson

favorableterms.
OtherconditionsandfactorsthatcouldmateriallyadverselyaffecttheCompany™sliquidityand
fundingincludealackofmarketorcustomerconfidencein,ornegativenewsabout,theCompanyorthe

financialservicesindustrygenerallywhichalsomayresultinalossofdepositsand/ornegativelyaffectthe

abilitytoaccessthecapitalmarkets;thelossofcustomerdepositstoalternativeinvestments;inabilitytosell

orsecuritizeloansorotherassets;anddowngradesinoneormoreoftheCompany™screditratings.A

downgradeintheCompany™screditratings,whichcouldresultfromgeneralindustry-wideorregulatory

factorsnotsolelyrelatedtotheCompany,couldadverselyaffecttheCompany™sabilitytoborrowfundsand

raisethecostofborrowingssubstantiallyandcouldcausecreditorsandbusinesscounterpartiestoraise

collateralrequirementsortakeotheractionsthatcouldadverselyaffectM&T™sabilitytoraisecapital.Many

oftheaboveconditionsandfactorsmaybecausedbyeventsoverwhichM&Thaslittleornocontrol.There

canbenoassurancethatsignificantdisruptionandvolatilityinthefinancialmarketswillnotoccurinthe

future.Recentregulatorychangesrelatingtoliquidityandriskmanagementmayalsonegativelyimpactthe
Company™sresultsofoperationsandcompetitiveposition.Theseregulationsaddress,amongothermatters,

liquiditystresstesting,minimumliquidityrequirementsandrestrictionsonshort-termdebtissuedbytop-

tierholdingcompanies.
IftheCompanyisunabletocontinuetofundassetsthroughcustomerbankdepositsoraccess
fundingsourcesonfavorabletermsoriftheCompanysuffersanincreaseinborrowingcostsorotherwise

failstomanageliquidityeffectively,theCompany™sliquidity,operatingmargins,financialconditionand

resultsofoperationsmaybemateriallyadverselyaffected.
Thefinancialservicesindustryishighlycompetitiveandcreatescompetitivepressuresthatcouldadverselyaffect
theCompany™srevenueandprofitability.
ThefinancialservicesindustryinwhichtheCompanyoperatesishighlycompetitive.TheCompany
competesnotonlywithcommercialandotherbanksandthrifts,butalsowithinsurancecompanies,mutual

funds,hedgefunds,securitiesbrokeragefirmsandothercompaniesofferingfinancialservicesintheU.S.,

globallyandovertheInternet.TheCompanycompetesonthebasisofseveralfactors,includingcapital,

accesstocapital,revenuegeneration,products,services,transactionexecution,innovation,reputationand

price.Overtime,certainsectorsofthefinancialservicesindustryhavebecomemoreconcentrated,as

institutionsinvolvedinabroadrangeoffinancialserviceshavebeenacquiredbyormergedintootherfirms.

ThesedevelopmentscouldresultintheCompany™scompetitorsgaininggreatercapitalandotherresources,

suchasabroaderrangeofproductsandservicesandgeographicdiversity.TheCompanymayexperience

pricingpressuresasaresultofthesefactorsandassomeofitscompetitorsseektoincreasemarketshareby

reducingpricesorpayinghigherratesofinterestondeposits.Finally,technologicalchangeisinfluencing

howindividualsandfirmsconducttheirfinancialaffairsandchangingthedeliverychannelsforfinancial

services,withtheresultthattheCompanymayhavetocontendwithabroaderrangeofcompetitors

includingmanythatarenotlocatedwithinthegeographicfootprintofitsbankingofficenetwork.
M&Tmaybeadverselyaffectedbythesoundnessofotherfinancialinstitutions.
Financialservicesinstitutionsareinterrelatedasaresultoftrading,clearing,counterparty,orother
relationships.TheCompanyhasexposuretomanydifferentindustriesandcounterparties,androutinely

executestransactionswithcounterpartiesinthefinancialservicesindustry,includingcommercialbanks,

brokersanddealers,investmentbanks,andotherinstitutionalclients.Manyofthesetransactionsexposethe

Companytocreditriskintheeventofadefaultbyacounterpartyorclient.Inaddition,theCompany™s

creditriskmaybeexacerbatedwhenthecollateralheldbytheCompanycannotberealizedorisliquidated

atpricesnotsufficienttorecoverthefullamountofthecreditorderivativeexposureduetotheCompany.

AnysuchlossescouldhaveamaterialadverseeffectontheCompany™sfinancialconditionandresultsof

operations.M&Treliesondividendsfromitssubsidiariesforitsliquidity.
M&Tisaseparateanddistinctlegalentityfromitssubsidiaries.M&Ttypicallyreceivessubstantiallyallofits
revenuefromsubsidiarydividends.Thesedividendsaretheprincipalsourceoffundstopaydividendson
28M&Tstockandinterestandprincipalonitsdebt.Variousfederaland/orstatelawsandregulations,aswell
asregulatoryexpectations,limittheamountofdividendsthatM&T™sbankingsubsidiariesandcertain

nonbanksubsidiariesmaypay.Regulatoryscrutinyofcapitallevelsatbankholdingcompaniesandinsured

depositoryinstitutionsubsidiarieshasincreasedinrecentyearsandhasresultedinincreasedregulatory

focusonallaspectsofcapitalplanning,includingdividendsandotherdistributionstoshareholdersof

banks,suchasparentbankholdingcompanies.SeeﬁItem1.BusinessŠDividendsﬂforadiscussionof

regulatoryandotherrestrictionsondividenddeclarations.Also,M&T™srighttoparticipateinadistribution

ofassetsuponasubsidiary™sliquidationorreorganizationissubjecttothepriorclaimsofthatsubsidiary™s

creditors.LimitationsonM&T™sabilitytoreceivedividendsfromitssubsidiariescouldhaveamaterial

adverseeffectonitsliquidityandabilitytopaydividendsonitsstockorinterestandprincipalonitsdebt.
M&T™sabilitytopaydividendsoncommonstockmaybeadverselyaffectedbymarketandotherfactorsoutside
ofitscontrolandwilldepend,inpart,onareviewofitscapitalplanbytheFederalReserve.
TheFederalReserverecentlyamendeditscapitalplanningandstresstestingrulesto,amongotherthings,
generallylimitabankholdingcompany™sabilitytomakequarterlycapitaldistributionsŒthatis,dividends

andsharerepurchasesŒcommencingApril1,2015iftheamountofactualcumulativequarterlycapital

issuancesofinstrumentsthatqualifyasregulatorycapitalarelessthanthebankholdingcompanyhad

indicatedinitssubmittedcapitalplanastowhichitreceivedanon-objectionfromtheFederalReserve.

Underthesenewrules,forexample,ifabankholdingcompanyissuedasmalleramountofadditional

commonstockthanithadstatedinitscapitalplan,itwouldberequiredtoreducecommondividendsand/

ortheamountofcommonstockrepurchasessothatthedollaramountofcapitaldistributions,netofthe

dollaramountofadditionalcommonstockissued(ﬁnetdistributionsﬂ),isnogreaterthanthedollar

amountofnetdistributionsrelatingtoitscommonstockincludedinitscapitalplan,asmeasuredonan

aggregatebasisbeginninginthethirdquarterofthenine-quarterplanninghorizonthroughtheendofthe

thencurrentquarter.Assuch,M&T™sabilitytodeclareandpaydividendsonitscommonstock,aswellas

theamountofsuchdividends,willdepend,inpart,onitsabilitytoissuestockasperitscapitalplanorto

otherwiseremainincompliancewithitscapitalplan,whichmaybeadverselyaffectedbymarketandother

factorsoutsideofM&T™scontrol.
TheCompanyissubjecttooperationalrisk.
Likeallbusinesses,theCompanyissubjecttooperationalrisk,whichrepresentstheriskoflossresulting
fromhumanerror,inadequateorfailedinternalprocessesandsystems,andexternalevents.Operationalrisk

alsoencompassesreputationalriskandcomplianceandlegalrisk,whichistheriskoflossfromviolationsof,

ornoncompliancewith,laws,rules,regulations,prescribedpracticesorethicalstandards,aswellastherisk

ofnoncompliancewithcontractualandotherobligations.TheCompanyisalsoexposedtooperationalrisk

throughoutsourcingarrangements,andtheeffectthatchangesincircumstancesorcapabilitiesofits

outsourcingvendorscanhaveontheCompany™sabilitytocontinuetoperformoperationalfunctions

necessarytoitsbusiness.Inaddition,alongwithotherparticipantsinthefinancialservicesindustry,the

Companyfrequentlyattemptstointroducenewtechnology-drivenproductsandservicesthatareaimedat

allowingtheCompanytobetterservecustomersandtoreducecosts.TheCompanymaynotbeableto

effectivelyimplementnewtechnology-drivenproductsandservicesthatallowsittoremaincompetitiveor

besuccessfulinmarketingtheseproductsandservicestoitscustomers.AlthoughtheCompanyseeksto

mitigateoperationalriskthroughasystemofinternalcontrolsthatarereviewedandupdated,nosystemof

controls,howeverwelldesignedandmaintained,isinfallible.Controlweaknessesorfailuresorother

operationalriskscouldresultincharges,increasedoperationalcosts,harmtotheCompany™sreputationor

foregonebusinessopportunities.
ChangesinaccountingstandardscouldimpacttheCompany™sfinancialconditionandresultsofoperations.
Theaccountingstandardsetters,includingtheFinancialAccountingStandardsBoard(ﬁFASBﬂ),theSEC
andotherregulatorybodies,periodicallychangethefinancialaccountingandreportingstandardsthat

governthepreparationoftheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialstatements.Thesechangescanbehardto

predictandcanmateriallyimpacthowtheCompanyrecordsandreportsitsfinancialconditionandresults

ofoperations.Insomecases,theCompanycouldberequiredtoapplyaneworrevisedstandard

retroactively,whichwouldresultintherestatingoftheCompany™spriorperiodfinancialstatements.
29M&T™saccountingpoliciesandprocessesarecriticaltothereportingoftheCompany™sfinancialconditionand
resultsofoperations.Theyrequiremanagementtomakeestimatesaboutmattersthatareuncertain.
AccountingpoliciesandprocessesarefundamentaltotheCompany™sreportedfinancialconditionand
resultsofoperations.Someofthesepoliciesrequireuseofestimatesandassumptionsthatmayaffectthe

reportedamountsofassetsorliabilitiesandfinancialresults.SeveralofM&T™saccountingpoliciesare

criticalbecausetheyrequiremanagementtomakedifficult,subjectiveandcomplexjudgmentsabout

mattersthatareinherentlyuncertainandbecauseitislikelythatmateriallydifferentamountswouldbe

reportedunderdifferentconditionsorusingdifferentassumptions.Pursuanttogenerallyaccepted

accountingprinciples(ﬁGAAPﬂ),managementisrequiredtomakecertainassumptionsandestimatesin

preparingtheCompany™sfinancialstatements.IfassumptionsorestimatesunderlyingtheCompany™s

financialstatementsareincorrect,theCompanymayexperiencemateriallosses.
Managementhasidentifiedcertainaccountingpoliciesasbeingcriticalbecausetheyrequire
management™sjudgmenttoascertainthevaluationsofassets,liabilities,commitmentsandcontingencies.A

varietyoffactorscouldaffecttheultimatevaluethatisobtainedeitherwhenearningincome,recognizingan

expense,recoveringanasset,valuinganassetorliability,orrecognizingorreducingaliability.M&Thas

establisheddetailedpoliciesandcontrolproceduresthatareintendedtoensurethesecriticalaccounting

estimatesandjudgmentsarewellcontrolledandappliedconsistently.Inaddition,thepoliciesand

proceduresareintendedtoensurethattheprocessforchangingmethodologiesoccursinanappropriate

manner.Becauseoftheuncertaintysurroundingjudgmentsandtheestimatespertainingtothesematters,

M&Tcouldberequiredtoadjustaccountingpoliciesorrestatepriorperiodfinancialstatementsifthose

judgmentsandestimatesprovetobeincorrect.Foradditionalinformation,seePartII,Item7,

Management™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations,ﬁCritical

AccountingEstimatesﬂandNote1,ﬁSignificantAccountingPolicies,ﬂofNotestoFinancialStatementsin

PartII,Item8.
DifficultiesincombiningtheoperationsofacquiredentitieswiththeCompany™sownoperationsmayprevent
M&Tfromachievingtheexpectedbenefitsfromitsacquisitions.
M&Thasregularlyconsideredopportunitiestoexpandandimproveitsbusinessthroughacquisitionof
otherfinancialinstitutions.Inherentuncertaintiesexistwhenintegratingtheoperationsofanacquired

entity.M&Tmaynotbeabletofullyachieveitsstrategicobjectivesandplannedoperatingefficienciesinan

acquisition.Inaddition,themarketsandindustriesinwhichtheCompanyanditspotentialacquisition

targetsoperatearehighlycompetitive.TheCompanymaylosecustomersorfailtoretainthecustomersof

acquiredentitiesasaresultofanacquisition.FutureacquisitionandintegrationactivitiesmayrequireM&T

todevotesubstantialtimeandresources,andasaresultM&Tmaynotbeabletopursueotherbusiness

opportunities.Aftercompletinganacquisition,theCompanymaynotrealizetheexpectedbenefitsofthe
acquisitionduetolowerfinancialresultspertainingtotheacquiredentity.Forexample,theCompanycould

experiencehighercreditlossesthanoriginallyanticipatedrelatedtoanacquiredloanportfolio.
M&Tcouldsufferifitfailstoattractandretainskilledpersonnel.
M&T™ssuccessdepends,inlargepart,onitsabilitytoattractandretainkeyindividuals.Competitionfor
qualifiedcandidatesintheactivitiesandmarketsthattheCompanyservesissignificantandtheCompany

maynotbeabletohirethesecandidatesandretainthem.GrowthintheCompany™sbusiness,including

throughacquisitions,mayincreaseitsneedforadditionalqualifiedpersonnel.IftheCompanyisnotableto

hireorretainthesekeyindividuals,itmaybeunabletoexecuteitsbusinessstrategiesandmaysufferadverse

consequencestoitsbusiness,financialconditionandresultsofoperations.
Thefederalbankingagencieshaveissuedjointguidanceonexecutivecompensationdesignedtohelp
ensurethatabankingorganization™sincentivecompensationpoliciesdonotencourageimprudentrisk

takingandareconsistentwiththesafetyandsoundnessoftheorganization.Inaddition,theDodd-Frank

Actrequiredthoseagencies,alongwiththeSEC,toadoptrulestorequirereportingofincentive

compensationandtoprohibitcertaincompensationarrangements.Ifasaresultofcomplyingwithsuch

rulestheCompanyisunabletoattractandretainqualifiedemployees,ordosoatratesnecessaryto

maintainitscompetitiveposition,orifthecompensationcostsrequiredtoattractandretainemployees

becomemoresignificant,theCompany™sperformance,includingitscompetitiveposition,couldbe

materiallyadverselyaffected.
30Severeweather,naturaldisasters,actsofwarorterrorismandotherexternaleventscouldsignificantlyimpactthe
Company™sbusiness.
Severeweather,naturaldisasters,actsofwarorterrorismandotheradverseexternaleventscouldhavea
significantimpactontheCompany™sabilitytoconductbusiness.Sucheventscouldaffectthestabilityofthe

Company™sdepositbase,impairtheabilityofborrowerstorepayoutstandingloans,impairthevalueof

collateralsecuringloans,causesignificantpropertydamage,resultinlossofrevenueand/orcausethe

Companytoincuradditionalexpenses.AlthoughtheCompanyhasestablisheddisasterrecoveryplansand

procedures,andmonitorsforsignificantenvironmentaleffectsonitspropertiesoritsinvestments,the

occurrenceofanysucheventcouldhaveamaterialadverseeffectontheCompany.
TheCompany™sinformationsystemsmayexperienceinterruptionsorbreachesinsecurity.
TheCompanyreliesheavilyoncommunicationsandinformationsystemstoconductitsbusiness.Any
failure,interruptionorbreachinsecurityofthesesystemscouldresultindisruptionstoitsaccounting,

deposit,loanandothersystems,andadverselyaffecttheCompany™scustomerrelationships.Whilethe

Companyhaspoliciesandproceduresdesignedtopreventorlimittheeffectofthesepossibleevents,there

canbenoassurancethatanysuchfailure,interruptionorsecuritybreachwillnotoccuror,ifanydoes

occur,thatitcanbesufficientlyremediated.
Therehavebeenincreasingeffortsonthepartofthirdparties,includingthroughcyberattacks,to
breachdatasecurityatfinancialinstitutionsorwithrespecttofinancialtransactions.Therehavebeen

severalrecentinstancesinvolvingfinancialservicesandconsumer-basedcompaniesreportingthe

unauthorizeddisclosureofclientorcustomerinformationorthedestructionortheftofcorporatedata.In

addition,becausethetechniquesusedtocausesuchsecuritybreacheschangefrequently,oftenarenot

recognizeduntillaunchedagainstatargetandmayoriginatefromlessregulatedandremoteareasaround

theworld,theCompanymaybeunabletoproactivelyaddressthesetechniquesortoimplementadequate

preventativemeasures.TheabilityoftheCompany™scustomerstobankremotely,includingonlineand

throughmobiledevices,requiressecuretransmissionofconfidentialinformationandincreasestheriskof

datasecuritybreaches.
Theoccurrenceofanyfailure,interruptionorsecuritybreachoftheCompany™ssystems,particularly
ifwidespreadorresultinginfinanciallossestocustomers,coulddamagetheCompany™sreputation,resultin

alossofcustomerbusiness,subjectittoadditionalregulatoryscrutiny,orexposeittocivillitigationand

financialliability.
TheCompanyisormaybecomeinvolvedfromtimetotimeinsuits,legalproceedings,information-gathering
requests,investigationsandproceedingsbygovernmentalandself-regulatoryagenciesthatmayleadtoadverse

consequences.ManyaspectsoftheCompany™sbusinessinvolvesubstantialriskoflegalliability.M&Tand/orits
subsidiarieshavebeennamedorthreatenedtobenamedasdefendantsinvariouslawsuitsarisingfromitsor

itssubsidiaries™businessactivities(andinsomecasesfromtheactivitiesofcompaniesM&Thasacquired).

Inaddition,fromtimetotime,M&Tis,ormaybecome,thesubjectofgovernmentalandself-regulatory

agencyinformation-gatheringrequests,reviews,investigationsandproceedingsandotherformsof

regulatoryinquiry,includingbybankregulatoryagencies,theSECandlawenforcementauthorities.The

SEChasannouncedapolicyofseekingadmissionsofliabilityincertainsettledcases,whichcouldadversely

impactthedefenseofprivatelitigation.M&Tisalsoatriskwhenithasagreedtoindemnifyothersforlosses

relatedtolegalproceedings,includinglitigationandgovernmentalinvestigationsandinquiries,theyface,

suchasinconnectionwiththepurchaseorsaleofabusinessorassets.Theresultsofsuchproceedingscould

leadtosignificantcivilorcriminalpenalties,includingmonetarypenalties,damages,adversejudgments,

settlements,fines,injunctions,restrictionsonthewayinwhichtheCompanyconductsitsbusiness,or

reputationalharm.
AlthoughtheCompanyestablishesaccrualsforlegalproceedingswheninformationrelatedtothe
losscontingenciesrepresentedbythosemattersindicatesboththatalossisprobableandthattheamountof

losscanbereasonablyestimated,theCompanydoesnothaveaccrualsforalllegalproceedingswhereitfaces

ariskofloss.Inaddition,duetotheinherentsubjectivityoftheassessmentsandunpredictabilityofthe

outcomeoflegalproceedings,amountsaccruedmaynotrepresenttheultimatelosstotheCompanyfrom

thelegalproceedingsinquestion.Thus,theCompany™sultimatelossesmaybehigher,andpossibly

significantlyso,thantheamountsaccruedforlegallosscontingencies,whichcouldadverselyaffectthe

Company™sfinancialconditionandresultsofoperations.
31M&TreliesonothercompaniestoprovidekeycomponentsoftheCompany™sbusinessinfrastructure.
ThirdpartiesprovidekeycomponentsoftheCompany™sbusinessinfrastructuresuchasbankingservices,
processing,andInternetconnectionsandnetworkaccess.Anydisruptioninsuchservicesprovidedbythese

thirdpartiesoranyfailureofthesethirdpartiestohandlecurrentorhighervolumesofusecouldadversely

affecttheCompany™sabilitytodeliverproductsandservicestoclientsandotherwisetoconductbusiness.

TechnologicalorfinancialdifficultiesofathirdpartyserviceprovidercouldadverselyaffecttheCompany™s

businesstotheextentthosedifficultiesresultintheinterruptionordiscontinuationofservicesprovidedby

thatparty.TheCompanymaynotbeinsuredagainstalltypesoflossesasaresultofthirdpartyfailuresand

insurancecoveragemaybeinadequatetocoveralllossesresultingfromsystemfailuresorotherdisruptions.

FailuresintheCompany™sbusinessinfrastructurecouldinterrupttheoperationsorincreasethecostsof

doingbusiness.
DetaileddiscussionsofthespecificrisksoutlinedaboveandotherrisksfacingtheCompanyare
includedwithinthisAnnualReportonForm10-KinPartI,Item1ﬁBusiness,ﬂandPartII,Item7

ﬁManagement™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations.ﬂFurthermore,

inPartII,Item7undertheheadingﬁForward-LookingStatementsﬂisincludedadescriptionofcertainrisks,

uncertaintiesandassumptionsidentifiedbymanagementthataredifficulttopredictandthatcould

materiallyaffecttheCompany™sfinancialconditionandresultsofoperations,aswellasthevalueofthe

Company™sfinancialinstrumentsingeneral,andM&Tcommonstock,inparticular.
Inaddition,themarketpriceofM&Tcommonstockmayfluctuatesignificantlyinresponsetoa
numberofotherfactors,includingchangesinsecuritiesanalysts™estimatesoffinancialperformance,

volatilityofstockmarketpricesandvolumes,rumorsorerroneousinformation,changesinmarket

valuationsofsimilarcompaniesandchangesinaccountingpoliciesorproceduresasmayberequiredbythe

FASBorotherregulatoryagencies.
Item1B.
UnresolvedStaffComments.
None.Item2.
Properties.BothM&TandM&TBankmaintaintheirexecutiveofficesatOneM&TPlazainBuffalo,NewYork.This
twenty-onestoryheadquartersbuilding,containingapproximately300,000rentablesquarefeetofspace,is

ownedinfeebyM&TBankandwascompletedin1967.M&T,M&TBankandtheirsubsidiariesoccupy

approximately98%ofthebuildingandtheremainderisleasedtonon-affiliatedtenants.AtDecember31,

2014,thecostofthisproperty(includingimprovementssubsequenttotheinitialconstruction),netof

accumulateddepreciation,was$12.0million.
M&TBankownsanadditionalfacilityinBuffalo,NewYorkwithapproximately395,000rentable
squarefeetofspace.Approximately89%ofthisfacility,knownasM&TCenter,isoccupiedbyM&TBank

anditssubsidiaries,withtheremainderleasedtonon-affiliatedtenants.AtDecember31,2014,thecostof

thisbuilding(includingimprovementssubsequenttoacquisition),netofaccumulateddepreciation,was

$8.8million.
M&TBankalsoownsandoccupiestwoseparatefacilitiesintheBuffaloareawhichsupportcertain
back-officeandoperationsfunctionsoftheCompany.Thetotalsquarefootageofthesefacilities

approximates225,000squarefeetandtheircombinedcost(includingimprovementssubsequentto

acquisition),netofaccumulateddepreciation,was$18.1millionatDecember31,2014.
M&TBankalsoownsafacilityinSyracuse,NewYorkwithapproximately160,000rentablesquare
feetofspace.Approximately47%ofthisfacilityisoccupiedbyM&TBank.AtDecember31,2014,thecost

ofthisbuilding(includingimprovementssubsequenttoacquisition),netofaccumulateddepreciation,was

$2.8million.
M&TBankownsfacilitiesinWilmington,Delaware,withapproximately340,000(knownas
WilmingtonCenter)and295,000(knownasWilmingtonPlaza)rentablesquarefeetofspace,respectively.

M&TBankoccupiesapproximately92%ofWilmingtonCenter.WilmingtonPlazais100%occupiedbya

tenant.AtDecember31,2014,thecostofthesebuildings(includingimprovementssubsequentto

acquisition),netofaccumulateddepreciation,was$43.0millionand$13.3million,respectively.
M&TBankalsoownsfacilitiesinHarrisburg,PennsylvaniaandMillsboro,Delawarewith
approximately220,000and325,000rentablesquarefeetofspace,respectively.M&TBankoccupies
32approximately30%and89%oftheserespectivefacilities.AtDecember31,2014,thecostofthesebuildings
(includingimprovementssubsequenttoacquisition),netofaccumulateddepreciation,was$10.7million

and$6.9million,respectively.
NootherpropertiesownedbyM&TBankhavemorethan100,000squarefeetofspace.Thecost,net
ofaccumulateddepreciationandamortization,oftheCompany™spremisesandequipmentisdetailedin

note6ofNotestoFinancialStatementsfiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancialStatementsand

SupplementaryData.ﬂOfthe695domesticbankingofficesoftheRegistrant™ssubsidiarybanksat

December31,2014,291areownedinfeeand404areleased.
Item3.
LegalProceedings.
M&Tanditssubsidiariesaresubjectinthenormalcourseofbusinesstovariouspendingandthreatened
legalproceedingsinwhichclaimsformonetarydamagesareasserted.Onanon-goingbasismanagement,

afterconsultationwithlegalcounsel,assessestheCompany™sliabilitiesandcontingenciesinconnectionwith

suchlegalproceedings.ForthosematterswhereitisprobablethattheCompanywillincurlossesandthe

amountsofthelossescanbereasonablyestimated,theCompanyrecordsanexpenseandcorresponding

liabilityinitsconsolidatedfinancialstatements.Totheextentthependingorthreatenedlitigationcould

resultinexposureinexcessofthatliability,theamountofsuchexcessisnotcurrentlyestimable.Although

notconsideredprobable,therangeofreasonablypossiblelossesforsuchmattersintheaggregate,beyond

theexistingrecordedliability,wasbetween$0and$40million.AlthoughtheCompanydoesnotbelievethat

theoutcomeofpendinglitigationswillbematerialtotheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialposition,it

cannotruleoutthepossibilitythatsuchoutcomeswillbematerialtotheconsolidatedresultsofoperations

foraparticularreportingperiodinthefuture.
WilmingtonTrustCorporationInvestigativeandLitigationMatters
M&T™sWilmingtonTrustCorporation(ﬁWilmingtonTrustﬂ)subsidiaryisthesubjectofagovernmental
investigationarisingfromactionsundertakenbyWilmingtonTrustpriortoM&T™sacquisitionof

WilmingtonTrustanditssubsidiaries,assetforthbelow.
DOJInvestigation:
PriortoM&T™sacquisitionofWilmingtonTrust,theDepartmentofJustice
(ﬁDOJﬂ)commencedaninvestigationofWilmingtonTrust,relatingtoWilmingtonTrust™sfinancial

reportingandsecuritiesfilings,aswellascertaincommercialrealestatelendingrelationshipsinvolvingits

subsidiarybank,WilmingtonTrustCompany,allofwhichrelatetofilingsandactivitiesoccurringpriorto

theacquisitionofWilmingtonTrustbyM&T.CounselforWilmingtonTrusthasmetwiththeDOJto

discusstheDOJinvestigation.TheDOJinvestigationisongoing.
Thisinvestigationcouldleadtoadministrativeorlegalproceedingsresultinginpotentialciviland/or
criminalremedies,orsettlements,including,amongotherthings,enforcementactions,fines,penalties,

restitutionoradditionalcostsandexpenses.
InReWilmingtonTrustSecuritiesLitigation(U.S.DistrictCourt,DistrictofDelaware,CaseNo.10-CV-
0990-SLR):BeginningonNovember18,2010,aseriesofparties,purportingtobeclassrepresentatives,
commencedaputativeclassactionlawsuitagainstWilmingtonTrust,allegingthatWilmingtonTrust™s

financialreportingandsecuritiesfilingswereinviolationofsecuritieslaws.Thecaseswereconsolidatedand

WilmingtonTrustmovedtodismiss.ThecourtissuedanorderdenyingWilmingtonTrust™smotionto

dismissonMarch20,2014.Thepartiesarecurrentlyengagedinthediscoveryphaseofthelawsuit.
Duetotheircomplexnature,itisdifficulttoestimatewhenlitigationandinvestigatorymatterssuch
asthesemayberesolved.AssetforthintheintroductoryparagraphtothisItem3ŠLegalProceedings,

lossesfromcurrentlitigationandregulatorymatterswhichtheCompanyissubjecttothatarenotcurrently

consideredprobablearewithinarangeofreasonablypossiblelossesforsuchmattersintheaggregate,

beyondtheexistingrecordedliability,andareincludedintherangeofreasonablypossiblelossessetforth

above.Item4.
MineSafetyDisclosures.
Notapplicable.
33ExecutiveOfficersoftheRegistrant
InformationconcerningtheRegistrant™sexecutiveofficersispresentedbelowasofFebruary20,2015.The

yeartheofficerwasfirstappointedtotheindicatedpositionwiththeRegistrantoritssubsidiariesisshown

parenthetically.Inthecaseofeachentitynotedbelow,officers™termsrununtilthefirstmeetingoftheboard

ofdirectorsaftersuchentity™sannualmeeting,whichinthecaseoftheRegistranttakesplaceimmediately

followingtheAnnualMeetingofShareholders,anduntiltheirsuccessorsareelectedandqualified.
RobertG.Wilmers,age80,ischiefexecutiveofficer(2007),chairmanoftheboard(2000)anda
director(1982)oftheRegistrant.FromApril1998untilJuly2000,heservedaspresidentandchiefexecutive

officeroftheRegistrantandfromJuly2000untilJune2005heservedaschairman,president(1988)and

chiefexecutiveofficer(1983)oftheRegistrant.Heischiefexecutiveofficer(2007),chairmanoftheboard

(2005)andadirector(1982)ofM&TBank,andpreviouslyservedaschairmanoftheboardofM&TBank

fromMarch1983untilJuly2003andaspresidentofM&TBankfromMarch1984untilJune1996.
MarkJ.Czarnecki,age59,ispresident(2007),chiefoperatingofficer(2014)andadirector(2007)of
theRegistrantandofM&TBank.Previously,hewasanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(1999)and

M&TBank(1997)andwasresponsiblefortheM&TInvestmentGroupandtheCompany™sRetailBanking

network.Mr.Czarneckiischairmanoftheboard,presidentandchiefexecutiveofficer(2007)andadirector

(2005)ofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.
RobertJ.Bojdak,age59,isanexecutivevicepresidentandchiefcreditofficer(2004)ofthe
RegistrantandM&TBank.InadditiontomanagingtheCompany™screditrisk,Mr.Bojdakwasalso

responsibleformanagingtheCompany™senterprise-widerisk,includingoperational,complianceand

investmentrisk,untilFebruary2013.FromApril2002toApril2004,Mr.Bojdakservedasseniorvice

presidentandcreditdeputyforM&TBank.HeisanexecutivevicepresidentandadirectorofWilmington

Trust,N.A.(2004).
StephenJ.Braunscheidel,age58,isanexecutivevicepresident(2004)oftheRegistrantandM&T
Bank,andisinchargeoftheCompany™sHumanResourcesDivision.Mr.Braunscheidelpreviouslyservedas

seniorvicepresidentofM&TBankandhasheldanumberofmanagementpositionswithinM&TBank

since1978.
WilliamJ.FarrellII,age57,isanexecutivevicepresident(2011)oftheRegistrantandM&TBank,
andisresponsibleformanagingM&T™sWealthandInstitutionalServicesDivision,whichincludesWealth

AdvisoryServices,InstitutionalClientServices,AssetManagement,M&TSecuritiesandM&TInsurance

Agency.Mr.FarrelljoinedM&TthroughtheWilmingtonTrustacquisition.HejoinedWilmingtonTrustin

1976andheldanumberofseniormanagementpositions,mostrecentlyasexecutivevicepresidentandhead

oftheCorporateClientServicesbusiness.Mr.Farrellispresident,chiefexecutiveofficerandadirector

(2012)ofWilmingtonTrustCompany,anexecutivevicepresidentandadirector(2011)ofWilmington

Trust,N.A.andadirector(2013)ofM&TSecurities.
RichardS.Gold,age54,isanexecutivevicepresident(2007)andchiefriskofficer(2014)ofthe
Registrant.HeisavicechairmanandchiefriskofficerofM&TBank(2014).Mr.Goldisresponsiblefor

managingtheCompany™senterprise-widerisk,includingoperational,complianceandinvestmentrisk.Heis

alsoresponsiblefortheOfficeofRegulatoryProjects.Previously,Mr.Goldwasresponsibleformanagingthe

Company™sResidentialMortgageandBusinessBankingDivisions.Mr.Goldservedasseniorvicepresident

ofM&TBankfrom2000to2006,mostrecentlyresponsiblefortheRetailBankingDivision,includingM&T

Securities.Mr.Goldisanexecutivevicepresident(2006)andchiefriskofficer(2014)ofWilmingtonTrust,

N.A.BrianE.Hickey,age62,isanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(1997)andM&TBank
(1996).HeisamemberoftheDirectorsAdvisoryCouncil(1994)oftheRochesterDivisionofM&TBank.

Mr.Hickeyisresponsibleformanagingallofthenon-retailsegmentsinUpstateNewYorkandinthe

NorthernandCentral/WesternPennsylvaniaregions.Mr.HickeyisalsoresponsiblefortheAutoFloorPlan

lendingbusiness.
RenéF.Jones,age50,isanexecutivevicepresident(2006)andchieffinancialofficer(2005)ofthe
Registrant.Heisavicechairman(2014)andchieffinancialofficer(2005)ofM&TBank.Mr.Jonesisalso

responsibleforWilmingtonTrust™swealthandinstitutionalservicesbusinessesandforM&T™sTreasury

Division.Previously,Mr.JoneswasaseniorvicepresidentinchargeoftheFinancialPerformance

MeasurementdepartmentwithinM&TBank™sFinanceDivision.Mr.Joneshasheldanumberof

managementpositionswithinM&TBank™sFinanceDivisionsince1992.Mr.Jonesisanexecutivevice

presidentandchieffinancialofficer(2005)andadirector(2007)ofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.,andheis

chairmanoftheboard,president(2009)andatrustee(2005)ofM&TRealEstate.Heischairmanofthe
34boardandadirector(2014)ofWilmingtonTrustInvestmentAdvisors,andisadirectorofM&TInsurance
Agency(2007)andM&TSecurities(2005).Mr.Jonesischairmanoftheboard(2014),chieffinancialofficer

(2012)andadirector(2014)ofWilmingtonTrustCompany.
DarrenJ.King,age45,isanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(2010)andM&TBank(2009),
andisinchargeoftheRetailBankingDivision,theConsumerLendingDivision,theBusinessBanking

DivisionandtheMarketingandCommunicationsDivision.Mr.Kingpreviouslyservedasseniorvice

presidentofM&TBankandhasheldanumberofmanagementpositionswithinM&TBanksince2000.

Mr.KingisanexecutivevicepresidentofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.(2009).
GinoA.Martocci,age49,isanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrantandM&TBank(2014),and
isresponsibleforM&T™sNewYorkCity,BaltimoreandWashington,D.C.metropolitanmarkets.Healsois

responsibleforM&T™sspecialtybusinesses,commercialplanningandanalysis,commercialpayment

systems,andM&TRealtyCapital.Mr.MartocciservedasseniorvicepresidentofM&TBankfrom2002to

2013,servinginanumberofmanagementpositions.Heisadirector(2009)ofM&TRealtyCapital,andan

executivevicepresidentofM&TRealEstate.Mr.MartocciisalsothechairmanoftheDirectorsAdvisory

Council(2013)oftheNewYorkCity/LongIslandDivisionofM&TBank.
KevinJ.Pearson,age53,isanexecutivevicepresident(2002)oftheRegistrantandisavicechairman
(2014)ofM&TBank.HeisamemberoftheDirectorsAdvisoryCouncil(2006)oftheNewYorkCity/Long

IslandDivisionofM&TBank.Mr.PearsonisresponsibleformanagingallofM&TBank™scommercial

bankinglinesofbusiness.Previously,hewasresponsibleforallofthenon-retailsegmentsintheNewYork

City,Philadelphia,Connecticut,NewJersey,Tarrytown,GreaterWashingtonD.C.andNorthernVirginia,

SouthernPennsylvaniaandDelawaremarketsofM&TBank,aswellastheCompany™scommercialreal

estatebusiness,CommercialMarketingandTreasuryManagement.Heisanexecutivevicepresident

(2003)andatrustee(2014)ofM&TRealEstate,chairmanoftheboard(2009)andadirector(2003)of

M&TRealtyCapital,andanexecutivevicepresidentandadirectorofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.(2014).

Mr.PearsonservedasseniorvicepresidentofM&TBankfrom2000to2002.
MicheleD.Trolli,age53,isanexecutivevicepresidentandchiefinformationofficeroftheRegistrant
andM&TBank(2005).SheisinchargeoftheCompany™sBankingServices,Technology,Alternative

BankingandGlobalSourcinggroups.Previously,Ms.TrolliwasinchargeoftheTechnologyandBanking

OperationsDivision,theRetailBankingDivisionandtheCorporateServicesGroupofM&TBank.
D.ScottN.Warman,age49,isanexecutivevicepresident(2009)andtreasurer(2008)ofthe
RegistrantandM&TBank.HeisresponsibleformanagingtheCompany™sTreasuryDivision.Mr.Warman

previouslyservedasseniorvicepresidentofM&TBankandhasheldanumberofmanagementpositions

withinM&TBanksince1995.HeisanexecutivevicepresidentandtreasurerofWilmingtonTrust,N.A.

(2008),atrusteeofM&TRealEstate(2009),andistreasurerofWilmingtonTrustCompany(2012).
PARTII
Item5.
MarketforRegistrant™sCommonEquity,RelatedStockholderMattersandIssuerPurchasesof
EquitySecurities.
M&T™scommonstockistradedunderthesymbolMTBontheNewYorkStockExchange.Seecross-
referencesheetfordisclosuresincorporatedelsewhereinthisAnnualReportonForm10-Kformarket

pricesofM&T™scommonstock,approximatenumberofcommonshareholdersatyear-end,frequencyand

amountsofdividendsoncommonstockandrestrictionsonthepaymentofdividends.
Duringthefourthquarterof2014,M&Tdidnotissueanysharesofitscommonstockthatwerenot
registeredundertheSecuritiesActof1933.
EquityCompensationPlanInformation
ThefollowingtableprovidesinformationasofDecember31,2014withrespecttosharesofcommonstockthat

maybeissuedunderM&T™sexistingequitycompensatio
nplans.M&T™sexistingequitycompensationplans
includetheM&TBankCorporation2001StockOptionPlan,the2005IncentiveCompensationPlan,which

replacedthe2001StockOptionPlan,andthe2009EquityIncentiveCompensationPlan,eachofwhichhas

beenpreviouslyapprovedbyshareholders,andtheM&TBankCorporation2008Directors™StockPlanandthe

M&TBankCorporationDeferredBonusPlan,eachofwhichdidnotrequireshareholderapproval.
35Thetabledoesnotincludeinformationwithrespecttosharesofcommonstocksubjectto
outstandingoptionsandrightsassumedbyM&Tinconnectionwithmergersandacquisitionsofthe

companiesthatoriginallygrantedthoseoptionsandrights.Footnote(1)tothetablesetsforththetotal

numberofsharesofcommonstockissuableupontheexerciseofsuchassumedoptionsandrightsasof

December31,2014,andtheirweighted-averageexerciseprice.
PlanCategory
Numberof
SecuritiestobeIssuedUpon
Exerciseof
OutstandingOptionsorRights
Weighted-AverageExercisePriceof
OutstandingOptionsorRights
NumberofSecurities
RemainingAvailable
forFutureIssuance
UnderEquity
CompensationPlans
(ExcludingSecurities
ReflectedinColumnA)
(A)(B)(C)
Equitycompensationplansapprovedby
securityholders:
2001StockOptionPlan
.................149,452$101.78Š
2005IncentiveCompensationPlan
........3,215,487104.923,374,586
2009EquityIncentiveCompensationPlan..3,50072.891,023,910
Equitycompensationplansnotapprovedby
securityholders:
2008Directors™StockPlan
...............3,384125.6284,898
DeferredBonusPlan
...................29,29765.45Š
Total..............................3,401,120$104.424,483,394
(1)AsofDecember31,2014,atotalof76,464sharesofM&Tcommonstockwereissuableuponexerciseof
outstandingoptionsorrightsassumedbyM&Tinconnectionwithmergerandacquisitiontransactions.The

weighted-averageexercisepriceofthoseoutstandingoptionsorrightsis$129.04percommonshare.
Equitycompensationplansadoptedwithouttheapprovalofshareholdersaredescribedbelow:
2008Directors™StockPlan.
M&Tmaintainsaplanfornon-employeemembersoftheBoardof
DirectorsofM&TandthemembersofitsDirectorsAdvisoryCouncil,andthenon-employeemembersof

theBoardofDirectorsofM&TBankandthemembersofitsregionalDirectorsAdvisoryCouncils,which

allowssuchdirectors,advisorydirectorsandmembersofregionalDirectorsAdvisoryCouncilstoreceiveall

oraportionoftheirdirectorialcompensationinsharesofM&Tcommonstock.
DeferredBonusPlan.
M&TmaintainsadeferredbonusplanwhichwasfrozeneffectiveJanuary1,
2010anddidnotallowanydeferralsafterthatdate.PriortoJanuary1,2010,theplanallowedeligible

officersofM&Tanditssubsidiariestoelecttodeferalloraportionoftheirannualincentivecompensation

awardsandallocatesuchawardstoseveralinvestmentoptions,includingM&Tcommonstock.Atthetime

ofthedeferralelection,participantsalsoelectedthetimingofdistributionsfromtheplan.Suchdistributions

arepayableincash,withtheexceptionofbalancesallocatedtoM&Tcommonstockwhicharedistributable

intheformofsharesofcommonstock.
36PerformanceGraph
ThefollowinggraphcontainsacomparisonofthecumulativeshareholderreturnonM&Tcommonstock

againstthecumulativetotalreturnsoftheKBWBankIndex,compiledbyKeefe,Bruyette&Woods,Inc.,

andtheS&P500Index,compiledbyStandard&Poor™sCorporation,forthefive-yearperiodbeginningon

December31,2009andendingonDecember31,2014.TheKBWBankIndexisamarketcapitalization

indexconsistingof24companiesrepresentingleadingnationalmoneycentersandregionalbanksorthrifts.
$020092010201120122014
2013$50$100$150$300$250$200Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Return*M&T Bank CorporationKBW Bank IndexS&P 500 IndexShareholderValueatYearEnd*
200920102011201220132014
M&TBankCorporation100135122163198218
KBWBankIndex10012395126174190

S&P500Index100115117136180205
*Assumesa$100investmentonDecember31,2009andreinvestmentofalldividends.
Inaccordancewithandtotheextentpermittedbyapplicablelaworregulation,theinformationset
forthaboveundertheheadingﬁPerformanceGraphﬂshallnotbeincorporatedbyreferenceintoanyfuture

filingundertheSecuritiesActof1933,asamended(theﬁSecuritiesActﬂ),ortheExchangeActandshallnot

bedeemedtobeﬁsolicitingmaterialﬂortobeﬁfiledﬂwiththeSECundertheSecuritiesActortheExchange

Act.37IssuerPurchasesofEquitySecurities
InFebruary2007,M&TannouncedthatithadbeenauthorizedbyitsBoardofDirectorstopurchaseupto

5,000,000sharesofitscommonstock.M&Tdidnotrepurchaseanysharespursuanttosuchplanduring

2014.Duringthefourthquarterof2014,M&Tpurchasedsharesofitscommonstockasfollows:
Period(a)TotalNumberofShares
(orUnits)
Purchased(1)(b)AveragePricePaid
perShare
(orUnit)
(c)TotalNumberofShares
(orUnits)
PurchasedasPartof
PubliclyAnnouncedPlansor
Programs(d)MaximumNumber(or
ApproximateDollarValue)ofShares
(orUnits)
thatmayyet
bePurchased
Underthe
Plansor
Programs(2)October1-October31,2014
.....................586
$121.57Š2,181,500
November1-November30,2014
.................3,819124.83Š2,181,500
December1-December31,2014
..................9,276127.03Š2,181,500
Total.........................................13,681$126.19Š
(1)Thetotalnumberofsharespurchasedduringtheperiodsindicatedreflectssharesdeemedtohavebeenreceived
fromemployeeswhoexercisedstockoptionsbyattestingtopreviouslyacquiredcommonsharesinsatisfactionof

theexercisepriceorsharesreceivedfromemployeesuponthevestingofrestrictedstockawardsinsatisfactionof

applicabletaxwithholdingobligations,asispermittedunderM&T™sstock-basedcompensationplans.
(2)OnFebruary22,2007,M&Tannouncedaprogramtopurchaseupto5,000,000sharesofitscommonstock.No
shareswerepurchasedundersuchprogramduringtheperiodsindicated.
Item6.
SelectedFinancialData.
Seecross-referencesheetfordisclosuresincorporatedelsewhereinthisAnnualReportonForm10-K.
Item7.
Management™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations.
CorporateProfileandSignificantDevelopments
M&TBankCorporation(ﬁM&Tﬂ)isabankholdingcompanyheadquarteredinBuffalo,NewYorkwith

consolidatedassetsof$96.7billionatDecember31,2014.Theconsolidatedfinancialinformationpresented

hereinreflectsM&Tandallofitssubsidiaries,whicharereferredtocollectivelyasﬁtheCompany.ﬂM&T™s

whollyownedbanksubsidiariesareM&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,NationalAssociation(ﬁWilmington

Trust,N.A.ﬂ).
M&TBank,withtotalassetsof$95.9billionatDecember31,2014,isaNewYork-chartered
commercialbankwith693domesticbankingofficesinNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,Delaware,

Virginia,WestVirginia,andtheDistrictofColumbia,afull-servicecommercialbankingofficeinOntario,

Canada,andanofficeintheCaymanIslands.M&TBankanditssubsidiariesofferabroadrangeoffinancial

servicestoadiversebaseofconsumers,businesses,professionalclients,governmentalentitiesandfinancial

institutionslocatedintheirmarkets.LendingislargelyfocusedonconsumersresidinginNewYorkState,

Pennsylvania,Maryland,Virginia,DelawareandWashington,D.C.,andonsmallandmediumsize

businessesbasedinthoseareas,althoughloansareoriginatedthroughlendingofficesinotherstatesandin

Ontario,Canada.Certainlendingactivitiesarealsoconductedinotherstatesthroughvarioussubsidiaries.

TrustandotherfiduciaryservicesareofferedbyM&TBankandthroughitswhollyownedsubsidiary,

WilmingtonTrustCompany.OthersubsidiariesofM&TBankinclude:M&TRealEstateTrust,a

commercialmortgagelender;M&TRealtyCapitalCorporation,amultifamilycommercialmortgagelender;

M&TSecurities,Inc.,whichprovidesbrokerage,investmentadvisoryandinsuranceservices;Wilmington

TrustInvestmentAdvisors,Inc.,whichservesasaninvestmentadvisortotheWilmingtonFunds,afamilyof

proprietarymutualfunds,andotherfundsandinstitutionalclients;andM&TInsuranceAgency,Inc.,an

insuranceagency.
38WilmingtonTrust,N.A.,withtotalassetsof$2.8billionatDecember31,2014,isanationalbank
withofficesinWilmington,DelawareandOakfield,NewYork.WilmingtonTrust,N.A.anditssubsidiaries

offervarioustrustandwealthmanagementservices.WilmingtonTrust,N.A.alsoofferedselecteddeposit

andloanproductsonanationwidebasis,largelythroughtelephone,Internetanddirectmailmarketing

techniques.OnAugust27,2012,M&TannouncedthatithadenteredintoadefinitiveagreementwithHudson
CityBancorp,Inc.(ﬁHudsonCityﬂ),headquarteredinParamus,NewJersey,underwhichHudsonCity

wouldbeacquiredbyM&T.Pursuanttothetermsoftheagreement,HudsonCitycommonshareholders

willreceiveconsiderationforeachcommonshareofHudsonCityinanamountvaluedat.08403ofanM&T

shareintheformofeitherM&Tcommonstockorcash,basedontheelectionofeachHudsonCity

shareholder,subjecttoprorationasspecifiedinthemergeragreement(whichprovidesforanaggregatesplit

oftotalconsiderationof60%commonstockofM&Tand40%cash).Theestimatedpurchaseprice

consideringtheclosingpriceofM&T™scommonstockof$125.62onDecember31,2014was$5.4billion.
AsofDecember31,2014,HudsonCityreported$36.6billionofassets,including$21.7billionof
loans(predominantlyresidentialrealestateloans)and$7.9billionofinvestmentsecurities,and$31.8billion

ofliabilities,including$19.4billionofdeposits.Themergerhasreceivedtheapprovalofthecommon

shareholdersofM&TandHudsonCity.However,themergerissubjecttoanumberofconditions,

includingregulatoryapprovals.
OnJune17,2013,M&TandM&TBankenteredintoawrittenagreementwiththeFederalReserve
BankofNewYork.Underthetermsoftheagreement,M&TandM&TBankarerequiredtosubmittothe

FederalReserveBankofNewYorkarevisedcomplianceriskmanagementprogramdesignedtoensure

compliancewiththeBankSecrecyActandanti-money-launderinglawsandregulations(ﬁBSA/AMLﬂ)and

totakecertainotherstepstoenhancetheircompliancepractices.TheCompanycommencedamajor

initiative,includingthehiringofoutsideconsultingfirms,intendedtofullyaddressthoseregulator

concerns.M&TandM&TBankcontinuetomakeprogresstowardscompletingthisinitiative.Inviewofthe

timeframerequiredtoimplementthisinitiative,demonstrateitsefficacytothesatisfactionoftheregulators

andotherwisemeetanyotherregulatoryrequirementsthatmaybeimposedinconnectionwiththese

matters,M&TandHudsonCityhaveextendedthedateafterwhicheitherpartymayelecttoterminatethe

mergeragreementifthemergerhasnotyetbeencompletedtoApril30,2015.Nevertheless,M&T™spending

acquisitionofHudsonCityremainssubjecttoregulatoryapproval,includingapprovalbytheFederal

Reserve,andcertainotherclosingconditionsand,asaresult,therecanbenoassurancesthatthemergerwill

becompletedbythatdate.
RecentLegislativeDevelopments
TheDodd-FrankWallStreetReformandConsumerProtectionAct(ﬁDodd-FrankActﬂ)thatwassigned

intolawonJuly21,2010hasandwillcontinuetosignificantlychangethebankregulatorystructureand

affectthelending,deposit,investment,tradingandoperatingactivitiesoffinancialinstitutionsandtheir

holdingcompanies,andthesystemofregulatoryoversightoftheCompany.TheDodd-FrankActrequires

variousfederalagenciestoadoptabroadrangeofnewimplementingrulesandregulations,andtoprepare

numerousstudiesandreportsforCongress.Notalloftherulesrequiredorexpectedtobeimplemented

undertheDodd-FrankActhavebeenproposedoradopted,andcertainoftherulesthathavebeenproposed

oradoptedundertheDodd-FrankActaresubjecttophase-inortransitionalperiods.Theimplicationsof

theDodd-FrankActfortheCompany™sbusinessescontinuetodependtoalargeextentonthe

implementationofthelegislationbytheFederalReserveandotheragencies.Adiscussionoftheprovisions

oftheDodd-FrankActisincludedinPartI,Item1ofthisForm10-K.
InJuly2013,theFederalReserve,theOfficeoftheComptrolleroftheCurrencyandtheFederal
DepositInsuranceCorporationapprovedfinalrules(theﬁNewCapitalRulesﬂ)establishinganew

comprehensivecapitalframeworkforU.S.bankingorganizations.TheseruleswentintoeffectastoM&Ton

January1,2015.TheNewCapitalRulesgenerallyimplementtheBaselCommitteeonBankingSupervision™s

(theﬁBaselCommitteeﬂ)December2010finalcapitalframeworkforstrengtheninginternationalcapital

standards(referredtoasﬁBaselIIIﬂ)andareintendedtoensurethatbankingorganizationshaveadequate

capitallevelsgiventherisklevelsofassetsandoff-balancesheetobligations.TheNewCapitalRules

substantiallyrevisetherisk-basedcapitalrequirementsapplicabletobankholdingcompaniesandtheir

depositoryinstitutionsubsidiaries,includingM&TandM&TBank,ascomparedtotheU.S.generalrisk-

basedcapitalrulesthatwereapplicabletoM&TandM&TBankthroughDecember31,2014.
39TheNewCapitalRulesalsoprecludecertainhybridsecurities,suchastrustpreferredsecurities,from
inclusioninbankholdingcompanies™Tier1capital,subjecttophase-outinthecaseofbankholding

companies,suchasM&T,thathad$15billionormoreintotalconsolidatedassetsasofDecember31,2009.

Asaresult,beginningin2015,25%ofM&T™strustpreferredsecuritieswillbeincludableinTier1capital,

andin2016andthereafter,noneofM&T™strustpreferredsecuritieswillbeincludableinTier1capital.

TrustpreferredsecuritiesnolongerincludedinM&T™sTier1capitalmaynonethelessbeincludedasa

componentofTier2capitalonapermanentbasiswithoutphase-outandirrespectiveofwhethersuch

securitiesotherwisemeetthereviseddefinitionofTier2capitalsetforthintheNewCapitalRules.Inthe

firstquarterof2014,M&Tredeemed$350millionof8.50%juniorsubordinateddebenturesassociatedwith

thetrustpreferredcapitalsecuritiesofM&TCapitalTrustIVandissuedalikeamountof6.45%preferred

stockthatqualifiesasTier1regulatorycapital.AdetaileddiscussionoftheNewCapitalRulesisincludedin

PartI,Item1ofthisForm10-KundertheheadingﬁCapitalRequirements.ﬂ
ManagementbelievesthattheCompanyisincompliancewiththerevisedcapitaladequacy
requirements.Morespecifically,managementestimatesthattheCompany™sratioofCommonEquityTier1

(ﬁCET1ﬂ)torisk-weightedassetsundertheNewCapitalRules(andasdefinedtherein)onafullyphased-in

basiswasapproximately9.62%asofDecember31,2014,reflectinganestimateofthecomputationofCET1

andtheCompany™srisk-weightedassetsunderthemethodologiessetforthintheNewCapitalRules.
TheCompany™sregulatorycapitalratiosunderrisk-basedcapitalrulesineffectthrough
December31,2014arepresentedinnote23ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
OnDecember10,2013,theFederalReserve,theOfficeoftheComptrolleroftheCurrency,the
FederalDepositInsuranceCorporationandtheSecuritiesandExchangeCommissionadoptedthefinal

versionoftheVolckerRule,whichwasmandatedundertheDodd-FrankAct.TheVolckerRuleisintended

toreducerisksposedtobankingentitiesfromproprietarytradingactivitiesandinvestmentsinor

relationshipswithcoveredfunds.Bankingentitiesaregenerallyprohibitedfromengaginginproprietary

trading.UndertheVolckerRule,theCompanywasrequiredtobeincompliancewiththeprohibitionon

proprietarytradingandtherequirementtodevelopanextensivecomplianceprogrambyJuly2015;

however,inDecember2014,theFederalReserveextendedthecomplianceperiodtoJuly2016for

investmentsinandrelationshipswithcoveredfundsthatwereinplacepriortoDecember31,2013.The

FederalReservehasindicatedthatitintendstofurtherextendthecomplianceperiodtoJuly2017.
TheCompanydoesnotbelievethatitengagesinanysignificantamountofproprietarytradingas
definedintheVolckerRuleandthatanyimpactwouldbeminimal.Inaddition,areviewoftheCompany™s

investmentswasundertakentodetermineifanymeettheVolckerRule™sdefinitionofﬁcoveredfunds.ﬂ

Basedonthatreview,theCompanybelievesthatanyimpactrelatedtoinvestmentsconsideredtobecovered

fundswouldnothaveamaterialeffectontheCompany™sfinancialconditionoritsresultsofoperations.

Nevertheless,theCompanymayberequiredtodivestcertaininvestmentssubjecttotheVolkerRule.
OnSeptember3,2014,theFederalReserveandotherbankingregulatorsadoptedfinalrules(ﬁFinal
LCRRuleﬂ)implementingaU.S.versionoftheBaselCommittee™sLiquidityCoverageRatiorequirement

(ﬁLCRﬂ)includingthemodifiedversionapplicabletobankholdingcompanies,suchasM&T,with$50

billionintotalconsolidatedassetsthatarenotﬁadvancedapproachesﬂinstitutions.TheLCRisintendedto

ensurethatbanksholdasufficientamountofso-calledﬁhighqualityliquidassetsﬂ(ﬁHQLAﬂ)tocoverthe

anticipatednetcashoutflowsduringahypotheticalacute30-daystressscenario.TheLCRistheratioofan

institution™samountofHQLA(thenumerator)overprojectednetcashout-flowsoverthe30-dayhorizon

(thedenominator),ineachcase,ascalculatedpursuanttotheFinalLCRRule.Oncefullyphased-in,a

subjectinstitutionmustmaintainanLCRequaltoatleast100%inordertosatisfythisregulatory

requirement.Onlyspecificclassesofassets,includingU.S.Treasurysecurities,otherU.S.government

obligationsandagencymortgaged-backedsecurities,qualifyundertheruleasHQLA,withclassesofassets

deemedrelativelylessliquidand/orsubjecttogreaterdegreeofcreditrisksubjecttocertainhaircutsand

capsforpurposesofcalculatingthenumeratorundertheFinalLCRRule.
TheinitialcompliancedateforthemodifiedLCRisJanuary2016,withtherequirementfullyphased-
inbyJanuary2017.TheCompanyintendstocomplywiththeLCRwhenitbecomeseffective.Adetailed

discussionoftheLCRanditsrequirementsisincludedinPartI,Item1ofthisForm10-Kundertheheading

ﬁLiquidityRatiosunderBaselIII.ﬂ
40CriticalAccountingEstimates
TheCompany™ssignificantaccountingpoliciesconformwithGAAPandaredescribedinnote1ofNotesto

FinancialStatements.Inapplyingthoseaccountingpolicies,managementoftheCompanyisrequiredto

exercisejudgmentindeterminingmanyofthemethodologies,assumptionsandestimatestobeutilized.

Certainofthecriticalaccountingestimatesaremoredependentonsuchjudgmentandinsomecasesmay

contributetovolatilityintheCompany™sreportedfinancialperformanceshouldtheassumptionsand

estimatesusedchangeovertimeduetochangesincircumstances.Someofthemoresignificantareasin

whichmanagementoftheCompanyappliescriticalassumptionsandestimatesincludethefollowing:
ŠAccountingforcreditlossesŠTheallowanceforcreditlossesrepresentstheamountthatin

management™sjudgmentappropriatelyreflectscreditlossesinherentintheloanandleaseportfolioas

ofthebalancesheetdate.Aprovisionforcreditlossesisrecordedtoadjusttheleveloftheallowance

asdeemednecessarybymanagement.Inestimatinglossesinherentintheloanandleaseportfolio,

assumptionsandjudgmentareappliedtomeasureamountsandtimingofexpectedfuturecash

flows,collateralvaluesandotherfactorsusedtodeterminetheborrowers™abilitiestorepay

obligations.Historicallosstrendsarealsoconsidered,asareeconomicconditions,industrytrends,

portfoliotrendsandborrower-specificfinancialdata.Inaccountingforloansacquiredatadiscount,

whichareinitiallyrecordedatfairvaluewithnocarry-overofanacquiredentity™spreviously

establishedallowanceforcreditlosses,thecashflowsexpectedatacquisitioninexcessofestimated

fairvaluearerecognizedasinterestincomeovertheremaininglivesoftheloans.Subsequent

decreasesintheexpectedprincipalcashflowsrequiretheCompanytoevaluatetheneedforadditions

totheCompany™sallowanceforcreditlosses.Subsequentimprovementsinexpectedcashflowsresult

firstintherecoveryofanyapplicableallowanceforcreditlossesandthenintherecognitionof

additionalinterestincomeovertheremaininglivesoftheloans.Changesinthecircumstances

consideredwhendeterminingmanagement™sestimatesandassumptionscouldresultinchangesin

thoseestimatesandassumptions,whichmayresultinadjustmentoftheallowanceor,inthecaseof

acquiredloans,increasesininterestincomeinfutureperiods.Adetaileddiscussionoffactsand

circumstancesconsideredbymanagementindeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlossesisincluded

hereinundertheheadingﬁProvisionforCreditLossesﬂandinnote5ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.ŠValuationmethodologiesŠManagementoftheCompanyappliesvariousvaluationmethodologies

toassetsandliabilitieswhichofteninvolveasignificantdegreeofjudgment,particularlywhenliquid

marketsdonotexistfortheparticularitemsbeingvalued.Quotedmarketpricesarereferredtowhen

estimatingfairvaluesforcertainassets,suchastradingassets,mostinvestmentsecurities,and

residentialrealestateloansheldforsaleandrelatedcommitments.However,forthoseitemsfor

whichanobservableliquidmarketdoesnotexist,managementutilizessignificantestimatesand

assumptionstovaluesuchitems.Examplesoftheseitemsincludeloans,deposits,borrowings,

goodwill,coredepositandotherintangibleassets,andotherassetsandliabilitiesobtainedor

assumedinbusinesscombinations;capitalizedservicingassets;pensionandotherpostretirement

benefitobligations;estimatedresidualvaluesofpropertyassociatedwithleases;andcertainderivative

andotherfinancialinstruments.Thesevaluationsrequiretheuseofvariousassumptions,including,

amongothers,discountrates,ratesofreturnonassets,repaymentrates,cashflows,defaultrates,

costsofservicingandliquidationvalues.Theuseofdifferentassumptionscouldproduce

significantlydifferentresults,whichcouldhavematerialpositiveornegativeeffectsonthe

Company™sresultsofoperations.Inadditiontovaluation,theCompanymustassesswhetherthere

areanydeclinesinvaluebelowthecarryingvalueofassetsthatshouldbeconsideredotherthan

temporaryorotherwiserequireanadjustmentincarryingvalueandrecognitionofalossinthe

consolidatedstatementofincome.Examplesincludeinvestmentsecurities,otherinvestments,

mortgageservicingrights,goodwill,coredepositandotherintangibleassets,amongothers.Specific

assumptionsandestimatesutilizedbymanagementarediscussedindetailhereininmanagement™s

discussionandanalysisoffinancialconditionandresultsofoperationsandinnotes1,3,4,7,8,12,

18,19and20ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
ŠCommitments,contingenciesandoff-balancesheetarrangementsŠInformationregardingthe

Company™scommitmentsandcontingencies,includingguaranteesandcontingentliabilitiesarising

fromlitigation,andtheirpotentialeffectsontheCompany™sresultsofoperationsisincludedinnote

21ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Inaddition,theCompanyisroutinelysubjecttoexaminations

fromvariousgovernmentaltaxingauthorities.Suchexaminationsmayresultinchallengestothetax
41returntreatmentappliedbytheCompanytospecifictransactions.Managementbelievesthatthe
assumptionsandjudgmentusedtorecordtax-related
assetsorliabilitieshavebeenappropriate.Should
taxlawschangeorthetaxauthoritiesdeterminethatmanagement™sassumptionswereinappropriate,

theresultandadjustmentsrequiredcouldhaveamaterialeffectontheCompany™sresultsof

operations.InformationregardingtheCompany™sincometaxesispresentedinnote13ofNotesto

FinancialStatements.Therecognitionorde-recognitionintheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancial

statementsofassetsandliabilitiesheldbyso-calledvariableinterestentitiesissubjecttothe

interpretationandapplicationofcomplexaccountin
gpronouncementsorinterpretationsthatrequire
managementtoestimateandassesstherelativesignificanceoftheCompany™sfinancialinterestsin

thoseentitiesandthedegreetowhichtheCompanycaninfluencethemostimportantactivitiesofthe

entities.InformationrelatingtotheCompany™sinvolvementinsuchentitiesandtheaccounting

treatmentaffordedeachsuchinvolvementisincludedinnote19ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
OverviewTheCompanyrecordednetincomeduring2014of$1.07billionor$7.42ofdilutedearningspercommon

share,down6%and10%,respectively,from$1.14billionor$8.20ofdilutedearningspercommonsharein

2013.Basicearningspercommonsharedecreased10%to$7.47in2014from$8.26in2013.Netincomein

2012totaled$1.03billion,whiledilutedandbasicearningspercommonsharewere$7.54and$7.57,

respectively.Theafter-taximpactofmerger-relatedexpensesassociatedwithacquisitiontransactionswas

$8million($12millionpre-tax)or$.06ofbasicanddilutedearningspercommonsharein2013,compared

with$6million($10millionpre-tax)or$.05ofbasicanddilutedearningspercommonsharein2012.The

2013merger-relatedexpenseswereassociatedwiththependingacquisitionofHudsonCityandthe2012

expensesrelatedtotheMay16,2011acquisitionofWilmingtonTrustCorporation(ﬁWilmingtonTrustﬂ).

Therewerenomerger-relatedexpensesin2014.Expressedasarateofreturnonaverageassets,netincome

in2014was1.16%,comparedwith1.36%in2013and1.29%in2012.Thereturnonaveragecommon

shareholders™equitywas9.08%in2014,10.93%in2013and10.96%in2012.
TheCompany™sfinancialperformancein2014ascomparedwith2013reflectedasignificantlylower
provisionforcreditlossesandhighermortgagebankingrevenues,offsetbylowernetgainsfrominvestment

securitiesandloansecuritizationtransactionsandhigheroperatingexpenseslargelyresultingfromincreased

costsforprofessionalservicesandsalaries.During2013,theCompanysoldthemajorityofitsprivately

issuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesthathadbeenheldintheavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesportfolio

foranafter-taxlossof$28million($46millionpre-tax),or$.22perdilutedcommonshare.Inaddition,the

Company™sholdingsofVisaandMasterCardsharesweresoldforanafter-taxgainof$62million($103

millionpre-tax),or$.48perdilutedcommonshare.Alsoreflectedin2013™sresultswereafter-taxgainsfrom

loansecuritizationtransactionsof$38million($63millionpre-tax),or$.29perdilutedcommonshare.The

Companysecuritizedduringthesecondandthirdquartersof2013approximately$1.3billionofone-to-

fourfamilyresidentialrealestateloanspreviouslyheldintheCompany™sloanportfoliointoguaranteed

mortgage-backedsecuritieswithGinnieMaeandrecognizedgainsof$42million.TheCompanyretained

thesubstantialmajorityofthosesecuritiesinitsinvestmentsecuritiesportfolio.Inaddition,theCompany

securitizedandsoldinSeptember2013approximately$1.4billionofautomobileloansheldinitsloan

portfolio,resultinginagainof$21million.Ascomparedwith2012,thepositiveimpactofthe2013

securitiestransactionsandgainsonsecuritizationactivitieswerepartiallyoffsetbyhigheroperating

expenseslargelyattributabletoincreasedcostsforprofessionalservicesandsalaries.
Taxable-equivalentnetinterestincometotaled$2.70billionineachof2014and2013.Average
earningassetsgrew$7.7billion,or10%,in2014duetohigherbalancesofinvestmentsecuritiesand

interest-bearingdepositsatbanks.Offsettingtheimpactofhigherearningassetswasa34basispoint

(hundredthsofonepercent)narrowingofthenetinterestmargin,ortaxable-equivalentnetinterestincome

dividedbyaverageearningassets,from3.65%in2013to3.31%in2014.Taxable-equivalentnetinterest

incomerose$73millionor3%in2013ascomparedwith2012,resultingfroma$2.4billion,or4%,increase

inaverageloansandleases.Thenetinterestmarginin2013was8basispointslowerthanin2012.
Theprovisionforcreditlossesin2014declined33%to$124millionfrom$185millionin2013.The
Companyexperiencedsignificantimprovementincreditqualityduring2014.Netcharge-offsof$121

millionin2014weredownfrom$183millionintheprioryear.Netcharge-offsasapercentageofaverage

loansandleaseswere.19%and.28%in2014and2013,respectively.Theprovisionforcreditlossesin2013

was$19millionor9%lowerthan$204millionin2012.Netcharge-offsin2012were$186million,or.30%

ofaverageloansandleases.
42Otherincomeaggregated$1.78billionin2014,comparedwith$1.87billionin2013and$1.67billion
in2012.Includedinotherincomein2013werenetgainsoninvestmentsecuritiesof$47million,compared

withnetlossesoninvestmentsecuritiesof$48millionin2012.Therewerenogainsorlossesoninvestment

securitiesin2014.Excludinggainsandlossesoninvestmentsecuritiesandthepreviouslynoted$63million

ofgainsfromloansecuritizationtransactionsin2013,otherincomein2014wasup$24millionfrom$1.76

billionin2013.Highermortgagebankingrevenuesandtrustincomein2014werepartiallyoffsetbya

declineinservicechargesondepositaccounts.Afterexcludinginvestmentsecuritiesgainsandlossesandthe

loansecuritizationtransactions,otherincomein2013was$40millionor2%above$1.72billionin2012.In

thatcomparison,highertrust,brokerageservicesandcreditcardinterchangeincomein2013werepartially

offsetbylowermortgagebankingrevenues.Reflectedingainsandlossesoninvestmentsecuritieswere

other-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesof$10millionand$48millionin2013and2012,respectively,on

certainprivatelyissuedcollateralizedmortgageobligations(ﬁCMOsﬂ).
Otherexpenseincreased4%to$2.74billionin2014from$2.64billionin2013.During2012,other
expensetotaled$2.51billion.IncludedinthoseamountsareexpensesconsideredbyM&Ttobe

ﬁnonoperatingﬂinnature,consistingofamortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsof$34

million,$47millionand$61millionin2014,2013and2012,respectively,andmerger-relatedexpensesof

$12millionand$10millionin2013and2012,respectively.Exclusiveofthosenonoperatingexpenses,

noninterestoperatingexpensesaggregated$2.71billionin2014,comparedwith$2.58billionin2013and

$2.44billionin2012.Theincreaseinsuchexpensesin2014ascomparedwith2013waslargelyattributable

tohighercostsforprofessionalservicesandsalariesassociatedwithBSA/AMLactivities,compliance,capital

planningandstresstesting,andriskmanagementactivities.Theriseinnoninterestoperatingexpensesfrom

2012to2013waslargelyattributabletohighercostsforprofessionalservicesandsalaries,partiallyoffsetby

lowerFDICassessments.Inaddition,theCompanyreachedalegalsettlementofapreviouslydisclosed

lawsuitrelatedtoissuesthatwereallegedtooccuratWilmingtonTrustpriortoitsacquisitionbyM&Tthat

ledtoa$40millionlossaccrualasofDecember31,2013.Thataccrualwaspartiallyoffsetbythereversalof

anaccrualforacontingentcompensationobligationassumedintheMay2011acquisitionofWilmington

Trustthatexpired,resultingina$26millionreductionofﬁothercostsofoperationsﬂin2013.
Theefficiencyratiomeasurestherelationshipofoperatingexpensestorevenues.TheCompany™s
efficiencyratio,ornoninterestoperatingexpenses(aspreviouslydefined)dividedbythesumoftaxable-

equivalentnetinterestincomeandnoninterestincome(exclusiveofgainsandlossesfrombankinvestment

securities),was60.5%in2014,comparedwith57.0%and56.2%in2013and2012,respectively.The

calculationsoftheefficiencyratioarepresentedintable2.
43Table1
EARNINGSSUMMARY
Dollarsinmillions
Increase(Decrease)(a)
CompoundGrowthRate
5Years
2013to2014
2012to2013
Amount%Amount%201420132012201120102009to2014
$(1.8)Š$14.2ŠInterestincome(b)
...........................$2,980.52,982.32,968.12,817.92,753.82%
(3.7)(1)(59.1)(17)Interestexpense
..............................280.4284.1343.2402.3462.3(16)
1.9Š73.33Netinterestincome(b)
........................2,700.12,698.22,624.92,415.62,291.55
(61.0)(33)(19.0)(9)Less:provisionforcreditlosses
.................124.0185.0204.0270.0368.0(27)
(46.7)Š94.5ŠGain(loss)onbankinvestmentsecurities(c)
......Š
46.7(47.8)73.2(83.5)Š
(39.2)(2)103.46Otherincome
...............................1,779.31,818.51,715.11,509.81,191.68
Less:49.8440.63Salariesandemployeebenefits
................1,405.01,355.21,314.61,204.0999.77
57.2486.07Otherexpense
.............................1,337.91,280.71,194.71,274.1915.16
(130.0)(7)163.610Incomebeforeincometaxes
....................1,612.51,742.51,578.91,250.51,116.824
Less:(1.3)(5)(1.4)(5)Taxable-equivalentadjustment(b)
.............23.725.026.425.924.02
(56.4)(10)56.011Incometaxes
..............................522.6579.0523.0365.1356.630
$(72.3)(6)$109.011Netincome
.................................$1,066.21,138.51,029.5859.5736.223%
(a)Changeswerecalculatedfromunroundedamounts.
(b)Interestincomedataareonataxable-equivalentbasis.Thetaxable-equivalentadjustmentrepresentsadditional
incometaxesthatwouldbedueifallinterestincomeweresubjecttoincometaxes.Thisadjustment,whichis

relatedtointerestreceivedonqualifiedmunicipalsecurities,industrialrevenuefinancingsandpreferredequity

securities,isbasedonacompositeincometaxrateofapproximately39%.
(c)Includesother-than-temporaryimpairmentlosses,ifany.
SupplementalReportingofNon-GAAPResultsofOperations
Asaresultofbusinesscombinationsandotheracquisitions,theCompanyhadintangibleassetsconsistingof

goodwillandcoredepositandotherintangibleassetstotaling$3.6billionateachofDecember31,2014,

2013and2012.Includedinsuchintangibleassetswasgoodwillof$3.5billionateachofthosedates.

Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets,aftertaxeffect,totaled$21million,$29millionand

$37millionduring2014,2013and2012,respectively.
M&Tconsistentlyprovidessupplementalreportingofitsresultsonaﬁnetoperatingﬂorﬁtangibleﬂ
basis,fromwhichM&Texcludestheafter-taxeffectofamortizationofcoredepositandotherintangible

assets(andtherelatedgoodwill,coredepositintangibleandotherintangibleassetbalances,netofapplicable

deferredtaxamounts)andgainsandexpensesassociatedwithmergingacquiredoperationsintothe

Company,sincesuchitemsareconsideredbymanagementtobeﬁnonoperatingﬂinnature.Thosemerger-

relatedexpensesgenerallyconsistofprofessionalservicesandothertemporaryhelpfeesassociatedwiththe

actualorplannedconversionofsystemsand/orintegrationofoperations;costsrelatedtobranchandoffice

consolidations;costsrelatedtoterminationofexistingcontractualarrangementstopurchasevarious

services;initialmarketingandpromotionexpensesdesignedtointroduceM&TBanktoitsnewcustomers;

severanceforformeremployees;incentivecompensationcosts;travelcosts;andprinting,suppliesandother

costsofcompletingthetransactionsandcommencingoperationsinnewmarketsandoffices.Althoughﬁnet

operatingincomeﬂasdefinedbyM&TisnotaGAAPmeasure,M&T™smanagementbelievesthatthis

informationhelpsinvestorsunderstandtheeffectofacquisitionactivityinreportedresults.
Netoperatingincomewas$1.09billionin2014,comparedwith$1.17billionin2013.Dilutednet
operatingearningspercommonsharein2014were$7.57,comparedwith$8.48in2013.Netoperatingincome

anddilutednetoperatingearningspercommonsharewere$1.07billionand$7.88,respectively,in2012.
44Table2
RECONCILIATIONOFGAAPTONON-GAAPMEASURES
201420132012Incomestatementdata
Inthousands,exceptpershare

Netincome

Netincome
....................................................................................$1,066,246$1,138,480$1,029,498
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets(a)
..............................................20,65728,64437,011
Merger-relatedexpenses(a)
........................................................................Š
7,5116,001
Netoperatingincome
..........................................................................$1,086,903$1,174,635$1,072,510
Earningspercommonshare
Dilutedearningspercommonshare
.................................................................$
7.42$8.20$7.54
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets(a)
...............................................15.22.29
Merger-relatedexpenses(a)
........................................................................Š.06.05
Dilutednetoperatingearningspercommonshare
...................................................$
7.57$8.48$7.88
Otherexpense
Otherexpense
..................................................................................$2,742,857$2,635,885$2,509,260
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets
.................................................(33,824)(46,912)(60,631)
Merger-relatedexpenses
..........................................................................Š
(12,364)(9,879)
Noninterestoperatingexpense
...................................................................$2,709,033$2,576,609$2,438,750
Merger-relatedexpenses
Salariesandemployeebenefits
.....................................................................$Š$836$
4,997Equipmentandnetoccupancy
.....................................................................Š69015
Printing,postageandsupplies
.....................................................................Š
1,825Š
Othercostsofoperations
.........................................................................Š
9,0134,867
Total........................................................................................$Š$
12,364$9,879
Efficiencyratio
Noninterestoperatingexpense(numerator)
..........................................................$2,709,033$2,576,609$2,438,750
Taxable-equivalentnetinterestincome
..............................................................2,700,0882,698,2002,624,907
Otherincome
...................................................................................1,779,2731,865,2051,667,270
Less:Gainonbankinvestmentsecurities
.............................................................Š
56,4579
NetOTTIlossesrecognizedinearnings
..........................................................Š
(9,800)(47,822)
Denominator...................................................................................$4,479,361$4,516,748$4,339,990
Efficiencyratio
..................................................................................60.48%57.05%56.19%
Balancesheetdata
Inmillions

Averageassets

Averageassets
..................................................................................$
92,143$83,662$79,983
Goodwill......................................................................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
..............................................................(50)(90)(144)
Deferredtaxes
..................................................................................152742
Averagetangibleassets
.........................................................................$
88,583$80,074$76,356
Averagecommonequity
Averagetotalequity
..............................................................................$
12,097$10,722$9,703
Preferredstock
..................................................................................(1,192)(878)(869)
Averagecommonequity
........................................................................10,9059,8448,834
Goodwill......................................................................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
..............................................................(50)(90)(144)
Deferredtaxes
..................................................................................152742
Averagetangiblecommonequity
.................................................................$
7,345$6,256$5,207
Atendofyear
Totalassets

Totalassets
.....................................................................................$
96,686$85,162$83,009
Goodwill......................................................................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
..............................................................(35)(69)(116)
Deferredtaxes
..................................................................................112134
Totaltangibleassets
............................................................................$
93,137$81,589$79,402
Totalcommonequity
Totalequity
....................................................................................$
12,336$11,306$10,203
Preferredstock
..................................................................................(1,231)(882)(873)
UndeclareddividendsŠcumulativepreferredstock
...................................................(3)(3)(3)
Commonequity,netofundeclaredcumulativepreferreddividends
.......................................11,10210,4219,327
Goodwill......................................................................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
..............................................................(35)(69)(116)
Deferredtaxes
..................................................................................112134
Totaltangiblecommonequity
...................................................................$
7,553$6,848$5,720
(a)Afteranyrelatedtaxeffect.
45Netoperatingincomeexpressedasarateofreturnonaveragetangibleassetswas1.23%in2014,
comparedwith1.47%in2013and1.40%in2012.Netoperatingincomerepresentedareturnonaverage

tangiblecommonequityof13.76%in2014,comparedwith17.79%and19.42%in2013and2012,

respectively.ReconciliationsofGAAPamountswithcorrespondingnon-GAAPamountsarepresentedintable2.
NetInterestIncome/LendingandFundingActivities
Taxable-equivalentnetinterestincomeaggregated$2.70billionineachof2014and2013.Growthinaverage

earningassetsin2014wasoffsetbyanarrowingofthenetinterestmargin.Averageearningassetsrose10%

to$81.7billionin2014from$74.0billionin2013,theresultofhigheraveragebalancesofinvestment

securitiesandinterest-bearingdepositsattheFederalReserveBankofNewYork.Thenetinterestmargin

narrowedto3.31%in2014from3.65%in2013.Contributingtothatdeclinewasa19basispointreduction

intheaverageyieldonloansandleasesandtheloweryieldingcashbalancesondepositwiththeFederal

ReserveBankofNewYork.
Averageloansandleasesdeclined$388millionor1%to$64.7billionin2014from$65.1billionin
2013.Commercialloansandleasesaveraged$18.9billionin2014,$1.1billionor6%higherthaninthe

prioryear.Thatgrowthreflectedincreaseddemandbycustomers.Averagebalancesofcommercialreal

estateloansincreased1%or$379millionto$26.5billionin2014from$26.1billionin2013.Average

residentialrealestatebalancesdeclinedto$8.7billionin2014from$10.1billionintheprecedingyear.

Includedinthatportfoliowereloansoriginatedforsale,whichaveraged$403millionin2014and$909

millionin2013.Excludingloansheldforsale,averageresidentialrealestateloansdecreased$911million

from2013to2014,resultinglargelyfromthefull-yearimpactofthesecuritizationsduringmid-2013of$1.3

billionofloansheldintheloanportfolio.Averageconsumerloanstotaled$10.6billionin2014,down$480

millionor4%from$11.1billionin2013duetothefull-yearimpactofthe$1.4billionautomobileloan

securitizationtransactioncompletedduringthethirdquarterof2013.
Netinterestincomeonataxable-equivalentbasisincreased$73millionor3%in2013from$2.62
billionin2012.Thatimprovementresultedfroma5%riseinaverageearningassets,to$74.0billionin2013

from$70.3billionin2012.Theincreaseinaverageearningassetswastheresultofhigheraverageloansand

leasesandinterest-bearingdepositsheldattheFederalReserveBankofNewYork.Thenetinterestmargin

declined8basispointsin2013from3.73%in2012.Thatnarrowingwaslargelyduetoan11basispoint

reductionintheaverageyieldonloansandleasesandtheloweryieldingcashbalancesondepositatthe

FederalReserveBankofNewYork.
Averagebalancesofloansandleasesincreased$2.4billionor4%in2013from$62.7billionin2012.
Commercialloansandleasesaveraged$17.7billionin2013,up$1.4billionor9%from$16.3billionin

2012.Averagecommercialrealestateloansincreased$1.2billionor5%to$26.1billionin2013from$24.9

billionintheprecedingyear.Thegrowthincommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloansreflected

higherloandemandbycustomers.Residentialrealestateloanbalancesrose$409millionor4%to$10.1

billionin2013from$9.7billionin2012,resultingfromtheimpactoftheCompanyretainingforportfolio

duringthefirsteightmonthsof2012amajorityoforiginatedresidentialrealestateloans,partiallyoffsetby

themid-2013securitizationsnotedearlier.Consumerloansaveraged$11.1billionin2013,down$635

millionor5%from$11.7billionin2012due,inpart,totheimpactofthethirdquarter2013automobile

loansecuritizationtransaction.
46Table3
AVERAGEBALANCESHEETSANDTAXABLE-EQUIVALENTRATES
20142013201220112010AverageBalanceInterestAverageRateAverageBalanceInterestAverageRateAverageBalanceInterestAverageRateAverageBalanceInterestAverageRateAverageBalanceInterestAverageRate(Averagebalanceinmillions;interestinthousands)
Assets
Earningassets

Loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount(a)
Commercial,financial,etc.
.......................................$18,867$624,4873.31%17,736628,1543.54%16,336606,4953.71%14,655564,7873.85%13,092521,7473.99%
RealestateŠcommercial
........................................26,4611,142,9394.2626,0831,198,4004.5324,9071,138,7234.5022,9011,051,7724.5920,714974,0474.70
RealestateŠconsumer
..........................................8,719368,6324.2310,136418,0954.129,727421,5164.336,778334,4214.935,746303,2625.28
Consumer.....................................................10,618480,8774.5311,098510,9624.6011,732559,2534.7711,865592,3864.9911,745613,4795.22
Totalloansandleases,net
......................................64,6652,616,9354.0565,0532,755,6114.2462,7022,725,9874.3556,1992,543,3664.5351,2972,412,5354.70
Interest-bearingdepositsatbanks
....................................5,34213,361.252,1395,201.245281,221.231,1952,934.2510288.09
Federalfundssoldandagreementstoresellsecurities
....................8964.07128114.09421.55180189.11221446.20
Tradingaccount
..................................................76
1,3811.81781,4821.91961,3941.45941,4111.5094789.84
Investmentsecurities(b)
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
.................................10,543304,1782.885,123165,8793.244,538150,5003.324,165155,3393.734,483191,6774.28
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
.......................166
8,1154.891949,9995.1522011,6385.2924413,7045.6126615,1075.67
Other.........................................................800
36,4854.561,29844,0193.392,21177,3153.502,655101,0203.803,269133,1764.07
Totalinvestmentsecurities
.....................................11,509348,7783.036,615219,8973.326,969239,4533.447,064270,0633.828,018339,9604.24
Totalearningassets
............................................81,6812,980,5193.6574,0132,982,3054.0370,2992,968,0764.2264,7322,817,9634.3559,7322,753,8184.61
Allowanceforcreditlosses
..........................................(923)(932)(922)(916)(906)
Cashandduefrombanks
...........................................1,2771,3801,3841,2071,099
Otherassets
......................................................10,1089,2019,2228,9548,455
Totalassets
..................................................$92,14383,66279,98373,97768,380
LiabilitiesandShareholders™Equity
Interest-bearingliabilities

Interest-bearingdeposits
NOWaccounts
.................................................$
1,0341,404.149231,287.148561,343.167531,145.15601850.14
Savingsdeposits
................................................40,47445,465.1136,73954,948.1533,39868,011.2030,40384,314.2826,19085,226.33
Timedeposits
..................................................3,29015,515.474,04526,439.655,34746,102.866,48071,0141.106,583100,2411.52
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
..................................327699.21496
1,018.216051,130.19779962.129531,368.14
Totalinterest-bearingdeposits
..................................45,12563,083.1442,20383,692.2040,206116,586.2938,415157,435.4134,327187,685.55
Short-termborrowings
.............................................215101.05390430.11839
1,286.158271,030.121,8543,006.16
Long-termborrowings
.............................................7,492217,2472.904,941199,9834.055,527225,2974.086,959243,8663.509,169271,5782.96
Totalinterest-bearingliabilities
...................................52,832280,431.5347,534284,105.6046,572343,169.7446,201402,331.8745,350462,2691.02
Noninterest-bearingdeposits
........................................25,71523,72121,76117,27313,709
Otherliabilities
...................................................1,4991,6851,9471,4991,218
Totalliabilities
.................................................80,04672,94070,28064,97360,277
Shareholders™equity
...............................................12,09710,7229,7039,0048,103
Totalliabilitiesandshareholders™equity
.............................$92,14383,66279,98373,97768,380
Netinterestspread
................................................3.123.433.483.483.59
Contributionofinterest-freefunds
....................................19.22.25.25.25
Netinterestincome/marginonearningassets
..........................$2,700,0883.31%2,698,2003.65%2,624,9073.73%2,415,6323.73%2,291,5493.84%
(a)Includesnonaccrualloans.
(b)Includesavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesatamortizedcost.
47Table4summarizesaverageloansandleasesoutstandingin2014andpercentagechangesinthe
majorcomponentsoftheportfoliooverthepasttwoyears.
Table4
AVERAGELOANSANDLEASES
(Netofunearneddiscount)
PercentIncrease
(Decrease)from
20142013to2014
2012to2013
(Inmillions)
Commercial,financial,etc.
...................................$18,8676%9%
RealestateŠcommercial
...................................26,46115
RealestateŠconsumer
.....................................8,719(14)4
ConsumerAutomobile.............................................1,675(23)(16)
Homeequitylines
........................................5,747Š(3)
Homeequityloans
.......................................314
(24)(27)
Other..................................................2,88253
Totalconsumer
........................................10,618(4)(5)
Total..................................................$64,665(1)%4%
Commercialloansandleases,excludingloanssecuredbyrealestate,aggregated$19.5billionat
December31,2014,representing29%oftotalloansandleases.Table5presentsinformationoncommercial

loansandleasesasofDecember31,2014relatingtogeographicarea,size,borrowerindustryandwhether

theloansaresecuredbycollateralorunsecured.Ofthe$19.5billionofcommercialloansandleases

outstandingattheendof2014,approximately$17.0billion,or87%,weresecured,while44%,25%and18%

weregrantedtobusinessesinNewYorkState,PennsylvaniaandtheMid-Atlanticarea(whichincludes

Maryland,Delaware,Virginia,WestVirginiaandtheDistrictofColumbia),respectively.TheCompany

providesfinancingforleasestocommercialcustomers,primarilyforequipment.Commercialleases

includedintotalcommercialloansandleasesatDecember31,2014aggregated$1.2billion,ofwhich50%

weresecuredbycollaterallocatedinNewYorkState,17%weresecuredbycollateralinPennsylvaniaand

another12%weresecuredbycollateralintheMid-Atlanticarea.
48Table5
COMMERCIALLOANSANDLEASES,NETOFUNEARNEDDISCOUNT
(ExcludesLoansSecuredbyRealEstate)
December31,2014
NewYork
PennsylvaniaMid-AtlanticOtherTotalPercentofTotal
(Dollarsinmillions)
Automobiledealerships
............$1,518$792$363$817$3,49018%
Services.........................1,1096829143773,08216
Manufacturing...................1,4758552834543,06716
Wholesale.......................887444414253
1,99810
Financialandinsurance
...........75422835740
1,3797
Transportation,communications,
utilities.......................427404167255
1,2536
Realestateinvestors
...............673207163101
1,1446
Healthservices
...................51516832945
1,0575
Construction....................394279159568885
Retail..........................208231881156423
Publicadministration
.............160844612912
Agriculture,forestry,fishing,
mining,etc.
...................261273221871
Other..........................425284247279835
Total...........................$8,571$4,785$3,562$2,543$19,461100%
Percentoftotal
...................44%25%18%13%
100%Percentofdollarsoutstanding
Secured.........................82%79%83%81%81%
Unsecured......................111713913
Leases..........................744106
Total...........................100%100%100%100%100%
Percentofdollarsoutstandingbysize
ofloan
Lessthan$1million
...............22%19%29%11%21%
$1millionto$5million
............2124202222
$5millionto$10million
...........1519142617
$10millionto$20million
..........1623192319
$20millionto$30million
..........101371010
$30millionto$50million
..........111888
Greaterthan$50million
...........513Š3
Total...........................100%100%100%100%100%
49Internationalloansincludedincommercialloansandleasestotaled$167millionand$170millionat
December31,2014and2013,respectively.Includedinsuchloanswere$61millionand$72million,

respectively,ofloansatM&TBank™scommercialbranchinOntario,Canada.
Loanssecuredbyrealestate,includingoutstandingbalancesofhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit
whichtheCompanyclassifiesasconsumerloans,representedapproximately64%oftheloanandlease

portfolioduring2014,comparedwith65%in2013and66%in2012.AtDecember31,2014,theCompany

heldapproximately$27.6billionofcommercialrealestateloans,$8.7billionofconsumerrealestateloans

securedbyone-to-fourfamilyresidentialproperties(including$435millionofloansoriginatedforsale)and

$6.0billionofoutstandingbalancesofhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,comparedwith$26.1billion,

$8.9billionand$6.1billion,respectively,atDecember31,2013.Includedintotalloansandleaseswere

amountsduefrombuildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestateaggregating$1.5billionand$1.3billion

atDecember31,2014and2013,respectively,substantiallyallofwhichwereclassifiedascommercialreal

estateloans.
CommercialrealestateloansoriginatedbytheCompanyincludefixed-rateinstrumentswith
monthlypaymentsandaballoonpaymentoftheremainingunpaidprincipalatmaturity,inmanycasesfive

yearsafterorigination.Forborrowersingoodstanding,thetermsofsuchloansmaybeextendedbythe

customerforanadditionalfiveyearsatthethen-currentmarketrateofinterest.TheCompanyalso

originatesfixed-ratecommercialrealestateloanswithmaturitiesofgreaterthanfiveyears,generallyhaving

originalmaturitytermsofapproximatelyseventotenyears,andadjustable-ratecommercialrealestate

loans.Adjustable-ratecommercialrealestateloansrepresentedapproximately65%ofthecommercialreal

estateloanportfolioatthe2014year-end.Table6presentscommercialrealestateloansbygeographicarea,

typeofcollateralandsizeoftheloansoutstandingatDecember31,2014.NewYorkCitymetropolitanarea

commercialrealestateloanstotaled$9.2billionatDecember31,2014.The$7.1billionofinvestor-owned

commercialrealestateloansintheNewYorkCitymetropolitanareawerelargelysecuredbymultifamily

residentialproperties,retailspace,andofficespace.TheCompany™sexperiencehasbeenthatoffice,retail

andservice-relatedpropertiestendtodemonstratemorevolatilefluctuationsinvaluethrougheconomic

cyclesandchangingeconomicconditionsthandomultifamilyresidentialproperties.Approximately44%of

theaggregatedollaramountofNewYorkCity-arealoanswereforloanswithoutstandingbalancesof$10

millionorless,whileloansofmorethan$50millionmadeupapproximately11%ofthetotal.
50Table6
COMMERCIALREALESTATELOANS,NETOFUNEARNEDDISCOUNT
December31,2014
MetropolitanNewYork
CityOtherNewYork
StatePennsylvaniaMid-AtlanticOtherTotalPercentof
Total(Dollarsinmillions)
Investor-ownedPermanentfinancebypropertytype
Retail/Service......................$1,488$508$407$869$659$3,93114%
Office.............................1,2298284718683463,74214
Apartments/Multifamily.............1,5335912895245073,44412
Hotel.............................737356304347366
2,1108
Industrial/Warehouse................286203216275206
1,1864
Healthfacilities
.....................48412119101391
Other.............................112161230201901
Totalpermanent
................5,4332,5431,7202,9322,11414,74254%
Construction/DevelopmentCommercialConstruction.....................608529290695228
2,3509%
Land/Landdevelopment
...........5122445122647673
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
Construction.....................5692641261909513
Land/Landdevelopment
...........1121672771385142
Totalconstruction/development...1,7005764661,2206204,58217%
Totalinvestor-owned
....................7,1333,1192,1864,1522,73419,32471%
Owner-occupiedbyindustry(a)
Healthservices
.....................866521319568319
2,5939%
Otherservices
......................26433525649740
1,3925
Retail.............................166177218285619073
Wholesale.........................1221852251551318183
Manufacturing.....................15620016290326402
Realestateinvestors
.................12666155140505372
Automobiledealerships
..............87856112543621
Other.............................283177217302169954
Totalowner-occupied
...........2,0701,7461,6132,1626538,24429%
Totalcommercialrealestate
...............$9,203$4,865$3,799$6,314$3,387$27,568100%
Percentoftotal
.........................33%18%14%23%12%
100%Percentofdollarsoutstandingbysizeofloan
Lessthan$1million
.....................5%21%19%15%7%12%
$1millionto$5million
..................223632271826
$5millionto$10million
.................172018161518
$10millionto$30million
................342126213227
$30millionto$50million
................112311108
$50millionto$100million
...............9Š210188
Greaterthan$100million
................2ŠŠŠŠ1
Total.................................100%100%100%100%100%100%
(a)Includes$428millionofconstructionloans.
51CommercialrealestateloanssecuredbypropertieslocatedinotherpartsofNewYorkState,
PennsylvaniaandtheMid-Atlanticareatendtohaveagreaterdiversityofcollateraltypesandincludea

significantamountoflendingtocustomerswhousethemortgagedpropertyintheirtradeorbusiness

(owner-occupied).Approximately77%oftheaggregatedollaramountofcommercialrealestateloansin

NewYorkStatesecuredbypropertieslocatedoutsideofthemetropolitanNewYorkCityareawereforloans

withoutstandingbalancesof$10millionorless.Oftheoutstandingbalancesofcommercialrealestateloans

inPennsylvaniaandtheMid-Atlanticarea,approximately69%and58%,respectively,wereforloanswith

outstandingbalancesof$10millionorless.
CommercialrealestateloanssecuredbypropertieslocatedoutsideofPennsylvania,theMid-Atlantic
area,NewYorkStateandareasofstatesneighboringNewYorkconsideredtobepartoftheNewYorkCity

metropolitanarea,comprised12%oftotalcommercialrealestateloansasofDecember31,2014.
Commercialrealestateconstructionanddevelopmentloansmadetoinvestorspresentedintable6
totaled$4.6billionatDecember31,2014,or7%oftotalloansandleases.Approximately95%ofthose

constructionloanshadadjustableinterestrates.Includedinsuchloansatthe2014year-endwere$1.5

billionofloanstodevelopersofresidentialrealestateproperties.Informationaboutthecreditperformance

oftheCompany™sloanstobuildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestatepropertiesisincludedherein

undertheheadingﬁProvisionForCreditLosses.ﬂTheremainderofthecommercialrealestateconstruction

loanportfoliowascomprisedofloansmadeforvariouspurposes,includingtheconstructionofoffice

buildings,multifamilyresidentialhousing,retailspaceandothercommercialdevelopment.
M&TRealtyCapitalCorporation,acommercialrealestatelendingsubsidiaryofM&TBank,
participatesintheDelegatedUnderwritingandServicing(ﬁDUSﬂ)programofFannieMae,pursuantto

whichcommercialrealestateloansareoriginatedinaccordancewithtermsandconditionsspecifiedby

FannieMaeandsold.Underthisprogram,loansaresoldwithpartialcreditrecoursetoM&TRealtyCapital

Corporation.Theamountofrecourseisgenerallylimitedtoone-thirdofanycreditlossincurredbythe

purchaseronanindividualloan,althoughinsomecasestherecourseamountislessthanone-thirdofthe

outstandingprincipalbalance.TheCompany™smaximumcreditriskforrecourseassociatedwithsold

commercialrealestateloanswasapproximately$2.4billionand$2.3billionatDecember31,2014and2013,

respectively.Therehavebeennomateriallossesincurredasaresultofthoserecoursearrangements.

CommercialrealestateloansheldforsaleatDecember31,2014and2013aggregated$308millionand$68

million,respectively.AtDecember31,2014and2013,commercialrealestateloansservicedforother

investorsbytheCompanywere$11.3billionand$11.4billion,respectively.Thoseservicedloansarenot

includedintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheet.
Realestateloanssecuredbyone-to-fourfamilyresidentialpropertieswere$8.7billionat
December31,2014,includingapproximately41%securedbypropertieslocatedinNewYorkState,13%

securedbypropertieslocatedinPennsylvaniaand25%securedbypropertieslocatedintheMid-Atlantic

area.AtDecember31,2014,$435millionofresidentialrealestateloanshadbeenoriginatedforsale,

comparedwith$401millionatDecember31,2013.TheCompany™sportfolioofalternative(ﬁAlt-Aﬂ)

residentialrealestateloansheldforinvestmentatDecember31,2014declinedto$351millionfrom$396

millionatDecember31,2013.Alt-Aloansrepresentloansthatatoriginationtypicallyincludedsomeform

oflimitedborrowerdocumentationrequirementsascomparedwithmoretraditionalresidentialrealestate

loans.LoansintheCompany™sAlt-AportfoliowereoriginatedbytheCompanypriorto2008.Loansto

individualstofinancetheconstructionofone-to-fourfamilyresidentialpropertiestotaled$35millionat

December31,2014and$34millionatDecember31,2013,orapproximately.1%oftotalloansandleasesat

eachofthosedates.InformationaboutthecreditperformanceoftheCompany™sAlt-Aloansandother

residentialrealestateloansisincludedhereinundertheheadingﬁProvisionForCreditLosses.ﬂ
Consumerloanscomprisedapproximately16%oftotalloansandleasesateachofDecember31,
2014and2013.Outstandingbalancesofhomeequitylinesofcreditrepresentthelargestcomponentofthe

consumerloanportfolio.Suchbalancesrepresentedapproximately9%oftotalloansandleasesateachof

December31,2014and2013.Nootherconsumerloanproductrepresentedatleast4%ofloansoutstanding

atDecember31,2014.Approximately41%ofhomeequitylinesofcreditoutstandingatDecember31,2014

weresecuredbypropertiesinNewYorkState,and21%and36%weresecuredbypropertiesinPennsylvania

andtheMid-Atlanticarea,respectively.Outstandingautomobileloanbalancesrosetonearly$2.0billionat

December31,2014from$1.4billionatDecember31,2013.Thatincreasereflectshigherconsumerdemand

formotorvehicles.
52Table7presentsthecompositionoftheCompany™sloanandleaseportfolioattheendof2014,
includingoutstandingbalancestobusinessesandconsumersinNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,theMid-

Atlanticareaandotherstates.Approximately45%oftotalloansandleasesatDecember31,2014wereto

NewYorkStatecustomers,while18%and23%weretoPennsylvaniaandtheMid-Atlanticareacustomers,

respectively.Table7
LOANSANDLEASES,NETOFUNEARNEDDISCOUNT
December31,2014
PercentofDollarsOutstanding
OutstandingsNewYork
StatePennsylvaniaMid-AtlanticOther(Inmillions)
Realestate
Residential.............................$
8,65741%13%25%21%
Commercial...........................27,56851(a)142312
Totalrealestate
.......................36,22549%14%23%14%
Commercial,financial,etc.
..................18,27244%25%19%12%
ConsumerHomeequitylines
.......................5,74741%21%36%2%
Homeequityloans
......................2751328536
Automobile............................1,97931232323
Othersecuredorguaranteed
..............2,26324141745
Otherunsecured
........................7194023343
Totalconsumer
.......................10,98334%21%30%15%
Totalloans
........................65,48045%18%23%14%
Commercialleases
........................1,18949%17%12%22%
Totalloansandleases
................$66,66945%18%23%14%
(a)Includesloanssecuredbypropertieslocatedinneighboringstatesgenerallyconsideredtobewithincommuting
distanceofNewYorkCity.
Averagebalancesofinvestmentsecuritieswere$11.5billionin2014,upfrom$6.6billionand$7.0
billionin2013and2012,respectively.Thesignificantriseinsuchbalancesin2014reflectstheneteffectof

purchasesofmortgage-backedsecuritiesduring2013and2014andtheimpactofinvestmentsecuritiessales

andsecuritizationsin2013asdescribedbelow.Beginninginthesecondquarterof2013,theCompany

undertookcertainactionstoimproveitsregulatorycapitalandliquiditypositionsinresponsetoevolving

regulatoryrequirements.Asaresult,inthesecondquarterof2013approximately$1.0billionofprivately

issuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesheldintheavailable-for-saleportfolioweresold,asweretheCompany™s

holdingsofVisaandMasterCardcommonstock.Inthesecondandthirdquartersof2013,theCompany

securitizedapproximately$1.3billionofresidentialrealestateloansguaranteedbytheFederalHousing

Authority(ﬁFHAﬂ)thatwereheldinitsloanportfolio.AsubstantialmajorityoftheGinnieMaesecurities

resultingfromthosesecuritizationswereretainedbytheCompany.Duringthesecondquarterof2013,the

CompanyalsobeganoriginatingFHAresidentialrealestateloansforpurposesofsecuritizingsuchloans

intoGinnieMaemortgage-backedsecuritiestoberetainedintheCompany™sinvestmentsecurities

portfolio.Approximately$1.6billionofsuchloanswereoriginatedandsecuritizedduring2013.Finally,the

Companypurchasedapproximately$1.9billionofGinnieMaesecuritiesand$250millionofFannieMae

securitiesthatwereaddedtotheinvestmentsecuritiesportfolioduring2013,andanother$4.6billionof

FannieMaesecuritiesand$602millionofGinnieMaesecuritieswerepurchasedduring2014.TheCompany

hasincreaseditsholdingsofinvestmentsecuritiesinresponsetochangingregulatoryrequirements.
53Theinvestmentsecuritiesportfolioislargelycomprisedofresidentialmortgage-backedsecurities,
debtsecuritiesissuedbymunicipalities,trustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbycertainfinancialinstitutions,and

shorter-termU.S.Treasuryandfederalagencynotes.Whenpurchasinginvestmentsecurities,theCompany

considersitsliquiditypositionanditsoverallinterest-rateriskprofileaswellastheadequacyofexpected

returnsrelativetorisksassumed,includingprepayments.Inmanagingitsinvestmentsecuritiesportfolio,

theCompanyoccasionallysellsinvestmentsecuritiesasaresultofchangesininterestratesandspreads,

actualoranticipatedprepayments,creditriskassociatedwithaparticularsecurity,orasaresultof

restructuringitsinvestmentsecuritiesportfolioinconnectionwithabusinesscombination.Asnotedabove,

in2013theCompanysoldinvestmentsecuritiestoreduceitsexposuretohigherrisksecuritiesinresponse

tochangingregulatorycapitalandliquiditystandards.
TheCompanyregularlyreviewsitsinvestmentsecuritiesfordeclinesinvaluebelowamortizedcost
thatmightbecharacterizedasﬁotherthantemporary.ﬂNevertheless,therewerenoother-than-temporary

impairmentchargesrecognizedin2014.Pre-taxother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesof$10million

and$48millionwererecognizedduring2013and2012,respectively,relatedtocertainprivatelyissued

mortgage-backedsecurities.Persistentlyhighunemployment,loandelinquenciesandforeclosuresthatled

toabacklogofhomesheldforsalebyfinancialinstitutionsandothersweresignificantfactorscontributing

totherecognitionoftheother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesrelatedtothosesecurities.Asnoted

earlier,substantiallyalloftheprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesheldintheavailable-for-sale

portfolioweresoldinthesecondquarterof2013.Theimpairmentchargesrecognizedduring2013and2012

relatedtoasubsetofthosesoldsecurities.Basedonmanagement™sassessmentoffuturecashflows

associatedwithindividualinvestmentsecuritiesasofDecember31,2014,theCompanyconcludedthat

declinesinvaluebelowamortizedcostassociatedwiththeinvestmentsecuritiesportfolioweretemporaryin

nature.Afurtherdiscussionoffairvaluesofinvestmentsecuritiesisincludedhereinundertheheading

ﬁCapital.ﬂAdditionalinformationabouttheinvestmentsecuritiesportfolioisincludedinnotes3and20of

NotestoFinancialStatements.
Otherearningassetsincludeinterest-bearingdepositsattheFederalReserveBankofNewYorkand
otherbanks,tradingaccountassets,federalfundssoldandagreementstoresellsecurities.Thoseother

earningassetsintheaggregateaveraged$5.5billionin2014,$2.3billionin2013and$628millionin2012.

Interest-bearingdepositsatbanksaveraged$5.3billionin2014,comparedwith$2.1billionand$528

millionin2013and2012,respectively.Thehigherlevelsofaverageinterest-bearingdepositsatbanksin

2014and2013weredue,inpart,tohigherWilmingtonTrust-relatedcustomerdeposits.Theamountsof

investmentsecuritiesandotherearningassetsheldbytheCompanyareinfluencedbysuchfactorsas

demandforloans,whichgenerallyyieldmorethaninvestmentsecuritiesandotherearningassets,ongoing

repayments,thelevelsofdeposits,andmanagementofliquidityandbalancesheetsizeandresultingcapital

ratios.ThemostsignificantsourceoffundingfortheCompanyiscoredeposits.TheCompanyconsiders
noninterest-bearingdeposits,interest-bearingtransactionaccounts,savingsdepositsandtimedepositsof

$250,000orlessascoredeposits.TheCompany™sbranchnetworkisitsprincipalsourceofcoredeposits,

whichgenerallycarrylowerinterestratesthanwholesalefundsofcomparablematurities.Averagecore

depositstotaled$69.1billionin2014,upfrom$63.8billionin2013and$59.1billionin2012.Thegrowthin

coredepositsfrom2012to2014wasdue,inpart,tohigherdepositsoftrustcustomersandthelackof

attractivealternativeinvestmentsavailabletotheCompany™scustomersresultingfromlowerinterestrates

andfromtheeconomicenvironmentintheU.S.Thelowinterestrateenvironmenthasresultedinashiftin

customersavingstrends,asaveragetimedepositshavecontinuedtodecline,whileaveragenoninterest-

bearingdepositsandsavingsdepositshavegenerallyincreased.Fundingprovidedbycoredeposits

represented85%ofaverageearningassetsin2014,comparedwith86%and84%in2013and2012,

respectively.Table8summarizesaveragecoredepositsin2014andpercentagechangesinthecomponents

ofsuchdepositsoverthepasttwoyears.Coredepositsaggregated$72.0billionand$65.4billionat

December31,2014and2013,respectively.
54Table8
AVERAGECOREDEPOSITS
PercentageIncrease
(Decrease)from
20142013to2014
2012to2013
(Inmillions)
NOWaccounts
............................................$
1,01012%8%
Savingsdeposits
...........................................39,4401010
Timedeposits
.............................................2,921(15)(18)
Noninterest-bearingdeposits
.................................25,71589
Total..................................................$69,0868%8%
TheCompanyhasadditionalfundingsources,includingbranch-relatedtimedepositsover$250,000,
depositsassociatedwiththeCompany™sCaymanIslandsoffice,andbrokereddeposits.Timedepositsover

$250,000,excludingbrokeredcertificatesofdeposit,averaged$366millionin2014,$325millionin2013

and$410millionin2012.CaymanIslandsofficedepositsaveraged$327millionin2014,$496millionin

2013and$605millionin2012.Brokeredtimedepositsaveraged$4millionin2014,comparedwith$279

millionin2013and$741millionin2012.Therewerenobrokeredtimedepositsoutstandingat

December31,2014.AtDecember31,2013,suchdepositstotaled$26million.TheCompanyalsohad

brokeredNOWandbrokeredmoney-marketdepositaccounts,whichintheaggregateaveraged$1.1billion

ineachof2014,2013and2012.ThelevelsofbrokeredNOWandbrokeredmoney-marketdepositaccounts

reflectthedemandforsuchdeposits,largelyresultingfromthedesireofbrokeragefirmstoearnreasonable

yieldswhileensuringthatcustomerdepositsarefullyinsured.ThelevelofCaymanIslandsofficedeposits

arealsoreflectiveofcustomerdemand.AdditionalamountsofCaymanIslandsofficedepositsorbrokered

depositsmaybeaddedinthefuturedependingonmarketconditions,includingdemandbycustomersand

otherinvestorsforthosedeposits,andthecostoffundsavailablefromalternativesourcesatthetime.
TheCompanyalsousesborrowingsfrombanks,securitiesdealers,variousFederalHomeLoan
Banks,theFederalReserveBankofNewYorkandothersassourcesoffunding.Averageshort-term

borrowingstotaled$215millionin2014,$390millionin2013and$839millionin2012.Includedinshort-

termborrowingswereunsecuredfederalfundsborrowings,whichgenerallymatureonthenextbusiness

day,thataveraged$156million,$284millionand$669millionin2014,2013and2012,respectively.

Overnightfederalfundsborrowingsrepresentedthelargestcomponentofaverageshort-termborrowings

andtotaled$135millionatDecember31,2014and$169millionatDecember31,2013.
Long-termborrowingsaveraged$7.5billionin2014,$4.9billionin2013and$5.5billionin2012.
Duringthefirstquarterof2013,M&TBankinitiatedaBankNoteProgramwherebyM&TBankmayoffer

unsecuredseniorandsubordinatednotes.Averagebalancesofnotesissuedunderthatprogramwere$2.9

billionin2014and$657millionin2013.DuringMarch2013,$300millionofthree-yearfloatingratesenior

notesand$500millionoffixedrateseniornoteswereissued.During2014,M&TBankissued$550million

ofthree-yearfloatingrate,$1.25billionofthree-yearfixedrateand$1.4billionoffive-yearfixedratesenior

notes.Theproceedsoftheissuanceshavebeenpredominantlyutilizedtopurchaseadditionalliquid

investmentsthatwillmeettheregulatoryliquidityrequirements.Inaddition,inFebruary2015M&TBank

issued$1.5billionofseniornotesofwhich$750millionmaturein2020and$750millionmaturein2025.

Alsoincludedinaveragelong-termborrowingswereamountsborrowedfromtheFederalHomeLoan

BanksofNewYork,AtlantaandPittsburghof$692millionin2014,$30millionin2013and$768millionin

2012,andsubordinatedcapitalnotesof$1.6billionineachof2014and2013and$2.0billionin2012.

Duringthesecondquarterof2014,M&TBankborrowedapproximately$1.1billionfromtheFederalHome

LoanBank(ﬁFHLBﬂ)ofNewYork.Thoseborrowingsweresplitbetweenthree-yearandfive-yeartermsat

fixedratesofinterest.OnNovember1,2014,M&TBankredeemed$50millionof9.50%subordinatednotes

thatwereduetomaturein2018.OnApril15,2013,$250millionof4.875%subordinatednotesofthe

Companymaturedandwereredeemed.OnJuly2,2012,M&TBankredeemed$400millionofsubordinated

capitalnotesthatwereduetomaturein2013,assuchnotesceasedtoqualifyasregulatorycapitalduringthe

one-yearperiodbeforetheircontractualmaturitydate.Juniorsubordinateddebenturesassociatedwithtrust

preferredsecuritiesthatwereincludedinaveragelong-termborrowingswere$889millionin2014and
55$1.2billionineachof2013and2012.M&Tredeemed$350millionof8.50%juniorsubordinated
debenturesassociatedwithtrustpreferredsecuritiesinthefirstquarterof2014.Additionalinformation

regardingjuniorsubordinateddebentures,aswellasinformationregardingcontractualmaturitiesoflong-

termborrowings,isprovidedinnote9ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Alsoincludedinlong-term

borrowingswereagreementstorepurchasesecurities,whichaveraged$1.4billionduringeachof2014,2013

and2012.Theagreementshavevariousrepurchasedatesthrough2017,however,thecontractualmaturities

oftheunderlyingsecuritiesextendbeyondsuchrepurchasedates.TheCompanyhasutilizedinterestrate

swapagreementstomodifytherepricingcharacteristicsofcertaincomponentsoflong-termdebt.Asof

December31,2014,interestrateswapagreementswereusedtohedgeapproximately$1.4billionof

outstandingfixedratelong-termborrowings.Furtherinformationoninterestrateswapagreementsis

providedinnote18ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
ChangesinthecompositionoftheCompany™searningassetsandinterest-bearingliabilities,as
discussedherein,aswellaschangesininterestratesandspreads,canimpactnetinterestincome.Netinterest

spread,orthedifferencebetweenthetaxable-equivalentyieldonearningassetsandtheratepaidoninterest-

bearingliabilities,was3.12%in2014,comparedwith3.43%in2013and3.48%in2012.Theyieldonthe

Company™searningassetsdeclined38basispointsto3.65%in2014from4.03%in2013,whiletheratepaid

oninterest-bearingliabilitiesdecreased7basispointsto.53%in2014from.60%in2013.Theyieldon

earningassetsduring2013decreased19basispointsfrom4.22%in2012,whiletheratepaidoninterest-

bearingliabilitiesdeclined14basispointsfrom.74%in2012.Thedeclinesinyieldsonearningassetsand

ratesoninterest-bearingliabilitiesreflecttheimpactofactionstakenbytheFederalReservetomaintainthe

targetrangeforthefederalfundsrateof0%to.25%andtocontrolthelevelofinterestratesingeneral.
Netinterest-freefundsconsistlargelyofnoninterest-bearingdemanddepositsandshareholders™
equity,partiallyoffsetbybankownedlifeinsuranceandnon-earningassets,includinggoodwillandcore

depositandotherintangibleassets.Netinterest-freefundsaveraged$28.8billionin2014,comparedwith

$26.5billionin2013and$23.7billionin2012.Thesignificantincreasesinaveragenetinterest-freefundsin

2014and2013werelargelytheresultofhigherbalancesofnoninterest-bearingdeposits,whichaveraged

$25.7billionin2014,$23.7billionin2013and$21.8billionin2012.Goodwillandcoredepositandother

intangibleassetsaveraged$3.6billionineachof2014and2013and$3.7billionin2012.Thecashsurrender

valueofbankownedlifeinsuranceaveraged$1.7billionin2014and$1.6billionineachof2013and2012.

Increasesinthecashsurrendervalueofbankownedlifeinsurancearenotincludedininterestincome,but

ratherarerecordedinﬁotherrevenuesfromoperations.ﬂThecontributionofnetinterest-freefundstonet

interestmarginwas.19%in2014,.22%in2013and.25%in2012.
Reflectingthechangestothenetinterestspreadandthecontributionofnetinterest-freefundsas
describedherein,theCompany™snetinterestmarginwas3.31%in2014,3.65%in2013and3.73%in2012.

Futurechangesinmarketinterestratesorspreads,aswellaschangesinthecompositionoftheCompany™s

portfoliosofearningassetsandinterest-bearingliabilitiesthatresultinreductionsinspreads,could

adverselyimpacttheCompany™snetinterestincomeandnetinterestmargin.Inparticular,therelativelylow

interestrateenvironmentcontinuestoexertdownwardpressureonyieldsonloans,investmentsecurities

andotherearningassets.
Managementassessesthepotentialimpactoffuturechangesininterestratesandspreadsby
projectingnetinterestincomeunderseveralinterestratescenarios.Inmanaginginterestraterisk,the

Companyhasutilizedinterestrateswapagreementstomodifytherepricingcharacteristicsofcertain

portionsofitsinterest-bearingliabilities.Periodicsettlementamountsarisingfromtheseagreementsare

reflectedintheratespaidoninterest-bearingliabilities.Thenotionalamountofinterestrateswap

agreementsenteredintoforinterestrateriskmanagementpurposeswas$1.4billionateachofDecember31,

2014and2013.Underthetermsofthoseswapagreements,theCompanyreceivedpaymentsbasedonthe

outstandingnotionalamountoftheagreementsatfixedratesandmadepaymentsatvariablerates.Those

swapagreementsweredesignatedasfairvaluehedgesofcertainfixedratelong-termborrowings.Therewere

nointerestrateswapagreementsdesignatedascashflowhedgesatthoserespectivedates.
Inafairvaluehedge,thefairvalueofthederivative(theinterestrateswapagreement)andchangesin
thefairvalueofthehedgeditemarerecordedintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheetwiththe

correspondinggainorlossrecognizedincurrentearnings.Thedifferencebetweenchangesinthefairvalue

oftheinterestrateswapagreementsandthehedgeditemsrepresentshedgeineffectivenessandisrecordedin

ﬁotherrevenuesfromoperationsﬂintheCompany™sconsolidatedstatementofincome.Theamountsof

hedgeineffectivenessrecognizedin2014,2013and2012werenotmaterialtotheCompany™sresultsof

operations.Theestimatedaggregatefairvalueofinterestrateswapagreementsdesignatedasfairvalue
56hedgesrepresentedgainsofapproximately$73millionatDecember31,2014and$103millionat
December31,2013.Thefairvaluesofsuchswapagreementsweresubstantiallyoffsetbychangesinthefair

valuesofthehedgeditems.Thechangesinthefairvaluesoftheinterestrateswapagreementsandthe

hedgeditemsprimarilyresultfromtheeffectsofchanginginterestratesandspreads.TheCompany™scredit

exposureasofDecember31,2014withrespecttotheestimatedfairvalueofinterestrateswapagreements

usedformanaginginterestrateriskhasbeensubstantiallymitigatedthroughmasternettingarrangements

withtradingaccountinterestratecontractswiththesamecounterpartyaswellascounterpartypostingsof

$49millionofcollateralwiththeCompany.Additionalinformationaboutswapagreementsandtheitems

beinghedgedisincludedinnote18ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Theaveragenotionalamountsof

interestrateswapagreementsenteredintoforinterestrateriskmanagementpurposes,therelatedeffecton

netinterestincomeandmargin,andtheweighted-averageinterestratespaidorreceivedonthoseswap

agreementsarepresentedintable9.
Table9
INTERESTRATESWAPAGREEMENTS
YearEndedDecember31
201420132012AmountRate(a)AmountRate(a)AmountRate(a)(Dollarsinthousands)
Increase(decrease)in:
Interestincome
..................$ŠŠ%$ŠŠ%$ŠŠ%
Interestexpense
..................(44,996)(.09)(41,326)(.09)(36,368)(.08)
Netinterestincome/margin
........$
44,996.06%$41,326.06%$36,368.05%
Averagenotionalamount
............$1,400,000$1,160,274$900,000
Ratereceived(b)
...................4.42%5.03%6.07%
Ratepaid(b)
.......................1.19%1.47%2.03%
(a)Computedasapercentageofaverageearningassetsorinterest-bearingliabilities.
(b)Weighted-averageratepaidorreceivedoninterestrateswapagreementsineffectduringyear.
ProvisionforCreditLosses
TheCompanymaintainsanallowanceforcreditlossesthatinmanagement™sjudgmentappropriately

reflectslossesinherentintheloanandleaseportfolio.Aprovisionforcreditlossesisrecordedtoadjustthe

leveloftheallowanceasdeemednecessarybymanagement.Theprovisionforcreditlosseswas$124million

in2014,comparedwith$185millionin2013and$204millionin2012.Netloancharge-offsaggregated

$121millionin2014,$183millionin2013and$186millionin2012.Netloancharge-offsasapercentageof

averageloansoutstandingwere.19%in2014,comparedwith.28%in2013and.30%in2012.Asummaryof

theCompany™sloancharge-offs,provisionandallowanceforcreditlossesispresentedintable10andin

note5ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
57Table10
LOANCHARGE-OFFS,PROVISIONANDALLOWANCEFORCREDITLOSSES
20142013201220112010(Dollarsinthousands)
Allowanceforcreditlossesbeginning
balance..............................$916,676$925,860$908,290$902,941$878,022
Charge-offsduringyear
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
.......58,943109,32941,14855,02191,650
RealestateŠconstruction
..............1,8829,13727,68763,52986,603
RealestateŠmortgage
.................33,52749,07958,57281,691108,500
Consumer...........................84,39085,965103,348109,246125,593
Totalcharge-offs
....................178,742253,510230,755309,487412,346
Recoveriesduringyear
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
.......22,18811,77311,37510,22426,621
RealestateŠconstruction
..............4,72518,8003,6935,9304,975
RealestateŠmortgage
.................14,64013,7188,84710,44410,954
Consumer...........................16,07526,03520,41018,23823,963
Totalrecoveries
.....................57,62870,32644,32544,83666,513
Netcharge-offs
.........................121,114183,184186,430264,651345,833
Provisionforcreditlosses
.................124,000185,000204,000270,000368,000
Allowancerelatedtoloanssoldor
securitized...........................Š
(11,000)ŠŠŠ
Consolidationofloansecuritizationtrusts...
ŠŠŠŠ2,752Allowanceforcreditlossesendingbalance...$919,562$916,676$925,860$908,290$902,941
Netcharge-offsasapercentof:
Provisionforcreditlosses
...............97.67%99.02%91.39%98.02%93.98%
Averageloansandleases,netofunearned
discount............................19%.28%.30%.47%.67%
Allowanceforcreditlossesasapercentof
loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount,

atyear-end
...........................1.38%1.43%1.39%1.51%1.74%
Loansacquiredinconnectionwithacquisitiontransactionssubsequentto2008wererecordedatfair
valuewithnocarry-overofanypreviouslyrecordedallowanceforcreditlosses.Determiningthefairvalueof

theacquiredloansrequiredestimatingcashflowsexpectedtobecollectedontheloansanddiscounting

thosecashflowsatthen-currentinterestrates.Theexcessofexpectedcashflowsoverthecarryingvalueof

theloansisrecognizedasinterestincomeoverthelivesoftheloans.Thedifferencebetweencontractually

requiredpaymentsandthecashflowsexpectedtobecollectedisreferredtoasthenonaccretablebalance

andisnotrecordedontheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Thenonaccretablebalancereflectsestimatedfuture

creditlossesandothercontractuallyrequiredpaymentsthattheCompanydoesnotexpecttocollect.The

Companyregularlyevaluatesthereasonablenessofitscashflowprojections.Anydecreasestotheexpected

cashflowsrequiretheCompanytoevaluatetheneedforanadditionalallowanceforcreditlossesandcould

leadtocharge-offsofacquiredloanbalances.Anysignificantincreasesinexpectedcashflowsresultin

additionalinterestincometoberecognizedoverthethen-remaininglivesoftheloans.Thecarryingamount

ofloansobtainedinacquisitionssubsequentto2008was$2.6billionand$4.0billionatDecember31,2014

and2013,respectively.Theportionofthenonaccretablebalancerelatedtoremainingprincipallossesaswell

aslife-to-dateprincipallosseschargedagainstthenonaccretablebalancesinceacquisitiondateasof

December31,2014and2013arepresentedintable11.TheCompanyregularlyreviewsitscashflow
58projectionsforacquiredloans,includingitsestimatesoflifetimeprincipallosses.Duringeachofthelast
threeyears,basedlargelyonimprovingeconomicconditions,theCompany™sestimatesofcashflows

expectedtobegeneratedbyacquiredloansimproved,resultinginincreasesintheaccretableyield.In2014,

estimatedcashflowsexpectedtobegeneratedbyacquiredloansincreasedby$98million,orapproximately

2%.Thatimprovementreflectedaloweringofestimatedprincipallossesbyapproximately$47million,

primarilyduetoa$41milliondecreaseinexpectedprincipallossesintheacquiredcommercialrealestate

portfolios,aswellasinterestandotherrecoveries.Similarly,in2013theestimatesofcashflowsexpectedto

begeneratedbyacquiredloansincreasedbyapproximately3%,or$179million.Thatimprovementalso

reflectedaloweringofestimatedprincipallosses,largelydrivenbya$160milliondecreaseinexpected

principallossesintheacquiredcommercialrealestateportfolios.In2012,estimatedcashflowsexpectedto

begeneratedbyacquiredloansincreasedby$178million,orapproximately2%.Thatimprovementwasalso

largelydrivenbyareductionofestimatedprincipallosses,includinga$132milliondecreaseinexpected

principallossesintheacquiredcommercialrealestateportfolios.
Table11
NONACCRETABLEBALANCEŠPRINCIPAL
RemainingBalance
Life-to-dateCharges
December31,
2014December31,
2013December31,
2014December31,
2013(Inthousands)
Commercial,financing,leasing,etc.
..............$
19,589$31,931$78,736$69,772
Commercialrealestate
........................70,261110,984276,681277,222
Residentialrealestate
.........................15,95823,20159,55254,177
Consumer..................................29,58233,98977,81974,039
Total.....................................$135,390$200,105$492,788$475,210
Nonaccrualloanstotaled$799millionor1.20%ofoutstandingloansandleasesatDecember31,
2014,comparedwith$874millionor1.36%atDecember31,2013and$1.01billionor1.52%at

December31,2012.Thedeclineinnonaccrualloansatthe2014year-endascomparedwithDecember31,

2013waslargelyduetolowercommercialrealestateandresidentialrealestateloansonnonaccrualstatus.

Ascomparedwiththeendof2012,thedeclineinnonaccrualloansatDecember31,2013waslargelydueto

lowercommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloansclassifiedasnonaccrual.SinceDecember31,2012,

additionstononaccrualloansweremorethanoffsetbytheimpactonsuchloansfrompaymentsreceived

andcharge-offs.ImprovingeconomicconditionsintheU.S.continuetohaveafavorableimpacton

borrowerrepaymentperformance.
Accruingloanspastdue90daysormore(excludingacquiredloans)totaled$245millionor.37%of
totalloansandleasesatDecember31,2014,comparedwith$369millionor.58%atDecember31,2013and

$358millionor.54%atDecember31,2012.Thoseloansincludedloansguaranteedbygovernment-related

entitiesof$218million,$298millionand$316millionatDecember31,2014,2013and2012,respectively.

Suchguaranteedloansincludedone-to-fourfamilyresidentialmortgageloansservicedbytheCompanythat

wererepurchasedtoreduceservicingcosts,includingarequirementtoadvanceprincipalandinterest

paymentsthathadnotbeenreceivedfromindividualmortgagors.Despitetheloansbeingpurchasedbythe

Company,theinsuranceorguaranteebytheapplicablegovernment-relatedentityremainsinforce.The

outstandingprincipalbalancesoftherepurchasedloansthatareguaranteedbygovernment-relatedentities

totaled$196millionatDecember31,2014,$255millionatDecember31,2013and$294millionat

December31,2012.Theremainingaccruingloanspastdue90daysormorenotguaranteedbygovernment-

relatedentitieswereloansconsideredtobewithcreditworthyborrowersthatwereintheprocessof

collectionorrenewal.Asummaryofnonperformingassetsandcertainpastdue,renegotiatedandimpaired

loandataandcreditqualityratiosispresentedintable12.
59Table12
NONPERFORMINGASSETANDPASTDUE,RENEGOTIATEDANDIMPAIREDLOANDATA
December31
20142013201220112010(Dollarsinthousands)
Nonaccrualloans
...................$799,151$874,156$1,013,176$1,097,581$1,139,740
Realestateandotherforeclosedassets...63,63566,875104,279156,592220,049
Totalnonperformingassets
...........$862,786$941,031$1,117,455$1,254,173$1,359,789
Accruingloanspastdue90daysor
more(a).........................$245,020$368,510$358,397$287,876$250,705
Governmentguaranteedloansincluded
intotalsabove:
Nonaccrualloans
.................$
69,095$63,647$57,420$40,529$39,883
Accruingloanspastdue90daysor
more.........................217,822297,918316,403252,503207,243
Renegotiatedloans
..................$202,633$257,092$271,971$214,379$233,342
Acquiredaccruingloanspastdue90days
ormore(b)
......................$110,367$130,162$166,554$163,738$91,022
Purchasedimpairedloans(c):
Outstandingcustomerbalance
......$369,080$579,975$828,571$1,267,762$219,477
Carryingamount
.................197,737330,792447,114653,36297,019
Nonaccrualloanstototalloansand
leases,netofunearneddiscount
.....1.20%1.36%1.52%1.83%2.19%
Nonperformingassetstototalnetloans
andleasesandrealestateandother

foreclosedassets
..................1.29%1.47%1.68%2.08%2.60%
Accruingloanspastdue90daysor
more(a)tototalloansandleases,net

ofunearneddiscount
...............37%.58%.54%.48%.48%
(a)Excludesacquiredloans.Predominantlyresidentialmortgageloans.
(b)Acquiredloansthatwererecordedatfairvalueatacquisitiondate.Thiscategorydoesnotincludepurchased
impairedloansthatarepresentedseparately.
(c)Accruingloansthatwereimpairedatacquisitiondateandrecordedatfairvalue.
Purchasedimpairedloansareloansobtainedinacquisitiontransactionssubsequentto2008thatas
oftheacquisitiondatewerespecificallyidentifiedasdisplayingsignsofcreditdeteriorationandforwhich

theCompanydidnotexpecttocollectalloutstandingprincipalandcontractuallyrequiredinterest

payments.Thoseloanswereimpairedatthedateofacquisition,wererecordedatestimatedfairvalueand

weregenerallydelinquentinpayments,but,inaccordancewithGAAP,theCompanycontinuestoaccrue

interestincomeonsuchloansbasedontheestimatedexpectedcashflowsassociatedwiththeloans.The

carryingamountofsuchloanswas$198millionatDecember31,2014,or.3%oftotalloans.Purchased

impairedloanstotaled$331millionatDecember31,2013.Thedeclineinsuchloansduring2014was

predominantlytheresultofpaymentsreceivedfromcustomers.
Acquiredaccruingloanspastdue90daysormoreareloansthatcouldnotbespecificallyidentifiedas
impairedasoftheacquisitiondate,butwererecordedatestimatedfairvalueasofsuchdate.Suchloans

totaled$110millionatDecember31,2014and$130millionatDecember31,2013.
Inanefforttoassistborrowers,theCompanymodifiedthetermsofselectloans.Iftheborrowerwas
experiencingfinancialdifficultyandaconcessionwasgranted,theCompanyconsideredsuchmodifications

astroubleddebtrestructurings.Loanmodificationsincludedsuchactionsastheextensionofloanmaturity
60datesandtheloweringofinterestratesandmonthlypayments.Theobjectiveofthemodificationswasto
increaseloanrepaymentsbycustomersandtherebyreducenetcharge-offs.InaccordancewithGAAP,the

modifiedloansareincludedinimpairedloansforpurposesofdeterminingtheleveloftheallowancefor

creditlosses.Informationaboutmodificationsofloansthatareconsideredtroubleddebtrestructuringsis

includedinnote4ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Residentialrealestateloansmodifiedunderspecifiedlossmitigationprogramsprescribedby
governmentguarantorshavenotbeenincludedinrenegotiatedloansbecausetheloanguaranteeremainsin

fullforceand,accordingly,theCompanyhasnotgrantedaconcessionwithrespecttotheultimate

collectionoftheoriginalloanbalance.Suchloanstotaled$149millionand$206millionatDecember31,

2014andDecember31,2013,respectively.
Charge-offsofcommercialloansandleases,netofrecoveries,were$37millionin2014,$98million
in2013and$30millionin2012.Reflectedinnetcharge-offsofcommercialloansandleasesin2013were

$49millionofcharge-offsforarelationshipwithamotorvehicle-relatedpartswholesaler.Commercial

loansandleasesinnonaccrualstatusaggregated$177millionatDecember31,2014,$111millionat

December31,2013and$152millionatDecember31,2012.Theincreaseinsuchloansfromthe2013year-

endtoDecember31,2014wasnotconcentratedinanyparticularindustrygroupandnoindividual

borrowerrelationshipexceeded$14millionoftheincreaseinnonaccrualcommercialloansandleases.
Netcharge-offsofcommercialrealestateloansduring2014,2013and2012totaled$3million,$12
millionand$36million,respectively.Reflectedinsuchcharge-offsin2014and2013werenetrecoveriesof

$2millionand$12million,respectively,ofloanstoresidentialrealestatebuildersanddevelopers,compared

withnetcharge-offsof$23millionin2012.Commercialrealestateloansclassifiedasnonaccrualaggregated

$239millionatDecember31,2014,comparedwith$305millionatDecember31,2013and$412millionat

December31,2012.ThedeclineinsuchnonaccrualloansascomparedwithDecember31,2013wasdue,in

part,toimprovingeconomicconditionsandreflectedlowerloansinnonaccrualstatustoresidential

buildersanddevelopers.ThedecreaseinnonaccrualcommercialrealestateloansfromDecember31,2012

tothe2013year-endwaspredominantlyduetolowernonaccrualloanstoresidentialbuildersand

developers.AtDecember31,2014and2013,commercialrealestateloanstoresidentialbuildersand

developersclassifiedasnonaccrualaggregated$72millionand$96million,respectively,comparedwith

$182millionatDecember31,2012.Informationaboutthelocationofnonaccrualandcharged-offloansto

residentialrealestatebuildersanddevelopersasofandfortheyearendedDecember31,2014ispresentedin

table13.
Table13
RESIDENTIALBUILDERANDDEVELOPERLOANS,NETOFUNEARNEDDISCOUNT
December31,2014
YearEnded
December31,2014
NonaccrualNetCharge-offs(Recoveries)
OutstandingBalances(a)BalancesPercentof
OutstandingBalancesBalancesPercentofAverage
OutstandingBalances(Dollarsinthousands)
NewYork
.........................$
590,093$8,4351.43%$140.03%
Pennsylvania.......................133,45938,25528.66(80)(.06)
Mid-Atlantic.......................409,88212,3893.02(2,108)(.45)
Other.............................357,91015,3704.29(144)(.05)
Total.............................$1,491,344$74,4494.99%$(2,192)(.16)%
(a)Includesapproximately$26millionofloansnotsecuredbyrealestate,ofwhichapproximately$2millionarein
nonaccrualstatus.
Netcharge-offsofresidentialrealestateloanstotaled$13millionineachof2014and2013and$38
millionin2012.Thelowernetcharge-offsofsuchloansin2014and2013ascomparedwith2012reflect

lowerAlt-Aloancharge-offsandgenerallyimprovedeconomicconditionsandresidentialrealestate

valuations.ResidentialrealestateloansinnonaccrualstatusatDecember31,2014totaled$258million,

comparedwith$334millionand$345millionatDecember31,2013and2012,respectively.Thedecreasein
61residentialrealestateloansclassifiedasnonaccrualfromDecember31,2013tothe2014year-endwas
predominantlyrelatedtothepayoffduringthesecondquarterof2014of$64millionofloanstoone

customerthatweresecuredbyresidentialrealestate.Netcharge-offsofAlt-Afirstmortgageloanswere$4

millionin2014,$8millionin2013and$20millionin2012.NonaccrualAlt-Afirstmortgageloans

aggregated$78millionatDecember31,2014,comparedwith$81millionand$96millionatDecember31,

2013and2012,respectively.Residentialrealestateloanspastdue90daysormoreandaccruinginterest

(excludingacquiredloans)totaled$216million,$295millionand$313millionatDecember31,2014,2013

and2012,respectively.Asubstantialportionofsuchamountsrelatedtoguaranteedloansrepurchasedfrom

government-relatedentities.Informationaboutthelocationofnonaccrualandcharged-offresidentialreal

estateloansasofandfortheyearendedDecember31,2014ispresentedintable14.
Consumerloannetcharge-offsduring2014were$68million,comparedwith$60millionin2013
and$83millionin2012.Includedinnetcharge-offsofconsumerloanswere:automobileloansof$14

millionin2014,$11millionin2013and$14millionin2012;recreationalvehicleloansof$13million,$15

millionand$18millionduring2014,2013and2012,respectively;andhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit

securedbyone-to-fourfamilyresidentialpropertiesof$19millionin2014,$12millionin2013and$31

millionin2012.Reflectedinnetcharge-offsofhomeequityloansandlinesofcreditin2013were$9million

ofrecoveriesofpreviouslycharged-offloansrelatedtoaportfolioofloansacquiredin2007.Nonaccrual

consumerloanstotaled$125millionateachofDecember31,2014and2013,comparedwith$104millionat

December31,2012.Includedinnonaccrualconsumerloansatthe2014,2013and2012year-endswere:

automobileloansof$18million,$21millionand$25million,respectively;recreationalvehicleloansof$11

million,$12millionand$10million,respectively;andoutstandingbalancesofhomeequityloansandlines

ofcredit,includingjuniorlienAlt-Aloans,of$89million,$79millionand$58million,respectively.

Informationaboutthelocationofnonaccrualandcharged-offhomeequityloansandlinesofcreditasof

andfortheyearendedDecember31,2014ispresentedintable14.
62Table14
SELECTEDRESIDENTIALREALESTATE-RELATEDLOANDATA
YearEnded
December31,2014
December31,2014
NetCharge-offs
NonaccrualPercentof
AverageOutstandingBalancesOutstandingBalancesBalancesPercentof
OutstandingBalancesBalances(Dollarsinthousands)
Residentialmortgages
NewYork
.........................................$3,536,476$66,3651.88%$3,494.10%
Pennsylvania.......................................1,121,52020,2861.811,461.13
Mid-Atlantic.......................................2,059,11435,2101.712,679.13
Other.............................................1,566,36356,6323.621,222.08
Total.............................................$8,283,473$178,4932.15%$8,856.11%
Residentialconstructionloans
NewYork
.........................................$
6,785$1341.97%$(10)(.14)%
Pennsylvania.......................................3,62867618.6423610.31
Mid-Atlantic.......................................10,51234.33ŠŠ
Other.............................................13,6159386.89(45)(.28)
Total.............................................$
34,540$1,7825.16%$181.54%
Alt-Afirstmortgages
NewYork
.........................................$
56,922$17,50230.75%$8711.45%
Pennsylvania.......................................10,5962,90827.4430.27
Mid-Atlantic.......................................67,68611,29616.691,0451.47
Other.............................................204,08445,99822.541,789.82
Total.............................................$
339,288$77,70422.90%$3,7351.04%
Alt-Ajuniorlien
NewYork
.........................................$
1,098$454.10%$27322.37%
Pennsylvania.......................................35635
9.55245.95
Mid-Atlantic.......................................3,0091143.792467.54
Other.............................................6,8305598.1882610.96
Total.............................................$
11,293$7536.67%$1,36911.03%
Firstlienhomeequityloans
NewYork
.........................................$
18,280$2,21212.10%$131.61%
Pennsylvania.......................................59,0223,7686.38301.43
Mid-Atlantic.......................................77,5721,1621.50284.32
Other.............................................2,93445315.421103.80
Total.............................................$
157,808$7,5954.81%$826.45%
Firstlienhomeequitylines
NewYork
.........................................$1,372,566$15,1291.10%$1,646.12%
Pennsylvania.......................................843,9806,380.76874.10
Mid-Atlantic.......................................869,9263,193.37645.07
Other.............................................38,9471,4863.81150.44
Total.............................................$3,125,419$26,188.84%$3,315.11%
Juniorlienhomeequityloans
NewYork
.........................................$
14,878$4,44029.85%$5122.92%
Pennsylvania.......................................18,7909635.13(57)(.26)
Mid-Atlantic.......................................63,7861,1941.87378.52
Other.............................................8,0296978.6894410.79
Total.............................................$
105,483$7,2946.92%$1,7771.48%
Juniorlienhomeequitylines
NewYork
.........................................$
956,282$31,1853.26%$6,527.68%
Pennsylvania.......................................394,0754,7851.211,521.39
Mid-Atlantic.......................................1,202,2279,762.812,660.22
Other.............................................69,2971,7292.507201.04
Total.............................................$2,621,881$47,4611.81%$11,428.44%
63InformationaboutpastdueandnonaccrualloansasofDecember31,2014isalsoincludedinnote4
ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Realestateandotherforeclosedassetstotaled$64millionatDecember31,2014,comparedwith$67
millionatDecember31,2013and$104millionatDecember31,2012.Thedeclineinrealestateandother

foreclosedassetsduring2013reflectssalesofsuchassets.Gainsorlossesresultingfromsalesofrealestate

andotherforeclosedassetswerenotmaterialin2014,2013or2012.AtDecember31,2014,theCompany™s

holdingofresidentialrealestate-relatedpropertiescomprisedapproximately79%offoreclosedassets.
Managementdeterminedtheallowanceforcreditlossesbyperformingongoingevaluationsofthe
loanandleaseportfolio,includingsuchfactorsasthedifferingeconomicrisksassociatedwitheachloan

category,thefinancialconditionofspecificborrowers,theeconomicenvironmentinwhichborrowers

operate,thelevelofdelinquentloans,thevalueofanycollateraland,whereapplicable,theexistenceofany

guaranteesorindemnifications.Managementevaluatedtheimpactofchangesininterestratesandoverall

economicconditionsontheabilityofborrowerstomeetrepaymentobligationswhenquantifyingthe

Company™sexposuretocreditlossesandtheallowanceforsuchlossesasofeachreportingdate.Factorsalso

consideredbymanagementwhenperformingitsassessment,inadditiontogeneraleconomicconditions

andtheotherfactorsdescribedabove,included,butwerenotlimitedto:(i)theimpactofresidentialreal

estatevaluesontheCompany™sportfolioofloanstoresidentialrealestatebuildersanddevelopersandother

loanssecuredbyresidentialrealestate;(ii)theconcentrationsofcommercialrealestateloansinthe

Company™sloanportfolio;(iii)theamountofcommercialandindustrialloanstobusinessesinareasofNew

YorkStateoutsideoftheNewYorkCitymetropolitanareaandincentralPennsylvaniathathavehistorically

experiencedlesseconomicgrowthandvitalitythanthevastmajorityofotherregionsofthecountry;(iv)the

repaymentperformanceassociatedwiththeCompany™sfirstandsecondlienloanssecuredbyresidential

realestate;and(v)thesizeoftheCompany™sportfolioofloanstoindividualconsumers,whichhistorically

haveexperiencedhighernetcharge-offsasapercentageofloansoutstandingthanotherloantypes.Thelevel

oftheallowanceisadjustedbasedontheresultsofmanagement™sanalysis.
Managementcautiouslyandconservativelyevaluatedtheallowanceforcreditlossesasof
December31,2014inlightof:(i)residentialrealestatevaluesandthelevelofdelinquenciesofloanssecured

byresidentialrealestate;(ii)economicconditionsinthemarketsservedbytheCompany;(iii)continuing

weaknessinindustrialemploymentinupstateNewYorkandcentralPennsylvania;(iv)thesignificant

subjectivityinvolvedincommercialrealestatevaluations;and(v)theamountofloangrowthexperienced

bytheCompany.Whiletherehasbeengeneralimprovementineconomicconditions,concernscontinueto

existaboutthestrengthandsustainabilityofsuchimprovements;thetroubledstateoffinancialandcredit

markets,includingtheimpactinternationaleconomicconditionscouldhaveontheU.S.economy;Federal

Reservepositioningofmonetarypolicy;lowlevelsofworkforceparticipation;andcontinuedstagnant

populationgrowthintheupstateNewYorkandcentralPennsylvaniaregions(approximately60%ofthe

Company™sloansaretocustomersinNewYorkStateandPennsylvania).
TheCompanyutilizesaloangradingsystemwhichisappliedtoallcommercialandcommercialreal
estateloans.Loangradesareutilizedtodifferentiateriskwithintheportfolioandconsidertheexpectations

ofdefaultforeachloan.Commercialloansandcommercialrealestateloanswithalowerexpectationof

defaultareassignedoneoftenpossibleﬁpassﬂloangradesandaregenerallyascribedlowerlossfactorswhen

determiningtheallowanceforcreditlosses.Loanswithanelevatedlevelofcreditriskareclassifiedas

ﬁcriticizedﬂandareascribedahigherlossfactorwhendeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses.Criticized

loansmaybeclassifiedasﬁnonaccrualﬂiftheCompanynolongerexpectstocollectallamountsaccordingto

thecontractualtermsoftheloanagreementortheloanisdelinquent90daysormore.Criticized

commercialloansandcommercialrealestateloanswere$1.8billionateachofDecember31,2014and2013.

Loanofficerswiththesupportofloanreviewpersonnelindifferentgeographiclocationsareresponsibleto

continuouslyreviewandreassignloangradestopassandcriticizedloansbasedontheirdetailedknowledge

ofindividualborrowersandtheirjudgmentoftheimpactonsuchborrowersresultingfromchanging

conditionsintheirrespectivegeographicregions.Onaquarterlybasis,theCompany™scentralizedloan

reviewdepartmentreviewsallcriticizedcommercialandcommercialrealestateloansgreaterthan$1million

todeterminetheappropriatenessoftheassignedloangrade,includingwhethertheloanshouldbereported

asaccruingornonaccruing.Forcriticizednonaccrualloans,additionalmeetingsareheldwithloanofficers

andtheirmanagers,workoutspecialistsandseniormanagementtodiscusseachoftherelationships.In

analyzingcriticizedloans,borrower-specificinformationisreviewed,includingoperatingresults,future

cashflows,recentdevelopmentsandtheborrower™soutlook,andotherpertinentdata.Thetimingand

extentofpotentiallosses,consideringcollateralvaluationandotherfactors,andtheCompany™spotential
64coursesofactionarereviewed.Totheextentthattheseloansarecollateral-dependent,theyareevaluated
basedonthefairvalueoftheloan™scollateralasestimatedatornearthefinancialstatementdate.Asthe

qualityofaloandeterioratestothepointofclassifyingtheloanasﬁcriticized,ﬂtheprocessofobtaining

updatedcollateralvaluationinformationisusuallyinitiated,unlessitisnotconsideredwarrantedgiven

factorssuchastherelativesizeoftheloan,thecharacteristicsofthecollateralortheageofthelastvaluation.

Inthosecaseswherecurrentappraisalsmaynotyetbeavailable,priorappraisalsareutilizedwith

adjustments,asdeemednecessary,forestimatesofsubsequentdeclinesinvalueasdeterminedbylineof

businessand/orloanworkoutpersonnelintherespectivegeographicregions.Thoseadjustmentsare

reviewedandassessedforreasonablenessbytheCompany™sloanreviewdepartment.Accordingly,forreal

estatecollateralsecuringlargercommercialandcommercialrealestateloans,estimatedcollateralvaluesare

basedoncurrentappraisalsandestimatesofvalue.Fornon-realestateloans,collateralisassigneda

discountedestimatedliquidationvalueand,dependingonthenatureofthecollateral,isverifiedthrough

fieldexamsorotherprocedures.Inassessingcollateral,realestateandnon-realestatevaluesarereducedby

anestimateofsellingcosts.Withregardtoresidentialrealestateloans,theCompany™slossidentification

andestimationtechniquesmakereferencetoloanperformanceandhousepricedatainspecificareasofthe

countrywherecollateralthatwassecuringtheCompany™sresidentialrealestateloanswaslocated.For

residentialrealestate-relatedloans,includinghomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,theexcessoftheloan

balanceoverthenetrealizablevalueofthepropertycollateralizingtheloanischarged-offwhentheloan

becomes150daysdelinquent.Thatcharge-offisbasedonrecentindicationsofvaluefromexternalparties

thataregenerallyobtainedshortlyafteraloanbecomesnonaccrual.AtDecember31,2014,approximately

55%oftheCompany™shomeequityportfolioconsistedoffirstlienloansandlinesofcredit.Ofthe

remainingjuniorlienloansintheportfolio,approximately73%(orapproximately32%oftheaggregate

homeequityportfolio)consistedofjuniorlienloansthatwerebehindafirstlienmortgageloanthatwasnot

ownedorservicedbytheCompany.TotheextentknownbytheCompany,ifaseniorlienloanwouldbeon

nonaccrualstatusbecauseofpaymentdelinquency,evenifsuchseniorlienloanwasnotownedbythe

Company,thejuniorlienloanorlinethatisownedbytheCompanyisplacedonnonaccrualstatus.At

December31,2014,thebalanceofjuniorlienloansandlinesthatwereinnonaccrualstatussolelyasaresult

offirstlienloanperformancewas$24million,comparedwith$30millionatDecember31,2013.In

monitoringthecreditqualityofitshomeequityportfolioforpurposesofdeterminingtheallowancefor

creditlosses,theCompanyreviewsdelinquencyandnonaccrualinformationandconsidersrecentcharge-off

experience.Additionally,theCompanygenerallyevaluateshomeequityloansandlinesofcreditthatare

morethan150dayspastdueforcollectibilityonaloan-by-loanbasisandtheexcessoftheloanbalanceover

thenetrealizablevalueofthepropertycollateralizingtheloanischarged-offatthattime.Indeterminingthe

amountofsuchcharge-offs,iftheCompanydoesnotknowtheamountoftheremainingfirstlienmortgage

loan(typicallybecausetheCompanydoesnotownorservicethefirstlienloan),theCompanyassumesthat

thefirstlienmortgageloanhashadnoprincipalamortizationsincetheoriginationofthejuniorlienloan.

Similarly,datausedinestimatingincurredlossesforpurposesofdeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses

alsoassumesnoreductionsinoutstandingprincipaloffirstlienloanssincetheoriginationofthejuniorlien

loan.Homeequitylineofcredittermsvarybutsuchlinesaregenerallyoriginatedwithanopendrawperiod

oftenyearsfollowedbyanamortizationperiodofuptotwentyyears.AtDecember31,2014,approximately

92%ofalloutstandingbalancesofhomeequitylinesofcreditrelatedtolinesthatwerestillinthedraw

period,theweighted-averageremainingdrawperiodswereapproximatelyfiveyears,andapproximately

17%weremakingcontractuallyallowedpaymentsthatdonotincludeanyrepaymentofprincipal.
FactorsthatinfluencetheCompany™screditlossexperienceincludeoveralleconomicconditions
affectingbusinessesandconsumers,generally,butalsoresidentialandcommercialrealestatevaluations,in

particular,giventhesizeoftheCompany™srealestateloanportfolios.Commercialrealestatevaluationscan

behighlysubjective,astheyarebaseduponmanyassumptions.Suchvaluationscanbesignificantlyaffected

overrelativelyshortperiodsoftimebychangesinbusinessclimate,economicconditions,interestrates,and,

inmanycases,theresultsofoperationsofbusinessesandotheroccupantsoftherealproperty.Similarly,

residentialrealestatevaluationscanbeimpactedbyhousingtrends,theavailabilityoffinancingat

reasonableinterestrates,andgeneraleconomicconditionsaffectingconsumers.
Indeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanyestimateslossesattributabletospecific
troubledcreditsidentifiedthroughbothnormalanddetailedorintensifiedcreditreviewprocessesandalso

estimateslossesinherentinotherloansandleases.Inquantifyingincurredlosses,theCompanyconsiders

thefactorsandusesthetechniquesdescribedhereinandinnote5ofNotestoFinancialStatements.For

purposesofdeterminingtheleveloftheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanysegmentsitsloanandlease
65portfoliobyloantype.TheamountofspecificlosscomponentsintheCompany™sloanandleaseportfoliosis
determinedthroughaloan-by-loananalysisofcommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloansin

nonaccrualstatus.Measurementofthespecificloss
componentsistypicallybasedonexpectedfuturecash
flows,collateralvaluesorotherfactorsthatmayimpacttheborrower™sabilitytopay.Lossesassociatedwith

residentialrealestateloansandconsumerloansaregenerallydeterminedbyreferencetorecentcharge-off

historyandareevaluated(andadjustedifdeemedappropriate)throughconsiderationofotherfactors

includingnear-termforecastedlossestimatesdevelopedbytheCompany™screditdepartment.Theseforecasts

giveconsiderationtooverallborrowerrepaymentpe
rformanceandcurrentgeographicregionchangesin
collateralvaluesusingthirdpartypublishedhistoricalpriceindicesorautomatedvaluationmethodologies.

Withregardtocollateralvalues,therealizabilityofsuchvaluesbytheCompanycontemplatesrepaymentof

anyfirstlienpositionpriortorecoveringamountsonajuniorlienposition.Approximately45%ofthe

Company™shomeequityportfolioconsistsofjuniorlienloansandlinesofcredit.Exceptforconsumerloans

andresidentialrealestateloansthatareconsideredsmallerbalancehomogeneousloansandareevaluated

collectivelyandloansobtainedinacquisitiontransactions,theCompanyconsidersaloantobeimpairedwhen,

basedoncurrentinformationandevents,itisprobablethattheCompanywillbeunabletocollectallamounts

accordingtothecontractualtermsoftheloanagreementortheloanisdelinquent90daysormoreandhas

beenplacedinnonaccrualstatus.Thoseimpairedloansareevaluatedforspecificlosscomponents.Modified

loans,includingsmallerbalancehomogenousloans,thatareconsideredtobetroubleddebtrestructuringsare

evaluatedforimpairmentgivingconsiderationtotheimpactofthemodifiedloantermsonthepresentvalueof

theloan™sexpectedcashflows.Loanslessthan90daysdelinquentaredeemedtohaveaminimaldelayin

paymentandaregenerallynotconsideredtobeimpaired.Loansacquiredinconnectionwithacquisition

transactionssubsequentto2008wererecordedatfairvaluewithnocarry-overofanypreviouslyrecorded

allowanceforcreditlosses.Determiningthefairvalueoftheacquiredloansrequiredestimatingcashflows

expectedtobecollectedontheloansanddiscountingt
hosecashflowsatthen-currentinterestrates.The
impactofestimatedfuturecreditlossesrepresentsthe
predominantdifferencebetweencontractuallyrequired
paymentsatacquisitionandthecashflowsexpectedtob
ecollectedatacquisition.Subsequentdecreasesto
thoseexpectedcashflowsrequiretheCompanytoevaluatetheneedforanadditionalallowanceforcredit

lossesandcouldleadtocharge-offsofacquiredloanbalances.
TheinherentbaselevellosscomponentsoftheCompany™sallowanceforcreditlossesaregenerally
determinedbyapplyinglossfactorstospecificloanbalancesbasedonloantypeandmanagement™s

classificationofsuchloansundertheCompany™sloangradingsystem.TheCompanyutilizesaloangrading

systemwhichisappliedtoallcommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloans.Aspreviouslydescribed,

loanofficersareresponsibleforcontinuallyassigninggradestotheseloansbasedonstandardsoutlinedin

theCompany™sCreditPolicy.InternalloangradesarealsoextensivelymonitoredbytheCompany™sloan

reviewdepartmenttoensureconsistencyandstrictadherencetotheprescribedstandards.Loanbalances

utilizedintheinherentbaselevellosscomponentcomputationsexcludeloansandleasesforwhichspecific

allocationsaremaintained.LoangradesareassignedlosscomponentfactorsthatreflecttheCompany™sloss

estimateforeachgroupofloansandleases.Factorsconsideredinassigningloangradesandlosscomponent

factorsincludeborrower-specificinformationrelatedtoexpectedfuturecashflowsandoperatingresults,

collateralvalues,financialcondition,paymentstatus,andotherinformation;levelsofandtrendsin

portfoliocharge-offsandrecoveries;levelsofandtrendsinportfoliodelinquenciesandimpairedloans;

changesintheriskprofileofspecificportfolios;trendsinvolumeandtermsofloans;effectsofchangesin

creditconcentrations;andobservedtrendsandpracticesinthebankingindustry.Indeterminingthe

allowanceforcreditlosses,managementalsogivesconsiderationtosuchfactorsascustomer,industryand

geographicconcentrations,aswellasnationalandlocaleconomicconditions,including:(i)the

comparativelypoorereconomicconditionsandunfavorablebusinessclimateinmanymarketregionsserved

bytheCompany,includingupstateNewYorkandcentralPennsylvania,thatresultinsuchregionsgenerally

experiencingsignificantlypoorereconomicgrowthandvitalityascomparedwithmuchoftherestofthe

country;(ii)portfolioconcentrationsregardingloantype,collateraltypeandgeographiclocation,in

particularthelargeconcentrationsofcommercialrealestateloanssecuredbypropertiesintheNewYork

CitymetropolitanareaandotherareasofNewYorkState;and(iii)riskassociatedwiththeCompany™s

portfolioofconsumerloans,inparticularautomobileloansandleases,whichgenerallyhavehigherratesof

lossthanothertypesofcollateralizedloans.
Theinherentbaselevellosscomponentsrelatedtoresidentialrealestateloansandconsumerloans
aregenerallydeterminedbyapplyinglossfactorstoportfoliobalancesafterconsiderationofpayment

performanceandrecentlossexperienceandtrends,whicharemainlydrivenbycurrentcollateralvaluesin
66themarketplaceaswellastheamountofloandefaults.Lossratesforloanssecuredbyresidentialrealestate,
includinghomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,aredeterminedbyreferencetorecentcharge-offhistoryand

areevaluated(andadjustedifdeemedappropriate)throughconsiderationofotherfactorsaspreviously

described.Inevaluatingcollateral,theCompanyreliesoninternallyandexternallypreparedvaluations.
Residentialrealestatevaluationsareusuallybasedonsalesofcomparablepropertiesintherespective

location.Commercialrealestatevaluationsalsorefertosalesofcomparablepropertiesbutoftentimesare

basedoncalculationsthatutilizemanyassumptionsand,asaresult,canbehighlysubjective.Specifically,

commercialrealestatevaluescanbesignificantlyaffectedoverrelativelyshortperiodsoftimebychangesin

businessclimate,economicconditionsandinterestrates,and,inmanycases,theresultsofoperationsof

businessesandotheroccupantsoftherealproperty.Additionally,managementisawarethatthereis

oftentimesadelayintherecognitionofcreditqualitychangesinloansand,asaresult,inchangesto

assignedloangradesduetotimedelaysinthemanifestationandreportingofunderlyingeventsthatimpact

creditquality.Accordingly,lossestimatesderivedfromtheinherentbaselevellosscomponentcomputation

areadjustedforcurrentnationalandlocaleconomicconditionsandtrends.TheFederalReservestatedin

January2015thateconomicactivityisexpandingataﬁsolidpaceﬂwithstrongjobgainsandalower

unemploymentrate.EconomicindicatorsinthemostsignificantmarketregionsservedbytheCompany

continuedtoimprovein2014.Forexample,during2014,privatesectoremploymentinmostmarketareas

servedbytheCompanyroseby1.1%,buttrailedthe2.2%U.S.average.Privatesectoremploymentin2014

increased0.6%inupstateNewYork,0.7%inareasofPennsylvaniaservedbytheCompany,0.8%in

Maryland,0.6%inGreaterWashingtonD.C.and2.7%intheStateofDelaware.InNewYorkCity,private

sectoremploymentincreasedby2.6%in2014,however,unemploymentratesthereremainelevatedandare

expectedtocontinueatabovehistoricallevelsduring2015.TheFederalReservecontinuestomonitor

inflationdevelopmentsclosely,andhashintedatwarinessregardingslowglobalgrowth,astrongU.S.dollar

andinternationalmarketturbulence.
Thespecificlosscomponentsandtheinherentbaselevellosscomponentstogethercomprisethetotal
baselevelorﬁallocatedﬂallowanceforcreditlosses.Suchallocatedportionoftheallowancerepresents

management™sassessmentoflossesexistinginspecificlargerbalanceloansthatarereviewedindetailby

managementandpoolsofotherloansthatarenotindividuallyanalyzed.Inaddition,theCompanyhas

alwaysprovidedaninherentunallocatedportionoftheallowancethatisintendedtorecognizeprobable

lossesthatarenototherwiseidentifiable.Theinherentunallocatedallowanceincludesmanagement™s

subjectivedeterminationofamountsnecessaryforsuchthingsasthepossibleuseofimpreciseestimatesin

determiningtheallocatedportionoftheallowanceandotherrisksassociatedwiththeCompany™sloan

portfoliowhichmaynotbespecificallyallocable.
Acomparativeallocationoftheallowanceforcreditlossesforeachofthepastfiveyear-endsis
presentedintable15.Amountswereallocatedtospecificloancategoriesbasedoninformationavailableto

managementatthetimeofeachyear-endassessmentandusingthemethodologydescribedherein.

Variationsintheallocationoftheallowancebyloancategoryasapercentageofthoseloansreflectchanges

inmanagement™sestimateofspecificlosscomponentsandinherentbaselevellosscomponents,including

theimpactofdelinquenciesandnonaccrualloans.Asdescribedinnote5ofNotestoFinancialStatements,

loansconsideredimpairedwere$762millionand$889millionatDecember31,2014andDecember31,

2013,respectively.Theallocatedportionoftheallowanceforcreditlossesrelatedtoimpairedloanstotaled

$83millionatDecember31,2014and$93millionatDecember31,2013.Theunallocatedportionofthe

allowanceforcreditlosseswasequalto.11%and.12%ofgrossloansoutstandingatDecember31,2014and

2013,respectively.Consideringtheinherentimprecisioninthemanyestimatesusedinthedeterminationof

theallocatedportionoftheallowance,managementdeliberatelyremainedcautiousandconservativein

establishingtheoverallallowanceforcreditlosses.GiventheCompany™shighconcentrationofrealestate

loansandconsideringtheotherfactorsalreadydiscussedherein,managementconsiderstheallocatedand

unallocatedportionsoftheallowanceforcreditlossestobeprudentandreasonable.Furthermore,the

Company™sallowanceisgeneralinnatureandisavailabletoabsorblossesfromanyloanorleasecategory.

Additionalinformationabouttheallowanceforcreditlossesisincludedinnote5ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.67Table15
ALLOCATIONOFTHEALLOWANCEFORCREDITLOSSESTOLOANCATEGORIES
December31
20142013201220112010(Dollarsinthousands)
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
.........$288,038$273,383$246,759$234,022$212,579
Realestate
.............................369,837403,634425,908459,552486,913
Consumer.............................186,033164,644179,418143,121133,067
Unallocated............................75,65475,01573,77571,59570,382
Total................................$919,562$916,676$925,860$908,290$902,941
AsaPercentageofGrossLoans
andLeasesOutstanding
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
.........1.47%1.45%1.37%1.47%1.56%
Realestate
.............................1.021.151.141.421.79
Consumer.............................1.701.601.551.191.16
ManagementbelievesthattheallowanceforcreditlossesatDecember31,2014appropriately
reflectedcreditlossesinherentintheportfolioasofthatdate.Theallowanceforcreditlosseswas$920

millionor1.38%oftotalloansandleasesatDecember31,2014,comparedwith$917millionor1.43%at

December31,2013and$926millionor1.39%atDecember31,2012.Theratiooftheallowancetototal

loansandleasesateachrespectiveyear-endreflectstheimpactofloansobtainedinacquisitiontransactions

subsequentto2008thathavebeenrecordedatestimatedfairvaluebasedonestimatedfuturecashflows

expectedtobereceivedonthoseloans.Thosecashflowsreflecttheimpactofexpecteddefaultsoncustomer

repaymentperformance.Asnotedearlier,GAAPprohibitsanycarry-overofanallowanceforcreditlosses

foracquiredloansrecordedatfairvalue.Thedeclineintheratiooftheallowancetototalloansandleases

fromDecember31,2013tothe2014year-endreflectstheimpactofimprovementinthelevelsofcriticized

andnonaccrualloans,netcharge-offsandoverallrepaymentperformancebycustomers.During2013,the

allowanceforcreditlosseswasreducedby$11millionasaresultofthe$1.4billionautomobileloan

securitizationpreviouslynoted.Theincreaseintheratiooftheallowancetototalloansandleasesfromthe

2012year-endtoDecember31,2013waslargelyduetotheautomobileloansecuritizationandthe

securitizationof$1.3billionofFHAguaranteedresidentialrealestateloans.Theleveloftheallowance

reflectsmanagement™sevaluationoftheloanandleaseportfoliousingthemethodologyandconsideringthe

factorsasdescribedherein.Shouldthevariouscreditfactorsconsideredbymanagementinestablishingthe

allowanceforcreditlosseschangeandshouldmanagement™sassessmentoflossesinherentintheloan

portfoliosalsochange,theleveloftheallowanceasapercentageofloanscouldincreaseordecreaseinfuture

periods.Theratiooftheallowancetononaccrualloansattheendof2014,2013and2012was115%,105%

and91%,respectively.GiventheCompany™spositionasasecuredlenderanditspracticeofcharging-off

loanbalanceswhencollectionisdeemeddoubtful,thatratioandchangesinthatratioaregenerallynotan

indicativemeasureoftheadequacyoftheCompany™sallowanceforcreditlosses,nordoesmanagementrely

uponthatratioinassessingtheadequacyoftheallowance.Theleveloftheallowancereflectsmanagement™s

evaluationoftheloanandleaseportfolioasofeachrespectivedate.
Inestablishingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,managementfollowsthemethodologydescribed
herein,includingtakingaconservativeviewofborrowers™abilitiestorepayloans.Theestablishmentofthe

allowanceisextremelysubjectiveandrequiresmanagementtomakemanyjudgmentsaboutborrower,

industry,regionalandnationaleconomichealthandperformance.Inordertopresentexamplesofthe

possibleimpactontheallowancefromcertainchangesincreditqualityfactors,theCompanyassumedthe

followingscenariosforpossibledeteriorationofcreditquality:
ŠForconsumerloansandleasesconsideredsmallerbalancehomogenousloansandevaluated

collectively,a50basispointincreaseinlossfactors;
ŠForresidentialrealestateloansandhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,alsoconsideredsmaller

balancehomogenousloansandevaluatedcollectively,a25%increaseinestimatedinherentlosses;

andŠForcommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloans,amigrationofloanstolower-rankedrisk

gradesresultingina25%increaseinthebalanceofclassifiedcreditsineachriskgrade.
68Forpossibleimprovementincreditqualityfactors,thescenariosassumedwere:
ŠForconsumerloansandleases,a20basispointdecreaseinlossfactors;
ŠForresidentialrealestateloansandhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,a10%decreasein
estimatedinherentlosses;and
ŠForcommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloans,amigrationofloanstohigher-rankedrisk

gradesresultingina5%decreaseinthebalanceofclassifiedcreditsineachriskgrade.
Thescenarioanalysesresultedinanadditional$72millionthatcouldbeidentifiableunderthe
assumptionsforcreditdeterioration,whereasundertheassumptionsforcreditimprovementa$24million

reductioncouldoccur.Theseexamplesareonlyafewofnumerousreasonablypossiblescenariosthatcould

beutilizedinassessingthesensitivityoftheallowanceforcreditlossesbasedonchangesinassumptionsand

otherfactors.
TheCompanyhadnoconcentrationsofcreditextendedtoanyspecificindustrythatexceeded10%
oftotalloansatDecember31,2014.Outstandingloanstoforeignborrowerswere$213millionat

December31,2014,or.3%oftotalloansandleases.
OtherIncome
Otherincometotaled$1.78billionand$1.87billionin2014and2013,respectively.Reflectedinsuch

incomein2013werenetgainsoninvestmentsecurities(includingother-than-temporaryimpairment

losses)of$47million.Therewerenogainsorlossesoninvestmentsecuritiesin2014.Alsoreflectedin

noninterestincomein2013weregainsfromsecuritizationactivitiesof$63million.Excludingthespecific

itemsmentionedabove,noninterestincomein2014wasup$24millionfrom$1.76billionin2013.Higher

residentialmortgagebankingrevenuesandtrustincomein2014werepartiallyoffsetbylowerservice

chargesondepositaccountsandtradingaccountandforeignexchangegains.
Otherincomein2013was12%higherthanthe$1.67billionearnedin2012.Asnotedabove,
reflectedinotherincomein2013werenetgainsonbankinvestmentsecuritiesof$47million,compared

withnetlossesof$48millionin2012.Excludingtheimpactofsecuritiesgainsandlossesfrombothyears

andthe$63millionofgainsfromsecuritizationactivitiesin2013,otherincomein2013wasup$40million

from$1.72billionin2012.Higherlevelsoftrust,brokerageservicesandcreditcardinterchangeincomein

2013werepartiallyoffsetbylowermortgagebankingrevenues.
Mortgagebankingrevenuestotaled$363millionin2014,$331millionin2013and$349millionin
2012.Mortgagebankingrevenuesarecomprisedofbothresidentialandcommercialmortgagebanking

activities.TheCompany™sinvolvementincommercialmortgagebankingactivitiesincludestheorigination,

salesandservicingofloansunderthemultifamilyloanprogramsofFannieMae,FreddieMacandtheU.S.

DepartmentofHousingandUrbanDevelopment.
Residentialmortgagebankingrevenues,consistingofrealizedgainsfromsalesofresidentialreal
estateloansandloanservicingrights,unrealizedgainsandlossesonresidentialrealestateloansheldforsale

andrelatedcommitments,residentialrealestateloanservicingfees,andotherresidentialrealestateloan-

relatedfeesandincome,were$287millionin2014,$251millionin2013and$264millionin2012.The

increaseinresidentialmortgagebankingrevenuesfrom2013to2014reflectedasignificantincreasein

revenuesfromservicingresidentialrealestateloansforothers,partiallyoffsetbylowergainsfrom

originationactivitiesduetodecreasedvolumesofloansoriginatedforsale.Thedeclineinrevenuefrom

2012to2013wasduetonarrowermarginsonloansoriginatedforsale.
Newcommitmentstooriginateresidentialrealestateloanstobesoldtotaledapproximately$3.2
billionin2014,comparedwith$5.6billionin2013and$5.1billionin2012.Includedinthosecommitments

tooriginateresidentialrealestateloanstobesoldwerecommitmentsofapproximately$337millionin

2014,$1.1billionin2013and$1.8billionin2012relatedtotheU.S.government™sHomeAffordable

RefinanceProgram(ﬁHARP2.0ﬂ),whichbeganinDecember2011andallowshomeownerstorefinance

theirFannieMaeorFreddieMacmortgageswhenthevalueoftheirhomehasfallensuchthattheyhave

littleornoequity.TheHARP2.0programwassettoexpireDecember31,2013,butwasextendedandwill

nowbeavailabletoborrowersthroughDecember31,2015.Nevertheless,volumesassociatedwiththat

programhavedeclinedsincemid-2013.Realizedgainsfromsalesofresidentialrealestateloansandloan

servicingrights(netoftheimpactofcostsassociatedwithobligationstorepurchaserealestateloans

originatedforsale)andrecognizednetunrealizedgainsorlossesattributabletoresidentialrealestateloans

heldforsale,commitmentstooriginateloansforsaleandcommitmentstosellloanstotaledtoagainof$75

millionin2014,comparedwithgainsof$123millionin2013and$157millionin2012.
69TheCompanyiscontractuallyobligatedtorepurchasepreviouslysoldloansthatdonotultimately
meetinvestorsalecriteriarelatedtounderwritingproceduresorloandocumentation.Whenrequiredtodo

so,theCompanymayreimburseloanpurchasersforlossesincurredormayrepurchasecertainloans.The

Companyreducesresidentialmortgagebankingrevenuesforlossesrelatedtoitsobligationstoloan

purchasers.Theamountofthosechargesvariesbasedonthevolumeofloanssold,thelevelof

reimbursementrequestsreceivedfromloanpurchasersandestimatesoflossesthatmaybeassociatedwith

previouslysoldloans.Residentialmortgagebankingrevenuesduring2014,2013and2012werereducedby

approximately$4million,$17millionand$28million,respectively,relatedtotheactualoranticipated

settlementofrepurchaseobligations.
Loansheldforsalethataresecuredbyresidentialrealestatetotaled$435millionand$401millionat
December31,2014and2013,respectively.Commitmentstosellresidentialrealestateloansand

commitmentstooriginateresidentialrealestateloansforsaleatpre-determinedrateswere$717millionand

$432million,respectively,atDecember31,2014,$725millionand$470million,respectively,at

December31,2013and$2.3billionand$1.6billion,respectively,atDecember31,2012.Netrecognized

unrealizedgainsonresidentialrealestateloansheldforsale,commitmentstosellloansandcommitmentsto

originateloansforsalewere$19millionand$20millionatDecember31,2014and2013,respectively,and

$83millionatDecember31,2012.Changesinsuchnetunrealizedgainsandlossesarerecordedinmortgage

bankingrevenuesandresultedinnetdecreasesinrevenueof$1millionand$63millionin2014and2013,

respectively,andanetincreaseinrevenueof$77millionin2012.
Revenuesfromservicingresidentialrealestateloansforothersroseto$212millionin2014,upfrom
$128millionin2013and$107millionin2012.Residentialrealestateloansservicedforotherstotaled$67.2

billionatDecember31,2014,$72.4billionayearearlierand$35.9billionatDecember31,2012and

includedcertainsmall-balancecommercialrealestateloans.Reflectedinresidentialrealestateloansserviced

forotherswereloanssub-servicedforothersof$42.1billion,$46.6billionand$12.5billionatDecember31,

2014,2013and2012,respectively.Revenuesearnedforsub-servicingloanswere$116millionin2014,$35

millionin2013and$12millionin2012.Thecontractualservicingrightsassociatedwithloanssub-serviced

bytheCompanywerepredominantlyheldbyaffiliatesofBayviewLendingGroupLLC(ﬁBLGﬂ).Duringthe

thirdquarterof2013,theCompanyaddedapproximately$38billionofresidentialrealestateloanstoits

portfolioofloanssub-servicedforaffiliatesofBLG.Capitalizedresidentialmortgageservicingassets,netof

anyapplicablevaluationallowanceforpossibleimpairment,totaled$111millionatDecember31,2014,

comparedwith$129millionand$108millionatDecember31,2013and2012,respectively.Includedin

capitalizedresidentialmortgageservicingassetsnotedabovewerepurchasedservicingrightsassociatedwith

thesmall-balancecommercialrealestateloans.AdditionalinformationabouttheCompany™scapitalized

residentialmortgageservicingassets,includinginformationaboutthecalculationofestimatedfairvalue,is

presentedinnote7ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Commercialmortgagebankingrevenueswere$76millionin2014,$80millionin2013and$85
millionin2012.Includedinsuchamountswererevenuesfromloanoriginationandsalesactivitiesof$41

millionin2014,$48millionin2013and$59millionin2012.Commercialrealestateloansoriginatedfor

saletootherinvestorstotaledapproximately$1.5billionin2014,comparedwith$1.9billionin2013and

$2.5billionin2012.Loanservicingrevenuestotaled$35millionin2014,$32millionin2013and$26

millionin2012.Capitalizedcommercialmortgageservicingassetsaggregated$73millionatDecember31,

2014,$72millionatDecember31,2013and$60millionatDecember31,2012.Commercialrealestateloans

servicedforotherinvestorstotaled$11.3billionatDecember31,2014,$11.4billionatDecember31,2013

and$10.6billionatDecember31,2012,andincluded$2.4billion,$2.3billionand$2.0billion,respectively,

ofloanbalancesforwhichinvestorshadrecoursetotheCompanyifsuchbalancesareultimately

uncollectible.Commitmentstosellcommercialrealestateloansandcommitmentstooriginatecommercial

realestateloansforsalewere$520millionand$212million,respectively,atDecember31,2014,$130

millionand$62million,respectively,atDecember31,2013and$340millionand$140million,respectively,

atDecember31,2012.Commercialrealestateloansheldforsaletotaled$308million,$68millionand$200

millionatDecember31,2014,2013and2012,respectively.
Servicechargesondepositaccountswere$428millionin2014,comparedwith$447millionineach
of2013and2012.Thedeclinefrom2013to2014resultedfromlowerconsumerservicecharges,largely

overdraftfeesandATMinterchangefees.
Trustincomeincludesfeesrelatedtotwosignificantbusinesses.TheInstitutionalClientServices
(ﬁICSﬂ)businessprovidesavarietyoftrustee,agency,investmentmanagementandadministrativeservices

forcorporationsandinstitutions,investmentbankers,corporatetax,financeandlegalexecutives,andother
70institutionalclientswho:(i)usecapitalmarketsfinancingstructures;(ii)useindependenttrusteestohold
retirementplanandotherassets;and(iii)needinvestmentandcashmanagementservices.TheWealth

AdvisoryServices(ﬁWASﬂ)businesshelpshighnetworthclientsgrowtheirwealth,protectit,andtransferit

totheirheirs.Acomprehensivearrayofwealthmanagementservicesareoffered,includingasset

management,fiduciaryservicesandfamilyofficeservices.Trustincomeincreasedto$508millionin2014

from$496millionin2013and$472millionin2012.RevenuesattributabletotheICSbusinesswere

approximately$244millionin2014and$234millionin2013.RevenuesattributabletoWASwere

approximately$224millionand$214millionin2014and2013,respectively.Priorto2013,certainother

trustoperationsoftheCompanywerenotcombinedwiththerespectiveICSandWASactivities.Revenues

associatedwiththeICSandWASbusinessesin2012were$193millionand$153million,respectively.Total

trustassets,whichincludeassetsundermanagementandassetsunderadministration,aggregated$287.9

billionatDecember31,2014,comparedwith$266.1billionatDecember31,2013.Trustassetsunder

managementwere$68.2billionand$65.1billionatDecember31,2014and2013,respectively.The

Company™sproprietarymutualfundshadassetsof$13.3billionand$12.7billionatDecember31,2014and

2013,respectively.TheCompanyhasagreedtosellin2015thetradeprocessingbusinessofasubsidiaryof

WilmingtonTrust,N.A.Revenuesrelatedtothatbusinessreflectedintrustincome(intheICSbusiness)

during2014,2013and2012wereapproximately$40million,$45millionand$52million,respectively.After

consideringrelatedexpenses,includingtheportionofthoserevenuespaidtosub-advisors,netincome

attributabletothebusinessbeingsoldduringthoseyearswasnotmaterialtotheconsolidatedresultsof

operationsoftheCompany.TheCompanyexpectstorealizeagainfromthesale.
Brokerageservicesincome,whichincludesrevenuesfromthesaleofmutualfundsandannuitiesand
securitiesbrokeragefees,totaled$67millionin2014,$66millionin2013and$59millionin2012.The

increaseoverthepasttwoyearsreflectshighersalesofannuityproducts.Tradingaccountandforeign

exchangeactivityresultedingainsof$30millionin2014,$41millionin2013and$36millionin2012.The

variationinsuchgainsfrom2012through2014largelyreflectschangesintheinterestrateswaptransactions

executedonbehalfofcommercialcustomers.Thedeclineinthosegainsin2014wasalsoduetodecreased

marketvaluesoftradingaccountassetsheldinconnectionwithdeferredcompensationarrangements.The

Companyentersintointerestrateandforeignexchangecontractswithcustomerswhoneedsuchservices

andconcomitantlyentersintooffsettingtradingpositionswiththirdpartiestominimizetherisksinvolved

withthesetypesoftransactions.Informationaboutthenotionalamountofinterestrate,foreignexchange

andothercontractsenteredintobytheCompanyfortradingaccountpurposesisincludedinnote18of

NotestoFinancialStatementsandhereinundertheheadingﬁLiquidity,MarketRisk,andInterestRate

Sensitivity.ﬂIncludingother-than-temporaryimpairmentlosses,theCompanyrecognizednetgainson
investmentsecuritiesof$47millionduring2013,comparedwithnetlossesof$48millionin2012.There

werenogainsorlossesoninvestmentsecuritiesin2014.During2013,theCompanysolditsholdingsofVisa

ClassBsharesforagainofapproximately$90millionanditsholdingsofMasterCardClassBsharesfora

gainof$13million.ThesharesofVisaandMasterCardweresoldasaresultoffavorablemarketconditions

andtoenhancetheCompany™scapitalandliquidity.Inaddition,theCompanysoldsubstantiallyallofits

privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesheldintheavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesportfolio.In

total,$1.0billionofsuchsecuritiesweresoldforanetlossofapproximately$46million.Themortgage-

backedsecuritiesweresoldtoreducetheCompany™sexposuretosuchrelativelyhigherrisksecuritiesin

favoroflowerriskGinnieMaesecuritiesinresponsetochangingregulatorycapitalandliquiditystandards.

Realizedgainsandlossesfromsalesofinvestmentsecuritieswerenotsignificantin2012.Other-than-

temporaryimpairmentlossesof$10millionand$48millionwererecordedin2013and2012,respectively.

Thoselossesrelatedtoasubsetoftheprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesthatweresoldin2013.

Therewerenoother-than-temporaryimpairmentlossesin2014.EachreportingperiodtheCompany

reviewsitsinvestmentsecuritiesforother-than-temporaryimpairment.Forequitysecurities,theCompany

considersvariousfactorstodetermineifthedeclineinvalueisotherthantemporary,includingtheduration

andextentofthedeclineinvalue,thefactorscontributingtothedeclineinfairvalue,includingthefinancial

conditionoftheissueraswellastheconditionsoftheindustryinwhichitoperates,andtheprospectsfora

recoveryinfairvalueoftheequitysecurity.Fordebtsecurities,theCompanyanalyzesthecreditworthiness

oftheissuerorreviewsthecreditperformanceoftheunderlyingcollateralsupportingthebond.Fordebt

securitiesbackedbypoolsofloans,suchasprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities,theCompany

estimatesthecashflowsoftheunderlyingloancollateralusingforward-lookingassumptionsfordefault

rates,lossseveritiesandprepaymentspeeds.Estimatedcollateralcashflowsarethenutilizedtoestimate
71bond-specificcashflowstodeterminetheultimatecollectibilityofthebond.Ifthepresentvalueofthecash
flowsindicatesthattheCompanyshouldnotexpecttorecovertheentireamortizedcostbasisofabondorif

theCompanyintendstosellthebondoritmorelikelythannotwillberequiredtosellthebondbefore

recoveryofitsamortizedcostbasis,another-than-temporaryimpairmentlossisrecognized.Ifanother-

than-temporaryimpairmentlossisdeemedtohaveoccurred,theinvestmentsecurity™scostbasisisadjusted,

asappropriateforthecircumstances.Additionalinformationaboutother-than-temporaryimpairment

lossesisincludedhereinundertheheadingﬁCapital.ﬂ
M&T™sshareoftheoperatinglossesofBLGwas$17millionin2014,comparedwith$16millionand
$22millionin2013and2012,respectively.TheoperatinglossesofBLGintherespectiveyearsreflect

provisionsforlossesassociatedwithsecuritizedloansandotherloansheldbyBLGandloanservicingand

otheradministrativecosts.UnderGAAP,suchlossesarerequiredtoberecognizedbyBLGdespitethefactthat

manyofthesecuritizedloanlosseswillultimatelybebornebytheunderlyingthirdpartybondholders.As

theseloanlossesarerealizedthroughlaterforeclosureandstilllatersaleofrealestatecollateral,theunderlying

bondswillbecharged-downleadingtoBLG™sfuturerecognitionofdebtextinguishmentgains.Thetimingof

suchdebtextinguishmentisdifficulttopredictandgivenongoingloanlossprovisioning,itisnotpossibleto

projectwhenBLGwillreturntoprofitability.Asaresultofcreditandliquiditydisruptions,BLGceasedits

originationsofsmall-balancecommercialrealestateloansin2008.However,asaresultofpastsecuritization

activities,BLGisentitledtocashflowsfrommortgageassetsthatitownsorthatareownedbyitsaffiliatesand

isalsoentitledtoreceivedistributionsfromaffiliatesthatprovideassetmanagementandotherservices.

Accordingly,theCompanybelievesthatBLGiscapableofrealizingpositivecashflowsthatcouldbeavailable

fordistributiontoitsowners,includingM&T,despitea
lackofpositiveGAAP-earningsfromitscoremortgage
activities.Tothispoint,BLG™saffiliateshavelargelyreinvestedtheirearningstogenerateadditionalservicing

andassetmanagementactivities,furthercontributingt
othevalueofthoseaffiliates.Informationaboutthe
Company™srelationshipwithBLGanditsaffiliatesisincludedinnote24ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Otherrevenuesfromoperationstotaled$400millionin2014,comparedwith$454millionin2013
and$374millionin2012.Reflectedinsuchrevenuesin2013weregainsfromsecuritizationtransactionsof

$63million.During2013,theCompanysecuritizedapproximately$1.3billionofone-to-fourfamily

residentialrealestateloansheldintheCompany™sloanportfolioinguaranteedmortgagesecuritizations

withGinnieMaeandrecognizedgainsof$42million.Inaddition,duringthethirdquarterof2013the

Companysecuritizedandsoldapproximately$1.4billionofautomobileloansheldinitsloanportfolio,

resultinginagainof$21million.TheCompanysecuritizedthoseloanstoimproveitsregulatorycapital

ratiosandstrengthenitsliquidityandriskprofileasaresultofchangingregulatoryrequirements.Loan

servicingfeesassociatedwiththemortgageloansecuritizationsareincludedinmortgagebankingrevenues,

butservicingfeesassociatedwiththeautomobileloansecuritizationareincludedinotherrevenuesfrom

operations.Reflectingafullyearofactivityin2014,thoselatterfeesincreased$7millionfrom2013.
Includedinotherrevenuesfromoperationswerethefollowingsignificantcomponents.Letterofcredit
andothercredit-relatedfeeswere$129million,$132millionand$127millionin2014,2013and2012,

respectively.Tax-exemptincomeearnedfrombankownedlifeinsurancetotaled$50millionin2014,

comparedwith$56millionin2013and$51millionin2012.Suchincomeincludesincreasesincashsurrender

valueoflifeinsurancepoliciesandbenefitsreceived.Revenuesfrommerchantdiscountandcreditcardfees

were$96millionin2014,$84millionin2013and$77millionin2012.Thecontinuedtrendofhigherrevenues

in2014and2013waslargelyattributabletoincreasedtransactionvolumesrelatedtomerchantactivityand

usageoftheCompany™screditcardproducts.Insuranc
e-relatedsalescommissionsandotherrevenuestotaled
$42millionineachof2014and2013,comparedwith$44millionin2012.Automatedtellermachineusagefees

aggregated$15million,$17millionand$19millionin2014,2013and2012,respectively.
OtherExpense
Otherexpensetotaled$2.74billionin2014,comparedwith$2.64billionin2013and$2.51billionin2012.

Includedinsuchamountsareexpensesconsideredtobeﬁnonoperatingﬂinnatureconsistingof

amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsof$34million,$47millionand$61millionin2014,

2013and2012,respectively,andmerger-relatedexpensesof$12millionin2013and$10millionin2012.

Exclusiveofthosenonoperatingexpenses,noninterestoperatingexpensesaggregated$2.71billionin2014,

$2.58billionin2013and$2.44billionin2012.Theincreaseinsuchexpensesin2014ascomparedwith2013

waslargelyattributabletohighercostsforprofessionalservicesandsalariesassociatedwithBSA/AML

activities,compliance,capitalplanningandstress-testing,andriskmanagementinitiatives,partiallyoffsetby

lowerFDICassessments.Theriseinnoninterestoperatingexpensesin2013ascomparedwith2012wasalso

largelyattributabletohighercostsforprofessionalservicesandsalaries,partiallyoffsetbylowerFDIC
72assessmentsandthereversalin2013ofa$26millionaccrualforacontingentcompensationobligation
assumedintheMay2011acquisitionofWilmingtonTrustthatexpired.Inaddition,theCompanyreacheda

legalsettlementofalawsuitrelatedtoissuesthatwereallegedtooccuratWilmingtonTrustpriortoits

acquisitionbyM&Tthatledtoa$40millionlitigation-relatedaccrualasofDecember31,2013.
Salariesandemployeebenefitsexpensein2014aggregated$1.40billion,comparedwith$1.36billion
and$1.31billionin2013and2012,respectively.Theincreaseinsuchexpensesin2014ascomparedwith

2013wasprimarilyduetocostsinvolvingtheCompany™sinitiativesrelatedtoBSA/AMLactivities,

compliance,capitalplanningandstresstesting,andriskmanagement.Theriseinsalariesandemployee

benefitsexpensein2013from2012waspredominantlyduetohighersalariesexpensesthatreflectedan

increaseintheCompany™sloanservicingcapacitytoaccommodatesub-servicingarrangementsenteredinto

during2013andcostsrelatedtotheoperationalinitiativesnotedabove.Thehigherexpensesin2014and

2013werepartiallyoffsetbylowerpension-relatedcosts.Stock-basedcompensationtotaled$65millionin

2014,$55millionin2013and$57millionin2012.Thenumberoffull-timeequivalentemployeeswas

15,312atDecember31,2014,comparedwith15,368and14,404atDecember31,2013and2012,

respectively.TheCompanyprovidespensionandotherpostretirementbenefits(includingaretirementsavings
plan)foritsemployees.Expensesrelatedtosuchbenefitstotaled$63millionin2014,$87millionin2013

and$105millionin2012.TheCompanysponsorsbothdefinedbenefitanddefinedcontributionpension

plans.Pensionbenefitexpenseforthoseplanswas$28millionin2014,$53millionin2013and$69million

in2012.Includedinthoseamountsare$22millionin2014,$21millionin2013and$17millionin2012for

adefinedcontributionpensionplanthattheCompanybeganonJanuary1,2006.Thedeclineinpension

andotherpostretirementbenefitsexpensein2014ascomparedwith2013waslargelyreflectiveofa$27

milliondecreaseinamortizationofactuariallossesaccumulatedinthedefinedbenefitpensionplans.The

declineinpensionandotherpostretirementbenefitsexpensein2013ascomparedwith2012reflectsthe

impactonthequalifieddefinedbenefitpensionplanoffavorableinvestmentreturnsandhigherbalancesof

investedassets.TheCompanymadea$200millioncontributiontothatplaninthethirdquarterof2012.

Nocontributionswererequiredormadetothequalifieddefinedbenefitpensionplanin2014or2013.The

determinationofpensionexpenseandtherecognitionofnetpensionassetsandliabilitiesfordefinedbenefit

pensionplansrequiresmanagementtomakevariousassumptionsthatcansignificantlyimpacttheactuarial

calculationsrelatedthereto.Thoseassumptionsincludetheexpectedlong-termrateofreturnonplanassets,

therateofincreaseinfuturecompensationlevelsandthediscountrate.Changesinanyofthose

assumptionswillimpacttheCompany™spensionexpense.Theexpectedlong-termrateofreturnassumption

isdeterminedbytakingintoconsiderationassetallocations,historicalreturnsonthetypesofassetsheldand

currenteconomicfactors.Returnsoninvestedassetsareperiodicallycomparedwithtargetmarketindices

foreachassettypetoaidmanagementinevaluatingsuchreturns.ThediscountrateusedbytheCompanyto

determinethepresentvalueoftheCompany™sfuturebenefitobligationsreflectsspecificmarketyieldsfora

hypotheticalportfolioofhighlyratedcorporatebondsthatwouldproducecashflowssimilartothe

Company™sbenefitplanobligationsandthelevelofmarketinterestratesingeneralasoftheyear-end.In

addition,in2014theSocietyofActuariesreleasednewmortalitytablesthatwereusedinthedetermination

ofthebenefitobligationasofDecember31,2014.Theimpactofthatrevisionwastoincreasethebenefit

obligationsofthequalifiedandnon-qualifieddefinedbenefitpensionplansbyapproximately$122million

and$10million,respectively.Otherfactorsusedtoestimatetheprojectedbenefitobligationsinclude

actuarialassumptionsforturnoverrate,retirementageanddisabilityrate.Thoseotherfactorsdonottend

tochangesignificantlyovertime.TheCompanyreviewsitspensionplanassumptionsannuallytoensure

thatsuchassumptionsarereasonableandadjuststhoseassumptions,asnecessary,toreflectchangesin

futureexpectations.TheCompanyutilizesactuariesandotherstoaidinthatassessment.
TheCompany™s2014pensionexpenseforitsdefinedbenefitplanswasdeterminedusingthe
followingassumptions:along-termrateofreturnonassetsof6.50%;arateoffuturecompensationincrease

of4.42%;andadiscountrateof4.75%.Todemonstratethesensitivityofpensionexpensetochangesinthe

Company™spensionplanassumptions,25basispointincreasesin:therateofreturnonplanassetswould

haveresultedinadecreaseinpensionexpenseof$4million;therateofincreaseincompensationwould

haveresultedinanincreaseinpensionexpenseof$300,000;andthediscountratewouldhaveresultedina

decreaseinpensionexpenseof$6million.Decreasesof25basispointsinthoseassumptionswouldhave

resultedinsimilarchangesinamount,butintheoppositedirectionfromthechangespresentedinthe

precedingsentence.Theaccountingguidancefordefinedbenefitpensionplansreflectsthelong-termnature

ofbenefitobligationsandtheinvestmenthorizonofplanassets,andhastheeffectofreducingexpense
73volatilityrelatedtoshort-termchangesininterestratesandmarketvaluations.Actuarialgainsandlosses
includetheimpactofplanamendments,inadditiontovariousgainsandlossesresultingfromchangesin

assumptionsandinvestmentreturnswhicharedifferentfromthatwhichwasassumed.AsofDecember31,

2014,theCompanyhadcumulativeunrecognizedactuariallossesofapproximately$512millionthatcould

resultinanincreaseintheCompany™sfuturepensionexpensedependingonseveralfactors,including

whethersuchlossesateachmeasurementdateexceedtenpercentofthegreateroftheprojectedbenefit

obligationorthemarket-relatedvalueofplanassets.InaccordancewithGAAP,netunrecognizedgainsor

lossesthatexceedthatthresholdarerequiredtobeamortizedovertheexpectedserviceperiodofactive

employees,andareincludedasacomponentofnetpensioncost.Amortizationofthosenetunrealizedlosses

hadtheeffectofincreasingtheCompany™spensionexpensebyapproximately$14millionin2014,$41

millionin2013and$37millionin2012.Theincreaseinthecumulativeunrecognizedactuariallossesfrom

$191millionatDecember31,2013ispredominantlyattributabletoa75basispointreductioninthe

discountrateandtherevisedmortalitytablesusedtodeterminethebenefitobligationasofDecember31,

2014.GAAPrequiresanemployertorecognizeinitsbalancesheetasanassetorliabilitytheoverfundedor
underfundedstatusofadefinedbenefitpostretirementplan,measuredasthedifferencebetweenthefair

valueofplanassetsandthebenefitobligation.Forapensionplan,thebenefitobligationistheprojected

benefitobligation;foranyotherpostretirementbenefitplan,suchasaretireehealthcareplan,thebenefit

obligationistheaccumulatedpostretirementbenefitobligation.Gainsorlossesandpriorservicecostsor

creditsthatariseduringtheperiod,butarenotincludedascomponentsofnetperiodicbenefitcost,areto

berecognizedasacomponentofothercomprehensiveincome.AsofDecember31,2014,thecombined

benefitobligationsoftheCompany™sdefinedbenefitpostretirementplansexceededthefairvalueofthe

assetsofsuchplansbyapproximately$375million.Ofthatamount,$203millionwasrelatedtothenon-

qualifiedpensionandotherpostretirementbenefitplansthataregenerallynotfundeduntilbenefitsare

paid.IntheCompany™squalifieddefinedbenefitpensionplan,theprojectedbenefitobligationexceededthe

fairvalueofassetsbyapproximately$172millionasofDecember31,2014.Attheprioryear-end,thefair

valueofthatplan™sassetsexceededtheprojectedbenefitobligationbyapproximately$140million.Relative

tothatplan,themainfactorscontributingtothechangeinthefundedstatuswerethedecreaseinthe

discountrateusedtomeasuretheprojectedbenefitobligationsto4.00%atDecember31,2014from4.75%

atDecember31,2013andtheuseofthenewlyupdatedactuarialmortalitytablesissuedbytheSocietyof

Actuariesreflectinglongerlifeexpectancyoftheplan™sparticipants.TheCompanywasrequiredtohavea

netpensionandpostretirementbenefitliabilityforthepensionandotherpostretirementbenefitplansthat

wasequalto$375millionatDecember31,2014.Accordingly,asofDecember31,2014theCompany

recordedanadditionalpostretirementbenefitadjustmentof$503million.Afterapplicabletaxeffect,that

adjustmentreducedaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome(andtherebyshareholders™equity)by$306

million.Theresultofthiswasayear-over-yearincreaseof$341milliontotheadditionalminimum

postretirementbenefitliabilityfromthe$162millionrecordedatDecember31,2013.Afterapplicabletax

effect,the$341millionincreaseintheadditionalrequiredliabilityadjustmentdecreasedother

comprehensiveincomein2014by$207millionfromtheprioryear-endamountof$98million.As

previouslynoted,thedecreaseinthediscountrateandtheuseofthenewlyupdatedmortalitytables

reflectinglongerlifeexpectancyoftheplan™sparticipantswerethepredominantfactorsleadingtothe

changeintheminimumliabilityfromDecember31,2013.Indeterminingthebenefitobligationfordefined

benefitpostretirementplanstheCompanyusedadiscountrateof4.00%atDecember31,2014and4.75%at

December31,2013.A25basispointdecreaseintheassumeddiscountrateasofDecember31,2014to

3.75%wouldhaveresultedinincreasesinthecombinedbenefitobligationsofalldefinedbenefit

postretirementplans(includingpensionandotherplans)of$73million.Underthatscenario,theminimum

postretirementliabilityadjustmentatDecember31,2014wouldhavebeen$576million,ratherthanthe

$503millionthatwasactuallyrecorded,andthecorrespondingaftertax-effectchargetoaccumulatedother

comprehensiveincomeatDecember31,2014wouldhavebeen$350million,ratherthanthe$306million

thatwasactuallyrecorded.A25basispointincreaseintheassumeddiscountrateto4.25%wouldhave

decreasedthecombinedbenefitobligationsofalldefinedbenefitpostretirementplansby$69million.Under

thislatterscenario,theaggregateminimumliabilityadjustmentatDecember31,2014wouldhavebeen$434

millionratherthanthe$503millionactuallyrecordedandthecorrespondingaftertax-effectchargeto

accumulatedothercomprehensiveincomewouldhavebeen$264millionratherthan$306million.

InformationabouttheCompany™spensionplans,includingsignificantassumptionsutilizedincompleting

actuarialcalculationsfortheplans,isincludedinnote12ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
74TheCompanyalsoprovidesaretirementsavingsplan(ﬁRSPﬂ)thatisadefinedcontributionplanin
whicheligibleemployeesoftheCompanymaydeferupto50%ofqualifiedcompensationviacontributions

totheplan.TheCompanymakesanemployermatchingcontributioninanamountequalto75%ofan

employee™scontribution,upto4.5%oftheemployee™squalifiedcompensation.RSPexpensetotaled$32

millionineachof2014and2013,and$31millionin2012.
ExpensesassociatedwiththedefinedbenefitanddefinedcontributionpensionplansandtheRSP
totaled$60millionin2014,$85millionin2013and$100millionin2012.Expensesassociatedwith

providingmedicalandotherpostretirementbenefitswere$2millionineachof2014and2013,and$5

millionin2012.
Excludingthenonoperatingexpenseitemsalreadynoted,nonpersonneloperatingexpensestotaled
$1.30billionin2014,comparedwith$1.22billionin2013.Thehigherlevelofsuchexpenseswas

predominantlytheresultofincreasedcostsforprofessionalservices,reflectingtheCompany™sinvestments

inBSA/AMLactivities,compliance,capitalplanningandstresstesting,riskmanagement,andother

operationalinitiatives.ThosehigherexpenseswerepartiallyoffsetbylowerFDICassessments.

Nonpersonneloperatingexpenseswere$1.13billionin2012.Higherexpensesin2013werelargely

associatedwiththeinitiativesnotedaboveandthepreviouslynoted$40millionincreaseinthelitigation-

relatedaccrual,partiallyoffsetbylowerFDICassessmentsandthereversalofthecontingentcompensation

accrualrelatedtoWilmingtonTrust.
IncomeTaxes
Theprovisionforincometaxeswas$523millionineachof2014and2012and$579millionin2013.The

effectivetaxrateswere32.9%in2014and33.7%ineachof2013and2012.Duringthesecondquarterof

2014,theCompanyresolvedwithtaxauthoritiespreviouslyuncertaintaxpositionsassociatedwithpre-

acquisitionactivitiesofM&T™sWilmingtonTrustentities,resultinginareductionoftheprovisionfor

incometaxesof$8million.Excludingthatreductionofincometaxexpense,theeffectivetaxratefor2014

wouldhavebeen33.4%.Theeffectivetaxrateisaffectedbythelevelofincomeearnedthatisexemptfrom

taxrelativetotheoveralllevelofpre-taxincome,thelevelofincomeallocatedtothevariousstateandlocal

jurisdictionswheretheCompanyoperates,becausetaxratesdifferamongsuchjurisdictions,andtheimpact

ofanylargebutinfrequentlyoccurringitems.
TheCompany™seffectivetaxrateinfutureperiodswillbeaffectedbytheresultsofoperations
allocatedtothevarioustaxjurisdictionswithinwhichtheCompanyoperates,anychangeinincometaxlaws

orregulationswithinthosejurisdictions,andinterpretationsofincometaxregulationsthatdifferfromthe

Company™sinterpretationsbyanyofvarioustaxauthoritiesthatmayexaminetaxreturnsfiledbyM&Tor

anyofitssubsidiaries.Informationaboutamountsaccruedforuncertaintaxpositionsandareconciliation

ofincometaxexpensetotheamountcomputedbyapplyingthestatutoryfederalincometaxratetopre-tax

incomeisprovidedinnote13ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
InternationalActivities
TheCompany™snetinvestmentininternationalassetstotaled$232millionatDecember31,2014and$226

millionatDecember31,2013.Suchassetsincluded$213millionand$192million,respectively,ofloansto

foreignborrowers.DepositsintheCompany™sofficeintheCaymanIslandstotaled$177millionat

December31,2014and$323millionatDecember31,2013.TheCompanyusessuchdepositstofacilitate

customerdemandandasanalternativetoshort-termborrowingswhenthecostsofsuchdepositsseem

reasonable.LoansanddepositsatM&TBank™scommercialbranchinOntario,CanadaasofDecember31,

2014were$93millionand$41million,respectively,comparedwith$94millionand$25million,

respectively,atDecember31,2013.TheCompanyalsoofferstrust-relatedservicesinEuropeandthe

CaymanIslands.Revenuesfromprovidingsuchservicesduring2014,2013and2012wereapproximately

$31million,$26millionand$24million,respectively.
Liquidity,MarketRisk,andInterestRateSensitivity
Asafinancialintermediary,theCompanyisexposedtovariousrisks,includingliquidityandmarketrisk.

LiquidityreferstotheCompany™sabilitytoensurethatsufficientcashflowandliquidassetsareavailableto

satisfycurrentandfutureobligations,includingdemandsforloansanddepositwithdrawals,funding

operatingcosts,andothercorporatepurposes.Liquidityriskariseswheneverthematuritiesoffinancial

instrumentsincludedinassetsandliabilitiesdiffer.
75ThemostsignificantsourceoffundingfortheCompanyiscoredeposits,whicharegeneratedfroma
largebaseofconsumer,corporateandinstitutionalcustomers.Thatcustomerbasehas,overthepastseveral

years,becomemoregeographicallydiverseasaresultofacquisitionsandexpansionoftheCompany™s

businesses.Nevertheless,theCompanyfacescompetitioninofferingproductsandservicesfromalarge

arrayoffinancialmarketparticipants,includingbanks,thrifts,mutualfunds,securitiesdealersandothers.

Coredepositsfinanced83%oftheCompany™searningassetsatDecember31,2014,comparedwith88%

and86%atDecember31,2013and2012,respectively.
TheCompanysupplementsfundingprovidedthroughcoredepositswithvariousshort-termand
long-termwholesaleborrowings,includingfederalfundspurchasedandsecuritiessoldunderagreementsto

repurchase,brokereddeposits,CaymanIslandsofficedepositsandlonger-termborrowings.At

December31,2014,M&TBankhadshort-termandlong-termcreditfacilitieswiththeFHLBsaggregating

$8.1billion.OutstandingborrowingsunderFHLBcreditfacilitiestotaled$1.2billionand$29millionat

December31,2014and2013,respectively.Suchborrowingsweresecuredbyloansandinvestment

securities.Duringthesecondquarterof2014,M&TBankborrowedapproximately$1.1billionfromthe

FHLBofNewYork.Thoseborrowingsweresplitbetweenthree-yearandfive-yeartermsatfixedratesof

interest.M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.hadavailablelinesofcreditwiththeFederalReserveBank

ofNewYorkthataggregatedapproximately$13.1billionatDecember31,2014.Theamountsofthoselines

aredependentuponthebalancesofloansandsecuritiespledgedascollateral.Therewerenoborrowings

outstandingundersuchlinesofcreditatDecember31,2014orDecember31,2013.Duringthefirstquarter

of2013,M&TBankinstitutedaBankNoteProgramwherebyM&TBankmayissueunsecuredseniorand

subordinatednotes.Notesissuedunderthatprogramaggregated$4.0billionand$800millionat

December31,2014and2013,respectively.Inaddition,inFebruary2015M&TBankissuedanadditional

$1.5billionoffixedrateseniornotes,ofwhich$750millionmaturein2020and$750millionmaturein

2025.Fromtimetotime,theCompanyhasissuedsubordinatedcapitalnotesandjuniorsubordinated
debenturesassociatedwithtrustpreferredsecuritiestoprovideliquidityandenhanceregulatorycapital

ratios.SuchnotesgenerallyqualifyundertheFederalReserveBoard™scurrentrisk-basedcapitalguidelines

forinclusionintheCompany™scapital.However,pursuanttotheDodd-FrankAct,theCompany™sjunior

subordinateddebenturesassociatedwithtrustpreferredsecuritieswillbephased-outofthedefinitionof

Tier1capital.EffectiveJanuary1,2015,75%ofsuchsecuritiesareexcludedfromtheCompany™sTier1

capital,andbeginningJanuary1,2016,100%willbeexcluded.TheamountsexcludedfromTier1capital

areincludableintotalcapital.InformationabouttheCompany™sborrowingsisincludedinnote9ofNotes

toFinancialStatements.InFebruary2014,theCompanyredeemed$350millionof8.50%junior

subordinateddebenturesassociatedwithtrustpreferredsecuritiesandissued$350millionofpreferredstock

thatqualifiesasregulatorycapital.
TheCompanyhasinformalandsometimesreciprocalsourcesoffundingavailablethroughvarious
arrangementsforunsecuredshort-termborrowingsfromawidegroupofbanksandotherfinancial

institutions.Short-termfederalfundsborrowingswere$135millionand$169millionatDecember31,2014

and2013,respectively.Ingeneral,thoseborrowingswereunsecuredandmaturedonthenextbusinessday.

Inadditiontosatisfyingcustomerdemand,CaymanIslandsofficedepositsmaybeusedbytheCompanyas

analternativetoshort-termborrowings.CaymanIslandsofficedepositstotaled$177millionand$323

millionatDecember31,2014and2013,respectively.TheCompanyhasbrokeredNOWandbrokered

money-marketdepositaccountswhichtotaled$1.1billionand$1.0billionatDecember31,2014and2013,

respectively.Brokeredtimedepositswerenotasignificantsourceoffundingasofthosedates.
TheCompany™sabilitytoobtainfundingfromtheseorothersourcescouldbenegativelyimpacted
shouldtheCompanyexperienceasubstantialdeteriorationinitsfinancialconditionoritsdebtratings,or

shouldtheavailabilityofshort-termfundingbecomerestrictedduetoadisruptioninthefinancialmarkets.

TheCompanyattemptstoquantifysuchcredit-eventriskbymodelingscenariosthatestimatetheliquidity

impactresultingfromashort-termratingsdowngradeovervariousgradinglevels.Suchimpactisestimated

byattemptingtomeasuretheeffectonavailableunsecuredlinesofcredit,availablecapacityfromsecured

borrowingsourcesandsecuritizableassets.InformationaboutthecreditratingsofM&TandM&TBankis

presentedintable16.AdditionalinformationregardingthetermsandmaturitiesofalloftheCompany™s

short-termandlong-termborrowingsisprovidedinnote9ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Inadditionto

depositsandborrowings,othersourcesofliquidityincludematuritiesofinvestmentsecuritiesandother

earningassets,repaymentsofloansandinvestmentsecurities,andcashgeneratedfromoperations,suchas

feescollectedforservices.
76Table16
DEBTRATINGS
Moody™sStandardandPoor™s
FitchM&TBankCorporation
Seniordebt
...................................................A3AŒAŒ
Subordinateddebt
.............................................Baa1BBB+BBB+
M&TBank
Short-termdeposits
............................................Prime-1A-1F1
Long-termdeposits
............................................A2AA
Seniordebt
...................................................A2AAŒ
Subordinateddebt
.............................................A3AŒ
BBB+CertaincustomersoftheCompanyobtainfinancingthroughtheissuanceofvariableratedemand
bonds(ﬁVRDBsﬂ).TheVRDBsaregenerallyenhancedbylettersofcreditprovidedbyM&TBank.M&T

BankoftentimesactsasremarketingagentfortheVRDBsand,atitsdiscretion,mayfromtime-to-timeown

someoftheVRDBswhilesuchinstrumentsareremarketed.Whenthisoccurs,theVRDBsareclassifiedas

tradingaccountassetsintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheet.Nevertheless,M&TBankisnot

contractuallyobligatedtopurchasetheVRDBs.TherewerenoVRDBsintheCompany™stradingaccountat

December31,2014,whilethevalueofVRDBsintheCompany™stradingaccountatDecember31,2013

totaled$25million.ThetotalamountofVRDBsoutstandingbackedbyM&TBanklettersofcreditwas$2.0

billionand$1.7billionatDecember31,2014and2013,respectively.M&TBankalsoservesasremarketing

agentformostofthosebonds.
Table17
MATURITYDISTRIBUTIONOFSELECTEDLOANS(a)
December31,2014
Demand20152016-2019After2019
(Inthousands)
Commercial,financial,etc.
....................$6,811,488$2,876,207$7,528,436$890,316
RealestateŠconstruction
....................337,7722,132,4852,180,564311,342
Total....................................$7,149,260$5,008,692$9,709,000$1,201,658
Floatingoradjustableinterestrates
..............$8,166,968$853,349
Fixedorpredeterminedinterestrates
............1,542,032348,309
Total....................................$9,709,000$1,201,658
(a)Thedatadonotincludenonaccrualloans.
TheCompanyentersintocontractualobligationsinthenormalcourseofbusinesswhichrequire
futurecashpayments.ThecontractualamountsandtimingofthosepaymentsasofDecember31,2014are

summarizedintable18.Off-balancesheetcommitmentstocustomersmayimpactliquidity,including

commitmentstoextendcredit,standbylettersofcredit,commerciallettersofcredit,financialguarantees

andindemnificationcontracts,andcommitmentstosellrealestateloans.Becausemanyofthese

commitmentsorcontractsexpirewithoutbeingfundedinwholeorinpart,thecontractamountsarenot

necessarilyindicativeoffuturecashflows.Furtherdiscussionofthesecommitmentsisprovidedinnote21

ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Table18summarizestheCompany™sothercommitmentsasof

December31,2014andthetimingoftheexpirationofsuchcommitments.
77Table18
CONTRACTUALOBLIGATIONSANDOTHERCOMMITMENTS
December31,2014
LessThanOne
YearOnetoThree
YearsThreetoFive
YearsOverFive
YearsTotal(Inthousands)
Paymentsdueforcontractual
obligationsTimedeposits
...............$
2,111,652$590,235$355,277$6,809$3,063,973
DepositsatCaymanIslands
office....................176,582ŠŠŠ176,582
Federalfundspurchasedand
agreementstorepurchase

securities.................192,676ŠŠŠ192,676
Long-termborrowings
........6,4444,513,3262,695,3581,791,8319,006,959
Operatingleases
.............87,063153,423101,103113,390454,979
Other......................47,05038,73714,33649,637149,760
Total......................$
2,621,467$5,295,721$3,166,074$1,961,667$13,044,929
Othercommitments
Commitmentstoextend
credit....................$
9,428,384$5,767,919$4,574,826$3,507,950$23,279,079
Standbylettersofcredit
.......1,811,0471,162,503594,375138,9633,706,888
Commerciallettersofcredit
....12,81215234,001Š46,965
Financialguaranteesand
indemnificationcontracts...113,729249,776502,4911,624,0542,490,050
Commitmentstosellrealestate
loans....................1,221,59015,704ŠŠ1,237,294
Total......................$12,587,562$7,196,054$5,705,693$5,270,967$30,760,276
M&T™sprimarysourceoffundstopayforoperatingexpenses,shareholderdividendsandtreasury
stockrepurchaseshashistoricallybeenthereceiptofdividendsfromitsbankingsubsidiaries,whichare

subjecttovariousregulatorylimitations.DividendsfromanybankingsubsidiarytoM&Tarelimitedbythe

amountofearningsofthebankingsubsidiaryinthecurrentyearandthetwoprecedingyears.Forpurposes

ofthattest,atDecember31,2014approximately$1.5billionwasavailableforpaymentofdividendstoM&T

frombankingsubsidiaries.Thesehistoricsourcesofcashflowhavebeenaugmentedinthepastbythe

issuanceoftrustpreferredsecuritiesandseniornotespayable.Informationregardingtrustpreferred

securitiesandtherelatedjuniorsubordinateddebenturesisincludedinnote9ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.78Table19
MATURITYANDTAXABLE-EQUIVALENTYIELDOFINVESTMENTSECURITIES
December31,2014
OneYear
orLess
OnetoFive
YearsFivetoTen
YearsOverTen
YearsTotal(Dollarsinthousands)
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale(a)

U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
Carryingvalue
.......................................$
4,887$157,060$Š$Š$161,947
Yield...............................................1.34%1.20%ŠŠ1.20%
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
Carryingvalue
.......................................366
2,9322,3922,5088,198
Yield...............................................7.03%7.09%2.49%3.95%4.78%
Mortgage-backedsecurities(b)
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
Carryingvalue
.....................................414,4951,764,4502,466,1324,086,0468,731,123
Yield.............................................2.75%2.75%2.75%2.73%2.74%
Privatelyissued
Carryingvalue
.....................................3469ŠŠ103
Yield.............................................3.12%4.44%ŠŠ4.00%
Otherdebtsecurities
Carryingvalue
.......................................2,2155,3481,185163,056171,804
Yield...............................................1.92%3.52%4.28%7.12%6.92%
Equitysecurities
Carryingvalue
.......................................ŠŠŠŠ
83,757Yield...............................................ŠŠŠŠ
.45%Totalinvestmentsecuritiesavailableforsale
Carryingvalue
.......................................421,9971,929,8592,469,7094,251,6109,156,932
Yield...............................................2.73%2.63%2.75%2.90%2.77%
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
Carryingvalue
.......................................23,10784,11241,742Š148,961
Yield...............................................3.71%5.15%5.88%Š5.13%
Mortgage-backedsecurities(b)
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
.......................Carryingvalue
.....................................99,700437,594626,8781,985,1483,149,320
Yield.............................................2.79%2.79%2.80%2.77%2.78%
Privatelyissued
Carryingvalue
.....................................6,71027,57536,531130,917201,733
Yield.............................................2.46%2.48%2.52%2.72%2.64%
Otherdebtsecurities
Carryingvalue
.......................................ŠŠŠ
7,8547,854
Yield...............................................ŠŠŠ
4.52%4.52%
Totalinvestmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity
Carryingvalue
.......................................129,517549,281705,1512,123,9193,507,868
Yield...............................................2.94%3.14%2.96%2.77%2.87%
Otherinvestmentsecurities
...............................ŠŠŠŠ
328,742Totalinvestmentsecurities
Carryingvalue
.......................................$551,514$2,479,140$3,174,860$6,375,529$12,993,542
Yield...............................................2.78%2.74%2.80%2.86%2.73%
(a)Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsalearepresentedatestimatedfairvalue.Yieldsonsuchsecuritiesarebasedon
amortizedcost.
(b)Maturitiesarereflectedbaseduponcontractualpaymentsdue.Actualmaturitiesareexpectedtobesignificantly
shorterasaresultofloanrepaymentsintheunderlyingmortgagepools.
79Table20
MATURITYOFDOMESTICCERTIFICATESOFDEPOSITANDTIMEDEPOSITS
WITHBALANCESOF$100,000ORMORE
December31,2014
(Inthousands)
Under3months
.............................................................$188,8703to6months
...............................................................157,8956to12months
..............................................................184,801Over12months
.............................................................346,844Total....................................................................$878,410ManagementcloselymonitorstheCompany™sliquiditypositiononanongoingbasisforcompliance
withinternalpoliciesandbelievesthatavailablesourcesofliquidityareadequatetomeetfundingneeds

anticipatedinthenormalcourseofbusiness.Managementdoesnotanticipateengaginginanyactivities,

eithercurrentlyorinthelong-term,forwhichadequatefundingwouldnotbeavailableandwouldtherefore

resultinasignificantstrainonliquidityateitherM&Toritssubsidiarybanks.Bankingregulatorshave

finalizedrulesrequiringabankingcompanytomaintainaminimumamountofliquidassetstowithstanda

standardizedsupervisoryliquidationstressscenario.TheeffectivedateforthoserulesfortheCompanyis

January1,2016,subjecttoatwo-yearphase-inperiod.TheCompanyhastakenstepsasnotedhereinto

enhanceitsliquidityandwilltakefurtheraction,asnecessary,tocomplywiththeregulationswhentheytake

effect.Marketriskistheriskoflossfromadversechangesinthemarketpricesand/orinterestratesofthe
Company™sfinancialinstruments.TheprimarymarketrisktheCompanyisexposedtoisinterestraterisk.

InterestrateriskarisesfromtheCompany™scorebankingactivitiesoflendinganddeposit-taking,because

assetsandliabilitiesrepriceatdifferenttimesandbydifferentamountsasinterestrateschange.Asaresult,

netinterestincomeearnedbytheCompanyissubjecttotheeffectsofchanginginterestrates.TheCompany

measuresinterestrateriskbycalculatingthevariabilityofnetinterestincomeinfutureperiodsunder

variousinterestratescenariosusingprojectedbalancesforearningassets,interest-bearingliabilitiesand

derivativesusedtohedgeinterestraterisk.Management™sphilosophytowardinterestrateriskmanagement

istolimitthevariabilityofnetinterestincome.Thebalancesoffinancialinstrumentsusedintheprojections

arebasedonexpectedgrowthfromforecastedbusinessopportunities,anticipatedprepaymentsofloansand

investmentsecurities,andexpectedmaturitiesofinvestmentsecurities,loansanddeposits.Management

usesaﬁvalueofequityﬂmodeltosupplementthemodelingtechniquedescribedabove.Thosesupplemental

analysesarebasedondiscountedcashflowsassociatedwithon-andoff-balancesheetfinancialinstruments.

Suchanalysesaremodeledtoreflectchangesininterestratesandprovidemanagementwithalong-term

interestrateriskmetric.TheCompanyhasenteredintointerestrateswapagreementstohelpmanage

exposuretointerestraterisk.AtDecember31,2014,theaggregatenotionalamountofinterestrateswap

agreementsenteredintoforinterestrateriskmanagementpurposeswas$1.4billion.Informationabout

interestrateswapagreementsenteredintoforinterestrateriskmanagementpurposesisincludedherein

undertheheadingﬁNetInterestIncome/LendingandFundingActivitiesﬂandinnote18ofNotesto

FinancialStatements.
TheCompany™sAsset-LiabilityCommittee,whichincludesmembersofseniormanagement,
monitorsthesensitivityoftheCompany™snetinterestincometochangesininterestrateswiththeaidofa

computermodelthatforecastsnetinterestincomeunderdifferentinterestratescenarios.Inmodeling

changinginterestrates,theCompanyconsidersdifferentyieldcurveshapesthatconsiderbothparallel(that

is,simultaneouschangesininterestratesateachpointontheyieldcurve)andnon-parallel(thatis,allowing

interestratesatpointsontheyieldcurvetovarybydifferentamounts)shiftsintheyieldcurve.Inutilizing

themodel,projectionsofnetinterestincomecalculatedunderthevaryinginterestratescenariosare

comparedtoabaseinterestratescenariothatisreflectiveofcurrentinterestrates.Themodelconsidersthe

impactofongoinglendinganddeposit-gatheringactivities,aswellasinterrelationshipsinthemagnitude

andtimingoftherepricingoffinancialinstruments,includingtheeffectofchanginginterestrateson

expectedprepaymentsandmaturities.Whendeemedprudent,managementhastakenactionstomitigate

exposuretointerestrateriskthroughtheuseofon-oroff-balancesheetfinancialinstrumentsandintends
80todosointhefuture.Possibleactionsinclude,butarenotlimitedto,changesinthepricingofloanand
depositproducts,modifyingthecompositionofearningassetsandinterest-bearingliabilities,andaddingto,

modifyingorterminatingexistinginterestrateswapagreementsorotherfinancialinstrumentsusedfor

interestrateriskmanagementpurposes.
Table21displaysasofDecember31,2014and2013theestimatedimpactonnetinterestincome
fromnon-tradingfinancialinstrumentsinthebasescenarioresultingfromparallelchangesininterestrates

acrossrepricingcategoriesduringthefirstmodelingyear.
Table21
SENSITIVITYOFNETINTERESTINCOMETOCHANGESININTERESTRATES
CalculatedIncrease
(Decrease)inProjected
NetInterestIncome
December31
ChangesinInterestRates
20142013(Inthousands)
+200basispoints
.....................................................$
246,028$245,089
+100basispoints
.....................................................134,393134,188
Œ100basispoints
.....................................................(74,634)(72,755)
Œ200basispoints
.....................................................(109,261)(100,543)
TheCompanyutilizedmanyassumptionstocalculatetheimpactthatchangesininterestratesmay
haveonnetinterestincome.Themoresignificantofthoseassumptionsincludedtherateofprepaymentsof

mortgage-relatedassets,cashflowsfromderivativeandotherfinancialinstrumentsheldfornon-trading

purposes,loananddepositvolumesandpricing,anddepositmaturities.Inthescenariospresented,the

Companyalsoassumedgradualchangesinratesduringatwelve-monthperiodof100and200basispoints,

ascomparedwiththeassumedbasescenario.Intheeventthata100or200basispointratechangecannot

beachieved,theapplicableratechangesarelimitedtolesseramountssuchthatinterestratescannotbeless

thanzero.Theassumptionsusedininterestratesensitivitymodelingareinherentlyuncertainand,asa

result,theCompanycannotpreciselypredicttheimpactofchangesininterestratesonnetinterestincome.

Actualresultsmaydiffersignificantlyfromthosepresentedduetothetiming,magnitudeandfrequencyof

changesininterestratesandchangesinmarketconditionsandinterestratedifferentials(spreads)between

maturity/repricingcategories,aswellasanyactions,suchasthosepreviouslydescribed,whichmanagement

maytaketocountersuchchanges.
Table22presentscumulativetotalsofnetassets(liabilities)repricingonacontractualbasiswithin
thespecifiedtimeframes,asadjustedfortheimpactofinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintofor

interestrateriskmanagementpurposes.Managementbelievesthatthismeasuredoesnotappropriately

depictinterestraterisksincechangesininterestratesdonotnecessarilyaffectallcategoriesofearningassets

andinterest-bearingliabilitiesequallynor,asassumedinthetable,onthecontractualmaturityorrepricing

date.Furthermore,thisstaticpresentationofinterestrateriskfailstoconsidertheeffectofongoinglending

anddepositgatheringactivities,projectedchangesinbalancesheetcompositionoranysubsequentinterest

rateriskmanagementactivitiestheCompanyislikelytoimplement.
81Table22
CONTRACTUALREPRICINGDATA
December31,2014
ThreeMonths
orLess
FourtoTwelve
MonthsOneto
FiveYears
AfterFiveYears
Total(Dollarsinthousands)
Loansandleases,net
...........$42,431,506$4,090,188$10,705,851$9,441,411$66,668,956
Investmentsecurities
...........498,480428,6762,666,2099,400,17712,993,542
Otherearningassets
............6,615,008700ŠŠ6,615,708
Totalearningassets
...........49,544,9944,519,56413,372,06018,841,58886,278,206
NOWaccounts
................2,307,815ŠŠŠ2,307,815
Savingsdeposits
...............41,085,803ŠŠŠ41,085,803
Timedeposits
.................668,7351,442,917945,5126,8093,063,973
DepositsatCaymanIslands
office......................167,5109,072ŠŠ176,582
Totalinterest-bearingdeposits
..44,229,8631,451,989945,5126,80946,634,173
Short-termborrowings
.........192,676ŠŠŠ192,676
Long-termborrowings
..........1,404,831405,4026,323,819872,9079,006,959
Totalinterest-bearing
liabilities.................45,827,3701,857,3917,269,331879,71655,833,808
Interestrateswapagreements
....(1,400,000)Š1,400,000ŠŠ
Periodicgap
..................$2,
317,624$2,662,173$7,502,729$17,961,872
Cumulativegap
...............2,317,6244,979,79712,482,52630,444,398
Cumulativegapasa%oftotal
earningassets
...............2.7%5.8%14.5%35.3%
ChangesinfairvalueoftheCompany™sfinancialinstrumentscanalsoresultfromalackoftrading
activityforsimilarinstrumentsinthefinancialmarkets.Thatimpactismostnotableonthevaluesassigned

tosomeoftheCompany™sinvestmentsecurities.Informationaboutthefairvaluationofinvestment

securitiesispresentedhereinundertheheadingﬁCapitalﬂandinnotes3and20ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.TheCompanyengagesintradingaccountactivitiestomeetthefinancialneedsofcustomersandto
fundtheCompany™sobligationsundercertaindeferredcompensationplans.Financialinstrumentsutilized

intradingaccountactivitiesconsistpredominantlyofinterestratecontracts,suchasswapagreements,and

forwardandfuturescontractsrelatedtoforeigncurrencies.TheCompanygenerallymitigatestheforeign

currencyandinterestrateriskassociatedwithtradingaccountactivitiesbyenteringintooffsettingtrading

positionsthatarealsoincludedinthetradingaccount.Thefairvaluesoftheoffsettingpositionsassociated

withinterestratecontractsandforeigncurrencyandotheroptionandfuturescontractsarepresentedin

note18ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Theamountsofgrossandnetpositions,aswellasthetypeof

tradingaccountactivitiesconductedbytheCompany,aresubjecttoawell-definedseriesofpotentialloss

exposurelimitsestablishedbymanagementandapprovedbyM&T™sBoardofDirectors.However,aswith

anynon-governmentguaranteedfinancialinstrument,theCompanyisexposedtocreditriskassociated

withcounterpartiestotheCompany™stradingaccountactivities.
Thenotionalamountsofinterestratecontractsenteredintofortradingaccountpurposestotaled
$17.6billionatDecember31,2014and$17.4billionatDecember31,2013.Thenotionalamountsofforeign

currencyandotheroptionandfuturescontractsenteredintofortradingaccountpurposeswere$1.3billion

and$1.4billionatDecember31,2014and2013,respectively.Althoughthenotionalamountsofthese

contractsarenotrecordedintheconsolidatedbalancesheet,thefairvaluesofallfinancialinstrumentsused

fortradingaccountactivitiesarerecordedintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Thefairvaluesofalltrading

accountassetsandliabilitieswere$308millionand$203million,respectively,atDecember31,2014and
82$376millionand$250million,respectively,atDecember31,2013.Includedintradingaccountassetsat
December31,2014and2013were$27millionand$29million,respectively,ofassetsrelatedtodeferred

compensationplans.Changesinthefairvalueofsuchassetsarerecordedasﬁtradingaccountandforeign

exchangegainsﬂintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.Includedinﬁotherliabilitiesﬂintheconsolidated

balancesheetatDecember31,2014and2013were$30millionand$31million,respectively,ofliabilities

relatedtodeferredcompensationplans.Changesinthebalancesofsuchliabilitiesduetothevaluationof

allocatedinvestmentoptionstowhichtheliabilitiesareindexedarerecordedinﬁothercostsofoperationsﬂ

intheconsolidatedstatementofincome.
GiventheCompany™spolicies,limitsandpositions,managementbelievesthatthepotentialloss
exposuretotheCompanyresultingfrommarketriskassociatedwithtradingaccountactivitieswasnot

material,however,aspreviouslynoted,theCompanyisexposedtocreditriskassociatedwithcounterparties

totransactionsrelatedtotheCompany™stradingaccountactivities.Additionalinformationaboutthe

Company™suseofderivativefinancialinstrumentsinitstradingaccountactivitiesisincludedinnote18of

NotestoFinancialStatements.
CapitalShareholders™equitywas$12.3billionatDecember31,
2014andrepresented12.76%oftotalassets,compared
with$11.3billionor13.28%atDecember31,2013and$10.2billionor12.29%atDecember31,2012.
Includedinshareholders™equitywaspreferredstockwithfinancialstatementcarryingvaluesof$1.2
billionatDecember31,2014and$882millionatDecember31,2013.OnFebruary11,2014,M&Tissued

350,000sharesofSeriesEPerpetualFixed-to-FloatingRateNon-cumulativePreferredStock,parvalue$1.00

pershareandliquidationpreferenceof$1,000pershare.Dividends,ifdeclared,willbepaidsemi-annually

atarateof6.45%throughFebruary14,2024andthereafterwillbepaidquarterlyatarateofthethree-

monthLondonInterbankOfferedRateplus361basispoints.Thesharesareredeemableinwholeorinpart

onorafterFebruary15,2024.NotwithstandingM&T™soptiontoredeemtheshares,ifaneventoccurssuch

thatthesharesnolongerqualifyasTier1regulatorycapital,M&Tmayredeemalloftheshareswithin90

daysfollowingthatoccurrence.FurtherinformationconcerningM&T™spreferredstockcanbefoundin

note10ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Commonshareholders™equitywas$11.1billion,or$83.88pershare,atDecember31,2014,
comparedwith$10.4billion,or$79.81pershare,atDecember31,2013and$9.3billion,or$72.73pershare,

atDecember31,2012.Tangibleequitypercommonshare,whichexcludesgoodwillandcoredepositand

otherintangibleassetsandapplicabledeferredtaxbalances,was$57.06atDecember31,2014,compared

with$52.45and$44.61atDecember31,2013and2012,respectively.TheCompany™sratiooftangible

commonequitytotangibleassetswas8.11%atDecember31,2014,comparedwith8.39%and7.20%at

December31,2013and2012,respectively.Reconciliationsoftotalcommonshareholders™equityand

tangiblecommonequityandtotalassetsandtangibleassetsasofDecember31,2014,2013and2012are

presentedintable2.During2014,2013and2012,theratioofaveragetotalshareholders™equitytoaverage

totalassetswas13.13%,12.82%and12.13%,respectively.Theratioofaveragecommonshareholders™equity

toaveragetotalassetswas11.83%,11.77%and11.04%in2014,2013and2012,respectively.
Shareholders™equityreflectsaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincomeorloss,whichincludesthe
netafter-taximpactofunrealizedgainsorlossesoninvestmentsecuritiesclassifiedasavailableforsale,

unrealizedlossesonheld-to-maturitysecuritiesforwhichanother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargehas

beenrecognized,gainsorlossesassociatedwithinterestrateswapagreementsdesignatedascashflow

hedges,foreigncurrencytranslationadjustmentsandadjustmentstoreflectthefundedstatusofdefined

benefitpensionandotherpostretirementplans.Netunrealizedgainsoninvestmentsecurities,netof

applicabletaxeffect,were$127millionor$.96percommonshareatDecember31,2014,comparedwith$34

millionor$.26percommonshareatDecember31,2013and$37millionor$.29percommonshareat

December31,2012.InformationaboutunrealizedgainsandlossesasofDecember31,2014and2013is

includedinnote3ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
ReflectedinnetunrealizedgainsatDecember31,2014werepre-taxeffectunrealizedlossesof$21
milliononavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritieswithanamortizedcostof$191millionandpre-taxeffect

unrealizedgainsof$259milliononsecuritieswithanamortizedcostof$8.7billion.Thepre-taxeffect

unrealizedlossesreflect$19millionoflossesontrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutions

havinganamortizedcostof$125millionandanestimatedfairvalueof$106million(generallyconsidered

Level2valuations).FurtherinformationconcerningtheCompany™svaluationsofavailable-for-sale

investmentsecuritiesisprovidedinnote20ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
83Inthesecondquarterof2013,theCompanysoldsubstantiallyallofitsprivatelyissuedresidential
mortgage-backedsecuritiesthatwereclassifiedasavailableforsaleandrecordedapre-taxlossof$46

million.Thoseprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiespreviouslyheldbytheCompanyweregenerally

collateralizedbyprimeandAlt-Aresidentialmortgageloans.Thesales,whichwereinresponsetochanging

regulatorycapitalandliquiditystandards,resultedinimprovedliquidityandregulatorycapitalratiosforthe

Company.Furtherinformationonthesalesisprovidedinnote3ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
TheCompanyassessesimpairmentlossesonprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesintheheld-
to-maturityportfoliobyperforminginternalmodelingtoestimatebond-specificcashflowsconsidering

recentperformanceofthemortgageloancollateralandutilizingassumptionsaboutfuturedefaultsandloss

severity.Thesebondspecificcashflowsalsoreflecttheplacementofthebondintheoverallsecuritization

structureandtheremainingsubordinationlevels.Intotal,atDecember31,2014and2013,theCompany

hadinitsheld-to-maturityportfolioprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritieswithanamortizedcost

basisof$202millionand$220million,respectively,andafairvalueof$158millionand$159million,

respectively.AtDecember31,2014,87%ofthemortgage-backedsecuritieswereinthemostseniortranche

ofthesecuritizationstructurewith31%beingindependentlyratedasinvestmentgrade.Themortgage-

backedsecuritiesaregenerallycollateralizedbyresidentialandsmall-balancecommercialrealestateloans

originatedbetween2004and2008andhadaweighted-averagecreditenhancementof17%atDecember31,

2014,calculatedbydividingtheremainingunpaidprincipalbalanceofbondssubordinatetothebonds

ownedbytheCompanyplusanyovercollateralizationremaininginthesecuritizationstructurebythe

remainingunpaidprincipalbalanceofallbondsinthesecuritizationstructure.Allmortgage-backed

securitiesintheheld-to-maturityportfoliohadacurrentpaymentstatusasofDecember31,2014.The

weighted-averagedefaultpercentageandlossseverityassumptionsutilizedintheCompany™sinternal

modelingwere34%and74%,respectively.TheCompanyhasconcludedthatasofDecember31,2014,its

privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritieswerenotother-than-temporarilyimpaired.Nevertheless,itis

possiblethatadversechangesinthefutureperformanceofmortgageloancollateralunderlyingsuch

securitiescouldimpacttheCompany™sconclusions.
Duringthefirstquarterof2013,theCompanyrecognized$10million(pre-tax)ofother-than-
temporaryimpairmentlossesrelatedtoprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesheldintheavailable-for-

saleportfolio.Inassessingimpairmentlossesfordebtsecurities,theCompanyperformedinternalmodeling

toestimatebond-specificcashflows,whichconsideredtheplacementofthebondintheoverall

securitizationstructureandtheremaininglevelsofsubordination.During2012,theCompanyrecognized

$48million(pre-tax),ofother-than-temporarylossesrelatedtoprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities.
AsofDecember31,2014,basedonareviewofeachoftheremainingsecuritiesintheinvestment
securitiesportfolio,theCompanyconcludedthatthedeclinesinthevaluesofanysecuritiescontainingan

unrealizedlossweretemporaryandthatanyadditionalother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargeswerenot

appropriate.ItislikelythattheCompanywillberequiredtosellcertainofitscollateralizeddebtobligations

backedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesheldintheavailable-for-saleportfoliotocomplywiththeprovisionsof

theVolckerRule.However,theamortizedcostandfairvalueofthosecollateralizeddebtobligationswere

$25millionand$32million,respectively,atDecember31,2014andtheCompanydidnotexpectthatit

wouldrealizeanymateriallossesifitultimatelywasrequiredtosellsuchsecurities.Asofthatdate,the

Companydidnotintendtosellnorisitanticipatedthatitwouldberequiredtosellanyofitsotherimpaired

securities,thatis,wherefairvalueislessthanthecostbasisofthesecurity.TheCompanyintendsto

continuetocloselymonitortheperformanceofitssecuritiesbecausechangesintheirunderlyingcredit

performanceorothereventscouldcausethecostbasisofthosesecuritiestobecomeother-than-temporarily

impaired.However,becausetheunrealizedlossesonavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritieshavegenerally

alreadybeenreflectedinthefinancialstatementvaluesforinvestmentsecuritiesandshareholders™equity,

anyrecognitionofanother-than-temporarydeclineinvalueofthoseinvestmentsecuritieswouldnothavea

materialeffectontheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialcondition.Anyother-than-temporaryimpairment

chargerelatedtoheld-to-maturitysecuritieswouldresultinreductionsinthefinancialstatementvaluesfor

investmentsecuritiesandshareholders™equity.Additionalinformationconcerningfairvaluemeasurements

andtheCompany™sapproachtotheclassificationofsuchmeasurementsisincludedinnote20oftheNotes

toFinancialStatements.
Adjustmentstoreflectthefundedstatusofdefinedbenefitpensionandotherpostretirementplans,
netofapplicabletaxeffect,reducedaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincomeby$306million,or$2.31per

commonshare,atDecember31,2014,$98million,or$.75percommonshare,atDecember31,2013,and

$277million,or$2.16percommonshare,atDecember31,2012.Theincreaseinsuchadjustmentat
84December31,2014ascomparedwithDecember31,2013wastheresultoftwomainfactors:a75basispoint
decreaseinthediscountrateusedtomeasurethebenefitobligationsofthedefinedbenefitplansat

December31,2014ascomparedwithayearearlierandtheuseofupdatedmortalitytablesfortheU.S.

publishedin2014bytheSocietyofActuaries.ThedecreaseintheadjustmentatDecember31,2013as

comparedwithDecember31,2012waspredominantlytheresultofa100basispointincreaseinthe

discountrateusedtomeasurethebenefitobligationsofthedefinedbenefitplansatDecember31,2013as

comparedwithayearearlierandactualinvestmentreturnsinthequalifieddefinedbenefitpensionplanthat

werehigherthanexpectedreturns.InformationaboutthefundedstatusoftheCompany™spensionand

otherpostretirementbenefitplansisincludedinnote12ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
CashdividendsdeclaredonM&T™scommonstocktotaled$371millionin2014,comparedwith$365
millionand$358millionin2013and2012,respectively.Dividendspercommonsharetotaled$2.80ineach

of2014,2013and2012.Dividendsof$76millionin2014and$53millionineachof2013and2012were

declaredonpreferredstockinaccordancewiththetermsofeachseries.TheCompanydidnotrepurchase

anysharesofitscommonstockin2014,2013or2012.
TheregulatorycapitalrequirementsapplicabletoM&TanditsbanksubsidiariesasofDecember31,
2014arepresentedinnote23ofNotestoFinancialStatements.AtDecember31,2014,Tier1capital,as

definedintheregulations,includedtrustpreferredsecuritiesofapproximately$800millionasdescribedin

note9ofNotestoFinancialStatementsandtotalcapitalfurtherincludedsubordinatedcapitalnotesof$1.2

billion.PursuanttotheDodd-FrankAct,trustpreferredsecuritieswillbephased-outofthedefinitionof

Tier1capitalofbankholdingcompanies,suchthat25%ofthesecuritieswillbeincludableinTier1capital

in2015and,beginningin2016,noamountofthesecuritieswillbeincludable.OnFebruary27,2014,M&T

redeemed$350millionofEnhancedTrustPreferredSecuritiesandtheassociatedjuniorsubordinated

debentures.Inaddition,onNovember1,2014M&TBankredeemed$50millionof9.50%subordinated

notesthatwereduetomaturein2018.ThecapitalratiosoftheCompanyanditsbankingsubsidiariesasof

December31,2014and2013arepresentedinnote23ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
EffectiveJanuary1,2015,newregulatorycapitalrulesbecameeffective.Thenewrulessubstantially
revisetherisk-basedcapitalrequirementsapplicabletobankholdingcompaniesandbanks.M&Tandits

subsidiarybanksexpecttobeabletocomplywiththerevisedcapitaladequacyrequirements.Adetailed

discussionofthenewregulatorycapitalrulesisincludedinPartI,Item1ofthisForm10-Kunderthe

headingﬁCapitalRequirements.ﬂ
FourthQuarterResults
Netincomeduringthefourthquarterof2014was$278million,upfrom$221millionintheyear-earlier

quarter.Dilutedandbasicearningspercommonsharewere$1.92and$1.93,respectively,inthefinal

quarterof2014,comparedwith$1.56and$1.57ofdilutedandbasicearningspercommonshare,

respectively,inthesimilarquarterof2013.Theannualizedratesofreturnonaverageassetsandaverage

commonshareholders™equityforthefinal2014quarterwere1.12%and9.10%,respectively,comparedwith

1.03%and7.99%,respectively,intheyear-earlierquarter.
Netoperatingincometotaled$282millioninthefourthquarterof2014,comparedwith$228
millionin2013™sfinalquarter.Dilutednetoperatingearningspercommonsharewere$1.95and$1.61in

thefourthquartersof2014and2013,respectively.Theannualizednetoperatingreturnsonaveragetangible

assetsandaveragetangiblecommonequityinthefourthquarterof2014were1.18%and13.55%,

respectively,comparedwith1.11%and12.67%,respectively,inthecorrespondingquarterof2013.Core

depositandotherintangibleassetamortization,aftertaxeffect,totaled$4millionand$6millioninthefinal

quartersof2014and2013($.03and$.05perdilutedcommonshare),respectively.ReconciliationsofGAAP

resultswithnon-GAAPresultsforthequarterlyperiodsof2014and2013areprovidedintable24.
Netinterestincomeonataxable-equivalentbasistotaled$688millioninthefinal2014quarter,up
2%from$673millionintheyear-earlierquarter.Growthinaverageearningassetsof$12.9billionwas

partiallyoffsetbya46basispointnarrowingofthenetinterestmarginto3.10%intherecentquarterfrom

3.56%in2013™sfourthquarter.Theriseinaverageearningassetswasattributabletoa$6.1billionincrease

inaverageinterest-bearingdepositsheldattheFederalReserveBankofNewYork,higheraverage

investmentsecuritiesbalancesof$4.6billion,anda$2.2billionincreaseinaverageloansandleases.The

increaseintheinvestmentsecuritiesportfoliofromtheyear-earlierquarterreflectstheimpactofpurchases

ofFannieMaeandGinnieMaeresidentialmortgage-backedsecurities,partiallyoffsetbymaturitiesand

paydownsofmortgage-backedsecurities.Averagecommercialloanandleasebalanceswere$19.1billionin

therecentquarter,up$1.0billionor6%from$18.1billioninthefinalquarterof2013.Commercialreal
85estateloansaveraged$27.1billioninthefourthquarterof2014,up$833millionor3%from$26.2billionin
theyear-earlierquarter.Thegrowthincommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloansreflectshigher

loandemandbycustomers.Averageresidentialrealestateloansoutstandingdeclined$336millionto$8.7

billionintherecentquarterfrom$9.0billioninthefourthquarterof2013.Includedintheresidentialreal

estateloanportfoliowereaveragebalancesofloansheldforsale,whichtotaled$435millionintherecent

quarter,comparedwith$463millioninthefourthquarterof2013.Consumerloansaveraged$10.9billion

intherecentquarter,up$700millionfrom$10.2billioninthefourthquarterof2013.Thatincreasewas

largelyduetohigheraveragebalancesofautomobileloans.TotalloansatDecember31,2014increased$1.1

billionto$66.7billionfrom$65.6billionatSeptember30,2014.Thatgrowthwaspredominantly

attributabletoincreasesincommercialrealestateloansandincommercialloans,duelargelytoseasonally-

higherautomobiledealerfloorplanbalances.Thedeclineinthenetinterestmarginfromthefinal2013

quarterreflectsa16basispointdecreaseintheyieldonloans,a50basispointdeclineintheyieldon

investmentsecuritiesandtheimpactofhigherbalancesofinterest-bearingdepositsattheFederalReserve

BankofNewYorkandinvestmentsecuritieswhichhaveloweryieldsthanloans.Theyieldonearningassets

inthefourthquarterof2014was3.44%,a48basispointdeclinefromtheyear-earlierquarter.Theratepaid

oninterest-bearingliabilitiesdeclined4basispointsto.52%intherecentquarterfrom.56%inthefourth

quarterof2013.Theresultingnetinterestspreadwas2.92%inthefinalquarterof2014,44basispoints

lowerthan3.36%intheyear-earlierquarter.Thatcompressionwaslargelyduetothechangedmixin

earningassetsalreadynotedandthe16basispointdeclineinloanyields.Thecontributionofnetinterest-

freefundstotheCompany™snetinterestmarginwas.18%intherecentquarter,comparedwith.20%inthe

year-earlierquarter.Asaresult,theCompany™snetinterestmarginnarrowedto3.10%inthefourthquarter

of2014from3.56%inthesimilar2013period.
Theprovisionforcreditlosseswas$33millionduringthefinal2014quarter,comparedwith$42
millionintheyear-earlierperiod.Netcharge-offsofloanstotaled$32millioninthefourthquarterof2014,

representinganannualized.19%ofaverageloansandleasesoutstanding,comparedwith$42millionor

.26%duringthefourthquarterof2013.Netcharge-offsincluded:commercialloansof$9millionand$21

millionin2014and2013,respectively;commercialrealestateloansoflessthan$1millionin2014,

comparedwith$8millionayearearlier;residentialrealestateloansof$3millionineachofthefourth

quartersof2014and2013;andconsumerloansof$19millionintherecentquarter,comparedwith$10

millioninthe2013™sfourthquarter.Reflectedinnetcharge-offsofconsumerloansforthefourthquarterof

2013wererecoveriesofpreviouslycharged-offhomeequitylineofcreditbalancesof$9millionrelatedtoa

portfolioacquiredin2007.
Otherincometotaled$452millionintherecentquarter,upfrom$446millioninthefinalquarterof
2013.Thatimprovementresultedfromhigherresidentialmortgagebankingrevenuesassociatedwithloan

servicingactivities,partiallyoffsetbydeclinesintradingaccountandforeignexchangegainsandservice

chargesondepositaccounts.
Otherexpenseinthefourthquarterof2014aggregated$680million,comparedwith$743millionin
theyear-earlierquarter.Includedinsuchamountsareexpensesconsideredtobeﬁnonoperatingﬂinnature

consistingofamortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsof$7millionand$10millioninthe

fourthquartersof2014and2013,respectively.Exclusiveofthosenonoperatingexpenses,noninterest

operatingexpenseswere$673millioninthefourthquarterof2014,downfrom$733millioninthesimilar

quarterof2013.Theloweroperatingexpensesintherecentlycompletedquarterreflectadeclinein

professionalservicescostsanda$40millionlitigation-relatedaccrualinthefourthquarterof2013.The

Company™sefficiencyratioduringthefourthquartersof2014and2013was59.1%and65.5%,respectively.

Table24includesareconciliationofotherexpensetononinterestoperatingexpenseandthecalculationof

theefficiencyratioforeachofthequartersof2014and2013.
SegmentInformation
InaccordancewithGAAP,theCompany™sreportablesegmentshavebeendeterminedbaseduponits

internalprofitabilityreportingsystem,whichisorganizedbystrategicbusinessunit.Certainstrategic

businessunitshavebeencombinedforsegmentinformationreportingpurposeswherethenatureofthe

productsandservices,thetypeofcustomer,andthedistributionofthoseproductsandservicesaresimilar.

ThereportablesegmentsareBusinessBanking,CommercialBanking,CommercialRealEstate,

DiscretionaryPortfolio,ResidentialMortgageBankingandRetailBanking.
ThefinancialinformationoftheCompany™ssegmentswascompiledutilizingtheaccountingpolicies
describedinnote22ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Themanagementaccountingpoliciesandprocesses
86utilizedincompilingsegmentfinancialinformationarehighlysubjectiveand,unlikefinancialaccounting,
arenotbasedonauthoritativeguidancesimilartoGAAP.Asaresult,reportedsegmentsandthefinancial

informationofthereportedsegmentsarenotnecessarilycomparablewithsimilarinformationreportedby

otherfinancialinstitutions.Furthermore,changesinmanagementstructureorallocationmethodologies

andproceduresmayresultinchangesinreportedsegmentfinancialdata.Financialinformationaboutthe

Company™ssegmentsispresentedinnote22ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
TheBusinessBankingsegmentprovidesawiderangeofservicestosmallbusinessesandprofessionals
withinmarketsservedbytheCompanythroughtheCompany™sbranchnetwork,businessbankingcenters

andotherdeliverychannelssuchastelephonebanking,Internetbankingandautomatedtellermachines.

Servicesandproductsofferedbythissegmentincludevariousbusinessloansandleases,includingloans

guaranteedbytheSmallBusinessAdministration,businesscreditcards,depositproducts,andfinancial

servicessuchascashmanagement,payrollanddirectdeposit,merchantcreditcardandlettersofcredit.The

BusinessBankingsegmentrecordednetincomeof$120millionin2014,up8%from$111millionin2013.

Thatimprovementreflects:an$8milliondecreaseintheprovisionforcreditlosses,duetolowernetcharge

offs;highermerchantandcreditcardfeesof$4million;alowerFDICassessmentof$3million;andother

decreasedoperatingcosts.Thosefavorableitemswerepartiallyoffsetbylowernetinterestincomeof$8

million,reflectinga23basispointnarrowingofthenetinterestmarginondepositsoffset,inpart,by

increasesinaverageoutstandingdeposit(predominantlynoninterest-bearing)andloanbalancesof$381

millionand$200million,respectively.NetincomecontributedbytheBusinessBankingsegmenttotaled

$147millionin2012.The24%decreaseinnetincomein2013ascomparedwith2012reflected:lowernet

interestincomeof$22million;increasedcostsassociatedwiththeallocationofoperatingexpensesrelatedto

BSA/AMLcompliance,riskmanagementandotheroperationalinitiativesacrosstheCompany;a$6million

increaseinpersonnelcosts;anda$4millionincreaseintheprovisionforcreditlosses.Thelowernetinterest

incomereflecteda43basispointdeclineinthenetinterestmarginondeposits,partiallyoffsetbya$418

millionincreaseinaveragedepositbalances(predominantlynoninterest-bearing).
TheCommercialBankingsegmentprovidesawiderangeofcreditproductsandbankingservicesfor
middle-marketandlargecommercialcustomers,mainlywithinthemarketsservedbytheCompany.

Servicesprovidedbythissegmentincludecommerciallendingandleasing,lettersofcredit,deposit

products,andcashmanagementservices.NetincomefortheCommercialBankingsegmentincreased5%to

$411millionin2014from$391millionin2013.Theimprovedresultswerelargelyduetoa$44million

decreaseintheprovisionforcreditlosses,reflectinglowernetcharge-offs,andalowerFDICassessmentof

$14million.Thesignificantdeclineinnetcharge-offswaspredominantlytheresultof$49millionofloans

charged-offin2013forarelationshipwithamotorvehicle-relatedpartswholesaler.Thosefavorableitems

wereoffset,inpart,bya$13milliondeclineinnetinterestincomeresultingfromanarrowingofthenet

interestmarginondepositsof27basispointsandonloansof8basispoints,partiallyoffsetbyhigher

averageoutstandingbalancesofloansanddepositsof$1.2billionand$884million,respectively.Net

incomefortheCommercialBankingsegmentin2012was$431million.The9%declineinnetincomein

2013ascomparedwith2012waslargelyduetoa$61millionincreaseintheprovisionforcreditlosses,the

resultofhighernetcharge-offsin2013predominantlyrelatedtotherelationshipwiththemotorvehicle-

relatedpartswholesalernotedabove.
TheCommercialRealEstatesegmentprovidescreditanddepositservicestoitscustomers.Realestate
securingloansinthissegmentisgenerallylocatedintheNewYorkCitymetropolitanarea,upstateNew

York,Pennsylvania,Maryland,theDistrictofColumbia,Delaware,Virginia,WestVirginia,andthe

northwesternportionoftheUnitedStates.Commercialrealestateloansmaybesecuredbyapartment/

multifamilybuildings;office,retailandindustrialspace;orothertypesofcollateral.Activitiesofthis

segmentalsoincludetheorigination,salesandservicingofcommercialrealestateloansthroughtheFannie

MaeDUSprogramandotherprograms.TheCommercialRealEstatesegmentcontributednetincomeof

$316millionin2014,2%belowthe$322millionrecordedin2013.Thatmodestdeclinewasattributableto

thefollowingfactors:lowernetinterestincomeof$31million,resultingfromthenarrowingofthenet

interestmarginonloansanddepositsof13basispointsand31basispoints,respectively,offset,inpart,bya

$14milliondecreaseintheprovisionforcreditlossesandalowerFDICassessment.Netincomeforthe

CommercialRealEstatesegmentin2012was$309million.Theimprovedresultsin2013ascomparedto

2012werelargelyattributabletoa$39millionincreaseinnetinterestincome,resultingfromgrowthin

averageloananddepositbalancesof$694millionand$466million,respectively,anda17basispoint

wideningofthenetinterestmarginonloans,partiallyoffsetbya31basispointnarrowingofthenetinterest

marginondeposits.Thehighernetinterestincomewasoffset,inpart,by:a$3millionincreaseinthe
87provisionforcreditlosses;a$3milliondecreaseinmortgagebankingrevenues;andincreasedother
operatingexpensesthatreflectcostsassociatedwiththeallocationofoperatingexpensesrelatingto

BSA/AMLcompliance,riskmanagement,andotheroperationalinitiativesacrosstheCompany.
TheDiscretionaryPortfoliosegmentincludesinvestmentandtradingaccountsecurities,residential
realestateloansandotherassets;short-termandlong-termborrowedfunds;brokereddeposits;and

CaymanIslandsofficedeposits.Thissegmentalsoprovidesforeignexchangeservicestocustomers.Included

intheassetsoftheDiscretionaryPortfoliosegmentaretheCompany™sportfolioofAlt-Amortgageloans

and,priortothesecondquarterof2013,weremostoftheinvestmentsecuritiesforwhichtheCompanyhad

recognizedother-than-temporaryimpairmentcharges.TheDiscretionaryPortfoliosegmentrecordednet

incomeof$48millionin2014and$30millionin2013,comparedwithanetlossof$33millionin2012.

Includedinthissegment™sresultsfor2013werenetpre-taxlossesof$46millionassociatedwiththesaleof

approximately$1.0billionofprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesthathadbeenheldintheavailable-

for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesportfolio.Alsoreflectedinsecuritiesgainsorlosseswereother-than-

temporaryimpairmentcharges,predominantlyrelatedtocertainprivatelyissuedmortgage-backed

securities,of$10millionin2013and$48millionin2012.Therewerenosecuritiesgainsorlossesin2014.

Excludingsecuritiesgainsandlosses,netincomefortheDiscretionaryPortfoliosegmentwas$63millionin

2013,comparedwithanetlossof$5millionin2012.Onthatbasis,thedeclineinnetincomein2014as

comparedwith2013waslargelydueto$42millionofgainsrecordedin2013fromsecuritization

transactionsassociatedwithone-to-fourfamilyresidentialrealestateloanspreviouslyheldinthe

Company™sloanportfolio.Partiallyoffsettingthatimpactwasan$8millionincreaseinnetinterestincome

thatwasattributabletoa$4.9billionincreaseinaveragebalancesofinvestmentsecuritiesanda16basis

pointwideningofthenetinterestmarginonloans,partiallyoffsetbya$639milliondecreaseinaverage

outstandingloanbalances.Excludingtheimpactofsecuritiesgainsandlosses,themostsignificant

contributorstothefavorableperformancein2013ascomparedwith2012included:the$42millionofgains

fromthesecuritizationtransactions;a$28milliondeclineintheprovisionforcreditlosses,predominantly

theresultoflowernetcharge-offs;anda$31milliondecreaseinintersegmentchargesduetoalower

proportionofresidentialrealestateloansbeingretainedforportfolioratherthanbeingsold.
TheResidentialMortgageBankingsegmentoriginatesandservicesresidentialmortgageloansand
sellssubstantiallyallofthoseloansinthesecondarymarkettoinvestorsortotheDiscretionaryPortfolio

segment.Thissegmenthadalsooriginatedandservicedloanstobuildersanddevelopersofresidentialreal

estateproperties,althoughthatoriginationactivityhasbeensignificantlycurtailed.Inadditiontothe

geographicregionsservedbyorcontiguouswiththeCompany™sbranchnetwork,theCompanymaintains

mortgageloanoriginationofficesinseveralstatesthroughoutthewesternUnitedStates.TheCompany

periodicallypurchasestherightstoservicemortgageloansandalsosub-servicesresidentialrealestateloans

forothers.Residentialrealestateloansheldforsaleareincludedinthissegment.TheResidentialMortgage

Bankingsegment™snetincomedeclined4%to$95millionin2014from$99millionin2013.Thatdecline

wasduetothefollowingfactors:a$71milliondecreaseinloanoriginationandsalesrevenues(including

intersegmentrevenues)duetolowervolumesofloansoriginatedforsale;a$9millionincreaseinthe

provisionforcreditlosses,as2013included$12millionofnetrecoveriesofpreviouslycharged-offloansto

residentialrealestatebuildersanddevelopers;andan$8milliondeclineinnetinterestincome.Thelower

netinterestincomewasattributabletoa$582milliondecreaseinaverageloanbalancesanda25basispoint

narrowingofthenetinterestmarginondeposits.Largelyoffsettingthoseunfavorablefactorswasan$80

millionriseinrevenuesfromservicingresidentialrealestateloans(includingintersegmentrevenues),

predominantlytheresultofsub-servicingactivities.Netincomeforthissegmentaggregated$135millionin

2012.Thedecreaseinnetincomein2013ascomparedto2012waslargelyduetoa$97milliondeclinein

revenuesfromresidentialmortgageoriginationandsalesactivities(includingintersegmentrevenues),due

toloweroriginationvolumes,andincreasedpersonnelandprofessionalservicescostsassociatedwith

expandedresidentialmortgageloansub-servicingactivities.Thoseunfavorablefactorswereoffset,inpart,

by:a$29milliondeclineintheprovisionforcreditlossesreflectingnetrecoveriesin2013ofpreviously

charged-offloanstorealestatebuildersanddevelopersof$12million;a$20millionriseinnetinterest

income,theresultofa$139millionincreaseinaverageoutstandingloanbalancesanda63basispoint

wideningofthenetinterestmarginonloansduetohigherloanyields;anda$16millionriseinrevenues

fromservicingresidentialrealestateloans(includingintersegmentrevenues).
TheRetailBankingsegmentoffersavarietyofservicestoconsumersthroughseveraldelivery
channelswhichincludebranchoffices,automatedtellermachines,telephonebankingandInternetbanking.

TheCompanyhasbranchofficesinNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,Virginia,theDistrictof
88Columbia,WestVirginia,andDelaware.Creditservicesofferedbythissegmentincludeconsumer
installmentloans,automobileloans(originatedbothdirectlyandindirectlythroughdealers),homeequity

loansandlinesofcreditandcreditcards.Thesegmentalsoofferstoitscustomersdepositproducts,

includingdemand,savingsandtimeaccounts;investmentproducts,includingmutualfundsandannuities;

andotherservices.NetincomefortheRetailBankingsegmentwas$120millionin2014,down34%from

$182millionin2013.Thatdeclinewasattributabletothefollowingsignificantfactors:a$69million

decreaseinnetinterestincome,largelyduetoa20basispointnarrowingofthenetinterestmarginon

depositsandadecreaseinaverageoutstandingloansof$537million;a$21milliongainrecognizedin2013

onthesecuritizationandsaleofapproximately$1.4billionofautomobileloanspreviouslyheldinthe

Company™sloanportfolio;a$17milliondeclineinservicechargesondepositaccounts;anda$5million

increaseintheprovisionforcreditlosses,duetohighernetcharge-offs.Thissegment™snetincomedeclined

17%in2013from$221millionin2012.Theprimarycontributortothatdeclinewasa$93milliondecrease

innetinterestincome,largelyduetoa33basispointnarrowingofthenetinterestmarginondepositsanda

decreaseinaverageoutstandingloansof$682million,partiallyoffsetbya16basispointwideningofthenet

interestmarginonloansanda$720millionincreaseinaverageoutstandingdepositbalances.Also

contributingtothelowernetincomein2013werehighernoninterestoperatingexpenses,includingcosts

relatedtoBSA/AMLcompliance,riskmanagement,andotheroperationalinitiatives.Thoseunfavorable

factorswereoffset,inpart,bythe$21milliongainonthesecuritizationandsaleofautomobileloansanda

$23milliondeclineintheprovisionforcreditlosses,largelyduetolowernetcharge-offs.
TheﬁAllOtherﬂcategoryreflectsotheractivitiesoftheCompanythatarenotdirectlyattributableto
thereportedsegments.Reflectedinthiscategoryaretheamortizationofcoredepositandotherintangible

assetsresultingfromtheacquisitionsoffinancialinstitutions,M&T™sshareoftheoperatinglossesofBLG,

merger-relatedgainsandexpensesresultingfromacquisitionsandthenetimpactoftheCompany™s

allocationmethodologiesforinternaltransfersforfundingchargesandcreditsassociatedwiththeearning

assetsandinterest-bearingliabilitiesoftheCompany™sreportablesegmentsandtheprovisionforcredit

losses.TheﬁAllOtherﬂcategoryalsoincludesthetrustincomeoftheCompanythatreflectstheICSand

WASbusinessactivities.ThevariouscomponentsoftheﬁAllOtherﬂcategoryresultedinnetlossesof$44

millionand$181millionin2014and2012,respectively,comparedwithnetincomeof$3millionin2013.

Resultsforthe2013periodincludedrealizedgainsonthesaleoftheCompany™sholdingsofVisaand

MasterCardsharestotaling$103millionandthereversalofanaccrualforacontingentcompensation

obligationof$26millionassumedintheMay2011acquisitionofWilmingtonTrustthatexpired.Partially

offsettingthosefactorswerehigherlitigation-relatedchargesin2013thatreflecteda$40millionlitigation-

relatedaccrualinthefourthquarterof2013.Alsocontributingtotheunfavorableperformancein2014as

comparedto2013wereincreasesinpersonnel-relatedandprofessionalservicecostsrelatedtoBSA/AML

andothercompany-wideinitiativesoffset,inpart,byhighertrustincomeof$12millionandthefavorable

impactfromtheCompany™sallocationmethodologiesforinternaltransfersforfundingandotherchargesof

theCompany™sreportablesegmentsandtheprovisionforcreditlosses.Theimprovedperformancein2013

ascomparedwith2012,inadditiontothoseitemsnotedabovethatwererecordedin2013,wasdueto

highertrustincomeof$24millionandthefavorableimpactfromtheCompany™sallocationmethodologies

forinternaltransfersforfundingandotherchargesoftheCompany™sreportablesegmentsandtheprovision

forcreditlosses.
RecentAccountingDevelopments
InAugust2014,theFinancialAccountingStandardsBoard(ﬁFASBﬂ)issuedamendedaccountingguidance
fortheclassificationofcertaingovernment-guaranteedmortgageloansuponforeclosure.Thisguidance

requiresthatamortgageloanbederecognizedandthataseparateotherreceivableberecognizedupon

foreclosureifthefollowingconditionsaremet:(1)theloanhasagovernmentguaranteethatisnotseparable

fromtheloanbeforeforeclosure;(2)atthetimeofforeclosure,thecreditorhastheintenttoconveythereal

estatepropertytotheguarantorandmakeaclaimontheguarantee,andthecreditorhastheabilitytorecover

underthatclaim;and(3)atthetimeofforeclosure,anyamountoftheclaimthatisdeterminedonthebasis

ofthefairvalueoftherealestateisfixed.Uponforeclosure,theseparateotherreceivableshouldbemeasured

basedupontheamountoftheloanbalance(principalandinterest)expectedtoberecoveredfromthe

guarantor.Thisguidanceiseffectiveforannualperiods,andinterimperiodswithinthoseannualperiods,

beginningafterDecember15,2014.Thisguidanceshouldbeappliedusingaprospectivetransitionmethod

oramodifiedretrospectivetransitionmethod.TheCompanyexpectsthattheadoptionofthisguidancein

2015willnothaveasignificanteffectontheCompany™sfinancialpositionorresultsofoperations.
89InJune2014,theFASBissuedamendedaccountingguidanceforshare-basedpaymentswhenthe
termsofanawardprovidethataperformancetargetcouldbeachievedaftertherequisiteserviceperiod.The

amendedguidancerequiresthataperformancetargetthataffectsvestingandthatcouldbeachievedafter

therequisiteserviceperiodbetreatedasaperformancecondition.Theperformancetargetshouldnotbe

reflectedinestimatingthegrant-datefairvalueoftheaward.Compensationcostshouldberecognizedinthe

periodinwhichitbecomesprobablethattheperformancetargetwillbeachievedandshouldrepresentthe

compensationcostattributabletotheperiod(s)forwhichtherequisiteservicehasalreadybeenrendered.If

theperformancetargetbecomesprobableofbeingachievedbeforetheendoftherequisiteserviceperiod,

theremainingunrecognizedcompensationcostshouldberecognizedprospectivelyovertheremaining

requisiteserviceperiod.Thetotalamountofcompensationcostrecognizedduringandaftertherequisite

serviceperiodshouldreflectthenumberofawardsthatareexpectedtovestandshouldbeadjustedtoreflect

thoseawardsthatultimatelyvest.Therequisiteserviceperiodendswhentheemployeecanceaserendering

serviceandstillbeeligibletovestintheawardiftheperformancetargetisachieved.Thisguidanceis

effectiveforannualperiodsandinterimperiodswithinthoseannualperiodsbeginningafterDecember31,

2015,withearlieradoptionpermitted.TheCompanydoesnotexpecttheamendedguidancepublishedby

theFASBtohaveamaterialimpactonitsfinancialpositionorresultsofoperations.
InJune2014,theFASBissuedamendedaccountingguidanceforrepurchase-to-maturity
transactionsandrepurchasefinancings.Theamendedaccountingguidancechangestheaccountingfor

repurchase-to-maturitytransactionstosecuredborrowingaccounting,whichisconsistentwiththe

accountingforotherrepurchaseagreements.Further,forrepurchasefinancingarrangements,the

amendmentsrequireseparateaccountingforatransferofafinancialassetexecutedcontemporaneouslywith

arepurchaseagreementwiththesamecounterparty,whichwillresultinsecuredborrowingaccountingfor

therepurchaseagreement.Theamendmentsrequirenewdisclosuresontransfersaccountedforassalesin

transactionsthatareeconomicallysimilartorepurchaseagreementsandaboutthetypesofcollateral

pledgedinrepurchaseagreementsandsimilartransactionsaccountedforassecuredborrowings.The

accountingchangesinthisguidanceareeffectiveforthefirstinterimorannualperiodbeginningafter

December15,2014.Changesinaccountingfortransactionsoutstandingontheeffectivedateshouldbe

presentedasacumulative-effectadjustmenttoretainedearningsasofthebeginningoftheperiodof

adoption.Thedisclosureguidanceforcertaintransactionsaccountedforasasaleisrequiredtobepresented

forinterimandannualperiodsbeginningafterDecember15,2014,andthedisclosureguidancefor

repurchaseagreements,securitieslendingtransactions,andrepurchase-to-maturitytransactionsaccounted

forassecuredborrowingsisrequiredtobepresentedforannualperiodsbeginningafterDecember15,2014,

andforinterimperiodsbeginningafterMarch15,2015.TheCompanydoesnotcurrentlyhaverepurchase-

to-maturitytransactionsortransfersofafinancialassetexecutedcontemporaneouslywitharepurchase

agreementwiththesamecounterparty.TheCompanywillmaketherequireddisclosureswhentheguidance

becomeseffective.
InMay2014,theFASBissuedamendedaccountinganddisclosureguidanceforrevenuefrom
contractswithcustomers.Thecoreprincipleoftheaccountingguidanceisthatanentityshouldrecognize

revenuetodepictthetransferofpromisedgoodsorservicestocustomersinanamountthatreflectsthe

considerationtowhichtheentityexpectstobeentitledinexchangeforthosegoodsorservices.Toachieve

thatcoreprinciple,anentityshouldapplythefollowingsteps:(1)identifythecontract(s)withacustomer;

(2)identifytheperformanceobligationsinthecontract;(3)determinethetransactionprice;(4)allocatethe

transactionpricetotheperformanceobligationsinthecontract;(5)recognizerevenuewhen(oras)the

entitysatisfiesaperformanceobligation.Theguidancealsospecifiestheaccountingforsomecoststoobtain

orfulfillacontractwithacustomer.Theamendeddisclosureguidancerequiressufficientinformationto

enableusersoffinancialstatementstounderstandthenature,amount,timing,anduncertaintyofrevenue

andcashflowsarisingfromcontractswithcustomers.Theamendedguidanceiseffectiveforannual

reportingperiodsbeginningafterDecember15,2016,includinginterimperiodswithinthatreporting

period.Theguidanceshouldbeappliedeitherretrospectivelytoeachpriorreportingperiodpresentedor

retrospectivelywiththecumulativeeffectofinitiallyapplyingthisguidancerecognizedatthedateofinitial

application.TheCompanyisstillevaluatingtheimpacttheguidancecouldhaveonitsconsolidated

financialstatements.
InJanuary2014,theFASBissuedamendedaccountinganddisclosureguidanceforreclassificationof
residentialrealestatecollateralizedconsumermortgageloansuponforeclosure.Theamendedguidance

clarifiesthatanin-substancerepossessionorforeclosureoccursandacreditorisconsideredtohavereceived

physicalpossessionofresidentialrealestatepropertycollateralizingaconsumermortgageloan
90uponeither(1)thecreditorobtaininglegaltitletotheresidentialrealestatepropertyuponcompletionofa
foreclosureor(2)theborrowerconveyingallinterestintheresidentialrealestatepropertytothecreditorto

satisfythatloanthroughcompletionofadeedinlieuofforeclosureorthroughasimilarlegalagreement.

Theamendedguidancealsorequiresinterimandannualdisclosureofboth(1)theamountofforeclosed

residentialrealestatepropertyheldbythecreditorand(2)therecordedinvestmentinconsumermortgage

loanscollateralizedbyresidentialrealestatethatareintheprocessofforeclosureaccordingtolocal

requirementsoftheapplicablejurisdiction.Thisguidanceiseffectiveforannualperiods,andinterim

periodswithinthoseannualperiods,beginningafterDecember15,2014.Thisguidanceshouldbeapplied

usingaprospectivetransitionmethodoramodifiedretrospectivetransitionmethod.TheCompanyexpects

thattheadoptionofthisguidancein2015willnothaveasignificanteffectontheCompany™sfinancial

positionorresultsofoperations.
InJanuary2014,theFASBissuedamendedaccountingguidancepermittinganaccountingpolicy
electiontoaccountforinvestmentsinqualifiedaffordablehousingprojectsusingtheproportional

amortizationmethodifcertainconditionsaremet.Undertheproportionalamortizationmethod,anentity

amortizestheinitialcostoftheinvestmentinproportiontothetaxcreditsandothertaxbenefitsreceived

andrecognizesthenetinvestmentperformanceintheincomestatementasacomponentofincometax

expense.Thedecisiontoapplytheproportionalamortizationmethodofaccountingisanaccountingpolicy

electionthatshouldbeappliedconsistentlytoallqualifyingaffordablehousingprojectinvestments.This

guidanceiseffectiveforannualperiods,andinterimreportingperiodswithinthoseannualperiods,

beginningafterDecember15,2014.Thisguidanceshouldbeappliedretrospectivelytoallperiodspresented.

TheCompanyexpectsthattheadoptionofthisguidancein2015willnothaveasignificanteffectonthe

Company™sfinancialpositionorresultsofoperations,butwillresultintherestatementofconsolidated

financialstatementsfor2014andearlieryearstoremovelossesassociatedwithqualifiedaffordablehousing

projectsfromﬁothercostsofoperationsﬂandincludetheamortizationoftheinitialcostoftheinvestment

inincometaxexpense.ThoserestatementsarenotexpectedtohaveamaterialimpactontheCompany™s

previouslyreportednetincomefor2014andearlieryears.
Forward-LookingStatements
Management™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperationsandothersections

ofthisAnnualReportcontainforward-lookingstatementsthatarebasedoncurrentexpectations,estimates

andprojectionsabouttheCompany™sbusiness,management™sbeliefsandassumptionsmadeby

management.Forward-lookingstatementsaretypicallyidentifiedbywordssuchasﬁbelieve,ﬂﬁexpect,ﬂ

ﬁanticipate,ﬂﬁintend,ﬂﬁtarget,ﬂﬁestimate,ﬂﬁcontinue,ﬂﬁpositions,ﬂﬁprospectsﬂorﬁpotential,ﬂbyfuture

conditionalverbssuchasﬁwill,ﬂﬁwould,ﬂﬁshould,ﬂﬁcould,ﬂorﬁmay,ﬂorbyvariationsofsuchwordsorby

similarexpressions.Thesestatementsarenotguaranteesoffutureperformanceandinvolvecertainrisks,

uncertaintiesandassumptions(ﬁFutureFactorsﬂ)whicharedifficulttopredict.Therefore,actualoutcomes

andresultsmaydiffermateriallyfromwhatisexpressedorforecastedinsuchforward-lookingstatements.

Forward-lookingstatementsspeakonlyasofthedatetheyaremadeandtheCompanyassumesnodutyto

updateforward-lookingstatements.
FutureFactorsincludechangesininterestrates,spreadsonearningassetsandinterest-bearing
liabilities,andinterestratesensitivity;prepaymentspeeds,loanoriginations,creditlossesandmarketvalues

ofloans,collateralsecuringloansandotherassets;sourcesofliquidity;commonsharesoutstanding;

commonstockpricevolatility;fairvalueofandnumberofstock-basedcompensationawardstobeissuedin

futureperiods;theimpactofchangesinmarketvaluesontrust-relatedrevenues;legislationand/or

regulationaffectingthefinancialservicesindustryasawhole,andM&Tanditssubsidiariesindividuallyor

collectively,includingtaxlegislationorregulation;regulatorysupervisionandoversight,includingmonetary

policyandcapitalrequirements;changesinaccountingpoliciesorproceduresasmayberequiredbythe

FASBorregulatoryagencies;increasingpriceandproduct/servicecompetitionbycompetitors,including

newentrants;rapidtechnologicaldevelopmentsandchanges;theabilitytocontinuetointroduce

competitivenewproductsandservicesonatimely,cost-effectivebasis;themixofproducts/services;

containingcostsandexpenses;governmentalandpublicpolicychanges;protectionandvalidityof

intellectualpropertyrights;relianceonlargecustomers;technological,implementationandcost/financial

risksinlarge,multi-yearcontracts;theoutcomeofpendingandfuturelitigationandgovernmental

proceedings,includingtax-relatedexaminationsandothermatters;continuedavailabilityoffinancing;

financialresourcesintheamounts,atthetimesandonthetermsrequiredtosupportM&Tandits

subsidiaries™futurebusinesses;andmaterialdifferencesintheactualfinancialresultsofmerger,acquisition
91andinvestmentactivitiescomparedwithM&T™sinitialexpectations,includingthefullrealizationof
anticipatedcostsavingsandrevenueenhancements.
ThesearerepresentativeoftheFutureFactorsthatcouldaffecttheoutcomeoftheforward-looking
statements.Inaddition,suchstatementscouldbeaffectedbygeneralindustryandmarketconditionsand

growthrates,generaleconomicandpoliticalconditions,eithernationallyorinthestatesinwhichM&Tand

itssubsidiariesdobusiness,includinginterestrateandcurrencyexchangeratefluctuations,changesand

trendsinthesecuritiesmarkets,andotherFutureFactors.
92Table23
QUARTERLYTRENDS
2014Quarters
2013Quarters
EarningsanddividendsFourth
ThirdSecondFirstFourthThirdSecondFirstAmountsinthousands,exceptpershare
Interestincome(taxable-equivalentbasis)
..............................$762,619$748,864$740,139$728,897$740,665$748,791$756,424$736,425
Interestexpense
...................................................74,77273,96465,17666,51967,98269,57872,62073,925
Netinterestincome
................................................687,847674,900674,963662,378672,683679,213683,804662,500
Less:provisionforcreditlosses
.......................................33,00029,00030,00032,00042,00048,00057,00038,000
Otherincome
.....................................................451,643451,111456,412420,107446,246477,388508,689432,882
Less:otherexpense
.................................................680,108679,284681,194702,271743,072658,626598,591635,596
Incomebeforeincometaxes
.........................................426,382417,727420,181348,214333,857449,975536,902421,786
Applicableincometaxes
............................................142,826136,542129,996113,252106,236149,391182,219141,223
Taxable-equivalentadjustment
.......................................6,0075,8415,8495,9456,1996,1056,2176,450
Netincome
.......................................................$277,549$275,344$284,336$229,017$221,422$294,479$348,466$274,113
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders-diluted
....................$254,239$251,917$260,695$211,731$203,451$275,356$328,557$255,096
Percommonsharedata
Basicearnings
...................................................$
1.93$1.92$1.99$1.63$1.57$2.13$2.56$2.00
Dilutedearnings
.................................................1.921.911.981.611.562.112.551.98
Cashdividends
..................................................$.70$.70$.70$.70$.70$.70$.70$.70
Averagecommonsharesoutstanding
Basic..........................................................131,450131,265130,856130,212129,497129,171128,252127,669
Diluted........................................................132,278132,128131,828131,126130,464130,265129,017128,636
Performanceratios,annualized

Returnon
Averageassets
...................................................1.12%1.17%1.27%1.07%1.03%1.39%1.68%1.36%
Averagecommonshareholders™equity
...............................9.10%9.18%9.79%8.22%7.99%11.06%13.78%11.10%
Netinterestmarginonaverageearningassets(taxable-equivalentbasis)
......3.10%3.23%3.40%3.52%3.56%3.61%3.71%3.71%
Nonaccrualloanstototalloansandleases,netofunearneddiscount
.........1.20%1.29%1.36%1.39%1.36%1.44%1.46%1.60%
Netoperating(tangible)results(a)

Netoperatingincome(inthousands)
..................................$281,929$279,838$289,974$235,162$227,797$300,968$360,734$285,136
Dilutednetoperatingincomepercommonshare
........................1.951.942.021.661.612.162.652.06
Annualizedreturnon
Averagetangibleassets
............................................1.18%1.24%1.35%1.15%1.11%1.48%1.81%1.48%
Averagetangiblecommonshareholders™equity
........................13.55%13.80%14.92%12.76%12.67%17.64%22.72%18.71%
Efficiencyratio(b)
.................................................59.06%59.67%59.39%63.95%65.48%56.03%50.92%55.88%
Balancesheetdata

Inmillions,exceptpershare

Averagebalances
Totalassets(c)
..................................................$
98,644$93,245$89,873$86,665$85,330$84,011$83,352$81,913
Totaltangibleassets(c)
...........................................95,09389,68986,31183,09681,75480,42779,76078,311
Earningassets
...................................................87,96582,77679,55676,28875,04974,66773,96072,339
Investmentsecurities
.............................................12,97812,78010,9599,2658,3546,9795,2935,803
Loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount
...........................65,76764,76364,34363,76363,55064,85865,97965,852
Deposits.......................................................75,51570,77269,65967,32767,21266,23265,68064,540
Commonshareholders™equity(c)
...................................11,21111,01510,80810,57610,22810,0039,6879,448
Tangiblecommonshareholders™equity(c)
............................7,6607,4597,2467,0076,6526,4196,0955,846
Atendofquarter
Totalassets(c)
..................................................$
96,686$97,228$90,835$88,530$85,162$84,427$83,229$82,812
Totaltangibleassets(c)
...........................................93,13793,67487,27684,96581,58980,84779,64179,215
Earningassets
...................................................86,27886,75180,06277,95074,70674,08573,92773,543
Investmentsecurities
.............................................12,99413,34812,12010,3648,7968,3105,2115,661
Loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount
...........................66,66965,57264,74864,13564,07363,65965,97265,924
Deposits.......................................................73,58274,34269,82968,69967,11966,55265,66165,090
Commonshareholders™equity,netofundeclaredcumulativepreferred
dividends(c)..................................................11,10211,09910,93410,65210,42110,1339,8369,545
Tangiblecommonshareholders™equity(c)
............................7,5537,5457,3757,0876,8486,5536,2485,948
Equitypercommonshare
.........................................83.8883.9982.8681.0579.8177.8175.9873.99
Tangibleequitypercommonshare
..................................57.0657.1055.8953.9252.4550.3248.2646.11
Marketpricepercommonshare
High..........................................................$
128.96$128.69$125.90$123.04$117.29$119.54$112.01$105.90
Low...........................................................
112.42118.51116.10109.16109.23109.4795.6899.59
Closing........................................................125.62123.29124.05121.30116.42111.92111.75103.16
(a)Excludesamortizationandbalancesrelatedtogoodwillandcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsandmerger-relatedexpenseswhich,excepti
nthecalculationof
theefficiencyratio,arenetofapplicableincometaxeffects.AreconciliationofnetincomeandnetoperatingincomeappearsinTable24.
(b)Excludesimpactofmerger-relatedexpensesandnetsecuritiesgainsorlosses.

(c)Thedifferencebetweentotalassetsandtotaltangibleassets,andcommonshareholders™equityandtangiblecommonshareholders™equity,repre
sentsgoodwill,core
depositandotherintangibleassets,netofapplicabledeferredtaxbalances.AreconciliationofsuchbalancesappearsinTable24.
93Table24
RECONCILIATIONOFQUARTERLYGAAPTONON-GAAPMEASURES
2014Quarters
2013Quarters
FourthThirdSecondFirstFourthThirdSecondFirstIncomestatementdata
Inthousands,exceptpershare

Netincome

Netincome
......................................$
277,549$275,344$284,336$229,017$221,422$294,479$348,466$274,113
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangible
assets(a).......................................4,3804,4945,6386,1456,3756,4897,6328,148
Merger-relatedexpenses(a)
..........................ŠŠŠŠŠŠ4,6362,875
Netoperatingincome
............................$
281,929$279,838$289,974$235,162$227,797$300,968$360,734$285,136
Earningspercommonshare
Dilutedearningspercommonshare
...................$
1.92$1.91$1.98$1.61$1.56$2.11$2.55$1.98
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangible
assets(a)........................................03.03.04.05.05.05.06.06
Merger-relatedexpenses(a)
..........................ŠŠŠŠŠŠ.04.02
Dilutednetoperatingearningspercommonshare
.....$
1.95$1.94$2.02$1.66$1.61$2.16$2.65$2.06
Otherexpense
Otherexpense
....................................$
680,108$679,284$681,194$702,271$743,072$658,626$598,591$635,596
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets..(7,170)(7,358)(9,234)(10,062)(10,439)(10,628)(12,502)(13,343)

Merger-relatedexpenses
............................ŠŠŠŠŠŠ(7,632)(4,732)
Noninterestoperatingexpense
.....................$
672,938$671,926$671,960$692,209$732,633$647,998$578,457$617,521
Merger-relatedexpenses
Salariesandemployeebenefits
.......................$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š$300$536
Equipmentandnetoccupancy
.......................ŠŠŠŠŠŠ489201
Printing,postageandsupplies
.......................ŠŠŠŠŠŠ998827
Othercostsofoperations
...........................ŠŠŠŠŠŠ5,8453,168
Total.........................................$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š$
7,632$4,732
Efficiencyratio
Noninterestoperatingexpense(numerator)
............$
672,938$671,926$671,960$692,209$732,633$647,998$578,457$617,521
Taxable-equivalentnetinterestincome
................687,847674,900674,963662,378672,683679,213683,804662,500
Otherincome
....................................451,643451,111456,412420,107446,246477,388508,689432,882
Less:Gainonbankinvestmentsecurities
...............ŠŠŠŠŠŠ56,457Š
NetOTTIlossesrecognizedinearnings
............ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠ(9,800)Denominator.....................................$1,139,490$1,126,011$1,131,375$1,082,485$1,118,929$1,156,601$1,136,036$1,105,182
Efficiencyratio
....................................59.06%59.67%59.39%63.95%65.48%56.03%50.92%55.88%
Balancesheetdata
Inmillions

Averageassets

Averageassets
....................................$
98,644$93,245$89,873$86,665$85,330$84,011$83,352$81,913
Goodwill........................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
...............(38)(45)(53)(64)(74)(84)(95)(109)
Deferredtaxes
....................................1214162023252832
Averagetangibleassets
...........................$
95,093$89,689$86,311$83,096$81,754$80,427$79,760$78,311
Averagecommonequity
Averagetotalequity
................................$
12,442$12,247$12,039$11,648$11,109$10,881$10,563$10,322
Preferredstock
...................................(1,231)(1,232)(1,231)(1,072)(881)(878)(876)(874)
Averagecommonequity
..........................11,21111,01510,80810,57610,22810,0039,6879,448
Goodwill........................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
...............(38)(45)(53)(64)(74)(84)(95)(109)
Deferredtaxes
....................................1214162023252832
Averagetangiblecommonequity
...................$
7,660$7,459$7,246$7,007$6,652$6,419$6,095$5,846
Atendofquarter
Totalassets

Totalassets
......................................$
96,686$97,228$90,835$88,530$85,162$84,427$83,229$82,812
Goodwill........................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
...............(35)(42)(49)(59)(69)(79)(90)(102)
Deferredtaxes
....................................1113151921242730
Totaltangibleassets
.............................$
93,137$93,674$87,276$84,965$81,589$80,847$79,641$79,215
Totalcommonequity
Totalequity
......................................$
12,336$12,333$12,169$11,887$11,306$11,016$10,716$10,423
Preferredstock
...................................(1,231)(1,232)(1,232)(1,232)(882)(879)(877)(875)
Undeclareddividends-cumulativepreferredstock
........(3)(2)(3)(3)(3)(4)(3)(3)
Commonequity,netofundeclaredcumulative
preferreddividends
............................11,10211,09910,93410,65210,42110,1339,8369,545
Goodwill........................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
...............(35)(42)(49)(59)(69)(79)(90)(102)
Deferredtaxes
....................................1113151921242730
Totaltangiblecommonequity
.......................$
7,553$7,545$7,375$7,087$6,848$6,553$6,248$5,948
(a)Afteranyrelatedtaxeffect.
94Item7A.
QuantitativeandQualitativeDisclosuresAboutMarketRisk.
IncorporatedbyreferencetothediscussioncontainedinPartII,Item7,ﬁManagement™sDiscussionand
AnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations,ﬂunderthecaptionsﬁLiquidity,MarketRisk,and

InterestRateSensitivityﬂ(includingTable21)andﬁCapital.ﬂ
Item8.
FinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData.
FinancialStatementsandSupplementaryDataconsistofthefinancialstatementsasindexedandpresented
belowandTable23ﬁQuarterlyTrendsﬂpresentedinPartII,Item7,ﬁManagement™sDiscussionand

AnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations.ﬂ
IndextoFinancialStatementsandFinancialStatementSchedules
ReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReporting
........................................96
ReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm
....................................97
ConsolidatedBalanceSheetŠDecember31,2014and2013
..................................98
ConsolidatedStatementofIncomeŠYearsendedDecember31,2014,2013and2012
.............99
ConsolidatedStatementofComprehensiveIncomeŠYearsendedDecember31,2014,2013and
2012..............................................................................100
ConsolidatedStatementofCashFlowsŠYearsendedDecember31,2014,2013and2012
..........101
ConsolidatedStatementofChangesinShareholders™EquityŠYearsendedDecember31,2014,2013
and2012
..........................................................................102
NotestoFinancialStatements
...........................................................103
95ReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReporting
Managementisresponsibleforestablishingandmaintainingadequateinternalcontroloverfinancial

reportingatM&TBankCorporationandsubsidiaries(ﬁtheCompanyﬂ).Managementhasassessedthe

effectivenessoftheCompany™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingasofDecember31,2014basedon

criteriadescribedinﬁInternalControlŠIntegratedFramework(2013)ﬂissuedbytheCommitteeof

SponsoringOrganizationsoftheTreadwayCommission.Basedonthatassessment,managementconcluded

thattheCompanymaintainedeffectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingasofDecember31,2014.
TheconsolidatedfinancialstatementsoftheCompanyhavebeenauditedby
PricewaterhouseCoopersLLP,anindependentregisteredpublicaccountingfirm,thatwasengagedto

expressanopinionastothefairnessofpresentationofsuchfinancialstatements.PricewaterhouseCoopers

LLPwasalsoengagedtoassesstheeffectivenessoftheCompany™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.

ThereportofPricewaterhouseCoopersLLPfollowsthisreport.
M&TBANKCORPORATION
ROBERTG.W
ILMERSChairmanoftheBoardandChiefExecutiveOfficer
RENÉF.J
ONESExecutiveVicePresidentandChiefFinancialOfficer
96ReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm
TotheBoardofDirectorsandShareholdersof
M&TBankCorporation
Inouropinion,theaccompanyingconsolidatedbalancesheetsandtherelatedconsolidatedstatementsof
income,comprehensiveincome,cashflows,andchangesinshareholders™equitypresentfairly,inall

materialrespects,thefinancialpositionofM&TBankCorporationanditssubsidiaries(theﬁCompanyﬂ)at

December31,2014andDecember31,2013,andtheresultsofitsoperationsanditscashflowsforeachof

thethreeyearsintheperiodendedDecember31,2014inconformitywithaccountingprinciplesgenerally

acceptedintheUnitedStatesofAmerica.Alsoinouropinion,theCompanymaintained,inallmaterial

respects,effectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingasofDecember31,2014,basedoncriteria

establishedinInternalControlŠIntegratedFramework(2013)issuedbytheCommitteeofSponsoring

OrganizationsoftheTreadwayCommission(COSO).TheCompany™smanagementisresponsibleforthese

financialstatements,formaintainingeffectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingandforits

assessmentoftheeffectivenessofinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting,includedintheaccompanying

ReportonInternalControloverFinancialReporting.Ourresponsibilityistoexpressopinionsonthese

financialstatementsandontheCompany™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingbasedonourintegrated

audits.WeconductedourauditsinaccordancewiththestandardsofthePublicCompanyAccounting

OversightBoard(UnitedStates).Thosestandardsrequirethatweplanandperformtheauditstoobtain

reasonableassuranceaboutwhetherthefinancialstatementsarefreeofmaterialmisstatementandwhether

effectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingwasmaintainedinallmaterialrespects.Ourauditsofthe

financialstatementsincludedexamining,onatestbasis,evidencesupportingtheamountsanddisclosuresin

thefinancialstatements,assessingtheaccountingprinciplesusedandsignificantestimatesmadeby

management,andevaluatingtheoverallfinancialstatementpresentation.Ourauditofinternalcontrolover

financialreportingincludedobtaininganunderstandingofinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting,

assessingtheriskthatamaterialweaknessexists,andtestingandevaluatingthedesignandoperating

effectivenessofinternalcontrolbasedontheassessedrisk.Ourauditsalsoincludedperformingsuchother

proceduresasweconsiderednecessaryinthecircumstances.Webelievethatourauditsprovideareasonable

basisforouropinions.
Acompany™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingisaprocessdesignedtoprovidereasonableassurance
regardingthereliabilityoffinancialreportingandthepreparationoffinancialstatementsforexternal

purposesinaccordancewithgenerallyacceptedaccountingprinciples.Acompany™sinternalcontrolover

financialreportingincludesthosepoliciesandproceduresthat(i)pertaintothemaintenanceofrecords

that,inreasonabledetail,accuratelyandfairlyreflectthetransactionsanddispositionsoftheassetsofthe

company;(ii)providereasonableassurancethattransactionsarerecordedasnecessarytopermit

preparationoffinancialstatementsinaccordancewithgenerallyacceptedaccountingprinciples,andthat

receiptsandexpendituresofthecompanyarebeingmadeonlyinaccordancewithauthorizationsof

managementanddirectorsofthecompany;and(iii)providereasonableassuranceregardingpreventionor

timelydetectionofunauthorizedacquisition,use,ordispositionofthecompany™sassetsthatcouldhavea

materialeffectonthefinancialstatements.
Becauseofitsinherentlimitations,internalcontroloverfinancialreportingmaynotpreventordetect
misstatements.Also,projectionsofanyevaluationofeffectivenesstofutureperiodsaresubjecttotherisk

thatcontrolsmaybecomeinadequatebecauseofchangesinconditions,orthatthedegreeofcompliance

withthepoliciesorproceduresmaydeteriorate.
Buffalo,NewYork

February20,2015
97M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
ConsolidatedBalanceSheet
(Dollarsinthousands,exceptpershare)December31
20142013AssetsCashandduefrombanks
...............................................$
1,289,965$1,573,361
Interest-bearingdepositsatbanks
........................................6,470,8671,651,138
Federalfundssold
.....................................................83,39299,573
Tradingaccount
......................................................308,175376,131
Investmentsecurities(includespledgedsecuritiesthatcanbesoldorrepledgedof
$1,631,267atDecember31,2014;$1,696,438atDecember31,2013)
Availableforsale(cost:$8,919,324atDecember31,2014;$4,444,365at
December31,2013)
...............................................9,156,9324,531,786
Heldtomaturity(fairvalue:$3,538,282atDecember31,2014;$3,860,127at
December31,2013)
...............................................3,507,8683,966,130
Other(fairvalue:$328,742atDecember31,2014;$298,581atDecember31,
2013)...........................................................328,742298,581
Totalinvestmentsecurities
..........................................12,993,5428,796,497
Loansandleases
......................................................66,899,36964,325,783
Unearneddiscount
..................................................(230,413)(252,624)
Loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount
.............................66,668,95664,073,159
Allowanceforcreditlosses
............................................(919,562)(916,676)
Loansandleases,net
...............................................65,749,39463,156,483
Premisesandequipment
................................................612,984633,520
Goodwill............................................................3,524,6253,524,625
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets
...................................35,02768,851
Accruedinterestandotherassets
.........................................5,617,5645,282,212
Totalassets
......................................................$96,685,535$85,162,391
LiabilitiesNoninterest-bearingdeposits
............................................$26,947,880$24,661,007
NOWaccounts
.......................................................2,307,8151,989,441
Savingsdeposits
.......................................................41,085,80336,621,580
Timedeposits
........................................................3,063,9733,523,838
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
........................................176,582322,746
Totaldeposits
....................................................73,582,05367,118,612
Federalfundspurchasedandagreementstorepurchasesecurities
...............192,676260,455
Accruedinterestandotherliabilities
......................................1,567,9511,368,922
Long-termborrowings
.................................................9,006,9595,108,870
Totalliabilities
....................................................84,349,63973,856,859
Shareholders™equity
Preferredstock,$1.00par,1,000,000sharesauthorized;Issuedandoutstanding:
Liquidationpreferenceof$1,000pershare:731,500sharesatDecember31,2014;

381,500sharesatDecember31,2013;Liquidationpreferenceof$10,000per

share:50,000sharesatDecember31,2014andDecember31,2013
............1,231,500881,500
Commonstock,$.50par,250,000,000sharesauthorized,132,312,931sharesissued
atDecember31,2014;130,516,364sharesissuedatDecember31,2013
........66,15765,258
Commonstockissuable,41,330sharesatDecember31,2014;47,231sharesat
December31,2013
..................................................2,6082,915
Additionalpaid-incapital
...............................................3,409,5063,232,014
Retainedearnings
.....................................................7,807,1197,188,004
Accumulatedothercomprehensiveincome(loss),net
........................(180,994)(64,159)
Totalshareholders™equity
...........................................12,335,89611,305,532
Totalliabilitiesandshareholders™equity
...............................$96,685,535$85,162,391
Seeaccompanyingnotestofinancialstatements.
98M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
ConsolidatedStatementofIncome
(Inthousands,exceptpershare)YearEndedDecember31
201420132012Interestincome
Loansandleases,includingfees
........................................$2,596,586$2,734,708$2,704,156
Depositsatbanks
...................................................13,3615,2011,221
Federalfundssold
...................................................6410421
Agreementstoresellsecurities
.........................................Š10Š
Tradingaccount
....................................................1,1191,2651,126
Investmentsecurities
Fullytaxable
.....................................................340,391209,244227,116
Exemptfromfederaltaxes
..........................................5,3566,8028,045
Totalinterestincome
............................................2,956,8772,957,3342,941,685
Interestexpense
NOWaccounts
.....................................................1,4041,2871,343
Savingsdeposits
....................................................45,46554,94868,011
Timedeposits
......................................................15,51526,43946,102
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
......................................699
1,0181,130
Short-termborrowings
...............................................101430
1,286Long-termborrowings
...............................................217,247199,983225,297
Totalinterestexpense
............................................280,431284,105343,169
Netinterestincome
..................................................2,676,4462,673,2292,598,516
Provisionforcreditlosses
...............................................124,000185,000204,000
Netinterestincomeafterprovisionforcreditlosses
........................2,552,4462,488,2292,394,516
Otherincome
Mortgagebankingrevenues
...........................................362,912331,265349,064
Servicechargesondepositaccounts
....................................427,956446,941446,698
Trustincome
.......................................................508,258496,008471,852
Brokerageservicesincome
............................................67,21265,64759,059
Tradingaccountandforeignexchangegains
..............................29,87440,82835,634
Gainonbankinvestmentsecurities
.....................................Š
56,4579
Totalother-than-temporaryimpairment(ﬁOTTIﬂ)losses
...................Š
(1,884)(32,067)
PortionofOTTIlossesrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincome(before
taxes)...........................................................Š
(7,916)(15,755)
NetOTTIlossesrecognizedinearnings
...............................Š
(9,800)(47,822)
EquityinearningsofBayviewLendingGroupLLC
........................(16,672)(16,126)(21,511)
Otherrevenuesfromoperations
.......................................399,733453,985374,287
Totalotherincome
..............................................1,779,2731,865,2051,667,270
Otherexpense
Salariesandemployeebenefits
.........................................1,404,9501,355,1781,314,540
Equipmentandnetoccupancy
.........................................269,299264,327257,551
Printing,postageandsupplies
.........................................38,20139,55741,929
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets
....................33,82446,91260,631
FDICassessments
...................................................55,53169,584101,110
Othercostsofoperations
.............................................941,052860,327733,499
Totalotherexpense
.............................................2,742,8572,635,8852,509,260
Incomebeforetaxes
.................................................1,588,8621,717,5491,552,526
Incometaxes
.........................................................522,616579,069523,028
Netincome
.........................................................$1,066,246$1,138,480$1,029,498
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders
Basic.............................................................$
978,531$1,062,429$953,390
Diluted...........................................................978,5811,062,496953,429
Netincomepercommonshare
Basic.............................................................$
7.47$8.26$7.57
Diluted...........................................................7.428.207.54
Seeaccompanyingnotestofinancialstatements.
99M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
ConsolidatedStatementofComprehensiveIncome
(Inthousands)
YearEndedDecember31
201420132012Netincome
................................................$1,066,246$1,138,480$1,029,498
Othercomprehensiveincome,netoftaxandreclassification
adjustments:Netunrealizedgains(losses)oninvestmentsecurities
..........93,275(2,865)114,825
Cashflowhedgesadjustments
.............................(96)Š(112)
Foreigncurrencytranslationadjustment
.....................(2,607)381519
Definedbenefitplansliabilityadjustments
...................(207,407)178,589945
Totalothercomprehensiveincome(loss)
................(116,835)176,105116,177
Totalcomprehensiveincome
..........................$
949,411$1,314,585$1,145,675
Seeaccompanyingnotestofinancialstatements.
100M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
ConsolidatedStatementofCashFlows
(Inthousands)
YearEndedDecember31
201420132012Cashflowsfromoperatingactivities
Netincome
......................................................................................$
1,066,246$1,138,480$1,029,498
Adjustmentstoreconcilenetincometonetcashprovidedbyoperatingactivities
Provisionforcreditlosses
.........................................................................124,000185,000204,000
Depreciationandamortizationofpremisesandequipment
..............................................96,49691,46984,375
Amortizationofcapitalizedservicingrights
...........................................................68,41065,35459,555
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets
................................................33,82446,91260,631
Provisionfordeferredincometaxes
.................................................................92,848139,785131,858
Assetwrite-downs
...............................................................................6,59317,91863,790
Netgainonsalesofassets
.........................................................................(6,859)(127,890)(6,868)
Netchangeinaccruedinterestreceivable,payable
......................................................15,163(10,523)(13,898)
Netchangeinotheraccruedincomeandexpense
......................................................(68,722)71,523(200,704)
Netchangeinloansoriginatedforsale
...............................................................(350,581)(674,062)(924,839)
Netchangeintradingaccountassetsandliabilities
.....................................................21,623(11,642)12,583
Netcashprovidedbyoperatingactivities
.............................................................1,099,041932,324499,981
Cashflowsfrominvestingactivities
Proceedsfromsalesofinvestmentsecurities
Availableforsale
................................................................................16
1,081,80249,528
Other.........................................................................................23,44513,17278,071
Proceedsfrommaturitiesofinvestmentsecurities
Availableforsale
................................................................................998,4131,034,5641,585,260
Heldtomaturity
................................................................................468,999287,837329,279
Purchasesofinvestmentsecurities
Availableforsale
................................................................................(5,347,145)(197,931)(28,161)
Heldtomaturity
................................................................................(21,283)(1,977,064)(285,125)
Other.........................................................................................(53,606)(9,105)(13,833)
Net(increase)decreaseinloansandleases
..............................................................(2,421,162)123,120(5,672,747)
Net(increase)decreaseininterest-bearingdepositsatbanks
...............................................(4,819,729)(1,521,193)25,015
Capitalexpenditures,net
...........................................................................(73,161)(129,563)(91,519)
Netincreaseinloanservicingadvances
................................................................(484,689)(1,004,923)(69,084)
Other,net
.......................................................................................19,53195,70632,458
Netcashusedbyinvestingactivities
.................................................................(11,710,371)(2,203,578)(4,060,858)
Cashflowsfromfinancingactivities
Netincreaseindeposits
.............................................................................6,466,6971,513,8846,230,391
Netincrease(decrease)inshort-termborrowings
........................................................(67,779)(814,027)292,422
Proceedsfromlong-termborrowings
..................................................................4,345,478799,760Š
Paymentsonlong-termborrowings
...................................................................(426,275)(261,212)(2,080,167)
DividendspaidŠcommon
.........................................................................(371,199)(365,349)(357,717)
DividendspaidŠpreferred
.........................................................................(70,234)(53,450)(53,450)
Proceedsfromissuanceofpreferredstock
..............................................................346,500ŠŠ
Other,net
.......................................................................................88,565137,96763,616
Netcashprovidedbyfinancingactivities
.............................................................10,311,753957,5734,095,095
Netincrease(decrease)incashandcashequivalents
........................................................(299,577)(313,681)534,218
Cashandcashequivalentsatbeginningofyear
............................................................1,672,9341,986,6151,452,397
Cashandcashequivalentsatendofyear
.................................................................$
1,373,357$1,672,934$1,986,615
Supplementaldisclosureofcashflowinformation
Interestreceivedduringtheyear
......................................................................$
2,893,153$2,894,699$2,931,409
Interestpaidduringtheyear
.........................................................................257,553301,734371,887
Incometaxespaidduringtheyear
....................................................................411,912389,008405,598
Supplementalscheduleofnoncashinvestingandfinancingactivities
Securitizationofresidentialmortgageloansallocatedto
Available-for-saleinvestmentsecurities
..............................................................$
134,698$1,690,490$Š
Held-to-maturityinvestmentsecurities
..............................................................Š
1,245,444Š
Capitalizedservicingrights
........................................................................1,76030,879Š
Realestateacquiredinsettlementofloans
..............................................................43,82144,80448,932
Seeaccompanyingnotestofinancialstatements.
101M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
ConsolidatedStatementofChangesinShareholders™Equity
(Inthousands,exceptpershare)
PreferredStockCommonStockCommonStockIssuableAdditionalPaid-inCapitalRetainedEarningsAccumulatedOtherComprehensiveIncome(Loss),
NetTotal2012BalanceŠJanuary1,2012
.....................$
864,58562,8424,0722,828,9865,867,165(356,441)9,271,209
Totalcomprehensiveincome
...................ŠŠŠŠ
1,029,498116,1771,145,675
Preferredstockcashdividends
..................ŠŠŠŠ
(53,450)Š(53,450)
Amortizationofpreferredstockdiscount
..........7,915ŠŠŠ(7,915)ŠŠ
Stock-basedcompensationplans:
Compensationexpense,net
...................Š229Š
47,937ŠŠ48,166
Exercisesofstockoptions,net
.................Š928Š
135,017ŠŠ135,945
Stockpurchaseplan
.........................Š75Š
10,042ŠŠ10,117
Directors™stockplan
........................Š9Š
1,471ŠŠ1,480
Deferredcompensationplans,net,including
dividendequivalents
......................Š5
(599)593(160)Š(161)
Other....................................ŠŠŠ
1,474ŠŠ1,474
CommonstockcashdividendsŠ$2.80pershare...ŠŠŠŠ(357,862)Š(357,862)
BalanceŠDecember31,2012
..................$
872,50064,0883,4733,025,5206,477,276(240,264)10,202,593
2013
Totalcomprehensiveincome
...................ŠŠŠŠ
1,138,480176,1051,314,585
Preferredstockcashdividends
..................ŠŠŠŠ
(53,450)Š(53,450)
Amortizationofpreferredstockdiscount
..........9,000ŠŠŠ(9,000)ŠŠ
Exerciseof407,542SeriesCstockwarrantsinto
186,589sharesofcommonstock
...............Š93Š
(93)ŠŠŠ
Exerciseof69,127SeriesAstockwarrantsinto
25,427sharesofcommonstock
................Š13Š
(13)ŠŠŠ
Stock-basedcompensationplans:
Compensationexpense,net
...................Š137Š
37,890ŠŠ38,027
Exercisesofstockoptions,net
.................Š914Š
163,891ŠŠ164,805
Directors™stockplan
........................Š8Š
1,636ŠŠ1,644
Deferredcompensationplans,net,including
dividendequivalents
......................Š5
(558)575(131)Š(109)
Other....................................ŠŠŠ
2,608ŠŠ2,608
CommonstockcashdividendsŠ$2.80pershare...ŠŠŠŠ(365,171)Š(365,171)
BalanceŠDecember31,2013
..................$
881,50065,2582,9153,232,0147,188,004(64,159)11,305,532
2014
Totalcomprehensiveincome
...................ŠŠŠŠ
1,066,246(116,835)949,411
Preferredstockcashdividends
..................ŠŠŠŠ
(75,878)Š(75,878)
IssuanceofSeriesEpreferredstock
...............350,000ŠŠ(3,500)ŠŠ346,500
Exerciseof427,905SeriesAstockwarrantsinto
169,543sharesofcommonstock
...............Š85Š
(85)ŠŠŠ
Stock-basedcompensationplans:
Compensationexpense,net
...................Š128Š
45,306ŠŠ45,434
Exercisesofstockoptions,net
.................Š633Š
122,476ŠŠ123,109
Stockpurchaseplan
.........................Š43Š
9,545ŠŠ9,588
Directors™stockplan
........................Š7Š
1,658ŠŠ1,665
Deferredcompensationplans,net,including
dividendequivalents
......................Š3
(307)345(116)Š(75)
Other....................................ŠŠŠ
1,747ŠŠ1,747
CommonstockcashdividendsŠ$2.80pershare...ŠŠŠŠ(371,137)Š(371,137)
BalanceŠDecember31,2014
..................$1,231,50066,1572,6083,409,5067,807,119(180,994)12,335,896
Seeaccompanyingnotestofinancialstatements.
102M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatements
1.Significantaccountingpolicies
M&TBankCorporation(ﬁM&Tﬂ)isabankholdingcompanyheadquarteredinBuffalo,NewYork.
Throughsubsidiaries,M&Tprovidesindividuals,corporationsandotherbusinesses,andinstitutionswith

commercialandretailbankingservices,includingloansanddeposits,trust,mortgagebanking,asset

management,insuranceandotherfinancialservices.Bankingactivitiesarelargelyfocusedonconsumers

residinginNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,Delaware,VirginiaandtheDistrictofColumbiaand

onsmallandmedium-sizebusinessesbasedinthoseareas.BankingservicesarealsoprovidedinWest

VirginiaandNewJersey,whilecertainsubsidiariesalsoconductactivitiesinotherareas.
TheaccountingandreportingpoliciesofM&Tandsubsidiaries(ﬁtheCompanyﬂ)conformto
generallyacceptedaccountingprinciples(ﬁGAAPﬂ)andtogeneralpracticeswithinthebankingindustry.

ThepreparationoffinancialstatementsinconformitywithGAAPrequiresmanagementtomakeestimates

andassumptionsthataffectthereportedamountsofassetsandliabilitiesanddisclosureofcontingentassets

andliabilitiesatthedateofthefinancialstatementsandthereportedamountsofrevenuesandexpenses

duringthereportingperiod.Actualresultscoulddifferfromthoseestimates.Themoresignificant

accountingpoliciesareasfollows:
ConsolidationTheconsolidatedfinancialstatementsincludeM&Tandallofitssubsidiaries.Allsignificantintercompany

accountsandtransactionsofconsolidatedsubsidiarieshavebeeneliminatedinconsolidation.Thefinancial

statementsofM&Tincludedinnote25reportinvestmentsinsubsidiariesundertheequitymethod.

InformationaboutsomelimitedpurposeentitiesthatareaffiliatesoftheCompanybutarenotincludedin

theconsolidatedfinancialstatementsappearsinnote19.
ConsolidatedStatementofCashFlows
Forpurposesofthisstatement,cashandduefrombanksandfederalfundssoldareconsideredcashand

cashequivalents.
Securitiespurchasedunderagreementstoresellandsecuritiessoldunderagreementstorepurchase
Securitiespurchasedunderagreementstoresellandsecuritiessoldunderagreementstorepurchaseare

treatedascollateralizedfinancingtransactionsandarerecordedatamountsequaltothecashorother

considerationexchanged.ItisgenerallytheCompany™spolicytotakepossessionofcollateralpledgedto

secureagreementstoresell.
Tradingaccount
Financialinstrumentsusedfortradingpurposesarestatedatfairvalue.Realizedgainsandlossesand

unrealizedchangesinfairvalueoffinancialinstrumentsutilizedintradingactivitiesareincludedinﬁtrading

accountandforeignexchangegainsﬂintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.
Investmentsecurities
Investmentsindebtsecuritiesareclassifiedasheldtomaturityandstatedatamortizedcostwhen

managementhasthepositiveintentandabilitytoholdsuchsecuritiestomaturity.Investmentsinotherdebt

securitiesandequitysecuritieshavingreadilydeterminablefairvaluesareclassifiedasavailableforsaleand

statedatestimatedfairvalue.Amortizationofpremiumsandaccretionofdiscountsforinvestment

securitiesavailableforsaleandheldtomaturityareincludedininterestincome.
OthersecuritiesarestatedatcostandincludestockoftheFederalReserveBankofNewYorkandthe
FederalHomeLoanBank(ﬁFHLBﬂ)ofNewYork.
Thecostbasisofindividualsecuritiesiswrittendownthroughachargetoearningswhendeclinesin
valuebelowamortizedcostareconsideredtobeotherthantemporary.Incaseswherefairvalueislessthan

amortizedcostandtheCompanyintendstoselladebtsecurity,itismorelikelythannottoberequiredto

selladebtsecuritybeforerecoveryofitsamortizedcostbasis,ortheCompanydoesnotexpecttorecover

theentireamortizedcostbasisofadebtsecurity,another-than-temporaryimpairmentisconsideredtohave

occurred.IftheCompanyintendstosellthedebtsecurityormorelikelythannotwillberequiredtosellthe
103securitybeforerecoveryofitsamortizedcostbasis,theother-than-temporaryimpairmentisrecognizedin
earningsequaltotheentiredifferencebetweenthedebtsecurity™samortizedcostbasisanditsfairvalue.If

theCompanydoesnotexpecttorecovertheentireamortizedcostbasisofthesecurity,theCompanydoes

notintendtosellthesecurityanditisnotmorelikelythannotthattheCompanywillberequiredtosellthe

securitybeforerecoveryofitsamortizedcostbasis,theother-than-temporaryimpairmentisseparatedinto

(a)theamountrepresentingthecreditlossand(b)theamountrelatedtoallotherfactors.Theamountof

theother-than-temporaryimpairmentrelatedtothecreditlossisrecognizedinearningswhiletheamount

relatedtootherfactorsisrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincome,netofapplicabletaxes.Subsequently,

theCompanyaccountsfortheother-than-temporarilyimpaireddebtsecurityasifthesecurityhadbeen

purchasedonthemeasurementdateoftheother-than-temporaryimpairmentatanamortizedcostbasis

equaltothepreviousamortizedcostbasislesstheother-than-temporaryimpairmentrecognizedin

earnings.Thecostbasisofindividualequitysecuritiesiswrittendowntoestimatedfairvaluethrougha

chargetoearningswhendeclinesinvaluebelowcostareconsideredtobeotherthantemporary.Realized

gainsandlossesonthesalesofinvestmentsecuritiesaredeterminedusingthespecificidentification

method.Loansandleases
TheCompany™saccountingmethodsforloansdependsonwhethertheloanswereoriginatedbythe

Companyorwereacquiredinabusinesscombination.
Originatedloansandleases

Interestincomeonloansisaccruedonalevelyield
method.Loansareplacedonnonaccrualstatusand
previouslyaccruedinterestthereonischargedagainst
incomewhenprincipalorinterestisdelinquent90days,
unlessmanagementdeterminesthattheloanstatuscle
arlywarrantsothertreatment.Nonaccrualcommercial
loansandcommercialrealestateloansarereturnedtoaccrualstatuswhenborrowershavedemonstratedan

abilitytorepaytheirloansandtherearenodelinquentprincipalandinterestpayments.Consumerloansnot

securedbyresidentialrealestatearereturnedtoaccrualstatuswhenallpastdueprincipalandinterest

paymentshavebeenpaidbytheborrower.Loanssecured
byresidentialrealestatearereturnedtoaccrual
statuswhentheyaredeemedtohaveaninsignificantdelayinpaymentsof90daysorless.Loanbalancesare

chargedoffwhenitbecomesevidentthatsuchbalancesarenotfullycollectible.Forcommercialloansand

commercialrealestateloans,charge-offsarerecognizedafteranassessmentbycreditpersonnelofthecapacity

andwillingnessoftheborrowertorepay,theestimatedvalueofanycollateral,andanyotherpotentialsources

ofrepayment.Acharge-offisrecognizedwhen,aftersuchassessment,itbecomesevidentthattheloanbalance

isnotfullycollectible.Forloanssecuredbyresidentialrealestate,theexcessoftheloanbalancesoverthenet

realizablevalueofthepropertycollateralizingtheloanischarged-offwhentheloanbecomes150days

delinquent.Consumerloansaregenerallycharged-offwhentheloansare91to180dayspastdue,depending

onwhethertheloaniscollateralizedandthestatusofrepossessionactivitieswithrespecttosuchcollateral.

Loanfeesandcertaindirectloanoriginationcostsared
eferredandrecognizedasaninterestyieldadjustment
overthelifeoftheloan.Netdeferredfeeshavebeenincludedinunearneddiscountasareductionofloans

outstanding.CommitmentstosellrealestateloansareutilizedbytheCompanytohedgetheexposureto

changesinfairvalueofrealestateloansheldforsale.Thecarryingvalueofhedgedrealestateloansheldforsale

recordedintheconsolidatedbalancesheetincludeschangesinestimatedfairmarketvalueduringthehedge

period,typicallyfromthedateofclosethroughthesaledate.Valuationadjustmentsmadeontheseloansand

commitmentsareincludedinﬁmortgagebankingrevenues.ﬂ
Exceptforconsumerandresidentialmortgageloa
nsthatareconsideredsmallerbalancehomogenous
loansandareevaluatedcollectively,theCompanyconsidersaloantobeimpairedforpurposesofapplying

GAAPwhen,basedoncurrentinformationandevents,itisprobablethattheCompanywillbeunableto

collectallamountsaccordingtothecontractualtermsoftheloanagreementortheloanisdelinquent90days.

Regardlessofloantype,theCompanyconsidersaloantobeimpairedifitqualifiesasatroubleddebt

restructuring.Impairedloansareclassifiedaseithernonaccrualorasloansrenegotiatedatbelowmarketrates

whichcontinuetoaccrueinterest,providedthatacreditassessmentoftheborrower™sfinancialcondition

resultsinanexpectationoffullrepaymentunderthemodifiedcontractualterms.Certainloansgreaterthan

90daysdelinquentarenotconsideredimpairediftheya
rewell-securedandintheprocessofcollection.Loans
lessthan90daysdelinquentaredeemedtohaveaninsignificantdelayinpaymentandaregenerallynot

consideredimpaired.Impairmentofaloanismeasure
dbasedonthepresentvalueofexpectedfuturecash
flowsdiscountedattheloan™seffectiveinterestrate,th
eloan™sobservablemarketprice,orthefairvalueof
104collateraliftheloaniscollateral-dependent.Interestre
ceivedonimpairedloansplacedonnonaccrualstatusis
generallyappliedtoreducethecarryingvalueoftheloanor,ifprincipalisconsideredfullycollectible,

recognizedasinterestincome.
Residualvalueestimatesforcommercialleasesaregenerallydeterminedthroughinternalorexternal
reviewsoftheleasedproperty.TheCompanyreviewscommercialleaseresidualvaluesatleastannuallyand

recognizesresidualvalueimpairmentsdeemedtobeotherthantemporary.
Loansandleasesacquiredinabusinesscombination

LoansacquiredinabusinesscombinationsubsequenttoDecember31,2008arerecordedatfairvaluewith

nocarry-overofanacquiredentity™spreviouslyestablishedallowanceforcreditlosses.Theexcessofcash

flowsexpectedatacquisitionovertheestimatedfairvalueofacquiredloansisrecognizedasinterestincome

overtheremaininglivesoftheloans.Subsequentdecreasesintheexpectedprincipalcashflowsrequirethe

CompanytoevaluatetheneedforadditionstotheCompany™sallowanceforcreditlosses.Subsequent

improvementsinexpectedcashflowsresultfirstintherecoveryofanyrelatedallowanceforcreditlosses

andtheninrecognitionofadditionalinterestincomeoverthethen-remaininglivesoftheloans.
Purchasedimpairedloansrepresentspecificallyidentifiedloanswithevidenceofcreditdeterioration
forwhichitwasprobableatacquisitionthattheCompanywouldbeunabletocollectallcontractual

principalandinterestpayments.
Allowanceforcreditlosses
Theallowanceforcreditlossesrepresents,inmanagement™sjudgment,theamountoflossesinherentinthe

loanandleaseportfolioasofthebalancesheetdate.Theallowanceisdeterminedbymanagement™s

evaluationoftheloanandleaseportfoliobasedonsuchfactorsasthedifferingeconomicrisksassociated

witheachloancategory,thecurrentfinancialconditionofspecificborrowers,theeconomicenvironmentin

whichborrowersoperate,thelevelofdelinquentloans,thevalueofanycollateraland,whereapplicable,the

existenceofanyguaranteesorindemnifications.Theeffectsofprobabledecreasesinexpectedprincipalcash

flowsonacquiredloansarealsoconsideredintheestablishmentoftheallowanceforcreditlosses.
Assetstakeninforeclosureofdefaultedloans
Assetstakeninforeclosureofdefaultedloansareprimarilycomprisedofcommercialandresidentialreal

propertyandareincludedinﬁotherassetsﬂintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Uponacquisitionofassets

takeninsatisfactionofadefaultedloan,theexcessoftheremainingloanbalanceovertheasset™sestimated

fairvaluelesscoststosellischarged-offagainsttheallowanceforcreditlosses.Subsequentdeclinesinvalue

oftheassetsarerecognizedasﬁothercostsofoperationsﬂintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.
Premisesandequipment
Premisesandequipmentarestatedatcostlessaccumulateddepreciation.Depreciationexpenseiscomputed

principallyusingthestraight-linemethodovertheestimatedusefullivesoftheassets.
Capitalizedservicingrights
Capitalizedservicingassetsareincludedinﬁotherassetsﬂintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Separately

recognizedservicingassetsareinitiallymeasuredatfairvalue.TheCompanyusestheamortizationmethod

tosubsequentlymeasureservicingassets.Underthatmethod,capitalizedservicingassetsarechargedto

expenseinproportiontoandovertheperiodofestimatednetservicingincome.
Toestimatethefairvalueofservicingrights,theCompanyconsidersmarketpricesforsimilarassets
andthepresentvalueofexpectedfuturecashflowsassociatedwiththeservicingrightscalculatedusing

assumptionsthatmarketparticipantswoulduseinestimatingfutureservicingincomeandexpense.Such

assumptionsincludeestimatesofthecostofservicingloans,loandefaultrates,anappropriatediscountrate,

andprepaymentspeeds.Forpurposesofevaluatingandmeasuringimpairmentofcapitalizedservicing

rights,theCompanystratifiessuchassetsbasedonthepredominantriskcharacteristicsoftheunderlying

financialinstrumentsthatareexpectedtohavethemostimpactonprojectedprepayments,costofservicing

andotherfactorsaffectingfuturecashflowsassociatedwiththeservicingrights.Suchfactorsmayinclude

financialassetorloantype,noterateandterm.Theamountofimpairmentrecognizedistheamountby

whichthecarryingvalueofthecapitalizedservicingrightsforastratumexceedsestimatedfairvalue.

Impairmentisrecognizedthroughavaluationallowance.
105Salesandsecuritizationsoffinancialassets
TransfersoffinancialassetsforwhichtheCompanyhassurrenderedcontrolofthefinancialassetsare

accountedforassales.InterestsinasaleoffinancialassetsthatcontinuetobeheldbytheCompany,

includingservicingrights,aremeasuredatfairvalue.Thefairvaluesofretaineddebtsecuritiesaregenerally

determinedthroughreferencetoindependentpricinginformation.Thefairvaluesofretainedservicing

rightsandanyotherretainedinterestsaredeterminedbasedonthepresentvalueofexpectedfuturecash

flowsassociatedwiththoseinterestsandbyreferencetomarketpricesforsimilarassets.
Securitizationstructurestypicallyrequiretheuseofspecial-purposetruststhatareconsidered
variableinterestentities.Avariableinterestentityisincludedintheconsolidatedfinancialstatementsifthe

Companyhasthepowertodirecttheactivitiesthatmostsignificantlyimpactthevariableinterestentity™s

economicperformanceandhastheobligationtoabsorblossesortherighttoreceivebenefitsofthevariable

interestentitythatcouldpotentiallybesignificanttothatentity.
Goodwillandcoredepositandotherintangibleassets
Goodwillrepresentstheexcessofthecostofanacquiredentityoverthefairvalueoftheidentifiablenet

assetsacquired.Goodwillisnotamortized,butratheristestedforimpairmentatleastannuallyatthe

reportingunitlevel,whichiseitheratthesameleveloronelevelbelowanoperatingsegment.Other

acquiredintangibleassetswithfinitelives,suchascoredepositintangibles,areinitiallyrecordedatestimated

fairvalueandareamortizedovertheirestimatedlives.Coredepositandotherintangibleassetsaregenerally

amortizedusingacceleratedmethodsoverestimatedusefullivesoffivetotenyears.TheCompany

periodicallyassesseswhethereventsorchangesincircumstancesindicatethatthecarryingamountsofcore

depositandotherintangibleassetsmaybeimpaired.
Derivativefinancialinstruments
TheCompanyaccountsforderivativefinancialinstrumentsatfairvalue.Ifcertainconditionsaremet,a

derivativemaybespecificallydesignatedas(a)ahedgeoftheexposuretochangesinthefairvalueofa

recognizedassetorliabilityoranunrecognizedfirmcommitment,(b)ahedgeoftheexposuretovariable

cashflowsofaforecastedtransactionor(c)ahedgeoftheforeigncurrencyexposureofanetinvestmentina

foreignoperation,anunrecognizedfirmcommitment,anavailable-for-salesecurity,oraforeigncurrency

denominatedforecastedtransaction.
TheCompanyutilizesinterestrateswapagreementsaspartofthemanagementofinterestrateriskto
modifytherepricingcharacteristicsofcertainportionsofitsportfoliosofearningassetsandinterest-bearing

liabilities.Forsuchagreements,amountsreceivableorpayablearerecognizedasaccruedunderthetermsof

theagreementandthenetdifferentialisrecordedasanadjustmenttointerestincomeorexpenseofthe

relatedassetorliability.Interestrateswapagreementsmaybedesignatedaseitherfairvaluehedgesorcash

flowhedges.Inafairvaluehedge,thefairvaluesoftheinterestrateswapagreementsandchangesinthefair

valuesofthehedgeditemsarerecordedintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheetwiththe

correspondinggainorlossrecognizedincurrentearnings.Thedifferencebetweenchangesinthefairvalues

ofinterestrateswapagreementsandthehedgeditemsrepresentshedgeineffectivenessandisrecordedin

ﬁotherrevenuesfromoperationsﬂintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.Inacashflowhedge,the

effectiveportionofthederivative™sunrealizedgainorlossisinitiallyrecordedasacomponentofother

comprehensiveincomeandsubsequentlyreclassifiedintoearningswhentheforecastedtransactionaffects

earnings.Theineffectiveportionoftheunrealizedgainorlossisreportedinﬁotherrevenuesfrom

operationsﬂimmediately.
TheCompanyutilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloanstohedgetheexposuretochangesinthe
fairvalueofrealestateloansheldforsale.Commitmentstooriginaterealestateloanstobeheldforsaleand

commitmentstosellrealestateloansaregenerallyrecordedintheconsolidatedbalancesheetatestimated

fairmarketvalue.
Derivativeinstrumentsnotrelatedtomortgagebankingactivities,includingfinancialfutures
commitmentsandinterestrateswapagreements,thatdonotsatisfythehedgeaccountingrequirementsare

recordedatfairvalueandaregenerallyclassifiedastradingaccountassetsorliabilitieswithresultant

changesinfairvaluebeingrecognizedinﬁtradingaccountandforeignexchangegainsﬂintheconsolidated

statementofincome.
106Stock-basedcompensation
Stock-basedcompensationexpenseisrecognizedoverthevestingperiodofthestock-basedgrantbasedon

theestimatedgrantdatevalueofthestock-basedcompensationthatisexpectedtovest,exceptthatthe

recognitionofcompensationcostsisacceleratedforstock-basedawardsgrantedtoretirement-eligible

employeesandemployeeswhowillbecomeretirement-eligiblepriortofullvestingoftheawardbecausethe

Company™sincentivecompensationplanallowsforvestingatthetimeanemployeeretires.
Incometaxes
Deferredtaxassetsandliabilitiesarerecognizedforthefuturetaxeffectsattributabletodifferencesbetween

thefinancialstatementvalueofexistingassetsandliabilitiesandtheirrespectivetaxbasesand

carryforwards.Deferredtaxassetsandliabilitiesaremeasuredusingenactedtaxratesandlaws.
TheCompanyevaluatesuncertaintaxpositionsusingthetwo-stepprocessrequiredbyGAAP.The
firststeprequiresadeterminationofwhetheritismorelikelythannotthatataxpositionwillbesustained

uponexamination,includingresolutionofanyrelatedappealsorlitigationprocesses,basedonthetechnical

meritsoftheposition.Underthesecondstep,ataxpositionthatmeetsthemore-likely-than-not

recognitionthresholdismeasuredatthelargestamountofbenefitthatisgreaterthanfiftypercentlikelyof

beingrealizeduponultimatesettlement.
Earningspercommonshare
Basicearningspercommonshareexcludedilutionandarecomputedbydividingincomeavailableto

commonshareholdersbytheweighted-averagenumberofcommonsharesoutstanding(exclusiveofshares

representedbytheunvestedportionofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunitgrants)andcommonshares

issuableunderdeferredcompensationarrangementsduringtheperiod.Dilutedearningspercommonshare

reflectsharesrepresentedbytheunvestedportionofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunitgrantsandthe

potentialdilutionthatcouldoccurifsecuritiesorothercontractstoissuecommonstockwereexercisedor

convertedintocommonstockorresultedintheissuanceofcommonstockthatthensharedinearnings.

Proceedsassumedtohavebeenreceivedonsuchexerciseorconversionareassumedtobeusedtopurchase

sharesofM&Tcommonstockattheaveragemarketpriceduringtheperiod,asrequiredbytheﬁtreasury

stockmethodﬂofaccounting.
GAAPrequiresthatunvestedshare-basedpaymentawardsthatcontainnonforfeitablerightsto
dividendsordividendequivalents(whetherpaidorunpaid)shallbeconsideredparticipatingsecuritiesand

shallbeincludedinthecomputationofearningspercommonsharepursuanttothetwo-classmethod.The

Companyhasissuedstock-basedcompensationawardsintheformofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstock

unitsthatcontainsuchrightsand,accordingly,theCompany™searningspercommonsharearecalculated

usingthetwo-classmethod.
Treasurystock
RepurchasesofsharesofM&Tcommonstockarerecordedatcostasareductionofshareholders™equity.

Reissuancesofsharesoftreasurystockarerecordedataveragecost.
2.Acquisitions
OnAugust27,2012,M&TannouncedthatithadenteredintoadefinitiveagreementwithHudsonCity

Bancorp,Inc.(ﬁHudsonCityﬂ),headquarteredinParamus,NewJersey,underwhichHudsonCitywouldbe

acquiredbyM&T.Pursuanttothetermsoftheagreement,HudsonCityshareholderswillreceive

considerationforeachcommonshareofHudsonCityinanamountvaluedat.08403ofanM&Tsharein

theformofeitherM&Tcommonstockorcash,basedontheelectionofeachHudsonCityshareholder,

subjecttoprorationasspecifiedinthemergeragreement(whichprovidesforanaggregatesplitoftotal

considerationof60%commonstockofM&Tand40%cash).AsofDecember31,2014totalconsideration

tobepaidwasvaluedatapproximately$5.4billion.
AtDecember31,2014,HudsonCityhad$36.6billionofassets,including$21.7billionofloansand
$7.9billionofinvestmentsecurities,and$31.8billionofliabilities,including$19.4billionofdeposits.The

mergerhasreceivedtheapprovalofthecommonshareholdersofM&TandHudsonCity.However,the

mergerissubjecttoanumberofotherconditions,includingregulatoryapprovals.
OnJune17,2013,M&TandManufacturersandTradersTrustCompany(ﬁM&TBankﬂ),M&T™s
principalbankingsubsidiary,enteredintoawrittenagreementwiththeFederalReserveBankofNewYork
107(ﬁFederalReserveBankﬂ).Underthetermsoftheagreement,M&TandM&TBankarerequiredtosubmit
totheFederalReserveBankarevisedcomplianceriskmanagementprogramdesignedtoensurecompliance

withtheBankSecrecyActandanti-money-launderinglawsandregulationsandtotakecertainothersteps

toenhancetheircompliancepractices.TheCompanycommencedamajorinitiative,includingthehiringof

outsideconsultingfirms,intendedtofullyaddresstheFederalReserveBank™sconcerns.Inviewofthe

timeframerequiredtoimplementthisinitiative,demonstrateitsefficacytothesatisfactionoftheFederal

ReserveBankandotherwisemeetanyotherregulatoryrequirementsthatmaybeimposedinconnection

withthesematters,M&TandHudsonCityhaveextendedthedateafterwhicheitherpartymayelectto

terminatethemergeragreementifthemergerhasnotyetbeencompletedtoApril30,2015.Nevertheless,

therecanbenoassurancesthatthemergerwillbecompletedbythatdate.
TheCompanyincurredmerger-relatedexpensesin2013associatedwiththependingHudsonCity
acquisitionandin2012associatedwiththeMay16,2011acquisitionofWilmingtonTrustCorporation

(ﬁWilmingtonTrustﬂ)relatedtoactualorplannedsystemsconversionsandothercostsofintegratingand

conformingacquiredoperationswithandintotheCompany.Thoseexpensesconsistedlargelyof

professionalservicesandothertemporaryhelpfeesassociatedwiththeactualorplannedconversionof

systemsand/orintegrationofoperations;costsrelatedtobranchandofficeconsolidations;costsrelatedto

terminationofexistingcontractualarrangementsforvariousservices;initialmarketingandpromotion

expensesdesignedtointroduceM&TBanktoitsnewcustomers;severance(forformeremployeesof

WilmingtonTrust)andincentivecompensationcosts;travelcosts;andprinting,postage,suppliesandother

costsofplanningfororcompletingthetransactionsandcommencingoperationsinnewmarketsand

offices.Therewerenomerger-relatedexpensesduring2014.Asummaryofmerger-relatedexpenses
includedintheconsolidatedstatementofincomefortheyearsendedDecember31,2013and2012follows:
20132012(Inthousands)
Salariesandemployeebenefits
...............................................$836
$4,997Equipmentandnetoccupancy
...............................................69015
Printing,postageandsupplies
...............................................1,825Š
Othercostsofoperations
...................................................9,0134,867
$12,364$9,879
1083.Investmentsecurities
Theamortizedcostandestimatedfairvalueofinvestmentsecuritieswereasfollows:
AmortizedCostGrossUnrealizedGainsGrossUnrealizedLossesEstimatedFairValue
(Inthousands)
December31,2014
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:

U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
.............................$
161,408$544$5$161,947
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
...................8,027224538,198
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...........................8,507,571223,8893378,731,123
Privatelyissued
..........................................10423103
Collateralizeddebtobligations
................................30,07321,2761,03350,316
Otherdebtsecurities
........................................138,2401,89618,648121,488
Equitysecurities
............................................73,90111,0201,16483,757
8,919,324258,85121,2439,156,932
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity:
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
...................148,9612,551189151,323
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...........................3,149,32078,4857,0003,220,805
Privatelyissued
..........................................201,7331,14344,576158,300
Otherdebtsecurities
........................................7,854ŠŠ7,854
3,507,86882,17951,7653,538,282
Othersecurities
............................................328,742ŠŠ328,742
Total.....................................................$12,755,934$341,030$73,008$13,023,956
December31,2013
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:

U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
.............................$
37,396$382$2$37,776
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
...................10,484333610,811
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...........................4,123,43561,00119,3504,165,086
Privatelyissued
..........................................1,46838751,850
Collateralizeddebtobligations
................................42,27421,66685763,083
Otherdebtsecurities
........................................137,8281,72219,465120,085
Equitysecurities
............................................91,48041,842227133,095
4,444,365127,33339,9124,531,786
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity:
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
...................169,6843,744135173,293
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...........................3,567,90516,16065,1493,518,916
Privatelyissued
..........................................219,628Š60,623159,005
Otherdebtsecurities
........................................8,913ŠŠ8,913
3,966,13019,904125,9073,860,127
Othersecurities
............................................298,581ŠŠ298,581
Total.....................................................$
8,709,076$147,237$165,819$8,690,494
109Noinvestmentinsecuritiesofasinglenon-U.S.Governmentorgovernmentagencyissuerexceeded
tenpercentofshareholders™equityatDecember31,2014.
AsofDecember31,2014,thelatestavailableinvestmentratingsofallobligationsofstatesand
politicalsubdivisions,privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities,collateralizeddebtobligationsandother

debtsecuritieswere:
AmortizedCostEstimatedFairValue
AverageCreditRatingofFairValueAmount
AorBetter
BBBBBBorLess
NotRated
(Inthousands)
Obligationsofstatesandpolitical
subdivisions.....................$156,988$159,521$137,606$Š$Š$Š$21,915
Privatelyissuedmortgage-backed
securities........................201,837158,40348,36819Š109,94967
Collateralizeddebtobligations
........30,07350,3166,6295,4881,27336,926Š
Otherdebtsecurities
................146,094129,34212,35258,48129,02820,4009,081
Total.............................$534,992$497,582$204,955$63,988$30,301$167,275$31,063
Theamortizedcostandestimatedfairvalueofcollateralizedmortgageobligationsincludedin
mortgage-backedsecuritieswereasfollows:
December31
20142013(Inthousands)
Collateralizedmortgageobligations:
Amortizedcost
.......................................................$209,107$231,040
Estimatedfairvalue
...................................................165,860171,100
Grossrealizedgainsfromsalesofinvestmentsecuritieswere$116,490,000in2013.During2013,the
CompanysolditsholdingsofVisaClassBsharesforagainof$89,545,000anditsholdingsofMasterCard

ClassBsharesforagainof$13,208,000.Grossrealizedlossesoninvestmentsecuritieswere$60,033,000in

2013.TheCompanysoldsubstantiallyallofitsprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesheldinthe

available-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesportfolioduring2013.Intotal,$1.0billionofsuchsecuritieswere

soldforanetlossofapproximately$46,302,000.Grossrealizedgainsandlossesfromsalesofinvestment

securitieswerenotsignificantin2014or2012.
TheCompanyrecognized$10millionand$48millionofpre-taxother-than-temporaryimpairment
lossesrelatedtoprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesin2013and2012,respectively.Theimpairment

chargeswererecognizedinlightofdeteriorationofrealestatevaluesandariseindelinquenciesandcharge-

offsofunderlyingmortgageloanscollateralizingthosesecurities.Theother-than-temporaryimpairment

lossesrepresentedmanagement™sestimateofcreditlossesinherentinthedebtsecuritiesconsidering

projectedcashflowsusingassumptionsfordelinquencyrates,lossseverities,andotherestimatesoffuture

collateralperformance.Therewerenoother-than-temporaryimpairmentlossesin2014.
110AtDecember31,2014,theamortizedcostandestimatedfairvalueofdebtsecuritiesbycontractual
maturitywereasfollows:
AmortizedCostEstimatedFairValue
(Inthousands)
Debtsecuritiesavailableforsale:
Dueinoneyearorless
.................................................$
7,412$7,468
Dueafteroneyearthroughfiveyears
.....................................164,412165,340
Dueafterfiveyearsthroughtenyears
.....................................3,5243,577
Dueaftertenyears
....................................................162,400165,564
337,748341,949
Mortgage-backedsecuritiesavailableforsale
...............................8,507,6758,731,226
$8,845,423$9,073,175
Debtsecuritiesheldtomaturity:
Dueinoneyearorless
.................................................$
23,107$23,254
Dueafteroneyearthroughfiveyears
.....................................84,11285,457
Dueafterfiveyearsthroughtenyears
.....................................41,74242,612
Dueaftertenyears
....................................................7,8547,854
156,815159,177
Mortgage-backedsecuritiesheldtomaturity
...............................3,351,0533,379,105
$3,507,868$3,538,282
111AsummaryofinvestmentsecuritiesthatasofDecember31,2014and2013hadbeeninacontinuous
unrealizedlosspositionforlessthantwelvemonthsandthosethathadbeeninacontinuousunrealizedloss

positionfortwelvemonthsorlongerfollows:
LessThan12Months
12MonthsorMore
FairValue
UnrealizedLossesFairValue
UnrealizedLosses(Inthousands)
December31,2014
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:

U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
.............................$
6,505$(5)$Š$Š
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
...................1,785(52)121(1)
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...........................39,001(186)5,555(151)
Privatelyissued
..........................................ŠŠ65(3)
Collateralizeddebtobligations
................................2,108(696)5,512(337)
Otherdebtsecurities
........................................14,017(556)92,661(18,092)
Equitysecurities
...........................................2,138(1,164)ŠŠ
65,554(2,659)103,914(18,584)
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity:
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
...................29,886(184)268(5)
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...........................137,413(361)446,780(6,639)
Privatelyissued
..........................................ŠŠ
127,512(44,576)
167,299(545)574,560(51,220)
Total....................................................$
232,853$(3,204)$678,474$(69,804)
December31,2013
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:

U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
.............................$745$(2)$Š$Š
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
...................ŠŠ558(6)
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...........................1,697,094(19,225)5,815(125)
Privatelyissued
..........................................ŠŠ98(5)
Collateralizeddebtobligations
................................ŠŠ
6,257(857)
Otherdebtsecurities
........................................1,428(4)103,602(19,461)
Equitysecurities
...........................................159
(227)ŠŠ
1,699,426(19,458)116,330(20,454)
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity:
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
...................13,517(120)1,558(15)
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...........................2,629,950(65,149)ŠŠ
Privatelyissued
..........................................ŠŠ
159,005(60,623)
2,643,467(65,269)160,563(60,638)
Total....................................................$4,342,893$(84,727)$276,893$(81,092)
TheCompanyowned296individualinvestmentsecuritieswithaggregategrossunrealizedlossesof
$73millionatDecember31,2014.Basedonareviewofeachofthesecuritiesintheinvestmentsecurities

portfolioatDecember31,2014,theCompanyconcludedthatitexpectedtorecovertheamortizedcostbasis
112ofitsinvestment.AsofDecember31,2014,theCompanydoesnotintendtosellnorisitanticipatedthatit
wouldberequiredtosellanyofitsimpairedinvestmentsecuritiesataloss.AtDecember31,2014,the

Companyhasnotidentifiedeventsorchangesincircumstanceswhichmayhaveasignificantadverseeffect

onthefairvalueofthe$329millionofcostmethodinvestmentsecurities.
AtDecember31,2014,investmentsecuritieswithacarryingvalueof$3,825,003,000,including
$2,905,457,000ofinvestmentsecuritiesavailableforsale,werepledgedtosecureborrowingsfromvarious

FHLBs,repurchaseagreements,governmentaldeposits,interestrateswapagreementsandavailablelinesof

creditasdescribedinnote9.
InvestmentsecuritiespledgedbytheCompanytosecureobligationswherebythesecuredpartyis
permittedbycontractorcustomtosellorrepledgesuchcollateraltotaled$1,631,267,000atDecember31,

2014.ThepledgedsecuritiesincludedsecuritiesoftheU.S.Treasuryandfederalagenciesandmortgage-

backedsecurities.
4.Loansandleases
Totalloansandleasesoutstandingwerecomprisedofthefollowing:
December31
20142013(Inthousands)
LoansCommercial,financial,etc.
...........................................$18,280,049$17,477,238
Realestate:
Residential......................................................8,636,7948,911,554
Commercial.....................................................22,614,17421,799,886
Construction.....................................................5,061,2694,457,650
Consumer.........................................................10,969,87910,280,527
Totalloans
......................................................65,562,16562,926,855
LeasesCommercial.....................................................1,337,2041,398,928
Totalloansandleases
................................................66,899,36964,325,783
Less:unearneddiscount
..............................................(230,413)(252,624)
Totalloansandleases,netofunearneddiscount
..........................$66,668,956$64,073,159
One-to-fourfamilyresidentialmortgageloansheldforsalewere$435millionatDecember31,2014
and$401millionatDecember31,2013.Commercialrealestateloansheldforsalewere$308millionat

December31,2014and$68millionatDecember31,2013.
During2013,theCompanysecuritizedapproximately$1.3billionofone-to-fourfamilyresidential
realestateloanspreviouslyheldintheCompany™sloanportfoliointoguaranteedmortgage-backed

securitieswiththeGovernmentNationalMortgageAssociation(ﬁGinnieMaeﬂ)andrecognizedgainsof

$42,382,000.Inaddition,theCompanysecuritizedandsoldin2013approximately$1.4billionof

automobileloansheldinitsloanportfolio,resultinginagainof$20,683,000.
AsofDecember31,2014,approximately$2.4billionofcommercialrealestateloanbalancesserviced
forothershadbeensoldwithrecourseinconjunctionwiththeCompany™sparticipationintheFannieMae

DelegatedUnderwritingandServicing(ﬁDUSﬂ)program.AtDecember31,2014,theCompanyestimated

thattherecourseobligationsdescribedabovewerenotmaterialtotheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancial

position.Therehavebeennomateriallossesincurredasaresultofthosecreditrecoursearrangements.
Inadditiontorecourseobligations,asdescribedinnote21,theCompanyiscontractuallyobligated
torepurchasepreviouslysoldresidentialrealestateloansthatdonotultimatelymeetinvestorsalecriteria

relatedtounderwritingproceduresorloandocumentation.Whenrequiredtodoso,theCompanymay

reimburseloanpurchasersforlossesincurredormayrepurchasecertainloans.Chargesincurredforsuch

obligation,whicharerecordedasareductionofmortgagebankingrevenues,were$4million,$17million

and$28millionin2014,2013and2012,respectively.
113Theoutstandingprincipalbalanceandthecarryingamountofacquiredloansthatwererecordedat
fairvalueattheacquisitiondatethatisincludedintheconsolidatedbalancesheetwereasfollows:
December31
20142013(Inthousands)
Outstandingprincipalbalance
.........................................$3,070,268$4,656,811
Carryingamount:
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
...................................247,820580,685
Commercialrealestate
.............................................961,8281,541,368
Residentialrealestate
..............................................453,360576,473
Consumer.......................................................933,5371,308,926
$2,596,545$4,007,452
Purchasedimpairedloansincludedinthetableabovetotaled$198millionatDecember31,2014and
$331millionatDecember31,2013,representinglessthan1%oftheCompany™sassetsasofeachdate.A

summaryofchangesintheaccretableyieldforacquiredloansfortheyearsendedDecember31,2014,2013

and2012follows:
ForYearEndedDecember31,
201420132012PurchasedOtherPurchasedOtherPurchasedOther
ImpairedAcquiredImpairedAcquiredImpairedAcquired(Inthousands)
Balanceatbeginningofperiod..$37,230$538,633$42,252$638,272$30,805$807,960
Interestincome
..............(21,263)(178,670)(36,727)(247,295)(40,551)(295,654)
Reclassificationsfrom
nonaccretablebalance,net...60,55124,90731,705149,59551,998148,490
Other(a)...................Š
12,509Š(1,939)Š(22,524)
Balanceatendofperiod
.......$
76,518$397,379$37,230$538,633$42,252$638,272
(a)Otherchangesinexpectedcashflowsincludingchangesininterestratesandprepaymentassumptions.
114Asummaryofcurrent,pastdueandnonaccrualloansasofDecember31,2014and2013follows:
90DaysorMorePast
DueandAccruing
Current30-89Days
PastDue
Non-acquiredAcquired(a)PurchasedImpaired(b)NonaccrualTotal(Inthousands)
December31,2014
Commercial,financial,
leasing,etc.
.............$19,228,265$37,246$1,805$6,231$10,300$177,445$19,461,292
Realestate:
Commercial............22,208,491118,70422,17014,66251,312141,60022,556,939
Residentialbuilderand
developer............1,273,60711,8274929,35098,34771,5171,465,140
Othercommercial
construction..........3,484,93217,678ŠŠ17,18125,6993,545,490
Residential.............7,640,368226,932216,48935,72618,223180,2758,318,013
ResidentialAlt-A
........249,81011,774ŠŠŠ77,704339,288
Consumer:Homeequitylinesand
loans................5,859,37842,945Š27,8962,37489,2916,021,884
Automobile............1,931,13830,500Š133Š17,5781,979,349
Other.................2,909,79133,2954,06416,369Š18,0422,981,561
Total....................$64,785,780$530,901$245,020$110,367$197,737$799,151$66,668,956
December31,2013
Commercial,financial,
leasing,etc.
.............$18,489,474$77,538$4,981$6,778$15,706$110,739$18,705,216
Realestate:
Commercial............21,236,071145,74963,35335,60388,034173,04821,741,858
Residentialbuilderand
developer............1,025,9848,4861417,930137,54496,4271,276,512
Othercommercial
construction..........2,986,59842,234Š8,03157,70735,2683,129,838
Residential.............7,630,368295,131294,64943,70029,184252,8058,545,837
ResidentialAlt-A
........283,25318,009ŠŠŠ81,122382,384
Consumer:Homeequitylinesand
loans................5,972,36540,537Š27,7542,61778,5166,121,789
Automobile............1,314,24629,144Š366Š21,1441,364,900
Other.................2,726,52247,8305,386ŠŠ25,0872,804,825
Total....................$61,664,881$704,658$368,510$130,162$330,792$874,156$64,073,159
(a)Acquiredloansthatwererecordedatfairvalueatacquisitiondate.Thiscategorydoesnotincludepurchased
impairedloansthatarepresentedseparately.
(b)Accruingloansthatwereimpairedatacquisitiondateandwererecordedatfairvalue.
Ifnonaccrualandrenegotiatedloanshadbeenaccruinginterestattheiroriginallycontractedterms,
interestincomeonsuchloanswouldhaveamountedto$58,314,000in2014,$62,010,000in2013and

$69,054,000in2012.Theactualamountsincludedininterestincomeduring2014,2013and2012onsuch

loanswere$28,492,000,$31,987,000and$30,484,000,respectively.
115Duringthenormalcourseofbusiness,theCompanymodifiesloanstomaximizerecoveryefforts.If
theborrowerisexperiencingfinancialdifficultyandaconcessionisgranted,theCompanyconsiderssuch

modificationsastroubleddebtrestructuringsandclassifiesthoseloansaseithernonaccrualloansor

renegotiatedloans.ThetypesofconcessionsthattheCompanygrantstypicallyincludeprincipaldeferrals

andinterestrateconcessions,butmayalsoincludeothertypesofconcessions.
ThetablebelowsummarizestheCompany™sloanmodificationactivitiesthatwereconsidered
troubleddebtrestructuringsfortheyearendedDecember31,2014:
RecordedInvestment
FinancialEffectsof
ModificationNumberPre-modifica-tionPost-modifica-tionRecordedInvestment(a)Interest(b)(Dollarsinthousands)
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
Principaldeferral
.................................95$
29,035$23,628$(5,407)$Š
Other..........................................3
29,91231,6041,692Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................7
19,16719,030(137)(20)
Realestate:
CommercialPrincipaldeferral
.................................39
19,07718,997(80)Š
Interestratereduction
.............................1255252(3)
(48)Other..........................................1650Š
(650)Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................7
1,1521,19846(264)
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
Principaldeferral
.................................2
1,6391,639ŠŠ
Othercommercialconstruction
Principaldeferral
.................................4
6,7036,611(92)Š
ResidentialPrincipaldeferral
.................................28
2,7102,905195Š
Interestratereduction
.............................11
1,1461,22276(152)
Other..........................................1188188ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................30
4,2114,28776(483)
ResidentialAlt-A
Principaldeferral
.................................688096383Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................21
3,8063,84640(386)
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans
Principaldeferral
.................................3280280ŠŠ
Interestratereduction
.............................6535535Š
(120)Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................47
5,0315,031Š(560)
AutomobilePrincipaldeferral
.................................208
3,2933,293ŠŠ
Interestratereduction
.............................9152152Š
(12)Other..........................................42255255ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................81
1,1891,189Š(100)
OtherPrincipaldeferral
.................................33245245ŠŠ
Interestratereduction
.............................4293293Š
(63)Other..........................................14545ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................70
2,5022,502Š(761)
Total...............................................760
$134,351$130,190$(4,161)$(2,969)
(a)Financialeffectsimpactingtherecordedinvestmentincludedprincipalpaymentsoradvances,charge-offsand
capitalizedescrowarrearages.
(b)Representsthepresentvalueofinterestrateconcessionsdiscountedattheeffectiverateoftheoriginalloan.
116ThetablebelowsummarizestheCompany™sloanmodificationactivitiesthatwereconsidered
troubleddebtrestructuringsfortheyearendedDecember31,2013:
RecordedInvestment
FinancialEffectsof
ModificationNumberPre-modifica-tionPost-modifica-tionRecordedInvestment(a)Interest(b)(Dollarsinthousands)
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
Principaldeferral
.................................79$
16,389$16,002$(387)$Š
Interestratereduction
.............................1104335231
(54)Other..........................................4
50,43350,924491Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................11
6,2295,578(651)(458)
Realestate:
CommercialPrincipaldeferral
.................................27
40,63940,464(175)Š
Other..........................................244947526Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................9
2,6493,040391(250)
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
Principaldeferral
.................................18
21,42320,577(846)Š
Other..........................................1
4,0393,888(151)Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................3
15,58015,514(66)(535)
Othercommercialconstruction
Principaldeferral
.................................3590521
(69)Š
ResidentialPrincipaldeferral
.................................32
3,5563,821265Š
Other..........................................1195195ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................61
73,94070,854(3,086)(924)
ResidentialAlt-A
Principaldeferral
.................................10
1,9001,880(20)Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................19
2,8263,148322(790)
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans
Principaldeferral
.................................108598612Š
Interestratereduction
.............................19999Š(8)
Other..........................................1106106ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................28
2,1902,190Š(270)
AutomobilePrincipaldeferral
.................................460
6,1486,148ŠŠ
Interestratereduction
.............................15235235Š
(22)Other..........................................78339339ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................225
2,5522,552Š(191)
OtherPrincipaldeferral
.................................36332332ŠŠ
Interestratereduction
.............................11212Š(2)
Other..........................................21414ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
....................120
4,2484,248Š(1,187)
Total...............................................1,258$258,075$254,352$(3,723)$(4,691)
(a)Financialeffectsimpactingtherecordedinvestmentincludedprincipalpaymentsoradvances,charge-offsand
capitalizedescrowarrearages.
(b)Representsthepresentvalueofinterestrateconcessionsdiscountedattheeffectiverateoftheoriginalloan.
117ThetablebelowsummarizestheCompany™sloanmodificationactivitiesthatwereconsidered
troubleddebtrestructuringsfortheyearendedDecember31,2012:
RecordedInvestment
FinancialEffectsof
ModificationNumberPre-modifica-tionPost-modifica-tionRecordedInvestment(a)Interest(b)(Dollarsinthousands)
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
Principaldeferral
..............................61$
23,888$22,456$(1,432)$Š
Other.......................................3
2,9673,05285Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.................5628740112
(102)Realestate:
CommercialPrincipaldeferral
..............................24
22,85523,059204Š
Interestratereduction
.........................266570843
(129)Combinationofconcessiontypes
.................7
1,6371,65619(351)
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
Principaldeferral
..............................23
36,86834,740(2,128)Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.................7
37,60236,148(1,454)Š
Othercommercialconstruction
Principaldeferral
..............................6
81,06279,312(1,750)Š
ResidentialPrincipaldeferral
..............................36
4,6434,808165Š
Interestratereduction
.........................1109109Š
(20)Combinationofconcessiontypes
.................62
12,88613,146260(657)
ResidentialAlt-A
Principaldeferral
..............................796898921Š
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.................38
8,5258,717192(159)
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans
Principaldeferral
..............................15
1,2851,285ŠŠ
Interestratereduction
.........................1144144Š(6)
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.................29
2,3322,332Š(368)
AutomobilePrincipaldeferral
..............................618
8,3478,347ŠŠ
Interestratereduction
.........................22328328Š
(24)Other.......................................67300300ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.................375
5,8575,857Š(684)
OtherPrincipaldeferral
..............................80
1,2011,201ŠŠ
Interestratereduction
.........................22515515Š
(85)Other.......................................135454ŠŠ
Combinationofconcessiontypes
.................84
1,0151,015Š(268)
Total.....................................1,608$256,681$251,018$(5,663)$(2,853)
(a)Financialeffectsimpactingtherecordedinvestmentincludedprincipalpaymentsoradvances,charge-offsand
capitalizedescrowarrearages.
(b)Representsthepresentvalueofinterestrateconcessionsdiscountedattheeffectiverateoftheoriginalloan.
Troubleddebtrestructuringsareconsideredtobeimpairedloansandforpurposesofestablishingthe
allowanceforcreditlossesareevaluatedforimpairmentgivingconsiderationtotheimpactofthemodified

loantermsonthepresentvalueoftheloan™sexpectedcashflows.Impairmentoftroubleddebt

restructuringsthathavesubsequentlydefaultedmayalsobemeasuredbasedontheloan™sobservablemarket

priceorthefairvalueofcollateraliftheloaniscollateral-dependent.Charge-offsmayalsoberecognizedon
118troubleddebtrestructuringsthathavesubsequentlydefaulted.Loansthatweremodifiedastroubleddebt
restructuringsduringthetwelvemonthsendedDecember31,2014,2013and2012andforwhichtherewas

asubsequentpaymentdefaultduringtherespectiveperiodwerenotmaterial.
BorrowingsbydirectorsandcertainofficersofM&Tanditsbankingsubsidiaries,andbyassociates
ofsuchpersons,exclusiveofloansaggregatinglessthan$120,000,amountedto$49,799,000and

$135,512,000atDecember31,2014and2013,respectively.During2014,newborrowingsbysuchpersons

amountedto$12,327,000(includinganyborrowingsofnewdirectorsorofficersthatwereoutstandingat

thetimeoftheirelection)andrepaymentsandotherreductions(includingreductionsresultingfrom

retirements)were$98,040,000.
AtDecember31,2014,approximately$10.4billionofcommercialloansandleases,$9.7billionof
commercialrealestateloans,$5.3billionofone-to-fourfamilyresidentialrealestateloans,$4.3billionof

homeequityloansandlinesofcreditand$2.9billionofotherconsumerloanswerepledgedtosecure

outstandingborrowingsfromtheFHLBofNewYorkandavailablelinesofcreditasdescribedinnote9.
TheCompany™sloanandleaseportfolioincludescommercialleasefinancingreceivablesconsistingof
directfinancingandleveragedleasesformachineryandequipment,railroadequipment,commercialtrucks

andtrailers,andaircraft.Asummaryofleasefinancingreceivablesfollows:
December31
20142013(Inthousands)
Commercialleases:
Directfinancings:
Leasepaymentsreceivable
.........................................$1,022,133$1,052,214
Estimatedresidualvalueofleasedassets
.............................79,52585,595
Unearnedincome
...............................................(103,777)(114,101)
Investmentindirectfinancings
..................................997,8811,023,708
Leveragedleases:
Leasepaymentsreceivable
.........................................102,457127,821
Estimatedresidualvalueofleasedassets
.............................133,089133,298
Unearnedincome
...............................................(44,288)(47,188)
Investmentinleveragedleases
...................................191,258213,931
Totalinvestmentinleases.
............................................$1,189,139$1,237,639
Deferredtaxespayablearisingfromleveragedleases
........................$
169,101$172,296
IncludedwithintheestimatedresidualvalueofleasedassetsatDecember31,2014and2013were$48
millionand$54million,respectively,inresidualvalueassociatedwithdirectfinancingleasesthatare

guaranteedbythelesseesorothers.
AtDecember31,2014,theminimumfutureleasepaymentstobereceivedfromleasefinancingswereas
follows:(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2015.......................................................................$
268,0862016.......................................................................242,2482017.......................................................................177,5392018.......................................................................127,9852019.......................................................................92,205Lateryears
...................................................................216,527$1,124,5901195.Allowanceforcreditlosses
ChangesintheallowanceforcreditlossesfortheyearsendedDecember31,2014,2013and2012wereas
follows:Commercial,Financial,Leasing,etc.
RealEstate
2014CommercialResidentialConsumerUnallocatedTotal(Inthousands)
Beginningbalance
..........$
273,383$324,978$78,656$164,644$75,015$916,676
Provisionforcreditlosses
....51,410(13,779)(3,974)89,704639124,000
Netcharge-offs
............Charge-offs.............(58,943)(14,058)(21,351)(84,390)Š(178,742)
Recoveries..............22,18810,7868,57916,075Š57,628
Netcharge-offs
............(36,755)(3,272)(12,772)(68,315)Š(121,114)
Endingbalance
............$
288,038$307,927$61,910$186,033$75,654$919,562
2013Beginningbalance
..........$
246,759$337,101$88,807$179,418$73,775$925,860
Provisionforcreditlosses
....124,1802753,14956,1561,240185,000
Allowancerelatedtoloans
soldorsecuritized
........ŠŠŠ
(11,000)Š(11,000)
Netcharge-offs
Charge-offs.............(109,329)(34,595)(23,621)(85,965)Š(253,510)
Recoveries..............11,77322,19710,32126,035Š70,326
Netcharge-offs
............(97,556)(12,398)(13,300)(59,930)Š(183,184)
Endingbalance
............$
273,383$324,978$78,656$164,644$75,015$916,676
2012Beginningbalance
..........$
234,022$367,637$91,915$143,121$71,595$908,290
Provisionforcreditlosses
....42,5105,21134,864119,2352,180204,000
Netcharge-offs
Charge-offs.............(41,148)(41,945)(44,314)(103,348)Š(230,755)
Recoveries..............11,3756,1986,34220,410Š44,325
Netcharge-offs
............(29,773)(35,747)(37,972)(82,938)Š(186,430)
Endingbalance
............$
246,759$337,101$88,807$179,418$73,775$925,860
Despitetheaboveallocation,theallowanceforcreditlossesisgeneralinnatureandisavailableto
absorblossesfromanyloanorleasetype.
Inestablishingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanyestimateslossesattributabletospecific
troubledcreditsidentifiedthroughbothnormalanddetailedorintensifiedcreditreviewprocessesandalso

estimateslossesinherentinotherloansandleasesonacollectivebasis.Forpurposesofdeterminingthelevel

oftheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanyevaluatesitsloanandleaseportfoliobyloantype.The

amountsoflosscomponentsintheCompany™sloanandleaseportfoliosaredeterminedthroughaloanby

loananalysisoflargerbalancecommercialandcommercialrealestateloansthatareinnonaccrualstatus

andbyapplyinglossfactorstogroupsofloanbalancesbasedonloantypeandmanagement™sclassification

ofsuchloansundertheCompany™sloangradingsystem.Measurementofthespecificlosscomponentsis

typicallybasedonexpectedfuturecashflows,collateralvaluesandotherfactorsthatmayimpactthe

borrower™sabilitytopay.Indeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanyutilizesaloangrading

systemwhichisappliedtocommercialandcommercialrealestatecreditsonanindividualloanbasis.Loan

officersareresponsibleforcontinuallyassigninggradestotheseloansbasedonstandardsoutlinedinthe

Company™sCreditPolicy.InternalloangradesarealsomonitoredbytheCompany™sloanreview

departmenttoensureconsistencyandstrictadherencetotheprescribedstandards.Loangradesareassigned
120losscomponentfactorsthatreflecttheCompany™slossestimateforeachgroupofloansandleases.Factors
consideredinassigningloangradesandlosscomponentfactorsincludeborrower-specificinformation

relatedtoexpectedfuturecashflowsandoperatingresults,collateralvalues,geographiclocation,financial

conditionandperformance,paymentstatus,andotherinformation;levelsofandtrendsinportfoliocharge-

offsandrecoveries;levelsofandtrendsinportfoliodelinquenciesandimpairedloans;changesintherisk

profileofspecificportfolios;trendsinvolumeandtermsofloans;effectsofchangesincreditconcentrations;

andobservedtrendsandpracticesinthebankingindustry.Asupdatedappraisalsareobtainedonindividual

loansorothereventsinthemarketplaceindicatethatcollateralvalueshavesignificantlychanged,individual

loangradesareadjustedasappropriate.Changesinotherfactorscitedmayalsoleadtoloangradechangesat

anytime.Exceptforconsumerandresidentialrealestateloansthatareconsideredsmallerbalance

homogenousloansandacquiredloansthatareevaluatedonanaggregatedbasis,theCompanyconsidersa

loantobeimpairedforpurposesofapplyingGAAPwhen,basedoncurrentinformationandevents,itis

probablethattheCompanywillbeunabletocollectallamountsaccordingtothecontractualtermsofthe

loanagreementortheloanisdelinquent90days.Regardlessofloantype,theCompanyconsidersaloanto

beimpairedifitqualifiesasatroubleddebtrestructuring.Modifiedloans,includingsmallerbalance

homogenousloans,thatareconsideredtobetroubleddebtrestructuringsareevaluatedforimpairment

givingconsiderationtotheimpactofthemodifiedloantermsonthepresentvalueoftheloan™sexpected

cashflows.
121Thefollowingtablesprovideinformationwithrespecttoloansandleasesthatwereconsidered
impairedasofDecember31,2014and2013andfortheyearsendedDecember31,2014,2013and2012.
December31,2014
December31,2013
RecordedInvestmentUnpaidPrincipalBalanceRelatedAllowanceRecordedInvestmentUnpaidPrincipalBalanceRelatedAllowance(Inthousands)
Withanallowancerecorded:
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
..............$132,340$165,146$31,779$90,293$112,092$24,614
Realestate:
Commercial...............................83,95596,20914,121113,570132,32519,520
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
.............17,63222,04480533,31155,1224,379
Othercommercialconstruction
...............5,4806,48490086,26090,5154,022
Residential................................88,970107,3434,29696,508114,5217,146
ResidentialAlt-A
...........................101,137114,56511,000111,911124,52814,000
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans
..................19,77120,8066,21313,67214,7963,312
Automobile...............................30,31730,3178,07040,44140,44111,074
Other....................................18,97318,9735,45917,66017,6604,541
498,575581,88782,643603,626702,00092,608
Withnorelatedallowancerecorded:
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
..............73,97881,493Š28,09333,095Š
Realestate:
Commercial...............................66,77778,943Š65,27184,333Š
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
.............58,82096,722Š72,366104,768Š
Othercommercialconstruction
...............20,73841,035Š7,36911,493Š
Residential................................16,81526,750Š84,14495,358Š
ResidentialAlt-A
...........................26,75246,964Š28,35752,211Š
263,880371,907Š285,600381,258Š
Total:Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
..............206,318246,63931,779118,386145,18724,614
Realestate:
Commercial...............................150,732175,15214,121178,841216,65819,520
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
.............76,452118,766805105,677159,8904,379
Othercommercialconstruction
...............26,21847,51990093,629102,0084,022
Residential................................105,785134,0934,296180,652209,8797,146
ResidentialAlt-A
...........................127,889161,52911,000140,268176,73914,000
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans
..................19,77120,8066,21313,67214,7963,312
Automobile...............................30,31730,3178,07040,44140,44111,074
Other....................................18,97318,9735,45917,66017,6604,541
Total.........................................$762,455$953,794$82,643$889,226$1,083,258$92,608
122YearEnded
December31,2014
YearEnded
December31,2013
AverageRecordedInvestmentInterestIncome
RecognizedAverageRecordedInvestmentInterestIncome
RecognizedTotalCashBasisTotalCashBasis(Inthousands)
Commercial,financial,leasing,
etc..........................$181,932$2,251$2,251$155,188$7,197$7,197
Realestate:
Commercial..................184,7734,0294,029197,5334,8524,852
Residentialbuilderand
developer..................91,149142142147,2881,043796
Othercommercial
construction...............62,7341,8931,89396,4755,2485,248
Residential...................126,0059,1806,978183,0596,2034,111
ResidentialAlt-A
..............133,8006,6132,546149,4616,7842,341
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans
.....18,08375024812,811683183
Automobile..................35,1732,25129544,1162,916515
Other.......................18,37869019115,710634208
Total..........................$852,027$27,799$18,573$1,001,641$35,560$25,451
YearEnded
December31,2012
InterestIncome
RecognizedAverageRecordedInvestmentTotalCashBasis(Inthousands)
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc.
...............................$
151,314$2,938$2,938
Realestate:
Commercial...............................................185,1712,8342,834
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
..............................249,1911,5631,102
Othercommercialconstruction
...............................99,6725,0205,020
Residential................................................132,8885,2843,300
ResidentialAlt-A
...........................................171,5467,1752,226
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans
..................................11,322663179
Automobile...............................................51,6503,470724
Other....................................................11,028472197
Total.......................................................$1,063,782$29,419$18,520
Inaccordancewiththepreviouslydescribedpolicies,theCompanyutilizesaloangradingsystemthat
isappliedtoallcommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloans.Loangradesareutilizedtodifferentiate

riskwithintheportfolioandconsidertheexpectationsofdefaultforeachloan.Commercialloansand

commercialrealestateloanswithalowerexpectationofdefaultareassignedoneoftenpossibleﬁpassﬂloan

gradesandaregenerallyascribedlowerlossfactorswhendeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses.Loans

withanelevatedlevelofcreditriskareclassifiedasﬁcriticizedﬂandareascribedahigherlossfactorwhen

determiningtheallowanceforcreditlosses.Criticizedloansmaybeclassifiedasﬁnonaccrualﬂifthe

Companynolongerexpectstocollectallamountsaccordingtothecontractualtermsoftheloanagreement

ortheloanisdelinquent90daysormore.Alllargerbalancecriticizedcommercialloansandcommercial
123realestateloansareindividuallyreviewedbycentralizedloanreviewpersonneleachquartertodetermine
theappropriatenessoftheassignedloangrade,includingwhethertheloanshouldbereportedasaccruingor

nonaccruing.Smallerbalancecriticizedloansareanalyzedbybusinesslineriskmanagementareastoensure

properloangradeclassification.Furthermore,criticizednonaccrualcommercialloansandcommercialreal

estateloansareconsideredimpairedand,asaresult,specificlossallowancesonsuchloansareestablished

withintheallowanceforcreditlossestotheextentappropriateineachindividualinstance.Thefollowing

tablesummarizestheloangradesappliedtothevariousclassesoftheCompany™scommercialloansand

commercialrealestateloans.
RealEstate
Commercial,Financial,Leasing,etc
CommercialResidentialBuilderand
DeveloperOtherCommercialConstruction(Inthousands)
December31,2014
Pass.....................................$18,695,440$21,837,022$1,347,778$3,347,522
Criticizedaccrual
..........................588,407578,31745,845172,269
Criticizednonaccrual
.......................177,445141,60071,51725,699
Total....................................$19,461,292$22,556,939$1,465,140$3,545,490
December31,2013
Pass.....................................$17,894,592$20,972,257$1,107,144$3,040,106
Criticizedaccrual
..........................699,885596,55372,94154,464
Criticizednonaccrual
.......................110,739173,04896,42735,268
Total....................................$18,705,216$21,741,858$1,276,512$3,129,838
Indeterminingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,residentialrealestateloansandconsumerloansare
generallyevaluatedcollectivelyafterconsideringsuchfactorsaspaymentperformanceandrecentloss

experienceandtrends,whicharemainlydrivenbycurrentcollateralvaluesinthemarketplaceaswellasthe

amountofloandefaults.Lossratesonsuchloansaredeterminedbyreferencetorecentcharge-offhistory

andareevaluated(andadjustedifdeemedappropriate)throughconsiderationofotherfactorsincluding

near-termforecastedlossestimatesdevelopedbytheCompany™sCreditDepartment.Inarrivingatsuch

forecasts,theCompanyconsidersthecurrentestimatedfairvalueofitscollateralbasedongeographical

adjustmentsforhomepricedepreciation/appreciationandoverallborrowerrepaymentperformance.With

regardtocollateralvalues,therealizabilityofsuchvaluesbytheCompanycontemplatesrepaymentofany

firstlienpositionpriortorecoveringamountsonasecondlienposition.However,residentialrealestate

loansandoutstandingbalancesofhomeequityloansandlinesofcreditthataremorethan150dayspast

duearegenerallyevaluatedforcollectibilityonaloan-by-loanbasisgivingconsiderationtoestimated

collateralvalues.Thecarryingvalueofresidentialrealestateloansandhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit

forwhichapartialcharge-offhasbeenrecognizedaggregated$63millionand$18million,respectively,at

December31,2014and$58millionand$18million,respectively,atDecember31,2013.Residentialreal

estateloansandhomeequityloansandlinesofcreditthatweremorethan150dayspastduebutdidnot

requireapartialcharge-offbecausethenetrealizablevalueofthecollateralexceededtheoutstanding

customerbalancetotaled$27millionand$28million,respectively,atDecember31,2014and$26million

and$21million,respectively,atDecember31,2013.
TheCompanyalsomeasuresadditionallossesforpurchasedimpairedloanswhenitisprobablethat
theCompanywillbeunabletocollectallcashflowsexpectedatacquisitionplusadditionalcashflows

expectedtobecollectedarisingfromchangesinestimatesafteracquisition.Thedeterminationofthe

allocatedportionoftheallowanceforcreditlossesisverysubjective.Giventhatinherentsubjectivityand

potentialimprecisioninvolvedindeterminingtheallocatedportionoftheallowanceforcreditlosses,the

Companyalsoprovidesaninherentunallocatedportionoftheallowance.Theunallocatedportionofthe

allowanceisintendedtorecognizeprobablelossesthatarenototherwiseidentifiableandincludes

management™ssubjectivedeterminationofamountsnecessarytoprovideforthepossibleuseofimprecise

estimatesindeterminingtheallocatedportionoftheallowance.Therefore,theleveloftheunallocated

portionoftheallowanceisprimarilyreflectiveoftheinherentimprecisioninthevariouscalculationsused
124indeterminingtheallocatedportionoftheallowanceforcreditlosses.Otherfactorsthatcouldalsoleadto
changesintheunallocatedportionincludetheeffectsofexpansionintonewmarketsforwhichthe

Companydoesnothavethesamedegreeoffamiliarityandexperienceregardingportfolioperformancein

changingmarketconditions,theintroductionofnewloanandleaseproducttypes,andotherrisks

associatedwiththeCompany™sloanportfoliothatmaynotbespecificallyidentifiable.
TheallocationoftheallowanceforcreditlossessummarizedonthebasisoftheCompany™s
impairmentmethodologywasasfollows:
Commercial,Financial,Leasing,etc.
RealEstate
CommercialResidentialConsumerTotal(Inthousands)
December31,2014
Individuallyevaluatedforimpairment
......$
31,779$15,490$14,703$19,742$81,714
Collectivelyevaluatedforimpairment
......251,607291,24445,061165,140753,052
Purchasedimpaired
.....................4,6521,1932,1461,1519,142
Allocated.............................$288,038$307,927$61,910$186,033843,908
Unallocated...........................75,654Total.................................$919,562December31,2013
Individuallyevaluatedforimpairment
......$
24,614$27,563$21,127$18,927$92,231
Collectivelyevaluatedforimpairment
......246,096296,78155,864144,210742,951
Purchasedimpaired
.....................2,6736341,6651,5076,479
Allocated.............................$273,383$324,978$78,656$164,644841,661
Unallocated...........................75,015Total.................................$916,676TherecordedinvestmentinloansandleasessummarizedonthebasisoftheCompany™simpairment
methodologywasasfollows:
Commercial,Financial,Leasing,etc.
RealEstate
CommercialResidentialConsumerTotal(Inthousands)
December31,2014
Individuallyevaluatedforimpairment
....$
206,318$252,347$232,398$69,061$760,124
Collectivelyevaluatedforimpairment
....19,244,67427,148,3828,406,68010,911,35965,711,095
Purchasedimpaired
...................10,300166,84018,2232,374197,737
Total...............................$19,461,292$27,567,569$8,657,301$10,982,794$66,668,956
December31,2013
Individuallyevaluatedforimpairment
....$
118,386$376,339$320,360$71,773$886,858
Collectivelyevaluatedforimpairment
....18,571,12425,488,5848,578,67710,217,12462,855,509
Purchasedimpaired
...................15,706283,28529,1842,617330,792
Total...............................$18,705,216$26,148,208$8,928,221$10,291,514$64,073,159
1256.Premisesandequipment
Thedetailofpremisesandequipmentwasasfollows:
December31
20142013(Inthousands)
Land..............................................................$
82,335$84,220
BuildingsŠowned
..................................................406,522402,065
BuildingsŠcapitalleases
.............................................1,1311,131
Leaseholdimprovements
.............................................219,152208,947
FurnitureandequipmentŠowned
.....................................586,429547,824
FurnitureandequipmentŠcapitalleases
................................18,85317,703
1,314,4221,261,890
Less:accumulateddepreciationandamortization
Ownedassets
.....................................................686,372617,228
Capitalleases
.....................................................15,06611,142
701,438628,370
Premisesandequipment,net
..........................................$
612,984$633,520
Netleaseexpenseforalloperatingleasestotaled$104,297,000in2014,$103,297,000in2013and
$102,924,000in2012.Minimumleasepaymentsundernoncancelableoperatingleasesarepresentedin

note21.Minimumleasepaymentsrequiredundercapitalleasesarenotmaterial.
7.Capitalizedservicingassets
Changesincapitalizedservicingassetswereasfollows:
ResidentialMortgageLoans
CommercialMortgageLoans
ForYearEndedDecember31,
201420132012201420132012(Inthousands)
Beginningbalance
.............$126,377$104,855$131,264$72,499$59,978$51,250
Originations.................28,28552,37514,57715,92226,75419,653
Purchases....................289272109730ŠŠ
Recognizedinloansecuritization
transactions................Š13,696
ŠŠŠŠAmortization.................(45,080)(44,821)(41,095)(16,212)(14,233)(10,925)
109,871126,377104,85572,93972,49959,978
Valuationallowance
...........Š
(300)(4,500)ŠŠŠ
Endingbalance,net
...........$109,871$126,077$100,355$72,939$72,499$59,978
OtherTotalForYearEndedDecember31,
201420132012201420132012(Inthousands)
Beginningbalance
.............$
11,225$8,143$15,678$210,101$172,976$198,192
Originations.................ŠŠŠ
44,20779,12934,230
Purchases....................ŠŠŠ
1,019272109
Recognizedinloansecuritization
transactions................Š9,382ŠŠ23,078Š
Amortization.................(7,118)(6,300)(7,535)(68,410)(65,354)(59,555)
4,10711,2258,143186,917210,101172,976
Valuationallowance
...........ŠŠŠŠ(300)(4,500)
Endingbalance,net
...........$
4,107$11,225$8,143$186,917$209,801$168,476
126Residentialmortgageloansservicedforotherswere$64.4billionatDecember31,2014,$69.1billion
atDecember31,2013and$32.1billionatDecember31,2012.Reflectedinresidentialmortgageloans

servicedforotherswereloanssub-servicedforothersof$42.1billion,$46.6billionand$12.5billionat

December31,2014,2013,and2012,respectively.Commercialmortgageloansservicedforotherswere$11.3

billionatDecember31,2014,$11.4billionatDecember31,2013and$10.6billionatDecember31,2012.

Otherloansservicedforothersincludesmall-balancecommercialmortgageloansandautomobileloans

totaling$3.5billion,$4.4billionand$3.8billionatDecember31,2014,2013and2012,respectively.
Changesinthevaluationallowanceforcapitalizedresidentialmortgageservicingassetswerenot
significantin2014,2013or2012.Theestimatedfairvalueofcapitalizedresidentialmortgageloanservicing

assetswasapproximately$228millionatDecember31,2014and$266millionatDecember31,2013.The

fairvalueofcapitalizedresidentialmortgageloanservicingassetswasestimatedusingweighted-average

discountratesof11.9%and9.3%atDecember31,2014and2013,respectively,andcontemporaneous

prepaymentassumptionsthatvarybyloantype.AtDecember31,2014and2013,thediscountrate

representedaweighted-averageoption-adjustedspread(ﬁOASﬂ)of1065basispoints(hundredthsofone

percent)and770basispoints,respectively,overmarketimpliedforwardLondonInterbankOfferedRates

(ﬁLIBORﬂ).Theestimatedfairvalueofcapitalizedresidentialmortgageloanservicingrightsmayvary

significantlyinsubsequentperiodsduetochanginginterestratesandtheeffectthereofonprepayment

speeds.Theestimatedfairvalueofcapitalizedcommercialmortgageloanservicingassetswasapproximately

$87millionand$85millionatDecember31,2014and2013,respectively.An18%discountratewasusedto

estimatethefairvalueofcapitalizedcommercialmortgageloanservicingrightsatDecember31,2014and

2013withnoprepaymentassumptionsbecause,ingeneral,theservicingagreementsallowtheCompanyto

shareincustomerloanprepaymentfeesandtherebyrecovertheremainingcarryingvalueofthecapitalized

servicingrightsassociatedwithsuchloan.TheCompany™sabilitytorealizethecarryingvalueofcapitalized

commercialmortgageservicingrightsismoredependentontheborrowers™abilitiestorepaytheunderlying

loansthanonprepaymentsorchangesininterestrates.
Thekeyeconomicassumptionsusedtodeterminethefairvalueofsignificantportfoliosof
capitalizedservicingrightsatDecember31,2014andthesensitivityofsuchvaluetochangesinthose

assumptionsaresummarizedinthetablethatfollows.Thosecalculatedsensitivitiesarehypotheticaland

actualchangesinthefairvalueofcapitalizedservicingrightsmaydiffersignificantlyfromtheamounts

presentedherein.Theeffectofavariationinaparticularassumptiononthefairvalueoftheservicingrights

iscalculatedwithoutchanginganyotherassumption.Inreality,changesinonefactormayresultinchanges

inanotherwhichmaymagnifyorcounteractthesensitivities.Thechangesinassumptionsarepresumedto

beinstantaneous.
ResidentialCommercialWeighted-averageprepaymentspeeds
.................................11.22%Impactonfairvalueof10%adversechange
..........................$
(8,001,000)Impactonfairvalueof20%adversechange
..........................(15,364,000)Weighted-averageOAS
............................................10.65%Impactonfairvalueof10%adversechange
..........................$
(6,959,000)Impactonfairvalueof20%adversechange
..........................(13,492,000)Weighted-averagediscountrate
......................................18.00%Impactonfairvalueof10%adversechange
..........................$(3,671,000)Impactonfairvalueof20%adversechange
..........................(7,092,000)Asdescribedinnote19,during2013theCompanysecuritizedapproximately$1.3billionofone-to-
fourfamilyresidentialmortgageloansformerlyheldintheCompany™sloanportfolioinguaranteed

mortgagesecuritizationswithGinnieMaeandsecuritizedandsoldapproximately$1.4billionofautomobile

loans.Inconjunctionwiththesetransactions,theCompanyretainedtheservicingrightstotheloans.
1278.Goodwillandotherintangibleassets
InaccordancewithGAAP,theCompanydoesnotamortizegoodwill,however,coredepositandother
intangibleassetsareamortizedovertheestimatedlifeofeachrespectiveasset.Totalamortizingintangible

assetswerecomprisedofthefollowing:
GrossCarrying
AmountAccumulatedAmortizationNetCarrying
Amount(Inthousands)
December31,2014
Coredeposit
.........................................$755,794$730,188$25,606
Other...............................................177,268167,8479,421
Total................................................$933,062$898,035$35,027
December31,2013
Coredeposit
.........................................$755,794$705,518$50,276
Other...............................................177,268158,69318,575
Total................................................$933,062$864,211$68,851
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassetswasgenerallycomputedusingaccelerated
methodsoveroriginalamortizationperiodsoffivetotenyears.Theweighted-averageoriginalamortization

periodwasapproximatelyeightyears.Theremainingweighted-averageamortizationperiodasof

December31,2014wasapproximatelytwoyears.Amortizationexpenseforcoredepositandother

intangibleassetswas$33,824,000,$46,912,000and$60,631,000fortheyearsendedDecember31,2014,2013

and2012,respectively.Estimatedamortizationexpenseinfutureyearsforsuchintangibleassetsisas

follows:(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2015.......................................................................$20,9382016.......................................................................10,0522017.......................................................................3,3032018.......................................................................734
$35,027InaccordancewithGAAP,theCompanycompletedannualgoodwillimpairmenttestsasof
October1,2014,2013and2012.Forpurposesoftestingforimpairment,theCompanyassignedallrecorded

goodwilltothereportingunitsoriginallyintendedtobenefitfrompastbusinesscombinations,whichhas

historicallybeentheCompany™scorerelationshipbusinessreportingunits.Goodwillwasgenerallyassigned

basedontheimpliedfairvalueoftheacquiredgoodwillapplicabletothebenefitedreportingunitsatthe

timeofeachrespectiveacquisition.Theimpliedfairvalueofthegoodwillwasdeterminedasthedifference

betweentheestimatedincrementaloverallfairvalueofthereportingunitandtheestimatedfairvalueofthe

netassetsassignedtothereportingunitasofeachrespectiveacquisitiondate.Totestforgoodwill

impairmentateachevaluationdate,theCompanycomparedtheestimatedfairvalueofeachofitsreporting

unitstotheirrespectivecarryingamountsandcertainotherassetsandliabilitiesassignedtothereporting

unit,includinggoodwillandcoredepositandotherintangibleassets.Themethodologiesusedtoestimate

fairvaluesofreportingunitsasoftheacquisitiondatesandasoftheevaluationdatesweresimilar.Forthe

Company™scorecustomerrelationshipbusinessreportingunits,fairvaluewasestimatedasthepresentvalue

oftheexpectedfuturecashflowsofthereportingunit.Basedontheresultsofthegoodwillimpairmenttests,

theCompanyconcludedthattheamountofrecordedgoodwillwasnotimpairedattherespectivetesting

dates.128AsummaryofgoodwillassignedtoeachoftheCompany™sreportablesegmentsasofDecember31,
2014and2013forpurposesoftestingforimpairmentisasfollows.
(Inthousands)
BusinessBanking
...............................................................$
748,907CommercialBanking
............................................................907,524CommercialRealEstate
..........................................................349,197DiscretionaryPortfolio
..........................................................Š
ResidentialMortgageBanking
.....................................................Š
RetailBanking
.................................................................1,144,404AllOther
......................................................................374,593Total.........................................................................$3,524,6259.Borrowings
Theamountsandinterestratesofshort-termborrowingswereasfollows:
FederalFunds
PurchasedandRepurchaseAgreementsOtherShort-termBorrowingsTotal(Dollarsinthousands)
AtDecember31,2014
Amountoutstanding
....................................$
192,676Š$192,676
Weighted-averageinterestrate
............................0.07%Š0.07%
FortheyearendedDecember31,2014
Highestamountatamonth-end
...........................$
280,350Š
Daily-averageamountoutstanding
.........................214,736Š$214,736
Weighted-averageinterestrate
............................0.05%Š0.05%
AtDecember31,2013
Amountoutstanding
....................................$
260,455Š$260,455
Weighted-averageinterestrate
............................0.04%Š0.04%
FortheyearendedDecember31,2013
Highestamountatamonth-end
...........................$
563,879Š
Daily-averageamountoutstanding
.........................390,034Š$390,034
Weighted-averageinterestrate
............................0.11%Š0.11%
AtDecember31,2012
Amountoutstanding
....................................$1,074,482Š$1,074,482
Weighted-averageinterestrate
............................0.11%Š0.11%
FortheyearendedDecember31,2012
Highestamountatamonth-end
...........................$1,224,194$50,016
Daily-averageamountoutstanding
.........................822,85916,043$838,902
Weighted-averageinterestrate
............................0.15%0.57%0.15%
Short-termborrowingshaveastatedmaturityofoneyearorlessatthedatetheCompanyentersinto
theobligation.Ingeneral,federalfundspurchasedandshort-termrepurchaseagreementsoutstandingat

December31,2014maturedonthenextbusinessdayfollowingyear-end.
129AtDecember31,2014,theCompanyhadlinesofcreditunderformalagreementsasfollows:
M&TBank
WilmingtonTrust,N.A.
(Inthousands)
Outstandingborrowings
..........................................................$
1,161,475$Š
Unused........................................................................19,825,036275,414
AtDecember31,2014,M&TBankhadborrowingfacilitiesavailablewiththeFHLBswherebyM&T
Bankcouldborrowuptoapproximately$8.1billion.Additionally,M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,

NationalAssociation(ﬁWilmingtonTrust,N.A.ﬂ),awhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&T,hadavailablelinesof

creditwiththeFederalReserveBankofNewYorktotalingapproximately$13.1billionatDecember31,

2014.M&TBankandWilmingtonTrust,N.A.arerequiredtopledgeloansandinvestmentsecuritiesas

collateralfortheseborrowingfacilities.
Long-termborrowingswereasfollows:
December31,
20142013(Inthousands)
SeniornotesofM&TBank:
Variableratedue2016
.............................................................$
300,000$300,000
Variableratedue2017
.............................................................550,000Š
1.25%due2017
..................................................................499,969Š
1.40%due2017
..................................................................749,756Š
1.45%due2018
..................................................................503,118502,479
2.25%due2019
..................................................................648,243Š
2.30%due2019
..................................................................748,965Š
AdvancesfromFHLB:
Fixedrates
......................................................................1,161,51429,079
Agreementstorepurchasesecurities
....................................................1,400,0001,400,000
SubordinatednotesofWilmingtonTrustCorporation
(awhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&T):

8.50%due2018
..................................................................218,883224,067
SubordinatednotesofM&TBank:
6.625%due2017
.................................................................428,627437,582
9.50%due2018
..................................................................Š
50,0005.585%due2020,variableratecommencing2015
......................................400,846392,964
5.629%due2021,variableratecommencing2016
......................................538,961559,378
JuniorsubordinateddebenturesofM&Tassociatedwithpreferredcapitalsecurities:
Fixedrates:
M&TCapitalTrustIŠ8.234%,due2027
...........................................154,640154,640
M&TCapitalTrustIIŠ8.277%,due2027
..........................................103,093103,093
M&TCapitalTrustIIIŠ9.25%,due2027
..........................................65,78466,109
BSBCapitalTrustIŠ8.125%,due2028
............................................15,61215,589
ProvidentTrustIŠ8.29%,due2028
..............................................25,40525,051
SouthernFinancialStatutoryTrustIŠ10.60%,due2030
..............................6,5506,521
M&TCapitalTrustIVŠ8.50%,due2068
..........................................Š
350,010Variablerates:
FirstMarylandCapitalIŠdue2027
...............................................145,179144,641
FirstMarylandCapitalIIŠdue2027
..............................................146,627145,964
AllfirstAssetTrustŠdue2029
...................................................96,20496,059
BSBCapitalTrustIIIŠdue2033
.................................................15,46415,464
ProvidentTrustIIIŠdue2033
...................................................52,69252,176
SouthernFinancialCapitalTrustIIIŠdue2033
.....................................7,8167,747
Other............................................................................23,01130,257
$9,006,959$5,108,870
130Duringthefirstquarterof2013,M&TBankinstitutedaBankNoteProgrampursuanttowhichithas
issuedseniornotesin2014and2013.Thefloatingratenotespayinterestquarterlyatratesthatareindexed

tothethree-monthLIBOR.Thecontractualinterestratesforthefloatingrateseniornotesrangedfrom

0.54%to0.61%atDecember31,2014andwere0.54%atDecember31,2013.Theweighted-average

contractualinterestratepayablewas0.56%atDecember31,2014.
Long-termfixedrateadvancesfromtheFHLBhadcontractualinterestratesrangingfrom1.17%to
7.32%atDecember31,2014andfrom3.48%to7.32%atDecember31,2013.Theweighted-average

contractualinterestratespayablewere1.68%atDecember31,2014and4.60%atDecember31,2013.

AdvancesfromtheFHLBmatureatvariousdatesthrough2035andaresecuredbyresidentialrealestate

loans,commercialrealestateloansandinvestmentsecurities.
Long-termagreementstorepurchasesecuritieshadcontractualinterestratesthatrangedfrom3.61%
to4.30%ateachofDecember31,2014and2013withaweighted-averagecontractualinterestrateof3.90%.

Theagreementsreflectvariousrepurchasedatesthrough2017,however,thecontractualmaturitiesofthe

underlyinginvestmentsecuritiesextendbeyondsuchrepurchasedates.Theagreementsaresubjecttolegally

enforceablemasternettingarrangements,however,theCompanyhasnotoffsetanyamountsrelatedtothese

agreementsinitsconsolidatedfinancialstatements.TheCompanypostedcollateralof$1.5billionand$1.6

billionatDecember31,2014and2013,respectively.
ThesubordinatednotesofM&TBankandWilmingtonTrustCorporationareunsecuredandare
subordinatetotheclaimsofothercreditorsofthoseentities.
ThefixedandfloatingratejuniorsubordinateddeferrableinterestdebenturesofM&T(ﬁJunior
SubordinatedDebenturesﬂ)areheldbyvarioustrustsandwereissuedinconnectionwiththeissuanceby

thosetrustsofpreferredcapitalsecurities(ﬁCapitalSecuritiesﬂ)andcommonsecurities(ﬁCommon

Securitiesﬂ).TheproceedsfromtheissuancesoftheCapitalSecuritiesandtheCommonSecuritieswereused

bythetruststopurchasetheJuniorSubordinatedDebentures.TheCommonSecuritiesofeachofthose

trustsarewhollyownedbyM&Tandaretheonlyclassofeachtrust™ssecuritiespossessinggeneralvoting

powers.TheCapitalSecuritiesrepresentpreferredundividedinterestsintheassetsofthecorresponding

trust.UndertheFederalReserveBoard™scurrentrisk-basedcapitalguidelines,theCapitalSecuritieswere

includableinM&T™sTier1capitalthroughDecember31,2014.In2015,only25%ofthen-outstanding

securitiesareincludedinTier1capitalandbeginningin2016noneofthesecuritieswillbeincludedinTier

1capital.ThevariablerateJuniorSubordinatedDebenturespayinterestquarterlyatratesthatareindexedto

thethree-monthLIBOR.Thoseratesrangedfrom1.08%to3.58%atDecember31,2014andfrom1.09%to

3.59%atDecember31,2013.Theweighted-averagevariableratespayableonthoseJuniorSubordinated

Debentureswere1.66%atDecember31,2014and1.67%atDecember31,2013.
HoldersoftheCapitalSecuritiesreceivepreferentialcumulativecashdistributionsunlessM&T
exercisesitsrighttoextendthepaymentofinterestontheJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesasallowedbythe

termsofeachsuchdebenture,inwhichcasepaymentofdistributionsontherespectiveCapitalSecurities

willbedeferredforcomparableperiods.Duringanextendedinterestperiod,M&Tmaynotpaydividendsor

distributionson,orrepurchase,redeemoracquireanysharesofitscapitalstock.Ingeneral,theagreements

governingtheCapitalSecurities,intheaggregate,provideafull,irrevocableandunconditionalguaranteeby

M&Tofthepaymentofdistributionson,theredemptionof,andanyliquidationdistributionwithrespectto

theCapitalSecurities.TheobligationsundersuchguaranteeandtheCapitalSecuritiesaresubordinateand

juniorinrightofpaymenttoallseniorindebtednessofM&T.
TheCapitalSecuritieswillremainoutstandinguntiltheJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesarerepaid
atmaturity,areredeemedpriortomaturityoraredistributedinliquidationtothetrusts.TheCapital

Securitiesaremandatorilyredeemableinwhole,butnotinpart,uponrepaymentatthestatedmaturity

dates(rangingfrom2027to2033)oftheJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesortheearlierredemptionofthe

JuniorSubordinatedDebenturesinwholeupontheoccurrenceofoneormoreeventssetforthinthe

indenturesrelatingtotheCapitalSecurities,andinwholeorinpartatanytimeafteranoptional

redemptionpriortocontractualmaturitycontemporaneouslywiththeoptionalredemptionoftherelated

JuniorSubordinatedDebenturesinwholeorinpart,subjecttopossibleregulatoryapproval.InFebruary

2014,M&Tredeemedalloftheissuedandoutstanding8.5%$350milliontrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedby

M&TCapitalTrustIVandtherelatedJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesheldbyM&TCapitalTrustIV.
131Long-termborrowingsatDecember31,2014matureasfollows:
(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2015.......................................................................$
6,4442016.......................................................................1,105,5402017.......................................................................3,407,7862018.......................................................................723,5162019.......................................................................1,971,842Lateryears
...................................................................1,791,831$9,006,95910.Shareholders™equity
M&Tisauthorizedtoissue1,000,000sharesofpreferredstockwitha$1.00parvaluepershare.Preferred
sharesoutstandingrankseniortocommonsharesbothastodividendsandliquidationpreference,buthave

nogeneralvotingrights.
IssuedandoutstandingpreferredstockofM&Tispresentedbelow:
December31,2014
December31,2013
SharesIssuedand
OutstandingCarryingValueSharesIssuedand
OutstandingCarryingValue(Dollarsinthousands)
SeriesA(a)
FixedRateCumulativePerpetualPreferredStock,SeriesA,
$1,000liquidationpreferencepershare
....................230,000$230,000230,000$230,000
SeriesC(a)

FixedRateCumulativePerpetualPreferredStock,SeriesC,
$1,000liquidationpreferencepershare
....................151,500151,500151,500151,500
SeriesD(b)

FixedRateNon-cumulativePerpetualPreferredStock,SeriesD,
$10,000liquidationpreferencepershare
...................50,000500,00050,000500,000
SeriesE(c)

Fixed-to-FloatingRateNon-cumulativePerpetualPreferred
Stock,SeriesE,$1,000liquidationpreferencepershare
.......350,000350,000ŠŠ
(a)Dividends,ifdeclared,werepaidquarterlyatarateof5%peryearthroughNovember14,2013andarepaidat
6.375%thereafter.WarrantstopurchaseM&TcommonstockwereissuedinconnectionwiththeSeriesAandC

preferredstock(SeriesAŠ1,218,522commonsharesat$73.86pershare;SeriesCŠ407,542commonsharesat

$55.76pershare).InMarch2013,theSeriesCwarrantwereexercisedinaﬁcashlessﬂexercise,resultinginthe

issuanceof186,589commonshares.During2014and2013,427,905and69,127,respectively,oftheSeriesA

warrantswereexercisedinﬁcashlessﬂexercises,resultingintheissuanceof169,543and25,427commonshares.

RemainingoutstandingSeriesAwarrantswere721,490atDecember31,2014.
(b)Dividends,ifdeclared,willbepaidsemi-annuallyatarateof6.875%peryear.Thesharesareredeemablein
wholeorinpartonorafterJune15,2016.NotwithstandingM&T™soptiontoredeemtheshares,ifanevent

occurssuchthatthesharesnolongerqualifyasTier1capital,M&Tmayredeemalloftheshareswithin90days

followingthatoccurrence.
(c)Dividends,ifdeclared,willbepaidsemi-annuallyatarateof6.45%throughFebruary14,2024andthereafter
willbepaidquarterlyatarateofthethree-monthLIBORplus361basispoints(hundredthsofonepercent).The

sharesareredeemableinwholeorinpartonorafterFebruary15,2024.NotwithstandingM&T™soptionto

redeemtheshares,ifaneventoccurssuchthatthesharesnolongerqualifyasTier1capital,M&Tmayredeemall

oftheshareswithin90daysfollowingthatoccurrence.
132InadditiontotheSeriesAandSeriesCwarrantsmentionedin(a)above,aten-yearwarrantto
purchase95,383sharesofM&Tcommonstockat$518.96persharewasoutstandingateachof

December31,2014and2013.TheobligationunderthatwarrantwasassumedbyM&Tinanacquisition.
11.Stock-basedcompensationplans
Stock-basedcompensationexpensewas$65millionin2014,$55millionin2013and$57millionin2012.

TheCompanyrecognizedincometaxbenefitsrelatedtostock-basedcompensationof$31millionin2014,

$29millionin2013and$30millionin2012.
TheCompany™sequityincentivecompensationplanallowsfortheissuanceofvariousformsof
stock-basedcompensation,includingstockoptions,restrictedstock,restrictedstockunitsandperformance-

basedawards.AtDecember31,2014and2013,respectively,therewere4,398,496and4,874,542shares

availableforfuturegrantundertheCompany™sequityincentivecompensationplan.
Restrictedstockawards
Restrictedstockawardsarecomprisedofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunits.Restrictedstockawards

grantedin2014vestoverthreeyears.Restrictedstockawardsgrantedpriorto2014generallyvestoverfour

years.Aportionofrestrictedstockawardsgrantedin2014requireaperformanceconditiontobemetbefore

suchawardsvest.Unrecognizedcompensationexpenseassociatedwithrestrictedstockwas$19millionasof

December31,2014andisexpectedtoberecognizedoveraweighted-averageperiodofapproximatelyone

year.TheCompanymayissuerestrictedsharesfromtreasurystocktotheextentavailableorissuenew

shares.Thenumberofrestrictedsharesissuedwas221,822in2014,269,755in2013and453,908in2012,

withaweighted-averagegrantdatefairvalueof$24,765,000in2014,$27,716,000in2013and$36,969,000in

2012.Unrecognizedcompensationexpenseassociatedwithrestrictedstockunitswas$7millionasof

December31,2014andisexpectedtoberecognizedoveraweighted-averageperiodofapproximatelyone

year.During2014,2013and2012thenumberofrestrictedstockunitsissuedwas299,525,315,316and

278,505,respectively,withaweighted-averagegrantdatefairvalueof$33,406,000,$32,380,000and

$22,139,000,respectively.
Asummaryofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunitactivityfollows:
RestrictedStockUnits
OutstandingWeighted-AverageGrantPrice
RestrictedStockOutstandingWeighted-AverageGrantPrice
UnvestedatJanuary1,2014
.............................770,830$89.58862,695$87.29
Granted.............................................299,525111.53221,822111.64
Vested...............................................(279,747)84.95(295,438)81.32
Cancelled............................................(1,197)103.25(27,434)96.70
UnvestedatDecember31,2014
..........................789,411$99.53761,645$96.36
Stockoptionawards
Stockoptionsissuedgenerallyvestoverfouryearsandareexercisableovertermsnotexceedingtenyears

andoneday.TheCompanyusedanoptionpricingmodeltoestimatethegrantdatepresentvalueofstock

optionsgranted.Stockoptionsgrantedin2014,2013and2012werenotsignificant.
Asummaryofstockoptionactivityfollows:
StockOptionsOutstandingWeighted-AverageAggregateIntrinsicValue
(Inthousands)
ExercisePriceLife(InYears)
OutstandingatJanuary1,2014
...........................4,880,761$105.48
Granted.............................................200
111.51Exercised............................................(1,372,113)101.55
Expired..............................................(75,978)184.15
OutstandingatDecember31,2014
........................3,432,870$105.312.1$71,418
ExercisableatDecember31,2014
.........................3,432,470$105.312.1$71,408
133For2014,2013and2012,M&Treceived$127million,$172millionand$153million,respectively,in
cashandrealizedtaxbenefitsfromtheexerciseofstockoptionsof$9million,$12millionand$8million,

respectively.Theintrinsicvalueofstockoptionsexercisedduringthoseperiodswas$26million,$34million

and$21million,respectively.AsofDecember31,2014,theamountofunrecognizedcompensationcost

relatedtonon-vestedstockoptionswasnotsignificant.Thetotalgrantdatefairvalueofstockoptions

vestedduring2014and2013wasnotsignificant,andfor2012was$17million.Upontheexerciseofstock

options,theCompanymayissuesharesfromtreasurystocktotheextentavailableorissuenewshares.
Stockpurchaseplan
ThestockpurchaseplanprovideseligibleemployeesoftheCompanywiththerighttopurchasesharesof

M&Tcommonstockatadiscountthroughaccumulatedpayrolldeductions.Inconnectionwiththe

employeestockpurchaseplan,2,500,000sharesofM&Tcommonstockwereauthorizedforissuanceunder

aplanadoptedin2013.Therewere85,761sharesissuedin2014,nosharesissuedin2013and151,014shares

issuedin2012underapreviousplan.For2014and2012,M&Treceived$8,607,000and$10,117,000,

respectively,incashforsharespurchasedthroughtheemployeestockpurchaseplan.Compensationexpense

recognizedforthestockpurchaseplanwasnotsignificantin2014,2013or2012.
Deferredbonusplan
TheCompanyprovidedadeferredbonusplanpursuanttowhicheligibleemployeescouldelecttodeferall

oraportionoftheirannualincentivecompensationawardsandallocatesuchawardstoseveralinvestment

options,includingM&Tcommonstock.Participantscouldelectthetimingofdistributionsfromtheplan.

SuchdistributionsarepayableincashwiththeexceptionofbalancesallocatedtoM&Tcommonstock

whicharedistributableintheformofM&Tcommonstock.SharesofM&Tcommonstockdistributable

pursuanttothetermsofthedeferredbonusplanwere29,297and33,046atDecember31,2014and2013,

respectively.Theobligationtoissuesharesisincludedinﬁcommonstockissuableﬂintheconsolidated

balancesheet.
Directors™stockplan
TheCompanymaintainsacompensationplanfornon-employeemembersoftheCompany™sboardsof

directorsanddirectorsadvisorycouncilsthatallowssuchmemberstoreceivealloraportionoftheir

compensationinsharesofM&Tcommonstock.ThroughDecember31,2014,211,655shareshadbeen

issuedinconnectionwiththedirectors™stockplan.
Throughacquisitions,theCompanyassumedobligationstoissuesharesofM&Tcommonstock
relatedtodeferreddirectorscompensationplans.Sharesofcommonstockissuableundersuchplanswere

12,033and14,185atDecember31,2014and2013,respectively.Theobligationtoissuesharesisincludedin

ﬁcommonstockissuableﬂintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.
12.Pensionplansandotherpostretirementbenefits
TheCompanyprovidesdefinedbenefitpensionandotherpostretirementbenefits(includinghealthcare

andlifeinsurancebenefits)toqualifiedretiredemployees.TheCompanyusesaDecember31measurement

dateforallofitsplans.
Netperiodicpensionexpensefordefinedbenefitplansconsistedofthefollowing:
YearEndedDecember31
201420132012(Inthousands)
Servicecost
..................................................$
20,520$24,360$29,549
Interestcostonbenefitobligation
................................69,16260,13062,037
Expectedreturnonplanassets
..................................(91,568)(87,353)(70,511)
Amortizationofpriorservicecredit
..............................(6,552)(6,556)(6,559)
Recognizednetactuarialloss
....................................14,49441,07637,386
Netperiodicpensionexpense
...................................$
6,056$31,657$51,902
134Netotherpostretirementbenefitsexpensefordefinedbenefitplansconsistedofthefollowing:
YearEndedDecember31
201420132012(Inthousands)
Servicecost
......................................................$605$742$668
Interestcostonbenefitobligation
...................................2,7782,6913,737
Amortizationofpriorservicecost(credit)
.............................(1,359)(1,359)21
Recognizednetactuarialloss
.......................................Š360530
Netotherpostretirementbenefitsexpense
.............................$
2,024$2,434$4,956
Datarelatingtothefundingpositionofthedefinedbenefitplanswereasfollows:
PensionBenefits
OtherPostretirementBenefits
2014201320142013(Inthousands)
Changeinbenefitobligation:
Benefitobligationatbeginningofyear
............$1,484,193$1,644,567$60,592$74,966
Servicecost
..................................20,52024,360605742
Interestcost
..................................69,16260,1302,7782,691
Planparticipants™contributions
..................ŠŠ
3,4983,069
Amendments.................................4,619ŠŠŠ
Actuarial(gain)loss
...........................300,444(184,181)7,793(12,830)
MedicarePartDreimbursement
.................ŠŠ495509
Benefitspaid
.................................(65,529)(60,683)(8,259)(8,555)
Benefitobligationatendofyear
..................1,813,4091,484,19367,50260,592
Changeinplanassets:
Fairvalueofplanassetsatbeginningofyear
........1,506,6841,408,771ŠŠ
Actualreturnonplanassets
.....................56,430150,795ŠŠ
Employercontributions
........................8,0767,8014,2664,977
Planparticipants™contributions
..................ŠŠ
3,4983,069
MedicarePartDreimbursement
.................ŠŠ495509
Benefitsandotherpayments
....................(65,529)(60,683)(8,259)(8,555)
Fairvalueofplanassetsatendofyear
.............1,505,6611,506,684ŠŠ
Fundedstatus
..................................$
(307,748)$22,491$(67,502)$(60,592)
Assetsandliabilitiesrecognizedintheconsolidated
balancesheetwere:
Netprepaidasset
..............................$Š$
139,576$Š$Š
Accruedliabilities
.............................(307,748)(117,085)(67,502)(60,592)
Amountsrecognizedinaccumulatedother
comprehensiveincome(ﬁAOCIﬂ)were:
Netloss(gain)
................................$
512,473$191,386$6,737$(1,056)
Netpriorservicecost
..........................(5,728)(16,899)(10,455)(11,814)
Pre-taxadjustmenttoAOCI
.....................506,745174,487(3,718)(12,870)
Taxes........................................(198,897)(68,486)1,4595,051
NetadjustmenttoAOCI.
.......................$
307,848$106,001$(2,259)$(7,819)
135TheCompanyhasanunfundedsupplementalpensionplanforcertainkeyexecutivesandothers.The
projectedbenefitobligationandaccumulatedbenefitobligationincludedintheprecedingdatarelatedto

suchplanwere$135,891,000asofDecember31,2014and$117,085,000asofDecember31,2013.
Theaccumulatedbenefitobligationforalldefinedbenefitpensionplanswas$1,782,387,000and
$1,460,498,000atDecember31,2014and2013,respectively.
GAAPrequiresanemployertorecognizeinitsbalancesheetasanassetorliabilitytheoverfundedor
underfundedstatusofadefinedbenefitpostretirementplan,measuredasthedifferencebetweenthefair

valueofplanassetsandthebenefitobligation.Forapensionplan,thebenefitobligationistheprojected

benefitobligation;foranyotherpostretirementbenefitplan,suchasaretireehealthcareplan,thebenefit

obligationistheaccumulatedpostretirementbenefitobligation.Gainsorlossesandpriorservicecostsor

creditsthatariseduringtheperiod,butarenotincludedascomponentsofnetperiodicbenefitexpense,are

recognizedasacomponentofothercomprehensiveincome.Asindicatedintheprecedingtable,asof

December31,2014theCompanyrecordedaminimumliabilityadjustmentof$503,027,000($506,745,000

relatedtopensionplansand$(3,718,000)relatedtootherpostretirementbenefits)withacorresponding

reductionofshareholders™equity,netofapplicabledeferredtaxes,of$305,589,000.Inaggregate,thebenefit

plansrealizedanetlossduring2014thatresultedfromactualexperiencedifferingfromtheplan

assumptionsutilizedandfromchangesinactuarialassumptions.Themainfactorscontributingtothatloss

wereadecreaseinthediscountrateusedinthemeasurementofthebenefitobligationsto4.00%at

December31,2014from4.75%atDecember31,2013andthemigrationtoupdatedactuarialmortality

tablesissuedbytheSocietyofActuariesreflectinglongerlifeexpectancyoftheplan™sparticipants.Asa

result,theCompanyincreaseditsminimumliabilityadjustmentfromthatwhichwasrecordedat

December31,2013by$341,410,000withacorrespondingdecreasetoshareholders™equitythat,netof

applicabledeferredtaxes,was$207,407,000.Thetablebelowreflectsthechangesinplanassetsandbenefit

obligationsrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincomerelatedtotheCompany™spostretirementbenefit

plans.PensionPlans
OtherPostretirementBenefitPlans
Total(Inthousands)
2014Netloss
...............................................$
335,581$7,793$343,374
Priorservicecost
........................................4,619Š4,619
Amortizationofpriorservicecredit
.........................6,5521,3597,911
Amortizationofloss
.....................................(14,494)Š(14,494)
Totalrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincome,pre-tax
.......$
332,258$9,152$341,410
2013Netgain
...............................................$(247,622)$(12,830)$(260,452)
Amortizationofpriorservicecredit
.........................6,5561,3597,915
Amortizationofloss
.....................................(41,076)(360)(41,436)
Totalrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincome,pre-tax
.......$(282,142)$(11,831)$(293,973)
Thefollowingtablereflectstheamortizationofamountsinaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome
expectedtoberecognizedascomponentsofnetperiodicbenefitexpenseduring2015:
PensionPlans
OtherPostretirementBenefitPlans
(Inthousands)
Amortizationofnetpriorservicecredit
.................................$
(6,005)$(1,359)
Amortizationofnetloss
.............................................44,65391
TheCompanyalsoprovidesaqualifieddefinedcontributionpensionplantoeligibleemployeeswho
werenotparticipantsinthedefinedbenefitpensionplanasofDecember31,2005andtootheremployees

whohaveelectedtoparticipateinthedefinedcontributionplan.TheCompanymakescontributionstothe
136definedcontributionplaneachyearinanamountthatisbasedonanindividualparticipant™stotal
compensation(generallydefinedastotalwages,incentivecompensation,commissionsandbonuses)and

yearsofservice.Participantsdonotcontributetothedefinedcontributionpensionplan.Pensionexpense

recordedin2014,2013and2012associatedwiththedefinedcontributionpensionplanwasapproximately

$22million,$21millionand$17million,respectively.
AssumptionsTheassumedweighted-averageratesusedtodeterminebenefitobligationsatDecember31were:
PensionBenefitsOtherPostretirementBenefits2014201320142013Discountrate
.....................................................4.00%4.75%4.00%4.75%
Rateofincreaseinfuturecompensationlevels
...........................4.39%4.42%ŠŠ
Theassumedweighted-averageratesusedtodeterminenetbenefitexpensefortheyearsended
December31were:
PensionBenefits
OtherPostretirementBenefits
201420132012201420132012Discountrate
........................................4.75%3.75%4.25%4.75%3.75%4.25%
Long-termrateofreturnonplanassets
...................6.50%6.50%6.50%ŠŠŠ
Rateofincreaseinfuturecompensationlevels
..............4.42%4.50%4.50%ŠŠŠ
Theexpectedlong-termrateofreturnassumptionasofeachmeasurementdatewasdeveloped
throughanalysisofhistoricalmarketreturns,currentmarketconditions,anticipatedfutureassetallocations,

thefunds™pastexperience,andexpectationsonpotentialfuturemarketreturns.Theexpectedrateofreturn

assumptionrepresentsalong-termaverageviewoftheperformanceoftheplanassets,areturnthatmayor

maynotbeachievedduringanyonecalendaryear.
Formeasurementofotherpostretirementbenefits,a7.00%annualrateofincreaseinthepercapita
costofcoveredhealthcarebenefitswasassumedfor2015.Theratewasassumedtodecreaseto5.00%over

28years.Aone-percentagepointchangeinassumedhealthcarecosttrendrateswouldhavehadthe

followingeffects:
+1%-1%(Inthousands)
Increase(decrease)in:
Serviceandinterestcost
.....................................................$97$
(88)Accumulatedpostretirementbenefitobligation
..................................3,005(2,678)
PlanAssets
TheCompany™spolicyistoinvestthepensionplanassetsinaprudentmannerforthepurposeofproviding

benefitpaymentstoparticipantsandmitigatingreasonableexpensesofadministration.TheCompany™s

investmentstrategyisdesignedtoprovideatotalreturnthat,overthelong-term,placesastrongemphasis

onthepreservationofcapital.Thestrategyattemptstomaximizeinvestmentreturnsonassetsatalevelof

riskdeemedappropriatebytheCompanywhilecomplyingwithapplicableregulationsandlaws.The

investmentstrategyutilizesassetdiversificationasaprincipaldeterminantforestablishinganappropriate

riskprofilewhileemphasizingtotalreturnrealizedfromcapitalappreciation,dividendsandinterestincome.

Thetargetallocationsforplanassetsaregenerally45to80percentequitysecurities,5to40percentdebt

securities,and5to30percentmoney-marketfunds/cashequivalentsandotherinvestments,although

holdingscouldbemoreorlessthanthesegeneralguidelinesbasedonmarketconditionsatthetimeand

actionstakenorrecommendedbytheinvestmentmanagersprovidingadvicetotheCompany.Equity

securitiesincludeinvestmentsinlarge-capandmid-capcompanieslocatedintheUnitedStatesandequity

mutualfundswithdomesticandinternationalinvestments,and,toalesserextent,directinvestmentsin
137foreign-basedcompanies.Debtsecuritiesincludecorporatebondsofcompaniesfromdiversifiedindustries,
mortgage-backedsecuritiesguaranteedbygovernmentagencies,U.S.Treasurysecurities,andmutualfunds

thatinvestindebtsecurities.Additionally,theCompany™sdefinedbenefitpensionplanheld$172,026,000

(11.4%oftotalassets)ofrealestate,privateequityandotherinvestmentsatDecember31,2014.Returnson

investedassetsareperiodicallycomparedwithtargetmarketindicesforeachassettypetoaidmanagement

inevaluatingsuchreturns.Furthermore,managementregularlyreviewstheinvestmentpolicyandmay,if

deemedappropriate,makechangestothetargetallocationsnotedabove.
ThefairvaluesoftheCompany™spensionplanassetsatDecember31,2014,byassetcategory,wereas
follows:FairValueMeasurementofPlanAssetsAtDecember31,2014
TotalQuotedPrices
inActive
MarketsforIdenticalAssets
(Level1)
SignificantObservableInputs(Level2)
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level3)
(Inthousands)
Assetcategory:
Money-marketfunds
......................$
29,458$29,458$Š$Š
Equitysecurities:
M&T.................................
154,252154,252ŠŠ
Domestic(a)............................214,127214,127ŠŠ
International(b).........................16,17016,170ŠŠ
Mutualfunds:
Domestic(a)..........................305,817305,817ŠŠ
International(b)......................381,101381,101ŠŠ
1,071,4671,071,467ŠŠ
Debtsecurities:
Corporate(c)...........................102,848Š102,848Š
Government...........................92,772Š92,772Š
International...........................7,196Š7,196Š
Mutualfunds:
Domestic(d).........................27,84727,847ŠŠ
230,66327,847202,816Š
Other:Diversifiedmutualfund
..................96,93696,936ŠŠ
Privaterealestate
........................2,162ŠŠ2,162
Privateequity
...........................6,234ŠŠ6,234
Hedgefunds
............................66,69442,430Š24,264
172,026139,366Š32,660
Total(e).................................$1,503,614$1,268,138$202,816$32,660
138ThefairvaluesoftheCompany™spensionplanassetsatDecember31,2013,byassetcategory,wereas
follows:FairValueMeasurementofPlanAssetsAtDecember31,2013
TotalQuotedPrices
inActive
MarketsforIdenticalAssets
(Level1)
SignificantObservableInputs(Level2)
SignificantUnobservableInputs(Level3)
(Inthousands)
Assetcategory:
Money-marketfunds
......................$
37,952$37,952$Š$Š
Equitysecurities:
M&T.................................
142,955142,955ŠŠ
Domestic(a)............................271,203271,203ŠŠ
International(b).........................24,05324,053ŠŠ
Mutualfunds:
Domestic(a)..........................194,099194,099ŠŠ
International(b)......................413,685413,685ŠŠ
1,045,9951,045,995ŠŠ
Debtsecurities:
Corporate(c)...........................63,196Š63,196Š
Government...........................75,043Š75,043Š
International...........................2,443Š2,443Š
Mutualfunds:
Domestic(d).........................68,28068,280ŠŠ
International.........................43,74243,742ŠŠ
252,704112,022140,682Š
Other:Diversifiedmutualfund
..................93,05593,055ŠŠ
Privaterealestate
........................3,123ŠŠ3,123
Privateequity
...........................6,199ŠŠ6,199
Hedgefunds
............................65,66341,489Š24,174
168,040134,544Š33,496
Total(e).................................$1,504,691$1,330,513$140,682$33,496
(a)Thiscategoryiscomprisedofequitiesofcompaniesprimarilywithinthemid-capandlarge-capsectorsoftheU.S.
economyandrangeacrossdiverseindustries.
(b)Thiscategoryiscomprisedofequitiesincompaniesprimarilywithinthemid-capandlarge-capsectorsof
internationalmarketsmainlyindevelopedmarketsinEuropeandthePacificRim.
(c)ThiscategoryrepresentsinvestmentgradebondsofU.S.issuersfromdiverseindustries.

(d)Approximately55%ofthemutualfundswereinvestedininvestmentgradebondsofU.S.issuersand45%in
high-yieldingbondsatDecember31,2014.Approximately35%ofthemutualfundswereinvestedininvestment

gradebondsofU.S.issuersand65%inhigh-yieldingbondsatDecember31,2013.Theholdingswithinthefunds

werespreadacrossdiverseindustries.
(e)Excludesdividendsandinterestreceivabletotaling$2,047,000and$1,993,000atDecember31,2014and2013,
respectively.PensionplanassetsincludedcommonstockofM&Twithafairvalueof$154,252,000(10.2%oftotal
planassets)atDecember31,2014and$142,955,000(9.5%oftotalplanassets)atDecember31,2013.No
139otherinvestmentinsecuritiesofanon-U.S.Governmentorgovernmentagencyissuerexceededtenpercent
ofplanassetsatDecember31,2014.AssetssubjecttoLevel3valuationsdidnotconstituteasignificant

portionofplanassetsatDecember31,2014orDecember31,2013.
ThechangesinLevel3pensionplanassetsmeasuredatestimatedfairvalueonarecurringbasis
duringtheyearendedDecember31,2014wereasfollows:
BalanceŒ
January1,
2014SalesTotalRealized/UnrealizedGainsBalanceŒ
December31,
2014(Inthousands)
OtherPrivaterealestate
..................................$
3,123$(1,167)$206$2,162
Privateequity
.....................................6,199(905)9406,234
Hedgefunds
......................................24,174(513)60324,264
Total..........................................$33,496$(2,585)$1,749$32,660
TheCompanymakescontributionstoitsfundedqualifieddefinedbenefitpensionplanasrequired
bygovernmentregulationorasdeemedappropriatebymanagementafterconsideringfactorssuchasthe

fairvalueofplanassets,expectedreturnsonsuchassets,andthepresentvalueofbenefitobligationsofthe

plan.Subjecttotheimpactofactualeventsandcircumstancesthatmayoccurin2015,theCompanymay

makecontributionstothequalifieddefinedbenefitpensionplanin2015,buttheamountofanysuch

contributionhasnotyetbeendetermined.TheCompanydidnotmakeanycontributionstotheplanin

2014or2013.TheCompanyregularlyfundsthepaymentofbenefitobligationsforthesupplementaldefined

benefitpensionandpostretirementbenefitplansbecausesuchplansdonotholdassetsforinvestment.

PaymentsmadebytheCompanyforsupplementalpensionbenefitswere$8,076,000and$7,801,000in2014

and2013,respectively.PaymentsmadebytheCompanyforpostretirementbenefitswere$4,266,000and

$4,977,000in2014and2013,respectively.Paymentsforsupplementalpensionandotherpostretirement

benefitsfor2015arenotexpectedtodifferfromthosemadein2014byanamountthatwillbematerialto

theCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialposition.
EstimatedbenefitsexpectedtobepaidinfutureyearsrelatedtotheCompany™sdefinedbenefitpension
andotherpostretirementbenefitsplansareasfollows:
PensionBenefitsOtherPostretirementBenefits(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2015.............................................................$
70,107$5,830
2016.............................................................73,1695,719
2017.............................................................77,2945,554
2018.............................................................81,2315,412
2019.............................................................87,0275,281
2020through2024
.................................................497,17724,190
TheCompanyhasaretirementsavingsplan(ﬁRSPﬂ)thatisadefinedcontributionplaninwhich
eligibleemployeesoftheCompanymaydeferupto50%ofqualifiedcompensationviacontributionstothe

plan.TheCompanymakesanemployermatchingcontributioninanamountequalto75%ofanemployee™s

contribution,upto4.5%oftheemployee™squalifiedcompensation.Employees™accounts,including

employeecontributions,employermatchingcontributionsandaccumulatedearningsthereon,areatall

timesfullyvestedandnonforfeitable.EmployeebenefitsexpenseresultingfromtheCompany™s

contributionstotheRSPtotaled$32,466,000,$31,797,000and$31,305,000in2014,2013and2012,

respectively.14013.Incometaxes
Thecomponentsofincometaxexpensewereasfollows:
YearEndedDecember31
201420132012(Inthousands)
CurrentFederal...................................................$378,978$371,249$309,156
Stateandcity
..............................................50,79068,03582,014
Totalcurrent
............................................429,768439,284391,170
DeferredFederal...................................................65,503106,537117,229
Stateandcity
..............................................27,34533,24814,629
Totaldeferred
...........................................92,848139,785131,858
Totalincometaxesapplicabletopre-taxincome
...............$522,616$579,069$523,028
TheCompanyfilesaconsolidatedfederalincometaxreturnreflectingtaxableincomeearnedbyall
domesticsubsidiaries.Inprioryears,applicablefederaltaxlawallowedcertainfinancialinstitutionsthe

optionofdeductingasbaddebtexpensefortaxpurposesamountsinexcessofactuallosses.Inaccordance

withGAAP,suchfinancialinstitutionswerenotrequiredtoprovidedeferredincometaxesonsuchexcess.

Recaptureoftheexcesstaxbaddebtreserveestablishedunderthepreviouslyallowedmethodwillresultin

taxableincomeifM&TBankfailstomaintainbankstatusasdefinedintheInternalRevenueCodeor

chargesaremadetothereserveforotherthanbaddebtlosses.AtDecember31,2014,M&TBank™staxbad

debtreserveforwhichnofederalincometaxeshavebeenprovidedwas$79,121,000.Noactionsareplanned

thatwouldcausethisreservetobecomewhollyorpartiallytaxable.
Incometaxesattributabletogainsorlossesonbankinvestmentsecuritieswereanexpenseof
$18,313,000in2013andabenefitof$18,766,000in2012.Therewerenogainsorlossesonbankinvestment

securitiesin2014.Noalternativeminimumtaxexpensewasrecognizedin2014,2013or2012.
Totalincometaxesdifferedfromtheamountcomputedbyapplyingthestatutoryfederalincometax
ratetopre-taxincomeasfollows:
YearEndedDecember31
201420132012(Inthousands)
Incometaxesatstatutoryfederalincometaxrate
...................$556,102$601,142$543,384
Increase(decrease)intaxes:
Tax-exemptincome
........................................(31,752)(34,747)(33,890)
Stateandcityincometaxes,netoffederalincometaxeffect
........50,78865,83462,818
Lowincomehousingandothercredits
.........................(49,526)(49,206)(42,074)
Other....................................................(2,996)(3,954)(7,210)
$522,616$579,069$523,028
141Deferredtaxassets(liabilities)werecomprisedofthefollowingatDecember31:
201420132012(Inthousands)
Lossesonloansandotherassets
............................$
605,273$645,713$809,033
Postretirementandotheremployeebenefits
..................34,05230,02334,517
Incentivecompensationplans
..............................36,45037,77250,067
Interestonloans
.........................................79,147100,72572,278
Retirementbenefits
......................................120,222Š91,980
Stock-basedcompensation
................................64,01763,10169,874
Depreciationandamortization
.............................3,5271,40412,130
Other.................................................100,999121,561103,027
Grossdeferredtaxassets
................................1,043,6871,000,2991,242,906
Leasingtransactions
......................................(280,596)(284,370)(291,524)
Unrealizedinvestmentgains
...............................(82,065)(21,779)(23,574)
Capitalizedservicingrights
................................(46,393)(46,041)(20,348)
Interestonsubordinatednoteexchange
......................(3,125)(6,075)(8,794)
Retirementbenefits
......................................Š
(9,397)Š
Other.................................................(63,814)(49,450)(61,410)
Grossdeferredtaxliabilities
.............................(475,993)(417,112)(405,650)
Netdeferredtaxasset
.....................................$
567,694$583,187$837,256
TheCompanybelievesthatitismorelikelythannotthatthedeferredtaxassetswillberealized
throughtaxableearningsoralternativetaxstrategies.
TheincometaxcreditsshowninthestatementofincomeofM&Tinnote25ariseprincipallyfrom
operatinglossesbeforedividendsfromsubsidiaries.
142Areconciliationofthebeginningandendingamountofunrecognizedtaxbenefitsfollows:
Federal,Stateand
LocalTax
AccruedInterestUnrecognizedIncomeTax
Benefits(Inthousands)
GrossunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatJanuary1,2012
.....................................$
18,333$9,277$27,610
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakenduring2012
...........860Š860
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakeninprioryears
..........Š
4,5144,514
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultofsettlementswithtaxingauthorities
........(1,002)Š(1,002)
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsbecauseapplicablereturnsarenolongersubjectto
examination..................................................................(1,643)(1,412)(3,055)
GrossunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatDecember31,2012
..................................16,54812,37928,927
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakenduring2013
...........2,267Š2,267
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakeninprioryears
..........Š
4,4294,429
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultofsettlementswithtaxingauthorities
........(1,854)(487)(2,341)
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsbecauseapplicablereturnsarenolongersubjectto
examination..................................................................(2,350)(1,625)(3,975)
GrossunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatDecember31,2013
..................................14,61114,69629,307
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakenduring2014
...........769Š769
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakeninprioryears
..........Š453453
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultofsettlementswithtaxingauthorities
........(4,668)(11,280)(15,948)
GrossunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatDecember31,2014
..................................$10,712$3,86914,581
Less:Federal,stateandlocalincometaxbenefits
.......................................(5,103)NetunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatDecember31,2014that,ifrecognized,wouldimpactthe
effectiveincometaxrate
.........................................................$
9,478TheCompany™spolicyistorecognizeinterestandpenalties,ifany,relatedtounrecognizedtax
benefitsinincometaxesintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.Thebalanceofaccruedinterestat

December31,2014isincludedinthetableabove.TheCompany™sfederal,stateandlocalincometaxreturns

areroutinelysubjecttoexaminationsfromvariousgovernmentaltaxingauthorities.Suchexaminationsmay

resultinchallengestothetaxreturntreatmentappliedbytheCompanytospecifictransactions.

Managementbelievesthattheassumptionsandjudgmentusedtorecordtax-relatedassetsorliabilitieshave

beenappropriate.Shoulddeterminationsrenderedbytaxauthoritiesultimatelyindicatethatmanagement™s

assumptionswereinappropriate,theresultandadjustmentsrequiredcouldhaveamaterialeffectonthe

Company™sresultsofoperations.Understatute,theCompany™sfederalincometaxreturnsfortheyears

2010through2013couldbeadjustedbytheInternalRevenueService,althoughexaminationsforthosetax

yearshavebeenlargelyconcluded.TheCompanyalsofilesincometaxreturnsinoverfortystatesand

numerouslocaljurisdictions.Substantiallyallmaterialstateandlocalmattershavebeenconcludedforyears

through2010.Itisnotreasonablypossibletoestimatewhenexaminationsforanysubsequentyearswillbe

completed.14314.Earningspercommonshare
Thecomputationsofbasicearningspercommonsharefollow:
YearEndedDecember31
201420132012(Inthousands,exceptpershare)
Incomeavailabletocommonshareholders:
Netincome
...........................................$1,066,246$1,138,480$1,029,498
Less:Preferredstockdividends(a)
.........................(75,878)(54,120)(53,450)
Amortizationofpreferredstockdiscount(a)
............Š
(7,942)(8,026)
Netincomeavailabletocommonequity
...................990,3681,076,418968,022
Less:Incomeattributabletounvestedstock-based
compensationawards
............................(11,837)(13,989)(14,632)
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders
................$
978,531$1,062,429$953,390
Weighted-averagesharesoutstanding:
Commonsharesoutstanding(includingcommonstock
issuable)andunvestedstock-basedcompensationawards...132,532130,354127,793
Less:Unvestedstock-basedcompensationawards
............(1,582)(1,700)(1,929)
Weighted-averagesharesoutstanding
........................130,950128,654125,864
Basicearningspercommonshare
...........................$
7.47$8.26$7.57
(a)Includingimpactofnotasyetdeclaredcumulativedividends.
Thecomputationsofdilutedearningspercommonsharefollow:
YearEndedDecember31
201420132012(Inthousands,exceptpershare)
Netincomeavailabletocommonequity
........................$990,368$1,076,418$968,022
Less:Incomeattributabletounvestedstock-based
compensationawards
...............................(11,787)(13,922)(14,593)
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders
...................$978,581$1,062,496$953,429
Adjustedweighted-averagesharesoutstanding:
Commonandunvestedstock-basedcompensationawards
.......132,532130,354127,793
Less:Unvestedstock-basedcompensationawards
..............(1,582)(1,700)(1,929)
Plus:Incrementalsharesfromassumedconversionofstock-based
compensationawardsandwarrantstopurchasecommon

stock.............................................894949541
Adjustedweighted-averagesharesoutstanding
...................131,844129,603126,405
Dilutedearningspercommonshare
............................$
7.42$8.20$7.54
GAAPdefinesunvestedshare-basedawardsthatcontainnonforfeitablerightstodividendsor
dividendequivalents(whetherpaidorunpaid)asparticipatingsecuritiesthatshallbeincludedinthe

computationofearningspercommonsharepursuanttothetwo-classmethod.TheCompanyhasissued

stock-basedcompensationawardsintheformofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunits,which,in

accordancewithGAAP,areconsideredparticipatingsecurities.
Stock-basedcompensationawardsandwarrantstopurchasecommonstockofM&Trepresenting
approximately2,017,000,3,847,000and8,905,000commonsharesduring2014,2013and2012,respectively,

werenotincludedinthecomputationsofdilutedearningspercommonsharebecausetheeffectonthose

yearswouldhavebeenantidilutive.
14415.Comprehensiveincome
Thefollowingtablesdisplaythecomponentsofothercomprehensiveincome(loss)andamountsreclassified
fromaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome(loss)tonetincome.
InvestmentSecurities
DefinedBenefitPlansOtherTotalAmountBeforeTax
IncomeTaxNetWithOTTIAllOther(Inthousands)
BalanceŠJanuary1,2014
...........$
37,25518,450(161,617)115(105,797)41,638$(64,159)
Othercomprehensiveincomebefore
reclassifications:Unrealizedholdinggains(losses),
net..........................
(29,818)180,005ŠŠ150,187(58,962)91,225
Foreigncurrencytranslation
adjustment....................ŠŠŠ
(4,039)(4,039)1,432(2,607)
Unrealizedlossesoncashflow
hedges.......................ŠŠŠ
(165)(165)65(100)
Currentyearbenefitplanslosses
....ŠŠ
(347,993)Š(347,993)136,587(211,406)
Totalothercomprehensiveincome
(loss)beforereclassifications
.......(29,818)180,005(347,993)(4,204)(202,010)79,122(122,888)
Amountsreclassifiedfromaccumulated
othercomprehensiveincomethat

(increase)decreasenetincome:
Accretionofunrealizedholdinglosses
onheld-to-maturity(ﬁHTMﬂ)

securities.....................1
3,373ŠŠ3,374(a)(1,324)2,050
Accretionoflossesonterminated
cashflowhedges
...............ŠŠŠ7
7(d)(3)4
Amortizationofpriorservice
credit........................ŠŠ
(7,911)Š(7,911)(e)3,105(4,806)
Amortizationofactuariallosses
.....ŠŠ
14,494Š14,494(e)(5,689)8,805
Totalreclassifications
...............1
3,3736,58379,964(3,911)6,053
Totalgain(loss)duringtheperiod
.....(29,817)183,378(341,410)(4,197)(192,046)75,211(116,835)
BalanceŠDecember31,2014
........$
7,438201,828(503,027)(4,082)(297,843)116,849$(180,994)
145InvestmentSecurities
DefinedBenefitPlansOtherTotalAmountBeforeTax
IncomeTaxNetWithOTTIAllOther(Inthousands)
BalanceŠJanuary1,2013
..........$
(91,835)152,199(455,590)(431)(395,657)155,393$(240,264)
Othercomprehensiveincomebefore
reclassifications:Unrealizedholdinggains(losses),
net.........................
77,794(129,628)ŠŠ(51,834)20,311(31,523)
Foreigncurrencytranslation
adjustment..................ŠŠŠ546546
(165)381
Currentyearbenefitplansgains...ŠŠ260,452Š260,452(102,227)158,225
Totalothercomprehensiveincome
(loss)beforereclassifications
......77,794(129,628)260,452546209,164(82,081)127,083
Amountsreclassifiedfrom
accumulatedothercomprehensive

incomethat(increase)decreasenet

income:Accretionofunrealizedholding
lossesonHTMsecurities
.......279
4,008ŠŠ4,287(a)(1,683)2,604
OTTIchargesrecognizedinnet
income......................9,800ŠŠŠ9,800(b)(3,847)5,953
Losses(gains)realizedinnet
income......................41,217(8,129)ŠŠ33,088(c)(12,987)20,101
Amortizationofpriorservice
credit.......................ŠŠ
(7,915)Š(7,915)(e)3,107(4,808)
Amortizationofactuariallosses
....ŠŠ
41,436Š41,436(e)(16,264)25,172
Totalreclassifications
..............51,296(4,121)33,521Š80,696(31,674)49,022
Totalgain(loss)duringtheperiod...129,090(133,749)293,973546289,860(113,755)176,105
BalanceŠDecember31,2013
.......$
37,25518,450(161,617)115(105,797)41,638$(64,159)
146InvestmentSecurities
DefinedBenefitPlansOtherTotalAmountBeforeTax
IncomeTaxNetWithOTTIAllOther(Inthousands)
BalanceŠJanuary1,2012
..........$(138,319)9,757(457,145)(1,062)(586,769)230,328$(356,441)
Othercomprehensiveincomebefore
reclassifications:Unrealizedholdinggains(losses),
net.........................
(2,998)137,921ŠŠ134,923(52,905)82,018
Foreigncurrencytranslation
adjustment...................ŠŠŠ809809
(290)519
Currentyearbenefitplanslosses...ŠŠ(29,823)Š(29,823)11,705(18,118)
Totalothercomprehensiveincome
(loss)beforereclassifications
......(2,998)137,921(29,823)809105,909(41,490)64,419
Amountsreclassifiedfrom
accumulatedothercomprehensive

incomethat(increase)decreasenet

income:Accretionofunrealizedholding
lossesonHTMsecurities
.......1,6604,530ŠŠ6,190(a)(2,430)3,760
OTTIchargesrecognizedinnet
income......................47,822ŠŠŠ47,822(b)(18,770)29,052
Gainsrealizedinnetincome
......Š(9)ŠŠ
(9)(c)4(5)
Amortizationofgainsonterminated
cashflowhedges
..............ŠŠŠ
(178)(178)(d)66(112)
Amortizationofpriorservice
credit.......................ŠŠ
(6,538)Š(6,538)(e)2,566(3,972)
Amortizationofactuariallosses
....ŠŠ
37,916Š37,916(e)(14,881)23,035
Totalreclassifications
..............49,4824,52131,378(178)85,203(33,445)51,758
Totalgainduringtheperiod
.........46,484142,4421,555631191,112(74,935)116,177
BalanceŠDecember31,2012
.......$
(91,835)152,199(455,590)(431)(395,657)155,393$(240,264)
(a)Includedininterestincome.
(b)IncludedinOTTIlossesrecognizedinearnings.

(c)Includedingain(loss)onbankinvestmentsecurities.

(d)Includedininterestexpense.

(e)Includedinsalariesandemployeebenefitsexpense.
147Accumulatedothercomprehensiveincome(loss),netconsistedofunrealizedgains(losses)asfollows:
InvestmentSecurities
DefinedBenefitPlansOtherTotalWithOTTI
AllOther
(Inthousands)
BalanceatJanuary1,2012
...............$
(84,029)$5,995$(277,716)$(691)$(356,441)
Netgain(loss)during2012
..............28,23986,586945407116,177
BalanceatDecember31,2012
............(55,790)92,581(276,771)(284)(240,264)
Netgain(loss)during2013
..............78,422(81,287)178,589381176,105
BalanceatDecember31,2013
............22,63211,294(98,182)97(64,159)
Netgain(loss)during2014
..............(18,114)111,389(207,407)(2,703)(116,835)
BalanceatDecember31,2014
............$
4,518$122,683$(305,589)$(2,606)$(180,994)
16.Otherincomeandotherexpense
Thefollowingitems,whichexceeded1%oftotalinterestincomeandotherincomeintherespectiveperiod,
wereincludedineitherﬁotherrevenuesfromoperationsﬂorﬁothercostsofoperationsﬂintheconsolidated

statementofincome:
YearEndedDecember31
201420132012(Inthousands)
Otherincome:
Bankownedlifeinsurance
...................................$
50,004$56,120$51,199
Credit-relatedfeeincome
....................................72,45472,27168,596
Letterofcreditfees
.........................................56,70859,88958,496
Gainsfromloansecuritizationtransactions
.....................63,066Otherexpense:
Professionalservices
........................................401,946335,794248,544
Amortizationofcapitalizedservicingrights
.....................68,41065,35459,555
Advertisingandpromotion
..................................56,59752,388
17.Internationalactivities
TheCompanyengagesinlimitedinternationalactivitiesincludingcertaintrust-relatedservicesinEurope
andtheCaymanIslands,collectingEurodollardeposits,engaginginforeigncurrencytradingonbehalfof

customers,providingcredittosupporttheinternationalactivitiesofdomesticcompaniesandholding

certainloanstoforeignborrowers.Revenuesfromprovidinginternationaltrust-relatedserviceswere

approximately$31millionin2014,$26millionin2013and$24millionin2012.Netassetsidentifiedwith

internationalactivitiesamountedto$232millionand$226millionatDecember31,2014and2013,

respectively.Suchassetsincluded$213millionand$192million,respectively,ofloanstoforeignborrowers.

DepositsatM&TBank™sCaymanIslandsofficewere$177millionand$323millionatDecember31,2014

and2013,respectively.TheCompanyusessuchdepositstofacilitatecustomerdemandandasanalternative

toshort-termborrowingswhenthecostsofsuchdepositsseemreasonable.
18.Derivativefinancialinstruments
Aspartofmanaginginterestraterisk,theCompanyentersintointerestrateswapagreementstomodifythe

repricingcharacteristicsofcertainportionsoftheCompany™sportfoliosofearningassetsandinterest-

bearingliabilities.TheCompanydesignatesinterestrateswapagreementsutilizedinthemanagementof

interestrateriskaseitherfairvaluehedgesorcashflowhedges.Interestrateswapagreementsaregenerally

enteredintowithcounterpartiesthatmeetestablishedcreditstandardsandmostcontainmasternettingand

collateralprovisionsprotectingtheat-riskparty.BasedonadherencetotheCompany™screditstandardsand

thepresenceofthenettingandcollateralprovisions,theCompanybelievesthatthecreditriskinherentin

thesecontractswasnotsignificantasofDecember31,2014.
148Theneteffectofinterestrateswapagreementswastoincreasenetinterestincomeby$45millionin
2014,$41millionin2013and$36millionin2012.Theaveragenotionalamountsofinterestrateswap

agreementsimpactingnetinterestincomethatwereenteredintoforinterestrateriskmanagementpurposes

were$1.4billionin2014,$1.2billionin2013and$900millionin2012.
Informationaboutinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintoforinterestrateriskmanagement
purposessummarizedbytypeoffinancialinstrumenttheswapagreementswereintendedtohedgefollows:
NotionalAmountAverageMaturityWeighted-AverageRateEstimatedFair
ValueGain
FixedVariable(Inthousands)(Inyears)(Inthousands)
December31,2014
Fairvaluehedges:

Fixedratelong-termborrowings(a)
............$1,400,0002.74.42%1.19%$73,251
December31,2013
Fairvaluehedges:

Fixedratelong-termborrowings(a)
............$1,400,0003.74.42%1.20%$102,875
(a)Underthetermsoftheseagreements,theCompanyreceivessettlementamountsatafixedrateandpaysata
variablerate.
Thenotionalamountofinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintoforriskmanagementpurposesthat
wereoutstandingatDecember31,2014matureasfollows:
(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2016.......................................................................$
500,0002017.......................................................................400,0002018.......................................................................500,000$1,400,000TheCompanyutilizescommitmentstosellresidentialandcommercialrealestateloanstohedgethe
exposuretochangesinthefairvalueofrealestateloansheldforsale.Suchcommitmentshavegenerally

beendesignatedasfairvaluehedges.TheCompanyalsoutilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloansto

offsettheexposuretochangesinfairvalueofcertaincommitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsale.
Derivativefinancialinstrumentsusedfortradingaccountpurposesincludedinterestratecontracts,
foreignexchangeandotheroptioncontracts,foreignexchangeforwardandspotcontracts,andfinancial

futures.Interestratecontractsenteredintofortradingaccountpurposeshadnotionalvaluesof$17.6billion

and$17.4billionatDecember31,2014and2013,respectively.Thenotionalamountsofforeigncurrency

andotheroptionandfuturescontractsenteredintofortradingaccountpurposesaggregated$1.3billion

and$1.4billionatDecember31,2014and2013,respectively.
149InformationaboutthefairvaluesofderivativeinstrumentsintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalance
sheetandconsolidatedstatementofincomefollows:
AssetDerivatives
FairValue
December31
LiabilityDerivatives
FairValue
December31
2014201320142013(Inthousands)
Derivativesdesignatedandqualifyingashedginginstruments
Fairvaluehedges:

Interestrateswapagreements(a)
............................$
73,251$102,875$Š$Š
Commitmentstosellrealestateloans(a)
......................728
6,9574,217487
73,979109,8324,217487
Derivativesnotdesignatedandqualifyingashedginginstruments

Mortgage-relatedcommitmentstooriginaterealestateloansfor
sale(a)................................................17,3967,616493,675
Commitmentstosellrealestateloans(a)
......................754
6,1204,330230
Trading:Interestratecontracts(b)
.................................215,614274,864173,513234,455
Foreignexchangeandotheroptionandfuturescontracts(b)
....31,11215,83129,95015,342
264,876304,431207,842253,702
Totalderivatives
..........................................$338,855$414,263$212,059$254,189
(a)Assetderivativesarereportedinotherassetsandliabilityderivativesarereportedinotherliabilities.
(b)Assetderivativesarereportedintradingaccountassetsandliabilityderivativesarereportedinotherliabilities.
AmountofUnrealizedGain(Loss)Recognized
YearEnded
December31,2014
YearEnded
December31,2013
YearEnded
December31,2012
DerivativeHedgedItem
DerivativeHedgedItem
DerivativeHedgedItem
(Inthousands)
Derivativesinfairvaluehedging
relationshipsInterestrateswapagreements:

Fixedratelong-termborrowings(a)
........$(29,624)$28,870$(40,304)$38,986$(4,123)$3,724
Derivativesnotdesignatedashedging
instrumentsTrading:
Interestratecontracts(b)
.................$
3,398$9,824$8,004
Foreignexchangeandotheroptionand
futurescontracts(b)
...................(6,719)(3,369)(3,970)
Total.................................$
(3,321)$6,455$4,034
(a)Reportedasotherrevenuesfromoperations.
(b)Reportedastradingaccountandforeignexchangegains.
Inaddition,theCompanyalsohascommitmentstosellandcommitmentstooriginateresidential
andcommercialrealestateloansthatareconsideredderivatives.TheCompanydesignatescertainofthe

commitmentstosellrealestateloansasfairvaluehedgesofrealestateloansheldforsale.TheCompanyalso

utilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloanstooffsettheexposuretochangesinthefairvalueofcertain

commitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsale.Asaresultoftheseactivities,netunrealizedpre-taxgains

relatedtohedgedloansheldforsale,commitmentstooriginateloansforsaleandcommitmentstosellloans
150wereapproximately$28millionand$23millionatDecember31,2014and2013,respectively.Changesin
unrealizedgainsandlossesareincludedinmortgagebankingrevenuesand,ingeneral,arerealizedin

subsequentperiodsastherelatedloansaresoldandcommitmentssatisfied.
TheCompanydoesnotoffsetderivativeassetandliabilitypositionsinitsconsolidatedfinancial
statements.TheCompany™sexposuretocreditriskbyenteringintoderivativecontractsismitigatedthrough

masternettingagreementsandcollateralpostingrequirements.Masternettingagreementscoveringinterest

rateandforeignexchangecontractswiththesamepartyincludearighttoset-offthatbecomesenforceable

intheeventofdefault,earlyterminationorunderotherspecificconditions.
Theaggregatefairvalueofderivativefinancialinstrumentsinaliabilityposition,whicharesubjectto
enforceablemasternettingarrangements,was$161millionand$194millionatDecember31,2014and

2013,respectively.Afterconsiderationofsuchnettingarrangements,thenetliabilitypositionswith

counterpartiesaggregated$103millionand$107millionatDecember31,2014and2013,respectively.The

Companywasrequiredtopostcollateralrelatingtothosepositionsof$90millionand$95millionat

December31,2014and2013,respectively.CertainoftheCompany™sderivativefinancialinstruments

containprovisionsthatrequiretheCompanytomaintainspecificcreditratingsfromcreditratingagencies

toavoidhighercollateralpostingrequirements.IftheCompany™sdebtratingweretofallbelowspecified

ratings,thecounterpartiestothederivativefinancialinstrumentscoulddemandimmediateincremental

collateralizationonthoseinstrumentsinanetliabilityposition.Theaggregatefairvalueofallderivative

financialinstrumentswithsuchcreditrisk-relatedcontingentfeaturesinanetliabilitypositionon

December31,2014was$22million,forwhichtheCompanyhadpostedcollateralof$14millioninthe

normalcourseofbusiness.Ifthecreditrisk-relatedcontingentfeatureshadbeentriggeredonDecember31,

2014,themaximumamountofadditionalcollateraltheCompanywouldhavebeenrequiredtopostwith

counterpartieswas$8million.
Theaggregatefairvalueofderivativefinancialinstrumentsinanassetposition,whicharesubjectto
enforceablemasternettingarrangements,was$104millionand$183millionatDecember31,2014and

2013,respectively.Afterconsiderationofsuchnettingarrangements,thenetassetpositionswith

counterpartiesaggregated$46millionand$95millionatDecember31,2014and2013,respectively.

Counterpartiespostedcollateralrelatingtothosepositionsof$46millionand$93millionatDecember31,

2014and2013,respectively.Tradingaccountinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintowithcustomersare

subjecttotheCompany™screditriskstandardsandoftencontaincollateralprovisions.
Inadditiontothederivativecontractsnotedabove,theCompanyclearscertainderivative
transactionsthroughaclearinghouse,ratherthandirectlywithcounterparties.Thosetransactionscleared

throughaclearinghouserequireinitialmargincollateralandadditionalcollateralforcontractsinanet

liabilityposition.Thenetfairvaluesofderivativeinstrumentsclearedthroughclearinghousesat

December31,2014wasanetliabilitypositionof$35millionandatDecember31,2013wasanetasset

positionof$5million.Collateralpostedwithclearinghouseswas$61millionand$14millionat

December31,2014andDecember31,2013,respectively.
19.Variableinterestentitiesandassetsecuritizations
During2013,theCompanysecuritizedapproximately$3.0billionofone-to-fourfamilyresidential

mortgageloansinguaranteedmortgagesecuritizationswithGinnieMae.Approximately$1.3billionofsuch

loanswereformerlyheldintheCompany™sloanportfolio,whereastheremainingloanswerenewly

originated.TheCompanyrecognizedpre-taxgainsof$42millionrelatedtoloanspreviouslyheldfor

investment,whichwererecordedinﬁotherrevenuesfromoperations,ﬂandpre-taxgainsof$28millionon

newlyoriginatedloans,whichwerereflectedinﬁmortgagebankingrevenues.ﬂAsaresultofthe

securitizationstructure,theCompanydoesnothaveeffectivecontrolovertheunderlyingloansandexpects

nomaterialcredit-relatedlossesontheretainedsecuritiesasaresultoftheguaranteesbyGinnieMae.In

similartransactionsduring2014,theCompanysecuritized$133millionofone-to-fourfamilyresidential

realestateloansthathadbeenoriginatedforsaleinguaranteedmortgagesecuritizationswithGinnieMae

andretainedtheresultingsecuritiesinitsinvestmentsecuritiesportfolio.Pre-taxgainsonsuchtransactions

werenotmaterial.Additionally,in2013theCompanysecuritizedandsoldapproximately$1.4billionof

automobileloansthathadbeenheldinitsloanportfolio.TheCompanyrecognizedagainof$21million

relatedtothesale,whichwasrecordedinﬁotherrevenuesfromoperations.ﬂTheCompanycontinuesto

servicetheautomobileloans,buthasnootherfinancialinterestinthesecuritizationtrustthattheloanswere

soldinto.TheCompanyhassecuritizedloanstoimproveitsregulatorycapitalratiosandstrengthenits

liquidityandriskprofileasaresultofchangingregulatoryliquidityandcapitalrequirements.
151InaccordancewithGAAP,theCompanydeterminedthatitwastheprimarybeneficiaryofa
residentialmortgageloansecuritizationtrustconsideringitsroleasserviceranditsretainedsubordinated

interestsinthetrust.Asaresult,theCompanyhasincludedtheone-to-fourfamilyresidentialmortgage

loansthatwereincludedinthetrustinitsconsolidatedfinancialstatements.AtDecember31,2014and

2013,thecarryingvaluesoftheloansinthesecuritizationtrustwere$98millionand$121million,

respectively.Theoutstandingprincipalamountofmortgage-backedsecuritiesissuedbythequalifiedspecial

purposetrustthatwasheldbypartiesunrelatedtoM&TatDecember31,2014and2013was$15million

and$18million,respectively.Becausethetransactionwasnon-recourse,theCompany™smaximum

exposuretolossasaresultofitsassociationwiththetrustatDecember31,2014islimitedtorealizingthe

carryingvalueoftheloanslesstheamountofthemortgage-backedsecuritiesheldbythirdparties.
Asdescribedinnote9,M&Thasissuedjuniorsubordinateddebenturespayabletovarioustruststhat
haveissuedCapitalSecurities.M&Townsthecommonsecuritiesofthosetrustentities.TheCompanyisnot

consideredtobetheprimarybeneficiaryofthoseentitiesand,accordingly,thetrustsarenotincludedinthe

Company™sconsolidatedfinancialstatements.AtDecember31,2014and2013,theCompanyincludedthe

juniorsubordinateddebenturesasﬁlong-termborrowingsﬂinitsconsolidatedbalancesheet.TheCompany

hasrecognized$34millioninotherassetsforitsﬁinvestmentﬂinthecommonsecuritiesofthetruststhat

willbeconcomitantlyrepaidtoM&TbytherespectivetrustfromtheproceedsofM&T™srepaymentofthe

juniorsubordinateddebenturesassociatedwithpreferredcapitalsecuritiesdescribedinnote9.
TheCompanyhasinvestedasalimitedpartnerinvariouspartnershipsthatcollectivelyhadtotal
assetsofapproximately$1.2billionatDecember31,2014and$1.3billionatDecember31,2013.Those

partnershipsgenerallyconstructoracquirepropertiesforwhichtheinvestingpartnersareeligibletoreceive

certainfederalincometaxcreditsinaccordancewithgovernmentguidelines.Suchinvestmentsmayalso

providetaxdeductiblelossestothepartners.ThepartnershipinvestmentsalsoassisttheCompanyin

achievingitscommunityreinvestmentinitiatives.Asalimitedpartner,thereisnorecoursetotheCompany

bycreditorsofthepartnerships.However,thetaxcreditsthatresultfromtheCompany™sinvestmentsin

suchpartnershipsaregenerallysubjecttorecaptureshouldapartnershipfailtocomplywiththerespective

governmentregulations.TheCompany™smaximumexposuretolossofitsinvestmentsinsuchpartnerships

was$243million,including$56millionofunfundedcommitments,atDecember31,2014and$236million,

including$45millionofunfundedcommitments,atDecember31,2013.TheCompanyhasnotprovided

financialorothersupporttothepartnershipsthatwasnotcontractuallyrequired.Managementcurrently

estimatesthatnomateriallossesareprobableasaresultoftheCompany™sinvolvementwithsuchentities.

TheCompany,initspositionaslimitedpartner,doesnotdirecttheactivitiesthatmostsignificantlyimpact

theeconomicperformanceofthepartnershipsand,therefore,inaccordancewiththeaccountingprovisions

forvariableinterestentities,thepartnershipentitiesarenotincludedintheCompany™sconsolidated

financialstatements.
20.Fairvaluemeasurements
GAAPpermitsanentitytochoosetomeasureeligiblefinancialinstrumentsandotheritemsatfairvalue.

TheCompanyhasnotmadeanyfairvalueelectionsatDecember31,2014.
PursuanttoGAAP,fairvalueisdefinedasthepricethatwouldbereceivedtosellanassetorpaidto
transferaliabilityinanorderlytransactionbetweenmarketparticipantsatthemeasurementdate.Athree-

levelhierarchyexistsinGAAPforfairvaluemeasurementsbasedupontheinputstothevaluationofan

assetorliability.
†Level1ŠValuationisbasedonquotedpricesinactivemarketsforidenticalassetsandliabilities.

†Level2ŠValuationisdeterminedfromquotedpricesforsimilarassetsorliabilitiesinactive
markets,quotedpricesforidenticalorsimilarinstrumentsinmarketsthatarenotactiveorby

model-basedtechniquesinwhichallsignificantinputsareobservableinthemarket.
†Level3ŠValuationisderivedfrommodel-basedandothertechniquesinwhichatleastone
significantinputisunobservableandwhichmaybebasedontheCompany™sownestimatesabout

theassumptionsthatmarketparticipantswouldusetovaluetheassetorliability.
Whenavailable,theCompanyattemptstousequotedmarketpricesinactivemarketstodetermine
fairvalueandclassifiessuchitemsasLevel1orLevel2.Ifquotedmarketpricesinactivemarketsarenot

available,fairvalueisoftendeterminedusingmodel-basedtechniquesincorporatingvariousassumptions

includinginterestrates,prepaymentspeedsandcreditlosses.Assetsandliabilitiesvaluedusingmodel-based

techniquesareclassifiedaseitherLevel2orLevel3,dependingonthelowestlevelclassificationofaninput
152thatisconsideredsignificanttotheoverallvaluation.Thefollowingisadescriptionofthevaluation
methodologiesusedfortheCompany™sassetsandliabilitiesthataremeasuredonarecurringbasisat

estimatedfairvalue.
Tradingaccountassetsandliabilities
Tradingaccountassetsandliabilitiesconsistprimarilyofinterestrateswapagreementsandforeign

exchangecontractswithcustomerswhorequiresuchserviceswithoffsettingpositionswiththirdpartiesto

minimizetheCompany™sriskwithrespecttosuchtransactions.TheCompanygenerallydeterminesthefair

valueofitsderivativetradingaccountassetsandliabilitiesusingexternallydevelopedpricingmodelsbased

onmarketobservableinputsand,therefore,classifiessuchvaluationsasLevel2.Mutualfundsheldin

connectionwithdeferredcompensationarrangementshavebeenclassifiedasLevel1valuations.Valuations

ofinvestmentsinmunicipalandotherbondscangenerallybeobtainedthroughreferencetoquotedprices

inlessactivemarketsforthesameorsimilarsecuritiesorthroughmodel-basedtechniquesinwhichall

significantinputsareobservableand,therefore,suchvaluationshavebeenclassifiedasLevel2.
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale
ThemajorityoftheCompany™savailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritieshavebeenvaluedbyreferenceto

pricesforsimilarsecuritiesorthroughmodel-basedtechniquesinwhichallsignificantinputsareobservable

and,therefore,suchvaluationshavebeenclassifiedasLevel2.Certaininvestmentsinmutualfundsand

equitysecuritiesareactivelytradedand,therefore,havebeenclassifiedasLevel1valuations.
Asdiscussedinnote3,theCompanysoldsubstantiallyallofitsprivatelyissuedmortgage-backed
securitiesclassifiedasavailableforsaleduringthesecondquarterof2013.Inpriorperiods,theCompany

generallyusedmodel-basedtechniquestovaluesuchsecuritiesbecausetheCompanywassignificantly

restrictedinthelevelofmarketobservableassumptionsthatcouldbereliedupon.Specifically,market

assumptionsregardingcreditadjustedcashflowsandliquidityinfluencesondiscountratesweredifficultto

observeattheindividualbondlevel.Becauseoftheinactivityinthemarketsandthelackofobservable

valuationinputs,theCompanyclassifiedthevaluationofprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesas

Level3.
Includedincollateralizeddebtobligationsaresecuritiesbackedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedby
financialinstitutionsandotherentities.TheCompanycouldnotobtainpricingindicationsformanyof

thesesecuritiesfromitstwoprimaryindependentpricingsources.TheCompany,therefore,performed

internalmodelingtoestimatethecashflowsandfairvalueofitsportfolioofsecuritiesbackedbytrust

preferredsecuritiesatDecember31,2014and2013.Themodelingtechniquesincludedestimatingcash

flowsusingbond-specificassumptionsaboutfuturecollateraldefaultsandrelatedlossseverities.The

resultingcashflowswerethendiscountedbyreferencetomarketyieldsobservedinthesingle-nametrust

preferredsecuritiesmarket.Indeterminingamarketyieldapplicabletotheestimatedcashflows,amargin

overLIBOR,rangingfrom5%to10%withaweighted-averageof8%wasused.Significantunobservable

inputsusedinthedeterminationofestimatedfairvalueofcollateralizeddebtobligationsareincludedinthe

accompanyingtableofsignificantunobservableinputstoLevel3measurements.AtDecember31,2014,the

totalamortizedcostandfairvalueofsecuritiesbackedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancial

institutionsandotherentitieswere$30millionand$50million,respectively,andatDecember31,2013

were$42millionand$63million,respectively.Privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesandsecurities

backedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutionsandotherentitiesconstitutedallofthe

available-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesclassifiedasLevel3valuations.
TheCompanyensuresanappropriatecontrolframeworkisinplaceoverthevaluationprocessesand
techniquesusedforsignificantLevel3fairvaluemeasurements.Internalpricingmodelsusedforsignificant

valuationmeasurementshavegenerallybeensubjectedtovalidationproceduresincludingtestingof

mathematicalconstructs,reviewofvaluationmethodologyandsignificantassumptionsused.
Realestateloansheldforsale
TheCompanyutilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloanstohedgetheexposuretochangesinfairvalueof

realestateloansheldforsale.Thecarryingvalueofhedgedrealestateloansheldforsaleincludeschangesin

estimatedfairvalueduringthehedgeperiod.Typically,theCompanyattemptstohedgerealestateloans

heldforsalefromthedateofclosethroughthesaledate.Thefairvalueofhedgedrealestateloansheldfor

saleisgenerallycalculatedbyreferencetoquotedpricesinsecondarymarketsforcommitmentstosellreal

estateloanswithsimilarcharacteristicsand,accordingly,suchloanshavebeenclassifiedasaLevel2

valuation.153Commitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsaleandcommitmentstosellrealestateloans
TheCompanyentersintovariouscommitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsaleandcommitmentsto

sellrealestateloans.Suchcommitmentsareconsideredtobederivativefinancialinstrumentsand,therefore,

arecarriedatestimatedfairvalueontheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Theestimatedfairvaluesofsuch

commitmentsweregenerallycalculatedbyreferencetoquotedpricesinsecondarymarketsfor

commitmentstosellrealestateloanstocertaingovernment-sponsoredentitiesandotherparties.Thefair

valuationsofcommitmentstosellrealestateloansgenerallyresultinaLevel2classification.Theestimated

fairvalueofcommitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsaleareadjustedtoreflecttheCompany™s

anticipatedcommitmentexpirations.Theestimatedcommitmentexpirationsareconsideredsignificant

unobservableinputscontributingtotheLevel3classificationofcommitmentstooriginaterealestateloans

forsale.Significantunobservableinputsusedinthedeterminationofestimatedfairvalueofcommitments

tooriginaterealestateloansforsaleareincludedintheaccompanyingtableofsignificantunobservable

inputstoLevel3measurements.
Interestrateswapagreementsusedforinterestrateriskmanagement
TheCompanyutilizesinterestrateswapagreementsaspartofthemanagementofinterestrateriskto

modifytherepricingcharacteristicsofcertainportionsofitsportfoliosofearningassetsandinterest-bearing

liabilities.TheCompanygenerallydeterminesthefairvalueofitsinterestrateswapagreementsusing

externallydevelopedpricingmodelsbasedonmarketobservableinputsand,therefore,classifiessuch

valuationsasLevel2.TheCompanyhasconsideredcounterpartycreditriskinthevaluationofitsinterest

rateswapagreementassetsandhasconsidereditsowncreditriskinthevaluationofitsinterestrateswap

agreementliabilities.
ThefollowingtablespresentassetsandliabilitiesatDecember31,2014and2013measuredatestimated
fairvalueonarecurringbasis:
FairValue
Measurementsat
December31,
2014Level1(a)
Level2(a)
Level3
(Inthousands)
Tradingaccountassets
...........................$
308,17551,416256,759Š
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
................161,947Š161,947Š
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
......8,198Š8,198Š
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
..............8,731,123Š8,731,123Š
Privatelyissued
.............................103ŠŠ103
Collateralizeddebtobligations
...................50,316ŠŠ50,316
Otherdebtsecurities
...........................121,488Š121,488Š
Equitysecurities
...............................83,75764,84118,916Š
9,156,93264,8419,041,67250,419
Realestateloansheldforsale
......................742,249Š742,249Š
Otherassets(b)
..................................92,129Š74,73317,396
Totalassets
...................................$10,299,485116,25710,115,41367,815
Tradingaccountliabilities
.........................$
203,464Š203,464Š
Otherliabilities(b)
...............................8,596Š8,54749
Totalliabilities
................................$
212,060Š212,01149
154FairValue
Measurementsat
December31,
2013Level1(a)
Level2(a)
Level3
(Inthousands)
Tradingaccountassets
.............................$
376,13151,386324,745Š
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
.................37,776Š37,776Š
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
.......10,811Š10,811Š
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
...............4,165,086Š4,165,086Š
Privatelyissued
...............................1,850ŠŠ1,850
Collateralizeddebtobligations
....................63,083ŠŠ63,083
Otherdebtsecurities
............................120,085Š120,085Š
Equitysecurities
................................133,09582,45050,645Š
4,531,78682,4504,384,40364,933
Realestateloansheldforsale
........................468,650Š468,650Š
Otherassets(b)
...................................123,568Š115,9527,616
Totalassets
....................................$5,500,135133,8365,293,75072,549
Tradingaccountliabilities
..........................$
249,797Š249,797Š
Otherliabilities(b)
................................4,392Š7173,675
Totalliabilities
.................................$
254,189Š250,5143,675
(a)TherewerenosignificanttransfersbetweenLevel1andLevel2ofthefairvaluehierarchyduringtheyearsended
December31,2014and2013.
(b)Comprisedpredominantlyofinterestrateswapagreementsusedforinterestrateriskmanagement(Level2),
commitmentstosellrealestateloans(Level2)andcommitmentstooriginaterealestateloanstobeheldforsale

(Level3).
ThechangesinLevel3assetsandliabilitiesmeasuredatestimatedfairvalueonarecurringbasis
duringtheyearendedDecember31,2014wereasfollows:
InvestmentSecuritiesAvailableforSale
OtherAssetsand
OtherLiabilitiesPrivatelyIssued
Mortgage-backedSecuritiesCollateralizedDebtObligations(Inthousands)
BalanceŠJanuary1,2014
...........................$
1,850$63,083$3,941
Totalgainsrealized/unrealized:
Includedinearnings
..............................ŠŠ
83,417(b)Includedinothercomprehensiveincome
.............271(e)8,209(e)Š
Settlements........................................(2,018)(20,976)Š
Transfersinand/oroutofLevel3(c)
...................ŠŠ
(70,011)(d)BalanceŠDecember31,2014
........................$103$
50,316$17,347
Changesinunrealizedgainsincludedinearningsrelatedto
assetsstillheldatDecember31,2014
.................$Š$Š$
18,196(b)155ThechangesinLevel3assetsandliabilitiesmeasuredatestimatedfairvalueonarecurringbasis
duringtheyearendedDecember31,2013wereasfollows:
InvestmentSecuritiesAvailableforSale
OtherAssetsand
OtherLiabilitiesPrivatelyIssuedMortgage-backedSecuritiesCollateralizedDebtObligations(Inthousands)
BalanceŠJanuary1,2013
.........................$1,023,886$61,869$47,859
Totalgains(losses)realized/unrealized:
Includedinearnings
............................(56,102)(a)Š97,845(b)
Includedinothercomprehensiveincome
...........116,359(e)4,508(e)Š
Sales...........................................(978,608)ŠŠ
Settlements.....................................(103,685)(3,294)Š
Transfersinand/oroutofLevel3(c)
.................ŠŠ
(141,763)(d)BalanceŠDecember31,2013
......................$
1,850$63,083$3,941
Changesinunrealizedgainsincludedinearningsrelated
toassetsstillheldatDecember31,2013
............$Š$Š$
3,431(b)ThechangesinLevel3assetsandliabilitiesmeasuredatestimatedfairvalueonarecurringbasis
duringtheyearendedDecember31,2012wereasfollows:
InvestmentSecuritiesAvailableforSale
OtherAssets
andOther
LiabilitiesPrivatelyIssuedMortgage-backedSecuritiesCollateralizedDebtObligations(Inthousands)
BalanceŠJanuary1,2012
..........................$1,151,285$52,500$6,923
Totalgains(losses)realized/unrealized:
Includedinearnings
.............................(42,467)(a)Š212,281(b)
Includedinothercomprehensiveincome
............114,592(e)12,214(e)Š
Settlements.......................................(199,524)(2,845)Š
Transfersinand/oroutofLevel3(c)
..................ŠŠ
(171,345)(d)BalanceŠDecember31,2012
.......................$1,023,886$61,869$47,859
Changesinunrealizedgains(losses)includedinearnings
relatedtoassetsstillheldatDecember31,2012
.......$
(42,467)(a)$Š$47,859(b)
(a)ReportedasanOTTIimpairmentlossorasgain(loss)onbankinvestmentsecuritiesintheconsolidated
statementofincome.
(b)Reportedasmortgagebankingrevenuesintheconsolidatedstatementofincomeandincludesthefairvalueof
commitmentissuancesandexpirations.
(c)TheCompany™spolicyfortransfersbetweenfairvaluelevelsistorecognizethetransferasoftheactualdateofthe
eventorchangeincircumstancesthatcausedthetransfer.
(d)TransfersoutofLevel3consistofinterestratelockstransferredtoclosedloans.

(e)Reportedasnetunrealizedgainsoninvestmentsecuritiesintheconsolidatedstatementofcomprehensiveincome.
156TheCompanyisrequired,onanonrecurringbasis,toadjustthecarryingvalueofcertainassetsor
providevaluationallowancesrelatedtocertainassetsusingfairvaluemeasurements.Themoresignificantof

thoseassetsfollow.
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity
During2012,other-than-temporarylossesof$5millionwererecordedrelatedtocertainmortgage-backed

securities.InaccordancewithGAAP,thecarryingvalueofsuchsecuritieswasreducedtofairvalue,with

estimatedcreditlossesrecognizedinearningsandanyremainingunrealizedlossrecognizedinaccumulated

othercomprehensiveincome.Thedeterminationoffairvalueincludeduseofexternalandinternal

valuationsourcesthatwereweightedandaveragedwhenestimatingfairvalue.Duetothepresenceof

significantunobservableinputsthosevaluationswereclassifiedasLevel3.Theamortizedcost,fairvalueand

impactontheCompany™sfinancialstatementsofthemodelingdescribedhereinwerenotmaterial.Nosuch

other-than-temporarylosseswererecordedin2013or2014.
LoansLoansaregenerallynotrecordedatfairvalueonarecurringbasis.Periodically,theCompanyrecords

nonrecurringadjustmentstothecarryingvalueofloansbasedonfairvaluemeasurementsforpartial

charge-offsoftheuncollectibleportionsofthoseloans.Nonrecurringadjustmentsalsoincludecertain

impairmentamountsforcollateral-dependentloanswhenestablishingtheallowanceforcreditlosses.Such

amountsaregenerallybasedonthefairvalueoftheunderlyingcollateralsupportingtheloanand,asa

result,thecarryingvalueoftheloanlessthecalculatedvaluationamountdoesnotnecessarilyrepresentthe

fairvalueoftheloan.Realestatecollateralistypicallyvaluedusingappraisalsorotherindicationsofvalue

basedonrecentcomparablesalesofsimilarpropertiesorassumptionsgenerallyobservableinthe

marketplaceandtherelatednonrecurringfairvaluemeasurementadjustmentshavegenerallybeenclassified

asLevel2,unlesssignificantadjustmentshavebeenmadetothevaluationthatarenotreadilyobservableby

marketparticipants.Non-realestatecollateralsupportingcommercialloansgenerallyconsistsofbusiness

assetssuchasreceivables,inventoryandequipment.Fairvalueestimationsaretypicallydeterminedby

discountingrecordedvaluesofthoseassetstoreflectestimatednetrealizablevalueconsideringspecific

borrowerfactsandcircumstancesandtheexperienceofcreditpersonnelintheirdealingswithsimilar

borrowercollateralliquidations.Suchdiscountsweregenerallyintherangeof15%to90%atDecember31,

2014.Asthesediscountsarenotreadilyobservableandareconsideredsignificant,thevaluationshavebeen

classifiedasLevel3.Loanssubjecttononrecurringfairvaluemeasurementwere$173millionat

December31,2014,($94millionand$79millionofwhichwereclassifiedasLevel2andLevel3,

respectively),$222millionatDecember31,2013($173millionand$49millionofwhichwereclassifiedas

Level2andLevel3,respectively),and$335millionatDecember31,2012($207millionand$128millionof

whichwereclassifiedasLevel2andLevel3,respectively).Changesinfairvaluerecognizedduringtheyears

endedDecember31,2014,2013and2012forpartialcharge-offsofloansandloanimpairmentreserveson

loansheldbytheCompanyattheendofeachofthoseyearsweredecreasesof$55million,$58millionand

$67million,respectively.
Assetstakeninforeclosureofdefaultedloans
Assetstakeninforeclosureofdefaultedloansareprimarilycomprisedofcommercialandresidentialreal

propertyandaregenerallymeasuredatthelowerofcostorfairvaluelesscoststosell.Thefairvalueofthe

realpropertyisgenerallydeterminedusingappraisalsorotherindicationsofvaluebasedonrecent

comparablesalesofsimilarpropertiesorassumptionsgenerallyobservableinthemarketplace,andthe

relatednonrecurringfairvaluemeasurementadjustmentshavegenerallybeenclassifiedasLevel2.Assets

takeninforeclosureofdefaultedloanssubjecttononrecurringfairvaluemeasurementwere$19millionand

$29millionatDecember31,2014andDecember31,2013,respectively.Changesinfairvaluerecognizedfor

thoseforeclosedassetsheldbytheCompanywerenotmaterialduringeachof2014,2013and2012.
157Significantunobservableinputstolevel3measurements
Thefollowingtablespresentquantitativeinformationaboutsignificantunobservableinputsusedinthefair

valuemeasurementsforLevel3assetsandliabilitiesatDecember31,2014and2013:
FairValueat
December31,
2014ValuationTechniqueUnobservableInput/AssumptionsRange(Weighted-Average)(Inthousands)
Recurringfairvalue
measurements:PrivatelyissuedmortgageŒ
backedsecurities
.......$103
Twoindependent
pricingquotesŠŠ
Collateralizeddebt
obligations...........50,316DiscountedcashflowProbabilityofdefault12%-57%(36%)
Lossseverity100%
Netotherassets
(liabilities)(a).........17,347Discountedcashflow
Commitmentexpirations0%-96%(17%)
(a)OtherLevel3assets(liabilities)consistofcommitmentstooriginaterealestateloans.
FairValueat
December31,
2013ValuationTechniqueUnobservableInput/AssumptionsRange(Weighted-Average)(Inthousands)
Recurringfairvalue
measurements:PrivatelyissuedmortgageŒ
backedsecurities
.......$
1,850Twoindependent
pricingquotesŠŠ
Collateralizeddebt
obligations...........63,083DiscountedcashflowProbabilityofdefault17%-55%(39%)
Lossseverity100%
Netotherassets
(liabilities)(a).........3,941Discountedcash
flowCommitmentexpirations0%-90%(20%)
(a)OtherLevel3assets(liabilities)consistofcommitmentstooriginaterealestateloans.
Sensitivityoffairvaluemeasurementstochangesinunobservableinputs
Anincrease(decrease)intheprobabilityofdefaultandlossseverityforcollateralizeddebtsecuritieswould

generallyresultinalower(higher)fairvaluemeasurement.
Anincrease(decrease)intheestimateofexpirationsforcommitmentstooriginaterealestateloans
wouldgenerallyresultinalower(higher)fairvaluemeasurement.Estimatedcommitmentexpirationsare

derivedconsideringloantype,changesininterestratesandremaininglengthoftimeuntilclosing.
158Disclosuresoffairvalueoffinancialinstruments
Thecarryingamountsandestimatedfairvalueforfinancialinstrumentassets(liabilities)arepresentedin

thefollowingtable:
December31,2014
CarryingAmountEstimatedFairValue
Level1
Level2
Level3
(Inthousands)
Financialassets:
Cashandcashequivalents
..........$
1,373,357$1,373,357$1,296,923$76,434$Š
Interest-bearingdepositsatbanks...6,470,8676,470,867Š6,470,867Š

Tradingaccountassets
............308,175308,17551,416256,759Š
Investmentsecurities
..............12,993,54213,023,95664,84112,750,396208,719
Loansandleases:
Commercialloansandleases
.....19,461,29219,188,574ŠŠ19,188,574
Commercialrealestateloans
.....27,567,56927,487,818Š307,66727,180,151
Residentialrealestateloans
.......8,657,3018,729,056Š5,189,0863,539,970
Consumerloans
................10,982,79410,909,623ŠŠ10,909,623
Allowanceforcreditlosses
.......(919,562)ŠŠŠŠ
Loansandleases,net
..........65,749,39466,315,071Š5,496,75360,818,318
Accruedinterestreceivable
.........227,348227,348Š227,348Š
Financialliabilities:
Noninterest-bearingdeposits
.......$(26,947,880)$(26,947,880)Š$(26,947,880)Š
SavingsdepositsandNOW
accounts......................(43,393,618)(43,393,618)Š(43,393,618)Š
Timedeposits
....................(3,063,973)(3,086,126)Š(3,086,126)Š
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice...(176,582)(176,582)Š(176,582)Š

Short-termborrowings
............(192,676)(192,676)Š(192,676)Š
Long-termborrowings
............(9,006,959)(9,139,789)Š(9,139,789)Š
Accruedinterestpayable
...........(63,372)(63,372)Š(63,372)Š
Tradingaccountliabilities
..........(203,464)(203,464)Š(203,464)Š
Otherfinancialinstruments:
Commitmentstooriginaterealestate
loansforsale
..................$
17,347$17,347Š$Š$17,347
Commitmentstosellrealestate
loans.........................(7,065)(7,065)Š(7,065)Š
Othercredit-relatedcommitments...(119,079)(119,079)ŠŠ(119,079)

Interestrateswapagreementsusedfor
interestrateriskmanagement
.....73,25173,251Š73,251Š
159December31,2013
CarryingAmountEstimatedFairValue
Level1
Level2
Level3
(Inthousands)
Financialassets:
Cashandcashequivalents
..........$
1,672,934$1,672,934$1,596,877$76,057$Š
Interest-bearingdepositsatbanks...1,651,1381,651,138Š1,651,138Š

Tradingaccountassets
............376,131376,13151,386324,745Š
Investmentsecurities
..............8,796,4978,690,49482,4508,384,106223,938
Loansandleases:
Commercialloansandleases
.....18,705,21618,457,288ŠŠ18,457,288
Commercialrealestateloans
.....26,148,20826,018,195Š67,50525,950,690
Residentialrealestateloans
.......8,928,2218,867,872Š5,432,2073,435,665
Consumerloans
................10,291,51410,201,087ŠŠ10,201,087
Allowanceforcreditlosses
.......(916,676)ŠŠŠŠ
Loansandleases,net
..........63,156,48363,544,442Š5,499,71258,044,730
Accruedinterestreceivable
.........222,558222,558Š222,558Š
Financialliabilities:
Noninterest-bearingdeposits
.......$(24,661,007)$(24,661,007)Š$(24,661,007)Š
SavingsdepositsandNOW
accounts......................(38,611,021)(38,611,021)Š(38,611,021)Š
Timedeposits
....................(3,523,838)(3,542,789)Š(3,542,789)Š
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice...(322,746)(322,746)Š(322,746)Š

Short-termborrowings
............(260,455)(260,455)Š(260,455)Š
Long-termborrowings
............(5,108,870)(5,244,902)Š(5,244,902)Š
Accruedinterestpayable
...........(43,419)(43,419)Š(43,419)Š
Tradingaccountliabilities
..........(249,797)(249,797)Š(249,797)Š
Otherfinancialinstruments:
Commitmentstooriginaterealestate
loansforsale
..................$
3,941$3,941Š$Š$3,941
Commitmentstosellrealestate
loans.........................12,36012,360Š12,360Š
Othercredit-relatedcommitments...(118,886)(118,886)ŠŠ(118,886)

Interestrateswapagreementsusedfor
interestrateriskmanagement
.....102,875102,875Š102,875Š
Withtheexceptionofmarketablesecurities,certainoff-balancesheetfinancialinstrumentsandone-
to-fourfamilyresidentialmortgageloansoriginatedforsale,theCompany™sfinancialinstrumentsarenot

readilymarketableandmarketpricesdonotexist.TheCompany,inattemptingtocomplywiththe

provisionsofGAAPthatrequiredisclosuresoffairvalueoffinancialinstruments,hasnotattemptedto

marketitsfinancialinstrumentstopotentialbuyers,ifanyexist.Sincenegotiatedpricesinilliquidmarkets

dependgreatlyuponthethenpresentmotivationsofthebuyerandseller,itisreasonabletoassumethat

actualsalespricescouldvarywidelyfromanyestimateoffairvaluemadewithoutthebenefitof

negotiations.Additionally,changesinmarketinterestratescandramaticallyimpactthevalueoffinancial

instrumentsinashortperiodoftime.Thefollowingassumptions,methodsandcalculationswereusedin

determiningtheestimatedfairvalueoffinancialinstrumentsnotmeasuredatfairvalueintheconsolidated

balancesheet.
160Cashandcashequivalents,interest-bearingdepositsatbanks,depositsatCaymanIslandsoffice,short-term
borrowings,accruedinterestreceivableandaccruedinterestpayable

Duetothenatureofcashandcashequivalentsandthenearmaturityofinterest-bearingdepositsatbanks,

depositsatCaymanIslandsoffice,short-termborrowings,accruedinterestreceivableandaccruedinterest

payable,theCompanyestimatedthatthecarryingamountofsuchinstrumentsapproximatedestimatedfair

value.Investmentsecurities
Estimatedfairvaluesofinvestmentsinreadilymarketablesecuritiesweregenerallybasedonquotedmarket

prices.Investmentsecuritiesthatwerenotreadilymarketablewereassignedamountsbasedonestimates

providedbyoutsidepartiesormodelingtechniquesthatreliedupondiscountedcalculationsofprojected

cashflowsor,inthecaseofotherinvestmentsecurities,whichincludecapitalstockoftheFederalReserve

BankofNewYorkandtheFederalHomeLoanBankofNewYork,atanamountequaltothecarrying

amount.Loansandleases
Ingeneral,discountratesusedtocalculatevaluesforloanproductswerebasedontheCompany™spricingat

therespectiveperiodend.Ahigherdiscountratewasassumedwithrespecttoestimatedcashflows

associatedwithnonaccrualloans.Projectedloancashflowswereadjustedforestimatedcreditlosses.

However,suchestimatesmadebytheCompanymaynotbeindicativeofassumptionsandadjustmentsthat

apurchaseroftheCompany™sloansandleaseswouldseek.
DepositsPursuanttoGAAP,theestimatedfairvalueascribedtononinterest-bearingdeposits,savingsdepositsand

NOWaccountsmustbeestablishedatcarryingvaluebecauseofthecustomers™abilitytowithdrawfunds

immediately.Timedepositaccountsarerequiredtoberevaluedbaseduponprevailingmarketinterestrates

forsimilarmaturityinstruments.Asaresult,amountsassignedtotimedepositswerebasedondiscounted

cashflowcalculationsusingprevailingmarketinterestratesbasedontheCompany™spricingatthe

respectivedatefordepositswithcomparableremainingtermstomaturity.
TheCompanybelievesthatdepositaccountshaveavaluegreaterthanthatprescribedbyGAAP.The
Companyfeels,however,thatthevalueassociatedwiththesedepositsisgreatlyinfluencedbycharacteristics

ofthebuyer,suchastheabilitytoreducethecostsofservicingthedepositsanddepositattritionwhichoften

occursfollowinganacquisition.
Long-termborrowings
Theamountsassignedtolong-termborrowingswerebasedonquotedmarketprices,whenavailable,or

werebasedondiscountedcashflowcalculationsusingprevailingmarketinterestratesforborrowingsof

similartermsandcreditrisk.
Othercommitmentsandcontingencies
Asdescribedinnote21,inthenormalcourseofbusiness,variouscommitmentsandcontingentliabilities

areoutstanding,suchasloancommitments,creditguaranteesandlettersofcredit.TheCompany™spricing

ofsuchfinancialinstrumentsisbasedlargelyoncreditqualityandrelationship,probabilityoffundingand

otherrequirements.Loancommitmentsoftenhavefixedexpirationdatesandcontainterminationand

otherclauseswhichprovideforrelieffromfundingintheeventofsignificantdeteriorationinthecredit

qualityofthecustomer.TheratesandtermsoftheCompany™sloancommitments,creditguaranteesand

lettersofcreditarecompetitivewithotherfinancialinstitutionsoperatinginmarketsservedbythe

Company.TheCompanybelievesthatthecarryingamounts,whichareincludedinotherliabilities,are

reasonableestimatesofthefairvalueofthesefinancialinstruments.
TheCompanydoesnotbelievethattheestimatedinformationpresentedhereinisrepresentativeof
theearningspowerorvalueoftheCompany.Theprecedinganalysis,whichisinherentlylimitedin

depictingfairvalue,alsodoesnotconsideranyvalueassociatedwithexistingcustomerrelationshipsnorthe

abilityoftheCompanytocreatevaluethroughloanorigination,depositgatheringorfeegenerating

activities.Manyoftheestimatespresentedhereinarebasedupontheuseofhighlysubjectiveinformationand
assumptionsand,accordingly,theresultsmaynotbeprecise.Managementbelievesthatfairvalueestimates
161maynotbecomparablebetweenfinancialinstitutionsduetothewiderangeofpermittedvaluation
techniquesandnumerousestimateswhichmustbemade.Furthermore,becausethedisclosedfairvalue

amountswereestimatedasofthebalancesheetdate,theamountsactuallyrealizedorpaiduponmaturityor

settlementofthevariousfinancialinstrumentscouldbesignificantlydifferent.
21.Commitmentsandcontingencies
Inthenormalcourseofbusiness,variouscommitmentsandcontingentliabilitiesareoutstanding.The

followingtablepresentstheCompany™ssignificantcommitments.Certainofthesecommitmentsarenot

includedintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheet.
December31
20142013(Inthousands)
Commitmentstoextendcredit
Homeequitylinesofcredit
........................................$
6,194,516$6,218,823
Commercialrealestateloanstobesold
..............................212,25762,386
Othercommercialrealestateandconstruction
........................4,834,6993,919,545
Residentialrealestateloanstobesold
...............................432,352469,869
Otherresidentialrealestate
........................................524,399384,617
Commercialandother
...........................................11,080,85610,419,545
Standbylettersofcredit
.............................................3,706,8883,600,528
Commerciallettersofcredit
.........................................46,96553,284
Financialguaranteesandindemnificationcontracts
......................2,490,0502,457,633
Commitmentstosellrealestateloans
.................................1,237,294854,656
Commitmentstoextendcreditareagreementstolendtocustomers,generallyhavingfixed
expirationdatesorotherterminationclausesthatmayrequirepaymentofafee.Standbyandcommercial

lettersofcreditareconditionalcommitmentsissuedtoguaranteetheperformanceofacustomertoathird

party.Standbylettersofcreditgenerallyarecontingentuponthefailureofthecustomertoperform

accordingtothetermsoftheunderlyingcontractwiththethirdparty,whereascommerciallettersofcredit

areissuedtofacilitatecommerceandtypicallyresultinthecommitmentbeingfundedwhentheunderlying

transactionisconsummatedbetweenthecustomerandathirdparty.Thecreditriskassociatedwith

commitmentstoextendcreditandstandbyandcommerciallettersofcreditisessentiallythesameasthat

involvedwithextendingloanstocustomersandissubjecttonormalcreditpolicies.Collateralmaybe

obtainedbasedonmanagement™sassessmentofthecustomer™screditworthiness.
Financialguaranteesandindemnificationcontractsareoftentimessimilartostandbylettersofcredit
andincludemandatorypurchaseagreementsissuedtoensurethatcustomerobligationsarefulfilled,

recourseobligationsassociatedwithsoldloans,andotherguaranteesofcustomerperformanceor

compliancewithdesignatedrulesandregulations.Includedinfinancialguaranteesandindemnification

contractsareloanprincipalamountssoldwithrecourseinconjunctionwiththeCompany™sinvolvementin

theFannieMaeDUSprogram.TheCompany™smaximumcreditriskforrecourseassociatedwithloanssold

underthisprogramtotaledapproximately$2.4billionand$2.3billionatDecember31,2014and2013,

respectively.Sincemanyloancommitments,standbylettersofcredit,andguaranteesandindemnification
contractsexpirewithoutbeingfundedinwholeorinpart,thecontractamountsarenotnecessarily

indicativeoffuturecashflows.
TheCompanyutilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloanstohedgeexposuretochangesinthefair
valueofrealestateloansheldforsale.Suchcommitmentsareconsideredderivativesandalongwith

commitmentstooriginaterealestateloanstobeheldforsalearegenerallyrecordedintheconsolidated

balancesheetatestimatedfairmarketvalue.
162TheCompanyoccupiescertainbankingofficesandusescertainequipmentundernoncancelable
operatingleaseagreementsexpiringatvariousdatesoverthenext24years.Minimumleasepaymentsunder

noncancelableoperatingleasesaresummarizedinthefollowingtable:
(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2015.......................................................................$
87,0632016.......................................................................83,3152017.......................................................................70,1082018.......................................................................56,0242019.......................................................................45,079Lateryears
...................................................................113,390$454,979TheCompanyiscontractuallyobligatedtorepurchasepreviouslysoldresidentialrealestateloans
thatdonotultimatelymeetinvestorsalecriteriarelatedtounderwritingproceduresorloandocumentation.

Whenrequiredtodoso,theCompanymayreimburseloanpurchasersforlossesincurredormay

repurchasecertainloans.TheCompanyreducesresidentialmortgagebankingrevenuesbyanestimatefor

lossesrelatedtoitsobligationstoloanpurchasers.Theamountofthosechargesisbasedonthevolumeof

loanssold,thelevelofreimbursementrequestsreceivedfromloanpurchasersandestimatesoflossesthat

maybeassociatedwithpreviouslysoldloans.AtDecember31,2014,managementbelievesthatanyfurther

liabilityarisingoutoftheCompany™sobligationtoloanpurchasersisnotmaterialtotheCompany™s

consolidatedfinancialposition.
M&Tanditssubsidiariesaresubjectinthenormalcourseofbusinesstovariouspendingand
threatenedlegalproceedingsinwhichclaimsformonetarydamagesareasserted.Onanon-goingbasis

management,afterconsultationwithlegalcounsel,assessestheCompany™sliabilitiesandcontingenciesin

connectionwithsuchlegalproceedings.ForthosematterswhereitisprobablethattheCompanywillincur

lossesandtheamountsofthelossescanbereasonablyestimated,theCompanyrecordsanexpenseand

correspondingliabilityinitsconsolidatedfinancialstatements.Totheextentthependingorthreatened

litigationcouldresultinexposureinexcessofthatliability,theamountofsuchexcessisnotcurrently

estimable.Althoughnotconsideredprobable,therangeofreasonablypossiblelossesforsuchmattersinthe

aggregate,beyondtheexistingrecordedliability,wasbetween$0and$40million.AlthoughtheCompany

doesnotbelievethattheoutcomeofpendinglitigationswillbematerialtotheCompany™sconsolidated

financialposition,itcannotruleoutthepossibilitythatsuchoutcomeswillbematerialtotheconsolidated

resultsofoperationsforaparticularreportingperiodinthefuture.
22.Segmentinformation
ReportablesegmentshavebeendeterminedbasedupontheCompany™sinternalprofitabilityreporting

system,whichisorganizedbystrategicbusinessunit.Certainstrategicbusinessunitshavebeencombined

forsegmentinformationreportingpurposeswherethenatureoftheproductsandservices,thetypeof

customerandthedistributionofthoseproductsandservicesaresimilar.Thereportablesegmentsare

BusinessBanking,CommercialBanking,CommercialRealEstate,DiscretionaryPortfolio,Residential

MortgageBankingandRetailBanking.
ThefinancialinformationoftheCompany™ssegmentshasbeencompiledutilizingtheaccounting
policiesdescribedinnote1withcertainexceptions.Themoresignificantoftheseexceptionsaredescribed

herein.TheCompanyallocatesinterestincomeorinterestexpenseusingamethodologythatchargesusers

offunds(assets)interestexpenseandcreditsprovidersoffunds(liabilities)withincomebasedonthe

maturity,prepaymentand/orrepricingcharacteristicsoftheassetsandliabilities.Theneteffectofthis

allocationisrecordedintheﬁAllOtherﬂcategory.Aprovisionforcreditlossesisallocatedtosegmentsinan

amountbasedlargelyonactualnetcharge-offsincurredbythesegmentduringtheperiodplusorminusan

amountnecessarytoadjustthesegment™sallowanceforcreditlossesduetochangesinloanbalances.In

contrast,theleveloftheconsolidatedprovisionforcreditlossesisdeterminedusingthemethodologies

describedinnotes1and5.Indirectfixedandvariableexpensesincurredbycertaincentralizedsupportareas

areallocatedtosegmentsbasedonactualusage(forexample,volumemeasurements)andothercriteria.
163Certaintypesofadministrativeexpensesandbankwideexpenseaccruals(includingamortizationofcore
depositandotherintangibleassetsassociatedwithacquisitionsoffinancialinstitutions)aregenerallynot

allocatedtosegments.IncometaxesareallocatedtosegmentsbasedontheCompany™smarginalstatutory

taxrateadjustedforanytax-exemptincomeornon-deductibleexpenses.Equityisallocatedtothesegments

basedonregulatorycapitalrequirementsandinproportiontoanassessmentoftheinherentrisksassociated

withthebusinessofthesegment(includinginterest,creditandoperatingrisk).
Themanagementaccountingpoliciesandprocessesutilizedincompilingsegmentfinancial
informationarehighlysubjectiveand,unlikefinancialaccounting,arenotbasedonauthoritativeguidance

similartoGAAP.Asaresult,reportedsegmentresultsarenotnecessarilycomparablewithsimilar

informationreportedbyotherfinancialinstitutions.Furthermore,changesinmanagementstructureor

allocationmethodologiesandproceduresmayresultinchangesinreportedsegmentfinancialdata.

InformationabouttheCompany™ssegmentsispresentedintheaccompanyingtable.Incomestatement

amountsareinthousandsofdollars.Balancesheetamountsareinmillionsofdollars.
FortheYearsEndedDecember31,2014,2013and2012
BusinessBanking
CommercialBanking
CommercialRealEstate
DiscretionaryPortfolio
201420132012201420132012201420132012201420132012Netinterestincome(a)
...............$317,356$325,521$347,067$745,218$758,231$753,678$539,600$570,786$531,398$74,204$66,157$66,303
Noninterestincome
.................105,370102,945103,283259,832263,766253,808127,445130,895133,12027,464(2,126)(76,113)
422,726428,466450,3501,005,0501,021,9971,007,486667,045701,681664,518101,66864,031(9,810)
Provisionforcreditlosses
............18,88526,45022,24533,19776,81815,781(6,476)7,3654,23816,54716,67044,305
Amortizationofcoredepositandother
intangibleassets
..................ŠŠ
ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠ
Depreciationandotheramortization...40519812258856456716,27814,29611,0048911,3302,065

Othernoninterestexpense
............200,802214,043179,428274,697288,842262,820207,757214,246190,87933,93430,43131,006
Income(loss)beforetaxes
............202,634187,775248,555696,568655,773728,318449,486465,774458,39750,29615,600(87,186)
Incometaxexpense(benefit)
..........82,82576,735101,484285,429264,433296,894133,357143,981149,3212,198(14,368)(54,071)
Netincome(loss)
...................$119,809$111,040$147,071$411,139$391,340$431,424$316,129$321,793$309,076$48,098$29,968$(33,115)
Averagetotalassets(inmillions)
.......$
5,281$5,080$4,909$22,892$21,655$19,946$17,113$17,150$16,437$20,798$16,480$16,583
Capitalexpenditures(inmillions)
......$2$1$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š$Š
FortheYearsEndedDecember31,2014,2013and2012
ResidentialMortgage
BankingRetailBanking
AllOther
Total201420132012201420132012201420132012201420132012Netinterestincome(a)
........$
90,123$98,496$78,058$741,109$810,134$902,906$168,836$43,904$(80,894)$2,676,446$2,673,229$2,598,516
Noninterestincome
..........331,391325,474402,211335,501373,362349,571592,270670,889501,3901,779,2731,865,2051,667,270
421,514423,970480,2691,076,6101,183,4961,252,477761,106714,793420,4964,455,7194,538,4344,265,786
Provisionforcreditlosses
......(2,357)(11,711)17,16977,15872,50295,345(12,954)(3,094)4,917124,000185,000204,000
Amortizationofcoredeposit
andotherintangibleassets...ŠŠ
ŠŠŠŠ33,82446,91260,63133,82446,91260,631
Depreciationandother
amortization..............47,10848,71646,90237,78834,59932,73461,84857,12050,536164,906156,823143,930
Othernoninterestexpense
.....222,396225,794195,604759,569768,644751,916844,972690,150693,0462,544,1272,432,1502,304,699
Income(loss)beforetaxes
.....154,367161,171220,594202,095307,751372,482(166,584)(76,295)(388,634)1,588,8621,717,5491,552,526
Incometaxexpense(benefit)...59,36161,77985,67182,179125,350151,616(122,733)(78,841)(207,887)522,616579,069523,028
Netincome(loss)
............$
95,006$99,392$134,923$119,916$182,401$220,866$(43,851)$2,546$(180,747)$1,066,246$1,138,480$1,029,498
Averagetotalassets(in
millions).................$
3,333$2,858$2,451$10,449$10,997$11,705$12,277$9,442$7,952$92,143$83,662$79,983
Capitalexpenditures(in
millions).................$Š$Š$1$14$40$15$57$89$76$73$130$92
(a)Netinterestincomeisthedifferencebetweenactualtaxable-equivalentinterestearnedonassetsandinterestpaidon
liabilitiesbyasegmentandafundingcharge(credit)basedontheCompany™sinternalfundstransferpricing

methodology.Segmentsarechargedacosttofundanyassets(e.g.loans)andarepaidafundingcreditforanyfunds

provided(e.g.deposits).Thetaxable-equivalentadjustmentaggregated$23,642,000in2014,$24,971,000in2013

and$26,391,000in2012andiseliminatedinﬁAllOtherﬂnetinterestincomeandincometaxexpense(benefit).
164TheBusinessBankingsegmentprovidesdeposit,lending,cashmanagementandotherfinancial
servicestosmallbusinessesandprofessionalsthroughtheCompany™sbankingofficenetworkandseveral

otherdeliverychannels,includingbusinessbankingcenters,telephonebanking,Internetbankingand

automatedtellermachines.TheCommercialBankingsegmentprovidesawiderangeofcreditproductsand

bankingservicestomiddle-marketandlargecommercialcustomers,mainlywithinthemarketsthe

Companyserves.Amongtheservicesprovidedbythissegmentarecommerciallendingandleasing,lettersof

credit,depositproductsandcashmanagementservices.TheCommercialRealEstatesegmentprovides

creditserviceswhicharesecuredbyvarioustypesofmultifamilyresidentialandcommercialrealestateand

depositservicestoitscustomers.Activitiesofthissegmentincludetheorigination,salesandservicingof

commercialrealestateloans.TheDiscretionaryPortfoliosegmentincludessecurities,residentialmortgage

loansandotherassets;short-termandlong-termborrowedfunds;brokereddeposits;andCaymanIslands

branchdeposits.Thissegmentalsoprovidesforeignexchangeservicestocustomers.TheResidential

MortgageBankingsegmentoriginatesandservicesresidentialrealestateloansforconsumersandsells

substantiallyallofthoseloansinthesecondarymarkettoinvestorsortotheDiscretionaryPortfolio

segment.Thesegmentperiodicallypurchasesservicingrightstoloansthathavebeenoriginatedbyother

entities.ResidentialrealestateloansheldforsaleareincludedintheResidentialMortgageBankingsegment.

TheRetailBankingsegmentoffersavarietyofservicestoconsumersthroughseveraldeliverychannelsthat

includebankingoffices,automatedtellermachines,telephonebankingandInternetbanking.TheﬁAll

OtherﬂcategoryincludesotheroperatingactivitiesoftheCompanythatarenotdirectlyattributabletothe

reportedsegments;thedifferencebetweentheprovisionforcreditlossesandthecalculatedprovision

allocatedtothereportablesegments;goodwillandcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsresultingfrom

acquisitionsoffinancialinstitutions;merger-relatedgainsandexpensesresultingfromacquisitions;thenet

impactoftheCompany™sinternalfundstransferpricingmethodology;eliminationsoftransactionsbetween

reportablesegments;certainnonrecurringtransactions;theresidualeffectsofunallocatedsupportsystems

andgeneralandadministrativeexpenses;andtheimpactofinterestrateriskmanagementstrategies.The

amountofintersegmentactivityeliminatedinarrivingatconsolidatedtotalswasincludedintheﬁAllOtherﬂ

categoryasfollows:
YearEndedDecember31
201420132012(Inthousands)
Revenues...........................................$(49,800)$(50,128)$(71,452)
Expenses...........................................(12,014)(16,235)(17,313)
Incometaxes(benefit)
................................(15,375)(13,791)(22,029)
Netincome(loss)
....................................(22,411)(20,102)(32,110)
TheCompanyconductssubstantiallyallofitsoperationsintheUnitedStates.Thereareno
transactionswithasinglecustomerthatintheaggregateresultinrevenuesthatexceedtenpercentof

consolidatedtotalrevenues.
23.Regulatorymatters
PaymentofdividendsbyM&T™sbankingsubsidiariesisrestrictedbyvariouslegalandregulatory

limitations.DividendsfromanybankingsubsidiarytoM&Tarelimitedbytheamountofearningsofthe

bankingsubsidiaryinthecurrentyearandtheprecedingtwoyears.Forpurposesofthistest,at

December31,2014,approximately$1.5billionwasavailableforpaymentofdividendstoM&Tfrom

bankingsubsidiaries.Additionally,theFederalReserveBoardrequiresbankholdingcompanieswith$50

billionormoreoftotalconsolidatedassetstosubmitannualcapitalplans.Suchbankholdingcompanies

maypaydividendsandrepurchasestockonlyinaccordancewithacapitalplanwhichtheFederalReserve

Boardhasnotobjectedto.
BankingregulationsprohibitextensionsofcreditbythesubsidiarybankstoM&Tunless
appropriatelysecuredbyassets.Securitiesofaffiliatesarenoteligibleascollateralforthispurpose.
Thebanksubsidiariesarerequiredtomaintainreservesagainstcertaindepositliabilities.Duringthe
maintenanceperiodsthatincludedDecember31,2014and2013,cashandduefrombanksandinterest-

earningdepositsatbanksincludedadailyaverageof$555,575,000and$595,593,000,respectively,forsuch

purpose.165Federalregulatorshaveadoptedcapitaladequacyguidelinesforbankholdingcompaniesandbanks.
Failuretomeetminimumcapitalrequirementscanresultincertainmandatory,andpossiblyadditional

discretionary,actionsbyregulatorsthat,ifundertaken,couldhaveamaterialeffectontheCompany™s

financialstatements.UnderthecapitaladequacyguidelinesineffectthroughDecember31,2014,theso-

calledﬁTier1capitalﬂandﬁTotalcapitalﬂasapercentageofrisk-weightedassetsandcertainoff-balance

sheetfinancialinstrumentswererequiredtobeatleast4%and8%,respectively.Inadditiontotheserisk-

basedmeasures,regulatorsalsorequiredbankinginstitutionsthatmetcertainqualitativecriteriato

maintainaminimumﬁleverageﬂratioofﬁTier1capitalﬂtoaveragetotalassets,adjustedforgoodwilland

certainotheritems.AsofDecember31,2014,M&Tandeachofitsbankingsubsidiariesexceededall

applicablecapitaladequacyrequirements.Tobeconsideredﬁwellcapitalizedﬂunderthatregulatory

framework,abankinginstitutionhadtomaintainTier1risk-basedcapital,totalrisk-basedcapitaland

leverageratiosofatleast6%,10%and5%,respectively.
ThecapitalratiosandamountsoftheCompanyanditsbankingsubsidiariesasofDecember31,2014
and2013arepresentedbelow:
M&T(Consolidated)M&TBank
WilmingtonTrust,N.A.
(Dollarsinthousands)
December31,2014:
Tier1capital
Amount............................................$
9,644,765$8,043,185$435,558
Ratio(a).............................................12.47%10.46%57.22%
Minimumrequiredamount(b)
..........................3,093,8743,077,10130,447
Totalcapital
Amount............................................11,767,30810,048,277439,867
Ratio(a).............................................15.21%13.06%57.79%
Minimumrequiredamount(b)
..........................6,187,7476,154,20160,893
LeverageAmount............................................9,644,7658,043,185435,558
Ratio(c).............................................10.17%8.56%9.98%
Minimumrequiredamount(b)
..........................3,793,8363,760,364174,613
December31,2013:

Tier1capital
Amount............................................$
8,792,035$7,341,506$420,330
Ratio(a).............................................12.00%10.08%73.79%
Minimumrequiredamount(b)
..........................2,930,9252,914,24622,786
Totalcapital
Amount............................................11,045,5899,445,770424,975
Ratio(a).............................................15.07%12.96%74.60%
Minimumrequiredamount(b)
..........................5,861,8495,828,49145,573
LeverageAmount............................................8,792,0357,341,506420,330
Ratio(c).............................................10.78%9.09%19.80%
Minimumrequiredamount(b)
..........................2,446,4762,422,09663,678
(a)Theratioofcapitaltorisk-weightedassets,asdefinedbyregulation.
(b)Minimumamountofcapitaltobeconsideredadequatelycapitalized,asdefinedbyregulation.

(c)Theratioofcapitaltoaverageassets,asdefinedbyregulation.
Beginningin2015,newregulatorycapitalrulesbecameeffective.Thenewrulessubstantiallyrevise
therisk-basedcapitalrequirementsapplicabletobankholdingcompaniesandbanks.M&Tandits

subsidiarybanksexpecttobeabletocomplywiththerevisedcapitaladequacyrequirements.
16624.RelationshipwithBayviewLendingGroupLLCandBayviewFinancialHoldings,L.P.
M&Tholdsa20%minorityinterestinBayviewLendingGroupLLC(ﬁBLGﬂ),aprivately-heldcommercial
mortgagecompany.M&TrecognizesincomeorlossfromBLGusingtheequitymethodofaccounting.The

carryingvalueofthatinvestmentwas$47millionatDecember31,2014.
BayviewFinancialHoldings,L.P.(togetherwithitsaffiliates,ﬁBayviewFinancialﬂ),aprivately-held
specialtymortgagefinancecompany,isBLG™smajorityinvestor.Inadditiontotheircommoninvestmentin

BLG,theCompanyandBayviewFinancialconductotherbusinessactivitieswitheachother.TheCompany

hasobtainedloanservicingrightsformortgageloansfromBLGandBayviewFinancialhavingoutstanding

principalbalancesof$4.8billionand$5.5billionatDecember31,2014and2013,respectively.Revenues

fromthoseservicingrightswere$26million,$31millionand$35millionduring2014,2013and2012,

respectively.TheCompanysub-servicesresidentialrealestateloansforBayviewFinancialhaving

outstandingprincipalbalancestotaling$41.3billionand$45.6billionatDecember31,2014and2013,

respectively.Revenuesearnedforsub-servicingloansforBayviewFinancialwere$115millionin2014,$33

millionin2013and$10millionin2012.Inaddition,theCompanyheld$202millionand$220millionof

mortgage-backedsecuritiesinitsheld-to-maturityportfolioatDecember31,2014and2013,respectively,

thatweresecuritizedbyBayviewFinancial.
25.Parentcompanyfinancialstatements
CondensedBalanceSheet
December31
20142013(Inthousands)
AssetsCashinsubsidiarybank
.............................................$
11,306$10,729
Duefromconsolidatedbanksubsidiaries
Money-marketsavings
...........................................1,096,533968,274
Currentincometaxreceivable
.....................................Š
1,914Other.........................................................12
1,894Totalduefromconsolidatedbanksubsidiaries
......................1,096,545972,082
Investmentsinconsolidatedsubsidiaries
Banksandbankholdingcompany
..................................11,945,51611,364,657
Other.........................................................16,21716,212
Investmentsinunconsolidatedsubsidiaries(note19)
.....................33,57833,751
InvestmentinBayviewLendingGroupLLC
............................46,71673,883
Otherassets
......................................................81,03480,098
Totalassets
...................................................$13,230,912$12,551,412
LiabilitiesAccruedexpensesandotherliabilities
.................................$
59,950$62,817
Long-termborrowings
.............................................835,0661,183,063
Totalliabilities
................................................895,0161,245,880
Shareholders™equity
...............................................12,335,89611,305,532
Totalliabilitiesandshareholders™equity
...........................$13,230,912$12,551,412
167CondensedStatementofIncome
YearEndedDecember31
201420132012(Inthousands,exceptpershare)
IncomeDividendsfromconsolidatedbanksubsidiaries
................$
480,000$700,000$700,000
EquityinearningsofBayviewLendingGroupLLC
.............(16,672)(16,126)(21,511)
Otherincome
...........................................7,7559,9928,755
Totalincome
.........................................471,083693,866687,244
ExpenseInterestonlong-termborrowings
...........................47,70073,11582,286
Otherexpense
...........................................15,10715,99419,226
Totalexpense
.........................................62,80789,109101,512
Incomebeforeincometaxesandequityinundistributedincome
ofsubsidiaries
.........................................408,276604,757585,732
Incometaxcredits
.......................................27,28435,98643,149
Incomebeforeequityinundistributedincomeofsubsidiaries
.......435,560640,743628,881
Equityinundistributedincomeofsubsidiaries
Netincomeofsubsidiaries
................................1,110,6861,197,7371,100,617
Less:dividendsreceived
...................................(480,000)(700,000)(700,000)
Equityinundistributedincomeofsubsidiaries
................630,686497,737400,617
Netincome
.............................................$1,066,246$1,138,480$1,029,498
Netincomepercommonshare
Basic................................................$
7.47$8.26$7.57
Diluted..............................................7.428.207.54
168CondensedStatementofCashFlows
YearEndedDecember31
201420132012(Inthousands)
Cashflowsfromoperatingactivities
Netincome
.............................................$1,066,246$1,138,480$1,029,498
Adjustmentstoreconcilenetincometonetcashprovidedby
operatingactivities
Equityinundistributedincomeofsubsidiaries
..............(630,686)(497,737)(400,617)
Provisionfordeferredincometaxes
.......................(6,522)1,5351,724
Netchangeinaccruedincomeandexpense
.................23,41931,9796,798
Netcashprovidedbyoperatingactivities
...................452,457674,257637,403
Cashflowsfrominvestingactivities
Proceedsfromsalesofinvestmentsecurities
..................ŠŠ411
Investmentinsubsidiary
..................................Š
(140,000)Š
Other,net
..............................................10,7213,295324
Netcashprovided(used)byinvestingactivities
.............10,721(136,705)735
Cashflowsfromfinancingactivities
Paymentsonlong-termborrowings
.........................(350,010)Š(300,000)
DividendspaidŠcommon
...............................(371,199)(365,349)(357,717)
DividendspaidŠpreferred
...............................(70,234)(53,450)(53,450)
Proceedsfromissuanceofpreferredstock
....................346,500ŠŠ
Other,net
..............................................110,601140,799143,352
Netcashusedbyfinancingactivities
.......................(334,342)(278,000)(567,815)
Netincreaseincashandcashequivalents
.....................128,836259,55270,323
Cashandcashequivalentsatbeginningofyear
................979,003719,451649,128
Cashandcashequivalentsatendofyear
.....................$1,107,839$979,003$719,451
Supplementaldisclosureofcashflowinformation
Interestreceivedduringtheyear
............................$
2,094$2,224$1,970
Interestpaidduringtheyear
...............................47,00371,09080,090
Incometaxesreceivedduringtheyear
.......................24,58845,23721,878
169Item9.
ChangesinandDisagreementswithAccountantsonAccountingandFinancialDisclosure.
None.
Item9A.
ControlsandProcedures.
(a)Evaluationofdisclosurecontrolsandprocedures.Basedupontheirevaluationoftheeffectiveness
ofM&T™sdisclosurecontrolsandprocedures(asdefinedinExchangeActrules13a-15(e)and15d-15(e)),

RobertG.Wilmers,ChairmanoftheBoardandChiefExecutiveOfficer,andRenéF.Jones,ExecutiveVice

PresidentandChiefFinancialOfficer,concludedthatM&T™sdisclosurecontrolsandprocedureswere

effectiveasofDecember31,2014.
(b)Management™sannualreportoninternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.Includedunderthe
headingﬁReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReportingﬂatItem8ofthisAnnualReporton

Form10-K.
(c)Attestationreportoftheregisteredpublicaccountingfirm.IncludedundertheheadingﬁReport
ofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirmﬂatItem8ofthisAnnualReportonForm10-K.
(d)Changesininternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.M&Tregularlyassessestheadequacyofits
internalcontroloverfinancialreportingandenhancesitscontrolsinresponsetointernalcontrol

assessmentsandinternalandexternalauditandregulatoryrecommendations.Nochangesininternal

controloverfinancialreportinghavebeenidentifiedinconnectionwiththeevaluationofdisclosure

controlsandproceduresduringthequarterendedDecember31,2014thathavemateriallyaffected,orare

reasonablylikelytomateriallyaffect,M&T™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.
Item9B.
OtherInformation.
None.PARTIII
Item10.
Directors,ExecutiveOfficersandCorporateGovernance.
TheidentificationoftheRegistrant™sdirectorsisincorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁNOMINEES
FORDIRECTORﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2015AnnualMeetingof

Shareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch5,2015.
TheidentificationoftheRegistrant™sexecutiveofficersispresentedunderthecaptionﬁExecutive
OfficersoftheRegistrantﬂcontainedinPartIofthisAnnualReportonForm10-K.
DisclosureofcompliancewithSection16(a)oftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,asamended,by
theRegistrant™sdirectorsandexecutiveofficers,andpersonswhoarethebeneficialownersofmorethan

10%oftheRegistrant™scommonstock,isincorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁSection16(a)Beneficial

OwnershipReportingComplianceﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2015

AnnualMeetingofShareholderswhichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononor

aboutMarch5,2015.
TheotherinformationrequiredbyItem10isincorporatedbyreferencetothecaptions
ﬁCORPORATEGOVERNANCEOFM&TBANKCORPORATIONﬂandﬁSTOCKOWNERSHIP

INFORMATIONﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2015AnnualMeetingof

Shareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch5,2015.
Item11.
ExecutiveCompensation.
IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionsﬁDIRECTORCOMPENSATION,ﬂﬁNOMINATION,
COMPENSATIONANDGOVERNANCECOMMITTEEINTERLOCKSANDINSIDER

PARTICIPATION,ﬂﬁNOMINATION,COMPENSATIONANDGOVERNANCECOMMITTEEREPORTﬂ

ANDﬁEXECUTIVECOMPENSATIONﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits

2015AnnualMeetingofShareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissionon

oraboutMarch5,2015.
170Item12.
SecurityOwnershipofCertainBeneficialOwnersandManagementandRelatedStockholder
Matters.IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁSTOCKOWNERSHIPINFORMATIONﬂcontainedinthe
Registrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2015AnnualMeetingofShareholders,whichwillbefiledwith

theSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch5,2015.
TheinformationrequiredbythisitemconcerningEquityCompensationPlaninformationisfiledas
partofthisAnnualReportonForm10-K.SeePartII,Item5.ﬁMarketforRegistrant™sCommonEquity,

RelatedStockholderMattersandIssuerPurchasesofEquitySecurities.ﬂ
Item13.
CertainRelationshipsandRelatedTransactions,andDirectorIndependence.
IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionsﬁTRANSACTIONSWITHDIRECTORSANDEXECUTIVE
OFFICERSﬂandﬁCORPORATEGOVERNANCEOFM&TBANKCORPORATIONﬂcontainedinthe

Registrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2015AnnualMeetingofShareholders,whichwillbefiledwith

theSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch5,2015.
Item14.
PrincipalAccountantFeesandServices.
IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁPROPOSALTORATIFYTHEAPPOINTMENTOF
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERSLLPASTHEINDEPENDENTREGISTEREDPUBLICACCOUNTING

FIRMOFM&TBANKCORPORATIONﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits

2015AnnualMeetingofShareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissionon

oraboutMarch5,2015.
PARTIV
Item15.
ExhibitsandFinancialStatementSchedules.
(a)FinancialstatementsandfinancialstatementschedulesfiledaspartofthisAnnualReporton
Form10-K.SeePartII,Item8.ﬁFinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData.ﬂFinancialstatement

schedulesarenotrequiredorareinapplicable,andthereforehavebeenomitted.
(b)ExhibitsrequiredbyItem601ofRegulationS-K.TheexhibitslistedontheExhibitIndexofthis
AnnualReportonForm10-Khavebeenpreviouslyfiled,arefiledherewithorareincorporatedhereinby

referencetootherfilings.
(c)Additionalfinancialstatementschedules.None.
171SignaturesPursuanttotherequirementsofSection13or15(d)oftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,theRegistrant
hasdulycausedthisreporttobesignedonitsbehalfbytheundersigned,thereuntodulyauthorized,onthe

20thdayofFebruary,2015.
M&TBANKCORPORATION
By:/
S/ROBERTG.W
ILMERSRobertG.Wilmers
ChairmanoftheBoardand
ChiefExecutiveOfficer
PursuanttotherequirementsoftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,thisreporthasbeensigned
belowbythefollowingpersonsonbehalfoftheRegistrantandinthecapacitiesandonthedatesindicated.
SignatureTitleDatePrincipalExecutiveOfficer:
/S/ROBERTG.W
ILMERSRobertG.Wilmers
ChairmanoftheBoard
andChiefExecutiveOfficer
February20,2015
PrincipalFinancialOfficer:
/S/RENÉF.J
ONESRenéF.Jones
ExecutiveVicePresident
andChiefFinancialOfficer
February20,2015
PrincipalAccountingOfficer:
/S/MICHAELR.S
PYCHALAMichaelR.Spychala
SeniorVicePresidentand
ControllerFebruary20,2015
Amajorityoftheboardofdirectors:
/S/BRENT
D.B
AIRDBrentD.Baird
February20,2015
/S/C.A
NGELABONTEMPOC.AngelaBontempo
February20,2015
RobertT.Brady
/S/T.J
EFFERSONCUNNINGHAMIIIT.JeffersonCunninghamIII
February20,2015
/S/MARKJ.C
ZARNECKI
MarkJ.Czarnecki
February20,2015
/S/GARYN.G
EISELGaryN.Geisel
February20,2015
/S/JOHND.H
AWKE,JR.JohnD.Hawke,Jr.
February20,2015
/S/PATRICKW.E.H
ODGSONPatrickW.E.Hodgson
February20,2015
172/S/RICHARDG.K
INGRichardG.King
February20,2015
JorgeG.Pereira
/S/MELINDAR.R
ICHMelindaR.Rich
February20,2015
/S/ROBERTE.S
ADLER,JR.RobertE.Sadler,Jr.
February20,2015
/S/HERBERTL.W
ASHINGTONHerbertL.Washington
February20,2015
/S/ROBERTG.W
ILMERSRobertG.Wilmers
February20,2015
173EXHIBITINDEX
2.1AgreementandPlanofMerger,datedasofAugust27,2012,byandamongM&TBank
Corporation,HudsonCityBancorp,Inc.andWilmingtonTrustCorporation.Incorporatedby

referencetoExhibit2.1totheForm8-KdatedAugust31,2012(FileNo.1-9861).
2.2AmendmentNo.1,datedasofApril13,2013,totheAgreementandPlanofMerger,datedas

ofAugust27,2012,byandamongM&TBankCorporation,HudsonCityBancorp,Inc.and

WilmingtonTrustCorporation.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit2.1totheForm8-K

datedApril13,2013(FileNo.1-9861).
2.3AmendmentNo.2,datedasofDecember16,2013,totheAgreementandPlanofMerger,

datedasofAugust27,2012,byandamongM&TBankCorporation,HudsonCityBancorp,

Inc.andWilmingtonTrustCorporation.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit2.1totheForm

8-KdatedDecember17,2013(FileNo.1-9861).
2.4AmendmentNo.3,datedasofDecember8,2014,totheAgreementandPlanofMerger,dated

asofAugust27,2012,byandamongM&TBankCorporation,HudsonCityBancorp,Inc.and

WilmingtonTrustCorporation.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit2.1totheForm8-K

datedDecember8,2014(FileNo.1-9861).
3.1RestatedCertificateofIncorporationofM&TBankCorporationdatedNovember18,2010.

IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit3.1totheForm8-KdatedNovember19,2010(File

No.1-9861).
3.2AmendedandRestatedBylawsofM&TBankCorporation,effectiveNovember16,2010.

IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit3.2totheForm8-KdatedNovember19,2010(File

No.1-9861).
3.3CertificateofAmendmenttoCertificateofIncorporationwithrespecttoPerpetual6.875%

Non-CumulativePreferredStock,SeriesD,datedMay26,2011.Incorporatedbyreferenceto

Exhibit3.1ofM&TBankCorporation™sForm8-KdatedMay26,2011(FileNo.1-9861).
3.4CertificateofAmendmenttoRestatedCertificateofIncorporationofM&TBankCorporation,

datedApril19,2013.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit3.1totheForm8-KdatedApril22,

2013(FileNo.1-9861).
3.5CertificateofAmendmenttoRestatedCertificateofIncorporationofM&TBankCorporation,

datedFebruary11,2014.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit3.1totheForm8-Kdated

February11,2014(FileNo.1-9861).
4.1Therearenoinstrumentswithrespecttolong-termdebtofM&TBankCorporationandits

subsidiariesthatinvolvesecuritiesauthorizedundertheinstrumentinanamountexceeding

10percentofthetotalassetsofM&TBankCorporationanditssubsidiariesonaconsolidated

basis.M&TBankCorporationagreestoprovidetheSECwithacopyofinstrumentsdefining

therightsofholdersoflong-termdebtofM&TBankCorporationanditssubsidiarieson

request.4.2WarranttopurchasesharesofM&TBankCorporationCommonStockdatedasofMarch26,

2010.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit4.2totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember

31,2012(FileNo.1-9861).
4.3WarranttopurchasesharesofM&TBankCorporationCommonStockeffectiveMay16,2011.

IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit4.1totheForm8-KdatedMay19,2011(FileNo.1-

9861).4.4WarrantAgreement(includingFormofWarrant),datedasofDecember11,2012,between

M&TBankCorporationandRegistrarandTransferCompany.Incorporatedbyreferenceto

Exhibit4.1totheForm8-A12BdatedDecember12,2012(FileNo.1-9861).
10.1M&TBankCorporation2001StockOptionPlan.IncorporatedbyreferencetoAppendixAto

thedefinitiveProxyStatementofM&TBankCorporationdatedMarch6,2001(FileNo.1-

9861).*10.2M&TBankCorporationAnnualExecutiveIncentivePlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto

ExhibitNo.10.3totheForm10-QforthequarterendedJune30,1998(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.3SupplementalDeferredCompensationAgreementbetweenManufacturersandTraders

TrustCompanyandBrianE.HickeydatedasofJuly21,1994.Incorporatedbyreferenceto

Exhibit10.8totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,1995(FileNo.1-9861).*
17410.4Firstamendment,datedasofAugust1,2006,totheSupplementalDeferredCompensation
AgreementbetweenManufacturersandTradersTrustCompanyandBrianE.Hickeydatedasof

July21,1994.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.2totheForm10-Qforthequarterended

September30,2006(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.5ConsultingAgreement,datedasofJune16,2014,betweenM&TBankCorporationandRobert

E.Sadler,Jr.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.1totheForm10-Qforthequarterended

June30,2014(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.6M&TBankCorporationSupplementalPensionPlan,asamendedandrestated.Incorporatedby

referencetoExhibit10.1totheForm8-KdatedNovember22,2005(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.7M&TBankCorporationSupplementalRetirementSavingsPlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto

Exhibit10.2totheForm8-KdatedNovember22,2005(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.8M&TBankCorporationDeferredBonusPlan,asamendedandrestated.Incorporatedby

referencetoExhibit10.12totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2004(FileNo.1-

9861).*10.9M&TBankCorporation2008Directors™StockPlan.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit4.1to

theFormS-8datedApril7,2008(FileNo.333-150122).*
10.10M&TBankCorporation2008Directors™StockPlan,asamended.Incorporatedbyreferenceto

Exhibit4.1totheFormS-8datedOctober19,2012(FileNo.333-184504).*
10.11KeystoneFinancial,Inc.1992DirectorFeePlan.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.11tothe

Form10-KofKeystoneFinancial,Inc.fortheyearendedDecember31,1999(FileNo.000-

11460).*10.12M&TBankCorporationEmployeeStockPurchasePlan.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit

10.22totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2012(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.13M&TBankCorporation2005IncentiveCompensationPlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto

AppendixAtothedefinitiveProxyStatementofM&TBankCorporationdatedMarch4,2005

(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.14M&TBankCorporation2009EquityIncentiveCompensationPlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto

AppendixAtotheProxyStatementofM&TBan
kCorporationdatedMarch6,2009(FileNo.1-
9861).*10.15M&TBankCorporationFormofRestrictedStockAwardAgreement.Incorporatedbyreference

toExhibit10.25totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2013(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.16M&TBankCorporationFormofRestrictedStockUnitAwardAgreement.Incorporatedby

referencetoExhibit10.26totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2013(FileNo.1-

9861).*10.17M&TBankCorporationFormofPerformance-VestedRestrictedStockUnitAwardAgreement.

IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.27totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,

2013(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.18M&TBankCorporationFormofPerformance-VestedRestrictedStockUnitAwardAgreement

(fornamedexecutiveofficers(ﬁNEOsﬂ)subjecttoSection162(m)oftheInternalRevenueCode

of1986,asamendedfromtimetotime).IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.1totheForm

10-QforthequarterendedMarch31,2014(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.19M&TBankCorporationEmployeeSeverancePlan.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.2to

theForm10-QforthequarterendedMarch31,2005(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.20ProvidentBanksharesCorporationAmendedandRestatedStockOptionPlan.Incorporatedby

referencetoExhibit4.1toM&TBankCorporation™sRegistrationStatementonFormS-8dated

June5,2009(FileNo.333-159795).*
10.21ProvidentBanksharesCorporation2004EquityCompensationPlan.Incorporatedbyreference

toExhibit4.2toM&TBankCorporation™sRegistrationStatementonFormS-8datedJune5,

2009(FileNo.333-159795).*
10.22WilmingtonTrustCorporationAmendedandRestated2002Long-TermIncentivePlan.

IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.64totheForm10-QofWilmingtonTrust

CorporationfiledonNovember9,2004(FileNo.1-14659).*
10.23WilmingtonTrustCorporationAmendedandRestated2005Long-TermIncentivePlan.

IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.21totheForm10-KofWilmingtonTrustCorporation

filedonFebruary29,2008(FileNo.1-14659).*
17510.24WilmingtonTrustCorporation2009Long-TermIncentivePlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
ExhibitDtothedefinitiveProxyStatementofWilmingtonTrustCorporationfiledon

March16,2009(FileNo.1-14659).*
11.1Statementre:ComputationofEarningsPerCommonShare.Incorporatedbyreferenceto

note14ofNotestoFinancialStatementsfiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancialStatements

andSupplementaryData.ﬂ
12.1RatioofEarningstoFixedCharges.Filedherewith.
14.1M&TBankCorporationCodeofEthicsforCEOandSeniorFinancialOfficers.Incorporated

byreferencetoExhibit14.1totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2003(File

No.1-9861).
21.1SubsidiariesoftheRegistrant.IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁSubsidiariesﬂ

containedinPartI,Item1hereof.
23.1ConsentofPricewaterhouseCoopersLLPre:RegistrationStatementNos.333-63660,333-

43175,33-32044,333-16077,333-84384,333-127406,333-150122,333-164015,333-163992,

333-160769,333-159795,333-170740,333-182348,333-189099,333-40640,333-184504and

333-189097.Filedherewith.
31.1CertificationofChiefExecutiveOfficerunderSection302oftheSarbanes-OxleyActof2002.

Filedherewith.
31.2CertificationofChiefFinancialOfficerunderSection302oftheSarbanes-OxleyActof2002.

Filedherewith.
32.1CertificationofChiefExecutiveOfficerunder18U.S.C.§1350pursuanttoSection906ofthe

Sarbanes-OxleyActof2002.Filedherewith.
32.2CertificationofChiefFinancialOfficerunder18U.S.C.§1350pursuanttoSection906ofthe

Sarbanes-OxleyActof2002.Filedherewith.
101.INSXBRLInstanceDocument.Filedherewith.
101.SCHXBRLTaxonomyExtensionSchema.Filedherewith.
101.CALXBRLTaxonomyExtensionCalculationLinkbase.Filedherewith.
101.LABXBRLTaxonomyExtensionLabelLinkbase.Filedherewith.
101.PREXBRLTaxonomyExtensionPresentationLinkbase.Filedherewith.
101.DEFXBRLTaxonomyDefinitionLinkbase.Filedherewith.
*Managementcontractorcompensatoryplanorarrangement.
176 DIRECT STOCK PURCHASE
 A plan is available to common shareholders and the general public whereby 
   AND DIVIDEND shares of M&T Bank Corporation™s common stock may be purchased directly 
 REINVESTMENT PLAN   
through
 the transfer agent noted below and common shareholders may also 
  invest their dividends and voluntary cash payments in additional shares of 
  M&T Bank Corporation™s common stock.
 INQUIRIES  Requests for information about the Direct Stock Purchase and Dividend 
Reinvestment Plan and questions about stock certi˚cates, dividend checks or 

other account information should be addressed to M&T Bank Corporation™s 

transfer agent, registrar and dividend disbursing agent:
  (First Class, Registered and Certi˜ed Mail)
  Computershare 
   P.O. Box 30170
  College Station, TX 77842-3170
  866-293-3379  E-mail address: web.queries@computershare.com
  Internet address: www.computershare.com/investor
   
Requests for additional copies of this publication or annual or quarterly reports 

˚led with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC Forms 

10-K and 10-Q), which are available at no charge, may be directed to:
  M&T Bank Corporation
  Shareholder Relations Department
  One M&T Plaza, 8th Floor
  Bu˛alo, NY
 14203-2399  716-842-5138  E-mail address: ir@mtb.com
  All other general inquiries may be directed to: 716-635-4000
 INTERNET ADDRESS www.mtb.com
 QUOTATION
 AND TRADING  M&T Bank Corporation™s common stock is traded under the
 OF COMMON STOCK
  symbol MTB on the New York Stock Exchange (ﬁNYSEﬂ).
  (Overnight and Courier Mail)
 
Computershare 
 211 Quality Circle, Suite 210

College Station, TX 77845
www.mtb.com 
10%
COVER & SEC 10
-K:˜˚˛˝˙˚ˆˇ˝˘
NARRATIVE:
COVER: 
