
100
%SEC 10
-K









Open.
We opened a new signature branch in the Spring of 2010, a building which expresses a vision of our future 
informed by 155 years of service and experience. Using a visual language that is at once contemporary and 

familiar, elements of the design evoke enduring ˜nancial institutions throughout history. ˚e strong verticals 

of the colonnade, for example, have analogs not only in the columns of classical architecture, but also in the 

lines of our own iconic headquarters in downtown Bu˛alo. By balancing solidity and shelter with 
light and air, the building gives form to two of M&T Bank™s ideals Œ reliability and openness. And the 

thoughtful use of green technology and building practices is one of the many ways we™re preparing 

for a long and prosperous future. 
We opened a new signature branch in the Spring of 2010, a building which expresses a vision of our future 
informed by 155 years of service and experience. Using a visual language that is at once contemporary and 

familiar, elements of the design evoke enduring ˜nancial institutions throughout history. ˚e strong verticals 

of the colonnade, for example, have analogs not only in the columns of classical architecture, but also in the 

lines of our own iconic headquarters in downtown Bu˛alo. By balancing solidity and shelter with 
light and air, the building gives form to two of M&T Bank™s ideals Œ reliability and openness. And the 

thoughtful use of green technology and building practices is one of the many ways we™re preparing 

for a long and prosperous future. 
i 
 Financial Highlights
 .........................................ii  Message to Shareholders
 ......................................iv  O˜cers and Directors
 .......................................xxi  United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Form 10
-K .........xxiv
 
  
˚e annual meeting of shareholders will take place at 11
:00 a.m. on April 19, 2011 at One 
M&T Plaza in Bu˛alo.
   
M&T Bank Corporation is a bank holding company headquartered in Bu˛alo, 
 New York, which had assets of $68.0 billion at December 31, 2010. 
M&T
 Bank 
 Corporation™s subsidiaries include 
M&T
 Bank and 
M&T
 Bank, National Association.
   M&T Bank has domestic o˜ces in New York State, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware, New 
Jersey, Virginia, West Virginia and the District of Columbia, and has o˜ces in Ontario, 
Canada and the Cayman Islands. Major subsidiaries include:



   M&T Insurance Agency, Inc.
   M&T Real Estate Trust
   M&T Realty Capital Corporation
 M&T Securities, Inc.
 MTB Investment Advisors, Inc.
ii



(a)  
Excludes impact of merger-related gains and expenses and net securities transactions.
(b)  
Excludes amortization and balances related to goodwill and core deposit and other intangible assets and merger-related gains and 
expenses which, except in the calculation of the e˜ciency ratio, are net of applicable income tax e˚ects. A reconciliation of net income 

and net operating income appears in Item 7, Table 2 in Form 10-K.
(c) Excludes impact of loan balances obtained in 2009 and 2
010 acquisition transactions.
 2010
 2009 Change
For the year
Performance
 Net income (thousands)
 ........... $736,161
 $379,891 + 94% Net income available to common  
    shareholders Œ diluted (thousands)
 ... $675,853
 $332,006 + 104%
 Return on
    Average assets 
 ................  1.08% .56%    Average common equity
 .........  9.30% 5.07% Net interest margin
 ..............  3.84% 3.49% Net charge-o˛s/average loans
 .......  .67% 1.01% E˜ciency ratio
(a) ...............  55.39% 58.49%Per common share data
 Basic earnings
 .................   $      5.72
 $     2.90
 + 97% Diluted earnings
 ...............  5.69 2.89 + 97% Cash dividends
 ................ 2.80 2.80      
 Š Net operating (tangible) results
(b) Net operating income (thousands)
 ....  $755,165
 $455,376
 + 66% Diluted net operating earnings  
    per common share
 .............  5.84 3.54 + 65% Net operating return on
    Average tangible assets
 ..........  1.17% .71%    Average tangible common equity
 ....  18.95% 13.42% E˜ciency ratio
(a) ...............  53.71% 56.50%At December 31

Balance sheet data (millions)
 Loans and leases, 
    net of unearned discount
 .........  $  51,990
 $  51,937
      
 Š  Total assets
 ...................  68,021 68,880 - 1% Deposits
 .....................  49,805 47,450 + 5% Total shareholders™ equity
 ..........  8,358 7,753 + 8%  Common shareholders™ equity
 ....... 7,611 7,017 + 8%Loan quality
 Allowance for credit losses to 
    M&T legacy loans 
(c) ............  1.82% 1.83%     Total loans
 .................. 1.74% 1.69% Nonaccrual loans ratio
 ............  2.38% 2.56%Capital
 Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
 .......  9.47% 8.59%  Total risk-based capital ratio
 ........ 13.08%  12.30%  Leverage ratio
 .................  9.33% 8.43% Total equity/total assets
 ............  12.29% 11.26% Common equity (book value) per share
 ..
 $    63.54
 $    59.31
 + 7% Tangible common equity per share
 .... 33.26 28.27 + 18% Market price per share
    Closing
 ....................  87.05 66.89 + 30%    High
 ......................  96.15 69.89    Low
 ......................  66.32 29.11  iiiDILUTED EARNINGSPER COMMON SHARE 2006 2007 2008 2009 20
10Diluted net operating(a)Diluted$7.73 $6.40 $5.39 $3.54 $5.84
$7.37 $5.95 $5.01 $2.89 $5.69
RETURN ON AVERA
GE COMMONSHAREHOLDERS™ EQUITY
 2006 2007 2008 2009 2
010Net operating return on average tangible  common shareholders™ equity(a)Return on average common shareholders™ equity29.55% 22.58% 19.63% 13.42% 18.95%
13.89% 10.47%  8.64%   5.07%   9.30%
NET INCOMEIn millions 2006 2007 2008 2009 2
010Net operating income(a)Net income$880.7 $703.8 $598.6 $455.4 $755.2
$839.2 $654.3 $555.9 $379.9 $736.2
SHAREHOLDERS™ EQUITY
PER COMMON SHARE AT YEAR-END
 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010
Shareholders™ equity per common share  
at year-end Tangible shareholders™ equity per common share at year-end$56.94 $58.99 $56.29 $59.31 
$63.54$28.57 $27.98 $25.94 $28.27 
$33.26(a)
 Excludes merger-related gains and expenses and amortization of intangible assets, net of applicable income tax e˚ects.  
A reconciliation of net operating (tangible) results with net income is included in Item 7, Table 2 in Form 10-K.
iv




vI am pleased, though not entirely satis˝ed, to report the results which follow and 
which re˙ect an improved, solidly pro˝table 2010 at M&T. Despite facing signi˝cant 
economic headwinds, we reported positive net income for the thirty-fourth consecutive 

year, continued to pay our regular quarterly dividends to shareholders, and signi˝cantly 

increased our regulatory and tangible common capital ratios. Net income and earnings 

per common share were higher than in the prior year for the ˝rst time since 2006. ˚at 

in a year when 157 commercial banks and thriˆs failed and many other institutions 

reported yet another round of losses.
 M&T™s diluted earnings per common share last year were $5.69 and net income  
was $736 million. In 2009, diluted earnings per common share were $2.89 and net 
income was $380 million. ˚e improved performance was the direct result of a $214 

million increase in taxable-equivalent net interest income and a $236 million decrease 

in the amount we needed to provide for loan losses. Additionally, M&T™s results for 2010 

included a net merger-related 
gain
 of $16 million (aˆer applicable tax e˛ect), or $.14 
per common share. ˚at net gain arose from our agreement with the Federal Deposit 

Insurance Corporation (ﬁFDICﬂ) to acquire certain assets and assume the deposits of  

K Bank, based in Randallstown, Maryland, on November 5, 2010. In contrast, results for 

2009 re˙ected $36 million of net merger-related 
expenses
 (aˆer applicable tax e˛ect), or 
$.31 of diluted earnings per common share. ˚e net expenses in 2009 were associated 

with the acquisition of Provident Bankshares Corporation (ﬁProvidentﬂ) in May of that 

year and our agreement with the FDIC to assume all of the deposits and acquire certain 

assets of Bradford Bank (ﬁBradfordﬂ) three months later.
 As in prior years, we also provide supplemental reporting on a ﬁnet operatingﬂ or 
ﬁtangibleﬂ basis in order to help investors understand the e˛ect of acquisition activity 
on M&T™s ˝nancial results. Net operating results di˛er from those reported above 

using generally accepted accounting principles (ﬁGAAPﬂ) in that the aˆer-tax impact 
viof merger-related gains and expenses, as well as the e˛ect of core deposit and other 
intangible assets
 Š both in the income statement and on the balance sheet
 Š are excluded. 
Net operating income last year was $755 million, up from $455 million in 2009. Net 

operating earnings per common share were $5.84 in 2010, increased by 65% from $3.54 

in the prior year. 
 Re˙ecting slow growth in the economy and tempered loan demand by creditworthy 
customers, average loans increased only modestly to $51.3 billion in 2010 from $51.0 
billion in 2009. Similarly, average earning assets last year were $59.7 billion, little 

changed from 2009™s $59.6 billion. Average deposits, however, continued to grow, rising 

seven percent to $48.0 billion from $44.9 billion in 2009. ˚at growth allowed for a paring 

of more expensive wholesale borrowings and led to taxable-equivalent net interest income 

of $2.29 billion in 2010 that was up 10% from $2.08 billion in 2009. ˚e resultant net 

interest margin, or the ratio of taxable-equivalent net interest income to average earning 

assets, was 3.84% in 2010, an improvement of 35 basis points (hundredths of one percent) 

from 3.49% in 2009.
 Despite continuing weakness in the overall economy, we experienced a signi˝cant 
improvement in our provision for credit losses and net charge-o˛s of loans. ˚e provision 
for credit losses
 Š which represents a reduction of our earnings for loan amounts that 
 we anticipate will not be repaid
 Š was $368 million last year. ˚at amount was 39% lower 
than the $604 million provision recorded in 2009. Net charge-o˛s
 Š that is, the amount 
 of loans that we actually failed to collect
 Š also dropped signi˝cantly. ˚ey tallied 
 to $346 million, or .67% of average loans and leases, an improvement of $168 million, 
 or 33%, from 2009 when net charge-o˛s were $514 million, or 1.01% of then average 
 loan balances.
 Although reduced from 2009, nonaccrual loans
 Š the portion of our loan book about 
which we have the most trepidation
 Š   
remained persistently high at 2010™s end. ˚ose 
loans totaled $1.24 billion, or 2.38% of loans outstanding at December 31. A year earlier, 
nonaccrual loans had been $1.33 billion, or 2.56% of outstanding loans.
 Re˙ecting additions through the loan loss provision and subtractions through net 
charge-o˛s, the allowance for credit losses at December 31, 2010 amounted to $903 
vii
million, or 1.74% of outstanding loans. At the end of 2009, the allowance had been 
$878 million, or 1.69% of loans outstanding at the time. As noted in this space last year, 

changes in GAAP now require that loans acquired through business combinations be 

initially recorded at estimated fair value, which is based on collectible cash ˙ows that 

are net of expected credit losses. Consequently, we do not establish an allowance for 

credit losses on acquired loans unless our initial projection of expected credit losses 

associated with those loans proves insu˜cient. With that in mind, if the impact of loans 

acquired in 2010 and 2009 that were recorded at fair value is eliminated, the allowance 

related to outstanding legacy loans (that is, total outstanding loans and leases excluding 

those obtained in acquisitions subsequent to the January 1, 2009 e˛ective date of the 

change in GAAP) measured in at 1.82% of such loans. ˚at statistic was little changed 

from 1.83% at the end of 2009 because we remain cautiously concerned about the 

overall state of economic conditions and the pace of recovery. 
 Noninterest income rose to $1.11 billion last year, an increase of six percent from 
$1.05 billion in 2009. ˚at compilation re˙ects a mixture of higher revenues from 
deposit account services (that were partially o˛set by the impact from new regulations 

restricting our ability to o˛er overdraˆ protection to consumers) and lower mortgage 

banking revenues resulting from reduced origination volumes, our decision to retain 

for portfolio a higher proportion of originated loans rather than selling them for an 

up-front gain, and increased settlements related to M&T™s obligation to repurchase 

previously sold loans. Re˙ected in noninterest income were losses on bank investment 

securities of $84 million in 2010 and $137 million in 2009. For both years those losses 

were predominantly due to other-than-temporary impairment charges related to our 

holdings of private-label residential mortgage-backed securities. Noninterest income 

in 2010 included a $28 million gain related to the indemni˝cation of K Bank loans 

acquired from the FDIC. Similarly, noninterest income in 2009 included a gain of $29 

million arising from the FDIC™s indemni˝cation of acquired Bradford loans.
 Noninterest expenses declined to $1.91 billion in 2010. ˚at compares with $1.98 
billion in 2009 when we spent $89 million to integrate Provident and Bradford with 
M&T. Excluding merger-related expenses and the amortization of core deposit and 

other intangible assets from both periods so as to provide similarity of content in those 
viii
˝gures, noninterest operating expenses of $1.86 billion in 2010 were up just under  
two percent from $1.83 billion in 2009.
 ˚e e˜ciency ratio, or noninterest operating expenses divided by the sum of 
taxable-equivalent net interest income and noninterest income (exclusive of gains  
and losses from bank investment securities and the gains on the K Bank and Bradford 

transactions), measures how much M&T spends to provide service to customers and  

to generate revenue. ˚at ratio improved to 53.7% in 2010 from 56.5% in 2009.



As gratifying as it is to report the earnings and other results cited above, it is sobering to 

keep in mind that such relative success came within a context of slow economic growth, 

high unemployment and little expansion of credit. Indeed, the improvement in our 

performance as compared to the previous two years does not mean that we are content;  

our aspirations for ourselves and, especially, the customers and regions we serve, are far 

from realized. We are mindful, speci˝cally, that we have not yet returned to pre-crisis 

levels of earnings per share.
 Nonetheless, it would be disingenuous not to express pride in the accomplishments 
of the past year, achievements which represent a distinct contrast with 2009. Last year in 
this space, I had to report that our net income was sharply down and charge-o˛s notably 

upŠ
 with no assurance that both trends would not continue. In 2010, they did not. 
 Indeed, our earnings per share were almost double those of 2009 and exceeded 
our annual dividend by more than two times, allowing us to build capital. As a result, 

tangible common equity per share increased by 17.7% to $33.26 while our net operating 

return on that capital (18.95%) improved. Moreover, the ˝nal quarter of 2010 was the 

138th consecutive one in which we did not report a loss
 Š a period which, of course, 
included the ˝nancial crisis that began in the fall of 2007. Since that time, our record of 

continuing to make dividend payments, without a decrease in amount, is matched by 

only one other commercial bank that was included in the Standard & Poor™s 500 when 

the ˝nancial crisis ˝rst emerged. 
ix One would be foolish, indeed, to be blithely con˝dent that the pace of such 
improvements will inevitably continue. Still, in that regard it is important not only to 
understand what happened at M&T in 2010 but why it happened
 Š  
that is, why we were 
able to prosper and even undertake important new acquisitions. 
 In our case, adherence to a number of long-held tenets stands out as having played 
an important role. ˚ese include: our conservative underwriting and sound approach to 
extending credit; our longstanding discipline regarding the management and allocation 

of our shareholders™ capital; and our commitment to maintaining an e˜cient operating 

model that allows us to remain competitive in the communities we serve.
 In the simplest sense, the key to the performance of any traditional commercial 
bank such as M&T is the pro˝tability of the loans it makes. ˚e good news for 2010, 
and our consequent sense that we have now weathered the worst of the ˝nancial crisis, 

rests on a corporate lending culture of consistent prudence and discipline, rather 

than one which swings from dramatic loosening of standards during booms
 Š to 
disproportionate caution during busts. Our performance, in other words, is a validation 

of the M&T credit culture, one built on knowledge of local markets and borrowers in 

the regions where we do business. We maintain regional loan committees, each deeply 

familiar with their own backyards but always guided by our overall credit standards. 

Each committee is comprised of a senior credit o˜cer, a regional president, and 

experienced commercial banking managers who meet on a weekly basis. In New York 

City, where we have experienced minimal losses over the last three years, the committee 

is supplemented with outside real estate professionals with long experience as owners 

and operators in that market. ˚e value of this approach is re˙ected in the fact that 

M&T continued to extend credit to its communities consistently through the downturn. 

At the same time, our charge-o˛s as a percentage of average loans in 2010 were lowest 

amongst, and totaled only about one quarter of those experienced by, our large regional 

and super-regional peer institutions. 
 Our performance, moreover, equally re˙ects the belief that the prospects for growth 
in any ˝nancial institution engaged in the business of furthering commerce is explicitly 
linked to the underlying health of the communities it serves. During a period in which 
xmany banks responded to competition by relaxing loan pricing and credit standards 
we did not
 , for we had the discipline during the bubble years (2005-2007) to walk away 
from some lending opportunities, rather than pursuing growth for its own sake. We are, 

today, realizing the bene˝ts from turning away from the sirens of what seemed like low 

risk and high reward. Indeed, we take the view that if there is not enough demand from 

creditworthy customers, it is better for M&T to return capital to shareholders
 Šwho may 
well put it to productive use in sectors of the economy other than the banking industry.
 Still, to grow and prosper, banks must do more than realize returns on sound 
lending past; we must keep our credit window open for new customers and new loans. 
Our record of prudence and performance has made it possible for M&T to do just 

that
 Š to continue to do new business, at a time when there was widespread concern 
about how di˜cult it was to obtain credit. Over the three-year period since the onset 

of the ˝nancial crisis, we have extended some $52 billion in new credit. In 2010 alone, 

we made some 139,000 new loans, totaling $17 billion in value, and representing a 

˝ve percent increase over the $16 billion in 2009 loan originations. Moreover, some 

8,250 of these new loans went to small businesses, which are the backbone of healthy 

communities. Indeed, of all banks in the country
 Š including the biggest
 Š we ranked 
sixth, improving from ninth a year ago, in the number of Small Business Administration 

(SBA) loans originated, notwithstanding the fact that we do business in just seven states 

and the District of Columbia. We were the number one SBA lender in Bu˛alo, Rochester, 

Syracuse, Binghamton, Baltimore, Washington, D.C. and Philadelphia. 
 ˚e level of net income which we have reported depends not only on credit quality 
and net interest income, but also on our ongoing attention to the control of expenses. In 
this regard, our results re˙ected, too, an improvement in the measure of operating costs 

required to produce each dollar of revenue earned known as the e˜ciency ratio
 Š which 
fell from 56.5 cents to 53.7 cents. In the aggregate, our increase in productivity allowed 

us to provide banking services to the businesses and communities which we serve  

more competitively and proved to cushion our investors from the full force of the 

economic downturn.
 Let me underscore that the results noted above
 Š as regards credit quality, prudent 
capital allocation and management, and e˜ciency
 Š should not be understood narrowly 
xias the result of responses to the ˝nancial crisis and its aˆermath. Rather, they are the 
product of our long-established way of doing business
 Š of a culture which has led to 
a consistently positive ˝nancial performance over more than a generation. In turn, 

that culture is attributable to a workplace which inspires the loyalty of the experienced 

workforce which is central to our success. Indeed, the typical M&T employee has 

been with the Bank slightly over 10 years
 Š which is more than twice as long as the 
average for ˝rms like ours. Moreover, some 70 percent of our 13,365 employees own 

shares of our stock. In the aggregate, M&T™s directors, management and employees 

own or control some 21 percent of M&T
 Š an investment which gives them a stake in 
performance not just for one quarter or one year but for the long run.
 ˚e approach described above, in essence the mistakes that we avoided, laid the 
foundation for four transactions completed in the last two years at a reasonable price 
and smoothly integrated by an experienced workforce. Taken together, Provident, 

Bradford, K Bank and Ideal Savings have brought us to the point where our Mid-

Atlantic presence includes leading market positions in terms of number of branches, 

deposit share, middle-market lending, and extension of loans to small businesses. In 

short, our position in the Mid-Atlantic now mirrors, in most respects, our presence  

in our legacy markets in Upstate New York. 
 All of this began with our entrance into the Mid-Atlantic through our purchase of 
All˝rst Financial Inc. from Allied Irish Banks (ﬁAIBﬂ) in 2003. It would be an oversight 
on my part, were I not to acknowledge the orderly divestiture, this past November, of 

nearly a quarter of M&T shares outstanding, which had been acquired by AIB as part of 

our purchase of its All˝rst subsidiary. Unfortunately, in the wake of the banking crisis 

which had hit banks in Ireland particularly hard, our partner was forced, under duress, 

to dispose of its M&T shares, putting to an end a long and productive relationship. 

It was the relative ˝nancial health of M&T along with our previous track record of 

successful acquisitions which positioned us to undertake the second largest partnership 

in M&T™s history this past November: the pending merger with the $10.4 billion 

Wilmington Trust Corporation, headquartered in Delaware, a long-established 
xii
institution with its own storied history and loyal customer base. It is a combination 
which holds, in my view, exceptional promise for our current customers and for 

those whom we will now have the opportunity to serve in Delaware.  In key ways, 

this transaction, due to be completed by mid-year 2011, ˝ts the pro˝le of many of 

our previous and ultimately successful acquisitions. We will add a customer base and 

network of branches (48) in a region contiguous to those we already serve
 Š and in  
which we will, in one stroke, have the leading market share and become the largest  

retail bank in the state of Delaware.  
 At the same time that the acquisition of Wilmington Trust ˝ts the pattern and 
criteria of our previous acquisitions, it is also distinctive. As the ˝nancial press was 
quick to note, Wilmington™s historic role in wealth management and corporate client 

services, and the fees such a role generates, is a business which complements, rather than 

competes, with our own strengths. Wilmington brings with it a highly regarded team of 

professionals, who have honed and re˝ned their expertise with over a century of service 

to their clients. Indeed, at the time of the acquisition™s announcement, Wilmington™s 

$58.4 billion in assets under management actually exceeded those of M&T ($21.9 billion), 

even as its level of deposits ($8.3 billion) was far lower than ours ($48.7 billion). In fact, 

upon completion of the acquisition, wealth management and corporate client services will 

represent the largest source of the combined company™s fee income. Such is the value of 

Wilmington™s reputation in this area that we plan to depart from past practice and retain 

the Wilmington name for this line of business. It™s our hope and expectation, moreover, 

that the complementary strengths of M&T and Wilmington will allow for deeper 

penetration into the customer base of each. 
 Our acquisition of Wilmington Trust is not, in all likelihood, one which we could 
have even contemplated in normal times. ˚ese have not been normal times, however.  
I said publicly at the time our partnership was announced that the strategic ˝t between  

the two banks is unusually compelling. ˚is remains my strong belief.



















Saying that we at M&T feel that we have put the worst e˛ects of the ˝nancial crisis 

behind us should not be understood as meaning that the ˝nancial services industry 
xiii
broadly de˝ned has returned to a safe and sustainable condition
 Š one in which it plays 
its traditional central role of providing the oxygen of credit to American commerce. 
One cannot be that sanguine about matters when looking back on a two-year period in 

which 297 U.S. banks and thriˆs were forced out of business. It is true that our system 

of deposit insurance and regulatory oversight ensures that such failures can be handled 

in an orderly fashion. I cannot help but note, however, that, even as the ˝nancial crisis 

slowly recedes, our overall ˝nancial services industry continues to be characterized  

by attributes which contributed to that crisis
 Š characteristics which distinguish it  
from traditional banking, which impose burdens on those banks (such as M&T) that 

pursue a traditional approach and which pose signi˝cant risks to the long-term health 

of the American economy.
 Speci˝cally, I am concerned about a powerful combination of factors: increased 
concentration in the ˝nancial services sector, where pro˝ts are driven by how well 
one trades rather than the prudent extension of credit that furthers commerce; a 

resulting outsized-compensation system which disproportionately draws talents away 

not just from traditional banking but other professions crucial to economic growth; a 

government regulatory regime which both enables what I have described as this ﬁvirtual 

casinoﬂ to continue, notwithstanding its role in precipitating the ˝nancial crisis
 Š and 
which, by not recognizing the di˛erence between Main Street and Wall Street banks, 

˝nancially burdens the ﬁreal economy.ﬂ
 ˚is story begins with one of increased concentration. Banking, traditionally, has 
been a community and regionally based enterprise in the United States, one which 
relied on local knowledge to guide that crucial process of gathering and safeguarding 

customer deposits and in turn extending credit for enterprise and commerce. Done 

well, this intermediation ensures that those deposits are deployed into a diversi˝ed pool 

of investments and provides American households with liquidity and a return on their 

savings. Over the past generation, however, the pro˝le of the ˝nancial services industry 

has changed dramatically. In 1990, the largest six ˝nancial institutions accounted for nine 

percent of all U.S. domestic deposits and 14 percent of all banking assets. As of September 

30, 2010, the six biggest banks accounted for fully 35 percent of such deposits and 53 

percent of banking assets. Concentration, of course, inevitably raises the concern
 Š so 
xiv
vividly realized in the fall of 2008
 Š that poor decisions at such outsized institutions can 
lead to ﬁsystemic risk.ﬂ  In essence, the aggregation of risks in the hands of so few has the 
potential to impact the fortunes of so many. But, moreover, even absent an immediate 

crisis, the business model and practices of the major players in this recon˝gured ˝nancial 

services industry pose signi˝cant problems for the American economy. 
 ˚is historic change has led to a sharp distinction between the largest banks and 
smaller, traditional ones, as to their sources of income. Speci˝cally, the largest bank 
holding companies have come to rely on a much broader and complex range of activities, 

in exchange for the prospect that higher returns might be realized. ˚ese activities 

include trading in all shapes and forms of derivatives, credit default swaps, mortgage-

backed securities and other even more complex and exotic instruments (oˆen associated 

with high amounts of leverage)
 Š for which the collapse in value played the key role in 
precipitating the 2008 crisis. 
 It is an understatement to say that trading-based income is important to the largest 
˝nancial services companies. In 2009, the six largest bank holding companies had 
combined trading revenues of $59.7 billion and pre-tax income of just $51.4 billion. 

In 2010, the story is similar. ˚e top six made $75.7 billion in pretax income aided 

with $56.1 billion of trading revenues. Trading revenues are not only of considerable 

importance to the pre-tax earnings of these institutions
 Š but serve to markedly 
distinguish them from traditional commercial banks, which are not typically involved 

in such endeavors. To put these numbers in perspective, the trading revenues of these 

six institutions during those two years represented 92.8% and 93.1% of such revenues at 

all American banks. Indeed, during those two periods, the combined trading revenues 

of just four of the six banks amount to more than the total income, before taxes, of the 

rest of the entire U.S. banking system. ˚e fact that an employee of an investment bank 

was apparently willing to engage in the theˆ of a soˆware program designed to provide 

trading advantage, and that his employer felt it important to pursue legal action as a 

result, re˙ects the central importance of trading to these organizations. 
 Wall Street banks are not only central to such markets; a good case can be made 
that they came to exist in the ˝rst place in large part because of the desires and creativity 
of Wall Street itself. ˚e development of these securities required, aˆer all, enormous 
xvamounts of talent and capital, such that few ˝rms can command. Indeed, according to 
˛e New York Times
, there are only ˝ve U.S.
 Œ based banks that meet the requirements to 
become a member of the exclusive clearinghouses involved in enabling such derivative 

markets to function. ˚ese trading exchanges have been created ostensibly to provide 

cheaper, more e˛ective ˝nancing for the overall economy. In fact, one can make a case 

that trading indirectly contributes to economic growth by facilitating more e˜cient 

˝nancial markets. However, unlike traditional commerce, where success is de˝ned 

by the creation of new industries and jobs through entrepreneurship and innovation, 

too oˆen the core function of trading is redistribution of wealth to those who have 

a trading advantage, be it talent or capital, from those who trade out of compulsion 

(e.g. distressed entities) or trade with limited knowledge of the instruments being 

traded. ˚at such activity is being conducted by bank holding companies which enjoy 

government protection represents a profound departure from the traditional banking 

model
 Š that in which lenders and creditors knew and had to trust one another and 
built relationships meant to serve our capital allocation needs. But this is less to 

comment on the merits or demerits of such trading than to emphasize that those 

˝nancial services institutions which engage in and rely on it are fundamentally di˛erent 

than traditional banks
 Š and that the public should not view them as indistinguishable 
and government should not regulate and support them as if they were.
 To categorize such institutions as of the same species as traditional commercial 
banks is akin to describing dinosaurs as simple reptiles
 Š it is true but profoundly 
misleading. In fact, there are a number of reasons to be concerned that their growth 
is already leading to collateral damage of traditional banks
 Šand, by extension, to the 
overall economy. Consider, for instance, the role that trading-oriented ˝nancial services 

˝rms play in making possible outsized compensation packages which have proven so 

unpopular with the public. Speci˝cally, the rapid or even instantaneous recognition 

of huge trading pro˝ts have helped to build a system of bonus-based compensation, 

keyed to near-term results and out of proportion to anything in the past. In 1929, in 

the wake of the most devastating ˝nancial crisis in U.S. history, compensation for 

employees in all sectors of the ˝nancial services industry was just 1.5 times that of the 

average non-farm U.S. worker. By the 1940s, that same ratio of wages narrowed to just 

1.0-1.2Š
 and remained in that range until 1980. A major change, however, has occurred 
xvi
from 1980 onward, as select sectors of the ˝nancial services industry have witnessed a 
dramatic increase in annual compensation
 Š and pulled away from other parts of the 
American economy. By 2009, employees in the securities and investments sector, which 

includes investment banks, securities brokerages and commodity dealers, earned 3.4 

times as much as an average U.S. worker. Indeed, the average 2009 investment banking 

compensation at four of the top six banks was at least 6.0 times that of an average 

American worker. Compare this to employees in the credit intermediaries sector, which 

includes commercial banks like M&T, who earned just 1.2 times the average non-farm 

employee, a level virtually unchanged from 1980 and below that of 1929.
 When one compares trading-oriented ˝nancial services ˝rms to other well-educated 
and well-compensated professionals, the picture remains similar. Consider the following: 
in the letter to shareholders in the 1990 M&T Annual Report, I expressed the view that 

executive compensation at seven of the country™s largest banking enterprises, what were 

then being called ﬁmoney center banks,ﬂ had grown disproportionately. Speci˝cally, 

I compared the numbers involved to those of the starting salaries of newly minted 

Harvard Business School (HBS) graduates. At that time, based on data from 1989, chief 

executives at these top bank holding companies earned $2.8 million on average or 49 

times that earned by a HBS graduate ($57,000) and 97 times the U.S. median household 

income ($28,906). By 2007, those ratios had changed dramatically. ˚e top six bank 

holding company CEOs were earning an average of $26 million, or 192 times the  

starting HBS compensation ($135,000) and fully 516 times the U.S. median household 

income ($50,233). 
 Needless to say, something is out of kilter when the top bank holding company 
CEOs are being paid at such a great multiple of median household income
 Š and, indeed, 
2.3 times the average total CEO compensation ($11.2 million) of the top Fortune 50 non-
bank companies. Beyond these numbers themselves, it is worth raising a common-sense 

question here. Should the chief executives of ˝nancial services ˝rms logically earn more 

than those in the general commercial economy that they are supposed to serve, through 

e˜cient capital allocation? Might we not, rather, expect that if capital is put to good use, 

management of those ˝rms producing goods and services and thus providing greater 

value for the overall economy should logically be compensated higher than those bank 
xvii
executives assisting them? Indeed, only a generation earlier, in 1969, the compensation 
for those two groups was similarŠ
 $270,000 for bank executives and $276,000 for 
Fortune 50 non-bank CEOs.  
 ˚is is not to suggest that trading in general should be limited or that remuneration 
to those who trade should be capped. ˚ere appears to be ample opportunity for 
personal ˝nancial gain, for example in unregulated industries such as hedge funds, 

which do not enjoy government support and where the 25 highest paid executives 

earned $25.3 billion collectively, or an average of $1 billion per person, in 2009. Leaving 

aside whether one should be able to generate so much wealth in such a short period of 

time, it is of greater concern when we allow the creation of a business model, predicated 

on wealth transfer rather than wealth creation, to have access to government protection 

and resources and thus linked their risk pro˝le to that of traditional banks. To 

emphasize: we should not be inherently concerned when successful business leaders are 

well compensated. But to take activities that are purely capitalistic endeavors and bring 

them into a regulated environment under the umbrella of insured protections is simply 

not prudent. Would it not be better to let those engaged in such activities live and die 

by the pursuit of their fortunes rather than impose a burden on the whole economy. 

˚e so-called Volcker rule, meant to disentangle the trading of big ˝nancial institutions 

from their more traditional commercial banking operations, represents a start toward 

disassembling this unsafe business model. But the problem is deeper and broader.  
 In all the current discussion about increased regulatory oversight regarding the 
prevention of future crises, too little attention has been paid to downstream e˛ects, 
namely the economic burden borne by traditional commercial banks like M&T, and 

in turn the customers we serve. In this context, readers of this Message know that I 

have, for some time, been concerned about the extent of banking regulation and the 

cost of complying with it. In 2007, for instance, I noted that fully $71 million of M&T™s 

expenses, or 7.4 percent of pre-tax income, were the result of regulatory compliance, 

including our obligations to report to such authorities as the Federal Reserve, the 

O˜ce of the Comptroller of the Currency, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban 

Development, Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, U.S. Securities and Exchange 

Commission and state banking examiners. Since then, these costs have increased 
xviii
substantially; our latest analysis indicates that they have grown some 25.6 percent 
and now total $89.7 million. In addition, M&T has had to absorb a new, larger set of 

costs imposed in the wake of and as a result of the ˝nancial crisis. Notably, M&T™s 

assessment paid to the FDIC
 Š responsible for protecting depositors in the wake of bank 
failures
 Š has grown from just $6.7 million in 2008 to $79.3 million for 2010. We have 
also seen the development of post-crisis limitations on previously signi˝cant sources 

of revenue
 Š the result of the undi˛erentiating public and legislative backlash against 
ﬁbanks,ﬂ whether on Wall Street or on Main Street. For example, the imposition of new 

regulations regarding overdraˆ fees (Regulation E) will result in a reduction in revenue 

of some $75 million on an annualized basis. Had they been fully e˛ective during 

2010, added together, these compliance and new regulatory developments would have 

amounted to over $244 million and represented 22.3 percent of our 2010 pre-tax income. 

Other pending actions, such as the so-called Durbin amendment with its price controls 

on debit card interchange fees, are di˜cult to quantify at this point in time. However, 

this combination of increased costs and foregone revenues, coupled with undoubtedly 

higher capital and liquidity requirements which will result from the Basel III 

international banking standards, will lead inevitably to a higher cost of credit for bank 

customers. In fact, the recent proposal to designate all U.S. bank holding companies with 

more than $50 billion in assets as ﬁSystemically Importantﬂ and the implication that they 

should be subject to higher capital standards regardless of the riskiness of the underlying 

activities in which they engage has likely already led to increases in our cost of extending 

credit. In other words, those who will pay for the sins that sparked the ˝nancial crisis 

will be the small business owners, entrepreneurs, innovators, and individuals who rely 

on Main Street banks like M&T. When framed this way, one would hope that neither the 

White House nor the Congress would endorse such a policy
 Š yet this is the net e˛ect  
of regulations and costs imposed on traditional credit intermediaries in the wake of  

the ˝nancial crisis.
 Nor is a foreseeable higher cost of providing credit the only way in which vital 
components of the ﬁreal economyﬂ are eroded by policies and practices which favor 
and, indeed, provide government protection, for the too-big-to-fail ˝nancial services 

institutions. We should not be surprised to ˝nd that an industry which compensates  
xixits employees nearly three and a half times as much as the average American would lure 
talent away from such crucial ˝elds as science, medicine, and engineering. In fact, the 

compensation di˛erential relative to other sectors has widened from a generation ago. 

In 1980, those with engineering degrees were paid 15 to 25 percent more than ˝nance 

professionals with comparable education. By 2005, ˝nance professionals with advanced 

degrees earned 30 to 40 percent more than engineers. It is no surprise then that nearly 

25 percent of new employment-seeking graduates of the Massachusetts Institute of 

Technology and the California Institute of Technology (MIT and Caltech) chose jobs 

in the ˝nancial sector during 2004-2009. When those with engineering and scienti˝c 

acumen at the highest levels are drawn, instead, to the capital markets, one fears that 

innovations
 Š and, indeed, new industries
 Š may be stillborn, as a result. 
 Such, I fear, are the bitter fruits of that which I have described above: a ˝nancial 
services industry unmoored from its traditional role in the commercial economy; 

a regulatory regime which protects outsized compensation just for sheer trading; a 

failure to distinguish between such activity and traditional banking, as well a failure to 

recognize that the activity of an institution, not its form, should be the proper focus of 

regulation. (Put another way, not all bank holding companies are created equal.) Surely 

this is not a ﬁsystemﬂ we would plan; it has grown up over time and has come to distort 

our labor and capital markets
 Š and puts our economy at great risk.
 Leˆ on its current course, ˝nancial ﬁreformﬂ may do little to prevent or stem  
a future crisis nor relieve the regulatory burden on the ﬁreal economy.ﬂ Wall Street 

has spawned a culture where fortunes are created overnight and the people who work 

there are paid out of proportion to the rest of society. ˚e temptation of easy riches has 

already taken many of the best and brightest away from professions for which they were 

trained and into which they would have entered. ˚e inability to di˛erentiate between 

Wall Street and Main Street by Washington, as well as by the public at large, has hurt 

the image of Main Street banks and increased their cost of operations. One has to 

question whether we haven™t created the makings of the next ˝nancial crisis or, indeed, 

disrupted the balance in our society between rich and poor. Is this an issue any less 

important than the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, the trouble with the Euro, the crises  

in the Middle East, the debt load of the U.S. itself, or the imbalance of trade with China?     
xx Far too oˆen, in the pursuit of ˝nancial reforms, we see those in leadership 
positions
 Š whether in the public or private sector
 Š putting narrow interests ˝rst,  
seeking either the votes of an aroused base or the pro˝ts which come with special 
advantages. We must seek to curb these tendencies. It is always good to report, as  

I have once again been able to do, that M&T is doing well. It is much to be preferred, 

however, for M&T to thrive as part of a thriving America. ˚at is what we must  

hope for
 Š and work to achieve.
˚is past year saw the departure of Colm E. Doherty, the former AIB Group Managing 

Director, from our Board of Directors. He had served as a director of M&T Bank 

Corporation and M&T Bank since September 20, 2005 until June 9, 2010, just prior to  

the conclusion of M&T™s relationship with Allied Irish Banks noted above. We thank 

Colm for his service and wish him, and all those at AIB
 with whom we had the  
privilege of working, well.
 Robert G. Wilmers 
Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive O˜cer
February 18, 2011
xxiRobert G. Wilmers 
Chairman of the Board  

and Chief Executive O˜cer
Michael P. Pinto 
Vice Chairman
Mark J. Czarnecki
 President

James J. Beardi
 Executive Vice President 

Robert J. Bojdak 
Executive Vice President  

and Chief Credit O˜cer
Stephen J. Braunscheidel 
Executive Vice President
Atwood Collins, III 
Executive Vice President
Richard S. Gold
 Executive Vice President

Brian E. Hickey 
Executive Vice President
René F. Jones 
Executive Vice President  

and Chief Financial O˜cer
Darren J. King 
Executive Vice President
Kevin J. Pearson 
Executive Vice President 
Michele D. Trolli 
Executive Vice President and  

Chief Information O˜cer
D. Scott N. Warman 
Executive Vice President 

and Treasurer
John L. D™Angelo 
Senior Vice President  

and General Auditor
Drew J. P˝rrman 
Senior Vice President  

and General Counsel
Michael R. Spychala 
Senior Vice President  

and Controller
Robert G. Wilmers 
Chairman of the Board  

and Chief Executive O˜cer
Jorge G. Pereira 
Vice Chairman 

Private Investor
Michael P. Pinto 
Vice Chairman
Brent D. Baird 
Private Investor
Robert J. Bennett 
Former Chairman of the Board 

M&T Bank Corporation 

Private Investor
C. Angela Bontempo
 Former President and  
Chief Executive O˜cer 

Saint Vincent Health System
Robert T. Brady 
Chairman of the Board  

and Chief Executive O˜cer 

Moog Inc.
Michael D. Buckley 
Former Group Chief Executive  

Allied Irish Banks, p.l.c. 

Non-Executive Chairman 

DCC plc
T. Je˛erson Cunningham III 
Former Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive O˜cer 

Premier National Bancorp, Inc.
Mark J. Czarnecki
 President

Gary N. Geisel 
Former Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive O˜cer 

Provident Bankshares Corporation
Patrick W.E. Hodgson 

President 

Cinnamon Investments Limited
Richard G. King
 Chairman of the  
Executive Committee 

Utz Quality Foods, Inc.
Melinda R. Rich 
Vice Chairman 

Rich Products Corporation  

and President  

Rich Entertainment Group
Robert E. Sadler, Jr.
 Former President and  

Chief Executive O˜cer 

M&T Bank Corporation
Herbert L. Washington 
President 

H.L.W. Fast Track, Inc.




xxii


Robert G. Wilmers 
Chairman of the Board  

and Chief Executive O˜cer
Michael P. Pinto 
Vice Chairman and  

Chairman and Chief Executive 

O˜cer 
 Œ Mid-Atlantic Division
Mark J. Czarnecki
 President
Executive Vice Presidents
James J. Beardi
 Robert J. Bojdak 
Stephen J. Braunscheidel 

Atwood Collins, III 

John F. Cook 

Richard S. Gold
 Brian E. Hickey 

René F. Jones 

Darren J. King 

Kevin J. Pearson 

Michele D. Trolli  

D. Scott N. Warman
Senior Vice Presidents
Je˛rey L. Barbeau 
Keith M. Belanger 

Peter M. Black 

Daniel M. Boscarino 

Timothy L. Brenner
 
Robert H. Brown 

Daniel J. Burns 

Noel Carroll 

Elizabeth F. Carson 

David K. Chamberlain
 August J. Chiasera 

Robert L. Cieslica, Sr. 

Janet M. Coletti 

Jerome W. Collier 

R. Joe Crosswhite 

John L. D™Angelo 

Scott E. Dagenais 

Carol A. Dalton 

Ayan DasGupta 

Michael A. Drury 

Gary D. Dudish
 Je˛rey W. Durkee
 
Donald I. Dussing, Jr.
 Peter J. Eliopoulos
 
Ralph W. Emerson, Jr. 

Je˛rey A. Evershed
 Dennis W. Ferguson
 
Tari L. Flannery 
Andrew D. Fornarola 

James M. Frank 

Robert S. Graber 

Sam Guerrieri, Jr.
 Carl W. Jordan 

Michael T. Keegan 

Nicholas P. Lambrow
 Michele V. Langdon 

Je˛rey A. Long
 Robert G. Loughrey 

Alfred F. Luhr, III 

Paula Mandell 

Gino A. Martocci 

Louis P. Mathews, Jr.
 Richard J. McCarthy
 Mark J. Mendel
 Paul D. Moore 

Michael S. Murchie 

Allen J. Naples 

Drew J. P˝rrman 

Paul T. Pitman 

John S. Powell 

Michael J. Quinlivan 

Christopher D. Randall
 Daniel J. Ripienski 

John P. Rumschik 

Matthew N. Schiro 

Susan F. Sciarra 

Douglas A. Sheline
 
Michael J. Shryne 

Glenn R. Small 

Philip M. Smith 

Matthew M. Speare 

Michael R. Spychala 

Kenneth G. ˚ompson 

Michael J. Todaro 

Christopher E. Tolomeo 

Michael P. Wallace 

Linda J. Weinberg 

Je˛rey A. Wellington

Robert G. Wilmers 
Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive O˜cer
Jorge G. Pereira 
Vice Chairman 

Private Investor
Michael P. Pinto 
Vice Chairman and  

Chairman and Chief Executive 

O˜cer Œ Mid-Atlantic Division
Brent D. Baird 
Private Investor
Robert J. Bennett 

Former Chairman of the Board 

M&T Bank Corporation 

Private Investor
C. Angela Bontempo
 Former President and  
Chief Executive O˜cer 

Saint Vincent Health System
Robert T. Brady 
Chairman of the Board  

and Chief Executive O˜cer 

Moog Inc.
Michael D. Buckley 
Former Group Chief Executive  

Allied Irish Banks, p.l.c. 

Non-Executive Chairman 

DCC plc
T. Je˛erson Cunningham III 
Former Chairman of the Board  

and Chief Executive O˜cer 

Premier National Bancorp, Inc.
Mark J. Czarnecki
 President

Gary N. Geisel 
Former Chairman of the Board 

and Chief Executive O˜cer 

Provident Bankshares Corporation
Patrick W.E. Hodgson 
President  

Cinnamon Investments Limited
Richard G. King
 Chairman of the  
Executive Committee 

Utz Quality Foods, Inc.
Melinda R. Rich 
Vice Chairman  

Rich Products Corporation  

and President 

Rich Entertainment Group 
Robert E. Sadler, Jr. 
Former President and  

Chief Executive O˜cer 

M&T Bank Corporation
Herbert L. Washington 
President 

H.L.W. Fast Track, Inc.
xxiii

Je˛rey A. Wellington
 Bu˚alo
Allen J. Naples
 Central New York
Michael S. Murchie
 Central Pennsylvania
Robert H. Newton, Jr. 
Central Virginia
Nicholas P. Lambrow
 Chesapeake and Central 
Maryland
Scott E. Dagenais 
Greater Baltimore  

Middle Market
Peter M. Black
Greater Washington  

and Northern Virginia
Michael T. Keegan
Hudson Valley North  

and Albany
Atwood Collins, III
 Mid-Atlantic
Gino A. Martocci 
New York City  

and Long Island
Philip H. Johnson
 Northern Pennsylvania 
Daniel J. Burns
 Rochester
Glenn R. Small
 Southern New York
R. Joe Crosswhite
 Southern Pennsylvania
 Paula Mandell 
Tarrytown


N˜˚ Y˛˝˙ Sˆˇˆ˜
Central 
 New York Division
Aminy I. Audi
Robert J. Bennett

James V. Breuer

Carl V. Byrne

Richard R. Gri˜th

Robert H. Linn

J. Kemper Matt

Nicholas O. Matt

Robert U. Roberts

Debbie L. Sydow

John A. Zawadzki

Richard J. Zick
Hudson Valley Division
Elizabeth P. Allen
Kevin M. Bette

Nancy E. Carey Cassidy

Edward vK. Cunningham, Jr.

T. Je˛erson Cunningham III

Michael H. Graham

Christopher Madden

William Murphy

˚omas D. O™Connor, Jr.
Lewis J. Ruge

Constantine Sidamon-Eristo˛

Albert K. Smiley

Archibald A. Smith III

Charles C. Tallardy, III

Peter Van Kleeck

Alan Yassky
Jamestown Division
Sebastian A. Baggiano
John R. Churchill 

Steven A. Godfrey

Joseph C. Johnson

Stan Lundine

Michael D. Metzger

Kim Peterson

Allen Short 

Michael J. Wellman
New York City/Long Island 
Division
Earle S. Altman
Jay I. Anderson

Brent D. Baird

John H. Benisch

Louis Brause

Patrick J. Callan

Lloyd M. Goldman

Peter Hauspurg

Gary Jacob

Michael D. Sullivan

Alair A. Townsend
Rochester Division
William A. Buckingham
R. Carlos Carballada

Timothy D. Fournier
 
Jocelyn Goldberg-Schaible 

Laurence Kessler

Arnold Klinsky
 Anne M. Kress

Joseph M. Lobozzo, II

James H. Norman

Carolyn A. Portanova

John K. Purcell

Victor E. Salerno

Derace L. Scha˛er

Albert J. Simone

Amy L. Tait

Linda Cornell Weinstein
Southern  
New York Division
David M. Ahlers
George Akel, Jr.

Lee P. Bearsch

Richard J. Cole

Victor Del Rosso

Terry R. Wood
Pˇ/ 
Mˇ˝ˇ˘/ V˝˘ˇ / 

Wˆ Vˇ
Baltimore-Washington  
Division
˚omas S. Bozzuto 
Daniel J. Canzoniero 

Robert A. Chrencik 

Scott E. Dorsey 

Kevin R. Dunbar 

Gary N. Geisel 
John F. Jaeger 

Larry Lessans
 Warner P. Mason
 
Pamela Mazza 

˚omas R. Mullen
 
John H. Phelps 

Marc B. Terrill
Central 
 Pennsylvania Division
Christopher M. Cicconi
Mark X. DiSanto

Sondra Wolfe Elias

Scott A. Heintzelman

Martin G. Lane, Jr.

Ronald M. Leitzel

Leroy S. Maxwell, Jr.

Geo˛rey N. Miller

Ivo V. Otto, III  

William F. Rothman

Lynn C. Rotz  

Herbert E. Sandifer

Ronnie L. Scott  

John D. Sheridan

Frank R. Sourbeer
Central
 Virginia Division
Franco Ambrogi
 Richard Barrett
 Otis L. Brown 
Edward Carl
 Linda Clevenger 

John G. Coor 

Peter Francisco 

Gilbert P. Harris, Jr. 

Bart H. Mitchell 

Gary W. Parker
 J. Lynn Parsons

Charles W. Payne

Robert S. Seal 

Katheryn E. Surface Burks 

Melanie S. ˚ompson
Chesapeake Upper  
Shore Division
Richard Bernstein
Lawrence L. Davis

Hugh E. Grunden

William W. McAllister, Jr.

Lee ﬁNashﬂ McMahan
Chesapeake Lower  
Shore Division
Michael G. Abercrombie, Jr.
John H. Harrison

John M. McClellan

James F. Morris

John M. Stern
Eastern  
Pennsylvania Division
A. Joseph Antanavage
Debra C. Blaschak

Paul J. Datte

Richard E. Fehr

Steven I. Field

Roy A. Heim

Donald E. Jacobs

Joseph H. Jones, Jr.

David C. Laudeman

Eric M. Mika
Stephen M. Moyer

Robert P. Powell

Gerald A. Ravitz

William J. Rosini

F. Dale Schoeneman

Larry A. Wittig
Northeast  
Mid-Atlantic Division
Richard Alter
Clarence C. Boyle, Jr.

Nicole A. Funk

John N. Kunkel

James Lambdin

˚omas C. Mottley

Paul T. Muddiman

John D. Pursell Jr.

John ˚omas Sadowski, Jr.

Kimberly L. Wagner
Craig A. Ward
Northeastern  

Pennsylvania Division
Richard S. Bishop
Christopher L. Borton

Maureen M. Bu˛alino

Stephen N. Clemente

Harold E. Flack, II

Robert Gill

˚omas F. Torbik

Murray Uˇerg
Northern  
Pennsylvania Division
Sherwin O. Albert, Jr.
Je˛rey A. Cerminaro

Cli˛ord R. Coldren

Timothy J. Crotty

James E. Douthat

Charlene A. Friedman

Edward A. Friedman

Steven P. Johnson

Kenneth R. Levitzky

Robert E. More

John D. Rinehart

J. David Smith

Donald E. Stringfellow

Paul M. Walison
Philadelphia Division
Steven A. Berger
Ruth S. Gehring

Robert N. Reeves, Jr.

Robert W. Sorrell

Steven L. Sugarman

Christina Wagoner
Western  
Pennsylvania Division
Jodi L. Cessna
Paul I. Detweiler, III

Philip E. Devorris

Michael A. Fiore

Joseph A. Grappone

Daniel R. Lawruk

Gerald E. Murray

Robert F. Pennington

Joseph S. Sheetz

William T. Ward
J. Douglas Wolf 



xxiv


UNITEDSTATESSECURITIESANDEXCHANGECOMMISSION
Washington,D.C.20549
Form10-K
¥ANNUALREPORTPURSUANTTOSECTION13OR15(d)
OFTHESECURITIESEXCHANGEACTOF1934
ForthefiscalyearendedDecember31,2010
ornTRANSITIONREPORTPURSUANTTOSECTION13OR15(d)
OFTHESECURITIESEXCHANGEACTOF1934
Commissionfilenumber1-9861
M&TBANKCORPORATION
(Exactnameofregistrantasspecifiedinitscharter)
NewYork16-0968385
(Stateofincorporation)(I.R.S.EmployerIdentificationNo.)
OneM&TPlaza,Buffalo,NewYork
(Addressofprincipalexecutiveoffices)
14203(ZipCode)
Registrant™stelephonenumber,includingareacode:
716-842-5445SecuritiesregisteredpursuanttoSection12(b)oftheAct:
TitleofEachClassNameofEachExchangeonWhichRegistered
CommonStock,$.50parvalueNewYorkStockExchange
SecuritiesregisteredpursuanttoSection12(g)oftheAct:
8.234%CapitalSecuritiesofM&TCapitalTrustI
(andtheGuaranteeofM&TBankCorporationwithrespectthereto)
(Titleofclass)
8.234%JuniorSubordinatedDebenturesof
M&TBankCorporation
(Titleofclass)
Indicatebycheckmarkiftheregistrantisawell-knownseasonedissuer,asdefinedinRule405ofthe
SecuritiesAct.Yes
¥NonIndicatebycheckmarkiftheregistrantisnotrequiredtofilereportspursuanttoSection13or
Section15(d)oftheAct.Yes
nNo¥Indicatebycheckmarkwhethertheregistrant(1)hasfiledallreportsrequiredtobefiledbySection13
or15(d)oftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934duringthepreceding12months,and(2)hasbeensubjectto

suchfilingrequirementsforthepast90days.Yes
¥NonIndicatebycheckmarkwhethertheregistranthassubmittedelectronicallyandpostedonitscorporate
Website,ifany,everyInteractiveDataFilerequiredtobesubmittedandpostedpursuanttoRule405of

RegulationS-Tduringthepreceding12months(orforsuchshorterperiodthattheregistrantwasrequiredto

submitandpostsuchfiles).Yes
¥NonIndicatebycheckmarkifdisclosureofdelinquentfilerspursuanttoItem405ofRegulationS-Kisnot
containedherein,andwillnotbecontained,tothebestofregistrant™sknowledge,indefinitiveproxyor

informationstatementsincorporatedbyreferenceinPartIIIofthisForm10-Koranyamendmenttothis

Form10-K.
nIndicatebycheckmarkwhethertheregistrantisalargeacceleratedfiler,anacceleratedfiler,anon-
acceleratedfiler,orasmallerreportingcompany.Seethedefinitionsofﬁlargeacceleratedfiler,ﬂﬁaccelerated

filer,ﬂandﬁsmallerreportingcompanyﬂinRule12b-2oftheExchangeAct.(Checkone):
Largeacceleratedfiler
¥Acceleratedfiler
nNon-acceleratedfiler
n(Donotcheckifasmallerreportingcompany)
Smallerreportingcompany
nIndicatebycheckmarkwhethertheregistrantisashellcompany(asdefinedinRule12b-2ofthe
Act).Yes
nNo¥AggregatemarketvalueoftheCommonStock,$0.50parvalue,heldbynon-affiliatesoftheregistrant,
computedbyreferencetotheclosingpriceasofthecloseofbusinessonJune30,2010:$6,778,614,643.
NumberofsharesoftheCommonStock,$0.50parvalue,outstandingasofthecloseofbusinesson
January31,2011:120,207,579shares.
DocumentsIncorporatedByReference:
(1)PortionsoftheProxyStatementforthe2011AnnualMeetingofShareholdersofM&TBank
CorporationinPartsIIandIII.
M&TBANKCORPORATION
Form10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2010
CROSS-REFERENCESHEET
Form10-K
Page
PARTI
Item1.Business
.......................................................4
StatisticaldisclosurepursuanttoGuide3
I.Distributionofassets,liabilities,andshareholders™equity;interestratesand
interestdifferential
A.Averagebalancesheets
.......................................45
B.Interestincome/expenseandresultingyieldorrateonaverageinterest-
earningassets(includingnon-accrualloans)andinterest-bearing

liabilities..................................................45
C.Rate/volumevariances
........................................24
II.Investmentportfolio
AYear-endbalances...
........................................22
B.Maturityscheduleandweightedaverageyield
......................80
C.Aggregatecarryingvalueofsecuritiesthatexceedtenpercentof
shareholders™equity.
........................................115
III.Loanportfolio
AYear-endbalances...
........................................22,118
B.Maturitiesandsensitivitiestochangesininterestrates..
.............78
C.Riskelements
Nonaccrual,pastdueandrenegotiatedloans
.......................59,119
Actualandproformainterestoncertainloans...
..................
119,122
Nonaccrualpolicy...
........................................107
Loanconcentrations.
........................................67
IV.Summaryofloanlossexperience
A.Analysisoftheallowanceforloanlosses...
.......................57,
121-123Factorsinfluencingmanagement™sjudgmentconcerningtheadequacyof
theallowanceandprovision.
..................................
56-67,108,121-123
B.Allocationoftheallowanceforloanlosses.
.......................66,
121,123
V.Deposits
A.Averagebalancesandrates..
..................................45
B.Maturityscheduleofdomestictimedepositswithbalancesof$100,000or
more...
..................................................81
VI.Returnonequityandassets
.......................................24,38,84
VII.Short-termborrowings..
........................................128
Item1A.RiskFactors.
..................................................24-27
Item1B.UnresolvedStaffComments
.......................................27
Item2.Properties..
..................................................27
Item3.LegalProceedings.
.............................................27
Item4.(RemovedandReserved).
........................................27
ExecutiveOfficersoftheRegistrant
.................................27-29
PARTII
Item5.MarketforRegistrant™sCommonEquity,RelatedShareholderMattersand
IssuerPurchasesofEquitySecurities...
.............................29-32
A.Principalmarket
............................................29
Marketprices.
.............................................97
B.Approximatenumberofholdersatyear-end
.......................22
2Form10-K
Page
C.Frequencyandamountofdividendsdeclared
......................
23-24,97,105
D.Restrictionsondividends...
..................................
8-16E.Securitiesauthorizedforissuanceunderequitycompensationplans.....30,132-134

F.Performancegraph..
........................................31
G.Repurchasesofcommonstock
.................................
31-32Item6.SelectedFinancialData..
........................................32
A.Selectedconsolidatedyear-endbalances
...........................22
B.Consolidatedearnings,etc..
..................................23
Item7.Management™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsof
Operations.
..................................................32-98
Item7A.QuantitativeandQualitativeDisclosuresAboutMarketRisk.
.............99
Item8.FinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData..
.......................99
A.ReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReporting...
.............100
B.ReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm
............101
C.ConsolidatedBalanceSheetŠDecember31,2010and2009
...........102
D.ConsolidatedStatementofIncomeŠYearsendedDecember31,2010,
2009and2008
.............................................103
E.ConsolidatedStatementofCashFlowsŠYearsendedDecember31,
2010,2009and2008.
........................................104
F.ConsolidatedStatementofChangesinShareholders™EquityŠYears
endedDecember31,2010,2009and2008..
.......................105
G.NotestoFinancialStatements
..................................
106-168
H.QuarterlyTrends
............................................97
Item9.ChangesinandDisagreementswithAccountantsonAccountingandFinancial
Disclosure..
..................................................169
Item9A.ControlsandProcedures.
........................................169
A.Conclusionsofprincipalexecutiveofficerandprincipalfinancialofficer
regardingdisclosurecontrolsandprocedures
......................169
B.Management™sannualreportoninternalcontroloverfinancial
reporting.................................................169
C.Attestationreportoftheregisteredpublicaccountingfirm
............169
D.Changesininternalcontroloverfinancialreporting
.................169
Item9B.OtherInformation.
.............................................169
PARTIII
Item10.Directors,ExecutiveOfficersandCorporateGovernance
.................169
Item11.ExecutiveCompensation.
........................................169
Item12.SecurityOwnershipofCertainBeneficialOwnersandManagementand
RelatedStockholderMatters
......................................170
Item13.CertainRelationshipsandRelatedTransactions,andDirectorIndependence..170

Item14.PrincipalAccountingFeesandServices.
.............................170
PARTIV
Item15.ExhibitsandFinancialStatementSchedules
...........................170
SIGNATURES.
........................................................171-172
EXHIBITINDEX
......................................................173-175
3PARTI
Item1.
Business.M&TBankCorporation(ﬁRegistrantﬂorﬁM&Tﬂ)isaNewYorkbusinesscorporationwhichisregistered
asabankholdingcompanyundertheBankHoldingCompanyActof1956,asamended(ﬁBHCAﬂ)and
underArticleIII-AoftheNewYorkBankingLaw(ﬁBankingLawﬂ).Theprincipalexecutiveofficesofthe
RegistrantarelocatedatOneM&TPlaza,Buffalo,NewYork14203.TheRegistrantwasincorporatedin

November1969.TheRegistrantanditsdirectandindirectsubsidiariesarecollectivelyreferredtoherein
astheﬁCompany.ﬂAsofDecember31,2010theCompanyhadconsolidatedtotalassetsof$68.0billion,
depositsof$49.8billionandshareholders™equityof$8.4billion.TheCompanyhad12,031full-timeand

1,334part-timeemployeesasofDecember31,2010.
AtDecember31,2010,theRegistranthadtwowhollyownedbanksubsidiaries:M&TBankand
M&TBank,NationalAssociation(ﬁM&TBank,N.A.ﬂ).Thebankscollectivelyofferawiderangeof

commercialbanking,trustandinvestmentservicestotheircustomers.AtDecember31,2010,M&TBank
represented99%ofconsolidatedassetsoftheCompany.
TheCompanyfromtimetotimeconsidersacquiringbanks,thriftinstitutions,branchofficesof
banksorthriftinstitutions,orotherbusinesseswithinmarketscurrentlyservedbytheCompanyorin
otherlocationsthatwouldcomplementtheCompany™sbusinessoritsgeographicreach.TheCompany
haspursuedacquisitionopportunitiesinthepast,continuestoreviewdifferentopportunities,including

thepossibilityofmajoracquisitions,andintendstocontinuethispractice.
RelationshipwithAlliedIrishBanks,p.l.c.
OnApril1,2003,M&TcompletedtheacquisitionofAllfirstFinancialInc.(ﬁAllfirstﬂ),abankholding
companyheadquarteredinBaltimore,MarylandfromAlliedIrishBanks,p.l.c.(ﬁAIBﬂ).Undertheterms
oftheAgreementandPlanofReorganizationdatedSeptember26,2002byandamongAIB,Allfirstand

M&T,M&TcombinedwithAllfirstthroughtheacquisitionofalloftheissuedandoutstandingAllfirst
stockinexchangefor26,700,000sharesofM&Tcommonstockand$886,107,000incashpaidtoAIB.
ThosesharesofcommonstockownedbyAIBrepresented22.4%oftheissuedandoutstandingsharesof

M&TcommonstockonSeptember30,2010.InanefforttoraiseitscapitalpositiontomeetnewIrish
government-mandatedcapitalrequirements,onNovember4,2010AIBsoldthose26,700,000shares.Asa
result,theprovisionsoftheAgreementandPlanofReorganizationbetweenM&TandAIB,which

includedseveralprovisionsrelatedtoAIB™srightsasasubstantialshareholderinthecorporategovernance
ofM&T,becameinoperative.
Subsidiaries
M&TBankisabankingcorporationthatisincorporatedunderthelawsoftheStateofNewYork.M&T
BankisamemberoftheFederalReserveSystemandtheFederalHomeLoanBankSystem,andits

depositsareinsuredbytheFederalDepositInsuranceCorporation(ﬁFDICﬂ)uptoapplicablelimits.
M&TacquiredalloftheissuedandoutstandingsharesofthecapitalstockofM&TBankinDecember
1969.ThestockofM&TBankrepresentsamajorassetofM&T.M&TBankoperatesunderacharter

grantedbytheStateofNewYorkin1892,andthecontinuityofitsbankingbusinessistracedtothe
organizationoftheManufacturersandTradersBankin1856.TheprincipalexecutiveofficesofM&T
BankarelocatedatOneM&TPlaza,Buffalo,NewYork14203.AsofDecember31,2010,M&TBankhad

738domesticbankingofficeslocatedthroughoutNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,Delaware,
NewJersey,Virginia,WestVirginia,andtheDistrictofColumbia,afull-servicecommercialbanking
officeinOntario,Canada,andanofficeinGeorgeTown,CaymanIslands.AsofDecember31,2010,

M&TBankhadconsolidatedtotalassetsof$67.1billion,depositsof$49.8billionandshareholder™s
equityof$8.9billion.ThedepositliabilitiesofM&TBankareinsuredbytheFDICthroughitsDeposit
InsuranceFund(ﬁDIFﬂ)ofwhich,atDecember31,2010,$49.3billionwereassessable.Asacommercial

bank,M&TBankoffersabroadrangeoffinancialservicestoadiversebaseofconsumers,businesses,
professionalclients,governmentalentitiesandfinancialinstitutionslocatedinitsmarkets.Lendingis
largelyfocusedonconsumersresidinginNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,northernVirginiaand

Washington,D.C.,andonsmallandmedium-sizebusinessesbasedinthoseareas,althoughloansare
originatedthroughlendingofficesinotherstates.Inaddition,theCompanyconductslendingactivities
invariousstatesthroughothersubsidiaries.M&TBankandcertainofitssubsidiariesalsooffer

commercialmortgageloanssecuredbyincomeproducingpropertiesorpropertiesusedbyborrowersina
4tradeorbusiness.Additionalfinancialservicesareprovidedthroughotheroperatingsubsidiariesofthe
Company.
M&TBank,N.A.,anationalbankingassociationandamemberoftheFederalReserveSystemand
theFDIC,commencedoperationsonOctober2,1995.ThedepositliabilitiesofM&TBank,N.A.are

insuredbytheFDICthroughtheDIF.ThemainofficeofM&TBank,N.A.islocatedat48MainStreet,

Oakfield,NewYork14125.M&TBank,N.A.offersselecteddepositandloanproductsonanationwide

basis,throughdirectmail,telephonemarketingtechniquesandtheInternet.AsofDecember31,2010,

M&TBank,N.A.hadtotalassetsof$797million,depositsof$472millionandshareholder™sequityof

$162million.
M&TLifeInsuranceCompany(ﬁM&TLifeInsuranceﬂ),awhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&T,was
incorporatedasanArizonabusinesscorporationinJanuary1984.M&TLifeInsuranceisacaptivecredit

reinsurerwhichreinsurescreditlifeandaccidentandhealthinsurancepurchasedbytheCompany™s

consumerloancustomers.AsofDecember31,2010,M&TLifeInsurancehadassetsof$33millionand

shareholder™sequityof$31million.M&TLifeInsurancerecordedrevenuesof$1millionduring2010.

HeadquartersofM&TLifeInsurancearelocatedat101NorthFirstAvenue,Phoenix,Arizona85003.
M&TInsuranceAgency,Inc.(ﬁM&TInsuranceAgencyﬂ),awhollyownedinsuranceagency
subsidiaryofM&TBank,wasincorporatedasaNewYorkcorporationinMarch1955.M&TInsurance

Agencyprovidesinsuranceagencyservicesprincipallytothecommercialmarket.AsofDecember31,

2010,M&TInsuranceAgencyhadassetsof$41millionandshareholder™sequityof$28million.M&T

InsuranceAgencyrecordedrevenuesof$24millionduring2010.TheheadquartersofM&TInsurance

Agencyarelocatedat285DelawareAvenue,Buffalo,NewYork14202.
M&TMortgageReinsuranceCompany,Inc.(ﬁM&TReinsuranceﬂ),awhollyownedsubsidiaryof
M&TBank,wasincorporatedasaVermontbusinesscorporationinJuly1999.M&TReinsuranceenters

intoreinsurancecontractswithinsurancecompanieswhoinsureagainsttheriskofamortgageborrower™s

paymentdefaultinconnectionwithM&TBank-relatedmortgageloans.M&TReinsurancereceivesa

shareofthepremiumforthosepoliciesinexchangeforacceptingaportionoftheinsurer™sriskof

borrowerdefault.AsofDecember31,2010,M&TReinsurancehadassetsof$38millionandshareholder™s

equityof$20million.M&TReinsurancerecordedapproximately$4millionofrevenueduring2010.

M&TReinsurance™sprincipalandregisteredofficeisat148CollegeStreet,Burlington,Vermont05401.
M&TRealEstateTrust(ﬁM&TRealEstateﬂ)isaMarylandRealEstateInvestmentTrustthatwas
formedthroughthemergeroftwoseparatesubsidiaries,buttracesitsorigintotheincorporationof

M&TRealEstate,Inc.inJuly1995.M&TRealEstateengagesincommercialrealestatelendingand

providesloanservicingtoM&TBank.AsofDecember31,2010,M&TRealEstatehadassetsof

$16.3billion,commonshareholder™sequityof$15.6billion,andpreferredshareholders™equity,consisting

of9%fixed-ratepreferredstock(parvalue$1,000),of$1million.Alloftheoutstandingcommonstock

and89%ofthepreferredstockofM&TRealEstateisownedbyM&TBank.Theremaining11%of

M&TRealEstate™soutstandingpreferredstockisownedbyofficersorformerofficersoftheCompany.

M&TRealEstaterecorded$774millionofrevenuein2010.TheheadquartersofM&TRealEstateare

locatedatM&TCenter,OneFountainPlaza,Buffalo,NewYork14203.
M&TRealtyCapitalCorporation(ﬁM&TRealtyCapitalﬂ),awhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&T
Bank,wasincorporatedasaMarylandcorporationinOctober1973.M&TRealtyCapitalengagesin

multifamilycommercialrealestatelendingandprovidesloanservicingtopurchasersoftheloansit

originates.AsofDecember31,2010M&TRealtyCapitalserviced$8.1billionofcommercialmortgage

loansfornon-affiliatesandhadassetsof$321millionandshareholder™sequityof$47million.M&T

RealtyCapitalrecordedrevenuesof$64millionin2010.TheheadquartersofM&TRealtyCapitalare

locatedat25SouthCharlesStreet,Baltimore,Maryland21202.
M&TSecurities,Inc.(ﬁM&TSecuritiesﬂ)isawhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&TBankthatwas
incorporatedasaNewYorkbusinesscorporationinNovember1985.M&TSecuritiesisregisteredasa

broker/dealerundertheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,asamended,andasaninvestmentadvisor

undertheInvestmentAdvisorsActof1940,asamended.M&TSecuritiesislicensedasalifeinsurance

agentineachstatewhereM&TBankoperatesbranchofficesandinanumberofotherstates.Itprovides

securitiesbrokerage,investmentadvisoryandinsuranceservices.AsofDecember31,2010,M&T

Securitieshadassetsof$43millionandshareholder™sequityof$32million.M&TSecuritiesrecorded
5$78millionofrevenueduring2010.TheheadquartersofM&TSecuritiesarelocatedatOneM&TPlaza,
Buffalo,NewYork14203.
MTBInvestmentAdvisors,Inc.(ﬁMTBInvestmentAdvisorsﬂ),awhollyownedsubsidiaryofM&T
Bank,wasincorporatedasaMarylandcorporationonJune30,1995.MTBInvestmentAdvisorsservesas
investmentadvisortotheMTBGroupofFunds,afamilyofproprietarymutualfunds,andinstitutional

clients.AsofDecember31,2010,MTBInvestmentAdvisorshadassetsof$17millionandshareholder™s
equityof$13million.MTBInvestmentAdvisorsrecordedrevenuesof$34millionin2010.The
headquartersofMTBInvestmentAdvisorsarelocatedat100EastPrattStreet,Baltimore,

Maryland21202.
TheRegistrantanditsbankingsubsidiarieshaveanumberofotherspecial-purposeorinactive
subsidiaries.Theseothersubsidiariesdidnotrepresent,individuallyandcollectively,asignificantportion

oftheCompany™sconsolidatedassets,netincomeandshareholders™equityatDecember31,2010.
SegmentInformation,PrincipalProducts/ServicesandForeignOperations
InformationabouttheRegistrant™sbusinesssegmentsisincludedinnote22ofNotestoFinancial
StatementsfiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancialStatementsandSupplementaryDataﬂandis
furtherdiscussedinPartII,Item7,ﬁManagement™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionand

ResultsofOperations.ﬂTheRegistrant™sreportablesegmentshavebeendeterminedbaseduponits
internalprofitabilityreportingsystem,whichisorganizedbystrategicbusinessunit.Certainstrategic
businessunitshavebeencombinedforsegmentinformationreportingpurposeswherethenatureofthe

productsandservices,thetypeofcustomerandthedistributionofthoseproductsandservicesare

similar.ThereportablesegmentsareBusinessBanking,CommercialBanking,CommercialRealEstate,
DiscretionaryPortfolio,ResidentialMortgageBankingandRetailBanking.TheCompany™sinternational
activitiesarediscussedinnote17ofNotestoFinancialStatementsfiledherewithinPartII,Item8,

ﬁFinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData.ﬂ
Theonlyactivitiesthat,asaclass,contributed10%ormoreofthesumofconsolidatedinterest
incomeandotherincomeinanyofthelastthreeyearswereinterestonloansandinvestmentsecurities

andfeesforprovidingdepositaccountservices.Theamountofincomefromsuchsourcesduringthose
yearsissetforthontheCompany™sConsolidatedStatementofIncomefiledherewithinPartII,Item8,
ﬁFinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData.ﬂ
SupervisionandRegulationoftheCompany
M&Tanditssubsidiariesaresubjecttotheextensiveregulatoryframeworkapplicabletobankholding

companiesandtheirsubsidiaries.RegulationoffinancialinstitutionssuchasM&Tanditssubsidiariesis
intendedprimarilyfortheprotectionofdepositors,theFDIC™sDIFandthebankingsystemasawhole,
andgenerallyisnotintendedfortheprotectionofstockholders,creditorsorotherinvestors.Described

belowarethematerialelementsofselectedlawsandregulationsapplicabletoM&Tanditssubsidiaries.

Thedescriptionsarenotintendedtobecompleteandarequalifiedintheirentiretybyreferencetothe
fulltextofthestatutesandregulationsdescribed.Changesinapplicablelaworregulation,andintheir
applicationbyregulatoryagencies,cannotbepredicted,buttheymayhaveamaterialeffectonthe

businessandresultsofM&Tanditssubsidiaries.
Overview
M&TisregisteredwiththeBoardofGovernorsoftheFederalReserveBoardSystem(theﬁFederal
ReserveBoardﬂ)asabankholdingcompanyundertheBankHoldingCompanyActof1956,asamended
(ﬁBHCAﬂ).Assuch,M&Tanditssubsidiariesaresubjecttothesupervision,examinationandreporting

requirementsoftheBHCAandtheregulationsoftheFederalReserveBoard.
Ingeneral,theBHCAlimitsthebusinessofbankholdingcompaniestobanking,managingor
controllingbanksandotheractivitiesthattheFederalReserveBoardhasdeterminedtobesoclosely

relatedtobankingastobeaproperincidentthereto.Inaddition,bankholdingcompaniesthatqualify
andelecttobefinancialholdingcompaniesmayengageinanyactivity,oracquireandretaintheshares
ofacompanyengagedinanyactivity,thatiseither(i)financialinnatureorincidentaltosuchfinancial

activity(asdeterminedbytheFederalReserveBoardinconsultationwiththeSecretaryoftheTreasury)
6or(ii)complementarytoafinancialactivityanddoesnotposeasubstantialrisktothesafetyand
soundnessofdepositoryinstitutionsorthefinancialsystemgenerally(assolelydeterminedbytheFederal

ReserveBoard),withoutpriorapprovaloftheFederalReserveBoard.Activitiesthatarefinancialin
natureincludesecuritiesunderwritinganddealing,insuranceunderwritingandmakingmerchant
bankinginvestments.
InordertoqualifyandregisterwiththeFederalReserveBoardasafinancialholdingcompany,a
bankholdingcompanymustdemonstratethateachofitsbanksubsidiariesisﬁwellcapitalized,ﬂﬁwell
managed,ﬂandhasatleastaﬁsatisfactoryﬂratingundertheCommunityReinvestmentActof1977

(ﬁCRAﬂ).BeginninginJuly2011,abankholdingcompany™seligibilitytoelectfinancialholdingcompany
statuswillalsodependupontheholdingcompanybeingwell-capitalizedandwell-managed.M&Tfileda
declarationtoelecttobecomeafinancialholdingcompanyonJanuary26,2011.
ThefinancialactivitiesauthorizedbytheBHCAmayalsobeengagedinbyaﬁfinancialsubsidiaryﬂ
ofanationalorstatebank,exceptforinsuranceorannuityunderwriting,insurancecompanyportfolio
investments,realestateinvestmentanddevelopment,andmerchantbanking,whichmustbeconducted

inafinancialholdingcompany.Inorderforthesefinancialactivitiestobeengagedinbyafinancial
subsidiaryofanationalorstatebank,federallawrequireseachoftheparentbank(anditssister-bank
affiliates)tobewellcapitalizedandwellmanaged;theaggregateconsolidatedassetsofallofthatbank™s

financialsubsidiariesmaynotexceedthelesserof45%ofitsconsolidatedtotalassetsor$50billion;the
bankmusthaveatleastasatisfactoryCRArating;and,ifthatbankisoneofthe100largestnational
banks,itmustmeetcertainfinancialratingorothercomparablerequirements.M&TBankandM&T

Bank,N.A.havenotelectedtoengageinfinancialactivitiesthroughfinancialsubsidiaries.Currentfederal
lawalsoestablishesasystemoffunctionalregulationunderwhichthefederalbankingagencieswill
regulatethebankingactivitiesoffinancialholdingcompaniesandbanks™financialsubsidiaries,the

U.S.SecuritiesandExchangeCommissionwillregulatetheirsecuritiesactivities,andstateinsurance
regulatorswillregulatetheirinsuranceactivities.Rulesdevelopedbythefederalfinancialinstitutions
regulatorsundertheselawsrequiredisclosureofprivacypoliciestoconsumersand,insomecircum-

stances,allowconsumerstopreventthedisclosureofcertainpersonalinformationtononaffiliatedthird

parties.
RecentDevelopments
TheDodd-FrankWallStreetReformandConsumerProtectionAct(theﬁDodd-FrankActﬂ),whichwas

enactedinJuly2010,significantlyrestructuresthefinancialregulatoryregimeintheUnitedStates,
includingthroughthecreationofanewresolutionauthority,mandatinghighercapitalandliquidity
requirements,requiringbankstopayincreasedfeestoregulatoryagencies,andthroughnumerousother

provisionsaimedatstrengtheningthesoundoperationofthefinancialservicessector.TheDodd-Frank
Actalsocreatesanewsystemicriskoversightbody,theFinancialStabilityOversightCouncil(ﬁFSOCﬂ).
TheFSOCwilloverseeandcoordinatetheeffortsoftheprimaryU.S.financialregulatoryagencies

(includingtheFederalReserveBoard,theFDICandtheSEC)inestablishingregulationstoaddress
financialstabilityconcerns.TheDodd-FrankActdirectstheFSOCtomakerecommendationstothe
FederalReserveBoardregardingsupervisoryrequirementsandprudentialstandardsapplicabletosystem-

icallyimportantfinancialinstitutionswhich,basedupontheproposedruleissuedonFebruary8,2011,is
expectedtoincludeM&T,includingcapital,leverage,liquidityandrisk-managementrequirements.The
Dodd-FrankActmandatesthattherequirementsapplicabletosystemicallyimportantfinancialinstitu-

tionsbemorestringentthanthoseapplicabletootherfinancialcompanies.
InadditiontotheframeworkforsystemicriskoversightimplementedthroughtheFSOC,the
Dodd-FrankActimposesheightenedprudentialrequirementsonbankholdingcompanieswithatleast

$50billionintotalconsolidatedassets,suchasM&T,andrequirestheFederalReserveBoardtoestablish
prudentialstandardsforsuchlargebankholdingcompaniesthataremorestringentthanthoseapplicable
tootherbankholdingcompanies,includingstandardsforrisk-basedcapitalrequirementsandleverage

limits,liquidity,risk-managementrequirements,resolutionplanandcreditexposurereporting,and
concentration.TheFederalReserveBoardhasdiscretionaryauthoritytoestablishadditionalprudential
standards,onitsownorattheFSOC™srecommendation,regardingcontingentcapital,enhancedpublic

disclosures,short-termdebtlimits,andotherwiseasitdeemsappropriate.TheDodd-FrankActalso
7requirestheFederalReserveBoardtoconductannualanalysesofsuchbankholdingcompaniesto
evaluatewhetherthecompanieshavesufficientcapitalonatotalconsolidatedbasisnecessarytoabsorb

lossesasaresultofadverseeconomicconditions.
TitleXoftheDodd-FrankActprovidesforthecreationoftheConsumerFinancialProtection
Bureau(theﬁCFPBﬂ),anewconsumerfinancialservicesregulator.TheCFPBisdirectedtoprevent

unfair,deceptiveandabusivepracticesandensurethatallconsumershaveaccesstomarketsforconsumer
financialproductsandservices,andthatsuchmarketsarefair,transparentandcompetitive.TheDodd-
FrankActgivestheCFPBauthoritytoenforceandissuerulesandregulationsimplementingexisting

consumerprotectionlawsandresponsibilityforallsuchexistingregulations.Depositoryinstitutionswith
assetsexceeding$10billion,suchasM&TBank,theiraffiliates,andotherﬁlargerparticipantsﬂinthe
marketsforconsumerfinancialservices(asdeterminedbytheCFPB)willbesubjecttodirectsupervision

bytheCFPB,includinganyapplicableexamination,enforcementandreportingrequirementstheCFPB
mayestablish.
Newlawsorregulationsorchangestoexistinglawsandregulations(includingchangesin
interpretationorenforcement)couldmateriallyadverselyaffectM&T™sfinancialconditionorresultsof
operations.Asdiscussedfurtherthroughoutthissection,manyaspectsoftheDodd-FrankActaresubject
tofurtherrulemakingandwilltakeeffectoverseveralyears,makingitdifficulttoanticipatetheoverall

financialimpactonM&Tanditssubsidiariesorthefinancialservicesindustrygenerally.Inadditionto
thediscussioninthissection,seeﬁRecentLegislativeDevelopmentsﬂinPartII,Item7,ﬁManagement™s
DiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperationsﬂforadiscussionofthe

potentialimpactlegislativeandregulatoryreformsmayhaveonourresultsofoperationsandfinancial
condition.
Dividends
TheRegistrantisalegalentityseparateanddistinctfromitsbankingandothersubsidiaries.Historically,
themajorityoftheRegistrant™srevenuehasbeenfromdividendspaidtotheRegistrantbyitssubsidiary
banks.M&TBankandM&TBank,N.A.aresubject,underoneormoreofthebankinglaws,to

restrictionsontheamountofdividenddeclarations.FuturedividendpaymentstotheRegistrantbyits
subsidiarybankswillbedependentonanumberoffactors,includingtheearningsandfinancial
conditionofeachsuchbank,andaresubjecttothelimitationsreferredtoinnote23ofNotesto

FinancialStatementsfiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData,ﬂ
andtootherstatutorypowersofbankregulatoryagencies.
Aninsureddepositoryinstitutionisprohibitedfrommakinganycapitaldistributiontoitsowner,
includinganydividend,if,aftermakingsuchdistribution,thedepositoryinstitutionfailstomeetthe
requiredminimumlevelforanyrelevantcapitalmeasure,includingtherisk-basedcapitaladequacyand
leveragestandardsdiscussedherein.
AsdescribedhereinundertheheadingﬁU.S.TreasuryCapitalPurchaseProgramﬂ,inconnection
withtheissuanceofSeriesAPreferredStocktotheU.S.DepartmentoftheTreasury(ﬁU.S.Treasuryﬂ),
M&Tisrestrictedfromincreasingitscommonstockdividend.
SupervisionandRegulationofM&TBank™sSubsidiaries
M&TBankhasanumberofsubsidiaries.Thesesubsidiariesaresubjecttothelawsandregulationsof
boththefederalgovernmentandthevariousstatesinwhichtheyconductbusiness.Forexample,M&T

SecuritiesisregulatedbytheSecuritiesandExchangeCommission,theFinancialIndustryRegulatory
Authorityandstatesecuritiesregulators.
CapitalRequirements
M&Tanditssubsidiarybanksarerequiredtocomplywiththeapplicablecapitaladequacystandards
establishedbytheFederalReserveBoard.Therearetwobasicmeasuresofcapitaladequacyforbank

holdingcompaniesthathavebeenpromulgatedbytheFederalReserveBoard:arisk-basedmeasureanda
leveragemeasure.
Risk-basedCapitalStandards.
Therisk-basedcapitalstandardsaredesignedtomakeregulatory
capitalrequirementsmoresensitivetodifferencesincreditandmarketriskprofilesamongbanksand
8financialholdingcompanies,toaccountforoff-balancesheetexposure,andtominimizedisincentivesfor
holdingliquidassets.Assetsandoff-balancesheetitemsareassignedtobroadriskcategories,eachwith

appropriateweights.Theresultingcapitalratiosrepresentcapitalasapercentageoftotalrisk-weighted
assetsandoff-balancesheetitems.
Theminimumguidelinefortheratiooftotalcapital(ﬁTotalCapitalﬂ)torisk-weightedassets
(includingcertainoff-balancesheetitems,suchasstandbylettersofcredit)is8.0%.Atleasthalfofthe

TotalCapitalmustbeﬁTier1Capital,ﬂwhichcurrentlyconsistsofqualifyingcommonequity,qualifying
noncumulativeperpetualpreferredstock(includingrelatedsurplus),seniorperpetualpreferredstock
issuedtotheU.S.DepartmentoftheTreasury(theﬁU.S.Treasuryﬂ)aspartoftheTroubledAssetRelief

ProgramCapitalPurchaseProgram(theﬁCPPﬂ),minorityinterestsrelatingtoqualifyingcommonor

noncumulativeperpetualpreferredstockissuedbyaconsolidatedU.S.depositoryinstitutionorforeign

banksubsidiary,andcertainﬁrestrictedcorecapitalelements,ﬂasdiscussedbelow,lessgoodwilland

certainotherintangibleassets.Currently,ﬁTier2Capitalﬂmayconsistof,amongotherthings,qualifying

subordinateddebt,mandatorilyconvertibledebtsecurities,preferredstockandtrustpreferredsecurities

notincludedinthedefinitionofTier1Capital,andalimitedamountoftheallowanceforloanlosses.
Non-cumulativeperpetualpreferredstock,trustpreferredsecuritiesandotherso-calledﬁrestrictedcore
capitalelementsﬂarecurrentlylimitedto25%ofTier1Capital.PursuanttotheDodd-FrankAct,trust

preferredsecuritieswillbephased-outofthedefinitionofTier1Capitalofbankholdingcompanies

havingconsolidatedassetsexceeding$500million,suchasM&T,overathree-yearperiodbeginningin

January2013.
Theminimumguidelinetobeconsideredwell-capitalizedforTier1CapitalandTotalCapitalis
6.0%and10.0%,respectively.AtDecember31,2010,theRegistrant™sconsolidatedTier1Capitalratio

was9.47%anditsTotalCapitalratiowas13.08%.TheelementscurrentlycomprisingTier1Capitaland

Tier2CapitalandtheminimumTier1CapitalandTotalCapitalratiosmayinthefuturebesubjectto

change,asdiscussedingreaterdetailbelow.
BaselIandIIStandards.
M&Tcurrentlycalculatesitsrisk-basedcapitalratiosunderguidelines
adoptedbytheFederalReserveBoardbasedonthe1988CapitalAccord(ﬁBaselIﬂ)oftheBasel

CommitteeonBankingSupervision(theﬁBaselCommitteeﬂ).In2004,theBaselCommitteepublisheda

newsetofrisk-basedcapitalstandards(ﬁBaselIIﬂ)inordertoupdateBaselI.BaselIIprovidestwo

approachesforsettingcapitalstandardsforcreditriskŠaninternalratings-basedapproachtailoredto
individualinstitutions™circumstancesandastandardizedapproachthatbasesrisk-weightingonexternal
creditassessmentstoamuchgreaterextentthanpermittedintheexistingrisk-basedcapitalguidelines.

BaselIIalsowouldsetcapitalrequirementsforoperationalriskandrefinetheexistingcapital

requirementsformarketriskexposures.Adefinitivefinalruleforimplementingtheadvancedapproaches

ofBaselIIintheUnitedStates,whichappliesonlytointernationallyactivebankingorganizations,or

ﬁcorebanksﬂ(definedasthosewithconsolidatedtotalassetsof$250billionormoreorconsolidatedon-

balancesheetforeignexposuresof$10billionormore)becameeffectiveonApril1,2008.Other

U.S.bankingorganizationsmayelecttoadopttherequirementsofthisrule(iftheymeetapplicable
qualificationrequirements),butarenotrequiredtocomply.Therulealsoallowsabankingorganization™s
primaryfederalsupervisortodeterminethatapplicationoftherulewouldnotbeappropriateinlightof

thebank™sassetsize,levelofcomplexity,riskprofileorscopeofoperations.NeitherM&TBanknor

M&TBank,N.A.iscurrentlyrequiredtocomplywithBaselII.
InJuly2008,theU.S.bankregulatoryagenciesissuedaproposedrulethatwouldprovidebanking
organizationsthatdonotusetheadvancedapproacheswiththeoptiontoimplementanewrisk-based

capitalframework.ThisframeworkwouldadoptthestandardizedapproachofBaselIIforcreditrisk,the

basicindicatorapproachofBaselIIforoperationalrisk,andrelateddisclosurerequirements.Whilethis

proposedrulegenerallyparallelstherelevantapproachesunderBaselII,itdivergeswhereUnitedStates

marketshaveuniquecharacteristicsandriskprofiles,mostnotablywithrespecttoriskweighting

residentialmortgageexposures.Theproposedrule,ifadopted,wouldreplacetheagencies™earlier
proposedamendmentstoexistingrisk-basedcapitalguidelinestomakethemmorerisksensitive
(formerlyreferredtoastheﬁBaselI-Aﬂapproach).
9LeverageRequirements.
NeitherBaselInorBaselIIincludesaleveragerequirementasan
internationalstandard,however,theFederalReserveBoardhasestablishedminimumleverageratio

guidelinestobeconsideredwell-capitalizedforbankholdingcompanies.Theseguidelinesprovidefora
minimumratioofTier1Capitaltoaveragetotalassets,lessgoodwillandcertainotherintangibleassets
(theﬁLeverageRatioﬂ),of3.0%forbankholdingcompaniesthatmeetcertainspecifiedcriteria,including

havingthehighestregulatoryrating.Allotherbankholdingcompaniesgenerallyarerequiredtomaintain
aLeverageRatioofatleast4%.M&T™sLeverageRatioatDecember31,2010was9.33%.
Theguidelinesalsoprovidethatbankholdingcompaniesexperiencinginternalgrowthormaking
acquisitionswillbeexpectedtomaintainstrongcapitalpositionssubstantiallyabovetheminimum
supervisorylevelswithoutsignificantrelianceonintangibleassets.Furthermore,theFederalReserveBoard
hasindicatedthatitwillconsideraﬁtangibleTier1Capitalleverageratioﬂ(deductingallintangibles)and

otherindicatorsofcapitalstrengthinevaluatingproposalsforexpansionornewactivities.
BaselIIIStandards.
InDecember2010,theBaselCommitteereleaseditsfinalframeworkfor
strengtheninginternationalcapitalandliquidityregulation,nowofficiallyidentifiedbytheBasel

CommitteeasﬁBaselIII.ﬂBaselIII,whenimplementedbytheU.S.bankregulatoryagenciesandfully
phased-in,willrequirebankholdingcompaniesandtheirbanksubsidiariestomaintainsubstantially
morecapital,withagreateremphasisoncommonequity.TheBaselIIIfinalcapitalframework,among

otherthings:
kintroducesasanewcapitalmeasureﬁCommonEquityTier1ﬂ
,orﬁCET1ﬂ,specifiesthatTier1
capitalconsistsofCET1andﬁAdditionalTier1capitalﬂinstrumentsmeetingspecifiedrequire-

ments,definesCET1narrowlybyrequiringthatmostdeductionsoradjustmentstoregulatory
capitalmeasuresbemadetoCET1andnottotheothercomponentsofcapital,andexpandsthe
scopeofthedeductionsoradjustmentsascomparedtoexistingregulations;
kwhenfullyphasedinonJanuary1,2019,requiresbankstomaintain:
kasanewlyadoptedinternationalstandard,aminimumratioofCET1torisk-weightedassetsof

atleast4.5%,plusa2.5%ﬁcapitalconservationbufferﬂ(whichisaddedtothe4.5%CET1ratio

asthatbufferisphasedin,effectivelyresultinginaminimumratioofCET1torisk-weighted

assetsofatleast7%);
kaminimumratioofTier1capitaltorisk-weightedassetsofatleast6.0%,plusthecapital

conservationbuffer(whichisaddedtothe6.0%Tier1capitalratioasthatbufferisphasedin,

effectivelyresultinginaminimumTier1capitalratioof8.5%uponfullimplementation);
kaminimumratioofTotal(thatis,Tier1plusTier2)capitaltorisk-weightedassetsofatleast

8.0%,plusthecapitalconservationbuffer(whichisaddedtothe8.0%totalcapitalratioasthat

bufferisphasedin,effectivelyresultinginaminimumtotalcapitalratioof10.5%uponfull
implementation);kasanewlyadoptedinternationalstandard,aminimumleverageratioof3%,calculatedasthe
ratioofTier1capitaltobalancesheetexposurespluscertainoff-balancesheetexposures(asthe
averageforeachquarterofthemonth-endratiosforthequarter);and
kprovidesforaﬁcountercyclicalcapitalbufferﬂ,generallytobeimposedwhennationalregulators
determinethatexcessaggregatecreditgrowthbecomesassociatedwithabuildupofsystemicrisk,
thatwouldbeaCET1add-ontothecapitalconservationbufferintherangeof0%to2.5%when
fullyimplemented(potentiallyresultingintotalbuffersofbetween2.5%and5%).
Thecapitalconservationbufferisdesignedtoabsorblossesduringperiodsofeconomicstress.
BankinginstitutionswitharatioofCET1torisk-weightedassetsabovetheminimumbutbelowthe
conservationbuffer(orbelowthecombinedcapitalconservationbufferandcountercyclicalcapitalbuffer,
whenthelatterisapplied)willfaceconstraintsondividends,equityrepurchasesandcompensationbased

ontheamountoftheshortfall.
TheimplementationoftheBaselIIIfinalframeworkwillcommenceJanuary1,2013.Onthat
date,bankinginstitutionswillberequiredtomeetthefollowingminimumcapitalratiosbeforethe

applicationofanybuffer:
k3.5%CET1torisk-weightedassets;
k4.5%Tier1capitaltorisk-weightedassets;and
k8.0%Totalcapitaltorisk-weightedassets.
10TheBaselIIIfinalframeworkprovidesforanumberofnewdeductionsfromandadjustmentsto
CET1.Theseinclude,forexample,therequirementthatmortgageservicingrights,deferredtaxassets

dependentuponfuturetaxableincomeandsignificantinvestmentsinnon-consolidatedfinancialentities
bedeductedfromCET1totheextentthatanyonesuchcategoryexceeds10%ofCET1orallsuch
categoriesintheaggregateexceed15%ofCET1.
ImplementationofthedeductionsandotheradjustmentstoCET1willbeginonJanuary1,2014
andwillbephased-inoverafive-yearperiod(20%peryear).Theimplementationofthecapital
conservationbufferwillbeginonJanuary1,2016at0.625%andbephasedinoverafour-yearperiod

(increasingbythatamountoneachsubsequentJanuary1,untilitreaches2.5%onJanuary1,2019).
TheU.S.bankingagencieshaveindicatedinformallythattheyexpecttoproposeregulations
implementingBaselIIIinmid-2011withfinaladoptionofimplementingregulationsinmid-2012.

NotwithstandingitsreleaseoftheBaselIIIframeworkasafinalframework,theBaselCommitteeis
consideringfurtheramendmentstoBaselIII,includingtheimpositionofadditionalcapitalsurchargeson
globallysystemicallyimportantfinancialinstitutions.InadditiontoBaselIII,theDodd-FrankAct

requiresorpermitstheFederalbankingagenciestoadoptregulationsaffectingbankinginstitutions™
capitalrequirementsinanumberofrespects,includingpotentiallymorestringentcapitalrequirements
forsystemicallyimportantfinancialinstitutions.Accordingly,theregulationsultimatelyapplicableto

M&TmaybesubstantiallydifferentfromtheBaselIIIfinalframeworkaspublishedinDecember2010.
LiquidityRatiosunderBaselIII.
Historically,regulationandmonitoringofbankandbank
holdingcompanyliquidityhasbeenaddressedasasupervisorymatter,bothintheU.S.andinternation-

ally,withoutrequiredformulaicmeasures.TheBaselIIIfinalframeworkrequiresbanksandbankholding
companiestomeasuretheirliquidityagainstspecificliquidityteststhat,althoughsimilarinsomerespects
toliquiditymeasureshistoricallyappliedbybanksandregulatorsformanagementandsupervisory

purposes,goingforwardwillberequiredbyregulation.Onetest,referredtoastheliquiditycoverage
ratio(ﬁLCRﬂ),isdesignedtoensurethatthebankingentitymaintainsanadequatelevelofunencumbered
high-qualityliquidassetsequaltotheentity™sexpectednetcashoutflowfora30-daytimehorizon(or,if

greater,25%ofitsexpectedtotalcashoutflow)underanacuteliquiditystressscenario.Theother,

referredtoasthenetstablefundingratio(ﬁNSFRﬂ),isdesignedtopromotemoremedium-andlong-
termfundingoftheassetsandactivitiesofbankingentitiesoveraone-yeartimehorizon.These
requirementswillincentbankingentitiestoincreasetheirholdingsofU.S.Treasurysecuritiesandother

sovereigndebtasacomponentofassetsandincreasetheuseoflong-termdebtasafundingsource.The
LCRwouldbeimplementedsubjecttoanobservationperiodbeginningin2011,butwouldnotbe
introducedasarequirementuntilJanuary1,2015,andtheNSFRwouldnotbeintroducedasa

requirementuntilJanuary1,2018.Thesenewstandardsaresubjecttofurtherrulemakingandtheirterms
maywellchangebeforeimplementation.
CapitalRequirementsofSubsidiaryDepositoryInstitutions.
M&TBankandM&TBank,N.A.are
subjecttosubstantiallysimilarcapitalrequirementsasthoseapplicabletoM&T.AsofDecember31,
2010,bothM&TBankandM&TBank,N.A.wereincompliancewithapplicableminimumcapital
requirements.NoneofM&T,M&TBankorM&TBank,N.A.hasbeenadvisedbyanyfederalbanking

agencyofanyspecificminimumcapitalratiorequirementapplicabletoitasofDecember31,2010.
Failuretomeetcapitalguidelinescouldsubjectabanktoavarietyofenforcementremedies,including
theterminationofdepositinsurancebytheFDIC,andtocertainrestrictionsonitsbusiness.See

ﬁRegulatoryRemediesundertheFDIAﬂbelow.
GiventhattheBaselIIIrulesaresubjecttochangeandthescopeandcontentofcapital
regulationsthatU.S.federalbankingagenciesmayadoptundertheDodd-FrankActisuncertain,M&T

cannotbecertainoftheimpactnewcapitalregulationswillhaveonitscapitalratiosorthoseofitsbank
subsidiaries.
SafetyandSoundnessStandards
GuidelinesadoptedbythefederalbankregulatoryagenciespursuanttotheFederalDepositInsurance
Act,asamended(theﬁFDIAﬂ),establishgeneralstandardsrelatingtointernalcontrolsandinformation
systems,internalauditsystems,loandocumentation,creditunderwriting,interestrateexposure,asset

growthandcompensation,feesandbenefits.Ingeneral,theseguidelinesrequire,amongotherthings,
11appropriatesystemsandpracticestoidentifyandmanagetheriskandexposuresspecifiedinthe
guidelines.Additionally,theagenciesadoptedregulationsthatauthorize,butdonotrequire,anagencyto

orderaninstitutionthathasbeengivennoticebyanagencythatitisnotsatisfyinganyofsuchsafety
andsoundnessstandardstosubmitacomplianceplan.If,afterbeingsonotified,aninstitutionfailsto
submitanacceptablecomplianceplanorfailsinanymaterialrespecttoimplementanacceptable

complianceplan,theagencymustissueanorderdirectingactiontocorrectthedeficiencyandmayissue
anorderdirectingotheractionsofthetypestowhichanundercapitalizedinstitutionissubjectunderthe
ﬁpromptcorrectiveactionﬂprovisionsoftheFDIA.SeeﬁRegulatoryRemediesundertheFDIAﬂbelow.If

aninstitutionfailstocomplywithsuchanorder,theagencymayseektoenforcesuchorderinjudicial
proceedingsandtoimposecivilmoneypenalties.
RegulatoryRemediesundertheFDIA
TheFDIAestablishesasystemofregulatoryremediestoresolvetheproblemsofundercapitalized

institutions.Thefederalbankingregulatorshaveestablishedfivecapitalcategories(ﬁwell-capitalized,ﬂ
ﬁadequatelycapitalized,ﬂﬁundercapitalized,ﬂﬁsignificantlyundercapitalizedﬂandﬁcriticallyundercapital-
izedﬂ)andmusttakecertainmandatorysupervisoryactions,andareauthorizedtotakeotherdiscretion-

aryactions,withrespecttoinstitutionswhichareundercapitalized,significantlyundercapitalizedor
criticallyundercapitalized.Theseverityofthesemandatoryanddiscretionarysupervisoryactionsdepend
uponthecapitalcategoryinwhichtheinstitutionisplaced.Generally,subjecttoanarrowexception,the

FDIArequiresthebankingregulatortoappointareceiverorconservatorforaninstitutionthatis
criticallyundercapitalized.Thefederalbankregulatoryagencieshavespecifiedbyregulationtherelevant
capitallevelsforeachcategory:
ﬁWell-CapitalizedﬂﬁAdequatelyCapitalizedﬂ
LeverageRatioof5%,
Tier1Capitalratioof6%,

TotalCapitalratioof10%,and

Notsubjecttoawrittenagreement,order,capital

directiveorregulatoryremedydirectiverequiring

aspecificcapitallevel.
LeverageRatioof4%,
Tier1Capitalratioof4%,and

TotalCapitalratioof8%.
ﬁUndercapitalizedﬂ
ﬁSignificantlyUndercapitalizedﬂ
LeverageRatiolessthan4%,
Tier1Capitalratiolessthan4%,or

TotalCapitalratiolessthan8%.
LeverageRatiolessthan3%,
Tier1Capitalratiolessthan3%,or

TotalCapitalratiolessthan6%.
ﬁCriticallyundercapitalizedﬂ
Tangibleequitytototalassetslessthan2%.
Forpurposesoftheseregulations,thetermﬁtangibleequityﬂincludescorecapitalelements
countedasTier1Capitalforpurposesoftherisk-basedcapitalstandardsplustheamountofoutstanding
cumulativeperpetualpreferredstock(includingrelatedsurplus),minusallintangibleassetswithcertain

exceptions.Aninstitutionthatisclassifiedaswell-capitalizedbasedonitscapitallevelsmaybeclassified
asadequatelycapitalized,andaninstitutionthatisadequatelycapitalizedorundercapitalizedbasedupon
itscapitallevelsmaybetreatedasthoughitwereundercapitalizedorsignificantlyundercapitalized,

respectively,iftheappropriatefederalbankingagency,afternoticeandopportunityforhearing,
determinesthatanunsafeorunsoundconditionoranunsafeorunsoundpracticewarrantssuch
treatment.
Aninstitutionthatiscategorizedasundercapitalized,significantlyundercapitalizedorcritically
undercapitalizedisrequiredtosubmitanacceptablecapitalrestorationplantoitsappropriatefederal
bankingregulator.UndertheFDIA,inorderforthecapitalrestorationplantobeacceptedbythe

appropriatefederalbankingagency,abankholdingcompanymustguaranteethatasubsidiarydepository
institutionwillcomplywithitscapitalrestorationplan,subjecttocertainlimitations.Thebankholding
companymustalsoprovideappropriateassurancesofperformance.Theobligationofacontrollingbank

holdingcompanyundertheFDIAtofundacapitalrestorationplanislimitedtothelesserof5.0%ofan
12undercapitalizedsubsidiary™sassetsortheamountrequiredtomeetregulatorycapitalrequirements.An
undercapitalizedinstitutionisalsogenerallyprohibitedfromincreasingitsaveragetotalassets,making

acquisitions,establishinganybranchesorengaginginanynewlineofbusiness,exceptinaccordancewith
anacceptedcapitalrestorationplanorwiththeapprovaloftheFDIC.Institutionsthataresignificantly
undercapitalizedorundercapitalizedandeitherfailtosubmitanacceptablecapitalrestorationplanor

failtoimplementanapprovedcapitalrestorationplanmaybesubjecttoanumberofrequirementsand
restrictions,includingorderstosellsufficientvotingstocktobecomeadequatelycapitalized,requirements
toreducetotalassetsandcessationofreceiptofdepositsfromcorrespondentbanks.Criticallyundercap-

italizeddepositoryinstitutionsfailingtosubmitorimplementanacceptablecapitalrestorationplanare
subjecttoappointmentofareceiverorconservator.
SupportofSubsidiaryBanks
UnderlongstandingFederalReserveBoardpolicywhichhasbeencodifiedbytheDodd-FrankAct,M&T
isexpectedtoactasasourceoffinancialstrengthto,andtocommitresourcestosupport,itssubsidiary

banks.ThissupportmayberequiredattimeswhenM&Tmaynotbeinclinedtoprovideit.Inaddition,
anycapitalloansbyabankholdingcompanytoasubsidiarybankaresubordinateinrightofpaymentto
depositsandtocertainotherindebtednessofsuchsubsidiarybank.Intheeventofabankholding

company™sbankruptcy,anycommitmentbythebankholdingcompanytoafederalbankregulatory
agencytomaintainthecapitalofasubsidiarybankwillbeassumedbythebankruptcytrusteeand
entitledtoapriorityofpayment.
Cross-GuaranteeProvisions
Eachinsureddepositoryinstitutionﬁcontrolledﬂ(asdefinedintheBHCA)bythesamebankholding
companycanbeheldliabletotheFDICforanylossincurred,orreasonablyexpectedtobeincurred,by

theFDICduetothedefaultofanyotherinsureddepositoryinstitutioncontrolledbythatholding
companyandforanyassistanceprovidedbytheFDICtoanyofthosebanksthatisindangerofdefault.
TheFDIC™sclaimunderthecross-guaranteeprovisionsissuperiortoclaimsofshareholdersofthe

insureddepositoryinstitutionoritsholdingcompanyandtomostclaimsarisingoutofobligationsor
liabilitiesowedtoaffiliatesoftheinstitution,butissubordinatetoclaimsofdepositors,securedcreditors
andholdersofsubordinateddebt(otherthanaffiliates)ofthecommonlycontrolledinsureddepository

institution.TheFDICmaydeclinetoenforcethecross-guaranteeprovisionsifitdeterminesthatawaiver
isinthebestinterestoftheDIF.
TransactionswithAffiliates
TherearevariouslegalrestrictionsontheextenttowhichM&Tanditsnon-banksubsidiariesmay
borroworotherwiseobtainfundingfromM&TBankandM&TBank,N.A.Ingeneral,Sections23Aand
23BoftheFederalReserveBoardActandFederalReserveBoardRegulationWrequirethatanyﬁcovered

transactionﬂbyM&TBankandM&TBank,N.A.(oranyoftheirrespectivesubsidiaries)withanaffiliate
mustbesecuredbydesignatedamountsofspecifiedcollateralandmustbelimitedto(a)inthecaseof
anysinglesuchaffiliate,theaggregateamountofcoveredtransactionsoftheinsureddepository

institutionanditssubsidiariesmaynotexceed10%ofthecapitalstockandsurplusofsuchinsured
depositoryinstitution,and(b)inthecaseofallaffiliates,theaggregateamountofcoveredtransactions
ofaninsureddepositoryinstitutionanditssubsidiariesmaynotexceed20%ofthecapitalstockand

surplusofsuchinsureddepositoryinstitution.TheDodd-FrankActsignificantlyexpandsthecoverage
andscopeofthelimitationsonaffiliatetransactionswithinabankingorganization.Forexample,
commencinginJuly2011,theDodd-FrankActwillrequirethatthe10%ofcapitallimitoncovered

transactionsbegintoapplytofinancialsubsidiaries.ﬁCoveredtransactionsﬂaredefinedbystatuteto
include,amongotherthings,aloanorextensionofcredit,aswellasapurchaseofsecuritiesissuedbyan
affiliate,apurchaseofassets(unlessotherwiseexemptedbytheFederalReserveBoard)fromtheaffiliate,

theacceptanceofsecuritiesissuedbytheaffiliateascollateralforaloan,andtheissuanceofaguarantee,
acceptanceorletterofcreditonbehalfofanaffiliate.Allcoveredtransactions,includingcertain
additionaltransactions(suchastransactionswithathirdpartyinwhichanaffiliatehasafinancial

interest),mustbeconductedonmarketterms.
13FDICInsuranceAssessments
DepositInsuranceAssessments.
M&TBankandM&TBank,N.A.paydepositinsurancepremiumstothe
FDICbasedonanassessmentrateestablishedbytheFDIC.FDICassessmentratesgenerallydependupon

acombinationofregulatoryratingsandfinancialratios.Regulatoryratingsreflecttheapplicablebank
regulatoryagency™sevaluationofthefinancialinstitution™scapital,assetquality,management,earnings,
liquidityandsensitivity(orﬁCAMELSﬂratings)torisk.Theassessmentrateforlargeinstitutionswith

long-termdebtissuerratings,suchasM&TBank,arecurrentlydeterminedusingacombinationofthe

institutionsweighted-averageregulatoryratings,itslong-termdebtissuerratingsandtheinstitution™s

financialratios,eachequallyweighted.Assessmentratesforinstitutionsthatareinthelowestrisk
categorycurrentlyvaryfromseventotwenty-fourbasispointsper$100ofinsureddeposits,andmaybe
increasedordecreasedbytheFDIConasemi-annualbasis.Suchbaseassessmentratesaresubjectto

adjustmentsbasedupontheinstitution™sratioof(i)long-termunsecureddebttoitsdomesticdeposits,

(ii)securedliabilitiestodomesticdepositsand(iii)brokereddepositstodomesticdeposits(ifgreater

than10%).
InFebruary2011,theFDICadoptedafinalrule(theﬁNewAssessmentRuleﬂ)thatchangesthe
depositinsuranceassessmentsystemforlargeinstitutions.TheNewAssessmentRulecreatesatwo

scorecardsystemforlargeinstitutions,oneformostlargeinstitutionsthathavemorethan$10billionin

assets,suchasM&TBank,andanotherforﬁhighlycomplexﬂinstitutionsthathaveover$50billionin

assetsandarefullyownedbyaparentwithover$500billioninassets.Eachscorecardwillhavea

performancescoreandaloss-severityscorethatwillbecombinedtoproduceatotalscore,whichwillbe
translatedintoaninitialassessmentrate.Incalculatingthesescores,theFDICwillcontinuetoutilize
CAMELSratingsandwillintroducecertainnewforward-lookingfinancialmeasurestoassessan

institution™sabilitytowithstandasset-relatedstressandfunding-relatedstress.TheNewAssessmentRule

alsoeliminatestheuseofriskcategoriesandlong-termdebtissuerratingsforcalculatingrisk-based

assessmentsforinstitutionshavingmorethan$10billioninassets.TheFDICwillcontinuetohavethe

abilityundertheNewAssessmentRuletomakediscretionaryadjustmentstothetotalscore,upordown,
baseduponsignificantriskfactorsthatarenotadequatelycapturedinthescorecard.Thetotalscorewill
thentranslatetoaninitialbaseassessmentrateonanon-linear,sharply-increasingscale.TheNew

AssessmentRulepreservestheadjustmentstoaninstitution™sbaseassessmentratesbasedonitslong-

termunsecureddebtandbrokereddeposits(ifgreaterthan10%)andcreatesanewadjustmentbasedon

theinstitution™sholdingsoflong-termunsecureddebtissuedbyadifferentinsureddepositoryinstitution.

TheNewAssessmentRuleeliminatestheadjustmenttoaninstitution™sbaseassessmentratebasedonits
securedliabilities.ThefinalrulewillbeeffectiveApril1,2011.
M&TBankandM&TBank,N.A.™sdepositinsuranceassessmentsarecurrentlybasedonthetotal
domesticdepositsheldbysuchinsureddepositoryinstitution.TheDodd-FrankActrequirestheFDICto

amenditsregulationstobaseinsuranceassessmentsontheaverageconsolidatedassetslesstheaverage

tangibleequityoftheinsureddepositoryinstitutionduringtheassessmentperiod.UndertheNew
AssessmentRule,whichimplementstheserequirementseffectiveApril1,2011,assessmentspaidbyM&T
BankandM&TBank,N.A.areexpectedtoincreasein2011.
OnNovember17,2009,theFDICimplementedafinalrulerequiringinsuredinstitutions,suchas
M&TBankandM&TBank,N.A.,toprepaytheirestimatedquarterlyrisk-basedassessmentsforthe

fourthquarterof2009,andforallof2010,2011and2012.Suchprepaidassessmentswerepaidon
December30,2009,alongwitheachinstitution™squarterlyrisk-baseddepositinsuranceassessmentfor
thethirdquarterof2009(assuming5%annualgrowthindepositsbetweenthethirdquarterof2009and

theendof2012andtakingintoaccount,for2011and2012,theannualizedthreebasispointincrease

discussedbelow).TheremainingamountofprepaidinsuranceassessmentsatDecember31,2010related

to2011and2012forM&TBankwas$178.5millionandforM&TBank,N.A.was$2.5million.
TheFDIAestablishesaminimumratioofdepositinsurancereservestoestimatedinsureddeposits,
thedesignatedreserveratio(theﬁDRRﬂ),of1.15%priortoSeptember2020and1.35%thereafter.On

December20,2010,theFDICissuedafinalrulesettingtheDRRat2%.BecausetheDRRfellbelow

1.15%asofJune30,2008,andwasexpectedtoremainbelow1.15%theFDICwasrequiredtoestablish

andimplementaRestorationPlanthatwouldrestorethereserveratiotoatleast1.15%withinfiveyears.

InOctober2008,theFDICadoptedsucharestorationplan(theﬁRestorationPlanﬂ).InFebruary2009,
14inlightoftheextraordinarychallengesfacingthebankingindustry,theFDICamendedtheRestoration
Plantoallowsevenyearsforthereserveratiotoreturnto1.15%.InMay2009,theFDICadoptedafinal

rulethatimposedafivebasispointspecialassessmentoneachinstitution™sassetsminusTier1Capital
(asofJune30,2009).SuchspecialassessmentwascollectedonSeptember30,2009.InOctober2009,the
FDICpassedafinalruleextendingthetermoftheRestorationPlantoeightyears.Suchfinalrulealso

includedaprovisionthatimplementsauniformthreebasispointincreaseinassessmentrates,effective
January1,2011,tohelpensurethatthereserveratioreturnstoatleast1.15%withintheeightyear
periodcalledforbytheRestorationPlan.InOctober2010,theFDICadoptedanewrestorationplanto

ensuretheDRRreaches1.35%bySeptember2020.Aspartoftherevisedplan,theFDICwillforegothe
uniformthree-basispointincreaseinassessmentratesscheduledtotakeplaceinJanuary2011.TheFDIC
will,atleastsemi-annually,updateitsincomeandlossprojectionsfortheDIFand,ifnecessary,propose

rulestofurtherincreaseassessmentrates.Inaddition,onJanuary12,2010,theFDICannouncedthatit
wouldseekpubliccommentonwhetherbankswithcompensationplansthatencourageriskybehavior
shouldbechargedhigherdepositassessmentratesthansuchbankswouldotherwisebecharged.Seealso

ﬁExecutiveandIncentiveCompensationﬂbelow.Itcannotpredictedwhether,asaresultofanadverse
changeineconomicconditionsorotherreasons,theFDICwillinthefuturefurtherincreasedeposit
insuranceassessmentlevels.
UndertheFDIA,insuranceofdepositsmaybeterminatedbytheFDICuponafindingthatthe
institutionhasengagedinunsafeandunsoundpractices,isinanunsafeorunsoundconditionto
continueoperations,orhasviolatedanyapplicablelaw,regulation,rule,orderorconditionimposedby

theFDIC.
FICOAssessments.
Inaddition,theDepositInsuranceFundsActof1996authorizedtheFinanc-
ingCorporation(ﬁFICOﬂ)toimposeassessmentsonDIFapplicabledepositsinordertoservicethe

interestonFICO™sbondobligationsfromdepositinsurancefundassessments.Theamountassessedon
individualinstitutionsbyFICOisinadditiontotheamount,ifany,paidfordepositinsuranceaccording
totheFDIC™srisk-relatedassessmentrateschedules.FICOassessmentratesmaybeadjustedquarterlyto

reflectachangeinassessmentbase.M&TBankrecognized$5millionofexpenserelatedtoitsFICO

assessmentsandM&TBank,N.A.recognized$57thousandofsuchexpensein2010.
Acquisitions
TheBHCArequireseverybankholdingcompanytoobtainthepriorapprovaloftheFederalReserve

Boardbefore:(1)itmayacquiredirectorindirectownershiporcontrolofanyvotingsharesofanybank
orsavingsandloanassociation,ifaftersuchacquisition,thebankholdingcompanywilldirectlyor
indirectlyownorcontrol5%ormoreofthevotingsharesoftheinstitution;(2)itoranyofits

subsidiaries,otherthanabank,mayacquireallorsubstantiallyalloftheassetsofanybankorsavings
andloanassociation;or(3)itmaymergeorconsolidatewithanyotherbankholdingcompany.Effective
July2011,financialholdingcompaniesandbankholdingcompanieswithconsolidatedassetsexceeding

$50billion,suchasM&T,must(i)obtainpriorapprovalfromtheFederalReserveBoardbeforeacquiring
certainnonbankfinancialcompanieswithassetsexceeding$10billionand(ii)providepriorwritten
noticetotheFederalReserveBoardbeforeacquiringdirectorindirectownershiporcontrolofanyvoting

sharesofanycompanyhavingconsolidatedassetsof$10billionormore.Bankholdingcompanies
seekingapprovaltocompleteanacquisitionmustbewell-capitalizedandwell-managedeffectiveJuly
2011.TheBHCAfurtherprovidesthattheFederalReserveBoardmaynotapproveanytransactionthat
wouldresultinamonopolyorwouldbeinfurtheranceofanycombinationorconspiracytomonopolize
orattempttomonopolizethebusinessofbankinginanysectionoftheUnitedStates,ortheeffectof

whichmaybesubstantiallytolessencompetitionortotendtocreateamonopolyinanysectionofthe
country,orthatinanyothermannerwouldbeinrestraintoftrade,unlesstheanticompetitiveeffectsof
theproposedtransactionareclearlyoutweighedbythepublicinterestinmeetingtheconvenienceand

needsofthecommunitytobeserved.TheFederalReserveBoardisalsorequiredtoconsiderthefinancial
andmanagerialresourcesandfutureprospectsofthebankholdingcompaniesandbanksconcernedand
theconvenienceandneedsofthecommunitytobeserved.Considerationoffinancialresourcesgenerally

focusesoncapitaladequacy,andconsiderationofconvenienceandneedsissuesincludestheparties™
15performanceundertheCRA,bothofwhicharediscussedbelow.Inaddition,theFederalReserveBoard
musttakeintoaccounttheinstitutions™effectivenessincombatingmoneylaundering.
FDICTemporaryLiquidityGuaranteeProgram
InOctober2008,theFDICannouncedtheTemporaryLiquidityGuaranteeProgram(ﬁTLGPﬂ),under
whichtheFDICwouldguaranteecertainseniorunsecureddebtofFDIC-insuredU.S.depository
institutionsandU.S.bankholdingcompaniesaswellasnon-interestbearingtransactionaccountdeposits

atFDIC-insuredU.S.depositoryinstitutions,unlesssuchinstitutionsoptedoutoftheprogram.M&T
participatedintheDebtGuaranteeProgramthroughOctober31,2009.Althoughtheguaranteeofnon-
interestbearingtransactionaccountdepositsundertheTLGPendedonJune30,2010,theDodd-Frank

Actextendedthisguaranteetoallinsuredinstitutions,regardlessofparticipationintheTLGP,until
January1,2013.
U.S.TreasuryCapitalPurchaseProgram
PursuanttotheCPP,onDecember23,2008,M&TissuedandsoldtotheU.S.Treasuryinaprivate
offering(i)$600millionofSeriesAPreferredStockand(ii)awarranttopurchase1,218,522sharesof

M&TCommonStockatanexercisepriceof$73.86pershare,subjecttocertainanti-dilutionandother
adjustments.M&Telectedtoparticipateinthecapitalpurchaseprogramatanamountequalto
approximately1%ofitsrisk-weightedassetsatthetime.InconnectionwithitsacquisitionofProvident

onMay23,2009,M&Tissued$152millionofSeriesCPreferredStockinexchangeforthesecurities
issuedbyProvidenttotheU.S.TreasuryonNovember14,2008,andassumedawarrantissuedby
ProvidenttotheU.S.Treasury,which,onaconvertedbasis,providesforthepurchaseof407,542shares

ofM&TCommonStockat$55.76pershare.
Thesecuritiespurchaseagreement,datedDecember23,2008,pursuanttowhichthesecurities
issuedtotheU.S.TreasuryundertheCPPweresold,limitsthepaymentofquarterlydividendson

M&T™scommonstockto$0.70persharewithoutpriorapprovaloftheU.S.Treasury,limitsM&T™s
abilitytorepurchasesharesofitscommonstock(withcertainexceptions,includingtherepurchaseof
ourcommonstocktooffsetsharedilutionfromequity-basedcompensationawards),grantstheholders

oftheSeriesAPreferredStock,theWarrantandthecommonstockofM&Ttobeissuedunderthe

warrantcertainregistrationrights,andsubjectsM&Ttocertainoftheexecutivecompensationlimitations
includedintheEmergencyEconomicStabilizationActof2008(ﬁEESAﬂ),asamendedbytheAmerican
RecoveryandReinvestmentActof2009(ﬁARRAﬂ),describedbelowunderﬁExecutiveandIncentive

Compensationﬂ.ThesecuritiespurchaseagreementbetweenProvidentandtheU.S.Treasury,towhich
M&Tsucceeded,hasthesamelimitationsandeffects.
DepositorPreference
Underfederallaw,depositorsandcertainclaimsforadministrativeexpensesandemployeecompensation

againstaninsureddepositoryinstitutionwouldbeaffordedapriorityoverothergeneralunsecured
claimsagainstsuchaninstitutionintheﬁliquidationorotherresolutionﬂofsuchaninstitutionbyany
receiver.Ifaninsureddepositoryinstitutionfails,insuredanduninsureddepositors,alongwiththe

FDIC,willhavepriorityinpaymentaheadofunsecured,non-depositcreditors,includingdepositors
whosedepositsarepayableonlyoutsideoftheUnitedStatesandtheparentbankholdingcompany,with
respecttoanyextensionsofcredittheyhavemadetosuchinsureddepositoryinstitution.
ExecutiveandIncentiveCompensation
ARRA,aneconomicstimuluspackagesignedintolawonFebruary17,2009,significantlyexpandedthe

restrictionsonexecutivecompensationthatwereincludedinSection111ofEESAandimposedvarious
corporategovernancestandardsonrecipientsofTARPfunds,includingundertheU.S.Treasury™scapital
purchaseprogram,untilsuchfundsarerepaid.OnJune10,2009,theU.S.TreasuryissuedtheTARP

InterimFinalRuletoclarifyandprovideadditionalguidancewithrespecttotherestrictionsonexecutive
compensationthatapplytoexecutivesandcertainotheremployeesofTARPrecipientsthatincludes:(i)a
prohibitiononpayingbonuses,retentionawardsandincentivecompensation,otherthanlong-term

restrictedstockorpursuanttocertainpreexistingemploymentcontracts,toitsSeniorExecutiveOfficers
16(ﬁSEOsﬂ)andnext20mosthighly-compensatedemployees;(ii)aprohibitiononthepaymentofﬁgolden
parachutepaymentsﬂtoitsSEOsandnextfivemosthighlycompensatedemployees;(iii)aprohibition

onpayingincentivecompensationforﬁunnecessaryandexcessiverisksﬂandearningsmanipulations;
(iv)arequirementtoclawbackanybonus,retentionaward,orincentivecompensationpaidtoaSEO
andanyofthenexttwentymosthighlycompensatedemployeesbasedonstatementsofearnings,

revenues,gains,orothercriterialaterfoundtobemateriallyinaccurate;(v)arequirementtoestablisha
policyonluxuryorexcessiveexpenditures,includingentertainmentorevents,officeandfacility
renovations,companyownedaircraftandothertransportationandsimilaractivitiesorevents;(vi)a

requirementtoprovideshareholderswithanon-bindingadvisoryﬁsayonpayﬂvoteonexecutive
compensation;(vii)aprohibitionondeductingmorethan$500,000inannualcompensationor
performancebasedcompensationfortheSEOsunderInternalRevenueCodeSection162(m);(viii)a

requirementthatthecompensationcommitteeoftheboardofdirectorsevaluateandreviewonasemi-
annualbasistherisksinvolvedinemployeecompensationplans;and(ix)arequirementthatthechief
executiveofficerandchieffinancialofficerprovidewrittencertificationsofcompliancewiththeforegoing

requirements.
GuidelinesadoptedbythefederalbankingagenciespursuanttotheFDIAprohibitexcessive
compensationasanunsafeandunsoundpracticeanddescribecompensationasexcessivewhenthe

amountspaidareunreasonableordisproportionatetotheservicesperformedbyanexecutiveofficer,
employee,directororprincipalstockholder.InJune2010,theFederalReserveBoardissuedcomprehen-
siveguidanceonincentivecompensationpolicies(theﬁIncentiveCompensationGuidanceﬂ)intendedto

ensurethattheincentivecompensationpoliciesofbankingorganizationsdonotunderminethesafety
andsoundnessofsuchorganizationsbyencouragingexcessiverisk-taking.TheIncentiveCompensation
Guidance,whichcoversallemployeesthathavetheabilitytomateriallyaffecttheriskprofileofan

organization,eitherindividuallyoraspartofagroup,isbaseduponthekeyprinciplesthatabanking
organization™sincentivecompensationarrangementsshould(i)provideincentivesthatdonotencourage
risk-takingbeyondtheorganization™sabilitytoeffectivelyidentifyandmanagerisks,(ii)becompatible

witheffectiveinternalcontrolsandriskmanagement,and(iii)besupportedbystrongcorporate

governance,includingactiveandeffectiveoversightbytheorganization™sboardofdirectors.Any
deficienciesincompensationpracticesthatareidentifiedmaybeincorporatedintotheorganization™s
supervisoryratings,whichcanaffectitsabilitytomakeacquisitionsorperformotheractions.The

IncentiveCompensationGuidanceprovidesthatenforcementactionsmaybetakenagainstabanking
organizationifitsincentivecompensationarrangementsorrelatedrisk-managementcontrolorgover-
nanceprocessesposearisktotheorganization™ssafetyandsoundnessandtheorganizationisnottaking

promptandeffectivemeasurestocorrectthedeficiencies.Inaddition,onJanuary12,2010,theFDIC
announcedthatitwouldseekpubliccommentonwhetherbankswithcompensationplansthat
encourageriskybehaviorshouldbechargedhigherdepositassessmentratesthansuchbankswould

otherwisebecharged.
ThescopeandcontentoftheU.S.bankingregulators™policiesonincentivecompensationare
continuingtodevelopandarelikelytocontinueevolvinginthenearfuture.Itcannotbedeterminedat

thistimewhethercompliancewithsuchpolicieswilladverselyaffecttheabilityofM&Tandits
subsidiariestohire,retainandmotivatetheirkeyemployees.
OrderlyLiquidationAuthority
TheDodd-FrankActcreatestheOrderlyLiquidationAuthority(ﬁOLAﬂ),aresolutionregimefor
systemicallyimportantnon-bankfinancialcompanies,includingbankholdingcompanies,underwhich
theFDICmaybeappointedreceivertoliquidatesuchacompanyifthecompanyisindangerofdefault

andpresentsasystemicrisktoU.S.financialstability.Thisdeterminationmustcomeaftersupermajority
recommendationsbytheFederalReserveBoardandtheFDICandconsultationbetweentheSecretaryof
theU.S.TreasuryandthePresident.ThisresolutionauthorityissimilartotheFDICresolutionmodelfor

depositoryinstitutions,withcertainmodificationstoreflectdifferencesbetweendepositoryinstitutions
andnon-financialcompaniesandtoreducedisparitiesbetweenthetreatmentofcreditors™claimsunder
theU.S.BankruptcyCodeandinanorderlyliquidationauthorityproceedingcomparedtothosethat

wouldexistundertheresolutionmodelforinsureddepositoryinstitutions.
17AnOrderlyLiquidationFundwillfundOLAliquidationproceedingsthroughborrowingsfrom
theTreasuryDepartmentandrisk-basedassessmentsmade,first,onentitiesthatreceivedmoreinthe

resolutionthantheywouldhavereceivedinliquidationtotheextentofsuchexcess,andsecond,if
necessary,onbankholdingcompanieswithtotalconsolidatedassetsof$50billionormore,suchas
M&T.Ifanorderlyliquidationistriggered,M&TcouldfaceassessmentsfortheOrderlyLiquidation

Fund.
FinancialPrivacy
Thefederalbankingregulatorshaveadoptedrulesthatlimittheabilityofbanksandotherfinancial
institutionstodisclosenon-publicinformationaboutconsumerstonon-affiliatedthirdparties.These
limitationsrequiredisclosureofprivacypoliciestoconsumersand,insomecircumstances,allow

consumerstopreventdisclosureofcertainpersonalinformationtoanon-affiliatedthirdparty.These
regulationsaffecthowconsumerinformationistransmittedthroughdiversifiedfinancialcompaniesand
conveyedtooutsidevendors.Inaddition,consumersmayalsopreventdisclosureofcertaininformation

amongaffiliatedcompaniesthatisassembledorusedtodetermineeligibilityforaproductorservice,
suchasthatshownonconsumercreditreportsandassetandincomeinformationfromapplications.
Consumersalsohavetheoptiontodirectbanksandotherfinancialinstitutionsnottoshareinformation

abouttransactionsandexperienceswithaffiliatedcompaniesforthepurposeofmarketingproductsor
services.
ConsumerProtectionLaws
Inconnectionwiththeirrespectivelendingandleasingactivities,M&TBank,certainofitssubsidiaries,
andM&TBank,N.A.areeachsubjecttoanumberoffederalandstatelawsdesignedtoprotect
borrowersandpromotelendingtovarioussectorsoftheeconomy.TheselawsincludetheEqualCredit

OpportunityAct,theFairCreditReportingAct,theFairandAccurateCreditTransactionsAct,theTruth
inLendingAct,theHomeMortgageDisclosureAct,andtheRealEstateSettlementProceduresAct,and
variousstatelawcounterparts.
Inaddition,federallawcurrentlycontainsextensivecustomerprivacyprotectionprovisions.Under
theseprovisions,afinancialinstitutionmustprovidetoitscustomers,attheinceptionofthecustomer
relationshipandannuallythereafter,theinstitution™spoliciesandproceduresregardingthehandlingof

customers™nonpublicpersonalfinancialinformation.Theseprovisionsalsoprovidethat,exceptfor
certainlimitedexceptions,afinancialinstitutionmaynotprovidesuchpersonalinformationto
unaffiliatedthirdpartiesunlesstheinstitutiondisclosestothecustomerthatsuchinformationmaybeso

providedandthecustomerisgiventheopportunitytooptoutofsuchdisclosure.Federallawmakesita
criminaloffense,exceptinlimitedcircumstances,toobtainorattempttoobtaincustomerinformationof
afinancialnaturebyfraudulentordeceptivemeans.
EffectiveJuly1,2010,anewfederalbankingruleundertheElectronicFundTransferActprohibits
financialinstitutionsfromchargingconsumersfeesforpayingoverdraftsonautomatedtellermachines
(ﬁATMﬂ)andone-timedebitcardtransactions,unlessaconsumerconsents,oroptsin,totheoverdraft
serviceforthosetypeoftransactions.Ifaconsumerdoesnotoptin,anyATMtransactionordebitthat

overdrawstheconsumer™saccountwillbedenied.Overdraftsonthepaymentofchecksandregular
electronicbillpaymentsarenotcoveredbythisnewrule.Beforeoptingin,theconsumermustbe
providedanoticethatexplainsthefinancialinstitution™soverdraftservices,includingthefeesassociated

withtheservice,andtheconsumer™schoices.Financialinstitutionsmustprovideconsumerswhodonot
optinwiththesameaccountterms,conditionsandfeatures(includingpricing)thattheyprovideto
consumerswhodooptin.
Sarbanes-OxleyActof2002
TheSarbanes-OxleyActof2002implementedabroadrangeofcorporategovernance,accountingand

reportingmeasuresforcompaniesthathavesecuritiesregisteredundertheExchangeAct,including
publicly-heldbankholdingcompaniessuchasM&T.Specifically,theSarbanes-OxleyActof2002andthe
variousregulationspromulgatedthereunder,established,amongotherthings:(i)requirementsforaudit

committees,includingindependence,expertise,andresponsibilities;(ii)responsibilitiesregarding
18financialstatementsfortheChiefExecutiveOfficerandChiefFinancialOfficerofthereportingcompany;
(iii)theforfeitureofbonusesorotherincentive-basedcompensationandprofitsfromthesaleofthe

reportingcompany™ssecuritiesbytheChiefExecutiveOfficerandChiefFinancialOfficerinthetwelve-
monthperiodfollowingtheinitialpublicationofanyfinancialstatementsthatlaterrequirerestatement;
(iv)thecreationofanindependentaccountingoversightboard;(v)standardsforauditorsandregulation

ofaudits,includingindependenceprovisionsthatrestrictnon-auditservicesthataccountantsmay
providetotheirauditclients;(vi)disclosureandreportingobligationsforthereportingcompanyand
theirdirectorsandexecutiveofficers,includingacceleratedreportingofstocktransactionsanda

prohibitionontradingduringpensionblackoutperiods;(vii)aprohibitiononpersonalloanstodirectors
andofficers,exceptcertainloansmadebyinsuredfinancialinstitutionsonnonpreferentialtermsandin
compliancewithotherbankregulatoryrequirements;and(viii)arangeofcivilandcriminalpenaltiesfor

fraudandotherviolationsofthesecuritieslaws.
CommunityReinvestmentAct
M&TBankandM&TBank,N.A.aresubjecttotheprovisionsoftheCRA.UnderthetermsoftheCRA,
eachappropriatefederalbankregulatoryagencyisrequired,inconnectionwithitsexaminationofa
bank,toassesssuchbank™srecordinassessingandmeetingthecreditneedsofthecommunitiesserved

bythatbank,includinglow-andmoderate-incomeneighborhoods.Duringtheseexaminations,the
regulatoryagencyratessuchbank™scompliancewiththeCRAasﬁOutstanding,ﬂﬁSatisfactory,ﬂﬁNeedsto
ImproveﬂorﬁSubstantialNoncompliance.ﬂTheregulatoryagency™sassessmentoftheinstitution™srecord

ispartoftheregulatoryagency™sconsiderationofapplicationstoacquire,mergeorconsolidatewith

anotherbankinginstitutionoritsholdingcompany,ortoopenorrelocateabranchoffice.M&TBank
hasaCRAratingofﬁOutstandingﬂandM&TBank,N.A.hasaCRAratingofﬁSatisfactory.ﬂInthecase
ofabankholdingcompanyapplyingforapprovaltoacquireabankorbankholdingcompany,the

FederalReserveBoardwillassesstherecordofeachsubsidiarybankoftheapplicantbankholding
companyinconsideringtheapplication,andsuchrecordsmaybethebasisfordenyingtheapplication.
TheBankingLawcontainsprovisionssimilartotheCRAwhichareapplicabletoNewYork-chartered

banks.M&TBankhasaCRAratingofﬁOutstandingﬂasdeterminedbytheNewYorkStateBanking
Department.
USAPatriotAct
TheUnitingandStrengtheningAmericabyProvidingAppropriateToolsRequiredtoInterceptand
ObstructTerrorismActof2001(theﬁUSAPatriotActﬂ)imposesobligationsonU.S.financialinstitu-

tions,includingbanksandbrokerdealersubsidiaries,toimplementandmaintainappropriatepolicies,
proceduresandcontrolswhicharereasonablydesignedtoprevent,detectandreportinstancesofmoney
launderingandthefinancingofterrorismandtoverifytheidentityoftheircustomers.Inaddition,

provisionsoftheUSAPatriotActrequirethefederalfinancialinstitutionregulatoryagenciestoconsider

theeffectivenessofafinancialinstitution™santi-moneylaunderingactivitieswhenreviewingbankmergers
andbankholdingcompanyacquisitions.Failureofafinancialinstitutiontomaintainandimplement
adequateprogramstocombatmoneylaunderingandterroristfinancingcouldhaveseriouslegaland

reputationalconsequencesfortheinstitution.TheRegistrantanditsimpactedsubsidiarieshaveapproved
policiesandproceduresthatarebelievedtobecompliantwiththeUSAPatriotAct.
OfficeofForeignAssetsControlRegulation
TheUnitedStateshasimposedeconomicsanctionsthataffecttransactionswithdesignatedforeign
countries,nationalsandothers.ThesearetypicallyknownastheﬁOFACﬂrulesbasedontheir

administrationbytheU.S.TreasuryDepartmentOfficeofForeignAssetsControl(ﬁOFACﬂ).TheOFAC-
administeredsanctionstargetingcountriestakemanydifferentforms.Generally,however,theycontain
oneormoreofthefollowingelements:(i)restrictionsontradewithorinvestmentinasanctioned

country,includingprohibitionsagainstdirectorindirectimportsfromandexportstoasanctioned
countryandprohibitionsonﬁU.S.personsﬂengaginginfinancialtransactionsrelatingtomaking
investmentsin,orprovidinginvestment-relatedadviceorassistanceto,asanctionedcountry;and(ii)a

blockingofassetsinwhichthegovernmentorspeciallydesignatednationalsofthesanctionedcountry
19haveaninterest,byprohibitingtransfersofpropertysubjecttoU.S.jurisdiction(includingpropertyin
thepossessionorcontrolofU.S.persons).Blockedassets(e.g.propertyandbankdeposits)cannotbe

paidout,withdrawn,setoffortransferredinanymannerwithoutalicensefromOFAC.Failureto
complywiththesesanctionscouldhaveseriouslegalandreputationalconsequences.
RegulationofInsurersandInsuranceBrokers
M&T™soperationsintheareasofinsurancebrokerageandreinsuranceofcreditlifeinsurancearesubject

toregulationandsupervisionbyvariousstateinsuranceregulatoryauthorities.Althoughthescopeof
regulationandformofsupervisionmayvaryfromstatetostate,insurancelawsgenerallygrantbroad
discretiontoregulatoryauthoritiesinadoptingregulationsandsupervisingregulatedactivities.This

supervisiongenerallyincludesthelicensingofinsurancebrokersandagentsandtheregulationofthe
handlingofcustomerfundsheldinafiduciarycapacity.CertainofM&T™sinsurancecompanysubsidiar-
iesaresubjecttoextensiveregulatorysupervisionandtoinsurancelawsandregulationsrequiring,among

otherthings,maintenanceofcapital,recordkeeping,reportingandexaminations.
GovernmentalPolicies
TheearningsoftheCompanyaresignificantlyaffectedbythemonetaryandfiscalpoliciesofgovernmen-
talauthorities,includingtheFederalReserveBoard.Amongtheinstrumentsofmonetarypolicyusedby
theFederalReserveBoardtoimplementtheseobjectivesareopen-marketoperationsinU.S.Government

securitiesandfederalfunds,changesinthediscountrateonmemberbankborrowingsandchangesin
reserverequirementsagainstmemberbankdeposits.Theseinstrumentsofmonetarypolicyareusedin
varyingcombinationstoinfluencetheoveralllevelofbankloans,investmentsanddeposits,andthe

interestrateschargedonloansandpaidfordeposits.TheFederalReserveBoardfrequentlyusesthese
instrumentsofmonetarypolicy,especiallyitsopen-marketoperationsandthediscountrate,toinfluence
thelevelofinterestratesandtoaffectthestrengthoftheeconomy,thelevelofinflationorthepriceof

thedollarinforeignexchangemarkets.ThemonetarypoliciesoftheFederalReserveBoardhavehada
significanteffectontheoperatingresultsofbankinginstitutionsinthepastandareexpectedtocontinue
todosointhefuture.Itisnotpossibletopredictthenatureoffuturechangesinmonetaryandfiscal

policies,ortheeffectwhichtheymayhaveontheCompany™sbusinessandearnings.
CompetitionTheCompanycompetesinofferingcommercialandpersonalfinancialserviceswithotherbanking
institutionsandwithfirmsinanumberofotherindustries,suchasthriftinstitutions,creditunions,
personalloancompanies,salesfinancecompanies,leasingcompanies,securitiesfirmsandinsurance

companies.Furthermore,diversifiedfinancialservicescompaniesareabletoofferacombinationofthese
servicestotheircustomersonanationwidebasis.TheCompany™soperationsaresignificantlyimpacted
bystateandfederalregulationsapplicabletothebankingindustry.Moreover,theprovisionsofthe

Gramm-Leach-BlileyActof1999,theInterstateBankingActandtheBankingLawhaveallowedfor
increasedcompetitionamongdiversifiedfinancialservicesproviders.
OtherLegislativeandRegulatoryInitiatives
ProposalsmaybeintroducedintheUnitedStatesCongressandstatelegislatures,aswellasbyregulatory
agencies.Suchinitiativesmayincludeproposalstoexpandorcontractthepowersofbankholding

companiesanddepositoryinstitutionsorproposalstosubstantiallychangethefinancialinstitution
regulatorysystem.Suchlegislationcouldchangebankingstatutesandtheoperatingenvironmentofthe
Registrantinsubstantialandunpredictableways.Ifenacted,suchlegislationcouldincreaseordecrease

thecostofdoingbusiness,limitorexpandpermissibleactivitiesoraffectthecompetitivebalanceamong
banks,savingsassociations,creditunions,andotherfinancialinstitutions.M&Tcannotpredictwhether
anysuchlegislationwillbeenacted,and,ifenacted,theeffectthatit,oranyimplementingregulations,

wouldhaveonthefinancialconditionorresultsofoperationsoftheRegistrant.Achangeinstatutes,
regulationsorregulatorypoliciesapplicabletoM&Toranyofitssubsidiariescouldhaveamaterialeffect
onthebusinessoftheRegistrant.SeethesectioncaptionedﬁRecentDevelopmentsﬂincludedelsewherein

thisitem.
20OtherInformation
ThroughalinkontheInvestorRelationssectionofM&T™swebsiteatwww.mtb.com,copiesofM&T™s

AnnualReportsonForm10-K,QuarterlyReportsonForm10-QandCurrentReportsonForm8-K,and
amendmentstothosereportsfiledorfurnishedpursuanttoSection13(a)or15(d)oftheExchangeAct,
aremadeavailable,freeofcharge,assoonasreasonablypracticableafterelectronicallyfilingsuch

materialwith,orfurnishingitto,theSecuritiesandExchangeCommission.Copiesofsuchreportsand
otherinformationarealsoavailableatnochargetoanypersonwhorequeststhemoratwww.sec.gov.
SuchrequestsmaybedirectedtoM&TBankCorporation,ShareholderRelationsDepartment,OneM&T

Plaza,13thFloor,Buffalo,NY14203-2399(Telephone:(716)842-5138).
CorporateGovernance
M&T™sCorporateGovernanceStandardsandthefollowingcorporategovernancedocumentsarealso
availableonM&T™swebsiteattheInvestorRelationslink:DisclosurePolicy;ExecutiveCommittee
Charter;Nomination,CompensationandGovernanceCommitteeCharter;AuditandRiskCommittee

Charter;FinancialReportingandDisclosureControlsandProceduresPolicy;CodeofEthicsforCEOand
SeniorFinancialOfficers;CodeofBusinessConductandEthics;andEmployeeComplaintProceduresfor
AccountingandAuditingMatters.Copiesofsuchgovernancedocumentsarealsoavailable,freeofcharge,

toanypersonwhorequeststhem.SuchrequestsmaybedirectedtoM&TBankCorporation,Shareholder
RelationsDepartment,OneM&TPlaza,13thFloor,Buffalo,NY14203-2399(Telephone:
(716)842-5138).
21StatisticalDisclosurePursuanttoGuide3
Seecross-referencesheetfordisclosuresincorporatedelsewhereinthisAnnualReportonForm10-K.

Additionalinformationisincludedinthefollowingtables.
Table1
SELECTEDCONSOLIDATEDYEAR-ENDBALANCES
20102009200820072006
(Inthousands)
Interest-bearingdepositsatbanks......$101,222$133,335$10,284$18,431$6,639
Federalfundssold
..................
25,00020,11921,34748,03819,458
Resellagreements
..................ŠŠ
90,000Š100,000
Tradingaccount
...................
523,834386,984617,821281,244136,752
Investmentsecurities
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies....4,177,7834,006,9683,909,4933,540,6412,381,584
Obligationsofstatesandpolitical
subdivisions
...................
251,544266,748135,585153,231130,207
Other.........................
2,721,2133,506,8933,874,1295,268,1264,739,807
Totalinvestmentsecurities.
.......
7,150,5407,780,6097,919,2078,961,9987,251,598
Loansandleases
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc....13,645,60013,790,73714,563,09113,387,02611,896,556
RealestateŠconstruction...
.......
4,332,6184,726,5704,568,3684,190,0683,453,981
RealestateŠmortgage
............
22,854,16021,747,53319,224,00319,468,44917,940,083
Consumer...
...................
11,483,56412,041,61711,004,27511,306,7199,916,334
Totalloansandleases
............
52,315,94252,306,45749,359,73748,352,26243,206,954
Unearneddiscount..
..............
(325,560)(369,771)(359,274)(330,700)(259,657)
Loansandleases,netofunearned
discount.
...................
51,990,38251,936,68649,000,46348,021,56242,947,297
Allowanceforcreditlosses...
.......
(902,941)(878,022)(787,904)(759,439)(649,948)
Loansandleases,net
............
51,087,44151,058,66448,212,55947,262,12342,297,349
Goodwill
.........................
3,524,6253,524,6253,192,1283,196,4332,908,849
Coredepositandotherintangible
assets.
.........................
125,917182,418183,496248,556250,233
Realestateandotherassetsowned......220,04994,60499,61740,17512,141
Totalassets
.......................
68,021,26368,880,39965,815,75764,875,63957,064,905
Noninterest-bearingdeposits...
.......
14,557,56813,794,6368,856,1148,131,6627,879,977
NOWaccounts.
...................
1,393,3491,396,4711,141,3081,190,161940,439
Savingsdeposits
...................
26,431,28123,676,79819,488,91815,419,35714,169,790
Timedeposits..
...................
5,817,1707,531,4959,046,93710,668,58111,490,629
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice......1,605,9161,050,4384,047,9865,856,4275,429,668
Totaldeposits
..................
49,805,28447,449,83842,581,26341,266,18839,910,503
Short-termborrowings
..............
947,4322,442,5823,009,7355,821,8973,094,214
Long-termborrowings.
..............
7,840,15110,240,01612,075,14910,317,9456,890,741
Totalliabilities..
...................
59,663,56861,127,49259,031,02658,390,38350,783,810
Shareholders™equity..
..............
8,357,6957,752,9076,784,7316,485,2566,281,095
Table2
SHAREHOLDERS,EMPLOYEESANDOFFICES
NumberatYear-End20102009200820072006
Shareholders.....
.............................
12,77313,20711,19711,61110,084
Employees.......
.............................
13,36514,22613,62013,86913,352
Offices
.......................................778832725760736
22Table3
CONSOLIDATEDEARNINGS
20102009200820072006
(Inthousands)
Interestincome
Loansandleases,includingfees.
...............
$2,394,082$2,326,748$2,825,587$3,155,967$2,927,411
Depositsatbanks
..........................8834109300372
Federalfundssold
..........................4263254857
1,670Resellagreements
...........................40466
1,81722,9783,927
Tradingaccount
............................615534
1,4697442,446
Investmentsecurities
Fullytaxable
............................
324,695389,268438,409352,628363,401
Exemptfromfederaltaxes...
...............
9,8698,4849,94611,33914,866
Totalinterestincome
......................
2,729,7952,725,1973,277,5913,544,8133,314,093
Interestexpense
NOWaccounts
............................850
1,1222,8944,6383,461
Savingsdeposits
............................
85,226112,550248,083250,313201,543
Timedeposits
.............................
100,241206,220330,389496,378551,514
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
...............
1,3682,39184,483207,990178,348
Short-termborrowings
.......................
3,0067,129142,627274,079227,850
Long-termborrowings
.......................
271,578340,037529,319461,178333,836
Totalinterestexpense
......................
462,269669,4491,337,7951,694,5761,496,552
Netinterestincome
........................
2,267,5262,055,7481,939,7961,850,2371,817,541
Provisionforcreditlosses
.....................
368,000604,000412,000192,00080,000
Netinterestincomeafterprovisionforcreditlosses..1,899,5261,451,7481,527,7961,658,2371,737,541
Otherincome
Mortgagebankingrevenues
...................
184,625207,561156,012111,893143,181
Servicechargesondepositaccounts
.............
478,133469,195430,532409,462380,950
Trustincome
..............................
122,613128,568156,149152,636140,781
Brokerageservicesincome
....................
49,66957,61164,18659,53360,295
Tradingaccountandforeignexchangegains
.......
27,28623,12517,63030,27124,761
Gainonbankinvestmentsecurities
..............
2,7701,16534,4711,2042,566
Totalother-than-temporaryimpairment(ﬁOTTIﬂ)
losses..................................
(115,947)(264,363)(182,222)(127,300)Š
PortionofOTTIlossesrecognizedinother
comprehensiveincome(beforetaxes)
..........
29,666126,066ŠŠŠ
NetOTTIlossesrecognizedinearnings
..........
(86,281)(138,297)(182,222)(127,300)Š
EquityinearningsofBayviewLendingGroupLLC..(25,768)(25,898)(37,453)8,935Š

Otherrevenuesfromoperations.
...............
355,053325,076299,674286,355293,318
Totalotherincome
........................
1,108,1001,048,106938,979932,9891,045,852
Otherexpense
Salariesandemployeebenefits..
...............
999,7091,001,873957,086908,315873,353
Equipmentandnetoccupancy..
...............
216,064211,391188,845169,050168,776
Printing,postageandsupplies..
...............
33,84738,21635,86035,76533,956
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangible
assets..................................
58,10364,25566,64666,48663,008
FDICassessments
..........................
79,32496,5196,6894,2034,505
Othercostsofoperations
.....................
527,790568,309471,870443,870408,153
Totalotherexpense
.......................
1,914,8371,980,5631,726,9961,627,6891,551,751
Incomebeforeincometaxes
...................
1,092,789519,291739,779963,5371,231,642
Incometaxes..............................
356,628139,400183,892309,278392,453
Netincome
...............................$
736,161$379,891$555,887$654,259$839,189
Dividendsdeclared
Common...............................$
335,502$326,617$308,501$281,900$249,817
Preferred.
..............................
40,22531,946ŠŠŠ
23Table4
COMMONSHAREHOLDERDATA
20102009200820072006
Pershare
Netincome
Basic.......
.............................$
5.72$2.90$5.04$6.05$7.55
Diluted......
.............................
5.692.895.015.957.37
Cashdividendsdeclared.
......................
2.802.802.802.602.25
Commonshareholders™equityatyear-end.....
.....
63.5459.3156.2958.9956.94
Tangiblecommonshareholders™equityatyear-end...33.2628.2725.9427.9828.57

Dividendpayoutratio...
......................
48.98%97.36%55.62%43.12%29.79%
Table5
CHANGESININTERESTINCOMEANDEXPENSE(a)
Total
ChangeVolumeRate
Total
ChangeVolumeRate
Resultingfrom
Changesin:
Resultingfrom
Changesin:
2010Comparedwith20092009Comparedwith2008
(Increase(decrease)inthousands)
Interestincome
Loansandleases,includingfees
........$
68,68716,04652,641$(498,433)118,677(617,110)
Depositsatbanks....
...............544212
(75)103(178)
Federalfundssoldandagreementsto
resellsecurities.....
...............317348
(31)(1,942)(729)(1,213)
Tradingaccount.....
...............1495693
(906)127(1,033)
Investmentsecurities
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies.....9,51430,242(20,728)1,0653,008(1,943)

Obligationsofstatesandpolitical
subdivisions.....
...............
1,9642,584(620)3,9005,179(1,279)
Other..
.........................
(73,893)(47,671)(26,222)(56,035)(35,242)(20,793)
Totalinterestincome
...............$
6,792$(552,426)
Interestexpense
Interest-bearingdeposits
NOWaccounts....
...............$
(272)119(391)$(1,772)220(1,992)
Savingsdeposits....
...............
(27,324)14,209(41,533)(135,533)52,405(187,938)
Timedeposits.....
...............
(105,979)(44,066)(61,913)(124,169)(25,770)(98,399)
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice.....(1,023)(1,023)Š(82,092)(31,707)(50,385)
Short-termborrowings
...............
(4,123)(2,151)(1,972)(135,498)(49,651)(85,847)
Long-termborrowings
...............
(68,459)(56,729)(11,730)(189,282)(22,502)(166,780)
Totalinterestexpense......
........$
(207,180)$(668,346)
(a)Interestincomedataareonataxable-equivalentbasis.Theapportionmentofchangesresultingfromthecom-
binedeffectofbothvolumeandratewasbasedontheseparatelydeterminedvolumeandratechanges.
Item1A.
RiskFactors.
M&Tanditssubsidiariescouldbeadverselyimpactedbyvariousrisksanduncertaintieswhichare
difficulttopredict.Asafinancialinstitution,theCompanyhassignificantexposuretomarketrisk,
includinginterest-raterisk,liquidityriskandcreditrisk,amongothers.Adverseexperiencewiththeseor

otherriskscouldhaveamaterialimpactontheCompany™sfinancialconditionandresultsofoperations,
24aswellasonthevalueoftheCompany™sfinancialinstrumentsingeneral,andM&T™scommonstock,in
particular.
InterestRateRiskŠTheCompanyisexposedtointerestrateriskinitscorebankingactivitiesof
lendinganddeposit-takingsinceassetsandliabilitiesrepriceatdifferenttimesandbydifferentamounts

asinterestrateschange.Asaresult,netinterestincome,whichrepresentsthelargestrevenuesourcefor

theCompany,issubjecttotheeffectsofchanginginterestrates.TheCompanycloselymonitorsthe
sensitivityofnetinterestincometochangesininterestratesandattemptstolimitthevariabilityofnet
interestincomeasinterestrateschange.TheCompanymakesuseofbothon-andoff-balancesheet

financialinstrumentstomitigateexposuretointerestraterisk.Possibleactionstomitigatesuchrisk

include,butarenotlimitedto,changesinthepricingofloananddepositproducts,modifyingthe

compositionofearningassetsandinterest-bearingliabilities,andaddingto,modifyingorterminating

interestrateswapagreementsorotherfinancialinstrumentsusedforinterestrateriskmanagement
purposes.LiquidityRiskŠLiquidityreferstotheCompany™sabilitytoensurethatsufficientcashflowand
liquidassetsareavailabletosatisfycurrentandfuturefinancialobligations,includingdemandsforloans
anddepositwithdrawals,fundingoperatingcosts,andforothercorporatepurposes.Liquidityriskarises
wheneverthematuritiesoffinancialinstrumentsincludedinassetsandliabilitiesdiffer.TheCompany

obtainsfundingthroughdepositsandvariousshort-termandlong-termwholesaleborrowings,including

federalfundspurchasedandsecuritiessoldunderagreementstorepurchase,brokeredcertificatesof

deposit,CaymanIslandsbranchdepositsandborrowingsfromtheFederalHomeLoanBankofNew

Yorkandothers.ShouldtheCompanyexperienceasubstantialdeteriorationinitsfinancialconditionor

itsdebtratings,orshouldtheavailabilityoffundingbecomerestrictedduetodisruptioninthefinancial
markets,theCompany™sabilitytoobtainfundingfromtheseorothersourcescouldbenegatively
impacted.TheCompanyattemptstoquantifysuchcredit-eventriskbymodelingscenariosthatestimate

theliquidityimpactresultingfromashort-termratingsdowngradeovervariousgradinglevels.The

Companyestimatessuchimpactbyattemptingtomeasuretheeffectonavailableunsecuredlinesof

credit,availablecapacityfromsecuredborrowingsourcesandsecuritizableassets.Tomitigatesuchrisk,

theCompanymaintainsavailablelinesofcreditwiththeFederalReserveBankofNewYorkandthe
FederalHomeLoanBankofNewYorkthataresecuredbyloansandinvestmentsecurities.Onan
ongoingbasis,managementcloselymonitorstheCompany™sliquiditypositionforcompliancewith

internalpoliciesandbelievesthatavailablesourcesofliquidityareadequatetomeetfundingneedsinthe

normalcourseofbusiness.
CreditRiskŠFactorsthatinfluencetheCompany™screditlossexperienceincludeoveralleco-
nomicconditionsaffectingbusinessesandconsumers,ingeneral,and,duetothesizeoftheCompany™s

realestateloanportfolioandmortgage-relatedinvestmentsecuritiesportfolio,realestatevaluations,in

particular.OtherfactorsthatcaninfluencetheCompany™screditlossexperience,inadditiontogeneral

economicconditionsandborrowers™specificabilitiestorepayloans,include:(i)theimpactofdeclining

realestatevaluesintheCompany™sportfolioofloanstoresidentialrealestatebuildersanddevelopers;
(ii)therepaymentperformanceassociatedwiththeCompany™sportfolioofalternativeresidential
mortgageloansandresidentialandothermortgageloanssupportingmortgage-relatedsecurities;(iii)the

concentrationsofcommercialrealestateloansintheCompany™sloanportfolio;(iv)theamountof

commercialandindustrialloanstobusinessesinareasofNewYorkStateoutsideoftheNewYorkCity

metropolitanareaandincentralPennsylvaniathathavehistoricallyexperiencedlesseconomicgrowth

andvitalitythanthevastmajorityofotherregionsofthecountry;and(v)thesizeoftheCompany™s
portfolioofloanstoindividualconsumers,whichhistoricallyhaveexperiencedhighernetcharge-offsas
apercentageofloansoutstandingthanmanyotherloantypes.Considerableconcernsexistaboutthe

economicrecoveryinbothnationalandinternationalmarkets;thelevelandvolatilityofenergyprices;a

weakenedhousingmarket;thetroubledstateoffinancialandcreditmarkets;FederalReservepositioning

ofmonetarypolicy;highlevelsofunemployment;theimpactofeconomicconditionsonbusinesses™

operationsandabilitiestorepayloansinlightofcontinuedstagnantpopulationgrowthintheupstate

NewYorkandcentralPennsylvaniaregions;andcontinueduncertaintyaboutpossibleresponsestostate
andlocalgovernmentbudgetdeficits.
25NumerousfactorscanaffecttheCompany™screditlossexperience.Tohelpmanagecreditrisk,the
Companymaintainsadetailedcreditpolicyandutilizesvariouscommitteesthatincludemembersof

seniormanagementtoapprovesignificantextensionsofcredit.TheCompanyalsomaintainsacredit
reviewdepartmentthatregularlyreviewstheCompany™sloanandleaseportfoliostoensurecompliance
withestablishedcreditpolicy.TheCompanyutilizesanextensiveloangradingsystemwhichisappliedto

allcommercialandcommercialrealestateloans.Onaquarterlybasis,theCompany™sloanreview
departmentreviewscommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloansthatareclassifiedasSpecial
Mentionorworse.Meetingsareheldwithloanofficersandtheirmanagers,workoutspecialistsand

SeniorManagementtodiscusseachoftherelationships.Borrower-specificinformationisreviewed,
includingoperatingresults,futurecashflows,recentdevelopmentsandtheborrower™soutlook,andother
pertinentdata.Thetimingandextentofpotentiallosses,consideringcollateralvaluationandother

factors,andtheCompany™spotentialcoursesofactionarereviewed.TheCompanymaintainsan
allowanceforcreditlossesthatinmanagement™sjudgmentisadequatetoabsorblossesinherentinthe
loanandleaseportfolio.Inaddition,theCompanyregularlyreviewsitsinvestmentsecuritiesfordeclines

invaluebelowamortizedcostthatmightbecharacterizedasﬁotherthantemporary.ﬂAnydeclinesin
valuebelowamortizedcostthataredeemedtobeﬁotherthantemporaryﬂarechargedtoearnings.
EconomicRiskŠTheU.S.economyexperiencedweakeconomicconditionsduringthelastthree
years.Thoseconditionscontributedtoriskasfollows:
kThesignificantdownturnintheresidentialrealestatemarketthatbeganin2007continued

throughthe2010year-end.Theimpactofthatdownturnhasresultedindepressedhomeprices,

higherthanhistoricallevelsofforeclosuresandloancharge-offs,andlowermarketpriceson
investmentsecuritiesbackedbyresidentialrealestate.Thosefactorshavenegativelyimpacted
M&T™sresultsofoperationsandcouldcontinuetodoso.
kLowerdemandfortheCompany™sproductsandservicesandlowerrevenuesandearningscould
resultfromongoingweakeconomicconditions.Thoseconditionscouldalsoresultinhigherloan
charge-offsduetotheinabilityofborrowerstorepayloans.
kLowerfeeincomefromtheCompany™sbrokerageandtrustbusinessescouldresultfromsignificant

declinesinstockmarketprices.
kLowerearningscouldresultfromother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesrelatedtothe

Company™sinvestmentsecuritiesportfolio.
kHigherFDICassessmentscouldbeimposedontheCompanyduetobankfailuresthathave
causedtheFDICDepositInsuranceFundtofallbelowminimumrequiredlevels.
kThereisnoassurancethattheEmergencyEconomicStabilizationActof2008ortheAmerican
RecoveryandReinvestmentActof2009willimprovetheconditionofthefinancialmarkets.
SupervisionandRegulationŠTheCompanyissubjecttoextensivestateandfederallawsand
regulationsgoverningthebankingindustry,inparticular,andpubliccompanies,ingeneral,including
lawsrelatedtocorporatetaxation.ManyofthoselawsandregulationsaredescribedinPartI,Item1

ﬁBusiness.ﬂChangesinthoseorotherlawsandregulations,orthedegreeoftheCompany™scompliance
withthoselawsandregulationsasjudgedbyanyofseveralregulators,includingtaxauthorities,that
overseetheCompany,couldhaveasignificanteffectontheCompany™soperationsanditsfinancial

results.Forexample,theDodd-FrankActrepresentsacomprehensiveoverhaulofthefinancialservices
industrywithintheUnitedStatesandrequiresfederalagenciestoimplementmanynewrules.Itis
expectedthatataminimumthosenewruleswillresultinincreasedcosts,decreasedrevenuesandmore

stringentcapitalandliquidityrequirements.
DetaileddiscussionsofthespecificrisksoutlinedaboveandotherrisksfacingtheCompanyare
includedwithinthisAnnualReportonForm10-KinPartI,Item1ﬁBusiness,ﬂandPartII,Item7

ﬁManagement™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations.ﬂFurthermore,
inPartII,Item7undertheheadingﬁForward-LookingStatementsﬂisincludedadescriptionofcertain
risks,uncertaintiesandassumptionsidentifiedbymanagementthataredifficulttopredictandthatcould

materiallyaffecttheCompany™sfinancialconditionandresultsofoperations,aswellasthevalueofthe
Company™sfinancialinstrumentsingeneral,andM&Tcommonstock,inparticular.
Inaddition,themarketpriceofM&Tcommonstockmayfluctuatesignificantlyinresponsetoa
numberofotherfactors,includingchangesinsecuritiesanalysts™estimatesoffinancialperformance,
26volatilityofstockmarketpricesandvolumes,rumorsorerroneousinformation,changesinmarket
valuationsofsimilarcompaniesandchangesinaccountingpoliciesorproceduresasmayberequiredby

theFinancialAccountingStandardsBoardorotherregulatoryagencies.
Item1B.
UnresolvedStaffComments.
None.
Item2.
Properties.
BothM&TandM&TBankmaintaintheirexecutiveofficesatOneM&TPlazainBuffalo,NewYork.This
twenty-onestoryheadquartersbuilding,containingapproximately300,000rentablesquarefeetofspace,
isownedinfeebyM&TBankandwascompletedin1967.M&T,M&TBankandtheirsubsidiaries
occupyapproximately98%ofthebuildingandtheremainderisleasedtonon-affiliatedtenants.At

December31,2010,thecostofthisproperty(includingimprovementssubsequenttotheinitial
construction),netofaccumulateddepreciation,was$8.6million.
InSeptember1992,M&TBankacquiredanadditionalfacilityinBuffalo,NewYorkwith
approximately395,000rentablesquarefeetofspace.Approximately89%ofthisfacility,knownasM&T
Center,isoccupiedbyM&TBankanditssubsidiaries,withtheremainderleasedtonon-affiliated
tenants.AtDecember31,2010,thecostofthisbuilding(includingimprovementssubsequentto

acquisition),netofaccumulateddepreciation,was$10.4million.
M&TBankalsoownsandoccupiestwoseparatefacilitiesintheBuffaloareawhichsupport
certainback-officeandoperationsfunctionsoftheCompany.Thetotalsquarefootageofthesefacilities

approximates225,000squarefeetandtheircombinedcost(includingimprovementssubsequentto
acquisition),netofaccumulateddepreciation,was$20.4millionatDecember31,2010.
M&TBankalsoownsafacilityinSyracuse,NewYorkwithapproximately160,000rentablesquare
feetofspace.Approximately65%ofthisfacilityisoccupiedbyM&TBank.AtDecember31,2010,the
costofthisbuilding(includingimprovementssubsequenttoacquisition),netofaccumulateddeprecia-
tion,was$5.7million.
M&TBankalsoownsfacilitiesinHarrisburg,PennsylvaniaandMillsboro,Delawarewithapprox-
imately215,000and325,000rentablesquarefeetofspace,respectively.M&TBankoccupiesapproxi-
mately35%and85%oftheserespectivefacilities.AtDecember31,2010,thecostofthesebuildings
(includingimprovementssubsequenttoacquisition),netofaccumulateddepreciation,was$11.9million

and$7.2million,respectively.
NootherpropertiesownedbyM&TBankhavemorethan100,000squarefeetofspace.Thecost,
netofaccumulateddepreciationandamortization,oftheCompany™spremisesandequipmentisdetailed

innote6ofNotestoFinancialStatementsfiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancialStatementsand
SupplementaryData.ﬂOfthe739domesticbankingofficesoftheRegistrant™ssubsidiarybanksat
December31,2010,286areownedinfeeand453areleased.
Item3.
LegalProceedings.
M&Tanditssubsidiariesaresubjectinthenormalcourseofbusinesstovariouspendingandthreatened
legalproceedingsinwhichclaimsformonetarydamagesareasserted.Management,afterconsultation
withlegalcounsel,doesnotanticipatethattheaggregateultimateliabilityarisingoutoflitigation

pendingagainstM&ToritssubsidiarieswillbematerialtoM&T™sconsolidatedfinancialposition,butat
thepresenttimeisnotinapositiontodeterminewhethersuchlitigationwillhaveamaterialadverse
effectonM&T™sconsolidatedresultsofoperationsinanyfuturereportingperiod.
Item4.
(RemovedandReserved)
ExecutiveOfficersoftheRegistrant
InformationconcerningtheRegistrant™sexecutiveofficersispresentedbelowasofFebruary18,2011.The
yeartheofficerwasfirstappointedtotheindicatedpositionwiththeRegistrantoritssubsidiariesis

shownparenthetically.Inthecaseofeachcorporationnotedbelow,officers™termsrununtilthefirst
27meetingoftheboardofdirectorsaftersuchcorporation™sannualmeeting,whichinthecaseofthe
RegistranttakesplaceimmediatelyfollowingtheAnnualMeetingofShareholders,anduntiltheir
successorsareelectedandqualified.
RobertG.Wilmers,age76,ischiefexecutiveofficer(2007),chairmanoftheboard(2000)anda
director(1982)oftheRegistrant.FromApril1998untilJuly2000,heservedaspresidentandchief

executiveofficeroftheRegistrantandfromJuly2000untilJune2005heservedaschairman,president
(1988)andchiefexecutiveofficer(1983)oftheRegistrant.Heischiefexecutiveofficer(2007),chairman
oftheboard(2005)andadirector(1982)ofM&TBank,andpreviouslyservedaschairmanoftheboard

ofM&TBankfromMarch1983untilJuly2003andaspresidentofM&TBankfromMarch1984until
June1996.
MichaelP.Pinto,age55,isavicechairman(2007)andadirector(2003)oftheRegistrant.
Previously,hewasanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(1997).Heisavicechairmananda
director(2003)ofM&TBankandisthechairmanandchiefexecutiveofficerofM&TBank™sMid-
AtlanticDivision(2005).PriortoApril2005,Mr.PintowasthechieffinancialofficeroftheRegistrant
(1997)andM&TBank(1996),andheoversawtheCompany™sFinanceDivision,TechnologyandBanking

OperationsDivision,CorporateServicesGroup,TreasuryDivisionandGeneralCounsel™sOffice.Heisan
executivevicepresident(1996)andadirector(1998)ofM&TBank,N.A.Mr.Pintoischairmanofthe
boardandadirectorofMTBInvestmentAdvisors(2006).
MarkJ.Czarnecki,age55,ispresidentandadirector(2007)oftheRegistrantandpresidentanda
director(2007)ofM&TBank.Previously,hewasanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(1999)and

M&TBank(1997)andwasresponsiblefortheM&TInvestmentGroupandtheCompany™sRetail
Bankingnetwork.Mr.Czarneckiisadirector(1999)ofM&TSecuritiesandchairmanoftheboard,
presidentandchiefexecutiveofficer(2007)andadirector(2005)ofM&TBank,N.A.
JamesJ.Beardi,age64,isanexecutivevicepresident(2003)oftheRegistrantandM&TBank,
andisresponsibleformanagingtheCompany™sCorporateServices,CentralOperations,andLending
ServicesGroups.Previously,Mr.BeardiwasinchargeoftheCompany™sResidentialMortgagebusiness
andtheGeneralCounsel™sOffice.HewaspresidentandadirectorofM&TMortgageCorporation

(1991)untilitsmergerintoM&TBankonJanuary1,2007.Mr.Beardiservedasseniorvicepresidentof
M&TBankfrom1989to2003.
RobertJ.Bojdak,age55,isanexecutivevicepresidentandchiefcreditofficer(2004)ofthe
RegistrantandM&TBank,andisresponsibleformanagingtheCompany™senterprise-wideriskincluding
credit,operational,complianceandinvestmentrisk.FromApril2002toApril2004,Mr.Bojdakservedas

seniorvicepresidentandcreditdeputyforM&TBank.PrevioustojoiningM&TBankin2002,
Mr.BojdakservedinseveralseniormanagementpositionsatKeyCorp.,mostrecentlyasexecutivevice
presidentandregionalcreditexecutive.HeisanexecutivevicepresidentandadirectorofM&TBank,
N.A.(2004).
StephenJ.Braunscheidel,age54,isanexecutivevicepresident(2004)oftheRegistrantandM&T
Bank,andisinchargeoftheCompany™sHumanResourcesDivision.Previously,hewasaseniorvice
presidentintheM&TInvestmentGroup,wherehemanagedthePrivateClientServicesandEmployee

Benefitsdepartments.Mr.BraunscheidelhasheldanumberofmanagementpositionswithM&TBank
since1978.
AtwoodCollins,III,age64,isanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(1997)andM&TBank
(1996),andisthepresidentandchiefoperatingofficerofM&TBank™sMid-AtlanticDivision.Mr.Collins
isatrusteeofM&TRealEstate(1995)andadirectorofM&TSecurities(2008).
RichardS.Gold,age50,isanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(2007)andM&TBank
(2006)andisresponsibleformanagingtheCompany™sResidentialMortgageandConsumerLending

Divisions.Mr.GoldservedasseniorvicepresidentofM&TBankfrom2000to2006,mostrecently
responsiblefortheRetailBankingDivision,includingM&TSecurities.Mr.Goldisanexecutivevice
presidentofM&TBank,N.A.(2006).
BrianE.Hickey,age58,isanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(1997)andM&TBank
(1996).HeisamemberoftheDirectorsAdvisoryCouncil(1994)oftheRochesterDivisionofM&T
Bank.Mr.Hickeyisresponsibleformanagingallofthenon-retailsegmentsinUpstateNewYorkandin
28theNorthernandCentral/WesternPennsylvaniaregions.Mr.HickeyisalsoresponsiblefortheAuto
FloorPlanlendingbusiness.
RenéF.Jones,age46,isanexecutivevicepresident(2006)andchieffinancialofficer(2005)ofthe
RegistrantandM&TBank.Previously,Mr.JoneswasaseniorvicepresidentinchargeoftheFinancial
PerformanceMeasurementdepartmentwithinM&TBank™sFinanceDivision.Mr.Joneshashelda

numberofmanagementpositionswithinM&TBank™sFinanceDivisionsince1992.Mr.Jonesisan
executivevicepresidentandchieffinancialofficer(2005)andadirector(2007)ofM&TBank,N.A.,and
heischairmanoftheboard,president(2009)andatrustee(2005)ofM&TRealEstate.Heisadirector

ofM&TInsuranceAgency(2007)andM&TSecurities(2005).
DarrenJ.King,age41,isanexecutivevicepresidentoftheRegistrant(2010)andM&TBank
(2009),andisinchargeoftheRetailBankingDivision.Mr.Kingpreviouslyservedasseniorvice

presidentofM&TBank,mostrecentlyresponsiblefortheBusinessBankingDivision,andhashelda
numberofmanagementpositionswithinM&TBanksince2000.Mr.Kingisanexecutivevicepresident
ofM&TBank,N.A.(2009).
KevinJ.Pearson,age49,isanexecutivevicepresident(2002)oftheRegistrantandM&TBank.
HeisamemberoftheDirectorsAdvisoryCouncil(2006)oftheNewYorkCity/LongIslandDivisionof
M&TBank.Mr.Pearsonisresponsibleformanagingallofthenon-retailsegmentsintheNewYorkCity,

Philadelphia,Connecticut,NewJerseyandTarrytownmarketsofM&TBank,aswellastheCompany™s
commercialrealestatebusiness,CommercialMarketingandTreasuryManagement.Heisanexecutive
vicepresidentofM&TRealEstate(2003),chairmanoftheboard(2009)andadirector(2003)ofM&T

RealtyCapitalandanexecutivevicepresidentandadirectorofM&TBank,N.A.(2008).Mr.Pearson
servedasseniorvicepresidentofM&TBankfrom2000to2002.
MicheleD.Trolli,age49,isanexecutivevicepresidentandchiefinformationofficerofthe
RegistrantandM&TBank(2005).SheisinchargeoftheCompany™sTechnologyandGlobalSourcing
groups.Previously,Ms.TrolliwasinchargeoftheTechnologyandBankingOperationsDivision,the
RetailBankingDivisionandtheCorporateServicesGroupofM&TBank.Ms.Trolliservedassenior

director,globalsystemssupport,withFranklinResources,Inc.,aworldwideinvestmentmanagement

company,fromMay2000throughDecember2004.
D.ScottN.Warman,age45,isanexecutivevicepresident(2009)andtreasurer(2008)ofthe
RegistrantandM&TBank.HeisresponsibleformanagingtheCompany™sTreasuryDivision.Mr.Warman

previouslyservedasseniorvicepresidentofM&TBankandhasheldanumberofmanagementpositions
withinM&TBanksince1995.HeisanexecutivevicepresidentandtreasurerofM&TBank,N.A.(2008),
atrusteeofM&TRealEstate(2009)andadirectorofM&TSecurities(2008).
PARTII
Item5.
MarketforRegistrant™sCommonEquity,RelatedShareholderMattersandIssuerPurchasesof
EquitySecurities.
TheRegistrant™scommonstockistradedunderthesymbolMTBontheNewYorkStockExchange.See
cross-referencesheetfordisclosuresincorporatedelsewhereinthisAnnualReportonForm10-Kfor
marketpricesoftheRegistrant™scommonstock,approximatenumberofcommonshareholdersatyear-
end,frequencyandamountsofdividendsoncommonstockandrestrictionsonthepaymentof

dividends.
Duringthefourthquarterof2010,M&Tdidnotissueanysharesofitscommonstockthatwere
notregisteredundertheSecuritiesActof1933.
EquityCompensationPlanInformation
ThefollowingtableprovidesinformationasofDecember31,2010withrespecttosharesofcommon

stockthatmaybeissuedunderM&TBankCorporation™sexistingequitycompensationplans.M&TBank
Corporation™sexistingequitycompensationplansincludetheM&TBankCorporation1983StockOption
Plan,the2001StockOptionPlan,the2005IncentiveCompensationPlan,whichreplacedthe2001Stock

OptionPlan,the2009EquityIncentiveCompensationPlan,andtheM&TBankCorporationEmployee
29StockPurchasePlan,eachofwhichhasbeenpreviouslyapprovedbyshareholders,andtheM&TBank
Corporation2008Directors™StockPlanandtheM&TBankCorporationDeferredBonusPlan,eachof

whichdidnotrequireshareholderapproval.
Thetabledoesnotincludeinformationwithrespecttosharesofcommonstocksubjectto
outstandingoptionsandrightsassumedbyM&TBankCorporationinconnectionwithmergersand

acquisitionsofthecompaniesthatoriginallygrantedthoseoptionsandrights.Footnote(1)tothetable
setsforththetotalnumberofsharesofcommonstockissuableupontheexerciseofsuchassumed
optionsandrightsasofDecember31,2010,andtheirweighted-averageexerciseprice.
PlanCategory
Numberof
Securities
tobeIssuedUpon
Exerciseof
OutstandingOptionsorRights
Weighted-Average
ExercisePriceof
OutstandingOptionsorRights
NumberofSecurities
RemainingAvailable
forFutureIssuance
UnderEquity
CompensationPlans
(ExcludingSecurities
ReflectedinColumnA)
(A)(B)(C)
Equitycompensationplansapprovedby
securityholders:

1983StockOptionPlan
..............
182,374$65.80Š
2001StockOptionPlan
..............
4,481,00288.43Š
2005IncentiveCompensationPlan.
....5,562,417103.502,629,326
2009EquityIncentiveCompensation
Plan...
........................
61,71140.823,330,502
EmployeeStockPurchasePlan....
....126,45078.74304,664
Equitycompensationplansnotapproved
bysecurityholders:

2008Directors™StockPlan........
....3,13187.05148,534
DeferredBonusPlan..
..............
51,43961.12Š
Total...
........................
10,468,524$95.516,413,026
(1)AsofDecember31,2010,atotalof
310,817sharesofM&TBankCorporationcommonstockwereissuable
uponexerciseofoutstandingoptionsorrightsassumedbyM&TBankCorporationinconnectionwithmerger

andacquisitiontransactions.Theweighted-averageexercisepriceofthoseoutstandingoptionsorrightsis
$142.80percommonshare.
Equitycompensationplansadoptedwithouttheapprovalofshareholdersaredescribedbelow:
2008Directors™StockPlan.
M&TBankCorporationmaintainsaplanfornon-employee
membersoftheBoardofDirectorsofM&TBankCorporationandthemembersofitsDirectors

AdvisoryCouncil,andthenon-employeemembersoftheBoardofDirectorsofM&TBankandthe

membersofitsregionalDirectorsAdvisoryCouncils,whichallowssuchdirectors,advisorydirectorsand
membersofregionalDirectorsAdvisoryCouncilstoreceivealloraportionoftheirdirectorial
compensationinsharesofM&Tcommonstock.
DeferredBonusPlan.
M&TBankCorporationmaintainsadeferredbonusplanwhichwas
frozeneffectiveJanuary1,2010anddidnotallowanydeferralsafterthatdate.PriortoJanuary1,2010,
theplanallowedeligibleofficersofM&Tanditssubsidiariestoelecttodeferalloraportionoftheir

annualincentivecompensationawardsandallocatesuchawardstoseveralinvestmentoptions,including
M&Tcommonstock.Atthetimeofthedeferralelection,participantsalsoelectedthetimingof
distributionsfromtheplan.Suchdistributionsarepayableincash,withtheexceptionofbalances

allocatedtoM&Tcommonstockwhicharedistributableintheformofsharesofcommonstock.
30PerformanceGraph
ThefollowinggraphcontainsacomparisonofthecumulativeshareholderreturnonM&Tcommonstock

againstthecumulativetotalreturnsoftheKBWBankIndex,compiledbyKeefe,Bruyette&WoodsInc.,
andtheS&P500Index,compiledbyStandard&Poor™sCorporation,forthefive-yearperiodbeginning
onDecember31,2005andendingonDecember31,2010.TheKBWBankIndexisamarket

capitalizationindexconsistingof24leadingnationalmoney-centerbanksandregionalinstitutions.
ComparisonofFive-YearCumulativeReturn*
$0$50$100
$150$200201020092008200720062005M&T Bank CorporationKBW Bank Index
S&P 500 Index
ShareholderValueatYearEnd*
200520062007200820092010
M&TBankCorporation10011478577095
KBWBankIndex10012093495259
S&P500Index1001161227797112
*Assumesa$100investmentonDecember31,2005andreinvestmentofalldividends.
Inaccordancewithandtotheextentpermittedbyapplicablelaworregulation,theinformation
setforthaboveundertheheadingﬁPerformanceGraphﬂshallnotbeincorporatedbyreferenceintoany
futurefilingundertheSecuritiesActof1933,asamended(theﬁSecuritiesActﬂ),ortheExchangeAct

andshallnotbedeemedtobeﬁsolicitingmaterialﬂortobeﬁfiledﬂwiththeSECundertheSecuritiesAct

ortheExchangeAct.
IssuerPurchasesofEquitySecurities
InFebruary2007,M&TannouncedthatithadbeenauthorizedbyitsBoardofDirectorstopurchaseup
to5,000,000sharesofitscommonstock.M&Tdidnotrepurchaseanysharespursuanttosuchplan
during2010.
31Duringthefourthquarterof2010M&Tpurchasedsharesofitscommonstockasfollows:
Period
(a)Total
Number
ofShares
(orUnits)
Purchased(1)
(b)Average
PricePaid
perShare
(orUnit)
(c)Total
Number
ofShares
(orUnits)
PurchasedasPartof
PubliclyAnnounced
Plansor
Programs(d)MaximumNumber(or
Approximate
DollarValue)
ofShares
(orUnits)
thatmayyet
bePurchased
Underthe
Plansor
Programs(2)
October1-October31,2010...
.................Š$ŠŠ
2,181,500November1-November30,2010......
..........
142,93481.15Š2,181,500
December1-December31,2010
.................
80,93383.48Š2,181,500
Total.....
..................................
223,867$81.99Š
(1)Thetotalnumberofsharespurchasedduringtheperiodsindicatedreflectssharesdeemedtohavebeenreceived
fromemployeeswhoexercisedstockoptionsbyattestingtopreviouslyacquiredcommonsharesinsatisfaction
oftheexerciseprice,asispermittedunderM&T™sstockoptionplans.
(2)OnFebruary22,2007,M&Tannouncedaprogramtopurchaseupto5,000,000sharesofitscommonstock.
Noshareswerepurchasedundersuchprogramduringtheperiodsindicated.
Item6.
SelectedFinancialData.
Seecross-referencesheetfordisclosuresincorporatedelsewhereinthisAnnualReportonForm10-K.
Item7.
Management™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations.
CorporateProfileandSignificantDevelopments
M&TBankCorporation(ﬁM&Tﬂ)isabankholdingcompanyheadquarteredinBuffalo,NewYorkwith

consolidatedassetsof$68.0billionatDecember31,2010.Theconsolidatedfinancialinformation
presentedhereinreflectsM&Tandallofitssubsidiaries,whicharereferredtocollectivelyasﬁthe
Company.ﬂM&T™swhollyownedbanksubsidiariesareM&TBankandM&TBank,NationalAssociation

(ﬁM&TBank,N.A.ﬂ).
M&TBank,withtotalassetsof$67.1billionatDecember31,2010,isaNewYork-chartered
commercialbankwith738domesticbankingofficesinNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,
Delaware,NewJersey,Virginia,WestVirginia,andtheDistrictofColumbia,afull-servicecommercial

bankingofficeinOntario,Canada,andanofficeintheCaymanIslands.M&TBankanditssubsidiaries
offerabroadrangeoffinancialservicestoadiversebaseofconsumers,businesses,professionalclients,
governmentalentitiesandfinancialinstitutionslocatedintheirmarkets.Lendingislargelyfocusedon

consumersresidinginNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,VirginiaandWashington,D.C.,andon
smallandmediumsizebusinessesbasedinthoseareas,althoughloansareoriginatedthroughlending
officesinotherstatesandinOntario,Canada.Certainlendingactivitiesarealsoconductedinother

statesthroughvarioussubsidiaries.M&TBank™ssubsidiariesinclude:M&TRealEstateTrust,acommer-
cialmortgagelender;M&TRealtyCapitalCorporation,amultifamilycommercialmortgagelender;M&T
Securities,Inc.,whichprovidesbrokerage,investmentadvisoryandinsuranceservices;MTBInvestment

Advisors,Inc.,whichservesasinvestmentadvisortotheMTBGroupofFunds,afamilyofproprietary
mutualfunds,andotherfundsandinstitutionalclients;andM&TInsuranceAgency,Inc.,aninsurance
agency.
M&TBank,N.A.,withtotalassetsof$797millionatDecember31,2010,isanationalbankwith
anofficeinOakfield,NewYork.M&TBank,N.A.offersselecteddepositandloanproductsona
nationwidebasis,largelythroughtelephone,Internetanddirectmailmarketingtechniques.
OnNovember5,2010,M&TBankenteredintoapurchaseandassumptionagreementwiththe
FederalDepositInsuranceCorporation(ﬁFDICﬂ)toassumeallofthedeposits,exceptcertainbrokered
deposits,andacquirecertainassetsofKBank,basedinRandallstown,Maryland.Aspartofthe

transaction,M&TBankenteredintoaloss-sharearrangementwiththeFDICwherebyM&TBankwillbe
32reimbursedbytheFDICformostlossesitincursontheacquiredloanportfolio.Thetransactionhas
beenaccountedforusingtheacquisitionmethodofaccountingand,accordingly,assetsacquiredand

liabilitiesassumedwererecordedatestimatedfairvalueontheacquisitiondate.Assetsacquiredinthe

transactiontotaledapproximately$556million,including$154millionofloansand$186millionincash,

andliabilitiesassumedaggregated$528million,including$491millionofdeposits.Inaccordancewith

generallyacceptedaccountingprinciples(ﬁGAAPﬂ),M&TBankrecordedanafter-taxgainonthe

transactionof$17million($28millionbeforetaxes).
OnNovember1,2010,M&TenteredintoadefinitiveagreementwithWilmingtonTrustCorpora-
tion(ﬁWilmingtonTrustﬂ),headquarteredinWilmington,Delaware,underwhichWilmingtonTrustwill

beacquiredbyM&T.Pursuanttothetermsoftheagreement,WilmingtonTrustcommonshareholders

willreceive.051372sharesofM&TcommonstockinexchangeforeachshareofWilmingtonTrust

commonstockinastock-for-stocktransactionvaluedat$351million(withthepricebasedonM&T™s

closingpriceof$74.75pershareasofOctober29,2010),plustheassumptionof$330millionin

preferredstockissuedbyWilmingtonTrustaspartoftheTroubledAssetReliefProgramŠCapital

PurchaseProgramoftheU.S.DepartmentofTreasury(ﬁU.S.Treasuryﬂ).
AtDecember31,2010,WilmingtonTrusthadapproximately$10.9billionofassets,including
$7.5billionofloans,$10.1billionofliabilities,including$9.0billionofdeposits,and$60.1billionof
combinedassetsundermanagement,including$43.6billionmanagedbyWilmingtonTrustand

$16.5billionmanagedbyaffiliates.Themergerissubjecttoanumberofconditions,includingthe

approvalofvariousstateandFederalregulatorsandWilmingtonTrust™scommonshareholders,andis

expectedtobecompletedbymid-year2011.
Netacquisitionandintegration-relatedgainsandexpenses(includedhereinasmerger-related
expenses)associatedwiththeKBankacquisitiontransactionandwiththependingWilmingtonTrust

acquisitionincurredduring2010totaledtoanetgainof$27million($16millionaftertax-effect,or$.14

ofdilutedearningspercommonshare).Reflectedinthatamountarethe$28milliongain($17million

aftertax-effect,or$.14ofdilutedearningspercommonshare)ontheKBanktransactionand$771
thousand($469thousandaftertax-effect)ofexpensesassociatedwiththeKBankandWilmingtonTrust
transactions.Thegainreflectstheamountoffinancialsupportandindemnificationagainstloanlosses

thatM&TBankobtainedfromtheFDIC.
Theconditionofthedomesticandglobaleconomyoverthelastthreeyearshassignificantly
impactedthefinancialservicesindustryasawhole,andspecifically,thefinancialresultsoftheCompany.

Inparticular,risingunemploymentandsignificantlydepressedresidentialrealestatevaluationshaveled

toelevatedlevelsofloancharge-offsexperiencedbyfinancialinstitutionsthroughoutthattimeperiod,

resultinginreducedcapitallevels.Althoughmosteconomistsbelievethattherecessioninthe

UnitedStatesendedsometimeinthelatterhalfof2009,therecoveryoftheeconomysincethenhasbeen

veryslow.WhiletheCompanyexperiencedlowerlevelsofloancharge-offsduring2010ascomparedwith
2009,suchcharge-offscontinuedtobeathigherthanhistoricallevels.Inaddition,manyfinancial
institutionshavecontinuedtoexperienceunrealizedlossesrelatedtoinvestmentsecuritiesbackedby

residentialandcommercialrealestateduetoalackofliquidityinthefinancialmarketsandanticipated

creditlosses.Manyfinancialinstitutions,includingtheCompany,havetakenchargesforthoseunrealized

lossesthatweredeemedtobeotherthantemporary.
AlliedIrishBanks(ﬁAIBﬂ)received26,700,000sharesofM&TcommonstockonApril1,2003asa
resultofM&T™sacquisitionofasubsidiaryofAIBonthatdate.Thosesharesofcommonstockownedby

AIBrepresented22.4%oftheissuedandoutstandingsharesofM&TcommonstockonSeptember30,

2010.InanefforttoraiseitscapitalpositiontomeetnewIrishgovernment-mandatedcapital

requirements,AIBcompletedthesaleofthe26,700,000sharesonNovember4,2010.Asaresult,the
provisionsoftheAgreementandPlanofReorganizationbetweenM&TandAIBrelatedtoAIB™srightsas
asubstantialshareholderinthecorporategovernanceofM&Tbecameinoperativeasofthatdate.
TheFinancialAccountingStandardsBoard(ﬁFASBﬂ)amendedGAAPinJune2009relatingto:
(1)theconsolidationofvariableinterestentitiestoeliminatethequantitativeapproachpreviously

requiredfordeterminingtheprimarybeneficiaryofavariableinterestentityand(2)accountingfor

transfersoffinancialassetstoeliminatetheexceptionsforqualifyingspecial-purposeentitiesfromthe

consolidationguidanceandtheexceptionthatpermittedsaleaccountingforcertainmortgage
33securitizationswhenatransferorhasnotsurrenderedcontroloverthetransferredassets.Theamended
guidancebecameeffectiveasofJanuary1,2010.Therecognitionandmeasurementprovisionsofthe

amendedguidancewereappliedtotransfersthatoccurredonoraftertheeffectivedate.Additionally,
beginningJanuary1,2010,theconceptofaqualifyingspecial-purposeentityisnolongerrelevantfor
accountingpurposes.Therefore,formerlyqualifyingspecial-purposeentitiesmustnowbeevaluatedfor

consolidationinaccordancewithapplicableconsolidationguidance,includingthenewaccounting

guidancerelatingtotheconsolidationofvariableinterestentities.
Inaccordancewiththenewaccountingrequirements,effectiveJanuary1,2010theCompany
includedinitsconsolidatedfinancialstatementsone-to-fourfamilyresidentialmortgageloansthatwere

includedinnon-recoursesecuritizationtransactionsusingqualifiedspecial-purposetrusts.Theeffectof

thatconsolidationasofJanuary1,2010wastoincreaseresidentialrealestateloansby$424million,
decreasetheamortizedcostofavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesby$360million(fairvalueof
$355millionasofJanuary1,2010),andincreaseborrowingsby$65million.Informationconcerning

thoseloansisincludedinnote19ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
OnAugust28,2009,M&TBankenteredintoapurchaseandassumptionagreementwiththe
FDICtoassumeallofthedepositsandacquirecertainassetsofBradfordBank(ﬁBradfordﬂ),basedin

Baltimore,Maryland.Aspartofthetransaction,M&TBankenteredintoaloss-sharearrangementwith

theFDICwherebyM&TBankwillbereimbursedbytheFDICformostlossesitincursontheacquired
loanportfolio.Thetransactionhasbeenaccountedforusingtheacquisitionmethodofaccountingand,
accordingly,assetsacquiredandliabilitiesassumedwererecordedatestimatedfairvalueonthe

acquisitiondate.Assetsacquiredinthetransactiontotaledapproximately$469million,including

$302millionofloans,andliabilitiesassumedaggregated$440million,including$361millionofdeposits.
InaccordancewithGAAP,M&TBankrecordedanafter-taxgainonthetransactionof$18million
($29millionbeforetaxes).
OnMay23,2009,M&TacquiredalloftheoutstandingcommonstockofProvidentBankshares
Corporation(ﬁProvidentﬂ),abankholdingcompanybasedinBaltimore,Maryland,inastock-for-stock
transaction.ProvidentBank,Provident™sbankingsubsidiary,wasmergedintoM&TBankonthatdate.
TheresultsofoperationsacquiredintheProvidenttransactionhavebeenincludedintheCompany™s

financialresultssinceMay23,2009.Providentcommonshareholdersreceived.171625sharesofM&T

commonstockinexchangeforeachshareofProvidentcommonstock,resultinginM&Tissuingatotal
of5,838,308commonshareswithanacquisitiondatefairvalueof$273million.Inaddition,basedon
themergeragreement,outstandingandunexercisedoptionstopurchaseProvidentcommonstockwere

convertedintooptionstopurchasethecommonstockofM&T.Thoseoptionshadanestimatedfair

valueofapproximately$1million.Intotal,thepurchasepricewasapproximately$274millionbasedon
thefairvalueontheacquisitiondateofM&Tcommonstockexchangedandtheoptionstopurchase
M&Tcommonstock.HoldersofProvident™spreferredstockwereissuedsharesofnewSeriesBand

SeriesCPreferredStockofM&Thavingsubstantiallyidenticalterms.Thatpreferredstockandwarrants

topurchasecommonstockassociatedwiththeSeriesCPreferredStockadded$162milliontoM&T™s
shareholders™equity.TheSeriesBPreferredStockhasapreferencevalueof$27million,paysnon-
cumulativedividendsatarateof10%,andisconvertibleinto433,148sharesofM&Tcommonstock.

TheSeriesCPreferredStockhasapreferencevalueof$152million,payscumulativedividendsatarate

of5%throughNovember2013and9%thereafter,andisheldbytheU.S.TreasuryundertheTroubled
AssetReliefProgramŠCapitalPurchaseProgram.
TheProvidenttransactionwasaccountedforusingtheacquisitionmethodofaccountingand,
accordingly,assetsacquired,liabilitiesassumedandconsiderationexchangedwererecordedatestimated
fairvalueontheacquisitiondate.Assetsacquiredtotaled$6.3billion,including$4.0billionofloansand
leases(includingapproximately$1.7billionofcommercialrealestateloans,$1.4billionofconsumer

loans,$700millionofcommercialloansandleasesand$300millionofresidentialrealestateloans)and

$1.0billionofinvestmentsecurities.Liabilitiesassumedwere$5.9billion,including$5.1billionof
deposits.Thetransactionadded$436milliontoM&T™sshareholders™equity,including$280millionof
commonequityand$156millionofpreferredequity.Inconnectionwiththeacquisition,theCompany

recorded$332millionofgoodwilland$63millionofcoredepositintangible.Thecoredepositintangible

isbeingamortizedoversevenyearsusinganacceleratedmethod.TheacquisitionofProvidentexpanded
34theCompany™spresenceintheMid-Atlanticarea,gavetheCompanythesecondlargestdepositsharein
Maryland,andtripledtheCompany™spresenceinVirginia.
Applicationoftheacquisitionmethodrequiresthatacquiredloansberecordedatfairvalueand
prohibitsthecarry-overoftheacquiredentity™sallowanceforcreditlosses.Determiningthefairvalueof
theacquiredloansrequiredestimatingcashflowsexpectedtobecollectedontheloans.Theimpactof

estimatedcreditlossesonallacquiredloanswasconsideredintheestimationoffuturecashflowsusedin
thedeterminationofestimatedfairvalueasoftheacquisitiondate.
Netmerger-relatedexpensesassociatedwiththeBradfordandProvidentacquisitiontransactions
incurredduring2009totaled$60million($36millionaftertaxeffect,or$.31ofdilutedearningsper
commonshare).Reflectedinthatamountarethe$29million($18millionaftertaxeffect,or$.15of
dilutedearningspercommonshare)gainontheBradfordtransactionand$89million($54millionafter

taxeffect,or$.46ofdilutedearningspercommonshare)ofexpensesassociatedwiththeProvidentand
Bradfordtransactions.Thegainreflectstheamountoffinancialsupportandindemnificationagainstloan
lossesthatM&TBankobtainedfromtheFDIC.Theexpenseswereforprofessionalservicesandother

temporaryhelpfeesassociatedwiththeconversionofsystemsand/orintegrationofoperations;costs
relatedtobranchandofficeconsolidations;costsrelatedtoterminationofexistingProvidentcontractual
arrangementsforvariousservices;initialmarketingandpromotionexpensesdesignedtointroduceM&T

BanktocustomersofBradfordandProvident;severanceforformeremployeesofProvident;incentive
compensationcosts;travelcosts;andprinting,suppliesandothercostsofcommencingoperationsinnew
marketsandoffices.
Inthethirdquarterof2008,theFederalReserve,theU.S.TreasuryandtheFDICinitiated
measurestostabilizethefinancialmarketsandtoprovideliquidityforfinancialinstitutions.The
EmergencyEconomicStabilizationActof2008(ﬁEESAﬂ)wassignedintolawonOctober3,2008and

authorizedtheU.S.Treasurytoprovidefundstobeusedtorestoreliquidityandstabilitytothe
U.S.financialsystempursuanttotheTroubledAssetReliefProgram(ﬁTARPﬂ).Undertheauthorityof
EESA,theU.S.TreasuryinstitutedavoluntarycapitalpurchaseprogramunderTARPtoencourage

U.S.financialinstitutionstobuildcapitaltoincreasetheflowoffinancingtoU.S.businessesand
consumersandtosupporttheU.S.economy.Undertheprogram,theU.S.Treasurypurchasedsenior
preferredsharesoffinancialinstitutionswhichpaycumulativedividendsatarateof5%peryearforfive
yearsandthereafteratarateof9%peryear.Thetermsoftheseniorpreferredshares,asamendedbythe
AmericanRecoveryandReinvestmentActof2009(ﬁARRAﬂ),providethatthesharesmayberedeemed,

inwholeorinpart,atparvalueplusaccruedandunpaiddividendsuponapprovaloftheU.S.Treasury
andtheparticipatingfinancialinstitution™sprimarybankingregulator.Theseniorpreferredsharesare
non-votingandqualifyasTier1capitalforregulatoryreportingpurposes.Inconnectionwithpurchasing

seniorpreferredshares,theU.S.Treasuryalsoreceivedwarrantstopurchasethecommonstockof
participatingfinancialinstitutionshavingamarketpriceof15%oftheamountofseniorpreferredshares
onthedateofinvestmentwithanexercisepriceequaltothemarketpriceoftheparticipating

institution™scommonstockatthetimeofapproval,calculatedona20-tradingdaytrailingaverage.The
warrantshaveatermoftenyearsandareimmediatelyexercisable,inwholeorinpart.Foraperiodof
threeyears,theconsentoftheU.S.Treasurywillberequiredforparticipatinginstitutionstoincrease

theircommonstockdividendorrepurchasetheircommonstock,otherthaninconnectionwithbenefit
plansconsistentwithpastpractice.Participationinthecapitalpurchaseprogramalsoincludescertain
restrictionsonexecutivecompensationthatweremodifiedbyARRAandfurtherdefinedbythe

U.S.TreasuryinitsInterimFinalRuleonTARPStandardsforCompensationandCorporateGovernance.
Theminimumsubscriptionamountavailabletoaparticipatinginstitutionwasonepercentoftotalrisk-
weightedassets.Themaximumsuggestedsubscriptionamountwasthreepercentofrisk-weightedassets.

OnDecember23,2008,M&TissuedtotheU.S.Treasury$600millionofSeriesAPreferredStockand
warrantstopurchase1,218,522sharesofM&Tcommonstockat$73.86pershare.M&Telectedto
participateinthecapitalpurchaseprogramatanamountequaltoapproximately1%ofitsrisk-weighted

assetsatthetime.Asalreadynoted,Providentalsoparticipatedinthecapitalpurchaseprogram.
Preferredstockresultingfromthatparticipationwasconvertedinto$152millionofM&TSeriesC
PreferredStockandwarrantstopurchase407,542sharesofM&Tcommonstockat$55.76pershare.In

total,M&Thas$752millionofpreferredstockoutstandingrelatedtothecapitalpurchaseprogram.
35AdditionalinformationregardingpreferredstockofM&Tisincludedinnote10ofNotestoFinancial
Statements.RecentLegislativeDevelopments
TheDodd-FrankWallStreetReformandConsumerProtectionAct(ﬁDodd-FrankActﬂ)wassignedinto
lawonJuly21,2010.Thisnewlawhasandwillcontinuetosignificantlychangethecurrentbank

regulatorystructureandaffectthelending,deposit,investment,tradingandoperatingactivitiesof

financialinstitutionsandtheirholdingcompanies,andwillfundamentallychangethesystemof

regulatoryoversightoftheCompany,includingthroughthecreationoftheFinancialStabilityOversight

Council.TheDodd-FrankActrequiresvariousfederalagenciestoadoptabroadrangeofnew

implementingrulesandregulations,andtopreparenumerousstudiesandreportsforCongress.The

federalagenciesaregivensignificantdiscretionindraftingtheimplementingrulesandregulations,and,
asaresult,manyofthedetailsandmuchoftheimpactoftheDodd-FrankActisnotyetknown.The
Dodd-FrankAct,however,couldhaveamaterialadverseimpacteitheronthefinancialservicesindustry

asawhole,oronM&T™sbusiness,resultsofoperations,financialconditionandliquidity.
TheDodd-FrankActbroadensthebaseforFDICinsuranceassessments.Assessmentswillnowbe
basedontheaverageconsolidatedtotalassetslesstangibleequitycapitalofafinancialinstitution.The

Dodd-FrankActalsopermanentlyincreasesthemaximumamountofdepositinsuranceforbanks,

savingsinstitutionsandcreditunionsto$250,000perdepositor,retroactivetoJanuary1,2009,andnon-

interestbearingtransactionaccountshaveunlimiteddepositinsurancethroughDecember31,2013.
Thelegislationalsorequiresthatpubliclytradedcompaniesgiveshareholdersanon-bindingvote
onexecutivecompensationandﬁgoldenparachuteﬂpayments,andauthorizestheSecuritiesandExchange
Commissiontopromulgaterulesthatwouldallowshareholderstonominatetheirowncandidatesusing
acompany™sproxymaterials.TheDodd-FrankActalsodirectstheFederalReserveBoardtopromulgate

rulesprohibitingexcessivecompensationpaidtobankholdingcompanyexecutives,regardlessofwhether

thecompanyispubliclytraded.
TheDodd-FrankActestablishedanewBureauofConsumerFinancialProtectionwithbroad
powerstosuperviseandenforceconsumerprotectionlaws.TheBureauofConsumerFinancialProtection

hasbroadrule-makingauthorityforawiderangeofconsumerprotectionlawsthatapplytoallbanks

andsavingsinstitutions,includingtheauthoritytoprohibitﬁunfair,deceptiveorabusiveﬂactsand

practices.TheBureauofConsumerFinancialProtectionhasexaminationandenforcementauthorityover

allbanksandsavingsinstitutionswithmorethan$10billioninassets.
Inaddition,theDodd-FrankAct,amongotherthings:
kWeakensthefederalpreemptionrulesthathavebeenapplicablefornationalbanksandgivesstate
attorneysgeneraltheabilitytoenforcefederalconsumerprotectionlaws;
kAmendstheElectronicFundTransferAct(ﬁEFTAﬂ)whichhasresultedin,amongotherthings,the

FederalReserveBoardissuingrulesaimedatlimitingdebit-cardinterchangefees;
kAppliesthesameleverageandrisk-basedcapitalrequirementsthatapplytoinsureddepository

institutionstomostbankholdingcompanieswhich,amongotherthings,will,afterathree-year

phase-inperiodwhichbeginsJanuary1,2013,removetrustpreferredsecuritiesasapermitted

componentofaholdingcompany™sTier1capital;
kProvidesforanincreaseintheFDICassessmentfordepositoryinstitutionswithassetsof

$10billionormoreandincreasestheminimumreserveratioforthedepositinsurancefundfrom

1.15%to1.35%;
kImposescomprehensiveregulationoftheover-the-counterderivativesmarket,whichwould

includecertainprovisionsthatwouldeffectivelyprohibitinsureddepositoryinstitutionsfrom
conductingcertainderivativesbusinessesintheinstitutionitself;
kRepealsthefederalprohibitionsonthepaymentofinterestondemanddeposits,therebypermit-
tingdepositoryinstitutionstopayinterestonbusinesstransactionandotheraccounts;
kProvidesmortgagereformprovisionsregardingacustomer™sabilitytorepay,restrictingvariable-

ratelendingbyrequiringtheabilitytorepaytobedeterminedforvariable-rateloansbyusingthe

maximumratethatwillapplyduringthefirstfiveyearsofavariable-rateloanterm,andmaking
36moreloanssubjecttoprovisionsforhighercostloans,newdisclosures,andcertainother
revisions;and
kCreatestheFinancialStabilityOversightCouncil,whichwillrecommendtotheFederalReserve
Boardincreasinglystrictrulesforcapital,leverage,liquidity,riskmanagementandotherrequire-
mentsascompaniesgrowinsizeandcomplexity.
Theenvironmentinwhichbankingorganizationswilloperateafterthefinancialcrisis,including
legislativeandregulatorychangesaffectingcapital,liquidity,supervision,permissibleactivities,corporate
governanceandcompensation,changesinfiscalpolicyandstepstoeliminategovernmentsupportfor

bankingorganizations,mayhavelong-termeffectsonthebusinessmodelandprofitabilityofbanking
organizations,thefullextentofwhichcannotnowbeforeseen.ManyaspectsoftheDodd-FrankAct
remainsubjecttorulemakingandwilltakeeffectoverseveralyears,makingitdifficulttoanticipatethe

overallfinancialimpactonM&T,itscustomersorthefinancialindustrymoregenerally.Provisionsinthe
legislationthataffectdepositinsuranceassessments,paymentofinterestondemanddepositsand
interchangefeescouldincreasethecostsassociatedwithdepositsaswellasplacelimitationsoncertain

revenuesthosedepositsmaygenerate.ProvisionsinthelegislationthatrevoketheTier1capitaltreatment
oftrustpreferredsecuritiesandotherwiserequirerevisionstothecapitalrequirementsofM&TandM&T
BankcouldrequireM&TandM&TBanktoseekothersourcesofcapitalinthefuture.Theimpactof

newrulesrelatingtooverdraftfeepracticesisincludedhereinundertheheadingﬁOtherIncome.ﬂ
CriticalAccountingEstimates
TheCompany™ssignificantaccountingpoliciesconformwithGAAPandaredescribedinnote1ofNotes

toFinancialStatements.Inapplyingthoseaccountingpolicies,managementoftheCompanyisrequired
toexercisejudgmentindeterminingmanyofthemethodologies,assumptionsandestimatestobe
utilized.Certainofthecriticalaccountingestimatesaremoredependentonsuchjudgmentandinsome

casesmaycontributetovolatilityintheCompany™sreportedfinancialperformanceshouldtheassump-
tionsandestimatesusedchangeovertimeduetochangesincircumstances.Someofthemoresignificant
areasinwhichmanagementoftheCompanyappliescriticalassumptionsandestimatesincludethe

following:
kAllowanceforcreditlossesŠTheallowanceforcreditlossesrepresentstheamountwhich,in

management™sjudgment,willbeadequatetoabsorbcreditlossesinherentintheloanandlease

portfolioasofthebalancesheetdate.Aprovisionforcreditlossesisrecordedtoadjustthelevel

oftheallowanceasdeemednecessarybymanagement.Inestimatinglossesinherentintheloan
andleaseportfolio,assumptionsandjudgmentareappliedtomeasureamountsandtimingof
expectedfuturecashflows,collateralvaluesandotherfactorsusedtodeterminetheborrowers™

abilitiestorepayobligations.Historicallosstrendsarealsoconsidered,asareeconomicconditions,
industrytrends,portfoliotrendsandborrower-specificfinancialdata.Changesinthecircum-
stancesconsideredwhendeterminingmanagement™sestimatesandassumptionscouldresultin

changesinthoseestimatesandassumptions,whichmayresultinadjustmentoftheallowance.A
detaileddiscussionoffactsandcircumstancesconsideredbymanagementinassessingthe
adequacyoftheallowanceforcreditlossesisincludedhereinundertheheadingﬁProvisionfor

CreditLosses.ﬂ
kValuationmethodologiesŠManagementoftheCompanyappliesvariousvaluationmethodologies

toassetsandliabilitieswhichofteninvolveasignificantdegreeofjudgment,particularlywhen

liquidmarketsdonotexistfortheparticularitemsbeingvalued.Quotedmarketpricesare
referredtowhenestimatingfairvaluesforcertainassets,suchastradingassets,mostinvestment
securities,andresidentialrealestateloansheldforsaleandrelatedcommitments.However,for

thoseitemsforwhichanobservableliquidmarketdoesnotexist,managementutilizessignificant
estimatesandassumptionstovaluesuchitems.Examplesoftheseitemsincludeloans,privately
issuedmortgage-backedsecurities,deposits,borrowings,goodwill,coredepositandotherintangi-

bleassets,andotherassetsandliabilitiesobtainedorassumedinbusinesscombinations;capital-
izedservicingassets;pensionandotherpostretirementbenefitobligations;valueascribedtostock-
basedcompensation;estimatedresidualvaluesofpropertyassociatedwithleases;andcertain

derivativeandotherfinancialinstruments.Thesevaluationsrequiretheuseofvarious
37assumptions,including,amongothers,discountrates,ratesofreturnonassets,repaymentrates,
cashflows,defaultrates,costsofservicingandliquidationvalues.Theuseofdifferentassumptions

couldproducesignificantlydifferentresults,whichcouldhavematerialpositiveornegativeeffects
ontheCompany™sresultsofoperations.Inadditiontovaluation,theCompanymustassess
whetherthereareanydeclinesinvaluebelowthecarryingvalueofassetsthatshouldbe

consideredotherthantemporaryorotherwiserequireanadjustmentincarryingvalueand
recognitionofalossintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.Examplesincludeinvestment
securities,otherinvestments,mortgageservicingrights,goodwill,coredepositandotherintangible

assets,amongothers.Specificassumptionsandestimatesutilizedbymanagementarediscussedin
detailhereininmanagement™sdiscussionandanalysisoffinancialconditionandresultsof
operationsandinnotes1,3,4,7,8,11,12,18,19and20ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
kCommitments,contingenciesandoff-balancesheetarrangementsŠInformationregardingthe
Company™scommitmentsandcontingencies,includingguaranteesandcontingentliabilitiesarising
fromlitigation,andtheirpotentialeffectsontheCompany™sresultsofoperationsisincludedin

note21ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Inaddition,theCompanyisroutinelysubjectto
examinationsfromvariousgovernmentaltaxingauthorities.Suchexaminationsmayresultin
challengestothetaxreturntreatmentappliedbytheCompanytospecifictransactions.Manage-

mentbelievesthattheassumptionsandjudgmentusedtorecordtax-relatedassetsorliabilities
havebeenappropriate.Shouldtaxlawschangeorthetaxauthoritiesdeterminethatmanagement™s
assumptionswereinappropriate,theresultandadjustmentsrequiredcouldhaveamaterialeffect

ontheCompany™sresultsofoperations.InformationregardingtheCompany™sincometaxesis
presentedinnote13ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Therecognitionorde-recognitioninthe
Company™sconsolidatedfinancialstatementsofassetsandliabilitiesheldbyso-calledvariable

interestentitiesissubjecttotheinterpretationandapplicationofcomplexaccountingpronounce-
mentsorinterpretationsthatrequiremanagementtoestimateandassesstheprobabilityof
financialoutcomesinfutureperiodsandthedegreetowhichtheCompanycaninfluencethose

outcomes.InformationrelatingtotheCompany™sinvolvementinsuchentitiesandtheaccounting

treatmentaffordedeachsuchinvolvementisincludedinnote19ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Overview
TheCompanyrecordednetincomeduring2010of$736millionor$5.69ofdilutedearningsper

commonshare,up94%and97%,respectively,from$380millionor$2.89ofdilutedearningsper
commonsharein2009.Basicearningspercommonsharerose97%to$5.72in2010from$2.90in2009.
Netincomein2008aggregated$556million,whiledilutedandbasicearningspercommonsharewere

$5.01and$5.04,respectively.Theafter-taximpactofnetmerger-relatedgainsandexpensesassociated
withtheacquisitiontransactionspreviouslydescribedtotaledtoanetgainof$16million($27million
pre-tax)or$.14ofbasicanddilutedearningspercommonsharein2010,andnetexpensesof$36million

($60millionpre-tax)or$.31ofbasicanddilutedearningspercommonsharein2009.Similarexpenses
of$2million($4millionpre-tax)or$.02ofbasicanddilutedearningspercommonsharewereincurred
in2008relatedtoacquisitiontransactionscompletedin2007.Netincomeexpressedasarateofreturn

onaverageassetsin2010was1.08%,comparedwith.56%in2009and.85%in2008.Thereturnon
averagecommonshareholders™equitywas9.30%in2010,5.07%in2009and8.64%in2008.
TheCompany™simprovedfinancialperformancein2010ascomparedwith2009waslargelydriven
byhighernetinterestincomeandlowercreditcosts.Thehighernetinterestincomewastheresultofa
35basispoint(hundredthsofonepercent)wideningofthenetinterestmargin,ortaxable-equivalentnet
interestincomedividedbyaverageearningassets.Thatwideningreflectsa38basispointreductionof

ratespaidoninterest-bearingliabilities,includinga40basispointreductioninratespaidoninterest-
bearingdeposits.Reflectingthewidernetinterestmargin,taxable-equivalentnetinterestincome
increased$214million,or10%,to$2.29billionin2010from$2.08billionin2009.
Whiletheprovisionforcreditlossesduring2010waselevatedwhencomparedtohistoricallevels,
itdeclined39%to$368millionfrom$604millionin2009.Netcharge-offsdropped33%to$346million
in2010from$514millionin2009.Asapercentageofaverageloansoutstanding,netcharge-offswere

.67%in2010and1.01%in2009.Thelowerlevelofnetcharge-offsin2010wasledbyadecreasein
38commercialloancharge-offs,whichdeclinedto$65millionfrom$172millionin2009.Another
significantfactorinthehighernetincomein2010wasadecreaseinother-than-temporaryimpairment

chargesoninvestmentsecuritiesto$86million($53millionaftertax-effect)from$138million($84mil-

lionaftertax-effect)in2009.Thoseimpairmentchargeswerelargelyrelatedtocertainprivatelyissued
collateralizedmortgageobligations(ﬁCMOsﬂ)backedbyresidentialrealestateloansandcollateralized
debtobligations(ﬁCDOsﬂ)backedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyotherfinancialinstitutions.
SeveralnoteworthyitemswerereflectedintheCompany™sfinancialresultsin2009.Theprovision
forcreditlossesandnetloancharge-offsduring2009wereathigherthanhistoricallevels,duelargelyto

therecessionarystateoftheU.S.economyanditsimpactonconsumersandbusinesses,andthe
continuationofadistressedresidentialrealestatemarket.Theprovisionforcreditlossesin2009was
$604million,upfrom$412millionin2008.Netcharge-offsduring2009aggregated$514million,

comparedwith$383millionin2008.Asapercentageofaverageloansoutstanding,netcharge-offswere

1.01%and.78%in2009and2008,respectively.Charge-offsinallmajorloancategoriesrosefrom2008

to2009.Themostdramaticincreaseinnetcharge-offswasrelatedtocommercialloans,whichroseto

$172millionin2009from$94millionin2008.Thatincreasewaslargelydrivenbyasmallnumberof
significantcommercialloancharge-offs.Inaddition,netcharge-offsofresidentialrealestateloansroseto
$92millionin2009from$63millionin2008,reflectingturbulenceintheresidentialrealestatemarket

placethatresultedindeterioratingrealestatevaluesandincreaseddelinquencies.TheCompanyalso

incurredelevatedcostsin2009relatedtotheworkoutprocessformodifyingresidentialmortgageloans

ofcreditworthyborrowersandtotheforeclosureprocessforborrowersunabletomakepaymentson

theirloans.
During2009,$84millionofafter-taxother-than-temporaryimpairmentcharges($138million
beforetaxes)wererecordedoncertainavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecurities,reducingbasicanddiluted

earningspercommonshareby$.73.TheCompanyalsoexperiencedsubstantiallyhighercostsrelatedto

depositassessmentsbytheFDIC.Suchcostsroseto$97millionin2009from$7millionin2008and

reflectedhigherassessmentrates,expirationsofavailablecreditsanda$33millionsecondquarter2009
specialassessmentleviedbytheFDIConinsuredfinancialinstitutionstorebuildtheDepositInsurance
Fund.Thatspecialassessmentreducednetincomeanddilutedearningspercommonshareby$20million

and$.17,respectively.
TheCompany™sfinancialresultsfor2008werealsoaffectedbyseveralnotablefactors.Largelythe
resultofthestateoftheU.S.economyandthedistressedresidentialrealestatemarketplace,the
Company™sprovisionforcreditlossesin2008was$412million,significantlyhigherthan$192millionin
2007.Netcharge-offsofloansin2008roseto$383millionfrom$114millionin2007.Netloancharge-

offsasapercentageofaverageloansoutstandingwere.78%and.26%in2008and2007,respectively.

Whilecharge-offswereupinallmajorcategoriesofloans,themostsignificantcontributorstothesharp

risewereloancharge-offsrelatedtoresidentialrealestatemarkets;charge-offsofloanstobuildersand

developersofresidentialrealestatejumpedfrom$4millionin2007to$100millionin2008,and
residentialrealestateloancharge-offsgrewto$63millionin2008from$19millionin2007.Notonly
didtheconditionoftheresidentialrealestatemarketsnegativelyimpacttheCompany™sfinancialresults

in2008throughahigherprovisionforcreditlosses,butsignificantlyhighercostswereincurredrelated

totheworkoutprocessformodifyingresidentialmortgageloansandtotheforeclosureprocess.
Duringthethirdquarterof2008,a$153million(pre-tax)other-than-temporaryimpairment
chargewasrecordedrelatedtopreferredstockissuancesoftheFederalNationalMortgageAssociation
(ﬁFannieMaeﬂ)andtheFederalHomeLoanMortgageCorporation(ﬁFreddieMacﬂ).Thewrite-down

wastakenonpreferredstockwithabasisof$162millionfollowingtheU.S.Government™splacementof

FannieMaeandFreddieMacunderconservatorshiponSeptember7,2008.TheCompanyrecognized

additionalother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesduring2008totaling$29million(pre-tax)related

tocertainCDOsandCMOs.Intotal,other-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesoninvestmentsecurities
aggregated$182million($111millionaftertaxeffect)during2008,therebyloweringdilutedearningsper
commonshareby$1.00.
AlsoreflectedintheCompany™s2008resultswas$29millionofafter-taxincome,or$.26of
dilutedearningspercommonshare,resultingfromM&TBank™sstatusasamemberbankofVisa.During

thelastquarterof2007,Visacompletedareorganizationincontemplationofitsinitialpublicoffering
39(ﬁIPOﬂ)in2008.AspartofthatreorganizationM&TBankandothermemberbanksofVisareceived
sharesofClassBcommonstockofVisa.M&TBankwasallocated1,967,028ClassBcommonsharesof

VisabasedonitsproportionateownershipofVisa.Ofthoseshares,760,455weremandatorilyredeemed

inMarch2008foranafter-taxgainof$20million($33millionpre-tax),whichwasrecordedasﬁgainon

bankinvestmentsecuritiesﬂintheconsolidatedstatementofincome,adding$.18todilutedearningsper

commonshare.InaccordancewithGAAP,theCompanyhasnotrecognizedanyvalueforitsremaining

commonstockownershipinterestinVisa.Duringthefirstquarterof2008,VisacompleteditsIPOof

commonstockand,aspartofthetransaction,fundedanescrowaccountwith$3billionfromthe

proceedsoftheIPOtocoverpotentialsettlementsarisingoutofcertainlitigationagainstVisa.Asa
result,duringthefirstthreemonthsof2008,theCompanyreversedapproximately$15millionofa
liabilityaccruedduringthefourthquarterof2007relatedtosuchlitigation,adding$9milliontonet

income($.08perdilutedcommonshare).Thatliabilityhadbeenaccruedin2007becauseM&TBank

andothermemberbanksofVisaareobligatedundervariousagreementstoshareinlossesstemming

fromcertainlitigationagainstVisa.Visasubsequentlyannouncedthatithadfurtherfundedtheescrow

accounttoprovideforthesettlementofthelitigation.Thosesubsequentfundingsdidnotresultina

materialimpacttotheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialpositionorresultsofoperationsasoforforthe

yearsendedDecember31,2010,2009and2008.
TheCompanyresolvedcertaintaxissuesduringthethirdquarterof2008relatedtoitsactivities
invariousjurisdictionsduringtheyears1999-2007.Asaresult,theCompanypaid$40milliontosettle
thoseissues,butwasabletoreducepreviouslyaccruedincometaxexpensein2008by$40million,
therebyadding$.36tothatyear™sdilutedearningspercommonshare.
Aspreviouslynoted,netinterestincomerecordedonataxable-equivalentbasisrose10%to
$2.29billionin2010from$2.08billionin2009,reflectingawidernetinterestmargin.Averageearning

assetsduring2010were$59.7billion,littlechangedfrom$59.6billionin2009.
Taxable-equivalentnetinterestincomein2009was6%higherthan$1.96billionin2008.
Contributingtotheimprovementweregrowthinaverageearningassetsandawideningofthe
Company™snetinterestmargin.Averageearningassetsrose3%to$59.6billionin2009from$58.0billion
in2008,largelyduetothe$5.5billionofearningassetsobtainedintheProvidentandBradford

transactions.Thenetinterestmarginwidened11basispointsto3.49%in2009from3.38%in2008,

largelyduetolowerinterestratespaidondepositsandborrowings.
Aspreviouslynoted,theprovisionforcreditlossesof$368millionin2010wasdown39%from
$604millionin2009.Netcharge-offstotaled$346millionin2010,downfrom$514millionin2009.The

provisionforcreditlossesandnetcharge-offsin2009wereupsignificantlyfrom$412millionand

$383million,respectively,in2008.Deterioratingeconomicconditionsimpactingthequalityofoutstand-

ingloanstobusinessesandconsumers,anddepressedresidentialrealestatevaluationsandtheirimpact

ontheCompany™sportfoliosofresidentialmortgageloansandloanstoresidentialrealestatebuilders
anddevelopers,werethemostsignificantfactorscontributingtothehigherlevelsoftheprovisionand
netcharge-offsin2009ascomparedwiththeprecedingyear.Netcharge-offsasapercentageofaverage

loansandleasesoutstandingwere.78%in2008.Theprovisionineachyearrepresentstheresultof

management™sanalysisofthecompositionoftheloanandleaseportfolioandotherfactors,including

concernregardinguncertaintyabouteconomicconditions,bothnationallyandinmanyofthemarkets

servedbytheCompany,andtheimpactofsuchconditionsandprospectsontheabilitiesofborrowersto

repayloans.
Noninterestincomerose6%to$1.11billionin2010from$1.05billionin2009.Gainsandlosses
onbankinvestmentsecurities(consistingpredominantlyofother-than-temporaryimpairmentcharges)

totaledtonetlossesof$84millionin2010and$137millionin2009.Excludinggainsandlossesfrom
bankinvestmentsecurities,the$28milliongainrecordedontheKBanktransactionin2010andthe
$29milliongainrecordedontheBradfordtransactionin2009,noninterestincomewas$1.16billionin

eachof2010and2009.Declinesinrevenuesrelatedtoresidentialmortgagebanking,brokerageservices

andtheCompany™strustbusinesswereoffsetbyhigherservicechargesondepositaccounts,credit-related

feesandotherrevenuesfromoperations.
Noninterestincomein2009wasup12%from$939millionin2008.Gainsandlossesonbank
investmentsecurities(includingother-than-temporaryimpairmentlosses)totaledtonetlossesof
40$148millionin2008.Thoselossesin2008wereduetoother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesrelated
tocertainoftheCompany™sprivatelyissuedCMOs,CDOsandpreferredstockholdingsofFannieMae

andFreddieMac.Theinvestmentsecuritieslossesin2008arenetofthe$33milliongainfromthesaleof
sharesofVisa.Excludinggainsandlossesfrombankinvestmentsecuritiesandthe$29milliongain
recordedontheBradfordtransaction,noninterestincomeof$1.16billionin2009was6%higherthan

$1.09billionin2008.Contributingtothatimprovementwerehighermortgagebankingrevenuesand
servicechargesonacquisition-relateddepositaccounts,partiallyoffsetbydeclinesintrustandbrokerage
servicesincome.
Noninterestexpensein2010totaled$1.91billion,down3%from$1.98billionin2009.During
2008,noninterestexpenseaggregated$1.73billion.Includedinsuchamountsareexpensesconsideredby
M&Ttobeﬁnonoperatingﬂinnature,consistingofamortizationofcoredepositandotherintangible

assetsof$58million,$64millionand$67millionin2010,2009and2008,respectively,andmerger-
relatedexpensesof$771,000in2010,$89millionin2009and$4millionin2008.Exclusiveofthose
nonoperatingexpenses,noninterestoperatingexpensesaggregated$1.86billionin2010,$1.83billionin

2009and$1.66billionin2008.Theincreaseinsuchexpensesfrom2009to2010waslargelyattributable
tohighercostsforprofessionalservicesandadvertisingin2010,anda$22millionreductionofthe
allowanceforimpairmentofcapitalizedresidentialmortgageservicingrightsin2009.Fortheyearended

December31,2010,therewasnochangetothatimpairmentallowance.Partiallyoffsettingthosefactors
weredeclinesinexpensesin2010relatedtoforeclosedpropertiesandFDICassessments.Themost
significantfactorsforthehigherlevelofnoninterestoperatingexpensesin2009ascomparedwith2008

werethehigherFDICassessments,costsassociatedwiththeacquiredoperationsofProvidentand
Bradford,andhigherforeclosure-relatedexpenses.Partiallyoffsettingthoseincreaseswasapartialreversal
ofthevaluationallowanceforcapitalizedresidentialmortgageservicingrightsof$22millionin2009,

comparedwithanadditiontothevaluationallowanceof$16millionin2008.Includedinoperating
expensesin2010were$15millionoftax-deductiblecontributionsmadetoTheM&TCharitable
Foundation,atax-exemptprivatecharitablefoundation.Similarcontributionsof$12millionand

$6millionweremadein2009and2008,respectively.
Theefficiencyratioexpressestherelationshipofoperatingexpensestorevenues.TheCompany™s
efficiencyratio,ornoninterestoperatingexpenses(aspreviouslydefined)dividedbythesumoftaxable-
equivalentnetinterestincomeandnoninterestincome(exclusiveofgainsandlossesfrombank

investmentsecuritiesandgainsonmergertransactions),was53.7%in2010,comparedwith56.5%in
2009and54.4%in2008.
41Table1
EARNINGSSUMMARY
Dollarsinmillions
Amount%Amount%20102009200820072006
CompoundGrowthRate
5Years
2005to2010
2009to20102008to2009
Increase(Decrease)(a)
$6.8Š$(552.4)(17)Interestincome(b)..............$2,753.82,747.03,299.53,565.63,333.8Š%
(207.1)(31)(668.3)(50)Interestexpense................462.3669.41,337.81,694.61,496.6(14)
213.910115.96Netinterestincome(b)...........2,291.52,077.61,961.71,871.01,837.25
(236.0)(39)192.047Less:provisionforcreditlosses.....368.0604.0412.0192.080.033
53.6Š10.7Š
Gain(loss)onbankinvestment
securities(c).................(83.5)(137.1)(147.8)(126.1)2.6Š
6.4198.59Otherincome.................1,191.61,185.21,086.71,059.11,043.24
Less:(2.2)Š44.85Salariesandemployeebenefits....999.71,001.9957.1908.3873.34
(63.6)(6)208.827Otherexpense...............915.1978.7769.9719.3678.47
575.7106(220.5)(29)Incomebeforeincometaxes.......1,116.8541.1761.6984.41,251.3(1)
Less:2.210ŠŠTaxable-equivalentadjustment(b)..24.021.821.820.819.77
217.2156(44.5)(24)Incometaxes................356.6139.4183.9309.3392.4(2)
$356.394$(176.0)(32)Netincome...................$736.2379.9555.9654.3839.2(1)%
(a)Changeswerecalculatedfromunroundedamounts.
(b)Interestincomedataareonataxable-equivalentbasis.Thetaxable-equivalentadjustmentrepresentsaddi-
tionalincometaxesthatwouldbedueifallinterestincomeweresubjecttoincometaxes.Thisadjustment,
whichisrelatedtointerestreceivedonqualifiedmunicipalsecurities,industrialrevenuefinancingsandpre-

ferredequitysecurities,isbasedonacompositeincometaxrateofapproximately39%.
(c)Includesother-than-temporaryimpairmentlosses,ifany.
SupplementalReportingofNon-GAAPResultsofOperations
Asaresultofbusinesscombinationsandotheracquisitions,theCompanyhadintangibleassetsconsisting

ofgoodwillandcoredepositandotherintangibleassetstotaling$3.7billionateachofDecember31,

2010and2009and$3.4billionatDecember31,2008.Includedinsuchintangibleassetswasgoodwillof
$3.5billionateachofDecember31,2010and2009and$3.2billionatDecember31,2008.Amortization
ofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets,aftertaxeffect,totaled$35million,$39millionand

$41millionduring2010,2009and2008,respectively.
M&Tconsistentlyprovidessupplementalreportingofitsresultsonaﬁnetoperatingﬂorﬁtangibleﬂ
basis,fromwhichM&Texcludestheafter-taxeffectofamortizationofcoredepositandotherintangible

assets(andtherelatedgoodwill,coredepositintangibleandotherintangibleassetbalances,netof
applicabledeferredtaxamounts)andgainsandexpensesassociatedwithmergingacquiredoperationsinto
theCompany,sincesuchitemsareconsideredbymanagementtobeﬁnonoperatingﬂinnature.Although

ﬁnetoperatingincomeﬂasdefinedbyM&TisnotaGAAPmeasure,M&T™smanagementbelievesthatthis
informationhelpsinvestorsunderstandtheeffectofacquisitionactivityinreportedresults.
Netoperatingincomeaggregated$755millionin2010,up66%from$455millionin2009.
Dilutednetoperatingearningspercommonsharein2010rose65%to$5.84from$3.54in2009.Net
operatingincomeanddilutednetoperatingearningspercommonsharewere$599millionand$5.39,
respectively,during2008.
Netoperatingincomeexpressedasarateofreturnonaveragetangibleassetswas1.17%in2010,
comparedwith.71%in2009and.97%in2008.Netoperatingreturnonaveragetangiblecommonequity
was18.95%in2010,comparedwith13.42%and19.63%in2009and2008,respectively.
ReconciliationsofGAAPamountswithcorrespondingnon-GAAPamountsarepresentedintable2.
42Table2
RECONCILIATIONOFGAAPTONON-GAAPMEASURES
201020092008
Incomestatementdata
Inthousands,exceptpershare
Netincome

Netincome...............................................................$736,161$379,891$555,887
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets(a)................................35,26539,00640,504
Merger-relatedgains(a).......................................................(16,730)(17,684)Š
Merger-relatedexpenses(a).....................................................46954,1632,160
Netoperatingincome.......................................................$755,165$455,376$598,551
Earningspercommonshare
Dilutedearningspercommonshare...............................................$5.69$2.89$5.01
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets(a).................................29.34.36
Merger-relatedgains(a).......................................................(.14)(.15)Š
Merger-relatedexpenses(a).....................................................Š.46.02
Dilutednetoperatingearningspercommonshare.....................................$5.84$3.54$5.39
Otherexpense
Otherexpense.............................................................$1,914,837$1,980,563$1,726,996

Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets..................................(58,103)(64,255)(66,646)
Merger-relatedexpenses.......................................................(771)(89,157)(3,547)
Noninterestoperatingexpense.................................................$1,855,963$1,827,151$1,656,803
Merger-relatedexpenses
Salariesandemployeebenefits...................................................$7$10,030$62
Equipmentandnetoccupancy...................................................442,97549
Printing,postageandsupplies...................................................743,677367
Othercostsofoperations......................................................64672,4753,069
Total.................................................................$771$89,157$3,547
Balancesheetdata
Inmillions

Averageassets
Averageassets.............................................................$68,380$67,472$65,132
Goodwill................................................................(3,525)(3,393)(3,193)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets.............................................(153)(191)(214)
Deferredtaxes.............................................................293330
Averagetangibleassets......................................................$64,731$63,921$61,755
Averagecommonequity
Averagetotalequity.........................................................$8,103$7,282$6,437
Preferredstock.............................................................(736)(666)(14)
Averagecommonequity.....................................................7,3676,6166,423
Goodwill................................................................(3,525)(3,393)(3,193)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets.............................................(153)(191)(214)
Deferredtaxes.............................................................293330
Averagetangiblecommonequity................................................$3,718$3,065$3,046
Atendofyear
Totalassets
Totalassets...............................................................$68,021$68,880$65,816
Goodwill................................................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,192)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets.............................................(126)(182)(183)
Deferredtaxes.............................................................233523
Totaltangibleassets........................................................$64,393$65,208$62,464
Totalcommonequity
Totalequity...............................................................$8,358$7,753$6,785

Preferredstock.............................................................(741)(730)(568)
UndeclareddividendsŠpreferredstock............................................(6)(6)Š
Commonequity,netofundeclaredpreferreddividends...................................7,6117,0176,217
Goodwill................................................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,192)
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets.............................................(126)(182)(183)

Deferredtaxes.............................................................233523
Totaltangiblecommonequity.................................................$3,983$3,345$2,865
(a)Afteranyrelatedtaxeffect.
43NetInterestIncome/LendingandFundingActivities
Reflectinga35basispointwideningofthenetinterestmargin,taxable-equivalentnetinterestincome

rose10%to$2.29billionin2010from$2.08billionin2009.TheCompany™snetinterestmargin
increasedto3.84%in2010from3.49%in2009,predominantlytheresultoflowerinterestratespaidon
depositsandborrowings.Averageearningassetswere$59.7billionin2010,comparedwith$59.6billion

in2009.Ascomparedwith2009,aslightincreaseinaverageoutstandingbalancesofloansandleaseswas
offsetbyadeclineinaverageoutstandingbalancesofinvestmentsecurities.
Averageloansandleaseswere$51.3billionin2010,up1%from$51.0billionin2009.Thefull-
yearimpactoftheloansobtainedintheProvidentandBradfordacquisitiontransactionswasoffsetby
sluggishborrowerdemandforcommercialloans.Averagecommercialloansandleasesdeclined6%to
$13.1billionin2010from$13.9billionin2009.Commercialrealestateloansaveraged$20.7billionin

2010,up3%from$20.1billionin2009.Averageresidentialrealestateloansincreased8%to$5.7billion
in2010from$5.3billionin2009,largelyduetotheimpactofadoptingthepreviouslynotednew
accountingrulesonJanuary1,2010.TheCompany™sconsumerloanportfolioaveraged$11.7billionin

eachof2010and2009.
Netinterestincomeexpressedonataxable-equivalentbasisaggregated$2.08billionin2009,up
6%from$1.96billionin2008,theresultofgrowthinaverageearningassetsandawideningofthe

Company™snetinterestmargin.Averageearningassetstotaled$59.6billionin2009,up3%from
$58.0billionin2008.Growthinaverageloanandleasebalancesoutstanding,whichrose4%to
$51.0billionin2009from$48.8billionin2008,waspartiallyoffsetbyadeclineinaverageinvestment

securities,whichdecreased6%to$8.4billionin2009from$9.0billionin2008.Thegrowthinaverage
loansin2009waspredominantlytheresultofloansobtainedintheProvidentandBradfordtransactions
of$4.0billiononMay23,2009and$302milliononAugust28,2009,respectively.Intotal,theacquired

loansconsistedofapproximately$700millionofcommercialloans,$1.8billionofcommercialrealestate
loans,$400millionofresidentialrealestateloansand$1.4billionofconsumerloans.Includingthe
impactofacquiredloanbalances,commercialloansandleasesaveraged$13.9billionin2009,upslightly

from$13.8billionin2008;averagecommercialrealestateloansincreased9%to$20.1billionin2009

from$18.4billionin2008;averageresidentialrealestateloansdeclined3%to$5.3billionin2009from
$5.5billionin2008;andconsumerloansaveraged$11.7billionin2009,5%higherthan$11.2billionin
2008.Theimprovementinthenetinterestmargin,whichwidened11basispointsto3.49%in2009from

3.38%in2008,waslargelytheresultoflowerinterestratespaidondepositsandborrowings.
4445Table3
AVERAGEBALANCESHEETSANDTAXABLE-EQUIVALENTRATES
Average
BalanceInterest
Average
RateAverage
BalanceInterest
Average
RateAverage
BalanceInterest
Average
RateAverage
BalanceInterest
Average
RateAverage
BalanceInterest
Average
Rate20102009200820072006
(Averagebalanceinmillions;interestinthousands)
AssetsEarningassets
Loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount(a)
Commercial,financial,etc......................................$13,092$521,7473.99%13,855524,6093.79%13,802723,8515.24%12,177871
,7437.16%11,319802,4517.09%
RealestateŠcommercial......................................20,714974,0474.7020,085894,6914.4518,4281,072,1785.8215,7481,157,156
7.3515,0961,104,5187.32
RealestateŠconsumer.......................................5,746303,2625.285,297288,4745.455,465329,5746.036,015384,1016.395,015
319,8586.38
Consumer..............................................11,745613,4795.2211,722636,0745.4311,150716,6786.4310,190757,8767.4410,00
3712,4847.12
Totalloansandleases,net....................................51,2972,412,5354.7050,9592,343,8484.6048,8452,842,2815.8244,1303,170
,8767.1941,4332,939,3117.09
Interest-bearingdepositsatbanks..................................10288.095034.07101091.0793003.36123723.01
Federalfundssoldandagreementstoresellsecurities.......................221446.2052129.251092,0711.9143223,8355.52815,5976.91
Tradingaccount............................................94789.8487640.74791,5461.95627441.20902,4462.71

Investmentsecurities(b)
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies.................................4,483191,6774.283,805182,1634.793,740181,0984.842,274100,6114.42
2,884121,6694.22
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions.........................26615,1075.6722113,1435.941369,2436.791198,6197.2315710,223
6.53Other.................................................3,269133,1764.074,377207,0694.735,097263,1045.164,925260,6615.294,995254,
1425.09
Totalinvestmentsecurities....................................8,018339,9604.248,403402,3754.798,973453,4455.057,318369,8915.058,
036386,0344.80
Totalearningassets
........................................59,7322,753,8184.6159,5512,747,0264.6158,0163,299,4525.6951,9513,565,6466.8649,6523,333
,7606.71
Allowanceforcreditlosses......................................(906)(864)(791)(677)(646)
Cashandduefrombanks.......................................1,0991,1211,2241,2711,346
Otherassets...............................................8,4557,6646,6836,0005,487
Totalassets.............................................$68,38067,47265,13258,54555,839
LiabilitiesandShareholders™Equity
Interest-bearingliabilities

Interest-bearingdeposits
NOWaccounts............................................$601850.145431,122.215022,894.584614,6381.014353,461.79
Savingsdeposits...........................................26,19085,226.3322,832112,550.4918,170248,0831.3714,985250,3131.6714,4
01201,5431.40
Timedeposits............................................6,583100,2411.528,782206,2202.359,583330,3893.4510,597496,3784.6812,420
551,5144.44
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice.................................9531,368.141,6652,391.143,98684,4832.124,185207,9904.973,610178,3
484.94
Totalinterest-bearingdeposits..................................34,327187,685.5533,822322,283.9532,241665,8492.0730,228959,3193.
1730,866934,8663.03
Short-termborrowings.........................................1,8543,006.162,9117,129.246,086142,6272.345,386274,0795.094,530227
,8505.03
Long-termborrowings.........................................9,169271,5782.9611,092340,0373.0711,605529,3194.568,428461,1785.476
,013333,8365.55
Totalinterest-bearingliabilities
.................................45,350462,2691.0247,825669,4491.4049,9321,337,7952.6844,0421,694,5763.8541,4091,496,5523.61
Noninterest-bearingdeposits.....................................13,70911,0547,6747,4007,555
Otherliabilities.............................................1,2181,3111,089856834
Totalliabilities............................................60,27760,19058,69552,29849,798
Shareholders™equity..........................................8,1037,2826,4376,2476,041
Totalliabilitiesandshareholders™equity.............................$68,38067,47265,13258,54555,839
Netinterestspread...........................................3.593.213.013.013.10
Contributionofinterest-freefunds...................................25.28.37.59.60
Netinterestincome/marginonearningassets...........................$2,291,5493.84%2,077,5773.49%1,961,6573.38%1,871,0703.60%1,83
7,2083.70%
(a)Includesnonaccrualloans.
(b)Includesavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesatamortizedcost.
46Table4summarizesaverageloansandleasesoutstandingin2010andpercentagechangesinthe
majorcomponentsoftheportfoliooverthepasttwoyears.
Table4
AVERAGELOANSANDLEASES
(Netofunearneddiscount)
20102009to20102008to2009
PercentIncrease
(Decrease)from
(Inmillions)
Commercial,financial,etc
.................................
$13,092(6)%Š%
RealestateŠcommercial
.................................
20,71439
RealestateŠconsumer..
.................................
5,7468(3)
ConsumerAutomobile...
.......................................
2,801(11)(11)
Homeequitylines....
.................................
5,845821
Homeequityloans...
.................................871
(13)(6)
Other..
............................................
2,22836
Totalconsumer....
.................................
11,745Š5
Total...
............................................
$51,2971%4%
Commercialloansandleases,excludingloanssecuredbyrealestate,aggregated$13.4billionat
December31,2010,representing26%oftotalloansandleases.Table5presentsinformationon
commercialloansandleasesasofDecember31,2010relatingtogeographicarea,size,borrowerindustry

andwhethertheloansaresecuredbycollateralorunsecured.Ofthe$13.4billionofcommercialloans
andleasesoutstandingattheendof2010,approximately$11.4billion,or85%,weresecured,while46%,
24%and18%weregrantedtobusinessesinNewYorkState,PennsylvaniaandtheMid-Atlanticarea

(whichincludesMaryland,Delaware,Virginia,WestVirginiaandtheDistrictofColumbia),respectively.
TheCompanyprovidesfinancingforleasestocommercialcustomers,primarilyforequipment.Commer-
cialleasesincludedintotalcommercialloansandleasesatDecember31,2010aggregated$1.4billion,of

which44%weresecuredbycollaterallocatedinNewYorkState,16%weresecuredbycollateralinthe
Mid-Atlanticareaandanother10%weresecuredbycollateralinPennsylvania.
47Table5
COMMERCIALLOANSANDLEASES,NETOFUNEARNEDDISCOUNT
(ExcludesLoansSecuredbyRealEstate)
December31,2010
NewYorkPennsylvaniaMid-AtlanticOtherTotalPercentofTotal
(Dollarsinmillions)
Manufacturing...
...............
$1,150$672$337$215$2,37418%
Services...
....................817371613187
1,98815
Automobiledealerships.
..........836457102399
1,79413
Wholesale..
....................66627130081
1,31810
Realestateinvestors
..............637136135599677
Transportation,communications,
utilities..
....................211248842828256
Publicadministration...
..........293239110837256
Financialandinsurance.
..........251173195726915
Healthservices...
...............40092105886855
Construction...................263197135236185
Retail
.........................25618875605794
Agriculture,forestry,fishing,
mining,etc....
...............75729241801
Other.........................337134163136475
Total
.........................
$6,192$3,250$2,363$1,586$13,391100%
Percentoftotal...
...............46%24%18%12%
100%Percentofdollarsoutstanding
Secured...
....................79%77%72%56%75%
Unsecured.
....................1119191715
Leases........................10492710
Total
.........................
100%100%100%100%100%
Percentofdollarsoutstandingbysize
ofloan
Lessthan$1million
..............30%24%33%14%27%
$1millionto$5million.
..........2730242828
$5millionto$10million
..........1518172617
$10millionto$20million
.........1515142116
$20millionto$30million
.........66946
$30millionto$50million
.........51374
$50millionto$70million
.........26ŠŠ2
Total
.........................
100%100%100%100%100%
Internationalloansincludedincommercialloansandleasestotaled$105millionand$55million
atDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.Theincreaseinsuchloanswasdueto$61millionofloans

atM&TBank™scommercialbranchinOntario,Canada,whichopenedinthesecondquarterof2010.The
CompanyparticipatesintheinsuranceandguaranteeprogramsoftheExport-ImportBankoftheUnited
States.TheseprogramsprovideU.S.governmentrepaymentcoverageof90%to100%onloans

supportingforeignborrowers™purchasesofU.S.goodsandservicesandcoverageof90%onloansto
U.S.exportersofgoodsandservicestoforeignbuyers.Theloansgenerallyrangeupto$10million.The
outstandingbalancesofloansunderthoseprogramsatDecember31,2010and2009were$32million

and$43million,respectively.
Loanssecuredbyrealestate,includingoutstandingbalancesofhomeequityloansandlinesof
creditwhichtheCompanyclassifiesasconsumerloans,representedapproximately65%oftheloanand

leaseportfolioduring2010,comparedwith62%in2009and60%in2008.AtDecember31,2010,the
Companyheldapproximately$21.2billionofcommercialrealestateloans,$5.9billionofconsumerreal
estateloanssecuredbyone-to-fourfamilyresidentialproperties(including$341millionofloansheldfor

sale)and$6.6billionofoutstandingbalancesofhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,comparedwith
$20.9billion,$5.5billionand$6.8billion,respectively,atDecember31,2009.Loansobtainedinthe2009
ProvidentandBradfordacquisitiontransactionsincluded$1.8billionofcommercialrealestateloans,

$400millionofconsumerrealestateloanssecuredbyone-to-fourfamilyresidentialpropertiesand
$1.1billionofoutstandinghomeequityloansandlinesofcredit.Includedintotalloansandleaseswere
amountsduefrombuildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestateaggregating$1.4billionand

$1.7billionatDecember31,2010and2009,respectively,ofwhich$1.35billionand$1.6billion,
respectively,wereclassifiedascommercialrealestateloans.
CommercialrealestateloansoriginatedbytheCompanyincludefixed-rateinstrumentswith
monthlypaymentsandaballoonpaymentoftheremainingunpaidprincipalatmaturity,inmanycases
fiveyearsafterorigination.Forborrowersingoodstanding,thetermsofsuchloansmaybeextendedby
thecustomerforanadditionalfiveyearsatthethencurrentmarketrateofinterest.TheCompanyalso

originatesfixed-ratecommercialrealestateloanswithmaturitiesofgreaterthanfiveyears,generally

havingoriginalmaturitytermsofapproximatelyseventotenyears,andadjustable-ratecommercialreal
estateloans.Excludingconstructionanddevelopmentloansmadetoinvestors,adjustable-ratecommer-
cialrealestateloansrepresentedapproximately51%ofthecommercialrealestateloanportfolioasof

December31,2010.Table6presentscommercialrealestateloansbygeographicarea,typeofcollateral
andsizeoftheloansoutstandingatDecember31,2010.NewYorkCitymetropolitanareacommercial
realestateloanstotaled$7.3billionatthe2010year-end.The$6.1billionofinvestor-ownedcommercial

realestateloansintheNewYorkCitymetropolitanareawerelargelysecuredbymultifamilyresidential
properties,retailspace,andofficespace.TheCompany™sexperiencehasbeenthatoffice,retailand
service-relatedpropertiestendtodemonstratemorevolatilefluctuationsinvaluethrougheconomic

cyclesandchangingeconomicconditionsthandomultifamilyresidentialproperties.Approximately49%
oftheaggregatedollaramountofNewYorkCity-arealoanswereforloanswithoutstandingbalancesof
$10millionorless,whileloansofmorethan$50millionmadeupapproximately14%ofthetotal.
48Table6
COMMERCIALREALESTATELOANS,NETOFUNEARNEDDISCOUNT
December31,2010
Metropolitan
NewYork
CityOtherNewYork
StatePennsylvania
Mid-AtlanticOtherTotal
Percentof
Total
(Dollarsinmillions)
Investor-owned
Permanentfinancebypropertytype
Retail..
..........................
$2,216$346$243$507$412$3,72417%
Office..
..........................984680246412150
2,47212
Apartments/Multifamily.
...............
1,2522521371532422,03610
Hotel............................59725125014362
1,3036
Industrial/Warehouse...
...............199151150166987644
Healthfacilities..
...................351756075373822
Other..
..........................2113960135134582
Totalpermanent...
...............
5,4941,8941,1461,5911,01411,13953%
Construction/Development
CommercialConstruction..
...................355283352888106
1,9849%
Land/Landdevelopment......
........1121655238414622
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
Construction..
...................100201082241125643
Land/Landdevelopment......
........6565714741137884
Totalconstruction/development...
....632384586
1,8243723,79818%
Totalinvestor-owned..
...................
6,1262,2781,7323,4151,38614,93771%
Owner-occupiedbyindustry(a)
Healthservices...
...................552345173370204
1,6448%
Otherservices...
...................1813742424137
1,2176
Retail..
..........................12119719518347003
Realestateinvestors...
...............11123787137125843
Manufacturing...
...................6820312011135052
Automobiledealerships.
...............3715212845794412
Wholesale......
...................4165126121193722
Other..
..........................111207197245237833
Totalowner-occupied......
........
1,2221,7801,2681,6253516,24629%
Totalcommercialrealestate.
...............
$7,348$4,058$3,000$5,040$1,737$21,183100%
Percentoftotal......
...................35%19%14%24%8%
100%Percentofdollarsoutstandingbysizeofloan
Lessthan$1million..
...................6%26%27%18%10%16%
$1millionto$5million
...................253835321931
$5millionto$10million...
...............181615181717
$10millionto$30million..
...............301520232724
$30millionto$50million..
...............7318176
$50millionto$100million..
...............10221105
Greaterthan$100million...
...............4ŠŠŠŠ1
Total..
..............................
100%100%100%100%100%100%
(a)Includesapproximately$450millionofconstructionloans.
CommercialrealestateloanssecuredbypropertieslocatedinotherpartsofNewYorkState,
PennsylvaniaandtheMid-Atlanticareatendtohaveagreaterdiversityofcollateraltypesandincludea
significantamountoflendingtocustomerswhousethemortgagedpropertyintheirtradeorbusiness
(owner-occupied).Approximately80%oftheaggregatedollaramountofcommercialrealestateloansin

NewYorkStatesecuredbypropertieslocatedoutsideofthemetropolitanNewYorkCityareawerefor
49loanswithoutstandingbalancesof$10millionorless.Oftheoutstandingbalancesofcommercialreal
estateloansinPennsylvaniaandtheMid-Atlanticarea,approximately77%and68%,respectively,were
forloanswithoutstandingbalancesof$10millionorless.
CommercialrealestateloanssecuredbypropertieslocatedoutsideofPennsylvania,theMid-
Atlanticarea,NewYorkStateandareasofstatesneighboringNewYorkconsideredtobepartoftheNew
YorkCitymetropolitanarea,comprised8%oftotalcommercialrealestateloansasofDecember31,
2010.Commercialrealestateconstructionanddevelopmentloansmadetoinvestorspresentedintable6
totaled$3.8billionatDecember31,2010,or7%oftotalloansandleases.Approximately96%ofthose
constructionloanshadadjustableinterestrates.IncludedinsuchloansatDecember31,2010were
$1.35billionofloanstodevelopersofresidentialrealestateproperties.Informationaboutthecredit
performanceoftheCompany™sloanstobuildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestatepropertiesis
includedhereinundertheheadingﬁProvisionForCreditLosses.ﬂTheremainderofthecommercialreal
estateconstructionloanportfoliowascomprisedofloansmadeforvariouspurposes,includingthe
constructionofofficebuildings,multifamilyresidentialhousing,retailspaceandothercommercial
development.
M&TRealtyCapitalCorporation,acommercialrealestatelendingsubsidiaryofM&TBank,
participatesintheFannieMaeDelegatedUnderwritingandServicing(ﬁDUSﬂ)program,pursuantto
whichcommercialrealestateloansareoriginatedinaccordancewithtermsandconditionsspecifiedby
FannieMaeandsold.Underthisprogram,loansaresoldwithpartialcreditrecoursetoM&TRealty
CapitalCorporation.Theamountofrecourseisgenerallylimitedtoone-thirdofanycreditlossincurred
bythepurchaseronanindividualloan,althoughinsomecasestherecourseamountislessthanone-
thirdoftheoutstandingprincipalbalance.AtDecember31,2010and2009,approximately$1.6billion
and$1.3billion,respectively,ofcommercialrealestateloanbalancesservicedforothershadbeensold
withrecourse.Therehavebeennomateriallossesincurredasaresultofthoserecoursearrangements.
CommercialrealestateloansheldforsaleatDecember31,2010and2009aggregated$204millionand
$123million,respectively.AtDecember31,2010and2009,commercialrealestateloansservicedfor
otherinvestorsbytheCompanywere$8.1billionand$7.1billion,respectively.Thoseservicedloansare
notincludedintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheet.
Realestateloanssecuredbyone-to-fourfamilyresidentialpropertieswere$5.9billionatDecem-
ber31,2010,includingapproximately39%securedbypropertieslocatedinNewYorkState,13%secured
bypropertieslocatedinPennsylvaniaand21%securedbypropertieslocatedintheMid-Atlanticarea.At
December31,2010,$341millionofresidentialrealestateloanswereheldforsale,comparedwith
$530millionatDecember31,2009.TheCompany™sportfolioofAlt-Aloansheldforinvestmentat
December31,2010totaled$648million,comparedwith$789millionatDecember31,2009.Loansto
individualstofinancetheconstructionofone-to-fourfamilyresidentialpropertiestotaled$71millionat
December31,2010,orapproximately.1%oftotalloansandleases,comparedwith$76millionor.1%at
December31,2009.InformationaboutthecreditperformanceoftheCompany™sAlt-Amortgageloans
andotherresidentialmortgageloansisincludedhereinundertheheadingﬁProvisionForCreditLosses.ﬂ
Consumerloanscomprisedapproximately23%oftheaverageloanportfolioduringeachof2010
and2009.Thetwolargestcomponentsoftheconsumerloanportfolioareoutstandingbalancesofhome
equitylinesofcreditandautomobileloans.Averagebalancesofhomeequitylinesofcreditoutstanding
representedapproximately11%ofaverageloansoutstandingineachof2010and2009.Automobileloans

representedapproximately5%and6%oftheCompany™saverageloanportfolioduring2010and2009,
respectively.Nootherconsumerloanproductrepresentedmorethan4%ofaverageloansoutstandingin
2010.Approximately44%ofhomeequitylinesofcreditoutstandingatDecember31,2010weresecured
bypropertiesinNewYorkState,and19%and35%weresecuredbypropertiesinPennsylvaniaandthe
Mid-Atlanticarea,respectively.Averageoutstandingbalancesonhomeequitylinesofcreditwere
approximately$5.8billionand$5.4billionin2010and2009,respectively.AtDecember31,2010,35%
and26%oftheautomobileloanportfolioweretocustomersresidinginNewYorkStateandPennsylva-
nia,respectively.Althoughautomobileloanshavegenerallybeenoriginatedthroughdealers,allapplica-
tionssubmittedthroughdealersaresubjecttotheCompany™snormalunderwritingandloanapproval
50procedures.Outstandingautomobileloanbalancesdeclinedto$2.7billionatDecember31,2010from
$2.9billionatDecember31,2009.
Table7presentsthecompositionoftheCompany™sloanandleaseportfolioattheendof2010,
includingoutstandingbalancestobusinessesandconsumersinNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,the
Mid-Atlanticareaandotherstates.Approximately47%oftotalloansandleasesatDecember31,2010

weretoNewYorkStatecustomers,while18%and23%weretoPennsylvaniaandtheMid-Atlanticarea
customers,respectively.
Table7
LOANSANDLEASES,NETOFUNEARNEDDISCOUNT
December31,2010
OutstandingsNewYork
StatePennsylvaniaMid-AtlanticOther
PercentofDollarsOutstanding
(Inmillions)
Realestate
Residential.
..........................$
5,92839%13%21%27%
Commercial
..........................
21,18354(a)14248
Totalrealestate
.....................
27,11151%14%23%12%
Commercial,financial,etc......
...........
11,98946%26%18%10%
ConsumerHomeequitylines
.....................
5,79644%19%35%2%
Homeequityloans
....................7611638424
Automobile
..........................
2,68535261524
Othersecuredorguaranteed..
...........
1,96635131240
Otherunsecured
......................2804429234
Totalconsumer
.....................
11,48839%21%26%14%
Totalloans.
......................
50,58846%19%23%12%
Commercialleases.
......................
1,40244%10%16%30%
Totalloansandleases....
...........
$51,99047%18%23%12%
(a)Includesloanssecuredbypropertieslocatedinneighboringstatesgenerallyconsideredtobewithincommuting
distanceofNewYorkCity.
Balancesofinvestmentsecuritiesaveraged$8.0billionin2010,comparedwith$8.4billionand
$9.0billionin2009and2008,respectively.Thedecreaseinsuchbalancesfrom2009to2010largely
reflectsmaturitiesandpaydownsofmortgage-backedsecurities,maturitiesoffederalagencynotesand

theimpactofadoptingthenewaccountingrulesonJanuary1,2010asalreadynoted,partiallyoffsetby
purchasesofmortgage-backedsecuritiesissuedbyFannieMaeandFreddieMacduringthefirsthalfof
2010,aggregatingapproximately$1.3billion.Thedeclineinaverageinvestmentsecuritiesbalancesduring

2009ascomparedwith2008largelyreflectspaydownsofmortgage-backedsecurities,partiallyoffsetby
theinvestmentsecuritiesobtainedintheProvidenttransactionandtheimpactofafirstquarter2009
residentialrealestateloansecuritization.TheCompanysecuritizedapproximately$141millionof

residentialrealestateloansinaguaranteedmortgagesecuritizationwithFannieMae.DuringJuneand
July2008,theCompanysecuritizedapproximately$875millionofresidentialrealestateloansin
guaranteedmortgagesecuritizationswithFannieMae.TheCompanyrecognizednogainorlossonthe

2009and2008securitizationsbecauseitretainedalloftheresultingsecurities.
51Theinvestmentsecuritiesportfolioislargelycomprisedofresidentialmortgage-backedsecurities
andCMOs,debtsecuritiesissuedbymunicipalities,capitalpreferredsecuritiesissuedbycertainfinancial
institutions,andshorter-termU.S.Treasuryandfederalagencynotes.Whenpurchasinginvestment
securities,theCompanyconsidersitsoverallinterest-rateriskprofileaswellastheadequacyofexpected

returnsrelativetorisksassumed,includingprepayments.Inmanagingtheinvestmentsecuritiesportfolio,
theCompanyoccasionallysellsinvestmentsecuritiesasaresultofchangesininterestratesandspreads,
actualoranticipatedprepayments,creditriskassociatedwithaparticularsecurity,orasaresultof

restructuringitsinvestmentsecuritiesportfoliofollowingcompletionofabusinesscombination.
Duringthethirdquarterof2008,theCompanypurchaseda$142millionAAA-ratedprivate
placementmortgage-backedsecuritythathadbeensecuritizedbyBayviewFinancialHoldings,L.P.
(togetherwithitsaffiliates,ﬁBayviewFinancialﬂ).BayviewFinancialisaprivately-heldcompanyandis
themajorityinvestorofBayviewLendingGroup,LLC(ﬁBLGﬂ),acommercialmortgagelenderinwhich
M&Tinvested$300millionduring2007.Uponpurchase,themortgage-backedsecuritywasplacedinthe

Company™sheld-to-maturityportfolio,asmanagementdeterminedthatithadtheintentandabilityto
holdthesecuritytomaturity.Managementsubsequentlyreconsideredwhethercertainothersimilar
mortgage-backedsecuritiespreviouslypurchasedfromBayviewFinancialandheldintheCompany™s

available-for-saleportfolioshouldmoreappropriatelybeintheheld-to-maturityportfolio.Concluding
thatithadtheintentandabilitytoholdthosesecuritiestomaturityaswell,theCompanytransferred
CMOshavingafairvalueof$298millionandacostbasisof$385millionfromitsavailable-for-sale

investmentsecuritiesportfoliototheheld-to-maturityportfolioduringthethirdquarterof2008.
TheCompanyregularlyreviewsitsinvestmentsecuritiesfordeclinesinvaluebelowamortizedcost
thatmightbecharacterizedasﬁotherthantemporary.ﬂOther-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesof

$86million(pre-tax)wererecognizedduring2010.Approximately$68millionofthosechargesrelatedto
privatelyissuedCMOsbackedbyresidentialandcommercialrealestateloans,$6millionrelatedto
CDOsbackedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutionsand$12millionrelatedto

AmericanDepositaryShares(ﬁADSsﬂ)ofAIB.TheAIBADSswereobtainedinthe2003acquisitionofa
subsidiaryofAIBandareheldtosatisfyoptionstopurchasesuchsharesgrantedbythatsubsidiaryto
certainemployees.Factorscontributingtotheimpairmentchargeincludedmountingcreditandother

lossesincurredbyAIB,theissuanceofAIBcommonstockinlieuofdividendpaymentsoncertain
preferredstockissuancesheldbytheIrishgovernmentresultinginsignificantdilutionofAIBcommon
shareholders,andpublicannouncementsbyIrishgovernmentofficialssuggestingthatincreasedgovern-

mentsupport,whichcouldfurtherdiluteAIBcommonshareholders,maybenecessary.Other-than-tem-
poraryimpairmentchargesof$138million(pre-tax)wererecognizedduring2009relatedtocertain
privatelyissuedCMOsandCDOsheldintheCompany™savailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesportfolio.

Specifically,$130millionofsuchimpairmentchargesrelatedtoprivatelyissuedCMOsandCDOsbacked
byresidentialrealestateloansand$8millionrelatedtoCDOsbackedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesof
financialinstitutions.Duringthethirdquarterof2008,theCompanyrecognizedanother-than-tem-

poraryimpairmentchargeof$153millionrelatedtoitsholdingsofpreferredstockofFannieMaeand
FreddieMac.Additionalother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesof$29millionwererecognizedin
2008onCMOsbackedbyoptionadjustablerateresidentialmortgageloans(ﬁARMsﬂ)andCDOsbacked

bytrustpreferredsecuritiesoffinancialinstitutions.Pooreconomicconditions,highunemploymentand
depressedrealestatevaluesaresignificantfactorscontributingtotherecognitionoftheother-than-tem-
poraryimpairmentchargesrelatedtoCMOsandCDOs.Basedonmanagement™sassessmentoffuture

cashflowsassociatedwithindividualinvestmentsecurities,asofDecember31,2010,theCompany
concludedthattheremainingdeclinesassociatedwiththerestoftheinvestmentsecuritiesportfoliowere
temporaryinnature.Afurtherdiscussionoffairvaluesofinvestmentsecuritiesisincludedhereinunder

theheadingﬁCapital.ﬂAdditionalinformationabouttheinvestmentsecuritiesportfolioisincludedin
notes3and20ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Otherearningassetsincludeinterest-earningdepositsattheFederalReserveBankofNewYork
andotherbanks,tradingaccountassets,federalfundssoldandagreementstoresellsecurities.Those
otherearningassetsintheaggregateaveraged$417millionin2010,$189millionin2009and$198million
in2008.Reflectedinthosebalanceswerepurchasesofinvestmentsecuritiesunderagreementstoresell,

whichaveraged$214million,$41millionand$96millionduring2010,2009and2008,respectively.The
52higherlevelofresellagreementsin2010ascomparedwith2009and2008wasdue,inpart,totheneed
tofulfillcollateralrequirementsassociatedwithcertainmunicipaldeposits.Agreementstoresell

securities,ofwhichtherewerenoneoutstandingatthe2010and2009year-ends,areaccountedfor
similartocollateralizedloans,withchangesinmarketvalueofthecollateralmonitoredbytheCompany
toensuresufficientcoverage.Theamountsofinvestmentsecuritiesandotherearningassetsheldbythe

Companyareinfluencedbysuchfactorsasdemandforloans,whichgenerallyyieldmorethaninvestment
securitiesandotherearningassets,ongoingrepayments,thelevelsofdeposits,andmanagementof
balancesheetsizeandresultingcapitalratios.
ThemostsignificantsourceoffundingfortheCompanyiscoredeposits.During2010andprior
years,theCompanyconsiderednoninterest-bearingdeposits,interest-bearingtransactionaccounts,
savingsdepositsanddomestictimedepositsunder$100,000ascoredeposits.TheCompany™sbranch

networkisitsprincipalsourceofcoredeposits,whichgenerallycarrylowerinterestratesthanwholesale
fundsofcomparablematurities.Certificatesofdepositunder$100,000generatedonanationwidebasis
byM&TBank,N.A.werealsoincludedincoredeposits.Averagecoredepositstotaled$43.6billionin

2010,upfrom$39.1billionin2009and$31.7billionin2008.TheKBankacquisitiontransactionadded
$491millionofcoredepositsonNovember5,2010,whiletheacquisitiontransactionsin2009added
$3.8billionofcoredepositsontherespectiveacquisitiondates.AveragecoredepositsofM&TBank,

N.A.were$217millionin2010,$337millionin2009and$274millionin2008.Excludingdeposits
obtainedintheacquisitiontransactions,thegrowthincoredepositsfrom2008to2009andfrom2009to
2010wasdue,inpart,tothelackofattractivealternativeinvestmentsavailabletotheCompany™s

customersresultingfromlowerinterestratesandfromtheeconomicenvironmentintheU.S.Thelow
interestrateenvironmenthasresultedinashiftincustomersavingstrends,asaveragetimedepositshave
continuedtodecline,whileaveragenoninterest-bearingdepositsandsavingsdepositshaveincreased.

Fundingprovidedbycoredepositsrepresented73%ofaverageearningassetsin2010,comparedwith
66%and55%in2009and2008,respectively.Table8summarizesaveragecoredepositsin2010and
percentagechangesinthecomponentsofsuchdepositsoverthepasttwoyears.
Table8
AVERAGECOREDEPOSITS
20102009to20102008to2009
PercentageIncrease
(Decrease)from
(Inmillions)
NOWaccounts..
.......................................$58110%6%
Savingsdeposits.
.......................................
25,0271323
Timedepositsunder$100,000..
............................
4,278(21)(4)
Noninterest-bearingdeposits...
............................
13,7092444
Total...
............................................
$43,59512%23%
AprovisionoftheDodd-FrankActpermanentlyincreasedthemaximumamountofFDICdeposit
insuranceforfinancialinstitutionsto$250,000perdepositor.Thatmaximumwas$100,000perdepositor

until2009,whenitwasraisedto$250,000temporarilythroughDecember31,2013.Asaresultofthe
permanentlyincreaseddepositinsurancecoverage,effectiveDecember31,2010theCompanyconsiders
timedepositsunder$250,000ascoredeposits.Thatchangeadded$1.0billiontocoredeposits,which

aggregated$45.9billionatDecember31,2010,butdidnothaveaneffectonaveragecoredepositsfor
2010.Aspreviouslydefined,coredepositstotaled$43.1billionatDecember31,2009.
AdditionalfundingsourcesfortheCompanyincludeddomestictimedepositsof$100,000or
more,depositsoriginatedthroughtheCompany™sCaymanIslandsbranchoffice,andbrokereddeposits.
Domestictimedepositsover$100,000,excludingbrokeredcertificatesofdeposit,averaged$1.7billionin
2010,comparedwith$2.6billionineachof2009and2008.CaymanIslandsbranchdeposits,primarily

comprisedofaccountswithbalancesof$100,000ormore,averaged$1.0billionin2010,$1.7billionin
532009and$4.0billionin2008.Averagebrokeredtimedepositstotaled$642millionin2010,compared
with$822millionin2009and$1.4billionin2008,andatDecember31,2010and2009totaled
$485millionand$868million,respectively.TheCompanyalsohadbrokeredNOWandbrokeredmoney-
marketdepositaccounts,whichintheaggregateaveraged$1.2billion,$757millionand$218millionin

2010,2009and2008,respectively.Thesignificantincreasesinsuchaveragebrokereddepositbalances
since2008reflectcontinueduncertaineconomicmarketsandthedesireofbrokeragefirmstoearn
reasonableyieldswhileensuringthatcustomerdepositswerefullyinsured.CaymanIslandsbranch

depositsandbrokereddepositshavebeenusedbytheCompanyasalternativestoshort-termborrowings.
AdditionalamountsofCaymanIslandsbranchdepositsorbrokereddepositsmaybeaddedinthefuture
dependingonmarketconditions,includingdemandbycustomersandotherinvestorsforthosedeposits,

andthecostoffundsavailablefromalternativesourcesatthetime.
TheCompanyalsousesborrowingsfrombanks,securitiesdealers,variousFederalHomeLoan
Banks,theFederalReserveandothersassourcesoffunding.Averageshort-termborrowingswere

$1.9billionin2010,$2.9billionin2009and$6.1billionin2008.Includedinshort-termborrowings
wereunsecuredfederalfundsborrowings,whichgenerallymatureonthenextbusinessday,which
averaged$1.7billion,$1.8billionand$4.5billionin2010,2009and2008,respectively.Overnightfederal

fundsborrowingsrepresentedthelargestcomponentofaverageshort-termborrowingsandwereobtained
fromawidevarietyofbanksandotherfinancialinstitutions.Overnightfederalfundsborrowingstotaled
$826millionatDecember31,2010and$2.1billionatDecember31,2009.Averageshort-term

borrowingsduring2010,2009and2008included$31million,$688millionand$682million,respec-
tively,ofborrowingsfromtheFederalHomeLoanBank(ﬁFHLBﬂ)ofNewYorkandtheFHLBof
Atlanta.Alsoincludedinaverageshort-termborrowingsin2009and2008weresecuredborrowingswith

theFederalReservethroughtheirTermAuctionFacility(ﬁTAFﬂ).BorrowingsundertheTAFaveraged
$268millionand$238millionduring2009and2008,respectively.Therewerenooutstandingborrowings
undertheTAFateitherDecember31,2010or2009.Theneedforshort-termborrowingsfromthe

FHLBsandtheFederalReserveBankofNewYorkhasdiminishedwiththecontinuedgrowthinthe
Company™scoredeposits.Alsoincludedinaverageshort-termborrowingsin2008wasa$500million
revolvingasset-backedstructuredborrowingsecuredbyautomobileloansthatwaspaidoffduringlate-

2008.Theaveragebalanceofthatborrowingwas$463millionin2008.
Long-termborrowingsaveraged$9.2billionin2010,$11.1billionin2009and$11.6billionin
2008.Includedinaveragelong-termborrowingswereamountsborrowedfromFHLBsof$4.2billionin

2010,$6.1billionin2009and$6.7billionin2008,andsubordinatedcapitalnotesof$1.8billionin2010
and$1.9billionineachof2009and2008.TheCompanyhasutilizedinterestrateswapagreementsto
modifytherepricingcharacteristicsofcertaincomponentsoflong-termdebt.AsofDecember31,2010,

swapagreementswereusedtohedgeapproximately$900millionoffixedratesubordinatednotes.
Furtherinformationoninterestrateswapagreementsisprovidedinnote18ofNotestoFinancial
Statements.Juniorsubordinateddebenturesassociatedwithtrustpreferredsecuritiesthatwereincluded

inaveragelong-termborrowingswere$1.2billionin2010and$1.1billionineachof2009and2008.
Additionalinformationregardingjuniorsubordinateddebentures,aswellasinformationregarding
contractualmaturitiesoflong-termborrowings,isprovidedinnote9ofNotestoFinancialStatements.

Alsoincludedinlong-termborrowingswereagreementstorepurchasesecurities,whichaveraged
$1.6billionduring2010,2009and2008.Theagreements,whichwereenteredintoduetofavorablerates
available,havevariousrepurchasedatesthrough2017,however,thecontractualmaturitiesofthe

underlyingsecuritiesextendbeyondsuchrepurchasedates.
ChangesinthecompositionoftheCompany™searningassetsandinterest-bearingliabilitiesas
discussedherein,aswellaschangesininterestratesandspreads,canimpactnetinterestincome.Net

interestspread,orthedifferencebetweenthetaxable-equivalentyieldonearningassetsandtheratepaid
oninterest-bearingliabilities,was3.59%in2010,comparedwith3.21%in2009.Theyieldonthe
Company™searningassetswas4.61%ineachof2010and2009,whiletheratepaidoninterest-bearing

liabilitiesdeclined38basispointsto1.02%in2010from1.40%in2009.Theyieldonearningassets
during2009was108basispointslowerthan5.69%in2008,whiletheratepaidoninterest-bearing
liabilitiesdecreased128basispointsfrom2.68%in2008.Theimprovementinspreadin2010as

comparedwith2009wasduepredominantlytoloweraverageratespaidondeposits.Theimprovement
54inspreadfrom2008to2009reflectedlowerratespaidondepositsandborrowings.Thoselowerrates
reflectedtheimpactofthesluggisheconomyandtheFederalReserve™smonetarypoliciesonbothshort-

termandlong-terminterestrates.Inaddition,theFederalOpenMarketCommitteenotedinDecember
2010thateconomicconditions,includinglowratesofresourceutilization,subduedinflationtrends,and
stableinflationexpectations,werelikelytowarrantexceptionallylowlevelsforthefederalfundsratefor

anextendedperiodoftime.AtDecember31,2010and2009,theFederalReserve™stargetrangeforthe

overnightfederalfundsratewas0%to.25%.
Netinterest-freefundsconsistlargelyofnoninterest-bearingdemanddepositsandshareholders™
equity,partiallyoffsetbybankownedlifeinsuranceandnon-earningassets,includinggoodwillandcore

depositandotherintangibleassets.Netinterest-freefundsaveraged$14.4billionin2010,comparedwith

$11.7billionin2009and$8.1billionin2008.Thesignificantincreasesinaveragenetinterest-freefunds
in2010and2009werelargelytheresultofhigherbalancesofnoninterest-bearingdeposits,which
averaged$13.7billionin2010,$11.1billionin2009,and$7.7billionin2008.Inconnectionwiththe

ProvidentandBradfordtransactions,theCompanyaddednoninterest-bearingdepositstotaling

$946millionattherespective2009acquisitiondates.Goodwillandcoredepositandotherintangible
assetsaveraged$3.7billionin2010,$3.6billionin2009,and$3.4billionin2008.Thecashsurrender
valueofbankownedlifeinsuranceaveraged$1.5billionin2010,$1.4billionin2009and$1.2billionin

2008.Increasesinthecashsurrendervalueofbankownedlifeinsurancearenotincludedininterest

income,butratherarerecordedinﬁotherrevenuesfromoperations.ﬂThecontributionofnetinterest-
freefundstonetinterestmarginwas.25%in2010,.28%in2009and.37%in2008.Thedeclineinthe
contributiontonetinterestmarginascribedtonetinterest-freefundsin2010ascomparedwith2009

andin2009ascomparedwith2008resultedlargelyfromtheimpactoflowerinterestratesoninterest-
bearingliabilitiesusedtovaluesuchcontribution.
Reflectingthechangestothenetinterestspreadandthecontributionofinterest-freefundsas
describedherein,theCompany™snetinterestmarginwas3.84%in2010,comparedwith3.49%in2009

and3.38%in2008.Futurechangesinmarketinterestratesorspreads,aswellaschangesinthe
compositionoftheCompany™sportfoliosofearningassetsandinterest-bearingliabilitiesthatresultin
reductionsinspreads,couldadverselyimpacttheCompany™snetinterestincomeandnetinterestmargin.
Managementassessesthepotentialimpactoffuturechangesininterestratesandspreadsby
projectingnetinterestincomeunderseveralinterestratescenarios.Inmanaginginterestraterisk,the
Companyhasutilizedinterestrateswapagreementstomodifytherepricingcharacteristicsofcertain
portionsofitsportfoliosofearningassetsandinterest-bearingliabilities.Periodicsettlementamounts

arisingfromtheseagreementsaregenerallyreflectedineithertheyieldsearnedonassetsortheratespaid

oninterest-bearingliabilities.Thenotionalamountofinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintofor
interestrateriskmanagementpurposeswas$900millionand$1.1billionatDecember31,2010and
2009,respectively.Underthetermsofthoseswapagreements,theCompanyreceivedpaymentsbasedon

theoutstandingnotionalamountoftheagreementsatfixedratesandmadepaymentsatvariablerates.

Thoseswapagreementsweredesignatedasfairvaluehedgesofcertainfixedratelong-termborrowings
and,toalesserextentatDecember31,2009,certainfixedratetimedeposits.Therewerenointerestrate
swapagreementsdesignatedascashflowhedgesatthoserespectivedates.
Inafairvaluehedge,thefairvalueofthederivative(theinterestrateswapagreement)and
changesinthefairvalueofthehedgeditemarerecordedintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheet
withthecorrespondinggainorlossrecognizedincurrentearnings.Thedifferencebetweenchangesin

thefairvalueoftheinterestrateswapagreementsandthehedgeditemsrepresentshedgeineffectiveness

andisrecordedinﬁotherrevenuesfromoperationsﬂintheCompany™sconsolidatedstatementofincome.
Inacashflowhedge,unlikeinafairvaluehedge,theeffectiveportionofthederivative™sgainorlossis
initiallyreportedasacomponentofothercomprehensiveincomeandsubsequentlyreclassifiedinto

earningswhentheforecastedtransactionaffectsearnings.Theineffectiveportionofthegainorlossis

reportedinﬁotherrevenuesfromoperationsﬂimmediately.Theamountsofhedgeineffectiveness
recognizedin2010,2009and2008werenotmaterialtotheCompany™sresultsofoperations.The
estimatedaggregatefairvalueofinterestrateswapagreementsdesignatedasfairvaluehedgesrepresented

gainsofapproximately$97millionatDecember31,2010and$54millionatDecember31,2009.Thefair

valuesofsuchswapagreementsweresubstantiallyoffsetbychangesinthefairvaluesofthehedged
55items.Thechangesinthefairvaluesoftheinterestrateswapagreementsandthehedgeditemsprimarily
resultfromtheeffectsofchanginginterestratesandspreads.TheCompany™screditexposureasof

December31,2010withrespecttotheestimatedfairvalueofinterestrateswapagreementsusedfor

managinginterestrateriskhasbeensubstantiallymitigatedthroughmasternettingarrangementswith

tradingaccountinterestratecontractswiththesamecounterpartyaswellascounterpartypostingsof

$55millionofcollateralwiththeCompany.Additionalinformationaboutswapagreementsandtheitems

beinghedgedisincludedinnote18ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Theaveragenotionalamountsof
interestrateswapagreementsenteredintoforinterestrateriskmanagementpurposes,therelatedeffect
onnetinterestincomeandmargin,andtheweighted-averageinterestratespaidorreceivedonthose

swapagreementsarepresentedintable9.
Table9
INTERESTRATESWAPAGREEMENTS
AmountRate(a)AmountRate(a)AmountRate(a)
201020092008
YearEndedDecember31
(Dollarsinthousands)
Increase(decrease)in:
Interestincome..
...............$ŠŠ%$ŠŠ%$ŠŠ%
Interestexpense..
...............
(41,885)(.09)(38,208)(.08)(15,857)(.03)
Netinterestincome/margin
........$
41,885.07%$38,208.07%$15,857.03%
Averagenotionalamount.
..........
$1,012,786$1,079,625$1,269,017
Ratereceived(b)...
...............
6.27%6.32%6.12%
Ratepaid(b).
....................
2.14%2.78%4.87%
(a)Computedasapercentageofaverageearningassetsorinterest-bearingliabilities.
(b)Weighted-averageratepaidorreceivedoninterestrateswapagreementsineffectduringyear.
ProvisionforCreditLosses
TheCompanymaintainsanallowanceforcreditlossesthatinmanagement™sjudgmentisadequateto
absorblossesinherentintheloanandleaseportfolio.Aprovisionforcreditlossesisrecordedtoadjust
theleveloftheallowanceasdeemednecessarybymanagement.Theprovisionforcreditlosseswas

$368millionin2010,comparedwith$604millionin2009and$412millionin2008.Netloancharge-

offsaggregated$346millionin2010,$514millionin2009and$383millionin2008.Netloancharge-

offsasapercentageofaverageloansoutstandingwere.67%in2010,comparedwith1.01%in2009and

.78%in2008.WhiletheCompanyexperiencedimprovementinitscreditqualitymetricsduring2010,

thelevelsoftheprovisionsubsequentto2007havebeenhigherthanhistoricallevels,reflectinga

pronounceddownturnintheU.S.economyandsignificantdeteriorationintheresidentialrealestate

marketthatbeganinearly-2007.Decliningrealestatevaluationsandhighlevelsofdelinquenciesand
charge-offssignificantlyaffectedthequalityoftheCompany™sresidentialrealestate-relatedloanportfo-
lios.Specifically,theCompany™sAlt-Aresidentialrealestateloanportfolioanditsresidentialrealestate

builderanddeveloperloanportfolioexperiencedthemajorityofthecreditproblemsrelatedtothe

turmoilintheresidentialrealestatemarketplace.TheCompanyalsoexperiencedhigherlevelsof

commercialandconsumerloancharge-offsoverthepastthreeyearsdueto,amongotherthings,higher

unemploymentlevelsandtherecessionaryeconomy.AsummaryoftheCompany™sloancharge-offs,

provisionandallowanceforcreditlossesispresentedintable10andinnote5ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.56Table10
LOANCHARGE-OFFS,PROVISIONANDALLOWANCEFORCREDITLOSSES
20102009200820072006
(Dollarsinthousands)
Allowanceforcreditlossesbeginningbalance...$878,022$787,904$759,439$649,948$637,663
Charge-offsduringyear
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc..
........
91,650180,119102,09232,20623,949
RealestateŠconstruction...
.............
86,603127,728105,9403,830Š
RealestateŠmortgage.....
.............
108,50095,10973,48523,5526,406
Consumer....
........................
125,593153,506139,13886,71065,251
Totalcharge-offs........
.............
412,346556,462420,655146,29895,606
Recoveriesduringyear
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc..
........
26,6217,9998,5878,3664,119
RealestateŠconstruction...
.............
4,9752,623369ŠŠ
RealestateŠmortgage.....
.............
10,9546,9174,0691,9341,784
Consumer....
........................
23,96325,04124,62022,24321,988
Totalrecoveries
......................
66,51342,58037,64532,54327,891
Netcharge-offs..
........................
345,833513,882383,010113,75567,715
Provisionforcreditlosses.....
.............
368,000604,000412,000192,00080,000
Allowanceforcreditlossesacquiredduringthe
year.................................ŠŠŠ
32,668Š
Allowancerelatedtoloanssoldorsecuritized...ŠŠ(525)(1,422)Š

Consolidationofloansecuritizationtrusts
......
2,752ŠŠŠŠ
Allowanceforcreditlossesendingbalance
......
$902,941$878,022$787,904$759,439$649,948
Netcharge-offsasapercentof:
Provisionforcreditlosses...
.............
93.98%85.08%92.96%59.25%84.64%
Averageloansandleases,netofunearned
discount...
........................
.67%1.01%.78%.26%.16%
Allowanceforcreditlossesasapercentofloans
andleases,netofunearneddiscount,atyear-

end:Legacyloans..
........................
1.82%1.83%1.61%1.58%1.51%
Totalloans...
........................
1.74%1.69%1.61%1.58%1.51%
Loansacquiredinconnectionwiththe2010and2009acquisitiontransactionswererecordedat
fairvaluewithnocarry-overofanypreviouslyrecordedallowanceforcreditlosses.Determiningthefair

valueoftheacquiredloansrequiredestimatingcashflowsexpectedtobecollectedontheloansand
discountingthosecashflowsatcurrentinterestrates.Theexcessofcashflowsexpectedatacquisition
overtheestimatedfairvalueisrecognizedasinterestincomeovertheremaininglivesoftheloans.The

differencebetweencontractuallyrequiredpaymentsatacquisitionandthecashflowsexpectedtobe
collectedatacquisitionreflectsestimatedfuturecreditlossesandothercontractuallyrequiredpayments
thattheCompanydoesnotexpecttocollect.TheCompanyregularlyevaluatesthereasonablenessofits

cashflowprojections.AnydecreasestotheexpectedcashflowsrequiretheCompanytoevaluatetheneed
foranadditionalallowanceforcreditlossesandcouldleadtocharge-offsofacquiredloanbalances.Any
significantincreasesinexpectedcashflowsresultinadditionalinterestincometoberecognizedoverthe

then-remaininglivesoftheloans.
57Nonaccrualloanstotaled$1.24billionor2.38%ofoutstandingloansandleasesatDecember31,
2010,comparedwith$1.33billionor2.56%atDecember31,2009and$755millionor1.54%at

December31,2008.Thedeclineinnonaccrualloansattheendof2010ascomparedwithDecember31,
2009waslargelyattributabletotheimpactofcharge-offs,individuallysignificantpaymentsmadein2010
byaborrowerthatoperatesretirementcommunitiesandbyaborrowerthatisaconsumerfinanceand

creditinsurancecompany,andthetransfertorealestateandotherforeclosedassetsof$98millionof
collateralrelatedtoacommercialrealestateloanthatwasplacedinnonaccrualstatusduringthefourth
quarterof2009.Thosereductionswerepartiallyoffsetbyadditionalloansbeingtransferredtononaccrual

status.Inparticular,inthefourthquarterof2010suchtransfersincludedan$80millionrelationship
witharesidentialbuilderanddeveloperand$66millionofcommercialconstructionloanstoanowner/
operatorofretirementandassistedlivingfacilities.Majorfactorscontributingtotheriseinnonaccrual

loansfromDecember31,2008tothe2009year-endwerea$209millionincreaseincommercialloans
andleasesanda$319millionincreaseincommercialrealestateloans,includinga$113millionrisein
loanstobuildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestate.Thecontinuingturbulenceintheresidential

realestatemarketplacehasresultedindepressedrealestatevaluesandhighlevelsofdelinquencies,both
forloanstoconsumersandloanstobuildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestate.Thesluggish
U.S.economyhasresultedingenerallyhigherlevelsofnonaccrualloansthanhistoricallyexperiencedby

theCompany.
Accruingloanspastdue90daysormorewere$270millionor.52%oftotalloansandleasesat
December31,2010,comparedwith$208millionor.40%atDecember31,2009and$159millionor

.32%atDecember31,2008.Thoseloansincludedloansguaranteedbygovernment-relatedentitiesof
$214million,$193millionand$114millionatDecember31,2010,2009and2008,respectively.Such
guaranteedloansincludedone-to-fourfamilyresidentialmortgageloansservicedbytheCompanythat

wererepurchasedtoreduceassociatedservicingcosts,includingarequirementtoadvanceprincipaland
interestpaymentsthathadnotbeenreceivedfromindividualmortgagors.Despitetheloansbeing
purchasedbytheCompany,theinsuranceorguaranteebytheapplicablegovernment-relatedentity

remainsinforce.Theoutstandingprincipalbalancesoftherepurchasedloansarefullyguaranteedby

government-relatedentitiesandtotaled$191millionatDecember31,2010,$176millionatDecember31,
2009and$108millionatDecember31,2008.Loanspastdue90daysormoreandaccruinginterestthat
wereguaranteedbygovernment-relatedentitiesalsoincludedforeigncommercialandindustrialloans

supportedbytheExport-ImportBankoftheUnitedStatesthattotaled$11millionatDecember31,
2010,$13millionatDecember31,2009and$5millionatDecember31,2008.Asummaryof
nonperformingassetsandcertainpastdue,renegotiatedandimpairedloandataandcreditqualityratios

ispresentedintable11.
5859Table11
NONPERFORMINGASSETANDPASTDUE,RENEGOTIATEDANDIMPAIREDLOANDATA
December3120102009200820072006
(Dollarsinthousands)
Nonaccrualloans...
...................
$1,239,194$1,331,702$755,397$431,282$209,272
Realestateandotherforeclosedassets..
....220,04994,60499,61740,17512,141
Totalnonperformingassets
..............
$1,459,243$1,426,306$855,014$471,457$221,413
Accruingloanspastdue90daysormore(a)..$269,593$208,080$158,991$77,319$111,307

Renegotiatedloans..
...................$
233,342$212,548$91,575$15,884$14,956
Governmentguaranteedloansincludedin
totalsabove:
Nonaccrualloans.
...................$
56,787$38,579$32,506$19,125$17,586
Accruingloanspastdue90daysormore..214,111193,495114,18372,70576,622
Purchasedimpairedloans(b):
Outstandingcustomerbalance
..........$
219,477$172,772ŠŠŠ
Carryingamount.
...................
97,01988,170ŠŠŠ
Nonaccrualloanstototalloansandleases,
netofunearneddiscount
..............
2.38%2.56%1.54%.90%.49%
Nonperformingassetstototalnetloansand
leasesandrealestateandotherforeclosed

assets...
..........................
2.79%2.74%1.74%.98%.52%
Accruingloanspastdue90daysormoreto
totalloansandleases,netofunearned

discount
..........................
.52%.40%.32%.16%.26%
(a)Predominatelyresidentialmortgageloans.
(b)Accruingloansthatwereimpairedatacquisitiondateandrecordedatfairvalue.
Loansobtainedinthe2010and2009acquisitiontransactionsthatwereimpairedatthedateof
acquisitionwererecordedatestimatedfairvalueandaregenerallydelinquentinpayments,but,in
accordancewithGAAPtheCompanycontinuestoaccrueinterestincomeonsuchloansbasedonthe
estimatedexpectedcashflowsassociatedwiththeloans.Thecarryingamountofsuchloanswas

$97millionatDecember31,2010,orapproximately.2%oftotalloans.
Inanefforttoassistborrowers,theCompanymodifiedthetermsofselectloanssecuredby
residentialrealestate,largelyfromtheCompany™sportfolioofAlt-Aloans.Includedinloansoutstanding

atDecember31,2010were$308millionofsuchmodifiedloans,ofwhich$117millionwereclassifiedas
nonaccrual.Theremainingmodifiedloanshavedemonstratedpaymentcapabilityconsistentwiththe
modifiedtermsand,accordingly,wereclassifiedasrenegotiatedloansandwereaccruinginterestatthe

2010year-end.Loanmodificationsincludedsuchactionsastheextensionofloanmaturitydates
(generallyfromthirtytofortyyears)andtheloweringofinterestratesandmonthlypayments.The
objectiveofthemodificationswastoincreaseloanrepaymentsbycustomersandtherebyreducenet

charge-offs.InaccordancewithGAAP,themodifiedloansareincludedinimpairedloansforpurposesof
determiningtheleveloftheallowanceforcreditlosses.Modifiedresidentialrealestateloanstotaled
$292millionatDecember31,2009,ofwhich$108millionwereinnonaccrualstatus.TheCompanyhas

notgenerallygrantedloanmodificationsthatinvolvedareductionofloanprincipalbalance.
Netcharge-offsofcommercialloansandleasestotaled$65millionin2010,$172millionin2009
and$94millionin2008.Thehighercharge-offsexperiencedduring2009werelargelytheresultofafew

individuallysignificantcharge-offsinthatyear,includinga$45millionpartialcharge-offofanunsecured
loantoasinglecustomerinthecommercialrealestatesectoranda$42millionpartialcharge-offofa
relationshipwithanoperatorofretirementcommunities.Commercialloansandleasesinnonaccrual

statuswere$187millionatDecember31,2010,$322millionatDecember31,2009and$114millionat
December31,2008.ThedeclinefromDecember31,2009tothe2010year-endreflects$62millionof
paymentsrelatedtoasingleborrowerthatoperatesretirementcommunitiesandthepayoffsofa

$37millionloantoaconsumerfinanceandcreditinsurancecompanyanda$36millionloantoa
borrowerinthecommercialrealestatesector.Theriseinnonaccrualcommercialloansfromthe
2008year-endtoDecember31,2009reflectstheimpactofgeneraleconomicconditionsonborrowers™

abilitiestorepayloans.Specificallycontributingtothatincreaseweretheadditionsoftherelationshipto
aborrowerthatoperatesretirementcommunities($41million),a$37millionloantoaconsumerfinance
andcreditinsurancecompany,theloantoaborrowerinthecommercialrealestatesector($36million)

anda$22millionloantoabusinessinthehealthcaresector.
Netcharge-offsofcommercialrealestateloansduring2010,2009and2008were$118million,
$121millionand$112million,respectively.Reflectedin2010™scharge-offswere$71millionofloansto

residentialrealestatebuildersanddevelopers,comparedwith$92millionin2009and$100millionin
2008.Commercialrealestateloansclassifiedasnonaccrualtotaled$682millionatDecember31,2010,
comparedwith$638millionatDecember31,2009and$319millionatDecember31,2008.Theincrease

insuchloansin2010reflectsa$40millionriseinnonperformingloanstohomebuildersanddevelopers
andtheadditionof$66millionofconstructionloanstoanowner/operatorofretirementandassisted
livingfacilities.Thosefactorswerepartiallyoffsetbytheremovalfromthiscategoryofaloan

collateralizedbyrealestateinNewYorkCitythatwasinitiallyplacedonnonaccrualstatusinthefourth
quarterof2009.Followinga$7millioncharge-off,theremaining$98millionofthatloan™scarrying
valuewastransferredtoﬁRealEstateandOtherForeclosedAssetsﬂinthesecondquarterof2010.

ContributingtotheriseincommercialrealestateloansinnonaccrualstatusfromDecember31,2008to
the2009year-endwereanincreaseof$113millioninsuchloanstoresidentialhomebuildersand
developersandtheloancollateralizedbyrealestateinNewYorkCity($104million).AtDecember31,

2010and2009,loanstoresidentialhomebuildersanddevelopersclassifiedasnonaccrualaggregated
$362millionand$322million,respectively,comparedwith$209millionatDecember31,2008.
Informationaboutthelocationofnonaccrualandcharged-offloanstoresidentialrealestatebuildersand

developersasofandfortheyearendedDecember31,2010ispresentedintable12.
Table12
RESIDENTIALBUILDERANDDEVELOPERLOANS,NETOFUNEARNEDDISCOUNT
OutstandingBalances(a)Balances
Percentof
OutstandingBalancesBalances
PercentofAverage
OutstandingBalancesNonaccrualNetCharge-offs(Recoveries)
December31,2010
YearEnded
December31,2010
(Dollarsinthousands)
NewYork........................$
250,045$30,60012.24%$15,7134.84%
Pennsylvania.
....................
192,79395,80849.707,3873.14
Mid-Atlantic.
....................
732,011178,16624.3430,3643.90
Other.......
....................
229,73657,70325.1217,5427.60
Total.......
....................$
1,404,585$362,27725.79%$71,0064.53%
(a)Includesapproximately$53millionofloansnotsecuredbyrealestate,ofwhichapproximately$16million
areinnonaccrualstatus.
Residentialrealestateloanschargedoff,netofrecoveries,were$61millionin2010,$92millionin
2009and$63millionin2008.Nonaccrualresidentialrealestateloansattheendof2010totaled

$279million,comparedwith$281millionand$256millionatDecember31,2009and2008,respectively.
Depressedrealestatevaluesandhighlevelsofdelinquencieshavecontributedtothehigherthan
historicallevelsofresidentialrealestateloansclassifiedasnonaccrualatthethreemostrecentyear-ends

andtotheelevatedlevelsofcharge-offs,largelyintheCompany™sAlt-Aportfolio.Netcharge-offsofAlt-
60Aloanswere$34millionin2010,$52millionin2009and$44millionin2008.NonaccrualAlt-Aloans
aggregated$106millionatDecember31,2010,comparedwith$112millionand$125millionat

December31,2009and2008,respectively.Residentialrealestateloanspastdue90daysormoreand
accruinginteresttotaled$192million,$178millionand$108millionatDecember31,2010,2009and
2008,respectively.Asubstantialportionofsuchamountsrelatedtoguaranteedloansrepurchasedfrom

government-relatedentities.Informationaboutthelocationofnonaccrualandcharged-offresidentialreal
estateloansasofandfortheyearendedDecember31,2010ispresentedintable13.
Netcharge-offsofconsumerloansduring2010were$102million,representing.87%ofaverage
consumerloansandleasesoutstanding,comparedwith$129millionor1.10%in2009and$114million
or1.03%in2008.Automobileloansrepresentedthemostsignificantcategoryofconsumerloancharge-
offsduringthepastthreeyears.Netcharge-offsofautomobileloanswere$32millionduring2010,

$56millionduring2009and$51millionduring2008.Consumerloancharge-offsalsoincluded
recreationalvehicleloansof$23million,$25millionand$21millionduring2010,2009and2008,
respectively,andhomeequityloansandlinesofcreditsecuredbyone-to-fourfamilyresidential

propertiesof$31millionduringeachof2010and2008,and$39millionduring2009.Nonaccrual
consumerloanswere$91millionateachofDecember31,2010and2009,representing.79%and.75%,
respectively,ofoutstandingconsumerloans,comparedwith$66millionor.60%atDecember31,2008.

Includedinnonaccrualconsumerloansandleasesatthe2010,2009and2008year-endswere:indirect
automobileloansof$32million,$39millionand$21million,respectively;recreationalvehicleloansof
$13million,$15millionand$14million;andoutstandingbalancesofhomeequityloansandlinesof

credit,includingsecondlien,Alt-Aloans,of$43million,$33millionand$29million,respectively.At
the2010,2009and2008year-ends,consumerloansandleasesdelinquent30-89daystotaled$120million,
$141millionand$118million,respectively,or1.04%,1.17%,and1.07%ofoutstandingconsumerloans.

Consumerloanspastdue90daysormoreandaccruinginteresttotaled$4millionateachof
December31,2010andDecember31,2009and$1millionatDecember31,2008.Informationaboutthe
locationofnonaccrualandcharged-offhomeequityloansandlinesofcreditasofandfortheyearended

December31,2010ispresentedintable13.
6162Table13
SELECTEDRESIDENTIALREALESTATE-RELATEDLOANDATA
OutstandingBalancesBalances
Percentof
OutstandingBalancesBalances
Percentof
Average
OutstandingBalancesNonaccrual
December31,2010
NetCharge-offs
YearEnded
December31,2010
(Dollarsinthousands)
Residentialmortgages
NewYork.....................................
$2,208,737$45,1322.04%$4,1400.20%
Pennsylvania
...................................
760,96518,4372.422,0520.29
Mid-Atlantic
...................................
1,118,56840,7533.648,2440.78
Other........................................
1,144,34762,6255.479,2040.81
Total
........................................
$5,232,617$166,9473.19%$23,6400.48%
Residentialconstructionloans
NewYork.....................................$
9,161$5556.06%$540.48%
Pennsylvania
...................................
3,17887127.411673.35
Mid-Atlantic
...................................
19,5872041.0462010.20
Other........................................
39,1344,15210.612,7986.46
Total
........................................$
71,060$5,7828.14%$3,6395.54%
Alt-Afirstmortgages
NewYork.....................................$
93,564$13,60214.54%$2,0472.02%
Pennsylvania
...................................
23,1363,19213.801,1104.11
Mid-Atlantic
...................................
114,93016,96014.764,1423.27
Other........................................
392,74972,71518.5126,3656.03
Total
........................................$
624,379$106,46917.05%$33,6644.86%
Alt-Ajuniorlien
NewYork.....................................$
2,894$ŠŠ%$31610.16%
Pennsylvania
...................................69435
5.0436038.78
Mid-Atlantic
...................................
4,5923056.643747.41
Other........................................
15,2611,3238.673,31618.75
Total
........................................$
23,441$1,6637.09%$4,36616.31%
Firstlienhomeequityloans
NewYork.....................................$
34,551$2680.78%$60.02%
Pennsylvania
...................................
196,0542,5411.302880.13
Mid-Atlantic
...................................
153,1762,1401.40450.03
Other........................................
1,11313612.22ŠŠ
Total
........................................$
384,894$5,0851.32%$3390.08%
Firstlienhomeequitylines
NewYork.....................................$
861,365$2,1110.25%$3290.04%
Pennsylvania
...................................
559,8861,1320.202950.06
Mid-Atlantic
...................................
534,2201,0830.204790.09
Other........................................
12,9733672.83ŠŠ
Total
........................................
$1,968,444$4,6930.24%$1,1030.06%
Juniorlienhomeequityloans
NewYork.....................................$
86,268$9401.09%$8760.86%
Pennsylvania
...................................
91,9607710.841270.12
Mid-Atlantic
...................................
157,2983,4312.181,0650.60
Other........................................
16,9011,1526.824572.89
Total
........................................$
352,427$6,2941.79%$2,5250.62%
Juniorlienhomeequitylines
NewYork.....................................
$1,698,111$14,8220.87%$11,9780.71%
Pennsylvania
...................................
573,1251,2730.221,5190.25
Mid-Atlantic
...................................
1,479,3946,9810.477,3250.47
Other........................................
76,5152,2442.932,0012.55
Total
........................................
$3,827,145$25,3200.66%$22,8230.58%
InformationaboutpastdueandnonaccrualloansasofDecember31,2010isalsoincludedin
note4ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Managementregularlyassessestheadequacyoftheallowanceforcreditlossesbyperforming
ongoingevaluationsoftheloanandleaseportfolio,includingsuchfactorsasthedifferingeconomicrisks

associatedwitheachloancategory,thefinancialconditionofspecificborrowers,theeconomicenviron-
mentinwhichborrowersoperate,thelevelofdelinquentloans,thevalueofanycollateraland,where
applicable,theexistenceofanyguaranteesorindemnifications.Managementevaluatedtheimpactof
changesininterestratesandoveralleconomicconditionsontheabilityofborrowerstomeetrepayment
obligationswhenquantifyingtheCompany™sexposuretocreditlossesandassessingtheadequacyofthe

Company™sallowanceforsuchlossesasofeachreportingdate.Factorsalsoconsideredbymanagement
whenperformingitsassessment,inadditiontogeneraleconomicconditionsandtheotherfactors
describedabove,included,butwerenotlimitedto:(i)theimpactofdecliningresidentialrealestate
valuesintheCompany™sportfolioofloanstoresidentialrealestatebuildersanddevelopers;(ii)the
repaymentperformanceassociatedwiththeCompany™sportfolioofAlt-Aresidentialmortgageloans;
(iii)theconcentrationsofcommercialrealestateloansintheCompany™sloanportfolio;(iv)theamount
ofcommercialandindustrialloanstobusinessesinareasofNewYorkStateoutsideoftheNewYorkCity

metropolitanareaandincentralPennsylvaniathathavehistoricallyexperiencedlesseconomicgrowth
andvitalitythanthevastmajorityofotherregionsofthecountry;and(v)thesizeoftheCompany™s
portfolioofloanstoindividualconsumers,whichhistoricallyhaveexperiencedhighernetcharge-offsas
apercentageofloansoutstandingthanotherloantypes.Theleveloftheallowanceisadjustedbasedon
theresultsofmanagement™sanalysis.
Managementcautiouslyandconservativelyevaluatedtheallowanceforcreditlossesasof
December31,2010inlightof:(i)residentialrealestatevaluesandthelevelofdelinquenciesofresidential
realestateloans;(ii)thesluggisheconomicconditionsinmanyofthemarketsservedbytheCompany;
(iii)continuingweaknessinindustrialemploymentinupstateNewYorkandcentralPennsylvania;(iv)the
significantsubjectivityinvolvedincommercialrealestatevaluationsforpropertieslocatedinareaswith

stagnantorlowgrowtheconomies;and(v)theamountofloangrowthexperiencedbytheCompany.
Considerableconcernsexistabouteconomicconditionsinbothnationalandinternationalmarkets;the
levelandvolatilityofenergyprices;aweakenedhousingmarket;thetroubledstateoffinancialandcredit
markets;FederalReservepositioningofmonetarypolicy;highlevelsofunemployment;theimpactof
economicconditionsonbusinesses™operationsandabilitiestorepayloans;continuedstagnantpopula-
tiongrowthintheupstateNewYorkandcentralPennsylvaniaregions;andcontinueduncertaintyabout
possibleresponsestostateandlocalgovernmentbudgetdeficits.AlthoughtheU.S.economyexperienced

recessionandweakeconomicconditionsduringrecentyears,theimpactofthoseconditionswasnotas
pronouncedonborrowersinthetraditionallyslowergrowthorstagnantregionsofupstateNewYorkand
centralPennsylvania.Approximatelyone-halfoftheCompany™sloansaretocustomersinupstateNew
YorkandPennsylvania.HomepricesinupstateNewYorkandcentralPennsylvaniawerelargely
unchangedin2009and2010,incontrasttodeclinesinvaluesinmanyotherregionsofthecountry.

Therefore,despitetheconditions,aspreviouslydescribed,themostseverecreditissuesexperiencedby
theCompanyhavebeencenteredaroundresidentialrealestate,includingloanstobuildersand
developersofresidentialrealestate,inareasotherthanNewYorkStateandPennsylvania.Inresponse,
theCompanyhasconducteddetailedreviewsofallloanstoresidentialrealestatebuildersanddevelopers
thatexceeded$2.5million.Thosecreditreviewsoftenresultedincommencementofintensifiedcollection

efforts,includingforeclosure.During2009and2010,theCompanyalsoexperiencedincreasesin
nonaccrualcommercialrealestateloans,inpartduetobuildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestate.
TheCompanyutilizesanextensiveloangradingsystemwhichisappliedtoallcommercialand
commercialrealestateloans.Onaquarterlybasis,theCompany™sloanreviewdepartmentreviews
commercialloansandcommercialrealestateloansthatareclassifiedasﬁSpecialMentionﬂorworse.
Meetingsareheldwithloanofficersandtheirmanagers,workoutspecialistsandSeniorManagementto
discusseachoftherelationships.Borrower-specificinformationisreviewed,includingoperatingresults,

futurecashflows,recentdevelopmentsandtheborrower™soutlook,andotherpertinentdata.Thetiming
andextentofpotentiallosses,consideringcollateralvaluation,andtheCompany™spotentialcoursesof
actionarereviewed.Totheextentthattheseloansarecollateral-dependent,theyareevaluatedbasedon
63thefairvalueoftheloan™scollateralasestimatedatornearthefinancialstatementdate.Asthequalityof
aloandeterioratestothepointofclassifyingtheloanasﬁSpecialMention,ﬂtheprocessofobtaining

updatedcollateralvaluationinformationisusuallyinitiated,unlessitisnotconsideredwarrantedgiven

factorssuchastherelativesizeoftheloan,thecharacteristicsofthecollateralortheageofthelast

valuation.Inthosecaseswherecurrentappraisalsmaynotyetbeavailable,priorappraisalsareutilized

withadjustments,asdeemednecessary,forestimatesofsubsequentdeclinesinvalueasdeterminedby

lineofbusinessand/orloanworkoutpersonnelintherespectivegeographicregions.Thoseadjustments

arereviewedandassessedforreasonablenessbytheCompany™sloanreviewdepartment.Accordingly,for

realestatecollateralsecuringlargercommercialandcommercialrealestateloans,estimatedcollateral

valuesarebasedoncurrentappraisalsandestimatesofvalue.Fornon-realestateloans,collateralis

assignedadiscountedestimatedliquidationvalueand,dependingonthenatureofthecollateral,is

verifiedthroughfieldexamsorotherprocedures.Inassessingcollateral,realestateandnon-realestate

valuesarereducedbyanestimateofsellingcosts.Withregardtoresidentialrealestateloans,the

Companyexpandeditscollectionsandloanwork-outstaffandfurtherrefineditslossidentificationand

estimationtechniquesbyreferencetoloanperformanceandhousepricedepreciationdatainspecific

areasofthecountrywherecollateralthatwassecuringtheCompany™sresidentialrealestateloanswas

located.Forresidentialrealestate-relatedloans,includinghomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,the

excessoftheloanbalanceoverthenetrealizablevalueofthepropertycollateralizingtheloanischarged-

offwhentheloanbecomes150daysdelinquent.Thatcharge-offisbasedonrecentindicationsofvalue

fromexternalparties.
FactorsthatinfluencetheCompany™screditlossexperienceincludeoveralleconomicconditions
affectingbusinessesandconsumers,generally,butalsoresidentialandcommercialrealestatevaluations,

inparticular,giventhesizeoftheCompany™srealestateloanportfolios.Reflectingthefactorsand

conditionsasdescribedherein,theCompanyhasexperiencedhistoricallyhighlevelsofnonaccrualloans

andnetcharge-offsofresidentialrealestate-relatedloans,includingfirstandsecondlienAlt-Amortgage
loansandloanstobuildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestate.TheCompanyhasalsoexperienced
higherthanhistoricallevelsofnonaccrualcommercialrealestateloansin2009and2010.Commercial

realestatevaluationscanbehighlysubjective,astheyarebaseduponmanyassumptions.Suchvaluations

canbesignificantlyaffectedoverrelativelyshortperiodsoftimebychangesinbusinessclimate,economic

conditions,interestrates,and,inmanycases,theresultsofoperationsofbusinessesandotheroccupants

oftherealproperty.Similarly,residentialrealestatevaluationscanbeimpactedbyhousingtrends,the

availabilityoffinancingatreasonableinterestrates,andgeneraleconomicconditionsaffecting

consumers.
Inascertainingtheadequacyoftheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanyestimateslosses
attributabletospecifictroubledcreditsidentifiedthroughbothnormalanddetailedorintensifiedcredit

reviewprocessesandalsoestimateslossesinherentinotherloansandleases.Inquantifyingincurred

losses,theCompanyconsidersthefactorsandusesthetechniquesdescribedherein.Forpurposesof

determiningtheleveloftheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanysegmentsitsloanandlease

portfoliobyloantype.TheamountofspecificlosscomponentsintheCompany™sloanandlease

portfoliosisdeterminedthroughaloanbyloananalysisofcommercialloansandcommercialrealestate

loansinnonaccrualstatus.Measurementofthespecificlosscomponentsistypicallybasedonexpected

futurecashflows,collateralvaluesandotherfactorsthatmayimpacttheborrower™sabilitytopay.Except

forconsumerloansandleasesandresidentialrealestateloansthatareconsideredsmallerbalance

homogeneousloansandareevaluatedcollectively,theCompanyconsidersaloantobeimpairedwhen,

basedoncurrentinformationandevents,itisprobablethattheCompanywillbeunabletocollectall

amountsaccordingtothecontractualtermsoftheloanagreementortheloanisdelinquent90daysor

moreandhasbeenplacedinnonaccrualstatus.Thoseimpairedloansareevaluatedforspecificloss

components.Modifiedloans,includingsmallerbalancehomogenousloans,thatareconsideredtobe

troubleddebtrestructuringsareevaluatedforimpairmentgivingconsiderationtotheimpactofthe

modifiedloantermsonthepresentvalueoftheloan™sexpectedcashflows.Loanslessthan90days

delinquentaredeemedtohaveaminimaldelayinpaymentandaregenerallynotconsideredtobe

impaired.64TheinherentbaselevellosscomponentsoftheCompany™sallowanceforcreditlossesaregenerally
determinedbyapplyinglossfactorstospecificloanbalancesbasedonloantypeandmanagement™s
classificationofsuchloansundertheCompany™sloangradingsystem.TheCompanyutilizesanextensive
loangradingsystemwhichisappliedtoallcommercialandcommercialrealestatecredits.Loanofficers

areresponsibleforcontinuallyassigninggradestotheseloansbasedonstandardsoutlinedinthe
Company™sCreditPolicy.InternalloangradesarealsoextensivelymonitoredbytheCompany™sloan
reviewdepartmenttoensureconsistencyandstrictadherencetotheprescribedstandards.Loanbalances
utilizedintheinherentbaselevellosscomponentcomputationsexcludeloansandleasesforwhich
specificallocationsaremaintained.Loangradesareassignedlosscomponentfactorsthatreflectthe
Company™slossestimateforeachgroupofloansandleases.Factorsconsideredinassigningloangrades
andlosscomponentfactorsincludeborrower-specificinformationrelatedtoexpectedfuturecashflows

andoperatingresults,collateralvalues,financialcondition,paymentstatus,andotherinformation;levels
ofandtrendsinportfoliocharge-offsandrecoveries;levelsofandtrendsinportfoliodelinquenciesand
impairedloans;changesintheriskprofileofspecificportfolios;trendsinvolumeandtermsofloans;
effectsofchangesincreditconcentrations;andobservedtrendsandpracticesinthebankingindustry.In
assessingtheoveralladequacyoftheallowanceforcreditlosses,managementalsogivesconsiderationto

suchfactorsascustomer,industryandgeographicconcentrationsaswellasnationalandlocaleconomic
conditionsincluding:(i)thecomparativelypoorereconomicconditionsandunfavorablebusinessclimate
inmanymarketregionsservedbytheCompany,specificallyupstateNewYorkandcentralPennsylvania,
thatresultinsuchregionsgenerallyexperiencingsignificantlypoorereconomicgrowthandvitalityas
comparedwithmuchoftherestofthecountry;(ii)portfolioconcentrationsregardingloantype,
collateraltypeandgeographiclocation;and(iii)additionalriskassociatedwiththeCompany™sportfolio
ofconsumerloans,inparticularautomobileloansandleases,whichgenerallyhavehigherratesofloss

thanothertypesofcollateralizedloans.
Inevaluatingcollateral,theCompanyreliesextensivelyoninternallyandexternallyprepared
valuations.Inrecentyears,valuationsofresidentialrealestate,whichareusuallybasedonsalesof
comparableproperties,declinedsignificantlyinmanyregionsacrosstheUnitedStates.Commercialreal
estatevaluationsalsorefertosalesofcomparablepropertiesbutoftentimesarebasedoncalculationsthat

utilizemanyassumptionsand,asaresult,canbehighlysubjective.Specifically,commercialrealestate
valuescanbesignificantlyaffectedoverrelativelyshortperiodsoftimebychangesinbusinessclimate,
economicconditionsandinterestrates,and,inmanycases,theresultsofoperationsofbusinessesand
otheroccupantsoftherealproperty.Additionally,managementisawarethatthereisoftentimesadelay
intherecognitionofcreditqualitychangesinloansand,asaresult,inchangestoassignedloangrades

duetotimedelaysinthemanifestationandreportingofunderlyingeventsthatimpactcreditquality.
Accordingly,lossestimatesderivedfromtheinherentbaselevellosscomponentcomputationareadjusted
forcurrentnationalandlocaleconomicconditionsandtrends.Economicindicatorsinthemost
significantmarketregionsservedbytheCompanywereweak,butstabilizing,during2010,indicativeofa
sluggisheconomy.Forexample,during2010,privatesectoremploymentdeclinedinmostmarketareas
servedbytheCompany.Suchdeclinesweregenerallysimilartothenationalaveragedeclineof0.5%.
Privatesectoremploymentin2010declined0.5%inupstateNewYork,0.7%inareasofPennsylvania

servedbytheCompanyand0.3%inMaryland,butincreasedby0.4%inGreaterWashingtonD.C.
PrivateemploymentinareasofPennsylvaniaservedbytheCompanydeclinedby4.2%in2009,while
employmentintheMarylandandGreaterWashingtonD.C.regionsfellby4.0%and2.9%,respectively,
comparedwiththenationalaverageofa5.2%decrease.InNewYorkCity,privatesectoremployment
increasedby.2%in2010,however,unemploymentratesthereremainelevatedandareexpectedto

continueatabovehistoricallevelsduring2011.Attheendof2010thereremainedsignificantconcerns
aboutthepaceofnationaleconomicrecoveryfromtherecession,highunemployment,realestate
valuations,highlevelsofconsumerindebtedness,volatileenergypricesandstateandlocalgovernment
budgetdeficits.Thosefactorsareexpectedtoactasasignificantdragonthenationaleconomyin2011.
Thespecificlosscomponentsandtheinherentbaselevellosscomponentstogethercomprisethe
totalbaselevelorﬁallocatedﬂallowanceforcreditlosses.Suchallocatedportionoftheallowance
representsmanagement™sassessmentoflossesexistinginspecificlargerbalanceloansthatarereviewedin
detailbymanagementandpoolsofotherloansthatarenotindividuallyanalyzed.Inaddition,the
65Companyhasalwaysprovidedaninherentunallocatedportionoftheallowancethatisintendedto
recognizeprobablelossesthatarenototherwiseidentifiable.Theinherentunallocatedallowanceincludes

management™ssubjectivedeterminationofamountsnecessaryforsuchthingsasthepossibleuseof
impreciseestimatesindeterminingtheallocatedportionoftheallowanceandotherrisksassociatedwith
theCompany™sloanportfoliowhichmaynotbespecificallyallocable.
Acomparativeallocationoftheallowanceforcreditlossesforeachofthepastfiveyear-endsis
presentedintable14.Amountswereallocatedtospecificloancategoriesbasedoninformationavailable
tomanagementatthetimeofeachyear-endassessmentandusingthemethodologydescribedherein.

Variationsintheallocationoftheallowancebyloancategoryasapercentageofthoseloansreflect
changesinmanagement™sestimateofspecificlosscomponentsandinherentbaselevellosscomponents,
includingtheimpactofdelinquenciesandnonaccrualloans.Asdescribedinnote5ofNotestoFinancial

Statements,loansconsideredimpairedwere$1.3billionateachofDecember31,2010andDecember31,
2009.Theallocatedportionoftheallowanceforcreditlossesrelatedtoimpairedloanstotaled
$214millionatDecember31,2010and$244millionatDecember31,2009.Theunallocatedportionof

theallowanceforcreditlosseswasequalto.13%ofgrossloansoutstandingateachofDecember31,
2010and2009.Thedeclinesintheunallocatedportionoftheallowancesince2007reflectmanagement™s
continuedrefinementofitslossestimationtechniques,whichhasincreasedtheprecisionofitscalculation

oftheallocatedportionoftheallowanceforcreditlosses.However,giventheinherentimprecisioninthe
manyestimatesusedinthedeterminationoftheallocatedportionoftheallowance,management
deliberatelyremainedcautiousandconservativeinestablishingtheoverallallowanceforcreditlosses.

GiventheCompany™shighconcentrationofrealestateloansandconsideringtheotherfactorsalready
discussedherein,managementconsiderstheallocatedandunallocatedportionsoftheallowancefor
creditlossestobeprudentandreasonable.Furthermore,theCompany™sallowanceisgeneralinnature

andisavailabletoabsorblossesfromanyloanorleasecategory.Additionalinformationaboutthe
allowanceforcreditlossesisincludedinnote5ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Table14
ALLOCATIONOFTHEALLOWANCEFORCREDITLOSSESTOLOANCATEGORIES
December3120102009200820072006
(Dollarsinthousands)
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc....
........
$212,579$219,170$231,993$216,833$212,945
Realestate.
.............................
486,913451,352340,588283,127221,747
Consumer.
.............................
133,067137,124140,571167,984124,675
Unallocated
.............................
70,38270,37674,75291,49590,581
Total...
.............................
$902,941$878,022$787,904$759,439$649,948
AsaPercentageofGrossLoans
andLeasesOutstanding
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc....
........1.56%
1.59%1.59%1.62%1.79%
Realestate.
.............................1.79
1.701.431.201.04
Consumer.
.............................
1.161.141.281.491.26
ManagementbelievesthattheallowanceforcreditlossesatDecember31,2010wasadequateto
absorbcreditlossesinherentintheportfolioasofthatdate.Theallowanceforcreditlosseswas
$903millionor1.74%oftotalloansandleasesatDecember31,2010,comparedwith$878millionor

1.69%atDecember31,2009and$788millionor1.61%atDecember31,2008.Theratioofthe
allowancetototalloansandleasesatDecember31,2010reflectstheimpactofloansobtainedin2010
associatedwiththeKBanktransactionandin2009fromtheProvidentandBradfordacquisition

transactionsthathavebeenrecordedatestimatedfairvaluebasedonestimatedfuturecashflows
expectedtobereceivedonthoseloans.Thosecashflowsreflecttheimpactofexpecteddefaultson
customerrepaymentperformance.Asaresult,andasrequiredbyGAAP,therewasnocarry-overofthe

allowanceforcreditlossesrecordedbyKBank,ProvidentorBradford.Theallowanceforcreditlossesat
66December31,2010relatedtotheCompany™slegacyloans(thatis,totalloansexcludingloansacquired
during2010intheKBanktransactionandduring2009intheProvidentandBradfordtransactions)
expressedasapercentageofsuchlegacyloanswas1.82%,comparedwith1.83%atDecember31,2009.

Theleveloftheallowancereflectsmanagement™sevaluationoftheloanandleaseportfoliousingthe
methodologyandconsideringthefactorsasdescribedhereinandtheCompany™sloancharge-offpolicies.
Shouldthevariouscreditfactorsconsideredbymanagementinestablishingtheallowanceforcreditlosses
changeandshouldmanagement™sassessmentoflossesinherentintheloanportfoliosalsochange,the
leveloftheallowanceasapercentageofloanscouldincreaseordecreaseinfutureperiods.Theratioof

theallowancetononaccrualloansattheendof2010,2009and2008was73%,66%and104%,
respectively.GiventheCompany™spositionasasecuredlenderanditspracticeofchargingoffloan
balanceswhencollectionisdeemeddoubtful,thatratioandchangesinthatratioaregenerallynotan
indicativemeasureoftheadequacyoftheCompany™sallowanceforcreditlosses,nordoesmanagement
relyuponthatratioinassessingtheadequacyoftheallowance.Theleveloftheallowancereflects

management™sevaluationoftheloanandleaseportfolioasofeachrespectivedate.
Inestablishingtheallowanceforcreditlosses,managementfollowsthemethodologydescribed
herein,includingtakingaconservativeviewofborrowers™abilitiestorepayloans.Theestablishmentof
theallowanceisextremelysubjectiveandrequiresmanagementtomakemanyjudgmentsaboutborrower,
industry,regionalandnationaleconomichealthandperformance.Inordertopresentexamplesofthe
possibleimpactontheallowancefromcertainchangesincreditqualityfactors,theCompanyassumed
thefollowingscenariosforpossibledeteriorationofcreditquality:
kForconsumerloansandleasesconsideredsmallerbalancehomogenousloansandevaluated

collectively,a20basispointincreaseinlossfactors;
kForresidentialrealestateloansandhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,alsoconsideredsmaller

balancehomogenousloansandevaluatedcollectively,a15%increaseinestimatedinherent
losses;and
kForcommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloans,whicharenotsimilarinnature,a

migrationofloanstolower-rankedriskgradesresultingina20%increaseinthebalanceof
classifiedcreditsineachriskgrade.
Forpossibleimprovementincreditqualityfactors,thescenariosassumedwere:
kForconsumerloansandleases,a10basispointdecreaseinlossfactors;
kForresidentialrealestateloansandhomeequityloansandlinesofcredit,a5%decreasein
estimatedinherentlosses;and
kForcommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloans,amigrationofloanstohigher-rankedrisk

gradesresultingina5%decreaseinthebalanceofclassifiedcreditsineachriskgrade.
Thescenarioanalysesresultedinanadditional$79millionthatcouldbeidentifiableunderthe
assumptionsforcreditdeterioration,whereasundertheassumptionsforcreditimprovementa$24million
reductioncouldoccur.Theseexamplesareonlyafewofnumerousreasonablypossiblescenariosthat
couldbeutilizedinassessingthesensitivityoftheallowanceforcreditlossesbasedonchangesin

assumptionsandotherfactors.
Investor-ownedcommercialrealestateloanssecuredbyretailpropertiesintheNewYorkCity
metropolitanarearepresented4%ofloansoutstandingatDecember31,2010.TheCompanyhadno
concentrationsofcreditextendedtoanyspecificindustrythatexceeded10%oftotalloansat
December31,2010.Outstandingloanstoforeignborrowerswere$107millionatDecember31,2010,or
.2%oftotalloansandleases.
Realestateandotherforeclosedassetstotaledto$220millionatDecember31,2010,compared
with$95millionatDecember31,2009and$100millionatDecember31,2008.Theincreasein2010
resultedfromthesecondquarteradditionof$98millionofthepreviouslydiscussedcommercialreal
estatepropertylocatedinNewYorkCity,andfromhigherresidentialrealestateloandefaultsand
additionsfromresidentialrealestatedevelopmentprojects.AtDecember31,2010,exclusiveofthat

$98millioncommercialrealestateproperty,74%oftheremaining$122millionofforeclosedassetswere
comprisedofresidentialrealestate-relatedproperties.
67OtherIncome
Otherincometotaled$1.11billionin2010,comparedwith$1.05billionin2009.Reflectedinsuch
incomewerenetlossesoninvestmentsecurities(includingother-than-temporaryimpairmentlosses),

whichtotaledto$84millionin2010and$137millionin2009.During2010,other-than-temporary

impairmentchargesof$86millionwererecognizedrelatedtocertainoftheCompany™sprivatelyissued

CMOs,CDOsandAIBADSs.Similarchargesof$138millionwererecognizedin2009relatedtocertain
oftheCompany™sprivatelyissuedCMOsandCDOs.Also,reflectedinnoninterestincomewerethe
$28milliongainrecognizedontheKBankacquisitiontransactionin2010andthe$29milliongain

recognizedontheBradfordacquisitiontransactionin2009.Excludinggainsandlossesfrombank

investmentsecuritiesandthoseacquisition-relatedgains,noninterestincomewas$1.16billionineachof

2010and2009.Higherrevenuesin2010relatedtocommercialmortgagebanking,servicechargeson

depositaccounts,credit-relatedfeesandotherrevenuesfromoperationswereoffsetbylowerrevenues

fromresidentialmortgagebanking,brokerageservicesandM&T™strustbusiness.
Otherincomein2009was12%higherthanthe$939millionearnedin2008.Asnotedabove,
reflectedinotherincomein2009werenetlossesfrombankinvestmentsecuritiesof$137million,

comparedwithnetlossesof$148millionin2008(including$182millionofother-than-temporary
impairmentlosses).Theimpairmentchargesrecognizedin2008relatedtocertainoftheCompany™s
CMOs,CDOsandpreferredstockholdingsofFannieMaeandFreddieMac.Excludingtheimpactof

securitiesgainsandlossesfrombothyearsandthe$29milliongainassociatedwiththeBradford

acquisitiontransactionin2009,otherincomeof$1.16billionin2009was6%higherthan$1.09billion

in2008.Contributingtothatimprovementwerehighermortgagebankingrevenues,servicechargeson

depositaccountsobtainedinthe2009acquisitiontransactionsandasmallerlossrelatedtoM&T™sequity

intheoperationsofBLG.Partiallyoffsettingthosefactorsweredeclinesintrustandbrokerageservices

income.
Mortgagebankingrevenueswere$185millionin2010,$208millionin2009and$156millionin
2008.Mortgagebankingrevenuesarecomprisedofbothresidentialandcommercialmortgagebanking
activities.TheCompany™sinvolvementincommercialmortgagebankingactivitiesincludesthe
origination,salesandservicingofloansunderthemulti-familyloanprogramsofFannieMae,Freddie

MacandtheU.S.DepartmentofHousingandUrbanDevelopment.
Residentialmortgagebankingrevenues,consistingofrealizedgainsfromsalesofresidential
mortgageloansandloanservicingrights,unrealizedgainsandlossesonresidentialmortgageloansheld

forsaleandrelatedcommitments,residentialmortgageloanservicingfees,andotherresidentialmortgage

loan-relatedfeesandincome,were$127millionin2010,$166millionin2009and$117millionin2008.

Thedeclineinsuchrevenuesin2010from2009reflectstheimpactofloweroriginationvolumes,the

Company™sdecisiontoretainforportfolioahigherproportionoforiginatedloansratherthanselling

them,andincreasedcostsassociatedwithobligationstorepurchasecertainmortgageloanspreviously
sold.Thehigherrevenuesin2009ascomparedwith2008wereattributabletosignificantlyhigher
originationactivity,duelargelytorefinancingofloansbyconsumersinresponsetorelativelylowinterest

rates,andwidermarginsassociatedwiththatactivity.
Newcommitmentstooriginateresidentialmortgageloanstobesoldwereapproximately
$4.1billionin2010,comparedwith$6.1billionin2009and$4.8billionin2008.Similarly,closed

residentialmortgageloansoriginatedforsaletootherinvestorstotaledapproximately$4.2billionin

2010,$6.2billionin2009and$4.4billionin2008.Realizedgainsfromsalesofresidentialmortgageloans

andloanservicingrights(netoftheimpactofcostsassociatedwithobligationstorepurchasemortgage

loansoriginatedforsale)andrecognizednetunrealizedgainsorlossesattributabletoresidential

mortgageloansheldforsale,commitmentstooriginateloansforsaleandcommitmentstosellloans
totaledtoagainof$43millionin2010,comparedwithgainsof$79millionin2009and$31millionin
2008.TheCompanyiscontractuallyobligatedtorepurchasepreviouslysoldloansthatdonotultimately
meetinvestorsalecriteriarelatedtounderwritingproceduresorloandocumentation.Whenrequiredto

doso,theCompanymayreimburseloanpurchasersforlossesincurredormayrepurchasecertainloans.

Sinceearly2007whentheCompanyrecognizeda$6millionchargerelatedtodeclinesinmarketvalues

ofpreviouslysoldresidentialrealestateloansthattheCompanycouldhavebeenrequiredtorepurchase,
6869theCompanyhasregularlyreducedresidentialmortgagebankingrevenuesbyanestimateforlosses
relatedtoitsobligationstoloanpurchasers.Theamountofthosechargesvariesbasedonthevolumeof

loanssold,thelevelofreimbursementrequestsreceivedfromloanpurchasersandestimatesoflossesthat
maybeassociatedwithpreviouslysoldloans.During2010theCompanyreceivedincreasedrequestsfrom
loanpurchasersforreimbursement.TheCompanyhasconsideredthoserequestsinassessingthe

estimatedimpactontheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialstatements.Residentialmortgagebanking

revenuesduring2010,2009and2008werereducedbyapproximately$30million,$10millionand
$4million,respectively,relatedtotheactualoranticipatedsettlementofrepurchaseobligationsfrom
loanpurchasers.
Loansheldforsalethataresecuredbyresidentialrealestatetotaled$341millionand$530million
atDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.Commitmentstosellresidentialmortgageloansand
commitmentstooriginateresidentialmortgageloansforsaleatpre-determinedrateswere$458million
and$162million,respectively,atDecember31,2010,$936millionand$631million,respectively,at

December31,2009and$898millionand$871million,respectively,atDecember31,2008.Netunrealized

gainsonresidentialmortgageloansheldforsale,commitmentstosellloans,andcommitmentsto
originateloansforsalewere$11millionand$15millionatDecember31,2010and2009,respectively,
and$6millionatDecember31,2008.Changesinsuchnetunrealizedgainsandlossesarerecordedin

mortgagebankingrevenuesandresultedinanetdecreaseinrevenueof$5millionin2010andnet

increasesinrevenueof$9millionand$13millionin2009and2008,respectively.
Lateinthethirdquarterof2010,theCompanybegantooriginatecertainresidentialrealestate
loanstobeheldinitsloanportfolio,ratherthancontinuingtosellsuchloans.Theloansconformto

FannieMaeandFreddieMacunderwritingguidelines.Retainingtheseresidentialrealestateloansis
expectedtolargelyoffsettheimpactofthedeclininginvestmentsecuritiesportfolioresultingfrom
maturitiesandpay-downsofresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritieswhileprovidinghighqualityassets

earningareasonableyield.Thatdecisionresultedinareductionofresidentialmortgagebankingrevenues

ofapproximately$11millionin2010.
Revenuesfromservicingresidentialmortgageloansforotherswere$80millionin2010,compared
with$82millionin2009and$81millionin2008.Includedinsuchservicingrevenueswereamounts

relatedtopurchasedservicingrightsassociatedwithsmallbalancecommercialmortgageloanstotaling

$27millionin2010and$29millionineachof2009and2008.Residentialmortgageloansservicedfor
othersaggregated$21.1billionatDecember31,2010,$21.4billionayearearlierand$21.3billionat
December31,2008,includingthesmallbalancecommercialmortgageloansnotedaboveofapproxi-

mately$5.2billion,$5.5billionand$5.9billionatDecember31,2010,2009and2008,respectively.

Capitalizedresidentialmortgageloanservicingassets,netofanyapplicablevaluationallowancefor
possibleimpairment,totaled$118millionatDecember31,2010,comparedwith$141millionand
$143millionatDecember31,2009and2008,respectively.Thevaluationallowanceforpossible

impairmentofcapitalizedresidentialmortgageservicingassetstotaled$50thousandand$22millionat

the2009and2008year-ends,respectively.TherewasnosimilarvaluationallowanceatDecember31,
2010.Includedincapitalizedresidentialmortgageservicingassetswerepurchasedservicingrights
associatedwiththesmallbalancecommercialmortgageloansnotedaboveof$26million,$40million

and$58millionatDecember31,2010,2009and2008,respectively.Servicingrightsforthesmallbalance

commercialmortgageloanswerepurchasedfromBLGoritsaffiliates.Inaddition,atDecember31,2010
capitalizedservicingrightsincluded$9millionofservicingrightsfor$3.6billionofresidentialrealestate
loansthatwerepurchasedfromaffiliatesofBLG.AdditionalinformationabouttheCompany™srelation-

shipwithBLGanditsaffiliatesisprovidedinnote25ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Additional
informationabouttheCompany™scapitalizedresidentialmortgageloanservicingassets,including
informationaboutthecalculationofestimatedfairvalue,ispresentedinnote7ofNotestoFinancial

Statements.Commercialmortgagebankingrevenuestotaled$58millionin2010,$42millionin2009and
$39millionin2008.Revenuesfromloanoriginationandsalesactivitieswere$40millionin2010and
$27millionineachof2009and2008.Thehigherrevenuesin2010reflectedhigherloanorigination

volumes.Ascomparedwith2008,improvedmarginsin2009wereoffsetbyadeclineinloanorigination

volume.Commercialmortgageloansoriginatedforsaletootherinvestorstotaledapproximately
$1.6billionin2010,comparedwith$1.1billionin2009and$1.4billionin2008.Loanservicingrevenues
totaled$18millionin2010,$15millionin2009and$12millionin2008.Capitalizedcommercial

mortgageloanservicingassetsaggregated$43millionatDecember31,2010,$33millionatDecember31,
2009and$26millionatDecember31,2008.Commercialmortgageloansservicedforotherinvestors
totaled$8.1billion,$7.1billionand$6.4billionatDecember31,2010,2009and2008,respectively,and

included$1.6billion,$1.3billionand$1.2billion,respectively,ofloanbalancesforwhichinvestorshad

recoursetotheCompanyifsuchbalancesareultimatelyuncollectible.Commitmentstosellcommercial

mortgageloansandcommitmentstooriginatecommercialmortgageloansforsalewere$276millionand

$73million,respectively,atDecember31,2010,$303millionand$180million,respectively,at
December31,2009and$408millionand$252million,respectively,atDecember31,2008.Commercial
mortgageloansheldforsaletotaled$204million,$123millionand$156millionatDecember31,2010,

2009and2008,respectively.
Servicechargesondepositaccountsrose2%to$478millionin2010from$469millionin2009.
Thatimprovementresultedlargelyfromthefull-yearimpactof2009acquisitiontransactionsand

increaseddebitcardfeesresultingfromhighertransactionvolumes.Thosepositivefactorswerepartially

offsetbytheimpactofnewregulationsthatwentintoeffectduringthethirdquarterof2010.The

FederalReserveandotherbankregulatorshaveadoptedregulationsrequiringexpandeddisclosureof

overdraftandotherfeesassessedtoconsumersandhaveissuedguidancethatrequiresconsumerstoelect

tobesubjecttofeesforcertaindepositaccounttransactionswhichbeganonJuly1,2010fornew
customersandonAugust15,2010forpre-existingcustomers.TheCompanyengagedinanoutreach
programtocustomers,particularlythosewhoarefrequentusersofoverdraftservices,toensurethey

understoodsuchservicesandtoallowthemtheopportunitytocontinuetoreceivethoseservices.

Nevertheless,theCompanyestimatesthattheseregulationsresultedinareductionofservicechargeson

depositaccountsin2010ofapproximately$35millionandexpectsthatthefull-year2011impactofthe

regulationsonsuchrevenueswillbeapproximately$65millionto$80million.Depositaccountservice
chargesin2008were$431million.The9%increaseinthoserevenuesin2009ascomparedwith2008
waspredominatelyduetotheimpactoftheProvidentacquisitioninMay2009.AspartoftheDodd-

FrankAct,theFederalReservehasproposednewregulationsrelatedtodebitcardinterchangeratesthat

wouldalsohaveasignificantnegativeimpactonrevenuesearnedbyfinancialinstitutionsondebitcard

transactions.Itisdifficulttoknowwhatthefinalregulationswillrequireandwhentheywillbecome

effectiveand,accordingly,theCompanycannotestimatetheimpactthatsuchregulationswillhaveonits

resultsofoperations.
Trustincomeincludesfeesfortrustandcustodyservicesprovidedtopersonal,corporateand
institutionalcustomers,andinvestmentmanagementandadvisoryfeesthatareoftenbasedona

percentageofthemarketvalueofassetsundermanagement.Trustincomedeclined5%to$123million
in2010from$129millionin2009.During2008,trustincometotaled$156million.Contributingtothe
lowerlevelsofsuchincomein2010and2009ascomparedwith2008weretheimpactoflowerbalances

inproprietarymutualfundsandtheimpactoffeewaiversbytheCompanyinordertopaycustomersa

yieldontheirinvestmentsinproprietarymoney-marketmutualfunds.Thosewaivedfeeswereapproxi-

mately$18millionin2010and$10millionin2009.Waivedfeesin2008werenotsignificant.Totaltrust

assets,whichincludeassetsundermanagementandassetsunderadministration,aggregated$113.4billion
atDecember31,2010,comparedwith$111.6billionatDecember31,2009.Trustassetsunder
managementwere$13.2billionand$13.8billionatDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.The

Company™sproprietarymutualfunds,theMTBGroupofFunds,hadassetsof$7.7billionand$7.9billion

atDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.
Brokerageservicesincome,whichincludesrevenuesfromthesaleofmutualfundsandannuities
andsecuritiesbrokeragefees,aggregated$50millionin2010,$58millionin2009and$64millionin

2008.Thedeclineinsuchrevenuesin2010ascomparedwith2009wasattributabletolowersalesof

annuityproducts.Thedecreaseinrevenuesin2009ascomparedwiththepreviousyearwaslargely

attributabletolowersalesofmutualfundandannuityproducts.Tradingaccountandforeignexchange

activityresultedingainsof$27millionin2010,$23millionin2009and$18millionin2008.Therisein
gainsfrom2009to2010wasduetohighernewvolumesofinterestrateswapagreementtransactions
7071executedonbehalfofcommercialcustomers.Thehigherrevenuesin2009ascomparedwith2008were
duetoincreasesinmarketvaluesoftradingassetsheldinconnectionwithdeferredcompensationplans.
TheCompanyentersintointerestrateandforeignexchangecontractswithcustomerswhoneedsuch
servicesandconcomitantlyentersintooffsettingtradingpositionswiththirdpartiestominimizethe

risksinvolvedwiththesetypesoftransactions.Informationaboutthenotionalamountofinterestrate,
foreignexchangeandothercontractsenteredintobytheCompanyfortradingaccountpurposesis
includedinnote18ofNotestoFinancialStatementsandhereinundertheheadingﬁLiquidity,Market
Risk,andInterestRateSensitivity.ﬂTradingaccountrevenuesrelatedtointerestrateandforeignexchange
contractstotaled$16millionin2010,comparedwith$10millionin2009and$21millionin2008.Those
fluctuationsrelatedpredominantlytochangesinnewvolumesofinterestrateswapagreementtransac-
tionsexecutedonbehalfofcommercialcustomers.Tradingaccountassetsheldinconnectionwith

deferredcompensationplanswere$35millionand$36millionatDecember31,2010and2009,
respectively.Tradingaccountrevenuesresultingfromnetincreasesordecreasesinthemarketvaluesof
suchassetswere$3millionand$4millionin2010and2009,respectively,comparedwithlossesof
$12millionin2008.Alargelyoffsettingimpactonexpensesresultingfromcorrespondingincreasesor
decreasesinliabilitiesrelatedtodeferredcompensationisincludedinﬁothercostsofoperations.ﬂ
Includingother-than-temporaryimpairmentlosses,theCompanyrecognizednetlosseson
investmentsecuritiesof$84millionduring2010,comparedwith$137millionand$148millionin2009
and2008,respectively.Other-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesof$86million,$138millionand
$182millionwererecordedin2010,2009and2008,respectively.TheCompanyrecognizedimpairment
chargesduring2010of$68millionrelatedtocertainprivatelyissuedCMOsbackedbyresidentialand

commercialrealestateloans,$6millionrelatedtoCDOsbackedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedby
financialinstitutionsandotherentities,anda$12millionwrite-downofAIBADSs.TheAIBADSswere
obtainedinaprioracquisitionofasubsidiaryofAIBandareheldtosatisfyoptionstopurchasesuch
sharesgrantedbythatsubsidiarytocertainofitsemployees.During2009,theCompanyrecognized
impairmentchargesoncertainprivatelyissuedCMOsbackedbyresidentialrealestateloansof
$128millionandCDOsbackedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesof$10million.Theimpairmentcharges
recognizedin2008includedwrite-downsof$153millionrelatedtopreferredstockissuancesofFannie

MaeandFreddieMacand$29millionrelatedtoCMOsandCDOsintheinvestmentsecuritiesportfolio,
andwerepartiallyoffsetbyagainof$33millionrelatedtothemandatoryredemptionofcommonshares
ofVisaduringthefirstquarterofthatyear.EachreportingperiodtheCompanyreviewsitsimpaired
investmentsecuritiesforother-than-temporaryimpairment.Forequitysecurities,suchastheCompany™s
holdingofAIBADSsanditsinvestmentinthepreferredstockofFannieMaeandFreddieMac,the

Companyconsidersvariousfactorstodetermineifthedeclineinvalueisotherthantemporary,including
thedurationandextentofthedeclineinvalue,thefactorscontributingtothedeclineinfairvalue,
includingthefinancialconditionoftheissueraswellastheconditionsoftheindustryinwhichit
operates,andtheprospectsforarecoveryinfairvalueoftheequitysecurity.Fordebtsecurities,the
Companyanalyzesthecreditworthinessoftheissuerorreviewsthecreditperformanceoftheunderlying
collateralsupportingthebond.Fordebtsecuritiesbackedbypoolsofloans,suchasprivatelyissued
mortgage-backedsecurities,theCompanyestimatesthecashflowsoftheunderlyingloancollateralusing

forward-lookingassumptionsofdefaultrates,lossseveritiesandprepaymentspeeds.Estimatedcollateral
cashflowsarethenutilizedtoestimatebond-specificcashflowstodeterminetheultimatecollectibilityof
thebond.IfthepresentvalueofthecashflowsindicatesthattheCompanyshouldnotexpecttorecover
theentireamortizedcostbasisofabondoriftheCompanyintendstosellthebondoritmorelikely
thannotwillberequiredtosellthebondbeforerecoveryofitsamortizedcostbasis,another-than-tem-

poraryimpairmentlossisrecognized.Ifanother-than-temporaryimpairmentlossisdeemedtohave
occurred,theinvestmentsecurity™scostbasisisadjusted,asappropriateforthecircumstances.Additional
informationaboutother-than-temporaryimpairmentlossesisincludedhereinundertheheading
ﬁCapitalﬂ.
M&T™sshareoftheoperatinglossesofBLGwas$26millionineachof2010and2009,compared
with$37millionin2008.TheoperatinglossesofBLGinthoseyearsresultedfromthedisruptionsinthe
privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesmarketandhigherprovisionsforlossesassociatedwith
securitizedloansandotherloansheldbyBLG,andcostsassociatedwithseveranceandcertainlease
terminationsincurredbyBLGasitdownsizeditsoperations.Despitethecreditandliquiditydisruptions
thatbeganin2007,BLGhadbeensuccessfullysecuritizingandsellingsignificantvolumesofsmall-

balancecommercialrealestateloansuntilthefirstquarterof2008.Inresponsetotheilliquidityinthe
marketplacesincethattime,BLGreduceditsoriginationsactivities,scaledbackitsworkforceandmade
useofitscontingentliquiditysources.Asaresultofpastsecuritizationactivities,BLGisentitledtocash

flowsfrommortgageassetsthatitownsorthatareownedbyitsaffiliatesandisalsoentitledtoreceive
distributionsfromaffiliatesthatprovideassetmanagementandotherservices.Accordingly,theCompany
believesthatBLGiscapableofrealizingpositivecashflowsthatcouldbeavailablefordistributiontoits

owners,includingM&T,despitealackofpositiveGAAP-earnings.InassessingM&T™sinvestmentinBLG
forother-than-temporaryimpairmentatDecember31,2010,theCompanyprojectednofurthercommer-
cialmortgageoriginationandsecuritizationactivitiesbyBLG.Withrespecttomortgageassetsheldby

BLGanditsaffiliates,M&Testimatedfuturecashflowsfromthoseassetsusingvariousassumptionsfor
futuredefaultsandlossseveritiestoarriveatanexpectedamountofcashflowsthatcouldbeavailableto
distributetoM&T.AsofDecember31,2010,theweighted-averageassumptionofprojecteddefault

percentageontheunderlyingmortgageloancollateralsupportingthosemortgageassetswas31%andthe
weighted-averagelossseverityassumptionwas66%.Lastly,M&Tconsidereddifferentscenariosof
projectedcashflowsthatcouldbegeneratedbytheassetmanagementandservicingoperationsofBLG™s

affiliates.M&Tiscontractuallyentitledtoparticipateindistributionsfromthoseaffiliates.Suchestimates
werederivedfromcompany-providedforecastsoffinancialresultsandthroughdiscussionswiththeir
seniormanagementwithrespecttolonger-termprojectionsofgrowthinassetsundermanagementand

assetservicingportfolios.M&Tthendiscountedthevariousprojectionsusingdiscountratesthatranged
from8%to17%.Uponevaluationofthoseresults,managementconcludedthatM&T™sinvestmentin
BLGwasnotother-than-temporarilyimpairedatDecember31,2010.Nevertheless,ifBLGisnotableto

realizesufficientcashflowsforthebenefitofM&T,theCompanymayberequiredtorecognizean
other-than-temporaryimpairmentchargeinafutureperiodforsomeportionofthe$220millionbook
valueofitsinvestmentinBLG.InformationabouttheCompany™srelationshipwithBLGanditsaffiliates

isincludedinnote25ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Otherrevenuesfromoperationstotaled$355millionin2010,comparedwith$325millionin
2009and$300millionin2008.Contributingtothe9%improvementfrom2009to2010werea
$12millionriseinletterofcreditandothercredit-relatedfeesandincreasesinmerchantdiscountand

creditcardfees,underwritingandinvestmentadvisoryfees,andothermiscellaneousfeesandrevenues.
Reflectedinotherrevenuesfromoperationsin2010and2009weremerger-relatedgainsof$28million
and$29million,respectively,relatedtotheKBankandBradfordtransactions.Theimprovementfrom

2008to2009reflectsthe$29millionBradford-relatedgainrecognizedin2009offset,inpart,bymodest
declinesinothermiscellaneousfeesandrevenues.
Includedinotherrevenuesfromoperationswerethefollowingsignificantcomponents.Letterof
creditandothercredit-relatedfeestotaled$112million,$100millionand$97millionin2010,2009and
2008,respectively.Theriseinsuchfeesfrom2009to2010wasduelargelytohigherincomefrom
providingletterofcreditandloansyndicationservices.Tax-exemptincomeearnedfrombankownedlife

insuranceaggregated$50millionin2010and$49millionineachof2009and2008.Suchincome
includesincreasesincashsurrendervalueoflifeinsurancepoliciesandbenefitsreceived.Revenuesfrom
merchantdiscountandcreditcardfeeswere$46millionin2010and$40millionineachof2009and

2008.Theincreasedrevenuesin2010werelargelyattributabletohighertransactionvolumesrelatedto
merchantactivityandusageoftheCompany™scommercialcreditcardproduct.Insurance-relatedsales
commissionsandotherrevenuestotaled$40millionin2010,$42millionin2009and$31millionin

2008.Automatedtellermachineusagefeesaggregated$18millionin2010,$19millionin2009and
$17millionin2008.
OtherExpense
Otherexpenseaggregated$1.91billionin2010,comparedwith$1.98billionin2009and$1.73billionin
2008.Includedinsuchamountsareexpensesconsideredtobeﬁnonoperatingﬂinnatureconsistingof
amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsof$58million,$64millionand$67millionin

2010,2009and2008,respectively,andmerger-relatedexpensesof$771thousandin2010,$89millionin
722009and$4millionin2008.Exclusiveofthosenonoperatingexpenses,noninterestoperatingexpenses
were$1.86billionin2010,up2%from$1.83billionin2009.Thatincreasewaslargelyattributableto
highercostsforprofessionalservices,advertisingandpromotion,occupancyexpensesrelatedtothe
acquiredoperationsofProvident,anda$22millionreductionoftheallowanceforimpairmentof

capitalizedresidentialmortgageservicingrightsin2009.Therewasnochangetothatimpairment
allowancefortheyearendedDecember31,2010.Reflectedinnoninterestoperatingexpensesin2010was
thefull-yearimpactoftheacquiredoperationsofProvidentandBradford.Partiallyoffsettingthehigher

costsin2010weredeclinesinexpensesrelatedtoforeclosedrealestatepropertiesandFDICassessments.
Noninterestoperatingexpenseswere$1.66billionin2008.Themostsignificantfactorsfortherisein
operatingexpensesfrom2008to2009werecostsassociatedwiththeacquiredoperationsofProvident

andBradford,a$90millionincreaseinFDICassessments(includingapproximately$9millionrelatingto
depositsfromProvidentandBradford)andhigherforeclosure-relatedexpenses.Theimpactofthose
increaseswasmitigatedbyareversalofthevaluationallowanceforcapitalizedresidentialmortgage

servicingrightsof$22millionin2009,ascomparedwithanadditiontothatvaluationallowanceof
$16millionin2008.
Salariesandemployeebenefitsexpensetotaled$1.00billionineachof2010and2009,compared
with$957millionin2008.Increasedincentivecompensationcostsandthefull-yearimpactofthe2009
acquisitiontransactionsin2010werelargelyoffsetbya$10milliondeclineinmerger-relatedsalariesand
employeebenefitsexpensesthatconsistedpredominantlyofseveranceexpenseforProvidentemployees.

Thehigherexpenselevelsin2009ascomparedwith2008reflecttheimpactofthe2009acquisition
transactions.Alsocontributingtotheincreasedexpensesin2009werehighercostsforprovidingmedical
andpensionbenefits.Stock-basedcompensationtotaled$54millionineachof2010and2009,and

$50millionin2008.Thenumberoffull-timeequivalentemployeeswas12,802atDecember31,2010,
comparedwith13,639and12,978atDecember31,2009and2008,respectively.
TheCompanyprovidespensionandotherpostretirementbenefits(includingaretirementsavings
plan)foritsemployees.Expensesrelatedtosuchbenefitstotaled$66millionin2010,$60millionin
2009and$52millionin2008.TheCompanysponsorsbothdefinedbenefitanddefinedcontribution
pensionplans.Pensionbenefitexpenseforthoseplanswas$38millionin2010,$32millionin2009and

$23millionin2008.Includedinthoseamountsare$14millionin2010,$11millionin2009and
$10millionin2008foradefinedcontributionpensionplanthattheCompanybeganonJanuary1,2006.
Thedeterminationofpensionexpenseandtherecognitionofnetpensionassetsandliabilitiesfordefined

benefitpensionplansrequiresmanagementtomakevariousassumptionsthatcansignificantlyimpact
theactuarialcalculationsrelatedthereto.Thoseassumptionsincludetheexpectedlong-termrateof
returnonplanassets,therateofincreaseinfuturecompensationlevelsandthediscountrate.Changesin

anyofthoseassumptionswillimpacttheCompany™spensionexpense.Theexpectedlong-termrateof
returnassumptionisdeterminedbytakingintoconsiderationassetallocations,historicalreturnsonthe
typesofassetsheldandcurrenteconomicfactors.Returnsoninvestedassetsareperiodicallycompared

withtargetmarketindicesforeachassettypetoaidmanagementinevaluatingsuchreturns.The
discountrateusedbytheCompanytodeterminethepresentvalueoftheCompany™sfuturebenefit
obligationsreflectsspecificmarketyieldsforahypotheticalportfolioofhighlyratedcorporatebondsthat

wouldproducecashflowssimilartotheCompany™sbenefitplanobligationsandthelevelofmarket
interestratesingeneralasoftheyear-end.Otherfactorsusedtoestimatetheprojectedbenefit
obligationsincludeactuarialassumptionsformortalityrate,turnoverrate,retirementrateanddisability

rate.Thoseotherfactorsdonottendtochangesignificantlyovertime.TheCompanyreviewsitspension
planassumptionsannuallytoensurethatsuchassumptionsarereasonableandadjuststhoseassumptions,
asnecessary,toreflectchangesinfutureexpectations.TheCompanyutilizesactuariesandotherstoaid

inthatassessment.
TheCompany™s2010pensionexpenseforitsdefinedbenefitplanswasdeterminedusingthe
followingassumptions:along-termrateofreturnonassetsof6.50%;arateoffuturecompensation

increaseof4.50%;andadiscountrateof5.75%.Todemonstratethesensitivityofpensionexpenseto
changesintheCompany™spensionplanassumptions,25basispointincreasesin:therateofreturnon
planassetswouldhaveresultedinadecreaseinpensionexpenseof$2million;therateofincreasein

compensationwouldhaveresultedinanincreaseinpensionexpenseof$.3million;andthediscountrate
73wouldhaveresultedinadecreaseinpensionexpenseof$3million.Decreasesof25basispointsinthose
assumptionswouldhaveresultedinsimilarchangesinamount,butintheoppositedirectionfromthe
changespresentedintheprecedingsentence.Theaccountingguidancefordefinedbenefitpensionplans
reflectsthelong-termnatureofbenefitobligationsandtheinvestmenthorizonofplanassets,andhasthe
effectofreducingexpensevolatilityrelatedtoshort-termchangesininterestratesandmarketvaluations.
Actuarialgainsandlossesincludetheimpactofplanamendments,inadditiontovariousgainsandlosses
resultingfromchangesinassumptionsandinvestmentreturnswhicharedifferentfromthatwhichwas
assumed.AsofDecember31,2010,theCompanyhadcumulativeunrecognizedactuariallossesof
approximately$233millionthatcouldresultinanincreaseintheCompany™sfuturepensionexpense
dependingonseveralfactors,includingwhethersuchlossesateachmeasurementdateexceedtenpercent
ofthegreateroftheprojectedbenefitobligationorthemarket-relatedvalueofplanassets.Inaccordance
withGAAP,netunrecognizedgainsorlossesthatexceedthatthresholdarerequiredtobeamortizedover
theexpectedserviceperiodofactiveemployees,andareincludedasacomponentofnetpensioncost.
AmortizationofthesenetunrealizedlosseshadtheeffectofincreasingtheCompany™spensionexpense
byapproximately$14millionin2010,$10millionin2009and$4millionin2008.
GAAPrequiresanemployertorecognizeinitsbalancesheetasanassetorliabilitytheoverfunded
orunderfundedstatusofadefinedbenefitpostretirementplan,measuredasthedifferencebetweenthe
fairvalueofplanassetsandthebenefitobligation.Forapensionplan,thebenefitobligationisthe
projectedbenefitobligation;foranyotherpostretirementbenefitplan,suchasaretireehealthcareplan,
thebenefitobligationistheaccumulatedpostretirementbenefitobligation.Gainsorlossesandprior
servicecostsorcreditsthatariseduringtheperiod,butarenotincludedascomponentsofnetperiodic
benefitcost,aretoberecognizedasacomponentofothercomprehensiveincome.AsofDecember31,
2010,thecombinedbenefitobligationsoftheCompany™sdefinedbenefitpostretirementplansexceeded
thefairvalueoftheassetsofsuchplansbyapproximately$171million.Ofthatamount,$43millionwas
relatedtoqualifieddefinedbenefitplansthatareperiodicallyfundedbytheCompanyand$128million
relatedtonon-qualifiedpensionandotherpostretirementbenefitplansthataregenerallynotfunded
untilbenefitsarepaid.TheCompanywasrequiredtohaveanetpensionandpostretirementbenefit
liabilityforthoseplansthatwasatleastequalto$171millionatDecember31,2010.Accordingly,asof
December31,2010theCompanyrecordedanadditionalpostretirementbenefitliabilityof$199million.
Afterapplicabletaxeffect,thatliabilityreducedaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome(andthereby
shareholders™equity)by$121million.Theresultofthiswasayear-over-yearincreaseof$6milliontothe
requiredminimumpostretirementbenefitliabilityfromthe$193millionrecordedatDecember31,2009.

Afterapplicabletaxeffect,the$6millionincreaseintheminimumrequiredliabilitydecreasedaccumu-
latedothercomprehensiveincomein2010by$4millionfromtheprioryear-endamountof$117million.
The$6millionincreasetotheliabilitywastheresultoflossesthatoccurredduring2010resultingfrom
actualexperiencedifferingfromactuarialassumptionsandfromchangesinthoseassumptions.Those
lossesreflectareductioninthediscountrateusedtomeasurethebenefitobligationsofthedefined
benefitplansatDecember31,2010ascomparedwithayearearlier,offsetbyactualinvestmentreturnsin
thequalifieddefinedbenefitpensionplanthatexceededexpectedreturns.Indeterminingthebenefit
obligationfordefinedbenefitpostretirementplanstheCompanyusedadiscountrateof5.25%at
December31,2010and5.75%atDecember31,2009.A25basispointdecreaseintheassumeddiscount
rateasofDecember31,2010to5.0%wouldhaveresultedinincreasesinthecombinedbenefit
obligationsofalldefinedbenefitpostretirementplans(includingpensionandotherplans)of$35million.
Underthatscenario,theminimumpostretirementliabilityadjustmentatDecember31,2010wouldhave
been$234million,ratherthanthe$199millionthatwasactuallyrecorded,andthecorrespondingafter
tax-effectchargetoaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincomeatDecember31,2010wouldhavebeen
$142million,ratherthanthe$121millionthatwasactuallyrecorded.A25basispointincreaseinthe
assumeddiscountrateto5.50%wouldhavedecreasedthecombinedbenefitobligationsofalldefined
benefitpostretirementplansby$33million.Underthislatterscenario,theaggregateminimumliability
adjustmentatDecember31,2010wouldhavebeen$166millionratherthanthe$199millionactually
recordedandthecorrespondingaftertax-effectchargetoaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincome
wouldhavebeen$101millionratherthan$121million.TheCompanywasnotrequiredtoanddidnot
makeanycontributionstoitsqualifieddefinedbenefitpensionplanin2010.Duringthesecondquarter
74of2009,theCompanyelectedtocontribute900,000sharesofcommonstockofM&Thavingafairvalue
of$44milliontoitsqualifieddefinedbenefitpensionplan.During2008,theCompanymadecash

contributionstoitsqualifieddefinedbenefitpensionplantotaling$140million.Informationaboutthe
Company™spensionplans,includingsignificantassumptionsutilizedincompletingactuarialcalculations
fortheplans,isincludedinnote12ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
TheCompanyalsoprovidesaretirementsavingsplan(ﬁRSPﬂ)thatisadefinedcontributionplan
inwhicheligibleemployeesoftheCompanymaydeferupto50%ofqualifiedcompensationvia
contributionstotheplan.TheCompanymakesanemployermatchingcontributioninanamountequal

to75%ofanemployee™scontribution,upto4.5%oftheemployee™squalifiedcompensation.RSPexpense
totaled$25millionin2010,$24millionin2009and$23millionin2008.
ExpensesassociatedwiththedefinedbenefitanddefinedcontributionpensionplansandtheRSP
totaled$62millionin2010,$56millionin2009and$47millionin2008.Expenseassociatedwith
providingmedicalandotherpostretirementbenefitswas$4millionineachof2010and2009and
$5millionin2008.
Excludingthenonoperatingexpenseitemsalreadynoted,nonpersonneloperatingexpensestotaled
$856millionin2010,up3%from$835millionin2009.Contributingtothatincreasewerehighercosts
forprofessionalservices,advertisingandpromotion,occupancyexpensesrelatedtothefull-yearimpact

oftheacquiredoperationsofProvident,anda$22millionreductionoftheallowanceforimpairmentof
capitalizedresidentialmortgageservicingrightsin2009.Therewasnochangeinsuchimpairment
allowancein2010.Partiallyoffsettingthefactorsdescribedaboveweredecreasedcostsrelatedto

foreclosedrealestatepropertiesandFDICassessmentsin2010.Nonpersonneloperatingexpenseswere
$700millionin2008.HigherFDICdepositassessmentswereasignificantcontributortotheriseinthose
expensesfrom2008to2009.Intotal,FDICassessmentsin2009were$97million,includinga$33million

specialassessmentinthesecondquarter,comparedwith$7millionin2008.Alsocontributingtothe
higherlevelofoperatingexpensesin2009ascomparedwith2008werecostsassociatedwiththeacquired
operationsofProvidentandBradfordandexpensesrelatedtotheforeclosureprocessforresidentialreal

estateproperties.A$15millionreversalinthefirstquarterof2008ofanaccrualestablishedinthefourth

quarterof2007forestimatedlossesstemmingfromcertainlitigationinvolvingVisaalsocontributedto
theyear-over-yearvariance.Partiallyoffsettingthosefactorswastheimpactofpartialreversalsofthe
valuationallowanceforimpairmentofresidentialmortgageservicingrightsin2009of$22million,

comparedwithadditionstothevaluationallowanceof$16millionin2008.
IncomeTaxes
Theprovisionforincometaxeswas$357millionin2010,comparedwith$139millionin2009and

$184millionin2008.Theeffectivetaxrateswere32.6%,26.8%and24.9%in2010,2009and2008,
respectively.Incometaxesin2008reflecttheresolutioninthatyearofpreviouslyuncertaintaxpositions
relatedtotheCompany™sactivitiesinvariousjurisdictionsduringtheyears1999-2007thatallowedthe

Companytoreduceitsaccrualforincometaxesinthethirdquarterof2008by$40million.Theeffective
taxrateisaffectedbythelevelofincomeearnedthatisexemptfromtaxrelativetotheoveralllevelof
pre-taxincome,thelevelofincomeallocatedtothevariousstateandlocaljurisdictionswherethe

Companyoperates,becausetaxratesdifferamongsuchjurisdictions,andtheimpactofanylargebut
infrequentlyoccurringitems.Forexample,althoughthemerger-relatedexpensesincurredduring2009
arepredominantlydeductibleforpurposesofcomputingincometaxexpense,thosechargeshadan

impactontheeffectivetaxratebecausetheyloweredpre-taxincomerelativetotheamountsoftax-
exemptincomeandotherpermanentdifferencesthatimpacttheeffectivetaxrate.Excludingtheimpact
of(i)other-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesin2010,2009and2008;(ii)netmerger-relatedgainsof

$27millionin2010andnetmerger-relatedexpensesof$60millionin2009and$4millionin2008;and
(iii)thecredittoincometaxexpensenotedaboveof$40millionin2008,theCompany™seffectivetax
ratesfor2010,2009and2008wouldhavebeen33.0%,30.3%,and32.1%,respectively.
TheCompany™seffectivetaxrateinfutureperiodswillbeaffectedbytheresultsofoperations
allocatedtothevarioustaxjurisdictionswithinwhichtheCompanyoperates,anychangeinincometax
lawsorregulationswithinthosejurisdictions,andinterpretationsofincometaxregulationsthatdiffer

fromtheCompany™sinterpretationsbyanyofvarioustaxauthoritiesthatmayexaminetaxreturnsfiled
75byM&Toranyofitssubsidiaries.Informationaboutamountsaccruedforuncertaintaxpositionsanda
reconciliationofincometaxexpensetotheamountcomputedbyapplyingthestatutoryfederalincome

taxratetopre-taxincomeisprovidedinnote13ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
InternationalActivities
TheCompany™snetinvestmentininternationalassetstotaled$113millionatDecember31,2010and
$62millionatDecember31,2009.Suchassetsincluded$107millionand$55million,respectively,of

loanstoforeignborrowers.DepositsintheCompany™sbranchintheCaymanIslandstotaled$1.6billion
atDecember31,2010and$1.1billionatDecember31,2009.TheCompanyusessuchdepositsto
facilitatecustomerdemandandasanalternativetoshort-termborrowingswhenthecostsofsuch

depositsseemreasonable.M&TBankopenedafull-servicecommercialbranchinOntario,Canadaduring
thesecondquarterof2010.LoansanddepositsatthatbranchasofDecember31,2010were$63million
and$4million,respectively.
Liquidity,MarketRisk,andInterestRateSensitivity
Asafinancialintermediary,theCompanyisexposedtovariousrisks,includingliquidityandmarketrisk.
LiquidityreferstotheCompany™sabilitytoensurethatsufficientcashflowandliquidassetsareavailable
tosatisfycurrentandfutureobligations,includingdemandsforloansanddepositwithdrawals,funding

operatingcosts,andothercorporatepurposes.Liquidityriskariseswheneverthematuritiesoffinancial
instrumentsincludedinassetsandliabilitiesdiffer.
CoredepositshavehistoricallybeenthemostsignificantfundingsourcefortheCompanyandare
generatedfromalargebaseofconsumer,corporateandinstitutionalcustomers.Thatcustomerbasehas,
overthepastseveralyears,becomemoregeographicallydiverseasaresultofacquisitionsandexpansion
oftheCompany™sbusinesses.Nevertheless,theCompanyfacescompetitioninofferingproductsand

servicesfromalargearrayoffinancialmarketparticipants,includingbanks,thrifts,mutualfunds,
securitiesdealersandothers.Coredepositsfinanced77%oftheCompany™searningassetsatDecember31,
2010,comparedwith72%and60%atDecember31,2009and2008,respectively.Thesubstantial

increasesintheamountofearningassetsfinancedbycoredepositsatthe2010and2009year-endsas
comparedwithDecember31,2008weretheresultofsignificantlyhigherlevelsofcoredeposits,largely
duetohighernoninterest-bearingdeposits.Additionally,asofDecember31,2010theCompanychanged

itdefinitionofcoredepositstoincludetimedepositsbelow$250,000,asalreadynoted,toreflecta

provisionintheDodd-FrankActwhichpermanentlyincreasedthemaximumamountofFDICinsurance
forfinancialinstitutionsto$250,000perdepositor.Thatmaximumhadbeen$100,000perdepositor
until2009,whenitwastemporarilyraisedto$250,000through2013.Theimpactofincludingtime

depositswithbalancesof$100,000to$250,000added$1.0billiontotheCompany™scoredepositstotalat
December31,2010.
TheCompanysupplementsfundingprovidedthroughcoredepositswithvariousshort-termand
long-termwholesaleborrowings,includingfederalfundspurchasedandsecuritiessoldunderagreements
torepurchase,brokeredcertificatesofdeposit,CaymanIslandsbranchdepositsandborrowingsfromthe
FHLBsandothers.AtDecember31,2010,M&TBankhadshort-termandlong-termcreditfacilitieswith

theFHLBsaggregating$6.0billion.OutstandingborrowingsunderFHLBcreditfacilitiestotaled
$2.9billionand$5.4billionatDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.Suchborrowingsweresecured
byloansandinvestmentsecurities.M&TBankandM&TBank,N.A.hadavailablelinesofcreditwith

theFederalReserveBankofNewYorkthattotaledapproximately$9.9billionatDecember31,2010.The
amountsofthoselinesaredependentuponthebalancesofloansandsecuritiespledgedascollateral.
TherewerenoborrowingsoutstandingundersuchlinesofcreditatDecember31,2010orDecember31,

2009.TheCompanyhas,fromtimetotime,issuedsubordinatedcapitalnotesandjuniorsubordinated
debenturesassociatedwithpreferredcapitalsecuritiestoprovideliquidityandenhanceregulatorycapital

ratios.SuchnotesqualifyforinclusionintheCompany™scapitalasdefinedbyFederalregulators.
InformationabouttheCompany™sborrowingsisincludedinnote9ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
TheCompanyhasinformalandsometimesreciprocalsourcesoffundingavailablethroughvarious
arrangementsforunsecuredshort-termborrowingsfromawidegroupofbanksandotherfinancial
76institutions.Short-termfederalfundsborrowingswere$826millionand$2.1billionatDecember31,
2010and2009,respectively.Ingeneral,thoseborrowingswereunsecuredandmaturedonthenext

businessday.Asalreadynoted,CaymanIslandsbranchdepositsandbrokeredcertificatesofdeposithave
beenusedbytheCompanyasanalternativetoshort-termborrowings.CaymanIslandsbranchdeposits
alsogenerallymatureonthenextbusinessdayandtotaled$1.6billionand$1.1billionatDecember31,

2010and2009,respectively.OutstandingbrokeredtimedepositsatDecember31,2010andDecember31,
2009were$485millionand$868million,respectively.AtDecember31,2010,theweighted-average
remainingtermtomaturityofbrokeredtimedepositswas20months.Certainofthesebrokereddeposits

haveprovisionsthatallowforearlyredemption.TheCompanyalsohadbrokeredNOWandbrokered
money-marketdepositaccountswhichaggregated$1.3billionand$618millionatDecember31,2010
and2009,respectively.Thehigherlevelofsuchdepositsatthe2010year-endresultedfromhigher

demandforthesedepositsduetotheunsettledeconomyandtheneedforbrokeragefirmstoensurethat
customerdepositsarefullyinsuredwhileearningayieldonsuchdeposits.
TheCompany™sabilitytoobtainfundingfromtheseorothersourcescouldbenegativelyimpacted
shouldtheCompanyexperienceasubstantialdeteriorationinitsfinancialconditionoritsdebtratings,
orshouldtheavailabilityofshort-termfundingbecomerestrictedduetoadisruptioninthefinancial
markets.TheCompanyattemptstoquantifysuchcredit-eventriskbymodelingscenariosthatestimate

theliquidityimpactresultingfromashort-termratingsdowngradeovervariousgradinglevels.Such
impactisestimatedbyattemptingtomeasuretheeffectonavailableunsecuredlinesofcredit,available
capacityfromsecuredborrowingsourcesandsecuritizableassets.Informationaboutthecreditratingsof

M&TandM&TBankispresentedintable15.Additionalinformationregardingthetermsandmaturities
ofalloftheCompany™sshort-termandlong-termborrowingsisprovidedinnote9ofNotestoFinancial
Statements.Inadditiontodepositsandborrowings,othersourcesofliquidityincludematuritiesof

investmentsecuritiesandotherearningassets,repaymentsofloansandinvestmentsecurities,andcash
generatedfromoperations,suchasfeescollectedforservices.
Table15
DEBTRATINGS
Moody™s
StandardandPoor™sFitch
M&TBankCorporation
Seniordebt.....
...........................................A3AŒAŒ
Subordinateddebt
...........................................
Baa1BBB+BBB+
M&TBank
Short-termdeposits..........
................................
Prime-1A-1F1
Long-termdeposits..........
................................A2AA
Seniordebt.....
...........................................A2AAŒ
Subordinateddebt
...........................................A3AŒ
BBB+7778CertaincustomersoftheCompanyobtainfinancingthroughtheissuanceofvariableratedemand
bonds(ﬁVRDBsﬂ).TheVRDBsaregenerallyenhancedbydirect-paylettersofcreditprovidedbyM&T

Bank.M&TBankoftentimesactsasremarketingagentfortheVRDBsand,atitsdiscretion,mayfrom
time-to-timeownsomeoftheVRDBswhilesuchinstrumentsareremarketed.Whenthisoccurs,the
VRDBsareclassifiedastradingassetsintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheet.Nevertheless,M&T

BankisnotcontractuallyobligatedtopurchasetheVRDBs.ThevalueofVRDBsintheCompany™s
tradingaccounttotaled$107millionand$19millionatDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.At
December31,2010and2009,theVRDBsoutstandingbackedbyM&TBanklettersofcredittotaled

$2.0billionand$1.9billion,respectively.M&TBankalsoservesasremarketingagentformostofthose
bonds.Table16
MATURITYDISTRIBUTIONOFSELECTEDLOANS(a)
December31,2010Demand20112012-2015After2015
(Inthousands)
Commercial,financial,etc..
.....................
$5,287,647$1,861,639$4,206,958$473,742
RealestateŠconstruction..
.....................
500,9091,850,8731,294,347207,462
Total.
.....................................
$5,788,556$3,712,512$5,501,305$681,204
Floatingoradjustableinterestrates.
...............
$3,532,758$297,805
Fixedorpredeterminedinterestrates
...............
1,968,547383,399
Total.
.....................................
$5,501,305$681,204
(a)Thedatadonotincludenonaccrualloans.
TheCompanyentersintocontractualobligationsinthenormalcourseofbusinesswhichrequire
futurecashpayments.ThecontractualamountsandtimingofthosepaymentsasofDecember31,2010

aresummarizedintable17.Off-balancesheetcommitmentstocustomersmayimpactliquidity,including
commitmentstoextendcredit,standbylettersofcredit,commerciallettersofcredit,financialguarantees
andindemnificationcontracts,andcommitmentstosellrealestateloans.Becausemanyofthese

commitmentsorcontractsexpirewithoutbeingfundedinwholeorinpart,thecontractamountsarenot
necessarilyindicativeoffuturecashflows.Furtherdiscussionofthesecommitmentsisprovidedinnote21
ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Table17summarizestheCompany™sothercommitmentsasof

December31,2010andthetimingoftheexpirationofsuchcommitments.
Table17
CONTRACTUALOBLIGATIONSANDOTHERCOMMITMENTS
December31,2010
LessThanOne
Year
OnetoThree
Years
ThreetoFive
Years
OverFive
YearsTotal
(Inthousands)
Paymentsdueforcontractual
obligations..
...............
Timedeposits
..............
$4,663,091$1,006,644$136,879$10,556$5,817,170
DepositsatCaymanIslands
office...................1,6
05,916ŠŠŠ1,605,916
Federalfundspurchasedand
agreementstorepurchase
securities.
...............
866,555ŠŠŠ866,555
Othershort-termborrowings...80,877ŠŠŠ80,877
Long-termborrowings...
.....1,886,8601,953,4867,5703,992,2357,840,151
Operatingleases...
..........
78,325135,74593,234137,592444,896
Other.....................
68,01438,00113,64613,264132,925
Total
.....................
$9,249,638$3,133,876$251,329$4,153,647$16,788,490
Othercommitments..
..........
Commitmentstoextendcredit..$6,544,241$4,075,968$2,686,143$3,364,843$16,671,195

Standbylettersofcredit..
.....1,849,7321,432,641479,858155,0873,917,318
Commerciallettersofcredit
....73,3613,601ŠŠ76,962
Financialguaranteesand
indemnificationcontracts
....39,036312,288282,027976,5931,609,944
Commitmentstosellrealestate
loans...................
729,3275,369ŠŠ734,696
Total
.....................
$9,235,697$5,829,867$3,448,028$4,496,523$23,010,115
M&T™sprimarysourceoffundstopayforoperatingexpenses,shareholderdividendsandtreasury
stockrepurchaseshashistoricallybeenthereceiptofdividendsfromitsbankingsubsidiaries,whichare
subjecttovariousregulatorylimitations.DividendsfromanybankingsubsidiarytoM&Tarelimitedby
theamountofearningsofthebankingsubsidiaryinthecurrentyearandthetwoprecedingyears.For

purposesofthetest,approximately$1.4billionatDecember31,2010wasavailableforpaymentof
dividendstoM&Tfrombankingsubsidiaries.Thesehistoricsourcesofcashflowhavebeenaugmented
inthepastbytheissuanceoftrustpreferredsecuritiesandseniornotespayable.Informationregarding

trustpreferredsecuritiesandtherelatedjuniorsubordinateddebenturesareincludedinnote9ofNotes
toFinancialStatements.M&Talsomaintainsa$30millionlineofcreditwithanunaffiliatedcommercial
bank,ofwhichtherewerenoborrowingsoutstandingatDecember31,2010.Asimilar$30millionline

ofcreditwasentirelyavailableforborrowingatDecember31,2009.
7980Table18
MATURITYANDTAXABLE-EQUIVALENTYIELDOFINVESTMENTSECURITIES
December31,2010
OneYear
orLess
OnetoFive
Years
FivetoTen
Years
OverTen
YearsTotal
(Dollarsinthousands)
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale(a)
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
Carryingvalue...
...............................$
35,222$24,606$2,108$1,498$63,434
Yield.....
...................................
1.51%3.27%4.02%4.57%2.35%
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
Carryingvalue...
...............................
2,15321,5288,61728,12760,425
Yield.....
...................................
6.49%2.74%6.64%4.55%4.27%
Mortgage-backedsecurities(b)
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
Carryingvalue.
...............................
195,673738,905826,3691,545,2943,306,241
Yield....
...................................
4.29%4.39%4.42%4.16%4.28%
Privatelyissuedresidential
Carryingvalue.
...............................
33,834136,246193,4321,072,0491,435,561
Yield....
...................................
3.74%3.87%3.96%3.95%3.94%
Privatelyissuedcommercial
Carryingvalue.
...............................ŠŠŠ
22,40722,407
Yield....
...................................ŠŠŠ
1.30%1.30%
Otherdebtsecurities
Carryingvalue...
...............................
2,99211,09213,933381,639409,656
Yield.....
...................................
2.58%6.03%8.16%5.17%5.28%
Equitysecurities
Carryingvalue...
...............................ŠŠŠŠ
115,768Yield.....
...................................ŠŠŠŠ
0.61%Totalinvestmentsecuritiesavailableforsale
Carryingvalue...
...............................
269,874932,3771,044,4593,051,0145,413,492
Yield.....
...................................
3.86%4.26%4.40%4.19%4.15%
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
Carryingvalue...
...............................
28,16110,628138,36113,969191,119
Yield.....
...................................
4.69%5.50%5.45%9.74%5.65%
Mortgage-backedsecurities(b)
Governmentissuedorguaranteed.
....................
Carryingvalue.
...............................
44,469198,946303,757260,936808,108
Yield....
...................................
3.15%3.15%3.15%3.15%3.15%
Privatelyissued
Carryingvalue.
...............................
22,05081,59799,905108,985312,537
Yield....
...................................
2.98%2.89%2.67%3.06%2.89%
Otherdebtsecurities
Carryingvalue...
...............................ŠŠŠ
12,57512,575
Yield.....
...................................ŠŠŠ
5.42%5.42%
Totalinvestmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity
Carryingvalue...
...............................
94,680291,171542,023396,4651,324,339
Yield.....
...................................
3.57%3.16%3.65%3.43%3.47%
Otherinvestmentsecurities
............................ŠŠŠŠ
412,709Totalinvestmentsecurities
Carryingvalue...
...............................
$364,554$1,223,5481,586,4823,447,4797,150,540
Yield.....
...................................
3.78%4.00%4.14%4.09%3.78%
(a)Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsalearepresentedatestimatedfairvalue.Yieldsonsuchsecuritiesarebased
onamortizedcost.
(b)Maturitiesarereflectedbaseduponcontractualpaymentsdue.Actualmaturitiesareexpectedtobesignifi-
cantlyshorterasaresultofloanrepaymentsintheunderlyingmortgagepools.
81ManagementcloselymonitorstheCompany™sliquiditypositiononanongoingbasisforcompli-
ancewithinternalpoliciesandbelievesthatavailablesourcesofliquidityareadequatetomeetfunding

needsanticipatedinthenormalcourseofbusiness.Managementdoesnotanticipateengaginginany
activities,eithercurrentlyorinthelong-term,forwhichadequatefundingwouldnotbeavailableand
wouldthereforeresultinasignificantstrainonliquidityateitherM&Toritssubsidiarybanks.
Marketriskistheriskoflossfromadversechangesinthemarketpricesand/orinterestratesof
theCompany™sfinancialinstruments.TheprimarymarketrisktheCompanyisexposedtoisinterestrate
risk.InterestrateriskarisesfromtheCompany™scorebankingactivitiesoflendinganddeposit-taking,

becauseassetsandliabilitiesrepriceatdifferenttimesandbydifferentamountsasinterestrateschange.
Asaresult,netinterestincomeearnedbytheCompanyissubjecttotheeffectsofchanginginterestrates.
TheCompanymeasuresinterestrateriskbycalculatingthevariabilityofnetinterestincomeinfuture

periodsundervariousinterestratescenariosusingprojectedbalancesforearningassets,interest-bearing
liabilitiesandderivativesusedtohedgeinterestraterisk.Management™sphilosophytowardinterestrate
riskmanagementistolimitthevariabilityofnetinterestincome.Thebalancesoffinancialinstruments

usedintheprojectionsarebasedonexpectedgrowthfromforecastedbusinessopportunities,anticipated
prepaymentsofloansandinvestmentsecurities,andexpectedmaturitiesofinvestmentsecurities,loans
anddeposits.Managementusesaﬁvalueofequityﬂmodeltosupplementthemodelingtechnique

describedabove.Thosesupplementalanalysesarebasedondiscountedcashflowsassociatedwithon-
andoff-balancesheetfinancialinstruments.Suchanalysesaremodeledtoreflectchangesininterestrates
andprovidemanagementwithalong-terminterestrateriskmetric.TheCompanyhasenteredinto

interestrateswapagreementstohelpmanageexposuretointerestraterisk.AtDecember31,2010,the
aggregatenotionalamountofinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintoforinterestrateriskmanage-
mentpurposeswas$900million.Informationaboutinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintofor

interestrateriskmanagementpurposesisincludedhereinundertheheadingﬁNetInterestIncome/
LendingandFundingActivitiesﬂandinnote18ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
Table19
MATURITYOFDOMESTICCERTIFICATESOFDEPOSITANDTIMEDEPOSITS
WITHBALANCESOF$100,000ORMORE
December31,2010
(Inthousands)
Under3months.
.........................................................$
462,2853to6months...
.........................................................
318,3726to12months..
.........................................................
513,970Over12months.
.........................................................
227,771Total..
...............................................................
$1,522,398TheCompany™sRiskManagementCommittee,whichincludesmembersofseniormanagement,
monitorsthesensitivityoftheCompany™snetinterestincometochangesininterestrateswiththeaidof
acomputermodelthatforecastsnetinterestincomeunderdifferentinterestratescenarios.Inmodeling
changinginterestrates,theCompanyconsidersdifferentyieldcurveshapesthatconsiderbothparallel

(thatis,simultaneouschangesininterestratesateachpointontheyieldcurve)andnon-parallel(thatis,
allowinginterestratesatpointsontheyieldcurvetovarybydifferentamounts)shiftsintheyieldcurve.
Inutilizingthemodel,marketimpliedforwardinterestratesoverthesubsequenttwelvemonthsare

generallyusedtodetermineabaseinterestratescenarioforthenetinterestincomesimulation.That
calculatedbasenetinterestincomeisthencomparedtotheincomecalculatedunderthevaryinginterest
ratescenarios.Themodelconsiderstheimpactofongoinglendinganddeposit-gatheringactivities,as

wellasinterrelationshipsinthemagnitudeandtimingoftherepricingoffinancialinstruments,including
theeffectofchanginginterestratesonexpectedprepaymentsandmaturities.Whendeemedprudent,
managementhastakenactionstomitigateexposuretointerestrateriskthroughtheuseofon-oroff-

balancesheetfinancialinstrumentsandintendstodosointhefuture.Possibleactionsinclude,butare
notlimitedto,changesinthepricingofloananddepositproducts,modifyingthecompositionof
earningassetsandinterest-bearingliabilities,andaddingto,modifyingorterminatingexistinginterest

rateswapagreementsorotherfinancialinstrumentsusedforinterestrateriskmanagementpurposes.
Table20displaysasofDecember31,2010and2009theestimatedimpactonnetinterestincome
fromnon-tradingfinancialinstrumentsinthebasescenariodescribedaboveresultingfromparallel

changesininterestratesacrossrepricingcategoriesduringthefirstmodelingyear.
Table20
SENSITIVITYOFNETINTERESTINCOMETOCHANGESININTERESTRATES
ChangesinInterestRates
20102009
CalculatedIncrease
(Decrease)inProjected
NetInterestIncome
December31
(Inthousands)
+200basispoints..
...................................................$
67,255$33,974
+100basispoints..
...................................................
35,59419,989
100basispoints..
...................................................
(40,760)(37,775)
200basispoints..
...................................................
(61,720)(61,729)
TheCompanyutilizedmanyassumptionstocalculatetheimpactthatchangesininterestrates
mayhaveonnetinterestincome.Themoresignificantofthoseassumptionsincludedtherateof
prepaymentsofmortgage-relatedassets,cashflowsfromderivativeandotherfinancialinstrumentsheld
fornon-tradingpurposes,loananddepositvolumesandpricing,anddepositmaturities.Inthescenarios

presented,theCompanyalsoassumedgradualchangesinratesduringatwelve-monthperiodof100and
200basispoints,ascomparedwiththeassumedbasescenario.Intheeventthata100or200basispoint
ratechangecannotbeachieved,theapplicableratechangesarelimitedtolesseramountssuchthat

interestratescannotbelessthanzero.Theassumptionsusedininterestratesensitivitymodelingare
inherentlyuncertainand,asaresult,theCompanycannotpreciselypredicttheimpactofchangesin
interestratesonnetinterestincome.Actualresultsmaydiffersignificantlyfromthosepresenteddueto

thetiming,magnitudeandfrequencyofchangesininterestratesandchangesinmarketconditionsand
interestratedifferentials(spreads)betweenmaturity/repricingcategories,aswellasanyactions,suchas
thosepreviouslydescribed,whichmanagementmaytaketocountersuchchanges.Inlightofthe

uncertaintiesandassumptionsassociatedwiththeprocess,theamountspresentedinthetablearenot
consideredsignificanttotheCompany™spastorprojectednetinterestincome.
Table21presentscumulativetotalsofnetassets(liabilities)repricingonacontractualbasiswithin
thespecifiedtimeframes,asadjustedfortheimpactofinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintofor

interestrateriskmanagementpurposes.Managementbelievesthatthismeasuredoesnotappropriately
depictinterestraterisksincechangesininterestratesdonotnecessarilyaffectallcategoriesofearning
assetsandinterest-bearingliabilitiesequallynor,asassumedinthetable,onthecontractualmaturityor

repricingdate.Furthermore,thisstaticpresentationofinterestrateriskfailstoconsidertheeffectof
ongoinglendinganddepositgatheringactivities,projectedchangesinbalancesheetcompositionorany
subsequentinterestrateriskmanagementactivitiestheCompanyislikelytoimplement.
8283Table21
CONTRACTUALREPRICINGDATA
December31,2010
ThreeMonths
orLess
FourtoTwelve
Months
Oneto
FiveYears
AfterFiveYearsTotal
(Dollarsinthousands)
Loansandleases,net
.................
$27,784,030$4,365,598$11,749,151$8,091,603$51,990,382
Investmentsecurities
.................
1,627,491409,068545,0734,568,9087,150,540
Otherearningassets
..................
292,36170096Š293,157
Totalearningassets
.................
29,703,8824,775,36612,294,32012,660,51159,434,079
NOWaccounts
.....................
1,393,349ŠŠŠ1,393,349
Savingsdeposits
....................
26,431,281ŠŠŠ26,431,281
Timedeposits
......................
1,520,0523,150,0921,136,47010,5565,817,170
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
........
1,604,2521,664ŠŠ1,605,916
Totalinterest-bearingdeposits
..........
30,948,9343,151,7561,136,47010,55635,247,716
Short-termborrowings
................
947,432ŠŠŠ947,432
Long-termborrowings
................
3,153,303242,707958,9513,485,1907,840,151
Totalinterest-bearingliabilities
.........
35,049,6693,394,4632,095,4213,495,74644,035,299
Interestrateswaps
...................
(900,000)ŠŠ900,000Š
Periodicgap.......................$
(6,245,787)$1,380,903$10,198,899$10,064,765
Cumulativegap
.....................
(6,245,787)(4,864,884)5,334,01515,398,780
Cumulativegapasa%oftotalearning
assets..
........................
(10.5)%(8.2)%9.0%25.9%
ChangesinfairvalueoftheCompany™sfinancialinstrumentscanalsoresultfromalackoftrading
activityforsimilarinstrumentsinthefinancialmarkets.Thatimpactismostnotableonthevalues
assignedtotheCompany™sinvestmentsecurities.Informationaboutthefairvaluationofsuchsecurities
ispresentedhereinundertheheadingﬁCapitalﬂandinnotes3and20ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
TheCompanyengagesintradingactivitiestomeetthefinancialneedsofcustomers,tofundthe
Company™sobligationsundercertaindeferredcompensationplansand,toalimitedextent,toprofitfrom
perceivedmarketopportunities.Financialinstrumentsutilizedintradingactivitiesconsistpredominantly
ofinterestratecontracts,suchasswapagreements,andforwardandfuturescontractsrelatedtoforeign

currencies,buthavealsoincludedforwardandfuturescontractsrelatedtomortgage-backedsecurities
andinvestmentsinU.S.Treasuryandothergovernmentsecurities,mortgage-backedsecuritiesand
mutualfundsand,aspreviouslydescribed,alimitednumberofVRDBs.TheCompanygenerally

mitigatestheforeigncurrencyandinterestrateriskassociatedwithtradingactivitiesbyenteringinto
offsettingtradingpositions.Thefairvaluesoftheoffsettingtradingpositionsassociatedwithinterestrate
contractsandforeigncurrencyandotheroptionandfuturescontractsispresentedinnote18ofNotesto

FinancialStatements.Theamountsofgrossandnettradingpositions,aswellasthetypeoftrading
activitiesconductedbytheCompany,aresubjecttoawell-definedseriesofpotentiallossexposurelimits
establishedbymanagementandapprovedbyM&T™sBoardofDirectors.However,aswithanynon-

governmentguaranteedfinancialinstrument,theCompanyisexposedtocreditriskassociatedwith
counterpartiestotheCompany™stradingactivities.
Thenotionalamountsofinterestratecontractsenteredintofortradingpurposesaggregated
$12.8billionatDecember31,2010and$13.9billionatDecember31,2009.Thenotionalamountsof
foreigncurrencyandotheroptionandfuturescontractsenteredintofortradingpurposestotaled
$769millionand$608millionatDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.Althoughthenotional

amountsofthesetradingcontractsarenotrecordedintheconsolidatedbalancesheet,thefairvaluesof
allfinancialinstrumentsusedfortradingactivitiesarerecordedintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.The
fairvaluesoftradingaccountassetsandliabilitieswere$524millionand$333million,respectively,at

December31,2010and$387millionand$302million,respectively,atDecember31,2009.Includedin
84tradingaccountassetsatDecember31,2010and2009were$35millionand$36million,respectively,of
assetsrelatedtodeferredcompensationplans.Changesinthefairvalueofsuchassetsarerecordedas

ﬁtradingaccountandforeignexchangegainsﬂintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.Includedin
ﬁotherliabilitiesﬂintheconsolidatedbalancesheetatDecember31,2010and2009were$36millionand
$38million,respectively,ofliabilitiesrelatedtodeferredcompensationplans.Changesinthebalancesof

suchliabilitiesduetothevaluationofallocatedinvestmentoptionstowhichtheliabilitiesareindexed
arerecordedinﬁothercostsofoperationsﬂintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.
GiventheCompany™spolicies,limitsandpositions,managementbelievesthatthepotentialloss
exposuretotheCompanyresultingfrommarketriskassociatedwithtradingactivitieswasnotmaterial,
however,aspreviouslynoted,theCompanyisexposedtocreditriskassociatedwithcounterpartiesto
transactionsassociatedwiththeCompany™stradingactivities.Additionalinformationaboutthe

Company™suseofderivativefinancialinstrumentsinitstradingactivitiesisincludedinnote18ofNotes
toFinancialStatements.
CapitalShareholders™equitywas$8.4billionatDecember31,2010andrepresented12.29%oftotalassets,
comparedwith$7.8billionor11.26%atDecember31,2009and$6.8billionor10.31%atDecember31,
2008.Includedinshareholders™equityateachofthosedateswas$600millionofFixedRateCumulative

PerpetualPreferredStock,SeriesA,andwarrantstopurchaseM&Tcommonstockissuedon
December23,2008aspartoftheU.S.TreasuryCapitalPurchaseProgram.Thefinancialstatementvalue
ofthatpreferredstockwas$579millionatDecember31,2010,$573millionatDecember31,2009and

$567millionatDecember31,2008.ProvidentalsoparticipatedinthatprogramonNovember14,2008.
Asaresult,Provident™s$151.5millionofpreferredstockrelatedtheretowasconvertedtoM&TFixed
RateCumulativePerpetualPreferredStock,SeriesC,withwarrantstopurchaseM&Tcommonstock.

TheestimatedfairvalueascribedtotheSeriesCPreferredStockwas$129millionontheMay23,2009
acquisitiondate.ThefinancialstatementvalueoftheSeriesCPreferredStockwas$135millionand
$131millionatDecember31,2010andDecember31,2009,respectively.TheholderoftheSeriesAand

SeriesCpreferredstockisentitledtocumulativecashdividendsof5%perannumforfiveyearsafterthe
dateofinitialissuanceand9%perannumthereafter,payablequarterlyinarrears.Thatpreferredstockis
redeemableattheoptionofM&T,subjecttoregulatoryapproval.M&Talsoobtainedanotherseriesof

preferredstockaspartoftheProvidentacquisitionthatwasconvertedto$26.5millionofM&TSeriesB

MandatoryConvertibleNon-CumulativePreferredStock,liquidationpreferenceof$1,000pershare.The
26,500sharesoftheSeriesBPreferredStockwillautomaticallyconvertinto433,148sharesofM&T
commonstockonApril1,2011.TheSeriesBPreferredStockpaysdividendsatarateof10%perannum

ontheliquidationpreferenceof$1,000pershare,payablequarterlyinarrears.Theestimatedacquisition
datefairvalueoftheSeriesBPreferredStockwasapproximatelyequaltothatstock™s$26.5million
redemptionvalue.FurtherinformationconcerningM&T™spreferredstockcanbefoundinnote10of

NotestoFinancialStatements.
Commonshareholders™equitywas$7.6billion,or$63.54pershare,atDecember31,2010,
comparedwith$7.0billion,or$59.31pershare,atDecember31,2009and$6.2billion,or$56.29per

share,atDecember31,2008.Tangibleequitypercommonshare,whichexcludesgoodwillandcore
depositandotherintangibleassetsandapplicabledeferredtaxbalances,was$33.26atDecember31,
2010,comparedwith$28.27and$25.94atDecember31,2009and2008,respectively.TheCompany™s

ratiooftangiblecommonequitytotangibleassetswas6.19%atDecember31,2010,comparedwith
5.13%and4.59%atDecember31,2009andDecember31,2008,respectively.Reconciliationsoftotal
commonshareholders™equityandtangiblecommonequityasofDecember31,2010,2009and2008are

presentedintable2.During2010,2009and2008,theratioofaveragetotalshareholders™equityto
averagetotalassetswas11.85%,10.79%and9.88%,respectively.Theratioofaveragecommon
shareholders™equitytoaveragetotalassetswas10.77%,9.81%and9.86%in2010,2009and2008,

respectively.
Shareholders™equityreflectsaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincomeorloss,whichincludesthe
netafter-taximpactofunrealizedgainsorlossesoninvestmentsecuritiesclassifiedasavailableforsale,

gainsorlossesassociatedwithinterestrateswapagreementsdesignatedascashflowhedges,and
85adjustmentstoreflectthefundedstatusofdefinedbenefitpensionandotherpostretirementplans.Net
unrealizedlossesonavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecurities,netofapplicabletaxeffect,were$85million,

or$.71percommonshare,atDecember31,2010,comparedwithnetunrealizedlossesof$220million,
or$1.86percommonshare,atDecember31,2009,and$557million,or$5.04percommonshare,at
December31,2008.Suchunrealizedlossesrepresentthedifference,netofapplicableincometaxeffect,

betweentheestimatedfairvalueandamortizedcostofinvestmentsecuritiesclassifiedasavailablefor
sale,includingtheremainingunamortizedunrealizedlossesoninvestmentsecuritiesthathavebeen
transferredtoheld-to-maturityclassification.Informationaboutunrealizedgainsandlossesasof

December31,2010and2009isincludedinnote3ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
ReflectedinnetunrealizedlossesatDecember31,2010werepretax-effectunrealizedlossesof
$312milliononavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritieswithanamortizedcostof$1.7billionandpre-tax

effectunrealizedgainsof$231milliononsecuritieswithanamortizedcostof$3.8billion.Thepre-tax
effectunrealizedlossesreflect$252millionoflossesonprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritieswith
anamortizedcostof$1.4billionandanestimatedfairvalueof$1.1billion(consideredLevel3

valuations)and$38millionoflossesontrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutionshaving
anamortizedcostof$127millionandanestimatedfairvalueof$89million(generallyconsideredLevel2
valuations).TheCompany™sprivatelyissuedresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritiesclassifiedasavailablefor
salearegenerallycollateralizedbyprimeandAlt-Aresidentialmortgageloansasdepictedintable22.
InformationinthetableisasofDecember31,2010.Aswithanyaccountingestimateorotherdata,

changesinfairvaluesandinvestmentratingsmayoccuratanytime.
Table22
PRIVATELYISSUEDMORTGAGE-BACKEDSECURITIESCLASSIFIEDASAVAILABLEFORSALE(a)
CollateralType
Amortized
CostFairValue
NetUnrealized
Gains(Losses)AAARated
Investment
GradeSeniorTranche
AsaPercentageofCarryingValue
(Dollarsinthousands)
ResidentialMortgageLoans
PrimeŠFixed..............$
93,104$98,665$5,56167%69%98%
PrimeŠHybridARMs
.......1,397,3651,212,048(185,317)125595
PrimeŠOther.............
1,7511,576(175)ŠŠ100
Alt-AŠFixed.
.............7,7978,9781,181131399
Alt-AŠHybridARMs
........171,608111,055(60,553)Š4783
Alt-AŠOptionARMs
........216150
(66)ŠŠŠ
Other....................
5,2233,089(2,134)ŠŠ7
Subtotal.................
1,677,0641,435,561(241,503)15%55%94%
CommercialMortgageLoans
....25,35722,407(2,950)100%100%100%
Total...................
$1,702,421$1,457,968$(244,453)16%56%94%
(a)AllinformationisasofDecember31,2010.
Reflectingthecreditstressassociatedwithresidentialmortgageloans,tradingactivityforprivately
issuedmortgage-backedsecuritieshasbeendramaticallyreduced.Inestimatingvaluesforsuchsecurities,

theCompanywassignificantlyrestrictedinthelevelofmarketobservableassumptionsusedinthe
valuationofitsprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesportfolio.Becauseoftherelativeinactivity
andlackofobservablevaluationinputs,theCompanyconsiderstheestimatedfairvalueassociatedwith

itsholdingsofprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiestobeLevel3valuations.Toassistinthe
determinationoffairvalueforitsprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities,theCompanyengagedtwo
independentpricingsourcesatDecember31,2010andDecember31,2009.InApril2009,guidancewas

providedbytheFASBforestimatingfairvaluewhenthevolumeandleveloftradingactivityforanasset
86orliabilityhavesignificantlydecreased.Inconsiderationofthatguidance,theCompanyperformed
internalmodelingtoestimatethecashflowsandfairvalueofprivatelyissuedresidentialmortgage-

backedsecuritieswithanamortizedcostbasisof$1.5billionatDecember31,2010and$1.9billionat

December31,2009.TheCompany™sinternalmodelingtechniquesincludeddiscountingestimatedbond-
specificcashflowsusingassumptionsaboutcashflowsassociatedwithloansunderlyingeachofthe
bonds.Inestimatingthosecashflows,theCompanyusedconservativeassumptionsastofuture

delinquency,defaultandlossratesinordertomitigateexposurethatmightbeattributabletotherisk

thatactualfuturecreditlossescouldexceedassumedcreditlosses.Differencesbetweeninternalmodel

valuationsandexternalpricingindicationsweregenerallyconsideredtobereflectiveofthelackof

liquidityinthemarketforprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities.Todeterminethemostrepresen-
tativefairvalueforthosebondsundercurrentmarketconditions,theCompanycomputedvaluesbased
onjudgmentallyappliedweightingsoftheinternalmodelvaluationsandtheindicationsobtainedfrom

theaverageofthetwoindependentpricingsources.Weightingsappliedtointernalmodelvaluationswere

generallydependentonbondstructureandcollateraltype,withpricesforbondsinnon-seniortranches

generallyreceivinglowerweightingsontheinternalmodelresultsandgreaterweightingsofthevaluation
dataprovidedbytheindependentpricingsources.Asaresult,certainvaluationsofprivatelyissued
residentialmortgage-backedsecuritiesweredeterminedbyreferencetoindependentpricingsources

withoutadjustment.TheaverageweightplacedoninternalmodelvaluationsatDecember31,2010was

34%,comparedwitha66%weightingonvaluationsprovidedbytheindependentsources.Generally,the

rangeofweightsplacedoninternalvaluationswasbetween0%and40%.Furtherinformationconcerning
theCompany™svaluationsofprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiescanbefoundinnote20of
NotestoFinancialStatements.
During2010theCompanyrecognized$86million(pre-tax)ofother-than-temporaryimpairment
lossesincluding$63millionrelatedtoprivatelyissuedresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritieswithan

amortizedcostbasis(beforeimpairmentcharge)of$585million,$6millionrelatedtosecuritiesbacked
largelybytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutionswithanamortizedcostbasis(before
impairmentcharge)of$13million,$5millionrelatedtocommercialmortgage-backedCMOswithan

amortizedcostbasis(beforeimpairmentcharge)of$9million,and$12millionrelatedtoAIBADSswith

anamortizedcostbasis(beforeimpairmentcharge)of$13million.Inassessingimpairmentlossesfor

debtsecurities,theCompanyperformedinternalmodelingtoestimatebond-specificcashflows,which
consideredtheplacementofthebondintheoverallsecuritizationstructureandtheremaininglevelsof
subordination.Forprivatelyissuedresidentialmortgage-backedsecurities,themodelutilizedassumptions

abouttheunderlyingperformanceofthemortgageloancollateralconsideringrecentcollateralperfor-

manceandfutureassumptionsregardingdefaultandlossseverity.AtDecember31,2010,projected

modeldefaultpercentagesontheunderlyingmortgageloancollateralrangedfrom1%to43%andloss

severitiesrangedfrom10%to71%.ForbondsinwhichtheCompanyhasrecognizedanother-than-tem-
poraryimpairmentcharge,theweighted-averagepercentageofdefaultedcollateralwas25%andthe
weighted-averagelossseveritywas49%.Forbondswithoutother-than-temporaryimpairmentlosses,the

weighted-averagedefaultpercentageandlossseveritywere11%and39%,respectively.Underlying

mortgageloancollateralcashflows,afterconsideringtheimpactofestimatedcreditlosses,were

distributedbythemodeltothevarioussecuritieswithinthesecuritizationstructuretodeterminethe
timingandextentoflossesatthebond-level,ifany.Despitecontinuinghighlevelsofdelinquenciesand
lossesintheunderlyingresidentialmortgageloancollateral,givencreditenhancementsresultingfromthe

structuresofindividualbonds,theCompanyhasconcludedthatasofDecember31,2010itsremaining

privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritieswerenotother-than-temporarilyimpaired.Nevertheless,given

recentmarketconditions,itispossiblethatadversechangesinrepaymentperformanceandfairvalue

couldoccurin2011andlateryearsthatcouldimpacttheCompany™sconclusions.Managementhas
modeledcashflowsfromprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesundervariousscenariosandhas
concludedthatevenifhomepricedepreciationandcurrentdelinquencytrendspersistforanextended

periodoftime,theCompany™sprincipallossesonitsprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritieswould

besubstantiallylessthantheircurrentfairvaluationlosses.Informationcomparingtheamortizedcost

andfairvalueofinvestmentsecuritiesisincludedinnote3ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
AtDecember31,2010,theCompanyalsohadnetpre-taxunrealizedgainsof$5millionon
$410millionoftrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutions,securitiesbackedbytrust

preferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutionsandotherentities,andotherdebtsecurities(including
$16millionofnetunrealizedgainson$111millionofsecuritiesusingaLevel3valuationand$11million
ofnetunrealizedlosseson$299millionofsecuritiesclassifiedasLevel2valuations).Pre-taxunrealized

lossesof$29millionexistedon$384millionofsuchsecuritiesatDecember31,2009.Afterevaluating

theexpectedrepaymentperformanceoffinancialinstitutionswheretrustpreferredsecuritieswereheld
directlybytheCompanyorwerewithinCDOsbackedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesobtainedin
acquisitions,theCompany,during2010and2009,recognizedpre-taxother-than-temporaryimpairment

lossesof$6millionand$8million,respectively,relatedtothosesecurities.
TheCompanyalsoholdsmunicipalbonds,mortgage-backedsecuritiesguaranteedbygovernment
agenciesandcertainCMOssecuritizedbyBayviewFinancialHoldings,L.P.(togetherwithitsaffiliates,
ﬁBayviewFinancialﬂ),aprivately-heldspecialtymortgagefinancecompanyandthemajorityinvestorof

BLG,initsheld-to-maturityinvestmentsecuritiesportfolio.TheCompanypurchasedcertainprivate

placementCMOsduring2008thathadbeensecuritizedbyBayviewFinancial.GiventheCompany™s
relationshipwithBayviewFinancialandrelatedentitiesatthattime,theCompanyreconsideredits
intentiontoholdotherCMOssecuritizedbyBayviewFinancialwithacostbasisof$385millionanda

fairvalueof$298millionandtransferredsuchsecuritiesfromitsavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecurities

portfoliotoitsheld-to-maturityinvestmentsecuritiesportfolio.During2010,theCompanyrecognizeda
$5million(pre-tax)other-than-temporaryimpairmentlossrelatedtoCMOsintheheld-to-maturity
portfoliohavinganamortizedcost(beforeimpairmentcharge)of$9million.Similartoitsevaluationof

privatelyissuedresidentialmortgage-backedsecurities,theCompanyassessedimpairmentlossesonthese
CMOsbyperforminginternalmodelingtoestimatebond-specificcashflows,whichconsideredthe
placementofthebondintheoverallsecuritizationstructureandtheremainingsubordinationlevels.In

total,atDecember31,2010and2009,theCompanyhadinitsheld-to-maturityportfolioCMOswithan

amortizedcostbasisof$313million(afterimpairmentcharge)and$352million,respectively,andafair
valueof$198millionand$201million,respectively.AtDecember31,2010,theamortizedcostandfair
valueofCMOssecuritizedbyBayviewFinancialintheCompany™savailable-for-saleinvestmentsecurities

portfoliowere$25millionand$22million,respectively,andatDecember31,2009were$33millionand

$25million,respectively.Giventhecreditenhancementswithineachoftheindividualbondstructures,
theCompanyhasdeterminedthattheremainingprivateCMOssecuritizedbyBayviewFinancialwere
notother-than-temporarilyimpairedatDecember31,2010.
TheAIBADSswereobtainedina2003acquisitionandareheldtosatisfyoptionstopurchase
suchsharesgrantedbytheacquiredentitytocertainemployees.Factorscontributingtothe$12million
other-than-temporaryimpairmentchargein2010relatedtotheAIBADSsincludedmountingcreditand
otherlossesincurredbyAIB,theissuanceofAIBcommonstockinlieuofdividendpaymentsoncertain

preferredstockissuancesheldbytheIrishgovernmentresultinginsignificantdilutionofAIBcommon

shareholders,andpublicannouncementsbyIrishgovernmentofficialssuggestingthatincreasedgovern-
mentsupport,whichcouldfurtherdiluteAIBcommonshareholders,maybenecessary.
During2009theCompanyrecognized$138million(pre-tax)ofother-than-temporarylosses,
including$128millionrelatedtoCMOsbackedbyprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritieswithan

amortizedcostbasis(beforeimpairmentcharge)of$486millionand$10millionrelatedtoCDOsbacked
largelybytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutionswithanamortizedcostbasis(before
impairmentcharge)of$18million.During2008theCompanyrecognized$182million(pre-tax)of

other-than-temporarylosses,$18millionofwhichrelatedtoprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities
withanamortizedcostbasis(beforeimpairmentcharge)of$20millionand$11millionrelatedto
securitiesbackedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutionswithanamortizedcostbasis

(beforeimpairmentcharge)of$12million.Theremaining$153millionofother-than-temporary

impairmentin2008relatedtotheCompany™sholdingsofpreferredstockofFannieMaeandFreddie
Macwithanamortizedcostbasis(beforeimpairmentcharge)of$162million.
AsofDecember31,2010,basedonareviewofeachoftheremainingsecuritiesintheinvestment
securitiesportfolio,theCompanyconcludedthatthedeclinesinthevaluesofthosesecuritieswere

temporaryandthatanyadditionalother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargeswerenotappropriate.Asof
87thatdate,theCompanydidnotintendtosellnorisitanticipatedthatitwouldberequiredtosellanyof
itsimpairedsecurities,thatis,wherefairvalueislessthanthecostbasisofthesecurity.TheCompany

intendstocontinuetocloselymonitortheperformanceoftheprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities
andothersecuritiesbecausechangesintheirunderlyingcreditperformanceorothereventscouldcause
thecostbasisofthosesecuritiestobecomeother-than-temporarilyimpaired.However,becausethe

unrealizedlossesonavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritieshavegenerallyalreadybeenreflectedinthe
financialstatementvaluesforinvestmentsecuritiesandshareholders™equity,anyrecognitionofan
other-than-temporarydeclineinvalueofthoseinvestmentsecuritieswouldnothaveamaterialeffecton

theCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialcondition.Anyadditionalother-than-temporaryimpairmentcharge
relatedtoheld-to-maturitysecuritieswouldresultinreductionsinthefinancialstatementvaluesfor
investmentsecuritiesandshareholders™equity.Additionalinformationconcerningfairvaluemeasure-

mentsandtheCompany™sapproachtotheclassificationofsuchmeasurementsisincludedinnote20of
theNotestoFinancialStatements.
Adjustmentstoreflectthefundedstatusofdefinedbenefitpensionandotherpostretirementplans,
netofapplicabletaxeffect,reducedaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincomeby$121million,or$1.01
percommonshare,atDecember31,2010,$117million,or$.99percommonshare,atDecember31,
2009,and$174million,or$1.58percommonshare,atDecember31,2008.Thedecreaseinsuch

adjustmentatDecember31,2009ascomparedwithDecember31,2008waspredominantlytheresultof
actualinvestmentperformanceofassetsheldbytheCompany™squalifiedpensionplansbeingsignificantly
betterthanassumedforactuarialpurposes.Duringthesecondquarterof2009,theCompanycontributed

900,000sharesofM&Tcommonstockhavingathenfairvalueof$44milliontotheCompany™squalified
definedbenefitpensionplan.Thoseshareswereissuedfrompreviouslyheldtreasurystock.Information
aboutthefundedstatusoftheCompany™spensionandotherpostretirementbenefitplansisincludedin

note12ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
CashdividendsdeclaredonM&T™scommonstocktotaled$336millionin2010,comparedwith
$327millionand$309millionin2009and2008,respectively.Dividendspercommonsharetotaled$2.80

ineachof2010,2009and2008.During2010,cashdividendsof$38million,or$50.00pershare,were

declaredandpaidtotheU.S.TreasuryonM&T™sSeriesA($30million)andSeriesC($8million)
PreferredStock.Similardividendsof$31millionweredeclaredandpaidin2009.Cashdividendsof
$3millionand$1million($100.00pershareand$50.00pershare)weredeclaredandpaidduring2010

and2009,respectively,onM&T™sSeriesBPreferredStock.TheSeriesBandSeriesCPreferredStock
werecreatedinconnectionwiththeProvidenttransaction.TheCompanydidnotrepurchaseanyofits
commonstockin2010,2009or2008.
FederalregulatorsgenerallyrequirebankinginstitutionstomaintainﬁTier1capitalﬂandﬁtotal
capitalﬂratiosofatleast4%and8%,respectively,ofrisk-adjustedtotalassets.Inadditiontotherisk-
basedmeasures,Federalbankregulatorshavealsoimplementedaminimumﬁleverageﬂratioguidelineof

3%ofthequarterlyaverageoftotalassets.AtDecember31,2010,Tier1capitalincluded$1.1billionof
trustpreferredsecuritiesasdescribedinnote9ofNotestoFinancialStatementsandtotalcapitalfurther
included$1.5billionofsubordinatedcapitalnotes.PursuanttotheDodd-FrankAct,trustpreferred

securitieswillbephased-outofthedefinitionofTier1capitalofbankholdingcompanies.Thecapital
ratiosoftheCompanyanditsbankingsubsidiariesasofDecember31,2010and2009arepresentedin
note23ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
FourthQuarterResults
Netincomeduringthefourthquarterof2010rose49%to$204millionfrom$137millionintheyear-
earlierquarter.Dilutedandbasicearningspercommonsharewereeach$1.59inthefinal2010quarter,

53%and51%higherthan$1.04and$1.05ofdilutedandbasicearningspercommonshare,respectively,
inthecorrespondingquarterof2009.Theannualizedratesofreturnonaverageassetsandaverage
commonshareholders™equityfortherecentlycompletedquarterwere1.18%and10.03%,respectively,

comparedwith.79%and7.09%,respectively,inthefourthquarterof2009.
Netoperatingincometotaled$196millionintherecentquarter,comparedwith$151millionin
thefourthquarterof2009.Dilutednetoperatingearningspercommonsharewere$1.52inthefinal

2010quarter,comparedwith$1.16intheyear-earlierquarter.Theannualizednetoperatingreturnson
88averagetangibleassetsandaveragetangiblecommonequityinthefourthquarterof2010were1.20%
and18.43%,respectively,comparedwith.92%and16.73%,respectively,inthesimilar2009quarter.Core
depositandotherintangibleassetamortization,aftertaxeffect,totaled$8millionand$10millioninthe
fourthquartersof2010and2009($.07and$.09perdilutedcommonshare,respectively).Theafter-tax

impactofmerger-relatedexpensesandthegainassociatedwiththeKBankacquisitiontransactiontotaled
toanetgainof$16million($27millionpre-tax)or$.14ofdilutedearningspercommonshareinthe
fourthquarterof2010.Theafter-taximpactofmerger-relatedexpensesrelatedtotheProvidentand

Bradfordacquisitiontransactionswas$4million($6millionpre-tax)or$.03ofdilutedearningsper
commonshareinthefinalquarterof2009.ReconciliationsofGAAPresultswithnon-GAAPresultsfor
thequarterlyperiodsof2010and2009areprovidedintable24.
Taxable-equivalentnetinterestincomeincreased3%to$580millioninthefourthquarterof2010
from$565millionintheyear-earlierquarter.Thatgrowthreflectsa14basispointwideningofthe
Company™snetinterestmargin.Theyieldonearningassetswas4.58%ineachofthefourthquartersof

2010and2009.Theratepaidoninterest-bearingliabilitiesdeclined16basispointsto.97%inthefinal
quarterof2010from1.13%inthecorrespondingquarterof2009.Theresultingnetinterestspreadwas
3.61%intherecentquarter,up16basispointsfrom3.45%inthefourthquarterof2009.That

improvementwaslargelyduetolowerinterestratespaidondeposits.Thecontributionofnetinterest-
freefundstotheCompany™snetinterestmarginwas.24%intherecentquarter,downslightlyfrom.26%
intheyear-earlierquarter.Thatdeclinereflectstheimpactoflowerinterestratesoninterest-bearing

liabilitiesusedtovaluesuchcontribution.Asaresult,theCompany™snetinterestmarginwidenedto
3.85%inthefinal2010quarterfrom3.71%inthesimilarquarterof2009.Averageearningassetsinthe
fourthquarterof2010totaled$59.7billion,down1%from$60.5billionintheyear-earlierquarter.That

declineresultedfromloweraverageloansandleases,whichdecreased2%to$51.1billionintherecent
quarterfrom$52.1billionin2009™sfinalquarter.Averagecommercialloanandleasebalanceswere
$13.0billionintherecentquarter,down$514millionor4%from$13.5billioninthefourthquarterof

2009.Thatdeclinewastheresultofgenerallylowerdemandforcommercialloansthroughoutmostof
2010.Commercialrealestateloansaveraged$20.6billioninthefourthquarterof2010,down
$326millionfrom$21.0billionintheyear-earlierquarter.Averageresidentialrealestateloansoutstand-

ingrose8%or$453millionto$5.9billionintherecentquarterfrom$5.5billioninthefourthquarter
of2009.Thatincreasewaspredominantlytheresultoftheimpactofadoptingthealreadydiscussednew
accountingrulesonJanuary1,2010relatedtonon-recoursesecuritizationtransactionsusingqualified

special-purposetrusts.Includedintheresidentialrealestateloanportfoliowereloansheldforsale,which
averaged$556millionand$497millioninthefourthquartersof2010and2009,respectively.Consumer
loansaveraged$11.6billionintherecentquarter,down$558million,or5%,from$12.1billioninthe

final2009quarter.Thatdeclinewaslargelyduetoloweroutstandingautomobileandhomeequityloan
balances.Despitesluggishloandemandthroughoutmuchof2010,totalloansincreased$1.2billionto
$52.0billionatDecember31,2010from$50.8billionatSeptember30,2010.Thatgrowthwaslargely

attributabletoDecemberincreasesincommercialloansandcommercialrealestateloans.
Theprovisionforcreditlosseswas$85millioninthethree-monthperiodendedDecember31,
2010,comparedwith$145millionintheyear-earlierperiod.Netcharge-offsofloanswere$77millionin

thefinalquarterof2010,representinganannualized.60%ofaverageloansandleasesoutstanding,
comparedwith$135millionor1.03%duringtheyear-earlierquarter.Netcharge-offsincluded:residen-
tialrealestateloansof$15millionintherecentlycompletedquarter,comparedwith$21millionayear

earlier;loanstobuildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestatepropertiesof$22million,compared
with$40millioninthefourthquarterof2009;othercommercialrealestateloansof$13million,
comparedwith$11millionayearearlier;commercialloansof$5million,comparedwith$31millionin

2009;andconsumerloansof$22million,comparedwith$32millionintheprioryear™sfourthquarter.
Otherincometotaled$287millionintherecentquarter,up8%from$266millionintheyear-
earlierquarter.Netlossesoninvestmentsecurities(includingother-than-temporaryimpairmentcharges)

were$27millionduringthefourthquarterof2010,comparedwith$34millionintheyear-earlier
quarter.Thelosseswerepredominantlyduetoother-than-temporaryimpairmentchargesrelatedto
certainoftheCompany™sprivatelyissuedCMOs.Reflectedinotherincomeforthefourthquarterof

2010wasthe$28milliongainrecordedontheKBankacquisitiontransaction.Excludingnetlosseson
89investmentsecuritiesandthemerger-relatedgain,otherincomewas$286million,down5%from
$300millionintheyear-earlierquarter.Themostsignificantcontributorstothatdeclinewerelower

residentialmortgagebankingrevenuesandservicechargesondepositaccounts,partiallyoffsetbyhigher
tradingaccountandforeignexchangegainsandletterofcreditandothercredit-relatedfees.Thedecline
inresidentialmortgagebankingrevenuesintherecentquarterreflectsloweroriginationvolumes,the

Company™sdecisiontoretainforportfolioahigherproportionoforiginatedloansratherthanselling
them,andincreasedsettlementsrelatedtoobligationstorepurchasepreviouslysoldloans.Charges
againstmortgagebankingrevenuesrelatedtosuchrepurchaseobligationswere$14millionintherecent

quarterand$6millioninthefourthquarterof2009.Thelowerservicechargesondepositaccounts
reflectthenewregulationsthatwentintoeffectinthethirdquarterof2010.TheFederalReserveand
otherregulatorshaveadoptedregulationsrequiringexpandeddisclosureofoverdraftandotherfees

assessedtoconsumersandissuedguidancethatrequiresconsumerstoelecttobesubjecttofeesfor
certaindepositaccounttransactionsthatbeganJuly1,2010fornewcustomersandAugust15,2010for
pre-existingcustomers.TheCompanyestimatesthatthesenewregulationsresultedinadecreasein

depositaccountservicechargesofapproximately$16millioninthefourthquarterof2010.
Otherexpenseinthefourthquarterof2010totaled$469million,comparedwith$478millionin
theyear-earlierquarter.Includedinsuchamountsareexpensesconsideredtobeﬁnonoperatingﬂin

natureconsistingofamortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsof$13millionand
$17millioninthefinalquartersof2010and2009,respectively,andmerger-relatedexpensesof$771
thousandand$6millioninthefourthquartersof2010and2009,respectively.Exclusiveofthose

nonoperatingexpenses,noninterestoperatingexpenseswere$455millionineachofthefourthquarters
of2010and2009.Ascomparedwiththefourthquarterof2009,highercostsforprofessionalservices
andadvertisingandpromotionintherecentquarterwereoffsetbylowerexpensesforsalariesand

employeebenefits,equipmentandoccupancy,andotheroperatingcosts.TheCompany™sefficiencyratio
duringthefourthquarterof2010and2009was52.5%and52.7%,respectively.Table24includesa
reconciliationofotherexpensetononinterestoperatingexpenseforeachofthequartersof2010and

2009.SegmentInformation
InaccordancewithGAAP,theCompany™sreportablesegmentshavebeendeterminedbaseduponits

internalprofitabilityreportingsystem,whichisorganizedbystrategicbusinessunit.Certainstrategic

businessunitshavebeencombinedforsegmentinformationreportingpurposeswherethenatureofthe
productsandservices,thetypeofcustomer,andthedistributionofthoseproductsandservicesare
similar.ThereportablesegmentsareBusinessBanking,CommercialBanking,CommercialRealEstate,

DiscretionaryPortfolio,ResidentialMortgageBankingandRetailBanking.
ThefinancialinformationoftheCompany™ssegmentswascompiledutilizingtheaccounting
policiesdescribedinnote22ofNotestoFinancialStatements.Themanagementaccountingpoliciesand

processesutilizedincompilingsegmentfinancialinformationarehighlysubjectiveand,unlikefinancial
accounting,arenotbasedonauthoritativeguidancesimilartoGAAP.Asaresult,reportedsegmentsand
thefinancialinformationofthereportedsegmentsarenotnecessarilycomparablewithsimilarinforma-

tionreportedbyotherfinancialinstitutions.Furthermore,changesinmanagementstructureorallocation
methodologiesandproceduresmayresultinchangesinreportedsegmentfinancialdata.Financial
informationabouttheCompany™ssegmentsispresentedinnote22ofNotestoFinancialStatements.
TheBusinessBankingsegmentprovidesawiderangeofservicestosmallbusinessesand
professionalsthroughtheCompany™sbranchnetwork,businessbankingcentersandotherdelivery
channelssuchastelephonebanking,Internetbankingandautomatedtellermachineswithinmarkets

servedbytheCompany.Servicesandproductsofferedbythissegmentincludevariousbusinessloansand
leases,includingloansguaranteedbytheSmallBusinessAdministration,businesscreditcards,deposit
products,andfinancialservicessuchascashmanagement,payrollanddirectdeposit,merchantcredit

cardandlettersofcredit.TheBusinessBankingsegmentcontributednetincomeof$99millionin2010,
21%lowerthanthe$124millionrecordedin2009.Thatdeclinewaspredominatelyduetoa$33million
increaseintheprovisionforcreditlosses,theresultofincreasednetcharge-offsofloans.Netincome

earnedin2008totaled$120million.Thefavorableperformancein2009ascomparedwith2008wasdue
90tohighernetinterestincomeof$33million,largelyattributabletohigheraveragedepositandloan
balancesof$869millionand$416million,respectively,partiallyoffsetbya$20millionincreaseintotal

noninterestexpenses,reflectinghigherFDICassessmentsof$10million,andan$8millionincreasein
theprovisionforcreditlosses,theresultofhighernetcharge-offsofloans.Approximatelythree-fourths
ofthehighernetinterestincomewasduetotheProvidenttransaction.
TheCommercialBankingsegmentprovidesawiderangeofcreditproductsandbankingservices
formiddle-marketandlargecommercialcustomers,mainlywithinthemarketsservedbytheCompany.
Servicesprovidedbythissegmentincludecommerciallendingandleasing,lettersofcredit,deposit

products,andcashmanagementservices.TheCommercialBankingsegmentearned$314millionin2010,

up31%from$239millionin2009.Theincreaseinnetincomein2010ascomparedwith2009reflectsa

$60milliondeclineintheprovisionforcreditlosses,duetolowernetloancharge-offs,aswellasa

$51millionriseinnetinterestincome,duetoa$2.0billionincreaseinaveragedepositbalancesanda
26basispointwideningofthenetinterestmarginonloans.Netincomecontributedbythissegmentin
2008was$213million.Thehighernetincomein2009ascomparedwith2008reflectsa$98million

increaseinnetinterestincome,primarilyduetoa$3.0billionincreaseinaveragedepositbalances.

Approximately15%oftheincreaseinnetinterestincomewasduetotheProvidentacquisition.Partially

offsettingthatincreasewerea$31millionincreaseintheprovisionforcreditlosses,predominatelydue

tohighernetcharge-offsofloans,anda$15millionriseinFDICassessments.
TheCommercialRealEstatesegmentprovidescreditanddepositservicestoitscustomers.Real
estatesecuringloansinthissegmentisgenerallylocatedintheNewYorkCitymetropolitanarea,upstate

NewYork,Pennsylvania,Maryland,theDistrictofColumbia,Delaware,Virginia,WestVirginia,andthe

northwesternportionoftheUnitedStates.Commercialrealestateloansmaybesecuredbyapartment/
multifamilybuildings;office,retailandindustrialspace;orothertypesofcollateral.Activitiesofthis
segmentalsoincludetheorigination,salesandservicingofcommercialrealestateloansthroughthe

FannieMaeDUSprogramandotherprograms.NetincomefortheCommercialRealEstatesegment

improved31%to$203millionin2010from$155millionin2009.Factorscontributingtothesignificant

riseinnetincomeinclude:a$39milliondeclineintheprovisionforcreditlosses,mainlyduetolower

netcharge-offsofloans;a$38millionincreaseinnetinterestincome;andhigherrevenuesfrom
mortgagebankingactivitiesof$13million,theresultofincreasedloanoriginationandsalesactivities.
Theriseinnetinterestincomewasattributabletoa28basispointexpansionofthenetinterestmargin

onloansandincreasesinaveragedepositandloanbalancesof$430millionand$249million,

respectively,partiallyoffsetbya57basispointnarrowingofthenetinterestmarginondeposits.Partially

offsettingthefavorablefactorswerehighernoninterestexpenses,whichincludeincreasedpersonnel-

relatedcostsandforeclosure-relatedexpensesof$8millionand$5million,respectively.In2008,net

incomefortheCommercialRealEstatesegmentwas$164million.Factorscontributingtothe5%decline
innetincomein2009whencomparedwith2008werea$69millionincreaseintheprovisionforcredit
losses,primarilyduetohighernetcharge-offsofloans,andhighernoninterestexpensesof$15million,

includingincreasedFDICassessmentsof$4million.Thoseincreasedcostswerepartiallyoffsetbyhigher

netinterestincomeof$59million,largelyattributabletohigheraverageloananddepositbalancesof

$1.4billionand$489million,respectively,andan18basispointwideningofthenetinterestmarginon

loans.Approximatelyone-halfoftheincreaseinnetinterestincomewasduetotheProvident
acquisition.
TheDiscretionaryPortfoliosegmentincludesinvestmentandtradingsecurities,residentialmort-
gageloansandotherassets;short-termandlong-termborrowedfunds;brokeredcertificatesofdeposit
andinterestrateswapagreementsrelatedthereto;andCaymanIslandsbranchdeposits.Thissegmentalso
providesforeignexchangeservicestocustomers.IncludedintheassetsoftheDiscretionaryPortfolio

segmentaremostoftheinvestmentsecuritiesforwhichtheCompanyhasrecognizedother-than-tempo-

raryimpairmentchargesineachofthelastthreeyearsandtheportfolioofAlt-Amortgageloans.The

DiscretionaryPortfoliosegmentincurrednetlossesof$39million,$28millionand$48millionin2010,

2009and2008,respectively.Includedinthissegment™sresultswereother-than-temporaryimpairment

chargesof$74millionin2010,$138millionin2009and$182millionin2008.Theimpairmentcharges
recordedin2010and2009predominatelyrelatedtoprivatelyissuedCMOs,whilethe2008impairment
91chargeswerelargelyfromtheCompany™sholdingsofpreferredstockissuancesofFannieMaeand
FreddieMac.Inadditiontotheimpactofimpairmentcharges,thehighernetlossincurredin2010as
comparedwith2009reflectsadecreaseinnetinterestincomeof$114million,resultingfroma42basis
pointnarrowingofthissegment™snetinterestmargin,offset,inpart,bya$27millionreductioninthe

provisionforcreditlosses,duetolowernetcharge-offsofloans.Factorscontributingtothissegment™s
lowernetlossin2009ascomparedwith2008werea$44milliondeclineinother-than-temporary
impairmentcharges,theimpactofapartialreversalofthevaluationallowanceforcapitalizedresidential
mortgageservicingrightsof$6millionin2009,comparedwithanadditiontothevaluationallowanceof
$6millionin2008,andlowerforeclosure-relatedcostsof$10million.Partiallyoffsettingthosefavorable
factorswerea$14millionincreaseintheprovisionforcreditlosses,drivenbyhighernetcharge-offs,
anda$7milliondeclineinnetinterestincome,reflectingloweraveragebalancesofinvestmentsecurities

andloansof$529millionand$290million,respectively.
TheResidentialMortgageBankingsegmentoriginatesandservicesresidentialmortgageloansand
sellssubstantiallyallofthoseloansinthesecondarymarkettoinvestorsortotheDiscretionaryPortfolio
segment.Thissegmentalsooriginatesandservicesloanstodevelopersofresidentialrealestateproperties,
althoughthatoriginationactivityhasbeensignificantlycurtailed.Inadditiontothegeographicregions

servedbyorcontiguouswiththeCompany™sbranchnetwork,theCompanymaintainsmortgageloan
originationofficesinseveralstatesthroughoutthewesternUnitedStates.TheCompanyalsoperiodically
purchasestherightstoservicemortgageloans.Residentialmortgageloansheldforsaleareincludedin
thissegment.Thissegmentrecordednetincomeof$11millionin2010,comparedwithnetlossesof
$13millionand$48millionin2009and2008,respectively.Thenetlossesincurredin2009and2008

reflectsignificantnetcharge-offsofloanstobuildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestate.The
improvementofthissegment™sresultsin2010ascomparedwith2009wasattributabletothefollowing:a
$49millionreductionintheprovisionforcreditlosses,includingadeclineinnetcharge-offsofloansto
buildersanddevelopersofresidentialrealestate;lowerforeclosure-relatedexpensesof$20million,the
resultofupdatedappraisedvaluesoncertainpreviouslyforeclosed-uponresidentialrealestatedevelop-
mentprojectsin2009;andan$8milliondecreaseinpersonnel-relatedexpenses.Partiallyoffsettingthose
favorablefactorswerea$16millionpartialreversalofthecapitalizedmortgageservicingrightsvaluation

allowancein2009(ascomparedwithnochangeinsuchallowancein2010)andadeclineinrevenues
relatingtoresidentialmortgageoriginationandsalesactivitiesof$19million.Thelowerresidential
mortgagerevenuesin2010reflectloweroriginationvolumesandincreasedsettlementsrelatedtothe
Company™sobligationtorepurchasepreviouslysoldloans.Thelowernetlossin2009ascomparedwith
2008wasdueto:a$55millionriseinnoninterestrevenuesfromresidentialmortgageloanorigination

activities,duetoincreasedvolumeandwidermargins;theimpactofapartialreversalofthecapitalized
mortgageservicingrightsvaluationallowanceof$16millionin2009,comparedwitha$10million
additiontosuchallowancein2008;anda$13millionincreaseinnetinterestincome,partlyduetoa
68basispointwideningofthenetinterestmarginonloans.Ariseintotalnoninterestexpensesof
$43million(excludingthecapitalizedmortgageservicingrightsvaluationallowancereversal),reflecting
higherforeclosure-relatedcostsof$23million,partiallyoffsetthosefavorablefactors.
TheRetailBankingsegmentoffersavarietyofservicestoconsumersthroughseveraldelivery
channelswhichincludebranchoffices,automatedtellermachines,telephonebankingandInternet
banking.TheCompanyhasbranchofficesinNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,Virginia,the
DistrictofColumbia,WestVirginia,DelawareandNewJersey.TheRetailBankingsegmentalsooffers

certaindepositproductsonanationwidebasisthroughthedeliverychannelsofM&TBank,N.A.Credit
servicesofferedbythissegmentincludeconsumerinstallmentloans,automobileloans(originatedboth
directlyandindirectlythroughdealers),homeequityloansandlinesofcreditandcreditcards.The
segmentalsoofferstoitscustomersdepositproducts,includingdemand,savingsandtimeaccounts;
investmentproducts,includingmutualfundsandannuities;andotherservices.Netincomecontributed
bytheRetailBankingsegmentaggregated$225millionin2010,downfrom$237millionin2009.Lower
netinterestincomeof$39million,theresultofa25basispointnarrowingofthenetinterestmarginon

deposits,andan$8millionriseinnetoccupancyexpensescontributedtothedeclineinnetincome.
Thosefactorswerepartiallyoffsetbyadecreaseintheprovisionforcreditlossesof$21million(dueto
lowernetcharge-offsofloans),adeclineinFDICassessmentsof$7million,andhigherfeesearnedfor
92providingdepositaccountservicesof$5million.Netincomeforthissegmentdecreased5%in2009from
the$250millionearnedin2008.Factorscontributingtothatdeclineincluded:a$42millionincreasein
FDICassessments;ariseintheprovisionforcreditlossesof$32million,resultingfromhighernet
charge-offsofconsumerloans;andincreasesinpersonnelandnetoccupancycostsof$17millionand
$16million,respectively,relatedtotheoperationsaddedwiththeProvidentacquisition.Partially
offsettingthoseunfavorablefactorswerea$48millionincreaseinnetinterestincomeanda$34million
riseinfeesearnedforprovidingdepositaccountservicestoProvidentcustomers.Thehighernetinterest
incomewasduetoa$2.4billionincreaseinaveragedepositbalances(approximately60percentofwhich
wasduetotheimpactoftheProvidentacquisition)anda26basispointwideningofthenetinterest
marginonloans,offset,inpart,bya26basispointnarrowingofthedepositnetinterestmargin.
TheﬁAllOtherﬂcategoryreflectsotheractivitiesoftheCompanythatarenotdirectlyattributable
tothereportedsegments.Reflectedinthiscategoryaretheamortizationofcoredepositandother
intangibleassetsresultingfromtheacquisitionsoffinancialinstitutions,M&T™sshareoftheoperating
lossesofBLG,merger-relatedgainsandexpensesresultingfromacquisitionsandthenetimpactofthe
Company™sallocationmethodologiesforinternaltransfersforfundingchargesandcreditsassociatedwith
theearningassetsandinterest-bearingliabilitiesoftheCompany™sreportablesegmentsandtheprovision
forcreditlosses.ThevariouscomponentsoftheﬁAllOtherﬂcategoryresultedinnetlossesof$78million,
$335millionand$95millionin2010,2009and2008,respectively.Theimprovedperformancein2010as
comparedwith2009waslargelyduetothefavorableimpactfromtheCompany™sallocationmethodol-
ogiesforinternaltransfersforfundingchargesandcreditsassociatedwiththeearningassetsandinterest-
bearingliabilitiesoftheCompany™sreportablesegmentsandtheprovisionforcreditlossesandanet
merger-relatedgainin2010of$27million,comparedwithnetmerger-relatedexpensesin2009totaling
$60million.Thefollowingunfavorablefactorscontributedtothehighernetlossin2009ascompared
with2008:theimpactfromtheCompany™sallocationmethodologiesforinternaltransfersforfunding
chargesandcreditsassociatedwiththeearningassetsandinterest-bearingliabilitiesoftheCompany™s
reportablesegmentsandtheprovisionforcreditlosses;$60millionofnetmerger-relatedexpenses
associatedwiththeProvidentandBradfordacquisitionsrecordedin2009,comparedwith$4millionof
merger-relatedexpensesin2008relatedtoacquisitiontransactionscompletedinthefourthquarterof
2007;Visa-relatedtransactionsthatwererecordedinthefirstquarterof2008,includinga$33million

gainrealizedfromthemandatorypartialredemptionofVisastockownedbyM&TBankand$15million
relatedtothereversalofVisalitigation-relatedaccrualsinitiallyrecordedin2007™sfourthquarter;
increasedpersonnelcostsassociatedwiththebusinessandsupportunitsincludedintheﬁAllOtherﬂ
categoryof$35million,includinghighercostsformedical,pensionandpost-retirementbenefits;the
impactofa$40millionreductionofincometaxexpenserecordedin2008™sthirdquarterrelatingto
M&T™sresolutionofcertaintaxissuesfromitsactivitiesinvariousjurisdictionsduringtheyears
1999-2007;lowertrustincomeof$28million;a$16millionincreaseinFDICassessments;anda
$6millionincreaseincharitablecontributionsmadetotheM&TCharitableFoundation.A$13million
(pre-tax)improvementfromM&T™sshareoftheoperatingresultsofBLG(inclusiveofinterestexpense
tofundthatinvestment)partiallyoffsetthefavorablefactors.
RecentAccountingDevelopments
InJune2009,theFASBamendedaccountingguidancerelatingtotheconsolidationofvariableinterest
entitiestoeliminatethequantitativeapproachpreviouslyrequiredfordeterminingtheprimarybenefi-
ciaryofavariableinterestentity.Theamendedguidanceinsteadrequiresareportingentityto
qualitativelyassessthedeterminationoftheprimarybeneficiaryofavariableinterestentitybasedon
whetherthereportingentityhasthepowertodirecttheactivitiesthatmostsignificantlyimpactthe
variableinterestentity™seconomicperformanceandhastheobligationtoabsorblossesortherightto
receivebenefitsofthevariableinterestentitythatcouldpotentiallybesignificanttothevariableinterest
entity.Theamendedguidancerequiresongoingreassessmentsofwhetherthereportingentityisthe
primarybeneficiaryofavariableinterestentity.TheamendedguidancebecameeffectiveasofJanuary1,
2010.93AlsoinJune2009,theFASBissuedamendedaccountingguidancerelatingtoaccountingfor
transfersoffinancialassetstoeliminatetheexceptionsforqualifyingspecial-purposeentitiesfromthe

consolidationguidanceandtheexceptionthatpermittedsaleaccountingforcertainmortgagesecuritiza-

tionswhenatransferorhasnotsurrenderedcontroloverthetransferredassets.Theamendedguidance
becameeffectiveasofJanuary1,2010.Therecognitionandmeasurementprovisionsoftheamended
guidancewereappliedtotransfersthatoccuronoraftertheeffectivedate.Additionally,beginning

January1,2010,theconceptofaqualifyingspecial-purposeentityisnolongerrelevantforaccounting

purposes.Therefore,formerlyqualifyingspecial-purposeentitiesmustnowbeevaluatedforconsolidation

inaccordancewithapplicableconsolidationguidance,includingthenewaccountingguidancerelatingto

theconsolidationofvariableinterestentitiesdiscussedinthepreviousparagraph.
EffectiveJanuary1,2010,theCompanyincludedinitsconsolidatedfinancialstatements
one-to-fourfamilyresidentialmortgageloansthatwereincludedintwoseparatenon-recoursesecuritiza-

tiontransactionsusingqualifiedspecial-purposetrusts.Theeffectofthatconsolidationwastoincrease

loansreceivableby$424million,decreasetheamortizedcostofavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesby

$360million(fairvalueof$355million),andincreaseborrowingsby$65millionasofJanuary1,2010.
Informationconcerningthesesecuritizationtransactionsisincludedinnote19ofNotestoFinancial
Statements.InJanuary2010,theFASBamendedfairvaluemeasurementanddisclosureguidancetorequire
disclosureofsignificanttransfersinandoutofLevel1andLevel2fairvaluemeasurementsandthe

reasonsforthetransfersandtorequireseparatepresentationofinformationaboutpurchases,sales,
issuancesandsettlementsintherollforwardofactivityinLevel3fairvaluemeasurements.Theamended
guidancealsoclarifiesexistingrequirementsthat(i)fairvaluemeasurementdisclosuresshouldbe

disaggregatedforeachclassofassetandliabilityand(ii)disclosuresaboutvaluationtechniquesand

inputsforbothrecurringandnonrecurringLevel2andLevel3fairvaluemeasurementsshouldbe

provided.TheguidanceiseffectiveforinterimandannualperiodsbeginningafterDecember15,2009,

exceptforthedisclosuresaboutpurchases,sales,issuancesandsettlementsintherollforwardofactivity
inLevel3fairvaluemeasurements,whichareeffectiveforfiscalyearsbeginningafterDecember15,2010
andforinterimperiodswithinthoseyears.TheadoptionofthisguidancedidnotimpacttheCompany™s

financialpositionorresultsofoperations.
InMarch2010,theFASBamendedaccountingguidancerelatingtoascopeexceptionfor
derivativeaccountingtoclarifythatonlyembeddedcreditderivativefeaturesrelatedtothetransferof
creditriskintheformofsubordinationofonefinancialinstrumenttoanothershouldnotbeanalyzed
forpotentialbifurcationfromthehostcontractandseparateaccountingasaderivative.Embeddedcredit

derivativefeaturesinaformotherthansubordinationdonotqualifyforthescopeexception,evenif

theireffectsareallocatedaccordingtosubordinationprovisions.Theguidancewaseffectiveatthe

beginningofthefirstquarterbeginningafterJune15,2010.Theadoptionofthisguidancedidnothave

asignificantimpactonthereportingoftheCompany™sfinancialpositionorresultsofoperations.
InApril2010,theFASBissuedamendedaccountingguidancerelatingtotheeffectofaloan
modificationwhentheloanispartofapoolthatisaccountedforasasingleassetundertheguidance

forloansanddebtsecuritiesacquiredwithdeterioratedcreditquality.Theamendedguidancerequires

modificationsofloansthatareaccountedforwithinapooltoremaininthepoolevenifthe

modificationwouldbeconsideredatroubleddebtrestructuring.Companiesarerequiredtocontinueto
reviewthepoolofassetsinwhichthemodifiedloanisincludedtodeterminewhetherthepoolis
impairediftheexpectedcashflowsforthepoolchange.Theguidancewaseffectiveforprospective

modificationsofloansaccountedforwithinpoolsoccurringinthefirstinterimorannualperiodending

onorafterJuly15,2010.Theadoptionofthisguidancedidnothaveasignificantimpactonthe

reportingoftheCompany™sfinancialpositionorresultsofoperations.
InJuly2010,theFASBissuedamendeddisclosureguidancerelatingtocreditriskinherentinan
entity™sportfoliooffinancingreceivablesandtherelatedallowanceforcreditlosses.Theamended

disclosuresarerequiredattwodisaggregatedlevels.Onelevelofdisaggregationistheportfoliosegment

whichrepresentsthelevelatwhichanentitydevelopsanddocumentsasystematicmethodfor

determiningitsallowanceforcreditlosses.Thesecondlevelofdisaggregationistheclassoffinancing

receivableswhichgenerallyrepresentsadisaggregationofaportfoliosegment.Theamendeddisclosures
94includearollforwardoftheallowanceforcreditlossesbyportfoliosegmentwiththeendingbalance
furtherdisaggregatedonthebasisoftheimpairmentmethod,therelatedrecordedinvestmentineach

portfoliosegment,thenonaccrualstatusoffinancingreceivablesbyclass,theimpairedfinancing
receivablesbyclass,thecreditqualityindicatorsoffinancingreceivablesattheendofthereporting
periodbyclass,theagingofpastduefinancingreceivablesattheendofthereportingperiodbyclass,the

natureandextentoftroubleddebtrestructuringsthatoccurredduringtheperiodbyclassandtheireffect
ontheallowanceforcreditlosses,thenatureandextentoffinancingreceivablesmodifiedastroubled
debtrestructuringswithintheprevioustwelvemonthsthatdefaultedduringthereportingperiodbyclass

andtheireffectontheallowanceforcreditlosses,andthesignificantpurchasesandsalesoffinancing
receivablesduringthereportingperiodbyportfoliosegment.Thedisclosuresasoftheendofareporting
periodareeffectiveforinterimandannualreportingperiodsendingonorafterDecember15,2010and

thedisclosuresaboutactivitythatoccursduringareportingperiodareeffectiveforinterimandannual
reportingperiodsbeginningonorafterDecember15,2010.Uponinitialapplication,thedisclosuresare
notrequiredforearlierperiodsthatarepresentedforcomparativepurposes.TheCompanyhascomplied

withthedisclosuresrequiredasofDecember31,2010andintendstocomplywiththeremaining
disclosurerequirementswhentheybecomeeffective.
InOctober2010,theFASBissuedamendedaccountingguidancerelatingtothegoodwill
impairmenttestforreportingunitswithzeroornegativecarryingamounts.Forthosereportingunits
withzeroornegativecarryingamounts,anentityisrequiredtoperformﬁStepTwoﬂofthegoodwill
impairmenttestifitismorelikelythannotthatagoodwillimpairmentexists.Indeterminingwhetherit

ismorelikelythannotthatagoodwillimpairmentexists,anentityshouldconsiderwhetherthereare
anyadversequalitativefactorsindicatingthatanimpairmentmayexist.Theguidanceiseffectivefor
fiscalyears,andinterimperiodswithinthoseyears,beginningafterDecember15,2010.TheCompany

doesnotanticipatethattheadoptionofthisguidancewillhaveasignificantimpactonthereportingof
itsfinancialpositionorresultsofitsoperations.
InDecember2010,theFASBissuedamendeddisclosureguidancerelatingtotheproforma
informationforbusinesscombinationsthatoccurredinthecurrentreportingperiod.Theamended

disclosurestatesthatifanentitypresentscomparativefinancialstatements,theentityshoulddisclose
revenueandearningsofthecombinedentityasthoughthebusinesscombination(s)thatoccurredduring
thecurrentyearhadoccurredasofthebeginningofthecomparablepriorannualreportingperiod.The

guidanceiseffectiveprospectivelyforbusinesscombinationsforwhichtheacquisitiondateisonorafter
thebeginningofthefirstannualreportingperiodbeginningonorafterDecember15,2010.The
Companyintendstocomplywiththedisclosurerequirementswhentheybecomeeffective.
Forward-LookingStatements
Management™sDiscussionandAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperationsandother
sectionsofthisAnnualReportcontainforward-lookingstatementsthatarebasedoncurrentexpecta-

tions,estimatesandprojectionsabouttheCompany™sbusiness,management™sbeliefsandassumptions
madebymanagement.Thesestatementsarenotguaranteesoffutureperformanceandinvolvecertain
risks,uncertaintiesandassumptions(ﬁFutureFactorsﬂ)whicharedifficulttopredict.Therefore,actual

outcomesandresultsmaydiffermateriallyfromwhatisexpressedorforecastedinsuchforward-looking
statements.FutureFactorsincludechangesininterestrates,spreadsonearningassetsandinterest-bearing
liabilities,andinterestratesensitivity;prepaymentspeeds,loanoriginations,creditlossesandmarket
valuesonloans,collateralsecuringloansandotherassets;sourcesofliquidity;commonsharesoutstand-
ing;commonstockpricevolatility;fairvalueofandnumberofstock-basedcompensationawardstobe

issuedinfutureperiods;legislationaffectingthefinancialservicesindustryasawhole,andM&Tandits
subsidiariesindividuallyorcollectively,includingtaxlegislation;regulatorysupervisionandoversight,
includingmonetarypolicyandcapitalrequirements;changesinaccountingpoliciesorproceduresasmay

berequiredbytheFASBorotherregulatoryagencies;increasingpriceandproduct/servicecompetition
bycompetitors,includingnewentrants;rapidtechnologicaldevelopmentsandchanges;theabilityto
continuetointroducecompetitivenewproductsandservicesonatimely,cost-effectivebasis;themixof

products/services;containingcostsandexpenses;governmentalandpublicpolicychanges;protectionand
95validityofintellectualpropertyrights;relianceonlargecustomers;technological,implementationand
cost/financialrisksinlarge,multi-yearcontracts;theoutcomeofpendingandfuturelitigationand

governmentalproceedings,includingtax-relatedexaminationsandothermatters;continuedavailability
offinancing;financialresourcesintheamounts,atthetimesandonthetermsrequiredtosupportM&T
anditssubsidiaries™futurebusinesses;andmaterialdifferencesintheactualfinancialresultsofmerger,

acquisitionandinvestmentactivitiescomparedwithM&T™sinitialexpectations,includingthefull
realizationofanticipatedcostsavingsandrevenueenhancements.
ThesearerepresentativeoftheFutureFactorsthatcouldaffecttheoutcomeoftheforward-
lookingstatements.Inaddition,suchstatementscouldbeaffectedbygeneralindustryandmarket
conditionsandgrowthrates,generaleconomicandpoliticalconditions,eithernationallyorinthestates
inwhichM&Tanditssubsidiariesdobusiness,includinginterestrateandcurrencyexchangerate

fluctuations,changesandtrendsinthesecuritiesmarkets,andotherFutureFactors.
96Table23
QUARTERLYTRENDS
Earningsanddividends
FourthThirdSecondFirstFourthThirdSecondFirst
2010Quarters2009Quarters
Amountsinthousands,exceptpershare
Interestincome(taxable-equivalentbasis).................$688,855$691,765$690,889$682,309$698,556$706,388$682,637$659,445

Interestexpense.................................108,628116,032117,557120,052133,950152,938175,856206,705
Netinterestincome..............................580,227575,733573,332562,257564,606553,450506,781452,740
Less:provisionforcreditlosses.......................85,00093,00085,000105,000145,000154,000147,000158,000

Otherincome..................................286,938289,899273,557257,706265,890278,226271,649232,341

Less:otherexpense...............................469,274480,133476,068489,362478,451500,056563,710438,346
Incomebeforeincometaxes.........................312,891292,499285,821225,601207,045177,62067,72088,735
Applicableincometaxes............................102,31994,61990,96768,72364,34044,16111,31819,581
Taxable-equivalentadjustment........................6,1305,8656,1055,9235,8875,7955,2144,933
Netincome...................................$204,442$192,015$188,749$150,955$136,818$127,664$51,188$64,221
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders-diluted.........$189,678$176,789$173,597$136,431$122,910$113,89440,51654,618
Percommonsharedata
Basicearnings................................$1.59$1.49$1.47$1.16$1.05$.97$.36$.49

Dilutedearnings...............................1.591.481.461.151.04.97.36.49
Cashdividends................................$.70$.70$.70$.70$.70$.70$.70$.70
Averagecommonsharesoutstanding
Basic......................................118,613118,320118,054117,765117,506117,370113,218110,439

Diluted....................................119,503119,155118,878118,256117,672117,547113,521110,439
Performanceratios,annualized

Returnon
Averageassets.................................1.18%1.12%1.11%.89%.79%.73%.31%.40%

Averagecommonshareholders™equity..................10.03%9.56%9.67%7.86%7.09%6.72%2.53%3.61%
Netinterestmarginonaverageearningassets(taxable-equivalent
basis)......................................3.85%3.87%3.84%3.78%3.71%3.61%3.43%3.19%
Nonaccrualloanstototalloansandleases,netofunearned
discount....................................2.38%2.16%2.13%2.60%2.56%2.35%2.11%2.05%
Efficiencyratio(a)................................54.08%54.95%54.77%57.82%54.62%57.21%61.93%60.82%

Netoperating(tangible)results(b)

Netoperatingincome(inthousands)....................$196,235$200,225$197,752$160,953$150,776$128,761$100,805$75,034

Dilutednetoperatingincomepercommonshare............1.521.551.531.231.16.98.79.59

Annualizedreturnon
Averagetangibleassets...........................1.20%1.24%1.23%1.00%.92%.78%.64%.50%
Averagetangiblecommonshareholders™equity.............18.43%19.58%20.36%17.34%16.73%14.87%12.08%9.36%
Efficiencyratio(a)................................52.55%53.40%53.06%55.88%52.69%55.21%60.03%58.68%

Balancesheetdata

Inmillions,exceptpershare

Averagebalances
Totalassets(c)................................$68,502$67,811$68,334$68,883$68,919$69,154$66,984$64,766

Totaltangibleassets(c)...........................64,86964,16764,67965,21665,24065,46263,50061,420
Earningassets................................59,73759,06659,81160,33160,45160,90059,29757,509
Investmentsecurities............................7,5417,9938,3768,1728,1978,4208,5088,490

Loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount...............51,14150,83551,27851,94852,08752,32050,55448,824

Deposits....................................49,27147,53047,93247,39447,36546,72043,84641,487

Commonshareholders™equity(c).....................7,5827,4447,3027,1366,9576,7946,4916,212

Tangiblecommonshareholders™equity(c)................3,9493,8003,6473,4693,2783,1023,0072,866
Atendofquarter
Totalassets(c)................................$68,021$68,247$68,154$68,439$68,880$68,997$69,913$64,883

Totaltangibleassets(c)...........................64,39364,60964,50564,77865,20865,31266,21561,544
Earningassets................................59,43459,38859,36859,74159,92859,99361,04456,823
Investmentsecurities............................7,1517,6638,0988,1057,7817,6348,1557,687

Loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount...............51,99050,79251,06151,44451,93752,20452,71548,918

Deposits....................................49,80548,65547,52347,53847,45046,86246,75542,477

Commonshareholders™equity,netofundeclaredpreferred
dividends(c)................................7,6117,4887,3607,1777,0176,8796,6696,329
Tangiblecommonshareholders™equity(c)................3,9833,8503,7113,5163,3453,1942,9712,990

Equitypercommonshare.........................63.5462.6961.7760.4059.3158.2256.5156.95
Tangibleequitypercommonshare....................33.2632.2331.1529.5928.2727.0325.1726.90
Marketpricepercommonshare
High......................................$87.87$95.00$96.15$85.00$69.89$67.46$61.87$59.08

Low......................................72.0381.0874.1166.3259.0950.3343.5029.11

Closing....................................87.0581.8184.9579.3866.8962.3250.9345.24
(a)Excludesimpactofmerger-relatedgainsandexpensesandnetsecuritiestransactions.

(b)Excludesamortizationandbalancesrelatedtogoodwillandcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsandmerger-relatedgainsandexpenseswhich
,exceptinthe
calculationoftheefficiencyratio,arenetofapplicableincometaxeffects.AreconciliationofnetincomeandnetoperatingincomeappearsinTabl
e24.
(c)Thedifferencebetweentotalassetsandtotaltangibleassets,andcommonshareholders™equityandtangiblecommonshareholders™equity,repre
sentsgoodwill,
coredepositandotherintangibleassets,netofapplicabledeferredtaxbalances.AreconciliationofsuchbalancesappearsinTable24.
9798Table24
RECONCILIATIONOFQUARTERLYGAAPTONON-GAAPMEASURES
FourthThirdSecondFirstFourthThirdSecondFirst
2010Quarters2009Quarters
Incomestatementdata
Inthousands,exceptpershare

Netincome
Netincome..............................$204,442$192,015$188,749$150,955$136,818$127,664$51,188$64,221
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangible
assets(a)...............................8,0548,2109,0039,99810,15210,2709,2479,337
Merger-relatedgains(a).......................(16,730)
ŠŠŠŠ(17,684)ŠŠ
Merger-relatedexpenses(a)....................469ŠŠŠ3,8068,51140,3701,476
Netoperatingincome........................$196,235$200,225$197,752$160,953$150,776$128,761$100,805$75,034
Earningspercommonshare
Dilutedearningspercommonshare...............$1.59$1.48$1.46$1.15$1.04$.97$.36$.49
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangible
assets(a)................................07.07.07.08.09.09.08.09
Merger-relatedgains(a).......................(.14)
ŠŠŠŠ(.15)ŠŠ
Merger-relatedexpenses(a)....................ŠŠŠŠ.03.07.35.01
Dilutednetoperatingearningspercommonshare....$1.52$1.55$1.53$1.23$1.16$.98$.79$.59
Otherexpense
Otherexpense.............................$469,274$480,133$476,068$489,362$478,451$500,056$563,710$438,346
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets..(13,269)(13,526)(14,833)(16,475)(16,730)(16,924)(15,231)(15,370)

Merger-relatedexpenses......................(771)ŠŠŠ(6,264)(14,010)(66,457)(2,426)
Noninterestoperatingexpense..................$455,234$466,607$461,235$472,887$455,457$469,122$482,022$420,550
Merger-relatedexpenses
Salariesandemployeebenefits..................$7$Š$Š$Š$381$870$8,768$11
Equipmentandnetoccupancy..................44ŠŠŠ5451,8455814
Printing,postageandsupplies..................74ŠŠŠ2336292,514301

Othercostsofoperations.....................646ŠŠŠ5,10510,66654,5942,110
Total.................................$771$Š$Š$Š$6,264$14,010$66,457$2,426
Balancesheetdata
Inmillions

Averageassets
Averageassets.............................$68,502$67,811$68,334$68,883$68,919$69,154$66,984$64,766
Goodwill................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,326)(3,192)

Coredepositandotherintangibleassets............(132)(146)(160)(176)(191)(208)(188)(176)

Deferredtaxes.............................2427303437413022
Averagetangibleassets......................$64,869$64,167$64,679$65,216$65,240$65,462$63,500$61,420
Averagecommonequity
Averagetotalequity.........................$8,322$8,181$8,036$7,868$7,686$7,521$7,127$6,780
Preferredstock............................(740)(737)(734)(732)(729)(727)(636)(568)
Averagecommonequity......................7,5827,4447,3027,1366,9576,7946,4916,212
Goodwill................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,326)(3,192)

Coredepositandotherintangibleassets............(132)(146)(160)(176)(191)(208)(188)(176)

Deferredtaxes.............................2427303437413022
Averagetangiblecommonequity...............$3,949$3,800$3,647$3,469$3,278$3,102$3,007$2,866
Atendofquarter
Totalassets
Totalassets..............................$68,021$68,247$68,154$68,439$68,880$68,997$69,913$64,883

Goodwill................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,192)

Coredepositandotherintangibleassets............(126)(139)(152)(167)(182)(199)(216)(168)

Deferredtaxes.............................2326283135394321
Totaltangibleassets.......................$64,393$64,609$64,505$64,778$65,208$65,312$66,215$61,544
Totalcommonequity
Totalequity..............................$8,358$8,232$8,102$7,916$7,753$7,612$7,400$6,902

Preferredstock............................(741)(738)(735)(733)(730)(728)(725)(568)

UndeclareddividendsŠpreferredstock............(6)(6)(7)(6)(6)(5)(6)(5)
Commonequity,netofundeclaredpreferreddividends..7,6117,4887,3607,1777,0176,8796,6696,329
Goodwill................................(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,525)(3,192)

Coredepositandotherintangibleassets............(126)(139)(152)(167)(182)(199)(216)(168)

Deferredtaxes.............................2326283135394321
Totaltangiblecommonequity.................$3,983$3,850$3,711$3,516$3,345$3,194$2,971$2,990
(a)Afteranyrelatedtaxeffect.
Item7A.
QuantitativeandQualitativeDisclosuresAboutMarketRisk.
IncorporatedbyreferencetothediscussioncontainedinPartII,Item7,ﬁManagement™sDiscussionand
AnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations,ﬂunderthecaptionsﬁLiquidity,MarketRisk,
andInterestRateSensitivityﬂ(includingTable20)andﬁCapital.ﬂ
Item8.
FinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData.
FinancialStatementsandSupplementaryDataconsistofthefinancialstatementsasindexedand
presentedbelowandTable23ﬁQuarterlyTrendsﬂpresentedinPartII,Item7,ﬁManagement™sDiscussion
andAnalysisofFinancialConditionandResultsofOperations.ﬂ
IndextoFinancialStatementsandFinancialStatementSchedules
ReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReporting...
.................................100
ReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm
................................101
ConsolidatedBalanceSheetŠDecember31,2010and2009
...............................102
ConsolidatedStatementofIncomeŠYearsendedDecember31,2010,2009and2008
...........103
ConsolidatedStatementofCashFlowsŠYearsendedDecember31,2010,2009and2008...
.....104
ConsolidatedStatementofChangesinShareholders™EquityŠYearsendedDecember31,2010,
2009and2008.....
..........................................................105
NotestoFinancialStatements
......................................................
106-168
99ReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReporting
Managementisresponsibleforestablishingandmaintainingadequateinternalcontroloverfinancial

reportingatM&TBankCorporationandsubsidiaries(ﬁtheCompanyﬂ).Managementhasassessedthe
effectivenessoftheCompany™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingasofDecember31,2010based
oncriteriadescribedinﬁInternalControlŠIntegratedFrameworkﬂissuedbytheCommitteeof

SponsoringOrganizationsoftheTreadwayCommission.Basedonthatassessment,managementcon-
cludedthattheCompanymaintainedeffectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingasofDecember31,
2010.TheconsolidatedfinancialstatementsoftheCompanyhavebeenauditedbyPricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP,anindependentregisteredpublicaccountingfirm,thatwasengagedtoexpressanopinionastothe
fairnessofpresentationofsuchfinancialstatements.PricewaterhouseCoopersLLPwasalsoengagedtoassess

theeffectivenessoftheCompany™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.Thereportof
PricewaterhouseCoopersLLPfollowsthisreport.
M&TBANKCORPORATION
ROBERT
G.W
ILMERSChairmanoftheBoardandChiefExecutiveOfficer
RENÉF.J
ONESExecutiveVicePresidentandChiefFinancialOfficer
100101ReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirm
TotheBoardofDirectorsandShareholdersof
M&TBankCorporation
Inouropinion,theconsolidatedfinancialstatementslistedintheaccompanyingindexpresentfairly,in
allmaterialrespects,thefinancialpositionofM&TBankCorporationanditssubsidiaries(the
ﬁCompanyﬂ)atDecember31,2010and2009,andtheresultsofitsoperationsanditscashflowsforeach
ofthethreeyearsintheperiodendedDecember31,2010inconformitywithaccountingprinciples
generallyacceptedintheUnitedStatesofAmerica.Alsoinouropinion,theCompanymaintained,inall

materialrespects,effectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingasofDecember31,2010,basedon
criteriaestablishedin
InternalControlŠIntegratedFramework
issuedbytheCommitteeofSponsoring
OrganizationsoftheTreadwayCommission(COSO).TheCompany™smanagementisresponsiblefor
thesefinancialstatements,formaintainingeffectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingandforits
assessmentoftheeffectivenessofinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting,includedintheaccompanying
ReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReporting.Ourresponsibilityistoexpressopinionsonthese
financialstatementsandontheCompany™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingbasedonour

integratedaudits.WeconductedourauditsinaccordancewiththestandardsofthePublicCompany
AccountingOversightBoard(UnitedStates).Thosestandardsrequirethatweplanandperformthe
auditstoobtainreasonableassuranceaboutwhetherthefinancialstatementsarefreeofmaterial
misstatementandwhethereffectiveinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingwasmaintainedinall
materialrespects.Ourauditsofthefinancialstatementsincludedexamining,onatestbasis,evidence

supportingtheamountsanddisclosuresinthefinancialstatements,assessingtheaccountingprinciples
usedandsignificantestimatesmadebymanagement,andevaluatingtheoverallfinancialstatement
presentation.Ourauditofinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingincludedobtaininganunderstanding
ofinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting,assessingtheriskthatamaterialweaknessexists,andtesting
andevaluatingthedesignandoperatingeffectivenessofinternalcontrolbasedontheassessedrisk.Our

auditsalsoincludedperformingsuchotherproceduresasweconsiderednecessaryinthecircumstances.
Webelievethatourauditsprovideareasonablebasisforouropinions.
Acompany™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingisaprocessdesignedtoprovidereasonable
assuranceregardingthereliabilityoffinancialreportingandthepreparationoffinancialstatementsfor

externalpurposesinaccordancewithgenerallyacceptedaccountingprinciples.Acompany™sinternal
controloverfinancialreportingincludesthosepoliciesandproceduresthat(i)pertaintothemaintenance
ofrecordsthat,inreasonabledetail,accuratelyandfairlyreflectthetransactionsanddispositionsofthe
assetsofthecompany;(ii)providereasonableassurancethattransactionsarerecordedasnecessaryto
permitpreparationoffinancialstatementsinaccordancewithgenerallyacceptedaccountingprinciples,

andthatreceiptsandexpendituresofthecompanyarebeingmadeonlyinaccordancewithauthoriza-
tionsofmanagementanddirectorsofthecompany;and(iii)providereasonableassuranceregarding
preventionortimelydetectionofunauthorizedacquisition,use,ordispositionofthecompany™sassets
thatcouldhaveamaterialeffectonthefinancialstatements.
Becauseofitsinherentlimitations,internalcontroloverfinancialreportingmaynotpreventordetect
misstatements.Also,projectionsofanyevaluationofeffectivenesstofutureperiodsaresubjecttotherisk
thatcontrolsmaybecomeinadequatebecauseofchangesinconditions,orthatthedegreeofcompliance

withthepoliciesorproceduresmaydeteriorate.
Buffalo,NewYork
February18,2011
102M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
ConsolidatedBalanceSheet
20102009
(Dollarsinthousands,exceptpershare)
December31
AssetsCashandduefrombanks....
......................................$
908,755$1,226,223
Interest-bearingdepositsatbanks...
.................................
101,222133,335
Federalfundssold
................................................
25,00020,119
Tradingaccount.
.................................................
523,834386,984
Investmentsecurities(includespledgedsecuritiesthatcanbesoldorrepledged
of$1,937,817in2010;$1,797,701in2009)
Availableforsale(cost:$5,494,377in2010;$6,997,009in2009).
...........
5,413,4926,704,378
Heldtomaturity(fairvalue:$1,225,253in2010;$416,483in2009)...
......
1,324,339567,607
Other(fairvalue:$412,709in2010;$508,624in2009)..
.................
412,709508,624
Totalinvestmentsecurities
......................................
7,150,5407,780,609
Loansandleases
.................................................
52,315,94252,306,457
Unearneddiscount........
......................................
(325,560)(369,771)
Loansandleases,netofunearneddiscount...
......................
51,990,38251,936,686
Allowanceforcreditlosses..
......................................
(902,941)(878,022)
Loansandleases,net....
......................................
51,087,44151,058,664
Premisesandequipment.....
......................................
435,837435,845
Goodwill
.......................................................
3,524,6253,524,625
Coredepositandotherintangibleassets...
............................
125,917182,418
Accruedinterestandotherassets
.....................................
4,138,0924,131,577
Totalassets.
.................................................
$68,021,263$68,880,399
LiabilitiesNoninterest-bearingdeposits..
......................................
$14,557,568$13,794,636
NOWaccounts.
.................................................
1,393,3491,396,471
Savingsdeposits.
.................................................
26,431,28123,676,798
Timedeposits..
.................................................
5,817,1707,531,495
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice...
.................................
1,605,9161,050,438
Totaldeposits
................................................
49,805,28447,449,838
Federalfundspurchasedandagreementstorepurchasesecurities..
...........
866,5552,211,692
Othershort-termborrowings..
......................................
80,877230,890
Accruedinterestandotherliabilities.
.................................
1,070,701995,056
Long-termborrowings.......
......................................
7,840,15110,240,016
Totalliabilities.........
......................................
59,663,56861,127,492
Shareholders™equity
Preferredstock,$1.00par,1,000,000sharesauthorized,778,000sharesissuedand
outstandingin2010and2009(liquidationpreference$1,000pershare)
......
740,657730,235
Commonstock,$.50par,250,000,000sharesauthorized,120,396,611shares
issuedin2010and2009....
......................................
60,19860,198
Commonstockissuable,71,345sharesin2010;75,170sharesin2009...
......
4,1894,342
Additionalpaid-incapital....
......................................
2,398,6152,442,947
Retainedearnings
................................................
5,426,7015,076,884
Accumulatedothercomprehensiveincome(loss),net
.....................
(205,220)(335,997)
TreasurystockŠcommon,atcostŠ693,974sharesin2010;2,173,916sharesin
2009.
.......................................................
(67,445)(225,702)
Totalshareholders™equity.
......................................
8,357,6957,752,907
Totalliabilitiesandshareholders™equity
............................
$68,021,263$68,880,399
Seeaccompanyingnotestofinancialstatements.
103M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
ConsolidatedStatementofIncome
201020092008
YearEndedDecember31
(Inthousands,exceptpershare)
Interestincome
Loansandleases,includingfees
...................................
$2,394,082$2,326,748$2,825,587
Depositsatbanks
.............................................8834109
Federalfundssold
............................................4263254
Agreementstoresellsecurities
....................................404661,817
Tradingaccount
..............................................6155341,469
Investmentsecurities
Fullytaxable
..............................................324
,695389,268438,409
Exemptfromfederaltaxes
.....................................
9,8698,4849,946
Totalinterestincome
.......................................
2,729,7952,725,1973,277,591
Interestexpense
NOWaccounts..............................................850
1,1222,894
Savingsdeposits
..............................................
85,226112,550248,083
Timedeposits
...............................................100
,241206,220330,389
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice
.................................
1,3682,39184,483
Short-termborrowings
.........................................
3,0067,129142,627
Long-termborrowings
.........................................271
,578340,037529,319
Totalinterestexpense
......................................462
,269669,4491,337,795
Netinterestincome
............................................
2,267,5262,055,7481,939,796
Provisionforcreditlosses
........................................368
,000604,000412,000
Netinterestincomeafterprovisionforcreditlosses
....................
1,899,5261,451,7481,527,796
Otherincome
Mortgagebankingrevenues
......................................184
,625207,561156,012
Servicechargesondepositaccounts
................................478
,133469,195430,532
Trustincome................................................122
,613128,568156,149
Brokerageservicesincome
......................................
49,66957,61164,186
Tradingaccountandforeignexchangegains
..........................
27,28623,12517,630
Gainonbankinvestmentsecurities
................................
2,7701,16534,471
Totalother-than-temporaryimpairment(ﬁOTTIﬂ)losses
.................
(115,947)(264,363)(182,222)
PortionofOTTIlossesrecognizedinothercomprehensive
income(beforetaxes)
........................................
29,666126,066Š
NetOTTIlossesrecognizedinearnings
...........................
(86,281)(138,297)(182,222)
EquityinearningsofBayviewLendingGroupLLC
.....................
(25,768)(25,898)(37,453)
Otherrevenuesfromoperations
..................................355
,053325,076299,674
Totalotherincome........................................
1,108,1001,048,106938,979
Otherexpense
Salariesandemployeebenefits
...................................999
,7091,001,873957,086
Equipmentandnetoccupancy
...................................216
,064211,391188,845
Printing,postageandsupplies
....................................
33,84738,21635,860
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets
.................
58,10364,25566,646
FDICassessments
............................................
79,32496,5196,689
Othercostsofoperations
.......................................527
,790568,309471,870
Totalotherexpense........................................
1,914,8371,980,5631,726,996
Incomebeforetaxes...........................................
1,092,789519,291739,779
Incometaxes..................................................356
,628139,400183,892
Netincome
.................................................$736
,161$379,891$555,887
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders
........................
Basic......................................................$675
,826$332,006$555,096
Diluted....................................................675
,853332,006555,096
Netincomepercommonshare
Basic......................................................$
5.72$2.90$5.04
Diluted....................................................
5.692.895.01
Seeaccompanyingnotestofinancialstatements.
M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
ConsolidatedStatementofCashFlows
201020092008
YearEndedDecember31
(Inthousands)
Cashflowsfromoperatingactivities
Netincome..............................................................$736,161$379,891$555,887

Adjustmentstoreconcilenetincometonetcashprovidedbyoperatingactivities
Provisionforcreditlosses....................................................368,000604,000412,000
Depreciationandamortizationofpremisesandequipment...............................67,67764,39853,422
Amortizationofcapitalizedservicingrights.........................................56,58262,26865,722

Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassets.................................58,10364,25566,646
Provisionfordeferredincometaxes..............................................51,06882,501(17,020)
Assetwrite-downs........................................................101,106171,225190,079

Netgainonsalesofassets....................................................(10,426)(88)(24,961)
Netchangeinaccruedinterestreceivable,payable.....................................(9,942)(38,920)15,023
Netchangeinotheraccruedincomeandexpense.....................................144,705(154,992)(201,402)

Netchangeinloansoriginatedforsale............................................202,089(57,105)471,543

Netchangeintradingaccountassetsandliabilities....................................(89,476)11,95641,477
Netcashprovidedbyoperatingactivities..........................................1,675,6471,189,3891,628,416
Cashflowsfrominvestingactivities
Proceedsfromsalesofinvestmentsecurities
Availableforsale.........................................................23,3109,42757,843
Other................................................................107,320137,577115,207
Proceedsfrommaturitiesofinvestmentsecurities
Availableforsale.........................................................1,539,5912,187,5531,908,725
Heldtomaturity.........................................................248,087125,46692,343
Purchasesofinvestmentsecurities
Availableforsale.........................................................(440,560)(651,549)(836,448)
Heldtomaturity.........................................................(1,003,796)(37,453)(198,418)
Other................................................................(7,647)(21,088)(191,995)
Net(increase)decreaseinagreementstoresellsecurities...................................Š90,000(90,000)
Net(increase)decreaseinloansandleases...........................................(201,854)657,458(2,873,642)
Net(increase)decreaseininterest-bearingdepositsatbanks................................32,113(123,051)8,147

Otherinvestments,net.......................................................(52,179)(35,934)(35,649)

Additionstocapitalizedservicingrights.............................................(594)(379)(24,349)
Capitalexpenditures,net......................................................(70,458)(58,967)(72,234)
Acquisitions,netofcashacquired
Banksandbankholdingcompanies..............................................213,204202,993Š
Other,net...............................................................88,87319,642(123,289)
Netcashprovided(used)byinvestingactivities......................................475,4102,501,695(2,263,759)
Cashflowsfromfinancingactivities
Netincrease(decrease)indeposits................................................1,879,491(528,964)1,317,764
Netdecreaseinshort-termborrowings.............................................(1,522,646)(745,251)(2,811,736)
Proceedsfromlong-termborrowings..............................................1,387Š3,850,010

Paymentsonlong-termborrowings...............................................(2,515,729)(2,390,182)(2,216,978)
DividendspaidŠcommon....................................................(335,303)(325,706)(308,501)
DividendspaidŠpreferred....................................................(40,225)(31,946)Š

Proceedsfromissuanceofpreferredstockandwarrants...................................ŠŠ600,000
Other,net...............................................................69,3819,1565,388
Netcashprovided(used)byfinancingactivities......................................(2,463,644)(4,012,893)435,947
Netdecreaseincashandcashequivalents.............................................(312,587)(321,809)(199,396)
Cashandcashequivalentsatbeginningofyear..........................................1,246,3421,568,1511,767,547
Cashandcashequivalentsatendofyear..............................................$933,755$1,246,342$1,568,151
Supplementaldisclosureofcashflowinformation
Interestreceivedduringtheyear.................................................$2,765,101$2,748,880$3,374,219
Interestpaidduringtheyear...................................................490,767704,1731,363,351
Incometaxespaid(refunded)duringtheyear.........................................287,740(19,549)290,324
Supplementalscheduleofnoncashinvestingandfinancingactivities
Realestateacquiredinsettlementofloans...........................................$199,285$102,392$142,517
Acquisitions
Fairvalueof
Assetsacquired(noncash)..................................................342,4436,581,433Š
Liabilitiesassumed.......................................................528,1086,318,998Š

Preferredstockissued.....................................................Š155,779Š

Commonstockissued....................................................Š272,824Š
Commonstockoptions....................................................Š1,367Š
Commonstockwarrants...................................................Š6,467Š

Increase(decrease)fromconsolidationofsecuritizationtrusts............................
Loans.............................................................423,865ŠŠ
InvestmentsecuritiesŠavailableforsale.......................................(360,471)ŠŠ

Long-termborrowings...................................................65,419ŠŠ
Accruedinterestandother................................................2,025ŠŠ
Securitizationofresidentialmortgageloansallocatedto
Availableforsaleinvestmentsecurities............................................Š140,942866,169

Capitalizedservicingrights...................................................Š7888,455
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsaletransferredtoheldtomaturity..........................ŠŠ298,108
Seeaccompanyingnotestofinancialstatements.
104M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
ConsolidatedStatementofChangesinShareholders™Equity
Preferred
StockCommonStockCommonStockIssuableAdditional
Paid-in
CapitalRetainedEarningsAccumulated
OtherComprehensive
Income(Loss),
Net
Treasury
StockTotal
(Inthousands,exceptpershare)
2008BalanceŠJanuary1,2008......
..................$Š
60,1984,7762,848,7524,815,585(114,822)(1,129,233)6,485,256
Comprehensiveincome:
Netincome...
.............................ŠŠŠŠ
555,887ŠŠ555,887
Othercomprehensiveincome,netoftaxandreclassification
adjustments:Unrealizedlossesoninvestmentsecurities
...........ŠŠŠŠŠ
(497,262)Š(497,262)
Definedbenefitplansliabilityadjustment
...........ŠŠŠŠŠ
(127,845)Š(127,845)
Unrealizedlossesonterminatedcashflowhedges...
....ŠŠŠŠŠ
3,048Š3,048
(66,172)Issuanceofpreferredstockandassociatedwarrants
...........
567,463ŠŠ32,537ŠŠŠ600,000
Repaymentofmanagementstockownershipprogramreceivable
....ŠŠŠ72ŠŠŠ72
Stock-basedcompensationplans:
Compensationexpense
.........................ŠŠŠ
46,025ŠŠ3,60249,627
Exercises....
.............................ŠŠŠ
(28,543)ŠŠ51,54823,005
Directors™stockplan..
.........................ŠŠŠ
(450)ŠŠ1,7971,347
Deferredcompensationplans,net,includingdividendequivalents..ŠŠ(159)(486)(217)Š95997
CommonstockcashdividendsŠ$2.80pershare.
...........ŠŠŠŠ
(308,501)ŠŠ(308,501)
BalanceŠDecember31,2008.....
..................
$567,46360,1984,6172,897,9075,062,754(736,881)(1,071,327)6,784,731
2009
Comprehensiveincome:
Netincome...
.............................ŠŠŠŠ
379,891ŠŠ379,891
Othercomprehensiveincome,netoftaxandreclassification
adjustments:Unrealizedgainsoninvestmentsecurities
...........ŠŠŠŠŠ
337,043Š337,043
Definedbenefitplansliabilityadjustment
...........ŠŠŠŠŠ
57,284Š57,284
Unrealizedlossesonterminatedcashflowhedges...
....ŠŠŠŠŠ
6,557Š6,557
780,775AcquisitionofProvidentBanksharesCorporation:
Preferredstockissued
.........................
155,779ŠŠŠŠŠŠ155,779
Commonstockissued......
..................ŠŠŠ
(348,080)ŠŠ620,904272,824
Commonstockoptions......
..................ŠŠŠ
1,367ŠŠŠ1,367
Commonstockwarrants.....
..................ŠŠŠ
6,467ŠŠŠ6,467
Issuanceofcommonstocktodefinedbenefitpensionplan...
....ŠŠŠ
(51,417)ŠŠ95,70644,289
Preferredstockcashdividends.....
..................ŠŠŠŠ
(31,946)ŠŠ(31,946)
Amortizationofpreferredstockdiscount......
...........
6,993ŠŠŠ(6,993)ŠŠŠ
Repaymentofmanagementstockownershipprogramreceivable
....ŠŠŠ195ŠŠŠ195
Stock-basedcompensationplans:
Compensationexpense
.........................ŠŠŠ
(21,773)ŠŠ75,27853,505
Exercises....
.............................ŠŠŠ
(39,936)ŠŠ50,17010,234
Directors™stockplan..
.........................ŠŠŠ
(1,280)ŠŠ2,5311,251
Deferredcompensationplans,net,includingdividendequivalents..ŠŠ(275)(503)(205)Š1,03653
CommonstockcashdividendsŠ$2.80pershare.
...........ŠŠŠŠ
(326,617)ŠŠ(326,617)
BalanceŠDecember31,2009.....
..................
$730,23560,1984,3422,442,9475,076,884(335,997)(225,702)7,752,907
2010Comprehensiveincome:
Netincome...
.............................ŠŠŠŠ
736,161ŠŠ736,161
Othercomprehensiveincome,netoftaxandreclassification
adjustments:Unrealizedgainsoninvestmentsecurities
...........ŠŠŠŠŠ
134,904Š134,904
Definedbenefitplansliabilityadjustment
...........ŠŠŠŠŠ
(3,846)Š(3,846)
Unrealizedgainsonterminatedcashflowhedge...
....ŠŠŠŠŠ
(281)Š(281)
866,938Preferredstockcashdividends.....
..................ŠŠŠ
(40,225)ŠŠ(40,225)
Amortizationofpreferredstockdiscount......
...........
10,422ŠŠŠ(10,422)ŠŠŠ
Repaymentofmanagementstockownershipprogramreceivable
....ŠŠŠ
3,783ŠŠŠ3,783
Stock-basedcompensationplans:
Compensationexpense
.........................ŠŠŠ
5,491ŠŠ48,84454,335
Exercisesofstockoptions......
..................ŠŠŠ
(46,248)ŠŠ96,86850,620
Stockpurchaseplan..
.........................ŠŠŠ
(8,482)ŠŠ17,4808,998
Directors™stockplan..
.........................ŠŠŠ
(362)ŠŠ1,4791,117
Deferredcompensationplans,net,includingdividendequivalents..ŠŠ(153)(305)(195)Š639(14)
Other......
.............................ŠŠŠ
1,791ŠŠ(7,053)(5,262)
CommonstockcashdividendsŠ$2.80pershare.
...........ŠŠŠŠ
(335,502)ŠŠ(335,502)
BalanceŠDecember31,2010.....
..................
$740,65760,1984,1892,398,6155,426,701(205,220)(67,445)8,357,695
Seeaccompanyingnotestofinancialstatements.
105M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatements

1.Significantaccountingpolicies
M&TBankCorporation(ﬁM&Tﬂ)isabankholdingcompanyheadquarteredinBuffalo,NewYork.
Throughsubsidiaries,M&Tprovidesindividuals,corporationsandotherbusinesses,andinstitutionswith

commercialandretailbankingservices,includingloansanddeposits,trust,mortgagebanking,asset
management,insuranceandotherfinancialservices.Bankingactivitiesarelargelyfocusedonconsumers
residinginNewYorkState,Pennsylvania,Maryland,VirginiaandtheDistrictofColumbiaandonsmall

andmedium-sizebusinessesbasedinthoseareas.BankingservicesarealsoprovidedinDelaware,West
VirginiaandNewJersey,whilecertainsubsidiariesalsoconductactivitiesinotherareas.
TheaccountingandreportingpoliciesofM&Tandsubsidiaries(ﬁtheCompanyﬂ)conformto
generallyacceptedaccountingprinciples(ﬁGAAPﬂ)andtogeneralpracticeswithinthebankingindustry.

ThepreparationoffinancialstatementsinconformitywithGAAPrequiresmanagementtomake
estimatesandassumptionsthataffectthereportedamountsofassetsandliabilitiesanddisclosureof
contingentassetsandliabilitiesatthedateofthefinancialstatementsandthereportedamountsof

revenuesandexpensesduringthereportingperiod.Actualresultscoulddifferfromthoseestimates.The
moresignificantaccountingpoliciesareasfollows:
Consolidation
TheconsolidatedfinancialstatementsincludeM&Tandallofitssubsidiaries.Allsignificantintercom-
panyaccountsandtransactionsofconsolidatedsubsidiarieshavebeeneliminatedinconsolidation.The
financialstatementsofM&Tincludedinnote26reportinvestmentsinsubsidiariesundertheequity

method.InformationaboutsomelimitedpurposeentitiesthatareaffiliatesoftheCompanybutarenot

includedintheconsolidatedfinancialstatementsappearsinnote19.
ConsolidatedStatementofCashFlows
Forpurposesofthisstatement,cashandduefrombanksandfederalfundssoldareconsideredcashand

cashequivalents.
Securitiespurchasedunderagreementstoresellandsecuritiessoldunderagreementstorepurchase
Securitiespurchasedunderagreementstoresellandsecuritiessoldunderagreementstorepurchaseare
treatedascollateralizedfinancingtransactionsandarerecordedatamountsequaltothecashorother

considerationexchanged.ItisgenerallytheCompany™spolicytotakepossessionofcollateralpledgedto
secureagreementstoresell.
Tradingaccount
Financialinstrumentsusedfortradingpurposesarestatedatfairvalue.Realizedgainsandlossesand

unrealizedchangesinfairvalueoffinancialinstrumentsutilizedintradingactivitiesareincludedin
ﬁtradingaccountandforeignexchangegainsﬂintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.
Investmentsecurities
Investmentsindebtsecuritiesareclassifiedasheldtomaturityandstatedatamortizedcostwhen

managementhasthepositiveintentandabilitytoholdsuchsecuritiestomaturity.Investmentsinother
debtsecuritiesandequitysecuritieshavingreadilydeterminablefairvaluesareclassifiedasavailablefor
saleandstatedatestimatedfairvalue.Amortizationofpremiumsandaccretionofdiscountsfor

investmentsecuritiesavailableforsaleandheldtomaturityareincludedininterestincome.Exceptfor
investmentsecuritiesforwhichtheCompanyhasenteredintoarelatedfairvaluehedge,unrealizedgains
orlossesoninvestmentsecuritiesavailableforsalearereflectedinaccumulatedothercomprehensive

income(loss),netofapplicableincometaxes.
OthersecuritiesarestatedatcostandincludestockoftheFederalReserveBankofNewYorkand
theFederalHomeLoanBank(ﬁFHLBﬂ)ofNewYork.
Thecostbasisofindividualsecuritiesiswrittendownthroughachargetoearningswhendeclines
invaluebelowamortizedcostareconsideredtobeotherthantemporary.Incaseswherefairvalueisless
thanamortizedcostandtheCompanyintendstoselladebtsecurity,itismorelikelythannottobe

requiredtoselladebtsecuritybeforerecoveryofitsamortizedcostbasis,ortheCompanydoesnot
106expecttorecovertheentireamortizedcostbasisofadebtsecurity,another-than-temporaryimpairment
isconsideredtohaveoccurred.IftheCompanyintendstosellthedebtsecurityormorelikelythannot
willberequiredtosellthesecuritybeforerecoveryofitsamortizedcostbasis,theother-than-temporary

impairmentisrecognizedinearningsequaltotheentiredifferencebetweenthedebtsecurity™samortized
costbasisanditsfairvalueatthebalancesheetdate.IftheCompanydoesnotexpecttorecoverthe
entireamortizedcostbasisofthesecurity,theCompanydoesnotintendtosellthesecurityanditisnot

morelikelythannotthattheCompanywillberequiredtosellthesecuritybeforerecoveryofits
amortizedcostbasis,theother-than-temporaryimpairmentisseparatedinto(a)theamountrepresenting
thecreditlossand(b)theamountrelatedtoallotherfactors.Theamountoftheother-than-temporary

impairmentrelatedtothecreditlossisrecognizedinearningswhiletheamountrelatedtootherfactors
isrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincome,netofapplicabletaxes.Subsequently,theCompany
accountsfortheother-than-temporarilyimpaireddebtsecurityasifthesecurityhadbeenpurchasedon

themeasurementdateoftheother-than-temporaryimpairmentatanamortizedcostbasisequaltothe
previousamortizedcostbasislesstheother-than-temporaryimpairmentrecognizedinearnings.Thecost
basisofindividualequitysecuritiesiswrittendowntoestimatedfairvaluethroughachargetoearnings

whendeclinesinvaluebelowcostareconsideredtobeotherthantemporary.Realizedgainsandlosses
onthesalesofinvestmentsecuritiesaredeterminedusingthespecificidentificationmethod.
Loansandleases
Interestincomeonloansisaccruedonalevelyieldmethod.Loansareplacedonnonaccrualstatusand
previouslyaccruedinterestthereonischargedagainstincomewhenprincipalorinterestisdelinquent

90days,unlessmanagementdeterminesthattheloanstatusclearlywarrantsothertreatment.Loan
balancesarechargedoffwhenitbecomesevidentthatsuchbalancesarenotfullycollectible.Forloans
securedbyresidentialrealestate,theexcessoftheloanbalancesoverthenetrealizablevalueofthe

propertycollateralizingtheloanischarged-offwhentheloanbecomes150daysdelinquent.Loanfees
andcertaindirectloanoriginationcostsaredeferredandrecognizedasaninterestyieldadjustmentover
thelifeoftheloan.Netdeferredfeeshavebeenincludedinunearneddiscountasareductionofloans

outstanding.CommitmentstosellrealestateloansareutilizedbytheCompanytohedgetheexposureto
changesinfairvalueofrealestateloansheldforsale.Thecarryingvalueofhedgedrealestateloansheld
forsalerecordedintheconsolidatedbalancesheetincludeschangesinestimatedfairmarketvalueduring

thehedgeperiod,typicallyfromthedateofclosethroughthesaledate.Valuationadjustmentsmadeon

theseloansandcommitmentsareincludedinﬁmortgagebankingrevenues.ﬂ
Exceptforconsumerandresidentialmortgageloansthatareconsideredsmallerbalancehomoge-
nousloansandareevaluatedcollectivelyandpurchased-impairedloans,theCompanyconsidersaloanto

beimpairedforpurposesofapplyingGAAPwhen,basedoncurrentinformationandevents,itis
probablethattheCompanywillbeunabletocollectallamountsaccordingtothecontractualtermsof
theloanagreementortheloanisdelinquent90days.Purchased-impairedloansareconsideredimpaired

underGAAPwhenitisprobablethattheCompanywillbeunabletocollectallcashflowsexpectedat
acquisitionplusadditionalcashflowsexpectedtobecollectedarisingfromchangesinestimatesafter
acquisition.Regardlessofloantype,theCompanyconsidersaloantobeimpairedifitqualifiesasa

troubleddebtrestructuring.Impairedloansareclassifiedaseithernonaccrualorasloansrenegotiatedat
belowmarketrates,withtheexceptionofpurchased-impairedloanswhichcontinuetoaccreteincomein
accordancewithGAAP.Certainloansgreaterthan90daysdelinquentarenotconsideredimpairedifthey

arebothwell-securedandintheprocessofcollection.Loanslessthan90daysdelinquentaredeemedto
haveaninsignificantdelayinpaymentandaregenerallynotconsideredimpaired.Impairmentofaloan
ismeasuredbasedonthepresentvalueofexpectedfuturecashflowsdiscountedattheloan™seffective

interestrate,theloan™sobservablemarketprice,orthefairvalueofcollateraliftheloaniscollateral-
dependent.Interestreceivedonimpairedloansplacedonnonaccrualstatusisgenerallyappliedtoreduce
thecarryingvalueoftheloanor,ifprincipalisconsideredfullycollectible,recognizedasinterestincome.
DuetochangesinGAAPforloansacquiredinabusinesscombinationsubsequenttoDecember31,
2008,theexcessofcashflowsexpectedatacquisitionovertheestimatedfairvalueisrecognizedas
interestincomeovertheremaininglivesoftheloans.Becausethoseloansarerecordedatfairvalue,no

carry-overofanacquiredentity™spreviouslyestablishedallowanceforcreditlossesmayberecorded.
107M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
SubsequentdecreasesintheexpectedcashflowsrequiretheCompanytoevaluatetheneedforadditions
totheCompany™sallowanceforcreditlosses.Subsequentimprovementsinexpectedcashflowsresultin
therecognitionofadditionalinterestincomeoverthethenremaininglivesoftheloans.
Residualvalueestimatesforcommercialleasesaregenerallydeterminedthroughinternalor
externalreviewsoftheleasedproperty.TheCompanyreviewscommercialleaseresidualvaluesatleast
annuallyandrecognizesresidualvalueimpairmentsdeemedtobeotherthantemporary.
Allowanceforcreditlosses
Theallowanceforcreditlossesrepresentstheamountwhich,inmanagement™sjudgment,willbeadequate
toabsorbcreditlossesinherentintheloanandleaseportfolioasofthebalancesheetdate.Theadequacy
oftheallowanceisdeterminedbymanagement™sevaluationoftheloanandleaseportfoliobasedonsuch

factorsasthedifferingeconomicrisksassociatedwitheachloancategory,thecurrentfinancialcondition

ofspecificborrowers,theeconomicenvironmentinwhichborrowersoperate,thelevelofdelinquent
loans,thevalueofanycollateraland,whereapplicable,theexistenceofanyguaranteesor
indemnifications.Assetstakeninforeclosureofdefaultedloans
Assetstakeninforeclosureofdefaultedloansareprimarilycomprisedofcommercialandresidentialreal
propertyandareincludedinﬁotherassetsﬂintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Uponacquisitionofassets
takeninsatisfactionofadefaultedloan,theexcessoftheremainingloanbalanceovertheasset™s

estimatedfairvaluelesscoststosellischargedoffagainsttheallowanceforcreditlosses.Subsequent
declinesinvalueoftheassetsarerecognizedasﬁotherexpenseﬂintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.
Premisesandequipment
Premisesandequipmentarestatedatcostlessaccumulateddepreciation.Depreciationexpenseis
computedprincipallyusingthestraight-linemethodovertheestimatedusefullivesoftheassets.
Capitalizedservicingrights
Capitalizedservicingassetsareincludedinﬁotherassetsﬂintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Separately
recognizedservicingassetsareinitiallymeasuredatfairvalue.TheCompanyusestheamortization
methodtosubsequentlymeasureservicingassets.Underthatmethod,capitalizedservicingassetsare

chargedtoexpenseinproportiontoandovertheperiodofestimatednetservicingincome.
Toestimatethefairvalueofservicingrights,theCompanyconsidersmarketpricesforsimilar
assetsandthepresentvalueofexpectedfuturecashflowsassociatedwiththeservicingrightscalculated

usingassumptionsthatmarketparticipantswoulduseinestimatingfutureservicingincomeandexpense.
Suchassumptionsincludeestimatesofthecostofservicingloans,loandefaultrates,anappropriate
discountrate,andprepaymentspeeds.Forpurposesofevaluatingandmeasuringimpairmentof

capitalizedservicingrights,theCompanystratifiessuchassetsbasedonthepredominantriskcharacter-
isticsoftheunderlyingfinancialinstrumentsthatareexpectedtohavethemostimpactonprojected
prepayments,costofservicingandotherfactorsaffectingfuturecashflowsassociatedwiththeservicing

rights.Suchfactorsmayincludefinancialassetorloantype,noterateandterm.Theamountof

impairmentrecognizedistheamountbywhichthecarryingvalueofthecapitalizedservicingrightsfora
stratumexceedsestimatedfairvalue.Impairmentisrecognizedthroughavaluationallowance.
Salesandsecuritizationsoffinancialassets
DuetochangesinGAAP,transfersoffinancialassetsthatoccuronorafterJanuary1,2010forwhichthe

Companyhassurrenderedcontrolofthefinancialassetsareaccountedforassales.Interestsinasaleof
financialassetsthatcontinuetobeheldbytheCompany,includingservicingrights,aremeasuredatfair
value.PriortoJanuary1,2010,transfersoffinancialassetsforwhichtheCompanyhadsurrendered

controlofthefinancialassetswereaccountedforassalestotheextentthatconsiderationotherthan
beneficialinterestsinthetransferredassetswasreceivedinexchange.Interestsinasaleorsecuritization
offinancialassetsthatcontinuedtobeheldbytheCompany,otherthanservicingrightswhichwere

initiallymeasuredatfairvalue,weremeasuredatthedateoftransferbyallocatingthepreviouscarrying
108M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
amountbetweentheassetstransferredandtheretainedinterestsbasedontheirrelativeestimatedfair
values.Thefairvaluesofretaineddebtsecuritiesaregenerallydeterminedthroughreferenceto
independentpricinginformation.Thefairvaluesofretainedservicingrightsandanyotherretained

interestsaredeterminedbasedonthepresentvalueofexpectedfuturecashflowsassociatedwiththose
interestsandbyreferencetomarketpricesforsimilarassets.
AlsoduetochangesinGAAP,fortransfersoffinancialassetsthatoccuronorafterJanuary1,
2010theexceptionthatpermittedsaleaccountingforcertainmortgagesecuritizationswhenatransferor
hasnotsurrenderedcontroloverthetransferredassetswaseliminated.ThechangeinGAAPalso
eliminatedtheconceptofqualifyingspecial-purposeentities.Asaresult,beginningJanuary1,2010,all

formerlyqualifyingspecial-purposeentitieshadtobere-evaluatedinaccordancewiththeapplicable
consolidationguidance.Additionalinformationontheeffectsofthisaccountingchangeandchangesin
theaccountingguidancerelatingtotheconsolidationofvariableinterestentitiesisincludedinnote19.
Goodwillandcoredepositandotherintangibleassets
Goodwillrepresentstheexcessofthecostofanacquiredentityoverthefairvalueoftheidentifiablenet
assetsacquired.Goodwillisnotamortized,butratheristestedforimpairmentatleastannuallyatthe
reportingunitlevel,whichiseitheratthesameleveloronelevelbelowanoperatingsegment.Other

acquiredintangibleassetswithfinitelives,suchascoredepositintangibles,areinitiallyrecordedat
estimatedvalueandareamortizedovertheirestimatedlives.Coredepositandotherintangibleassetsare
generallyamortizedusingacceleratedmethodsoverestimatedusefullivesoffivetotenyears.The

Companyperiodicallyassesseswhethereventsorchangesincircumstancesindicatethatthecarrying
amountsofcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsmaybeimpaired.
Derivativefinancialinstruments
TheCompanyaccountsforderivativefinancialinstrumentsatfairvalue.Ifcertainconditionsaremet,a
derivativemaybespecificallydesignatedas(a)ahedgeoftheexposuretochangesinthefairvalueofa
recognizedassetorliabilityoranunrecognizedfirmcommitment,(b)ahedgeoftheexposuretovariable

cashflowsofaforecastedtransactionor(c)ahedgeoftheforeigncurrencyexposureofanetinvestment
inaforeignoperation,anunrecognizedfirmcommitment,anavailableforsalesecurity,oraforeign
currencydenominatedforecastedtransaction.
TheCompanyutilizesinterestrateswapagreementsaspartofthemanagementofinterestrate
risktomodifytherepricingcharacteristicsofcertainportionsofitsportfoliosofearningassetsand
interest-bearingliabilities.Forsuchagreements,amountsreceivableorpayablearerecognizedasaccrued
underthetermsoftheagreementandthenetdifferentialisrecordedasanadjustmenttointerestincome

orexpenseoftherelatedassetorliability.Interestrateswapagreementsmaybedesignatedaseitherfair
valuehedgesorcashflowhedges.Inafairvaluehedge,thefairvaluesoftheinterestrateswap
agreementsandchangesinthefairvaluesofthehedgeditemsarerecordedintheCompany™s

consolidatedbalancesheetwiththecorrespondinggainorlossrecognizedincurrentearnings.The
differencebetweenchangesinthefairvaluesofinterestrateswapagreementsandthehedgeditems
representshedgeineffectivenessandisrecordedinﬁotherrevenuesfromoperationsﬂintheconsolidated

statementofincome.Inacashflowhedge,theeffectiveportionofthederivative™sunrealizedgainorloss
isinitiallyrecordedasacomponentofothercomprehensiveincomeandsubsequentlyreclassifiedinto
earningswhentheforecastedtransactionaffectsearnings.Theineffectiveportionoftheunrealizedgain

orlossisreportedinﬁotherrevenuesfromoperationsﬂimmediately.
TheCompanyutilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloanstohedgetheexposuretochangesin
thefairvalueofrealestateloansheldforsale.Commitmentstooriginaterealestateloanstobeheldfor

saleandcommitmentstosellrealestateloansaregenerallyrecordedintheconsolidatedbalancesheetat
estimatedfairmarketvalue.
Derivativeinstrumentsnotrelatedtomortgagebankingactivities,includingfinancialfutures
commitmentsandinterestrateswapagreements,thatdonotsatisfythehedgeaccountingrequirements
arerecordedatfairvalueandaregenerallyclassifiedastradingaccountassetsorliabilitieswithresultant
changesinfairvaluebeingrecognizedinﬁtradingaccountandforeignexchangegainsﬂinthe

consolidatedstatementofincome.
109M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
Stock-basedcompensation
Stock-basedcompensationexpenseisrecognizedoverthevestingperiodofthestock-basedgrantbased
ontheestimatedgrantdatevalueofthestock-basedcompensationthatisexpectedtovest,exceptthat

therecognitionofcompensationcostsisacceleratedforstock-basedawardsgrantedtoretirement-eligible
employeesandemployeeswhowillbecomeretirement-eligiblepriortofullvestingoftheawardbecause
theCompany™sincentivecompensationplanallowsforvestingatthetimeanemployeeretires.Informa-

tiononthedeterminationoftheestimatedvalueofstock-basedawardsusedtocalculatestock-based
compensationexpenseisincludedinnote11.
Incometaxes
Deferredtaxassetsandliabilitiesarerecognizedforthefuturetaxeffectsattributabletodifferences

betweenthefinancialstatementvalueofexistingassetsandliabilitiesandtheirrespectivetaxbasesand
carryforwards.Deferredtaxassetsandliabilitiesaremeasuredusingenactedtaxratesandlaws.
TheCompanyevaluatesuncertaintaxpositionsusingthetwo-stepprocessrequiredbyGAAP.The
firststeprequiresadeterminationofwhetheritismorelikelythannotthatataxpositionwillbe
sustaineduponexamination,includingresolutionofanyrelatedappealsorlitigationprocesses,basedon
thetechnicalmeritsoftheposition.Underthesecondstep,ataxpositionthatmeetsthemore-likely-

than-notrecognitionthresholdismeasuredatthelargestamountofbenefitthatisgreaterthanfifty

percentlikelyofbeingrealizeduponultimatesettlement.Informationrelatedtouncertaintaxpositionsis
providedinnote13.
Earningspercommonshare
Basicearningspercommonshareexcludedilutionandarecomputedbydividingincomeavailableto

commonshareholdersbytheweighted-averagenumberofcommonsharesoutstanding(exclusiveof
sharesrepresentedbytheunvestedportionofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunitgrants)and
commonsharesissuableunderdeferredcompensationarrangementsduringtheperiod.Dilutedearnings

percommonsharereflectsharesrepresentedbytheunvestedportionofrestrictedstockandrestricted
stockunitgrantsandthepotentialdilutionthatcouldoccurifsecuritiesorothercontractstoissue
commonstockwereexercisedorconvertedintocommonstockorresultedintheissuanceofcommon

stockthatthensharedinearnings.Proceedsassumedtohavebeenreceivedonsuchexerciseor
conversionareassumedtobeusedtopurchasesharesofM&Tcommonstockattheaveragemarketprice
duringtheperiod,asrequiredbytheﬁtreasurystockmethodﬂofaccounting.
GAAPrequiresthatforfinancialstatementsissuedforfiscalyearsbeginningafterDecember15,
2008andinterimperiodswithinthoseyears,unvestedshare-basedpaymentawardsthatcontain
nonforfeitablerightstodividendsordividendequivalents(whetherpaidorunpaid)shallbeconsidered

participatingsecuritiesandshallbeincludedinthecomputationofearningspercommonsharepursuant
tothetwo-classmethod.In2009and2010,theCompanyissuedstock-basedcompensationawardsinthe
formofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunitsthatcontainsuchrightsand,accordingly,beginningin

2009theCompany™searningspercommonsharearecalculatedusingthetwo-classmethod.Theeffects

oftheapplicationofthetwo-classmethodtoearningspercommonshareamountsforprioryearswere
immaterial.Treasurystock
RepurchasesofsharesofM&Tcommonstockarerecordedatcostasareductionofshareholders™equity.

Reissuancesofsharesoftreasurystockarerecordedataveragecost.
2.Acquisitions
OnNovember5,2010,M&TBank,M&T™sprincipalbankingsubsidiary,enteredintoapurchaseand
assumptionagreementwiththeFederalDepositInsuranceCorporation(ﬁFDICﬂ)toassumeallofthe

deposits,exceptcertainbrokereddeposits,andacquirecertainassetsofKBank,basedinRandallstown,
Maryland.Aspartofthetransaction,M&TBankenteredintoaloss-sharearrangementwiththeFDIC
wherebyM&TBankwillbereimbursedbytheFDICformostlossesitincursontheacquiredloan

portfolio.Thetransactionwasaccountedforusingtheacquisitionmethodofaccountingand,
110M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
accordingly,assetsacquiredandliabilitiesassumedwererecordedatestimatedfairvalueonthe
acquisitiondate.Assetsacquiredinthetransactiontotaledapproximately$556million,including
$154millionofloansand$186millionincash,andliabilitiesassumedaggregated$528million,including
$491millionofdeposits.InaccordancewithGAAP,M&TBankrecordedanafter-taxgainonthe
transactionof$17million($28millionbeforetaxes).Thegainreflectstheamountoffinancialsupport
andindemnificationagainstloanlossesthatM&TBankobtainedfromtheFDIC.Therewasnogoodwill

orotherintangibleassetsrecordedinconnectionwiththistransaction.TheoperationsobtainedintheK
BankacquisitiontransactiondidnothaveamaterialimpactontheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancial
positionorresultsofoperations.
OnNovember1,2010,M&TenteredintoadefinitiveagreementwithWilmingtonTrustCorpora-
tion(ﬁWilmingtonTrustﬂ),headquarteredinWilmington,Delaware,underwhichWilmingtonTrustwill
beacquiredbyM&T.Pursuanttothetermsoftheagreement,WilmingtonTrustcommonshareholders
willreceive.051372sharesofM&TcommonstockinexchangeforeachshareofWilmingtonTrust
commonstockinastock-for-stocktransactionvaluedat$351million(withthepricebasedonM&T™s
closingpriceof$74.75pershareasofOctober29,2010),plustheassumptionof$330millionin
preferredstockissuedbyWilmingtonTrustaspartoftheTroubledAssetReliefProgramŠCapital
PurchaseProgramoftheU.S.DepartmentofTreasury(ﬁU.S.Treasuryﬂ).
AtDecember31,2010,WilmingtonTrusthadapproximately$10.9billionofassets,including
$7.5billionofloans,$10.1billionofliabilities,including$9.0billionofdeposits,and$60.1billionof
combinedassetsundermanagement,including$43.6billionmanagedbyWilmingtonTrustand
$16.5billionmanagedbyaffiliates.Themergerissubjecttoanumberofconditions,includingthe
approvalofvariousstateandFederalregulatorsandWilmingtonTrust™scommonshareholders,andis
expectedtobecompletedbymid-year2011.
OnAugust28,2009,M&TBankenteredintoapurchaseandassumptionagreementwiththe
FDICtoassumeallofthedepositsandacquirecertainassetsofBradfordBank(ﬁBradfordﬂ),Baltimore,
Maryland.Aspartofthetransaction,M&TBankenteredintoaloss-sharearrangementwiththeFDIC
wherebyM&TBankwillbereimbursedbytheFDICformostlossesitincursontheacquiredloan
portfolio.Thetransactionwasaccountedforusingtheacquisitionmethodofaccountingand,accord-
ingly,assetsacquiredandliabilitiesassumedwererecordedatestimatedfairvalueontheacquisitiondate.
Assetsacquiredtotaledapproximately$469million,including$302millionofloans,andliabilities
assumedaggregated$440million,including$361millionofdeposits.InaccordancewithGAAP,M&T
Bankrecordedanafter-taxgainonthetransactionof$18million($29millionbeforetaxes).Therewas
nogoodwillorotherintangibleassetsrecordedinconnectionwiththistransaction.Theoperations
obtainedintheBradfordacquisitiontransactiondidnothaveamaterialimpactontheCompany™s
consolidatedfinancialpositionorresultsofoperations.
OnMay23,2009,M&TacquiredalloftheoutstandingcommonstockofProvidentBankshares
Corporation(ﬁProvidentﬂ),abankholdingcompanybasedinBaltimore,Maryland,inastock-for-stock
transaction.ProvidentBank,Provident™sbankingsubsidiary,wasmergedintoM&TBankonthatdate.
TheresultsofoperationsacquiredintheProvidenttransactionhavebeenincludedintheCompany™s
financialresultssinceMay23,2009.Providentcommonshareholdersreceived.171625sharesofM&T
commonstockinexchangeforeachshareofProvidentcommonstock,resultinginM&Tissuingatotal
of5,838,308commonshareswithanacquisitiondatefairvalueof$273million.Inaddition,basedon
themergeragreement,outstandingandunexercisedoptionstopurchaseProvidentcommonstockwere
convertedintooptionstopurchasethecommonstockofM&T.Thoseoptionshadanestimatedfair
valueof$1million.Intotal,thepurchasepricewasapproximately$274millionbasedonthefairvalue
ontheacquisitiondateofM&TcommonstockexchangedandtheoptionstopurchaseM&Tcommon
stock.HoldersofProvident™spreferredstockwereissuedsharesofnewSeriesBandSeriesCPreferred
StockofM&Thavingsubstantiallyidenticalterms.Thatpreferredstockandwarrantstopurchase
commonstockassociatedwiththeSeriesCPreferredStockadded$162milliontoM&T™sshareholders™
equity.
TheProvidenttransactionwasaccountedforusingtheacquisitionmethodofaccountingand,
accordingly,assetsacquired,liabilitiesassumedandconsiderationexchangedwererecordedatestimated
fairvalueontheacquisitiondate.Assetsacquiredtotaled$6.3billion,including$4.0billionofloansand
111M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
leases(includingapproximately$1.7billionofcommercialrealestateloans,$1.4billionofconsumer
loans,$700millionofcommercialloansandleasesand$300millionofresidentialrealestateloans)and
$1.0billionofinvestmentsecurities.Liabilitiesassumedwere$5.9billion,including$5.1billionof

deposits.Thetransactionadded$436milliontoM&T™sshareholders™equity,including$280millionof
commonequityand$156millionofpreferredequity.Inconnectionwiththeacquisition,theCompany
recorded$332millionofgoodwilland$63millionofcoredepositintangible.Thecoredepositintangible

isbeingamortizedoversevenyearsusinganacceleratedmethod.TheacquisitionofProvidentexpanded
theCompany™spresenceintheMid-Atlanticarea,gavetheCompanythesecondlargestdepositsharein
Maryland,andtripledtheCompany™spresenceinVirginia.
Inmanycases,determiningthefairvalueoftheacquiredassetsandassumedliabilitiesrequired
theCompanytoestimatecashflowsexpectedtoresultfromthoseassetsandliabilitiesandtodiscount
thosecashflowsatappropriateratesofinterest.Themostsignificantofthosedeterminationsrelatedto

thefairvaluationofacquiredloans.Forsuchloans,theexcessofcashflowsexpectedatacquisitionover
theestimatedfairvalueisrecognizedasinterestincomeovertheremaininglivesoftheloans.The
differencebetweencontractuallyrequiredpaymentsatacquisitionandthecashflowsexpectedtobe

collectedatacquisitionreflectstheimpactofestimatedcreditlossesandotherfactors,suchas
prepayments.InaccordancewithGAAP,therewasnocarry-overofProvident™spreviouslyestablished
allowanceforcreditlosses.
InconjunctionwiththeProvidentacquisition,theacquiredloanportfoliowasaccountedforat
fairvalueasfollows:
May23,2009
(Inthousands)
Contractuallyrequiredprincipalandinterestatacquisition...
..........................
$5,465,167Contractualcashflowsnotexpectedtobecollected..
................................
(832,115)Expectedcashflowsatacquisition
...............................................
4,633,052Interestcomponentofexpectedcashflows.........
................................
(595,685)BasisinacquiredloansatacquisitionŠestimatedfairvalue..
..........................
$4,037,367InterestincomeonacquiredloansfortheyearendedDecember31,2010wasapproximately
$162million.FortheperiodfromthedateofacquisitiontoDecember31,2009,interestincomeonsuch
loanswasapproximately$105million.Theoutstandingprincipalbalanceandthecarryingamountof

theseloansthatisincludedintheconsolidatedbalancesheetisasfollows:
20102009
December31
(Inthousands)
Outstandingprincipalbalance..
.......................................
$3,139,025$3,875,415
Carryingamount...
................................................
2,966,7543,644,110
Receivables(includingloansandinvestmentsecurities)obtainedintheacquisitionofProvidentfor
whichtherewasspecificevidenceofcreditdeteriorationandforwhichitwasprobablethattheCompany
wouldbeunabletocollectallcontractuallyrequiredprincipalandinterestpaymentsrepresentlessthan
.25%oftheCompany™sassetsand,accordingly,arenotconsideredmaterial.
ThefollowingtabledisclosestheimpactofProvident(excludingtheimpactofmerger-related
expenses)sincetheacquisitiononMay23,2009throughtheendof2009.Thetablealsopresentscertain
proformainformationfor2009asifProvidenthadbeenacquiredonJanuary1,2009andfor2008asif

ProvidenthadbeenacquiredonJanuary1,2008.TheseresultscombinethehistoricalresultsofProvident
intotheCompany™sconsolidatedstatementofincomeand,whilecertainadjustmentsweremadeforthe
estimatedimpactofcertainfairvaluationadjustmentsandotheracquisition-relatedactivity,theyarenot

indicativeofwhatwouldhaveoccurredhadtheacquisitiontakenplaceontheindicateddates.In
particular,noadjustmentshavebeenmadetoeliminatetheamountofProvident™sprovisionforcredit
lossesof$42millionin2009and$38millionin2008ortheimpactofother-than-temporaryimpairment

lossesrecognizedbyProvidentof$87millionin2009and$121millionin2008thatwouldnothavebeen
112M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
necessaryhadtheacquiredloansandinvestmentsecuritiesbeenrecordedatfairvalueasofthebeginning
ofeachyear.Furthermore,expensesrelatedtosystemsconversionsandothercostsofintegrationare
includedinthe2009periodsinwhichsuchcostswereincurred.Additionally,theCompanyexpectsto

achievefurtheroperatingcostsavingsandotherbusinesssynergiesasaresultoftheacquisitionwhichare
notreflectedintheproformaamountsthatfollow.
ActualSince
AcquisitionThrough
December31,200920092008
ProForma
YearEnded
December31
(Inthousands)
Totalrevenues
.....................................
$194,578$3,823,763$4,533,161
Netincome
.......................................
32,686292,862510,897
TheCompanyincurredmerger-relatedexpensesrelatedtosystemsconversionsandothercostsof
integratingandconformingacquiredoperationswithandintotheCompanyofapproximately$771
thousand($469thousandnetofapplicableincometaxes)during2010,$89million($54millionnetof
applicableincometaxes)during2009and$4million($2millionnetofapplicableincometaxes)during

2008.Thoseexpensesconsistedlargelyofprofessionalservicesandothertemporaryhelpfeesassociated
withtheconversionofsystemsand/orintegrationofoperations;costsrelatedtobranchandoffice
consolidations;costsrelatedtoterminationofexistingcontractualarrangementsforvariousservices;

initialmarketingandpromotionexpensesdesignedtointroduceM&TBanktoitsnewcustomers;

severance(forformerProvidentemployees)andincentivecompensationcosts;travelcosts;andprinting,
postage,suppliesandothercostsofcommencingoperationsinnewmarketsandoffices.Theremaining
unpaidportionofmerger-relatedexpensesatDecember31,2010wasnotsignificant.
Asummaryofmerger-relatedexpensesassociatedwithacquisitionsincludedintheconsolidated
statementofincomefortheyearsendedDecember31,2010,2009and2008follows:
201020092008
(Inthousands)
Salariesandemployeebenefits
........................................$7
$10,030$62
Equipmentandnetoccupancy
.......................................44
2,97549
Printing,postageandsupplies
........................................74
3,677367
Othercostsofoperations...
........................................646
72,4753,069
$771$89,157$3,547
113M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
3.Investmentsecurities
Theamortizedcostandestimatedfairvalueofinvestmentsecuritieswereasfollows:
Amortized
CostGrossUnrealized
GainsGrossUnrealized
LossesEstimatedFairValue
(Inthousands)
December31,2010
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
...................$
61,772$1,680$18$63,434
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions.
........
59,9215615760,425
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed...
..............
3,146,054161,2981,1113,306,241
Privatelyissuedresidential
.......................
1,677,06410,578252,0811,435,561
Privatelyissuedcommercial..
...................
25,357Š2,95022,407
Collateralizeddebtobligations..
...................
95,08024,7549,078110,756
Otherdebtsecurities
.............................
310,01726,88338,000298,900
Equitysecurities..
..............................
119,1125,0988,442115,768
5,494,377230,852311,7375,413,492
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity:
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions.
........
191,1191,944694192,369
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed...
..............
808,10814,061Š822,169
Privatelyissued.
..............................
312,537Š114,397198,140
Otherdebtsecurities
.............................
12,575ŠŠ12,575
1,324,33916,005115,0911,225,253
Othersecurities..
..............................
412,709ŠŠ412,709
Total.
........................................
$7,231,425$246,857$426,828$7,051,454
December31,2009
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
...................$
102,755$1,988$57$104,686
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions.
........
61,4681,58312862,923
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed...
..............
3,777,642131,4076,7673,902,282
Privatelyissuedresidential
.......................
2,438,3539,630383,0792,064,904
Privatelyissuedcommercial..
...................
33,133Š7,96725,166
Collateralizeddebtobligations..
...................
103,15923,38911,202115,346
Otherdebtsecurities
.............................
309,51416,85158,164268,201
Equitysecurities..
..............................
170,9855,59015,705160,870
6,997,009190,438483,0696,704,378
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity:
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions.
........
203,8251,4191,550203,694
Privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities....
........
352,195Š150,993201,202
Otherdebtsecurities
.............................
11,587ŠŠ11,587
567,6071,419152,543416,483
Othersecurities..
..............................
508,624ŠŠ508,624
Total.
........................................
$8,073,240$191,857$635,612$7,629,485
114M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
Noinvestmentinsecuritiesofasinglenon-U.S.Governmentorgovernmentagencyissuer
exceededtenpercentofshareholders™equityatDecember31,2010.
AsofDecember31,2010,thelatestavailableinvestmentratingsofallobligationsofstatesand
politicalsubdivisions,privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities,collateralizeddebtobligationsand
otherdebtsecuritieswere:
Amortized
CostEstimatedFairValueAorBetterBBBBBBorLessNotRated
AverageCreditRatingofFairValueAmount
(Inthousands)
Obligationsofstatesand
politicalsubdivisions
....$
251,040$252,794$172,088$39,222$200$Š$41,284
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Privatelyissued
residential....
......1,989,6011,633,701736,043138,52237,699721,437Š
Privatelyissued
commercial...
......25,35722,40722,407ŠŠŠŠ
Collateralizeddebt
obligations.....
......95,080110,7566,47412,26814,91777,097Š
Otherdebtsecurities
......322,592311,47521,020113,188113,12749,91014,230
Total..
................$
2,683,670$2,331,133$958,032$303,200$165,943$848,444$55,514
Theamortizedcostandestimatedfairvalueofcollateralizedmortgageobligationsincludedin
mortgage-backedsecuritieswereasfollows:
20102009
December31
(Inthousands)
Collateralizedmortgageobligations:
Amortizedcost..
................................................
$2,195,422$3,108,673
Estimatedfairvalue...
............................................
1,840,0462,584,067
Grossrealizedgainsoninvestmentsecuritieswere$3,549,000in2010,$1,629,000in2009and
$34,730,000in2008.Grossrealizedlossesoninvestmentsecuritieswere$779,000in2010,$464,000in
2009and$259,000in2008.EffectiveJanuary1,2009,theCompanyadoptednewGAAPrelatedtothe
recognitionandpresentationofother-than-temporaryimpairmentsofinvestmentsecurities.Inaccor-

dancewithGAAP,theCompanyrecognized$68millionand$128millionofpre-taxother-than-tempo-
raryimpairmentlossesrelatedtoprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesin2010and2009,
respectively.Theimpairmentchargeswererecognizedinlightofdeteriorationofrealestatevaluesanda

riseindelinquenciesandcharge-offsofunderlyingmortgageloanscollateralizingthosesecurities.
Approximately$6millionand$10millionoftheimpairmentchargesrecognizedin2010and2009,
respectively,relatedtocollateralizeddebtobligationsbackedlargelybytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedby

financialinstitutions.Alsoreflectedin2010™simpairmentchargeswasa$12millionchargerelatedto
AmericanDepositaryShares(ﬁADSsﬂ)ofAlliedIrishBanks,p.l.c.(ﬁAIBﬂ)obtainedinM&T™s2003
acquisitionofaformersubsidiaryofAIB.Theother-than-temporaryimpairmentlossesrecognizedwere

netof$30millionand$126millionofunrealizedlossesclassifiedinaccumulatedothercomprehensive
incomerelatedtothosesecuritiesfortheyearsendedDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.The
other-than-temporaryimpairmentlossesrepresentmanagement™sestimateofcreditlossesinherentinthe

securitiesconsideringprojectedcashflowsusingassumptionsofdelinquencyrates,lossseverities,and
otherestimatesoffuturecollateralperformance.Theeffectoftheadoptionofthenewaccounting
requirementsondebtsecuritiespreviouslyreportedasother-than-temporarilyimpairedwasnotmaterial

and,therefore,theCompanydidnotrecordatransitionadjustmentasofJanuary1,2009.During2008,
theCompanyrecognized$182millionofother-than-temporaryimpairmentlosses,mainlyattributableto
a$153millionimpairmentchargerecognizedonitspreferredstockholdingsofTheFederalNational

MortgageAssociation(ﬁFannieMaeﬂ)andTheFederalHomeLoanMortgageCorporation(ﬁFreddie
115M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
Macﬂ)withacostbasisof$162millionfollowingtheplacementofthosegovernment-sponsoredentities
intoconservatorshiponSeptember7,2008.Other-than-temporarychargesof$18millionand$11million
werealsorecognizedduring2008onprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesandsecuritiesbackedby

trustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutions,respectively.
Changesincreditlossesduring2010and2009associatedwithdebtsecuritiesforwhich
other-than-temporaryimpairmentlosseshavebeenpreviouslyrecognizedinearningsfollows:
20102009
YearEndedDecember31
(Inthousands)
EstimatedcreditlossesŠbeginningbalance.............
....................
$284,513$155,967
Additionsforcreditlossesnotpreviouslyrecognized.......
....................
74,288138,297
Reductionsforincreasesincashflows..
....................................
(754)(1,393)
Reductionsforrealizedlosses..
..........................................
(30,135)(8,358)
EstimatedcreditlossesŠendingbalance...............
....................
$327,912$284,513
AtDecember31,2010,theamortizedcostandestimatedfairvalueofdebtsecuritiesbycontractual
maturitywereasfollows:
Amortized
CostEstimatedFairValue
(Inthousands)
Debtsecuritiesavailableforsale:
Dueinoneyearorless..
............................................$
40,263$40,367
Dueafteroneyearthroughfiveyears..
.................................
55,14457,226
Dueafterfiveyearsthroughtenyears..
.................................
22,42124,658
Dueaftertenyears.
................................................
408,962411,264
526,790533,515
Mortgage-backedsecuritiesavailableforsale..
............................
4,848,4754,764,209
$5,375,265$5,297,724
Debtsecuritiesheldtomaturity:
Dueinoneyearorless..
............................................$
28,161$28,353
Dueafteroneyearthroughfiveyears..
.................................
10,62810,971
Dueafterfiveyearsthroughtenyears..
.................................
138,361139,162
Dueaftertenyears.
................................................
26,54426,458
203,694204,944
Mortgage-backedsecuritiesheldtomaturity..
............................
1,120,6451,020,309
$1,324,339$1,225,253
116M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
AsummaryofinvestmentsecuritiesthatasofDecember31,2010and2009hadbeenina
continuousunrealizedlosspositionforlessthantwelvemonthsandthosethathadbeeninacontinuous
unrealizedlosspositionfortwelvemonthsorlongerfollows:
FairValue
Unrealized
LossesFairValue
Unrealized
LossesLessThan12Months12MonthsorMore
(Inthousands)
December31,2010
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:

U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
...................$
27,289$(18)$Š$Š
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions.
.........
3,712(18)2,062(39)
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed...
...............
68,507(1,079)2,965(32)
Privatelyissuedresidential...
....................
61,192(1,054)1,057,315(251,027)
Privatelyissuedcommercial..
....................ŠŠ
22,407(2,950)
Collateralizeddebtobligations..
....................
12,462(6,959)6,004(2,119)
Otherdebtsecurities...
..........................
2,134(10)88,969(37,990)
Equitysecurities..
...............................
5,326(3,721)673(4,721)
180,622(12,859)1,180,395(298,878)
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity:
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions.
.........
76,318(638)467(56)
Privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities...
.........ŠŠ
198,140(114,397)
76,318(638)198,607(114,453)
Total.....
....................................
$256,940$(13,497)$1,379,002$(413,331)
December31,2009
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:

U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
...................$
6,265$(53)$572$(4)
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions.
.........
9,540(83)3,578(45)
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed...
...............
685,319(6,460)19,379(307)
Privatelyissuedresidential...
....................
98,312(2,871)1,504,020(380,208)
Privatelyissuedcommercial..
....................ŠŠ
25,166(7,967)
Collateralizeddebtobligations..
....................
13,046(10,218)3,598(984)
Otherdebtsecurities...
..........................
5,786(174)138,705(57,990)
Equitysecurities..
...............................
7,449(1,728)23,159(13,977)
825,717(21,587)1,718,177(461,482)
Investmentsecuritiesheldtomaturity:
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions.
.........
136,032(1,492)626(58)
Privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities...
.........ŠŠ
201,202(150,993)
136,032(1,492)201,828(151,051)
Total.....
....................................
$961,749$(23,079)$1,920,005$(612,533)
TheCompanyowned542individualinvestmentsecuritieswithaggregategrossunrealizedlossesof
$427millionatDecember31,2010.Approximately$366millionoftheunrealizedlossespertainto
privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritieswithacostbasisof$1.7billion.TheCompanyalsohad

$47millionofunrealizedlossesontrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutions,securities
117M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
backedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutionsandotherentities,andotherdebt
securitieshavingacostbasisof$157million.Basedonareviewofeachoftheremainingsecuritiesinthe
investmentsecuritiesportfolioatDecember31,2010,withtheexceptionoftheaforementionedsecurities

forwhichother-than-temporaryimpairmentlosseswererecognized,theCompanyconcludedthatit
expectedtorecovertheamortizedcostbasisofitsinvestment.AsofDecember31,2010,theCompany
doesnotintendtosellnorisitanticipatedthatitwouldberequiredtosellanyofitsimpaired

investmentsecurities.AtDecember31,2010,theCompanyhasnotidentifiedeventsorchangesin
circumstanceswhichmayhaveasignificantadverseeffectonthefairvalueofthe$413millionofcost
methodinvestmentsecurities.
AtDecember31,2010,investmentsecuritieswithacarryingvalueof$4,762,579,000,including
$3,500,392,000ofinvestmentsecuritiesavailableforsale,werepledgedtosecuredemandnotesissuedto
theU.S.Treasury,borrowingsfromvariousFHLBs,repurchaseagreements,governmentaldeposits,

interestrateswapagreementsandavailablelinesofcreditasdescribedinnote9.
InvestmentsecuritiespledgedbytheCompanytosecureobligationswherebythesecuredpartyis
permittedbycontractorcustomtosellorrepledgesuchcollateraltotaled$1,937,817,000atDecember31,

2010.ThepledgedsecuritiesincludedsecuritiesoftheU.S.Treasuryandfederalagenciesandmortgage-
backedsecurities.
4.Loansandleases
Totalloansandleasesoutstandingwerecomprisedofthefollowing:
20102009
December31
(Inthousands)
LoansCommercial,financial,etc....
......................................
$11,999,065$11,913,437
Realestate:
Residential...
.................................................
5,876,4135,401,932
Commercial..
.................................................
16,977,74716,345,601
Construction.
.................................................
4,332,6184,726,570
Consumer......................................................
11,483,56412,041,617
Totalloans...
.................................................
50,669,40750,429,157
LeasesCommercial..
.................................................
1,646,5351,877,300
Totalloansandleases........
......................................
52,315,94252,306,457
Less:unearneddiscount......
......................................
(325,560)(369,771)
Totalloansandleases,netofunearneddiscount...
......................
$51,990,382$51,936,686
One-to-fourfamilyresidentialmortgageloansheldforsalewere$341millionatDecember31,
2010and$530millionatDecember31,2009.Commercialmortgageloansheldforsalewere$204million
atDecember31,2010and$123millionatDecember31,2009.
AsofDecember31,2010,approximately$13millionofone-to-fourfamilyresidentialmortgage
loansservicedforothershadbeensoldwithcreditrecourse.AsofDecember31,2010,approximately
$1.6billionofcommercialmortgageloanbalancesservicedforothershadbeensoldwithrecoursein
conjunctionwiththeCompany™sparticipationintheFannieMaeDelegatedUnderwritingandServicing

(ﬁDUSﬂ)program.AtDecember31,2010,theCompanyestimatedthattherecourseobligationsdescribed
abovewerenotmaterialtotheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialposition.Therehavebeennomaterial
lossesincurredasaresultofthosecreditrecoursearrangements.
Inadditiontorecourseobligations,asdescribedinnote21,theCompanyiscontractually
obligatedtorepurchasepreviouslysoldresidentialrealestateloansthatdonotultimatelymeetinvestor
salecriteriarelatedtounderwritingproceduresorloandocumentation.Whenrequiredtodoso,the

Companymayreimburseloanpurchasersforlossesincurredormayrepurchasecertainloans.Charges
118M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
incurredforsuchobligation,whicharerecordedasareductionofmortgagebankingrevenues,were
$30million,$10millionand$4millionin2010,2009and2008,respectively.
Asummaryofcurrent,pastdueandnonaccrualloansasofDecember31,2010wasasfollows:
Current
30-89Days
PastDue
90DaysorMore
PastDueand
Accruing
Purchased
ImpairedNonaccrualTotal
(Inthousands)
Commercial,financial,
leasing,etc..
......
$13,088,887$96,087$16,647$2,250$186,739$13,390,610
Realestate:
Commercial.
......16,5
89,24089,90635,3388,275209,03116,931,790
Residentialbuilder
anddeveloper....891,76430,8059,76372,710346,4481,351,490
Othercommercial
construction.....
2,723,39936,42011,3232,098126,6412,899,881
Residential..
......
4,699,711229,641192,2769,320172,7295,303,677
ResidentialAlt-A....475,23642,674ŠŠ106,469624,379
Consumer:Homeequitylines
andloans.
......
6,472,56338,367Š2,36643,0556,556,351
Automobile..
......
2,608,23044,604ŠŠ31,8922,684,726
Other.
...........
2,190,35336,6894,246Š16,1902,247,478
Total....
...........
$49,739,383$645,193$269,593$97,019$1,239,194$51,990,382
Nonaccrualloanstotaled$1,331,702,000atDecember31,2009.Renegotiatedloans(loanswhich
hadbeenrenegotiatedatbelow-marketinterestratesorforwhichotherconcessionsweregranted,butare
accruinginterest)were$233,342,000and$212,548,000atDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.To

assistborrowerstheCompanymodifiedthetermsofselectloanssecuredbyresidentialrealestate,largely
fromtheCompany™sportfolioofAlt-Aloans.AtDecember31,2010,outstandingbalancesofthose
modifiedloanstotaledapproximately$308million.Ofthattotal,$117millionwereincludedin

nonaccrualloansatDecember31,2010.Theremaining$191millionofsuchmodifiedloanshave
demonstratedpaymentcapabilityconsistentwiththemodifiedtermsandaccordingly,wereclassifiedas
renegotiatedloansandwereaccruinginterestatthe2010year-end.Ifnonaccrualandrenegotiatedloans

hadbeenaccruinginterestattheiroriginallycontractedterms,interestincomeonsuchloanswouldhave
amountedto$90,351,000in2010and$99,618,000in2009.Theactualamountsincludedininterest
incomeduring2010and2009onsuchloanswere$40,139,000and$43,920,000,respectively.
BorrowingsbydirectorsandcertainofficersofM&Tanditsbankingsubsidiaries,andbyassociates
ofsuchpersons,exclusiveofloansaggregatinglessthan$120,000amountedto$105,540,000and
$106,845,000atDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.During2010,newborrowingsbysuchpersons

amountedto$2,711,000(includinganyborrowingsofnewdirectorsorofficersthatwereoutstandingat
thetimeoftheirelection)andrepaymentsandotherreductions(includingreductionsresultingfrom
retirements)were$4,016,000.
AtDecember31,2010,approximately$6.0billionofcommercialloansandleases,$6.7billionof
commercialmortgageloans,$3.0billionofone-to-fourfamilyresidentialmortgageloans,$4.4billionof
homeequityloansandlinesofcreditand$3.2billionofotherconsumerloanswerepledgedtosecure
outstandingborrowingsfromtheFHLBofNewYorkandavailablelinesofcreditasdescribedinnote9.
119M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
TheCompany™sloanandleaseportfolioincludescommercialleasefinancingreceivablesconsisting
ofdirectfinancingandleveragedleasesformachineryandequipment,railroadequipment,commercial
trucksandtrailers,andaircraft.Asummaryofleasefinancingreceivablesfollows:
20102009
December31
(Inthousands)
Commercialleases:
Directfinancings:
Leasepaymentsreceivable.
.......................................
$1,205,499$1,406,238
Estimatedresidualvalueofleasedassets..
............................
96,44199,968
Unearnedincome..
............................................
(181,771)(224,768)
Investmentindirectfinancings..
.................................
1,120,1691,281,438
Leveragedleases:
Leasepaymentsreceivable.
.......................................
164,818185,679
Estimatedresidualvalueofleasedassets..
............................
179,777185,415
Unearnedincome..
............................................
(63,154)(74,131)
Investmentinleveragedleases..
.................................
281,441296,963
Totalinvestmentinleases
............................................
$1,401,610$1,578,401
Deferredtaxespayablearisingfromleveragedleases..
.......................$
202,566$212,910
IncludedwithintheestimatedresidualvalueofleasedassetsatDecember31,2010and2009were
$53millionand$56million,respectively,inresidualvalueassociatedwithdirectfinancingleasesthatare
guaranteedbythelessees.TheCompanyisindemnifiedfromlossbyAIBonaportionofleveragedleases
obtainedintheacquisitionofaformersubsidiaryofAIBonApril1,2003.Amountsintheleveraged

leasesectionofthetablesubjecttosuchindemnificationincludedleasepaymentsreceivableof$5million

and$7millionasofDecember31,2010and2009,respectively,estimatedresidualvalueofleasedassets
of$26millionand$31millionasofDecember31,2010and2009,respectively,andunearnedincomeof
$4millionand$6millionasofDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.
AtDecember31,2010,theminimumfutureleasepaymentstobereceivedfromleasefinancings
wereasfollows:
Total
(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2011....................................................................$
316,5452012....................................................................
287,5612013....................................................................
186,5822014....................................................................
126,1862015....................................................................
86,833Lateryears....
...........................................................
366,610$1,370,317120M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
5.Allowanceforcreditlosses
ChangesintheallowanceforcreditlossesfortheyearendedDecember31,2010wereasfollows:
Commercial,Financial,Leasing,etc.CommercialResidentialConsumerUnallocatedTotal
RealEstate
(Inthousands)
Beginningbalance.
.........
$219,170$359,770$91,582$137,124$70,376$878,022
Provisionforcreditlosses
....58,438159,02352,96097,5736368,000
Consolidationofloan
securitizationtrusts...
....ŠŠ
2,752ŠŠ2,752
Netcharge-offs
Charge-offs.............
(91,650)(124,087)(71,016)(125,593)Š(412,346)
Recoveries
..............
26,6215,85610,07323,963Š66,513
Netcharge-offs...
.........
(65,029)(118,231)(60,943)(101,630)Š(345,833)
Endingbalance...
.........
$212,579$400,562$86,351$133,067$70,382$902,941
Despitetheaboveallocation,theallowanceforcreditlossesisgeneralinnatureandisavailableto
absorblossesfromanyloanorleasetype.Changesintheallowanceforcreditlossesfor2009and2008
wereasfollows:
20092008
YearEndedDecember31
(Inthousands)
Beginningbalance.....
..............................................$
787,904$759,439
Provisionforcreditlosses
.............................................
604,000412,000
Allowancerelatedtoloanssoldorsecuritized..
.............................Š
(525)Netcharge-offs
Charge-offs........
..............................................
(556,462)(420,655)
Recoveries
.......................................................
42,58037,645
Netcharge-offs.......
..............................................
(513,882)(383,010)
Endingbalance.......
..............................................$
878,022$787,904
Inascertainingtheadequacyoftheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanyestimateslosses
attributabletospecifictroubledcreditsidentifiedthroughbothnormalanddetailedorintensifiedcredit
reviewprocessesandalsoestimateslossesinherentinotherloansandleasesonacollectivebasis.For
purposesofdeterminingtheleveloftheallowanceforcreditlosses,theCompanyevaluatesitsloanand

leaseportfoliobyloantype.TheamountsoflosscomponentsintheCompany™sloanandleaseportfolios
aredeterminedthroughaloanbyloananalysisoflargerbalancecommercialandcommercialrealestate
loansthatareinnonaccrualstatusandbyapplyinglossfactorstogroupsofloanbalancesbasedonloan

typeandmanagement™sclassificationofsuchloansundertheCompany™sloangradingsystem.Measure-
mentofthespecificlosscomponentsistypicallybasedonexpectedfuturecashflows,collateralvalues
andotherfactorsthatmayimpacttheborrower™sabilitytopay.Indeterminingtheallowanceforcredit

lossestheCompanyutilizesanextensiveloangradingsystemwhichisappliedtoallcommercialand
commercialrealestatecredits.Loanofficersareresponsibleforcontinuallyassigninggradestoloans
basedonstandardsoutlinedintheCompany™sCreditPolicy.Internalloangradesarealsoextensively

monitoredbytheCompany™sloanreviewdepartmenttoensureconsistencyandstrictadherencetothe
prescribedstandards.LoangradesareassignedlosscomponentfactorsthatreflecttheCompany™sloss
estimateforeachgroupofloansandleases.Factorsconsideredinassigningloangradesandloss

componentfactorsincludeborrower-specificinformationrelatedtoexpectedfuturecashflowsand
operatingresults,collateralvalues,financialcondition,paymentstatus,andotherinformation;levelsof
andtrendsinportfoliocharge-offsandrecoveries;levelsofandtrendsinportfoliodelinquenciesand

impairedloans;changesintheriskprofileofspecificportfolios;trendsinvolumeandtermsofloans;
121M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
effectsofchangesincreditconcentrations;andobservedtrendsandpracticesinthebankingindustry.
Modifiedloans,includingsmallerbalancehomogenousloans,thatareconsideredtobetroubleddebt
restructuringsareevaluatedforimpairmentgivingconsiderationtotheimpactofthemodifiedloan

termsonthepresentvalueoftheloan™sexpectedcashflows.Thefollowingtableprovidesinformation
withrespecttoimpairedloansandleasesasofandfortheyearendedDecember31,2010.
Recorded
Investment
Unpaid
PrincipalBalanceRelatedAllowance
Average
Recorded
InvestmentTotalCashBasis
InterestIncome
Recognized
December31,2010
YearEndedDecember31,2010
(Inthousands)
Withanallowancerecorded:
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc..
.........$
121,744$170,888$40,909
Realestate:
Commercial........................
110,975140,01517,393
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
.........
263,545295,03178,597
Othercommercialconstruction..
.........
80,93485,43222,067
Residential.
........................
73,00685,2793,375
ResidentialAlt-A
....................
180,665191,44536,000
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans
.............
11,79913,3782,227
Automobile
........................
58,85858,85812,597
Other....
........................
2,9782,978768
904,5041,043,304213,933
Withnorelatedallowancerecorded:
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc..
.........
65,82786,332Š
Realestate:
Commercial........................
101,939116,316Š
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
.........
100,799124,383Š
Othercommercialconstruction..
.........
46,65650,496Š
Residential.
........................
5,0357,723Š
ResidentialAlt-A
....................
28,96747,879Š
349,223433,129Š
Total:
Commercial,financial,leasing,etc..
.........
187,571257,22040,909$266,685$5,027$5,003
Realestate:
Commercial........................
212,914256,33117,393233,4291,9901,748
Residentialbuilderanddeveloper
.........
364,344419,41478,597322,2491,723753
Othercommercialconstruction..
.........
127,590135,92822,06764,436462449
Residential.
........................
78,04193,0023,37562,1043,0791,793
ResidentialAlt-A
....................
209,632239,32436,000220,5898,3971,758
Consumer:Homeequitylinesandloans
.............
11,79913,3782,22711,807790202
Automobile
........................
58,85858,85812,59754,2213,6841,233
Other....
........................
2,9782,9787683,16524348
Total.
...............................$
1,253,727$1,476,433$213,933$1,238,685$25,395$12,987
TherecordedinvestmentinloansconsideredimpairedforpurposesofapplyingGAAPwas
$1,311,616,000atDecember31,2009.Therecordedinvestmentinloansconsideredimpairedforwhich
therewasarelatedvaluationallowanceforimpairmentincludedintheallowanceforcreditlossesand

theamountofsuchimpairmentallowancewere$1,077,626,000and$244,137,000,respectively,at
December31,2009.Therecordedinvestmentinloansconsideredimpairedforwhichtherewasno
relatedvaluationallowanceforimpairmentwas$233,990,000atDecember31,2009.Theaveragerecorded

investmentinimpairedloansduring2009and2008was$986,164,000and$371,298,000,respectively.
Interestincomerecognizedonimpairedloanstotaled$10,224,000and$7,222,000fortheyearsended
December31,2009and2008,respectively.
122M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
ThefollowingtablesummarizestheloangradesappliedtotheCompany™scommercialand
commercialrealestateloansasofDecember31,2010.
Commercial,Financial,Leasing,etcCommercial
ResidentialBuilderand
DeveloperOtherCommercialConstruction
RealEstate
(Inthousands)
Pass.....................................
$12,371,138$15,831,104$693,110$2,253,589
Criticizedaccrual
...........................
832,733891,655311,932519,651
Criticizednonaccrual.
.......................
186,739209,031346,448126,641
Total........
............................
$13,390,610$16,931,790$1,351,490$2,899,881
Inassessingtheadequacyoftheallowanceforcreditlosses,residentialrealestateloansand
consumerloansaregenerallyevaluatedcollectivelyafterconsideringsuchfactorsaspaymentperformance

(seenote4),collateralvaluesandtrendsrelatedthereto.However,residentialrealestateloansand

outstandingbalancesofhomeequityloansandlinesofcreditthataremorethan150dayspastdueare

generallyevaluatedforcollectibilityonaloan-by-loanbasisgivingconsiderationtoestimatedcollateral

values.TheCompanyalsomeasuresadditionallossesforpurchasedimpairedloanswhenitisprobable
thattheCompanywillbeunabletocollectallcashflowsexpectedatacquisitionplusadditionalcash

flowsexpectedtobecollectedarisingfromchangesinestimatesafteracquisition.Inaddition,the

Companyalsoprovidesaninherentunallocatedportionoftheallowancethatisintendedtorecognize

probablelossesthatarenototherwiseidentifiableandincludesmanagement™ssubjectivedeterminationof

amountsnecessarytoprovideforthepossibleuseofimpreciseestimatesindeterminingtheallocated
portionoftheallowance.
AtDecember31,2010theallocationoftheallowanceforcreditlossessummarizedonthebasisof
theCompany™simpairmentmethodologywasasfollows:
Commercial,Financial,Leasing,etc.CommercialResidentialConsumerTotal
RealEstate
(Inthousands)
Individuallyevaluatedforimpairment.
.....$
40,459$114,082$39,000$15,492$209,033
Collectivelyevaluatedforimpairment..
.....171,670282,50546,976117,475618,626
Purchasedimpaired
....................450
3,9753751004,900
Allocated.
...........................
$212,579$400,562$86,351$133,067$832,559
Unallocated
..........................
70,382Total....
...........................$
902,941TherecordedinvestmentinloansandleasessummarizedonthebasisoftheCompany™s
impairmentmethodologyasofDecember31,2010wasasfollows:
Commercial,Financial,Leasing,etc.CommercialResidentialConsumerTotal
RealEstate
(Inthousands)
Individuallyevaluatedfor
impairment.................$
186,739$682,120$286,612$72,082$1,227,553
Collectivelyevaluatedfor
impairment.................
13,201,62120,417,9585,632,12411,414,10750,665,810
Purchasedimpaired
............
2,25083,0839,3202,36697,019
Total..
......................
$13,390,610$21,183,161$5,928,056$11,488,555$51,990,382
123M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
6.Premisesandequipment
Thedetailofpremisesandequipmentwasasfollows:
20102009
December31
(Inthousands)
Land...............................................................$
64,728$63,961
BuildingsŠowned....
...............................................
280,288271,181
BuildingsŠcapitalleases
...............................................
1,1311,131
Leaseholdimprovements.
...............................................
172,638165,110
FurnitureandequipmentŠowned...
....................................
366,227345,421
FurnitureandequipmentŠcapitalleases...............
....................
1,387Š
886,399846,804
Less:accumulateddepreciationandamortization
Ownedassets.
.....................................................
449,571410,218
Capitalleases.
.....................................................991741
450,562410,959
Premisesandequipment,net..
..........................................
$435,837$435,845
Netleaseexpenseforalloperatingleasestotaled$94,646,000in2010,$89,030,000in2009and
$73,886,000in2008.Minimumleasepaymentsundernoncancelableoperatingleasesarepresentedin

note21.Minimumleasepaymentsrequiredundercapitalleasesarenotmaterial.
7.Capitalizedservicingassets
Changesincapitalizedservicingassetswereasfollows:
ForYearEndedDecember31,201020092008201020092008
ResidentialMortgageLoans
Small-BalanceCommercialMortgageLoans
(Inthousands)
Beginningbalance
...............
$101,155$106,979$118,763$40,251$58,044$56,956
Originations....
...............
27,43031,03417,765ŠŠŠ
Purchases.
....................593972
3,322ŠŠ20,974
Assumedinloansecuritizations
(note19)
....................Š788
8,455ŠŠŠ
Consolidationofloansecuritization
trusts(note19)
...............
(1,843)ŠŠŠŠŠ
Amortization...
...............
(35,269)(38,618)(41,326)(14,054)(17,793)(19,886)
92,066101,155106,97926,19740,25158,044
Valuationallowance
.............Š
(50)(22,000)ŠŠŠ
Endingbalance,net
..............$
92,066$101,105$84,979$26,197$40,251$58,044
124M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
ForYearEndedDecember31,201020092008201020092008
CommercialMortgageLoansTotal
(Inthousands)
Beginningbalance
.................
$32,896$26,336$20,240$174,302$191,359$195,959
Originations.....................
16,97612,41710,60644,40643,45128,371
Purchases
.......................ŠŠŠ593972
24,296Assumedinloansecuritizations
(note19)
......................ŠŠŠŠ788
8,455Consolidationofloansecuritization
trusts(note19)
.................ŠŠŠ
(1,843)ŠŠ
Amortization
.....................
(7,259)(5,857)(4,510)(56,582)(62,268)(65,722)
42,61332,89626,336160,876174,302191,359
Valuationallowance.....
...........ŠŠŠŠ
(50)(22,000)
Endingbalance,net.....
...........
$42,613$32,896$26,336$160,876$174,252$169,359
Residentialmortgageloansservicedforotherswere$15.9billionateachofDecember31,2010
andDecember31,2009and$15.4billionatDecember31,2008.Small-balancecommercialmortgage
loansservicedforotherswere$5.2billion,$5.5billionand$5.9billionatDecember31,2010,2009and
2008,respectively.Commercialmortgageloansservicedforotherswere$8.1billion,$7.1billionand

$6.4billionatDecember31,2010,2009and2008,respectively.
During2010and2009,$50,000and$21,950,000,respectively,ofthevaluationallowancefor
capitalizedresidentialmortgageloanservicingassetswasreversedbecauseofincreasesinthemarket
valueofcertainstrataofservicingassetsrelativetotheamortizedcostbasisoftheservicingassetsinsuch

strata.During2008,aprovisionforimpairmentof$16,000,000wasaddedtothevaluationallowancefor

capitalizedresidentialmortgageloanservicingassetsbecausethecarryingvalueofcertainstrataof
capitalizedservicingassetsexceededestimatedfairvalue.Theestimatedfairvalueofcapitalizedresiden-
tialmortgageloanservicingassetswasapproximately$162millionatDecember31,2010and$158million

atDecember31,2009.Thefairvalueofcapitalizedresidentialmortgageloanservicingassetswas

estimatedusingweighted-averagediscountratesof13.2%and13.3%atDecember31,2010and2009,
respectively,andcontemporaneousprepaymentassumptionsthatvarybyloantype.AtDecember31,
2010and2009,thediscountraterepresentedaweighted-averageoption-adjustedspread(ﬁOASﬂ)of

748basispoints(hundredthsofonepercent)and775basispoints,respectively,overmarketimplied

forwardLondonInterbankOfferedRates.Theestimatedfairvalueofcapitalizedsmall-balancecommer-
cialmortgageloanservicingassetswasapproximately$58millionatDecember31,2010and$64million
atDecember31,2009.Thefairvalueofcapitalizedsmall-balancecommercialloanservicingassetswas

estimatedusingweighted-averagediscountratesof19.7%and20.3%atDecember31,2010and2009,

respectively,andcontemporaneousprepaymentassumptionsthatvarybyloantype.AtDecember31,
2010and2009,thediscountraterepresentedaweighted-averageOASof1,778basispointsand1,779basis
points,respectively,overmarketimpliedforwardLondonInterbankOfferedRates.Theestimatedfair

valueofcapitalizedresidentialandsmall-balancecommercialmortgageloanservicingrightsmayvary

significantlyinsubsequentperiodsduetochanginginterestratesandtheeffectthereofonprepayment
speeds.Theestimatedfairvalueofcapitalizedcommercialmortgageloanservicingassetswasapprox-
imately$50millionand$39millionatDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.An18%discountrate

wasusedtoestimatethefairvalueofcapitalizedcommercialmortgageloanservicingrightsat

December31,2010and2009withnoprepaymentassumptionsbecause,ingeneral,theservicing
agreementsallowtheCompanytoshareincustomerloanprepaymentfeesandtherebyrecoverthe
remainingcarryingvalueofthecapitalizedservicingrightsassociatedwithsuchloan.TheCompany™s

abilitytorealizethecarryingvalueofcapitalizedcommercialmortgageservicingrightsismoredependent
ontheborrowers™abilitiestorepaytheunderlyingloansthanonprepaymentsorchangesininterest
rates.Thekeyeconomicassumptionsusedtodeterminethefairvalueofcapitalizedservicingrightsat
December31,2010andthesensitivityofsuchvaluetochangesinthoseassumptionsaresummarizedin
125M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
thetablethatfollows.Thosecalculatedsensitivitiesarehypotheticalandactualchangesinthefairvalue
ofcapitalizedservicingrightsmaydiffersignificantlyfromtheamountspresentedherein.Theeffectofa
variationinaparticularassumptiononthefairvalueoftheservicingrightsiscalculatedwithout

changinganyotherassumption.Inreality,changesinonefactormayresultinchangesinanotherwhich
maymagnifyorcounteractthesensitivities.Thechangesinassumptionsarepresumedtobe
instantaneous.ResidentialSmall-BalanceCommercialCommercial
Weighted-averageprepaymentspeeds
.....................
13.60%7.98%
Impactonfairvalueof10%adversechange...
...........$
(8,017,000)$(2,358,000)
Impactonfairvalueof20%adversechange...
...........
(15,254,000)(4,521,000)
Weighted-averageOAS.....
...........................
7.48%17.78%
Impactonfairvalueof10%adversechange...
...........$
(1,188,000)$(1,913,000)
Impactonfairvalueof20%adversechange...
...........
(4,047,000)(3,742,000)
Weighted-averagediscountrate
..........................
18.00%Impactonfairvalueof10%adversechange...
...........
$(2,245,000)Impactonfairvalueof20%adversechange...
...........
(4,324,000)8.Goodwillandotherintangibleassets
InaccordancewithGAAP,theCompanydoesnotamortizegoodwill,however,coredepositandother
intangibleassetsareamortizedovertheestimatedlifeofeachrespectiveasset.Totalamortizingintangible
assetswerecomprisedofthefollowing:
GrossCarrying
AmountAccumulated
Amortization
NetCarrying
Amount(Inthousands)
December31,2010
Coredeposit...
....................................
$701,000$576,986$124,014
Other...
.........................................
119,968118,0651,903
Total....
.........................................
$820,968$695,051$125,917
December31,2009
Coredeposit...
....................................
$701,000$524,358$176,642
Other...
.........................................
118,366112,5905,776
Total....
.........................................
$819,366$636,948$182,418
Amortizationofcoredepositandotherintangibleassetswasgenerallycomputedusingaccelerated
methodsoveroriginalamortizationperiodsoffivetotenyears.Theweighted-averageoriginalamortiza-
tionperiodwasapproximatelyeightyears.Theremainingweighted-averageamortizationperiodasof
December31,2010wasapproximatelyfiveyears.Amortizationexpenseforcoredepositandother

intangibleassetswas$58,103,000,$64,255,000and$66,646,000fortheyearsendedDecember31,2010,
126M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
2009and2008,respectively.Estimatedamortizationexpenseinfutureyearsforsuchintangibleassetsis
asfollows:
(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2011....................................................................$
42,1392012....................................................................
32,6682013....................................................................
24,0722014....................................................................
16,1092015....................................................................
8,346Lateryears....
...........................................................
2,583$125,917InaccordancewithGAAP,theCompanycompletedannualgoodwillimpairmenttestsasof
October1,2010,2009and2008.Forpurposesoftestingforimpairment,theCompanyassignedall
recordedgoodwilltothereportingunitsoriginallyintendedtobenefitfrompastbusinesscombinations,

whichhashistoricallybeentheCompany™scorerelationshipbusinessreportingunits.Goodwillwas
generallyassignedbasedontheimpliedfairvalueoftheacquiredgoodwillapplicabletothebenefited
reportingunitsatthetimeofeachrespectiveacquisition.Theimpliedfairvalueofthegoodwillwas

determinedasthedifferencebetweentheestimatedincrementaloverallfairvalueofthereportingunit
andtheestimatedfairvalueofthenetassetsassignedtothereportingunitasofeachrespective
acquisitiondate.Totestforgoodwillimpairmentateachevaluationdate,theCompanycomparedthe

estimatedfairvalueofeachofitsreportingunitstotheirrespectivecarryingamountsandcertainother
assetsandliabilitiesassignedtothereportingunit,includinggoodwillandcoredepositandother
intangibleassets.Themethodologiesusedtoestimatefairvaluesofreportingunitsasoftheacquisition

datesandasoftheevaluationdatesweresimilar.FortheCompany™scorecustomerrelationshipbusiness
reportingunits,fairvaluewasestimatedasthepresentvalueoftheexpectedfuturecashflowsofthe
reportingunit.Basedontheresultsofthegoodwillimpairmenttests,theCompanyconcludedthatthe

amountofrecordedgoodwillwasnotimpairedattherespectivetestingdates.
AsummaryofgoodwillassignedtoeachoftheCompany™sreportablesegmentsasofDecember31,
2010and2009forpurposesoftestingforimpairmentisasfollows.
(Inthousands)
BusinessBanking.
...........................................................$
748,907CommercialBanking....
.....................................................
907,524CommercialRealEstate..
.....................................................
349,197DiscretionaryPortfolio...
.....................................................Š
ResidentialMortgageBanking...
................................................Š
RetailBanking...
...........................................................
1,144,404AllOther..
................................................................
374,593Total
......................................................................
$3,524,625127M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
9.Borrowings
Theamountsandinterestratesofshort-termborrowingswereasfollows:
FederalFunds
PurchasedandRepurchaseAgreementsOtherShort-term
BorrowingsTotal
(Dollarsinthousands)
AtDecember31,2010
Amountoutstanding..
................................$
866,555$80,877$947,432
Weighted-averageinterestrate..
.........................0
.19%0.20%0.19%
FortheyearendedDecember31,2010
Highestamountatamonth-end
.........................
$2,612,727$236,842
Daily-averageamountoutstanding...
.....................
1,749,525104,508$1,854,033
Weighted-averageinterestrate..
.........................
0.15%0.33%0.16%
AtDecember31,2009
Amountoutstanding..
................................
$2,211,692$230,890$2,442,582
Weighted-averageinterestrate..
.........................
0.04%0.66%0.10%
FortheyearendedDecember31,2009
Highestamountatamonth-end
.........................
$2,491,573$2,049,727
Daily-averageamountoutstanding...
.....................
1,885,4641,025,601$2,911,065
Weighted-averageinterestrate..
.........................
0.15%0.42%0.24%
AtDecember31,2008
Amountoutstanding..
................................$
970,529$2,039,206$3,009,735
Weighted-averageinterestrate..
.........................
0.10%0.36%0.27%
FortheyearendedDecember31,2008
Highestamountatamonth-end
.........................
$5,291,846$2,039,206
Daily-averageamountoutstanding...
.....................
4,652,3881,433,734$6,086,122
Weighted-averageinterestrate..
.........................
2.15%2.97%2.34%
Short-termborrowingshaveastatedmaturityofoneyearorlessatthedatetheCompanyentered
intotheobligation.Ingeneral,federalfundspurchasedandshort-termrepurchaseagreementsoutstand-

ingatDecember31,2010maturedonthenextbusinessdayfollowingyear-end.Othershort-term
borrowingsincluded$28millionand$152millionatDecember31,2010and2009,respectively,of
borrowingsfromtheFHLBofAtlanta.Theremainingshort-termborrowingswerefromtheU.S.Treasury

andothers.
AtDecember31,2010,theCompanyhadlinesofcreditunderformalagreementsasfollows:
M&TM&TBank
M&TBank,N.A.
(Inthousands)
Outstandingborrowings...
..................................$Š$
2,897,133$Š
Unused....
.............................................
30,00012,914,54998,158
M&ThasarevolvingcreditagreementwithanunaffiliatedcommercialbankwherebyM&Tmay
borrowupto$30millionatitsdiscretionthroughDecember2,2011.AtDecember31,2010,M&TBank
hadborrowingfacilitiesavailablewiththeFHLBswherebyM&TBankcouldborrowuptoapproximately
$6.0billion.Additionally,M&TBankandM&TBank,NationalAssociation(ﬁM&TBank,N.A.ﬂ),a

whollyownedsubsidiaryofM&T,hadavailablelinesofcreditwiththeFederalReserveBankofNewYork

totalingapproximately$9.9billionatDecember31,2010.M&TBankandM&TBank,N.A.arerequired
topledgeloansandinvestmentsecuritiesascollateralfortheseborrowingfacilities.
128M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
Long-termborrowingswereasfollows:
20102009
December31,
(Inthousands)
SeniornotesofM&TŠ5.375%due2012.............
..................$
299,971$299,950
AdvancesfromFHLB:
Variablerates
...................................................
2,525,2684,405,925
Fixedrates.
....................................................
347,161818,562
Agreementstorepurchasesecurities..................
..................
1,625,0011,625,001
SubordinatednotesofM&TBank:
8%due2010
...................................................Š
140,8543.85%due2013,variableratecommencedin2008.....
..................
400,000400,000
6.625%due2017.
...............................................
425,969404,428
9.5%due2018...
...............................................
50,00050,000
5.585%due2020,variableratecommencing2015.....
..................
372,668366,883
5.629%due2021,variableratecommencing2016.....
..................
568,196545,194
Juniorsubordinateddebenturesassociatedwithpreferredcapitalsecurities:
Fixedrates:
M&TCapitalTrustIŠ8.234%,due2027.........
..................
154,640154,640
M&TCapitalTrustIIŠ8.277%,due2027........
..................
103,093103,093
M&TCapitalTrustIIIŠ9.25%,due2027.........
..................
67,08467,409
BSBCapitalTrustIŠ8.125%,due2028..........
..................
15,51915,496
ProvidentTrustIŠ8.29%,due2028.............
..................
24,25624,061
SouthernFinancialStatutoryTrustIŠ10.60%,due2030.
..............
6,4556,439
M&TCapitalTrustIVŠ8.50%,due2068.........
..................
350,010350,010
Variablerates:
FirstMarylandCapitalIŠdue2027.............
..................
143,025142,487
FirstMarylandCapitalIIŠdue2027............
..................
143,975143,312
AllfirstAssetTrustŠdue2029.................
..................
95,62395,477
BSBCapitalTrustIIIŠdue2033...............
..................
15,46415,464
ProvidentTrustIIIŠdue2033.................
..................
50,82350,430
SouthernFinancialCapitalTrustIIIŠdue2033....
..................
7,5667,513
Other..
........................................................
48,3847,388
$7,840,151$10,240,016
Long-termvariablerateadvancesfromtheFHLBhadcontractualinterestratesthatrangedfrom
0.24%to2.00%atDecember31,2010andfrom0%to3.53%atDecember31,2009.Theweighted-

averagecontractualinterestrateswere0.32%atDecember31,2010and0.35%atDecember31,2009.
Long-termfixedrateadvancesfromtheFHLBhadcontractualinterestratesrangingfrom3.48%to
7.32%.Theweighted-averagecontractualinterestratespayablewere4.33%atDecember31,2010and

4.89%atDecember31,2009.AdvancesfromtheFHLBmatureatvariousdatesthrough2035andare
securedbyresidentialrealestateloans,commercialrealestateloansandinvestmentsecurities.
Long-termagreementstorepurchasesecuritieshadcontractualinterestratesthatrangedfrom
3.69%to5.14%.Theweighted-averagecontractualinterestrateswere4.16%atDecember31,2010and
4.21%atDecember31,2009.TheagreementsoutstandingatDecember31,2010reflectvarious
repurchasedatesthrough2017,however,thecontractualmaturitiesoftheunderlyinginvestment

securitiesextendbeyondsuchrepurchasedates.
129M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
ThesubordinatednotesofM&TBankareunsecuredandaresubordinatetotheclaimsof
depositorsandothercreditorsofM&TBank.ThesubordinatednotesofM&TBankdue2013hadafixed

rateofinterestof3.85%throughMarch2008andbearafloatingrateofinterestthereafteruntilmaturity
inApril2013,atarateequaltothethree-monthLondonInterbankOfferedRate(ﬁLIBORﬂ)plus1.50%.
Thatvariableratewas1.79%ateachofDecember31,2010and2009.
Thefixedandfloatingratejuniorsubordinateddeferrableinterestdebentures(ﬁJuniorSubordi-
natedDebenturesﬂ)areheldbyvarioustrustsandwereissuedinconnectionwiththeissuancebythose

trustsofpreferredcapitalsecurities(ﬁCapitalSecuritiesﬂ)andcommonsecurities(ﬁCommonSecuritiesﬂ).
TheproceedsfromtheissuancesoftheCapitalSecuritiesandtheCommonSecuritieswereusedbythe
truststopurchasetheJuniorSubordinatedDebentures.TheCommonSecuritiesofeachofthosetrusts

arewhollyownedbyM&Tandaretheonlyclassofeachtrust™ssecuritiespossessinggeneralvoting
powers.TheCapitalSecuritiesrepresentpreferredundividedinterestsintheassetsofthecorresponding
trust.UndertheFederalReserveBoard™scurrentrisk-basedcapitalguidelines,theCapitalSecuritiesare

includableinM&T™sTier1capital.However,theDodd-FrankWallStreetReformandConsumer
ProtectionActthatwassignedintolawonJuly21,2010providesforathree-yearphase-inrelatedtothe
exclusionoftrustpreferredcapitalsecuritiesfromTier1capitalforlargefinancialinstitutions,including

M&T.Thatphase-inperiodbeginsonJanuary1,2013.ThevariablerateJuniorSubordinatedDebentures
payinterestquarterlyatratesthatareindexedtothethree-monthLIBOR.Thoseratesrangedfrom
1.14%to3.64%atDecember31,2010andfrom1.13%to3.63%atDecember31,2009.Theweighted-

averagevariableratespayableonthoseJuniorSubordinatedDebentureswere1.72%and1.70%at
December31,2010and2009,respectively.
HoldersoftheCapitalSecuritiesreceivepreferentialcumulativecashdistributionsunlessM&T
exercisesitsrighttoextendthepaymentofinterestontheJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesasallowedby
thetermsofeachsuchdebenture,inwhichcasepaymentofdistributionsontherespectiveCapital

Securitieswillbedeferredforcomparableperiods.Duringanextendedinterestperiod,M&Tmaynotpay
dividendsordistributionson,orrepurchase,redeemoracquireanysharesofitscapitalstock.Inthe
eventofanextendedinterestperiodexceedingtwentyquarterlyperiodsfor$350millionofJunior

SubordinatedDebenturesdueJanuary31,2068,M&Tmustfundthepaymentofaccruedandunpaid
interestthroughanalternativepaymentmechanism,whichrequiresM&Ttoissuecommonstock,non-
cumulativeperpetualpreferredstockorwarrantstopurchasecommonstockuntilM&Thasraisedan

amountofeligibleproceedsatleastequaltotheaggregateamountofaccruedandunpaiddeferred
interestontheJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesdueJanuary31,2068.Ingeneral,theagreements
governingtheCapitalSecurities,intheaggregate,provideafull,irrevocableandunconditionalguarantee

byM&Tofthepaymentofdistributionson,theredemptionof,andanyliquidationdistributionwith

respecttotheCapitalSecurities.TheobligationsundersuchguaranteeandtheCapitalSecuritiesare
subordinateandjuniorinrightofpaymenttoallseniorindebtednessofM&T.
TheCapitalSecuritieswillremainoutstandinguntiltheJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesare
repaidatmaturity,areredeemedpriortomaturityoraredistributedinliquidationtotheTrusts.The

CapitalSecuritiesaremandatorilyredeemableinwhole,butnotinpart,uponrepaymentatthestated

maturitydates(rangingfrom2027to2068)oftheJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesortheearlier
redemptionoftheJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesinwholeupontheoccurrenceofoneormoreevents
setforthintheindenturesrelatingtotheCapitalSecurities,andinwholeorinpartatanytimeafteran

optionalredemptionpriortocontractualmaturitycontemporaneouslywiththeoptionalredemptionof
therelatedJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesinwholeorinpart,subjecttopossibleregulatoryapproval.
Inconnectionwiththeissuanceof8.50%EnhancedTrustPreferredSecuritiesassociatedwith$350million

ofJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesmaturingin2068,M&Tenteredintoareplacementcapitalcovenant
thatprovidesthatneitherM&Tnoranyofitssubsidiarieswillrepay,redeemorpurchaseanyofthe
JuniorSubordinatedDebenturesdueJanuary31,2068orthe8.50%EnhancedTrustPreferredSecurities

priortoJanuary31,2048,withcertainlimitedexceptions,excepttotheextentthat,duringthe180days
priortothedateofthatrepayment,redemptionorpurchase,M&Tanditssubsidiarieshavereceived
proceedsfromthesaleofqualifyingsecuritiesthat(i)haveequity-likecharacteristicsthatarethesame

as,ormoreequity-likethan,theapplicablecharacteristicsofthe8.50%EnhancedTrustPreferred
SecuritiesortheJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesdueJanuary31,2068,asapplicable,atthetimeof
130M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
repayment,redemptionorpurchase,and(ii)M&ThasobtainedthepriorapprovaloftheFederalReserve
Board,ifrequired.
Long-termborrowingsatDecember31,2010matureasfollows:
(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2011....................................................................
$1,886,8602012....................................................................
1,560,6162013....................................................................
392,8702014....................................................................
7,5702015....................................................................Š
Lateryears....
...........................................................
3,992,235$7,840,15110.Shareholders™equity
M&Tisauthorizedtoissue1,000,000sharesofpreferredstockwitha$1.00parvaluepershare.Preferred

sharesoutstandingrankseniortocommonsharesbothastodividendsandliquidationpreference,but
havenogeneralvotingrights.
IssuedandoutstandingpreferredstockofM&Tispresentedbelow:
SharesIssuedand
OutstandingCarrying
Value
December31,2010
Carrying
Value
December31,2009
(Dollarsinthousands)
SeriesA(a)
FixedRateCumulativePerpetualPreferredStock,
SeriesA,$1,000liquidationpreference

pershare,600,000sharesauthorized
................
600,000$578,630$572,580
SeriesB(b)

SeriesBMandatoryConvertibleNon-cumulative
PreferredStock,$1,000liquidationpreference

pershare,26,500sharesauthorized
................
26,50026,50026,500
SeriesC(a)(c)

FixedRateCumulativePerpetualPreferredStock,
SeriesC,$1,000liquidationpreference

pershare,151,500sharesauthorized
................
151,500135,527131,155
(a)ShareswereissuedaspartoftheTroubledAssetReliefProgramŠCapitalPurchaseProgramoftheU.S.
DepartmentofTreasury(ﬁU.S.Treasuryﬂ).Cashproceedswereallocatedbetweenthepreferredstockanda

ten-yearwarranttopurchaseM&Tcommonstock(SeriesAŠ1,218,522commonsharesat$73.86pershare,
SeriesCŠ407,542commonsharesat$55.76pershare).Dividends,ifdeclared,willaccrueandbepaid
quarterlyatarateof5%peryearforthefirstfiveyearsfollowingtheoriginal2008issuancedatesandthere-

afteratarateof9%peryear.TheagreementwiththeU.S.Treasurycontainslimitationsoncertainactions
ofM&T,includingthepaymentofquarterlycashdividendsonM&T™scommonstockinexcessof$.70per
share,therepurchaseofitscommonstockduringthefirstthreeyearsoftheagreement,andtheamountand

natureofcompensationarrangementsforcertainoftheCompany™sofficers.
(b)ShareswereassumedintheProvidentacquisitionandanewSeriesBPreferredStockwasdesignated.Inthe
aggregate,thesharesofSeriesBPreferredStockwillautomaticallyconvertinto433,148sharesofM&Tcom-
monstockonApril1,2011,butshareholdersmayelecttoconverttheirpreferredsharesatanytimepriorto

thatdate.Dividends,ifdeclared,arepayablequarterlyinarrearsatarateof10%peryear.
(c)ShareswereassumedintheProvidentacquisitionandanewSeriesCPreferredStockwasdesignated.
131M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
11.Stock-basedcompensationplans
Stock-basedcompensationexpensewas$54millionineachof2010and2009and$50millionin2008.
TheCompanyrecognizedincometaxbenefitsrelatedtostock-basedcompensationof$17millionineach

of2010and2009and$11millionin2008.
TheCompany™sequityincentivecompensationplanallowsfortheissuanceofvariousformsof
stock-basedcompensation,includingstockoptions,restrictedstock,restrictedstockunitsandperfor-

mance-basedawards.ThroughDecember31,2010,onlystock-basedcompensationawards,including
stockoptions,restrictedstockandrestrictedstockunits,thatvestwiththepassageoftimeasserviceis
providedhavebeenissued.AtDecember31,2010and2009,respectively,therewere5,959,828and

6,134,264sharesavailableforfuturegrantundertheCompany™sequityincentivecompensationplan.
Restrictedstockawards
Restrictedstockawardsarecomprisedofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunits.Restrictedstock
awardsgenerallyvestoverfouryears.Unrecognizedcompensationexpenseassociatedwithrestricted
stockwas$23millionasofDecember31,2010andisexpectedtoberecognizedoveraweighted-average
periodof1.5years.TheCompanygenerallywillissuerestrictedsharesfromtreasurystocktotheextent

available,butmayalsoissuenewshares.During2010,2009and2008,thenumberofrestrictedshares
issuedwas423,002,709,415and37,747,respectively,withaweighted-averagegrantdatefairvalueof
$31,880,000,$27,932,000and$3,446,000,respectively.Unrecognizedcompensationexpenseassociated

withrestrictedstockunitswas$7millionasofDecember31,2010andisexpectedtoberecognizedover
aweighted-averageperiodof1.2years.During2010and2009,thenumberofrestrictedstockunitsissued
was231,037and578,131,respectively,withaweighted-averagegrantdatefairvalueof$17,039,000and

$22,663,000,respectively.Therewerenorestrictedstockunitsissuedin2008.
Asummaryofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunitactivityfollows:
RestrictedStockUnits
OutstandingWeighted-
Average
GrantPrice
RestrictedStockOutstandingWeighted-
Average
GrantPrice
UnvestedatJanuary1,2010
......................
566,449$39.21733,687$42.52
Granted....
..................................
231,03773.75423,00275.37
Vested
.......................................
(74,144)41.58(165,799)65.33
Cancelled..
..................................
(3,366)52.07(25,818)49.74
UnvestedatDecember31,2010..
..................
719,976$49.99965,072$52.81
Stockoptionawards
Stockoptionsissuedgenerallyvestoverfouryearsandareexercisableovertermsnotexceedingtenyears
andoneday.TheCompanyusedanoptionpricingmodeltoestimatethegrantdatepresentvalueof
stockoptionsgranted.Stockoptionsgrantedin2010and2009werenotsignificant.For2008the

weighted-averageestimatedgrantdatevalueperoptionwas$15.85.Thevaluewascalculatedusingthe
followingweighted-averageassumptions:anoptiontermof6.5years(representingtheestimatedperiod
betweengrantdateandexercisedatebasedonhistoricaldata);arisk-freeinterestrateof3.21%

(representingtheyieldonaU.S.Treasurysecuritywitharemainingtermequaltotheexpectedoption
term);expectedvolatilityof21%(basedonhistoricalvolatilityofM&T™scommonstockprice);andan
estimateddividendyieldof3.07%(representingtheapproximateannualizedcashdividendratepaidwith

respecttoashareofcommonstockatornearthegrantdate).Basedonhistoricaldataandprojected
employeeturnoverrates,theCompanyreducedtheestimatedvalueofstockoptionsforpurposesof
recognizingstock-basedcompensationexpenseby7%toreflecttheprobabilityofforfeiturepriorto

vesting.Aggregatefairvalueofoptionsexpectedtovestthatweregrantedin2008were$46million.
132M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
Asummaryofstockoptionactivityfollows:
StockOptionsOutstandingExercise
PriceLife(InYears)
Aggregate
IntrinsicValue
(Inthousands)
Weighted-Average
OutstandingatJanuary1,2010..
...................
12,180,017$94.45
Granted..
....................................
3,38673.75
Exercised..
....................................
(1,148,798)65.32
Cancelled.
....................................
(50,368)98.40
Expired...
....................................
(405,822)100.65
OutstandingatDecember31,2010
..................
10,578,415$97.354.6$25,690
ExercisableatDecember31,2010
...................
8,106,077$97.493.9$22,882
For2010,2009and2008,M&Treceived$55million,$15millionand$25million,respectively,in
cashandrealizedtaxbenefitsfromtheexerciseofstockoptionsof$7million,$3millionand$4million,

respectively.Theintrinsicvalueofstockoptionsexercisedduringthoseperiodswas$21million,
$6millionand$13million,respectively.AsofDecember31,2010,therewas$4millionoftotal
unrecognizedcompensationcostrelatedtonon-vestedstockoptions.Thatcostisexpectedtobe

recognizedoveraweighted-averageperiodof1year.Thetotalgrantdatefairvalueofstockoptions
vestedduring2010,2009and2008was$38million,$37millionand$36million,respectively.Uponthe
exerciseofstockoptions,theCompanygenerallyissuessharesfromtreasurystocktotheextentavailable,

butmayalsoissuenewshares.
Stockpurchaseplan
ThestockpurchaseplanprovideseligibleemployeesoftheCompanywiththerighttopurchasesharesof
M&Tcommonstockthroughaccumulatedpayrolldeductions.SharesofM&Tcommonstockwillbe
issuedattheendofanoptionperiod,typicallyoneyearorsixmonths.Inconnectionwiththeemployee
stockpurchaseplan,1,000,000sharesofM&Tcommonstockwereauthorizedforissuance,ofwhich

568,886shareshavebeenissued.Therewere170,405sharesissuedin2010,3,149sharesissuedin2009
and2,377sharesissuedin2008.For2010,2009and2008,respectively,M&Treceived$8,998,000,
$100,000and$173,000incashforsharespurchasedthroughtheemployeestockpurchaseplan.
TheCompanyusedanoptionpricingmodeltoestimatethegrantdatepresentvalueofpurchase
rightsunderthestockpurchaseplan.Theestimatedweighted-averagegrantdatevalueperrightwas
$14.33in2010,$16.39in2009and$12.79in2008.Suchvalueswerecalculatedusingthefollowing
weighted-averageassumptions:atermofsixmonthstooneyear(representingtheperiodbetweengrant

dateandexercisedate);arisk-freeinterestrateof0.29%in2010,0.45%in2009and2.05%in2008
(representingtheyieldonaU.S.Treasurysecuritywithaliketerm);expectedvolatilityof34%in2010
and2008and69%in2009(basedonhistoricalvolatilityofM&T™scommonstockprice);andan

estimateddividendyieldof3.20%in2010,4.77%in2009and3.84%in2008(representingthe
approximateannualizedcashdividendratepaidwithrespecttoashareofcommonstockatornearthe
grantdate).
Deferredbonusplan
TheCompanyprovidedadeferredbonusplanpursuanttowhicheligibleemployeescouldelecttodefer
alloraportionoftheirannualincentivecompensationawardsandallocatesuchawardstoseveral

investmentoptions,includingM&Tcommonstock.Participantscouldelectthetimingofdistributions
fromtheplan.SuchdistributionsarepayableincashwiththeexceptionofbalancesallocatedtoM&T
commonstockwhicharedistributableintheformofM&Tcommonstock.SharesofM&Tcommon

stockdistributablepursuanttothetermsofthedeferredbonusplanwere51,439and54,386at
December31,2010and2009,respectively.Theobligationtoissuesharesisincludedinﬁcommonstock
issuableﬂintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.ThroughDecember31,2010,117,117shareshavebeenissued

inconnectionwiththedeferredbonusplan.
133M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
Directors™stockplan
TheCompanymaintainsacompensationplanfornon-employeemembersoftheCompany™sboardsof
directorsanddirectorsadvisorycouncilsthatallowssuchmemberstoreceivealloraportionoftheir
compensationinsharesofM&Tcommonstock.ThroughDecember31,2010,148,534shareshadbeen
issuedinconnectionwiththedirectors™stockplan.
Throughanacquisition,theCompanyassumedanobligationtoissuesharesofM&Tcommon
stockrelatedtoadeferreddirectorscompensationplan.Sharesofcommonstockissuableundersuch
planwere19,906and20,784atDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.Theobligationtoissueshares

isincludedinﬁcommonstockissuableﬂintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.
Managementstockownershipprogram
Throughanacquisition,M&TobtainedloansthatweresecuredbyM&Tcommonstockpurchasedby
formerexecutivesoftheacquiredentity.AtDecember31,2009,theloanamountsowedM&Twereless
thanthefairvalueofthefinancedstockpurchasedandtotaledapproximately$4million.Suchloans

wereclassifiedasareductionofﬁadditionalpaid-incapitalﬂintheconsolidatedbalancesheetatthat
date.TheamountsduetoM&Twererepaidinfullduring2010.
12.Pensionplansandotherpostretirementbenefits
TheCompanyprovidespension(definedbenefitanddefinedcontributionplans)andotherpostretire-
mentbenefits(includingdefinedbenefithealthcareandlifeinsuranceplans)toqualifiedretired

employees.TheCompanyusesaDecember31measurementdateforallofitsplans.
Netperiodicpensionexpensefordefinedbenefitplansconsistedofthefollowing:
201020092008
YearEndedDecember31
(Inthousands)
Servicecost................................................$
19,670$19,483$19,409
Interestcostonbenefitobligation
................................
47,90546,10742,544
Expectedreturnonplanassets.
.................................
(50,844)(46,976)(46,092)
Amortizationofpriorservicecost
................................
(6,559)(6,559)(6,559)
Recognizednetactuarialloss...
.................................
13,5518,2923,942
Netperiodicpensionexpense..
.................................$
23,723$20,347$13,244
Netotherpostretirementbenefitsexpensefordefinedbenefitplansconsistedofthefollowing:
201020092008
YearEndedDecember31
(Inthousands)
Servicecost.....................................................$383$353$559
Interestcostonbenefitobligation...
.................................
3,1303,3024,033
Amortizationofpriorservicecost...
.................................176243275
Recognizednetactuarialloss..
......................................(9)
(19)42
Netotherpostretirementbenefitsexpense..
............................
$3,680$3,879$4,909
134M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
Datarelatingtothefundingpositionofthedefinedbenefitplanswereasfollows:
2010200920102009
PensionBenefits
OtherPostretirementBenefits
(Inthousands)
Changeinbenefitobligation:
Benefitobligationatbeginningofyear......
..........$
857,122$750,913$56,575$62,950
Servicecost
....................................
19,67019,483383353
Interestcost
....................................
47,90546,1073,1303,302
Planparticipants™contributions.
....................ŠŠ
2,7763,138
Actuarial(gain)loss
..............................
64,06126,6946,433(5,209)
Settlements/curtailments
..........................
(3,231)(7,232)ŠŠ
Businesscombinations..
..........................Š
58,239Š343
MedicarePartDreimbursement
....................ŠŠ789870
Benefitspaid.....
..............................
(37,534)(37,082)(8,411)(9,172)
Benefitobligationatendofyear
....................
947,993857,12261,67556,575
Changeinplanassets:
Fairvalueofplanassetsatbeginningofyear.
..........
766,880550,671ŠŠ
Actualreturnonplanassets
........................
107,846158,945ŠŠ
Employercontributions.
..........................
4,50448,5284,8465,164
Businesscombinations..
..........................Š
51,657ŠŠ
Planparticipants™contributions.
....................ŠŠ
2,7763,138
MedicarePartDreimbursement
....................ŠŠ789870
Settlements....................................
(3,231)(5,839)ŠŠ
Benefitsandotherpayments...
....................
(37,534)(37,082)(8,411)(9,172)
Fairvalueofplanassetsatendofyear......
..........
838,465766,880ŠŠ
Fundedstatus
....................................
$(109,528)$(90,242)$(61,675)$(56,575)
Assetsandliabilitiesrecognizedintheconsolidatedbalance
sheetwere:
Netprepaidasset..
..............................$
6,629$6,266$Š$Š
Accruedliabilities..
..............................
(116,157)(96,508)(61,675)(56,575)
Amountsrecognizedinaccumulatedothercomprehensive
income(ﬁAOCIﬂ)were:
Netloss(gain)....
..............................$
232,725$239,219$2,577$(3,663)
Netpriorservicecost...
..........................
(36,572)(43,131)269243
Pre-taxadjustmenttoAOCI
........................
196,153196,0882,846(3,420)
Taxes.........................................
(76,990)(76,950)(1,117)1,328
NetadjustmenttoAOCI
..........................$
119,163$119,138$1,729$(2,092)
TheCompanyhasanunfundedsupplementalpensionplanforcertainkeyexecutives.The
projectedbenefitobligationandaccumulatedbenefitobligationincludedintheprecedingdatarelatedto
suchplanwere$66,254,000and$66,208,000respectively,asofDecember31,2010and$63,705,000and

$63,640,000,respectively,asofDecember31,2009.Includedintheamountsfor2009wasapproximately
$15millionassumedintheProvidentacquisition.
Theaccumulatedbenefitobligationforalldefinedbenefitpensionplanswas$929,775,000and
$843,279,000atDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.AsofDecember31,2010,theaccumulated
benefitobligationforthosedefinedbenefitpensionplansinwhichsuchobligationexceededplanassets
totaled$884,269,000(including$66,208,000relatedtotheunfundedsupplementalpensionplan).Asof

December31,2009,theaccumulatedbenefitobligationforthosedefinedbenefitpensionplansinwhich
135M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
suchobligationexceededplanassetstotaled$797,101,000(including$63,640,000relatedtotheunfunded
supplementalpensionplan).
GAAPrequiresanemployertorecognizeinitsbalancesheetasanassetorliabilitytheoverfunded
orunderfundedstatusofadefinedbenefitpostretirementplan,measuredasthedifferencebetweenthe
fairvalueofplanassetsandthebenefitobligation.Forapensionplan,thebenefitobligationisthe
projectedbenefitobligation;foranyotherpostretirementbenefitplan,suchasaretireehealthcareplan,

thebenefitobligationistheaccumulatedpostretirementbenefitobligation.Gainsorlossesandprior
servicecostsorcreditsthatariseduringtheperiod,butarenotincludedascomponentsofnetperiodic
benefitexpense,arerecognizedasacomponentofothercomprehensiveincome.Asindicatedinthe

precedingtable,asofDecember31,2010theCompanyrecordedaminimumliabilityadjustmentof
$198,999,000($196,153,000relatedtopensionplansand$2,846,000relatedtootherpostretirement
benefits)withacorrespondingreductionofshareholders™equity,netofapplicabledeferredtaxes,of

$120,892,000.Ofthe$196,153,000relatedtopensionplans,$11,995,000wasrelatedtounfunded
nonqualifieddefinedbenefitplans.Inaggregate,thebenefitplansincurredanetlossduring2010that
resultedfromactualexperiencedifferingfromtheplanassumptionsutilizedandfromchangesin

actuarialassumptions.Themainfactorcontributingtothoselosseswasareductioninthediscountrate
usedtomeasurethebenefitobligationsatDecember31,2010to5.25%fromthe5.75%rateusedat
December31,2009.Forthequalifieddefinedbenefitpensionplans,thelossesassociatedwiththatchange

inassumptionwerelargelymitigatedbygainsassociatedwithapositivereturnonassetsofapproximately
$108millionascomparedwithanexpectedgainofapproximately$51million.Asaresult,theCompany
increaseditsminimumliabilityadjustmentfromthatwhichwasrecordedatDecember31,2009by

$6,331,000withacorrespondingdecreasetoshareholders™equitythat,netofapplicabledeferredtaxes,

was$3,846,000.Thetablebelowreflectsthechangesinplanassetsandbenefitobligationsrecognizedin
othercomprehensiveincomerelatedtotheCompany™spostretirementbenefitplans.
PensionPlans
OtherPostretirement
BenefitPlansTotal
(Inthousands)
2010Netloss(gain)..
.......................................$
7,057$6,433$13,490
Amortizationofpriorservice(cost)credit...
.................
6,559(176)6,383
Amortizationof(loss)gain
................................
(13,551)9(13,542)
Totalrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincome,pre-tax...
......$65$
6,266$6,331
2009Netloss(gain)..
.......................................
$(85,265)$(5,209)$(90,474)
Amortizationofpriorservice(cost)credit...
.................
6,559(242)6,317
Amortizationof(loss)gain
................................
(9,685)19(9,666)
Totalrecognizedinothercomprehensiveincome,pre-tax...
......
$(88,391)$(5,432)$(93,823)
Thefollowingtablereflectstheamortizationofamountsinaccumulatedothercomprehensive
incomeexpectedtoberecognizedascomponentsofnetperiodicbenefitexpenseduring2011:
PensionPlans
OtherPostretirement
BenefitPlans
(Inthousands)
Amortizationofnetpriorservicecost(credit)...
........................$
(6,559)$108
Amortizationofnetloss..
.........................................
20,37918
TheCompanyalsoprovidesaqualifieddefinedcontributionpensionplantoeligibleemployees
whowerenotparticipantsinthedefinedbenefitpensionplanasofDecember31,2005andtoother
employeeswhohaveelectedtoparticipateinthedefinedcontributionplan.TheCompanymakes
contributionstothedefinedcontributionplaneachyearinanamountthatisbasedonanindividual

participant™stotalcompensation(generallydefinedastotalwages,incentivecompensation,commissions
136M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
andbonuses)andyearsofservice.Participantsdonotcontributetothedefinedcontributionpension
plan.Pensionexpenserecordedin2010,2009and2008associatedwiththedefinedcontributionpension
planwasapproximately$14million,$11millionand$10million,respectively.
Assumptions
Theassumedweighted-averageratesusedtodeterminebenefitobligationsatDecember31were:
2010200920102009
Pension
BenefitsOtherPostretirement
BenefitsDiscountrate
..............................................
5.25%5.75%5.25%5.75%
Rateofincreaseinfuturecompensationlevels..
...................4.50%
4.50%ŠŠ
Theassumedweighted-averageratesusedtodeterminenetbenefitexpensefortheyearsended
December31were:
201020092008201020092008
PensionBenefits
OtherPostretirementBenefits
Discountrate
.......................................
5.75%6.00%6.00%5.75%6.00%6.00%
Long-termrateofreturnonplanassets.............
......
6.50%6.50%7.50%ŠŠŠ
Rateofincreaseinfuturecompensationlevels........
......
4.50%4.60%4.60%ŠŠŠ
OnMay23,2009,pensionandotherobligationswereassumedasaresultoftheacquisitionof
Provident.Initialliabilitiesweredeterminedusinga7.00%discountrate.Allfuturebenefitaccruals

relatedtotheformerProvidentqualifiedpensionplanwerefrozen.
Theexpectedlong-termrateofreturnassumptionasofeachmeasurementdatewasdeveloped
throughanalysisofhistoricalmarketreturns,currentmarketconditions,anticipatedfutureassetalloca-
tions,thefunds™pastexperience,andexpectationsonpotentialfuturemarketreturns.Theexpectedrate

ofreturnassumptionrepresentsalong-termaverageviewoftheperformanceoftheplanassets,areturn
thatmayormaynotbeachievedduringanyonecalendaryear.
Formeasurementofotherpostretirementbenefits,an8.0%annualrateofincreaseintheper
capitacostofcoveredhealthcarebenefitswasassumedfor2011.Theratewasassumedtodecreaseto
5%over30years.Assumedhealthcarecosttrendrateshaveasignificanteffectontheamountsreported
forhealthcareplans.Aone-percentagepointchangeinassumedhealthcarecosttrendrateswouldhave

hadthefollowingeffects:
+1%-1%
(Inthousands)
Increase(decrease)in:
Serviceandinterestcost....
...............................................$143$
(128)Accumulatedpostretirementbenefitobligation...
...............................
3,218(2,876)
PlanAssets
TheCompany™spolicyistoinvestthepensionplanassetsinaprudentmannerforthepurposeof
providingbenefitpaymentstoparticipantsandmitigatingreasonableexpensesofadministration.The
Company™sinvestmentstrategyisdesignedtoprovideatotalreturnthat,overthelong-term,placesa

strongemphasisonthepreservationofcapital.Thestrategyattemptstomaximizeinvestmentreturnson
assetsatalevelofriskdeemedappropriatebytheCompanywhilecomplyingwithapplicableregulations
andlaws.Theinvestmentstrategyutilizesassetallocationasaprincipaldeterminantforestablishingan

appropriateriskprofile.Thetargetallocationsforplanassetsaregenerally55to70percentequity
securities,25to40percentdebtsecurities,and3to10percentmoney-marketfundsorothershort-term
investments.Equitysecuritiesincludeinvestmentsinlarge-capandmid-capcompanieslocatedinthe

UnitedStates,equitymutualfundswithinternationalinvestments,and,toalesserextent,direct
137M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
investmentsinforeign-basedcompanies.Debtsecuritiesincludecorporatebondsofcompaniesfrom
diversifiedindustries,mortgage-backedsecuritiesguaranteedbygovernmentagencies,U.S.Treasury
securities,andmutualfundsthatinvestindebtsecurities.Returnsoninvestedassetsareperiodically

comparedwithtargetmarketindicesforeachassettypetoaidmanagementinevaluatingsuchreturns.
Furthermore,managementregularlyreviewstheinvestmentpolicyandmay,ifdeemedappropriate,make
changestothetargetallocationsnotedabove.
ThefairvaluesoftheCompany™spensionplanassetsatDecember31,2010,byassetcategory,are
asfollows:
Total
QuotedPrices
inActive
Markets
forIdenticalAssets
(Level1)
Significant
Observable
Inputs(Level2)
Significant
Unobservable
Inputs(Level3)
FairValueMeasurementofPlanAssetsAtDecember31,2010
(Inthousands)
Assetcategory:
Money-marketfunds...
.....................$
26,38926,389ŠŠ
Equitysecurities:
M&T..................................
106,891106,891ŠŠ
Domestic(a).
...........................
148,218148,218ŠŠ
International.
...........................
9,6909,690ŠŠ
Mutualfunds:
Domestic..
...........................
54,03954,039ŠŠ
International..........................
150,961150,961ŠŠ
469,799469,799ŠŠ
Debtsecurities:
Corporate(b).
...........................
204,899Š204,899Š
Government.
...........................
65,589Š65,589Š
International.
...........................
7,143Š7,143Š
Mutualfunds:
Domestic(c)...........................
35,59435,594ŠŠ
International..........................
25,49125,491ŠŠ
338,71661,085277,631Š
Total(d)......
...........................
$834,904557,273277,631Š
138M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
ThefairvaluesoftheCompany™spensionplanassetsatDecember31,2009,byassetcategory,are
asfollows:
Total(Level1)(Level2)
QuotedPrices
inActive
Markets
forIdenticalAssets
Significant
Observable
InputsSignificant
Unobservable
Inputs(Level3)
FairValueMeasurementofPlanAssetsAtDecember31,2009
(Inthousands)
Assetcategory:
Money-marketfunds
.......................$
27,56027,560ŠŠ
Equitysecurities:
M&T.................................
82,13682,136ŠŠ
Domestic(a)............................
162,401162,401ŠŠ
International....
.......................
8,0218,021ŠŠ
MutualFunds:
Domestic............................
40,19540,195ŠŠ
International...
.......................
130,767130,767ŠŠ
423,520423,520ŠŠ
Debtsecurities:
Corporate(b)....
.......................
194,515Š194,515Š
Government
............................
50,054Š50,054Š
International....
.......................
5,440Š5,440Š
MutualFunds:
Domestic(c)...
.......................
38,83338,833ŠŠ
International...
.......................
23,32023,320ŠŠ
312,16262,153250,009Š
Total(d)
.................................
$763,242513,233250,009Š
(a)Thiscategoryiscomprisedofequitiesofcompaniesprimarilywithinthemid-capandlarge-capsectorofthe
U.S.economyandrangeacrossdiverseindustries.
(b)ThiscategoryrepresentsinvestmentgradebondsofU.S.issuersfromdiverseindustries.
(c)Approximately30%ofthemutualfundsareinvestedininvestmentgradebondsofU.S.issuersand70%in
high-yieldingbonds.Theholdingswithinthefundsarespreadacrossdiverseindustries.
(d)Excludesdividendsandinterestreceivabletotaling$3,561,000and$3,638,000atDecember31,2010and
2009,respectively.
PensionplanassetsincludedcommonstockofM&Twithafairvalueof$106,891,000(12.7%of
totalplanassets)atDecember31,2010and$82,136,000(10.7%oftotalplanassets)atDecember31,
2009.Nootherinvestmentinsecuritiesofanon-U.S.Governmentorgovernmentagencyissuerexceeded

tenpercentofplanassetsatDecember31,2010.
TheCompanymakescontributionstoitsfundedqualifieddefinedbenefitpensionplansas
requiredbygovernmentregulationorasdeemedappropriatebymanagementafterconsideringfactors

suchasthefairvalueofplanassets,expectedreturnsonsuchassets,andthepresentvalueofbenefit
obligationsoftheplans.Subjecttotheimpactofactualeventsandcircumstancesthatmayoccurin
2011,theCompanymaymakecontributionstothequalifieddefinedbenefitpensionplansin2011,but

theamountofanysuchcontributionhasnotyetbeendetermined.Nominimumcontributionisrequired
in2011undergovernmentregulationsforthequalifieddefinedbenefitpensionplans.TheCompany™s
contributionstothequalifieddefinedbenefitpensionplanstotaled$44millionin2009intheformof

commonstockofM&T.TheCompanydidnotmakeanycontributionstothoseplansin2010.The
139M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
Companyregularlyfundsthepaymentofbenefitobligationsforthesupplementaldefinedbenefitpension
andpostretirementbenefitplansbecausesuchplansdonotholdassetsforinvestment.Paymentsmade
bytheCompanyforsupplementalpensionbenefitswere$4,504,000and$4,239,000in2010and2009,

respectively.PaymentsmadebytheCompanyforpostretirementbenefitswere$4,846,000and$5,164,000
in2010and2009,respectively.Paymentsforsupplementalpensionandotherpostretirementbenefitsfor
2011arenotexpectedtodifferfromthosemadein2010byanamountthatwillbematerialtothe

Company™sconsolidatedfinancialposition.
EstimatedbenefitsexpectedtobepaidinfutureyearsrelatedtotheCompany™sdefinedbenefit
pensionandotherpostretirementbenefitsplansareasfollows:
Pension
BenefitsOtherPostretirement
Benefits(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2011..........................................................$
43,599$6,399
2012..........................................................
46,1446,294
2013..........................................................
48,7946,236
2014..........................................................
52,4356,177
2015..........................................................
54,8476,081
2016through2020
...............................................
326,13428,318
TheCompanyhasaretirementsavingsplan(ﬁRSPﬂ)thatisadefinedcontributionplaninwhich
eligibleemployeesoftheCompanymaydeferupto50%ofqualifiedcompensationviacontributionsto
theplan.TheCompanymakesanemployermatchingcontributioninanamountequalto75%ofan
employee™scontribution,upto4.5%oftheemployee™squalifiedcompensation.Employees™accounts,

includingemployeecontributions,employermatchingcontributionsandaccumulatedearningsthereon,
areatalltimesfullyvestedandnonforfeitable.EmployeebenefitsexpenseresultingfromtheCompany™s
contributionstotheRSPtotaled$24,683,000,$23,719,000and$23,311,000in2010,2009and2008,

respectively.
13.Incometaxes
Thecomponentsofincometaxexpense(benefit)wereasfollows:
201020092008
YearEndedDecember31
(Inthousands)
Current
Federal.
................................................
$250,489$52,792$231,426
Stateandcity..
...........................................
55,0714,107(30,514)
Totalcurrent
...........................................
305,56056,899200,912
Deferred
Federal.
................................................
47,12367,372(10,095)
Stateandcity..
...........................................
3,94515,129(6,925)
Totaldeferred
...........................................
51,06882,501(17,020)
Totalincometaxesapplicabletopre-taxincome.
................
$356,628$139,400$183,892
TheCompanyfilesaconsolidatedfederalincometaxreturnreflectingtaxableincomeearnedby
allsubsidiaries.Inprioryears,applicablefederaltaxlawallowedcertainfinancialinstitutionstheoption
140M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
ofdeductingasbaddebtexpensefortaxpurposesamountsinexcessofactuallosses.Inaccordancewith
GAAP,suchfinancialinstitutionswerenotrequiredtoprovidedeferredincometaxesonsuchexcess.
Recaptureoftheexcesstaxbaddebtreserveestablishedunderthepreviouslyallowedmethodwillresult

intaxableincomeifM&TBankfailstomaintainbankstatusasdefinedintheInternalRevenueCodeor
chargesaremadetothereserveforotherthanbaddebtlosses.AtDecember31,2010,M&TBank™stax
baddebtreserveforwhichnofederalincometaxeshavebeenprovidedwas$79,121,000.Noactionsare

plannedthatwouldcausethisreservetobecomewhollyorpartiallytaxable.
Incometaxesattributabletogainsorlossesonbankinvestmentsecuritieswerebenefitsof
$32,778,000,$53,824,000and$57,859,000in2010,2009and2008,respectively.Noalternativeminimum

taxexpensewasrecognizedin2010,2009or2008.
Totalincometaxesdifferedfromtheamountcomputedbyapplyingthestatutoryfederalincome
taxratetopre-taxincomeasfollows:
201020092008
YearEndedDecember31
(Inthousands)
Incometaxesatstatutoryrate..
................................
$382,476$181,752$258,923
Increase(decrease)intaxes:
Tax-exemptincome..
......................................
(32,466)(31,071)(31,668)
Stateandcityincometaxes,netoffederalincometaxeffect
..........
38,36012,503(24,335)
Lowincomehousingcredits.
................................
(29,882)(20,749)(21,170)
Other..
................................................
(1,860)(3,035)2,142
$356,628$139,400$183,892
Deferredtaxassets(liabilities)werecomprisedofthefollowingatDecember31:
201020092008
(Inthousands)
Lossesonloansandotherassets
..............................$
550,970$642,427$389,177
Postretirementandotheremployeebenefits
.....................
48,86346,31643,874
Incentivecompensationplans
................................
27,38827,83528,489
Interestonloans
.........................................
43,56335,77238,835
Retirementbenefits...
....................................
21,69414,30562,185
Stock-basedcompensation..
................................
70,64169,88158,837
Unrealizedinvestmentlosses
................................
54,557140,821331,616
Depreciationandamortization
...............................
13,3326,27410,141
Capitalizedservicingrights..
................................ŠŠ
3,243Other..
................................................
51,76840,28128,478
Grossdeferredtaxassets..
................................
882,7761,023,912994,875
Leasingtransactions...
....................................
(294,510)(306,799)(316,444)
Capitalizedservicingrights..
................................
(14,739)(8,412)Š
Interestonsubordinatednoteexchange...
.....................
(13,534)(15,051)(16,264)
Other..
................................................
(36,080)(32,617)(9,691)
Grossdeferredtaxliabilities
...............................
(358,863)(362,879)(342,399)
Netdeferredtaxasset..
....................................$
523,913$661,033$652,476
TheCompanybelievesthatitismorelikelythannotthatthedeferredtaxassetswillberealized
throughtaxableearningsoralternativetaxstrategies.
TheincometaxcreditsshowninthestatementofincomeofM&Tinnote26ariseprincipally
fromoperatinglossesbeforedividendsfromsubsidiaries.
141M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
Areconciliationofthebeginningandendingamountofunrecognizedtaxbenefitsfollows:
Federal,
Stateand
LocalTax
Accrued
InterestUnrecognized
IncomeTax
Benefits(Inthousands)
GrossunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatJanuary1,2008
........................$120
,044$26,368$146,412
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakenduring
2008.......................................................
2,405Š2,405
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakenduring
prioryears
...................................................Š
15,83715,837
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakenduring
prioryears
...................................................
(52,399)(15,533)(67,932)
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultofsettlementswithtaxing
authorities...................................................
(31,763)(9,116)(40,879)
GrossunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatDecember31,2008
.....................
38,28717,55655,843
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakenduring
2009.......................................................400Š400
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakenduring
prioryears
...................................................Š
3,6753,675
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsbecauseapplicablereturnsarenolonger
subjecttoexamination
..........................................
(9,902)(1,392)(11,294)
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultofsettlementswithtaxing
authorities...................................................
(825)(331)(1,156)
Unrecognizedtaxbenefitsacquiredinabusinesscombination.
...............337Š337
GrossunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatDecember31,2009
.....................
28,29719,50847,805
Increasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakenduring
prioryears
...................................................Š
11,46811,468
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsbecauseapplicablereturnsarenolonger
subjecttoexamination
..........................................
(1,403)(670)(2,073)
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultofsettlementswithtaxing
authorities...................................................
(967)(549)(1,516)
Decreasesinunrecognizedtaxbenefitsasaresultoftaxpositionstakeninprior
years.......................................................
(1,074)(9,061)(10,135)
GrossunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatDecember31,2010
.....................$
24,853$20,69645,549
Less:Federal,stateandlocalincometaxbenefits
..........................
(15,478)NetunrecognizedtaxbenefitsatDecember31,2010that,ifrecognized,would
impacttheeffectiveincometaxrate
.................................$
30,071TheCompany™spolicyistorecognizeinterestandpenalties,ifany,relatedtounrecognizedtax
benefitsinincometaxesintheconsolidatedstatementofincome.Thebalanceofaccruedinterestat

December31,2010isincludedinthetableabove.TheCompany™sfederal,stateandlocalincometax
returnsareroutinelysubjecttoexaminationsfromvariousgovernmentaltaxingauthorities.Such
examinationsmayresultinchallengestothetaxreturntreatmentappliedbytheCompanytospecific

transactions.Managementbelievesthattheassumptionsandjudgmentusedtorecordtax-relatedassets

orliabilitieshavebeenappropriate.Shoulddeterminationsrenderedbytaxauthoritiesultimatelyindicate

thatmanagement™sassumptionswereinappropriate,theresultandadjustmentsrequiredcouldhavea
materialeffectontheCompany™sresultsofoperations.Understatute,theCompany™sfederalincometax
returnsfortheyears2007and2008couldbeadjustedbytheInternalRevenueService,although

examinationsforthosetaxyearshavebeenconcluded.Thefederalincometaxreturnfor2009iscurrently

underexamination,althoughnoissueshavebeenraisedthatwouldmateriallyimpacttheeffectivetax

rate.TheCompanyalsofilesincometaxreturnsinoverfortystateandlocaljurisdictions.Substantially

allmaterialstateandlocalmattershavebeenconcludedforyearsthrough2001.Sometaxreturnsfor
yearsafter2001arepresentlyunderexamination.Itisnotreasonablypossibletoestimatewhenanyof
thoseexaminationswillbecompletedorifotherswillbecommenced.
142M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
14.Earningspercommonshare
Thecomputationsofbasicearningspercommonsharefollow:
201020092008
YearEndedDecember31
(Inthousands,exceptpershare)
Incomeavailabletocommonshareholders:
Netincome...
...........................................
$736,161$379,891$555,887
Less:Preferredstockdividends(a)....
.........................
(40,225)(36,081)(667)
Amortizationofpreferredstockdiscount(a)..
................
(10,518)(8,130)(124)
Netincomeavailabletocommonequity........
................
685,418335,680555,096
Less:Incomeattributabletounvestedstock-based
compensationawards
.....................................
(9,592)(3,674)Š
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders.....
................
$675,826$332,006$555,096
Weighted-averagesharesoutstanding:
Commonsharesoutstanding(includingcommonstockissuable)and
unvestedstock-basedcompensationawards..
................
119,852115,838110,211
Less:Unvestedstock-basedcompensationawards
................
(1,661)(1,178)Š
Weighted-averagesharesoutstanding....
.........................
118,191114,660110,211
Basicearningspercommonshare
...............................$
5.72$2.90$5.04
(a)Includingimpactofnotasyetdeclaredcumulativedividends.
Thecomputationsofdilutedearningspercommonsharefollow:
201020092008
YearEndedDecember31
(Inthousands,exceptpershare)
Netincomeavailabletocommonequity.
.........................
$685,418$335,680$555,096
Less:Incomeattributabletounvestedstock-basedcompensation
awards
................................................
(9,565)(3,674)Š
Netincomeavailabletocommonshareholders.....
................$
675,853$332,006$555,096
Adjustedweighted-averagesharesoutstanding:
Commonandunvestedstock-basedcompensationawards
...........
119,852115,838110,211
Less:Unvestedstock-basedcompensationawards..
................
(1,661)(1,178)Š
Plus:Incrementalsharesfromassumedconversionofstock-based
compensationawardsandconvertiblepreferredstock..
...........652116693
Adjustedweighted-averagesharesoutstanding......
................
118,843114,776110,904
Dilutedearningspercommonshare....
.........................$
5.69$2.89$5.01
GAAPrequiresthatforfinancialstatementsissuedforfiscalyearsbeginningafterDecember15,
2008,unvestedshare-basedpaymentawardsthatcontainnonforfeitablerightstodividendsordividend

equivalents(whetherpaidorunpaid)areparticipatingsecuritiesandshallbeincludedinthecomputa-
tionofearningspercommonsharepursuanttothetwo-classmethod.In2009and2010,theCompany
issuedstock-basedcompensationawardsintheformofrestrictedstockandrestrictedstockunits,which,

inaccordancewithGAAP,areconsideredparticipatingsecurities.Beginningin2009,theCompany™s
earningspercommonsharearecalculatedusingthetwo-classmethod.Theeffectsoftheapplicationof
thetwo-classmethodtopreviouslyreportedearningspercommonshareamountswereimmaterial.
Stock-basedcompensationawards,warrantstopurchasecommonstockofM&Tandpreferredstock
convertibleintosharesofM&Tcommonstockrepresentingapproximately11,231,000,15,040,000and
10,082,000commonsharesduring2010,2009and2008,respectively,werenotincludedinthecomputa-

tionsofdilutedearningspercommonsharebecausetheeffectonthoseyearswouldbeantidilutive.
143M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
15.Comprehensiveincome
Thefollowingtabledisplaysthecomponentsofothercomprehensiveincome:
Before-taxAmountIncomeTaxesNet
(Inthousands)
FortheyearendedDecember31,2010

Unrealizedgains(losses)oninvestmentsecurities:
Available-for-sale(ﬁAFSﬂ)investmentsecuritieswithother-than-temporaryimpairment(ﬁOTTIﬂ):
SecuritieswithOTTIcharges...
..........................................$
(104,039)$40,566$(63,473)
Less:OTTIchargesrecognizedinnetincome
..................................
(81,199)31,552(49,647)
NetunrealizedlossesoninvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI...
.......................
(22,840)9,014(13,826)
AFSinvestmentsecuritiesŠallother:
Unrealizedholdinggains......
..........................................
132,128(51,624)80,504
Less:reclassificationadjustmentforgainsrealizedinnetincome.....
................
1,581(610)971
Less:securitieswithOTTIcharges...
......................................
(104,039)40,566(63,473)
234,586(91,580)143,006
Held-to-maturity(ﬁHTMﬂ)investmentsecuritiespreviouslytransferred
fromAFStoHTMwithOTTI:
SecuritieswithOTTIcharges...
..........................................
(11,908)4,674(7,234)
Less:Impairmentpreviouslyreflectedinothercomprehensiveincome..
................
(7,984)3,134(4,850)
Less:OTTIchargesrecognizedinnetincome
..................................
(5,082)1,995(3,087)
NetchangeforinvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI.....
...........................
1,158(455)703
Reclassificationtoincomeofunrealizedholdinglossesoninvestmentsecuritiespreviously
transferredfromAFStoHTM..
..........................................
8,264(3,243)5,021
9,422(3,698)5,724
Netunrealizedgainsoninvestmentsecurities..
..................................
221,168(86,264)134,904
Reclassificationtoincomeforamortizationofgainsonterminatedcashflowhedges.....
.....
(448)167(281)
Definedbenefitplansliabilityadjustment
......................................
(6,331)2,485(3,846)
$214,389$(83,612)$130,777
FortheyearendedDecember31,2009
Unrealizedgains(losses)oninvestmentsecurities:
AFSinvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI:
SecuritieswithOTTIcharges...
..........................................$
(264,363)$103,409$(160,954)
Less:OTTIchargesrecognizedinnetincome
..................................
(138,297)54,115(84,182)
NetunrealizedlossesoninvestmentsecuritieswithOTTI...
.......................
(126,066)49,294(76,772)
AFSinvestmentsecuritiesŠallother:
Unrealizedholdinggains......
..........................................
375,733(144,228)231,505
Less:reclassificationadjustmentforgainsrealizedinnetincome.....
................219
(85)134
Less:securitieswithOTTIcharges...
......................................
(264,363)103,409(160,954)
639,877(247,552)392,325
Reclassificationtoincomeofunrealizedholdinglossesoninvestmentsecuritiespreviously
transferredfromAFStoHTM..
..........................................
14,0277,46321,490
Netunrealizedgainsoninvestmentsecurities..
..................................
527,838(190,795)337,043
Reclassificationtoincomeforamortizationoflossesonterminatedcashflowhedges....
.....
10,761(4,204)6,557
Definedbenefitplansliabilityadjustment
......................................
93,823(36,539)57,284
$632,422$(231,538)$400,884
144M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
Before-taxAmountIncomeTaxesNet
(Inthousands)
FortheyearendedDecember31,2008
UnrealizedlossesonAFSinvestmentsecurities:
Unrealizedholdinglosses.....
..........................................
$(1,001,417)$331,461$(669,956)
Add:transferofinvestmentsecuritiesfromAFStoHTM...
.......................
86,943(20,972)65,971
Less:reclassificationadjustmentforlossesrecognizedinnetincome...
................
(180,274)10,863(169,411)
(734,200)299,626(434,574)
UnrealizedholdinglossesoninvestmentsecuritiestransferredfromAFStoHTM:
Unrealizedholdinglossestransferred..
......................................
(86,943)20,972(65,971)
Reclassificationtoincomeofunrealizedholdinglosses.
...........................
5,101(1,818)3,283
(81,842)19,154(62,688)
Netunrealizedlossesoninvestmentsecurities.
..................................
(816,042)318,780(497,262)
Cashflowhedges:
Unrealizedlossesonterminatedcashflowhedges....
...........................
(20,225)7,887(12,338)
Reclassificationtoincomeforamortizationoflossesonterminatedcashflowhedges...
.....
25,234(9,848)15,386
5,009(1,961)3,048
Definedbenefitplansliabilityadjustment
......................................
(210,161)82,316(127,845)
$(1,021,194)$399,135$(622,059)
Duringthethirdquarterof2008theCompanytransferredprivatecollateralizedmortgage
obligationshavingafairvalueof$298millionandacostbasisof$385millionfromitsavailable-for-sale
investmentsecuritiesportfoliototheheld-to-maturityportfolio.
Accumulatedothercomprehensiveincome(loss),netconsistedofunrealizedgains(losses)as
follows:
Investment
Securities
WithOTTI
AllOther
Investment
Securities
CashFlowHedges
DefinedBenefitPlansTotal
(Inthousands)
BalanceatJanuary1,2008...
.............$Š$
(59,406)$(8,931)$(46,485)$(114,822)
Netgain(loss)during2008..
.............Š
(497,262)3,048(127,845)(622,059)
BalanceatDecember31,2008
.............Š
(556,668)(5,883)(174,330)(736,881)
Netgain(loss)during2009..
.............
(76,772)413,8156,55757,284400,884
BalanceatDecember31,2009
.............
(76,772)(142,853)674(117,046)(335,997)
Netgain(loss)during2010..
.............
(10,281)145,185(281)(3,846)130,777
BalanceatDecember31,2010
.............
$(87,053)$2,332$393$(120,892)$(205,220)
145M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
16.Otherincomeandotherexpense
Thefollowingitems,whichexceeded1%oftotalinterestincomeandotherincomeintherespective
period,wereincludedineitherﬁotherrevenuesfromoperationsﬂorﬁothercostsofoperationsﬂinthe

consolidatedstatementofincome:
201020092008
YearEndedDecember31
(Inthousands)
Otherincome:
Bankownedlifeinsurance...
................................$
50,483$49,152$49,006
Credit-relatedfeeincome
....................................
62,29456,15055,293
Letterofcreditfees..
......................................
49,76244,005
Otherexpense:
Professionalservices..
......................................
128,629117,523112,632
Amortizationofcapitalizedservicingrights......
................
56,58262,26865,722
Advertisingandpromotion..
................................
41,86939,364
17.Internationalactivities
TheCompanyengagesincertaininternationalactivitiesconsistinglargelyofcollectingEurodollar
deposits,engaginginforeigncurrencytrading,providingcredittosupporttheinternationalactivitiesof
domesticcompaniesandholdingcertainloanstoforeignborrowers.Netassetsidentifiedwithinterna-

tionalactivitiesamountedto$112,851,000and$61,849,000atDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.
Suchassetsincluded$107,310,000and$55,336,000,respectively,ofloanstoforeignborrowers.Deposits
atM&TBank™sCaymanIslandsofficewere$1,605,916,000and$1,050,438,000atDecember31,2010and

2009,respectively.TheCompanyusessuchdepositstofacilitatecustomerdemandandasanalternative
toshort-termborrowingswhenthecostsofsuchdepositsseemreasonable.
18.Derivativefinancialinstruments
Aspartofmanaginginterestraterisk,theCompanyentersintointerestrateswapagreementstomodify
therepricingcharacteristicsofcertainportionsoftheCompany™sportfoliosofearningassetsand

interest-bearingliabilities.TheCompanydesignatesinterestrateswapagreementsutilizedinthemanage-
mentofinterestrateriskaseitherfairvaluehedgesorcashflowhedges.Interestrateswapagreements
aregenerallyenteredintowithcounterpartiesthatmeetestablishedcreditstandardsandmostcontain

masternettingandcollateralprovisionsprotectingtheat-riskparty.Basedonadherencetothe
Company™screditstandardsandthepresenceofthenettingandcollateralprovisions,theCompany
believesthatthecreditriskinherentinthesecontractsisnotsignificantasofDecember31,2010.
Theneteffectofinterestrateswapagreementswastoincreasenetinterestincomeby$42million
in2010,$38millionin2009and$16millionin2008.Theaveragenotionalamountsofinterestrateswap
agreementsimpactingnetinterestincomethatwereenteredintoforinterestrateriskmanagement
purposeswere$1.01billionin2010,$1.08billionin2009and$1.27billionin2008.
146M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
Informationaboutinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintoforinterestrateriskmanagement
purposessummarizedbytypeoffinancialinstrumenttheswapagreementswereintendedtohedge
follows:
Notional
AmountAverage
MaturityFixedVariable
EstimatedFair
ValueGain
Weighted-Average
Rate(Inthousands)(Inyears)(Inthousands)
December31,2010
Fairvaluehedges:

Fixedratelong-termborrowings(a)...........$900,0006.46.07%1.84%$96,637
December31,2009
Fairvaluehedges:

Fixedratetimedeposits(a)...
..............$
25,0003.75.30%0.34%$503
Fixedratelong-termborrowings(a)...........1,037,2416.56.332.1253,983
$1,062,2416.46.30%2.07%$54,486
(a)Underthetermsoftheseagreements,theCompanyreceivessettlementamountsatafixedrateandpaysata
variablerate.
Inresponsetochangesinitsinterestrateriskprofile,during2008theCompanyterminated
interestrateswapagreementswithanotionalamountof$1.5billionthathadoriginallybeenentered

intoascashflowhedgesofvariableratelong-termborrowings.TheCompanyrecognizeda$37million
lossasaresultofthetermination.Amountspertainingtotheseinterestrateswapagreementsthatwere
reclassifiedfromaccumulatedothercomprehensiveincometoincreaseinterestexpensewere$11million

and$26millionfor2009and2008,respectively.
Thenotionalamountofinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintoforriskmanagementpurposes
thatwereoutstandingatDecember31,2010maturein2016and2017.
TheCompanyutilizescommitmentstosellresidentialandcommercialrealestateloanstohedge
theexposuretochangesinthefairvalueofrealestateloansheldforsale.Suchcommitmentshave
generallybeendesignatedasfairvaluehedges.TheCompanyalsoutilizescommitmentstosellrealestate

loanstooffsettheexposuretochangesinfairvalueofcertaincommitmentstooriginaterealestateloans
forsale.
Derivativefinancialinstrumentsusedfortradingpurposesincludedinterestratecontracts,foreign
exchangeandotheroptioncontracts,foreignexchangeforwardandspotcontracts,andfinancialfutures.
Interestratecontractsenteredintofortradingpurposeshadnotionalvaluesof$12.8billionand
$13.9billionatDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.Thenotionalamountsofforeigncurrencyand

otheroptionandfuturescontractsenteredintofortradingpurposesaggregated$769millionand
$608millionatDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.
147M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
InformationaboutthefairvaluesofderivativeinstrumentsintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalance
sheetandconsolidatedstatementofincomefollows:
2010200920102009
AssetDerivatives
FairValue
December31
LiabilityDerivatives
FairValue
December31
(Inthousands)
Derivativesdesignatedandqualifyingashedging
instruments
Fairvaluehedges:

Interestrateswapagreements(a)
.......................$
96,637$54,486$Š$Š
Commitmentstosellrealestateloans(a)
................
4,8806,0091,062171
101,51760,4951,062171
Derivativesnotdesignatedandqualifyingashedging
instruments
Mortgage-relatedcommitmentstooriginaterealestateloans
forsale(a)
......................................
2,8274,4285834,508
Commitmentstosellrealestateloans(a)
................
10,32213,2931,9621,360
Trading:
Interestratecontracts(b)...
.......................
345,632317,651321,461290,104
Foreignexchangeandotheroptionandfutures
contracts(b)..
................................
11,26711,90811,76112,094
370,048347,280335,767308,066
Totalderivatives...
................................
$471,565$407,775$336,829$308,237
(a)Assetderivativesarereportedinotherassetsandliabilityderivativesarereportedinotherliabilities.
(b)Assetderivativesarereportedintradingaccountassetsandliabilityderivativesarereportedinotherliabilities.
DerivativeHedgedItemDerivativeHedgedItemDerivativeHedgedItem
YearEnded
December31,2010
YearEnded
December31,2009
YearEnded
December31,2008
AmountofUnrealizedGain(Loss)Recognized
(Inthousands)
Derivativesinfairvalue
hedgingrelationships
Interestrateswapagreements:

Fixedratetimedeposits(a)....$(503)$503$(1,797)$1,789$883$(895)
Fixedratelong-term
borrowings(a)
...........
41,628(39,802)(91,093)85,679127,563(121,898)
Total..
..................
$41,125$(39,299)$(92,890)$87,468$128,446$(122,793)
Derivativesnotdesignatedas
hedginginstruments
Trading:

Interestratecontracts(b)
.....$
3,760$(3,622)$6,529
Foreignexchangeandother
optionandfutures

contracts(b).
............
(307)337(1,209)
Total..
..................$
3,453$(3,285)$5,320
(a)Reportedasotherrevenuesfromoperations.
(b)Reportedastradingaccountandforeignexchangegains.
148M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
Inaddition,theCompanyalsohascommitmentstosellandcommitmentstooriginateresidential
andcommercialrealestateloans,whichareconsideredderivatives.TheCompanydesignatescertainof
thecommitmentstosellrealestateloansasfairvaluehedgesofrealestateloansheldforsale.The

Companyalsoutilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloanstooffsettheexposuretochangesinthefair
valueofcertaincommitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsale.Asaresultoftheseactivities,net
unrealizedpre-taxgainsrelatedtohedgedloansheldforsale,commitmentstooriginateloansforsale

andcommitmentstosellloanswereapproximately$17millionand$20millionatDecember31,2010
and2009,respectively.Changesinunrealizedgainsandlossesareincludedinmortgagebankingrevenues
and,ingeneral,arerealizedinsubsequentperiodsastherelatedloansaresoldandcommitments

satisfied.Theaggregatefairvalueofderivativefinancialinstrumentsinanetliabilitypositionat
December31,2010forwhichtheCompanywasrequiredtopostcollateralwas$223million.Thefair

valueofcollateralpostedforsuchinstrumentswas$210million.
TheCompany™screditexposurewithrespecttotheestimatedfairvalueasofDecember31,2010
ofinterestrateswapagreementsusedformanaginginterestrateriskhasbeensubstantiallymitigated

throughmasternettingarrangementswithtradingaccountinterestratecontractswiththesame
counterpartiesaswellascounterpartypostingsof$55millionofcollateralwiththeCompany.Trading
accountinterestrateswapagreementsenteredintowithcustomersaresubjecttotheCompany™scredit

standardsandoftencontaincollateralprovisions.
19.Variableinterestentitiesandassetsecuritizations
EffectiveJanuary1,2010,theFinancialAccountingStandardsBoard(ﬁFASBﬂ)amendedaccounting
guidancerelatedtotheconsolidationofvariableinterestentitiestoeliminatethequantitativeapproach
previouslyrequiredfordeterminingtheprimarybeneficiaryofavariableinterestentity.Theamended

guidanceinsteadrequiresareportingentitytoqualitativelyassessthedeterminationoftheprimary
beneficiaryofavariableinterestentitybasedonwhetherthereportingentityhasthepowertodirectthe
activitiesthatmostsignificantlyimpactthevariableinterestentity™seconomicperformanceandhasthe

obligationtoabsorblossesortherighttoreceivebenefitsofthevariableinterestentitythatcould
potentiallybesignificanttothevariableinterestentity.Theamendedguidancerequiresongoing
reassessmentsofwhetherthereportingentityistheprimarybeneficiaryofavariableinterestentity.
AlsoeffectiveJanuary1,2010,theFASBamendedaccountingguidancerelatedtoaccountingfor
transfersoffinancialassetstoeliminatetheexceptionsforqualifyingspecial-purposeentitiesfromthe
consolidationguidanceandtheexceptionthatpermittedsaleaccountingforcertainmortgagesecuritiza-
tionswhenatransferorhasnotsurrenderedcontroloverthetransferredassets.Therecognitionand

measurementprovisionsoftheamendedguidancewererequiredtobeappliedprospectively.Additionally,
beginningJanuary1,2010,theconceptofaqualifyingspecial-purposeentityisnolongerrelevantfor
accountingpurposes.Therefore,formerlyqualifyingspecial-purposeentitieshadtobere-evaluatedfor

consolidationinaccordancewithapplicableconsolidationguidance,includingthenewaccounting
guidancerelatingtotheconsolidationofvariableinterestentitiesdiscussedinthepreviousparagraph.
In2002and2003,theCompanytransferredapproximately$1.9billionofone-to-fourfamily
residentialmortgageloanstoqualifiedspecial-purposetrustsintwonon-recoursesecuritizationtransac-
tions.Inexchangefortheloans,theCompanyreceivedcash,nomorethan88%oftheresulting
securities,andtheservicingrightstotheloans.ThroughDecember31,2009,alloftheretainedsecurities

wereclassifiedasinvestmentsecuritiesavailableforsaleasthequalifiedspecial-purposetrustswerenot
includedintheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialstatements.EffectiveJanuary1,2010,theCompany
determinedthatitwastheprimarybeneficiaryofbothsecuritizationtrustsundertheamended

consolidationrulesconsideringitsroleasserviceranditsretainedsubordinatedinterestsinthetrusts.As
aresult,beginningJanuary1,2010,theCompanyincludedtheone-to-fourfamilyresidentialmortgage
loansthatwereincludedinthetwonon-recoursesecuritizationtransactionsinitsconsolidatedfinancial

statements.TheeffectofthatconsolidationonJanuary1,2010wastoincreaseloansreceivableby
$424million,decreasetheamortizedcostofavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesby$360million(fair
valueof$355million),andincreaseborrowingsby$65million.ThetransitionadjustmentatJanuary1,

2010asaresultoftheCompany™sadoptionofthenewaccountingrequirementswasnotsignificant.In
149M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
thesecondquarterof2010,the2002securitizationtrustwasterminatedastheCompanyexercisedits
righttopurchasetheunderlyingmortgageloanspursuanttotheclean-upcallprovisionsofthequalified
special-purposetrust.AtDecember31,2010,thecarryingvalueoftheloansintheremainingsecuritiza-

tiontrustandtheoutstandingprincipalamountofmortgage-backedsecuritiesissuedbythequalified
special-purposetrustwereeach$265million.Theprincipalamountofsuchsecuritiesheldbythe
Companywas$225million.Theremainderoftheoutstandingmortgage-backedsecuritieswereheldby

partiesunrelatedtoM&T.Becausethetransactionwasnon-recourse,theCompany™smaximumexposure
tolossasaresultofitsassociationwiththetrustatDecember31,2010islimitedtorealizingthe
carryingvalueoftheloanslessthe$40millioncarryingvalueofthemortgage-backedsecurities

outstandingtothirdparties.
In2009and2008,theCompanysecuritizedapproximately$141millionand$875million,
respectively,ofone-to-fourfamilyresidentialmortgageloansinguaranteedmortgagesecuritizationswith

FannieMae.Therewerenosuchsecuritizationsin2010.TheCompanyrecognizednogainorlossonthe
transactionsasitretainedalloftheresultingsecurities.Suchsecuritieswereclassifiedasinvestment
securitiesavailableforsale.TheCompanyexpectsnomaterialcredit-relatedlossesontheretained

securitiesasaresultoftheguaranteesbyFannieMae.
OthervariableinterestentitiesinwhichtheCompanyholdsasignificantvariableinterestare
describedbelow.
Asdescribedinnote9,M&Thasissuedjuniorsubordinateddebenturespayabletovarioustrusts
thathaveissuedCapitalSecurities.M&Townsthecommonsecuritiesofthosetrustentities.The
Companyisnotconsideredtobetheprimarybeneficiaryofthoseentitiesand,accordingly,thetrustsare

notincludedintheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialstatements.AtDecember31,2010and2009,the

CompanyincludedtheJuniorSubordinatedDebenturesasﬁlong-termborrowingsﬂinitsconsolidated
balancesheet.TheCompanyhasrecognized$34millioninotherassetsforitsﬁinvestmentﬂinthe
commonsecuritiesofthetruststhatwillbeconcomitantlyrepaidtoM&Tbytherespectivetrustfrom

theproceedsofM&T™srepaymentofthejuniorsubordinateddebenturesassociatedwithpreferredcapital
securitiesdescribedinnote9.
TheCompanyhasinvestedasalimitedpartnerinvariousrealestatepartnershipsthatcollectively
hadtotalassetsofapproximately$1.1billionand$1.0billionatDecember31,2010and2009,
respectively.Thosepartnershipsgenerallyconstructoracquirepropertiesforwhichtheinvestingpartners
areeligibletoreceivecertainfederalincometaxcreditsinaccordancewithgovernmentguidelines.Such

investmentsmayalsoprovidetaxdeductiblelossestothepartners.Thepartnershipinvestmentsalso
assisttheCompanyinachievingitscommunityreinvestmentinitiatives.Asalimitedpartner,thereisno
recoursetotheCompanybycreditorsofthepartnerships.However,thetaxcreditsthatresultfromthe

Company™sinvestmentsinsuchpartnershipsaregenerallysubjecttorecaptureshouldapartnershipfail
tocomplywiththerespectivegovernmentregulations.TheCompany™smaximumexposuretolossofits
investmentsinsuchpartnershipswas$258million,including$81millionofunfundedcommitments,at

December31,2010and$246million,including$89millionofunfundedcommitments,atDecember31,
2009.TheCompanyhasnotprovidedfinancialorothersupporttothepartnershipsthatwasnot
contractuallyrequired.Managementcurrentlyestimatesthatnomateriallossesareprobableasaresultof

theCompany™sinvolvementwithsuchentities.Inaccordancewiththeaccountingprovisionsforvariable
interestentities,theCompany,initspositionaslimitedpartner,doesnotdirecttheactivitiesthatmost
significantlyimpacttheeconomicperformanceofthepartnershipsand,therefore,thepartnershipentities

arenotincludedintheCompany™sconsolidatedfinancialstatements.
20.Fairvaluemeasurements
GAAPpermitsanentitytochoosetomeasureeligiblefinancialinstrumentsandotheritemsatfairvalue.
TheCompanyhasnotmadeanyfairvalueelectionsatDecember31,2010.
PursuanttoGAAP,fairvalueisdefinedasthepricethatwouldbereceivedtosellanassetorpaid
totransferaliabilityinanorderlytransactionbetweenmarketparticipantsatthemeasurementdate.A
three-levelhierarchyexistsinGAAPforfairvaluemeasurementsbasedupontheinputstothevaluation
ofanassetorliability.
kLevel1ŠValuationisbasedonquotedpricesinactivemarketsforidenticalassetsandliabilities.
150M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
kLevel2ŠValuationisdeterminedfromquotedpricesforsimilarassetsorliabilitiesinactive
markets,quotedpricesforidenticalorsimilarinstrumentsinmarketsthatarenotactiveorby
model-basedtechniquesinwhichallsignificantinputsareobservableinthemarket.
kLevel3ŠValuationisderivedfrommodel-basedandothertechniquesinwhichatleastone
significantinputisunobservableandwhichmaybebasedontheCompany™sownestimatesabout
theassumptionsthatmarketparticipantswouldusetovaluetheassetorliability.
Whenavailable,theCompanyattemptstousequotedmarketpricesinactivemarketstodetermine
fairvalueandclassifiessuchitemsasLevel1orLevel2.Ifquotedmarketpricesinactivemarketsarenot

available,fairvalueisoftendeterminedusingmodel-basedtechniquesincorporatingvariousassumptions
includinginterestrates,prepaymentspeedsandcreditlosses.Assetsandliabilitiesvaluedusingmodel-
basedtechniquesareclassifiedaseitherLevel2orLevel3,dependingonthelowestlevelclassificationof

aninputthatisconsideredsignificanttotheoverallvaluation.Thefollowingisadescriptionofthe
valuationmethodologiesusedfortheCompany™sassetsandliabilitiesthataremeasuredonarecurring
basisatestimatedfairvalue.
Tradingaccountassetsandliabilities
Tradingaccountassetsandliabilitiesconsistprimarilyofinterestrateswapagreementsandforeign
exchangecontractswithcustomerswhorequiresuchserviceswithoffsettingpositionswiththirdparties
tominimizetheCompany™sriskwithrespecttosuchtransactions.TheCompanygenerallydetermines

thefairvalueofitsderivativetradingaccountassetsandliabilitiesusingexternallydevelopedpricing
modelsbasedonmarketobservableinputsandthereforeclassifiessuchvaluationsasLevel2.Mutual
fundsheldinconnectionwithdeferredcompensationarrangementshavebeenclassifiedasLevel1

valuations.Valuationsofinvestmentsinmunicipalandotherbondscangenerallybeobtainedthrough
referencetoquotedpricesinlessactivemarketsforthesameorsimilarsecuritiesorthroughmodel-
basedtechniquesinwhichallsignificantinputsareobservableand,therefore,suchvaluationshavebeen

classifiedasLevel2.
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale
ThemajorityoftheCompany™savailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritieshavebeenvaluedbyreferenceto
pricesforsimilarsecuritiesorthroughmodel-basedtechniquesinwhichallsignificantinputsare

observableand,therefore,suchvaluationshavebeenclassifiedasLevel2.Certaininvestmentsinmutual

fundsandequitysecuritiesareactivelytradedandthereforehavebeenclassifiedasLevel1valuations.
Tradingactivityinprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritieshasbeenlimited.Themarketsfor
suchsecuritiesweregenerallycharacterizedbyasharpreductionofnon-agencymortgage-backed

securitiesissuances,asignificantreductionintradingvolumesandwidebid-askspreads,alldrivenbythe
lackofmarketparticipants.Althoughestimatedpricesweregenerallyobtainedforsuchsecurities,the
Companywassignificantlyrestrictedinthelevelofmarketobservableassumptionsusedinthevaluation

ofitsprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesportfolio.Specifically,marketassumptionsregarding
creditadjustedcashflowsandliquidityinfluencesondiscountratesweredifficulttoobserveatthe
individualbondlevel.Becauseoftheinactivityinthemarketsandthelackofobservablevaluation

inputs,theCompanyhasclassifiedthevaluationofprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesas
Level3.
InApril2009,theFASBissuednewaccountingrulesthatprovidedguidanceforestimatingfair
valuewhenthevolumeandleveloftradingactivityforanassetorliabilityhavesignificantlydecreased.
TheCompanyhasconcludedthattherehasbeenasignificantdeclineinthevolumeandlevelofactivity
inthemarketforprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecurities.Therefore,theCompanysupplementedits

determinationoffairvalueformanyofitsprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesbyobtaining
pricingindicationsfromtwoindependentsourcesatDecember31,2010and2009.However,the
Companycouldnotreadilyascertainthatthebasisofsuchvaluationscouldbeascribedtoorderlyand

observabletradesinthemarketforprivatelyissuedresidentialmortgage-backedsecurities.Asaresult,
theCompanyalsoperformedinternalmodelingtoestimatethecashflowsandfairvalueofprivately
issuedresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritieswithanamortizedcostbasisof$1.5billionatDecember31,

2010and$1.9billionatDecember31,2009.TheCompany™sinternalmodelingtechniquesincluded
151M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
discountingestimatedbond-specificcashflowsusingassumptionsaboutcashflowsassociatedwithloans
underlyingeachofthebonds,includingestimatesaboutthetimingandamountofcreditlossesand
prepayments.Inestimatingthosecashflows,theCompanyusedassumptionsastofuturedelinquency,

defaultsandlossrates,includingassumptionsforfurtherhomepricedepreciation.Differencesbetween
internalmodelvaluationsandexternalpricingindicationsweregenerallyconsideredtobereflectiveof
thelackofliquidityinthemarketforprivatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesgiventhenatureofthe

cashflowmodelingperformedintheCompany™sassessmentofvalue.Todeterminethepointwithinthe
rangeofpotentialvaluesthatwasmostrepresentativeoffairvalueundercurrentmarketconditionsfor
eachofthebonds,theCompanycomputedvaluesbasedonjudgmentallyappliedweightingsofthe

internalmodelvaluationsandtheindicationsobtainedfromtheaverageofthetwoindependentpricing
sources.Weightingsappliedtointernalmodelvaluationsgenerallyrangedfromzeroto40%depending
onbondstructureandcollateraltype,withpricesforbondsinnon-seniortranchesgenerallyreceiving

lowerweightingsontheinternalmodelresultsandseniorbondsreceivingahighermodelweighting.At
December31,2010,weighted-averagerelianceoninternalmodelpricingforthebondsmodeledwas34%
witha66%averageweightingplacedonthevaluesprovidedbytheindependentsources.TheCompany

concludeditsestimateoffairvalueforthe$1.5billionofprivatelyissuedresidentialmortgage-backed
securitiestoapproximate$1.3billion,whichimpliesaweighted-averagemarketyieldbasedonreasonably
likelycashflowsof8.2%.Othervaluationsofprivatelyissuedresidentialmortgage-backedsecuritieswere

determinedbyreferencetoindependentpricingsourceswithoutadjustment.
Includedincollateralizeddebtobligationsaresecuritiesbackedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesissued
byfinancialinstitutionsandotherentities.Giventheseveredisruptioninthecreditmarketsandlackof

observabletradeinformation,theCompanycouldnotobtainpricingindicationsformanyofthese

securitiesfromitstwoprimaryindependentpricingsources.TheCompany,therefore,performedinternal
modelingtoestimatethecashflowsandfairvalueofitsportfolioofsecuritiesbackedbytrustpreferred
securitiesatDecember31,2010and2009.Themodelingtechniquesincludeddiscountingestimatedcash

flowsusingbond-specificassumptionsaboutdefaults,deferralsandprepaymentsofthetrustpreferred
securitiesunderlyingeachbond.Theestimationofcashflowsincludedassumptionsastofuturecollateral
defaultsandrelatedlossseverities.Theresultingcashflowswerethendiscountedbyreferencetomarket

yieldsobservedinthesingle-nametrustpreferredsecuritiesmarket.AtDecember31,2010,thetotal
amortizedcostandfairvalueofsecuritiesbackedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancial
institutionsandotherentitieswere$95millionand$111million,respectively,andatDecember31,2009

were$103millionand$115million,respectively.Privatelyissuedmortgage-backedsecuritiesand
securitiesbackedbytrustpreferredsecuritiesissuedbyfinancialinstitutionsandotherentitiesconstituted
alloftheavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesclassifiedasLevel3valuationsasofDecember31,2010

and2009.
Realestateloansheldforsale
TheCompanyutilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloanstohedgetheexposuretochangesinfair

valueofrealestateloansheldforsale.Thecarryingvalueofhedgedrealestateloansheldforsale

includeschangesinestimatedfairvalueduringthehedgeperiod.Typically,theCompanyattemptsto
hedgerealestateloansheldforsalefromthedateofclosethroughthesaledate.Thefairvalueofhedged
realestateloansheldforsaleisgenerallycalculatedbyreferencetoquotedpricesinsecondarymarkets

forcommitmentstosellrealestateloanswithsimilarcharacteristicsand,accordingly,suchloanshave
beenclassifiedasaLevel2valuation.
Commitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsaleandcommitmentstosellrealestateloans
TheCompanyentersintovariouscommitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsaleandcommitments
tosellrealestateloans.Suchcommitmentsareconsideredtobederivativefinancialinstrumentsand,
therefore,arecarriedatestimatedfairvalueontheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Theestimatedfairvalues

ofsuchcommitmentsweregenerallycalculatedbyreferencetoquotedpricesinsecondarymarketsfor
commitmentstosellrealestateloanstocertaingovernment-sponsoredentitiesandotherparties.Thefair
valuationsofcommitmentstosellrealestateloansgenerallyresultinaLevel2classification.The

estimatedfairvalueofcommitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsaleareadjustedtoreflectthe
152M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
Company™santicipatedcommitmentexpirations.Estimatedcommitmentexpirationsareconsidereda
significantunobservableinput,whichresultsinaLevel3classification.TheCompanyincludesthe
expectednetfuturecashflowsrelatedtotheassociatedservicingoftheloaninthefairvalue

measurementofaderivativeloancommitment.Theestimatedvalueascribedtotheexpectednetfuture
servicingcashflowsisalsoconsideredasignificantunobservableinputcontributingtotheLevel3
classificationofcommitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsale.
Interestrateswapagreementsusedforinterestrateriskmanagement
TheCompanyutilizesinterestrateswapagreementsaspartofthemanagementofinterestrateriskto

modifytherepricingcharacteristicsofcertainportionsofitsportfoliosofearningassetsandinterest-
bearingliabilities.TheCompanygenerallydeterminesthefairvalueofitsinterestrateswapagreements
usingexternallydevelopedpricingmodelsbasedonmarketobservableinputsandthereforeclassifiessuch

valuationsasLevel2.TheCompanyhasconsideredcounterpartycreditriskinthevaluationofitsinterest
rateswapassetsandhasconsidereditsowncreditriskinthevaluationofitsinterestrateswapliabilities.
ThefollowingtablespresentassetsandliabilitiesatDecember31,2010andDecember31,2009
measuredatestimatedfairvalueonarecurringbasis:
FairValue
Measurementsat
December31,
2010Level1(a)Level2(a)Level3
(Inthousands)
Tradingaccountassets....
......................$
523,83453,032470,802Š
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
...............
63,434Š63,434Š
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions
......60,425Š60,425Š
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed..
...........
3,306,241Š3,306,241Š
Privatelyissuedresidential...
................
1,435,561ŠŠ1,435,561
Privatelyissuedcommercial..
................
22,407ŠŠ22,407
Collateralizeddebtobligations..
................
110,756ŠŠ110,756
Otherdebtsecurities...
......................
298,900Š298,900Š
Equitysecurities..
...........................
115,768106,8728,896Š
5,413,492106,8723,737,8961,568,724
Realestateloansheldforsale
....................
544,567Š544,567Š
Otherassets(b)....
...........................
114,666Š111,8392,827
Totalassets.....
...........................
$6,596,559159,9044,865,1041,571,551
Tradingaccountliabilities.
......................$
333,222Š333,222Š
Otherliabilities(b)..
...........................
3,607Š3,024583
Totalliabilities...
...........................$
336,829Š336,246583
153M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
FairValue
Measurementsat
December31,
2009Level1Level2Level3
(Inthousands)
Tradingaccountassets
..........................$
386,98440,836346,148Š
Investmentsecuritiesavailableforsale:
U.S.Treasuryandfederalagencies
...............
104,686Š104,686Š
Obligationsofstatesandpoliticalsubdivisions..
....62,923Š62,923Š
Mortgage-backedsecurities:
Governmentissuedorguaranteed
..............
3,902,282Š3,902,282Š
Privatelyissuedresidential
...................
2,064,904ŠŠ2,064,904
Privatelyissuedcommercial...
...............
25,166ŠŠ25,166
Collateralizeddebtobligations...
...............
115,346ŠŠ115,346
Otherdebtsecurities
..........................
268,201Š267,781420
Equitysecurities...
..........................
160,870145,81715,053Š
6,704,378145,8174,352,7252,205,836
Realestateloansheldforsale.
....................
652,761Š652,761Š
Otherassets(b).
...............................
78,216Š73,7884,428
Totalassets..
...............................
$7,822,339186,6535,425,4222,210,264
Tradingaccountliabilities....
....................$
302,1985,577296,621Š
Otherliabilities(b)...
..........................
6,039Š1,5314,508
Totalliabilities
..............................$
308,2375,577298,1524,508
(a)TherewerenosignificanttransfersbetweenLevel1andLevel2ofthefairvaluehierarchyduringtheyear
endedDecember31,2010.
(b)Comprisedpredominantlyofinterestrateswapagreementsusedforinterestrateriskmanagement(Level2),
commitmentstosellrealestateloans(Level2)andcommitmentstooriginaterealestateloanstobeheldfor

sale(Level3).
154M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
ThechangesinLevel3assetsandliabilitiesmeasuredatestimatedfairvalueonarecurringbasis
duringtheyearendedDecember31,2010wereasfollows:
Balance-
January1,
2010IncludedinEarnings
Includedin
OtherComprehensiveIncomeSettlements
Transferin
and/oroutof
Level3(c)
Balance-December31,
2010Changesin
UnrealizedGains
(Losses)Included
inEarningsRelated
toAssetsStill
Heldat
December31,
2010TotalGains(Losses)
Realized/Unrealized
(Inthousands)
Investmentsecurities
availableforsale:
Privatelyissuedresidential
mortgage-backed

securities..........
$2,064,904(63,503)(a)176,140(386,732)(355,248)(d)1,435,561(63,503)(a)
Privatelyissued
commercialmortgage-
backedsecurities.....25,166Š5,462(8,221)Š22,407Š
Collateralizeddebt
obligations...
......
115,346(5,703)(a)2,887(1,774)Š110,756(5,703)(a)
Otherdebtsecurities....420Š35Š(455)ŠŠ
2,205,836(69,206)184,524(396,727)(355,703)1,568,724(69,206)
Otherassetsandother
liabilities.
..........
(80)95,661(b)ŠŠ(93,337)2,2442,153(b)
ThechangesinLevel3assetsandliabilitiesmeasuredatestimatedfairvalueonarecurringbasis
duringtheyearendedDecember31,2009wereasfollows:
Balance-January1,
2009IncludedinEarnings
Includedin
OtherComprehensiveIncomePurchases,Sales,
Issuances&
SettlementsTransferin
and/oroutof
Level3(c)
Balance-December31,
2009Changesin
UnrealizedGains
(Losses)Included
inEarningsRelated
toAssetsStill
Heldat
December31,
2009TotalGains(Losses)
Realized/Unrealized
(Inthousands)
Investmentsecurities
availableforsale:
U.S.Treasuryand
federalagencies...$5,532ŠŠŠ(5,532)ŠŠ
Obligationsofstates
andpolitical
subdivisions.
....38Š224(9)
(253)ŠŠ
Governmentissuedor
guaranteedmortgage-backed
securities...
....84,544ŠŠŠ(84,544)ŠŠ
Privatelyissued
residential
mortgage-backed
securities...
....2,326,554(128,374)(a)421,150(554,426)Š2,064,904(128,374)(a)
Privatelyissued
commercial
mortgage-backed
securities...
....41,046Š(6,853)(9,027)Š25,166Š
Collateralizeddebt
obligations..
....2,496(9,568)(a)19,770102,648Š115,346(9,923)(a)
Otherdebt
securities...
....ŠŠ145725
(450)420Š
Equitysecurities
....2,302Š2(12)(2,292)ŠŠ
2,462,512(137,942)434,438(460,101)(93,071)2,205,836(138,297)
Otherassetsand
otherliabilities...8,26634,400(b)ŠŠ(42,746)(80)2,465(b)
155M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
ThechangesinLevel3assetsandliabilitiesmeasuredatestimatedfairvalueonarecurringbasis
duringtheyearendedDecember31,2008wereasfollows:
Balance-January1,
2008IncludedinEarnings
Includedin
OtherComprehensiveIncomePurchases,Sales,
Issuances&
SettlementsTransferin
and/oroutof
Level3
Balance-December31,
2008Changesin
UnrealizedGains
(Losses)Included
inEarningsRelated
toAssetsStill
Heldat
December31,
2008TotalGains(Losses)
Realized/Unrealized
(Inthousands)
Investmentsecurities
availableforsale:
U.S.Treasuryand
federalagencies...$5,696Š364(528)Š5,532Š
Obligationsofstates
andpolitical

subdivisions.
....50Š(5)(7)Š38Š
Governmentissuedor
guaranteed
mortgage-backed
securities...
....118,992Š878(6,390)(28,936)84,544Š
Privatelyissued
residentialand

commercial
mortgage-backed
securities...
....1,159,644(12,483)(a)(408,211)(236,669)1,865,3192,367,600(12,483)(a)
Collateralizeddebt
obligations..
....27,115(11,413)(a)(13,232)Š262,496(11,413)(a)
Equitysecurities
....2,324Š(9)(13)Š2,302Š
1,313,821(23,896)(420,215)(243,607)1,836,4092,462,512(23,896)
Otherassetsand
otherliabilities...2,65431,356(b)ŠŠ(25,744)8,2668,266(b)
(a)Reportedasanother-than-temporaryimpairmentlossintheconsolidatedstatementofincomeorasgain
(loss)onbankinvestmentsecurities.
(b)Reportedasmortgagebankingrevenuesintheconsolidatedstatementofincomeandincludesthefairvalueof
commitmentissuancesandexpirations.
(c)TheCompany™spolicyfortransfersbetweenfairvaluelevelsistorecognizethetransferasoftheactualdate
oftheeventorchangeincircumstancesthatcausedthetransfer.
(d)AsaresultoftheCompany™sadoptionofnewaccountingrulesgoverningtheconsolidationofvariableinterest
entities,effectiveJanuary1,2010theCompanyderecognized$355millionofavailable-for-saleinvestment

securitiespreviouslyclassifiedasLevel3measurements.FurtherinformationregardingtheCompany™sadop-
tionofnewaccountingrequirementsisincludedinnote19.
TheCompanyisrequired,onanonrecurringbasis,toadjustthecarryingvalueofcertainassetsor
providevaluationallowancesrelatedtocertainassetsusingfairvaluemeasurements.Themoresignificant
ofthoseassetsfollow.
LoansLoansaregenerallynotrecordedatfairvalueonarecurringbasis.Periodically,theCompanyrecords
nonrecurringadjustmentstothecarryingvalueofloansbasedonfairvaluemeasurementsforpartial

charge-offsoftheuncollectibleportionsofthoseloans.Nonrecurringadjustmentsalsoincludecertain
impairmentamountsforcollateral-dependentloanswhenestablishingtheallowanceforcreditlosses.
Suchamountsaregenerallybasedonthefairvalueoftheunderlyingcollateralsupportingtheloanand,

asaresult,thecarryingvalueoftheloanlessthecalculatedvaluationamountdoesnotnecessarily
representthefairvalueoftheloan.Realestatecollateralistypicallyvaluedusingappraisalsorother
indicationsofvaluebasedonrecentcomparablesalesofsimilarpropertiesorassumptionsgenerally

observableinthemarketplaceandtherelatednonrecurringfairvaluemeasurementadjustmentshave
156M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
generallybeenclassifiedasLevel2,unlesssignificantadjustmentshavebeenmadetothevaluationthat
arenotreadilyobservablebymarketparticipants.Estimatesoffairvalueusedforothercollateral
supportingcommercialloansgenerallyarebasedonassumptionsnotobservableinthemarketplaceand

thereforesuchvaluationshavebeenclassifiedasLevel3.Loanssubjecttononrecurringfairvalue
measurementwere$746millionatDecember31,2010,($476millionand$270millionofwhichwere
classifiedasLevel2andLevel3,respectively)and$901millionatDecember31,2009($547millionand

$354millionofwhichwereclassifiedasLevel2andLevel3,respectively).Changesinfairvalue
recognizedforpartialcharge-offsofloansandloanimpairmentreservesonloansheldbytheCompany
onDecember31,2010weredecreasesof$224millionfortheyearendedDecember31,2010,andon

loansheldbytheCompanyonDecember31,2009weredecreasesof$343millionfortheyearended
December31,2009
Capitalizedservicingrights
CapitalizedservicingrightsareinitiallymeasuredatfairvalueintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalance

sheet.TheCompanyutilizestheamortizationmethodtosubsequentlymeasureitscapitalizedservicing
assets.InaccordancewithGAAP,theCompanymustrecordimpairmentcharges,onanonrecurring
basis,whenthecarryingvalueofcertainstrataexceedtheirestimatedfairvalue.Toestimatethefairvalue

ofservicingrights,theCompanyconsidersmarketpricesforsimilarassets,ifavailable,andthepresent
valueofexpectedfuturecashflowsassociatedwiththeservicingrightscalculatedusingassumptionsthat
marketparticipantswoulduseinestimatingfutureservicingincomeandexpense.Suchassumptions

includeestimatesofthecostofservicingloans,loandefaultrates,anappropriatediscountrate,and
prepaymentspeeds.Forpurposesofevaluatingandmeasuringimpairmentofcapitalizedservicingrights,
theCompanystratifiessuchassetsbasedonthepredominantriskcharacteristicsoftheunderlying

financialinstrumentsthatareexpectedtohavethemostimpactonprojectedprepayments,costof

servicingandotherfactorsaffectingfuturecashflowsassociatedwiththeservicingrights.Suchfactors
mayincludefinancialassetorloantype,noterateandterm.Theamountofimpairmentrecognizedis
theamountbywhichthecarryingvalueofthecapitalizedservicingrightsforastratumexceedestimated

fairvalue.Impairmentisrecognizedthroughavaluationallowance.Thedeterminationoffairvalueof
capitalizedservicingrightsisconsideredaLevel3valuation.Therewerenochangesinthefairvalueof
capitalizedservicingrightsrecognizedfortheyearendedDecember31,2010.AtDecember31,2010and

December31,2009,nostratumofcapitalizedservicingrightshadacarryingvalueequaltoitsfairvalue.
ChangesinfairvalueofcapitalizedservicingrightsrecognizedfortheyearendedDecember31,2009
reflectedincreasesinfairvalueof$22million.
Assetstakeninforeclosureofdefaultedloans
Assetstakeninforeclosureofdefaultedloansareprimarilycomprisedofcommercialandresidentialreal
propertyandaregenerallymeasuredatthelowerofcostorfairvaluelesscoststosell.Thefairvalueof
therealpropertyisgenerallydeterminedusingappraisalsorotherindicationsofvaluebasedonrecent

comparablesalesofsimilarpropertiesorassumptionsgenerallyobservableinthemarketplace,andthe
relatednonrecurringfairvaluemeasurementadjustmentshavegenerallybeenclassifiedasLevel2.Assets
takeninforeclosureofdefaultedloanssubjecttononrecurringfairvaluemeasurementwere$176million

and$43millionatDecember31,2010andDecember31,2009,respectively.Changesinfairvalue
recognizedforthoseforeclosedassetsheldbytheCompanyatDecember31,2010were$37millionfor
theyearendedDecember31,2010.Changesinfairvaluerecognizedforthoseforeclosedassetsheldby

theCompanyatDecember31,2009were$24millionfortheyearendedDecember31,2009.
Disclosuresoffairvalueoffinancialinstruments
Withtheexceptionofmarketablesecurities,certainoff-balancesheetfinancialinstrumentsand
one-to-fourfamilyresidentialmortgageloansoriginatedforsale,theCompany™sfinancialinstruments

arenotreadilymarketableandmarketpricesdonotexist.TheCompany,inattemptingtocomplywith
theprovisionsofGAAPthatrequiredisclosuresoffairvalueoffinancialinstruments,hasnotattempted
tomarketitsfinancialinstrumentstopotentialbuyers,ifanyexist.Sincenegotiatedpricesinilliquid

marketsdependgreatlyuponthethenpresentmotivationsofthebuyerandseller,itisreasonableto
157M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
assumethatactualsalespricescouldvarywidelyfromanyestimateoffairvaluemadewithoutthe
benefitofnegotiations.Additionally,changesinmarketinterestratescandramaticallyimpactthevalue
offinancialinstrumentsinashortperiodoftime.Additionalinformationabouttheassumptionsand

calculationsutilizedfollows.
Thecarryingamountsandestimatedfairvalueforfinancialinstrumentassets(liabilities)are
presentedinthefollowingtable:
Carrying
AmountCalculatedEstimateCarrying
AmountCalculatedEstimateDecember31,2010December31,2009
(Inthousands)
Financialassets:
Cashandcashequivalents.
.............$
933,755$933,755$1,246,342$1,246,342
Interest-bearingdepositsatbanks.
.......
101,222101,222133,335133,335
Tradingaccountassets
.................
523,834523,834386,984386,984
Investmentsecurities
..................
7,150,5407,051,4547,780,6097,629,485
Loansandleases:
Commercialloansandleases...
.......
13,390,61013,135,56913,479,44713,090,206
Commercialrealestateloans...
.......
21,183,16120,840,34620,949,93120,426,273
Residentialrealestateloans
...........
5,928,0565,699,0285,463,4635,058,763
Consumerloans.
..................
11,488,55511,178,58312,043,84511,575,525
Allowanceforcreditlosses
............
(902,941)Š(878,022)Š
Loansandleases,net.
.............
51,087,44150,853,52651,058,66450,150,767
Accruedinterestreceivable
.............
202,182202,182214,692214,692
Financialliabilities:
Noninterest-bearingdeposits
............
$(14,557,568)$(14,557,568)$(13,794,636)$(13,794,636)
SavingsdepositsandNOWaccounts
......
(27,824,630)(27,824,630)(25,073,269)(25,073,269)
Timedeposits.....
..................
(5,817,170)(5,865,779)(7,531,495)(7,592,214)
DepositsatCaymanIslandsoffice.
.......
(1,605,916)(1,605,916)(1,050,438)(1,050,438)
Short-termborrowings...
.............
(947,432)(947,432)(2,442,582)(2,442,582)
Long-termborrowings
.................
(7,840,151)(7,937,397)(10,240,016)(9,822,153)
Accruedinterestpayable..
.............
(71,954)(71,954)(94,838)(94,838)
Tradingaccountliabilities.
.............
(333,222)(333,222)(302,198)(302,198)
Otherfinancialinstruments:
Commitmentstooriginaterealestateloans
forsale........
..................$
2,244$2,244$(80)$(80)
Commitmentstosellrealestateloans.....12,17812,17817,77117,771

Othercredit-relatedcommitments.
.......
(74,426)(74,426)(55,954)(55,954)
Interestrateswapagreementsusedfor
interestrateriskmanagement..
.......
96,63796,63754,48654,486
Thefollowingassumptions,methodsandcalculationswereusedindeterminingtheestimatedfair
valueoffinancialinstrumentsnotmeasuredatfairvalueintheconsolidatedbalancesheet.
Cashandcashequivalents,interest-bearingdepositsatbanks,short-termborrowings,accruedinterest
receivableandaccruedinterestpayable
Duetothenatureofcashandcashequivalentsandthenearmaturityofinterest-bearingdepositsat
banks,short-termborrowings,accruedinterestreceivableandaccruedinterestpayable,theCompany

estimatedthatthecarryingamountofsuchinstrumentsapproximatedestimatedfairvalue.
158M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
Investmentsecurities
Estimatedfairvaluesofinvestmentsinreadilymarketablesecuritiesweregenerallybasedonquoted
marketprices.Investmentsecuritiesthatwerenotreadilymarketablewereassignedamountsbasedon

estimatesprovidedbyoutsidepartiesormodelingtechniquesthatreliedupondiscountedcalculationsof
projectedcashflowsor,inthecaseofotherinvestmentsecurities,whichincludecapitalstockofthe
FederalReserveBankofNewYorkandtheFederalHomeLoanBankofNewYork,atanamountequal

tothecarryingamount.
Loansandleases
Ingeneral,discountratesusedtocalculatevaluesforloanproductswerebasedontheCompany™spricing
attherespectiveperiodend.Ahigherdiscountratewasassumedwithrespecttoestimatedcashflows
associatedwithnonaccrualloans.Projectedloancashflowswereadjustedforestimatedcreditlosses.

However,suchestimatesmadebytheCompanymaynotbeindicativeofassumptionsandadjustments

thatapurchaseroftheCompany™sloansandleaseswouldseek.
DepositsPursuanttoGAAP,theestimatedfairvalueascribedtononinterest-bearingdeposits,savingsdepositsand
NOWaccountsmustbeestablishedatcarryingvaluebecauseofthecustomers™abilitytowithdrawfunds
immediately.Timedepositaccountsarerequiredtoberevaluedbaseduponprevailingmarketinterest

ratesforsimilarmaturityinstruments.Asaresult,amountsassignedtotimedepositswerebasedon
discountedcashflowcalculationsusingprevailingmarketinterestratesbasedontheCompany™spricing
attherespectivedatefordepositswithcomparableremainingtermstomaturity.
TheCompanybelievesthatdepositaccountshaveavaluegreaterthanthatprescribedbyGAAP.
TheCompanyfeels,however,thatthevalueassociatedwiththesedepositsisgreatlyinfluencedby
characteristicsofthebuyer,suchastheabilitytoreducethecostsofservicingthedepositsanddeposit

attritionwhichoftenoccursfollowinganacquisition.
Long-termborrowings
Theamountsassignedtolong-termborrowingswerebasedonquotedmarketprices,whenavailable,or

werebasedondiscountedcashflowcalculationsusingprevailingmarketinterestratesforborrowingsof
similartermsandcreditrisk.
Commitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsaleandcommitmentstosellrealestateloans
TheCompanyentersintovariouscommitmentstooriginaterealestateloansforsaleandcommitments
tosellrealestateloans.Suchcommitmentsareconsideredtobederivativefinancialinstrumentsand,

therefore,arecarriedatestimatedfairvalueontheconsolidatedbalancesheet.Theestimatedfairvalues
ofsuchcommitmentsweregenerallycalculatedbyreferencetoquotedmarketpricesforcommitmentsto
sellrealestateloanstocertaingovernment-sponsoredentitiesandotherparties.
Interestrateswapagreementsusedforinterestrateriskmanagement
Theestimatedfairvalueofinterestrateswapagreementsusedforinterestrateriskmanagement
representstheamounttheCompanywouldhaveexpectedtoreceiveorpaytoterminatesuch

agreements.
Othercommitmentsandcontingencies
Asdescribedinnote21,inthenormalcourseofbusiness,variouscommitmentsandcontingentliabilities
areoutstanding,suchasloancommitments,creditguaranteesandlettersofcredit.TheCompany™s
pricingofsuchfinancialinstrumentsisbasedlargelyoncreditqualityandrelationship,probabilityof

fundingandotherrequirements.Loancommitmentsoftenhavefixedexpirationdatesandcontain
terminationandotherclauseswhichprovideforrelieffromfundingintheeventofsignificant
deteriorationinthecreditqualityofthecustomer.TheratesandtermsoftheCompany™sloan

commitments,creditguaranteesandlettersofcreditarecompetitivewithotherfinancialinstitutions
159M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
operatinginmarketsservedbytheCompany.TheCompanybelievesthatthecarryingamounts,which
areincludedinotherliabilities,arereasonableestimatesofthefairvalueofthesefinancialinstruments.
TheCompanydoesnotbelievethattheestimatedinformationpresentedhereinisrepresentative
oftheearningspowerorvalueoftheCompany.Theprecedinganalysis,whichisinherentlylimitedin
depictingfairvalue,alsodoesnotconsideranyvalueassociatedwithexistingcustomerrelationshipsnor
theabilityoftheCompanytocreatevaluethroughloanorigination,depositgatheringorfeegenerating

activities.
Manyoftheestimatespresentedhereinarebasedupontheuseofhighlysubjectiveinformation
andassumptionsand,accordingly,theresultsmaynotbeprecise.Managementbelievesthatfairvalue

estimatesmaynotbecomparablebetweenfinancialinstitutionsduetothewiderangeofpermitted
valuationtechniquesandnumerousestimateswhichmustbemade.Furthermore,becausethedisclosed
fairvalueamountswereestimatedasofthebalancesheetdate,theamountsactuallyrealizedorpaid

uponmaturityorsettlementofthevariousfinancialinstrumentscouldbesignificantlydifferent.
21.Commitmentsandcontingencies
Inthenormalcourseofbusiness,variouscommitmentsandcontingentliabilitiesareoutstanding.The
followingtablepresentstheCompany™ssignificantcommitments.Certainofthesecommitmentsarenot
includedintheCompany™sconsolidatedbalancesheet.
20102009
December31
(Inthousands)
Commitmentstoextendcredit
Homeequitylinesofcredit..
.......................................
$6,281,366$6,482,987
Commercialrealestateloanstobesold....
............................
72,930180,498
Othercommercialrealestateandconstruction
...........................
1,672,0061,360,805
Residentialrealestateloanstobesold
.................................
161,583631,090
Otherresidentialrealestate..
.......................................
151,111127,788
Commercialandother.
............................................
8,332,1997,155,188
Standbylettersofcredit..
............................................
3,917,3183,828,586
Commerciallettersofcredit...
.......................................
76,96266,377
Financialguaranteesandindemnificationcontracts..
.......................
1,609,9441,633,549
Commitmentstosellrealestateloans..
.................................
734,6961,239,001
Commitmentstoextendcreditareagreementstolendtocustomers,generallyhavingfixed
expirationdatesorotherterminationclausesthatmayrequirepaymentofafee.Standbyandcommercial

lettersofcreditareconditionalcommitmentsissuedtoguaranteetheperformanceofacustomertoa
thirdparty.Standbylettersofcreditgenerallyarecontingentuponthefailureofthecustomertoperform
accordingtothetermsoftheunderlyingcontractwiththethirdparty,whereascommerciallettersof

creditareissuedtofacilitatecommerceandtypicallyresultinthecommitmentbeingfundedwhenthe
underlyingtransactionisconsummatedbetweenthecustomerandthirdparty.Thecreditriskassociated
withcommitmentstoextendcreditandstandbyandcommerciallettersofcreditisessentiallythesame

asthatinvolvedwithextendingloanstocustomersandissubjecttonormalcreditpolicies.Collateral
maybeobtainedbasedonmanagement™sassessmentofthecustomer™screditworthiness.
Financialguaranteesandindemnificationcontractsareoftentimessimilartostandbylettersof
creditandincludemandatorypurchaseagreementsissuedtoensurethatcustomerobligationsare
fulfilled,recourseobligationsassociatedwithsoldloans,andotherguaranteesofcustomerperformance
orcompliancewithdesignatedrulesandregulations.Includedinfinancialguaranteesandindemnifica-

tioncontractsareloanprincipalamountssoldwithrecourseinconjunctionwiththeCompany™s
involvementintheFannieMaeDUSprogram.TheCompany™smaximumcreditriskforrecourse
associatedwithloanssoldunderthisprogramtotaledapproximately$1.6billionand$1.3billionat

December31,2010and2009,respectively.
160M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
Sincemanyloancommitments,standbylettersofcredit,andguaranteesandindemnification
contractsexpirewithoutbeingfundedinwholeorinpart,thecontractamountsarenotnecessarily
indicativeoffuturecashflows.
TheCompanyutilizescommitmentstosellrealestateloanstohedgeexposuretochangesinthe
fairvalueofrealestateloansheldforsale.Suchcommitmentsareconsideredderivativesandalongwith
commitmentstooriginaterealestateloanstobeheldforsalearegenerallyrecordedintheconsolidated
balancesheetatestimatedfairmarketvalue.
TheCompanyoccupiescertainbankingofficesandusescertainequipmentundernoncancellable
operatingleaseagreementsexpiringatvariousdatesoverthenext29years.Minimumleasepayments
undernoncancellableoperatingleasesaresummarizedinthefollowingtable:
(Inthousands)
YearendingDecember31:
2011....................................................................$
78,3252012....................................................................
75,0332013....................................................................
60,7122014....................................................................
50,4932015....................................................................
42,741Lateryears....
...........................................................
137,592$444,896TheCompanyhasanagreementwiththeBaltimoreRavensoftheNationalFootballLeague
wherebytheCompanyobtainedthenamingrightstoafootballstadiuminBaltimore,Maryland.Under
theagreement,theCompanyisobligatedtopay$5millionperyearthrough2013and$6millionper

yearfrom2014through2017.
TheCompanyreinsurescreditlifeandaccidentandhealthinsurancepurchasedbyconsumerloan
customers.TheCompanyalsoentersintoreinsurancecontractswiththirdpartyinsurancecompanies
whoinsureagainsttheriskofamortgageborrower™spaymentdefaultinconnectionwithcertain

mortgageloansoriginatedbytheCompany.Whenprovidingreinsurancecoverage,theCompanyreceives

apremiuminexchangeforacceptingaportionoftheinsurer™sriskofloss.Theoutstandingloan
principalbalancesreinsuredbytheCompanywereapproximately$85millionatDecember31,2010.
Assetsofsubsidiariesprovidingreinsurancethatareavailabletosatisfyclaimstotaledapproximately

$71millionatDecember31,2010.Theamountsnotedabovearenotnecessarilyindicativeoflosses

whichmayultimatelybeincurred.Suchlossesareexpectedtobesubstantiallylessbecausemostloansare
repaidbyborrowersinaccordancewiththeoriginalloanterms.Managementbelievesthatanyreinsur-
ancelossesthatmaybepayablebytheCompanywillnotbematerialtotheCompany™sconsolidated

financialposition.
TheCompanyiscontractuallyobligatedtorepurchasepreviouslysoldresidentialrealestateloans
thatdonotultimatelymeetinvestorsalecriteriarelatedtounderwritingproceduresorloandocumenta-
tion.Whenrequiredtodoso,theCompanymayreimburseloanpurchasersforlossesincurredormay

repurchasecertainloans.TheCompanyreducesresidentialmortgagebankingrevenuesbyanestimatefor

lossesrelatedtoitsobligationstoloanpurchasers.Theamountofthosechargesisbasedonthevolume
ofloanssold,thelevelofreimbursementrequestsreceivedfromloanpurchasersandestimatesoflosses
thatmaybeassociatedwithpreviouslysoldloans.AtDecember31,2010,managementbelievesthatany

remainingliabilityarisingoutoftheCompany™sobligationtoloanpurchasersisnotmaterialtothe

Company™sconsolidatedfinancialposition.
M&Tanditssubsidiariesaresubjectinthenormalcourseofbusinesstovariouspendingand
threatenedlegalproceedingsinwhichclaimsformonetarydamagesareasserted.Management,after

consultationwithlegalcounsel,doesnotanticipatethattheaggregateultimateliabilityarisingoutof
litigationpendingagainstM&ToritssubsidiarieswillbematerialtotheCompany™sconsolidated
financialposition,butatthepresenttimeisnotinapositiontodeterminewhethersuchlitigationwill

haveamaterialadverseeffectontheCompany™sconsolidatedresultsofoperationsinanyfuturereporting

period.161M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
22.Segmentinformation
ReportablesegmentshavebeendeterminedbasedupontheCompany™sinternalprofitabilityreporting
system,whichisorganizedbystrategicbusinessunit.Certainstrategicbusinessunitshavebeencombined

forsegmentinformationreportingpurposeswherethenatureoftheproductsandservices,thetypeof
customerandthedistributionofthoseproductsandservicesaresimilar.Thereportablesegmentsare
BusinessBanking,CommercialBanking,CommercialRealEstate,DiscretionaryPortfolio,Residential

MortgageBankingandRetailBanking.
ThefinancialinformationoftheCompany™ssegmentshasbeencompiledutilizingtheaccounting
policiesdescribedinnote1withcertainexceptions.Themoresignificantoftheseexceptionsare

describedherein.TheCompanyallocatesinterestincomeorinterestexpenseusingamethodologythat
chargesusersoffunds(assets)interestexpenseandcreditsprovidersoffunds(liabilities)withincome
basedonthematurity,prepaymentand/orrepricingcharacteristicsoftheassetsandliabilities.Thenet

effectofthisallocationisrecordedintheﬁAllOtherﬂcategory.Aprovisionforcreditlossesisallocated
tosegmentsinanamountbasedlargelyonactualnetcharge-offsincurredbythesegmentduringthe
periodplusorminusanamountnecessarytoadjustthesegment™sallowanceforcreditlossesdueto

changesinloanbalances.Incontrast,theleveloftheconsolidatedprovisionforcreditlossesis
determinedusingthemethodologiesdescribedinnote1toassesstheoveralladequacyoftheallowance
forcreditlosses.Indirectfixedandvariableexpensesincurredbycertaincentralizedsupportareasare

allocatedtosegmentsbasedonactualusage(forexample,volumemeasurements)andothercriteria.
Certaintypesofadministrativeexpensesandbankwideexpenseaccruals(includingamortizationofcore
depositandotherintangibleassetsassociatedwithacquisitionsoffinancialinstitutions)aregenerallynot

allocatedtosegments.IncometaxesareallocatedtosegmentsbasedontheCompany™smarginalstatutory

taxrateadjustedforanytax-exemptincomeornon-deductibleexpenses.Equityisallocatedtothe
segmentsbasedonregulatorycapitalrequirementsandinproportiontoanassessmentoftheinherent
risksassociatedwiththebusinessofthesegment(includinginterest,creditandoperatingrisk).
Themanagementaccountingpoliciesandprocessesutilizedincompilingsegmentfinancial
informationarehighlysubjectiveand,unlikefinancialaccounting,arenotbasedonauthoritative
guidancesimilartoGAAP.Asaresult,reportedsegmentresultsarenotnecessarilycomparablewith

similarinformationreportedbyotherfinancialinstitutions.Furthermore,changesinmanagement
structureorallocationmethodologiesandproceduresmayresultinchangesinreportedsegmentfinancial
data.InformationabouttheCompany™ssegmentsispresentedintheaccompanyingtable.Income

statementamountsareinthousandsofdollars.Balancesheetamountsareinmillionsofdollars.
201020092008201020092008201020092008201020092008
BusinessBankingCommercialBankingCommercialRealEstateDiscretionaryPortfolio
FortheYearsEndedDecember31,2010,2009and2008
Netinterestincome(a)........$315,407$321,208$288,519$582,231$531,592$433,238$384,147$346,513$287,727$23,347$137,507$144,856
Noninterestincome.
.........
95,44389,04386,293217,368192,979197,51585,20065,22463,288(34,383)(100,507)(140,063)
410,850410,251374,812799,599724,571630,753469,347411,737351,015(11,036)37,0004,793
Provisionforcreditlosses......74,44341,92333,52947,675107,87177,10445,78184,61415,50755,81083,13968,766

Amortizationofcoredepositand
otherintangibleassets.......
ŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠŠ
Depreciationandother
amortization...
.........276857757552628559
7,3395,9344,5883,7335,5065,342
Othernoninterestexpense......169,878158,042137,780219,471210,180191,785124,674103,12489,15126,25627,07045,892
Income(loss)beforetaxes......166,253209,429202,746531,901405,892361,305291,553218,065241,769(96,835)(78,715)(115,207)
Incometaxexpense(benefit).....67,68785,38782,686217,734166,459148,13688,46662,71177,478(58,269)(50,692)(67,142)
Netincome(loss)..
.........$
98,566$124,042$120,060$314,167$239,433$213,169$203,087$155,354$164,291$(38,566)$(28,023)$(48,065)
Averagetotalassets(inmillions)...$4,843$4,869$4,452$15,461$15,399$14,981$13,194$12,842$11,394$14,690$13,763$14,179
Capitalexpenditures(inmillions)..$1$1$2$3$Š$1$1$1$Š$Š$Š$Š
162M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
201020092008201020092008201020092008201020092008
ResidentialMortgageBankingRetailBankingAllOtherTotal
FortheYearsEndedDecember31,2010,2009and2008
Netinterestincome(a)........$71,599$78,865$66,051$839,828$878,520$830,022$50,967$(238,457)$(110,617)$2,267,526$2,055,748$1,939,
796Noninterestincome.
.........
195,540226,659171,774380,015372,821343,666168,917201,887216,5061,108,1001,048,106938,979
267,139305,524237,8251,219,8431,251,3411,173,688219,884(36,570)105,8893,375,6263,103,8542,878,775
Provisionforcreditlosses......49,11097,816104,995109,978130,50998,586(14,797)58,12813,513368,000604,000412,000

Amortizationofcoredepositand
otherintangibleassets.......ŠŠŠŠŠŠ58,10364,25566,64658,10364,25566,646
Depreciationandother
amortization...
.........
46,17151,55256,66631,35031,29928,52334,83830,89022,709124,259126,666119,144
Othernoninterestexpense......160,131185,829164,102698,540689,314624,834333,525416,083287,6621,732,4751,789,6421,541,206
Income(loss)beforetaxes......11,727(29,673)(87,938)379,975400,219421,745(191,785)(605,926)(284,641)1,092,789519,291739,779
Incometaxexpense(benefit).....587(16,629)(39,758)154,680162,957171,740(114,257)(270,793)(189,248)356,628139,400183,892
Netincome(loss)..
.........$
11,140$(13,044)$(48,180)$225,295$237,262$250,005$(77,528)$(335,133)$(95,393)$736,161$379,891$555,887
Averagetotalassets(inmillions)...$2,217$2,552$2,660$12,079$12,024$11,356$5,896$6,023$6,110$68,380$67,472$65,132
Capitalexpenditures(inmillions)..$1$Š$Š$33$39$38$31$18$31$70$59$72
(a)Netinterestincomeisthedifferencebetweenactualtaxable-equivalentinterestearnedonassetsandinterest
paidonliabilitiesbyasegmentandafundingcharge(credit)basedontheCompany™sinternalfundstransfer
pricingmethodology.Segmentsarechargedacosttofundanyassets(e.g.loans)andarepaidafundingcredit

foranyfundsprovided(e.g.deposits).Thetaxable-equivalentadjustmentaggregated$24,023,000in2010,
$21,829,000in2009and$21,861,000in2008andiseliminatedinﬁAllOtherﬂnetinterestincomeand
incometaxexpense(benefit).
TheBusinessBankingsegmentprovidesdeposit,lending,cashmanagementandotherfinancial
servicestosmallbusinessesandprofessionalsthroughtheCompany™sbankingofficenetworkandseveral
otherdeliverychannels,includingbusinessbankingcenters,telephonebanking,Internetbankingand

automatedtellermachines.TheCommercialBankingsegmentprovidesawiderangeofcreditproducts
andbankingservicestomiddle-marketandlargecommercialcustomers,mainlywithinthemarketsthe
Companyserves.Amongtheservicesprovidedbythissegmentarecommerciallendingandleasing,

lettersofcredit,depositproductsandcashmanagementservices.TheCommercialRealEstatesegment
providescreditserviceswhicharesecuredbyvarioustypesofmultifamilyresidentialandcommercialreal
estateanddepositservicestoitscustomers.Activitiesofthissegmentincludetheorigination,salesand

servicingofcommercialrealestateloans.TheDiscretionaryPortfoliosegmentincludessecurities,
residentialmortgageloansandotherassets;short-termandlong-termborrowedfunds;brokered
certificatesofdepositandinterestrateswapagreementsrelatedthereto;andCaymanIslandsbranch

deposits.Thissegmentalsoprovidesforeignexchangeservicestocustomers.TheResidentialMortgage
Bankingsegmentoriginatesandservicesresidentialmortgageloansforconsumersandsellssubstantially
allofthoseloansinthesecondarymarkettoinvestorsortotheDiscretionaryPortfoliosegment.The

segmentperiodicallypurchasesservicingrightstoloansthathavebeenoriginatedbyotherentities.This
segmentalsooriginatedloanstodevelopersofresidentialrealestateproperties.Residentialmortgage
loansheldforsaleareincludedintheResidentialMortgageBankingsegment.TheRetailBanking

segmentoffersavarietyofservicestoconsumersthroughseveraldeliverychannelsthatincludebanking
offices,automatedtellermachines,telephonebankingandInternetbanking.TheﬁAllOtherﬂcategory
includesotheroperatingactivitiesoftheCompanythatarenotdirectlyattributabletothereported

segments;thedifferencebetweentheprovisionforcreditlossesandthecalculatedprovisionallocatedto
thereportablesegments;goodwillandcoredepositandotherintangibleassetsresultingfromacquisitions
offinancialinstitutions;merger-relatedgainsandexpensesresultingfromacquisitions;thenetimpactof

theCompany™sinternalfundstransferpricingmethodology;eliminationsoftransactionsbetweenreport-

ablesegments;certainnonrecurringtransactions;theresidualeffectsofunallocatedsupportsystemsand
generalandadministrativeexpenses;andtheimpactofinterestrateriskmanagementstrategies.The
163M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
amountofintersegmentactivityeliminatedinarrivingatconsolidatedtotalswasincludedintheﬁAll
Otherﬂcategoryasfollows:
201020092008
YearEndedDecember31
(Inthousands)
Revenues..
.........................................
$(41,508)$(47,114)$(42,738)
Expenses..
.........................................
(15,527)(19,164)(19,198)
Incometaxes(benefit)..
...............................
(10,572)(11,373)(9,578)
Netincome(loss)
....................................
(15,409)(16,577)(13,962)
TheCompanyconductssubstantiallyallofitsoperationsintheUnitedStates.Thereareno
transactionswithasinglecustomerthatintheaggregateresultinrevenuesthatexceedtenpercentof
consolidatedtotalrevenues.
23.Regulatorymatters
PaymentofdividendsbyM&T™sbankingsubsidiariesisrestrictedbyvariouslegalandregulatory

limitations.DividendsfromanybankingsubsidiarytoM&Tarelimitedbytheamountofearningsofthe
bankingsubsidiaryinthecurrentyearandtheprecedingtwoyears.Forpurposesofthistest,at
December31,2010,approximately$1.4billionwasavailableforpaymentofdividendstoM&Tfrom

bankingsubsidiaries.
BankingregulationsprohibitextensionsofcreditbythesubsidiarybankstoM&Tunlessappropri-
atelysecuredbyassets.Securitiesofaffiliatesarenoteligibleascollateralforthispurpose.
Thebanksubsidiariesarerequiredtomaintainnoninterest-earningreservesagainstcertaindeposit
liabilities.DuringthemaintenanceperiodsthatincludedDecember31,2010and2009,cashanddue
frombanksincludedadailyaverageof$196,402,000and$162,952,000,respectively,forsuchpurpose.
Federalregulatorshaveadoptedcapitaladequacyguidelinesforbankholdingcompaniesand
banks.Failuretomeetminimumcapitalrequirementscanresultincertainmandatory,andpossibly
additionaldiscretionary,actionsbyregulatorsthat,ifundertaken,couldhaveamaterialeffectonthe
Company™sfinancialstatements.Underthecapitaladequacyguidelines,theso-calledﬁTier1capitalﬂand

ﬁTotalcapitalﬂasapercentageofrisk-weightedassetsandcertainoff-balancesheetfinancialinstruments
mustbeatleast4%and8%,respectively.Inadditiontotheserisk-basedmeasures,regulatorsalsorequire
bankinginstitutionsthatmeetcertainqualitativecriteriatomaintainaminimumﬁleverageﬂratioof

ﬁTier1capitalﬂtoaveragetotalassets,adjustedforgoodwillandcertainotheritems,ofatleast3%tobe
consideredadequatelycapitalized.AsofDecember31,2010,M&Tandeachofitsbankingsubsidiaries
exceededallapplicablecapitaladequacyrequirements.Tobeconsideredﬁwellcapitalized,ﬂunderthe

regulatoryframeworkforpromptcorrectiveaction,abankinginstitutionmustmaintainTier1risk-based
capital,totalrisk-basedcapitalandleverageratiosofatleast6%,10%and5%,respectively.
164M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
ThecapitalratiosandamountsoftheCompanyanditsbankingsubsidiariesasofDecember31,
2010and2009arepresentedbelow:
M&T(Consolidated)M&TBank
M&TBank,N.A.
(Dollarsinthousands)
December31,2010:
Tier1capital
Amount..
..........................................
$6,051,724$5,406,330$190,151
Ratio(a)...
..........................................
9.47%8.62%26.80%
Minimumrequiredamount(b).
..........................
2,555,2152,508,89728,386
Totalcapital
Amount..
..........................................
8,352,6437,686,799196,140
Ratio(a)...
..........................................
13.08%12.26%27.64%
Minimumrequiredamount(b).
..........................
5,110,4315,017,79556,772
Leverage
Amount..
..........................................
6,051,7245,406,330190,151
Ratio(c)...
..........................................
9.33%8.46%22.54%
Minimumrequiredamount(b).
..........................
1,946,3121,916,03325,307
December31,2009:

Tier1capital
Amount..
..........................................
$5,514,093$4,988,224$188,769
Ratio(a)...
..........................................
8.59%7.96%18.49%
Minimumrequiredamount(b).
..........................
2,567,3232,507,70040,846
Totalcapital
Amount..
..........................................
7,892,4557,342,191193,591
Ratio(a)...
..........................................
12.30%11.71%18.96%
Minimumrequiredamount(b).
..........................
5,134,6465,015,39981,692
Leverage
Amount..
..........................................
5,514,0934,988,224188,769
Ratio(c)...
..........................................
8.43%7.77%19.41%
Minimumrequiredamount(b).
..........................
1,961,2131,925,55829,179
(a)Theratioofcapitaltorisk-weightedassets,asdefinedbyregulation.
(b)Minimumamountofcapitaltobeconsideredadequatelycapitalized,asdefinedbyregulation.
(c)Theratioofcapitaltoaverageassets,asdefinedbyregulation.
24.RelationshipofM&TandAIB
AIBreceived26,700,000sharesofM&TcommonstockonApril1,2003asaresultofM&T™sacquisition
ofasubsidiaryofAIBonthatdate.InanefforttoraiseitscapitalpositiontomeetnewIrish
government-mandatedcapitalrequirements,AIBsoldthosesharesonNovember4,2010and,asaresult,

theprovisionsoftheAgreementandPlanofReorganizationbetweenM&TandAIBrelatedtoAIB™s
rightsasasubstantialshareholderinthecorporategovernanceofM&Tbecameinoperativeasofthat
date.25.RelationshipwithBayviewLendingGroupLLCandBayviewFinancialHoldings,L.P.
In2007,M&Tinvested$300milliontoacquirea20%minorityinterestinBayviewLendingGroupLLC
(ﬁBLGﬂ),aprivately-heldcommercialmortgagelender.M&TrecognizesincomeorlossfromBLGusing
theequitymethodofaccounting.Thecarryingvalueofthatinvestmentwas$220millionatDecember31,

2010.165M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
BayviewFinancialHoldings,L.P.(togetherwithitsaffiliates,ﬁBayviewFinancialﬂ),aprivately-held
specialtymortgagefinancecompany,isBLG™smajorityinvestor.Inadditiontotheircommoninvestment
inBLG,theCompanyandBayviewFinancialconductotherbusinessactivitieswitheachother.The

Companyhaspurchasedloanservicingrightsforsmall-balancecommercialmortgageloansfromBLG
andBayviewFinancialhavingoutstandingprincipalbalancesof$5.2billionand$5.5billionat
December31,2010and2009,respectively.Amountsrecordedascapitalizedservicingassetsforsuchloans

totaled$26millionatDecember31,2010and$40millionatDecember31,2009.Capitalizedservicing
rightsatDecember31,2010and2009alsoincluded$9millionand$17million,respectively,forservicing
rightsthatwerepurchasedfromBayviewFinancialrelatedtoresidentialmortgageloanswithoutstanding

principalbalancesof$3.6billionand$4.1billionatDecember31,2010and2009,respectively.Revenues
fromservicingresidentialandsmall-balancecommercialmortgageloanspurchasedfromBLGand
BayviewFinancialwere$46million,$50millionand$54millionduring2010,2009and2008,

respectively.M&TBankprovided$34millionofcreditfacilitiestoBayviewFinancialatDecember31,
2009,ofwhich$24millionwasoutstandingatthatdate.Thatcreditfacilityexpiredandwasrepaidin
fullduring2010.TherewasnosimilarcreditfacilityprovidedasofDecember31,2010.TheCompany

held$22millionand$25millionatDecember31,2010and2009,respectively,ofcollateralizedmortgage
obligationsinitsavailable-for-saleinvestmentsecuritiesportfoliothatweresecuritizedbyBayview
Financial.Inaddition,theCompanyheld$313millionand$352millionofsimilarinvestmentsecurities

initsheld-to-maturityportfolioatDecember31,2010andDecember31,2009,respectively.
26.Parentcompanyfinancialstatements

CondensedBalanceSheet
20102009
December31
(Inthousands)
AssetsCashinsubsidiarybank.
............................................$
1,784$1,455
Duefromconsolidatedbanksubsidiaries
Money-marketsavings.
............................................
481,340327,029
Currentincometaxreceivable
.......................................
2,6645,037
Other..
.......................................................Š55
Totalduefromconsolidatedbanksubsidiaries..
.......................
484,004332,121
Investmentsinconsolidatedsubsidiaries
Banks..
.......................................................
9,048,7038,559,692
Other..
.......................................................
30,97829,925
Investmentsinunconsolidatedsubsidiaries(note19).
.......................
34,25734,424
InvestmentinBayviewLendingGroupLLC...
............................
219,800245,568
Otherassets
......................................................
88,97693,506
Totalassets...
................................................
$9,908,502$9,296,691
LiabilitiesDuetoconsolidatedbanksubsidiaries..
.................................$20$Š
Accruedexpensesandotherliabilities..
.................................
73,28368,004
Long-termborrowings...
............................................
1,477,5041,475,780
Totalliabilities.
................................................
1,550,8071,543,784
Shareholders™equity
................................................
8,357,6957,752,907
Totalliabilitiesandshareholders™equity..
............................
$9,908,502$9,296,691
166M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
CondensedStatementofIncome
201020092008
YearEndedDecember31
(Inthousands,exceptpershare)
Income
Dividendsfromconsolidatedbanksubsidiaries
...................$
500,000$Š$Š
EquityinearningsofBayviewLendingGroupLLC..
..............
(25,768)(25,898)(37,453)
Other-than-temporaryimpairmentlosses....
...................
(11,993)ŠŠ
Otherincome.....
.......................................
6,55810,6702,985
Totalincome....
.......................................
468,797(15,228)(34,468)
ExpenseInterestonlong-termborrowings.....
........................
91,07393,331101,534
Otherexpense.....
.......................................
7,4475,4272,798
Totalexpense....
.......................................
98,52098,758104,332
Income(loss)beforeincometaxesandequityinundistributedincome
ofsubsidiaries...
.......................................
370,277(113,986)(138,800)
Incometaxcredits..
.......................................
48,41642,74051,085
Income(loss)beforeequityinundistributedincomeofsubsidiaries
......418,693(71,246)(87,715)
Equityinundistributedincomeofsubsidiaries
Netincomeofsubsidiaries
..................................
817,468451,137643,602
Less:dividendsreceived..
...................................
(500,000)ŠŠ
Equityinundistributedincomeofsubsidiaries
...................
317,468451,137643,602
Netincome
..............................................$
736,161$379,891$555,887
Netincomepercommonshare
Basic...
..............................................$
5.72$2.90$5.04
Diluted.
..............................................
5.692.895.01
167M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
CondensedStatementofCashFlows
201020092008
YearEndedDecember31
(Inthousands)
Cashflowsfromoperatingactivities
Netincome
..............................................$
736,161$379,891$555,887
Adjustmentstoreconcilenetincometonetcashprovidedbyoperating
activities
Equityinundistributedincomeofsubsidiaries...
..............
(317,468)(451,137)(643,602)
Provisionfordeferredincometaxes..
........................
2,23729116,653
Netchangeinaccruedincomeandexpense.
...................
43,56714,58946,884
Netcashprovided(used)byoperatingactivities..
..............
464,497(56,366)(24,178)
Cashflowsfrominvestingactivities
Proceedsfromsalesofinvestmentsecurities..
...................
2,591Š15,808
Proceedsfrommaturitiesofinvestmentsecurities...
..............
1,1506,60017,120
Purchasesofinvestmentsecurities.....
........................
(2,225)(1,855)(43,072)
Investmentinsubsidiary.
...................................Š
(120,000)Š
Proceedsfromrepaymentofadvancestosubsidiaries.
..............Š
200,000Š
Other,net.
..............................................
1,03315,088(8,790)
Netcashprovided(used)byinvestingactivities...
..............
2,54999,833(18,934)
Cashflowsfromfinancingactivities
Proceedsfromlong-termborrowings...
........................ŠŠ
350,010Paymentsonlong-termborrowings....
........................Š
(111,046)(20,661)
DividendspaidŠcommon
..................................
(335,303)(325,706)(308,501)
DividendspaidŠpreferred
..................................
(40,225)(31,946)Š
Proceedsfromsubsidiaryforissuanceofcommonstocktodefined
benefitpensionplan..
...................................Š
44,289Š
Proceedsfromissuanceofpreferredstockandwarrants
.............ŠŠ
600,000Other,net.
..............................................63,122
12,25513,184
Netcashprovided(used)byfinancingactivities..
..............
(312,406)(412,154)634,032
Netincrease(decrease)incashandcashequivalents.
..............
154,640(368,687)590,920
Cashandcashequivalentsatbeginningofyear
...................
328,484697,171106,251
Cashandcashequivalentsatendofyear
........................$
483,124$328,484$697,171
Supplementaldisclosureofcashflowinformation
Interestreceivedduringtheyear
..............................$
1,581$4,960$15,311
Interestpaidduringtheyear...
..............................
87,45692,24799,209
Incometaxesreceivedduringtheyear..
........................
50,88245,74562,501
168M&TBANKCORPORATIONANDSUBSIDIARIES
NotestoFinancialStatementsŠ(Continued)
Item9.
ChangesInandDisagreementsWithAccountantsonAccountingandFinancialDisclosure.
None.
Item9A.
ControlsandProcedures.
(a)Evaluationofdisclosurecontrolsandprocedures.Basedupontheirevaluationoftheeffective-
nessofM&T™sdisclosurecontrolsandprocedures(asdefinedinExchangeActrules13a-15(e)and
15d-15(e)),RobertG.Wilmers,ChairmanoftheBoardandChiefExecutiveOfficer,andRenéF.Jones,

ExecutiveVicePresidentandChiefFinancialOfficer,concludedthatM&T™sdisclosurecontrolsand
procedureswereeffectiveasofDecember31,2010.
(b)Management™sannualreportoninternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.Includedunderthe
headingﬁReportonInternalControlOverFinancialReportingﬂatItem8ofthisAnnualReporton
Form10-K.
(c)Attestationreportoftheregisteredpublicaccountingfirm.Includedundertheheading
ﬁReportofIndependentRegisteredPublicAccountingFirmﬂatItem8ofthisAnnualReporton
Form10-K.
(d)Changesininternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.M&Tregularlyassessestheadequacyof
itsinternalcontroloverfinancialreportingandenhancesitscontrolsinresponsetointernalcontrol
assessmentsandinternalandexternalauditandregulatoryrecommendations.Nochangesininternal
controloverfinancialreportinghavebeenidentifiedinconnectionwiththeevaluationofdisclosure

controlsandproceduresduringthequarterendedDecember31,2010thathavemateriallyaffected,orare
reasonablylikelytomateriallyaffect,M&T™sinternalcontroloverfinancialreporting.
Item9B.
OtherInformation.
None.
PARTIII
Item10.
Directors,ExecutiveOfficersandCorporateGovernance.
TheidentificationoftheRegistrant™sdirectorsisincorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁNOMINEES
FORDIRECTORﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2011AnnualMeeting
ofShareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch7,
2011.TheidentificationoftheRegistrant™sexecutiveofficersispresentedunderthecaptionﬁExecutive
OfficersoftheRegistrantﬂcontainedinPartIofthisAnnualReportonForm10-K.
DisclosureofcompliancewithSection16(a)oftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,asamended,
bytheRegistrant™sdirectorsandexecutiveofficers,andpersonswhoarethebeneficialownersofmore

than10%oftheRegistrant™scommonstock,isincorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁSection16(a)
BeneficialOwnershipReportingComplianceﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementfor
its2011AnnualMeetingofShareholderswhichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommis-

siononoraboutMarch7,2011.
TheotherinformationrequiredbyItem10isincorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionsﬁCORPO-
RATEGOVERNANCEOFM&TBANKCORPORATION,ﬂﬁBOARDOFDIRECTORS,COMMITTEES

OFTHEBOARDANDATTENDANCEﬂandﬁCODESOFBUSINESSCONDUCTANDETHICSﬂ
containedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2011AnnualMeetingofShareholders,
whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch7,2011.
Item11.
ExecutiveCompensation.
IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁCOMPENSATIONOFEXECUTIVEOFFICERSANDDIREC-
TORSﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2011AnnualMeetingof
Shareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch7,

2011.169Item12.
SecurityOwnershipofCertainBeneficialOwnersandManagementandRelatedShareholder
Matters.
IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionsﬁPRINCIPALBENEFICIALOWNERSOFSHARESﬂand
ﬁSTOCKOWNERSHIPBYDIRECTORSANDEXECUTIVEOFFICERSﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™s

definitiveProxyStatementforits2011AnnualMeetingofShareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththe
SecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch7,2011.
TheinformationrequiredbythisitemconcerningEquityCompensationPlaninformationis
incorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁCOMPENSATIONOFEXECUTIVEOFFICERSANDDIREC-
TORSﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2011AnnualMeetingof
Shareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch7,

2011.Item13.
CertainRelationshipsandRelatedTransactions,andDirectorIndependence.
IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionsﬁTRANSACTIONSWITHDIRECTORSANDEXECUTIVE
OFFICERSﬂandﬁBOARDOFDIRECTORS,COMMITTEESOFTHEBOARDANDATTENDANCEﬂ
containedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits2011AnnualMeetingofShareholders,

whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommissiononoraboutMarch7,2011.
Item14.
PrincipalAccountingFeesandServices.
IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁPROPOSALTORATIFYTHEAPPOINTMENTOF
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERSLLPASTHEINDEPENDENTREGISTEREDPUBLICACCOUNTING
FIRMOFM&TBANKCORPORATIONﬂcontainedintheRegistrant™sdefinitiveProxyStatementforits

2011AnnualMeetingofShareholders,whichwillbefiledwiththeSecuritiesandExchangeCommission
onoraboutMarch7,2011.
PARTIV
Item15.
ExhibitsandFinancialStatementSchedules.
(a)FinancialstatementsandfinancialstatementschedulesfiledaspartofthisAnnualReporton
Form10-K.SeePartII,Item8.ﬁFinancialStatementsandSupplementaryData.ﬂFinancialstatement
schedulesarenotrequiredorareinapplicable,andthereforehavebeenomitted.
(b)ExhibitsrequiredbyItem601ofRegulationS-K.TheexhibitslistedontheExhibitIndexof
thisAnnualReportonForm10-Khavebeenpreviouslyfiled,arefiledherewithorareincorporated
hereinbyreferencetootherfilings.
(c)Additionalfinancialstatementschedules.None.
170Signatures
PursuanttotherequirementsofSection13or15(d)oftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,the
Registranthasdulycausedthisreporttobesignedonitsbehalfbytheundersigned,thereuntoduly
authorized,onthe18thdayofFebruary,2011.
M&TBANKCORPORATION
By:/s/R
OBERT
G.W
ILMERSRobertG.Wilmers
ChairmanoftheBoardand
ChiefExecutiveOfficer
PursuanttotherequirementsoftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934,thisreporthasbeensigned
belowbythefollowingpersonsonbehalfoftheRegistrantandinthecapacitiesandonthedates
indicated.SignatureTitleDate
PrincipalExecutiveOfficer:
/s/R
OBERT
G.W
ILMERSRobertG.Wilmers
ChairmanoftheBoardand
ChiefExecutiveOfficer
February18,2011
PrincipalFinancialOfficer:
/s/R
ENÉF.J
ONESRenéF.Jones
ExecutiveVicePresidentand
ChiefFinancialOfficer
February18,2011
PrincipalAccountingOfficer:
/s/M
ICHAELR.S
PYCHALA
MichaelR.Spychala
SeniorVicePresidentand
ControllerFebruary18,2011
Amajorityoftheboardofdirectors:
/s/B
RENTD.B
AIRDBrentD.Baird
February18,2011
/s/R
OBERT
J.B
ENNETTRobertJ.Bennett
February18,2011
/s/C.A
NGELABONTEMPOC.AngelaBontempo
February18,2011
RobertT.Brady
171/s/M
ICHAELD.B
UCKLEYMichaelD.Buckley
February18,2011
/s/T.J
EFFERSONCUNNINGHAMIIIT.JeffersonCunninghamIII
February18,2011
/s/M
ARKJ.C
ZARNECKIMarkJ.Czarnecki
February18,2011
/s/G
ARY
N.G
EISELGaryN.Geisel
February18,2011
/s/P
ATRICK
W.E.H
ODGSONPatrickW.E.Hodgson
February18,2011
/s/R
ICHARDG.K
INGRichardG.King
February18,2011
/s/J
ORGE
G.P
EREIRAJorgeG.Pereira
February18,2011
/s/M
ICHAELP.P
INTO
MichaelP.Pinto
February18,2011
MelindaR.Rich
/s/R
OBERT
E.S
ADLER,JR.RobertE.Sadler,Jr.
February18,2011
/s/H
ERBERT
L.W
ASHINGTON
HerbertL.Washington
February18,2011
/s/R
OBERT
G.W
ILMERSRobertG.Wilmers
February18,2011
172EXHIBITINDEX
3.1RestatedCertificateofIncorporationofM&TBankCorporationdatedNovember18,2010.
IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit3.1totheForm8-KdatedNovember19,2010(File

No.1-9861).
3.2AmendedandRestatedBylawsofM&TBankCorporation,effectiveNovember16,2010.
IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit3.2totheForm8-KdatedNovember19,2010(File
No.1-9861).
4.1Therearenoinstrumentswithrespecttolong-termdebtofM&TBankCorporationandits
subsidiariesthatinvolvesecuritiesauthorizedundertheinstrumentinanamountexceeding

10percentofthetotalassetsofM&TBankCorporationanditssubsidiariesonaconsolidated

basis.M&TBankCorporationagreestoprovidetheSECwithacopyofinstrumentsdefiningthe

rightsofholdersoflong-termdebtofM&TBankCorporationanditssubsidiariesonrequest.
4.2WarranttopurchasesharesofM&TBankCorporationCommonStockdatedDecember23,
2008.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit4.1totheForm8-KdatedDecember19,2008(File

No.1-9861).
10.1CreditAgreement,datedasofDecember15,2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationand
Citibank,N.A.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.1totheForm10-Kfortheyearended

December31,2000(FileNo.1-9861).
10.2AmendmentNo.1,datedDecember9,2003,totheCreditAgreement,datedasofDecember15,
2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationandCitibank,N.A.Incorporatedbyreferenceto

Exhibit10.3totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2003(FileNo.1-9861).
10.3AmendmentNo.2,datedJanuary30,2009,totheCreditAgreement,datedasofDecember15,
2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationandCitibank,N.A.Incorporatedbyreferenceto

Exhibit10.3totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2008(FileNo.1-9861).
10.4AmendmentNo.3,datedDecember4,2009,totheCreditAgreement,datedasofDecember15,
2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationandCitibank,N.A.Incorporatedbyreferenceto

Exhibit10.4totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2009(FileNo.1-9861).
10.5AmendmentNo.4,datedDecember3,2010,totheCreditAgreement,datedasofDecember15,
2000,betweenM&TBankCorporationandCitibank,N.A.Filedherewith.
10.6M&TBankCorporation1983StockOptionPlanaslastamendedonApril20,1999.
IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.3totheForm10-QforthequarterendedMarch31,
1999(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.7M&TBankCorporation2001StockOptionPlan.IncorporatedbyreferencetoAppendixAto
theProxyStatementofM&TBankCorporationdatedMarch6,2001(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.8M&TBankCorporationAnnualExecutiveIncentivePlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
ExhibitNo.10.3totheForm10-QforthequarterendedJune30,1998(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.9SupplementalDeferredCompensationAgreementbetweenManufacturersandTraders
TrustCompanyandBrianE.HickeydatedasofJuly21,1994.Incorporatedbyreferenceto

Exhibit10.8totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,1995(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.10Firstamendment,datedasofAugust1,2006,totheSupplementalDeferredCompensation
AgreementbetweenManufacturersandTradersTrustCompanyandBrianE.Hickeydatedasof

July21,1994.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.2totheForm10-Qforthequarterended

September30,2006(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.11SupplementalDeferredCompensationAgreement,datedJuly17,1989,betweenTheEastNew
YorkSavingsBankandAtwoodCollins,III.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.11tothe

Form10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,1991(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.12Firstamendment,datedasofAugust1,2006,totheSupplementalDeferredCompensation
Agreement,datedJuly17,1989,betweenTheEastNewYorkSavingsBankandAtwood

Collins,III.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.3totheForm10-Qforthequarterended

September30,2006(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.13M&TBankCorporationSupplementalPensionPlan,asamendedandrestated.Incorporatedby
referencetoExhibit10.1totheForm8-KdatedNovember15,2005(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.14M&TBankCorporationSupplementalRetirementSavingsPlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.2totheForm8-KdatedNovember15,2005(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.15M&TBankCorporationDeferredBonusPlan,asamendedandrestated.Incorporatedby
referencetoExhibit10.12totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2004(File
No.1-9861).*
10.16M&TBankCorporation2008Directors™StockPlan.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit4.1to
theFormS-8datedApril7,2008(FileNo.333-150122).*
17310.17Restated1987StockOptionandAppreciationRightsPlanofONBANCorp,Inc.Incorporatedby
referencetoExhibit10.11totheForm10-QforthequarterendedJune30,1998(File

No.1-9861).*
10.181992ONBANCorpDirectors™StockOptionPlan.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.12to
theForm10-QforthequarterendedJune30,1998(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.19KeystoneFinancial,Inc.1997StockIncentivePlan,asamendedNovember19,1998.Incorporated
byreferencetoExhibit10.16totheForm10-KofKeystoneFinancial,Inc.fortheyearended

December31,1998(FileNo.000-11460).*
10.20KeystoneFinancial,Inc.1992StockIncentivePlan.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.10to
theForm10-KofKeystoneFinancial,Inc.fortheyearendedDecember31,1997(File

No.000-11460).*
10.21KeystoneFinancial,Inc.1988StockIncentivePlan.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.2to
theForm10-KofKeystoneFinancial,Inc.fortheyearendedDecember31,1998(File

No.000-11460).*
10.22KeystoneFinancial,Inc.1995Non-EmployeeDirectors™StockOptionPlan.Incorporatedby
referencetoExhibitBtotheProxyStatementofKeystoneFinancial,Inc.datedApril7,1995

(FileNo.000-11460).*
10.23KeystoneFinancial,Inc.1990Non-EmployeeDirectors™StockOptionPlan,asamended.
IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.9totheForm10-KofKeystoneFinancial,Inc.forthe

yearendedDecember31,1998(FileNo.000-11460).*
10.24KeystoneFinancial,Inc.1992DirectorFeePlan.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.11tothe
Form10-KofKeystoneFinancial,Inc.fortheyearendedDecember31,1999(File

No.000-11460).*
10.25FinancialTrustCorpNon-EmployeeDirectorStockOptionPlanof1994.Incorporatedby
referencetoExhibit4.1totheRegistrationStatementonFormS-8ofFinancialTrustCorp,dated

March26,1996(FileNo.333-01989).*
10.26ProgressiveBank,Inc.1993Non-QualifiedStockOptionPlanforDirectors.Incorporatedby
referencetoExhibit10.9totheProgressiveBank,Inc.Form10-Kfortheyearended

December31,1993(FileNo.0-15025).*
10.27PremierNationalBancorp,Inc.1995IncentiveStockPlan(asamendedandrestatedeffective
May13,1999).IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.4tothePremierNationalBancorp,Inc.

Form10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,1999(FileNo.1-13213).*
10.28M&TBankCorporationEmployeeStockPurchasePlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
Exhibit10.28totheForm10-QforthequarterendedSeptember30,2002(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.29M&TBankCorporation2005IncentiveCompensationPlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
AppendixAtotheProxyStatementofM&TBankCorporationdatedMarch4,2005(File

No.1-9861).*
10.30M&TBankCorporation2009EquityIncentiveCompensationPlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
AppendixAtotheProxyStatementofM&TBankCorporationdatedMarch6,2009(File
No.1-9861).*
10.31M&TBankCorporationEmployeeSeverancePlan.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.2to
theForm10-QforthequarterendedMarch31,2005(FileNo.1-9861).*
10.32ProvidentBanksharesCorporationAmendedandRestatedStockOptionPlan.Incorporatedby
referencetoExhibit4.1totheRegistrationStatementonFormS-8datedJune5,2009(File

No.333-159795).*
10.33ProvidentBanksharesCorporation2004EquityCompensationPlan.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
Exhibit4.2totheRegistrationStatementonFormS-8datedJune5,2009(File

No.333-159795).*
10.34SouthernFinancialBancorp,Inc.1993StockOptionandIncentivePlan(asAmendedand
Restatedin2001).IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit4.3toPost-EffectiveAmendmentNo.1

totheRegistrationStatementonFormS-8datedJuly24,2009(FileNo.333-159795).*
10.35LetterAgreementincludingtheSecuritiesPurchaseAgreementŠStandardTermsincorporated
therein,betweenM&TBankCorporationandtheU.S.DepartmentofTreasury,dated

December23,2008.IncorporatedbyreferencetoExhibit10.1totheForm8-Kdated

December19,2008(FileNo.1-9861).
11.1Statementre:ComputationofEarningsPerCommonShare.Incorporatedbyreferenceto
note14ofNotestoFinancialStatementsfiledherewithinPartII,Item8,ﬁFinancialStatements

andSupplementaryData.ﬂ
17412.1RatioofEarningstoFixedCharges.Filedherewith.
14.1M&TBankCorporationCodeofEthicsforCEOandSeniorFinancialOfficers.Incorporatedby
referencetoExhibit14.1totheForm10-KfortheyearendedDecember31,2003(File

No.1-9861).
21.1SubsidiariesoftheRegistrant.IncorporatedbyreferencetothecaptionﬁSubsidiariesﬂcontained
inPartI,Item1hereof.
23.1ConsentofPricewaterhouseCoopersLLPre:RegistrationStatementNos.333-57330,333-63660,
33-12207,33-58500,33-63917,333-43171,333-43175,333-63985,333-97031,33-32044,

333-16077,333-84384,333-127406,333-150122,333-164015,333-163992,333-160769,

333-159795,333-170740and333-155759.Filedherewith.
31.1CertificationofChiefExecutiveOfficerunderSection302oftheSarbanes-OxleyActof2002.
Filedherewith.
31.2CertificationofChiefFinancialOfficerunderSection302oftheSarbanes-OxleyActof2002.
Filedherewith.
32.1CertificationofChiefExecutiveOfficerunder18U.S.C.§1350pursuanttoSection906ofthe
Sarbanes-OxleyActof2002.Filedherewith.
32.2CertificationofChiefFinancialOfficerunder18U.S.C.§1350pursuanttoSection906ofthe
Sarbanes-OxleyActof2002.Filedherewith.
99.1CertificationofChiefExecutiveOfficerunderEESA§111(b)(4).Filedherewith.

99.2CertificationofChiefFinancialOfficerunderEESA§111(b)(4).Filedherewith.

99.3ReplacementCapitalCovenantofM&TBankCorporationdatedJanuary31,2008.Incorporated
byreferencetoExhibit99.1totheForm8-KdatedJanuary31,2008(FileNo.1-9861).
101.INS**XBRLInstanceDocument.

101.SCH**XBRLTaxonomyExtensionSchema.

101.CAL**XBRLTaxonomyExtensionCalculationLinkbase.

101.LAB**XBRLTaxonomyExtensionLabelLinkbase.

101.PRE**XBRLTaxonomyExtensionPresentationLinkbase.

101.DEF**XBRLTaxonomyDefinitionLinkbase.
*Managementcontractorcompensatoryplanorarrangement.
**AsprovidedinRule406TofRegulationS-T,thisinformationisfurnishedandnotfiledforpurposesof
Sections11and12oftheSecuritiesActof1933andSection18oftheSecuritiesExchangeActof1934.
175 A plan is available to common shareholders whereby they may invest their dividends and
   
voluntary cash payments in additional shares of M&T Bank Corporation™s common stock.
     
Requests for information about the Dividend Reinvestment Plan and questions about stock 
certi˜cates or dividend checks should be addressed to M&T Bank Corporation™s transfer 

agent, registrar and dividend disbursing agent:
 
 Registrar and Transfer Company
 10 Commerce Drive  
 Cranford, NJ
 07016-3572 800-368-5948
 E-mail address: info
@rtco.com
 Internet address: www.rtco.com
 
  Questions on other matters and requests for additional copies of this publication or annual 
 or quarterly reports ˜led with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission  
(SEC Forms 10-K and 10-Q), which are available at no charge, may be directed to:
 
 M&T Bank Corporation
 Shareholder Relations Department
 One M&T Plaza, 13th Floor
 Bu˚alo, NY
 14203-2399 716-842-5138
 E-mail address: ir
@mtb.com
   www.mtb.com
 
 

  M&T Bank Corporation™s common stock is traded under the symbol MTB on the 
 
   
New York Stock Exchange (ﬁNYSEﬂ). 

100
%SEC 10
-K









